-

~~'~&~t 

. 1!1--­
IIU·1992 


server ~· 
IISQUICINTENNIAL 
Samt Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 13 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Dorms split over 'safe havens' for homosexuals 
By PETER LOFTUS has decided not to make a Safe Haven resolution: -council last week, and it was Haven" resolution, Swize said Assistant News Editor Haven declaration and Lewis A dormitory would affirm "the determined that there was not a "stating a statement Is not go­Hall did not include the memo rights of its gay residents to be need to adopt such a resolution. ing to change anything." 
One dorm has already in its hall council meeting yes­welcome and comfortable However, the council decided, Gude said she was not acting decided to adopt a resolution terday. where they live. It therefore "if it would be something that "unilaterally" on the issue, but seeking support for designates itself a Safe Haven would help, that we would that she sensed most Farley homosexuals at Notre Dame, Most hall presidents con­so that its gay residents might proba.bly go through with the residents would feel the same while two dorms have decided tacted for this story said they be able to live openly (should resolution." way. against it. would consider the memo in they so choose) and with lesS' Jennifer Swize, president of 
The one-page memo was is­upcoming hall council meetings. fear in their lives." Farley Hall, consulted Farley's "As far as strategy goes, (the sued to hall presidents by the rectress, Sister Mary Gude, Safe Haven resolution) Is not leader of the underground NO Michael Vore, a graduate A dormitory would oppose about the memo after the HPC the best way," said Gude. homosexual support group on student in the English Depart­"discrimination of any of its meeting yesterday. According to The memo was not included August 26. It asks for hall ment and co-chairperson of residents based on their sexual Swize, Gude decided that a on the agenda for the Lewis presidents to consider a resolu­Gays and Lesbians at NO/Saint orientation." resolution "was not a very pro­Hall council meeting Tuesday. tion declaring their respective Mary's (GLND/SMC), sent the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) ductive means of .doing any­dorms as "Safe Havens" for memo "as one student to an­met Tuesday in Breen-Philips thing about it in the dorms." Molly O'Neill, president of homosexual studenlo;. other," because his group, Hall and distributed a copy of Lewis, said she did not feel that 
which has not received official the memo to those present. Swize said she was not neces­Lewis's hall council was obli­
The Siegfried Hall Councll recognition by the University, is Charlie James, HPC co-chair­sarily opposed to support for gated to address the memo be­passed the resolution by unan­prohibited from issuing memos person, suggested each presi­homosexuals, but that open fo­cause Vore specifically states imous consent late yesterday, with the group's letterhead. dent "read it and do whatever rums within Farley about ho­that the memo is from one stu­according to Hall President Amy you want with it." mosexual issues would not be dent to another . 
•
Llsterman. Vore, in the memo, offered well-attended by Farley resi­
see DORMS I page 4 

The rectress of Farley Hall the following as a model Safe Listerman consulted her hall dents. Regarding the "Safe 
SMC student assaulted; security issues warning 
The student refused medical By MONICA YANT treatment. 
The victim described her at­
News Editor 
tacker as a white male, approx­imately six feet tall and 165 lbs. 
Saint Mary's College security He had brown wavy hair of chin has Issued a crime alert after length and was wearing whitereceiving a report of an aggra­shorts and a light gray t-shirt,vated assault Monday evening, according to Brett McLaughlin,according to Hlchard Chlebek, director of Saint Mary's Officedirector of Security. 
of Public Information. The victim was attacked at 
The attacker remains at largeapproximately 8:15 p.m. on the 
after a search of the Saint
walkway between McCandless Mary's campus proved negative. 
Hall and the Cushwa-Leighton Chlebek said security is notLibrary, an area Chlebek de­ruling out the possibility thatscribed as "well-traveled and the attack was sexually moti­adequately lit." 
vated.
Tho victim alleged that she was thrown to the ground by a 
The investigation is being
college-age man carrying a ra­"handled by Saint Mary's Secu­zor blade. Although her skirt 
was slashed, she was able to rity. The St. Joseph County Po­flee with only superficial In­lice were also notified of the in­cident. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
juries to her legs, according to 
Worth the wait 
the crime alert that was placed Anyone with information 
In every student's mailbox yes­about the incident should con­
NO juniors (left to right) Loan Tong, Tim Sullivan and Ellen Sommerlad admire each other's class rings,
terday. tact security at 284-5000. 
Tuesday. Many juniors have eagerly waited two years for the rings, which arrived this Monday. 

Hesburgh nominated for council . Aquino urges Senate to 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
served as an advocate fnr News Writer peace. In the service of three 

renew U.S. base contract 
popes, he was Vatican City's 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -delivery truck, police said. 
Heverend Theodore lies­representative to the Interna­burgh, president emeritus of tional Atomic Energy Agency in President Corazon Aquino led The march followed a rally in the University of Notre Dame, Vienna from 1956-1970. In this tens of thousands of people which Aquino accused senators 
Tuesday on a march to the Se­of betraying her although shehas been nominated by Presi­position, Hesburgh gained nate, where she urged lawmak­had helped them win electiondent Bush to serve on the board knowledge of the nature and ers to let citizens decide in 1987. 
of directors of the United States uses of atomic energy and be­whether U.S. forces can stay for The crowd was estimated atInstitute of Peace. came a determined opponent of 10 more years. 50,000 to 100,000, far short ofThe United States Institute of nuclear armaments. 
But senators said Aquino the 1 million her administrationPeace, based In Washington, During the 1980s, Hesburgh failed to sway opponents of an predicted would show up to
D.C., was created by Congress took part in a private initiative in 1984. u It is the one agency to unite internationally known agreement under which Wash­demonstrate popular support
ington would return Clark Air for the agreement. 
In the government that is sup­scientists and world religious Base next year but keep Subic Sen. Ernesto Maceda, whoposed to promote peace in ev­leaders in condemning nuclear 
Bay naval base for another
ery way possible," said lies­Rev. Theodore Hesburgh weaponry. was elected on the Aquino
decade, in return for $203 mil­ticket, said the president "tried burgh. Soon after this meeting, Hes­lion in annual aid. very hard" during the rally toThe board of directors of the burgh helped organize the
veloping world," Hesburgh The current lease expires 
recapture the spirit of the 1986Institute consists of 15 mem­1982 meeting in Vatican City
said. "We can't have peace next Monday. In a preliminary uprising that toppled the late
bers. If llesburgh's nomination where top scientists from
without justice," he added. ballot, the Senate voted 12-11 President Ferdinand Marcos
Is approved by the Senate around the world called for the
Hesburgh stated that "80
committee hearings in October, elimination of nuclear Monday to reject the new and propelled her to the presi­
percent of the world is getting agreement, saying the longtime 
dency.
his term on the board will begin weapons. Subsequently,
along on 20 percent of the U.S. military presence has in­"Unfortunately, after five
soon. Hesburgh brought leaders of
world's resources. Until this is fringed on the country's 
years of hardship due to herIf approved, Hesburgh in­six different faith traditions
resolved, there will continue to sovereignty. own incompetence, the spirit of 
tends to activate many of his who added their endorsement
be uprisings. Economic justice A small bomb exploded in 
1991 is no longer listening,"Ideas on the board. "We're in to the scientists' request for
is at the base of human front of the Senate building Maceda said. 
the Idea business," said lies-disarmament.
rights." while Aquino was inside. Police Aquino later marched
burgh. . The timing of the nomination 
uThe country should cut nu­As Notre Dame's president said four men and a woman through a driving thunderstorm from 1952 to 1987, Hesburgh were injured. The device was
clear arms down to zero and we 
has throughout his career see HESBURGH I page 8 concealed inside the bed of a
s~ould do mor~ for tb.e de-see BASES I page 4 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Budget crisis will hurt ND education 
Welcome Back to Notre------­
Dame! 
Instead of receiving a warm welcome upon arrival at campus, students are greeted with a plethora of fees. 
My first week at col~ege consiste~ of Colleen Gannon 
paymg these fees. First, I . . 
paid the $35 off-campus Busmess Ed1tor parking fee. A reasonable fee for the privilege of parking outside the 
Alumni-Senior Bar, a distance comparable to walking from my front door at Turtle Creek. 
Next, I paid the $15 registration fee at Career and Placement Services. Another reasonable fee considering the great job of­fers I, as an American Studies, will soon re­ceive. 
Finally, I purchased books and packets at
~ 
I 
the Bookstore and the Copy Shop. I think that 
i 
says enough on this subject. 
I 
Unfortunately, while continuously deplet­
I 
ing students' summer savings, the University does not seem to want to reinvest this money in our education. 
Despite my fees and my tuition payment (and countless donations!), some professors claim a budget crisis exists in the College of Arts and Letters. The idea of a--budget crisis at Notre Dame greatly disturbs me because it can reduce the quality of our education. 
For example, one department informed my professor that funding was not available for a two dollar videotape rental. 
Although this professor paid for the rental herself, it is not illogical to think that many other professors will not be as willing to dip into their own pockets. • 
MorP. ohvious effects of a budget crisis may soon be seen at Notre Dame. In an attempt to minimize costs, the University could cut back on faculty while class sizes increase. 
From lack of outside materials in the classroom to larger class sizes, the quality of undergraduate education will slowly erode. 
The university must find funds to put an end to the so-called "budget crisis. n 
They could possibly find money in un­tapped campus resources. Suggestions in­clude placing parking meters in all campus parking areas and charging hourly admission to dormitories' 24 hour lounges after parietals. 
The University-must use all their resources to prevent any decline in the quality of our undergraduate education. 
The most important long-term investment the university can make does not include building new signs or supplying the staff with sesquicentennial pins, but is in its students. 
After all, the quality 9f education, not the campus appearance, makes Notre Dame one of the rmest universities in the country. 
An end to the budget crisis and proper funding will allow the educational level at Notre Dame to continue to rise rather than begin to falter. 
If things look bleak financially and your pockets have been drained by fees, cheer up my fellow students. No matter how bad things seem or how deep the recession, you can always get FREE popcorn at the Commons! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Sports Production Dave McMahon Lisa Bourdon 
Angie Bates News Meredith McCullough Lab Tech David Kinney David Lee Alicia Reale 
Accent Scoreboard Paige Smoron Rene Ferran Pat Moran 
Art Masterpieces Graphics Jake Frost Brendan..:..R.:.::e~g~:::a:.:.n______::L::;is::,::a:..,:S:::,:c:::,h~m~itt~...;,_ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rig,hts are reserved. , , 
-tlf/1 tt,. ~ (tlf,. .. 
FORECAST: Mostly sunny to­day but cooler. Highs will be in the higher 70s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver Detrok Honolulu Houston 
Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Mlam Beach Moscow New York Paris Philadelphia Rome St. Louis San F ranclsco Seattle South Bend 
Td<yo ·t Washington. D.C 
H  L  
81  61  
85  68  
68  46  
68  81  
94  72  
92  72  
79  63  
79  73  
89  76  
91  72  
90  68  
77  57  
74  62  
93  64  
84  71  
54  41  
84  68  
81  54  
90  66  
82  59  
94  78  
63  56  
74  53  
83  67  
81  75  
87  67  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Ats~ran bomb blast kills two 
• 
FRKHAM, Afghanistan -A bomb exploded at a bus stop in this border town Tuesday, killing at least two Afghans and wounding 16, witnesses said. The bomb that exploded Tuesday was hidden in a parked bus that was to take passengers from the border with Pakistan to towns throughout eastern Nangahar Province, said witnesses speaking on condition of anonymity. The area is largely controlled by the U.S.-backed guerrillas trying to topple the communist-style government in Kabul. No one claimed responsibility, but the guerrillas in the past have blamed such explosions on KHAD, the Afghan secret service. 

•r ONTO -Canada's huge public employees' strike entered its second day today, after angry picketers pelted Minister Brian Mulroney's limousine tomato~s and some workers refused cross picket lines. The first walkout by Public Service Alliance of Canada Monday, wreaking havoc with travel plans, grain shipments and other operations as the largest union dug in for a long dispute. Eligible to strike were 110,000 workers including clerks, weather forecasters, dock hands, grain inspectors and a wide range of other public servants. Essential services were kept in operation. 


OF INTEREST 
• 
Auditions for "A Midsummer Night's Dream" will take place today from 6:30-9 p.m. at Theodores. 

• 
Saint Mary's juniors are invited to junior placement kickoff tonight at 7 p.m. in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall. There will be information on the Career Resource Center, the Career Exploration Center, the Liberal Arts Internship Programs. and job market realities. Contact Jeff Roberts at 284-4565, for further information. 

• 
Pax Christl, the Catholic peace movement will hold its first meeting of the year tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns chapel. All are welcome. 


• The undergraduate schools committee training 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September~ o 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 166.42 Million 217.17 v 1.91 S&P COMPOSITE 396.64 it 3.58 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,011.63 .. 3.13 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD .oft $ 2.10 to $349.1 0/oz. SU..VER i} 10.5¢ to $3.69oz. 

~ ~, ~ 1/f .. -... --" fl # # •••• .; -~ # ... ~ .. " ' : ·~ f ·' •.., • j,f: ._ .. ­
. . .. . -. -. -. . . ­
~ 
• 


NATIONAL 

•WASHING ON -The 18-year-old son of former Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young claims several District of Columbia police officers beat him and broke his an­kle.Andrew Young III said Tuesday that officers "snatched me out of the car and threw me on the ground and proceeded to beat me." Young, a freshman at Howard University, said he was stopped by police early Sunday morning. He said he was not speeding and did not resist officers. Police officials refused to discuss the matter, but said no complaints had been filed against officers. 
. CAMPUS 

NO receives two gifts
.NOTRE DAME ND has received a hoo,ooo gift from Robert B.Nadeau, Jr. to establish a scholarship fund in honor of his father for undergraduate students. Nadeau graduated from Notre l).ame in 1972. The Robert 
B. Nadeau Scholarships will be awarded annually to outstanding undergraduates in the University's College of Business Administration and in need of financial ass~nce. Further information may be obtained from the Office of Financial Aid or by calling (219) 239-6436. ND has also received a $25,000 gift from the Notre Dame Credit Union on the occasion of the Sesquicentennial of the University and the 50th anniversary of NDCU. 
meeting is tonight at 8 p.m. in Haggar Hall Auditorium . New members must attend one of these sessions. Returning members stop by Wednesday between 8:30 ­
9:30 p.m. to pick up new information outside of Haggar Auditorium. 
• 
Any student interested in being a news writer for The Observer should attend a meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. This includes those students who signed up at Activities Night or any other frrst-time writers. Direct questions to Monica Yant, 239­5303. 

• 
Campus bands interested in concerts on the quad falVspring please register at S.U.B. office this week for no cost. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1777: Forces under Gen. George Washington suffered defeat at the hands of the British in the Battle of Brandywine near Wilmington, Del. 

• 
In 1885: Author D.H. Lawrence was born in Eastwood, England. 

•In 
1971: 20 years ago, former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev died of a heart attack at the age of 77. 

• 
In 1978: Georgi Markov, a Bulgarian defector, died at a British hospital four days after he was stabbed by a man wielding a poisoned umbrella tip. 

• 
In 1985: Pete Rose of the Cincinnati Reds cracked career hit .number 4,192 off Eric Show of the San Diego Padres, eclipsing the record held by ,Ty,Cot:?~-.. , , , _. , , , _, , • , , , , , 


• ~ •o-o •••• ; ";. .. ,;. I";. t:,.-•-..;. L..;. 
•;. ··-.II-­
, , , 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Wednesday, September 11, 1991 page·3 


Sesquicentennial discussed by HPC 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's sesquicen­tennial celebration, Weekend Wheels, and the Smoking Task Force dominated a full agenda Tuesday night at the Hall Presidents Council (HPC} meeting. 
Kristin McCarthy from the Sesquicentennial Committee announced the schedule of events for Sunday, Sept. 15 that will officially open Notre Dame's sesquicenten­nial celebration. 
Mass will be offered in the Joyce ACC at 5 p.m., featur­Ing a short video presenta­tion on the founding of the University. Immediately fol­lowing the mass there will be a picnic for all students, faculty, and starr on Carter Field. The committee promises a carnival type at­mosphere, including games for both little and big kids. 
The finale of the evening will be a fireworks show marking the actual begin­ning of NO's I 50th anniver­sary. 
HPC co-chair Charlie James discussed possible changes in Weekend Wheels, an JIPC sponsored transportation service. Last year, HPC used yellow school buses at a cost of $150 per weekend, $4200 per year. IIPC budgeted $4200 again this year for the service, but according to James, "Through problems with Insurance and liabllity, [Weekend Wheels) can no longer use a yellow school bus." 
James said HPC is looking into a van service which would be comparable In cost to previous years. If nothing can be worked out, however, HPC is left with few options from which to choose. 
The United Limo Company carries the necessary Insurance and could provide the service, but at a cost of $316 per weekend, $8400 per year. This would effectively wipe out one-third of HPC's budget. 
The only other option mentioned by James was the vans at the Center for Social Concerns. HPC could use the vans for virtually nothing, but would have to provide certified drivers. 
Finally, Melissa Mong from the Smoking Task Force (STF} announced a possible change in the university's smoking policy. She presented the presidents with three options the STF is considering: 
•Completely 
smoke free rooms. 

•Designated 
smoking ar­eas, for instance 24-hour lounges. 

•Smoking 
allowed in pri­vate rooms provided all residents agree to it. 


The presidents will be in­formally polling their hall residents and will' report back to Mong next week. 






Human rights forum begins 
MOSCOW (AP} -Mikhail Gorbachev, opening a human· rights conference yesterday, promised an end to "persecution of dissidents" and declared that the hard-line coup failed because the world supported his fledgling democ­racy. 
Giving the keynote address at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the So­viet president called for early ratification of treaties reducing conventional forces and strate­gic weapons and urged the world to "press ahead with demilitarization." 
"Demilitarization is directly related to human rights," Gor­bachev said. Military power "not only drains the economy and ecology, it drains the hu­man condition physically and spiritually." 
With the Soviet Union moving toward democracy, Gorbachev said he hoped the West "will pay greater attention to practi­cal result-oriented help" to as­sist in the transition to a mar­ket economy. 
He said conditions now exist for more rapid implementation of a plan approved by leaders of the seven richest capitalist nations in July to help integrate the Soviet Union into the world economy. 
Gorbachev pledged that the Soviet Union will respect hu­man rights declarations reached at previous CSCE con­ferences, and will work to safe­guard the rights of individuals. 
For nearly half his speech, he dwelled on the abortive August coup, thanking the nations of the world for their support. 
Mikhail Gorbachev 

Among those in the audience in the House of the Unions were human rights activist Yelena Bonner, widow of Nobel Peace Prize winner Andrei Sakharov, and former Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. 
Popular resistance showed that "in spite of a great deal of criticism, perestroika has done a great deal in the last six years," Gorbachev said. 
"The people wanted law and order, but not through dictators and emergency acts," Gor­bachev said. 
Those who attempted the coup will be prosecuted within the law, he said, "but there can be no persecution of dissidents" on the basis of their political views. 
"Restructuring the union de­mands very strict attention to human rights," Gorbachev said. 
"If Europe wishes to avoid a flood of refugees and inter-eth­nic hatreds ... it must make sure minority rights are pro­tected across the continent," he added. 
"Otherwise, the entire CSCE process will collapse, burying human rights under its rubble." 
After he spoke, the represen­tatives gave him a resounding ovation, and some in the back of the hall stood in admiration. 
The human rights conference was the first major one hosted by the Soviet Union. During more than 70 years of Com­munist rule, the Kremlin had called human rights standards an Interference in internal af­fairs. 
As the conference's first order of business, it admitted Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia as full CSCE members. They join every European nation plus the United States and Canada and raise the total membership to 38 countries. 
It is the first international organization to accept the in­dependence of the Baltic states. 
The conference is also the first opportunity for the United States and other nations to assess changes in the Soviet Union first-hand since the coup. 
Foreign Minister Roland Du­mas of France praised Gor­bachev, saying: "Without his resolute action ... we wouldn't be here." 
"Let us rejoice in the victory of the democrats," he said. "Their victory is also our vic­tory." 
With the revolutions in East­ern Europe, the fall of the Ber­lin Wall and now the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union, Dumas said, the old East-West confrontation is rapidly disappearing. 
"Together the people of Eu­rope can build a home based on common values. The new Euro­pean balance must be founded on principles that we agree to­gether," he said. 
Astronauts prepare for first night landing 
a.m. EDT at Kennedy Space Center. It will be the first night landing at Kennedy. 
The satellite will spend at least 1 1/2 years studying the ozone layer as well as strato­spheric winds, chemical compo­sition and solar energy. 
Scientists said data beamed back to Earth will improve their ability to predict-and possibly prevent -the ozone loss blamed on pollution. 
"We owe it to future genera­tions to watch this dangerous stuff that we put Into the stratosphere," said Joe Waters, a researcher on the project. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP} -Discovery's astronauts worked the graveyard shift to­day in preparation for Thursday's nighttime launch on a mission to put an ozone­studying satellite in orbit. 
The countdown proceeded without interruption, with the weather in NASA's favor, too. Chances of good wea-ther at liftoff were put at 80 percent. 
Discovery is scheduled to blast ofT on NASA's 43rd shuttle flight at 6:57 p.m. EDT. 
Commander John Creighton and the five-member crew un­derwent medical exams and flight briefings and undertook equipment checks after waking up Tuesday afternoon. A spin in the shuttle training aircraft also was on the schedule. 
The crew is working all night and sleeping much of the day in preparation for the mission, which is arranged around the precisely timed release of the satellite shortly before midnight on the third day of the five-day trip. 
Discovery's landing also is scheduled for off-hours -1:55 



Friday the 13th 
is your lucky day. Grand opening of lunch at 
&lllillmiDIIDll 
Open every Friday (except football weekends) 12 • 2 pm 21 and over 
Jt--
. -. .I 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
U. N. searches for replacement secretary-general 





-

We're Conoco, the Hottest Brand Going. And if you're a Business Major, have we got a date for you. On Monday, September 16, 1991, from 7:00-9:00 p.m., we'll be hosting a reception, in the Alumni Room-Morris Inn, and we'd like to meet you. Come fmd out about the career opportunities at Conoco. And we'll be back on campus to interview on October 29-30, 1991. So, mark these dates, it could be the beginning of a very hot future. 
Dorms 
continued from page 1 
"He's using HPC as a way to get around Student Affairs," she said. 
O'Neill questioned whether a resolution would achieve Yore's objectives. She also questioned whether hall councils have the right to single out and affirm the rights of a specific minority. She did not think that support of homosexuals was an issue fitting for a dorm resolution. 
"Why concentrate on gays and lesbians?" said O'Neill. 
O'Neill said she has not been informed of any "concrete ex­amples" of the fear with which Yore claims homosexuals live. 
"The whole thing is a little bit vague," she said. 
O'Neill has unsuccessfully at­tempted to contact Yore about the memo. 
On the reverse side of the memo is a flier containing ex­cerpts-of a 1988 ND Task Force on Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments which recommended that NO publish a policy assuring "nondiscrimination for all per­sons without regard to sexual orientation." It also recom­mended that the University give groups interested in discussing homosexuality access to cam­pus meeting places. 
The flier then states that the University has "continued to prevent (homosexual) students from meeting on campus... enacted guidelines to specifi­cally censor the unrecognized lesbian and gay group's ads in The Observer... continued to deny employment to persons based on their sexual orienta­tion," all despite the Task Force's recommendations. 
Yore said Monday he hadn't been contacted by anyone about the memos, but he heard that some rectors had seen it. Yore could not be reached Tuesday for comment regarding recent developments. 
Yore explained his decision to issue the memos as an attempt to seek support for homosexu­als on campus without the help of the Administration. 
"The administration is not in a position to help our group," said Yore. "They're worried how it will play for the premier Catholic institution to support (GLND/SMC)." 
According to Yore, at least one underground support and/or social group has existed at ND/SMC for the past 20 years. The current GLND/SMC has been in existence for seven years. 
Bases 
continued from page 1 

to the Senate building for a closed-door meeting with lawmakers. Less than 5,000 people accompanied her. 
Instead, 15,000 people turned out for an anti-bases rally that was to begin at the Senate after Aquino's march. Police kept the two groups several hundred yards apart. Several senators and former Cabinet members, including Aquino's brother-in­law Sen. Agapito Aquino, joined the anti-bases rally. 
The military chief of staff, Gen. Lisandro Abadia, warned on Monday that rejection of the pact would cripple the armed forces, which rely heavily on equipment they get from the ._..., _. Americans under the agree-AP ment. 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Names like Jimmy Carter, Mar­garet Thatcher and Eduard Shevardnadze have been men­tioned as potential candidates to head the 159-nation-member organization, in a selection process that begins next week. 
But it's the lesser-known fig­ures from countries other than the council's "Big Five" who are the likely top candidates to succeed Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
According to tradition, citi­zens of the United States, Bri­tain, France, China and the So­viet Union are excluded from consideration because of their presumed bias. That would eliminate the former U.S. pres­ident, the British ex-prime min­ister, and the former Soviet foreign minister. 
Prominent contenders are Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan of Iran, the official in charge of 
U.N. humanitarian aid in the Persian Gulf, and Boutrous Ghali, Egypt's deputy prime minister, who was instrumental in negotiating the Camp David peace accords. 
Despite repeated disavowals of interest, 71-year-old Perez de Cuellar has not been ruled out by some diplomats who say he might be persuaded to stay on temporarily if a deadlock develops. 
The Peruvian diplomat was a compromise candidate who was acceptable to the Big Five when he was named in 1981 for the firSt of his two terms. 
The five leading countries, who are the permanent mem­bers of the powerful 15-mem­ber Security Council, are ex­pected to decide on a nominee in private meetings this month. Then they recommend the name to the full council for 

Javier Perez de Cuellar 
presentation to the General Assembly. 
The Security Council begins consultations Sept. 16, and diplomats hopll to present at least one candidate for a Gen­eral Assembly vote in October. The new U.N. chief would as­sume office on Jan. 1, 1992, for a five-year term. 
The new secretary-general· will preside over an organiza­tion swept by radical changes, including the collapse of com­munism in the Soviet Union, and bolstered by the U.N. coali­tion that defeated Iraq in the Persian Gulf War early this year. 
The emergence of democratic governments in Eastern Europe and other regions and mem­bers' concerns about economic growth and environmental haz­ards are some of the major is­sues facing the world body. 
U.N. reform is also needed. 

Old-fashioned diplomacy is no longer enough for the secre­tary-general. The job requires professional and administrative skills to deal with complex is­sues and to manage the U.N.'s international bureaucracy. 
While diplomats say a super­human is needed for the job, the major powers are likely to settle on a competent diplomat-administrator who puts a premium on getting along with the Big Five. 
Egypt has campaigned hard for Ghali, but his age, 68, is against him. Diplomats also say that although he represents a moderate Arab state, the United States is not enthusiastic because the volatile Middle East issue will figure prominently on the U.N. agenda and the proposed international peace conference this fall. 
Prince Sadruddin, a sophisti­cated, pro-West Muslim, holds Pakistani and Iranian pass­ports. He has been involved in 

U.N. humanitarian work for years, but his administrative skills have been questioned by some. 
Africa is pressing for the first black African secretary-gen­eral, but has been unable to agree on a single candidate, presenting instead a list of six, including Ghali. 

(conoco) 
A Du Pont Subsidiary 
.. I , 
'' 
' 

--------~--------~-----­
wednesaay, ::;eptember 11, 1991 1ne uoserver 
page 5 

Thomas shares views at confirmation hearing 
WASHINGTON (AP) Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas went before the Senate Judiciary Committee today, and leading Democrats said they would use his confir­mation hearings to question whether he favors a "radical change" In American law-in­cluding a ban on abortions. 
Thomas sat quietly In a packed committee room, his family nearby, as Sen. Joseph Biden pledged "open and fair" hearings. But Biden, D-Del., wasted little time in getting to a topic expected to consume much of the hearings ­Thomas' belief In "natural law," a legal theory that some Individual rights are inherent and independent of all govern­ment authority. 
Sen. Strom Thurmond, the panel's senior Republican, said Thomas' rulings as an appeals court judge were "within the mainstream" and warned his Democratic colleagues about Inappropriate questions. 
"Requiring a nominee to pass an ideological 'litmus test' would seriously jeopardize the efficacy and independence of the federal judiciary," Thur­mond said. 
But Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., told Thomas, "We'll want to know what you really think ... Don't hide behind the argument that you can't discuss the is­sues." 
Thus was the stage set for what is expected to be a lively set of hearings for Thomas, a 43-year-old black conservative nominated to replace retiring Justice Thurgood Marshall, the nation's first black justice. 
After each of tho committee 
memb.ers gave an opening 
statement, the proceedings 
were stopped for a 90-minute 
lunch break. Thomas was to 
begin his testifying later in the 
afternoon. 
Even before Biden rapped the 
opening gavel, Thomas' nomi­
nation triggered a confirmation 
battle more akin to a political 
campaign -television com­
mercials, endorsements by 
dozens of groups for and 
against, and a daily drumbeat 
of support from President Bush. 
Abortion aside, Thomas also is expected to be questioned about his views on civil rights -especially affirmative action -and the right of privacy. 
Thomas smiled broadly as he shook hands with Biden and other members of the commit­tee in advance of the opening gavel. 
For tire most part, he sat qui­etly at the witness table while members of the committee out­lined their views on his nomina­tion. 
There was a moment of hu­mor when Biden asked Thomas how old he was. Thomas, 43, replied, "well, I've aged. over the last 10 weeks" since his nomination. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., said that while Thomas has never commented publicly on abortion directly, the nomi­nee once praised a speech that called abortion "the constitu­tional equivalent of murder." 
But Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, a strong Thomas supporter, said Thomas should not be forced to spell out his views on abortion because Justice David Souter was not required to do so. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp
Dressed for success 
NO seniors (left to right) Patrick Sheehan and Jamie Reidy register for their senior photos at LaFortune. This is one of the many traditions which.seniors partake in during their final year under the dome. 
Congress may reduce defense budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell said today that the United States must reduce its defense budget, as Congress returned from summer recess and faced the first legislative attempt to slash military spending since the coup in Moscow. 
The effort to trim Pentagon spending was part of a $204 billion measure the Senate be­gan debating that would pro­vide fiscal 1992 funds for the departments of Health and Human Services, Education and Labor. The new fiscal year starts Oct. 1. 
As part of wide-ranging de­bate on the bill, Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, who Is expected shortly to announce his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination, plans to propose transferring $3 bil­lion from the Defense Depart­ment to 10 domestic programs. These include programs for breast cancer research, college students' grants and heating bill aid for the poor. 
Similar attempts have failed in recent years. But Harkin could gain support from law­makers who believe that the disintegrating Soviet Union jus­tifies a leaner U.S. defense budget. 
Mitchell, D-Maine, did not specifically endorse Harkin's proposal. But he said he be­lleved It Is time for the United States and the Soviet Union to reduce their defense spending. 
"It Is time· to adjust our de­fense budgets to the new reali­ties of Soviet-American rela­tions," Mitchell said. 
The same blll wlll be the fo­rum for a resumption of the Senate's fight with President Bush over whether federally fi­nanced family-planning clinics can give advice on abortion. 
The legislation would negate a Supreme Court decision that upheld administration rules banning taxpayer-paid abortion counseling. Bush has threatened to veto such a mea­sure in the event Congress ap­proves it. 


THE NOTRE DAME 

The entire University community is invited to the formal opening ofthe Sesquicentennial and the academic year with an academic procession and Mass at 5p.in. in the joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Following the Mass there will be apicnic in Cartier Field, east of the ]ACC, which will include live entertainment, games ofchance, rides for young children and afireworks display at dusk. 
Masses in the main church are cancelled on Sunday, September 15. 
-~ ---~--~-­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Croatians slept under their first curfew since World War II, but the clampdown in the se­cessionist republic early today did little to quell ethnic fighting between Croats and Serbs. 
Fourteen people reportedly died in violence overnight, in­cluding two federal army offi­cers killed by a car bomb. 
The important Croat stronghold of Osijek in north­eastern Croatia was shelled heavily, and fighting continued over an important highway and at several Croat-held towns in eastern areas. 
Elsewhere, Macedonians awaited the official results of a Sunday referendum on inde­pendence, which was expected to pass overwhelmingly. Prelim­inary returns announced Mon­day in Skopje, Macedonia's cap­ital, said 74 percent of the vote supported secession by Yu­goslavia's poorest republic. 
Although prepared to declare independence, Macedonia's leaders said they want to retain some links with other Yugoslav republics as part of a loose confederation rather than make the complete break sought by Croatia and Slovenia. 
Croatia's Interior Ministry announced late Monday that an 11 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew was be­ing imposed in 29 municipali­ties in the war-tom eastern ar­eas of the republic bordering rival Serbia. 
The curfew apparently is an attempt to deal with attacks by militant Serbs who oppose se­cession. The rebels have won control of about a quarter of 
Battles continue in Yugoslavia 
vision Monday night that at least 400 Croatian militiamen and civilians have been killed and more than 2,000 wounded. It is not known how many 
Australia offers its solution for nuclear waste 

Croatia's territory in the fight­ing that began after Croatia declared independence June 25, along with neighboring Slovenia. 
Ethnic Serbs say they do not want to be part of an indepen­dent Croatia because they fear mistreatment. Croatian author­ities say Serbia, the largest Yu­goslav republic, instigated the rebellion in an effort to grab Croatian territory. 
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman said on Croatian tele-Serbs have died. 
Conflicting reports and the difficulty of reaching areas where fighting· is going on make it impossible to verify ac­counts of the fighting and ca­sualties. _· 
In the latest fighting, Osijek, the center of Croatian resis­tance in the northeast, came under heavy fire from the direction of Baranja, an area controlled by Serb rebels, the Tanjug news agency said. It said about 30 mortar shells were fired into the downtown and residential areas of the city. 
One woman was killed and at least two people were wounded in the latest attack on the city of 130,000, the Croatian news agency HINA said. 
Serb guerrillas appeared poised to try to take Osijek de­spite an agreement by all par­ties in the area last week to ob­serve a cease-fire while federal and republic leaders try to ne­gotiate a settlement in peace talks sponsored by the Euro­pean Community. The foreign ministers of Yugoslavia's fed­eral government and six re­publics are to meet in the Netherlands on Thursday to set a schedule for talks that are expected to last several months. 
On Croatia's Adriatic coast, two federal army officers were killed late Monday when a car bomb exploded in front of an air force base at Zadar, the army said in a statement. 
SYPNEY, Australia (AP) ­As the United States and other countries struggle to find places to store nuclear waste, Australian companies say they have an answer: ship it to their vast country and store it in "'synthetic rock:" 
They foresee a $200 billion­a-year business by the year 2000. But they also face opposition by environmental­ists. 
The inventor of the synthetic material, or Synroc, says it can store naturally occurring ra­dioactive elements for millions of years without the leakage possible from other means of containment, such as regular rock, steel casing or layers of concrete. 
Nuclear waste, some of which have half-lives of thousands of years, need to be stored in dry, stable a.reas to prevent leakage and con­tamination. 
The problem of proper dis­posal of tons of radioactive waste has become a pressing issue around the world. Nevada is fighting U.S. gov­ernment efforts to put a major high-level nuclear waste dump at Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas. 
The proposed dump would open by the year 2010 and en­tomb 70,000 tons of waste from nuclear power plants across the country for 10,000 years. The U.S. Energy Department warned that aging atomic waste tanks at one nu­clear reservation in Washington state could leak high~level radiation before a new dump is established. \ • 
Bernard Cohen, professor of physics and radiation health at the University of Pittsburgh, says the Australian project could provide the safest means of storing nuclear waste to date, despite the costs. 
"The start-up costs could be prohibitive, perhaps in the neighborhood of a billion dol­lars, but if they are willing to put the money behind it, technologically it's the best way to go," he said of the Australian venture. 
About $20 million has been spent on rese.arch in the past 13 years. And the Australian government has endorsed a Synroc study group, created years ago, although the gov­ernment bans the import of nuclear waste and is unlikely to immediately change its stance. 
The Synroc study group hopes that with an educational campaign about safe uses of the synthetic rock, to be con­ducted over the next four or five years, domestic opposition to the importation of nuclear wastes would decline. 
The group, including re­source companies CRA Ltd., BHP Co. Ltd., Western Mining Corp. and Energy Resources of Australia, said it has identified options for employing synroc in nuclear waste storage. BHP, a multinational enterprise, is Australia's largest company. 
The study group said options include selling the technology overseas as well as creating an integrated waste management industry in the Asia-Pacific re­gion. The consortium would draw up plans to construct nu~ clear storage facilities and produce Synroc. 


Thursday, September 12 
FIRESIDE ·cHAT 
ARIEL Russian Pianist 
Topic: 

"Pop and Rock in a C.hanging Soviet Union" 

12:00 Noon 
LUNCH PROVIDED '· Multi-Cultural Executive Council 
F{S:,t 


---~---------~-­
Wednesday, September 11, 1991 The Observer page7 
Auditors question U.M. expenses 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Federal auditors say the University of Michigan asked the government two years ago to help pay $8.8 million In questionable expenses, Including Rose Bowl air fares and liability Insurance for the school golf course. 
The audit was conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Inspector General. It is one of many the government has con­ducted after accusing Stanford University of up to $180 million in overbilllngs during the 1980s for questionable research-re­lated costs. 
The Associated Press ob­tained a copy Tuesday. 
University of Michigan offi­cials said they disagreed with most of the report's findings and were planning a detailed rebuttal. 
But Hep. John Dingell, D­Mich., whose House Energy and Commerce oversight subcom­mittee is investigating univer­sity billing practices, rebuked his home-state institution. 
"The unallowable or inap­propriate charges made by the University of Michigan are typi­cal of those we have seen at other universities, so I cannot say that the draft report's findings come as any surprf!ie," he said. 

"Nevertheless, I am deeply disappointed that the University of Michigan appears to have had the same cavalier attitude toward spending the public's. money." 
Dlngell said the university should "take the necessary steps to remedy the situation and make restitution, just as other universities are being called to account." The sub­committee will conduct a hear­ing this fall when it receives the final report, he said. 
University spokesman Walter Harrison, however, insisted the report's conclusions vindicate the university's current billing policies. Few, if any, changes will be required in the rate at which the school charges the government for administrative research costs, he said. 
"I assure you we do not have a cavalier attitude at all," Harrison said. "We're meticu­lous in trying to account for our costs, and we believe we've followed (federal guidelines) as closely as we could." 
The $8.8 million in the report represented 17 percent of $46.9 million the university wanted the government to cover for its share of administrative costs in the 1989 fiscal year that could be attributed to federally spon­sored research. 
The $46.9 million was the lion's share of $52 million that the university said was its total indirect costs resulting from handling $125 million in gov­ernment research contracts during the year. Michigan is one of the nation's top recipients of federal research grants. 
The report labeled $8.3 mil­lion worth of the expenditures the University of Michigan submitted as "unallowable" or "inappropriate" under gov­ernment standards. 
It questioned an additional Express yourself 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp

$474,121 In spending as possi­
Sophomore Angie Bednarek puts the finishing touches on her
bly "extravagant or otherwise 
creative project yesterday in Basic Drawing, catching the warm
inappropriate" for reimburse­
sunshine in between frequent clouds. 
ment. 
Debate continues over all-male schools SECURITY BEAT 



reported the theft of a television from his
WEDNESDAY,SEPT.4

WASIIINGTON (AP)-Rank something that's totally into the curriculum. We've 
car while it was parked in the C·19:30 a.m. A University employee parking lot.
and-file educators and leaders segregationist, because you're worked too hard" to integrate 
reported the loss of her handicapped 2:06 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
of national organizations are trying to do something. schools to revert back, said 
decal. 
responded to the report of four vandals
split over whether black boys in "We isolate people who are ill Brinkley, who is principal of the 
9:45 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident spotted near the Hesburgh Library. Noreported he lost his wallet at South
troubled Inner cities should be with communicable diseases. Willard Model School in 
suspects were found. A large doorDining Hall
placed In all-male public We don't look at constitutional Norfolk, Va. 
window was found to be broken at the10:05 a.m. A University employee 
schools to raise their achieve­questions. We look at the gen­
library.
reported the theft of his parking decal 2:28 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
ment. eral welfare of the country," Both Brinkley and Crosby are 
from his car while It was parked at his confiscated a keg of beer from Red
President Bush sparked the Crosby added. black. 
residence. 
Field East as it was in violation of1:18 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
renewed debate Tuesday when, However, Lillian Brinkley, "I'm just not as excited about" 
University Rules prohibiting kegs fromfound two ·suspects soliciting magazine
responding to questions by ed­president of the National it as some people might be," 
University property. 
subscriptions in Flanner Hall in violation
ucation writers, he said that Association of Elementary said John Elliott, president of 
9:00 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Policeof University policy. 
received a report of vandalism at the
single-sex schools or School Principals, said, "I think the Detroit Federation of 
3:15 p.m. A University employee Sacred Heart Church. A basement
"something of that nature has a minority boy can be success­Teachers. He said the school 
reported the loss of her B·1 parking window had been broken.
decal.
some merit." ful in a regular school. The idea oiJers features that should be in 
9:15 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police3:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
of some special attention i" h•y all schools, such as smaller 
responded to a report of a largeand Notre Dame Fire responded to a
"I really support the idea," I'm not sure that separation is classes, a curriculum that em­
gathering of students tailgating In Whitebicycle accident on Dorr Road. The Field North. The students were
said Emera! Crosby, principal of the key. phasizes achievement, values 
victim was treated for injuries and then Informed that they were In violation oftransported by ambulance to St.
Pershing High School in Detroit. ''I'm a wee bit concerned of and responsibility and pledges 
University rules and were cleared fromJosephs Medical Center.
"I'm not sure at this point that the separating out of our chil­from parents to be involved 
the area.
3:45 p.m. A Pasquerilla West resident
we're dealing with something dren because they have needs. with the education of their chil­
10:20 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Policereported she lost her purse at South confiscated !-shirts from a suspect
that's totally unconstitutional or We have to bring their needs dren. 
Dining Hall. 
illegally soliciting the shirts in Orange9:53 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­Field.
ported the theft of his license plate 10:25 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Policeframe from his car while it was parked In confiscated a bag of beer from a 19 year the D-2 parking lot old student near Lyons Hall. 
10:25 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee
THURSDAY, SEPT. 5 

confiscated !-shirts from two suspects who were Illegally soliciting the shirts 
11:30 a.m. Notre Dame Security Police near the Notre Dame Post Office. 
responded to an accident near 10:47 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police O'Shaughnessy where a parked bicycle responded to a large gathering of had been run over. The bicycle was students in violation of University rules taken to the station and the owner was in White Field North. The students were contacted. cleared from the area. 
5:47 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident 11:10 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police reported he lost his wallet In the Has­confiscated !-shirts from a suspect burgh Library. illegally soliciting the shirts in Orange 
Field. 2:15p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
FRIDAY, SEPT. 6 

confiscated !-shirts from a suspect who 12:41 a.m. A Pasquerilla West resident 
was illegally soliciting the shirts in Green reported the theft of the hubcaps from 
Field. 
her car while it was parked in the D-2 
2:28 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident parking lot. 
reported that her locked bicycle was 1:48 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police 
stolen from the bike rack In front of her searched the Burke Memorial Golf 
dorm. Course after spotting two suspicious 
3:03 p.m. A visitor to the University persons in the area. No suspects were 
reported the theft of her purse from her found. 
vehicle while it was parked In Orange7:25 a.m. A lyons Hall resident re­
Field. ported the theft ot her locked bicycle 
3:25 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Policefrom the Lyons Hall bicycle rack, 
confiscated t-shirts from a suspect1:37 p.m. A Notre Dame faculty 
illegally soliciting the shirts in Red Field member reported she lost her A-13 
West parking decaf. 
4:38 p.m. A St. Mary"s College student 
1:44 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her football season
ROCKIN' RUSSIAN PIANIST ARIEL 
reported the theft of her parking decaL tickets from her pants pocket while she 
3:10 p.m. A University employee was leaving Notre Dame Stadium.
will appear September 12 & 13 at Washington 
reported the theft of a neon sign from 
4:47 p.m. A visitor to the Universitythe basement of the LaFortune Student 
reported several items were taken from
Hall 8:00 pm. Ariel's revolutionary 
Center. 
her vehicle while it was parked in Blue 3:44 p.m. A University faculty member Field Nonh.
interpretations of the classics of western POP 
reported he lost his season football 
5:30 p.m. A University employeetickets. 
reported vandalism to her car while It 6:48 .p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police
& ROCK music will literally BLOW YOUR 
was parked in the B-2 parking lot. 
confiscated five cases of beer from two 6:15p.m. A visitor to the Universitystudents who were both under 21 years
SOCKS OFF! He's AROUSING, 
reported that her purse was stolen from of age. 
her car while It was parked on Palmer 9:05 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident Street.
ARRESTING, A REVOLUTION as he 
reported the theft of a Notre Dame Flag 
6:40 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Policefrom a storage room in his dorm. 
confiscated t-ahirts from a suspect
performs the works of Led Zeppelin, Elton 
10:44 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police 
illegally soliciting them In Red Field responded to the report of a disorderly 
East
John, Chicago, and The Moody Blues. 1/2 
drunk student in Sorin Hall. The student 
9:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee was returned to his dorm and left In the 
responded to disturbance in Red Field
price tickets on sale Wed. 12, noon to 5:00pm. 
care of his rector. 
West. A fight was occurring when officers arrived. The parties were
$4.00 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 7 calmed down and the disturbance was 
1:48 a.m. A lli&ilor to the Unilltrsity• ' -.stopped. • •• , 
, 

Wednesday, September 11, 1991
page 8 The Observer 

Final arguments heard in Swaggart lawsuit 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -Final arguments began today in evangelist Marvin Gorman's $90 million lawsuit against rival Jimmy Swaggart, with Gorman's lawyer telling jurors that Swaggart timed a 1986 meeting of ministers to ruin Gorman's chances for a $20 million loan. 
During the meeting at Swag­gart's house on July 15 of that year, Swaggart and other min­isters confronted Gorman with accusations of his marital infi­delity, accusations that Gorman said were untrue. 
The 1986 meeting has been a focal point of the 9-week-old trial. Swaggart acknowledged it took place but said he didn't arrange it and wasn't behind the spreading of the accusa­tions. 
Gorman lawyer Hunter Lundy said that wasn't true. 
"This case is about July 16, the day Marvin Gorman was to be assigned a $20 million pack­age," Lundy said. He said the loan package was the reason Swaggart and other ministers chose the day before as the date for the confrontation. 
The closing defense argument was to follow the one by Gor­man's lawyer, and the jury was expected to begin deliberations this afternoon. 
Lundy had wanted the trial to include testimony about the 1988 affair that ended Swag­gart's affiliation with the Assemblies of God, the nation's largest Pentecostal denomina­tion. Swaggart left the church because he refused to submit to its discipline after Gorman sent church elders photographs of Swaggart and a $20 prostitute. 
The woman later gave graphic descriptions of their li­aisons to Penthouse magazine. Judge Julian Bailes ruled it was all irrelevant to the case at hand. 
In his statement, Lundy pointed out inconsistencies in the testimony of Lynda Savage, who testified on videotape that she had intercourse with Gor­man eight or nine times over 2 112 years. Gorman had said Savage was the only woman he ever committed adultery with and that it was a single act of never completed intercourse. 
Lundy said Savage testified that Gorman gave her money from the mini!!try's petty cash to pay hotel bills. When asked what she did with receipts, she said she threw them away when the Visa bill came in. 
"A Visa bill is a credit card, not cash," Lundy said. 
The only other sexual indis­cretion Gorman had admitted to was an episode of passionate kissing and embracing with Lynette Goux, a friend of Swaggart's wife, Frances. Lundy noted that Goux was never called to the stand. 
Although Swaggart was the defendant in the case, it often seemed that Gorman was on trial. 
The verdict will depend on whether jurors believe Gor­man's claims that a smear campaign destroyed his min­istry, or defendants' claims that he lost the ministry because he abused his position as preacher and counselor. 
APIFile Photo Closing arguments were heard yesterday in evangelist Marvin Gorman's lawsuit against Jimmy Swaggart. Gorman claims that Swaggart timed a meeting of ministers to ruin his chances of receiving a loan. 
Rescue 911 recaps boy's 
. 
expenence 
ALTOONA, Pa. (AP) -The whole country is going to get to see what it was like the day 14­year-old Duane Della got his tongue frozen to a freezer. 
Lucky for Duane, this time around it was an actor with his head in the freezer for a seg­ment of the television show "Rescue 911." 
Duane was mum after a weekend of videotaping at his house. He would say only that the experience wasn't the greatest. 
Director Mark Cole called for take after take, hour after hour, while the double stood on tiptoe at the freezer and groaned. 
"Cut," said Cole. "Try to make it natural. You're not frustrated ln the beginning." 
Duane was looking in the freezer for something to eat Aug. 18 when he turned his head to yell at his 2-year-old niece, Melissa Garman, for try­ing to climb into the freezer. 
When he realized his tongue was stuck, he told Melissa to drag her high chair to the tele­phone, climb up, get the re­ceiver and bring it to him. He dialed 911. 
Paramedics poured warm water on Duane's tongue to free him. He was shaken but didn't have to be hospitalized. 
Local police wondered why the TV crew picked Duane's rescue when they've risked their lives in more serious circumstances that went unnoticed. 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
is fitting, coming only two 
weeks before the dedication of Notre Dame's new Hesburgh Center for International Stud­ies, which houses the Univer­sity's Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies and Kel­logg Institute for International Studies. 
The establishment of the Hesburgh Center is "visible proof that Notre Dame has a deep international concern," said Hesburgh. 
(j!fj!J'fl. MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
$1.00 orr Coupon 
I 
(&-1 to E-18 Dinner• Only) 402 Dixioway Nonb, Roocland. IN (Aaou &an Bat 1m) Ph. 'J:12.7">13 Houn: .Swc 12-9, M·Th 11·9:30L -~·1.!.;10:30_ 
....------------. 

Good throughout school year. If you buy any large sandwhich and 20 oz. drink, get a free large fry by sho~ing your student ID. Not valid with any other coupons or discount. 



•
• •
•
•
IH!tlllllll~'t • 
~I ~MB~ IJ • 
• • 
•• 
•• 
• 

ARIEL • • 
•
•
• 
•
8:10p.m. •• • Washington Hall ••• 
• 
. $.~ Srudcms/$1 0 '\un-Srudcms • al'ailablc at the •
•
LaFortune C'..cmer Box Office •
•
•
•• ••
• .\riel is a talented Ru,..jan l'ofl t'i3nist who has enamored audicnl"CS : 
: arnund the rmmm·. His JX'Iformanre' incorporate native RU5.,ian • 
• swrit.'' \\ irh t·nnrcmpur~HY. rradirion~11 and nriginal piano pil."t'Cs. : • \ l·.~. rititenlilf lire leaf\ ..\rid ha' li•lluwed his dream ru hrinj( • • rhc m;J~il' ~nd \\onder of lh~o.· pi;mu w :\mcrK:<.~. •
• 

S. African peace plan may not end violence 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The planned signing of a peace pact by black and white leaders is not likely to halt the horrific war engulf­Ing South Africa's black town­ships. 
The main political groups are to sign the peace accord Satur­day, despite a new wave of vio­lence that has claimed scores of lives In black townships around Johannesburg. Even as the del­egates sign the agreement, some of their followers are likely to be fighting each other. 
"What type of people are we that we have turned, with such unbelievable savagery, against· ourselves?" The Sowetan, the country's largest black news­paper, asked Tuesday. 
Like other recent peace plans that failed, the new measure does not suggest how to end the tribal and ideological divisions fueling the violence. Instead, it calls for monitoring to determine who starts the vio­lence. 
Much of the fighting pits the African National Congress against the Inkatha Freedom Party. The country's two biggest black political groups oppose apartheid, but agree on little else. 
The rivalry has sharpened with the Impending end of white rule as President F.W. de Klerk dismantles apartheid and negotiates on sharing political power with the black majority. 
Inkatha and the ANC, which Is much larger, are divided ide­ologically and tribally. The ANC leans to the left; Inkatha backs a free market economy and other conservative measures. 
But the struggle has turned Increasingly into a ruthless bat­tle for power in which differ­ences over political structure and economic systems have be­come largely meaningless. Both 

Wednesday, September 11,1991 The Observer page 9 
Giant rocking chair 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

A wood sculpture class works yesterday on a group project on South Quad. Each of the 6 students was given 1 0 2x4's and together they are making a giant rocking chair which will be completed this Thursday. 
Alleged serial killer pleads innocence 
sides aspire to rule, excluding the other. 
In the townships, the fighting often breaks down ~long tribal lines with Inkatha Zulus bat­tling blacks who back the ANC, whose leadership and support has a strong Xhosa element. 
The rivalry between the Zulus and the Xhosas, the country's two main tribes, goes back cen­turies. Some Zulus say they will never accept an ANC govern­ment because it would be "foreign." 
The fighting also reflects the lawlessness of the townships after decades of apartheid and poverty. Black leaders say their people have no tradition of political tolerance and violence Is the only way they know to settle differences. 
The South African Institute of Race Relations, an independent think tank, estimates nearly 11,000 people have died in po­litical violence since 1984. The overwhelming majority were blacks killed by other blacks. 
ANC President Nelson Man­deJa and other black leaders have charged that the white se­curity forces are fanning the violence, trying to weaken the opposition and give the gov­ernment an edge in power­sharing talks. 
A series of well planned mili­tary-style attacks has helped to spark township violence and raised suspicions about security force Involvement. But the government denies the accusa­tion, and Mandela has not been able to substantiate the charges. 
White right-wing extremists, opposed to government efforts to end apartheid, have been ac­cused of attacking blacks, but have not been linked to the fac­tional fighting. 
FINANCE CLUB MEETING 
Thursday, September 12 
All old and new members welcome. 
7:00 -8:00 pm 223 Hayes-Healy 
Questions? 
Call 
Scott Hazen 289-6642 or Marina Poulakidas x1264 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Jeffrey Dahmer's lawyer hinted at an insanity plea by the alleged se­rial killer at a hearing set for today on 15 counts of murder. 
Police have said Dahmer, 31, has admitted to killing and dismembering 17 males since 1978. He has not been charged in two of the slayings. 
Defense attorney Gerald Boyle did not return calls Monday but said last month he was investigating Dahmer's state of mind at the time of the slayings. 
"There's question as to when these offenses were being committed, If he had a mental disease or defect," Boyle said. 
Dahmer was to enter his plea today. 
Unlike most states where both the crime and defendant's sanity are considered in a single trial, Wisconsin's insanity plea requires a two-phase trial. 
In the first phase, a jury would decide whether he committed the offenses. If the verdict is guilty of committing the offenses, the jury would de­cide in the second phase if he was insane at the time, which would override the earlier guilty verdict. 
A defendant found Innocent by reason of insanity is ordered to a psychiatric hospital and can petition a court for release every siX months. 
The murder counts each carry a mandatory sentence of life in prison. 
A partially handcuffed man Jed police to Dahmer's apart­ment on July 22, saying he had been threatened there. Police found remains of 11 victims, including heads In the refriger­ator and skulls In boxes, court documents said. 

In order to advertise on campus you must REGISTER with the Student Activities Office! Stop by today and find out how you can: 
*Advertise your performances *Reserve facilities in which to perform and *Reserve the LaFortune Sound System (without having to find a group to sponsor you.) 


JanSport quality collegiate apparel and backpacks are available at your college store. 
, ::. 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 11, 1991 Page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill M•naglng Editor Buslnus M•nager Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••.•.•...•.•••..•.•••. Monica Yant ' Advertising Manager .•..••Julie Sheridan Vlawpolnt Editor••.•••........••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••.•.•••••. David Dieteman Production Manager •••••••••••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor .........•••...••.. .John OBrien Systems Manager •••••••••••••..•Mark Sloan Photo Editor ....••••••••••••.•....•..Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••...•...••.....•Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor .•••••••••.•Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through leners, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Group's ad meant to challenge entire community 
Dear Editor: Notre Dame live up to its fore writing his letter he would They have enacted strict guide­strategies and infrastructure to 
A letter by Craig McKee in word." That's an invitation to have learned that GLND/SMC lines that we must follow if we deal with" discrimination based The Observer: (Aug. 30, 1991) every member of the Notre has been banned from running wish to advertise in The Ob­on sexual orientation. Again, calls into question an adver­Dame/Saint Mary's community­such ads. server (including one which had he done any research or tisement placed by Gays and every student, every faculty Mr. McKee's letter suffers says we cannot imply either been involved with the group at Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint member, all the people that from other errors, as well. through content or format that any point in the last year, he Mary's College (GLND/SMC) on work on both staffs, alumni, He implies that the quotation we are an organization, even would have known that the Aug. 27,1991. Tho letter raises friends and families. from the 1988 Report of the though we're registered as a group is precisely geared to­some important issues about In effect the ad' says: Admin­Task Force on Marriage, Fam­Non-Profit group with the IHS). wards doing just that. tho group and what it· is trying istrators are dragging their feet ily and Other Life Commitments 3) They have denied employ­Administrators feel con­to do at Notre Dame and Saint on this Heport-some are even (TFMFOLC) is incorrect. He ment to prospective employees strained In what they can do 
Mary's. As the current Co­actively working against uses the word "incomplete." because they were either gay for gays, lesbians and bisexuals Chair of GLNDISMC, and as the it-therefore. it Is up to each of Yet, he did not even look up or lesbian. as a group-but why should the person directly responsible for us to make life better for les­the report before he made his The University's administra­rest of the Notre Dame/Saint the ad in question, I would like bians, gays and bisexuals at charge. Had he read pages 13, tive actions therefore directly Mary's community have to 
to respond. Notre Dame. 40-42, he would have known contradict TFMFOLC Report wait? Let's take the matter into 
The headline above the letter Mr. McKee says that the fight that the ad quotes the Report Recommendation 40, which our own hands-each of us has captures the letter writer's we're engaged in befouls his 99.9 percent verbatim, and calls for openness on campus, the power to make life better overall point: "Gay and lesbian morning coffee. He makes a does not stray one iota from the access to meeting space and for the lesbian students, the 
group should rise above petty cute phrase, but having to hide Reportl! tone (feel free to look student publications and gay faculty members or the bi­tactics, name calling." The ad a part of yourself because of it up yourself: Notre Dame Recommendation 41, whic~ sexual staffers among us. In question is considered a discrimination, hatred and ig­Reports, April8, 1988). calls for a new nondiscrimina­The Orientation Ad was a 
petty tactic, "the first official norance befouls many souls (as Mr. McKee says that the ac­tion policy including sexual ori­challenge to us all to find a way volley fired over the ad­well he should know), causes tions listed in the ad are entation. to accept and support the gay, ministration's bow" by our many bruises and broken uunsubstantiated." Perhaps I might add that Roland lesbian and bisexual members group, according to McKee. He bones. they are in the ad itself, but to Smith, Executive Assistant to of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's believes that It is a waste of We're not all politics, but you those involved with lesbian, gay President Malloy, endorsed the family. I see that as a purely money and time to trade barbs. won't easily see the social side and bisexual Issues on campus, TFMFOLC Report and Father positive action. 
First of all, the Orientation of GLND/SMC because adminis­they are not Malloy accepted it when it was 
ad was not an attack. It was a trators have forbidden us to I'll repeat what administra­first issued. challenge. Furthermore, the ad run ads that list our activities. tors have done since TFMFOLC: Mr. McKee says that Michael Vore was not aimed at University ad­Mr. McKee wishes we had done 1) They have continued to GLND/SMC ushould be devoted Off-campus ministrators, either. The that in the Orientation Issue ad. deny lesbian and gay students a to providing students, staff and Sept. 3, 1991 headline of the ad read: uHelp Had he done any research be-lace to meet on campus. 2) faculty with the psychic co 
Students in line should clean up after themselves 
Dear Editor: hope that its students would 
On my w~n to work one day too. What a disgrace it is to the last week, I saw approximately University that their students, 50 students outside the JACC, who are allowed the privilege to waiting in line for their football camp out all night to get the tickets. On my way to lunch ubetter" seats for the games, that same day the students can't pick up after themselves. were gone, and in their place was-trash!! Michelle Rossner 
I'm not a student out here, but Secretary an employee who has .respect Engineering Dean's Office for the University and would Sept. 5, 1991 
DOOHESBURV QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'tW I<Jo.JOIAJ, SON, IF ... P/3RHAP5 YW'D 'riJ(J''It 601fN:n7H {f}N5/afR.OfiPPIN6 WHMIAJITH4L-70 IN C1V aJR HJU5e­{lN.;ICY!. 81./YI/oi'iA Hal/~. 
foKJ WAY, ()A[)!7HAT'088 
HUMIUATIN6 FOR. Yal.' YOU 
6fJ'If3HA~ 
'!WR. PRJ[:f;/ 
GOTTA RUN, IA/CJU-, I?AO, 17'9 HIGH SURe, TIW.' ~,MOM I BUT... 7HANI<SFOR 
terr!NGOUT~

I 
MYJAM5.1( 

YOUt&T UJgU,tuHYNOT? aJTHI~ YOU'ReON/..Y JAM~? Mll?lJU3·A6to 
I ONC/3. 
'Even if you are on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there. ' 
Will Rogers 
send suggestions to: ..... Qf)P.TE.S, f.p..B.o~.Q,J'{Q../f'/.1~~5_~ 


Accent 
September 11, 1991

page 12 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 
Getting our feet on the ground 

t's the Sesquicentennial Year! WO<?!_W~O! 
Big parties! WOO! WOO! Lots of tUitiOn In­
creases to pay for the big parties! WOO! 
WOO! 
Amid all of the celebrations for this, the University's 150th anniversary, there are a couple of other changes going on around here. By here, I mean HERE, on this page. . 
This column is one of them. Accent will now feature three regular columnists, each taking turns writing once a week. I, obviously, am one of them. 
You might ask, "What qualifications does he have to write?"' The answer is none, really. But because I'm the editor, I can do what I damn well please. It's my party and I'll cry if I want 
to... h b 
Joining me will be Jeanne Blasi, who as een gracing these pages as a columnis~ since last year: and Paige "Fifi" Smoron, who IS probably one 'of the best known and most liked Inside Columnists The Observer has. 
I know this column is becoming really ego­centric and boring, but before I get to the meat of the matter, I'd like to introduce a few new faces to this page. . 
Music critic Rolando DeAguiar, whose review of Tom Petty's latest album appeared yesterday, will be appearing every other Tuesday. Elizabeth Hayes, our film critic, will appear on the other Tuesdays. · . . . 
Book reviews will return as literary cntlc Ann Marie Hartman reviews a new book about once a month. And as he has been doing for years now, Fr. Robert Griffin will continue to appear every Friday. . 
There. That will be the last time we blow our own horn. If you want to join the Accent de­partment (or any Observer department) come see us on the third floor of LaFortune. If you have some response to anything you read here, write in to P.O. Box Q and let us know. 
Enough. Let's get down to som~ r~ndom thoughts about football games and life m gen­eral. 
• First, one thing I should point out to new­comers to the student section at football games: Only freshmen do "The Wave." Seniors ~re much too cool and mu.ch too aloof to someth~ng that silly Those people that sit in the semor sections ~nd do "The Wave" are actually aliens from outer space. .. . 
Are we too arrogant to do "The Wave? Thmk that if you must, but how many National Championship Seasons have YOU seen. And for that matter, how many people that ~ou had social dance class with are now makmg $18 million in Canada? I thought so. 
• After watching the Bears game on Sunday, 
I began to think. If Mike Ditka, Mich_ael Stonebreaker and Kevin Butler go out partymg, who drives home? 
• 
I heard from a friend that some members of the Office of Student Affairs think I have "an obsession with condoms" after writing about the little thingies in a story last year. To please them, I will never mention the littl~ buggers again. Instead, I'll just throw on a rai~coat and some rubbers and head out into the ram. 

• 
There only appears to be one solution to this whole off-campus violence/police brutality nonsense: Give the ROTC cadets M-16s and send 'em off into the neighborhoods. 


Considering how high tech those pesky cra~k dealers can be these days, the ROTC cadets will still be outgunned. . . 
That's all for now. Enjoy all of the additions to the Accent pages and the rest of The Observer. And for the benefit of all of those under the Dome: 
Condoms. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

Tips for choosing a back-to-school hairstyle 
By PAIGE SMORON himself as "Chick Dog," shaved 
Assistant Accent Editor gels and mousses are the crib everything except for a fuzzy notes of beauty. shamrock on the back of his head. "Isn't it great?" he yelled. "And I
The beginning of the school year • Like a good scientist don't even go 
is a time of transition, a time of tigate your here!" change, a time to fli,ng yo_urself environ m e n t, Kilmartin doesn't into your hairdressers chair and assemble your data claim any 
announce with reckless abandon, and draw your own responsibility for "Simone-give me a new look." conclusions to find these extreme 
Hollywood hairstylist Jose Eber the hair care hairstyles, but says knowsthatreturningtoschoolcan products which suit that University be traumatic. But with the right you best. Hairstylists did in-
hairstyle, he contends that any vest in new student can "go to the head of the And, if all else clippers for creat­class." fails, "...you can ing NO-inspired
"School is the ultimate test of a always sit in the looks. hairstyle," says Professor Eber, back of the class," "We've made our who has students of all ages for says Eber. own stencils so we his class in "Hairstyle 101." Here on campus, IlL--can a four-leaf clover, or 
"Stress, changes in the the t hairstyle changes are an 'ND,'" said Kilmartin. ron men t, r--~---,...,...,.~.;...;~:.:_, for ROTC freshmen Another motivation for style schedule and getting their first mil-changes are for orientation fashion cause itary cut. According to purposes. There are numerous any style to Paula Kilmartin, organizations on campus t~at fail," laments manager of University practice hazing rituals involvmg Eber. "Making Hairstylists, the dramatic loss of hair. matters worse, freshmen aren't Kilmartin says that since more the classroom devastated nearly as and more students have their own acts as a the-much as their nervous clippers, " ... they shave it all off in ate r-in-the-mothers. their rooms. Sometimes they come round -all "Other than that, we in and have me even out the 
eyes are on haven't had many damage." 
you." people come in for At last weekend's Zahm 
He says, "To make the grade, a complete makeovers," said freshmen orientation, one on-hairstyle should be simple, Kilmartin. looker commented on some comfortable, and flexible." "Ken," before his appointment, c n s p i c u o u s 
To ease the shock of what could  claimed  to  be  0baldness:  "How  
be a catastrophic coiffure, Eber  content  with  his  cruel-can  the  
has compiled some tips for the  current cut. "When  upperclassmen do  
curled,  the  combed,  and  the  1 was a freshmen, I  that to them?"  
courageous. ' Having done his homework,  tried somethingdifferent with my  A more informed s p e c t a t o r  
Eber advises:  hair," he said. "I'm  reassured  her,  
•Choose minor style changes  a better person forit now, but I still  "Are you kidding?The freshmen did  
over major ones -this could make the difference between a  don't dates."  get  any  it to themselves." One person on  
look that passes and one that fails.  With the start of  campus, however,  
•Simplicity is a pre-requisite for any school style. Op~ for easy- the football SP.ason,there have been a rash of dramatic  hasn't noticed anyhairstyle trends. Formally called  
maintenance looks, which fit your  hair cuts to express  "Joe the Barber,"  
changing lifestyle.  fanatical  school  informally called  
•Simplicity is a pre-requisite for  spirit.  For  last  "ROTC  Joe,"  he  
any school style. Opt for easy­ weekend's  game  caters  to  ND's  
maintenance looks, which fit your  against  Indiana,  military  com- 
changing lifestyle.  some residents of  munity.  
•Don't cheat yourself out of healthy hair because you have less time in the shower -choose a spray-on conditioner.  Cavanaugh shaved their heads completely and applied gold paint. Another spectator who identified  "They come in, and I cut it. Short," says Joe. Some things never change.  
• Elect for self-drying styles - 

Accent
September 11, 1991 page 13 

'The Passing Zone' brings its comedic talents to ND 
By NICOLE McGRATH week working on a new children's Accent Writer album. As yet untitled, it will be released next February and will Prick up your ears! The one and feature entirely new material and 
only Tom Paxton kicks off Saint new songs. 
Mary's 1991-92 cultural arts season Of the children's market, Paxton 
this weekend. says, "I have found a real sense of 
As a world famous folk singer and discovery in having found yet another 
satirist, he will be bringing his blend place where I belong." This discovery 
of song and wit to the Moreau Center stems from his love for his wife, 
for the Arts (formerly O'Laughlin Midge, and their two daughters, 
Theater) on Saturday, September 14 Jennifer and Kate. 
at 8 p.m. He draws upon the love of family 
Tom Paxton , and his love of life as a 
discovered folk music in People usually basis for his songs. But 
Oklahoma.while earning lump US together Tom Paxton enjoys 
a degree 10 drama. lie finding inspiration from 
found success during with mimes and current events such as 
the early '60's in , the federal bailout of the 
Greenwich Village and ClOWnS, bUt We re Chrysler Corporation and 
~eg?n his glo?etrotting really a lot the Gary Hart scandal. 
111 l:ngland. 1oday he "One Million Lawyers 
has been chosen to be different than and Other Disasters," 
Honorary Chairman of "Balloon-alloon-alloon" 
the Board of the World you'd expect.' and "The Marvelous Toy 
Folk Music Association. & Other Gallimaufry" 
It is truly an honor that Paxton is are only a few of the 
recognized as being the best folk-albums this gifted man has released 
troubador actively working; actually, in the past few years. 
he is the only one lert. When Tom Paxton performs this 
While he says he misses hearing the weekend, he will be combining his 
original "traditional" folksingers like fine songwriting skills with his 
himself, he praises the new breed of magnetic charm. A new ballad "Time 
folksingers. "The level of talent [of the· To Spare" reflects upon the 1960's 
new style of folksinging] is aston-when, as Tom remarks in the S.F. 
ishing today," said Paxton. Examiner, " .. nobody wished us 
In recent years, Tom Paxton has anything but well." 
reached a new audience with his So for everyone not roadtripping to 
clever tunes for children. In the late Michigan this weekend, time to spare 
1980's, he wrote four albums is all you'll need to enjoy Tom 
especially for kids. Paxton's delicious blend of song and 
Jugglers Owen Morse and John Wee will be performing tonight at 
lie's been in Toronto four days this sarcasm. 
Washington Hall at 8 p.m. 
The music man: Tom Paxton 
By NICOLE McGRATH Tom Paxton enjoys finding Accent Writer inspiration from current events such as the federal 
Prick up your ears! The bailout of the Chrysler one and only Tom Paxton Corporation and the Gary kicks off Saint Mary's 1991-Hart scandal. "One Million 92 cultural arts season this Lawyers and Other weekend. A'l a world famous Disasters," "Balloon-alloon­folk singer and satirist, he alloon" and "The Marvelous will be bringing his blend of Toy & Other Gallimaufry" song and wit to the Moreau are only a few of the albums Center for the Arts (formerly this gifted man has released O'.Laughlin Theater) on In the past few years. Saturday, September 14 at 8 When Tom Paxton 
p.m. performs this weekend, he 
Tom Paxton discovered . will be combining his fine folk music in Oklahoma songwriting skills with his while earning a degree in magnetic charm. A new drama. lie found success ballad "Time To Spare" during the early '60's in reflects upon the 1960's Greenwich Village and when, as Tom remarks in began his globetrotting in the S.F. Examiner, " .. nobody 
England. Today he has been troubador actively working, late 1980's, he wrote four discovery stems from his wished us anything but 
So for everyone not
chosen to be Honorary not to mention that he is the albums·especially for kids. love for his wife, Midge, and well." Chairman of the Board of only one left. Of the children's market, their two daughters, roadtripping to Michigan 
the World Music this weekend, time to spare
Folk In recent years, Tom Paxton says, "I have found a Jennifer and Kate. 
Association. It is truly an is all you 'II need to enjoy
Paxton has reached a new real sense of discovery in He draws upon the love of 
honor that Paxton is recog­audience with his clever Tom Paxton's delicious blend 
having found yet another family and his love of life as nized as being the best folk-tunes for children. In the place where I belong." This a basis for his songs. But of song and sarcasm. 
' 




page 14 Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
The Observer accepts classWieds avery business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classified& Is ~.m. All classHied&
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS CHEAP!IIIIInll 25% off list price 1 0.5:30 everyday Pandora's Books comer of NO ave &Howard 
Don't miss Chicago's favorite Irish rockers.. .THE DROVERS. Live in concert. ..Thurs., Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix only $5.00 in advance at LaFortune Box Office. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Great Harvest Bread Co. Indian Ridge Plaza 
NOW HIRING-Par1 Time. $6 per hour. Contact Carol at271-1100 after 12:30 Tuesday thru Saturday. 
Book Sale sponsored by the 
dass of 1993. Pick up your 
unsold books and money 
starting Tuesday Sept. 10 
in the Junior Class Office. 
Pick all books and money up 
by Friday Sept. 13 
The DOS User's Group will be holding it's first meeting of the year Thurs. 9/12 in RM. 227 of the Copmputer-Math Build. at7:00 p.m. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST KEYS, LOST KEYS. I LOST 
4 KEYS ON A NIKE KEY CHAIN. 
PLEASE CALL 277-9468, LEAVE 
MESSAGE . THANKS. 
FOUND: One man's watch on lawn in front of Keenan­Stanford. Please call x2722 to claim. 
Pair NIKE AIR Sneakers taken unintentionally from Rockne Sept. 4-PLEASE retum to Rock-NO QUESTIONS ASKED!! 
LOST:Watch-left in locker at 
swimmino test. & missing when I returned.lt has a black face and band, with gold trim. Call Bill at2787,Carroll Hall. No questions asked, REWARD!! 
found: .intermediate accounting book. 277-9468 
LOST: small gold bracelet Call Lisa at X4989. 
FOUND FOUND 
pair of CONTACTS between Knot and P.E. 
call X2688 to daim 
.... WANTED 
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE II Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote the country's most successful SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013. 
DRUMS II You got'em, we want 'em. Call Joe at 271·1211 or Jason at287-8818. 
WE NEED RIDE TO MICH CALL 2905 
$350.00/ DAY Processing PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-80()..255-0242 
PANAMA CITY BEACH This Spring Break earn free trips and make the most money. Sell the best location on the beach next to the world's largest night dubs. Campus reps needed to promote Spring Break. Call Kim at 1-800­558-3002. 
Do you play bass guitar? If so, we need you. A few NO students are forming a band. Call Jason at287­8818. 
••• H E L P II ••• Anyone who 'raped '5epl. 9 ep';sode of "'i:veri;ng Shade", call271-9165. Will return tape next day. 
-· ·FOR ·RENT l· 
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only $69.95. VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959. 
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO NO. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOUSE FOR RENT 802 Napoleon;one block from campus. Full kitdhen & bath, washer/dryer. Grad students only. Rent negotiable. Call289-7114, after 7 pm. 
A quaint efficiency in lovely old mansion near N. D. 225/mo. plus deposit call 2879624 
Three and four bedroom homes for rent. Walking distance to Notre Dame. 232-5411 or 234-0379. 
FOR SALE 
MacGregor Tour golf clubs, induding bag, cart, and balls. Excellent condition. $190. 233­9094. 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, doseout. T­Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
1990 EPSON EQUITY II+ COMPUTER WI 640K & 1.2MB FLOPPY & 20MB HD, COLOR MONITOR & LQ-510 PRINTER. WP 5.0 IN HD. MUST SELL. ASKING $1000. COMPUTER STANDS FOR BOTH $100. MARK 272-5167 
••HEY AZ. PEOPLE•• Round-trip Ticket from O'Hare to Phx uo fnr c"'" laoain) 
Oct19-26 (Break)...$! 50 Call Jon #1854 
USED AND RECONDITIONED BIKES Please call 289-9101 between 12 & 6 pm Monday through Saturday if interested. 
LAPTOP COMPUTER Zenith 181, dual 3.5 drives IBM P.C. compatible DOS, in carton, rarely used. Call 272-3255 
Used Computers: 
Mac Plus/2ddlpr 
Apple llgs WIWOrkS 
Laptop 386 Wihd 
Matt (x1778) or John (277-2176) 
ATTENTION: BANDS 1111 Quality PA system 4-sale VERY REASONABLE II Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064 
Guitar Lessons from NO teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 
Microsoft Windows 3 ($49), Excel 
2.1 ($75), Word for Windows ($125), or all for $225. (616) 471­1612 
TV FOR SALE. Philips 13 inch color TV. Cable compatible w/ remote control.(only 8 months 
old)Price $200. Please call 2775079 and ask for Dimitris or leave a message. 
MUST SELLI 1988 SUZUKI4 .WHEEL DRIVE 38,000 MILES 
$5,000 CALL 233-7662 AFTER 5 
PM. IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS 
RE: THIS AD PLEASE CALL 
CHERYL WILLIS AT 288-8311. 
I TICKETS 
I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE 
$$$ SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS.$$$ I would like to buy 2 GA's Call Julie at x1342 
Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix for 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323. 
I NEED 3 TIX FOR Pm GAME. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need I.U. and all other tickets call Bill@ X1747 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME AND AWAY GAMESII 
CALL JOE X1762 

I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY 
CALL TOM X1762 

NEED MSU TIX Angie x2172 
NEED Tennessee GA's badly for folks Call Scottx3898 
HelpIll 
My parents are coming out to celebrate my 21st birthday on Saturday the 21st. They need 2 MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a golden birthday. 
Call Julie at x1342 
I have $$$$$ for your Mich St GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or 4208. 
Need 2 GA's for Tennessee Will Pay: Bill #2157 
Need9 USCtix Anything!! x2735 
I need 4 Tenn. stud tix. Will beat any price, TRY ME II Call: 259-6956 
NEEDED: 2 GAs for NAVY game Call Eileen at x4965 
$$$NEEDED-PITT GA'S$$$ Please help me out. Call D. J. x1027 
NEED 4 USC GA'S • CALL PATTI, X4937 
BIG ED wants to come to the Michigan State game. Free BEER at his tailgater to whoever sells him the tix (2). 
Call Monica at 273-2202 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL MARK COLLECT AT 1·407-886-5161. 
$NEEDED$ 
1 Midhigan State GA for a special guest. Pis. call Kim X4271 
I need PmGAs Paul 283-3863 
MY LmLE BROTHER NEEDS A MICH. STATE G.A.I 
CALL CHUCK X1637 
I NEED 8 Pm & 4 TENN. TIX!! CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER WILL BE REFUSEDIII 
Selling stud-tickets all games. Luis 273-1528 
I NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S; $$AND WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S. CALL DAVE @283-1545. 
I NEED 2 OR 3 SOUTHERN CAL. GA'S; CALL DAVE @283-1545. 
•FoR SALE• Michigan GA's Call #3591 after 6PM 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs WILL PAY GOOD$$$ SCOTT 277-3327 
need GA's to TENN game lisa 2572 
NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR MSU I KATE 4998. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA FOR 2 MSU GA. 312-883-5124. 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­
0654. 
Please help desperate alumni I Need 2 Mich St. GA'sl 

Will Trade 2 GA tickets to Midh St, or USC for 2 to Tenn. or will purchase Tenn tickets at top$$. Call Chris or Ed 1-800-800-0061 
I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS ADDEDBOOUS CHRIS X3414 or 3410 
Did you win Midhigan tickets, I didn't. Call me I'm desperate. Chris x2546 
•••1 have Mich G.A.'s ••• ••• x1002 ••• 
··wanted U. Michigan tkts•• Dave 256-5034 
NEED 2-3 MSU GAs STEVE #1083 
I'll sell you my book of stud tickets #232-7498 
Will trade invitation to the BEST tailgater ever for .4 GA's to the Mich St. game. PLEASE HELP MElli Call Jon Paul at271-8049. 
I HAVE PURDUE TIX CALL JIM X2341 
NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's CALL JOE X2341 
Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STill Call Pete x1791. 
i need 2 MICH ST. GA's, and 5 NAVY GA's. Cristin x3433 
I have 2 NAVY GA's would like to trade for 2 PittGA's Chris x1998 
LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3 Tennessee studs. Call George at x1672. 
NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­612-227-7577. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL 271-1371. 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME GAMEl CALL MIKE 1655 
NEEDM.ST. TIX NEEDPmTIX 213-470-4419 Lv. Mssg. 
PLEASE Ill need just one student or 
G.A. ticket to the Midhigan State game. Call Amy x1347. 
WANTED 6 Michigan State GA's 284-5105 
Need Midh St. and USC GAs call Phil at x2096 
TOP $$$FOR GA TENN TXS RANDY 800-323-7687 
TRADE 2 TENN/2 Pm GA FOR 2 USC GA X4045 
Have 2 Pitt GA's trade for MSU GA's. 717-757-1934. 
Need Tenn. GA tix. Willing to trade a# of Pitt or Navy tix or pay. Call Scottx1763. 
NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL MIKE X2322 
$$1 need 2 Michigan St. GA's Dan x1835 
HelpI My family has their plane tickets, now I need 3 GA's for Michigan State! Call Tamara at4768. 
NEED PITT TIX CAlL Matt#1518 
NEED 4 Mich St. G.A.'s Rob x4352 
HAVE TENN. GA'S NEED MICH. ST. GA'S LIBBY X4868 OR 4870 
NEEDED! Mich.St. ti1-2 ga 1 stud. Call Scott •2373 
Need Tenn. GAs for Desert Storm Vets. Call K~!Jth 23Z6 . , , ~ , Needs GAs to all home games esp. 4 for USC, call 271-9165 
HELP! Four Persian Gulf War Vets missed last ND season coming for Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven #2201 
Michigan St GA's NEEDEDI Call Sharon 284-5146 
HELPI NEED 6 MSU GA'S BADLY!CALL MIKE X1630. 
PLEASE 1111 I need two GA's to ANY home game, esp. MSU. X1715 
·I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY PLEASE HELP MEl x4312John 
I need tix for Tenn. (GA or Stu) Call Joe at x2064. 
I need 2 MSU GA's. Call283-2067. 
NEED PITT GA'S, AND TEN. STUDENT TIX -CALL JOHN 246611 
AHHHHHHHII really need Michigan St. tickets! 
CALL MATI x3377 

Need Pitt GA for young bro. Tim X1409 
NEED MICH. ST. TICKET FOR VISITING VIP WILL PAY$$$ PHIL-289-6494 
GAs FOR SALE: 2 Midhigan, 2 USC, 4 Purdue Best offer wins! Call Chris @ 1 023 
NEED MICH. TIX JOE X2341 

I need 2 GAs (together) for the Michi9an State game. Please help !If!! call Jen, 283-4098. 
HELP!! NEED 2 PITT GA'S FOR PARENTS CALL TIM X4063 
DESPERATELY! DESPERATELY! DESPERATELY need PITT and/or TENNESSEE tickets! Contact Allison x2750! !I 
My Iii' bro's yearn for Pitt stud tix­please help! call Kevin 271-9239 
Will trade awsome Mich. St. G.A.'s for USC G.A.'s #1798 
PERSONAL 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Going to CLEVELAND this weekend? I might like a ride, please. Pete x1791. 
Native offers Spanish classes Beatriz, 272 9713 

Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
"I was feeling . nises just everywhere.• -Monica Van! 
III!Holy Tile !I!! Frank "Nappy Tard" Trujillo Is 21 today!!· Happy Birthday Tard -Big Daddy • 
hey nil 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30.6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
COMEDIANS NEEDEDII Tryouts for Notre Dame comedy­improv troupe Sept16-6:30 pm­Basement of Walsh Hall. Bring yourself and some creativity. ???s-Call Tim and Doug at x2266. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MATTIII Much love from RMH 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive 
l;l!l~li~g~ (f!1!i) \l4~?6f!5,, •. ,, • " 
THURSDAY SEPT. 12TH 
BEATCLUB23 
Tony Graffeo presents 
an acoustic wharehouse of ORIGINAL songs and stories. (also various covers) 
··cLUB 23•• 
ROMEO, ROMEO Wherefore art thou, Romeo??? 
My dearest Juliet, Stepan Center is where I'll be, With the Ballroom Dance Club ­Come dance with me I!I 
I'll be there every Thursday From 8:00-9:30 at night. And if you STEP on my TOES ­Well, I guess it's alright. 
Come see the bar debut of PALACE LAUNDRY on Thursday Sept. 12 @ BRIDGET'S. Music starts around 10:30, after Houston takes care of business against Miami. 
!PETE DEFINES STUD! 
Attention NDiSMC, 
In exactly two weeks, Perry Osbom will be celebrating his birthday. Get the twister board and the baby oil ready, because he's looking to let it all out. 
MIKE BURTIN: 
HERE'S A PERSONAL 
ESPECIALLY FOR YOU. 
SINCERELY, JOHN O'BRIEN 
MIKE BURTIN MIKEBURTIN MIKE BURTIN MIKE BURTIN MIKE BURTIN MIKE BURTIN MIKE BURTIN MIKE BURTIN There's your quota. love, O.B. 
KJT-
Thanks for the productive meeting. It meant so much to me. Herbie 
P.S. Ads is next 
A weekly word to my hunk of chocolate love........... HI!I Luv, your roomie 
p.s. Don't interfere with my new positive outlook on life and I'll make your bed until you die! 
Laura Gritz is a bimbo. 
Get psyched quad from hell for the trip to MICHIGAN!I Ann Arbor may never be the same. I hope every street there isn't named Saginaw! 
Kelley & Monish; The (Purdue) road trip may not be for another few weeks bull think I feel the need for a trip to Michigan for a party ball and a Martin's party platter! We have to show Sara what she missed! 
Liza 
p.s. Do we have to take Herbie?! 
To my Doniild Duck loving roomie­Let's not pick up any Midhigan State police or townie bouncers this weekend! 
Love, Your partner in "crime" 
Attention KRISTIN LYNCH-Why in the world would you go and leave me all alone in the Observer production room? Who will I eat french fries and mayo with? Call me! 
Liza 
!!ALL FORUM 
Igor Grazin 
Member of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. Visiting Professor of Law 
SPEAKS ON 
"THE TRUTH ABOUT THE COUP: AN EYEWITNESS 
REPORT" 
Wednesday, September 11 
'·..., 
· "7:00P.M.· • · · • 


BLndmp o 0 0 o Toronto 79 61 .564 Satuntoy, Sepl. 14
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wlkrsn ph 1 0 1 0 Boston 74 64 .536 4 EASTTUHday'o GamH 
Totals 33 2 8 2 Totals 38 6 136 Detroh 72 66 .522 6 Colgate (0-t) at Army (0-0)Late Game Not Included 
Remaining GamH Georgia Tach (0·1) at Boston College (0-2)
New York 9, Montreal 0 Pittsburgh 000 001 010-2 TORONTO (22)-Home (10): Sept. 11, Seattle; Temple (0-1) at Plttaburgh (2·0), NightCincinnati 6, Loa Angeles 0 
Allama 4, San Francisco t E-JBall (21). Tomlin (2). DP-Chicago t. Sept. 30-0ct. t-2, California. Away (t2): Sept. t6-South Carolina (0-Q-1) at West VIrginia (1-1)Chicago 6, Pittsburgh 2 
LOB-Pittsburgh 9, Chicago 1t. 28-Bonds (23), t6, Seattle; Sept 20·22, Oakland; Sept. 23-25,
Philadelphia 5, St. Louis 2 Lind (t4), GBall (26), Dunston (20). 38-JBell (6), California; Oct. 4-6, Minnesota. SOUTH

San Diego at Houston (n) -
Bonilla (5). HR-Sandberg (24), Walton (5). BOSTON (24)-Home (t2): Sept. t6-18, Southern U. (0-Q) a! Alabama St. (t-Q), Night
W..tneoday'o Gameo 
SB-Van Slyke (9). SF-Bonds. Baltimore; Sept 20-22, New York; Oct. t-3, VMI (t·O) at Appalachian St. (1-1)New York (T.CaatHio t-1) at Chicago (F.Caallllo 6-3), 2:20p.m. 
IP H R ER BB SO Detrott; Oct. 4-6, Milwaukee. Away (12): Sept. 1t, MlssiBB~I (2-Q) at Auburn (t-Q), NightSan Francisco (Hickerson t·t) at Cincinnati (Scudder 5-6), 7:35p.m. 
Plt1alugh Detroh; Sept. t2·15, New York; Sept. 23-25, Southern Illinois (2-Q) at Austin Peay (1-Q), NightMontreal (Haney 3-4) at Philadelphia (DeJeaua 10-5), 7:35p.m. 
Tomlin l,B-5 4 8 4 4 2 t Baltimore; Sept. 27-30, Milwaukee. Wofford (1-Q) at Cttadel (1-Q), NightSan Diego (Harris f>-4) 81 Allanta (Merck8r 4-3), 7:40p.m. 
Heaton 2 2 1 1 1 2 DETROIT (24)-Home (t2): Sept. 11, Boston; Youngstown St. (t-Q) at Delaware St. (0-t)Loa Angeles (Hershlaer f>-2) at Houston (Harnisch 9-8), 8:35p.m. 
Blandrum 2 3 t t 0 1 Sept. 20-22, Milwaukee; Sept. "23·26, Cleveland; Rutgers (1-0) at Duke (0-0-1)Plttaburgh (Z.Smlth t3-t 0) at St. Louis (Tewkabury 9-1 0), 8:35 p.m. 
Chicago Sept. 27-30, Baltimore. Away (12): Sept. 12·15, M8f'Tllhls St. (1-1) at Eaat carolina (0-1), Night Sutcliffe W,5-4 7 5 2 2 4 4 Milwaukee; Sept. 17-t8, Cleveland; Oct. t-3, Samford (2·0) at Eut Tennessee St. (0-t ), NightMAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS . Asaenmacher 2·3 t 0 0 0 0 Boeton; Oct. 4-6, Baftlmore. Alabama (1-Q) at Florida (1-0) Scanlan S,1 1 1-3 2 0 0 0 0 Weatem Michigan (2·0) at Florida St. (2-Q), NightNATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Sutcliffe pttched to t batter In the 8th. Woatlllvlelon Lberty (0-1) at Furman (t-O)G AB R H Pel G AB R H Pel WP-Assenmacher. w L Pel GB VIrginia Union (0-Q) 81 Grambling St. (0-1), NightTClwynn SO t32 524 69 t87 .319 Boggs Ban t28 487 87 t65 .339 Umpires-Home, Davidson; First, Layne; Minnesota 85 54 .6t2 Florida A&M (1·0) at Howard U. (t-Q)
Morris Cln tt6 4t2 82 130 .318 Franoo Tex 124 503 90 170 .338 Second, McSherry; Third, Davis. Chicago 76 63 .547 9 Mlssias~l Valley St. (2-0) at Lane (0-t), NightJoee Stl 131 487 60 t54 .318 Molhor Mil 133 56t ttO 166 .332 T-3:02. A-29,299. Remaining GamH Montana (1-Q) at Louisiana Tach (0-t), NightPandlecon All 130 490 94 t53 .3t2 Palmelro Tex 135 540 100 178 .330 MINNESOTA (23)-Home (11): Sept. 16-18, Morehead St. (0-t) at Marshall (1-1 ), NightBonilla Pit 134 504 66 t56 .310 Puckett MIn t33 536 83 176 .328 ST. LOUIS
PHILADELPHIA Kansas City; Sept. 20-22, Te~as; Sept. 24-25, Syracuse (1-Q) 81 Maryland (1-0), NightSabo Cln 131 493 78 150 .304 Thomas Chi 135 481 91 157 .326 
ab r h bl 1br hbl Chicago; Oct. 4-6, Toronto. Away (12): Sept. 11, Tulane (0-2) at Mlsalss~l St.-(2-Q), Night
McGee SF 108 405 55 123 .304 Tartabull KC 113 426 72 139 .326 Batiste ss 5 1 2 0 Lnklrd cl 4 0 0 0 Kansas City; Sept. 12-15, Texas; Sept. 27-29, Cincinnati (0-1) at North Carolina (0-0), NightWCiark SF 129 498 74 151 .303 Griffey Jr Sea 132 470 65 15t .32t Ready2b 5 0 2 0 OSmlth ss 4 2 3 0 Toronto; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-3, Chicago. Kent (0-1) at North Carolina St. (t-O), NightBuller LA 136 534 98 182 .303 CRipkan BH 138 549 86 176 .321 Hollins 1b 4 0 2 0 Zelle 3b 4 0 0 0 
CtiCAGO (23)-Home (12): Sept. 17-18, Rhode Island (0-0) at Richmond (0-0) Biggio Hou t29 463 89 139 .300 Quintana Bsn 127 422 65 130 .308 BCstllo cl 1 0 0 0 Grrero tb 3 0 1 1 Oakland; Sept. 20-22, California; Sept. 27-29, Alabama St. ( t -Q) at Southern U. (0-0) 
HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 33; Gant. EMartlnez Sea 127 454 83 140 .308 Krukcf 4 t 0 0 Joserf 4020 Saattle;Sept. 30-0ct. t-3, Minnesota. Away (11): UCLA (t-o) at Tenn88Bee (t-Q)
Allanla. 28; MaWIIIIama, San Francisco, 28; HOME RUNS-Fielder, DetroH, 39; Canseoo, 4 1 MThmpK3000 Jackson St. (0-t) 81 Tennaeaee St. (0-2)
Murphyrf 1 t Sept. 10-11, Oakland; Sept. 12-1 5, CaiWomla;
McGrlft, San Diego, 27; KvMhchell, San Francisco, Oakland, 37; Carter, Toronto, 32; Thomas, CHayea 3b 4 1 3 2 CWisonph 1 0 0 0 Sept. 24-25, Minnesota; Oct. 4-6, Seattle. Cantral Florida (1-t) at Valdoeta St. (0-0), Night27; WCiark. San Franclsoo, 26; Dawson, Chicago, Chicago, 30; Tartabull, Kanaaa Chy, 26; CDavis, Chbln~ 3000 Pgnozzlc 3 0 0 0 Southern Methodist (0-1) at Vanderblh (0-1). 
25. Minnesota, 27; CRipken, Bahlmore, 27. Lak8c 4111 Oqando 2b 3 0 0 0 NATIONAL LEAGUE Navy (0-1) at VIrginia (0-1)
RIII-WCiark, San Franclaoo, 105; Bonds, Rill-fielder, Detroit, 119; ThomM, Chicago, Greenep 4 0 1 1 Crrrierp 1 0 0 0 Weatlllvlelon Western Carolina (0-t) at Wake Forest (0-0).Plllaburgh, W; Johnaon, New York. 98; Bonilla, 103; Carter, Toronto, 99; Canseco, Oakland, 98; MIWmap 0 0 0 0 Alloeaph 1 0 0 0 w L GB
Pet. 

Plttaburgh, 90; MoGrfl, San Diego. 90; Dawson, Sierra, Texas, 96; JuGonzaiez, Texu, 115; Ventura, 
Fraaerp 0 0 0 0 Atlanta 78 60 .565 MIDWEST Chicago. 90; Gant. Atlanta, 87. Chicago, 92; CRipken, Battlmore, 92. Perryph 1 0 0 0 Los Angelea 78 6t .561 112 Illinois St. (1-Q) at Akron (0-t), Night ,.DOUBLES-8on1Ua, Plllaburgh, 311; Joee, St. DOUBLES---f'almeiro, Texu, 41; Grtlley Jr, Terryp 0000 San Diego 70 68 .507 8 Iowa (t-Q) at Iowa St. (t-O)Louis, 38: Sabo, Clncinnecl. 32; O'Neill, Cincinnati, ·Seattle, 40; Carter, Toronto, 38; CRipken, Totals 38 5 t2 5 Totals 32 2 6 1 
Remaining GamH Tulsa (2-Q) • Kanaaa (t-Q)3t; Morrla, Cincinnati, 30; Gant, Atlanta, 30; JBell, Bahlmore, 38; Sierra, Texaa, 37; Boggs, Boeton, ARANTA (24)-Home (11): Sept. 11-12, San Idaho St. (t-Q) at Kanaaa St. (1 -0), NightPlttaburgh, 30. 37; RAiomar, Toromo, 36; WMe, Toronto, 36. Philadelphia 020 030 000-5 
Diego; Sept. 13-15, Loa Angeles; Sept. 24·26, Eutem Michigan (0-2) at Mlam, Ohio (1-1)
STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlama, 69; Grlasom, STOLEN BASE&-RHande1110n, Oakland, 50; St. Louis 000 100 001-2 Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houlton. Away (13): Sept 16-Notre Dame (1-Q) at Michigan (t-D) 
Montr•l. 64; DeShlelcM, Montreal, 50; Bondi, Ralnea, Chicago, 47; RAiomer, Toronto, 43; E-Zelle (20). LOB~hlladelphla 7, St. Louis 4. 17, San Franclsoo; Sept. 18-19, San Diego; Sept. Central Michigan (t·0-1) at Michigan St (0-0)Plllaburgh, 40; Coleman, New York, 37; Butler, Loa Polonla, CalHomla. 39; Cuyler, Detroh, 35; Whtte, 28-Murphy (26), CHayea (20), Lake (2), Greene 
20-22, Loe Angeles; Sept. 27·29, Houston; Sept. San Jose St. (0-1) at Minnesota (0-0), NightAngelea, 36; l.llnkford, St. Loula, 33. Toronto, 32; Franoo, Texu. 27. (t), OSmhh (24). C~atlste (t). 5-Charrber­30-0ct. 1·2, Cincinnati. INinois (1-0) at Mlaaouri (0-0) PITCIINQ (13 Dadelonar-Rijo, Cincinnati, t3-PITCtiNG (13 Daciei-)-Heaketh, Boston, laln. SF-Guerrero. 
LOS ANGELES (23)-Home (13): Sept. 16-17, Colorado St. (1-1) at Nebraake (t-0)
4, ,765, 2.48; Carpenter, St. Louis, 10-4, .714, 4.23; 10-3, .769, 3.37; Erickson, Mlmesota, 18-6, .750, IP H R ER BB SO Cincinnati; Sept. t8-t9, Houston; Sept. 20-22, Arkana• St (0-2) at Northern Illinois (0-1)Downs, San Francllco, t0-4, .714, 3.92; 3.13; Langston, CaJHomla. 17-7, .708, 3.t1; Finley, Philadelphia Atlanla; Sept. 27-29, San Franclsoo; Sept. 30-0ct. Rica (0-0) at Nonh-tem (0-0) MIWIINama, Philadelphia, 10-4, .714, 2.08; Hurst, California. 17-8, .680, 3.64; GuiNckson, Detroit, 17-Greene W,10-7 8 1-3 6 2 1 0 5 1-2, San Diego. Away (10): Sept. 11-t2, Houston; LoulsviHe (1-t) at Ohio St. (1-0) San Diego, 15-8, .714, 3.14; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 17-8, .680, 4.24; Tapanl, Mlnneaota, 14-7, .667, 2.82; MIWIIIIams S,26 2-3 0 0 0 •·o 1 Sept. 13-15, Adanta; Sept. 24-25, San Diego; Oct. Tenneaaee Tach (0-1) at Ohio U. (0-0-1)8, .680, 3.311; DeJeaua, Philadelphia, t0-5, .867, JAbbott, CaiKomla, t6-8, .667, 2.92; JoGuzman, St. Loula 4-6, San Francisco. Waatem IINnols (t-D) at Wlaoonsln (0-0) 3.35; Glavlne, Atlanta, 18-9, .667, 2.32. Texas. 10-5, .867, 2.95. Cormier L.2·3 6 tO 5 5 0 4 SAN DIEG0(24)-Home (11):Sept. 16-17,
STRIKEOUTS--Cona, New York. 191; Glavlne, STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boeton, 204; 
Fraser 2 1 0 0 0 2 Houston; Sept. 18-19, Adanla; Sept. 20-22, San SOUTHWEST Allanta. t70; GMaddux, Chicago, t87; Harnlach, RJohnson, Seattle, 191; McDowell, Chicago, 172; Terry 1 1 0 0 0 1 Prairie VIew (0-t) at Angelo St. (0-1)
Francisoo; Sept. 24-25, Los Angeles; Oct. 4-6,
Houston, t53; Gooden, New York. 150; Banea, San Ryan, Texaa, 183; Candlottl, Toronlo, 153; PB-lak8. Cincinnati. Away (13): Sept. 10, Houston; Sept. 11-North Texu (1-0) at Oklahoma (0-0) Diego. t311; Hurst, San Diego, t311. l.llngston, CaJKomla, 150. Umpires-Home. Crawlord; First, Rlppley; 
12, Atlanta; Sept. 13-15, San Franclsoo; Sept. 27· Atlzona St. (0-0) at Oklahoma St. (0-1 ), Night
SAVE&-leSmMh, St. louis, 38; Dibble, SAVE&-AguUera, Mlnneaota. 39; Eckersley, Texas Southern (2-Q) at Sam Houston St. (1-Q)
Second, Tata; Third, Hohn. 29, Cincinnati; Sept. 30-Qct. 1·2, Los Angeles.
Cincinnati, 28; MIWIMiama, Philadelphia, 26; Oakland, 311; Harvey, CaJKornla, 38; A881don, T-2:41. A-16,210. LSU (0-1) at Texu A&M (0-0), NightFranco, New York. 24; Lefferts, San Diego, 2t. Boeton, 37; Henke, Toronto, 3t. Ball St. (1-1) 81 Texu Christian (1·0), Night Oregon (t-O) at Texu Tech (t-Q), Night
~////////////////////////////////////~ 
1 The Castle & Co. : FAR WEST
~ Pre-Law Society News: --~ -------------------------­
Stanford (0-1) at Arizona (0-1), Night Long Beach St. (0-1) at Bolle St. (1·0), Night
: Men's Hairstyling 1
~ ~ 
Purdue (1-0) at California (1-0)I I Baylor (t-D) at Colorado (1-Q)1 YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, 1 New Mexico (0-2) at Hawaii (1-1), Night~ Seniors! ~ 
I SW Texu St. (1-Q) at idaho (1-Q), Night Sacramento St. (1-Q) at Montana St. (1·1)~ ~ NW Louisiana (1·0) at Nevada (1-Q) 
WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
I 

Texaa-EI Puo (1-1) at New Mexloo St. (0-0).Haircut, Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition I PacMic U. (0-2) at San Diego St. (t-Q), Night
~ There will not be a Personal Statement ~ Penn St. (2-Q) at Southern Cal (0-1 ), Night 
Reg. student cut $11.00 I Oregon St. (0-1) at UNLV (0-1), Night Air Foroe (2·0) at LHah (2-Q), Night FresnoS!. (1-0) at Washington St. (0-t)
% seminar on Thursday Sept. 12. Professor ~ Bring in a friend and receive your I I Northern Arizona (2-Q) at Weber St. (1-1), Night 
SW Louisiana (0-2) 81 Wyoming (0-2)
your cuts for $9.00 each. I 
will conduct the seminar on Thursday,~ : Trlyla challenge:% 
1 Who won the1945 American
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS
,.-....,...•.19 at 7:00pm in the Library Auditorium~ 
272..{)312 277-1691 I League and National League~ I L I batting championships? 
% I 54533 T errace ane I ._ 
Exp. date 9-30.91 · • w·,,b._......,,..,~,.,i•h"• ..-•......,_,._
~////.////////;-//////////////////////z 
---------~-------------­
,... 




Observer File Photo Michigan's Gary Moeller says the Wolverines will need a ball-control offense if his squad is to prevail on Saturday. 
Virginia offensive lineman Puddin Roberts is a hit off the field as well 
Wednesday, September 11, 1991
The Observer 

UM's Moeller counting on improvement 
opening drive that nullified a "I want Notre Dame to pass ­
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP)­Lance Dottin interception. not successfully -but to pass," Michigan may not be especially Wolverine mistakes also al­he said. "We've got to stop the proud of its opening victory lowed the Eagles to stay in con­running game." over winless Boston College, but tention until the final1:14 when Moeller also knows that Notre it's a game coach Gary Moeller Michigan put the game away Dame's 4-0 current streak over wants the Wolverines to with two touchdowns. them may be a mental obstacle remember. that "puts a doubt in some 
Michigan gave a mediocre Moeller was disappointed with people's minds." performance in the 35-13 vic­his team's performance, but tory, which Moeller says was relieved to have a 1-0 record A case of Notre Dame-on-the­hampered by several "stupid" going into Saturday's match Brain may have contributed to mistakes. with No. 7 Notre Dame. the Wolverine's slipups against 
"I don't want them to forget Boston College, Moeller admit­
"I don't think we played a about last week's game," ted. But with a tough month­smart football game," Moeller Moeller said. "I think it's a good long schedule still ahead of said Monday. "We never deliv­teaching tool. Michigan, he says the team will ered a knockout punch. just have to bear down. 
"It's said your biggest im­"We made self-destructing provement is from the firs_t Following the Irish, Michigan mistakes," he said, which kept game to the second. I'm count­will face top-ranked Florida the Wolverines from gaining ing on that to be true." State then Iowa and Michigan any intimidation factor. State. Moeller admits the next 
Michigan went into the game Notre Dame has won the last month won't be easy. ranked No. 2 and was favored four meetings with the by 28 points over the Eagles. Wolverines and the Fighting "Michigan is presented with a The underwhelming exhibition Irish will come to Michigan tremendous, tremendous chal­in New England caused the Stadium with a 49-27 opening lenge this month," he said. "You Wolverines to drop to No. 3 this victory over Indiana behind better be able to play one game week, behind Florida State and them. at a time and play hard. Miami, Fla. 
Moeller said the key to "You got a tough schedule ­
Michigan suffered some un­Saturday's game will be con­but you got a great opportunity timely errors, including an off­trolling the ball and preventing as well. You've gotta be tough, sides penalty during Boston's the Irish from running. mentally tough." 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) for the nickname of Puddin' fortable around me. And they him use my TV for a whole again.' So I went down the -Virginia coach George Welsh that his teammates have don't think I'm this big, you year, just because I consider street and dribbled a basketball shakes his head and chuckles bestowed on him. know, 'Don't speak to him, he'll him a good friend." for a little while, picked up the when asked if there's any valid­orr the field, he's the kind of knock you out' kind of guy." As a youngster, that good-na­pads and went back and caught ity to the story about his en­person everyone wants to know. Indeed, Roberts seems to be tured, gentle attitude stayed the end of practice. And I've counter with Ray Roberts. He can't seem to stop smiling or on a mission to know as many with him on the football field. been playing ever since." 
"Whatever you heard, it's chatting with everyone he people as possible. "I quit the team in little league Roberts was 6-foot-5 1/2 and true," he said. meets. "To me, you can never have because, well, actually, they weighed 255 when he came to The story is from 1987, when On the field, don't mess with enoul!h friends because vou were hitting too hard," he said. Vrrginia from Asheville, N.C. 
Roberts was a redshirt fresh­him. He won the Jacobs never know who's going to not "And so one day I came home "When I first got here, I wasn't 
man at Virginia. Scuffles on a Blocking Trophy in 1990, sym­be there or who's going to tum from practice early and my dad really gung-ho at all because I 
football practice field are not bolic of the best offensive line­their back on you," he said. was working on the car. He wasn't very strong. I only 
-
that unusual, and by all ac­man in the Atlantic Coast "And I just like to talk to people said, 'Why are you home so benched like 265 or something, counts, Roberts took part in his Conference. One NFL draft ana­-not just about football but early?' And I said, 'Well, they and most of the other guys in fair share of them. But on this lyst calls Roberts the best of­about anything. Plus, if yo1,1 hit a little too hard for me.' He my class, when we first gotparticular occasion, a fight had fensive line prospect in this limit your friends to people on said, 'Hit too hard? Don't you here, they benched over 300 progressed to the extent that year's crop of. college seniors. the football team and take that like the Dallas Cowboys? pounds. So I used to wait for Welsh felt inclined to jump on Roberts said he has no prob­kind of attitude off the field, you Haven't you always wanted to them to leave the weight room Roberts' back in an effort to lems leaving his physical side won't find too many people to play for them?' before I worked out. Now I break it up. on the football field. talk to. Some of my best friends "And I said, 'Yeah.' And he guess I could say as far as 
"No more. Never again," ·"Basically, it's because as big are just guys I met in my dorm said, 'Well, you'll never play for bench-pressing, I'm the Welsh said of his fleeting at­as I am, if I took all that ag­my rrrst year. One of them, I let them unless you start playing strongest guy on the team," tempt at keeping the peace. gression off the field, I might 
Roberts, you see, is not some end up in jail or murdering 
little defensive back who got a someone," he said. "And I think 
little too feisty. it's important that you leave 

• 2 Medium Cheese Pizzas
Quite the opposite. He's a 6-that on the field because it has foot-6, 300-pound offensive allowed me to get to know a lot tack! -one who seems perfect more people. They feel com­
•One single order of 
SPEND A YEAR OR SEMESTER 
Breadsticks

AT 
• 2 Softdrinks 
NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA --f%1 • $10 plus tax 

Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA STUDY BUSINESS 
I 
must show ND or SMC ID 
IN PERTH 
INFORPrfATIO'JII MEETIN{;11'VflHVICE-CHANCELLOR 
DAVID LINK 

Expires October I,1991
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1991 RM 122, HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM 5!00 PM . _ . \LL lllfSINESS ADMiNISTitATlON SOPHOMORES ARE WELCOME! 
Now Hiring 
Wednesday, September 11, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Ditka: Giants not 'Hoboken High' LaFontaine lifts USA 
the Giants who went on to win But he said there's room for 
in Canada Cup action 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) -the Super Bowl. improvement despite the victory 
Coach Mike Ditka wants all of his regulars ready this week when the Chicago Bears take on tho New York Giants. 
"These arc the world champi­ons. This is not Hoboken High," Ditka said Monday. "We need all our guns." 
That means Ditka wanl'> full­back Brad Muster and left guard Mark Bortz back in ac­tion. Both missed Sunday's 21­20 victory at Tampa Bay, and Muster also missed the opening 10-6 victory over Minnesota. 
Muster has been out because of a pulled hamstring. Bortz :miTered a disc injury when he was hit in the back during the Minnesota game. 
"Muster will not play unless he's well, but I think he'll play Sunday," Ditka said. 
The Bears coach would like nothing better than to avenge last season's 31-3 playoff loss to 
"We were done. They kept on going," said Ditka. "We talked about it. The guys who were here know. We bowed out. They went on to win the Super Bowl. They deserved it." 
Despite the coaching change from Bill Parcells to Ray Handley, Ditka said nothing much has changed about the Giants who are 1-1 after being upset by the Los Angeles Rams 19-13 Sunday. 
"The Giants are exactly the same" as they were last season, said Ditka. "Bill laid the foun­dation, and this guy is putting the blocks on it. They have good people, a good philosophy. They play 'stick it in your face' and have a good concept on defense." 
And the Bears? 
"We have two wins on one side and zero on the other," he said. "That's all I care about." 
over Tampa Bay. 
"We have to get better. We have to block better, pass bet­ter, and we didn't. kick ofT very well. A fumble hurt us, and we have to cut down on penalties. 
"We'll find out this week," Ditka said when asked how good the Bears might be. "We're playing the world champions. If that doesn't ex­cite you, nothing will. We'll find out a lot about ourselves. We're hanging in there everyday. We're interesting. I'm having fun. I'm not unhappy at 2-and­0." 
Ditka said he did not know if this season's Bears are stronger than last year's team that was 11-5 after the regular season and 12-6 overall. 
"I think we have a better un­derstanding of our offense, and we are better defensively as a team. But we have to make what I'm thinking happen. It's my job to make them execute." 
Pebble Beach going private? 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. (AP) ­The California Coastal Commission says a tentative agreement over Pebble Beach Co.'s plan to set aside prime tee time would protect public ac­cess to the California coastline. 
The agreement announced Monday would allow Pebble Beach to go ahead with hotly contested plans to reserve two hours of choice morning tee time for people who buy expen­sive memberships. 
However, lt inc'l.udes provisions that would prevent the company from further limiting public use without going though the long process of winning additional amendments to coastal regulations. It also requires annual reviews of the resort's membership plan by the county for the next three years. 
Opponents to the company's membership plan, which was approved by Monterey County Supervisors, have feared it would establish a precedent to restrict the public's use of California's coastline. 

"This defines in concrete the public's right to play and hike along the Pacific coastline," said Diane Landry, a commis­sion lawyer who worked on the accord. "(The settlement) we've reached with them is a good one because it prevents them rrom incrementally restricting access to the coast without seeking Coastal Commission approvals." 
James F. Boccardo, a promi­nent lawyer and longtime Pebble Beach property owner who sued last month to main­tain the current level of public access, sharply criticized the agreement. 
"I think it's terrible," he said. 
"I don't think they should permit any private member­ships. This is a public golf course." 
Boccardo claims the plan to sell memberships would violate restrictions in all Del Monte Forest property deeds. Those restrictions guarantee the courses will be operated for the sole use and benefit of local homeowners and the public, he said. 
The agreement announced Monday would not anect his suit, Boccardo said. 
The Coastal Commission, which regulates development and access along the coast, must formally approve the agreement, for it to take eiTect. The 12-member agency meets Wednesday in Marina Del Rey. 
The Monterey Board of Supervisors also must endorse the pact. 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -For Ozzie "I enjoy it here, but I cannot the season and make an Smith and Pedro Guerrero, the point a gun to their heads to evaluation on both situations," silence from the St. Louis sign me," Guerrero said. "Who Maxvill said. "When the sea-Cardinals' front office has been knows what these peoples' son's over, then we'll sit down deafening. plans are?" and make those decisions." 
Both can be free agents after If general manager Dal The prevailing wisdom around the season, but there's been no Maxvill knows, he's not saying. Busch Stadium indicates that absolutely no action on their · "I've said all along that we're the Cardinals will exercise the soon-to-expire contracts. going to wait until the end of ·option on Smith's contract for 
!!!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~another year at about $2 mil­
lion -a bargain by present standards -and let Guerrero go. 
Smith, the National League's starting All-Star shortstop for the last nine seasons, is making it tough for the Cardinals to let him go. At 36, he's hitting .296 and ranks among the league leaders in runs, walks, on-base percentage and stolen bases. 
He also has committed only 
CHICAGO (AP) -Pat LaFontaine's goal with 2:33 remaining gave the United States a 4-3 victory over Finland on Monday night and second place in the round-robin portion of the Canada Cup. 4-1-0 for 8 points, their best showing ever in the six-team tournament. Canada, which tied the Soviet Union 3-3 on Monday to finish 3-0-2 for 8 points, fin­ished first because it beat the United States 6-3 in their head­to-head meeting. 
The United States and Finland (2-2-1) will meet Wednesday in Hamilton, Ontario in the first semifinal; the Canadians will play Sweden (2-3-0) on Thursday night in Toronto. The best-of-3 final round starts Saturday in Montreal. 
LaFontaine, the New York Islanders' star center, broke a 3-3 tie when he raced in from the blue line, took Kelly Miller's passout from behind the net and fired a wrist shot from the top of the right circle over goaltender Jukka Tammi's left shoulder. 
The Americans, sparked by two goals from Joel Otto, took a 3-1 lead after one period. 
Craig Janney opened the scor-
The Pebble Beach Co. owns the famed Pebble Beach Golf Links, Spanish Bay and Spyglass Hill courses, and two hotel on the Monterey Peninsula. 
The controversy arose earlier this year when it was reported that Japanese tycoon Mlnoru lsutani, who bought the com­pany last year for an estimated $840 million, planned to pay ofT the debt by selling some 1,500 private memberships. 
Joe Petrillo, a lawyer for the Pebble Beach Co., said the agreement will let the company otTer a limited number of mem­ing at 8:05, tipping in Brett Hull's wrist shot. But Petri Skriko, Janney's teammate with the Boston Bruins, got the Finns even just 12 seconds later, beating defenseman Gary Suter down the middle and wristing the puck past John Vanbiesbrouck. 
Otto broke the tie at 15:30, knocking in Craig Wolanin's rebound, then made it 3-1 when he converted former Calgary teammate Joe Mullen's cross-ice pass 11 seconds later. 
Esa Tlkkanen made it 3-2 at 
9:19 of the second period, tak­ing Janne Ojanen's pass and beating Vanbiesbrouck with a wrist shot from the left faceoiT dot. 
Tikkanen, who's trying to work out a new contract with Edmonton, tied it at 10:21 of the third period when his cen­tering pass from behind the goal line hit Vanbiesbrouck and went into the net. 
Vanbiesbrouck, who had spent the tournament backing up Mike Richter, his teammate with the New York Rangers, preserved the tie by stopping Teemu Selanne on a breakaway and foiling Timo Peltomaa from the top of the crease after a giveaway. 
berships. Each probably will sell for about $150,000, rather than the previously reported $750,000, he said. 
The exact number of such memberships has not been de­termined, but Petrillo said he expects about half will be sold in the United States and the other half in various foreign countries. 
The pact would let the resort set aside 60 hotel rooms and the two hours of tee time at the Pebble Beach course for club members. Members could re­serve as long as five years in advance. 
Smith, Guerrero uncertain if future plans will include St. Louis 
seven errors, giving him a shot at the league record for fewest errors in a season. Philadelphia's Larry Bowa set the record with nine in 1972. 
"He sure has made a case for himself," manager Joe Torre said. "But where we're going as a team is what we have to look 
at.'' 
The longer the Cardinals wait, the less Smith cares about staying in St. Louis. 
"One of the things they don't talk about that interests me is a buyout," Smith said. "But the way they've handled things, I have no idea what's going to happen. There's not a lot of logic involved." 
Smith· has played in 12 7 games with 25 games remain­ing. If he plays in 150 games 
INTI!RN.moNALmmYPI\OGJUMS 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL MEN'S IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC. SOCCER 

DEADLINE SEPT. 11 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
ENTER IN THE RecSports OFFICE, JACC 
1992 ACADEMIC YEAR 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR ANGEL DELGADO
CAMPUS GOLF 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1991
DEADLINE SEPT. 25 
6:30PM. ENTERATTHE 
ROOM 114 O'SHAUGHNESSY GOLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
the Cardinals would either have to pay him $2 million or buy out the option year for $400,000. At the 140-game plateau, they'd owe him $1.75 million or a $400,000 buyout. 
Guerrero, 35, has less of a case. He's in a 6-for-58 slump and has only five RB!s since coming
ofT the disabled list on Aug. 20 following a hairline fracture of his lower left leg suiTered in a freak collision with catcher Tom Pagnozzi. His left shoulder has bothered him all season, aiTecting his bat speed, and his power numbers are on the crit­icallist. 
Guerrero has only eight don­bles and 16 extra-base hits all season, atrocious numbers for a cleanup hitter. He's also hit­

.----------UNI_VE_RS_ITY:...._O_F_N..::O:....TRE__D_AM_:_E__;_______--;ting .262, 43 points below his 
career average of .305, and is third on the team with 58 RBis. "I had a good first half, but 
check my numbers right now nd I can't be pleased," uerrero said. "It's not too ood a time to get hurt. 
"If it wasn't for the injury I ~ad, I would have been on top." · Guerrero has seven home runs after getting 13 last -­season, 17 in 1989 and 27 in 1987. He bristled at talk of his 
iminishing power, however. "It doesn't matter how you get them in," Guerrero said. "I see 
lots of guys with 20 home runs and 40 RBis, so what good is that? 1 don't care if I get 150 singles, as long as I'm bringing 
L-----~~-----------------~smnerunn~rsin." • 
• ~-... _ ... ;r ....._.................................. ,...........-.... ·.~~-· ... . 
page 18 
The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
Player reinstated after allegedly failing drug test 
MISSOULA, Mont. (AP) ­University of Montana offensive tackle Steve Premock says a court order allowing him to re­turn to the playing field is "just another ton of bricks off my shoulders." 
State District Judge Douglas Harkin ruled Monday in favor of Premock and against the NCAA, which had declared Premock ineligible to compete during his senior season because he allegedly failed a test for anabolic steroids. 
Citing "substantial questions" about the NCAA's drug-testing procedures, Harkin issued his injunc_tion following a two-day hearing. 
Harkin also said he intends to order NCAA officials to appear before his court to show why they should not "forever be barred" from penalizing the 296-pound Premock. 
Premock took the stand Monday and answered "no, sir" to the single question of whether he ever took anabolic steroids. 
"There's no place for athletes to use them," Premock said. "You have to weigh the effects and side effects. I'd rather choose life than death any day." 
Premock transferred to Montana before the 1989 sea­son from Sierra Junior College in California. He was redshirted that year but started every game last season. 
After Harkin issued a tempo­rary injunction two weeks ago, Premock was allowed to prac­tice with the team. 
He missed the Grizzlies' sea­son-opening 38-6 victory over Humboldt State on Saturday and will play this Saturday against Louisiana Tech, Montana athletic department officials said. 
Premock was declared ineligi­ble after an NCAA random drug test on Feb. 28 showed positive for use of anabolic steroids. 
Premock and Montana officials weren't notified of the results until April 2 and quickly had Premock tested again. His lawyers said that test, con­ducted at American Biotest Laboratories in Santa Clara, Calif., proved negative for any steroids. 
In his ruling, Harkin cited the lack of a clear chain of custody of the urine specimen, inaccu­rate dates in the NCAA's drug tests, an improperly signed lab manifest, and a late notification of the test results. 
He also pointed to a telephone appeal process that "left a lot to be desired" and uniformity of certain results for all the players tested except Premock. 
The overall result, Harkin said, was "nothing short of remarkable." 
Premock was one of 71 college players nationwide declared ineligible for positive drug tests during the past school year, ac­cording to the NCAA. 
"l could tolerate some incon­sistency in the testing proce­dure if there was some indica­tion slight errors occurred and the plaintiff showed evidence of steroid use," Harkin said. 
But team physician Dr. Robert Curry testified that Premock doesn't exhibit the normal symptoms of a steroid user. 
And Harkin noted that at the time of the NCAA test Premock was on a diet, trying to lose weight, not gain it. 
The NCAA had no representa­tives at the court hearing Friday or Monday. 
Harkin said he was worried that the NCAA would penalize the school if Montana allows Premock to play. 
NCAA rules state that a team that uses ineligible players may have to forfeit its games, lose its team and individual awards, be declared ineligible for post­season play, and have to send the NCAA all its television re­ceipts and 90 percent of its gate receipts. 
"It's foolish to go through a football season and have it all thrown out the window because I didn't hear all the evidence that might change my mind," Harkin said. "I don't think it's right for a party to ... lay back in the weeds and tag you at the end." 
He told university attorney Joan Newman and Premock's attorney, Brad Luck, to draw up motions to require NCAA of­ficials to appear in his court before they attempt to impose sanctions against Montana. 
Luck said the NCAA "should take a real strong look at their own random testing proce­dures" before declaring other athletes ineligible because of alleged drug use. 

Nasty Boys add to record-Charlton gets reprimand 
CINCINNATI (AP).-Norm Charlton's nastiness has stunned the Los Angeles Dodgers, who won't forget that he tried to hurt their starting catcher. 
Charlton, one of the Cincinnati Reds' three Nasty Boys pitchers, has been reprimanded by manager Lou Piniella for admitting he purposely hit Mike Scioscia during a game Monday night. 
· Charlton said Scioscia was stealing signs, so he threw at him. And he promised to hurt him again the next time they meet. 
Not a smart move, according to Piniella. He met with Charlton on Tuesday afternoon and told him the statements were foolish. 
"Now you have to live with the consequences," Piniella 
Holtz 
continued from page 24 
Taylor, who suffered an ankle injury against Indiana, did not practice either Monday or Tuesday. Taylor's fellow line­man, Mirko Jurkovic, also missed Monday practices due to an ankle injury, as did quarterback Rick Mirer. 
Mirer reportedly suffered from headaches and an upset stomach, which Holtz said was probably correlated to a sack Mirer suffered against Indiana. 
Holtz also predicted that Pete Bereich and Demetrius DuBose would start at inside linebacker against the Wolverines. 
"For sophomores, the linebackers played like we ex­pected them to play," said Holtz. "But we did not tackle well. Bereich deserves a start at this time." 
Freshman wide rece1 ver Mike Miller returned to practice Monday. It was his first practice since suffering a hamstring injury during the preseason. 
"Mike Miller did most things without aggravating his injury," said Holtz, "but we did ask him to protect it. lte can play, but we just can't tell when. There is a possibility he'd be returning punts-he catches punts well-but I can't say. I don't think that Michigan would be the best place to break him in." 
said. "Being truthful is one 
thing. Being smart is another." 
One of the consequences is an 
investigation by National 
League president Bill White, 
who was made aware of the 
matter Tuesday. Another con­
sequence is possible retaliation by the Dodgers. 
"He made a big mistake by saying that," manager Tom Lasorda said. "It's a disgrace to baseball for a guy to make a statement like that. 
"Who does he think he is? If he doesn't like (Scioscia), why not just meet him one-on-one downtown somewhere and find out how tough he is?" 
Charlton hit Scioscia on the arm during the Dodgers' 10-4 victory Monday night. Scioscia thought the pitch had slipped, and made no move towards the mound. 
The reliever made his inten­
tions clear after the· game. He 
told The Cincinnati Post he was 
giving Sciascia a payback for 
stealing signs as a baserunner. 
"1 threw at him," Charlton 
said. "I hit him on the arm, but 
I didn't mean to hit him on the 
arm. He'll be lucky if I don't rip 
his head off the next time I'm 
pitching." 

It's common practice for baserunners to try to steal a catcher's signs and relay them to hitters. It's also common for pitchers to disq>Urage the practice by throwing inside when they think a batter's get­
ting help. 

It's unusual for a pitcher to publiCly threaten a hitter the way Charlton did. 
Charlton declined to discuss to talk about the matter Tuesday. Scioscia denied stealing signs, but declined to discuss Charlton's threat. 
"It's his problem, not mine," Scioscia said. "That's all I'vr got to say." 
Charlton's statements were 

St. Mary's College Ireland Program 
INFORMATION MEETING TONIGHT 
Wednesday, September 11,7:00 pm 304 Haggar College Center St. Mary's College 
Everyone Welcome 
the talk of the Dodgers' club­
house, although players were 
guarded in their statements. 
Pitcher Tim Belcher said he 
was stunned to read Charlton's 
comments. 

"Stunned enough to say there's nothing more anynody can say on our side or his side," Belcher said. Piniella, who admits he stole signs as a New York Yankees player, said Charlton shouldn't have spoken out. "You can't condone it," Piniella said. "It's just a foolish statement. I was more sur­prised than anybody when I saw it. "I think people tend to learn from their mistakes. If I were a pitcher and I hit somebody for whatever reason, I think I'd 

have about eight reasons why I 
wasn't throwing at somebody." 
Charlton and Scioscia were in­
volved in one of the most cele­
brated home-plate collisions of 
1990. Charlton ran through the 
thii·d base coach's stoo sirm :m~ bowled Scioscia over to score a run last June at Riverfront Stadium. 
It's the latest in a long series of troubles involving the Nasty Boys. 
Fellow Nasty Boy Rob Dibble has been suspended twice this season by White: for throwing behind Houston's Eric Yelding, and for hitting a grade school teacher in the stands with a throw. White gave him only a fine for throwing at a Chicago Cubs baserunner. 

Howard Helmer tells the incredible edible egg story for the American Egg Board with whimsical and informative demonstrations of egg cooking techniques. Although his presentations are light-hearted, Helmer is a heavy-weight in egg preparation. In 1990 he officially broke the Gujness Book world ·record for the second time by preparing 427 omelets in 30 minutes. 
Although Helmer's flash-in-the pan cooking methods and unorthodox style of instruction might not follow the rules of classical cuisine, they do make instant egg experts out of everyone he teaches. He has been enthusiastically received by professional culinary groups, international chef societies as well as restaurant and retail grocer associations throughout world. 
Brunch on Saturday, Sept. 28 atNDH Sunday, Sept. 29 at SDH 
10:00 am Sharp 
Open to students, faculty, and staff. Student on Notre Dame board plan need their 1.0. The cost for all others is $5.50. Registration is on a first-come, first-serve basis -limit of 200 people each day. 


~~ ---~---~--~ -~ 
-----~~-~-~ --~---~------~------~-~­
Wednesday, September 11, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Olympian Pavelich opts for San Jose's hockey climate 

DALY CITY, Calif. (AP) -Mark J>avelich stepped out of retirement to attempt a come­back with the San Jose Sharks, and nearly died trying to get to training camp. 
A member of the much-cele­brated 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team, Pavelich played five years with the New York Hangers before quitting the Minnesota North Stars 12 games into the 1986-87 season, fed up with the lifestyle th.at goes with playing in the NHL. 
"It was no longer fun," Pavelich said. "Now I think I can have some fun. It's a nice place out here. I'm looking forward to it." 
After a summer negotiating the terms of his return, 
Backup 
continued from page 24 
Freshman Paul Failla also 
cannot be overlooked. He expe­
rienced a tremendous high 
school football career, leading 
his team to a 14-0-1 record and 
the Pennsylvania state title. In 
addition, he had the chance to 
play baseball for the Kansas 
City Hoyals, who chose him in 
this year's draft, but instead 
decided to pursue his education 
at Notre Dame. 
Vaas stressed Failla's versa­
tility as one of his greatest as-

Kevin McDougal 
sets. 
"He is a very athletic young man who can run the ball," he said. "Although he Is a true freshman, he Is very mature." 
For his part, Failla has made the transition from high school to college very well. Although he only played a short while against the Hoosiers, he was excited to be a part of the ac­tion. 
"I wasn't sure what was go­ing to happen," Failla said. "It was my first game, and even to 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••take a while," Cincinnati wide 
WELCOME STUDENTS Home of the Kicker 
Darts . Pool . Foosball . Pinball and 5 TV Screens 
Great Food! Dedicated to fun and good times 
THE HOTTEST C.D. JUKE BOX IN TOWN 
hiring 
2-7818 
Pavelich and a friend loaded up a truck last week and set out to drive from Minnesota to San Jose for training camp with the NHL expansion team. Pavelich was asleep in the passenger seat when his friend, whom he declined to identify, fell asleep at the wheel and lost control of the truck, which flipped over several times and came to rest on the highway. 
Pavelich crawled out of the pickup, found a flashlight, and managed to nag down a trac­tor-trailer truck that would have crashed into the over­turned vehicle. 
"It could have been a lot worse," Pavelich said. "It was fortunate for us that we got out with only a scratch on my 
get in only fot a short time was great. If I die tomorrow I can always say that I played at quarterback at Notre Dame. It was a thrill just to be on the sidelines." 
In addition, Vaas praised ju­nior walk-on Matt Johnson for his efforts on the Irish scout team. 
"He gives us a tremendous amount in that respect," he said. "He simulates the oppos­ing quarterbacks as well as anybody. He too can run or drop back and throw the ball." 
This season, Notre Dame will face many talented defensive teams. As a first-year quarter­back coach, Vaas plans on fo­cusing more on the psychologi­cal facet of the game to get around the opposing teams. 
"We spend a lot of time on the mental aspect of the game. We talk about voice inflection. For example, Rick has to con­trol the huddle with command in his voice. How he says things in the huddle radiates a certain aura about an individual. This game is about 25 percent phys­ical and the rest mental," he concluded. 
So without a definitive an­swer to who is the backup quarterback, it is evident that the Irish possess many quar­terbacks with outstanding qualities and abilities who could step up and fill the void if Mirer fell. 
"I was impressed with the outcome of the game," Vaas said. "All the quarterbacks did a commendable job for the time that they were in there. Just taking the snap has got to be a relief for those people and we'll just go from there. 
elbow. It think it was a good sign (that there were no major injuries). Something was look­ing over me there. Otherwise, it might have ended up a lot dif­ferent." 
Apparently, Paveli!;h's NHL career will end up a lot differ­ently than it appeared it would after he quit the North Stars. 
Sharks scout Larry Ross con­tacted Pavelich in June, but it took several weeks of negotiat­ing to get the 33-year-old center off the 500 acres he owns north of Lake Superior. 
"He wouldn't think of going into Philadelphia or New York or Boston. He wouldn't even think about it," Ross said. "But this is a good situation. He never said 'No,' but it had to be his way.... He has to have a contract before he comes and plays hockey. You'd think he's been out of hockey for three years or so that maybe he'd re­ceptive to anything, but he wasn't." 
Said Pavelich: "At first I kind of said, 'Forget it.' .But they kept getting back and back so I just ended up listening to the terms, and I was happy with them.... The most important thing is that I want to." 
Funderburke awaits season at Ohio St. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -When college basketball practice begins Oct. 15, it will be the start of a new season and a new start for Ohio State's Lawrence Funderburke. 
''I'm ecstatic about the up­coming season, about playing with these guys. Being out of organized ball has left me lack­ing," Funderburke said. ''I've got to learn the fundamentals all over again, really. I need to work on my defensive stance, get in better shape, absorb the system. But it's nothing major, because it will come with time." 
The 6-foot-9 Funderburke has had a tumultuous time the last five years. 
He transferred from Worthington Christian to Columbus Wehrle High School and led Wehrle to a state title in 
Business-as-usual for Cincinnati Bearcats 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The only good thing about having a week to think about an 81-0 loss is that it's not two weeks. 
"After that big of a loss,. it'll 
receiver Marlon Pearce said. "But we've got a game this weekend to redeem ourselves. Everybody's head is up." 
The Bearcats, who lost 81-0 to national power Penn State Saturday, face North Carolina this weekend at Chapel Hill, N.C., in the season opener for the Tar Heels. 
KATHY KIRIN 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY SEPT. 11 , 1991 
LOVE, MOM& 
DAD 

1988. Despite being one of the top prep recruits in the country, he was kicked off the Wehrle team early in the 1988-89 season. He then attended Indiana University, but quit the Hoosiers in mid-December 1989 and enrolled at OSU six months ago. 
He will become eligible to play when the Big Ten portion of Ohio State's schedule starts in January. 
Funderburke was not a part of the Ohio State contingent that played a series of exhibition games against in Europe in late August and early September. But he accepted his role. 
''I've learned to be patient," Funderburke said. "After the stuff I've been through, there's nothing that gets to me, nothing I can't blow off.'' 
Early workouts with the Buckeyes before they left for 
Pavelich, who led the Rangers in scoring in 1983-84 and scored 328 points in 353 NHL games, wants to play a lot bet­ter than he did at the start of the Sharks' training camp. The fact that he was lucky to be there didn't seem to matter. 
"It didn't feel so good (the first practice), but it will get a lot better," Pavelich said. "I tell you I'd rather be old and expe­rienced than young and have the legs. I still feel like I haven't missed too much.... I don't feei.., any older." 
After easily completing the team's five-mile run, Pavelich showed a deft passing touch several times in his first scrimmage. He even set up John Carter for a goal. 
Ross is sure Pavelich's come­back will be successful. Sharks general manager Jack Ferreira is certainly hopeful 
"If he's half the play~r he was, we'll be getting a heck of a hockey player," said Ferreira. 
All concerned understand Pavelich has plenty of rust to shake off. He played no hockey for more than two years before he started working out again in August. He last played for Dundee of the British Elite League during the 1988-89 sea­
Cincinnati's players and coaches are maintaining busi­ness-as-usual practices this week. But the memory lingers of the Penn State defeat, the worst in the 104-year history of the Cincinnati football program. 
Fans who expected something better this year from third-year Cincinnati coach Tim Murphy, after records of 1-9-1 and 1-10, weren't the only ones dis­appointed with the Penn State result. 
"It's discouraging," Bearcats linebacker Nate Dingle said. "If 

• 


Europe were Funderburke's ru-st supervised workouts since he left Indiana last December. 
Ohio State coach Randy Ayers said he is pleased with the form Funderburke has shown. 
"Lawrence has done a good job," Ayers said. "He's learning a whole new system while ev­erybody else know the plays, hut he's shown his talent and potential. This has been a nice chance for our staff to get a look at his strengths and weaknesses. 
.. 

"He has great range. He can go out to 20 feet and shoot the ball. Because of that, he pro­jects as a 4 (power forward), although I'm sure he'll have to play some 5 (center) for us at times. He's better as a face-up than as a post-up player, but he has the versatility to do the job posting up.' 
son. 
"I've been doing a lot of roller blading, that's real good," Pavelich said. "I skated with my 4-year-old daughter (during his retirement). I never skated with a stick. I'd just put her on my shoulders and skated around, that was the extent of my skat­ing." 
Pavelich kept himself In shape living the life typical of a Minnesota backwoodsman ­hunting, fishing and enjoying the rigors of the outdoors. 
"He'll just throw a canoe or a boat down, and he just goes off to the woods," said Sharks scout Bob Gernander, who has known Pavelich since he was playing pee-wee hockey. "He's more comfortable there than he would he in any city." 
That's why Pavelich brought two of his favorite outdoor companions with him to San Jose. 
"I couldn't leave my dogs be­hind," he said. "1 have two, and I train them. I got them when they were pups, and it's impor­tant that I develop them. I have them for hunting, pheasant and grouse." 
And to remind him of the back woods he'll return to when the season is over. 
you're looking at our team from the outside and see 81-0, that stinks. I don't blame anybody for saying that. But we're looking toward North Carolina now and concentrating on hav­ing a winning season." 
"We fear no one, but to be a good team, we've got to pull together," defensive tackle Ronnie Dixon said. "Winning is easy. Losing is the hard part. When you're losing, no one knows you." 
Murphy blamed the magnitude of the Penn State loss primarily on missed assignments. He said the Bearcats did not get pushed around physically, and that their mental mistakes can be corrected. 
Murphy has said repeatedly, since he arrived in 1989 to take over a program decimated by an NCAA probation, that it would take five years to turn things around. The Bearcats have had eight straight losing seasons. 
The Penn State defeat brought the Bearcats some rare na­tional exposure. The ESPN ca­ble network devoted extended attention to the loss when re­viewing games Saturday night. 
page 20 The Observer Wednesday, Septmeber 11, 1991 
Tyson denies charges, promoter says fight still on 
Marion County prosecutor -on or block it and strip Tyson of Tyson's behavior," the prosecu­accused of assaulting several 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP} -Mike Jeffrey Modisett said an arrest his boxing license for an arrest tor said. "But whether that rose people outside the ring since Tyson's career and his shot at warrant was issued and bail set involving "moral turpitude." to the level of criminal conduct 1987, when he became cham­regaining the heavyweight title at $30,000. He said Tyson David Hennessy, one of the was another question." pion. have been throWn into jeopardy would be allowed to surrender woman's lawyers, said she is Tyson's attorney, Vincent In 1987 he paid $105,000 in a by his indictment on charges he later this week. The case prob-upset by the prospect of Tyson Fuller, issued a statement settlement of an assault and raped a Miss Black America ably won't go to trial for several making millions while awaiting asserting Tyson's innocence. battery and assault with a contestant. months, be said. trial. The boxer is guaranteed John Solberg, a spokesman for deadly weapon case. 
The 25-year-boxer was The word from Tyson's pro-at least $15 million for the fight. -Don King, Tyson's promoter, Actress Robin Givens married charged Monday with rape, de­rooters, heavyweight champion "She continues to live with the said the fighter was unavailable Tyson in 1988 and filed for di­viate conduct and confmement Evander Holyfield's camp and nightmare while Mike Tyson for comment. vorce later that year after de­-the most serious in a string Caesars World Inc. is that the promotes himself for a multi­scribing their life together as a of allegations over the years Tyson-Holyfield title fight Nov. 8 million-dollar payday," Hen-Rival promoter Bob Arum living hell. that he has fondled or roughed in Las Vegas will go on. nessy said. asked the Nevada commission Last year, a jury in New York up women. The charges carfly "Tyson has a contractual and Another of the woman's at-to stop the fight and strip Tyson City ruled in favor of a woman up to 63 years in prison. constitutional right to fight and torneys, Edward Gerstein, said: of his license. who claimed Tyson grabbed her 
The pageant contestant ac­we intend to honor that," says "We're pleased the grand jurors Arum, who represents George breasts and behind at a disco. cused Tyson of attacking her promoter Dan Duva. weren't swaye_d by the Foreman, who lost to Holyfield She was awarded $100 in dam­July 19 in his room at an Indi­prominence of the defendant." in April, previously sued to stop ages. anapolis hotel. Tyson, who has However, Luther Mack, vice Modisett said Tyson forced the fight, claiming he had an Last month, Rosie Jones, Miss denied the allegation, was in chairman of the Nevada State himself on the woman when she agreement for a Foreman­Black America 1990, sued town to make promotional ap­Athletic Commission, says the refused his advances. Holyfield rematch. Tyson for $100 million, claiming pearances for the Indiana Black panel will meet to decide "There were other women Tyson, who bad a criminal he fondled her buttocks during Expo and the beauty pageant. whether to allow the fight to go who complained about Mr. record as a juvenile, has been the 1991 pageant. 
New 31-ounce bat making Boggs feel like he's playing Whiffleball 
BOSTON (AP} -With his complex mechanics in order and a bat so light it reminds him of stickball, Wade Boggs is battling for another AL batting title following two disappointing seasons. 
"Really, it's just like going out and playing Wifl1eball," the five­time batting champion for the Boston Red Sox says of his switch to a 31-ounce bat shortly before the All-Star break. 
After a career low .302 with "only" 187 hits and 87 walks in 1990, Boggs was determined to silence critics who thought, "I was all washed up." 
However, in mid-June he was batting just .299. At the start of July, he was barely over .300, a goal for most players but not for 
one with a .346 lifetime 
average. 
After missing a couple of 
games with a nagging back 
problem, Boggs put aside his 
32-ounce bat for a lighter 
model "because it felt like I was 
swinging a sledgehammer." 
His average climbed quickly. 
He was at .324 when he took the field as the starting third baseman for the sixth year in a row in the All-Star Game in Toronto. And, when he reached .340 recently, it was his highest -since Aug. 29, 1989, just before Kirby Puckett ended his four­
year reign as batting champ. 
Boggs has been on a tear in 
helping the Red Sox !!Orne back from 11 1/2 games behind to challenge Toronto for the AL East championship. 
While going 2-for-4 against Cleveland. on Monday night, be regained the lead in the batting race with a .339 mark. Hitting safley in 32 of his last 39 games, he was 58-for-154, a sizzling .377 clip. 
Boggs often contradicts himself as he tries to stay fo­cused, on an even keel. One day he says that he began concen­trating on winning the batting championship last April 5, opening day. A oouple of days later he said that taking the lead "doesn't matter to me." 
''I'm happy to be back to where I once was," he added, noting there was a long way to go in the season. "If you come to me after the last day of the season and tell me I'm leading the league, then that's some­thing." 
Last spring Boggs insisted the key to regaining his old form was "to stay healthy." 
He blamed two costly injuries for his 1990 failure to get 200 hits and score 100 runs for the first time since his rookie year in 1982. He also missed reaching the century mark in bases on balls for the first time since 1986. 
Boggs said that an injury to his left wrist in early May "had me all messed up at the plate for about seven weeks." Then h~ suffered a broken toe in August that affected his swing. He added that if he could get 187 hits and bat over .300 with those injuries, he should do much better if healthy. 
And he's remained healthy, missing just a handful of games because of an aching back and a pulled groin muscle. That's enabled him to get 164 hits and 87 walks with 25 games re­maining, including 14 at home, where he's hitting .393 (88­224). 
Evidence that Boggs is back is demonstrated by rival pitchers, who have walked him in­tentionally 24 times. He is headed for a major-league record for leading the league in intentional walks five consecu­tive years. 


NOTRE DAME COUNCIL 
on 

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
ORIENTATION MEETING 
for ALL students: *interested in joining the NJ)CIBD *who signed up on Activities Night at ND and SMC AND *who are retum members from last year 
Date: THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
Place: ROOM 220 HAYES-HEALY 
..., Time: 7:30p.m. 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE!!! 


Wednesday, September 11, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Hapless Indians draw smallest crowd in 17 years against Bosox 

It's not just anotherwayfor you
to spendyour money. It's away to help you save it. 

CLEVELAND (AP) -There arc several hundred Boston Red Sox fans in the Cleveland area. Otherwise, no one at all might have showed up for their makeup game against the Cleveland Indians. 
A crowd of 1,695 people, smallest at Cleveland Stadium in 17 years, watched. the Red Sox beat the Indians 4-3 Monday night In a makeup of an April 19 rainout. Special discount prices, offering any seat in the 74,000-seat stadium for the general admission price of $4.50, weren't enough to lure Clevelanders to a game that wasn't on the original schedule. 
MWe were trying to compare It to a spring training crowd," Boston's Jody Reed said. MBut I think there's more fans In spring training." 
The mammoth dimensions of Cleveland Stadium made the crowd appear smaller still. Pockets of fans were clustered behind each of the dugouts, and the rest were scattered loosely among the upper and lower decks. The shouts of fans echoed back from the empty center field bleachers. 
The Red Sox, arguably the hottest team in baseball, took precautions against letting the size of the crowd fool them into taking the game too lightly. They were seeking their sixth straight win as they pursued AL East-leading Toronto. 
The win was their 23rd in the last 30 games. MWe were talking It up on the 
bench all night," manager Joe Morgan said. "We weren't going to sleep, at any cost. One guy in the stands says something, you hear it all over the park. That keeps you awake." 
The crowd was the smallest here since 1,564 showed up for a game against Oakland on April 24, 1974. 
Indians manager Mike Hargrove, however, said he re­membered a smaller crowd in 1981, when Cleveland took on the Kansas City Royals in a makeup game the day after the season ended. Kansas City needed to win the game to qual­ify for the specially structured playoffs after that strike­shortened season. 
The announced crowd that day was 3,006. Hargrove was the Indians' first baseman at the time. 
"If there were 500 people there, somebody was padding the total," Hargrove said. 
The few who witnessed Monday's game actually got a good show, and the pro-Red Sox crowd went home happy. Boston blew a 3-0 lead when Cleveland scored three runs in the seventh to tie it, but Tom Brunansky hit a sacrifice fly in the ninth inning that won it for the Red Sox. 
Tony Pena slid home safely barely ahead of catcher Eddie Taubensee's lunging tag on Brunansky's fly ball to shallow center. 
The loss was Cleveland's fifth straight and 93rd for the sea­son. 
"We needed to win this game," said Boston starter Joe Hesketh, who pitched well but got no decision. "Not taking anything away from the Cleveland Indians, but if we expect to have a chance to win this race, we have to beat these teams." 
Hesketh said he didn't let the empty stadium bother him. 
"You have to concentrate, whether there are 600 people in the crowd or 35,000 people in the crowd," he said. 
Brunansky, however, was dis­gusted. 
"I played in front of crowds like that at Minnesota," he said. "I feel sorry for the players of Cleveland to have to play In front of crowds like that. Major league baseball doesn't deserve crowds like that." 
Now, get the Card and get Student Privileges. Special savings createdjust for you. Only from American Express. 
If you· think the American Express"' Card is simply another way to buy things, we(i like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you save. 
Become a Student Cardmember today, and you'll automatically get American Express"' Student Privileges,~ our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the money you spend. 
•••--distance company. 
Continental ~~ 
3ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT A PRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 
Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: 
Each certificate couldsave you as much as 1250 over regular ContinentalAirlinesfares on a coast-to-coast tnp. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES" OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERYMONTH FOR AYEAR 
also help you save on your long­For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional couldsave more than $44 benefits of Cardmembership-like when you enroll and use the personal attention you can get the American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives. And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in 
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
change your current long-MlCJ 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 
Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the savingsyou need on the things you want-a sure way to make the most of 

a college budget. This year alone, Student Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. 
You'll find your certificates in each issue of our exclusive student magazine, American Express"' Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today. 
AGOOD INVESTMENT, A GREAT VALUE 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All of which goes to show that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways 
for you to spend your money, there are few that help you save it. Apply today. ~ 


An Amencan EllJ)f8SS c~ 
•To be eligible, you must be approved by December 31, 1991. "A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 Is equal to the charges for a domestic 30-minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by 
December31, 1991. It! 1991 Amrrican Express Travel Relaled Sc:rvicesCompany, Inc. 
Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 
........... , ........................
······························-···· ·····-· ··••4• .... , , ........ ,-4 ...... ~'.

F ­
! I 
I page 22 The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
SMC volleyball looks for first win 
By KYLIE COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will host North Park College Wednesday at 7:00 
p.m. The Belles, under first­year head coach Julie Scbroeder-Biek, are anxious to improve upon their 0-5 record with this game. 
This will be the team's first home game of the season after losing both of its matches at the Kalamazoo Invitational last weekend. The Belles also fell to Saint Xavier in their season opener last Wednesday. 
"We played some close matches but we couldn't pull otT the win," said Athletic Director Dr. Jo-Ann Nester. 
North Park College is a NCAA Division III school. 
"It is has a decent team and it should be our first win," Nester said. 
Two key players who ranked in nationals last year are re­turning again this season. Karen Lorton, a 6-3 junior, returns as the middle blocker and hitter. Sophomore Michelle Martino returns to set­ter, where she led the Belles in assists last year. 
Two transfer students joined the Belles this season who may become key players in future games. Mary Wheeler, a sophomore from Nazareth College, has been playing mid­dle hitter and block. Junior Laura Ponowicz, a transfer student from Holy Cross Junior College, has been playing well also according to Nester. 
"Once we get a win under our belt, we'll start to have a good season. Julie's a wonderful coach. The stats look much better than the win-loss record shows." Nester said. 
Schroeder-Biek was assistant coach of Saint Mary's volleyball for two years. Before coming to Saint Mary's she was head coach at. Southwestern Michigan College for two years. At Saint Mary's she still holds the following five statistical records: kills per game, hitting percentage, total blocks, block assists, and blocking average. 
Kenyon Meyer ready for return to NCAA's 
Men's soccer co-captain anticipates upbeat season 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
In order to improve on a rough 4-11-3 record last year, second-year Irish men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli is relying on his first recruiting class-13 freshmen out of the 25 roster spots-to provide significant contributions. 
But perhaps more impor­tantly, Kenyon Meyer, along with fellow senior co-captain Brent Hoffman, will be called on to provide leadership to ini­tiate the talented group of freshmen into the realm of top collegiate competition. 
These two factors-youth and experience-seemed to mesh in the team's dominating (3-0} performance against the club team of the University of Michigan on Saturd'ay. However, the Irish were shut out by the visiting Midwestern Collegiate Conference Loyola Ramblers last night, 1-0. 
"The freshman will play a big role this year," said Meyer. "At least half of the starters will be freshmen. But the upperclass­men will have to he leaders, which is an even bigger role this year." 
Meyer is familiar with the challenges of adjusting as a freshman. 
"When I came to Notre Dame I was invited to try out, but they offered no guarantees," Meyer related. 
"My freshman year, seven se­niors started. It was a struggle everyday in practice. It was a frustrating season, but I ap­preciated it. After not playing my first year, I learned not to take anything for granted when I the opportunity arose sopho­more year," Meyer continued. 
"A lot of the freshmen will immediately he put in the spot­light this year. I understand how difficult it is and I hope they can respond," said Meyer. 
By developing many of the underclassmen last season, Berticelli now has a solid foun­dation of experienced players on the team. But he also has confidence in his core of younger players. 
Three years ago when Meyer 
came to Notre Dame, the soccer 
program offered just two full 
scholarships. It now offers 
eight. 
"Coach Berticelli bas an 
ext:ellent system of recruiting," 
said Meyer. "He scouts the 
national teams and the Olympic 
development team to find the 
same caliber of people we are 
competing against. The 
program is certainly run more 
professionally now." 
• At a height of 6-2, Kenyon 
lr ....................... . 
and helped me a lot as a player. There was a lot of good compe­tition over there and it gave me a new outlook on the game," Meyer said. 
Meyer is also familiar with the responsibilities of co-cap­tain. As a senior at St. Xavier High School in Louisville, he captained his team through an undefeated regular season be­fore losing in the regional fi­nals. 
"It's a lot different from any other year. In the past, I just prepared myself to play. Now that I'm counted on to be a team leader, my play should be an automatic," be said. 
"Everybody on this team has something to prove," Meyer stated. "My freshman year we were rated seventh in the coun­try and made it to the NCAA's. But no one on this year's team really participated. Now, ev­erything we've worked for comes down to this season." 
Meyer and the Irish squad have set some plausible goals for the season. High atop the list are going undefeated in home games, winning the MCC regular season title, and earn­ing an NCAA tournament bid. 
"We're certainly capable of achieving our goals. But we have a difficult schedule (including three top 20 teams-Indiana, St. Louis, and Evansville}. It should he a trial by fire especially for our 
r_re_s_h_m_e_n••" sa_i_d__._ 
SPORlSBRIEFS 

•Men's 
and women's track and field: A meeting will be held for anyone interested in participating on Thursday September 12 at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 

•Riding 
lessons are available to anyone interested through the ND/SMC Equestrian club. Call Jen at 283-1715 or Larisse at 289-7829. Lessons start this week. 

•Any 
grad student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics hegins Monday at Angela Athletic Facility At St. Mary's. 

•Hapkldo/Tae 
Kwon Do dub meets Mondays and Wednesdays 5:30-7:30 in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. For more information contact Sean at 3457. 

•The 
NO Rowing Club invites all students interested in rowing to attend novice practices. Practices this week will he held today, Thursday, and Friday, starting at 4:30 p.m. on Holy Cross Field. No experience is necessary. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 6:30 to 


8:30 p.m. and Sunday 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will he playing miniature golf tonight. Meet at 6:30 p.m. at the library circle. Newcomers welcome. 

•The 
water polo team will have practice tonight at the Rolfs Aquatic Center from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. Newcomers welcome. 


Hurdler Kingdom faces tough road 
PITTSBURGH (AP} -World record hurdler Roger Kingdom is trying to recover from the most debilitating knee injury an athlete can suffer. 
Kingdom, 29, had the torn an­terior cruciate ligament in his right knee replaced with an­other tendon last week. 
A torn anterior cruciate liga­mentis probably the most sen­ous injury an athlete may face, said Freddie Fu, the University of Pittsburgh doctor who per­formed the operation. 
The ligament runs alongside the knee and prevents buckling. Fu was optimistic Kingdom will compete next year. 
"If it were you or me, it would be much harder," Fu said. "But you cannot underestimate the willpower of athletes." 
Kingdom's knee is bandaged and braced. He may begin run­ning in a pool in about ·two 
"Roger feels comfortable with the program he is in," Fu said. 
Kingdom is trying to become the first athlete to win goJa medals in the 110-meter hur­dles in three consecutive Olympics. He won at Los Angeles in 1984 and Seoul in 1988. 
He set the world record of 
12.92 seconds in August 1989. 
More athletes are recovering from anterior cruciate ligament operations, hut the rehabilita­tion is slow and difficult. 
Penn State running hack Blair Thomas couldn't play in 1988, eight months after undergoing the surgery, and he didn't play again until 1989. Thomas was nine years younger than Kingdom when he had surgery. 
To run in the 1992 Olympics, Kingdom must qualify at the 
U.S. team trials in New Orleans June 19-28, about nine months 


Kenyon Meyer 
Meyer is an aggressive, physical target, owning an advantage on head shots. He even emerged from the bottom of the pile in last night's brief brouhaha. 
Meyer plays an instrumental role as director of the Irish midfield attack. Last season, Meyer accomplished a rare feat, tying the team high in goals (seven}, interestingly, as a defensive midfielder. 
"The way Coach Berticelli's system works, all ten field play­ers have a lot of freedom. I feel one of my strengths is getting in position without the hall and scoring goals," Meyer ex­plained. 
Another asset Meyer boasts as a player is his continental soccer experience. He partici­pated in club soccer in London during the second semester of his sophomore year. 
~"-I_t_w_a_s__a_g~r_e_a_t_e_x_p_e_r_ie_n_c_e 
David Bamard '91 (ND) Mary Ann Cenede1la '91 (ND) Scott Esposito 1 89 (ND) Jill Fitzgerald '91 (ND) Ursula Garzla '91 (SMC) Si110n Herbert '91 (HD) 
We have careers in: 
w~e~eks~·--------------------~~~--------------------, 

and Information Systems. For more inforaation please attend one of the following events. Don't forqet to sign up for interviews through career & Placeaent. 
* 
Career & Placement Kick-off for Marketing,Manageaent, and Finance Wednesday, septeaber 11, 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 

* 
Beta Alpha Psi Meet the Firas HightWednesday, Septellber 11, 6:00 -9:00 p.m. 

* 
Finance ClUb Meet the FiniS HightTUesday, Septeaber 17, 6:00-8:30 p.a. 

* 
career ' Placeaent Kick-off for Arts and Letters TUesday, Septeaber 17, 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 

* 
career Fair Sponsored by Joint Engineering Council ' Society of Wa.en EngineersWednesday, Septeaber 25, 11:00 a.a. -4:00 p.a. 

* 
Meet Baxter Hight Sponsored by Barter Healthcare Corporation Monday, October 28, 7:00 -9:00 p.a. 



COME JOIN OUR TEAM 
Mary Kay (Fanninq) Ladone '88 (ND) Amy Raczkowski '91 (ND} Lou Mayle '88 (NO) John Souter '88 (HD) Kathy (Balter) Miller '88 (ND) Dana Toqni '89 (HD} Scott Hiller '90 (HD) Jill Tomko '89 (SHC) J~ Post '89 (ND) Guy Weisaantel 1 90 (ND) Jennifer Racine '91 (SMC) Dan Walsh '89 (HD) 
Accounting/Finance, SalesfMarlcetinq, Operations 
~ 
Wednesday, September 11, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
ACROSS 31 Father of 60 Single Theseus 63 Test7 p.m. Marketing Placement Night, in Hesburgh Library 1 Figs. person 35 Biblical tower: 64 An "All About Auditorium. 4 Plays tricks Gen. 35:21 Eve" actress9 Small branch 38 Seamstress's 65 Archon, e.g. 
13 Elia concealed 67 Elbe tributary 15 Kind of acid 
interlacement 

as Father, to an
LECTURES 16 Possess 
40 Some trousers Arab17 Dawns, in ltalia 42 Devon river 69 Peloponnesian
Wednesday 18 He wrote a life of Jesus 43 Actress Gia city 70 Camera part 
12:15 p.m. Lecture: " Household Budgeting," Ken Milani, 19 Level 
20 Cryptesthetic 44 Originators 71 Heal
Understanding and Managing Family Resources. Room 121, 
people 47 Uninteresting 721nclined
llayes-Healy. ' 
22 Caterpillar's 73 Hwy.
48 Napoleon's St. " . . " hair Helena doctor 
12:15 p.m. Lecture: Keepmg Bodtes and Souls Together, Kate 23 scowchow 
49 Ranch in

Shoupe, professor. Stapelton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's· 24 Pastry-loving DOWN
"Giant"

College. lad 51 Like a certain 1 Fail to 26 Borough near Marquand hero harmonize 
3:45 p.m. Lecture: " The Quest for Metallic Hydrogen," Isaac Pittsburgh 2 Ancient: Comb.
53 Attic

Silvera, Harvard University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. 28 "... all do fade form
as--": lsa. 57 Queens 
3 Fossil resin 
64:6 stadium
7 p.m. Lecture: " Ford's Strategy to Compete in the 1990's and the 4 Grate Positioning of the Lincoln-Mercury Brand," Stephen Lyons, Ford s Iowa college Motor Co. Auditorium, Hayes-Healy Center. town
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 An evergreen 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Lost Dogs and the Laboratory: The Politics of 
7 Related in a way Animal Experimentation in 20th Century America," Susan Lederer. 8 Beethoven 27 N.J. team 41 Body fluids 55 Happening Hoom 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. products 
29 Actor McCowen 45Work by 14 56 Concise 
9 Book of short Down, with 57 Counterfeit
30 Novel by 14

stories by 14 "The": 1952
Down, with sa Fla. sound Down
MENU "The" 46 Droop 59 A father-in-law 
10 Flutter 32 List abbr. so Spigot ofEsau
Notre Dame 11 Mrs.-, sister 
61 Anabaena33 Bruins' inst. 52 Habituate

~::::..j.:~+.=-+=--.&iiiioi-::+=+:-+:::-1 of A. E. S. 
54 Sir-de 62 Mexican city 34 Iranian leader 
~~:+.::t:-+:':1 12 Roman clan
Veal Parmesan Coverley && 0-U connection 
3!5 "-ridente,"14 U.S. authorNoodles Homanoff Rossini aria born on Apr. 26,Baked Whitefish 1914 36 Gloom's partner Answers to any three clues in this Swedish Meatballs 

~,;..+.c-+:-:-t::-1 21 Salt for 37 Poilu's weapon · puzzle are available by touch-tone Escoffier . 39 Balzac's "Le phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each L.:.....L.;:..J..:~...L..:...J 25 Legal thing --Goriot" minute).
Saint Mary's 
Italian Meatball Sandwich Doli Bar Turkey Empanadas Spinach Cheese Casserole 
THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER 
I'RIMN. !'CREAI"II I THOUiitHT If Ml~itT 
I WOUUJN'T 

HE.LP HE.K WOKK·CXJT 
KNOW.

THE INHI8/TIOI'I.S Siti 
~fl!fTH/IT~
AU li!IRL ornouc Pf?.£1' , 
5cHoot..6HE • ttrrt::NOeD. --... 




Roommates Elvis and Salman Rushdie sneak a quick look at the outside world. 
• 


TONIGHT 
Sleep all day l':lfly all ni~ht.
THURSDAY 
Never ~row old. Never die. It's fun to lx· a \·ampin:.
Tif~ <oJA.~.jy T~~JA. oJ' -fif~ 


! 
8 AND 10:30 PM 
LOST·BOYS OO(p~@@O~@ ~@~@:00 ADMISSION: $2 ~® ,:~·~·; ... ~::::~:.~~1:~.?.;' CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
8pm Washington Hall 
$3 Tickets at Le---•·•no Info. Desk FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
• "'0 ! c

'I'" 



Sports 
page 24 Wednesday, September 11, 1991 
Irish men's soccer falls to Loyola in home opener, 1-0 
By JASON KELLY short in the end. It marked Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's first loss to Loyola in 13 matches dating Notre Dame's men's soccer 
back to 1979. team kept Loyola on the ropes 
The luck of the Irish simply but couldn't apply the knockout 
wasn't there Tuesday night as punch in a 1-0 season opening 
the Ramblers stopped several loss Tuesday night at Moose 
scoring opportunities. Krause Stadium. 
"We created a lot of good op­portunities to finish," com­
More than 500 fans turned out to watch the Irish dominate 
mented Coach Mike Berticelli, their Midwestern Collegiate 
"but tonight we were just un­lucky."
Conference rival only to fall just 
Loyola wasn't so unlucky as midfielder Jeff Kreikmeyer put the Ramblers on the board off
Women's soccer 
an assist from Mark Strothkamp at the 28:32 mark
ties Dayton, 0-0 
of the first half. It turned out to be the only goal they would 
Special to the Observer 
need despite Notre Dame's re­lentless offensive attack. The Notre Dame women's 
The Irish retaliated late in 
soccer team tied Dayton 0-0 in the first half, but an off-sides 
a Tnesday afternoon match in 
call nullified the goal. Another Dayton, Ohio. 
scoring opportunity failed early 
Both teams had plenty of in the second half as junior
scoring chances, as the Irish (1­
Kevin Pendergast's penalty shot 0·1) fired off 20 shots on goal to 
couldn't find the net. That was the net and we didn't." played with a great deal of main hopeful about the season18 for the Lady Flyers. 
just the first of many second There were many bright maturity," Berticelli noted. ahead. Berticelli believes he, But the two half scoring opportunities that spots for the Irish, including the The intensity level was an­has the foundation for an out­
goalkeepers-Notre Dame's 
the Irish failed to convert in a play of the highly touted other bright spot for the Irish in standing team, but it will takeMichelle Lodyga and Dayton's 
game that they controlled 
freshmen. Rookie goalkeeper the opener. Despite the mis­time for the team to reach their 
Christine Medwig-came up 
throughout. 
Bert Bader of Dallas led the fortune that they faced full potential. It will also takewith big efforts to stymie the "We totally dominated the way, turning back nine Loyola throughout the game, along time for the 15 freshmen, onetwo offenses. Lodyga notched game," said Berticelli. "You can shots, but he was just one of with some controversial calls, of Notre Dame's strongest re­
seven saves, while Medwig be well-prepared and play a 
several impressive freshmen. they battled until the final cruiting classes ever, to gaintallied nine. 
great game, but you still have 
"We had nine or ten buzzer. the experience necessary to beto put the ball in the back of freshmen playing and they all Despite the loss the Irish re-successful on this level. 
Lack of ND defense, Michigan's Howard concern Holtz 
By DAVE DIETEMAN "This is an excellent Michigan Anthony Carter-Howard re­whole bag of tricks in Boston Sports Editor football team. Offensively, they minds me a lot of Carter. last Saturday. have so manv wP.anons. Their Howard is exceptional, no' "This is a somewhat different 
After Notre Dame's 49-27 offensive line is gigantic and doubt about it. Michigan team this year," re­trouncing of Indiana, there also very good. The tight ends "Howard creates real prob­marked Holtz, "but not much. were a good number of revelers are solid. Desmond Howard lems. We've taken great pride Moeller is too innovative of a who stood ready to hoist a reminds me of Rocket Ismail, in the way we've covered kick­coach to be as standard as theytwelfth national championship and Elvis Grbac has hurt us the offs in the past. I am concerned were against Boston College.banner in South Bend. past two years. Ricky Powers is about the kicking game now. I He wants to run the football, Lou Holtz, as should be ex­also a legitimate threat at tail­think that we've got a great but he does it with a one-back pected, was not among those back." punter (Craig Hentrich), but offense. He will throw more bleary-eyed hopefuls, especially After the Irish defense sur­we'll have to do some things than he did, he will run screens since he had his sights set on rendered 418 yards to Indiana, like last week-onside kicks, and he'll show us some re­this week's matchup with the Holtz has good reason to be fake punt passes. We'll have to verses. Moeller has a more Blue and Maize. concerned with Notre Dame's do things like this to gain an wide-open style than Bo "I don't know if we've ever ability to contain the potentially edge in the kicking game, Schembechler did, but this is
"Rocket" Ismail. 

taken a football team into a explosive Wolverine offense. Before we thought. that we the best Michigan team since
"Howard is at the same level 
more difficult environment than Worst of all, receiver and re­could win the kicking game by I've been at Notre Dame. They
as the Rocket," commented
this one," stated Holtz at his turn specialist Desmond getting the ball in Rocket's will not only do more things to
Holtz. "That doesn't diminish
Tuesday afternoon press con­Howard, who jump-started a hands." us than they have in the past,
the amount of respect that I
ference. "When you go out on floundering Michigan squad to At any rate, Holtz made very but they have more weapons."
have for Rocket. Rocket is
the road, the first thing you do victory over Boston College last clear that he did not believe • • •
tremendous. One person who
is pack your defense, and we weekend, may very well be the Gary Moeller and the Offensive lineman Aaron
caught my eye, although I
don't even have a defense yet. second coming of Raghib Wolverines had emptied their
never coached against him, is 
see HOLTZ/ page 18 

Three still in picture as Mirer's backup 
By EILEEN McGUIRE quarterback also was not des­in and get a chance to show ignated either. Will the situation what you can do."
Sports Writer 

be the same in 1991? Senior George Poorman saw 
• 
"I hope that is a question that action in nine games at free
One of the major questions 
never has to be answered," said safety his junior year. The Irish
about the quarterbacks this fall 
first-year quarterback coach will keep him as a backup
is: who exactly is the backup 
Peter Vaas. "Right now we have quarterback, though, after his
quarterback? 

three people who are very spring game performance, inThis question was highlighted much in the picture, depending which he rushed for 15 yards
during the controversy over the 
on the situation." and passed for 14. 
arrest of incumbent starter Rick 
As a freshman, Kevin "If we're in a situation where 
Mirer. The ensuing turmoil, 
McDougal played in two games we have to control the ball and 
however, did not appear to hurt 
in 1990 against Purdue and Air we need a hard, competitive,
his confidence-either in 
Force. During the Air Force experienced guy in there, I can
himself or his team-as the 
game, he led Notre Dame on a see George Poorman coming
Irish defeated Indiana 
50-yard touchdown march. into the picture very quickly,"
University 49-27 on Saturday. 
"Kevin McDougal is a young Vaas said. 
"It (the game) was good for man who is very adept at Although Poorman has not
our confidence, but we expect 
throwing a football. If we're in played quarterback since high
to go out and play well," said 
a situation where Rick is hurt school, he feels he could makeMirer. 
and we have to come from be­the transition from free safetyMirer's performance (11-for­hind, Kevin would b-e the first to quarterback where he is
17, 209 yards) only built upon 
player to come to my mind (to needed this year. 
the success he enjoyed last sea­
put in)," Vaas said. 
"It has been a long time, and

.son. In hi<> first vear as the first­
Although he SliW only limited 
I'm still learning," Poorman

string quarterback, Mirer 
action in the Indiana game, 
stated. "I just have to stay fo­

performed better than ex­
McDougal was excited to show 
cused and concentrate, and

pected, completing 55 percent 
the coaches what he is capable watch Rick because he knows
of his passes in leading the Irish 
of. 
what he's doing. I'm trying to
to a 9-3 season. 

"It felt pretty · good," 
have a good time with'it." 

Still, he was an iron man in McDougal said. "It's what you
1990, playing in all 12 games. 
work for for a long time, to get see BACKUP/ page 19
In addition, last year's backup 








