
~~..~£~e 


.Q·&·
. 1!1'--­
1142-1992 

server
Sl HIUICENTI NNIAL 
Samt Marx's College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 23 
WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 25, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
US News & World Report ranks Saint Mary's 3rd 
By AMY GREENWOOD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
U.S. News and World Report ranked Saint Mary's College third among midwestern re­gional colleges and universities In Its annual survey of MAmerica's Best Colleges." 
For the fifth consecutive year, SMC has been included in the survey's top 15 of the Midwest regional category. The college moved up one spot this year from last year's fourth place position. 
The magazine groups SMC among regional colleges and universities that generally award more than half their 
bachelor's degrees in two or more professions and combine the professional programs found at large state universities with intimate settings of small liberal arts colleges. The schools have been divided by region: North, South, Midwest, and West. Many of the 558 schools in this category offer graduate degrees. 
The survey, published in the Sept. 30 Issue, includes 1,373 four-year schools. Statistics gathered by the colleges and the results of U.S. News' survey of academic reputations among 2,425 responding college presi­dents, deans and admissions directors were combined to rank the schools in their re­spective categories. 
The report analyzed five key attributes to determine each school's rank: reputation, se­lectivity, faculty resources, and student satisfaction. Each at­tribute carries a different weight. Reputation, selectivity, and faculty resources each con­tributed twenty-five percent to the overall score. Financial re­sources counted for twenty percent and student satisfaction was worth five percent. 
With an overall score of 92.9, SMC ranked first in student satisfaction, seventh in financial resources, 12th in faculty support, 17th in academic rep­utation, and 20th in student se­lectivity. 
For the second year in a row, SMC ranked first in student satisfaction. Student satisfac­tion was determined by the school's ability to graduate the students It admits as freshmen. Ninety percent of SMC freshmen continued on as sophomores last year. 
wThe terrific faculty and nu­merous support services ac­count for SMC's high retention rate," said Public Information Officer, Brett McLaughlin. wSaint Mary's is a caring com­munity that reaches out to it's students." 
SMC ranked seventh in the fi­nancial resources category 

falling from the number 4 spot last year. Financial resources was determined by the 1990 dollar total of Its educational and general expenditures, di­vided by Its total enrellment. Financial Aid proves to be a major consideration in this cat­egory. According to Mary Nuc­ciarone, director of Financial Aid, forty-four percent of SMC students received need-based aid for the 1991-92 school year. A combination of things make up determinations for selectiv­ity. Rejection rates, average Scholastic Aptitude and Ameri­can College Testing Assessment Tests, and high school class standings are included in the 
see RANK/ page 4 


Havin' a ball! The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
These Notre Dame athletes enjoy a competitive game of volleyball by Stepan Center yesterday. 
Finances keep ND from top 25 

By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
For the second year in a row money seems to have kept Notre Dame off U.S. News and World Report's list of Top 25 national universities. 
The University's yearly spending per student -over $18,000 -places it behind other schools on the list. The discrepancy is enough to limit ND to the first quartile, the best of four subgroupings for national universities not in­cluded in the magazine's Sept. 30 issue top 25. 
Harvard tops the magazine's rankings again this year, fol­lowed by Yale, Stanford, Princeton and California Insti­tute of Technology. MIT, Duke, Dartmouth, Columbia and the University of Chicago round out the top ten. 
Notre Dame's ranking has varied during the five years the magazine has compiled the top 25 list. The University was not included the first year, but ranked 18th in 1988. In 1989 Notre Dame fell to 23rd. 
This marks the second year in 

Unites Nations inspectors still held in Iraq 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Iraq on Tuesday detained 44 
U.N. inspectors for the second day in a row and accused them of being CIA spies as the crisis over Iraqi compliance with U.N. cease-fire terms appeared to be coming to a climax. 
Troops surrounded the in­spectors, who parked their cars In a circle to protect themselves and the videotapes of docu­ments said to show details of Iraq's secret nuclear weapons program, its foreign suppliers and top Iraqi directors. 
The U.N. Security Council late Tuesday demanded that Iraq Immediately release the weapons inspectors, but in a television interview from Bagh­dad, the chief inspector said there was no sign Iraq was lift­ing the siege. 
President Bush condemned Baghdad's "unacceptable be­havior," and warned Saddam Hussein not to "miscalculate" as he did during the Gulf War. 
"We don't want to see any more anguish Inflicted on the Iraqi people, but overriding that is the International community's determination that these resolutions be fully complied with," Bush said in New York. 
Underlining U.S. displeasure, a senior Pentagon official said 100 Patriot missiles and 1,300 troops would be sent to Saudi Arabia to ease that nation's concern over rising tensions in the Persian Gulf region. 
And the 15-member Security Council unanimously adopted a statement insisting that Iraq release the inspectors and allow them to take whatever doc­uments they feel they need. 
Council statements do not carry the weight of resolutions, which may be enforced under international law. The council was expected to wait for Iraq's response before deciding whether to accept U.S. offers of helicopter gunships and war­planes to accompany U.N. in­spection teams in Iraq. 
Late Tuesday, Iraq sent a let­ter to French Ambassador Jean-Bernard Merimee in which It agreed to allow U.N. inspectors to use helicopters for their Inspections, a major demand of the Security Council, said British Ambassador David Hannay said. 
But in a telephone interview from Baghdad at about 8 p.m. EDT, chief inspector David Kay said the Iraqi still surrounded the inspection team. 
Iraq sent another letter to Merimee on Tuesday complain­ing about the behavior of the inspectors, In particular Kay, who is an American. 
At a news conference in Baghdad, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz accused the team leader of being Man officer of the U.S. lntellience service," the official Iraqi News Agency reported. 
Kay called the charge Mcompletely ridiculous and un­true." Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams called it a Mludicrous allegation." 
As for Iraqi charges that they had had "trouble" from his team, Kay said, that if his team had a problem "it is because we are very close to rmding out the true scope and nature of the Iraqi program." 
see IRAQ/ page 4 
a row that Notre Dame is not in the top 25. 
MI was not surprised," said Kevin Rooney, director of Un­dergraduate Admissions. wWe're not likely to go back on (the top 25) until they change the criteria." 
The magazine rated 1;373 schools in 14 categories. College presidents are polled and determine schools' academic reputation based on four cate­gories: selectivity, faculty re­sources, financial resources and student satisfaction. 
The University boasts a 3 7 percent acceptance rate with an average SAT of 1260. Eighty percent of the incoming fresh­men graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school class, according to the profile. 
Notre Dame's freshman re­tention and graduation rates are also among the best in the country, at 97 and 91 percent respectively. 
MClearly, our student body is one of the best in the nation," said Denny Moore, director of Public Relations. 
Notre Dame's poor ranking in the financial resources category appears to be hindering Its ranking, Rooney said. A school's financial resources is determined by dividing the total value of educational and gen­eral expenditures by its total full-time enrollment. 

Notre Dame spends just $18,852 per student, compared to $50,677 by Harvard and $106,611 by California Institute of Technology. 
win essence, they're saying, 'the more you spend, the better you are,'" said Moore. 
The focus on spending Is ironic, he said, because in the same issue the magazine claims to be concerned with the rising cost of education and MThe Age of Scarcity" that is plaguing colleges across the country. 
Notre Dame's success in admitting and graduating tal­ented students for less money should boost, not hinder, Its ranking, according to Moore. 
Mit seems t.Q ill"-~~·re doinl! a better job, one of the best jobs in the country," he said. 
That a school with the 15th highest endowment in the coun­try would have such a poor 
see MONEYI page 4 


P.W. residents, led by Trish Gray, participate in the slowest bike race contest last night. This event is one of many during the dorm's "Queen week, • as the women prepare for their first SYR of the year. 

----~ -~ 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy and 
cool today with a 
c~ance of showers. 
Highs in the lower 
60's. Cool Thurs­
day with highs in 
the lower 50's. 
TEMPERATURES: 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Be careful and protect youself against crime 
"Be careful. Be careful! Be careful!!" I know we have heard it all before, but for some reason, we can't seem to get away from these ever-present words of caution. 

sincerely hesitated 
Ann Marie about writing yet another Hartman column about such an N c over-talked issue as eg~ito~py 
campus crime, but in light ------­of what happened to a friend last week, I decided to put my apathy and indecision aside. 
Last Thursday when I returned from work, I learned that my roommate's backpack had been taken from North Dining Hall. 
My reaction was far from apathy when the victim. of such a predicament was my roommate. You may think that the term "victim" is too melodramatic to describe her situation, but she was indeed an individual who had been violated. 
Her scenario was not an uncommon one. She had gone to a late dinner and left her backpack in th~ shelves where IDs are checked. When she went to retrieve her stuff after she ate, her backpack, and three others, was gone. 
She not only lost her backpack, but two pricey engineering books, a theology text, a calculator, a checkbook, an ID, her keys and a detex, as well. 
About three hours after the theft had been reported to Security, an unknown woman from the West Side of South Bend called to say that she had found my roomie's check­book in her front yard. 
As relieved as my roommate was to hear the checkbook had been recovered, she was disgusted at the thought that some random individual had rummaged through her things and aimlessly tossed her belongings out the window. 
Security, who was wonderful through the entire ordeal, was concerned about the lo­cation in which the checkbook had been found. They assumed that the thieves had only been interested in selling the books to local second-hand shops, but suggested we be on the safe side and change the lock on our dorm-room door, as well as have new detex cards issued to the entire dorm. 
By the time my roommate has re-bought everything she lost, she will have spent well over $200. Considering this is the second time around in making such purchases, she will have spent a month's worth of her summer earnings. What an expensive waste. 
The thieves seem to suffer from the delusion that ND students can undergo such setbacks and not feel the effects of them. This, as you well know, couldn't be further from the truth. In fact, it breaks my heart to see how in one day, in one incident, how distrusting my roommate has become. 
I'm sick and tired of having to feel as if I have to check my back at all times. It isn't right. Somehow, we at ND and Saint Mary's have to show these insolent criminals that we aren't going to be taken advantage of any longer, be it a robbery or an attack. 
So for God's sake, and most especially your own, if it means being careful, be careful! 
Today's Staff 

Production Accent Lisa Bourdon Paige Smoron Kristin Lynch Jerry Hamilton 
News Scoreboard Meredith McCullough Jim Vogl Alicia Reale 
Graphics Sports Brendan Regan ennifer Marten 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Three an~y depositors are arrested 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Alzheimer's Association Walkathon will be this Saturday. Sponsor a walker or participate yourself in this event, open to all ND/SMC students. Call Ron Severino 283-2180. 

• 
Saint Mary's counseling and career development will sponsor an informational session for Juniors and Seniors considering graduate or professional school on Wednesday, September 25 from 6:30 -7:30 p.m. in Little Theater-Moreau Hall. 

• 
Urban plunge task force organizational meeting for students who have completed the program and are willing to be part of this year's Task Force please attend a meeting on September 25th at 6:30 p.m. or Sept. 26th at 


4:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
• Industry day 1991 for the college of engineering will be held from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on the first and second floors of Fitzpatrick. Excellent job and summer internship opportunities. Bring your resumes to give to company recruiting representatives. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 170.40 Million 212.23 it .69 S&P COMPOSITE 386.94 i} 1.44 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,029.07 .... 18.56 


PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLDi} $ 2.90to $354.00/oz. 
SO..VER-'& 8.2¢ to $4.25oz. 

INDIANA Professors see Soviet problems 
• 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Changing to a market economy in the Soviet Union will be painful for farmers, according to seven Purdue University professors just back from a two-week trip to that country. The Soviets must overcome a lack of expertise about market economies, said food science professor Jay Marks. The Purdue group said farmers in the Soviet Union operate in a system that has been outdated for years. While they saw many problems, the professors said they were encouraged by the enthusiasm of the Soviet people and their hunger for agricultural knowledge. MThe people are thrilled with their new freedom, with the closing of the KGB and the closing of the Communist party headquarters in each to'Wn," said Agronomy professor Marion Baumgardner who led the team. "But whenever we asked them about their future or the future of various institutions, the answer was always the same, 'We don't know. Nobody knows." 

• 
The center for the homeless is having an ori­entation for potential volunteers 7-9 p.m. September 25th at the Center for the Homeless 813 So. Michigan. If you need transportation, a Transpo bus will meet at 6:40 p.m. at the main circle. Call John at 282-8700 with questions. 

• 
The Saint Mary's pre-law society is sponsoring a panel of women in the legal profession. Judge Jordan, At­torney Diane Conroy, Attorney Jane Miller and Attorney Kathleen Brickley will speak on their experiences as "women in law." The panel will be held tonight at 7:30 in Haggar Parlor. All students are invited to attend. 

• 
The CROP walk will begin at St. Joseph High School at 2 p.m. on Sunday. The annual ten Kilometer walk will take you through a variety of South Ben neighborhoods. Sign up for the walk at your dorm or at the Center for Social Concerns. Money that is raised bu the walk will go to hunger relief programs in South Bend and around the world. 

• 
The CBS tour student workers can pick up paychecks at the Student Activities Office Thursday and Friday. 


ON TtiS DAV IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: The first United States Congress, meeting in New York, adopted 12 amendments to the Constitution and sent them to the states for ratification. Ten of the amendments became the Bill of Rights. 

• 
In 1690: One of the earliest American newspapers, Publick Occurrences, published its first -and last -edition in Boston. 

• 
In 1981: The Rolling Stones launched a 25-city American tour at Philadelphia's John F. Kennedy Stadium. 

• 
One year ago: In a videotaped message to Americans, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein warned that if President Bush were to launch a war against his country, "it would not be up to him to end it." 


City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver Detroh Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Mlarri Beach Moscow New York New Orleans Paris Philadelphia Rome St. Louis San Franclaco Seattle 
Solllh Bend Tokyo 
Washington, D.C 
H L 
86 64 81 64 72 55 72 51 
56 ·~ 
62 64 
72 35 
61 38 92 75 
87 71 
86 65 
64 63 
115 71 113 64 87 76 50 31 75 51 83 73 73 59 711 61 81 64 69 53 65 58 78 52 57 43 
79 70 
74 54 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -----­
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 The Observer page 3 
WVIF asks 
Holmes says Gulf War set precedent for unjust wars
HPC for 
By BEVIN KOVALIK eney and various other cam­News Writer paigns who convinced them The Gulf War was unjust and that U.S. intervention was nec­



its support 
set a dangerous precedent for essary," Holmes said. the United States, according to In retrospect, Holmes said,
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
a professor who advocates non­"The U.S. government action 
News Writer 
violent solutions to national taken during the Gulf War was 
problems. a very dangerous precedent for WVFI 640 AM Is looking to The war was unjust because this country." 
jump to FM Stereo, said Kevin the decision to engage was "War is a solution only after 
Flaherty at Tuesday's Hall made by a handful of people one has exhausted all other 
Presidents Council (HPC). 
with no confrontation or au­peaceful alternatives," he said. 
Flaherty, station manager at thorization of Congress, said The United States failed to ex­
WVFI, was at the HPC meeting Robert Holmes, a professor of haust the alternatives, Holmes 
to gather support from the 
philosophy at the University of argued, and could have taken presidents In gaining permis­
Rochester. other measures to address the 
sion from the University to "This war was far from being situation. 
move to an FM stereo signal. 
classified as a last resort be­As a philosopher and author Such a move would greatly in­cause the Bush administration of books dealing with the ethics crease listenership both on and sought a military solution and of war, Holmes said he empha­off campus. 
virtually no other measures sizes the way peaceful alterna­The shift to FM would cost were taken to solve the crises, " tives can be used to solve na­
about $30,000, but according 
he said In a lecture yesterday, tional problems. He said he re­to Flaherty, WVFI can handle held at the Hesburgh Center for alizes that sometimes what ap­
the monetary aspect itself. 
International Studies. pears an ideal solution tends to "We're looking for permission The history of foreign Inter­be unrealistic in today's com­and opportunity, not money," vention In the Persian Gulf and plex environment. 
he said. 
the U.S. Involvement In the war "I try to convince people, and That permission may be hard are two key issues in how the In turn have them convince 
to come by. 
war relates to the criteria of the others, that it is possible to
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz

According to a written state­Just War Theory, according to make a difference in the world, ment distributed by Flaherty, 
Holmes. "he said.
Robert Holmes, University of Rochester, lectures on "The Persian
WVFI has a bad reputation 
"Saudi (Arabia) did not want The Institute for International
Gulf War in Light of Just War Theory and Western Imperialism, • 
with the administration due to 
us to send in troops; it was Peace Studies sponsored the
yesterday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
(Defense Secretary Dick) Ch-lecture. 
Salvadoran government and rebels reach a reconciliation agreement 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -El El Salvador's constitution will they will be safe if they disarm Salvador's government and be amended to separate the and join the political process, leftist rebels agreed Tuesday to national police from the De­thus ending the 12-year-old the guerrillas' incorporation fense Ministry, which is cur­civil war. Into a new national police force, rently in charge of all the coun­This round of talks is in­a cruciaf breakthrough in the try's security forces. tended to set up a final negoti­talks to end the 12-year civil The political independence of ating session planned for later war. the new police force, which will in autumn, at which a perma­
The rebels had demanded in­be partly composed of FMLN nent truce would be adopted corporation in the armed forces officers and opposition political and a complete political settle­as a way to ensure their safety figures, is intended to make it ment would be agreed upon. and that of their followers, and free of the army's influence, Perez de Cuellar agreed to to secure an active role in and thus able to saft;lguard the mediate the talks at the request reforming El Salvador's vio­public, diplomats said. of the United States and Soviet lence-plagued security forces. The FMLN had originally Union. 
The five commanders of the sought incorporation into the In a speech to the General Farabundo Marti National Lib­army, with its officers Inserted Assembly on Monday, Salvado­eration Front, or FMLN, were to right up to the command level, ran President Alfredo Cristiani have signed a communique on but the Salvadoran government said, "Total agreement for an the police issue with President rejected that idea. end to the conflict may be a re­Alfredo Cristiani. But the Secretary-General Javier ality in the very near future." commanders said late Tuesday Perez de Cuellar instead pro­Perez de Cuellar was more that they were making such posed the creation of the new cautious on Monday, saying progress toward a comprehen­national police force as a com­"roadblocks still remain." Rep­sive peace pact that they had promise. resentatives of the FMLN gave a decided to forgo the commu­The government and FMLN similar assessment. nique and push on with negoti­negotiators agreed to continue The parties hammered away ations. working on other issues and to at the details around the clock, 
Unresolved issues include meet with the secretary-general with one meeting of the five purging the army of human again on Oct. 15, diplomats FMLN commanders with the rights abusers, judicial reform, said. The communique that the Salvadoran government's me­the timing and extent of negotiators were working on diators running from 1:30 a.m. amnesties for crimes, and the were not released Tuesday. to 7:30a.m. Tuesday. use of the new national police The eight days of negotiations The ambassadors of force to curb the notorious were an attempt to reach Venezuela, Mexico, Colombia right-wing death squads. agreements in principle on and Spain are also assisting in 
Under Tuesday's agreement, ways of reassuring the rebels the talks. 
Guatemalan Imports •Vests ·Shirts •Hooded Bajas •Fanny Packs •Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats, belts, purses, barrettes & headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing & much, much more! Sept 23·28 10 am· Spm 
LaFortune Sorin Room 
"a few Infractions of FCC rul­
Ings on what can and cannot be 
said/played on the air." Fur­
thermore, the administration 
has said In the past that It will 
not allow the station "to be 
heard" until deejays abide by 
the FCC. 
Flaherty Is meeting with Stu­dent Activities within two weeks to discuss a possible changeover, by which time he hopes to have "'something In writing from the student lead­ers that says they support us." 
If the administration agrees to such a move, Flaherty plans to add a number of new syndi­cated shows to WVFJ's line up. lie also hopes to provide more emphasis on campus news, events, and sports, as well as maintaining an emphasis on al­ternative music. 
Rich Saldana, of the Multicul­tural Executive Council (MEC), was on hand to announce the agenda for the sixth annual Multicultural Fall Festival, which takes place from Mon­day, Sept. 30 to Sunday, Oct. 6. 
Featured every day during the festival are a series of fireside chats from noon to 1 
p.m. on the second floor of the LaFortune Center. A variety of topics will be discussed, including the Soviet Union, Japan, and the rights of indigenous peoples. Lunch will be provided to all who attend. 
Also daily, there will be "Culture on the Quad" from 
12:30 to 1:30 _p.m., and enter­tainment from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m., both on Fieldhouse Mall. 
Friday, Oct. 4 there will be a Taste of Nations in Stepan Cen­ter, offering "a global extrav­aganza of dancing and cuisine." 
The festival concludes Sun­day, Oct. 4 at 2 p.m. with a mass celebrating multicultural­ism. The Mass, according to Saldana, "will fulfill your Sun­day obligation, but it will be unlike any other Mass you have ever been to," and will spotlight multicultural singing and danc­Ing. 
One of the goals of the MEC is to provide Notre Dame students with "an understanding of other cultures, so they're prepared for an international workforce which they will have to interact with on a daily ba­sis," Saldaiia said. 

• 1:JOOO lba OF 1:P'illifJ1 ~[[ID' 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /)\EDUCE 

• 
ICARIAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS· :JS CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR•(ADDITIONAL) 


©£:JJJ1 ~®W 8~~ 
M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM SAT 8:00 AM • 6:00 PM SUN 12:00 P~" ~-oo PM 
POWERHOUSE GYM • 130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 

page 4 




Rank 
continued from page 1 
determination. 
The mean SAT score for SMC is 1025. This year's freshmen scored an average 490 on the verbal section and 530 on the math section. Twenty-two per­cent of the freshmen graduated from the top ten percent of their graduating high school class while fifty-eight percent were in the top quarter of their class. 
SMC was the only women's college rated in the Midwest's top fifteen. 
"As an institution which de­votes itself to undergraduate education and excellence in teaching, w have to be pleased with this recognition," said William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College. 
Two other Indiana schools, Valparaiso University and But­ler University ranked among the Midwest top 15. The schools were rated second and eight respectively. 


--~~----­

The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
ANNUAL COLLEGE RATINGS 
TOP NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES 
1. 
Harvard University 

2. 
Yale University 

3. 
Stanford University 

4. 
Princeton University 


. f%1:--­

5. Calif. Institute of Technology 
SatntMary's Colleg& 
6. Mass. Institute of Technology 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
7. 
Duke University TOP REGIONAL UNIVERSITIES, 

8. 
Dartmouth College MIDWEST 


9. Columbia University 


1. Illinois Wesleyan University 
10. University of Chicago 

2. 
Valparaiso University 

3. 
Saint Mary's College 

4. 
Michigan Tech University 


4. DePaul University 
6. 
St. Norbert College 

7. 
Creighton University 

8. 
Butler University 

9. 
John Carroll University 


10.Un~ersHyofDa~on 



Money 
continued from page 1 

ranking of financial resources shows Moore that the magazine's survey is "flawed" in several ways: 
•The method of arriving at 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 

On Monday, Kay's U.N. team was detained for 12 hours in a Baghdad building after finding what they said was evidence 
Key witness dies; murder case still on 
HELENA, Mont. (AP) -A key 

witness in a prison beating 
death case was among the five 
inmates killed by prisoners at 
the State Prison, but an even 
better witness was in protective 
custody in a codnty jail, author­
ities said Tuesday. 
The murder trial of two 
prison inmates will begin Mon­
day as scheduled. 
The two defendants and the 
dead witness all were in the 
maximum-security unit of the 
prison at Deer Lodge when the 
riot broke out Sunday. 
The five inmates killed were 
being held in protective custody 
in the cellblock, including Ed­
mund Davison, prison officials 
said. 
Davison was one of 57 wit­
nesses prosecutors had said 
might have to testify in the 
murder trial of Douglas Turner 
and William Gollehon. They 
are accused of using baseball 
bats to beat to death Gerald 
Pillegi in a prison exercise yard 
a year ago. 
At least eight inmates are 
listed as potential prosecution 
witnesses. 
Davison, 33, was described as a key witness. But another key witness, John Armstrong, was housed in the Powell County jail when the riot occurred. Arm­strong claims to have seen Turner and Gollehon beat Pil­legi. 
Powell County Attorney Chris Miller said Tuesday that Arm­strong was moved out of the prison in January after he told authorities what he saw. Asked why Davison was also not housed elsewhere, Miller said: "His (Armstrong's) testimony was a lot more important than what Davison had to offer." 

the financial resources figure includes the full-time enroll­ment of both undergraduate and graduate students, while the ranking "is supposed to be just a survey of undergraduate schools," he said. 
•Universities that do not have a medical school or other strong graduate programs which typically bring in large amounts of research money and additional students are pe­nalized by the survey. 
•Universities like California Institute of Technology that are highly specialized and have ex­pensive equipment will auto­matically be spending more money than schools that lack such programs. 

Flaws aside, the U.S. News and World Report rankings have little affect on potential students at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Rooney. 
The admissions office receives few calls about the rankings, Rooney said. And Public Relations received just one in­quiry last year, according to Moore. 
"Any student who based the decision to apply or attend Notre Dame on this type of ranking is probably not exercis­ing the kind of decision-making faculties we'd like our students to use," Rooney added. 
that Iraq has been trying to de­video camera at a building of velop nuclear weapons. Iraqi the Iraqi Atomic Energy Com­troops seized the papers, and mission, they found documents although some were returned that gave a fuller picture of early Tuesday, U.N. officials Iraq's secret nuclear program,said key documents were miss­detailing the p·eople overseeing the work and the foreign com­

When the inspectors began panies that supplied nuclear ing. .-..f..~e. ND-SMC 
their work Tuesday, using a materials, Kay said. 
~"9! ~.., STUDENTSf0~....~ 19th Annual Program 
~~ ROME



SENIOR CLASS 
· LONDON June 14-July 13 May 20-June 19 Travel in France, Travel in Ireland, Germany, and 
Tickets for Cubs Game 
Scotland, and France Switzerland Courses offered in 

on October 6 

ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
ON SALE for $15.00 
MEETING Monday Oct. 7 6:15pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza 
at Information Desk in LaFortune 
"*Past student and facu~y participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 · 
STARTING SEPT.30 




JUNIOR CLASS BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Juniors-Grab your bookstore team and start warming up now. The tournam~nt is Oct. 3-5th. Sign up Mon, Sept. 23rd -Wed, Sept. 25th in the Junior Class OHice, from 3-5 pm. $5/team, teams must have at least 3 iuniors. 



* Prizes will be awarded to the winning team* 

Wednesday, September 25, 1991 The Observer 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 

Kick it! 
Notre Dame students brave yesterday's low temperatures as Pangborn defeats Dillon in an interhall soccer game. 

McDonald's and United combine forces 
CHICAGO (AP) -McDonald's Corp. piloted into new territory Tuesday, announcing a joint venture with United Airlines to provide children's meals on domestic flights to Orlando, Fla. 
The promotion, called Mc­Donald's Friendly Skies Kids Meals, coincides with United's expanded service to its hub in Orlando, home of Disney World and other attractions. 
The meals, which include cheeseburgers and cookies, will be served on about 45 daily flights to and from Orlando be­ginning Oct. 31. The meals have to be ordered when airline tick­ets are purchased. 
"We think this is a unique new way for McDonald's to reach its customers," said Re­becca Caruso, a spokeswoman for the Oak Brook, 111.-based fast-food giant. 
It was unclear whether this will be the first time a fast-food chain has teamed up with an airline for a promotion. The two may expand the service, company officials said. 
McDonald's has been looking for ways to bring in business, and United, like other airlines suffering from fewer travelers because of the recession, is seeking ways to lure people hack aboard its planes. Last month, United inaugurated a champagne-and-caviar first­class menu on some of its flights. 
"We wanted to create a product in the air that would make flying more fun for chil­dren and easier for parents," said Adam Aron, United's senior vice president of marketing. 
D~CUS,Syria(AP)--In 
another breakthrough in the hostage crisis, kidnappers freed 77-year-old Briton Jack Mann on Tuesday after holding him for 865 days, and a Shiite Muslim leader said an Ameri­can hostage may soon follow. 
Walking painfully and stooped over, Mann was led by officials into a packed news conference at the Syrian Foreign Ministry, where he angrily denounced his captors for chaining him and ordering him around. 
"This morning I started an­other dreadful day.... l won­dered how many more months I've got to stay.... I wondered how much longer, how much longer, how much longer. Won­dering how many more months I've got to stay here," the white­haired, former World War II pilot said in a hoarse, anguished whisper. 
uMy voice has gone after 2 1/2 years of chaining, of saying: 'Do this, do that. Don't do that!' or 'Be quiet!"' Mann said, banging his hand on a table to illustrate the orders from his kidnappers. 
Aske(j if he had any news of the other hostages, Mann said, "None at all." He started to continue, but British Ambas­sador Andrew Green inter­rupted. 
At one point, Mann began a long explanation of how he was kidnapped in Beirut, but Green again cut him off when he 

----------------------~---:-~~------------, started to meander. Mann sat
Semester & "Spring Break Specials" Bahamas/Orlando Vacation $32900per person "Reserve your spot early" Booklng Fast 
Includes: 

•ROUND 
TRIP AIRFARE TO ORLANDO FLA. •4DA.YS&3NITESINORLANDOA.TDA.YSINN ORTRA.VELLODGEMAINGA.TERESORT. 

•USE 
OF RENT·A-CA.R GF.O METRO OR FORD ESCORT 

•ROUND 
TRIP CRUISE TO BAHAMAS ABOARD DISCOVER I 1,400 PASSENGER CRUISE UNER. 

•4 
DAYS & 3 NITES IN GRAND BAHAMAS 


~~~-~~:;,'~~~FSS RESORT & CASINO (Beach Front) Double Occupancy Only Per Room SSTAR •IIOIJDAYINNLUCAYANBEACfl (Beach front) DoubleOccupancyOnlyPerRoom 3 STAR •CASTAWAYS RESORT fiOTEL (Acrooolrom Prince .. flotel-2 Minute• from Beach) Groups Only 3STAR •fREEPORTINNIIOTEl.(l/2MileToBeach-FreeShuttleToBeach) GroupsOnly 
SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY·PORT CHARGES & TRANSFERS INCLUDEDo(HOTEL TAX EXTRA) SINGLES WELCOMED· TIIS PRICWITH STUDENTI.D.·DtSNEY PASSES.UNIVERSALPASESATHOTEL-18YRS.OROLDER 

page 5 


Kidnappers free Mann, raise hopes for others 
quietly while officials made speeches. 
As he was led from the room, he appeared dazed and disori­ented by the bright television 
lights. 
Two hours later Mann, look­ing frail but cheerful, he was reunited with his wife, Sunnie, at the ambassador's residence and they left for the airport for a six-hour flight to England. 
Earlier Tuesday, Prime Minis­ter John Major of Britain said he had heard that Mann was "a little unwell," and a 10 Down­
ing Street Spokesman had Said the government WaS "disturbed" about reports of Mann's health. 
The release of Mann by his 

pro-Iranian kidnappers in Le­banon Tuesday kept up the momentum established by the freeing of three Western hostages in August. In all of 1990, only five Westerners were released in Lebanon. 
U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar has sought a broad exchange involving the Western hostages, an account­ing of five missing Israeli ser­vicemen and the release of hun­dreds of Arabs held by Israel. 
Perez de Cuellar said in 
statement Tuesday he was 
"encouraged by this further 
step in a process which he 
hopes will lead to a full, speedy 
and satisfactory solution of the 
problem of all detainees and 
missing persons." 
President Bush seemed less certain that pro-Iranian ex­tremist groups would free the nine remaining Western hostages in Lebanon. 
ul hope it's not the end of the release program," he said in New York. "There are many more.... It's so tragic." He said the United States could not have normal relations with Iran as long as any hostages are held. 
Hussein Musawi, a leader of Hezbollah, the umbrella group for most of the factions holding Westerners, told reporters in the Bekaa Valley town of Sohmor: uif things continued to proceed normally an American hostage will be released. Maybe within a week or less than a month." 
He said Mann was set free Nto facilitate Perez de Cuellar's mission. The other side is re­quired to facilitate his mission too." 
He apparently referred to the kidnappers' demands that Is­rael release 20 more Arab pris­oners, or possibly Sheik Abdul­Karim Obeid, the Hezbollah leader seized by Israeli com­mandos in 1989. 
Yossi Olmert, an Israeli gov­ernment spokesman, said Mann's release was a ua posi­tive and welcome development." But he noted that Israel still seeks word on five missing servicemen. 
Gf-A world ofopportunityfor 
career development and personal growth 



Georgian president declares state of emergency 
page 6 
Yeltsin to take work leave 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin, who skipped a parlia­ment session last week because of a heart ailment, will take a leave from work that could last two weeks, Soviet media re­ported Tuesday. 
The reports renewed specula­tion about the reasons for re­cent changes in the 60-year-old Yeltsin's schedule. With the ab­sence of official word from Yeltsin, the reasons circulating in rumor mills range from Yeltsin's fatigue to his reluc­tance to face criticism about decrees he issued during and since the failed Aug. 18-21 coup. 
Yeltsin, 60, reaped enormous power and prestige by success­fully leading opposition to the coup. 
He is the most popular politi­cian in the Soviet Union and if he were to become seriously ill, die, or step down from office, it would further destabilize an al­ready chaotic situation. 
Soviet television said that Yeltsin will "travel for a rest" on Wednesday. His destination was not revealed. 
The independent Interfax news agency quoted Yeltsin's 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) -Ge­orgian President Zviad Gam­sakhurdia on Tuesday ordered a state of emergency in the cap­ital to control "criminal ele­ments" he said were trying to depose him on the orders of Soviet leaders. 
The nationalist leader of the southern Soviet republic also said he would try to peacefully end a three-day occupation of the government's broadcasting studios by hundreds of armed opponents. 
The steps were likely to esca­late the month-long tensions between the generally popular Georgian president and his op­ponents, who charge him with acting like a dictator since win­ning Georgia's first popular presidential election in May. 
Gamsakhurdia claims the op­position is inspired by Kremlin and foreign agents intent on crushing Georgia's indepen­dence drive. 
"The situation in Georgia, particularly in Tbilisi, is very tense politically. There is a civilian and military coup against the president and the parliament," Gamsakhurdia told a news conference. 
Gamsakhurdia said emer­gency rule would start Wednes­day. Georgian officials later 
~ GYROS ~ 
Grand Opening Specials are: V Gyro Sandwich .............................................. $2.75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger ............................. $0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner ..................... $3.49 Rib Tip Dinner .............................................. $4.75 21 Shrimp Dinner ......................................... $3.79 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread)
Show Student ID and get a free 16 oz. drink with your 'purchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t, 
: : : : : : : : : : N:ew1ocation:is now open : : : : : : : : : : : 
~~ P~x~~ W~Y. ~«?$, ~9s~~~4 Ne~t:t«? ~9~~~ay ~r¢:27~-Q~ 
......... Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru ........ . 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : H:otirs:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
:Mqn~tl(uts:t~:(XHt;O(): J:r(-$~t:.L~:Q0:-1:2::00 : $U:n:t~:QQ-1;0;0(): 
spokesman, Pavel Voshchanov, as indicating "the leave could last for a couple of weeks." 
Officials have said an unspec­ified heart ailment forced Yeltsin to miss a session of the Supreme Soviet legislature last Thursday and Friday, where he was supposed to deliver a speech. 
The acting chairman of the Russian legislature, Ruslan Khasbulatov, told lawmakers Yeltsin was not seriously ill. 
Aides and officials close to Yeltsin also dismissed sugges­tions that the president suffers from any serious illness, and attributed Yeltsin's sudden sickness to his strenuous work schedule. 
On Friday, Yelstin traveled to the Caucasus Mountains to me­diate a cease-fire in the dis­puted area of Nagorno­Karabakh, claimed by both Armenia and Azerbaijan. 
He returned to Moscow early Tuesday morning and later met the visiting president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, Gerald Corrigan, to dis­cuss financial and banking re­forms, the Tass news agency said. 
announced it would take effect at midnight (4 p.m. EDT) Tues­day, the Soviet news agency Tass said. 
He said there wouldn't be a curfew, nor would public gath­erings be banned. But he said that "there will be strict control in the city." 
Gamsakhurdia said the streets were being patrolled by police, loyalist members of the Georgian National Guard and armed civilian units. 
Thousands of protesters have rallied for days for and against the president, blocking central Rustaveli Prospect and sur­rounding key buildings, includ­ing the broadcast studios. 
On Tuesday, the dissidents detained four armed loyalists and held them in the studios, said Tengiz Kitovani, head of the rebel Georgian National Guard units. 
The four said they were searching for stolen cars, but Kitovani said they were trying to provoke opposition members. He ruled out exchanging them for three opposition guardsmen detained the previous day. 
The president said he hoped to end the occupation of the studios but would not use vio­lence. 
"We will try to force them to leave that building.... There 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991
The Observer 


Holloway asks for new trial 
HOUSTON (AP) -Lawyers for the woman convicted of hiring a hitman to kill the mother of her daughter's cheerleading rival asked for a new trial Tuesday, partly be­cause one of the jurors had been indicted on drug charges. 
State District Judge George Godwin scheduled a hearing for Nov. 7 on the motion for a new trial for Wanda Holloway of Channelview. 
Holloway was convicted Sept. 3 of trying to hire a hitman to kill Verna Heath, whose daugh­ter was competing with Hol­loway's daughter for a spot on the high school cheerleading squad. She was sentenced to 15 years in prison but is free pending appeal. 
The defense team discovered that juror Daniel Enriquez was under indictment on cocaine possession charges during Hol­loway's trial, lawyer Stan Schneider said. 
will be no shooting and use of force," he said. "If they give up their arms and disband their units, we won't do anything against them." 
Referring to the opposition as "representatives of the former Communist mafia and large groups of criminal elements," Gamsakhurdia said his oppo­nents were stirring trouble in order to provoke Moscow's in­tervention. 
Gamsakhurdia singled out former Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, an eth­nic Georgian and leading re­

**************************************************** 

SYSTEMS RECRUITING 
Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be 
on campus on: Thursday, September 26th 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation th"at develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune 500 company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 30 consecutive years. The company conducts operations in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain business and scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment that utilizes the technologies of IBM. DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Take advantage of the opportunity to discuss your future in the information systems field. 
Global 
lnfomNIIiDn 
s,stems 
~ 
***************** **************************** 
former who once ran the Geor-would be broadcast live on tele­gian branch of the Communist vision. Party. But Ganfsakhurdia said he 
"I am sorry to say that She-was considering dissolving the vardnadze has a great connec-parliament and calling new tion with the coup leaders and elections, as well as imposing is helping and supporting them. presidential rule. ... They would never act without "If part of the deputies stay instructions of Shevardnadze," with the putschists, to me there Gamsakhurdia said, conceding is the question of dissolving the he had no documentary evi-parliament and new elections dence to back up the claim. will be called" open to any le­
The opposition, including sev-gaily registered party, he said. era! lawmakers, is demanding "Of course, in case the par­Gamsakhurdia release political liament is dissolved, there prisoners, allow the opposition should be presidential rule," access to television, and con-Gamsakhurdia said. vene an extraordinary session The president ruled out any of the Georgian parliament that negotiations with his opponents. 



MIAMI (AP} -Testimony by  Del Cid then admitted his  army in disgrace, del Cid ac­ 
Manuel Noriega's former aide  account was wrong.  knowledged.  
fell apart under defense ques­ "It was an  error, it was  a  Rubino also noted that a score  
tioning Tuesday, casting doubt  mistake on my part," he said.  of Colombians arrested at the  
on the government's charge  Prosecutors claim Noriega  lab were turned over to their  
that Fidel Castro mediated a  was bribed by Colombian drug  own government long before  
drug dispute between the Panamanian leader and traf­fickers.  traffickers to protect their shipments and launder their money. His lawyers contend  Noriega reached Cuba to make an alleged deal with the cartel. Del Cid, Noriega's self-de­ Squirrel lover  The Obserwr/R. Garr Schwartz  
Luis del Cld, 47, testified at length Monday that he had con­tacted Noriega in Paris In 1984  that Noriega worked for the CIA and other U.S. agencies that knew what he was doing and  scribed errand boy, also admit­ted he never saw or was told that envelopes and suitcases he  A Notre Dame student takes a break from academia to play with one of the many critters who enjoy life under the dome.  
to tell him that Panamanian  encouraged it.  took to Noriega from alleged  
 
troops had accidentally raided a  In recanting his previous tes­ drug pilots and couriers con­ Protesters fined $185  
MedeHln cartel cocaine labo­ratory in Panama's Darien  timony, Del Cld agreed Noriega himself gave the order to raid  tained drug cash. "It couldn't be anything else  
province, thinking It was  a  the drug lab In May 1984 while  but drugs," insisted del Cid.  for last April's actions  
guerrilla camp. Del Cld Initially claimed he flew Immediately to New York and escorted the returning Noriega to a meeting with Cas­tro in Cuba. The Indictment says Noriega was paid to pro­tect the lab, and after the Cuban president's mediation, the Panamanian leader was forced to return millions of dollars In bribe money. But defense attorney Frank Rubino pointed out that Nor­iega's passport and Panama­nian Investigation reports showed Noriega was in Panama during the raid, didn't leave the country until nearly a month later and didn't get to Cuba until nearly throe weeks after that.  still in Panama. Noriega's nar­cotics chief, Capt. Luis Quiel, even took a U.S. Drug En­forcement Administration agent along with him to inspect the lab the following day. Nearly a month later Noriega left Panama on an official tour to the United States, France, Israel -and Cuba. The trip to Cuba was not a panicked diver­sion following the Darien raid, but rather a pre-planned leg of the trip, del Cid acknowledged. Del Cid called Noriega in Eu­rope only to tell him that one of his aides, Col. Julian Melo, took a $6 million bribe from drug traffickers to protect the lab, and that the Colombians wanted the money back, he tes­tified. Melo was sent back to Panama and kicked out of the  "Everyone in Panama knew these people were into drugs." The prosecution, meanwhile, successfully barred the defense from asking the witness about a variety of sensitive areas, in­cluding Israel's relationship with a succession of Panama­nian military governments and the U.S. role in selecting Panama's president in 1983. Rubino had del Cid Identify former Israeli Mossad agent and Noriega military adviser Mike Harari from a photo, but U.S. District Judge William Ho­eveler refused to let him de­velop testimony about an al­leged "quid pro quo" between Panama and Israel for secret operations in Central America and elsewhere.  SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP} -More than 100 abortion protesters arrested in April have been asked to pay $185 each or risk further legal ac­tion. Letters were sent Sept. 10 by County Attorney Anthony Zap­pia to each of those arrested demanding payment by Oct. 1. The letters explain the $185 represents $115 in court costs, $20 for city and $50 for the county to reimburse them for the costs of arresting, trans­porting, supervising and feed­ing the protesters. The letters were sent after a conference with City Attorney Richard Nussbaum, Zappia said. On April 10, 107 people were  arrested by South Bend police outside the Women's Pavilion abortion clinic. Most of the protesters were incarcerated for llve days and released after County Prosecutor Michael Barnes worked out an agree­ment with attorney Russell Sanford, who was representing the abortion opponents. The agreement required the protesters to provide their cor­rect names and addresses to authorities before they could be released from custody. Origi­nally the protesters were booked only as John Doe or Jane Doe, names they gave to represent unborn babies. Because of its size, the group was held by county police at  

Wednesday, September 25, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Senate approves democratic jobless bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The separate Republican plan to cut the regular 26 weeks of jobless Senate approved a $6.1 billion the capital gains tax rate and payments. Democratic measure Tuesday take other steps they said would MHow many more Americans that would extend jobless bene­prod the sleepy economy. That must lose their benefits before fits for up to 20 additional vote was 60-39. this administration acts?" asked weeks, ignoring a throat by "President Bush will veto this Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. President Bush to veto the bill. proposal," Republican leader Bush has argued that the 
The lawmakers approved the Bob Dole of Kansas said about Democratic measure is un­legislation on a 69-30 vote, two the Democratic bill. "And the needed because, he says, the more than what would be veto is going to be sustained. recession -relatively mild to needed to pass the bill over a "And then we ask ourselves, begin with -is ending. He has presidential veto. well, what have we done for the also complained that the $6.1 
Democratic leaders said they unemployed? Zero." billion legislation would push hoped the Senate and House But Democrats, bristling for a the federal budget even further could agree to a compromise veto fight with the president, into the red because the gov­version of the measure and said the Republican plans were ernment would have to borrow send It to Bush as early as next inadequate and said they would to finance it. week. not water down their measure Knowing they were outnum­
Final Senate approval came by striking a compromise with bored and likely to lose, Repub­shortly after the lawmakers re­Bush. licans pressed their own pro­jected a pair of alternative ''l'm hopeful we'll have posals anyway, hoping to plans Republicans had offered enough (votes} to override a demonstrate that they were in hopes of showing they too veto, that we 'II have that kind of ready to fight the recession ­are concerned about the reces­strength and get the job done," and in a way they considered sion. said Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, of more responsible than the 
A less generous Republican Texas, the Democratic plan's Democrats. version, endorsed by Bush, chief sponsor. "Let's bring on the leeches; would have provided as many As they have done since Bush let's pile on the blankets; let's as 10 extra weeks of compen­killed a similar measure last spread .the misery," was how sation. It was rejected on a month, they accused Bush of Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, near-party line vote of 57-42. indifference toward the 300,000 characterized the Democratic 
The Senate then rejected a Americans who monthly deplete measure. 
Doubts arise in Noriega trial 
•~---.....••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..·~· the Army Reserve Center. They
were charged with misde-
INDUSTRY DAY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
.-. 

September 25 CAREER FAIR 
FITZPATRICK HALL (Floor 1 and 2) 
11:00 a.m. 4:00p.m. 
*.Representatives from over 30 major companies *Opportunities for full-time employment and summer internships *Bring your resumes! 
Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL and SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
meanor counts of criminal trespass, and rather than en­tering a plea, agreed not to dispute facts of the charges. 
The charges said the protesters remained on the property of the abortion clinic, in violation of the law, when they had no legitimate Interest there and after police asked them to leave. 
The penalties Included credit for the time served In custody -equivalent to a 10-day jail term, as well as assessment of the court costs and restitution for the city and county. The sentence also included non-re­porting probation for four months with a provision not to trespass at the Women's Pavil­ion. 
The arrests and incarceration 
resulted In expenses of $3,850 
for the city and about $8,000 
for the county, officials said. 
Nussbaum and Zappia said a 
lawsuit may be filed against 
protesters who do not pay 
seeking a judgment that even­
tually could give the county and 
city authority to garnishee an 
individual's wages for the fees. 

page 8 The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
SECURITY BEAT 

Skinner pushes plan to quiet loudest jets 
WASHINGTON (AP} ­
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner on Tuesday launched a drive to hush the nation's loudest jets by the end of the decade, without severely disrupting airline fmances. 
Skinner issued new noise re­duction regulations that gave airlines the flexibility they had asked for, while promising more peace and quiet in the new century for most of the nearly 3 million Americans now exposed regularly to high levels of jet racket. 
Skinner put the cost at any­where between $880 million and $4 billion, while one indus­try group said it likely will be $100 billion. In any case, it likely will be paid by airline travelers through higher ticket prices, Skinner noted. 
The transportation secretary said that in certain "very rare" circumstances his department would consider waiving the new rules or up to two years so as not to force fmancially troubled airlines out of business. 
Skinner also issued new stan-their own noise standards at a dards that likely will make it faster pace than the federal more difficult for individual government. airports and communities to is-"It looks l!ke a delaying of sue.more restrictive noise rules. • significant noise relief as long 
James Busey, head of the Federal Aviation Administra­tion, said this was necessary to avoid disrupting the airline in­dustry and "to reduce the noise in a standard way so that noise will not be simply pushed to another area." 
"These regulations provide a good balance that meets the needs of the 300 million Ameri­cans who fly, and the several million people who live near airports," Skinner said. "We're giving airlines flexibility but setting standards for them to meet. How fast that will occur will depend on the economic condition of the industry." 
Noise-reduction activists ex­pressed disappointment at the announcement, said it is heavily tilted in favor of the airline in­dustry and asserted it will all but eliminate the possibility that local communities can impose as possible for the convenience of the industry," said Charles Price, executive director of the National Association to Insure a Sound-controlled Environment (NOISE}. 

Price said the regulations ap­pear to make it "really bard" for local communities to reduce noise through their own regula­tions. 
"I think its going to have to be resolved by litigation," said Price, whose organization rep­resents 35 smaller communities located near airports. 
In Hempstead, N.Y., Joseph Lewis, a veteran anti-noise campaigner, said that the new policy might help neighbor­hoods 20 miles from an airport but "For close-in communities, it will mean absolutely notb­ing." 
But George Howard, president of the Airport Operators Council, said the noise policy will provide "significant relief" to communities near airports. And he said airports retain the right to ol]er communities fur­ther noise protection by impos­ing their own restrictions. 
The new noise-reduction rule will require the replacement or quieting of more than 2,200 of the nation's loudest jet aircraft by the year 2000. Foreign air­lines flying into the United States also will be required to meet the new noise standard. 
When the transition to quieter aircraft is complete, Skinner said, the number of people exposed to high levels of airport jet noise will be reduced by about 85 percent, from about 
2.7 million to around 400,000. 
Skinner said the project will cost airlines $880 million to $4 billion, depending on whether they choose to retrofit noisy "Stage 2" aircraft with "hush kits" or quieter engines, or to replace them with quieter "Stage III" aircraft. 
Hey Notre Daine! 

Come Ineet the newest member of the ND family: 



Coach John MacLeod 
and the rest-of the 1991 -1992 Fighting Irish basketball team 
and have some pizza on us! 

Wednesday, September 25, 1991 9:00pm Theodore's-LaFortune Student Center 
(Light refreshments will be served -compliments of General Foods) 
....._..

----·-----------------------· ' 
~~~~~------------------------------------~---~-­
Viewpoint 

Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
Page9 



EDITORIAL 
Saint Mary's sports merit promotion 
In the world of sports, attention is not solely determined by the size of a team's market or by the number of its fans. 
At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, however, you would be 
hard pressed to discover the truth of that statement from a 
simple look around you. 
Notre Dame football and basketball is publicized to the hilt. Also, the University, already a sports mammoth, has hired a promotions director to publicize its high-calibre Olympic sports programs such as baseball, soccer, volley­ball, hockey, lacrosse, swimming, track, cross country, ten­nis, golf and wrestling. 
People are led to wonder, then, why Saint Mary's athletic programs are apparently unheralded. 
Is it that other successful programs cannot flourish in the same soil as a fan-magnet such as Notre Dame? Considering the achievements of Saint Mary's teams to date, that is clearly not the case. 
Belles soccer is maturing Into a consistently nationally­competitive· program, as is basketball, tennis, track, volley­ball, swimming and softball. 
But even in South Bend, Saint Mary's programs are rarely heard about. Last season alone, the Belles soccer team took Division I Notre Dame to the wire, losing 1-0 with only five minutes left to play. Saint Mary's diver Carrie Cummins ad­vanced all the way to the national tournament, and placed respectably in two events. 
Nonetheless, people outside of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses are unlikely to have heard of either in­stance. Why? Because the teams are not marketed. That is not to say that the Belles must adopt a Madison Ave. ap­proach to Division Ill athletics. Rather, Saint Mary's admin­istrators and students must show support for their teams. Promotions on campus and in town might serve to enhance the Image of Benes teams. Similarly, better resources to fans and the media alike would make following and covering Saint Mary's athletic events-including recreational events such as lOK runs, fitness classes and so on-not only more enjoyable and more likely but more possible. 
Saint Mary's Is a high-quality liberal arts institution, and it Is surprising that it docs not herald its athletic programs more widely. Why not publicize a soccer team that competes against some of the most prestigious and respected pro­grams In its division? By attracting greater attention to its athletic programs, Saint Mary's could bolster the image of an already Impressive institution. · 
Saint Mary's, in that It has moved from up to the NCM's Division Ill, has taken great strides, and stands on the threshold of taking still greater strides. National recogni­tion, however, is difficult and elusive without first gaining the reeognition of your campus and civic community. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Abortion problem is an economic one 
Dear Editor: 
I feel that both the Anti­Choice and Pro-Choice advo­cates are missing the funda­mental question surrounding the issue of abortion. Perhaps both groups, each of which is concerned with the protection of the individual's rights, can join forces to address the more pertinent question of why women are having to choose whether or not to terminate their pregnancies in the first place. 
I think the answer to this question lies in the contradic­tory messages American society gives women. On one hand, it advocates that we respect and preserve life at any cost, re­gardless of whether the woman's pregnancy is planned, wanted or feasible. 
On the other hand, unwed mothers (the majority of women who choose abortions are single) are met with shame and judgment, often not supported by their families or the father of the child, and are confronted with inadequate social services, making it nearly impossible to raise a child alone. 
The unwillingness to support 
l+'; a 
.. VICIOUS 
Orcitl 

women and their children, along with the refusal to con­front, and deal positively, with human, and especially female, sexuality, reflects society's re­pressive approach to the role of women and children in our cui­ture. 
If we are concerned, there­fore, with preserving the sanctity of life during preg­nancy, we as a society must change our hypocritical policies to prove that we value the lives of the mother and child after birth as well. 
While I also agree that we must act in order to teach our society to respect the sacred­ness of life, I have strong reservations as to whether these goals can truly be accom­plished through the activities of the Right To Life movement. The tunnel vision of the move­ment prevents it from looking beyond the nine months of ges­
tation, to the eighte<m -ymrrs-ur---Tfyou1rirlyiieTiev.:.:e:.:;t~h-at~a-:l::-1':':li'='fe----.J care and support that our chil-is precious, then act for all dren require. human life-not just for the first 
Therefore, Instead of getting nine months of it. arrested for preventing women Michaela Bruzzese from exercising their rights, O'Hara Grace Townhouses perhaps it would be more pro-Sept. 18, 1991 ductive to get arrested for 
tJ. 4.1k ~ld 

~rows up wi+t.­UQ;;~.L-r--1'r"'....::-. 1V\ a c..r i·+ic.a1> 
-a,:>a.~-tiC­-60cieT~··· 
protesting our government's refusal to provide adequate day care, child support, maternity and paternity leave, and ado­quate health care for our moth­ers and children. 
Let us get arrested for demanding that our government stop spending our taxes on "national security" when our children don't even know the meaning of neighbor­hood security because of drug and gang wars, unemployment, poverty and homelessness. 
In addition to these steps, we must educate our children and adolescents to respect each other's sexuality, and give them the right to protect themselves with birth control, so that they can make mature and informed decisions for themselves. In ef­feet, we must empower the women and children of our so­ciety, so that this endless cycle of oppression will stop. 
DOOHESBURY 
B.O.,I JU5T7HINI< IF ~a wm 7D STAI<TaJR. CW!i':T'3HIPAU-OVM A64/N, U/13 M16HT Be ABU 70 PUT 9fM.1e Of 7H/J PAIN BeHINlJ /J9. 
~Y,OKAY, 
IUf)() fT! 
BOOPS!&, WJWYa.J tiK/3 lOGO 70/?/NN&R. 
aJITHM/J~ 
I 
C11, THAN!< 
YC?!iJ 8.{).,8UT
I'MAFRAIIJ I/J1 AtJ?EAPY 
51£/NG 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Good behavior is the last refuge of mediocrity.' 
Henry S. Haskins 

Mind overflowing? Send a thought to: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
Viewpoint

Page 10 Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
Notre Dame arrogance not limited only to football 
Editor's note: The following first Oral Roberts runs. This. raw Q. and Jane Z. Public dream of just appears that way some­of"CHIPS.: appeared after the Notre hatred goes beyond sports. sending their young child to the times. Many of these people This is what we're up against Dame/Indiana football game in (The most detestable in sports­hallowed halls of old Notre with connections are extremely as IU students. Even though we JU's student newspaper, The only category is Oklahoma. Dame. competent. I just think that the attend a fine university in many Indiana Daily Student. Billy Tubbs and Barry Switzer, Most of you know the answer most competent person often different academic areas, we 
-what else needs to be said?" to this question, as do I. There gets denied simply because he will never be considered the Steve Hurst No, I hate everything about is a simple reason why people, or she doesn't have "the inside equals of Notre Dame graduates Daily Student Columnist Notre Dame: South Bend, the "If you graduate from Notre track." It's like a big fraternity upon first encounter. I don't 
arrogant student body, the even Dame, you can write your own without the handshake. Things know how you feel about this, On Saturday, September 7th, more arrogant alumni, the fight ticket." And they aren't talking like Notre Dame are what drove but I think it sucks. like most sports fans in song and especially that idiotic about front row seats to the egoist Ayn Rand to suicide. Unfortunately, it is doubtful that Bloomington, I settled down in leprechaun. But the main circus (although it has been When one graduates from we can do much about it. front of the television with some reason for my hostility is shown that many Notre Dame Notre Dame, chances are that Where does that leave us? friends to watch our intrepid 
Well, I feel better already just Hoosiers play mighty Notre writing about the incredible de­Dame. To be honest, I wasn't test I feel for this evil place and expecting much of a game all those associated with it. So considering the opponent was if you feel the way I do, and the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE why wouldn't you, do what I did DAME and the fact that IU was and get it down on paper. A playing on the road. However, letter, for example. If you are we did OK. I felt IU earned a not in the mood to think one up, fair amount of respect. here's a model for you: Unfortunately, it didn't seem Dear Notre Dame person: that the announcers felt the As a non-Notre Dame person, same way. I am not impressed with your 
I had no idea that NBC Sports school or, for that matter, you was laking lessons in broad­personally. It's time you people casting from Nazi propagan­got off your high horse. and dists. It appeared that Bill mingled with everyone else. The Walsh was going to go down on For some reason, the general nation.) If you go to Notre where his or her degree is from. world would be a better place the field after the game and public views Notre Dame as just Dame, you will meet the chil­·There are plenty of intelligent without you and your beloved embrace each and every Irish a step below Harvard. An dren of rich, high powered peo­students at Notre Dame. If fact, college. player. It was so bad that at utterly lost person might even ple themselves whether or not it takes incredible grades and Peeved in Bloomington. halftime, with ND up 28 to 17, think Notre Dame superior. It they get straight A's. Thus, SAT scores to be admitted P.S. Why do you people wear an NBC sports flunky asked Lou isn't a bad school by any means. when one becomes an Irish unless, of course, you are the green when the school colors Holtz if was disappointed in his On the other hand, it does not alumnus (bow your head), one sibling of an Irish alumnus. If are navy and gold? Stop it! team's performance. "They produce geniuses at a faster magically has a powerful tool in this is the case, you need only It might not do any good, but give scholarships over there, rate than, oh, let's say a certain pursuit of moneymaking: be slightly more intelligent than you will feel better. Now if we too!" Thanks, Lou. IU's honor school located in beautiful CONNECTIONS. the average "joker's Wild" could just do something about was temporarily saved by the southern Indiana. Just look at We all know the cliche that contestant. I could be wrong, NBC Sports. other team's coach. those incredibly accurate it's not what you know but who but it seems like the interview Steve Hurst is a senior history 
I hate Notre Dame more than college rating statistics that you know. Unfortunately, this is to get into such a prestigious and economics major at any other university in the news magazines come out with often true. I'm not saying that school should be deeper than a Indiana University. world-even more than the one every year. So why does John idiots rule the United States; it discussion on the social merits 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NO students treated as equals at SMC 
Dear Editor: others as our equals, and ex­for suggesting that we start our 
I am writing in response to pect to be treated the same own football team. Perhaps it Karl J. Eichelberger's editorial, way. We do not want to be can be done, but for some ··schools are Separate called "domers", or worse yet, reason, the only problem I Institutions" (Sept. 18, 1991). "SMC chicks." foresee with the NCAA is that Perhaps the idea of separate We are Saint Mary's Women. there are no other Women's schools is correct, but Mr. When Notre Dame students visit Football Programs. Eichelberger shows a consider­our campus, they are treated as Saint Mary's and Notre Dame able amount of ignorance in equals. They may swim in our have a unique relationship, one writing his editorial. I am in­pool, work out at our athletic that has spanned 148 years and clined to believe the latter. facility without being charged, survived many problems, such
L.----a-~u4;·
....,.io.....n..-.iii-A-s·never-· better 
Fact: I am a junior at Saint study in our library, take as the decision not to merge in Mary's College, and _I am proud classes on our campus, and the early 1970's. The Women of this. I do not hide this and participate in Saint Mary's of Saint Mary's are proud of our
than being responsible 
pretend to go to Notre Dame. I events. All we wish is to accomplishments, tradition, and am completely satisfied with receive the same benefits on heritage. Mr. Eichelberger,Dear Editor: grows through certain stages. 
the education I am receiving at the campus of Notre Dame. I invite you to visit SaintI am writing in response to There is a fetal stage, a birth Saint Mary's because I know As for the issue of football Mary's anytime to witness ourMs. Jennifer Rasmussen's (The stage, a stage where the person that I am in a strong, compre­tickets, I have never had a pride. And while you are here,Observer, Sept. 18) editorial walks and talks and so on. 
hensive, liberal arts program problem paying extra for my please note that when the sunabout a woman's From the very frrst stage to the which will be of immense value tickets, nor has anyone else I sets, Saint Mary's does not"fundamental" right to abor­very last stage of a person's life not only in the working world, know. We are thankful that the stand in the shadow of thetion. I must say I am growing he or she has the right to grow but in my personal life. I am other school in our community dome.
extremely weary of such selfiSh to maturity without being cold­proud that my degree will say with a football team allows usand irresponsible attitudes. heartedly terminated. 
Saint Mary's College. to attend their football games, Jill Caren Burdo Ms. Rasmussen asks which is I wonder if Ms. Rasmussen The reason we feel that we just as our school allows the LeMans Hall better: A safe, "healthy" abor­has ever seen a fetus react to should be treated as equals in other school in our community Sept. 18, 1991 tion or a so-called back alley an injection of saline solution the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's to attend our sporting events. 
abortion? But I ask, which is into his or her mother's womb. 
Community is because we treat Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger,
better: giving an unwanted She could not have. I can't 
child up for adoption, or better believe anyone could watch a 
yet, taking responsibility for fetus open his or her mouth to 
Author should not generalize about SMC 
one's actions, or murdering an let out a silent scream and see innocent human being? that small human body as it 
Ms. Rasmussen made Dear Editor: school?" and he suggests that In the future, Mr.
writhes in pain and still 
they should spend "less time Eichelberger would take care
commentary which insinuates maintain that a mother has the I read with interest Karl J. that a person must be "born" to right to do this to her own Eichelberger's letter, "Schools trying so hard to ride on the not to generalize about an 
entire group of people based onactually be human, as if birth is child. are separate institutions" (The coat-tails of ND." 

As a senior Biology major at the behavior of one individualthe frrst stage of growth? Has I regret having to be so Observer, Sept. 18). I felt that Saint Mary's, I found his re­at a party. In fact, the entirenot that child been growing for graphic but abortion is he made some valid points in marks to be rather offensive. party incident was an un­approximately the past nine disgusting. his letter and that he initially Personally, I am very proud to necessary addition to his lettermonths? Sadly, abortion is legal in this attempted "not to degrade ar be a student at one of the best and did nothing to prove hisWhile in the womb, the child country but hopefully people belittle the student body at women's liberal arts colleges in point.
is sheltered and nourished by will begin to realize that the SMC." As I read further, how­the country. Saint Mary's is an It only served to anger at
the woman's body. After the right to life outweighs the ever, I soon felt otherwise. child is born, he or she must "right to privacy" . That is, Mr. Eichelberger related a excellent school in its own right least one Saint Mary's student 
and has no need to ride Notre who had attempted to read hisstill be sheltered and nourished whatever "right to privacy" story about a young woman he Dame's coat-tails to make it so. letter with an open mind. 
by another in order to survive. means in this instance. I have met at a party who claimed to 
I know that not all Notre
What's the difference? The yet to figure out what is has to be a "do mer". He later discov­Dame students exhibit such an Kelly A. Smithpoint is, life begins when an egg do with killing one's own child ered that this individual was 
LeMans Hall 

attitude toward us because I
and sperm unite and immedi­while it grows within the actually a Saint Mary's student. ately begin to multiply and womb. Mr. Eichelberger then goes on have many friends at Notre Sept. 19, 1991 grow. that which is growing is Michelle Godwin to ask, "Are SMC students not Dame, both male and female, 
who do not feel the way Mr.
living! Holy Cross Hall proud of where they go to After conception, a human Sepl18, 1991 Eichelberger does. 
-
Accent 

Wednesday, September 2~, 1991 page 11 
Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 

Opposition to 
'New Catholic 
Disneyworld' 
D 
lsney Corporation has recently 
complained about a decline In visitors 
as a result of the University of Notre 
Dame's large draw of tourists. Walt 
Disney himself complains "the University of Notre Dame is rapidly becoming tho new 'Catholic Disney World.' " 
Last week, Father Monk "Mickey Mouse" Malloy met with Disney to discuss the growing problems Disney faces as word of the New Catholic Disney World spreads. Disney complains the University stole many of his ideas. lie cited the Immense fireworks display at last weekend's Sesquicentennial celebration and the upcoming parade, complete with floats, as cases In point. 
Also cited was the cheerleader's new cheer, "who's the leader of the club that's made for you and me? N-0-T-R-E-D-A-M-E." The cheer allegedly Is a distortion of the "Mickey Mouse Club" theme song. 
The Disney corporation questions whether NO's plan to get a rotating statue of Mary on top of the dome was a plot to "one up" Disney. University authorities refuted Disney's claim saying "It was only a joke. The statue is meant to watch over 'God Quad' because it is a dark and dangerous area. Since adding lights would detract from the 'aura or the dome' the statue is the next best method of security." 
Students also claim Notre Dame Is guilty of stealing Ideas from the Magic Kingdom. Reportedly, all females turn into pumpkins at 2 a.m.-much like the popular "Cinderella" fairy tale. 
Students also claim the ridiculously long lines for popular items such '6S football tickets, English classes and lunch at the Dining Hall rival the lines for Disney's popular "Space Mountain" and"Jungle Cruise" rides. 
According to some reports, Notre Dame grosses more net Income than the entire Disney Corporation each year. Monk says a large chunk of this revenue Is made up of bookstore profits. The bookstore sells everything from sweatshirts and musical buttons to toilet seat covers that play the fight song when flushed. Disney said he "only wished" he could have been as "Ingenious" when it came to such ltems.The ND bookstore Is just one of the many attractions at this Alumni amusement park. Pictures with Coach Lou Holtz, head mouseketeer, are rapidly becoming one of the largest attractions. Though, said to be only a cardboard look-alike, visitors flock to the attraction and the line grows longer every weekend. 
Perhaps the largest amusement of all Is the football game. NBC allegedly paid an obscene amount of money to broadcast the games live with Annette Funlcello. NBC also passes out "Peacock hats" to the student body, engraved with each individual's name. A rumor circulating on campus Is that the University plans to change Its Leprechaun mascot to a Peacock: "The Fighting Peacocks." Coach Holtz ardently opposes this idea since it may require the team uniforms to be a rainbow of colors. Holtz says his players are "no wimpy peacocks." 
To draw more TV viewers, the University wants to Increase the grandiose spectacle of Its halftime show. The Navy game will be the first trial of the new "Spectacle magnlflque." Undisclosed sources report the University plans to rehire the "Dancing Elephants" used in the 1990 Orange Bowl to enhance this gala event. However, this change would Involve the training and hiring of a special "Elephant Dung" clean­up crew which would entail an additional In­crease In tuition. 
Monk disclosed to Disney that the similarities are "striking" and proposed a new task force, the "M_onkateers," to Investigate the matter 
further. 
Jeanne Blaslls assistant pTOt11tt131\-mtmager --­ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every thud Wednesday ln Accent. 

,
' 

Palestinian play delivers message of universal suffering and oppression 
Scenes from "Ansar: a play depicting Nidal Khatib's true life experiences in a Palestinian prison. The play will be at 
Saint Mary's on September 29. 
By KERRY COLLIGAN and DANIEL CASEY Accent Writers 
In December, 1987, an uprising began in Palestine. The Israeli government took action against the participants of the intifada, the uprising, arresting many of its members. 
In 1988, Nidal Khatib was arrested and detained for six months in Ketziot, although he was never formally charged, tried or convicted of any crime. Ketziot is a prison in the Negev Desert also known as Ansar 3. 
"Ansar," a production of Al­Masrah for Palestinian Culture and Art grew out of this and similar events. "Ansar" is a factual account of Mr. al-Khatib's experiences In prison. One other cast member, Ismail Dabbagh, joins him in portraying the horror and brutality of life at Ansar 3. 
In an article in the Baltimore Sun August 16, 1991, Haim Gordon, a Visiting Faculty Fellow at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, expressed his frustration at the rigid policies of the Israeli gov­ernment. 
These policies have resulted In a general feeling among the long-term inmates that, " .. :they are being forgotten by the world!" Gordon then stated, "In short, Israeli authorities have begun to rob the Inmates in Ketziot of the meaning of their past life." Feelings such as these are expressed graphically In the play, "Ansar." 
Mr. al-Khatlb's experiences ___ convey a message of " ... sacrifice, hope 'lnd of Insistence on human 
values and the struggle for freedom and for a better to­morrow." 
T h e s e messages are presented on stage in a sim­plistic manner. Hedy Weiss of the Chicago Sun-Times gives this description. "A brown canvas tent, projections of barbed wire fences, a relentless spotlight t~ conjure up the fierce desert sun." 
The play begins with the arrest and beating of prisoners. These beatings continue through the subsequent bus ride to Ansar. At Ansar, nearly everything is forbidden, and a new order of severe discipline is imposed. 
The prisoners attempt to maintain their Identity through protest. However, they meet with great adversity. Protests by the prisoners continue to occur as tension and emotional strain build among the detainees. 
"Ansar" delivers several important messages. The experiences of Mr. al-Khatib are, regretfully, not unique. "Ansar" attempts to deliver a universal message of suffering and op­pression. 
These messages and political commentaries are coming to Notre Dame along with other related events this weekend. Friday, September 27, 1991, the English Department will host a lecture by Barbara Harlowe, a 

-
specialist on the literature of oppressed peoples at the University of Texas. Her lecture entitled, "Palestinian Prison Culture" will be given at 4:00 
p.m. in 214 O'Shaugnessy. 
Sunday, September 29, 1991, the only performance of "Ansar" will be presented. The matinee begins at 2:00 p.m. In the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's College. Tickets are only $2.00 and may be purchased at the LaFortune Information Desk or at O'Laughlin's Box Office. 
The final event centering on the Theatre for Palestinian Culture and Art will be Monday, September 30, 1991. ~ the 
-
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium at 12:00 p.m., an informal discussion entitled "Theatre Under Occupation: The Case of 
Israeli Censorship and 
-
Palestinian Art" will be presented. All are welcome to attend. 
--~----­

--------------------------------, 
page 12 Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
The Observer accepts classified& wery business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next.<fay dassKieds Ia 3p.m. All dassKieds 
-
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
FOUND: A pair of glasses in a NEED 1 PITT GA VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) .,..#"#"#.#"#"#"#"#"#"# LOU on my forehead blue-gray glass case. (found Sheri x2191 BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. Notices between the library and PW) GA'S FOR HIS DOMER HEY P.W.-Stadium, Call Kevin at 283-2324 or at PLEASE HELPI I NEED 2 PITT RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS A camel well smoken, my 
•NOTRE DAME VIDEo• 277-9311. GA's. X-1750 Kyle ZIPLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR QUEEN WEEK IS HEREil friend. 
3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER New Movies: PITT TIX PITT TIX PITI TIX 1AM Come out and support your section Lowenstein Awakenings Wanted Alum needs 2 GA's for Pin. Will pay queen canidates. 
Dances with Wolves $$$. Call at work I NEED 5 TICKETS TO NO/PITT Way to go P.W. football Edwaed Scissorhands MAKE $150-$300 in 3-10 hrs. by (312) 701-6204 or at home BIG $$$ CALL MATT AT 277-The Schedule: New Jack City selling 50 funny college T-shirts. No (708) 616-7818 anytime. 4673 Undefeated II Home Alone financial obligation. Smaller or PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX Today-The World's slowest bike larger quantities available. Call '68 ALUM DESPERATELY race. Let's get psyched lor the Angels Special Membership Rates tollfree 1-800-728-2053. 2GA,s Stanford For Sale WANTS 2 GA'S TO In front of PW at 7pm (Knott! I) Available Now! Call John @4050 TENNORUSC Lafortune Student Center WANTED: Off-campus roommate. CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 Wed-Cartoon Nita. We're going all the way to the 4P.M.-11P.M. Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. NEEDED: SIX TENN. GAs In the Party room at 8pm stadium this year! I 
call Jeremy 277-4873 USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIllllll Desperately need ride lor Oct. DESPERATELY SEEKING PITT Thurs-Jello Tug-of-war and Wed. 8:00 on Cartier Field the 25% of! list price Break......;mywhere on LI,NY Need one Navy GAll~! AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM Barbeque. streak continues! 1G-5:30 everyday Please helpII X2172 Keri Ellen-277-4892 LIZ-3783 OR 2184 In Mod Quad at Spm Pandora's Books corner of NO All PWites come out and root lor ave& Howard BABYSITTER NEEDED WANTED: 2 NDfTN tickets. CAll Purdue tickets lor sale! Call Carrie and...the grand finale .... the Plaid Wave and see what our 
TUESDAYSfTHURSDAYS, 8-5 FOR 502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm @4029. fashion-conscious coaches will TYPING AVAILABLE ONE-YEAR OLD. MUST HAVE collect. The Road to Royalty SYR with a wear. 287-4082 OWN TRANSPORTATION. Mike needs PITT GAs x1450 coronation at Midnight. 
REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR AUDITIONSII NO VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL SUSAN 259-6006. NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL FOR SALE I 2 STU TIX BOOKS Get dates! Get psyched! and lor DRINKING GLASSES, $10. NOW COLLECT 614-459-0074 288-5859 Support your Queen Ill Wash. Hall Mainstage TAKING ORDERS. BETTY 239-BABYSITTER NEEDED EVERY EVENINGS. production of 7458 OR 289-1321 SUNDAY MQRNING FOR --2 PITT GA's NEEDED-THE CHRISTMAS CAROL 
CHURCH NURSERY. CALL JAN HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S & TENN ST. -BIGMONEY-on 9-29 and HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE. FOR MORE INFO. 291-4717. NEED 4 PITT GA'S. X2204. Call Rachel271-1497 WASHINGTON D.C. CLUBII111 9-30 at 7pm in the EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE, There will NOT be a bus going Library Auditorium EXCELLENT REFERENCES. PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA 2 PURDUE TIX FOR SALE home for Oct. break. REASONABLE DAILY RATE. CALL Now hiring drivers 1 0-40 hrs. per CHEAP X1659 ROB Have 6 tix to Stanford. WASHINGTON D. C. CLUBilll Questions?? call MELISSA 277-5708. wk. Wages+ tips + comm. Flexible Make offer. Sherry @ 289-7829 
schedules & perks. Call today 271-I have 2 NAVY GAs call x1563 SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? 1177. will trade for 2 PITT GAs Trying to beef up a meatless HEY KRISTEN IIIII! Lost and Found call Nicole at x3719 NEED 2 GA's FOR PITT, USC, resume? We can help with all sorts HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2 AND TENN. CALL GREG x2092 of editorial services. Happy 20th birthday to one of my 
LOST: Student J.D. card case BR house with Grad M. Avail NOW. I need tickets lor the Tennessee IDEAS INTO INK favorite M.E.'s. Too bad it had to wl temporary J.D., 288-3878 Lv msg. game. Call277-6693. I NEED USC tickets so bad I feel it 288-3508 rain on the beach party,but hey, it driver's license, and deep inside me. was fun while it lasted. Looking other cards belonging Guys with exp. in a cappella NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE Call me. hey nil forward to the formal. See ya at to Francis Kelly. singing: Too busy lor glee dub? Me CALL JILL 272-1967. Trish dinner. 
PLEASE return to 307 Carroll! too. I'd like to get together a quartet 289-7934 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. --the Dillon teddy bear or quintet to do doo-wopl jazz. No PLEASE Ill NEED 2 TIX FOR TENN Good rates. Save Money. Call me dubbers please. Man x1437 GAMEil X1684 Purdue GA's lor sale! Call P.l. x2859 for a quote 9:30-6:00, Two PURDUE tixll They're together. 
·········LosT··········· or Mike x1177 289-1993. Office near campus. Will sell @ costlll Black Leather Men's Wallet NEED 1 GA FOR PITTSBURGH Call Geo@ 1002. at the Common's -if you found it or For Rent JOE X1360 Need 3-4 PITT. TICKETS. Will LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes took it by accident pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396. every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Hey JD, 
PLEASE CALL BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY HAVE 2 Purdue GA's. x4092 Eastern time. Train and jump the They might be different sizes but Kristen Harknen 288-9421 219-291-7153 •• I NEED 2 NAVY GAs •• same day. Modem equipment and they're still both cute! WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 239-8332 training programs. Licensed 
House lor Rent TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL instructors. FFI call Skydive $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Found: EYEGLASSES on north $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. HAVE 2 PITT 2 NAVY TIX; Hastings (616) 948-2665. quad between BP and 8am-4pm. NEED 2 USC TIX; HelpII My big boss at work wants 4 Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &daim 1310 South Bend Ave. NOTRE DAME WILL SWAP 201-487-9000 JASMINE GROOVE Pin GA's and if I don't come 
TICKETS WANTED @ Club 23 Thursday, Sept. 26 through, 1t's gonna cost me my job! My girlfriend gave me a black, Furnished apts. near N.D. 271-1371 4 PURDUE GAs FOR SALE Ill Call me please X4970 Ann green and yellow bead before cozy 1 bedrm $255 Call Wendy x3731 her car wreck and I lost it dean 2 bedrm $340, CLUB 23 22 Sep about 7:15pm between dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320. TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS & SHUT ASS the Rocke and 06 parking. II RANDY 800-323-7687 WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE VIC'S SUBS you found it plz call David at NOTRE DAME AVE.2 GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097 289-3234. BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 Need 4 USC GA's are now open from Hey Bo, you broke my heart. Call Bill NEED 2 GAs FOR PITT 11 amto3am When's dinner. FOUND: Denim jacket in parking lot Wanted: Female apt. mate, 2-bdrm. x1143 CALL 284-5005 behind ACC on Saturday. Call apt. at Turtle Creek. Call 277-5463 The only alternative Jen M, da Bears got pretty lucky on x4076. after 6 pm. NEED 4 TENN GA'S. 288-9621 I HAVE 3 NAVY GA'S Live Music and Specials Monday night. Apparently, however, 
HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT MIKE x1161 (r Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) from what we hear, you are one of LOST: NO CLASS RING AT TIX, AND$$$$$ TO TRADE. Phone : 234-4015 the better blockers around. The SENIOR BAR OR LINEBACKER. For Sale People who haven't seen condoms question is, how good are you on 
BLACK ONYX WITH M.F. play football before need 4 USC the offensive? CARROLL INSCRIBED IN IT. CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill Selling std tix book GA's. Karen who played the hammer REWARD. CALL MIKE 271-8159. T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­232-1094 after 6 PM Call John at 283-168g at Ariel, please call x1563 Hey, the camping queen is going on Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone a hike this weekend and she's LOST Game Day Promotions 291-6394. NEED 8 PITT TICKETS FOR I am in desperate need of a ride to taking me along. Nicole, are you 
Gold colored class ring POOR RELATIVES. Personal CINCINNATI this weekend. Please bringing the marshmallows. AAAh between Fitzpatrick and Tappan Range -30" -White -CALL KEVIN X1589 call Sean at X1496. Flanner Electric-Almost New-$150-239-I am the Lizard King and I can do Look lor the Top 10 on Monday 
Please call Tom x1172 5510Days Need one Pin GA. X2172 ask for anything. ATTENTION CONVERTIBLE Love ANN Keri CAR OWNERS: 
COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr, $$$$ Interested in being a part of H LOST: RED, WHITE AND BLUE $700/bst John@271-9239 NEEDED! Pin GAs Navy stud. II Need GA's to all home games. Homecoming? I BIKE HELMET IN EITHER Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100 you can help call Scott 2373. have extra Purdue tix. Call Staph at x41.89for CUSHING OR O'SHAG ON 9111 386sx mthrbrd/upgrade your Call Tom x1563 details. s OR 9112. PLEASE CALLIIII PCI $350,386 notebook I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! T DAVID--271-8577 40megs, VGA, $2400/b CALL MIKE AT 1103. A 
Mattx1778 Happy birthday Joe Roberts. ADOPTION c FOUND men's gold watch in NEEDED: 2 TENN GA's lor Alum. Happy, loving couple wishes to raise y Fitz computer lab Wed. night Guitar Lessons Please call Susan: 284-4435 your white newborn with warmth & I (wow two in one weeki) calil1245 from NO Teacher low. Can provide financial security 
Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME Going to CLEVELAND this & education. Medical/legal LOST-MY LICENSE PLATE GAMES 273-1802 weekend? I might like a ride, expenses paid. Please answer our NEED PITT G.A.'S Illinois plate reading Boston-One way Ticket from please. Pete x1791. prayers by calling Help James & M.J. see a big N.D. 
"0 TROIT" lost Thurs. 19 Sept. Boston to South Bend on Oct.27. NEED 2 NAVY GAS Maureen & Jim win! (Oh yeah, we're really poor, so 
somewhere between Stanley Best offer. 273-9316 @284-5029 FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + 1-800-456-2656. don't take our food money lor the Kaplan Center (next to Turtle Creek) CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA, next week!) and the D-2 lot. PLEASE call if you BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON Call Liza x283-4825 have it or any information -it's going Tickets Need GA's for Pin., CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP + Top Ten reasons to wish Perry to cost a bundle to replace. Reward USC, and Tenn. BONUS CASHI FOUR SEASONS Osborn (KOOL) a happy 20th offered for return -no questions NEED 2GA OR 1ST0/1GA FOR Jay x1578 1-SOG-331-3136. birthday today: 
asked. Call 4911. USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. 10. He's the leading Jim Morrison Country music ruleslllllllllllllll 
HELPI Monica Eigelberger is a ho. fan on campus FOUND: SEIKO WATCH AT THE NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED 9. He watches Beverly Hills 90210 GROTTO. CALL & DESCRIBE 284-NAVY GAME. CALL MARK Please call Sam Santo at Are you going to PURDUE? I need and styles his hair like Dillon Jack and Suzanne Donnelly, 
5168. COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161. (201)217-0030 (home) or a ride. Beth x4341 8. He's last-REAL FAST (90.5mph) I thank you lor last weekend with 
(201) 992-8700 (work). 7. He can show you the exotic the FAT FAMILY. LOST: An Indiana driver's liscence NO FOOTBALL TICKETS nightlife of Germany Love, Kristin 
and St. Mary's J.D. Call Sara during WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 6. He wields a kick ass stethescope the day@ HEYII II I NEED PITT TIX AND Info on semester, year, graduate, 5. II you're nice to him, he'll invite 
(708) 866-8700 and in the evening WANTED: 3 PITT GA's lor MY DAD IS WILLING TO PAY BIG summer, and internship programs in you to his birthday party this Rich­@ (312) 281-5166. family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! BUCKS II CALL X2068 AND ASK Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and weekend in Lyons (please have it on Thanx for coming and picking out HELP MEl Dan x2349 FOR ANN MARIE Melbourne. Programs start at Saturday, ladies. Thanks) that picture lor mel LOST OR STOLEN $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 4. He ditched an entire day of class It looks like it is going to be an early 
LICENSE PLATE -USC TROJANS-I NEED to have cinnamon-brown highlights night. I am aiming for 2 am. Illinois plate reading -need SIX g.a.'s 2NAVYG.A.s put in his hair lor free "0 TROIT" missing since CALL R 0 B at x1845 LYNN x-3890 3. II you're really hot, he'll show you Da Bears rule! 4-0. How are those 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off FAST EASY INCOME I the proper way to give an enema Giants doing??? somewhere between Kaplan Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade I HAVE PURDUE TIX EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING 2. He's into naked greased twister, Educational Center (next to Turtle lor 4 Pin GA's. Call Colleen. x2525. CALL JIM X2341 ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­inflatable things, and grabbing Love, Me 
~::--,
ADDRESSED STAMPED

-
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's certain parts of one's anatomy 
1. Perry is the epitome of To all ~i ""'nds in PW 3A­
cute, but it will cost a bundle to Please help, I need TennGA's, call ENVELOPE TO: replace so PLEASE return if you Kevin @•1407. I'M SHIT OUT OF LUCK....UNLESS FAST INCOME --"FatirVeg-nu-~.~~112!:_ _ rlellol I hope you are all having have it and no questions will be YOU SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. P.O. BOX 541517 'machismo') good days! 
askedII II you have the plate or info, 

I NEED 4 TENNESSEE G.A.'S $$$ CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 HAPPY 20th PERRY Love, Marten call 4911. Generous reward offered. SEAN H. @289-6439. LOG From your Posse (the GANG) 

• 

Wednesday, September 25, 1991 SCOREBOARD page13 ... 
AMERICAN LEAGUE BASEBALL NATIONAL LEAGUE BASEBALL TRANSACTIONS 
I!ASEI!ALL  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Eut Dtvtaton w L Pet M·Pittsburgh 92 59 .609 St. Louts 79 73 .520 Chicago 72 7B 460 New York 72 7B 460 Philadelphia 72 BO .474 Montreal 67 B4 .444 Wut Dlvtalon w l Pet los Angeles B7 64.. .576 Atlanta BS 65 .567 San Diego 77 74 .510 Cincinnati 71 79 473 San Francisco 70 62 461 Houston 62 90 40B x-cllnched dtvtalon title z-danotu rtral gema Wll I  GB 13 112 19 1/2 19 t/2 20 1/2 25 68 I 1/2 10 IS 112 17 1/2 25 t/2 wtn.  LIO z-6-2 z-4-6 3-7 z-4-6 z-6-4 z-5-5 LIO z-7-3 S-5 z-6-4 z-3-7 z-6-4 4-6  Stree~ Won 3 Won I lost I Last 2 Won I lost Streak Won 2 lost 2 Won 3 lost Won lost  Home 47-26 47-30 43-36 37-40 43-34 33-35 Homa 50-25 45-30 36-36 36-37 40-35 37-40  Away 45-31 32-43 29-42 35-3B 29-46 34-49 Away 37-39 40-35 39-36 33-42 30-47 25-50  AMERICAN LEAGUE Eost Division w Toronto B3 Boston 61 Detroit 77 Milwaukee 73 New York 64 Baltimore 63 Cleveland 51 West Dlvlalon w Minnesota 91 Chicago 62 Oakland 79 Texas 76 California 76 Kansas City 76 Seattle 76  l 6B 69 73 76 66 B7 9B l 60 69 71 71 74 74 74  Pel .550 .540 .513 .490 .427 .420 .342 Pel .603 .543 .527 .523 .507 .50] .507  G8 LIO z-4-6 I 1/2 z-6-4 5 t/2 z-4-6 9 7-3 IB 112 z-4-6 19 1/2 z-5-5 31 5·5 G8 LIO z-6-4 9 S-5 11 112 z-5-5 12 4-6 14 112 6-4 14 112 4-6 14 t/2 z-6-4  struk Lost I Last 2 Won 2 won Lost I Won 1 lost 2 Streak Won 4 Lost 3 Won I Won I Won 3 Last I Lost 2  Homa 42-33 42-33 46-29 39-35 35-40 31-45 27-47 Homa 50-27 43-31 44-31 43-31 37-39 35-39 43-33  Away 41-35 39-36 31-44 34-41 29-46 32-42 24-51 Away 41-33 39-3B 35-40 35-40 39-35 41-35 33-41  Notional League ATLANTA BRAVES-Activated Oeton Senders outfielder. ' PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Sent Amelio Carreno. Darrel Akerrelds end Chuck Melone pitchers, end Sll Cempuuna, outfielder.' outright to Scranton-Wilkes-Barre or the InternetIonat League. 8ASKET8ALL National 801ketbel1 Auoclatlon CLEVELAND CAVAliERS-Signed Terrell Brandon, guard, to e 7-yeer contract. MIAMI HEAT-Signed Carlos Funchess, guard. World Basketball league DAYTON WINGS-Named Mike Sylvester coach; Pat Haley vice president of business operations; Bob Silbert a sst slant vice president of marketing and corporate sponsors, end Scott Torok assistant vice president far public end media. rehtlons.  
Monday'• Gomea Sl. Louts I 0, Montreal I, lsi game Montreal 5, St. Lout• I, 2nd game Chicago 10, Philadelphia 3 Houston 6, Sen Francisco 0 Tuuday'a Gamu Late Game Not Included Cincinnati et Allenta, ppd. rein Philadelphia 4, Chicago 2 Sl. Louts 4, Montreal 3 Pittsburgh 10, New York 8 San Francisco 9, Houston 7 Los Angeles at Son Otego, (n) Wadnudey'a Gemu Philadelphia (Greene 12-7) at Chicago (Boskle 4-B), 2:20pm Cincinnati (Armstrong 7-12 and Myers 6­13) ot Allonto (Smaltz 12-13 ond Avery 17-6), 2. 405 pm Pittsburgh (Smiley IB-6) ot New York (Cone 13-13), 740 pm Sen Francisco (Burkett 10-11) at Houston (Kill 7-9), 6 35 p m Montreal (Barnes 4-6) at Sl. Lours (Cormier 3-4), 8 35 pm Los Angeles (Ojeda I 1-6) at Sen Otego (Ilanes 13· I 0), I 0:05 p.m Thursday's Gomes Cincinnati ot All onto, 7 40 p m. Pittsburgh ot New York, 7.40 p m NHL PRESEASON SCHEDULE  AL LEADERS BATT I NG-Frenco, Texas, .342; Boggs, Boston, .332; Griffey Jr. Seattle, .331; Pelmelro, Texas, .325; Molitor, Milwaukee, .325; Tartebull, Kansas City, .323; Thomes, Chicago, .321; Puckett, Minnesota, .321, CRipken, Baltimore, .321 RUNS-Moll\or, Milwaukee, 120; Palmelro, Texas. 108; Censeco, Oakland, 108; Sierra, Te•os, 105; White, Toronto, 104; Franco, Te•os, 10 I; Thomas, Chicago, 9B. RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 128; Canseco, Oakland, I 13; Sierra, Texas. 109; Thomes, Chicago, 104; Carter, Toronto, 104; CRipken, Baltimore, I 0 I; JuGonzelez. Te••s. 99. HITS-Moll\or. Mllweuke·e. 197; CRipken, Baltimore, 191, Palmelro, Te•as, 190; Sierra, Texas, 190; Puckett, Minnesota, 187; Franco, Te•as, I 67; RAlomar, Toronto, 179. DOUBLES-Pelmetro, Texes, 46; Griffey Jr. Seo\\le, 42; Sierra, Te•os, 42; CRipken, Boltlmore, 42; Carter, Toronto, 41; Reed, Boston, 40; RAiomer, Toronto. 39; Boggs, Boston, 39. TRIPL£5-Molllor, Milwaukee, 12; RAiomor, Toronto, I I; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; McRee, Kansas City, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; Devereau•. Baltimore, 8; Mack, Minnesota, II; Polonle, California. 8. HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroit, 43; Censeco, Ooklond, 42; Corter, Toronto, 33; CRipken,  M-cltnched dtvtaton tttll Z·dlnOlll ftral geme Wet I Win. Mondey'l Gome1 Baltimore 4, Baston 3 Detroit 2, Cleve lend I New York 9, Milwaukee B Oakland 7, Kansas City 6 California 10, Toronto 9 Te•os II, Seattle 4, 11 Innings Tuudey'• Gemu late Gomes Not Included Boston et Baltimore, ppd., rein Detroit 7, Cleveland 2 Minnesota 9, Chicago 2 Mil waukee 5, New York 4 Kansas City at Oakland, (n) Toronto at California, (n) Texas at Seattle, (n) Wednudey'a Gamu Kansas City (Boddlcker 12-12) et Oakland (Welch 11-12), 3:15pm. Texas (Ryan I I -6) at Seattle (Delude 12­1I), 3:35 p.m. Toronto (Key 15-11) at California (Langston 17-7), 4:05p.m. Boston (Clemens I 7-6 ond. Bolton B-8) at Baltimore (Johnson 4-6 and Mllackl I 0-8), 2, 5:05p.m. Cleveland (Jones 3-7) at Detroit (letter B­5), 7:35 p.m. New York (Sanderson 15-10) at Milwaukee (Plesec 2-7), B:OS p.m. Chicago (Fernandez 6-12) o\ Minnesota (Anderson S-9), 6:35p.m. Thursday's Games Cleveland et Detroit, 7:35p.m. New York at Milwaukee, B:OS p.m. California at Kansas City, 6:35p.m. Te•as o\ Oakland, 10:05 p.m.  NL LEADERS BATTING-Morris, Cincinnati, .321; TGwynn, Son Otego, .317; Pendleton, Atlanta, .3 14; McGee, Sen Francisco, .312; Jose, St. Louts, .30B; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, .305; Larkin, Cincinnati, .302. RUNS-Butler, Las Angeles, I OS; Johnson, New York, 103; Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 96; Sandberg, Chicago, 96; Gent, Atlanta, 91; JBell, Plttoburgh, 90; OSmlth, St. Louis, 69. RBI-Johnson. New York, lOB; Bonds, PIttsburgh, I 06; WC lark, Sen Franc! sco. lOS; McGriff, Sen Otego, 100; Dawson, Chicago, 100; Gent, Atlanta, 97; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 94. HITS-Butler, las Angeles, 172; Pendleton, Atlanta, 169; TG.wynn, Sen Qlego, 166; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 166; Jose, St. Louts. 165; Grace, Chicago, 162; Sandberg, Chicago, 162. DOUBLES-Bonlllo, Pittsburgh, 42; Jose, St. Louts, 40; O'Neill, Ctnclnne\1, 35; Zelle, St. Louts, 33; Morris, Cincinnati, 32; Sebo, Cincinnati, 32; Gent, Atlanta, 32; McReynolds, New York, 32. TRIPLES-lenkford, St. Louts, IS; TGwynn, Sen Diego, II; Finley, Houston, ro; LGonzelaz, Houston, 8; Grlssam, Montreal, 8; JBell, Pittsburgh, 7; Candeele, Houston, 7; Pendleton, Atlanta. 7; Von Slyke, Pittsburgh, 7; Owen, Montreal, 7. HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 36; Gent, Atlanta, 30; MeWIIItems, Sen Francisco, 30; McGriff, Sen Diego, 29; Dawson, Chicago,  Continental Basketball Association ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Gary Battle, guard, to • 1-year contract. BAKERSFIELD JAMMERS-Named Herman Kull coach. LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Troy Truvllllon end Keto Armstrong. guards, end David Willard, center. TRI-CITY CHINOOK-Named Peul Downing heed athletic trainer. FOOTBALL Neltonel Football Lugue BUFFALO BILLS-Placed James Williams, cornerback, on Injured reserve. GREEN BAY PACKERS-Activated Louts Cheek, offensive linemen, from Injured reserve Waived Scott Janes, offensive tackle. HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Gary Wellman. wide receiver. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Placed Rodney Thomes, cornerback, on InJured reserve. Pieced Marcus Dupree, running back, on the practice roster. Released Corwin Anthony, tight end, end Trevor Ryals, center, from the practice roster. PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Agreed to terms with Greg Lloycf, linebacker. Re-signed Rick Strom, quarterback. Canadien Football League BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Released Ken Watson. defensive beck. EDMONTON ESKIMOS-Ac\1 veted Rob Davidson, defensive tackle, from the Injured list. Released Jerry Kaurtc, kicker. HOCKEY Neltonel Hockey League EDMONTON OILERS-Signed Ese Tlkkenen, left wtng, to a 6-year contract. HARTFORD. WHALERS-Assigned Marla Gosselin and Jim Crozier, goaltenders; Jergus Boca. Corey Beeuteau. VIncent Boe,  
Monday'• Gamu N Y. Rangers 4, New Jersey 3 Quebec vs. Toronto o\ Kllchener, Ontorlo, ccd. power failure Mlnnuoto 4, Winnipeg I Tuudey'• G1m11 Toronto 3, Calgary I Washington 6, Hartford 3 New Jersey 2, N.Y. Islanders San Jose 4, Quebec 3 St Louts 8, Detroit 5 Edmonton 3, Winnipeg 2. OT Wednuday'a Gemu Calgary at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia at Hertford, 7:35pm. Sl. Louts at Winnipeg, 8·35 p.m. Pittsburgh vs. Los Angeles at Portland, Ore., I 0 35 p.m. Thursday's Gamea NV Rangers vs Boston at Atlanta, 7:35 pm Hertford at Philadelphia, 7:35pm. San Jose vs Minnesota at Kalamazoo, Mlch. 7:35pm.  Baltimore, 31, Thomas, Chicago, 30; Tertabull, Kansas City, 29; Belle, Cleveland, 26; Tettleton, Detroit, 26; CDavts. Minnesota, 26. STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 51; Reines. Chicago, SO; RAiomar, Toronto, 49; Polonle, California, 46; Cuyler, Detroit. 37; White, Toronto, 33; Franco. Texas, 31. PITCHING (IS OICIIIOni)-Heske\h, Boston, 11-4, .733, 3.21; Erickson, Minnesota, 19-7, .731, 3.32; Longston, Coltrornle, 17-7, .708, 2.94; Clemens, Boston, 17-6, .660, 2.43; Gullickson, Detroit, 19-9, .679, 3.94; Tepenl, Minnesota, 16-B, .667, 2.B7; JoGuzman, Texas, 12-6, .667, 3.20. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 217; RJohnson, Seattle, 216; McDowell. Chicago, 166. Ryon, Te•as, 179; Langston, California, 165; Candlo\tl, Toronto, 163; Swindell, Cleveland, 161. SAVES-Harvey, California, 43; Eckersley, Oakland,. 41; Agullero, Minnesota. 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Henke, Toronto, 32; Olson, Baltimore, 30; Montgomery, Kansas  NL PENNANT RACE PENNANT RACES Wut Dtvtaton w l Pel. Gl! los Angeles 67 64 .576 Atlanta 65 65 • .567 1 112 Ramelnlng Gemu ATLANTA ( 12)-Home (6): Sept. 25 (DH), 26, Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houston. Awoy (6): Sept. 27-29, Houston; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, Ctnclnnetl. LOS ANGELES (II)-Home (6): Sept. 27­29, San Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, San Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, Sen Otego;  26; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; KvMttchell, Sen Francisco, 27. STOLEN 8A.SES-Ntxon, Atlanta, 72; Grissom, Montreal, 70; DeShields, Montreal, 55; Bands, Pittsburgh, 41; Lankford, st. Louts, 3B; Butler, Los Angeles. 38; Colemon, New York, 37. PITCHING (15 Declalon•l-Rijo, Cincinnati, 14-5, .737, 2.41; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 16-6, .692, 3.29; MIWilllems Philadelphia, 11-5, .6B7, 2.14; Avery.' Atlanta, 17-B, .660, 3.32; Hurst, Sen Otego, 15-8, .652, 3.29; Gooden, New York, 13-7, .650, 3.60; Glevlne, Atlanta, 19-11, .633, 259. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 209; GModduM, Chicago, 16 I; Glevlne, Atlanta, 177; Harnisch, Houston, 164; Benes, Sen Diego, I 5 I; Gooden, New York, ISO; Greene, Philadelphia, 149; Rljo, Cincinnati, 149. SAVES-leSmlth, St. Louts. 42; Dibble, Cincinnati, 30; MIWilllems, Philadelphia, 26; Franco, New York, 27; Righetti, Sen Francisco, 24; Lefferts, Sen Otego, 22; BLendrum, Pittsburgh, 17; DeSmith,  Cam Breuer, Jim Burke, Shewn Evans, Scott Humenluk, Karl Johnston end John Stevens defensemen; Blair A\cheynum end Chrl~ Tenclll, right wings; Paul Cyr, Scott Daniels and Chris Govedarts, left wings; end James Bleck, Chris Bright, Dents Chalifoux, Kelly Ens end Kerry Russell, centers. to Sprlngflald of the American Hockey League. Returned Steve Yule, defenseman, to Kemloops of the Western Hockey League; Martin Hemrllk, defenseman, to Zlln of the Czechoslovakian League; and Mike Lenerduzzt, goaltender, to Sault Ste. Marte or the Onterlo Hockey L10gue. ST. LOUIS BLUES-Returned Steve S\elos. defenseman, to Niagara Falls or the Ontario Hockey League. Assigned Brien Pellerin, Jason Ruff, Yves Heroux, Richard Pion. Oerek Frenette, Mark Hassen, Joe Hawley end Den Fowler, forwards; Greg Pass, Jean Lutk, Terry Hollinger end Rob Tus\lan, defensemen; end Alain Raymond, David Schill end Francis Ouelette, goaltenders, to Peoria of the International Hockey League. WASHINGTON CAP ITALS-Assl gned Byron  

City, 30; Thigpen. Chicago, 30. Oct. 4-6, Sen Francisco. Chicago, 17; Berenguer, Atlanta. 17.
St Louts at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
managemen~ Systems Division 
Pizza Party! Wednesday, Sept 25 at 7:00 PM Morris Inn · Alumni Room 
If your major is: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, MBA Learn more about career .opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
DeFoe. Alain Hervey, Olaf Kolztg and Shewn Simpson, goaltenders; Bob Babcock, Wade Bartley, Chris Clerke, Mark Ferner, Rob Leask, Ken Lovsln, Jim Mathieson, Mark Sorenson, Jlrl Vykoukel, defensemen; Cretg Duncanson, VIctor Gervais, Trevor Halverson, Todd Hlushka, Bill Kovacs, Steve Martell, Harry Mews, Oave Morissette, Randy Pearce, John Purves, Bobby Reynolds, Reggie Savage, Steve Sertel, Tim Taylor, Riehle Walcott. Simon Wheeldon, forwards, to Baltimore or the American Hockey league. SOCCER Major Soccer League BALTIMORE BLAST-Signed Weed Hlrmez, forward, to a 1-yeer contract. TRACK AND FIELD THE ATHLETIC CONGRESS-Named Dale Neuburger director at admlnlttretlon. COLLEGE DIVISION 1-A ATHLETIC DIRECTORS ASSN.­Nemed Cedric Dempsey, Arl zone, first vice president; Jim Jones. Ohio Slate. second 
-
vice president; Warner Alford, Mississippi, third vice president; Glen Tuckett, llrlghem Young, secretary; Gary Cunningham, Fruno State, treasurer; and Gene Hooks Wake Forest, ex1cutlve vice president. ' THE CITADEL-Named Bill Spake tennis coach. CLEMSON-Placed Arthur Bussie, defensive lineman, on probation ror the rest or his enrollment end order~hlm to perform community service as assigned by the student development office. OREGON-Suspended Oeryle Smith, cornerback, Indefinitely for disciplinary reasons. ST. MICHAEL'S COLLEGE-Named Darryl Hilliard men's assIstant basketball coach. SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE-Named Jon ChOboy men's end women's Interim tennis coach. 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
Twins magic number down to 3 Bengals want to reverse trend 
Twins 9, White Sox 2 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Scott Erickson had a no-hitter until Dan Pasqua homered in the seventh inning and went on to record his 19th win Tuesday night, as the Minnesota Twins reduced their magic number to three with a 9-2 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Kent Hrbek capped a four­run second inQ.ing with a two­run homer off Jack McDowell (17-10), as the AL West-leading Twins took a nine-game lead over second-place Chicago with 11 to play. Minnesota can clinch a share of the division title Wednesday night, when they again host the White Sox. 
Tigers 7, Indians 2 

-
DETROIT-The Detroit Tigers kept their meager pen­nant hopes alive and Scott Aldred earned his third major league win in a 7-2 triumph 
over the Cleveland Indians. 
The Tigers broke the game open with four runs off rookie Charles Nagy (10-13) in the frrst 
Weldon perfect for Florida State 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­Casey Weldon's record at Florida State is perfect since taking over as the Seminoles' quarterback in the middle of last year. 
Weldon, the nation's top­ranked passer heading into Saturday's game at Michigan, has led Florida State to nine straight victories since replac­ing Brad Johnson last season. 
"For me, that's my ultimate goal to win each game," Weldon said Tuesday. 
Directing one of the nation's most explosive offenses, Weldon has completed 75 per­cent of his passes in victories. over Brigham Young, Tulane and Western Michigan. 
Since becoming a starter, he has completed 65 percent of his passes for .2,011 yards and 15 touchdowns. He has 628 yards, seven touchdowns and no inter­ceptions this season. 

Although he started in victo­ries last season over Florida and Penn State, the biggest test is Saturday before 107,000 fans at Michigan. 
"Hopefully, we'll go in there and live up to expectations," said Weldon. "We're going to try to score every chance we get because we know they're capable of it." 
Weldon has done so well running the offense, he has been given additional play-call­

• ing latitude. 
"I like the way he handles and works with our ball team," said coach Bobby Bowden. "He doesn't mind getting after them, but he knows how to handle them. He's very like­able." 
"He was a natural passer when he got here. The things he can continue to improve on is the mental part of the game." , 
Weldon was redshirted in 1987 after a highly successful prep career at tiny North Florida Christian High School located about five miles from the Florida State campus. 
"He was the frrst great ath­lete we ever had here," said Vic Culley, Weldon's position coach in high school. "We knew right 

.... away he was a special athlete, but we didn't know what a big time athlete was until he had graduated." While Weldon lives out a childhood fantasy of quarter­backing the Seminoles, there was a time he thought about giving up his boyhood dream 
and transferring to another school. 

and Mickey Tettleton hit a two­run homer, his 28th, in the fifth. 
Aldred (2-3), making his lOth start since his Sept. 1 re­call, allowed nine hits in 8 1-3 innings, including Albert Belle's 28th homer in the ninth, before he was literally knocked out of the game by a line drive off the bat of Carlos Martinez. The ball skipped into center field and Martinez wound up with a dou­ble. Jerry Don Gleaton came in to get the last two outs. 
Pirates 10, Mets 8 NEW YORK -Howard Johnson broke his own NL record for home runs by a switch hitter with his 27th. Daryl Boston added a grand slam for the Mets on Tuesday night, but Pittsburgh got 17 hitS and held off New York 10-8. 
Frank Viola of the Mets re­mained winless in nine starts since July 8. 
Phlllles 4, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO-Andy Ashby (1­
4) won for the first time in six 
CINCINNATI (AP) -They Cincinnati Bengals know what they have to do to break out of their 0-4 tailspin. 
They'll have time to figure out how to do it. The AFC Central Division is off this Sunday, giving the Bengals two uninterrupted weeks to ponder their worst start in seven years. 
"Anytime you have one week after a loss, it's really long," offensive lineman Anthony Munoz said. "Now we have two. It's going to be a long two weeks until we play Seattle." 
"We have two weeks off to think about what happened the last four weeks," quarterback Boomer Esiason said. "We're all hurting. This really stinks, being 0-4." 
Their 34-27 loss Sunday to the Washington Redskins left them one of four winless NFL teams. They're 0-2 in the AFC Central, which they won last year, and trail Houston by three games. 
There were a few encourag­ing signs Sunday, primarily on offense. The Bengals overcame a 17 -point deficit in the second half with their most productive game of the season -they'd scored just 34 in their first three games. 
"We put 27 points on the board. That's something we're a little more accustomed to," Esiason said. "We got a chance to use our speed outside. We threw the ball to everyone on the field. That's the type of of­fense we're accustomed to." 
The offense again self-de­structed with penalties and dropped passes, the defense let an opponent drive for the win­ning score in the closing min­utes again, and the special teams allowed a punt return for a touchdown. 
There were enough mistakes Sunday to make the next two weeks very long. 
"You want to have a good week where you have a win be­hind you and everybody's happy and excited," Walter said. "Now, everybody's got to keep their heads up. It's going to be tough." 


major league starts, allowing three hits in seven innings, and Mitch Williams finished with one-hit relief for his 29th save. 
Mike Bielecki (13-11) lost his third consecutive start, allowing four runs and six hits in five innings. 
Philadelphia took a 3-0 lead in the first on Wes Chamberlain's run-scoring groundout, Dave Hollins' RBI double and Dale Murphy's sac­rifice fly. Hollins added an RBI single in the third. 
cardinals 4, Expos 3 
ST. LOUIS-Catcher Gilberto Reyes, eenter fielder Marquis Grissom, shortstop Tom Foley and pitcher Chris Haney (3-6) made errors that led to four unearned runs. 
Omar Olivares (10-6) gave up three runs and seven hits in seven innings and Lee Smith finished for his league-leading 43rd save, tying Rich Gossage for third place on the career list at 308. 
12reasons 
whyyou'lllove 
......,..dntosh 
tonight-even ifyou've never used acomputer before. 
2. You don't hllve to speak 
~t:JI 
Instead ofci)IJ/ic MS-DOS commt~nds such as COPY C 
WORDPEIOCIDRAFT.DOC.t\WORK, Macintosh uses famdiar U<JTds, such as Opy and Pnnl. andpictures, such asfiiR folders for storing your documents and atrash can forfiles yau want to throwaway. 
3. You don't hllve to be a computerscience major to set one up. 
Just plug everything together, flip the "on" switch, and you're ready to roll. 
4. H'• a breeze to copy lnfonnatlon and pane it into another document. 
To copy lh~ chart. . simply use the 
-
-
mouse to choose 
-
the Copy CDmmtlnd. . 
-
-
. 
. 
. 
To piacR the chart 
• 
-­in another document, just choose ihe Paste command. 
5. All Macinto.tl program• work In the umeway. Learn to use one Macintosh program, and you've learned the basics of using them all. For example, the commands you use, such as Open, Close, Copy, Paste, Save, Cut, Print, 
and Undo, are found in the same place­every time. 
6..It cangrowwithyou. 
This week you're majoring in philosophy, next week it's nuclear physics. After all, no one knows exaaly what the future will bring. That's why millions ofstudents have found that invest· ing in aMacintosh is asmart move. Because Macintosh can immediately help you do what· ever you do-better. And if, come tomorrow, you find that you want to do something different, no problem. It's easy to upgrade your Macintosh to help you rise to the challenge. 
7. It's great for college and beyond. Doing your work faster, better, and more creatively is also aplus 
computers are
~~~~%0 
used in 7 4 percent of Fortune 1000 companies.' 
a. It's got connection•. To connect aprinter, amodem, an external hard disk, or just about any other peripheral to aMacintosh, simply plug it in. That's all there is to it. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STOI~E 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
or software. 

11. You can connect to your school'• mainframe or 
minicomputer. 
With Madntosh, you can send in assignments, gain access to software you need for aclass, and receive lecture notes, class schedules, and other information­. right from your '

m
Oof'mltor~
own room. 

12. It's more affordable than ever. 
Macintosh prices have never been lower­especially with the student pricing available from your authorized Apple campus reseller. You may even qualify for financing, which makes Macintosh even more affordable. These reasons all add up to the , power of Macintosh. The power .. to be your best~ ... 

C> 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo,l.oca!Talk, Madmosh, and 'The power robe your best" arc rcgastered trademarks of Apple Compu1er, Inc.. _ . SuperDrive is atrademark of Apple Computer, Inc. IBM and OS/2 arc regt.~tered tradernarX.s of International Business Machines Corpomr.ion. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of M1crosoft Corpor.nmn. 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 The ObseNer page 15 
--------------------~~~=---------~------~--------------~~~ 

Exceeding Expectations 

At Deloitte & Touche, our mission is To learn more about how we 
can exceed your expectations, 
to consistently exceed the expectations of 
stop by and see us. 

our clients and our people. 
Event: Beta Alpha Psi Presentation For you, this means unlimited opportunities Date: October 2, 1991 to grow, professionally and personally. Location: La Fortune Hall, 
Montgomery Theatre 

So why not join a firm that will exceed your 
Time: 7:00p.m. 

•·
expectations? 

Deloitte& 
Member 

....
--·1 . I Touche
iin i nternat10na 

Delolttc & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or Irrelevant handlc'aps. 
-·-.. -...... 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
SPORlS BRIEFS

.. West bests East in Women's lnterhall 
•For anyone Interested In trying out for the Notre Dame
Lewis, Seigfried, Walsh, Breen-Phillips notch victories 
men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 
By ELAINE J.C. DEBASSIGE 
Sports Writer 
P.W. 9, P.E. 6 
In the battle between the Pasquerilla's, West pulled out a victory over East, 9-6. 
Both teams had a tough time in the season opener. After the freshness of the season wore off, however, both teams got down to business. 
On their rrrst drive, P.W.'s of­fense moved the ball to within field goal range and Amy Robs kicked a 22-yarder. 
P.E. was able to score on a reverse to Nikkie Bright. However, it was not enough to pull past the Plaid Wave, as a stellar defensive play was turned in by Jennifer Marten, who blocked an extra point at­tempt. 
P.W. was down 6-3 until Gail Carey caught a touchdown pass from rookie quarterback, Bethany Riddle to secure to win in the second half. 
P.E. will try and improve their record tonight when they play Farley. P.W. hopes to stay on track in their game versus Knott. 
Lewis 6, Farley 0 
Lewis held off a tough Farley team in overtime to win 6-0. The only score of the game came from a 5-yard pass to Julie Fleck. They were unable to score on the two point con­version. 
The solid Chicken defense was led by sophomore linebacker, Megan Heyward. Lewis hopes their defense stays tough in their next match against Seigfried. 
Farley will regroup and pre­pare for their next game against the P.E. Pyros. 
"The execution was not what we expected. We expect a def­inite improvement," said Farley coach, Doug Orsagh. 
Selgfrled 6, Knott 0 
In double overtime, Seigfried managed to shutout Knott, 6-0. Freshman quarterback, Marcela McNeil ran for the only touchdown of the game. McNeil was aided in her touch­down by an earlier key recep­tion by Colleen Knight. 


The Seigfried Slammers' de­fense came through early in the game with an interception by Megan Frost. 
Knott's defense also did an excellent job. Now that they have a game under their belt, they expect some improvements against P.W. tonight. 
Walsh 14, Badin 8 
This matchup was the highest scoring game Sunday at Cartier. Walsh edged Badin, 14-8. 
It was long and quick drives that pulled Walsh over the top. Millie Vallace was the first to score for Walsh. She caught a long pass from quarterback Mimi Gibbons. 
Jacquelyn Logue burned Badin when she escaped for a 40-yard run in overtime. The 
Logue touchdown was just enough to get Walsh past Badin. 
Badin faces Off-Campus Sunday in hope of improving their record. 
B.P. 8, Off-Campus 0 
In a surprising victory, the Blitz blasted Off-Campus in a game led by a strong and young defense. 
Freshman tailback, Megan Duffy, made the only touchdown in the contest. She had a 30­yard run on a pitch. The two­point conversion came when Lynn Irving connected with Lisa Peterson. 
Both teams will head up their second games Sunday at Cartier. 

... 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Jerusalem 
Spring 1992 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 15, 1991 
STUDENT SPEAKERS 
And Jerusalem Program Director, Sr. Mary Aquin O'Neill 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 4:30P.M. 105 O'Shaughnessy 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 


in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 
•Public 
skating Is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 

•Women's 
Ice Hockey: Anyone with or without hockey experience who can skate and is interested in playing should contact Molly at 283-2685. 

•Water 
polo team members must have their insurance forms in by Wednesday, September 25. Everyone must have this done before we can go to the Dayton Tournament on Friday, September 27. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball warm-up tourney: sign-ups for the 5 on 5 tourney are from 3 to 5 p.m. today in the Junior Class Office. Each team must consist of at least 3 juniors. $5 per team. 

•Meet 
new coach John Macleod and the 1991 Irish basketball team and have some pizza tonight at 9:00 p.m. at Theodore's. 


•The first lnterhall cross-country meet will be today at 
4:45. Check-in at the golf course at 4:30. Contact your captains with any further questions. 
•Varsity rowers: All money including dues {$35) and Ohio ($45) are past due. Bring the money to practice or contact Heidi at 283-4286. 
ease recyc e. 
Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. 
Thank you. 
What is an Urban Plunge??? 
Come to an information meeting: 
7:00-7:30pm 
September 25th (Wed.) 
Center for Social Concerns 
(48 hour inner city experience over Christmas Break) 

RACQUETBALL SINGLES lUMEN IHWOMEN GRAD/FAC .\tEN GRAD/FACWOMEN 
CO-REC INNERTUBE WATERPOLO 
CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE 
DEADLINE -OCTOBER 2 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 The Observer , page 17 
won," said Brown. "We didn't
Irish women destroy Siena Heights Saints V-ball 
play a great match, but they 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer  point was that we were not playing well."  about the two goals we let up, and the mistakes that they came from," Petrucelli added,  continued from page 20 and fourth games,"  said  
The Saints recovered from  "Also, we decided to move the  Redbird coach Julie Morgan.  
After overcoming a slow start and a first half scare, the  the quick score, and scored on their first two shots against  ball up quickly, and draw their sweeper out. The speech was  "They made the necessary adjustments and got back on  
Notre Dame women's soccer  freshman goalie Kim Gold, who  more tactical than motiva­ track."  
team went on to dominate an  was making her first start for  tional."  
overmatched Siena Heights team, 11-2. In doing so, they upped their record to 4-0-2.  Notre. Dame. The Siena Heights lead was short-lived. The Irish seemed  Overall, it was a great all­around performance, and ev­eryone with the exception of  It looked like the comeback would be completed In the fifth game. Taking advantage of the rally scoring format (points are  
"I was glad to see us finish off the opportunities we created for ourselves," a relieved Irish  to wake up and five minutes after the Saints' second goal, Stephanie Porter scored her  Michelle Lodyga, the Irish's starting goalkeeper, saw some playing time. Eight different  scored regardless of which team is serving), the Irish grabbed an 11-6 lead, and  
coach Chris Petrucelli said after  sixth goal of the season, when  players scored goals, including  Illinois State called time out.  
the game, "You have to be happy any ~e you score that many goals.  she put In a rebound off a Susie Zilvltis shot. Hartwig and Zilvitis each  Hartwig, Porter, and Tasha Strawbridge, who each scored twice.  But that's when the Redbirds made a comeback of their own, rattling off six points In a row  
After Jodi Hartwig scored the first of her two goals 45 seconds Into the game, the Irish got a little careless, and ap­peared as if they would be in for a challenge.  added goals before the end of the half, to give the Irish a 4-2 lead at the intermission. A more aggressive and in­spired Irish team emerged in the second half, as they scored seven goals and limited Siena  • Petrucelli was particularly to seize the momentum. pleased with the play of his Fittingly, the match ended on bench. · one last Notre Dame error, and the Redbirds had pulled the "They all did a great job," he upset. said, "They all showed that they I · can play, which is something I "I'm not walking out of here  
"I felt that we would win all  Heights to two shots on goal.  already knew.  If they weren't  saying, 'Boy, Illinois State is so  
along," Petrucelli said, "What I was concerned about at one  "At halftime,  we  talked  able to they wouldn't be on this team."  good,' but tonight, they were better than we were, and they  

EYY 
'' •• LOOKIN' FOR SOME ACTION? 
·~· 

THI; FIGHTING 
Ill IRISH 

Thursday, September 26 
Men's Soccer vs. Indiana Hoosiers 7:30pm, School Field 
School Field is located on Eddy Street Less than 1 mile south of ND campus 
showed a lot of confidence and poise, coming back like they did in the fifth game. 
"We didn't side out a couple of times (at 11-6) and then the team got nervous. We didn't .show the poise we have in past games. A couple of times the ball hit the floor and we didn't have people going to the floor, and that is uncharacteristic of this team. 
"We just froze a little bit," Brown concluded. "We defi­nitely had our opportunities, but we didn't capitalize." 
Notre Dame now has three days to recover before travel­ling to Oxford, Ohio on Friday and Saturday for the Miami of 
Barton  ......  
continued from page 20  
team. Nothing seems to bother  
her. We'll be cutting back her  
fall schedule to keep her strong  
in the spring. I think she will  
have a good year." •  
Notre Dame Is not ranked in  
the current preseason poll, but  
Barton stands at 23rd in the  
nation In singles. The Irish  
open their season with the Irish  
Invitational on Oct. 4-6, but  
Barton will have an early start,  
as she will be competing In the  
National Clay Courts this week  
in North Carolina .  
During the past few seasons,  
Barton has had nagging arm  
injuries, and because of this,  
she took the whole summer off.  
She just started practicing this  
past week, and now will be  
playing on the clay with the top 32 players In the country.  
"I'm kind of nervous," she  
said, "since I haven't played a  
match since May, but it can't  
hurt playing against the top  
people. I'm going to take it slow  
in the fall and see what  
happens so I can play every­ 
thing in the spring."  
Don't look for the layoff to  
slow her down, though, and ex­ 
pect her to be stronger each  
match. This year's schedule Is  
again full of potential top-25  
teams, but no matter who she  
plays, Barton Is capable of  
pulllng out a win. She proved  
that last year In the National  
Indoors, upsetting then eighth­ 
ranked Eveline Hamers 6-2, 6­ 
3 In what she called her biggest  
win.  
Although she doesn't foresee  
a career in tennis because of  
her arm, Barton would like to  
keep her Involvement in the  
game on a different level.  
"I would like to go to gradu­ 
ate school and then teach ele­ 
mentary school," said Barton.  
"I could see myself teaching  
tennis or being a college coach.  
Hopefully, I could start out as  
an assistant coach In graduate  
school."  
This year's Irish team is again  
loaded with talent, losing only  
one senior from last year's  
squad, and with Barton leading  
the way, the Irish have the po­ ..  
tential to surprise quite a few  
people.  
"Hopefully," said Barton,  
"we'll be able to get Into the top  
20 and stay there, and pull off  
some big wins as a team."  

ONLY YOU 

CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES. 
-. 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
RecSports means more diversity for ND students 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the last of a two-part series concerning the Rec Sports Program. 
Although intramural and club sports form the lifeblood of Rec Sports, as evidenced by its re­cent name change, the addition of the recreational services di­vision in the 1980's has added a new dimension to the depart­ment. 
"We're more than just athlet­ics now," said Rec Sports Director Tom Kelly. "We've made an effort to offer more than just competitive sports." 
The new division came into formal existence in 1983 when Sally Derengoski was added to the full-time staff. Her mission: to develop a program that would provide the Notre Dame student body with fitness op­portunities outside the realm of organized sports. 
"It is designed to be made up of non-competitive or low-com­petitive activities, more social and educational in nature," she explained. "Many programs have an instructional aspect to them." 
The division itself is made up of four components. The first are the fitness and wellness programs coordinated by Dianne Patnaude that Rec Sports offers-aerobics, body­fat testing, a newsletter-not only to students but to faculty and staff in conjunction with the Human Resources Department 
Second, there are the outdoor recreation activities such as cross-country and downhill skiing, scuba diving, and horseback riding. Third, there are the special events, including the department's most important and most special, Late Night Olympics. 
"It's the one chance the entire year that the student body can take over virtually every square foot of this building," Derengoski said. "The fact that we do this for the good of others (all proceeds go to the Saint Joseph's County Special Olympics) makes it especially pleasing." 
Finally, Derengoski coordi­nates all the social activities that Rec Sports may offer, but as she explained, "these are not mutually exclusive categories." 
As the newest division of Rec Sports, the recreational ser­vices area can experiment more than the other two. Firearms training, procuring a climbing wall for the university, and archery clinics are just some of the off-the-beaten-path activities Derengoski is planning. 
"It absolutely is the most ex­pansionary division," she claims. "That's not to brag, ei­ther. Unlike our intramurals program-which is well-estab­lished-this is the area that can be a little more creative and feature some innovative pro­gramming. It's fun to have a

• brand new program that's dif­ferent from anything else." 
The club division is headed up by Assistant Director Rich O'Leary. In his 21st year, O'Leary is in charge of divying up the $20,000 budgeted by the athletic department for club sports among the 10 clubs which fall under Rec Sports' authority. 
These clubs are boxing, gym­nastics, rowing, rugby, sailing, skiing, men's volleyball, water polo, and two new additions this year, equestrian and syn­chronized swimming. Other clubs on campus which have expressed interest in joining the fold, according to O'Leary, include the cricket, water skiing, squash and cycling clubs. 

"Every club registers with student activities, but some of the athletic clubs are not in­volved in competition with out­side clubs from other universi­ties," O'Leary explained. "The ones that do want to compete can qualify for assistance from the athletic department." 
Rec Sports uses a propor­tional funding system, meaning -that it determines what the "essential needs" of the club are in order to field a competi­tive team. It then takes the total amount it has to spend and assigns a percentage according to these needs to each club. 
"Most of their needs are based on the amount of travel that is necessary for a typical schedule," O'Leary said. "That's just for transportation; it doesn't include lodging or meals." 
Rec Sports also provides fa­cilities for the teams-such as Stepan Field for the rugby team-wh.atever equipment that can be shared among the clubs-such as a recently pur­chased portable scoreboard-and secretarial services. 
But the most important help Rec Sports provides according to O'Leary is logistical advice. 
"The biggest plus we share is our expertise in advising the clubs in how they should be conducted," he said. "However, many of them have worked their way up through the sys­tem and by this time, their members are aware of the best way to run their club." 
O'Leary also heads up the in­tramural division of Rec Sports. Along with intramural coordinator Greg Kigar, the two of them supervise 55 different activities, including some one might not expect to fmd on the menu. 
"Over the years, we've gotten involved with some of the less traditional sports such as ulti­mate frisbee and wallyball," O'Leary said. "What it's done in some ways is that it has re­duced participation in some of the fringe sports (soccer, base­ball) because people are playing frisbee instead. People· are spread out more over a larger number of offerings." 

Still, the heart and soul of the intramural programs are the basketball and football pr·o­grams. In the wintertime, one could fmd any of over 100 bas­ketball teams playing in one of the three intramural basketball courts in the Joyce ACC. 
Football, however, is king. 
"It's a part of life on campus that people look forward to ev­ery fall Sunday," O'Leary said. "But that's only natural consid­ering the history of the school." 
Due to safety considerations and/or a lack of funding, Notre Dame is one of the few schools left in the country which offers a full-contact, tackle football 
program. Tradition and the 


MANPATIIRY 
BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! 
WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT THURS: $1.00 TEAS ............... FRIISAT: $.75 SPECIALS _.,..;;a NO COVER! 
WED:WVFI DJ, TIM MCADAM 
0 
Stmlum Q JACC 
0 
E I n 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
gram. 

"Our women's program is definitely more competitive that most other schools," O'Leary said. "Our girls are playing on a larger field, and use almost identical rules-other than con­tact-as the men's." 
So what's in the future for Rec Sports. The department re­cently underwent a two-year self-assessment, but nothing new is expected to result from the report. Instead, Kelly talks of a refmement process. 
"One of the things we feel very strongly is that we want to improve the things we're doing now," he said. "We went back and looked at every activity we offer and looked at rules and procedures, trying to refine them. 
"I'd also like to somehow form a closer alliance with the physical education department so that freshmen can receive basic instruction, and then can move up into a more advanced situation. This year, the P.E. department is offering sailing for the first time. The sailing club is helping teach the course, and it will be a great source of new membership for the club." 
type of student Notre Dame at­tracts have a lot to do with the decision not to abandon tackle football. 
"We're able to do it because we get such a high percentage of high school players that come in and want to continue playing, but don't have the size or the dedication for a varsity program," O'Leary said. 
Similarly, the women's flag football program is a unique hybrid not to be found any­where else in the country. It combines national flag football rules with tackle football rules to come up with a blend which has become as much a tradition on campus as the iDeo's pro­


IMMIGRATION SEMINAR FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND YOUNG PROFESSIONALS 
by the Law Firm of RUND & WUNSCH 
Saturday, September 28, 1991 
10:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. First Floor Auditorium Hesburgh Library 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Speakers: Topics: 
Temporary Worker Visas Robert W. Rund Employment-Based Immigration Cyn111ia R. Sclliesswolll Political Asylum Issues 
Dingfa Uu Income Taxation Issues for lntemationa students and. Other Nonresidents 
Special Emphasis on 
IMMIGRATION ACT OF 1990 
"New Opportunities for The Professional" 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 
~-------------­
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
JAY HOSLER 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
SUSIE I 1-\0BBtS 1\\()J;\.\T 1 Wt>S R\J\:JE, SO l't/1 'S()~R~, 
a~. ~t.·u. ~>\A'{ 1\()JSt:. ~. I\L Bt i\lt. "IG\·rut!OO £'t.KUT\'[ WWE ii\E i\~ \\!:'itt. C.b.l-1 ~ ~ 
flt.ll) ~oo CJ>N 'ili: ~ ~m ~\) BQ.to..IN~ \(\D It-\ "' l)..~(N:lEQ~ 

CROSSWORD 
BilL WATTERSON 
i\-\1\NI<S, CAl..'JIN. l\11\TS R9.LL'i NICE cr '((jJ 



Wednesday

ACROSS 24 Move around 54 Small singing aimlessly bird 
1 Call off a 
10:30 a.m.-2:30p.m. Law School Caravan at the Stepan Center 
56 Kind of tenant? 
26 Sacksrocket's fl1ght 57 WW II Greek30 It also rises 

6 End of a undergrounders 12:15 p.m. "Communion and Character Eucharist and Springsteen title 31 A combo 
59 Silk dye Community," by Jean Porter at Stapleton Lounge LeMans Hall SMC 
32 Bellowing

9 "MaJor-," 1V 63 Allowance for II s1tcom 34 Slipper or lover weight 
7 p.m. "Teaching the Small Class," Andrew Arena of the ND­12 Rellg1on of some 36 Mimic 64 Character in aerosp~ce and mechanical engineering department, in 356 
lran1ans folklore and 
39 Loss of a word's Fitzpatnck Hall. 
ballet13 C1ty on seven ending 67 Yours and mine hillS 

41 Beau 7 p.m. " Teaching the Small Discussion Group" Professor Phil
68 "A-clock
15 Wall Sp 43 --Vegas scholar" -t-+--1 Sloan of the ND-PLS department, in 105 O'Shaughnessy. 16 Childhood 
44 Trite 69 East German 
problem 
46 "As You Like It" city 7 p.m. "Teaching Large Class" Dr. Alexander Hahn of the ND 18 "Yes-"· S forest 10 Foxy Mathematics department, in 184 Nieuwland Hall. Davis Jr book 71 Summer time in 
47 Repeat 19 Subway rider's 49 Dawn goddess NY 7 p.m. "Teaching the Large Class," Father Tim Scully of the ND 
need 72 Food fish 
_Government, in 105A O'Shauldlnessy. 
51 Inquires20 Pumpernickel 52 He wrote "The 

LECTURES

21 Related 
Care of Time": DOWN 22 Fountain drink 1981 
Wednesday

1 Network for Koppel 
3:30 p.m. Lecture: "Solidification of Metals in Die Casting, • 
2 Thai coin 

Shuvra Das. Aerospace and mechanical engineering seminar.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Columbus milieu 
Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 

4 Pool-room item 5 Small ones: Var. 
17 Biblical oldster 35 John Lindsay. 53 Sound from 6Vase once Garfield Thursday23 Engraver1 Renata Scotto is Albrecht-37 Sneak a look 55 Namesakes of a one 
son of Lamech Noon Lecture: "Peace Works: Peace Movement Impact During 
25 Scent 38 Sea birds 8 Former name of 58 Filled with the 1980's," David Cortright Small Dining Room C107,Xiamen 40Worst
26 Jezebel's deity 
reverential fear Greenfields Cafe. 

9 Shower-room 42 Retiree's nest
27 Angel's 60 Where Anna items 
instrument: It egg Leonowens MENU
10Thinas­
45 Paul and a worked

28 Prickly shrub or11 Famed cardinal
its fruit 61 Unemployed
metaphysical poet 29 Part of the 48 Hints 62 Gwyn or Carter 14 Put forth energy U.SAF. 50 Appear 65 "-guilty!" Notre Dame Saint Mary's 1!> l:itv for snow-33 Author Maze de 52 Quartet 66 Tennis"court 
B.L.T.
Roast Chicken w/Gravy Macaroni & CheeseSweet & Sour Pork Tuna Melt Noodles Romanoff Deli Bar 



TttE 

T~IL[]IJar 
lttlJ~51JfPr 51"~ w"~s f~IIJfl... ltiE Emri~E Sl~lt\ES ~fll:t\ 
5"llJ~IJ"~ ~EllJ~~ []f lHE JE(]I 
fiLL m[]IJIES fiT fl fr I [)::i[) P.m. l:lJStUnil fllJilll[]IUlJm flllmiSSI[]n: $~ 


Sports 

page 20 Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
Volleyball drops tough 5-set game to ISU 
By RENE FERRAN "We knew that we had a differ­Brown said. "Both Chris and 
Associate Sports Editor ent setter (senior Jennie Alicia struggled a little bit Bruening) in, and I felt like if tonight. We made hitting errors we could just get through the and unforced errors that we 
Yogi Berra would have been first game, that we would be usually didn't make. " proud. Twice. okay. I don't think we lost the first game because of Jennie; But starting in game three, 
The Notre Dame volleyball the team didn't play well for Notre Dame began looking like team rallied from a two-game her." the team that had knocked off deficit against Illinois State, five opponents in a row. Turner only to blow an 11-6 lead in the However, Brown was forced served five consecutive ruth and deciding game to lose to go to Karlan in game two, points-including back-to-hack the match 15-11, 15-8, 9-15, 8-and the sophomore, although aces-and the Irish pulled out 15, 15-12 last night at the Joyce clearly not 100 percent, lit a game three. ACC. spark under a rattled Notre 
Dame team. Notre Dame then took game 
The loss snapped Notre four, stringing together seven Dame's five-match win streak The Irish took a 6-4 lead in straight points at the end to and dropped the Irish to 6-2 on the second game, but Illinois even the match at two games the season. They now head out State came back, scored eight apiece. on the road for five straight straight points to wrest control matches. of the game back and take a 2-"In the third and fourth 
Notre Dame obviously suf­0 lead in the match. games, we settled down and fered from the weakened status played a little bit better," of sophomore setter Janelle Both co-captains Alicia Brown said. "It took a while to Karlan, who has been ill for the Turner and Chris Choquette, fmd a group that we ended up 
past couple of days. The Irish usually two of Notre Dame's with. We finally found the right came out tentative from the steadiest players, had sub-par six; we just ran out of gas in the outset as Karlan sat out the performances last night that end." frrst game and the Redbirds (8-also contributed to the team's 
6) raced out to a 7-0 start. troubles "Notre Dame played much 
The Observer/Garr Schwartt 
more composed in the third 

Sophomore Janelle Karlan goes all out for a dig in the volleyball game
"We were tight and nervous," "In the first two games, we 
against Illinois State last night at the JACC. Despite Karlan's efforts, the 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said. just made a lot of mistakes," see V-BALU page 17 
Irish lost the match in five sets. 
Barton leads Irish talent with experience and talent 
By RICH SZABO sume is quite impressive. In NCAA tournament each of the Sports Writer high school, Barton won the last two years. She lost in the Ohio singles championship as a first round both years, includ­freshman, and was the runner­ing falling to eventual cham­
As the Notre Dame women's up as both a sophomore and a pion Debbie Graham last year, tennis team gets set to begin senior. Her team captured state but doesn't consider a third trip the 1991 fall season, look for titles three times, and Barton her primary goal. caDtain Tracy Barton to lead achieved Prince All-American "The most important thing is 
the Irish in their continuing de­status. Team practices certainly that the team does well," she velopment as a national power. must have been intense, as five said. "My going to the NCAAs 
Barton, a senior English ma­of the seven members now play would be an extra. I would love jor from Cincinnati, Ohio, has college tennis. to go again, and hopefully win the experience, having been to She wanted to avoid a college a match this time. I would like two consecutive NCAA individ­that was too tennis oriented, to see some of the other girls ual tournaments, to lead the but wanted to be part of a de­go. Last year it was great hav­
team to their ultimate goal, a veloping program. Notre Dame ing Melissa (Harris) get into the team berth in the NCAAs. It fit the mold perfectly, and NCAAs too." also doesn't hurt that she hits Barton has enjoyed watching Louderback, the Irish coach, the ball harder than most guys. the team develop as it has. likes what Tracy brings to the 
"I started when I was five," "My freshman year wasn't team. said Barton, "because my sister that great," she said. "It had a "Her experience is a big played and I was taken along lot of ups and downs. The last thing," Louderback said. "She's with her. She would play and I two years with Jay been able to play in the NCAAs would just go out and hit, and (Louderback) have been great, and her experience there will I've played ever since. I played as was being ranked last year, help the rest of the team. She's a lot of sports, but I wanted to both as a team and individually. not afraid to play anyone. She do one sport and try to do it Now we're seeing a lot of the likes the tougher competition well." top recruits looking at Notre better, and it's a big plus for the She certainly has accom­Dame." plished that, and her tennis re-Barton has qualified for the see BARTON/ page 17 
Saint Mary's soccer continues unbeaten streak 
By BRIDGET McCOURT overtime ended the game in a to score three minutes into the Sports Writer 2-2 tie. half. Senior co-captain Greer Yet the Belles game out of the Gilliland went unassisted on the The Saint Mary's soccer game with more than a tie on fourth goal, while Hartzel and team is carrying an unbeaten their record. senior co-captain Kelly Cook record into its third week of the Dominating with a large shot combined for another Belle season. The Belles, who have ratio, the team learned that it score. Finally, with the score at played extremely well and look can play with Division II teams, 5-0, Goshen scored its flrst goal. to improve, are 4-0-2 and and that it can elevate it's level Winget scored again with an ranked fourth in the Great .of play to meet any team it unassisted goal, and Cook Lakes Region, the highest-ever comes up against. passed to freshman Molly ranking for a Saint Mary's Yesterday, the Belles hosted Lawrence for the seventh Saint team. Goshen College. The ·Goshen Mary's goal of the day. Delsaso 
Sunday, the Belles took on the soccer team is in its flrst year notched one more before squad from Division II St. as a varsity sport after many freshman Colleen Cichon kicked Joseph's College. The long and years as a club team. in the fmal goal of the game. physical game tested the Saint Mary's went into the "This game allowed us to ex­strength and stamina of Saint game looking for a decisive win ecute all that we learned offen­Mary's. in the first meeting of these sively and defensively in prac­
The frrst goal was scored by teams. tice," said Winget. "We hope to Saint Mary's junior Stacy They got it, as they defeated continue this in our next game." Winget on an assist from Goshen 9-1. That next game is on the road sophomore Megan Delsaso. St. The score at the end of the Saturday against Hope College. Joseph's rebounded and regular frrst half had Saint Mary's up 2-Coach Tom Van Meter is time ended in a 1-1 tie. 0 on goals from Delsaso and expecting "a very even contest 
Winget. Winget assisted on the against a strong team." 
In the flrst overtime, Delsaso first goal and sophomore "We are just using every used an assist by Jenny Amanda Eiler assisted on the game to strive to get better as a Kapland to put Saint Mary's up second. team," stated Gilliland. 2-1. Once again, St. Joseph's The second half was an ex­The Belles will be at home on answered with a goal of their plosion of goals. Delsaso took a October 4 against the University own. No goals in the second pass from senior Anne Hartzel 'of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 





