~.P~~t
-Q8·

eObserver 
Saint Ma~'s College 

VOL. XXIV NO. 65 
-

Burtchaell to maintain fellowship 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 
SpokHsmfln for Princeton University said that Father James Burtchaell's resignation from the faculty at Notre Dame will have no effect on his fPllowship at Princeton. 
Burtchaell resigned Monday amid allegations of sexual mis­conduct toward male students while teaching at Notre Dame. 
• 
Original NCR article I page 4 

• 
Public opinion poll/ page 3 


Burtchaell has been on sab­batical leave at Princeton the sinc:n August 1990, according to .Jacquelyn Savani, university prnss ollicer. lie is an academic lidlow under a Lilly Endowment grant doing research on uni­versities that had been founded by religious organizations that had made a transition to non­religious operations. 
Since he is a visiting fellow, lw has no "institutionally orga­nized interaction with stu­dents," Savani said. Burtchaell does not teach or counsel stu­dents at Princeton. 
According to Justin Harmon, director of Communications, Burtchaell was invited to study 
see BURTCHAELL I page 3 


Pangborn Hall chosen to house women 

By SANDY WIEGAND 

and MONICA YANT 
News Writers 
Pangborn Hall will convert from a men's to a women's residence hall next year to accommodate an anticipated increase in female students at the University, according to Patrieia O'Hara, vice president for .Student Af­fairs. 
The Officers of the Uni­
vorsity made the decision 
Monday after analyzing in­
formation and possible 
choices at their November 
meeting, according to a let­
ter sent O'Hara to Pangborn 
residents yesterday. 
Pangborn residents react­ing to the decision were "not very favorable," Pangborn Rector Father Wilfred Borden said. "There are guys that are upset, there are parents that are upsHt. You get attached to a dorm. They just don't know what the future holds for them." 
The announcement came after a May 1991 decision by the Board of Trustees to lift the 37 percent cap on female enrollment that had been in place for the past several years. At Monday's meeting of the Officers, a new target for a freshman class of 44 percent female, 56 percent male was set for the 1992-93 academic year. 
The deeision to increase the number of female stu­dents necessitated a resi­dence hall conversion, ac­cording to William Kirk, as­sistant vice president of Residence Life. Existing female residence halls would not be able to accommodate the increase in students. 
"We believe that this deci­sion is in the long-term best interest of the University," O'Hara said in her letter. "We know, however, that it comes at a price to the existing residents of Pang­born Hall. We will do our best to try to·minimize this disruption." 
Kirk informed Borden of the decision Tuesday after­noon, Borden said, and he promptly called a hall meet­ing to tell students. 
Borden said he did not know whether students would have any input into which hall they are placed in next year. Nor did Borden know where he would live next year. ''I'm in limbo," he commented. 
O'Hara's letter indicated only that Pangborn residents would most likely receive alternative on­campus housing next year. 
"Because of the reduction in the number of male Freshmen, we expect that we will be able to accommodate all existing residents of Pangborn Hall who wish to remain on campus in other male halls.," she said. 
O'Hara and Kirk will meet with Pangborn residents Thursday night to discuss the change and any student questions. 


Sununu resigns after criticism 
WASHINGTON (AP) -John 
Sununu, the combative White 
House chief of staff whose 
abrasive style earned him ene­
mies in both parties, resigned 
Tuesday, telling President Bush 
he didn't want to be "a drag oh 
your success." 
The resignation came after ·weeks of rumors that Sununu 
was on his way out. The 52­
year-old former New Hamp­
shire governor had come under 
increasing criticism from Re­
publicans for his role in what 
they saw as ineffective White 
House action on the faltering 
economy. 
Speculation immediately cen­tered on Transportation Secre7 tary Samuel Skinner as a likely successor, although the White House said no decision had been made. 
One GOP congressional source called the decision to give Skinner the job "definite but not official." 
Sununu handed Bush a five­page handwritten resignation note on Air Force One while Bush was on a trip to Florida and Mississippi. 
Bush accepted the resigna­tion, effective Dec. 15, and said in a statement that Sununu would remain as a counselor with Cabinet rank through March 1. 
Later, standing beside Sununu on Air Force One, Bush told reporters, "He has taken a lot of hard shots that would have landed on my chin." 
Sununu noted that Bush was heading into 'his reelection campaign and said, "He doesn't need an extra political target folks will be shooting at." 

that as far as she knew, Bush had not offered Skinner the job. 
Skinner is well respected by other Cabinet members, GOP members of Congress and Re­publican campaign workers. 
Speculation that he would get the post was fueled by r;evela­tions that he had a private din­ner with the president on Sun­day and breakfast at the White House on Monday with Bush's son and chief political troubler shooter, George Bush. 
In fact, it was Bush's eldest son -who is co-owner of the Texas Rangers' baseball team -who delivered the bad news to Sununu last Wednesday that there was wide opposition to him among Bush's top advisers, administration and Republican sources said Tuesday. 
In his letter, Sununu said that until recently he had been con­vinced he could be a strong contributor to Bush's efforts. 
"But in politics, especially during the seasons of a political campaign, perceptions that can be effectively dealt with at other times can be -and will be ­converted into real political negatives," Sununu wrote. "And I would never want to not be contributing positively, much 

AP less be a drag on your success." 
The controversy over what Administration and Republi­role Sununu would play next 
can sources said they expected year had also held up Bush's 
Skinner, a close political ally of naming of a re-election cam­
the president's who played an paign team. 
active role in his 1988 re-elec­Charles Black, a GOP consul­
tion effort, to get the top White tant expected to play a key role 
House staff job. in that campaign, said Sununu's However, White House resignation cleared the decks 
spokeswoman Judy Smith said for Bush to move on that front. 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

WEDNESDAy I DECEMBER 4, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ' 



McCarthy details duties facing American citiz~ns 
By CARRIE DWYER 
News Writer 
The three most important du­ties facing American citizens today are participation in polit­ical elections, financial support of the government and service in the military, according to former Minnesota Senator Eu­gene McCarthy. 
In a lecture titled "The Inalienable Duties of Citizen­ship" last night, McCarthy maintained that the growing trend in American elections is towards an institutionalized nonparticipation under which many voters have come to be­lieve that it is better to "let someone else do it for us." 
On the issue of taxes, Mc­Carthy. said that the nation's massive debt accumulation during the past few decades is largely due to "those who should have been paying but were made exempt." 
McCarthy said he blamed the government for this "fiscal ir­responsibility" that has re­sulted in a four trillion dollar national debt that he further broke down to a figure of $40,000 of debt per individual taxpayer. 
Addressing the nation's unemployment problem, Mc­Carthy said that it has become "a question of distributed jus­tice" and called for the 
"redistribution of employment" 
as a remedy to the current sit­
uation. 
"The dominant word in 

America is 'more'," said Mc­
Carthy and he said he feels that 
Americans must resist the urge 
to overwork and overconsume. 
McCarthy noted that the last time work was redistributed was in 1938 with the introduc­tion of the eight hour day and the fifty week year. 
"Making people work longer for things we don't really need," McCarthy said, is a problem that continues to affect the status of American workers and unemployment levels. 
McCarthy concluded his lec­ture with a comment of the dif­ferent levels of the decision­making political process, stat­ing that long-range decisions should be left to the academi­cians, short-range judgements should be made by the press, and immediate decisions should be the sole responsibility of the politicians. 
"This is reversed right now," said McCarthy. "The politicians are making the long-range judgements concerning the di­rection of national policy." 
A native of Watkins, Min­nesota and a graduate of St. John's University, McCarthy also holds a master of arts de­gree from the University of 
see DUTIES/ page 3 


Wednesday, December 4, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
FORECAST: Snowy and windy today with highs in the upper 20s and a low of 15. TEMPERATURES: 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Basketball is 
America's sport, 



not Indiana's 
Residents of the state of Indiana believe that their state is the cradle of basketball. 
Hoops was born one hundred years ago in Springfield, Mass., but most Hoosiers think that the game soon relocated to the verdant corn fields of Indiana. 
Though many of the greatest players of what ------­has become America's most popular game have since come from urban centers such as New York and Chicago, Indiana sees itself as the most important basketball arena on earth. 
Though the biggest part of this my_t~ is found in high school hoops, the most VIsible salesmen of basketball as Indiana's game are the Indiana Hoosiers themselves. 
One of the most controversial figures in sports, Bobby Knight, is the perfect exam~le of the arrogant IU supporter. A vulgar dis­ciplinarian who wears the ugliest sweaters west of Lou Carnesecca, Knight is a demigod to nearly everyone in this state. . 
Granted, Knight is a great coach. But he IS not a great man. He once told interview~r Connie Chung that victims of rape should lie back and enjoy the experience. Though he_ seems to have outgrown chair-throwing, Knight still enjoys spitting strings of four­letter words at surprisingly kind officials. 
Knight's (lgo is so big that he drove future NBA greats (and legendary egomaniacs) Isaiah Thomas and Larry Bird out of Bloom­ington rather than letting them play their own games. 
Indiana has won three national champi­onships during Knight's tenure in Bloom­ington. How many more would he have won with Larry and Isaiah playing all four years? How much better would the Hoosiers be with Indianapolis high school sensation Eric Montross? Though he probably fights it, I'll bet Bobby lies awake nights dreaming of what could have been. 
Indiana fans hate to remember those ones that slipped away. This year, they again have a contender for the national championship. But the team has many weaknesses, as the fans saw against UCLA, and will probably not win the championship. 
After the Hoosiers get knocked off by Richmond (or some other automatic bidl in the 1992 NCAA tournament, IU fans will quickly put this season out of their m~ds and will wait for next November. They will hope for the complete blossoming of the much­vaunted class of '93, and will revel in the glorious Damon Bailey. 
Hoosier fans love Bailey. He's a lot like them. He is an average-sized middle-class white person from a small town. So was Steve Alford, the last IU player-deity. Indiana fans don't seem to revel in the talents of Calbert Cheaney or Isaiah Thomas nearly as muc~. despite their greater successes. They aren t typical Hoosiers. . 
Indiana fans need to learn who their real stars are. They need to realize that Bobby Knight is nothing more than an aging boo_r. whose failures in life are as great as his successes on the court. And they need to re­alize that basketball is not Indiana's game, but America's game. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff  
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Meredith McCullough  
Kristin Lynch  Ann-Marie Hartman  
Sports  Graphics  
Mike Scrudato  Brendan Regan  
Accent  Viewpoint  
John O'Brien  Rich Riley  
Patrick Moran  
Systems  
Patrick Barth  
Mike Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 

OF INTEREST 


•The St. Joseph County CASA Program will be conducting training for new volunteers beginning January 13th through February 15th. You must be at least 21 years of age and be willing ~o make ~ on~ year commitment. For more informatiOn regarding this pro­gram, please call 284-9231 and ask for Gloria or Barb. 
•world Peace Action Group Coalition will meet at 8 
p.m. instead of 7 p.m. in the CSC Coffeehouse. 

•saint 
Mary's College Coffeehouse will feature the campus band "The Sister Chain" tonight at 9 p.m. to benefit the YWCA women's shelter. A $1 donation is re­quested. 

•senior-sign 
up for invitational interviews-now through Wednesday, December 11 at Career a_nd Placement Services-for the first two weeks ·of Sprmg Semester. 

•Resume 
Expert introduction will be given today from 


3:30 p.m. -4:30 p.m. in the Career and Placement 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ December 3 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 

0.10
230,231,250 21°.55 '11.--.._;jc:!Lt COMPOSITE UP{}~£ 380.96 -ijr 0.82 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,929.56 .. 5.82 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD{} $ 0.90to $367.0/oz. SILVER {Jr 7¢ to $4.05/oz. 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Mlarri Beach New Orleans New York Paris Philade"hia Rome San Diego San F ranclsco Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C. 
H  L  
54  43  
74  57  
37  34  
52  31  
34  27  
47  32  
38  14  
35  31  
85  76  
49  34  
37  34  
46  45  
64  46  
80  76  
81  50  
52  39  
37  36  
56  41  
59  37  
63  46  
66  47  
48  45  
27  15  
61  48  
58  44  


Bush sa~s he cares about economy 

•BRADENT N, Fla. -President Bush insisted today he understands the plight of economically hard-pressed Americans and said "we can't sit back and hope for the best" with the nation's foundering econ­omy. Bush offered no new economic measures, but told workers at the Tropicana juice plant here that there was good news from Japan, thanks to trade and . agricultural contacts by the administration. "J_a~an will drop its prohibitive quota system on. orange JUIC~ ~nd throw its market wide open to Amencan orange JUICe, effective next April. And we will be able to compete in that market," meaning more jobs for the Tropicana plant, he said. Bush, under attack from Democrats who say he is out of touch with the needs of the recession-plagued workers of the nation, outlined no formula for stimulating economic growth. But he said, "much more needs to be done." 
Services Conference Room. This will be the final presen­tation of this semester. 
•Attention 
seniors who signed up for Senior Rap Discussion Groups through the Center of Social Concerns. If you haven't heard from your student leader by today, please contact the Center. It is possible that whe!l we computerized the groups your name was left off the list. 

•Auditions 
for the Cavanaugh Hall Play will be held tonight from 8:30 -10:30 p.m. The tryouts will be held in the Haggar Hall Auditorium. 

•A 
pre-Christmas hospitality luncheon s~onsored by Women United for Justice and Peace will be held tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 


a.m. -1:30 p.m. A harvest lunch will be served. All are welcome. 
•Glee Club tickets for the annual Christmas Concert go on sale today at the information desk in LaFortune for $1. The concert is Friday, December 13 at 8:15p.m. in Stepan Center. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On December 4: eln 1882: Francisco Franco was born. 
eln 1918: President Wilson sails for the Versailles Peace Conference. 
eln 1926: Notre Dame beats the University of Southern California in football. 
eln 1946: The New York Times reveals the presence of Nazi rocket scientists in U.S. 
eln 1979: President Carter announces he will run for reelection. 
eTen Years Ago: The bodies of Jean Donovan, Sister Dorothy Kazal, Sister Ita Ford and Sister Maura Clarke found outside of San Salvador. 
Wednesday, December 4, 1991 The Observer 
Watson gives insight into teaching 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
Karilee Watson, acting chair and assistant professor of edu­cation, discussed the pieces and patterns that make up the life of the mind of a teacher at last night's Life of the Mind Lecture at Saint Mary's. 
"The life of the mind of a teacher involves making sense out of thinking," said Watson. Watson traced in her lecture the influences in her life that led her to think about the teaching profession as pieces set within a pattern. 
Watson noted the "lone voy­agers" who served as pieces in "the pattern that made the pro­fession" of teaching, noting such pioneers in teaching as Maria Montessori. 
Watson also discussed per­sonal experiences with her mother and grandmother that contributed to her interest in the teaching profession. Be­cause of the patterns she saw in her mother's and her grandmother's lives, Watson said she chose to become a teacher. 
"Living as part of these women's lives" exposed Watson to thinking about the learning experience. Coloring, cutting, pasting, as well as decorating turkeys and fish for a classroom are externals Watson noted that stereotype the teacher, but convey one of the primary obligations a teacher has to "first think of the teaching · space," said Watson. 
Thinking about the learning experience focuses toward new learning and triggers under­standing, Watson said. "The thinking of a teacher begins when she enters the teaching site," said Watson. 
Watson then discussed that it was the job of a teacher to evaluate every student and ev­ery piece of material that she teaches begins with the basic evaluation of the learning envi­ronment. 
Watson's mother, a teacher, told stories of the· experience of teaching-that to Watson "are the same as my stories of teaching." 
"They learned well or they learned badly depending on my ability to put the right piece in the pattern," said Watson. 
In conclusion, she encouraged teachers to continue cutting, pasting, coloring, and thinking about all the complex pieces that make the pattern of learn­ing the teacher's responsibility. 

Faculty hopes for more reps on Colloquy 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI Members of the Senate also expressed concern News Writer that the colloquy is not focu.sing enough on academics. The last committee to address the A concern for the lack of faculty representation concerns of the University predicted most of what on the Colloquy for the Year 2000 was the main occurred in the next decade, according Chairma~ of issue discussed at last night's Faculty Senate the Faculty Senate Paul Conway. Consequently, meeting. members of the Senate said they are concerned they are not only underrepresented, but also that 
According to the Faculty Senate, if members of the academic concerns of the university may not be the faculty want to be involved in what happens met. at Notre Dame over the next ten years, then The Senate also discussed proposing a revision to greater representation is necessary in the the process of updating duLac. Under the current Colloquy for the Year 2000. format, du Lac is revised over the summer when 
students cannot offer any input. 


Reduce. Reuse. 

"When I first saw it on the 
I I was shocked. I don't 
••• think his resignation from the 
•• University could have been 
: avoided after such allegations. 
: I think it is real unfortunate." -Mike Holley (sophomore) 



~=~;:~=~~~~=~~:~~hat .•: 
were referred to. in the stories. I: felt taken aback by the ·. . EOssibility that something like this woufd have taken place at •• the University. I knew Father 
•: Burtcha~ll, but it makes me :• · and think twice about the ,.. faculty a,nd Administration at 
•the University. I would like to hear his side of it,
I-C::~ff~~t~~~~~~~:l:e'v'e it is not rrue." 
••·• in the first place for ·•• and the University ••• I know him as an 
.• t human being, a. great .•.· , and a very effective •• teacher. My respect and love ••• for him are completely : undiminished and, if anything, .. heightened by the sadness in part because I know I .• am a sinner but in less publicfy perceptible ways . 
• For that reason, I don't want to cast any stone on · him nor do I think anyone else should." ••· -Michael Waldstein (professor, Program of ·• Liberal Studies) 
: ;: ·~· :: ;: .: . '• :: :; ;. ::: ,•' 
"I it is that a professor at the University of Notre Dame •• would have charges brought •• up against him. I think it IS •• . 1 ~ more unfortunate if these ·• 
1
charges are true. The best 1
• thing for the University to 
.. do is to weight the facts and ~ act accordingly. The student body should reserve 
j
its judgement of Father Burtchaell until they know all the facts and then draw a conclusion." 

.·.· .·.· .. ::· ::
Recycle. 

The Medieval Club 
PRESENTS 
··· -Ira Wade (freshman) 

Duties 
continued from page1 
Minnesota. 
He represented Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District for ten years before success­fully running for the Senate seat which he held for two terms before retiring in 1970. 
McCarthy's lecture was spon­sored by the College of Arts and Letters Core Course, the Jacques Maritain Center, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, the Thomas 
J. White Center on Law and Government, and the tenter for Social Concerns. 

Burtchaell 
continued from page 1 
at the university by the religion department, but is not a mem­ber of the faculty. As a result, there was, and is, no reason for Princeton administration offi­cials to be involved in the inves­tigation. 
Burtchaell's resignation and the allegations will have no ef­fect on his status, he said. 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you '11 score your highest on the MCAT Our unique Test Your Bestr" guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'11 let you repeat the entire course ...at no charge' 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE• labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 

! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call800-KAP-TEST 


if©OOU®OOif ©OOILW Wednesday, December4 Montgomery Theater LaFortune student Center 
Shows at 7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 Admission $2 TJ.Ck:ets on Sale at Info Desk 
~{t[!!]@l}'? 00lr@f!J!k 


page 4 The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1991 



NCR examines details of Burtchaell resignation 
Editor's note: The following Dame President Holy Cross article was reprinted with the Father Edward Malloy and permission of National Catholic Burtchaell-are not known. Reporter. Kansas City, MO. The However, sources with knowl­article was printed in the Dec. edge of the agreement said the 6 issue. University agreed to allow 
Burtchaell to extend last year's 
Holy Cross Father James off-campus sabbatical for a Tunstead Burtchaell, a promi­year, provided that he send a nent theologian at the letter of resignation by University of Notre Dame, has December 1991 to the head of agreed to resign from his the University's theology de­tenured teaching position fol­partment. lowing an investigation into Neither the current Notre charges he had engaged in sex­Dame theology department ual misconduct while counsel­chairman, Larry Cunningham, ing male students. nor former department chair­
Burtchaell, former University man, McBrien, would comment provost and theology depart­on the matter. ment chairman, is currently on As part of the agreement, ac­sabbatical at Princeton cording to sources, the University under a Lilly University said it would not Endowment grant. Contacted by speak about the resignation un­NCR on three occasions, he til December. O'Meara has re­refused to comment on either peatedly declined interview re­the allegations or his status at quests by NCR. Notre Dame except to say he Associate Provost Roger has not resigned. Schmitz told NCR, "I know 
nothing about it. If it is known According to University here, it's known only between sources. including____________Father Burtchaell members of the and the provost, Holy Cross order, 'He has made a lot and I doubt if Burtchaell is still • , either one of on the faculty but of enem1es. He s them will offer a comment one
~:~m~tgreed h~~ the kind of man way or another." 
resignation inyou could admire 
December, per-U n i v e r sit y haps as early as beCaUSe he haS a president Holy this week. The • d d h Cross Father 
resignation is great min an e Malloy also de­s.aid to be effec-has lots of flare for clined comment. tlve at the end of In an Oct. 18 this academic all kinds of things. letter responding 
year to an NCR re-So.urces said Yet at the same quest for an Burtcha?ll agreedtime he haS a interview, he 
to resign last wrote: "National spring after the Streak Of Catholic Reporter University investi-, representatives gated the arrogance. have been in allegations of touch with the several stu~ents -former Burtchaell provost:s o~ce of 
who claimed the Umversity of Burtchaell had COlleague Notre Dame made sexual ad-concerning the vances toward matter about them in counseling or in which you wrote me in your spiritual-advising situations. In letter dated October 11, 1991. some cases, sexual contact was Confidentiality governs the alleged to have occurred interactions of faculty members between Burtchaell and the and the office." students, the sources said. Burtchaell's Holy Cross order 
also declined repeated requests 
NCR has spoken with two for interviews on the Burtchaell former Notre Dame students case. Holy Cross Provincial who said Burtchaell had made Father Carl Ebey said in an Oct. sexual advances on them while 9 letter that any response in counseling. "might compromise the confi­
While the precise details of dentiality that normally governs events that led to Burtchaell's the relationship between a resignation agreement are religious and his religious su­known to only a few members perior." of the Notre Dame administra­The order, meanwhile, issued tion, NCR, through interviews an "interim policy" on sexual with sources connected to the abuse, outlined in an Oct. 29 University, both inside and out­letter by Holy Cross provincial side the Holy Cross order, has Ebey to order members. The learned of the general order of letter describes a policy "based events. Sources say that during upon the procedures I have the 1989-90 academic year, been following up to now and several students, independent which many of you have asked of one another, confided to a about." priest in the theology depart­ment that they had been sexu­The document makes no spe­ally harassed or abused by cific reference to the Burtchaell Burtchaell. case but appears to allude to it. 
The faculty member subse­stating that "sexual abuse may quently approached the then­occur not only between minors chairman of the theology de­and adults but also between partment, Father Richard two adults. This type of abuse, McBrien, who then approached although not publicized as the University provost, Timothy much in the papers, also occurs O'Meara. O'Meara, sources in our society, and we must said, decided to investigate and have procedures in place for during the course of the inves­dealing with such activity." tigation more allegations of Ebey added that the same sexual misconduct directed at procedures used for sexual Burtchaell were made. abuse of minors will be applied 
to sexual abuse of adults except 
The provost, sources said, for "the reporting of the case to met with Burtchaell several appropriate governmental times during the 1990-91 school agencies." year, and those meetings led to an agreement between Burtchaell's career Burtchaell and the University. Burtchaell's career at Notre 
The precise terms of the Dame has spanned more than a agreement-possibly known only quarter of a century. A 1956 to provost O'Meara, Notre Notre Dame graduate, he re-

Father Burtchaell 
turned to the University as a theology professor in 1966. He became theology department chairman in 1968. 
An NCR profile of Burtchaell written by Jesuit Father Raymond Schroth and publi­cized in August 1989 was head­lined "Father Ivysoul." It de­scribed Burtchaell as an essen­tial part of the Notre Dame fabric: " ... he entered Holy Ivy 
U. as a freshman, joined the HIFs (Holy Ivy Fathers), got his degree, then returned to Ivy U., where, for the rest of his life, he will live in a student dorm, say a popular Mass, burn his light late, teach generations of students the same courses, counsel them through courtships, bless their mar­riages, baptize their children, welcome these children to Ivy, teach them the same courses and maybe even write some books-till his engine grinds to a halt and he joins his predeces­sors in the Ivy Fathers' grave­yard on the edge of the campus underneath the pines." 
In 1970, Burtchaell became the University provost, working with President Theodore Hesburgh. Burtchaell appeared to be in line for president. But in 1977, for reasons never made public, he was asked to step down from the provost's office and return to teaching. 
At that point Burtchaell also left the Catholic Theological Society of America, the SoCiety of Biblical Literature and the Catholic Biblical Association and emerged, as the NCR pro­file described it, "as one of the most eloquent writers against abortion." 
He authored the Christopher­award winning "Rachel Weeping: the Case against Abortion" (1982), and has been an articulate voice in the an­tiabortion movement since. 
Burtchaell's writings have appeared in NCR's pages. He has written about such subjects as sexuality, marriage, natural law and the Vatican's 1988 fi­delity oath. 
Friends and foes alike de­scribe Burtchaell as brilliant. He has his critics, however, who say he has an arrogant streak and can be intimidating. Said one former colleague, "He has made a lot of enemies. He's the kind of man you could admire because he has a great mind and he has lots of flare for all kinds of things. Yet at the same time he has a streak of arrogance." 
Burtchaell, however, has sup­porters who would take issue with such a characterization. He has had a large following among students. 
Burtchaell, who until his sab­batical lived in an apartment in the back of a student dorm, has gained a reputation for his in­novative counseling style. A Notre Dame public-information department biographical sketch says of Burtchaell: "He is also notably popular as a counselor to Notre Dame students. 
University atmosphere The Burtchaell resignation comes in the midst of wider 

University controversy concern­The Holy Cross order ing gay students. About 175 Several sources said Notre faculty members recently Dame has been more aggressive signed a letter published in the in disciplining Burtchaell than campus newspaper, The has the Holy Cross order. Some Observer, urging Notre Dame to faculty members told NCR they become "a safer place for those are troubled that the Holy Cross in it who are addressing order has not forced Burtchaell questions about their sexual to take a lower public profile, orientations." Gays, lesbians including putting aside his and bisexuals on campus public writing and speaking. "should not have to fear ha­rassment, the impositions of In recent months, Burtchaell self-hatred, infringements of has published articles in several intellectual liberty, the loss of Catholic publications, including employment, physical violence, NCR and America magazine. or sexual abuse," the letter Additionally, Burtchaell is stated. scheduled to give a keynote 
A former Burtchaell col­speech in June before the league, with knowledge of the Jesuits' New York province case, said he wondered whether conference. Burtchaell is to ad­the University's refusal to rec­dress the subject of "Ministry in ognize a gay student group on an American Context." campus and the Burtchaell case Sources said some form of might be linked. counseling is routine in priest 
"We wonder whether the uni­sex-abuse cases. NCR could not versity isn't startiHg to stop all confirm what steps -if any ­mention of homosexuality pro Holy Cross fathers or the or con. Because if...people start University had taken to assist to share and to reminisce, this Burtchaell, to respond to al­(Burtchaell) case in particular is leged victims or to assure going to rise first in everybody's against possible further victim­mind," he said. ization. 
One source supportive of the 
University's action order said he has "great re­
The University's official re­spect" for the Holy Cross sponse regarding the Burtchaell Fathers. But. he continued, case has gotten a mixture of "What's more important for me criticism and praise from is the church and the mission sources within the University. that we have. I think that the Some applaud the University for more we deal as openly as pos­taking action and ensuring that sible with such issues with re­Burtchaell will not return; some spect for all concerned, the bet­criticize the ter we are." agreement-especially the decision to allow Burtchaell to For years. he said, dioceses remain on the faculty during and religious orders routinely this academic year. swept problems such as chemi­
The University appears to be cal dependency under the rug. making every effort to conceal "Now that's being dealt with in the Burtchaell matter. For ex­a much better way," he said. ample, in an advertisement in "And I think we need to deal the Oct. 23 issue of The with all issues like that." Christian Century, Burtchaell is In his Oct. 29 letter to mem­listed on the faculty for summer bers, Provincial Ebey said the and fall of 1992. "interim policy" he outlined for 
A 1991 University faculty handling sexual-abuse cases is handbook refers to sexual ha­based largely on policies in rassment as "unwelcome sexual place in the Chicago archdio­advances, requests for sexual cese and the Phoenix diocese. favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual He reemphasized that mem­nature." bers of the order should not 
Under the heading of discuss such cases. "Our policy "consensual will continue to be 
relationships"------------that we do not the policy 'We wonder discuss individual s t a t e s : h th th • cases or identify the 
"Because ofW e er e Unl-names of any victim the . uniqueversity isn't or accused relatiOnships religious, and all b e t w e e nstarting to stop all members of the students and ent"o f province need to be f a c u I t y m I n 0 mindful of their members with homosexuality pro own responsibility
the faculty for preserving such member serv-or con. Because confidence," he said ing as. The letter states e d u c a t o r ,If•••people Start to that if a member of 
counselor, andshare and to the order becomes evaluator, and aware of sexual the possibilitYreminisce, this abuse by a member of abuse of this • of the congregation, relationship or(Burtchaell) case In "it is your duty to 
t h eparticular is going report it to the 
appearance of a p p r o p r i a t e abuse, theto rise first in authorities, in-un i v e r sit y b d , • d , eluding the views it asevery 0 y s min • provincial or dis-unacceptable trict superior, so (including all that we might act in those who-former Burtchaell a responsible 
tea~h at .the colleague manner." 
u n Ivers It y . ___......;;;...._______ graduate students with teaching re­sponsibilities, and other in­The letter outlines the steps to structional personnel) to engage .be taken in cases of priest in amorous relations with sexual abuse, such as hearing students enrolled in their both sides of the story, remov­classes or subject to their su­ing the accused from his as­pervision, even when both par­signment pending the investiga­ties appear to have consented to tion's findings and sending the the relationships. religious for appropriate psy­"In keeping with this philoso­chological testing, consulting phy of the University, if charges with a canon lawyer to discuss of sexual harassment are made, the appropriate canonical sanc­it shall not be a defense to tions and appointing an advi­allege that the relationship was sory panel to advise the provin­consensual." cial. 
Wednesday, December 4, 1991 The Observer 

Himes relates faith and nature 
By GERRALDINE HAMILTON News Writer 
The relationship between the Catholic faith and environmen­tal issues is an important aspect of ecological ethics, according to Father Michael Himes, associate professor of Theology. 
In his lecture last night, "The Sacrament of Creation," Himes focused on the traditions of North America to discuss the inter-relatedness of Catholicism and environmental ethics. He argued that the American peo­ple have resolved the majority of their problems be dealing with space rather than time. 
An example that Himes used was that in 1636 when the Puri­tans in New England disagreed on how to interpret the covenant with God, Roger Williams took his followers and created a new colony in Rhode Island. !limes stated, "In Amer­ican life space overcame time." 
The American people chopped up the space they had as a way to avoid conflict. When cultures clashed, such as the conflict between the h\dians and the White people, each culture used the vast amount of space to separate themselves from each other. Himes stated that America had the mentality that instead of confronting problems, "you go away to start fresh." 
Himes related the theory that people have the tendency to look at things as possessions. Everything is compartmental­ized and fit into the personal realm of the individual, Himes said. 
Things that have their own identity become "it," he said. Yet, Himes stated that there is also a flip side one can also make non-human reality into something that has independent realities with their own pur­pose, need and value. 
The sacramentality of the en­vironment, said Himes, is that of a concrete expression of the Grace of God that underlies ev­erything that exists. God is in­timately involved in Creation of everything that exists because of his pure and perfect love. If everything exists because God loves it, then everything is in fact sacramental, stated Himes. 
Thus, if everything is de­signed puposefully by God, the duty of the Catholic is to behold the beauty of it, said Himes. Appreciation comes from the reverence for what God has created, he said. 
Himes warned that if world is approached as non-sacramen­tal, as a place full of personal possessions, the world will al­ways be viewed as something that must be controlled. 
"Catholics have the founda­tions of how to be concerned about transforming the world into an immense sacrament," Himes said. The sacramentality of nature demands respect of the environment, he added. 
Father Himes based the title of his lecture on an article he wrote along with his brother, Kennith Himes, on the theologi­cal base for environmental ethics. The article argues that the universe has become too desacrilized and that God is no longer really identified with the natural world. 
The lecture was sponsored by Students for Environmental Action and is the first of a continuing series of events focusing on environmental issues this week. 

~~)l.-r....1.-):&;;}-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·
Come Christmas Shopping In Downtown CHICAGO 

When:  Sunday,  Dec. 8th  
Tix:  On sale Monday, Dec. 2nd-Friday,  
Dec. 6th in the Junior Class Office  
$6/ person -covers transportation  
Bus:  


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Father Michael Himes discusses the importance of the relationship be­tween the Catholic faith and environmental issues to ecological ethics at a lecture last night. 

If you see news happening, call 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 
Indiana Opera North Presents: AMAHL AND THE NIGHT VISITORS A Christmas Story About Three Wise Men & 
A Crippled Boy 
•December 
6th &7th at the Bendix Theatre in South Bend's Century Center 

•December 
8th in the Beickman P.A.C. of Concord High School in Elkhart. 

•All 
presentations will begin at 7:30pm. Tiekets can be purchased at the Century Center Box Office in Southbend (284-9111 ), at Templin's in Elkhart (293-0345) or at the door. 


Price: $10 for adults, $5 for students $7.50 for senior citizens and groups of 15 or more. 

..



MANQATORY 
7fi&LetY»t& ~/"'e~'
CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES. 
U you're a freshman or sophomore with 
good grades, apply now for a three-year or 
two-year scholarship. From Army ROTC. 
Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most books and fees, plus $100 per school month. They also pay off with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. 
stlldlum 

Q JACC 
0
i 0 

... AND WE'LL 
ARMY ROTC 

~CLEAN THE FLOOR! 
TIE SMARTEST COIJ.EGE ..,


-------,-....f )>
COUISE YOU CD TUE. <
•
Contact Captain Selling 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285
239-6264 for more information 


• 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 


r-------------------------------------~ ­
Wednesday, December 4, 1991 

Purcell, Fischer elected to Board of Trustees 
Special to The Observer 
'l\v<r University of Notre Dame graduates, Philip Purcell and Charles Fischer Sr., have been elected to the University's Board of Trustees. 
Purcell, a 1964 graduate with a degree in business administration, is chairman and chief executive officer of Dean Witter Financial Services Group of Sears, Hoebuck and Co. and a member of the Sears board of directors. Since joining Sears in 197S he has served as vice president for corporate planning, senior vice president for corporate administration and planning, and president and chief operating officer of Dean Witter. 
Before his election to the Notre Dame· Board of Trustees, Purcell was a member of the advisory council of the University's College of Business Administration. He currently serves on the council of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. 
lie holds a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago and 


ATTENTION BUSINESS STUDENTS! 

You are cordially invited to the 
First Annual Faculty/Student Christmas Social 
sponsored by the Business School clubs. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1991 6:30 -8:00 p.m. BLUE ROOM of North Dining Hall 

Hot and cold appetizers, desserts, and other refreshments will be seiVed. 
All business majors and faculty are invited to attend. Call your club officers for more information. 
one in science from the London School of Economics. 
Fischer, a 1949 Notre Dame graduate with a degree in science, is president, chief ex­ecutive officer and chairman of the board of Harbison-Fischer Manufacturing Co. of Fort Worth, Texas, the world's largest manufacturer of sub­surface oil well pumps. 
In addition, he is director and treasurer of Harbison-Fischer Canada Ltd. He is a director of Texas American Bank West Side and is chairman of the board of Challenger Tank and Manufacturing Co., Inc., and Abco Acquisition Co. 
A member of the College of 
1 Engineering advisory council at Notre Dame before his election as a trustee, he also serves as a director of the Fort Worth Opera Association. He received an MBA from Stanford University in 1952. The new Charles A. Fischer Graduate Residence Complex at Notre Dame was underwritten by a gift from Fischer and named for his father. 
The board was formed in 1967 when lay governance of the University was instituted. 
The Observer 


Making campus Christmasy 
Even though exams are right around the corner, Santa's elves do not want us to forget that Christmas is too. On the trees outside the breezeway between Hayes-Healey and Hurley, the lights flicker from the branches with holiday cheer. 
• 
page 7 
Maguire 

:to discuss technology 
Special to The Observer 
William May Maguire, univer­sity professor of ethics at Southern Methodist University, will discuss contrasting views of the role of technology to­morrow at the University of Notre Dame. 
His lecture, "Slaying the Dragon: The American Nature Myth," is the keynote address of a seminar. Ethics and the Educated Person. 
Before joining the SMU fac­ulty, May served as the Joseph 
P. Kennedy, Sr.. professor of Christian ethics at the Kennedy Institute of Ethics at Georgetown University. A 1948 graduate of Princeton University, he received his bachelor's degree and doctor­ate from Yale University. 
After the 1963 Schempp deci­sion of the Supreme Court made it clear that religion could be taught at public insti­tutions, May founded and chaired the religious studies department at Indiana University. Earlier he served as chair of the religion depart­ment at Smith College in Northampton, Mass. 
He is a former president of the American Academy of Religion and a founding fellow of the Hastings Center, where 

• he co-chaired its research group on death and dying. He is the author of "A Catalogue of Sins" and "The Physician's Covenant" Images of the Healer in Medical Ethics." 
The lecture is free and open to the public in Room 206 of the Architecture Building on campus. 
r24 
VVednesda~No~27 
10:35 a.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of her bookbag from South Dining Hall. 
2:41 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported that his bicycle was vandalized while It was 

• locked to the Flenner Hall bike racK 
Thursday, November 28 
5:06 p.m. A Grace Hall reported several personal items of his were stolen from the 1st floor study lounge of Grace. 
11:55 p.m. A South Bend resident was 

• cited for travelling 54 MPH in a 30 MPH zone on Edison Road. 
Friday, November 29 
12:37 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited for travelling 55 MPH in a 30 MPH zone on Edison Road. 
5:58 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited for travelling 46 MPH In a 30 MPH zone on Notre Dame Ava. The suspect was then arrested tor Driving While Intoxicated. 
. Saturday, November 30 
12:52 a.m. A Mishawaka resident was cited for travelling 51 MPH in a 30 MPH zone on lvy Road. 
Sunday, December 1 
12:25 a.m. Notre Dame Securlly/Police responded to a two vehicle accident on Ju­niper Ftoad. No Injuries were reported. 

Please support the American Red Cross 







Viewpoi-nt 
PageS Wednesday, December 4, 1991 



r 
r r r r r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
f 
r 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: weekend off, and tliat is per­orologists. Two, create a task 
This is my third year of en­fectly justifiable by law to have force of students to have access during South Bend weather, days off. to the grounds crew equipment. and during this time I have However, the weather does Their work can be paid or vol­managed to survive through not have a time clock or a untary. Money is not the issue. temperatures ranging from 43 contract to meet work sched­Instead, the safety of the people degrees below zero to 110 ules. The fact of the matter is living, working, and visiting this above. To be quite honest, I can that most of us were walking on campus is top priority. bare such "harsh" conditions. "thin ice" for nearly 48 hours Our boots can provide but so However, the one situation at before any efforts were made to much traction, therefore addi­Notre Dame that becomes most aid our progress. Believe me, I tional manual support is treacherous and least desired is am a die-hard hockey fan, but I needed. The last thing people the sight of snow. do not want to continue need to worry about is a serious 
I am talking about the Notre practicing for a New York injury, and a wrong slip on this Dame "Ice Factor." It can be Rangers tryout session in the ice can lead to such an oc­defined as these enormously midst of a residential area currence. Even though I have long sheets of ice (I have viewed intended for walking. been fortunate to avoid such some strips beginning from This entire scenario concern­and become extremely haz­instances, I have witnessed Walsh Hall and leading to the ing the "ice issue" perplexes me ardous to pedestrians and vehi­own. some less fortunate. Will it take, Lafortune Student Center) that because this is unlike anything I cles in the form of ice. The question then remains, a loved one of ours visiting are allowed to materialize on have encountered relating to In addition, trucks are what ought to be done? First, campus, a guest speaker, or a Notre Dame pavements. this issue. In my hometown of anxiously awaiting in the wings administration should focus on top administrator for action to 
This latest snowfall, on New York City, certain people available to pick up additional making sure that the pavements be done? November 23 {Saturday go through the "snowfall ritual" snow in the process. are safer for the numerous I hope something is done soon evening}, made me wonder just before significant, or Unfortunately at Notre Dame, students, faculty, and workers because the longer this problem again to why none of the pave­insignificant, snowfall comes there appears to be only three walking on them. continues, the risk of a serious ments were "salted" or even at-. down from the heavens. It in­options. One, place the chemical It should involve either of two injury occurring is intensified. tempted to be cleared until volves the placing of salt, or substance onto the ground methods. One, call in the about 10 o'clock the following other chemical substances, onto several hours after the snow grounds crew to come in on a Montoya Clemmons Monday morning. I was aware the pavement in order to has fallen. Two, have tractors weekend if snow is in the im­Morrissey Hall that the grounds crew had the prevent most of the snow from or trucks brush or pick up the mediate forecast of local mete-Nov. 26, 1991 
Reader responds to Phelps' idea to give stipends to student athletes 
Dear Editor:  course, referring to their full  receive scholarships, much less  me, the purpose of this article is  ileges enjoyed by athletes at a  
scholarships. When you factor  an annual stipend.  not to  bash  our  athletes, I  collegiate level is  payment  
I am writing today to com­ in books, tuition, room and  Thirdly, athletes enjoy many  realize that they are legitimate  enough for the sacrifices they  
ment on an issue raised by  board, and free tutoring if de­ privileges not shared by the  students. In addition, I believe  make in order to play what are  
Digger Phelps in a recent lec­ sired, this adds up to approxi­ student populace  at  large.  that they make many sacrifices  still amateur sports. Therefore,  
ture  which  he  gave  on  mately an $18,000 a year value  These include parking stickers  not made by the-average stu­ an annual stipend would be a  
Wednesday, November 20, in  at Notre Dame.  for choice lots as well as being  dent. They spent a great deal of  grave error. Athletes should  
Morrissey Hall. The issue to  ·  allowed to drive  on campus  time practicing and away from  acquire summer jobs, just like  
which I am referring is that of  Secondly, our athletes need  when they desire to do so. Many  school for game~  which would  the  rest of us,  to  earn  the  
giving Division I athletes an  only to achieve a composite  times, I have seen football play­ make keeping up with their  spending money they need to  
annual stipend in addition to  score of 700 on their SAT for  ers  allowed to  drive to  the  studies difficult. Also, they have  sustain them during the school  
their scholarships.  entrance to Notre Dame as well  bookstore, etc. while I have al­ to keep fit by not going out ev­ year.  
I am opposed to this for sev­ as NCAA eligibility. Meanwhile,  ways been denied this privilege  ery weekend to parties whereas  
eral reasons. The first is simply  the majority of the student body  by the guards at the entrance  the average student may.  T. Michael Stephenson  
that I feel that athletes are, in  averages a composite score of  gates.  To summarize, I feel that full  Off-Campus  
essence, paid already. I am, of  1200 or better, yet we do not  Please don't misunderstand  scholarships and the other priv- Nov. 21, 1991  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

l r 
r 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......••.••.•••.•••••••Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor....•••••..•.••.••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .....•...••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor••..•..•............ John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
OKAY, a/&!<£ H&AOIN6 
BACK TO MANHATTAN, {)(AY? I 60T ITAU, 
UNotR. aJNTROL., OKAY? 
ANO !HE TOU5 AI?& ON Mt, OI<AY? I !XJN'TtuANT YOU 7V 7HINI< I'M RIPPING YOU OffH&Rb .., a/HAT~ THAT 5/GN 5AY? C4N YaJstiJ!Tr 
I 
"IIJtUOM& 7D PENNSYLVANIA•? 
HbY, NO WAY! 50Mb7HING'5 
IAJR.ON6 TH&Rb.' OH, Ht'U-, 
I MUST HAV/3M15REAO /7: .. 

'Some will rob you with a six gun. Some with a fountain pen.' 
Woody Guthrie 

Go to Brooklyn hospital. or submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 


Accent 

Wednesday, December 4, 1991 Page9 
Jeannie Blasi 
From the Playpen 
Angry Domers 
should say, 

'Glitch this!' 

wise professor on·ce wrote to me, "Notre Dame has become a 
corporation, one whose only regret is 
that the business in which it finds itself 
is Education." 

This is sadly true as we make our claim as a 
"rnsearch institute." 
If we are going to be a major research in­stitutn, line, but ND is doing it at the expense of its students who come in search of "higher education." 
If ND is no longer interested in the business of educating its students, then maybe our name should be changed to the Notre Dame Research Institute-the "Frustrated Researchers." 
The ramifications of this shift are everywhrre, especially through the declining quality of our nducation. 
For example, the recent "hubbub" over the 
Arts and Letters "glitch" and the University's 
reaction to it shows the mass concern over our 
education. · 
Well, I have something to tell the 
Administration: "GLITCH THIS." 
Tho University placed a freeze on the largest college in the University which put a stop to all plans for maintenance and expansion of the departments. What kind of University would threaten its students' education over a miscalculation of funds? 
And, while the University so generously lifted its "hiring freeze," they neglected to inform the students that while the departments are free to fill present positions, they may not create new positions. (English majors, don't put that camping gear away yet!) 
Many departments' plans of a gradual ad­dition of faculty to alleviate problems of class size and class offerings have been halted as a result. 
The College of Arts and Letters clearly does not have enough funds to adjust to the in­creasing number of students enrolled in it. Most of thll departments have agreed that under­budgeting is a major obstruction in meeting the students' educational needs. 
The College of Arts and Letters needs more funds to increase its staff and the quality of 11ducation. Just ask any economics major. 
What does the University plan to do about this problflm? 
Obviously, nothing so far. 
!low many students were closed out of the majority of their classes or are stuck with classes they don't need? Students wait anxiously by the phones and dial madly when the bells ring at 7 p.m. to light for classes. 
In a U.S. News and World Report article, Notre Dame was listed as one of the Universities spending the least money per student in the United States. That's ironic in light of our ever­increasing tuition bills and the rather large sums in donations ND hauls in. The Pope is probably envious. 
My concern for Notre Dame is only for its future as a place of higher education and as a UnivP.rsity composed of its students and faculty. It is "we" who make this University-not the wealthy donors and NBC. The Administration seems to have forgotten this fact. 
The professors are not the ones at fault. It is difficult to get a "well-rounded" education when one has so few classes to choose from. Most non-English majors will never get into a 400­level English class. English majors rarely get into them. 
If students don't start investigating and questioning the University about this issue, this school will soon more appropriately be called "McDame" and our education will be as mediocre as a BigMac. 
Jeannie Blasi is assistant production manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Jeff Oakey, a Notre Dame senior, works with Lynn Dean as part of the Neighborhood Study Help Program, one of the many services offered at the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
Calm in the Storm 
Concerned residents provide hope for the Northeast Neighborhood 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Editor-in-Chief 
W 
hen people say that the Northeast Neighborhood is going to pot, Renelda Robinson responds by telling them they should look at the whole city-not just her neighborhood. 
She doesn't deny that there are problems in the area just south of the University-she sees the results of crime, drugs and poverty every day. Robinson spends most of her time trying to improve the situation, though. After all, it is her home and has been all of her life. 
Robinson serves as the director of the Northeast Neighborhood Service Center, located at 803 N. Notre Dame Ave., which provides over 40 services and programs for residents. She has served in this capacity since 1977. 
"Crime is one of the greatest concerns (in the Neighborhood)," says Robinson. She also cited drugs, unemployment, absentee landlords and children who do not go to school as other concerns. 
"We need the cooperation of city officials, elected officials and certainly of the Police Department," Robinson says. She believes more police visibility would help curb crime. 
"We need the police department, we need more resources and we need more community," she says. 
The center offers many services to try to make a positive impact on the community and to bring residents together. 
One of the programs offered at the center is the Neighborhood Study Help Program which consists of 15 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who tutor middle and elementary school students two times a week. 
Other services include a food and clothing bank, a blood pressure clinic 


'I would like to see it return to the neighborhood it was when I was a kid.' 
-Renelda Robinson 
and legal and tax assistance. Senior citizens can also take advantage of free lunch five days a week as part of a program sponsored by Real Services. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are active in the center, says Robinson. ROTC students recently participated in a cleanup project, students provide assistance during tax season and Grace Hall has a yearly fund-raiser for the center. Donations are often used to help those in need of assistance with utilities. 
"It's one of the greatest sections of South Bend because of the students and the University," she says. Robinson views it as a loss that many students do not live in the neighborhood anymore. "Our feeling toward Notre Dame people is not negative at all. They do great deeds." 
In addition ·to numerous Notre Dame. and Saint Mary's volunteers and donors, the United Religious Community and neighborhood churches donate items to the center. 
"The building of community is more important than the food in the basket," says Art Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Association and Notre Dame professor emeritus. 
Both Robinson and Quigley are active in the Neighborhood Association. This organization is made up of area residents who come together approximately once a month to talk about issues of concern. 
While the center helps provide services for those in need, she and Quigley and others also spend time trying to make long-term changes in the Neighborhood. They meet with representatives from Notre Dame and the city frequently to discuss problems and concerns. 
Both Notre Dame and the city play a role in the center. according to Quigley. The center does not receive regular funding, though the building is provided rent-free from the city. 
The land belongs to Notre Dame, but the city owns the actual building, a former firehouse. As long as it's used for not-for-profit purposes, the use of the building is up to the dis­cretion of the city. The city rents the building for $1 a year and also reimburses the center for utilities. 
Because she has lived in the neighborhood all of her life. Robinson says "it is one of the most beautiful (areas) in South Bend." 
She is saddened by the fact that children can no longer feel safe in their neighborhood. "I grieve for my children and grandchildren," says Robinson. She has eight children, 11 grandchildren and five great­grandchildren, many of whom live in the neighborhood. 
"I would like to see it return to the neighborhood it was when I was a kid," she says. 
Robinson is hopeful about the situation in the neighborhood. "We ­have to have hope. We have to be positive about the whole situation, if we didn't we'd die." 
She says that she and others are 
going to "take the neighborhood back so people can live decently. ­
"If we give up, we're lost," Robinson says. "Dedicated people have to keep fighting to make the situation better." 

Notices TYPING AVAILABLE  Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call277-8866 Tues/Sat. 1Oam/5pm.  SUGAR BOWL PACKAGE 4 DAYS 3 NIGHTS SUPERDOME HYATI + 4 TICKETS TO GAME. $1200 CALL ANDY 407·894-7489.  SPRING BREAK IN CANCUN! IT WILL BE HERE BEFORE YOU KNOW IT! OUTGOING CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE WANTED BY THE NATIONS LARGEST AND  DearBo, I hope you had a good Thanksgiving! I'm having a Christmas party Friday night and you are always welcome.  YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOP Hours 10:00 • s:oo Handcrafted Gifts from 59 Nations  
287-4082  Near N.D.  ONE MORE TRY!  MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING  From Ireland-Claddagh .J.....-elry  
Word processing IBM Compatible Extensive experience w/ theses, dissertations, manuscripts, publications, senior projects, etc. Professional results! 277-9273 ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259·8684.  cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 dep. ret. 288-7207 2 bedroom-2bath w/lolt at Oakhill Condominums $650.00 per month Available immediately Please no undergraduates Includes washer/dryer microwave and all appliances Call (2191277-1997  WASH. D.C. CLUB X-MAS BUS! Sign-up Weds. Dec. 4, 7-9p.m. Basement of Lafortune $55.1way $110 rt We need at least 40 people. LIFE HAS NO MEANING AND DEATH EVEN LESS, AS THE ABSURDITY IS EVER-PRESENT. THE WHITE VOID ENVELOPS OUR PITIFUL AND SHORT  BREAK TOUR OPERATOR. RECEIVE A FREE TRIP AND CASH FOR PROMOTING OUR TRIPS TO YOUR FRIENDS AND CLASSMATES. CALL 1-800-395· 4896 THE COUNTRY HARVESTER CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE Monday thru Friday Dec. 2-6, 11 am-5pm Sat. Dec. 7, 11am-4pm  Kelly, Good luck on all your work! Jennysinker and Kel, ONLY 25 MORE DAYS! DEAR LIZA: DON'T WORRYI Everything will  Mu1-ic Boxes From Sweden • Miniature Lucia From Bali ·.Jewelry, Wood Fagureo From Kenya • Wood Cravings, Thumb Pianos Boxeo from Poland, ladia, Thailand ; Nativities from El Salvador, Nigeria United Nations Association International Gift: Shop Z].10 Miaha"Wak.a Ave.,  
WORD PROCESSING  2 AM'S FOR RENT  EXISTENCES.  Holiday refreshments served  work out just fine.  South Bend  
256·6657  200 PER MONTH  while you browse.  
USE OF ALL UTILITIES  ENJOY, ALL YOU MEANINGLESS  Lower Level LaFortune  ah- 
Fast, Professional Typing 277-7406  ASK FOR PAUL 232·2794  ONES!  "Daft"  1?...!?...I?... I? ...I?... 1?...I?  i know about your syr scandal -your boyfriend  
GRATEFUL HEAD&-­ 
''CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS..  For Sale  "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A  1NEED A BOOTLEG THAT  Ryan,  
For anyone going to Long Island, NYC, or NJI Safe travel, VCR, and  1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS  PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF  HAS A GOOD VERSION OF "THEY LOVE EACH OTHER''  Please accept my apology-I should mind my own business!  
$110 round trip. Sign up in LaFortune(O'Hara room) on WED.  COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GRAY LEATHER. LOADED  CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW 4:00 PM.  ON IT... Call271-1211 and ask for  Kristin  
12/4, 8-10PM!!  W/EVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES. $18,500 277·3784.  NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  JOE. I only need to borrow it  MD and JD I hope you guys had tun at my  
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS  tor two hours!  home! Sorry you didn't get to meet  
Lost and Found  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  INVITED.  It would be GRATELY  the BIG man.  
89 MERCEDES $200,  appreciatedllllllllllllllll!!!!!!lll!lllllllllll!!  
 
FOUND: RING IN DEClO. SEE JANITOR AND IDENTIFY. **********HELP****•••••• I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY· FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE, IN. CHRIS X4327. LOST: A black men's overcoat at the Farley/Fisher/Carroll Formal(at the K of C coat check) I TOOK THE WRONG ONE! MIKE X1042 LOST-THICK SILVER CHAIN with BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23. Christmas gilt from  86 VW$50 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. ann klein rust suede jacket sm $40/bst offr & othr designr clothes 287·5926 Tickets Chp. Rndtrp. male tix. for sale, ND to Los Ang., 12120 to 1/13; x1558  PART TIME SALES REPRESENTATIVE WANTED TO SELL NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL YEARBOOK, AND ANNUAL PREVIEW. EARN $10 FOR EACH $50 MEMBERSHIP SOLD. OUTSTANDING EARNINGS POTENTIAL, NO CAP ON INCOME. IDEAL COLLECTABLE AND GIFT ITEM FOR ALUMNI AND SERIOUS COLLEGE SPORTS FAN. WE ARE CELEBRATING OUR 10TH ANNIVERSARY IN PRODUCING QUALITY SPORTS PUBLICATIONS. IF YOU HAVE THE CREATIVE ENERGY, AND SALES ABILITY, CONTACT MIKE HERMAN AT 1-800-776-2695 TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW.  !?...!? ...!? ...!? ...!? ...!? ...! Hey Diane,Debbie & Jill A 30-year-old woman's orgasm is in direct relation to her years of experience. -P "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW 4:00 PM. NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS INVITED. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROLYN SERAPHIN! We know you love your obsession. He may not be the Lizard King, but  I "Ff:iE"E7e;;ial:;h1p;;dl rental of equal value I Br~ng ad Lrmrl 1 · Hurry'l Exprres rn 10 days· I VIdeo Warehouse 2022 South Bnnd I ~!!..!J1J2~~2.,jfiiB_J SEXUAL HARASSMENT/ AS SALT IS NOT A PROBLEM HERE AT ND. 8 INCIDENCES OF SEXUAL ASSALT THIS YEAR 8 INCIDENCES OF HARASSMENT TO  RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! DAYTONA BEACH ·~ Sf04 5 ana 7 NJCHTS SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ·~Sf28 5 AND 7 NIGHTS STEAMBOAT ·~ Sf22 2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS PANAMA CITY BEACH ·~Sf22 7 NIGHTS FORT LAUDERDALE ,.,.SfJ6 7 NIGHTS HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,_Sff9 5 AND 7 NIGHTS MUSTANG ISLAND I ,.,.Sf2B PORT ARANSAS 5 AND 7 NIGHTS nth Annual Celebration! TOLL FREE INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS ~ ~  
parents-serious sentimental value.  GLEE CLUB  he does resemble a lion.  ~~  
Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions  H E L P! I need graduation tickets  CHRISTMAS CONCERT  KOOCHIE KOOCHIE COO  
asked  for my family in Dallas, TX. Call JJ X48151  Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15  Luv, The Wild Women  ACNE  
LOST: REDDISH-BROWN RABBIT FUR EARMUFFS  Spend New Year's in Florida! $2,400 Value! 3 AT tix Indy to Miami  Due to reduced seating, tickets will be sold for the first time ever@ info desk in  K-HO Top Quotes From Sat Nile: 1) I was sober when I was sitting on his lap.  A NASTY FOUR LEITER WORD  
ONE EAR SLIGHTLY TORN GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA AT X4862  Lv ?am 12125, Retrn 4pm 1/5 Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188  LaFortune tor $1. HURRY, HURRY. AVOID THE RUSH. PLACE YOUR  2) Orbie:" He kissed her good nitel" K-Ho:"lt was on the cheek it doesn't count when it's on  If you had started on clear Care Acne  
Wanted  Personal Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  CHRISTMAS GREETING PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, DEC. 13.  the cheek!" 3) Stop touching my t_ing butt! Gee, maybe 1 daquari is 1 too  Treatment 30 days ago, you would be  
- $40,000/yrl READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB. HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2­BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan 1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. Need ride to Michigan City on Saturday. IF you can help me call 3710.  Monica Eigelberger is a ho. GETAWAY WEEKEND KOONTZ HOUSE BED 'N BREAKFAST 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE DAME 586-7090 stronger than burt INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  hey nil 000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education.  many. We'll have to do this again. Where are the 5th floor flanner guys when you need them. NeX1 time you won't get toasted will you?(NOT)! Your roomie to be ORBIE J.L I still think you're incredibly good­looking. Anon. admirer from afar THE CHRISTMAS CAROLI!! THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!!  clear of Acne today For free samples, information on ho Clear Care's topical medications work, Call our Skin Care Information Line  Gd J0111 NlJM8U lw 1HIIll 1ffl pri«S• ....~ ........,, •Eurall Aexlpas $230 (5 days w/in 15 days, 1st clcss) •Youth Flexlpa55 $340 (15 days, 2nd class) •Youth Rallpass :--:---$425 (1 month, 2nd class) •Rm£sscheduled IC ris£asrnuctJ as 20%oo Jnwy  
- SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791.  289·1993. Office near campus. SPRING BREAK '92· YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE  Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800­456-2656.  THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! See the Flanner/Siegfried Players perform the Dickens holiday classic. Dec. 5, 6, and 7 at 8:10p.m. in  (800) 435-3533  
SO DON'T BLOW ITII DO IT IN  - Washington Hall.  
For Rent  JAMAICAICANCUN STARTING AT  Lando lives ..... & we wish he was still  Cost: $2 students/$3 non-students  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  A LOW $4591 ORGANIZE GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE 1-800-426­ stuck in chicago  (to benefit Dismas House)  
219-291·7153  77101  ZAHM: ALWAYS LOSERS.  "And God bless us, everyone."  

Wednesday, December 4, 1991 
page 10 The Observer 


Mitchell's rape arrest scares other teams away 
early Saturday morning. athletes only to be proved un­ronment he was brought up in," appearances were the lowest of SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -The "It's very obvious that Kevin founded. But, still, Rosen was Rosen said. "He was brought up his six-year career. He under­arrest and possibility of formal Mitchell was sought by other clearly unsettled by the episode. in an environment we only read went arthroscopic knee surgery clubs," Giants general manager ''I've always been three steps about and abhor. It's difficult for in June and an injured groin
charges being filed against 

Kevin Mitchell has the San AI Rosen said Tuesday. "Kevin to the right of Genghis Khan him to extract himself from that and sore wrist limited him to was the one player who was when it comes to bad behavior," environment and separate just four starts in the Giants'
Francisco Giants stymied in their quest to trade for quality singled out by myself and other Rosen said. "It's very difficult himself from the people." final 26 games. pitching at the winter meetings. people in our front office who for me to sit here and talk Especially since Mitchell is a 
Mitchell, a former MVP who could bring us the kind of about this. I'm very upset and millionaire athlete. Despite that, Rosen said, 
"He's famous and he has a lot there was considerable interest
has averaged 38 home runs and pitching we need. disappointed." 

of money," Rosen said. "People in Mitchell as trade talks began
95 RBis the last three seasons, "Obviously other teams are 

going to have concerns now Mitchell, who was dropped off are always hanging around. heating up leading into the win­
was the player the Giants 

about Kevin. They have to be on at Candlestick Park late last The leeches are always going to ter meetings, which begin
planned to offer in hopes of 

fmdhim." Friday in Miami. Mitchell's ar­
improving on last year's fourth­hold." season by a friend who was 
place finish in the NL West. later arrested on suspicion of rest, however, will be viewed Mitchell, 29, was arrested being an accomplice in a mur­Mitchell was named NL MVP differently. That was until Mitchell was Saturday and is free after der of a San Diego police officer, in 1989 after leading the league arrested and booked on six posting a $61,000 bond. grew up in southeast San Diego, with 47 homers and 125 RBis, "There will always be a a predominantly lower-income but hit only 27 homers with 69 stigma, regardless," Rosen said. 
felony counts after he was ac­Rosen expressed his support cused of rape by a female ac­of Mitchell, pointing out that no area that has been plagued by RBis during an injury-riddled "Kevin is one of those people 
who remind me of the saying,
quaintance, who alleged the in­charges had been formally ftled gang activity for years. 1991 season. 
Mitchell started only 99 'If trouble were looking for an
cident took place at Mitchell's yet and that many allegations of "I suppose a great deal of his 
problems stem from the envi-games last season and his 113 heir, he'd be it."' 
home in Chula Vista, Calif., this type are made against 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds

Classifieds 

must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

-----~----­
Wednesday, December 4, 1991 
SCOREBOARD 
page 11 

INDIANA 78, NOTRE DAME 46 
INDIANA 78, NOTRE DAME 48 
NOTRE DAME (0·2) 
Ellla 7-13 1·2 15, Ruesell D-1 0-0 0, Joe Roas D-0 0·0 0, Bennett 5·14 2·2 14, Sweel3-7 1·2 7, Taylor 14 
0-0 3, Tower D-00-0 0, Jon Rosa 1-1 2·2 4, Williams 0.3 0.0 0, Gilmore 0.2 0-0 0, Boyer 1·3 Q.O 3, Cozen 
Q.l 0-0 0. Totals 111-4116-8 48. 
INDIANA (2·1) 
Henderson 3-7 1·3 7, Cheaney 6·14 5-7 19, Nover 2·3 0·0 4, Graham 4·7 6-10 14, Reynolds 1oo4 3-8 5, 
Bailey 3-7 4-4 11, Anderson 7·10 0.1 14, Meeks 2·5 0-0 4, Lindeman Q.l 0-0 0, Leary 0.2 Q.O 0. Total& 28· 
8019-33 78. 
Halftime-Indiana 40, Notre Dame 21. 3·Polnt goals-Notre Dame 4·11 (Bennett2-4, Taylor 1·1, Boyer 1· 2, WiiUams 0.1, Cozen 0.1, Sweet 0.2), Indiana 3·9 (Cheaney 2·2, Bailey loo4, Reynolds 0.1, Leary 0.2). Fouled out-None. Rebounda-Notre Dame 39 (Ellis 13), Indiana 35 (Cheaney, Bailey 5). Aaslsla-Notre Dame 10 (Bennett, Taylor 2), Indiana 15 (Reynolda 5). Total fouls-Notre Oema 25, Indiana 14. A-16,785. 
ILLINOIS 78, TENNESSEE STATE 56 
llllnola 78, Tanneaaee State 55 Tenn••••• State (1·3) Moore 4-6 0.2 8, Beckham 1-3 0-2 2, Burwell1·4 3·6 5, Horton 5-14 3·6 17, Bond 3-11 0-0 9, Wilson 3­10 2-4 8, Jones 1·2 0-0 3, Edwards 1·2 Q.O 2, Whaley 1-6 0·0 2. Totals 20-58 8-20 58. llllnola (2·1) Mlchael4·7 0.2 11, Pierce 2-4 5-811, Thomas 10·13 3·6 23, Clemons 2·3 2·2 6, Wheeler 3-5 Q.O 7, Geera 
0.5 Q.O 0, Taylor 1·3 0.2 3, Bennett 3-12 0-1 6, Davidson 1·6 0·0 3, Tuttle 1·3 4·4 8, Clarida 0-0 0.0 0, 
WUNama 1·1 0.0 2, Maher Q.O 0-0 0, Sloan 0.0 0-0 0, Quia 0·2 0.0 0, Ostendorf 0-0 0-0 0, Roth 1oo4 0.1 2. T otala 29-68 14·23 78. 
Halftlme-IIMnola 45, Tennessee State 13. 3-polntera-Tennesaee State 8-17 (Horton 4-11, Bond 3-8, 
WNson 0.1, Jones 0.1), lllnola 8-18 (Michael3·5, Clemons Q.f, Wheeler H. Geers 0.2, Taylor 1-2, 
Davldaon 1oo4, Tuttle 0.1, Dull 0.2). Fouled Out-Davidson. Rebounda-Tenneasee State 37 (Bond 7), 
llllnola 45 (Wheeler 5). Aulata-Tennessee State 10 (Horton, Wilson 3), Illinois 20 (Pierce, Clemons, 
Taylor 4). Total foula-Tennesaee State 16, llllnola 18. 
A-11,274. 
BALL STATE 81, MISSISSIPPI STATE 52 
BALL ST. 81, MISSISSIPPI ST. 52 
MISSISSIPPI ST. (3-2) 
Evana 4·7 1·2 10, Watta 7·12 0·0 16, Stevena 3-10 2·2 8, Smith 3·111·1 7, Waker 1·7 0.1 2, Watson 0.2 
0-0 o, Brooka 0.0 0-0 o, Morria 3-9 0-0 6, Anderson 0·5 0-0 0, Domingue 1·1 1-3 3. Totals 22-62 5-9 52. 
BALL ST. (2·1) 
Stalling 6-15 3-3 16, Broz 3-5 2·3 8, Glllla 9-15 7·11 25, Thorrpaon 7-17 7·11 22, Spicer 1·3 2·2 4, 
Matthawa 0.2 0-0 0, Hardwick 0.2 0.1 0, Robbins 1·3 0·0 2, Winders 1·1 Q.O 2, Turner 0·2 0-0 0, Berry 1·2 
0-0 2. Totala 29-67 21·31 81. 
Halhlma-Ball St. 48, Mlul811ppl St. 32. 3-Polnt goala-Misslsalppl St. 3·10 (Watts 2oo4, Evans 1·1, Waker 0·1, Watson 0.1, Smtth 0.3), Ball St. 2·12 (Stalling 1·3, Thorrpaon 1·5, Spicer D-1, Hardwick 0.1, Robblna 0.2). Fouled out-Stevena. Rebounds-Mississippi St. 39 (Stewna 10), Ball St. 47 (GIIha 11). Aaalaii-Miaalulppl St. 12 (Evana 5), Ball St. 22 (Spicer 8). Total foula-MIBIIsslppl St. 24, Ball St. 17. 
A~.880. 
IOWA 83, DRAKE 56 
IOWA 83, DRAKE 511 DRAKE (0·1) 
Celestine 4-4 0.1 II, Murphy 3-9 Q.O 7, Thomas 4·13 2·2 10, Raveling 3·1 0 Q.O 6, Surla Q.l O.Q 0, Jones 4·6 1·211, Oalney 2·8 2-4 7, King 1·3 0·0 2, Evans 0.3 0-0 0, Prylow 2·5 0·0 4, Blaglettl 0-0 0-0 0, Brett Sherrill 1·3 0-0 2, Brent Sherrill 0.1 0.0 0. Totals 24·66 5·9 58. IOWA (3·0) 
Davia 5-113-3 13, Street 2·3 2·2 6, Eari 10.11 5-8 25, Barnes 5-10 0·0 10, Moses 2·5 2·2 7, Lookingbill!· 3 2·2 4, Skinner Q.l 2·2 2, Winters 2·2 2·5 6, Tubbs 1·3 ().0 3, Lusk 1·5 2·2 4, Webb Q.O 1·2 1, Chima 0.1 2-4 2. O'Connor ().0 0-0 0, Givan! Q.l 0.0 0. Totals 29-54 23·32 83. 
Halftlm&-iowa 55, Drake 27. 3-Polnt goals-Drake 3·18 (Celestine 1·1, Murphy 1-4, Raveling 0.2, Dafney 1·5, Evans 0.3, Prylow 0.3), Iowa 2·11 (Davis Q.l, Street D-1, Barnes 0.3, Moses 1·2, Skinner 0.1, Tubbl 1·1, Lulk 0.2). Fouled out-Celestine, Thomas. Rebounds-Drake 31 (Thomas 7), Iowa 41 (Eari 12). Aaalatt-Oral<e 14 (Surta 7), Iowa 15 (Moses 3). Totalloula-Orake 26, Iowa 15. A-15,100. 


®BOOKC 
Address· Phone· Hours 
AmemtM:r ulthc !,tulr l'mft'uur fumlv 11flnnll}·11wncd bu ·~•om 
Ironwood Plaza North 
Telephone (219) 277-4488
(near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood 
Hours: Mon.-Sat; 10:00-9:00
South Bend, IN 46637 
SIUlday: 10:00-5:00 
NFL LEADERS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Paaaera  
An  Com  Yds  TD lnt  
Kelly, Buff.  411  262  3378  28  16  
Kosar, Clev.  381  239  2784  15  4  
Krieg, Sea.  195  136  1557  9  8  
O'Brien, Jets  391  238  2808  10  8  
Marino, Mia  430  241  312t  17  11  
O'Donnell, Pitt.  256  140  1775  II  6  
Moon, Hou.  543  333  3950  19  19  
OeBerg, K.C.  3511  217 2397  14  II  
Elway, Den.  357  193  2591  10  7  
Millen, N.E.  316  193  2356  6  13  
Ruehera  
An  Yds  Avg  LG TD  
Thomas, Bun.  267 1316  4.9  33  7  
Okoye,K.C.  217  999  4.6  48  9  
Green, Den.  200  846  4.2  63  4  
Russell, N.E.  205  720  3.5  24  4  
Higgs, Mia.  178  717  4.0  24  3  
Thomas, Jets  171  671  3.9  25  2  
But11,S.O.  152  665  4.4  44  6  
Bematlne, S.D.  129  620  4.8  27  4  
Williams, Sea.  153  616  4.0  42  3  
Green, Cln.  117  569  4.9  75  2  
Pinkett, Hou.  141 5611  4.0  31  7  
Recelvera  
No  Yda  Avg  LG TO  
JeHires, Hou.  83  981 11.8  42  5  
Cook, N.E.  70  670  9.6  33  3  
Reed, Bun.  67  910 13.6  55  8  
Hill, Hou.  87  8n  13.1  61  4  
Fryar, N.E.  62  932 15.0  56  3  
Toon, Jets  82  847 13.7  32  0  
Blades, Sea.  58  854 14.7  52  2  
Givins, Hou.  56  822 14.7  49  3  
Brooks, Ind.  55  682 12.4  35  4  
Thomas, Bun.  55  555 10.1  50  5  
Punter•  
NO  Yds  LG  Avg  
Roby, Mia.  49  2201  64  44.9  
Gossett. Aalders  52  2302  61  44.3  
Johnson, Cin.  51  2240  60  43.9  
Stark, Ind.  60  2612  65  43.5  
Gr.Montg'ry, Hou.  36  1556  60  43.2  
Tuten, Sea  34  1448  60  42.6  
Hansen, Clev.  65  2761  65  42.5  
Horan, Den.  56  2369  71  42.3  
McCarthy, N.E.  50  2046  93  40.9  
Barker, K.C.  45  1813  57  40.3  
Punt  Return•  
No  Yds  Avg  LG TO  
Brown, Aalders  26  315 12.1  75  1  
Woodson, Pitt.  23  276 12.0  40  0  
Taylor, S.D.  24  262 '  10.9  48  0  
Warren, Sea.  25  238  9.4  59  1  
Miller, Mia.  23  191  8.3  17  0  
Henderson, N.E.  20  152  7.6  39  0  
Mathis, Jets  18  129  7.2  25  0  
Coleman, Hou.  17  98  5.8  24  0  
Kickoff Returner•  
NO  Yds  Avg  LG TD  
Lewis, S.D.  19  501 26.4  95  1  
Warren, Sea.  28  633 22.6  55  0  
Vaughn, N.E.  26  582 22.4  99  1  
Williams, K.C.  24  524 21.8  76  0  
Elder, S.D.  22  456 20.7  42  0  
Pinkett, Hou.  21  432 20.6  41  0  
Mathis, Jets  26  526 20.2  50  0  
Woodson, Pitt.  39  782 20.1  47  0  
Craver, Mia.  25  488 19.5  49  0  


National Football Conference 
Paaaera 

An Com Yds TD lnt Ryplen, Wash. 342 208 2948 23 10 Young, S.F. 243 157 2158 14 8 Akman, Oal. 363 237 2754 11 10 Hostetler, Glanta 285 179 2032 5 4 Gannon, Minn. 271 166 1644 10 5 McMahon, PhN. 300 181 2166 12 II Hebert,N.O. 185 109 1256 8 7 Walsh, N.O. 216 115 1400 9 6 Ewrett, Rama 404 232 2948 9 13 Miller, All. 3111 166 2347 19 17 Ruahera 
An Yda Avg LG TD &.Sanders, Oat. 269 1241 4.6 69 13 E.Smtth, Oall. 281 1216 4.3 75 10 Byner, Wash. 220 838 3.8 25 5 Hampton, Giants 1117 805 4.1 44 9 Anderson, Chi. 202 734 3.6 42 8 Waker, Minn. 167 667 4.0 411 8 Cobb, T.B. 151 621 4.1 59 6 Delpino, Rama 194 611 3.1 36 9 Johnson, Phoe. 162 555 3.4 21 2 Henderson, S.F. 131 545 42 25 2 Receiver• 
No Yda Avg LG TD 
Irvin, Oall. 73 1181 15.9 66 6 Rison, All. 66 BOO 12.1 39 10 C.Carter. Minn. 63 797 12.7 42 5 Rlce,S.F. 62 933 15.0 73 9 Monk, Wash. 57 848 14.11 64 8 Clark, Wash. 56 1027 18.3 82 8 Turner, N.O. 55 848 15.4 65 7 Ellard, Rama 54 906 16.8 ·38 2 Sharpe, G.B. 54 780 14.4 58 4 Novacek. Oall. ~ R02 11.1 49 4 Punter• 
NO Yda LG Avg Newsome, Minn. 58 2673 65 46.t Camarillo, Phoe. ,61 2754 60 45.1 Saxon,~~-45 1951 62 43.4 Fuihage, All. 67 2896 58 43.2 Barnhardt, N.O. 76 3281 61 43.2 Landeta, Giants 55 2371 61 43.1 Feagles, Phil. 70 2952 77 42.2 Arnold, Del. 55 2315 63 42.1 McJullen, G.B. 69 2816 57 40.8 Buford, Chi. 58 2359 64 40.7 
Punt Returner• 

No Yds Avg LG TO Mhchell, Wash. 33 510 15.5 69 2 Gray,Oet. 22 290 13.2 42 0 Meggett, Giants 26 274 10.5 70 1 Taylor, S.F. 24 252 10.5 24 0 Drewrey, T.B. 32 298 9.3 33 0 Jackson, Phoe. 22 204 9.3 19 0 Skahema, G.B. 26 239 9.2 62 0 Turner, Rams 23 201 8.7 29 0 Sanders, All. 20 170 8.5 23 0 V.Buck. N.O. 31 280 8.4 52 0 
Kickoff Returner• 
NO Yds Avg LG TD Glay, Oat. 32 663 27.0 71 0 Wllaon, G.B. 20 492 24.6 82 1 O.Carter, S.F. 28 667 23.8 98 1 Sanders, All. 18 408 22.7 1001 Dixon, Oall. 18 398 22.1 39 0 Nelson, Minn. 24 491 20.5 47 0 M.chell, Wash. 25 510 20.4 35 0 Meggett, Giants 19 373 19.6 34 0 
C11!R]SPJvf54S S.YU./E 
JACC VARSITY SHOP JACC FIELDHOUSE Enter Gate 3 
SALE RUNS TRRU DEC. 2Ist 
Weekdays 3-6 pm Sat 9-3 pm Closed Sundays ar hi ual merchandise 
COLL'E(j'E l9{'EL.918f}J ptj(O(j9{f49vl 
SAINT MART'S COLLEGE INFORMATION MEETING TONIGHT 7:00P.M. 304 HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER-5MC 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL-NillTlBd Leonard 
S. Coleman, Jr. director of market diMIIopment. National League 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Announced the retirement ol Fred Kuhlmann, Pf•ldent end chief executive ollloer, alfectlve • the end ol the year. BASKETBALL National B..ketball A..oclatlon 
NBA-Suopended Gleg Khe, Oriando Magic center, lor two gamee wtthout pay and lined him $7,500, and Rony Selkaly, Miami Heal center, one game without pay and lined him $5,000, lor their roles In a light In a game on Nov. 30. Fined Soott Skiles, Terry Catledge, Mark Acres and Morlon Wiley, Orlando playera, and Steve Smhh and WMIIe Burton, Mlarri players, $500 each lor leaving the bench during the light. 
PHILADELPHIA 76EA8-Piaced Mkchell Wigglna, guard, on the Injured llat. Signed Michael Ansley, forward, to a !·year contract. Continental Baaketball Aeaoclatlon 
COLUMBUS HORIZON-Traded the rlghll to Elliot Perry, gu81d, and future c:onalderatlona to LaCroese, lor Byron Irvin, guatd, and a player to be determined later. 
ROCKFORD LIGHTENING-Signed Ron Moore, center. Waived Glynn Blackwell and Steve Berger guards. BOXING 
WORLD BOXING ASSOCIATION-Vaca1ed the middleweight title held by Mike MoCaRum of Jamalce bec:auae he violated aaaoclallon rulea. FOOTBALL National Football league 
CINCINNATI.BENGALS-Signed Mike Whhycombe, oHenslve linemen. 
CLEVELAND BAOWNS-Amounced the retirement of Danny Peebles. wide recelver-lllck returner. 
PHOENIX CAROINAL5-Piaoed Tim McDonald, safety, on Injured reserve. Signed Richard Fain, safety. Adlvated Joe wo•. guard, from Injured reserve. R•slgned Mka Nord, tackle. to the practice aguad. 
PITTSBURGH STEELEA5-Signed Steve Avery, 
running beck, to thelt practice aquad. 
World league ol American Football 
WALF-NillTlBd Damon Caldwell financial 
analyst. 
Arena Football 
SAN ANTONIO FORCE-Named Dick Nolan 
coach. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey league 
NHL-Suspended Gary Leeman, Toronto Maple 
Leafs' right wing, for four games for a atlck· 
swinging Incident In a game vs. Mlnn.,.ota on Nov. 
28. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Recalled Boris Aou81on, 
goaltender; Shaun Sabol, delenaeman; Mark 
Jansaens and Brian McReynolds. centers; Steven 
King, right wtng, and Ale: Bennett, left wing, from 
Binghamton olthe American Hockey League. 
Eaat Coaat Hockey league 
LOUISVILLE ICEHARKS-Piaced Joe Boc:d, 
delenaeman, and Kurt Johnson, center, on 
waivers. 
HORSE RACING 
THE MEAOOWLANOS-NillTlBd Bruce H. Gariand general manager for standardbred racing. 
Nolan Ryan, Rangers 4,200,000 

·t~:~{#i!mi¥:::::!\\:!f\::::tilf8.ii~l; 
Darryl Strawberry, Dodgers 4,050,000 
:9.00'\Mf~i~;':fi.MI~\:\!\\\\\\\\\\::~;~;Q®: 
Fred McGriff, Padres 3,812,500 AP/Aian Basedo 


Spike Lee's 

JUNGLE FEVER 
TONIGHT 
Carroll Auditorium' 7 & 10:15 Admission $1 

~----------~ ---­

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, December 4, 1991 
Magic opts not to attend AIDS news conference 
Decision has nothing to do with Johnson's health 
of control that it was health "Once Magic came forward 
NEW YORK (AP) -Magic related, I don't know," Klein and made the announcement Johnson will not attend a news said. "It was not a health-re­that he had contracted the conference Wednesday to an­lated case. It was a scheduling virus, we thought somehow this nounce a pay-for-view televi­thing." could be a benefit for AIDS," sion special to benefit AIDS re­He said he did not know what the source said. "It's still kind of search, but his agent says it's Johnson was scheduled to do in the planning stages." not because of his health. Wednesday. 
The New York Post reported "Anytime you're dealing with Originally, a news conference today that several sources said a celebrity. who is front-page for Nov. 20 was announced by the retired Los Angeles Lakers news, there's going to be the Plaza in a press release on star "does not feel up to" mak­scheduling difficulties," Klein Nov. 15. Under a headline ing the cross-country trip for said. "It was still up in the air." which read, "Donald Trump the promotional appearance Brings 'Magic' to the Big with Donald Trump at the Plaza But Rosen said "That's not Apple," the release said Trump Hotel. true. There was never an as­and Johnson would have a 
sumption that he was going to "big" announcement in the ho­
Johnson's agent, Lon Rosen, be there." tel's Baroque Room. said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles that the re­Klein. said alternatives, in­It said Johnson would be port was a "publicity stunt" by cluding having Johnson appear making his first New York ap­Trump officials. via satellite at the news confer­pearance since his announce­
"There was never a time ence, were looked at but could ment about being HIV-positive. 
when Magic Johnson was sup­not be worked out. 

l posed to go to a press confer­Earlier, a spokeswoman at Taj Catherine Saxton, a ence in New York or the Taj Mahal casino said, "We can't spokeswoman for the Plaza, Mahal," Rosen said. "Magic's comment on Magic's health." who had announced the news health has been fine. He's been "I don't really know the state conference originally, said today seen shooting baskets, running of Magic's health," Sharon it was put off from the three miles a day." Pearce said. November date "because the "He may be busy with treat­hotel was so booked, there was Howard Klein, senior vice ment or something. But you absolutely no place to hold it at president of marketing for have to ask his people about that date." Trump's Taj Mahal in Atlantic that." City, N.J., which will be the set­Johnson made his announce­ting for the Feb. 28 show, A source at the Taj Mahal said ment and announced his re­blamed a scheduling conflict. the pay-per-view television tirement Nov. 7. special, a one-on-one competi­He began taking AZT, the "There was definitely a posi­tion between retired basketball standard treatment for infection tive indication of participation players Julius Erving and with the AIDS virus, on Nov. 17. at some point," Klein said. "It Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, was The drug can cause anemia, was not set in stone, but it had planned before Johnson's an­nausea and muscle pain. been discussed in a very posi­nouncement that he had the tive way. virus that causes AIDS. "The word was he's too sick "We set up the press confer­to come to New York for the ence on two assumptions, one Once that announcement was press conference," an unidenti­-that he would be there; two made, the casino began plan­fied staffer at the Taj Mahal told -that he would not be there," ning to find some way to turn the Post. Klein said. the event into an AIDS benefit, "That's part of the reason it's "How the thing got spun out the source said. taken so long to get this going." 
•l 

Syracuse's McRae to appeal ruling 
will participate, he said. pealed McRae's suspension to SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­
Hill declined to comment on the NCAA's eligibility staff, but Syracuse center Conrad McRae what basis the appeal is being was rejected.
will appeal his suspension to made on. The committee is a four­
the NCAA Eligibility Committee The NCAA informed Syracuse member panel of faculty repre­on Wednesday, but an NCAA of­officials Nov. 19 that evidence sentatives and athletic directors 
ficial was not sure how quickly brought to its attention by the from NCAA member schools. 
a decision would be made. 
university as part of the school's Should the committee turn 
"There's no time frame. I feel ongoing investigation into down McRae's appeal, he would certain they'll discuss it before alleged wrongdoing with the have one more step in the ap­deciding," NCAA spokesman Orangemen basketball program peals process; that being the Jim Marchiony said. 
constituted an unfair recruiting subcommittee of Division I 
The committee will hear 
advantage for Syracuse. members of the NCAA Council. 
McRae's appeal via a confer­
The violations that made If none of the appeals suc­
ence telephone call at 6 p.m. 
McRae ineligible involved ceed, McRae would be able to EST, said Marchiony. 
"street agent" Rob Johnson of play at any other school for at Syracuse submitted an appeal 
New York City, NCAA officials least a year and a half byletter to the NCAA last have said. Johnson's involve­transferring before next Wednesday, a day after an­ment with former Orangemen semester, Marchiony said. 
nouncing that the 6-foot-10 ju­
Tony Scott led to NCAA sanc­McRae averaged 5 points and nior from Brooklyn was per­tions against Texas A&M, where 3.5 rebounds a game as a manently ineligible to play for Scott transferred after playing sophomore. He was projectedthe Orange just minutes before at Syracuse. as Syracuse's starting center 
their regular season-opener Syracuse immediately ap-before his suspension. against Cornell. 
Syracuse spokesman Robert Hill said senior vice president Louis G. Marcoccia and mem­bers of his staff and legal 
counsel would represent the 
$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks 

Be apart of it this yearl
of your summer devoted to service work 

We need chairpeople as well as
In cities of Alumni Clubs all over the country 



commiHee members. 
INFORMATION MEETING DEC. 4 7:00 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 


can283c3891 
to join or for more infol 


Wednesday, December 4, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Willis's 29 points, 31 rebounds pace Hawks, 103-99 


Great Gift Ideas 
DALLAS (AP) -Kevin Willis continued his dominating re­bounding with a career-high 31, and he also scored 29 points in Atlanta's victory Dallas. 
Willis, now leading the NBA with a 17.5 rebounds per game, broke the Reunion Arena mark of 27 set by the Mavericks' James Donaldson on Dec. 29, 1989 against Portland. 
Willis, with the highest single­game rebound total since the end of the 1987-88 season when Charles Oakley and Michael Cage both had more than 30, now has 20 or more rebounds in seven of his last nine games. 
Dallas, trailing by 10 with less than two minutes left, had the ball with a 101-99 deficit, but Herb Williams missed from 10 feet with 9.8 seconds left, and Willis hit a pair of free throws to seal the 103-99 victory. 
Bucks 126, Lakers 94 MILWAUKEE (AP) -Jeff Grayer scored 21 points and 
Milwaukee opened a 20-point lead in the first half before beating road-weary Los Angeles. 
The Lakers, playing their fifth game in eight days on a seven­stop trip, got 24 points from 
A.C. Green and 20 from James Worthy. The loss, only their second in 12 games, was the most lopsided this season for Los Angeles. 
When the Bucks outscored the Lakers 12-5 to start the second half, the Bucks had a 74-50 lead with seven minutes to go in the third quarter. 

Nuggets 110, Rockets 100 
HOUSTON (AP) -Chris Jackson scored 16 of his 22 points in the pivotal fourth quarter as Denver snapped a 25-game road losing by defeat­ing Houston. 
The Nuggets, whose last road victory was 126-122 at Milwaukee on Jan. 29, also handed the Rockets their first loss at home in eight games this season. Denver is now 1-5 on the road and 8-8 overall after going 20-62 in 1990-91. 
Houston, playing without centers Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Smith because of illness and injury, was led by Kenny Smith and Vernon Maxwell with 20 points each. Otis Thorpe had 17 points and 15 rebounds. 
Reggie Williams led the Nuggets with 26 points. 
Houston tied the score 92-92 with 5:04 remaining after scor­ing six straight points. But Denver responded with an 8-0 run, six by Jackson, to lead 100-92 at the 3:08 mark. 
NOTICE TO DECEMBER GRADUATES 

Have you borrowed $$$ to finance your Notre Dame education? If yes, you must follow these instructions. 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations REQUIRE all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan P.rogr~m and the s.u~plem~ntal ~an f~r Students (SLS) to attend an EXIT INTERVIEW before leaving the Umverstt~. The extt mtervtew will revtew your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s) deferment opt10ns, and loan consolidation benefits. ' 
For your convenience, we have scheduled 4 exit interview· sessions: 
Thursday, December 5th LaFortune 3:00-3:30 pm 
Montgomery Theater 3:45-4:15 pm 
Main Floor 4:30-5:00 pm 

5:15-6:00 pm To pre~are fo~ the exit interview, bring the name of your Iender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS horr?wm~ wh1~e at Notre Dame. Ifyou need assistance gathering this information, contact the Notre Dame Office of Fmanctal Aid. Please allow one day for processing. 
Sports 



Sale Books 

Man 
continued from page 16 
held without a single offensive rebound, and the team as a whole was limited to just eight offensive boards. 
"Overall, I thought we played very well defensively," Knight said. "We were a little shaky on offense. Notre Dame played some tough defense, and it was difficult to move." 
"I think we gave it a good effort," sadi Ellis. "However, it was not enough to derail the Hoosiers." 
The only thing the Irish need is time. After years of playing zone under Digger Phelps, the seniors are almost starting from scratch with a new de­fense, and the freshman class also needs some time to get a handle on the system before the real jelling occurs. 
All it will take is work and experience, things that cannot be rushed, and MacLeod has made a commitment to it. 
"I want it to happen right away, but I know it won't," MacLeod said. "It's going to take time, and its going to be painful." 
If anything positive came out of this game for the Irish, it may be the realization of just how painful the adjustment is going to be. 
Save the Earth Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 
Services always available 
Special Orders Telephone Orders Discounted Best Sellers Xmas Gilt Wrapping Book Mailing Service Gift Certificates 
25% off Selected Books 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


2nd floor 

... 



r----------:p~ag~e~14~--------------------------------~--------~-T_h_e_O_b_s_e~N_e_r______~~~~~~----~~----W~e_dn_e~s~d~ay~·~D~e~c~e_m~b~er4~·-1_9_9_1 
Anderson, Butler to sit on Sunday McCallum stripped of WBA title 
"If I didn't have any pride and didn't care about this football team, I wouldn't say a word," Ditka said. "The moment I don't say a word is the moment I'll do something else. This is a good team. Not great, but good. Their pride is hurt and they're wounded." 
Ditka said the films showed Anderson was not running well and "not using his tools. He's too great a player not to use his tools." 
But he wasn't blaming Anderson or Butler, who missed a field goal, for the loss to Detroit. 
"We hurt ourselves with mis­takes," said Ditka. "That was evident. Even with all the turnovers, we still had oppor­tunities to win." 
Anderson, who has been playing injured, agreed he needs rest. 
"It's sore; I can't run," Anderson said. ''I'm not. going to play. We all made the deci­sion. If I continue to aggravate it, I won't be ready for the playoffs. Right now we're shooting for me to be ready for the stretch and the playoffs. I don't want to do anything fool­ish. Whether it heals or not, I don't know." 
Anderson said it would be a week-to-week situation and he might have to sit out two weeks, which would mean he possibly could also miss the Tampa Bay game Dec. 14. 
"We want to get the leg as good as possible. We've looked at the films and the burst of speed isn't there." 
Anderson, who has rushed for at least 1,000 yards in each of the last three seasons, doesn't figure to reach that number this year. He has gained 734 yards in 202 car­ries. He also has failed to gain 100 yards in any game. The closest he came was 91 yards at Minnesota on Nov. 11. 
Butler said he would try kicking again in Friday's prac­tice. 

PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP) 
The World Boxing Association vacated the mid­dleweight title held by Mike McCallum of Jamaica because the fighter had violated associ­ation rules, the organization said Tuesday. 
The WBA called on the two top challengers, Steve Collins of Great Britain and American Reggie Johnson to fight for the title. The two have 30 days to arrange a bout. 
"We felt obligated to take this measure because of McCallum's 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing every day except Saturday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your legal name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•Sugar 
Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday, Nov. 21 through Dec. 4, from 8:30 to 5. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student may present 4 ID's. All tickets will be issued at the ticket office on the 2nd floor of the ACC upon payment. 

•Students 
and staff interested in having an indoor climbing wall or;~ campus should come to a brief meetin~ on Thursday night at 6:00 p.m. in Rockne 218. It is important that groups and individuals wanting a wall be represented at this information meeting since the amount of interest is being assessed. Questions, call RecSports at 239-6690 and ask for Sally. 

•Attention 
all rowing club members: A brief and informative meeting will be scheduled for this Thursday. Year end activities will be discussed and sweats/stevensens orders will be confirmed. Orders will be processed on Friday. Erg-a-thon money should be brought to the meeting or given to Heidi in room 318 Farley. Reminder, that individual clothing orders will not be processed if erg donations are not in by Friday. 


COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t;.ffX{4/V71l!V'JJ $MCJ011$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully located on the St. Joseph River ~ 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-
1671 Riverside Drive ­
233-2212 



SCUBA COZUMEL 
SPRING BREAK 
MAROI 7-14, 1992 DIVER & NON-DIVER PACKAGE INCLUDES: AIRFARE, LODGING 2 TANK DIVES DAILY UNliMITED OFFSHORE DIVING TRANSFERS DAILY DIVER $995.00 ; NONDIVER $795.00 
WHAT A BEftER WAY TO SPEND SPRING BREAK! 
INFORMATION MEETING AND MOVIES, SNACKS ROOM 218 ROCKNE 1:00PM DECEMBER 7 CAll KATHY 277-0058 FOR MORE INFO 
JR Aquatic center 51333 U.S. 31-33 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
violations of organization rules," Elias Cordova, president of the WBA's World Championship Committee, told a news conference. 
Cordova said McCallum had been told he must fight Collins this month for the title before he fought any other match. However, Cordova said McCallum has agreed to fight American James Toney, the IBF middleweight champion on Dec. 13., which Cordova called "a clear violation of the rules." 
He said McCallum was told Monday of the decision and had no immediate reply. 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Beware the wounded Bear. 
That was Mike Ditka's cry on Monday after his Chicago Bears lost consecutive games that the coach figures they shouldn't have. 
"There are certain games you can lose and people expect you to lose and maybe you get beat by a better team:" Ditka said. "I don't believe that was the case the last two weeks. We beat ourselves." 
Ditka was up in arms over Thursday's 16-6 loss at Detroit and he really hadn't settled down. 
He said he wouldn't "celebrate Thanksgiving again and I'll never eat turkey again." Four days earlier, Chicago blew a 10-point lead in the fourth quarter and lost to Miami 16-13 in overtime. 
Ditka promised to make some changes, most particularly a return of the running game to the attack. 
Running back Neal Anderson 
, 
\'. 
·lJ­
•.·...·..····.··· 
.• 
AP Photo 
and kicker Kevin Butler will sit out Sunday's game against the Green Bay Packers. Anderson has been hampered by a ham­string pull and Butler has a hip injury. 
Mark Green and Johnny Bailey will share Anderson's running chores and Chris Gardocki will do the kicking. He also hopes fullback Brad Muster will be ready to play. Muster also has a hamstring pull and was unable to play against Detroit. 
"If Brad can't play, I'll use Darren Lewis," Ditka said. "We're going to run the ball. It might not be as glamorous as throwing the ball but there is less risk." 
Quarterback Jim Harbaugh was guilty of six turnovers against Detroit, including four interceptions. 
"My pride is hurt tremen­dously," Ditka said of the suc­cessive losses that dropped the Bears to 9-4 and tied with Detroit for first in the NFC Central. 


Notes 
continued from page 16 
son, is presented weekly to a player from each of the partici­pating teams during ESPN's "Prime Time" college football game of the week. ·· 
Players are chosen by a panel of athletic and academic repre­sentatives from each school, with choices based on a player's contribution to the team, academic achievements and community sorvice. 
Knapp is a senior economics major with a 3.2 grade point average. He has been nomi­nated for post-graduate schol­arships from the National Football Foundation and the NCAA. 
Fellow senior offensive line­man Gene McGuire left the field during the second quarter with a knee injury. Despite the pained reaction, all indications show that McGuire only suf­fered a strained left knee. 
Senior Troy Ridgely struggled to come to grips with the dis­appearing act performed by the Notre Dame defense. 
"We've been meeting and we've been doing everything we can as a defensive unit to try and straighten things out," said Ridgely. "There's some­thing wrong and I don't know what it is." 
"We keep playing poorly. I think we have the athletes there, but I don't know why the defense is not playing." 
The Bears' Kevin Butler, shown here versus Denver in 1990, will miss this Sunday's game against the Green Bay Packers due to a leg injury. 
SINCE 1949 
Grat Brandl, Grat Slrvlcl, Great Prices, Rlntlll 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur 11~7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 
220 W Marion Sat 10-4 pm ~39 S M1chigan 
SPECIAUSTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRSI 
IT'S BACK ''• • 

TUDENT WORLD PREMIERES 
THE BEST IN STUDENT FILM/VIDEO FROM NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
THURSDAY DEC. 5 7:00 & 9:00 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
ADMISSION $2 




.. 

Wednesday, December 4, 1991 
The Observer page 15 TrHE_F_A_R_si_DE_________G_A_RY_L_AR_s_ON rS_PE_L_UN_K_ER_____________:J~AY:_:_H.:_:::O.:::_:SL:_:::ER_:____, CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l(l()l(, r C/1-N 
M"-K£ S\-\"tx:l~S 
ON 11\t. Wt>..U. f.\E.RE'S f.. \XJG 
-
The class abruptly stopped practicing. Here was an opportunity to not only employ their skills, but also to save the entire town. 
CROSSWORD 
COUNSELOR'S CORNER 

Dear Counselor, DOWN I am having a problem with one of my good friends. I met this person freshman year as we were passing each other
1 Bathroom 

2 Margarine through the dorm hallway. Since then we have become very 
3 Prejudice close friends, although sometimes I think we are a little too 
4 Do post office 

close. Since we have been back in school my friend seems to
work 

want to spend a lot more time than usual with me. My friend
5 Japanese drama 

6 Cadets of Colorado seems to only want to spend time with me, and has also been Springs hinting and making "passes" at me. How can I tell my friend 
7 Certain leader, 

that I am not interested in this type of relationship and yet
for short 

remain a good friend? Please help. 
8 Sweet­

9 Word in JFK phrase 10 " ... it's -know" Friendly Senior 11 Table d'­12 River to the Elbe 
13 Colloids Dear Friendly, 18 End-of-letter I remember walking into my dorm room and meeting Mike word from Chicago. He said "Howdy" with a drawl that placed him 
19 Like a steeplechase 

considerably south of the Mason-Dixon. I wondered what we 
course 

23 Gherkin kin would ever have in common, and struggled to foresee the 
24 Scandinavian wonderful friendship which would soon emerge.
capital 

Friendships are a good thing. In the eye of the storm of ro­
25 Song or songstress 

mantic negotiations, a good friend offers safe harbor. The
26 Broadway musical 

27 Registered -mixing of romance and friendship, though, is fraught with 28 Wrath complex and even potentially powerful interpersonal issues. 
29 Defied 

You care for your friend, but fear you may not share identical 
30 Language 

definitions of that word "care." It sounds like you are wanting
pecu1.1 ari ty 

31 College In New York ~ to tread carefully, distinguishing your desires for the friend­32 German port ship while not losing your friend's care. 37 Like most colleges It's at these touchy moments, when hurt feelings are at risk,
38 "Woe is me!" 

that the truth, spoken in love, seems so reasonable. You said
39 Despite, for short

ACROSS 
37 Monte -41 "West Side Story" it nicely on paper, that you like being a friend but don't want 
Pos 1tl ons 
39 Even character to be romantic. The worst-case scenario is that your friend 
5 Letter on a key 
40 Dl ned 42 Frost's "! Gave 

experiences embarrassment and it takes some time for the
10 Tory opponent 41 Mr. Porter 
Them a-"

14 Mishmash friendship to stabilize. But a good friendship is worth the car­
42 Glistened 44 With humor 

15 Buenos -43 1958 Elvis hit 45 The fourth -ing effort of clarifying feelings and wishes. Good luck. 
16 Socks 
(2 wds.) 46 Like some lines 

17 1956 Elvis hit 47 Disencumbers 49 Switch positions
(2 wds.) 48 "Barney Miller" 50 Debauchee MENU 
20 Questionable actor, Jack -51 Hollyremedies 49 Celestial hunter 52 Pequod's skipper Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
21 Lookers 52 Draws 
53-code 

Chicken Fried Steak Philly Sandwich 
22 Luau music-maker 57 1962 Elvis hit 54 Prison part
23 Dumbbell (3 wds.) Spaghetti & Meatballs Bean Burritos 
55 Domesticate

25 1963 Elvis hit 60 Car gauge Cheese Enchiladas Batter Fried Fish 
56 Component of L.A. 

(3 wds.) 61 Fit to be tied 
air Baked New Zealand Deli Bar 
33 -tower 62 1985 fi1m, 
58 Hairpiece Whiting w/Herbs 
34 Cohort "St. -'s Fire" 59 Prefix for cycle
35 Headlight setting 63 Having oomph36 Evening, In news-64 Taunted p~pers 65 "Break -!" 

' . 







-Sports 
page 16 

Wednesday, December 4, 1991 
Irish overwhelmed by ninth-ranked Hoosiers 

IU wins battle of ND falls to 0-2 after 78-46 road loss man-to-man D's By DAVE MCMAHON 
2 run to end the first half. "We were a little shaky early 
Associate Sports Editor 
By RICH KURZ on offense," said Knight, who Associate Sports Editor BLOOMINGTON-Indiana's 
coached the Hoosiers to their eighth straight win at Assembly
intense man-to-man defense 
Hall over Notre Dame. "But we
BLOOMINGTON-When forced Notre Dame into 22 had a good burst toward the
Coach John MacLeod started turnovers last night as Bobby practice this season, he wanted Knight's ninth-ranked Hoosiers 
.end of the half." to make two major changes. kept Notre Dame's John Elmer Bennett (1-of-7 from 
the floor) scored 12 of his 14
The first was an up-tempo of­MacLeod winless in two tries. 
fense. The second was a switch Notre Dame's woes began points in the second half. 
from a zone to a man-to-man early on game day. When se­
Indiana used its dominance to take a 76-39 lead at the 7:05
defense. nior center Keith Tower and mark of the second half. 
Last night, against the freshman forward Billy Taylor Indiana Hoosiers, the Irish got were late for the scheduled de­
Forward Calbert Cheaney led a hard lesson from the masters parture of the team bus, and the Hoosiers with 19 points, but -of the man-to-man defense. MacLeod opted for Malik 
the play of the Indiana guards was equally threatening. Greg
Indiana coach Bob Knight's Russell and Joe Ross to start trademark defense gave Notre the contest. 
Graham hit 4-of-7 from the Dame fits. Every ballhandler The two combined for five re­
field for 8 of his 14 points. Damion Bailey poured in 11 in
was pressured, every pass was bounds and were held score­contested, and it paid off for IU. less. 
his role as the sixth man. Eric Anderson, who has
The Irish committed 22 But they weren't the only two started the previous 37 games,
turnovers. to suffer from poor shooting for eased his way out of Knight's
"We've got some quickness. the Irish. Notre Dame, unable and we use it to pressure," to overcome Indiana's pesky 
doghouse with 14 points on 7­of-1 0 shooting off the bench.
Knight said. defense, shot .367 (18 for 49). This quickness showed in the "I pick Indiana to win the 
"We still have a long way to final totals. Indiana guards NBA Championship this year," go," said MacLeod. "We had 
some defensive stretches where
Greg Graham and Chris said MacLeod. "They took us 
Reynolds combined for six of out of most of the things we we played well, but we didn't their team's 10 steals. tried to do." · 
support it with any offense." Notre Dame out-rebounded
"Defensively, they did a Indiana took advantage of 2­Indiana 39-35, but for the sec­tremendous job on us," of-12 shooting by the Irish to 
ond straight game failed to
MacLeod said of the Hoosier open the first half and opened guards. "They're strong and up a 19-5 lead. 
convert on many open shots. "We need to buckle down on
physical. and they really Following two dunks by Ellis, defense and we have to start
worked hard and supported (15 points, 13 rebounds) the 
knocking down the wide open
each other." Irish cut the lead to 27-19 with Indiana's inside people did 3:09 in the first half. 
shots that we've been missing." their share of damage too. Irish Then Indiana's defense took 
The Irish will try to bounce back when they host Louisville
forward LaPhonso Ellis was control, which allowed its of­
on Thursday at the Joyce
fense to eliminate any chance 
see MAN/page 13 Center at 8 p.m. 
of an Irish comeback with a 13­

Bettis breaks Notre Dame touchdown record 
By DAVE DIETEMAN which the Irish surrendered to touchdowns, surpassing the all­season, well short of the Notre yards in 1964) with his perfor­
Sports Editor the Rainbows were the most time record of 55 (1912) and Dame single-season record of mance against the Rainbows. ever allowed by a Notre Dame the modern-era record of 53 10, set by Mike Townsend in Where pass attempts are team in a winning effort. (1949). 1972. concerned, Mirer (234) is 
HONOLULU-Despite its un­But the Irish, who victimized Jerome Bettis broke the Notre Rick Mirer's 218 passing fourth on the all-time single­spectacular performance the Hawaii defense for seven Dame all-time record for yards against Hawaii give him season list. He trails Joe against Hawaii, Notre Dame touchdowns, also smashed two touchdowns in a season (both 2,117 in his career-good Theismann (268 in 1970), Joe managed to set several records team scoring records. On the rushing and receiving). With his enough for third on the Notre Montana (260 in 1978) and on Saturday. season, Notre Dame's high­two rushing scores against Dame all-time list for a season. Steve Beuerlein (259 in 1986). 
For starters, the 42 points powered offense has scored 59 Hawaii, Bettis has 16 touch­Mirer trails Steve Beuerlein Mirer has averaged 19.5 pass downs on the ground and four (151-259 for 2,211 yards in attempts per game this season. in the air, for a total of 20. 1986). who is now with the ••• 
The record of 18 touchdowns Dallas Cowboys, and Joe Lindsey Knapp, a 6-6, 271 lb.
Page, Lynch win awards 

in a season, which Bettis tied Theismann (155-268 for 2,429 offensive tackle from Deerfield, Special to the Observer with post-secondary 
Nov. 16 against Penn State, was yards in 1970), whose profes­Ill., was named a recipient of opportunities and is active in 
previously held by Allen sional football career was the Toyota Leadership Award Two University of Notre numerous civic and charitable 
Pinkett, who accomplished the ended by a leg injury. during the Hawaii game. Dame alumni are among six organizations in 
feat in 1983 and '84. Mirer surpassed 1964 The award, in its seventh sea-former student-athletes se­Minneapolis/St. Paul. 
Tom Carter, a sophomore, has Heisman trophy winner John lected by the National After receiving his 
intercepted five passes this Huarte (114-205 for 2,062 see NOTES/ page 14 Collegiate Athletic Association bachelor's degree from Notre as 1992 Silver Anniversary Dame in 1967, Page went on 
Irish, Rainbows
Award winners. to a 15-year career with the Alan Page and Jim Lynch, NFL's Minnesota Vikings and teammates at Notre Dame Chicago Bears, earning the 
may meet again 
from 1964-66 and All­league's most valuable player 
Americans on the 1966 award in 1971. He was 
HONOLULU (AP) ~ Notre
national championship inducted into the Pro Football 
Dame and Hawaii are
football team, will be honored Hall of Fame in 1988. 
negotiating to plti.y again in
on January 8 at the NCAA Lynch won the Maxwell 
Hawaii within the next five
convention in Anaheim, Calif., A"Yard in 1966 as college foot­
years.
along with football players ball's outstanding player. He 
Floyd Little of Syracuse was also an Academic All­
Notre Dame offletals ap­
University and Bob Griese of American and a National 
proached Hawaii officials at
Purdue University, basketball Football Foundation and Hall 
Saturday's game to say they
player Mal Graham of New of Fame scholar-athlete. Now 
were interested because
York University and track and vice-president of D. Thomas & 
their players and fans had
field athlete Ricardo Urbina of Associates, a food brokerage 
such a good time during the
Georgetown University. house in Kansas City, Mo., he trip,
The Silver Anniversary is involved in a variety of 
Tlle l8tl1·ranked Irish
Award recognizes former community activities, 
won the game 48·42. and
student-athletes who have including the March of Dimes 
about 6,000 Notre Dame
distinguished themselves and Special Olympics. 
fans from across tlv~
since completing their college Lynch played 11 years of 
country traveled to Hawatl
athletic careers 25 years ago. professional football with the 
to attend the game.
Page, a three-year starting Kansas City Chiefs, helping defensive lineman at Notre them to a win over the 
Hawaii athletic director
Dame, is the assistant Vikings and Page in Super 
Stan Sh(rriff says the
attorney general of Bowl IV in 1970. He is a 
Rainbows won't have to
Minnesota. He has established member of the Chiefs' hall of 
pl~y Notre Dame ~~ South
the Pag~ Educational fame and was a 1969· 
Beng, lnd,. as part of the 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey
Foundation to assist minority American Football League all­
deal.··· ···· 

Irish quarterback Rick Mirer, shown here Saturday in Honolulu, moved
and disadvantaged youths star. 

into third place on Notre Dame's all-time passing yardage list. 
.. ;ij ····. 











