
-~~-----------------------~ ~~ 

Allied forces commence ground offensive 
DHAHHAN, Saudi Arabia ing, they're resisting,'' a Marine (AP) -American and allied colonel said at one point. And troops stormed Kuwait by land, American military sources cau­sea and air early Sunday and tioned that days of hard fight­wrested pieces of the emirate ing could lie ahead -particu­from Iraqi forces. By day's end, larly if allied forces grapple 
U.S. paratroopers and Marines with the Iraqi army's elite Re­were reported on the doorstep publican Guard. of Kuwait City. American commanders, 
The huge Desert Storm of­nonetheless, could barely re­fensive, striking along a 300-strain their euphoria. mile front, also swept up into The Iraqis have proven to be southern Iraq in the largest "remarkably inept," said one American-led Invasion since senior military source. World War II. Schwarzkopf hailed the first 
Allied casualties were day as a "dramatic success," "remarkably light," said overall and military planners said the commander Gen. II. Norman early gains led him to put his Schwarzkopf, who gave no fig­troops on an "accelerated ures for U.S. dead and schedule." wounded. Asked by a reporter whether 
By early Monday, more than the allies might be skirting 10,000 Iraqis had been taken Iraqi positions to hold down prisoner, a senior U.S. military casualties, the Army general source said. No Information shot back, "We're going to go was available on Iraqi casual­around, over, through, on top, ties. underneath and any other 
Led by hundreds of tanks, the way." troops from 11 nations raced Hours after the invasion across the desert battlefield, at jumped ofT about 4 a.m. Sunday times under pounding rain. Air­(8 p.m. EST Saturday) and craft screamed In low, attack­Baghdad came under renewed Ing through greasy black air bombardment, Saddam smoke from 200 oilfield fires. Hussein went on official Iraqi Hundreds of assault helicopters radio to urge his troops on. streamed into Iraq carrying "Fight them and show no American airborne troops. mercy," the Iraqi president 
One column of Saudi and said. 
Kuwaiti troops that punched 20 Iraqi military communiques 
miles Into Kuwait was "moving later asserted that the olTensive 
like a knife through butter," "has so far failed utterly," and 
Associated Press photographer claimed to have "wiped out" 
Laurent Rebours reported from paratroopers dropped behind 
the front. Iraqi lines in western Kuwait. 
Some defenders tried to hold Iraq struck Israel early Mon­their positions. "They're fillht-day with its 38th Scud attack 
O'Hara, ND officials discuss financial aid 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Financial aid at Notre Dame was the topie of the first meet­ing set up by Patricia O'Hara, viet' president for Student Af­fairs. to discuss issues relating to Hhnic Ameriran students. 
Two weeks ago University l'rc~sidenl Father Edward Mal­loy and O'Hara asked the members of the Student Gov­nrnment report committee, "The Challenge of Diversity." to function as a representative group for a series of discus­sions with University adminis­trators about issues raised in the report. 
The discussions will take place during the rest of the spring semester and will be completed before the end of the academic year, said O'llara. 
At a Sunday meeting the stu­dents listened to Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University, and Joe Husso, director of Fi­naneial Aid. explain about the Univnrsity's aid system. 
The students were able to voice concerns and ask ques­tions of Beauchamp, Russo, Thomas Mason, vice president for Business Affairs, and Jim l.yphout, associate vice presi­dent for Business Affairs. 
Students at the meeting in­cludnd the following: Gina Ma­hony, report chairperson, Fred Tombar, student body vice president. Michael Bailey, Eliz­abeth Bird, Azikiwe Chandler, Manuel Espino, Leroy Mcin­tosh, Lynn Ramsay, 1-Iao Tran, Natasha Wilson. Theresa Vithayathil, Yolanda Knight and Yolanda Lawler. 
"We don't have the amount of money for financial aid that we want to," said Beauchamp. He added that financial aid is a big priority for the school. 
The group agreed that two issues would be examined by officials present: 
•That 
a liaison between the Office of Student Accounts and the Office of Financial Aid be established to avoid uncom­fortable situations for students going through difficult financial times. 

Students shared experiences of not being able to register for classes and other negative ex­periences they have had when their accounts were outstand­ing due to financial problems. 

•That 
the fee allotted by the Office of Financial aid for inci­dental costs (social/personal expenditures, entertainment, etc.) when figuring costs of at­tendance at Notre Dame be in­creased. (That figure is ap­


see O'HARA I pageS 

OPERATION 
DESERT STORM 
• 
Arabs react I page 6 

• 
Home front I page 6 

• 
Free Iraq Radio I page 7 

• 
Soviets reaction I page 7 


on the Jewish state and the first since the ground offensive began. Israel said the missile landed harmlessly In an unset­tled area of southern Israel. 
President Bush, in a television address late Saturday in Wash­ington, announced he had ordered the ground attack in the "right and just" cause of freeing Kuwait from Iraqi oc­cupation. Bush adviser Brent Scowcroft spoke of a further objective Sunday: eliminating Iraq's offensive military power. 
The long-expected ground as­sault came just eight hours after a deadline set by the Desert Storm allies for Iraq to begin a pullout from Kuwait. 
The Iraqis had dismissed that ultimatum as "shameful." The 
Sophomores make 



GULF WAR ROUNDUP 
Sunday, Feb. 24 
The huge Desert Storm offensive extended along a 300-mile front, at times under pounding rain and through greasy black smoke from 200 oilfield fires. 
It also swept up into southern Iraq in the largest American-led invasion since World War II. 
SYRIA ./
..,.,.....· 
.~:_r' 

rBaghdad
ISRAEL ---{(/ ....• .· ~~~., •.··(-" -. JORDAN 

SAUDI ARABIA

')'

V' ~ War developments: 
• • More than 300 attack helicopters blasted deep into Iraq. Officers called it the largest helicopter assault in military history. ·~ • Two columns from the U.S. 2nd Marine Division pushed ' 


35 miles north from the frontier putting them in near-linkup with airborne troops. 
• 
By day's end, U.S. paratroopers were reported holding outer edges of Kuwait City. 

• 
Allied casualties were "remarkably light," and 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken by late afternoon, said Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf. 


\s of 7p.m. EST 
Bush administration at the same time rejected a Soviet­sponsored plan for a slower­paced withdrawal. 
music 
0 '· 
IRAQ '1. 
KUWAIT 
";_ 
Kuwait City 


A Soviet spokesman com­plained Sunday that a "very real chance" at a negotiated peace had been missed. 
1he Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Saint Mary's College sophomore Catherine Funston plays the flute Saturday for Sophomore Parents' Weekend at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto at Saint Mary's. 
Raids on local bars result in 91 citations 


By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
A raid on two area bars early Saturday morning resulted 91 citations for underage drinking, according to the St. Joseph's County Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (SUDS) Task Force. 
Officers from South Bend Police Dept., St. Joseph County Police, Indiana State Police, and Indiana State Excise responded to information about underage drinking at Club 23, located at 7 44 N. Notre Dame Ave., about 1 a.m. Saturday. Fourteen minors were arrested for minor in tavern charges. 

Police then responded to a call of a fight at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, lo­cated at 1025 South Bend Ave., at approximately 2 a.m. During that investigation, task force officers discovered underage patrons inside the bar. 
The raid on Bridget's resulted in 77 arrests for minor in tav­ern. 
No further details were avail­able at press time. 
Underage drinking arrests are generally handled by issu­ing citations, similar to traffic tickets, to those violators who have identification at the time of arrest, according to Lt. Norval Williams, South Bend Police. The violation is then handled at a later court date. 
If minors do not have proper identification, they are taken into custody until they can prove their identity, he said. 

Monday, February 25, 1991
page 2 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Posters, papers are a real waste 
Over the weekend, I had------­a most profound thought. 
Like most of my profound thoughts, this one came to me while I was in the bathroom. 
As I stood in the bath­room, I noticed the in­


credible amount of reading John O'Brien material that graces the Managing Editor wall space above the urinals. 
Colorful, informative and interesting flyers for the seemingly millions of candidates for class office help distract the patrons of the lavatory from the business at hand. 
However, these flyers also serve another purpose. THEY KILL LOTS OF TREES. These flyers, in addition to being eyesores, are also an incredible waste of paper. 
I understand that for a candidate to win, he or she must publicize his or her candidacy. But the reams of wasted paper that will result 
TODAY AT AGLANCE
from all of this month's elections show one 

thing: This campaigning has gotten out of hand. 
WORLD NATIONAL 
I would encourage Joseph Blanco and David 
Coup leaders promise elections soon Skydiver falls to death during jump attempt 
Florenzo to work with the Office of Student Activities to establish new rules regarding the 
•DELAND, Fla. -A skydiver fell to his death Sunday number and placement of campaign posters 
•BANGKOK, Thailand-Military 
commanders who easily toppled the when he was knocked unconscious during an attempt to as well as all posted announcements. 
link a world record 153 skydivers in a single jump, First, a rule limiting placement of an­
government of Prime Minister. 
organizers and witnesses said. The 27 -year-old Tampa nouncements to specific, designated bulletin 
Chatichai Choonhavan said Sunday 
man fell about 16,000 feet and landed in a pasture north boards should be enacted. This would limit 
they want to return the country to 
of Deland Municipal Airport about 2:30 p.m., said police the space for posters and thus, limit the 
democracy and hold elections in six 
Sgt. Tim Mattingly. The skydiver, whose name was not number of posters. 
months. Speaking a day after they took 
immediately released, was among skydivers from Second, Student Government should limit 
Chatichai captive and imposed martial 
law, the leaders also said they would Europe, Canada and the United States trying to break the the number of posters a candidate would use. 
amend the constitution to prevent the corruption they record of 144 jumpers who linked in Illinois in 1988. This would also cut down on the amount of 
said had motivated their apparently bloodless coup. "It is wasted paper and might even result in some 
our intention that both amending the constitution and original uses for campaign funds. 
holding the general election be done in six months," said CAMPUSThese recommendations might not solve the 
Army Chief Gen. Suchinda Krapayoon, one of the five top 
Golden Ticket winners announced 
problems of wasted paper, but they would 
officers behind the rebellion on Saturday. But he told a certainly cut down on the volume of paper 
•NOTRE DAME, Ind.-Winners in THE BAR contest, that we waste. The only way to totally 
news conference that the junta had not decided if it 
would continue to hold power before the elections or sponsored by An Tostal, were announced Thursday night. eliminate our problems is obvious: recycle. 
appoint a caretaker government in the country, where All GOLDEN TICKET winners received one of THE SHIRT Of course, that has problems of its own. 
the military has long acted as a key power broker. T-shirts and were eligible to win additional prizes. First, recycling of office paper is very dif­
Colleen Ebner (Saint Mary's) won the VCR; Ann Cook ferent from recycling of newsprint, so Recy­
(Notre Dame) will receive 12 pizzas from Barnaby's; clin' Irish would require increased support, 
Anh-Tuan Truong (Notre Dame) won a $50 gift certificate resources and funds. 
to the bookstore; and Sarah Johnson (Saint Mary's) won Second, the Recyclin' Irish program is far 
$100. from perfect as it is. 
For instance, I spoke to the director of the program before Christmas about placing a recycling bin in The Observer office. The 
OF INTEREST
Observer disposes of large amounts of newspapers every day, and to not recycle it is •ott -campus students can vote in today's class •Male seniors are invited to share in the life and work tantamount to sin. 
elections at the Information Desk in LaFortune. of the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers in East Africa as aDespite dozens of notes and phone messages Lay Associate. Information and applications are availablesince mid-January, I haven't heard word one at the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Mary Annfrom anyone from Recyclin' Irish about 
•Introduction to Resume Expert will be held this Roemer (239-7949) soon. A position will be open, starting placing a bin in our office. What's wrong in August. 
afternoon in the Career and Placement Services Confer­
here? 

ence Room from 3:30p.m. to 4:30p.m. The workshop will 
I know that a column is not the best forum cover how to use the program and other uses of the Re­•General manager applications for the Studentfor contacting Recyclin' Irish, but I've ex­sume Expert system. Business Board are due Friday. They may be picked up in hausted every other avenue. So I ask anyone the Student Government office on the second floor offrom Recyclin' Irish to call me at 239-5303 LaFortune.
•The Holy Cross Associates program is currently our office. 
and tell me what I need to do to get a bin in 
accepting applications for the 1991-92 HCA year. Please Everyday that we wait, we waste more 
contact Mary Ann White (239-5521) in the HCA office, or •Theatre Grottesco, a professional theatre company paper. We need to stop this waste and we need 
Mary Ann Roemer (239-7949) in the Center for Social from Detroit, begins a week-long residency today at 4:15 to do it soon. If you can help, call me. Time is 
Concerns for more information. p.m. in Washington Hall with a free lecture and demon­running out. 
stration of their unique theatrical style. 
Today's Staff: Production 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Ann Buff 
News 

Jacquie Calhoun Photography Paul Pearson 
R. Garr Schwartz 

• In 1570: Pope Pius V excommunicated England's Queen
Ann Marie Hartman 
Systems 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 22, 1991 
Elizabeth I.

Amalia Meier Business Accent 
• In 1793: The various department heads of the U.S. gov­
Fritz Valsaint Colleen Gannon 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX A
Michael Whitman 

ernment met with President Washington at his home for the first
Denisse M-Landais 

218.76 Million 199.65 "!:if' 0.38
Shonda Wilson 
VIewpoint 

Cabinet meeting on record.

S&P COMPOSITE A
Meredith McCullough "The Daver" Certo Circulation 

• In 1913: The 16th Amendment to the United States
432.57 1T' 1.06 Sports 
Jay Colucci Bill O'Rourke 
Constitution, giving Congress the power to levy and collect in·
Matt Novak 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

come taxes, was declared in effect.
Rene Ferran 
Graphics 

2,889.36 ~ 2.47
Michael F. Muldoon 
• In 1986: President Ferdinand Marcos fled the Philippines
Scoreboard 
Jake Frost 

after 20 years of rule in the wake of a tainted election; Corazon
PRECIOUS METALS
Mark McGrath 

Aquino assumed the presidency. GOLD .f $5.70 to$ 357.00oz. 
• One year ago: Nicaraguans went to the polls in an elec­
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday 
tion that resulted in an upset victory for the alliance opposed to
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER • 12.9¢ to$ 3.508/oz. Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
the ruling Sandinistas. rights are reserved. 

-

~------------·~~---------­
The Observer

Monday, February 25, 1991 page 3 

Christmas in April program expects 3,000 volunteers 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be among thou­sands of community volunteers donating time and effort to re­pair the homes of a South Bend neighborhood through the Christmas in April program. 
The program, coordinated by Phil Johnson, assistant director of ND Security, and Notre Dame students Lora Mangan. Isabel Navarrete, and Bob Scheibel, will take place on April13. 
Students can sign up in their dorms, at the Information Desk in LaFortune, or in the dining halls this week, according to 'Mangan. Students can register as groups by bracketing their names on the sign-up sheets. The deadline for sign-ups is Friday. 
It is expected that about 2,000 students from ND and Saint Mary's will help, in addition to approximately 1,000 community volunteers, includ­ing skilled laborers, said Mangan. 
The program, originally con­ceived in Midland, Texas, was developed in South Bend three years ago, primarily through the efforts of the Notre Dame community, said Johnson. 
"We've been very successful," he continued. This success over a relatively short period of time is evidenced by an award given by the state of Indiana to South Bend for the Christmas is April program. 
The goal of the program is "to improve the quality of life for a neighborhood," said Johnson. The volunteers will work an entire day to make substantive repairs to the houses and to the neighbor­hood, including re-roofing, plumbing, sheet-rocking, elec­trical wiring, and outdoor cleanup, he said. 
The efforts will result in safer, more habitable homes for the elderly, handi-capped, and financially needy in the neighborhood, said Johnson. This year, the work will focus on repairing about 50 houses in the area of St. Casimir-Ford Street. 
According to Johnson, the Christmas in April program de­pends heavily on the efforts of students, but also on the work of volunteer skilled workers from trade unions, and private and business financial contri­butions. Paintbrushes, paint, rakes, and a variety of other necessities will be donated by South Bend businesses. 
"This is a project that de­pends equally on all the people who give freely of their time," said Johnson. 
Last year's program provided $750,000 worth of repairs to 59 houses, as well as two churches and a community center, according to Johnson. 
"When you bring in 3,000 vol­unteers," he said, "it really makes an impact on the whole neighborhood." 

CLUB COLUMN 
FEBRUARY 4, 1991 
The Hawaiian Club will have elections on Thursday, Feb. 28, at 7 p.m. at the dance practice site. 
The Knights of Columbus will hold a general meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 26, at 7 p.m. The Ladies will hold a meeting upstairs. For more information call Joe at 239-7018 or Anthony at 283-3271. 
LULAC/HAO will be having elections for next year and a short general 
meeting Tuesday, Feb. 26, at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater. The Management Club will hold officer elections tonight at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healey. All members are expected to attend. 
AIAA, American Institute of Aeronautics will have a meeting at Rathskeller, Thursday, Feb. 28. Meet at the Main Circle at 6:45 p.m. for free transportation. Next year's president will be elected. Bring money for pizza. 
The Korean Club is having a Korean language class every Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. Anyone who is interested is welcome to attend. 
Students for Environmental Action will meet Sunday, March 3, at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Amy Jenista, 283-1343, for more information. 
Club column entries are to be turned in by 5 p.m. every Thursday at the Club Room tor publication the following Monday. 
The Club Room, 207 LaFortune, is available to campus clubs as a meeting room on a first come, first serve basis. For more information, call 283-2086 or stop by during the Club Coordination Council's office hours: Mondays 9:30-11 a.m. and 1:30-7 p.m., and Thursdays 1:30-8 p.m. 
, 

Border sign for museum 

. . ..• . . . . . . . . . . . .
.

-~·~-~-··~·~-···~·~-··~
~~~ 
'• • • • ... • i'e • i'e •• i'e i'• i'e i'e "• i'e ... 


ATTENTION STUDENTS--LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off Campus Sign-ups: February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. February 25 -March 1 at LaFortune information desk. On Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in respective dorms. 
"Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Casimir-Ford Street neighborhood 
This project needs your support! 
QUESTIONS??? Please call: 
Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheibel x1739 

------~------------­


page 4 
Unarmed combat 
An Israeli army instructor, left, tosses her opponent as soldiers watch during training for unarmed hand-to-hand combat. 

By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 

The YWCA Women's Shelter of St. Joseph County was the big winner at Pasquerilla East's annual Monte Carlo Night. 
Instead of buying souvenirs for those who attended the Monte Carlo Night SYR, one dollar from each ticket was given to the shelter to help the women who are housed there. A total of $250 was donated. 
Patricia Stanford, an SYR commissioner for the dorm, said "Most of the money (donated) will go towards food, clothing, linen, and toiletries." 
Stanford came up with the idea to donate the money to charity. She contacted the Cen­ter for Social Concerns to get a list of organizations to which the money could be donated. Stanford said she decided to donate the money to the women's shelter in honor the Year of Women. 
She said, "We are a women's dorm for a women's cause. We can take something that is a fun time for everyone and direct it towards a community." 
Stanford also said, "We really streamlined our budget." The amount of money spent on food stayed the same, but the D.J. gave them a discount rate and the sections were urged to be economical when decorating the halls. 
The women who live in the dorm thought this act of charity was a great idea. Pasquerilla East Co-President Gretchen Ariz said "I thought it really brought out P.E.'s dorm spirit. It showed how resourceful people were with decorations and we plan to make it as much of a tradition as Monte Carlo night itself." 
Kathleen Hitselberger, a Pas­querilla East resident, said "I thought it was more worthwhile to donate the money to a cause than to buy party favors." 

Sister Joris, the rectress of the dorm said she was glad to see that the residents of Pas­querilla East took the initiative to help those less fortunate. 
Pasquerilla East resident Maureen Daly said, "We should make it a P.E. tradition for other dorms to follow suit." 

Three firefighters die in Philadelphia skyscraper fire 
PHILADELBHIA (AP) -A high-rise inferno that burned for almost 19 hours was brought under control Sunday after killing three firefighters and gutting nine floors of a 38­story skyscraper across from City Hall. 
The 12-alarm blaze raged from 8:30 p.m. Saturday until 3 p.m., when it reached a floor with automatic sprinklers and firefighters were able to direct a stream of water into windows, 
Fire  Commissioner  Roger  
Ulshafer said.  
Hours  earlier,  fire  crews  

stopped fighting the blaze from 
The Observer 

Monday, February 25, 1991 


Pasquerilla East SYR raises $250 for women's shelter 
inside the building after engi­neers warned that the charred and soot-covered high rise could collapse. 
The city's main downtown in­tersection, the traffic circle where Philadelphia's two major arteries loop around City Hall, was closed. 
At least 12 firefighters were injured. Two were hospitalized in stable condition. 
The fire at One Meridian Plaza started on the 22nd floor and spread to the 30th floor, where sprinklers kicked in. The building was only partially equipped with sprinklers, with none on the 22nd through the 29th floors, Ulshafer said. 
The battle was complicated by failures in the building's electrical system, backup gen­erators and water pumping system, Ulshafer said. Elevators couldn't be used, so firefighters had to stretch six 5-inch hoses by hand to the 22nd floor, he said. 
"By the time we got them up there and got enough water, the fire was three floors above our beads," Ulshafer said. 
During the late morning, 

flames were visible from the 27th through the 29th floors as firefighters sprayed three jets of water from a nearby office tower. All or portions of the 22nd through the 30th floors were gutted. 
No adjoining buildings caught fire, Ulshafer said. 
Police kept a crowp of on­lookers more than a block away because windows occasionally popped from the intense heat, sending debris clattering more ~--"-'"'------"----v" than 250 feet to the street. ~~~J__ _!~::=::=::=~::J Smoke billowed from the upper stories and an acrid odor spread throughout the city. 

Three newways to survive college. · 

7be MacinJosb Clas5ic 
With Apple's intrcx:luction of three new Macintosh~ computers, meeting the challenges ofcollege life just got awhole lot easier. Because now, everybcx:ly can afford aMacintosh. 
The is our most affordable mcx:lel, yet it comes with everything you need­including ahard disk drive.lhe N!!t!ii!M!DDI combines color capabilities with affordability. And the Nlltlli\{ijdiJD is perfect for students who need a computer with extra power and expandability. 
No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll have acomputer that lightens your work load without giving you another tough subject to learn. Every Madntosh computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And when you've learned one program, you're well on your way to learning them all.That'sbecause thousands ofavail­able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. You can evenshare information with someone who uses a different type ofcomputer-thanks to Apple's versatile SuperDrive~ which reads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple~ II floppy disks. 
See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, and find out how surviving college just got awhole lot easier. 
NOTRE DAME COi\'IPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
,®

• The power to be your best~ 
Cl1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Appte logo, and MacintoSh are regtstered trademarks ol Apple Computer. Inc. SuperOrive and "The power to be your best" are trademarks of Ap~e Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. MS~OOS ls a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a regislered tradernark ollnternatlonal Business Machines Corporation. 


~---------~----­
Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 5 



O'Hara 
continued from page 1 
proximately $550-600 for the academic year.) 
Husso explained that when a student's financial aid package is figured, his office takes costs of attendance and subtracts the amount the family is able to contribute to figure financial need. 
Indirect costs of attendance includes books and supplies, travel costs and incidentals, said Russo. lie said that ap­proximately $550 to $600 is figured in as enough for stu­dent's incidental costs. 
Students expressed concern that this figure was too low and suggested that this amount be doubled when figuring costs. One student suggested that close to $100 is spent on foot­ball tickets early in the aca­demic year. Russo agreed to look into this figure. 
The following recommenda­
-tions concerning financial aid were made in "The Challenge of Diversity: A Report on Racial Relations at Notre Dame": 
•That 
the University set spe­cific goals for each year in the next decade as the school gets closer to the realization of the goal to meet financial aid needs for every undergraduate. 

•That 
the Office of Financial Aid make it a policy to present four-year financial aid plans to students, especially minorities. The school currently makes year-to-year commitments for accepted students. 

•That 
the Alumni Association encourage every alumni club develop a scholarship fund. 


•That the Office of Financial 

is currently accepting applications for the paid position of 
Accent Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit a one-page personal statement to John O'Brien at The Observer by 5 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 
or call John at 239-5303. 






FREE 

SINGLE Y<ILB* HAMBURGER WITH PURCHASE OF A SINGLE Y<ILB* HAMBURGER 
Niles Wendy s. Nor valid wirh any orher .... oiler Bacon. cheese and rax exrra ' ~Jase presenl coupon when ordenng-r 
el we1ghl belore cookmg L..W...w) 
'"'""~""'""·''"ffl"""' 6 
I 

Aid and the Career and Place­ment Office continue to support the Graduates Interviewing for Tomorrow (GIFT) program which has a long-term goal of establishing a scholarship fund for students who must leave the University for financial reasons. 
While the first two recom­mendations were addressed by the students, the latter two were not raised in the discus­sion. 
Beauchamp talked to the group about the 10-year plan for financial aid that was pre­sented to the Board of Trustees in May, 1990. The goal is to meet the financial needs of ev­ery undergraduate by the year 2000. 
He reported that starting with this year's freshman class, every minority student's finan­cial need is met. In addition, the number of Notre Dame Scholars has doubled. 
Students asked Russo if his office could design four-year financial aid plans for students entering the University. He re­sponded that packages have to be planned on a year-to-year basis due to changing financial situations of students. 
Throughout the meeting, stu­dents brought up specific con­cerns based on personal expe­rience. Russo assured the stu­dents that his office deals with financial need on an individual basis. Both he and Mason told the students that they were available to talk to any student who has concerns about finan­cial aid. 
excluded er ar [
COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 1o 1991 I UiiVi:iii.) •-• • • • •----;.. COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 10 
1991


FREE---r--FREE___ 
I I I I 

FREE 
I LARGE DRINK WITH 
: PURCHASE OF A GARDEN 
I SPOT SALAD BAR OR 
TACO SALAD 
I Vahd ar any Sourh Bend, Mishawaka or 

filEll
Niles Wendy's Nor vahd WJih any orher ,.._I offer Tax exrra Please presenr rI coupon when ordenng Sup B r 

--..~. 
... 
AP Photo

Investiture 
Crown Prince Naruhito is followed by court chamberlains carrying a ceremonial sword during Saturday's court rituals in Tokyo. 
ERIC CHRISTIANSEN: nnally 21 and an ftllad ootl 
/'" ~,~, 
'1 <-·<::,;:,.... 
_.. 
.. ...... 

HAPPY BlmiDAYI Jon,Dan,Jay,Jaramy,Nirc, Tom 
• • THE RISE AND FAll Of A5MAu. I I I FORTUNE (OOKIE FACTORY 
z WFJ>., FEB. 1.7-SAT., MAR! ]I l. 8: I0 I'M
::»::S::(~::~~t•M HALL
I,.
-.ro""" $7. ·""'''''"and ,.,.,,... <.\<m•n 
diSCIIIIIIIS ar·ailahk. U'(•t/. 'lhurs a11tl Su11 
0 Buy tic:kL'b :11 l.al'<lftUOL" Swdt."nl CA.·nk·•· or ;~t rhe d< MiiSim:;•nl :md Vis;.~ Gill (2191 Zj9-Hill-! 
I SUPER VALUE MENU ITEM I SINGLE lf.ILB* HAMBURGER
WITH PURCHASE OF TWO I WITH PURCHASE OF A
SUPER VALUE MENU ITEMS I I 
SINGLE 1f.l LB* HAMBURGER 
Valid ar any Soulh Bend, Mishawaka or I Niles Wendy's. Nor valid w1rh any orher oiler Bacon, cheese and rax exrra I ,....... ~·--'"·· ........ 
ra
Niles Wendy's. Nor valid wilh any orher "'" 
Please presenr coupon when ordering. 1
I o er. Bacon. cheese and lax exrra ~lease presenl coupon when ordering. r 
~ 
COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 10, 1991 I Ner we1ghr be lore cooking · [ UiiVi:iii,) I COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 10, 1991 
320 DIXIE WEDEEM COUPONS AT 
OR AT ANY OTHER sour~ y 80MJJ1~J!~~~\&sN~NDY'S 
-~ --------~----­
OPERATION DESERT SHIELD
page 6 Monday, February 25, 1991 


WEEKEND GULF ROUNDUP 
Deadline and peace plan discussed 
•UNITED NATIONS-U.N. Security Council diplomats con­sulted privately Friday after President Bush confronted Iraq with a Saturday deadline to start leaving Kuwait and the Soviet Union unveiled a revamped compromise peace plan. No full meeting of the international body or the 12-member security council was scheduled, but a top official met with representatives from several countries to prepare for a possible U.N. peace-keeping role should Iraq begin a pullout from Kuwait. Libyan President Moammar Gadhafi said the United Nations needed to take a more active role in efforts to resolve the Gulf War, calling for an emergency council meeting. "This matter started in accordance with the resolutions of the Security Council and now a new phase . . . must be also in accordance with the resolutions of the Security Council," Gadhafi said in a television interview. Bush's ultimatum set a noon EST Saturday deadline for Iraq to begin a large-scale withdrawal from Kuwait. He gave Iraq a week to get out of Kuwait. 
Gulf war must destroy Iraq's war machine 
•JERUSALEM -Defense Minister Moshe Arens said Saturday the Gulf War must go on, arguing that a quick cease-fire would leave Iraqi President Saddam Hussein with most of his army intact and in a position to threaten Israel. "We are far from destroying the Iraqi war machine ... and if he (Saddam) withdraws from Kuwait, he will still have part of his war machine and this can certainly cause a problem in the future," Arens said on Israel radio. Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, agreed to a Soviet peace plan calling for it to withdraw from Kuwait within 21 days. He ignored a U.S. ultimatum for Iraq to begin withdrawing by noon EST today or face a ground war. Arens predicted the allied forces would crush Iraq if the war continued. "The forces led by the Americans are in the process of defeating the Iraqi forces and will defeat them completely once the ground battle starts," he said. 
Vietnam weapon used differently in desert 
•RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -Napalm, the controversial weapon used by the United States in the Vietnam War, is back on the battlefield in Kuwait, and is already drawing opposition. U.S. command spokesmen said the explosive gelatin was being dropped on oil-filled trenches built by the Iraqis as part of their barriers against a ground offensive. The napalm ignites and burns off the oil to prevent the Iraqis from firing the trenches during a ground invasion, officials said. After reporters observed napalm bombs being loaded on U.S. Marine Corps bombers, pilots and ground crew members confirmed it had been in use for several days. But officials said the napalm, which became controversial in the Vietnam War when news photographs showed it burning civilians, has not been used against Iraqi soldiers. "It has not been used on personnel," the command said. Military officers, who asked not to be named, said the Marines' AV-8B Harrier jets hover above the napalm targets to ensure the bomb goes where it's intended. 
Woman near front no different than men •oN THE SAUDI BORDER -There are no women closer to the front line than Sgt. Theresa Lynn Treloar. "I could have turned this down. But I had no hesitation at all," she said, running chipped nails through shoulder-length blonde hair about to get its first washing in a week. "It's not every day you have a war." It is rare to find a woman attached to a unit like the 2nd Armored Cavalry· Regiment. It is the most forward eyes and ears of the heavily armored VII Corps, expected to play the central role in any ground offensive against Iraqi forces. Military security rules preclude saying exactly how close to the border the headquarters camp is, or describing Treloar's exact job. She works for the kind of unit whose soldiers have no insignia on their desert camouflage uniforms, if they wear them. It is also the kind of unit that says it knows that the nearest woman soldier is 12 to 30 miles back. Some officers suggested she move back when the fighting starts and the unit has to cross the border. But Treloar's battalion commander and her commanding officer, Capt. Michael Mendell, wanted her to stay. "She's just like any other soldier, she's just a little better in her field," said Mendell, 40, of Park City, Utah. 
Parakeets warn of approachingenemies 
•NEAR KUWAITI BORDER -In ancient Rome geese were kept to warn of approaching enemies. In Saudi Arabia, they're using parakeets. A sizable number of parakeets were distributed to the 2nd Marine Division as sensitive sniffers of the lethal gases Iraqi forces could use against it in event of a ground war. The division's administrative section acquired two, which it named Ike and Tina after the American pop singers, Ike and Tina Turner. Endowed with a quicker metabolism than humans, the parakeets will theoretically expire before soldiers in event of agas attack. But Cpl. Michael Nedigh said: "The gas will get to us as soon as it gets to the birds." "They've become pets," he said. If gas is hurled at the Marines, a beast of another stripe will probably prove more effective. The "Fox" is a German-made laboratory-on-wheels that can rapidly monitor and analyze hundreds of gases in the surrounding environment. 
Pro-Saddam Arabs blame allies for ground offensive 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Arabs sympathetic to Saddam Hussein denounced the allied ground offensive Sunday as a premeditated effort to destroy Iraq, but backers of the coali­tion said the Iraqi leader alone was to blame. 
"It's the saddest day in the world, with all those young sol­diers who are now going to die because of one man," said Ali Mohammed, a Chamber of Commerce employee in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. · 
In Jordan, where pro-Saddam sentiment is widespread, Parliament Speaker Abdul Latif Arabiyat called on all Arab and Muslim nations to unite behind Iraq. 
"All believers in Iraq and ev­erywhere will stand united and will challenge the aggression of the allied evil powers," Arabiyat said. 
His comments were delivered after Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz secretly visited Jordan on his way home from Moscow, according to ·parlia­mentary deputies. 
In Yemen, thousands of peo­ple took to the streets of the 
Presidential phone 
capital, San'a, to demonstrate against the United States and its allies. Some pelted the Egyptian and British embassies with stones. Security cordons kept them from attacking the U.S. and Saudi Arabia embassies. 
President Ali Abdullah Saleh spoke to the demonstrators, telling them the "attack on Iraq is not designed to liberate Kuwait but an attempt to de­stroy Iraq's human and military potential." 
Yemen does not condone the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, but opposes the deployment of the U.S.-led coalition in the region. 
Tunisia said it was "deeply disappointed" by the attack, and leaders of most Algerian political parties also condemned it. 
"This is proof that the United States had no other goal except to destroy Iraq," said Hocine Ait Ahmed, leader of the opposition Socialist Forces Front in Algeria. 
In contrast, Kuwait's ambas­sador to Egypt, Abdei-Razak ei­Kandari, said the allies "had to start a ground offensive be-
call 
cause of the Iraqi regime's lack of response to the peace calls." 
"We're very happy," said Adnan al-Shawaihan of the Kuwaiti Information Office in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. "But we're also concerned about our relatives and what the Iraqis will do as they leave." 
U.S. military officials said Saturday that the Iraqis, per­haps anticipating their forced departure from Kuwait, had stepped up random executions of civilians there. 
The Saudi government, host to the allied force, issued a brief announcement Sunday saying the allies had "commenced their ground war to liberate sister Kuwait in line with the Operation Desert Storm plan ... From God we derive support and success." 
In Syria, another Arab mem­ber of the allied coalition, the official media reported the start of the offensive -in which U.S. commanders said Syria was involved -without comment. But Tishrin, a state-run Damascus newspaper, said Saddam's regime bore the blame. 
APPhotJ 


0 resident Bush speaks on the telephone with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev from the White ~ouse Friday to discuss the situation in the Persian Gulf. 
Home front: Americans rally around troops as ground campaign begins 
Americans had, for six months, prepared for, imagined and feared a history-making desert battle against Saddam Hussein. On Sunday, at last, came reality. 
"And such a joyous reality!" said Leilani Young, whose Kuwaiti husband is among U.S.­led troops on the front lines. "After months and months, the waiting is over and the news is good." 
It was a euphoria reminiscent of the air campaign's first days. People interrupted their weekend rituals to celebrate early reports that both Iraqi resistance and coalition casual­ties were light. 
"There is this sense of relief because we all want to get it over with," said Judy Zenzen of Sauk Centre, Minn., whose son is a Navy medic. "But there's more. There's being a mother and thinking of your son." 
Relatives of ground troops dug in along Kuwait's border have spent six months in a kind of purgatory, waiting for the ground assault finally launched Saturday after President Bush's deadline for Iraqi withdrawal had passed. 
Now the waiting starts all over again. 
"We just got on our knees and prayed, 'Please God, let it be over soon," said Barbara Cuttitta of Concord, Calif., whose son, Mack, is a Marine sergeant. 
Similar prayers went out around the nation. In church pews and living rooms, at breakfast counters and on park benches, Americans did as the president asked and took a moment to remember the troops. 
"Get in and get out fast," said Lenora Greene, a New York cabbie who had her radio tuned to an all-news station. "That's what I'm thinking. That's what I'm hoping. That they'll get in and get out fast." 
Fast and safe. From the start, many of those with loved ones in the Persian Gulf have been perhaps most terrified by the prospect of a ground war in which some have estimated there would be 45,000 American casualties. 
"There's a certain level of ex­pectation that they're not com­ing home," said Noetha White, who attended a special prayer service at the Monumental Baptist Church in Jersey City, N.J. 
"I was married at 19, a mother at 20 and my greatest fear is that I'll be a widow at 21," said Rebecca Emory Thomas of Terre Haute, Ind., whose husband is with a Marine antitank infantry bat­talion. 
"This is it," said Carol DiCioccio of Hartford, Conn. "I could lose my son." 


Monday, February 25, 1991 OPERATION DESERT SHIELD page 7 
Kremlin says it's still not too late to end war in Persian Gulf 

MOSCOW (AP) -The Kremlin insisted on Snnday that the U.N. Security Council could still step in to stop the Persian Gulf War and criticized the United States for starting the ground war while Soviet peace efforts were under way. 
"The instinct to rely on a military solution prevailed, de­spite ... Iraq's agreement to withdraw its forces from Kuwait," said a statement read by Foreign Ministry spokesman Vitaly Churkin at a news con­ference. 
"We in the Soviet Union ex­press regret that a very real chance for a peaceful outcome of the conflict has been missed," Churkin said. 
On Saturday, Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq announced that his government had accepted a peace plan proposed by President Mikhail Gorbachev and would withdraw its troops from Kuwait within 21 days. 
The White House dismissed both the proposal and Iraq's acceptance of it as "without ef­
Presidential spokesman Vitaly lgnatenko answers reporters' questions 
just after the briefing in Moscow Saturday. 
Free Iraq Radio calls for revolt 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (APJ 
-The clandestine Voice of Free Iraq radio appealed to Iraqis on Sunday to revolt against Saddam Hussein and save their country from dictatorship and war. 
"Hit the headquarters of the tyrant and save the homeland from destruction," said the Iraqi opposition station,' which is thought to transmit from Saudi Arabia. 
The appeal was made by Salah Umar ai-Aii, a former member of Iraq's ruling Hevolutionary Command Council and the regional command of the Arab Baath Socialist Party. 
"Rise to save the homeland from the clutches of dictatorship so that you can devote yourself to avoiding the dangers of the continuation of the war and destruction," said ai-Aii, who was purged by Saddam in 1972 and is now a leading opponent of the Iraqi president. 
uHonorable sons of the Tigris and Euphrates, at these decisive moments of your life and while facing the danger of death at the hands of foreign forces, you have no option in ordflr to survive and defend the homeland but to put an end to the dictator and his criminal gang." 
AI-Aii said Saddam had not considered the innocent blood that would be shed because of his refusal to leave Kuwait. He said the Iraqi leader had smuggled his family and funds out of the country and would leave Iraq empty and in ruins. 
"He will flee the battlefield when he becomes certain that the catastrophe has engulfed every street, every house and every family in Iraq," al-Aii said. 
AI-Ali described Saddam as the "criminal tyrant of Iraq" who refused all peace endeavors. 
fect." But Churkin said, "The diver­

• /"":~<::~"!' .. 

JALIBAH Ef) · .. ---........_.,...___ ..., \ (\~: ' 
... ·---y RUMAilA ~~­
"· 
SOUTHEAST 
'-.., I I '--\ 
',,, ;. "' 
1SHAIBAH WEST' 
' '~. 

gence between formulas which Iraq had agreed to and the proposals of a number of other states were not great. They could be agreed in a Security Council meeting within 24 to 48 hours." 
Churkin said, "It is still not too late to do so." No meeting of the Security Council was scheduled Sunday. 
The Soviet statement said Iraq's acceptance of the pian had "created a basically new situation, clearing the way to transferring the gulf conflict to the footing of a political set­tlement." 
But President Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, said Sunday the United States could not delay the ground assault to allow more time for the Soviet peace efforts because "Kuwait is going up in flames.... We want to get him out of there before he can do any other terrible damage." 
Scowcroft added that the Soviets remain "stalwart mem­bers" of the allied coalition but he acknowledged that their ob­jectives "may not be entirely parallel to those of the United States." 
"While they did make a seri­ous effort and are obviously disappointed it didn't work, they are solidly still behind the coalition," Scowcroft said in an interview on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press." 
Churkin said the Soviet Union made every effort to implement the peace plan before the ground offensive was launched. 
"The governments of Arab countries were advised of steps being undertaken by us," the statement said. "The Soviet ambassador to the United Nations took steps toward con­vening an emergency Security Council meeting to examine the obtaining situation as a top priority, and set a date for the start of the Iraqi troops with­drawal." 
Gorbachev also asked Bush to delay the onset of a ground of­fensive for one or two days, presidential spokesman Vitaly lgnatenko said. He did not say what the White House response was, but Bush ordered the of­fensive Sunday. 
,-----'------~ ------­
@ Major airport Ef) Minor airport 
-.....:..., 
IRAN 

SHADGAN 
Persian Gulf 

Amphibious Update 
I 
About a dozen ships that had been in the 
· central gulf 

steamed north to hook 
up with the forward 
elements of a Marine 
amphibious landing 
force. 
Kuwaiti sources said 
a U.S. Marine amphib­
ious force seized the 
island of Faylaka; but 
U.S. officials denied it. 
L'J 101 st Sets Up 

Iii. A 
-· Staging rea 
A fleet of 300 helicopters, some piloted by women, flew into Iraq in the largest helicopter assault in military history. The assault was aimed at cutting Iraqi's supply lines. 
I 
Other helicopters airlifted more than 2,000 men, 50 humvees and howitzers 
supplies more than 50 into Iraq. 
RUMAilA ', OILFIELD ' 

IRAQ 
I 
Troops approached Kuwait City from the west and the south, and U.S. 82nd Airborne Division paratroopers landed on the outskirts of Kuwait City. 
I .
. ' 1!/
"/ )/
'-. . 
i' \/
' . 
...,.... ' . _.....(
' . 
...... 

Ground Assault 
I 
Marines wearing full chemical protection gear encountered conventional artillery fire and s~me 
chemical mines nine miles north of the Saud1 
Arabian border in Kuwait. It took the Marines 2 1/2 hours to punch through the first Iraqi defense. 
A~ of 7 p.m. EST 
AP/C. Greer, A. ToreSource: AP Research 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~ 
page 8 
Medical study: tobacco smoking tied to strokes 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­Cigarette smoking speeds dete­rioration of arteries that supply the brain and quadruples the risk of one kind of stroke, studies show. 
A 50-year-old who smokes two packs of cigarettes a day has artery damage comparable to a light smoker 10 years older, said Dr. Robert Dempsey, a neurosurgeon at the University of Kentucky in Lexington. 
"The effect in that 50-year-old would be to take 10 years off his life," Dempsey said Saturday at the American Heart Association's annual meeting on strokes. 
In a separate study, re­searchers found those who smoked a pack a day or less were four times as likely as non-smokers to suffer from the form of stroke called sub­arachnoid hemorrhage, which occurs primarily in people younger than 65 and more commonly in women. It has a high death rate. 
Those who smoked more than a pack a day had up to 11 times the risk of subarachnoid hem­orrhages, which make up 7 percent of the 500,000 strokes suffered by Americans each year. 
Dr. Will Longstreth, the study's author, said that the risk is especially high within three honrs of smoking a cigarette, and then it falls off gradually. But smokers continue to have a higher risk of this kind of stroke even years after they give up cigarettes, he said. 
"If you stop smoking now you're looking at a 10-year pe­riod of time until your risk is what it is in someone who's never smoked," said Longstreth, a neurologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. 
His findings were based on study of 149 stroke victims and 149 people of similar back­grounds who had not had strokes. He concluded that smoking is responsible for about 38 percent of all sub­arachnoid hemorrhages. 
He said that more than 8,000 such strokes could be prevented each year in the United States with the elimination of smok­ing. 
In the other study, Dempsey made use of a special ultra­sound scanner to determine the thickness of waxy deposits building up inside the carotid artery, one of the principal suppliers of blood to the brain. 
These deposits can ultimately diminish or block blood flow to parts of the brain, causing strokes. 
Dempsey found in an exami­nation of 790 patients that the thickness of the deposits, called plaques, was directly related to the amount that smokers had smoked over their lifetimes. 
"Heavy smokers have much more plaque in their carotid ar­teries than non-smokers," he said. 
Diabetes and high blood pressure were also linked to the formation of plaques, but smoking was a greater risk factor than either of those, Dempsey said. 
Several studies have identified smoking as a possible risk factor for strokes, but the link has not yet been shown as clearly as the link between smoking and heart disease, researchers said. 
Statistics collected by the Framingham Heart Study in Massachusetts suggest that smoking raises the risk of stroke by 40 percent in men and 60 percent in women. 
Longstreth's study shows the effect is more striking with re­gard to subarachnoid hemor­rhage, which occurs when a blood vessel near the surface of the brain ruptures and bleeds into the space between the brain and the skull. 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal stateme!lt by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 27 to Momca Yant. For further information, call 
(239-5303). 

WhleFq(PG) 4:45-7:00-8:30 Sllnce ollhel..mlb (R) 4:10-7:t5-el45 
LA. flay ~13) 
s:et-7:aMla 

2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
********* 

Dennis Schoffe~, United States Air Force Flight Test Center spokesman, inspects fissure that has ap­peared recently m runway at Rogers Dry Lake at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. 
Bangladesh election campaign violence results in two people dead, 25 injured 
DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) ­Supporters of two rival political parties contesting next week's national elections fought with guns and knives Sunday, killing at least two people and injuring 25, police said. 
The violence between sup­porters of the Awami League and the National Democratic Party occurred in the south­eastern port city of Chittagong, said city police, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Police said two people died of bullet wounds in the clash. Police did not specify which party the victims represented. 
The deaths raised to 13 the number of people killed in poll­related violence since the be­ginning of campaigning for election to the 300-seat Parliament. Police and media report more than 1,000 people have been injured. 
More than 60 million people are eligible to vote in the coun­try's fifth elections since it gained independence from Pakistan in 1971. 
The elections would be Bangladesh's first democratic transfer of power without coups or assassinations. 

Bangladesh's caretaker gov­ernment announced elections last December after President Hussain Muhammad Ershad stepped down following a popu­lar uprising against what his opponents said was a corrupt and authoritarian rule. 
The Awami League, headed by Sheik Hasina, is the country's first and biggest political party. 
Although the National Democratic Party is small, Salahuddin Kader Chowdhury, a minister in Ershad's govern­ment, is considered a powerful candidate. 
Come Watch Irish Hoops on 5 TVs 
•Nightly Specials 
• Dart Tournaments 
Fri +Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 
All you can eat 2 -topping pizza for only $6 a person 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 
1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 


----------------------., 
Business 
Monday, February 25, 1991 
page 9 

-------------~--~------­
NO Credit Union offers students spring break loans 
By L. PETER VOB 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Credit Union is utTering members special loans in amounts up to $500 to help cover spring break expenses. 
Bob Marshall, a 1988 gradu­ate of ND and a credit officer at the Credit Union, designed the program. 
"We always have a springtime loan special, usually based on tax season," he said. This year the Credit Union's special is directed at students who want to take a vacation. 
"Many students were right on the fence as far as going away for spring break," Marshall said. "We thought this special could help out students." 
The loan has an interest rate of 11.99%. Payments may be deferred in two different ways, according to Marshall. 
"Students may defer making payments until June, July and August or begin repaying the loan in April," he said. 
"It all depends on the financial situation of the individual," for instance, whether they are working now or will work during the summer, he added. 
In order to qualify for the loan, a student must be a mem­ber of the Credit Union. Any student may become a member by opening a savings account with a balance of $5. 
A student may become a member and apply for the loan at the same time, Marshall said. 
No cosigner is required for the loan. "It takes 20 minutes to fill out the application, even with heavy traffic," Marshall said. 
IN gambling bill proposed 

Boom in computer war games 
Tom Baskin plays the F-15 Strike Eagle computer war game at San Francisco's Egghead Software store. The new line of computer war games allows the player to command high-tech weapons. 
Oil closes at record low since war's start 
NEW YORK (AP) -Before the war with Iraq began, everyone was wondering how high oil prices could fly. Now, the oil market is more like a limbo dance, with traders wondering how low crude oil can go. 
The magic number many ana­lysts are looking at seems to be $15 per barrel, though they are divided when asked whether crude will be able to tumble be­low that threshold. 
On Friday the benchmark grade, light sweet crude for de­livery in April, settled at $17.91 per barrel, down 59 cents, on the New York Mercantile Ex­change. That was a record low dose for the crisis that began with the invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
There seems to be an agree­ment that although oil set a record of $41.15 per barrel as it shot up this past fall on the New York Mercantile Ex­change, it's not about to set a record on the way down. The exchange's lowest price for next-month delivery of crude oil was $9.75 per barrel, on April 1, 1986. 
"Fifteen dollars is a psycho­logieal number that will be dif­ficult to break through." said Thomas Blakeslee, an energy analyst with Pegasus Econo­metric Group Inc. 
At that level, producing na­tions would probably scramble to get the price back up, run­ning into the problems they al­ways face concerning who should pump less oil, experts said Friday. 
"Our feeling is they probably will have difficulty taking steps to cut production," Blakeslee said. "We could conceivably go down to $13, with $12.75 being an important number to the downside. But we still have a ways to go before that's the case." 
Others say oil has shown a re­luctance to go much below $16 during the past two years. They see no reason for it to get much lower now, noting that even though world production is now too high, it will take time for Iraqi and particularly Kuwaiti crude to be brought back into the supply stream. 
Senior oil analyst Ann-Louise Hittle at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. said predictions of a big crash could turn out to be as overstated as the predic­tions of huge price increases at the outbreak of war. She sees a potential for oil to fall to $16 per barrel in the near future. 
"The market has already dis­counted to a large extent the end of the crisis, and what could happen is when you actu­ally get to it, is it doesn't sell that much," Hittle said. ''I'm really in that camp. I just don't see it crashing as badly. The market has already fallen a great deal." 
The same analysts who now seem unanimous in predicting lower prices had been equally unanimous in predicting higher prices once the shooting war with Iraq began. Just the oppo­site happened. 
After a momentary spike when the bombs began falling on Jan. 17. crude plunged a record $10.56 per barrel in one day on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Could the experts blow it again? 
"I don't think we can be dead wrong on this one," Blakeslee said. Oil's tremendous rise last fall was fueled by psychology, the fears of shortages that could develop if Saudi oil sup­plies were eliminated in a war. 
Those fears were shattered amid the early reports of the devastating allied bombing raids on targets in Iraq and Kuwait. 
But on their descent, oil prices are running into the fundamen­tals of supply and demand, which should make things more predictable, Blakeslee said. 
If the price gets low enough, some refiners are likely to re­build the supplies they depleted during the crisis. An American Petroleum Institute report showed crude oil stocks last week were about 10 million barrels down from a year ear­lier. 
Analysts also see demand building as the world climbs out of the recession. 
But in the short run, there will surely be moves to cut back production. 
The application requires the student's name, address, basic credit information and student identification number. 
"In most cases the applicant should be able to walk out with a check," said Denise Lynch, di­rector of member services and branch operations at the Credit Union. 
Dennis Emmons, director of credit services at the Credit Union, said that "they are try­ing to get students to become members so that those students can take advantage of other services the Credit Union has to otTer." 
The Credit Union can provide loans for graduating students that cover rent or relocation costs, student credit cards, emergency loans as well as many other services. 
Marshall said that the Credit Union is open until 7 p.m. on Mondays and until 5:30 p.m. on Fridays. 
Loan officers are available to process the spring break loan applications any time the Credit Union is open, Lynch said. 
The Credit Union is located just north of Douglas road near Juniper. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Advo­cates of casino gambling in Gary say attempts to broaden their legislation's appeal may have backfired, leaving them in a difficult position as a major gambling bill comes to the floor of the Indiana House this week. 
"My gut feeling is we've got some work to do," said Sen. Earline Rogers, a Gary Demo­crat and original sponsor of casino legislation. "We appear to be no better ofT, and maybe less well off, than we were in 1989." the first year a casino bill was defeated. 
Unsuccessful in 1989 and once again last year, Gary casino supporters attempted to win new support this year by adding provisions to permit casinos in the old resort towns of French Lick and West Baden Springs and to allow gambling on Ohio River excursion boats. 
Then last week, without the blessing of Gary legislators, House Ways and Means Chair­person B. Patrick Bauer, D­South Bend, added to the casino bill his proposal to allow ofT-track pari-mutuel betting on horse races. Bauer claimed the addition would make the bill stronger. 
However, Rogers and others now believe the forced mar­riage of the two major gam­bling proposals did neither any good. Many say that instead of broadening the base of support, the move broadened the base of opposition. 
"The addition of pari-mutuel gave one more umbrella for those people who want to hide from casting a vote on casinos," Rogers said. 
House Minority Leader Paul Mannweiler, H-lndianapolis, said gambling advocates "did the wrong thing by putting the bills together." 
"I think they hurt it, instead of helping it. I still don't think they have enough votes to pass it," he said. Mannweiler added that he's aware of only one or two of the House's 48 Republicans who are likely to support the newly enlarged gambling measure. 

AP Photo

Martin sworn in 
President Bush greets Labor Secretary Lynn Martin after she was sworn in at the Labor Deoartment in Washinaton Friday. 

---~~---~-------------~-~-~--~------­
Viewpoint

page 10 Monday, February 25, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in~Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Critics of Sacred Heart restoration must consider excessive war expenditures also 
Dear Editor: simplicity of the gleaming white available for comparison now. 
It has become fashionable on marble temples of ancient Our government is currently this campus to bash Notre Greece and Rome? The answer spending millions of dollars A Dame in general and the CSC in is as simple as those temples: DAY for the "liberation" of particular for the enormous there is no point of comparison. Kuwait and, according to a amount of money spent on the While the temples of antiquity recent article in "The San recent restoration of Sacred were, strictly, shrines of the Francisco Chronicle," that Heart Church. Beyond the fi­gods, off limits to humans (save, figure will soon reach 1 billion nancial consideration, these sa­of course, the high priest on dollars. A DAY. A billion dollars vants contend, look at the re­special occasions), Christian spent solely on death, Dear Editor: are portraying Saddam Husseinsults: every inch of the church churches are people places. And destruction and ecological dis­As a member of Pax Christi, I as completely evil and them­covered with garish murals or what were people places like in aster. 
was rather stung by Tom Esch's selves as completely pure. Yet,pretentious gilt. Who, they ask, the ancient world? They were criticism (The Observer, Feb. 7) at the same time, we have done could possibly worship here? (A grand buildings, covered with So, my dear critics of Sacred of those of us who have exactly the same thing-we por­
letter in the recent issue of brightly painted murals and Heart, how many letter have 
responded to the Persian Gulf tray George Bush as the evil one"Common Sense" assures us exquisite mosaics. It seems the you written to protest this ob­War with prayer. Certainly I and ourselves as righteous.
that no Christian worth his/her ancients understood better than scenity? How many phone calls agree with him that prayer by Through my prayers, I havesalt worships in Sacred Heart, we sophisticated moderns how have you made? How many itself is meaningless. However, I come to accept that Georgeanyway, so we needn't worry important sensory stimulation is shelters have you visited, or am utterly convinced of the Bush is a man of integrity; aabout it!) for us mortals. AIDS clinics, or unemployment value of prayer in discerning man who is following his con­
offices, or soup kitchens? What 
the way to ending this violence. science. Similarly, I believe thatBefore getting to the heart of Arguing about the suitability have you done to plead for an I am a pacifist. I believe that Saddam Hussein has a goodthis reflection, let me say that I or the artistic merits of the in­end to death and destruction nonviolent solutions .are possi­side. He is courageous and hasfor one worship in Sacred Heart terior of Sacred Heart is not, and a beginning of people ex­ble for all our human conflicts. done some good things for hisregularly and happily. Am I however, the point of this re­penditures? 
And I believe that violence is country in the past. I think thatdistracted? Certainly. But I can flection. The point is money, the You may be inspired or re­sinful. I have the highest admi­this is demonstrated by thebe distracted in a bare study amount of money spent on the pulsed by Sacred Heart. Leaving ration for the Gulf Crisis Action support he has among his owncarrel in the library's reference restoration of a church and the aside the obvious observation 
Group. These people have people and among the poorer
section. At least the distractions amount of money spent on that the church is the people demonstrated very clearly their peoples throughout the Middlein Sacred Heart remind me that death. and not the building, you may opposition to the Persian Gulf East. However, I must, at theI am the latest in a line of The restoration of Sacred find it possible or repugnant to War. However, to me, their ac­same time, condemn the evil ac­wonderful men and women that Heart was completed 102 years worship there. But you may not, 
tivism has seemed rather tions which both Bush and
stretches back· nearly 2000 after the present church was it seems to me, protest the one quixotic with no real hope of Hussein have taken-the
years. Gazing at those "garish" dedicated. Projecting that it will expenditure without giving paintings, I understand that the be another 100 or so years be­serious consideration to the changing anything. So, I have bombing of Iraq into oblivion; 
spent my time in prayer, trying the SCUD attacks on Israel; the
Communion of Saints is more fore the next restoration is other. For the wealthy in our 
to discern how to change the invasion of Kuwait; the use ofthan a theological whimsy. I necessary, it seems that, to be country it is, in many ways, the hearts of those who support the chemical weapons and thedraw hope from the realization fair, we should divide the best of times. For thousands of 
that, in every age, ordinary war and how I needed to pumping of huge amounts of oil
amount spent on the recent un­people in the Middle East, the change my heart. into the Persian Gulf.
people have struggled to dertaking by at least 100 to ar­Iraqis, Israelis, the soldiers and It is often easier for us to see I would strongly urge every­achieve extraordinary holiness. rive at a yearly cost. all the rest, and for the millions the speck in our opponent's eye one, both those in the peace
Although I am now a liturgist, of poor and marginalized in our I was for a good part of my When I first began thinking own country, it is the worst of than the log in our own. movement and those who sup­
Recently, I realized that many of port the war, to pray and reflectadult life a classicist, a lover about an article on this topic, I times. Perhaps we can work to­us in the peace movement are on how to end this war and howand teacher of Latin and the meant to compare that amount gether to find a far, far better 
making exactly the same to prevent similar wars in the
culture and civilization of the to the 1.5 million dollars poured way to peace. 
mistake which we criticize in future.
Greco-Homan world. How then, by. the United States each year 
others. We see so clearly that Joseph Gress 
I am asked, can I possibly find into El Salvador. Sadly, there is Marie Conn the President, the news media Off-campusany redeeming value to Sacred a more urgent and infinitely Off-campus and many who support the war Feb.10, 1991 
Heart? Where is the elegant more immoral expenditure Feb.15,1991 



DDONESBURY  
WHAT's TH/'3?  MINOIF ITUN&IN TH&NEUIS?  I l?O. I JU5T Ul<& 7V saJPe 7H& N&TIAJa<l<.  
I  /  /  5CUO 5TUl?S.  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
(3()! THe !<l5TOFYOU 
54Ve YOI.JR.­
?aV/35! l'U­8&0/<AYl 

'The trouble with experience is that it usually teaches you something you didn't want to know. 
Liam Geoghegan 
Viewpoint
Monday, February 25, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Comment about PLO, democracy deserves clarification 
Dear Editor: 
In his letter to the editor, Prof. Eugene Hochberg-Halton offers a passionate response to what he says he heard at a recent teach-in devoted to issues of human rights and the Gulf War (The Observer, Feb. 14). As one of the participants whom he citns, however, I fail altogether to recognize myself or any of the other spnakers, for that matter, as engaging in the "dissembling of facts and outright falsehoods." I am thoroughly dismayed and frankly bewildered by this reac­tion. 
As a long-time, active mem­ber of Amnesty International, I felt privileged to be invited to share the podium with Ms. Kelly Reuba, the campus coor­dinator for this international human rights association, and Professor Ghada Talhami, a very distinguished Arab­American political scientist. But to have this presentation labelled as "the apologetics for Arab fascism" simply dumbfounds me. 
I know Professor Hochberg­llalton to be a staunch defender of civil liberties. In fact, his letter indicates that it is on this basis that he claims to support the present war against Iraq. Admittedly, although I share these same principles, I could not differ more in my conclusions. Like many others, inducting almost half of the U.S. Senate, I view our headlong rush into this massive war without attempting serious prior resort to the readily available economic and diplomatic alternatives pro­foundly unwise. It is ultimately destined to wreak untold suf­fering, resentment and enmity throughout the region. Despite our declared intentions, our ac­tions are laying more ground­work for global havoc that will certainly last far beyond the day when our president decides to declare his Pyrrhic military victory over Iraq. 
Furthermore, I can foresee no likely outcome for this reckless and highly selective inter­vention that will make any en­during positive contribution to the overall security, nor to the improvement of basic human rights of peoples throughout the Middle East. Instead, the many and often interrelated problems stemming from earlier disputes over territorial claims, political rights and social justice will inevitably continue and probably intensify. 
Sadly, the United States, which has become over the last 40 years a formidable actor in the region through largely indi­rect influence, now appears as an immediate force with no perceptible recognition whatso­ever of the consequences of a whole series of earlier dealings, meddlings and bunglings. 
All three speakers at the teach-in, including myself, em­phatically condemned Iraq's in­vasion and occupation of Kuwait, as well as Saddam Hussein's disregard for inter­national law both in regard to his own citizens and those of Kuwait. Curiously, however, it was not these issues that incited Professor Hochberg­Halton's outbursts. Instead, with regard to myself, he fixes upon one specific comment made during the question and answer period when I referred to the "sort of" democratic character of the PLO. 
This remark was embedded within a longer comment upon the significance of the assassi­nation last month of Salah Khalif, better known as Abu Iyad, the second in command of the PLO. I intended, by this statement, to counter a mis­taken impression on the part of the questioner that the PLO is a monolithic organization. But given that Professor Hochberg­Halton goes on to draw the bizarre summary equation that "Assassination is sort of like democracy," I realize that, un­fortunately, I may have greatly overestimated the level of basic information about Middle East affairs possessed by some in the audience. To provide such background and, thus, hope­fully avoid unnecessary misun­derstanding, permit me to fill in a few evident gaps. 
The PLO was originally cre­ated by Egypt's autocratic president Abd ai-Nasir in 1964 in an effort to co-opt and con­trol the Palestinian cause. But since then it has passed through several stages of de­velopment, which have changed it from a diffuse radical revolu­come to be an increasingly of John F. Kennedy. tionary front, amounting to a ardent advocate of substantive It is in this context that I re­collection of guerilla organiza­negotiations between Israel and fer, then and now, to the demo­tions, to a conservative nation­the PLO within the framework cratic character of the PLO. At alist organization resembling of an international peace the same time, I was saluting more the structure and outlook conference. In responding to Abu Iyad and many like him of the independence the question as to how this whose spilt blood summons all movements now asserting polar shift in his position came who struggle to establish and themselves against Soviet about, he writes: "mostly it maintain democracy to quit this domination in the Baltics. came as a result of in ill-considered war. But even as 



the fighting rages beyond sight and control, our efforts should turn to replacing the old follies of violation and divisiveness represented by duplicitous, self-interested intervention on the sinister basis of appeals to high principle. 
Rather than repeat yet an­other epic debacle of the sort illustrated by our dealings with the late Shah of Iran, isn't it time that we risked initiatives founded on mutual recognitionIn the course of its transfor­the situation and positions of 
and respect for the rights of mation, the PLO has grown the Arab states and of the 
representation, as well as those considerably in size, scope and Palestinian people and their 
of conscience leading to the 
no less dramatically in its leaders, rather than of any 
establishment of truly regional democratic character. Also, changes in my outlook." 
economic development and re­during this same process, with It remains to be said that gional security arrangements? 
many ordeals and pitfalls, it those allegedly responsible for Simply surveying the line-up
has gradually and tenuously the murder of Abu Iyad in of nations within the Middle 
won for itself a measure of au­Tunis were from Abu Nidal's East, as many have pointed out, tonomy in the face of numerous gang of killers, acting report­should cause us to pose some 
states that have sought and edly as agents of Iraq. They 
fundamental questions. How is continue to seek to destroy, represent no part whatsoever it that among those Arab na­control or harness it for their of the official PLO. 
tions which oppose this essen­own particular interests. Furthermore, it appears that tially American war are those 
the motive for this tragic as­
which have made such recentThe supreme governing body sassination arises precisely 
and admirable advances to­
of the PLO is the Palestine from Abu Iyad's determination ward greater democratization,National Congress. In 1988, at to preserve and defend the 
such as Jordan, Tunesia and 
their 19th session at which the democratic character of this Algeria and the newly reunited assembly formally recognized organization. 
Yemen? Meanwhile, how is it the state of Israel, it consisted that those that so far are sidingof 450 delegates representing a He sought to resist the with us include not only the wide array of organizations, in­mounting pressures, especially 
absolutist monarchies of the 
terest groups and various local­from the outside, to revert to 
Gulf but states with utterly
ized constituencies. Decisions the patterns of the old and 
atrocious human rights
taken by the PNC affect not bankrupt polarization within 
records, paralleling Iraq's,
only the military arm of the Arab politics, which had sud­some of whom themselves con­
PLO, but its large, bureaucratic denly resurfaced as a result of tinue to occupy territory in di­infrastructure, which oversees the confrontation between Iraq rect violation of international 
hundreds of schools, hospitals and the American-driven coali­
law such as Turkey, Israel,
and clinics, in addition to a tion. Instead, he continued 
Syria and Morocco? 
wide range of social, cultural courageously to move in the di­and welfare facilities. A basic rection of a national identity 
I only hope that Professor 
textbook introduction to the that envisaged a peaceful coex­
Hochberg-Halton and any
contemporary PLO usually istence with Israel. In an inter­others who claim to support the points out that, even though it view published in Algeria on 
savagery of this war on the 
lacks territory and national the day he was killed, he basis of commendable princi­sovereignty in the ordinary reflects self-critically, stating 
ples show themselves far more sense, "the PLO is a much more his apprehensions and his consistent and conscientious in 
participatory, democratic or­hopes to avoid being driven by 
their pursuit of these ideals ganization than are the gov­popular frustration and 
than does our utterly shame­ernments of the Arab states." desperate fury toward less, hypocritical government.
Baghdad. "I don't want my 
Even now, in the midst of bat­This continuing maturation cause associated with the tle, but no less determinedlyand democratization of the PLO destruction of the Arab region," afterwards, let us have an end may be distorted and ignored he said. "We are really caught to fruitless name calling and for disruptive propaganda pur­between two fires." 
anticipate that what we inflict poses, but it has long been fully on others we also inflict uponrecognized by responsible and Thus, to regard Abu Iyad as 
ourselves. Is it not better to 
informed outside observers. anything but a martyr for the 
strive, as Lincoln put it, "to 
For instance, General cause of a Palestinian democ­bind up the nation's wounds" Yehoshafat Harkabi, widely re­racy is but a blatant case of 
and "to do all which maygarded as Israel's foremost blaming the victim. 
achieve and cherish a just, and analyst of Arab relations and Furthermore, to claim that the 
a lasting peace, among our­
former chief of Israeli military PLO is fascist in virtue of a selves and with all nations?" 
intelligence, categorically op­leaders' assassination is tan­posed a policy of rapproche­tamount to arguing that the 
Patrick D. Gaffney, C.S.C. 

ment with the Palestinians. United States is a totalitarian 
Department of Anthropology 
Over the last 20 years, dictatorship in virtue of Lee 
Feb.18,1991

however, General Harkabi has 1-Iarvey Oswald's gunning down 
Quotations misrepresent Saint Mary's peace group 
Dear Editor: tations out of context. Both the Peace Support Group was 
In response to a news article quotes cited in Matthew Miller's formed by concerned faculty (The Observer, Feb. 6) and a letter to the editor and the Feb. and students in order to main­viewpoint letter (The Observer, 6 news article were taken out of tain awareness and promote Feb. 14), I would like to clear the context of an hour-long dis­discussion of the Persian Gulf up several misconceptions re­cussion of events in the Persian War. While we appreciate the garding myself and the Saint Gulf War. Unless one was pre­coverage the Observer has Mary's Peace Support Group. sent at the meeting and heard given the group, it also can be 
First of all, I am a junior at the evolution of the discussion, detrimental if it is not presented Saint Mary's, not a senior. Also, it would be impossible for the in the manner in which it while I understand the random quotes to make sense occurred. difficulties in reporting· the dia­or to truly symbolize the depth logue at a meeting, I would also of the discussion. Peggy Abood urge The Observer's writers to Holy Cross Hall be very careful in taking quo-The Saint Mary's College Feb. 14,1991 
Correction 
Due to a copy editing error, several words from Jay Landry's column, "Many Christians forget Jesus' teach­ings during Gulf War crisis" (The Observer, Feb. 20), were omitted. The second sentence in the sixth paragraph of the article should have read: "For we, as a country, are a violent nation: we kill 1.6 million unborn human beings each year; we force many into a miserable existence (the homeless and poor) by not providing for their basic needs, but claim we are protecting their basic rights by spending 845 million dollars a day on the military before this war even began..." 

Ace 
page 12 
Left: 

Model Olivia Porter displays the beauty, comfort, and function of African styles. 
Right: 

Wrapped in a passionate embrace, models Joe Wilson and Tish Powell reveal a combination of the seductive and conservative. 



Right: 

Models James Suttle in his boxers in her teddy get 
Left: 

The clothes shown by Jay Ganger, a designer from South Bend, brings the look of traditional African dress to contemporary American designs. 
Left: 

The Black Cultural Arts Festival Fashion Show begins in an explosion of African-based designs as they take "A Visit to the Motherland." 
Right: 
In this traditional wedding scene, models James Suttle and Marvi Thomas prepare to say ,"I do." 
-------~--------------~~----------------..,.-----, 

page 13 
By LEHIA D. FRANKLIN 
Accent Writer 

s the lights went up in the darkene
A Monogram Room of the Joyce Ath and Convocation Center, the models this year's Black Cultural Arts Festi Fashion Show took the stage traditional African dress, giving credence to theme, "Explosion of Color." In their tribute to styles of the Motherland, the models presen hues, textures, and fabrics from various African countries, many of which have played a large part in contemporary European and American designs. In keeping with this African theme, one of the guest designers from the South Bend area, Jay Ganger, presented pieces from his line that had definite African flare. The designer quipped "Hammer pants" (as in M.G. Hammer) had their origin in Africa, and he featured similar pieces. Ganger also presented "seamless, sewless" wraps that serve as skirts, and can be used as head and shoulder wraps. The overall message of Ganger's designs was one of beauty, comfort, and function, principles central to African art, clothing, and design. Even though mid-February in South Bend doesn often lead one to think of spring, it was definitely in the air as the spring lines of several area stores presented. One scene, "SoU Like What U Sea," devoted entirely to the nautical navy and white, "Soft Hues" featured fashions in soft pastels and warm earth tones. On the business front, the attitude matched the clothes: bold and in controL Once again, the message was comfort and function as well as style and beauty, whether you're kicking back in the casual style or planning corporate takeovers in 9-to-5 wear. The models weren't the only ones styling and profiling though. The musical selections of Tiffani Dobbins singing "Home" a cappella, Michelle Cage singing "Good Enough", Keith Johnson singing "You and 1", and Leslie Edwards singing "All The Man I Need", were welcome surprises to the evening's events. Cage, Johnson, and Edwards were accompanied by Leroy Mcintosh on piano. The pres­ence of these talented individuals added a most romantic touch to the scenes devoted those afte seven occasions. Of course, a show wouldn't be complete without the appearance of South Bend's most flamboyant and fashionable designer, Fuddy Lewis. As usual, Fuddy's Fashions titillated the audience, making them "give it up," because they knew the models "looked gooood!" From bold coats with matching pants and shirts to a hot pink siren dress, Fuddy showed dashing wear on the most appropriate models. Fuddy also featured a striking fun-fur men's coat, a devastating black velour dress creation, and a unique ultrasuede men's suit in mustard yellow and brown. Newcomers Keisha Shelton and Ashea Price blew the crowd away with their "drop dead, I know I'm bad" presentation of Fuddy's evening wear. However, no one mastered the "I'm bad" method of modeling better than Fuddy himself as he took the stage and modeled his outfit, a coat and pantsuit combination of the drop dead red variety. Although patrons of the annual fashion show are used to Fuddy stealing the show, they were shocked that he was upstaged by the models themselves in their final scene, "Let's Spend the Night." Instead of the traditional swimsuit scene, the models decided to "expose" the audience to a taste of naughty after hours fashions. Something for every taste (except for you leather teddy fans) was shown, from the in­nocence of a white cover-up and baby doll gown to the seductive black garter belt, stockings, and feather boa. The men sported more conservative wear, featuring robes and boxer shorts of various prints and fabrics. More exciting than the clothes (or absence of) was the creative presentation of the scene. Between the undulations and gyrations and pulsations of the models, the audience was left gasping for breath or looking for their tongues to pick them up off of the floor. As Madonna' s "Justify My Love" provided background for the scene, the models provided the best of suggestions for use of this type of clothing. Participating in this year's production were models Eric Bailey, Corey Collins, Yvette Davison, Karl Domangue, Danielle Duchatellier, Eric Griggs, Malik Harrison, Jonathan Jordan, Lisa McGriff, Keith McCoy, Olivia Porter, Tish Powell, Ashea Price, Keisha Shelton, James Suttle, Marvi Thomas, Joe Wilson, and little Miss Paris Outlaw of South Bend. Executive Co-Coordinators were Shelese Douglas and Camille Horne, and Assistant Co-Coordinators were Chelsea Latimer and Monique White. The Emcees for the evening were Jocelyn Allen and Chelsea Latimer. Stores which participated included: The Enchanted Cottage, Hudson's, Jeans West, J. Riggins, Louie's Tux, Maurice's, 9-West, Richman Brothers, She's Got the Look, Siefert's and Susie's. Sponsers of the show were Irish Gardens, Jay Ganger, Robert Lee Salon, Wistalls Barber Shop, Great Wall, Palace, Patricia, and Christina Party Company. 
-
--
-

-------"""""'--------------~---------------------~ ~~ 
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 25, 1991 
Blues' dynamic duo keys rise to top of standings 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -You might Hull, who's second in the call Brett Hull and Adam Oates league in scoring behind Wayne the NHL's most valuable duo. Gretzky of the Los Angeles 
Both are piling up MVP cre­Kings with 101 points, appears dentials for the St. Louis Blues, to be the front-runner for who have a chance to finish league MVP. The son of Hall of atop the league standings for Farner Bobby Hull has shown the first time in franchise his­that last year's 72-goal season tory. A vote for either Hull or was no fluke, and he's become 
Oates as the Hart Trophy win­one of the top drawing cards in ner and no one could complain. the league. But which one to pick? Hull, Hull had to sit out the All-Star 
who leads the league with 68 game, where he was the top goals? Or Oates, who leads the vote-getter, with a sprained left league with an average of more ankle. Since then he's become than two points per game and the fifth player in league his­is zeroing in on his second tory to get 50 goals in 50 or straight 100-point season de­fewer games and hasn't cooled 
spite missing 19 games with a off a bit. 
stomach muscle injury? 

"It's like asking a father Going into Sunday night's which son he likes the best," game at Chicago, Hull had 22 Blues coach Brian Sutter said goals and 14 assists since the after the Hull and Oates show break and had an 11-game combined for nine points in a 7-goal-scoring streak. He's ac­2 victory over the New York tually scored in-his last 13 Islanders on Thursday night. games, but missed two games 
due to the injury and the NHL 
For an encore, HQll got his counts only consecutive game third hat trick of the season streaks. and Oates had a goal and three For a pure goal-scorer, he's assists to turn a battle against also more than willing to share Boston for first overall in the the puck. NHL standings into a 9-2 rout ''I'm certainly not a hog, I Saturday night. know that," Hull said after his 
"One scores, one sets them goal and four assists Thursday up," Blues goaltender Curtis night. ''I'd like to think of my­Joseph said. "What a team." self as a well-rounded player. 
Together, they've pulled the I'll go out with anyone and pass Blues to new heights. St. Louis the puck. It's just a matter of it has won 12 of its last 14 games going in more lately." and Hull and Oates have com­But Oates, who has assisted bined for an amazing 80 points on 31 of Hull's goals, could in the 15 games since the All­steal some votes from his line­
-
Star break. mate. 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Ron Sutter had a goal and an assist as Philadelphia defeated the New York Islanders for the second straight night, this time 4-3, to extend their winning streak to four. 
Philadelphia beat the Islanders 5-3 Saturday night at the Nassau Coliseum. The vic­tory lifted Philadelphia one point ahead of Pittsburgh into second place in the Patrick Division and also gave the Flyers 31 wins, one more than they had the entire 1989-90 season. 
Whalers 5, Sabres 5, tie BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -Dave Andreychuk's second goal of the game, at 17:07 of the third period, lifted Buffalo into a tie with Hartford. 
The tie extended Buffalo's winless streak on home ice to nine games. In that stretch, the Sabres have four ties. The last time Buffalo won on home ice was on Jan. 22, when they de­feated the Boston Bruins 6-4. 
Besides getting two goals, Andreychuk had one assist while linemate Dale Hawerchuk picked up three assists. Uwe Krupp, Darrin Shannon and Alexander Mogilny scored the other 
Buffalo goals. For Hartford, Rob Brown had two goals and an assist. Sylvain Cote, Mike Tomlak and Jim McKenzie scored. 
Oilers 6, Nordiques 3 
EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) ­Adam Graves scored twice in the third period for his second consecutive two-goal game as Edmonton rallied to beat Quebec. 
Graves, who had only two goals heading into the weekend, scored his fifth of the season from his knees inside the Quebec crease and added his sixth on a wrist shot less than three minutes later. 
The Observer accep)s classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

I NOTICES  FOR RENT  "2 1 -way airline tickets to San Francisco, Feb. 27. $1 00 684-7203."  CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition:  Photography for Formals· Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539.  I heard that guys who drive metallic blue Pulsars get lots-a-chicks ... Did you get any this weekend?  
The Coffee House  
TYPING AVAILABLE  GRAD. WEEKEND  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Bring your books and come  •• Spring Break Money ••  
287-4082  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  study, or just come socialize.  Notre Dame Fed Credit Union  THE CANCUN COUNTDOWN  
219-291-7153.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993.  Open daily 4pm-3am.  No Co-Signer Necessary  BEGINS... only 11 days...  
NY TIMES, used and new books  Office near campus.  •• See Our Ad ••  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  3 Bedroom Homes.  
corner of ND ave. & Howard  Walk to campus.  CLUB .23  I NEED A RIDE TO MN FOR  
10-5:30 everyday  232-3616  HEARSE, 1975 OLDSMOBILE  SPRING BREAK. I WILL HELP  For Sale:  
EXCELLENT CONDITION  Daily Specials. New addition:  PAY GAS AND TOLLS. PLEASE  14 ct gold art deco ring, very large  
SPRING BREAK!!I $136.00  Move Off Campus in '91-'92.  BEST OFFER -CALL PAUL IN  The Coffee House  CALL JENNIE X4831  garnet, 3 small diamonds.  
ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE  3 great houses avail. Sign  CHICAGO 312-235-6959  Bring your books and come  $500 or best offer.  
GREYHOUND GOES.  lease before break and get  study, or just come socialize.  Airline Ticket for Sale  Erin Smith, 287-2587  
RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541  discount. Call now 288-5653.  ncms 1·  Open daily 4pm-3am.  to Corpus Christi, TX (Next to South Padre)  
RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL  FLORIDA KEYSI  i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for  for Spring Break  
QUALITY. CALL 272-5667.  HOUSE RENTALS  BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a  REAL CHEAP  To all who got busted this weekend  
Near Key West and beaches  BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  great rider.  Call x2090  at the Club and Bridget's ...  
TYPING term  Call Rich 288-5428  BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING  Ask for Rob  Sorry ... just remember, if the fine is  
papers/reports/letters/resumes.  REALLY steep, you can always  
Pick up & delivery available. 277­ Attention; N.D. Students  Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm  SEARCHING FOR A CAREER?  Kirby ...  borrow up to $500 without a co­ 
5134 Cathy  FOR RENT-8 ROOM  7:30pm  We can help!  Thanks for Ed ... if Trish should call  signer from the Notre Dame Credit  
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOUSE,  Quality resume and  and ask to borrow "him" for the  Union-and the best part is you  
LOST/FOUND  CONVENIENT TO DOWNTOWN, NOTRE DAME, MEMORIAL  Wed. Feb. 27, 1991 7:30pm  cover letter duplication. Matching envelopes too.  evening, I'll be sure to help her out!  can pay it back over the summer and your parents will NEVER  

 HOSPITAL, BUS LAW  Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm  THE COPY SHOP  Sea Monkey Conspiracy  know!!!  
FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in  STUDENTS. FOR FURTHER  LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER  
the snow near P.E. Call x4530.  INFO,  Show your support and buy tickets  OPEN EVERYDAY!!!  is looking for a new singer or  
CALL 232-4412 BETWEEN  from the student boxers Ill  singer/guitarist willing to begin  Congrats on making the Zahm  
LOST:  9AM -10PM.  SPRING BREAK SPECIAL  immediately. Please call Thorn  lacrosse team, J.P.  
A 35mm camera was left hanging  FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,MI to  SAVE SAVE SAVE!!  x3334 or Kevin x3347  Personally, I think the motivation  
on the coat rack in Room 101 of  FREEDOM! Rent the best houses.  Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/B,return 3/17,  CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF  might have been in the phrase  
Galvin Life Sciences on Sat. the  Prime locations. 233­ must be female, VERY CHEAP!  FUN AND SUNil  "and there will be lots of babes."  
16th-during JPW weekend. If you  9947.  x4859  SUN SPLASH TOURS  
have any info. , please please call: Tim #1151 FOUND: WRISTWATCH ON FEB.  ..__FO_RSA_L_E___,)  I PERSONAlS  1-800-426-771 0. Need ride to NJ. Sprg brk.  ***SENIOR FORMAL 1991*** (April 19-21 in Chicago) Sign up for rooms, tables, flowers,  118 Stanford is 0 for 2 ... wanna play again guys?  
14 IN FRONT OF BREEN­ IS IS TRUE...JEEPS FOR $44  will pay$$$.  tuxedos, & activities  
- PHILIPS. CALL 277-5912 OR 239­6886 (Romance Languages)  THROUGH THE U.S GOV'T? CALL FOR FACTS  CLUB 23  Kevin x4043  March 5+6 from 6-9 PM in  Brian-have a good week-see you on Friday if I live that long-JC  
504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840  Daily Specials. New addition:  To my little sea nymph:  Theodore's  
WANTED  FOR SALE  The Coffee House Bring your books and come  Thank you for an awesome weekend. I had a great time both  March 7 from 6-9 PM in LeMans  
Macintosh Plus with two BOOK disk  study, or just come socialize.  nights (Saturday morning was  
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  drives and word processing  Open daily 4pm-3am.  pretty cool, too.) I hope you enjoy  
READING BOOKS AT HOME.  software. Call Alison at 283-4011.  the company of your new sea  NOW LEASING  
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  companions, B and B.  LAFAYETIE SQUARE  
CD FOR SALE  CLUB 23  Love,  AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE!  TOWNHOMES  
- I NEED ride to Boston Will split gas & driving  Double CD of "EAGLES LJVE"­Excellent condition except for  Daily Specials. New addition:  The little boy from M-land P.S. I love you  AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE!  4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS  
March 7, 8, or 9  2nd CD which skips a few times.  The Coffee House  Monica,  AVAILABLE  
Derek x1373  BEST OFFER. Call NOW!!  Bring your books and come  Here's the personal you've been  Will be held Thursday and Friday of  
x2051.  study, or just come socialize.  searching for. I am looking forward  this week! Look for more  AMENITIES INCLUDE:  
RIDE to Springfield, IL or area  Open daily 4pm-3am.  to working UNDER you next year.  information here and in  -WASHER AND DRYER  
for SB. Will share driving & $$.  PLEASE BUY ME! I AM NEW  One request: break me in gently,  "Of Interest" section. Call234-1048  -SECURITY SYSTEM  
- Aimeex4112.  FULL-LENGTH SILVER FOX FUR COAT MEDIUM. PLEASE CALL  since I am such a delicate, fragile creature.  Going to Syr, NY 4 break? Need  -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR  
I need a ride to BALTIMORE  255-4139.  CLUB 23  Love, Paul.  plane tix cheap? Call x3623  -PATIOS  
WASH DC area for Spring  
Break ~Emily x4097  GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1  Daily Specials. New addition:  2 people need a ride to  Evelyn Diaz, Heather Salsich, Jen  ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS  
(U repair). Delinquent tax property.  The Coffee House  Minneapolis area over  Eiben,  LEFT!!!/!!!  
BE ON T.V. many needed for  Repossessions. Your area (1) 805  Bring your books and come  Spring Break. Call X4900  "The more trash I see, the happier I  Call For More Info Now  
commercials. Now hiring all ages.  962-8000.  study, or just come socialize.  am."  232-8256  
For casting info. Call  Ext. GH-9834 for current repo  Open daily 4pm-3am.  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  "There's only ONE WAY"  
(615) 799-7111 Ext. T-695.  list.  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  Mardi Gras Mambo 1991  

Scoreboard page 15 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
How the Aaaodatad Pr,..a' Top 25 t&aml farad thlo weal<: WALES CONFERENCE
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
1. UNLV (25-0) beat Long Beach State 122-75; beat Pacific U. 80-59; beat UC Irvine 114-86. at No. Patrick Diviaion
Allanite Dlvlalon 
15 New Mexico State, Monday. w L T Pia GF GA Home Away Dlv
w L Pet. GB Boston 40 14 .741
2. 
Ohio State (24-1) beat llllnolo 73-64; beat Minnesota 63-62; vs. Michigan State, Sunday, March 3. NY Rangers 32 22 10 74 240 200 19-9-5 13-13-5 12-9-4 

3. 
Arkansas (27-2) beat Southern Mathodlot 79-70; beat Texas A&M 111-72; vs. Baylor, Tuesday. Philadelphia 24 .547 10 112 Philadelphia 31 27 7 69 217 203 17-12-5 14-15-2 11-12-6

29 NawYorl< 24 31 .438 16 112

4. 
Indiana (23-4) loat to Iowa. 80-711, OT; beat Michigan 112-711; at Michigan State, Thursday. Plnsburgh 32 27 4 68 274 239 21-11-1 11-16-3 15-12-1 

5. 
Syracuaa (24-<4) beat Florida State 88-711; loat to No. 18 St. John's 77-72; beat No. 22 PlnBburgh Washington 33 .400 18 112 New Jersey 26 26 11 63 219 209 18-8-7 8-18-4 10-13-5


22

89-88; at Villanova, Tu...day. New Jersey 17 .315 Washington 26 31 4 60 203 217 16-11-3 12-20-1 15-11-2
37 23

8. North Carolina (21-4) beat C~adal 118-50; beat Clemson 73-57; at Georgia Tech, Thursday. Miami 38 .298 24 NY Islanders 21 35 8 50 187 238 12·16-5 9-19-3 9-15-4
16 

7. 
OLlie (23-8) beat North Carolina Stale 72-65; lost to No.9 Arizona 103-98, 20T; va. Clemson, Adame Divialon Wad~ay. Centra! Dlvlalon x-Boston 36 20 8 80 238 215 21-7-3 15-13-5 15-7-3 

8. 
Kansas (20-5) loat to Colorado 711-71; beat Oklahoma 109-87; va. Iowa State, Tuesday. Chicago 39 14 .738 x-Monlreal 32 24 ·a 72 218 200 19-11-3 13-13-5 12·10-4 

9. 
Arizona (22-5) beat California 1CXHI3; beat No.7 Duke 103-98, 20T; va. Stanford, Tuesday. Detroit 37 19 .673 Hartford 26 28 7 63 189 208 16-13-3 12-15-4 9-11-4

10. 
Utah (25-2) beat Colorado State 87-58; at Brigham Young, Saturday, March 3. Milwaukee 34 21 Buffalo 23 25 15 61 220 220 11-11-10 12-14-5 7-10-7

.618 6 


11. 
Southern Mlululppl (20-4) beat Texas-Pan American 88-77; lost to Clndnnatl 86-72; at Florida Atlanta 30 24 91/2 Quebec 12 40 11 35 180 264 6-18-7 6-22-4 6-11-6


31/2
.556

Stale, Tuesday. 
Indiana 25 28 .472 14 
12. 
Kentucky (20-8) la.t to Vanderbl~ 118-87; beat Florida 90-74; vs. Alabama. Tueoday. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE

Cleveland 19 36 .345 21 

13. 
East Tenn,..aae State (24-4) beat Wat1tarn Carolina 102-78; lost to Marshall107-103, OT; va. Norrie Diviaion


Charlone 16 37 .302 23
VMI. Monday. W L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv 
14. 
Nebraska (23-5) beat Northam Illinois 82-73; lost to Missouri 91-71; beat Kansas State 85-78; at x-SI. Louis 38 17 7 83 251 195 20-6-5 18-11-2 14-7-2 No. 18 Oklahoma Slate, Wednesday. x-Chlcago 37 20 6 80 208 165 20-7-3 17-13-3 14-6-3

WESTERN CONFERENCE 

15. 
New Mexico Stale (21-3) beat Utah Stale 83-75;beal San Jose Slate 73-67. vs. No.1 UNLV. Detron 26 31 B 60 224 243 21-11-0 5-20-8 11-12-3


Mldwaal Dlv!alon Monday. Mlnneoola 21 32 11 53 203 219 13-14-5 8-18-6 7-13-4
w L Pel. GB

18. Oklahoma Stale (20-5) beat Kansas State 71H15; beat Colorado 79-67; va. No. 14 Nebraska, Toronto 17 39 7 41 164 282 11-20-2 6-19-5 7-15-2
Utah 35 17 .673Wednesday. Smythe Divlalon
San Antonio 33 17 .660 1
17. 
UCLA (20-7) beat Oregon 100-83; beat Oregon Stale 87-58. at Washington State, Thuf!lday. Los Angeles 36 20 7 79 286 202 19-8-4 17-12-3 13-7-4

Houston 31 23 .574 5 

18. 
St. John'o (19-8) beat No.7 Syracuse 77-72; beat Notre Dame 57-55. vs. No. 25 Georgetown at Calgary 34 21 7 75 285 202 19-7-2 15-14-5 12-6-3


Dallas 20 32 .385 15Madl1100 Square Garden, Monday. Edmonton 29 29 4 62 213 209 17-11-2 12-18-2 10-11-2
Minnesota 17 36 .321 18 112 
19. 
LSU (19-7) beat Mloalulppl89-78; beat Tennasaee 119-87; at Florida, Wad~day. Winnipeg 22 33 11 55 220 234 14-15-5 8-18-6 8-8-6

Orlando 17 36 .321 18 1/2

20. 
Virginia (19·9) Iosito Georgia Tech 73-60; Iosito North Carolina Stale 83·76; va. Towaon Stale, Denver 38 .283 20 112 Vancouver 22 36 7 51 198 253 13-14-4 9-22·3 7-18-1

15 Monday. x-cllnchad playoff berth 

21. 
Mloslsslppl State (18-7) beat Florida 81-67; Iosito Alabama 97·72; vs. Auburn. Wednesday. 

Pacific Dlvialon 

22. 
PlnBburgh (19-11) beat No. 25 Georgetown 78-65; Iosito No. 5 Syracuse 89-68; at Boston Saturday'• Gemea


Portland 44 1 0 .815 Monday·a Gamea Cohga, T-day. Buffalo 5, Hartford 4 
LA Laker& 40 14 .741 4 Toronto at Detroit. 7:35p.m.
23. 
Princelon (20-2) beat Colurrbla 58-33; beat Cornell 88-53. vs. Pennsylvania, Tuesday. Philadelphia 5, N.Y. Islanders 3 

Phoenix 35 18 .660 81/2 Washington at New Jersey, 7:45p.m.

24. 
Seton Hall (18-7) beat Niagara 71H11; beat Villanova 90-73; at Connecticut, Wednesday. Calgary 1 0, Quebec 8 

Golden State 29 24 .547 14 112 Calgary at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 

25. 
Georgetown (16-9) loallo No. 22 Plnoburgh 78-65; beat Connecticut71-57; va. No. 18 St. John's Toronto 3, Montreal3, lie 


Seanla 24 28 .462 19 
at Madloon Square Garden, Monday. Vancouver 5, Detroit 2 
LA Clippers 18 35 .340 25112 Sacramento 15 37 .288 28 Chicago 3, Minnesota 3, tie St. Louis 9, Boston 2 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 Sunday'a Gamea 
Late Games Not Included Philadelphia 103, New Jemey 90 
Saturday'• Gamea 
New Vorl< 5, New Jersey 2 How the Associated Pretia' Top 25 women's teams fared lhls weal<: Plnsburgh 5, Washington 5, tie 
New York 104, Washington 101
1. 
Virginia (28-1) beat Maryland 1 t t-74; beat No.7 North Carolina Stale 95-78. Los Angeles 5, Winnipeg 3

Atlanta 122, Dallas 107

2. 
Penn State (24-1) beat West Virginia 77-70. Hartford 5, Buffalo 6, lie

Chicago 129, Charlone 108

3. 
Georgia (24-2) beat Alabama 83-<4 7; beat No. 5 Auburn 70-86. Philadelphia 4, N.Y. Islanders 3 

Milwaukee 118, Cleveland 103

4. 
TenniiiBee (23-<4) beat MafTllhlo Stale 93-46; beat No. 15 Texas 64-55. Quebec at Edmonton, (n) 

Denver 150, Golden State 145

5. 
Auburn (23-4) beat Alabama State 95-54; lost to No. 3 Georgia 70-68. St. Louis at Chicago, (n) 


Phoenix 120, Saanle 1108. Purdue (23-2) beat Wisconsin 93-53. beat No. 18 Northwestern 93-78. 
7. 
North Carolina State (22-5) at Wai<.e Forest 89-67; lost to No. 1 Virginia 95-78. 

8. 
WBStarn Kentucky (23-2) beat Morehead Stale 94-73; beat Tennasaee Tach, 95-88, 20T; Iosito 


Sunday'a Gamea 
Alabama-Birmingham 76-68. BENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
Late Games Not Included
9. 
Atkansaa (23-3) beat Southern Methodist 77-88; beat Texas A&M 91-88. 


Indiana 115, Boston 109 
10. 
Washington (20-3) beat Waahlngton Stale 69-58. 

LA Lakem 102, Detroit 98, OT 
11. Stanford (21-4) beat Arizona State109-61; beat Arizona 116-79. 
Houston 100, Minnesota 91 
Afternoon Saaalon
12. LSU (20-7) beat Mc:NMae Stale 92-82; Iosito No. 16 Mlssloslppl75-73; Iosito Florida 91-67. 
New York 108, Miami 92 QUARTER ANALS--Ftb£uarv 2113. Rutgers (21-4) beat St. Bonaventura 73-70; lost to Syracuse 54-52. 
Oriando 120, Sacramento 90 
14. 
Connecticut (22-4) beat Northeastern 86-55; lost to No. 19 Providence 91-89. 


LA Clippers 129, Denver 112
15. 
Texas (17-7) la.llo No.4 Tennesaae 64-55. 130 Pou!!d Dlyjalon

San Antonio at Portland, (n)
18. Mlnlosippl (19-7) beat No. 12 LSU 75-73; Iosito Vanderbl~ 69-<46. Pai"Tha Silent AsBa&in" Owens (Grace) unen. dec. Joe ·organized Mayhem" Russo (Sarin) 
Utah at Seanla, (n) 
t7. UNLV (22·5) beat UC Santa Barbara 88-85, OT; beat UC Irvine 78-57. Timothy "Wallin" Phelan (Zahm) unan. dec. Brian "Lil' Mac· Bnophy (Stanford) tB. Northwestern (17-7) beat Illinois 91-82; Iosito No.6 Purdue 93-78. 
19. 
Providence (22-4) beat Syracuse 106-60; beat No. 14 Connecticul91-89. 135 Pou!!d Pivtaion

Monday'a Gamea

20. 
Stephen F. Austin (22-3) beat Louisiana Tech 77-74; beat North Texas, 89-56. beat Texas-


Mike "The Most Wanted" Jennings (oH-cafTllus) Ref. Slops Contest (1 :12, 2nd Round) Humerto "EI 
Sacramento at Atlanta, 7:30p.m.
Arlington 97-77. 
Capitan" Arriola (Morrissey)
LA Lakers at Phlladephia, 7:30 p.rn
21. Iowa (16-7) beat Mlnnesoca 70-46. Mlck "The Quag· Meyer (off-cafTllUB) unan. dec. Edward "The lny Blny Mexican• Vasquez (Fianner) 
Charione at Phoenix, 9:30p.m.
22. Notre Dame (20-5) baal St. Louia 87-47; b..l Old Dominion 70-58. 
23. Long Beach State (17-7) beat Hawaii 82-51; beat Hawaii 73-83. 
140 Pound Piy!aion 
24. Clemson (18-9) beat Duke 67-59; Iosito North Carolina 58-54. 
Tueaday'a Gamee Pate "Do ya Wanna Dartca" Bonini (off·cafTlluS) splh dec. Paul "Manslayer' Eckles (Fisher) 25. Oklahoma State (22-5) beat Kan~~a& State 79-61; Iosito Colorado 65-63. 
Derek "The Dangerous· Bartlan (Grace) splh dec. John "The Shadow" Villa (Dillon)Detroit at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. 
Milwaukee at Miami, 7:30p.m. Indiana at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. 
145 Pound Divtaion Washington at New York, 7:30p.m. Bobby "Bad Boy" Burke (oH-caJT'4)us) unan. dec. Diego "Bravo• Bellda (off·C&fTllUI)
NCAA CONFERENCE STANDINGS 
Dallas at Minnesoca. 6 p.m. Eric "The Mosquho" Mllho (Stanford) unan. dec. Colin "Night Traln"Hanlay (off-c&rT'pUs) Boston at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Portland at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. 150 Pound Dlv!al0n 
AUanllc co..t Conlerence Houston at Denver, 9 p.m. Lou "The Sldllan Pavilion· Hall (Sarin) Ref. Slops Contest (1 :09, 3rd Round) Eric "The ENmlnator• Confarance AIIGamea LA Clippers at Seanla, 10 p.m. Delau (Fiannar)w L Pet. w L Mld-alern Colleglata Conference Orlando at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Michael "Klss My" Butler (Fianner) unan. dec. Anthony "The Man with a Vandana· Cornena (Dillon) North Carolina 9 3 .750 21 4 Conference AIIGamaa Duke 9 3 .750 23 6 w L Pel. w L 155 Pound Piv!a10n
N.C. State 5 .583 16 8 Xavier, Ohio 10 3 .769 17 9
.. TRANSACTIONS "Desert Stomnln" Norman Conley (off-cafTllus) split dec. Phil "The Thrllr Coughlin (Stanford) 
Wal<.aForeet I 6 .538 16 9 Butler 8 4 .667 16 9 Colin ·southern Comfort" Mullaney (Grace) Rat. Stops Contest (:30, 3rd Round) Tom "Slick" Georgia Tech 6 6 .500 16 g Dayton 8 5 .615 13 12 McDonald (Fiannar) 
Virginia 6 7 .462 19 9 St. Louis 7 6 .538 15 13 BASEBALL z-Maryland 4 8 .333 15 11 Evansville 7 6 .538 13 12 American League Clemson 1 11 .083 10 15 Marquene 6 6 .500 10 16 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Declared Carlos 1§0 Pound Div!a10n 
Martinez, first baseman, a free agent after he Brad "Hard Knocks" Leshnok (Cavanaugh) unan. dec. Brian "The Inferno• Salerno (Cavanaugh) Loyola, Ill. 1 10 .091 7 17 refused to accept an outright assignment to John "Sleepy Boy" Sordl (Fiannar) unan. dec. John "Preny Boy" Stoj (Stanford) Big Eaal Conference Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. Conference AllGam.. PaciHc-10 Conference KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms whh 165 Pound Plv!aloD w L Pel. w L Conference AfiGamea Kevin Appler, pitcher, and Mike Macfarlane. Tim •Express· Trainor (Fiannar) Rat. Stopa Contest (1 :28, 2nd Round) Tom "Fandago· Felton (oH­
Syracuse 10 4 .714 24 4 w L Pet. w L catcher, on one-year contracts. C8fTllUB) St. John's II 6 .600 19 6 Arizona 10 3 .769 22 5 MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms with Ed "0on1 Glmme No" Schmln (Zahm) unan. dec. Sheldon "Rat" Fink (Stanford) Seton Hall 8 8 .571 18 7 UCLA 8 6 .571 20 7 Chris George, phcher, on a ona-yaar contract. Plnsburgh 8 6 .571 111 9 Washington St. 8 6 .571 16 8 MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with 170 PouDd Dlv!aloo Georgetown 8 6 .571 16 9 Arizona St. 7 7 .500 16 8 Lenny Webster, catcher, to a one-year contract Mark "Ugly Man" Manning (Fianner) spill dec. Michael "Meal Puppet" Brannan (St. Ed's) 
Connecticut 7 7 .500 16 9 Southern Cal 7 7 .500 16 8 National League Villanova 7 7 .500 14 11 Oregon St. 7 7 .500 13 11 PITISBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to terms with 185 Pound Pivtaiop Providence 6 9 .400 15 11 Oregon 7 7 .500 12 12 Randy Tomlin and Vicente Palacios, pitchers, on Sean "The Irish PlpellnH" Glboy (Stanford) splh dec. Martin "Go Long· Scruggs (Grace) 
Boston College 1 13 .071 11 16 Stanford 7 8 .467 14 11 one-year contracts. Kevin "Return of the Hanky Tonk Man" Max (off-cafTllUI) Ref. Stopa Conteol (1 :28, 3rd round) • California 7 g .438 11 14 Perilous• Paul Amann (Keenan) Big Eight Conference Waehington 3 11 .214 12 12 BASKETBALL Conference AIIGamea National Baakelbaff Aaaociallon 
z-lnellgble for post-season play Detroit 2 9 .182 9 15 
Evening Saaalon w L Pet. w L Soulheaalam Conference GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Signed Mario QUABTEBANALS--Feb£uary 24 Kanaaa g 3 .750 20 5 Conference AIIGamea Ella, guard, to a 1 0-day contract. Oklahoma St. 9 3 .750 20 5 w L Pel. w L Coinllnenlal Baakelbaff Aaaoclaallon 
130 Pound Piv!aion
Nebraaka 8 4 .667 23 5 z-Kentucky 12 4 .750 20 6 ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Terry Stotts, Draw "Chops" Dougheny (DillOn) Ref. Stops Contest (:28, 3rd round) Michael "The Dog"Swopa ( z-Miosourl 6 6 .500 14 10 LSU 12 4 .750 Ill 7 assistant coadh-forward, to a player contract. 
Carroll)Colorado 5 7 .417 15 10 Mlssloslppi St. 11 5 .688 18 7 Brian "Midnight Stoker' Stokes (oH-cafTllUB) unan. dec. Marty "The Hashman• Hamish (oH­Iowa St. 5 7 .417 11 17 Alabama 11 5 .688 17 8 HOCKEY cafTllus)

Oklahoma 4 .333 12 Vandarbl~ 10 .625 16 10 National Hockey Laague Kansas St. 2 10 .167 12 13 Georgia 7 9 .438 14 11 NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Sent Paul Guay, right 8 15 6 
135 Pound Plylalop
z-lnallgble for post-oeason play Florida 7 II .438 11 14 wing, to Capital District of the American Hockey Marl< ·Tuscalusa• nemay (Stanford) unan. dec. Giovanni "Gucer DICenso (Fiannar)
Auburn 5 11 .313 12 13 League. Big Ten Conference Tennasaee 3 13 .188 9 18 NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Brian 
Jeff "The Disturber' Gerber (Dillon) unan. dec. Tim "Waylon" Jennings (off-cafTllU&) 
Conference AIIGamaa Mississippi 2 14 .125 8 17 McReynolds, canter, to Binghamton of American 140 Poupd Plyla!0p
w L Pel. w L z-lnellgble for post-season play Hockey League. Ohio St. 14 1 .933 24 1 PHILADELPHIA FLYERS-Reassigned Craig Joseph "Jonln' Joe• Carrigan (Grace) unan. dec. Chris ·conan the Barbarian· Leavy (Pangborn) Indiana 11 3 .788 23 4 Soulh-al Conference Fisher, canter, to Hershey of the American Hockey John "All Man" Manfrady (oH·cafTllUB) unan. dec. Casey •Jones· PflaHer (Stanford) 
z-llllnola Q 5 .643 19 8 Conference AfiGamaa League. Michigan St. g 5 .643 16 8 w L Pet. w L ST. LOUIS BLUES-Announced the retirement 145 Pound Piylaion 
Wlsconoln 7 7 .500 13 11 Arkansas 14 0 1.000 27 2 of Paul Maclean, lorward, to take a scouting job David "Leathertace· Dauenhauer (Grace) unan. dec. Brian "The Terror' Terrien (St. Ed's) Iowa 7 8 .467 18 9 Texas 12 2 .857 18 6 ~hlhetearn Man "Fulla" Mullarkey (oH-cafTllUB) spih dec. Kevin "Stllborn· Mewborn (Fianner) Michigan 6 II .400 13 12 Houston 8 6 .571 16 9 WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Recalled Jim 
Purdue 5 9 .357 13 11 TCU 7 7 .500 16 9 Hrivnak, goahender, from Baltimore of the 150 Pound Dlv!aion MinnBSota 3 10 .231 10 13 Rica 7 7 .500 13 12 American Hockey League. Jody "The Anhude" Amnana (Fiannar) unan. dec. Fred "Free-Fallin" Sharkey (Stanford) Nonh-tarn 0 14 .000 5 19 SMU 6 9 .400 11 15 Gerry "Pop Him and Drop Him" Mlmlck (Fianner) unan. dec. Steve "Chocolate E" Clar (Morrilsey) z-inellgble lor post-season play Baylor 4 10 .286 12 12 SOCCER Texas Tech 4 11 .287 8 20 U.S. SOCCER FEDERATION-Announced the 
155 Pound Piy!alon Big Waal Conference Texas A&M 2 12 .143 7 18 resignation of Bob Ganslar, national team coach, 
Kevin "The Sw&fTll Fox" Sullivan (Stanford) splh dec. G.P. "The Polish Kellbasa" Schmldka Conference AIIGamea and named him national director of coaching and (Fiannar)w playar development. Named John Kowaloklinlerim 
L Pel. w L Shane "The Hnman· Hitzeman (Grace) Rat. Stops Contest (1 :13, 2nd round) Jack "Nippln' at Your UNLV 16 0 1.000 25 0 coach. 
lndependenla Nose" Frost (Fianner) New Max. St. 13 2 .867 21 3 
w L Pet.
PacNic U. g 7 .583 13 12 COLLEGE 
DePaul 17 8 .680 160 Pound Piv!•ion
Utah St. 8 8 .500 11 14 JERSEY CITY STATE-Named Pal Cola­
WrlghtSt 16 8 .667 John "Eight Ball" Rapchlnskl (Grace) unan. dec. Kevin "$6.99 for a• Casey (Zahm)
Fullerton St. 7 10 .412 14 12 Belmonte, 110llayball and softball coach. 
Wls.-MIIwaukee14 10 .583 Chris ·s-Lou· Toner (Carroll) splh dec. Steve "Sticky" Kubicki (Pangborn)
UC Santa Brtl. 6 10 .375 11 14 NEW ORLEANS-Signed Tim Floyd, basketball FrBSno St. 6 10 .375 11 14 coadh, to a six-year contract extension through the 
s. Utah 15 11 .577 Long Bech St. 6 10 .375 10 15 2000-2001 season.
Mo.-Kansas City 14 13 .519 
San Joaa St. 5 11 .313 7 18 Youngstown St. 11 15 .423 WRIGHT STATE-Announoed h will join the Mid­165 Pound Pivta10p UC Irvine 4 12 .250 9 19 Continent Conference, affective July 1. Jim "Praying Mantle" Hawkins (Cavanaugh) splh dec. John "Sirollln'" Nolan (Fisher)
Brooklyn 11 16 .407 Notre Dame 11 17 .383 
Kerry "The Garden Weasel" Wale (Grace) Rat. Stopa Contest JaH "Solid" Oakley (Fianner) SE Louisiana 9 18 .333
Ivy League Conference AIIGamea 110 Pound PlvJal0p
Northridge St. 8 18 .308 Miami, Fla. 7 18 .280
w L Pet. w L Scoti"Tha Wild Irishman" Mulcahy (oH-carrpus) unan. dec. Chip "Maulln" Malin (Fianner)
Fla. lnlarnalnl 5 20 .200
Princeton 11 0 1.000 20 2 Garth "The Detonator" Beh~a (oll-carrpus) unan. dec. Jefl "The Butcher' Bai<.ar (Aiumn~
Chicago St. 4 21 .180
Yale 7 5 .583 13 11 Lberty 4 21 .160
Harvard 6 8 .500 9 15 185 Pound Plv!tion 
NE Illinois 2 23 .080
Cornall 5 7 .417 12 12 "Eightin'" Mke O'Nel (Eiannef) spih dec. Kevin "The Maimer• Kramer (Sorin)
Nicholls St. 2 24 .077
Brown 5 7 .417 10 14 Thomas "The Crusher" Sullivan (CarroN) splh dec. "Linla Joe• Parolln (St. Ed's)
U.S. lnternatnl 2 24 .077
Colurrbla 5 7 .417 7 17 PaM 4 7 .364 7 16 Dartmouth 4 8 .333 8 15 

,...--------------------------­
page 16 

Irish finish 11th at Volvo National Indoor tourney 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame 
men's tennis team, playing 
three top 10 teams in three 

consecutive days, grabbed an 
11th-place finish early Sunday 
morning at the National Indoor 

Team Championships held at 
the Louisville Tennis Club. 

After Wednesday's opening­round bashing of 20th-ranked Kansas, the Irish faced three­time defending national cham­pion Stanford, a team that had beaten the Irish 8-1 in a fall exhibition match. This time around the Cardinal faced a much-improved Notre Dame squad, but Stanford, playing without the services of third­ranked Jonathan Stark, held on for a 5-2 win, sending the Irish into the consolation bracket against Texas Christian. 
"I thought we showed some improvement," said Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss. "Mark Schmidt took his oppo­nent to a third set, and if he wins that, we come out of the singles tied at 3-3." 
Irish junior Dave DiLucia, ranked sixth in the nation, was in the midst of his torrid tear of tournament competition, beating 21st-ranked Alex O'Brien 4-6, 7-6, 6-3, avenging a fall season loss. Andy Zurcher, who missed action in the fall match with Stanford, beat Vimel Patel, 3-6, 7-5, 7-5, in the only other Notre Dame wins. 
Eighth-ranked Texas Christian, a loser to Miami, was the next Irish opponent and the second of the three top 10 teams that the Irish would play over the weekend. After a 3-3 tie in singles competition, two Irish doubles teams posted wins and wrapped up the 5-3 Notre Dame victory. 
The Irish got off to a quick start at number-three doubles, as Paul Anthony and Ryan Wenger combined for a 6-4, 7-5 win. Then the third-ranked team of DiLucia-Chuck Coleman, playing at number­one doubles, defeated TCU's fourth-ranked duo, 6-4, 6-7, 6­2 to upset the Frogs for the second straight year. Last March the Irish downed TCU in Texas, a win that helped to propel them into the national polls. 
In singles play, DiLucia stormed to an easy win over seventh-ranked Luis Huette, 6­3, 6-2, but the doubles teams of DiLucia-Coleman and Paul Anthony-Ryan Wenger put the finishing touches on the Irish win, with DiLucia-Coleman 
ousting TCU's fourth-ranked 
team of Tony Bujan-Luis 
Rouette, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2. 
With the win over TCU, the 
Irish had to face the seventh­
ranked California Golden Bears 
at 8 p.m. Saturday night. With 
a little bit of luck, the outcome 
would have been different than 
the final 5-3 California win. 
Notre Dame (8-5) had match point opportunities in two dif­ferent singles matches, but the Bears held on to take the five­hour battle for ninth place at the tournament. 
At number-one singles, DiLucia outlasted Norway's Bent Pedersen in a thriller, 7-6 (7-3), 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-3). 
"They had an incredibly high level of match intensity for such a prolonged time period," said Bayliss. 
Pedersen, who beat DiLucia at the Rolex Indoor Championships two weeks ago, found that nothing could phase DiLucia's singles game on this occasion, though. 
"Dave went undefeated against three of the best play­ers in the world," said Bayliss. 
In doubles action, however, California's number one team, ranked 11th nationally, upset the third-ranked combination of DiLucia-Coleman, 6-1, 6-3. 
At number-three singles, California's Carl Chang battled off four match points in a sec­ond set tiebreaker against Notre Dame's Will Forsyth to gain a 2-6, 7-6, 6-2 win. Ron Rosas also had two match-point situations at number-six singles before falling to Tommy Phanco 6-3, 5-7, 7-6. 
While the Irish fell short in a close match with the Bears, the tournament as a whole can be looked at in a few ways. 

"I'm awfully proud of the way our guys played. We proved ourselves to a lot of people." said Bayliss. "Everyone had at least one or two outstanding matches. But you can never be satisfied when you're as close as we were." 
With four of the five Irish losses on the season coming to the first, third, fourth, and sev­enth-ranked teams, Bayliss sees the team as headed in one of two directions. 

"I really believe that this will either let us realize how close we are to being one of the bet­ter teams in the nation, or it will make us become compla­cent. We've had a tendency to be complacent after nationally recognized performances," said Bayliss. "But it's a big step forward for us in terms of credibility." 


DISMAS HOUSE: 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, dismas house offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience with former prisoners. Together an environment of trust, friendship and hope can be ouilt to provide the confidence and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral member. 
Are you interested in living in the Dismas community next semester? 
Applications available at the Center for Social 
Concerns. See: 

Kathy Royer-239-7862 
Application deadline: 

Friday, March 8, 1991 

The Observer 

MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -With two tournament victories in the past two weeks, Ivan Lend! said he could find nothing to com­plain about Sunday after downing Michael Stich 7-5, 6-3 to win the $750,000 Volvo Indoor. 
''I'm very pleased. I hit the ball nice and clean. I didn't give him any free points and I made a lot of big shots when I needed them," said Lend!, the tourna­ment's top seed and the No. 3 player in the ATP rankings. 
Lend!, who defeated Stich in the quarterfinals last week in Philadelphia and is 4-0 lifetime against the German, said he was better this week than at the Memphis Racquet Club than in Philadelphia. 
"I played better this week, but if you win -that's what 
Monday, February 25, 1991 
counts," Lend! said after taking baseline and then broke and his 90th career tournament ti­took the first set when Stich tle. mis-hit a baseline backhand as 
Lend! controlled Stich with he attempted to return Lendl's precision groundstrokes and a strong forehand. powerful serve when needed as "I missed two easy balls," he dispatched him in 90 min­Stich said. "I just lost my con­utes to pick up the $99,000 centration." winner's check. Lend! broke through again in 
Stich, seeded seventh and the second game of the second ranked 25th, had not lost his set. serve in four previous matches. Stich fell behind 0-40 and The defending champion saved three break points. but earned $53,000 for his second­opened the door for Lend! place finish. again when he guided a fore­
Although unable to move to hand chip shot long. the net, Stich was able to stay Lend! then broke service and with Lend! through the first 11 went up 2-0 in the set when games. Stich, who saved two Stich sent an easy baseline break points in the fourth forehand long. game, _suffered his first break Lend! saved three break of service in Game 12. points in the set's seventh game 
Lend! reached set point on a and finally held serve with a backhand passing shot from the service winner. 

$$$ MONEY $$$ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
d You'll have all summer 
• 
Deferre Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


~  NOTREDAME  
~  FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  
239-6611  

Separate from the Universit 


Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 17 
•

Top seeds advance 1n Bengal Bouts 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR the ring with his opponent, nal. Wate, a champion at 160 Sports Writer freshman Casey Pfeiffer. pounds a year ago, TKOed Jeff Manfredy, who is used to fight­Oakley at 0:45 of the third 
When the final bell sounded ing in the low 130s, found him­round to move to the semis. on the first day of Bengal self in the 140-pound class in A rematch of last year's final Bouts, all seven defending this year's Bengals. at 127 pounds could occur be­champions remained standing, "l was apprehensive at first, tween Timothy Phelan and and several powerful chal­trying to figure out how to fight Brian Stoker, as both won lengers had emerged from this someone that much heavier unanimous decisions in their year's 82-man field. than me," said Manfredy, who first-round contests at 130 
One of these challengers was weighed in at 130 pounds. pounds. Scott Mulcahy, who reached "That's what I was thinking Defending 185-pound cham­last year's regional round in the about through the first two pion Kevin Max must be con­NCAA tournament while at rounds. But by the third round, sidered the favorite at that West Point. The 170-pounder I was much more confident." weight class this year after his defeated Chip Malin in a unani­The fifth-year architecture third-round TKO of Paul mous decision. Mulcahy had student used that confidence to Amann. Max will face Sean fought Malin before, and knew earn a unanimous decision over Gilboy on Wednesday. what to expect from the junior. Pfeiffer. and wiJI fight Joseph Jody Armetta, last year's 
"We have two totally different Carrigan in Wednesday's semi­champion at 154 pounds, styles of fighting," Mulcahy final. moved down to 150 pounds for said. "Chip's more of a brawler, The 165-pound class featured 1991 and defeated Fred who comes out and throws a lot three of Sunday's most impres­Sharkey in a unanimous first­of punches, while I'm more of a sive performances. Tim round decision. Armetta ap­boxer." Trainor, left out of last year's peared frustrated through most 
Mulcahy will fight another Bengal Bouts with a shoulder of the fight as Sharkey's brawler on Wednesday, as he separation, came back from techniques prevented him from faces off with Garth Behrje, first-round troubles to TKO landing many solid blows. who earned a unanimous deci­Tom Felton in the second Armetta, however, was able to sion over Jeff Baker. round. Trainor will face Ed win the decision, and will face 
On the other side of the 170-Schmitt in his semifinal bout. Gerry Mimick in his semifinal pound bracket are defending Jim Hawkins, who won a bout. champion Mike Trainor and Bengal Bouts belt at 162 On the other side of the 150­Mark Manning. Manning de­pounds last year, now fights in pound bracket, Lou Hall and feated Michael Brennan in his the 165-pound class. Hawkins Michael Butler each won a first round bout, while earned a difficult split decision unanimous decision, and will Trainor's first round match was over John Nolen, and his path face off in the semifinals. a walkover. to the finals will only get Semifinal bouts will be fought 
Two-time champion John tougher as he boxes the explo­at 7:30 Wednesday night at the Manfredy had a tough time in sive Kerry Wate in the semifi-Joyce A.C.C. 
Schulz's 68 wins Los Angeles Open 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ted and Davis Love lll finished an­birdie -on No. ll. Schulz, whose golf career has other shot back at 274. Lietzke shot a 71, including been mostly an uphill battle, Schulz, who needed two years three-putting No. 18, as he slid shot a 3-under-par 68 Sunday to earn a PGA Tour card then back into a tie for third. to win the Los Angeles Open by lost it after a disappointing Stadler, starting the round five one stroke. rookie season in 1987, was two shots off the pace, trimmed 
AftPr parring the final hole to shots behind Sluman at the four shots off par on the front finish the tournament with a turn, as Sluman went to 13-un­nine but cooled down the 12-under-par 272 total. Schulz der with nine holes remaining. stretch, including bogeying the watched as Jeff Sluman, in the But Sluman, beginning the final hole. Love shot a 70 to last threesome, missed an 8-day tied for the lead with share third place. foot try for birdie that would Lietzke, shot a 2-over-par 38 on Schulz's card featured rounds have forced a playoff. the back nine, including three of 69, 66, 69 and 68 as he won 
Sluman shot a closing 70 at bogeys. for the second time. His other Hiviera County Club. Schulz, steady if unspectacu­victory was in the 1989 Bruce Lietzke, Craig Stadler lar, had eight pars and one Southern Open. 
In the i"JcXTstation'"computcr. go to \\Ork. Yuu c,·cn gee a free rrtal "e·ve manaf.:ed to squeeze the most subscription to Ne)Cf\VORLD'"mag­possible computer mto the least azinc. to keep vuu up tu date. f>O"iblc space \Vc· \·c aJ,o ,queoed And ro makt.· our t'3'iL' cn.:n mnre the most poss1blc: t·omputer into the compelling. "e·ll send a free t'Ojl\ of least po~slblc price. rhc extraordinarY 'Jlrc:tdshect pro­
One lo" prtce include~ not onh gram. Lotu~ lmpro' Ia :'h'i.'i ,-,duel. 


The Observer/David lee (Above) Pat Owens (blue trunks) and Joe Russo compete in the 130­pound division of the 1991 Bengal Bouts. Owens won a unanimous decision. (Below) Tim Phaelin (blue trunks) lands a punch in his match with Brian Brophy in a 130-pound matchup. Phaelin scored .a unanimous decision. 

lJrcoming Events 
-

-
---~­
r-----------------~---------------­
page 18 The Observer Monday, February 25, 1991 
UNLV rips UC­
Irvine in tune-up 
for No. 15 Aggies 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Jerry Tarkanian took some time to reflect on the final home game for his seniors. 
"We'll never have one like this again, I know that," Tarkanian said, referring to senior stars such as Larry Johnson, Stacey 
· Augmon and Greg Anthony. 
Tarkanian's top-ranked Runnin' Rebels (25-0) closed out their home season Saturday night with a resounding 114-86 win over UC Irvine for their 36th consecutive victory. A crowd of nearly 20,000 stood and cheered for the Rebels as they coasted to another easy victory. 
But Tarkanian won't dwell on the past, not with a game Monday night at No. 15 New Mexico State. UNLV lost five games in last year's national championship season and one of the defeats was against the Aggies at Las Cruces. 
The Aggies (21-3 overall, 13-2 in the Big West) and Cal State­Fullerton are the only teams standing in the way of an unbeaten regular season for UNLV. 
The Rebels beat New Mexico State, 86-7 4, in Las Vegas on Feb. 16. But the game wasn't as close as the score indicated. The Rebels held the Aggies to a single basket in the first seven minutes, and that was on a goaltending call. 
Tarkanian fretted at the time that it might be a different story at Las Cruces, where the Aggies always play the Rebels tough. New Mexico State coach Neil McCarthy promised it would be. 
Against Irvine, Augmon scored 27 points and Johnson 
19. Anthony, who scored 11 points, had 16 assists to set a Big West career mark of 758, 14 more than the previous record. Anderson Hunt added 23 points. 
Saturday night's game with Irvine provided an emotional peak for Rebel fans, particu­larly pre-game ceremonies honoring six seniors, and again midway through the half when Augmon, Johnson and Anthony were pulled from the lineup. 
"This was a tough night for all 

~-­
of us," Tarkanian said. "You don't get kids like that very often. Most coaches never get 

AP Photo UNLV faces its last serious hurdle to an undefeated regular season tonight as it travels to Las Cruces to take on no. 15 New Mexico State. 
them. I'm just fortunate. You UNLV if the Rebels play up to get a group like that once in a their potential. lifetime." "Ohio State can't, Duke can't 
Coach Bill Mulligan, retiring either," Mulligan said. at the end of the season after The Rebels led 60-43 at half­11 years with the Anteaters, time, then went on a 35-7 run has seen once-in-a-lifetime early in the second half. UNLV's teams before. He was an assis­biggest lead was 103-55 with tant at Southern Cal at the start 8:51 remaining. of the UCLA dynasty. Tarkanian drew an intentional 
"Some of those players at technical foul by putting his six UCLA couldn't play with these seniors on the floor for the guys," Mulligan said. opening tip. Other seniors were 
He said he doesn't know of a Chris Jeter, Dave Rice and college team that can beat George Ackles. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Sophomore Calbert Chaney scored 30 points, matching a season high, as No. 4 Indiana beat Michigan 112-79 Sunday to keep its Big Ten title hopes alive. 
Damon Bailey, relegated to reserve status, scored 16 points, Eric Anderson had 15 and Pat Graham 14 as Indiana (23-4 overall, 11-3 Big Ten) reached the century mark for the sixth time this season de­spite playing its reserves for most of the final six minutes with the outcome clearly de­cided. 
Demitrius Calip scored 28 to lead Michigan (13-12, 6-8)and Eric Riley had 15. 
No. 9 Arizona 103, No. 7 Duke 96 20T 

TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) -Matt Muehlebach scored seven points during the second overtime period Sunday as No. 9 Arizona extended its nation­leading home winning streak to 61 games with a 103-96 victory over No. 7 Duke. 
Sean Rooks hit a spinning layup with 3.8 seconds left in regulation to pull Arizona (22­
5) into a 78-78 tie, and Chris Mills' 10-foot jumper with 13 seconds remaining in overtime allowed the Wildcats to tie it 88-88. Mills missed a 12-footer at the buzzer, and the teams 
Indiana routs Michigan to remain alive in Big 10 race 
played a second extra period. 
Grant Hill hit two free throws with 29 seconds left in overtime to put the Blue Devils (23-6) ahead 88-86. 
Badgers 79, Wildcats 76 

MADISON, Wis. (AP) ­Wisconsin coach Steve Yoder was fearful that his Badgers would be victim to the law of averages. Northwestern had lost 14 straight and had a week to prepare for Sunday's game at the UW Fieldhouse. 
"Northwestern has been playing well the last four or five games and just hasn't gotten the break to win a game," Yoder said after the Badgers rallied from nine points back in the second half for a 79-7 6 vic­tory. 
Patrick Tompkins scored 18 points, including a pair of free throws with 16 seconds left for the Badgers (13-11, 7-7), who benefitted from a controversial reversed call in the final seconds. 
Tim Locum added 16 points and John Ellenson 14 for Wisconsin. Charles Howell scored a game-high 20 points and Todd Leslie added 18 to pace Northwestern(S-19, 0-14). 
Willie Simms put the Badgers ahead to stay, 76-74, when he took a perfect baseline pass from Tompkins and connected with 57 seconds left. 

Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the INFORMATION DESK
I.Buy4-sess1ons at the regula7l I pnce and get 4 FREE • Ejuy 5 I 

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA?___J,
_________ 1 

*Deadline for applications is March 29* 
l'i-iiiiiiiiiiiiii~1~-­_.L_____ 
Ctbleago llair('utdlltJ ('«~J 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTUR.!: GRAPE AD. MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Daily9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11-5 







is accepting applications for the following positions on our Saint Mary's staff: 
Assistant Editor News Editor Accent Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor Office Manager Advertising Representative 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement to Emily
-
Friday March 1, 7:00p.m. and 9:30 p. m. 
Willett by 5 pm, Thursday, February 28, 1991 at the Haggar College 
Cushing Auditorium 
Center Desk. For more information call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
All donations to benefit the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center are graciously accepted 
Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Lakers win at Detroit, sweep season series 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­
A.C. Green scored four his 14 points in overtime and the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Detroit Pistons 102-96 Sunday to sweep their two-game sea­son series with the defending NBA champions. 
The Lakers have won 10 of their last 12 games on the road. 
It was the Pistons' first loss in livn overtimn games this sea­son, but they fell to 0-4 in na­tionally televised games on NBC. 
Detroit has lost four of its last sevtm at The Palaee to drop to 24-5 at home. Since lsiah Thomas' wrist injury, which sidelined him the remainder of the ·regular season, the Pistons are 9-6. 
Magic Johnson had 31 points and James Worthy added 29 points for the Lakers. James Edwards had 22 points for Detroit and Mark Aguirre fin­ished with 20. 
Green made a layup on the left side with 1:11 left to give the Lakers a 94-92 lead and then sank a pair of free throws with 44 seconds remaining. 
There were only two baskets in the first 3:05 of the overtime. Aguirre hit a jumper at the 
4:03 mark and Worthy scored with 1:55 remaining to tie it 92­92. 
Pacers 115, Celtics 109 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Reggie Miller led Indiana on a 29-14 run that erased a 15-point lead Boston held at the start of the fourth quarter, and the Pacers went on for their sixth straight victory. 
Chuck Person scored 28 points, and Miller had 26 points and 7 assists for the Pacers. Reggie Lewis had 27 points and 8 rebounds for the Celtics, and Brian Shaw scored 21 points, had 12 assists, and grabbed 8 rebounds. 
Boston led 86-71 at the start of the fourth period, but 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•In 
the fifth annual ROTC basketball tournament Sunday, the Notre Dame Army team defeated the Flying Irish of the Air Force 37-36 in the championships. The Army team held off Minnesota in triple overtime to advance from the semi-finals. 

•Attention 
crew members: meeting Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Balance for break .is due, along with $30 for ergathon. Huppel, please come! 

•Bookstore 
Basketball: Late and faculty sign-ups Monday, February 25 through Wednesday, February 27 from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. 

•The 
men's interhall "B" championship went to Flanner's B-3 team Sunday aftnrnoon as it defeated rival Grace B-2 47-45. 


Ihe Obseoer 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 27 to Dave Dieteman. For further information, call (239-7471). 
Indiana's run, highlighted by a pair of 3-pointers from Miller, tied the score at 100 with 4:15 left. 
The Pacers took a 104-102 lead with a slam dunk from Greg Dreiling with 3:10 to play, sparking an 8-4 run for a 110­105 Indiana advantage with 
1:04 left. The Celtics never got closer. 
Rockets 100, Timberwolves 91 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Larry Smith had 23 rebounds, his fourth 20-board game in the last five, and Sleepy Floyd came off the bench to score 21 points as the Houston Rockets beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 100-91. 
Vernon Maxwell and Kenny Smith added 18 points apiece for the Rockets, who have won 11 of their last 14 games, their best 14-game streak since 1988. Pooh Richardson scored 21 points for Minnesota, which is 1-8 since Feb. 7. 
Knicks 108, Heat 92 
MIAMI (AP) -Gerald Wilkins scored 21 points, Kiki Vandeweghe had 20 and Patrick Ewing 18 as the New York Knicks beat the Miami Heat 108-92. 
Wilkins scored 12 points in the third quarter as the Knicks extended a 63-58 lead. He had six points and an assist as New York used a 10-2 burst to take a 77-62 edge. Glen Rice scored 21 points for Miami and Sherman Douglas had 19. 
Magic 120, Kings 90 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Jerry Reynolds scored 23 points and the Orlando Magic beat Sacramento 120-90, extending the Kings' road losing streak to 23 games. 
The Magic has won seven of its last 11 games and is one victory short of last season's total of 18 wins. 
Nick Anderson scored 20 for Orlando and Otis Smith and Scott Skiles each had 16. Antoine Carr had 25 for the Kings and Lionel Simmons had 23. 
Clippers 129, Nuggets 112 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ron Harper scored 22 points and newly acquired Olden Polynice and Danny Manning each had 19, leading the Los Angeles Clippers over the Denver Nuggets 129-112. 
Polynice, obtained from Seattle last week, also had 12 rebounds. Charles Smith added 18 points and 13 rebounds for the Clippers. Los Angeles set a franchise record of 68 re­bounds, breaking the mark of 65 set April 23, 1988, against Denver. 
Polynice had two slam dunks and a foul shot as Los Angeles used a 13-2 run to take an 88­78 lead in the third quarter. Michael Adams scored 29 points and Chris Jackson came off the bench to add 16 points for the Nuggets. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Day Editor 
A student is needed to perform general office that include answering telephones and assigning stories. For more information, call Dannika Simpson at 283-4624 or 239-5303. 

AITENTION JUNIORS INTERESTED in ACCOUNTING, MARKETING and MANAGEMENT: The Student Business Board 
~[§J~ 

is looking for a general manager who has EXPERIENCE in these business fields. 
Applications can be picked up in the student government office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. Due March 1st. 
The general manager is responsible to the student senate for the operation of the three student-run businesses. Besides providing financial information, the GM serves as the chairperson of the SBB and works with the business managers in coordinating the management and marketing of the products and services. 
Bomb scare in Albuquerque not linked to war 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP)­New Mexico will long remember its game against Texas-EI Paso. Not so much for the victory it got, but for the two phone calls. 
"The events of the day super­sede a great win," Lobos coach Dave Bliss said. 
The Lobos beat UTEP 80-7 4 Saturday night in a Western Athletic Conference game de­layed for an hour by·t~o tele­phoned bomb threats that forced the evacuation of the standing room-only crowd of 18,100 from University Arena. 
Authorities said there was no indication the Persian Gulf war was in any way linked to the bomb threats, made in tele­phone calls shortly after the game began to the University of New Mexico police headquar­ters and Albuquerque police. 
New Mexico athletic director Gary Ness said the caller made no reference to the war. 
University police Capt. Alex Roybal said both calls appar­ently were placed by the same man. Albuquerque police were able to trace the second call to a telephone booth, but no ar­rests were made. 
"It was an unknown male caller who said, 'There's a bomb set to go off in The Pit (University Arena) 10 minutes into the second half,"' Roybal said. "Obviously it was the same person because the guy said he had called UNM, and he didn't think UNM was taking 
him seriously, so he called  
APD."  
The  game,  televised  

nationally by ESPN, did not start until 10 p.m. MDT. Within seconds after the halftime buzzer sounded, the capacity crowd was advised to evacuate the building, and some 50 police officers moved in to search. 
A search of the arena, whose playing floor is 37 feet below ground level, failed to turn up any trace of an explosive, and the game resumed shortly after midnight. 
"We tried to stay mentally tough," Bliss said of the long halftime. "I know it's a cliche, but we had to keep the focus on what our focus was." lie added that Lobo forward Vladimir McCrary remarked, "only the Orange Bowl had a longer halftime than ours." 
"Certainly it was a distrac­tion, a monumental distrac­tion." 
New Mexico, which led 40-31 at halftime, got 16 points from 7-foot-2 center Luc Longley in the final 20 minutes to stave off the Miners. 




Work up to 6 months 1n 811laon. Ireland. France. Germany. Jama•ca_ NeYI Zealand. and Costa Area Council'S Work Abroad Pro· gram, the only one ol1ls kond on the l.l S cuts through all the red tape' 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs. doscounl aor lares. language courses. and more_ 
Councrl on lnrt Educational Exchange (US. Sponsor of the lnrt Student I. D. Card} 
nci 
Chicago, IL 312·951-0585 Evanston. IL 708-475-5070 
,. 
-


page 20 The Observer Monday, February 25, 1991 

Hershiser continues on comeback trail; Gooden softens stance 
Grace claims IH hoops title with 46-44 victory 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Men's interhall basket­ball final between Grace and Cavanaugh provided all the ex­citement that was predicted when Demetrius DuBose hit a jump shot with four seconds remaining to propel Grace to a 46-44 win. 
Grace was coming off a hard fought 53-48 win over Morrissey and Cavanaugh was coming in after a relatively easy 51-41 win over Flanner. 
The game plan for Grace was to work the ball inside and crash the boards. Cavanaugh looked to continue playing good transition basketball and try to keep DuBose off the boards. 
Grace was able to execute its plan, but Cavanaugh had trou­ble with DuBose. He was a force on the boards and fin­ished with a 10 point perfor­mance. 
The first half ended with Grace leading Cavanaugh 24­
17. Grace was led by David Clar and Kevin Rule who each had six points, followed by DuBose with four, while Cavanaugh was led by Ray Griggs with eight points. He was supported by Rich McGillicudy who had four and Tim Quenan who added 
(AP)-While Orel Hershiser was throwing fastballs and changeups on Sunday, Dwight Gooden was changing his mind. 
Hershiser, making a careful comeback from shoulder surgery, threw batting practice for the Los Angeles Dodgers at Vero Beach, Fla., and reported no pain. A few miles south in Port St. Lucie, Gooden said he had reconsidered his self-im­posed contract deadline. 
"It felt really good," said Hershiser, the NL Cy Young Award winner in 1988. "I threw the ball properly. I didn't have any pain or stiffness. I thought my mechanics were good. I threw a lot of strikes." 
Hershiser hurt his shoulder last April and missed the rest of the season. 
"Orel had a lot of pop on the ball today," catcher Mike Scioscia said. "I was very im­pressed with the way he threw 
-
the ball. He's looking like the Orel of old." 
Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? How about doingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley ,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
three points. 
The second half provided much more excitement for the fans. It was characterized by a series of runs for each team. 
Cavanaugh opened the half with an 8-2 run to bring them within one, 26-25. Griggs led this run with a four-point play. 
Grace returned the favor by scoring six straight points to put them up by six, 31-25, late in the third quarter. 
The momentum see-sawed back and forth the rest of the game until Cavanaugh tied the score at 44 with 24 seconds remaining. 
After a Grace time-out, DuBose got the ball in the lane and hit a turn-around jump shot which 'would be the game winner for Grace. 
The Grace team expressed delight in their win. 
"It was a great win," said Gr.ace coach Mark Sloan. "1\vo weeks ago, we lost our final game. We didn't know if we would make the playoffs, but now we have won the champi­onships." 
"It was awesome," said DuBose. "It was a great win for Grace and it was really fun to get involved in a dorm athletic event." 
Hershiser has set a goal of being ready by opening day, but admits he still has some work to do before he can even pitch in exhibition games. 
"It's reassuring that I've been able to get to this point and ev­erything has been positive," Hershiser said, "but I still have a ways to go." 
Meanwhile, Gooden changed his strategy and decided his agent could continue contract talks with the New York Mets. 
Gooden, seeking a deal to match the four-year, $21.4 mil­lion contract Roger Clemens re­ceived from Boston, had set a Friday deadline on the talks and rejected a three-year, $13 million offer from the Mets. He has one year remaining on his current contract and will earn $2.25 million for 1991. 
"I did a lot of thinking after Friday," Gooden said, 19-7 last season. "I really wasn't com­fortable the way things sat. 

When I came to the ballpark Saturday, everyone was around my locker, wanting to talk and rehash the contract. I didn't want to have to go through that anymore. 
"I read some of the papers and it didn't seem like me. I de­cided to take the pressure off and do away with the dead­line." 
Gooden said he advised his agent, Jim Neader, that he could continue talks with the Mets during the season. 
AFRICAN FILM FESTIVAL 
Monday, February 25: YAABA 
A humanistic tale of rural African life...centering on the relationship of a 12 year-old boy and an old woman ... haunting, refreshing, captivating. 


Tuesday, February 26: C H 0 C 0 LA T 
A pun on the French slang for both "black" and "cheated," Chocolat, set in Camaroon, probes the barriers between white and black, Europe and Africa. 
Directed by Africa's celebrated film-maker, Ousmane Sembene, this film is a powerful WWII drama of African troops in the French army. More authentic than Glory. 
Thursday, February 28: A WORLD APART 

.--~~~ 

Barbara Hershey stars in this based-on-fact drama about a South African family caught in the early struggle against apartheid. 
8:00PM. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS MULTI· PURPOSE ROOM ADMISSION FREE SPONSOilED BY AFRICAN AND AFRICAN-AMBRICAN STUDIBS PROGRAM, AFRICAN STUDBNTS ASSOCIATION, CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, AND MINORITY. INTERNATIONAL AND NON-TRADITIONAL STUDENT LIFE AFFAIRS AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Irish lose tough one to Buckeyes 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame men's base­ball team lost a heartbreaking 11-inning 12-11 decision to the 16th-ranked Ohio State Buck­eyes in the finals of the Phoenix Thunderbirds Tournament Sun­day night. 
The Irish broke a 9-9 tie in the top of the lOth. Mike Coss singled to lead off the inning. With one out, Edwin Hartwell hit a triple to score Coss. Craig Counsell then scored Hartwell on a single to put the Irish up 11-9 with one out in the tenth. 
Eric Danapilis moved in from right field to pitch the bottom of the tenth for the Irish, and after coaxing two fly-outs, hit Mike Durant and gave up a two­strike double to Dean Mueller to score Durant. Danapilis balked Mueller to third, and Matt Ban's infield single scored Mueller. 
Ohio State led off the bottom of the 11th with a Doug Wallenberg double. Tony La­vorsi entered the game to pitch for Notre Dame and gave up two walks-one intentional-to load the bases. 
Chad Hartvigson climbed the pitcher's mound for the Irish and immediately gave up the game-ending single to Keith Clodnick, scoring Wallenberg. 
Danny Darwin already has his money, but the Boston Red Sox were waiting to see him in action. 
Darwin, guaranteed $11.8 million on a multiyear contract signed as a free agent, re­mained a no show Sunday at the Red Sox' camp in Winter Haven, Fla. 
"Darwin said he'd be here to­day, so we'll see what hap­pens," manager Joe Morgan said after the 2 1/2-hour prac­tice at Chain O'Lakes Park. 
Biko-Stewart 

Darwin, the NL earned-run average champ last season with Houston, had been given an OK to report one day late in order to fulfill a commitment made before signing with the Red Sox. 
In other spring training news on Sunday: 
At Sarasota, Fla., Hall of Farner Jim Palmer felt his workout for the Baltimore Orioles went a little better even though he developed a blister. 


----------~--------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Irish use Alex Wilson Invitational to tune up for IC4A's 
Clark qualifies in 55-meter dash 
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer 
Top-notch universities from eoast to eoast convened on the Loftus Sports Center Saturday as the Notre Dame men's track and field team hosted the fifth annual Alex Wilson Invitational. 
For the Irish, the meet was charaeterized by several exeit­ing performances as athletes made a final attempt to qualify for next week's IC4A Championships. 
Notre Dame eaptain Hyan Cahill feels the team is ready for the postseason. 
"We would have liked to qual­ify a couple more guys, but with the talent we have across the board, I think we'll do well at the meet," he said. 
In the distance races, Cahill onee again registered an out­standing effort as he captured third place in the 3,000 meter run. 
19X4 Olympian Jim Spivey, now competing with the Asics Tiger racing team, broke from the field early to win the event in 7:55. 
llowever, Cahill's time of 8:07 marked the second time this season the senior has bettered the NCAA 3,000 meter qualify­ing standard. 
Cahill was trailed by Irish teammate Pat Kearns who low­Ned his personal best time to 
X: 15, narrowly missing the NCAA rnquirnment. 
Kearns, who will captain the 1991 Notre Dame cross country squad, felt good about his pre­IC4A tune-up. 
"With the exception of one or two laps, I was satisfied," Kearns said. 
The sprints produced familiar results as the duo of Haghib "Hocket" Ismail and Willie Clark raced to another one-two finish in the 55-meter dash. 
Ismail, who has already cloeked the nation's best 55­meter time, appeared unbeat­able in cruising to a win with a time of 6.22 seconds. 
Clark, who garnered top honors in the 200-meter dash, looked equally impressive as the freshman matched the NCAA 55 -meter qualifying mark. 
Middle distance runners Mark Lavery and Greg Soroka provided the Irish with another one-two puneh as the pair grabbed first and second plaee in the 1,000 meter run. 
The race was not without disappointment, however, as both runners fell short of the IC4A standard by less than a second. 
Senior Scott Vandenburg also turned in a near-miss effort, falling just short of the IC4A 500-meter dash mark. Nevertheless, the Irish sprinter recorded a personal best 1:05.8 effort. 
LIKE CHILDREN? 
LIKE THE OUTDOORS? 
Be a counselor this summer at Camp Foley in Pine River MN 
Come see us: Man Feb. 25 at SMC in Lemans Tues Feb. 26 at ND in Lafortune 
Looking for staff in saiUng, swimming, biking, windsurfing, tennis, waterskiing, fencing, canoeing, archery, riflery, crafts, a more 
ALUMNI
Ill 

SENIOR 


Women 
continued from page 24 
locker room (after halftime) 
and take charge," Robinson 
said. "We had a great run, and 
we need to take it from there in 
the second half, but we were a 
little complacent then because 
we knew we were up." 
Old Dominion hung close 
despite making only six of 35 
shots in the second half (17 
percent) by converting 14 of 21 
Men 
continued from page 24 
game with 5:35 remaining after 
Redmen assistant coach Brian 
Mulroney suggested that 
Carnesecca should go with a 
quicker lineup. 
"This game goes to Brian 
Mulroney," Carnesecca said. "It 
was his idea to go with the 
quicker team. This win was 
his." 

The Observerll<enneth Osgood Sophomore Nich Radkewich was among several Irish distance runners to post fine times in this weekend's Alex Wilson Invitational. 
:z: 


1-LUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 
foul shots and grabbing 15 second-half offensive boards. A sequence of events at the 
13:39 mark, however, turned the tide back in Notre Dame's favor. Davis made one of two free throws, but Kristin Knapp grabbed the offensive board, and after swinging the ball around the perimeter, Davis sliced between two defenders for a basket to boost the lead to 46-39. 
The Monarchs closed to within four, 48-44, three min­utes later, but Robinson hit an 
The Irish used a 2-3 zone on defense and a slow, deliberate attack to pull ahead in the first half. Werdann scored 10 of the first 12 Redmen points to keep his squad in the game in the early going, but when Ellery hit a three-pointer 2:11 before the half, the Irish led 30-22. St. John's managed to close the deficit to 32-29 by halftime. 
Notre Dame led throughout most of the second half. Its largest lead of the second stanza was six points after Ellery hit his jumper with 5:49 remaining. But it wasn't meant to be. 
The Irish scored just once in the last 5:48 of the game. 
Forward Daimon Sweet led the Irish with 20 points, although he was held scoreless 18-footer from the left side to spark an 11-2 run that gave the Irish a 59-46 lead with only 
4:30 remaining. 
All that was left was the cele­brating. McGraw replaced the seniors one by one, and as each came to the bench, received a standing ovation from the 3,291 fans. Each lingered on the court as if not quite want­ing the game to end. 
"I don't think it'll really hit me until {Sunday) morning when I wake up," Davis said. 
for the last 12 minutes of the game. Ellery added 13 and Bennett chipped in 11. Sealy, who played the entire ballgame for St. John's, had eight re­bounds to go with his 24 points. Werdann added 18 points and nine rebounds. 
NOTES-Fordham defeated Dayton 73-63 in the first game of Saturday's doubleheader at the Garden. The Flyers will visit the Joyce ACC to face Notre Dame Tuesday... Phelps's 1970-71 Fordham team cele­
-

brated its 20th anniversary over the weekend. That Ham team, which finished 26-3, was honored at halftime of the Fordham-Dayton contest. .. The Irish have now lost three straight in Madison Square Garden. 
Douglas Road Closing Douglas Rd., between Juniper Rd. and U.S. 33, will be closed to thru traffic February 26-28, 1991. This is necessitated by preliminary construction work for the new campus laundry building, which is to be located northwest of the credit union. 
Douglas Rd., from U.S. 33, should be utilized to reach University Village, St. Joseph Hall, Holy Cross House, and Moreau Seminary. 
Douglas Rd., from Juniper Rd., should be utilized to access the credit union, warehouse, and support services building. 
Should you need further information contact N.D. Security/Police at 239-5053 or 239-5555. 

page 22 The Observer Monday, February 25, 1991 
Hockey team's playoff hopes dimmed 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
Think of it as the weekend of missed opportunities. When the Air Force Falcons came to take on the Notre Dame hockey team at the Joyce Center this past Friday and Saturday, the Irish were looking to keep themselves in the hunt for a possible bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
But Notre Dame lost 7-4 Friday night and tied 2-2 Saturday night, missing chances both nights that could have given them two wins in­stead of a loss and a tie. 
Part of that had to do with the play of the Falcons' pair of stand-out goaltenders. Friday night Mark Liebich faced 46 shots, many of them just out­side the crease and stopped 42. On Saturday his teammate Mike Blank was subjected to 44 shots and turned back 42. 
"The first night (Friday) their goalie was unconscious," said junior David Bankoske. "He stopped everything we threw at 
him." 
Sterling Black, a sophomore right wing, said, "We had a lot of chances. (But) goaltenders always seem to come up big against us." 
That's not to say Notre Dame didn't have its opportunities, however. Friday night the Irish had 17 shots from very close range in the second period alone, and could score on only two of them. 
"We couldn't crack the shell . .. we were controlling play. We did a lot of good things, but they didn't end up in goals. (That's) all the more reason to maintain composure," said Coach Ric Schafer. 
Bankoske said, "I had a cou­ple of point-blank chances, and I was in the process of raising my stick (to celebrate), and then I looked and saw he (the Air Force goaltender) had the puck." 
Notre Dame gave its fans a nailbiting finish on Saturday night with a goal by Black with 
game going into the third pe­
just 13 seconds left in regula­
riod. 
tion. The Irish had six attackers 
Air Force took the wind out of 

on the ice after pulling goalie 
Notre Dame's sails with two 
Greg Louder, and Black was 
goals in a 14-second span early
able to flick in the rebound of 
in the third, although Mike 
Bankoske's shot. 
Curry brought the Irish to 
Neither team was able to 

within one goal on a power­
generate much offense in the 
play score with 12 minutes left
overtime period, although 
to play.
Louder made a nice save with 
The Falcons put things out of

48 seconds that ensured the tie. 
reach with two goals in the fi­
The Falcons got on the board 

nal two minutes of play, and the 
first in a physical opening pe­
Irish were saddled with a 7-4
riod, picking off a poor pass by 
loss. 
an Irish defender and shooting 
"We didn't figure out how to 

it past Louder after 6:32 had 
maintain play," said Schafer. "It
expired in the game. 
was too sporadic. Our con­
Six minutes later, Bankoske 

centration faded in and out like 
moved into a tie for lOth place 
a long-distance radio station." 
on the Notre Dame career as­
The Irish needed to come up

sist list, feeding Lou Zadra for 
big in their last few games to
the tying goal-Bankoske took 
earn the independent bid to the
sole possession of lOth place 
NCAA Tournament, but this
with an assist on Black's final 
past weekend may have ended 
score. 
those chances. 
After the Falcons went ahead 
"We had hopes of going to the 

on a Bob Ingraham goal just 
NCAA Tournament," said Black. 
two minutes into the second pe­
"(This weekend) dashed our
riod, the game was scoreless 
hopes. It doesn't look good,"
until Black's goal as time 
although he added, "If we win 
wound down. 
the Independent Tournament,
Notre Dame had two excel­

who knows?" 
lent opportunities to tie it up 
Ad Design Manager: 
-
The Observer is seeking an eager and creative person to oversee the daily design of Observer advertisements. This person must be good humored, responsible and be reasonably competent with Macintosh computers. 
Happy Art Director: 
201/2 The Observer is seeking an artistic person with a penchant for graphics to direct the Observer's graphics department. This position is open to peopleBirthday with either illustrative abilities or graphics skills. John A. Albers 
Anyone interested in these positions should submit a two page personal 
statement by 5 pm, Friday, March 1 to Kelley Tuthill. Any questions should 
be directed to either Kelley or Lisa at 239-7471. 
LIFE OF THE MIND Carla Johnson "Margi na1 Notes" 
& 

Linnea Vacca
Anarew Cutrofe11 o "The Press and· Authoritative 4p .m. Opinion in the Gulf" Mo~.aF~g~l 25I Feb.25 Bp .m. Science Hall rm 105 


earlier, but Curtis Janicke put his shot off the post after juking the goalie, and Mike Curry 
. ~~~li. . . e~·mlioAllt99i . ~ 
couldn't find the range with Blank out of the net. 
.l ATTENTION STUDENTS J.A§T1NEEK OF SIGNUPS 
"It was a typical Notre Dame­Air Force game," said Schafer. "It's almost appropriate it was 
Off-Campus Sign-ups: 

a tie." Said Bankoske, "Somebody ··.February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch 
was looking down on us and February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. said 'These guys were working .. On-Campus Sign-ups: hard. They deserve a tie.'" 
·· Now-March 1. Look for posters in your respective dorms. 
Friday night's game had a 

similar storyline in that the "Christmas in April1991" will take place Irish had their chances but just in the St. Cashmir-Ford Street neighborhood.couldn't convert them into 
This project needs your support.
goals. 
Questions??? Please Call: 
Black tied the game late in 

the first on a spectacular short­Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheilbel x1739 handed goal, but then the Falcons scored two goals within 
1:30 to take a 3-1 lead a few minutes into the second period. 
Next came the flurry of 11 shots on goal for the Irish, and the two theyscored on tied the 

is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
The Observer/Scott McCann Lou Zadra (shown here vs. Ferris State) scored the goal, but Chris Bankoske's as~ist placed him in the top 1 0 in career assists at Notre Dame Saturday night. 

Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS 
4:35-6:30 p.m. Mexican dinner. Center for Social Concerns. Donations welcome. 
6:30 p.m. Workshop, "'Assertive Confrontation: Being Taetfully Tough," Dr. Clinton Gabbard, University Counseling Center. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by University Counseling Center. 
7 p.m. Women Gathering, O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. Sponsored by Year of the Woman. 
8 p.m. African Film Festival, "Yaaba." Multi • Purpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by African and African-American Studies Programs, African Students Association, Center for Social Concerns, and Minority. International, and Non-Traditional Student Life Affairs at Saint Mary's College. 
.. 
LECTURES 
Monday 
4 p.m. "The Persian Gulf Crisis," lngela Martensson, M.P., Swedish Parliament. Room 121, Law School. 
4 p.m. Life of the Mind Lecture Series, "Marginal Notes," Linnea Vacca. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 
4:10 p.m. Colloquim, "Studies of Layered materials: Structure of the Co/PH Supcrlattice," Xiao Yan, University of Pennsylvania. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by department of physics. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "My Legal Ethics is Not an Oxymoron," John Robinson, Director of White Center on Law and Government. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Provost's office and the University Academic Code of Honor Committee. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "Press and the Authoritative Opinion," Carla Johnson and Andrew Cutrofello. Room 105, Science Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Tuesday 
Noon Lecture, "'Latin American State and Social Policies: Constraints and Trends in Citizenship and State­Building," Room 131, Declo Faculty Hall. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round Turkey Turnover Vegetables Marinara 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
Oto.Mt.S SC.RB.M IW\ AN OCTt>,I/E USIJ~I..\..'i RE.st.R~E.D fOR CALLING D<X;S, BIJT IT MEf>..~T l \.lAO (;.. CASE I A~D 11-\E SOON\l Ot GRt.E.NBtr.CKS SLI\WING ACRS:l§ M~ P~LM \":> MU<:i~C. \0 HY t.~S AN~ \)ft..'i • .b-ITER. AlL, l'M ND\ AN OPERA CRITIC. I'M 1\ PR\1./1\1£ E'{E. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 African range 6 Wife of Saturn 9 Display 
13--Loa, Hawaiian volcano 
14 Music, painting, etc. 16 Cod or Horn 17 Having no more 
energy 19 Using speech 20 Belief 
21 Labor org. 22 Archer William 
23 Cooperative 26 Dostoyevsky's "-Youth" 


29 Garnish used 
by chefs 32 Shuffle along 33 Aquatic 
mammal 36 Untouchables, 
e.g. 38 Serf of yore 40Words of 
comprehension 42 Diminished 45 Health problem 48 Sewer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~ 
-=...j..:=-+==-+.::.+=-1 

~~4=-=:..j..:-gR 
-=+=:.:..j.::..j..;.~ .:...:..j..~~~ .::::+:~-FB 
:.:.:.L:=..J..:..:.J..::.J..::..J 

30 Cover 31 Jerk 34 Festive 
occasion 35 Office biggie 37 Emulate 
Valentino 39 Hazard for 
boaters 41 Helps 43 Residue 44 Plate 46 Observed 47 Having hearing 
organs 49P 0. item 50 Phoenician 
seaport 51 Deep blue 54 Hebrew 
measure 57 Actress Blyth 58 Ruth's 
mother-in-law 62 Fail to win 63 Hans Brinker et 
al. 66 Notable periods 67 Space org. 68 Sir Arthur-­
Doyle 69 Burden 10 Attention getter 71 Showy flower 
DOWN 
1 I love, to Ovid 2Tight 3 Stringed 
instrument 4Soon 5 Temptations for 
Jimmy 
Valentine 6 Kind of meal 7 Go before a Way up or down 9 Cocktail or 
weather 
phenomenon 10 Warren denizen 11 Gem for Jimmy 
Carter 12 Water holder 15 L.A. problems 
18 Fashioned 24 Said "Nyet!" 25 Summer treats 26 Taj Mahal site 27 Elevate 28 It's a start 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
52 Open, as a bottle 53 Civil-rights org. 54 Butter substitute 55 Daybreak, to Donne 
56 Jacob's twin 59 Indian of Okla. 60 "But-buts": 
Fielding 61 Persia, updated 64 Posed 65 Timber bend on 
a ship 


CCIJKT'( LIBAAR'I !" iE.S, 00 'IOJ ~-~~~E ~N'I BooKS Ot-1, 1-\0~E. t-1./>..0E. 80tll8'5 ? 

111ATS WI-IAT I St\10. I NEEO t>. BOOI<. 1\l/>..1 LISTS S\II?I'L\ES M~D G\\IES 5\EI?­B'I-siEP \l'lS\l<IJC.i'\ONS FCR BIJILOING, RIGG-\I'lG, 
ft..NO OHONft..TING-1\-\'t.tJ\. 
I 
..!,,~ 
,,.., ............. 
BILL WATIERSON 

1 GH 1\\t. t'E.El~~G 1\\t.R'C. WI\S No RI@T 
ft..NS~t.R \tl i\-\tr.I 
Q\JE.S\\ON. 
"" 
3·Z~ 

Sports 
page 24 Monday, February 25, 1991 
Weekend brings mixed results for Irish hoops teams 
Seniors cap memorable careers with come­from-behind 70-58 win over Old Dominion 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The seniors on the Notre Dame women's basketball team went out in style. 
A season-high crowd of 3,291-the second highest in team history-sent a fond farewell to Karen Robinson, Krissi Davis and Sara Liebscher, and they responded by combining for 43 points to lead the Irish to a 70-58 victory over Old Dominion Saturday afternoon. 
"It really means a lot to the team to come out of the tunnel and see all these people here," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "It inspired us to play well and to come back in the end." 
The victory upped Notre Dame's record to 20-5-the fourth straight 20-win season for McGraw and the seniors-while Old Dominion fell to 3-19. Robinson led all scorers with 20 points, while Margaret Nowlin added 14 points and 14 rebounds. Davis chipped in 13 points, and Liebscher 10. Jackie Kenney 

-
and Celeste Hill paced the Monarchs with 15 points apiece. 
"The seniors have carried this team and taken us to a new level," McGraw said. 
The Irish fell behind early against the Monarchs. T.J. Jones' three-pointer from the top of the key with 6:11 left in the half capped an 11-2 run that gave Old Dominion a 29-18 lead. 
Both Hill and Kenney riddled the Irish defense early. The duo combined for 19 of the Monarchs' first 29 points be­fore foul trouble forced them to the bench within a minute of each other late in the half with three personals apiece. 
Notre Dame quickly took ad­vantage. Liebscher buried a three from the right wing to end the run, and after a Hill put-back, held Old Dominion scoreless the final 5:18 of the half while scoring 17 straight points to take a 38-31 halftime lead. 
"Any time you have key people in foul trouble, you have to compensate," Monarch coach Wendy Larry said. "We have a lot of youth on this team, and when our players got in foul trouble, we had to go with young people to get the job done." 



During that stretch, the Irish applied a full-court press, and Old Dominion fell apart. The Monarchs turned the ball over seven times in the last five min­utes, and missed six shots. Notre Dame in the meantime climbed back from the charity stripe, hitting 9-of-10 foul shots as it pounded the ball inside on the beleaguered Monarchs. 
"When we made our run, it was a matter of realizing they couldn't handle pressure well," Davis said. "We stepped up our defense, and when that started clicking, our offense re­sponded." 
The Irish came out flat at the start of the second half, and Old Dominion chipped away at the lead. With 14:39 remaining, Hill's drive cut the margin to 43-39, and shades of last week­end's loss to Miami (Ohio) were apparent. 
"We have to come out of the 
see WOMEN I page 21 

57-55 loss to St. John's is latest in string of last-second heartbreakers for Notre Dame 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YORK, N.Y.-The Irish had a chance to tie it at the end, but it wasn't meant to be. 
Keith Tower missed a six-foot jumper. Kevin Ellery re­bounded, but couldn't convert the layup. Tower tapped the ball toward the rim once more, but he couldn't knock it in, and Malik Sealy rebounded at the buzzer to preserve a 57-55 St. John's victory over Notre Dame 
in  front  of 15,878  fans  at  
Madison  Square  Garden  
Saturday night.  

The Irish exercised extreme patience and played good de­fense as they led for most of the game. But Notre Dame (11-17) couldn't put the ball in the hoop at crunch time and St. John's (19-6) escaped with a two-point win. 
With 5:49 remaining in the game Kevin Ellery pushed the Irish lead to 53-47 with an 18­foot jumper. Then Notre Dame went cold. Redmen center Robert Werdann and guard Chucky Sproling each made two free throws to cut the Irish lead to two, and then Sealy, who led all scorers with 24 points, made a three-point play with 4:01 remaining to put St. John's up 54-53. 
But the Irish weren't finished. Elmer Bennett made a 14-foot jumper to reclaim the lead for Notre Dame with 3:30 remain­ing. Two scoreless minutes went by before Irish point guard Tim Singleton made a crucial turnover. 
The Notre Dame captain drove to the hole and appeared to have a chance to lay it in. But he decided to pass to Ellery instead, and the ball rolled through Ellery's legs and out of bounds. 
"Singleton had the layup on that play," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "I don't know what he was trying to do when he passed it to Ellery. I don't know what Tim was 

Notre Dame sweeps MCC swimming championships 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference swimming and div­ing championships netted 25 new meet records last weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Although the Notre Dame swim teams only broke eight meet records, the Irish swam away with both men's and women's meets. 
The Irish men scored 976 over second place Evansville (620), Saint Louis, Xavier, Butler and Loyola, while the Notre Dame women tallied 897 over MCC foes Saint Louis (718), Evansville, Butler and Xavier. 
The last event marked the height of Notre Dame's power in the MCC meet. Both of the Irish men and women's 400 freestyle relays captured firsts in record-breaking times. 
Tom Byorick, Karl Peterson, Kevin Flanagan and Steve Tann provided the winning combina­tion in the men's relay (3:09.19) while Jean Kelly, Jackie Jones, Colette LaForce and Kim Steel clocked in 3:38.22 for the women's relay. 
"The quality of the meet speaks for itself with the num­ber of records set," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "It was a fun meet, a successful meet and a good indicator of how the next meet (Eastern Conference Championships) will be." 
Senior co-captain Brian Rini recorded the highest number of points on the men's side (77 points) after winning three in­dividual events and placing-sec­ond to teammate Kevin Flanagan in the 200 freestyle. Rini set meet records in the 500 freestyle (4:40.10), 1650 freestyle (16:31.35) and the 200 butterfly (1:54.91). Flanagan's win in the 200 free also set an­other Irish meet record, 1:42.84. 
Senior Amy Tri recorded double wins in the 400 individ­ual medley and the 200 breast­stroke, resetting her own meet record in the IM (4:44.25). Tri also set a meet record in the breaststroke (2: 30. 62) after moving to first from a third place seeding going into finals. 
Junior Shana Stephens claimed first in the 200 back­stroke, 2:12.99. Jenny Kipp won both 1-meter and 3-meter diving events-Irish divers took the first four places in the 1­meter diving event as Jenny Stumm, Angela Gugle and Vicki Catenacci placed second, third and fourth respectively. 
Freshman Pat Cady duoed with junior Roger Rand for first and second places in both the 100 and 200 breaststroke events. Cady won both events in times of 58.93 seconds in the 100 and 2:10.16 in the 200. 
Diver Sean Hyer dove to dou­ble wins in the 1-and 3-meter diving events, while senior co­captain Jim Byrne recorded the other Irish first in the 400 indi­vidual medley, 4:13.09. 
Across the board Welsh was extremely pleased with how ev­eryone swam. "We were very solid, people swam well. The freshmen men raced especially well," said Welsh. 
thinking on that play." 

Just 12 seconds later~ Singleton fouled St. John's guard David Cain, who made both free throws to give the Redmen a 56-55 lead. After Elmer Bennett missed an off­balance shot, Redmen guard Jason Buchanan made one of two free throws with 15 sec­onds left. giving the Irish a chance to tie when Singleton got the ball to Tower on the block. 
But it wasn't meant to be. 
"I thought our kids played extremely well," Phelps said. "We controlled the tempo and forced St. John's to shoot from the outside." 
The Redmen shot just 31.6 percent from the field in the first half and 35.6 percent for the game. St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca said the perfor­mance of guard David Cain was crucial to his team's victory. Cain was inserted into the 
see MEN/ page 21 
Falcons soar 

The Notre Dame hockey team tied Air Force 2-2 Saturday night to stave off a sweep of its weekend series with the Falcons. See page 22. 





