

~·-~~ 

.g~.
server 
Saint Ma~s College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Youth convicted of battery of Notre Dame students 
lng a trial held on September 12 suffered multiple contusions to Further investigation led to One of the victims, who By MICHAEL SCHOLL in Indiana Juvenile Court. the head, face, and back. the arrest of a sixteen year-old wished to remain nameless, The attack occurred in the South Bend male. The youth said he was "very pleased to see
News Writer 
early morning of Saturday, South Bend police had little to confessed to misdemeanor bat­that justice has been done." He March 2 near the intersection of go on initially since the victims tery and provided evidence that indicated that civil suits againstA seventeen year-old South Elwood and Portage streets in could provide only partial de­led to the arrest of four other the parents of the convicted as­Bend resident has been con­South Bend. The five Notre scriptions of the assailants and suspects, including the juvenile sailants are possible.
victed of felony battery in con­
Dame and four Sain~ Mary's their vehicle. However, detec­convicted September 12. One of 
nection with an attack on five 
students had engaged in an tives soon uncovered a lead the juveniles pled guilty to Steinke said juveniles con­Notre Dame students last 
verbal exchange with five young when several off-duty officers felony battery in early Septem­victed of felony battery in Indi­March. 
men riding In a passing car. working as security guards in a ber, according to St. Joseph ana can receive a maximum The men attacked the Notre local high school overheard County Deputy Prosecutor Brian sentence of detention in the In­
The youth, who cannot be 
Dame students, all male, with students boasting about the at­Steinke, while the two others diana Boys School until age 21. 
identified due to his juvenile baseball bats. All five victims tack.
status, was found guilty follow-
May I have this skate? The Observer/Rachel Belanger 
Two students tentatively try out their talents on the ice at the JACC Saturday afternoon. The ice rink is open for public skating as an alternative social outlet for students, faculty and staff. 


Board of Trustees report warns of research increase 
await trial. 
WVFI hopes to switch over to FM frequency 
By BECKY BARNES Presidents' Council. News Writer Resolutions concerning the 
change will be introduced in 
the meetings of both groups 
When Notre Dame's student­this week, said Flaherty. run radio station WVFI plays This resolution asks for sup­REM's latest album, "Out of port because Mthe station Time," listeners are hearing a stands to serve the community record the station had to pur­educationally as well as musi­chase itself, because REM's cally," said Flaherty. He cited record label found the AM sta­news broadcasts and adver­tion's listenership too small to tisements of campus events as merit the traditional free pro­examples of other roles of the motional album. station. 
Being overlooked by labels is The switch to FM is expected just one of the reasons for the to cost about $30,000. The campus alternative radio sta­station will cover the expense tion to switch to an FM fre­with a loan out of its budget, quency, according to Jeff Jotz, Flaherty said. music director. In order to make the switch, 
Jotz and station manager the station needs permission Kevin Flaherty are pursuing from Student Affairs and Stu­the possibility of upgrading dent Activities, said Flaherty. WVFI, 640 AM, to an FM The potential listenership is frequency. Before approaching much higher on FM, said Fla­the administration, the station herty. At present, WVFI is on is seeking support from the Student Senate and Hall 
see WVFI I page 4 

By MEGAN JUNIUS University," according to News Writer committee chair Karen Stohr. The report will be a lengthy, 
One of the major areas of in-depth study consisting of concern for the 1991-92 stu­personal interviews with both dent government Involves Notre students and faculty, said Stohr. Dame's transition to a major It will focus on class size, research university. Concerned faculty and student interaction with the effect the transition both In and out of the will have on undergraduate ed­classroom, and the availability ucation, student government of classes. has designated the fall Board of A balanced approach will be Trustees report as MResearch used throughout the report, vs. Teaching at a Catholic with both student and faculty 

Catholic law schools face a peculiar dilemna 
By SHARON LAVIN News Writer 
The separation of law and religion is a difficult task for Catholic law schools, but one that If done correctly, can foster an excellent legal education, according to a leading legal scholar who spoke at Notre Dame last week. 
Min part, I am the wearer of a Yarmulke, in part, the wearer of a mortarboard," said Victor Hosenblum of the dilemma be­tween the place of religion In a law school. 
Rosenblum examined both sides of the dilemma Friday as part of the all-day symposium, MA Catholic Law School in America." 
As a Catholic law school, Notre Dame Mopens doors to people of multiple religions and races, and seeks the finest legal education," according to Rosenblum, of Northwestern University. 
MBut you don't stop there. You add on the crucifix, the pursuit of own individualized religious conceptions. This doesn't eliminate other parts of the curriculum. You have the additional factor of dedication of religious ideals and beliefs," he said. 
People often criticize Notre Dame for mixing religion with law teachings, but Rosenblum defends that some of the most ardent critics of natural law are those who do not practice natural law. MWe have to watch out when people attack us to see exactly what they are at­tacking," he said. 
MThe more one endorses a document as being religious, 
see LAW/ page 4 

Student Government Issues 1991 First in a three part series 
reflection on the present status of undergraduate education at the University, according to Stohr. 
Last year student government presented a similar, but less detailed report to introduce the topic of research vs. teaching at the University. It was a "preliminary report to outline the many student concerns pre­cipitated by the increased em­phasis upon research," said Rob Pasin, 1990-91 student body president. 
It "was not to offer specific recommendations, but rather to provide an overview of the current situation," he said. 

This year's committee will 
add to that report by finding 
specific conflicts caused by the 
transition to a research univer­
sity, according to Stohr. 
"The 1991-92 Report will be more descriptive, taking the Is­sue in greater depth," she said. "We want to find solutions for the connicts between teaching and researching without letting either suffer." 
In order to compile statistics, 
see REPORT I page 4 

Cheney: no quick bucks from cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ad­ministration officials said Sun­day there will be no short-run savings in defense costs from President Bush's dramatic nu­clear weapons standdown. 
"Over the next few months, or in fiscal year '92, there are added costs with terminating contracts, moving systems around, destroying warheads, etc., that had not previously been expected," Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 
Cheney said the nation's mili­tary must be ready to fight a regional conflict anywhere in the world and that the Strategic 
see CHENEY I page 4 
fORECAST: Mostly sunny and warmer today. Highs in 70s. Chance of showers later. Cooler on Tues. Highs in 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 


ND infirmary should provide condoms 
Du Lac specifically states ti::;;;ii~ 
it, " ... Sexual union should 
only occur in marriage. 
Students found in violation 
of this policy shall be 
subject to suspension or 
dismissal." So for those of 
you who haven't read du Rich Szabo 
Lac, shame on you.
The problem is, no Sports Copy 
matter how hard I try, I ___E_d_it_or__ 
just can't imagine Notre 
Dame as a completely celibate campus. Let's 
face it, raging hormones are raging 
hormones, regardless of the fact that they 
happen to reside at a Catholic university. 
Though they may seek to prohibit it, those in 
higher places in the ND hierarchy certainly 
must realize that some hanky-panky does go 
on, and rule-breaking students will satisfy 
their lustful desires (or attempt to) if they so 
choose. 
Notre Dame is an exceptional institution, but 
prohibiting sex simply will not work. It's going 
to go on anyway, so the University should 
realize the dangers associated with such 
behavior. 
While it is generally held that premarital sex 
is against the teachings of the Catholic 
church, not everyone, Catholics included, 
supports that idea. 
Therefore, it is time to bring up the dreaded 
C-word, demon though it may be. Yes, 
condoms. Unless the University wants to 
monitor its students 24 hours a day to insure 
that they are being chaste, condoms should 
be available to the student body (or should I 
say for the student's body). 
The infirmary, that bastion of health care, 
should be a dispenser of condoms. It is a 
scientific fact that using one dramatically 
reduces the chances of contracting STDs or 
the HIV virus. As medical professionals those 
staiTmg the infirmary, regardless of religious 
aiTiliation, have a responsibility to look out for 
the health of their charges. 
Not providing students with access to 
condoms is like saying that AIDS and other 
sexually-transmitted diseases don't exist, or 
that they can be ignored and will go away. 
My roommate went to the infirmary earlier 
this year and, out of pure curiosity (honestly), 
asked one of the nurses if the infirmary 
supplied condoms. "This is a Catholic 
university" was the harsh reply, and that was 
the end of the discussion-period. 
One can still obtain condoms, through a trip 
to Osco or Walgreens. A walk to the health 
center should be all that a student has to do. 
Religious and moral beliefs aside, it is time 
for the University to accept the fact that du 
Lac does not guarantee the framework of 
people's behavior, and that it has a 
responsibility to protect students from the 
dangers, the REAL dangers associated with 
those young sex drives. 
I am not saying that the University's beliefs 
are incorrect, but they do not represent the 
beliefs of all students. It makes sense that 
students be allowed freedom of choice, and 
that condoms be made available to those who 
want to use them, both for their protection 
and for that of the University. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff News Accent Rene Ferran Paige Smoron Pete Loftus Jeannie Shin Kelly Lynch VIewpoint Sports Rich Riley Rich Szabo Jessica Trobaugh 
Business 
Graphics Colleen Gannon 
Brendan Regan Colette LaForce 
Production 
Rich RileyLisa Bourdon Photos 
Michelle Woorl A. Garr Schwartz 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obserwr Is a member of the Associated Press. AH reproduction righll ••r8181Ved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
•MINNEAP LIS-Prince fans are meeting this week in his hometown, but they're not expecting the royal treatment from the reclusive rock star. "No one expects anything," said Jim Russell, a self­proclaimed "die-hard Prince fanatic," who publishes the Prince fan magazine Controversy and owns more than 1,000 

pieces of Prince memorabilia and recordings. Many convention activities will be held at Glam Slam, the downtown nightclub owned by Prince's bodyguard­turned-manager, Gilbert Davison. Bus tours will take fans to Prince's Paisley Park Studios in suburban Chanhassen and to the purple house where Prince, known for his 1984 smash album "Purple Rain," used to live and his father now resides. 
CAMPUS 
~r~t W ~nf o,me grad djes 
City Athens Atlanta 
Be~ln 
B011ton 
Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston ndlanapotls London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach 
Moscow 
New York 
New Orleans 
Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San Franclsco Seattle South Bend Ta<yo Washington. D.C 
H L 
95 66 78 56 
64 54 
67 43 67 39 81 52 84 52 67 40 87 70 84 58 83 51 61 55 79 63 63 54 
85 75 70 57 73 46 81 62 64 54 77 50 77 54 84 63 89 55 70 53 
611 36 
75 70 78 52 
···:.. 


OF INTEREST 
• South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan will discuss off­campus crime in an open forum today at 5:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life and Rex Rakow, director of Security will also participate in the forum. Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to attend and offer their views about se­curity in the area. 

major who fmished one semester at Saint Mary's before leaving in January due to her illness. Crofton was a 1990 graduate of Foothill High School in Tustin, Calif. She was on the volleyball team in high school and the Toastmasters on campus. A reception will follow the service. 
• N TRE DAME, ln.-South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan will join officials from Notre Dame in a open forum on off-campus crime tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. Kernan, William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life and Rex Rakow, director of Security, will discuss the crime situation in South Hend and the role of the city police department in protecting Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to attend and offer their views about security in the area. Student Government is sponsoring the forum. 
INDIANA 

S U D S arrests 44 at Purdue 
• 
WEST LAFAYETTE, ln.-Joint police patrols for Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S) issued 17 alcohol violations Friday and 25 Saturday as part of in­creased activity for the Purdue-Notre Dame football game. Nineteen arrests were made Friday, 17 for vio­lations including intoxication and minors in possession of alcohol. Police on Saturday arrested 11 minors and 13 juveniles for alcohol-related violations. T.A. Tom's, 125 Pierce St., was issued a warning when six minors inside the tavern were cited for alcohol violations. Thirteen excise police officers, six West Lafayette Police officers and additional state excise police forces from Michigan City and Indianapolis participated in the S.U.D.S. activity. 

• 
SADD will be having a meeting tonight at 6:45 p.m. in the Dooley room in LaFortune. All interested students are welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1923: Scores are killed and hundreds are injured as separatists clash with foes in Dusseldorf. 

• 
In 1927: Babe Ruth hit his 60th home run of the year, a feat never matched in a 154-game season. 

• 
In 1929: First rocket plane, invented by Fritz von Opel, makes successful test flight. 

• 
In 1955: James Dean, an Indiana-born actor and teen idol, was killed when his car careened off a road between Los Angeles and Salinas. 

•In 
1962: Massive riots erupted at the University of Missippippi after James Meredith became the first black student to enroll in an all-white institution. 


Monday, September 30,1991 

The Observer/Rachel Belanger 

The leaves they are a'changin' 
Notre Dame students Darren Knutson and James McGuire start their weekend looking at the changing leave on South Quad Friday. 
Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 
1) The Premedical golf outing at Burke Golf Course will be held this Sunday, October 6 with tee times starting at 10:00 am. The outing is open to all premedical students. Sign up in 239 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
2) If you are interested in peace and are tired of war, please come find out about World Peace Action Group (Formerly Gulf Crisis Action Group) We meet on Wednesday at 7:00 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. All are welcome. 
3) Campus Fellowship will be gathering on October 4 at 7:30 pm in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Roor of LaFortune. If you haven't been to our meetings before please join us for an introductory session at 6:45 pm. 
4) ND/SMC Right to Life will have a mandatory general meeting on October 3 at7:30 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is needed to help out with an upcoming survey. 
MANDY PATINKIN 
IN CONCERT: DRESS CASUAL 
Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend October 4 · 5 
Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. 
Tickets: Eves. -$26.50 $22.50 $17.50 $12.50 Matinee -$23.50 $19.50 $15.50 $12.50 
BOX OFFICE OPEN 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and until curtain on show days. 
PHONE (219) 284-9190 
MasterCard & VISA Group, Student, & Accepted Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
The Observer page 3 
Explosion rocks Soviet Georgia's broadcasting center; fighting flares 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) -An explosion rocked Georgia's broadcasting center Sunday while it was occupied by oppo­nents of President Zviad Gam­sakhurdia, and violence in a breakaway region of the repub­lic reportedly left two dead. 
The evening blast injured at least one person and blew out most of the windows in the four-story building. Opposition leader Tengiz Segua called it a "provocation" by Gamsakhur­dia's forces. Few details were immediately available. 
The explosion came after a day of relative calm in the capi­tal of 1.2 million, and as gov­ernment and opposition leaders were meeting in the Justice Ministry to try to establish an agenda for truce talks. 
Elsewhere in the Soviet Union, tens of thousands of people marched in a solemn 50th-anniversary commemora­tion of the Nazi massacre of Jews at the Babi Yar ravine in the Ukraine. 
In the Central Asian republic of Tadzhikistan, the embattled Communist government called a special session of parliament as an estimated 10,000 people demonstrated in the rain out­side. 
In Moscow, 1,000 people at­tended a memorial service for three men who were killed by soldiers in a clash near the Russian parliament building durmg the failed August coup. 
Mourners vowed never to forget the three, who have been named Heroes of the Soviet Union, the country's highest honor. But people in the crowd also said they believed the Communist Party was still rul­ing their country despite being suspended by President Mikhail 
S. Gorbachev following the Aug. 18-21 coup. 
In the wake of the coup, in­creasing unrest has flared in the republics with the collapse of central authority. 
One rebel Georgian National Guardsman was slightly wounded in a clash overnight outside the television center, which was occupied by the op­position last Sunday, the Tass news agency reported. 
Gunshots were heard in other parts of Tbilisi on Saturday night and Sunday morning, but there were no other reports of injuries. Gamsakhurdia's forces remained in control of most key points in the city, including the Parliament building. 
A few hundred protesters re­mained at the broadcasting center after the explosion, down from thousands in recent days. 
The government-rebel talks were bogged down over an agenda and the question of who would represent the opposition, said Eldar Shengelaya, one of the rebel leaders. 
Both sides are non-commu­nists who seek independence from the Soviet Union. 
The Georgian leader, elected in May, has been accused by the opposition and officials of some Western countries, including the United States, of disre­garding human rights and con­centrating power in his hands. He has severely restricted the press, arrested opposition politicians, and clamped a state of emergency on the capital. 
In the restive South Ossetia region of Georgia, two people 
re killed and four wounded in an overnight attack by Geor­gian militants on the village of Patknet, the Russian Informa­tlon Agency said Sunday. 
Gunfire also broke out in Tskhinvali, capital of the region, which is trying to secede from Georgia. The Ossetian ethnic minority claims it is suffering discrimination at the hands of the Georgian majority. 
The Russian republic's news agency said people were wounded, but it did not know how many. 
Ukrainians, Israelis and Jew­ish leaders from around the world began a weeklong com­memoration of the Nazi mas­sacre at Babi Yar. More than 30,000 Jews were shot to death at the ravine outside Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, on Sept. 29­30, 1941. 
German death squads contin­ued to execute Jews, Commu­nists, Gypsies, homosexuals and others at the ravine for two years. At least 100,000 people, and possibly as twice that number, are believed to have died before the Red army liberated Kiev in 1943. 
One of the Israeli participants in the 50th anniversary com­memoration voiced concern Sunday that Nazi collaborators may be among the 50,000 Ukrainians who have been of­ficially "rehabilitated," or vin­dicated, of Stalin-era crimes since April. 
Shimon Samuels, European director of the Wiesenthal Cen­ter in Jerusalem, said he gave a list of 1,000 suspected collabo­rators to Ukrainian officials for checking. 
In Dushanbe, capital of Tadzhikistan, protesters cov­ered themselves with plastic sheets but did not leave the main square despite drenching rain. 
More than 10,000 people have crowded the square for a week supporting scores of hunger strikers demanding the resignation of Communist President Rakhman Nabiyev. 
A Unique Consulting Firm 
Hewitt Associates 
is visiting the University ofNotre Dame 
We will conduct on-campus interuiews tomorrow and Friday. We will return to campus in February. 
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and actuaries specializing in the design. financl,ng, communication, and administration of employee benefit and compensation programs. We are Included in the publications The 100 Best Com(!anies to Work for in America and The Best Companies for Women. 
We are interested In students with the following majors: 
Accounting Computer Applications Economics Finance Management 
with MIS Concentration Mathematics Mathematics 
with Computer Concentration 
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and intelligent: people who work well together. Our challenge Is to identify and develop those people who can respond to the opportunities of today and tomorrow. 

Hewitt Associates 
Lincolnshire. IL • Santa Ana. CA • Walnut Creek, CA Rowayton. CT • Boston, MA • Bedminster. NJ Atlanta GA • Las Collnas, TX • The Woodlands. TX 
An equal opportunity employer m{f 
' 
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 30,1991 




Cheney 
continued from page 1 
Defense Initiative is needed in a world of nuclear proliferation. 
He defended the B-2 bomber program as necessary to the country's defense and said the armed forces already are in the midst of a massive builddown that will cut their manpower by 25 percent. 
The need to prevail in a re­gional conflict like Operation Desert Storm forms "the basic underlying assumptions by which we size our forces today," said Cheney. 
Nationat.Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft said that "five years out, I think there will be a peace dividend," and "hopefully it will be" sizable. 
But "I honestly don't know how much," said Scowcroft, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Defense spending is heading 
down to 3.6 percent of gross national product, the lowest level since 1939, said Undersec­retary of Defense Paul Wol­fowitz. 
"The United States can afford the programs it needs and still afford an adequate defense," Wolfowitz said on CNN's "Newsmaker Sunday." 
The administration got an expression of support from one Congressional Democrat, Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 

"I do think those who believe we're going to be able to de­clare a peace dividend and have a huge amount of money for domestic purposes are not looking at the fiscal picture of the country," said Nunn. 
"Most of the defense savings are going to have to go to try to meet the deficit, which is growing," added Nunn, speak­ing on CBS's "Face the Nation." 
Nunn also said he doubts the need for 75 B-2 bombers that cost $850 million a piece. 
"The strategic role has been diminished somewhat by the president's speech if we carry through on this action, and I think we have to re-examine the number of B-2s," said Nunn. "I don't think we can afford 75." 
But Nunn added that the B-2's conventional role is "if any­thing, growing more important" because air force bases are closing, and the plane carries a tremendous payload. 


Report 
continued from page 1 
the committee will randomly distribute surveys to an unde­termined percentage of stu­dents from all four colleges, she said. These surveys will be used not only as a data bank for statistics, but to reveal evidence of specific problems. 
"The surveys will allow the committee to find the problems which are of most concern to the students and their educa­tion at Notre Dame," Stohr said. 
"Because the report will be backed up by data and sup­ported by statistical evidence, this document will hopefully cause the University to take in­terest in order to solve the conflicts between teaching and researching at Notre Dame," Stohr concluded. 

The report committee consists of Stohr, student body chief of staff; Joseph Blanco, student body president; Dave Florenzo, student body vice president; John Coffey, student body treasurer; and students from all four colleges as well as the Freshman Year of Studies. 
Student government will pre­sent the report to the Board of Trustees on Feb. 6, 1992. 

ence because listenership is a talk, is dead, and labels know seeking out and supporting If administrative permission factor in acquiring new album that," said Jotz. smaller record labels, said Jotz. for the switch is received, Fla­


WVFI 
releases. The station receives WVFI's problems started last The station has had problems herty expects that the FCC ap­
r 
its music free from both major year when Sire, the largest la­with the administration in the plication will take about a
continued from page 1 
and minor record labels, and bel that caters to college radio, past concerning FCC violations, month to complete and another 
an underground carrier 
many smaller labels are fmding refused to send the station a according to Flaherty. eight months to process. Thus,current system which reaches it too expensive to send music copy of REM's "Out of Time" be­The dining hall was broad­the station would not be on FMonly campus buildings. With
f to stations with a small listen­cause they felt the listenership casting WVFI about a year and until the 1992 school year. 
this system, some dorms may ership, he said. was too small. So far this a half ago when a deejay played The station was founded
receive unclear reception, 
Since record labels have list­semester, Jotz has been turned a song that had been labeled about 45 years ago in a room int while others receive nothing. 
ings of campus radio stations, down by several labels and has "not for airplay." As a result, the football stadium, "literally
Unlike the carrier current 
they know that WVFI is a closed needed to convince several WVFI can no longer be heard in in a closet," according to 
system, the FM signal will 
circuit AM station. "Being AM others to maintain their sup­the dining hall, he said. Flaherty. The format of thereach all campus buildings and is one strike against you, and port. To Flaherty's knowledge, the station has changed over thepossibly a few miles off cam­carrier current is even worse," WVFI has been kept alive so station has had no other prob­years, but Flaherty foresees nopus, according to Flaherty. 
he said. far by making the play list as lems with the administration or change in programming by the
Jotz said he is concerned 
"AM, unless it is sports or varied as possible and actively the FCC. switch to FM.
about reaching a larger audi-
Law 
continued from page 1 
the more he is in trouble with the establishment clause," he said. 
Just as the Founding Fathers stressed separating the gov­ernment and church, lawyers continue to face many difficul­ties in separating religion and law. The more lawyers claim a doctrine is religiously based, the more that doctrine is not accepted in the legal world, ac­cording to Rosenblum. 
Documents rooted in religion tend to cause a conflict between religious and professional judgement, he added. 
The ideal lawyer, he said, combines religious doctrine and legal methodology. 
"We must never lose sight of the importance of religious roots, but in court it's easier to talk about non-religious things," he concluded. 


PROCTER & GAMBLE 
FINANCE 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an 
overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can learn more about you. 



NOTRE DAME RECRUITING 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1991 ,.-' UPPER LOUNGE,UNNERSI1Y CLUB 7:00 -9:00 PM 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES 
OCTOBER 2 & 3, 1991 
Monday, September 30,1991 The Observer page 5 


The ObserwrtRadlel Belanger 

Budding ballerinas 
Notre Dame sophomore Kathy Turner, front, practices ballet in a newly-formed class offered at the Rockne Memorial Friday. Students can join the class, which meets every Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Fighting flared again Sunday in several parts of battle­scarred Croatia, and the federal army surrendered more barracks besieged by militias of the separatist republic. 
The army has been beset by increasing morale problems and mass desertions as the Croatian campaign drags on. This situation could have contributed to a move by the generals to regroup in parts of Croatia where there are large concentrations of ethnic Serbs who support the Serb­dominated army. 
In other developments, Stipe Mesic, the head of Yugoslavia's collective presidency, said after consultations in New York with Javier Perez de Cuellar that the 
U.N. secretary general had offered to negotiate a peaceful end to the crisis. 
A referendum on the independence of Kosovo province was almost complete, with nearly all of the Serb-ruled territory's ethnic Albanian majority expected to opt for sovereignty. 
The voting in Kosovo ended late Saturday, but Albanians born in Kosovo and now living elsewhere continued voting in other Yugoslav towns and abroad. 
Tensions were high in Kosovo, another potential flashpoint of ethnic violence, where at least 100 people have died over the past two years in clashes with 
Special to The Observer 
The Western tradition of teaching architecture through exampie of archetype will be a the theme of a symposium Oct. 3-5 sponsored by the Notre Dame School of Architecture as part of the University's Sesqui­centennial celebration. 
Titled "Sing to Me 0 Muse: Traditions In Paradigmatic Ar­chitectural Education," the symposium will include a series of seven historical lectures fol­lowed by presentations from six prominent architects exploring the traditional teaching method's application today. 
All sessions are free and open to the public and will meet In the Architecture Building on campus. 
According to Gordon Smith, chairman and professor of Ar­chitecture, the symposium will put special emphasis on devel­opments in Europe from the Renaissance through the late nineteenth century. 
During this time, he ex­plained, the Italians, French, and Germans developed codi­fied systems of learning based at first upon respectfully imi-

The_ObserYer 
St. MARv•s PHOTOGRAPHERS 
any students intersted in working as a photographer please contact Margarite 
Schropp x 284-4345 


'[he Observer 
The observer is currently taking applications for the 
PAID POSITION OF : 
TYPESETTER contact Mark Sloan @ 239-7471 
Yugoslav army abandons some barracks in Croatia, fighting flares 
ND will host architecture symposium this weekend 
tating earlier architecture. Ul­timately, they were oriented to developing Inventive solutions to then-contemporary problems within the framework of archl­lecture's organizing principles. 
Twentieth century architects attacked these Renaissance traditions for being based on canonical paradigms and imita­tion instead of newness, said Smith. By the 1940s, most ves­tiges of the paradigmatic ap­proach had broken down, the decisive finishing blow the dis­solution of the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris in the late 1960s. 
New systems of architectural education promoted innovation, often for its own sake, and re­jected having students learn a common language of method both of which were perceived as restrictive. 
These systems have them­selves become regimented, said Smith, and are now serving as the context for new movements in architectural education. 
Notre Dame's School of Ar­chitecture is among a group of schools moving to train stu­dents to learn an architectural lao age and to absorb its vo­
~~~---=~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Castle & Co. 
YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRarr? 
Haircut and Shampoo Reg. student cut $11.00 ~-'·~,..,.; ·Bring In a friend and receive your '"'!.:...,:-~"' ) _ cuts for $9.00 each. \"·· ft ~ ~AWAYFROMCAMPUS 
1 
Closed 

;_<:. ~--~ 272-0312 277-1691 on · Yf;:-. 54S33 Terrace lane 
Mondays 

.....,. ~ Next to PapaJohn's Pizza 

THE NAIL STUDIO 


IR~ 
We are proud to present our nail technicians, who will pamper you with personalized, 
quality service. When you're ready for a change to a more natural looking nails call on The Castle. We're In the spotlight, for performance, precision and elegance. Manicures by Jessica Whirlpool Pedicures 
The Castle 
Just 5 minutes from campus Closed on Mondays 
272-0312 
Regular $55 Student Discount $15 off Now $40 for Full Set of Sculptured Nails St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, 
Suite 1A 


272-8471 

Serbian police. But no major incidents were reported after the arrests Saturday of dozens of referendum organizers and participants. 
In Croatia, sporadic violence continued despite a cease-fire signed last week by Croatian and army leaders. At least six people were reported killed in fighting overnight and Sunday. 
The Croatian Defense Ministry said federal warplanes dropped three bombs on a suburb of the Dalmatian port of Sibenik, damaging buildings in the first air attack in a week. 
The army denied it had bombed Sibenik. 
Late Sunday, Belgrade TV showed grief-stricken villagers from Brlog, 70 miles southwest of Zagreb, and claimed other villagers had been massacred by Croatian militiamen. 
The claim could not be independently verified, and there were no other details. 
More than 600 people have been killed in fighting since Croatia declared independence June 25. The fighting began as clashes between Croatian militias and Serbian fighters in the republic who oppose secession. 
But the Serb-dominated federal army bas become increasingly involved in the combat, leading to accusations by Croatia and others that the military is siding with the Serbian insurgents. 
Fighting was at its fiercest just before the latest cease-fire, with army tanks, navy gunboats and airforce warplanes leading a large offensive on several fronts on the Dalmatian coast and in the republic's northeast. 
Clashes have continued past the cease-fire but in fewer areas than before. 
Croatian officials reported a Croatian guardsman and a civilian killed by artillery fire around the regional capital of Osijek. To the southeast, in the Vinkovci-Vukovar region, republican guardsmen were said to be battling both the army and Serb forces. One person was reported killed and some 30 wounded. 
Among the heaviest fighting Sunday was at Bjelovar, about 40 miles east of Zagreb, Croatia's capital. The Croatian Defense Ministry said three civilians died in crossfire between army units firing from their barracks and Croatian militias surrounding them. 
The officials said the army announced earlier In the day that it was surrendering control of the town's two other barracks to the Croatians. 
Apparently preparing for a similar withdrawal, personnel at Zagreb's Marshall Tlto Barracks were burning documents, said the officials. Army facilities were burning on the islands of Korcula and Privlaka near Split, and the officials said they had been set ablaze by departing armies. 
cabulary and principles, he 
said. 
Other schools moving in this 

direction include the Universi­
ties of Virginia and Miami, and, 
receiving the most attention to 
date, the Prince of Wales' 
Summer School in Architecture 
in Oxford and Rome. 
The symposium's lecturers, in 

addition to Smith, Include In­
grid Rowland, the University of 
Chicago; Andrew Morrow, the 
University of Chicago; Martha 
Pollack, University of Illinois at 
Chicago; Barry Bergdoll, 
Columbia University; David van 
Zanten, Northwestern Univer­
sity; Dennis Doordan, Notre 
Dame; Demetri Porphyrios, a 
London architect; Allen Green­
berg, a Washington, D.C. archi­
tect; Maurice Culot, director of 
the Institut Francais 
d'Architecture in Paris; Carroll 
William Westfall, University of 
Virginia; and William MacDon­
ald, a Washington, D.C. archi­
Lectural historian. 
For symposium schedule in­

formation, contact Alice 
Wesoloski at 239-6137. 
hWatch your hands!" '~Watch your mouth!" 

k******************* 
: Hou,.: Mon. • Fri. 8:00·5:30 :: 
:: Sill. 8:()0.3:00 :: 
:: MAPLE LANE :: 
:: BARBER SHOP::
• 
• 

:: 2112 South Bend Avenue ::* South Bend, IN 46637 * 
! Appointments if Desired ! 
: 272-6722 :: 
...*****************·. 
page6 The Observer Monday, September 30,1991 





Church dissatisfied with Salvadoran convictions 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Church leaders on Sun­day said they are dissatisfied with the conviction of two army officers and acquittal of seven other soldiers in the 1989 massacre of eight people, including six Jesuit priests. 
The jury's decision Saturday came in the rrrst trial against Salvadoran army officers for political killings, eroding a tra­dition of military impunity in such slayings. 
The trial also was a water­shed in relations with the United States. Congress has made successful prosecution of the Jesuits'· killers a condition for continued aid to El Sal­vador's rightist government. 
Washington has provided hundreds of millions of dollars in a nearly 12-year-old war against leftist guerrillas that has killed more than 75,000 people, mostly civilians. Many were slain by death squads. 
Monsignor Gregorio Rosa Chavez, auxiliary Roman Catholic bishop of San Sal­vador, said "the church is not satisfied" that only two of nine military men were convicted for the murders of six priests, their housekeeper and her daughter. 
Rosa Chavez said the church does not believe that "the real authors of this crime have been convicted ... the decision has to more wide-reaching." 
Father Jose Maria Tojeira, Jesuit Provincial for Central America, said: "I'm not overly bothered by the acquittal of those of lower rank, though I believe there was sufficient evidence to convict them. I believe it is correct that the jury placed the blame going upward in rank, and we should keep looking up the ranks for more of those responsible." 
President Alfredo Cristiani declined to give his opinion of the verdict Sunday. "The jury made that decision, and it has to be accepted," he told re­porters. 
There was no immediate comment from the U.S. gov­ernment. 
Army Col. Guillermo Bena­vides, believed to be the man that ordered the massacre, was the only one convicted for the murders of the priests. Lt. Yusshy Mendoz was convicted of the murder of 15-year-old Celina Ramos, the daughter of the priests' housekeeper. The two officers face sentences of 20 to 30 years in prison. 
But the jury also acquitted seven lower-ranking soldiers -two lieutenants, two sergeants, a corporal and two privates -who by their own admission carried out the gruesome massacre, in which the corpses were mutilated. 
Benavides was director of the National Military College on Nov. 16, 1989, when the priests were killed at their residence. The other eight defendants -one of whom is a fugitive and was tried in absentia -formed part of a 35-man detail that raided the Central American University earlier the same day. 
The slain priests were administrators and professors at the Jesuit-run school. Several had long been considered subversive ideologues by the far right, which includes many military officers. The priests were killed on the sixth day of major rebel offensive. 
Jim McGovern, an aide to 
U.S. Rep. Joe Moakley (D­Mass), said: "There's a certain sense of justice that Benavides was convicted, because he gave the orders. But it's disappointing that people who have committed such a brutal murder go free." 
Second Exxon settlement reached 
JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) -A second settlement has been reached in government lawsuits against Exxon Corp. over the nation's largest oil spill, a spokesman for Gov. Walter J. Hickel said Sunday. 
Details of the settlement were being withheld until a formal announcement Monday at the governor's Anchorage office, spokesman Eric Rehmann said. · 
An earlier settlement, an­nounced in March, fell apart when a federal judge rejected the criminal plea bargain and the Alaska House voted down the entire agreement. 
Negotiations between Exxon, the state and federal govern­ment resumed earlier this month. The trial of federal criminal charges against Exxon over the Exxon Valdez spill is scheduled to begin Oct. 7 in An­chorage. 
Exxon spokesman Bill Smith in Irving, Texas, declined to comment on the new settle­ment. Justice Department spokesman Doug Krovisky in Washington said he was unaware of any settlement or announcement. 

Under the previous settle­ment, Exxon and a subsidiary agreed to plead guilty to four misdemeanors and pay a record $100 million fine. Two felony pollution charges would have been dropped. 
Exxon also would have paid $900 million over 11 years to restore damaged natural re­sources. That money would have settled the state's civil claims against Exxon and any future claims by the federal government. But it wouldn't have affected private lawsuits seeking a total of $59 billion in damages from the oil giant. 
The settlement would have been the largest of an environ­mental damage case in U.S. history. It would have provided immediate cash to continue the spill cleanup and avoided years of lengthy and costly court battles. 
Opponents argued the crimi­nal fine was inadequate consid­ering Exxon's wealth and the damage its tanker caused. They also noted the settlement's true value was far less than $1 bil­lion because of the effects of in­flation over the 11-year payout period. 
Pressure has been building on Exxon to settle the government litigation. In the past two weeks, fishermen, landowners, cannery workers, Native Alaskans and other private in­terests agreed to drop their spill lawsuits against the state and federal government. That meant a united front of plain­tiffs suing Exxon. 
In exchange for dropping the lawsuits, the governments agreed to share with the private plaintiffs their research on the spill's damage and Exxon's liability. 
The tanker Exxon Valdez spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil in Prince William Sound when it slammed into a reef on March 24, 1989. The oil killed countless fish and thou­sands of marine birds and mammals. 

Aquino acknowledges base lease defeat 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­President Corazon Aquino on Sunday acknowledged for the first time that a new lease for a 
U.S. naval base had been de­feated, and said she would fo­cus on arranging an "orderly withdrawal." 
About 3,000 residents of Olongapo, garrison city of the Subic Bay naval base, rallied in. rain outside Subic's main gate to denounce the 12 senators who had voted to close the in­stallation. 
During her weekly radio pro­gram, Aquino urged the Senate to come up with a reasonable schedule for the Americans to vacate the base, which they have used since 1898. 
"All have agreed that it is re­ally a withdrawal since we al­ready have a rejection of the treaty," she said. 

On Sept. 16, the Senate voted 12-11 to reject a new agree­ment under which the United States would give up its other major Philippine installation, Clark Air Base, but keep Subic for 10 more years in return for giving $203 million a year in aid. 
Clark was to have been aban­doned anyway because of dam­age from the Mount Pinatubo eruption. 
Aquino appeared soon after­ward on U.S. television net­works to announce a "people power referendum" to overturn the Senate action. But she backed away from that call when constitutional experts and most of her longtime supporters claimed a referendum would be ineffective. 
She said, however, she would support a referendum if "the people" wanted one. A group of rich businessmen and central Luzon politicians have launched a campaign to collect the 3.5 million signatures required for a referendum. 
Otherwise, there seems little popular enthusiasm for saving the base, except in areas such as Olongapo that depend on the Americans for their livelihood. 
In Olongapo, a city of about 300,000 people 50 miles west of Manila, a group of business­men, city officials and prosti­tutes turned out for Sunday's rally in support of the base. 
Mayor Richard Gordon ad­dressed the rally, and between naming each of the 12 senators, asked the crowd, "What do you want to do?" 
"Burn him at the stake," the crowd shouted back. 

THIS WEEK 
ONEMA AT THE SNITE MON 
7:00 THE CONYERSA TION 
GENE HACKMAN 
9:15 THE BIG SLEEP HUMPHREY BOGART 
7:00 THE LEITER BE'ITE DAVIS 
9:15 BLACK RAIN 
MICHAEL OOUGLAS (1bis film replaces ffiade Runner) 
FRI& CYRANO DE SAT BERGERAC 7,!M5 GERARD DEPARDIEU 
Guatemalan Imports •Vests •Shirts 
•Hooded Bajas 
•Fanny Packs ·Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats, belts, purses, barrettes &headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing & much, much more! Saint Mary's College Sept 30 -Oct 4 10am -5pm Located In front of 
Haggar (Rain Place: LeMans Hall) 

Looking for a chance to move in the diploma and your drive to succeed. See your Marine Corps Officer If you've got what it takes, you Selection Officer when he visits your
fast Jane? Then check out Marine 
Corps Aviation. The training is su­could be at the controls of anything campus or call him, at perb. The challenges are unique. from a Cobra to a Harrier to the the number listed Your ticket to fty is your college hottest thing flying, the 
F-18 Hornet. below, today. ~~~~~ 
Capt. Tom O'Connell will be at the Lafortune Center, Ohara Lounge from 10:00-2:00 tomorrow. Stop by for more information or call 1-800-875-8762. 
Monday, September 30,1991 
IUSB tries for Coke property 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Indiana University trustees have decided to pursue legal action to acquire property owned by Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Indiana. 
IU plans to use a 56,000­square-foot building located on 2 3/4 acres of land owned by Coca-Cola in the midst of the university's South Bend campus for construction of a classroom and office building. 
Attempts by IU adminis­trators to negotiate purchase of the Coca-Cola property at Its appraised value were unsuccessful. 
The trustees on Saturday authorized university president Thomas Ehrlich to request the consent of Gov. Evan Bayh's office to acquire the property by condemnation. 
IU wants the property for additional classrooms and office space for the South Bend campus. The Legislature this year authorized bonding authority of $16.5 million to pay for the structure. 
"This property is needed as the site of a building that is vitally Important to the future of the campus," IU-South Bend chancellor Daniel Cohen said. 
Cohen said the South Bend campus anticipates an increase In student enrollment that will reach 12,000 within 10 years. 
1 he Ubserver page 7 

Calif. gay rights bill vetoed by Wilson 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) ­Gov. Pete Wilson on Sunday ve­toed a bill that would have out­lawed job discrimination against homosexuals. He said it could have led to unjustified lawsuits. 
The Republican governor had been heavily lobbied by conservatives and religious groups, who had sent over 100,000 letters to his office in recent weeks. But he denied that the lobbying campaign in­fluenced him, saying some op­ponents' excesses "strongly tempt me to sign the bill." 
"I regret ... any false comfort that may be derived from (the veto) by the tiny minority of mean-spirited, gay-bashing bigots," Wilson said. 
Wilson said that if the bill by Assemblyman Terry Friedman of Sherman Oaks had simply declared job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation to be illegal, "it could be easily accepted." 
But Wilson said the measure contained a complicated for­mula for remedies for discrimi­nation victims. That, he said, would "create burdens upon employers, both guilty and in­nocent" by opening the door to unjustified lawsuits, higher business insurance costs and other unknowns. 
He said existing laws already prohibit employers from dis­criminating on the basis of ho-
Blacks are overrepresented on death row 
WI\.';IliNGTON (AP) -Amid a congressional debate on how to Impose the death penalty, the Justice Department reported Sunday that blacks still make up a much larger share of Death How inmates than of the nation's population. 
The department's Bureau of Justice Statistics said that as of Dec. 31, 1990, blacks com­prised 40 percent of prisoners awaiting death penalties. The 1990 census found the U.S. population Is 12.1 percent black. 
In 1987, the Supreme Court ruled that statistical evidence of discrimination is insufficient to render death penalty statutes unconstitutional. 
That ruling came in the case of Warren McCleskey, a black man who was executed last Wednesday in the Georgia elec­tric chair for the killing of a white Atlanta policeman during a 1978 furniture store robbery. 
Last week, the House Judi­ciary Committee approved and sent to the House floor a bill allowing legal challenges to death sentences based on sta­tistical showings of race dis­crimination. The Senate re­jected a similar provision last summer. 
Under prodding from the Bush administration, both House and Senate crime bills would greatly expand the fed­eral death penalty -to cover some 50 new crimes. 
The Justice Department study found 2,356 prisoners awaiting death penalties at year-end, up 5 percent from the previous year. Thirty-two of them were women, and the median age was 34. 
At the time of the study, 34 states and the federal govern­ment had death penalties on the books, but Colorado's has since been struck down by the state supreme court. 
or those condemned to die, 1,375, or 58.4 percent, were white, 943 or 40 percent were black, 24 or 1 percent were American Indian and 14 or 0.6 percent were Asian. Those of Hispanic ethnic origin totaled 172, or 7.3 percent. In the prison study, as in Census com­pilations, people of Hispanic origin are counted in other ra­cial categories: black, white or other. 
The 1990 Census found that the U.S. population was 80.3 
percent white, 12.1 percent black, 0.8 percent American In­dian, 2.9 percent Asian and 3.9 percent other races. Within those various racial designa­tions, 9 percent are of Hispanic origin. 
The study released Sunday did not attempt to calculate what percentage of the overall 
U.S. federal and state prison system population is comprised of black people. 
Death penalties were over­turned in the United States by the Supreme Court's 1972 Furman decision, because of arbitrariness and evidence of race discrimination. Beginning in 1976, the Supreme Court has upheld a series of death penal­ties, redrawn to address the concerns of the Furman deci­sion. 
GENERAL MILLS 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING 
Tuesday, October 1st 8:00-10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come and talk about career opportunities at General Mills. 
mosexual orientation, affiliation with gay organizations or for advocating gay political causes. 
"California should and does presently treat sexual orienta­tion as a private matter, pro­tected by the express right of privacy contained in the Cali­fornia Constitution, and entitled to legal protection in several specific areas," Wilson wrote. 
Friedman condemned Wil­son's veto as "a victory for bigotry" and "an outrageous cave-in to right-wing extremists and fundamentalist fringe groups." 
He said Wilson's contention that it would be an unjust bur­den on law-abiding businesses was just a political smoke screen. 
Wilson had said earlier this year he would probably sign the bill. But there was strong op­position from the GOP's right wing, and the state Republican Party formally urged him to veto it. 
Bill opponents threatened to put the issue on next June's ballot through a referendum, which could have created prob­lems for Sen. John Seymour, whom Wilson appointed to suc­ceed him in the U.S. Senate. Seymour, a moderate, is run­ning in June's Hepublican pri­mary against conservative Rep. William Dannemeyer. 
Jet makes emergency landing 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) -A 
United Airlines plane lost oil 
pressure in one engine and 
made an emergency landing 
Sunday at Mid-Continent Air­
port, authorities said. None of 
the 52 people aboard was in­
jured. 
Flight 388, a Boeing 737 

bound from Denver to Spring­
field, Mo., diverted to Wichita 
after developing problems In Its 
left engine, said Gene Gautiere, 
Federal Aviation Administra­
tion duty officer in Kansas City. 
The pilot told passengers one 
engine had lost oil pressure 
and had been shut down, said 
passenger Dan Shelley, news 
manager at radio station KITS­
AM in Springfield. 
Emergency equipment was 

on the scene when the plane 
landed. As the plane taxied to a 
stop, the passengers burst into 

applause, said. 
London $~79* Brussels $U9* Frankfurt $305* Hong Kong $4!5* Sydney $635* 
•Fa-es a-e each Wily from Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. TaKes not included <Yld restrictions apply Call for other v.orldwide destinations, boltl one Wily and rOU'ldtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

cau For A Free 1991 Student Travel ca..logl 

U.N. nuclear inspectors to leave Iraq after standoff 
page 8 The Observer Monday, September 30,1991 
Star Noriega witness has Contra arms-for-drugs link 
MIAMI (AP) -The prosecu­tion's star witness against former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega has links to U.S.-supported guns-for-drugs flights in aid of the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, a government source says. 
Panamanian drug pilot Floyd Carlton, 42, currently in the 
U.S. witness protection pro­gram, took the stand last week and is expected to resume testi­fying Monday in Noriega's drug and racketeering trial. 
Carlton provided the lion's share of evidence leading up to Noriega's February 1988 in­dictment. Last week he gave the most damning trial testimony against Noriega so far, tying him directly to drug payoffs and relating conversations between the two men about cocaine flights. 
But Carlton also provides Noriega's defense with its first opportunity to contend that the United States had links of its own to Central American drug trafficking, by working with Florida-based smugglers flying arms to the Contras and re­turning with cocaine. 
Noriega's defense has long claimed that he was doing U.S. bidding in many undercover op­erations in Panama, especially In aid of the Contras. Prosecu­tors say, however, that Nor­iega's claims are simply a 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) _ 
U.N. nuclear inspectors who spent five days in a Baghdad parking lot in a standoff with lraqi officials were preparing Sunday to leave the country. 
The team is expected in Bahrain on Monday. 
Meanwhile, another group of weapons inspectors, whose job is to track down Iraqi missiles and missile launchers, was due to leave Bahrain for Baghdad on Tuesday. 
That group could become the first U.N. inspection team to make independent helicopter flights to conduct their work, 
which has been another source of conflict between the Iraqis, the United Nations and Western powers. 
Still another United Nations team arrived Sunday in Kuwait to carry out a land survey of the smokescreen designed to cloud his private drug-smuggling transactions. 
Through at least 1985, Carl­ton used the Miami-based avia­tion firm DIASCA as a cover for drug flights through Central America, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration and his own testimony before a 
U.S. Senate investigating committee. 
"DIASCA was working with the Contras and flying cocaine to the United States at the same 
time,"  said  a  government  
source  in  Washington  who  
spoke  on  condition  of  

anonymity. "And the State De­partment was giving aid to DI­ASCA." 
The State Department legally funded humanitarian aid to the Contras through a variety of companies in the mid 1980s, but the agency's operations center had no immediate reac­tion to the DIASCA report Sun­day, spokesman D. Bard told The Associated Press. 
Prosecutors expect the de­fense to grill Carlton on DIASCA and his links to the Contras in cross examination this week, the federal source said. 
Carlton testified before a Se­nate committee that he flew drugs through a ranch owned by John Hull on the Costa Rican border with Nicaragua -a ranch former CIA station chief 
desert border between Iraq and midday Tuesday until early 
Kuwait, a U.N. official said. The border dispute was among the Iraqi pretexts for last August's invasion of Kuwait. 
This weekend, the nuclear in­spection team finished cata­loging key documents detailing Iraq's secret nuclear arms pro­srram. The inspectors will keep the documents, but the catalogs will be turned over to the Iraqis. 
That inventory, demanded by Iraqi authorities, provided a compromise to end the parking 
lot siege, which was one ofthe 
most dramatic confrontations 
between Saddam Hussein's 
government and the West since 
the Gulf War ended nearly 
seven months ago. 
Armed Iraqi soldiers sur­
rounded the 44 inspectors from 

RACQUETBALL SINGLES IHMEN IHWOMEN GRAD/FACMEN GRAD/FACWOMEN 
CO-REC INNERTUBE WATERPOLO 
CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE · 
DEADLINE -OCTOBER 2 
Thomas Castillo has testified was used to supply Contra rebels. 
Confessed drug pilots George Morales and Gary Betzner used that airstrip to deliver guns to the Contras and pick up U.S.­bound cocaine, they have told. The Associated Press and con­gressional committees. 
Morales testified he worked with two Costa Rica-based Con­tra leaders, Adolfo Chamorro and Octaviano Cesar, to arrange guns-for-drugs flights. 
Chamorro was forced to quit his post as Nicaraguan consul in Miami last year after a gov­ernment witness in a trial in Oklahoma identified him as a drug contact. 
In the summer of 1984, the two Contras needed $100,000 to set up their drug network, Morales said -and the gov­ernment agreed during Oliver North's legal proceedings that Noriega gave $100,000 to two unnamed Contra leaders in July 1984. 
Carlton at the same time was building his drug network through Hull's ranch, according to the DEA. 
Noriega faces up to 140 years in prison on the 10 counts he faces growing out of a February 1988 indictment. He sur­rendered to U.S. troops in Jan­uary 1990 following the inva­sion of Panama. 
Saturday. The U.N. team re­fused to give up the documents and huddled in their bus and 
six cars, frequently using a 
satellite telephone to update 
their superiors and the news 
media on developments. 
The U.N. Security Council 
demanded Iraq's complete co­
operation with the disarma­
ment process, as agreed to in 
the April 3 cease-fire resolu­
tion, and issued hints of possi­
ble military action if the im­
passe continued. 
U.N. officials say the docu­ments contain records of an ex-

ASTRONG PARTNERSHIP 
AND 

Last year, GE hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent under the Dome. 
Sop by the Placement Office and get. all the details. 
• 
Invitational Sign-up: 
September 3D-October 1 
Open Sign-up: October 14--15 
World ofopportunity. An equal opportunity employer Campus Interviews: November 7-..-!0 
tensive clandestine project to 
build nuclear weapons, contra-
dieting Iraq's repeated denials 
it had such a program. 
David Kay, the American head 
of the U.N. team, said the 
inspectors retained all the doc­
uments. 
The U.N. Special Commission 
charged with overseeing elimi­
nation of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction has its area headquarters in Bahrain. The inspectors use the Gulf island nation as an assembly point to prepare their trips into Iraq. 
The ballistics missile team, consisting of 20 member and 

The Observer/Rachel Belanger 

Photos of war 
A visitor to the Snite Museum looks at the photography of Notre Dame graduate, Steve Moriarty. The photos depicting the ravages of the civil war in El Salvador will be on display until Nov. 24 

There's a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology leadership, strong fmancial performance and a management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
headed by American Douglas Englund, plans to search for more than two dozen Scud mis­sile launchers close to the Syr­ian border. 
Those were the launchers used to fire missiles at Israel during the Gulf war. 
Iraq agreed last week to allow 
U.N. helicopters to make surveillance flights. Rolf Ekeus, the head of UNSCOM in New York, said the United Nations agreed to allow an Iraqi to go along on each helicopter but retained the right to make unannounced flights to sus­pected weapons sites. 

Business 
page 9

Monday, September 30, 1991 

IMF grants Soviet Union 'special associate' status 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The the IMF and its sister organiza-in helping the Soviet Union Soviet Union is expected to be-tion, the World Bank. Only transform to a free-market come a "special associate" of member countries qualify for economy. the International Monetary loans. However, Treasury Secretary Fund soon, giving the country While the Soviets have Nicholas Brady criticized the at least a foot in the 155-nation applied formally for full IMF for exhibiting lending agency, senior IMF of-membership in the IMF, they "bureaucratic inertia" and ficials say. have not applied for the lesser moving too slow in getting 
All that remains to be done is "associate status." But IMF technical help to the Soviets. for the Soviets to make a formal officials said they expected the Responding to the criticism, request for the new status, request for associate status to IMF officials stressed that they something that fund officials come very soon. were ready to move Immedi­said could come in early Octo-"The special associate status ately to set up an IMF office in her. for the Soviet Union could be Moscow with experts in balance 
The IMF's executive board approved in a matter of days of payments problems, fiscal cleared away the fmal hurdles and the program could start affairs and economic statistics. to granting the newly created immediately, helping them with "It is my strong wish to start status to the Soviets at a meet-technical assistance," said a all of that in the next few days, ing in Washington last senior IMF official, who spoke provided we have the fu II Wednesday. As a special asso-on condition of anonymity. agreement of the authorities in elate, the Soviets will qualify to Under a plan approved at this the Soviet Union," the senior tap into the IMF's considerable year's seven-nation economic official said. expertise in helping troubled summit in London, the Soviets IMF officials spoke to re­economies. were to be given associate stu­porters at a background meet­
However, the designation will tus in both the IMF and the ing in advance of the Oct. 15-17 not grant the Soviets what they World Bank and those two annual meeting of the IMF and covet most -direct loans from agencies were to take the lead World Bank. 
New taxes and laws bring changes to several U.S. states 
(AP)-Several states start a new month Tuesday with new taxes, tax increases or new laws such as one that makes Florida the first state with a constitutionally mandated three-day waiting period for handgun purchases. 
"It'll be a watershed date," said state Rep. Thomas Luby of Connecticut, where an income tax starts nipping at paychecks for the first time. The state's sales tax goes down from 8 to 6 percent, but it's expanded to everything from Turkish baths to tanning salons, debt counsel­ing to diet services. 
Connecticut also will become the fourth state with a law prohibiting discrimination in housing, credit and employment on the basis of sexual orienta­tion. Hawaii, Massachusetts and Wisconsin have such laws. 
In addition, adultery will be decriminalized, convicted felons will be barred from possessing guns and the state will get an official fossil. 
Florida becomes the first state to put a waiting period for handgun purchases into its constitution. Other states and cities have waiting periods, though, and even supporters play down its potential effects. 
"It will probably save a few people in our state, maybe a husband who gets into a scrape with his wife and decides, 'I'm going to get a gun,"' said pros­ecutor Willie Meggs in Talla­hassee. "It's not going to have any impact at all on street crime." 
The waiting period is among dozens of Florida state laws taking effect Tuesday. Others include statewide bingo regula­tion, inclusion of sexual orien­tation in an anti-hate crimes law and the end to an 18 per­cent interest rate cap on credit cards issued by Florida banks and department stores. 
Pennsylvania's sales tax rate does not change, but the 6 per­cent levy is being extended to items and services including lobbying, pest control, premium cable television, long-distance telephone service, some house­hold paper goods and soaps. 
HEY FIGHTING IRISH 
Look Who's Got The 
Best Deals On Campus! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL

PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS

$4 MORE! 
AVAILABLE 

LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at :participatin~;~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE TWO SMALL PEPPERONI 

ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS

PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE 

OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REOUIRED. 
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
Valid at :participatinl;l stores only. Not valid with any other offer. ~livery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday September 30, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader commends Lyons for Safe Haven action 
Dear Editor: In my opinion, the frrst prob­ternal turmoil and in fear of abound; considering that these small step in the right direction 
I would like to commend the lem is one that this memo is at­expressing their true selves should have been left behind -a step that Lewis and Farley Lyons Hall co-presidents, Sarah tempting to remedy. That is, might finally be comfortable centuries ago, it seems as have already decided not to Fitzpatrick and Jennifer Schus­the reason for not including the enough to "come out of the though similar preconceptions take. ter, for their tactful treatment of memo as an item for discussion closet.." Or even if they did not about homosexuals will be with Lyons' co-presidents are ac­the memo sent out by Michael (as Lewis' council did) or for admit their sexual orientation us for years to come. tively showing, through serious Vore to all hall presidents deciding against it with little openly, they might at least feel The only comment I have to discussion of the issue, that regarding "Safe Havens." I thought (as did the council of some degree of personal solace. people who hold such views is a they are dedicated to helping to reacted with great disap­Farley Hall) might be that the If any of Farley's or Lewis' question: If you realized that eradicate these problems. My pointment to the handling of the presidents of these two halls resid,ents are homosexual, I someone close to you were ho­own hall also demonstrated that issue by the councils of Farley assume that there are no ho­certainly sympathize with them mosexual, would you immedi­it acknowledges and accepts the Hall and Lewis Hall. mosexuals in the dorms, so the -just think how this decision ately disregard all that brought homosexuals residing therein 
The actions of these councils memo was not pertinent. must make them feel! you close to the person and es­by immediately passing the indicate to me that the people As for the second problem, trange yourself from him/her memo last week. that comprise them suffer from This should not be assumed! there sadly seems to be no based on the sole basis of I hope that other halls, before one of two problems: either Just because someone does not completely effective remedy for his/her sexual orientation? deciding too quickly against the they do not believe the issue "act" homosexual does not nec­the widespread disease of ho­idea of "Safe Havens," will look would affect the residents of essarily indicate that one is not. mophobia. Some people have I fervently hope, perhaps to the examples of Siegfried and these dorms, or they have a Most gays do not feel comfort­preconceived negative notions naively, that most people would Lyons Halls, and will seriously homophobic attitude and are able enough with their lifestyle about gays ingrained frrmly in answer "no." And those that do reflect upon the considerations trying to say in a polite way that to admit it openly; indeed, many them, and it is a hard task to should subsequently agree that I have raised in this letter. they do not condone ho­make a concentrated effort to even begin to discount these homophobia needs to be mosexuality and will not desig­appear heterosexual. beliefs. lessened in our society. Though Kirsten M. Dunne nate their dormitories as places Were this memo passed, such Ideas that women and mi­the "Safe Haven" idea is by far Siegfried Hall free of this prejudice. people who live in a state of in-norities are inferior still not a cure-all, it would be one Sept. 18, 1991 
ND/SMC relationship should n~:lt be described as co-dependent 
Dear Editor: the importance of dispelling dedicated to the education of the only means by which such a satisfied with the choice made 
After reading Brendan Re­ignorance. women. student could obtain that de­when deciding where to go to gan's Inside Column of Septem­Secondly, your analogy is gree. On the other hand, there college, there is no need to put ber 20, 1991, we have to make faulty. Maybe you are confused. are students at Saint Mary's down other institutions and some comments. While the cheerleaders would who can honestly say Notre students. 
First, may we suggest Mr. not exist without the football Dame's contribution to their The SMC-ND communities Regan read the book "Co-De­team, this is not the case with education is, in fact, nonexis-need not be united. Some mu­pendent No More" because his tual respect would be nice, but misuse of the word co-depen­if people like you insist on dent is disturbing. A co-depen­bashing Saint Mary's, that is dent is, among other character­your choice. This decision will istics, a person who is an en­result in your loss-the Joss of abler and someone who fre­the opportunity to experience a quently cheers for the under­great institution and the loss of dog. the opportunity to build rela­
Since Mr. Regan is so con­tionships with 1700 interesting, vinced of Saint Mary's subordi­worthwhile women. What a nate status, surely Notre Dame SMC-ND. Saint Mary's does not regard. Saint waste. 
is the only institution with depend on ND for its existence. tion to the education of a Notre enough influence to be co-de­A look into history will Dame student interested in ob­Melissa Petersmarck pendent. Please read this book, demonstrate to you that Saint tainin:g a degree in education is LeMans Hall Mr. Regan. Attending an insti­Mary's refused to merge with not as incidental as you would Amy Rossmiller tution as dedicated to education ND and decided to remain an like to think. LeMans Hall as Saint Mary's is has taught us independent institution In fact, Saint Mary's would be Sept. 24, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
things. 
In closing, we have one ques­tion for Mr. Regan. What is this obsession with transforming the SMC-ND relationship into one of power-over? If one is truly 
'It I were given the opportunity to present a gift to the next generation, it would be the ability for each individual to learn to laugh at himself.' 
Charles Schultz 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief 
Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-s Editor ••••••••••••.•.•..••.•.Monica Yant Advertising Manager •••••.Julie Sheridan Vi-point Editor••••.••...••...••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..•..••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor •••••••••••••••••••.John O"Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •..••..•...Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ......••..•. Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
l'M FED UP! I'VE \1/M}[DYJJ AC:A!N AND AGf.JN 1b APHERE 1b THE U.N. RE9JLUTl~ A® DISCONTINUE 'PUR 
HO;TILE N'UJ DE;i'OOU: !7.ING AC11VITIE0 
IN THE RE.GlON. I'M ]lfRAJD l HAVE NJ CHOJCE··:-· 

I MeAN, WHAT t(IA5 I '3UPP05f50 7D oor ON~ MOMENT; I'M 
THINKiNG tue'!?b HAPPil--Y R&l./NilW... 
\ 
7H~ N&XT MOM/3NT; A 
t:¥WA O&AN&YUJOI<­
AUI</3 5HCYA/5 UP.trrOUR /}()()I<S1fP 5AYING 5H&S a:t:/lJW 5H/31A/ANT5 70 
FI6HT FOR 'rOU.' 
\ 

OI{}N'T IT MAI<b OH, M&7HAT D.P. .. MUOIMOR/3 
~IRABJ,&? 
/ 

P---------------~~----~.....--~Ea~------------------------------~----~----------------------~--...~
I 
I 
Viewpoint
Monday, September 30, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Drunken pigs' best describes ND students at football game 
Dear Editor: Dame family promptly offered derage because I'd taught them 
As a fourth year graduate the obviously ill fan more beer Freshman Composition. student, I have always consid­to drink, and one fme, upstand­I know this letter will do ered the Notre Dame football ing youth pretended to lick up nothing to change the condi­season one of the highlights of the vomit as a form of enter­tions in the stands for those of the fall. I particularly liked go­tainment for his friends. An­us who actually want to watch Ing to home games because of other student role model the game, nor will young men the excitement and exuberance amused the fans by "dancing" and women who obviously can­of the student fans. around the puke. not hold their liquor decide to 
At the Michigan State game Perhaps this sounds funny to drink more moderately because this Saturday, however, I had the readers; the smell was not, of me. trouble figuring out if I was at a nor were the chunks of.regurgi­But maybe some of the football game or amid the tated food and stale whisky that "merry-makers" will realize derelicts at a sleazy bar. had been sprayed on the seats that there is a better way to 
I was seated around juniors of several spectators. cheer the Irish on to victory and seniors In the stands. The An obvious objection to my than by stinking up the stands fact that almost every student letter will probably be the alle­with their puke. I hear so many immediately surrounding me gation that I am simply too complaints about how students had a can of beer or a flask did uptight to handle the can't stand being treated like not particularly bother me (I "highjinks" of "spirited" Irish babies and how the alcohol pol­was a college student once my­fans. On the contrary, none of icy is too restrictive; it looks to self, and certainly not above the students in my area seemed me as if the policy isn't nearly such acts). aware that a game was in strict enough. Children who 
There is a great difference, progress on the field. drink so much that they're however, between having a beer Instead of exuding that vomiting by 12:45 in the after­and becoming a public nui­"classy Notre Dame tradition," noon are not mature, but a dis­sance. And when the student the students looked more to me grace to themselves and to the next to me proceeded to vomit like "drunken pigs." I know school they attend. all over himself and the stands, they were drinking because I Susan S. Blaha my patience began to run out. saw them do so; moreover, I O'Hara-Grace 

Helpful members of the Notre know some of them were un-Sept. 22, 1991 
Du Lac is not enough to protect gays Americans were not only 
Dear Editor: themselves in its protective individual consumption" of One cannot help but note the mantle vis a vis the "safe 
alcohol ordinance (page 35); casualties of Gulf War 
Irony -for lack of a better word haven" resolution. realizing full well, however, that -In that many of the very same I simply hope that the "sexual those who live by the double Dear Editor: domestic issues, the quote students who, just two weeks orientation" protection which standard, shall eventually die illustrates the troubling and ago, decried the purportedly "safe haven" opponents by the double standard ... In the September 19, 1991 seemingly pervasive view that Increased usurpation of so­proclaim to be guaranteed by edition a staff writer quotes Iraqis (and Arabs more called "student rights" in the this document (page 49) will Craig B. McKee Dave McCurty as saying "More generally) do not qualify as 
revised and expanded version meet with at least as much Hesburgh Library people were murdered in "people" any more than the 
of du Lac, are now wrapping compliance as the "responsible Sept. 25, 1991 Washington, D.C. alone during Vietnamese, Cambodians, or the Gulf War than were killed in Laotians did in another all too combat." recent exercise in madness. 
Given the magnitude of Iraqi It is this mentality that losses in the war, such a justifies genocide in the name statistic (if true) can apply only national security. to Americans (and, perhaps, our mercenary allies). Benjamin Radcliff 
While I have no quarrel with Assistant Professor McCurty's contention that we Off-campus need to focus more attention on Sept. 19,1991 
Violent police are failing in duty 'to serve and protect' 
Dear Editor: servant of God to execute wrath local high school. For one ter next to the clinic on the in all innocence, "We are the 
Hearing about the Los Ange­on the wrongdoer." Contained school week I went with several same day. law and whatever we tell you to les police mercilessly beating up in their oath is the friends to pass out Christian It was late in the day and do, you must do." a man without just cause has understanding that whoever literature on the public side­everything had quieted down I understood this to mean that 
rekindled memories of my breaks it will himself incur the walk, finishing a few minutes when suddenly someone came the police are the law and younger years growing up near wrath of God. before the first bell rang. Ev­into the center reporting whatever command they issue, Madison, Wisconsin in the When I left Wisconsin to come erything had gone very several people, praying silently if not promptly obeyed, will 1960's. At that time many peo­to school at Notre Dame, I smoothly all week. in the rain on our property, had result in an infraction of the ple became angry at the ex­noticed a difference between As I was getting into my car to been arrested. The arresting law. Then if the supposed cesses of certain members of Madison and South Bend in the go to work on our last day a officer had snatched the big lawbreaker resists the ensuing the police force towards the cit­relationship between the police plainclothes South Bend police cross they were holding and arrest, an additional charge of izens who were engaged in law­and the people. The police here officer, who was working at the smashed it into pieces. This resisting arrest might well be ful protest. seemed to be a little more au­school as a security guard, ar­particularly grieved us in the made. Surely this can only be Many citizens began to thoritarian and negative in their rested me in a fit of rage for center because, not only were true in a state of martial law! demand that these particular attitudes. Here also, the people what I knew to be no legal rea­their first amendment rights As I had learned in my early officers either do their job right tolerate and almost expect this son. After getting out of jail I violated, but their beloved reli­years: police excesses can occur or be fired. The police simply kind of behavior and attitude. found a prominent lawyer who gious symbol was desecrated. due to the weakness of human had no choice even In tough While I was a student at Notre counseled me that I could sue This same officer also pro­nature. Therefore, in order for situations but to treat the Dame I lived for a month in the the city for large sum of money. ceeded to arrest a Minister on the rule of law to prevail, the protestors according to the law. house of the captain of the However, after some thought our property who was merely citizens must be vigilant to po­
I learned, first that eternal homicide division. After some and prayer, my friends and I covering the news story for his lice their police. They must 
vigilance of the citizens Is 20 years on the force, he was only desired that the policeman little-known religious broad­pray for them to the God to necessary to maintain our con­planning on leaving because of be reprimanded. So instead of cast. Since the minister hap­whom the police make their stitutional freedoms and second all the negative, racial and suing, we went to the depart­pened to be a friend of mine, I oath to serve and protect the that people who are given macho attitudes he had to deal ment of internal affairs of the went with him the the police people. positions of authority must be with each day at work. He was police and registered our com­station after he was bailed out Pete Helland 
carefully watched so that they deeply frustrated that neither plaint. Despite what we felt of jail to make a complaint. Off-campus execute their duties justly. he nor anyone else was able to was a serious violation of my After patiently hearing our Sept. 18, 1991 
The pollee are employed to do anything about it. constitutional rights, nothing at story, 
the two night officers said serve and protect the Certain pollee could do all was done to this officer who people-many of whom support whatever they wanted and nei­is still a security guard at this the police with their tax dollars. ther the law nor the people high school and is still in­The police take an oath before were able to hold them ac­fluencing hundreds of students God and the people to perform countable for their actions. in his ways. their duties In a professional That was about 15 years ago The next incident occurred and even ethical manner. They and· the situation does not ap­last December, on the day the make this oath In a country that pear to be much better. Two "Lambs of Christ" were under­has a long-standing tradition of incidents that happened to me standably arrested for viewing the police from the personally spell this out. blockading the local abortion biblical perspective, i.e. "God's The first happened about clinic. I happened to be work­servant for your good ... he is the seven years ago in front of a ing at the crisis pregnancy cen­

Accent 
page 12 Monday, September 30, 1991 
'EGGS' -traordinary 
Omelette expert displays speed and skill at dining halls 
By CHRISSY HALL Acx:ent Writer 
Howard Helmer visited the North and South Dining Halls this weekend to tell the "Incredible Edible Egg Story" to hundreds of Notre Dame students. Helmer is a representative of the American Egg Board who specializes in the art of omelette-making. 
Not only are his omelettes delicious, but he makes them in just seconds. In 1990, Helmer was rec­ognized in the Guinness Book of World's Records for making 427 omelettes in only thirty minutes. 
Before an audience of on­lookers, Helmer constructed a colossal, mouth-watering dessert omelette filled with about a half-pound of fruit and topped with flaming apricot brandy. Can we can request that on omelettes to order at the dining hall? 
Included in Helmer's presentation was an omelette workshop, where students actually learned how to make their own omelettes. Helmer instructed about 200 students each day on how to construct the perfect omelette. 
The formula calls for a pat of margarine on a hot skillet followed by a ladle full of beaten egg. When the egg begins to bubble, throw on a filling or whatever is appetizing. 
Next, fold the omelette 
J L l ,. £. tH:t$
then toss it onto a plate. let. Yet, once I became Voila-you've got yourself a capable of' avoidtng direct tasty omelette in about contact with the fire, I was thirty seconds. on my way. 
Sounds pretty simple, My next problem came huh? After watching when I tried to flip my Helmer whip up a few, I omelette. This was probably thought it would be a piece because I was supposed to of cake. Actually, however, fold it instead of flip it. it was not quite as easy as the egg chef made it seem. Nonetheless; I finally fin­
ished my masterpiece. And, 
For one, I almost burned I must admit, it was pretty my hand of because of the good for being charred! flame used to heat the skil-
The Observer I Rachel Belanger 
(l~ft) ~tudents practice making their own omelettes at South Dining Hall Sunday, us1ng t1ps from Howard Helmer (above) of the American Egg Board. 




Sign of the times 
SMC joins Alliance of Women's Colleges 
By JENNIFER SOUKUP colleges in an effort to increase enrollment, Accent Writer better educate society about the virtues (women's colleges) possess, and ultimately 
When Maureen Lowry went to the "College advance the public image of single-gender Women Student Leaders Convention" in the education so that it is concurrent with the summer of 1990, she got more than she actual level of excellence." bargained for. Goals will be realized right away. First and 
Lowry, Saint Mary's Student Body President, foremost, the many advantages of attending a was to participate in an exercise in which the women's college will be highly promoted among women were to identify themselves with a sign high school students by a panel of women that most closely fit their role in Student representing different institutions. "Many 
Government. • students automatically overlook women's 
Not finding anything involving women's colleges. We want to give them something to colleges, Lowry and a student from the College think about," Lowry said. of St. Catherine's, St. Paul, Minn., decided to Another aspect of the alliance will be to share make their own sign. concern and creative solutions to those 
Mter they had hung it, several students from problems unique to women's colleges. other women's colleges joined them. Addresses The Saint Mary's chapter is expected to were exchanged and talk of alliance began. officially begin in November. "Reaction at SMC 
They contacted the Women's College Coalition has been unbelievable," Lowry said. "SAWC iin Washington, D.C., an organization comprised has been given a spot on the Board of of the administrative presidents of women's Governors and 10any students outside the board colleges. The Coalition put them in touch with are interested in helping to see a SMC chapter Regis College, Weston, Mass. Regis had become a reality." founded the Student Alliance of Women's Departments such as admissions and Colleges (SAWC) in May 1990. development also pledged their support. 
According to their charter, the alliance is According to Lowry, "We are ready at the drop designed to "unify the students of women's of a hat to get going." As soon as the official colleges through common goals and mutual handbook and chapter application arrive, the support, inform young women about the unique alliance will become a functioning entity at educational experience offered by women's Saint Mary's. 
--~-­

I 
Monday, September 13, 1991 The Observer page 13 
I 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
at 7 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. All are your name, and the date the brief Is to be run.
•Women's Ice hockey: Anyone with or without 
welcome and no experience Is necessary. Lessons have 
hockey experience who can skate and Is interested in begun and the race is ofT to a great start. 
playing should contact MoUy at 283-2685. •Public skating is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students Is $1. Schedules are 
•The Observer accepts sportsbrlefs in writing available there. Free skate for students, faculty and •There will be a meeting of the Sailing Club tonight, every day until 5:00 p.m. Please submit your brief, staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 
The Obaerver accepts classllleds wary business day lrom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame olllce, 314 LaFonune and lrom 12 p.m. to 3p.m. a1 the Saint Mary•a office, 309 Haggar College Canter. Deadline lor next-day dassKiede II 3p.m. All dassKiada
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Ia 2 cents par character par day, Including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII 
25% off list price 
1 0·5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books corner of NO 
ave& Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
Desktop publishing. Able to meet all typil'llf!Ypese!tlng needs. 20 years experience; reasonable rates. Call Diana 272-5259. 
HOUSE SITIER AVAILABLE. EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. REASONABLE DAILY RATE. CALL ~LISSA 2n-5708. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
Found: EYEGLASSES on north 
qulld between BP and 
Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &daim 
FOUND: Denim jacket in parking 
lot behind ACC on Saturday. Call 
x4076. 
LOST: NO CLASS RING AT 
SENIOR BAR OR LINEBACKER. 
BLACK ONYX WITH M.F. 
CARROLL INSCRIBED IN IT. 
REWARD. CALL MIKE 271·8159. 
·····Losr····· 
EYEGLASSES on north quad. gold and brown rims in a tan leather case. II found PLEASE call Lisa at X4837. 
LOST 
Saphira Braclet 
Reward if found 
Call Heather 2n-5280 
LOSTIIIIIIIIIIII 
I lost my I.d., detex. etc. at STAR WARS friday night 
(10:30 show) Pleeeze call lisa right away 
VERY IMPORTANTI X4862 
LOST· MY LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading "0 TROIT" lost Thurs. 19 Sept. somewhere between Stanley Kaplan Center (next to Turtle Creek) and the D-2 lot. PLEASE call II you have it or any information · it's going to cost a bundle to replace. Reward offered lor retum • no questions asked. Call 4911. 
LOST: An Indiana driver's iiscence and St. Mary's 1.0. Call Sara during the day@ 
(708) 866-8700 and in the evening @ (312) 281-5166. 
LOST OR STOLEN 
LICENSE PLATE UUnoia plate reading "0 TROIT" missing since 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; carne oil aomewhere between Kaplan Educational Center (next to Turtle Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize irs cute, but it will cost a bundle to replace so PLEASE retum if you hawt it and no questions will be alkedll II you have the plate or info, call 4911. Generous reward ollered. 
FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN COUNTRY HARVESTER ON 9124. CALL231H!714 AFTER 
12:30 PM & IDENTIFY. 
LOST-J.Crew Barn Jacket Olive Green. Lost Thursday September, 19. Call Mike 
)(20g5 
WANTED 
MAKE I15G-$300 in 3·1 0 hrl. by HIMng 50 Iunny college T-ahirts. No finandll obligation. Smaller or larger quantltin available. Call tour.... t-aoo-n&-2053. 
WANTED t.male roomate 2bdrm, 
apt Run.way Bay 
call 25~3648. 
0-C Senior needs 4 USC GAs 
desperately 288·0933 
WANTED: 011-cempus roommate. 
Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. 
HELP!! DESPERATELY need 
4 GA's lor USC lor family!! 
Alice x4907 
BABYSITIER NEEDED TUESDAYSfTHURSDAYS, 8-5 FOR ONE-YEAR OLD. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL SUSAN 259-6006. 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA Now hiring drivers 1 0-40 hrs. per wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible schedules & perks. Call today 271· 
ttn. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2 BR house with Grad M. Avail NOW. 288-3878 Lv msg. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291·7153 
House lor Rent 
$200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 
8am-4pm. 
1310 South Bend Ave. 
Furnished opts. near N.D. 
coxy 1 bedrm $255 
dean 2 bedrm $340, 
dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320. 
FOR SALE 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill 
T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­
Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone 
Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
OVER40%0FF 
Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP I 
-Over Thanksgiving to see the NO 
football game in Honolulu. Call 
x34571or info. 
MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES, 
PLAYS NO VICTORY MARCH. 
$10. ORDER YOURS NOW. 
BETTY 239-7458 OR 289-1321 
For Sale: 
lix to DC 
lor October Break 
10118 ·10/25 $200 or negotiable Call 284-4452 
1988 TOYOTA CARROLA SR-5 
SILVER, NEW SNOWS, NO 
MAINTENANCE, GREAT CARl 
GREAT BUY AT $52001 
258-7013 
88 Plym. Horizon <45,000 mi 
VERY WELL MAINTND. Finnegan 
x1412 
TICKETS 
NEED 2GA OR tSTOitGA FOR 
USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR 
NAVY GAME. CALL MARK 
COLLECT AT 1-407-888-5161. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WANTED: 3 PITI GA's lor family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKSI HELP MEl Dan x2349 
Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade 
lor 4 Pitt GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. 
NEED: NO ALUM NEEDS TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME GAMES. CALL JOE AT #271·1430. 
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITI TIX Alum needs 2 GA's lor Pitt. Will pay $$1. Call at work 
(312) 70HI20·4or at home 
(708) 618-7818 anytime. PITT TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX 
2G.A.,a Stanford For Sale 
Call John @4050 
WANTED: 2 NDfTN tickets. CAll 
502·354·8826 from 5 pm to 9pm 
collect. 

I have 2 NAVY GAs 
will trade lor 2 PITI GAs 
call Nicole at x3719 
I need tickets lor the Tennessee 
game. Call277-6693. 
NEED 1 OR 2 PITI GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272·1967. 
Have 2 Stanford tickets Need 2 USC or 2 NAVY Will trade or sell tickets Call Kelley at 283-4836 or 239-5303 
NEEDED: 4 PITI GAs 
Call Heather at3427. 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 
TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 
601-249-3417 NIGHTS. 
Helpl3 GAs needed lor PITI 
Call X1678 

$$$$$NEED 3 USC OR TENN TIX CALL MICHELE 272-6327 
Have 2 Stanford tickets 
Call Kelley x4836 or 239-5303 
FULFILL MY NEEDSIll 2 PITI & 4 TENNGA CALL TIM #1706 
I HAVE NAVY STUD TO TRADE 
OR SELL. NEED PITI GA OR 
STUD. MARY 2648. 
Need 2 or 4 PITI GAs. Will pay 
$$$Call Pat, 234-3973 alter 6PM 
N.D. ALUM DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 GA TIX TO USC. WILLING TO PAY UP TO $250 PER TICKET. CONTACT SUE HOYT 1-800-672-6963 
NEED TENN. AND NAVY TIX. 
HAVE PITI AND USC STUD. TO 
TRADE OR SELL JOE X 2064 
I NEED 5 TENN. GA'S SO BADI 
MUCH $$$$CAN BE HADI 
CALL DEREK, O.C.#234-6976 
T 2 Tenn. GA's needed. 
E Leave message lor Matt. 
N 

N 1-800-443-0188. 
E 

S PRICE IS NO ISSUE & 
S quick reply guaranteed. 
E 

E Thanks! 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME 
GAME I CALL MIKE 1655 
I NEED GAS TO HOME GAMES 
CALL 312 733-5070 
I need 2 GA's lor USC and PITI. 
Greg x1795. 

NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR 
POOR RELATIVES. 
CALL KEVIN X1589 
NEEDEDI Pitt GAs Navy stud. II 
you can help call Scott 2373. 
I NEED TENN TIX BADLY I 
CALL MIKE AT 1103. 
FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES 273-1802 
NEEDED: 3 G A's to USC game 
please call Mike at x1578 
Need Tenn GAs 
Have$$$$ 
Karen x4808 

HELP! TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED 
Please caH Sam Santo at (201)217-()030 (home) or (201) 992-8700 (work). 
I NEED 2NAVY G.A.s LYNN'X-3890 

I'M OUT OF LLICK....UNLESS YOU SELL ~ 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. CALL ~14 ·ASK FOR KATHY'S LOG NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's lor Alum. 
Please call Susan: 284·4435 
VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) 
BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. 
GA'S FOR HIS DOMER 
RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS 
ZIPLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR 
3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER 
tAM 
I NEED 5 TICKETS TO ND/PITI 
BIG $$$CALL MATI AT 2n­
4673 
'68 ALUM DESPERATELY 
WANTS 2 GA'S TO 
TENNORUSC 
CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 
DESPERATELY SEEKING PITT AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM LIZ-3783 OR 2184 
NEED 2 GA's FOR PITI, USC, 
AND TENN. CALL GREG x2092 
I NEED USC tickets so bad I feel it 
deep inside me. 
Call me. 
Trish 
289-7934 
Need 3-4 PITI. TICKETS. Will 
pay the big bucks! Jell 234-2396. 
HAVE 2 PITI 2 NAVY TIX; 
NEED 2 USC TIX; 
WILL SWAP 201-487-9000 

WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2n3097 
NEED 2 GAs FOR PITI 
CALL 284-5005 
People who haven't seen condoms play football before need 4 USC GA's. Call John at 283-1689 
I need 2 USC tix 
Tom 113109 
I need 4 GA's lor the USC game. Please call Car1a at x5404 
NEED 3 USC GA TIX; CALL DAVE 283-1545. 
2 Purdue GA's lor sale; Dave 283­
1545 
I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND TENN. 
CALL TOM X1762 
I NEED PITI GA'S X3467 
FOR SALE: PITI GA's 
CALL x1781 
MAKE OFFER 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY 
GA TIXS.272-6306 
I NEED 2·3 PITI GA'S Julie x2912 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S 
TO ANY HOME GAME$ 
CALL COLLECT 
8t2-4n-2627 
NEED 4 PITI GA'S 
X272-6343 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S CALL JOANNE X4899 
Needed: 2 USC GA's. 
Call Sheila 283-4842. 
Need2TNGAs 
Zeke 1788 
PERSONALS 
II anyone picked up a purple jacket at the Commons Wednesday night, please retum to Michelle. x4988 
I am the lizard King and I can do anything. 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Torn x1583 FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + CASH I CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMASI SEll TRIPS ON CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP 

+ BONUS CASHI FOUR SEASONS 1·800-331-3136. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 

JOY on men: "II you don't come with an invitation, don't come at all" 
JEN on men: "Why live together when you can spend the night?" 

MONY on men: "The last time ·I saw you, you were in your underwear" 
FAST EASY INCOMEI EARN 1OO'S WEEKLY STUFFING ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: FAST INCOME P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO,IL 60664-1517 
SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? Trying to beef up a meatless resume? We can help with all sorts of editorial services. 
IDEAS INTO INK 288-3508 
URGENT I Rich Alumnus needs 2 PITI TIX Kathleen@ x3726 X4132. 
GUITARIST NEEDED lor campus funk band. James Brown, Fishbone, Prince, Etc. Call X1678 
I AM THE LIZARD QUEEN AND I CAN DO THE LIZARD KING. 

ATIENTION MICH. ST. VIEWERS! I need a copy of the Mich St. vs. NO '91 game on video lor a spirited NO fan who missed it. Contact Gabrielle at x2855 
Only 2 more days until the Post Graduate Fair!! Ail interested in service come find out what's available to you. Wed. Oct 2, 7·10 pm at the esc. 
1O-Shot's all 'round 9-I'm off like Ruby's prom dress 8-Those who play must pay 1· I'll treat him like the pig he is 6-Landing like a Boeing 747 5· Snot hangin' drunk 4· Wake up naked lacin' the wall 3-He can take my fat ass out to 

dinner 2· The Four Big Ones 1· REGROUPIIII 
It's all you Ward· Happy 21st Gwen 
Pizza Whelp-

Thanks lor making me laugh. (I s~ii can't believe that you did that!) Your not-so-secret admirer 
dear ME (aka wonder tongue) DO YOU WANT TO PRACTICE? 
u 

hey nil 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Olfice near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYOIVEI Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern ~me. Train and jump the same day. Modem equipment and training programs. Licensed instruCIDrs. FFI caU Skydive Hastings {616) 948-2865. 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 
AUDITIONSII lor Wash. Hall Mainstage production of THE CHRISTMAS CAROL 
on~29and 
9-30 at 7pm in the Library Audiaorium 
Oueslions?? call Sherry@ 289-7829 
lrilh Mlslc & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tueaday In October SEAMAISIN 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11 amto3am 
The only altemative 
Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone: 234·4015 
Do you cere about animal rights? Leam more at Animal Rights Seminar in South Bend Oct. 191 Sponsored by PETA. Call232-7971 lor info. on registration. 
OVER40%0FF Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAPI -Over Thanksgiving to see the NO football game in Honolulu. Cali x34571or info. 
•• MOVIES on a NY BUS? •• 1st timeI Bus wNCR to Ll-lv 10/19 rtn 10125-sign up & $ Oct 3 Lafortune 8-1 Opm. ?s Janice x2639, Jonix3793 
We need enthusiastic, articulate individuals to communicate with our computer product customers wor1d· wide. Full and part-time posi~ons available from 10am-7pm. Familiarity with personal computers helpful but not required. Our terrific staff, pleasant working conditions and new office building on the river aeate a positive non-smoking environment. Send resume to: Department CD Miaoshpere, Inc. 56790 Magnetic Dr. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
••cAMP LEWis•• start packing your duffel bag 
Wow, personals to Bay City, Michigan ...... Hi MomI Change the oil in my carII SendMONEYI 
LilA 
To the Swas-man Thanks lor my little surprise Saturday night. I love you and hope we can rendevous agains soon. I'm so glad you're off strike-so is Betty ill 
To the loser who has nothing better to do than read poetry by Jim Morrisson: Get a life. He was a mediocre singer lor a good band-Not some saaificial Christ figure/poet. The only thing good about Oliver Stone's movie was to show what a jerk Morriason was. I, am the Lizard King, AND I can do anything. HA HA HAl 
To the Disco Studs-Totally hip party, you swingers. Good Will sends its regards. Long live polyester! 
The Lizard Queen did the Lizard King, and guess what· I'm the lizard Baby. 
Kim(DUDE), Happy Birthday to that wild and crazy, out of control party animal. Love, The Other DUDE 
Hey IZZV, 
Does this past weekend's event mean that you will be avoiding AZARS lor a while? Inquiring minds are curious about that tolerance. Everything is lair gameIll From, the POSSE 
TO THE N.D. BAND Thanks for an awesome road trip. It was the baiacht. 
Jer-Schtein 
James, 
Be good in the new machine! Don't gel too rowdy just because you have power steering nowI 
love, Liza 
P.S. "I bet you don't see many loans lor this much moneyr 

---------------------------~--­
page 14 The Observer Monday, September 30, 1991 

The Observer/Jake Peters In 1988 form, Tony Brooks puts in another outstanding performace. The senior tailback rushed for a career-high 141 yards against Purdue. 


.~-" 


I I server. 
Name Send me a year long subscription to The Observer for $40. 
D 

D 
Address Send a semester long subscription to The 
City, State, Zip Code Observer for $25. 
Send subscription requests and payments to: The Observer, P.O. Box Q
The Observer is published Monday through Friday during the regular school year. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 


-------~­
Monday, September 30, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Brown, McDonald play captain; T. Brooks endures scratches 
By DAVE McMAHON and ROLANDO DeAGUIAR 
WEST LAFAYETTE-With Irish captain Rod Culver not making the trip because of an ankle Injury, seniors Derek Brown and Devon McDonald acted as co-captains for the opening coin toss. But their stand-In roles were not well played. After Purdue won the toss and deferred their choice until the second half, the Irish captains chose to kick-off, an unwise decision In coach Lou Holtz's mind. To begin the sec­ond half, Purdue chose to re­ceive. 
"We made a mistake at the coin toss. We ended up kicking off both times to start the half," said Holtz. "That happens. It better not happen again, but it happened." 
*** 

Irish kicker Craig Hentrlch, who nailed a 33-yard field goal in the fourth quarter, minimized the threat of the Purdue kickoff return game. The Boilers only returned three kickoffs, as Hentrlch pounded six for touchbacks, with those being at least seven yards deep in the endzone. When Purdue did have the opportunity, however, they racked up 70 yards on three returns, a 23.3-yard average, once again exposing the suspectkick-coverage unit. 
*** 

Though Rick Mirer practiced little during the week, Paul Failla was not notified of his starting assignment until just before game time Saturday. 
"We didn't know who was starting until ten minutes be­fore kickoff," said Mirer. 
Mirer did not practice Tuesday or Wednesday after injuring cartilage in his rib cage, and speculation during the week centered on whether Failla or Kevin McDougal would be named the backup should Mirer be knocked out of action Saturday. 
Despite Failla's call to start, however, Holtz would not name him the number two man. 
"Failla did a nice job taking the ball club down there, and Kevin McDougal did a good job also," he said · 
Both quarterbacks ran the same play on the first down of their first respective series Saturday. The results were strangely similar as both 
scrambled for 12-yard gains. 
*** 

Tony Brooks rushed for a ca­reer-high 141 yards, but he paid for his success with three two-inch long gashes on his right arm. 
"I got three scratches for 141 yards," said Brooks. "It felt like they were playing with scrap metal on their hands." 
Despite his 8.8-yard rushing average, Brooks would not praise his own effort. 
"I can't take much credit," he said. "The whole offensive line played a supernatural game. They deserve all the credit." 
Breen-Phillips leads assault as women's IH football continues play 
By Elaine J.C. DeBassige 
Sports Writer 
The defenses went on a ram­page Sunday night In women's lnterhall football. This was the weekend of interceptions, and while the quarterbacks might have struggled, defenses were surely pleased with their per­formances. 
BP 6, Lyons 0 
Tho Blitz has stayed consis­tent with their dominance on the field as they got by Lyons, 6­0. 
The only highlight of the game for Lyons came from a Christina Karger interception. 
B.P. was all over the ball, with two interceptions turned In by Carrie Goles and Christa Lopiccolo. Although It Is a young defense, they continue to assert their dominance In as the season progresses. 
Megan Duffy ran for the only score of the game. The Blitz tried to run for the conversion, but the attempt failed. However, the touchdown was all they would need as the trademark tenacious defense held Lyons scoreless. Both teams play on Wednesday night. 
Howard 6, Walsh 0 
Howard exploded in the first half to knock Walsh off, 6-0, with the sole touchdown of the game coming from Sarah Donnelly in an amazing 'Rocket' impersonation. Her exciting punt return turned out to be all that Howard would need as their defense turned in a strong performance in shutting out Walsh. 
Walsh will face a heated Off­Campus team, while Howard will try and pin a loss on an undefeat~d Breen-Phillips squad as the interhall season continues. 
If the press didn't tell us, who would? 
To get information on the free press and how it protects your rights, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
Fo r S l' n i o r N u r s i n g S t u d l' n t s 

A seminar to heljJ you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
Nouembcr 1 & 2, 1991 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• Laughter: A Gift of Your Being to Light Up Dark Places • Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse • Enhancing Your Personal and Professional Image 
BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• Financial Planning • Critical Care Nurse Internship Program • Preparing for Your Job Search • Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't • State Boards: Are You Ready? • Healthcare in a Changing Environment • New Kid on the Block 
$10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 22, 1991 
Calll-800-545-0357 outside Rochester, or (507) 286-8579 for registration information and brochure.
ct9J Nmsing Horizons is sponsored by
Mayo Center for ~ursing Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
M''.lfl' '""""''"'""' i10 '"' rr{fmtlttlll't'llt'lmu "'''''~'""' ''1'1"'"'""''-" t'llllallttr ''"''''"'I''''"'"'
A S11111kt• frt'l'ln:-oltluti,m. ' 

Off-Campus 16, Badin 0 
Off-Campus got ofT to a great 
start and their defense kept 
them going as they wiped out 
Badin, 16-0. 
In the first half, senior Kristy 
Alkidas ran for a touchdown, 
although the conversion was 
unsuccessful, as it was tipped 
by a Badin defender. 
A few drives later, the Heathens had another booster when Monica Eigelberger inter­cepted a long pass. OfT-Campus came back strong after halftime, as Amy Miller got things going with an intercep­tion. 
• The interception shook Badin up and on the Attitude's next possession, they were called for a safety. Things did not get better when Alkldas ran on a pitch for her second touchdown of the night. Off-Campus iced their victory with an intercep­tion by Kelly McCrystal. 
P.W. 25, Farley 8 
The Plaid Wave put on a blazing offensize display and cruised to an easy 25-8 win over Farley. 
The game started with a kickoff return by speedy Ronnie Alvarez. P.W. stopped Farley from scoring, nut their offense was not to be denied as quar­terback Eileen Mee ran for a 47-yard touchdown. Amy Robs missed both extra points. 
Close to the end of the first half, Robs carried the ball in on a center sneak. Jenny Tate smothered the Finest's defense when she ran for 50-yards up the sideline. Robs kicked the conversion. 
Just when it looked like Farley would be shut out, they came up with a score on a re­verse to KathAnne Baumel. Quarterback Laurie Sommerland ran in for the con­version, hut it came too late in the game. 
Selgfrled 21, P.E. 13 

In a high scoring game, Selgfried managed to get the last word in when they edged the Pyros, 21-13. 
P.E. came off to a good start when Kelly Dwyer caught a pass from quarterback Alison Kossler to put the Pyros in the scoreboard. Tracy Giovanni kicked the extra point. 
Seigfried came back to score a touchdown of their own to tie the game 7-7 at the half. The Pyros managed to score again on a Kossler run, but were not able to get the extra point. 
Seigfried was able to put P.E. to rest with two second half touchdowns. The Slammers were successful on their con­versions. 
Both teams will see action next Sunday. 
Lewis vs Knott 

Ed note: Due to the late game time, no results were available. 
Surprise! Saints move to 5-0 
Saints 27, Falcons 6 
(AP) Bobby Hebert threw two 
touchdown passes to Floyd 
Turner as New Orleans (5-0) 
completed the first perfect 
September in its 25-year his­
tory. The Saints have won seven 
straight over two seasons and 
eight of nine against the 
Falcons (2-3). 
Rickey Jackson sacked 
Atlanta's Chris Miller three 
times at the Superdome and re­
covered one of two fumbles that 
led to field goals by Morten 
Andersen. 
Cowboys 21, Giants 16 
Troy Aikman threw a 23-yard touchdown to Michael Irvin with 2:13 left and the Cowboys ended a six-game losing streak against New York. Dallas (3-2) moved over .500 for the first time since Jimmy Johnson be­came coach in 1989. 
New York linebacker Lawrence Taylor tore a liga­ment in his left thumb early in the fourth quarter and missed the game-winning, 84-yard drive. 
Rams 23, Packers 21 
Special teams veteran Paul Butcher sparked Los Angeles (2-3), which scored two touch­downs in a 7 -second span and took a 20-7 lead. 
Vistlng Green Bay (1-4) led 7­6 when Butcher, a 5-year vet­eran who's started just one game, set up the Rams' first touchdown by recovering Allen Rice's fumble at the Packers' 15. 
Lions 31, Buccaneers 3 
Barry Sanders scored three 
touchdowns for the first time in his career and Detroit (4-1) won its fourth straight. It's the best start for the Lions since they won their opening four games in 1980. 
Sanders had his third consec­utive 100-yard game, rushing for 160 yards in 27 carries. He had touchdowns of 7, 1 and 69 yards -the longest of his ca­reer. 
Raiders 12, 49ers 6 
Jeff Jaeger kicked four field 
goals for Los Angeles (3-2), 
which held ofT a late charge. 
Mike Cofer's 25-yard field goal with 3:54 left pulled the visiting 49ers (2-3) within six points after Charles Haley re­covered Steve Smith's fumble. The 49ers got the ball back at their 26 with 2:30 remaining after a punt and moved to the LA 19 before Steve Young threw consecutive incomple­tions, the second on fourth­and-? with 1:53 left. 
Seahawks 31, Colts 3 
Six-foot, 8-inch Dan McGwire became the tallest quarterback in NFL history, but only got to attempt seven passes. 
McGwire, a first-round draft pick from San Diego State, did little more than hand off as Seattle (2-3) took a 17-3 half­time lead in the Kingdome. 
Chiefs 14, Chargers 13 
C~ristian Okoye scored on a 1-yard run three plays into the game and Steve DeBerg threw an 11-yard touchdown pass to Robb Thomas for the Chiefs (3­2). 
San Diego (0-5) trailed 14-10 and had third-and-goal on the Chiefs' 5 with 10 minutes left. But Neil Smith sacked John Friesz for a 7-yard loss and Friesz lost 7 more yards on a fumble. 
Jets 41, Dolphins 23 
Chris Burkett blocked a punt by Reggie Roby -the first blocked punt in the NFL this season -and returned it 11 yards for the Jets' second touchdown in a 26-second span just before halftime. 
Cardinals 24, Patriots 10 
Tom Tupa, shaking off the stigma of being a career-long backup, passed for a career­high 312 yards and three touchdowns for Phoenix (3-2). He threw a 17-yard TD pass to Ernie Jones and a 15-yarder to Johnny Johnson -both in the second quarter and connected with Ricky Proehl on a 62-yard scoring pass play In the fourth. 
Bills 35, Bears 20 

Buffalo showed once again Sunday that it takes a little pressure to get the Bills going. 
The Bills (5-0) scored on three consecutive possessions during a 10:26 span starting late the second quarter, taking a 21-6 lead and going on to a 35-20 victory over the previously unbeaten Chicago Bears. 
Jim Kelly completed 19 of 29 passes for 305 yards and three touchdowns. Thurman Thomas -· gained 117 yards in 25 carries, getting 90 yards in the second half. 
~..------~~~---------~~----~--~~------.---------------------------------~-------------.------­
page 16 The Observer Monday, September 30, 1991 
Sans Dilucia, Irish netters still dominate Tom Fallon Invitational 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Hosting the fifth annual Tom Fallon Invitational, the Irish men's tennis team was able to dominate this weekend, winning three of four singles divisions and reaching the fmals in one doubles flight. 
David DiLucia, Notre Dame's All-American number-one sin­gles player, was hurt Thursday at the ITCA national clay-court championships, reinjuring a slightly pulled hamstring. 
"It's good for our team to play without Dave," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "This is our team next year, and it's nice to know that we can do well." 
Number one singles player Chuck Coleman advanced to the finals of the A division without losing a set. In the fmals, how­ever, he faced Steve Campbell, an All-American from Rice. In the match, Campbell showed All-American form, earning a straight-set victory over the 
Women's V-ball comes in fourth 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
There are a lot of things the Notre Dame women's volleyball team will want to remember after this weekend's Miami (Ohio) Invitational. 
For instance, the Irish defeated eventual champion Southern Illinois. They improved their hitting percentage substantially. And they entered their last match fighting for first place. However, the Irish will try to forget the final result: fourth place in the field of four. 
Notre Dame finished the tournament 1-2, even with DePaul. Southern Illinois and host Miami finished at 2-1. Based on head-to-head compe­tition, Southern Illinois was awarded first place and DePaul won third. 
"We didn't play poorly, we just have to find a way to win the matches," said coach Debbie Brown. "Our team strengths are hitting and blocking, and we did those things well. But there was a fundamental breakdown in three areas: serving, passing, and defense." 
A determined DePaul team beat the Irish in their first match 15-13, 15-10, 12-15, 15­
12. Notre Dame rebounded against Southern Illinois, win­ning 10-15, 15-5, 15-7, 15-3. At that point, every team had a loss, and the Irish would win the tournament with a victory
• over the host team. However, Miami won a close fourth game to take the match 15-7, 10-15, 15-8, 16-14. Freshman Christy Peters led Notre Dame's strong hitting attack. She was named to the all-tournament team after pounding out 44 kills. Marilyn Cragin was also very effective for the Irish, amassing 43 kills and a 43.9 attack percentage. Peters and Cragin saw more action than expected partially due to the team's poor health, which was a factor since the three matches were played in two days. "One thing which definitely affected us was that four starters have been pretty sick," said Brown. "We weren't in peak form, so I hope we can overcome this virus soon." 
Notre Dame will need to re­cover by Thursday, when they travel to California for the Stanford Invitational. 
Irishman, Coleman. Notre Dame's Mark Schmidt 
Campbell's 7-5, 6-1 victory, and Ron Rosas battled injuries however, did not lessen Bayliss' to reach the fmals, but will not esteem of Coleman's play this play their final match until later weekend. in the week. 
"Chuck Coleman got to the fi­In D singles, Notre Dame nals for the second straight dominated, as all eight of the year in the A division, which is quarterfmalists were Irish. no easy feat," said Bayliss. The finalists in D were Tad 
Coleman, whose doubles team Eckert and Todd Wilson, but with DiLucia is ranked first in their match was not played the country, matched with Sunday, as both players were Antonio Payumo for the A dou­injured. bles bracket, and lost in the "The matches that were un­second round. finished, the B division and the 
Notre Dame's other A doubles D division, both had Notre squad, however, reached the Dame players playing each finals. Will Forsyth and Andy other," said Bayliss. "We were Zurcher rolled through the first advised by the trainers that four rounds, losing only seven they shouldn't play." games, but were downed in Bayliss again expressed con­three sets by Kentucky's Andy cern for new NCAA regulations Potter and Scott Halse. which limit collegiate tennis 
Forsyth was defeated by teams to 24 weeks of practice Campbell in his road through A per year, which allows for only singles, but Zurcher cruised 8 weeks in the fall. through the C singles field "That is a concern all over the easily, defeating Rice's Matt country. Coaches are finding Berry 6-1, 6-4 in the final. that players are getting hurt 
In the B singles tournament, because of lack of preparation." 

Monday, September 30, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Lester leads women boaters to 3-0 victory over Wisconsin-Green Bay 
By Mike Scrudato 
Sports Writer 
Alison Lester tallied a goal and two assists to lead the Notre Dame women's soccer team to a 3-0 victory over the Wisconsin-Green Bay Phoenix yesterday at Alumni Field. The win preserved Notre Dame's undefeated season, as the Irish now stand at 5-0-2. 
~we knocked the ball around very well. I feel that we domi­nated the game," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "However, we should have finished more of our chances." 
Notre Dame outplayed Wisconsin-Green Bay in every facet of the game, outshootlng them 30-3 for the game and 16-0 In the second half. This was the second straight game which the defensive unit of Margaret Jarc, Andrea Kurek, Jill Matesic, and Gennifer Kwiatkowski has held an oppo­nent to under ten shots. 
"They really did not challenge our defense," Petrucelli added. ~we [the Irish defense] were able to counterattack well." 
Freshman Tiffany Thompson scored the Irish's first goal with 
7:08 left In the first half when she nailed a cross from Lester in front of the goal. Lester then assisted Jodi Hartwig's goal, which came ofT a shot from 15 yards out. 
"In practice we've working on crosses, 
ball, and getting it wide," Lester said. 
The third Notre Dame goal came with 6:02 left when Lester took a cross from Hartwig and put it in the net from seven yards out. 
The Irish played a very physi­cal game, as they were called for 14 fouls. The Phoenix only had two. 
~I think it was good that we got called for those fouls. It shows that we played aggres­sively," Petrucelli commented. ~They didn't play with a lot of emotion, which is why they didn't have too many fouls called against them." 
Another bright spot for the Irish was the play of tri-captain Marianne Glolitto. She had six shots on goal, including one which hit the crossbar. 
"It was good to see Gio [Giolitto) get involved around the goal. We asked her to try to do so, and she did," Petrucelli added. "She is capable of scoring some goals for us." 
The only problem Notre Dame had was a lack of finish­Ing plays which were set up nicely. 
~we did not play with a lot of intensity, and that might of hurt us as far as scoring goals," Lester said. 
Aside from this, the Irish played well, and showed the form that has taken them one­third of the way through the season without a loss. 
ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES. 
HAPPY 21st 
KATIE HERR! 

Love, 
Mom, Dad, and Mike 
I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
Students can now obtaJn about $50,000.00 within one years Ume towards college costs. and any other expenses. 
This money is avaJlable from bank, and department store 
credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student 
loans you mJght have. or are applying for. 
Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance your college education. 
100% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED, OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH! 
,:. .~~~,~·~~~.., Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISIUNG CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., 1102 Wilmington, DE 19803-3700 

Name -------------------------------------­
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________State _______ZJp ________ 
Allow 3-4 weeks delivery. 
•Amount of funds may vary slightly for each individual 
Men's cross country comes up just a bit short 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
Providence College won the men's division of the annual National Catholic Invitational after missing the event last year. Notre Dame finished a close second at the meet on Friday afternoon. 
James Westphal, a senior from Loyola University, cap­tured individual homors with a time of 23:57.9. Mike Carroll, a freshmen form Providence, suprised everyone with his second place finish. 
For the Irish, sophomore Mike McWilliams was the highest finisher at third with a time of 24:04.6. The time was McWilliams' career best at Notre Dame. 
Junior John Coyle finished seventh behind three runners from Providence and junior Nick Radkewich was not far behind in ninth place. Senior Pat Kearns and freshmen Nate Ruder rounded off the Irish representatives in the top-fif­teen finishing eleventh and twelveth consectively. 
Senior Kevin Keegan 
Seminoles are unanimous #1 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Florida State's convincing 51­31 victory over Michigan made the Seminoles the unanimous choice as the number one team in the country in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
Florida State garnered all 30 first-place votes to beat out second-ranked Miami, 34-10 winners at Tulsa. The Wolverines, last week's number two, fell into a seventh-place tie with Notre Dame. 
Washington moved up one spot to third with its 56-3 thrashing of Kansas State, while Tennessee vaulted from sixth to fourth with its 30-21 victory over 15th-ranked Auburn. Oklahoma nosed out Clemson for the ftfth spot. 
Iowa and Penn State flip­flopped positions to round out the top 10. The Hawkeyes trounced Northern Illinois 58-7, while the Nittany Lions struggled to defeat Boston College at home 28-21. 
Two new teams debut in this week's rankings. North Carolina State jumps in at 20th, while UCLA sneaks into the poll at 25th. 
finished 19th and freshmen John Cowan ended the race in 37th place. 
It was a bittersweet loss for Notre Dame coach Joe Plane and the Irish. 
"We did not run poorly," said Plane. "We have nothing to be ashamed of. Our times were excellent." 
The times turned in by the Irish runners were very strong. Several runners turned in personal best times for the course on Burke Memorial. 
" I was very happy with my race," said Radkewich who ran a personal best. "When everyone runs their best times, a loss is difficult to take." 
Providence jumped out to an early lead in the race and con­trolled the tempo for the rest of the race. 
"I have never seen them run, consistently in front, like that before," said Plane. 
The Friars dictated the pace and caused the Notre Dame pack to splinter early in the race. Coyle and McWilliams were running in the front seven until Coyle stumbled about two and a half miles into the race and fell back about thirty yards. Radkewich dropped behind the group after two miles. 
The meet was the first multi­school meet for the freshmen on the team. Ruder came out strong and relaxed in the first part of the race, but experi­enced some fatigue in the last two miles. 
~The last two miles really dragged for me," said Ruder. ~, wanted to run as well as I know I have, but I just couldn't. Nonetheless, I feel very good about my race overall." 
Cowan, on the other hand, was a little disheartened with his performance. 
~The focus of the Notre Dame cross country team is the team and I feel that I didn't stick with the team on Friday," said Cowan. "I stepped in a hole about a mile into the race and it shouldn't have been a problem, but I let it affect me mentally." 
In the junior varsity race, Notre Dame swept the top seven spots. Sophomore Hugh Mundy took top honors with a 

~ GYROS /.) 
Grand Opening Specials are: ~ Gyro Sandwich ....................................•......•.• $2.75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger ............................. $0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dfnner ..•..•......•......•. $3.49 Rib Tip Dinner .............................................. $4.75 21 Shrimp Dinner ......................................... $3. 79 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread) 
Show Student ID and get a free 16 ox drink with your urcha~~e. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

•
Mets axe Buddy 
NEW YORK (AP) --The New York Mets' front office has been thinking about a new manager for weeks. Now they can start looking for one. 
At an anticlimactic news con­ference on Sunday, the Mets made it official and announced the firing of Bud Harrelson. The Mets were 74-80 under Harrelson, and are heading for their worst finish since 1983. 
Harrelson's brief tenure as the club's 12th manager was strained and uninspiring. 
''I'm not really surprised at 
what happened," pitcher Frank
,. .. Viola said. "The situation was 
: : : : : : : : : : N':ewJ.ocatiords now open: : : : : : : : : : : 
~' p~x~~ W~Y. ~~rpt, ~9s~~"*4 Ne:ic.t·.t~ ~b.li.d_ay· lri.·.n·_27_l.-o.608.. · · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru · · · · · · · · · 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Houn:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
:.Mqn~'.fh:utS:1;t:9Q-·u;op: J:rt-S~t:J.l~l::Z:PQ : SU:n:t;t:OQ-~O;op: 
as bad 10 to 12 weeks ago, and that's when it should have hap­
pened. Buddy's an organization man and a great guy. You hate to see him lose his job. However, you have to ask If he 
was managerial material." 

page 18 The Observer Monday, September 30, 1991 
Cinderella Flanner takes a lbite outta Crime, 20-3; Carroll romps 
timeout, Pike again fumbled the moments." said Holtz. "We're was capable of making some Senior fullback Ryan Mihalko snap, with Young snagging his not as consistent as we have to great plays." pushed the ball over from one­
Irish 
second recovery. be. We gave up some big plays. The Irish continued their of­yarrl out for the touchdown, his continued from page 20 Six seconds later, Mirer fired They had some receivers wide fensive success with the SPcond first of the season. 



By George Dohrmann Sports Writer 
Flanner (2-0) pulled off the first big upset of the young season, shocking Off-Campus Crime (1-1) 20-3 and pulling ahead in the Parseghian divi­sion standings. 
As the game started it ap­peared OfT-Campus would have no trouble with Flanner. The Crime marched across the field on their opening drive but were unable to crack the tough Flanner defense after getting within the 20-yard line. They settled for a field goal and an early 3-0 lead. 
Flanner answered Off­Campus' score by mouting a 70­yard drive which ended with a 16-yard scamper by tailback Eric Dealu for the score. The two point conversion put the Gamecocks up 8-3, and from that point, Flanner never looked back. 
After Dealu's run, QB Clarke Warren took control of the game. Warren found flanker Mike Thompson for a 50-yard touchdown pass early in the second half. He then hit a wide open Scott McCarthy for an­other score late in the fourth quarter. 
The Flanner defense shut down a usually potent Crime of­fense, never allowing them to get into a rhythm. 
"Off-Campus was the big game we were looking at since the season started," said Warren. "This win makes us pretty optimistic about the rest of the season." 
Flanner stands at 2-0, a half game ahead of second place Morrissey. 
Morrissey 10, Dillon 6 
The Manor used Dillon's men­tal mistakes and the passing of QB Jamie McMillian to win its 
season opener. 

Morrissey marched down the field on its opening drive, but had to settle for a 30-yard field goal by Jack Micheal, as the Big Red defense held the Manor on third and ten from the twelve yard line. 
On Dillon's first offensive play, tailback Chris Monahan threw a 70-yard touchdown pass to wideout Dan Schmidt. Schmidt's reception proved to be the only highlight of the game for the Big Red. 
The conclusion of the scoring came with ten seconds left in the first half, when McMillian hit Tom Seurynck for a ten yard scoring pass. Seurynck's touchdown was set up by a 50­yard reception by Scott Taylor, which put the Manor at the Dillon ten. 
"Penalties really killed us," said Big Red coach Paul Drey. Morrissey (1-0) next faces 
Flanner, in a battle between the two lone unbeaten Parseghian division teams. 
Alumni 6, Keenan 0 

Willie Alvarado made three receptions on the Dawgs final drive of the game, including the games lone touchdown as Alumni (2-0) won the defensive stmggle. 
Alumni began their scoring drive with only minutes left in the game. The drive was high­lighted by Alvarado's first down reception on fourth and ten, and his 40-yard catch, which put Alumni at the Keenan 20­yard line. After two consecutive running plays, QB Jim Passinualt found Alvarado alone in the endzone from ten yards out. 
The linebacker duo of Gary Faucher and Brennan Fitzpatrick were the main rea­son Keenan (0-1) was unable to muster any points. The Knights were unable to capitalize on three Alumni turnovers. 
"Both team played really great defense," said Alumni coach Mark Gillespie. "Their was lit­erally no offense at all." 
Zahm 1 0 , Cavanaugh 0 

A field goal by Scott Ecker and a 50-yard touchdown pass from Chris Hammon to PetP. Coury pushed Zahm (2-0) past Cavanuagh (0-2). 
Ecker's 35-yard boot came on the opening drive and gave Zahm a quick 3-0 lead. The score remained unchanged until Hammon hit Coury, streaking through the Cavanaugh secondary, for a 50­yard touchdown right before half. 
Curt Plaza and Tom Yuro an­chored the Zahm defense, which improved after giving up thirteen points to Stanford last week. 
"It was good for our team to beat our rivals, but we are not getting too confident," said Hammon. "We know our two toughest games are coming up." 
Carroll 21, Pangborn 0 
The Vermin (2-0) returned three interceptions for touch­downs, two by linebacker Tom Sullivan, and spoiled the season opener for Pangborn (0-1). 
Carroll's offense was run by QB John Oleksyk who was fill­ing in for Jack Hay after a bro­ken hand sidelined him for the season. Oleksyk performed well but was relieved by Andy Jlif in the second have due to a hamstring injury. The numer­ous quarterback changes pre­vented the Vermin offense from getting into sync, but Sullivan and the rest of the defense pro­vided all thP ofTPnse th!'y would need. 
Sullivan's first touchdown came on the opening series, and was followed by Oleksyk's theft and score from his defensive back position. Sullivan dupli­cated his feat late in the game, scoring his last touchdown with under five minutes to play. 
"This victory gives us a real good outlook for the rest of the season," said running back Mike Bell. "Our defense looked great, and our offense is good if we can get everyone healthy." 
Sorin 14, St. Edwards 6 
Sorin (1-1) switched from the power-! to the option in their second game, and the change resulted in the Otters first win of the season over an under­manned St.Ed's (0-2) 
In an effort to utilize the run­ning skills of talented back Sean Ryan, coach Matt Tutler moved him from tailback to quarterback. Ryan made Tutler look like a genius, scoring on a six yard run early in the first quarter, and then connecting with Will Grannon, late in the game on a 40-yard touchdown pass. 
"Last week was a big disap­pointment for us," said fullback Chris Estes. "This win gives us some confidence, going into next week's game against Pangborn." 
the Purdue 39, the duo con­nected on a 24-yard roll out to the right. On frrst and ten at the 15, Brooks coughed up the only Irish fumble of the game. 
Dawson's six first-half recep­tions set a career best and equalled his total from last season. 
"I didn't expect to see so much time, but with the type of defense they were playing, a re­ally deep zone, it just ended up that I kept getting the call," said Dawson. 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto opted for freshman quarterback Matt Pike after Hunter's earlier fumble, but Pike proceeded to fumble and recover the first snap. After a Notre Dame a cross-field pass to tight end Derek Brown in the right corner of the endzone for third Irish score, giving Notre Dame a 21-7 halftime lead. 
"He went up and made a great play," said Mirer, who threw one interception. "I just threw it up and it was a jump ball. Derek's gonna win those." 
The defensive front line then received the call to put pressure on Hunter, who ended up com­pleting 17 of 25 passes for 214 yards. Hunter threw for one touchdown and had one pass intercepted. After Hunter picked at Notre Dame's defense last year, the defensive line forced Hunter to make some quick decisions. 
"Defensively, we had our 
open who should not have been wilth the coverages that we wHre in. We were not as good as we have to be." 
Bettis put the Irish ahead 28­7 with his second touchdown of the game on Notre Dame's first possession of the second half. 
Hunter responded with a 19­ya.rd touchdown pass to Conners, who eluded Irish linebacker Demetrius DuBose at the goal line for the score. DuBose, who recorded four tackles last week against Michigan State, tallied 15 against the Boilers. 
'"We kept Hunter contained and didn't allow him to get to the edges, which was a key for us" said DuBose. "We knew he ha.d great athletic ability and Mirer-to-Brown aerial attack. On Purdue's nine yard-line, Mirer escaped a three-man pass rush and found Brown open in the right corner of the endzone to put the Irish ahead 35-14. 
Irish kicker Craig Hentrich connected on his first field goal of the season, a 33-yarder, with 
10:47 left in the contest. The junior made all six points after touchdown. 
The final Notre Dame score came after Hunter, when pres­sured by Irish defensive tackle Germaine Holden, hurried a pass into the hands of diving Irish safety Jeff Burris, his sec­ond interception of the season Burris also totaled 79 yards ott three punt returns and one kickoff return. 
WHEN THERE WILL BE NO LONELINESS, NO DESTITUTION, NO SICKNESS, NO WAR, ONLY THEN WILL THERE BE NO NEED FOR THE AMERICAN RED CROSS. 
Please support 
American Red Cross 

• 
Life of the Mind 
JoAnn \1/inderquist ""Images in My Mind.. 
October 1 4p_m_ Corroll 
CLUB TUESDAY 
FEATURING: 
JON LAUTREC 
HYPNOTIST 
This Tuesdoy~ Corron 
9p.m. 


-------------------·--------------------------------------------~------------­
Monday, September 30, 1991 The Observer 
page 19 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CALYIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 







1tU. ME 'rniS ISN'T 

"Well, here we go again ••• Did anyone here not eat his or her homework on the way to school?" 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
MONDAY
ACROSS 35 Mars: Comb. &1 "Our hope for form -come":
1 Caribbean 
..
3& A Wimbledon Watts 4:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival. Native American
island champion: 1981 &2 Wimple wearers Club. Field House Mall. 
a Hemp derivative 
39 Descendant of 7 p.m. "Let Us Gather Again for Women's Spirituality."
15 Sour liquids 
Fatima Wilson Commons Lounge. 
t& Loss of power 
40 Kind of bond DOWN 7 p.m. "The Conversation." Annenberg Auditorium. 
to understand words 41 Modernist 9:15p.m. "Big Sleep" Annenberg Auditorium. 
1 Pedro's house 17 Recent ring 42 Pleistocene 2 Small one: retiree mammal Suffixt9 Houston player 44 Kyle and Tobin 3 Command of a 20 Some wins by of football col. ...
17 Across 46 Manager 4Edible21 Pangolin's meal Piniella mushroom22 Epic translated 47 Elbows or shells 5 Christmas by Pope 49 Adonis's killer singers24 High, in Hebrew 51 Ouse feeder 6 Part of E.T.A. 
25 Spice and staff 52 Diminish 7 Prefecture of 27Symbol of Japan
56 N.B.A. scoring leader: 1960-66 8 "Herring 
nudity 
31 Dine Vender" artist 
59 Minimally 9 Morris's "The 
32 Della and 
Lizette eo Bade 
Naked-" 10 Full of shallow spots
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Twain's boyhood home 
~::-t.:::='Ei 12 "The Hun­the gate!": 29 Spanish kings 45 Inscribed slab 53 Rhine tributary MENU Kipling 30 "Wonderland" 47 Knave of clubs 54 Rank 
55 Means'

:r!:nJII. t3 Bors and Kay 48 Early Christian Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast 
.g t40wned bird pulpits justifiers?
31 Confidence BeefTurnoverw/Gravy
5& "Swann's -·::

~:+.:::+.':+=-+:::-! t8 Hebrew letter game 49 Orthodontist's Eggplant Parmesan
Proust

....,;;;;.r;:+.:;;.E+':;-1 23 Peek-a-boo concern
33 Conductor 

57 D.D.E.'s Baked Chicken Breast w!Herbs 
phrase Whallon 50 Earthen jar predecessor24 Spring feasts 34 Short for Long: 51 Clouseau's 58 "-tu," Verdi 25 Grass type 1931-35 servant aria 2aMillay's 37 Devotee
"Second-" ~::.+~:-! 27 Steve Martin 38 Tights named Answers to any three clues in this role: 1979 for their creator puzzle are available by touch-tone .:+=+::::+:::-! 28 Perfume a Biblical phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each component seamstress minute). 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
LOOI( A..T \1-lf>...T 11-\\~<:i> IN 
il-\t \)\RT ' IT M\JST BE A I=OSS\L! 
,,~ 
~c::brDY•S 
__....,.....,•. 

B\JT ITS Nell A~. IT M\.lS\ Bt. ~E ?R\M\'TI'IE 11\J~TIN~ 'NU..~N OQ. E?\:1\~<il \.li£~S\l ~R 
Cl\\l£ 1"\t.N . 
I 
I~ 
i_ ]­
-'l.._ 
-
a 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


• 
r 
Sports 

page 20 Monday, September 30, 1991 
Fighting Irish too much for Boilermakers to handle 
The Observer/Jake Peters Defensive tackle Bryant Young turned in a stellar performance with nine tackles, two sacks, and two fumble recoveries for the Irish. 
Irish defense explodes, dominating the Boilers 
Last season, an experienced Notre------­Dame defense allowed Purdue quarterback Eric Hunter to pass for 354 yards in Notre Dame Stadium. 
But Saturday, by earning four sacks and one interception and causing five fumbles by quarterbacks Hunter and Matt Pike, the Irish kept the Purdue passing game under wraps and under pressure throughout the game. 
"We knew they were going to throw the ball, so we let the line go after the quarterback," said linebacker Pete ------­Bereich. 
The four sacks were the most by the Irish in a single game since USC's Todd Marinovich was dropped six times in 1990. "It was an outstanding effort from the front four," said Demetrius DuBose. "We went out and played tough." "We're getting closer to being the kind of defense that we need to be." 
The Irish defense had only one season sack entering Ross­Ade Stadium Saturday afternoon. However, pass pressure had been a focus of their preparation for Purdue. 
"We had been slacking (on the pass rush)," said outside linebacker Devon McDonald. "We had to pressure the quar­terback (Saturday)." 
The Irish showed this determination on the field. Hunter was twice blindsided by Irish linemen, each time causing fumbles. Sophomore Bryant Young knocked the ball loose, and recovered it on the Purdue 17, setting up Notre Dame's second touchdown. 
Eric Jones' first sack of 1991 caused Hunter's second fumble of the game. "I beat my man, and saw Hunter, and hoped I could get there before he threw it," said Jones. Jones' vicious blindside hit knocked the ball loose, and the alert Junior Bryant pounced on it. The fmal Irish fumble recovery came a miscue by backup quarterback Pike with six seconds remaining in the first half. 
The second of two consecutive botched snaps between center Bob Dressel and Pike was recovered by Young. The Irish scored on the next play to go ahead, 21-7. 
Going into the game with Purdue, no Irish opponent had fumbled the ball, let alone lost one. However, when given the opportunity, the Irish punched the turnovers in for 21 points. 
"There were three touchdowns where we gave them the ball in our territory." said Purdue Coach Jim Colletto. "Our biggest bugaboo is the turnover." 
The fourth Purdue giveaway came on a diving interception by safety Jeff Burris with just under nine minutes left in the fourth quarter. Freshman Germaine Holden's pressure on Hunter led to a hurried throw 35 yards upfield. 
The pass rush the Irish showed against the Boilermakers will have to be continued next Saturday in Palo Alto, Calif., against the Stanford Cardinal, who victimized Notre Dame for 160 sec­ond-half passing yards in their 36-31 upset win in 1990. 
"Stanford is a passing team," said McDonald. "We've got to get up." 
ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
T.. 'Brooks, D. Brown star as Irish crush Purdue 45-20 
B~· DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE-Rick Mirer couldn't throw a ball two yards on Tuesday or Wednesday of last week, but Saturday he could. And did. The junior quarterback, who hadn't missed a start in the past 15 games, came off the bench to complete 12 out of 14 passes and Notre Dame's defense stymied Purdue quarterback Eric Hunter as the Irish cruised past the Boilermakers 45-20. 
Tailback Tony Brooks, behind a stellar performance from the Irish offensive line, rushed for a career-high 141 yards on 16 carries (8.8 yard average), in­cluding a career-best 57-yard rumble in the fourth quarter. 
For the third time in four games, Notre Dame (3-1) stumbled out to an inauspicious start. After freshman quarterback Paul Failla, starting at quarterback because of Mirer's lack of practice time last week, directed the Irish to the Purdue 24 yard line, a third down procedure call on tight 

Women's cross country crosses finish line in third Freshmen lead Irish at National Catholics Meet 
By Jonathan Jensen 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Women's Cross-Country team finished third in Friday's National Catholics Meet, with five Irish runmers placing in the top 21. Providence, one of the top two teams in the country, finished first with 23 points. Nationally­ranked Boston College ended up second with 59 points, followed closely by the Irish witlil 75. Eva Flood, a freshman from Dublin, Ireland, was the top Irish fmisher. She finished ninth with a time of 18:07. 
"I go out and run as best as I can," said Flood, "The team did well. We had a good group up there." 
"We distinguished ourselves from the rest of the teams be­cause we were up there with BC and Providence," noted Senior Diana Bradley. 
Fourth-year coach Tim Connelly assessed his team's performance in the meet. "We improved a lot over our first meet. They competed real well," said Connelly. "They're learning to run together." 
"We ran well as a team, but there's a lot of room for us to improve," said Bradley, "That's evident from the race we ran on Friday." 
Flood also sees more im­provement on the horizon. "I'd say the way we're running now, I'm sure we'II do a lot better," said Flood. "We're just starting off." 
A big surprise this season has been the running of the freshmen. This weekend the Irish had five freshmen finish in their top seven. "We've got six freshmen that can run with anybody," noted Connelly, "And Eva Flood has been consistently our top runner." 
Bradley feels the meet was a good experience for the team, especially the freshmen. 
".I think we might have 

end Derek Brown was the first Irish setback. He would greatly make up for it later. 
After forcing Purdue to punt on its next possession, the Irish, with Mirer at quarterback, again faced a third down and three, only to be penalized five yards for a false start. 
"We got off to an awfully slow start and dug ourselves into a hole," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. "We had a chance the first time we had the ball and went down there and got the penalty. Failla didn't quite react to the 25 second clock and we didn't get a good rhythm." 
Purdue (1-2) did find an early rhythm, though, taking a 7-0 lead at the 11:51 mark of the second quarter. On third and 10 at their own 45-yard line, Hunter connected on an 11­yard screen pass to Arlee Conners. At the one-yard line tailback Corey Rogers twisted away from Irish linebacker Oliver Gibson in the backfield for a touchdown. The 7-0 lead was the first time since 1987 that the Boilers had led Notre Dame. 

The Irish responded with a sustained drive of their own, capped by a 29-yard touchdown on a keeper by Mirer. After heading up the middle, Mirer cut right and reached the end­zone unscathed. 
Then the defense began to make their presence felt in the Purdue backfield, as nose tackle Bryant Young picked up the first of his two fumble re­coveries with 7:16 left in the half, sacking Hunter and jarring the ball free. The fumble was the first caused by the Irish all season. Young finished with the best game of his career with nine tackles, including three for a total loss of 17 yards. 
Taking over at the Boiler 24 yard-line, Jerome Bettis fin­ished off a 24-yard drive 1:45 later with a six-yard touchdown run. 
Notre Dame continued its of­fensive success in its next series, with Mirer rolling right to hit flanker Lake Dawson for a 26-yard reception. Three plays later, on third and 18 at 
see IRISH/ page 18 
showed a lack of experience, but they'll have that one race under their belt," she said. "And there's definitely the tal­ent there to make up for the in­experience." 
Other top Irish finishers were freshman Stefanie Jensen at 14th, Bradley at 15th, and freshmen Emily Husted and Becky Alfieri at 16th and 21st, respectively. 
,. \..·.... ..·.. '....·;
, 

This Friday the Irish will be competing in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"I think we can do really well," said Bradley. "We plan to get in the top 10." 
The youthful Irish hope to steadily improve throughout the season and peak at the District Meet to give themselves a chance to realize their goal, a trip to the NCAA Championships. 










