

THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1991
VOL. XXIII NO. 109 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush: Arab-Israeli conflict must end 
WASHINGTON (AP} -Presi­dnnt Hush proclaimed a tri­umphant end to the Persian c;uJf War on Wednesday night and set his sights on a broader pfla!~e. "Thfl time has come to put an end to Arab-Israeli con­met," lw said, urging eompro­misn in the troubled Middle East. 
A hero's weleome greeted Bush on Capitol Hill, exactly one week after he announeed a conditional ceasP. fire in the 42­day conflict. 
"As commander in chief," Bush said to a chP.ering House chamber, "I can report to you: our armed forces fought with honor and valor. As president, I can report to the nation: ag­gnlssion is defeated. The war is over." 
Bush said he would seize the moment to "close the gap be­tween Israel and the Arab states, and between Israelis and Palestinians." Secretary of State James Baker Ill flies to Saudi Arabia Thursday morning for the first round of diplomacy. 

With Saddam Hussein's army driven out of Kuwait, Bush an­nounced the first large with­drawal of American troops from the gulf. He said the vanguard 24th Infantry Division {Mechanized}, bound for home in Fort Stewart, Ga., would leave Saudi Arabia by midnight. More than 537,00.0 U.S. troops were sent ofT to war. 
"This is just the beginning of a steady flow of American troops coming home," Bush .told a joint session of Congress in a nationally broadcast speech. 
"We're coming home now ­

OPERATION 

DESERT STORM 

• 
War surplus I page 7 

• 
Republican Guard I page 7 

• 
Gifts for troops I page 7 


proud. Confident. Heads high. There is much that we must do at home and abroad. And we will do it. We are Americans," Bush said, his voice cracking at times with emotion. 
"Tonight in Iraq, Saddam walks amidst ruin," Bush said. "His war machine is crushed. His ability to threaten mass de­struction is itself destroyed.... For all that Saddam has done to his own people, to the Kuwaitis and to the entire world, Saddam and those around him are accountable." 
The House chamber was awash with red, white and blue from 600 American flags as lawmakers greeted the presi­dent. In the audience were Kuwait's ambassador, Saud Al­Sabah, and the architects of the war, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Joint Chiefs Chair­man Colin Powell. 
The ambassador, his eyes fllling with tears, rose to thun-

Prepping for peace 

derous applause and clenched his hands above his head in a victory salute when Bush said, "Ambassador AI-Sabah, tonight Kuwait is free." 
The speech marked a sweet moment of personal triumph for Bush. Many congressional Democrats had second-guessed Bush throughout his seven­month showdown with Saddam, urging him not to go to war and then not to launch a ground offensive. 
In welcoming Bush, House Speaker Thomas Foley bestowed Democratic congratu­lations on the president and the troops for their "brilliant vic­tory of the Desert Storm opera­tion." Bush was interrupted 22 times by applause. 
see BUSH I page 6 


·society creates gender roles 
By PETER YOB 
News Writer 
Phyllis Dolhinow used hard statistics, slides and a personable speaking style last night in a presentation about the effect of biology and society on gender roles. 
Dolhinow, an anthropology/primatologist from the University of California -Berkeley, said that society and not biology define gender. "Culture constructs reality for all of us," she said, "the reality of gender is defined by culture." 
Her speech was titled, "Doing What Comes Naturally? The Biology and Culture of Gender." Dolhinow said she included the question mark because "Often times what we do is only part of a range of what we're able to do." 
She explained that gender roles are imposed by society from the moment we are born. "The moment you recognize what it (a baby ) is, you begin to treat it differently," she said. "We color code them," she said, "and we begin to give them subtle occupational hints." 
Dolhinow presented statistics from studies concerning differences between men and women's verbal and math skills. Several highly publicized studies claim to show that men have better innate math skills, while women are better in their verbal skills. 
She explained that a less publicized meta­
The Observer/Elizabeth Peterson analysis looked at over three million subject's standardized test results. "The only area where 
Workers cleanse the Peace Memorial in celebration of the recent freedom of Kuwa~. as well as in preparation for the upcoming spring season when the water fountains will be started up once again. see GENDER I page 4 
Balancing alcohol and intimacy 

By AMY MARK 
News Writer 
In a workshop titled, "Intimacy-Contact and Conflict: And What's Alcohol Doing In a Plaee Like This ?" Mary Cecilia Hoerner discussed the topic of conflict and intimacy in rela­tionships, as well as the role of alcohol in the intimacy arena. 
Hoerner bllgan with the topic of ronflict in relationships as "essflntial to growth and development," emphasizing that "learning to live and love with diff11rences is a challenge for everyone." Conflict is a sign of lif11 and a positive connecting force. "Intimacy is aehieved when both conflict and eontact are balanced." 
Essential factors in achieving intimacy are the mutual will and bond of two people enter­ing into a long-term commit­ment, is a clear-cut sense of identity. 

One major obstacle to inti­macy is fear, because "we are a fearful people." Many counsel­ing cases have revealed that there is a close connecton be­tween power plays and fear. Roemer said, "Fear never gives birth to love, and prevents in­timacy or creates too much eloseness, which is suffocating. Other obstacles include avoid­ance, whieh preserves conflict, and accommodation, which falsifies it." 
Studies showed differences between men and women in expectation-a major factor influencing behavior when one consumes alcohol. 
Women become more "externally oriented" than men with alcohol use, or even when alcohol was expected but not received. A majority of women reported that alcohol relieved tension and lowered inhibitions, whereas men believed alcohol increased social and sexual interaction and lowered concern about rejection in social situations. 
A leading problem with alco­hoi use, according to Roemer, is that "many people don't learn how to drink sensibly," and many "don't ·make a conscious decision on how to drink." In conclusion, Roemer said the solution seems to focus on alternative activities, self-esteem, and assertiveness, along with the development of the following responsible drinking characteristics: 


L.A. police investigate videotaped beating 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Police repeatedly clubbed and kicked a motorist lying on the ground, and a bystander caught it on videotape. Now the FBI and the district attorney are considering whether to charge the offi­cers. 
Civil rights activists Tuesday branded the beating part of a pattern of police misconduct in the nation's second-largest city. 
Police Chief Daryl Gates said if the officers' actions prove to be out of line, it could not be considered 
representative  of  his  
department.  
Police  reports  on  the  

incident asserted that Rodney Glenn King, who allegedly had driven a car involved in a chase, tried to get up off the ground and charge an officer-and tried again even after being shocked with a stun gun. 
The videotape, played on national television Tuesday, showed King did try to get to his feet at one point but gave no indication he tried to strike any of about 10 officers surrounding him. 
The neighbor who made the videotape and three other witnesses also said King did not fight the officers. 
After the beating, said one witness, Dorothy Gibson, the officers "were all laughing and chuckling like they had just had a party." 
Throughout most of the 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Homogeneous' 
label potentially 

dangerous 
I recently re-read an old Time magazine article I'd saved from last summer. The cover story was titled "twentysomething" and analyzed the 18-29 age group-the so-called 

"baby busters." Michelle Dall 
The newest batch of 

young Americans leaving Viewpoint Editor school and entering the job market, according to the authors, lacks a 
definitive group identity. Ours is primarily a "hodge-podge" generation which has simply dissected and reassembled slang, songs and styles from other ages, rather than con­structing an original youth culture of our own. The new "culture vultures" place a premium on eclecticism and diversity. 
Both then and now, the article puzzled me. While agreeing with several of the observa­tions, I wondered how the Notre Dame "youth group" fits into the picture. I thought of all the times I've tagged the ND community conservative and homogeneous, and the countless occasions on which I'd heard others express similar sentiments. 
I suddenly realized what a potentially hazardous label "homogeneous" can be and, more importantly, how dangerous it is to unquestioningly buy into the conservative stereotype. The label's been thrown around so much and so often, it's almost taken for granted, passed off as common knowledge. 
Yet, simply surrendering to the stereotype perpetuates the problem. The conservative tag can become a crutch to students unwilling to take risks and expose themselves to unconventional views. It's hard, after all, to rock the boat or reach out and take re­sponsibility for new experiences. How much easier to sit behind closed dorm doors and grumble about student "sameness." 
True, many ND students are similar on an external level. Yet, people aren't the same merely because they pray in the same chapel, wear Bean boots or love football. "Homogeneity" even extends beyond purely ethnic, financial, sexual and religious lines; it addresses our willingness to open up to new people, ideas and experiences, regardless of our respective backgrounds. 
This year, the student body's taken a big step toward diversity and activism, showing we can buck the homogeneous label on an ideological level. The controversy that erupted over major global issues such as the Gulf Crisis, as well as important campus issues like SUFR, Coming Out Day and the Year of Women, illustrates the wide range of opinions community members hold and are willing to express. 
It's natural to seek out peers with similar views who can supplement and reaffirm our own beliefs; few want to live in an entirely adversarial environment. Yet, we must seek out alternative opinions to challenge our own ideas and stimulate us intellectually. 
The danger in homogeneity is deeper than the color of our skin, the name of our God or the money in our banks. The real peril is this: maybe we're all "the same" because we don't seek out the diversity in and among ourselves and each other. It's time to try. 
News Christine Walsh Siobhan McCarthy David Kinney Accent Shonda Wilson Michael Whitman  Today's Staff: Production Cheryl Moser Jeanne Blasi  Graphics Pat Midden VIewpoint Rich Riley Business Colleen Gannon Rich Ailey  
Sports Ken Tysiac Scoreboard Mark McGrath  Systems Cesar Capella Brian Stalter Circulation  
Chris Hanely  
Lu Medeiros  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Cloudy and colder 
Thursday with 30 
percent chance of 
snow. Clear and 
colder in the 
evening with low's 

Jjj(lll!r:;r>c:t::???l:i-1 in the 20's. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H L 

i 
48 43 66 32 45 32 47 37 52 25 96 48 54 33 
Detro~ 50 23

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l!IJ!j1J!;j 
Denver
Honolulu 79 67 
Houston 84 52 Indianapolis 61 27 London 54 48 Los Angeles 62 54 Madrid 59 41 Mlarri Beach 74 56 Moscow 39 16 New Orleans 73 47 New York 52 38 Paris 57 52 

} {:}\I}// II Philadelphia 57 35 Portland, Ore. 48 34 Rome 64 41 St. Louis 59 38 San Franctaco 58 48 South Bend 50 40 Tokyo 61 46 Washington, D.C. 61 39 

WORLD 
British Premier visits Saudi Arabia 
• KUWAIT CITY -Prime Minister John Major of Britain hailed his troops as heroes today and said they would be going home as soon as possible. Major also said it was unlikely Britain would contribute to any standing army to police the Persian Gulf region. Major was the first head of an allied government to visit Kuwait since Iraqi troops were forced out of the emirate last week. Major arrived early today in Saudi Arabia, where he changed planes to fly on to Kuwait City. His itinerary included a visit to the newly reopened British Embassy and talks with Crown Prince Sheik Saad al-Abdullah al­Sabah, the prime minister. Britain's 40,000 armed forces in the Persian Gulf are the largest European contingent in the U.S.-led international force that fought Iraq. 
NATIONAL 
Fla. middle school bans hair spray 
• FORT lAUDERDALE, Fla. -The never-ending quest for "big hair" created with the help of spray has raised a cloud .of controversy as middle school students smuggle in the contraband cosmetic. About a third of Broward County's 29 middle schools prohibit hair spray on campus, but students say hard-core users are still smuggling it in.Seminole students have lots of theories about the ban. They figure some students are allergic to hair spray and couldn't breathe. On top of that, students occasionally sneak a forbidden smoke in the bathroom, which could be dangerous around a cloud of hair spray, they said. 
OF INTEREST 
~ van drivers' training seminar will be offered for all those who have not previously attended, and are planning to request use of esc vans. The course will be offered on Thursday, March 7 at 5 p.m. at the CSC. 
•The 
International Women's Day Festival will be celebrated by the South Bend branch of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom on Sat­urday, March 9, from 6:30p.m. to midnight. The festival will be held at the Colfax Cultural Center. For more information, call Caroline Domingo at 239-6580 or Se­brina Tingley, 282-2407. 

•student 
Activities Leadership Awards nomination forms are now available. They can be picked up in the 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 4, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 262.29 Million 205.53 ..;. 0.21 

S&P COMPOSITE 376.17 • 0.55 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,973.27 .. 0.75 
PRECIOUS METALS 
00..0 +$3.25 to $ 366.30oz. SILVERf" 2.7¢ to$ 3.868/oz. 

.. 
Man convicted of threatening Reagan 
•LOS ANGELES -A jury Wednesday convicted a man who claimed to be Jesus Christ in his second coming of making a threat against former President Reagan.Gregory Stuart Gordon was convicted of one count of threatening a former president. Gordon, 33, faces up to three years in prison and a $250,000 fine when he is sentenced April 29. Gordon, who has lived in New Jersey and in Hollywood, climbed over the fence of the Reagan home in suburban Bel-Air on July 4. He ran up the driveway, through the house and out a back door before Secret Service agents stopped him, according to court documents. Prosecutors said that Gordon described himself as Christ in the second coming and told arresting agents: "Ronald Reagan is the Antichrist. He must be killed and I must kill him .." 
INDIANA 
Aiencies eye federal day care funds 

Thursday, March 7, 1991 

Former ND professor dies at 80 
CLAHEMONT, Calif. (AP) ­The Father John L. McKenzie, a Homan Catholic Bible scholar who pursued scientific inquiry into the scriptures with his 900,000-word "Dictionary of the Bible," has died. McKenzie, a native of Brazil, Ind., was 80. 
McKenzie, long in ill-health, died of heart disease on Satur­day at Claremont Manor Conva­lescent Hospital, said Anita Hobinson, a college professor and former student who had taken care of him for 13 years. 
"Up until almost the end he was writing and lecturing and saying Mass," she said Wednesday. 
An author of more than two dozHn books, editor of many others and a columnist, McKenzie was best known for the dictionary published in 1965. 
"It was really a landmark volume for biblical studies for Catholics," said John Sprague, president of the Thomas More Association in Chicago, pub­lisher of several other McKen­zie books. "For years the Catholic Church -kind of rebelled against scientific inquiry into the Bible." 
The dictionary functions as a reference tool for scholars, providing such information as names of places and people, and places them in context. 
McKenzie was born Oct. 9, 1910, in Brazil, Ind., and was ordained a .Jesuit priest in 1939. He taught at Loyola Uni­versity in Chieago, Notre Dame and DePaul, among others, and joined archaeological explo­rations in 1957 and 1960. 
Other significant works by McKenzie included "The Two­Edged Sword" and "Authority in the Church." 
"lie was a respected scrip­ture scholar but he challenged the traditional pattern of au­thority in the church and I think people saw that they could do that," Sprague said in a telephone interview. 
McKenzie left the .Jesuits but remained a priest, and retired to Claremont, where he regu­larly celebrated the 8:15 a.m. Sunday Mass at Our Lady of the Assumption parish. 
Sprague said McKenzie's re­search did not cast doubt on faith. 
"I think he redefined faith for himself. He cast doubt on a lot of things that were purported to be Catholic or that belonged to the church, that there was no foundation for in scripture. 


War rubble 
AP Photo 

A police officer photographs a sign reading "Rubble of Baghdad" 
people were briefly detained in the demonstration organized by the 
that was carried by anti-war protestors who dumped two truckloads 
Atlantic Life Community, but no arrests were made. 
of dirt and debris in front of the Pentagon Tuesday morning. Nine 





Soviet Treaty gains limited support 
MOSCOW (AP) -Eight of the 15 Soviet republics tentatively approved Mikhail Gorbachev's proposed treaty to preserve the union, officials said Wednesday, but th.ere was still uncertainty about how to put the document into effect. 
The Hussian Federation, by far the wealthiest and most populous republic, was among those signaling tentative agreement. Basic disputes re­main between Soviet President Gorbachev and Russian Presi­dent Boris Yeltsin, however, on taxation, ownership of natural resources and other issues. 
Eduard Kovalev, a spokesman for the national parliament, said the draft was completed last Friday and was returned to Gorbachev to resolv.tJ disputed points, which make up about 20 percent of the document. 
"I think we have come closer to signing," President Nursul­tan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan said on the government's 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has a drink with British Prime Minister John Major prior to their lunch at
nightly national newscast. 
the foreign ministry guest house Tuesday in Moscow. John Major made a visit to Saudi Arabia Thursday. 
V. Stepanov, the leader of the northeastern region of Karelia, said on TV that the document March 17 and billed as a vote "No procedure on signing the bachev, voting him the power to was "a major political step. I on preserving the Soviet Union. union treaty has been set," he rule by decree. wouldn't call it a victory.... Six republics refuse to take said. "They are developing it as There is hard, serious work part in the referendum or in they go along." The Russian government has ahead." drafting the treaty. Even those The process reflects the tenu­not decided whether the treaty 
Gorbachev hopes to complete taking part in the talks and ous nature of Soviet democracy. would be ratified by a simple his review and publish the doc­voting do not have a clear idea The national Supreme Soviet majority or a two-thirds vote, ument before a national refer­of their legal meaning, Kovalev legislature has surrendered its said Sergei Obukhov, a parlia­endum he has scheduled for said. law-making authority to Gor-mentary spokesman. 

The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 
PEACEMAKING: PEACE AS THE FRUIT OF JUSTICE 

Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Campus Ministry Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert,Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator, Center for Social Concerns 
Tonight-March 7 
7:30p.m. 

LaF:ortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
------~--------~------~-------­

page4 



Intimacy 
continued from page 1 
males were superior was in 
high school-level problem solv­
ing," she said. 
Dolhinow believes that this is because males take more elec­tives in high school in subjects that stress problem solving skills. 
"There is probably more mis­information about hormones and behavior than anything else I can think of," she said. 
In fact, women have testos­terone and men have estrogen, she said. Some evidence indicates that testosterone is converted into estrogen in the human brain. "I'm not saying that hormones don't influence behavior," Dolhinow said, "but it isn't clear how they do." 
She showed the audience sev­eral slides that depict gender roles in society. One, a clipping from a magazine article read, "Biology may play a part in dating... men prefer women with young bodies, women pre­


Anti-gay 
NEW YORK (AP) -Reports of anti-gay violence and ha­rassment jumped dramatically last year in six major cities, a trend attributed Wednesday in part to the growing visibility of homosexuals in American soci­ety. 
"Greater visibility ... has been enormously empowering and has opened doors to under­standing and acceptance," the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Policy Institute said in its report. "However, it also has triggered hostility and made gay and lesbian people a more identifiable target for potential assailants." 
The task force collected 1990 

Beating 
continued from page 1 
two-minute tape King is on his 
back or on his stomach while 
several officers flail at his head, 
arms and legs with nightsticks. 
One officer is seen kicking King 
at least six times. 
In all, King was struck or 
kicked about 30 times. 
King, 25, was treated at a 
hospital for two days before 
being taken to jail Tuesday. He 
suffered a broken leg and 
bruised arm and the "side of 
his face was deformed," said 
his wife, Crystal. 
The FBI announced Tuesday 
that it will investigate possible 
civil rights violations, 
spokesman Fred Reagan said. 
The district attorney's Special 
Investigations Division, which 
examines allegations of police 
brutality, said it, too, is opening 
an inquiry. 
"We want to determine if 
there is a criminal case against 
the officers," spokeswoman 
Sandi Gibbons said. "We're go-
The Observer 

fer men with padded wallets." 
"I didn't know that had any­thing to do with biology," Dol­hinow quipped. 
"There is a terrible mishmash of misunderstandings about bi­ology," she stressed. "Biology defines possibilities but it does not determine behavior," she said. 
"Socio-biologists would have us believe that genes are every­thing," she said. "DNA codes for proteins, not behavior." 
"We learn all of the behavior that is appropriate for our cul­ture," Dolhinow said. "We don't need to invoke genes to explain behavior among groups; Cul­ture gives you your gender.l don't want to give the im­pression that all gender based behavior is bad or wrong, but for most of us it's not our biology that limits us, it is our society." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Department of Anthropol­ogy, the Gender Studies Pro­gram, Year of Women Commit­tee and the Office of the Provost. 
-~--~---­



violence increases 
Thursday, March 7, 1991 

Roles 
continued from page 1 
•to 
facilitate social interaction as opposed to the goal of becoming intoxicated 

•to 
consider drinking a "relaxing time-out," as opposed to an escape from reality 

•to 
know of other stress­management techniques; 

•to 
do without drinking instead of becoming obsessed with it 

•to 
not cause suffering or embarrassment to oneself or others as a result of drinking. 


This workshop was brought to ND by the Year of Women, the University Counseling Center, and the Office for Alcohol and Drug Education. 
Correction 

An article in Wednesday's Observer about the Iceberg De­bates finals, a statement re­garding a brochure published by Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) incorrectly stated the club's objectives as "support, fellowship and com­munication." 
The objectives should have read "support, fellowship, and education." 
Also reported in that article was a statement made by the Lyons Hall team which claimed that the club's brochure made "references to the formation o spousal relationships from contact within the club setting." 
The Observer article failed to mention that the point was later refuted by the St. Ed's team. 
The Observer regrets the er­rors. 




sharply 
problem has grown" as well, he said. 
Police departments in the same six cities also reported a huge jump in anti-gay crimes, although not at levels anywhere near those found by the service agencies. 
In 1990, police recorded 265 incidents, compared with 156 in 1989, according to the report. 
"More people are willing to come forward and talk to us than are willing to get involved with the criminal justice sys­tem," said Matt Foreman, head of the New York City Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project, in explaining the differing numbers. 
statistics from gay service or­ganizations in six metropolitan areas. It found an average 42 percent increase, compared with 1989, in reported inci­dents, ranging from verbal as­saults to arson, police abuse and murder. 
"These crimes are intolerable, not only because of the suffer­ing they cause to innocent vic­tims, but also because they are uniquely destructive of the so­cial fabric," said state Attorney General Robert Abrams at a Manhattan news conference. 
"Hate crimes undermine the spirit of tolerance and respect for diversity that are at the foundation of our democracy." 
ing to proceed on this very quickly." 
Police internal affairs investi­gators made copies of the tape for their investigation. 
Gates said: "Even if we de­termine that the officers were out of line, it is an aberration.. . Anyone who viewed this tape would hasten to make a quick judgment." 
Prosecutors have not decided whether to charge King, who previously was convicted of a 1989 robbery. King was booked for investigation of evading po­lice officers and investigation of parole violation. Bail was not immediately set. 
Ramona Ripston of the American Civil Liberties Union said the police chief "must be held responsible for this kind of brutal response." She said that her ACLU chapter receives about 55 calls alleging police brutality each week. 
"The time has come to take a very deep look at what the de­partment does," she said, adding that racism might have played a part in the attack. 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors (2) 
Two students are needed to perform general office duties including answering telephones and taking classifieds. Each day editor must be able to work 12 to 3 p.m. at least two days a week at the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more 
r 
l \. information, call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
Of a total 1,588 incidents: 507 were recorded in New York (a 65 percent increase over 1989); 425 in San Francisco (up 29 percent); 199 in Los Angeles (up 20 percent); 198 in Chicago (up 11 percent); 147 in the Boston area (up 75 percent); and 112 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area (up 133 percent). 
Kevin Berrill, director of the task force's Anti-Violence Pro­ject, also attributed the in­creased numbers partly to greater awareness and willing­ness of victims to come forward. 
"However, such large in­creases, especially in the num­ber of physical assaults, indi­cate that the severity of the 


This is agreatway 
to wendtfie summer 
out it doesn'tlook 
I I 

verynnpress1ve 


onyourresume. 
At Allstate, summer intems get 
the chance to do resume-quality 
work on real projects in offices all 
over ti1e count:rv. 
So ifyou·n~ interested in audit­
ing, accounting, systems, actuarial 
science, human resources, finance, 
law, marketing, graphics, under­
writing, advertising, or oti1er relat­
ed areas, send vour resume to the 
Intemship Coo~dinator, Allstate 
Insurance Compan:: Allstate Plaza, 
GIC, Northbrook, IL 60062. 
Ofcourse, vmt'll still have time 
to perfect your power serve. It's just 
tl1at vou'II also finish tl1e sunu11er 
witi1'skills that people may actually 
pay you for. 
A member ofthe W Sears Financial Network l1I!!J 
Allstate~ 
You're in good hands. 
101991 Allstate Insurance Compam: ~onhhrt~lk. Illinois 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 7, 1991 The Observer page 5 
India's prime minister of three months resigns 

NEW DELHI, India (AP) ­Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar resigned in anger Wednesday, accusing former premier Rajiv Gandhi of be­trayal and making new elec­tions a virtual certainty. 
A veteran politician but a novice in the top circles of gov­ernment. Chandra Shekhar lasted three months as head of a minority government in the world's largest democracy. 
Gandhi, 46, is the heir to the primn ministerial dynasty of Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. lie was the man who made Chandra Shekhar prime minister. And now, exuding confidence about his chances of recapturing the office he lost 15 months ago, Gandhi was the man who broke Chandra Shekhar by withholding the support needed to pass bills in Parliament. 
Six hours after the prime minister announced his resig­nation, Gandhi's Congress Party declared it wanted new elections, echoing the urgings of Chandra Shekhar himself and the leaders of the major opposition parties. 
"Congress has always taken the position that it would like to come back to power by people's mandate," party spokesman 
M.J. Akbar said. "That position remains the same. That is why we prefer elections." 
It is up to President Ra­maswamy Venkataraman to decide whether to call new elections or ask someone else to form a government. But the president, whose post is largely ceremonial, appeared to have no choice since the half-dozen largest parties in Parliament say they have no desire to try to cobble together yet another mi-
Departments nominate reps. for GSU Council 
Special to the Observer 

The Graduate Student Union Election Committee has an­nounced that the following graduate students have been nominated to represent their departments to the Graduate Student Union Council: 
•Patrick 
Sain and Greg Bazan, electrical engineering 

•Chris 
Strathman and Brian Hiley, English 

•Michael 
Abad, chemical engimwring 

•Craig 
Woolard, civil engi­neering 

•Marek 
Szopski, sociology 


•Chris 
Davis, fine art and art history 

•Adela 
Penagos, romance 



languages and literature 
•Andrea Stummer, German 
•Julianne 
Hart, Peace Insti­tute 

•Keith 
Gonthier and Huan­Chang Chu, aerospace and me­chanical engineering 

•Chris 
Meyer and Bradley Lewis, government 

•Hannah 
Kettler and Jeff Henke, economics 

•Allen 
Ritter and Rita Francis, chemistry and biochemistry 

•Xiang Wu, physics 

•GianMario 
Besana, mathe­matics 

•Mark 
Webb and Dave Lutz, philosophy 

•Bob 
Shaffern and John Quinn, history 




American Heart Association 

/~ 
AT­






MARIGOLD 1 MARKET 
ODS-~ A.BASK-E.T OF 5H.A.M~k -?CODic;;.S Ft::>~ YoUR ~vo~e:t•E 
; PRE.C.. I-tA1'0 1• 

..feOLJR t=:vE~ POPULA 1<. l~ISI:-t i:?AS~t:=: I."'A DoZ~N "5HAlv'\ROCI< COO/<.t£:;:5 ~AN lRlS+4 DINI'-lER Fol2. Two. -.t MR.S. PRINDABL€-'S A'PPLE:S Tl-+E. LLJC.l<: OF lt-JE II<.ISH Is SVK"E -ro FOLLOW l. 
~PE. N-\D Cl-EVE LAI-JD • 
~~)M(~m.c~·:lacc~~­
~-:.<:>OI'X~)!X~~~~~~~~~ 
I<~,...,..:::>Q&::~»>i:~~::xr..<~~·~·~·~·)ll3:lH 
nority or coalition government. 
In the meantime, Chandra Shekhar said he would continue to serve as prime minister "until new arrangements are made." 
Congress Party stalwarts, in­cluding several top-level Gandhi aides, predicted this week that they would sweep a majority of Parliament's seats if new elec­tions are called. 
Whether that optimism is well-founded remains to be seen. There have been no au­thoritative polls recently to ei­ther support or debunk the Congress Party's confidence. 
New elections might once again fail to determine a clear winner and doom the country to another fragile minority government like the one headed by Chandra Shekhar or that of his predecessor, V.P. Singh. Singh lasted 11 months after dislodging Gandhi in the November 1989 elections. 
Chandra Shekha'r announced his resignation on the floor of Parliament with biting remarks that far exceeded even his usu­ally stormy demeanor. 
He had just listened to two hours of tirades by opposition members who accused him of running a "puppet" government whose strings were pulled by "puppeteer" Gandhi and Gandhi's Congress Party. 
The Congress Party boycotted Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday, ostensibly because of outrage over alleged police surveillance of Gandhi's official residence. 
"I cannot run the government in keeping with their (the Congress party's) behavior," Chandra Shekhar said, his voice cracking. "Being betrayed is not bad, but to betray is bad." 
Without the support of the Congress Party and the 211 votes it commands in the 514­seat Parliament, Chandra Shekhar's 54-seat Janata Dal­Socialist party could not pass any legislation. Other major parties ranging from commu­nists to Hindu fundamentalists were lined up against him, even on such innocuous motions as a vote of thanks to the president that was to have taken place Wednesday. 
"Parliamentary politics is. arithmetic," Chandra Shekhar said. "I cannot run a govern­ment if Congress is not present in the house." 
The problems date to the 1989 elections when no party obtained a majority in Parlia­ment's policy-making lower house, the Lok Sabha or House of the People. 

Young women walk through El Paraiso, a youth camp in Guines, Cuba set up for city dwellers on a state farm outside Havana. The youths are sent in an effort to wean Cuba from its dependence on increasingly scarce food imports from the crumbling East Bloc. 
BOSTON (AP) -Diane was worried about a long and painful death from leukemia when her doctor agreed to help her commit suicide. 
She had refused chemother­apy because the chance of cure seemed slim. When the time for dying finally came, s.he wanted to go quickly. So after long talks, Diane's doctor wrote a prescription for sleeping pills and told her how many she needed to kill herself. 
Cases like this probably are not rare in medicine. But no one really knows, because physicians rarely speak of such things, even to each other. 
This case is different. 
The doctor who helped Diane end her suffering described 
patient's suicide 
how and why he did it, in an es­with her favorite shawl. She say in Thursday's New England ended her increasingly painful Journal of Medicine. Dr. Ti­life after months of coming to mothy Quill, an internist at the grips with her diagnosis of University of Rochester, said he acute myelomonocytic decided to tell his story because leukemia, weighing and reject­he wants to bring the discussion ing treatment and making the of death and suffering into the most of the time she had left. open. 
Quill, her doctor for eight 
"We can't do that without years, had told Diane she had a talking about real examples," 1-in-4 chance of surviving he said in an interview. "I hope chemotherapy and bone mar­this will cause doctors who take row transplantation and gain­care of severely ill patients to ing a long-term cure. Diane think seriously about what they said no. do and how they handle these situations." "She was convinced she would 
die during the period of 1 
His patient, identified only as treatment and would suffer un­1 Diane, was 45 when she said speakably in the process," Quill ,, goodbye to her husband and wrote. 
.,

son and then died about a year 
1

ago, quietly on a couch, covered The doctor made sure she understood her decision. Although he disagreed, he gradually adjusted to it. Then she brought up another difficult subject. 
"It was extraordinarily im­portant to Diane to maintain control of herself and her own dignity during the time remain­ing to her," Quill wrote. "When this was no longer possible. she clearly wanted to die." 
She wanted no part of the drugged nether world of termi­nal care. When she was ready to go, she wanted to take her own life as painlessly as possi­ble. At her request, he wrotP her a prescription for barbitu­rates and told her how to u-.e ~hem for sleep and for death. 
The Observer .

Thursday, March 7, 1991 page 6 

FDA says reformulating
AiRLiFT COMMAN 


capsules will help little 
they did not have a form they could swallow," he said. Kessler has appointed a task force to consider the issue. 
As of Wednesday morning, investigators had looked at 24,000 Sudafed 12 Hour cold capsules for signs of cyanide after two deaths and one seri­ous illness in the Puget Sound area of Washington state. 
The manufacturer, Burroughs Wellcome Co. of Triangle Park, N.C., issued a nationwide recall of the product last weekend. No arrests have been made. 
Since the recall was an­nounced, investigators have found three suspect capsules in Sudafed 12 Hour packages, all in stores near Interstate 5 exits in the Tacoma-Olympia area of Washington state. 
Kessler said the FDA was alerted to a possible problem with the over-the-counter de­congestant in mid-February, but an investigation then re­vealed no evidence of tamper­ing. 
"It wasn't until this last weekend when the second case was reported to us" that the agency became convinced of tampering, he said. 
In that case. the lot number on the blister pack didn't match the lot number on the box, he said. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Drug 
manufacturers should consider 
reformulating their non-pre­
scription capsule products to 
lessen the threat of tampering, 
the Food and Drug Administra­
tion's new commissioner said 
Wednesday. 
But David Kessler, testifying before a Senate committee days after a nationwide recall of the Sudafed 12 Hour cold capsules ·because of tampering, cau­tioned that no packaging is 
tamper-proof. 
"Any product can be tam­
pered with," Kessler told mem­
bers of the Senate Labor and 
Human Resources Committee. 
"Consumers must maintain 
their vigilance. They must look 
twice before taking any over­
the-counter product." 
Kessler, sworn in last week, 
said the agency would consider 
whether capsule forms of non­
prescription drugs should be 
banned. 
"Today, if I were a drug 
manufacturer, I would seriously 
look at other ways to formulate 
my products than capsule 
form," he said. 
However, Kessler said he rec­
ognized that capsules were the 
best and sometimes only viable 
dosage form for some drugs. 
Also, many elderly people pre­
fer capsules and "they perhaps 
would not take their medicine if 



Critics shun new novel about 'yuppie serial killer' 
NEW YORK (AP) -"American Psycho," Bret Easton Ellis' hyper-violent novel about a yuppie serial killer, is creeping quietly onto bookstores' back shelves without benefit of window displays, newspaper ads or talk show spots. 
Booksellers argue over how the book should be handled, and a West Hollywood, Calif., shop called Book Soup has even stuffed this disclaimer into its copies: 
"Dear Reader: Book Soup is making this book available to you because of our commitment to the doctrine of freedom of expression. This should not be construed to be an endorsement 

Bush 
continued from page 1 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said the victory in the gulf was "President Bush's finest hour... Thanks to the brilliant leadership of President Bush-who had to make the toughest calls of his life and our times-the war is over." 
Senate Majority Leader Ge­orge Mitchell, D-Maine, said the war has given Bush "enormous 

... prestige" to work for a settle­ment in the Middle East. "I am pleased the president is seizing the initiative." Mitchell said. 
Addressing the longstanding dispute between Israel and its neighbors, Bush said differ­ences were "so painful and in­tractable. Yet, in the conflict just concluded, Israel and many of the Arab states have for the first time found themselves confronting the same aggres­sor. 
"By now, it should be plain to all parties that peacemaking in the Middle East requires com­promise," the president de­clared. "We must do all that we can to close the gap between Israel and the Arab states, and between Israelis and Palestini­ans." 
of the contents." 

The book is being issued in paperback by Vintage Books following its cancellation last year by Simon & Schuster. A debate has raged in publishing circles over whether S&S was guilty of cowardly censorship or good taste. 
The book is filled with ac­counts of mayhem and torture; the victims of the investment banker protagonist include a dog, a homeless man, a 5-year­old boy and numerous women. 
The book has been almost universally condemned by crit­ics. Jonathan Yardley of The Washington Post called it "a contemptible piece of pornog-
A comprehensive peace must be grounded in U.N. Security Council resolutions calling on Israel to withdraw from occu­pied territories and declaring the right of all nations in the region to live in peace within secure borders. 
"This principle must be elab­orated to provide for Israel's security and recognition, and at the same time for legitimate Palestinian political rights," Bush said. "Anything else would fail the twin tests of fairness and security. 
"The time has come to put an 11nrl to Arab-Israeli conflict." 
raphy, the literary equivalent of a snuff flick." 
The Los Angeles chapter of the National Organization for Women has called for a boycott of Vintage books and said it would distribute information about violence against women outside stores that sell the book. 
Meanwhile, Ellis, interviewed in today's New York Times, said he has received 13 anonymous death threats, including several with photographs of him in which his eyes have been poked out or an axe drawn through his face. 
"It's a little dismaying," he said. 
Bush said. 
He said other challenges still remain after the war, and he called for: 
•Creation of security ar­rangements to produce a stable gulf. He said "our friends and allies in the Middle East" will must take the lead in regional security but that the United States "stands ready to work with them to secure the peace. He promised that U.S. forces will participate in joint exer­cises involving both air and ground troops. Cheney has dis­cussed a continuing large naval presence in the Persian Gulf and rotation of air units. 


Happy Birthday March IS, John Richardson!! 
And congratulations on being selected to be an R.A.l 
SECURITY BEAT MONDAY, MARCH 4TH 

2:13 a.m. An off-campus resident reported his gold chain and cross missing from the men's locker room of the JACC. 
2:09 p.m. The Hammes Bookstore reported a person attempting to steal sportswear from the store. Security ques­tioned the suspect and recovered the stolen merchandise. 
6:22 p.m. An ott-campus resident reported the theft of his roommate's bicycle from outside the South Dining Hall. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 5TH 

2:03 a.m. The monitor at the Hesburgh library reported a person attempting to take books from the Library. Security questioned the subject and the books were returned. 
5 a.m. A Siegfried resident reported receiving a series of harassing letters and phone calls. 
9:32 a.m. A University employee was assaulted with a BB gun by three unknown males near the Aerospace Engineering building on Juniper Road. 
11:18 a.m. A Lewis resident reported receiving two obscene phone calls. 
11:37 a.m. The Hammes Bookstore reported a person caught shoplifting a VHS tape from the store. Security questioned the subject and recovered the stolen merchandise. 
1:20 p.m. A Cavanaugh resident reported receiving a series of harassing phone calls. 
3:16p.m. A Pangborn resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
4:16 p.m. Security assisted a Breen­Phillips resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center. The victim had fainted. 
9:19 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported the theft of her portable compact disc player from a study room on the second floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6TH 7 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of several clocks from Cushing Hall. 11 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of a desk and a chair from Cushing Hall. 
"I had no idea the novel would provoke the reception it's gotten, and I still don't quite get it," the 26-year-old writer told the Times. "But then I was not trying to add members to my fan club. You do not write a novel for praise, or thinking of your audience. You write for yourself; you work out between you and your pen the things that intrigue you." 
Vintage, which printed about 60,000 copies, hardly gave the book an enthusiastic sendoff. It neither stuck promotional ma­terial into reviewers' copies nor arranged a publicity tour for Ellis. 
And the book, which is filled with the names and descrip­tions of consumer gadgets, de­signer clothes and chic restau­rants, contains a disclaimer of its own. 
A paragraph at the beginning says the book's contents are "imaginary and are not in­tended to refer to any living persons or to disparage any company's products or ser­vices." 

The novel's first week on the shelves was uneventful. 
"We're making it available, but we're downplaying it," said Matthew Goldstein, spokesman for Doubleday's 55 bookstores. "In no way, shape or form are we touting it." 
B. Dalton polled the managers of its 800 stores and found that 98 percent thought it should be sold and 90 percent thought it should not be publicized. 
"We don't want anyone out there building window dis­plays," said Jeff Colquitt of Bookland, which has 100 stores nationally. 
INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE 
DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MARCH 4-8 
10:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. 
•Portfolio Bags  •Coffee Mugs  
•Short Sleeve Polo Shirts  •Cotton Sweaters  
•Cotton & Velour Blankets  •Sweatshirts  
•Official Miami T-Shirts  •ND Rub-ons  

You won't find better prices anywhere! Great Gifts for Spring Break and Easter!! 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 

Thursday, March 7, 1991 page 7 



Republican Guards execute dissidents 

SAFWAN, Iraq (AP)-Iraqi tanks are blowing up rebel homes, and soldiers are scat­tering the bodies of executed dissidents in the streets to dis­courage further opposition to Saddam Hussein, according to interviews with refugees Wednesday. 
Saddam's Hepublican Guard, beaten on the battlefield, has crushed much of the rebel movt!ment that at one point controllnd most of Basra, Iraqi's seeond-largest city, the rnfugees said. Iraqi rebels who 'fled said they had asknd allied forces to aid thnir cause but got no response. 
"The army is completely in eontrol," said Brock Matthews, a 58-year-old Briton who was among hundreds of people who converged Wednnsday on this U.S.-held town near the Kuwait bordnr. 

Matthews said he lived in Kuwait 19 years and helped the resistance after Iraq's invasion. He was arrested by Iraqi troops around the time the war started, and was freed from an Iraqi prison Saturday by anti­Saddam rebels, he said. 
Matthews said he was in Basra earlier Wednesday and that much of the fighting had stopped, aside from small arms and some mortar fire from pockets of rebel resistance. 
In Saudi Arabia, Brig. Gen. Richard Neal said the unrest in Iraq continued, mostly south of Baghdad and in more isolated areas north of the capital, but at a lower level. He said there was "no active resistance" in Basra. 
"It's an internal problem and one I assume the government and the military will eventually resolve," he said. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted Iraqi refugees arriving in Iran as saying Basra remained in the hands of "popular forces." 

One refugee quoted by IRNA claimed the cities Amarah, Kut, Nasiriya, Zubair and Tanuma also were under control of dis­sidents. The refugee said anti­Saddam demonstrations were staged in the Kurdish-populated cities of Sulaimaniya, Kirkuk and Mosul in northern Iraq. 
Many of the refugees spent days walking the bomb-bat­tered road linking Basra and Kuwait, a route strewn with charred remnants of Saddam's army. 
The majority, hungry and sometimes ailing Iraqis, were not being allowed into Kuwait. Others were foreigners who had worked in Kuwait and were imprisoned in Basra after the Iraqi invasion, some because they failed to change their iden­tity cards to reflect Iraq's claim that Kuwait was its 19th province. 
An Iraqi refugee, Jabar Saleh, 40, said there still was fighting in Basra when he left the city earlier Wednesday, but that rebels in the center of the city were surrounded by Republican Guards. 
He said he saw tanks and ar­tillery from the Republican Guard firing during the trip from Basra from Safwan, and rebels responding with rifle fire. 
He said his 3-year-old girl was killed when Republican Guards fired a rifle at his car as his family stopped Sunday by a river to do laundry. He said a 5­year-old daughter was hurt in the attack and he left her in a Basra hospital. 
Several Iraqi refugees and 
other people fleeing the country said the Republican Guard was executing dissidents and scat­tering their bodies in th~ streets to frighten rebels. 
Two of the Iraqis refugees, living in a camp near U.S. Army positions, said they worked in the rebel movement but both left their respective cities, Basra and nearby Zubair, after the Republican Guard showed up on Monday. 
They said the rebellions were organized simultaneously in several cities and the takeovers of the towns was planned for Saturday. 
The takeovers took root in the large street debates that followed the war, they said, and the unrest was partly orches­trated by a renegade Iraqi gen­eral. 
FOOTING THE BILL 
Allied countries have promised $53.5 billion to the U.S. to help pay for the Gulf War and pullout costs. Here's the breakdown in millions of dollars•: 
$16,839 ~Promised

$16,006 


~Paid 
$10,740 
[) 
$6,572 
$3,000 
$3,5.10 





$1.{;) 

Saudi Kuwait U.A.E. Germany Japan Arabia 
•An additional $3 million was contributed by other countries. 
WASIIINGTON (API -The lightning spPed of the allied vic­tory against Iraq left the U.S. military with mountains of sur­plus materiPI and more on order. 
Military logistics ollicials, who planned for a prolonged ground war when they placed their ordnrs, now must figure out what to do with the stuff­twen, perhaps, some of 900 million in little-loved Meals Heady to Eat. 
Besides food, the Pentagon has spent billions of dollars on 
iii $385 Korea 

'Schwarzkopf boot', many other war supplies left over 
trucks, ammunition, spare parts, clothing and other sup­plies for U.S. troops in the Per­sian Gulf. 
In recent weeks, the Defense Department has signed con­tracts for nearly 6 million cam­ouflage jackets and trousers ($138 million), 1.4 million pairs of the newly designed "Schwarzkopf boot" ($63.2 million) and 44,000 shrapnel­protection vests ($9. 9 million). 
Since last week's cease fire, however, "it's like we're trying to turn a river around," says 


Gifts galore await troops 
Discounts on tuition, travel, baseball tickets 
Americans are tying a yellow ribbon around a vast array of gifts, freebies and perks for troops who served in the Per­sian Gulf-offering them every­thing from casino flings to breaks on college tuition. 
On top of hero's welcomes coast to coast, merchants, lawmakers and promoters are busy drafting shopping lists of goodies to shower upon the more than half a million men and women who served in the gulf. 
With some restrictions, the freebies include a night's stay at a casino, steamboat cruises, treks through a movie studio, baseball games and hunting and fishing licenses. 
Discounts of as much as 70 percent are being offered on several airlines. Restaurants, a winery owner and other smaller enterprises are putting together packages that cut prices for military personnel. 
And after the hoopla dies down, the troops will find more bargains at state-run colleges and universities offering free tuition. 
The returning members of the 253rd Transportation Company of the New Jersey Army Na­tional Guard will be able to make another trip to the sands-this time to the Sands Hotel & Casino in Atlantic City. The hotel is giving them a free overnight stay and a free meal at the casino's Italian gourmet restaurant. 
Steamboat Casino River Cruises, which will begin river­boat gambling on the Missis­sippi River off Iowa's eastern shore on April 1. is offering a free cruise for soldiers who are at least 21 years old. 
"It's our way of saying, 'Welcome home and thank you for your gallant efforts in the Persian Gulf,"' said spokeswoman Carol Heaton. 
Collette Tours of Pawtucket, 
R.I. is offering all returning soldiers a discount of $150 per couple on a Collette land tour of seven days or longer. 
"We've got your calm after the storm," is Collette's new motto. 
For the men and women tired of dining on MRE's-which stands for meals ready to eat, formerly known as C rations­the Steak Escape restaurant chain, based in Columbus, Ohio, is offering discounts to military personnel. 
And after as much as seven months of alcohol-free life in the Middle East desert, Califor­nia's wine country is offering homecoming bonuses of free lodging, meals and wine. 
"Sonoma County has always been considered a good place to rest and relax-not like a Dis­neyland," Pat Ross, executive director of the county's Conven­tion and Visitors Bureau. 
Other military personnel in California can take advantage of a free tour through Universal Studios in Universal City, Calif. 

Frank Johnson, a spokesman for the Defense Personnel Sup­port Center in Philadelphia. 
Much of the leftover material will be used to rebuild military stockpiles depleted by the gulf deployment. 
"We are going to have to re­stock the shelves," Johnson said Tuesday. "We've got to refill our war reserves... we've got to get ourselves to a comfortable level where, if another war broke out tomorrow, we'd be OK." 
Clearing out excess hardware 

BARTENDER 

Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the 
INFORMATION DESK LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *Deadline for applications is March 29* 
will probably take a year, said Major Peter Keating, an Army spokesman at the Pentagon. Ammunition will have to be in­spected, cleaned, repackaged and put back into stocks or disposed of in an environmen­tally safe way if it can't be used, he said. 
Vehicles bought specifically for the gulf buildup may be sold to foreign countries, subject to congressional approval, through the State Department's foreign military sales program. Some older Bradley fighting ve­hicles, one of the main weapons in the ground war, already were considered surplus before the buildup and may be sold abroad. 
Some Iraqi equipment cap­tured by allied troops, such as modern, Soviet-made T-72 tanks and BMP-2 infantry vehi­cles, will be shipped to the United States, stripped down and examined to glean techni­cal information, Keating said. Much of the rest likely will be sold as scrap. 


··..'.:.....·.·.:.'.·.'.~.~:
•..·.·.-.;.··:·~.:iff:\i·'';/.::: .'':)\:: •·\ •• ··' 
. )::~········· 

/'',',.j""f't'\f'l 'IOIIJ K/EIEP 05'11 SNUff'IJQff'IJ(il•• , 
All OUR lOVE 
M., D., J., and H. 

--------~--~----------------------------------------------­

For the past six weeks, this space has been used to call the University Community together to pray for peace in the Middle East and to remember by the name the relatives and friends of the Notre Dame community involved in this terrible conflict. 
Today we use this space to ask God's eternal rest for those who have died and God's healing and consolation for their many grieving families. We remember the casualties among coalition forces and the estimated 150,000 Iraqi war dead, whose listed names would never be able to fit on this page. 
The Office of Campus Ministry expresses its gratitude to the various members ofthe faculty and staff who have been willing to accompany students in discussion about the formation of conscience and the issues of conscientious objection. We wish to inform the student body that this service continues to be available through the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library. 
We also invite conversation and suggestions seeking ways in which the University community can more effectively be called to engage the issues of violence and injustice so that seeds may be planted in our own lives which would grow to make su~h future conflicts unthinkable. 
------------------------~ ---~---­



Business 
Thursday, March 7, 1991 page 9 
Greenspan is optimistic about economy's future 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fed­eral Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, in a cautiously up­beat assessment, said Wednes­day the end of the Persian Gulf War had removed a "troublesome uncertainty" overhanging the U.S. economy. 
Greenspan said that there was not yet firm evidence that the recession was at an end. But he said a variety of factors, including the end to the war, lower interest rates and falling energy prices, should help to bolster consumer and business confidence in coming months. 
"A number of elements ap­pear to be moving into place that should enhance prospects for recovery," Greenspan told members of the House Ways and Means Committee. 
Greenspan's comments were viewed by financial markets as a signal that the central bank has decided to delay any fur­ther credit easing while await­ing future economic reports. 
"He was basically telling the markets that this recession was caused by the war, the war is over and therefore he thinks the recession is going to end without further prodding from the Fed," said David Wyss, an economist with DRI-McGraw Hill, a consulting firm in Lex­ington, Mass. 
The central bank, under pres­sure from the Bush administra­tion, began in late October an aggressive easing campaign in an effort to fight the recession. The effort pushed banks' prime lending rate down by a full per­centage point and helped to day. However, some analysts said Greenspan's comments may mean the Fed will wait un­til it sees post-war economic data in March before making any changes in interest rates. 


Greenspan's comments were carefully hedged to include the dangers still facing the econ­omy such as a continuing slow­down in bank lending and weak real estate markets. But he was still more optimistic than the assessment he made two weeks 
Alan Greenspan ago when the Persian Gulf War 
was still underway. send long-term mortgage rates to their lowest levels since early "Certainly, the successful end to 
1987. the hostilities in the gulf has Many economists had been removed a troublesome uncer­looking for the Fed to ease tainty and should provide some 
again following release of what lift to consumer and business was expected to be a weak confidence," Greenspan said. unemployment report this Fri-"On balance, when these posi­tive forces are weighed with the negatives, the scales appear to tip slightly in favor of suggesting that the current downturn might well prove milder than most of the recessions of the past 40 years." 
Greenspan said there were already some encouraging, although sketchy, reports of a return of consumer confidence. He said that in the days imme­diately following the end of the war, traffic picked up in real estate offices and auto show­rooms, raising "the possibility that stronger consumer de­mand may be emerging." 
While sounding a tentative note of optimism, Greenspan made it clear that he was still worried about a variety of problems facing the economy. 

Executives advise government to allocate money for food programs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
U.S. work force will lose its competitive edge unless the government allocates more money for programs that pro­vide food for poor women and their babies, five corporate ex­ecutives told a House panel Wedrwsday. 
John Clendenin, chairman and chief executive officer of BeliSouth Corp .. said the vast majority of his company's employnes come from nine southern states that historically have had some of the worst poverty in the nation. 
"We are especially concerned with the plight of minority chil­dren," he told the House Budget Committee, citing research that indicates black children are more likely to live in poverty, more likely to die during the first year of life and more likely to be born with low birthweight than white children. 
The Southern labor force cannot afford to lose the mi­nority children, Clendenin said. 
Clendenin and the other exec­utives urged Congress to pro­vide more money for the federal Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children. 

"Seldom in business does an investment have the return on initial investment and long-term strategic value" provided by the program, said Robert Allen, chief executive officer of AT&T. 
James Renier, chairman of Honeywell Inc., also praised the program. 
"From a business perspective, the program is a near-perfect allocation of resources," Renier said. 
WIC has never provided enough money to feed all the 
eligible low-income women and children in the country, though studies have documented its success in reducing future health costs and improving school performance. 
Every dollar invested in WIC for pregnant women produces $1.77 to $3.13 in Medicaid sav­ings for newborns and their mothers in the first 60 days after birth, studies have shown. 
WIC feeding also has been shown to reduce the risk of low birthweight and increase the head size of infants. Head size at birth is a reflection of brain growth during pregnancy. 
Only Mark $2.50 YourWOMENEach BookA Film Festival How Filmmakers Depict Women Beaches 1988 Color 120 min. PG-13 A Woman of the Dunes 1964 B/W 123 min. Director: Garry Marshall. Director: Hiroshi Teshigahara. Cast: Bette Midler, Barbara Hershey, John Heard, Spalding Gray Cast: Eiji Okada, Kyoko Kishida Beaches depicts the 30-yearfriendship betweenpolar opposites: C. C. Bloom(BetteMidler), This mysterious tale of an entomologist collecting beetles on the dunes who misses his bus a lower-class Jew from the Bronx; and Hillary Whitney (Barbara Hershey), a blue-blooded back to the city. Through the help oflocals, he spends the night in a sand pit and fmds he is WASP from San Francisco. trapped there the following morning. Japanese with English Subtitles Cushing Engineering Auditorium, Monday, March 18, 7:30pm. HesburghLibrpry, Monday, April 15, 7:30pm. My Brilliant Career 1979 Color 101 min. G Men... 1985 Color 99 min. German with Subtitles Director: Gillian Armstrong Director: Doris Dorrie Cast: Judy Davis, Sam Neill, Wendy Hughes. Cast: Heiner Lauterbach, Ulrike Kriener, Uwe Ochsenknecht., Janna Marangosoff My Brilliant Career is about ayoung woman clearly born before her time. It is the waning In this tongue-in-cheek anthropological study of the attitudes and aspirations of men, a yearsofthenineteenthcentury, when theonly respectable status for awomanis to bemarried. hotshot advertising executive, who has been having an affair with his secretary, is outraged SybyllaMelvyn(Judy Davis), who lives withherfamily in the Australianbush,doesnot want to discover that his wife has a lover. Devastated at first, he finally decides to gel even, and his revenge is one of the most inventive and hilarious films ever on screen.to marry. She has "immortal longings." Cushing Engineering Auditorium, Monday, Apri/22, 7:30p.m. Cushing Engineering Auditorium, Monday, March 25, 7:30p.m. The Color Purple 1985 Color 152 min. PG-13Harlan County, U.S.A. 1977 Color 103 min. PG Director: Steven Spielberg Producer and director: Barbara Capella Cast: Whoopi Goldberg, Danny Glover, Adolph Caesar, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrey.Portraying a classic twentieth century conflict between labor and management, Harlan About the growth to maturity and independence of a mistreated black woman, marks theCounty, U.S.A. chronicles the efforts of 180 coal mining families toward a union contract unlikely but spectacular collaboration of two of the most successful emotionalists inin 1974. This Oscar-winning documentary is both tragic and riveting. contemporary American narrative: Steven Spielberg andblack feminist writer Alice Walker. ETS Thealre, CCE, Monday, AprilS, 7:30pm. Cushing Engineering Auditorium, Monday, April29, 7:30pm.  

Studies also have shown that children participating in WIC have higher vocabulary test scores in school and do better on memory tests. 
The $2.4 billion appropriated for the program this year is expected to serve only 54 per­cent of the 8. 7 million eligible individuals. 
President Bush has requested $2.57 billion for WIC in fiscal 1992, but it is estimated that Congress would have to spend $3.75 billion to reach all the el­igible women and children. 

1 
,~ 
,
,
, 
1 
~ 

,1 
1 
I 
~ 

""',
, 
1 
.... 

r 
r 
r 
I 
r 
r 
I ~ 
r 
r 
r
,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r-
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r· r r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
,r ' 
----~--------------------------. 

Viewpoint
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Confined Marines issue a plea for help 
Dear Editor: 
I received the following note on the BITNET computer network, and thought you'd find it of interest: 
"We, fifteen United States Marines, being confined at Camp Lejeune, N.C., petition the freedom-loving citizens of the world on behalf of peace and justice. Our only 'crime' is re­fusing to participate in war. Yet we are about to be tried as 'deserters' and face seven years of imprisonment. We have committed no crime and have not harmed another human be­ing in any way. Because we refuse to kill, we are going to be tried in the same category as murderers and rapists. None of us 'deserted' the military but voluntarily submitted ourselves to the mercy of the military jus­tice system. Each of us legally seeks non-combatant duties in any civilian government job or a complete discharge because our conscience will not allow us to participate in war. 
From the beginning of our ordeal, it was evident that the military justice system had no intention of freeing us. The standard option of an Other Than Honorable discharge was denied to make an 'example" out of us. Our commanding general, Major General Cooper, is believed to have said that he would like to see us sentenced to at least one year in prison. Some of us have received vio­lent letters and phone calls threatening our personal safety and that of our families. Four of us were locked in our barracks by some Marines who threatened to 'kick our ass' if we came out. One Marine had a nervous breakdown under this extreme mental pressure. 

Clearly, the military justice system is attempting to make an 'example' of those who choose to stand for peace. We believe in the freedom our country was founded upon, and that every American Citizen has the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Yes, all of us signed contracts with the military; however, we are will­ing to fulfill the remainder of our contracts in any civilian 
Correlation between 'apathetic' and 'ignorant' disappoints campaigner 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to an editorial written by Tina Clark and Molly O'Neil (The Observer, March 5). To learn of your disappointment and offended feelings was in turn very disappointing for me. The dis­appointment I am experiencing does not pertain to their edito­rial, but to the obvious misun­derstanding that caused the editorial to be written. 
Taking into account the quo­tations given in the election re­sult article (The Observer, Feb. 28), I understand why Miss Clark and Miss O'Neil reacted as they did. However, it is im­portant to realize that the quo­tations were incomplete and the context in which they were given was not explained. 
The Observer failed to include both my opinion of the week­long campaign being an enjoy-
DOONESBURY 
able one and my words of gratitude toward the many people who helped and sup­ported us. These statements in­tended to both give recognition to the winning Cathcart ticket and fellow classmates. For some reason, The Observer re­porter chose to delete an im­portant part of what I said: ei­ther he didn't think it would be of interest to the readers or he didn't think I would care. He was wrong on both accounts. 
Furthermore, the interpreta­tion of what was printed was incorrect. In one instance, the accent of the sentence was overlooked both by the reporter and consequently by Miss Clark and Miss O'Neil: "/ really think we deserved to win." This was not intended as a derogatory statement toward the Cathcart ticket for the class as a whole, but one of sincere satisfaction with the effort my ticket put 

forth. Unfortunately, more meaning is being stuffed into my statement than I put into it. 
Shawn's statement was also incomplete. "Apathy ran strong." appeared in The Ob­server article. What was actu­ally being discussed was the disappointing percentages of the number of people turning out at the polls. The actual statement was, "Apathy ran strong in the two towers." (Only 39 percent of the sophomores voted in the class election run­offs.) 
The definition of "apathetic" according to Webster's New World Dictionary means not in­terested or indifferent. Only 
52.4 percent of the entire sophomore class voted in the run-offs (Information dis­tributed by Election Committee to all candidates). It seems ac­curate to say that 47.6 percent 
REAL-6(X)[), 
ANYTHING

{APTAIN. IT'S 
I CAN[}()

NICCOF>W 
FOR YOU?

7001&0<.. 
I I 
government job as long as it does not conflict with our beliefs or support the 'war machine'. 
If you believe in freedom and peace, please take action. Don't let this terrible injustice occur. We desperately need your sup­port. Help liherate us, and help save lives in the Persian Gulf. If enough people care, change will come. 
In Love and Peace of Humanity, 
The fifteen Conscientious Objectors being held at Camp Lejeune, N.C." 
John Buncek 
Moreau Seminary 
Feb.27,1991 
Thursday, March 7, 1991 

Submissions accepted for daily quotes 
If you know a short, inspirational saying, lyric or word of wisdom you feel is enlightening enough for our Quote of the Day section, send it in. 
Send your favorite quote or quotes with the person's name who said it and your name to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Or, simply drop them off in the QUOTES box at The Observer, 3rd floor LaFortune. 
Joe Moody Viewpoint Editor 1991-92 

of the class was apathetic or indifferent to the election re­sults. Therefore, I'm not sure how one might rebut Shawn's statement pertaining to tower apathy or my own statement about many of the classmates not seeming to care. 
I'm not sure how Miss Clark or Miss O'Neil made the corre­lation between "apathetic" and ignorant. I must therefore re­fute this allegation they made. To construe any image of Notre Dame students with the label of "ignorant" seems ludicrous to me. 
As evidenced by The Observer article (Feb. 28) we all know that poor communication fos­ters misunderstandings. I hope I have clarified any such misunderstandings that Miss Clark, Miss O'Neil, or anyone else may have had about the election results. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
In conclusion, I am compelled to share the dominating feeling I have possessed while writing this letter: disappointment. This disappointment does not rest on losing the election. Wins and losses come and go. Mv disappointment runs deeper. I have never had my character or integrity questioned in the way Miss Clark and Miss O'Neil im­plied in their editorial. I feel be­trayed and frustrated. Betrayed -because I dedicated all my time and energy during the campaign week to the class of '93. I wanted to make a com­mitment to make a difference. Instead, accusations as well as a political cartoon were pub­lished. And frustrated -because I'm caught between what I am and what I've been presented as by something beyond my control -The Observer. 
Sonia L. Miller Knott Hall March 5, 1991 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MU,/T~ 
A6AIN5T 

'He not busy being born is
f?!f6UlA­
710~. BUT... 

busy dying.' 
I OKAY, OKAY, !CAN TAK£A 

Bob Dylan 

,.. 
r r 
I r 
Submit quotes to: QUOTES, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre f!ame, IN 46556 


Viewpoint
Thursday, March 7, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Student threatened with arrest for taking coffee cup 
Dear Editor: 
I generally avoid the security building since it is far from my typical theater of operations, I h1sburgh Library. However, as a graduate student, l have to work all weekend, and if l have to write on Sunday morning, I must do it at the Mac lab in the seeurity building. 
The problem started when I took a lunch break and left the lab. After asking a couple of ofric11rs if they knew where I eould find some coffee (there was none), I looked around for a room to relax and eat. Entering an open door, I dropped my things in what ap­peared to bn an empty class­room, found an empty cup, fillnd it at the water fountain, returned to thH room and be­gan to eat and to read my newspaper. 
A fnw minutns later. an offi­cer eame into the room with an aeeusatory attitude and in­formed mn that I was not in just any room. I was in a "sneured" room with many un­named deviees and areas that were otT limits to studnnts, and I had to leave. l didn't mind leaving, but I did mind his insinuation that l was doing something sneaky or disruptive, or that l was deliberately breaking the "rules." I explained that l was tmting lunch and that was all, in a room that looked to me like any other classroom, and as I gathered my things I suggested that if they were going to be so upset about people wandering into their territory, they should put up signs or close the doors. 


Upstairs were several class­rooms that appeared safe and unsecured, as they had a few studious undergrads as occu­pants. I sat down and contin­ued with my lunch and newspaper. A few minutes later, two officers burst angrily into the room and demanded that I come with them. I noticed the revolvers at their hips, felt a bit outgunned and overpowered, and couldn't help the rush of terror that I felt as my unconscious made an association with another similar encounter. 
In the earlier case, it was soldiers who were intoxicated with the power of their weapons and the arrogance of being allied with the authorities of that moment and place. Their anger was palpable, though it had nothing to do with me, as they stopped me at a makeshift roadblock. I tried to explain that I was a 
U.N. relief worker, that they had no reason to stop me. But my identity and humanity didn't matter. I was rich and white, the immediate symbol of their oppression, driving one of the perks that come with that oppression, a jeep. They were blaek and poor and very angry and self righteous. Did they want to kill me, or did they just want what I had? I took a chance on the latter and escaped. 
So once again, this time in my own backyard, I was interrogated, intimidated and humiliated. Who was I? Where was my I.D.? What was I doing there? Why did I steal that cup? Did I know that was larceny? Was I aware that they could arrest me? Once again, it was made perfectly clear to me who had the power and what they could do with it. I was compelled to capitulate and ap­pease, to grant them the sense of power they demanded as a salve for their hostility, to grovel and ask to be shown mercy for an offence I did not knowingly commit. 
What is the reason for their self righteousness and anger, I wonder? Why are cops always like this? Why do they pick on me? What is it about the pos­session of a cheap coffee cup that causes such a torrent of verbal abuse? As a very poor (but perhaps no longer working class) graduate student, am I somehow again a symbol of a violent person's oppression and pain? These abstract, intellec­tual musings are only possible in a society such as ours, where some remnant of order persists in the face of a strong undercurrent of alienation and violence. J wonder if it will hold against the tide of hatred in our inner cities, against the anger of victims of our claims to possession and territory around the world, against the pain of oppressed people ev­erywhere. Facing violence when powerless may may be a good learning experience for those of us who are comfortable and powerful. who too easily forget the consequences of our domi­nation·. Maybe that's why ac­tivists since the civil rights movement have confronted the oppressor and gotten arrested and killed for it. 
In that moment, I was the victim; there was no adrenaline left over for musings. My brain could barely handle the very real danger of the moment. Once again, I was full of fear as I faced the threat; were they going to arrest me, or did they just want what I had? 
Fortunately for me, it was once again the latter. Once of the officers grabbed the cup, and they stalked off in the other direction. All I lost in the encounter was the concentra­tion I needed to write my paper. I ponder the lost lives and livelihood of the millions who are so much braver than I. 
David Carrier Graduate Student Economics Department March 3,1991 

Issue of cultural diversity evokes ·'trenchant' response in this country 

Dear Editor: 
Jennifer Crosson's letter to the editor (The Observer, Feb 2(») invites dialogue around the challenge cultural diversity poses for the Notre Dame community: What is the role of the academy? While this qunstion seems readily satisfied by debate over enlarging the core curriculum to include a course in cultural diversity, Ms. Crosson inquires into deeper, less easily closed isues: What is the nature of the western inlllllectural tradition that it resists such expansion, and why does the challenge of cultural diversity evoke such polarized and trenchant responses in this country, which Ms.Crosson would sug­gest wn euphemistically call a 'democracy'? 
Thnse two questions probe ttw same hazy fields of intllllectural and political self­image, although from diiTerent directions. The first, regarding the intellectual tradition, inquires into the nature of the "the classic," the implicit def­inition of which has determined the boundaries and character of the western literary canon; collectively, the canon describes the western in­tnllectual identity-or, in what guise western literate culture has implicitly chosen to portray Itself. The second questions topic of study; this second question appears to aim for a more precise definition of what constitutes American democracy, but, I think, asks the more profound question of how Americans conceive and imagine their political identity. Both questions focus upon the problematic relationship be­tween rhetoric and truth; is history telling me "the truth," or am I reading someone's vi­sion of what history should or could be? This question is quite complex and l do not attempt any definitive response, but I suggest certain ways in which our earliest western cultural 
heritage has prepared us all for precisely this dilemma. 
When the Persian Gulf War is nominally over, the nation will no doubt celebrate is casualties with first a televised memorial service and then the commissioning of a monument to the loss. President Bush will, no doubt, contribute to the long-established tradition of the funeral oration, redeeming lost youth with the glory of freeing yet another nonwestern country to democratic privi­leges. Perhaps the president will go on to gracefully denigrate his own eloquence before the nobler gesture, young soldiers having given their lives for their country, whose remains lie before him at Arlington Cometary. The speech will be, practically speaking, a long string of diches, but the kind of cliches which seem to be welcomed in such a moment of national mourning. 
Now the tradition President Bush will follow extends back to one of our earliest political genres, the funeral oration, the most renowned of which is the funeral oration of Pericles, given in the winter of 431 b.c.e. over the early deaths of the Peloponnesioan War between Athens and Sparta. The oration is related by Thucydides in his history of the war and recalls Pericles, the famous "father of democracy," who presided over Athens' rise to power as the 'new' government of the peole which the U.S. political system memorializes. The few quotes I list will sound very familiar to our ears: 
"These men have shown themselves valiant inaction, and it would be enough, I think, for their glories to be proclaimed in action, as you have just seen it done at this funeral organized by the state...I have no wish to make a long speech on subjects familiar to you all, so I shall say nothing about the warlike deeds by which we acquired our power or the battles in which we or our fathers gallantly resisted our enemies ... Let me say that our system of government does not copy the institutions of our neighbors. It is more the case of our being a model to others, than our imitating anyone else. Our constitution is called a democracy because power is in the hands not of a minority but of the whole people. When it is a question of settling private disputes, everyone is equal before the law...We give our obedience to those whom we put in positions of authority, and we obey the laws them­selves, especially whose which are for the protection of the oppressed, and those unwritten laws which it is an ac­knowledged shame to break...Then there is the great difference between us and our opponents, in our attitude towards military security ... Our city is open to the world, and we have no periodical deportations in order to prevent people observing or finding our secrets which might be of military advantage to the enemy. This is because we rely, not on secret weapons, but on our real courage and loyalty ... " 
While Pericles' (that is, Thucydides') praise of democracy may sound elegant to us now, in its day it was, actually, a rather turgid and poor example of the funeral oration genre. In fact, the overworked cliches throughout perhaps suggest why Athens was to be abjectly humiliated by Sparta. By 431, Pericles' vision of democrary and Athens had already reached is apogee. The city could claim many colonies which were efficiently being raped economically. Through extensive domestic economic programs, alien merchants had been drawn to settle in the city. The Akropolis was being covered with monu­ments to the greatness of Athens. Athena herself, the patron goddess of the city, had been split in two-a patriotic version of the goddess enshrined on the Akropolis and the less extravagant icon to the side for explicit worhip purposes. The complete realization of Athenian greatness in 431 is embodied, for many, in the Parthenon, whose elegant classical lines are achieved through the most sophisticated mathematic! proportions. For the practical future of democracy as a world power, Pericles' deliberate and highly successful propaganda campaign is perhaps his most significant legacy, and yet this is rarely what we remember as the glory of Athenian empire. 
A major reason for our inaccurate memories is the rise of rhetoric in the 4th century as a significant vehicle for preserving the image of Athen in its apogee. While Athenian democracy as we think of it no longer existed, Demosthenes, Aeschines, and other oratorical giants made their political fortunes perpetuating the mythology Pericles had created. Ironically enough, whereas at least half of Pericle's Athens (resident alien merchants and slaves) were denied citizenship because they could not claim full-blooded Athenian ancestry, the Athens of Demosthenes and Lysias found itself compelled to grant citizenship more liberally, because the city was so dependent financially and militarily upon immigration. So if we complain that the Pentagon or our president "insults our intelligence" with patriotic cliches and deception, we must rembmer they are honoring a long political tradition that was born with democracy in 5th century Periclean Athens. Perhaps we would be more faithful to the western intellectual heritage if we held them accountable for their poor rhetorical skills. 
Plato's Republic, was influ­enced or indeed motivated by rhetorical genre. I do not here suggest that Plato is more of a Sophist than we have allowed ourselves to admit; rather, Plato draws upon a pool of generic conventions which are inherently flawed for the purposes of genuine political theory. Flawed, because rhetorical conventions completed the process Pericles intiated, or transforming Athens form a political reality into a political idea. Building upon this foundation, which the Republic inevitably does, Plato's recommendations raise questions perinent of his use of rhetoric before those concerning the sincerity of his political programme. 
The next question is, to what extent Plato was self­consciously building upon and supporting, or satirizing, the fate of Athenian democracy to live on only in language. This jucture is precisely where the question of litarary canon becomes crucial; in what tone and with what interpretation of contemporary Athenian history was the first acknowledged politial philosopy written? 
Tamsln L. Bomar Dept. of Classical and Oriental languages Feb.27,1991 


Clarification 

In Tuesday's Observer (March 5), the column on gay/lesbian organizations was by Mike J:K.Miller. 
In both columns concerning gay/lesbian organizations, neither Mike 
W. Miller nor Rick Acker are members of the Iceberg Debates Standing Committee as stated. The Observer regrets the error. 
-





Accent 
page 12 Thursday, March 7, 1991 

Wild 


Spring Breaks 
BY SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 
Accent Writer 

abin fever is sweeping across campus
C 
in epidemic proportions. 
As spring break draws temptingly 
closer, students are positively itching 
for a vacation. And it seems like 
almost everybody is planning a trip of some kind-whether they're piling into a car and heading to Florida or simply flying home. 
Not all students will be following in the pattern of ~opular traditional vacations, however. Many believe that all one needs is a little creativity in order to create the ideal spring break. Students who fall into this category have been planning wilder and wackier spring breaks than ever before. 
Take, for example, Senior Mark Calzolano, who summed up his plans for spring break with the question, "How about Aspen, Colorado on $300 or less?" Skiing buffs know that this is going to be one heck of an impressive feat. The costs of skiing alone are almost as high as the mountains on which he'll be vacationing. Throw in the cost of eating (Vail has the most expensive McDonalds in the world). and Calzolano might just be going for a Guinness World Record. 
"I'm going with (Seniors) Eric Scharpf and Matt Ayers. We're all graduating seniors. This is that last fling before we're completely and totally responsible for the rest of our lives," Calzolano added. Many seniors plan to take part in similarly noble "last fling" vacation prospects before graduation rolls around. 
Senior Joe Hoff is planning to fly to Acapulco, Mexico with a group of twelve friends. 1\vo of the students made arrangements for the hotel through a timeshare and the twelve will be "staying practically for free in a six star hotel right on the beach." 
Sophomore Katie Eustermann shared a funky spring break experience which required little money, also. She and a few friends used to go to ski lodges and play crazy games. "We'd pick a certain person and if they broke a rule, they'd have to spin the wheel of torture." If the person lost, they were required to undergo one of many various tortures. "They'd shave off your left eyebrow, draw a map along your spinal column, or shave your initials in your chest hairs." 
Freshman Kirstin Yeend took part in a rather exhilarating experience last spring with her boyfriend, Jason. "We were trying to decide where to go for dinner, and we finally decided on seafood." Jason mentioned "a marvelous place in San Francisco," but Yeend completely disregarded his remark, because San Francisco was a nine hour drive away. A few hours later, the two were sitting in Jason's dad's jet, and "his dad's pilot flew us to L.A....We ate on Fisherman's Wharf, overlooking the bay," added Yeend. 
Many other students have experienced quite a different type of spring break in Europe while participating in the Notre Dame foreign exchange programs. 
Junior Dave Schindler shared a distinctive memory from thel989-90 Angers program. "I went to Italy with a friend (Chris 0' Connell) and at the youth hostile we broke out the guitar and sang songs with all the foreigners." At one point the patron of the Venice hostile broke in, interrupted their singing and asked them to take their. music outside. The two complied, and amazmgly enough, were followed by about 65 other spririted voices. "We sang songs for about t~ree hours. It was one of the best nights of my hfe. It was beautiful," Schindler said. 
Junior Chris Murphy participated in the foreign studies program, also. "I went to Greece, and met this really cute girl (an old girlfriend)." The two initially wanted to spend "a very romantic week together." However, one night, the two of them had no place to stay, and "wound up on a cement block on the top of a mountain in Hydra." The week turned out a little less romantic than he'd hoped, Murphy added. 
Murphy later traveled to Berlin during the break, and wanted to chip off a piece of the Berlin Wall for himself. He borrowed a hammer from an old German woman, and "took out all of my frustrations on that hammer. Eventually, I went, 'this one's for freedom!' and the mallet fell off of the hammer and broke. I just kind of gave it back to her and said, "'Dankeschon'." 
Hans Detlefsen, a prospective student, volunteered a distinctive spring break memory. "I went to Rome for a spring break. and lived in a convent. We had three meals a day with the nuns and bought lots of Italian ice cream." 
Senior Greg Olson who participated in the Angers program shared a rather interesting story about his spring break abroad. "I went to Belgium and got in a car accident. I was in France and was supposed to go to the beach." Olson woke up late and hurried to the train station, but couldn't find the friends that he had initially planned on traveling with. Olson met up with "a Swedish dude who was going to Belgium," and wound up changing his plans to join him. 
During the following week, the two were driving to the beach with some friends in two different cars. There were about six people in each car and and they were having a good time, until the guy in front of them realized too suddenly and too late that the light was yellow. He attempted to slow down, but it was too late and Olson smashed into the other car. The two simply "called up the insurance dudes," and then went on to the beach, according to the easygoing Olson. 
Others had similar incidents of bad luck. Junior Jim Barr described his spring break last March "We went to South Padre. MTV was there and had planned various scheduled events, sponsored by Bacardi. There was a mass exodus out to the pool to see the tan line competition," and Barr joined the crowds in curiousity. The show "ended up to be about six couples on the stage having sex...We skipped the rest of the events" because they were "kind of tacky," added Barr. 
Junior Carrie Goles was in South Padre during the same time period. "We were in Padre downing beers like water," Goles began. "Some guys from Dillon were doing keg stands and seeing how long they could do it. After shotgunning several beers, some shots of vodka. and three tries at the keg stand, "I did it for 56 seconds." Goles won the competition hands down. "We're going back to do it again this Saturday," Goles added. 
Senior Mike Blood also shared a favorite spring break memory. "Eighteen of us" lived on three sailboats for a week. The ships departed from Fort Lauderdale to the Bahamas, and then back again. 
Senior John McDevitt shared an experience about his sophomore year spring break trip to New York. "We went to New York City for a whole week. We were touring the city and told this one guy (Brian Boswell) not to look up at all the buildings like a tourist." but Boswell didn't listen. He wound up stepping into a pothole in the middle of a slush puddle and had to take off his socks in front of Saint Patrick's Cathedral according to McDevitt. He walked around barefoot and complained about how cold it was for the rest of the day, McDevitt added. 
Sophomores Treven Santicola and Colin Clary are planning to pack six people into a small van with a velour interior and a "love couch in the back," and head for Vermont. We're just going to hang out. and maybe climb a mountain, if it's not too wet," Clary said. 
Freshman John Fronduti said, "I'm going to Texas with the crew team" and will be training all ~eek in preparation for a race on Saturday. Vanous other social activities, "and just general team bonding," are in store for the weekend according to Fronduti. ' 
Many are simply headed for home next week. But regardless of the destination, most students are just looking forward to a break. 

Thursday, March 6, 1991 The Observer page 13 
01iver leads Boilers over No. 2 Ohio St. 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. (AP) -Jimmy Oliver scored 27 points, including 9 o"f Purdue's final 15, as the Boilermakers upset No. 2 Ohio State 72-67 and kept the Buckeyes from clinching the Big Ten title outright Wednesday night. 
It was the sixth straight loss for Ohio State (26-2, 15-2) in West Lafayette since 1985. 
Ohio State closed to 68-67 when Perry Carter hit the first of two free throws and Jim Jackson sank a jumper off Carter's missed second shot with 1:J4left. 
But Oliver and Line Darner sank two free throws each in the final 1:03 to hold off the Buckeyes, who need a victory in their final game at Iowa or a loss by second-place Indiana to win their first outright Big Ten title since 1971. 
The victory kept Purdue (16­11, 8-10) in contention for a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
Ohio State trailed 53-45 with 
6:38 remaining, but then outscored Purdue 11-2 as the Boilermakers went nearly 4 minutes with just one basket on Chuckle White's dunk. 
Mark Baker's layup capped 
the run and gave Ohio State its 
first lead of the second half, 56­

"Either I got a year ripped off told me to be ready to go in Pirates was rendered meaning­Ojeda started 31 games for 55, with 6:38 remaining. The 
from me or I added another Pittsburgh that last weekend," Jess when the Pirates clinched the Mets in 1989 and had a 13-Boilermakers responded with a 
year to my career. I haven't re­he recalled. the NL East days before. So 11 record with a 3.47 earned 17-10 spurt, including 9 points 
ally talked like that before. by Oliver, over the final 5:55 to
The three-game season-end­Ojeda wasn't used as a starter run average. Last year, he Publicly, I always tried to just ing series between the Mets and in that series. wound up 7-6, 3.66. win the game. 

AP Photo With aces like Frank Viola on the staff, Ojeda was relegated to the bullpen late in the season. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day ctasslfleds Is 3p.m. All 
classifleds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
LOST: 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91·92 Loretta, Photography for Formals· Halls· From 11 B, to our freshman @ Fisher 1 PW Formal on Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232·1776. No matter what lies ahead I want Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS FRIENDS on the 8th floor: \ NOTICES Sat. March 2 you to know I love you more than Photography at 234-8539. Charcoal-grey, pin-striped Furnished Bedrooms and Shared anything else and will do anything to How could we avoid biting the TYPING AVAILABLE suit coat wl 213 dorm keys Living Areas, Avail. lor 91·92 Yr. save what we have together. To all ENGL 491A warriors: "All BAIT when you girls are such 287·4082 anached to FORD key ring. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month Love, Glenn wars are boyish and are fought by master baiters? 
includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. boys." words to live (and die) by ..... NY TIMES, used and new books IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL: STAND-UP COMEDIANS; need Hey PASTA chicksll Pandora·s Books 233·2342 Matt x1650 comedians for SUB comedy night FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY corner of NO ave. & Howard FOR SALE on April3; call Adam x3374 CALLING VANESSA 272·9305. You seem to have the wrong 10-5:30 everyday LOST: A CHARCOAL-GRAY idea about what's going to be 
SUIT COAT AT THE P.W. IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! ATIENTION LADIES: A Free Pizza to a person in room "in your FACE!" WORD PROCESSING ·Term FORMAL 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY Stuck on campus over break? 303 of any NDISMC dorm from -11B papers. reports, letters, etc. CALL ED AT X1891 OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM Looking for something to do? Gina's Pizza 271·0200. Experienced legal secretary. WIBAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN Call x4246 to make it the most FRITZ KLEIN: 
(616) 699·7387. LOST: Brown leather ID holder WALK FROM ND. APPT ONLY. exciting week you ever had! Hide your daughters! I DEFINITELY do not have you 
with $$$$ at bookstore or 234·8116, EVE. Hide your sons! confused with your former RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL library on 311. Reward if all HELP MEl (...please?) Hide your girlfriends! roommate John Green. There is no QUALITY. CALL 272·5667. Is returned. Teresa 271·9299 Bar with sink. Five stools. Misc. Desparate female needs a ride to Hide your boyfriends! mistaking your tantalizing flesh, 
glasses. 289-5345. the Windy City for break. If you are Hide your face, you make me ill! your burning passion, and your WORD PROCESSING LOST: multicolored cloth driving to Chicago on Thurs., Mar. Because Five Guys Who Aren't flaming desires that I long for in the Low Rates • 277·6091 changepurse, lost between Main INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 7, please give me a call. (I'll even Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing depths of every morning, day, 
Circle and PW. Great sentimental Buying a car? Good rates. Call me ride in the trunk, will pay tolls, etc.) Basketball are coming to a hoops evening, night -every waking, BASEBALL FANS value. You can keep the change, lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. Call Chris 283·4011. court near you. dreaming, moment. The thought of BASEBALL FANS just give me the changepurse! Call Office near campus. a week without you makes me lost · BASEBALL FANS Robyn at 2906. Gracias. •• RIGHT· TO-LIFE'' To whomever "borrowed" the alone-counting every minute ~oron RTS racquetball racquet Interested in being an officer for Charlatans UK disk from the party (14,400), second 
Draft your own Fantasy next year?? There are many Saturday at 1662 Turtle Creek: (864,000) until we can allow our League (Rotisserie) Team positions available for energetic It's pretty nice of you to come to love juices to flow again with fervor. and compete in a league with Pro-Life students. For info. please our party, drink for free, and help •••a lustful admirer••• 
WANTED _ 
$99/best 233·3059 

~-S-UM_M_E_R-JO_B_S_ __, I TICKETS 
fellow Notre Dame students! contact Maria at x2613, Julie at yourself to a CD that was not even (American League only.) ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS -x4859. Mary Lee at x2671, or Bill at ours!!! MARCH 9TH IS SUSAN YATES'S '
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Denver air: lv 319 (or open on x4062. Call today! IIIII! Anyway, we DO need it back, and 21ST BIRTHDAY If interested please respond ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Amtrak,) ret 3115. OW $120, AT •• RIGHT· TO· LIFE'' if you could please return it in our quickly to Paul @ #3265. LAKE PLACID. CALL $200. Patrick 289·8390 mailbox ASAP we would appreciate Hey Baby hope you have a great 
1-800·343·8373. WANTED: PEOPLE TO HELP ME it..( no questions asked.) birthday 2 days and your legal! Luv· SBIChic/Denver !way IN PARK LANE JEWELRY. GET Thanks, your fellow piscean 
LOST/FOUND 
EARN $3001$500 PER WEEK Mar 9, Cheap 277-9361 FREE JEWELRY AND PAY ALSO. 1662 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 674·5960. Jennifer, 0' Jenny· FOUND: ONE MEN'S SEIKO 1·615·473·7440 EXT. B LOST AT PW I FISHER FORMAL: Get some sun and fun WATCH. FOUND IN THE PARKING I WISH I WERE MIKE KANE! IIIII ON SAT. MARCH 2 babe. Oh, and we are
I PERSONALS 
LOT (02) THE WEEK OF 2118-22. Need ride to WISCONSIN • His New York accent sounds like still accepting applica· CALL CAROLINE AT X4354 TO for a sunny Spring Break! i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for pure poetry. Charcoal-grey, pin-striped suit coat lions, aren't we? I'm CLAIM. Please call Frank at x1443 spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a • He's got a killer 10 (ask him, he'll wl 213 dorm keys attached to waltlng...·Debra 
and leave a message. great rider. show you.) FORD key ring. LOST 8·9 KEYS 2·22. THE KEY • He has a beautiful, faithful lover She was a fast machine CHAIN IS A WHITE BALL. Need a ride to NYC?? Call Jennifer 1991·92 HOLY CROSS (who accompanies him on those IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MATI She kept her motor clean REWARD. at X4842 ASSOCIATES· Applications due LONG 1 112-hour walks from X 1650 She was the best damn woman that 
CALL MARK X1584 MARCH 201 Contact M.A.White Flanner to Siegfried). I ever seen WANTED: PAINTERS (5521) or M.A. Roemer (7949). • BEST OF ALL, HE'S 20 YEARS Mr. Green, She had a saintly size, tellin' me no 
Someone accidently picked up Many rewards helping those who OLD TODAY! Happy 21st!!! Now that we·re both lies··Knockin' me out with those my long gray tweed winter College-Pro Painters looking for need you! If you wish you were Mike Kane too, 21 you'll have to take me out for American thighslllllll coat with a velvet collar painters lor the summer. call him at x1208, or just come on many drinks!! See you at the bars. 
Nowl....tng

Saturday night at a party on Work outside, with peers-Good over and grab him for yourself YourCuz, 
..
FAYETTE SQUARE

Notre Dame Ave. A similar Money! Resumes .... Professional quality (before Sarah does.) Liza 
coat was left behind. If you No Experience Necessary. 272-5667. (Tom Williams) Love, 

TOWNHOIIES 

have It please call Karin at Paul, Joe, Justin, Bert and SENIOR FROMAL 1991 
4 AIIIEDfiOOII UNI'TS 

x1992.] Locations: Chicagoland Rockford, Christopher. TONIGHT IS THE LAST NIGHT TO 
AVAJLA8U 

Madison-Wisconsin Tigers got to hunt REGISTER FOR SENIOR 
AmonJnn tnrt••· 

FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd Birds got to fly HEY, UTILE ANGELl! FORMAL. REGISTER FOR 
-WASHER & DRYER

floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2124191. Call: 1-800·544-3255 for Man's got tq sit and wonder WHAT'S UP? TABLES, ROOMS, ACTIVITIES, 
-SECURITY SYSTEM

Call Matt @3472. applications Why, why, why? I KNOW, I'M KINDA GLUE-ISH, FLOWERS, AND TUXEDOES. 
-DISHWASHER

Tigers got to sleep BUT I CAN'T HELP IT. 6-9 P.M. IN LEMANS. 
-CENTRAl AIR

Found lady's golden ring near the Birds got to land NOTE PREOCUPES, TE VOY A stadium. Paul 1.271·0868 FOR RENT Man's got to tell himself DEJAR AlAE. Riders needed-St. Louis x1607 ·PATIOS 
ONlY A FEW APARTMENTS Found: Men's watch In 02 parking GRAD. WEEKEND ice-nine AGUANTAR. Mary-So, another dance,eh? 
He understand. PERO ME VAS A TENER QUE 
LEFTI lot. Call x1852 to identify. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY TONIGHT at 9 LOVE, J. Which couple will it 
FOR MORE IFO NOW. 

219-291·7153. the coffeehouse (AUNQUE NO LO QUI ERAS!) be I wonder· Deb 
Z32-82lll 


page 14 Thursday, March 7, 1991




SCOREBOARD 
ASING: 



LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER & DRYER 
-SECURITY SYSTEM 
-DISHWASHER 
-CENTRAL AIR 
.. 
-PATIOS 
New York $125 Frankfurt $305 
London $250 Zurich $319 
Paris $305 

Scheduled carnerst Book anvtimet 

ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFTJ 
Fares 1/2 AT from Ch,cago Some re­stncttons apply. On-the-spot ratl· passes. lntl Student I D. cards. youth hostel passes. work and stuoy pro· grams. Call lor Catalog. 


CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
TRANSACTIONS NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Allnlll: Dlwllian 
IIAIEIW.l. 
All*lcM'I ...... 

w L I'd ol Randy Velarde, third baeman. 
NEW YORK YANKEEs-A-d the conti'8CI Boaton 44 18 .733 
Philadelphia 33 26 .559
......,.. ...... 

New York 28 32 .467 Tommy Gregg, outfielder, on a on•year contract. 
ATLANTA BRAVEs-Agreed to terms wHh 
Washington 22 37 .373 
Miami 19 40 .322

HOUSTON ASTROs-Agnoed to terrre wlh Eric NewJeraey t9 40 .322
Yetdlng, attort.top, on a one-year contrac:t. 
MONTREAl EXPOS-Agr* to terms with Bob McDonald, pHcher, on a on•year contract. 
~~~....... 

Chicago 42 t5 .737 wkh Wea Charrberlaln, outllelder, and Charlle 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE8-Agreed to terms Detroh 38 23 .623 
MliwaukM 36 24 .600

Hayea, third baaeman, on on•year contracts. 
Atlanta 34 25 .578

Renewed the contracts of Jose DeJesus and Indiana 28 31 .475 Cleveland 21 37 .362
Darrel Akerlelds, p~chers; Darrln Fletcher, catcher; 
and Sll Campuaano, outlielder. 
Charlotte 17 42 .288

PITTSBURGH PIRATEs-Agr* to terms with Stan Belinda. pftcher, on a one·year contract. 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 

SAN DIEGO PADRE8-Agr* to terms wHh Derek Lllllqulat, Andy Benea. Candy Sierra. Greg 
~IJvlalon 

w L Pd Shawn Abner and Jim Vatcher, outfleldera, and 
Harrfa and Rafael Valdez, pkchers; Oscar Azocar, Utah 40 18 .890 
San Antonio 37 19 .661 Houston 34 24 .586 IWIKE.111AU. 
Kevin Gamer, Infielder. on one-year oontr-. 
Dalal 22 36 .3711 Notonll........,.. Meodlo•on 
Orlando 20 311 .3311 
Min,__ 19 38 .333

DETROIT PISTON8-Piaced Lance Blanka. 
Denver 16 ·4t .281 forward, from the Injured 1181. NEW YORK KNICK8-Piaced Jerrod Mustaf, 
guard, on the Injured list. Activated John Salley, 
Padlc:DhWon forward, on the Injured list. Activated Greg Grant, 
Portland 45 14 .763 

LA Lakers 42 17 .712 Conllrwllll a.Mtllllll A8aoct.llorl 
guard. from the Injured list. 
Phoenix 311 f9 .672 Golden Slate 30 28 .517

CBA-Suapended Albany coach George Karl tor one game and fined him an undisclosed amount 
Seattle 29 29 .500 tor his actions In a game against Pensacola on 
LA Cllppera 20 39 .339 Feb. 22. 
Sacramento 16 4t .28t Wotld S.lllcelbll I..Mga» ERIE WAVE-signed Clinton Smtth and A.J. 
Weclr-m.y'• GarnH 
Boston 126, Miam 117 
New Yot11102, Detroit 99 
O~ando 89, LA Clippers 86 Wynder, guards. 
FOOTIIAU. 
Utah t04, Washington 93

c.nadlan Foolbllll I..Hgw HAMILTON TIGER..CATS-8igned Earl Winfield, 
Philadelphia 97, Dallaa 92 wtde receiver, to a two-year contract. TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Named Bruce 
Tlanday'a Ganwe Cowdrey olfenslve line coach. 
Phoenix at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. WOitd I..Mgw of Anwlca Footllllll 
Denver at Indiana, 7:30p.m. 

Seattle at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Ben Jeaale and Jamie FHzgerald, defensive backs; 
NEW YORK·NEW JERSEY KNIGHTs-Waived Dallas at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
LA Lakera at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. lineman, and and EIHott Eley, running bad<. 
Chris Chenauft, linebacker; John SUtton, offensive 
New Jeraey at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Ar.w Fooblll LHg.. Cleveland at Golden Slate, 10:30 p.m. DALLAS TEXANS-Named Drew Pearson coach. 
HOCKEY 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
NootioNII Hoc:by IMgua 

ST. LOUIS BLUES-Sent Tom Draper, goaltender, to Peoria of the International Hockey How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's league and Alain Raymond, goakender, to teams tared Wednesday: Naahvllle of the East Coast Hadley League. 1. Penn St. (27-t) beat Rhode Island 88-48. Amorlc:8n Hodl.ey ~..eeg.. 2. Virginia (27·2) did not play. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT ISLANDERS-Signed 3. Tennessee (25-5) did not play. Derek DeCoaty, left wtng. 4. Georgia (26-3) did not play. 
5. Purdue (25-2) beat Indiana 67·53. SOCCER 6. Auburn (24-5) did not play. MljorSocceriMg.. 7. N. Carolina St. (25-5) did not play. 
MSL-suspended Mike Stankovlc, Baltimore B. Arkanaaa (25-3) beat Baylor t 08·63. defenseman, tor one game and fined him $1,000 9. Stanford (22-4) did not play. for punching Tacoma's Sieve Kinsey In a game 1 0. LSU (24-6) did not play. Feb. 24. tt. W. Kentucky (25-2) did not play. 
12. Washington (21-4) did not play. COI..l.EGE t3. Connecticut (26-4) did not play. 
~ 
.... CLEMSON-Named Jim Sheridan men's and 14. Texaa (21-7) beat Rice t08-6t. women's swimming coach. 15. UNLV (24·5) VB. New Mexico St. at Big WestI FLORIDA-Named Charfee Strong defensive Tr. quartertlnals at Long Beach, CalW. 
end coach. 16. Providence (25-5) did not play. NORTHERN MONTANA-Named Loren Baker t7. S1ephen F. Austin (23-4) did not play. 
men's basketball coach. t8. Rutgera (23-5) beat St. Bonaventure 94-64. t OHIO STATE-Announced that Bobby April, 19. MlssiBBippl (20-8) did not play.l delenslve backa coach, has resigned to become 20. Northwestern (tQ.7) did not play. 
apeclal tearr. coach with the Atlanta Falcona. 21. Long Beach State (20-7) VB. Hawaii at Big 
l 
l 
PITTSBURGH-Named Jon Gruden wide West Tournament quartertlnals at Long Beach, I receivers coach and Tim Wilson strength and CalK. I condkionlng coach. 22. Clemson (21-10) did not play. 
PRATT-Announced the resignation of Jacob 23. Lamar (25-2) did not play. 
I 
Gruber, men's soccer coach. Named Rolp Hoppe 24. Iowa (tB-8) did not play.I Interim men's soccer coach. 25. George Washington (22·6) lost to S1. STEVENS TECH-Named Dan Palumbo and Joseph's 52-51. Tom Cerbo asalatant baaeball coaches and Mike 
t 



(B 

to tl2 18 21112 24tl2 24112 
8 71f.! II 
t5 21 tl2 28 
(B 
2 
8 

t8 20112 20112 23 112 
3 5112 t4 tl2 15 112 25 28 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 

PnickiJ...... w L T Pia 
L10 s..Jt Hanw AW«f Canf NY Rangera 34 22 12 80 8-4 Won2 2&-5 18-11 28-11 Philadelphia 3t 28 9 71 8·2 Wont 21-ll 12-t8 22-t2 Pittsburgh 33 30 4 70 7·3 Won! 13-tB 15-t4 18-t9 New Jeraey 28 29 t2 68 t-9 La.! 7 t5-t2 7-25 14-22 
Washington 29 32 6 64 5-5 La.! t t3-t8 8-22 t0-28 NY lalandera 22 37 9 53 4-8 La.! 3 14-16 5-24 12·23 Adlma lllvlalon 
•·Boston 38 22 8 84 •·Montreal 35 26 8 78 9·t Won! 2&-3 •·Buffalo 25 25 17 67
18-12 27-6 3-7 Lost 1 24-7 14·16 25-13 
•·Hartford 28 3t 9 65 8-4 La.! 2 25-5 11-19 24-15 Quebec t2 43 12 36 8-2 Won3 24-6 10.19 18-19 7-3 Wont 21-11 7·22 1Q.t9 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 5·5 Wont 14-16 7·21 13-23 
Norria lllv...... 

2·8 Lost4 12·t7 5-25 t0-26 
w L T Pia X·St. Loula 40 t8 9 89 •·Chicago 40 22 6 86 Detrok 29 32 8 66 
L10 s..Jt Hanw Awtiy Canf Minnesota 22 33 t3 57 8·2 Won5 25-4 t5-14 27-10 Toronto 19 41 8 46 4·6 Won2 22-6 15-13 24·12 Smytlw lllvlalon 7-3 Won2 2t-6 13-t8 20.17 x-Los Angeles 39 20 8 86 3-7 La.t 1 t4-t5 8-2t 12-22 x-Calgary 38 22 7 83 5-5 Wont t5-t5 5-24 18-25 Edmonton 32 5
3t 67 3·7 Wont 14·t5 5-23 14·28 Winnipeg 23 36 t1 57 2·8 Lost 1 13-16 3-25 8-28 Vancouver 24 39 
7 55 x-cllnched playoff berth 
5·5 Won! 28·3 17-11 27-10 WedrMadoty'a GallW!a 8-4 Lost2 23-8 19-1 t 27·1t New Jeraey 3, Buffalo 3, tie 
7·3 Won3 22·5 t7-14 . 24·13 
Montreal 5, Chicago 3 3-7 Lost2 tQ.9 tl-19 t8·2t 
Minnesota 5, Edmonton t 8-4 Lost t 19-9 10.20 t5-17 4·6 lost3 f5-12 5-27 t&-21 Tlanday'a Ganwe t-9 Wont t5-t2 1·29 t1·24 
St. Louis at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 

N.Y. Islanders at Detro~. 7:35p.m. Friday'aa.,.. 
Los Angeles at Pittsburgh. 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Quebec, 7:35p.m. 
Atlanta at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Vancouver at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia at Calgary, 9:35p.m 
Denver at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Phoenix at Washington, 8 p.m. Utah at Chicago. 8:30 p.m. Boston at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
Cleveland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams tared Wednesday: 
t. UNLV (27.0) did not play. Next: at Long Beach Slate, Friday. 
2. 
Ohio State (25-2) lost to Purdue 72.f;7. Next: at Iowa, Sunday. 

3. 
Indiana (25·4) did not play. Next: va. Mlnneaota. Thursday. 

4. 
Syracuse (26-4) did not play. Next: vs. VINanova·Boston College wtnner, Friday In the Big Eaat tournament.


INDIANA TOP 20 5. Atllansaa (28-3) did not play. Next: vs. Texas Tech-Texas A&M wtnner, Friday In the Southwest Conference tournament. 
6. Duke (25-6) did not play. Next: va. North Central. Carolina Slate-Georgia Tech wtnner. Saturday in t. Gary Rooseveft (24-1) va No.t5 E.Chlcago 
the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. Co. 50-45. 7. North Carolina (22·5) did not play. Next: vs. 
2. 
Bedford N. Lawrence (19-2) lost to Jennings 

Clemson, Friday In the Atlantic Coast Conference 67-58. tournament. 

3. 
Martinsville (2t·2) lost to Bloomington South 

8. Utah (28-2) did not play. Next: va. San Diego

4. 
lndpls 8rebeut (22-t) va Warren Central. 

St.·Air Force winner, Thursday In the Western

5. 
Waahlngton Calhollc (22.0) vs Pekin Eaatern. 

6. 
Concord (20-2) VB Westview. Athletic Conference tournament. 


9. Arizona (24-6) did not play. Next: va. Oregon South n-74. 
7. Muncie Central (t8-4) lost to No. tO Muncie State, Thursday. 
10. Kentucky (22-6) did not play.
8. S.Bend Riley (22·2) VB Portage. 
11. New Mexico State (23-4) did not play. Next:9. Warsaw (21-1) VB Glenn. 
vs. Fresno State, Friday In the Big West Hancock) . Conference tournament. tt. Terre Haute South (f9-3) va S.Putnam. 
tO. Muncie South (21-2) VB Mt.Vernon 
t2. Kansas (2t·6) did not play. Next: vs. 
Colorado, Friday In the Big Eight Conferencet2. Manchester (22·t) lost to Whltko 78-65. 
tournament. 91·74. 
t3. Mlch.C~y Elston (18·4) lost to No.18 LaPorte 
14. 
Jefferaonvllle (19-3) va Brownstown. 

15. 
E.Chlcago Central (tB-4) VB No.1 Gary 


Rooseve~. 

16. 
Evansville BOBBe (17-5) lost to Ev.Harrfson 69-68. 

17. 
Anderaon Highland (20.3) va Noblesville. t8. LaPorte (20-3) VB LaCrosse. 


American Heart 
t9. lndpla Ben Davis (t6-7) lost to No.4 lndpla Brebeuf61·57, OT. 
20. Fountain Central (23-0) VB Twin Lakes. 

Association 
GF ClA ~ Awtiy IJv 259 2t2 20·9-8 t4-13-8 13·9-5 225 215 t7·t2·6 14·16-3 tl-13 8 285 258 22·11-1 t 1-19-3 15-12-1 240 228 t9-~7 9-2().5 11-14-5 2t4 23t 17-tH t2-21-2 t8-t2·3 t94 250 t3-t8-6 9-21·3 tD-16-4 
253 229 22·8-3 t6·t4·5 15·8-3 238 2t3 t9-11·3 t&-15-5 12-tD-4 236 229 11-tt-11 t4·14·6 Q.1Q-7 204 230 18-14·4 12-17-5 Q.tt·5 190 304 8-19-8 8-24-4 6-12·7 
GF ClA ~ Away IJv 268 2t1 2t-8-6 t9-t2·3 t5·8·2 232 t78 23·8-3 t7-14·3 t5·7·3 24t 259 24-t2·0 5-2().8 t2-t2·3 2t2 228 t4·14·8 6-t9·7 7·t3-4 207 282 t3-2t·2 6-2().6 7·16·2 
287 2t2 22·8·4 t7-t2·4 t5·7-4 285 213 23·7-2 15-15-5 13·7-3 229 229 18-t2·3 13-20-2 11·t2·2 234 253 15-t&-5 8-2().6 8·11·6 208 2n t5-t5-4 9-24·3 8-t8-1 
Friday'aa.... Chicago at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Waahington at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m 

t3. Nebraska (24·8) did not play. Next: VB. Oklahoma, Friday In the Big Eight Conference tournament. 
14. 
Oklahoma State (21-6) did not play. Next: VB. Kansas State, Friday In the Big Eight Conference tournament. 

15. 
East Tennes&89 Slate (26-4) did not play. 

16. 
LSU (20·8) did not play. Next: vs. Auburn, 



Friday In the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
17. UCLA (2t·8) did not play. Next: va. Washington State, Thuraday. 
t8. Miaalaalppl State (20·7) did not play. Next: va. Mississippi-Tennessee winner, Friday In the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
19. 
Princeton (23-2) did not play. Next: vs. Loyola Mary mount, Sunday. 

20. 
St. John's (20·7) did not play. Next: vs. Providence, Friday In the Big Eaat Conference tournament. 

21. 
Seton Hall (t9·8) did not play. Next: vs. Plnaburgh, Friday In the Big East Conference tournament. 

22. 
Southern Mississippi (2t·6) did not play. Next: VB. louisville, Thursday In the Metro Athletic Conference tournament. 

23. 
Texas (20-7) did not play. Next: vs. Baylor, Friday In the Southwest Conference tournament. 

24. 
Alabama (t8·9) did not play. Next: vs. Florida, Friday In the Southeastern Conference tournament. 

25. 
DePaul (19-8) beat Miami, Fla 75-58. Next: ve. Non Dame, s.udoly. 



thursday, March 7, 1991 The Observer page 15 

Holmes coming out of retirement to box again 

NEW YOHK (AP)-It's not the Orlando, Fla. list of guys and I picked him." Association and World Boxing worth of the pact. money, it's the title that's "I see George Foreman Holmes said the main reason Council) were beaten by Holmes There will be 2,800 seats for driving Larry Holmes out of knocking Holyfield out and if he chose Anderson was that in title defenses. They are Carl the live fight, with another retirement at the age of 41. Tyson comes along, Foreman Foreman fought him in the "The Truth" Williams, Tim 1,500 set aside in the Diplomat 
"The main reason for my will knock him out, too," fourth fight of his comeback in Witherspoon and Renaldo for a closed-circuit telecast. comeback is to get back what I Holmes said from his office at 1987. Foreman scored a fourth­Snipes. Tickets will be scaled from $25 lost," the former heavyweight Easton, Pa. round knockout, which was one Those were million-dollar to $250. champion said Wednesday. "I think I can do it (re-estab­of the 32-year-old Anderson's fights for Holmes, whose Konapelsky said air time has "Money is not the reason." lish himselO in a short period of nine knockout losses. Anderson biggest purse was $8 million for been purchased by two small 
That's what 42-year-old time and go for the big one by is 25-13-0 with 13 knockouts. his 13th-round victory over cable companies, but that time Georgn Foreman said when he the end of the year," said Holmes, who first retired after Gerry Cooney in defense of the might be sold back because of came out of retirement in 1987. Holmes, who last fought Jan. failing to regain the WBC title June 11, 1982. interest shown by other TV The heavyweight champion of 22, 1988, when he was knocked International Boxing Federation "It's embarrassing," Holmes companies. 1973-7 4 will cap his comeback out in the fourth round by Mike title on a controversial decision said of what he will be paid to Holmes plans to leave for from a 1 0-year layoff when he Tyson in a bid to win the undis­to Michael Spinks on April 19, fight Anderson. "What I'm get­Florida soon. challenges Evander Holyfield puted heavyweight title. 1986, said he has contemplated ting, everybody will say, 'this "My wife (Diane) said if if I'm for the undisputed heavyweight "I could have beaten Mike a second comeback for some man is crazy.' " going to come back I have go title on April 19 at Atlantic City, Tyson if Don King gave me time. His record is 48-3, with 34 The fight will be promoted by away to train because there are N.J., for a guarantee of $12 more time," said Holmes. "He knockouts. L.B.A. Associates of Newport too many other things on my million.. gave me two months." "I decided to come back be­Beach, Calif. mind," said Holmes, who has 
Twelve days earlier at That fight ended a 21-month cause there aren't any good Paul Konapelsky, the chief extensive business holdings in Hollywood, Fla., llolmes, retirement for Holmes, who fighters out there," he said. executive officer of L.B.A., said the Easton area. heavyweight champion for immediately retired again. "Some of the guys who are from his office that Holmes Holmes expects criticism over s1wen years (1978-85). will be­Asked how Anderson came to ranked I've beaten already." signed "a four-fight comeback his comeback. gin a seeond comeback that he be selected as his second-come­Three fighters currently contractual commitment with "I used to let things really bog hop11s will lead to a fight with back opponent for the 10-round ranked in the top 10 by at least an option. We worked on this me down -negative press and Foreman. Holmes' opponent bout at the Hotel Diplomat, one the three major governing for about 10 months." He de­things like that," he said. "Now will be Tim "Doe" Anderson of Holmes said, "They gave me a bodies (IBF. World Boxing clined to reveal the financial I don't give a damn. 
Late goal helps Devils tie Sabres 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -22. For the season, the Sabres dominated the Edmonton Oilers Brendan Shanahan's goal with are 11-11-11 at home-and 5-1 on Wednesday night. nine seconds left in regulation overall, they're tops in the NHL Dave Gagner extended his time Wednesday night gave the with 17 ties, the most since point-scoring streak to 12 New Jersey Devils a 3-3 tie with overtime was restored in 1983. games with three assists for the Buffalo, extending the Sabres' The Devils got their first point North Stars, who have lost just franchise-record home winless for new coach Tom McVie, who once in their last eight games streak to 10 games. took over from John Cunniff on (3-1-4). Minnesota stretched its 
With goalie Chris Terreri re­Monday. They lost 4-3 to the lead over Toronto in the race moved for an extra skater, New York Islanders in McVie's for the final Norris Division Shanahan knocked in a rB­debut on Tuesday. playoff berth to 11 points with bound from just outside the Rookie Ken Sutton, playing in 12 games remaining. crease for his 25th of the sea­his second NHL game, scored Minnesota goalie Jon Casey son to give the Devils the tie. twice for Buffalo. New Jersey made 23 saves to hand the 
Alexander Mogilny, whose got goals from Shanahan, Patrik Oilers their seventh loss in their goal early in the third period Sundstrom and Viacheslav last 12 games (3-7 -2). put the Sabres ahead 3-2, Fetisov. Bellows, now in his ninth sea­nearly won the game for Mogilny was unchecked in son; is the franchise's third­Buffalo late in the overtime. His front of the Devils' net when he leading all-time scorer with 633 wrist shot from the right faceoff steered home a passout by points. Three players -Bill dot beat Terreri cleanly but hit Pierre Turgeon to snap a 2-2 tie Goldsworthy, Dino Ciccarelli the far post and stayed out. at 2:39 of the final period. and current North Star Neal Mogilny also got the Sabres a Broten -had six 60-point sea­power play with 24 seconds left North Stars 5, Oilers 1 sons. Bellows' 61 points this when he was hauled down by BLOOMINGTON, Minn. season are second to Gagner's • Eric Weinrich, but Buffalo was Brian Bellows had a goal and 71 but well behind his career­unable to capitalize. an assist to become the first best 99 points of a year ago. 
Buffalo is 0-5-5 at at player in North Stars history to Memorial Auditorium since a 6-score at least 60 points in seven Gagner has seven goals and 4 victory over Boston on Jan. different seasons as Minnesota 19 assists in his last 12 games. 

$$$ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
• 
Deferred Payments: You'll have all summer to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


.-:l. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from the Universit 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

With the lineup questionable, the Irish will need top perfor­mances all around to come back from break victorious. Having played with injuries all year, and boasting strong wins so far to date, the Irish will simply chalk this up as another challenge to tackle, and stand to reap tremendous gains if they are successful. 
Louderback said, "The turn­ing point of the season will be getting everyone healthy. We haven't had our full lineup yet in a match this year. Our kids have had to play out of position and have done a great job." 
Freshman standout Terri Vitale said, "It's better to play against tougher competition. It brings out the best. We have nothing to lose and everything to gain." 
These next four matches will show how well these young Irish have developed and how much they have gained in their quest for a first-ever NCAA tournament birth. 


The Observer/David Lee 

The Irish have battled injuries all year, but still could make the NCAAs. 
-

page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1991 
Poll: college presidents should have more control 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sports Harris said his organization athletics, as every department group, clearly opt for the status than to give the student-athletes fans and educators believe col­. polled a cross-section of the on a college campus, should be quo," Harris said. a decent and sound education; lege presidents should be given adult population, including col­under the control of the As for the faculty, he said, and TV money is far too tighter control over intercolle­lege sports fans. president. The athletic de­"They give themselves low dominant a factor." giate sports, but coaches are Also surveyed, he said, were partment should be no different grades by 79-15 percent on He said female athletes and against it, pollster Lou Harris 75 Division I college presidents, from any other department in their helping control excesses in sports administrators all con­said Wednesday. 7 5 Division I athletic directors, the university." athletic programs. And they feel demned what they believe is sex 
In a report to the Knight 76 coaches of men's basketball Marchiony declined comment very guilty about it." discrimination. Commission, which is studying and football, 75 faculty mem­on the reported negative rating He said faculty athletic repre­"Mark it well, if reform does possible reforms in college ath­bers and samples of faculty of the NCAA, saying he wanted sentatives were rated nega­not deal with women's intercol­letics, Harris said most groups athletic representatives and to study the poll first. tively, 77-11 percent, by their legiate athletics, those claiming it surveyed rated the NCAA other groups. Only the athletic directors and faculty colleagues on how they to be paragons of reform will be negatively on controlling ex­"The NCAA is rated negatively the coaches who work for them handled excesses in athletics. courting real trouble," said cesses. on controlling the excesses of rated athletic directors as College trustees "seem primed Harris. 
"It seems evident that the college athletics by relatively effective in controlling excesses to offer strong support for He said all groups except most decisive step the NCAA close majorities of every single in college sports, Harris said. presidential efforts to take coaches and booster club lead­could take to turn around con­group surveyed, except three: He said 81 percent of the presi­charge" but "do not know all ers favored bringing all athletic fidence in it would be to give athletic directors, coaches and dents rated them negatively. the facts as they should," Harris funds, whatever the source, un­the college presidents firm con­faculty athletic Nevertheless, he said, the said. der university control. trol of intercollegiate sports," representatives," Harris said. athletic directors more often Summing up findings as to Harris said. He said majorities of every than not endorsed presidential what people think is wrong with "There is real agreement that 
The Knight Commission will campus group except for assumption of control and other college athletic programs, presidents must take a much make its report March 19. The coaches favored presidential reforms and "in my judgment, Harris said they are "that the firmer hand in controlling in­commission was created by the control of athletics. He did not can be a key element in making academic program is not being tercollegiate athletics," Harris Knight Foundation, an inde­give figures in his prepared re­reform a reality, if they are given a proper priority over the said. pendent private body that sup­marks. made fully accountable to the athletic program; big-time ath­ports causes in communities Jim Marchiony, spokesman presidents." letics are designed to get fa­"My view is that reform is where there are Knight-Ridder for the NCAA, said, "I think that "By any measure, the vorable publicity for the school possible and even probable," he newspapers. the control of intercollegiate coaches, more than any other and to please the alumni rather said. 
Pistons' slump continues as Tucker sinks game-winner 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­Trent Tucker made a 3-pointer at the buzzer as the New York Knicks beat Detroit 102-99 Wednesday night and sent the Pistons to their sixth loss in seven games. 
Detroit tied the game at 99 on Joe Dumars' 3-pointer with 2.5 seconds left. After New York called timeout, Tucker made an off-balance shot from well behind the 3-point line to give their Knicks their sixth victory in seven games. Tucker's 3­pointer at the buzzer two weeks ago beat Charlotte. 
Charles Oakley added 21 points and 13 rebounds for the Knicks and Maurice Cheeks had 13 points. Tucker. finished with eight points. 
James Edwards scored a sea­son-high 27 points for Detroit, which feel six game behind Chicago in the Central Division. Dumars added 26 points and Mark Aguirre scored 20. 
New York took control in the third quarter, when Oakley scored the final 10 points in a 14-4 run. That gave the Knicks their first lead at 66-65 with 6:04left. 
Celtics 126, Heat 117 
BOSTON-Larry Bird made four 3-pointers in the last eight minutes of the third quarter as the Boston Celtics spoiled Miami's bid for a franchise­record winning streak and beat the Heat 126-117 Wednesday night. 

Miami had won three straight for the second time in its three­year history. But Boston im­proved its record over the Heat to 10-0. 
Bird, who made 7 of 10 from 3-point range in a 126-101 vic­tory over Indiana Monday night, made 5 of 8 against Miami. He started shooting 3-pointers after the Heat cut a 70-55 halftime deficit to 75-71. 
Magic 89, Clippers 86 
ORLANDO, Fla.-Scott Skiles scored 8 of his 17 points in the final five minutes to key a 16-5 stretch run Wednesday night that carried the Orlando Magic to an 89-86 victory over the road-weary Los Angeles Clippers. 
Ron Harper had 23 points for Los Angeles, but his 3-point shot bounced off the rim with one second left. 
The strong finish enabled the Magic to overcome an 81-73 deficit and stop a three-game losing streak. The Clippers, playing away from home for the fourth time in five nights, have lost three straight since ending February with two consecutive victories at home. 
Greg Kite began Orlando's comeback with a pair of free throws with 5:14 left. Skiles scored six of the Magic's next eight points and then threaded a perfect pass to Dennis Scott, whose layup finished a fast break and made it 85-85 with 
1:28 to go. 
Jazz 1 04, Bullets 93 
LANDOVER, Md.-Bernard King scored 50 points -the eighth 50-point game of his career -but it was not enough Wednesday night as the Utah Jazz beat the Washington Bullets 104-93. 
King was 18-for-31 from the field and 14-of-16 from the free-throw line. It was his sec­ond 50-point game of the sea­son; he scored 52 points on Dec. 29 against Denver. 
Malone scored seven points as the Jazz increased the lead to 72-54 . 

.. 
-

S~B Music had planned to run a Musician Register. (We invited musicians to sign up in an Observer last week but had NO takers) 
If you are interested in forming a ' band or need a band member, turn in: 
you name + phone number your instrument 
to the SUB Music Mailbox 2nd Floor LaFortune 
by noon on Thursday March 21. The Register will run on Tuesday March 26. 

--------------~ -­
I 
I 
I
Thursday, March 7, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Justice ready to begin second year with Atlanta 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (API -Wbat a difference a year makes. especially in the storybook tale of the Atlanta Braves' Dave Justiee. 
The National L1mgue rookie of the year arrived at spring training with a starting job in tlw outfield and a healthy $2%,500 contract. 
"Everything is di ffe rent," .lustke said. "Now people know who you are. People want your autographs. I never had that before.. It's .~ nice feeling being rncogntzed. 
lie hit .2S2 with 28 home runs and 7S HBis in 121 games last year, even though he missed the first six weeks with a fractured cheekbone. 
"Last year I came into spring training looking for an oppor­tunity to make the team," Justice said. "Then I got hit in tlw face and that opportunity was gone." 
Afll~r recovering, Justice re­ported to the Braves' Triple A team in Richmond and hit .356 in 12 games before he was re­called by Atlanta on May 16. 
"I didn't know what to ex­pect," he said. "I just wanted to be part of the team, improve and get my feet wet. 
"I guess I soaked them." 
It didn't happen suddenly, however. Justice, a right-fielder, played first base and after 68 games was hitting only .243 with eight homers and 28 RBis. 
The Braves then traded Dale Murphy to the Philadelphia Phillies on Aug. 4. Justice was moved to right field, and he went on a tear. 
He had 10 homers and 20 RBis in 12 games from Aug. 7­20 and was named NL player of the month. He finished by hit­ting .344 in September with 9 home runs and 28 RBI. 
"I showed the ability to hit consistently on a major league level," said Justice. "I credit that to lots of hard work. I was always the first guy out on the field taking extra batting prac­tice, and it paid off." 

AP Photo Bo Jackson, who is on crutches after suffering an injury in the AFC Playoffs, may miss opening day for the Kansas City Royals. 
j 1'r (~~ ~~ 
iiiiiiiiii s~iiiiiiiiiiii 
Vic's is now accepting any coupons from Tomatoes 
or Subway. 
Also-on Fridays if you buy a J4" or J8" sub you can get a second one at J/2 pric 
'Neither offer is good with any other offer 
FQ.(c. CUJvtQ( 
Z71,_~fl3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH (BUSINESS 31-ROSELAND) 

asseeeee a a 
HAINES CITY, Fla. (AP) -Bo is banged up and might not play. So what else is new? 
Bo Jackson, whose football season ended on the sidelines, may start the baseball season in the same place. Still limping and on crutches, he left open the po~;>sibility Wednesday that his hip injury will not heal by opening day. 
"It's really hard to tell," Jackson said. "I have to stay off it as much as possible." 
Jackson missed six weeks for the Kansas City Royals last season because of a shoulder injury, yet still led the team with 28 home runs. Now two months after being hurt in an NFL playoff game, he's impatient to get back into the swing. 
"This is probably the most frustrating injury I've ever had," Jackson said. "I can't even get out on the field to run. I can't swing a bat. 
"I need help at the supermar­ket. Saberhagen was my caddy yesterday. The guys have been picking on me a lot. They throw sweaty T-shirts and socks at me, hitting me in the back of the head. They pick up my crutches and throw them down. I've wanted to throw them down since the first day I got them." 
For the man who does every­thing in the TV commercials, being hobbled means being humbled. He's not even talking much about it; he said 
Football players cleared for hoops 
By MARK McGRATH varsity football players will be Sports Writer allowed to participate in this year's Bookstore Basketball The Notre Dame football staff Tournament. 
has announced that returning The staff had originally de-

Happy 21st~
;,irthday; 
,, ~liDnc1ln tt 
<9 Love, Pop,~, Mom, Butch <e Mike, Rich,~' 
• Lissa and 
cy ''Sue "? 


Wednesday's press session was the only one he plans at spring training. 
Jackson is confined to daily four-hour workouts at the Royals camp, trying to fix the soft tissue damage in his left hip. He spends an hour exercis­ing in the water, then rides a stationary bike and trains with weights. 
Jackson dismissed the need for surgery. He will return to Kansas City in two weeks for further examinations, and should know by then whether he can play in the Royals opener April 8. 
"From the look of things right now, I would say I would be ready," Jackson said. "But if the doctors say to stay off it, that's what I have to do." 
Remember, too, that Jackson tends to be optimistic. When he hobbled off the field after being hurt late in the Los Angeles Raiders' playoff victory over Cincinnati, he predicted he would play the following week against Buffalo. Instead, he watched in street clothes. 
Jackson and the Royals real­ize that not playing is one of the perils of being two-sport All­Star. He missed more than a month in the 1988 baseball season with a torn hamstring, was hurt later that year during football, and other nagging problems tend to take their toll. 
"You are going to have in­juries no matter what you. You 
-
just have to accept the cireum­stances," he said. "It comes with the territory. Those are the facts." 
Jackson did not commit to continuing his All-Pro football career next season -"we'll have to wait and sec," he said, his common response to such questions 
Nor do the Royals want to force him to make a decision. At least, not yet. 
"I think a situation such as this is perhaps less than ideal as far as football vs. baseball," Royals general manager Ilerk Robinson said. "It's my feeling that in time he'll gravitate to­ward one or the other. I think we're near the end of that road. 
"He's coming up on free agency and his football contract is up. I'm not sure any team would want to sign him to a long-term contract while he's playing both sports because of the risk factor." 
Certainly Jackson, 28, could last longer in baseball, and would therefore stand to make more money. But he is attracted to the sheer power and force of football, and also driven by the challenge of those who wonder how long he can keep it up. 
Privately, the Royals think Jackson will choose baseball, if he does choose one. But after four full seasons for the Royals and four half-seasons with the 

cided that the returning players would not be permitted to play at all beeause of the new NCAA rule limiting the time for spring practice. The staff believed that it would be most beneficial to the team to not miss any prac­­tices because spring is when the team for next year is really formed. 
"I just can't wait to play (Bookstore)," said Demetrius DuBose, a linebacker for the Irish football team as well as an All-Tournament Second Team selection last year. 
The returning players have now been given permission to participate in the tournament. However, if a conflict arises between football and a Book­store game, the football prac­tice takes priority and the play­ers will have to miss their Bookstore game. 

-------------------~~ 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS

Irish softball begins season 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

For the Notre Dame softball team, spring break means time to play as many as 15 games and find out how much the squad has improved since last year. 
The team opens its 1991 sea­son with a demanding spring break schedule which includes a doubleheader against Miami University, a tournament in Houston, and a tournament at Indiana State. In Houston, the team will face tough competi­tion from Iowa State, North Carolina, and Temple. At Indiana State, they will face Bowling Green, and Eastern Illinois as well as the host Sycamores. 
With an entire starting squad returning, Irish coach Brian Boulac is looking forward to the first games of the season. 
"It should be a good experi­ence for us. The number of games will test our endurance, but it will give a lot of players an opportunity to play," said Boulac. 
The most important test of the break will be the season­opening games with Miami of Ohio. The games will be an indication of whether the Irish squad can emerge as a mid­western power. The Redskins are expected to be a threat in the Mid-American Conference with senior outfielder Monique Abbitt (.358) and MAC Freshman of the Year, Tammy Yaxtheimer (.308) leading the way. 
For the Irish, several under­classmen will be in contention for starting spots. Freshman Carrie Miller will see time on the mound and in the outfield. Miller posted a 0.50 ERA as a senior at St. Francis High School in Mountain View, Cal. Freshman Christy Connoyer will make appearances at short and second as a strong backup and will help out with her bat. Sophomore Lisa Miller may get opportunity to perform in the outfield. 
The team is ready to get the season underway and to see how well they will do against tougher competition. Last year, the team ended the season with a 31-15-1 overall record and a Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championship. 
Key games will be against solid squads from Bowling Green, Ball State, and DePaul. The Irish are hoping to defeat the Blue Demons for the first time ever this year. Also, the team could face three teams ranked nationally in the top 20 at a tournament in Birmingham. 
Defensively, the Irish are ex­tremely solid. The pitching staff could be one of the best in the midwest with several strong pitchers in the rotation. Returning for the Irish are ju­nior Missy Linn who finished last year with a 1.42 ERA and sophomore Staci Alford with a 
1.32 ERA. Carrie Miller will also be a key member of the starting rotation. 

Behind the plate will be junior Amy Folsom, an outstanding catcher. 1\vo freshmen, Melissa .. Cook and Kim Meyer are being groomed for the backup job. 
The middle infield is very strong with third year starters Ruth Kmak at shortstop and Laurie Sommerlad at second base. The two work well to­gether and make a strong tan­dem up the middle. 
The corners are more experi­enced this year with sophomore Debbie Boulac (third base) and senior Kathy Vernetti (first base). Both have improved tremendously after a year of experience at their respective positions. 
The outfield will be senior Megan Fay in right and sopho­more Ronnie Alvarez in left. Rachel Crossen is a question mark in center after knee surgery last year. Lisa Miller and other underclassmen may also see time in the outfield. 
Offensively, the team wants to build on last year. Leading the Irish will be sophomore Sheri Quinn as designated hitter. Quinn finished last year with a .328 average and 4 homers. Fay will also be a productive offensive player with her solid power hitting. The weak hitting Irish will look to manufacture runs and create opportunities. 
Boulac's expectations from the season are simple. 
"I hope to win the MCC again and to finish the year with a winning season," said Boulac. 
Women to compete in tournament 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's golf team will be breaking out in smiles, as they get -to leave the near freezing temperatures of
-
South Bend and travel to Tampa, Fla. to compete in the Snowbird Invitational next week. 
The field includes tournament host Northern Illinois, Charleston Southern, College of Charleston, Iowa State, Kansas State, Southern Illinois, Tulane, Air Force, Virginia Commonwealth, and Wichita State. 
"Northern Illinois should be tough to beat. We haven't really heard much about the other teams, although I know Iowa 
Streak 

continued from page 20 
"We're definitely concerned, as always, about our pitching," said Murphy. "It's always tough early in the season. It's some­thing we're really focusing on now." 
The Irish bats came alive last weekend, after a slugiish per­formance in the season opener in the Phoenix Thunderbirds Classic. Last week, sophomore 
-right fielder Eric Danapilis went 13-for-22, raising his av­erage to .447. Cory Mee is now hitting .364 and designated hit­ter Adam Maisano (.333, 2 HR, 10 RBI) has had eight hits, four for extra bases. "The players were hungry last week," said Murphy. "I hope they don't get complacent now. We're concentrating on two things-communication and control. We're a fairly explosive team, but we're off and on. We can create a lot of runs in a hurry, but we also have to steal runs, executing with every play. 
State and Southern Illinois are good teams," said Irish senior captain Roberta Bryer. 
The Irish have been practic­ing in Loftus all winter which only allows them to work on iron shots. Teams such as Tulane and Virginia Commonwealth may have a de­cided advantage because they have already begun playing outside. 
Says Irish senior Pandora Fecko, "I think our short game will be the most off. Those are the tough shots. With that you need to develop your touch around the greens again." 
The Irish will start Bryer, Fecko, freshman Chrissy Klein, sophomores Cappy Mack and Kathleen Phares, and junior Allison Wojnas. The best four individual scores will count as the team total. 

"Chrissy Klein played off and on in the fall, but she's been hitting the ball this winter and I expect a good tournament from her, " observed Bryer. 
Both Bryer and' Fecko feel that the team needs to shoo-t under 320 to have a shot at winning with at least three in­dividual scores in the 70s. 
"We don't know much about the course. It's a newer course with not many trees and prob­ably longer than most," said Bryer. 
"The tournament is at the end of the week. As long as we have a few days to get our games in shape, we should do okay," said Bryer. 
unttnlllill_ again 
......, Jose Canseco has another headache. v$;·fu~rli:~~ superstar already faces several legal
11: a pending divorce. Now he and his wife face ci:lliltract suit filed by the developer for alleged -__ _ on the couple's $1.3 million home. · ·· County Superior Court on Feb. ~VellOP!tneJit Co. of San Ramon, says the company for amenities that spa, a $29,200 cabana and a system. v ..-v..,... contract-pays him $23.5 
uc1cont~r to pay the $29,475.99 balance, »ti·nrl'""" Robert J. Kahn. A mechanic's lien was 
.Cuwhov!l wide receiver Drew Pearson the Dallas Texans of the Arena 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs will be held April 11th. There will be 3 and 6 mile runs. Students and staff should start training now. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club: weather permitting, practices will be held from Monday, March 4 through Thursday, March 7 at 2:30 p.m.at the Boathouse. Official practices begin March 18 also at 2:30p.m. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 

•Censored 
Bookstore Basketball teams have until Thursday, March 7 at 5 p.m. to submit a new, uncensorable name to the SUB secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. A copy of the list will be posted outside the SUB office until Thursday. 

•Men's 
Volleyball: The Irish play three home matches this week: Wednesday vs. Tri-State University and Friday vs. Cincinnati. All matches start at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC pit, but most importantly, they are all free. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes is going out for pizza at Bruno's tonight at 6 p.m. instead of having a Bible Study. Meet in frontof Dillon Hall. If you're interested in FCA but have never been to a meeting, call Cathy x4088 or Mark x1606. 


WSND£mss.9 

Taking applications for 1991-92 Executive staff 
-Traffic & Continuity -Chief Announcer -Business Manager 
-News Director -Nocturne Director -Chief Engineer -Program Director 
Have resume of relevant experience turned in by March 20 to Student Activities 
Any questions call: Cathy Warrick 283-1321 


~----------------------------~---------------------------~--------------~---------------------­
-·---...lr"\ _.......... 
Thursday, March 7, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday ACROSS 29 Threesome 52 Semi, for one 30 Helm position 55 End of the quip
1 Campanology
7:30 p.m. Discussiontralk: "Peacemaking: Peace as the item 31 -ha-Shanah 59 Bishopric Fruit of Justice," Kathleen Weigert and Father Thomas Mc­
5 Monsters 32 Where good 60 Islam's Bible Dermott. The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on eggs often meet
10 First of a Latin 61 Bard's river 
War and Peace. Dooley Hoom, LaFortune. trio 35 Quip: Part Ill 
62 Double curve 13 Writer Kingsley 40 G-man, e.g. 
63 Exhausted
4:20 p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Thermodynamics of Sur­
41 Cinders of 

64 Scarcely 
face Morphology," Prof. Ellen Williams, Department of 
14 Take to a comics enough
Physics, University of Maryland. Hoom 118 Nieuwland soapbox 
42 Birdsong of the 

Science I Jail. 15 Caesar's 504 N.BA DOWN
16 Start of a quip 43 Waited 20 Quip: Part II 44 Powerful 1 Rum cake 
LECTURES 
21 Motorcar 46 Earnest 2 Arabian bigwig manufacturer 
49 Whom to put a Coins in 
Friday 
22Watchful the blame on Calabria 23 Seine ails 50 Averse 4 0-day craft
8 p.m. Leeture: "The Kingdom of God and Church," 
24 Alludes 51 Bring home the 5 Loads 
George Carey, Archbishop-Elect, Canterbury. Library Au­
26 Roves bacon &Alums
ditorium. 
7 Sol's output a Handy,abbr. MENU ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Red or Black 10Confused 

~::+::~+:::-! 11 Certain runner 12 Manifest 17 Orifice 29 Trample 45AII: Comb. form 52 Talk insanely 
Notre Dame 18 Blanket weaver 32 Noggin 46 Building wing 53 Operatic prince 47 Hubbub 54 Heredity carrier
..:...+=+:~~~~~ 19MainandWall: 33 Related Abbr. 46 Personal 56 Gives a
Grilled Pork Chops 
34 Fit snugly pledges thumbs-up sign

Chili Crispitos .::.+:~+::::-1 23 "-aKick Out 
of You" 36 Stature 49 Naval historian 57 Dandy
Pasta Bar 

37 Word with 51 To be, in Toulon 58 Aries24 In single file 
shoppe~~=::+::+=.fi!II!I!I!IP~ r.-;:-+=RH~::-1 25 Entree, for one 
38 Coaster 

~~+::::-! 26 Rabble 
Answers to any three clues in this 39 Dust particle 
27 Medicinal plant puzzle are available by touch-tone 
43 Uses the tub 

28"The-," phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Shue play 44 Progenitor minute). 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
At{ OR0\1-lfo.R'f Cl-\t..HA\-1 Cfo.N 
RV~ Ollt.R ~ M\t£5 AI'\ 1-\0'JR . /!. 1-\l)t-\A.N C/>.1-1 \-\/>.lUll~ DO A r--..~-.~ Q\.Jf>.RTt.R Of '11\I>.T. Wl-lf\T A. JO\(£ f 
"Hey, look ... you knew when you married me that I was a non-working breed." 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
SAAAt Mi Ffi.IHJO WAS RI&!HT ABouT '(Ot). Y()l.l ARE AU.. L£C.S. 



~-------­
-----~---~-------------~­
page 20 Thursday, March 7, 1991 
Sports 
Baseball team will attempt to extend winning streak 

By SCOTI BRUTOCAO and compete in the Coca-Cola work cut out for you," said Assistant Sports Editor Classic, a tournament that puts Murphy. "Washington will be 
the Irish against Auburn, South gunning for us, and Air Force 
Fresh off a five-game sweep Alabama and 12th-ranked and Northwestern thrive on and a jump in the national Michigan. beating Notre Dame as a re­rankings, the Notre Dame Notre Dame will play host cruiting tool." baseball team will spread its school South Alabama Saturday Notre Dame has never played wings during spring break and at 5:30 p.m. EST, and then South Alabama. It is 0-3 versus play a host of challenging op­either the championship or Auburn and 18-46 against ponents. consolation game Sunday. Michigan. 
The Irish raised their record On Monday, the Irish travel to "We're just going to take to 7-2 last weekend in Texas New Orleans to take on Tulane, these next few weeks one day with a win over fifth-ranked and Tuesday they will visit at a time," said Murphy. "When Texas, two victories over St. Baton Rouge, La., to play third­you want to be a good team, Mary's (San Antonio) and an­ranked Louisiana State. Both you don't throw away a day of other pair of wins over Trinity games will be broadcast at 8 practice, or a day of mental (San Antonio). p.m. EST on Harvest 103.1 FM preparation." 
As a result of the victories, WHME. One characteristic of the the Irish moved up in the rank­Then, on Friday, March 15, team has given Murphy reason ings from 18th to 14th. the Irish will participate in the to be concerned. The pitching 
"We're really flattered with all three-day College Baseball stairs earned run average is a the attention we've been get­Classic in Seattle. On March 15, respectable 3.77, but in 74 in­ting, but we've got to concen­the Irish play Air Force at 4:30 nings it has issued 43 walks. trate on ourselves and what we EST, then Northwestern at 7:30 Staff ace David Sinnes (1-0, do best-hard work, attention EST. The following day, Notre 2.40) has given up 13 hits and 
to detail, and being fundamen­Dame will play Washington at 12 walks in 15 innings, and tally sound," said Irish coach 10:30 p.m. EST. Then on March sophomore Alan Walania (2-1, Pat Murphy. "We're not funda­17, the consolation game will be 4.11) has surrendered 19 hits mentally sound yet, but we will at 4:30 p.m. EST and the and five walks in 15 1/3 in­get there." championship at 7:30p.m. EST. nings. Sophomore reliever The Irish had better get sound WHME will broadcast those Chris Michalak {1-0, 5.91) has 
in a hurry, as the coming weeks games as well. given up 10 hits and seven hold intense challenges. On "With South Alabama, walks in 10 2/3 innings. Saturday and Sunday Notre Michigan, Auburn, Tulane and 
see STREAK I page 18

Dame will go to Mobile, Ala., LSU, talk about having your 
Women's tennis squad battling injuries in late drive for bid to NCAAs 
By RICH SZABO cannot afford another regional 
should be back to playing dou­something the team has not Sports Writer loss. bles against Northwestern." been able to do yet, thanks to The team has had a little over After the Northwestern the wonderful climate of South 
Midway through the spring a week to recover from various match, the Irish travel to Bend. season, the Notre Dame injuries. Top singles player California to spend spring Louderback said, "It is not as women's tennis team looks to Tracy Barton, one of several break in San Diego, playing tough going from outdoors to increase its chances for an Irish players nursing injuries, some of the top competition in indoors, but when you've been NCAA tournament berth with a has had to heal a sore shoulder. the country. Over break, the playing indoors and go out, you key regional match and a tough "The shoulder is getting bet­Irish have matches against San have to deal with the sun, wind, spring break road trip to ter," Barton said. "I've been Diego State, Yale, and Texas. and, usually, much louder con­
California. going to the training room, and Said Louderback, "Texas is ditions. We will be able to get a 
The Irish sport a record of 8-we didn't have any matches un­sixth in the country, San Diego couple of days of practice out­3, with all of the losses coming til this one (Northwestern). State is fifteenth, and Yale is side, so we should be okay." at the hands of teams in or re­They are pretty deep, so we'll always one of the top teams out The Irish go into these ceiving votes for the top-25, and have to play well. Christy of the east, so it will be a tough matches will a lot of questions. have yet to field a complete, (Faustmann) will be back for week for us." The team has not been com­
Tracy Barton 
healthy lineup for any match that, so that is a big help." Added Barton, "This year's pletely healthy all year, the this year. It is still doubtful that "So far, it has been hard on us the weekends get long." spring break will not be as lineups have been changed they will do so in the near because of illness," continued Faustmann is back playing, tough as in the past, because often, and people have had to 
future. Barton. "Christy had mono and after a bout with mononucleo­we only have three matches. play out of position. 
Thursday's match at Katie (Clark) hurt her back. I've sis. She played in the last Irish Right now, at the midway point, Overcoming these problems Northwestern will be an impor­been hurt on and off. homestand, but did not play the season· starts to get long, so will be a tremendous boost for tant one for the Irish. The Everything keeps happening to her usual singles position or if we can come out good, then the team, for this trip could Wildcats are ranked third in the us, and it has been tough to any doubles matches. the rest of the season will be make or break the chances of region, the Irish second, but the keep up mentally. People have Irish coach Jay Louderback easier." reaching the NCAAs. Irish have already dropped a had to play up a couple of posi­said, "I don't know how fast The Irish will face the added match to top-rated Indiana and tions, which gets tough, plus Christy will come along, but she obstacle of playing outdoors, see TENNIS/ page 15 

Notre Dame prepares to battle Hofstra in lacrosse 
By MARK McGRATH leader on offense. · Sports Writer "The key to a (Notre Dame) victory will be to control the 
The Notre Dame men's tempo," said Corrigan. "They lacrosse team will begin a (Hofstra) rely on their transition three-game road trip Saturday game. We will have to keef1 our at 2 p.m. when it meets Hofstra composure and control the ball in the second game of the in order to be successful." Citibank Face-Off Classic. The Irish will then travel to 
This will be the season play Radford. Radford opened opener for the Flying its season with a loss to No. 4 Dutchmen, who finished 19th in North Carolina. Notre Dame the USILA Division I poll last won the last year's contest 10­year. Last year was the third 8. year in a row that Hofstra has "We don't know much about finished in the top 20. them," said Corrigan. "They 
"Hofstra is an excellent have good individual players team," said Notre Dame coach which means we will need good Kevin Corrigan. "They just team play in order to win." missed the playoffs last year." The final game of the road 
Hofstra posted a 9-5 record trip will be against Mt. St. last year and finished the sea­Mary's. son with five straight wins. The "They have a good young Flying Dutchmen return 22 let­team," said Corrigan. "They are termen, including five starters, very similar to us in that they from last year's squad. Gary are young. They have ability, Rinaldi, a 1991 All-America but we will be ready to play. I candidate who led Hofstra in think one factor in the game scoring last year with 25 goals will be that we will have seen 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will take on Hofstra and Radford over break.
and 26 assists, will be the better competition." 








