
VOL. XXIII NO. 111 TUESDAY, MARCH 19, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Special to the Observer 
Former Louisiana Congress­woman Corrine (Lindy) Boggs of New Orleans will receive the University of Notre Dame's 1991 Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. 
Boggs is the 27th woman to receive the award, the first be­ing Eliza Starr, a critic of Christian art, in 1885. 
"Exemplary in marriage, motherhood, stewardship and statecraft alike, Lindy Boggs deserves the recognition of the Notre Dame family," said Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy, "and it seems particularly appropriate to cel­ebrate her example during Notre Dame's Year of Women." 
Joining Congress in a special election in March 197 3, Boggs served nine terms as a repre­sentative of Louisiana's 2nd 
Former Congresswoman Boggs chosen to receive Leatare Medal 
District, succeeding her hus­band, House Majority Leader Hale Boggs, who was a passen­ger on a plane that disappeared over Alaska in October 1972. 
Last July, she announced that she would not seek a tenth term. 
Boggs, a Democrat, was the first woman sent to Congress from Louisiana. In 1976, she also became the first woman to chair a major political conven­tion. 
In Congress, she was a mem­ber of the Appropriations Committee and was especially interested in issues of housing, scientific research, and tech­nology development. 
She served on the Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families and chaired its crisis Intervention Task Force. 
For her support of veterans affairs programs, she became the first woman to receive the Congressional Award of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in March 1986. 
In 1989 she chaired the Bi­centenary Commission of the 
U.S. House of representatives, observing the 200th anniver­sary of Congress. 
Boggs holds honorary de­grees from Loyola University in New Orleans, St. Thomas Aquinas College in New York, Trinity College in Washington, D.C., and Tulane University, her alma mater. 
She received the National Housing Conference's Housing Person of the Year Award in 1986 and the first Amerir.an Woman Award from the Women's Research and Educa­tion Institute in 1989. 
Her children are the late Bar­bara Sigmund, who was the mayor of Princeton, N.J., when 
see MEDAL I page 4 
Associate Provost particpates in South African talks 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 
News Writer 
The African National Congress (ANC) took a dramatic new stance in recent meetings with tlw National Advisory Council to U.S. firms, urging increased 
U.S. economic involvement in South Africa. Father Oliver Williams, asso­ciate provost at Notrn Dame, rnprnsented the U.S. in South African meetings held March 1­12 as a mernbnr of the National Advisory Council. The coundl offnrs assistance, guidance and criticism to com­panics with South African op­erations as they work toward the removal of the laws sustaining apartheid and toward blaek social and t~ctmomk development. Williams met with top gov­ernment and church officials, as well as leaders of the ANC. lnkatha, and the black labor movnment. "My role is to tell the U.S. companies that are there (South Afrieal how to be more 

effective in helping the blacks order to put direct pressure on and their struggle," said the white South African gov­Williams. ernment. The sweeping change In the past, the ANC encour­in opinion was caused largely aged the removal of all U.S. by a thirty percent unemploy­companies from South Africa in ment rate and increased needs 
for black housing and educa­tion in South Africa, according to Williams. "They want more U.S. money, technology, and jobs," he added. 
The Comprehensive Anti­Apartheid Act pa,;sed by the 
U.S. Congress currently pro­hibits U.S. involvement in South Africa. Specifically, the Act for­bids the creation of new U.S. businesses or the expansion of old businesses in South Africa. The three remaining pillars of apartheid will probably be "taken ofT the books this June," because President F.W. deKlerk asked the ANC to remove them, according to Williams. These include the Group Areas Act, the Land Act, and the Popula­tion Registration Act. The ANC also hopes to improve education levels in the black community, where 60 percent of blacks in South Africa are functionally illiterate, ar.r.ording to Williams. Five times as much money is spent on a white student as on a black student, he added. "They (ANC) want to talk about the new, democratic South Africa," said Williams. "They hope formal negotiations for a 
see WIILLIAMS I page 4 
Gorbachev, Yeltsin both claim victory in first Soviet referendum 
MOSCOW (APl -Soviet Pres­ident Mikhail Gorbachev and his maverick rival Boris Yeltsin on Monday both emerged from the first rcfenmdum in Soviet history able to claim victory. 
In the nonbinding election lwld Sunday in 11 time zones across the Soviet Union, Gor­bachev won overwhelming sup­port for preserving a renewed federation with the majority of tlw population. 
But partial returns showed Yeltsin winning on a question that has been opposed by Gor­bachr.v: Creating a strong pres­idr.ney for the Hussian federa­tion. and tilling it by direct elec­tion. 
Ynltsin was elected chairman by Russia's legislature in May. Known as the Russian presi­dent, he is in danger of losing that job -hard-line members of Hussia's Congress are plan­ning a no-confidence vote on March 28. Even if Yeltsin lost that vote, he would be strongly favored in a popular election. 
Gorbachev's referendum won by margins of 70 percent to 95 percent in seven of the 15 re­publics: the Ukraine, Byelorus­sia, and in the five republics of Central Asia: Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tadzhikistan, l'urkmenia and Kirgizia. 
There were no final totals for Russia and Azerbaijan on Mon­day. Local counts were running strongly in favor of the union in publics refused to hold the ref­erendum and the majority of their voters appeared to stay away from polls held in Com­munist Party and military bases. Less than a 50 percent turnout renders an election in­valid under Soviet law. 

But officials claimed 500,000 voted in Latvia and 652,000 in Lithuania -with a 97 percent 'yes' vote in Lithuania. The turnouts were less than the re­quired 50 percent, but still higher than expected because both republics voted strongly for independence several weeks ago. 
In Lithuania, the count could be accurate only if there were at least 200,000 'no' votes, said parliamentary spokesman Har­ris Subacius. 
Both republics reported widespread ballot-stuffing on Sunday, because voters' names were not checked against regis­tration rolls. 
There is no tradition in the Soviet Union of politicians pub­licly announcing victory or con­ceding defeat. 
The results reported by elec­tion officials and news media reflected confusion. 
Gorbachev first proposed the referendum in December as a means of pressuring leaders of the 15 Soviet republics into signing a new Union Treaty to preserve central control over politics and the economy. 
-------------------------------~~-----------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The Observer: It's up to you ND/SMC 
As I was relaxing during break this year and thinking about my column, a memory of a trip last March started me thinking about the role of The Observer at Notre Dame and Saint 

Mary's. In St. Martin, the Kelley Tuthill 
government runs an ad campaign that tries to Editor-in-Chief instill a sense of ________ 
responsibility and pride in its citizens. The ads read "St. Martin: Tis our own ting." How does this neat little slogan fit in with The Observer? Well maybe it doesn't. I hope as The Observer becomes a quarter of a century old, it will become for the students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame "our own ting." Many schools do not have a student news­paper, or have one that publishes infre­quently with little to offer the student body. We do have a paper that is fortunate enough to have ample office space, a large and hard­working staff, loyal advertisers and thousands of devoted readers. Over the next year I hope this paper can become our own thing. Something that stu­dents read with interest and respond to with thoughtful columns and letters. Students who are concerned that the paper does not give ample space to a particular issue or event should let us know and discuss future coverage with our editors. An issue of concern for the 1991-92 Editorial Board is the coverage afforded to Saint Mary's in The Observer. We believe that the number of stories on Saint Mary's could be increased. To serve the community better we have created several additional paid positions on our Saint Mary's staff. In the next few weeks there will be several changes made at the Saint Mary's office. It is our hope that the Haggar College Center office will offer more services to our Saint Mary's readers and advertisers. An issue that students have been concerned about is ND/SMC relations. A recent article in the Saint Mary's Courier examines the issue of deteriorating relations between the two schools. We hope The Observer can serve as a forum for debate on this and other topics and we can also help further increased un­derstanding between the two student bodies through increased coverage of Saint Mary's. All of us here at The Observer promise to do our best to put out a paper that offers a wide variety of stories and columns. You can be sure that we are working hard to produce quality work each day. In return, we hope that our readers continue to actively respond to what they read. We would like those students who want to see more coverage of Saint Mary's to get involved. While we have hired new staff members, they cannot cover the college by themselves. We certainly need more photographers, writers and columnists. I have only one year to accomplish the goals that I have set for this paper. There's at least one goal that all our readers can help us with-help us to serve you. Remember, The Observer "tis our own ting." 
Today's Staff: Systems
News 
Gil Gomez 
Bradley Galko Patrick Barth 
Kate Manuel Meredith Me Cullough 
Graphics
Michael Krause Jake Frost 
Accent 
Lab Tech 
Michael Krause Sean Farnan 
Ad Design Photographers
Amy Eckert Eliza Klosterman 
Dannika Simpson Andrew McCloskey 
Joy Mueller Pat Kusak 
Luke Lytell John Studebaker 
Jennifer McCarter Ken Osgood 
Sports Circulation 
Rene Ferran Kathleen O'Conner 
Scoreboard: John O'Brian 
Mark McGrath Alison Cocks 
Production Cheryl Moser 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Fugitive hijacker arrested in Greece 
• ATHENS-A fugitive Arab convicted in the hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship recently was arrested at the home of a Greek who also had been accused of helping the terrorists, police said Monday. Dynamite and a gasoline bomb were found at the house, and police were trying to determine if they had discovered a cell of a local terrorist group working for or with the Palestine Liberation Front, a faction of the PLO. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
NOMINATIONS FOR Student Leadership Awards are due today to 315 LaFortune. Additional forms are available in Student Activities. If you have any questions call 239-7308. 

• 
PAUL REYNOLDS of Career and Placement Services will present "Preparing for and Planning an Effective Job Search" for interested juniors tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. This talk will be repeated Thursday evening. 

• 
YOUNG MEN involved in Chicago gangs will be at Theodore's tonight at 7 p.m. to discuss their lives and living conditions in housing projects. 

• 
THE ND/SMC NAACP will hold officer elections tonight from 7:30-9:30 p.m. in the Foster Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 

• 
THE GULF CRISIS ACTION GROUP is sponsoring two short documentary films tonight at 8 p.m. at the esc. One film deals with press censorship and the other with colonialism and military intervention. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 18, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES 237.66 Million  NYSE INDEX 203.31  ../} 0.77  
S&P COMPOSITE  
372.11  -I}  1.48  

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,925.95 -I} 18.35 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {fr $2.15 to$ 363.70oz. SILVER • 15.2~ to$ 3.943/oz. 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
FORECAST: 
Sunny and warmer today with highs in the upper 50s. Warmer tomorrow, with a 30 percent chance of showers. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H  L  
63  50  
69  53  
54  36  
51  36  
49  36  
70  42  
Denver  64  27  
Detro1t  41  39  
Honolulu  74  6B  
Houston  71  45  
~n~di'llis  ~~  39 45  
L  67  54  
M  63  43  
M1a ach  B6  73  
Moscow  36  18  
New Orleans  70  58  
New York  50  44  
Paris  57  43  
Philadelphia  53  43  
Portland, Ore.  49  41  
Rome  6B  41  
St. Louis  56  43  
San Francisco  61  44  
South Bend  4 1  36  
Tokyo  55  41  
Washington, D.C  57  43  

NATIONAL 
Decency standard for arts challenged 
• 
WASHINGTON-A statute requiring the National Endowment for the Arts to consider "general standards of decency" when awarding federal grants was challenged in a lawsuit filed Monday as an uncon­stitutional restriction on freedom of expression. The decency standard was approved by Congress last fall as a substitute for a previous law that banned NEA grants for works that might be deemed obscene, including depictions of homosexual or sado-masochistic activities, child pornography or individual sex acts. Congress later repealed that ban and voted instead to require the endowment to recoup federal funds from grant recipients whose works are ruled obscene by the courts. 

• 
SENIORS INTERESTED IN A YEAR of volunteer service can discuss their available options with Pat Davis of the Jesuit Volunteers Wednesday at the CSC from 10 


a.m. to 5 p.m. 
• 
THE ADVANCE ENROLLMENT process must be completed with Student Accounts by Friday. Students who fail to enroll by that date will not be eligible for room picks. 

• 
SENIORS CAN MAKE a year of volunteering one of their options following graduation. Silvia Auza, represent­ing N.D. Volunteers for Puerto, will be on campus to an­swer your questions now until Thursday at the CSC from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

• 
A DISCERNMENT GROUP has begun for young women who would like to come together to share, pray and discuss their religious calling. For more information, call The Sisters of the Holy Cross Membership Office, Monday-Friday from 8-4:30 p.m., 284-4466. Ask for either Sister Marilyn Zugish or Sister Patricia Riley. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1903: The U.S. gained naval bases at Guantanomo and Bahia Honda. 

• 
In 1924: U.S. troops were sent to the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa as the city was taken by rebel forces. 

•In 
1936: Floods swept 12 Midwestern states, leaving 134 dead and 200,000 homeless. 

• 
In 1949: The Soviet People's Council signed the constitu­tion of German Democratic Republic. 

• 
n 1979: Twenty tons of hashish was seized in the largest drug bust in U.S. history in New Jersey. 

• 
Ten years ago: In Florida, one technician was killed and two others were injured during tests on the space shuttle Columbia. 


Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
The Observer page 3 
Honor code teaches students professional ethics 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 
Father Edward Malloy, Uni­versity president, hopes the connection between ethics and the honor code is one that will extend beyond the four years students spend at Notre Dame. 
Malloy said, "I think an honor code is desirable at Notre Dame bocause I think we're trying to prepare people for a world in which that kind of attitude (one of honor and honesty) would prnvail. The hardest thing in a profession is to hold each other accountable, that is to bring to publie attention instances of misbehavior." 
"The hardest thing about an honor code at Notre Dame is exactly the same thing. To learn to make that transition in self-concept here and now is to establish what I think are life­time habits of reliability." 
He told the story of a profes­sor at Harvard Medical Sehool who obtained his position by cheating. Malloy said the man had the "perfect pedigree" for the position that he held. 
He said the scientific commu­nity apparently had not set up a system of accountability and that they had "presupposed" much that was not happening. 
Malloy further said, "It also says a lot about the the quality of the environment that nur­tures that kind of an attitude. The kind of competitiveness 
CLUB COLUMN 
MARCH 19, 1991 
Attention all clubs: Registration packets are past due. Penalties are currently being assessed against late clubs. All packets that have not been fully completed and turned into the Club Room must be immediately. Any club that does not have an appointment to review their packet should make one as soon as possible. 
Students for Environmental Action will meet next Sunday, March 24, at 7 pm in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Amy Jenista at 283-1343 for more information. 
The Club Room, 207 LaFortune, is available to campus clubs as a meeting room on a first come, first serve basis. For more information call 283-2086 or stop by during the Club Coordination Council's office hours: Mondays, 9:30-11 :00 am and 1:30-7:00 pm, and Thursdays, 1:30 -8:00pm. 
Club Column entries are to be turned in by 5 pm every Thursday at the Club Room, 207 LaFortune for publication the following Monday. 
In the NeXI~tation'"computer. we've managed to squeeze the most possible computer into the least possible space. \Vc\·c also squeezed the most possible computer into the lea~! possible price. 
One low prit:e includes not onlv the kevboard and monitor. but a full eight ~egahvtes of mcmorv. a built-in 2.RH-me~abytc Aoppy disk drive and Ethcrnct.The NeXTsration is also equippnl 11 ith a lOS-megabyte hard disk.onto wlnich we hal'c taken the libcm· of installing a rather forrnida­ble package of software. including \VritcNow.'.l/at/mnrilttrt.' NeXTmail'­and Digital Webster.'" So all you have to do is plu~ it in and vou'rc ready to go to work. You even get a free trial subscription to NeXTWORLD'"mag· azinc, to keep you up to date. 
And to make our t·ase el'en more compcllin~. we'll send a free copv of the extraordinary spreadsheet pro­gram, Lows l!npro' (a :.'>695 value.:), to e,·ervone who purt:hases and regis· tcrs a NeXTstation or NeXTcuhe t·omputer. or anll~O upgrade.: hoard betc>rc March 31, 1991.• 
We couldn't even guess where \'Oll could make a comparable pur­chase. But we can tell you ex"­
ill'! 
actly where to make this 
one.Check rhe space ~ 
below to find the location ofvourcampusreseller. 
rJII! 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN 

GET TWO BREAKTHROU 
FOR THE PRICE OF ONE. 

Omcc: of Umversny.Compuun" Computin~t Cc:mcr/Math Ruildinl! Phone: 239-7477 IJours; Mon.-Fri., 9:00. S:DO 


Father Edward Malloy 
and the presumption that as long as people were seemingly displaying a sort of brilliance along the way that that was adequate to the challenge." 
He stated this incident is a "scary reminder" that what we begin in college may persist in the future. 
Malloy then talked about what constitutes a profession, how ethics are involved in pro­fessions, and the difficulties in creating an environment where professionals are held account­able for their actions. 
According to Malloy, a pro­fession is an area of work re­quiring specialized education which also has a certification process and a certain set of values, often taking the form of a code. There is a presupposi­tion that professionals will be held accountable to the values and there is a high degree of status since the workers are seen as specialists. 
The problems of enforcing ethics in professions come from a fear of scandal, Malloy said. People often fear the reputation of their profession will be scarred if they report any mis­conduct. 
He also said that human dy­namics may be involved. People are less inclined to intrude without all the evidence when they are close to a case than when they have no personal in­terest in the case. 
The lecture was part of the Professional Ethics Lecture Series which is sponsored by the Provost office, the Univer­sity Academic Code of Honor Committee and the Student Academic Council Committee. 
Senate voices concerns of undergrads 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Concerned with Notre Dame's escalating movement away from the educational interests of the undergraduate, Student Senate passed a resolution calling for the administration to address the issue. 
The resolution responds to growing student concern re­garding the issue, as evidenced through a recent student gov­w:nment referendum. 
The senate expressed its 'growing discontent with the >hortage of faculty, the large class sizes -specifically in the upper levels -and the amount of classes which become 'closed."' 
The resolution, submitted by Lisa Bostwick, district 2 sena­tor, emphasizes that the uni­versity should foster intellectual growth through the interaction of students and faculty. 
These problems result in im­personal relationships between students and professors, the possible delay of students ca­reers, and the inability of fac­ulty to share their knowledge with students. 
The senate "recommends that this issue become a campus­wide priority." Administration and student discussion should address and solve the causes of the problems, including the fi­nancial inability to hire more faculty. 
In other senate business: 
•The senate approved an ad­dition to the bylaws of the stu­dent body constitution that creates a loan fund to be oper­ated by the Club Coordination Council. 
The document, submitted by Club Coordinator Jeff Stark, allows for $3000 of unspent money to be used for short­term, interest-free loans. Clubs can use the funds to start fund­raising programs with guaran­teed revenue. 
Clubs not repaying the loans within the stated period of time will be subject to Joss of loan privileges, late fees, or other restrictions. 
"This would allow us to make 
loans to  a  club," said Stark,  
"rather  than  to  give  them  
money."  

•The senators selected the winners of the Irish Clover Award "for outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community." 
Gina Mahony, the student winner, improved campus secu­rity by organizing Safe Walk. She also chaired the committee that created the Board of Trustees report on cultural di­versity. 
Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of ND security and coordi­nator of the Christmas in April program, received the faculty award. Senators said that Johnson's response to the cam­pus parking problem was im­pressive. 
Johnson, said Student Body President Rob Pasin, "always has student interests in mind." 

Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the INFORMATION DESK LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *Deadline for applications is March 29* 
if,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,Il 
·~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~'~'~'~'~'~'~'~,~~~~~'~'~'~'~';,;,;,;,;~;~;~;);;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;j' 
~  PomPon  !i 
~  ~  
~  ~  
~ ~ ~~~:~ ~  Squad  ~ ~ b~ ~~ ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~~:  INFORMATIONAL MEETING  ~~  
~  ~  
~~:  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20th  ~S  
~  ~  
:'!. ~  at 9:30pm  ~; ~  
~~:  IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM  ~S  
~  ~  
:-!.  OF LaFORTUNE  ~;  
~  ~  
~  ~  
;~: QUESTIONS?  Call  NOEMI  283-1319  ~~  
····-.. ·-·-·-.. ·-......·-.. ·-·-·-.. ·-·-...... ·­ . . . .  ROSELLA 283-4025  ~..  

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
Medal 
continued from page 1 
she died last October; Thomas Hale Boggs, a Washington at­torney; Cokie Roberts, Wash­ington correspondent for Na­tional Public Radio and ABC; and William Robertson Boggs, who died in infancy. 
The Laetare (pronounced Lay-tab-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is an­nounced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. "Laetare," the Latin word for "rejoice," is the first word in the entrance antiphon of the Mass that Sunday, which antic­ipates the celebration of Easter. 
Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor which antedates the 11th century. The medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a The Ou~en Mother, in Berlin to celebrate St. Patrick's day with British Catholic "whose genius has forces, IS framed for a group photo by members of the 1st Battalion of ennobled the arts and sciences, 

the Irish Guards Sunday. 
Williams 
continued from page 1 
new Constitution will be underway by the end of this year," designed by 1992, and implemented by 1993 or 1994, added Williams. 
he added. The ANC hopes to start plan­ning for a post-apartheid South Africa immediately, according to Williams. National Advisory Council is planning to host a meeting with U.S. business rep­resentatives and ANC business leaders in New York sometime in April or May, he added. 
illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity." 
Among the 112 previous re­cipients of the Laetare Medal are Civil War General William Rosecrans, operatic tenor John McCormack, President John F. Kennedy, J\mbassador Clare Boothe Luce, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day, and novelist Walker Percy. 
"They don't want to wait until .-----------------------._ 
1992 to start creating jobs.
They want to start creating jobs now," he said. 
Williams told the ANC that sanctions won't be taken off by the U.S. Congress "until you ask for it." "They responded, 'We under­stand that,"' said Williams. He predicted that the Government would probably ask for sanc­tions to be lifted sometime in June, when the last apartheid laws will be removed from the legislature. Williams said that most U.S. businesses "will probably be very cautious," until political stability is established. "I think there will be some that will probably respond positively," 
A 1 f th 1991
PP Y Or e 
Freshman Orientation Executive Committee 
Application available from the Student Government Secretary 2nd Floor LaFortune Due Friday, March 22,1991 by 4:00 pm Note: We need an artist! 
Kerrigan, feUow at Kellogg Institute, dies 
Anthony Kerrigan, senior guest scholar at the Helen Kel­logg Institute for International Studies, died March 7 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 72 years old. 
During his life, Kerrigan re­ceived international praise for his translations of more than 40 books by Spanish and Latin American writers. One of the first writers in English to notice and understand the work of Jorge Luis Borges, Kerrigan translated "Ficciones," "A Per­sonal Anthology," "Poems," and "Irish Strategies." 
He also translated and helped edit the seven-volume "Selected Works of Miguel de Unamuno." 
Kerrigan's translations also include Pablo Neruda's "Selected Poems," Camilo Jose Cela's "Family of Pascual Duarte," and Jose Ortega y Gasset's "The Revolt of the Masses," which was published by Notre Dame Press and in­troduced by Saul Bellow, a friend of Kerrigan. 
In addition to his translations, Kerrigan also wrote his own poetry, short stories and critical essays. These writings include three collections of poetry, "Lear in the Tropic of Paris," "Espousal in August," and "At the Front Door of the Atlantic." 
Kerrigan's autobiography was published last year, and he was at work on another book of poems at the time of his death. 
Kerrigan received many liter­ary honors, including a 1975 National Book Award, for "The Agony of Christianity," the fifth volume of his Unamuno trans­lation. 
In 1987, he was elected to the American Literary Translators' Association board of directors, and the following year he be­came the first translator to re­ceive a senior fellowship in lit­erature from the National En­dowment for the Arts. 
On tour from New York· The only national touring production. 
CALLIN ON ROCK 'N ROLL, COUNTRY /WESTERN, RHYTHM & BLUES, BROADWAY SHOWSTOPPERS AND EVERY STOP ALONG THE WAY! 
Yearbook Positions Now Available 
Positions for the 1991-1992 Dome Staff are now being accepted. 
Open Positions include: 
Editor-in-Chief, All Section Editors, Photographers and Section Staff Members 
Get involved in the Dome during the Sesquicentennial Year! 
Applications available at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, are due by Friday March 22, 
1991. 
Andrew Lloyd Webber's International Skating Musical Spectacular 
" ... one of the most astonishing spectacles in the annals of the stage" -Time Magazine 
JOYCE ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER NOTRE DAME MARCH 22-23-24 Fri. 8 p.m. -Sat. 2 &8 p.m. -Sun. 1 :30 &7:00 p.m. Tickets: Lower Arena & Floor $30.00 Bleachers $15.00 
Tickets available at the Broadway Theatre League Box Office at the Morris Civic Auditorium Open 10 a.m. to 5p.m. Monday thru Friday 
PHONE 284-9190 
Group & Student Discounts -Bleachers Only 

Master Card & VISA Accepted 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 page 5 
Science has no simple solution to global warming 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
There is no simple answer to the global warming debate, ac­cording to Stephen Schneider, a leading climatologist and envi­ronmental poliey analyst. 
Sehneider, head of the lnter­diseiplinary Climate Systems at the National Center for Atmo­spherie Research, spoke at Notrr. Dame on "The Global Warming Debate: Seienee or Polities." 
Schneider said that sinee there is no eonsensus among scientists, the general publie is oftnn eonfused and does not know whom to believe about global warming. 
Schneider stated that he be­lieves no one doubts the green­house effeet exists. "(The greenhouse effeet) is not a threat. It is wonderful. It makes life possible," he said. 
He said the debate is over whether gases produeed by human activity ereate enough heat to be "seriously disruptive to ecosystems." 
Schneider noted that scien­tists are unable to agree on this issue and that the normal give and take among researchers has confused the public. 
He said that because of the issue's tremendous importance, the media reports all develop­ments. However, because scien­tists "learn by disproving," many theories accepted by the public are later discarded. 
Schneider said people should realize that what appears to be fighting among scientists is ac­tually normal behavior. 
He pointed out that some 
facts are indisputable. He showed how global carbon dioxide levels have consistently increased over the past 150 years. 
Schneider blamed humans saying, "We are sure beyond a doubt it is due to us." 
He also said that this increase in carbon dioxide levels has re­sulted in an increase in energy per square meter of earth. Still, scientists are unsure if this en­ergy increase contributes to global warming. 
Schneider asked, "How do you translate (energy) into X degrees of heat?" 
He pointed out that average global temperature has in­creased half a degree in the past century. He said this fact is not alarming until one realizes that in the past millennium the average global temperature has only increased one degree. 
Schneider said, "The rate of change is very fast relative to nature." 
He said that this trend does not necessarily prove that hu­man activity has accelerated global warming. Calling fore­casts of ecology "arrogant nonsense," Schneider explained that there is no way to posi­tively know. 
However, he continued, "If we wait until we are sure, then it might be too late." Schneider said that he would "call it a coin flip" as to whether the greenhouse effect contributes to global warming. 
Schneider said that "slowing down" human activity which contributes to the greenhouse effect is the key to buying time to study the problem further. 
He applauded the banning of clorofluorocarbons and called for the more efficient use of en­ergy. He said that a 20-25 per­cent reduction in energy use could be achieved at no cost with measures such as an in­crease in fuel mileage in auto­mobiles. 
He also said that a "larger­scale look" is necessary to combat environmental prob­lems. He said that governments need to "negotiate at the plane­tary level" because the issues involved affect all humanity. 
The lecture was part of the annual Charles Edison Lecture Series in science and engineer­ing, which was established and endowed by the Charles Edison fund in honor of the inventor, Thomas Alva Edison. 
Campus Ministry and You 

0MPU5 
PEACE 
The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; light has dawned on them, dwellers in a land as dark as death. 
You have increased their joy and given them great gladness; they rejoice in Your presence as people in the time of harvest. 
For You have shattered the yoke that burdened them, the collar that lay heavy on their shoulders. 
All the boots of trampling soldiers and the garments fouled with blood shall become a burning mass­fuel for fire. 
For unto us a child is born Unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulder and his name shall be called 
Wonderful 
Counsellor 
The Mighty God 
The Everlasting Father 
The Prince of Peace! 
Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom, to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever! 
MINISTRY 
Pf.ACfis my 
9~ -ge ~£J« 
Lenten Penance Services 
Tuesday, March 26, 10:00 pm at Sacred Heart Church Hall Penance Services: Siegfried-Tuesday, March 19, 10:00 pm St. Edwards-Wednesday, March 20, 9:15 pm Sorin-Wednesday, March 20, 10:45 pm Breen-Philips-Thursday, March 21, 7:00pm Pangborn-Sunday, March 24, 10:00 pm Knott-Monday, March 25, 9:00pm Alumni-Monday, March 25, 10:00 pm Keenan-Stanford-Monday, March 25, 10:00 pm 
Opportunities for individual confession follow the services. 


As Lent draws to a close and the season of possibilities is upon us, we pray we may see these words of Isaiah in our lives and in our world. 
A member of the University Community was killed as the war in the Gulf drew to a close. Major Mark A. CC?nnely of Lancaster, Pa., a 1978 NO grad, was killed when his vehicle hit a land mine, as the hostilities had officially ended. We offer our expressions of sorrow to his family and friends, and assure them of our prayerful remembrances. 
page6 The Observer 
Sacred service 
St. Patrick's Day Mass is celebrated yesterday at Sacred Heart Church. 
Teacher testifies she loved husband who was killed by her teenage student/lover 
EXETER, N.H. (AP)-A high school teacher testified at her murder-conspiracy trial Mon­day that she was trying to break off an affair with a stu­dent when the teenager shot her husband to death last year. 
Pamela Smart said she loved her husband, but was having difficulty breaking off her affair with the student, William Flynn. She said Flynn was so distraught at the prospect of not seeing her that he threat­ened to kill himself. 
"He started crying and he said he couldn't live without me. I felt bad. I did not want to hurt his feelings," she said. 
Smart, 23, took the stand as the defense began rebutting two weeks of testimony from prosecution witnesses in Rock­ingham County Superior Court. 
Prosecutors charge that Smart seduced Flynn, then used her emotional control over him to get him and two friends to murder her 24-year-old hus­band, Gregory, because she feared losing everything in a di­vorce. 
The defense says the three "thrill-killers" from Seabrook murdered the young insurance salesman on their own, then framed his widow to avoid life 
SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, MARCH 15 
8:27 a.m. A University employee reported that a vaccum cleaner was missing from the Community Center of the University Village. 
9:20 a.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
2:12 p.m. A case of indecent exposure was reported to have occurred on the eighth floor of the Hesburgh Memorial Library. 
MONDAY, MARCH 18 
1 a.m. A resident of the O'Hara Grace Townhouses fell from her bike after hitting a ditch in the vicinity of the old log chapel. 
10:30 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
prison terms with no chance of parole. 
They agreed to testify for the state in plea bargains carrying minimum prison sentences of 18 to 28 years. 
Smart, behind bars since Au­gust, appeared pale and drawn, but composed during her testi­mony. Her voice broke only when she described returning to her condominium after a school board meeting May 1, opening the front door and seeing her husband on the 
floo~ 
She said she screamed and ran to summon neighbors. Only later did she learn he was dead. 
"Everyone was screaming, 'How come no one's doing any­thing?' ... And a policeman came down and said, 'Because he's dead,"' she said in a low, trembling voice. 
Smart said she thought her husband died from being hit on the head with a candlestick, and didn't know he had been shot until several days later. 
"One day I was driving down the road and I heard it on the radio," she said. "That's how I found out." 
Smart testified that the affair began when Flynn, then 15, was in a videotaping project she ran as media coordinator at Winnacunnet High School in Hampton. When he told her he had a crush on her, she testified, she replied that she liked him but was married and wasn't interested. 
A tearful Flynn testified last week that he didn't want to kill Smart's husband, but did so when she made it clear she would end their affair if he didn't.. 
'!heStudent Unionl3oard and 1hc Cen~r for Social Conccms 1-'Jcsenl 
Dr. Frank Osanka 
Behavioral Consultant 
LectureNideo Presentation 
8:30PM Wednesday March20 127 Nieuwland 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
Nixon visits Soviet Union to check pace of reforms 
MOSCOW (AP) -Former President Nixon arrived in the Soviet Union on Monday to check the pace of Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev's re­forms. 
Nixon plans to meet with politicians and scholars during the two-week private visit as a guest of the Institute of World Economics and International Relations. He also planned to travel to Lithuania at the invi­tation of President Vytautas Landsbergis. 
He then will report back to President Bush, aide Theresa Hollingsworth said. 
Nixon arrived during the vote count from the first Soviet ref­erendum, which dealt with preservation of the union. He told Soviet television that it was "very significant that my trip starts on the day after a refer­endum at which all Soviet peo­ple could express their opinion freely." 
This is Nixon's seventh trip to the Soviet Union. He last visited in July 1986, when he met with Gorbachev for a talk on U.S.­Soviet relations. 
American Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
Summer 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOW 1......_6_83_-1_9_59___. 
* 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

* 
APPROX 21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

* 
GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY Master Mini Warehouses 


~~~~~~......~........~~::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.-......iiiiiiii..~~ 
9 9 2 S h
0p 0m0re Literary Festival Committee Applications 

applications due March 27th 
available at the SUB desk on the second floor of LaFortune ?s Anne *1335 or Rex *1622 

Correction 
The statue pictured on the front page of The Observer March 8 was incorrectly identi­fied as the Virgin Mary. The statue, located in the Grotto, is actually Saint Bernadette. The Observer regrets the error. 
IID CID ~ ~ ~ CID Ifrn CID ~ IfmIPJ Thly ITmillloo~m~~ lli~~mwil®w~ 

Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
The Observer page 7 


AP Photo 
Big welcome 
President ~ush .shakes hand with Air Force Captain Spike Thomas and Captain Enc Dodson looks on Sunday during welcome home ceremonies at Sumter, S.C. Both pilots, of the 33rd Tatical Unit were shot down during the Persian Gulf War. ' 
Bush wants Iraq to pay for "environmental terrorism" 
WASHINGTON (APl -Presi­dent Bush on Monday de­mandBd that Iraq pay war reparations for its "environmental terrorism" and said he wanted to cut arms sah!s to the Middle East. Yet, the administration also an­nounced new steps to under­write sales of military goods. 
Bush. just back from postwar talks with leaders of Britain, f'rance and Canada, compared notes with Secretary of State James Bakor Ill, who returned Sunday from a trip to the Mid­dle East and Moscow. 
Thn president said he wanted to build on a feeling of good will in thn aftnrmath of the war against Iraq to calm the turmoil in Lebanon, reconcile Arab­lsranli diffnrencns and find a solution for the Palestinian problem. 
!In cautioned, "I don't think the American people ought to think that you can wave a wand and solvn all three of these very 
ppy 21st to 
our favorite playground· 
ohn Sacher 
From "The Gang" 
difficult problems at once." 
However, he added, "I think the longer one waits to take any initiatives, the danger is things revert back to a status quo. And I think that will be unacceptable." 
The United States and its al­lies in the Gulf War are holding talks at the United Nations this week on conditions for a per­manent cease-fire. 
"Broadly speaking, people know what is required," Bush said. "I would like to see us re­duce the flow of weapons into the area.... Iraq must pay reparations or pay damages. The more one looks at the envi­ronmental terrorism that they embraced ... the more the world understands that they have got to do something about that." 
He said Iraq is a wealthy na­tion that spent its money on weapons and aggression. "Now we've got to see that they use their resources for helping their own people." 
Congress discusses ways to get allies to pay war debts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An angry Congress is about to de­cide what teeth to put in its threat to countries that haven't fully delivered on pledges to help the United States pay for the Persian Gulf War. 
With tens of billions of dollars at stake, the only question appears to be whether to send the equivalent of a warning let­ter or a burly thumb-breaker to collect the money. 
Congress should settle this week on language in war-fi­nancing legislation lawmakers expect to send to President Bush. The options range from a vague warning of "pay up, or else" to an arms-sale ban against countries that have promised more than they have delivered. 
The effort to get slow-moving allies to pay up hasn't set well with everyone in Congress. 
"What are we going to do" about countries behind in their promised payments, asked the House Appropriations Commit­tee chairman, Rep. Jamie Whit­ten, D-Miss. "Are we going to call Congress in session here and issue an edict and send troops over there?" 
"Is this the way you treat our allies and people who are help­ing you?" asked Rep. Neal Smith, D-Iowa. 
But with the allies still owing $36.6 billion from promised as­sistance totaling $54.5 billion, Whitten and Smith seem to be in a minority. The alternative, lawmakers realize, is for more of the war's costs to be borne by 


AP Photo 
Accidental explosion scene 
A Kuwaiti fireman hoses down the wreckage of a truck, car and bus in the compound of the Salmiah police station in Kuwait City Sunday following an accidental explosion in a storeroom packed with captured Iraqi weapons. There were no serious injuries. 
The Women's Resource Commit tee of the Groduete Student Union presents 
An Evening of Poetry: By Women, For Everyone 
Women writers from the ND/SMC communities will be reoding their work et the Snite Museum ot 7 p.m., Thurs., Horch 21 Reception following 
*********************** 
Persons interested in porticipoting should contoct Jessico Lopp et 283-3536 es soon es possible. 
~···································· 
U.S. taxpayers. 
"Our allies have a moral obli­gation to pay their share of the cost of this war," said Rep. Jim Chapman, D-Texas, who spon­sored the provision approved by the House March 7. "The American people have already paid with their lives, their troops, their will and their com­mitment," Chapman said. 
Last Thursday, the Senate Appropriations Committee without discussion endorsed a prohibition on arms sales to countries that have not fully lived up to their pledges. 
"If the promisor nation has money to buy arms from us, it can first use that money to ful­fill its pledge to help defray some of our costs," said the re­port accompanying the Senate bill. 
With little dissent, the House voted March 7 for milder lan­guage that vaguely warned, "If these commitments are not met, the Congress may consider appropriate action." 
The measure, cosponsored by Rep. Carl Pursell, R-Mich., gave contributing countries until April 15 to pay up -.the same deadline Americans face for their income taxes. 
Although the House provision does not state what action Congress might take, Pursell talked earlier in the month about requiring trade negotia­tors to take "appropriate action. " That represented a clear effort to get the attention of trading giant Japan, which has so far delivered $1.3 billion out of $10.7 billion in promised help. 
The two chambers plan to work out a compromise provi­sion this week. From the begin­ning, however, the House and Senate seemed to have separate groups of allies in mind in preparing their threats. 
In the House, much of the de­bate focused on .Japan and Germany, economic powers often singled out for criticism by lawmakers. So far, Germany has pledged $6.6 billion in aid and paid $3 billion. 
"Our European allies as a whole are 40 percent de­pendent on that region, and Japan is more than 65 percent dependent on that region" for oil, said Rep. Mary Rose Oakar, D-Ohio. "And yet our allies are not paying their fair share." 
The Senate ban on arms sales would hit hardest at Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which together have requests pending for modern 
U.S. weapons totaling $19 bil­lion. 
Saudi Arabia has made good on $6.1 billion out of $16.8 bil­lion it has promised, while the United Arab Emirates has paid half the $4 billion it has pledged. 
The Senate provision was harshest on the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.). The report stated that the U.A.E. rejected a 
U.S. request for $7 billion in aid, despite that country's oil wealth and its proximity to Iraq. This did not go over well with the senators. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, March 19, 1991 

Israeli official rejects Arafat's offer to talk 
PARIS (AP) -An Israeli offi­cial on Monday dismissed a re­ported offer by Yasser Arafat to participate in direct talks with the Jewish state. 
Arafat's offer for talks medi­ated by U.N. Security Council members appeared to mark a softening on the part of the PLO leader. In the past, he had insisted on an international conference, with other Arab nations present, to solve the Palestinian question. 
"I accept talks with the Is­raelis in the presence of the five permanent members of the Security Council at the negotiating table because I want a guarantee, and I need the pressure of the five on Israel," Arafat was quoted as saying Monday in the conservative Paris newspaper Le Figaro. 
Israel and the United States favor direct discussions be­tween Palestinians and Israelis, but Israel has refused any talks with Arafat or his Palestine Liberation Organization. An Is­raeli Foreign Ministry official reiterated that position. 
"We have said repeatedly we do not deal with terrorist or­ganizations," said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, in Jerusalem. 
Arafat said he couldn't accept Palestinians chosen from inside the Israeli-occupied territories to represent Palestinians in talks with Israel. 
"Our people has its leader­ship outside," he said."We can­not accept that the Israelis put this type of conditions on the dialogue, because we set none." 
Mocking the Israeli refusal to deal with those whom it consid­ers terrorists, Arafat said Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir used terrorist tactics when he was a leader of the Stern gang in Israel's war for independence. 
"At least he's honest about his reasons for wanting the council involved," said a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He wants pres­sure on Israel, and that's ex­actly why the United States and Israel don't like that idea." 
Arafat said Israel's accep­tance of an eventual Palestinian state was not necessary for the talks to begin. 
"The only thing that I have asked for is that international law -that is, the resolutions of the Security Council -con­stitute the platform for discus­sions," Arafat said. Security Council resolutions insist Israel withdraw from the territories it 
Work up to 6 months rn Bntarn. Ireland.. France. Germany, Jamarca. New Zealand, and Costa Rrca. Councrt·s Work Abroad Pro­gram, the only one of rts krnd rn the US cuts through all the red tape' 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs, drscount arr lares, language courses, and more. 
Council on lnt'l Educat•onal Exchange 
(U.S. Sponsor of the lnt'l Student I.D. Card) 
Chicago, IL 312-951-0585 Evanston, IL 708-475-5070 
occupied during the 1967 war. 
Arafat's credibility in much of the world has been eroded by his support for Iraqi" President Saddam Hussein during the Gulf War. Arafat sought to downplay that support in the interview, which Le Figaro said was conducted Sunday in Tunis, Tunisia, the PLO headquarters. 
"I was not with Saddam. It was Saddam who was with me, who took up my cause," Arafat was quoted as saying. "He is the first Arab head of state who dared make the link between oil and the Palestinian cause." 
Arafat said President Bush's outlines for a Mideast peace plan, carried through the re­gion last week by U.S. Secre­tary of State James Baker, con­tained "positive elements." 
Arafat said Shamir was the main obstacle to talks, "because he benefits from the unlimited support of the United States." 
The "ball is now in the Amer­ican court," Arafat said. 
AP Photo
lnkathas rally_ 
Members of ~he Freedom Party in Alexandra, South Africa run past a police armored vehicle while singing a war song pn~r t~ a peace ral.ly Sunday. At least four people were killed as more than 2,000 armed I supporters rallied m the township where dozens of people have died in recent tribal clashes. 
Whenthe Great AmericanDream isn'tgreatenough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
-------' 

Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 
~~M. ·s
at the IDI torage
March & April FREE! or 
Depot $10 OFF Your May Rent*~~~~-....,...,....,-r---,--~ 
*Present va1id Notre Dame I.D. for discount INotre DameI Rent a 5x10 or smaller . Rent for 4 months (5/1 to 8/31) 

Call 259-0-335 
(ask for Laura) 
~ 
~-------.. 
page 9
Viewpoint
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor 
Business Manager Lisa Eaton 
Gil Gomez 
News Editor •••••••••••••••.••.....Monica Yant 
Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor....••.••.•••••.•.Joe Moody 
Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ................ Dave Dieteman 
Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor.................... John O'Brien 
Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey 
OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emiiy Willett 
Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSI!y of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the po1tc1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac~urateiy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Ed1tor-m-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, 
IS encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Column was offensive and not well informed 
Dear Editor: 
Hobyn Simmon's "Handom Thoughts of Springtime" Inside Column (The Observer, March 5) was apparently a whimsical attempt at humor; however, I found some comments utterly offensive. 
First of all, her charge that T-shirts and other symbols ad­voeating a supportive stance toward the Persian Gulf War were purdy intendnd to "capitalize on the deaths of our young soldiers" is reprehensible. These items were one of the positive methods of communieating sentiment this country had during the conflict. They acted as an instrument of liberty by allowing those American who wishnd to express their feelings on the war openly. Explicitly Dear Editor: say boxing should be abolished. box because they want to learn stating that the manufacturers solely desired to make money off Last Friday night marked the Despite its charitable the art of boxing and to com­
end of the 61st annual Bengal foundation, the Bengal Bouts pete. Sure the Bengal Missionthe death of members of the armed forces is hardly a fair critique Bouts, a long-standing and well­are often included. could find other means of rais­and without foundation. 
respected tradition at Notre ing money, but the students
The massive response to this "paraphernalia" (which must have Dame.
displeased Miss Simmons) clearly indicates that there was an Those who know very little want to box. It is a program 
In its 61 year history, from
extensive demand for such products. Businesses were merely about amateur boxing tend to with a two-fold purpose. It al­acting on the demands of society. 
Dominick J. "Nappy" compare all boxing to the hor­lows young men to learn boxing Furthermore, the corporate world's response to this demand also Napolitano, the Bengal Bouts ror stories of the professional while supporting a worthy 
have given the bre'ath of life to ranks-the Doo Ku Kim's and
showed their support of the conflict. One of the elements I thought cause. No one forces students to 
the starving people of Bengal Muhammad Ali's. First of all, box for charity. 
was crucial throughout the crisis was the patriotic support many Mission in Bangledesh. "Strong the point of boxing is not topeople were willing to show. Our soldiers did not have to worry bodies fight so that weak bodies bloody one's opponent but to The professional fight game is 
whnther people were for or against them which would inevitably lnad to a questioning of themselves. Instead, they could focus on may be nourished" is the Boxing out score him on points. A right quite different, and it does need 
Club's motto, one that existed to the body counts the same as some serious consideration but
their objective which was to dispel Iraqi forces from Kuwait. I suppose Miss Simmons also has the notion that President Bush back when Knute Hockne boxed a jab to the head. It is a strate­do not try to compare amateur is upset because he could not kill off any more soldiers in his in the club. gic competition between two fighting to the crooked 
rampant warmongering. opponents. may the best man profession. Every year, the club brings in win. The oldest scenario of
In addition, Miss Simmon's point about war protestors and oil prices seems just as grossly erroneous. As I recall war protestors the director of the Bengal time. Then there is the fan consid­were the ones who claimed it was a war for oil not the other way Mission to express his gratitude eration. Are we all blood thirsty 
for the money the boxers raise. The boxers at Notre Dame are barbarians? No. True boxingaround as Simmons understood it. 
He often talks or shows pictures taught in a controlled envi­fans appreciate good fights and
Oil priees have been decreasing for a reason. Perhaps Miss Simmons forgot that initially petroleum prices soared because 
of the harsh lifestyle where he ronment by excellent coaches. competition. If fans are only in­global analysts reasoned Hussein to be a more formidable 
works. The money is Jack Mooney has been coaching terested in blood, they should desperately needed, and a little since Nappy started the pro­seek another venue. Boxingopponent and wreak more havoc on oil reserves. 
money can buy a good portion gram. Safety first is the block does result in some blood, but
Prices decreased after the miraculous success of the air campaign and the clear result that Hussein would be defeated of food, medicine and books. motto of the coaching staff, and what sport does not? quickly and decisively by allied forces. It was the degenerating The past Bouts have raised over the fighters are trained to block prottlsts of others that claimed the war was only for oil company ten thousand dollars a year punches before they ever throw If one is concerned over vio­
from ticket sales and promotion one. In the program's history, lent sports, why not try to can­profits. 
form local business. The Bengal there have never been a serious cel Notre Dame Football as
I suggest that in the future, Miss Simmons become more in­formed about her column material because her position as a Bouts have also raised injury, but boxing is a tough well?_ It has had more injuries journalist carries a burden of responsible reporting. something else. sport. than the Bengal Routs. Think 
Controversy. about it. Many people think that boxing Others think that boxing is
Eric A. Escagne 
is barbaric and should not exist perpetuated by greedy promot­Chris Sullivan 
Freshman 
anywhere, much less at Notre ers. Again, this is unfounded in Grace Hall 
Stanford Hall 
Dame. Some even go so far as to the amateur ring. Young men March 6, 1991 
OOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MIW, ['[) !1tM05T F0R6077!3N NHAT 
MR.. CVK£ 5TAR.T5 BaR TA5TEf?UK&! t.VPR.Y f?AY NITH 
'A good newspaper is a nation 
IN THbFiffWU!t'V/3 AQUAF<TOF /JaN PRINI<IN'HfXJCH AVIATION RJ&t. 
talking to itself.' 
MA!?t FmM a,455 I CU'AN&R! 

Arthur Miller 
QUOTE), P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Opposition to war undertaken to 
Dear Editor: cessation of hostility or a return 
and rational dialogue. Perhaps, 
to the precarious security of the 
Now that the war in the we were being unrealistic 
Persian Gulf seems to have past. True peace, the higher 
about the situation; perhaps
been brought to a successful peace which Christ demands of 
there is no functional place for 
conclusion, those who opposed the world, requires patience, ideals in the dealings of it willl be held up to scorn and endurance, foresight and nations. But in a democracy, contempt. They will be vilified selflessness. (John 14:27, Matt this witness for Peace assures as fainthearted nay-sayers, and 5:38-48). It is a kind of peace balance in the system. Without will be pictured as little better that nations have never been it, there would be little to deter
willing to pursue, it is perhaps
than pathetic, discredited some countries from engaging
unattainable, but it is an ideal
Neville Chamberlains. in the most barbarously brutal 
Those who supported which we must-never abandon. 
crusades. 
intervention and their many Witnesses to this Peace there which made possible his quixotic tripe or Wilsonian janissaries will surely feel must always be, for the world is Such crusades have often massive war-making capability. maundering, especially so to vindicated and will applaud full of those who will eagerly It was we who turned a blind those who pride themselves on
been undertaken to inaugurate
favor the violent solution. eye to his cruelty toward the being realistically discerning
their own courage and the 'new world orders.' It was to about he ways of nations. But I rightness of their convictions. Consider the recent conflict in this end that Hitler directed his Kurds, and applauded as he 
No doubt, they shall make good the Middle East. In newspaper pummeled our older nemesis do not believe that Christ calls
efforts. Now not all such new 
use of the issue in future editorials and on television world orders are so wickedly Iran. us to such cynicism nor to such elections and charge their programs, we were exhorted to a fatal acceptance of world
destructive, but they are 
opponents with almost war by those who pleaded for We did not talk of peace then, venality. "The words of the wise 
always delusive. The ignis
treasonous cowardice. the support of the troops. Our save when our own security or are heard in quiet more than
fatuus of 1914 and 1939 can 
But those who will exploit the forces were there, claimed the sucurity of our interests was the cry of him that ruleth
still rally a nation to combat, 
war for this purpose do so many, we must not desert them. imperiled. And our guilt is not among fools,' counsels the
and it is time it is exposed for 
wrongly. Many of us who And this passed for argument the fraud it really is. _to be confined to Arabia. The teacher in Ecclesiastes. opposed the war did not do so amongst those who needed drug-trafficking egotist, Manuel "Wisdom is better than
A true era of peace will not 
because we feared a national little convincing that war was rise like a phoenix from the Noriega, was the child of our weapons of war: but one sinner rout or because we underrated the only answer. own coddling. In fighting the destroyeth much good." (Eccl.
ashes of a battlefield. It will not 
the military prowess of the Some cried out for the use of Cold War, we felt few moral 9:17-18) In the days to come, as
dawn in a world divided, where 
coalition forces. It was not from atomic weapons, and others, the many sides each flatter qualms about supporting a the nation indulges itself in a themselves with a belief in
a fear of national disaster that who but days before had never whole host of odious frenzied mafficking bordering 
we urged further diplomatic even heard of Iraq or Saddam reprobates, in creating the on narcissism, those of us who
their won unique and exclusive
Hussein, believed that country Somozas, the Pinochets and the
efforts. But rather, it was moral superiority. It will only believe in genuine Peace will 
because we valued peace and its leader to be the very Marcoses of the Third World. probably be stifled. Having cast
come when we candidlyabove all else that we counseled epitome of evil, worthy of recognise that the Saddam off the bitter shackles of caution and conciliation. nothing but annihilation. If we do indeed desire peace, Vietnam, the country may likely 
Husseins of the world are the 
This peace we advocated was Speaking out against this the higher Peace of Jesus embrace militaristic coercion
products ef our own villainy 
not appeasement, nor was it as fanaticism, however, were those Christ, we must disenthrall more eagerly as a legitimate
and ambition. It was we in the 
some would have it, a mere who yearned for arbitration ourselves from these selfish and viable solution to future
West who to him the 
ambitions and this troubles. A momentous hour sanctimonious posuring, and be may be upon us, and now more willing to campaign sincerely than ever must we attest to the for it. What is required is the ideal of true Peace, even if it be diligence even of war itself, and heard, as it were, only in quiet. aggressiveness in pursuing international harmony, a freeing of oursleves from the B. Francis Perry delinquency which has marked Off-campus our diplomacy up unto this 
March 15, 1991
time. 
Opus Dei organization misrepresented by professor 
Dear Editor: Opus Dei would be precisely come. This is not to say, how­be helped and that need help? Should they withhold from fol­
In reading Prof. Peter where it was found: Fort ever, that we agree with their Personally I think that this is an lowing the teachings of the introduction to the John Butt Wayne/South Bend Chancery mistaken beliefs. Perhaps this is extremely narrow view which Church in which they believe? article, I found so many Office, as in this case. What is where Prof. Walshe is confused. few people are willing to hold. This certainly would be absurd. unfounded claims and secretive about this? To be open to all men does not With reference to Spain, let it As absurd would be the expec­contradictions that it would be Later on, Prof. Walshe claims mean to water down one's serve as a proof of an un­tation that something so per­impossible to answer all of that "the organization's role is beliefs or to compromise one's founded accusation that mem­sonal as a vocation-God's call­them. However, I intend to pro­not clear". Perhaps he can re­principles. This, certainly, is not bers of Opus Dei were also in ing--would need to included vide a few helpful clarifications. view the Bull Ut Sit where Opus the teaching of Gaudium et prison during Franco's regime. for an ordinary faithful as part It seems that the substance be­Dei is erected as a Personal Spes. The reason? Different political of his or her Curriculum Vitae. hind his accusations of Prelature. The supernatural How can a "work of social opinions. Opus Dei members, "secrecy" is a lack of research aim of this institution is clearly service nature" forget "the poor like everyone else in society, Certainly, no member of Opus or the desire to find a kind of stated. It has no human, power and society in general?" To use have complete freedom and Dei, like myself, would deny his "secret agenda" behind an or­seeking goals but only a desire Prof. Walshe's expression, I will therefore responsibility in their of her affiliation when asked, or ganization of the Catholic to be a of service to all give two of many examples own human endeavors. All fail to share such joy with his or Church with the simple aim: to mankind. from his "backyard." I am members have one common de­her friends. Again, this is not to help others to respond to God's But the more surprising claim referring to Midtown and Metro nominator: the teachings of the say that a person has an universal call to sanctity by is that Opus Dei tends to "turn Center for inner-city youth, two Church and the Spirit of Opus obligation to reveal this dedica­striving to find God in the ordi­their back" on the Vatican II of Opus Dei's corporate works Dei. Beyond these, both tion in a public manner. For nary duties of each day. Council teachings. Let's re­in Chicago. _ supernatural, you will find a that God has provided priest 
Given that Opus Dei is a pre­member, as an example, that Yet, one thing I would like to wide diversity of opinions. and Religious, who give us a dominant lay organization, the universal call to sanctity point out is that in Prof. Are members of Opus Dei, public witness of a life dedi­whose members are ordinary was preached by Msgr. Escriva Walshe's above quote, it seems simply because they are mem­cated to God. faithful and therefore find since 1928, doctrine that was that society is identified with bers of Opus Dei, to be forbid­themselves under their local confirmed by this Council. the poor. Is society only made den from seeking involvement Maria Sophia Aguirre Bishop's jurisdiction, a logical Furthermore, in Opus Dei, non­up of poor people? Are they the in legitimate human endeavors, Off-Campus place to find information about Catholic cooperators are wel-only ones that have the right to as any other person does? March 15, 1991 
A 'University' should be open to different ideas 
Dear Editor: This teaching, based on Biblical While law students at dictates (e.g. Lev. 20:13 and Georgetown are aiding and Rom. 1: 26-27), may or may not abetting the legal struggle for be correct. It is, however, a gay and lesbian rights to Catholic teaching. As such recognition on campus; while Catholic institutions are not free 
Harvard law students are taking to ignore it." the administration to legal task Perhaps there is something to 
Dear Editor: possible. The data from the stud~nts; your input is crucial
for not hiring more gay and be S!lid for an insular, pseudo­
The Academic Code of Honor survey will be used by the in determining the future of the lesbian faculty, we at Notre monastic model of educaiton. 
Committee has recently sent Academic Council in January, Honor Code. 
Dame are subjected to the "University" just doesn't happen out a survey to random 1992, when it decides whetherlegalistic pearls of Mr. Acker. to be one of those things. 
students to gather input from or not to implement the Honor John F. CoffeyCase in point: the student body regarding the Code into duLac. Students have Member, Academic Code of
"The Catholic Chur~h has for Craig B. McKee 
Honor Code. If you received one an opportunity to influence Honor Committee 
centuries taught that Reserve Book Room 
we urge you to ~omplete the academic policy which will Alumni Hall 
homosexual behavior is sinful. Evening Supervisor 
survey and return it as soon as affect all future Notre Dame March-18, 1991
March 11, 1991 


Accent 
Tuesday, March 19, j991 page 11 
Saint Mary's Women's Choir tours California 
By AMY GREENWOOD 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
As many students spent their spring break travnling, the Saint Mary's Wonwn's Choir was not excluded. The thirty girls along with Dr. Nancy Menk ventured to Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, and San Diego. Tlw tour began Mar. 8 with the choir performing at area high sdwols. eolleges and churches. 
The tour was an opportunity for the choir to display their hard work. Their program con­sisted of a selection of music by 20th Century composers. The works wen~ sacred and secular representing songs by Noel Gomnann, Pablo Casals, Hobert 
A. Harris. Theodore Morrison, Zan Munn. Hon Jeffers, Sven l.nkbnrg, Philip Lane, and David and Jonathan Willcocks. "The rare fact about our program is that all the composers excnpt one are still alive," said Menk. "Not only that, but wn havn actually worhd with somn of the composnrs also. 
One of the high points of the trip was the choir's Mar. 10 the program. included a lot of sightseeing. In ries and experiences about allowed the choir to expand as pnrformance at the Crystal This performance was not the Los Angeles, they visited Uni­Saint Mary's. "This was one of a group. "The trip proved to be Catlwdral in Gard1m Grove. The only honor for the group. On versal Studios and the Walk of the best parts of the very valuable because as the church serves as the home of Mar. 11, the choir sang at the Fame. The San Diego Zoo and trip, "reflected Freshman Tricia girls became closer personally 1wangnlist Hobert Schuller's na­Old Mission. According to Tiawana were also on their Desimone. "We talked about their singing improved," said tionally telnvisnd Sunday morn­Menk, performing there was a itinerary. the days when Saint Mary's Menk. "After performing the ing program. Tlw choir's per­unique experience because of While on the trip, the choir girls wore uniforms and men same songs over and over, the formanen was taped and tnle­the church's popularity. also stayed with Saint Mary's were not allowed past the par­girls were challenged to make vised last Sunday. Christian While the group's tour was alumni. They broke into groups lor." every performanee better than singer Sandi Patti also sang on filled with performances, it also of two or three and shared sto-Most importantly, the tour the last." 
Filmmaker's depiction of women is focus of current film series 


Barbara Hershey, shown here in "The Right Stuff", also stars in "Beaches" which was shown last night in Cushing Hall, and was the first film in a series focusing on women. 
'Starlight' tickets go on sale 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
In tlw tradition of the YPar of Wonwn. Notre Dame is featur­ing a weekly film series on wonwn. which began last night with tlw movie "Beadws" and will r.ontinue each Monday Pvnning for the rwxt live weeks. 
Tlw series, entitled "Women: A Film Fr.stival; flow Filmmakers Depkt Women," is co-sponsored by the Year of Women Co mm itte1~ and the Office of Educational Media. It consists of six films which were seii~CtHd by Sr. Elaine DesHosiers. O.P., director of 1~ducational media at Notre Dame. 
Acknowledging "how diflkult it is to choose six films from the vast colleetion of films that lend themselves to the study of women." Sr. DesHosiers said that "most are by women direc­tors, produeers and writers, and somn arn adaptations of novels by women." 
The primary goal of the film series is to give a sense of how women are depicted in film. both in thn past and present. According to Sr. I>esHosiers, tlwre is "a broad a seope (of depictions of women) as there are filmmakers." At the present time, however, she notes that tlwre is more emphasis on abuse in films about women, which tends to give a poor im­age of women based on stereo­types. 
The series began last night with the 1988 film "Beaches," directnd by Garry Marshall. This film, depicting a thirty­year friendship of a working dass Jnwish woman from the Bronx and an aristocratic WASP woman from San Francisco, featured perfor­mances by actors Bette Midler, Barbara Hershey, John Heard and Spalding Gray. 
"My Brilliant Career," a 1979 film, directed by Gilian Armstrong, will be shown on March 25. It features Judy Davis, Sam Neill, and Wendy Hughes who portray the life of a purposefully unmarried 19th century Australian woman. 
"Harlan County, U.S.A.," to be shown on April 8, is a 1977 film. produeed and directed by Barbara Capella. which docu­ments the efforts of 180 coal mining families to obtain a union contract. 
The fourth film in the series is "A Woman of the Dunes," a 1964 film, which will be shown on April 15. It was directed by Hiroshi Teshigahara. and pre­sents an allegory of modern life through a mysterious story about a woman who entraps a man. 
"Mnn," a 1985 film directed by Doris Dorrie. will be shown on April 22. It explores a sort of masculinity from a woman's point of view and features ac­tors Heiner Lauterbaeh, Ulrike Kriener, Uwe Ochsenknecht. and Janna MarangasofT. 
final film is the 1985 film "The Color Purple," which was directed by Stephen Spielberg. It features perfor­mances by Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey and deals with the growth to maturity and independence of an abused rural black woman. 
Sr. DesRosiers believes that there is a particular need for an increased emphasis on women at Notre Dame. and be­cause of this, the film series is targeted at a general audience of students, faculty, and the outer South Bend community. 
Sr. DesRosiers emphasized that although the series "might attract more women, it is not purely a woman's series." 
She said that while each film is excellent. "the value of the series will far exceed the value of any individual film," and she hopes that after each of the films, members of the audience will remain for discussion. 
With the exception of "Harlan County, U.S.A.," which will be shown in the ETS Theatre of the Center for Continuing Education. all of the films will be presented in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Each film will be shown at 7:30p.m.. and admission is $2.50. 
Tickets for "Starlight performances of the Express," Andrew Lloyd production on Friday, Webber's international hit Saturday, and Sunday. musical spectacular, will be available today and The ticket office will also Wednesday at the Gate 10 be open on show days from ticket office at the JACC 10 a.m. to curtain time. The from 10 a.m. -5 p.m. campus phone number to There are five call for tickets is 239-7358. 
Accent
page 12 Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
'The Doors' 
An Explosive Rock n' Roll Epic 
By JOHN FISCHER 
nament." Accent Writer Supporting roles are solidly played by Kyle MacLachlan, 
Whatever else you say about Frank Whaley, and Kevin the man, Oliver Stone makes it Dillon as the other three Doors. huge. MacLachlan seems to be And he makes it art. unable to jettison the straight­Stone's latest movie, "The laced demeanor of his Dale Doors," is compatible with his Cooper character on "Twin vision of the 60's and its vari­Peaks" in favor of something ous events and consequences looser in his portrayal of found in his earlier films, while keyboardist Ray Manzarek. 
making a stunning departure Crispin Glover turns in a typi­in style. These qualities, cally offbeat cameo as Andy combined with the legendary Warhol, while an Ed Sullivan flavor of the subject matter, impersonator takes a cartoon­make for an explosive rock 'n' Director Oliver Stone ish approach to his character. roll epic that doubles as a The musical sequences, classical tragedy of self­from youthful brilliance to sometimes lengthy, stand out. destruction. later, bloated excesses, Kilmer Stone avoids the MTV 
"The Doors" is a sprawling, fulfills Stone's vision, while syndrome, difficult to do in this a Miami concert at which a be­Two major injustices are disjointed film which tells, in a subtly showing the continued era of repetitive videos. sotted Jim exposes himself. done to Morrison in the film. dreamy, disorienting manner humanity and genius buried The concert scenes are wild, Any viewer who plans on al­Though he was in actuality an 
of the rise and fall of a band beneath the layers of whirlwind affairs which tering his or her consciousness alcoholic, he is drunken, which created some of the buffoonery and self-parody capture both the excitement of in some way before viewing the drugged, and out of control in 
most enduring music in rock sadly taken on by Morrison's the music when the Doors film should be warned that the nearly every scene. After fame history. This saga is focused on public persona in his later were "on," as well as the later swirling cinematography, com­has hit Morrison, Stone ne­the life and death of the Doors' days. concerts characterized by bined with his or her condition, glects showing any moments in talented yet troubled frontman, The Oliver Stone lead Morrison's confrontations with could compel the viewer to of­which the singer not
was 
Jim Morrison. character is again torn in this the crowd and the police. In fer an involuntary salute to taking long draughts off a The film may just as well film by Good (Meg Ryan) and either case, Kilmer succeeds in Bacchalinean excess. bottle or stumbling around, let 
have been titled "Morrison," as Evil (Kathleen Quinlan), much capturing Morrison's ·charisma, "The Doors," as the tragedy alone allowing Kilmer to tackle the other three band members, like "Platoon's" Dafoe/Berenger alternately infuriating the of a life of genius cut short by a quieter, soberer scene. while defined characters and dichotomy or "Wall Street's" crowd and stoking them to a confusion, self-destruction, and Jim's short stay in Paris be­
not simple stereotypes, have Martin Sheen/Michael Douglas greater frenzy. Visions of death at age 27, is an excellent fore his death is also omitted in little to do. But in Stone's combination. In this simplified Indians seen throughout the film, and beautifully made. the story. This period of VISIOn, James Douglas plot organization, Ryan as movie lend to the concert "The Doors" as a biography Morrison's life, after he left the 
Morrison is the story of the Morrison's long-suffering girl­scenes a tribal intensity also does not only fudge the truth, Doors and escaped somewhat Doors, even if accepted truth is friend, Pam Courson triumphs, present in the music. but in some places it is inaccu­from the fame that was de­sacrificed for the sake of the temporarily, before death takes One of the real outstanding rate. According to keyboardist stroying him, was relatively
Jim's soul permanently. points of the movie, however, is 
story. Manzarek, Jim Morrison never tranquil. The true story is mis­Val Kilmer as the Lizard King Unfortunately, Ryan's talent the cinematography. Stone hurled a television at him or represented by leading the is a phenomenal casting is wasted for the most part; her chooses a bizarre, risky, yet ul­stomped a roast duck to pieces viewer to believe that 
choice. He does not represent character serves as an over­timately successful mode of at a Thanksgiving feast. These Morrison's soul was forever 
Morrison, he is Morrison. He simplified angelic influence on conveying his tale. The entire incidents might make for excit­tortured. Though death was his moves, looks, even sings un­Jim's life. Though the movie film, and the concert scenes in ing theatre and a symbolic rep­only permanent escape, his life 
cannily like Morrison. Unlike mentions Courson's death particular, consists of a variety resentation of Morrison's inner came to an end amid much less any other film based on real three years after Morrison's, it of angles, swoops, long dis­turmoil, but for the viewer turmoil than the movie pre­people, Kilmer plays Morrison neglects to say that her death solves, and camera movement seeking a truer account of the sents. with such subliminal perfection was due to a heroin overdose. that makes Martin Scorsece's life of the Lizard King, books Despite its shortcomings,that one is almost never con­Ryan's role can be summed camera seem downright sta­such as "No One Here Gets Out Stone's "The Doors" is a tri­scious of the fact that the im­up in one single line of her dia­tionary in comparison. This Alive" by Danny Sugarman or umph of acting, directing, and 
age on the screen is an actor logue, as the Doors' entourage style complements Morrison's "Riders On The Storm" by story. For many, it has alreadyand not the genuine person. introduce themselves to the growing sense of disorientation drummer John Densmore are become the ultimate rock'n'roll 
In taking the lead character press: "Pamela Morrison, or-and alienation, culminating in recommended. movie. 
R.E.M.'s 'Out of Time' is a refreshing, diverse album 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR trying, as the mandolin and betray its message, which can Accent Writer 
acoustic guitars swirl around be interpreted as either a the the listener in a well­tribute to "shiny happy people 
After 11 years and seven al­layered ocean of sound. holding hands" or as criticism. bums, R.E.M. survives as one of "Radio Song," the opening Though the members of the most interesting enigmas in track to the album, criticizes R.E.M. helped to make envi­pop music. Fans, whose number the state of radio in America. "I ronmental concerns part of the increase with each successive try to sing along, but damn that popular consciousness, and release, never know what to radio song," Stipe complains in have spoken out against long­expect from the foursome, but his usual annoyed timbre. The boxes for several years, "Out of ultimately are satisfied with the amount of radio play this track Time'"s compact disc is re­outcome. receives will bear attention, if leased in a longbox. The group, 
This trend continues with and when R.E.M. daringly however, does not miss an op­"Out of Time," R.E.M.'s latest releases it as a single. portunity to get on a political LP. Though much of the mate­R.E.M. is daring on several soapbox. Included as part of the rial resembles nothing the tracks on this album. "Belong," disc's box is a letter to be sent group has ever performed, the for instance, is not sung by to the buyer's U.S. senator album is refreshing in its diver­Stipe, but spoken. The guitars pushing for increased support sity as well as its style. of this song communicate the to potential young voters. 
Indeed, "Out of Time" differs mood of the song very well, and In the group's own tradition. from R.E.M. 's other albums in Stipe's voice is as interesting R.E.M. poses a puzzle with "Out several areas. The band has spoken as it is sung. of Time"'s title. Has the quartet departed from its standard The jingle-jangle sound which chosen a title which deals with four-man front, opting to in­characterized the gr.oup the environmental, or political clude a wide variety of outside through much of their careers, state of the world, or is "Out of musicians. but seemed to have dried up of Time" a reference to the self­
Though Michael Stipe takes late, is present on "Out of contained atmosphere to which credit for the vocals in every Time", scattered among several the band had adhered for so song, bassist Mike Mills helps songs. "Half a World Away," for many years? If the group's past out on "Near Wild Heaven," playing with stints at mandolin, definite hit on the college radio example, is a throwback to record on clever puns is any while KRS-One of Boogie Down and drummer Bill Berry sings charts, and could very well be a Murmur, the group's first al­indication, both, and more, Productions contributes to and plays piano. success on par with "Stand" bum, in every respect but were likely intended. "Radio Song" and Kate Pierson Peter Holsapple, who joined and "The One I Love," both of Stipe's voice, which have be­Whatever the message in­of the B-52's duets with Stipe the group on keyboards for the which cracked Billboard's top comes more understandable tended in "Out of Time," R.E.M. for "Me in Honey" and sings "Green" tour, plays several dif­ten. with each album. has again ·succeeded in produc­backup on "Shiny Happy Peo­ferent instruments throughout R.E.M. still refuses to print Stipe's words are very user­ing excellent music. Though ple." the album, and several other the lyrics of their songs, and the friendly on "Shiny Happy Peo­long-time fans might initially 
Mills, in addition to his newly outside musicians also con­content of this track, as with ple," a track which resembles criticize this album as they crit­acquired singi_ng duties, plays tribute. nearly all of the group's work, is the B-52's because of Pierson's icized "Green," R.E.M.'s pop fi­organ on several tracks. Peter The first single from the al­difficult to decipher. Many vocal contributions. But the nesse must ultimately be appre­Buck supplants his usual guitar bum, "Losing My Religion," is a enjoyable hours can be spent song's easily understood lyrics ciated. 
.. 

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 page 13 
Tyson earns title shot with 7th round TKO of Ruddock Kings tie record 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Mike arena. He got up at 7 and a few of the fight between hea·vy­for road futility Tyson, rocked in the sixth Several minutes after Steele's seconds later, the bell ended the weight champion Evander round, beat Hazor fiuddock in shocking action, security men round. Holyfield and George Foreman with loss at Dallas 
the sevtmth round Monday night when referee Richard Steele stopped the fight after a flurry sent Huddock to the ropes but did not drop him. 
Huddock turned his hands up and looked at Steele in disbelief that the fight was over, then bodyguards representing both camps piled into the ring and a melee brokn out. 
Chaos reigned for several sneonds. 
Tyson knocked Huddock down in the second round and again in the third. Huddock, hownvnr, came on strong in the sixth and had Tyson in trouble latn in tho round with several hooks and a right hand. 
In the seventh, action slowed until Tyson landed a six-punch combination with both hands that sent Huddock back to the ropes and Steeh1 stopped it at 2:22. 
When order was restored in the ring and thn time was an­nounced. there were thunder­ous boos from the crowd of more than 15,000 in an outdoor were still pitching people from the ring. 
The last two punches that drove Ruddock into the ropes were a right hand and a left hook. He appeared dazed but looked more shocked at Steele's decision than from Tyson's punches. 
The fight was marked by thunderous punches from both men as they tried to end it from the outset. It was also inarked by wildness and by a lot of clutching and grabbing. 
'1\velve seconds into the sec­ond round, Tyson, winning for the third time since his upset ti­tle loss to James "Buster" Douglas 13 months ago, scored a nash knockdown with a left hook to the head. 
Huddock bounced up, sig­naled he was not hurt and took the mandatory 8-count. Tyson dominated the remainder of the round with body shots. 
Ruddock was in more serious trouble in the third when, with the round drawing to a close, he went down from a left hook. 
Tyson dominated the fourth round, again with body shots, as Ruddock appeared tired and befuddled. If he landed an up­percut, it seemed to do no damage. Many of his punches were blocked. 
In the sixth, however, Ruddock appeared like he might change the course of the fight. With about 10 seconds left in the round, he shook Tyson with a left hook, a right, a left and another hook. Tyson punched back but Ruddock landed a couple more hooks be­fore the bell sounded. 
Ruddock said, "Tyson hits hard for his size, but I am dis­appointed they stopped the light." 
Murad Muhammad, .Rud­dock's promoter, shouted, "We get a rematch or we go to court." 

The victory places Tyson in position to challenge the winner on April 19 at Atlantic City. Promoter Don King has said Tyson would fight Foreman should he win, but he would not fight Holyfield because Holyfield refused to make a defense against Tyson before fighting Foreman. 
Money talks in boxing, how­ever, and Tyson against the winner of that fight would be boxing's biggest money match. 
''I'm looking to fight Mike Tyson," Holyfield said after Tyson's victory. 
The 24-year-old Tyson weighed 217 pounds for his 40th victory, 36 by knockout, against one loss. He reportedly • earned $6 million. 
The 27 -year-old Ruddock, a native of Jamaica who lives in Toronto, weighed 228 pounds, giving him weight, height and reach advantages over Tyson. Ruddock is 25-2-1. He report­edly made $3 million. 
DALLA-S (AP) The Sacramento Kings tied an NBA single-season record with their 28th consecutive road loss, falling 104-86 Monday night to the Dallas Mavericks, who got 31 points from hot-shooting Rolando Blackman. 
Lionel Simmons had 19 points for Sacramento, 1-31 this season on the road. 
Bulls 121, Nuggets 108 
CHICAGO (AP) -Michael Jordan scored 15 of his 31 points in the third quarter as Chicago breezed past Denver for its eighth straight win and 24th in a row at home. 
76ers 99, Magic 91 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Charles Barkley scored 24 points and Hon Anderson led an 18-4 surge to start the fourth period as Philadelphia beat Orlando. 
The Observer accepts classlfieds every business day from 10 a.m. lo 3:30p.m. al the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfleds is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character par day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
'''ATIENTION JUNIORS.... Lustful Admirer, Dearest Carmelita, 1991 BENGAL BOUTS NEED A ROOMATE FOR NEXT TICKETS Could it be I miss you very much here in PROMOTIONS COMMITIEE:NOTICES SCHOOL YEAR AT CASTLE the object of your lust is me? London. Take care of Tim, Jim and POINT!II CALL DOUG AT X2051 ..NEED EXTRA GRADUATION'' Mosco for me. I cannot wait until 'Mo Elevado TYPING AVAILABLE ...... TICKETS ****** If it is true we are together again in August. 'Mike Glassletter 287·4082 WILL PAY$$$ FOR ANYONE Let's end this hullabaloo Love, 'Lloyd Adams VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to help NOT USING THEIRS Andrew 'Bill Kempf RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL with day care of kids between the CALL JOHN 289·9654. I'm tired of this muck 'AI Nicgorski QUALITY CALL 272·5667. ages of 0 and 4, Tuesdays from Let's just go.... The TUTUS ARE COMING II II II 'Howie Lanser 
9:00 · 11:15 (flexible). Contact The TUTUS ARE COMINGI!!II! ·sandy Gill FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM Patricia at 287-5961. $$$$$ Fritz Are you excited? 'Larissa Godish $1000 in just one week. Earn up to SENIORS 'Sean Kenney $1000 for your campus Needed: Ride to Fort Meyers· Need One Grad. nx HAPPY BIRTHDAY, We're Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid ·'Reggie Leach organization. Plus a chance at Naples, Florida area for Easter Call Kim x2669 KATHERINE McCARTHY!! to Wear Tutus While Playing 
$5000 morel This program works! break. Will help pay lor gas. Call $$$$$ Your adoring roomie wishes Basketball. And we don't mind Don't forget....the awards banquet is No investment needed. Call 1·800· Johanna. x2798. you a '1ruitful" 21st-remember that guarding with affection. WEDNESDAY, 932-0528 Ext. 50 I'll be with you in spirit tomorrow March 20th, 6:00pm in the 
nitel Have a shot lor Emily and Lizal Monogram Room at the ACC. LOVE, JEN KRISTIN SWENERTON 
I PERSONALS 
LOST/FOUND I I.____FO_R_R_ENT~ 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional Happy 22nd Birthday Swaniell YOUR ATIENDANCE IS ~------------------~ GRAD.WEEKEND couple will give your newborn the SENIORS Ill Hope you have as many O's on STRONGLY SUGGESTEDIII 
Someone accidently picked up BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY best things in life. Let us help you SENIORS !II your birthday as you did on spring (Let me know if you can't make it.) my long gray tweed winter 219·291·7153. through this difficult time. Medical SENIORS !II break!! Have Fun! SEE YOU ALL THERE!IIIII coat with a velvet collar expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Last Chance to buy Love from all your buddies 
Saturday night at a party on 3 BEDROOM APT. AVAIL. NOW! Call Barbara and Joe anytime. SENIOR FORMAL ·Amy Notre Dame Ave. A similar NEAR CAMPUS. 233·7631. (800) 253-8086. bids on He who watches whales in his 
coat was left behind. If you March 25 · LeMans Lobby spare time: I can't believe you E, Sled, & Sleeping Turkey: have it please call Karin at 3 Bedroom House Resumes .... Prolessional quality March 26 · Theodore's actually made it back alive, x1992.] Close to Campus 272·5667. (Tom Williams) from6·9. considering how W.ILD and OUT OF It's frozen shut. 
$555 Month + Deposit SENIORS Ill CONTROL your break was. Along First building taller-than Found: Ten-Speed Bicycle outside Ten Month Lease IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. SENIORS Ill the same lines, I can't believe you William Penn. the Architecture Bldg. 232·3616 Cash paid for all makes of SENIORS Ill found time to call me. (I'm glad you Uh-2 Call Tom H. at 289·7925 or come Computers and Software. Computer did) When you read this, I hope I Rolaids & Cocktail Sauce lind me in the architecture building. TIME IS RUNNING OUT · software for IBM and IBM FREE AEROBICS CLASSES have received my kick-butt Olympia Lifesaver holes 
Call before the BEST houses are compatible, Commodore or Apple, STEPAN CENTER present. If not, GET ON THE Hello, Cleveland! Rock & Rolli LOST: Brown leather ID holder gone 233-9947. $2 each. BALLI!. With a little sarcasm, as I'll bite your knees off! with $$$$ at bookstore or WESTERN ELECTRONICS wl ND Senior Kris Tortorella always-she who pays for first 6·0 library on 3/1. Reward if all 4· 7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91·92 1530 WESTERN AVE. Open to all stud. & faculty dates Pizza Pizza & Bear is returned. Teresa 271·9299 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776. 287·7550 12:15·1:15 every MWF The ratio couch 
Starting Wed. 20th March HEY PODGE!!! Penn River LOST: multicolored cloth Furnished Bedrooms and Shared NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and How's that elbow? I really miss She's flat. changepurse, lost between Main Living Areas. Avail. for 91-92 Yr. trade, gold, silver, diamonds, Dear Erin, you! I've been thinking maybe you Cows & no parking in the Circle and PW. Great sentimental Washer and Dryer. $200 per month jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, Words can never begin to were right (imagine !hall) and it median value. You can keep the change, includes utilities. Ph. 232·1776. camcorders, cameras, air describe how great I feel wasn't the cheese fries. No, what $92.50 America Starts Here! just give me the changepurse! Call conditioners, microwaves, tools, when we are together or am I thinking, of course it was the Still 55 Robyn at 2906. Gracias. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES Nintendo's, computers. how happy it makes me just cheese fries. Have a great spring Me & Julio 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE OZARK TRADING POST thinking about you. break in sunny South Bend! switching phone numbers IDEAL FOR 5·7 PEOPLE OTHER 1530 WESTERN AVE. Thanks for all that you have Luv from London! · Sled and Dave cuddling in the WANTED 3·4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE 287-7550 brought into my life I Your lavortie Pocahontas backseat! 
NORTH OF ND 2773097 YOU ARE THE GREATEST!!! P.S. watch those stairs!! ACCENT ON FUN I Coed, JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS It was awesome! Love, ND & sleepaway camp in Massachusetts "PREPARING FOR AND Love, Coming soon to a bookstore ND Soph. Chicks seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, FOR SALE PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH". Jeff near you ... DEATH OF A lifeguard. tennis, arts & crafts, all PRESENTATION BY PAUL MUSICOLOGISTIIIIIIIII (First J.J. is a big ol' honkin' dork. I hope land & water sports, fitness, IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND FOR SALE: printing epigonic series only) you enjoyed your sleep while gymnastics, piano/play lor shows. 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY PLACEMENT SERVICES. I watched the sunrisellllllllllllllll drama, judo, dance, archery, OWNER. FIREPLACE, CiA, FMRM 7:00 P.M., 118 NIEUWLAND Spacious contemporary home photography, computers. model W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND.15 MIN SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL 2 bed I 1.5 bath rocketry, guitar, radio. video, WALK FROM ND. APPT ONLY. WELCOME. WATERFRONT PROPERTY! yearbook, newspaper, wilderness. 234·811 6, EVE. Contact : Sleds Reality woodwork. AN. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS, 555·3275 
6/23·8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Tandy 1000EX/IBM compatl "PREPARING FOR AND Best offer by 4/20/91. Brassie Rd .. Eastchester, NY 5.25" int dr/3.5" ext dricolor PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH". 10707. 800·955-CAMP. mntr/Deskmate prgm + others/ PRESENTATION BY PAUL 91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC? 
blank 3.5" disks. $500 or B.O. REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND Need roommate? Call David Connie X7177 PLACEMENT SERVICES. (ND '90) 217-753-1641. SUMMER JOBS 7:00P.M. 118 NIEUWLAND 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS ROUND TRIP TICKET SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL PEACE LOVE and FiLA PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS TO BOSTON WELCOME. Welcome back from the trip from ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR FOR EASTER hell I LAKE PLACID. CALL JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS 65 South? 1·800·343·8373. 3·28 to 4·1 "PREPARING FOR AND 400 miles without Bob. 
must be male PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH". ITGIIIIIIIIII 
277·9366 PRESENTATION BY PAUL PEACE LOVE and FiLA National marketing filr]l seeks REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND outgoing part time individual to INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. PLACEMENT SERVICES. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY implemenl special marketing Buying a car? Good rates. Call me 7:00P.M. 118 NIEUWLAND CALLING VANESSA 272·9305. projects. Flexible hours and for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. SCIENCE HALL. TONIGHT. ALL excellent pay. Call Monica at 800· Office near campus. WELCOME. WONDERING WHY YOU SAW SO 592·2121. MANY FANCY MAPS AND HARD· 
IS IT TRUE. .... JEEPS FOR $44 Kelly , Mellie, and Tallie-I had a LV ANY REAL INFO DURING THE EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T? great time and miss you already. COVERAGE OF THE GLUF WAR? READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL FOR FACTS! Have a great time in Ireland. GCAG SPONSORING 2 SHORT 1·615·473·7440 EXT. B 504·649·5745 EXT. S-6840 Love, Lisa FILMS TONITE 8 PM, CSC. 
GUATEMALAN IMPORTS University of Notre Dame LaFortune Student Center Sarin Room March 18-22 1Dam-5nm.  

Purses, hats, belts, vests, other accessories, and traditional Guatemahm clothing and weaving. A ~ of Sales goes back to Guatemala to buy books & school supplies for children.  


Scoreboard WOMEN•s ..•...•
,. BRAGKET 
page 14 
Amarillo, Texas ,,, March 2~--23 
2. Ala.-Birmingham
--......,4PM 9PMI---­
?,Indiana 
'------14 PM · 
7th Place 
----112PM 
AllllmesEST 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American Laegue CLEVELAND INDIANS--Sent Jell Mulls and ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Sent John Erick& and World Laegue of American Football 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE AUentlc Dlvlalon 
w L Pet. GB x-Boston 4'!1 17 .742 Philadelphia 38 29 .554 12 112 New York 32 33 .492 16 112 Washington 23 41 .359 25 New Jersey 21 44 .323 27 112 Miami 20 45 .308 28 112 
Central Dlvlelon x-Chlcago 49 15 .766 x-091ro~ 41 25 .621 9 Milwaukee 39 27 .591 11 Atlanta 36 29 .554 13 112 Indiana 32 34 .485 18 Cleveland 23 41 .359 26 Charlotte 19 45 .297 30 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat DlvlalonEAST w L Pet. GB 
1. North Carolina. 42 .656
X'Utah 22 
3-Oklahoma Stale. San Antonio 41 22 .651 112 10, Te<Tl)le. Houston 40 24 .625 2 1~; Eaatem Midllgan. Dallas 24 40 .375 18 SOUTHEAST Minnesota 21 42 .333 20 112 ..'::::::,.,,~~-
Orlando 21 43 .328 21 
Denver 18 47 .277 24 1/2 >J;I(atl$;18. 4;Alabama. Pacific Divlalon MII)WEST x-Portland 47 17 .734 
1. OhiO Stale. x-LALakers 47 18 .723 112 
,.2;DuU. x-Phoenix 45 20 .692 2112 d>-4. St. John's. 
Golden State 34 30 .531 13 Seattle 30 34 .469 17 LA Clippers 23 42 .354 24 112 Sacramento 18 45 .286 28 112 
x-cllnched playoff berth 
Monday'• Game• Philadelphia 99, Orlando 91
NHLLEADEAS 
Chicago 121, Denver 108 Dallas 104, Sacramento 86 SCORING 
Phoenix 111, Indiana 103 GM G A Pte Plm Gr91zky, LA 73 38 113 151 16 
Tueeday'a Gamee Hull, Stl 71 79 42 121 22 
New Vorl< at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Recchl, Pgh 72 39 69 108 44 Boston at Atlanta. 8 p.m.Yzerman, 091 75 49 55 104 34 Houston at Minnesota, 8 p.m.Oates, Stl 72 24 76 100 27 Miami at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m.
Steve Cummings, p~chera, to Colorado Springs of Mark Clark, pitchers; Joey Fernandez, Mi<e RO&S, 
LONDON MONARCHS-Released Max 
Larmer, Chi 73 43 55 98 71
the Paclic Coast League; Tom Kramer, p~cher, to Greg Carmona, Roy Silver and J ullan Martinez Zendejas, kicker; Rickey Royal, cornerback; Nuu Sacramento at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m.
Sakic, Que 73 43 54 97 20
Canton-Akron of the Eastern League; and Eric Bell Infielders; and Jose Fernandez and Ed Fulton, Faaola. fullback; Richard Huff, free safety; Tony Portland at Golden State, 10:30 p.m 
Fleury, Cal 73 47 49 96 130
and Blttlger, pkcher, to their minor teage caJT1> for catchers to their minor league camp for LA Clippers a! LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m.
Manu and Cammie Collins, linebackers; Jeff Fryar, 
Macinnis, Cal 73 24 70 94 74
reassignment. Released Jell Musaelman, pkcher. reassignment. 
tackle; Aatron Kenney, wide receiver; and Steve 
Roenick, Chi 72 39 50 89 76
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Released Bo SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Sent Rafael Fuml, tight end. Placed Mickey Guidry, Coffey, Pgh 70 21 64 85 112 Wedneadey'e Game• 
Jackson, outfielder. Novoa. Mike Remlinger, Jimmy Williams, pitchers; quarterback, on the practice reserve squad. Washington at Boston, 7:30 p.m.
Ha-rchuk, But 73 29 54 83 28
MINNESOTA TWINS-Sent Orlando Lind and and Andres Santana, Infielder; to Phoenix of the Miami at Indiana. 7:30p.m. 
Lafontaine, NYI 69 40 42 82 38
Denny Neagle, pitchers; Joey Meyer, first PacHic Coast League; Jimmy Myers and Kevin COLLEGE Minnesota at New Jersey. 7:30 p.m.
Robitaille, LA 70 40 42 82 56
baaeman; and Joe Slwa. catcher, to their minor­Rogers, phchers; and Scooter Tucker, catcher; to BUCKNELL-Announced the resignation of Lori Cleveland at New York, 7:30p.m.
Janney, Bos 71 25 57 82 8
league caJT1> for reassignment. Shreveport of the Texas League; and Jim Wilson, Howard, women's basketball coach. Detroft at Philadelphia. 8 p.m.
L991ch, NYR 74 16 66 82 40
National Laegue Infielder, to their minor league camp for FORT HAYS STATE-Announced the Atlanta at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.
Neely, Bos 63 45 36 81 94
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE8-Sent Kim Batiste, Phoenix a! Dalla, 8:30p.m.
reassignment. resignation of Bill Morse, men's basketball coach. 
Nleuwendyk, Cal 73 42 39 81 30
shortstop; Tony Longmire and Julio Poguero, Utah at Denver, 9:30p.m. 
TENNESSEE-Named Steve Pederson 
Sandstrom, LA 63 39 41 80 88
outfielders; Amallo Carreno and Chuck Malone, FOOTBALL LA Lakers at Seattle, 10 p.m.
recruklng coordinator. 
Bourque, Bos 69 16 64 80 65
pitchers; to Scranton-Wilkes-Barre of the National Football League Portland at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m.
Gagner, Min 67 38 40 78 96
International League; Jeff Grotewold, Sal MIAMI DOLPHINS--Signed Eric Sievers, tight 
Stevens, Pgh 73 35 42 77 127
Agnoetlnelll and Doug Lindsey, catchers; and end. 
Fedorov, 091 72 31 45 76 59
Louie Meadows, outfielder; to their minor league 
Maclean, NJ 71 43 32 75 140
caJT1> for reassignment. 

The Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For information: 239·5293) 
NOTE: During this semester the Center offers its resources to the Notre Dame community for education and reflection on issues of war and peace. 
The following events are sponsored, co-sponsored, or related to the Center for Social Concerns. They will be held at the Center IDlless otherwise noted. 
Apr. 3 -Wednesday "Rerum Novarum/Gaudium et Spes: A DoubleMar. 18, 19,21 Appalachia Seminar Followup 
8:00p.m. Anniversary," Fr. J. Bryan Hehir, U.S. Catholic Conference Washington HallMar. 20-25 Visit of Salvadoran University Students Apr. 4-Thursday Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Catholic WorkerMar. 20-Wednesday Mass in honor of Archbishop Romero 5:15p.m. Sacred Heart Church 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. House of South Bend 
5:00-7:00 p.m. Annual Leadership Transition Meeting for Center for
8:00p.m. "Update: The 1989 Jesuit Martyrs of Social Concerns Groups
El Salvador," Fr. Paul Tipton, S.J., Association of Jesuit Universities 
8:00p.m. 'The Pittston Strike," Gene Carroll, United Mine Workers
Keenan/Stanford Chapel 
Apr. 5-Friday Friday Forum for Faculty & Staff, "Labor EmploymentDeadline: Applications for Holy Cross 12:15-1:00 p.m. Relarions: Law & the Labor Market," William Leahy,
Associates Domestic Program 
Prof., Dept. of Economics Mar. 21. Thursday 'The Christian Conscience: Ethical 
Apr. 14-Sunday Swruner Service Project Workshop (Required)7:30p.m. Perspectives on War & Peace: "Formation of Conscience & Conscientious Objection," 10:00 a.m.-Noon Dr. Todd Whitmore, Assist. Prof., Theology 
Apr. 18 -Thmsday HosPitality Lunch for the benefit of Women United
LaFortiDle, Tom Dooley Room 
11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. for Justice & Peace 8:00p.m. "Contemporary Implications of the Life and 
4:00 p.in. "Human !tights," Barbara Frey, Mirmesota LawyersDeath of Archbishop Romero," Prof. Terry International Human Rights CommitteeKarl, Stanford University Apr. 20-Saturday Sorin Society "Recognition Weekend," CSCMar. 22-Friday Friday Fonnn for Faculty & Staff 2:15p.m. Presentation
12:15-1:00 p.m. "Feminist Theory & the Media," James Collins, Assoc. Prof., Communication & Theatre 
Apr. 25-27-IPSM Advisory Council Meeting Mar. 27-Wednesday Infor:nation Night for these Seminars: 
Thursday-Sarurday Appalachia-May 12-18 Mississippi-May 12-18 
May 8-Wednesday CSC Advisory Board Meeting Panama-May 11-18 
9:30 a.m.-2:00 p.m. 
May 11-18 Panama Seminar May 12-18 Appalachia Seminar ~-.!!lf;. ' 
Mar. 28 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of El Campito 
11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 
May 12-18 Mississippi Seminar ~ 
Mar. 31 -S~mday EASTER 
May 18 -Saturday Send-Off Ceremony for Senior Post-Graduate ( 
k 
PEACE WITH JUSTICE WEEK 11:00 a.m. Volunteers, Washington Hall . .). )
APRIL 1-6 Apr. 2-Tuesday "I Cannot Be Silent: Tolstoy on Christianity, Open House & Programs for Alumni Reunion •
J~me 7-8 
l1 prI 
7:30p.m. Pattiotism & War," Joseph Gatto, ND Prof Emeritus 
Nurture Life Through Serv•ce~~lilllt~~""" 

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 page 15 

Tourney followers 
Hip injury forces Jackson to dugout 
"Eastern Michigan
BIHMINGHAM. Ala. (API -cartilage damage in the hip off game against Cincinnati in 
Bo Jackson was released by the socket. January, and that has kept him YPSILANTI, Mich. (AP) ­Kansas City Royals Monday Joyce felt very strongly that out of spring training with the When basketball season beganafter the team determined his Jackson definitely should not Kansas City Royals. 
last fall, most figured a teaminjured hip would not allow him play baseball this year. Other But he said it was a from Michigan would make itto play baseball this year. doctors consulted by the B.oyals "significant injury" and that into the NCAA's elite field of 16. 
The Hoyals will ask waivers thought there was a possibility blood flow to the hip joint is Few figured it would be theon Jackson Tuesday morning Jackson may play again, but being monitored. 
Eastern Michigan Hurons. Fewand any team can daim him for Joyce believes that was highly except coach Ben Braun and his $1 In the waiver period that uncertain. The doctor declined to elab­determined players. 
nnds 2 p.m. EST Friday. Robinson said different orate when referring to news "It was one of our goals,"''This action is taken with doctors gave different time media reports that Jackson may Braun said. 
deep regret," Royals General frames for when Jackson would have avascular necrosis, a 
"Nothing this team does
Manager flerk Robinson said. be able to play again. potentially career-ending condi­
really surprises me. It is a
"The entire Royals organi­However, Jackson said tion in which bone tissue dies tough, hard-nosed crew. Theyzation is deeply appreciative to Monday he feels he will return because blood cannot reach it. 
come to play." 
Bo for his eontributions to the to playing baseball this season, Eastern Michigan has playeddub. We wish him and his fam­and a doctor who examined the . "There has been no collapse in the shadows of its Big Tenily the w~ry best of health and two-sport star did not rule out a of his hip joint," Andrews said. 
neighbors, Michigan State andsuccess." return to football as well. "That's the reason we're Michigan, since joining theRobinson said the Royals "Don't count me out," the 28-putting him on crutches." 
ranks of the NCAA Division I 17 would pay one-sixth of the year-old Jackson said at a brief "We're in a protective phase years ago. 
$2,375,000 million contract news conference with his at this point," said the doctor. 
But this year, Michigan andJackson agreed to in February. personal physician, Dr. James who left open the possibility Michigan State are finished. It's
Andrews of the Alabama Sports that Jackson may eventually be 
the Hurons who are in basket­Or. Steve Joyce, the Hoyals' Medicine and Orthopedic able to play football for the 
ball's spotlight, thanks to
tt~arn physldan, said Jackson Center. Raiders. 
Sunday's 71-68 overtime victory has a fracture dislocation of hls Andrews did not give a spe­against Penn State in the NCAAleft hlp. The injury, sustained in cific diagnosis of the hip injury "I know deep down I'll be East Regionals. 
the Los Raiders playoff game on · that Jackson sustained in the back playing baseball this Eastern Michigan's 11-game.Jan. 13, has resulted in Los Angel. ;' RaidP.r<; NFL play-year," Jackson said. 
winning streak, second in the 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
REDUCE • REUSE •RECY CLE• REDUCE •REUSE • RECYCLE • E R 
3 Announcing: · 
~ ~ University Food Services' 
g 
• R 
!Mug Refill Program! 
~ 
E 
E
u 
u
s 
• Preserve Our Trees 
s
E E
• Uses Fewer Natural Resources 
• 
•
R 
• Reduces Solid Waste 
R
E E
c 
c
y 
y
c 
20oz mug $1.75 
c
L 
L
E 
12oz mug $1.50 
E• 
including first fill-up 
• E 
R 
R 
E
D 
D
u u
c 
c
E 
Receive a 10¢ discount on all fountain drink 
E
• 
refills with this mug. 
•R 
Just bring the Refill Mug in with you. 
R
E E
u 
There is no expiration on this offer. 
u
s 
s
E 
l{ 
•
Available at: the Huddle, Oakroom, Nite Oak, 
E 
R 
c 
E
Decio & Waddicks 
y 
c 
y
c c
L 
Please help save our environment. 
E 
L •REDUCE•REUSE•RECYCLE•REDUCE•REUSE•RECYCLE 
-
-
asking themselves, who?" after upsets 
nation only to Nevada-Las Vegas' 43-game streak, will be on the line Friday against North Carolina in the East Regional semifinal at East Hutherford, N.J. 
Eastern Michigan (26-6) the 12th seed in the East, earned its way into the tournament by claiming the Mid-American Conference title after claiming the regular-season crown with a 13-3 record. 
The team, which has already set a school record for wins, had made the NCAA in 1988 for the first time and this year set a higher goal. 
"Maybe a couple years ago we were happy just to be in the tournament because it was the first time we were there," Braun said. "But I don't think that's the case anymore. 
"The players believe in themselves, believe in each other. They're playing to win." 
Guard Lorenzo Neely said the 
team wants to prove the MAC 
belongs in the tournament 
alongside the traditional bas­ketball powerhouse confer­ences. 
"I always feel to myself we're all on the same level," Neely said. "It's just that they get more publicity day in and day out and the Mid-American Conference doesn't." 
This is the second year in a row a MAC representative made the Sweet 16 in the NCAA. Ball State did it last year, but Eastern Michigan has never advanced this far. 
The team boasts an inside game built around 6-foot-7 center Marcus Kennedy, who led the league in scoring with a 20-point average. 
Women 
continued from page 20 
(third) and sophomore Kay Broderick (fourth). Tri also emerged as a breaststroker in the last month of the season. placing seventh in the 200 breast (2:27.87). 
Senior Christy Moston finished sixth in both the 100 and 200 backstrokes, while senior Jean Kelly scored points and recorded personal best times in both the 200 IM and 100 butterfly. Co-captain Chrissy Ciletti also recorded a lifetime best in the 1000 freestyle. 
Co-captain Tracie O'Connell and senior Callie Bolattino swam legs on university record breaking relays. O'Connell anchored the 200 freestyle relay team (1 :39.04). Bolattino swam the breaststroke leg on the 200 medley relay team of Stephens, Williams and Alicia Feehery (1:49.36) . 
"When a program is strong, seniors hav.e a good championship meet," said Welsh. "The seniors swam a phenomenal meet and in the process established the tone of the meet." 
Feehery also anchored the third Irish record-setting relay, the 800 freestyle relay team of Susan Bohdan. Colette LaForce, Williams and Feehery (7:45.54) . Bohdan also set a university record in the 500 freestyle (5:05.97). 
Welsh was pleased with the season's results and looks forward to the NCAA meet. Williams will compete in the 200 and 400 IM and the 200 fly this week in Indianapolis. Last year Williams placed 11th in the 400 IM and 27th in the fly. Welsh predicts her im­provement this year as a racer will translate into an improved performance at NCAA's. 
~------------------------------­
The Observer
page 16 
Men's tennis ponders what could have be~n 
By DAVE McMAHON match 5-4. 6-4 win in the second set. Associate Sports Editor The third time was a charm "It was a season saver for Notre Dame, which once morale-wise for us against
It was a spring break of again fell behind 4-2 in singles Texas A&M," said Bayliss. "what could have been" for the competition but pulled out an After some tough matches in 14th-ranked Notre Dame men's overwhelming sweep in doubles Texas, the team journeyed to 
tennis team, which went 1-2 in to win the finale over Texas Los Angeles to faced the top­the H.E.B. Classic at Corpus A&M 5-4. ranked UCLA Bruins (18-0). Christi, Texas. before falling to DiLucia and Schmidt snagged Despite a recurring back top-ranked UCLA on Saturday. the only singles wins for the problem, DiLucia continued his 
The Irish (10-8) broke into Irish, and DiLucia-Coleman, phenomenal play, trouncingthe national rankings last year ranked fourth nationally, won in Jason Netter, a finalist in last at the Texas tournament, but straight sets in doubles. At year's NCAA tournament, in 
ran into some stellar competi­three doubles, Wenger-Schmidt straight sets, 6-4, 6-3. 
tion the second time around. In lost the opener 4-6, but gained "I matched up well with their opener against Alabama, their composure in the ensuing Netter," said DiLucia. "He's gotNotre Dame lost two heart­sets, winning 6-3 and 7-5. a great return to counter mybreaking singles matches, serv­Number-two doubles provided game. It was good to be able to 
ing 5-4 in the third set before the Irish with yet another nail­fight through the injury and win losing both sets 7-5. biter, as Zurcher-Forsyth were a match against someone of his "In that type of situation you down 5-0 in the first set. True caliber." expect to win at least one," said to the team's unyielding char­Coleman nabbed a much­

The Observer/John Cluver 
coach Bob Bayliss. "We could acter, the duo stormed back, needed win at number-three 
Junior All-American David Dilucia continued to roll, climbing to the have been tied at three-all go­stealing the first set 7-6 before sin.gles, but the rest of the number-three ranking with his four wins over spring break. 
ing into doubles instead of wrapping up the victory with a squad fell in straight sets. down 4-2." Numbers one and two dou­bles jumped out to comfortable 
~ 
~~ ~ 
~~ 
~~~ 
leads, but the Crimson Tide 
~ 
NEED A CHALLENGING, YET
J
rolled at number three, giving 
~
Alabama the 5-2 win in Notre 
Dame's first outdoor match of 
FUN JOB FOR NEXT YEAR??? 
the season. 
Apply for a position working for the
"We didn't look as good out­
~ Spend an Undergraduate Semester 
.
side as we did inside," said 
Student Activities Office. 
Bayliss. 
I J in Leuven, Belgium 
Their second match, against 12th-ranked Florida, brought 
September-December 1991 
Positions Available For: 
more of the same for the Irish. 
LaFortune Building Managers 
Witness the development of the European Community andFor the second consecutive 
J 
preparation for a barrier-free market. From your base in Leuven 
match, the only Notre Dame 
Stepan Building Managers wins in singles play came from 
near Brussels, travel throughout Europe during your stay. All 
Game Room Attendants 
junior All-American Dave 
courses are designed exclusively for American students taking part DiLucia and sophomore Andy 
Information Desk Attendants
in this unique program. Fifteen credit hours cover: Zurcher. Down 4-2 after sin­
Sound Technicians 
J • Development of the European Community gles, doubles action brought a 
• The European Economy !( 
Office Assistants 
lineup change from Bayliss 
J
' 
• European Institutions 
who replaced Paul Anthony 
24 Hour Lounge Monitors with Schmidt at number-three 
• Comparative Politics 
Theodore's Room Monitors 
• European Culture doubles. Schmidt paired with 
( 
Theodore's DJs 
Ryan Wenger to take their 
J Registration deadline: July 8
match. The number-one team of 
Stop by the DOOLEY ROOM on THURSDAY, MARCH DiLucia-Coleman cruised as 
J For additiooal. information, call or write: 
c u A THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA 
21 for job descriptions, information, and applications
well. After losing the first set J ~ D<. John Kromkow•ki, A••· Do.n fo< ln""'•tionol StOOioo and recovering for a second set 
The European Studies Semester 
from 5pm-7pm. Applications are also available to be 
win, the number-two team of 
J 
Washington, D.C. 20064 
picked up at the Lafortune Information Desk through 
Forsyth-Zurcher tied the Gators 
J 
Telephone: 202-319-5128 Telefax: 202-319-4440
at 5-5 in the third set. Forsyth 
J March 25. All applications should be submitted to
lost his serve and Florida held 
' 
~
taking the the set 7-5 and the 
Student Activities by Wednesday, March 27. 
~ 
J, -...................... lh.. 
How to start yourlaw career 6efore you start 
.
The Notre Dame German Summer Language Institute offers a summer 1 law sChool. . program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn as much as 9 language credits ($ 122 per B credit) within 7 weeks in small, intensive classes taught with imagination. Both profes_sors Pl. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. ~Willia!lls & Wimmer) are experienced in offering concentrated, yet personalized 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT mstructlon. 
students score over 40. That's the top 10% 
German Feature Films/Soaps 
nationwide! And candidates who score
·, Dally Tutorial 
i. Tuition Savings 
~ Personal Attention 
chance ofbeing accepted to the law school
·•·. lmaglnatl~~ve~;str;l:t~:;oom 
Atmosphere 
oftheir choice and going on to practice 
Two experienced Professors 
with top la'N firms or corporations.
1 
The Language of the 90lcs
~~ 
1 
So call any of our 120 centers for
~Classes Offered (three credits each): information and class starting dates. The 
-GE 101 Beginning German 1: June 18 -July 1 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
if. 
Intensive introduction to German for students with no or minimal background 
one pre-law course that determines the 
!ll! GE 102 Beginning German II: July 2 -July 16 
course ofyour law career.
ll Continuation of GE 101 ~ GE I03 Beginning German III: July I7 -August I 
c
I'll Continuation of GE 102 I Fulfills ND language requirement 
I I " 
!KAPLAN 
I 
GE 125 Intermediate German I: June IS -July 9 
STANLEY H. KAPt.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
A course for students with some background in German. Grammar review, 
DON'T COMPETE WITH
reading, comprehension, and speaking. 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
GE 126 Intermediate German II: July 10 -August I 
1711 [ • SW1H llEJI) AVE.
Continuation of GE I25 
SIDTH llEJI>, IN 116637 219/272-4135 
6/l0/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 
~ae<·3D:•)QE~
L-,_,_,.·-·--' 

------------------------------------~--------------------· 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
sponsor a 5K run on March 24 at Stepan Center is at 11 a.m., and the entry 
donation is $3.00. All proceeds go to financially <rn'"""'" families of servicemen in the gulf. 
•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students staff should start training now. 

•Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's sailing team: We will be starting mandatory practices Mon 

18, for all members who would like to participate in the Freshman Ice Breakers. Practices held every day at 2:30p.m., rain or shine. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball captain's meeting will be held today, March 19, from 7:30-9:30 in Auditorium. 

•Early 
Bird aerobics in the JACC, class meets in gym 1 every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30-7:30 am. Sign up now in the NVA office. 

•Boxing 
Club banquet:All Bengal Bout boxers are invited to a banquet on Wednesday at 6:00 in the Monogram Room. 

•The 
water polo club will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 8:30 at the pool. We will discuss our trip this weekend to Dayton. 


---------------, 
page 17 
Ismail's unbeaten streak snapped at NCAA meet 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
After a track campaign in which Raghib "Rocket" Ismail broke several 55-meter dash records enroute to an unde­feated season, the Notre Dame sprinter had a streak of his own broken at last Saturday's NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships. 
Washington State's Augustine Olobia edged out Ismail in· the 55-meter final to capture first place and end the Rocket's ca­reer unbeaten record. 
Olobia crossed the finish line in 6.17 seconds while runner-up Ismail posted a time of 6.19. 
Although unaccustomed to defeat, the always upbeat Ismail praised Olobia's effort. 
"He was really strong," re­marked Ismail. "I think we were all a little tired going into the finals." 
Ismail will now look towards an outdoor season in whieh he will compete in the 100-metet dash. 
Although Ismail has not com­peted at that distance since high school, Irish sprint coach John Millar believes the Rocket possesses the ability to succeed on a national level. 
In other races, Irish captain Ryan Cahill failed to advance to the finals in the 3,000 meter run, finishing a disappointing seventh in his heat. 
Although Cahill was not sat­isfied with his performance, he was impressed with the meet's high level of competition. 
"It was a great opportunity to 

act... 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* (*CBS) 
-(tMPUS 
MINISTRY 
SPONSORED BY 
DuQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
Spending your SUMMER in Pittsburgh? 
DUQUESNE'S 1991 SUMMER SESSIONS OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
Registration for visiting students is easy ­by phone, fax, mail or in person! 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 
for your complete SUMMER 1991 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
race at that level." he said. 
Cahill also believes the experience will help his chances of qualifying for the NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
while his 100 butterfly time of 
50.26 also broke his university record. 
But the strength of the seniors set the tone for the record-setting meet. Irish tri­captains Brian Hini, Jim Byrne and Paul Godfrey swam outstanding races in their last collegiate competition. 
Hini reset two of his university records in the 500 freestyle (4:35.88) and the 200 butterfly (1 :50.98). Byrne captured his first championship win in the 400 individual medley (4:05.12) and Godfrey swam his fastest meet since his freshman year in the 400 IM and 1650 freestyle. 
Freshman David Nathe also set a university record in the 200 freestyle with a winning
IYoucouldget free tuition. Itime of 1:39.43. 
I~~~Ar~ job. ~-~i-n~-~m-~ge-.l­
Un1Ytf11ry or Notrt Dame 
None Oomo. IN •6556 CAMPUS MINISTRY 
ALL STUDENTS AND MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY INVITED TO ATTEND 
Ecumenical Bible Study 
EVERY TUESDAY -7:00 p.m. 
Campus  Ministry Badin  Conference Room Hall  
B One ring  Hour Your  Sessions Own Bible  
Directed  by:  Rev.  AI  D' Alonzo,CSC  

For Additional Information Call: 
239-5955 239-5242 

1!opurt~~d f\~0~..~~~----'-=-lli··---I~~~rc~krtt~::~:ce:~~:~t~r~ f:E~
J · .c._ _ ___ _ ond goal and Curtis Janicke put 
I 
D
the puck in the nets to give the o you have the potenttal to he one of the best teachers in America? Irish their game-winning score. If so, the Kansas City Magnet Schools will pay for your education. All we Fairbanks did score two goals
I 
I 
ask in return is your 3-year commitment to teach in one of our exciting themes: m i d way t h r o _ugh the fi n a I period, but it wasn't able to get• Science/math • Foreign language • Engineering the game-tying goal, and the • Reading • Agribusiness • Communications 
Irish won their 16th game of 
I 
• VlsuaVperfonning arts • Montessori the year. If you're a U.S. college junior, senior or Master's candidate, complete and mail "It was a very good game for 
the coupon for complete information. us," said Schafer. "(We played) MAIL TO: TIAP COORDI:'\ATOR, Dept.~ sound defense, coupled with 
opportunistic scoring. It was a 
School District of Kansas City, Missouri good next-to-last game for us." Human Resources Division, Room 801 The Irish are looking ahead
I 
1
1211 McGee, Kansas City, Missouri 64106 to next season already, as Notre Dame will lose only two players ,.uif to graduation-only one of _ _ _ whom played regularly. The 
I 
I 
AimRF." current cast, which finished with a winning record of 16-15­cm-~•m ZIP 2, will hopefully add a strong freshman class, and with that PHO\WCI combination, the Irish eyes will 
coufGfAffi\lli\G -------------have the NCAA Tournament in 
their sights next season. The Kansas City Magnet Schools ...J "We learned (this past sea­
L An equal opportunity employer. M/F/H/V son), we have everybody back, we'll be a better team next 
.....~~-.. year," said Schafer. 
-. 
~-TheObsewer Tuesd March 19,1991 
I~__~~~~-~~~------~~~
·1s
Softball finishes 2nd at Sycamore Classic 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team played fifteen games over a busy spring break. The break was a time for the team to learn more about themselves and the season. 
The team finished with a 5­10 record and a second-place finish in the Sycamore Classic at Indiana State. 
"We didn't play as well as I had hoped we would, but we played well in every game ex­cept one, and we got an indica­tion of what we can do," said Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac. 
Starting the break off on the wrong foot, the Irish lost their first two games to Miami of Ohio. The team also had trouble with Pittsburg State, Iowa State and Washburn at the University of Houston tournament. 
Boulac summed up the prob­lem this way: "We just can't make mistakes and let them compound. We were our own worst enemy in too many in­stances." 
In Houston, the team defeated Upper Iowa 5-0. The Irish jumped to an early lead by scoring two runs in the first in­ning, and that was all they needed due to the solid pitching of freshman Carrie Miller. Miller fanned nine in five in­nings of work. Junior Ruth Kmak led the Irish offensively with two singles. 
Against North Carolina, sophomore Staci Alford and Miller pitched the Irish to a 3-1 victory. Junior Amy Folsom, senior Megan Fay, and Miller each had a run-scoring hit in the sixth inning to break open the game. 
In the lf!.st game in Houston, sophomore Debbie Boulac led 
Snub 
continued from page 20 
knew it was then or never." 
Notre Dame kept its poise, however, and retook the lead for good with 8:36 left on a Davis lay-up. That started a 9-2 Irish spurt which gave them a 56-48 lead with 1:33 remaining. 
However, the play that sealed the game for Notre Dame was a controversial intentional foul called on Bulldog star Julie VonDielingen as Karen Robin­son went in for a lay-up. Robinson sank both free throws, and on the subsequent possession, Coquese Wash­ington hit two more foul shots to boost the lead to 60-50 with 55 seconds left. 
"We were dead then," said Butler coach Paulette Stein. "That play put an end to any ray of hope we had." 
VonDielingen led all scorers with 23 points, but no other Bulldog was in double figures. Robinson was high scorer for Notre Dame with 22 points, while Davis chipped in 17 to earn the tourney's Most Valuable Player award. 
"Butler played a great game. There were a couple of times when we lost our composure, but our senior leadership took over and settled us down," McGraw said. 
., But it still wasn't enough. ''I'm very disappointed, espe­cially for the seniors," McGraw said. "They felt like they were ripped off, that they deserved a bid. It's simply unfair." "I was empty inside," Davis said. "We had our chance, but instead of making it so they couldn't turn us down, those two losses put it in their hands, and they decided we didn't be­long." 

inning. The Irish capitalized on many Bowling Green's mis­takes. Their four runs were scored without the benefit of a hit. Instead, walks, sacrifices, errors and hit batters gave them the victory. Miller notched the win for the Irish on the mound. 
In the 5-0 win against Indiana State, the Irish exploded in the third inning for five runs to seal the win and advance to the finals. Crossen, Boulac, Folsom and freshman Christy Connoyer 
Debbie Boulac all contributed RBis, while Linn the Irish to their 1-0 win and Alford combined their against Temple. Boulac's RBI efforts on the mound for the triple in the fourth inning drove win. in the only run of the game, but In the championship game, 
that was more than enough for three Irish errors resulted in all junior Missy Linn. Linn shut out three Panther runs. Still, Notre the Owls with consistent pitch­Dame had a chance at victory, ing and a solid defense behind rallying from a 3-1 deficit in the her. seventh inning to put one run 
At the Sycamore Classic across and have the tying run at hosted by Indiana State, Notre third with one out. But Panther Dame finished 2-2 in the pre­pitcher Chris Koehl struck out liminary rounds. The Irish lost the next two batters to end the to the host Sycamores and game. Eastern Illinois while defeating Looking ahead, the Irish face Bowling Green and Indiana Bowling Green in a double­State to advance to the cham­header on Wednesday, March pionship game. There, Notre 20. On Friday, March 22, the Dame lost a 3-2 rematch to softball team opens its home Eastern Illinois. season with a doubleheader 
The team beat Bowling Green against Midwestern Collegiate 4-2 with four runs in the last Conference foe Loyola. 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Tagliabue 
"I think we can de-politicize the game by removing it from controversial issue that has become a national issue," he said. 
That issue is the rejection by Arizona voters of a paid ..'""-'-"'-'• honoring Martin Luther King, turned down by 60,000 votes November. · 
League owners will vote later this week on changing the site of marquee game, awarded last year to Phoenix-on the "'"~'""'~' Tagliabue said, that the holiday would be approved. 
and Monica Seles, . l tanking; advl!-uped to the quarterfinals al Player~ Championships with straight-set vi who lost her top rariidil~·;o Seles last week, beat 6-0, 6-1. GraJ has lost only seven games in her first 

Seles won the final nine games in beating Florencia Labat 7-5, Yugoslavian will retain the No. 1 spot if she reaches ~.....r~,.,.,., regardless ofwhat Graf does. 
· Fifth-seeded Zina Garrison was upset by Mary Pierce of France 6-4; Pierce is ranked No. 122. · '<', ln men's play, fourth-seeded Guy Forget swept Jimmy Arias 6-1. 
and No.:to Michael Chang · to beat Henri Leconte 4-6, 6-3, 
~~~~~~m 
C» 
~TUDE NT 
GOYIRIIIIl 
is now accepting applications for 
COMMISSIONER POSITIONS 
during the 1991-92 school year. Applications can be picked up at the Secretaryls desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
** The deadline for submitting applications 
is 
Friday, March 22. 
Tuesday, March 19, 1991 The Observer 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday ACROSS 25 Shrewd 57 "Go~dnight 28 Testudinates 
3:30 p.m. Graduate seminar: "Studies of Transport 1"­32 Skyline feature 58 North, in Nice 
Perpetua,"
and Hoaction with Membranes," Theodore Tsotsis, pro­33 Advice from 
Idaho motto &ODryfossor. Univorsity of Southern California, Room 356 5 Felony Julia Child 
61 Grapevine
Fitzpatirck llall. Sponsored by chemical engineering. 10 Bundle of 35 Long.'s growth?
opposite
7 p.m. Film: "Spider's Stratagem," Annenberg Audito­cotton 
62 Positive
36 Shows scorn
rium, Snite Museum. 14 Pole, e.g. 
63 Division word 
40 Kipling's
7:30 p.m. Charismatic prayer meeting and Mass. Log 15Sir--de 
"Follow Me 64 Laurel et al. 
Coverley
Chap11l. 
" 
16 Anagram for &5Gaelic
8 p.m. University of Notre Dame spring band concert. 
41 Gaze intently 
rein
Directed by Luther Snavely and Father George 
42 More flirty Wiskirchen. Joyce Athletic Convocation Center. Hamlet 43 Most rubicund DOWN 9 p.m. Film: "Round Midnight." Annenberg Auditorium. soliloquy 46 Taper 
17 Start of a 1 Part of i.e. 
Snitfl Museum. 18 Choleric 47 Scrap for Rover 2 Keyhole 
9, 11 :15 p.m. Film: "White Palace." Carroll Audito­19 Chief 48 Geiberger and 
3 Ban 
rium. Saint Mary's College. 20 Refuses to Capone 
4 Char the steaks listen 49 Be oblivious 
5 "Valse--":
23 Sci. of plants 56 Helmond role _L_E_C_T_U_R-ES-----------------24 Bro's sibling on TV Sibelius & Caesar's hour 7 Word from Major Hoople 
Tuesday ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Entertain 9 Stevenson's 
2:30 p.m. Seminar: "Degradation and Buckling of 
island 
Metal Tubes Under Cyclic Bending and External Pres­sure," Edmundo Corna, University of Texas, Austin, Room 11 Certain code 
29 Harold of silents 4& Chair repairers 53 Privy to 
258, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by aerospace and me­
12 Deceiver 30 Atelier item 49 Rent 54 "Take me to 
chanical engineering. 
13 "And by 31 Cubic meter 50 Army group --leader"
4 p.m. Second Lecture Series: "Tribute to the Blessed opposing ­
33 Stain 51 Drier than extra 55 Strays
Mother on the Feast of St. Joseph," Hesburgh Library them?": Hamlet 
34 Rocky peak sec 56 It's after avril 
Auditorium. · 
37 Above the 52 Former golfing 59 Actor Billy­
4 p.m. Life of the Mind Lecture Series: "The Universe 22 Douglas or 
ground floor great Tony WilliamsReflected in a Raindrop; the Circle and the Line," Esmee balsam 38 Heat, as milk 
Berlalta. professor. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's Col­25 Former fur 39 Drivel
baron
lege. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 44EI-, 
Answers to any three clues in this 
4:30 
p.m. The College of Science lecture series in 26 Froth legendary city puzzle are available by touch-tone mathematics: "Computation, Complexity, and Chaos," of riches phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Lenore Blum, University of California, Berkeley and Milles 28 Antler part 45 Sea raptor minute). College, 2nd Floor Computing Center and Mathematics Building. Sponsored by College of Science. 

4:30 
p.m. Biological science seminar: "Molecular Ge­THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON JAY HOSLER


SPELUNKER
netics of Pattern Formation in the Drosophila Eye," Taadmiri Venkatesh. University of Oregon, Galvin Life Science Center Auditorium. Sponsored by biological sci11nces. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey Irish Fried Flounder Eggs Foo Yung 
Calvin and Hobbes 
1 \\E.N<Q CN..\111'-1 \.\IS TOV'\El IS S?lP..S\-1\N<$ IN 1-\\J~G Ta DR"i .' 1""11£. l\JB, 8\JT 
r•--::--: T\1£ TOO~I'!I--'51£i\\00 I'IICl Wl>iiE.II. CI>P IS 0~.' 01-11\\'t. ~~ \Wt;R't;.S ~o t'\'CS"S~'i'«IIN! 



Sports 

By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre .Dame men's swim team rewrote virtually its entire record book this season. 
The Irish set 17 university records at the National Catholics in December and continued their record-setting trend at the Eastern Intercollegiate Championships March 6-9. Four relay records and nine individual records fell-including one tie-as the Irish moved up a notch from their third-place finish in 1990. 
Southern Illinois captured first with 772 points, while Notre Dame rallied over Duke and St. Bonaventure to finish second with 546 points. The Blue Devils and the Bonnies followed close behind with West Virginia rounding out the top five. 
Sophomore Ed Broderick highlighted Irish performances with double wins and record­setting times in the 200 individual medley 
(1:50.94) and the 200 breaststroke (2:03.01). Broderick's breast time set a new meet record, 
see MEN/ page 17 

The Observer/Kenneth Osgood Raghib "Rocket" Ismail finished second in the 55-meter dash at the 1991 NCAA Indoor Championships. Details on page 17. 

By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore Tanya Williams and the senior women led the Notre Dame swim team to a second place finish at the Eastern Intercollegiates held March 6-9 at Cleveland State University. 
Williams' winning times in the 200 individual medley (1:49.36) and 400 medley (4:27.85) broke meet records and assisted the Irish in tallying 595 points behind first place West Virginia's 651 points. St. Bonaventure scored 444 points ahead of Southern Illinois, Cleveland State, N.C. Wilmington, University of Maryland-Baltimore County, Duke, George Washington and Rutgers. 
Since Williams already qualified for NCAA's, she didn't rest for Easterns, but she raced against rested swimmers who were trying to qualify for NCAA's. 
"Tanya demonstrated what an outstanding athlete she is. She faced an extremely stiff challenge, accepted that challenge and won," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. 
The senior wotnen also contributed to Notre Dame's success at Easterns. Senior Amy Tri placed 
Observer File Photo sixth in the 400 IM behind freshman Kristin Heath Senior Amy Tri placed sixth in the 400 individual medley at the Eastern lntercollegiates to help lead the Irish to a second-place finish. 
see WOMEN I paQe 15 
Hockey loses to Seawolves in tourney final 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team experienced a roller coaster of sorts when it traveled to the Jeep/Eagle Independent Tour­nament in Alaska two weekends ago. 
One the one hand was a gritty, 4-3 win over Alaska­Fairbanks, which was on track to be the independent represen­tative in the NCAA Tournament. On the other hand, the Irish got bombed 10-2 by Alaska­Anchorage on Saturday night when it was staking its claim to the NCAA bid that Fairbanks vacated. 
The championship game of the tournament started on a good note for the Irish, as they jumped out to a 1-0 lead on a Lou Zadra goal 5:40 into the game, on assists by David Bankoske and·Dan Sawyer. 
Notre Dame and Anchorage traded scores over the next three minutes, and then Anchorage took a one-goal lead with five minutes left in the first period. The two teams then played evenly until, with seven minutes left in the second stanza, the flood gates opened. 
Alaska-Anchorage bom­barded Irish goalie Greg Louder with 32 shots in just the second and third periods, and Louder wasn't able to withstand the onslaught. Anchorage scored seven unanswered goals in the last 27 minutes of play, and the Notre Dame season ended with a 10-2 defeat. 
"They were bigger and stronger," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "They flexed their muscles and that was it." 
While the Irish were pretty much out of the NCAA Tournament going into the weekend, Anchorage knew a strong performance would propel them into the tour.ney. 
"They were playing for a berth in the national tourna­ment," said Schafer. "If they hadn't won that game, 
Fairbanks probably would have gone. Circumstances were such that they were an inspired hockey team." 
The previous night's game, against Alaska-Fairbanks was something different, however. The Irish jumped out to a quick lead and never looked back, although they did have to weather a strong run by the Nanooks to escape with a 4-3 victory. 
Notre Dame wing Lou Zadra, who was named to the All­Tourney Team, scored the first of his two goals just four min­utes into the game to give the Irish a 1-0 lead, and Tom Miniscalco added another goal for Notre Dame with 7 112 minutes left in the period to in­crease the lead to 2-0, before Fairbanks, Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer's previous team, could get on the board. 
After left-wing Wade 
see HOCKEY I page 17 
.. 
• 

