
vJ-3. #83 
VOL. XXIII NO. 83 THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

What the typical American soldier wears and carries while on maneuvers in the Persian Gulf region. TOTAL COST: $1,452.10 
•
Desert helmet $103.00 Helmet cover $2.50 Desert hat $4.90 
·--------·­
Field pack $35.75 Back frame $23.85 Shoulder straps $5.30 Strap pad $11.30 Sleeping bag $64.25 
Overgarment $68.15 Overshoe $8.70 Glove set $7.85 
1 
Helmet cover $3.55 ; Mask $120.00 ! Mask hood $8.60 j Atropine kit $14.00 i Detector kit $49.07 
• ALSO: Fragmentation vest $251.50 Body armor cover $24.65 
Source: U.S. Army 
n
esert coat $15.48 uspenders $6.95 rown undershirt $2.40 ight parka $28.70 
Parka liner $11.85 Neckerchief $4.10 
M16 rifle $475.00 
Two-quart canteen $5.45 Canteen cover $8.75 Belt $6.60 Small arms case $4.30 Tool carrier $2.00 First aid case $3.35 
--II 
Desert trousers $14.40 Drawers $1.50 Night trousers $19.50 
AP/T. Dean Caple 
Gulf ground war begins 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -Iraqi tanks and troops, some faking surrender, smashed into Saudi Arabia's northeast corner and seized an empty border town early Wednesday in "hellacious" fighting with American and allied forces. 
1\velve U.S. Marines were re­ported killed in the heaviest combat of the 2-week-old war -the first Americans killed in ground action. Saudi and other allied losses were described as light, Iraqi casualties as heavy. 
The U.S. military said much of the Iraqi advance had been beaten back by U.S. airpower, Marines and allied troops. 
But as the bloody day wore on toward midnight, Iraqi forces still held the town of Khafji, on the Persian Gulf, and Marines and Saudi troops mounted a counterattack to re­take it. 
Saudi light armored forces reached the center of Khafji, but the Marines pulled back under heavy Iraqi rocket fire. Iraqi fire continued on into Thursday morning, indicating the allied attack had not yet succeeded. 
Twenty-four hours earlier, when the Iraqi columns first struck from Kuwait, some ad­vancing T-55 tanks had their guns facing rearward, a sign of 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Khafji skirmishes I page 4 War objectors I page 5 
Palestinians I page 5 CNN finances I page 5 
surrender, but the Iraqis then opened fire, the Marines re­ported. 
The Iraqi thrust may have been designed to punish Marine units that have repeatedly shelled Iraqi positions just in­side Kuwait, and possibly to provoke a wider, longer-term battle, a ground conflict for which U.S. commanders are still preparing. 
Baghdad radio told the Iraqi people their army's first push into Saudi territory -"the kingdom of evil"-was "wiping out" the "forces of the tyrants." 
Meanwhile, as Baghdad sought to boost Iraqi morale, the Desert Storm allies were giving an upbeat new appraisal of the air war's impact. For one 
thing, they said, Iraqi air 
defenses were now a shambles. 
Jordanian officials protested to the United States that its warplanes were bombing civil­ian traffic on the Iraqi highway leading to the Jordan border. Four Jordanians and an Egyp­tian were killed Wednesday, they said, corroborating earlier reports by refugees of continual air strikes on non-military traffic. 
In other developments, more Iraqi planes and a damaged Iraqi warship limped to the safety of Iran on Wednesday. And the Iraqis reportedly de­ployed missile launchers facing Turkey and unleashed another oil spill in the gulf -waters where Marines might soon storm ashore. 
In a surprise visit to Saudi Arabia, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak joined with King Fahd in promising Iraqi President Saddam Hussein an immediate cease-fire if he an­nounces Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait. It echoed a similar joint U.S.-Soviet statement issued in Washington Tuesday. 
The Iraqi attack on the Khafji sector, mounted in four sepa­rate advances along a front stretching from the gulf shore 
see WAR I page 6 

Death toll reaches 19 as troops pull out of Lithuania 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) -troops were sent partly to pro­troops had been withdrawn. negotiations with the Kremlin, Lithuania cannot back away Truckloads of Soviet troops left tect non-Lithuanian residents, His statement followed an but Soviet soldiers still were oc­from its 9-month-old indepen­Lithuania's capital Wednesday, mostly Russians, from discrim­announcement by President cupying the television center dence declaration, but "our re­but republic President Vytautas ination. In response, Lithuanian Bush on Tuesday that Soviet of­and other buildings seized vio­lations with the Soviet Union Landsbergis said many sites lawmakers on Wednesday pro­ficials assured him they were lently in mid-January. have to be regulated, even after remained occupied and warned posed a law guaranteeing eth­reducing the military presence "It is regrettable that the these bloody events, and we are the West not to be taken in by nic minorities the right to speak in the region and planning to promises of the Soviet leader­ready to talk," he said. Kremlin promises. their language alongside start talks. ship are so often broken ... Lithuanian officials said wit­
The civilian death toll in the Lithuanian. Responding to Bush's an­brutally," Landsbergis told nesses reported seeing troops crackdowns in Lithuania and The law could remove a point nouncement that Moscow had journalists at his office. withdraw from Vilnius, but had Latvia rose to 19 Wednesday of contention surrounding the conveyed a willingness to "This is why the United States no confirmation any had actu­when Jonas Tautkus, 20, died crackdown. "move away from violence," should not be satisfied that it ally left the republic. from a gunshot wound to the Soviet Interior Minister Boris Landsbergis said the United has received promises once Witnesses said they saw 30 to head he suffered at a military Pugo said all paratroopers al­States should be wary of Soviet again. Soviet military forces 40 troop-carrying trucks drive checkpoint Tuesday. One sol­ready have left the Baltic promises. have not yet withdrawn from Tuesday night from a base dier also has died. region and two-thirds of the He said a troop withdrawal occupied buildings of the 
Military officials said the "black beret" Interior Ministry could be the key to renewed Lithuanian state," he said. see BALTICS I page 6 

Notre Dame graduate saves drowning child in Saudi Arabia 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
and dove down after the child. News Editor "I had my flotation device on so I just held the kid up by his 
Lt. j.g. James Goebel, a 1988 torso," Goebel said. "When we Notre Dame graduate in got into shallow water, his Oat. aerospace engineering, distin­came out and took him." guished himself in Saudi Arabia The child was frightened but at an unlikely place--the not injured. beach. . "Goebel's alert response to an 
This pilot became a hero emergency situation prevented when he saved a small child at a possible tragedy as well as a beach in Jeddah, Saudi Ara­helped further excellent Saudi bia, according to an article in Arabia-U.S. relationships," Kennedy Korner, a publication stated the article. for the USS John F. Kennedy. On Jan. 1, Goebel went to the Mary Jane Goebel, James'James Ge2bel 
beach to swim and scuba dive mother, sent the article and a with three other officers from shouting, 'Swim! Swim!' but the letter to Father Andre Leveille, the USS John F. Kennedy. While water was too rough and the rector of Cavanaugh Hall. strapping on his scuba gear, he boy wasn't a very strong She told him she has been noticed a small child struggling swimmer." praying to the Blessed Mary to in the water and panicking. As the child started drifting take care of her son. "So many 
"The kid was struggling into deep water, Goebel put on people are praying for him that 
AP Photo

against the tide and his father his mask and jumped in. "I I feel he can feel the strength Hanging Bush and mother were encouraging heard the woman scream and I from here." 

him from the shore." said Lt.  already had most of my scuba  Regarding her son's act of  Stephen Bundren displayed his displeasure with the war in the  
Barry Wilmore, who witnessed  gear on, so I started going after  bravery Mrs. Goebel wrote,  Middle East and President Bush by hanging a dummy of the presi­ 
the event and described it for  him," recalled Goebel.  "Jim said 'it was no big deal,'  dent on a stick. Bundren joined at least 2,000 others at a rally in  
Kennedy Korne~ "They were  He swam out about 50 feet  but we are very proud of him."  front of the Texas state capitol Saturday in Austin.  


page 2 Thursday, January 31, 1991
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Forecast lor noon. Wednesday, January 30. 
lines snow high temperalutes.

WEATHER REPORT 
FORECAST: 
Mostly sunny during the afternoon, highs around 25. Partly cloudy tonight wtih the lows around 15. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 46 4t Atlanta 58 56 Boston 46 34 Baghdad 55 42 Chicago 25 08 Dallas-Ft. Worth 68 26 Denver t7 00 Detrort 35 22 Honolulu 80 66 Houston 68 4 t Indianapolis 33 26 London 37 36 Los Angeles 63 48 Madrid 46 34 Miami Beach at 74 
Moscow 10 10 New York 50 43 Paris 34 30 Philadelphia 52 38 Portland, Ore. 43 24 Riyadh 69 53 Rome 55 28 St. Louis 32 18 San Francisco 64 44 South Bend 2 9 1 5 

-y"T'" COkl frOnt High Dretll8.iUt• t~ ~ Tokyo 50 36
0 Snowi)-Sl.lony f::) 
Washington,D.C. 57 45 

........ warm front ~ 
§ Ice ~ Cloudy Pt. 
......... Static. irOnt G t.ow pmss1.1re ·~ 
Cloudy 

~1990 Accu·Wea1her,lnc. 
Calculus not needed by this math klutz The natural log of "e" ------­is equal to "1." Okay... but what is "e?" My professor quickly re­sponded that "e" is a term used in calculus that represents an imag­inary number that is al­ways equivalent to 2.7. Ann Marie Okay, I said. But, who Hartman cares? Unfortunately for me, Day Editor Notre Dame does. ND believes in order for one of its students to receive a well-rounded education, they must first complete a calculus requirement. Ouch! Maybe I should go back to the beginning. My name is Ann Marie Hartman and I am a math klutz. I blame my parents for this. I think it is their fault that I have trouble making two and two equal four. I firmly believe that it is the math genes that Mom and Dad passed on to me that has hindered my understanding of the difference between multiplication and cosine. Math has always been a traumatic experi­ence for me. My high school math teachers will attest to this. Back in the days of ge­ometry, I couldn't start my homework unless I had my looseleaf paper, my sharpened pencils, and my box of Kleenex. It's no exaggeration when I say that each problem would put me through severe emo­tional strain. There were times my horne­work was so stained with tears of anguish that I was too embarrassed to hand it in. That's why I almost died when I enrolled at ND and found out that calc was a re­quirement. How did the directors of ND education lump calc into the same category of English, history, philo, and theo in devel­oping a well-rounded curriculum? If any­thing, calc has made me square. After two stress-filled semesters, several nervous breakdowns, and treatment for de­hydration due to tear-expulsion, this Ameri­can Studies major finally passed calculus. However, probably much to NO's chagrin, I am not sure I am the better for it. I am an aspiring journalist. I don't need calculus. I need to write, not differentiate. The only math I need to know is that re­quired in balancing my checkbook or counting the number of kids I might someday have. In the future, when someone asks me about the well-rounded education that I re­ceived at Notre Dame, I will reflect upon my classes that were both in and outside of my major. I will philosophically respond with a quote from Socrates, make an allusion to the Bible. and support these with my in-depth knowledge of a historical event. But as far as calculus goes and how taking calc has affected my life...I'll be able to say that I prefer Puffs Plus with lotion to the regular Kleenex. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  
Today's Staff: News Prod1.1ct1onChristine Walsh Cheryl Mosar SystemsFrank Rivera Ann Buff Cesar Capella Brian Staijer Accent ViewpointShonda Wilson DaveCerto GraphicsMichael Whitman Rich Riley Patrick Midden Kristen McDonald Sports BusinessDave Dieteman Colleen Gannon Circulation Alicia Reale Chris Hanety Scoreboard Rich Riley Lu MedeirosMark McGrath The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


TODAY RT R GLRNCE 

NRTIONRL WORLD 
Montana reps to vote on MLK holiday Norwegians attend Olav V's funeral 
•HELENA, Mont. (AP) -•osLO, Norway (AP) -Royalty and statesmen from 
A Montana House 
100 countries attended the funeral today for King Olav committee approved V. Black-clad horsemen, bands and military honor legislation Wednesday that guards led the cortege from the palace where Olav's would create a state body had lain in state since his death Jan. 17 to the holidayhonoring the Lutheran cathedral. Olav, 87, had been the world's old­Rev.Martin Luther King Jr., est reigning monarch and Norway's "people's king" for setting the stage forHouse 33 years. It was echoed throughout the country, and debate on the measure Friday. followed by a minute of silence that brought traffic to a Montana is one of onlythree halt in some cities. Hundreds of people gathered in states without a front of the palace through the afternoon, holding holidayrecognizing the slain candles and flowers in the snow and waiting for a civil r-ights leader. The others: Arizona and New glimpse of the new king, Olav's son, Harald V Hampshire. The bill, passed by the state Senate last week, was approved 12-7 by the House State Administration Committee. If endorsed by the House this week, the bill would face a final vote Monday before Black leaders call for end to attacks being sent to Gov. Stan Stephens, who has expressed no •DURBAN, South Africa (AP) -Black leaders opposition to the legislation. Nelson Mandela and Mangosuthu Buthelezi have called 
for a cease-fire between their warring followers and said black factional fighting must end if apartheid is to be defeated. The two, looking pleased and happy, an­nounced the accord late Tuesday after nine hours of
Eisner receives $1 0.5 million bonus 
talks between Mandela's African National Congress and•oRLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Walt Disney's chairman and Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party. It was the firstchief executive officer was paid $11.25 million in 1990, meeting between the leaders in almost 30 years. "Weaccording to a proxy statement mailed to shareholders call on all people of the ANC and IFP ... to cease all
this week. Michael Eisner's salary only came to 
attacks with immediate effect," said a joint statement$750,000, but he received a $10.5 million bonus. In the read by Mandela after the talks. 
1989 fiscal year, he was paid $9.5 million. Disney's annual report, also sent to shareholders this week, did not include a percentage increase or decrease in attendance at its theme parks. Eisner, in a letter to 

OF INTEREST 
•The 
Hispanic-American Organization will •WSND-FM is accepting applications for the hold its first meeting of the spring semester tonight in position of Station Manager. Submit a resume and ar­Farley Hall at 7:30p.m. range for an interview prior to February 4, 1991. Direct 

all applications and questions to Lisa McMahon, 283­

•Counseline. 
a service of the University Coun­4230 or 239-7342. seling Center for the ND/SMC community, will hold an organizational/training meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in •A BACCHUS meeting will be held tonight at 7 Room 300 of the Counseling Center. p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/JANUARY 30, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
186.02 {} 2.65
226.79 Million 

ON THIS DRY IN HISTORY 
n In 1865: Gen. Robert E. Lee was named commander-in-chief of the Confederate armies. n In 1917: Germany served notice it was beginning a policy of unrestricted submarine warfare. n In 1945: U.S. Army Pvt. Eddie Slovik was shot by an Ameri­can firing squad in France, becoming the only American soldier since the Civil War to be executed for desertion. n In 1990: McDonald's Corp. opened its first fasHood restaurant in the Soviet Union, in Moscow's Pushkin Square. n Ten years ago: Poland's independent trade unionists reached a compromise with the government, winning concessions on a five-day work week and gaining greater access to the national media. 


l~V 
The Observer 

Thursday, January 31, 1991 page 3 


Economic indicators show slight growth 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government's chief economic barometer rose a slight 0.1 percent in December, the first increase in six months, and what one analyst said was "a faint ray of light" the recession could end by midyear. 
Many economists agreed that the Commerce Department's Index of Leading Economic Indicators, released Wednes­day, suggested that the con­traction will not deepen, though they cautioned it was no harbinger of sudden recovery. 
"It indicates only that we're through the worst of the down­turn," said economist Allen Si­nai of the Boston Co. "It does not tell us the bottom is in sight" although "it is a faint ray of light in terms of second-half recovery." 
AMERICAN 

CANCER 
• SOCIETY~~
+ 




London $21 9 Madrid $264 
Paris $259 Rome $264 Frankfurt $2 6 4 Sched~!ed c<w e•s1 Book anyt1me1 Fares 1 2 AT frvr7". Ch1cago Some re­strlct,ons apply On·tl1e·spot ra1l· passes lntl Student I D cards. youth hostel passes v.ork and study pro· grams Call tor FREE Travel Catalog 



~~<bOmS< 
Ch1cago. jL 60610 
312·951·0585 




LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY OPEN SKATING 
8:00-9:30PM MIDNIGHT-1:30AM 

SKATE RENTAL 50 CENTS 

ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
Six of the 11 forward-looking components of the index had positive showings in December. They included higher stock prices, a longer average work­week and orders for new plants and equipment. 
Other positive contributors were an improvement in an in­dex measuring consumer confi­dence, a decline in initial unemployment claims and an increase in unfilled orders at factories. 
Negative contributors were fewer factory orders for con­sumer goods, a decline in building permits, faster busi­ness delivery times, a drop in prices of raw materials and a decline in the money supply. 
Economist Robert Dederick of the Northern Trust Co. in 


ND junior to attend national conference 


~.. 
Z>tUt't~ we ~fUtlt ~S7U'D'.t 
2/a~~l 
Happy Belated Birthday Love~ Mom & Dad 


THIS FRIDAY 
Chicago concurred that the re­port "should not be taken as an argument that the economy is in the process of bottoming out" but "it is further support for the mild recession sce­nario." 
Government economists, both in the administration and on Capitol Hill, have said the re­cession will be shorter and milder than the average down­turn since World War II, ending sometime during the second or third quarters. 
President Bush said in his State of the Union message Tuesday night that while "the largest peacetime economic ex­pansion in history has been temporarily interrupted ... we will get this recession behind us, and return to growth ­soon." 

White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater greeted the lead­ing indicators report as "encouraging news." 
Separately, an 11-member panel of bank economists assembled by the American Bankers Association predicted on Wednesday the recession would be over by summer, if ­as the group expects -the Federal Reserve allows interest rates to decline further and the Persian Gulf War does not in­terrupt oil supplies. 
"For the first time this cen­tury, America is being hit by a double whammy-the simulta­neous onset of a recession and war," said panel chairman Sung Won Sohn of Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. 
the opportunities available in the environmental field. The conference also will feature a career fair representing more than 40 non-profit, corporate and governmental organiza­tions. 
All students who are nomi­nated to the conference also will be eligible for paid, profes­sional intern positions during the summer of 1991. 
The conference is sponsored by the CEIP Fund Inc. (formerly the Center for Environmental Intern Programs). an organiza­tion which places more than 300 individuals each year in short-term professional posi­tions in the environmental field. 



GCAG plans white cross planting 
Special to The Observer 
A short cross planting cer­emony sponsored by Notre Dame's Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAG) will be the main feature of a demon­stration against the Gulf War Friday (Feb. 1) at 12: 15 
p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
The demonstration is one 
of a nationwide series of 
similar events sponsored by 
the National Network of 
Campuses Against the War. 
Students will plant white 
crosses inscribed with esti­
mated fatality figures from 
each of the nations involved 
in the two-week-old war. 
Emphasizing that very little 
is known about casualties 
and damages resulting from 
the war, GCAG organizers 
hope also to draw attention 
to the military censorship 
which has obstructed war 
reporting thus far. 
At the demonstration, a 
blood drive planned for Feb. 
13 will be announced and 
white arm bands, symbolic 
of hope for a peaceful reso­
lution of the war, will be 
sold. Proceeds from the sale 
will go to the International 
Red Cross or some other or­
ganization aiding refugees 
and victims of the war. 
In addition, there will be a candlelight procession beginning at 6:30 p.m., with an assembly beneath the flagpole on the University's South Quad. The procession will end with a prayer for 
peace at the Grotto, where a candle will be lit for all of the victims on both sides of the war and their families. 
The ceremony will be fol­lowed by a prayer vigil at the Grotto which will continue until 7 a.m., Saturday, Feb. 2. One female dorm and one male dorm from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have been asked to have participants there for each hour. 
Special to The Observer 
Ana Elisa Vega, a Notre Dame junior from El Paso, Texas, has been selected to attend the second National Minority Environmental Career Conference in Oakland, Calif., March 2-5. 
Vega, a preprofessional major in the College of Science, is one of 150 undergraduate and graduate students who will participate in the conference. She was selected from a pool of more than 600 applicants. 
The conference is designed to introduce students of color to 



OPERATION DESERT STORM 

Thursday, January 31, 1991
page 4 


Strong points Coastal batteries are blasted by air bombardment Heavy helicopters carry or sabotaged by Navy 
troops and weapons inland to leap-frog 


Defenders Iraq will have dug-in infantry. tanks and guns covering the beach 
0 
0 

Amphibious armored vehicle usable from ship to shore and on land; carries 25 fully equipped Marines~ 1 
0 

Spotters judge fall of shot~-----~~~~ 
and advise ship by radio USS WI8CC>nefn 
using superimposed grid 
for corrections. 
over beach defenses 
T 
LCACs 
Air-cushion landing 
craft, fast and maneuverable, 
carry troops and medium 
tanks through surf and onto 

'"'"'""~ 
~~ 
Amphibious landing of.....­ground forces 

Sourcas: U.S. Oapt. of Defense: Jane's Fighting Shii)S; Jane·s All the World's Aircraft; Ships and Aircraft of the U.S. Fleet; Modem 
The huge mother ship for the attack 
is a bit smaller than an aircraft 
carrier, and transports over 1 ,700 
Marines and their equipment to the 
attack. Up to 35 helicopters and 
Harrier jets operate from the flight 
deck. LCACs and other amphibious 
craft launch from the stern docking 
well. One Tarawa-class ship does 
the job of three older types. 
APrr. Dean Caple, Martha P. Hernandez and Pat Lyons 

Skirmishes reported in border town 
DHAHRAN. Saudi Arabia (AP) -The oil town of Khafji, site of Wednesday's border fighting, has been the scene of periodic skirmishes since the start of the Gulf War. 
In peaceful times, the town of 20,000 was a major crossroads and vacation spot. But most residents evacuated the city at the opening salvo, including dozens of firemen who fled in lime-green fire engines that now sit at a highway gas stop more than 60 miles to the south. 
Mter Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, thousands of Kuwaitis, including most of the emirate's government, fled south through Khafji into Saudi Arabia in long lines of Mercedes and BMWs. 
The border area was opened from time to time in the ensu­ing months, and lines miles long would form as Kuwaitis who had stayed in their homes decided to flee. 
Reporters who visited Khafji earlier this week found a ghost town of shuttered shops and deserted streets. Only a few Saudis and soldiers from the coalition were seen. It was a town of stray dogs and wander­ing livestock. 
Once-flourishing businesses were chained tight: car agen­cies, garages specializing in four-wheel-drive Toyotas and Nissans. restaurants for Kuwait-to-Damman travelers and general stores. 
Stoplights blinked unnoticed. Lush gardens at wealthier homes had started to wither. 
Twelve days ago, an Iraqi rocket hit a storage tank at the company's refinery, billowing thick black smoke over the town for more than a week. 
Khafji is also the site of a major water desalinization plant, idle since war began. 
In normal times, the city is a summer meeting place for Saudi and Kuwaiti families who camp in the desert outside the city for weeks, barbecuing, playing Frisbee and socializing. 
Attack Aircraft; Modem Combat Helicopters. Additional research by Pete Yost and Elise Rosen. 
CNN 
continued from page 5 

programming vice president, Robert Stengel, said in a state­ment that "we believe that many companies in the cable industry would be willing to offset some of the enormous expense that CNN has in­curred" in covering the war and the buildup for it. 
,f., 
CNN president Tom Johnson said the network spent about $10 million from August through December, covering Persian Gulf developments prior to the war. 
The heavy coverage by CNN and the broadcast networks began on Aug. 2, when Iraqi troops invaded and seized Kuwait, and continued amid the massive buildup of U.S. and allied troops in the region. The war began on Jan. 16. 

S~&;4'R 1?'1t;41J& 
~~ & 7~ Sa.but, 328 1/2 Dixie W.N: Roseland 
277-1934 Its Time to Think Spring! Tan Early Far Spring Break 30 sessions Far $55 
Smaller Pkgs Available 
Call For A . 277-1934 D en 6 Da sA week 




New group offers support to objectors 
-_.-:.-1­
OPERATION DESERT STORM

Thursday, January 31, 1991 page 5 
SPECIAL SCREENING . 
DISTANT VOICES, STILL LIVES 
A FILM CHRONICLING THE LIVES 
i 

OF A LIVERPOOL WORKING CLASS FAMILY
I 
t--­
1 

TONIGHT 7:00 PM
1­

COLIN MACCABE, HEAD OF REASEARCH AT THE BRITISH FILM INSTITUTE, AND EXECUTIVE PRODUCER OF THE FILM WILL BE PRESENT FOR A DISCUSSION AFTER THE SCREENING. 
'------·----------. 

~-~---PEERING THROUGH THE BLACKNESS OF A BATTLEFIELD AT NIGHT 
____....____ ­

Soldiers, sailors and air crews who must see and fight in the dark use complex night sighting equipment that makes the most of dim or infrared light. 
a 
U.S. leads in night sighting The U.S. and its allies are said to have the best low-light and infrared sighting gear in the world, such as these Holographic One­Tube light amplifying goggles. This 
equipment gives the coalition a major edge over Iraq in night battles. 
By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
The Office of Campus Min­istry has begun a program to assist students with concerns about obtaining conscientious objector status should Opera­tion Desert Shield render a military draft necessary. 
Recent student inquiries as well as concerns voiced by the Campus Ministry staff led to the initiation of the program. 
"We have about 25 people al­ready," said Father Tom Mc­Dermott, a member of the Campus Ministry staff. He added that he expects even more interest once more stu­dents become aware that such a program exists. 
"We are not trying to make people conscientious objec­tors." said McDermott. "We are simply helping those who think they might be (conscientious objectors) and those who are confused about the situation." 
Students who approach Cam­pus Ministry about this matter are counselled individually by faculty members and all con­versations are kept confiden­tial. The conversations are in­tended to clarify issues and to help the student in conscience formation. 
According to McDermott, 40 members of the faculty are prepared to discuss the situa­tion with concerned students. The Office of Campus Ministry will start a ftle on each student as a record of his current thoughts and feelings on the is­sue. 
"Since there is currently no military draft. you cannot be a conscientious objector now," explained McDermott. But if the draft is instated, the files will become useful to the stu­dents, he said. 
"Because the Catholic Church is not traditionally known as a peace church like the Quakers or the Amish. it is helpful if a person is recording his thoughts now so that if he has to make a case for himself later, he can prove he has been thinking about it for some time," said McDermott. 
McDermott said that while the Catholic Church does rec­ognize "just war" there are "reasons from the gospel and teachings from modern coun­cil" which, depending upon their interpretation, can effec­tively support a case for con­scientious objection. 
For those who simply want to learn more about the issues surrounding Operation Desert Storm. Campus Ministry is sponsoring a series of speakers and discussions, added Mc­Dermott. 
The first of the weekly ses­sions is scheduled for Feb. 7. 

Infrared light cannot be seen by the human eye, but almost everything emits some, even in pitch dark. An electronic sensor "sees" the infrared and shows a matching LED display of visible light to the user. Infrared brightness of objects is related to their 
temperature, so it helps spot warm things like motors and people. 
AP!Martha P. Hernandez 
Palestinians under strict curfew 
BETHLEHEM, Occupied West speaking on condition of Bank (AP) -A strictly enforced anonymity. curfew backed by armored per­The curfew already has taken sonnel carriers has paralyzed a heavy toll, especially on the life in the occupied lands, leav­Palestinian economy that has ing many of the 1.7 million been bled dry by the frequent Palestinians broke, afraid and general strikes and curfews of short-tempered. the uprising. 
The army imposed the curfew About 100,000 Palestinians right after fighting in the Per­have been cut off from day la­sian Gulf broke out Jan. 17. bor jobs in Israel that were After two weeks, it is the their only source of income. longest curfew since the 1967 Many Palestinians used up Middle East war -even in the their savings during the revolt. Palestinians' three-year-old Maen Atta, a 29-year-old uprising against occupation. Bethlehem resident, said he 
had to borrow $150 from a 
It keeps people in the West cousin to buy food and clothes Bank and Gaza Strip cooped up for his newborn daughter, in their homes, except for Duha, because he cannot get to respites of a couple hours, two his job at a Jerusalem printing or three times a week. Then plant. they are allowed out to shop, but sometimes find stores run­But borrowing is no longer an ning short of necessities. option because his relatives are 
On Wednesday, a Palestinian just as broke, he said. "I think who violated the curfew was that if the curfew continues, the shot dead by Israeli troops in results will be severe. Instead the Gaza Strip Maghazi refugee of fighting for freedom. people camp. The military said the will fight for food to survive," man, Ibrahim Abu Jalal, 29, Atta said. had resisted arrest, tried to There are no reports of peo­grab a soldier's weapon and ple going hungry since most was shot and killed during an Palestinians store large quanti­attempted escape. ties of flour and rice in their 
"We are worried the Pales­homes. Many also bought addi­tinians will try to create havoc tional canned goods and staples at the home front, and we are to prepare for the curfew. taking steps to protect our­The U.N. Relief and Works selves," an army official said, Agency, which assists Pales-
Amplifying dim light 

r---~~;.:;-,:;;:;;~~ 
Low-light sighting equipment captures reflected visible light too dim for the unaided human eye to see clearly, and electronically displays a brightened image somewhat like the viewfinder on a home video camera, with magnification. 
Infrared in total darkness 
Electronics and LEOs 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRI 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
------------------=--~~~============~ 
~ Pre-game pec1 ~ ~for all men's and womenls\CY 
~ 
~ 

NO Basketball games 
Q9
1 MEAL FULL PRICE
.'<Y' 

COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE!
6D....._;••".,
PASTA DISHES lASAGNA FETTUCINE ALFREDO MANICOTTI 
=k~~H 
CACCIATORE 

~ ..~t!~l~
COCKTAILS BEER •WINE Dinner 4PM-11PM BANQUET OPEN SUN & Clo•ed Mon Ristorante•• 

ROOM Please present~h~sg. 232•4244 coupon when ordering South 01 Norr. Dames· Golden Dome 
1412 South Bend Avenue 


tinian refugees, has launched an emergency distribution of flour, oil and rice in particularly hard-hit areas. 
But many Palestinians report that during their shopping breaks they are finding short­ages of milk, bread and vegeta­bles because those producing them are stuck at home. 
Vegetables that are available are more expensive because they are brought in from Israel. For example, a crate of toma­toes went from $11 to $17.50 in Bethlehem. 
There are other, sometimes worse troubles. 
Tempers seem to be flaring in many households as people are trapped in their homes, often amid huge, extended families. 
In Gaza City, 15-year-old Fatmah Abu Amra said that in­stead of getting away outdoors, she has spent most of the last two weeks in a 54-square-yard shack with 15 relatives, includ­ing her parents, siblings, aunts and uncles. 
"My older brothers are hitting me all the time, and my father is shouting at my mother," Fatmah said, speaking by tele­phone. She added that even small children in the family. when they tried to go out and play, were chased inside by troops. 
(: 
I I I 
I 
I 
·J 
CNN may charge viewers for Gulf coverage costs 
NEW YORK (AP) -CNN, facing up to $4 million in costs this month for its round-the­clock Persian Gulf War cover­age, is discussing with cable operators a temporary and vol­untary surcharge to help pay the bills. 
Sources within the cable TV industry who insisted on anonymity said CNN, which serves 56.7 million U.S. homes and offices, might seek up to seven cents a subscriber for up to six months. if the war lasts that long. 

Michael Oglesby, a spokesman for CNN's parent Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., in Atlanta, on Wednesday said he could not go beyond CNN's Jan. 24 statement on the matter. 
In it, CNN said that despite coverage costs for the war, Turner Broadcasting has "no intention" of increasing the ba­sic rate it charges cable opera­tors. 
But TBS has had "joint dis­cussions with a small number of cable operators about help­ing to underwrite the network's intensive coverage of the war," the statement said. "Those dis­cussions have focused solely on voluntary financial initiatives that the operators may want to make." 
A spot check of major cable systems was inconclusive. Michael Luftman. a spokesman for American Television and Communications Corp., owned by Time Warner, Inc., said no extra-fee requests have yet been made by CNN. 
At Continental Cablevision, the nation's fourth-largest ca­ble operator, spokesman Henry James said that the company had been discussing with CNN the latter's proposal, but he did not know if cost figures were discussed. 
However, Continental's senior 
see CNN 1page 4 

Thursday, January 31, 1991 The Observer page 6 
I'
:l 
~ 
i' 
[ 
i, 
I 
} 
I 
f 
~ 
I 
I 
tion in the Baltics that could propaganda against Lithuania reverse recent gains in East­and the other Baltic states, he
Student Activities helps 
West relations, an official said. would not say the Cold War is "Everything is on hold. The over.... By supporting the 
Baltics 
continued from page 1 

world is watching," a U.S. of­Baltics very strongly, (Bush)
to brighten February 
ficial quoted Quayle as saying. can help Gorbachev" fend off enough to have gotten tick­
north of Vilnius to an army air­The official spoke on condition pressure from hard-liners.
By ANN MARIE HART· 

field, then return empty to the of anonymity. Tautkus, the 20th casualtyets, a trip to Chicago to see 
MAN 

base. said Lithuanian In Washington, Bush told and an apparent draft-dodger. News Writer take place on Friday, as the hit "Shear Madness" will 
spokesman Aldrius Azubalis. Congress in his state-of-the­was shot because he refused to weil. 
Wednesday morning, two union address that the Kremlin get out of his car, Lithuanian The Student Activities Of­
columns totaling about 45 vehi­had made representations officials said. Military officials fice is offering Notre Dame On Saturday, flag football cles-including tanks. ar­"which, if fulfilled, would result said he was hit by a ricochet.
tournaments between
students the chance to kick 

mored personnel carriers, in the withdrawal of some The military crackdown be­those February blues 
dorms will take place at 

trucks and ambulances -left Soviet forces, a reopening of gan early in January whenStepan Field and the finals
before they start-by 

the base heading south toward dialogue with the republics and Soviet paratroopers were sentwill be played on Sunday.
hosting Winterfest 

the Byelorussian republic. a move away from violence." into the Baltics in a search for Weekend. 
Sign-up sheets for the 

Pugo told the newspaper However, Lithuanian govern­draft evaders. Troops stormed
teams will continueThe fun begins tonight 

Rabochaya Tribuna that "two­ment spokesman Povilas buildings in Lithuania on Jan.
through Friday. in the
with Beacon bowling. 

thirds of Interior Ministry Pauparas said late Wednesday: 13 and Latvia Jan. 20, leavingdorms.
Buses will depart from the 

troops were withdrawn by Jan. "We so far have gotten no of­19 dead. main circle at 9 p.m. and 
Finally. the gameshow 29.... One-third of these troops ficial information concerning Since then, Soviet forces have"Blizzard of Bucks" will be9:30p.m. Each game costs remain for the present, but as any removal of troops from seized the Lithuanianplayed Saturday at g p.m.

$1.25 and it will be a $1 calm is returning, they will not Lithuania from any source." newsprint warehouse, detainedin Theodore's. A series offor shoe rental. 

remain there forever." Officials in neighboring Latvia Western journalists, fired ongames will occur until oneLaFortune will host Fun 
In Oslo, Norway, Vice and Estonia said there were no civilian cars, closed customs Flicks II on Friday, where 
contestant is left. That 

President Dan Quayle met with immediate signs of troop stations and stopped cars and
individual will then bestudents can make their 

Soviet Vice President Gennady withdrawals. buses randomly at night,given a few seconds in a own music videos for free 
Yanayev and appealed to the Landsbergis said that if Bush apparently looking for draft­from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
tank to gather as many of 

Soviet leadership to avoid ac-could see first-hand the "war of dodgers and weapons.For those students lucky 
the 500 one dollar bills 
into a bag as he can. 

took place in Khafji itself. an rolled their T-55s up to the Jobbing artillery fire into the the Air Force's "tank killers"­oil-and-resort town of 20,000 border and said they wanted to advancing line. A-10 Warthog jets -swooped people abandoned since the on­defect. When an allied escort Eventually the two sides were
War 

down in repeated strikes at set of war. Just eight miles party arrived, the Iraqis opened locked in "pretty fierce street Iraqi armor, said a news pool south of the Kuwaiti border, it fire, the Marines said. fighting," said a Marine source
continued from page 1 

report from the front. was the focus of two Iraqi as­The Iraqis were first con­who asked not to be identified. Explosions of cluster bombs saults just before and just after fronted by troops from the tiny "It got pretty ugly, I'm told." 
25 miles west into the desert, 
and missiles reverberated midnight. gulf state of Qatar, a member of Marine riflemen said theirbegan late Tuesday south of through the darkness and past Front-line Marines told AP the Desert Storm coalition. units and the Iraqis exchanged Kuwait's al-Wafra oilfield, the correspondent Neil MacFar­Marine units then rushed to small-and heavy-arms fire for
U.S. military said. An estimated dawn. 
Some of the toughest fighting quhar that Iraqi tank crews Khafji's outskirts and began hours.
1,500 Iraqi troops and at least 50 tanks took part. 
Each thrust -by low-slung, · 1950s-style T-55 tanks or columns of Iraqi armored per­
ACALL FOR REFORM IN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH 
sonnel carriers -was repelled 
A Pastoral Letter from Catholics Concerned about Fundamental Renewal of our Church
by Marine and allied light ar­mor and infantry, and by U.S. 
I 
n 1990 we celebrate the 25th anniversary women and married men, including shared the experience of an ecumenically
warplanes and helicopters, the 
of the historic document of the Second resigned priests. ~o that the Euchanst open church at the local level.
U.S. military said. Vatican Council, "The Church in the mav contmue to he the center of the We call upon our church oflicials to
But the nighttime fighting, in Modern World" (Gaudium el Spes). spiiituallife of all Catholics. 
abarxlon their resistance on the remain­This document clearly turned the fitce of
freezing temperatures, was We see vcrv few instances where the ing diflerenccs that separate the 
the church outward.. and defined its agenda

"hellacious," said Marine Lt. people ofGod me allowed bv Church churches, and to translate the many
as service to the entire human community. 

authorities to participate in de~:isions thai results of their ecumenical dialogue 
Col. Cliff Myers. It stressed the importance or the laity bring­aflect their lives. Yet in 1970 Karol W~jtyla. commissions into serious concrete plansAs flares lit the desert floor, ing Christian values to society's dialogue now Pope John Paul II. wrote in his book, fi>r reunion. 
men of the 2nd Marine Division on pressing issues in the home. the The Acting Per.mn:workplace and Ihe political process. Today We sec the Vatican downl?rading the impor­
opened up on the attackers 
these issues include: "Anv authentic communitv is fi>undcd on tance of national hishops conferences. with TOW anti-tank rockets. pariicipation ... (Its structure) is correct
• a threatened environment; We affirm in the U.S. the collegial 
Cobra helicopter gunships and only if it admits that practi~:al eflective­
• 
growing poverty in a '"-UTid of alllucncc; and collahorati\C leadership stvlc of 

ness ofopposition ret\u ired hy 1he com­


• 
a plague ofdrug abuse reflecting deep the National Conlerence ofCitholic 


mon good and the rig 1t of participation:· 

despair; Bi~hops. and call upon the universal 
• scicntilic advancements confronting We calll{>r extensive consultation church to aiTim' this traditional and 
us with lile decisions without ethical with the Catholic people in develo,Jing cflcctivc exercise ofchurch leadership. principles to guide us; church teaching on human scxua ity, 
We sec the pain ofcountless people at
• the need to resolve conflicts among just as the U.S. his hops invited partici­

the closing of their parishes and schools 
nations. and groups within nations. p;.ttion in developing their teaching on 

throughout the United States. 
when the temptation to usc violence social justice fi>r the pastoral letters on 

has the potential ofdestroying our peace and economic justice. We call lor a process that allows all planet. those afkctcd to he heard rrom, and to
We sec the pope and the Roman Curia take part in these decisions. 

The church should he providing wisdom selecting bishops throughout the world and encouragement to believers to enter without mput from local churches. Yet as We sec many young adults and children 
the diak1guc on these issues. Unlilrlunatcly, stated in the Cologne Declaration of J9R9 of Catholic lamilics who arc reluctant today's church is crippled by its fitilurc to supported by hundreds of theologians to afliliatc with a ( "hurch thcv view address fundamental justice issues within from many nations, "The procedure of as authoritarian and hy1xx:ritical. its own institutional structures. II thus nomination is not some private choice We call f(Jr a fundamental change so 
hccomes a stumbling block hoth to its of the IX>pc's:· that young people will see and hear God 
own members and to society. 

living in and through the church <LS aWe claim our responsibility, lt~ 
We thercli.Jrc appeal to the institutional committed laity, religious and clergy, participatory community of believers church to rcf(Jrm and renew its structures. to participate in the selection of our who pmctice what they preach. We also appeal to all the people of God to local bishops. a time-honored tradition Twenty-five years ago Vatican II witness to the Spirit who lives within us, in the church. clarified the mission of"Thc Church in 
and to seck ways to serve the vision of the Modern World": to be a sign ofGod's
We sec groups marginalized in our church 

God in human society. saving work and a servant to the entire 
because of race and ethnic identity.Our call for rclorm covers many areas of 

human communitv. The world is wracked church life. We call for church leadership to speed by terrible problems-ecological JX:rils. pov­up the cnculturation of diverse peoples erty and inJustice. conflict and Violence.
We see women experiencing oppression, 

through new fom1s of liturgy, language li.J be a clearer sign and a better servant 
violence and inequality. Yet Vatican ll's and leadership drawn from the native 

to God's global fitmily, our church must"Church in the Modern World" expresses culture of the people. 
refilm! its own structures. We call on all respect for the fundamental rights of every 
We sec theologians silenced, constructive people within our church, in the spirit ofperson. and asserts that "every type of opposition condemned, loyalty oaths co-discipleship and co-responsibility, to use
discrimination is to he overcome and 

imposed and blind ohedience demanded. their imagination and creativity. For the
eradicated a~ contrary to God's intent:' world's sake. let us make the church more ~c call for open dialogue. academic 

We call upon church oflicials to fitithful to its miso;ion.
freedom, and due process.

incorporate women at all levels of l'k>a"' t•.-rt ht' lo duplicatr. ~ubticitt' and dis..,minote 
ministry and decision-making. We see church officials conducting tbi' document Send all inqunit•' to: 
<ALL FOR <HlJROI RUUR~I.Call to Action.
financial dealings in secret without 

We see many Catholics deprived of the WOO N.l.a•ndak-. <"h~ II. 6061K (.1121 611J-041MI.
accountability to the people.

church·s sacramental life because of the Calltn Action: la) people. rchgi<JU' and clergy working
declining number ofpriests. In particular, We call u1xm the church to become together In li,.;tcr pcacc.justice and kl\'c in nur world. 
our chun:h,and ou'"'Civ~ in the s11irit of\htican II
we sec Catholics dcmed regular access to a model of financial openness on all 

and :he 1976 Call to Action (U.S. CuOOiic llicentennial
the Eucharist, the center or our worship levels, including the V<ttican. Cnnl~rence l. and spiritual life. 
We sec stallcd'J1rogrcss hy our church Call to Action We call upon the Chur(h to discard the oflicials towar the reunilication oiThris­3900 N. Lawndale mcdicval discipline of mandatory priestly tian churches, even though countless Chicago, IL 60618 celibacy, and to open the priesthood to believers ofall denominatiOns have already (312) h04-0400 
r ------~--------------,
Tilke action' Complete this.fimnand mail immediate(\• ro: .4 C4 /./. HJR REfORM C a/Ito Action..W()(J N. l.awndale. Chicago II. ()I}(J/1{ (J/l) W4-fJ4()(1 1
I 0 I wish to add my signature to "A Call fi1r Refbrm in the Catholic Church:' HELP US GATHER I 0 I will help gather more names. Please send forms designed for multiple signatures. I 0 Check here fOr a Spanish translation of"A Call !Or Reform:· I100,000 SIGNATURES I I am enclosing il tax-dcductihlc donation of$ to help circulate this
1 statement to US. Catholk."S and to organize those who share this vision and these concerns. 1
IN SUPPORT OF 

CATI-IOLIC CHURCH I Name Phone I REFORM! I Address J I I
Cinema at the Snlte 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
L~---------~~---~----~
7:30 9:30 



Business 

Thursday, January 31, 1991 page 7 
Labor secretary nominee vows to train U.S. work force 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Labor secretary-designate Lynn Martin assured the Senate on Wednesday that President Bush did not nominate her to be a rubber stamp for the White House, and she vowed to pur­sue her predecessor's campaign to help women and minorities into the nation's top manage­ment ranks. 
At her confirmation hearing, Democrats praised her for vot­ing, as a Republican congress­woman from Illinois, to over­ride Bush's veto of two key la­bor bills -a minimum wage increase and rights for family and medical leave. 

But Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee members also wondered if her position might change as a member of the Bush Cabinet, or if she would be able to sway the White House. 
During the nearly three-hour hearing, Martin pledged to fo­cus on skills training, worker safety, pension law enforce­ment and equal opportunity should she take over the Labor Department. 
Committee chairman Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., praised Martin for her 1989 vote to override Bush's veto of a bill raising the minimum wage to $4.65. She also bucked the president on his veto of a bill to allow workers up to 12 weeks off for family and medical leave. Both vetoes were sus­tained. 
Martin "is the first and only secretary of labor ever to be nominated by a president, after having voted in Congress to override the president's veto on a critical labor issue," Kennedy said. 
Democrats and organized la­bor often complain that in a Republican administration, the labor secretary has little flex­ibility to help workers and in-

Lynn Martin 
stead, sides too often with big business. 
"I hope that you'll take the bit in your teeth and run with it, even though there may be some in the White House who are saying, 'slow down,' or are giving you static," said Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio. 
"I hope you'll say to them ... 

I'm not just going to be a polit­ical hack sitting in the job. Knowing of your past record, I know that won't be the case," Metzenbaum said. 
Sen. Paul Simon, D-111., who crushed Martin at the polls last November when she tried to unseat him, sat at her side dur­ing much of the hearing and recommended her for the job. In referring to Metzenbaum's concerns, Simon said: 
"Kind of the unstated ques­tion is, is Lynn Martin going to be an also-ran, just a rubber stamp for the White House? Or is she going to be a secretary of labor in the tradition of the giants?" Simon said. 
"I say as one who has fought her, worked with her, who has known her, she's going to be ... candid, she's going to be feisty, she's going to be a team player -don't worry about her too much -but within the 
administration where there are 
vacuums, I think she will move 
in and do an effective job,'' 
Simon said. 

Martin said training Amer­ica's work force would be a top priority.
. 

'Skills training may be the single most important task we under take and in fact, the most meaningful to the future of our country and its work force," her opening statement said. 
She vowed to continue former Labor Secretary Elizabeth's Dole initiative to break the "glass ceiling" that keeps women and minorities from ad­vancing beyond mid-manage­ment levels. 
"As a working parent, I am also committed to mothers and fathers in balancing work and family responsibilities," she said. 
Gulf war creates booming business for some toy and game makers 
NEW YORK (AP) -Heavy ar­tillery line the border between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Jet fighters home in on Baghdad. Oil rigs, air bases and chemical plants are destroyed. It is war in the Persian Gulf-in card­board. 
The outbreak of fighting in the gulf has brought new busi­ness to some toy and game manufacturers, particularly those who create sophisticated war games and scale models of military aircraft and weapons. 
After Iraq invaded Kuwait in August, TSR Inc., the maker of the popular "Dungeons and Dragons" game, began work on "A Line in the Sand," a board game based on the U.S. gulf operation. 
Avalon Hill, another military game manufacturer, brought its "Gulf Strike" board game up to date with recent events. 
The latest edition of Strategy & Tactics, a magazine about war games, featured a pullout "simulation" called "Arabian Nightmare: Kuwait War." In­cluded are a detailed map of the Persian Gulf region and cardboard game pieces repre­senting troops and weapons of the United States, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and other countries. Rules to the game take up most of the magazine's 60 pages. Re­tailers say the new games are doing well. 
"Gulf Strike," which now has a picture of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein on the box, has sold out at The Compleat 


HOOPS UPSIDE YOUR HEAD 
WI£ want 1o bounce this one Q!!_ you: 
How would you like Swatch to pay part of your tuition bill for next semester" 
To have a shot at this, just go to the next "Swatch Free Tuition Shootouf" game: 
Thursday. Janaury 31, 1991 Notre Dame v. Boston College 


{you must fill out an entry form at the Gate 10 Entrance to be eligtble) 
II v,•u rt.• t'IMl!'l:t:n. ~uu'llr-.: ~UfiHJlt•ncd lu cnurt dut~n,e halltmlt.' "' 1alr.r atw 'kt•rtC';\1 ~~,..,, nl vour i.Jt• You'll have U1 '«"'"'' ' 111d.c thc lulln"· 1 ~~ three !'hnt~. Ol One Le~ up, (~1 Out· t·h'<' 'lln".... (\I f)t,,· l l'nmlcr II \'HU makt.• all three t-...·lm~ th• lllkk ruru uut. VliU II h.1vr nclk'U YtiUf'l'll • parhal IUIItuu p;l\lllnlllu•rn \..,;t~Lh ·rh(' nnlv ttlhct rn1uncnu·mtn "'Ill s th;~!
1 v,,u n· a lull ttrfl(" umlccliCrMiu;~u: srudt.·nt Sn ""PI"'rl tiK hchllflJ: fu,h th1' "'''""""'"''' And S""·alt.h nu~lu t:lhl up ~ 111 ,pnrhn ·
1
\'1111 111..'~1 !'I.'Ult'' · ' 

Strategist, a chain of stores specializing in sophisticated adult games and war games, owner Danny Kilbert said Tuesday. 
Steve Garcia, a salesman at a Manhattan branch of the chain, said it was the outbreak of fighting that brought players into the stores rather than the troop buildup that preceded the war. 
"As soon as it changed from Desert Shield to Desert Storm, sales did pick up considerably," he said. 
Military games are aimed at older customers and more complex than traditional games like Monopoly and Trivial Pur­suit. They are also more expen­sive. "Gulf Strike" lists for $40, whilt: "A Line in the Sand" is priced at about $30. 
Other companies decided against linking their products with the war. 
At Ertl Co., a manufacturer of model kits and die-cast planes, "We talked about it. ... We just decided that it's not in good taste," said company President George Volanakis. 
Big manufacturers Hasbro Inc. and Mattei Inc., now preparing for the toy industry's trade show, Toy Fair, said they weren't making any last-minute changes or additions to their product lines. 
"We work on such a lead time that it's difficult for us to really capitalize on short-term events,'' said Mattei spokeswoman Donna Gibbs. 
The 1991 MCAT Will Be An All New, Completely Revised Test. Stanley H. Kaplan 'Is dy. 
Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:il 1991. The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep. has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work] Over HALF the students 
in medical school today are Kaplan alumni. New test] 
No problem. 

, STANLEY H. KAPLAN 1 Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. SOOIH BUO A\1£. 
SUUJH B£~, l'i 466}7 
219/272-41}') 
4/27/91 MCAT Prep Class starts 2/2/91. 
ll1( 
Viewpoint
pageS 

Thursday, January 31, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990·91 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Alison Cocks U.naglng Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor...•..•..•••.•..•.•.••. Kelley Tuthill Advertising U.nager •••••.•..Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ......••.....•• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager •••••.•••••• Amy Eckert Sports Editor •..•....•••.•.•••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager .•••.••••••..Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .•••••......••.••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director ..........•....•••.•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••••••Corinne Pavlis Controller...•...•.•••.•••.••.••.Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
All should practice prayer, tolerance during war, despite differing opinions 
Dear Editor: presence of God's Reign. Its is a traditional time of prayer 
Just over wo weeks ago, our absence indicates a breakdown for Catholics and Muslims alike. campus community was filled of justice, since peace is its first I hope many will join in the with people who were fruit. For us, nobody is an en­celebration of the Mass for frustrated by what appeared to emy, and all are sons and peace that will be offered at be the inevitable march to war. daughters of the same Creative Sacred Heart Church every Many people joined together in Love. Friday, while the war lasts, at prayer as the deadline At this time, I believe it is 5:15 p.m. I hope this can be a approached, fearful of what essential for us to commit our­common meeting ground for all might happen to them, to selves to two basic values. One of us, regardless of our people they knew, and to many is prayer, and the other is tol­personal positions about the nations of the world. Now, for erance. war. 
We pray for peace always, but Secondly, I believe this is a 
especially when it eludes us. time for tolerance and for dia­

'At this time, I 
We have an opportunity to join logue. Many men and womenbelieve it is our hearts and voices to those have made sacrifices and even of millions of men and women died for the rights we enjoy. in­
essential for us 
and children of many faiths cluding the right to express and to commit our­who pray for peace. We pray, defend our opinions. The exer­selves to two too, for the victims of war ev­cise of that right at this time is 
erywhere, on both sides. We not wrong, nor should it be left

basic values. One 
pray for men and women in abeyance. It is as tenable tois prayer,_ and the caught up in the violence of support what is taking place in war. We also remember in a Middle East as it is to question
other ts tol­
special way those members of or even oppose the war.erance.' our own Notre Dame commu-To enter into honest dialogue 
is important. To search for 
peaceful solutions is imperative. 
'To enter into There will be many opportu­

only the tenth time in the 
nities to listen to people talk

history of our nation, but for honest dialogue 
about different aspects of what

the first time in the lives of is important. To 
is taking place and to learnmost of the members of our 

search for peace­from conversations with others. 

University community, our 
Our personal positions might be country is at war. ful solutions is strengthened by this process, or

No matter what happens in 
imperative.' they may change. 

the weeks and months to come, the events surrounding the war, 
nity who are anxious about the 
But, as the weeks pass andand our personal and commu­

fate of their loved ones­
we are changed by events and

nity response to them, are 
spouses, parents, brothers, sis­
by our response to them, mayforming us all day by day. 
ters and friends. 
our exposure to war lead us toThe Just War Ethic has been 

I will pray in gratitude for the 
commit ourselves uncondition­in our possession for centuries 

comfort and safety of the men 
ally to the cause of peace and to

and is part of our tradition. 
and women of the armed 
remedying the underlying si­Under certain circumstances, 

forces. I will recognize, as well 
tuations of injustice that impedethis moral framework can lead 

those who give witness by their 
its flowering. 

to a judgment that the use of 
decisions and their lives to the

force is acceptable, and even cause of peace. Richard V. Warner, CSC necessary. But many of us are 
I hope that everyone will re­
Counselor to the President 

also disciples of the Prince of 
spond to Campus Ministry's call 
Director, Campus Ministry 

Peace. Peace is one sign of the 
for prayer on Fridays. This day 
Jan.23, 1991 
DOONESBURY 


Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices, located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 


'Forgive your enemies, but never forget their names.' 
•·. 
f( ~ } 
I. 
Thursday, January 31, 1991 page 9
Viewpoint 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seekers of 'Truth' need to think, dare to question dogma 
ization that maybe truth is a really is not going to hurt things more relative and contingent very much; in fact, those who do concept than many feel com­wander will probably be better fortable with. off because, even if they do come truth, they will still have 
As a Catholic university, Notre expanded their horizons and Dame can teach religion gained the ability to perceive courses, have priests and nuns truth more readily. If there is no in all positions within the Uni­truth, or at least not Beane's versity and generally promote truth, then freedom of inquiry its Catholic character. However, can only help individuals as a university, it cannot engage develop themselves. in religious oppression, which is what Beane seems to be Beane does not seem to real­promoting. Beane's version of ize that not everybody out there truth is, of course, shared by agrees with him, and they many others. Yet, if the would like the ability to explore University were truly catholic, the world-intellectually, in the sense of being universal, morally and spiritually -for and, if it wanted to live up to themselves at such a fine President Malloy's vision as a university as Notre Dame. Not "welcoming place," it would be everybody shares his so-called open to truly free academic "Christian point of view," and inquiry, not inquiry within the even many who do, find his bounds set by Rome. Yes, we all view on academic freedom need guidance, but repugnant. His concern with authoritarian guidance which heresy might be fitting for the Beane proposes is wrong and Church of the Inquisition, but counterproductive. fundamentally does not belong 
at a university. 
I am not quite certain what Beane is so afraid of. If there is Kurt Mills truth as Beane sees it, then a Off-campus little wandering from the path Jan.23,1991 
Iraq greedy, guilty of more than a skirmish 
Dear Editor: Prof. Talhami also stated that 
I am outraged by the state­"Arabs should control Arab oil," ments made by Professor as a justification for the Iraqi Ghada Talhami of Lake Forest invasion. Does he not consider College at a lecture sponsored the Kuwaiti people Arabs? If by the Gulf Crisis Action Group, so, then Arabs did control Arab and I feel compelled to respond. oil: the Iraqis had Iraqi oil, and 
At the "Historical and the Kuwaitis had Kuwaiti oil. If Cultural Aspects of the Crisis" he does not consider the lecture, Prof. Talhami stated: Kuwaiti people Arabs, then the "We want the West to leave us oil under Kuwait is not Arab oil alone." According to The and, therefore, should not be Observer, Talhami, a controlled by Arabs. Palestinian, referred to Iraq's Talhami said that Palestinians invasion of Kuwait as "a simple deserve their homeland. I border dispute." He also said agree. However, the Palestinian that "Arabs should have control issue is completely unrelated to over their own resources; Arabs the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. should control Arab oil," and Iraq invaded Kuwait out of insisted that the Palestinians greed; to claim that the "have a right to (their} invasion was an attempt to help homeland," He also stated that the Palestinians is sheer fallacy. "Arab nationalism will continue What good does an Arab vs. to strive for the dream of Arab war do for the Israeli­joining together the Arab Palestinian conflict? Kuwait states." has been a staunch supporter 
Unfortunately, none of Prof. of Palestinian rights, and thou­Talhami's statements are cor­sands of Palestinians worked in rect. When he refers to "we," I Kuwait. Now that the PLO has would assume that he alludes chosen to ally itself with Iraq, to the Arab people of the that position may well change. Middle East. If the Arabs would Finally, Prof. Talhami stated prefer that the Unites States that Arabs will always strive to remain uninvolved, why did join "together the Arab states." Kuwait and Saudi Arabia call That is all well and good, but if for help, and why did Egypt, the "joining together" consists Kuwait and Saudi Arabia join of brutal and abusive invasions the anti-Iraq coalition? Do like that of Kuwait, then that those countries really want the goal is unreasonable. An un­United States to "leave them willing unification is absolute alone?" lunacy. It is kin to a European 
Again, calling the Iraqi inva­power declaring all Europeans sion of Kuwait "a simple border must unify, and then proceed­dispute" is wholly incorrect. A ing to rape and plunder each border dispute does not consist nation in turn. of 500,000 troops rolling across No matter how hard another nation, nor does it Professor Talhami tries to jus­consist of torture, rape, tify the Iraqi invasion of plundering and unprovoked Kuwait, it cannot be accurately executions, as Amnesty done. Iraq's attack was unpro­International and hundreds of voked; no justification can be Kuwaiti refugees have repeat­found other than greed. edly claimed. A true border dispute, such as that between Matthew Miller China and the Soviet Union, is Carroll Hall merely a few skirmishes. Jan.23,1991 


Dear Editor, 
Jon Beane (The Observer, Jan. 22) certainly does have a "unique" notion of academic freedom. This description, however, does not fully encom­pass his perspective. A better characterization might be that his view of academic freedom is twisted, oppressive and in total contradiction to the modern notion of the university. It demonstrates that he is, indeed, as he described himself, "a veri­table wretch living in darkness and error." The darkness is that of the Catholic Church which, on a number of issues, is still living in the Dark Ages. The error flows from his un­questioning acceptance of these outmoded positions and his at­tempt to force them on others. 
Beane's basic position seems to be that the university's role is to lead people to "Truth" and, therefore, it must prevent them from straying off the path toward truth. He talks about how we must fulfill our nature, which I assume is part of truth; yet he also says that we are self­determining. Well, which is it? Do we have an innate nature, or do we have the power to make ourselves into who we want? The two points seem contradictory, almost as con­tradictory as his overall treatise on truth and the university. 
The best characterization that I have found of the purpose of the university is that it exists in order to teach people how to think. Some may think this is toward a more ultimate goal of finding some sort of truth, which is OK. Yet, the operative word here is "think," which implies the ability to engage in critical inquiry, in a wide variety of areas and on many different issues. It does not mean restricting inquiry and handing down so-called truth in an authoritarian manner. It means having the ability to question the current dogma, whether secular or religious, to see whether it is really operative in today's world, and whether it really addresses the needs and concerns of the people. 
Beane's view of the university as the purveyor of truth inhibits this critical inquiry. This is the most odious thing about his position: he pushes his truth down the throats of all who want to get an education at Notre Dame, regardless of their moral, intellectual or religious viewpoints. It might be instructive to remind ourselves from whence this truth comes. It comes from an institution which perpetrated one of the most important and egregious 
violations of academic freedom: the persecution of Galileo for espousing the Copernican the­ory of astronomy. He was en­joined from engaging in this ac­tivity and was denounced to the Inquisition. More than three centuries later, the Church fi­nally decided that maybe this violation of academic freedom was not right. 
How many other Galileos would Beane like to wrongly suppress? It seems certain that he would want to muzzle Father Curran for his actually very moderate views. Maybe Bishop Hunthausen? These are just the current notables. Yet, there are many others who would like to be able to find their own way to the truth, whether it be Beane's truth, another truth or a real-

Dear Editor: 
Transport yourselves overseas for just a moment. You are standing in Baghdad. The stench of death hangs in the air. Thousands of innocents about you have been slaugh­tered mercilessly. Buildings have been reduced to rubble by the bombings, and the cries of the wounded fill the air. The sound of a jet engine rumbles in the distance, prompting those who are still able to move to drag themselves to cover like rodents fleeing an oncoming predator. This isn't a macho war movie or a media-hyped mini-series; this is real, and this is frightening. 
Is this just, as in a "just war?" How could God's favor possibly be behind such a mas­sacre? Is this "reparation?" How has Kuwait been restored by the slaughter of innocents here? Is this the American "policy of freedom" being upheld-President Bush's "clear-cut case of good vs. 
As horrors of war continue, peace is the only power which deserves to take action 

threatening about these citi­zens, among them women and children? 
Are any of these questions even relevant once faced with the devastation itself? What would they mean to a helpless Iraqi child who has just watched his world explode into flames and his parents perish before his eyes? 
How can we even dream of a world peace if instituted so in­consistently by acts of violence? The idea is inconceivable. The wrongs of Iraq have been ri­valed by America-was that what we intended? But it is too late to worry about "history"-we cannot change the past. However, the 
Before we put U.S. action in bad light, let us illuminate all major issues of this war 
must be faced. We are responsible for the destruction and loss of life we have wrought. 
If peace truly is our priority, we must take peaceable action now to ease the carnage of both sides to an end. The nego­tiation lines must be reopened and mutual atonement made, for now the blood is upon our hands as well. This war must be ended and the reality faced before the steadily climbing death toll becomes a torrent of blood from both sides of the battlelines. 
Joe McCarty Alumni Hall 
Jan.24,1991 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to two Observer letters related to the situation in the Persian Gulf. One, entitled "U.S. fails moral test with use of military force" (The Observer, Jan. 21), criticizes the U.S. government's decision to use force against Iraq and states that our attack is not "Purely an issue of justice and protecting the rights and 
freedom  of  the  people  of  
Kuwait."  What about the im­ 
morality  and  injustice  of  

Saddam Hussein's actions? He has invaded another country. His army has raped the women, killed men, stolen people's be­longings and any sense of secu­rity they may have had. Would it be moral for the U.S. to allow this to continue to happen? 
It seems in this letter, the au­thor forgets the other side. It would be great if the Allied Forces could stop Hussein through peaceful means, such as economic sanctions. But this has not worked and would not. Hussein does not care about the welfare of his people; he does not care if his people are starving. That is evident through his use of nerve gas on his own people in 1988; inno­cent people who were killed on this man's order. 
The second letter, entitled "Liberating Kuwait through brutal destruction is wrong" (The Observer, Jan. 21), states that "We risk losing sight of the major issues." Let us include all of the issues. One of the major issues is that Saddam Hussein has already attempted to get nuclear weapons. If given the opportunity, he will get them and, most probably, use them with no hesitation. That is when we will see mass destruction. 
This letter also mentions "the safety of the American service­men stationed in the Middle East." First of all, this issue includes American servicemen and servicewomen. Second of all, let us support them, not discredit them. These men and women are not naive, ignorant people. They knew the risks involved in making the choice to join the military service. They are strong, courageous individ­uals, who believe in what they are there for. They are bravely fighting for justice and, though it sounds like an oxymoron, are fighting for peace. 
Meghan Hughes LeMans Hall 
Jan. 221991 
Accent 

page 10 Thursday, January 31, 1991 
./More than a Game'
.IWIOU' 
• 

'Observer' Sports Editor, basketball fanatic becomes author
serious 
r \ 
entertainment
h 
I 
The typical television viewer usually does not give programs a detailed analysis, but when analyzing evening television, a number of different program classifications come to mind. 
The situation comedies are easily identified by their twenty-two minutes of actual air time and relative lack of plot, but anything longer than one half hour of television is becoming increasingly more difficult to place into a neat, compact box; I do not believe everything in life should be handled in such a manner, but for communicating the true nature of "WIOU" comparisons to other programs may prove very beneficial. 

( Mark Johnson To Be Continued... 
H 
"WIOU~ may be seen in CBS' Wednesday night line-up at 9:00 p.m. The plot of this program revolves around the difficulties found in a major news station in a large city. When this scant amount of information is presented to the 
reader, it may be' difficult to interpret. Is "WIOU" presenting a view of life through the eyes of the "thirtysomething" yuppie? Does this series function as a late night soap of the tradition of "Dallas?" Or does this series present the news industry as seriously as "St. Elsewhere" viewed the medical profession? 
The final question of these three is probably the most relevant to "WIOU" because this program finds its roots much closer to "St. Elsewhere" than any other program. "St. Elsewhere" dramatically increased the realism of evening television by presenting the daily functions of a hospital through the eyes of those who carried out those functions. Action became equal to character. "WIOU" follows this prece­dent without taking itself nearly as seriously. 
An extensive list of the characters of this program is nearly impossible to formulate be­cause each episode contains a large number of plots. The specific episode I chose to review contained plots involving gang violence, a strike at the station, a possible marriage, the plight of a single mother raising her children, and the difficulties facing a station manager. 
While the large number of plots may seem ridiculously difficult to understand, this is not necessarily the case. Each character is very full, and the viewer of "WIOU" is never left confused as to their true nature. Floyd (Dick Van Patten) is WIOU's weatherman and a well-liked member of the broadcast crew. He was initially cast as a forgetful grandfather-type earlier in the season, but his character has become more developed after loosing most of his eyesight to an degenerating eye disease. In this week's episode, he is learning to deal with his disability and returns to the station to help renegotiate a contract with management. 
Harris Yulin's portrayal of the overpaid, egomaniac head anchorman is also extremely engaging and conveys images of the spoiled Dan Rather-type. He usually does not move from his anchor desk, but this episode found him in the heart of gang violence conducting an interview with a woman who stood up to those who had taken over her neighborhood. As his interview progresses, the news van is blown to pieces, and the crew is forced to hide in a crack house. "It's our own Vietnam," he quips. Not typical news casting, but then this is no typical news station; it is only television. 
"WIOU" is only television, and so the drama is heightened for the viewer's benefit. This heightened excitement is the reason "WIOU" cannot take itself as seriously as "St. Elsewhere" before it. This criticism does not erase the posi­tives of this series, and I recommend it highly. 
elevision need not be real life to be worth atching. Television need only entertain, and "WIOU" most definitely does. 
By COLLEEN CRONIN 
Accent Editor 
I 
f you have spent any amount of time in Indiana you know how fanatical Hoosiers are about basketball. Greg Guffey, a native Hoosier, a Notre Dame senior and the Observer sports editor, is fanatical enough to write a book about the game. 
"More Than a Game" is the history of boys high school basketball in Henry County which is in downstate Indiana near Indianapolis. The 195-page book covers county teams, Final Four teams and various outstanding individuals. and has 20 pages worth of statistics for the die-hard sports fan. 
"Native Hoosiers understand the religion-like significance of basketball to this state," said Guffey. "What I hope to convey through this book is the signifi­cance and importance of basketball to this state to someone who is not from Indiana." 
Guffey got the idea from a friend of his back home in New Castle, which is about 40 miles east of Indianapolis, who is a history professor. The professor had written two general history books on Henry County and Guffey saw the opportunity to collaborate and do a more specific history book. He delved into it during semester break of his sophomore year. doing research and interviewing people. The professor suggested people for Guffey to talk to and helped out on the history of the county but Guffey did all the work. 
And the work did not go unnoticed. He put the finishing touches on the book at the end of last August and saw the fruits of his labor appear in hardback in December, just one month ago. He has sold about 800 copies so far and it was a big seller in New Castle over the holidays. 
"I think that any fan of basketball would enjoy the book, not just any fan of basketball in Henry County," said Guffey. "The same qualities are possessed by teams in Henry County that are possessed by teams all across the country." 
The book has been well-received and made him almost a hometown hero in New Castle. His elementary school asked him to dedicate an autographed copy to the library, and his sixth grade teacher asked to him into her class where the all the kids lined up for his autograph. 


Many people are amazed to hear that someone "only 22" wrote a book but it should not be a surprise considering all that Guffey has behind him. As far back as fifth grade he has been writing about sports-he put out a two-page local sports newsletter-and he has been with The New Castle Courier-Times since his senior year of high school. He started at The Observer his freshman year and worked his way up to sports editor. He also writes for The South Bend Tribune. 
The book is only in regional bookstores so cannot be bought around here. Anyone interested in buying it should contact Guffey. The book is $14.95, "with a free autograph." 
As for any more books in the future Guffey is vague. "I've got some ideas." 

The Observer page 11
Thursday, January 31, 1991 
Lou Holtz to tell his story before NCAA committee 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz plans to testify later this week before an NCAA committee investigating possible violations while he was head coach at Minnesota. 
The NCAA's Infractions Committee is meeting Friday through Sunday in San Diego to hear cases involving Minnesota and three other schools. Minnesota's attorneys say their hearing should be completed on the first day. 
Holtz has said he plans to remain as coach of the Irish "if they'll have me." 
"I can only say this," Holtz said. "I feel very confident in the information we have pro­vided the committee and I feel sure we will be vindicated." 
Holtz, who has denied rumors he is seeking a job in the NFL because of the NCAA investigation, has been accused of three rules violations while he was coach at Minnesota in 1984-85. 
The NCAA is investigating charges he gave former Minnesota player Jerry Keeble $250 to pay for a correspondence course; that he gave $200 to a recruit who lost his wallet during a campus visit; and that he gave a former Minnesota academic advisor $500 to pass on to a player. 
Holtz says he provided the money to enable Keeble to en­roll in a course he needed to gain readmission to Minnesota to pursue his degree, and that he did so only after checking to determine Keeble could not regain football eligibility. 
Holtz insists that on impulse he gave recruit Rozelle Richardson $20, not $200, to reimburse Richardson for his lost wallet. Richardson has said the amount was $40. A third party, former Minnesota and Notre Dame assistant coach Pete Cordelli, said he saw the transaction. Cordelli said the amount was $200 but he has given conflicting accounts of what he saw. Cordelli will not comment publicly. 
Lemieux returns to Pittsburgh 
"75 percent healthy" Mario helps Penguins dump Caps 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Mario, Mario, Mario. 
The sellout crowd at Pittsburgh's Civic Arena chanted his name, gave him standing ovations, waved black-and-gold .signs bearing his name. When he took the ice on his 19 shifts, many fans rose to their feet, expecting some­thing special, expecting some­thing magical. 
They got it. 
Mario Lemieux was bedridden for weeks with a back infection, played just one game in a year, and was admittedly out of shape when he finally returned last week. 
It made no difference. Even a Lemieux who, by his own ad­mission, is only 75 to 80 per­cent in shape is capable of mir­acles on ice. 
"You just knew he was going to come up with something," teammate Wendell Young said. "It's just a matter of time with Mario." 
Playing at home for the first time this season, Lemieux set up Pittsburgh's first goal and scored the tying goal as the streaking Penguins rallied for a 3-2 overtime victory Tuesday 
night over the Washington Capitals. 
"I still have a long way to go," Lemieux said. ''I'm still not in very good shape. I'd say I'm maybe 75 or 80 percent. I just have to keep on improving." 
That's a thought to ruin the day of any NHL goaltender. 
In just two games, Lemieux -a two-time NHL scoring champion -has a goal and four assists for five points. He has added perhaps the most dangerous weapon in hockey to what already was the league's highest-scoring team. 
No wonder there was a play­off-like atmosphere for Lemieux's homecoming in a city that has sat out seven of the last eight NHL playoffs. 
"It reminded me a lot of the Calgary-Edmonton series," coach Bob Johnson said. "A lot of excitement. A lot of intensity. A lot of enthusiasm." 
"It was a night to remember for all of us," said rookie Paul Stanton, who scored the game­winner at 2:46 of overtime. "When we came out and saw all those 'Mario' signs, it got ev­erybody excited. There was a little bit of playoff fever out there. It was huge." 

Beforehand, Johnson re­minded the Penguins not to be spectators, not to wait for him to make something happen. 
"I told them, 'Don't get caught up in the show,' " Johnson said. 
"He wanted us to play our game and not sit there and watch Mario put on a clinic," teammate Kevin Stevens said. "He's pretty easy to watch. We like watching him, too. It's hard not to watch him." 
It certainly was for the Capitals, who took a 2-0 lead on two Kelly Miller goals in the first 3:40, then got caught up in the Lemieux watch themselves. That was understandable, since Lemieux has 30 goals and 31 assists in 38 career games against Washington. 
Lemieux sent the game into overtime at 14:39 of the third period, pushing a rebound of rookie Jaromir Jagr's shot past goaltender Don Beaupre. 
The Observer accepts classlf1eds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

LOST: Clear plastic dress bag SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER Ramada Inn of Elkhart. 
PREGNANT? Happily-married Anyone interested in playil)g atNOTICES filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. CHILDREN'S CAMPS· Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms Catholic parents, full time stay-at­
"The Coffeehouse" contact Was left hung over NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN for 
home mom and devoted dad, eager Jim@ X4061 USED TEXTBOOKS wire fence behind Breen-Philips on WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO Graduation weekend. Located at 
to adopt. Will provide strong faith; 25% off list price Dec. 21. Sweater of SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart 
lots of love; two excited brothers; Need BASSIST for est. band Pandora's Books 233·2342 great sentimental value inside. If POOL AND LAKES IN THE (12 miles from South Bend) 
large extended family; opportunities Paul x3671 corner of NO ave and Howard found, please call Erin at x1458. NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY. Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 
include college and travel. We ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL deposit per room. Send letter with 

enjoy week-ends at our lake TYPING AVAILABLE LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: deposit to 3011 
cottage and mini-vacations with "I never longed Bob & Pumpkin 287-4082 of a link design. Great sentimental CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, 
friends/children. Paid medical, on the van to Day1on."·lvan & value. Reward. Phone 2156 MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) IN46514. 
legal, counseling, housing, and Hollye-The Annoying Couple GRADUATE STUDENT UNION (Maria). 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR 
living expenses. Call COLLECT: 0­Invites all Grad. Students, WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX Efficiency apartment 1 mile to NO 
317-253-8838, Extension 255 and Faculty and Staff Members 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 campus.$250 a month. Call Don 
let us help you. LONDON SPRING '90!!!! to the LOST ON MONDAY AT ACC: (617) 934-6536. 1.6830175 after 6pm. 
GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND FRIDAY AFTERNOON CLUB! GOLD-AND-SILVER-COLORED 
HAVE A PINT. MEET AT This Friday, and every Friday WATCH. ACOMMEMORATIVE GRAPHIC ARTIST STUDENT 
COACH'S MON. FEB. 4 @ 9P.M. at the GIFT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. NEEDED FOR FREE LANCE 
FOR SALE ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA Alumni-Senior Club REWARD! PLEASE CALL WORK. CALL IHRD 233-4493. 
SPRING BREAK '91 X 4034. 
5:00 PM · 9:00 PM 2710621. CHEAP AIRLINE TICKETS from NO COVER · FREE FOOD MACINTOCH EXPERTISE South Bend to Dallas Feb 7-10. 
BAHAMAS/CANCUN LOST· DETEX. REWARD. 283-NEEDED. WE HAVE SOFTWARE­Call 259·6748. Best Offer. 
from$375 LONDON SPRING '901!1 TYPING term 4909. NEED HELP INSTALLING AND 
GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND papers/reports/letters/resumes. CLEANING UP. CALL !HAD 233· ROLEX WATCH, lady's, new. orig. 
HAVE A PINT! MEET AT Pick up & delivery available. 277· 4493. cost $3.000. Sacrifice. Dan 289­
CALL NOW!!! COACH'S MON. FEB. 4@ 9P.M. 5134 Cathy 2797.
WANTED 277-0253: MIKE ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA 
X4034! Lock up your daughter SUMMER JOBS FORRENT ) 1980 Datsun 200sx,5spd,runs Lock up your wife ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS great,30mpg,perfect college Lock up your back door PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. car,asking $500,x-1617 
SPRING BREAK in Cancun or And run for your life... ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS prime locations. 233-9947. Bahamas from $299.00! Includes 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 286 computer,40MB roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, cruise. Weazel returns with his big CALL 1·800-343-8373. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY H0,1 MB,3.5&5.25HD,VGA,Iots of 
RUBEN RAMIREZ beach parties, free lunch and much organ ...and the band 219·291·7153. extras,asking $1300,x-1617 
Esperamos que te encuentres bien more! Organize a small group-earn "GOOD QUESTION" SUMMER JOBS 
y disfrutando en Japon. Te free trip plus cash. Call HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to 
extranamos en las navidades 1·800-BEACH IT. the best in blues/rock COUNSELORS/SUMMER campus. Only $150/month. Call 
TICKETS boricuas pero ya nos veremos en Bridget's Friday Night CHILDREN'S Paul287-2159. 
verano. Saludos y Suerte. 

CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP KEENAN REVUE TICKETS Jorge y Cria FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Scriblerians · English Major Club SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, Need rooms for Jr. Parent's Week? Have two tickets for Saturday night CALLING VANESSA 2729305 meeting! . Tonight! Thursday 7 PM TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST CAll Home B &B. will trade for Thursday night. Am 217 Oshag All welcome! HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE ,?91·0535. X4012 
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY. CRAFTS, BASEBALL. SHARP houses, '91· '92 yr. 
Hey ol' JESTER! NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, Many extras. 288-5653 or For sale: 1 student ticket for 
Tonight at da Club 2 3. REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3·5 DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, 234-3831 Thursday's basketball game Be dare. DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. -HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF. against Boston College. Call 4321. 
LOST/FOUND 
$5 OFF WITH ND/SMC 10. NIGHT GUITAR. GYMNASTICS, 2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES 
ON SA 23. PAST IRONWOOD. THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM HOCKEY, HORSEBACK· CLOSE TO CAMPUS I Need one Duke ticket 
HELP I need a ride to CALL 277-6245. #115, P.O. BOX 1214. AND A ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE. 232-3616 Dan x2042 
Cleveland-John Carroll 211· BUSINESS KEY-AROUND LACROSSE. NATURE, 
213 call Lisax3882 ALUMNI, MORRISSEY. OR LA PHOTOGRAPHY. PIANO. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD 
FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE ROCKETRY. ROLLERBLADING. NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO 
LOST: ONE GOLD BRIEUX THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE ROPES, SAILBOARDING, FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR PERSONALS 
WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND FOUND. CALL 284·4308. THANK SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, 2773097 
AND MOTHER-OF-PEARL FACE. YOU!! TRACK, WATER SKI. WEIGHTS, 
LOST NOT TOO LONG AGO IN WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: 4·7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 
GENERAL VICINITY OF ATIIC LOST: a red Minnie Mouse watch CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & 
ROOM OF 325 TAYLOR ST., probably in JACC MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) FLORIDA 6 DAYS $299! 
PROBABLY SOMEWHERE NEAR gym 2, Sunday 1/27,2 PM. Any 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CJTY 
THE COUCH. IF FOUND. KEEP 
~ESE~VATIONS AVAILABLE NOW' 

info please contact WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX Furnished Bedrooms and Shared $99! SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1· IT! I'M CERTAINLY NOT GOING 
DAYTONA BEACH ..... Sffg·
Patty x4092. 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 Living Areas, Avail. for 91·92 Yr. 800-638-6786. TO CLAIM IT NOW. 
7 NIGHTS * 

(617) 934-6536. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND .... Sf29 LOST: Nikon Camera & Case includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
5 ~NO J NIGHTS $ • 

STEAMBOAT .. ~ 96
Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26 STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK 
2 S AND 7 NIGHTS * at Law School Party in the TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER Information on semester, summer, 
FORT LAUDERDALE .• SfJ7 JACC Monogram Room. If CHILDREN'S CAMPS­Quaint apts. near N.D. J.term, Graduate, and Internship 
'91 I CANCUN FROM $459. 
1 NJCHrs ..

JAMAICA FROM $539.00! DON'T picked up or found, please NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN -upstairs 1 bedroom $255 programs. All programs run under 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ·~· 1f24
MISS THE FUN AND SUN! CALL 
7 NIGHTS 

contact 273·9236. You WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 $6000. Call Curtin University at 1· 1·800-427-7710. 
CORPUS CHRISTl I 
will be rewarded for your THE NORTHEAST. GOOD deposit, reference 616-483-9572. 800-878-3696. 
MUSTANG ISLAND ·~·sros· 
5 AND 7 NICHi5 

honesty. $$$$$$$ SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, ADOPTION: Christian couple 
~Sff2•

HILTON HEAD ISLAND
TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS
seeks to adopt white infant. 

FOUND: portable CD player CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, MARION ST. FRAT HOUSE Adoption: Loving couple, doctor 
CALL TOLL f:IIEE TODAY
Financially secure home in call Tom at 1155 P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA Rent for '91·'92 year and teacher, lbnging to share our suburban area. Expenses paid. 

1·800·J21·59t1

02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL For 8 people@ $160/mnth. love with newbom. We'll give your 
Legal/confidential. Answer our ad LOST: DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 U1ilities & Furniture extra baby a caring, warm. and happy 
and answer our prayers. Please RING. GREAT SENTIMENTAL GLEN LANE. MAMARONECK, NY Call Jon@ 289-1015 home. Expenses paid. Call Carol 
caH Harry and Melody collect at VALUE. REWARD. 283·3097. 10543 (914) 381-5983. between 5 and 6 pm. and Frank collect 212·87 4-3537. (219) 259-0585 any time. 

The Observer 

page 12 Thursday, January 31, 1991 
National celebrates first birthday at crossroads 
NEW YORK (AP) -Like one side. surveys showed "people didn't and machines limited growth. reach their initial projection." of the boastful rookies it often Two key questions remain want it anyhow," he said. In December, The National He said Schwab would stick writes about, The National unanswered, however. Are By summer, the editorial dropped its Sunday edition with the paper. sports daily promised more there enough readers willing to strategy was changed to em­after sales lagged its Monday­than it was able to deliver in its pay for a daily sports newspa­phasize national stories, and through-Friday issues. The Nike Inc. and Philip Morris 
l 
\ first year in publishing's big per and how much is its owner other than the TV listings, all of previous month. the paper fired USA also expressed support. leagues. prepared to lose to find out? the paper's editions are now its circulation manager, two The newspaper ran up unex­"They have certainly not essentially the same, he said. other top executives and 18 of The planned rollout into new pectedly large losses, und.ershot taken America by storm," said The paper evolved in other its 200 editorial employees. markets was slower than ex­
! 
its circulation targets, dropped John Gray, director of media ways as well. This month, the cover price pected, reaching only 10 edi­its Sunday edition, jacked up its planning for the ad agency J. Readers found a half-page of went to 75 cents from 50 cents. tions by yearend. Its 11th edi­cover price, fired 8.5 percent of Walter Thompson in New York. condensed news stories from The paper told advertisers tion began Jan. 22 in its editorial staff and severed The National is owned by a the "real world" patronizing, last fall that it had to cut its Philadelphia. ties with one of its founders. privately-held partnership con­Deford said. A "jocks stocks" circulation guarantee by 27 
But some media analysts say trolled by Mexican media baron feature that tracked stock percent to 200,000 a day rather But Deford said average that given the recession and the Emilio Azcarraga. It debuted prices of companies with sports than 275,000. That is impor­unaudited circulation for 
weakest advertising market in last Jan. 31 with editions in interests was dropped, as was a tant to advertisers because they December rose to 231,000. He
\ 
two decades, the nation's first New York, Chicago and Los weather map. pay to reach readers. blamed the circulation prob­.~ daily sports paper did well to Angeles and a cast of top writ­"We have found people want Ad Director Peter Spina said lems on logistics and a lack of survive a year. ers and editors. sports in this paper and they the paper nevertheless sold awareness of the paper, not a "This is a tough time to The plan was to have differ­won't tolerate anything else," about six pages of ads a day for miscalculation in potential
·i launch a new product," said ent covers and up to six pages Deford said. the year, 50 percent more than readership. newspaper analyst John of local stories in each market The initial plans were to planned. He said no national Morton of the investment firm along with 30-plus pages of na­reach an average daily circula­advertisers canceled after the Plans are to expand into four Lynch Jones & Ryan. tional sports stories. tion of 200,000 in the first circulation base was cut. new markets this year: Atlanta, 
Having taken its lumps. The Editor-in-Chief Frank Deford three markets and sell 400,000 Tom Taggart, a spokesman Denver, Seattle and the National observes its first an­said it was soon evident that it copies in 15 markets by 1991. for the discount brokerage Pittsburgh-Cleveland area. niversary Thursday with a re­was too expensive and too But problems in finding print­Charles Schwab & Co.. which Efforts will also be made to fined editorial mission and ma­cumbersome to provide that ing facilities and getting the pa­advertises in The National. said ship the paper farther from its jor advertisers sticking by its much local coverage. Reader per distributed to newsstands new publications "almost never current market hubs. 
Scoreboard 

NHL STANDINGS NCAA SCORES TRANSACTIONS NCAA HALL OF FAME APTOP 25 
1. UNLV (16-0) did not play. Next: at San Jose~ EAST 
BASEBALL Playera 

WALES CONFERENCE American League Steve Owens. rb, Oklahoma, 1967-69 Stale. Thursday. Patrick Dlvlalon KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with Pat Sullivan, qb, Auburn, 1968·71
Albany Pharmacy 81, Ulster C.C. 70 2. Arkansas (21·1) beat Alabama-Birmingham
\ w L T Pta GF GA Jeff Montgomery, pitcher, and Bill Pecota. third Fred Biietnikoff, wr, Florida State, 1962-64
Allegheny 88, Case Western 78

\ 104·12. Next: at Rice, Saturday. 
NY Rangers 27 18 8 62 191 164 baserran. on one-year oontracta. Ed Marinaro, rb, Cornell, 1969-71
Armerst 82, Clark u. 79 

Pittsburgh 28 21 3 59 224 191 TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with L. Parker Hall, rb, MlssisspPI, 1936-38 3. Ohio Sta!e (17·0) did not play. Next: at
I Baruch 92, CCNY 66 
J 
Phlladephia 26 22 6 58 182 170 Brandeis 89, Nichols 64 David Well&, pitcher, on a on.year contract. Kenny Easley, db, UCLA, 1977·80 Michigan State, Thursday. New Jersey 21 21 10 52 190 176 National League Hub Bechtol, end, Texas, 1944·46 
Bridgepon 99, S. Connecticut 87 4. Indiana (19-2) beat Wlaoonsin 73-57. Next: at
Washington 23 27 3 49 167 178 ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms wtth Alex Karras, t, Iowa, 195!>-57
Buffalo 73, Mercyhurst 62 

\ NY Islanders 18 27 8 42 148 182 C.W. Post 118, Concordia, N.Y. 77 Andrea Thoma, ahortatop, on on.year contract, Bobby Bell, t, Minnesota. 1960-62 Minnesota. Sunday. Adama Dlvlalon and Deion Sanders, outfielder, on a minor-league George Savilsky, t, Pennsylvania, 1944-47 5. St. John's (1!>-3) lost to No. 18 Georgetown
Calffornla, Pa 75, SHppery Rock 73 Boston 29 16 8 66 191 167 contract James Stillwagon, g, Ohio State, 1968-70
Carnegie-Mellon 78, Wash. & Jeff. 76 59-53. Next: vs. No. 25 Seton Hall, Saturday. 
Montreal 29 19 5 63 181 157 NEW YORK METS-Promoted Frank Cashen, Wayne Meylan. g. Nebraska, 1965-67
Colby 111, Bates 82 

1 
6. Arizona (16·3) did not play. Next: va.
Buffalo 21 20 10 52 182 174 executive vice president, to senior executive vice Coachea
Dickinson 79, Muhlenberg 77 

Hartford 22 24 5 411 148 175 president, and AI Harazln, senior vice pnoalclent, to Dave Maurer, W~tenberg, 1969-83 Washington State. Thursday. 
Dowling 94, Adephi 84

Quebec 10 33 II 211 147 233 executive vice president. Agreed to terma with Tommy Prothro, Oregon State 195!>-64, UCLA
Drexel 75, Md.·Bahlmore County 63 7. Duke (16-4) at No. 23 Georgia Tech. Next: at Edinboro 105, Clarion 95 
Anthony Young, pitcher, and K&Ytn Baez. infielder, 196!>-70 

I 
Notra Dame, Saturday.
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE on one-year contracts. AHyn McKeen, Merrphis State 1937·38,
EHzabeth C~y St. 88, Bowie St. 74 8. Syracuse (18-3) did not play. Next: vs. Boston

Norrla Dlv'-lon PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms Mississippi State 1931145
Elizabethtown 91, Juniata 78

w L T Pta GF GA wtth Terry Mulholland, pttcher, on a one-year College. Saturday.
Franklin & Marshall 112, Hawrford 51 

Chicago 34 15 4 72 177 134 contract.
Franklin Pierce 77, New HaJ1'1)Shire Coli. 64 9. North Carolina (14·3) did not play. Next: at St. Louis 211 15 7 65 197 157 Florida Sta.. LHgue
Georgetown 59, St. John's 53 Clemson, Thursday. 

Delroll 22 28 5 49 178 197 FORT LAUDERDALE YANKEEs..-.Named Steve INDIANA TOP 20
Grove City 65, Thiel 60 

Mln.-ota 18 3011 41 163 188 Frick assistant general manager and Mike 10. Kentucky (16-3) did not play. Next: vs.
Hunter 91, Lehman 65 

Toronto 13 33 5 31 147 212 Stanfield director ol mart<Ming-tk:ketlng.
Kings, Pa 71, Albright 49 Georgia. Sunday.
1. Manlnsville (111-0) vs FrankKn FrL~~ Lehigh 83, Bucknell 75 2. Gary Roouvel (17·1) vs Hamnond Frt. 11. Nebraska (17·2) vs. Missouri. Next: vs.
Smyh Dlvlalon 

Los Angeles 28 17 5 61 204 161 FOOTBALL
Lowell 70, Keene St. 63 3. Bedford N. Lawr.nce (1 !>-0) at Floyd Central Oklahoma State, Saturday. 

Calgary 27 20 5 59 213 170 Natlonel FooltMIII LHgue
Maine 88, Boston U. 81 Frt.

Edmortton 25 22 3 53 174 161 INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Named Sylvester 12. UCLA (15-4) at Southern California. Next: vs.
Marlst 61, Hanford 60 4. Muncie Central (13-1) at Kokomo Frt. 

Winnipeg 18 29 8 44 179 195 Croom running bacl<s coach.
Marymount. Va 83, York, Pa 80 No. 19 Pittsburgh, Saturday. 
5. lndpla Brebeuf (1 !>-1) vs lndpla Park Tudor Frt.
Vancouver 19 30 4 42 165 204 Canadian Football Laague
l 
M81Siah 72, Lycoming 56 6. Concord (12·1) vs S.Bend St.JoHph'a FrL 13. Utah (19·1) did not play. Next: at Texas-EI
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Agreed to terma
Millersville 85, Shepherd 81 7. Washington Catholic (1!>-0) at Dubola Frt.

with Lloyd Lewis, defensive lineman, on a three­Paso, Thursday. 
N.Y. Tech 84, Southa.JT1)ton 76 8. E.Chicago Central (12·3) at Hammond Noll 

Nazareth, N.Y. 92, Elmira 91 year contract. 14. LSU (13·5) lost to Mississippi State 82·79.
Frl

Wedneaday'a Gamea Pltt.·Bradford 87, D'Youville 51 
Next: at Vanderbih. Saturday.Late Game Not Included Ramapo 93, Montclair St. 67 COLLEGE 
9. Anderson Highland (12·2) vs Huntington 
BROOKLYN-Narned Rod Schapp assistant North Fri; ill lndpia Pike Sal. 15. Virginia (15-4) did not play. Next: vs. WakeMqntreal 8, Winnipeg 4 Sacred Heart 101, New Haven 94 
10. Vincennes (14·2) beat Washington 8().52; at I Minnesota 5, DetroiT 2 Shippensburg 90, Indiana, Pa. 81 
lootbal coach. Forest, Saturday. POTSDAM STATE-Named Jim Lyons men's 
No.13 TH South F rt.

Calgary 5, N.Y. Rangers 1 St. Francis, NY 86, Morgan St. 83 16. East Tennessee State (16-2) at Memphis
11. Jeffersonvlle (13-2) at St. Xavier, Ky., Fri. 
lacrossa and soccer coach.
Edmonton 9, Vancouver 4 Stony BrOOk 82, Kings Point 52 

12. Mich. City Elston (12·2) vs S.Band Adatr8 State. Next: a1 Appalachian State, Saturday. 
New Jersey at Los Angeles, (n) Swarthmore 65, Widener 46 
Fri; vs MC Rogers Sal. 17. Southern Mississippi (13·2) beat
BIG TEN 
Towson St. 88, Delaware 84, OT W L Pet. W L 13. TH South ( 12·2) beat N.Centrlll (Sullvan) Southwestern 97·91.

Trenton St. 53, Glassboro St. 42 Louisiana Next: vs. 
Ohio State 7 0 1.000 17 0 77-53; vs. No.10 Vincennes Fri.

I Utica 80, St. Lawrence 57 Louisville, Saturday. 
l 
14. Muncie South (14·1) at Nobleavlle FrL VHianova 75, Pittsburgh 72 Indiana 7 1 .875 19 2 
Michigan St 5 3 .625 12 6 15. Andnaan (11·3) vs Hoban Frf. 18. Georgetown (13·5) beat No. 5 St. John's 59­Thuraday'a Gamea Waynesburg 96, Bethany,W.Va 82 
8 16. Mt.Vernon (Hancock) (13-3) at Lapel Frf. West Chester 77, Kutztown 63
Montreal al Boston, 7:35p.m. Illinois 4 3 .571 14 53. Next: vs. DePaul, Sunday. Quebec at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. 
Wisconsin 4 4 .500 10 8 17. Waruw (13-1) • Plymouth Fri. 

Worcester Tech 79, Trinity, Conn. 67 19. Pittsburgh ( 15-5) vs. Villanova at the
.429 11 6 18. Manchester (14-0) vs Churutx.co Frf; at
Washington at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Purdue 3 4
York, N.Y. 75, Staten Island 64 

Ft.Wayne Dwenger Sal. Spectrum Next: at No. 12 UCLA, Saturday. 
Plltsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Minnesota 3 4 .429 10 7 Hart!ord a1 St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Iowa 2 5 .286 13 6 20. New Mexico State (15·2) did not play. Next:
19. lndpls Ben Davis (11·5) vs Carmel Fri; at 
N.Y. Rangers at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Michigan 2 6 .250 9 9 Broad Ripple Sat. 
at Long Beach State, Saturday. 

20. S.Bend RNey (14·2) at S.Bend Clay Frt. 
N._tern 0 7 .000 5 12 


CAREERS TO SAVE 
THE PLANET 



WELCOMEYOURPARENTSTOJPWIN
PUT YOUR IDEAUSM TO WORK 
STYLE WITH ONE OF THESE GIFTS
FOR A GREEN RJTURE. PROFESSIONAL STAFF POSITIONS AVAILABLE WITH PUBUC 

$7.00
INTERFST RESEARCH GROUPS. 
$13.50

THE NATION'S LEADING ENVIRONMENTAL LOBBY. 
$13.00 


COME TO AN INFORMATION ORDER MONDAY-FRIDAY 4-Bpm AT THE JPW OFFICE (3rd FLOOR

SESSION 
LaFORTUNE, REYNOLDS ROOM) UNTIL FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8th.
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 3 AT 7:00PM 
PICK-UP GIFTS ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13th OR THURSDAY,
IN ROOM 114 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
FEBRUARY 14th.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 4,5 CONTACT CAREER, PLACEMENT TO SCHEDULE OR CAI..L OFflCE 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-6028 
CATHIE CURRIE AT [617] 292-4805 

The Lord's promise is that He is in our midst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened hy this conviction, we beseech the Risen Christ to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen of Peace, to intercede for us and for the peoples of our time... (The Challenge of Peace, ~ 292) 
A CALL TO PRAYER FOR PEACE 
This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special Mass for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1991-5:15 P.M. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., Celebrant and Homilist 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in this 
war: 

Kevin O'Brien Mary Pat Goverkar Carol Gebo James Jenista Peter Van Es Arthur Navaro 
Andrew Peterson Elizabeth Ruiz John Gerth Patrick Kelleher Sean Dillon Rev. Wm. Dorwart, CSC Kelly Townsend Benjamin Pangelinan Michael Coates Jeff Mirer Joe Sullivan Joey Brenner Jim Chappel Pete Witty Pat carr Joey Graber Kyle Bain Jeff Johansen John Lriesdale Kathleen Regan Alexander Navarro Arthur Navarro Brad Linsley Anthony Sullivan George Uzarralde Bob Heinke Ronnie Mack Brian Gannon Simon Shimble 
Sean Reilly Pat Timon Joseph Bile Javier Martinez Christine Glavin Alexander Navaro 
Steve Peeler Marty Sears Brian Maher Andy Barlow Peter Haynes John Mullane Patrick Hirl Mark Rakow Jonathan Reinebold Danny stoeffel David Gagnon Peter Read Martin Schubert Brian Schiller Joel Miller Dan Scarnavack Brian Bott Scott Mcintyre Brett Steele Peter Barlock Chris Hashem Marty McNicholas Jimmy Wagner John Winkler Frank Zimmerman Tim Royston Brad Sandars Thomas Mullen Jed Aldridge 

Allen Hunt Bob Henks Peter Murphy Mico Holguin Diane Fain Odie van Opdorp John Coniffe Edward Hiar James Van Sickland Todd Bentley Brian Rixon Tom Porter Scott Peters William Marchant Jim Gass Mark Gatto Joe Bystedt Paul Goodman Bob McCarthy Matt Scarnavack Mike Sly Beau Giggy John Carey Simon Lissner Pat Markivitch Prue Brownley John Gerth Russ Jenkins Janet Fierst Paul Moberly Marty Cox Steve Cox Tommy Dyke 
Please let us know of additional names missing from this list. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 103 Hesburgh Library 



The Observer 

page 14 Thursday, January 31, 1991 

.i 
I!i 
I' 
t 
:\I' I 
_\ \ 
~l 
( 
~\ 
ll 
l ~ 
I \ 
~ I~
,\' 
i_ 
. ~ 
1
I 
) 
I 
c ~ 
~ 
,J 
~\;~; ...
:, 
\ 
I 
~ 
ISlj \ . 
' ( 
I 
~··; 
,i; 
jl 
F
·I 
~ ( 
l\ 
1\ 
.. 
i'· 
I r,) l :-r\' 
!({ i~ 
I { 
I 
(, . ':)l 1,: .llI ~­
Eagles 
continued from page 16 

Corey Beasley averages 7.0 ppg. The Eagles will likely use three guards -sophomore Uor Arditti (5.1 ppg) and freshmen Howard Eisley (10.) ppg) and Malcolm Huckaby (6.7 ppg). 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
1 

Fellowship of Christian Athletes will host bible study today at 7 p.m., basement of Pangborn. Come out for loads of fun. Question? Call Mark Zoia, x1606. 
ND/SMC Women's Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting today at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, St. Mary's. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
ND/SMC Women's Lacrosse is looking for a coach. Anyone interested, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30 p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
Anyone interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due this Friday, Feb. 1. Any questions or comments should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 234-8817. 
Road 
continued from page 16 

playing very well," McGraw said. "(Starry's) tough for us to defend on the perimeter, so if we can handle those two, we'll be in good shape." 
Like the last two Irish oppo-
Julian 
continued from page 16 

Welsh's "ability to create a team concept is one of the finest around." 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. 
South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self ..knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chica~o medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
JUNIORS 
Anyone interested in being the Chairperson of the Class of 1992's Senior Fonnal please pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, floor LaFortune. Deadline: Feb. 6 
.LtWe, 
'PU)-2, 
e~2, 
Sue, 
~, 
& 'J::.e. 

Happy 21st Birthday! 
Boston College has picked us impressive non-conference vic­tories over Memphis State in the Dodge-NIT Classic and Maryland in the Big East-ACC Challenge. Its lone conference win came over Providence in early December. 
nents, the Lady Aces shoot lots of threes -Evansville leads the NCAA with 7.6 treys per game. But Notre Dame's 74-50 victory over Xavier Tuesday night demonstrated it too has the ability to launch threes. 
As a team, the Irish shoot 
37.5 percent from three-point range, and Coquese 
Welsh feels Julian's contribu­tions on deck and in the office have helped the Irish in all aspects: technically, organiza­tionally and mentally. The re­sult -"a far better Irish pro­gram this year," Welsh said. 
ann.ounces the opening of a 

Men's swim team douses Flames 
Flames, 150-89. Notre Dame swept places one through three 

mum team depth in beating the l::~~~~~5f.~~~~~~~~~~~~l
in the 1000 freestyle and one • ors through four in the 200 free. ~ • sen1 ­
co-captain Brian Rini led the E~lt~Ut~1~0~n~~~:-1
Irish attack by winning two 
consecutive events, the 1000 and 200 freestyles. Co-captainPaul Godfrey also recorded double wins in the 400 individ­ual medley (4:18.27) and the 500 free. Jim Birmingham touched the wall close behind Rini and placed second in the 
5oofree. 
Washington's 52.9 percent would place her among the MCC leaders. She doesn't qualify, however, because she has not shot enough from behind the arc. 
But, then again, when you're beating league opponents by over 25 points per game, you don't really need to. 
"It's a tremendous gift to the program to have someone at Notre Dame in order to help swimming. Randy loves swimming and it communi­cates," said Welsh. 

Late Night Olympics Dunk Tank Schedule Friday, February 1 Rolfs Aquatic Center 
9:00-9:30 BECKY WOOD-ND Swim team and Observer Writer 9:30-10:00 DEMETRIUS DUBOSE-ND linebacker 10:00-10:30 FRED TOMBAR-ND student body vice-president 10:30-11:00 MARK DUROCHER-U93 morning disc jockey 11:00-11:30 JEROME BETTIS-ND running back· 11:30-12:00 CAPT. GEORGE DEWHIRST-Naval ROTC Commander 12:00-12:30 LAPHONSO ELLIS-ND basketball player 
12:30-1:00  CHUCK FREEBY-WNDU sports reporter  
1:00-1:30  FR. GERRY LARDNER-Grace Hall rector  
1:30-2:00  JEFF JOTZ-WVFI disc jockey/music director  

50 cents for six balls All proceeds benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics 

,........ I troopS in the tt rs to ou t
Le e .
, ~. 1ddle t.as lVl brave
rt for OUr 

10 shOW surpo letter and sl~de soldiers, wnt~aor of the sentor it under the ~ffice by
Class february 8 
. addressed and Letters Wlllftbe the deadline. 
mailed a er . Call· 239-5136
Any Quest1ons · Mon. _ Fri.) 
fr m 3-5 pm.
(Office Hours o 

PHONZ SEZ 
"JUST 
DUNK ME" 

Saturday, Notre Dame hosts Northwestern, the second top ten team on the Irish schedule. Irish coach Tim Welsh feels his team should be in top form to race the Wildcats. 
"Their men have improved dramatically since last year. We'll have to be at our very best," said Welsh. 
·------··· 
OLYMPICS 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
Following weekend wins over Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure the Notre Dame men's swim team headed for Chicago and returned to South Bend with an improved record, 12-3. 
The Irish won only 7 of 13 meet events but utilized maxi-

Freshman Sean Hyer dove to double wins in the 1-meter and 3-meter diving events, while freshman Tim Gasperak claimed his first .collegiate vic­tory in the 100 butterfly in a time of :53.99. Bill Campbell, Jim Boutrous, Chuck Smith, Morgan Dailey, Jim Byrne and Patrick Cady also scored top places for the Irish. 


Thursday, January 31, 1991 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 

11:30 a.m. Hospitality Luncheon. Sponsored by Dismas House. Center for Social Concerns. 
3:30 p.m. Workshop: "How to Research Companies," Marilyn Rice, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. Foster Room, LaFortune. 
6:30 p.m. Workshop: "Effective Interviewing Workshop," Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7 p.m. Film: "Distant Voices, Still Lives," Snite Museum of Art. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "You Have No Beliefs: The Case for Eliminative Materialism," Professor William Ramsey, Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Sponsored by undergraduate phi­losophy majors. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "Beyond the Dream," Julian Bond, civil rights leader. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Pasta Faziole Spinach Cheese Tortellini Mini Meat Ravioli Fried Cheese Ravioli Mostaccoli!Spaghetti Meatballs/Marinara Sauce 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
ACROSS 27 --NaNa sa Actress Anouk 29 Like a bad back
1 Pack down firmly 
30 Tonsillectomy 59 A Vishnu Rx? incarnation
sEater: Comb. form 35 Energy 60 Equal sources?
14 Swan genus 62 Gobs 40"Comment
15 A Saarinen and 
allez---?"
namesakes 41 Begley Jr. and DOWN
16 Gap, in Mr.
Grenoble 1 Little Thumb42 Allspice17 Sad state 
2Carry--of
45 Train for a bout
19 Keyed up weight48 Vapid 
20 Game show for 3 Memorable young G.W.? 49 Marx treatise on Italian leader tough school
22 Shapely 4 Model 
courses?
moldings 
s Ecdysiast 23 Anagram for 
54 Army 6 City on the 
seek ss Owner 
Thames 24 Parsonage 57 lhasa­
7 Reckons, formerly a Gee's kin ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Caesar's being 
11 Wrangle 
13 Downs ofTV 18 Lily of the West 21 Emulate Mr. 
Chips 24 Darn! 33 Border upon 25 Kind of 34 Middle: Comb. chamber form 26 "Moonstruck" 36 Lulus 
star 37 Espouse 27 Bioi. and chem. 38 Ar chaser 28 --up 42 Twain character 
(excited) 43 "Stratonice" 30Apr. reaper painter 



47 Former N.Y. C. 53 .._ Like It I hotel Hot" 
I I
48 Kind of seltzer 56 Inexperienced I I IAnswers to any three clues in this 
I
puzzle are available by touch-tone 
I
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
I
minute). 
I I I I I I I I 
j 
I I I 
J 
I
JAY HOSLER 
I 
' 
I I I I 
j 
I I I I I I 
l J 
J 



Sports

page 16 Thursday, January 31, 1991 
\ 
\ Hoops teams ready for action 
\ l Men return home to host sliding Boston College Eagles 
h 
By GREG GUFFEY body. Now, he's getting standing Virginia, we played well except Sports Editor ovations on the road. for the last two minutes. We 
"That's what you do with wanted to close that gap. We

·' •. 
It was obvious someone had confidence and how you stick jumped out and then never lost to step up when Notre Dame with kids no matter what peo­the lead." lost leading scorer and re­ple think. They used to laugh at A win over Boston College bounder LaPhonso Ellis for the (former Irish center Tim) tonight would be a big boost for remainder of the season to Kempton and he's making the Irish with Duke coming in academic ineligibility. $850,000 playing in Italy." for a Saturday afternoon 
Most people just didn't think Tower had 12 points and contest. junior center Keith Tower eight rebounds two weeks ago The Eagles (9-9) have had a would take such a big step. against Marquette, the first nine-day layoff and have also 
Tower will again be a big key Irish game after losing Ellis. He struggled on the road, winning as the Irish host physical followed that with eight points just once in six attempts. They Boston College at 8 p.m. tonight all.d nine rebounds in a 62-52 are 1-6 in the always-powerful at the Joyce ACC. It will be the loss to Rutgers, and then Big East Conference. first of four consecutive home scored eight points with five Senior forward Doug Able is games for Notre Dame, 8-11 rebounds in another loss to the Boston College's sixth man after Tuesday's 73-67 victory at Virginia. and leads the team in scoring Dayton. The Irish finally put together at 11.8 points per game. Able 
Tower scored a career-high a complete game against the has scored in double figures on 22 points and grabbed 11 re­Flyers, building an early lead 10 occasions this season is just bounds in the win against the and then hanging on down the 62 points away from becoming Flyers, his fourth straight big stretch. That was a big confi­the 19th Eagle player to tally performance after the loss of dence builder since it came on 1,000 career points. Ellis. the heels of Virginia dominating Freshman center Billy Curley 
"Tower has really stepped up the final two minutes of last scores 11.4 ppg and pulls down a notch," Irish coach Digger Saturday's game for a come­6. 9 rebounds, while forward Phelps said. "A year ago, I went back victory. to sub Keith Tower and he was "We didn't take that as a getting booed by the student negative," Phelps said. "Against see EAGLES I page 14 
"· 
Women hit road for matchups with St. Louis, Evansville 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer  head coach Muffet McGraw hopes the team can break its pattern tonight at Kiel  hard for the starters to be up 30 and keep their intensity, so the bench needs to come in and  
Notre Dame hopes the "Gateway to the West" leads to  Auditorium. "When you're ranked in the  say, 'It's my turn to play now.'" After Saint Louis, Notre Dame  
two road victories this week­ Top 20, I don't think you can  travels to Evansville for a 3:30  
end. The 19th-ranked Irish women's basketball team trav­ feel complacent when you play anybody. You know every game is a big game," McGraw said.  '  p.m. EST matchup with the Lady Aces (9-9, 4-4) Saturday afternoon at Roberts Stadium.  
els to Saint Louis tonight to face the Billikens (0-15, 0-7) at 6 p.m. EST. before heading to Evansville Saturday.  Freshman Kristin Knapp, a key contributor off the Irish bench all season, concurred. "You have to prepare yourself  The Irish opened their season November 26th by beating Evansville 83-65 at the Joyce ACC. Karen Robinson scored a  
With its game against Saint Louis, Notre Dame (13-3, 8-0) will have faced every team in the MCC at least once. So far, the Irish have not faced a  for any team regardless of its record," Knapp said. "Sometimes, you come into a game thinking, 'This team's not as good as we are,' and you  career-high 26 points against the Lady Aces, and Notre Dame forced 26 Lady Ace turnovers with a pressuring man-to-man defense mixed in with a full­ 
< \ ; ', \ I r ·'\ Coquese Washington (above)  strong test from a conference opponent, and the Billikens should prove to be an equally engaging foe. Saint Louis' scoring threats are Kathy Purvis (12.1 ppg) and Donna Luechtefe (10.8 ppg). The Billikens have been outscored by an average of 30.5 points in their 15 losses-including an 115-33 thumping by 11th-ranked Western Kentucky-and commit 32 turnovers per game. Still, Notre Dame has had aThe Observer/David Lee tendency to play down to theand the Notre Dame women's basketball level of its opponents. Irish  think you can play lackadaisi­cally and still win. "But for us to stay in the Top 20 and keep moving up the poll, we have to mentally prepare ourselves and play our kind of game." Another problem the Irish have experienced has been building a big lead, only to let their minds wander and have their play suffer. McGraw be­lieves tonight's game is an op­portunity to work on keeping focused. "That's where the bench has to take over," she said. "It's  court press. For Evansville to have any chance, it must get strong games from Diane Starry (15.0 ppg, 6.2 rpg) and Amy Humphries (8.6 ppg, 5.5 as­sists). Starry is fourth in the MCC in scoring, as well as sixth in the NCAA in three-point per­centage (.508) while Humphries has the ability to break down a defense off the dribble. "(Humphries) gave us trouble with dribble penetration last game, and Diane Starry is see ROAD I page 14  


team hit the road today for contests with St. Louis and Evansville. 
Julian bolsters Irish swimming teams 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
He likes snow. 

Texas native Randy Julian, who finds he can relax when it rains and snows, has found his niche at Notre Dame as the first full-time assistant swim coach. In fact, the gray skies that often blanket the dome give Julian plenty of time to relax. 
Since August, Julian's relaxed personality has overfilled the shoes he stepped into when the athletic department created a full-time assistant swim coach position. Irish head coach Tim Welsh was excited when Julian showed an interest in Notre Dame's swim program, even though he didn't apply until the last day. 
"He is far more than the posi­tion might attract," Welsh said. "He's a head coach without an address." 
Julian's credentials are above average for an assistant 

Randy Julian 
coaching position. He began coaching in Houston in 1978. By 1982, Julian was the head coach of Dad's club, a swim­ming powerhouse in Texas. Under Julian's direction, Dad's produced five Olympic Trial Swimmers, one National YMCA title in 1985 and sent swimmers to several World University Games. 
In 1988 Julian took the op­portunity to get his feet wet in college coaching when he be­came assistant coach at Southern Illinois University. He helped the Sulkies to a 9-2 record and a 20th-place finish in the NCAA Championships. 
He then heard about the Notre Dame position and sug­gested a fellow coach apply. Julian changed his mind and applied after seeing Notre Dame as "a definite progressive program." 
"The athletic department is very supportive and enthusias­tic about this program being a major fixture on the national level," said Julian, citing a ma­jor strength of the program. We're not where we want to be yet but we will overcome that. If we get any three of the top ten people we're recruiting, we'll have moved this program forward." 
As for coaching alongside Welsh, Julian emphasized 
see JULIAN 1 page 14 

Women's swimmers dunk Illinois-Chicago 
By BECKY WOOD and Karen Keeley to first, sec­Sports Writer ond and third place finishes in the 400 yard individual medley. 
Coming off a successful road Moston also finished first in trip against Cleveland State the 500 yard freestyle, followed and St. Bonaventure, the Notre by Kathleen McKinney and Dame women's swim team Jackie Jones. continued to spread the word Kipp captured first in both on its strength and power in the 1-meter and 3-meter diving Chicago. events, while seniors Tracie 
The Irist. downed University O'Connell and Amy Tri won the of Illinois-Chicago Tuesday 100 breaststroke (1:10.23) and night, 145-90. The contest was the 1000 freestyle (11 :08.00), decisive. Notre Dame won respectively. eight of eleven individual Junior Shana Stephens (100 events against a thin Flames butterfly) and Broderick (1 00 squad. backstroke) also scored two 
"They gave us great races on Irish firsts. their number one person. but their lack of team size hurt This week the Irish prepare them," said Assistant coach to race against Northwestern, Randy Julian. the second top ten team on the 
Senior Christy Moston and Notre Dame schedule. The 
~unior Jenny Kipp scored dou­Wildcats finished tenth at the 
ble wins for the Irish. Moston NCAA Championships last 
led teammates Kay Broderick March in Austin, Texas. 




