
TheObserver/Sean Fama 
Taste of Notre Dame 
(left to right) Ron lvkovich offers Notre Dame students Cindy Kleczewski and Ann Lang some of South Bend's finest foods. 
Professor praises Yeltsin 
By SANDY WIEGAND were the idea of democracy News Writer and "the personality of Yeltsin," said Grazin. 
Pride and renewed According to Grazin, a turning confidence in democracy were point came when much of the visible on the faces of Soviet army gathered to back Moscow's citizens after the Yeltsin, since before the failed coup d'etat attempt, . attempted coup, no one was according to Igor Grazin, a certain where the army's al­vislting law professor from liance stood, Grazin said. Estonia, who came to Notre "I don't know that even Dame last week from the Yeltsin could have predicted it Soviet capital. would last only two days," 
Grazln spoke with citizens Grazin commented. ''I'm not in the streets of Moscow after sure he knew just how strong Gorbachev was reinstated. and how powerful be really The "psychological barrier" to was." democracy is gone now, he Yeltsin's hour has come, said. "An absolutely new na-Grazin said, and Gorbachev's lion has been born. has passed. "I'm ready to Communist slavery is over." build all the monuments to 
Grazin listened to an inde-him in the world, but the time pendent radio station "Echo of for semi-measures is over," Moscow" during the conflict Grazin said. and said there was little inter-There is no longer any ference with the broadcast. political barrier to a Soviet ­Citizens could hear a or Russian -democracy, "militantly anti-junta" account Grazin said. Yeltsin has of the conflict rather than always stressed Russian unity government propaganda, rather than Soviet unity, added Grazin. Grazin said, as demonstrated 
Although he said he concen-by Yeltsin's acknowledgement trates on his teaching profes-of the independence of former slon, Grazln is no stranger to Soviet states Estonia and Soviet politics. He was a Latvia. member of a Supreme Soviet committee for construction Massive aid from the United and architecture In 1989 and States is not appropriate now, 1990 on which Boris Yeltsin Grazin said, but the way is served as a chairman, and he open for investment in Russia, has maintained relationships since there is no longer any 
with a number of Soviet danger that the government leaders. will confiscate businesses. The people's only real Technical assistance is also 
weapons against the junta Important, Grazin added. 
server 

VOL XXIV NO 2 

Du Lac manual revised · 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Four areas of change were 
implemented this summer in du 
Lac, most notably the inclusion 
of a stricter alcohol policy and 
a discriminatory harassment 
policy. 
The alcohol policy, formally implemented in 1984, was modified in response to what the University viewed as a problem of "large quantities of alcohol" being openly trans­ported on campus, according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. 
The new provision in du Lac states that "those of legal age may only possess or transport in any public area of campus an amount of alcohol which is consistent with the concept of responsible individual con­sumption." 
When a student of legal age is transporting alcohol, the alco­hol must be in a closed con­tainer with "suitable packag­ing," defined by duLac as a bag or box. 
The change also states that "alcohol may not be provided for those who are under:age." 
Du Lac defines "provide" as 
selling, lending, giving, ex­
changing, bartering or furnish­
ing in "any way." 
For underage students, the 
provision in du Lac regarding 
transportation remains the 
same, stating that "no underage 
person may possess or 
transport alcoholic beverages in 
any public area of campus." 
VIolation of the policy will be handled by rectors if the inci­dent occurs in the residence hall. However, if the violation in another part of campus, the student will be referred to the Office of Residence Life. 
Enforcement of the policy will vary from case to case, Kirk said. While he said that it is "not common" that campus se­curity will randomly stop stu­dents transporting alcohol to check for IDs, students spotted with large quantities will be stopped "regardless of age." 
While the key words of the transportation provision seem to be "responsible individual consumption," Kirk admitted that the phrase is not com­pletely clear. He noted that rec­tors, residence assistants, and Security may all have different 
ideas about what the average 
individual could claim as an 
amount equal to respqnsible 
consumption. 
"But," he said, "anything short of being a dry campus leaves a gray area." 
Kirk stressed that the change is simply a modification of the overall alcohol policy. "There's no hidden agenda here," he said, "no grand scheme or plan." 
He said that the change re­flects the Officers of the Uni­versity's opinion that an alcohol policy promoting responsible drinking is preferable to a dry campus. "If they had thought we should go dry now, they would have [decided to]." 
The purpose of the policy change is twofold, according to Kirk. First, the portion aimed at underage drinkers is to "remind students of their obligation under Indiana law" that possession of alcohol is illegal. 
Secondly, Kirk said the rule aimed at legal drinkers will promote a more educated and responsible attitude toward al­cohol consumption. 
see Du Lac I page 6 

Republics breaking away 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev struggled Sunday to stem the disintegra­tion of his authority, but a sixth Soviet republic declared independence and Russian leader Boris Yeltsin continued to assert control. 
Gorbachev huddled with top advisers, preparing a speech for the national legislature on Monday. But Yeltsin and other reformers said they wanted to bypass the largely conservative legislature and convene the more reformist Congress of People's Deputies. 
Yeltsin, speaking Sunday night on Russian television, said the national legislature should formally dissolve Gorbachev's Cabinet of Ministers, many of whose members were involved in last week's failed coup, including Prime Minister Valentin Pavlov. 
Yeltsin said he would prefer to call a session Tuesday of the Congress, the 2,250-member body that selects the 542-mem­ber legislature. 
"It's better to gather the Congress of People's Deputies a day later and decide all ques­tions straight away on the in­volvement of the Cabinet of Ministers, on the replacement, the structure, new cadres ­much will have to be changed," Yeltsin said in his televised re­marks. 
In the chaos created by the hard-line coup, the 15 Soviet republics were moving to assert their independence from Gor­bachev's central government. 
Byelorussian lawmakers passed an independence decla­ration, becoming the sixth re­public to do so. The Ukraine, the second-largest republic, de­clared its independence a day earlier. Georgia and the three Baltic republics have also de­clared independence. 
Said deputy Zenon Poznyak, head of Byelorussia's pro-inde­pendence People's Front fac­tion, "This means we are leav­ing the Soviet Unio~." 
The Moldavian legislature planned to discuss indepen­dence on Tuesday, the news agency Interfax reported. 
Meanwhile, France, Argentina, Norway and Denmark said they were recognizing the independence declarations of the three Baltic republics ­Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said he expected the United States to take the same step shortly. 
Gorbachev's spokesman, Vi­taly lgnatenko, acknowledged that "there's no one today to prevent the national republics from choosing their own road." 
Ignatenko, interviewed on CNN, stressed that Gorbachev wanted to keep the process within legal bounds. But events appeared to avalanche beyond Gorbachev's control. 
The failed coup led to a stun­ning upheaval of the Soviet power structure, culminating in Gorbachev's resignation Satur­day as Communist Party chief. 
Gorbachev also urged the party leadership to disband and barred the party from operating in the armed forces, gov­ernment, police, courts and KGB secret police. And he crip­pled it financially by ordering its vast holdings turned over to the parliament. 
In continued fallout from the coup attempt, Gorbachev's top military adviser, Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, 68, committed suicide on Saturday, presidential aide Karen Karagezian said. He offered no details. 
On his desk, investigators found a suicide note and a statement from the coup plot­ters telling him how to act when their putsch began, Russian television reported. 
The suicide note said in part, "Everything I have devoted my life to building is collapsing," the TV reported without elabo­ration. A Yeltsin spokesman said he knew of no evidence linking Ak.hromeyev to the con­spiracy. 
Gorbachev, held under house arrest during the 63-hour coup attempt, met Sunday with former adviser Alexander Yakovlev and aide Yevgeny Primakov to prepare measures he will propose to the legisla­ture for coping with the crisis. He also will address the fate of parliamentary speaker Anatoly 
see Republic I page 7 

Notre Dame student mugged in his own front yard 

By MONICA YANT News Editor 
Less than 24 hours after moving into his off-campus house on California Ave., senior Steve Kozachok was mugged and robbed in his own yard. 
For Kozachok, the incident was more than a rude welcome back to school. It was a painful reminder that "you aren't safe. Anywhere." 
The incident occurred around 
10 p.m. Sunday evening. Koza­chok and two of his roommates had walked across the street to a convenience store when they noticed a group of approxi­mately seven youths playing nearby. 
Having already met and en­tertained some of the neigh­borhood kids, the students didn't really think anything of it. "There's no way I thought that they would beat us up," he said. 
Moments later, one of the youths, who Kozachok de­scribed as black males between the ages of 12-17, approached them. 
By this time the group was in 
see mugging I page 8 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
FORECAST: Mostly sunny and 
hot today. Highs in the lower 90s. Fair and warm tonight. 
Lows around 70. 
TEMPERATURES: 

One year until seniors face 'Real Life' Well,.the freshmen have------­had their turn in the spotlight all weekend. Every R.A., rector, parent and freshman orientation committee member have devoted incredible amounts of time and energy to making this a Lisa Eaton weekend to remember. Managing Now they are as ready as they are going to get to embark on the whole college experience. There is no turning back now for the freshmen-love it or not (and I'm sure that they'll do a little of both in the next four years) they are bonafide college students ready to give it their all for old Notre Dame. But this column isn't for the freshmen, it is for for those of us who are preparing to walk those last few miles to that fateful day in May when we will get our walking papers and will be able to fly this coop for parts unknown. Love it or hate it, all of u~ seniors are getting ready to to stare into the ugly face of reality and right now we are all hoping that we don't flinch. The seniors are wondering about the big four letter word beginning with "L," namely LIFE. "Will I be able to get a job when I graduate?" "Where will I be living next year?" "Will I be mooching off of the parental unit for the rest of my life?" are all questions that float through the nightmares of the typical senior. A poll should be taken to try to get some sort of an idea how may times this year's class of seniors has been asked what they are planning to do after they graduate. A cautious guess might put the total well into the trillions. Oh sure, we've conquered the college scene with grace and style for the past three years. Most of us survived Freshman Chern, choosing a major and JPW like a troopers. We can do it all with the best of 'em. (We are THE Sesquicentennial Class, so of course anything less than the best would be unworthy of us.) But now, the realization that very soon most of us are going to become really, really, really tiny fiSh in this huge, gigantic, enormous sea called "Real Life." It is kind of a scary thought. Actually, it is a really, r~ally scary thought. Despite the fact that the seniors are on the brink of a very serious life change, we are, of course, going to handle this with all of the style and grace that we have shown in the past three years. Sure, we are walking towards the door that will push us out into the real world, but our party isn't over yet. So, I would like to propose a toast (sparkling grape juice for all of the freshmen and those of us who are still underage). To the freshmen, mat they have a great four years. May they love it and hate it and learn a lot regardless. To the seniors, it has been the best of times and the worst of times, but we survived it all. So here's to one fmal year of fun, football and friends.  
Today's taft: News Photographers Ann Hartman John Clover Meredith McCullough Marguerite Schropp Production John Rock Cristina Ortiz Sean Farnan Cathy Fang VIewpoint Accent Matt Helminiak John O'Brien Sports Rene Ferran The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston 
Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miarri Beach Moscow New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome St. Louis San Fran cisco seanle South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C 
H  L  
88  70  
78  71  
68  54  
67  57  
95  75  
93  70  
93  62  
87  68  
89  79  
93  71  
91  68  
81  63  
82  65  
95  68  .  
89  75  .  
66  43  
79  62  
81  61  
82  65  
93  68  
96  73  
64  55  
72  51  
80  68  
88  70  
83  67  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
Community looses active volunteer 
Mary Fischer, wife of Edward fischer, professor emeritus 

Boy asks for help to fulfill last wish 
of American studies at Notre Dame, died August 7 at Craig Shergold, a 7 -year-old from Morristown, Tenn., has Saint Joseph's Medical Center. She was 76 years old. Mrs. 
a brain tumor, and doctors have given him little time to Fischer was an active and prominent volunteer in a wide live. He recently told the Children's Wish Foundation variety of community service groups, which ranged from that, as his last wish, he would like to earn a place in the hosting a weekly community affairs talk show on WNIT­
Guiness Book of World Records for the most "get well TV to collecting bed linen for the Catholic Worker House. wishes" received by an individual. Anyone interested in She also served as a tour guide for the Office of Public sending a get-well wish to Craig should write to Craig Relations and Information, the Snite Museum of Art and Shergold, c/o Children's Wish Foundation, 3200 Sacred Heart Church. Perimeter Center East, Suite 100, Atlanta, GA 30346. 
Sorin Society names new chairman 
Texaco Inc. Chairman of the Board Alfred C. DeCrane, Jr., a 1953 graduate of Notre Dame, has been named the new chairman of the University's Edward Frederick Sorin Past NO basketball coach dies Society, comprised of alumni and other benefactors who John Jordan, head basketball coach at Notre Dame from contribute $1,000 or more annually in unrestricted gifts. 1951-64, died in the Chicago suburb of Evergreen Park DeCrane replaces Edmond Haggar, chairman of the this past June. He was 80 years old. Jordan, a three-year 
board of Haggar Apparel Company, who completed his monogram winner and captain of the 1934-35 Notre second two-year term in April. During Haggar's Dame team, succeeded Ed "Moose" Krause as Notre chairmanship, the Sorin Society tripled in size to 4,630 Dame's basketball coach and led ND to its first six NCAA members and in 1990 raised a record $4.5 million. tournament appearances. His 13-year record as head 
DeCrane, 60, earned a bachelor degree from Notre Dame coach was 199-131. He was named the Notre Dame in 1953. Monogram Club's Man of the Year in 1988. 
OF INTEREST 

•No off-campus students can establish their telephone, gas, electric and cable television service at a special STORE (Student Order Entry System) offered by Indiana Bell at Theodore's today and tomorrow from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. 
IITryouts for the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the SMC/ND Collegiate Choir will be held today from 1-4 p.m. and tomorrow from noon-4 p.m. in Room 308 Moreau Hall. 
•The Welcome Back Picnic will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, August 28, at Stepan Field from 4:45-6:45 
p.m. The dining halls will be closed for dinner tomorrow. 
•rhe ND Marching Band has openings on all in­struments. For registration and complete information, come to the Koons Band Building as soon as possible or call239-7136. 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/August 26 

380.52 .23 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,039.36 • .89 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 128.40 Million 215.61 
.14 ,.,.JD,.,.,.,.,...._,..-"'l__.-..,_s,&J COMPOSITE 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD"(} $ 1.80to $355.20/oz. 
sn..VERf' .6¢ to $3.93/oz. 

Tuesday,August27, 1991 The Observer 
page 3 

Notre Dame suffers tragic summer losses; students will be missed by peers and faculty 

Student falls asleep at wheel on way home from spring term 
By DAVID KINNEY Her friends said that she was 
Assistant News Editor the kind of person who went 
after every opportunity she 
Caroline Schippereit, a 1991-could find. "She wanted to ex­
1992 Notre Dame sophomore, 
perience everything that she 
was killed May 21 when she fell possibly could -right now," said 
asleep while driving to her McKee, a close friend. 
home in Springfield, Va. 
Schippereit was driving home Schippereit was an outgoing after her sister's graduation individual, according to Bardos. from Notre Dame the previous "She'd go into a room full of weekend. In Maryland, she and strangers and ten minutes later her passenger, rising ND senior she could be friends with all of John McKee, fell asleep and the them," she said. car flipped; McKee was not se­Her friends agreed that she riously Injured in the accident. had a true zest for life. "She 
really liked Notre Dame a lot. 
Schippereit, an engineering She loved the people," said major, was very involved in Bardos. drama throughout high school Bardos said that it has been and at Notre Dame, according difficult to deal with Schip­to roommate Agi Bardos. She Caroline Schippereit pereit's death. "You just don't participated in some freshman expect it at all," she said. "We'll productions, Including the planning to serve as an inter­miss her a lot." 
Freshman Four. dorm chairperson for Pas­Schippereit's parents, Mr. and 
Bardos said that she was also querilla East this year. At home, Mrs. Stuart Schippereit, plan to very active In the dorm. Not she spent time working with come to Notre Dame for a only did she run for freshman her church youth group, Bardos memorial service sometime this 
class office, but she was also said. fall, Bardos said. 




Notre Dame ranks high in CAE annual report for 1990 
Special to The Observer Dame ranked third among pri­Hopkins University. 
vate universities in parental The market value of Notre 
The University of Notre Dame support ($3.1 million), behind Dame's endowment ($605.6 
only Princeton University and million) ranked 15th in the
ranks first among the nation's Catholic universities and 16th Boston College and third also in country. 
corporate matching gifts ($2.4 In support from corporationsamong all private universities in million), behind only Harvard and businesses, Notre Damevoluntary support, according to and Yale Universities. ranked 17th ($10.1 million),the annual report of the Council Notre Dame was fifth among and in foundation grants, 24thfor Aid to Education (CAE). The all private universities in the ($8.4 million). Harvard, Yale,
report covers giving to 
percentage of solicited alumni and Duke Universities led all
American higher education 
who contributed ($1 percent), schools in foundation donations, during tho 1990 fiscal year. 
following Cornell University (62 while M.l.T. along with Stanford Notre Dame received a total percent), Dartmouth College (60 and Cornell Universitiesof $53,781,368 in private gifts, percent), and Duke and Lehigh received the most money fromgrants and bequests during fis­Universities (52 percent). Notre the business sector. 
cal 1990. This total excludes 
support received from federal, Dame ranked lOth in terms of dollars contributed by alumni CAE reported that overallstate and local government and ($24.7 million), behind six Ivy giving to American higher edu­their agencies, as well as from League institutions, Stanford cation was up 10 percent incontract research. 
University, M.I.T., and Johns 1990.
According to CAE, Notre 
1991-1992 Pangborn RA dies in Memorial Day boating accident 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Rising Notre Dame senior Jeff Engelmeier, of Springfield, Ohio, was killed over Memorial Day weekend after he was thrown from a boat and was unable to resurface. 
Engelmeier had been boating and water-skiing on the Ohio River with several friends. He suffered head injuries after the wake from a passing barge threw Engelmeier from the boat; he had removed his life jacket earlier when they had stopped the boat for gas. His body was recovered two days 

Jeff Engelmeler 

later on the river. 
Engelmeier was an Army 
"I could just tell he cared,"ROTC cadet and had been se­Rambasek continued. 

lected to be a resident assistant in Pangborn Hall. He was pur­Easy-going and easy to getsuing a double-major in Ger­
along with, Engelmeier was

man and pre-med. 
known for his sharp golf game. Much of his time was spent with Rector Wilfred Borden and ROTC work and the Germanseveral friends of Engelmeier 

club, however, according to

said that he was a well-liked friend Roger Vonhaefen. 
person in Pangborn and in his ROTC group. "He was, by far, About 60 people from Notrethe best person I have met here 
Dame attended Engelmeier's 

as a friend," said Dan White­
funeral services on June 3,

hair, his roommate for three from both Pangborn Hall and years. 
ROTC, said Vonhaefen. "I'd say he was the best-liked guy in theAnother friend, Todd Ram­dorm," he said. 

basek, said that Engelmeier was a very responsible person, 
His parents, Mr. and Mrs.

and "he never gave anybody a 
Paul Engelmeier will be at

hard time." He said that as soon Notre Dame on Thursday, Au­
as Engelmeier was selected 
gust 29, for a 5 p.m. memorialresident assistant, he tried to service at Sacred Heart Church; pull together the people that University President Father

would be in his section and Edward Malloy and Father
include them in the dorm activi­Borden will preside.
ties. 

Am.erican Red Cross 



CLUBS &ORGANIZATIONS! 
MAKE SURE YOU'VE SIGNED UP FOR 
CAMPOS ACTIVITIES NIGHT! 
September 3rd 
Un1ited space still available Stop by Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune 
Deadline: Thursday Aug. 29th For more info call 239-7308 
A 60 percent black screen can be used lor the cross only far newspaper and magazine ads. 


American Red Cross 
, Welcome Hack ~005 STUDENTS 
(I Lasagna, Homemade Spaghetti, Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
· Sat 1213 Lincolnway West Closed Sunday 256-1444 Mishawaka 10% discount on dinners for Just East of 1 00 Center ND/SMC students with 10 or r.oupon 
is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Associate News Editor News Copy Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, August 30. 



---~ --------------------~------·------~ 

The Observer
page4 Tuesday, August 27,1991 


'Housekeeper's Week' shows appreciation to Notre Dame and Morris Inn employees 



Notre Dame professor appointed to theology chair 

By PATRICK THOMAS News Writer 
With the approach of National Housekeeper's Week, Sept. 8­14, Notre Dame's Support Services along with the Morris Inn have planned a four-part reception for all building services personnel to take place Sept. 11. 
The celebration is a recogni­tion of all the work done on campus and at the Morris Inn in connection with building ser­vices. There are approximately 265 employees in building ser­vices, according to Alan Bigger, registered executive house­keeper.

A moment on the lips? 
Members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community indulge in a moment of pleasant conversation "We want to let our personnel 
as they enjoy a cool, refreshing treat and take a break from the many activities that kept new understand that they are ap­
freshmen and their parents busy this weekend. preciated and their work is not 
Special to The Observer 
Lawrence Cunningham, pro­fessor of theology at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, has been appointed chair of the University's department of the­ology, according to Timothy O'Meara, the University's provost. 
He succeeds Father Richard McBrien, chair of the depart­ment since 1980. McBrien will 
Administrators announced atSMC 
Special to The Observer 
Two new administrative appointments were announced recently at Saint Mary's College. 
Kaye Ferguson-Patton joins the College as vice president for college relations. Ferguson-Patton is the former vice president for development and public relations for Lutheran Social Services of Michigan, with whom she had served since 1985. '·•e;pri!iWII}'\'cii> '·. 
From 1974 to 1985 she worked as an advertising agency executive in Memphis, Tenn., and from 1960 to 1974 held a variety of positions in the broadcasting industry, in­cluding reporting and anchor duties at KERO-TV in Bakersfield, Calif. A graduate or Michigan State University, Ferguson-Patton will oversee the areas of development, alumnae relations and college communications at Saint Mary's. 
Barbara Butler Henry is the College's new director of alumnae relations. A 1985 graduate of Saint Mary's, Henry is a former account executive with Villing and Co., a Mishawaka marketing and advertising firm. Henry's responsibilities at the College include the coordi­nation of all alumnae activities and programs. 
continue to teach, write and conduct research as Crowley­O'Brien Walter Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. 
"In the span of just three years on the Notre Dame fac­ulty, Larry Cunningham has made a deep impression on his peers with the quality of his teaching, the distinction of his scholarship, and the evidence of his leadership qualities," O'Meara said. 

United flight hero retires at age 60 
SEATTLE (AP) -The United Airlines pilot credited with saving 184 lives when he crash­landed a crippled DC-10 in an Iowa cornfield two years ago made his final flight on Monday, joined by other survivors. 
Capt. AI Haynes, who reaches the mandatory federal retirement age of 60 on Saturday, resisted being labeled a hero. 
"If going to call me a
hero, you're going to have to 
call everyone a hero," Haynes 
told about 250 people who 
welcomed him at Seattle-1­Tacoma International Airport after his last commercial run, United Flight 455 from Denver. 
His wife, Darlene, said: "He's always been a hero to us all, but that doesn't excuse him from taking out the garbage." 
Earlier Monday, Haynes told reporters at Denver's Stapleton International Airport he was "one of thousands" who helped save lives of those aboard Flight 232, which crashed near Sioux City, Iowa. 
"That's about the size of it," said Haynes. "It was a team effort right on down the line." 
On July 19, 1989, United Flight 232 lost hydraulic power. Haynes couldn't use control surfaces on the wings and tail to direct the plane. 
centers of theological study in 

"At the same time," added the world." O'Meara, "Cunningham exem­plifies the exceptional appoint­Cunningham, whose scholar­ments made to the theology ship encompasses a range of faculty during Dick McBrien's studies including religion, cul­eleven years as chairman. ture and values; the nature of 
saintliness; and the quest for 

As the result of Dick's faith, came to Notre Dame in leadership and personal 1988 after 21 years on the fac­visibility, the department has ulty of Florida State University. strengthened its Catholic focus He is the translator of two and earned the distinction of books and the author of 11, in­ranking among the premier cluding "The Catholic Faith: An Introduction," winner of the Catholic Press Association's 1987 award for the best book on Catholicism. 
Cunningham received his masters degree and a doctorate from Florida State. He holds a bachelor's degree in philosophy from St. Bernard's College in Rochester, N.Y., and an S.T.L. in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome. Cunning­ham and his wife, Cecilia, have two children. 
unnoticed," said Col. David Woods, director of Student Services. 
Notre Dame and the Morris Inn are co-sponsoring the re­ception in part because of the university's high profile as the second most visited attraction in Indiana, according to Woods. 
This campus recognition clearly expresses a larger community commendation which is not always wholly con­spicuous, according to Woods. 
Bigger and Joe Couch of the Morris Inn are the strategic organizers of this second an­nual event to be held on campus at 7 a.m., 1 p.m., 3 p.m., and 5 p.m. in the Support Services training room. 


/ 
---~---~-----~-----~ 

Tuesday,August27, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Average SAT scores decline 



SAT average scores slump 
(AP) -Scholastic Aptitude Test 

v------Puerto Rican 1% 
1. At a certain bakery, 
cakes, doughnuts, and cookies 



: · 
I 
American Indian 1% 
•1969 through 1971 are estimates 
White 
72% 
scores fell to a record low last year in verbal skills, The College Board reported today. Math scores also sank for the first time since 1980. 
Board president Donald Stewart said the drop signaled a "disturbing pattern of educational disparity" in which too many students aren't studying enough advanced high school courses to do well on the college entrance examination. 
Math averages declined two points to 474 among students taking the test in the 1990-91 school year, while scores on the verbal section averaged 422. 
The verbal averages were the lowest since national records were kept in 1969. Verbal scores hit a recent peak of 431 in 1985, but have slid steadily ever since. 
Both sections of the multiple choice exam taken by more than 1 million high school students are scored on a scale of 200-800, with a combined 1600 being the highest possible. 
NEW YORK (AP) -How tough is the SAT? Here are questions and an­swers from a test
Ethnic Breakdown 
administered on Nov. 3, 1990, Black 10°k 
reprinted by permission of the Educational Testing Service. 
Asian American 8% Mexican American 3% 
QUESTIONS 
Other Hispanic 3% 
MATH: 
are baked in the ratio of 2:3:5, respectively. If 150
..:::~Jl~l~I]M~U~l~Il~~~ll~li~~~!U~~lii!~II~~M!l!l~lillll!lHl~I~llft1tltli1tiiUUh~::::~her 2% 
doughnuts are baked, how · 
Source: The College Board AP/Martha P. Hernandez 
many cookies are baked? (A) 90 (B) 100 (C) 200 (D) 250 (E) 750



Give. 
&-:aAmerican Heart 
The College Board, a private, non-profit education 
organization, sponsors the test. 
Board officials attributed the declines to factors in and out of school, including a steady increase In nm;nber of minority pupils taking the test but who generally score well below the national averages. 
Such students now make up 28 percent of SAT test-takers, compared with 11 percent in 1973, the board reported. 
They also said many schools aren't assigning enough homework, aren't stressing writing, and are offering students watered-down math. Many also blame parents who allow too much television and do little to encourage outside reading. 
Iowa had the highest average among the 50 states: 515 verbal, 578 math. But only 5 percent took the SAT, mainly those seeking admission to top private schools. South Carolina, where 58 percent took the test, 
averaged the lowest verbal, 437 math.  - 395  
VERBAL: Directions:  Select  the  

lettered pair that best expresses a relationship similar to that expressed in the original pair. 
1. VULNERABLE-INJURY: 
(A) 
impressionable influence 

(B) 
restr.ained -feeling 

(C) 
guilty--' confession 

(D) 
cautious -danger 

(E) 
coerced -choice 


ANSWERS 
MATH: 
1 Answer is (D): correctly answered by 66 percent of test-takers. VERBAL: 
1. Answer is (A); correctly answered by 49 percent of test-takers. 

~Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING Frn 

WE'RE PUTDIG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS.
YOJR LIFE 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 

CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DOWTGO 
INTO THE KHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 
272•4135 
•••••• 0 ••••• 0 0 ••••••••••••••••• 0 • 

• • • • • • 0 •• 0 0 0 •• 
• •• 0 ••••••••• 0 •••• 0 0 • ••••••••• 0 ••• 

0 • 0 ••••••••••••• 0 •
::::::::FREsHMAN ~W£tcoM-E W£-Ei<::::::::: 
::::::::::::::::::::TONIGHT' ............ ::::::::: 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ !·M~~~ v6tir: oW~~ s~hd~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
.................... : : :*F.R.. E ..E.1r: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
0 ••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 ••••• 0 •••••••• 0 •••••• 0 • 
:::::::::::::::::: cr".o:N:D·: F.r"e"s'h"m"·e·n·)·:::::::::::::::::::
0 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0. • • • • • • • • 0 • • • 0 • • • • • 
....................... g· 10 ·prti ....................... . ::::::::::::::::::: :1.n::T·H':"EOD.OR·£-'S.::::::::::::::::::::: 
• 0 •••••••• 0 • 0 ••••••• 
: : : : : : : : : : :z~~ :~I99ri t~~ffituite: stud~~i ~~~i~: : : : : : : : : : : : 
::::::::::wEDNESDAY :AuGtis1<28:::::::::::
. ..................... J . ......................... . 
:::::::::'~FRESHMAN MOVIE: NIGHT!':: :: : : : : :: 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :*f.R.. E.:E:*: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........................ . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ''FERRis suti.i.tR':s>o.Av:otr": : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
................ · · · · · · "(CUSHIN~) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : i:=~o f>~ ~ 9:3o:.>,n: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
· ~ · · ......... For more.informaiioit :Calf139~73(jS : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
....................................................... 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
--------------------~--------­
The Observer 
page 6 Tuesday,August27, 1991 
trinsic value of all human be­ing the race, sex, religion, sex­sources. the Office of Residence Life andDuLac ings" and "is committed to the ual orientation, or national •Incidents involving an ad­the local police; full peaceable participation of origin of the victim(s)." ministrator should be handled •Rape crisis agency services continued from page 1 all its members in the educa­All types of discriminatory by the appropriate superior of-· through the Sex Offense Ser­tional endeavor it fosters." harassment are prohibited by fleer of the person involved. vices (S.O.S.);
According to Kirk, over 50 The policy defines harassment the policy, and students are en­The policy also provides for a •Legal options through the St. 
percent of all incidents reported 
as "any physical conduct couraged by du Lac to report University ombudsperson, se­Joseph County Prosecutingto Residence Life involve intentionally inflicting injury on any allegations of such behavior lected by the President, "to help Attorney's office. alcohol, including rapes and the person or property of an­to University authorities as any complainant handle the In addition, the section lists 
accidents. 
other, or any intentional threat follows: matter formally or informally. several key phone numbers for "You attack so many more of such conduct." •If the incident occurs be­Support Services victims of sexual assault, as problems when you attack al­The University, however, re­tween students in the residence A new section added to du well as information about the cohol abuse," he said. 
mains "committed to the free halls, du Lac recommends re­Lac involves support services University's position of sensitiv­The changes to du Lac are in expression and advocacy of porting it first to the Rector, for victims or rape and sexual ity to victims of rape. 
effect until 1993. According to ideas," according to du Lac. who may later refer it to the assault. Personal Safety Kirk, there is a "standard revi­"For this reason, cases of verbal Office of Residence Life. The section states that the A final addition to du Lac was sionary period" of two years, harassment are defined here •Incidents of discriminatory University is committed to con­a new section on personal
although additional changes 
with great caution." harassment occurring between fidentiality in cases of sexual safety, which instructs students could be made before then if a According to du Lac, harass­students outside the residence assault. Furthermore, the Uni­how to be "streetwise" and safe. 
particular policy appeared to be ment is "any hostile intentional, hall, or by a student toward a versity is dedicated to honoring Kirk said the section is de­failing. 
and persistent badgering, ad­faculty member, are to be re­"the victim's choices regarding signed to make students more 
Discriminatory Harassment 
dressed directly at another, or ported to the Office of Resi­additional reporting and follow­aware of safety precautions.Policy small group of others, that is dence Life. up. "Several avenues of support The section also "ties in alcohol 
A second area of change to du intended to intimidate its vic­•If the incident involves a are detailed in du Lac, including and crime," emphasizing the Lac was in the adoption of a tims(s) from any University ac­faculty member, it should be the following: danger that can accompany ex­discriminatory harassment pol­tivity, or any verbal attack, in­reported to the chair of the •Pastoral support at Campus cessive alcohol use, he said. 
icy that had been formally ap­tended to provoke the victim to academic department, or "in Ministry and through hall staffs; The new section includes in­proved in April by the Academic immediate physical retaliation." cases involving the chair, to the •Medical services at local formation on on and off-campusCouncil. The policy is intended The policy further defines dean of the college." hospitals and University Health security, giving the telephoneto complement existing rules discriminatory harassment as •Incidents of alleged discrim­Services; listings of Safe Walk and and regulations. 
any of the above that "is ac­inatory harassment by a staff •Counseling services at Uni­campus Security as well as tipsThe policy states that the companied by intentionally de­member are to be reported to versity Counseling Center; for students to use in tornado or University "believes in the in-meaning expressions concern-the Director of Human Re-•Disciplinary options through fire emergencies. 





Make your donn room or apartment 
LOOK LIKE HOME 

LARGE SELECTION OF GENTLY USED FURNITURE 
& 


NEW CARPET REMNANTS 
at our 

New Expanded USED FURNITURE DEPT. 

1805 WESTERN AVE. 
CONVENIENT SHOPPING HOURS: 
MON-FRI  9am -7pm  
SAT  9am-6pm  
SUN  noon-5pm  
Checks & Cash too!!!  


----~-~

-----~-------------------------~---~ 
Tuesday,August27, 1991 The Observer page 7 

Republic 
continued from page 1 
Lukyanov, described by Yeltsin as the "ideologue" of the con­spiracy. 
Radical legislators will fight Gorbachev's agenda, said Alexei Yablokov, a reformist lawmaker. 
Leningrad's reformist mayor, Anatoly Sobchak, planned to ask the legislature to debate a resolution to recognize the in­dependence of six republics ­Including the Battles -that are refusing to sign Gorbachev's proposed Union Treaty. 
Yeltsln, who led resistance to the hard-line Communist coup, capitalized on the disintegration of the central government and Communist Party over the weekend to Issue decrees asserting his government's con­trol over state-owned enter­prises In the Russian Federa­tion. 
Yeltsln will demand a revision of the draft Union Treaty to "eliminate all the parts which were previously dedicated to the so-called central power," Deputy Russian Foreign Minis­ter Andrei Fyodorov told CNN. 
In other developments: 
•Angry demonstrators in the Latvian capital of Riga toppled a statue to the founder of the Soviet Communist Party, Vladimir Lenin. Protesters in the Chichen-lngush capital of 

Independence movements across the Soviet Union: 
• Have declared independence 
RUSSIA O Moscow BYELORUSSIA 
~ Will vole Tuesday on independence 
D Republics that remain in the Soviet Union, but claim sovereignty (A sovereign Republic's laws take precedence over those of the central government) 
AP 

Grozny in the southern Soviet The Moscow city council on authorization. Union on Saturday took down a Tuesday was to debate taking •In several republics, author­Lenin monument, blockaded down a massive Lenin statue. ities stepped up actions against police and KGB buildings and Mayor Gavriil Popov called on Communist Party branches and took control of radio and tele­citizens to refrain from pulling individuals suspected of com­vision stations. down monuments without city plicity in the coup plot. 
Ukrainian authorities sealed Communist Party headquarters in Kiev pending an investigation of party complicity, said Maxim Myakent~ of the independent Ukrainian Information Service. 
In Moldavia, Interfax reported that authorities moved against those suspected of cooperating with the conspiracy, arresting lawmaker Gimi Pologov and issuing warrants for at least four other leaders of the Gagauz region, which has sought to secede from the re­public. 
•In Moscow, the new Soviet defense minister declared his support for Gorbachev's order banning party cells in the mili­tary, KGB and other security organs. 
Yevgeny Shaposhnikov also said in a television Interview that he will seek to replace 80 percent of the top officer corps with younger, "more loyal" of­ficers. 
He ascended to the post after refusing as commander of the Air Force to obey instructions from the coup plotters. 
Shaposhnikov, speaking to the Izvestia newspaper, denied reports that any of the plotters, including some who may still be at large, had the ability to launch a nuclear strike. 
Cheney said Sunday that Soviet nuclear weapons now appear to be under control of the central government. 


+

.Anlerican 
Red Cross

WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< American Heart 
'y{)LJR LIFE Association 





page a 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDN:SDAV,AUGUST21 
9:11 a.m. A visitor to the University reported the loss of his wallet while at. tending the Mobile Home Show. 
5:02 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a minor automobile accident on Old Juniper Road. No Injuries were reported. 
7:56 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a report of a suspicious person in the Lafortune Student Center. The suspect was locatfi!.d, qoostioned, and released. 
1:05 p.m. A University employee reported chest pains while wotking and was transported by Notre Dame Sea.t­rity/Poilce to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
nt.RSDAV, Al.OJST22 
1:12 a.m. A Mishawaka resident was cited by Notre Dame Security/Police for traveling 51 MPH In a 30 MPH zone on Juniper Road. The operator was also issued a warning lor failure to wear a seat belt. 
1:29 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Security/Police 
for traveling 43 MPH in a 25 MPH zone on Junipe!' Road. 
3 a.m. A Wisconsin resident was cited by Notre Dame Security/Police for traveling 47 MPH in a 30 MPH zone on Ivy road. 4;0i p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a minor automobile accident on Old Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
4:27 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Polk;& responded to a two vehicle accident on Edison Road. Three parties sustalned injuries and were assisted to St. Joseph Medical center. 
10:05 p.m. A SoUth Bend resldimt was cited by Notre Dame Security/Pollee for disregarding a stop sign. 
11:19 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by Notre . Dame Security/Police for traveling 48 MPH In a 30 MPH on Edison Road. 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 23 
12:45 a.m. Notre Dame Secu· rity/Police responded to a report of a larceny attempt at the Howard Hat! bike racks. No property was stolen, and several suspects were apprehended with the aid of several outside pollee agencies. The case remains under investigation. 
7:09 a.m. A University employee reponed vandalism to her automobile while it was parked in the 816 lot. 
11 :32 a.m. A stu.dent reported the loss of his wallet on the path around St. Joseph Lake. 
12:18 p.m. A University employee reported the loss of his parking decal. 
1:54 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police assisted in the transport of an injured University employee from the South Dining Hall to Student Health Center. 
4:30 p.m. A student reported the toss of his unattended wallet from the Hesburgh Library. 
4:47 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Poliee responded to an automobile accident on Douglas Road. One injured party declined medical assistance. 10 p.m. A Stanford resident reported the loss of his wallet In his dorm. · 
SATlFI>AV,AUGUST24 
12:31 a.m. A Grace Hall resident was assisted by Notre Dame Secu­rityfPolice and Notre Dame Fire Department to Student Health Center for treatment of food poisoning. · 
11:18 a.m. A student reported the loss of her unattended wallet from the Hesburgh Library. cJ 
3:48 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee assisted in the transport ot an ill University visitor from the JACC to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
4:54 p.m. A student reported th& Josll· ·· of his wallet on campus. 
5:20 p.m. A visitor to the University reported vandalism to his vehicle whilfil It was parked in the D-2 lot. 
SUNDAY, AUGUST 25. 
~sv 
12:20 a;m. A Notre Dame Security Police offJcer stopped a vehicle which was weaving on U.S. 31. The driver was touild to have an outstan<!ing warrant for her arrest The officer !hen transported the suspect to St. Joseph County Jail. 
3:20 a.m. Notre Dame SecuritytPoliee responded to the report of awater~ •.... In the Administration Building. The cause of the leak was determined and steps were taken to correct the prob· lem. 
The Observer Tuesday,August27, 1991 
black eye and abrasions to his he said. fearing that the attackers' 
elbows, hands and knees. In The attack brings to light the knowledge of where they live 
addition, his forehead was cut growing crime problem in could provoke another incident. continued from page 1 by the bottle and a charley South Bend, according t.o Even if they find a house in a front of Kozachok's house, and horse from being struck on his Kozachok. better neighborhood, Kozachok 

Mugging 
his roommates had fled the thigh, he said. "You don't think yol.J're in is unconvinced that off-campus scene. The youths proceede~ to While stealing his wallet, the danger when you're right in living can be completely safe. 
punch Kozachok, breaking a assailants ripped the entire front of your house," he said, "It's gotten worse," he said of bottle over his head and "body back portion of Kozachok's "but you are." the crime in typically student slamming" him onto the shorts off. The attackers neighborhoods. "Nobody can ground. escaped with $25-30, a blank Kozachok and his roommates hold their own. It's just not 
He received a broken nose, check, and several credit cards, are looking for a new house, worth it." 

W
e're working smarter, Like the TI-68, an advanced scien­Plus a whole lot more. too. So you don't have tific that solves up to five simulta­No matter what your major, no to work harder. neous equations, performs complex matter what the course, there's a 
For us, it means an ongoing rela­numbers and offers formula TI scientific or business calculator tionship with educators and profes­programming. that's right for you. Do the smart sors, striving to understand what's thing: make one of them a part 
of your professional personality now, and for the years to come. You'll be on your way to work­ing smarter. Instead of harder. 
Try the entire line ofTI scien­tific and business calculators at your local TI retailer. 
&~..;. 

~f TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 

The TI-36X SOLAR, a general purpose workhorse powered by ANYLITE™ solar cells so you 
never need batteries. The BAll PLUS:M For business 
students, this is the one to get. It handles time-value-of-money and offers cash flow analysis for internal 
needed to help them make math rate ofreturn (IRR) and net present
concepts come alive. value (NPV). 
It means continually working with students like you, discovering firsthand what you expect from the calculator you select. 
The result? Calculators that are highly recommended by your teachers and peers. Calculators that are perfectly matched to your 
'~oo-MAliAN REBATE-$500 

major and your coursework. wh~n you buy the Tl-68 or BAll PLUSTII The TI-81 is a perfect example. 
HERE'S HOW: l. Save your original cash register receipt. 

'It offers the most comprehensive, 
2. Clip the proof-of-purchase UPC bar

easy-tp-use graphil)g features 
code from package. available with extensive pro­3. Complete this mail-in rebate certificate. 
4. Send all three items to the address below. 

gramming capabilities. MAIL ID: BACK-ID-SCHOOL REBATE OFFER
And there are others. 
Texas Instruments Incorporated 
P.O. Box 53 •Lubbock, Texas 79408 
NAME (PLEASE PR!Nn 
ADDRESS 
CITI' STATE ZIP 
TERMSANDCONDmON&llmof!e. voilidf<><pwct>-be<w<m8/l/91 and IOIJI/91. All claims must be rtceived by Il/30/91. Allow 8-IOweeks for proceui.ng. Send thi.cornplcted fonn along with the orliinal caah rqiKtt n:ceipr and the proofofpun:hue b.r code to the 
~~~~~~:=w,~~U:O~&C~'Cf~~u::t~L~ 

and only in the U.S.A. Offer void where r,rohibited, taxed, liccmed:, or~. Umirone rebate peT housc.hold or address. Tcxu nsuumenu ~r~ right to diiCOntmue this~ ,.Trademark ofTexas Instruments, Inc program at any tlmt and without notice. 
~--------------~---------------­
The Observer page 9
Tuesday,August27, 1991 
Smith's attorneys want Lupo to remain on rape case Murder plot trial begins 



for cheerleader's mother
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -William Kennedy Smith's attorneys said Monday his judge should remain on the rape case, rejecting as baseless prosecutors' demands that she disqualify herself. 
Claiming the state is "judge­shopping," defense attorneys criticized the Aug. 20 motion by lead prosecutor Moira Lasch that Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Mary Lupo should leave the case. 
Prosecutors accused Lupo of a lack of candor about her fam­ily's friendships with attorneys on. the case and alleged she showed bias toward the prose­cution with her rulings and fa­cial expressions. Lasch accused Lupo of bias for postponing the trial until Jan. 13. 
The state motion was sup­ported by an affidavit by the 30­year-old woman who says Smith, 30-year-old nephew of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., raped her March 30 at his family's Palm Beach estate. 
Lupo hasn''t responded. 
Prosecutors had warned that Smith's attorneys could use the conflicts for a later appeal. Smith's attorneys said Monday they had In effect waived an appeal by failing to act on the Information months ago. 
Lupo's husband and prosecu­tor Ellen Roberts' husband are former law partners, which the defense was informed of in May. 
The defense papers said the state has tried to goad the court with "inflammatory motions" and "an abusive tone." The papers said that ruling against one side in a case doesn't prove a judge is biased. 
Prosecutors said Lupo's ex­pressions had also been cited by defense attorneys in a 1989 personal-injury case that re­sulted in her being removed by a state appellate court. 
Smith's attorneys replied that the appellate court's decision was based on Lupo's adversar­ial role in a hearing, not her expressions, and that the Florida Supreme Court ruled such expressions aren't grounds for removal. 
HOUSTON (AP) -A woman accused of trying to hire a hit­man to murder the mother of her daughter's cheerleading ri­val spoke of having the woman killed or sold into slavery, a prosecutor said Monday. The defense called it a set-up. 
As the trial began, both sides promised to show how tangled family relationships and a bit­ter divorce resulted In the solic­itation of capital murder and kidnapping charges against Wanda Holloway. 
Defense lawyers called Hol­loway the victim of brothers 

---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Come To Pier1For 



A lesson In
Home Economics. 
~---------------~ 
15°/o Off 
Your entire purchase, 
including sale items. 
Bnizg til tlu~~ coupon and receive 15% off your entire purchase, including sa7c items. Qffcr good at all Pier 1 stores. This coupon must be redeemed at time qf 
purchase and is nor \ 
valid in combination \l\tl\\ 
wuh linv other coupon .t t\ill,,l\.\\\s 
or discount. Q/Jcr do_cs • 
not apply_ to pnor l'\~ ~\it 
purchases. Cr0od throt{gh 1\\ 
Sept. 30, !991. Af\JcelbDiscover.® 
Coupon 1333 
~---------------~ 
Before you start hitting the books, hit Pier 1. We have everything you need to turn a dull dorm room or apartment into a class act. Like fun futons, colorful rugs, unique lamps, tables and chairs. As well as a great 
variety of other affordable decorator furnishings. And right now, we'll take an additional 15% off your entire purchase, including sale items. Just bring in the coupon at the left. Then get ready for a home economics lesson 

you can really relate to. Only at Pier 1. APlace 'Ib Discover.® 
scheming to take her children away from her. 
But prosecutors said Hol­loway contacted Terry Lynn Harper, her ex-husband's brother, after her 13-year-old daughter, Sfianna, lost a spot on the cheerleadlng squad again to Amber Heath. 
Harper testified Monday that Holloway told him she hated Heath and her mother and wanted to do away with them. 
"She asked me what I would do. I said you could get one of these Colombian drug lords and have her taken to Colombia and have her sold into white slav­ery," Harper said. 
Amber's mother, Verna 
Heath, testified that she was 
startled to hear about the plot, 
but said Holloway's jealously 
didn't surprise her. 
"When they told me her 
name, I said, 'Does this have 
anything to do with cheerlead­
log?' because it all kind of fell 
into place," Heath said. 
At first, prosecutors said, 
Holloway wanted Amber and 
her mother killed or kidnapped, 
but then settled on only the 
mother because she could not 
afford to pay for both murders. 
Holloway, a homemaker from 
suburban Channelview, was ar­
rested Jan. 30 and has been 
free on bond. If convicted, she 
could be sentenced to life in 
prison. 
Authorities say Holloway 
hoped Amber would be so 
upset about her mother's death 
she would drop out of the next 
cheerleading competition, 
thereby improving Shanna's 
chances of winning. 
Prosecutors said Harper was 
on probation for drunken driv­
ing when he was contacted by 
Holloway, and in turn contacted 
police because he didn't want 
to tangle with the law again. 
While Harper wore a hidden tape recorder, he and Holloway met to discuss the plan, prose­cutor Mike Anderson told the jury in his opening argument. 
"On the tape she will talk about death and suggest that Verna be kidnapped and sold into slavery," Anderson said. "You will hear her say, 'I don't care what you do with her, I just don't want to see her In Channelview again." 
Authorities also allege that Holloway offered an under­cover officer -posing as a hitman and referred by Harper -a pair of diamond earrings worth $2,200 as collateral for the killing, which would have cost $2,500. 
'She was very concerned with 
the cost," Anderson said. 
But defense lawyer Troy McKinney said her thrift was evidence she wasn't serious about the crime. He said she and her husband are worth $2 million and routinely keep up to $7,000 in cash in their house. 
"Monev would not have stood in her way," he said. 
McKinney said Harper, hav­ing learned of Holloway's dis­appointment about Shanna's cheerleading defeat, contacted her and said: "'I can take care of that for you.' But Wanda said, 'That's crazy."' 
Several times in the taped conversation, Wanda demurred on the murder plot, at one point saying, "Blow it off! I don't want to do It," McKinney said. 
"Why would Terry Harper do this? Because he was the black 


sheep In the family. 


The Observer 
...Until the jloodunters ofa hurricane rip through 

For the facts call your local Red Cross, or write: 
town, lea:ving hwui:reds homeless. !fyou can't spare 

AIDS 
some time to hel:p...you ought to be ashamed. 
American

American Red Cross 
Red Cross 
.American+
Red Cross

~run~n,DC20006 



The scientific way to go back to school 

9.00 
Caslo 8-cllgH sclentHic calculator 
features 78 functions, constant memory, automatic shutoff, convenient user memory and fractional capability. FX250 
13.00 
Caslo sclentHic solar-powered calculator features 199 functions, 10-digit display, one independent memory/ 6 constant memories. FX991 
64.00 
Caslo 7000G graphic sclentffic calculator with 195 functions, 422 program steps, graphic functions and 16-character, 8-tine display. FX7000G 


THE QUALITY YOU NEED, THE PRICE YOU WANT. 



-~-~-~-----­


The Carpet Remnant 
2220 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 

TOTAL LIQUIDATION 

Student editor position at the Office of University Computing. Strong editing and Macintosh skills necessary. £all Mike at 239-8679 lor the dirt 
WillE FIGHTII\IG FOR 'vOURUFE 
American Heart Association 

Death is forever. Heart disease doesn't have to be. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM11 

American Heart ft Association V' 

Tuesday, August 27, 1991 The Observer 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Is it 'Hall' or 'Hill'? 
An unknown individual from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community with an eye for detail made necessary changes on an outdated signwhich directs visitors to the spot where Holy Cross Hall once stood. 
page 11 


Protestors demonstrated; clinic director injured 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP)-An es­timated 25,000 abortion foes rallied at a stadium here, cap­ping six weeks of protests. Hours earlier, demonstrators roughed up an abortion clinic director In one of the most violent protests yet, police said. 
TV evangelist Pat Robertson was among those at the rally who called on abortion foes to continue their campaign In Wi­chita. 
"What we are trying to do Is protect children from the cruel forceps of money-grubbing vul­tures who masquerade as men of medicine," he said. 
He also said U.S. District Judge Patrick Kelly -who has jailed abortion foes for violating his order against blocking clinics -should be impeached. 
"These men and women are not criminals and lawbreakers and disobedient to lawful authority," Robertson said at Wichita State University. University officials estimated the crowd at 25,000. 
After the rally, Operation Res­cue spokesman Gary McCullough said the national group would turn the Wichita anti-abortion crusade over to local leaders. 
Police and federal marshals have made more than 2,600 ar­rests, mainly for trespassing, since Operation Rescue began demonstrations In mid-July. 
Wichita has been targeted because one of its clinics performs late-term abortions. 
Earlier Sunday, Wichita Family Planning Inc. opened unexpect­edly, and about 100 protesters gathered. 
Clinic director Debbie Riggs was pushed and shoved by two protesters at the clinic's back entrance when she arrived at 
7:30 a.m. to open the center, police said. 
"She was physically roughed up, but she wasn't injured," said Deputy Police Chief Steve Trainer. "She was a little shaken." 
Two officers who responded were surrounded, and one officer sprayed Mace on protesters, Trainer said. "Nobody got hurt," he said. 
Sixty-one people were arrested Sunday, 59 on trespassing charges and two on assault charges, said Deputy U.S. Mar­shal Denls Amico. 
Authorities said patients were able to enter the clinic, one of two covered by Kelly's order barring harassment of doctors, employees or patients. 
During the siege, some protesters have been arrested as many as eight times. Wichita officials estimated more than 1,400 individuals, many from out of town, have been arrested. 
Kelly has sentenced a handful of Operation Rescue leaders to jail terms for violating his order. Most protesters are released within hours of arrest. 
The ProChoice .Action League held a rally of its own on the banks of the Arkansas River on Saturday. About 6,000 people attended. 

-~----~~ ~~----­
-------~-~ 
page 12 The Observer 
Tuesday, August~ ' 

The most reusable piece ofplastic on campus. 

The AT&T Calling Card will never go to waste. You can use it to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. 
Once you have one, you'll never need to apply for another. And its the least expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial 
direct. Whats more, if you get your Calling Card now, you'll get a free hours worth of AT&T long distance calling.* D Of course, when you 
use your Calling Card you'll always be connected to the reliable service you've come to expect from AT&T. 0 And when you get your 
Calling Card, you'll become a member of AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products and services designed to save students 
time and money. 0 So, as you see, theres only one way to describe the AT&TCalling Card in todays college environment. Indispensable. 
Get an AT&T Calling Cardtoday. Calli 800 654-0471 Ext. 4811. 
'Good for one hour of direct~dialed, coast-to-coast, night and weekend calling, based on prices effective 2/16/91. Offer limited to one $8.25AT&T Long Distance Certificate per
student. Offer valid through June 30, 1992. 
©1991 AT&T 

I 
1' ·I 
Ji 
I 
!: 
I 
i/: 


, 
Tuesday,August27, 1991 

Florida murder suspect linked to Lousiana killings 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP)-The main suspect in the slaying of five Gainesville college students may be linked to a 1989 triple murder In Louisiana, police said In an affidavit unsealed Monday. 
The affidavit in support of a search warrant was released as jury selection began In a rob­bery trial for Danny Harold Rolllng. The trial began a year to the day after the first two victims were found In Gainesville. 
tast week, police In Shreve­port, La., Rolling's hometown, obtained blood, saliva, and hair samples from Rolling In an In­vestigation of the Nov. 4, 1989, triple slaying. 
The affidavit from Shreveport Detective Don Ashley said Rolling's saliva will be com­pared to saliva swabbed from a bite mark on the breast of vic­tim Julie Grissom, 24. 
Grissom, her 55-year-old father, Tom, and 8-year-old nephew Scan were stabbed to death. Authorities believe Grissom was the target. 
The saliva found on Gris­som's breast was from a person with type B blood who secretes identifying blood chemicals into other body fluids, the affidavit said. It's the same makeup Holling Is listed as having, the document said. Twenty percent to 25 percent of all males don't secrete blood chemical Into their body fluids. 
The affidavit also said Holling, 37, lived In Shreveport during late 1989,jogged at the same track as l.rlssom and on the 
day of the slaylngs was fired from his job at a restaurant, a mile from her home. 
Hair and fiber evidence from Rolling's car was turned over to the FBI for comparison to samples found at the murder scene. 
"The FBI has advised the Shreveport Police Department that hair recovered from the Grissom house and Rolling's vehicle have been mlcroscopi­cally compared and found to have similar characteristics," the affidavit said. 
Shreveport investigators said fresh blood, saliva and hair samples were needed to con­firm their suspicions and to create a DNA profile. 
Mary Lou Cuellar, Rolling's lawyer In the Tampa robbery trial, lost her fight last week to keep the affidavit sealed, fear­ing disclosure and the publicity of the Gainesville anniversary would ·make it impossible to pick an unbiased jury. 
Rolling is charged with hold­ing up a grocery and starting a shootout with deputies a few days after the last bodies were found in Gainesville. 
Rolling has been in jail since September after pleading guilty to holding up an Ocala super­market. 
No one has been charged in the Gainesville murders, but authorities have named Rolling as the prime suspect and Ed­ward Humphrey as a second suspect. 
The Tampa charges, which carry a possible life sentence, aren't related to the student murders 80 miles away, but au­thorities say they are significant because the car Rolling was driving In Tampa was stolen from a Gainesville student housing complex two days after the last bodies were found. 
Families of the live Gainesville dead gathered Monday in that college town for the laying of a wreath at a memorial created last year at a graffiti-covered
wall. Five bouquets of white roses sat in vases at the base of the wall. 
The parents of the victims at­tended the ceremony, but wouldn't talk to the media. 
The murders focused national attention on Gainesville, a town of 85,000, during the first week of classes at the University of Florida last year and sparked intense fear among students and residents. 
• 
--=-.M~ 
f'\ORfftU c'f'nTAtR cfOR Tttf .cfl RT s 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 14,8 P.M. 
An Evening of Songs and Stories 
with a Folk Music Great 


TOM PAXTON 
FRIDAY, OCT. 4, 8 P.M. 
An International Favor~e 
Comic/Mime 
BOB BERKY 
A moreau galleries, sylvia taccani, photographs, michael shaughnessy, 
scu~tural installation, sept 6-oct. 4, admission free A saint mary's theatre, hansel & grelel: an old tale newly told, nov. 14-17 A jonathan !rid's shakespearean odyssey, nov. 23 A the south bend chamber singers gala christmas concert, dec. 20 
Tickets lor all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box oHice, located in 
Olaughlin Auditorium, Mon.·Fri. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders: 
2191284-4626. 
• 

Doing the Hula The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen, orientation commissioners and parents enjoyed the Hawaiian festivities that took place at Saturday Night's Hawaiian Luau during orientation weekend. 
'Cheers' wins big at Emmy award night; Neuwirth and Alley receive top honors 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -The barroom comedy "Cheers" hoisted a leading four Emmy Awards, including the prize for best comedy series and trophies for stars Kirstie Alley and Bebe Neuwirth. 
NBC's "L.A. Law," won its fourth Emmy for best dramatic series at Sunday's awards cer­
emony. 
Other major winners in­cluded: James Earl Jones of ABC's "Gabriel's Fire," best ac­tor in a dramatic series; Patri­cia Wettig of ABC's "thirtysomething," best actress in a dramatic series; and Burt Reynolds of CBS's "Evening Shade," best actor in a comedy series. 
"Cheers" now has a total of 26 Emmys, pulling even with "Hill Street Blues" for the sec­ond most Emmys ever for a series. "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" has the most, 29. "The Carol Burnett Show" is fourth with 22. 
"I said we were good, but now we're venerable I guess," said "Cheers" director, co-creator and co-executive producer James Burrows, who also won the comedy directing trophy. 
Other multiple winners in­cluded another awards pro­gram -the 63rd annual Academy Awards -which picked up three statuettes. 
Winners and presenters at the 43rd annual Emmy Awards wore red ribbons on the Fox broadcast in a show of support for AIDS research and people with AIDS. 
Comedian Gilbert Gottfried's wisecracks about Pee-wee Herman actor Paul Reubens' indecent-exposure arrest went out live on the East Coast, but one minute and 40 seconds were censored when the tape was shown in later time zones. 
"Masturbation's a crime, I should be on death row!" Got­tfried said. "To. think that by age 14, I was already AI Capone!" 
Kirstie Alley's win as best ac­tress in a comedy series comes four years after she replaced Shelley Long in "Cheers." 
"I only thank God I didn't have to wait as long as Ted," said Alley, who plays insecure Rebecca Howe, manager of the Boston bar. Co-star Ted Danson was nominated eight times before winning last year for best actor in a comedy. 

Bebe Neuwirth captured her second consecutive Emmy for supporting actress in a comedy for her portrayal of the cold-as­ice psychotherapist Dr. Lilith Sternin-Crane. 


Student Internships Available 
Earn academic credit while gaining valuable "real" world experience. 
for Law and Criminal Justice placements call Prof. Bryan Byers, 239-6585. 
For urban planning, local government, social welfare, education and medical placements call Prof. Richard Lamanna, 239-6585 or 234-2880. 
Open to Juniors and Seniors only. 
Reynolds got the comedy ac­tor award this year for his role as a high school football coach. 
Comic Jonathan Winters won 
his first Emmy -best support­
ing comedy actor for "Davis 
Rules." 
James Earl Jones, who 
opened the show with a 
pompous speech that ended 
with a scripted pie In his face, 
got two Emmys. 
Along with recognition for his 
role In "Gabriel's Fire," about 
an ex-con who becomes a pri­
vate investigator, he was named 
best supporting actor in a mini­
series for "Heatwave," a TNT 
mini-series about the 1965 
Watts race riots. 
Wettig was honored for her 
portrayal of cancer victim 
Nancy Weston. It was her sec­
ond straight Emmy for best 
dramatic actress and her third 
for "thirtysomething," which 
has been canceled. She won as 
best supporting actress 1988. 
"It's a little sad," Wettlg said, fighting back tears. "This is sort of my last time to say goodbye to this character." 
Her co-star Timothy Buslield was named best supporting dramatic actor for his portrayal of the immature yuppie Elliot Weston. 
"Cool!" said a bemused Bus­
field. 
Saturday night, during a non­televised prelude to the Emmys ceremony, Colleen Dewhurst was honored posthumously as best guest actress in a comedy series. Dewhurst, who died of cancer Thursday, was honored for her appearances on CBS's "Murphy Brown" as Murphy Brown's mother. 
PBS picked up an Emmy for best informational series, "The Civil War," and best informa­tional special, "American Mas­ters, Edward R. Murrow: This Reporter." 
ABC led with 26 awards: CBS was second with 15, followed by NBC with 13; PBS, 12; HBO, 5; syndicated, 2; Disney, 1; Fox, 1; and TNT, 1. 
"Separate But Equal," a chronicle of the U.S. Supreme Court's 1955 school desegrega­tion ruling, won in the best drama, comedy special or mini­series category. 






Viewpoint
page 14 Tuesday, August 27, 1991 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••....••..•.•••..••••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor•••••.••.•••••.••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••.••..••..David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor.••••.•••.••..•.•...John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •.•••••••••••........•...Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Prisoner makes plea for pen-pals 
Dear Editor: friends years ago. hands, I'd very much like to 
My name is Larry Evans. I am Everything I once knew in the correspond and share experi­a prisoner at the Arizona State "Free-World" is gone. And to ences with anyone willing to Prison. be honest, I am never getting write and share their time. 
I am writing in hopes of at­out of jail. taining correspondence with I am desperate to write to Larry Evans anyone willing to write to me. someone-anyone. I really en­P.O. Box B-36165 
I have been in prison for the joy writing and will answer all Arizona State Prison past sixteen years now. I've lost letters. Florence, Arizona 85232 contact with all family and With all this time on my 
Reevaluating last year's unrest 
The COTH department is to be 
congratulated for its choice of 
Arthur Miller's Crucible for its 
first show if this year's season. 
His classic play of Salem witch­
hunting is not only a fine 
drama, but a message which is 
timely for our campus. 
Last year we saw a local manifestation of a national movement on university cam­puses which demands a rethinking of traditional concepts of higher education. This many-headed dragon is known by various buzzwords-"multiculturalism," "cultural diversity," "political correctness." Students and faculty pressing this issue have done so with a righteousness approaching religious zeal. 
On a national level, this phe­nomenon has seen the culmina­tion of a 30-year process of re­visionism in higher education, moving into its last phases, where even faculty join in at­tacking the very canon-works which are considered essential reading for students seeking to be educated members of West­ern culture. 
Some arguments are worth thinking about; ethnic-Ameri­can authors have been ne­glected be academia and Amer­ican society does not need to rethink its cultural self-concep­tion. 
But it is not the issues them­selves which are frightening, but the zeal and moral indigna­tion with which their interlocu­tors press. 
On many campuses, the purging of "wrong" ideas, pro­fessors and students holds eerie echoes of Salem and its McCarthyist inheritors. 
Most disturbing is the Impli­cation given that those individ­uals who oppose these mea­sures, for whatever reason, are lumped together as racist, sexist reactionaries who would like nothing better that to turn back the clock on civil rights. These "incorrect" individuals must be 
Rich Delevan 
Notes from Underground 
brought to see the light by the missionaries of multicul­turalism. In another not so distant age they would claim to be doing God's work. 
SUFR began in much this fashion at Notre Dame. Begin­ning on the Administration Building steps on a chilly, Jan­uary afternoon, many minority students combined to demand charges toward "cultural diver­sity or else." 
From curriculum reform and faculty hiring to a "multicultural center" ala the University of Michigan, these demands were pressed in demonstrations and rather silly chalk drawings with increasing fervor. 
Questions and anxiety under­standably developed among the student-body. After all, they were indicted along with the Administration as being racists who were leaving these stu­dents out of the Notre Dame family. 
Inflaming the situation was the fact that SUFR had struck a nerve when it broke the rules of engagement for campus politics. For dialogue to occur in an open forum, there must be certain understandings which allow discussion of an issue to progress and conclude in a constructive way. 
This unwritten gentlemen's agreement allows reason to govern an orderly debate. Each side agrees that it has, after all, only an opinion. But when a political policy is equated by a 
·group with moral right, the agreement is broken and the dialogue ends. 
People stop listening to words and hear only noise. This hap­pened when SUFR reportedly help secret meetings barring whites from entrance and then proceeded to take over the Reg­istrar's office. For a few hours, a siege mentality set in and the 
campus dangled over the abyss 
of either anarchy of repression. 
The issues were obscured. 
Fortunately for everyone, 
cooler heads prevailed. 
Amnesty was granted by Father 
Malloy and SUFR began a 
course of moderation. It has 
broadened its membership and 
leadership along both racial and 
ideological lines. 
SUFR has applied for recog­
nition as an official student or­
ganization. Two open forums 
were held, in Lyons and here in 
Planner, where members of 
SUFR met with students to ex­
plain their issues. 
Somehow, SUFR managed to tack away from the national "movement" and form its own identity, one incorporating the principles of reason and under­standing and tolerance which make Notre Dame a place worth returning to each August. 
Gentlemen's agreements are again functioning between SUFR and the rest of the cam­pus. We may in fact owe SUFR a debt of gratitude for raising the level ofdebate on the cam­pus above the inane. More fo­rums will be held. 
We have avoided the hysteria and the shee-r madness that Arthur Clark's Abigail and Par­rish fall victim to. A process of difficult and gut-wrenching dia­logue has begun. A soul­searching perhaps unprece­dented on this campus has oc­curred and continues. 
A path of self-destructive malevolence and self-righ­teousness has been avoided. That the future will hold no re­turn to this path, however, is far from certain. Administration intransigence or renewed student frustration may yet provoke another round of madness. So when you watch the Cr.ucible this fall, remember it well. 
Rich Delevan is a Junior Gov­ernment and Philosophy major currently serving as Co_JJresident ofFlanner Hall. 
O'Hara greets students both new and returning 
Dear Students: 
I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs-the Offices of Residence Life, Security, Student Residences, Alcohol and Drug Education, Student 
Activities International Student Affairs, Minority Student Af­fairs, Counseling Center, Career and Placement, Health Services, Campus Ministry and Hall Staffs. 
Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facjlitate your intellec­tual, spiritual and personal growth in your lives outside the classroom. 
We welcome back the sopho­mores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and professional students. 
We extend a special welcome to our new students-the freshmen, transfer and new graduate and professional stu­dents. You join a proud com­munity with a rich tradition that dates back one hundred and fifty years to the vision of our founder, Father Edward Sorin, 
C.S.C. 
We hope that all of you-both those who are new and those who are returning-will be able to achieve the academic, spiri­tual and personal goals you set for yourselves this year. 
As we begin celebration of our sesquicentennial, we open the year with a special sense of excitement. I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possi­ble in the months ahead. 
Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's good blessings. 
Professor Patricia O'Hara Vice Pres. for Student Affairs August 23, 1991 

Honoring Ireland's Prime Minister results in negative Irish stereotype 
Dear Editor: 
In a May of the Irish Echo newspaper, much of its front page was devoted to Notre Dame and the honors bestowed on Charles Haughey, Prime Minister of Ireland. 

Throughout the years, Notre Dame bas cemented into Amer­ican folklore negative stereo­types of the Irish people. Be­cause of Notre Dame, America knows that the Irish are fighters {the Fighting Irish), super­stitious {the leprechauns) and of course, drunkards. 
Mr. Haughey represents a government that has aban-

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
cloned Irish people in trouble {Birmingham Six); has extra­dited Irish citizens to England {Dessie Ellis); has suspended civil rights for Irish citizens (Article 31); and now threatens to change the Irish Constitution's claim of sovereignty. 
The Catholic Hierarchy of Ire­land continue a political in­trigue that has been evident for two centuries-sell out needy Irish people to gain the favor of the powerful. 
P. D. Macandrlu 
Bogota, New Jersey May 31,1991 
'I can't help it if you might think that it's odd, if I say I'm loving you not for what you are, but what you're not.' 
Bob Dylan 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 






Accent 
Tuesday,August27, 1991 Page 15 
_.._ -_..... 

-.. __ . . ._c.: ' 
. ~­
...



Happy Birthday, 


As the University turns 150, ayear-long bash is being planned 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
If you can't pronounce 
"sesquicentennial," nonetheless spell it, 
don't worry-you'll have plenty of time 
to learn. 
This year marks the 150th year that 
the University has been in existence 
and students, faculty and 
administrators are planning a year­
long celebration. 
The sesquicentennial celebration 
kicks off on the weekend of Sept. 13 
and 14 and continues until Nov. 26, 
1992-the actual 150th anniversary of 
the University's founding, according to 
Dennis Moore, director of public 
relations and information. 
By then, everyone should be able to 
pronounce, if not spell, 
"sesquicentennial." 
The opening weekend will be jam­
packed with events, starting with a 
symposium, convocation and the 
dedication of the Hesburgh Center for ·International Studies. 
While there Is traditionally an 
opening mass at the beginning of each 
school year, this year's mass will serve 
as a formal opening of the 
sesquicentennial celebration, Moore 
said. 
That mass will be held in the Joyce 
ACC at 4 p.m. and a picnic dinner will 
be held on Cartier Field following the 
mass, Moore said. 
The Committee on the 
Sesquicentennial of the University Is 
being chaired by Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, and Hoger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost. Schmitz and Kolman are also chairpersons of the University Steering Committee. 
Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president's office, is chairman of the University and community-wide celebrations. Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research, is chairman of the committee in charge of concluding events. 
These committees include faculty, administrators and students. 
Perhaps the biggest event for most students is the revival of a Homecoming weekend, said Katie Pamenter, student committee chairwoman. 
Homecoming weekend actually commences on Thursday, Oct. 31, Pamenter said. Homecoming dances will be held for both minors and those over 21, she said. 
The under-21 group will have a costume party/dance in Stepan Center and the over-21 crowd will have the Halloween Party at the Alumni-Senior Club, Pamenter said. This over-21 party is sponsored by the Senior 
Formal committee, she added. will be chosen from this group, she On Nov. 1, a parade, pep rally and said. casino night will be held, -------. A casino night, sponsored 
by S.U.B., will be held forPamenter said. 
{?, 
parents who are in town for from the intersection of 
The parade will step off 

parents' weekend, Pamenter Notre Dame and Corby 
added. Avenues at 5:30 p.m. It will 
On Saturday, Nov. 2, the proceed down Notre Dame · 
Irish will play Navy in the 4 Ave., past the stadium and 
p.m. Homecoming game. The 
IU2·1992 

end at the JACC, she said. The Notre Dame Marching Band will then lead spectators into the stadium for a pep rally, she said. 
In addition to the ND band, the parade will feature community groups (including a local high school band) as well as student floats, Pamenter said. Dorms have been paired up and will work on their floats together, she said. 
The pep rally will feature speeches by head football coach Lou Holtz, several players, and other special guests, she said. A student master of ceremonies for the pep rally will be chosen through a contest that will be held during September. 
The pep rally will also include the selection of the Homecoming King, Queen and their court, she said. 
The dorms and various student organizations will nominate two individuals who represent the 'Spirit of Notre Dame,'" Pamenter said. Then, an election will narrow the candidates down to ten men and ten women. 
Out of this group, a court of seven men and seven women will be chosen, Pamenter said, and the king and queen Alumni Association will host a recep­tion for members of past football teams and their spouses, Pamenter said. 
A luncheon and autograph session with these former Irish players will take place after the reception, she ­added. 
The rest of the year will be full of cultural events, meetings and celebrations, Moore said. 
• 
All of the colleges of the University will be holding symposia to highlight their educational and scholarly pursuits. 

• 
A Notre Dame postcard will be issued by the post office on Oct. 15. 

• 
An alumni social concerns workshop will be held on from Jan. 31 to Feb. 2, 1992. 

• 
The city of South Bend will pay tribute to Notre Dame with a Community Sesquicentennial Tribute to be held downtown at Century Center on Feb. 6. 

• 
The Fischer Graduate Complex will be dedicated on April 30. 

•The 
Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Building will be dedicated on Oct. 9, 1992. 

• 
Nov. 26. 1992 is the actual date of the 150th anniversary, but no official events have been planned for that day. 


..
The last official events will take place on Oct. 12 and 13, as the concluding symposium and convocation will be held, Moore said. 
For a complete calendar of the 
Sesquicentennial Year, a special pullout section will appear in The Observer on 
-
Friday, August 30. 


SISQUICENHN~IAL 


page 16 The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1991 

NFL teams cut rosters to 47; Manley released by Cards 
The Observer accepts classified& every business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classWieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
I 
HOME AWAY FROM HOMEI 4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, GRATEFUL DEAD tickets for sale. NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. 2 ROOMS TO RENT, $250/MO., washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 Cleveland, Ohio.• Sept. 4,5,6. (216) Please help east coast double 
-NOTICES PERSONALS
$250 DEP. KITCHEN, LAUNDRY N. St. Peter. 233-9947. 371-0575. domer bring his family to an Irish 
FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. victory. Call Sam at USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII 232·2794. MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR COMPUTER DESK-$160. (201) 334-3804. 25% off list price HOUSE SOUTH OF TOWN. 10 2 TWIN MATIRESS SETS • $40 I am the Lizard King and I can do 10-5:30 everyday 2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. MINS. TO CAMPUS. I'M GONE 6 EACH NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. anything. Pandora's Books corner of ND WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL MONTHS IN YEAR. CALL RICK 1 FULL MATIRESS SET • $60 GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR ave & Howard 287-2159. 291·8155 EVE.; 258-5201 PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­
DAY 259-2302, LV. NAME & 612-227·7577. $$$$ VCR, TV Rentals: NUMBER ONLY. BROWN COUCH $30. Need GA's to all home games.LOST/FOUND Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters Lorraine 239-5435 between WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO' have extra Purdue tix.
I I 
only $99.95. ROOM FOR RENT· LARGE HOME 8-5. HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL Call Tom x1563 
13" color TV, two semesters only 2.5 BLKS FROM NO, $290 MO. COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR $69.95. UTIL INCL. 234-0873. PROFESSIONALLY BUILT Happy birthday Joe Roberts. IN MAIN BUILDING. CALL LYN VCR, two semesters, $99.95. STUDENT LOFT $50. NOTRE DAME 239-7367. For fast free delivery, call NEAR NO -Quaint furnished apts. REFRIGERATOR $40. TICKETS WANTED ATIENTION: STUDENTS! 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 1 bedrm $260, 755 South Bend 289-8404. 271-1371 $5.50 HAIRCUTS 272-5959. Ave.
WANTED 2 bedrm $360,607 E. Corby. FUTONS ETC. NOTRE DAME TICKETS VITO'S BARBER SHOP FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, dep. ref. 1-800-582-9320 Best Prioesl FOR SALE 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call CALL 271-1371. 233-4767
Downtown book warehouse now ENTRANCE, UTILITIES FOR RENT-605 N. St. Peter, 5 1-800-484-1060 Walkinshiring . Send name, add., phone#, INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. Bedroom, 1.5 bath, furnished for 3· When You Hear a Tone, Dial1576 .~-yr./major, 
272·0615. 6. $135 moJeach +share utilities . WE SHIP IU TICKETS? I need them in a big
hours /days available to: Elmer 288-8341,288-3942. way. Call 283-4098. hey nilP. 0. Box 4621 , South Bend IN 
RENT ME PONTIAC PHOENIX LJ, '80, 118K,
46624 
B & B available near ND on football WELL-MAINTAINED, $950. 239-NEED: 8 GA's for Indiana game Spacious 5 bedroom house in safe weekends. 271-0989. 60721684-2994. Will pay big $$$11 Call X1076 MAGGIEBicycle, 26" or 28", cheap,call 283· area. Beach V-ball court, private LAURIE4154 or x2847 parking lot. Close to campus. Semi· House for rent, one block from NO, $$$$$$$$ KATEY furnished. professors, stall, or graduates, 650 JAGUAR XJS, 79, 56K, KAREN: Your FIRST personal ofBABYSITTER NEEDED N.D. 
234·3831 or 288-5653. month, 234· 1714 RED/BLACK, AUTO, AJC, I WANT TO GIVE YOU MONEY.•. the year, to be followed byHOME GAMES· OTHER MISC.
.. LOVINGLY MAINTAINED, $9,000. for your IU tix. numerous others I'm sure. Alii can
TIMES AVAILABLE. $4+/HR. 
3 BEDROOM HOME 239-60721684-2994. Need GA's or students. say is this: the WALK from 3A to 1 B 
234·2354.' FOR SALE 
913 LAWRENCE I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL x1236 has just begun. Fire up for our $500 DEPOSIT, $555 MONTH HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 "new" thirtysomething (any ideas?),
Post advertising materials on 232-3616 $$$$$$$$ Sandy's care packages/Carol's
campus. Write: College Distributors, Couch and furniture for sale. 
cinnamon rolls, and painting the33 Pebblewood Tr., Naperville,IL 287·0060
NICE FURNISHED ROOMS, ALUM NEEDS 2 I.U. TX. I WANT WANTED TO BUY: Bend blue and gold in the60563. 
GOOD AREA, CLOSE TO NO. TO COME BACK TO N.D. TO ASK student ticket applications. Monymobile. (and Purdue,
LADIES BIKE
277·3097. MY GIRLFRIEND TO MARRY ME I x1236 Michigan, and Mardi Gras for that 
-
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER Will PAY $100 FOR 2 GENERAL mamer.) I look forward to all of ourELECTRIC ORGAN
Student rentals now available for ADMISSION TX. PLEASE CALL criminal activities and anticipate our
DORM REFRIGERATOR
2 R MONND '91·'92 school year. Call 232-5411 CARL DURING WORK HOURS AT if you're not using your ftbl tix appl. Advil mornings with nervous angst.
PHONE: 291·9272
AVE.FURNISHED.272-6306 or 234·0379. 1-800-745-5402. I'll buy itl fred @ 2322 Til then..........mony 

Cincinnati Bengals running back Stanford Jennings was released yesterday as NFL teams cut their rosters down to the maximum of 47 players. 
Victim wants no part of suit against Tyson 
For others it may be a day 
off-many are cut and brought 
back later in the week after 
teams place players they want 
to keep around on injured 
reserve. 
"It's like playing poker. 
You're trying not to show your 
hand," Denver coach Dan 
Reeves said. "You've got to bluff 
somewhat." 
For still others, it's a tempo­
rary interruption before they're 
signed by another team. Bubba 
Paris, left tackle for the 49ers 
before being cut last week, was 
signed by the Colts on Monday. 
And for rookies, it may he a 
few days in limbo before they 
go to a developmental squad. 
That means they can practice 
hut can't play unless they clear 
waivers again. 
One man· who made it 
against the odds was Terry 
Long, the veteran Pittsburgh 
guard, who underwent psychi­
atric treatment after telling 
police he attempted suicide fol­
lowing a positive test for 
steroids. He rejoined the 
Steelers last Tuesday and will 
begin the season as a backup 
Carlton Haselrig. 
Some veterans who lost their jobs: 
-Manley, who joined the Cards last year after being re­instated by commissioner Paul Tagliabue following a year's suspension for substance abuse. Released by Washington after the suspension, he was the often outsppken hub of the Redskins' defense during the mid '80s and is fifth on the NFL's all-time sack list with 'H. 
-Duerson, who won Super Bowl rings with both the Bears and Giants, was a Pro Bowler with the Bears and was cut by New York. 
-Running back Gerald Riggs, 30 and defensive tackle Darryl Grant, 31, were cut by the Redskins. But coach Joe Gibbs said he hoped to bring hack Riggs if he clears waivers 

-his age, past injury problems 
and a $1 million-plus contract 
are expected to make teams shy 
away from him. 

The rmal cut by the Redskins 
included Grant, the 11-year de­
fensive tackle who was hobbled 
much of the preseason with a 
thigh injury and only returned 
to practice last week. 

-Donald Igwebuike, who 
was accused of heroin smug­
gling last October and found 
innocent in April, was cut by 
the Vikings, meaning Fuad 
Reveiz will he the kicker. The 
Vikings also cut receiver Leo 
Lewis, an 11-year man, and 
running back Darrin Nelson, a 
10-year man who had returned 
after being dispatched in the 
Herschel Walker deal. 

Linebacker Jerry 
Robinson, a 13-year-veteran cut 
by the Raiders. He goes all the 
way hack to the Eagles' 1980 
Super Bowl team 

-Defensive lineman Andre 
Townsend, 29, a part-time 
starter on the Broncos' three 
Supe·r Bowl teams in 1986, 
1987 and 1988. 

-Guard Billy Ard, a starter on the Giants' 1986 Super Bowl team. He was cut by Green Bay, could be reactivated after the roster is set. The Packers also cut Mark Lee, a starting cornerback for the Packers for most of his 12-year career. 
-Eddie Johnson, an 11­year veteran who was once part of one of the NFL's best linehacking corps with the Browns. 
-David Galloway, once the f.ards' best defensive linemen. 
cut by the· Broncos. 

-Disgruntled strong safety Terry Kinard and kick returner Gerald McNeil by the Oilers. 
-Running hack Stanford Jennings of the Bengals, best known for his 93-yard kickoff return for a touchdown that nearly won the 1989 Super Bowl with San Francisco. 
(AP) -Dexter Manley, Dave Duerson and a host of other one-time heroes were sent packing on Monday, the NFL's unkind est day of all. 
The league's 28 teams got down to the 47-player limit by ridding themselves largely oi 
MILLEN, Ga. (AP) -A Miss Black America contestant who says boxer Mike Tyson touched her improperly nonetheless wants no part of a lawsuit against the former heavyweight champ. 
"I don't think a lawsuit is necessary," said Jacqueline Boatwright of Millen, who is among 10 contestants listed as victims in the suit a pageant of­ficial has filed against Tyson. "I think the whole thing is being blown out of proportion." 
The $21 million suit by pageant director J. Morris 
two types -rookies and free agents and veterans who tried to hang on for another season. 
"The toughest decisions I have to make are always with veterans that have contributed to the success we've had in the past," said Miami coach Don 
Anderson accuses Tyson of fondling the 10 women during festivities surrounding the July event in Indianapolis. 
Boatwright said she was not asked before her name was placed in the lawsuit. She said she did not tell Anderson that Tyson had "patted me on my, you know, behind" until two weeks later, when she called him to discuss something else. 
"It was at that time he asked me if Mike Tyson touched me, and I told him he did," she said. "I discovered my name was on Shula, who cut linebacker Barry Krauss and cornerback Paul Lankford, who combined for 22 years of NFL experience. 
For some like Manley, trying to come back from a drug sus­pension, it could be the end of a career. 
the lawsuit after the London Times called me about it a week after" the phone conversation. 
Tyson, who was recruited by pageant officials to be part of the festivities, has become em­broiled in controversy over his 
behavior there. 

An Indianapolis grand jury reportedly is considering an 18­year-old contestant's allegation that Tyson raped her. And a former Miss Black America sued him for $100 million in federal court in New York ear­lier this month. 
The Observer

Tuesday, August 27, 1991 page 17 

SCOREBOARD 

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
All Tlmeo EDT  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
E..t Dlvlolon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Detroit  69  57  .548  
Toronto  69  57  . 548  
Boaton  63  62  .504  5112  
Milwaukee  60  65  .480  8 112  
New York  56  67  .455  11 112  
Bahlmore  52  73  .418  16 112  
Cleveland  41  83  .331  27  
Wnt Olvlalon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Mlnneaota  76  51  . 598  
Chicago  67  58  .536  8  
Oakland  68  59  .535  8  
T9Xao  65  59  .524  9 112  
Kanaas City Seanto  64 65  60 61  .616 .516  10 112 10112  
Calli om Ia  61  64  .488  14  
NATIONAL LE AGUE  
E..t Dlvlolon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Plnsburgh  72  51  .585  
St. Louis  68  55  .553  4  
Chicago  62  82  .500  10 112  
New York  61  63  .492  11 112  
Philadelphia  60  64  .484  12 112  
Montreal  50  73  .407  22  
Weot Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Loa Angelea  69  55  .556  
Atlanta  68  56  .548  1  
Cincinnati  61  63  . 492  8  
San Diego  61  64  .488  8 112  
San Francisco  60  64  .484  II  
Houaton  51  73  .411  18  

Z·denotee lira! game was a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mondoy'a Gomea 
Texas 10, New York 2 
1or onto 5. Baltimore 2 
Minnesota 6, Cleveland 3 
Kanaaa City 7, Chicago 0 
Boston 3, Oakland 0 
Oetroh 5, Gallornla 1 
Seanla 5, Mllwaullaa 4, 14 Innings 
Tuaoday'o Gomea Texaa (Guzman 8-5) at New York (Perez 1-1), 7:30p.m. Toronto (Guzman 4-2) at Bahlmo<e (Rhodea 0-0}, 7:35p.m. Minnesota (Morris 15-9} at Cleveland (Swindell 7-12}, 7:35p.m. Chicago (Alvarez t-1} at Kansas Cny (Aquino 6­2}, 8:36 p.m. Beaton (Gardiner 5-6} at Oakland (Welch 11-8}, I 0:05p.m. Detroit (Cerunl 2-4} at California (Finley 15-7), I 0:35p.m. Milwaukee (Auguat 9-5) at Seanlo (Delucia tO­B), 10:35 p.m. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Mondoy'o Gameo 
Cincinnati 5, Philadelphia 4 
San Diego 7, Pittsburgh 5, 10 Innings 
Atlanta t4, Montreal 9 
Loa Angeles 4, Chicago 3 
St. Louis 7, San Francisco 6 
New York 6, Houaton 4, tO lnmngs 
Tuaodoy·a Gomea Loo Angelee (Manlnez 15-8} at Chicago (Castillo 4·2), 2:20p.m. San Diego (Bonee t-2} at Plnsburgh (Smith II­II), 3·05 p.m. Philadelphia (Ruffin 3-4) at Cincinnati (Scudder 4-4}, 7:35p.m. Montreal (Nabholz 2-6} at Atlanta (Lelbrandt 12­11 ), 7:40p.m. New York (Whnehurst 5-9} at Houston (Kilo 5-8), 8:35p.m. San Franclaco (McClellan 3-1} at St. Louis (Tewkabury 8-9}. 8:35p.m. 
BASEBALL LINESCORES 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Minnesota 000 102 020-5 I 0 0 
Cleveland 000 002 001-3 7 0 
Tapanl, Aguilera (9) and Harper; Otto, Hillegas 
(9) and Skinner. W-Tapanl, 12-7. L-Ono, t-4. Sv-Agullera (34). HAs-Minnesota, Mack (16), Harper (7), Pucken (14). 
Toronto 000 311 OQ0-5 11 2 
Baltimore 001 010 OQ0-2 10 0 
Key, Timlin (7), Henke (9) and Myers, Borders (6); 
Johnson, Poole (6), Flanagan (9) and Holies. W­
Key, 13-9. L-Johnson, 4-5. Sv-Henke (30). 
HAs-Toronto, White (12). Bahlmore, Devereaux 
(15). 
T9Xas 003 103 030-10 12 1 
New York 000 002 OQ0-2 5 0 
Brown, Rosenthal (9) and Petralll; Plunk, 
Monteleone (6), Guetterman (8) and Nokes. W­
Brown, 9-10. L-Piunk, 2-3. HAs-Texas, Palmeiro 
(22), Reimer (14), Petralll (1), Franco (12}. 
Chicago 000 000 000--0 0 
Kansas City 203 200 OOx-7 13 1 
Hough, Panerson (3), Pall (4), Radlnsky (8) and 
Karkovlce, Marullo (8}; Saberhagen and Mayne. 
Boston 000 tOO 110-3 7 0 
Oakland 000 000 000--0 3 o 
Clemens and Marzano; Moore, Honeycun (9}, 
Eckersley (9} and Quirk. W--Ciemens, 13-8. L­
Moore, 12-8. HRs-Boaton, Clark (22}, Plantler (3}. 
Detroit 101 001 2Q0-5 13 1 
Calllornla 000 010 000-1 10 0 
M.Lelter, Gakelor (7} and Tenleton; Grahe, Balles 
(7), Beasley (7), J.O.Roblnson (9} and Parrish. W­
M.Letter, 7-2. L--Grahe, 1-6. Sv--Gakeler (2). 

Milwaukee 300 000 100 000 Q0-4 12 0 
Seanle 000 301 000 000 01-5 9 o 
(14 Innings} 
Ignasiak, Machado (4}, Lee (8}, Crlm (9), Henry 
(13) and Der11>88Y, Sumoff (7); Krueger, Jackson (7), Murphy (9), Swift (9}, Swan (13}, Schooler (13) and Valle, Bradley (13}. W-Schooler, 1-2. L­Henry, 2-1. HR--Seanle, T.Martlnez (1). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Philadelphia 100 300 OQ0-4 4 
Cincinnati 300 020 OOx-5 7 0 
DeJesus, Hartley (3), Soever (7) and Daulton; 
Sanford, Groaa (5}, Dibble (8) and Oliver. W­
Gross, 6-4. L-Hartley, 3-1. Sv-Dibble (25). 
HAs-Philadelphia, Oauhon (10), C.Hayes (9}. 
Cincinnati, Sabo (19}. 
San Diego 110 000 201 2-7 11 1 
Plnsburgh 103 000 010 0-5 9 0 
(10 Innings} 
Harris, RI.Rodrlguaz (7), Lefferts (9} and Santiago; 
Tomlin, Mason (8), Ro.Rodrlguez (8), Landrum (9), 
Kipper (9} and LaValliere. W-Lefferts, t-5. L­
Landrum, 1-4. HAs-san Diego, Ward (1}, Teufel 
(7), Gwynn (4). Pittsburgh, Redus (6). 
Montreal 300 220 002-9 15 3 
Atlanta OOt 052 24x-14 14 2 
Haney, Sampen (5), Ruskin (7), Fassero (8) and 
Fitzgerald, Reyes (7}; Reynoso, Castillo (5}, 
Wohlers (6), Stanton (8} and Cabrera. W­
Wohlera, 1-0. L--5ampen, 6-4. Sv-Stanton (5). 
HAs-Montreal, Wallach (11), Walker (13), 
Calderon (16). Atlanta. Blauser (10), Justice (13). 
Loa Angeles 000 000 004--4 7 
Chicago 100 020 000-3 9 2 
Hershlser, Crews (6}, Gon (7), Howell (9} and 
Scloscla; Sutcliffe, McElroy (9), Lancaster (9), 
Assenmacher (9) and Wilkins. W--Gott, 3-3. L­
McEiroy, 5-2. Sv-Howell (14}. 
San Francisco 210 030 000---6 13 1 
St. Louis 320 200 oox-7 9 0 
Black, Beck (2), Hickerson (4}, Brantley (8} and 
Kennedy; B.Smlth, Fraser (5), Carpenter (6), Terry 
(8), L.Smnh (9) and Pagnozzl. W--Carpenter, 10-3. 
L-Biack, 9-13. Sv-L.Smlth (36}. HAs-San 
Francisco, W.Ciark 2 (26}, Thompson (16). St. 
Louis, o.smnh (2}. 

New York 000 210 100 2---6 11 0 Houston 000 200 020 0--4 9 1 (10 Innings) 
Fernandez, Pena (7), Franco (9) and Cerone; Harnisch, Osuna (8), Henry (9} and Biggio. W­Franco, 3-7. L-Henry, 3-2. HAs-Houston, Camlnnl (11}, Tolentino (1}. 


BASEBALL LEADERS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

G AS R H Pet. Franco lex 112 451 85 153 .339 Palmelro Tex 123 500 96 169 .338 Boggs Ban 115 436 78 147 .337 Molnor Mil 120 511 101 170 .333 Puckett Min 123 498 75 164 .329 CRipken Bh 125 499 82 164 .329 GrlffeyJrSea 119 418 60 137 .328 Tartabull KC 102 388 66 126 .325 Thomas Chi 125 452 85 145 .321 Greenwell Ban 120 452 60 141 .312 
RUNS-Molltor, Milwaukee, 101; Palmelro, Texas, 96; Canseco, Oakland, 90; Sierra, Texas, 87; White, Toronto, 86; Thomas, Chicago, 85; Franco, Texas, 85. 
RBI-Fielder, Oetron, 111; Thomas, Chicago, 96; Canseco, Oakland, 92; JuGonzalez, Texas, 91; Carter, Toronto, 88; Sierra, Texas, 87; Joyner, CalllornIa, 88. 
HITS-Molllor, Milwaukee, 170; Palmelro, Texas, 169; Puckett, Minnesota, 164; CRipken, Bahlmore, 164; Sierra. Texas, 155; Franco, Texas, 153; Boggs, Beaton, 147. 
OOUBLES-Palmelro, Texas, 37; Boggs, Beaton, 36; Griffey Jr, Seattle, 35; RAiomar, Toronto, 34; Carter, Toronlo, 34; Brett, Kansas Cny, 34; Sierra, Texas, 33; CRipken, Baltimore, 33. 
HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroit, 36; Canseco, Oakland, 35; Caner, Toronto, 28; Thomas, Chicago, 26; COavls, Minnesota, 26; CRipken, Bahlmore, 26; JuGonzalez, Texas, 25; Tartabull, Kansas Cny, 25; Tellleton, Detroit, 25. 
STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 48; Raines, Chicago, 43; RAiomar, Toronto, 40; Polonla. California, 38; Cuyler, Detroit. 32; While, Toronto, 30; Franco, Texas, 25. 
PITCHING (11 Oeelalono}-Henneman, Detroit, 9-2, .818, 2.72; Klink, Oakland, 9-3, .750, 4.21; Erickson, Minnesota, 16-6, .727, 3.22; Hesketh, Boston, 8-3, .727, 3.69; Gullickson, Detron, 16-6, .727, 4.12; Stonlemyre, Toronto, 12-5, .706, 3.57; Finley, Calllornla, 15-7, .882, 3.90; Langston, Callfomla, 15-7, .682, 3.23. 
SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 36; Aguilera, Minnesota, 34; Harvey, California, 31; Reardon, Boston, 31; Henke, Toronto, 30; Thigpen, Chicago, 27; Olson, Baltimore, 26. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE G AS R H Pel. TGwynn SO 124 493 87 162 .329 Morris Cln 104 365 52 118 .323 Pendleton All 118 431 76 137 .318 WCiark SF 116 447 86 140 .313 Bonilla Pn 120 450 77 141 .313 Butler LA 123 479 89 150 .313 Joae StL 117 436 54 136 .312 McGee SF 114 354 51 110 .311 Nixon Ad 107 351 72 106 .302 osmnh SIL 114 417 78 125 .300 RUNS-Buller, Loa Angeles, 89; Sandberg, Chicago, 81; Gant, Allanta, 78; Johnson, New York, 78; OSmhh, St. Louis, 78; JBell, Pittsburgh, 77; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 77. RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, 101; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 90; McGriff, San Diego, 82; Johnaon, New York, 82; Dawson, Chicago, 81; Bonilla Plnsburgh, 80; Gant, Atlanta, 79. HITS-TGwynn, San Otago, 162; Butler, Los Angelea, 150; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 141; WCiark San Francisco, 140; Grace, Chicago, 1311 Pendleton, Atlanta, 137; Jose, St. Louis, 136 Sandberg, Chicago, 136. DOUBLES-Bonllla, Pittsburgh, 37; Jose, St Louis, 38; Morris, ClnclnnaJI, 28; Sabo, Clnclnnat 27; Ganl, Allanta, 27; McReynolds, New York, 2; Zelle, St. Louis, 26; Grace, Chicago, 26; TGwynn San Diego, 26. HOME RUNs-Gant, Atlanta, 27; WCiark, San Francisco, 26; Johnaon, New York, 26; McGriff, San Diego, 25; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 24; KvMitchell, San Francisco, 24; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 23. STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 87; Grissom, Montreal, 54; DeShields, Montreal, 47; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 38; Coleman, New York, 37; Butler, Los Angeles, 34; OSmhh, Sl. Louis, 32. PITCHING (11 Oeclalona)--Carpenter, St. Louis, 10-3, .769, 4.12; Downs, San Franclaco, 10­
4, .714, 3.65; Rljo, Cincinnati, 10-4, .714, 2.50; Hurst, San Diego, 14-6, .700, 3.32; DeJesus, Philadelphia, 9-4, .692, 3.54 
SAVES-LeSmnh, St. Louis, 36; Dibble, Clnclnnall, 25; MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia, 24; Franco, New York, 23; Righetti, San Franclaco, 20; Lefferts, San Diego, 18; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 



1991 NOTRE DAME 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Saberhagen no-hits White Sox KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -stretched at the last second on the crowd and I figured what On the greatest night of his the front edge of the warning happened," said Sabcrhagen, much-honored career, the track as the ball grazed off his who had thrown five 2-hittors cheers of the crowd meant a lot glove. , but had never taken a no-hitter more to Bret Saberhagen than Pasqua reached second base past the seventh inning. simple moral support. and everybody waited for tho It told him an over-eager decision by official scorer Del Controversial or not, the ef­scoreboard operator sat red-Black. fort by the 27-year-old faced in the pressbox. Most of Everybody, that is, but the righthander was overpowering all, it said his no-hitter against guy operating the giant elec­from start to finish. He struck the White Sox had not died in tronic scoreboard. As out five and walked two and the fifth inning, but was still Saberhagen stole a glance at had only a couple of other alive. And that was all he the 12-story-high scoreboard, ncar-hits. needed. the "0" under the Chicago hit "Now I know how Nolan line switched to "1." "Some guys got no-hitters (Ryan) feels like," Saberhagen Saberhagen turned away and without no-hitter stuff," said beamed after beating the White poured his full concentration to White Sox manager Jeff Sox 7-0 Monday night with a the next batter, Lance Johnson. Torborg, whose club lost its no-hitter that cannot escape a But Black was studying televi­seventh straight. "There was twinge of controversy. "I real­sion replays and still ponder­no luck involved here. He ize what I've accomplished and ing. Then he announced an or­earned it. After the controver­it's something I'll always look ror on Gibson, and the "1" sial call, he just cranked it up back on." went back to a "0" and another leveL He was really The two-time Cy Young Saberhagen, his back to the throwing hard after that." Award winner and 1985 World scoreboard, heard a mighty Series MVP retired Carlton Fisk cheer go up from the crowd of on a liner back to the mound more than 25,000. "He had good control, good leading off the fifth. Then Dan He didn't take a second look command, and got his curveball Pasqua hit a slicing line drive at the scoreboard. He didn't over and his changcup over," into left. have to. Royals manager Hal McRae Kirk Gibson ran back on an "You can pretty well tell by said. "He dominated the White angle toward center and the crowd's reaction. I heard Sox with a 90 mph fastbalL"  


-----~-----~-~--­
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1991 
Spartans gunning for Rose Bowl 
A's perilously close to 

EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) -Bill Johnson has seen only good times as a defensive end at Michigan State. 
Winning seasons capped by bowl games every year, two first-place finishes in the Big Ten and a Rose Bowl appear­ance. 
But the fifth-year senior wants more. And so do the other five Spartans who played on the 1988 Rose Bowl team. 
"We talked about it a little bit yesterday. It would be nice to end a five-year career with a national championship. That's not to say us six are going to take us there. If anybody wants it probably more than anybody else, I would say it's us, I guess," he said. 
Speedy flanker Courtney Hawkins was still a senior in high school when the Spartans made their last Rose Bowl ap­pearance, but his goal is the same as Johnson's. 
"We have a national cham­pionship and a Big Ten cham­pionship in our sights. That's what we strive for. We'll see how close we can get to it," he said. 
Never mind that the other Big Ten school in the state gets most of the nods for the con­ference championship and na­tional crown. 
"That's preseason. All the games still got to be won be­tween the lines," said Hawkins. 
Coach George Perles expects this year's squad to be as solid as last year's, with its 8-3-1 record and John Hancock Bowl 
.
.... victory. "We look for a consistent program. We look to be in the race every year. We don't look for peaks and valleys," Perles said. He brushes aside talk about preseason favorites. "I have nothing to do with these ratings. I don't know why people are rated where they are. It's just kind of a guess that someone does and everybody follows. It's not a big deal," he said. As far as Perles is con­cerned, Michigan State already has earned its right to be counted among the nation's elite football powers. 
$1 million donation earmarked to build new baseball field 
Observer Staff Report 
Franklin E. Eck, a member of the Notre Dame Class of 1944, along with Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., have made a $1 million gift to the university for construction of a new baseball stadium. 
The new facility will be named Frank E. Eck Stadium and will feature a lighted grass playing field and a permanent capacity 
"I don't think there's another level. I think we're at the level we want to be at. We've had great success at this level," he said. 
The Spartans lost seven starters each on offense and defense from the team that shared the Big Ten champi­onship last year with three other teams. 
Perles believes this year's team can improve on that record. 
Last year's leader, quarter­back Dan Enos, is gone. Finding a replacement will be at the top of Perles' list during fall practice. 
None of the four prospects is a favorite yet. Perles will an­nounce his choice Sept. 8, the Sunday before Michigan State opens its season with Central Michigan. 
"We're looking for someone that's being rushed and can improvise, get out of trouble, take a broken play and make a winning play out of it," Perles said. 
The most experienced quar­terback prospect is UCLA transfer Bret Johnson. As a Bruin, he started all 11 games in 1989, completing 57.5 per­cent of his passes for 1, 791 yards and 12 touchdowns. 
But Johnson's real strength is making something out of nothing. 
"That's what I think, a good quality in a quarterback is to be able to make something happen when there's nothing else there," he said. 
Enos' backup, Jim Miller, played for brief stints in just four games last year. Also fighting for the job will be John Gieselman, who did not see any game action last year, and Millard Coleman, a redshirt freshman. 
Whoever lands the starting job will stand behind an offen­sive line that averages 300 pounds. 
With Hawkins and tailback Tico Duckett returning, Perles has the nucleus of an offense that can take advantage of 
The Obeerver/John Cluver One of the pressing questions at Michigan State this fall is who will replace last year's starting quarterback, Dan Enos. 

falling out of West race 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­When figuring out if they are still alive in the AL West, the Athletics prefer psychology to math. 
"We've fought through a lot of things all year, and we have to show our character again," says reliever Gene Nelson. 
"We have to first realize we_ are still in this and take advan­tage of the games against Minnesota when they lose," says Dave Stewart, the four­time 20-game winner still look­ing for his lOth victory this season. 
But in a purely mathematical sense, the numbers don't look good for Oakland to win a fourth straight AL pennant. With 36 games left, they trail the Minnesota Twins by seven. If the Twins slack off and play just .500 the rest of the way, the A's need to go 25-11 just to tie. 
No matter what happens, the A's need to start winning when the Twins lose. While the Twins lost two of three in Baltimore, they still gained a game on the A's, who were swept by the Milwaukee Brewers over the weekend. 
"That's damaging," said Jose Canseco. "We could have gained two games. It's over with, and we can't look back. We just have to keep going forward." 
Oakland manager Tony La Russa knows his math well. 
"The reason it's so impor­i.auL to win your owu games is because the top team will lose a game or so," said La Russa. "It doesn't matter if you lose and Minnesota loses. You have 
Still Looking for a Course? 
The following Sociology courses are open for additional enrollment: 
Soc. 302, Research Methods Soc. 372, Religion in America Soc. 374, Irish in America Soc. 404, International Migration (1 credit) Soc. 418, Patriotism & National Ritual Soc. 420, Ethnicity in America Soc. 446, Family Problem Solving 


Course descriptions available in Sociology Department Office, 325 O'Shaughnessy. 

gained nothing. You have to win your own games." 
Just when the A's looked on 
the verge of dropping out of 
sight after a seven-game losing 
streak, they won four in a row, 
including a three-game sweep 
of the Angels. Nothing turns 
the momentum back around 
quicker than being outscored 
28-6 in three home games by a 
sub-.500 team from the AL 
East. 

"I don't like winning a series, then losing one; that doesn't make it," said La Russa. 
Ron Darling helped pump life into the ragged Jlls starting rotation, going 3-0 with a 1.69 ERA in his first four starts after the July 31 trade with Montreal. But even he's been proven human now, after allowing seven runs and 13 hits to the Brewers in an 8-2 loss Sunday. 
"You can't keep playing good one series and bad the next," said Darling. "The rea­son we lost this series was our pitching. The reason we swept the Angels was our pitching. That's the bottom line. 
"We know we can play well, and we know we can play poorly. We'd like to start working on eliminating the lat­ter." 
The Jlls are in the middle of their longest homestand of the season-12 games-but the bats stayed on the road. They've scored only 13 runs in six games . 
.Mark ivit:\;wire may souu ve headed for platoon status. The perennial All-Star first base­man is batting .202 overall and only .166 at home. 


Rocco's Restaurant 
Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students since 1951 
Only a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian Cuisine Try us and you'll agree 
Tues-Thurs 5 pm-12 am Fri -Sat 5 pm -1 am 
537 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 Closed Sunday & Monday 
when you have 
mbt New!J!orl\mimes 
h.•livered on the day of publication 

Rates are .30¢ daily. The Sunday paper is $3.00. Papers are delivered to dorms and faculty offices. For more infonnatlon call Greg Kletzly 
at 272-5896.  Fall Term  
Mon.-Fri.  $20.10  
Mon.-Sat.  $23.40  
Mon.-Sun.  $S6.40  
Sunday Only  $33.00  

Delivery for Fall tenn begins on Sat. 3, ends on Dec.13. Subscription price does not Include dellvery during school holidays or breaks. 
of 1,500 spectators, with the capability of an additional 1,500 temporary seats. It will replace Jake Kline Field, the current on-campus site of Notre Dame baseball games. 
"I'm ecstatic about the new stadium," Irish coach Pat Mur­phy said. "It's something I've dreamed about since I got the job here. It's definitely some­thing that's badly needed for a team that bas attracted the type of opposition it's been facing." 
Eck prevttfusly has endowed a collection in chemical engineer­ing at the Hesburgh Library and underwrote construction of the Eck Tennis Pavilion, the indoor tennis facility on the east edge of campus. 
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. is a Columbus, Ohio-based producer of corrugated plastic drainage pipe for agricultural, commercial and construction. 



. .) .,.,... 

Tuesday, August 27, 1991 
The Observer page 19 





SAFETY CONCERNS 
• 
During the past year, the off-campus area just south of the University of Notre Dame has been the site of a number of assaults involving students as victims. 

• 
The principal area of concern is indicated on the map below, but other attacks have occurred just east and north of campus. 

• 
The number of violent crimes on University property remains relatively low, but accostings have been reported in the area of St. Mary's Road, St. Joseph's Lake and the parking lots across from the Library. 


HERE IS WHAT YOU CAN DO TO
HERE IS WHAT THE UNIVERSITY IS DOING PROTECT YOURSELF
TO PROTECT YOU 
• Assaults have occured in the area south of campus and in
• University security and police officers provide 24 peripheral areas of campus. If at all possible, avo1d thosehour foot and vehicular patrols on the campus prop­areas after dark. 
erty. Additionally, security personnel are stationed at the East and Main Gates on a 24 hour basis • Don't over consume alcohol. Alcohol dulls your judgment and awareness and slows your reflexes. 
• A campus Emergency Call Box System has been 
installed. Eighteen call boxes have been located in • Be aware of your surroundings at all times. Is there som~­peripheral parts of campus; these phones should be one in front of you or behind you? Does someone appear to be following you? If persons ahead of you appear threaten­
used to report suspicious activity or crimes to the ing, cross tne street Security/Police Department. 
• Don't walk alone. Avoid dark areas. Try to travel in
• Campus lighting has been increased. The Univer­sity is continuing to evaluate the sufficiency of lighting groups. Note, however, some reported incidents have 
mvolved victims walking in groups of two or three.
on campus. 
• The SafeWalk Escort Program has been funded by • Use good sense. Don't provoke or otherwise instigate an 
the University to provide escort service anywhere on incident. Avoid large threatening groups of unfamiliar · people.
campus from 8 pm -2 am every night. (After these hours, contact Security for an escort.) Don't walk • If driving a car, park in well-lit areas and lock your doors. 
alone, call SafeWalk at 283-BLUE. 
• The second floor of the Cam(JUS Security Building is • Use the SafeWalk Escort Service on campus from 
available for all night or late naght study. 8 pm -2 am. Call 283-BLUE; at other times, call NO Security at 283-4444 for escort assistance on campus. 
• University security personnel are available for crime . prevention programs, discussions and/or consulta­• If you are a victim, don't threaten or pursue your attacker. tions both on and off campus. Off campus programs Try to get a good description and report it to police. On are cooperative efforts with the South Bend and Saint campus, can 283-4444 or 239-5555. Off campus, call 911. 
Joseph County Police Departments. 
• L~ar~ more about.crime Rrevention s~rategies by partici­
• Officials from the City of South Bend and the patmg m or sponsonng a cnme prevention program avai 1­University meet on a regular basis to work together to able t~rough Notre Dame Security/Police or area police make the South Bend -Notre Dame commumty safer. agenc1es. 
• Take responsibility for your personal safety and the safety of others by BEING ALERT AT ALL TIMES. 

IF YOU SEE TROUBLE ON OR OFF CAMPUS, REPORT IT!!! ON CAMPUS, CALL 283-4444 or 239-5555 OFF CAMPUS, CALL 911 

.________This message is brought to you by the Office of Student Affairs and the Notre Dame Security/Police Department ________. 

Tuesda~August27.~91 
Key's 1OOth victory keeps Jays in hunt 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Jimmy Key fmally won his lOOth game and the Blue Jays retained at least a share of frrst place in the AL East by beating the Orioles 5-2. 
Devon White homered for Toronto, which entered the game in a first-place tie with Detroit. 
Key (13-9) allowed seven hits and two runs in six innings, walking one and striking out two. The 30-year-old left-ban­der snapped a three-game los­ing streak and joined Dave Stieb and Jim Clancy as the only Blue Jays to win 100 games. 
Mike Timlin fanned five in two innings and Tom Henke worked the ninth to get his 30th save. Dave Johnson (4-5) was the loser. 
"TWins 5, Indians 3 
CLEVELAND -Kevin Tapani 
Erickson coming to earth in second half of season 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Maybe won his seventh straight decision and the Twins hit three home runs as they remained perfect against the Indians. 
Shane Mack, Brian Harper and Kirby Puckett all homered for Minnesota, which is 8-0 against the Indians this season. Cleveland helped the Twins during the weekend by sweep­ing a three-game series from the second-place White Sox. 
Tapani (12-7) allowed two runs and six hits in eight in­nings, improving to 10-1 in his last 16 starts. Rick Aguilera pitched the ninth for his 34th save. 
Dave Otto (1-4) gave up five runs and 10 hits in eight in­nings. 
Rangers 10, Yankees 2 
NEW YORK Rafael Palmeiro, Kevin Reimer, Gena Petralli and Julio Franco hit home runs, powering the Rangers past the Yankees. 
Texas won for the fourth time in five games. New York has lost four of five. 
Kevin Brown (9-10) pitched eight innings and gave up two runs on five hits. Franco hit an RBI single in the third inning and Palmeiro followed with his 22nd homer of the season off Eric Plunk (2-3). Petralli hit a three-run drive in the sixth, his first 'home run since June 20, 1989. 

Padres 7, Pirates 5 
PITTSBURGH Tony Gwynn's two-run homer off Bob Kipper won the game in the lOth inning after Jack Howell's two-out pinch single tied it in the ninth as the Padres beat the Pirates 7-5 Monday night. 
Gwynn's homer, his fourth, followed Tony Fernandez's one­out single off Bill Landrum (1­4). Kipper then replaced Landrum and promptly allowed his sixth homer in 50 2-3 in­nings. 
The Pirates were within one out of winning it in the ninth, when Landrum, who entered with one out and none on, al­lowed Howell's run-scoring single. 
Craig Lefferts (1-5) pitched the final two innings for his frrst victory since Sept. 15, 1990. 
with Scott Erickson. 
Perhaps it's just no one re­members he's only in his third pro season, the frrst full one in the major leagues. 
Erickson was arguably the best pitcher in baseball during the firSt half of the season. With a 12-3 record and a 1.83 ERA, the Minnesota Twins' right­hander would have started the All-Star Game if he didn't strain his right elbow in late June. 
Erickson, 23, was put on the disabled list. In his nine starts since his return on July 15, he's gone 4-3 with a 7.49 ERA. The latest disaster was Sunday, when he gave up six earned runs in 4 1-3 innings of a 7-3 loss to the Baltimore Orioles. 
What happened? 
The elbow was a factor in the early going, but Erickson no longer will use it as an excuse. 
"It took awhile for me to get the arm strength back, but it's been all right the last two starts," he said. 
And then? 
"I've just been making some bad pitches," he said. "Those aren't the pitches I can afford to m~ke if I intend to win some gam&S." 
That much is obvious. But teammate Jack Morris, who's got 14 years of major league experience, said there's nothing wrong with Erickson that vir­tually every major leaguer hasn't experienced. 
"It happens to all of us. You can't be perfect every time out," Morris said. "The main thing is you've got to overcome it. Adversity is part of baseball -for everybody." 
It is the first time that Erickson has been in such a si­tuation. He went 8-4 in 19 games in the latter part of last 
.. season and started brilliantly this year. Then came the elbow injury. And then, trouble. 
A 5.49 ERA in July. Three losses in five starts in August. His current 3.22 ERA is the highest it's been all year, and he hasn't pitched more than seven innings in one game in over a month. 

AP Photo Blue Jays' closer Tom Henke picked up his 30th save last night in preserving Toronto's 5-2 victory over Baltimore. The win kept the Jays in a first-place tie with Detroit, 5-1 winners at California. 


SAVE 75% 
MaxPack of 12 
Le~alPads 81/~"x11". 
Catalog List 
Price $15.00 06-010773 

Stempel Wood Frame Cork Board 
~~t;I~·List Price $27.75 $1298 
t 1·001499 


O!flceM&X 

Evexyd&y Price 
SAVE $5.06 
W.T. Rogers Crate-A-FUe n 
Portable, stackable files. Includes 3 hanging file folders. Catalog List Price $11.00 

03·01 0798 Blue !flceMax


$5 9 
Other Colors Available Evoryda.y PMce 
OfficeMax. Over 61000 School &Office Supplies,At Drastically DIScounted Prices Every Day! 
We're Lowering the Cost of Higher Education. 
Supermarket-sized store with Low Prices Guaranteed•. Open to the public. No membership fees. 





SAVE 75% 
Dennison 4-Pack 1" Binders 
1" ring capacity. Available in black vinyl only. 

Dennison 

Catalog List Price $15.00 04..()19234 

·[1--~-­
-


$3~~M&X 
Evexyd&y Price 
Faber CastelllO Ct. PencU 
Catalog List Price $1.50 10-011952......................................... .... 890 Dennison Hilf.hlighter 
Catalog List Price ~5¢ 10-001712 ..................................................................... 490 PaperMate 12 Pk. Stick Pen 
Catalog List Price $3.60 10-000367 ..................................................................... 970 Joshua Meier Report Covers 
50/Pack Catalog List Price $14.00 
04·0 11544 ................•••.....••....•................................. $7.49 
Catalog List Price 99¢ 06-010078 ........•..••..•......•...........................•.......•..•....... 480 06-011291 
OfficeMax Service Center 
•Large Quantlt:y Dupllcatic. .. 
100 per original mimmum 8 1/2" x 11", 20 lb. 
3(: eadl 

wh~e paper, one side. Compare at 7¢ each. 
• Self-Serve Copving 8 1/2" X 11", 20 b. wnitepaper, 
5(: eadl 

one side. Compare at 1~ each. 
Other Services Available: 
• 
01tset Printing • Rubber Stamps ·Business Cards ·NCR Forms 

• 
Letterhead/Envelopes • Fax Services 


SAVE $300.00 
Brother Model WP3400 Word Processor 
Features GrammarCheck with "word-speii"'M 70,000-word dictionary,204 user programmable words and punctuation alert. 3.5' 240KB disk drive for unlimited memory. Catalog List Price $699.00 


$399°0 
02-023544 
OfficeMax Evexyd&y Price 
CASIO SAVE $5.39 
CasioFXllB Scientific Calculator 
154 scientific, mathematical and engineering functions. Independent and constant memories. Includes scientific calculator workbook. Catalog List Price $24.95 

02·012299 
$ 1956OfflceMa.x 
Evexyd&y Price 
*We'll match any competito(s priceQ)on an identical item, or we'll cheerfully refund the difference if the item was purchased from us within seven days of the competito(s ad. 
' 

STORE HOURS: Sunday 11 a.m.-6 p.m. Mon. thru Fri. 8 a.m.-9 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Serving the Michiana Area! 


OfficeMax® 
a 

Savings is the Bottom Line!™ 
,..-------.,. .~'.'.: ..c:: a [Z., 
IECopyright 1991 OfficeMax, Inc. Not responsible for P<inting or typographical errors. 


MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND 
WILSHIRE PLAZA GRAPE AND DOUGLAS RDS. NEXT TO BUILDERS SQUARE 
273-0328 


...-~-----~----------------------~----­
page 21

Tuesday, August 27, 1991 

Fulfill all your communications 

reqtJirements with one course. 
A'TMF STUDENT 
If you're looking for a simple way to handle all of your communications needs, there's one prerequisite. Join AT&T Student
SAVER PLl1S' 
Saver Plus. You'll be able to get an entire line ofproducts and services designed specifically to save college students time and money. 0 Our Reach Out® 
~ ... ~ 


could save you money, no. matter where and when you calL Ca/1 Managert \, :fG\~ft:·: will 
----~-··-··-. 

save you time by separating your long distance calls from your roommates' calls, for free. And the AT&T Calling Card makes it easy to call from 
almost 
anywhere to anywhere. 0 And with AT&T, you'll always get the most reliable long distance service. 0 Plus, ifyou register for 
any ofour services-or ifyou're already an AT&T customer-you'll ~~~ get a free hourS worth ofAT&T long distance calling • A;; well as discounts 
on all kinds of things, all year round. 0 So ask about AT&TStudent Saver Plus. You'll find that for this communications course, we did our homework. 



Join AT&TStudent Saver Plus today. Cal11 800 654-0471 Ext. 4810. 
tThia service may not be available In residence halls on your campus. 'Good IOf one hour ol d•ect·dlaled, coasl-lo-coast, night and weekend calling, based on prices effective 2/t6/9l Offer llmoted to one $8.25 AT&T Long Distance Cerlilicate per student. Ollar wlid through June 30, t992. 
~t!l91 AT&T 

page 22 The Observer Tuesday, August 21, 1991 


Men's cross country ranked 5th 
Two All-Americans return from last year's third-place team 
Notre Dame coach Joe Piane expects the freshmen to con­tribute to the success of this year's team, but the returning runners will be the heart of the team. 
Senior captain Pat Kearns placed in the top 10 in every meet going into districts last year and recorded a firSt-place fmish in the 1990 MCC champi­onships. He will be a consistent runner that the team can de­pend on throughout the season. 
Junior John Coyle returns after a successful season in which his All-American perfor­mance helped Notre Dame fin­ish third in the nation last year. He also won the American World trials and competed in world championships. 
Sophomore Mike McWilliams also had an All-American sea­son in his freshman year. Finishing 34th in the NCAA championships, he was the number two runner for Notre Dame during the NCAA cham­pionships. 
McWilliams also should emerge as a team leader this year, and according to Piane, should be "someone to be reck­oned with" this season. 
Angels ax Rader, replace him with Buck Rodgers 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
Ranked fifth nationally in the preseason, the Notre Dame men's cross country team is looking forward to another successful season. Despite los­ing two of their top runners to graduation, the Irish return with a solid squad and a promising group of freshmen. 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­The Angels, who fell from first place to last in the AL West in a month, fired manager Doug Rader and replaced him with Buck Rodgers. 
Rodgers, ftred as manager by the Montreal Expos on June 2, signed a three-year contract on Monday to take over a team that has failed to win a division title under Rader despite the acquisition of such stars as Dave Winfield, Mark Langston and Gary Gaetti. 
The Angels moved into firSt place by one percentage point over the Twins with a 44-33 record on July 3, but then lost 19 of their next 27 games to fall into last place on Aug. 4 with a 52-52 record. 
California has been in last place since, with a low point coming last Thursday when a 2-1 loss to Oakland put them 15 games behind the Twins. 
Rader, under contract through the 1992 season, was let go despite the Angels' three-game sweep of the Red Sox that left them 13 games behind Minnesota entering Monday night's game against the Tigers. 

The 4 7 -year-old Rader is the seventh manager to be fired this season, while Rodgers is the first of the group to be rehired.Other managers fired this season were the Indians' John McNamara, Don Zimmer of the Cubs, Nick Leyva of Phillies, John Wathan of the Royals and Frank Robinson of the Orioles. 
The Angels won eight of their final 13 games under Rader but it was their inability to beat the three­time division champion Athletics, who won 12 of 13 games against California. 
Rader previously managed the Rangers from 1983-85 ­he was fired early in the 1985 season after the Rangers lost 23 of their ftrst 32 games. His overall record as a manager is 388-417. 
Rodgers' overall record as Montreal's manager was 520­
499. He was in the final year of a contract that paid him about $500,000. 
Replaced by Tom Runnells in Montreal, Rodgers was the most successful manager in Expos history. His overall record as a manager is 644­601. 
Photo courtesy of NO Sports Information Senior captain Pat Kearns heads a talented group of returnees from last year's squad that took third at !_he NCAA championships. 
-·****************** 
. : Hours: Mon. -Fri. 8:00-5:30 : Rec Sports/NVA: :
sat. 8:00-3:00 

deadlines near : ! t MAPLE LANE :
Observer Staff Report 
For students who may no: BARBER SHOP: 
have quite the ability to com-~ Welcome Back Students : 
pete for one of Notre Dame'st • 
varsity teams, the _Rec~ 2112 South Bend Avenue : 
Sports/NVA program prov1des1-South Bend, IN 46637 * 
an outlet for their athletic tal-l-• 
ents. . ~ Appointments if Desired : Signups for men's and1-272 6722 • 
women's interhall football, co-~ -: rec and 16-inch softball, men's 1-* and women's tennis and the r * 
Welcome Students 




BAPTIST Student Union 

Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
Join See usUs! at Activities Night 
h~hm~swimmeetam~e~******************L----------------------------------~ 
by September 4th. Men's interhall soccer lists are to be turned in by September 11th. 
The Rec Sports/NVA office is on the first floor of the Joyce ACC's North Dome next to the equipment issue room. All par­ticipants will have to provide proof of insurance in order to compete. 
Rec Sports/NVA also offers aerobics classes designed for all different types of work­outs-from beginners to high intensity to water aerobics. 
Classes in both karate and judo also are on tap for the fall semester. The karate program costs $15 per semester, while the judo classes cost $25 with limited enrollment. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM~ 

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'O.JR LIFE 
American Heart Ja Association -y 
This space provided as a public service. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
LOOK FOR YOUR. FILM CALEN IN THE MAIL OR PICK ONE UP AT THE SNITE 



The Observer page 23
Tuesday, August 27,1991 


New coach takes reins at Saint Mary's 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
Julie Schroeder-Biek has returned to Saint Mary's to coach a volleyball team that she used to play on. 
Schroeder-Biek has been the assistant coach for the last two years at Saint Mary's. She in­herilc; a team that was ranked in the top ton of tho Division III statistics for kill average, assist average, and block average throughout last season. 
~As a former player at Saint Mary's, I know how good our program really is, and am ex­cited about tho opportunity to take over and to continue to 
Julie Schroeder·Biek 
build the program that former head coach, Sue Medley, devel­oped," said Schroedor-Biek. 
The Belles face a very competitive schedule, but return a strong team and also had a good recruiting year. There is a strong possibility that this team could receive a post­season bid. 
Returning for the Belles are two leaders on the team. Karen Lorton, a junior middle blocker from South Bend, led the team in kills, serve percentage, hit­ting, and assists last year. 
Michelle Martino is a sopho­more setter from Illinois who was ranked tenth in the nation in assists for Division III. 
Both players should be valu­able assets to the new coach as she takes over the helm. 
Agassi knocked out in straight sets at Open 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Finalist one year, first-round flop the next, Andre Agassi spun out of control and away from the U.S. Open, the victim of another stunning ambush. 
Aaron Krickstein, Agassi's tormenter on Monday, dis­played none of the power and little of the precision that Pete Sampras showed in beating Agassi for the championship last year and winning his first match this year. 
Sampras turned his blazing servos and pinpoint control this time in the direction of Christo van Hensburg to win 6-0, 6-3, 6-2. So overwhelming was Sampras at the start that the crowd roared when Rensburg raised his arms in triumph after finally winning the lOth game of the match. 
Krickstein didn't need to be that good against a player who self-destructed in the heat and glare of the stadium court. It was only the second match of the tournament, less than four hours had passed since the first ball was struck, and one of the glamorous names in the game suddenly was gone in straight sets, 7-5, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2. 
Krickstein's upset overshad­owed the usual verbal battle John McEnroe waged with an umpire during a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 victory over Glenn Layendecker and Michael Chang's easy 6-3, 6-0, 6-2 win against Mark Woodforde. Two other men's seeds lost: No. 13 Andrei Cherkasov 7-6 (7-2), 6-2, 6-2 to Jonas Svensson, and No. 15 Petr Korda 6-1, 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 to Arnaud Boetsch. 
The top women seeds also had little problem winning. No. 1 Steffi Graf beat Andrea Temesvari 6-1, 6-2 in 50 min­utes; No. 2 Monica Soles beat Nicole Arendt 6-2, 6-0; No. 3 Gabriela Sabatini beat Nicole Provis 7-6 (7-3), 6-3 and No. 7 Jennifer Capriati dumped Eva Pfaff 6-1, 6-0 in 39 minutes. 
Krickstein kept the ·ball deep in the first set and close enough to the sidelines to prevent Agassi from attacking. Agassi tried powering balls from the baseline, but his accuracy was off and he sprayed shots wide and deep. 
~Nothing seemed to be going my way," lamented Agassi, who wound up with 55 unforced er­rors and six double faults, compared to Krickstein's 28 unforced errors and one double fault. "He was hitting the lines and big winners. Sometimes it seems you have to overcome so much to get through it." 
The crowd that had cheered Agassi so much last year switched allegiance early and whistled for Krickstein as it sensed an upset in the making. 

The Observer/John Rock The Belles ranked among the leaders in NCAA Division Ill volleyball in kill percentage. 
Campus golf tournament to take place next weekend at Burke 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's golf teams are hosting the 1991 Fall University Championship Tournament. It is an open tournament that also serves as tryouts for anyone interested in joining the varsity golf teams. 
It will be a 72-hole, stroke play tournament for the men's student division, and a 36-hole stroke play tourney for the women. There is a five dollar entry fee, and entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
The dates for the men's draw are for Saturday, August 31st and Sunday, September 1st, with a cut after Sunday's play. The remaining golfers will play two rounds on Sunday, Septem­ber 8th for the championship. The women only play the first two days. 
There is an entry deadline of 
5:00 p.m. on' Wednesday, Au­gust 28th, and no late entries will be accepted. Students who perform exceptionally well will 
be contacted by the golf coach. 




TV and VCR RENTALS 
2 Semesters 

19" TV Rentals  $99.95  
13" TV Rentals  $69.95  
VCR  Rentals  $99.95  

FREE FAST DELIVERY 272-5959 



COLLEGIATE RENTALS 
...MICROWAVES, REFRIGERATORS, STEREOS... 


DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: 
(starting at) 

$45
2.5 CUBIC FEET 
for the school year

3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 
PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. 
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Attention 
Observer Sports Writers: Leave your new campus addresses and phone numbers in the Sports Department mailbox at the Observer by noon on Wednesday if you intend to write this year. Please include your top three choices for beat assignments. All editorial staff must attend a meeting at 6:00 p.m. Thursday, and should report to the Observer as early as possible. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rugby Football Club has practice every Monday thru Thursday at 4:15 p.m. at Stepan Field starting today. For anyone wishing to join the club, there will be an informational meeting at 5:30 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium next Monday, September 2, or just come to a practice. All are welcome. Pads not necessary. 

•Mandatory 
lacrosse meeting for anyone Interested in playing for the varsity squad Monday, September 2 at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Any questions, call Kevin Corrigan at 239-5108. 

•A 
meeting will be held for all new sports writers this Thursday at 6:00 p.m. on the third floor of LaFortune at the Observer. Anyone interested in writing is welcome to attend. 


Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Organizational meeting and Auditions 
7:00P.M. 
VVednesday,August28 VVashington Hall Mainstage 
All students interested in any aspect of theatrical production are encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. 
Auditions for The Crucible will follow the meeting. 


The Observer 
ewatc 


The Notre Dame women's cross country team will have a youthful appearance as practice opens on Monday. Joining seasoned veterans Amy Blaising, Diane Bradley, and Lisa Gorski will be a significant number of freshmen and Irish coach Tim Connelly is excited· about the season. 
"I am expecting the freshmen to come in and help us right away," said Connelly. The freshmen class includes Eva Flood, a runner from County Dublin, Ireland who placed sec­ond in the national juniors cross country race in her coun­try, Kala. Boulware, a three time state champion in South Carolina, and Sarah Riley, who won the California State Championship her junior year. 
Other freshmen who will con­tribute to the program this year 
SPORlS SHORTS 
include Becky Alfieri of Spencerport, NY, Stefanie Jensen of South Lake Tahoe, CA, Emily Husted of New Palastine, IN, and Polly Hassi of Phoenix, AZ. · 
Last year, the team, which is in its fifth year as a varsity program, won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and placed second in the National Catholic Meet to Boston College. 
Senior captain Amy Blaising will be a leader for the young squad. Blaising notched her personal best at the Indiana lntercollegiates with a time of 
18:48 last year. 
In addition to Blaising, senior Diana Bradley and junior Lisa Gorski will be other leaders for the young team. Bradley had a solid season and was the top Irish finisher against George­town while Gorski was the top Irish finisher at the MCC championships. 
•Senior David Dllucla won two medals in the tennis com­petition at the PanA.medcan· Games. reeen!lY:i99lliPleted in Havana, Cuba. ,;;:\i ··· · 
DiLucia earned the silver medal in men's singi;s, defeating a Cuban in the semifmals in three sets before falling to Mexico's Luis Herrera 6-3, 6-1. 
He combined with Pam Shriver to win the gold medal in mixed doubles, overcoming the Brazilian tandem of Claudia Chabalgoitu and N. Kyriakos 6-3, 4-6, 6-0 in the finals. 
Former Notre Dame fencer Molly Sullivan won her second Pan Am gold medal as a member of the winning Q,s, wo):tl,en's team. Sullivan was also part ofthe 1987 team thafwon the gold at 
Indianapolis. · · 
•Junior Tanya Williams qualified for the U.S. Olympic trials in two events at the recently completed RS. Senior National Swimming Championships held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
The All-American finished third in the 400 Individual medley in a time of 4:56.31 and fourth in the 100 backstroke in 1:03.96 to qualify for the trials to be held next summer. 
With her performanta at the Senior Nati9~~~· Williams. has moved into the top 10 among U.S. backstrokei-Sa:nd.is expected to be among the top 25 in the world when the. upcoming rankings are released. 
•Freshman Mike Iorio, one of three Irish high school All­American lacrosse recruits, has been named to the u~s. Under­19 National Team. Thl:l Chester, New Jersey na~ive Will compete at the World Games Mxt summer against teams from Australia, England, Canada, the Iriquois Nations, and.possibl)t Japan. 
"This is a great honor for a high school¢'tii"l N(}tre Dame lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan said. "It means tHat for his age group, he is one of the top five defensemen in. the country. We're excite~ for him, and we're also excited to have him coming here." 
•Frank Jacobs has been tearing up the New York-Penn League since signing with the New YorkMets. 6 ( •.• 
A seventh-round. pick in the June draft, ,Jaqobsreported.to Pittsfield, Massachu~t~ op June 10th. Sm<:~ · · fh~Jsleading the Class A team In home runs and RBI'$. In 6 es; Jacobs is hitting .239 with nine homers and 43 RBl's. garnering 57 hits in 238 at-bats and scoring 43 runs. 


Please. 
America is not your ashtray. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
News Writers 
To apply, or for further information, 
contact: 
Monica Yant 
at 239-5303 

Photo courtesy of NO Sports lnfonnation 

Senior captain Amy Blaising is one of only five upperclassmen on the Irish roster this season. She will be expected to provide leadership to a team w~h 13 freshmen. 


New coach directs NO volleyball in 1991 
By RENE FERRAN lineup because all the players "They've both had a good pre­Associate Sports Editor are so equal in their abilities." season," she said. "I believe At the crucial position of set­they'll see a lot of court time 
ter, however, Brown has found this season." 

Only three years ago, the 
a winner for the starting job: Both freshman are acclimat­Notre Dame volleyball team sophomore Janelle Karlan. ing to the college game with

posted a 19-12 record and 
"Janelle had done a great job, ease-but not without a littlemade its first-ever NCAA ap­

both in the spring and this fall," help.

pearance. After two con­
she said. "Our backup setters "The girls on the team havesecutive losing seasons and the are doing well, but they're a made it really easy to make thetumultuous resignation of Art few steps behind Janelle." transition," said Coates. "I like

Lambert, new head coach 
Two freshman join the Irish the atmosphere here, the close­Debbie Brown has the team this year, outside hitters Nicole ness of the entire community." 

pointed in that direction once Coates from Princeton, Illinois The transition period is al­again. 
and Peters, a native of Solana most over, however. Notre"She has such a good atti­Beach, California. Brown has Dame's season opener is nexttude," said freshman Christy been pleased so far with their Saturday at 7:30 p.m. versusPeters. "When she says some­progress. Purdue at the Joyce ACC.

thing to one of us, we trust in 
1991 Volleyball Schedule 
Aug. 30 Alumnae Game 7:30p.m. 31 Purdue 7:30p.m. 
Sept 6-7@ Big Four Classic. Louisville, Kentucky 6 vs. Kentucky 6:00p.m. 7@ Louisville 6:00 p.m. 
13-14@ SW Missouri State Invitational, Springfield, Missouri 
(Ohio State, SW Missouri State, Eastern Michigan) 22 Boston College 2:00 p.m. 24 Illinois State 7:30p.m. 27-28@ Miami (Ohio) Invitational, Oxford, Ohio 
[DePaul, Southern Illinois, Miami (Ohlo)l Oct. 3-4@ Stanford Invitational, Palo Alto, California 
(Stanford, New Pvlexlco, San Jose State) 18@ Buder 7:00p.m. 19@ Evansville 7:00p.m. 22@ Illinois 7:30p.m 25 Xavier 7:30p.m. 26 Dayton 4:00p.m. 27 Akron 2:00p.m. 30 Louisville 7:00p.m. 
Nov. 2@ Toledo 7:30p.m. 3 @ Bowling Green 4:00 p.m. 15-16@ MCC Championships, Indianapolis, Indiana 23 vs. San Francisco 1 :00 p.m. Hempstead, New York 24@ Hofstra 1 :00 p.m. 29@ Texas-Arlington 7:30p.m. 30@ Texas-Arlington 7:30 p.m. 

what she's telling us." 
Brown took over the program in December after resigning as an assistant coach with the U.S. national squad. Before that, she 
coached for six years at Arizona State, taking the Wildcats to the NCAAs in five of those seasons, and she antici­pates similar results with the Irish. 
"I definitely believe that we have the capability to make the NCAAs," Brown said. "We talked with the team about that being a goal that we would like to strive for, to put ourselves into position to make ~he tour­nament, and even though it's early, from what I've seen so far, I believe it's a realistic goal." 
Notre Dame's inexperience plagued it throughout the 1990 season, but with the team los­ing only three members from that 9-27 squad, Brown has veterans at every position to choose from. 
Four seniors, including two three-year monogram winners in outside hitter Christine Ch.oquette and all-purpose performer Katie Kavanaugh, provide a nucleus around which to build. 
"I am pleased with the depth • we have," she said. "It's going to be hard to pick a starting 
-506 .i. Mo1n St=South Bend, 1N 
_ Phone-268-2539 ·­Open 9:00 to 5:00 Do11 Mo~ _-50 
SAVE ON VOUR FURNITURE NEEDS FOR DORM OR APARTMENT SOFAS*LOVE SEATS*CHA I RS*DESKS*SHEL VES 


---· --~. 

Tuesday, August 27, 1991 The Observer page 25 

SMC soccer looks to build upon last year 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Cook, a senior from Ohio, was Sports Writer selected as the Most Valuable Player for the third consecutive 
As the Saint Mary's soccer year for her defensive play. team begins its second season Gilliland was the leading scorer in NCAA play, Belles coach Tom last season and is the penalty Van Meter is looking to this kick specialist. year's team to build on last Dalaso, a sophomore from year's successes. Colorado, is a second-year 
"I'd like to repeat the suc­starter and was the second cesses we've built the last cou­highest scorer on the team in ple of years. Our obvious goal is 1990. Crowley, a junior from a winning season, but ideally, Wisconsin, is one of the leading we'd like an NCAA post-season defensive players and is ex­bid," said Van Meter. pected to resume playing after 
knee surgery. Winget is also a 
Last year, the team was solid player with strong ball ranked sixth in the Great Lakes Leading the team are several handling skills. region and had Its strongest players, including Kelly Cook, "The upperclassmen have record (13-3-3) in the last six Greer Gilliland, Megen Dalaso, paid their dues and they de­years. The Belles defeated na­Kristin Crowley and Stacey serve to reap the rewards," said tionally ranked Division Ill Winget. Van Meter. 


It's not just anotherwayfor you
to spend your money. It's away to help you save it. 
Torn Van Meter 
teams such as Kalamazoo, Saint Mary's-Winona and Wooster College, as well as Division I Marquette. 
Now, get the Card and get Stu~ent Privileg~s. Special savmgs created JUSt for you. Only from American Express. 
If you think the American Express<~> Card is simply another way to buy things, we(i like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you sat•e. 
Become a Student Card member today, and you'll automatically get American Express<~> Student Pril'ileges,~ our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the 

3ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT A PRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Card members can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any· where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 
Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: Each certificate could saue you as much as $250 01 •er regular Continental Airlinesfares 011 a coast-to-coast trip. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES" OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERY MONTH FOR AYEAR 
also help you save on your long· For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional could sat•e more than $44 benefits of Cardmembership-like when you enroll and use the personal attention you can get the American EJtpress 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives. And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in 
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
a college budget. This year alone, Student Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. 
You'll find your certificates in each issue of our exclusive student magazine, American Express<~> Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today. 
A GOOD INVESTMENT, A GREAT VALUE 

change your current long· M'CJ 
distance company. 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 
Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the sauings you need on the things you u•ant-a sure way to make the most of 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All of which goes to show that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways for you to spend your money, there are few 
TRAVEL that help you save it. RELATED Apply today SERVICES 
•To be eligible. you must be approved by December 31, 1991 "A credit of up to H70 for calls will appear on each bilhng statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 is equal to the charges for a domestic 30·minule night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call 
and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for th1s service by December 31. 1991 
© 1991 Amencan Ex pres~ Tra\'el Related Service's Company, Inc 




Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 
.. 




page 26 The Observer 
Tuesday, August 27, 1991 





Women's soccer has high hopes 
Jenkins' injury only damper on Petrucelli's optimism 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Is three years enough time to build a playoff caliber pro­gram? 
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli hopes so. 
Building on last season's 16­3-1 performance and landing an NCAA berth are among the team's goals for the 1991 sea­son to begin September 7th at home against Mercyhurst. 
"We may be a year or two away, but it's definitely some­thing we're keeping in the back of our minds," Petrucelli said. "We have a very good group of returning players and a tal­ented group of freshmen, and I think we're looking forward to start playing some games and seeing how we stack up against other teams." 
Men 
continued from page 28 
Goalkeeping was also a prob­lem for the Irish last year, but one which they are confident of overcoming. 
"We weren't as solid as we would have liked to have been, but it's not the fault of particu­larly anyone," stated Berticelli. "Pete Gulli stepped into a start­ing role with no Division I ex­perience, and Matt Fitz was a walk-on. We really didn't have as much time to prepare as we'd have liked to have. We've got five goalkeepers working out in pre-season, and they're all showing very, very positive signs and being very competi­tive. Whoever starts will have to earn the spot." 
•MIDFIELD. The key to any successful season, Notre Dame must find more ways to pro­duce scoring opportunities. "We have to be a bit more cre­ative and skillful than we have been in the midfield," observed Berticelli. "We have lots of 
freshmen here, though, and one 

player-Mike Pahner of r------------,-----------­
South Bend-has had a great 
spring and tremendous pre­season. Palmer does a great job and he has a tremendous work ethic, so things look good for us." 
•ATTACK. Scoring opportu­nities were infrem1entlv trans-


Macleod 
continued from page 28 
"I'll put our schedule up against anybody's in the na­tion," said MacLeod. "We play the best teams in many confer­ences around the country. It makes for a good level of com-
vision exposure in five major • 
markets, (Philadelphia, New 
York, Los Angeles, Chicago, 
and Texas)." 
When asked about his deci­
'" 
sion to come to Notre Dame, he 
explains that this is a unique 
opportunity for any coach. 
"I love the atmosphere here," declared MacLeod. "There is great tradition here, and this is a great environment for college students. I believe we can become a basketball power­house. This will not happen overnight; it will be a slow process. 
"I never say 'x' number of wins, but we are going to work hardr have fun and learn to win." 

Chris Petrucelli 
With only two seniors lost from last year's MCC champi­ons, a strong nucleus returns to the program. The top five goal scorers from last season are back, including sophomores Alison Lester (15 goals) and Stephanie Porter (10) and se­nior Susie Zilvitis (10). Junior goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga 
(0.79 goals against average, 11 shutouts) also returns. 

An injury to junior defender Shannon Jenkins, however, threatens to dampen Petru­celli's optimism. Jenkins, a two­year starter in the Irish back­field, anchors the defense, and her probable replacement, freshman Jill Matesic, while showing promise in the fall, will not fill the void completely. 
"Shannon's had a knee prob­lem since April," Petrucelli said. "We were hoping she'd be back and ready to go by now, but she's still struggling with it. She's defmitely somebody we'll miss." 
In an attempt to bolster its NCAA chances, gone from the Notre Dame schedule are the likes of St. Joseph's, Indiana­South Bend, and Calvin College. In their place, the Irish travel to Vanderbilt, William & Mary, and Providence. 
"I think we're very positive heading into the season," Petrucelli said. 
lated into scores last season. "This job will probably fall to Kevin Pendergast (33 shots, 7 goals, 4 assists, 1 winner in 1990). He's had a very good pre-season. The rest of the scoring will probably come from our new players, or someone that did not score much last year will have to rise to the occasion." 
If it sounds like Notre Dame is hard at work on every facet of its game, it's because that is exactly the case. Berticelli will go to any lengths to reverse last season's unlucky rmish. 
"Last year, we lost seven games that we could have won just as easily," ruminated the second-year coach. "It wasn't a disastrous season, it was un­lucky. But I believe that you make your own luck, and we didn't make it at times like we should have. 
"I think about last season ev­ery day because I learned a lot from it. I learned that you can't always fix everything that's wrong with a team, and also that it takes time to fix any­thing. I guess that I was hum­bled by the game." 
1991 WOMEN'S SOCCER SCHEDULE . 
Sept. 7 Mercyhurst 10:00 a.m. 
10 @Dayton 4:00p.m. 
14@ Cincinnati 1:00 p.m. 
15 vs. Vanderbilt 1 :00 p.m.@ Cincinnati, Ohio 
20 Michigan State 4:00p.m. 
24 Siena Heights 7:00p.m. 
29 Wisconsin-Green Bay 1 :00 p.m. Oct. 2 Lewis 7:00 p.m. 
4 Southern Illinois-Edwardsville 7:00p.m. 
6@ Wisconsin-Milwaukee 1:00 p.m. 
11@ William & Mary 4:00p.m. 
13 @WAGS Tournament vs. Monmouth 10:30 a.m. 19@ Massachusetts 1:00 p.m. 22@ Providence 1:00 p.m. 25 Louisville 7:00p.m. 27 Xavier 1:00 p.m. 30 Wright State 6:00p.m. Nov. 2@ Central Florida 1 :00 p.m. 
3@ Florida International 11 :00 a.m. 


The Observer/John Rock 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team looks to return to the form that led to an appearance in the NCAA 
playoffs in 1988. 

WHilE YOU WERE VACATION-UN, lOOK WHAT AUDREY'S GONE AND DONE. 
SHE'S TURNED 


With love from your favorite Mom and Dad. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Day Editor 
For more information contact 
239-7471
Dannika 

petition and gives us good tele---::;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;._;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:~ 
• 20 -30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
• 
$5. 10 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, August 27th 4:00 -6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Mike Brach 239-7938 or Patty Studebaker 239-7241 

The Observer page 27 

MENU 
Notre Dame 
Baked Cajun Cod Chicken Homano Vineyard Vegetable with Cheese 
BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


\IE 'SP--'t'S \1.1r>.i IF '"£ PL~'\\~6 rl£.ll) W~'S l£1./t.l P--1-\D 'tit. \)\01{\ \{f\\1£ G\)1-\'). l't.Cl~ 
WO'Jl\) BE !'-lCli\\\~G 8\Ji C~T FOOD .1 TE\l_ \\\til \1-lP--I':, 1{0I ... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Venomous creatures 5 Domino or 
Waller 9 Money or Johnny 13 Mild fight or 
gaiter 14 Allen or Frome 16 Utah ski resort 17 Evening, in 
Paris 18 Make amends 19 Sprat's diet 20 Famous R.L.S. 
novel 23 Play part 24 Us, to Ovid 25 Fastener or 
unbranched antler 

28 Partner of vigor 31 Gallery or golf 
shot 34 Dowel or trifle 35 Big beasts, for 
short 38 Gambling game 40 "Yo-ho-ho, 
43 Armstrong or Diamond 44 Scottish fabric 45 Exclamation or command 46 Tar or condiment 48--Vegas, 
N.M. 49 Decorate 51 Consume or 
corrode 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

I 
5evet?AL OF ntE iJo"ltr-1 WOMIIN. you·ve DltlfD HeR£, 
86 fl FRESH A'N 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
TWO l(e,'( WO~DS 
Cl 1985 Un•versal Press 
K£PJ' COPliN"" 

! 
UP A67~11N 
flttP llhiJIN. 

French mammoth 



The bserver 
WEU, H,.,.., "-'6 DID
HIINK, YlJIJ'Vf. BIOEN

Ml»>K MA4-o'r'S OFfiC£t 
CHOSEN foR A loP­
tXTCNSI'IE RE.SEilFal

LAST SEME:5TER 
Sf CKE:T £11'£/tiMf:N f 
ON NIJhiE/?(JII:) fl11!'t£ 
CAND!OitTeS-WE

You WAtrrED ro IN CO·ED H~tN{f. 
PICKeD YDif ~~

S££ ME, Sin nus semes-re.t yovR 
IIFTE.R !NT'l:I(VIGWIN"
ROOMIIlftiE Wlt-L 

would like to welcome :all new students to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Join The Observer and become, a.part of the craziest organiz·ation on campus. Stop and visit our booth on Activities N·ight, September 3, or come up to our office on the 3 rd floor of LaFortune. 



Sports 
page 28 Tuesday, August 27, 1991 
Holtz faces tough decisions as off-season takes toll 
By DAVE DIETEMAN but how will the Irish adapt to already stacked depth .charts, Sports Editor the losses of tailback Dorsey but their absence is sure to Levens (transfer), quarterbacks leave armchair coaches across George Poorman at quarter­B.J. Hawkins and Jake the United States (and Europe, back? Kelchner (transfer; denied thanks to NBC's inter-continen­
While injuries and questions readmission from Holy Cross), tal telecasts) wondering what about the NBC contract, steroid fullbacks Walter Boyd and might have been. abuse and play selection har­Rusty Setzer (dismi-ssed for ried Lou Holtz and the rest of undisclosed reasons; withdrew Perhaps worst of all, the Fighting Irish coaching staff from team), lineman Winston Kelchner, whose attempt at throughout the 1990 season, Sandri (denied fifth year eligi­readmission was hampered by this 104th season of Notre bility), all-purpose man Raghib a driving-under-the-influence Dame football is fast approach­Ismail (early departure to the incident, had pushed Irish ing with new questions of its CFL) and freshmen Mike Miller, quarterback Rick Mirer to keep own. Huntley Bakich and Germaine his game at its best. The depar­
Holden (muscle p~lls)? ture of B.J. Hawkins led Holtz 
Will George "Boo" Williams to switch defensive back George return to anchor the defensive Of course, Williams, Sandri, Poorman to quarterback. While line? Linemen Troy Ridgely and and Kelchner were. only possi­Poorman gives Notre Dame a
..
_ 
Todd Stoker may return soon, ble additions to Notre Dame's more experienced backup, sophomore Kevin McDougal and freshman Paul Failla are also capable signal-callers. 
All in all, lists of departures and disciplinary casualties should not obscure the im­mense wealth of talent which the Irish will throw at their ri­vals from September until January. 
On defense, linebacker Demetrius DuBose and backs 
The Observer/John Rock Greg Lane and Rod Smith With senior Rodney Culver's move to tailback, sophomore Jerome promise to punish opposing of­Bettis moves to the top of the depth chart at fullback for the Irish. fenses. Meanwhile, Mirer, tight end Derek Brown, offensive linemen Gene McGuire, Justin 
Macleod eager to head 

Hall and Mirko Jurkovic, as well as captain Rodney Culver, 

out on recruiting trail 

Jerome Bettis and the Brooks Brothers (Tony and Reggie) in By ANTHONY KING the backfield hope to give simi­Assistant Sports Editor lar workouts to the same teams' defenses. It may be early to be talking about the NCAA tourney, March Culver finds himself in the Madness, and Irish basketball, not-so-common position of be­but for first-year coach John ing the sole captain-the first MacLeod there is plenty to talk solitary captain since 1986-on about and do in preparation for a team where numerous in­the upcoming season. dividuals were voted for. In fact, MacLeod is now in the pro­the voting for captain had to be cess of recruiting, a task that he 
John Macleod 

re-conducted several times has not had since _his days at 
at Oklahoma, and the basket­because of votes cast for Oklahoma. 
ball got much better for the
players no longer on the Irish "I went to the Nike camp fans and the athletes. But the
roster. which had 125 high school changes have made the gameplayers," said MacLeod. "It was more like the pro game."
very overwhelming." 

Getting his team to practice
Men's soccer hopes to rebound from '90 
But, according to MacLeod it together and play as a team isis a skill he has not lost, and a 

By DAVE DIETEMAN even on our background," ex­games over the last two years. MacLeod's goal for the upcom­
job that he enjoys.

Sports Editor plained Berticelli. "We just re­Meyer, on the other hand, tied ing year. 
"Recruiting is selling, and acruited people by saying that for the Irish lead in goals last 

"The team's that are suc­
coach doesn't ever really losewe are building a program. We year (seven; winner vs. Ohio

Although several thousand cessful are the teams that work
State) and notched one assist his selling ability," explainedmen and women will spend the recruited with the Notre Dame 
a remarked 
next week sorting out their tradition of success, and with while frring 29 shots. MacLeod. "It's an easy job be­as team," 
MacLeod. "If you look at the new homes, one man will be promises that soccer will be a "The fact that our upper­cause we have such a great uni­
teams like the Lakers, their
spending his time very part of that Notre Dame tradi­classmen have shown tremen­versity to sell. I want to get the teamwork is what made them
differently. tion. dous attitude and that we've kids who really want to come to Notre Dame soccer coach "We've got a thick pile of gotten frrm leadership from our Notre Dame. If they don't want the best. Their individual
• Mike Berticelli, on the brink of press clippings right now, but I captains. The frrst three days of to be here I don't want them." recognition came from their his second season with the think that it will turn into re­pre-season have been exciting, According to MacLeod, re­success as a team. I want to Irish, will be busy evaluating a sults on the field because these and it's exciting to think of the establish the importance of
cruiting is one of the major

bumper crop of freshmen and kids are intense, competitive possibilities." team play and have an
changes he is undergoing from 

eleven returning lettermen. athletes. They're gonna bring a The other returning unselfish team." 
the shift from pro basketball.

"I'm extremely pleased with lot of excitement to the pro­starters-midfielder Brendon 
He frrst must adjust from a 95­

our recruiting class," said Ber­gram. You have to be realistic, Dillman, goalie Peter Gulli, Irish fans can look forward to
game to a 30-game schedule. 

ticelli, who is coming off the though, and see that we're not forward Kevin Pendergast, de­a a fast pace this year. MacLeod frrst losing season in his fifteen gonna be the best in the nation, fender Pat Sullivan, and "There will be lot less 
wants to speed up the Irish 
years of coaching. "For our but we'll be very, very competi­sweeper Mario Tricoci-and games and a lot more practice offense, but don't expect to seefrrst year of recruiting, I'm ex­tive with anybody we play." lettermen hope to create a win­time," stated MacLeod. "But a Loyola Marymount run-and­tremely pleased with the Yet the vast pool of freshman ning chemistry in Berticelli's that is good, because we need gun show in the Joyce ACC this
quality of players." talent will not be the sole driv­second season. the time to develop and grow." And well he should be. ing force behind the Irish push Still, Notre Dame stands in The college game has under­year. Not only can the Irish depth for success. need of work in several areas, "I want to speed up the
gone a few changes since 

charts boast of two Parade most notably: tempo, I want high percentage
MacLeod last coached at 

Magazine High School All­Co-captains Brett Hofmann •DEFENSE. The Irish need to shots along with a strong de­
Oklahoma. MacLeod believes,

Americans (goalkeeper Bert and Kenyon Meyer will bolster tighten up the unit that surren­fens.e, but I don't want bad
• however, that his professional
Bader and midfielder Jason the defense and offense respec­dered 32 goals last season. "We shots put up." explained
experience should directly

Fox), but they can also show­tively for Berticelli, whose team just have to be more intense on MacLeod.
apply to the collegiate level. 

case two of Gatorade's Top finished 4-11-3 overall and 2-the defensive third of the field," 
Notre Dame's usual tough

Eight High School players in 6-1 in the Midwestern analyzed Berticelli. "We really "With the establishment of schedule is a plus according toaddition to numerous players Collegiate Conference last have to play out of the back the three-point shot and the 45­MacLeod. It will test the Irishwith United States National season. better than we did last year, second clock, the college game every game, and force them toTeam experience. Hofmann, who received no but we have the players to do has changed for the better," play at their best.
"This recruiting class wasn't playing time as a freshman, is that." said MacLeod. "We had a 30­based on our reputation as a a consistent defensive second shot clock they tried out 
see MACLEOD I page
program or as recruiters, or performer has started 37 of 38 see MEN I page 26 for a couple years while I was 













