
1121992 SESQUICE Nff NNIAl 

VOL. XXIV NO. 67 
~!,~~~t 
8&
---~1--
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 

FRIDAY , DECEMBER 6, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



SMC officers vote to extend parietals 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Visitation hours at Saint 
Mary's will change at the start 
of the spring semester, though 
the changes are not as exten
sive as the submitted proposal 
recommended. 
The senior officers made the 
decision after reviewing a pro
posal submitted by the Resi
dence Hall Association (RHA) to 
change the existing hours. 
Visitation hours will begin at 
10 a.m. each day and end at 
midnight Sunday through 
Thursday, and at 2 a.m. Friday 
and Saturday. 
Senior officers emphasized in 
their approval of the change 
that all other regulations re
garding male visitation will re
main the same. Male guests 
must still leave a photo ID at 
the front desks of the residence 
halls, be escorted at all times 
and will not be permitted in the 
tunnels. 
Students on floors or sections 
within each residence hall will 
be permitted to vote to limit the 
visitation hours within their 
sections if they choose to do so, 
but may not vote to lengthen 
the newly approved hours. 
"I am very happy that the officers took the proposal into serious consideration and granted some of the requested changes," said Karen Fordham, chairwoman of the RHA parietal committee. 
"The students have expressed their wishes and proceeded in a responsible manner to elicit the views of the entire student body," said College President William Hickey in response to the change. "The administration views this as a positive change and an opportunity for students to assume greater responsibility for their daily lives." 
Ellen McQuillan, president of RHA, was encouraged by the administration's action on the proposal. "This demonstrates that the administration is willing to listen to and work with the students to implement change when the student body presents concerns in a reasonable manner." 
A number of issues that will be affected by the change-such as handicapped accessibility in Holy Cross and LeMans Halls and staff access in certain areas-still need to be addressed before the change is implemented at the start of the semester. 
Doors to the residence halls will also continue to be monitored for security reasons. 
"The change does not compromise the safety of students or the security of the campus," Hickey said. 

Student Body President Maureen Lowry said she is pleased with the announcement. "I think it will really be beneficial for a lot of students and will alleviate a lot of problems with Notre Dame students that take classes during the day and with parents who come up on the weekends." 
The change of visitation hours marks the first victory for RHA, which has been working to reform parietals since the founding of the organization at the beginning of this academic 
~ 
year. 
'1
"RHA is really happy about l the change, and is looking into making other changes in the future," Fordham said. "This is just a start in our working to make campus life better." 
"As a college, we will continue to review residence life issues and to consider any new programs that benefit the students and the College," Hickey added. 

l 
f 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
t' 
v News Writer 
~ 
ijuman rights, peace and de

! velopment go hand and hand, 
r according to Father Theodore 
r Hesburgh, University presidentemeritus.
' That's why he is looking forward to fulfilling his position as a member of the board of directors of the United States Institute of Peace. Nominated by President Bush, Hesburgh was confirmed by the U.S. Senate and sworn in on Nov. 21. The Institute, created by Congress in 1984, seeks to promote peace throughout in the world in six ways. "We provide grants to people who are trying to come up with imaginative solutions in the (search) for peace," Hesburgh said. It also provides fellowships and promotes research and studies regarding peace. The committee is also working to establish a peace library in Washington, D.C. He said, "We are trying to make it the largest in the world." Hesburgh also said, "We deal 

Father Theodore Hesburgh 
with religion, ethics and human rights which are at the heart of peace." 
The most important task for the Institute is educating the public about the issue of peace, according to Hesburgh. "We need more education on peace in this country." 
To promote an understanding of peace, the Institute provides training, special publications and marketing on the subject, as well as public affairs and information. 
He said it is important for people to work for justice by providing opportunities for those are suffering. "The problem is (the) constant pressure of injustice which constantly leads to violence which is war." 

Twenty percent of the world's 

population does not have access 
to things such as health care, 
housing and education which 
most Americans and Europeans 
take for granted, said 
Hesburgh. We have to provide 
such "goodies" for all people, 
he says because ..unless we 
provide hope for everybody 
there can't be peace." 
Citizens should act locally to have an impact, he said. "Think globally, but act locally. If you go at it that way you can make a dent in the world." He said he is proud that two-thirds of the students at Notre Dame do volunteer work because it will encourage them to continue volunteering upon graduation. 
"It (volunteering) gets in their bloodstream and they are then going to make a difference because they will think of people who don't have the advantages we have." 
Hesburgh said peace will come only when everyone provides opportunities in their communities...Justice is possi
see HESBURGH/page 8 

Machines to go as St. Michael's returns 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assjstant News Editor . 
Washington Hall will loseits 
cnin~operated laundry ma
chines next semester when St. 
Michael's Laundry reopens for 
business. 
The space taken by the 
washers and dryers "needs to 
go backto its original purpose 
e>f academic use,"' according 
to James Lyphout, associate 
vice president for Business 
Affairs. 
Laundry machines were put in Washington, Flanner and . Grace Halls and after St. Micbael"s burned down in 
Nnvember.l989. 
These machines were ln 
stalled as ~a temporary mea
sure," until the laundry 
service reopened. he said. 
Lyphout said he believes 
that many of tbe studentS will 
use the laundry service, "St. 
Michaers was wellused and 
we1lliked ... he said...There 
will be a lot ofinterest... 

However, the removal of the machines is not intended to force stp.dents to use St. Michaers.J..yphout said. 
Many residents of Zahm Hall will be.inconvenienced by the loss of the machines. 
. according to Father Thomas King. rector...Many of them had gottenused to using th~ machines~" be said. 
There are no plans to remove the laundry machines from Flanner or Grace. 
Father Gerald Lardner, 

Grace Hall rector, said that .the re-opening ofSt. Michael's will actually improve the situation in his dorm. ..The number of washing machines  available did not match up to the capacity of the hall,.. causing many backups. be said. 
St. Micbaers will open for business Jan. 20, 1992. ac~ cording to Assistant Director James Riordan. Contracts for the laundry service are ...steadily coming in... he said. 

Friday, December 6, 1991
page 2 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 





























Partly sunny and warmer today, highs 
How do we 
near 35. Sunny and mild Saturday, highs near 40s.
make the 
TEMPERATURES:
captors pay? 
City H L Athens 61 39 Atlanta 49 26 Berlin 37 28 
After over six and a half------
years in captivity, 
Boston 28 19 
American Terry Anderson 
Calgary 41 05 Chicago 33 06
was finally freed on 
Dallas-Ft.Worth 63 37
Thursday. 
Denver 47 27 Honolulu 84 73 Houston 65 35 
His captors, the terrorist 
group Islamic Jihad, 
ndianapolis 41 14 
released Anderson with a 
london 46 43 los Angeles 73 53
statement saying that the John O'Brien 
Miami Beach 74 57
kidnappings made the Ed' 
New Orleans 57 32 
world listen to the voice of Accent itor 
New York 33 24 Paris 41 37
oppressed peoples and 
PMadelphia 33 24
unmasked the "ugly American and Israeli 
Rome 54 34 San Diego 66 53
faces," according to the Chicago Tribune. 
San Francisco 64 45
Whether they really accomplished this or not 
Seattle 52 46 
South Bend 36 08 Tokyo 57 50 
is not the point. The point is they held innoc~nt 
people, none of whom were military or intelli
Washington, D.C. 31 21 
gence personnel, against their will for periods 
PffiSSUre 
as long as Anderson's. 

H L ~~m ~EZ1a
During their captivity, the hostages were 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
beaten, kicked and taunted. Anderson himself was chained to a bed and blindfolded for much of his six and a half years. The terrorists even killed three of their American hostages. 


Now that all of the American hostages are 

TODAY AT AGLANCE
freed, the question is, what do we do about it? How do we make the cowards who took them pay? 

WORLD CAMPUS 
Most people's frrst reaction, including mine, is to find those responsible and take them 

Gorbachev requests food assistance fA urges partjcjpatjon jn blackout 
hostage. They could be chained to a bed in a 

 MOSCOW -President Mikhail dark room and blindfolded. We could kick 
Gorbachev appealed urgently to outlying them in the head and give them permanent 
Russian regions and other republics on neurological damage, like they did to hostage 
Thursday night to help Moscow stave ofT Alann Steen. 
critical shortages of food, saying Moscow But that would be a little reactionary. We, of 
should be given priority in Soviet food course, are not cowardly terrorists. The nest 
imports. liornachev, who looked tired on way to handle the situation would be to go to the Middle East and find the thugs who did the 
the capital's nine million people faced a food crisis within beating, kicking and taunting. 
two weeks as winter arrives and the Russian republic Then, we would bring them back to the U.S., 
prepares to lift price controls. "Moscow is in a hard, and give them a fair trial. If they are indeed 
critical situation regarding food," he said. "The capital guilty, they would be sent to a maximum
needs urgent help." He discussed the food problem security prison with the meanest, ugliest, most 
Thursday with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, although ornery criminals we can find. 
details of their talks were not made public. 
Once in jail, they'd find out that "Islamic Jihad" doesn't mean as much to American criminals as does, say, "Latin Kings" or 


OF INTEREST
"Disciples." They'd be put in a cell with an affectionate roomie named "Bubba" who the feast of the Immaculate Conception, Satutday, and thewould do to them, literally, exactly what they 

 Students for Environmental Action are spon
feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Dec. 12. Slides of the did, figuratively, to the hostages. 
soring a snow sculpture contest at the South Quad flag
cloak of Juan Diego, who claimed to see a vision of the Welcome to America. Ouch. 
pole at 4 p.m. 

Blessed Mother, will be presented at 7 p.m. Dec. 9 in theBut soon they'd learn that America isn't that Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
bad at all. Our jails have weight rooms, 

 The Graduate Student Union international potluck 
libraries and cafeterias. No chaining you to 

dinner will be held today at 5 p.m. before the GSU party 
 A conversation with Father Richard McCormick
beds, here, Mr. Terrorist, us infidels know how 

at Wilson Commons. For more information, contact Tony 
will be held at Keenan Hall on Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Theto treat our thugs.They could marvel about Hazbun at 239-8412. topics will be "Dignity and Dying; Suicide by Prescription; 
how we actually incarcerate only guilty 
Christian sexuality." 
people, and even then we treat them better 

 The Philippine Club Christmas dinner will be 
than we do most of our poor. They might even tonight at Siegfried Hall Dining Room at 7:30p.m. 

 Shenanigans Christmas Concert will be pre
fmd jail a pleasant experience. 

sented Sunday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission isThen we'll release them out into the streets 
 ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will host a comfree and tickets are available at LaFortune Informationwith a new perspective on America. No longer 
petition Saturday from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. 
Desk.
they see us as "The Great Satan." They'll be 

to midnight at the South Dining Hall. Admission for all is 
honest, law-abiding citizens who own 7-ll's free for the afternoon competition.  Two student directed plays, "Bits and Pieces" andand grocery stores. Each night they will put "The Good and Faithful Servant," will be presented attheir kids to bed, pet their dogs and jump into 

 Christmas cartoons for children of faculty Saint Mary's College Sunday at 2 p.m. and Monday at 7:30 bed with their Jewish wives (they'd have a new members will be shown on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Montp.m. in the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall. Both perforperspective on Israel, too.) 
gomery Theater in LaFortune. A reception will immedimances are free.
And just when they are the most happy and 

ately follow the two cartoons. Call Meg Creedon at 277
content, Alann Steen, Terry Anderson, Joseph 3670 or Henry Mark at 277-5195 with questions.  The St. Joseph County CASA Program will beCicippio and the rest of the ex-hostages will conducting training for new volunteers beginning Jan. 13burst into their homes, drag them away at 

 The "Not So Royal Shakespeare Company" will through Feb. 15. A Court Appointed Special Advocategunpoint and chain them blindfolded to a bed perform Shakespeare's comedy ..A Midsummer Night's (CASA) is a trained, community volunteer appointed bysomewhere. There they'll spend the rest of Dream" in Theodore's tonight and Saturday night at 8 the court to advocate for the best interest of a child who istheir lives being kicked, beaten and taunted. 
p.m. the subject of judicial action under the Indiana JuvenileOnly then will the payback be complete. 
Code as abused and/or neglected. For more information
These views are those of the author and not 

 The Tribute to Our Blessed Mother series honor please call Gloria or Barb at 284-9231.
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Accent 


MARKET UPDATE ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY News John O'Brien 





!On December 6:
Kelley Tuthill Lab Tech Monica Yant Andrew McCloskey 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ December 5 

eln 1917: Finland gains its independence. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
eln 1921 : Dominion status was given to Ireland.
Sports Production 

165.66 million 208.96 ~ 1.17 

e1 n 1926: Claude Monet died at the age of 86 
Dave Dieteman Jay Colucci 

~...._....___::s&J COMPOSITE 
Dave McMahon Lisa Eaton 
380.70 .. .89 

eln 1957: U.S. test satellite Vanguard blows up two seconds after

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
firing.
VIewpoint Systems 
2,889.09 J .. 22.58 

eln 1973: Gerald Ford was sworn in as vice president.
Joe Moody Harry Zimbillas 
PRECIOUS METALS 


eln 1976: Pardons Board votes to uphold Gary Gilmore's death GOLD -6-$ 2.30 to $367 .40/oz. 
sentence.
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER \>-2.2 to $4.026/oz.
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

------~-------------------------------------------------------:----~-----~-
Friday, December 6, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Speakers share their ethnic Christmas traditions 
By TONY POPANZ 
News Writer 
As part of "Christmas Around 
the World," several speakers 
from the University community 
talked about the holiday tradi
tions of their respective ethnic 
background during a fireside 
chat Thursday. 
The speakers included: Manuel Mujar from Latin America, Christophe Kougniazonde from Benin in western Africa, Maria Santos from the Philippines, and Professor Ramzi Bualuan from Lebanon. 
"Since Latin America is very Catholic, most of their Christmas festivities are centered around Catholicism," Mujar said as he began the program. 
In Latin America, the nine days before Christmas are spent in prayer and preparation for the holidays, he said. On Christmas Eve, there is usually a dinner at the home of one's grandparents. 
"Christmas relates to the families mostly," Mujar said. "The particular family determines the type of Christmas tradition it has." 
At midnight, many people go to La Misa del Gallo, or the Mass of the rooster. From Christmas Eve until the end of Mass, young people remain with the family and partake in the traditions, he said. 
After Mass, "the young go to party, and have a great time." 
Although the children in Latin America may believe in Santa Claus, they remain thoughtful of El Nino de Dios, or the Son of God, throughout the holiday. A nativity scene usually accompanies the Christmas tree, he 
00 0

);<'~9.' o"r ~ ...   . ,. 0 0 -.0 ' : ::<贩:New.re1~s  and~ -  ~ 
JavOrites 1oi

0 ..._.' ;... :.' .. . . . '.. . ..
' 
0


Jev~enr-bOdy. on YC)l# ~t!  
 '  , r .. ;' :. .. . :~  -~ ;, :  ..  0 
: ;?-?:r0 ,_0~ :~~~0:_ :.>, :~1::t ,:!.:-~ <... !
.. 
..:::. 

贩-~,~;~: Fr.ee;giitwr.qpp~go 
,';~o(:....~;>o~r:: .~. :: 0 ~:~~~;;~rife~t 
0 

 ': .... '. 0 _;:' , 
gut ce~#icc~te~ . 

1 : . . ' ' . . '  . 
. \ ...
<_.~. 贩 .. . ~. We'nsencf 
0 
 :   
~oUro.gift ~yWher.e!' 
-.. ~.  : .. "". ; . . 
 \, 0 


The Observer!Eiisa Klosterman Senior Rich Saldana, junior Maria Santos and graduate student Christophe Kougniazonde (left to right) share lunch and discuss the differences in Christmas traditions in a fireside chat Thursday as part of "Christmas Around the World." Participants from Latin America, Africa, the Philippines and Lebanon shared personal experiences of Christmas in the event sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. 
added. 
Kougniazonde, president of the African Student Association, told of Christmas tradition in his homeland of Benin, Africa. He said that in his country American Christmas traditions are uncommon. 
Approximately 40 percent of the population of Benin is Christian, while 60 percent is Voodoo, he said. "Even nonbelievers can join Christians in the celebration of Christmas. In Mass, non-Christian children behave as if they were baptized Christians," Kougniazonde explained. 
His people traditionally plant palm branches into the ground, sticking half of a papaya into the branches, wrapping them 
. .. . . 
... . . ,,. 
:-.  ..翻
, .... ; ,
' 
.. 
~. .. ' ' ' . . 
. '0 0:'00 . 0 -~:._ot~:: 0.:  0 ::_ >,,0; : . .0' . 


~Ve help you find bool,s you '//love. 
Address Hours Phone 
.\ n~m~r of th<: l.tttlc Prufa\Of r~mll\ uf l~..:.alh. -41\ro'I'IC!d bouk<rOCOr('~ 

Ironwood Plaza North  Telephone (219) 277-4488  
(near the new Martin's)  Hours: Mon.-Sat: 10:00-9:00  
Highway 23 at Ironwood  Sunday: 10:00-5:00  


with oil and cotton, then lighting them. The branches serve as lights running from the house to the street, and from the street to the church, he said. 
On the altar there is a nativity scene, and midnight Mass is celebrated from 10 p.m. through 1 a.m., Kougniazonde said. 
After Mass, and throughout Christmas day, there is a lot of noise-making, he said. "Christmas is stressed as a festivity for children. Children celebrate, play drums and dance," he said. 
Kougniazonde said children in Benin believe in a magical Father Christmas, who only grants favors to those who behave themselves. Father Christmas allegedly comes down from Heaven, leaves gifts and disappears. 
Father Christmas is never seen, and no pictures or renditions have ever been contrived, he added. 
Santos, a junior, from the Philippines said a Filipino Christmas is family-oriented. 
The majority of citizens are Roman Catholic so Christmas is widely celebrated, she said. 
She said that one important Christmas tradition is placing floating lamps or candles into the streams so that they travel downstream toward Mass. 
For gifts, the Filipino urbanites shop and buy gifts, while the rural people frequently 

make things at home, said San
tos. Many cards and messages 
are exchanged, she continued. 
Because of the absence of 

pine trees in the Philippines, 
people create their own Christ
mas trees. "Some make decora
tions, such as coconuts stacked 
in pyramids wrapped with 
lights, and others make good 
use of palm tree branches," 
Santos said. 
Bualuan, a professor in the 

management department and 
co-advisor of the Multicultural 
Executive Council, recounted 
the Christmas tradition of Le
banon. 
"Lebanon is the only Arab country in which Christmas is celebrated nationally," said Bualuan. "Fifty percent of the population is made up of Christians." 
He said that since the national tree is the cedar, which symbolizes pride, it is a sacrilege to decorate one as a Christmas tree. Instead, there are other less esteemed trees used for decorations. 
Traditionally, there is a midnight Mass and Christmas day dinner and, said Bualuan. Children usually ski throughout the Christmas season, although they reunite with the family on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. 
Today, from noon to 1 p.m., a final "Fireside Chat" will be held at the ISO Lounge on the second floor of LaFortune. The Christmas traditions of Native Americans, Hispanic-American Posadas, and people from Uganda, Africa. 
The fireside chats are sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. 
ND graduates head top small companies 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame graduates are chief executive officers of four of Forbes magazine's "200 Best Small Companies in America." 
Notre Dame is tied with the University of Pennsylvania, Ohio State University and Northwestern University for second in graduate representation on the list. Harvard University ranks first with 11 graduates in chief executive positions at leading small companies. 
Tied for third on the survey with three are Stanford University, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Illinois and Yale University. 
The Notre Dame alumni are: 

Edward 
Arnold, Arnold Industries of Lebanon, Pa., 1961 graduate. 

David 
Wetmore, Goal Systems of Columbus, Ohio, ~ 1970 graduate. '1 

Robert 
McGrath, McGrath '1 RentCorp of San Lorenzo, Calif., 1955 graduate. 

 
Louis Neeb, Spaghetti Warehouse of Garland, Texas, 1961 graduate. 



Calll-800-854-1234 
for your FREE ... 30th Anniversary 贩 Official Spring 
a Break 1992 Guide! 
14 

'"'!i# DESTINATION DAYTONA! 
Convention &Visitor's Bureau P.O. fux910 Daytona Beach, R 32115 



The Observer 

page 4 Friday, December 6, 1991 

Skinner to serve as chief of staff 
in January. 
omy is "sluggish at best," Bush announced that he was speeding up $9.7 billion in various . government payments and benefits to help "get this country 
back on its feet." 
Bush said the Democraticcontrolled Congress has ignored his economic proposals for "three straight years" and that he would make new recommendations in 1992. He vowed to take them directly to the voters "over the heads" of Congress. 
 Bush's political team as well as his new chief of staff, Skinner, and the old, Sununu, were crowded into the White House briefing room as he made his announcement. 
In Skinner, Bush picked a 

long-time political supporter 
and a former federal prosecutor 
to replace the abrasive Sununu, 
who resigned on Tuesday after 
months of controversy. 
Skinner has been tapped be

fore to help Bush in troubled 
times. 
He took charge of the admin

istration's response to the 
Exxon Valdez oil spill and the 
San Francisco earthquake, and 
most recently helped win a 
compromise with Congress on a 
$151 billion transportation bill. 
For his re-election campaign, Bush named Commerce Secre-
Samuel K. Skinner 
Transportation seaetary Skinner was tapped by President Bush Thursday to be his new chief of staff. 


AGE: 53 
HOMETOWN: Chicago 
EDUCATION: B.S., University 
of Illinois, 1960; J.D., DePaul 
University, 1966 
PERSONAL: Wife Mary Jacobs Skinner, a lawyer; 3 children 
RESUME: 
1991 Named Bush's chief of 

staff two days after John Sununu fesigned 
1988 Picked by Bush to be the 
1Oth secretary of transportation 1984-88 Chairman, Regional Transportation Authority 
1977-79 Attorney with Chicago law firm of Sidley &Austin 1975-77 U.S. Attorney 1968-75 Assistant U.S. Attorney, Northern District of Illinois, Chicago 
1961-68 Service at IBM 
AP 
tary Robert Mosbacher as general chairman, pollster Robert Teeter as campaign chairman charged with plotting strategy, and businessman Fred Malek as campaign manager responsible for the nuts and bolts operation of the re-election drive. 
Bush's poll ratings have fallen sharply in recent months as the economy has weakened including Thursday's report of a sharp rise in jobless claims and he has been buffeted by criticism from Republicans as well as Democrats for appearing indecisive on domestic issues. 
In addition, former Ku Klux Klan official David Duke announced plans on Wednesday to run in Republican primaries against Bush. Conservative commentator Patrick Buchanan also is expected to announce plans to challenge Bush's reelection bid. 
Bush said he doesn't think he has a "major problem" with conservatives. 贩1 consider myself conservative," he said. 
The president took a strong swipe at Duke, who won a majority of the white vote in a Louisiana gubernatorial election, despite a losing effort. "I condemn bigotry and I condemn racism. And this man is a racist and he is a bigot," the president said. 
Bush said Skinner, as chief of staff, would coordinate activities between the White House and re-election campaign, and would do an "outstanding job for me and the country." 
"Sam Skinner takes over as a firm right hand at a time when the nation's economy represents a difficult challenge," Bush said. 
"Yes, people are out of work and we need to get this country back on its feet," the president said. 
Bush was asked if he could be re-elected by asking the voters the same question posed by Ronald Reagan in 1980 -"Are you better off than you were four years ago?" The president 

--------------------------------------, 
A11 It' rica11 
Hcd Cross

Learn CPR. 




cited "world peace," and other events, and said he expected the economy would improve next year. 
Bush has long supported a cut in the capital gains tax, and the Congress has refused to enact it. Democrats say that would largely benefit the wealthy, and have countered with proposals for income tax cuts for the middle class. 
Also tapped for key campaign roles were Mary Matalin, chief of staff of the Republican National Committee, who will join the campaign full-time as a senior official. GOP consultant Charles Black was tapped as a senior adviser. 
Bush did not name Cabinet replacements for Skinner or Mosbacher. 
Bush showed no interest in going over the events that led to Sununu's demise -the use of government planes for personal trips and his abrasive manner in dealing with members of Congress among them. Instead, he complimented his top aide for the way he handled his own departure. 
Republican strategists said Bush wanted to erase doubts about his leadership and dispel the appearance of turmoil in the White House after a series of blunders on the economy and civil rights. 
Bush on Wednesday sought recommendations on a new chief of staff from a wide array of friends and political advisers. "Every political adviser you can name, he's talked to," presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. 
After struggling to keep his job, Sununu in his letter of res-

COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
[.f[({IJ/V11l!V:h $(Jil(JJ()U$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully located on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1671 Riverside Drive 
233-2212 

Special Sneak Preview 
THE
P RINCE 
OFT!DE~ 

ignation Tuesday acknowledged that he was a liability to the president. He agreed to step down on Dec. 15 and to leave the White House by March 1 after a face-saving stint as counselor to the president. 
In conservative circles, there was some uneasiness about Skinner, a pragmatist muclt like Bush. 贩some of the president's more conservative allies who were restless are a bit more restless today," said Mitch Daniels, former White House political director on Thursday. 
Daniels also said the next chief of staff -at least in the months to come -likely will not have as much clout as Sununu. 
MY GIRL 

A family film. (ffi] 
DAU.Y ..... ,.,..9IU IIA'I'/IUN Ud............. 'IGe 


The Observer

Frida~ DecemberS, 1991 page 5 

Panelists: Individuals must protect planet 
By AMY SANTANGELO to environmental action. The News Writer activities have been designed for adults and children in the 
Individuals can make a difcommunity. ference in the world environDuda agreed that personal ment by participating at the lo~ involvement is imperative in cal level, according to a panel of curbing future harms to the enarea environmentalists. vironment, claiming "the solu
"Think Global, Act Local" was tion to pollution is personal and the topic of Thursday's panel it is up to each and every one of discussion organized by Stuus to solve it." dents for Environmental Action as part of their environmental She said one of her objectives week activities. when she became a member of  
Mark Anderlik, a member of the Council four years ago was the environmental group The to adopt city legislation banning Greens; Loretta Duda, a memleaf burning because of the ber of South Bend's Common numerous health and enviCouncil; and Diana Mendelsohn, ronmental hazards it causes. member of the Earth Day ProThe legislation, which took ject, made up the panel. They two years to be put into effect, discussed various ways citizens is now progressing into other can get involved with protecting areas of Indiana and other the surroundings for future states, Duda said. The alternagenerations. tive to leaf burning in South are not being recycled. "Only biodegradable, he said, and at 
"It is important to educate ciBend is curbside pick-up of the one-fifth of one percent of the current rate of use, Ameritizens ... and is up to everyone leaves during a specified time printed paper is recycled and cans can expect to see 75 billion 
to get involved in environmental period in the fall, she said. the largest fraction of waste pounds of plastic in our landfills issues," according to MendelThese leaves are then used for currently in landfills is paper," by the year 2000. sohn. As part of this involvecompost. Anderlik said. Anderlik offered three possi
ment the Earth Day group has Anderlik spoke on recycling He also discussed plastics and ble ways to stop the further deplanned activities for April to and its benefits. He said that argued agsinst their manustruction of the environment. stir members of the communitv too often, recyclable products facture. Plastic is not The first is to pass local legisla
 
 

..... 
will receive a $1,000 conttibution to i~ generalsthobtship fund.As a leader in itB ownfield, ,. Toyota is proud to recognize players like Lin<key Knapp who demonstrate that there is more to college football playe~ than just what you seeonSaturday afternoons. 
 


   
 
 
, "'--;
~ 
' . ... ~ ..,. .., .. .... ' . 

Toyota hon~ senior, offensive tadleJLin;lsey }:::napp ofNotte DameiJ$areCipie'nt.<>ftlieToyota LeadershipAward fqr demonstrating Outstandlr\g leadership in academics, athleticS, arid community service. Lindsey Knapp will receive theToyota Leadership Award plaque and Notre Dame 
... . ' ... -. ~ . .. ... .. . . , "' 

tion to increase the amount of recycled products used. The second is to compost leaves and grass clippings, and third is to build community-owned recycling centers. 
The profits of recycled products should go back into the community, he added. 
Clarification 

An article in yesterday's Ob
server was unclear in explain
ing statements made by Direc
tor of Security Rex Rakow at a 
sexual harassment forum 
Wednesday. 
Rakow said the department 
does not consider acquaintance 
rape an offense that presents 
an immediate threat to student 
security, as does the presence 
of an unknown attacker on 
campus. 
For this reason, he said, the 
Security Department does not 
distribute press releases when 
a date rape occurs. 
The department treats date rape and rape by an unknown attacker alike in its records, in its investigation of the allegations, and in the University judicial process, Rakow said. The Observer regrets the error. 
Together., 
we can change things. 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL occ 
FREE 

TANNING 
~ 

r:---------,I
 Buy4 sessOls atthe regularI -price and get 4 FREE  Buy 5 I I and get 5 FREE  Buy 6 and I 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDfA~

L--------
D*w10llalrfidtlngCo. KiiijiNOIAN RIDGE PI,...Ajuw_., 
NEXT TO~ GRAPE RD. IA1$HAWAKA 
2n-1SM6 
DahyN -----t S.!.N 

...... 


~-~-贩-贩贩贩-----贩贩 


page 6 

The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 
Friends say Anderson is in good physical condition 
WIESBADEN, Germany {AP)-Almost cation that he was better than any of us everyone who saw or heard former dreamed he probably would be." hostage Terry Anderson right after his Robert Fisk, Middle East cornearly seven-year incarceration ended respondent for Britain's Independent was struck by his physical and mental newspaper and. a close friend of 
strength. Anderson, said he rediscovered "exactly 
Arriving at the U.S. military hospital in the same Terry" when they met in Wiesbaden for medical exams and Damascus shortly after Anderson was debriefing Thursday, Anderson bounded freed. out of the helicopter and strode Fisk, speaking by telephone from 
energetically down the red carpet, Frankfurt, told the AP Thursday: "I said waving in a way that suggested both to him at one point. 'It is absolutelyelation and defiance. incredible, Terry, you have not changed at all,' and he turned to me with a rather The first medical bulletin, released strange look in his eye, and said 'Of hours after his arrival, also was upbeat. course I haven't changed at all. I've been 
"Mr. Anderson told his doctors he feels in a closet, so to speak, for seven years. good, is enjoying being with his loved Time stopped.' " ones and is looking to his future," it said. 
Anderson, chief Middle East Nate Polowetzky, AP's assistant general correspondent of The Associated Press, manager and the former foreign editor had a minor lung condition and a need who sent Anderson to Beirut, found him for tooth care, the statement said. But "astonishing" in a live television news 
there was no suggestion of anything conference from Damascus. serious. "I marveled at the steel that was 
obviously in him and was dumbstruck by "So far everything looks good," said AP the wit and aplomb with which he president and chief executive officer handled the event," Polowetzky said. 
Louis Boccardi, who saw Anderson "That he was brave I think no one ever briefly at the hospital Thursday morning. doubted." Anderson was kidnapped in Beirut on "I was awestruck by how magnificently 
March 16, 1985. he handled that news conference after 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Trimming the tree 

Notre Dame junior Annette Semanchin adds her personal touch to the LaFortune Student Center's Christmas tree Thursday as part of the weeklong "Christmas Around the World." 
AP photographer Don Mell, wh~o~w~a~s~~~~x~e~ar~s~o~r~m~or~e~o~f~th~a~t~o~r~d~ea~l~."~~~~~~~~~~ 
with him but left free by the gun- toting Islamic kidnappers, got on 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
CJ-f2USTM5t5 S.9LL/E
the telephone Wednesday to say 
hello and ask how he was. ~ "He said, 'You slithered out of ~~ V 0 ftptrL. 
JACC VARSITY SHOP 
that one, didn't you," Mell ~ ::::J oJ \-JM 
JACC FIElDHOUSE Enter Gate 3 
~~~o~~~et~~~~!~ing laughs from Super Saver Prices on Roses "I think at that moment I re-Balloon Bouquets Be Stuffing, Plants, SALE RUNS TRRU DEC. 2Ist 
alized that Terry had kept his 
Weekdays-3-6 pm Sat 9-3 pm
sense of humor throughout all Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets th!~T,h~ef~~~~hat we could talk ~~;~~~l;rJo~~hre (219) 2771291 Closed Sundays 
about this in jest was my indi-South Ben IN 46637 Pbone Aaawered Z4 hrs. ular hi h ualit merchandise 
Sports 

Sale Books Gre~t Gift Ideas 
Services always available 

25% off Special Orders Telephone Orders Discounted Best SeUers. 
Selected Books Xmas Gift Wrapping Book Mailing Service 
Gilt Certilicates Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
2nd floor. 

--      .... ~ - " --....... -.... ---... -.. "'  - - ,. ,..-,.. ..... 4"- 
-... ~~贩-贩贩贩-~" 


Friday, December 6, 1991 The Observer page 7 
GREAT GIFT IDEAS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF 

Rape trial raises questions about media 
ATLANTA (AP) -Cable News Network, stung by the failure of an electronic spot to fully hide the face of the accuser in the William Kennedy Smith rape trial, tried a new approach Thursday: a bigger spot. 
Meanwhile, The New York Times, which used the woman's name soon after the Easter weekend incident, explained Thursday why that practice was changed. 
To obscure the woman's face, CNN superimposed a blue disk over a smaller gray dot that had been included in the television pool feed of the West Palm Beach, Fla., trial provided to CNN and other networks. 
The blue shield covered nearly half the picture televised live by CNN as the accuser testified for a second day Thursday. On at least one occasion, part of her face was visible afte::-she moved. 
The previous approach obscured the woman's face unless she moved or the camera angle changed. On 
Christmas 
at the 
Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
SHIRTS SWEATERS JACKETS UMBRELLAS CAPS BALLS  Featuring Notre Dame logos 
Students & Staff 

Enjoy a 10% discount through December 20 
ALL IN STOCK MERCHANDISE I0/o OFF 
Holiday Hours 
NOW UNTIL CHRISTMAS. 
Monday -Friday 9:00am -4:00pm 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL233632S 
those occasions, part of her face was visible. 
The bigger shield was added when the feed reached Atlanta, where CNN is based, said network spokesman Steve Haworth. 
"We installed our own larger dot to make stronger our attempt to hide her identity," Haworth said. "We were concerned that her identity not be compromised." 
Haworth said CNN, like most news organizations, has a policy against identifying alleged rape victims or showing their faces unless the women request it. Of the major networks, only NBC has broadcast the woman's nanie in the Smith trial. 
In addition, Judge MaryLupo has barred TV crews from showing the woma]l's face during the trial. 
The Times named the woman in a story and an oped p.iece in April about the assault case, based on the belief that her identity had become widely known through other outlets. 
271-1177 
FREE DELIVERY 

Defense questions accuser 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -William Kennedy Smith's accuser broke down twice on the stand today after a defense lawyer hammered at her story and asked her sexual details of their encounter. 
"I don't know how he did it, he just -he did it," the 30year-old Jupiter, Fla. woman insisted tearfully as attorney Roy Black questioned her. He had implied her behavior had been seductive and then suggested that it was impossible physically for Smith to have raped her the way she testified to Wednesday. 
Black highlighted apparent memory lapses and inconsistences, and suggested she re

moved her black pantyhose as Smith watched. She broke down when he asked her if Smith was "able to maintain an erection." 
"Why do you have to ask me questions like that?" she said, chokingly. 
Black asked if she wanted to take a break and she replied: "This has been a nightmare for me.... I want to get this over." 
Black then asked Circuit Judge Mary Lupo for a recess, and the judge ord~red that the regular 20-minute midmorning 
break start early. 
The woman says Smith, a 31year-old nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, tackled and raped her on the lawn of the Kennedy family's Palm Beach estate March 30. He ackno'-vledges a 
!JlfJ@[[{il[i']@ [}@[fl fl[JJtJ [/ f)[jJ@@il!JJ~ @GJ[Jl!Jf)l]flij(JJ) 
@ilflllt? 
CHECK OUT THE ECK TENNIS PAVIUON 
FOR TENNIS WEAJl AND OTHER SPORTS 
APPAREL FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE. 
New Hours M-Th 11:00 am-1:00am F-Sat 11 :00 am  3:00 am Sun 12:00pm -12:00am 
sexual encounter but says it was consensual. The charges against him could bring 4 1/2 years in prison. 
She first took the stand Wednesday afternoon, telling prosecutor Moira Lasch that Smith shockingly transformed from a nice medical student into a brute. 
To protect her identity, her face was blotted out on TV broadcasts. Today, CNN used a larger blot, obscuring her hair as well as her face, because of lapses Wednesday in which her face could briefly be seen when she moved. 
She said she gave Smith a ride home from the trendy disco where they met and accepted his offer to go inside to see the mansion. . 
"I enjoyed his company," she testified Wednesday. "He was an intelligent man. He had done nothing suggestive. I had no fear of him. It was a nice night." 
Later, after she declined an invitation to go swimming and was climbing stairs that led from the beach, he grabbed her leg, she testified, breaking into tears. 
She said she screamed and tried to fight him off, but he slammed his body on top of hers and said, "Stop it, bitch!" 
"I was yelling, 'No!' and 'Stop!'" she said, "and he slammed me back in the ground and then, and then he pushed my dress up and he raped me. And I thought he was going to kill me," she said, wiping her eyes with her fingers. 
Under cross-examination, the woman admitted having problems remembering details of 


the night, saying: "I have mem
ory lapses ... because I was 
raped." 
Black pointed to earlier statements by the woman that she didn't believe Smith's penis was erect when he raped her. 
"All I know is he pinned me 
down, he pushed my dress up, 
he pushed my panties aside and 
raped me," she said. 
Black fired questions at her: 
"You have your right arm 
pinned, right? You have your 
left arm pinned, right? He 
pushed down on you? At the 
same time he can pull up your 
dress, he can hold your panties 
aside and he can enter you 
without being able to obtain an 
erection?" 
"I don't ... ," the woman replied, her voice choked. "He raped me." 
"Thank you," Black said, then moved on to other challenges of her story. Black said in his opening statement that an expert on gynecology and psychiatry will testify a rape couldn't occur as the woman describes. 
Black's strategy was to show inconsistencies between the woman's pretrial statements and her witness-stand account. He played audio tapes of her early comments and read from her depositions.  
Among the points he raised: 
She said at trial her stepfather was wealthy and gave her a trust fund. 
But Black noted she initially refused a rape examination because she said she could not afford to pay for it. 
Before the trial, she said she saw Smith go swimming, she went up a stairwell and was tackled from behind as she reached the lawn at the top. She said she fell and rolled around on the grass. But at trial, the woman said she reached the top, was tackled, lost her momentum but used her right foot to "push off" and ran across the lawn. 
"I was trying to get away as fast as I could," she said. "I could see the moonlight reflected off the pool." 
"So your testimony is he was able to take off his clothes, go swimming and came out and ran up the steps to catch you?" Black asked. 
"I don't know how he did it," she replied. 
Before the trial she said she lay on the ground 10 feet from the Kennedy house and screamed toward the house for help. On Thursday, she said her head was turned away from the house and she was screaming toward the ocean. Black suggested she changed the story because she knew defense experts would contradict her version. She said she knew nothing about experts. 
As he continued to ask about the direction of her head, she burst out, "Right now, you've got me very confused. I don't know if I was screaming toward the home or the ocean. But I was hoping someone would come and help me. I had seen the senator a few minutes 
before." 

MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP,贩 
..

HOURS: MONFRI 8:005:3  SAT 8:003:0 

2112 South Bend .Avenue贩~. Appointments If desired 
272-6722 



page 8 
SECURITY BEAT 
Monday, Dec. 2 
8:50 a.m. A University employee reported that she lost her parking hang tag. 
2:25 p.m. A University employee reported that he lost his parking hang tag. 
4:02 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of some !-shirts and some blank checks from his room. 
5:57 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his unattended bookbag from North Dining Hall. 
9:51 p.m. A University employee reported the vandalism of a door of the Hesburgh Library. 
11 p.m. An off-campus student reported his parking lot gate card was stolen from his unattended coat pocket on Nov. 27. 
Tuesday,Dec.3 
7:55 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an injured University employee from Fitzpatrick Engineering Hall to the Student Health Center. 
8:25 a.m. A Granger resident was involved in a minor car accident on Edison Road. 
4:08 p.m. A minor automobile accident occurred in the Fatima Retreat parking lot. 
6:47 p.m. A minor car accident between two vehicles occurred on Dorr Road. 
10:06 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an injured priest from Moreau Seminary to the St. Joseph's 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
ble, but everyone has to get involved wherever they are." 
The United States Institute of Peace is the 15th national committee of which Hesburgh has been a member. He was on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights for 15 years and served as chairman for four years. 
He also served on the Committee for U.S. and Latin American Relations, the Commission on International Educational and Cultural Affairs and as U.S. Ambassador for the United Nations Conference on Science, Technology and Development. 
logether., 
we can 
change things. 
,---, -~'':;:::;L . . 
?TurtJe,....,..Creek 
--Notre Dames --
Cloaest Neighbor 211 0 of a mile from campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 


WE'LL MAKE SURE 
You MAKE IT. 
10 Students Per Class 40 Hours Of Live Instruction Live Tutorial National800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
!IUWIOIH OCUP
 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 
emergency room. 
11:34 p.m. Notre Dame Fire Department responded to a report of an inJured Keenan resident at the JACC fieldhouse. The victim was transported to St. Joseph's Hospital. 
VVednesda~Dec.4 
8:59 p.m. The Notre Dame Fire Department and a Notre Dame Security officer responded to the report of an injured South Bend resident at the Notre Dame Credit Union. The victim was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
11 
:43 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer assisted in transporting an injured Breen-Phillips resident from North Quad to St Joseph's Emergency Room. 

11 
:44 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported that she lost her wallet. 


Thursday, Dec. 5 
12:45 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer transported an injured Stanford Hall resident from Stepan Center Field to the Student Health Center. 
1:52 a.m. The Notre Dame Fire Department and a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer treated an injured Zahm Hall resident outside his dormitory. 
9:44a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her parking hang tag from her unlocked vehicle. 
 
whyyou'lllove 


I 

The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 

12reaSons 


or software. 

11. You c.n COI-.ct to yowschool'a nwlnf1.,.... or minicomputer. 
w.rn Madntosh, you em send in assignments, gain access to 
software you need for aclas..~. and receive 


......_
lecture llO{CS, class schedules, and other informationright from your own room. 


12. It's more affordable than tver. 
Malintosh prices have nl'\'trbct:n kl\vtrcspecially with the studmt priang available from your authorized Apple campu~ reseller You maveven 
4uahfyfor 
~nancing, which makes Madnt~h 
l>Ven more alfonlahk:. 


These n:asons all add up wthe , power of Madnta.h. The power to be your best.'" ... 


Bring home an Apple MacintcNI111 computer today, and use it to complete assignments by tonight-even ifyou've never used acomputer before. 

instead rf~MS-DOS c"""""llds such as COPY C 
VlORJJPIIOC\DIIAFTJXXA. I~ Macmlodii<SI!Sftl:Mohm uurrls. JUCh as O:f!y artd Print. artdptctu'II!'S, such a.tJiltfoltkrs ftx 5loritiR _)(JUr ch-uJIItnll anJ tl/rrlsJr C41l ftxfile JOII Ullnl/o 
throw llUll)' 

3. You don"t ..._ to be a computer ~nwJor to Mt-up. 
Just plug everything together, flip he "on" S\\itch, and you're ready to roll. 
4. H'a a bNeze to copy lnformatJon and paste H Into .other doc~ 

To c~ tJns chart. Simply USl' the ,.,..,../() clnx!e 
the O:f!y command 


Tu plaa the chart on all()/)w>r do<: ument. JUSI cJwos.! tht I'~ command 
~~~~:==:s~:::...:.
::.::-.:::-o:.-::.':::;r-

5. All Macintosh p1"0111'ama work In the same way. Learn to use one Macintosh program, and muve learned the basic; of w;ing them all. For example, the commands you use, such as Open, Close. Copy. Paste, Save, Cut, Print, 
and Undo. are foUJ.d in the same placel"'-ery time. 
6. It Glt1 grow\\lith you. 
This week you're mapring in philosophy, next week it's nuclear physics. After aU, no one knows ex2Ctly what the future will bring. That's why millions of students have found that investing in a Madntnsh is asman moYe. Because Macimnsh can immediately help )00 do whatever you do-bener And if, mne tomorrow, you find that you want to do something different, no problem. It's~ to upgrade your Madmosh to help you rise to the challenge. 
7. H'a greet foto college and beyond. Doing your work fuster, better, and more creatively is also a plus 
in the working world-and that's precisely whv Macintosh computers are 
used in 7 4 percem of Fonune HXXJ 

companies' 
8. It's got connect!-. To connect a pnnter, a modem, an external hard di~k. or IUS! ahout any other peripher.il to a Macmt~h. simply plug it m. That's all there is to It 
NOTI{EDAME 
COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing 
Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7-477 
Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00-5:00 

C 1991 A(>plc Compuocr.lnc Ajlpk. the: Awl< lot!<' I.,Cillhlk lU<muJSh. and "Th< ~to h< your be--1. ore t!'>'m<l lralcmiltt<s uf AWl< Cnnlj>UI<T ln.. Sup!lnv< & il rndnnart d AWl< Computrr.lnc IBM and OS/2"" ~rrc:d :-k.icflmrnw..W llu.wv.-'-\ Mxhwln Co'luiiiUl MS-I>OS ~  rtlP"crcd oi'JCicmor\ <I "'"""'olo (T'"'"""' 
-
Friday, December 6, 1991 The Observer page 9 
America, world remembers Pearl Harbor 
Japanese debate apology for attack 
TOKYO (AP) -Japanese 

dailies reported bitter opposi
tion Friday against any parlia
mentary resolution apologizing 
for Japanese aggression in 
World War II, to coincide with 
this weekend's 50th anniversary 
of the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
They quoted former Justice Minister Takashi Hasegawa as asking at a factional meeting of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, "Why do we have to throw mud at Japanese history?" 
The national Asahi Shimbun daily reported that another member of Parliament, Shin taro Ishihara, told the meeting Thursday: "An apology must be to those in the regions that were colonized, not the victors." 
Ishihara said an apology from Japan is not owed America, Britain, France or the Netherlands, and criticized Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe for expressing regrets for Pearl Harbor in an interview with The Washington Post this week, according to reports in Asahi and in Nihon Keizai Shimbun, an economic journal. 
Ishihara is co-author of the book, "The Japan That Can Say No," which urged Japan to take a stronger stand against the United States. 
Ishihara reportedly also said no resolution renouncing war is needed in Parliament because it is already stated in the constitution. 

Lawmaker Michio Kokita of 
the Socialists, the leading oppo
sition party, said Thursday that 
a resolution of apology may not 
be ready for the Dec. 7 anniver
sary -"No progress is being 
made." 
Kokita said the Socialists long had demanded such a resolution, but the Liberal Democrats in exchange sought cooperation in passing a bill to permit dispatch of Japanese ground troops overseas for the first time since the war. 
The bill is aimed at allowing Japanese troops to join U.N. peacekeeping operations. It has passed Japan's lower house and now is before the upper house, where the Liberal Democrats lack a majority. 
Watanabe said this week that a parliamentary resolution apologizing for Japan's aggression was certain to be adopted. He called it "a milestone." 
At the same time, he expressed "deep remorse over the terrible suffering" Japan inflicted on the United States and Asian countries in the war. 
Yoshiaki Ikeda, a member of the House Steering Committee, said that as of Thursday evening his committee had heard nothing about the apology resolution, and "it may be difficult to issue it in a day." 
Legislators usually seek a consensus before proceeding with such resolutions, he added. 
Sources close to negotiations on the resolution said it would not directly apologize for the surprise attack. It would be watered down somewhat from a stronger statement of responsibility for the war originally demanded by more pacifist-minded opposition parties. 
This is partly to appease right-wing Liberal Democrats who oppose it altogether, said the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity. 

In Thursday's discussions on the peacekeeping forces bill in an upper house committee, Foreign Minister Watanabe said 
Fears remain strong in Japan 
"it is very regrettable that we started the reckless war. We deeply reflect over causing large human and material damage to the United States and Asian nations." 
Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee, "We deeply realize that our nation's acts in the past have caused great pain and damage to people in regions including Asia and the Pacific." 
Similar expressions of regret in recent months have been seen as partly intended to allay 
Cheney honors 

surv1vors 
HONOLULU (AP) -Defense 
Secretary Dick Cheney on 
Thursday told survivors of 
Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
that their sacrifices 50 years 
ago will not be forgotten, and 
pledged to keep America's de
fenses strong. 
Cheney spoke at a Pearl Harbor Survivors Association flagraising ceremony at Fort DeRussy, a beachfront Army reserve post in the Waikiki section of Honolulu. 

At about the same time, about 20 miles west at Pearl Harbor, about 1,000 people gathered at the Arizona Memorial Visitors Center for a service in memory of the nine bat-" tleships destroyed and crew members who died in the bombing. 
The events were part of a weeklong program commemorating the attack Dec. 7, 1941, which drew the United States into World War II. 
During the Waikiki ceremony, about 2,000 survivors and their families watched the unfurling of a new 48-star U.S. flag, the standard for this country at the time of the attack and the official flag of the Pearl Harbor Survivors. 
"The number of stars is the only difference in the flag that flew then and the flag for which America fought in Operation Desert Storm," Cheney said. 
. TOKYO (AP) -For many Japanese, Pearl Harbor represents a nightmare from which the nation has never completely awakened. 

Despite Japan's best efforts to put the war behind it, fears of the militarist seizure of power that led to Pearl Harbor remain very much alive here. They are evidence that deep down, many Japanese don't fully trust the thin overlay of Western-style democracy imposed on their "buke shakai" -the warrior culture that is far older. 
Nor, for that matter, do many other Asians. Unlike most Westerners, they saw up close the faces of Japanese mili
the bayoneted children 

the slaughter pits, the racial arrogance that in defeat was transmuted into the diplomatic timidity the world knows today. 
However irrational, this lingering sense of unease that the ghosts of Japan's violent past will return to shatter its delicate postwar political structure explains much of the recent public debate here, many 
Japanese say. It explains the long, agonizing parliamentary dispute over a 
U.N. peacekeeping bill that would send troops abroad for the first time since World War 
II. 
It explains, in part at least, much of the government's reluctance to address Japan's wartime behavior: with so much emotion roiling close to the surface, the issue remains a political time bomb. 
Such fears also explain why the famous U.S.-imposed Article 9 of the Constitution, which renounces war as a sovereign right of Japan, has become sacrosanct despite conservative politicians' efforts to change it, and a longtime U.S. admission that it was a mistake. 
The parliamentary debate over the peacekeeping bill, under way in the upper house, is a struggle between leftist opposition parties who see their role as watchdogs for any new sign of militarism and an increasingly right-leaning governing party. 
To most Americans, the idea that establishing a 2,000-man peacekeeping corps to help monitor U.N. cease-fires could lead to a military overthrow of this advanced democracy, and another Pearl Harbor, would be ridiculous. 

But to many Japanese such fears reflect bitter experience: more than a millennia of military dictatorships, and the shattering of Japan's last democratic experiment in the 1920s by a de facto army coup. 
They also reflect some timeless characteristics of Japanese society, such as the lack of a strom~ center of power in government, leaving a tempting vacuum, and the much-noted tendency of Japanese to divide into close-knit groups who contend for preeminence. 
Centuries ago they were fierce samurai clans from different regions; today they are, more peacefully, Toyota and Nissan, Sony and Matsushita, government ministries, and so on. 
Scottsdale Mall 
South Bend-941-0650 

Come Christmas Shopping In Downtown CHICAGO 
When:  Sunday,  Dec. 8th  
Tix:  On sale Monday, Dec. 2nd-Friday, Dec. 6th in the Junior Class Office $6/ person -covers transportation  

OPEN A SHIFRIN CHARGE  CONVENIENT TERMS AVAILABLE 

Bus: Leaves main circle at 10:00am & 0
1111111111 
4; A.J .(; ~-~ .!  < "  <  , ' ~ ,  ; -& "\ ~ , < , , \ '-" t ',"""' 1, ,~,.~.,~ 1' It~ 1i ~ c;: ' , i: < I \1. 1  ~ 'l ~ ~ t t 'l .._ C. ~ f. 4. t.  1. \. \ 't. L \ '1. I \. l t i I 'I t  f t  A t & I 0 t  0 ec' a 1_-.. ".--.-.:.~. ~. -. -.-------. -.-.----. -- .-.I
1 L I   
page 10 The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 
Controversy plagues aide to Dan Quayle 


WASHINGTON (AP} -A top aide to Vice President Dan Quayle helped modify an air pollution regulation this fall a change that could benefit an electric utility in which he owns stock. 
It's the second time Allan Hubbard has been involved in such decisions. 
Hubbard obtained Quayle's permission to participate in discussions about the regulation. And a Quayle spokesman called questions about Hubbard's role "a witch hunt." 
Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., who chairs an environment subcommittee, contended Hubbard had an apparent conflict of interest, as did two government watchdog groups: OMB Watch and Public Citizen. 
Hubbard acknowledged he chaired the Oct. 16 White House meeting where the regulation, not yet final, was changed; and other government officials who were there said he participated in the decision. 
The rule could permit more acid rain emissions by electric utilities, including PSI Energy Inc., an Indiana power company that lobbied strongly for a less strict regulation than first drafted by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Hubbard's financial disclosure report lists ownership of stock worth between $15,001 and $50,000 in the utility's parent company, formerly PSI Holding Inc. and now called PSI Resources. 
Hubbard is Quayle's deputy chief of staff and executive director of the Quayle-led White House Council on Competitiveness. News stories last month revealed that Hubbard is half-
Dan Quayle 
owner of an auto appearance products company that could be covered by air pollution rules reviewed by the council. 
The council staff examines government regulations and played a major role in changing the acid rain rule, according to EPA officials. Waxman and environmental groups contended the change would lead to significantly greater pollution, but EPA officials said they were able to obtain safeguards during the meeting to neutralize the damage. 
U.S. law prevents federal employees from participating "personally and substantially" in particular matters where they have a financial interest. 
But they can be granted waivers in advance of such participation. The waiver requires full disclosure of the financial interest and that it not be substantial enough to affect the integrity of a decision. 
Hubbard asked for a waiver and on June 12, Quayle granted it. 
The waiver allows Hubbard to participate in government action that affects entire industries, even though he may own stock in one company in that industry. He is not allowed to participate in actions that affect only that company. 


The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Fruit pie? Candy? 
Rich Nix, an ND Vending employee for 1 0 years, stocks a vending machine in LaFortune Thursday. As part of their customer appreciation celebration, ND Vending is having a contest with a $100 grand prize giveaway. 
WE.DLIKETO REMIND' YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
Kissing professor off the hook 

ATLANTA (AP} -Emory University was too lenient with a law professor accused of kissing female students and pursuing them for dates, the 
U.S. Department of Education says. 
The law school should have charged Abraham Ordover, 54, with sexual harassment instead of letting him off with a public reprimand, the Office of Civil Rights said Monday after a sixweek review. 
The university cleared Ordover in March of more than a dozen allegations of sexual harassment, giving him only a reprimand for "inappropriate behavior." Ordover resigned in April after more accusations were made against him. 
The federal findings carry no penalties, according to the university. 
A federal complaint against Ordover was filed in June by former law student Jeff Straus. 
"The law school denied it and denied it and denied it, but here's a third party that's saying, 'You women, you're correct, and the law school was wrong,'" Straus said. 
Straus had never taken a class with Ordover, but said he filed the complaint after attending a sexual harassment workshop at which several women accused the professor of making advances. 
Ordover denied the allegations, and said Wednesday the case had damaged his career and personal life. 
"In the battle to secure victims' rights in cases of sexual harassment -rights that are well worth fighting for -there has been no attention whatsoever paid to the rights of the accused," he said. 



Minority scholarship 

Ren1ington Court
ruling sparks debate 
BOSTON (AP) ..._ College geographic. balance. freshman Thabiso Zwane The American Coundl on shook his head as he read Education and the National about the government's new Association of Independent policy forbidding race--based Colleges and Universities said scholarships. fewer than one percent of 
"There already is a gap beuniversity and college tween blacks and whites," students receive aid based said the Northeastern exclusively on race. University student, who is  Many black students and black...This will definitely professors worried about the make it worse. It will fire up impact of Education Secretary the blacks and increase the Lamar Alexander's announce.- resentment of the whites ... ment. 
The Bush administration on ''There are some fairly Wednesday barred mean~spirited people on scholarships awarded solely campuses these days around on a racial basis but said issues such as affirmative colleges receiving federal action policies." said Donald funds may use fmancial aid to Polk, a professor at Suffolk attain racial, cultural and University Law SchooL 
LAST CHANCE to get 
Sesquicentennial Posters 
before Christmas 
Only SS 
At: La Fortune Info Desk Country Harvester 
To Beneftt: Senior Formal 


Viewpoint 
Friday, December 6, 1991 
--Ih---. e-0-bse.-----'r"-~er------.&.-=Y~ . -
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .............. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .....Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .............. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........... Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Last American debate: Tastes Great! Less Filling! 
If a public intellectual is someBut after a short while he setSoviet Union, but because what motions of initiating a public
Andrew Cutrofello 

one we expect to encourage tled down. We struck up a conpasses for public debate is no debate, by pantomiming the 
Subterranean Homesick

rather than discourage debate versation about the time when longer real public debate. gestures of genuine discourse, I on potentially controversial isDunston singled up the middle Politics Today, people just look at disfeel as if I'm symbolically sues, then the closest thing to for the Cubs' first hit. Now I was curious about this senters from the norm like performing the forgotten rituals an American public intellectual At first. he struck me as a guy. they're crazy. And corporate of democratic politics." that I'm aware of is an oldfriendly lunatic. "Well, the new slogan is 'It's it America plays right into this, "Preserving it for the timer who sits in the left-field "Darn it," he said to me, " I and that's that,'" I reminded discouraging serious debate at archives." bleachers at Wrigley Field and know what I think is the most him. every turn. String together a "Exactly." chants. "Tastes great!" salient feature of this particular The guy scowled into his beer. few of today's advertising sloIt was the bottom of the ninth 
You think I'm kidding. concoction of malt and hops. "I can't help but read ominous gans, and you've got a veritable and as I looked around the sta
Sure, there are plenty of "Tastes great!" But I'm always portents in that 'It's it and that's subliminal practical syllogism: dium I saw that most people windbags who run for office, eager to hear what others that' campaign," he said to me Premise: 'Why ask why?' had already left. When I turned sponsor the Dartmouth review, think." during the seventh-inning Premise: 'It's it and that's that.' to the guy next to me I saw that or get themselves invited by "Yeah, whatever," I offered. stretch. "It's as if corporate Conclusion: 'Just do it.'" he was gone too. Phil & Oprah & Ted & Sally to "Hey, the Cubs are rallying." America decided that even the "Sounds like Orwelllian douLater, on the train back to blah-blah-blah. But they're not "OK," he finally said when spectacle of stimulated public ble-think," I said. South Bend, I was reading a public intellectuals. They're Jerome Walton had hit into an discourse was too dangerous a "What it's recommending is sympathetic review of Dinesh just public fanatics -people like inning-ending double play. "So thing to encourage." Miller-time never-think. Which D'Souza's book. "Illiberal David Duke, Dinesh D'Souza, there's no 'issue' here. Nothing I asked him to explain. is why I like to start shouting Education." The reviewer Leonard Jeffries, and the antito 'debate' about. But I just "Used to be people would shut 'Tastes great!' at the old ball sought to corroborate the choice goons of Wichita, love it when a bunch of us off debate by saying, 'If you yard. Hey, I'm no Leon Trotsky paranoid views expressed in Kansas. They talk a lot, but drunken fools get to shouting think things are so bad here, fighting Stalinism or Rosa Parks D'Souza's book. In shocked they sure aren't facilitating ra'Tastes great!' and 'Less filling!' why don't you go live in the fighting racism. I'm just some tones he described how stutional discussion. at each other, 'cause it's about Soviet Umon!' Nobody says that poor schmuck trying to have a dents at an Ivy League univer
A public intellectual should as close as I ever get to anymore -and not because the good time rooting for the home sity were encouraged to think open up the space for public diagonistic oratory in the agora." Soviet Union is no longer the team. But by going through the about the political issues under
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

0/5PATO{, THIS IS Y{)() JlJ5T 7001<. 
'When you stop drinking, you
65. CAN YOU 6/V& A FARE TO Mb 50J1t" f)fRbCTIONS PHI/AJJet.PHIA? 
have to deal with this marvelous 
70 35R/X.K&ftuel< IU!lH THE M8leR PlAZA? RfJNN!NG? 
personality that started you 
drinking in the first place.' 
Jimmy Breslin 
Just say know. just submit: 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

DECEMBER 6-8 
-week nd calendar 

Dick Holliday and the Bamboo Gang, Club 
Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. Bob, Sneakers, 10 p.m. lllthatones, Ctub 23, 1 0 p.m. 
EVENTS "A llldsumener'a Night Dream," Theodore's, 7 p.m. "A Christmas C.rol," Washington Hall, S:tO p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC Bob, Sneakers, 10 p.m. Rick Bennick and the Blades, Club Shenanigans, 10 Web of LIM, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS "A Midsummer's Night Dream," Theodore's, 7 p.m. "A Chrtstmaa Carol," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 

y 
EVENTS 
. -..-贩-_ .'!!-:-----:..-贩.;:._ 
A Chrt8tne carot,Wasttington Hall, 8:10 P~ -; 
----o.-1 
FRIDAY "Monsieur Hire," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Horne Alone," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY "Monsieur Hire," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7 & 9:30p.m. "Home Alone," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "The Addams Family," 6:30, 7:45, 8:45, &10 p.m. "C.pe Fear," 7 & 9:40p.m. 
"Uttle Man Tate," 7:15 & 9:20p.m. "American Tall2," 7:30 & 9:30p.m. "Alii Want for Christmas," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. 

By JOHN O'BRIEN Accent Editor 
-wenty-five years ago, Capt.T James T. Kirk uttered that famous phrase: "Hey, where are all the viewers?" It's hard to believe now, two and a half decades, two television series and five (soon to be six) movies later, that the original "Star Trek" was a moderate hit at best. It premiered in 1966 to small audiences yearning to go "where no man has gone before." Things are different today. There are millions of "Star Trek" fans around the world, the show has carved its niche in 

..--~---.
.'~.1'~~-----贩__-----_-._-
 _____ _ 
:_ -. :"!: .. - 
..... ' 

To boldly go where no on 
American culture and the crew of the Enterprise is now gender-neutral, going boldly "where no one has gone before." 
Nonetheless, "Star Trek" fans, or "Trekkies" form a group nearly as fanatic as the Deadheads. Men and women young and old call themselves Trekkies, and there is even a devoted group here on campus. 
Notre Dame juniors Chris Allen and John Bagley watch "Star Trek: The Next Generation" every night, and they're usually joined by about 15 to 20 friends in their room in Flanner, according to Bagley. 
If you're a Trekkie, yo_u too can experience a nightly "Star Trek" fest-but only if you have cable. WPWR-TV {Chicago) shows the new series at 7 p.m. 
every night and has recently begun showing reruns of "Star Trek" originals at 8p.m. 
The Trekkies who. do watch both shows seem to agree-"The Next Generation" out-guns its predecessor. 
"The acting is a lot better," said Bagley, "and the space-time continuum theories are more philosophically challenging, not to mention the timely moral lessons." 
"The acting is light years ahead of the old one," said Walton Collins, editor of Notre Dame Magazine, managing to throw in a space pun. 
Collins, too, is a Trekkie, thanks to his children. 
"Like a lot of fans, I never watched it in its original seasons," Collins said of the 
page 13 


,
,. 
r 
:f~\ 
. 贩~ I 
I 
Nc.  . 贩ci-t.. 7贩a贩贩.贩:' .
.. ... . 
:  --~-~ l ' --. 
( ) 

.has gone before... 
recently begun Trek" originals at 
watch both shows lext Generation" 
tter," said Bagley, ntinuum theories ' challenging, not rallessons." 1ars ahead of the :ollins, editor of lanaging to throw 
de, thanks to his 
1ver watched it in )llins said of the first series. "But I started watching reruns and my kids got me hooked." 
The new series is a lot more polished, Collins said. That's probably got something to do with advances in special effects technology, Allen said. 
"The science is a lot better-they don't just run back and forth and shake the camera when the ship is hit," Allen said. 
The technological advances were apparent when Leonard Nimoy, a.k.a. Mr. Spock, made a guest appearance on "The Next Generation" in November, said Collins. 
"He didn't seem to even fit in the same cast," Collins said. But Spock will have his chance with his own cast when "Star Trek VI: The 

Undiscovered Country" opens across America today. The film, which William Shatner claims will be the final installment in the series, features Shatner's Kirk in the role of a peace envoy. He must work with those dreaded Klingons as the they and the Federation negotiate peace. 
Employing one of the "timely moral lessons" Bagley mentioned, the movie is a parallel to the end of the Cold War. 
And when the opening credits of the film begin, many Trekkies will be there. 
"I'll be at the 7:15 show with my two sons, their wives and my wife," said Collins. Bagley, however, said he won't be able to make it when his friends hit the theater tonight. 
"But I'll be there in spirit," he said. 
.... i.,:~ 

\ 
Illustration by MICHAEL MULDOON 
The crews: (clockwise from top left) Capt. James T. Kirk, Dr. "Bones" McCoy, Spock, Lt. Cmdr. Data, Cmdr. Riker, Capt. Jean-Luc Picard, Counselor Deanna Troi, Lt. Worf, Lt. Cmdr. Geordi LaForge, Dr. Beverly Crusher, "Scotty", Checkov, Cmdr. Uhura, Sulu. 
--~~~-------~------------------~---------------------------------
Page 14 The Observer Friday, December 5, 1991 
A theocrat at the breakfast table talks to Charlie 
C 
harlie said to me recently at breakfast, "With everything that's happening, the students, some of them, are in a mood of despair. Can you write something that will give us hope?" I wondered if he was speaking for the God-squad he belongs to. 
"Love has pitched his mansion in the place of excrement," I answered, quoting Yeats, "which makes this a great year for Christmas." Later, remembering the worry lines between his eyes, I wish I had quoted Dickens: "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times...it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of of hope, it was the winter of despair ... " 
Old men shall dream dreams, says the Bible, and young men shall see visions. Maybe that will happen bye-and bye, in a later century, or in a better country; as we read in the prophet Zephaniah, "And it will come to pass, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and daughters shall prophesy ... " 
But currently, I don't happen to be Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!) who woke one night from a deep dream of peace; and Charlie is not yet a visionary. So, at breakfast on Wednesday, when it was snowing, all I could offer the lad was the comfort that comes from anticipating the birth at Christmas of the Word made flesh. 
I suppose the Church must be on trial for its wishful thinking every year, as Christians wait for the fallout of grace that they hope will catch up with them in the season of Our Lord's Nativity. Catholics must seem especially naive as they proclaim the glory of Our Lady as "our tainted Nature's solitary boast," on December 8th, the feast of her Immaculate Conception. 
It's good to hear that original sin never stained her; but could you tell she was sinless when you made her acquaintance, and was her perfect submission to the will of God so visible that it made the neighbors nervous? I mean, couldn't we honor Christ's mother without boxing her in with dogmas which isolate her like a demi-goddess whom we'd be too shy to talk to, if we met her on the street? 
Perhaps if Charlie and his friends could take to heart the Church's faith in the Incarnation, they would be of good cheer, and not despondent, in this early winter of their discontent. 
Doesn't the Incarnation mean that the Lord understands our every kind of sadness? In assuming the form of a servant, didn't He make the same journey we are making into life, death, and the holy thereafter, like a security guard who checks out rooms that VIPs will soon be entering? 
I can't see the world through Charlie's young eyes; but when he shows me his sadness, I am able to weep with him, because the things that hurt him hurt me also, and most of the immediate world tends to share the same kind of heartbreak. Yet, grace is everywhere, even in disappointments which leave us bitter. 
Charlie may to live a while 

( longer, before he finds that out. Would it surprise him to learn that even at my age, I'm still finding out that mortal sins 
caressed/By the dark webs, her that has the charism, and we nape caught in his bilV He holds are the beneficiaries. "When we
Father Robert Griffin her helpless breast upon his leave, the place follows us; breast} How can those terrified when I'm in London, I keep letters to a Lonely God vague fingers push/The expecting to see Our Lady feathered glory from her standing next to the church loosening thighs? ... " spire, if I turn my head." Maybe 
which would shock the Pope water, and oil-of the inward Explaining all this to Charlie this is mythology from a private can turn into royal highways and spiritual grace of the in tedious detail, I asked: "What stock; but it's private leading us to grace? Sacraments He entrusted to the does this terrifying rape scene mythologies that get us through 
The sexual revolution could Church? "Thou hast conquered, have in common with St. Luke's the night. lead you to believe that God had 0 pale Galilean; the world has scenario of the gentle wooing of What was bugging Charlie? nothing special in mind when grown gray with thy breath," the Virgin Mary by the Holy He was suffering from shock 
He created the human race. wrote Swinburne, in a poem Spirit, waiting for her consent, after losing his girl. I tried to The sexual revolution began as lamenting the death of the before overshadowing her as a tell him, "They are not long, the soon as creatures perfected pagan gods. Every year, when spouse; sending the angel days of wine and roses." But ways of enjoying sex without Christmas comes, you could get Gabriel as the John Alden, who how can it be otherwise, if our 
reproduction. Now we have the idea that the pale Galilean, would carry on the courtship?" special people, leaving, take more ways of being sexual than in His humility as the Christ I noticed that the lad's eyes summer with them? you can shake a stick at: Child, has routed the false gods were beginning to cross. "Love But in the twinkling of an eye, 
hetero-; homo-, uni-, trans-, again. has pitched his mansion in the the seasons change, and and a-, which must mean that As Christians, we survive on place of excrement," I told him summer is on the doorstep reproduction takes place, myths that give our lives dignity again, though I could tell it was again. In a year without a apparently without the and meaning. Notre Dame is the Notre Dame myth, not the summer, there is always expenditure of passion, in a test important as a mythical place Christian myth, that was giving Christmas, when Love pitches him the blues. He was his mansion, if we let Him, in
tube. which survives on the Christian There could be a high price to tradition. Is the Christian myth discovering that Notre Dame the outhouse we have made of 
pay for genetic engineering, fulfilling, because we believe it isn't the real world, or else it's our hearts. when you consider the ways it is true; or do we only hope that too much like the real world. As e.e. cummings says of the could harm us. The country's it's true because we find it's Either way, he questioned Lord God at creation, I took a 
blood supply is already tainted fulfilling? whether the campus measured breath the size of a circus tent, with more deadly viruses than Maybe it's six of one, a halfup to the ballyhoo that makes it before trying again to raise this world dreams of, as you dozen of the other. But in order famous. Charlie's morale. Figuratively find out from lab workers doing for Christmas to be kept holy as Notre Dame isn't heaven, I speaking, I was dancing as fast 
blood work in city hospitals. the feast day of the humanity of acknowledged; but maybe God as I could; that's why I was 
When you consider all the ills God, it had to be truthful as the hasn't finished making it great embarrassed to find he had which flesh is heir to, you might love story of a family showing yet. The place starts to feel fallen asleep at the breakfast imagine that God would disdain great grace under pressure; unfulfilling and raw, he said, table. to touch His splendor to our how could pious fiction serve as once the great people leave. "I Despair must be a mood that 
dust, or that He might limit a framework for the Gospel of know what you mean," I said. wears you out quickly. I left the Himself to having a Platonic Jesus? "For an old timer like me, the young man dreaming dreams; relationship with our mortal Pundits would like us to place is filled with the presence from the scowl on his face, I clay. But without flesh, what believe that the Incarnation is a of a thousand absences. Their don't think they were biblical. robes could Christ wear as our spin-off version of Zeus visiting ghosts take turns in coming nor could they have given him great eternal high priest? Leda in the form of a swan, a back to haunt me." much hope. I wondered if he If the pliysical world were not Greek myth which Yeats used in Anyway, I said, Our Lady is would remember to tell the charged with the grandeur of a powerful poem, ending in here to mother the Christ in us. God-squad where Love has 
God, once it was redeemed darkness, warfare, and murder: Anytime we stop to look at the pitched His mansion. from the primeval fall, where "A sudden blow: the great Dome or visit the Grotto, we can As the theocrat having would He find the outward and wings beating stilVAbove the celebrate Our Lady as a breakfast with Charlie, I should 
visible signs-like bread, wine, staggering girl, her thighs moveable feast. It's the place have stayed in bed. 
lit 


e~t 

Students, parents and faculty, Send some of.your favorite people, or that special someone a holiday wish through the Observer 
Your cost is only $18. 

The ads will be the size of the birthday ads Photos will be accepted 
Holiday greetings will be published in the final fall edition of The Observer on December 13. 
The deadline to submit materials is 1:00 pm on Wednesday, December 11. 
The Observer office is located on the 3rd Floor of LaFortune. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
2 AM'S FOR RENT When the clock strikes 12 BP CHRISTMAS SYR 00 THE COPY SHOP 00 Katy-Have a great 21st birthday on 200 PER MONTH She'll be out on the town HEY3NORTH: LaFortune Student Center the 7th. I hope Bridget's and The 
NOTICES 

USE OF ALL UTILITIES People better beware What do you want for X-MAS? Copies as low as 3 in volume! Commons are ready tor you! ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 For miles around. TOP 10 Answers Happy Birthday! TYPING AVAILABLE We'll put on the Prince 10. A Yo-Cream Machine Col 
287-4082 Get down and have some fun 9. A new Roommate Divinely wise Ann, you carried in 4-6 Bed Am. Furn. House, New And she'll be giggling lotsa beer 8. A Clue your womb the pure Mother of God. Carpet+ Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Cuz my roomie's finally 21! 7. A law school acceptance Obtain the forgiveness of sins for 
ALTERATIONS AND Alarm syst., Across From Bus Stop. 6. Friends those of us who honor you with EUSTY EUSTY EUSTY EUSTY DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL Best houses will be gone after XHappy birthday Moe! 5. A Job fervor! KATIE EUSTERMAN IS 259-8684. Mas. 233-9947. Love, K. 4. A NICE Date 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 
3. A new alcohol policy ZAHM: ALWAYS LOSERS. TODAY DECEMBER 6, 1991 !!!! 
2. COED HOUSING Come to Walsh and do a shot WORD PROCESSING FOR SALE Your real name in the paper. 1. someone " LOOKIN' FOR with Eusty to celebrate her 
256-6657 Baaaaaaaahahahahahahahaha. SOME ACTION!" THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 21st birthday!!! Have fun tonight and I hope all your CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE 
AIRLINE TICKET: CHICAGO TO 

Christmas wishes come true!! Happy 21 st Birthday Katie DENVER ROUND TRIP. DATES Monday thru Friday Eusterman!!!!! Merry Christmas! 
Fast, Professional Typing Rob,
VARIABLE (OVER X-MAS BREAK). 

277-7406 Thanks for wonderful Dec. 2-6, 11 am-5pm Hey Katie, How old are you?
CALL ANDY 283-1305 

year' COME SEE Sat. Dec. 7, 11am-4pm Love, Jeanne and Colleen Can't wait to celebrate this A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S LOST/FOUND For sale: weekend! DREAM!!! Holiday refreshments served Love, SHAKESPEARE'S BEST while you browse. Colleen Loeffler,
Genesis cartridges PERFORMED BY YOUR FELLOW Lower Level LaFortune Hello from Walsh! 

John Madden Football $25 

FOUND: RING IN DEClO. SEE ME DOMERS FOR ONLY $1 AT Merry Christmas! We think of 
Tom Lasorda Baseball $20 

JANITOR AND IDENTIFY. THEODORE'S! THURSDAY, you as we drink tea and
Arnold Palmer Golf $20 FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY. SPM. SENIORS SENIORS decorate our tree. No, its notAltered Beast $15 

Congratulations T J! real like your freshman yearWhat a bargain!!!'
HELP** 
You took the SMC plunge and WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT tree-vandal!!'
Call x1471

I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE survived with your head up. Did Top 1 0 Reasons To Wish CAREER AND PLACEMENT FOR Miss you! t_. JACKET AFTER THE FARLEYyour leg thaw out on its own or did MOLLY QUIRK INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR Love, Colleen and Jeanne FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT your fellow Dillonites have to help a BELATED 21ST BIRTHDAY: FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING
MINOLTA X370 35mm Camera, 

THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. you? 1 0) Jen finally made it home SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW Fligg and Chris (Cracker), 
50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash, and

CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN In the future, remember: fountains to help celebrate. THROUGH WEDNESDAY, Congrats on your new 
more. Like new. $225, OBO. 233

LAKEVILLE,IN. CHRIS X4327. ion the Mid-West are ususally 9) She won't expect it today. DECEMBER 11. manager positions!!! Hope 
2344 after 5. 

surrounded by WATER (Even if 8) 8/c at the dance there will to see you on T.V. at the games!!!! North-Eastern fountains aren't!) .... be COUCHES and HALLWAYS... FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed We love you, 7) We wanted to feed her Happy Birthday Man 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED

eyeglasses was found Sunday night Gina and Maribeth Shrimp Creole for dinner. Love, NO Women's Choir: yearbook photo 
89 MERCEDES $200, 

( 12-1) on a walkway across from the 6) So tonight she can Search URP, E-E, and all of the animals. taken Sat, before mass
86 vw $50

JACC. If they're yours and ya want (the) Countryside (for an) at 4 in122 Crowley. 
87 MERCEDES $1 00,

'em -call X3885!! WANTED: Admirable Man (get it???) 
65 MUSTANG $50. 
5) We wanted her date to THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! 
Choose from thousands starting 

Couch, mattress, and other make snow angels for her. THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! Desparate woman seeks$25. FREE 24 Hour Recording 
LOST-THICK SILVER CHAIN with furniture. 4) To give her time to get THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! assassin to kill writer of obnoxious 
Reveals Details 801-379-2929 

BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at over her breakup w/ "Pamela" personal.
Copyright

BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23. Call Jon @271-1553 3) We wanted to wait until See the Flanner/Siegfried Players call Sandi x2732 
#IN11KJC.

Christmas gift from Leave a message. she had a major. perform the Dickens holiday classic. parents-serious sentimental value. 2) So she'll make eggs for us. Dec. 5, 6, and 7 at 8:10p.m. in Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions 1) B/c we're just going to get Washington Hall. JASMINE GROOVE 
ann klein

asked Andy-her drunk at the formal Cost: $2 studentsl$3 non-students Friday
rust suede jacket sm 

1can't wait to see your hot, sexy tonight, because we're all too (to benefit Dismas House) &$40/bst offr 
outfit young to take her to Coaches'!!! Saturday& othr designr clothes 
LOST: on Saturday. HAPPY B-DAY MOLLY!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "And God bless us, everyone." at BRIDGET'S
287-5926 

Love, Joan -Love from the 8-4-9 ... REDDISH-BROWN RABBIT FUR P.S. Happy b-day to Mitsy too!!! EARMUFFS Oh never failing Protectress of 
One way tix for sale 

ONE EAR SLIGHTLY TORN Christians, despise not the petitions CARMEN S.-Why dont you ever
O'Hare to Wash. D.C.

GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. "A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM" of us Christians, but in your come over and see me?My paisley 
12/20. Call 384-5265. 

IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Good rates. Save Money. Call me COME JOIN US FOR A MAGICAL goodness hear and answer us... boxers are waiting.Come and see LISA AT X4862 for a quote 9:30-6:00, SUMMER NIGHT -IN THE them sometime. Love, Your Biggest 289-1 993. Office near campus. MIDDLE OF WINTER!!! Flirt.
Neod to ello 1 way t;c to LAX

I 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 0: What will be the drink of _ Dec 19. x3720.
WANTED 8:00 P.M. in THEODORE'S choice of Maureen Connelly 
as she celebrates her 21st Hey Pangborn-Keep our green F, SUGAR BOWL PACKAGE 4 DAYS Birthday coincidentally we'll keep our dorm, thanks. Fisher. 3 NIGHTS SUPERDOME HYATI + with the 50th Anniversary 4 TICKETS TO GAME. $1200 Fred's wife of the Japanese bombing of 
NO ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLY CALL ANDY 407-894-7489. break a leg (or nail)! Pearl Harbor on Saturday? Lando owns you. PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415) We LUVya! 579-1432. Your #1 fans A&K A: A Kamikaze! Anneth, the Dude
$40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV 
Cheer uf)-it's only your Scripts. Fill out simple 
SENIORS SENIORS Have an INTOXICATING life-everything will work out "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, 
Chp. Rndtrp. male tix. for sale, 21st Birthday Maureen!! perfectly-GRE or no GRE-trust relaxing at home, beach, vacations. 
NO to Los Ang., 12/20 to 1/13; WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT SHENANIGANS me--l knoweverything. 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 
x1558 CAREER AND PLACEM~NT FOR CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
L Hour Recording 801-379-2925 
INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR Sunday, December 8th HEY MOE!!! Copyright #IN11 KEB. 
FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING 8:00p.m. Washington Hall SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW Free Admission YOU'RE FINALLY LEGAL Spend New Year's in Florida! THROUGH WEDNESDAY, a merry mix of holiday $2,400 Value! DECEMBER 11. entertainment HAPPY 21st 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 23 AT tix Indy to Miami 
BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan 
Lv ?am 12/25, Retrn 4pm 1/5 FLY ANYWHERE USA 1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. 

Price: $1,750. Top ten reasons to come see A $189 AlT. The 1992 Student Travel ph (812) 448-3188 GLEE CLUB Midsummer Night's Dream: Update is here. 24 hr. info. 716-383CHRISTMAS CONCERT 2168 Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 10. It was featured in Dead Poets' 
Need ride to Michigan City on PERSONAL Society
Due to reduced seating, Saturday. IF-you can help me call 
tickets will be sold for the first time 9. Two plays for the price of one Hey Mike Scrudato-nice attitude. 3710. 
ever @ info desk in 8. Our director would love it if you What, are you from Jersey or WHO'S ON THE TEAM? 
LaFortune for $1. came?. It's better than MacBeth something? 
F?ESEF?VATIONS AVAILABLE NOW!

6. Shakespeare was way cool SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH 
DAYTONA BEACH ,,..,. SfQ4 NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. 
5. Ebeneezer would RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT 
S ane1 7 NIGHTS 
4. Men in tights and women in short 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,..,.Sf28
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 

LATE Like Usual!!!!!!!! skirts Alumni couple seeks babysitter for 6 
s AND 'NIGHTS 
Sf22 

Happy 21st Birthday 3. A real live Amazon and one hairy mo. old infant, 9 Hrslwk, min. 
STEAMBOAT _.. 
2, 5 AND 7 NICHTS

FOR RENT WE HAVE-BETH KUZMICH, the last person on ass Exper-ience with infants preferred, earth to turn 21 . 2. Sex, drugs, and violence references required. Phone: 
PANAMA CITY BEACH '"'"' Sf22 
7 NIGHTS
Silence of the Lambs 

Love, AND ... 287-0260
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
FORT LAUDERDALE """'SfJ6
Robin Hood Colleen, Lisa and Darla 1 . There are no parietals in the 

7 NICHTS

219-291-7153 Backdraft 
woods outside of Athens 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND """' Sff9 
S AND 7 NIGHTS
The staff, cast and crew 
4-11 p.m. 
MUSTANC ISLAND I ,,., 1128

HURRY, HURRY. AVOID THE (draw your own conclusions and of "The Christmas Carol" 
Seven days a week 
PORT ARANSAS

RUSH. PLACE YOUR enjoy the fun!!!] would like to thank: 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. 
Basement of LaFortune CHRISTMAS GREETING 

11th Annual PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST A Midsummer Night's Dream Laura Empey Furnished. $200. /Mon. 
Celebration!

$150. Dept. Call277-8866 
ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM Mike Bersic 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS

Tues!Sat. 10am/5pm. 
FRIDAY, DEC. 13. A Midsummer Night's Dream Jeff Simerville 
18003215911
Rachel Mitchell Tonite and Saturday at 8 p.m. Kyle

Near N.D. 
IRISH GARDENS 

Warthog, in Theodores--only $1 !!! Maria Gonzalez 
cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 
A year down and a lifetime Come for a good laugh to get Sonia Weber 
dep. ref. 288-7207 This weekend December 6 and 7 
to go ... Happy Anniversary! you in that Christmas spirit. Nancy Rauscher & 
Irish Gardens will be open until 6:30 

I love you, Princess Joe Theby 
p.m.Nice So. Bend home, 5 mins from 
MYTH: 
Wanted:220 women to live in We couldn't have done it without NO. Wshr/dryer, refrig, stove, There are plenty of SYR's so come 

"...RELIGIONS ARE NEITHER historically feminine dorm. Inquire at you!!
dishwasher, NC & in A.S.A.P and preorder your ' 
NO SOMETIMES

REASONABLE NOR BELIEVABLE, Bangporn.
garage. $420/mo.+dep. 
flowers for that special someone. 

AND THEY ARE ALL TRUE .. ." THE METHA-TONES 
232-8943 Mark. 
MEANS YES.
ADOPTION THE METHA-TONES 

THOSE FADS WILL NEVER Happy, loving couple wishes to raise METHA-TONES OVERSHADOW THE REALITY OF your white newborn with warmth Friday Dec 6 CLUB 23 Hey burly men, 
THE ABSURD. and love. Can provide financial 
NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE security and education. 
REALITY:

FOR NEXT FALL. 
Do you have your timecards ready? 

ENJOY YOUR DREAMS, THE Medical/legal expenses paid. Michael likes red, 
Two 4-BR furnished homes with Punch in, we're workin' overtime. 
NIGHTMARES OF YOUR LIVES! Please answer our prayers by Elfkin is blue. 
security systems and washer/dryer. 
NO MEANS NO.
calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800-RayNay is loved 259-7801 or 255-5852 for more 

"Daft" 456-2656. and she knows it too.
details. 
Cleveland? 


Friday, December 6, 1991
SCOREBOARD
page 16 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I, 'j ! l 
I i 
I 
AP ALL-AMERICA TEAMS BASKETBALL TOP 25 
Rich team, poor team 
FIRST TEAM 

How the top 25 teams In the Associated Offen 
Press' college basketball poll fared 

The New York Mets won the bidding war for
Quarterback -Ty Detmer, Brigham Young, 6-0, 175, senior, San Antonio. 

Thursday:Running backs -Vauglvl Dunbar, Indiana, 8-0, 207, senior, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Marshall 
Bobby Bonilla's services with a five year, $29 
1. Duke (30) beat No. 7 St. John's 9181. 
Faulk, San Diego Slate, 510, 180, freshman. New Orleans. 
Next: vs. Canisius at Buffalo Auditorium, 

million offer; the small-market Seattle,,.Mariners 
Wide receivers -Desmond Howard, Michigan, 59, 178, junior. Cleveland; Mario 
Saturday. 

never entered the fray. 贩 :::::~:~f'\;:::::,,,, ..
Bailey, Washington, 59, 187, senior, Seattle. UCLA did Next: vs.
2. (2-0) not play.
Tight end -Kelly Blackwell, Texas Christian, 8-2, 242, senior, Fort Worth, Texas. 
Papperdlna, Saturday. 

Baseball salaries have skyrocketed-.s~~j}::,: ,..
Canter -Jay Leeuwenburg, Colorado, 83, 265, senior, Kirkwood, Mo. 
3. Arizona (1-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 
Guards -Jerry Ostroski, Tulsa, 84, 305, aenlor, Collegeville, Pa.; Jab Flesch, 

1990, when CBS and ESPN paid $1.408 ~alliti:;:
16 LSU, Saturday.
Clemson, 83, 268, senior, Morrow, Ga. 
4. Ohio State (3-0) did not play. Next: vs. 

for television rights to the games. ''':
Tackles -Greg Skrepenak, Michigan, 8-8, 322, senior, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Bob 
Oregon State, Saturday.
Whitfield, Stanford, 6 7, 300, junior. Carson. Calif. 
5. North Carolina (5-0) did not play. Next: 
. 
All-purpose -Ryan Benjamin, Pacific, 58, 170, junior, Tulare, Calli. 

But while all teams i Average plllyer salllries, 
vs. Central Florida, Saturday.

Placekicker -Carlos Huerta, Miami, 59, 188, senior, Miami. Seton Hall (21) did play. Next: liS.
6. not 

share equally in this ) in hundreds ofthousands ofdollllrs
Defenee 
lona, Saturday. 
bonanza, local media 
Lineman-Stave Emtman. Washington, 8-4, 280, junior, Chene~. Wash.; Santana 

7. St. John's (31) lost to No. 1 Duke 91 Dotson, Baylor, 65, 264, senior, Houston; Brad Culpepper, Florida, 6-2, 
revenues can make

81. Next: vs. Manhattan at Madison Square263, senior, Tallahassee, Fla.; Leroy Smith, Iowa, 6-2, 214, senior, 
Garden, Saturday, Dec. 14. 
the difference between 
Sicklerville, N.J. 

8. Oklahoma State (60) did not play. Next: Linebackers -Robert Jones, East Carolina, 63, 234, senior, Blackstone, Va.; Marvin 
whether or not a team 
vs. California at Tulsa. Saturday. 

$866
Jones, Florida State, 62, 220, sophomore, Miami; Joe Bowden, 
can compete in the
9. Indiana (21) did not play. Next: vs. No. 
Oklahoma. 6-0, 230, senior, Mesquita, Texas. 
14 Kentucky at the Hoosier Dome, Saturday. 
free agent market. 
Backs -Kevin Smith, Texas A&M, 60, 180, senior, Orange, Texas; Terrell Buckley, 
10. Kansas (30) did not play. Next: vs. 
Florida State, 5-10, 175, junior, Pascagoula, Miss.; Darryl Williams, 
The Mets, playing in
Long Beach State at Long Beach Arena,

Miami, 62, 190, junior, Miami; Dale Carter, Tennessee, 6-2. 182, senior, Saturday. 
one of the nation's 
Oxford, Ga 
11. Arkansas (41) did not play. Next: vs. 
largest markets and 
Punter -Mark Bounds, Texas Tech, 511, 185, senior, Stamford. Texas. 
Missouri, Saturday. 

having one of New York Baseball Seattle
12. Connecticut (30) did not play. Next: 
SECOND TEAM 
vs. Maine, Saturday. 

baseball's most Mats average Mariners
Offen 
13. Utah (50) beat Bradley 65-41. Next: 
lucrative media rights 
Quarterback -Casey Weldon, Florida State. 
vs. AlaskaFalrbankf. Saturday.
Running backs -Trevor Cobb, Rice; Russell While, California. 

deals, can bid for i--~~:tti;;;~;;p~-:;;;;{;;;;贩1988"";;;:贩贩贩贩
14. Kentucky (2t) did not play. Next: vs. 
Wide receivers -Carl Pickens, Tennessee; Sean LaChapelle, UCLA. 
No. 9 Indiana at the Hoosier Dome. Saturday. 
expensive free agents;

Mark Chmura, Boston Collage. vs.
Tight and -15. Alabama (30) did not play. Next: Canter -Cal Dixon, Florida.  
the struggling, 
North Carolina State at Charlotte, N.C.,
Guards -Mlrko Jurkovlc, Notre Dame; Will Shields, Nebraska. 
Friday. 
small-market Seattle 
Tackles-Leon Searcy, Miami; Ray Robarts, Virginia. 
16. LSU (2-1) did not play. Next: at No. 3 

Mariners cannot. 
Ali-purpose -Dlon Johnson, East Carolina. 
' 
Arizona, Saturday.
Placekicker -Dan Eichloff, Kansas. 

17. Georgia Tech (41) did not play. Next: Daten 
1991 season ticket sales 1991/ocal TV and radio revenues
vs. Tennessee-Chattanooga, Saturday.Lineman -Rob Bodine, Clemson; James Patton, Texas; Robert St-art, Alabama; 
18. Georgetown (21 ) lost to Virginia 76 . Rusty Medearis, Miami. 
New York JJ=:::m::m$30.6ooJJoo
66, OT. Next: vs. Delaware State, Monday.
Linebackers -Marco Coleman, Georgia Tach; Darrln Smith, Miami; Dave Hoffman, 
19. Oklahoma (3-0) did not play. Next: vs. 
Ne;.,:::~~:~~90iil 
Seattle
Washington. 
$3,700,000
Coppin State, Saturday.

Backs -Troy Vincart, Wisconsin; Darren Parry, Penn State; Willie Clay, Georgia Tech; Matt Darby, UCLA. 2~ DePa~ ~~~~d n~~ay. Next:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Charlotte, Friday. So p ch Th u ldAl AP/Reid Brown
Punter 

Jason Christ, Air Force. 21. Iowa (30) did not play. Next: vs. urce: A resear  e IIP'Of manac Army. Friday.
THIRD TEAM 
22. Michigan State (40) did not play; 
NBA LEADERS
Ottena 
Next: at Dayton, Saturday.
Quarterback -Shane Matthews. Florida. 

23. Wake Forest (3.1) did not play. Next: Richmond, Sac. 15 144 62 372 24.8 Ruming backs-Tony Sands, Kansas; Derek Brown, Nebraska Scoring 24.!)
at Fairleigh Dickinson, Saturday. Robinson, S.A. 15 144 76 364 Wide receivers -Aaron Turner, Pacific; Michael Smith. Kansas State. 
24. UNLV (30) beat James Madison 8073. G Ri FT Pte Avg Ewing, N.Y. 15 155 52 362 24.1 Tight and -Johnny Mitchell, Nebraska. Jordan, Chi. 16 195 97 493 !)0.8 Daugherty, Clev.15 134 89 357 23.8
Next: at Rutgers, Saturday.

Center -Mike Davlin. Iowa. 25. Michigan (10) did not play. Next: at K. Malone, Utah 18 193 135 522 29.0 Barkley, Phil. 13 116 73 307 23.6 Tim Simpson, Illinois; Hasham Ismail, Florida. All. 109 342
Guards -Cleveland State, Saturday. Wilkins, 17 164 451 26.5 Hardaway, G.S. 15 131 57 22.8 Tackles -Troy Auzenne, California; Lincoln Kennedy, Washington. Drexler, 18 86 26.0 17 61 385
Port. 180 468 Bird, Bos. 155 22.6 All-purpose -Qadry Ismail, Syracuse. Mullin, G.S. 15 160 61 385 25.7 Pierce, Sea. 1 5 124 78 333 22.2 Placekicker -Jason Elam, Hawaii. Adams. Wash. 14 1 t 5 96 354 25.3 Scott, Orl. 15 122 60 329 21.9 Defenee Linemen -Joel Steed, Colorado; Robin Jones, Baylor; Shane Dronett, Texas; Chris Slade, Virginia. Linebackers -Erick Anderson, Michigan; Stave Tovar, Ohio State; Ed McDaniel, Clemson. Backs -Eric Castle, Oregon; Sean Lumpkin, Minnesota; Carlton Gray, UCLA; Tracy Saul, Texas Tech. Purter -Pete Raether, Arkansas. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League NEW YORK YANKEES-Announced the resignation of Robart Nadarlander, managing general partner, affective Dec 31. TEXAS RANGERS-EMtended the contract of Bobby Valentine, manager; Tom Grieve, general manager, and Sandy Johnson, 
JENNY
assistant general manager, through lhe 1993 season. Signed Tom Drees, pitcher, to a contract with Oklahoma of the American 
THOMPSON
Association. 
BASKETBALL 
IS I9!
National Baeketball A..oclatlon CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Signed Kevin Lynch guard-forward. LOS ANGELES LAKE AS--Signed Chucky Brown, 
Happy
forward. MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Piaced Felton Spencer, canter, on the injured Jist. 
Birthday!
Continental Baeketbell Aeaoclatlon LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed AI Thomsen, canter. Activated Vince Hamilton, guard, from Injured reserve. Waived Von McDade, 

guard. ~~Zi~~:;!,l~~~~~Zz:li~~:;!.:~z:li~!:;Z~Zz:li~!:;Z~;:~~~~~ FOOTBALL National Football League BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Mike Brannan, oflensive lineman. MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Announced the retirement of Jerry Burns, coach, at the end of the season. 
COLLEGE 
CITADEL-Announced the retirement of Chal 

1992 -93 RA APPLICATIONS
Port, baseball coach. FORT LEWIS-Announced the resignation of Sheldon Keresey, football coach. MIDLAND LUTHERAN-Announced the retirement of Don Watchorn, football coach. Named Steve Schneider football coach. NOTRE DAME-Signed Lou Holtz, football 

r coach, to a 5-year contract extension. 
Are Now Available 

I 

Office of Student Affairs
! 
315 Administration Building
i 
Through Friday, January 17, 1992 



"' 
"'  ~--; ,_,  -;..~"",,;_  - - - .....  p  *  .,._ 9  -....  翻  -   -. ..............p_.p..... ~---:"""'~--贩--~~,r: ... r-"!"~r.-{-,. ...... "':  ~  .-.... ..  ..  ~  
Friday,December6, 1991  page 17  

REPORT OF THE WORK OF THE TASK FORCE ON EVANGELIZATION, PASTORAL MINISTRY AND SOCIAL VALUES 
~ ,_.- 
. -~ 
--~
... 
'\: ..  
'.J ~
,, t . 
:_'( 
. ~,
- 
~-.:.. 
... 
...... 

An exchange of letters between Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., chair of the Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and SoCial Values, and Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. provides information concerning stages of implementation of the work of the Task Force, and the availability of the Final Report to the members of the University community. 
The texts of the two letters follow. 

Letter from Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. to Edward A. Malloy, CS.C. dated November 26, 1991. 
Dear Father Malloy: 

In January, 1989, you established a task force to examine questions related to the areas of evangelization, pastoral ministry and social valuesYou asked the Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and Social Values: 1) to attempt an assessment of the religious attitudes and values of the members of the University community, 2) to determine which values the University, as an institution, claims to transmit, and to evaluate the University's effectiveness in the process of transmission, and 3) to analyze whether a gap exists between what the University claims to do in the areas of pastoral ministry and evangelization and what it actually accomplishes . 
The Task Force decided to study existing written programs, materials and self descriptions, and to develop interview instruments for collecting current impressions from members of the University community in order to examine the context in which the University strives to deepen and challenge the faith life of its members. 
The Task Force began its work in April, 1989 and continued into the second semester of the 1990-1991 academic year. A decision was made to develop and use an interview format to discuss issues of concern with students, faculty, administration, and others. This was done primarily to promote discussion on important issues among a relatively small but random sampling of persons. These interviews, which formed the basis for much of the analysis of the Task Force, took place during the spring semester and the summer of 1990. Undergraduate students interviewed represent the classes of 1990 through 1993. Other persons interviewed were at the University during the 1990-91 academic year. Those interviewed were grateful for the opportunity they had to state their opinions and to share with others matters of importance to them in the life of the University. 
During the course of early discussions, a number of observations emerged within the Task Force that shaped its future work. 
A general framework for these concerns initially centered around the term 'evangelization.' Members of the Task Force wished to avoid any misreading by which the term might be understood as synonymous with 'aggressive missionizing.' They were concerned, rather, that the word 'evangelization' retain its full and legitimate meaning within the context of a Catholic institution, namely, ministering to members of the University community and to the community beyond the University in terms of the Gospel. Because evangelization implies action on the part of the Church and of individuals, social values and the social justice dimension of human behavior are an important part of work or ministry. 
1. 
At a Christian community like Notre Dame, it is important to form a community with Catholics, as well as with persons of other faith traditions . 

2. 
Exposure to Catholic lore without an integrated sense of Catholic heritage in terms of intellectual content and development is incomplete. There is great potential in the faith lives of the students. Opportunities are missing for many, however, in terms of education in faith. There is a need for more catechesis. Moreover, the University must provide more insight into what the Church is and what the leadership potential of our students within the Church is for the future. 

3. 
Although the University provides numerous opportunities for social service, it must also encourage continued reflection by students on the necessity of integrating social service as part of their lives for the rest of their lives. Growth in Christian faith means being with the poor, coming to a deeper sense of awareness of social justice issues and learning not to be afraid of either. 

4. 
It is important to be cognizant of changes in our student body both with respect to Catholic students and students of other faiths. Our Catholic students do not all come from the stereotypical 'Catholic family' of the past. We deal with Catholic students from a background of divorce. We encounter some Catholic students with little or f\O prior religious practice, who find themselves in a Catholic environment without any specific orientation. These changes in the student body occur at the same time that the University at large is becoming more pluralistic, notwithstanding a selfconsciously Catholic identity. 


There are many connections with the 
past. What we are living is not a 
disjunctive moment, but an adjustment 
to what is a different yet richer reality. 
The Final Report of the Task Force, 
which was issued on February 12, 
1991, was comprised of the following 
chapters: 1. The Study Design; 2. Notre 
Dame as a Catholic University: Catholic 
values, their importance and their 
transmission; 3. Tension points; 4. 
Negative values at the University; 5. 
The religious atmosphere and student 
values; 6. University channels of 
assistance; 7. Recommendations, and, 
8. The Graduate Student Sample. 
After the Final Report was completed in February, 1991, work began immediately to implement the recommendations of the Task Force. 
Pertinent sections of this report were shared with the staffs of campus ministry and of the Center for Social Concerns. A three person implementation committee discussed specif-ic recommendations that would be submitted to the officers of the University at their annual summer meeting at Land O'Lakes to be held in July, 1991. 
In September, 1991, you formed six ad-hoc groups, chaired by officers, to study the recommendations of the implementation committee, and six specific areas in particular. 
1. A planning committee composed of persons designated by the president, the provost and the vice president for student affairs will develop a program during the 1991-92 academic year, for implementation beginning with the 1992-93 academic year, which offers new members of the faculty and administration, an opportunity to study the history, tradition and current implications of what Notre Dame is as a Catholic ins\itution. The active and significant participation of the officers 
who are most responsible for sharing 
these values with new members of the 
University community will be 
encouraged. 
2. 
A study will be made to make recommendations to the officers concerning the percentage of Catholics to be included in the pool of undergraduates who are admitted to Notre Dame. It is important to continue to evaluate the goals and methods of undergraduate admissions, with a view to promoting the recruitment of outstanding Catholic students. 

3. 
A small planning group composed of representatives from campus ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Student Affairs will plan programs which will lead to closer collaboration in every aspect of the formation of undergraduate students with an emphasis on promoting an integration between faith and action. These divisions and departments deal directly with one aspect of what Notre Dame professes to pursue with regard to its Catholic Character. This implies appropriate levels of 


personnel and financial support equal to the expectations placed on these centers. 
4. 
The potential and use of significant and appropriate institutional research to keep the officers' group informed about the concerns of students and faculty regarding values, the Catholic character of Notre Dame, the attitudes which affect and determine action, and other matters should be studied, as should the current operations of Department of Institutional Research. 

5. 
A small planning committee will prepare an annual meeting between some officers and administrators of the University and officials of the Congregation of Holy Cross. These meetings will examine ways-in which the resources of the Congregation can be tapped in areas which touch upon the Catholicity of Notre Dame and the religious formation of the students, through campus ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, appropriate aspects of residentiality, and other areas. 

6. 
How and in what terms the question of the Catholicity of the University is raised with candidates for appointment to the faculty and high levels of administration should be studied. It is important to come to an general understanding about this important matter in order to be of assistance to all who participate in the process, with all due respect for proper procedures. 


These ad hoc groups have presented interim reports at each of the scheduled meetings of the officers this semesterIn addition to the work of these ad hoc groups, several other steps were taken at your request. 
A special meeting of the Fellows of the University of Notre Dame took place in the fall of 1991, and a presentation on the Final Report was offered to the Board of Trustees in October, 1991. 
The basic text of the Final Report will be published in a future issue of Notre Dame Report. Complete copies of the statistical tables will be available for review by any interested party at the Library Concourse Office of Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concern, and the Social Sciences Training and Research Laboratory. The members of the Task Force hope that this Final Report, and the significant amount of material gathered which is now available for future study and research, will enhance the life and mission of the University. 
While the Final Report contains the opinions of a group about matters central to the mission of the Notre Dame in one given year, it also 

underscores how deeply felt and held 
these values are. Clearly a significant 
number of people recognize many of the 
matters discussed as issues that lie at 
the heart of the University's special 
heritage and tradition. 
Thank you for your support of this 
Task Force and for the ways in which 
you have already taken a personal 
interest in its recommendations. 
Sincerely in Holy Cross, 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Counselor to the President 
Chair, Task Force on Evangelization, 
Pastoral Ministry and Social Values 
Letter from Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. to Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. dated November 27, 1991. 
Dear Father Warner: 
I would like to thank you for your 
recent letter concerning the work of the 
Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral 
Ministry and Social Values which your 
chaired. As I have mentioned on more 
than one occasion, it has been and is 
my opinion that the work of this group 
has been important not only because of 
the value of the study itself and the 
recommendations arrived at, but also 
because so many members of the 
University community were involved in 
the process. The picture of the 
University which the Final Report 
captures in terms of the values and 
opinions examined, is both interesting 
and valuable. The many months of 
work which went into this project have 
been worthwhile and will benefit the 
University in the months to come. 
Your letter summarizes well some of 
the follow up to the work of the Task 
Force which is already underway. I 
know that staff work at the Center for 
Social Concern and campus ministry, to 
mention just two departments, will 
provide specific ways in which the 
recommendations will find expression 
in the daily life of our institution. Of 
special importance will be the ways in 
which the work of the Task Force can 
be used by one or more of the 
committees of the Colloquy for the Year 
2000. 

I appreciate the candor of the observations of members of the University community contained in the Final Report. Some of the negative responses referred to in recommendations or contained in some of the quotations from different interview groups underscore 
the need for better means of communication and a careful examination of the ways in which all of us carry out our responsibilities within the University. It is, in a way, a tribute to Notre Dame that the members of the University community hold all of us to high standards, and are justifiably disillusioned when we fall short of these ideals in terms of the goals and the high principles and mores which we set for ourselves in terms of policies, practices and procedures. 
In addition to expressing my gratitude to you and the members of the Task Force, and the special group of people who assisted you \\ith the interviews. I wish to thank all the members of the University who participated in the interviews.and who, through their candid expression of opinion and expectation, have contributed greatly to the success of this endeavor. 
Cordially, 

Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
President 

--------~~-----------------._.__________....._____________ 
!: ! 
page 18 The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 
hero of the night would be Benit. He's too good a shooter not he did walk first. There's no nett. to be productive." doubt about it." 
B-ball Louisville 
The Irish made a concerted And after Louisville finally Bennett and Sweet kept effort to get him more shot opcaught on and began denying fighting, keeping the Irish close
continued from page 24 continued from page 24 
portunities all night, and he reBennett the ball in the second until the very end of the game, tough drive, hitting a fadeaway sponded by tying his career half, Sweet caught fire and bewhich opened the half with a when they came up just short. 
10-4 run to pull within one.
runner from the right side. high with 27 points on 9-of-19 gan providing the scoring "It was our best game so far 
"The truth of the matter is we
Sweet responded with anshooting and creating plenty of punch. After scoring only four this season," said MacLeod. other three from the left basescoring chances for himself (he points in the first half, he ended didn't change anything at all." "We only had 11 turnovers, so 
said Crum. "We talked about
line, and that's when Sullivan got to the foul line 11 times on up with 25 points, hitting 10-of-that's a low for us. We did a 
playing better defense and
ended the battle with his fourth the night} and his teammates 19 from the field, including much better job of handling the 
putting more pressure on peo
trey of the night, giving the (eight assists). three second-half three-pointpressure and getting the shots. 
ple, and not letting them pass
Cardinals a 75-70 lead with "He had the hot hand ers. We had 59 shots, and shot over 
5:28 remaining. tonight," said MacLeod. "We "I just got into my flow," said the ball where they want to." 50 percent. 
The teams traded baskets for
"In the second half, I forced were calling clear-outs for him, Sweet. "I played like that a lot "There were a lot of positive
the next eight minutes of the
the issue just a little bit," said and for the most part, he was last year, and I was just waiting things. I like what Daimon did 
second half. A Jon Ross foul on
Sullivan, who finished with 24 very successful. I'm only wonfor that same opportunity to and I like what Elmer did. We points on 8-12 shooting-and dering how he didn't get come across this year. It did in a Dwayne Morton layup and the did not get the ball to Phonz 
ensuing foul shot gave
four-of-five from three-point through there more. the Butler game, and I knew enough. and we need to make a 
Louisville a five-point lead with
territory. "I felt we needed a lit"I talked to him before the that it would come back concerted effort to do that be
8:19 left to play. 

tle lift, and I tried to provide it." game and told him to relax and tonight." cause he's a powerful inside 
Sweet got the Irish back to
In the last three minutes, it

For a while, it looked like the take the open shot when he had player who wants the ball. He 

The Observer/David Lee Elmer Bennett (left) fires a shot over Louisville's Keith LeGree. Bennett tied his career high with 27 points against the Cardinals. 

J 
r 
i 
I. 
I ~ 
, I 
l 
I' 
appeared that Notre Dame's first win would come tonight as well. The Irish cut a six-point deficit to two, 81-79, with 1:16 remaining as both Bennett and Sweet swished two free throws apiece. 
And when Sullivan missed the back end of the one-and-one with 56 seconds remaining, Bennett came back with a twisting, double-clutch layup to draw Notre Dame within one, 82-81, with 40 seconds left. 
But after an Irish timeout, Sullivan took matters in his own hands. He brought the ball upcourt, and with Notre Dame not willing to foul him, dribbled away 15 seconds from the clock before passing the ball to Cornelius Holden, setting up the final dramatics. 
"I tried to keep it as long as I could without getting a fivesecond count," said Sullivan. "I went and gave it in the corner thinking he'd get it back to me quickly, but they fouled him within two after nailing threepointers on consecutive possessions, but the real turning point came with 5:17. 

MacLeod sat down Ellis after he picked up his fourth foul with just under 11 minutes left, but had to put him back in when the Cards threatened to make another run. 
Ellis picked up a loose ball in the Notre Dame backcourt, and had one man to beat to the hoop. The Irish big man took three steps, the last a hop that put him belly-to-belly with the Louisville defender, who took a big flop to the ground. 
The official clearly didn't need much of an excuse to call a foul on Ellis, as he issued a phantom foul that disqualified Ellis with five fouls. 
"There's no doubt about it. Absolutely terrible call," said MacLeod. "He walked and I turned my head. I couldn't believe he called a foul, because 
has the hands to catch just about anything we throw in there." 
Ellis had only eight points and just five rebounds, while his partner inside, Tower, scored six and grabbed six boards. With those two in foul trouble, the Cardinals wer~ able to outrebound the Irish 37-28. 
"I think Notre Dame will prosper from that game the same as we will," said Crum. "I think they'll feel a lot better about themselves than they have up to this point. I think they made a lot of progress. They gave a great effort, they have nothing to be ashamed of." 
Bennett's 27 points tied his career high, first set against Southern Cal last season. 
The Irish take to the road, facing Valparaiso on Monday and Boston College on Wednesday before a three-week break in the schedule. 
right away." 
And while Sullivan may not have delivered the coup de grace in this game, he certainly placed the telling blows that allowed the Cardinals to bounce back from a 38-31 halftime deficit. 
"Everick came back in the second half and played like he's capable of playing-with confidence," said Louisville coach Denny Crum. 

If you see news happening let us know.. Call The Observer at 239-5303. 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S & M.D.S 

SOUTH BEND 273-1866 

SCUBA COZUMEL SPRING BREAK 
MARCH 7-14, 1992 DIVER & NON-DIVER PACKAGE INCLUDES: AIRFARE, LODGING 2 TANK DIVES DAILY 

OFFSHORE DIVING TRANSFERS DAILY DIVER $995.00 ; NONDIVER $795.00 
WHAT A BETTER WAY TO SPEND SPRING BREAK! 
INFORMATION MEETING AND MOVIES, SNACKS ROOM 218 ROCKNE 1:00PM DECEMBER 7 CALL KATHY 277-0058 FOR MORE INFO 

~ JR Aquatics 
51333 U.S. 31 -33 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 



.. 
Friday, December 6, 1991 The Observer page 19 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
helps you cover more territory.For less money. 
Knight ejects reporter 
Female writer barred from IU locker room 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -Coach Bob Knight was following Indiana 
/ 
University policy when he barred a woman Associated Press reporter from the basketball locker room. officials said. 
Reporter Beth Harris said she was prevented from entering the men's facility Tuesday night, while attempting to get player comment following Indiana's game against Notre Dame. 
"It's our policy to deny access to members of the opposite sex to all locker room areas," said Kit Klingelhoffer, sports information director for IU. 
Harris, a sports writer from the AP's Indianapolis bureau, said it was the first time she had ever been barred from the dressing room. 
; 
Klingelhoffer said Knight "probably was not aware" that Harris had previously been in the locker room. 
He said the university's policy is to make players available outside the facility to reporters of the opposite sex. 
However. Harris said that she asked sports personnel to request interviews with two players for her, but Knight told the staff not to make special accommodations. 
NCAA policy encourages equal access for men and women but leaves the matter up to each school. The Big Ten has no policy on women in men's locker rooms. 
Klingelhoffer said IU's policy does not affect men's basketball alone. 
Knight did not return a telephone call by The Associated Press. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

Attention 
all rowing club members: Orders will be processed on Friday. Erg-a-thon money should be brought to the meeting or given to Heidi in room 318 Farley. Reminder, that individual clothing orders will not be processed if erg donations are not in by Friday. 


Photo Courtesy Indiana University Bobby Knight, who has directed Hoosier teams to three national titles, directed AP writer Beth Harris from the IU locker room Tuesday. 

Recycle this newspaper 

Become aStudent Cardmember today and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.   
Only the American Express Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more. 
Just look at the map and pick the place youei like to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express Student Privileges Program. Such as up to 30 minutes of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year-absolutely free. And that's just one example of how the Card can help you save. 
For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again. 

Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. 
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terriYou have your pick of more than 150 cities in the tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime Mmnc.>apolis, Sl Paul. St. Louis and Nev. Orleans are consK1e~.ot~ east ohh~ Mississippi Riv~ 
because there are no blackout dates. But you must  A credit of up to t370 for calls w11l appear on each billing stat~mem for 12 mom tis aft~renroll ment JPO is equal to the charges for a dom~suc 30minute nighlwtend MCI urd Compatimake your reservations within 14 days of the day you bility call and appropnat~ surchuges You must l'nroll for this Sl'rvicr' by ~bl'r 31. 1991 
Membership Has Its Privilegese 


Continental 

II 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soo11. 
~ ~
. . ........ ...... 

I 
( 
l page 20 The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 I 
w 
b ND volleyball splitsat NIVC Men's swim team set to 
Observer Staff Report Junior Jessica Fiebelkorn Kavanaugh) all had 18 digs in 
defend Catholic title 
scored 13 kills, had 10 digs and the defensive struggle. Notre The Notre Dame volleyball eight blocks against West VirDame had 102 digs for the 
By JASON KELLY 

team split its first two matches ginia, while junior Marilyn Crawhole match, while the Indians 
Sports Writer 

at the National Invitational gin added 12 kills and four made 103. Volleyball Championships yesblocks. Cathy Folcer led the The Irish, who yesterday were 
Defending a championship isterday, putting it in a must-win Mountaineers with 17 kills. without the services of MCC never an easy task, especiallysituation today if it hopes to Newcomer of the Year Christy 
when much of the workload
reach the championship round The Irish bounced back in Peters, face Drexel today at 
rests on the shoulders of
of the tournament Saturday. their second match of the day, 1:00 p.m. and California at 5:00 
! i 
freshmen.

defeating Arkansas State, again p.m. 
That's the situation the NotreThe Irish (23-9) lost to West in a five-game match, 15-8, 11
Dame men's swim team finds
Virginia in their opening match, 15, 15-10, 4-15, 15-13. Senior Notre Dame must win both of itself in this weekend, however,I t 15-10, 7-15, 4-15, 15-12, 15-9. Chris Choquette led Notre Dame its matehes today, and hope as they look for their third conNotre Dame hit just .077 in the with 19 kills and 15 digs, while that West Virginia loses at least 
secutive title at the National
fifth and deciding game, while Fiebelkorn added 18 kills and twice among its other three Catholic Swimming and Diving
! 
the Mountaineers nailed over 15 digs. matches in order to advance to Championships in Boston. Jim Birmingham31 percent of its shots to pull Three Irish players (Janelle Saturday's championship round 
the upset. Karlan, Alicia Turner and Katie action. 
In the last two years. the Irish the freshmen dramatically," have had to come from behind Cornick noted. "It gave them a to claim the championship. In chance to gain experience 
H I Hockey team 
1989, they escaped with a twoagainst some tough competition I point win over Villanova and early in their careers."l hopes to axe got past LaSalle by only two The entire team is expected 
and a half points in 1990. to benefit from the IllinoisForesters again Along with Notre Dame's opexperience, however, as the ponents, several records fell at swimmers have learned that Observer Staff Report last season's Championships. they are capable of competing 

Led by current senior captain with the nation's best. The Notre Dame hockey team Jim Birmingham, the Irish cap
hopes to duplicate the results of tured one of those records with Despite losing to four of the the last home-and-home series a time of 1:23.53 in the 200 five teams they faced at Illinois, versus Lake Forest this meter freestyle relay. several outstanding individual weekend. Birmingham, Greg Cornick, performances helped give the 
The meetings on November David Nathe and Brian Rini Irish the confidence they will 22 and 23 saw the Irish sweep also teamed up to break the need as the season progresses.
the Foresters in the two game 800 meter free relay record Freshman Mike Keeley won series, 7-0 and 5-2. with a time of 6:45.7 4. the 500 meter freestyle and the The Irish offense, behind Big performances will be 200 meter butterfly, while John 
winger Lou Zadra, overpowagain needed from senior capGodfrey took the 200 meter ered the Foresters. Zadra won tains Birmingham and Chuck backstroke in a win over Illithe Division I independent Smith, as well as juniors Ed nois. 
player of the week honors for Broderi~k. Colin Cooley and Cooley was a winner in the his play against Lake Forest. Cornick if the Irish hope to . 100 meter individual medley
He netted two goals and swim to victory for the third against the Illini. dished out four assists while straight year. "We felt like we did prettysurpassing the 100 point mark Freshmen have turned in well at Illinois and we gained
for his career. some of the top performances confidence against some naThe Notre Dame defense; so far this season, but they tional caliber competition,"meanwhile, used their superior have not faced the pressure of Cornick added. 
size to neutralize the Lake ForSenior wingman Lou Zadra, shown here against New Hampshire, leads this type of an event. Yet few things would give the I est offense, as checking well the Irish in a home-and-home series against Lake Forest this weekend. Two weeks ago, they visited team more confidence than a I! and keeping Forester shots to a Illinois and were put through a third consecutive National
next night. Notre Dame scored again break the .500 mark for
minimum. Behind the defense trial by fire against some of the Catholics Swimming and Diving
all but one of the goals on the the season. Notre Dame travels
l: and goaltender Brent Lothrop, nation's top competition. That title-especially given the na
power play en route to a 5-2 to Lake Forest on Friday, re
the Irish recorded their first should help prepare them for tional caliber competition they
win. turning home to the Joyce
shut out of the season. 

this weekend. will face this weekend at theShould the Irish take two Fieldhouse for Saturday's 7:30
I
<. The Irish power play was re"The Illinois meet will help Championships.
from the Foresters. they will matchup.
vitalized at Lake Forest the 



I. 
ijj , 
J'/
I l 
l-l 
I . 

ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINFSS ADMINISTRATION
I 
JUNIORS AND SENIORS 

If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to 
rIj 
Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than December 20, 1991. 

One senior and one junior will be selected this fall, first meeting will be in the Spring 1992 semester. 
' 
r
I 
The Office of Minority Student Affairs Presents: Poet, Actress, and Director of the Gospel Musical 
and Author of 
al[J{]~ ~00000~ dJOO~ 00d1@10~ ~Wrftr [ND[j~ 

o.  ~ l -  '(. L II ) ~ .- L .. II ~ ) J..; _  ~ A  l I i  ) )'   -C. t  io ~      ~ & ., _,. _.. 

Friday, December 6, 1991 The Observer page 21 
~ 
.-.... 
~ ,':i-', ' ' '~ ,;-.::-: 
""' 
~\ 
0

0~ t?'-1ii.>tl' ~0 


The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Michelle Marciniak (white) drives by a Stanford defender. The freshman has been averaging 13 points per game and will start against Georgia. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
Marciniak (13 ppg). Junior Coquese Washington (7.5 ppg, 6 apg, 5.7 steals) and sophomore Sherri Orlosky (7 ppg, 4.3 rpg) round out the Irish starting lineup. 
Off the bench, sophomores Kristin Knapp (3.5 ppg, 5.8 rpg), Tootie Jones (5 ppg, 4.3 rpg) and freshman Audrey Gomez (5.5 ppg, 4 apg) see the majority of playing time for the Irish. 
Poor shooting has plagued 
Notre Dame all season, however. No player is shooting as high as 50 percent. Among players with more than 10 field goal tries, Jones (.471} has the highest percentage. 
As a team, the Irish have not shot over 50 percent in a game through its first four contests, and for the year, have made less than 41 percent of their field goal attempts-including a dismal 1-for-22 (.045) from three-point range. 
However, Georgia also has not shot the ball well all year, making only 42 percent of its shots in its first three games. 


Andy's Cards 

Great Christmas Presents for the Family 
Colleae Qauics Reisman Set 1 -$16.95 20 card boxed set includes Lujact, Hart. Lattner. Huarte. Brown and Bertelli 
1933 National Champions Team Set -$29.95 60 card set includes Rocket's first card, Zorich, Lyght, Stonebreaker etc. 
Colleae Classics 22 card All American Sets-S9.9~ each tt I -Rockne Era #2 -Leahy Era 
"3 -Parseghian Era ,4 -Includes Montana 

1990 Colleaiate Collection 200 Card Set -$11.95 Premier edition of all time greats. Includes Gipp, Rockne, Montana, Moose. 
All orders will be mailed next day at Notre Dame Post Office so you have them for Christmas. References Available. Satisfaction guaranteed. Include ZS per order shipping and handling. Send orders to: 
Andy's Cards Box 161 
Notre Dame, IN 46 5 56 

Wrestlers head to Las Vegas Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame wrestling team heads to Las Vegas today for the 1991 Las Vegas Invitational. 
This tournament features some of the best collegiate wrestling talent in the nation. 
"Las Vegas is a great tournament where we can get a lot of experience for our younger guys," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "We're kind of banged up right now with injuries and illnesses, but we're looking forward to going there." 
McCann will not wrestle 150pounder Jamie Boyd and 177pounder J.J. McGrew due to rib injuries. Several other Irish wrestlers have been plagued by the flu recently. 
"I don't think I've ever seen anything like this," McCann said. "So, we're going to hold out some guys this week until they can get healthy. On the positive side, this will allow our inexperienced guys to get some quality time on the mat." 
The Las Vegas Invitational features many of the top wrestling teams in the nation, includiP..g several schools from the Big Eight. 
Last season, Big Eight powers 
Lorton 
continued from page 24 
ride at several Division I schools, including Southern Illinois, Miami of Ohio and Western Illinois. 
"I was always dead set on going to Saint Mary's," the Business Administration major stated, explaining her desire to attend Saint Mary's. "Saint Mary's is the right atmosphere for me, and I do not regret making this decision at all." 
1991-92 NOTRE DAME WRESTLING 
Dec. 6-';1 Dec.29 Jan. 3 Jan. 10 Jan. 11 Jan. 18 Jan. 24 Jan. 26 
Jan. 31 Feb.2 Feb.7 Feb. 16 Feb.21 Feb.22 Feb.26 Mar.7 

at Las Vegas Invitational 
at Cal-State Tournament 
at Oregon 
at Missouri 
at Nebraska 

NORTHERN ILLINOIS 
ILLINOIS STATE 

at National Catholic Meet, 
Dayton 
OHIO STATE 
at Illinois 
SYRACUSE 
at Michigan State 
OHIO 
at Indiana 
PURDUE 

at NCAA West Regional, Cedar 
Falls 

Mar. 19-21 at NCAA CharnpionshipJ 
Oklahoma City 
Oklahoma State and Iowa State finished one-two in the team standings. 
At last year's Las Vegas Invitational, Notre Dame finished 19th out of 44 teams. Marcus Gowens captured seventh place at 126 pounds and McGrew took eighth place at 177. 
Gowens came back from an 18-4 quarterfinal drubbing by second-seeded Dan Knight of Iowa State to win his seventhplace match 12-4. 
McGrew will be unable to improve on a surprising perfor-
Sue Medley, the Saint Mary's volleyball coaGh prior to incumbent coach Schroeder-Biek, also acted as Lorton's chemistry teacher at South Bend Saint Joseph's high school. 
Medley encouraged Lorton to play volleyball in college although Lorton herself was not confident she could take on the challenge. 
..During my freshman and sophomore year in high school, I did not take volleyball very seriously," Lorton said. "Even up until my junior year I wasn't interested in playing in college 
: .. 
. : 
Happy I8th Birthday 
Am~Paro We Love You! Nicole  Camel Toe  
Usa  and  
Laurie  Brady  Sue  

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
 

TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION Be COUNSELING LSAT  GMAT  GRE  MCAT 
SOUTH BEND  2731866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10:00 
a.m. 

10:00 
a.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 

10:00 
a.m. 


7:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 2:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 9:00a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 
The Observer!Brenaan R an 

mance from a year ago. Then a freshman, the native Oklahoman reached the quarterfinals against eventual champion Matt Johnson of Iowa State. 
Trailing 3-2, McGrew scored an apparent takedown, which would have given him the win. However, the official ruled that time had expired before the takedown occurred. 
The freshman was unable to recover from this disappointment, and lost his consolation seventh-place match 3-2 to Oklahoma's Kyle Scrimgeour. 
because I did not think I was that good." 
Lorton then began to play more volleyball during the ofTseason, which improved her game greatly. During her senior year in high school, her team won their sectional title and a major tournament in Lafayette, Indiana. 
At Saint Mary's, Lorton is one out of two juniors on a team with no seniors. As co-captain, she is looked up to as well as being a well-respected member of the team. 
"What makes Karen a good player and a team leader is her overall personality and her love for the game," stated Schroeder-Biek...She works hard in practice. She is very coachable. The other team members really look up to her." 
Lorton admits that she had higher expectations for herself for this season. 
..1 had an incredible jump in statistics from freshman to sophomore year and the goals I set for myself were not reached," she stated...1 wanted to average five kills a game and have a 50 percent hitting average." 
The top-ranked player for hitting percentage in Division III, however, accomplished .497 percent. 
Lorton humbly explains that she desires to be more consistent and improve her blocking. Her teammates, however, look to her as an outstanding player as well as a great player. 
"Her attitude is very positive," stated sophomore cocaptain Michelle Martino. "She is a good presence on the court; she gives off the feeling of being in charge." 
..Karen is a great team player. She possesses natural leadership in everything she does. On the whole she is an outstanding player," praised sophomore Mary Wheeler, who transferred to Saint Mary's from Nazareth College in the fall of 1991. 
Lorton, finally, has high hopes for next season. 
..We had some inexperience on our team this year, but on the whole our program has made incredible progress," said Lorton. 

-------~-------------------------------------- 
page 22 The Observer Friday, December 6, 1991 
Burns quits Minnesota; Holtz to stay with Irish 
Lou inks five
year contract 
with Notre Dame 

l ~ 
... 
Observer Staff Report 
Lou Holtz silenced the rumors Thursday by signing a five-year contract to stay on as coach of the Fighting Irish until at least 1996. 
Notre Dame Executive Vice

1. 
I I President William Beauchamp ' announced Holtz's new contract Thursday. 
"We've indicated to Lou Holtz all along that we are very comfortable with our arrangement with him," Beauchamp said. "But he and we wanted to underscore his plan to remain at Notre Dame. We determined that the best way to do that was with this contract. 
"The University has been extremely pleased with the leadership Lou has provided the football program both on and off the field. His record at Notre Dame speaks awfully well for his abilities. We're particularly happy his experiences here have been such that he wishes to continue as coach." 
Holtz has been adamant about staying at Notre Dame throughout the season, but Wednesday's resignation of Minnesota Vikings head coach Jerry Burns returned Holtz's name to the headlines and rumor bins. 
'Tve indicated at every opportunity my intention is to remain at Notre Dame as long as the University wishes me to serve as football coach. I have no intention of coaching anywhere else," said Holtz. "I have tremendous respect for the University, its athletic program and what it stands for-and I'm excited about continuing my relationship here." 


According to Notre Dame Sports Information Director 

.::: 

t 
Sugar Bowl 

504  246  2400 or
Tickets Available 

1贩BOO  348  2299 

Lou Holtz 

John Heisler, the announcement was not timed to dispell the rumors. It was a concern, however, that prospective recruits were. unsure whether Holtz would remain at Notre Dame during their four years. 
"This is a big recruiting weekend for us," Heisler said. "We didn't want to go through another year of that." 
Holtz will lead the Irish against Florida in the USF&G Sugar Bowl on January 1 in New Orleans-making him only coach in the country to take teams to traditional January 1 bowl games each of the last five years. 
The 54-year-old Follansbee, 
W. Va., native compiled a 55-17 record (.764) in his six seasons at Notre Dame and an overall mark of 171-82-5 (.672) in 22 years as a collegeiate head coach. 
His tenure with the Irish includes a 12-0 season and consensus national championship in 1988, a Notre Dame record 23-game unbeaten streak spanning 1988 and '89, as well as 25 combined weeks as the number-one team in the Associated Press poll. 
That glossy record has been accomplished while the Irish have played what the NCAA has rated the most difficult schedule in the nation between 1986 and 1990. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
... . . 
 Nevv<C>rleal'"ls  ... << Sugar BoVyl 
.JW~$185. CDAYS贩 5 NIGHTS With Continental Breakfast, Champagne Reception, Seafood Hofd':oeuvres and a Riverboat Paddle Cruise. . 贩  << . $165 5 DAYS 贩4NIGHTS  . With ContinehtafBreakfast, Champagne Reception, Seafood Hor d'oeuvres and aRiverboat Paddle Cruise. 
. . ..... . .............. . """$145 4 DAYS - 3 NIGHTS  With Continental Breakfast, Champagne Reception, and Seafood .......... . . Hor d' oeuvres 
............ 贩$125. 3 DAYS~ 2 NIGHTS 
...... WiUlCon1inental Breakfast, Champagne Reception, and Seafo  Hor. d'oeuvres. 贩   
.lper person, double occupancy only. $10 for< each "".......u Tax. ~on.@ 
elude 

. . .
贩┓贩... 贩贩贩 
For reservations Call 
Minnesota interested in, plans to speak to NO coach 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. (AP)The Minnesota Vikings confirmed that Jerry Burns will retire as head coach at the end of this season and said they will speak to Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz about the position. 
"Jerry and I had a meeting this morning, and he related to me his desire to step down at the end of the season," team president Roger Headrick said Wednesday. 
Burns had indicated in recent weeks that he would not return. 
"After a period of time, I just decided that I'd had enough of coaching," Burns said in a statement released by the team. "I've known for some time that I would not return and decided today that now was the time to clarify my position and let people know of my decision." 
The Vikings, who are 6-7, play at Tampa Bay Sunday and 

JERRY BURNS' CAREER HEAD COACHING RECORD 
YEAR  w  L  T  PCT.  
1986  9  7  0  .563  
1987*  8  7  0  .533  
1988  11  5  0  .688  
1989  10  6  0  .625  
1990  6  10  0  .375  
1991  6  7  0  .462  
TOTAL  50  42  0  .543  
,. 0-3during strike of regular roster players 


after that host the Los Angeles Burns' sixth year as the Rams and Green Bay Packers. Vikings' head coach would be 
Headrick told the Star Trihis last. bune that he would speak to "I know he kind of hinted that Holtz about the position, but he he might retire at the end of provided no details. last year," linebacker Mike 
Holtz, who coached at the Merriweather said. "But it's University of Minnesota in 1984 kind of sad that he's not going and 1985, said last month that to hang around anymore." 
he wouldn't coach anywhere 4-----------~ 
but Notre Dame. Thursday,  
Holtz signed a new five-year contract with the Fighting Irish. 
"I love Notre Dame," he said last month. "I want to finish out my coaching career here, whether that's a year, or two years or five years. I don't plan on coaching any place else and you can put that sucker in granite." 
Burns, 64, told the team before Wednesday's practice, but the news was not much of a surprise. Many players felt before the start of the season that 


PAST VIKINGS HEAD COACHES 
COACH  w  L  T  PCT.  
Norm VanBrocklin  29  51  4  .369  
Harry Peter uBudn Grant  168  108  5  .607  
LesSteckel  3  13  0  .188  

Source: Minneapolis Star Tribune The Observer/Brendan Regan 
. .
<</ ). >< ... 


AT AlAR'S 
Now that you've danced 

the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azars. 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
 Five Fluffy Omelettes 
 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 


 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you.rre not quite to call it a night, head to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 

Restaurant for the all
new LATE NITE memr. It'll tame the 
Munchies. 
Af"l~ 
BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 



Friday, December 6, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
THE FAR SIDE CALVIN AND HOBBES
GARY LARSON BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER , 
JAY HOSLER 





Of course, prehistoric neighborhoods always had that one family whose front yard was strewn with old mammoth remains. 
CROSSWORD 

1 Cancels a space flight 7 Barnyard fowl 

12 Ending for stereo 
13 Gomer Pyle, for one 
14 Short rifle 
15 Metrical foot 
17 Prefix: ear 
18 63-Across, for one 
20 r.tiss ~1idler 
21 One of a 1 i tter 
23 Mortise's mate 
25 Window part
26 Mr. Howe 28 Go swiftly 
30 -Blanc 31 Al Unser's sport 33 Inveigles 35 -lamp 37 Work door-to-door 38 Gridiron play 
41 Closed 
45 Science room 
46 Celebrate 48 Low land 
51 Ship's crane 14 Kitchen utensi 1 53 Comfortable 16 William 54 Sheds 19 As soon as 56 Split 22 Contaminate 58 Harem room 24 Studying need 59 CB radio word 27 Show scorn 61 Gives power to 29 Mah-jongg 63 First name in opera pieces 64 Remedy 32 Stabbed 
65 Prefix: skin 34 Lobster's limbs 66 Ship sections 36 Jazzman Fats 38 !-lorked hard DOWN 39 City in Texas 
40 Pants maker 1 Kitchen utensil 42 Cosmetics substance 2 Like some smokers 43 Slippery ones 3 Loot 44 French painter 4 Part of BTU 45 Body part 5 Intelligence test 47 Body parts 
pioneer 50 Brenda 6 Play parts 52 Doctrine 7 Slangy jail 55 -milk 8 Mecca man 57 Neck part 9 Plumber's concern 60 Business course 
10 Formerly (abbr.) 11 Maker of chocQlate 62 Musical segment 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
' 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "Monsieur Hire." Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Home Alone." Cushing Auditorium. 
8:10 p.m. Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol." Performed by residents of Flanner and Siegfried Halls. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Flanner and Siegfried Halls. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Baked Pollack Sesame Vegetable Rice Casserole Swedish Meatballs w/Mushroom Sauce Pork Tenderloin Saute 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Ragout Burgandy Chicken Fajitas Baked Fish Dijonaise Deli Bar 


.... 
Sports 



The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Karen Lorton (left) talks strategy with Mary Wheeler (center) and Belle's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek (right). 
Louisville dumps Notre Dame in thriller, 84-81 

page 24 Friday, December 6, 1991 
Lorton inspires Belles' volleyball 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE she is ranked fourth as of OcSports Writer 
tober 27). She is second only to her 
The Saint Mary's volleyball coach, Julie Schroeder-Biek, in program has produced many several other categories. talented athletes over the years, Schroeder-Biek was a Saint and this year is no exception. Mary's player from 1982-'86. 
The Observer pick for the Lorton has made significant Saint Mary's volleyball Player of contributions in 70 games, the Year is junior captain Karen racking up 253 kills, 482 total Lorton. attacks, 115 solo blocks and 7 6 
The talented native of South block assists. Bend holds three Saint Mary's Saint Mary's does not provide records: Number of kills, numscholarship money for their ber of attempts, and career solo student athletes, yet Lorton de
blocks. Karen Lorton cided on Saint Mary's-even In addition, Lorton, the 6-two seasons among Division III though she was offered a full foot-2 middle hitter, has been players in kills per game with a nationally ranked for the past .448 percentage (this season see LORTON/page 21 
Sullivan's 21
Irish fall in a close affair 
~ 
By RICH KURZ They got the ball to midcourt 2nd-half points Associate Sports Editor and called time with six seconds left. Taylor inbounded the key Cardinals The Irish men's basketball ball to Bennett, who made a 
By RENE FERRAN

team was seeing red last night, move and put up a shot under 
Associate Sports Editor

and it wasn't just because of heavy pressure from long Louisville's brightly-colored range. The attempt hit the rim 
Elmer Bennett and Daimon
uniforms. and fell short. 

Sweet provided the one-two
Notre Dame was 0-2 going "The play was set up (for me) 
punch for Notre Dame last
into the game and coming off a to come off a backscreen from night.  tough road loss to the Indiana Malik," said Bennett. "I was But for the second year in aHoosiers. They wanted to supposed to be at the top of the row, Louisville's Everick Sullichange that around on their key, (but) they set two guys up 
van provided the knockout
home floor. there and denied, pushing me blows in a Cardinal victory overAnd until the final buzzer, out (away from the basket)." 
the Irish.

they had the chance to do it. From the beginning of the Last season, the 6-foot-5 seNotre Dame, playing inspired game, it didn't look like the nior hit two key three-pointersbasketball, led the Cardinals Cardinals would be in much of 
down the stretch to help
until 14:51 remained in the a position to do anything. The Louisville defeat Notre Dame game, and never fell out of Irish jumped to a 5-0 lead be65-59 at Freedom Hall. 
striking distance, with a couple hind a Bennett three-pointer This season, Sullivan scoredof chances to win or send the and a Sweet jumper. 
21 second-half points to lead 
game into overtime in the final For Notre Dame, that would 
the Cardinals back from a
moments. be the story of the night, as seven-point halftime deficit toTrailing by 82-79 with 56 Bennett scored a game-high 27 an 84-81 victory over the Irishseconds left to play, Irish point points, followed by Sweet with at the Joyce ACC.
guard Elmer Bennett hit a dou25. 

"We were concerned about
ble-clutch lay-up over Cardinal The Irish advantage was in 
him coming in," said Notre
star Everick Sullivan to draw the six-to-eight point range for 
Dame coach John MacLeod.
Notre Dame to within a point. most of the half, but the mo"We tried to go out after him,Louisville went into a delay mentum made it seem greater 
but he kept backing up and 
game and was able to run the than that. After Louisville went making them. He looked like heclock down to : 13 before Malik on a six-point run to take a 
was shooting from the third
Russell fouled Cornelius Holden two-point lead with 7:20 to go row."
to stop the clock. in the half, Notre Dame did He wasn't out that far, but onMuch to the delight of a noisy them a couple steps better. 
his last three-pointer, he simply Irish student section, Holden Bennett scored six points and 
pulled up from 22 feet and
missed both shots. UnfortuLaPhonso Ellis had a monster buried a three as he and Sweetnately, Notre Dame couldn't get dunk off an alley-oop pass from played a game of one-upsmana hold of the rebound. Holden Sweet during a 12-1 Irish run, ship for a two-minute stretch in
grabbed it and got another holding the Cards without a 
the second half. 

chance at the line after being field goal for over five minutes. 
First, Sullivan missed a threefouled by Keith Tower. The Cardinals pulled to within from the right wing. LaPhonso"(He) missed those two free seven at the half, but more imEllis grabbed the rebound andthrows and then we got the reportant than that, the stage was threw a long pass to Sweet forbound and they fouled him set for Notre Dame trouble in an easy lay-up. 
again. I've seen that happen to the second half. The Irish big Sullivan came back, drove thehim before and he usually men were in foul trouble, as Ellane, and after Malik Russellmakes the second two. (But) lis had two and Tower was on 
committed the foul, sank two
sometimes you don't get the the bench with three. 

free throws to build the lead
second two," said Louisville Sullivan, who was a no-show back to six, 70-64. 
coach Denny Crum. in the first half, came out and Sweet hit for three from theHolden didn't fail the Cardiearned his keep for the Carditop of the circle to cut the marnals. He hit both free throws, nals in the second half. The 6-5 gin back to three, but Sullivangiving Louisville an 84-81 lead senior scored 21 points in the 
answered back with another
with 10 ticks of the clock left. second half to spark Louisville, The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz But the Irish weren't dead just LaPhonso Ellis slams home an acrobatic dunk against Bayreuth. Ellis yet. see LOUISVILLE/page 18 notched eight points, five boards and three blocks against Louisville. see B-BALL!page 18 
Women's basketball team to face Georgia Bulldogs 
By RENE FERRAN The defending SEC regular Georgia coach Andy Landers, in starters are sophomores Debohalftime lead. Associate Sports Editor season champions are led by his 13th year in Athens. "I want rah Carter (9. 7 ppg, 4. 7 rpg) Notre Dame is led by senior junior Vicky Jones, a 6-foot juher to pick up more points and Vera Jardim (4.0 ppg, 4.0 Margaret Nowlin. The 6-foot-1 
The Notre Dame women's nior who is averaging 12 points (Hardmon has averaged 11.9 rpg). center is averaging 17 ppg and basketball team (1-3) makes its and shooting 52 percent from ppg in her first three years at Cosby and freshman Dorothy 7.5 rpg, and has been the leadfirst-ever trip to Athens, Ga., the field. Five-foot-1 0 guard Georgia), but I want them to Sanders (4.7 ppg) play key roles ing scorer for the Irish in three this weekend, meeting Georgia Lady Hardmon, the only senior come within the framework of off the Bulldog bench. of their four games. (0-3) on Sunday at 2 p.m. on the Bulldog squad, averages our offense." For Notre Dame, Sunday's Two other ND players average 
The Bulldogs started the sea11.7 points and 5.3 assists per The Bulldogs' leading regame is the second of a threein double figures: Senior son ranked fourth in the pregame. bounders are a pair of sixgame road trip that began last Comalita Haysbert (13.3 ppg, season AP poll, but consecutive footers, freshmen Tara Cosby weekend in West Lafayette, Ind. 6.8 rpg), who led the Irish losses to fifth-ranked Stanford, 'Td like to see her (Hardmon) (8. 7 ppg, 8. 7 rpg) and Medina There, the Irish lost to 17thagainst Purdue with 17 points, Wisconsin-Green Bay and Ohio assume more responsibility on Turner (8.3 ppg, 8.3 rpg). Along ranked Purdue 80-66, as the and freshman Michelle State have dropped them to the offensive end of the floor with Jones, Hardmon and Boilermakers pulled away in 24th in the latest rankings. and around the boards," said Turner, the other Georgia the second half from a six-point 
see HOOPS/page 21 




