------------~--------------­

1842 1992 Sl SQUIC! Nil NNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 66 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Manier talks on Burtchaell case 
By PETER LOFTUS icy needs to be re-written so board comprised of responsible Assistant News Editor that it guarantees due process members who would guarantee of law and equal protection," confidentiality. 
A longtinw Notre Dame phi­said Manier in an interview A clause in the sexual ha­losophy professor altribl!ted Wodnesday. The Faculty Hand­rassment policy, found on page partial blamn to thn University book is a faculty version of ND 48 of the Faculty Handbook:, for both tlw inadequacy of the students' Du Lac. ensures confidentiality of a case sexual harussnwnl policy found Manior was quick to avoid so long as it does not impede in llw current Faculty Hand­diseussion of the "personality or upon the legal investigation. hook and the eounseling condi­the behavior of the accused and Manier believes the University tions under which ND theology the accusers." He limited his has irresponsibly used the professor Father .James discussion to criticism of both confidentiality clause. BurtchaPII's allegrd sexual mis­the sexual harassment policy "These principles of confiden­conduct occurred. and the conditions which led to tiality are construed to elimi­
Edward Manior, who has the alleged misconduct. nate important rights-the right taught philosophy at ND for 32 Manier, who said he knows to an attorney and the right to years, said that the Faculty Burtchaell, saw Burtchaell's confront the accuser," said Handbook's guidelines for in­resignation as the result of an Manier. vestigation of sexual harass­infringement of traditional val­Manier believes that the pol­nwnt charg11s do not conform to ues upon modern aspects of icy should restrict a person's modern notions of domocralic democratic society, most no­ability to make a "third-party dun process of law. tably due process of law. allegation." A third-party alle­
lin also said that the Univer­"We've got to work harder on gation impedes on the accused's sity needs to makn a distinction the right mix of NO's traditional right to confront the accuser, he bntwoen professional counsel­values and modern due said. ing provided by the University process," said Manier. Manier, having known Counseling C~>nter and unpro­Manier cited several impor­Burtchaell since he came to ND, fessional counseling provided tant elements of due process guessed that, ironically, by untrairwd advisers. not found in the Faculty Hand­Burtchaell would not agree with 
Burtchaell. a ND theology book's sexual harassment pol­his thoughts on the conflict profnssor and a Holy Cross icy: between traditional values and priest, resignnd Monday aftrr •the right of the accused to modern due process. alt.~gations of sexual harass­confront his or her accusers; "Burtchaell's a very nice guy. nwnl of male students he was •the right of the accused to Everybody says he's brilliant," counsding were madr public employ an attorney in his or her said Manier. "But I don't think hy tlw National Catholic He­defense, he's thought through this rela­porlPr. •the right of the accused to 
"Tlw sexual harassmnnt pol-appeal his or her decision to a see BURTCHAELUpage5 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
Who turned out the lights? 
Tom Blicher, the JACC sound and ligh~ing engineer, checks the lighting in preparation for the football banquet. 
ND security does not consider date rape as an attack 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
l>alf' rape is not eonsiden~d to ·1w an attack by Notre Dame S•H~urity's definition, according to l>i n~ctor of Security Hex Hakow. 
"EvPry limn we havo an at­lark on campus, we make a re­IPasn on it," he said. Allegations of acquaintance rap•~ are not madP public, Iw added. 
Hakow addrnssed the issur of sPxual harassrnm1t at a forum sponson~d yesterday by Campus AlliancP for Hape Elimination. 
"We're not saying it isn't a serious crime, but it sparks a ditTerent response," he said. "It is not something that is going to threaten the safety level of the campus community." 
Although all reports of sexual assault received by campus se­curity are immediately reported to The Observer, the policy dif­fers with cases of acquaintance rape. Security puts out infor­mation about assaults so that someone does not put them­selves into a position to be vic­timized, Hakow explained. 
"We have not found it neces­sary in the case in which the victim knows the assailant," said Rakow. However, Security does take reports of acquain­tance rape just as seriously as reports of attack rape, he in­sisted. 
"Hape is rape no matter what," said Ann Yolk, a coun­sellor from the Sexual Offense Services (SOS) and another member of the panel. "We need to acknowledge that all sex of­fenses are serious and that both acquaintance rape and assault rapes are attacks." 
Theft of a bookbag from the dining hall is considered serious enough to be reported in The Observer, noted one member of the audience. Even without mentioning names, reports of an alleged date rape would alert students that this problem does exist at Notre Dame, the student continued. 
In assault cases, Security sends a bulletin to every dorm and notifies The Observer in an attempt to stave off rumors, Hakow said. "If we have an as­sault that is left untended, ru­mors take over the campus," he said. 
Policy procedures regarding the reporting of sexual assault are outlined in du Lac and in the faculty handbook. In eases involving students and faculty, for example, student com­plaints should be filed with the Provost's office. 
"If a student agrees to regis­ter a formal complaint, then we will present the faculty person with the facts submitted by the student," said Sister Kathleen Cannon, Associate Provost. Student confidentiality is strictly 
see SEX/page ~ 


McCarthy says democratic party needs improvement 
By DAVID KINNEY in disarray and President Ge­Associate News Editor orge Bush is highly vulnerable, McCarthy said. as the resigna­
Democrats must confront the tion of Chief of Staff John Su­institutional, foreign policy and nunu indicates. The party and, domestic problems of the Bush the president must be recon­administration if it is to regain ciled, and Bush must avoid the control of the executive office, appearance of taking both sides according to Eugene McCarthy, of many issues. Democratic presidential candi­McCarthy, former senator of date. Minnesota, criticized Bush for 
The Democratic Party, Mc­allowing the corruption of the Carthy said, is adrift. Although institutions of government and the candidates are addressing fostering the personalization of some of the areas in which the presidency. "He has demon­Bush is failing, they are not at­strated disdain for the Consti­tacking the most important is­tution and the traditions of sues and have not developed a government," he said. good alternative platform. Bush has shown a willingness 
"If the Democrats try to just to amend the Constitution in second-guess the Hepublicans, I order to deal with moral issues think that they'd have trouble -such as abortion and prayer winning," he said. "It's not in school -that should really enough to say 'we'll give you be addressed by the courts, ac­more unemployment benefits or cording to McCarthy. He has ... more food supplements' or shown disregard for the princi­
Elizabeth Pawlicki, Ann Volk and Rex Rakow discuss sexual harassment last night. According to Rakow, ND 'we'll be more sympathetic to ple of separation of powers by Security does not classify date rape as an attack. 
you.'" 
see MCCARTHY/pageS
The Republican Party is also 


page 2 Thursday, December 5, 1991
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Money is better spent than saved 
The day after Thanksgiving was the biggest shopping day of the year. 
Many of the customers coming into Casual Corner while I was working were enticed into the store by the additional 25 per cent off sale merchandise· signs and bought outfits on a whim. I'd lie in wait behind a gondo, stalking the customer who was "just looking," and watch them pick up tank tops, shorts, and summer dresses. 
I knew what they were thinking because they almost always tried to rationalize their purchases to me. "I'll be able to wear this swimsuit next season, then I won't have to pay full price." Yeah, right. This year's bargain item is next year's fashion fossil. 
Then there are those who splurge on that sequined mini that you can't sit down in. They ·ustify their purchases by saying they plan to spend an evening posing. Why do people need excuses? Are they even being frivolous? 
I don't think so. Spend till it hurts. There are too many advantages to spending money. To get you in this shopping mode, I need to prime your vocabulary. Substitute "need" for "want" in every case, and never use "excuse"-it's "reason." 
By not saving your money, you are helping the economy. It is no secret that the U.S. is in financial trouble and we could be heading toward another Depression. Investing money in stocks and bonds or just letting it sit in the bank does nothing to keep our economy going. By spending as liberally as possible, jobs will be created to keep up with the supply and demand. 
Second, spending feels good. My job is not· necessarily to seli clothes, but to make people happy. Isn't that what everyone lives for? A customer who walks in the store and leaves empty-handed feels exactly the same as when she came in. On the other hand, when she leaves with a bag, she is happy. No one has ever spit at me over the counter after I took her money and said, "I hate you for taking my money. I hate you for selling me that sweater I could die for." 
Third, you will be popular with your family and friends. Everyone loves a big spender. Cab drivers will open your door for you. Waiters will give you the best table. Salespeople working on commission will treat you better than Julia Roberts in "Pretty Woman." 
Fourth, saving money accomplishes nothing. You cannot sleep on a bed ()f bills. Don't you ever feel the need to jump out the window when you're in a really high building? Well, when you're given a ten-dollar bill, doesn't it "ust scream at you, "Spend me!" and you can't wait to get rid of it? Surrender. It's useless to resist. 
Money is circular. As surely as a dollar bill leaves your hand, it will soon find you again. If your mom· chastises you for not being able to save money, tell her you're helping the economy. (She will never understand the other reasons, though they are equally valid.) Say, "Mom, I am a crusader in the battle to save us from economic disaster. Because of people like me, you will be able to live comfortably in your old age. And just wait till you see what I bought you for Christmas." 
It is the thought that counts. The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Lauren Aquino  Kathy Fong  
Steve Zavestoski  Cheryl Moser  
Business  Sports  
Colleen Gannon  Rich Kurtz  
Andy Runkle  Viewpoint  
Cheryl Moser  Rich Riley  
Systems  Scoreboard  
Mike Murphy  Steve Szabo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and .vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST:
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. Cloudy but warmer today. Highs in the low 20s with a 70 percent chance of light snow. 

TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 39 34 Atlanta 71 33 Be~in 36 23 Boston 43 29 Calgary 09 05 Chicago 30 04 Dallas-Ft. Worth 53 29 Denver 42 16 Honolulu 84 74 Houston 57 31 ndianapolis 37 07 London 44 43 Los Angeles 76 53 Miami Beach 82 76 New Orleans 58 43 New York 48 40 Paris 34 32 Philadelphia 56 36 Rome 59 37 San Diego 79 57 San Francisco 79 48 Seattle 51 43 South Bend 32 10 
PriiSSUre 
f,~,~l ~ rn t..>j fxxx)
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
:;· ·::· :·:·: :·::::.. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Paris thieves grab plates 
• PARIS -A gang of thieves driving expensive cars pushed aside a: security guard to steal porcelain plates worth $5,500 hanging from a Christmas sign erected by Limoges. The theft occurred Tuesday night on the chic Avenue George V, where the famed porcelain maker set up a street-level billboard Monday that read "Merry Christmas In Limoges." 15 people pushed aside the lone guard and removed 100 of the 260 plates.The porcelain makers have hired additional guards and decided to remove the sign nightly. 


NATIONAL 
Earthauakes shake California 
• SAN DIEGO -Two moderate earthquakes an hour apart shook Southern California Tuesday night. No damage or injuries were immediately reported. One quake registered 4.0 on the Richter scale and rattled San Bernardino Cqunty just after midnight; the other quake, measured at 4.2, struck San Diego County late Tuesday. A 5.3-magnitude quake centered in Baja California, Mexico, rattled San Diego on Tuesday morning. 


OF INTEREST 
•Aiasdalr 
Macintyre will discuss the topic "Why does the Catholic University need philosophy?" at the FRIDAY FORUM from 12:15 until 1 p. m. Friday, December 6, in the Multipurpose Room of the CSC. All are welcome. 

•urban 
Plunge participants who missed the Nov. 24th Orientation must attend the make-up meeting tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 6:30-8:30 p.m. 

•seniors 
may sign up for invitational interviews-now through Wednesday, December 11th at Career and Place­ment Services-for the frrst_two weeks of Spring Semester. 

•The 
GSU International Potluck Dinner will be held on December 6th, at 5 p.m. before the GSU party at Wilson Commons. Bring your favorite international dish. For more information, contact Tony Hazbun at 239-8412. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ December 4 
VOLUME IN:SHARES NYSEINDEX 230,231,250 210.13 
.42 COMPOSITE 
380.70 .89 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,911.67 • 17.89 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {7 $ 1.60 to $365.10/oz. 
.2¢ to $4.004/oz. 


§  -I)  ~  £)  Tokyo Washington, D.C.  61 55  48 38  
ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
,•;··:· .::::.  . }··  ·::.  f:~:;.,  

Qua~le wants kidnappers punished 
• ClEVELAND -.Vice President Dan Quayle said today the terrorists who took American hostages in Le­banon should be punished if possible. "Obviously, if there is any way to prosecute or to get to the kidnappers, so be it," Quayle said yesterday at a Cleveland medical research clinic. He was reacting to reports that Terry Anderson was released yesterday. ''I'm thankful the American hostages are now out. They should never have been taken hostage in the first place," he said. "Let us rejoice in the freedom of these hostages, and let them be with their families once again. 

'N~ht Court' may say "good night" 
•EW 
YORK -John Larroquette, the slightly smarmy prosecutor of NBC's "Night Court," thinks this may be the show's final season. But then, he notes, "I said that last year. And the year before." That, he said, was because for the last two years the acting contracts were on a year-to-year basis. But the show, now in its ninth season, keeps getting renewed, and one never knows: "It still produces enough (Nielsen) numbers to make it viable." 

•Resident 
Assistant applications for 1992-93 are now available in the Office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Administration Building through January 17th, 1992. 

•New 
Worlds-Technosciences is now open to all students. The DART listing is 0130 HIST 397:01 , 3 cred­its, TH 1:15-2:30. 

•The 
St. Joseph County CASA Program will be conducting a training for new volunteers beginning January 13th through February 15th. A Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) is a trained, community volun­teer appointed by the court to advocate for the best inter­est of a child who is the subject of judicial action under the Indiana Juvenile Code as abused and/or neglected. For more information please call Gloria or Barb 284­9231. 


Thursday, December 5, 1991 The Observer page 3 



Conversion of Pangborn upsets residents SAB plans 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
The announcement of the University's decision to convert Pangborn Hall to a female resi­dence hall next academic year has upset some Pangborn resi­dents, according to Father Wil­fred Borden, rector. 
Borden met with Student Af­fairs late Tuesday afternoon and afterwards held a meeting with several resident assistants and llall President Mark Woodmansee. 
Later that afternoon he met with Pangborn residents and announced the news. The meet­ing started out in good spirits, but became somber when Bor­den made the announcement, according to Les Stark, a Pangborn junior. 
Woodmansee said he was not surprised at the announcement but was disappointed in the way the University handled the matter. "They never asked us why our dorm is special. They made the decision by numbers not by looking at the quality and the spirit l!lf the dorm," he said. 
"There was never any warn­ing -it was all rumors. I couldn't get a confirmation anywhere." Woodmansee said that at least 500 people have asked him about the rumors this year. 
Woodmansee said that the of­ficers of the University should have announced the conversion a year before implementation and phased out freshmen as they did with Holy Cross. 
William Kirk, assistant vice­president for Residence Life. said the announcement came so latn because they were waiting for the decision of the Univer­sity officers. 
"It was primarily a numerical decision," he said. "There will be a seven percent change in the number of female students next year and we had to find the dorm that best fit that change." 
There were many different factors to be considered and the ollicers decided that Pangborn was the best dorm to convert, 

The Observer/David Hungellng 

This sign outside Pangborn Hall reveals one of the many changes that will have to take place to accommo­
date females in the formerly male dorm. 
according to Kirk. 
"Hopefully the shock will set­tle and the students will be able to deal with the decision," said Kirk. He would not comment on why the announcement was not made a year ahead, but he said "if we had been able to make it easier for the freshmen, we would have. Logistically that wasn't possible.". 
Kirk and Patricia O'Hara, vice-president for Student Af­fairs, will meet with the Pang-born residents tonight to dis­cuss future accommodations for the men. He expects that they will be able to accommodate all existing residents who wish to remain on campus by placing them in other male dorms. He could give no details before meeting with the Pangborn residents. 
Several Pangborn residents expressed d~app~ntment with the decision and the way in which the residents were noti­fie d. "I think that Patricia O'Hara handled it badly," said 
Stark. 
"On the other hand, I think that Father Borden handled it excellently," he continued. "We have a great deal of respect for him and the other two priests in our dorm. They explained it well." 
"1 feel as if they are breaking up our little Notre Dame family 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
t 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.s & M.D.s 


SOUTH BEND 273-1866 
which they encouraged us to have," said junior Mike Ciampa who has decided to move off campus next year as a result of the decision. "It's disappointing, we'll have no roots to go back to next year." 
Cia,mpa said he is extremely disappointed for the freshmen class in Pangborn. "They should have planned it out over the summer. I think it was a mistake," he said. 
Pangborn freshman Jose Torres said, "I am pretty upset because I had to readjust to a new environment when I got here. Now I will have to go to another dorm next year and meet new people and readjust again." 
Several juniors who had planned to become resident as­sistants next year are unhappy about the conversion. "I don't and be an R.A.," Chris Uhas said. "I have put a lot of time into this dorm. I was looking forward to being an R.A. along with other Pangborn juniors." 
Uhas expressed the feeling of closeness among .the Pangborn residents. "There will be no more dorm sports, or dances," he said. 
He stressed that Pangborn residents not be bitter towards the University. "I don't want to see us debase ourselves." The dorm residents will vent frus­trations this spring through various dorm activities. 
festival for Mardi Gras 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Spring semester activity ideas and the results of recent activi­ties dominated the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board meet­ing Wednesday. 
l'he board discussed the main events being planned for next semester in addition to the suc­cess of recent events, according to vice president of student af­fairs Meg McGowan. 
She said that recent activities such as the lecture on the Kennedy assassination and the Board-sponsored Chicago bus trip were huge successes and added that plans are underway for College-wide events for next semester. 
"Right now we're just plan­ning the Mardi Gras festival," she said. 
Mardi Gras will be Feb. 27 and will include casino games, a Dixieland band, and Mardi Gras food to be served by the Snack Bar, she said. 
Future plans for this year also include an entertainer, said McGowan. 
"I'm working on getting a performer for next semester," she said. 
Also on the agenda for next 
!w~a~n~t~t~o~g~o~i~n~to~a~n~o~t~h~e~r~d~o~r~m~~N~ot~r~e~D~a~m~e~."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s 
"We just have to go with the semester is a poster sale set for inevitable," said Borden, who is Jan. 20, 21, and 22 and a also uncertain of where he will "welcome back" in the Coffee­live next year. "I want the stu­house for students returning dents to do the best they can from studying abroad, Mc­and to get on with their years at Gowan said. 
eX 
continued from page 1 
maintained, she added. 
If the Provost's office hears many complaints about a fac­ulty member, Cannon said that she would be "inclined" to ad­dress that with the faculty per­son. However, anonymous charges are not really fair, she said. 
Cannon states that she knows nothing about the situation having to do-with the recent resignation of Father Burtchaell. 
"I think the policy that we have for dealing with these sit­uations is very good and very comprehensive," said Cannon. "There is a women's committee looking at putting in some mid­dle steps in the procedure," she added. 

This would entail the install­ment of some sort of mid­dleperson who would be avail­able to describe alternatives to students, she said. In cases in­volving only students, Residence Life staff acts as this mid­dleperson. 
"When a victim comes to Residence Life, I present her with her options," said Eliza­beth Pawlicki, Director of Resi­dence Life. "Victims have a choice as to how to proceed, if at all." 
Pawlicki encourages all vic­tims to seek medical attention, and counselling, and that con­fidentiality is strictly observed. She also lets them know about their legal alternatives. 
Victims can proceed with a criminal investigation, they can operate through the campus system, or they can do both. If they choose to work with cam­pus authorities only, they will have a hearing with three members of the Residence Life staff and with the alleged as­sailant. 
_"Four women have chosen to proceed within the Notre Dame adjudication process during the past four years," Pawlicki said. She estimated that six to ten people come to talk to her every year, however. 
In the cases in which there was enough evidence to support the victim's allegations. the as­sailant was permanently ex­pelled, she said. In each of those cases, the University was subsequently sued, she said. 
There must be enough evi­dence to show that the alleged assailant had no grounds .to assume the consent of the vic­tim, she said. If the victim was crying, or was obviously in pain during the sexual encounter then this would indicate that they did not willingly partici­pate, Pawlicki said. 
"She didn't have to kick and scream or run for the phone," said Pawlicki. "She doesn't have to show us bruises. We are talking about trauma on a different level." 
The women has no burden to establish her character, Pawlicki said. The central issue is not character, but whether or not there is enough evidence to prove that on a certain date and time, this event occurred, she added. 
"All the character witnesses in the world do not make any difference for either of the parties involved," according to Pawlicki. "You could be a great person, but if the evidence shows that you raped someone, you are gone." 
~-­
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, December 5, 1991 

Child development examined on TV Cheney delays action on 
Special to The Observer 
A University of Notre Dame Alumni Association television program that examines the emotional and educational de­velopment of preschoolers will be locally rebroadcast twice in coming weeks. 
''I'm Me and I'm Special: Your Preschooler's Start to a Happy Life" will be shown Sun­day, Dec. 8, from 8 to 9:30 p.m. on WNIT, the PBS affiliate in Michiana. 
The program also will be televised Monday, Dec. 16, from 9 to 10:30 p.m. on Heritage Ca­blevision's Channel 31. 
Produced by Alumni Continu­ing Education, the program features a panel discussion fo­cusing on issues such as self­esteem, discipline, standards for success and the learning environment. 
Panelists include: Terri Kosik,, the director of early childhood development at Saint Mary's College; Ruth Warren, a member of the National Council on Self-Esteem; and Thomas V. Morris, an associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and 1990 Indiana teacher of the year. The moderator is Mike Collins of WNDU-TV. 
Originating from the Notre Dame campus, the program first aired Nov. 17 via satellite and on cable systems nation­wide. It is the first in a three­part series on parenting that will include programs on ele­mentary schoolchildren March 8 and on teenagers in Novem­ber 1992. 
For information on the pur­chase of videotaped recordings of the telecasts, call Alumni Continuing Education at (219) 239-6186. 

Chestnuts roasting on an open fire 
Erik Christensen and Chris Boyle, Flanner Hall freshmen, study for finals in front of their fireplace. 

open female pilot positions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­fense Secretary Dick Cheney's decision to put off opening combat pilot slots to females for at least a year is "an insult to women," Rep. Patricia Schroeder said today. 
The Colorado Democrat, a supporter of the recently-ap­proved legislation to repeal the ban on female combat pilots, called Cheney's move "just one more dodge, one more duck" in avoiding congressional moves to offer additional opportunities to female members of the military. 
"Its an insult to women," Schroeder told a group of re­porters. 
The congresswoman, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, criticized Cheney's move to put off any action until after a presidential panel studies the issue. 
"This is certainly not what we intended," Schroeder said. "It's sounds so reasonable.... But we could fill a room with studies on women in the military." 
Although Congress has re­pealed the ban on women flying combat missions for the Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force, their move into warplane cock­pits appears to be more than a year away. 
Cheney isn't expected to seek "any substantial change" for the female pilots until a presi­dential commission issues its findings late next year, Pen­tagon spokesman Pete Williams said Tuesday. 
"I don't anticipate any changes until that commission has done its work," Williams told reporters. He said Cheney had not been able to study the exact wording of the law re­pealing the ban and said the defense chief hadn't made a formal decision yet. 
But he added: "My hunch is, is that the commission will be impaneled, and it will go through its entire work before there is any substantial change."' 
The legislation that repeals the decades-old ban on female combat pilots in the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps is be­fore President Bush, who is ex­pected to sign it in the next few days. 
Women in those branches of the armed services were barred from serving in combat posi­tions under the 1948 Combat Exclusion Act. 
But given widespread public support for the role female pi­lots played in the Persian Gulf War, Congress approved new legislation late last month to lift the restrictions. 
However, that change doesn't mean women will be assigned to such high-risk duty anytime soon. 
While the law opens the way for female pilots to be assigned to units that might enter com­bat -such as fighter jet squadrons or air wings aboard aircraft carriers -it doesn't require they be put there. 


SMC raises 
. 


money 1n phonathon 
Special to the Observer 
More than $46,000 in new pledge money was raised dur­ing Saint Mary's College fall Phonathon in support of the in­stitution's Annual Fund, held during the weeks of Nov. 4 and 11. 
One hundred forty-eight stu­dent volunteers participated in this event. More than 3,700 alumnae, parents, and friends 
·~ 

riod, generating 1,782 new pledges and a total of $46, 358 in new pledge money. 
The Annual Fund provides unrestricted financial support to the College. Since unre­stricted contributions are not designated for any specific program or project, they may be directed toward the areas of greatest need. 
The total goal for this year's Annual Fund at Saint Mary's is $1.4 million. 
The second portion of thi year's Phonathon activity take place Feb. 3-13. Partici­pants accumulating a minimum of 10 hours of calling time be­tween the first and second semester Phonathon events will be eligible for the grand prize of two round trip airfares good anywhere in the continental United States, courtesy of Travelmore and Anierican Air­lines. A host of other prizes will be offered as well. 
All Saint Mary's community members are invited to take part in the Phonathon. For 
more information, contact the : 
Happy 21st, Jim! 

**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
**** 

**** LOVE Mom, Dad &John
**** 

· ·· ·• 
Christmas 
at the 
Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
GREAT GIFT IDEAS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF 
SHffiTS SWEATERS JACKETS UMBRELLAS CAPS BALLS Featuring Notre Dame logos 
Students & Staff Enjoy a 10% discount through December 20 
Holiday Hours 
Monday -Friday 9:00am -4:00pm 
~:~ ~:~ ~:~ ~': 
Annual Fund Office at 284-Dil'lf'l~-~liaD.li~lBJ9.!!itS!J.I~~.~~
4706. 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 
*** 

See what Dave Broome does tonight 
*** 
*** 

now that he's finally 21 !!!!
*** 
*** 
*** 

Cesar
*** 


Thursday, December 5, 1991 
Court hears arguments on hate crimes ordinance 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Ban­ning "hate crimes" such as cross-burning -as reprehen­sible as they may be -imper­missibly violates the right to frne expression, the Supreme Court was told Wednesday. 
"Political discourse involves outrageousness," lawyer Ed­ward Cleary said in urging the eourt to overturn a St. Paul, Minn., ordinance that bars dis­playing a burning eross, Nazi swastika or other offensive symbol. 
But Hamsey County, Minn .. Attornny Tom Foley defended the ordinance. saying the gov­ernmlmt has a compelling in­tnrest in preserving public safnty. 
"The First Amendment was never intended to protect an in­dividual who burns a cross in the middle of the night in a fenced yard of an African American family's home," Foley said. 
The act "is an unmistakable threat," he said. 
Cleary represents a youth who was arrnsted in June 1990 on charges he burned two makeshift crosses in a black family's yard. 
Such an aet is "reprehensible and abhorrent" but the youth eould be prosecuted under 


Burtchaell 
continued from page 1 
tionship between traditional values and modern rights." 
In a printed statement titled "Key Issues in the Burtchaell Affair," Manier compared the Catholic Church to the Mafia and to Soviet V.I. Lenin's totali­tarian statn. "The Church is run like the 'mob,"' he said. 
"Some of us do not regard tnrms such as 'due process' and 'nqual protection of the laws' as unw11leome modernist intru­sions into th11 life of traditional institutions." Manier wrote in the stat11ment. 
Mani1lr asked whether Uni­versity rules are "fairly and equitably enforced throughout the community." Manier sug­gested that a Iloly Cross priest, bneause of his order's affiliation with the Church, might possibly be given more breaks than a other laws, Cleary said. The youth, who was 17 at the time of his arrest, was identified as 
R.A.V. in court papers. 
In the St. Paul ordinance, "we have a government signaling its disagreement with a particular type of opinion," he said. If it were upheld, another city could adopt one making it illegal to display a Star of David if it of­fended another person, Cleary said. 
The ordinance says that dis­playing a burning cross or other symbol is illegal if it "arouses anger, alarm or resentment in others on the basis of race, color, creed, religion or gender." The maximum penalty is 90 days in jail and a $500 line. 
Under questioning from Jus­tice Antonln Scalia, Foley said the ordinance likely would not cover a case in which a person burned a cross on the lawn of someone who was mentally ill. 
In other words, bias against the mentally ill is "the wrong kind of bias" under the ordi­nance, Scalia said, adding: "It seems to me like the rankest manner of content-based dis­crimination." 
student or lay faculty member who has committed the same offense. 
He also questioned the pro­priety of the conditions under which Burtchaell's alleged mis­conduct occurred-counseling. 
"ND must clarify the distinc­tion of the professional status of the University Counseling Center and the free-lance, un­trained, unsupervised, unli­censed and uncertified 'advising' some of us feel qual­ified to provide because we... have received Holy Orders," said Manier. 
Burtchaell's alleged victims were students he was either currently counseling or had counseled in the past. 
"Families and friends of les­bians and gays at NO will nec­essarily lind themselves totally unsympathetic with a religious order which protects its mem­bers first, and their relatives and friends last," said Manier, concluding his written state­ment. 

Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
The Observer 
page 5 




The Observer/David Hungeling 
Snow tires 
These bicycles were found covered in snow and frozen to the bicycle racks between Pangborn and Fisher Halls following Tuesday night's snowfall. 


McCarthy 
continued from page 1 
overusing veto power and at­tempting to silence the Senate, particularly on the Middle East issue. 
Even his selection of Dan Quayle for vice president indi­cates his attempt to increase the power of the presidency. "It's pretty hard to disdain the vice presidency, but he's done it," McCarthy added. 
He criticized the Democratic candidates for failing to con­front Bush on this institutional corruption. 
McCarthy said that although Bush has the image of being a good foreign policy president, he has failed to handle affairs outside of the country well. 
"If you commit 500,000 peo­ple to kill estimates of two-to­300,000 people," he said, "it ought to result in some signifi­cant change or stabilization." The Gulf War, however, has not had this kind of reordering ef­fect. . 
"It isn't something you do on a weekend and come away and say 'we've done our job,"' Mc­Carthy added. 
Bush had no real foreign pol­icy record, he said, until he be­came a presidential candidate. Moreover, his supposed qualifi­cations in the area -positions as Central Intelligence director, a United Nations representative and vice president under Presi­dent Ronald Reagan -are re­ally detriments to his ability to operate an effective foreign policy. 
Although McCarthy believes that the Democratic candidates should attack the president's handling of foreign affairs, he acknowledged that no candi­date has a solid record on for­eign matters. . 
The senator emphasized that Democratic candidates must avoid campaigning on the prin­ciple that the federal govern­ment can be run like a state government. "They're all play­ing around the edges with gimmicky proposals," he said, and this will not be successful in the long-run. · 
He cited three major domestic issues that must be addressed by any Democratic presidential candidate: 
• 
Unemployment, he said, is an institutional problem that cannot be solved by increasing benefits or government em­ployment. What is needed is a "change in the conception of the right to work." 

To curtail unemployment, McCarthy said, working hours must be redistributed from the workers to the unemployed by shortening working days, years or lifetimes. 

• 
The government must deal with eliminating the $4 trillion public debt ($40,000 for each 


taxpayer). The debt is "dead weight" that hangs over every­thing the government wants to do, McCarthy said. 
"The Democrats should pro­pose a program which will sig­nificantly reduce the debt al­most immediately," he said. He suggests a capital levy on the wealthy, who were not asked to pay for government operation while the debt was accumulat­ing. 
• The United States must deal with its lack of competition with Japan and Germany and seek a balance of payments. Although the disparity in the balance of payments is often attributed to technological failure on the part of the nation, McCarthy cited the fact that we have been carrying the cost of these countries' defense, even after their economies were stable and growing. 
Japan and Germany should be required to help pay, and the senator suggests that the U.S. apply an import defense duty to meet past and present costs. 
McCarthy said that he hopes to establish some popular re­sponse to these issues by par­ticipating in seven or eight pri­maries. 
According to McCarthy, the Democratic Party needs a can­didate that addresses all of these issues and provides good alternative programs. This kind of candidate, he said, has yet to emerge. 

Please Recycle when Finished 

I!~
:f'lut. EXPIRES 12·20·91 
ONE LARGE PEPPERONI PIZZA 
FOR $6.99 PLUS TAX CALL 232-2499 FOR DELIVERY 
Must Show N.D. or S.M.C. 10. 

·-------~----------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1991 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

'Tis the season 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students perform as part of the Madrigal Choir in a performance last night. 




Yale TAs stage one-day strike 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP)­Hundreds of graduate teaching assistants at Yale University staged a one-day strike today and were joined on the picket lines by more than 1,000 mem­bers of two university unions. 
The job action led to the can­cellation of dozens of under­graduate classes taught by graduate teaching assistants and to the closing of some din­ing halls, but a university spokeswoman, Martha Matzke, said it was still "mainly busi­ness as usual." 
The Graduate Employee and Student Organization, a group representing about half of Yale's approximately 2,200 resident graduate students, struck over the university's re­fusal to give the group union status. 
Members of two unions rep­resenting about 3,600 Yale em­ployees, including maintenance personnel, custodians, clerical and food service workers, joined the walkout in support of the graduate student group. They said they were also demonstrating for a better con­tract for themselves. 
The unions are currently ne­gotiating with Yale for a new contract. Their current contract .expires next month. 
The Yale administration told union members they would have their pay docked if they joined the strike. 
Because the protest was peaceful, Matzke said the uni­versity did not intend on taking more severe action, such as fir­ing workers engaged in what Yale said was an illegal work stoppage. 

Picket lines went up this morning at, about a dozen loca­tions around the Yale campus, including the Hall of Graduate Studies, where about 200 demonstrators marched. 
Graduate students and mem­bers of the two unions chanted "two-four-six-eight, Yale is a cheapskate." 
"We're here today because we are fighting for our rights and for a better contract, and be­cause we want to support the graduate students," said Marion Britt, a custodian. 
The administration has re­peatedly said that it will not recognize the union because it views graduate students as scholars in training rather than as employees. 
Bush helps by signing new bill 
BWASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Wednesday signed legislation further enlarging for some states the unemployment benefits that were expanded just last month. 
The additional measure was worked out by Congress and congressional leaders after several senators protested that their states were getting short­shrift in the unemployment benefits bill that became law Nov. 15. 
The bill gives extra weeks of benefits to people in 23 states and adds about 200,000 jobless Americans to the newly ex­panded coverage. 
The legislation also includes provisions in several other ar­eas, including easing trade re­lations with Hungary and Czechoslovakia, so Bush can extend permanent favored trading status to them. It also cleared the way for Bush 'to give that preferential trading status to the newly independent Baltic 
states of Lithuania, Estonia and 
DEc AM PIs T R. s0 F T A M 0 R A L p R E T 0 R I ArINK~~ REs 1 o EN r E G G• LAME N r s•G A r 
• R E D T 0 A D s SlO L E
B A s E R A o s B o N E R A r r R A c r s coN­
~~ ~ ~ M E ~ ~ ~ ! ~ ~ c o L 1 o s s A o c A R E v A R E1A s A L I c s I R • s I N • o M I r lr~· r A G 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
R E N E • E s E R E wE o s 
The bill also eases import du­ties for Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to encourage those countries to crack down on cocaine production. 
Further, the legislation lifts the prohibition on imports of gold coins from the Soviet Union. That, Bush said in a written statement, "should help the Soviet Union and the re­publics earn hard currency." 
The earlier unemployment bill Bush approved was a $5.3 billion package to give further jobless benefits to people who have used up the 26 weeks they were allowed under the old law. The bill he signed Wednesday improves on that to give all el­igible people 13 extra weeks, instead of only six weeks that would have been extentled to those in 23 states. 
The Labor Department said the new bill makes 200,000 more people eligible to receive expanded benefits. 
Bush had fought Democratic efforts since last summer to expand the benefits for the unemployed..But as the econ­omy remained sluggish and Bush came under attack by Democrats for alleged insensi­tivity to the plight of the jobless, he agreed to the expanded benefits. 

Last American hostage returns home Wednesday 
New York (AP) -Terry An­derson's family sounded a joy­ous outburst Wednesday from suburban New York to the Sierra Nevada foothills and the lakelands of western Kentucky when it became clear that the last American hostage in Le­banon had been freed. 
An early-morning blur of un­restrained jubilation gave way to a day fraught with anxiety. a final roller-coaster ride be­tween elation and exasperation before the journalist's where­abouts finally became known. 
"Oh God, Terry. you're all right. Great!" exclaimed a cousin, Rusty Ruth, of Grass Valley, Calif., as she watched Anderson chat with reporters on television in Damascus, the Syrian capital. 
"I can't believe it -it's true, it's true," echoed her daughter, Robyn. 
"He looks pale, he looks lighter, but more importantly he looks like a free man. This feels sweet," said Tom Anderson, tears running down his face. Pictures of his cousin nestled among the Christmas decorations around his home in Valley Stream, N.Y. 
In Batavia, N.Y., where An­derson grew up, churches planned to peal their bells in unison Wednesday night and residents gathered for a thanksgiving service and a party. A rally was planned in his birthplace of Lorain, Ohio. 
Anderson, 44, the chief Mid­dle East correspondent for The Associated Press, was kid­napped March 16, 1985. He was the longest held of 16 Americans taken captive since March 1984 and, after 2,455 days, the last to be let go. Three of those Americans were slain by their c·aptors. 
Smiling broadly and looking healthy, he appeared publicly for the first time. 
"You can't imagine how glad I am to see you," an emotional Anderson told fellow reporters. 
His release was first reported by Iran's state-run news agency around 3 a.m. EST, but con­flicting reports abounded be­fore he was turned over more than 11 hours later to the U.S. ambassador in Syria. 
Until that time, the strain had mounted. ­"We're sitting tight, waiting 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
!:.ffX{fl!V14/V':b $MCJCJU$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully located on the St. Joseph River ~ 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-

1671 Riverside Drive ­
233-2212 
and hoping. To me, it's like an­
other form of terrorism, the 
teasing," said Eileen Motter, a 
cousin from Marietta, Ga. 
"Isn't that exasperating? 
These guys are playing out the 
string to the last excruciating 
moment?" said Jack Shelly, a 
retired professor of broadcast 
journalism at Iowa State Uni­
versity, who was Anderson's 
academic adviser. 
Peggy Say, one of Anderson's 
four siblings -his father Glenn 
and brother Glenn Jr. died dur­
ing his captivity -awaited 
their reunion at the U.S. mili­
tary hospital in Wiesbaden, 
Germany, where freed U.S. 
hostages are routinely taken. 
She has traveled the world 
campaigning for his release. 
"He looked tremendous," Say 
said, adding that President 
Bush had called her to say "he 
had the greatest respect for 
what I had done." 
Anderson's brother, John An­
derson, told CNN from his home 
in Ocala, Fla., that "the only 
thing I want to do now is walk 
up to my brother and give him 
a great big hug and tell him 
welcome home." 
"He looked healthy and happy 
and free at last," he said. 
Judy Walker, another sister, 
said in Cadiz, Ky., that reports 
that cast doubt on Anderson's 
release "tried my patience a 
little more, but isn't that the 
way this whole thing has 
been?" 
Say also lives in the western 
Kentucky town, where yellow 
ribbons flutter from houses, 
schools, churches and cars. 
Ruth triumphantly held aloft the bracelet she's been wearing for six years. "Tonight we took the shackles off because Terry's taken his shackles off," said Ruth, who energetically campaigned on his behalf. 


Sununer ded 
IIelp .Nee rica 
. l~Anlf
111 Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work • Share 
• Live • Learn 

You can have a summer full of adventure and personal growth whole improving health for the people of Latin America.. 
Write or call: 
Amigos de las Americas 
5618 Star Ln. Houston, TX 77057 
1-800-231-7796 
Campus Contact: 
Jennifer Babula 283-2665 




-71~ 

Application deal.ine: March 1, 1992 Incentives available for early commitment 
.,.... -· ...... .. . . .
-~. 

Fl D •. 7 D
ower e IverY.: ays
@Need A SpringBreak?~ ~@'SY ,.. ~:atP"A
Treat Younelf To A '¥ \....J BarefootBahamas Spring Break Super Saver Prices on Roses I Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience ~
I I -~ Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Calll.S00-359-9808 Today "'"' Clocktower Square . 1219i\ 277 1291
WS1400 31 North \; 'J • 
b~:~:~:~ES:~::s:::s::s::s:::s::s::s:::s::s::s:::s::s::s:::s::s:::::::::::::::::::::u:::u:::u:s::::::d ~uth Bend, IN 46637 P._. AIIWWid !4lara. 


Thursday, December 5, 1991 

Pearl Harbor scrutinized but key issues avoided 
TOKYO (AP) -Japanese are marking the 50th anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack with painstaking reports that re­count World War II from almost ~~very coneeivable angle but skirt the issue of responsibility for the eonfiict. 
Japan's television networks have produeed about 20 spedal documentary programs for broadcast ahead of and during this wneknnd 's anniversary of the raid. Nnwspapers and magazines also are running speeial reports. 
Most aecounts portray the war as something that just happened. The issue of respon­sibility for the military regime that led Japan into war and its dm:isions is left unspoken. 
"Tlwre's far too little reflec­tion on the damage we eaused to non-Japanese and too much moaning about our own in­juries," said Kentaro Araya, a professor of history at Tokyo's Hikyo University. 
"The Women's Pacific War," a historieal drama broadcast Tuesday evening, focused on a mother and her 15-year-old daughter, Akiko, who doesn't understand why her parents are dismayt~d by the Pearl Har­bor attack. 
The mother's efforts to keep lwr children out of the lighting are daslwd when lwr elder son publieizes his patriotic desire to di1~ for his eountry. 
"lie's my son. lie doesn't have to becomn a god." she weeps. Later he is killml in action. 
Tlw networks already have hroad1:ast a variety of heart­wrnnehing reports on the war. ineluding interviews with fornwr Indonesian and Dutch prisoners-of-war and reports from old battlegrounds in Southeast Asia. 
During tlw past year, former Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu and Emperor Akihito have of­f,•rHd expressions of regret for Japan's aggression, in part to allay Asian fears that a gov­Prnment proposal to send peac1~k1~eping troops abroad would !Pad to resurgent mili­tarism. 
To mark the Pearl Harbor 
anniversary, Japan's Parliament 
is also planning a resolution of 
regret for the eountry's wartime 
aggression. But sources said 
Wednesday that there will be no 
direet apology for the attack on 
the U.S. base. 
As the anniversary ap­proaches -Saturday in the United States and Sunday in Japan -the number of special programs on the war has grown. And the Thursday night movie on Television Tokyo is a natural: the 1970 U.S.-Japan epic on the Pearl !!arbor attack, "Tor a, Tor a, Tor a." 
Most documentaries promise "scoops" gleaned from histori­cal archives, feeding on their viewers' seemingly insatiable appetite for detail. 
On Wednesday night, the quasi-governmental Japan Broadcasting Corp. broadcast a documentary made in collab­oration with ABC: "Pearl Har­bor: Two Hours That Changed the World." 
American viewers will see the same program: documentary footage and photos from both sides, interviews -including President Bush and Prime Min­ister Kiichi Miyazawa -and personal accounts from letters that portray the diplomatic, military and historieal impact of the Pearl Harbor attaek. 
Another joint effort, between CBS and the Tokyo Broadcast­ing System, "The Trap of His­tory: Japan and America Fought 50 Years Ago." tackles the question of whether the two countries could ever fight an­other war. 
"History can never be re­peated, but it often appears as if it could. Japan-U.S. economic friction can be viewed as simi­lar to the situation of the two countries 50 years ago," TBS says of the three-hour special to be broadcast here Sunday. 
Asahi newspaper reporter Shinichi Yoshida wrote that "this inability to consign Pearl Harbor to history" was a result of economic friction and a sense 


The Observer 

A little R' and R' 
Prisoner released after 1 7 years 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) -The Louisiana Pardon Board on Wednesday recommended commutation of the life sen­tence for a black man who has served 17 years for a racially­charged killing he says he didn't commit. 
If approved by Gov. Buddy Hoemer, Gary Tyler would im­mediately be eligible for parole. Tyler, now 32, claimed he was framed in the killing of a 13­year-old white boy during racial violence at a small-town school in 1974. 
A witness who implicated him at his trial later recanted, and defense lawyers have raised questions about physical evi­dence. 
Efforts to gain Tyler's release were made around the country and in Europe. 
Tyler was in the midst of a heated confrontation over the desegregation of schools in De­strehan, a Mississippi River town 25 miles north of New Or­leans. 
State police in riot gear were patrolling the streets of the town, as were members of the Ku Klux Klan. led by David Duke, now a maverick Republi­can presidential candidate. 
As whites surrounded a bus of black students. shouting and hurling bottles, cans and rocks. a shot was fired from the bus, killing Timothy Weber as he 

page 7 

The Observer/Sen Farnan 
Juniors Randy Scianna and Todd Stoker find shelter from the cold while playing video games. 
his claims that he is innocent. 
"He's been found guilty of first-degree murder and con­victed beyond a reasonable doubt," said Kathleen Petersen of the attorney general's office. "In all this time, he hasn't once called the victim's family," she said. "He can't be truly rehabil­itated unless he admits what he's done." 
Leah Weber, Timothy's mother, appealed to the board to keep Tyler behind bars. 
"I was there when it hap­pened," she said. "I can't see my child at Christmas. I have to put flowers on his mausoleum." 
The Pardon Board recom­mended in January 1990 that Tyler be made eligible for pa­role in five years. The board's three black members voted for leniency; its two white members voted no. 
Hoerner refused the recom­mendation, even after reeeiving petitions with more than 12,000 signatures from The Committe!~ to Free Gary Tyler. Amnesty International chapters in England and West Germany wrote in his support. 
Howell provided the board Wednesday with new petitions with over 17,000 names, including support from New Orleans musicians -the Neville Brothers and the jazz artists of the Marsellis family. 
It was a revival of the support 

Tyler has enjoyed since his conviction. In 1976, protest marches and rallies were held in Detroit, Pittsburgh, Boston. New York, Chicago and other cities. 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL occ 
1(8110) 148--1133 Barker,._,. 

stood by his mother across the schoolyard. 
A jury originally sentenced Tyler to death, but that was commuted to life in prison with no chance for release when the 
U.S. Supreme Court struck down the state's death penalty law. 
The conviction has withstood repeated appeals, although a federal appeals court at one time found enough evidence to say Tyler was prevented from getting a fair trial. 
"We're obviously pleased with the outcome and we're espe­cially glad that it was unani­mous," said Tyler's attorney Mary I lowell. "We maintain that Gary Tyler is an innocent person, denied a fair trial in an atmosphere of racial dishar­mony." 
Howell said Hoemer has until Jan. 13, when he leaves office, to act on the recommendation. After that, the decision is transferred to Gov.-elect Edwin Edwards. 
During a hearing, Bowell said Tyler should be pardoned and is ready to re-enter society. 
"He has demonstrated he's a man deserving of clemency," he said. "He's done everything this board has asked him to do." 
But a prosecutor said Tyler should remain in prison, despite 
-~ 

page 8 The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1991 


Professionals praise new AIDS related law 
ATLANTA (AP) -Health professionals Wednesday praised the U.S. Centers for Disease Control for abandoning plans to list procedures that AIDS-infected doctors shouldn't perform. They said the move puts the agency on sounder scientific ground. 
Bowing to criticism from health professionals, the agency is proposing general recommendations and case­by-case decisions. 
"I think this is clearly a positive step, a move away from federally mandated hysteria," said Benjamin Schatz, director of a national program for HIV-positive health care workers sponsored by the American Association of Physicians for Human Rights. 
"Major medical policy deci­sions should be based on the best and most sound scientific information that's available at the time, so we find this deci­sion by the CDC to be accept­able," said Linn Meyer, a 
spokeswoman  for  the  
American  College  of  
Surgeons.  

Dr. James Curran, head of the CDC's AIDS task force, said Tuesday the organization was taking a different approach with the latest version of the guidelines, which haven't been made public. 
Under the proposals, each case involving invasive proce­dures would be evaluated to determine whether an infected health care worker could safely perform the procedure, Curran said. 
"What we're doing is saying invasive procedures need to be considered in the context of the person who's providing them, their skill and technique, in addition to the procedure itself," Curran said. 
Curran didn't specify who would make the case-by-case evaluations under the new guidelines. The draft still could be revised, so it won't be made public until the various reviews are completed, CDC spokeswoman Anne Sims said Wednesday. 
The CDC recommended in July that all doctors and dentists be tested for AIDS 
IAMERICAN ~CANCER 
fSOCETYe 
TAKING THE RONKIN LSAT COURSE SHOULD BE A LAW. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
10 Students Per Class 40 Hours Of Live Instruction Live Tutorial National800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
ED UCIll 0Ill G~ 0u•
•
SOUTH BEND 
273-1866 
and that those found to be infected refrain from "exposure-prone" procedures except with the consent of the patient and outside experts. 
That proposal came after it was learned that a dentist in Fort Pierce, Fla., had infected five patients with the HIV virus. Those infe~tions are the only known cases of doctor­to-patient transmission of the AIDS virus. 
Curran said the new proposal was a response to harsh criticism of the earlier recommendations from the nation's medical societies at a hearing last month. 
The CDC doesn't have regulatory powers, but health workers usually comply with its guidelines. 
The New York Times, which obtained a copy of the pro­posed guidelines, reported Wednesday that local commit­tees of experts would be asked to advise the infected workers. 
The committees would judge each case on the basis of the risk of the health worker's blood entering a patient, how well the health worker complies with infection-control procedures and whether the health worker's ability is impaired by the disease, the newspaper said. 
"This mirrors what hospitals were doing internally anyway," said Margaret Hardy, senior counsel for the American Hos­pital Association. 
Dr. Geraldine Morrow, president of the American Dental Association, said the CDC's proposal tracks her group's recommendations as well. 
"The ADA acknowledges that in certain circumstances, certain dental procedures may pose an identifiable risk," she said. "The key factor is that careful, universal precautions should be used for every patient treated by every health care provider. This is what protects the patient." 
Only the American Medical Association supported the earlier proposals, and then only for Caesarean deliveries. 
0 
~0 



New policy rejects scholarships awarded solely on racial basis 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Edu­cation Secretary Lamar Alexander today formally un­veiled a policy barring scholar­ships awarded solely on a racial basis, but said colleges could still grant financial aid to obtain racial and cultural diversity. 
"There are relatively few race-exclusive scholarships, those for which only persons of designated races may apply," said Alexander. "Not one stu­dent who now has a scholarship will lose that scholarship as a result of this ... That's an absolute promise we have made." 
The Education Department launched a review of race-spe­cific scholarships after a furor erupted over a department offi­cial's warning that colleges re­ceiving federal money could not offer scholarships directed to minorities. 
Alexander said scholarships can still be used to gain diver­sity in such areas as geographic origin, culture, economic background or race. He added that there will be a four-year transition period for colleges that may wish to adjust their financial aid program. 
Some educators expressed fears that the Bush administra­tion is "playing racial politics" with the new policy. 
"I think there is a conflict here between law and public policy," said Robert Rosen­zweig, president of the Associa­tion of American Universities. 
"The administration has a case for reading the law the way it appears to be reading it, but that produces bad public policy. I wish they hadn't chosen this moment in history to remedy whatever the defect is in the in­terpretation of the law." 
Cesar Trimble, acting presi­dent of the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, acknowledged that "in a severe recession, affirmative action is less popular." 
William Gray, the former House Democratic whip who now heads the United Negro College Fund said, "It's begin­ning to smell awfully political to me. It has the stench of Louisiana politics." He was re­ferring to former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, who ran as a Republican for governor of Louisiana. 
Gray pointed to a survey that showed less than 1 percent of all students enrolled in colleges and universities are beneficia­ries of minority-targeted schol­arships and only 3 percent of all minority students receive such scholarships. 
The survey was conducted in May by the American Council on Education and the National Association of Independent Col­leges and Universities. 
"I ask myself why is this (minority scholarship) being raised as if it is a significant is­sue where some white child is being denied a right to higher education when in fact the fig­ures show that is not the case," said Gray. 
"The only reason I can think of is for political reasons. It is unbecoming of the administra­tion but more importantly it is damaging to America by play­ing racial politics." 
But Richard Samp of the con­servative Washington Legal Foundation applauded the new policy. 
"A half a loaf is better than none and I think the Education Department is going in the right direction," said Samp. "The Constitution forbids all forms of racial discrimination. Eventually the issue will be de­cided by the courts." 
The new policy for colleges and universities that receive federal money apparently would not affect current schol­arships or those based on need, developed under court order or given by private groups or indi­viduals that do not receive fed­eral money. However, it would end a long-standing practice by colleges and universities of of­fering scholarships to encour­age enrollment of minorities at traditionally white institutions. 
Some details began trickling out Monday night, and Alexan­der was bombarded by ques­tions Tuesday on a speaking trip to Louisville, Ky. He as­sured educators at each stop that "no student will lose a scholarship under the princi­ples we are about to an­nounce." 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~ 
Come Christmas Shopping In Downtown CHICAGO 
When:  Sunday,  Dec. 8th  
Tix:  On sale Monday, Dec. 2nd-Friday, Dec. 6th in the Junior Class Office $6/ person -covers transportation  

Bus: 

NOTICE TO DECEMBER GRADUATES 
Have you borrowed $$$ to finance your Notre Dame education? If yes, you must follow these instructions. 
As part ofthe graduation process, federal regulations REQUIRE all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan P.rogr~m and the s.u~plem~ntal ~an f~r Students (SLS) to attend an EXIT INTERVIEW before leaving the Umversit~. The exit mterview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s) deferment options, and loan consolidation benefits. ' 
For your convenience, we have scheduled 4 exit interview· sessions: 
Thursday, December 5th LaFortune 3:00-3:30 pm 
Montgomery Theater 3:45-4:15 pm 
Main Floor 4:30-5:00 pm 
5:15-6:00 pm 
To pre~are fo~ the exit interview, bring the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borr?wm~ whi~e at Notre Dame. Ifyou need assistance gathering this information, contact the Notre Dame Office of Fmanc1al Aid. Please allow one day for processing. 
:a 
'i): 'i=­
:1!
'i 
I 
• .
I .. 







Business 
Thursday, December 5, 1991 page 9 
Government says economic recovery stumbling 
WASIIINGTON (APl -The United States struggled out of recession in the spring, but the reeovery weakened in the sum­mer and currently stumbles further. the government said Wednesday in reports indicating future troubles for the economy. 
The Department of Commerce reported that the gross domes­lie product (GDPJ. the total output of goods and services produced inside America's bor­ders, edged up at an anemic annual rate of 1.7 percent from .July through September. 
That was significantly below an earlier reported rate of 2.5 p1~reent for the quarter, reflect­ing the fact that consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of tho total economy, was weaker than previously estimated. 
In a separate report, the Fed­eral Heserve said a survey of business conditions around the country in October and Novem­ber "suggested flagging mo­mentum" with consumer spending, construction activity and factory production all suf­fering. 
President Bush pledged to put forward a "new action pro­gram" in his State of the Union address which he said would present to Congress a "common-sense set of economic reforms." 
Congress begins hearings last Thursday on a variety of tax cut measures as both Democrats and Hepublicans ready economic stimulus packages in advance of the 1992 presidential elections. 
"No one should be complacent about the sluggish economy or stubborn unemployment rate," the president said in a speech to the American Enterprise Institute. 
The administration continued to insist that the country has definitely emerged from the 1990-91 recession although they conceded that the recovery so far has been disappointing. 

"We think the economy is very slow, very sluggish," said presidential sp9kesman Marlin Fitzwater. "I think everybody understands that the economy has real problems." 
Private analysts were even more pessimistic, saying that after two quarters of sub-par growth, the country could very easily pitch back into a full­fledged recession during the current October-December pe­riod. 
"The economy is in worse shape than previously thought," said Lawrence Hunter, chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "The fact that the economy in the third quarter lost even the meager momentum it had built up since May points to a flat to negative fourth quarter." 
Wednesday's report marked the first time the government has emphasized the gross do­mestic product, after a half century of using the gross na­tional product (GNP) to gauge the nation's economic health. Most other major industrial countries use the GOP. 
The difference is that the GOP measures only goods an.d ser­vices produced inside U.S. bor­ders while the GNP also in­cluded profits that American companies earned from their overseas subsidiaries. 
Private economists have en­thusiastically supported the change from GNP to GOP, say­ing it will serve as a better guide to economic conditions inside the United States. 
Analysts said the new figures gave a more accurate reflection of how they believe the economy actually has performed since the recession began in July 1990. 
The report showed that the GOP expanded at a barely per­ceptible annual rate of 0.2 per­cent in the July-September quarter of 1990 followed by a drop of 3.9 percent in the final three months of last year, about twice the rate of plunge previously recorded by the old GNP figures. 
The economy continued to drop at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the first quarter of this year before posting a 1.4 percent GOP increase in the first quarter and the revised 1.7 percent gain in the third quarter. 
While the old GNP figures had shown three consecutive quar­ters of decline, the GDP showed only two negative quarters but with a steeper drop. 


Rudman says Cranston smeared Senate by accepting reprimand 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen.  This part of Cranston's de­ rule ... the entire committee  
Alan Cranston smeared "every  fense ­dubbed the "everybody  found that Sen. Cranston  
member" of the U.S. Senate  does it" defense by the commit­ received no personal benefit...  
when he accepted a reprimand  tee's special counsel-"smears  there was no quid pro quo."  
for his dealings with Charles  every member of this body and  The committee reported to  
Keating, said Sen. Warren  the institution as a whole,"  the Senate that Cranston's be­ 
Rudman, R-N.H., the vice  Rudman said.  havior was "improper and re­ 
chairman of the chamber's  Cranston did so "by citing the  pugnant" and accused him of  
Ethics Committee Wednesday.  unspecifie.d conduct of un­ "an impermissible pattern of  
Cranston's impassioned floor  named senators" who also as­ conduct in which fund raising  
speech Nov. 20, after the  sist constituents who contribute  and official activities were sub­ 
committee presented its find­ to their campaigns, Rudman  stantially linked."  
ings of improper conduct, was  said.  Cranston said he accepted the  
filled with "convoluted and  Keating, president of the col­ action "with deep remorse in  
misleading statements," said  lapsing Lincoln Savings and  my heart" but then spent nearly  
Rudman.  Loan, persuaded Cranston to  an hour denying the commit­ 
Hudman is the highest-rank­ plead his case with federal reg­ tee's charges and defending his  
ing Republican on the commit­ ulators. Keating also con­ conduct.  
tee of three GOP and three  tributed nearly $1 million to  Hudman said Cranston misled  
Democratic members. He spoke  Cranston's campaigns and po­ senators and when he asserted  
immediately after Cranston on  litical causes.  the committee's finding of im­ 
the Senate floor last month,  Harvard University law pro­ proper conduct were based only  
expressing his distaste for the  fessor Alan Dershowitz, who  on the proximity in time be­ 
California Democrat's defense.  represented Cranston on the  tween contributions and offieial  
On Wednesday, Rudman  Senate floor, said in response to  action.  
severely criticized Cranston's  Rudman that the committee  . The committee findings that  
assertion that he acted no dif­ "found that all the contributions  Cranston violated no law, Hud­ 
ferently from other senators  at issue were ... legal and  man said, "does not equate to a  
when he linked assistance to  proper."  finding that he was not moti­ 
Keating with receipt of political  "The committee also explicitly  vated by or did not link contri­ 
donations from him -espe­ found that the constituent ser­ butions, nor does it preclude  
cially the $850,000 donated to  vices performed by Sen.  the possibility of improper con­ 
three Cranston-backed voter  Cranston were legal and proper,  duct. Illegality is not the same  
registration groups.  and violated no law or Senate  as impropriety."  

Soviets will halt foreign debt payments 
President Yeltsin offers to pay significant portion of debt 
MOSCOW (APl -The Soviet The Soviet Union can defer at the debt run up by the former Union notified creditors least $3.6 billion in payments Communist regime. Wednesday that the country will on the principal of medium­Only republics that signed the halt payments on the principal and long-term foreign debts pact are eligible for debt relief. portion of its foreign debt for until at least March 31, under Volkov said the order to notify one year. an agreement signed last month creditors came from the Inter­
Hussian President Boris in Moscow by the Group of 7 Republican Economic Yeltsin, meanwhile, offered to officials and eight of the Soviet Committee, an interim body pay nearly two-thirds of the republics. that is managing the nation's country's $65 billion-$1 00 bil­After a review at that point, economy and consists of repre­lion debt to intflrnational len­the deferral probably will be sentatives from all 12 republics. dnrs. extended to the end of 1992, But Hussia wants to keep the 
Germany is the main holder providing that the republics Soviet Union's diamond reserve, of the Soviflt debt. Other coun­have implemented free market which already is under the tril~s owed substantial amounts economic reforms in coopera­republic's control. inelud11 France, Britain and tion with the International Italy. Monetary Fund. Ukraine and other repl)blics 
The Soviet Bank for Foreign The debt-relief plan by the G-reportedly have rejected this Economic Trade sent telexes to 7 nations gives the Soviet Union proposal. The dispute could foreign banks saying payments more time and money to make scuttle talks on sharing the debt on the principal would stop these reforms. The G-7 nations as well as gold, diamond and Thursday until Jan. 1. 1993, include France, Italy, Germany, currency reserves. said bank spokesman Sergei Canada, Japan, Britain and the Volkov. United States. Ukraine, which voted for in­
The bank will continue to The agreement included an dependence on Sunday, has not make interest payments, he option for up to $1 billion in yet signed the G-7 agreement. added. emergency financing if the loan Leonid Kravchuk, the newly 
While the Soviet Bank was is secured by gold. elected president of Ukraine, 
putting out the bad news. the By signing the agreement. the proposed last week that republics were wrangling over eight republics accepted collec­Ukraine pay 16 percent of the how to divide the debt. tive responsibility for repaying debt. 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, December 5, 1991 

---Ih--. e-0~~-~-~~er~-'~.&.--=Y~ . 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..........•..••..•..... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ..•.•............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•...•.. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ....•.•..... Jay Colucci Accent Editor ...•••...•......•... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ••••.•............... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •...••..••..Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper PlJblished by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Burtchaell case shows hypocrisy of ND Family 
The Notre Dame family. 
We as students are constantly reminded about the Notre Dame family by our parental administrators-in loco parentis, they call it-who look out for students' best !nterests, lay down the law and reprimand when they deem It necessary. 
But in the wake of the allegations of sexual misconduct by Father James Burtchaell, the children must ask their parents if the same light of scrutiny is ever shined upon themselves. 
In the Burtchaell case, it appears that the watchful eyes of our administrative parents were shut tightly. The University seems to have ignored the rumors completely, allowing student safety and trust to be jeopardized. 
At the latest, the University was aware of the Burtchaell situation last April. If that indeed is the case, there is no excuse for the failure to properly investigate and settle the matter before the start of the 1991-92 academic year. 
Still, rumors abound that our Notre Dame parents knew about Burtchaell's alleged wrongdoings long before, in the mid-1970s. 
If this is true, this absurd inaction of the administration proves that the University takes matters of punishment seriously only when the perpetrators are students. 
Obviously, when it's merely a matter of protecting students, the policing nature of the administration is not so tough. But who's policing the police? Who's monitoring the family that prides itself on trust, openness and equal treatment for all members? 
The University has said that it handled the Burtchaell matter to the best of its abilities and claim the case is closed. 
But it's not. 
The University needs to be held accountable. Students, faculty and members of the community deserve to know exactly when the allegations were made and what was done from the moment of discovery. 
Unfortunately, the administrative parents will probably never release such information. It violates confidentiality, 
Society needs a change in Victory March 
Dear Editor:  respect for all. The majority of  sports teams included. Because  
The letter by Erin O'Neill,  individuals do not take the time  gender is a part of every per­ 
(The Observer, Nov. 25) made  to think for themselves, but  Son's identity, I do not under­ 
the point that the proposal for a  simply go along with what is  stand the problem in changing  
politically correct version of the  accepted. In the ideal society  the school's victory march to  
Notre Dame Victory March "is  everyone would be respected  acknowledge both genders of  
detrimental to the cause of  regardless of gender or color,  the student body. I do not be­ 
women's equality."  but the reality remains that  lieve this is a petty detail.  
I never considered attempts  women and people of color  I feel strongly that Notre  
at awareness, such as the "Year  must work harder for this re­ Dame, prominent in the public  
of the Woman" as "demeaning."  spect:  eye, must stand against the  
Women have been treated as  Politically correct language is  force of tradition and recognize  
second-rate to men for so long  an absolute necessity in these  females in the University's vic­ 
that progressive moves must be  transition times when people  tory march. Not everyone  
made to educate both women  striving for equality are trying  would like to sing the victory  
and men. These  to overthrow the prejudices that  march with the clause "while  
misconceptions are still such a  still abound, even here at an  her loyal sons and daughters  
force in society that many well­ esteemed university. Not every  march on to victory" versus  
meaning individuals  individual is capable of "sensing  "while her loyal sons go  
inadvertently believe them.  tradition and moving forward  marching onward to victory."  
When one realizes the  with some sense of depth."  This would change the com­ 
number of women in past  We are not yet an intelligent  fortable, reliable tradition,  
centuries who could have  nor a completely aware society.  maybe even weaken the song.  
contributed in great ways to  This is why we must reach out  This is precisely why I believe  
humankind but were never  in an attempt to educate every  these changes must be made  
afforded the chance out of that  individual until we are capable  and must continue. Individuals  
society's negligence, one  of perceiving others as persons  of society need to learn from  
witnesses the damage of igno­ first, not categories.  childhood that we are all equal,  
rance. I do not desire to change  As for the traditional Notre  no one less worthy of respect or  
the works of the many men who  Dame Victory March, it is an  acknowledgement, and that we  
have contributed so greatly to  integral part of what most stu­ can live together proudly and  
humankind; I only propose we  dents here know as Notre  peacefully.  
study their works with  _Dame. It is not, however, re- Kiernan Cressy  
knowledge of their societies and  served for the football players  Pasquerilla West  
their values.  only. It is for the entire student  Nov. 27, 1991  
Society needs standards of  population, men's and women's  

Thought-provoking column deserves praise 
Dear Editor: Most students would opt for for my targets, but the picking 
I would like to express public the latter but rather than ask, is slim. thanks to R. Garr Schwartz for for example, "what are the Mr. Schwartz's column is a his Inside Column of Nov. 25 three ways in which opinion gold mine, particularly since he entitled "To believe in God is differs from religious belief?" I has a fine instinct pointing to death to life." I teach a course prefer to cite someone's the right questions to address. in philosophy of religion and am remarks and ask for a critique. If not eternally grateful, I will partial to exams which require I find some fair material in be so for the next few critical thinking rather than the professional philosophical semesters. disgorging of memorized and essays of the kind of confusion, Charles F. Weiher 

they argue. It goes against the Family policy. Some family. 
DOONESBURY 
50Me PEOPle rtt!V&' NO CONSIO­

1.1XJK AT THIS aDUJN.' 
£f?ATION, KNOW UJHAT I'M

[)RIVING 11//TH HIS 
SAYING~ I NCJT/ct; ITAWT 

13RJGH~ON-' 
MORe NOUJ THAT I'M A PROFe.%/ONAL.. PRIVCR ! 
I 

often partially material.  digested  illogical thinking and delightful ignorance that can serve well  Philosophy Dept. Nov. 25, 1991  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
'It you feel you have both feet planted on level ground then the university has failed you.'  

Robert F. Joheen 

Eight miles high? submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

------------------------~------------------­



Viewpoint
Thursday, December 5, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR • 

Changes necessary to improve graduate school 
courses, they receive signifi­They range from $8,000 a year two years. City University in cantly less fringe benefits than plus a full tuition scholarship, to New York pays its graduate either faculty or staff. If one $0 a year. There are some who students $15,000 a year, plus believes our contributions are perform research or serve as provides subsidized housing. similar to food service, janito­teacher's assistants for $4000 a only note these two examples rial staiT and lawn crews, then semester. There are also others because students in our de­we should be entitled to similar who teach 70 student sections partment received the above of­benefits. These staff members of Principles of Economics for fers from these schools last rightly receive access to a pen­only $2000 a semester. There year. sion plan, health insurance, are others for whom no In order for Notre Dame to paid vacations, tuition waivers, stipends are available. recruit and maintain the best sick leave, as well as a free This inequality fosters students, to undertake the best turkey for Christmas. unnecessary divisions among research and to gain prestige in 
A poignant example of graduate students. A depart­the educational community, it benefits which graduate ment characterized by cohesion must reduce income inequality students do not receive was and cooperation would be more among those performing com­brought to my attention when conducive to intellectual devel­parable work and in the process my wife recently left her opment and intellectual inquiry. offer students competitive university staff position. As a Increasing the equality of stipends. result of her termination, our stipends is a necessary first step These three changes alone family's health insurance costs in achieving this cooperation. will not transform Notre Dame rose from approximately $75 a However, it should not be into the most prestigious of re­month to $269 a month for the equalized at an uncompetitive search institutions. same coverage. Shouldn't average level. Nevertheless, they are a first graduate students have at least Compared to other institu­step in enabling the graduate equal access and equal tions of graduate economics school to recruit the finest subsidization to the staffs HMO education, Notre Dame's graduate students in the future, or its Blue Cross-Blue Shield stipends are already uncompet­as well as enhancing the quality coverage? itive. For example the Rand of graduate student life in the 
3. · Increase stipend equality Corporation maintains a grad­present. and levels -In my own depart­uate school which pays its stu­Reynold F. Nesiba ment of economics the stipend dents $15,000 for the first two Economics Department levels are grossly unequal. years and $25,000 for the next Nov. 25, 1991 
We must take a stand against criminals 
Dear Editor: drinking at a bar, providing should be expected and 
I am responding to Jennifer R. some monetary support to the demanded from someone doing Karaffa's letter printed under establishment of The Commons, time behind bars. We should the title, "The Commons is not and having a good time when give most murderers the death to blame for crimes" which they were robbed at gunpoint. penalty. We should have a legal called the editorial cartoon of One of them was even shot and system that gives more protec­The Commons The Observer Ms. Karafa wants us to blame tion to victims and less to printed (The Observer, Dec. 3 ), the victims. She goes on to say criminals than ours currently "an ignorant and unfair attack that we should not walk around does. on The Commons tavern." the "Northeast Neighborhood," 
Ms. Karafa clearly expressed that we should be scared to Why should a man bleed to her opinion that The Commons walk the streets of the city of death from bullet wounds while is not to blame for the recent South Bend and that we should taxpayers' money is used to buy violent crimes that occurred in let criminal hoodlums dictate the killer's meals and purchase its parking lot. I have no idea the way we live. weights for a criminal to lift so whether or not The Commons that he may become stronger was to blame for these inci­I disagree. We must take a and more dangerous while he is dents however I vehemently ob­stand against the crime in our in jail. We must shout our ject to the way Ms. Karafa community. This isn't the Wild anger out again and again and shifted the blame to the victims West or at least it shouldn't be. write letters to make our voices of the crimes. We shouldn't be scared to walk heard. We should vote for peo­
Ms. Karafa claims the victims on the streets. We must impose ple willing to make the law of the crimes were "under the stricter penalties on criminals. have stricter penalties. We influence of alcohol which in Longer jail sentences would should demand protection now. turn impaired their judgment." discourage people from com­We should demand justice and I am not one of the victims, yet I mitting crimes. never under any circumstance sincerely believe that whether We must establish a criminal should we ever be dumb the victims were under the in­justice system that is not a joke. enough to place the blame on fluence of alcohol is of abso­A criminal justice system where the victims. lutely no relevance to these criminals do not get their Paul Amann cases. sentences reduced for "good Keenan Hall 
The students were innocently behavior." "Good behavior" Dec.3,1991 
Coach errs by teaching safe sex 
Dear Editor: cific morality of the teachings. Thompson inform the students 
John Thompson, the basket­Magic Johnson is an advocate that these sinful behaviors are ball coach at Georgetown of the amoral proposition called always wrong? University, was recently inter­"safe sex." Mr. Thompson did The· eternal truths of the viewed by ABC News' David not reject this value orientation Catholic Church must be taught Brinkley. Mr. Thompson was and this Catholic viewer at all Catholic institutions of asked about the instruction he wondered if the instruction of learning. Teaching the errors provided the players following safe sex was one of the options of moral thought such as safe the disclosure by Magic Johnson provided by Mr. Thompson. sex and enlightening the stu­of his medical diagnosis. Mr. dent to the infallible truths of Thompson related that he If Mr. Thompson teaches this the Church in faith and morals discusses the various options belief, does he inform the stu­must be the focus of every available to those who partici­dents that safe sex rejects the teacher. Nothing Mr. Thompson pate in sexual relations. absolute truths of the Sixth and said indicates that he teaches 
Mr. Thompson was pressed Ninth Commandments issued by the Catholic value system. about the moral implications of God to Moses and affirmed by Georgetown University is the options in light of the fact Christ? Does Coach Thompson theologically obliged to remove that he teaches at a Roman instruct the Georgetown stu­Mr. Thompson, a subtle teacher Catholic university. Mr. dents that safe sex affirms of moral error. Thompson would not reply to promiscuity in the immoral Joseph E. Vallely the specifics of the instructions form of adultery, fornication, Washington, CT that he teaches nor the the spe-and homosexuality? Does Mr. Nov. 21, 1991 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. Please send letters to: 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 or bring them to third floor LaFortune. 
Dear Editor: 
Thn following is an open lntter to Uw graduate student community, the Graduate Studnnt Union and the Gradual•~ School. It is the mu­tual objective of all of these groups to enhance the quality of resnarch, the quality of life, and thn prestige of Notre Dame graduate students. In order to ment these objectives the fol­lowing thren policy measures should be adopted immediately. 
I. Create a Notni Dame child care center -Many graduate studnnts arn married, have r.hildrnn, and live on only one l'amily rnembnr's stipend. In the casn of International graduate students. fnderal aid in the form of student loans or welfare programs, which both require United Statns citiznnship, are simply unavailable. For a spousn, usually a mother, to be nmploynd outside the house de­pendable, inexpensive child earn is a prerrquisite. 
The Education and Child Dev•~lopmnnt Center (ECDC) at Saint Mary's is full and has a long waiting list. Although some graduate students are viewed as clearly needing assis­tance and are granted tuition waivers for their children to at­tend this particular center; the vouchers are worthless when one cannot, because of the waiting list, send their children there. 
A solution which would benefit not only graduate stu­dents, but also faculty and staff would be to create a Notre Dame child care center. It would be modeled after ECDC, but also offer care for younger children. 
I encourage the GSU to con­tinue its work in this area, en­courage the Graduate School to see this project as important in accomplishing its own mission and urge faculty and staff to push for this project when meeting with fellow colleagues, human resources, or the Provost's of1ice. 
2. Provide graduate students with aecess to subsidized health insurance -Although graduate students serve as research as­sistants, teaching assistants, and in many cases teach 


Be aware and conserve to help our environment 
Dear Editor: 
If you haven't alrnady notieed nither from the posters or the banrwrs in thn dining halls, it is Environmental Week '91. Now, I know what you're thinking al­riHtdy. You're thinking that thos•~ freaks from the environ­nwntal dub are out promoting solllll "eause" again. We II you'm wrong! 
The purpose of this week is not to get you to join some environmental action group or change your life dramatically. Thn purposn is to: (1) makn you aware that you are part of an environnwnt which you livn in and (2) what you do as an individual does makn a diffnrenee. 
What do we mean by that? Well, let's talk showers. As wintnr approaches, we love to take that long, long hot shower in thn morning. Did you know that when you use thn shower, you are using at least five gal­lons of watnr pnr minute? So, if you rut that sevnn minutn shower down to fivn minutes, you would save ten gallons of watnr. If eaeh person at Notre Dame did that, we would save 100,000 gallons of watnr per day. That is a lot of agua! 
That donsn't even include the 4 gallons of water used in flush­ing thn toilet, or the water usnd for brushing your teeth, and washing the dishes. Wn am not saying that you do not do these things. But. we do ask you to be more aware of your con­sumption and cut it down when possible. 
So, now you say to yourself, "Heck, we have plenty of water to go around." Ahhh, but do we? Of all the earth's water, 
97.4 percent is ocean water. And do we really drink and use this raw ocean water? No, not at all. So, what's left? Well, an­other 2.2 precent is tied up in polar ice caps and glaciers. As of yet, wn haven't developed a method to use this source fully. So, math majors, that leaves lnss than 0.5 percent that humankind can use. 
About 1/2 of the water that we use in the U.S. comes from groundwater. We pump 82 bil­lion gallons out of the ground per day. That's a lot, especially when you consider it takes 300 years to replenish a shallow groundwater source. While use of this magnitude continues, the aguifers continue to dry up as their levels drop and the flow slows to a trickle. Also, once pollution occurs, forget it. That water is as good as done, and it doesn't take much polluting to happen. 
What's the point? Don't waste it. Conserve it. Don't pollute it. Preserve it. Reduce, reuse, and recycle! 
Mike Kamradt Anton Salud Students for Environmental Action Dec.2,1991 







Accent 
• 

page 12 Thursday, December 5, 1991 
Behind the scenes work creates 'Student World Premieres' 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Take a trip back in time this weekend. Welcome to the 16th century when meals were occasions to celebrate. For one evening you will not have to scarf down an entree at the dining hall or 59-cent tacos at Taco Bell. 
Diners at the 19th annual Madrigal Christmas Dinners will be treated to a traditional Renaissance­era holiday feast designed to stuff and entertain. 
Brightly-costumed dancers, instrumental musicians, and singers will perform throughout the two­hour program. 
Minstrels in the king's court, a master of the house, a juggler, trumpet players, a jester, the royal court, and peasant dancers are some of the characters diners can expect to see. 
The department of music at Saint Mary's will host the Madrigal Dinners on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Dec. 5, 6, and 7. The program begins at. 7 p.m. each evening in the north lounge of Regina Hall at the College. Seating begins at 6:30. 
Nancy Menk, director of choral activities at Saint Mary's, has been in charge of the entire program for three. years. She said the Madrigal singers are a "special group" who "come together (exclusively) for 
Good food Good spirits 
Saint Mary's presents a weekend of Madrigal dining and entertainment 
this." 

The women are selected from the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the men from the Collegiate Choir, with preference given to junior and senior members. 
Traditional English, French, German, and Austrian songs are sung between five live trumpet fanfares, which were tapes in the past. The fanfares herald the entrance and welcome, the wassail bowl, the boar's head and feast, the figgy pudding, and the enter­tainment. 
Menk explained that that "most of (the songs) are old carols, not madrigal" that get the guests in the Christmas spirit. 
Most of those in attendance are South Bend residents, parents, and administration who hear basically the same songs every year with a little variance. 
Over the years Menk has seen improvement, however, and is proud to have a whole consort of recorders playing soprano, alto, tenor, and bass parts. 
The feast itself is the type of which Henry VIII might have attended. The meal will consist of roast beef, steamed potatoes, green beans, and the fabled figgy pudding. 
Although the dinner is provided by Marriott, soloist Cheryl Zopp said the "food is great, much better" than what students eat every day. The caterers are allowed to eat and dress up, but the performers are entitled to drink only. 
Zopp said they "get wassail (a cinnamon-spiced punch) and to sing our brains out." 
Ed Palmisano, a third year performer, said the Madrigal Dinner is "a lot of God-awful fun." He described the program as a lot of improvisation since there is no set script. 
"There are general directions, but not individual staging," Kristin McAndrews explained. 
"It's not like Shenanigans, it's loose and free-floating. It's fine to lean over and sing to some little girl who's eating her figgy pudding," Palmisano said. 
Both Palmisano and Zopp said they enjoyed the break from traditional vocal perfonnances. "We interact with the audience. Through the whole thing I may not stand next to another bass," Palmisano said of how the singers are not separated into sections, but are more of an informal traveling band. 
Each performance has a seating capacity of 200 and always sell out early. However, there are still openings for Thursday and Friday and Menk wishes more students would attend than have in years' past. 
According to Palmisano, the price of the Madrigal Dinner is 
. comparable to a typical weekend evening of dinner and en­tertainment. With all the hall dances this weekend, it was suggested that couples come to the Dinner before the dance. Tickets, priced at $22.50 per person, are on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Limghlin Auditorium, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Ticket ordeP. forms are available by calling the box office at 284­4626. No ticket orders will be accepted by phone. 

By MELISSA COMER 
Accent Writer 
D 
o you want to be a star? How about a producer? Director? Writer? 
They may not be in front of 

the camera, but the students in the Communication and Theater Department will have their moment on the big screen as they present "Student World Premieres" tonight at the Snite Museum of Art. 
The film and video production students of Notre Dame will present films never before viewed by the general public. It is the culmination of a semester's work with approximately 30 projects selected for this special viewing. 
Students enrolled in the Basic Film and Production and Advanced Film and Production classes have created these films for class projects. The projects are filmed on SVHS video, Super 8, 3/4", and 16mm film. 
Given the general guidelines for their assignments, they were then free to use their imaginations. Thus, the topics, genres, and lengths of these films vary. 
The films range from advertisements to short documentaries. A number are 
parodies and satires with subject mat­
ters ranging from the South Bend 
Animal Clinic to a_ personal comment 
on anxiety. 

With the wide variety of projects, 
selecting those to be viewed tonight 
proved difficult. 

"If we let different people choose 
which films to present, you'd get a 
different selection each time," 
according to Theodore Mandell, 
assistant professional specialist in the 
communication and theater 
department. 

He explained further, "The styles are 
all different. Different students excel at 
different things. There are all different 
tastes." 

The challenge for the film students lies in their ability to excel at every aspect of filming. Since they are not . only the eyes behind the camera, the students must develop the concept, set­
ting, and script. 

In addition, they are casting directors 
and producers. As Mandell put it, 
"Here you're on your own. In the real 
world, there could be a hundred 
people working on a film." 
The time commitment involved with 
these films is the major cost of 
production. "No one who goes to see 
these projects will really appreciate 
how long they take to make," com­
. mented Mandell. A student in the Advanced class, Nate Fitzgerald added, "You can never predict how much time it will take you ahead of time. I asked one of my friends, 'Do you want to be a star?' I don't think he knew how much work it was going to take either." 
Yet the majority of the time is not spent actually filming but rather in the editing room. A 45 second film can include as many as 35 to 40 edits. And the work is never done. 
M 
andell said of his students, "They're constantly re­editing. It's a constant process of refinement. Most people are never completely satisfied." 
But for all the hours spent, presentations like "Student World Premieres" make the work worthwhile. Though all films produced are viewed in the classroom for fellow students to critique and learn from, the opportunity for a more public viewing is also important. 
An increase in the number of viewers invokes an entirely different response. Mandell maintains, "Anytime you make a film or video, you have a viewer in mind. It's intended to be viewed by someone other than yourselves, When you make a film, you want as many people to see it as possible." 
The student film-makers welcome this opportunity for feedback. Jay Barry, a film and video production major in the advance class, said he believes, "The class is a tough audience to sell. With a larger audience, you get a real feel for what people outside the film world think of it. The audience is usually not as critical. They're going to enjoy it or not going to enjoy it. That's what it comes down to." 
Mandell and his students seem optimistic that the audience will indeed enjoy it. "It's very entertaining, a night well spent," Mandell predicts. 
If nothing else, "Student World Premieres" offers other students the opportunity to see what their classmates have been doing. 
Carolyn Brock, a student in the Basics class and a telecommunications major, commented, "I would encourage people to come out. You'd be really interested to see what your peers are doing in Communication and Theater." 
The presentation will take place tonight at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. at the Snite. Admission is $2. 



Accent
Thursday, December 5, 1991 page 13 

The Observer/ Sean Farnan An adaptation of Charles Dickens' classic story 'The Christmas Carol' will be performed at Washington Hall Dec. 5, 6, and 7. 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Diane Dean remarked on the initial 
AccentWriter 
New Tradi'ti•ons 
~~:cdu;!~~n~! ~~;~d~~~~~n~a:~e~~~
Notre Dame exudes tradition. since most of the actors and Every event, every building, every actresses have previous acting alumnus parading around, gawking experience, there have been no at the monuments on campus-it's major setbacks. nearly impossible not to reminisce "It's all coming together, finally!" about something. From football to said Dean, going into this week of 
An Tostal to SYHs. Notre Dame is dress rehearsals and last-minute
Fl s• !J • dpl 
tr~~:i~~~~e you ever wondered how anner-teg rte ayers deif~l~~ its inception, the Players' the traditions originated? Ask Mod '~fJ Ch . c /' charity of choice has been South 
Quad. present e r1stmas aro Bend's Dismas House, a home for ex­
1
1991 marks the third year of /I 1 prisoners. aetivity for a most successful group, The goal of Dismas House is to the Flarmer-Siegfried Players. and Michelle Griffin have worked to Christmas Carol." No Scrooge could encourage people who might 
Although three years may not bring the Notre Dame and Saint spoil the months of hard work having otherwise lack a supportive en­seem like much, it is only steps away Mary's community a dramatic gone into this play. vironment upon returning to society. from eternity for students eager to spectacle sure to fill more seats in The 25 members of the cast, All residents work outside the house establish their own reputation as Washington Hall than Chemistry 117 selected after auditions at the end of and pay rent for living there. eontributors to the university's and 118 on test days. September, have had a grueling four This season, the directors of annual schedule of events. Sherry-Ann Morris, a senior to five rehearsals a week since Dismas House have a particular need 
On the evenings of December 5, 6 communications major and former before October break. for donations because they are in the and 7, they will stage Brain Way's resident of Siegfried Hall, is directing The cast includes residents not process of renewing federal grants, adaptation of Dickens' dassic story, the production. only of Siegfried and Flanner, but which ran out this year. For this "The Christmas Carol." As of Monday night's rehearsal, also of other dorms on campus. A reason, the Players' are charging a 
things were coming together total of 16 dorms and almost 60 minimal admission fee ($2 students, 
Three years ago, students in smoothly, but all members of the people are involved in the planning, $3 non-students) for the first time. Flamwr llall began the organization staff expressed a hint of pre-production, and actual performance Tickets to "The Christmas Carol to increase dorm involvement and production anxiety. of the play. are available at the information highlight t~e presence of Mod Quad They were convinced it was only Thomas Williams and Pat Killian, desk this week. or at the door. on campus. nerves, however, and spirits were as Scrooge and Bob Cratchit, head a beginning at 7 p.m. on the night of 
This year, producers Dianne Dean high behind the scenes of "The cast of talented actors. the show. 
Books describe historical growth of Notre Dame 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN Dome of Learning, The University write on the Main Building and Literary Critic of Notre Dame's Main Building" as Sacred Heart Church because of a free gift with the purchase of a his research in American material 
Thomas J. Schlereth. professor limited edition lithograph of the culture, but also because of the of American studies, will mark his Main Building. time he spent "tramping around 20th year at the University of But realizing that not everyone campus" during his undergraduate Notre Dame in 1992, the same had the space to display such a years. year the University celebrates its hanging, they decided to sell the s!~squieentennial anniversary. book independently. In his time outside of class 
As part of the commemorative Upon completion of his research during college, Schlereth would collectibles being produced in on the Main Building, Schlereth give tours to University visitors. honor of Notre Dame's 150th year, said he was struck with the idea of He managed to find a route that the Alumni Assoeiation doing a companion volume on would take his tour groups "on a approached Schlereth and asked Sacred Heart Church. walk through the past" beginning him to revise a slideshow "A Spire of Faith, The University at 1840 with the Log Chapel up to presentation he gave in 1979 on of Notre Dame's Sacred Heart where ever the current new thn IOOth Anniversary of the Main Church" was inspired by a developments on campus would Building and compose it in the presentation he gave after Sacred be. The campus architecture is a form of a book. Heart was renovated. way of "knowing the material past 
"A Dome of Learning. The Assembled in the same format as through physical remains," University of Notre Dame's Main his book on the Dome. Schlereth Schlereth said. Building" was the final product of makes especially proficient use of Schlereth is pleased with the 
Schlereth's work which he photography in this volume. completion of his books and complnted last Decembnr. With the help of the believes that the Main Building 
Through tiHl use of color and photographic talents of Steve and Sacred Heart Church black and white images, as well as Moriarty, adjunct assistant "symbolize faith and learning in a detailed historical explanation of professor of the Arts and Letters two different ways." the Main Building from the day it Core course, Schlereth climbed a "A Dome of Learning, The was eonstructed, Schlereth carries scaffolding in Sacred Heart in an University of Notre Dame's Main 
his readers through the signifi­effort to record the most beautiful Building" and "A Spire of Faith, cance the Main Building had in the details of the Church's ceiling. The University of Notre Dame's days of Father Sorin up until the The color photography is at best Sacred Heart Church" are 
exptlriences of today's students. use in the book's display of Sacred available at the Alumni Office and The Alumni Association orig­Heart's stained-glass windows. the Notre Dame Bookstore for $10 inally planned to distribute "A Schlereth is not only qualified to each. 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 


Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
page 14 Thursday, December 5, 1991 

.___No_T_IC_E_s______.l  I  FOR SALE  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me  GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT  !?...!?...!?... !? ...1?... !?...!? GRATEFUL HEADs- FLY ANYWHERE USA $189 R/T. The 1992 Student Travel  
for a quote 9:30-6:00,  Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15  ! NEED A BOOTLEG THAT  Update is here. 24 hr. info. 716-383­ 
1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS  289-1993. Office near campus.  Due to reduced seating,  HAS A GOOD VERSION  2168  
TYPING AVAILABLE  COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GRAY  tickets will be sold for the first time  OF "THEY LOVE EACH OTHER"  
287-4082  LEATHER. LOADED  ever@ info desk in  ON IT...  
W/EVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES.  CANNONBALL!  LaFortune for $1 .  Call 271-1211 and ask for  Kathleen Campbell  
$18,500 277-3784.  Good luck at National Catholics this  JOE.  Good luck in the Christmas Carol.  
ALTERATIONS AND  weekend. Don't dive crook-ed ......  I only need to borrow it  You'll do awesome.  
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL  HURRY, HURRY. AVOID THE  for two hours!  Love,  
259-8684.  AIRLINE TICKET: CHICAGO TO  RUSH. PLACE YOUR  It would be GRATELY  Knott Hall  
DENVER ROUND TRIP. DATES  ADOPTION: Proud parents of  CHRISTMAS GREETING  appreciated!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
VARIABLE (OVER X-MAS BREAK).  adopted toddler eager to find  PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST  !?...!? ...!? ...!? ...!? ...!? ...!  
WORD PROCESSING  CALL ANDY 283-1305  newborn to join our family. Our  ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS  One desparate woman seeks a real  
256-6657  warm and stable home offers  FRIDAY, DEC. 13.  man.  
security, lots of adoring relatives  "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A  Call Sandi x2732  
LOST/FOUND  For sale: Genesis cartridges  and a life full of love. Please call Barb and Dave collect 513-751­ Dear Col (Miss Whipple),  PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF  Size requirement. Experience necessary.  

 John Madden Football $25  7077.  Glad you could come for  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  
Tom Lasorda Baseball $20  Thanksgiving ...  SERVICES TODAY 4:00 PM.  
FOUND: RING IN DEClO. SEE  Arnold Palmer Golf $20  Are you married? What's up with  NOTRE DAME ROOM OF  
JANITOR AND IDENTIFY.  Altered Beast $15  SPRING BREAK '92-YOU'VE  you guys? Where's the rabbi? See  LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  
What a bargain!!!!  ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE  ya soon, -Bill  ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS  
••••••••••HELP•••••....• I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­ Call x1471 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  SO DON'T BLOW IT!! DO IT IN JAMAICAICANCUN STARTING AT A LOW $459! ORGANIZE GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE 1-800-426­ JUDY-GOOD LUCK ON ECON!  INVITED. "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A  raeat the'~  
FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE,IN. CHRIS X4327.  89 MERCEDES $200, 86 vw $50 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50.  7710! You down wit HTC, yeah you know  Megs, Kate, Erin, + the Sister Chain rules-love, Caroline  PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TODAY 4:00PM.  Price  
LOST -THICK SILVER CHAIN with BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at  Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  me. SUGAR BOWL PACKAGE 4 DAYS  The London Program's Not-So-Royal Shakespeare  NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS INVITED.  Hike!  
BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23.  #IN11KJC.  3 NIGHTS SUPERDOME HYATI +  Company presents  
Christmas gift from  4 TICKETS TO GAME. $1200  "A Midsummer Night's Dream"  
parents-serious sentimental value. Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions  ann klein  CALL ANDY 407-894-7489.  December 5,6,7 at 8:00PM in Theodore's  SENIORS  SENIORS  Get 1011 ,.,pusatw 1HI •t  
asked  rust suede jacket sm  $1 donations accepted at door  WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT  1'f1 pri«S•IuHII.,_,._..,,  
$40/bst offr  LIFE HAS NO MEANING AND  CAREER AND PLACEMENT FOR  •Eurall Aexlpas  $230  
& othr designr clothes  DEATH EVEN LESS, AS THE  INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR  (5 days w/in 15 days, 1st doss)  
LOST:  287-5926  ABSURDITY IS EVER-PRESENT.  YOU'RE OFF THE TEAM!  FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING  •Youth Flexlpass  $340  
SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW  (15 days, 2nd class)  
REDDISH-BROWN RABBIT FUR  THE WHITE VOID ENVELOPS  THROUGH WEDNESDAY,  •Youth Rallpass ,------$425  
EARMUFFS  Need to sell: 1 way tic to LAX  OUR PITIFUL AND SHORT  Troublemaker,  DECEMBER 11.  (1 month, 2nd class)  
ONE EAR SLIGHTLY TORN  Dec 19 . x3720.  EXISTENCES.  I think I will move down South and  -----------­ •Jtotes~du~dlori..,IISITIUCTI<ISI~onJ~<rfl  
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE  join my fellow hicks and get out of  1, 1992. f'<l=s issued in 1991 II'C good fortra'>'el ~  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA AT X4862  TICKETS  ENJOY, ALL YOU MEANINGLESS ONES! "Daft"  this ice palace. Do you think you can really stand to watch the Grinch? It doesn't have Jean  K-HO Top Quotes From Sat Nite:  validatEd within six months fi'om the issue dolE. Council Travel  
WANTED  Chp. Rndtrp. male tix. for sale,  Claude VanDamme in it!!!!!! -The Horn  1) I was sober when I was sitting on his lap.  1153 N. Decrbom St, 2nd ftoor Chicago, 1160610  
NO to Los Ang., 12/20 to 1/13;  SENIORS  SENIORS  2) Orbie:" He kissed her good  311·951·0585  
x1558  nite!"  
Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987  WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT  "...RELIGIONS ARE NEITHER  K-Ho:"lt was on the cheek  
Camry auto to Seattle, WA; will pay  CAREER AND PLACEMENT FOR  REASONABLE NOR BELIEVABLE,  it doesn't count when it's on  
$100 plus gas; call 291-4608.  H E L P! I need graduation tickets  INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR  AND THEY ARE ALL TRUE ..  the cheek!"  
for my family in Dallas, TX. Call JJ  FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING  3) Stop touching my f_ing  
X4815!  SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW  THOSE FADS WILL NEVER  butt!  
$40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV  THROUGH WEDNESDAY,  OVERSHADOW THE REALITY OF  
Scripts. Fill out simple  DECEMBER 11.  THE ABSURD.  Gee. maybe 1 daquari is 1 too  
"like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun,  NO alum seeks (2) reasonably  many. We'll have to do this again.  
relaxing at home, beach, vacations.  priced Sugar Bowl tix (415) 579­ ENJOY YOUR DREAMS, THE  Where are the 5th floor  
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24  1432.  "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A  NIGHTMARES OF YOUR LIVES!  flanner guys when you need  
Hour Recording 801-379-2925  PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE  them. Next time you won't get  
Copyright #IN11KEB.  VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF  "Daft"  toasted will you?(NOT)!  
Spend New Year's in Florida!  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  Your roomie to be  
$2,400 Value!  SERVICES TODAY 4:00PM.  ORBIE  
HOUSEMATE WANTED:  Share 2­ 3 RT tix Indy to Miami  NOTRE DAME ROOM OF  COME SEE  
BR home with Grad Male.  Avail Jan  Lv 7am 12/25, Retrn 4pm 1/5  LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S  RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW!  
1, 1992.  FFI: Jeff 288-3878.  Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188  ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS INVITED.  DREAM!!! SHAKESPEARE'S BEST PERFORMED BY YOUR FELLOW  ZAHM: ALWAYS LOSERS.  DAYTONA BEACH 5 and 7 NIGHTS SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 5 AND 7 NIGHTS  ,~,SfQ4 ,~Sf28  
Need ride to Michigan City on Saturday. IF you can help me call 3710.  PERSONAL  "THE SECOND INTERVIEW: A PRESENTATION ON THE OFFICE  DOMERS FOR ONLY $1 AT THEODORE'S! THURSDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY. 8PM.  THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!! THE CHRISTMAS CAROL!!!  STEAMBOAT 2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS PANAMA CITY BEACH 7 NIGHTS  ..~Sf22 ""m$f22  
SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. FOR RENT  NOTRE DAME VIDEO WE HAVE-­Silence of the Lambs  VISIT" BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TODAY 4:00 PM. NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS INVITED.  SPRING BREAK IN CANCUN! IT WILL BE HERE BEFORE YOU KNOW IT! OUTGOING CAMPUS  See the Flanner/Siegfried Players perform the Dickens holiday classic. Dec. 5, 6, and 7 at 8:10p.m. in Washington Hall. Cost: $2 students/$3 non-students (to benefit Dismas House)  FORT LAUDERDALE 7 NIGHTS • HILTON HEAD ISLAND 5 AND 7 NIGHTS MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS 5 AND 7 NIGHTS nth Annual  """'$fJ6 '""' 5ff9 '"m$f2B  
Robin Hood  REPRESENTATIVE WANTED BY  Celebration!  
Backdraft  THE NATIONS LARGEST AND  "And God bless us, everyone."  TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  4-11 p.m.  PART TIME SALES REPRESENTATIVE WANTED TO  MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR.  1·800·321·5911 ~  
7 Days A Week  SELL NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL  RECEIVE A FREE TRIP AND  LECTURE; WHY I WANTED TO  ~ ~  
Basement of LaFortune  YEARBOOK, AND ANNUAL  CASH FOR PROMOTING OUR  LIVE IN KEENAN  BY FATHER  
Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt.  PREVIEW. EARN $10 FOR EACH  TRIPS TO YOUR FRIENDS AND  BURTCHAELL  DEC12  
Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call277-8866  $50 MEMBERSHIP SOLD. OUTSTANDING EARNINGS  CLASSMATES. CALL 1-800-395­4896  j  ACNE I  
Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm.  IRISH GARDENS  POTENTIAL, NO CAP ON  Hey Butch,  
-This weekend-December 6 and 7,  INCOME. IDEAL COLLECTABLE AND GIFT ITEM FOR ALUMNI  After we finish the paper, how 'bout some late-night  A NASTY FOUR  
Near N.D. cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285  Irish Gardens will be open until 6:30 p.m.  AND SERIOUS COLLEGE SPORTS FAN. WE ARE  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE  banjo strumming? If's been a few days since you had  LEITER WORD  
dep. ref. 288-7207  -There are plenty of SYR's so come  CELEBRATING OUR 10TH ANNIVERSARY IN PRODUCING  Monday thru Friday  a tune up... -your little butterfly  If you had started  
2 bedroom-2bath w/loft at  in A.S.A.P. and preorder your flowers for that special someone.  QUALITY SPORTS PUBLICATIONS. IF YOU HAVE  Dec. 2-6, 11am-5pm Sat. Dec. 7, 11am-4pm  on clear Care Acne  
Oakhill Condominums $650.00 per month  THE CREATIVE ENERGY, AND SALES ABILITY, CONTACT MIKE  Holiday refreshments served  KEENAN-CARROLL SYR  Treatment 30 days  
Available immediately Please no undergraduates  hey nif  HERMAN AT 1-800-776-2695 TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW.  while you browse. Lower Level LaFortune  DEC 12 AFTER FR. B's LECTURE (NO PARIETALS !!!)  ago, you would be  
Includes washer/dryer microwave and all appliances  clt:a.r of Acne today  

Call (219) 277-1997 
For free samples,
REPOSSESSED & IRS
SEIZED CARS, 

Myth: Sexual Harassment is 
FORECLOSED HOMES 
information on how
trucks, boats, 4wheelers, 
available at below market value. 

harmless. Women who 
motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA 
Fantastic savings! You repair.

Nice So. Bend home, 5 mins from 
Clear Care's topical
l-wailable your area now. 

object have no sense
NO. Wshr/dryer, refrig, stove, 
Also S&L bailout properties. 
rn 

dishwasher, AIC & pan (805)682-7555 Ext. C-5921 
Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. H-6237 
medications work,
of humor. 

garage. $420/mo.+dep. 232-8943 Mark. 

U]
. 
FREE TRAVEL 

Reality: Harassment is 
Postal Jobs Available 
Call our Skin Care

Air couriers and Cruiseships. 
humiliating and 
Information Line

Students also needed Christmas
2 RM'S FOR RENT 
Many Positions. 
[il 
degrading.

200 PER MONTH 
Spring, and Summer for 
[il 
(800) 435-3533 Great Benefits.

USE OF ALL UTILITIES 
Amusement Park employment.
ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 
Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. F-3397
Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. p-3644 

THE CONSTITUTION
UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY
I I
'D1e words we live cy 

...................... -......... -----------·-..-··-------~----.----------------... ---­

Thursday, December 5, 1991 The Observer page 15 · 
IOC to review conflict of interest guidelines 

LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP) ethics regulations. Helmick, a lawyer from Des Board's options could have been behind us and to move for­-Hobert Helmick's resignation "Up until now," he said, "we Moines, Iowa, had been an IOC to expel Helmick. Howevel", ward," he said. "I see the rela­is leading the International felt the rules covered the mat­member -a lifetime post -Mbaye said the inquiry was tionship between the IOC and Olympic Committee to clarify its ter. But as a result of this ex­since 1985 and a delegate on moot once Helmick resigned. the UOSC as very good today." rules on confliet of interest. perience, the members need to the IOC Executive Board since For that reason, the IOC will not Helmick held one of the two 
The IOC Executive Board said have a clearer understanding 1989. He became the first IOC disclose the results of its IOC posts reserved for it is taking steps to ·ensure that on the matter of public disclo­Executive Board member in investigation or what Americans. The other U.S. members don't leave sure and conflicts of interest." history to resign, and one of the recommendation it planned to member is former Olympic themselves open to potential Gosper said the Executive only IOC delegates ever to step make. rower Anita Defrantz. abuses in their business Board would advise all mem­down. The affair has shaken the im­Helmick's replacement will be dealings. bers in writing about the rules. Helmick· has denied any age of the USOC, the richest nominated by the IOC in consul­
The moves are prompted by If any members have doubts wrongdoing, reasserting in his and most important member of tation with the USOC. the case of Helmick, who re­about their business dealings, resignation letter that he had the international Olympic signed from the IOC Wednesday they should go directly to IOC "done nothing ever of harm to movement. It has also embar­"There is no urgency on that amid allegations of ethical mis-president Juan Antonio the Olympic movement." rassed the IOC, which is seeking matter," Gosper said. "It will eonduct. * Samaranch for guidance, he He resigned after meeting to enhance its own image in the take its normal course.... It's 
An investigation by USA said. with a special three-man IOC wake of published reports al­not unusual for a country which Today found that Helmick re­Gosper said there is an in­panel which had been investi­leging corruption and malprac­is entitled to two members to ceived almost $300,000 from creasing need for members to gating his business records tice among some of its mem­travel without two members for the firms with Olympic ties. The guard against potential con­since September, stepping down bers. some time." investigation led to Helmick's flicts, especially since the IOC hours before the panel was to ·Helmick's successor as USOC resignation from the USOC operates more and more like a report its findings to the president, William Hybl, said The question of Helmick's re­presidency and to the audit that corporate body. Executive Board. the case should not harm the placement on the Executive resulted in his IOC resignation. "The reason for this sugges­The head of the inquiry traditionally close relationship Board will be discussed at the 
IOC vice president Kevan tion derived from the fact we commission, IOC vice president between the IOC and USOC. IOC general session in Gosper said the Helmick case are dependent on corporate' Keba Mbaye, acknowledged "The goal has been for the Albertville in early February, pointed out the need for clearer sponsors," he said. that one of the Executive USOC to put th(jse allegations Gosper said. 

Time to face facts-baseball is big business 
By ED SCHUYLER Jr. Yankees, who used to throw escapism. The latter makes it the $29 million for Bonilla, an performances in the field. AI' Sports Writer around free-agent money as if it recession-proof. outfielder-third baseman, the The signings of Murray and were confetti, has been in­Baseball's place in the Mets paid first baseman Eddie Bonilla were heralded by the 
Forget "Take Me Out to the structed to deal only in trades. American psyche should con­Murray $7.5 million for two New York-area media, with Ball Game" at Shea Stadium in Bobby Bonilla's $29 million tinue to make it attractive to years. newspapers printing at least 29 New York, Chavez Havine in Los deal for five years with the New television, although maybe not Dwight Gooden expressed de­million words. Angeles and some other major York Mets is both a sign of to the point of a $1 billion deal light about the offensive sup­It was noted that Murray, who league parks. Instead, play times in American society and a with a commercial network. port he could get this year from played last season for the "There's No Business Like Show sign of the changing times in While free-agency has not a lineup that will include Dodgers, and Bonilla combined Business." baseball. wrecked the competitive bal­Bonilla, Eddie Murray, speedy to hit 37 home runs and drive in 
Make the baseball anthem at The contract underscores the ance, there could develop a Vince Coleman, power-hitting 192 runs in 1991. No doubt,places like Pittsburgh's Three fact that professional sports are class society in baseball, with Howard Johnson and either that's a million-dollar combina­Hivers Stadium and the businesses, a major part of the smaller markets such as Kevin McReynolds or Greg tion in present-day baseball. Kingdome "Brother, Can You leisure-time industry in a Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Jeffries. Spare a Dime." country which seems to be in­Seattle becoming New Havens Of course, Gooden, his fellow By the way, the Bonilla­
Of course the hit song this creasingly a nation that sells for players to hone their skills pitchers and the fans could Murray total was 19 home runs coming season at Yankee services rather than products. and reputations until, through spend more than a few heart­fewer and two RBis more than Stadium should be "Crazy." Entertainment is a service in free agency, they are able to burn nights when what should Hack Wilson produced in 1930 Gene Michael, general manager that it provides cultural en­play Broadway or Hollywood. be a very offensive batting for the Chicago Cubs. of thP he.an.less New York richment or, in the very least, Not long before shelling out order turns in some offensive All by himself. 
WE BAVEN'7 FORGO"EN RAVE YOU? 
Yes, WVFI is still trying to go F M but now we need your help. If you :Jare having trouble reaching us from 
your hall, let usknowby calling the 
FRED line --283--FRED. (leave 
your hall and floor number --you 

too, St. Mary's.) 

YOU CAN MAKE THE DIFFERENCE 
-­~­---~-------­ ~ -­-~ ~~  
page 16 The Observer  Thursday, December 5, 1991  
Kareem and the Doctor will go one-on­ SPORTS BRIEFS  
one in a game to benefit AIDS research NEW YORK (AP) -Kareem was the skyhook, virtually un­tions company is sponsoring the Abdul-Jabbar and Julius blockable because of his 7 -foot­event, said he originally 2 height and the high trajectory planned to ask Abdul-Jabbar  •Sports briefs are accepted in writing every day except Saturday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions.  
Erving, who scored many of their 68,413 pro points by cre­of the shot. He was a six-time and 55-year-old Wilt ating their own unstoppable MVP and 17 -time All-Star. Chamberlain to meet in a shots, will meet in a 1-on-i Erving, a 6-7 forward, split matchup of the NBA's most of­game on Feb. 28 in Atlantic his career between the NBA fensive-minded centers. City. and American Basketball "We decided the age gaAbdul-Jabbar, 44, who retired Association, but his array of might have been too great," dunks and finger rolls cata­Erving said. "Kareem and I are  •Students and staff interested in having an indoor climbing wall on campus should come to a brief meeting tonight at 6:00 p.m. in Rockne 218. It is important that groups and individuals wanting a wall be represented at this information meeting since p the amount of interest is being assessed. Questions, call RecSports at 239-6690 and ask for Sally.  
in 1989 as the NBA's leading career scorer with 38,387 pulted to a spot on the NBA's contemporaries." points, and Erving, 41, who 35th anniversary all-time team Dave Wooley, president of the retired in 1987 with 30,026 in 1980. He was a three-time DJ Group Inc., is the originator points, said Wednesday their ABA MVP and was the NBA and promoter of the event, competitive instincts prompted MVP in 1981. which will be televised on pay­them to agree to the meeting. Erving said the key to giving per-view cable along with 1-on­"The competitive juices never the event credibility is prepara­· 1 meetings with four other top retired players to be named.  •Attention all rowing club members: A brief and informative meeting will be scheduled for today. Year end activities will be discussed and sweats/stevensens orders will be confirmed. Orders will be processed on Friday. Erg-a-thon money should be brought to the meeting or given to Heidi in room 318 Farley. Reminder, that individual clothing orders will not be processed if erg donations are not in by Friday.  
stopped," Erving said. "Talent tion. doesn't just die. The ability to "Kareem and I have hooked The DJ Group is Erving's base use it diminishes, but it doesn't up many times on the court, but of operations.  •The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. We will be taking a group photo,  

disappear in four years. I think people will be pleasantly sur­prised that we can still play." 
"We've always had a great ri­valry on the court, and now it can continue," Abdul-Jabbar said. "It's going to be a very physical game, he can count on that. I'm preparing like a boxer for a championship fight. There is no team concept involved. It will just be the two of us, and I wouldn't want to have to cover myself 1-on-1." 
Abdul-Jabbar's best weapon this will be the first time we've played 1-on-1," Erving said. "This is the ultimate challenge for me. I will be in great shape and ready, willing and able to represent the forward position in fine fashion." 
Erving said the dignity of the event is important. 
"We haven't lost the gift of putting the ball in the hole," he said. "We're prepared to make the event successful financially and artistically." 
Erving, whose sports promo-
Wooley said Erving and Abdul-Jabbar will be guaran­teed six-figure purses, and part of the proceeds from the tele­cast will be donated to the Magic Johnson Foundation for the battle against the AIDS virus. 
Wooley said he got the idea for televised 1-on-1 meetings years agQ when he was growing up in Harlem. 
"A guy from every neighbor­hood and housing project would be considered a legend on the 
Weldon, Richardson and Detmer named as finalists for O'Brien quarterback award 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) ­Florida State's Casey Weldon, Texas A&M's Bucky Richardson and Brigham Young's Ty Detmer have been named final­ists for the 1991 Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award. 
A 12-member Advisory Committee selected the three fi­nalists from a ballot of 10 quarterbacks. Weldon, Richardson and Detmer will be invited to an awards show Saturday, Dec. 7, at the College FDotball Hall of Fame at Kings Island, Ohio. 
The winner will.be announced on ABC-TV between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. EST. 
The three finalists for the Maxwell, Outland, Jim Thorpe, Doak Walker and the Johnny Unitas awards also will be in­vited to Kings Island, with the honorees to be announced dur­ing the show. The Chevrolet Football Coach of the Year also 

Dallas 
continued from page 20 
would go out there if I wasn't ready. Coach Johnson has indi­cated he will let me decide when I'm ready to play. 
"Sure it might be a little risky," Aikman said. "But it's risky every time you go out there. You might separate a shoulder or something. I'm not worrying about hurting the knee worse." 
He added, "If I suit up then that means I'm ready to play." 
Aikman is targeting the Philadelphia game on Dec. 15 as his first start. 
"I need some practice time and I haven't been getting any of that," he said. "That's why I'm not expecting to start on Sunday." 
Beuerlein, who has said he understands his role as a backup with the Cowboys, said he hoped Aikman didn't rush things. 
"He knows how he feels," Beuerlein said. "When he feels mobile, he'll be out there." 
Aikman actually has had bad injury luck all three years of his professional career. 
will be recognized. 

The 6-1, 200-pound Weldon completed 189 of 313 passes for 2,527 yards, 22 touchdowns and eight interceptions. The se­nior quarterback was the mainstay of the FSU team, ranked No. 1 since preseason in the various polls before a one• point loss to top-ranked Miami Nov. 16. 
Richardson, a 6-2, 221-pound senior, led the No.9-0 Southwest Conference record. The Aggies will host No. 5 Florida State in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 1. 
Richardson established new SWC career marks by a quar­terback with 2,095 rushing yards and 30 rushing touch­downs. 
Detmer, the recipient of the Davey O'Brien Award and the Heisman and Maxwell trophies following the 1990 regular sea­son, established 65 NCAA records and tied three others during his career. 
This season, the 6-0, 175­pound senior led the Cougars to a third straight Western Athletic Conference title and a berth in the Thrifty Car Rental Holiday Bowl against Iowa. He completed 249 of 403 passes and 35 touchdowns during the season. For his career, Detmer hit on 958 of 1,530 attempts for 15,031 yards and 121 TDs, all NCAA marks. 
The 1991 Davey O'Brien honoree and the runner-up will be honored at a dinner Feb. 10 at the Fort Worth Club. 
The other players who were on the final ballot were Jeff Blake of East Carolina; Matt Blundin of Virginia; Elvis Grbac of Michigan; David Klingler of Houston; Shane Matthews of Florida; Tony Sacca of Penn State; and Gino Torretta of Miami. 
In his rookie season, he broke a finger and missed three games. 
He suffered a concussion when he returned from the injured. Last December, Aikman injured his right shoulder against Philadelphia and sat out the last game. 
"Frustrated, you bet I'm frustrated," Aikman said. ''I'm anxious and ready to get back in there. I want to be on the field with these guys when we get into the playoffs." 
Dallas hasn't been in the NFL playoffs since 1985. 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
EDUCATIONAL GROUP
•
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION 8c COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
so everybody please attend. 
court," Wooley said. "Sometimes a legend from one project met a legend from an­other to see who was the bad­dest. 
Everyone from both neighborhood would come to see who had the best moves. The prize was the ultimate bragging rights." 
Wooley called the Dr. J­Kareem meeting "the Skins 
Game of basketball." 
Retired NBA referee Earl Strom will officiate the game, which will be held at the Trump Taj Mahal. 
In 1990, eight first-year NBA players met in a 1-on-1 tour­nament at the same site. The event was won by Bo Kimble, now with the Los Angeles Clippers. 

SCUBA COZUMEL SPRING BREAK 
MAROI 7-14, 1992 DIVER & NON-DIVER PACKAGE INCLUDES: AIRFARE, LODGING 2 TANK DIVES DAll.Y UNUMITED OFFSHORE DIVING TRANSFERS DAILY DIVER $995.00 ; NONDIVER $795.00 
WHAT A BETTER WAY TO SPEND SPRING BREAK! 
INFORMATION MEETING AND MOVIES, SNACKS ROOM 218 ROCKNE 1:00PM DECEMBER 7 CALL KATHY 277-0058 FOR MORE INFO 
JR Aquatic center 51333 U.S. 31 -33 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
-------~--­

Be apart of it this year! 
We need chairpeople as well as commiHee members. 




can283c3891 
to join or for more info! 

Thursday, December 5, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Strawberry rips Mets for signing Bonilla 
•ENCINO, 
Calif. (AP)-Darryl Strawberry says the Mets would have saved themselves a lot of money if they paid him the $20 million that would have kept him in New York last year. When the Mets balked at Strawberry's price for a five-year contract, the outfielder took the free agent route to the Los Angeles Dodgers. That's. why Strawberry seems to getting a special delight in the money the Mets are shelling out for free agents Bobby Bonilla and Eddie Murray. Bonilla's price was $29 million for five years and Murray cost the·Mets $7.5 million for two years. "They finally got around to replacing me," Strawberry said. "All it took was two quality players and close to $40 million. It would have been a lot easier if they kept me." Strawberry sees it as more than coincidence that the Mets dropped to fifth place in the National League East after he left. 

•CINCINNA 
f -Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Boomer Esiason says being the team leader is a burden, made heavier by the team's 2-11 record. "I'm the spokesman who, when he says he's not talking, it's headlines. It gets blown out of proportion, and it can be frustrating," he said. "''ve tried to take a back seat this year. I've tried to take a lower profile." Esiason said he was not complaining, "But, it's a burden. It's something that's gotten out of hand and it's way out of control.' Tight end Jim Riggs says there's a reason for Esiason's position. "He could be a coach. lie's a born leader," Jim Riggs said. "When he talks, people listen. Even on defense, they listen to him. He pretty much voices his opinion to management, eoaches, players. I know it's hard on him. But it's what makes him tick, too." 


Baseball MVPs play in softball game 
•NEW YORK -Cal Hipken and Terry Pendleton, the major lnague's two MVPs, head the lineups for the Pepsi All-Star Softball Game to be played in Palm Springs, Calif., February X.Hipken has played in the game eight times, while this will be Pendleton's first. The second and third place finishers in MVP voting also arn listed among agreeing to play-Cecil Fielder and Frank Thomas, and Barry Bonds and Bobby Bonilla. 
Colts s~n Conlin-for third time 
•INDIAN POLIS -If it seems familiar, it's because offensive guard Chris Conlin has bmm this way before. The Indianapolis Colts signed Conlin Wednesday for the third time this year. Conlin first signed as a free agent in April, and was waived a wnek before the NFL season began. He was re-signed in September, thtm waived on Nov. 1 after guard Randy Dixon came ofT injured rnserve. Conlin had started two of the five games in whkh he played during his narlier stint. His latest re-signing will fill a roster spot vacated when tackle Bubba Paris was waived on Monday. 

Juniors 
Last chance to submit pictures for the JPW Slide Show!!!! 
Bring your horizontal pictures (no alcohol showing) to Student Activities . 
Please put your name and address on back so they can be returned. 
Deadline: lrlday, Dec. I 3tlt 
Spartans stay undefeated with defeat of Nebraska 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­Michigan State and Nebraska .b-4:1th struggled offensively Wednesday night, but the 22nd­ranked Spartans pulled out of their swoon in the second half to remain unbeaten with a 101­
78 win. 
Michigan State { 4-0) scored 
68 points in the second half, 
turning a five-point halftime 
lead into a 15-point bulge with 
a 12-2 run early in the second 
half. 

Freshman guard Shawn 
Respert keyed the charge with 
eight points, including two 3­
pointers. 
"I was pleased that we were able to turn it up a notch in the second half," Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote said. "We said to play better in the second half, and did just that. That sounds ridiculous, but it's great coaching strategy, I guess." 
Michigan State led by as many as 28 points down the stretch, as the Cornhuskers ( 4­
1) fell 16 points short of their 
season scoring average. "I was really impressed with Michigan State. They came out and got some momentum, and we couldn't score," Nebraska coach Danny Nee said. 
"Once they got on their run, and got their crowd into it, it was over," Nee said. "I was disappointed in the Nebraska defense, but that was probably more due to the Michigan State offense." 
Matt Steigenga led all scorers with 24 points, while Mike Peplowski added 16 points and 11 rebounds and Respert scored 15 for Michigan State. 
Six Spartans scored in double figures, five of them frontcourt players. Michigan State also outrebounded the Cornhuskers 40-33. 
"The forwards haven't played very well in the first three games, so today was nice," said Steigenga, a 6-foot-7 forward. "I think we just turned up the intensity in the first half." 
Jamar Johnson led Nebraska with 18 points. 
Both teams struggled throughout a sloppy first half. Nebraska missed its first seven shots as the Spartans took a 7-0 lead . 
The Cornhuskers pulled to an 11-9 lead, but their shooting woes continued. They shot just 36 percent for the half and had 13 turnovers in the period. 
"We wanted to be more com­petitive tonight, but we'll just have to write it ofT as a learning experience," Nee said. "It will help us prepare for the Big Eight season." 
Michigan State had 12 turnovers in the first half, but Steigenga and the 6-11 Peplowski combined for 24 points and the Spartans used a late 7-2 run to lead 33-28 at halftime. 
"I think it was a defensive game, or maybe just a game of missed opportunities," Heathcote said. "We turned the ball over a number of times just trying to run the offense, and so did they." 
Michigan State travels to Dayton for a game Saturday night, while Nebraska plays at Creighton that afternoon. 
Ditka sympathizes with Burns' decision 
LAKE FOREST, ILL. (AP} ­Mike Ditka said Wednesday he can sympathize with former Minnesota Vikings coach Jerry Burns for resigning from the "ruthless business" of profes­sional football. 
Ditka, longtime coach of the Chicago Bears, said coaches are often the scapegoats when NFL teams don't perform well. And during a news conference, he hinted that he's considered quitting, too. 
"Coaches are expendable, very expendable," Ditka said. "Our job is to coach, anP. when you cease to win, then you're gone. It's cut and dry. It's a ruthless business." 
The high pressure to win can be an incredible strain, Ditka said. 
"After a while, I'm sure other types of employment look more appetizing than coaching. Believe me," Ditka said. "It can happen to anybody just like it happened to Jerry (Burns) and other people." 
Ditka, whose team is 9-4 this season, is in the first year of a three-year, $2.85 million con­tract. He said he likes the idea 
Indiana Opera North Presents: AMAHL AND THE NIGHT VISITORS A Christmas Story About Three Wise Men & 
A Crippled Boy 
•December 
6th &7th at the Bendix Theatre in South Bend's Century Center 

•December 
8th in the Beickman P.A.C. of Concord High School in Elkhart. 

•All 
presentations will begin at 7:30pm. Tickets can be purchased at the Century Center Box Office in Southbend (284-9111 ), at Templin's in Elkhart (293-0345) or at the door. 


Price: $10 for adults, $5 for students $7.50 for senior citizens and groups of 15 or more. 
of leaving the NFL on his own, rather than waiting for the job ax to fall during a losing sea­son. 
"The time could come before a lot of people think it would come," Ditka said. "It would be up to me. I'm understanding more. And the more I under­stand, I'm not sure I like it. 
"Sometimes, you don't have a choice," Ditka added. "The main thing is, go out walking, not crawling, not on your back. Just go out walking, that's all." 
WE'RE FIGHTif\JG FOR '.OJR LIFE 
American Heart &ta Association V 



page 18 The Observer Thursday, December 5, 1991 

Bulls win 13th straight; Charlotte downs Lakers 
CHICAGO (AP)-The Chicago Bulls set a team record for consecutive victories with 13 as Scottie Pippen had 28 points, 15 rebounds arid 10 . assists Wednesday night in a 108-102 decision over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The victory snapped the Cavaliers' five-game winning streak and was the Bulls' 11th straight over the Cavaliers dat­ing back to April 23, 1989. It also gave the Bulls their best start ever at 14-2. · 
Chicago's previous streak of 12 straight victories was set in November 1973. 
The Bulls opened a 100-88 lead, but the Cavaliers chipped away at the margin behind the shooting of Brad Daugherty and John Williams, who scored 26 and 22 points, respectively. 
But a 3-pointer by B.J. Armstrong started a 12-2 run that put the Bulls back in con­trol. 
Horace Grant scored 22 points for the Bulls and Michael Jordan was limited to 16, all in the first three quarters. 
Hornets 124, Lakers 106 
CHARLOTTE -Dell Curry hit all four of his 3-point attempts and scored 27 points as Charlotte beat Los Angeles for the first time in nine tries. 
The win snapped the Hornets' five-game losing streak, and they were 0-8 against the Lakers in their first three NBA seasons. 
Charlotte pulled away from a 77-77 tie in the fourth quarter, scoring a franchise-record 47 points while holding the Lakers to 29. 
Curry was 11-for-15 from the field overall and his 4-for-4 performance from 3-point range keyed the Hornets' 7 -for­Bshooting at that distance. 
James Worthy scored 28 points and Sam Perkins 26 for the Lakers, who have lost three of four since a nine-game win­ning streak. Rookie Larry 



Flyers 
. continued from page 20 
Dineen's record was 565-381­
80. He was 80-54 in 11 playoffs and won two AHL champi­onships at Adirondack. 
Holmgren, the subject of ru­mors for weeks, said Tuesday that team president Jay Snider and Farwell "can only be fair for so long." 
The team is winless in seven games, 8-14-2 overall and in last place in the Patrick Division. The Flyers are 1-9-2 against division opponents. 
Farwell, who brought in a flock of young players and got rid of some veterans, insisted that the Flyers haven't been playing as well as they can. 
"I think questions will cer­tainly point to where our team is right now, and I don't exactly know where we are within our division but I know, I feel very strongly our team is better than where we are playing right now," he said. 
Holmgren, the first former Flyer player to be named coach, was hired in 1988 after three years as an assistant coach. He replaced Mike Keenan, who was blamed for a team in open rebellion. 
His record in three-plus sea­sons was 107-126-31. 
The team finished 36-36-8 in his first season and was elimi­nated from the playoffs in the Patrick Division finals. The Flyers were 30-39-11 in 1989­90 and 33-37-10 last season. 
Johnson scored 22 points for the Hornets. 
Celtics 124, Heat 97 

BOSTON -Robert Parish scored 31 points and Larry Bird 28 as Boston toyed with Miami for 38 minutes before pulling away, extending its home record to 20-0 against the NRA's four exoansion entries. 
• Parish scored 23 points in the first half in leading Boston to a 58-54 lead, then Bird had 18 in the third and fourth periods before retiring to the bench with 4:32 remaining and the Celtics ahead 114-90. 

Trail Blazers 124, Magic 115 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Clyde Drexler scored 34 points and Portland continued its hot shooting during a trip to Florida with a victorv over Orlando. 
Big names play in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -As two-time de­fending champion, David Frost would seem the likely favorite when 10 players compete this week for the sport's biggest paycheck in the $1 Million Golf Challenge. 
But things are different this year in Frost's native South Africa, including the caliber of competition in the tournament held at Sun City in the black homeland of Bophuthatswana. 
The two top-ranked players in the world L-Masters cham­pion Ian Woosnam of Wales and Nick Faldo of England­along with two others ranked in the top 10 tee off Thursday in pursuit of the $1 million top prize. 
In fact, Frost is the lowest rated player in the field at 67th in the world. 
"With a field like that, every­body's a threat," said PGA champion John Daly, whose soaring drives are well suited for the 7,729-yard course. 
Organizers say political re­forms in South Africa have made the tournament palatable again for top players from Europe and the United States. 
The field also includes Americans Mark Calcavecchia and Fred Couples, Germahy's Bernhard Langer, Australia's Steve Elkington, Zimbabwe's Mark McNulty and South Africa's John Bland. 
Frost won last year with a 4­under-par 284 total, but needed birdies on the last two holes to beat Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal. It was the highest winning total in the tournament's 10-year history and let Frost join Seve Ballesteros of Spain as the only repeat winner. 
Woosnam, who won the event in 1987, believes he has earned the role of favorite with strong performances in his last three tournaments. He won the individual title in the World Cup and followed it with victories in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf in Hawaii and last week's skins event in Thailand over Ballesteros and Gary Player. 
"I must have a reasonably good chance this week," Woosnam said. "I have just won three in a row, so obvi­ously I'm pretty sharp." 
The second-place finisher will receive $300,000, third 250,000 and fourth $200,000. 
This year's competitors get a bonus of sorts, the Star news­paper reported. Because the tournament is played in Bophuthatswana, which South Africa considers a separate country, the winnings are taxed at a 50 percent rate by the homeland. 
No other nation recognizes the sovereignty of the home­land, set up under the apartheid system of racial seg­regation. Therefore, players previously had to pay a second tax when they got hom~. 

TASK FORCE ON CULTURAL DIVERSITY Report to the University Community 
Report Number Two December 3, 1991 
For the past five weeks, the members of the Task Force have been meeting in committees. The interim reports of the three committees follow. 
Committee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment The committee held its first meeting on October 31, 1991. The members agreed it would be important to receive feedback from the University community, especially the students, with regard to the state of cultural diversity at Notre Dame. As aresult, the committee set the following goals for their work; 1) to compile information concerning the state of cultural diversity at the University; 2) to develop and implement an instrument to communicate to students what is being done and to listen to the concerns ofthe students and suggestions they might have regarding solutions. The mechanism chosen was to hold listening sessions in the residence halls and to arrange meetings with different stude 
groups. 

The committee met on November 4 to schedule open hearings in the residence halls and to schedule listening sessions with the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Native American Students, the Hispanic American Organization, and the League of Latin American Citizens. Those meetings were scheduled to begin on· November 11 and end before the end of the current semester. 
Contact was made with the Hall Presidents' Council and the rectors to solicit their cooperation in carrying out these hearings, and to solicit and urge participation by all hall residents. 
Committee on Policies and Structures The committee will analyze the mission statements of the University. Interviews will be conducted with several key individuals who are most closely involved in the areas of faculty and staff recruitment, minority student retention and support, undergraduate and graduate student 
financial aid, and curriculum development. 
Questionnaires will be sent to all department chairs and unit directors asking that they: 1) explain current policies regarding cultural diversity 
and affirmative action (broadly defined); 2) offer policy and structural suggestions which they feel will make the University community amore 
culturally diverse and responsive environment. 
An attempt will be made to identify offices and individuals responsible for promoting and developing multiculturalism at Notre Dame. By mean of acurrent understanding of the current reality, the committee hopes to offer concrete recommendations which are able to be implemented. 
Committee to Review the (Nathan) Report The main foc:us will be to examine the 1988 Minority press release which represented apublic commitment following the issuance of the Hatch Report. 
Two person teams will interview all the persons mentioned in the report to determine how successful the report has been and to determine 
which recommendations did not succeed and why. 
The committee as awhole will interview Kevin Rooney, director of undergraduate admissions, Oliver Williams, C.S.C., associate provost. and 
Joseph Russo, director of undergraduate financial aid. 
Everyone who is to be interviewed will be advised ahead of time of the reasons for the interview and will be reminded of the work and 
recommendations of the Hatch Report. 
Mr. Rooney told the committee members that the minority enrollment increased from 8% to 15% in five years. Minority undergraduates assisted in the planning of minority recruitment, and efforts have been made to carry Notre Dame's interest into the broader community. One o the problems discussed was that the pool of applicants is relatively low. some students admitted by the University are not .choosing Notre Dame. This is due in part to financial aid packages that are less attractive than those of many peer institutions. Some minorities do not feel at home at Notre Dame, and do not talk positively about Norre Dame to family and friends. Some minority students do not feel that the Notre Dame experience is what they want or need. It seems essential to improve the environment and to exacnine some campus policies. 
Future activities of the Task Force Before the end of the semester, the members of the Task Force will receive and discuss documents which will form part of the interim report o their work. The report to Father Malloy is due by January 15, 1992. 
On that date, there will be ameeting of the Task Force to plan their work for the second semester. 


December 5, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

CROSSWORD 
~Edward 
ACROSS 
1 Depart secretly or suddenly 7 Orchestra section 
(abbr.) 10 Like some jobs 14 Not righteous 15 South African 
capital 17 Light, ringing 
sound 18 Dweller 19 Breakfast item 20 Is mournful 22 Firearm 23-cent 25 Tailless amphibians26 Food fish 27 More despicable29 Newspaper items 30 Mistake 31 Allures 

-the season... " tl e defense 1iel-" iot novel)
26 Musical works 28 Appraises 62 Cos 30 -acid Cb1 

32 Sma 11 bed 63 Su• 33 Ill-bred person 64 Mal 36 Between tenor and 
bass 37 Repeated 38 Ballplayer Ron ---­40 Word in Bogart film 
title 41 Do newspaper work 42 Furniture wheel 43 East coast ball­
player 44 Of a Christian 

Julius 
Collegiate CW8821 
33 Swindle 34 Spanish explorer 35 Language of the 
Koran 39 Tennis need 40 Think 42 Common ailments 45 Like some checks 46 Actor MacDona 1d­47 Topic 48 Of the Franks 50 Title for Olivier 51 Trigonometry 
abbreviation 52 Failed to include 54 Children's game 56 Combine 58 Word in two state 
names 60 Makes joyful 61 Made uniform 

~AMPUS 
4 p.m. "The Second Interview: A Presentation on the Office Visit," Paul Reynolds, Associate Director, Career and Placement Services. Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor, LaFortune. 
7 and 9 p.m. "Student World Premiers," film and videos from Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre Department. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Fletch." Cushing Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Play, "A Midsummer Night's Dream," '[he Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company. Theodore's. Donations at the door. Sponsored by the London Program. 
8:10 p.m. Charles Dickens, "A Christmas Carol." Performed by residents of Planner and Siegfried Halls. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Planner and Siegfried Halls. 
LECTURES 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "Living Cultures: Prosp"ects for Latin America," Denis Goulet. Room C103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored br Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
4 p.m. Program in History and Philosophy of Science Lecture, "The Organization of the Discourse on Animals in the 13th Century," Miguel De Asue. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. 
' Sponsored by the Program in History and Philosophy of Science. ' 
...

MENU 
Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Baked Sole with Rice Dressing Manicotti Deli Bar 
Saint Mary's 
Southern Fried Chicken California Quiche Baked Lasagna Deli Bar 

.. 




Sports 
page 20 Thursday, December 5, 1991 
Irish volleyball prepares for National lnvitationals 


Medical problems drop two from the roster 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It will be a banged-up, flu-riddled Notre Dame volleyball team that makes the trip to Dayton, Ohio, this weekend for the third annual National Invitational Volleyball Championships (NIVC). 
The latest victim: senior Jennifer Slosar, who battled back from stress fractures to rejoin the team midway through the season. Slosar suffered a broken leg last weekend during the team's sweep of Texas-Arlington, and has been in an Arlington hospital all week recovering. Irish coach Debbie Brown expressed hope that Slosar would be back on campus by early next week. 
"I don't think the team is dwelling on it (her injury). but it's definitely not something they've forgotten;" Brown said as Notre Dame prepared for this weekend's action. "Everyone misses having Jen around, and we all feel bad for what she's had to go through." 
The Irish also have lost freshman Nicole Coates for the season with mononucleosis. As well, junior co­captain Alicia Turner tentatively is scheduled to return this weekend after missing Notre Dame's last four matches with an ankle injury. 
Still, this is an Irish team on a roll. Notre Dame (22-8) has won 12 of its last 13 matches-the only blemish being a five-game loss to San Francisco two weeks ago that killed any hopes it had·of making the NCAA's. 
Instead, the Irish come into the NIVC's as the number-three seed overall, behind only Kentucky and Northern Arizona. Notre Dame is the top seed in Pool C of the tournament, with California, Arkansas State, West Virginia and Drexel making up .the rest of the pool. 
"We have to be most concerned with California and Arkansas State," said Brown. "Cal is in the Pac-10, so they've faced good competition the whole year, and Arkansas State beat Pitt (an NCAA 
· Tournament qualifier at 28-8) this past weekend." The Indians (39-7), a member of the Sun Belt Conference, have participated in the NIVC the past two years. Arkansas State is led by two front-line players, senior Cyndi Rhone (710 kills) and junior Jo Beth Carmack (.350 hitting percent­age, 134 blocks). "They are a good defensive team," noted Brown. "They aren't heard about much, but they're a seasoned team. They don't make many errors." , · Kentucky, who was headed to the NCAA's until an injury to its star player, Kathy DeBono, led to a late-season slump, comes into the NIVC as the top seed. A member of the top 20 for most of the season, the Wildcats knocked off the Irish earlier in the year in Louisville, Ky. Notre Dame will need strong performances from junior Jessica Fiebelkorn, the MCC Tournament MVP who leads the team in blocks (142) and is third in kills (274). and MCC Newcomer of the Year Christy Peters (27 4 kills, team-leading 34 aces). As well, junior Marilyn Cragin (team­high 313 kills) and. sophomore setter Janelle Karlan, who was just released 
from the infirmary (with the flu) yesterday morning but has been cleared to play this weekend, will play key roles for the Irish as they hope to come away with the NIVC title. 
But the injuries and illness which have plagued Notre Dame the past few weeks have taken their tbll on the team's depth just when it needs that commodity most. 
"We went from having a lot of depth to not having much at all," Brown said. "Particularly with the type of 


Louisville Cardinals take on Irish men's basketball 

... 
The ObserverI R. Gar Sctw<rtz Keith Tower and the Irish are looking for their first win of the season tonight against Louisville. 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 

Last year when the Irish hoop squad faced the Louisville Cardinals, they were a squad struggling through the end of a 12-20 season. 
This time Notre Dame will be looking for its first win of an early season when the Cardinals come into the Joyce ACC tonight at 7:30p.m. 
Louisville pounded Howard in their season opener on November 23, and haven't 
' played a game since then. The Irish are coming off a 78-46 loss to the Indiana Hoosiers Tuesday. 

The Cards will be tough again this year. They lost only guard LaBradford Smith from last year's 14-16 squad. that came on strong late in the year, fin­ishing second in the Metro Conference Tournament. 
Everick Sullivan is the main gun for Louisville this year, and was the second-leading scorer, behind Smith, on last year's 
Philadelphia Flyers replace Holmgren 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The last-place Philadelphia Flyers replaced Paul Holmgren as coach Wednesday with Bill Dineen, a veteran scout and coach described by general manager Russ Farwell as a mo­tivator. 
"Bill is an experienced coach with a proven track record," Farwell said at a Spectrum
.. press conference. "He's always gotten the most out of what he has and always gotten the most out of his players, both individ­ually and as a team." Holmgren, in his fourth year as coach with the Flyers, will be offered another job, most likely as a scout, Farwell said. "Paul has been a very loyal member of the Flyers organiza­tion for a very long time," 
Farwell said. "However, I feel a change is needed. 
"I felt basically that due to the competitive nature of our division this year, that we just didn't have the luxury to wait any longer and we had to make the decision right now," Farwell said. 
Dineen, 59, is the father of Flyers right winger Kevin Dineen. Bill Dineen joined the Flyers staff last season, scout­ing mainly the Ontario region. This is his first head coaching job in the NHL. 
"He's a tough guy not to play hard for," Farwell said. 
"His demeanor is pretty low key. I don't think he's a yeller or a hollerer at all, but he's got the ability to get the most out of his guys. He has always had in the past the ability to set a standard and make players play to it." 
Dineen, a native of Arvida, Quebec, spent five years in the NHL as a right winger, mostly with the Detroit Red Wings. In 323 games he scored 51 goals and added 44 assists. He played on two Stanley Cup winners at Detroit, in 1954 and 1955. 
He started his coaching ca­reer as a player-coach in Denver in the Western Hockey League, then moved to Houston and New England in the defunct World Hockey Association, and Adirondack of the American Hockey League. 
In 13 seasons with Houston, Hartford and Adirondack, 

see FLYERS/page 18 

The Observer/ John Rock 
The Irish volleyball team will be looking to set itself up with some big wins this weekend. 


Everick Sullivan 
team. The Cardinals don't have much size though. Cornelius Holden, a 6-7 junior, mans the pivot. He averaged 12.5 points per game last year, as well as 
8.2 boards to lead the team. Troy Smith, a 6-8 forward is another key for the Cards. 
Several players who had to sit out last season after failing to meet Prop.-48 requirements will also be in uniform for Louisville. 6-10 center Brian Hopgood, who averaged 29.2 ppg and 12.3 rpg in high school tournament it is, with two matches every day, it's going to be a negative factor." 
The Irish open the tournament today at 11:00 a.m. against the Mountaineers before tangling with the Indians at 7:00 
p.m. On Friday, NQtre Dame faces Drexel at 1 :00 p.m., and California at 5:00 p.m. 
Should Notre Dame advance from Pool C competition, it would meet the winner of Pool D Saturday at 3:00 p.m. for the right to make the championship match that evening at 8:00 p.f!!. 
will give the Cards interior depth. Forwards Greg Minor and Dwayne Morton are also now eligible to play. 
The Irish will be looking to build on a few bright spots from the loss to the Hoosiers. Guard Elmer Bennett appears to have shot his way out of a slump, while freshman Malik Russell showed some ballhandling skill. taking over the point for a time on Tuesday. 
Notre Dame's defensive in­tensity was also good, but not as successful as Indiana's man­to-man. Louisville's quickness will challenge the Irish ball­handlers, as will the frequent trapping the Cardinals will show. 
Louisville won last year's meeting between the teams, 65­
59. LaBradford Smith led the Cardinals with 20 points, but it was Everick Sullivan's 4-8 three-point shooting that really broke the backs of the Irish. Daimon Sweet was the leading scorer in the game with 22 points. 
Aikman to dress versus Saints; will only play in an emergen~y 
IRVING, Texas (AP) -It would be a blue Christmas for Troy Aikman if the Dallas Cowboys got to the playoffs without him. 
"It would kill me," Aikman said Wednesday. "I feel like I played a big part in getting the team to where it's headed. For me not to be in there would be very frustrating." 
Aikman, who suffered a par­tial tear in a knee ligament against the Washington Redskins on Nov. 24, said he would suit up when the Cowboys play New Orleans on Sunday. 
''I'd be ready to play on an emergency basis," Aikman said. "I don't expect to start." 
Steve Beuerlein, who rescued the Cowboys against Washington and led them to victory again on Thanksgiving Day against Pittsburgh, will start Sunday. 
"My knee is still sore in some spots but it's getting better ev­ery day," Aikman said. "I just want to be there in case the team needs me. I'm frustrated. This is two seasons in a row this has happened. I'm doing everything I can to get back." 
Asked if he was rushing things, Aikman said, ''I'm not foolish to the point where I 
see DALLAS/page 16 





