.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

IIH-1992 HSQUoCENIUINIAI 

VOL. XXIV NO. 59 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1991 
. THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senate Ethics Committee reprimands Cranston 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The linked." Senate Ethics Committee repri­In past cases, the Senate has manded former assistant taken a censure vote after such Democratic loader Alan highly critical findings have Cranston Wednesday for been presented by the ethics "Improper and repugnant" panel. dealings with Charles Keating Jr., wrapping up a tumultuous The decision not to take that two-year Investigation growing step this time marked a com­out of the savings and loan promise between the view of scandal. the committee's Republicans, 
who favored censure, and 
After committee members Democrats who sought a lesser presented their report on behalf rebuke. The committee found of the full Senate, Cranston took Cranston violated no law or Se­the floor to accept the action nate rule. "with deep remorse In my Cranston's remarks enraged heart." But he then spent nearly committee Vice Chairman War­an hour -in an unrepentant ren Rudman, R-N.H., who told and contentious mood -colleagues the Californian's denying he was guilty of many statement was "arrogant, un­of the committee's accusations. repentant and a smear on this 
The Senate, In an unprece­institution." dented action, took no vote on the report that accused the The committee said it found California Democrat of "an Im­"extenuating circumstances ex­permissible pattern of conduct ist" in Cranston's case, noting In which fund-raising and offi­his poor health and intention to cial activities were substantially retire. 
By KATHY MASSA Theologians John Donahue, ferent roles in response to truth are buried by patriarchal ent understanding at work to­News Writer S.J., Aquin-O'Neill, and Theresa changing Church needs, Don­assumptions which both men day in reference to the students' Koernke reflected on the stu­ahue added. He ended his dis­and women advocate. responses in the hearings. 
The Committee on Notre dent feedback from these hear­cussion with the questions: "Is The competence of an indi­She translated the students' Dame's Position on the Ordina­ings. Each speaker quoted se­the limitation of priests to un­vidual to minister as a priest is comments Into traditional theo­tion of Wopten discussed the is­lect statements from the hear­married males really sensitive not decreed by gender, but logical language. "The priest is sue of female ordination in the ings and then presented theo­to the times?" and "What role rather that individual's a visible symbol of an invisible Catholic Church with Notre logical reflections on the Issues should priesthood assume in the "maturity and integration into reality. The priest accepts the Dame students. addressed. third miUmnium?" society" should determine his awesome responsibility of 
Hearings occurring in dorms, "I am impressed and gener­These assumptions are pow­or her fitness for the priest­standing in the midst of a after classes, and in selected ally moved by the religious sen­erful "precisely because they hood, Koernke said. community as a living witness student clubs have examined sitivity of the students and I am are not questioned," Koernke She pointed out that we do to the way of Christ and to what the definition of "priest" and humbled by the expectation said. She said the assumptions not worship Christ made 'male' it means to open one's heart to have attempted to outline the they place on priests," said affecting the issue of female at Christmas; we worship what is human to the utmost." duties of a priest. Donahue as he bel!an his com­ordination underly responses to Christ made 'flesh.' O'Neill emphasized that the 
"The Church has always had mentary. Donahue emphasized the questions: "What does it O'Neill spoke on the person of the priest is the tho duty to scrutinize the signs the responses of those students mean to worship God?" and "essentials of the presence of sacrament and that through the of the times and interpret them who referred to a priest as a "Who is fit to lead this wor­the risen Christ and His living priest, others know God. in light of the Gospel," Professor guide and teacher. ship?" memory and the mission to She stated "the Church com­Mary Aquin-O'Neill said during Donahue briefly reviewed the She pointed out that "it was proclaim the Good News to all." missions the priest to embody a forum on the Issue of the history of the role of the priest. not so long ago that women She added that "former ages and manifest the largeness, the ordination of females In the He said that different were considered "unfit to vote." of Christianity have understood largess, of the risen Christ." Roman Cathollc Church. understandings of what priests The patriarchy of American their encounter with the risen In closing, O'Neill said the goal 
The Church "cannot faithfully say and do is "rooted in its culture today supports those Christ in the figure of the priest, of The Committee on Notre Interpret the signs of God unless history of different forms." "silent, unreflected assumptions whose presence at the altar was Dame's Position on the Ordina­
we listen to all, especially the "Jesus did not leave a which control our behavior and a visible representation of the tion of Women, " is an essential young," Aquln-O'Neill ex­blueprint," Donahue said. The our thoughts," Koernke added. presence of Christ." place in the renewed Christian plained. priest has assumed these dif-She said that many insights Into 0' Neill said there is a differ-ministry for women." 

ND participates in youth program
Hesburgh sworn to 
By ALICIA REALE according to Marlowe. •relations with the community News Writer "There is a need for Notre at large will be improved. 

new position 
Dame to act on the larger "The University wlll expose community's behalf," Marlowe itself as an organization willing By MONICA YANT great posslbllities, given the 
The University of Notre Dame said. "Even though It will not to assist the surrounding com­Newa Editor changes taking place In the 
has been selected to participate solve all the issues we are chal­munity about social issues," for the first time In the National lenged with, we feel strongly Marlowe said. 
world," Hesburgh said yester· Youth Sports Program (NYSP) that the NYSP can become a Marlowe also added thatFather Theodore Hesburgh, day from Washington. "It's got for economically disadvantaged component of the total effort there will be a different en­University president emeritus, a real future ahead of itself." 

children. the University puts forth on be­richment activity addressed was sworn In this morning to The board will meet seven· The goals of the NYSP will be half of the community." each week. 
the board of directors of the to-eight times per year to "to expose the children to true Marlowe said the University Drug and alcohol abuse willUnited States Institute of make declsloris on how to sports and enrichment instruc­can use NYSP "as a vehicle to be one of the Issues discussed. 
Peace. allocate more than $8 million 
tion and to build bridges with help build common relations Many of the youngsters will be Hesburgh was confirmed for budget, be said. Hesburgb 
the South Bend and greater with the community." There are from areas affected by such the four-year, renewable posi­will participate In his first 
Michiana community," accord­three aspects of the program topics. "Their experience with tion by the U.S. Senate last board meeting Immediately 
ing to Demetrius Marlowe, the which will work to facilitate the NYSP wiJl pull them out of week. after this morning's ceremony. 
project coordinator and a these relations: their environments with nega­counselor in the University's of­•potential students will be tive peer pressures and Intro­
He joins 14 other members Hesburgh is one of 11 board fice of academic services for exposed to university life and duce them to safe, differenton the Washington-based members who are not govern­student-athletes. environment and will thus learn modes of life," said Marlowe. 
Institute, created by Congress ment officials. 
The 5 week program is what a university is; Wellness training with anJn 1984. The institute Hesburgh, 74, was Univ.ersity 
scheduled for this summer from •employment opportunities emphasis on nutritional, health, promotes world peace through president from 1952 to 1987. 
July 6-August 7 and will bring will be open to the South Bend spiritual and emotional educa­programs, grants, fellowships, He recently established the more than 250 area girls and community members as well as tion will be introduced. "There conferences and publications. Kroe Institute for International 
boys ages 10 -16 on campus to University staff and they can "It [the institute] has a lot of Peace Studies at Notre Dame. 
engage in a variety of athletic earn money and learn about see YOUTH/page 4 and enrichment activities, NO; 


Thursday, November 21, 1991
page 2 The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
• 

I had a certain forboding before the first drop of the puck in Tuesday night's (Chuck) Norris Division match-up between the Blackhawks and Red Wings. 
As the color commentator was 
concluding his pre-game 
for the game. 
Regrettably, my premonition came to its fruition early in the first period. Already leading 1-0, Detroit was putting the pressure on Chicago's defense. Steve Yzerman freed himself in front of the net and took a centering pass, which he edged over the sliding Hawk goalie Ed Belfour. 
The goal-indicator light was illuminated by its operator, but the referee, who was very evidently unsure whether the puck had crossed the line before Belfour smothered it 
Cheryl Moser  John Rock  
Sports Rolando de Aguiar  Accent Patrick Moran  
Lab Tech John Rock  Systems Fritz Valsaint  
Scoreboard Jen Marten  VIewpoint Jeannine Blasi  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during_ exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductio~ rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Helicogter crashes in Caucasus 
•MOSCOW-A helicopter with a high-level delega­tion trying to mediate the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia crashed and caught fire Wednesday in the Caucasus Mountains, killing all 20 people aboard, Soviet media reported. The independent Interfax news agency, quoting "unofficial but reliable sources," said Azerbaijan's interior minister, Mamed Asadov, was among those killed. The official news agency Tass said 17 officials and three crew were on the Mi-8 helicopter when it crashed in the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh enclave inside the republic of Azerbaijan, in the Mar­tuninsky area. 
NATIONAL 

Fox airs first condom commercial 
•LOS ANGELES -Fox Broadcasting Co. made TV history in airing network television's first condom commercial. The commercial, while never specifically mentioning AIDS, advocates using a prophylactic "to help reduce the risk."For the last decade, the networks have banned condom commercials as part of their prohibition against birth-control advertising. But after Magic Johnson announced Nov. 7 he was infected with the AIDS virus, Fox said it had agreed weeks earlier to accept commercials that promote condoms solely as a means of preventing disease, not as a birth-control method. NBC and CBS later said they were reconsider­ing their policies. ABC said it won't re-evaluate its ban. 
OF INTEREST 

•Mandatory 
Urban Plunge orientation meeting on Sunday, November 24 from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Hes­burgh Library Auditorium. If you have registered to go on a plunge over Christmas break you must attend. If you have a major conflict, call the Center for Social Concerns at 239-5293. 

•An 
inclusive Thanksgiving liturgy will be cele­brated tonight at 8 p.m. in Morrissey Chapel. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community members are invited to attend. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ November 20 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX _.._ 192,684,940 209.43 v .48 ~-..-...,_s,&I COMPOSITE 378.53 .. .89 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,930.01 .. 1.56 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD • $ .30 to $364.70/oz. 
SILVER tt 1¢ to $4.082/oz. 

FORECAST: 
Today expect sunshine and some clouds with a high of 52 and lows in the 30s. Friday, possi~le showers, high of 50. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  68  48  
Atlanta  68  61  
Berlin  45  39  
Boston  68  50  
Chicago  70  42  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  65  48  
Denver  44  20  
Detroit  64  57  
Honolulu  85  76  
Houston  79  51  
Indianapolis  68  60  
London  46  39  
Los Angeles  77  55  
Miami Beach  77  72  
New Orleans  83  62  
New York  66  53  
Paris  43  41  
Philadelphia  62  46  
Rome  63  52  
San Diego  7 4  49  
San Francisco  67  52  
Seattle  54  48  
South Bend  52  30  
Tokyo  64  55  
Washington, D.C. 65  44  


in the crease. deferred the ruling to the replay official, who decided there was "inconclusive evidence" and disallowed the apparent goal. Utterly ridiculous. . 
The instant replay has been around slightly longer in the NFL, but its usefulness reached an all-time nadir in this Sunday's games. 
Space doesn't allow me to detail the numerous examples, but the worst two were a play in the Broncos-Chiefs game on which QB John Elway's entire body,save for his back foot, was over the line of scrimmage when he released the go-ahead touchdown pass (which stood), and a seemingly irrefutable interception in the Browns-Oilers thriller where stop-action frames clearly showed defender Randy Hilliard had both feet in bounds and control of the ball (ruled an incomplete pass). Indeed a science of capriciousness, this instant replay. 
In the first place, I'm against the replay in principle. The players make mistakes; cer­tainly the officials aren't above erring. But let's leave it at that; dragging out the call­making process delays the game and makes incorrect verdicts ever so much more exas­perating. 
Furthermore, there has been so much in­consistency plaguing every facet of the replay in its use. the integrity of the sports themselves is being tragically denigrated. 
As for the sentimental value of imperfect of­ficiating, two words are germane: Don Denkinger. Such mistakes add character to sports, and to (ostensibly) "remove" them is to remove a special inherent human quality from the games. 
I'm anxiously awaiting the night I tune in for my daily dose of SportsCenter and hear Chris "Mississippi" Berman declare the status of the instant replay "overturned upon review." 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Production 
Lauren Aquino Kathy Fong Ann Marie Hartman Cheryl Moser 
Business Photography 
Colleen Gannon David Hungeling Andy Runkle Elisa Klosterman 
•NE YORK-Donald Trump , halted his black limousine to help a man being beaten with a baseball bat on a Manhattan street, newspapers reported today. Trump, on-and-off fiancee Marla Maples and another couple were en . route to a Paula Abdul concert on Monday when the developer saw a man with a bat beating· another man, the New York Post and the Daily News reported today. Trump ordered his driver to stop; and then he got out and told the man with the bat to stop hitting the other man. Maples tugged at Trump's arm in an attempt to stop him from intervening. 
CAMPUS 

Notre Dame to accept more women 
•SOUTH 
BEND, Ind. -The University of Notre Dame will admit more women next fall, raising the en­rollment of freshmen women at the once all-male school to more than 40 percent, an admissions official said Wednesday. "In the past, we had to turn down or put on a waiting list some women who were every bit as strong as other men and women we were admit­ting," said Kevin Rooney, director of admissions. About 90 more places will be available to women applying for admission to the class of 1996, he said. The percentage of women admitted will be closer to the percentage of women applying. Granting more places for women will make it more difficult for men "on the margin" to win acceptance, Rooney said. 

•Leo 
Burnett Media invites seniors to attend the re­cruiting presentation in the Stapleton Lounge from 3 


p.m. to 5 p.m. today. Learn about employment opportunities in media planning at Chicago's largest advertising agency. Call Jeff Roberts for more information. 
•sesquicentennial Halloween contest proofs at Stepan Center will be on display in the O'Hara Lounge in LaFortune near the Information Desk. For additional information contact Rachel Flanagan at 283­1511. 
ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
In 1877: Inventor Thomas A. Edison announced the invention of his phonograph, which he dubbed a "talking machine." In 1922: Rebecca Felton of Georgia was sworn in as the first woman to serve as a member of the U.S. Senate. In 1973: President Nixon's attorney, J. Fred Buzhardt, revealed the presence of an 18 1 /2-minute gap in one of the White House tape recordings related to Watergate. In 1980: An estimated 83 million TV viewers tuned in to the CBS prime-time soap opera "Dallas" to find out "who shot J.R." (It turned out to be Kristin Shephard, played by Mary Crosby.) 
Thursday, November 21,1991 
Performance will present ethnic dances and music 
Special to The Observer 
"A Festival of African Rhythms," a performance of African music, drumming and dancing, will take place this Friday at 7 p.m. at Washington Hall on the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
Midawo Gideon Foil Alor­woyie, a drummer, drum teacher and dancer from Ghana, will perform with his African-American Unity Ensemble. Affiliated with the American Conservatory of Mu­sic In Chicago, the ensemble presents the traditional dance, music and drumming of ethnic groups In Benin, Burkina Faso, the Ivory Coast, Ghana, Nigeria and Togo. 
Musa La Lu Mosley, a drum maker and drummer-In-resi­dence In the Jikl Ballet Com­pany of Chicago, will perform with the Jlkl Band. The per­formance will Include percus­sion on a log drum, dancing, and what festival organizer Christopher Kougnlazonde de­scribes as "cosmic episodes." 
Kougnlazonde, a graduate student in government and in­ternational studies and presi­dent of the Notre Dame African Students Association, says that the festival "promises to be a unique, rich, rhythmic, harmo­nious and beautiful celebration of percussion." 
"A Festival of African Rhythms" is sponsored by the Notre Dame African Students Association, the African Studies Program, the Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowship Program, the Department of Anthropology, the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Center for Social Concerns, the Graduate Student Union, the Office of International Student Affairs, the Office of Minority Student Affairs, the Multicultural Executive Council, the Office of Student Activities, the Student Government and the Student Union Board. 
Admission is $3 for students and $5 for non-students. 

Now Open 

.. 

The Observer page3 

Play It again .•• 
Pasquerilla West sophomores Bethany Riddle and Jenny Tate (left to right) make a little music of their own as they jam in their dorm room Wednesday. 
SAB discusses bus trip to Chicago 
By JEANNE DEVITA 
News Writer 
The rmal details for the "Shop and See the Sights of Chicago" bus trip for this weekend were discussed last night at the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) meeting. 
"We really want to push this," said Meg McGowan, Vice-Presi­dent of Student Activities. This Saturday, for a $5 charge, a bus will take students to Michigan Avenue or to the museums in downtown Chicago. The bus will depart from LeMans at 8:45 
a.m. Saturday and will return at approximately 6:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the Dining Hall during dinner. 
SAB discussed the presenta­tion about John Fitzgerald Kennedy that Jack Gordon will give Monday, November 25 in Carroll Auditorium. "Plan to arrive early," said McGowan, "we've had him speak in the past and it's been a big hit." The presentation will begin at 7 p.m. 
SAB discussed using personal decorations for decorating the tree in LeMans, December 10. Irish Accent will perform on Tuesday, December 3 at 9 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
SAB plans to pubtlcize show­ing the movie "Jungle Fever" December4. 
A donation for $100 has also been made to the homeless shelter by SAB, according to McGowan. 
McGowan also said that ideas are being considered for the spring semester, such as a Mardi Gras celebration, which she calls "a really big event." 
Its About Time. lfs About Space. 
It's about ads that you will place. We are So, on Thursday, come and listen to Leo Burnett U.S.A., one of the world's ND/SMC alums speak about the excitement largest advertising agencies, and we are of a media career in advertising. coming to Notre Dame and St. Mary's to All students are welcome to join us for recruit for our Media Department. one of our two on-campus presentations. 
Thursday, November 21,3:00 p.m. • Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall (SMC) Thursday, November 21, 7:00p.m. • Alumni Room, Morris Inn 
I 
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 

• Discounted Bestsellers • Special Orders • 
• Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • 
• Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • 
• Bonus Book Club • 

,----------------,
I Exchange this coupon for I 
I II 25% OFF I 
I your next purchase at your 1 I Little Professor Book Center 1 I in South Bend I I I 
1 Offer good through November 30,1991 1 
I •orrer not valid on newspapers, magazines, IL __ ~~ ~e~o~ith o~r~sc~n~ __ _j 
Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood South Bend, IN 48637 Telephone: at9) 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:()()..9:00 Sunday: 10:()()..5:00 
® BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'll love. 
I The Observer
page4
I 

The Observer/John Rock 
Never too late.•. 
Dirk Benford, a sophomore from Sorin, realizes that it is "never too late" to decorate the bare walls of his residence-hall room as he carefully examines posters on display at the Sorin Room in LaFortune. 
Youth 
continued from page 1 
is a problem with health insur­ance. If we teach these children how to take care of themselves we may be deceasing health costs in the future," Marlowe added. 
Advice on career and higher educational opportunities will be given, according to Marlowe. The children will experience what college is like through the NYSP. They will discuss rea­sons to pursue higher education and career options if they do not. 
"We will teach them skills which they can then implement to start thinking and investigat­ing about careers," said Mar­lowe. 
Community leadership will be discussed teaching children to develop leadership skills to help out the community. 
Finally, organization and community skills will be ad­dressed. The instructors will discuss how self-image is com­municated to others. Time management skills will also teach the youngsters how to structure their time, according to Marlowe. 
Notre Dame has received a $40,000 grant to host the pro­gram and will be the first Indi­ana university involved. The NYSP, entering its 24th year, is 
sponsored by the NCAA, the 
U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services and 175 se­lected colleges and universities. Funding is provided by the 
federal government and partie­ipating institutions. Notre Dame will be one of 25 institu­
tions new to the program in 1992. 
The 250 local children from all over South Bend and the Michiana area will be recruited 
by liaison coordinator Charles Martin, director of the youth 
program at the YMCA. The 
economically disadvantaged criteria is determined by the NCAA. 
A k f
S Ofle 0

the 3nu'lliQfl Am .
eflCanS
h ,
W 0Ve 
survived 

cancer, if the money Spent On research 
• h .
IS WOrt It. 

Thursday, November 21, 1991 
Sophomore honored for academics at banquet 
By JEANNE DEVITA News Writer 

Kelly Mann, a Saint Mary's sophomore, was honored by the Independent Colleges and Uni­versities of Indiana, Inc. at the "Realizing the Dream" banquet October 19. Mann, a graduate of Elkhart Memorial High School, received a plaque and attended a ban­quet at the Omni Indianapolis Hotel. Mann acknowledged her high school drill team instruc­tor, Roberta Litherland at the banquet. "I was really pleased to get it," said Mann. "I had no idea they had this kind of an award. was glad to acknowledge Mrs. Litherland for the contribution she made to me as a person," she added. Sponsored by the Eli Lilly En­dowment of Indianapolis, the "Realizing the Dream," project allows 30 private colleges and universities in Indiana to rec­ognize frrst generation college students who have demon­strated superior academic per­formance and leadership in campus involvement, and who have graduated from an Indi­ana high school. 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance, Theatre announces 
ll, 
I 

AUDITIONS 
for 



STEPPING OUT 
l ~ by Richard Harris . directed by Les Baird 
November 20th 7-1 Opm 
November 21st 8-10pm 
Little Theatre, Moreau Center for the Arts 
)~ A winning play about the worst and r' /;.7 , best Of amateur theatre and dance n1~' r 
9 Female Roles/1 Male Role '\_ 
For information, scripts, and an aud'lt'lon 
appointment please call 284-4640 or stop by room 110 Moreau Hall. 
* 
Flower De ve~ Days 

*
*
* 
~~~ 0 •ttft *
* 
..i'rS... Pile• 011 Ro.H *
* 
Ba-......... A Stuflln& PIMta, 
* 
Ftesh ,....., Plush .ARIIIIPJJ1, --·lallleta Packaae price as low as $799 per person! ** clockts-s.-Z77 1Zl1 Join Saint Mary'" College alumnae and friends In Cervlnla. Italy to ski the J
51401J11d • 
Matterhorn Mou1ltaln! * 
The trip Includes: * 
+Round trip air transportation from Chicago O'Hare or New York JFK to * Milan. Italy * 
+Airport taxes and bus transportation from Milan to Cervinla * 
Happy Belated I9th 
+Seven nights lodging * 
+Six day ski lift pass * 
Anumber of side excursions are available including skiing and sightseeing in ~ Zermatt, Switzerland. * Package prtces range from $799-to $1250 and are based on type of accommodations * and U.S. departure point. * For more Information contact: * Barbara Butler Henry '85 * Director of Alumnae Relations ** 
Love, (219) 284-4578 
1fo Registration deadline (including S200 cash deposit per person) is * Mom, ~ December 15, 1991. Balance must be paid by January 15,1992. Visa and MasterCard ~ accepted for payment of balance. * 
~~ * 
'r 
r 
and Ilona SaintMa~'s colleg~ ! 
t l~~~!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J-~ NOTREDAME·INDIANA * ~*******************************************~ 
te;;:~~~t !~l~~~r:~n~ln:0~~:~ '********************************************~ 
ltiS5:rnSS:h:li1~5.1:r~iSlt~l!!~iS!:iS!::SIS5.williSS':S:S:S:S:beS:S:nS:S:el:s:!ediS!ed~ i SKI THE ALPS! ! 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

# f.l1EBRUARY t-9, 1992 # 
AWARENESS GROUP 

* : 
~.!.!e~r~e: Foster ROOO)jn Lafortun * (3rd floor across fr~m Observer) *** 
When: Thursday (11-21-91) 

* 
8:00pm 

*
* 
Anyone welcome, novice or not. *
* 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 

*
* 
----~-­
The Observer

Thursday, November 21, 1991 pageS 
State panel yanks medical license from suicide doctor Kevorkian 
LANSING, Mich. (AP) -The Michigan Board of Medicine on Wednesday suspended the med­ical license of Dr. Jack Kevorkian, who has helped three women kill themselves in the last two years. 
The board voted 8-0 to sus­pend Kevorkian's license even though the retired pathologist, dubbed "Dr. Death," has said repeatedly that he would help more people commit suicide even If he lost his license. 
wit Is clear that suicide Is not a medically accepted and ap­proved practice," said Dr. Ananda Prasad, a board mem­ber. 
One of Kevorkian's attorneys, Michael Schwartz, said Kevorkian still could help peo­ple kill themselves. "Dr. Kevorkian can do anything that any unlicensed human being can do if asked for advice," he said. 
But another board member, Dr. Emma Jane Conklin, said if Kevorkian helps more people commit suicide, it could be in­terpreted as practicing medicine without a license and leave him open to criminal charges. 
No one answered the tele­phone at Kevorkian's Royal Oak home Wednesday. 
Kevorkian, 63, first came to authorities' attention in June 1990 after he helped Alzheimer's patient Janet Ad­kins, of Portland, Ore., die by hooking her up to a suicide ma­chine he invented. Adkins pushed a button to give herself a lethal injection. 
A murder charge against Kevorkian was dismissed after a judge ruled that Michigan has no law against assisted suicide. But he was barred from helping 


"I think, at least from my point of view, there is no im­mediate menace to his activi­ties," he said. "This is a very complex issue, which will take a lot of thought on everybody's part, whether it be the Legisla­ture or us or whomever." 
But Conklin said the board could not wait a year or two for a full investigation and hearing. 
wi think it would behoove us to let the world know we do not consider this as an acceptable practice of medicine," she said. 
Attorney General Frank Kel­
The Observer!Oavid Hungeling 

ley had sought the board's ac­
What's a little mud? 
tion. 

Even rain cannot keep football from being played on the Notre
"Regardless of his motives, 
Dame campus as Pangborn sophomore John O'Lourke dives into a
Dr. Kevorkian's actions appear 
knee-high puddle of mud to make a catch. 
to be beyond the law," he said. 

people commit suicides in Oak­land County. 
However, in October, he called police to an Oakland County cabin about 40 miles north of Detroit where he had helped two women commit suicide. 
Sherry Miller, 43, of Roseville, was suffering from multiple sclerosis and Marjorie Wantz, 58, of Sodus, from a painful but not terminal pelvic disease. 
Wantz gave herself a lethal injection using a device similar to the one Adkins used. Miller inhaled carbon monoxide through a mask. 
The Oakland County prosecu­tor's office is investigating the deaths, but has brought no new charges against Kevorkian. 
Dr. Philip Margolis, who ab­stained from Wednesday's vote, said the medical, ethical and le­gal Issues were too complex to tackle with a summary suspen­sion of Kevorkian's license. 



ueI ExoticI Excrrlng Night In African SongsI DancesI and Drums 
Midawo Gideon Foli Alorwoyie, Chief master drummer andMusa La Lu Mosley, Master drum-maker and dancer from Ghana, West Africa, and hisdrummer, and his Ensemble: the Jiki Band of the Jiki African-A.merican Unity Ensemble, an Affiliated Group ofBallet Company of Chicago. 
the Amencan Conservatory of Music, Chicago. 


page6 The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1991 
Sutherland recounts time spent in captivity 
WIESBADEN, Germany (AP) -Thomas Sutherland said Wednesday that his 6 1/2 years as a Lebanese hostage taught him tolerance, patience and even to pity the captors who put him in chains. 
The 60-year-old educator was kept in chains much of the time after his Beirut kidnapping on June 9, 1985, beaten on one oc­casion until he screamed, and at times languished in an dark, underground cell. 
But two days after being freed, he said that overall, "I 
r 
feel great," like "60 going on 
21."
f "I feel like I'm ready to get ~ out of here and go charging, r but when I got off of my chain r finally I found that I'm a little bit wobbly on my pins. r "I could almost say it's been r worth waiting for, but it was a
t 
heck of a long wait -2,347 days. But it's over, thank God, and we go on from here to the rest of our lives." 
He spoke to reporters at the 
U.S. military hospital at Wies­baden, where he received a clean bill of health from medi­cal officials and was reunited with his wife Jean and daughter Kit. He arrived in Wiesbaden on Tuesday. 
Sutherland said he believed the remammg Western hostages -including Ameri­cans Terry Anderson, Joseph Cicippio and Alann Steen ­would be released in the near future. 
Both Sutherland and Briton Terry Waite said after their re­lease Monday that their captors told them the Americans would soon be freed. 
Sutherland, kidnapped while working as dean of agriculture at the American University of Beirut, said his ordeal had changed him. 
"I've learned a great deal of tolerance. I've learned an enormous amount of patience. I've never spent three hours sit­ting on my duff against a wall just waiting for someone to de-
+ 
American 
Red Cross 
cide what the next move is." 
He said he came to pity the hostage-holders, "because I think they don't appreciate how heinous the thing is that they are doing." 
Sutherland talked about the worst part of his imprisonment: 
"After about a year and a half they put us in a very bad situation, individual cells un­derground, very little light ... I was very depressed. 
"And they'd come in and bring the food in . . . and then leave me to eat in the dark.' Try it some time. It's not much fun." 
He said he was once beaten by his captors. 
"I was a bad boy once so they gave me a biffing.... I asked for it, I guess. I disobeyed their rules." 
His captors beat the soles of his feet "till I just couldn't take it any longer, till I started to scream and they said, 'Quiet, quiet, shut up!"' he recounted. "So they resorted to the rest of the body, but that was the only time they really mistreated me." 
Sutherland said his captors told him they originally wanted to kidnap the president of the American University, not him. 
"I am happy they didn't get him but I wish they hadn't got me," he said. 
The Scottish-born Suther­land, of Estes Park, Colo., be­gan by quoting from a Robert Burns poem. 
Military officials said Suther­land would return home to the United States Thursday on a commercial flight. 
He said he wanted to eventu­ally return to his job. 


An American CompanyServing America. 
,--'~ 
Dick's Marathon . 
ONE FREE TOW TO OUR STATION FOil REPAIR 
FREE ($4S.OO) FREE 
ou Iuiie m-•u.ts +tax: .............
--·-YIIIt 
Happy 18th Birthday Kristin 
xxoxxo 

Priests accused of sexual abuse 
CHICAGO (AP) -At least two Roman Catholic priests accused of sexually abusing children have been removed from their parishes, the archdiocese says. 
A three-member investigatory panel created last month by Cardinal Joseph Bernardin recommended their removal, Joy Clough, a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Chicago, said Tuesday. 
Clough said "a handful" of priests were reassigned at the panel's request. She refused to identify them or say exactly how many were reassigned, but she confirmed the removal of two priests named in news reports. 
She refused to give details of 
FOR•••WEIIIENDSIHOIJDAYS BIR1HDAYSIWEDDINGS MOM'S HOME COOKING 
Council Travel offers domestic student 
airf~~res in selected markets! Call for more 
info, and 11 FREE Travel Catalog! 

Council Travel 
1153 N. 0etroom St., 2nd floor <hicago,ll60610 
312-951-0585 
.AmericanHeart
V Association 

the allegations or the priests' new assignments. But the dio­cese earlier said such priests would not be given new parishes. 
Bernardin created the panel after an uproar over the Rev. Robert Mayer, who was re­moved from St. Odilo Church in suburban Berwyn in July. Church officials acknowledged last month that Mayer left after a teen-age boy accused him of making sexual advances. Later, a 14-year-old girl said Mayer had improperly touched her. Mayer entered a treatment center last summer. 
It was eventually revealed that Mayer had been sued in 1982 for allegedly exposing himself to and trying to molest two altar boys. The lawsuit was settled out of court and Mayer switched parishes. 
"With the heightened public concern, the archdiocese is moving to make sure its poli­cies are up to date and make as certain as possible that young people are not at risk," Clough said. "That's why we're taking this cautious approach." 
The Cook County state's at­torney's office is investigating Mayer, but no charges have been filed, spokeswoman Julie Driscoll said today. 
In the latest cases, Clough confirmed that the Rev. James Ray of Transfiguration Church in Waukonda and the Rev. Ken Ruge of Divine Savior Church in Norridge were among those 
removed. 


"****RIP-ROARING. 
The most rousing, robust and briskly entertaining 'Hamlet' ever." 
-l.arn ~·rt)ot:rll:t. L'S M-\(;AZI~E 
"Oscar nominations!!! Mel Gibson is thrilling and exdting. Brilliantly directed:' 
-l'at C:ullm~. \\'\\UR·T\ 
''A triumph!" 
-lland I"'Atrll"k Stearns. liSA TUUAY 
MEL GIBSON GLENN CLOSE 
HAM.LET 
1 FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI FILM 
WAR.~ER BROS..I~D NELSO~ EKTERHINMENT PRISE>T \\!CO~ PRODUCTIO\ 1 FRA~CO ZEFFIRElll FILM MEL GIBSON GLENN CLOSE "HAMLET" ALAN BATES PAUL SCOFIELD IAN HOLM HELE~.~ BONH.'.MHRTER "i: E~NIO MORRICONE '~::BRUCE DAVEY ":;r;·.·.•~ \\ llll\\1 SHAKESPEARE ''""';:CHRISTOPHER DEVORE& FRANCO ZEFFIRELll:t:~~~~~:· I':DYSOS LOVELL'"' '~'FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI ·---'=-~=· 
Class of 93: 
("'") 

Interested in getting involved in the Junior Class Play? 
Those interested in directing, stage managing or publicity, please contact Sonia Miller X 4 704. Any suggestions welcome. Acting auditions will be held at the beginning of second semester. Watch for si ns. 
Business 
Thursday, November 21, 1991 page 7 
Bush authorizes $1.5 billion in credits for the Soviet Union 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­tance," and that Canada and David Boren, D-Okla., said dent Bush authorized yesterday the European Community will Congress and the administra­$1.25 billion in grain credits extend credit guarantees, tion should put aside political and $165 million in other aid to Madigan said. considerations and regard So­help the Soviet people in the Madigan held out the possibil­viet aid as a national security coming winter. ity of further credits in 1992, investment rather than simple 
The loan credits will go to depending on how the Soviets foreign aid. both the central government handle these credits. "All 12 "We simply must not be and the 12 republics, which have signed for this debt," he frozen in place at this point in have agreed to assume respon­said. "They have put their time," Boren said in a floor sibility for the debt, the White names to the piece of paper speech. "History will judge us House said. that we put in front of them last and the American people will 
"It is aimed at alleviating food week for this transaction." judge us, particularly in the shortages and other dire He said the United States will next generation, if we do not do humanitarian consequences in also set up a model farm in the something now ... the Soviet Union this winter," St. Petersburg area, as well as "It is time for each side to say White House press secretary develop wholesale markets in say we're not going to try to Marlin Fitzwater said. the Moscow area and around score political points on this 
Agriculture Secretary Edward Kiev to instruct Soviet farmers one. It's too serious." Madigan, who visited the Soviet and food distributors. Famine and political decay in Union last month to assess its Madigan said the direct food the Soviet Union could lead to a needs, said $500 million in assistance will be distributed struggle for control of the credits will be made available "to the maximum degree possi­country's nearly 30,000 nuclear immediately, with three further ble" through private voluntary weapons, including a widely installations of $250 million organizations. dispersed arsenal of tactical each in February, March and He said there was "evidence warheads, say intelligence April. of hoarding at the present time" sources. 
In addition, "up to $165 mil­inside the Soviet Union. lion in food assistance will be The announcement came as "We can either seize the op­given to the Soviet people in Democratic and Republican se­portunity" to help those who addition to the $1.25 billion in nators warned of an impending now control the weapons to credit guarantees," Madigan political and social crisis in the mothball or destroy them, Lu­said. Soviet Union and called for a gar said, "or we can witness a 
"We assume that other indus­political truce on the issue of quantum leap in proliferation of trialized nations are going to aid. weapons of mass destruction in help as well with food assis-Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and the next few years." 
Critics say Bush's remark shows inability to deal with the economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­a Lexington, Mass., consulting 
' The remarks had not been it would pass their chamber dent Bush's suggestion that firm. cleared by any of Bush's eco­too, perhaps in the following banks cut credit-card interest It wasn't as if Bush didn't al­nomic policymakers back in week. rates was an offhand remark. ready have troubles enough. Washington. The president's damage-con­This comment set off a stam­The faltering economy was Still, White House advisers trol team was sent out to douse pede that rocked the stock eating away at his popularity thought it wasn't all that bad an the fires, but not before the market and raised new ques­and he was getting swiped at idea, given that card rates had Dow Jones average of 30 indus­tions about Bush's grip on eco­from conservatives within his remained near 19 percent while trial stocks fell 120 points on nomic policymaking. own party even before he trav­other short-term interest rates Friday. After a modest 30-point 
The Plastic Panic of 1991 may eled to New York early last had been declining for months. rally Monday, it plunged an­wind up as just a footnote in week for a $2 million Bush­Bush was quick to take credit other 41 points on Tuesday. economic and political text­Quayle 1992 fund-raising lun­the next day when American books, but it served to indicate cheon. Telephone and Telegraph an­The prospect of imminent the fragility of the stock market When he left Washington, nounced it was dropping rates congressional action on credit and of the underlying economy. there was nothing in his speech on its Universal Card by a full cards was cited by many ana­
Alfonse D'Amato
Many saw it as one more il­text about credit-card rates, nor percentage point. lysts as a main reason for Fri­lustration of the paralysis that had the subject yet been was George Bush, the presi­Then things got ugly. day's initial slide and perhaps seems to be gripping the admin­broached in any White House dent. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., had an indirect bearing on istration on dealing with the utterances on the economy. Before beginning in New who was at the head table for Tuesday's further decline. economy. Bush's only previous mention York, Bush added some re­the Oct. 11 luncheon in New 
"There's no question that of credit cards, in fact, came marks to his 5x7 speech cards York, quickly introduced a "That never occurred to me people are concerned by the last March when he whipped and this is what came out: "I measure to cap credit-card that somebody was going to in­lack of recovery and the lack of out his American Express card was talking to some business­rates at 14 percent, hinting at troduce legislation," Bush told a a coordinated response to it," at a Washington-area elemen­men earlier and I'd frankly like Bush's leadership on the issue. group of reporters Monday. "I said David Wyss, chief financial tary school to prove to a skep­to see credit card rates come It passed the Senate in short didn't think about it then. economist for DRI-McGraw-Hill, tical 8th grader that he really down." order. House leaders predicted Maybe I should have." 
Administration backs rescue of insurance fund 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The the financial system. Democrats already have said Bush administration asked the The administration's hope in they would support the narrow House Wednesday to pass legis­supporting the third version is bill. lation rescuing the insurance to meld the narrow House bill Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., fund that protects bank deposi­with a broader Senate bill in­said he would oppose it, despite tors but dropping the presi­cluding the interstate banking the administration's stance. dent's banking-overhaul pro­provisions. "The problem is going to get posals. The broad bill, however, has worse and worse and worse ... 
The administration is not bogged down in the Senate. without the reforms," he said. giving up on its proposal to al­Lawmakers suspended debate Meanwhile, Speaker Thomas low banks to expand freely on the legislation Tuesday night Foley said the House will not across state lines, but conceded and were trying Wednesday to adjourn without acting on sep­the first move is the Senate's. work out disagreement's pri­arate legislation to commit 
In a statement, the White vately. more taxpayer money into bail­House Office of Management Rep. Joe Moakley, D-Mass. ing out bankrupt savings and and Budget supported the nar­and the chairman of the House loans. row House bill "to move for­Rules Committee, said the nar­"If we get it done, we'llleave. ward with the legislative pro­row bill would be considered by If we don't get it done, we won't cess." the full House Thursday, with leave," Foley told reporters. 
In addition to expanding the no amendments permitted. But, he hinted that lawmakers taxpayer-backed borrowing "I'm deeply worried that if we may consider a stopgap plan, authority of the Federal Deposit do not recapitalize the bank in­saying ''I'm not saying that Insurance Corp., it would surance fund immediately, we under no circumstances will we tighten banking regulation by could cause a financial panic," consider partial funding." increasing bank examinations Rep. Frank Annunzio, D-Ill., and giving regulators power to told the rules panel. "All it The House Banking Commit­seize weak banks before they would take is a few more bank tee, meanwhile, worked toward fail. failures to cause a financial finishing legislation appropriat­
Earlier this month, the House holocaust." ing up to $80 billion for the 


twice defeated legislation con­Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D-Texas Resolution Trust Corp. (RTC), Speaker Thomas Foley said the House of Representatives will not ad­taining some of the administra­and the chairman of the House doubling the total cost of the journ without acting on separate legislation to commit more money to tion proposals for restructuring Banking Committee, said 200 S&L bailout to $160 billion. the savings and loans bailout. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 21, 1991 
_Ihe Obset:\{er. __ 
) n Rox 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edltor-ln..Chlef Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager •••••.Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•....••.•..•.•.••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••.•••.••.David Dieteman Production Manager ....•.....•. Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .•.•••••••••••••••.•John O'Brien Systems Manager •.••.••••..••.•.Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••••••••••Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •.•.•..•....Emily Willett Controller••......•••••..•.....Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report_ed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1mon of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ed~tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
r 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
r r 
~ 
COTH department Prayer chain letter 'not amusing' 
r 
defends movie series 
r Dear Editor: of itself, I do not find offensive. saying "Hocus Pocus" -it should One of my favorite sections in However, it goes on to preach prove about as effective! The Observer is the Classifieds. that "persons must pray this It really disturbs me to see
Dear Editor: class, and our students cannot I enjoy skimming through the prayer three consecutive days" people bastardize somethingThe Department of discuss what they cannot see. 
Personals to see if I can make and a wish will be granted. that so many others take seri­Communication and Theatre From "The Last Temptation of sense of any of the inside jokes Then they must "promise to ously, such as prayer. I'm also sponsors the "Cinema at the Christ" controversy to today, we that usually fill the paper. But publish this dialogue as soon as sorry to see that there are some
Snite" Film Series which still want our students indi­
when I flipped to this typically [the] favor has been granted." of those infamous fanatic screens over 150 films each vidually to have the opportunity lighthearted portion of the pa­I beg your pardon, but to the preachers attending this uni­academic year. The vast major­to make their own decisions per on Monday, November 18, I person who submitted the per­versity.
ity of films screened are taught about art and non-art, obscen­found something that I didn't sonal, and to those of you who, I hope not too many morein our Communication classes, ity and non-obscenity, blas­find very amusing. heaven forbid, actually followed people become taken in by suchbut, in fact, anyone is welcome phemy and non-blasphemy. I One of the entries was headed these instructions, I have some­a hokey practice, and readersr to take advantage on what we would remind the critics that all 
r "Prayer to the Holy Spirit." For thing to say. If you think that accept this "prayer" for exactly
consider to be a significant cul­of our students are over 18 and
r those of you who didn't see it, I your prayers can actually be what it is, a foolish chain letter. 
tural resource on campus. are therefore adults, and that in can best describe it by labeling answered by this. procedure, Kathleen Kanis
Any COTH student who sus­controversies involving 
it a "chain letter for church." It may I also suggest clicking your Pasquerllla West pects a required screening will censorship and freedom the provides a prayer which, in and heels together three times and Nov. 18, 1991 be upsetting, offensive, or blas­academy should always be on 
phemous can choose an alter­the side of freedom. 
native assignment. Students We will continue to offer the 
not enrolled in COTH courses most comprehensive film series 
are never required to see any of we can. We are very proud of 
our films, and I would recom­what many feel is one of the 
mend to those who suspect a best university film series in the 
film might be distasteful not to country, and I would hope that 
see it. the series could be evaluated on 
Each year it seems that one of its total contribution to the our films generates a little university and not on any controversy {one film of 150 is singular film. 
0.667 percent of the total The Department also wishes program offered to the public). to thank the Snite and its direc­
Dear Editor: evoked in so many who visit the next Tom Dooley may haveTwo years ago it was "The Last tor, Dean Porter, for its support I had the pleasure of being on here. been right in that room.
Temptation of Christ;" last year over the years. The Snite is a the Notre Dame campus this On my way back from the But what I would like to rec­it was "Wild at Heart;" this year gem in all ways, and we are past weekend, for the second Grotto after having read, for the ommend to those young men isit is "Truth or Dare." proud that our film series has time in my life. The beauty of second time, Dr. Tom Dooley's that next time, before you passIt goes without saying that all become part of its lustre. 
the campus, the clear blue sky, letter to Fr. Hesburgh, our through the Drive Thru, you
patrons will not like all the Mark C. Pilkinton 
the warm sun reflecting off the group was, I guess brought pass through the Grotto andfilms screened. We don't even Professor & Chair Dome and the brass instru­back to the real world, by a read the last part of Dr. Dooley's • 
like all the films we screen, but Department of Communication 
ments of the band, the inspira­verbal assault of non-stop sex" letter and maybe reflect a bitthey are in the Series because and Theater tion of the Grotto and Sacred ual obscenities, (I am no choir about the basic responsibilities
we wish to· discuss them in Nov.15, 1991 
Heart Church were almost elec­boy). I winced. The people a student has to the dedicated 



trifying. dressed in orange winced. teachers past and present who The source of this sadness perpetuate this most respected 
In touring the campus, we fell was a second story dormitory University. into that lock-step group phe­window whose shelf was deco­You did your alma mater a nomenon of being with the rated with a near complete disservice last Satfirday and you same people, most of whom aluminum pyramid. The young should know it went a lot were wearing the orange and men were no doubt celebrating further than the sidewalk be­white of the University of the passage of an exam, the low. Tennessee. They seemed as completion of a term paper, the Michael A. Flynn, M.D. caught up in the spell of appre­release from academic pres­Akron, Ohio ciation for Notre Dame that is sures etc, etc, and who knows, Nov. 11, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IT 5/ZMS Ul<eAN AIAJFUt BIG fJtAL-15 !3lfiN61r1At:Je OVl?l< A 20­YMR-OW MMJJUANA aA!M. at4S 7Ht!R&, BYANYOfANCb, 50Mb7HIN6 Bt5e YaJIA/t?I?&PtAN­
'Until we lose ourselves 
NIN3 70R£veAL-A8aJTQIJAYtc HAO YaJ 88tiN Pt:RM/TTW 
there is no hope of finding 
'TO SPeAK?' 

ourselves."
\ Henry Miller 

Viewpoint
Thursday, November 21, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND should change Victory March 
Dear Editor: 
As we approach the close of another exciting and fun-filled football season, I feel that it is time to express some thoughts and offer up some suggestions which concern the infamous and ever-popular-"Notre Dame Victory March". 
As I am sure that everybody already knows, the "Victory March" is played by the Notre Dame Band and sung by the Notre Dame fans after each touchdown and also at numer­ous times before, between, and after each game and various other events. 
While I am not complaining about the frequency that this wonderful song is played and sung, I would like to express my grievances about a few choice words found within the hallowed lines of the song. 
Simply put, "Why does this 'Victory March' still remain to be written especially for males when we are quite aware (hopefully) that Notre Dame is now a coeducational university?" 
Since 1972, Notre Dame has been a coeducational facility for undergraduate students. Even though during the first few years of its inception of becoming-coed, the ration of women to men may have been quite low. this has increased dramatically in numbers whereby women now constitute one-third of the total population on campus. 
Even before 1972, the Graduate School of Studies had always been open to women. Now isn't it about time that women can finally be given the chance to be included in this wonderful song and sing of Notre Dame right along with the men? 
To alleviate the problem of trying to figure out a way to make the "Victory March" a politically correct school song as well as keep its glorious and powerful verses intact without it losing any of its vigor , I have come up with a proposition: why not change all the "sons" in the song to "ones"? 
Example -In the first line of the song, wouldn't it be more inclusive if we sang "Rally ones of Notre Dame"? Also, in the seventh line of the chorus, why not change it to "While her loyal ones go marching"? Wouldn't it only be fitting if the song were made more inclusive of the female members of the student body since we do make up a sizable and recognizable percentage of Notre Dame? 
I don't mean to take away from the tradition and history of the "Victory March" of Notre Dame. 
While I am aware that Notre Dame was an all-male school for 130 years, and while this is the song that most people associate Notre Dame with, we, as a coeducational student body and facility, must now catch up with the times and realize that the female members of the student body earned every right to be considered a Domer and in the same context, and included part of the Fighting Irish and the "Victory March". 
I know that after singing the "Victory March" practically three-hundred and four times and always having to label myself as a "son" when I know full well that I am not a "son", I would like to just consider the entire Notre Dame student body as a unified whole, a "one". 

•
The following is an example of the revised version of the "Victory March." Let us catch up with the times so that we, as a student body, can consider Notre Dame one of the few politically correct institutions of higher learning in America. 
ReVised Version: 
Rally ONES of Notre Dame; Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true; Rah, rah for Notre Dame We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame 
Chorus: 

Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal ONES go marching Onward to victory. 
Kathleen Quinn Siegfried Hall Nov. 15, 1991 

Letter criticizing furs displayed intolerance 
Dear Editor: 
Jane E. Smiley's letter typifies the intolerant, judgmental atti­tude of narrow-minded people eager to tell others how to live and act. Why are fur jackets worse than leather jackets in her eyes? Is it because minks deserve to live and cows do not? 
Let's not be hypocritical. Ifyou feel so strongly about one kind of animal hide, then quit wearing another kind and be­come a vegetarian. Ms. Smiley cites God (on her side of course) but fails to mention how God told her it was all right "to take the life of another on of God's creatures" if you prefer steak to grilled cheese sandwich or leather belts to cloth ones. 
Ms. Smiley has chosen an easy target for eschewing: an item she already didn't have. Likewise, it's easy(never mind pointless) for a non-smoker to smoke on the Great American Smokeout Day, for a man to say he'd never consider having an abortion, for a naturalJy thin person to demand that all fat people diet. etc. 

What happened to tolerance? What happened to accepting the fact that other people see things differently and follow their own consciences? What happened to "Judge not, lest ye be judged?" And what hap­pened to "let he who is without sin cast the first stone?" Perhaps Ms. Smiley should ponder that one as she orders a huddleburger. 
Susan Marks Off-Campus Nov. 19, 1991 

ND students seek good grades instead of truth 
Dear Editor: Him as God, or give thought I was nuts. If I wasn't man (who was also an expert After the lecture an obviously 
Over the last 15 years I have thanks... they became to spend the fall alone on his hypnotist!) this was a real faith shaken-up student asked how frequently attended prayer fools ... exchanging the' truth of abandoned hunting farm, I crisis. Even though my parents could what he was saying be meetings and bible studies on God for the lie." "Because they would have to at least be seeing accepted the advice of the psy­true when a class he was taking campus. The recurring desire did not receive the love of truth, a psychiatrist once a week. chiatrist I decided not to let on evolution gave full credence and prayer has usually been for so as to be saved ...God will send I agreed. I just needed some some professional in the name to the theory. The law the students to grow in grace upon them a deluding influence time and freedom to pursue-a of a psuedo-science take away professor shocked the student and knowledge of Jesus Christ. so that they should believe the possible relationship with Jesus. what was left of a newly redis­even more when he stated that I believe God has been answer­lie." I believe the big lie of this Having never read the Bible all covered faith. I simply thanked evolution was a lie and that he ing that prayer. century has been evolution and I already knew about him was the man for his six months of was going to have to choose 
However, the percentage of the philosophy it produces. what I had heard during the help and left. between evolution or monothe­students dedicating their lives St. Peter wrote "But they mass. Another experience was when ism, namely Christianity. to Jesus is small. This is a deliberately forgot that long ago A doctor friend of my dad told I was studying on the 12th floor The decision everyone must mystery in light of the principle by God's word the heavens him of a psychiatrist in of the library next to someone I make is whether to believe God purpose of Notre Dame. At an existed and the earth was Madison, Wis., whom he rec­knew from a prayer meeting. I and his gospel or man and a Alumni mass I heard what I formed out of water and with ommended as being one of the asked him what he was gospel he has created. Who can believe this purpose to be. water. By water also the world best in the state. So during the studying and he said evolution. dispute that most of our "Notre Dame is a place to come of that time was deluged and fall of my senior year I lived He said he was in pre-med and institutions, public schools and learn Christianity. And our destroyed." Besides the alone at the farm reading and that in fact this semester, in all universities are functioning mission as Alumni is to spread scriptures some personal expe­thinking. The only responsibil­five of his classes, the whole primarily from evolutionary it wherever we go in this riences have brought me to this ity I had was driving to Madison first two weeks were on presuppositions (and conse­world." belief. once a week to see this evolution. I showed him some quently are serving money in­
Many students are studying At the end of my junior year psychiatrist. books on the shelf right behind stead of God?) for the wrong reasons. The in 1973 I was majoring in psy­us that refuted the central Unfortunately, even Notre scriptures do say a Christian is chology, primarily studying be­For six months I answered arguments for evolution. Dame has fallen prey to this to study to learn. But it says to havioral psychology, whose what were to me very counterfeit gospel. She has not study to learn how to please suppositions are rooted in the superficial questions. Finally, Naturally, he was a little been very successful in God and how to "correctly han­theory of evolution. I had he asked me what I had been resistant. Nevertheless he defending God's word nor in dle the word of truth." Just to abandoned my faith in the thinking about. When I told listened to what I read him. A producing students eager to study to get grades good Apostles Creed, the mass and him 'God' he freaked out. (He week later I met him again. spread it. To have St. Paul's enough to graduate and get a personal prayer in order to had received his training in With a big smile he remarked words come true for Notre good job is not enough. 'objectively investigate this psychoanalysis in Poland.) He on how ridiculous some of the Dame is my desire: 
Notre Dame is a place to seek other world view. Feeding on told me straight up that I was arguments for evolution were "And ... believe." "And also we the truth and what God's will the words of some modern having a fantasy and was in now appearing. thank God continually because, for our lives should be. This is thinkers I became a miserably danger of entering into psy­The last experience I'll men­when you receive the word of hard work and without a good depressed, trying to smile, chosis. He said hopefully medi­tion occurred at a Thomas God, which you heard from us, effort we might not find either. atheist. cation would correct the error Moore Society lecture by a ND you accepted it not as the word 
The tragedy here is that many I knew I had to leave Notre in my thinking and I would not law professor. He was saying of men, but as it actually is, the are being deceived into working Dame and be ·alone for a while have to go to the mental hospi­that there are really just two word of God, which is at work 
-
more for good grades and suc­but could not explain tal. He would wait until the worldviews: monotheism and in you who believe." cessful careers than they are why ... except that I knew the next visit where he'd explain monism. He said monism in­for truth and God's will. name of Jesus had something to the situation to my parents. clude Hinduism, pantheism, etc. Peter Helland 
St. Paul wrote, "for even they do with it. With only one year Since I had once studied and but its best synonym is evolu­Class of 1978 knew God, they did not honor to go, my dad, an ND grad, believed teaching similar to this tion. Nov. 7, 1991 
Accent 
page 10 Thursday, November 21, 1991 
By ELIZABETH VIDA Accent Writer 
Want to live off-campus next year? How about a nicely furnished, spacious home with free utilities, meals, and laundry? How about a chance to share in a community and learn quite a bit about yourself in the process? 
Such an opportunity exists at the Dismas House of South Bend. Part of the mission of the non-profit Dimas Inc., originated by Father Hickey in Nashville, is to provide a transitional home, a "stepping-stone" into society for ex-prisoners. 
This mission is achieved through the volunteer efforts and donations of local community organizations and churches. 
College students play a big part in the Dismas House efforts. Up to eight students can live at the Dismas House in South Bend at a time. Their interaction with ex-prisoners helps to create a supportive environ­ment during the ex-prisoners' efforts to readjust to life and work after release from prison. 
It can be a great deal of work for students who live at the House, but the potential return on the investment is multifold. 
Mary Beth Fleming, the resident staff person, describes the Dismas House as a transitional home for both ex-prisoners and students alike. 
"The house holds a maximum of 16 people, ideally an eight to eight ratio," according to Fleming. 
"Since this house opened in 1986," said Fleming, "we've had at most six students. Each resident pays $53 a week, with utilities included. 
The first week is free for the ex­prisoners, and then the rent is charged to their account, which they pay when they can get a job and a savings account going." 
The director of Dismas of Michiana is Bambi Guess~Garner, and another part-time staff-member is Sue Kintzele. 
Kintzele commented that "all the residents here are the same, and everyone does their share of chores." 
The residents' efforts are obvious in the cleanliness and excellent appearance of the historical home. 
The home is also co-ed. In a photo collage of past residents, Kintzele pointed out two residents who had 
stone 
Dismas House provides opportunity for ex-prisoners to readjust to life 

later married. "Two students?" was the first response. "No-a resident and a student," she replied. 
The length of time spent in the House varies from resident to resident. 
"When the residents are submitting their plans to the prison boards, they must consent to a minimum of 90 days in the House," explains Fleming. "Some stay as long as nine or 10 months, 
Stepping 
depending on their job situation. We 
want them to be able to stand on their own feet, with a solid savings account when they leave." 
"Prisoners submit applications to Dismas as early as three years before their out-date. A review board then holds three interview sessions with each potential candidate, coordinating their efforts with the prisoners' parole officers. We usually prefer to take only candidates who are community-less or family-less," said Fleming. 
"Hopefully, through the-efforts of the Dismas House,"continued Fleming, "residents will get a feeling of what true family and community is. The name of the organization was inspired by the good thief Dismas who was on the cross next to Jesus, and whom Jesus forgave. We provide a chance for ex-prisoners to start their own reconciliation with society.." 
It looks as if Dismas Inc. works. 75 to 80 percent of the ex-prisoners who live in the houses before re-en­tering society never return to prison, compared with much lower statistics for other ex-inmates. 
This semester there are no students living in the house, but Monday through Friday, different groups from the community come to cook and share in dinner with the residents. Every resident must attend the communal dinner at 6:30 p.m. 
"Brother Bonaventure, rector of Keenan Hall, brings a crew of students every Monday night and oversees the menu," Fleming noted. 
A group usually departs from the back of Keenan Hall every Monday around 4:15p.m. "Last week we had a whole theology class come and cook dinner," Fleming added. 
The food comes from donations from local groups and restaurants. Other general funds for the House come from grants from The United Way or other organizations. 
All of the proceeds from the Flanner-Siegfried Players' pro­duction of "The Christmas Carol," which will be performed at 8:15 
p.m. on December 5, 6, and 7 at Washington Hall, will benefit Dismas of Michiana. 
Any students who would like to try a new and rewarding experience for a semester, or would like more information, can call Dismas of Michiana at (219) 233-8522. 
'Shakespearean Odyssey' entertains with wit 
By SHANNON SCHWARZ Accent Writer 
Jonathan Frid is coming to Saint Mary's College with a dark past behind him. Many may remember him as the villain-turned-hero vampire, Barnabas Collins on daytime television's unique gothic soap opera "Dark Shadows." 
But these days Frid is sinking his teeth into something new. The veteran actor now relies on the power of his voice rather than a show of fangs to get a reaction from the audience. 
Frid will be presenting his "Shakespearean Odyssey" at 8 p.m. on Saturday, November 23 in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's College. He will be drawing on his years of experience with various touring companies in order to entertain his audience in a true 
-
Shakespearean fashion. 
While the reigns of the two Richards underscore the tragedy of both fool and fiend, Frid also presents the drunken tomfoolery of the trio Stephano, Triniculo and Caliban of "The Tempest." 
Frid also includes excerpts from other comedies, such as "A Midsummer Night's Dream," "Much Ado About Nothing" and "As You Like It." 
"He imbues the show with a wonderful balance of dramatic intensity, elegant lyricism and that unique Elizabethan wit. 
"For devotees of Shakespeare it is a glorious tribute. For those new to the bard it is an auspicious and entertaining introduction," stated a representative of Clunes Associates, Frid's production company. 
Frid has been touring the United 
mind." 

Frid refused to comment further on this description, saying, "It must be experienced." 
Before "Dark Shadows," Frid was primarily a stage actor. He worked in a number of America's most celebrated regional theaters, including the Williamstown Theatre Festival, the Old Globe Theatre in San Diego and the American Shakespeare Festival under the direction of John Houseman. He toured nationally in the Festival's acclaimed production of "Much Ado About Nothing" with Katherine Hepburn. 
Frid has appeared in numerous Broadway and Off-Broadway productions, including the 1986 revival of "Arsenic and Old Lace," in which he . co-starred with Jean Stapleton, playing the madcap homicidal maniac Jonathan 
partner Mary O'Leary to tourr on the college circuit. • 
"Jonathan Frid's Fools and Fiends," the first in the series, has had great success, not only at universities, but also at conferences, theaters, schools, libraries, corporaffi functions and even on a cruise ship. 
In 1989, Mr. Frid added two new programs to his repertoire, "Jonathan Frid's Shakespearean Odyssey" and "Jonathan Frid's Fridiculousness." 
Roberta Hines, from the Office of Special Events at Saint Mary's College, stated, "Jonathan Frid's reputation precedes him. We are looking forward to his performance and are expecting a good crowd." 
Tickets are $3 for Saint Mary's students, $5 for Notre Dame students and $6 for all others. Tickets are on 
The actor structures his program around three of the author's most celebrated masterpieces, "King Richard II," "The Tempest" and "King Richard III." 
States with a series of one-man shows for the past four years. "Shakespearean Odyssey," the third in his series, invites the audience to participate in what the actor refers to as "the theatre of the Brewster. Frid was saluted by critics for his original performance of the role. 
Earlier in 1986, prior to the Arsenic tour, he formed his own production company, Clunes Associates, with sale now at the Saint Mary's Box Office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Monday-Friday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa and Mastercard orders can be placed by calling 284-4626. 

---------------------------.------------------------------~------------------------~--.-----------------------------­
page The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1991 
Smith may leave OSU for USC 
Sophomore running back given permission to transfer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Robert Smith's future is in the mail. 
Ohio State athletic director Jim Jones said Wednesday that his office has sent a letter that would enable the former Buckeye tailback to discuss a transfer to Southern Cal. 
Southern Cal coach Larry Smith said NCAA rules prohibit anyone from acting at his end until the letter arrives. 
"Robert Smith contacted us, but we immediately told him that we couldn't talk to him un­til we received a letter of re­lease from Ohio State," Larry Smith said. "We have not received that letter yet." 
Robert Smith left the Ohio State team in August, saying that the coaching staff did not give academics a high priority and had little regard for player safety. He is currently attending classes at Ohio State and is on a track scholarship. 
He spoke with Jones on Monday and requested a letter that could lead to a transfer to Southern Cal, his second choice when he selected Ohio State in the spring of 1990. 
"We had a chat, let's put it that way," Jones said. "It's im­portant that we sat and chatted. We certainly aren't enemies." 
Jones declined to discuss the conversation. 

"Robert is the kind of young man who I don't think ... enjoys having his thoughts discussed by other people," Jones said. 
Robert Smith could not be reached for comment Wednesday. 
Under NCAA transfer rules, he would become eligible to play football for the Trojans in 1993. Smith would have two seasons of football eligibility remaining. 
Jones said he did not try to discourage Smith from trans­ferring to USC. 
Smith's 1,126 rushing yards broke Archie Griffin's freshman rushing record at OSU last sea­son. 
' Rocket' not worried about cold 
WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) -Raghib "Rocket" Ismail isn't worried about temperatures in the teens when the Toronto Argonauts face the Calgary Stampeders in the Grey Cup on Sunday. 
"Hey, man, _it can't be any worse than when we played Penn State when I was at Notre Dame (in 1989)," said Ismail, who is from Wilkes­Barre, Pa. "It was 10 below with a wind-chill factor of 25 below. My feet were so cold I put them on the heater in front of my bench. It wasn't until I smelled the rubber burning that I realized my shoes were on frre." 
In that game, Ismail rushed nine times for 84 yards as the 

As of Tuesday, Environment Canada had only a one-word forecast for the game: "cold." 
The Observer accapts classlflads avery business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from t 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary"s office. 309 Haggar Collage Canter. Deadline lor next-day dassiflads Is 3p.m. All classlfiads
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cants par character par day. including all specas. 
NOTICES  NEED RIDE TO NY/NJ/LI AREAl! Will share expenses and help drive.  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200,  SPRING BREAK '921 SUPER­SPECIAL PRICES if you make  HEY KEENAN LAY THAT PISTOL DOWN II  HAIL TO THE VICTORS  
Call Emily x4032  86 vw $50  reservations before Christmas!  CONGRATULATIONS  
87 MERCEDES $100,  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas from  GRACE8-D  
TYPING AVAILABLE  65 MUSTANG $50.  only $399 including roundtrip  Keenan  1991 SECTION FOOTBALL  
287-4082  MATURE ACTRESS SOUGHT FOR  Choose from thousands starting  airfare, great hotel, and much morel  Your illegal cheerleaders  CHAMPIONS  
SERIOUS STUDENT FILM. small  $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording  THE BEST AVAILABLEI1-800-331­ were really ugly  
time commitment. call x371 0  Reveals Details 801-379-2929  3136.  IN YOUR FACE 9-D  
Buy and Sell used books  Copyright  
Pandora 's Books--newbooks and  #IN11KJC.  How many Vermin does it take to  
the NY Tlmes tool I  FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS  screw in a lightbulb?  SPRING BREAK '921 THE  
corner of NO ave and Howard  to students or student organizations  HAPPY TWO YEARS JANICEI  3 • 2 from Holy Cross & 1 from  ULTIMATE VACATION including  
233-2342/10-5:30 everyday  promoting our Spring Break  For Sale:  offcampus.  airfare, hotel, all meals. beverages.  
Packages. Good Pay & Fun. Call  Nintendo with Tecmo Bowl, RBI2  MY HEART BELONGS TO YOU I  How many Knights does it take to  watersports, and morel This trip is  
CMI. 1-800-423-5264.  and more. $50. Call x1471  screw in a lightbulb?  not for everyone; but If you want  
ALTERATIONS AND  LOVE, ME  None, the refs do it for them  THE BEST for only $799, Call1­ 
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL  800-331-3136.  
259-8684.  ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! We need pictures for the JPW slide  TICKETS  Can you get me close to  
show. Please bring horizontal  Going to CLEVELAND this  WASHINGTON D.C. ?  Need a ride to Columbus, OH. this  
WORD PROCESSING  pictures (no alcohol showing) to  selling a one way ticket from  weekend? If so I need ride,  Will help drive, pay gas, etc.  weekend (11/22). Can you help?  
256-6657  Student Activities or your dorm  south bend to rochester on tue  will split gas.  Please call Todd x2321  Call Kaley, 283-4012.  
President as soon as possible!  evening, nov.26. call x4362 or 284­ call John 1146  
Don't forget to put your name and  5429. price is negotiable.  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  address on each picture so they can  00  THE COPY SHOP  00  THE METHA-TONES  
237-1949  be returned. DEADLINE: Dec. 2nd  PERSONAL  Philadelphia -S. Jersey Club  LaFortune Student Center Copies as low as 3¢ in volumel  CLUB 23 Thurs Nov 21 Bridgit's Sat Nov 23  
CHRISTMAS BUS  WE LOVE LOU ... REED.  
PORTRAITS  
GREAT X-MAS PRESENTS FOR  $40,000/yr/ READ BOOKS and TV  HELLO? I'm dizzy....  Leaving: Friday 12/20  
FAMILY/FRIENDSI  Scripts. Fill out simple  Returning: Monday 1/13  SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI  ATTENTION: ANYONE WHO  
PENCIL PORTRAITS FROM  "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun,  Cost: $140 roundtrip  REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.  WANTS TO HAVE AN INCREDIBLE  
PHOTOGRAPH  $30  relaxing at home, beach, vacations.  Ding, dong, the lizard king's dead.  COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S  THANKSGIVING IN HAWAII  
CALL KATIE 284-4457  Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24  Sign ups at Lafortune info. desk.  LARGEST AND MOST  I have 2 roundtrip tlx to Honolulu  
Hour Recording 801-379-2925  SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK  that I need to sell. I will cut  
Copyright #IN 11 KEB.  stronger than burt  Monday 11/25@ 3:00-5:00  TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS  someone a major deal!! I'm selling  
7:00-9:00  ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS  them for about 60% off, but I'm  
''CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS"  REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE  willing to negotiate. Call me please  
For anyone going to Long Island,  SPRING BREAK REPS NEEDED  Who's on the team?  Any questions contact Mike Folgia  TRIPS AND CASHI WE PROVIDE  and make me an offerlll x3457  
NYC. or NJI Safe travel, VCR, and  @273-2103.  EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL  
$110 round trip. Sign up In  EARN CASH AND FREE TRAVEL  1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE  
LaFortune(O"Hara room) on WED. 12/4, 8-10PMII  SELLING TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, AND FLORIDA. CALL  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me  UISE $500...$1 000•••$1500.  INFORMATION.  KEENAN 7 ZAHM 3 ONCE LOSERs­ 
LOST/FOUND LOST: NIKON 6006 CAMERA WITH 28-85 MM LENS . ALSO, LOST A DARK GREEN  STS @ 1-800-648-4849. I need ride to Iowa City or vicinity for Thanksgiving! Call Jen x2198. FOR RENT  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. --TOM WESTRICK-­--TOM WESTRICK-­--TOM WESTRICK-­You weenie in INSBRUCK  IFOOLI ~~~r·:·J~ FU ..D  Guitarist/Songwriter looking for lead guitarist and bassist to form an original folk-rock band. Call Nick x2348 EARN $2000.  ALWAYS LOSERS MATURE ACTRESS SOUGHT FOR SERIOUS STUDENT FILM small time commitment call x3710  
PATAGONIA JACKET WITH GRAY LINING. BOTH LOST THE WEEKEND OF THE TENNESSEE GAME. REWARD. CALL KEVIN JOHNSTON 1-800-727-0029. LOST: DIAMOND AND RUBY TENNIS BRACELET TUES. NIGHT  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 BEDROOM IN A HOME $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, LAUNDRY, ETC. CALL PAUL 232-2794.  Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock wish you well in that land of easy "A". May your skiing ever be in those wonderful mounds of Austrian mountains. --TOM WESTRICK TOM WESTRICK TOM  RAISING For r.our fraternity,soroflty, team or other campus organization. A8S01U111Y' NO INVISTMINJ RIQUIRIDI  + FREE SPRING BREAK TRI North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students, organizations. fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun Bahamas. Daytona and Panama  Just because I didn"t take the offyr. you don't have to avoid me like the plague. "Attention" MILWAUKEE AREA NO STUDENTS Christmas break bus to Milwaukee area leaves eve. Dec.20 returns eve  
AFTER 7 ON NORTH QUAD. IF  WESTRICK-­ CALL 1·800-950-8472, ext. 50  Jan.13  
FOUND CALL BROOKE @ 283­ 
 Call Kathryn x2904 or Scott x3310  
4845  FURNISHED APT. NEAR NO  for info  
COZV 2 BDRM. $285  SPRING BREAK '92-YOU'VE  
LOST: YELLOW AND BLACK SWATCH SOMEWHERE  DEP. REF. 288-7207.  ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE_ SO DON'T BLOW ITII DO IT IN JAMAICAICANCUN STARTING AT  ACNE  Makin' copies  
BETWEEN ACC AND PEACE MEMORIAL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-1340. WANTED  Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call 277-8866 Tues/Sat. 1Oam/5pm.  A LOW $4591 ORGANIZE GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE 1-800-426­77101 '""IRISH GARDENS'*'"  A NASTY FOUR LEITER WORD If you had started  FREE TRAVEL Air couriers and Culseshlps. Students also needed Christmas, Spring and Summer lor Amusement Park enployment.  
3 BDRM. HOUSE $390 + UTILITIES. AVAILABLE NOWI900  'This weekend 22nd & 23rd  on clear Care Acne  Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. F-3397  ....  
PART·TIME CLEAN-UP HELP NEEDED AT BRIDGET'S $6/HR.  BLOCK OF E. LASALLE. 271-0373.  Irish Gardens will extend hours until 6:30PM.  Treatment 30 days  POSTAL JOBS AVAILABLE  
APPLY WED. THRU SAT. AT 7:30 PM OR CALL 271-0373. NO MINORS. RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH OVER THANKSGIVING Will help drive, pay gas. give some of Mom's homemade pie. GEORGE X1002-TRACEY X3864 HELPIIIII I need a ride to HARRISBURG_YORK AREA for Thanksgiving Break. (If you're going to BaHimore that's good,also.) Please. Call Mike x1670  FOR SALE Pioneer speakers: , 4-way 200Watt. nice. Jon 271-1562 1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GRAY LEATHER. LOADED W/EVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES. $18,500 277-3784. N.D. YEARBOOKS 1918, 1920, 1925. ROCKNE-MINT CONDITION $75.00 EACH. IF INTERESTED CALL 291-9025.  Lots of dances so come in & pre-order!! IRISH GARDENS OPEN TIL 6:30PM SPRING BREAKII Bahamas Party Cruise $2791 Panama City $991 S. Padre $1991 Cancun $4691 Jamaica $3991 Kathleen 283-3958, Lisa 283­4667. LOOK OUT KID THEY KEEP IT ALL HID  ago, you would be clear of Acne today For free samples, information on ho Clear Care's topical medications work, Call our Skin Care Information Line (800) 435-353~  RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOWI DAYTONA BEACH ""'"lft14 Many pos~ic>ns. Great benefits. saim/PADftiSLAND -'f2B Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. P-3 5 AND 7 NIGHTS f r;::=========::::'STEAMBOAT ...,. f22 2, 5 AND 1 NIGHTS REPOSSESSED & IRS PANAMA CITY BEACH ,.,mlf22 7 NIGHTS FORECLOSED HOMES avaJiable at below marl<et value.FORT LAUDERDALE ,..,.1fJ6 7 NIGHTS Fantastic savings! You repair.HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,..,. lffJ Also S&L ballou1 properties.5 AND 1 NIGHTS Call 805 682-7555 Ext. H-6237 MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS 5 AND 1 NIGHTS SEIZED CARS,lith Annual Celebration! trucks. boats, 4wheelers. TOLL FRIIINFOIIIATION I HIUVlTIONI motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA 1•800•3 21•5911 :wailable your area now. ~~ all (805)682-7555 Ext. C-5921  -- 




Thursday, November 21, 1991 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon 
w 

L T Pts CF Gil. 
Washington 15 0
5 30 101 63 NY Rangers 13 1 74
8 27 68 New Jersey 
12 9 0 24 79 61 Pittsburgh 10 8 
3 23 84 82 Philadelphia 8 10 17 57 

55 DE Ed Mazuchowski, jr. Stanford NY Islanders 7 10 2 , 6 71 80
OB Jim Passinault, sr. DE Chuck Hurley, jr. Zahm Adame
RB Dave Dettore, so. Keenan Dlvlelon DT Scott Sauer, so. Keenan Montreal 15 6 2 32 74 38
RB Matt Seng, jr. Zahm 
Hartford 

61
DT Jeff Bergomotto, jr. Keenan 9 7 3 21 61
WR Peter Couri, fr. Zahm Buffalo 8 9 2 18 53 60 WR Justin Moran, Jr. Stanford LB John Langenfeld, Jr. Keenan Boston 7 8 4 18 65 65 
Quebec 3

LB Joe Mileti, sr. Keenan 15 1 7 58 88TE Kevin Casey, sr. Zahm 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
LB Dave Dettore, so. Keenan
T Tom Fleming, jr. Keenan Norrie Dlvlelon T Brian Kelly, so. Stanford CB Brian Shindler, so. Keenan w L T Pts CF Gil. 
Detroit 12

CB Rich Toohey, so. 8 2 26 88 71
G Joe Mileti, sr. Chicago 10 6 25 73S Dustin Klingler, sr. 5 81 
G Bill McCarthy, so. St. Louis 8 6 5 21 65 75 Minnesota 8 
17 67
C John Langenfeld, jr. S Jon Boita, jr. 10 64 
Toronto 5 14 3
PK Matt Davis, jr. P Mike Moser, jr. 13 51 78 Smythe Dlvlelon Vancouver 1 4 5 
3 31 84 55 Los Angeles 9 5 75
7 23 81 Winnipeg 9 4 61
6 22 65 Calgary 9 
6 3 21 80 67 Edmonton 7 
12 3 17 82
08 Chris Hammond, fr. DE Matt Fitzpatrick, fr. Alumni 66
Zahm San Jose 3 18 7 54 107 RB Dave Ludwig, sr. Alumni DE Mike Towers, jr. Stanford Tueeday'e Gamea 
RB Lamar Guillory, Jr. Stanford DT Leo Story, sr. Cavanaugh Detroit 4, Chicago 
N.Y. Islanders 7, Minnesota 4
WR Willie Alvarado, fr. DT Joe Westerveh, sr. Keenan
Alumni N.Y. Rangers 4, Vancouver 3 WR John Cihak, sr. Alumni LB Tom Ysursa, fr. Zahm Los Angeles 3, San Jose 2, OT Wedneaday'e Gamee
TE Bobby States, jr. Alumni LB Matt Seng, jr. Zahm 
Late Games Not Included T Brian Kelly, so. Stanford LB Brendan Fitzpatrick, sr. Alumni Buffalo 3, Boston 1 
T Mike O'Donnell, so. Zahm CB Lamar Guillory, jr. Stanford New Jersey 6, Washington 5, OT Pittsburgh 5, Philadelphia 2
G Jim Marrone, sr. Cavanaugh CB Kevin Jackson, so. Cavanaugh 
Toronto at St. Louis, (n) G Curtis Plaza, fr. Zahm S Chris Barnette, sr. Keenan N.Y. Islanders at Winnipeg, (n) Thuraday'a Gamea
C Rich Riley, jr. S Paul Kell, so. Zahm 
Montreal at Quebec, 7:35 p.m.
PK Skip Ecker, jr. P Matt Heslin, sr. Zahm 
Vancouver at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Frlday'a Gamea Chicago at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. 
Hartford at New Jersey, 7:35 p.m. Boston at Washington, 7:35 p.m.
TRANSACTIONS 
Toronto at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. BASEBALL Calgary at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.
Taylor, outfielder, from Las Vegas of the American League 
Pacific Coast League. Purchased the BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Purchased the 
contracts of Doug Brocail, pitcher, and Luis contract of Cesar Devares, catcher, from 
Lopez, second baseman, from Wlchtta of the 
Rochester of the International League. NFL STANDINGS
Texas League. Assigned Pat Clements and NBA STANDINGS Placed Dave Johnson, pitcher, on waivers Tim Scott, pitchers, and Kevin Ward,lor the purpose of giving him his 
outfielder, outright to Las Vegas. Placed EASTERN CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCE unconditional release. 
John Costello, pitcher, on waivers lor the Atlantic Dlvlelon Eael CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Added Chris 
purpose of giving him his unconditional w L Pet. w L T Pet. w PAHoward, Greg Perschke and Johnny Ruffin, release. Claimed Mike Linskey, pitcher, off Philadelphia 7 3 .700 Buffalo 10 1 0 .909 342 238pitchers, to the 40-man roster. 
waivers from the Battlmore Orioles. Miami 6 3 .667 112 N.Y. Jets 6 5 0 .545 231 
206
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Claimed Derek SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Named Rick Orlando 5 4 .556 I 112 Miami 5 6 0 .455 207 
248
Lllllqulst, pitcher, off waivers from the San 
Miller coach of San Jose of the Calllomla Boston 6 5 .545 1 112 New England 3 8 0 .273 t56 223Diego Padres. Designated Mike Walker, League. Named Gary Robinson and Elanls New York 5 5 .500 2 Indianapolis 10 .091
0 106 261pitcher, for reassignment. 
Westbrooks terrttorlal scouts. Announced Washington 4 7 .364 3 112 DETROIT TIGERS-Named Rick Rlzzs and 
the retirement of Grady Hatton, major New Jersey 2 7 .222 4 112 Central Bob Rathbun radio announcers. 
league scout. Houston 9 02 .818 298 168TEXAS RANGERS----Aaalgned Wayne Pioneer League Central Dlvlelon Cleveland 4 07 .364 2t1 232Rosenthal, pitcher, and Kevin Belcher, ~ 
HELENA BREWERS-Named Joe Easlon Chicago 7 2 .778 Pillsburgh 4 7 0 .364 216 259outfielder, outright to Oklahoma City of the general manager. Atlanta 6 4 .600 112 Cincinnati 10
1 0 .091 170 312American Association. Signed Mike Berger, 
FOOTBALL Detroit 5 6 .455 3 catcher, to a minor-league contract. 
National Football League Milwaukee 5 6 .455 3 Weet TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Purchased the 
NFL-Aned Andre Waters, Philadelphia Cleveland 4 5 .444 3 Denver 8 3 0 .727 216 179contracts of Robert Perez and Nigel Wilson, Eagles cornerback, $7,500 for his attack on Indiana 4 8 .333 4 112 Kansas City 7 4 0 .636 
227 160outfielders, from Dunedin of the Aorlda Eric Martin, New Orieans wide receiver, Charlolle 3 9 .250 5 112 LA Raiders 7 4 0 .636 192
203State League, and Ryan Thompson, 

alter a game on Oct. 13. Seattle 
5 6 0 .455 199 173outfielder, and Jell Kent, second baseman, 
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Waived Lynn WESTERN CONFERENCE San Diego 3 8 0 .273 195 242from Knoxville of the Southam League. 
James, wide receiver. Signed Shane Garrett, Mldweet Dlvlalon Signed Gene Vanlnlttl, third baseman, to a 
wide receiver. W L Pet. CJl NATIONAL CONFERENCE minor-league contracl. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Fired Tom Braatz, San Antonio 7 1 .875 Eaat 
National League 
executive vice president of football Houston 7 2 . 778 112 w L T Pet . w PACHICAGO CUBS-Purchased the contracls 
operations. Utah 6 5 .545 2 112 x-Washlngton 1 I 0 1.000 139
0 361of Jell Harsock and Turk Wendell, pitchers; INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Waived James Denver 4 4 .500 3 Philadelphia 6 5 0 .545 182 163Pedro Castellano and Elvin Paulino, Coley, tight end. Re-signed Cornell Dallas 4 7 .364 4 112 Dallas 6 5 0 .545 219 225Infielders, and Kevin Roberson, outfielder, 

Holloway, defensive back. Signed Malt Minnesota 8 .111 6 112 N.Y. Giants 6 5 0 .545 181 183from Iowa of the American Association. 
Jaworski, linebacker, to the practice squad. Phoenix 4 8 0 .333 146 239Assigned Steve Adkins, outright to Iowa. 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Placed Jarvis Pacific Dlvlalon Released Erik Pappas, catcher. Named Brad on Injured Re­7 .778
Williams, safety, reserve. Golden Stale 2 Central Mills manager and Rick Kranitz pitching 
signed Mike laquanlello, safety. Seallle 7 3 .700 112 Chicago 9 2 0 .818 212 172coach of Iowa; Marv Foley manager and Bill 
SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Claimed Randy LA Lakers 6 3 .667 1 Detroit 7 4 0 217
.636 224
Earley pitching coach of Charlotte of the Kirk, linebacker-long snapper, off waivers Portland 6 4 .600 1 112 Minnesota 6 6 0 .500 234 207Southam League; BUI Hayes manager and from the Cleveland Browns. Released Mark LA Clippers 5 6 .455 3 Green Bay 2 9 0 .182 171 213Lester Strode pitching coach of Winston­Walczak, tight end, and Chariea Arbuckle, Phoenix 3 8 .279 5 Tampa Bay 2 9 0 .182 130 255Salem of the Carolina League; Steve 
tight end. Sacramento 3 8 .273 5 Roadcap manager and Ray Sadeckl pitching 
HOCKEY Tueedey'a Gamea We at coach of Peoria of the Midwest League; Greg 
Nellonaf Hockey League New Jersey 122, Sacramento 118 New Orieans 9 2 o .818 229 
124
Mehlberg manager and Stan Kyles pitching 
EDMONTON OILERS-Recalled Steven Seattle 113, Washington 106 Atlanta 6 5 o .545 219 229coach of Geneva of the New York-Penn 
Rice, right wing, from Cape Breton of the Miami 111, Lilah 91 San Francisco 5 6 0 .455 21 8 
155
League, and Phil Hannon manager, Joe 
American Hockey League. Houston 90, New York 79 LA Rams 3 B 0 .273 181 256Houaey pttchlng coach, and Gil Jubskl coach 
MONTREAL CANADIENS-Signed Brent Milwaukee 127, Charlotte 104 x-clinched playoff berth. of Huntington of the Appalachian League. Gilchrist, forward, to a 1-year contract. Dallas 96, Denver 93 Sunday'a Gamea 
CINCINNATI REDS-Purchased the 
QUEBEC NORDIOUES-Named Andre Savard Portland 132, LA Clippers 112 Chicago 31, lneo.dnapolis 17 contract of Jacob Brumfield, outfielder, 
assistant coach. LA Lakers 103, Phoenix 95 Philadelphia 17, Cincinnati 10 from Nashville of the American Association. 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Assigned Pat Wedneaday'a Gamea Denver 24, Kansas Ctty 20 Waived Luis Quinones. Infielder, for the 
Macleod, delenseman, to the Kansas City Late Games Not Included Minnesota 35, Green Bay 21 purpose of giving him his unconditional Blades of the International Hockey League. Boston 116, I ndlana 101 New York Jets 28, New England 21release. 
East Coast Hockey League Philadelphia 114, Miami 1 07 Atlanta 43, Tampa Bay 7
.... 
HOUSTON ASTROS--Announced the 
LOUISVILLE ICEHAWKS-Signed M~ch Lilah 107, Orlando 102 Washington 41, Pittsburgh 14retirement of Mike Scott, pttcher. 
Wilson, right wing. Traded Ron Aubrey, left Charlotte 109, Cleveland 108 San Francisco 14, Phoenix 1 0 Purchased the contracts of Shane Reynolds, 
wing, to the Toledo Storm for cash. Atlanta 116, Sacramento 1 04 Detroit 21, Los Angeles Rams 10 pitcher, from Jackson of the Texas League 
Suspended Patrick Cloutier, defenseman, Seattle 91, Detroit 86 New York Giants 22, Dallas 9and Riehle Simon, pitcher, and Oriando 
Indefinitely, lor leaving the team. New York 92, Dallas 89 San Diego 24, New Orieans 21 Miller, Infielder, from Tucson of the PacHic 
SOCCER San Antonio 113, Minnesota 106 Los Angeles Raiders 31, Seattle 7Coast League. 
MaJor Soccer League Denver at Phoenix, (n) Houston 28, Cleveland 24MONTREAL EXPOS-Purchased the 
CLEVELAND CRUNC~Released Theo Chicago at Golden State, (n) Monday'• Game contracts of Jonathan Hurst and Pete Young, 
Kulsdom, defender. Signed Kal Haaskivi, Thuraday'a Gamea Buffalo 41, Miami 27pitchers; Matt Stairs. outfielder; Bob Natal, 
forward. New Jersey at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Sundey, Nov. 24 
catcher, from Harrisburg of the Eastern 
-COLLEGE Washington at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Buffalo at New England, 1 p.m.
League; Greg Colbrunn and Tim Laker, 
ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE-Announced Minnesota at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Dallas at Washington, 1 p.m.
catchers, and Wll Cordero, Infielder, from 
the addition of men's and women's Portland at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Detroit at Minnesota, 1 p.m.
Indianapolis of the American Association. 
swimming and diving as championship Frlday'a Gamea Houston at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m.· Placed Cesar Hernandez, outfielder, on 
sports, effective for the 1992-93 season. Sacramento at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Indianapolis vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, I p.m.
waivers for the purpose of giving him his 
LA SALLE-Named Irving "Moon" Indiana at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Kansas City at Cleveland, 1 p.m.
unconditional release. Assigned Chris 
Mondscheln, assistant track and field coach. Atlanta at Philadelphia, 8 p.m. Los Angeles Raiders at Cincinnati, 1 p.m.
Myers, pitcher, outright to Indianapolis of 
N.C. CHARLOTIE-Announced the New York at Detroit, 8 p.m. New York Giants at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m.
the American Association. 
resignation of Gary Robinson, baseball Denver at Lilah, 9:30 p.m. Miami at Chicago, 4 p.m.
PITISBURGH PIRATES-Claimed Terry 
coach, to become a scout for the San LA Clippers at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Phoenix, 4 p.m.McDaniel, outfielder, off waivers from the 
Francisco Giants. Golden State at Portland, 10 p.m. Denver at Seattle, 4 p.m.
New York Meta. 
Chicago at Seattle, 10 p.m. San Diego at New York Jets, 4 p.m.
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Purchased the 
San Antonio at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Atlanta at New Orleans, 8 p.m.
contraciS of Dave Staton, Infielder, and Will Monday, Nov. 25 
San Francisco at Loa Angeles Rams, 9 p.m. 
------------------~----~--~~~­
Thursday, November 21, 1991 The Observer page 13 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Sugar 
Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday. Nov. 21 through Wednesday, Dec. 4. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each student may present four IDs. All tickets will be issued at Notre Dame upon payment. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski Club still has three spots open for our Christmas Trip to Crested Butle, CO. Call now to reserve your spot for the best extreme skiing out west. Questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be going to a service at the Granger Community Church tonight. Meet in the basement of Farley at 6:30 p.m. sharp. We will be back by 8:30. For more info, call Mark Zoia at 283-1586. 

•ND/SMC 
Salllng Team: The sweatshirts are in. If you are interested in buying one before break call Moira 284-5344. We will also be selling them at the meeting Monday, Dec. 2 in O'Shag room 204 at 7:00p.m. 

•Sports 
briefs are accepted every day except Saturday until 


5:00 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please include your name and phone number in case there are any questions concerning your brief. 
Drop-in Night for 
WALLVB 

Friday, November 22 7pm -11pm Joyce ACG racquetball courts 2A & 28 
Bring a four person team or come and meet new friends No advance registration necessary Play as many games as you wish Sponsored by RecSports 
It's off the wall • • • 
IllALUMNI 
i!:CLUB 
New Jersey bedevils Caps' winning streak 
EAST RUTHEFORD, N.J. (AP)-Stefan Richer's third goal of the game at 1:41 of overtime lifted the New Jersey Devils to a 6-5 victory over Washington on Wednesday night, halting the Capitals' winning streak at four games. 
The winning goal came after Alexei Kasatonov collected a rebound of a Richer shot and backhanded the puck back into the Washington goalmouth. Richer collected it there and slipped a backhand shot past a sprawled Don Beaupre. 
The Devils appeared to be on their way to a 5-4 victory in regulation. But Peter Bondra scored his 12th goal in front of the Devils' net with just 17 seconds to play to send the game into overtime. 
Penguins 5, Flyers 2 
PITTSBURGH Kevin Stevens scored his 16th goal to extend his point-scoring streak to 10 games and Jaromir Jagr had a goal and two assists as the Pittsburgh Penguins beat the Philadelphia Flyers 5-2. 
Stevens has the NHL's longest active streak and also tied the career best he set from Oct. 25 to Nov. 14, 1990. He has 13 goals and 11 assists during his streak, longest by a Penguin this season. 
The Penguins, 5-2-1 in their NHL career as the Winnipeg Jets, beat the New York Islanders 3-1. 
Essensa, named the NHL's player of the week last week, had the crowd chanting his name as he stood his ground several times to foil the Islanders. 
Petri Skriko and Darrin Shannon also scored for the Jets, who climbed into second place in the Smythe Division with a record of 10-8-4. Dave McLlwain scored for the Islanders, who were playing their second game in two nights following a 7-4 win at Minnesota. 
1r~-PLEASE HANG UP SO WE cAN wisH vou HAPPY 21st 
IT WENT AWAY. YOU MISSEDIT SO NOW IT'S BACK! 
Blues 5, Maple Leafs 2 

ST. LOUIS -Brett Hull ended a season-long frustration against goaltender Grant Fuhr with two goals and two assists and Jeff Brown also scored twice as the St. Louis Blues defeated the struggli,ng Toronto Maple Leafs 5-2. · 
Before Hull's goal in the rrrst period, Fuhr had stopped him 18 straight times in four games, including 11 shots in one game. The goals gave HuH.lhe league lead with 18, one ahead of Quebec's Owen Nolan. 
The goals were the first for Hull in four games. In his previous two games he had totaled only four shots, but he had nine chances against Fuhr. 

The Maple Leafs aie in an 0­5-2 slump winless on the road. and are 0-10-1 for the season. 
Digger 
continued from page 16 ages," said Phelps. "These kids are pros are in college." The third point of the plan would set up an investigation of each school's athletic depart­ment, by an independent firm. These investigations would co­incide with the normal investi­gations that take place when an institution renews its accredita­tion. Under Phelps~ plan, a uni­versity then could lose its ac­creditation because of a cor­rupt athletic department. Overall. Phelps message was one of getting involved and giv­ing. He has tried to get involved with as many things as he can, and his retirement has allowed him to do so. "You can make an impact," said an exuberant Phelps . 
. ~ 
ALUMNI•-.,~. 
'"___..,..

Ill
i!:CiUB 
· 


AT ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
12pm • 2pm 
EVERY FRIDAY FOR THE REST OF THE YEAR 
DON'T MISS BEVERAGE TIIE FUN! AND FOOD SPECIALS 
IllALUMNI 
r.IUPUI~A~L~UM~N~I:~:u~-~~-~-~::::3 
i!:CWa 
i!:CL'i.IB 
~-------------------------.--------------~-----------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1991 
Pendleton grabs first MVP award 
ATLANTA (AP) -Terry Pendleton of the Atlanta Braves won the National League's Most Valuable Player Award on Wednesday, beating Barry Bonds of Pittsburgh in the clos­est election since 1979. 
Pendleton, who signed with the Braves as a free agent and won his first NL batting title, got 274 points from the Baseball Writers Association of America to 259 for Bonds, who won the MVP award in 1990. 
Pendleton received 12 first­place votes, 10 seconds and two thirds in the balloting. Bonds got 10 firsts, 10 seconds, one third and three fourths. 
The last time the NL balloting was this close was in 1979, when Willie Stargell of Pittsburgh and Keith Hernandez of St. Louis each got 216 votes, the only tie in MVP voting. 
Pendleton's victory gave the Braves three of the BBWAA's four NL awards. Bobby Cox won Manager of the Year and Tom Glavine won the Cy Young Award. 
"I never dreamed about win­ning the National League MVP award," Pendleton said. "I dreamed about winning it in the playoffs or World Series, but anybody could win it in a short series." 
Still, he said, the award was only a consolation prize. "What I really wanted this year was a World Championship ring. That's what I show up at spring training every year for," he said. 
Pendleton noted that the award reflects the success of the Braves, who went from last place to NL champs. "If we had finished second I don't think I'd be standing here now. I'll say we've come a long way in a short time." 
The 31-year-old Pendleton hit .319-52 points above his ca­reer average -and won the batting title by one point over Hal Morris of Cincinnati. Pendleton had a career-high 22 home rnns and 86 RBis. 
Bonds didn't raise his average above .200 until late May, but was the catalyst as the Pirates became the first NL East champion to repeat since Philadelphia in 1978. 
He finished with a .292 aver­age, 25 homers and 116 RBis, numbers that rivaled his 1990 statistics-a .301 average with 33 homers and 114 RBls. Bonds also had 13 assists and is expected to again win a Gold Glove. 
"I don't know what I didn't do," Bonds said from Sweden, where he is vacationing. "I stole bases. I drove in 100 runs. I hit homers. I don't know what else a complete athlete can do.... 
"Maybe this will be the little button that will spark me again next year. Maybe this is mes­sage from God: I didn't work hard enough this year. I just don't understand it." 
Bonds said he wasn't sure if his sometimes uncooperative relationship with reporters hurt him in the voting. 
"Maybe, but I would hope people are more professional than that," he said. 
Bonds' teammate, Bobby Bonilla, finished third in the voting with 191 points. 
Will Clark of the San Francisco Giants was fourth with 118 and Howard Johnson of the New York Mets was fifth with 112. 
Pendleton became only the second Atlanta player to win the MVP award. Dale Murphy won it twice, in 1982 and 1983. Bob Elliott won the MVP in 1947 when the Braves were in Boston and Hank Aaron won it in 1957, when the Braves were in Milwaukee. 

Pendleton was bothered by a left hamstring pull in 1990 and his average slumped to .230 with six homers and 58 RBis in 121 games. After spending his first six-plus seasons with the Cardinals, he signed with Atlanta as a free agent last Dec. 12 for $10.2 million over four years. 
With the Braves, he became a steadying influence and a club­house leader. 
"He was the anchor of our team," Braves general manager John Schuerholz said. "Day after day he went out there, not always completely healthy, and he always played well and showed leadership on and off the field. He was everything I hoped for and more. Clearly, he is our MVP." 
Schuerholz said he didn't ex­pect to get an MVP when he signed Pendleton. 
"I just thought we had signed a good defensive third baseman who had experience on a win­ning team and had leadership qualities," he said, 
Pendleton said the award, coming after his disappointing 1990 season, is likely to spark owners' interest in other vet­eran free agents. 
"There are some guys who can still play this game if given the opportunity," he said. 
Pendleton earned a $100,000 bonus on top of his $1.5 million salary. Johnson got a $25,000 bonus added to his $2 million salary for finishing fifth. 
... t)arring"'a rrti 
. DETROIT (APJ ; · • More !b:"sn~~rdome. • ~atment•is pl8Jllle~ fQr Mike :il;l::.;tlt's •devastating, said Utley, the Detroit Uops• guard Dennis Erickson. coach of No. 
aly;zed from d'te che.st .;~:l Miami and Utley's coach at down, but doctors b~lieve his ···Washington State. "He never condition. is unlikely. .to . missed a game for us. He improve.. ,,.y:.:·· ... :.:_:,~-~ ...-. : .,.,.".'" -::.:_,:,=· ··hplayed all the time. Obviously, 
· U 6-foot-~ and 290 it was~ freak injury." uulluu.a. will not walk again Utley; the lions' third-round "a miracle," Lions pick in 1989. anchored what 
lllimrth43pe:die speCialist Or. David may have been the best •• said Wednesday. offensive line in Washington .· .. ·On Thursday;rdoctors at State history. Erickson's 1988 Ford Hospi:tal team won the Eagle Aloha Utley's Bowl and went 9-3. cervical .,x."All we can do now is pray htumn...J spokeswom~:n and hope that something can BaJ~daday said. . ... · be done to help him ... not to uv•apJ.~~~~ had play. of course, but just to walk for again," Erickson said. ww Chicago Bears coach Mike "l>itka said the injury points up the reality of the danger involved in football. i; {Ii.;'One second, .t you're ·· erfeet,'' l:le said. The next on({. you're not going. to 
:: ..~··. .....:' ~:.::< >:·:::·~:·:·:·:·~ .; J• ••,.,,:;;~:··

'···· . -~. · ·.:H:MJ:t~-,,~.s~~1~t::·. ·\,:;:::,.,. · .... · 
·· Next week, d9ctors plan to 
··· transfet.;Mim' utley > td'7 a rehabilitation unit, but they say therapy would not be intended for him to recover use of the paralyzed areas. 
Saliba said fans are telling Utley uQt to give up. ...,''Most of the calls that we have received are very encouraging, upbeat, wanting Mike to keep his chin up," Saliba said. >t••i. W'· ·•· "Several of the calls have been troril"people who either ~re .·. paralyzed or, were paralyzed · ·. told"they'd never walk · are 
wtJJcing." 

COURSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M. ENGL 204 0 1 3 8 50 GOVT 438 0 1 3 9 8 7 PHIL 242 0 1 3 71 6 THEO 251 0 2 0052 (IT MAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING) ENGL 300A 01 3851 GOVT 4411 01 21188 PHIL 244 01 0318 THEO 254 01 0190 
ENGL 300B 01 3852 GOVT 4511 01 2906 PHIL 244 02 0114 THEO 256 01 3836 ACCT 232 0 4 0583 AFAM4711 3448 ENGL 300C 01 3853 GOVT 4111 01 3598 PHIL 244 03 3717 THEO 260 01 3837 ACCT 232 0 I 0585 AMST 338 4051 ENGL 312 01 1361 GSC 204 01 4024 PHIL 246 01 2135 THEO 260 0 2 3831 ACCT 232 1 0 05811 AMST390 3576 ENGL 314B 01 4022 GSC 234 01 3148 PHIL 246 02 2136 THEO 262 0 1 01811 
ACCT 372 0 2 05114 
AMST 4511 3042 ENGL 317C 01 3204 GSC 242 01 3773 PHIL 246 0 3 2137 THEO 215 01 2661 ACCT 372 0 5 2810 
AMST 460 3081 ENGL 318B 01 3855 GSC 346 01 3028 PHIL 246 0 5 3718 THEO 400 01 2143 AFAM 389 0 1 3446 ANTH 324 3 4 3 4 ENGL 3111 B 0 1 1 3 6 4 GSC 360 0 1 3 7 6 4 PHIL 248 0 1 3 7111 THEO 426 01 3 213 AFAM 451 0 1 3368 ANTH 328 0 21 2 ENGL 325 0 1 3 8 56 GSC 403 0 1 3 7 7 1 PHIL 257 0 1 3 7 2 0 THEO 455B 0 1 01"85 ANTH 389 0 1 3438 ANTH 330 0210 ENGL 328A 01 0012 GSC 423B 01 3766 PHIL 211 01 21311 THEO 507B 01 3032 
ANTH 454 21112 
ANTH 359 3 4 3 6 ENGL 333 0 1 3 8 57 GSC 425 0 1 3 7 6 0 PHIL 213 0 1 3 7 2 1 ARHI 452 3210 ANTH 315 2110 1 ENGL 340 0 1 1 3 6 9 GSC 446 3 7 7 2 PHIL 214 0 1 0 31 7 ARHI 481 
3521 ANTH 388 3154 ENGL 340T 01 3858 GSC 472S 3265 PHIL 265 01 0030 ARST 1349 0754 
ANTH 389 3438 ENGL 340T 02 3859 GSC 482 3763 PHIL 265 02 3722 ARST 2329 0711 ANTH 431 1 3442 ENGL 340T 0 3 3860 GSC 4113A 1 37611 PHIL 265 0 3 3723 ARST 21129 0716 
ANTH 431 A 01 3443 ENGL 340T 0 4 3861 GSC 4113C 1 2110 PHIL 268 01 2857 CHEM 322L 2 1056 
ANTH 454 01 21112 ENGL 366 01 3865 HIST 342A 1 3480 PHYS 210 01 3793 EE 361 1 2825 
ARHI 1611 01 0735 ENGL 403 01 3867 HIST 348A 1 3482 PHYS 222L 0 2 2197 EE 361l 1 2827 ARHI 452 01 3210 ENGL 413A 01 3869 HIST 414A 1 3476 PHYS 222L 04 2198 ENGL 317C 1 3204 
ARHI 412 01 3118 ENGL 415 01 3152 HIST 461A 1 3474 PLS 462 05 2320 ENGL 366 1 3865 
ARHI 411 01 3521 ENGL 415E 01 4002 liPS 441 1 3141 PLS 482 01 2322 ENGL 415 1 3152 
ARHI496 01 3124 ENGL415Z01 3871 liPS 475 1 3318 PSY 342L01 2333 FIN 361 3 1426 
ARST 134S 01 0754 ENGL 416A 01 3872 liPS 565 1 2103 PSY 373 01 2339 FIN 361 4 1427 
ARST 150K 01 3528 ENGL 416B 01 3873 liPS 664 1 3377 PSY 396A 01 3151 FIN 370 1 
1431 ARST 232S 01 0761 ENGL 41~C 01 3874 LAW 608 2 1101 PSY 425 01 1256 LAW 608 2 1609 
ARST 2425 01 0762 ENGL 422 1 3876 LAW 629B 1 3121 PSY 462 01 0157 MBA 625 1 2852 
ARST 2415 01 2122 ENGL 423B 1 3877 LAW 631F 1 1670 PSY 475 01 3608 MBA 682 0 3 
0351 ARST 292S 01 0766 ENGL 4218 1 32511 LAW 631G 01 1671 PSY 488A 01 3611 MUS 234 0 1 2028 
ARST 310S 01 0768 ENGL 428B 3878 LAW 6115 01 1688 RLST 213 15 9515 PHIL 240 0 1 3715 
ARST 326S 01 0769 ENGL 434 3880 LAW 6115 0 3 11110 RLST 213 1 7 9517 PHIL 264 0317 BA 362 0 1 0 8 3 4 ENGL 4 4 °A 1 3 7 7 LAW 6115 0 5 1 1112 RLST 235 1 9 9 51 11
0 1 PHYS 222L 0 4 2198 
BA 391 02 2736 ENGL 451A 3182 LLRO 331 01 3513 RLST 240 21 9521 PSY 342 L 0 1 2333 
BA 391 0 3 2735 ENGL 453 3183 MARK 374 01 3003 RLST 240 2 3 9523 PSY 373 0 1 
2339 BA 464 01 2816 ENGL 413Z 3184 MARK381 01 1704 RLST 240 25 11525 PSY 396A 0 1 3151 
BA 465 01 37119 ENGL 471 3115 MARK 382 01 1705 RLST 251 3 3 8538 PSY 488A 01 3 611 
BA 4110 0 4 0848 ENGL 472Z 3111 MARK 4112 01 3007 RLST 211 3 5 8535 soc 451 0 1 
3547 BA 490 0 5 0849 ENGL 473 3887 MARK 4115 01 3312 RLST 211 3 7 11537 THEO 234 0 1 1 829 
BA 490 0 6 0850 ENGL 483 3044 MATH 323 01 1750 RLST 312 4 5 11545 BA 490 07 3798 ENGL 484 3189 MATH 336 02 0221 RLST 380 49 9S49 CLOSED COURSES 
BIOS 411L 01 0287 ENGL 4110Z 1 38110 MBA 624 01 1805 ROFR 435 01 3506 CAPP 243 01 0969 ENGL 413A 01 38111 MBA 625 01 2152 ROFR 450 01 3505 ACCT 232 0 1 0580 
CAPP 316 01 01170 ENGL 4113C 01 21179 MBA 640 01 1799 ROFR 482 01 3515 0581 CAPP 331 01 2811 ENGL 417 B MBA 682 03 0351 ROSP 103 03 19511
ACCT 232 0 2 01 0705 
ACCT 232 0 4 0583 O 1 2719
CAPP 311 01 0343 ENGL 512 MGT 231 01 1856 ROSP 415 01 3495 CAPP 3N 01 3431 ENGL MGT 231 02 1858 SOC 214 01 3538
ACCT 232 0 5 0584 544 01 38115 ACCT 232 0 6 
0585 CE 470 0 1 0 11112 ENGL 512 3 8117 MGT 231 0 3 1 8 59 SOC 220 0 1 0 3 3 3 °1 
ACCT 232 0 7 0586 CHEM 322L 02 1056 ENGL 585 °1 38llll MGT 231 04 1860 SOC 242 01 3537 ACCT 232 0 8 0587 
CHEll 334L 2 1011 ENGL 512B 01 31100 MGT 231 05 1861 SOC 242 02 3536 ACCT 232 0588 CLAS 360 1 3 2 3 3 FIN 360 0 1 1 41 7 MGT 231 0 6 1 8 6 2 SOC 300 0 1 2 58 3
0 I ACCT 232 1 0 
0589 CLAS 423 3 2 0 3 FIN 310 0 3 1 4 111 MGT 472 0 1 1 8 7 3 SOC 303 0 1 3 0 9 9 ACCT 372 0 2 0594 
CLAS 427 3427 FIN 311 01 1424 MGT 482 01 1875 SOC 310 01 35311 ACCT 372 0 4 
0596 CLAS 442 1 0 8 4 FIN 311 0 2 1 4 2 5 MGT 488 0 1 3 8 0 1 SOC 324 0 1 3 54 4 ACCT 372 0 5 2810 COTH 416 1 3177 FIN 361 0 3 1421 Ml 3011 01 211115 SOC 341 01 3027 ACCT 380 0 2 0598 COTH 435 1 31178 FIN 361 0 4 1427 Ml 333 01 3810 SOC 411 01 2108 ACCT 380 0 3 0599 CSE 322L 1 3962 FIN 361 0 5 14211 Ml 437 01 31144 SOC 4111 01 3340 ACCT 380 0 4 0100 ECON 315 1 3 1 4 1 FIN 361 0 7 3112 3 Ml 438 0 1 3 2 6 4 SOC 420 0 1 3 54 2 ACCT 473 01 0101 ECON 330 1 3746 FIN 370 01 1431 MSA 545 01 3803 SOC 421 01 3545 ACCT 473 0 2 2812 ECON 350 2 . 3 7 4 7 FIN 370 0 2 1 43 2 MUS 220 0 1 2 0 1 6 SOC 421 0 1 3 55 3 ACCT 478 01 2814 ECON 380 2 I Ill FIN 370 0 3 1 4 3 3 MUS 220 0 2 2 0 1 7 STY 311 0 1 3515 ACCT 471 0 2 0102 ECON 417 2105 FIN 475 01 1440 MUS 220 0 3 2011 STV 453 01 3516 AERO 441 L 0 2 0115 ECON 421. 1118 FIN 471 01 2853 MUS 222 01 0105 THEO 100 11 2721 AERO 441L 03 3648 ECON 451 1313 GE 313 0 1 1121 MUS 225 0 1 042 I THEO 227 0 2 0015 AFAII 351 0 1 3445 ECON 471 21171 GE 410 01 3043 MUS 226 01 'n?a THEO 234 01 1821 A FAll 372 0 1 3048 ECON 4118 1 11 7 3 GOVT 3 4 2 T 0 1 0 3 8 0 MUS 234 0 1 2 0 2 8 THEO 235 o1 215 3 AFAII 3811 0 1 3446 EE 340L 2 1200 GOVT 342T 02 0379 PHIL 222 01 2130 THEO 235 02 1120 AFAII 420 0 1 3447 EE 354 02 1205 GOVT 343T 03 3588 PHIL 225 01 3145 THEO 237 01 
01113 AFAII 451 0 1 · 3368 EE 361 01 2825 GOVT 408 01 3595 PHIL 240 01 3715 THEO 241 01 3133 AFAII 454 0 1 28117 EE 311 L 01 a827 GOVT 424 01 2859 PHIL 241 01 4026 THEO 243 01 2157 
·---------------------------E=E~~3~ 1 ~L~o~__ __ _______ __ o_1___ P_H_I_L__ ___ ____ _______ ___ ___ _____ _ _ ______________________l
6~ 4 283 3 G_o_VT 4_2_7___ 3_5_9_4______ 24_1 o_2 4_o_2_7 T_H_Eo 25_o o_1 3 2 9 1 
Thursday, November 21, 1991 The Observer page 15 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
~ND "ltlD Pt.RFORM \NT't.R£S\\NG l't.ROJSS\ON 
I 1<\NDI\ l\kE IT 
ni\SIN~OCI> 

CDNC.ERI t\~U.S 7? I GEt., I -rnOO<lf.\T C\.ASS\0\L ~\l)\C.__.:_~'\~ 'tii\.S ?ORI\-1<:.! 
S£0\0N 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

©Edward Ju 1ius Collegiate CW8722 
29 Accelerates 57 Fit for the table

ACROSS 
30 Punishing by fine 59 William Holden 32 Turkish inn movie

1 College disciplines 34 Sounded 60 Ate the clock 7 Turn 35 Part of speech 61 -"Inferno"
13 Knightly defender (abbr.) 62 Move unsteadily14 May's stone 36 Coax 16 Co 11 ege environment 39 L1 ke tender meat DOWN 17 YIP's attendants 43 Jewish month 18 Application item 44 Go swiftly 1 Road surfacing 19 "-Doll" 46 Streetcar material 21 Endure 47 Seoul soldier 2 Pie ­22 Fuss 48 Kittle or Guidry 3 Green gemstone 23 Relatives 49 Finnish port 4 Keats' forte 
24 Give: Scot. 50 Do vet's work 5 Just misses a 
25 Manufactured 52 Red dye basket 27 First Oscar-winning 54 Father de _ 6 _ suspicion movie 55 Italian strait 7 Telephone again 
8 Portent 
9 Vietnam Offensive 10 Seed covering 11 Scarlet ­12 Hard to grasp 13 -Canal 
15 Loathe 20 Ringing sound 26 Diamond goof 27 Tavern stock 28 Danube tributary29 Chased toward 
(2 wds.)31 State abbreviation 33 Work with grass35 Most counterfeit 36 Kit or Rachel 37 Put into use 38 Indonesian capital39 Dove sounds 40 Prickly shrub 41 Tag-making device 42 Was theatrical 45 Thieves 51 Show boredom 52 Raison d'---­53 Atlantic alliance 54 Nautical man 56 "Ask -what your 
country ... " 58 Make lace 
MATERIAL ISSUE In Concert at Theodores December 10 at 8:30 pm 
Tix $5 for ND/SMC students 
Thursday 

8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Strange Brew." Cushing Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 

4 p.m. Program in History and Philosophy of Science Lecture, "Medicine and National History in the Scientific Revolution," Harold Cook, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Admission Free. Sponsored by Program in History and Philosophy of Science. 
4:15 
p.m. Panel Discussion, "Art, Morality, Journalism: Do They Mix?" Panelists: Douglas Kinsey, Steve Moriarty and Ben Giamo. O'Shaughnessy Galleries, East Snite Museum of Art. Admission Free. Sponsored by Snite Museum of Art. 

4:15 
p.m. Lecture, "Eco's Echoes: Foucault, Theory, and the Pendulum." Speaker Linda Hutcheon University of Toronto. Aud~torium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 


7 p.m. Lecture, "Tribute to Our Blessed Mother," Heshurgh library Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture by mixed media artist Terry Allen, Santa Fe, New Mexico. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Art and Art History and Design. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Yankee Pot Roast Turbot Almondine Cheese Ravioli 
Saint Ma ' 
ry S 
Philly Sandwich 
Baked Fish Supreme California Quiche 

Friday and Saturday 
November 22 7:30 pm  & and  23 10:30 pm  
Shown m Cushing Auditorium-$2  

On sale Dec. 3 
....~......................................~~:~~~~~:~:~~~~~?:::....................,,.\\"flrl~~ •• ; 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, November 21, 1991 
Dettore named MVP as Keenan fills Leahy all-star team 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer  linebacker he led a defense which allowed opponents a combined nine points over the  Coach of the Year honors went to Zahm coach Kevin Casey. Casey was instrumental  placed four players on the first team. Zahm receiver Peter Couri was the lone freshman on  Langenfeld and Dettore were among three players Keenan placed on both the offensive  
Post-season awards were an­ entire season.  in Zahm's success this year,  the first team.  and defensive first teams. The  
- nounced yesterday for the Leahy division of men's inter­hall football. As expected, Keenan dominated, taking the majority of the awards, includ­ing league MVP. Dave Dettore, a running back and linebacker, was named the division's most valuable player after leading his team in rush­ing and tackles. Dettore was the main weapon in the Knights' offense, averaging nearly five yards per carry. At  Dettore was one of eight Keenan players to be selected to the first-team defense, and was also one of six Knights elected to the first team for their offensive accomplish­ments. "On offense I would get five yards a carry, thanks to our of­fensive line," said Dettore. "We had a great defense, and be­cause of that I was able to freelance a lot and make some plays."  leading his squad to the inter­hall finals. Casey was handicapped, having only two days practice before the championship game, but was able to prepare his team, and almost pulled an upset over a heavily-favored Keenan squad. "That was tough to do," said Casey. "I got a lot of coopera­tion from the team to get done what we needed." Zahm and Stanford both  Cavanaugh safety Dustin Klingler and Alumni quarter­back Jim Passinault, last sea­son's MVP, were the only mem­bers of their respective squads to earn rrrst team selections. Among Keenan's 14 first-team selections (out of 24) were only three seniors. Dettore, a sophomore, and John Langenfeld are the centerpieces of a young team which could prove to be a dynasty in future years.  entire Knight linebacking corps qualified as the rrrst team, and each member of that unit-Langenfeld, Dettore and senior Joe Mileti-also made the first team on offense. Leading second-team selections included Stanford running back Lamar Guillory, a former walk-on to the varsity football team, and clutch Alumni wide receiver Willie Alvarado.  
Peters makes  

kills for Irish 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Peters. "It was easy. to get Sports Writer better." Brown obviously disagrees 
When asked about her role on with Peters, adding that her the Notre Dame women's vol­versatility has played a key role leyball team this year, Christy in the Irish attack this season. Peters prefers to credit her "She does a lot of things re­coach and teammates. ally well," noted Brown. "She's 
Not that the freshman from a good hitter, passer, and she Solana Beach, CA., doesn't have plays great defense. Her skills a lot to brag about. are really sound." 
Peters has made an immedi­Notre Dame will need those ate impact on the team, earning skills in the remaining four a starting spot at outside hitter, games, as they have to win being named second-team all­them all to gain a bid in the conference and MCC Newcomer NCAA Tournament. But right of the Year in the process. now, Peters is just concentrat­
First-year Irish coach Debbie ing on having fun playing vol­Brown likes Peters' modest leyball. attitude, even if it contradicts "The atmosphere has been her great talents. great and we have a lot of fun," 
"She'd much rather talk said Peters. "We all love to play about the success of the team, together." and that's a great characteristic As for her future at Notre to have," said Brown. Dame, Peters has simple goals. 
Peters has easily made the "To keep playing for four years transition from being a high and keep on improving," she school star to a collegiate suc­said. cess, possibly even better than While she admits playi'ng vol­she expected. "I was surprised I leyball after her career at Notre even got a chance to start," Dame "would be really nice," stated Peters. Peters just hopes that she will 
The team has rebounded bring continued success to the from last year's 9-27 season rising Irish women's volleyball with a 19-7 record, a MCC program. championship, and a possible "As long as I keep improv­bid to the NCAA Tournament. ing," said Peters, "the whole Of course, Peters doesn't think team will do better." her emergence has anything to Even though thinking of the do with the team's improve­team first is commonplace for ment. Peters, the freshman has a 
"Our coach is really good, chance to one day do something The Observer/Sean Farnan she's helped everyone with for herself: earn All-American Freshman Christy Peters, the MCC Newcomer of the Year, spikes in a regular-season match against Purdue. their game this year," said honors. Peters was voted as a second -team AII-MCC peformer. 
Digger returns with something special for captive crowd 
By ANTHONY KING Phelps. He told of LaPhonso ing out the crisis that he be­Assistant Sports Editor Ellis's home of East St. Louis, lieves college athletics is Illinois, and its problems. headed for. 
An inspired and humorous "East St. Louis Illinois is an His first point is that athletic Digger Phelps spoke last embarrassment to me as a hu­scholarships cannot be used by evening about life, community man, an American, and a coaches until that player grad­service, academics and basket­Christian," stated Phelps. uates, with a seven year grace ball to a captive audience in "These kids (there) don't have a period. Thus, it would benefit Morrissey Hall. chance." the coach to graduate his play­
Phelps intertwined his per­Phelps went on to explain of ers in four years, or lose use of sonal beliefs with interesting the chemical companies on both the scholarship until either the side-notes of his life and bas­sides of the river there, and the · student graduated or seven ketball anecdotes, that served lack of adequate sewage sys­years. as not only an entertaining lec­tems that don't even give the The second idea of Phelps ture but also as a lesson in life. children a chance for good was to give each Division I 
Phelps began his lecture chal­health, little alone an equal op­football or basketball player a lenging each student to look ten portunity at success. 2,000 dollar stipend out of the years ahead, and to see where "Phonz had trouble breathing revenues of the NCAA. These he or she will be then. The when he first came here," ex­stipends would be based on world, he noted, is changing plained Phelps. "I thought he need and handled by the and we as Americans have to had asthma." institutions's financi!ll aid look to see what we have to of­The second part of Phelps' department. fer the world. speech dealt with college athlet­"We're living in the dark 
Atrocities in poorer neigh­ics and academics. Phelps had a borhoods especially troubled three point plan for straighten-see DIGGER/page 13 



