
~~.!!!~ 
~ 


Server _ge;.
1..2·1na SISQUICINUNNIAI 
Saint Ma~'s College 
NOTRE DAME•IND!ANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 14 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Expert describes power struggle in Soviet Union 
By KEVIN SULLIVAN Party in the USSH had pur­by fighting for the Soviet Union of communism and the former General Secretary's 
News Writer posely put forward the image of "democratically elected" totalitarianism. He must also abilities as a diplomat and Gorbachev as a reformer to President. This happened to be proceed in linking the various mediator may place him in gain economic aid and new Gorbachev. republics through bilateral some position in a much weaker 
The recent coup in the Soviet technology from the West. Though the coup is over now, agreements, forming the "loose central government. Union was the topic Wednesday Gorbachev, he stated, would Grazin asserts that Gorbachev confederation" now predicted Grazin was also surprisingly night at St. Edward's Hall, never willingly abandon com­and Yeltsin are not friends or for the country. Grazin re­reserved about the future of where Igor Grazin, a member of munism or endorse true eco­allies, as most Americans may mained cautious when asked to Boris Yeltsin. He says that the USSR Supreme Soviet, nomic reforms. Grazin painted think. Instead, Grazin said, predict what lies in the future while Yeltsin is the strong force spoke to a packed room of stu­a picture of Gorbachev and the Gorbachev, with no popular for his country. He agrees that needed to throw out the com­dents. so-called "hardliners" on more support, has fallen greatly in the ussn is dead as a political munists and install the new 
Grazin not only has experi­common ideological ground power. entity, but said the country will government, he may not be ence In Soviet politics In gen­than Gorbachev and Yeltsin. "We must hope that Yeltsin always exist because of its cul­"sophisticated enough" to run eral, but worked closely in Grazin feels that the recent will not let him stand up any­tural and economic bonds. it. committee with Boris Yeltsin for coup was not a battle between more," he said. Everything Grazin also had some inter­For now, however, Grazin over one-and-a-half years. hard-line communists and lib­now depends upon the ability of esting visions of who would be agrees that Yeltsin is the man of Grazin tried to dispel the mis­erals. Instead, It was a per­democratic forces to keep the at the head of the new govern­the moment, "There was a time conceptions he feels the West sonal bid for power by such pres-sure on Gorbachev." ment. Grazin spoke pessimisti­for Gorbachev. Now it is time holds concerning Gorbachev leaders as Yazov and Kruschov Yeltsin's job now, according to cally about Gorbachev's political for Yeltsin." and the true origin of the coup. against Gorbachev. Yeltsin then Grazin, is to continue to rid the future, though he admitted that 
Grazln said the Communist grabbed the political moment 
Highlights of ND history abound 
Special to The Observer Dame's 10,000-member student • Notre Dame and the under­body is among the most na­standing of its past; 
Notre Dame begins a 14-tional and most academically •Notre Dame and Catholic month observance of its selective in the United States. education in the United States; Sesquicentennial this week, cel­Almost five high school seniors •Notre Dame and the life of ebrating its evolution over 150 apply for each freshman class the mind; years from a log chapel opening and more than 200 ap­• Notre Dame and the cre­parochial school to a national plicants seek each available ative imagination; and, Catholic research university place in the law school. The • Notre Dame and the social with growing international di­faculty numbers almost 900, and ethical issues of an inter­mensions. including more than 60 chaired dependent and technological 
At its birth in November professors. The University's world. 1842, the University had a endowment of more than $600 Highlights of the observance physical plant consisting of million is the 15th largest in will include: three log buildings in need of American higher education and •More than 20 conferences repair and total financial re­the largest among Catholic in­and symposia sponsored by sources of just more than $300 stitutions. And Notre Dame's various academic units of the held by its founder, Father 1,250-acre campus is the site of University, including an inter­Edward Sorin, a young French almost 100 buildings with a re­national symposium on aerody­priest of the Congregation of placement value over a half -namics, an examination of the Holy Cross. The founding billion dollars. role of a religious law school in priests and brothers, joined The major themes of the a secular society, a conference early on by lay teachers, made Sesquicentennial observance, on the changing distribution of up its faculty. There were no reflecting both Notre Dame's income in the United States, entrance requirements for its academic tradition and its re­and a symposium exploring the first students, who were more ligious heritage, are inquiry, ethical issues raised by the likely to be interested in the belief, and community. Father technological revolution in in­preparatory of manual school Edward Malloy, the University's formation gathering and shar­
Practice makes perfect TheObserver/EiisaKiosterman programs than in the classical president, has proposed five ing; Gail Carey works on her throw for the P.W. football team while 
college curriculum. topics to be explored during the 
Today, by contrast, Notre observance: see CELEBRATE /page 4
Margaret Butler awaits her turn. 

Food reflects culture 
By EMILY WILLETT 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Center for 
Spirituality began its 7th annual 
fall lecture series yesterday, 
entitled "Bread and Wine". 
Catherine Shoupe, an anthro­
pology professor at Saint 
Mary's, gave the premier lec­
ture. 
Speaking on "Keeping 
Bodies and Souls Together," she 
addressed the significance of 
food and festivals to peoples of 
all cultures. 
As an anthropologist, Shoupe's interests lie In study­Ing the differences in various cultures. These studies aid In understanding cultural varia­tion and uniqueness, as well as providing Insight into the hu­man condition. 
"We tend to think of our practices as normal, and those of other cultures exotic, when In reality our ways are equal_ly as peculiar to others," she ex­plained. Yet even in our differ­ences there are underlying themes that cross cultural boundaries. One of these 
themes is the link between food 
and celebration, she added. 
"Food and drink are univer­
sal needs for people. However, 
the need for food and drink 
goes beyond the physical, it 
provides an outlet for a social 
human need as well," she said. 
"Festivals and the foods in­corporated Into them help groups to establish an identity. The setting provides an oppor­tunity for the group to come together providing unification. The food that is present be­comes synonymous with the identity of the group," she said. 
Food also serves as a bind­Ing force In the sense of a fam­ily's tradition. The passing down of recipes provides a connection between genera­tions, she added. 
"Food practices become a point of justification for family traditions. People continue food preparation in the manner that a previous generation did sim­ply because that is how It has always been done," Shoupe ex­plained. 
The social importance of 
see SMC I page 4 


Second student attacked 
By MONICA YANT 
New Editor 
A Saint Mary's College stu­dent was attacked last night around 8:40 p.m., according to Georgina West, director of Col­lege Communications. 
The attack occurred on the Saint Mary's campus, although West declined to state the location. 
The student was not injured. 
West said she has nothing "that would indicate a connec· tion" of this incident to the at­tack of another Saint Mary's student Monday evening be­tween McCandless Hall and the Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary. 
No additional Information was available at press time. Both incidents are being Inves­tigated by security. 

Student jogger reports flasher on campus 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
An unidentified white male wearing a tan trench coat al­legedly exposed himself to a female jogger near Moreau Seminary Tuesday morning, according to Charles Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
The woman told Security 
that the Incident occurred around 7:30 a.m. as she was jogging around St. Joseph's Lake. Following the encounter, the woman jogged to the Grotto, where she reported the incident to a Security offlcer on foot patrol. 
The officer proceeded to St. Joseph's Lake to investigate, but found no sign of the man in question. 
When the ofncer returned to the Grotto, the jogger had de­parted. 
Security asks that the jogger come forward so that she can provide a more detailed de­scription of the suspect. Any other person with information about this Incident should also contact Security. 
page 2 Thursday, September 12, 1991 FORECAST:
INSIDE COLUMN 
Mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance of 
o ersa 
great deal to ND 

community 

"Because you don't attend Notre Dame." This is the only answer I received to my questions of why Saint Mary's students pay an additional 
twenty-five dollars for football tickets, and as to Jennifer Habrych why they are not Asst. Saint Mary's permitted to participate in.___E_d_ito_r___ the student ticket lottery for away games. 
I was also told that this money did not cover the ND student activity fee for SMC student as others had told me in the past, but it is simply placed in the general ticket fund. 
The ticket policy is only the tip of the iceberg. Up until this year, SMC students had to pay every time they chose to work out at the Rockne Memorial Center, while ND students could use the Angela Athletic Facility for free. 
These extra fees that SMC students have had to pay to ND are just a few of the inequalities that exist between the way the students at the two schools are treated. The problem lies much deeper in the attitudes that exist between the two schools. 
Some students believe that SMC is second­rate. That all students of Saint Mary's are intellectually inferior to those at ND, and that SMC students are there because they could not get in to ND. Without ND, SMC would cease to exist. This stereotype is true of a few students. 
Prior to 1971, there was no need to develop SMC and ND relations. The students of both campuses recognized and acknowledged the co­dependency that existed. 
During the past few years many committees have been formed in order to lessen the tension that exists between the two student bodies, and to attempt to make the campuses more integrated and equal. 
The problem remains that ND and SMC are integrated and equal in some ways, but many aspects of the campuses remain segregated and unequal. 
The attitude remains that SMC is solely dependant on ND for survival, and cannot stand alone. What truly exists is a co-dependency between the campuses. 
Notre Dame students rely on Saint Mary's in many ways. ND students are frequently seen in SMC classes, working out in Angela, typing papers in the computer lab, participating in abroad programs, and studying in the library. They are invited to partake in many SMC activities and clubs. 
The Keenan Revue requires the use o O'Laughlin Auditorium. And, where would a major university be without an education program (a degree which a ND student can only earn through SMC)? 
Yes, SMC is dependent on ND in many ways, but ND is just as dependant on SMC. 
If both institutions can share a co-exchange o classes, activities, policies, and a newspaper, surely both student bodies are worthy of respect and recognition for their contributions to the other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

ScoreboardSports 
Mike Scrudato
Rolando de Aguiar Rich Szabo 

News Business

Lauren Aquino 
Collen GannonMary Murphy Colette LaForce 
Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 



WORLD 

Boat oeoole return voluntarily 
•HONG KONG -The largest group ever of Vietnamese boat people returned voluntarily to their Communist homeland today. Since the voluntary repa­triation program began in October 1989, 9,626 Vietnamese boat people have opted to return home. But Hong Kong government statistics show that the number of people heading home is outstripped by the number of Vietnamese converging on Hong Kong to escape hardship under Communist rule. As a result, the government has instituted a screening process, under the auspices of the U.N. agency, which is designed to separate the "economic migrants" from political refugees. 
Violence leaves 11 dead 
•TOKOZA, South Africa -Attackers threw a hand grenade into a black commuter bus yesterday, one of a spate of attacks that claimed at least 11 lives in a renewal of black factional fighting. 
The violence came hours after President De Klerk and black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela held emergency talks Tuesday night to try to stop the vio­lence which has claimed 100 lives since Tuesday. De Klerk's governing National Party, Mandela's African National Congress and the lnkatha Freedom Party are to sign a peace treaty Saturday, but it is given little chance of success. The latest surge of violence is again expected to delay De Klerk's attempts at political re­form. 

OF INTEREST 

•A control tower tour, offered by the Flying Club, will be conducted today at the South Bend FAA control tower. The tour will leave from the Main Circle at 5:45 
p.m. and will last about one hour. Call Jennifer Martin at 283 -2963 for more information. 
IIVolunteers are needed for Counseline, a service of the University Counseling Center for the ND and SMC 
MARKET UPDATE 


YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 11 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 181.95 Million 211.21 
0.21 _,........_~S,&I COMPOSITE 385.09 
.53 DOW JONES INDUS1RIALS 2,987.03 4t 4.47 PRECIOUS METALS GOlD.. $ 1.20 to $354.20/oz. SILVER.. 6¢ to $4.04/oz. 

showers TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas·Ft.Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madnd MiamBeach Moscow New York Pans Philadelphia Rome St. LOUIS San Francisco Seattle South Bend Tokyo 
H 
81 89 
68 74 71 93 83 74 87 86 88 68 75 93 86 55 83 79 86 84 93 65 69 
n 
73 

L 61 68 46 63 65 73 52 54 73 71 63 57 60 64 78 45 71 59 72 63 74 54 51 58 
70 
' 



NATIONAL 

Babies suffer water intoxication 
•CHICAGO, II -Water intoxication, which can kill infants by swelling their brains, has increased sharply because poor parents who run out of formula give their babies too much water, a study indicates. Welfare babies who are not breast-fed are especially at risk, according to pediatricians at St. Louis Children's Hospital, where 34 cases of water intoxication were treated between 1975 and 1990. When too much water is ingested over too short a time, brain cells can be flooded and swell. The swelling can cause seizures, ir­regular breathing and death, said Dr. James Keating, the study's lead author. 
Rivera and ABC orevail in libel suit 
•CLEVELAND, Oh -A judge 
rejected an inmate's $40 million libel suit against Geraldo Rivera and ABC over a "20-20" report identifying the prisoner as a "hit man." U.S. District Judge Charles Joiner on Tuesday ruled 


that William Brooks had failed to pro-{ duce clear evidence that would ' convince the jury that Rivera "unreasonably failed to attempt to discover the truth or falsity or defamatory character of the statement." Brooks, who is serving a 19-to 30-year term for a 1987 assault conviction, had sued over a 1980 broadcast that described him as a hit man who was supposed to intimidate witnesses against a judge charged with sexual misconduct. 
community. If you are interested, an organiza­tionaVtraining meeting will take place tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in room 300 of the Counseling Center. 
•student Union Board informational meeting will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theater. Find out how you can become involved in SUB. You can help program movies, lectures, music, and more for the whole campus. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1913: Olympic legend Jesse Owens was born in Danville, Ala. 

• 
In 1938: Adolf Hitler demanded self-determination for the Sudeten Germans in Czechoslovakia . 

• 
In 1960: Democratic presidential candidate John F. Kennedy confronted the issue of his Roman Catholic faith saying, "I do not speak for my church on public matters, and 


the church does not speak for me." 
•In 1966: The comedy-musical program "The Monkees' debuted on NBC. 

------~-------------~--------------~ 

Thursday, September 12, 1991 
GSU will improve quality of living 
By Julie Barrett 
News Writer 

Equipped with a healthy bud­get and an enthusiastic group of representatives and committee leaders, this year's Graduate Student Union Is ready to get down to business. 
This year the Union plans to tackle a variety of Issues run­ning the gamut from multicul­turalism to health care. 
The GSU Intellectual Life Committee is focusing on the issue of multiculturalism and its effect on curriculum. The group Is planning several lec­tures on the topic this year with speakers from all over the country. 
This year, the Quality of Life Committee Is confronting the problems of adequate health care coverage for graduate students and day care for graduate students with chil­dren. 
The first deadline for applica­tions for the Travel Grant Fund Is November 15. This grant helps finance travel bills for graduate students who are go­Ing abroad, In order that they may present their thesis pa­pers. 
Professional development workshops, such as teacher as­sistant training, will be held throughout the year. The first session Is September 18 and ls open to all Interested graduate students. 
Finally, writers for the grad­uate student newsletter are needed. 
· Several issues left unfmished last year were discussed during the meeting. According to the revised du Lac rules and regu­lations, each graduate depart­ment Is allotted five exemptions per semester for University funded graduate student events where alcohol is served. Beginning this year, parietals will not apply to the Fisher graduate residences. 
The Graduate Student Union is composed of representatives from every graduate depart­ment at Notre Dame. 
"We want the Graduate Student Union to be as demo­cratic and representative as possible," said Karen Slawner, the executive vice president of the GSU and a third year Government graduate student. "We want grad students to feel welcome to bring their com­ments and concerns to the GSU so we can be aware of what's going on in the departments as a whole." 
"We want to encourage grad­uate students to join the various committees," said Kurt Mills, president of the GSU and a third year Government grad­uate student. "We really want to make the Graduate Student Union as visible as possible." 
The GSU office is located in room 200 in La Fortune. Students are welcome to come in with their questions and con­cerns or call at 239-6963. 

The Observer page3 


scream, you scream, we all scream for "Yo-Cream"? 
Notre Dame freshmen Kevin Ryan and Allie Heidbrink walk on North Quad -with the ever-present Yo­Cream cones and smiles t~at the beginning of the school year can bring. 
• 
NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 

• 
SPEND A YEAR OR SEMESTER


•

• STUDYING THE PACIFIC RIM 
•
.• 

• -•
• INFORMATION MEETING •
•

• WITH
• PRESIDENT DAVID LINK • •
• THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1991 105 O'SHAUGHNESSY •• 5:30PM •• • 
All Arts And Letters Students Are Welcome' 
• 
• 


The Woodwind/Brasswind 
Major Brand Band Instruments Sales, Rentals, and Repairs 
Also, a full line of Amps, Keyboards, Guitars, PA Systems, and Drums including:Korg, Roland, EV lberez, Gibson, Fostex Tama, and others. The best gear at the best prices.Stop in and see us! 
19880 State Line Rd. South Bend, IN 272-8266 
Open: Monday, Friday 10 a.m.-7p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. -4 p.m. 
The Observer 

page4 Thursday, Setpember 12, 1991 


SUB seeks visibility and recognition 
BY STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
The Student Union Board 
plans to utilize its $147,000 
budget to bring students of the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community a full slate of events 
for the 1991-1992 academic 
year. 
"My number one goal," said 
Lynn Ramsay, board manager 
for SUB "is to get the students 
more aware of what we do." 
According to Ramsay, SUB 
can be most effective when stu­
dents offer their input. 
"A lot of people don't realize 
that we are responsible for 
most of the events that happen 
here," Ramsay said. 
She added that many people 
did not realize SUB was re­
sponsible for bringing the 
Indigo Girls to Notre Dame last 
year. 
"Unfortunately, a lot of people thought we had something to do with the New Kids on the Block," Ramsay added, "but we were not part of that." 
According to Ramsay, SUB is 
always looking to make im­
provements. "We are doing a lot 
more market research this 
year," Ramsay said. 
She added that SUB will con­duct a survey as well as work with other campuses to see what sort of entertainment is 

CELEBRATE 
conrtinued from page 1 
•A meeting at Notre Dame of the presidents and provosts of Japan's major private universi­ties and colleges; facility. University's "Founders' Day" in mid-October 1992. 
most popular. 
Currently, the _five executive board members of SUB are working closely with appointed commissioners to plan events in such areas as the cultural arts, musical entertainment and spe­cial services. 
The special services provided by SUB include the lottery for tickets to away football games as well as spring break trips. 
SUB will also be involved in the Sesquicentennial Celebration, An Tostal and the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
According to Beth Wittman, SUB's director of relations, "each committee is to keep within a budget for the year." Some of that money is allocated from SUB's budget, while the remainder is raised through special events like the sale of The Shirt. 
In all, more than 100 students are involved in the Student Union Board and its various subcommittees. The executive board consists of five members, each appointed by members of the student senate and student government. 
The next major event planned by SUB is a talk by Joe Clark, the inner-city principal known for his iron-riSted discipline. 
Other events SUB has planned for the year include a profes­sional ballet for the spring, a St. Patrick's Day Celebration and the annual Art Expo. 
Keeping your weight at a moderate level may scale down your risk of heart at­tack. So maintain a healthy diet and lighten up on your heart. 






FINANCE CLUB MEETING 
Thursday, September 12 
TONIGHT! 
All old and new members welcome. 
7:00 "' 8:00 pm 223 Hayes,Healy 

Questions? Call Scott Hazen 289,6642 or Marina Poulakidas 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
food is further illustrated in the practices of those with ethnic heritages. Food practices are often the last area of cultural identity adapted by immigrants. It is also the first aspect re­turned to by those hoping to rediscover their heritage. 
"Meals hold a unifying power for groups. They provide a means of establishing a cul­tural identity as well as provid­ing an outlet for our social needs. Meals allow people to come together and share." 
The Center for Spirituality will hold weekly lectures at 12:15 in Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall as part of the "Bread and Wine" series. 

Please recycle. 
Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. 
Thank you. 

Pick u: ·:all:mane· ::an.d:
......... P .............. Y ...... . 
books by:Fiiday Sept:l3~ 
• 0 ••••••••••••• 0 •• 0 ••••••••••••••• 
. -. •.••••• J , •• ,.-.....-...• .... 
----------~--~-~-~-----...... 
,., ....,..,-, ....... , 
The Observer

Thursday, September 12, 1991 page 5 



Aquino looks to end US military presence 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­President Corazon Aquino will seek a referendum to decide the future of U.S. military presence here if the Senate, as expected, refuses to renew the lease on Subic Bay naval base, her chief aide said Thursday. 
The referendum strategy raises a host of legal questions. Officials admit they have given up trying to persuade senators to approve the extension before the lease expires Monday. 
Senators were to resume de­bate Tliursday on a pact under which the Americans would give up Clark Air Base next year but keep Subic 10 more years in return for $203 million annually. 
The agreement appeared doomed. or the 23 senators, 12 remained opposed. 
Supporters claim the country cannot afford to offend the 
University of Wisconsin PlattPville 
Emphasis in [jberal Arts International Business 
Courses available in Spanish and in English 
Fluency in Spanish not required 
All courses approved by the University Wisconsin-Platteville and validated on an official UW-P transcript 
$3975 per semester for Wisconsin & Minnesota residents $4225 per semester for non-residents 
Costs include Tuition and Fees Room and Board in Spanish homes Field trips 
All financial aid applies 
For funher information contact Study Abroad Progralllll 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 1 University Plaza 
Platteville, Wl53818-3099 (608} 342-1726 
United States, its largest trad­ing partner, at a time when thousands of FHipinos are suf­fering from the effects of the June eruptions of Mount Pinatubo. 
The Americans agreed to quit Clark because of volcano dam­age and the threat of more to come. Clark lies 10 miles from the volcano's eastern slopes. 
Presidential Executive Secretary Franklin Drilon said if the Senate balks, the adminis­tration will immediately launch a drive to get the 3 million sig­natures needed on a petition to call a national referendum. 
uwe cannot call a referendum before Sept 15," Drilon said in a· radio interview. uSo by Sept. 16, the 194 7 Military Bases Agreement will expire. Under our constitution, there must be a treaty by then. So if there is going to be a referendum ... it 
Lederer lectures on the politics of animal experimentation in America 
By AMY MARK News Writer 
Susan Lederer, a historian at Penn State University lectured on uLost Dogs and the Laboratory: The Politics of Animal Experimentation in 20th Century America on Wednesday. Lederer explored some of the ways in which op­position to experimentation has shaped the conduct of labora­tory scientists in the American research community. 
u Most historians have as­
. sumed that the triumphs of the laboratory and the new cultural authority of clinical medicine relegated antivivisection;that is, opposition to intellectual re­spectability." Lederer ex­plained. 
ui will argue that such as­sumptions overstate the .dura­bility of opposition to animal experimentation and overesti-
HEY EVERYBODY BEWARE: THE ONE WHO WEARS PURPLE PANTYHOSE IS FINALLY 211 
JAYI 
·ERIC. JON. MARC. DAN, 
TOM. PAT 

Learn to create your own omelet 
Howard Helmer tells the incredible edible egg story for the American Egg Board with whimsical and informative demonstrations of egg cooking techniques. Although his presentations are light-hearted, Helmer is a heavy-weight in egg preparation. In 1990 he officially broke the Gujness Book world record for the second time by preparing 427 omelets in 30 minutes. 
Although Helmer's flash-in-the pan cooking methods and unorthodox style of instruction might not follow the rules of classical cuisine, they do make instant egg experts out of everyone he teaches. He has been enthusiastically received by professional culinary groups, international chef societies as well as restaurant and retail grocer associations throughout the world. 
Brunch on Saturday, Sept. 28 atNDH Sunday, Sept. 29 at SOH 10:00 am Sharp 

Open to students, faculty, and staff. Student on Notre Dame board plan need their J.D. The cost for all others Is $5.50. Registration is on a first-come, first-serve 
mate the vulnerability of medi­cal research to criticism from antivivisection," Lederer af­firmed. 
A threat of deleterious effects on humans from cruelty to an­imals was asserted by early American antlvivisectlonists, who challenged the utility of animal vivisection and ques­tioned the morality of creating animal suffering. The brutaliz­ing effect on human behavior was depleted in William Hogarth's uThe Four Stages of Cruelty," which Lederer dis­played on slides. The works evolved from the cruelty of young boys to animals to the killing of humans to the poetic justice of the killing of a mur­derer. 
Antivivlsectlonists felt that animal experimentation would lead to human experimentation. There were suggestions that criminals, orphans, or the in­sane should be turned over for human vivisection, and indeed, the media reported horror sto­ries of orphans being Injected with fatal diseases for research purposes. In the early 20th century, it became legal to dis­sect humans. 
However, biomedical re­searchers fought to gain favor for animal experimentation, hoping to establish it as "benign and necessary." They tried to supplant the negative images of vivisection to assure access to animals, which had been opposed by antivivsectionists. 
In the 1930's, there was a massive cultural investment in dogs across America, which drew attention to the specific use of dogs in laboratory re­search. Researchers argued that experimentation on dogs had led to Invaluable success, including the discovery of using Insulin to treat diabetes and liver treatment for anemia. In defense, antivivisectionlsts ap­pealed to the 8 million dog owners across the nation. 
As the fight against vivisec­tion continued Into the 1940's, the National Society for Medical Research (NSMR), led in part by Anton Carlson, was created, and developed techniques to advocate animal research. The Research Dog Hero Award recognized the contributions of dogs to science and attempted to humanize biomedical research. 
In a usoclal tableau," animal researchers were featured as dog lovers and NSMR located homes for "retired" laboratory dogs. Researchers were also more careful about how they acquired lab dogs, primarily through humane societies or dealers, although there were many controversies over the le­gality of these means. 

ELED MAJORS 
MEETING 




MANDATORY 
FOR ALL CURRENT 8 NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
TOESDAY,SEPTEMBER17 
6:30 -8:00 PM SMC SCIENCE BLDG 
basis -limit of 200 people each day. 
ROOM 105 Pre-register in the dining halls from 4:45-SAINT MARY'S 
6:45 pm or call 239-8339. Registration ends Thursda Se t. 26. 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, September 12, 1991 

Hostage stalemate ends as Israel frees 51 Lebanese 
NABATIYEH, Lebanon (AP) ­Hopes grew Wednesday for the release of Western hostages in Lebanon after Israel freed 51 Lebanese prisflners and handed over the remains of nine guer­rillas in exchange for word that one of its servicemen was dead. 
The Israeli move was seen as a crucial break in the hostage stalemate, heightening prospects for a broad swap in­cluding the rest of Israel's dead and missing servicemen, more Arab detainees and the 11 missing Westerners. 

The Revolutionary Justice Organization in Beirut early Thursday gave the first word about a hostage who has been held for two years. 
The group said British hostage Jack Mann was alive and well, and that the release of prisoners by Israel had raised hopes of a "happy end­ing" -with Mann and other Westerners going free. 
Revolutionary Justice accom­panied the handwritten Arabic language communique it deliv­ered to the independent Beirut newspaper an-Nahar with a photograph of Mann, a 77 -year­old former pilot, who has been missing since May 12, 1989. 
U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, the diplomatic point man in efforts to break the hostage deadlock, was "very encouraged" by Israel's actions, his spokesman Francois Giuliani said. 
"He will now redouble his ef­forts to find a solution to the problems of all hostages, de­
tainees and missing persons," said Giuliani. The New York Times on Thursday quoted an unnamed 
U.N. official as saying the kid­nappers probably would release one or more of the· Western hostages as early as Friday. 
Perez de Cuellar met Wednesday with Iranian offi­cials in Tehran, but his spokesman gave no details about the talks. Iran is sensitive to accusations that it directly controls the hostage-holders' actions. 
In Washington, the Bush administration welcomed the actions. "We are very hopeful that this has ramifications that are helpful to the hostage sit­uation," said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
Sheik Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah, spiritual mentor to Hezbollah, which is believed to be an umbrella for the pro­Iranian hostage-holding fac­tions, said the releases and repatriations "creates an at­mosphere conducive to positive results." 
Fadlallah, who spoke to re­porters in Beirut, said he ex­pected movement on the hostage issue as a result, but did not predict any timetable. 
Israel television reported Wednesday that the break­through came when Israel's chief hostage negotiator, Uri Lubrani, met in Paris over the weekend with U.N. Secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
Lubrani expressed optimism about prospects for an overall settlement in the wake of Wednesday's "positive omen." 
"We all hope this is the be­ginning of a process which will end with the solution, once and for all, of the tragic problem of our POWs and MIAs and of the Western hostages," he told a news conference in Tel Aviv. 
The developments come a month after the last big break in the hostage crisis. British television journalist John McCarthy was released Aug. 8, carrying a letter from his Shiite captors to Perez de Cuellar re­questing that the U.N. chief mediate some sort of swap. Three days after McCarthy was released, American Edward Tracy was freed in Beirut. 
The missing Westerners in­clude five Americans, three Britons, two Germans and an Italian. The longest held is American Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, who was kidnapped March 16, 1985. 
Israel has long insisted on an accounting of its missing men in Lebanon as part of any overall hostage deal. It said in a military communique Wednesday it had received "irrefutable evidence" that ser­viceman Rahamim Alsheikh was dead. 
Alsheikh had been missing since 1986, and confirmation of his death left six Israeli soldiers missing. 
Lubrani, asked why Israel had freed some Arab prisoners without word on the fates of all the missing servicemen, said: "This cannot be done in one shot and therefore we take it step by step. And whenever we have some progress we will re­spond." 


flowers • Balloons • Greeting Cards 
Lafortune f>Memenl 12:30-5:30 Monday thru &turday 283-4242 V~ t£1 Maste~ard acc~pted 
We deHver daily to NO. &~C. and Holy Crass campuses. 
LUNCHEON C€L€DM.T€ SPECIAL' 
t'hoire or 10 Cornbinalion P\aUers.. 'nclu.des soup. 
•KK roll. lried rice & hot lf'a. Sen,.f'd t2:30pm ­.jpm. Mon. -...ri. 
83.45 
-OPEN 7 OAYS­l:JOUIXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH BUSINESS U.S. 31 in ROSELAND <SOUTH BESOl at RANilAI.I.'S INN 12t9l 272-7376 
SUNlit\ y SPECIAL 
t'hoil·•· ur 1.; Uinnpn•. 
lndudrs 'IIUII, 'h•a~nf"d l'il't'. t.>~J..! roll and h•a. 
llnl.l 

84.95 


•
. 
• 

.\riel is ~ ralcnrcd Ru..i:~r~ l'ofl f'ianisr whn has enamored audienl-es around rhc munrrv. His fl<--rf<lflllan<"Cs incnrpmarc native Rus.•ian storic' "ith cumcml'Klfa~·. lf.U.tilinn~\1 and nri~in~1l piano picrcs. \ l·.s. riritcn tior fire \cars . .-\riel hJ1 tiollnwcd his dream tn hrinl( rhc nu~il· and \\onder of the pijno ro :\mcrk:·a. 


Business 
sumer, in the eighties brand was most important and in the nineties people are using brands as the greater sorter, to narrow down the choice," said Lyons. 
Lincoln-Mercury's primary advertising objective is to get the company beyond this initial consumer "narrowing down," according to Lyons. They at­tempt to accomplish this goal by creating or remodeling the image of their products. 
When the advertising de­signers sat down at the begin­ning of last quarter with an ex­tensive report on the current image of their products, they selected three goals for polish­

mind. contemporary 
cials based on each Mercury car. 
big," said Lyons. 
ing the Mercury image. First, they wanted to build on the traditional reputation of
The ObsiiMiriEiisa Klosterman 

"In the mid-seventies price Mercury as a car built with Department of
Stephen Lyons, advertising manager for Lincoln-Mercury, discussed the 
was most important to the con-"room, ride and comfort" in
company's 1992 advertising campaign last night in Hayes-Healy. 
Drexel sues Milken seeking billions in back pay and damages 
page 7 
Lincoln-Mercury advertising manager discusses upcoming 1992 campaign 
Second, they hoped to evolve the image into a more 
car. Finally, they aimed to reinforce the up­scale image of Mercury. 
To accomplish these goals, they created a set of commer­Porter's "Night and Day: You are the One" for 
"The Lincoln had different imaging problems than the Mercury, some people perceived it as old-fashioned and a little 
Despite these differences, the market strategy for both au­tomobiles will be aimed at cre­ating a distinct image in the minds of the consumers. 
The Marketing Club, MBA Marketing Association and the Marketing 
sponsored Lyons' lecture. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the one-time Wall Street dynamo enriched by financier Michael Mllken, sued the former star employee and junk-bond pi­oneer Wednesday seeking bil­lions in back pay and damages. 
The lawsuit filed in federal court accused Milken of racke­teering, theft and other alleged wrongdoing, and claimed Milken concealed his illegal ac­tivities, exploited the firm to make private Investments and tricked Drexel into believing for years that he was innocent. 
Milken has long been credited with almost single-handedly pi­oneering a market in high-yield bonds that financed corporate expansion and hostile takeovers and transformed Drexel from a second-tier firm to Wall Street titan. 
After a lengthy investigation, Drexel in 1989 pleaded guilty to six felonies related to illegal trading in deals involving Milken and agreed to pay $650 million in penalties. 
Milken last year admitted six felonies, paid $600 million and is serving a 10-year prison term in California. 
Drexel's lawsuit claims Milken violated financial duties and that his lawbreaking caused Drexel's collapse. It also alleges Milken misappropriated corporate assets for personal gain via hundreds of Drexel­related partnerships. 
The complaint also names 
Milken's brother, Lowell, who worked in Drexel's junk-bond department in Beverly Hills, Calif. It asserts that Michael Milken received more than $1 billion in compensation from 1985 to 1989 and Lowell Milken received more than $100 mil­lion in the period. 
Attorney Alan Dershowitz, who is appealing Milken's prison sentence, issued a statement saying the lawsuit seeks to make Milken a scapegoat for Drexel's fall. He denied the allegations and said Mllken would countersue. 
His statement said the lawsuit "stands truth on its head by conjuring up legal theories to sue people on behalf of a company for activities that the company approved, encouraged and profited from enormously." 
Lowell Milken's lawyer, Michael Armstrong, noted that his client had not pleaded guilty to any criminal wrongdoing. 
HEY FIGHTING IRISH 
Look Who's Got The 
Best Deals On Campus! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL

PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS

$4 MORE! AVAILABLE 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE 
TWO SMALL 
PEPPERONI 

ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS

PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE 

OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REOUIRED. 
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. belivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 12, 1991 


YOU KNOW WHAT H& 011? 'TCPlYr H8 9fia.f5HT fOM/3 
NINe CFH/9 ~­
eR 8UW!t8 FOR 
ti.JNCH! ,_,_, 
UNAN­I KeeP 7HINI</NG IT'S 

'30'11/3 9JI<Ta= ST.t!Ct'. BUTHe'S A MAN IN H/5 TH/I<T/&5. H/3 7HOUW813 7HROU6H HIS STAG&S. 
~\ 

MOM/ IUiAT 
/ IS IT, aAR? 
\ 

HPC skirts 
•

important ISSUe 
The Hall Presidents' Council fumbled the ball Tuesday 
night. 

By skimming over the issue of making dorms 'Safe Havens' for gay, l?sbian, and bi~ex~al students, HPC missed a golden opportumty to engage m dialogue about an important issue on this campus. 
The baH presidents were asked to address the concerns of these students for a reason: the very fact that they are lead­ers and representatives of the entire student body. The let­ter, regardless of any vague or inappropriate content, de­served greater attention. 
Instead, it got a brush-off. 

Referring the matter to individual hall presidents to "do what ever you want with it," co-chair Charlie James gives the impression that neither he, nor HPC as a group, should make a statement about the matter. In addition, his non­committal attitude does little to encourage the individual presidents to look into the issue more closely in their resi­dence halls. 
If the hall presidents were as confused about the request as thei~ res~onses indic~te, they should have engaged in more discussion and possibly even carried the issue over to a ~uture meeting. If they were in agreement, they should have ISsued a resolution as a group, deciding one way or another about the feasibility of 'Safe Havens.' 
In any case, by not acting on the request as a group HPC left its members in limbo. ' 
S~~e dorms appe~r to have .~ade quick and possibly hasty deciSions about the Issue, decisiOns that merit more deliber­ation and dorm participation. Siegfried Hall, for example, made a late-night decision to adopt the 'Safe Haven' resolu­tion, while other dorms said they simply tabled the issue that night. 
It is difficult to imagine how all the residents of Siegfried were involved in the decision, and one must wonder what ef­fe~t, if any, the decision has on Siegfried residents beyond bemg merely a symbolic statement against discrimination. 
For the dorms that have yet to address the 'Safe Haven' resolution, the opportunity remains to engage in thoughtful dialo~e with students and the author of the letter, an op­portumty which could even yield alternative ways to address the concerns of gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. 
For HPC and those dorms that have already pushed the is­sue aside, it is an opportunity sadly lost. 
DOONESBURY 

WH~I liM~ ~· 
Notre Dame: a place where apathy, ignorance abound 
Dear Editor: 
Good day, Notre Dame. Is your lunch all you had hoped for? Sorry to be so negative so early in the year, but Notre Dame has a couple of problems: ignorance and apathy. 
The ignorance we are talking about is not intellectual stupidity; Notre Dame students are among the best educated in the country in philosophy, theology, business, science, etc. (and we'd damn well better be for the tuition we're paying). We are talking about students not being even partially aware of the world beyond this predominantly white upper­middle class college. 
For the most part, students are unknowledgeable about issues of social justice, the environment and politics. Certainly, we do know that we "kicked Saddam's ass," but what do we know about the two or three hundred thousand Iraqi men, women and children who were exterminated in the process? Or do we even care? 
The White House and the mass media tell the American public what to think and prime time television tells us how we should be. This is the sort of ignorance that should not exist amongst Notre Dame students. 
A!; for apathy, we need look no further than Du Lac for examples. Everyone bitches about everything at Notre Dame, yet few actually do anything. Parietals, co-ed dorms, better class sizes, the alcohol policy are all are subjects of the t-shirt slogans and those "investigatory committees," but students rarely even care to write to The Observer or Scholastic about them. 
And when a group does come 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
along with the backbone to try to make a change-we are talking about SUFR-they are treated as extremist maniacs. 
The purpose of this letter is to try to stimulate some thought and discussion amongst Notre Dame students. Remember, we, not the administration, run this university. Take some time to inform yourself and think and act about what is really going on behind all of our backs. 
If you think that the writers of this letter are full of it and that Notre Dame is a highly socially and politically aware campus that is interested in trying to change things for the better, tell us so. We hope you are correct. 
This letter has been edited. 
George Smith St. Edward's Hall Michael Goodwin Dillon Hall Aug.30, 1991 
'They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.' 
Benjamin Franklin 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Thursday, September 12, 1991 page9 
Russian 

Ariel combines 
classical music 
with rock 'n' roll 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 

What makes Led Zeppelin's "Stairway to Heaven" such a legendary piece of classic rock 'n' roll? 
Is It the lyrics? The guitar solos? The drums? Or maybe ... the piano. Piano? Get real. Since when did the piano become an 
integral part of today's rock scene? Billy Joel. Sure. Elton John. Of course. But Led Zeppelin ... Think again. 
Well, maybe the time has come for music lovers everywhere to re-think their favorite music. 
Maybe the time has come to introduce Ariel, the revolutionary pianist from the Soviet Union who has given both classical piano playing and classic rock 'n' roll a new twist. 
Brought up studying Schumann and Chopin, Ariel now delights his audience with exciting arrangements from rock greats like the Beatles, the Moody Blues, and Chicago. 
There are no lyrics. No guitar solos. No drums. 
Just Ariel and his plano. 

"When he first started (touring), people thought he was nuts!" said Toni Stewart, Ariel's present manager. 
People were skeptical, according to Ariel. They said there had to be singing and at the time, Ariel hadn't yet mastered the English language. 
They didn't understand Ariel's 'I wanted the dream to "capture the spirit and character of pop and rock andpiano to sing -blend them with classical 
to speak technique. "I wanted the piano to sing-to
through the 
speak through the language oflanguage of sound. I wanted to make the plano speak without words," he
sound. I wanted 
said.

to make the 
Five years later, Ariel has ex­piano speak perienced success. He has played in Houston's prestigious Jones
without words.' 
Hall backed by the Houston Pops 
Orchestra, at Charleston Heights Art Center in Las Vegas, and on college campuses across the nation. 
Audiences and critics agree that Ariel achieved his self-expressed goal to "make the piano re­create all the instruments you hear in, for example, The Moody Blues' "Nights in White Satin.'" 
"I try to capture the characte' and mood of the overall song, to capture the sptrit of the drums or percussion or guitar. I Interpret the entire se­lection through the piano. 
"I capture the sounds so truthfully and honestly that you will know which part was orig­inally guitar (or any other instrument). The song is reincarnated," explains Ariel. 
Born in Kishinev, Russia, Ariel entered a strict, traditional world of music at the tender age of five via private plano lessons. 
Though he loved his music, Ariel describes the Russia where he grew up as "very harsh," catering to a "regimented lifestyle based on fear." 
He was accepted to the National Children's School of Music when he was six and a half years old. Soviet officials decided that he would play the violin, but his degree was overturned by "a few well-placed payments" by his family, and 

he was allowed to continue to study the piano 
instead. 

In addition to the music school, Ariel was also 
required to attend a regular pyblic school. 
It was difficult to study all day long, said Ariel. 
"I was just a little boy-I wanted to play soccer 
and be with friends." In such a severe society, 
however, one has to adhere to the rules. 
"(The school) was sponsored by the state and it 
wanted to get its money's worth. And Soviet 
philosophy was do it or you're out!" Ariel said. 
Studying in such an atmosphere gave Ariel a 
more than adequate background of classical 
music, but it was the Western rock of the black 
market that added excitement to his life. 
"In the very strict Soviet society we only heard 
classical music and folk songs," Ariel said. There, 
however, was a "buzz" circulating about 
Western music. 
"There was 'something' called Beatles, but we didn't know what it was ... I thought maybe they were a symphony orchestra." 
At about age 16, he finally heard the first notes of the Beatles' "White Album." 
"It was the biggest experience of my life," he said. "It was like an out of body experience-out of mind-out of this world! It was so wonderful and so different from the system I was accustomed to. I fell In love with it!" 
It was this "different spirit and mood" that inspired Ariel to study Western music inspite of the danger it put him in under Soviet law. 
He immediately recognized that the Western songs had the same basic structure of classical pieces, with the main difference that Western music was "delivered in a different way." 
Experimenting and studying this new music, he "tried to pick out songs and recreate their character. They weren't made for the piano, but that's all I had." 
To stay true to the music he loved, Ariel learned to "translate honestly." 
At 19, he came to the conclusion that there was nothing left for him in the Soviet Union. 
"I had been exposed to a whole new way of life; not just economic or political, but cultural as well," he said. 
"For centuries Soviet pianists have been playing the classics, I wanted to play the classics I considered classic-even if they had only been 
around for five, 10 or 20 years." He asked himself, "Why am I confined to this life? 
"At that time, I didn't know that Gorbachev 
would come and things would begin to change." 
Ariel looks at the evolving situation in Russia 
with an air of disbelief. 

"It was a different Russia when I grew up," he said. "The system seemed so strong, so powerful. Now, suddenly it's gone overnight. Wow! 
"For me it's very difficult to comprehend. 
"Hopefully one day (the Soviet Union) will be a 
completely free society," he said. 
During his youth, however, a free society was 
nowhere in sight and he longed for the promised 
freedom of the United States. 
For the next two years, Ariel tried to leave the Soviet Union. He applied for a visa and was turned down five times. Finally, in 1986 he became a U.S. citizen, settling In Houston. 
"Haven't you ever met a Russian cowboy?" he asked. Ariel uses his experiences as a springboard for "instant bonding" with his audiences. 
Between songs he tells stories and gives listener's a feel for what he has been through during his life. 
"I need that contact," said Ariel. "It brings us (he and the audience) closer. 
"People go crazy!" said an excited Ariel. "I came here insecure. Some said I wouldn't make it. I was amazed to see that people, especially students, went for what I'm doing. 
"Surprise grew into desire to do more -to give more enjoyment." 
Ariel's performances follow no strict formula, although he usually plays selections of classic rock, "Jesus Christ Superstar" or "Phantom of the Opera," original compositions, and even a few Russian folk songs (his "trademark"). 
"(His performances) are constantly evolving and changing," states Ariel. "They don't repeat themselves -each one is a new and different experience. 
"I just go with the flow!" he said. 
Ariel will appear at 8 p.m. Sept. 12 and 13 at Washington Hall. Tickets are $8 for students and $10 for non-students. 
Ariel's performance is sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 

Accent

page 10 Thursday, September 12, 1991 

•

r1s Rockers 


The Drovers kick off 'Chicago's Finest' concert series 
The Drovers will perform their energetic brand of music tonight at 7 p.m. at Theodore's. 


By FRAN MOYER 
Accent Writer 

Grab a pint of Guinness, my friends. The Drovers are in town. 
"Who are the Drovers?" you ask. Well, let me tell you lest you miss out on seeing this exciting up-and­coming band tonight at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 
The Drovers are a Chicago based quintet who belt out some of the best Irish Trad Rock I have ever heard. 
Their line-up consists of Sean Cleland (fiddle), Kathleen Keane (flute, tin whistle, accordion, and vocals), Mike Kirkpatrick (guitar, vocals), Dave Callahan (bass, vocals), and Jackie Moran (drums, vocals). 
The band has had an interesting touring history. 
Not only have they played the Chicago club scene, but they have also opened up for blues legend Lonnie Brooks, performed at the 33rd annual Schoten World Folk Festival in Belgium, and played at the opening of the Grace Kelly Memorial Library in Monaco. 
The Drovers, however, have not limited themselves strictly to tour­ing. They have made two albums and appeared in the retirement­party scene of last spring's hit movie, "Backdraft." 
As far as recognition, the Chicago Tribune has hailed them as "Chicago's answer to the Pogues." 
This high praise, however, does not give the band the justice they deserve. In my humble opinion, they stand head and shoulders above the Pogues. 
The Drovers are genuine. They, unlike other "Irish" bands, don't spit in the face of traditional Irish music. 
Instead, they embrace it and combine it with a driving edge that inspires one to bang a fist and shout for another pint. 
Their music, to put it simply, rocks. Yes, this band has energy, the likes of any drunken pub-band playing in Dublin. 
One can automatically sense their musical dynamism on their recent self-titled album, especially on my favorite two cuts, "Juliette," and "The Boys and the Babies." 
Their songs combine howling melodies with a vast array of traditional folk instruments, like the violin and flute. This interesting combination creates a sound that I can only describe as a mixture of Joy Division and the Clancy Brothers. Odd, but very effective. 
The Drovers will be bringing this unique blend of Irish folk music and progressive rock to Notre 
This year-long concert series is designed to showcase up-and­coming Chicago bands in South Bend at an affordable price. 
So, come to the first show in what appears to be a great year-long concert senes an see t e rovers. Believe me, you will enjoy it. 
The Drovers will be performing tonight at Theodore's. Tickets are $5 in advance and $6 at the door. 
Advanced tickets may be purchased at LaFortune Box Office, Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office, and Tracks Records. 
'Major Options' assists students' career search 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Each begins with statistics
Ml,ior Options: Tba Student's 
from 1983, 1985 and 1988 as
Literary Critic 

to how many enrolled in that It seems commonplace to sit 
Gl*la to Linking eonaga 
specific program to achieve
MaJors and career 

their bachelors, masters and age students who talk about around wit~a group of college­
Ph.D degrees. what they want to do with their 
Opportunities During and Attar 
Colaga 

Following these profiles, a These are students who know lives. 
sample of courses one might their interests, but are not sure 
By Nicholas Basta, Harper Perennial 
take to obtain that major are
publishers, 1991. Available 
listed.
where these same interests will 
at the ND Bookstore, $12.95. 

Basta then includes a career. and find a career that matches comments from graduates of 
Understanding this problem, their educational talents. that major as to where their Nicholas Basta, a chemical It does not give the answers, college major has taken them. engineer turned writer, has de­but it puts all the cards on the Each profile ends with a list of cided to aid students in fmding table and makes sure the careers directly linked to that a college major that will help reader knows what options are major. them prepare for the career of available. 
take them in their path toward 

The second half of "Major their choice. 
Options" summarizes over one The book is divided into two hundred careers where a col­
Basta lends a helping hand in parts. The frrst part is a sum­lege degree is necessary or ad­his how-to manual, "Major mary of majors, while the sec­visable. Options: The Student's Guide to ond lists careers. 
Linking College Majors and In the frrst section, 30 of the Each entry provides an Career Opportunities During most common programs of address and phone number of 
and After College." concentration for four-year one or more professional asso­"Major Options" can help college degrees are profiled, ciations for additional informa­students choose the right major from accounting to visual arts. tion. 
-:It •:: •. • t" 

Basta often cross-references back to the first part of the book when describing what typical undergraduate pro­grams people have majored in to reach their desired career. 
Linking a major to a career is confusing, but the book is not. "Major Options" is a gen­eral guide to what exists out in the big bad world. 
It makes that heavily fogged decision-making process a little bit more clear. 
Thursday, September 12, 1991 page 11 
The Obeerver accepta claa&nleda wary bualneaa day !rom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame ollica, 314 LaFortune and !rom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at the Salnt Maty'e oillot, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor nexHiay claaaHieda Ia 3p.m. All claaaHieda 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The clharge Is 2 cents per clharacter per day, Including all apacea. 
$350.00/ DAY Processing  TV FOR SALE. Philips 13 inch  WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD  NEED 4 Mich St. G.A.'s  I am the Lizard King and I can do  
NOTICES  PHONE ORDERSI PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  color TV. Cable compatible w/ remote control.(only 8 months  JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC  Rob x4352  anything.  
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242  old) Price $200. Please call  ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­ HAVE TENN. GA'S  $$$$  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII  2775079 and ask for Dimitris  0654.  NEED MICH. ST. GA'S  Need GA's to all home games.  
25% off list price  PANAMA CITY BEACH  or leave a message.  LIBBY X4868 OR 4870  have extra Purdue tix.  
10-5:30 everyday  This Spring Break earn free trips  Please help desperate alumniI  Call Tom x1563  
Pandora's Books corner of ND  and make the most money. Sell the  Need 2 Mich St. GA'sl  NEEDEDI Mich .St. tix -2 ga 1 stud.  
ave & Howard  best location on the beach next to  FOR SALE  Call X4189  Call Scott '2373  Happy binhday Joe Robens.  
the world's largest night dubs.  '88 F-150 truck  
TYPING AVAILABLE  Campus reps needed to promote  5.0 liter, 5 &pd. man. trans.  Will Trade 2 GA tickets to Mich St,  Need Tenn. GAs for Desen  Going to CLEVELAND this  
287-4082  Spring Break. Call Kim at 1-800­ 52000 mi, 10000 lb Reese  or USC for 2 to Tenn. or will  Storm Vets. Call Keith 2326  weekend? I might like a ride,  
558-3002.  hitch, green w/ alum. cap  purchase Tenn tickets at top$$.  please. Pete x1791.  
Great Harvest Bread Co.  dual fuel tanks  Call Chris or Ed  Needs GAs to all home games esp.  
Indian Ridge Plaza  Do you play bass guitar? If so, we  Call Ray Warren for more info  1-800-800-0061  4 for USC, call271-9165  Native offers  
NOW HIRING -Pan Time.  need you. A few NO students are  home 679-4542  Spanish classes  
$6 per hour. Contact Carol  forming a band. Call Jason at 287­ work 272-2144  I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE  HELPI Four Persian Gulf War Vets  Beatriz , 272 9713  
at271-1100alter 12:30  8818.  WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A  missed last ND season coming for  
Tuesday thru Saturday.  MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES,  RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS  Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven  DEAR MARY, WE THINK YOUR  
"' H E L P II ••• Anyone who  PLAYS ND VICTORY MARCH.  ADDED BONUS  #2201  BIRTHDAY AD IS DUMB.  
Book Sale sponsored by the  taped Sept. 9 episode of •Evening  $10. ORDER YOURS NOW.  CHRIS X3414 or 3410  TOM& STEVE  
dass of 1993. Pick up your  Shade", call271-9165. Will return  BETTY 239-7458 OR 289-1321  Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn.  
unsold books and money  tape next day.  
 "Wanted U. Michigan tkts"  GA's Make my life call Dave #2201  YES, YOU HEARD RIGHT, IT IS  
starting Tuesday Sept. 1 0 in the Junior Class Office. Pick all books and money up  FOR RENT  I (  TICKETS  Dave 256-5034 NEED 2-3 MSU GAs  Michigan St GA's NEEDEDI Call Sharon 284-5146  LAURA SOCKASAURAS' JEFFIRS 22nd BIRTHDAYII Call her at 272-2109 and ask her if  
by Friday Sept. 13  I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL  STEVE #1083  she will show you her sockslll  
VCR, TV Rentals:  HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306  HELPI NEED 6 MSU GA'S  
The DOS User's Group  Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters  I'll sell you my book of stud tickets  BADLYICALL MIKE X1630.  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  
will be holding it's first  only $99.95.  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  #232-7498  
meeting of the year  13" color TV, two semesters only  PLEASE 1111 I need two GA's to  Brad, 21 21 211 HAPPY B-DAY I  
Thurs. 9112 in RM. 227  $69.95.  $$$.SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN  Will trade invitation to the BEST  ANY home game, esp. MSU. X1715  Todd  
of the Copmputer-Math Build.  VCR, two semesters, $99.95.  STATE TICKETS. $$$  tailgater ever for 4 GA's to the Mich  
at7:00 p.m.  For fast free delivery, call  St. game. PLEASE HELP MElli  I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY  FINALLY LEGALI Happy 21ST  
COLLEGIATE RENTALS  I would like to buy 2 GA's  Call Jon Paul at 271-8049.  PLEASE HELP MEl x4312 John  BRADI Love Allison  
272-5959.  
NOTRE DAME VIDEO  Call Julie at x1342  HELP N.Y. ALUMNI-need MSU  Need Mich St GA's  THEODORE'S  
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO  tix. please call x1676  Karen x4808  
'NEW MOVIES"  NO. Effidencies & one-bdrm.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  THEODORE'S  
Utilities paid. Call 255-9664.  Need 2 GA's lor MSU  I need tix for Tenn. (GA or Stu)  
-Awakenings  Need I.U. and all other tickets  will pay$$$  Call Joe at x2064.  THEODORE'S  
-Dances With Wolves  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  call X1562  
-Edward Sdssorhands  219-291-7153  call Bill @ X1747  Have Pin & TENNGA's, need  Saturday nite:  
-New Jack City  I HAVE PURDUE TIX  PENN ST. Call (703)768-0607  
-HomeAione  BED&BREAKFAST FOR NO/ST.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL JIM X2341  D.J. ROYIIIIII  
MARY'S FAMILIES. 2  I need 2 MSU GA's.  
"SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP  BEDROOMS, PRIVATE BATH.  NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's  Call 283-2067.  10to 1:30  House Party  
RATES"  TEN MINUTES FROM CAMPUS  I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME  CALL JOE X2341  
-Basement ol the Stud. Center  SAFEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN  AND AWAY GAMESII  NEED Pin GA'S, AND TEN.  ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor  
4:00-7:00p.m.  AREA. 234-2626  Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STill Call  STUDENT TIX -CALL JOHN 246611  and teacher, longing to share our  
7DAYSA WEEK  CALL JOE  Pete x1791.  love with newborn. We'll give your  
LOST/FOUNDI  A quaint effidency in lovely old mansion near N. D. 225/mo. plus deposit call 2879624  X1762 I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY  I have 2 NAVY GA's would like to trade for  AHHHHHHHII really need Michigan St. tickets!  baby a caring, warm and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect (212) 874-3537.  
LOST KEYS, LOST KEYS. I LOST  2 PittGA's  CALL MAn x33n  
4 KEYS ON A NIKE KEY CHAIN.  Three and four bedroom homes lor  CALL TOM  Chris x1998  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
PLEASE CALL 277-9468, LEAVE  rent. Walking distance to Notre  X1762  Need Pin GA for young bro.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
MESSAGE . THANKS.  Dame.  LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3  Tim X1409  lor a quote 9:30-6:00,  
232-5411 or 234-0379.  NEED MSU TIX  Tennessee studs. Call George  289-1993. Office near campus.  
FOUND: One man's watch  Angie x2172  atx1672.  NEED MICH. ST. TICKET  
on lawn in front of Keenan- AnENTION FEMALE GRADUATE  FOR VISITING VIP  COMEDIANS NEEDEDII  
Stanford. Please call x2722  STUDENT: Will trade room for  NEED Tennessee GA's badly for  NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S.  WILL PAY$$$  Tryouts lor Notre Dame comedy- 
to claim.  household services. Must  folks Call Sconx3898  CALL JOHN 31 2-951 -41 67 DAYS,  PHIL-289-6494  improv troupe Sept 16-6:30 pm- 
have transponation and be  OR 312-929-9411 EVENINGS.  Basement of Walsh HaiL Bring  
available after 2:30p.m. Call  HelpIll  GAs FOR SALE: 2 Michigan,  yourself and some creativity.  
LOST: SILVER FILIGREE PEN  683-3886 evenings.  NEED 4 NAVY GA'S  2 USC, 4 Purdue  ???s---Call Tim and Doug at x2266.  
WITH MY NAME CARVED ON IT- My parents are coming out to  CALLX3806  Best offer winsI  
LEIS ROBBINS. I'VE HAD FT FOR 13 YEARS AND IT MEANS A LOT  FOR SALE  celebrate my 21st birthday on Saturday the 21st. They need 2  NEED MICHIGAN GA TIX. $$$ .  Call Chris @ 1 023  "Get me out of these wet clothes and into a dry Martini I"  
TO ME. I LOST IT IN THE  MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a  CORKY 257-8527  NEED MICH. TIX  Hehehehehehehehehehe--SG  
BOOKSTORE. PLEASE CALL 273­ MacGregor Tour golf clubs,  golden birthday.  JOE X2341  
0703.  induding bag, cart, and balls.  DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S  LEARN TO SKYDIVE I Classes  
Excellent condition. $190. 233­ Call Julie at x1342  1 MSU  I need 2 GAs (together) lor the  every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am.  
FOUND: Picture of a navy man  9094.  2PITI  Michigan State game. Please  Eastern time. Train and jump the  
(one not in ND NROTC) found by  I have $$$$$ lor your Mich St  PLEASE HELPI  helpIIIII call Jen, 283-4098.  same day. Modern equipment and  
Infirmary. If yours, give Jeni a call at  CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill  GAsl Call Kirstin at 4279 or  KAREN X4918  training programs. Licensed  
x4209.  T-Shins, Sweatshins, doseout T­ 4208.  HELPII NEED 2 PITT GA'S FOR  instructors. FFI call Skydive  
Shins $7. Sweatshins, $12. Phone  I DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 3  PARENTS CALL TIM X4063  Hastings (616) 948-2665.  
LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET  Game Day Promotions 291-6394.  Need9 USCtix  GA'S FOR PITT GAME Ill  
LAST MON. NIGHT  Anythingfl x2735  X1684  DESPERATELY!  THURSDAY SEPT. 12TH  
PLEASE CALL ED OR STEVE AT  USED AND RECONDITIONED  DESPERATELY!  BE ATCLUB23  
X3402 REWARDI  BIKES  SEASON TIX FOR SALE.  NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN.  DESPERATELY need PITT and/or  Tony Graffeo presents  
Please call289-9101 between 12 &  CALL (219) 931-0772  GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR  TENNESSEE tickets I  an acoustic whorehouse of  
Pair NIKE AIR Sneakers taken  6 pm Monday through Saturday if  PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­ Contact Allison x2750111  ORIGINAL songs and stories.  
unintentionally from Rockne Sept.  interested.  I need 4 Tenn. stud tix.  612-227-75n.  (also various covers)  
4-PLEASE return to Rock-NO  Will beat any price,  My dad's rich.  
QUESTIONS ASKEDII  LAPTOP COMPUTER  TRY ME II  WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO  Sell me an MSU GA.  "CLUB23"  
Zenith 181, dual3.5 drives  Call: 259-6956  HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL  Mickey, x1846  
IBM P.C. compatible  COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON.  ROMEO, ROMEO  
LOST:Watch-lelt i" locker at  DOS, in carton, rarely used.  NEEDED: 2 GAs lor NAVY game  Will trade awsome Mich. St.  Wherefore ar1 thou, Romeo???  
sw1mming test, & missing when I  Call 272-3255  Call Eileen at x4965  NOTRE DAME  GA.'s for USC G.A.'s #1798  
returned.lt has a black face and  TICKETS WANTED  My dearest Juliet,  
band, with gold trim.  LAURAJEFFIRS IS FOR SALE­ $$$NEEDED-PITT GA'S$$$  271-1371  NEEDED:I TENN STUD TIX-Iife  Stepan Center Is where I'll be,  
Call Bill at 2787,Carroll Hall.  ONE NIGHT ONLY-Chuckie is sure  Please help me out. Call D. J.  depends on it.Prica no object.Call  With the Ballroom Dance Club ­ 
No questions asked, REWARDII  to show you a good time-and if you  x1027  NOTRE DAM~ TICKETS  Brian x3083  Come danca with me Ill  
are really lucky she might take her  FOR SALE.  
found: intermediate accounting  socks offll  NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR  CALL 271-1371.  WILL TRADE USC and NAVY stud  111 be there every Thursday  
book. 277-9468  Call 272-2109 w/ your bid. You  NAVY GAME. CALL MARK  tix plus$ lor 2 PITT GAs CALL  From 8:00-9:30 at night.  
could possibly make this Laura's  COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161.  NEED M.ST. TIX  MIKE 289-8029  And If you STEP on my TOES­ 
LOST: small gold bracelet  best birthday everII  NEED PITT TIX  Well, I guess It's alright  
Call Lisa at X4989. FOUND  No VEGETARIANS PLEASE II Tape Deck, Stereo Cabinet,  $NEEDED$ 1 Michigan State GA for a spedal guest. Pis. call Kim  213-470-4419 t.v. Mssg.  ' MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE ' • INDVL. AND/OR 4 TOGETHER". CALL MICHAEL @ X2368 '  ........................  
FOUND  Very large pillow. Steve,  x4271  PLEASE Ill need just one student or  
 Come see the bar debut of PALACE  
239-6847  GA ticket to the Michigan State  WILL TRADE PITI. STUD TIX  LAUNDRY on Thursday Sept. 12@  
pair of CONTACTS  I need PITT GAs  game. Call Amy x1347.  FOR MICH. ST. STUD TIX. OR  BRIDGET'S. Music starts around  
between  Used Computers:  Paul 283-3863  WILL BUY MICH. ST. STUD TIX  10:30, after Houston takes care of  
Knot and P.E.  Mac Plusl2ddlpr  WANTED  BILL 4334  business against Miami.  
caiiX2688  Apple Jigs w/Works Laptop 386 W/hd  I NEED 8 PITT & 4 TENN. TIXII CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER  6 Michigan State GA's 284-5105  I NEED 1 STUD OR GA FOR  ........................  
to  Man(x1778) or John (W-2176)  WILL BE REFUSEDIII  MICH ST  
daim  Need Mlch St. and USC GAs  Make up to $50 an hour modeling.  
AnENTION: BANDS 1111  I NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S;  call Phil at x2096  CHRISX1699  AAA MODELING is  
WANTED  Quality PA system 4-sale VERY REASONABLE II  $$AND WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S_ CALL DAVE @283-1545.  ......................  looking lor male model~ear size medium; females-5'T or taller/size  
Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064  TOP$$$ FOR GA TENN TXS  HELP I  7. Par1 time, can schedule around  
I NEED 2 OR 3 SOUTHERN CAL  RANDY 800-323-7687  I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN  dasses. Call 255-7275.  
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND  Guitar Lessons  GA'S; CALL DAVE @283-1545.  STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH  
EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE II  from ND teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343  NEED 4 NAVY GAs  TRADE 2 TENN/2 PITT GA FOR 2 USC GA X4045  CALL 3353 ASK FOR scan......................  FINNEGANS WAKE  
Openings available for individuals or  WILL PAY GOOD$$$  music for the rest of us  
student organizations to promote  scan 2n-3327  Have 2 Pin GA's trade lor MSU  Sale: Stud. Ticket Book-All  
the country's most successful  Microsoft Windows 3 ($49), Excel  GA's. 717-757-1934.  remaining home games. Call  
SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­ 2.1 ($75), Word for Windows  NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR  234-2594 & leave offer or  To Our Big 01' Men- 
Campus Programs  ($1 25), or all for $225. (616) 471­ MSUI KATE 4998.  namelnumber.  We do It because we love you II II  
1612  Need Tenn. GA tix. Willing to  Have a nice dayI  
1-800-327-6013.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  trade a # of Pin or Navy tix or pay.  For Sale: 2 Mich. G.A.'S  -Cheryl, Agi, Colleen, and  
MUST SELLI 1988 SUZUKI 4  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  Call Scon x1763.  Call Tucker X4246  Gennie  
DRUMSII You got 'em, we want  WHEEL DRIVE 38,000 MILES  
'em. Call Joe at 271-1211 or Jason at 287-8818.  $5,000 CALL 233-7662 AFTER 5 PM.  WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA FOR 2 MSU GA. 312-883-5124.  NEED PITT TIX CALL Man #1518  PERSONALS  

see CLASS/page 13 

.. .., 
page 12 

Thursday, September 12, 1991 
GYMNASTICSMAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS 

I 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Team and Individual TRANSACTIONS
Individual AMERICAN LEAGUE 1, Svellana Bogulnskla, Soviet Union, 79.548. 2, 
&landings Wednosday alter completion of women's 
optional compet~lon In the World Gymnastics 

E..t Dlvlalon Cristina Bonta&, Romania, 79.336. 3, Tallanna 
w L Pa CE l10 Streak Home Away Channpionshipa at the Hoosier Dome (top 12 Gutau, Soviet Union, 79.298. 4, Shannon Miller, 
BASEBALL

teams quaiWy tor 1992 Olympics In Barcelona, Spain): American LeagueToronto 79 82 .580 8-4 Lost 2 40.32 39-30 Unltad Stataa, 711.23&. 5, Tatlana Llsonko, 
Boston 74 65 .532 4 z-8-2 Lost 1 38·31 38-34 Soviet Union, 79.211. 6, Henrietta Onodl, Hungary, 
Team MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Named Toby Oldham Detro~ 73 66 .525 5 4-8 Won 1 44-26 29-40 79.111. 
strength coach.

1, Soviet Union, 396.055. 2, United Stataa, NewYolll 60 384.11&. 3, Romania, 393.841. 4, China 390.642. BASKETBALL Milwaukee 85 72 .474 12 z-5-5 Lost 4 38-32 29-40 7, Kim Zmaakal, United Stataa, 711.086. 8, 
78 .435 17 112 z-2-8 Lost 6 33-35 27-43 Oksana Tchusovnlna, Soviet Union, 78.986. 9, National Baakatball Aaaoclation
5, Bulgaria, 386.879, 6, Australia 385.279. SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Signed Stephen Bardo, BMimore 58 81 .417 20 5·5 Won 3 28-43 30-38 Roza Galleva, Soviet Union, 78.949. 10, 
7, Spain, 384.813. 8, Hungary 383.388. 9, North Korea, 382.439. 10, Germany, 380.954. 11, Cleveland 45 93 .326 32112 2-8 Won 1 23-46 22-47 Elizabeth Oklno, United Stelae, 78.1123. 11, guard.

Mlrela Pasca, Romania, 78.688. 12, Lavinia FOOTBALL
France, 380.839. 12, Canada, 379.802. 13, Japan, w L 379.568. 14, Czechoslovakia, 378.449. 15, ttaly, National Football Laague Weat Dlvlelon Mllosovicl, Romania, 78.598. 
Pa CE L10 Streak Home Away 13, Vanda Hadaroan, Romania, 78.547. 14, Minnesota 378.228. 16, South Korea, 377.375. 17, Great BUFFALO BILLS-Claimed Brad Dalulso, kicker, 
85 55 .607 z-8-2 Lost 1 45-25 40.30 Natalia Kallnlna. Soviet Union, 78.511. 15, Karrl 
Britain, 374.965. 18, Argentina, 370.353. off waivers from Atlanta. Waived David Bavaro, 
Chicago 77 64 .546 8112 z-7-3 Lost 1 40.29 37-35 Slrug, United Stelae, 78.448. 
linebacker.

Oakland 75 66 .532 10112 3-7 Won 1 41-30 34-36 CINCINNATI BENGALS--Ro-slgned Mike Texas 72 65 .526 11112 5-5 Won 1 38-28 33-37 MAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS Brennan, offensive lineman. Waived Bernard
KansasC~ 71 68 .511 

13 112 4-6 Won 1 34-37 37-31 Seattle Clark, linebacker.
70 69 .504 14 112 3-7 Won 2 39-29 31-40 INDIANAPOLIS COL TS--Piaced Albert Bantley,CaiHomla 69 69 .500 15 6-4 Lost 1 34-36 35-33 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NAnONAL LEAGUE running back, on Injured reserve. Signed Cedric BATTING-Franco, Texas, .341; Boggs, Boston, BATTING-Morris, Cincinnati, .317; TGwynn, Figaro, linebacker.
NATIONAL LEAGUE &at Dlvlalon .338; Mol~or, Milwaukee•.332; Palmelro, Texas, San Diego, .317; Jose, St. Louis, .316; Pendleton, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Billy Bell, .330; Puckett, Mlnnosota, .330; Tartabull, Kansas 
Atlanta, .314; McGee, San Francisco, .308; Bonilla, cornerback. Signed Robert Morris, defensive end, Pittsburgh 83 56 .597 z-8-4 C~•.326; Thomas, Chicago, .323. Pittsburgh, .308; Sabo, Cincinnati, .304; WCiark, and Anthony Parker, cornerback, to the practice 
w L Pa CE L10 Streak Home Away 
Won 1 41-27 42·29 

St. Louis RUNS-Mol~or, Milwaukee, 110; Palmelro, San Francisco, .304. roster. Waived Stophon Weatherspoon, linebacker, 
72 66 .522 10112 z-3-7 Lost 2 42-28 30.38 
Texas, 101; Canseco, Oakland, 100; Sierra, Texas, 
Chicago 69 70 .496 14 4-6 RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 99; Johnson, New from the practice roster.
Lost 1 41-30 28-40 99; Whhe, Toronto. 97; Raines, Chicago, 92; LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Torry Crews, 

New York York, 93; Sandberg, Chicago. 89; JBell, Pittsburgh, 
67 72 .482 18 z-4-8 Won 2 34-36 33-36 
Philadelphia 66 .475 z-4-8 1 Thomas, Chicago, 91; Franco, Texas, 91. 87; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 86; Pendleton, Atlanta, 85; linebacker, and Chris Pike, defensive tackle. 
73 17 Lost 39-30 27·43 
Montreal 60 78 .435 RBI-Fielder, Detro~. 121; Thomas, Chicago, Gant, Atlanta, 84; OSmtth, St. Louis, 84. Placed Frank Slams, linebacker, and Bill Hawkins,
22112 z-8-2 Won 1 34-35 26-43 
103; Cansoco, Oakland, 101; Carter, Toronto, 99; detonslve end, on Injured reserve.
RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, 105; Bonds, Weal Dlvlelon Pittsburgh, 99; Johnson, New York, 98; Bonilla, NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Signed Buford
Sierra, Texas, 98; JuGonzalez, Texas, 95; Ventura, Chicago, 92; CRipken, BMimore, 92. Pittsburgh, 90; McGriff, San Diego, 90; Dawson, Jordan, fullback. Waived Scon Ross, linebacker.
w L Pa CE L10 Streak Home Away IITS-Molltor, Milwaukee, 186; Palmelro, Chicago, 90; Gan~ Atlanta, 87. NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Dennis Ransom, Atlanta 79 60 .568 7·3 Won 6 42-29 37·31 
Loa Angeles 79 Texas, 180; Puckett, Minnesota, 178; Sierra, HITS--TGwynn, San Diego, 167; Butler, Loa tight end, to the practice squad. Waived Stove 
61 .564 112 7·3 Won 1 44·24 35-37 
San Diego 71 .507 Z-8·2 Lost 1 37-34 Texas, 176; CRipken, BMimore, 176; Franco, Angeles, f62; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 156; Jose, St. Clark, tight end, from the practice squad. 
69 8112 34-35 Texas, 173; Boggs, Boston, 166; Sax, New York, Louis, 155; Pendleton, Atlanta, 155; Grace, WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Signed RaphCincinnati 67 72 .482 12 3·7 Lost 1 35-36 32-36 
166. • 

Chicago, 154; WCiark, San Francisco, 152; Tamm, offensive lineman, and Clarence Vaughn, Houston 57 82 .410 22 4·6 4 San Francisco 64 75 .460 15 2-8 Won 1 35-33 29-42 DOUBLES--Palmelro, Texas, 41; Griffey Jr. Sandberg, Chicago, 152. defensive back. Placed Ed Simmons, offensiveLost 34-37 23-45 
Seattle, 40; Sierra, Texas, 38; Carter. Toronto. 38; DOUBLES--Bonllla, Pittsburgh, 39; Jose, St. Iackie, and Alvin Watton, defensive back, on
z-denotes first game was a win. CRipken, Bahimore, 38; Boggs, Boston, 37; Louis, 38; Sabo, Cincinnati, 32; O'Neill, Cincinnati, Injured reserve. RAiomar, Toronto, 38; Whhe, Toronto, 36. 
31; Morris, Cincinnati, 30; Gant, Atlanta, 30; JBall, Canadian Football League TRIPLES--LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Molitor, Pittsburgh, 30. BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed BillAMERICAN LEAGUE Wedneaday'a Gamee Milwaukee, 11; RAiomar, Toronto, 10; McRae, 
TRIPLES--Lanklord, St. Louis, 13; TGwynn, San Goldberg, defensive tackle. Kansas Chy, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, HOCKEYTueaday'a Gamea Late Game Not Included 
Diego, 11; Finley, Houston, 10; LGonzaloz, Minnesota, 9; Devereaux, Baltimore, 8; Mack, Houston, 8; Grissom, Montreal, 8; Candaolo, National Hockey LeagueCleveland 5, M llwaukee 2 Oakland 6, Chicago 5, 10 Innings 
BO&ton 4, Detro~ 0 Baltimore 4, ~York 2 Minnesota, 8; Polonla, CaiWornla, 8. PITISBUAGH PENGUINS-signed Jim Paek, 
Houston. 7; Van Slyke, Pittsburgh, 7. HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroh, 40; Canseco, HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York. 33; Gant, detonseman, and Bruce Racine, goalie. Agreed toSeattle 5, Toronto 4 Detron 8, Boston 2 
BMimore 6, New York 3 Seattle 7, Toronto 3 Oakland, 38; Carter, Toronto, 32; Thomas, 
Atlanta, 28; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 28; terms with Gord Roberts, detensoman. Chicago, 30; Tartabull, Kansas Ctty, 28; CDavis, WINNiPEG JETS-Signed'Gord DonnellY.
Minnesota 7, Kansas C~y 2 Cleveland at Milwaukee, ppd., rain 
McGriff, San Diogo, 27; KvMitchell, San Francisco, Minnesota, 27; CRipken, Baltimore, 27.
Chicago 3, Oakland 1 Kansas C~y 4, Minnesota 1 
27; WCiark, San Francisco, 26; Dawson. Chicago, detenseman, loa muhlyear contract. STOLEN BASES--RHonderson. Oakland, 50; 25. Eaat Coall Hockey LeagueTexas 6, California 1 Texas at California (n) 
Thuraday'a Gamea Raines, Chicago, 48; RAtomar, Toronto, 43; CINCINNATI CYCLONES-Named Stove Benoit 

STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 69; Grissom, Boston (Morton 4·3) at New York (Perez 1·2), 7:30p.m. 
Polonla, Calffornla, 39; Cuyler, Detroh, 35; Whhe, 

Montreal, 65; DeShields, Montreal, 52; Bonds, trainer and equipment manager and Don HelbigCleveland (Nagy 8·12) at Ba~imore (Mesa 5-9), 7:35 p.m. 
Toronto, 32; Franco, Texas, 27. Pittsburgh, 40; Coleman. New York, 37; Butler, Los assistant public relations director and Detro~ (leiter 8·3) at Milwaukee (Boslo 10.10), 8:05p.m. 
PITCHING (14 Decislons)-Erlckson, 

Angeles, 37; Lankford, St. Louis, 33. merchandising manager.
Minnesota (Morris 18-10) at Texas (Ryan 9-8), 8:35p.m. 
Minnesota, 18-6, .750, 3.13; Langston, CaiHornla, COLLEGE
PITCHING (13 Decisions)-Rijo, Cincinnati, 13­Chicago (Fernandez 8-12) at California (Finley 17-8), 10:35 p.m. 
17-7, .708,3.11;JoGuzman, Texas, 11-5, .687, 

4, .765, 2.48; Carpenter, St. Louis, 10-4, .714, 4.23; DREXEL-Announced tho roliroment of William NATIONAL LEAGUE 2.85; Finley, CaiHornla, 11·8, .680, 3.64; Downs, San Francisco, 10.4, .714, 3.92; Logu, men's swimming and diving coach. 
MiWilliams, Philadephia, 10-4, .714, 2.08; Hurst, 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Frlday'a Gamea Gullickson, Detroit, 17-8•.680, 4.24; JAbbott, FDU·MADISON-Named Mike Cieri, Glen New York 4, Chicago 1 Montreal at Chicago, 3:20p.m. Calhornla, 16-8, .667, 2.92; Clemens, Boston, 15-8, San Diego, 15·6, .714, 3.14; Smiley, Pittsburgh, Gottshal<, Wade Watkins, Ernie Piano, Bob San Francisco 4, Cincinnati 2 Houston et Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. .652, 2.44. 
17-8, .680, 3.39; DeJesus, Philadelphia, 10·5, Celeste, Dave Wilson, Kevin Costello assistant Montreal 6, Phlladephia 5 Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 204; .667, 3.34; Glavlne, Atlanta, 18-9, .667, 2.32. football coaches; Jack Sullivan and Pal Dougherty,
Atlanta 1, San Diego 0 Los Angeles al Atlanta, 7:40p.m. RJohnson, Seattle, 191; McDowell, Chicago, 172; STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 191; Glavlno, men's assistant basketball coaches; Pat Los Angeles 9, Houston 1 New York al St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Ryan, Texas, 163; Candiotti, Toronto~153; Atlanta, 170; GMaddu~. Chicago, 167; Harnisch, Dougherty, assistant baseball coach; Melissa Pittsburgh 3, St. Louis 1 San Diego at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m. Langston, CaiHomla, 150; Swindell, Cleveland, Houston, 153; Gooden, New York. 150; Benes. Haggar, women's assistant softball coach and 
Thuraday'a Game• t49; Finley, California, 149. San Diego, 139; Hurst, San Diego, 139. women's sports rocruhing coordinator; and Ellen San Francisco (Heredia 0.0) at Cincinnati (Browning 13-10), 12:35 p.m. SAVES--Agullora, Minnesota, 39; Eckersley, 
SAVES--LoSmilh, St. Louis, 38; Dibble, Ziobro, women's assistant volleyball and women's New York (Young 1·1) at Chicago (Bieleckl13-8), 2:20p.m. Oakland, 39; Harvey, California, 38; Reardon, assistant basketball coach. 
Cincinnati, 28; MiWilliams, Philadelphia, 26; San Diego (Hurst15·6) at Atlanta (Lelbrandt 14-11), 5:40p.m. Boston. 37; Henke, Toronto, 31; Thigpen, Chicago, Franco. Now York, 25; Righetti, San Francisco, 22; Loa Angelos (Ojeda 10.8) at Houston (Kile 7-9), 7:05p.m. 29; Montgomery, Kansas City, 28. 
Lefferts, San Diego, 21; BLandrum. Pittsburgh. 17; Montreal (Nabholz 4·7) at Philadelphia (Ruffin 3-6) •. 7:35p.m. 
DaSm~h. Chicago, 17; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 

NOTRE DAME COUNCIL 
on 

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
ORIENTATION MEETING 
for ALL students: *interested in joining the NDCIBD *who signed up on Activities Night at ND and SMC 
• 
AND 

*who are return members from last year 
Date: THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
Place: ROOM 220 HAYES-HEALY 
Time: 7:30p.m. 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE!!! 

Thursday, September 12, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Tyson's past could be used in Indianapolis rape trial 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Prosecutors aren't revealing their strategy, although there Is speculation they will try to use allegations In Mike Tyson's past to help prove he committed rape In an Indianapolis hotel room on July 19. 
If they make an issue of com­plaints by several women who said Tyson made improper ad­vances toward them, they would be following the lead of prosecutors In the William Kennedy Smith rape trial In Florida. 
In that case, prosecutors are trying to Introduce allegations that Smith had sexually as­saulted women before. Smith, the nephew of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., is charged with the rape of a Florida woman at his family's estate in West Palm Beach. 
Tyson was Indicted Monday on rape, criminal deviate con­duct and confinement charges for the alleged attack on an 18­director of the Indiana Prosecuting Attorneys Council. 
Professor Henry Karlson of the Indiana University School of Law said it's not impossible that the state would use the common scheme and plan prosecution strategy. 
"They might try doing that here, if you're talking about the events on the night in question" and not evidence of previous misconduct, Karlson said. 
Evidence of prior misconduct "might be admissible to show intent to have sexual inter­course without consent. But, generally, prior acts ... are not admissible to prove you com­mitted the act (in question)," he said. 
Karlson said he believed the state more likely would pursue prosecution based on Tyson's state of mind. 
"They might try to show his state of mind that night was toward sexual activity with women," Karlson said. 
However, Karlson noted that If he were the defense attorney, he wouldn't oppose such evi­dence. 
"I'd blow it up and say, sure, everybody knew what he was up to and went up there anyway.... I'd be using it to show that she knew what was going on," he said. 
Good said that evidence of prior misconduct is "very rele­vant evidence, it's just so highly prejudicial." 
"In a sense of fairness, we have a rule of evidence that does not allow that type of evi­dence to be introduced unless you can establish something very narrow in common scheme and plan," Good said. 
Class 
continued from page 11 
ND Smart Punx 
X 1910 

demand your freedom 
year-old Miss Black America contestant. Innocent pleas were entered for him Wednesday in Marlon Superior Court. 
Tyson has been sued by at least two women who claim he fondled their buttocks, and by his ex-wife's aide for sexual as­sault and harassment. His ex­wife, actress Robin Givens, has publicly said that Tyson beat her. And several contestants in the Miss Black America pageant in Indianapolis have claimed that Tyson made improper advances toward them in the day before the alleged rape. 
The New York Daily News, quoting an unidentified source close to the investigation, re­ported Wednesday that prose­cutors in the Tyson case would argue that the boxer "had a common scheme and plan to at­tempt to commit sexual assault In the hours before the alleged rape." 
Rob Smith, a spokesman for Marion County prosecutor Jeffrey Modisett, said it is pre­mature to discuss trial strategy because the prosecution team hasn't been named. 
However, when asked whether allegations of prior misconduct by Tyson might be included as part of the prosecu­tion, Smith said, "If evidence would be relevant and would help prove the state's case, we would use it." 
"Obviously, we're not pre­pared to discuss anything in­volving trial strategy at this point," Modisett said later. 
"We have a number of op­tions. All I can say is that we are not going to discuss our trial strategy, and any accounts that attribute a particular strategy to us should be sus­pect." 
The common scheme and plan prosecution strategy involves using evidence of other misconduct to help prove a crime was committed today, said Richard P. Good, executive 
SPORts BRIEFS 

•Riding 
lessons are available to anyone interested through the ND!SMC Equestrian club. Call ~en at 283-1715 or Larisse at 289-7829. Lessons start this week. 

•Any 
grad student or faculty member Interested In coaching, advising, and or competing In gymnastics should contact Tim Sulllvan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 

•Hapkldo/Tae 
Kwon Do club meets Mondays and Wednesdays 5:30-7:30 In room 301 of the Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. For more Information contact Sean at 3457. 

•The 
NO Rowing Club Invites all students interested In rowing 


Flower Deliver~ 7 Days
p@'S~ o PPttA 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Rowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~~~~l:rNS:hre (219) 277·1291 
to attend novice practices. Practices this week will be held today, Thursday, and Friday, starting at 4:30p.m. on Holy Cross Field. No experience Is necessary. 
•The NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. and Sunday 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6:00 to 8:00p.m. and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight In the basement of Farley at 7 p.m. All are welcome. For more Info, call Mark at 283-1586. 

•There 
will be a mandatory meeting for those interested In officiating women's flag football, grad/faculty football, or men's soccer for Rec Sports on Monday, September 16. Football meetings start at 6 p.m. and soccer at 7 p.m. Any questions, call Pete Skiko at either 239-6100 or 287-9258. Pay is 10 dollars per game for all sports.


~////////////////////////////////////1'.,
~  Pre-Law Society News:  ~  
~  ~  
~  Seniors!  ~  
~  ~  

~_.soiiiiu.-th.iiBiiien~IN-.4.-61iii63-.7-•P•••••••Aiiiiiiill..w.-•a.•-.•.z.41!!11b.rs.....~ There will not be a Personal Statement ~ 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
AN 
1992-93 Academic Year INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR LOUIS MACKENZIE THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,1991 7P.M. ROOM 115 O'SHAUGHNESSY Returning students will be on hand 10 answer questions 
m~ a©arJJ mcr~~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, Brett, Tom and Steve 

~ seminar ~n Thursday Sept. 12. Professor ~ ~oens will conduct the seminar on Thursday,~ ~ept.19 at 7:00pm in the Library Auditorium~ 
~ J ~ 
~ % 
~////////////////////////////////////}; 
Gina B. I love youl Your Manly Man, Dan 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
'NEW MOVIES' 
• 
Awakenings 

• 
Dances With Wolves · Edward Scissorhands · New Jack City 

• 
HomeAione 


"SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES" -Basement of the Stud. Center 
4:00 • 7:00p.m. 7DAYSAWEEK 
Hey Johnny D.• 
Happy Brithday t o our favorite A.A. From the Urkel Fan Club In the cavity. 
HEY DOUG WEBB ­
You should do your hair blue-I think people wpuld like you better!!II 
REE SAMPLE-make money on campus. No selling . No time • Send large self 
addressed stamped envelope to: SOP AX P.O. Box 2894 

RAISING 
For your fraternity,sororlty, team or other campus organization. 
A8101UII1I' NO 
INVIIJMINJ aiQUiaiDf 
CALL 1·800·950-8472, ext. 50 
I U!Il!J'tJ. MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
$1.00 orr Coupon 
(.E-1 to E-18 Dlnnerf Only) 402 DWowoy Norlb. Rc.lllltd. IN (Ac...o from .... lm) Ph. Z71-7373 Ho.n: Su: 11-t. M·Th 11-t::JO -~·U:lO:lQ_ 
Good throughout school year. If you buy any large sandwhich and 20 oz. drink, get a free large fry by showing your student ID. Not valid with any other coupons or discount. 
---1
,.., 
• 




Grand Opening of luneh at Alumni Senior Club. 

Regular Hours Wed·Sat 9·2. 
Cup night tonight. 
Michigan send off/pre-victory party. 


~-~-------­
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Thursday ACROSS 30 N.J. neighbor 55 To be, in France 31 Call 57 Sir, in Swahili
1 Cool; detached 
4:30 p.m. Workshop, "Writing Cover Letters and Resumes." 34 Lanny or Diana &111 has a cap 
6 Rhyme scheme 
Haggar College Center, Hoom 303. Sponsored by SMC 35 Net game 62 Wrigley Fld. 
10 See 19 Across
Counseling & Career Development. covering
38 Jewish month 14 Small: Comb. 

63 Famed fabulist form 40 Large dam in
6:30 p.m. Workshop, "Interview Preparation." Haggar Germany 64 Ethereal
15 Steamer

College Center, Hoom 303. Sponsored by SMC Counseling and 65 Bird food 
41 Lyric poem 16 Med.-school

Career Development. 
66 O'Neill's specialtysubject 44 Nether world: 

Job 26:6 17 On the go 

8:10 p.m. "Viva: A Showcase of Entertainment," Ariel, 
46"... --what

Hussian pop pianist. Washington Hall. Admission $4 per 10 Protagonist your country DOWN
student. Sponsored by Student Activities. 19 Enzo ---of the . .": J.F.K. Met 
1 Physicians' org. 
49 All or Michael 8:30p.m. & 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Lost Boys." Cushing 20 Reeds 2 Fleur-de--­
50 Playful, teasing 

Auditorium. Admission $2. 22 Play addendum talk 3 Fall mo. 24 SW South 
52 Trees of the 4 Hangnest Dakota region birch family 5 Proscribed 

27 Scram! 
53 Gland: Comb. 

LECTURES 6 Pined 
28 Consent form 7 Glorify 29 Rotten guys 54 Tarnish
Thursday a Tavern 90ne-celled 
6:45 p.m. Lecture, "Victor Higgins, An American Master," by organism 
John Shields, Snite curator of education. Snite Museum of Art. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Carpenter's or No admission. mason's paste 

..:.,:..+,::-r;;;-:=-! 11 Things similar in 
32TV sitcom 

7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Job Search Tactics." Room 303, Haggar certain respects 
College Center. Sponsored by SMC Counseling and Career 12 Lamour's wraps 33 Day or night preceder
Development. 
13 "Upon a hundred 

35 Actress thousand-": 
Hermione from EnglandYeats

MENU 
21 Upright 36 Elan =+::+.-:-Ei 23 Five of trumps 37 Barter
Notre Dame 
24 Michael 38 Mother-of-pearl Jackson album source 
Grilled Pork Chops -:-+=+:--+:-+:-:-1 25 Suit topper 39 More foppish Baked Cajun Cod -'::.+:+.'::..r.'+.::-1 26 Cato's 650 41 "--Clear Pasta Bar ..;:..J.;..:..J..::.J..:....:~ 29 Part of N.B. Day" 
Saint Mary's 
Southern Fried Chicken California Quiche Baked Lasagna Deli Bar 
SPELUNKER 
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 
NO. WHY?

!!J; 
Soi!NOS A TAD 
APOC.ALYPTIC., DOESN'T ll? 
I 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
• 
11'5 ll MIS PI?INT. 1115 SuppOSE: D To SR'f "Y£RR 
0~dl'fERED 
YouiJ/n ADULT." 
I 
J 
....

lfi~IIIDA\f & 
42 Follow 43 Apres printemps 44 Location of 
Naknek Lake 45 Starts 47 Famous sailor 48 Savvy one 
50 Ballerina's handrail 51 Expert s& Greek tee 58 Biblical king 59--de plume 60 Tropical timber tree 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, September 12, 1991 

Irish women lack kick in 0-0 tie with Dayton 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (1-0-1) played to an uninspired scoreless tie against the Dayton Lady Flyers (0-2-1) Tuesday afternoon at Baujan Field in Dayton, Ohio. 
"We played poorly," a disap­pointed Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "We were not focused and were not psycho­logically into the game." 
The 0-0 tie was not a result of a lack of scoring chances. Both teams had their scoring opportunities. Notre Dame took 20 shots and Dayton countered with 18. However, both squads were turned away each time by the steady performances of both goalies, Notre Dame's Michelle Lodyga and Dayton's Christine Medwig. 
"We have to start playing more as a team and with 100 percent intensity," Lodyga said, "I have to start the offensive counterattack more effectively." 
If the Irish were uninspired, Dayton was quite the opposite. They came out looking to avenge last year's disappointing 1-0 loss to the Irish, a game which the Lady Flyers thought they should have won. Also, they wanted to make up for their lackluster 0-2 season-opening road trip, on which they lost to SMU and Tulsa, 6-1 and 4­0, respectively 
"I consider this game a loss because we are a better team," Petrucelli added, "Dayton played harder and with more emotion than we did." 
The Irish are going to have to find the intensity they showed in their 2-0 home victory over Mercy-hurst last Saturday, but were lacking on Tuesday, very quickly because they are going to need it for this weekend's two-game road trip to Cincinnati. There they will face Cincinnati, ranked 22nd nationally and sixth in the Central Region, on Saturday. The Irish are ranked seventh in the region. Then, they will take on Vanderbilt on Sunday. 
Last season, the Irish fared poorly on their frrst road trip of the year, dropping consecutive decisions to Duke and UNC-Greensboro, 4-0 and 5-1, respectively. 
Petrucelli believes that winning on the road is extremely important aspect of a successful team. To do so, the Irish are going to have to play with a tremendous amount of intensity, which is something they did not do in their first trip away from Alumni Field. 

Belles volleyball breaks through 
Panthers' returner is not Ismail 
His name is Israel and he brings a resume of speed 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -His last name begins with I, his spe­cialty is dramatically altering games with long kick returns and big plays and his greatest asset is his s-p-e-e-d. 
Don't look now, but Pitt cornerbackkick returnerbig­play Specialist Steve Israel may be gaining on you. 
Aren't familiar with Israel's resume of returns? Just ask West Virginia and Southern Mississippi, because Israel has 

• just enjoyed two weeks of very happy returns against them. For a player whose very re­turn to college football was once in question, he's returned with a bang: -Playing his first game in nearly 11 months, Israel single­handedly broke open Pitt's 34-3 romp over rival West Virginia with a 26-yard interception re­turn and 73-yard touchdown return. Not bad for a player who participated in all of nine games in his rrrst three college seasons due to a variety of in­juries, including a blown-out knee. -He was even better in Pitt's 35-14 victory over Southern Miss, which spent most of the afternoon missing the opportu­nity to tackle him. Israel had an 81-yard interception return on Southern Miss' opening posses­sion, then added a 35-yard fumble return touchdown. He also had a 71-yard punt return touchdown called back by a penalty. "He was all over the field," Southern Mississippi receiver Greg Reed said. 
Mostly the end zone. But while the similarities be­tween Israel and a well-known 

Steve Israel 
former college player named 
Ismail are apparent, one is ad­
vised to never, ever use the 
word "Rocket" when Israel is 
around. 
Fast? Israel is fast to anger when he fmds him saddled with the same nickname as Ismail, who grew up in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., not far from Israel's home in Lawnside, N.J. Israel wants to be his own man, with his own identity -and, ultimately, his own nickname. 
"I'm not trying to be ignorant or anything, but I definitely don't like it when they call me Rocket Israel. We're not the same," Israel said. "We're like the same age, but he's 5-9, 5-10 and 170 pounds and is a re­ceiver and tailback, and I'm 5­11, 185 and a cornerback. He's Raghib, I'm Steve. We're not the same. 
"Rocket? I just don't like it." 

Israel is making a name for himself, rather than simply fmding his name on the injured list. Pitt's coaches have long known he possessed big-play skills and speed -he's been timed at 4.3 in the 40 -but had trouble merely getting him on the field. 
No wonder, as Pitt coach Paul 
Hackett said, "He's trying to 
condense a career into one sea­
son." 
"His contribution has been 
dramatic," Hackett said. "Whan 
makes you happy as a coach is 
you love to see this production 
from someone who is so totally 
committed as Steve. He's gotten 
where he's at because he's 
outworked everyone on the 
team. He's finally getting the 
chance to play up to his 
potential." 
"I just want to play a full 11­
game season because I've never 
done that," Israel said. ''I'm a 
real religious guy and I've kept 
the faith that it will happen. I 
pray every night that it will 
happen." 
Israel's contributions have been obvious. Coming off a 3-7­1 season that tied as it worst in the last 18 years, Pitt is 2-0 and ranked No. 24 and can match its entire 1990 victory total by beating Temple on Saturday. 
He doesn't play offense like Ismail did at Notre Dame, but Israel has never asked to play wide receiver or to jump in for a few plays at tailback. Like he says, he's not the Rocket, nor does he want to be. 
"The coaches tell me the kickoff return or the punt re­turn is the first play on offense, the chance to help the offense," Israel said. "That's why I was disappointed when they called back the (punt return) touch­down. 
"I could have helped the team. The offense had to go eight, 12 plays to score, and they could have been resting. It could have been just one play." 

By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team overcame their 0-5 slump by defeating North Park College in three games 15-4, 15-11, 15­11. 
"It was a very good team win," stated coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "It was the confidence builder that we needed, and everybody was able to play." 
In the first game of the match, the Belles worked together as a team. After taking a 4-0 lead, the Belles showed their consis­tency to win 15-4. The Belles apparently regained the confi­dence they lacked during their losing streak. 
Junior captain Karen Lorton led the team with five kills and five blocks while junior setter Michelle Martino contributed four blocks and four kills. 
"We played much better this game,"said Martino. "we were passing better and hitting well. The win could· have been easier, but we pulled it out and that's all that matters." 
Although Saint Mary's successfully completed 86% of the attempted digs against North Park, the defense was not flawless. 
"We are still not blocking ag­gressively," Schroeder-Biek said. "And, as in the past, "she continued, "we tend to lose fo­cus when we get behind. We've been battling that and it's good to see that we were able to pull it out." 
Martina's lawyer could be removed in palimony case 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) -Judy Nelson's lawyer in her palimony suit against Martina Navratilova should be disqualified from the case because he unjustly gained financial data, a lawyer testified Wednesday. 
The conduct of Jerry Loftin, 
Nelson's lawyer, was made an 
issue during the third day of a 
preliminary hearing in the 
lawsuit on whether he should 
be removed from the case. 

Nelson hired another lawyer Wednesday to act as a consultant on her case. That lawyer, whose name wasn't released, met late Wednesday with both women and with Navratilova's lawyer after court recessed for the day. Those talks ended with no comment from the parties. 
The hearing was scheduled to resume Thursday. 
The sides have been trying to reach an out-of-court settlement since Tuesday afternoon, but apparently reached stumbling blocks over non-financial matters. 
Navratilova, a nine-time Wimbledon singles champion, said through a spokesman that Loftin also was slowing attempts to settle the lawsuit. 
"That's baloney," Loftin said. "Of course not." 
Nelson contends Navratilova reneged on a 1986 property agreement, drafted by a paralegal. In it, Nelson was to get half of the estimated $5 million to $9 million earned during a seven-year relationship. 
"There is an obligation for Mr. Loftin to properly supervise a paralegal," said 
Steve Peterson, a former 
State Bar of Texas general 
counsel who was called by 
Mike McCurley, Navratilova's 
lawyer. 

"A lawyer should not be a 
witness, an advocate in a 
case," Peterson said, saying 
Loftin should also be 
disqualified because he is 
fighting a former client and 
improperly supervised an 
employee. 

"What we have is a lawyer 
hiding behind his paralegal." 
BeAno Sisemore, Loftin's 
paralegal, testified earlier 
Wednesday that she drew up 
the "non-marital cohabitation 
agreement" and that the 
tennis star knew she was not 
a lawyer. 

"Jerry Loftin is holding up his client's settlement to protect his fee and avoid disciplinary action -which is a clear conflict of interest," Navratilova said through publicist Linda Dozoretz. 
"I am still willing to listen to settlement offers from Judy Nelson, but not until Jerry Loftin disqualifies himself or gets disqualified and Judy Nelson acknowledges the invalidity of the non-marital cohabitation agreement," Navratilova said in a prepared statement. 
Gary DeShazo, another lawyer for the tennis player, said Loftin seeks 40 percent of any settlement Nelson receives in the lawsuit through a contingent fee. 
"We want him (Loftin) to kick in money. That's the sticking point," DeShazo said. "He needs to concede 
see MARTINA/page14 







