·-----~-:-~-----------------~-------------------------......-------~----------.. 

~~.~~~t 
05/:31/92. 
Zl ­' ) -'/ . .tJ. 
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS HESBUR6H LIBRARY 

• ·8·&·
---"1!1--­
1842-1992 
Saint Mary's Colleg~
SE SQUICENTfN N I AL 

NOTRE DAME IN 4~.55,_:. NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
-· 


VOL. XXIV NO. 20 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S _ 
Bush steps up warnings; 
t· 


no 'Son of Desert Storm' 
• $_)&1$1' 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Stepping up prepared to use military action to see his warning to Saddam Hussein, that he does comply." President Bush insisted Thursday that Bush said the United States would 
he had no plans for a "Son of Desert not be alone in military action, but, he 
Storm" operation but will use U.S. air said, "We'll have others with us." power if necessary to protect His stern warning came in language helicopters of U.N. weapons inspectors even sharper than he had used the day in Iraq. before when he said he was "fed up" 
"To allay the concerns of America, I with Saddam and would send war­would simply say we're not talking planes back to the Persian Gulf if about massive troop movements.... necessary to protect the U.N. What we are talking about, if required, inspectors. is accompanying helicopters with some Bush said that Saddam should realize air power. And we've got a lot of air from the Persian Gulf War last winter power there," he said. that "thanks to our technology and to 
Bush made the comments in an the ability of our pilots, that we can be interview with Hispanic journalists very specific as we apply this air from the Los Angeles area after a day power." of public appearances and remarks At the same time, Bush said he 
concentrated on domestic programs. wanted to assure the country that he He had railed at congressional was not considering a massive Democrats during stops at a mass mobilization. "That's not what we're transit constniction site in California talking about here," the President said. and a political fund-raiser in Oregon. The President said that Saddam had 
The President said he was trying to earlier miscalculated on America's use the news media to communicate willingness to use military force. "He with Saddam. The White House had no idea what was going to happen 
released a transcript of the Iraq to him." portion of the interview only a few "That's now Iristory," Bush added. hours after it took place, a departure "He knows what we can do. And so it is from the usual practice of withholding my gut feeling that he will do that transcripts until articles by the which he should have done long ago ­interviewing journalists have and that is comply with the letter of the appeared. United Nations resolutions." 
The President said he was sure that Then, Bush said he wanted to deliver 
• .. 
his ultimatum to Saddam to permit the a personal message to Saddam through 
U.N. Inspectors free access to his the news media: · ...............­country would be "joined by countries "I would just like to take this all around the world." opportunity to say to him ... he should Saddam "must comply," Bush comply. He should not miscalculate declared. again." 
''When a president makes a "I've never been more determined," statement like that, he ought not to do the President. said. "And he can it without being willing to back that interpret it any way he wants to." up," he said. Asked if he was imposing a new 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp "We don't need lots of troops and to deadline on Saddam, Bush said: "No, mobilize a whole 'Son of Desert Storm' no deadlines.... There's no deadline, operation. The way to diffuse it is for no lines in the sand. Just to say, hey, goLarger than life Saddam Hussein to do what the U.N. is ahead and do what you ought to have 
calling on him to do. One way is to done some time ago." 
T.A. Derek Chalfant, far left, helps his wood sculpting class build a giant rocking chair. The 

have him understand that if he doesn't,
chair is located in front of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. 

he is going to find that we are see BUSH I page 6 

~~?H~~TO~~~~!~~g~t~aflR~n~~g~n !l9~!~i~!:~uY~~t~could 
Democratic chairman of the dorsement of its conclusion on make that claim," Leahy said. Senate Judiciary Committee abortion. So far, however, no solid op­challenged abortion rights ac-Biden also rebuked Sen. Paul position has emerged against tivists Thursday when they said Simon, D-Ill., for saying that a Thomas' nomination. Sen. John Supreme Court nominee possible clue into Thomas' Chafee of Rhode Island, a mod­darence Thomas would vote to views on the subject was his at-erate Republican, became the consign American women to the tendance at a Fairfax, Va., latest senator to endorse perils of back-alley abortions. Episcopal church active in the Thomas's confirmation. Sen. J. 
Sen. Joseph Biden Jr. of anti-abortion movement. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, Delaware said the abortion-"I think that's absolutely, to-a moderate Democrat, said rights activists showed a tally completely irrelevant as a Wednesday he would vote to "failure of logic" in citing a matter of principle, and I also put Thomas on the high court. 1987 speech Thomas gave that think its irrelevant as a matter The panel could vote as early praised an anti-abortion article. of fact," Biden said, noting that as Thursday, with action by the 
Biden made the comment as he was one of three Roman full Senate the next week. the representatives of abortion-Catholics on the panel who In their testimony, Michel-rights groups urged the Senate support abortion rights. man, Faye Wattleton, the pres­to reject Thomas' nomination to Biden's comments were the ident of Planned Parenthood, be the nation's second black first indication that he did not and former Vermont Gov. Supreme Court Justice. agree with the argument of Madeleine Kunin said Thomas 
"The record shows that, if other Democrats that Thomas should not be allowed by sana­confirmed, Judge Thomas was disingenuous when he in-tors to duck questions on how would indeed vote to take away sisted that he had an open mind he would vote on abortion. this fundamental right -to on the issue of abortion. "It is Judge Thomas' silence take this nation back to the The credibility of Thomas' in-on this question that causes days when women had no al-sistence that he was neutral on such anxiety," said Kunin, a ternative but the back alleys for the subject and the attempts he Democrat. ..In a democracy, it is health care," said Kate has made to disavow earlier a sad day indeed, when silence Michelman, director of the Na-comments on other topics have assures victory." tiona) Abortion Rights Action · been an issue in the hearings, Members of the congressional League. which are scheduled to end Fri-Black Caucus urged the panel 
But Biden disagreed, saying, day. to ignore Thomas' race and re­..I did not fmd anywhere in the Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said ject his nomination. record on that issue where he Thomas gave an "incredible "What you have is a nominee evidenced extreme views." answer" by testifying that he who wants to destroy the bridge 
Thomas testified that his had never discussed the 1973 that brought him over troubled praise of the article was a Roe vs. Wade decision, which waters," said Rep. John Lewis, "throwaway line" intended to legalized abortion. D-Ga. and a veteran of the civil win support for his ideas on "He is probably the only see BIDEN I page 4 



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



An analogy for ND/SMC relations 
Allow me to close 

MacDraw and open 
Word just long enough to 
report an item of 
importance which didn't Brendan Regan 
make headlines among
the other football stories Graphic artist 
proceeding last week-
end's Michigan game. 
Sources close to the 

Irish team divulged that ------­
due to an unfortunate 
error there was insufficient· space to 
accomodate the entire football team and 
cheerleading squad on the trip to Ann Arbor. 
Much to their chagrin, several of the younger 
players were "overlooked" when the limited 
bus seats were being assigned. 
Understandably, these players felt what 

transpired was a gross miscarriage ofjustice. 
Mter all, it wasn't the cheerleading squad 
that established the football team as a 
national powerhouse; indeed, their presence 
at the game was, as always wholly 
incidental to the final outcome. ' 
The slighted players felt they deserved 

priority status over a group of outsiders who 
were only infringing upon their space. 
Incidentally, the cheerleaders were oblivious 
to these players' feelings, justifying their 
indifference on the grounds that the 
conditions were imposed by the higher-ups in 
the organization. 
Besides the aforementioned disgruntled players, much of the balance of the team would have actively preferred that the cheerleaders not be "in the way." Abundant complaints notwithstanding, the decision stood. . 
Q..K._~·tfme for me to come clean. The events described above didn't actually occur-at least not involving the parties I mentioned. A fictional account for illustrative purposes, yes; an unfounded, hypothetical situation, no. This scenario does in fact exist, right in our midst. I'm alluding, of course, to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's situation. 
The administrations can facilitate-even mandate-integration, but the reality is that unity doesn't exist. And it shouldn't. The amount that Saint Mary's has to offer Notre Dame is negligible compared to the privileges afforded Saint Mary's students by the University. 
In light of my football team/cheerleaders parallel, I ask you: which entity would cease to exist without the other? 
Still unconvlnced? Consider how many Saint Mary's students based their college decision at least in part on the Notre Dame factor. Now try to imagine the converse. (Numbers wouldn't be necessary here; common sense provides ample testimony.) 
Since the women of Saint Mary's are so dissatisfied with the status quo, I propose we end the Notre Dam~e.-Saint Mary's "family"­feud once and for all-by eliminating whatever supposed ties are so tenuously "bonding" the schools now. Let's recognize the dubious "codependence" as the mere co­existence that it is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer: 
Today's staff: PrOduction: 
News: Jeanne Blasi 
Frances Rivera Cristina Ortiz 
Julie Barett Kelly Lynch 
Illustrations: Jake Frost Sports: 

Dave Devine Jennifer Marten Lisa Schmitt Rich Szabo 

Accent: Shonda Wilson 

Graphics: 
Meredith McCullough

Ann-Marie Conrado Jeannie Shin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
fOR!CAST: 
Mostly sunny and very cool today with highs in the upper 50s. Sunny and warmer Saturday with highs in the middle to upper 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
Athens  81  64  
Atlanta  76  63  
Bellin  64  48  
<<<: ,:,::= ::::::::::.: ,,,1 Boston Chicago  82 56  56 40  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  62  50  
Denver  72  36  
Detrok  61  43  
\<'<{\{':::"{') {'j  Honolulu Houston  88 73  73 65  
Indianapolis  61  40  

London  68  54  
Los Angeles  87  66  
VJ\)ttt: =::::::::::::::::=::-:<:1  Madrid Miami Beach  93 87  63 78  
Moscow  55  37  
::,:::::-:,:,:,:,:-:,:t  NewYoiKNew Ofleans  8183  5774  
Pana  70  63  
Philade_,hia  83  57  
Rome  86  59  
St. Louis  60  43  
San Francisco  65  55  
Seattle  75  54  
South Bend  5 5  4 1  
Tckyo  79  70  
Washington. D.C  81  59  
. :·  . ::  ·:.  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
•NEW 
YOR~ Technicians who monitor an AT&T facility that shut down, bringing New York's airports to a standstill, were absent because they were at a class on a new alarm designed to prevent the very trouble that caused the outage, their union said Thursday. American Telephone & Telegraph Co. confirmed some of the technicians at the Manhattan call-switching center were at such a class during Tuesday's outage. Employees who normally track the conversion were in the class and others in the building apparently overlooked alarms AT&T said. The outage blocked millions of ca11s for about seven hours and resulted in a virtual shutdown of airports in the New York area when it knocked out an air-traffic communications system. 

•LINCOLN, 
Ne .-Ethanol promoters from 10 states who met here Thursday hope that the federal Clean Air Act will help revive an industry marked by plant failures and consumer skepticism. Members of the Governors' Ethanol Coalition said Congress and President Bush are placing more emphasis on using ethanol and other additive_s to hold down pollution. Ethanol, or ethyl alcohol, IS alcohol produced from grain. It has been used as a gasoline additive to produce cleaner burning fuels and to help conserve energy. 


OF INTEREST 
•Logan 
Center volunteers should meet in front of Holy Cross Hall (SMC) at 3:30 p.m. or at Pasquerilla West (ND) driveway at 3:45 p.m. today to go to Beacon Bowl. 

•campus 
musicians Nick Campanella, Chris Norborg and Brian Muller will perform today at 4 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. 

•Th~ 
Hispanic-American Organization will sponsor a speCial van for those who would like to attend mass in Spanish at St. Stepans. Vans will leave the main and Library circle at 8:50 a.m. on Sunday. Call 283-1867 or 283-4932 for more information. 

•A 
memorial Mass for Caroline Schippereit will be at Pasquerilla East on Sunday, Sept. 22 at 10 p.m. 

•women 
United for Justice and Peace will have an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. on Sept. 23 in the Center 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 19 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 213.40 .70"'1it
211.04 MILLION 
S&P COMPOSITE 387.56 .62

1lt 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,024.37 6.48
"1it' 
PRECIOUS METALS :::: 
GOLD f1

V" $.40 to $348.80 I oz. 
SILVER..-1.4t to $4.066/oz. 
•BERKELEY, Csllf.-Researc ers say human genes for "good cholesterol" transplanted into a type of mice prone to heart disease made the rodents highly resistant to the malady. The University of California at Berkeley study supports the theory that atherosclerosis, the disease that blocks the arteries of the heart with fatty deposits stems largely from imbalances between so-called good cholesterol and bad cholesterol in the blood, not simply from the total amount of cholesterol. Dr. Edward Rubin a medical doctor and molecular biologist who headed the research team at Lawrence Berkeley National Labora­tory, said it is the first direct evidence that high-density lipoproteins, the good form of cholesterol, actuall:rretard the growth of deposits that can clog arteries. 
INDIANA 

Man is on trial for tryina to kill a dog
•INDIANAPOLIS-A neighbor of the Indianapolis man accused of seriously injuring a dog by dragging it behind his truck testified Thursday that she heard him say he w~n~ed to ~et ~id of the dog. Roose, 32, is charged with cr!mmal m1schmf, a felony, and cruelty to an animal, a miSdemeanor. He is alleged to have dragged the mixed br~ed named Tramp, owned by Roose's next-door neighbors Cameron D. and Sally Wright, with his truck for more than three-quarters of a mile on May 3. 
for Social Concerns. 

•The 
Women's International League for peace and freedom has invited Prof. Joe Gatto to speak about peace, on Tuesday, Sept. 24, at 7 p.m. at the Colfax Cultural Center, 914 L.W.M. in South Bend. 

•~alnt 
Mary's Alumnae Career Exploration Program will have ~n information session Sept. 24 and Sept. 25 at 


7:30 p.m. m Stapleton lounge of LeMans Hall. 
IIThls year's Task Force is seeking students who have completed an Urban Plunge to join and attend a meeting on September 25 at 6:30 p.m. or Sept. 26 at 4:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
•Sign up for Wednesday Lunch Fast at the dining halls or call 283-4241 and sign up by leaving your student ID number. 
ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•ln1958: 
Civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. was seriously wounded at a New York City department store when an apparently deranged black woman stabbed him in the chest. 

• 
In 1976: Playboy magazine released an interview in whi~h Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter admitted he'd "looked on a lot of women with lust." 

• 
In 1978: John Vorster, prime minister of white-ruled South Africa since 1966, announced his resignation, saying he would seek the ceremonial position of president. 

• 
In 1QA~· ~r~n I l"''lln:::mi~ nf the llnitoti ~btoc: wnn tho ~old medal 1n spnngboard d1ving at the Summer Olympics 


1~ Seoul, South Korea: one day after he struck and injured h1s head on the board 1n the preliminary round. 
------------. 
Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer page3 
Mertz describes Buick techniques 

By COLLEEN CONLEY News Writer 

Buick Motor Division, realiz­ing the importance of customer service in a competitive car market, has turned to several innovative techniques to make their customers feel special. 
Edward Mertz, vice president of General Motors Corp., dis­cussed the merits of customer satisfaction and quality control at Saint Mary's yesterday in a lecture sponsored by the Amer­ican Marketing Association. 
Based on his work in the au­tomotive industry, Mertz said that "customer handling does need some work in some ar­eas," but maintained that cus­tomer service is "better in this country than any other in the 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp world," despite common per­
Edward Mertz, vice president of General Motors Corp. and a Notre ceptions that the U.S. lags be­
Dame alumnus, discussed the merits of customer satisfaction and hind the Japanese. 
quality control at Saint Mary's yesterday. Mertz, a Notre Dame alum­

nus, explained the specific mechanisms in place at Buick to achieve good rapport with customers. 
First, for each car sale, the 
dealer is responsible for track­
ing the customer with a follow-

Special to The Observer 

Violinist Carolyn Plummer, associate professor of music at the University of Notre Dame, and pianist William Cerny, pro­fessor of music, will present a faculty recital Sunday, Sept. 22 at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Au­ditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. · 
The concert is the concluding recital of a Mozart cycle of pi-





Faculty members present Mozart recital 
~ -~ el)al)i n ~ 
V ~'V 

ND/SMC FAVORITE NIGHT SPOT 
And...of course...the best 
live music in town 
Friday & Saturday 
Sept. 20-21 
10:00 pm 

up questionnaire three to six months after purchase. 
Intended to evaluate the cus­tomer's overall satisfaction with road performance and warranty coverage, the results are then sent to competing auto manufacturers. 
"We continually compare ourselves to others," said Mertz. Buick is now "ahead of Toyota, and right up there with Mercedes," he added. 
Other devices Buick uses in­clude its 1-800 assistance num­ber, market research and a new vehicle inspection and delivery process. ..A lot of it is just lis­tening ... asking what [the cus­tomers] like and don't like, and what we can do better," he said. "If we can get customers to talk to us, especially if they have a problem, we're much better off. We solicit complaints." 
Mertz attributed Buick's gains in the area of customer service to its policy of being an involved company instead of a removed one. 
He said that the vehicle in­spection method requires a sales person to spend several hours going over every opera­tional aspect of the car with its 
ano and violin sonatas com­memorating the 200th anniver­sary of the composer's death. Plummer and Cerny will per­form "Sonatas for the Piano and Violin" in G major, K. 301; F major, K. 376; E-flat major, K. 380 and A major, K. 526. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
In addition to her faculty ap­pointment, Plummer is violinist for both the resident Notre Dame String Trio and the Notre 
The Hottest College Rock Band in the South 
"VELCRO PYGMIES" from Louisville, KY 
2n-1121 
Georgetown Shopping Center . 52303 Emmons Rd. 
buyer before it leaves the deal­ership. 
Another key to success for Buick has been its establish­ment of basic goals for its salespeople. "The simpler your goals are, the easier it is for your people to absorb what they have to do." 
Mertz said that Buick has consolidated its p.rimary goals into three 'areas of emphasis': sell cars, satisfy the customer, and be market-driven. 
Looking to Buick's future plans for customer relations, Mertz said he anticipates con­tinual growth and improve­ment. "We're not where we need to be yet; we're still not at 100% customer satisfaction." 
To move towards such a stage, Mertz has called for staff meetings in which employees will spend hours reading the irate letters of customers with complaints. 
. Mertz linked success in cus­tomer service to good leader­ship, and explained that lead­ers should insist on excellence by expecting "other people to rise to their level." 
Dame Piano Quartet. She holds a bachelor's degree in music from Indiana University and a master's degree in violin performance from the New England Conservatory, where she was a student of Joseph Silverstein. 
From 1977 through 1986, she was assistant concertmaster of the Houston Symphony Orches­tra, which she joined in 1974. She was a frequent soloist with the symphony as well as an ac­tive recitalist and teacher throughout the area. 
In 1987 Plummer joined the acclaimed chamber ensemble Atlanta Virtuosi, which per­forms extensively in the United States, Europe and Mexico. This summer she served as guest concertmaster of the Grand Teton Music Festival and was a guest artist at the Steamboat Springs Chamber Music Festival in Colorado and the Great Lakes Festival at Notre Dame. She has also per­formed at the Aspen Music Fes­tival and the Atlanta Virtuosi Chamber Music Festival at Bates College. 
Cerny was a member of the faculty of the University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music for 13 years prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1972. He chaired Notre Dame's music department from 1972 to 1981. 
After completing his under­graduate and graduate studies at Yale, where he was Phi Beta Kappa and graduated magna cum laude, Cerny worked for five years as a professional ac­companist, touring throughout the U.S. with artists such as cellist Angna Enters and Columbia Artists' male concert quartet, "The Revelers." His professional work in New York City also included accompany­
ing numerous artists in Town Hall recitals. 
From 1963 on, Cerny held a dual professorship rank at Eastman, one in humanities and one in music literature. In 1968, he developed his "Explorations into Piano and Literature" for presentation to college and . university audiences throughout the country. An outgrowth of these concerts was his series of weekly radio programs broagcast for years via the 
National Public Radio network. 
page4 The Observer Friday, September 20, 1991 
I, 

Moscow seeks food aid from European Community 

i 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -A senior Soviet official on Thurs­day asked the European Com­munity to provide $7 billion in food aid over the next 10 years 
and said Moscow sought an­
l ) 
other $7.7 billion in aid from other leading industrial nations. EC officials said they would consider the request, but when
~ 
a similar, evidently smaller
t 
l 
order came in last week, EC Commission President Jacques Delors said Europe would be unable to fulfill all of it. 
Yuri Luzhkov, deputy chair­man of the Soviet Economic Management Committee, told 
the EC Commission that Soviet food production had dropped by between 10 percent and 30 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Dig it 

percent this year, according to a 
Ben Tomchak, Jim Hautemen and Jeff Reichanadter dig up the ground to put in piping in front of the 
commission official who spoke
Hessert Center for Aerospace Research. 

on condition of anonymity. 
leaders who supported confir­mation of Thomas. "The black




Thomas 
community is split," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo. "That's
continued from page 1 
the reality here." rights movement. 
"You have a nominee who has Julius Becton Jr., president of refused to answer your ques­Prairie View A & M University tions ... a nominee who has in Texas, said he knew Thomas tried to stonewall this commit­as someone who "sincerely tee," Lewis said. "What reasons wishes to employ his authority do you have, other than the fact as a civil servant for the bet­he grew up poor in Pin Point, terment of society." Ga., to confirm Clarence 
Thomas' nomination to the Sharon McPhail, president of Supreme Court?" the National Bar Association, said the black lawyers group Witnesses also included black was sharply split over the nom­academics and community ination. "Never before in my memory has an issue so trou-
Lower the numbers and raise the odds. 
Controlling your blood pressure can reduce your risk of heart disease. 

According to the commission official, Luzhkov asked the EC for $2.2 billion in food grants, $2.5 billion in credits for food purchases over the next three years and $2.5 billion in credits over the next five to 10 years. 
Moscow submitted a request to the EC for up to $7.25 billion in food aid on Sept. 11, but De­lors said at the time that Eu­rope could not meet the re­quest, and planned to ask the Group of Seven to help fill it. The group's members are the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
EC efforts to come up with an aid plan for the Soviets have been complicated by difficulties in evaluating the extent of shortages in the Soviet Union, as well as problems in arrang­ing for repayment of loans by the fragmented and debt-ridden country. 
Luzhkov said the Soviet Union has imported between $9 billion and $10 billion worth of food annually in recent years, the EC official said. 
The EC has already approved a $1.4 billion aid plan, includ­ing $303 million in food grants, $484 million in technical aid and $605 million in food cred­its. 
to eliminate a perceived threat to the political orthodoxy upon which their self-interest comfortably reposes," Woodson 

SINCE 1949 
said. 

Great Brands, Great SerVice, Great Prices, Rantala 
AREA·S LOW£51" PRICED P.A RJ;NTALS 
Mon -Thur L!.oh· 1 :::,uuth Bend 
'-" <l • 

11 -7 pm 
t . 

lf}f~f!•f11 Fri 11-6 pm lfJ:I=!i•I[J
&:'aAmencan Heart 

220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan
V Association 

SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
bled the organization," she said. 
Robert Woodson, president of the National Center for Neigh­borhood Enterprise, criticized four black law professors who had testified this week that Thomas' conservative views put him outside the civil rights mainstream. 
"They have discredited them­selves rather than Judge Thomas, by providing a de­plorable demonstration that the black elite will go to great ends 

The official said Luzhkov proposed a plan calling for $7 billion in EC grants and credits, with an additional $7.7 billion to come from the United States, Canada, Japan and individual European nations. 
The EC will gauge Soviet food needs and assemble an aid plan that could be in place before winter, the official said. But the EC needed "a lot more clarifi­cation" of the Soviet request, the official said. 


. 4!.~ ND-SMC ~~~~f, STUDENTS"~.....~ 19th Annual Program 1 
~~  ROME  
LONDON  June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  
Scotland, and France  Switzerland  

courses offerPri in 

ART BUSINESS Af\.10 ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, i 
SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
MEETING Monday Oct. 7 6:15pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza **Past student and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 


WHEN YOU JOIN US AND ENJOY THE LARGEST "TENT" GATE PARTY IN SOUTH BEND ITALIAN WAY! 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME TO COME SALUTE THE 56TH GAME OF NO vs MICHIGAN ST. FOOD*BEVERAGES*MUSIC *TV AND NO COVER CHARGE 

IStadium~­

;''The Italian Ristorante" 

SEPT. 20, FRIDAY: 12PM-MIDNIGHT SEPT, 21, SATURDAY: 10AM-MIDNIGHT 
IN THE OPEN, UNDER OUR TENT, BY THE PATIOS AND BOCCI BALL COURT-OR FOR FINE POST GAME DINING ­MAKE THIS SPARTANS VS FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL WEEKEND ONE TO REMEMBER! 
1412 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN (219) 232-4244 Regular Hours : 4 -11, Sunday 4 -9, Closed Monday 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Law School reflects on past and future roles 
By MARY MURPHY News Writer 
The relationship of religious convictions to law and govern­ment is a timeless debate that involves issues from Supreme Court decisions to the nation's involvement in war. 
The role of a religious law school in a secular society will be examined in "A Catholic Law School in America," a sympo­sium presented by the Law School on September 2 7. 
Three presentations will ex­plore this relationship and at the same time reflect on the past and future of the Law School. 
Walter Pratt, professor of law at Notre Dame will catalog the historical development of the Law School from a boarding school to one of the top 25 in­stitutions in the country. He will answer such questions as, "Why is the Law School in the original' charter of the University?" 
Victor Rosenblum, former president of the Association of American Law Schools and presently from Northwestern, will comment on Pratt's paper. Rosenblum offers a "unique perspective," according to Douglas Kmiec, NO professor of law, because he can place the University in the context of other American law schools. 
Kmiec will discuss the higher, natural law background of the Law School. 
"Natural law is the principle recognizing that there is good and bad regardless of what in­dividual laws promulgate," ac­cording to Kmiec. 
Kmiec will pay particular at­tention to the years 1924-1952. He believes they are "the zenith of the natural law period." 
At this time, the "curriculum was organized around jurisprudence and Notre Dame gained an international reputa­tion," Kmiec stated. 
Judge John Nunan, former Notre Dame Law School faculty member and recipient of the University's Laetere Medal in 1984, is the Robbins Professor of Law Emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley. Nunan will remark on Kmiec's presentation. According to Kmiec, he is the foremost authority on natural law and a possible nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The role of culturally diverse groups will be examined in pa­pers by two Notre Dame Law professors, Lucy Payne and Thomas Schaffer, as well as Professor Rudolfo Sandoval from the University of Texas at San Antonio. 
Payne will discuss the contri­butions of Protestants; Schaffer will discuss the role of Italian­Americans; and Sandoval will discuss the place of Mexican­Americans. 
Each paper will explore the role of nominally termed "outsiders," such as non­Catholics in a Catholic environ­ment or women in a male dom­inated environment. The au­thors will show the history of Notre Dame as seen through their eyes, and explain how the University has helped to ad­vance their lives. 
Harold Berman, faculty mem­ber at Emory and Harvard Universities, will speak about this presentation. Berman has written on American plurality and diversity and is a leading specialist in law and religion, according to Kmiec. 
The Notre Dame community, both past and present, is ex­pected to attend the sympo­sium. Alumni from around the country have responded as well as prominent members of the bench and bar. Judge Daniel Manyen, the son of former Law School Dean Manyen, is ex­pected to attend. Undergraduate and graduates are also welcome. 
The symposium will relive the history of the Law school with the creators of the past as well as the originators of the future. 







'' •• LOOKIN' FOR SOME ACTION? 

Friday, September 20 Men's Soccer vs. Michigan State 7:30 pm, Krause Stadiunt 
Sunday, September 22 Volleyball vs. Boston College 12:00 pm, JACC Arena 
Men's Soccer vs. Evansville 
2:00 pm, Alumni Field 

Speakers discuss art restoration 
Special to The Observer 
The preservation of art, books, paper and photographs, problems of deterioration and the maintenance of private col­lections is the focus of a Tuesday, Sept. 24 meeting of the Friends of the Library at the University of Notre Dame. 
"A Night to Preserve," at 7 

p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Special Collections room, will feature Sonja Jordan, assistant librarian and head of special collections and preservation; Charles Lamb, assistant direc­tor and associate archivist of the Notre Dame Archives; and Monica Radecki of Radecki Galleries for the presentation on special collections. 
Jordan will speak on books, papers and special documents. Lamb will give a special presentation on photograph preservation, drawing from the Notre Dame Archives collection of 19th century pictures from the early years of the University. Radecki will focus on the maintenance ofrme arts. 
All speakers will address the problems in their respective ar­eas of preservation and offer suggestions for private collec­tions. These topics will include problem recognition and using materials at home. 
The program, followed by a reception, is free and open to • jthe public. 
SECURITY BEAT MONDAY, SEPT. 16 
10:49 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported theft of his textbook from the South Dining Hall lobby. 
1:15 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his watch from his dorm room. 
3:45 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported he lost two gold rings at the South Dining Hall. 
4:01 p.m. A University em­ployee reported the theft of her 8­16 parking decal from her vehicle while it was parked in the B-16 parking lot. 
4:09 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the grounds at the comer of Juniper and Lake Roads. 
4:43 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his C-1 parking decal from his car while it was parked in the B-2 parking lot. 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 17 
2:58 a.m. Notre Dame Secu· ritytPolice issued a trespass letter to a suspicious suspect on University property. 
8:39 a.m. A Keenan Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his locked bicycle from a fence in front of his dorm. 
12:22 p.m. A University em­ployee reported the theft of her 8-1 parking decal from her unlocked car while it was parked in the 8-1 parking lot. 
12:45 p.m. A Notre Dame stu· dent reported the theft of his car stereo and damage to his car while it was parked in the C-1 parking lot. 
5:10p.m. A University employee reported he lost his watch in the JACC faculty locker 
room. 
WEDNESDAY,SEPT.18 
1:08 a.m. A Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police officer cited a South Bend resident for travelling 48 MPH in a 25 MPH zone on Juniper road. The suspect was then arrested for OWl after failing a chemical test for intoxication. 
12:18 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of a check from his dorm room. 
12:35 p.m. A Dillon Hall 
resident reported he lost his wallet on campus. 
4:13 p.m. A Notre Dame stu· dent reported the theft of his C-1 parking decal. 
7:55 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Notre Dame Fire responded to the report of an injured student at the JACC. The victim was transported to Saint Joseph's Emergency Room for treatment of a possible broken 
nose. 


page 6 The Observer Friday, September 20, 1991
l.: 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The CIA regularly intercepted con­versations between Congres­sional Democrats and officials of the leftist Sandinista Nicaraguan government during the 1980s, a former official of 
,, 
the spy agency testified Thurs­
\ day. At the same time, a group of House Republicans asked Speaker Thomas Foley, 0­Wash., for a formal investiga­tion of the matter, suggesting that laws or House ethics rules may have been violated by the Democrats involved. Alan Fiers Jr., a former CIA operative testifying in the con­firmation hearings of Robert Gates to be President Bush's CIA chief, confirmed the reports first published Sunday by the New York Times. Fiers said the intercepts led then-CIA Director William Casey to confront then-Rep. Michael Barnes, 0-Md. 
The meeting with Barnes was "a matter of counterintelli­gence, to make the point that we felt that there was a contact between a member of a con­
gressional staff and the Sandin­istas, that was inappropriate, and that ... information that 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Memorize your lines 
was inappropriate to be 
Rick Ebert, a NO senior, and Jacki Ryan, a SMC sophomore, 
transmitted to the Sandinistas 
perform a soap opera skit yesterday as part of the CBS college tour 
was in fact being transmitted," 
that made a stop at Notre Dame. 



Bush 
continued from page 1 
And, Bush said, "I mean this isn't just the United States. Just as the strength of Operation Desert Storm came from the fact that it had an international sanction, his compliance and demand for compliance comes not just from the United States, but from the Security Council of 
the U.N."  
Bush, midway through his  
three-day campaign-style swing  
through the West, criticized  
"congressional inaction" on his  
transportation bill at a con­ 
struction site for a new inter­ 
state highway spur near Los  
Angeles Airport. The spur will  
also include a bus and car pool  
lane and an elevated rail  
transit system in the median  
strip.  
Bush said the project on Los  
Angeles' Interstate-l 05  
"dramatizes the federal, state  
and local partnership at its  
best." He said his languishing  
transportation bill would en­ 
courage more such joint ven­ 
tures.  
Although the federal govern­ 
ment is paying for most of the  
$2.03 billion cost of building  
the highway spur, state and lo­ 
cal governments are paying the  
$886 million tab for the "Green  
Line" mass transit rail project.  
Although the Senate has  
passed a transportation bill  
similar to Bush's, he accused  
House members of loading its  
version of the legislation with  
pork-barrel projects for their  
own districts.  
Bush continued his attacks on  
Democrats in remarks pre­ 
pared for a fundraising dinner  
for California Republican Sen.  
John Seymour. He said that  
even in times of "tremendous  
change" in the world,  
Democrats who control  
Congress refuse to change with  
! 'I  the times.  
I I  "The party in charge tn  
l !{ J  Congress may not see that Americans want action but the Republican party does," Bush  
said.  

Thanks for your support! Don't count us out • we're getting faster 

by the day. 

271-1177 
Papa John's Prediction: 
Notre Dame 48 Michigan St 16 

F-Sat 11 :00 · 
Fiers said he believed the face-off with Barnes came be­cause Fiers had compla-ined loudly after seeing reports of the intercepts. 
A senior congressional source, speaking only on condi­tion of anonymity, said conver­sations also had been picked up between Sandinista officials and former Rep. Jim Wright, then the House speaker, and Rep. David Bonior, D-Mich., now the No. 3 leadership official in the House. 
The conversations included talks with Carlos Tunnerman, the Nicaraguan ambassador to Washington, and with Paul Re­ichler, a Washington attorney for the Sandinistas, the sources said. 
During much of that period, a pitched struggle was being waged between congressional Democrats and the Reagan administration for control of Central America policy. There were regular battles on Capitol Hill over funding for the anti­Sandinista Contra rebels. 
Fiers said he regarded the contacts as "outrageous," and others at the time believed the activity by Democrats may have been illegal under the Logan Act, which bars American citi­zens from conducting private diplomacy with foreign coun­tries. 
But Bonior issued a statement 
The Department Of Music Presents  
Carolyn PIummer and William Cerny 
f\ .<(  In the final concert of their series of Mozart Violin  
•.. .  and Piano Sonatas  

Sunday, September 22, 1991, 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
(F@@If[ID~[S[S ~~~~~00@ [};1© rwrru® ~ 
FRIDAY: 9 pm-2 am SATURDAY: 1/2 HOUR AFTER GAME· 2 am 
THE PLACE TO BE TO CELEBRATE THE IRISH VICTORY! 
I , CIA monitored 1980s conversations between Congress and Sandinistas 
late Thursday calling it "outrageous that these hard­liners who violated the law, sold arms to the Ayatollah and lied to the American people should suggest that our efforts to bring democracy to Nicaragua were in any way inappropriate." 
Bonior angrily denounced those who directed the Iran­Contra operation as "shredders of our Constitution" who "worked insidiously, violently and unconstitutionally" while congressional opponents of the policy worked publicly. 
Some of those now being charged with withholding in­formation from Congress about the Iran-Contra affair, including Fiers, are now citing the contacts by congressional offi­cials as a reason for their reti­cence. 
Barnes told the Times that he felt the Casey conversation had been intended to pressure him into backing off his opposition to the Contras. 
"It may have been construed that way," Fiers said. "Bill Casey wasn't the most articu­late person." 
Committee Chairman David Boren, 0-0kla., said the Intelli­gence Committee has asked the CIA for any information it has, and whether there exist any dossiers on members of Congress. 
and get Capitol Hill moving on our domestic agenda." 
Earlier, at the political fundraiser in Portland, Bush complained that 197 days have passed since he challenged Congress last March in a Gulf War victory address to pass his transportation and crime bills in 100 days. 
"Almost twice that time has elapsed and we still do not have those bills," Bush said. "It's clear that the Democrats have 
Fiers said. 

no desire to help us advance our domestic agenda. Their al­ternative is not a domestic agenda. It's a political one to block our agenda." 
Thirty people were arrested in protests over a variety of is­sues at Portland, and police used pepper gas to control the crowd. 
The interview represented a second day of sharp switching of the White House spotlight Carefully laid White House ef­forts on Wednesday to spotlight environmental issues were blown away when Bush issued a sharp new warning and con­demnation of Saddam during a vic;;it. to thP l.rHnrJ C:tnvon 
On Thursday, in Los Angeles, Bush was asked at one point by reporters about Iraq's accusa­tion that he was using the dis­pute over U.N. helicopter flights as a pretext for a new U.S.-led mil it.H rv HftH~k 



ANC, lnkatha blame others for Natal killings 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The rival African National Congress and lnkatha Freedom Party blamed each other Thursday for two clashes in Natal province that killed six people. Two other people died in townships near Johannes­burg. 
Leaders of the ANC and Inkatha, the two largest black opposition groups, and the white-led government signed a peace pact Saturday that set codes of conduct for political parties and security forces. 
It was an unprecedented agreement between the nation's three major political players, and was heralded as a possible first step toward multiparty talks on a new constitution to end white minority rule. 
But at least 35 people have died in township violence since the signing, increasing to more than 150 the number killed in a series of attacks and clashes that erupted Sept. 8. 
Attacks on commuter trains 

MG"A/\1\VI-ll~-~... 
where else can you go dancing, visit the casino, or have dinner with friends? 
··································~ 
...IN THE NITE CLUB 
SAVE $2.00 with this coupon for admission into the Nite Club between 7to 9 PM Tues-Sat 
ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
•.•••••••••••••..................•~ 
····························••·•••• 
...IN THE GRILL 
FREE APPETIZER with this coupon when you order 2dinner entrees 4pm to close Man-Sat 
ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
...•............•..............•••~ 

MEAMVUILE... 
2.2.2 GOUTU MICUIGAN GOUTU 5"Nl), IN!)IANA 2J, 2.34 52.00 
between Johannesburg and Soweto township Thursday evening left one man dead and at least one wounded, police Col. Jac de Vries said. He also said three officers fired when attacked by men with clubs and sticks on a crowded train car, but no one was injured. 
An Inkatha spokesman, how­ever, told the South African Press Association an unknown number of passengers were killed or injured when police shot at Inkatha supporters on a Soweto-bound train. 
A separate police report said five people were hurt when thrown from another train traveling from Johannesburg. 
Police said a man also was shot to death in Daveyton township near Johannesburg. 
They said attackers fired on a minibus carrying Inkatha sup­porters Wednesday night, killing three people and wound­ing seven. In a second attack, three ANC supporters were killed and two houses burned in Natal, police said. 
ANC spokesman Sifiso Nk­abinde said the minibus attack probably was in revenge for previous harassment of ANC supporters by occupants of the vehicle. 
Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer page 7 

Call the Play 
Chris Cronk, a junior from Grace Hall, smiles as he calls the play in his football ucoverage" for the CBS College Tour program. 


Soviets cut arms shipments to Yugoslavia 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Union has stopped most arms shipments to Yugoslavia, but stopped short of supporting a European Community arms embargo, Tass reported Thursday. 
"We proceed from the as­sumption that sending arma­ments to Yugoslavia will further 

David Barnard '91 (NO) 

BAXTER 
COME JOIN OUR TEAM Mary Kay (Fanning) Ladone '88 (NO) 
Mary Ann Cenedella '91 (NO) Lou Mayle '88 (NO) 
Scott Esposito '89 (ND) Jim Fitzgerald '91 (NO) Ursula Garzia '91 (SMC) Simon Herbert '91 (NO) 
Kathy (Baker) Miller '88 (ND) 


worsen the situation in the now holds the rotating chair­country, on the Balkan penin­manship of the 12-nation Eu­sula and the Continent in gen­ropean Community, which im­eral," Tass quoted a Foreign posed an arms embargo on Yu­Ministry statement as saying. goslavia in July. 
"It is known that a number of The Kremlin earlier asked countries have put an embargo Yugoslavia's government to end on arms delivered to Yu­the fighting there, saying it was goslavia. Although the Soviet undermining the region and Union did not formally join Europe as a whole. them, it practically stopped such deliveries to Yugoslavia," Prior to last month's coup and the statement said. the shakeup of the Soviet 
The statement was delivered security forces, the Soviet mili­to a Dutch government official tary was seen as supporting the in Moscow. The Netherlands Yugoslav federal army. 


'•8RI1liANr TIIRilliRf'' 
-PPter Travers. ROLLING STONE 
''THIBISJFilM OfTHI YIARI" 
-P•I•r Rain•r. LOS ANGELES TIMES 
Cinema at the Snlte 
Frida and Saturda 7:15,9:45 

Amy Raczkowski '91 (ND) John Souter '88 (NO) Dana Tognl '89 (ND) 
Scott Miller '90 (NO) Jill Tomko '89 (SMC) Jim Post '89 (NO) Guy Welsmantel '90 (ND) 
Jennifer Racine '91 (SMC) Dan Walsh '89 (NO) 
We have careers in: Accounting/Finance, Sales/Marketing, Operations and Information Systems. For more lnfonnation please attend one of the following events. Don't forget to sign up for interviews through Career & Placement. 
* 
career Fair Sponsered by Joint Engineering Council & Society of Women Engineers Wednesday, September 25, 11 :00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 

* 
Meet Baxter Night Sponsered by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Monday, October 28,7:00.9:00 p.m. 


-""""'"'______­
--------------------------------------------------~ 


·1
. )i 
• i 

THE ANNIVERSARY WE CELEBRATE 
September 14, 1841 
~NS·-------------------------------------------------­
This day is sacred to the memory of the Congregation of Holy Cross missionaries who were the first to begin our apostolic work on this continent. 
Even if the story of their physical journey can be briefly circumscribed, the spiritual story which underlies it cannot be so easily told. It is ultimately a 
story that speaks of courage, generosity and trust, of strong belief in the Providence of God and of human response to divine grace. 
The small band of seven sailed from LeHavre on the S.S. Iowa and docked in New York 36 days later, on September 13, 1841. They were welcomed by a Samuel Beyerly, a recent convert to Catholicism, who was of great help and assistance to them. 
On the following day, September 14, they gathered to offer the first Mass celebrated by a Holy Cross religious in the United States. The place of worship was in St. Peter's Church on Barclay Street, in New York City, and the feast was the Exaltation of the Holy Cross. 
These seven Holy Cross religious had been sent by Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation, at the request of Celestin de Ia Hailandiere, 
Bishop of Vincennes, Indiana. The Bishop had visited France in 1839 and asked Father M;reau for Brothers who would teach the Catholic children 
in the scattered communities of this vast, almost frontier, diocese. Moreau agreed but had no one to send just then. 
Over the next two years the requests became insistent, almost pleading, and even though he was short on personnel and the congregation at its 
most vulnerable point of growth, Father Moreau finally agreed. He chose six Brothers and one priest for the work. A departure ceremony was held for them in Le Mans on August 6, 1841. Since Bishop de Ia Hailandiere was offering nothing (not even travel expenses), they took with them everything they could, offerings from friends of the Congregation in Le Mans. (The bishop had promised in 1839 to reimburse travel expenses but 
he didn't have the money in 1841 when presented with the bill.) They travelled steerage but were allowed a small space (10' x 20') for privacy. 
Even though they were all members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the seven had come to their missionary journey from different backgrounds. Brother Vincent had begun religious life in a society called the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded in 1820 by Canon James Dujarie, parish priest of Ruille-sur-Loin, in the diocese of Le Mans. When Canon Dujarie retired in 1835, Bishop Bouvier of Le Mans gave the care of the Brothers to another of his diocesan priests, Father Basil Moreau. That same year, Father Moreau had founded a society of Auxiliary Priests of Le Mans. Now that he found himself the common head of two groups, he conceived the idea of a religious congregation which would eventually include Sisters. But for now, the union of the two societies, priests and brothers, took place in 1837, and the new group was known as the Congregation of Holy Cross. The name had no direct or intentional relation to the Cross of Jesus. Sainte-Croix was simply the name of a suburb of Le Mans where the new group had its center. It was for this reason that its members became known as "Les Peres et les Freres de Sainte-Croix." The name is correctly preserved in the Latin Congregalio a Sancia Cruce (C.S.C.), where an ablative of place instead of a genitive case indicates the local nature of the name. 
~THEY~----------------------------------------------­
Father Edward Sorin was the person chosen by Moreau to lead the first group of Holy Cross to the United States. A former diocesan priest, he had made his vows in the new Congregation only a year before departure. He was 27. 
Brother Vincent (John Pleau) had been one of the first Brothers to join Canon Dujarie and the brothers of St. Joseph in 1821. Vincent was a teacher and he had come to America to take charge of the formation of new Brothers. He was 44. 
Brother Joachim (William Michael Andre) was a tailor. He was 32, and died three years after his arrival in the United states. 
Brother Lawrence (John Menage) was a farmer. He was one of three whose skills Moreau saw as necessary for the survival of the little colony of Holy Cross. He was 26. 
Brother Marie (Rene Patois) was a carpenter and a builder by trade. He later changed his name to Francis Xavier. He was 20 when he arrived. 
There were also two Brother novices who were to be teachers. Brother Gatien (Urbain Monsimer) was 15 and Brother Anselm (Peter Caillot) was 16. They were thought young enough to learn English rapidly so that they could begin to teach immediately. Brother Anselm died four years after arrival at the age of 20, and Brother Gatien was sent to California to the gold rush in 1850. He left the Congregation from there and returned to France. 
THE JOURNEY TO THE MIDWEST_____________________________ 
The sojourn of the Holy Cross Religious in New York lasted only three days. By September 16, they were aboard a steamship on its way up the Hudson. They entered the Erie Canal which took them to Buffalo by horse-drawn barge. Crossing Lake Erie to Toledo, they entered another canal which stopped at the town of Napoleon. There a choice had to be made about the way forward to Vincennes: a forest route or a more perilous river route. They chose to go through the forest and arrived at Vincennes on October 20 at nine o'clock in the morning. They were welcomed in the cathedral with great jubilation. 
Bishop de Ia Hailandiere gave Sorin his choice of two farms for the group's headquarters. He chose St. Peter's, about thirty miles east of Vincennes. The buildings were old but habitable, and there was a little chapel built of wood. It was here that the seven spent their first severe winter. 
~DBSnNATION____________________________________ 
Even though a school was opened and a Novitiate for brothers, with attendant success, the stay of the Holy Cross religious at St. Peter's lasted no longer than a year. In 1842, the Bishop offered them a distant station at the northern extremity of Indiana. The Bishop wrote to Moreau that despite the distance from Vincennes and the difficulty of transferring the Brothers' novitiate, the college which was envisioned would find there special ad­vantages for its development. He added that his own opinion and that of his priests was that the college could not fall to meet with great success. 
Father Sorin accepted this proposal. The site of the proposed college was a large tract of land situated in St. Joseph County, near the St. Joseph River, a short distance from South Bend. When he saw it, Sorin named it, Notre Dame du Lac. 
On the evening of November 26, 1842, Father Sorin arrived at Notre Dame du Lac, bringing with him seven of the most industrious brothers: these 
were Marie, Gatien, Patrick, William, Basil, Peter and Francis. Of these seven, Basil, Peter, William and Patrick were Irish-born. Francis had been born in Alsace, France. In March of the following year they were joined by the Brothers who had remained at St. Peter's and at the school in Vincen­nes. 
1843 saw the arrival of additional personnel from Le Mans, including the first four Sisters (Marianltes) of Holy Cross who were awaited with great eagerness. They were Mary of the Heart of Jesus, Mary of Calvary, Mary of Bethlehem, and Mary of Nazareth. 
For the moment, all the elements of the vision for Holy Cross in the Americas were In place. 
+Written by: Bartley MacPhaidin, C.S.C. +September 14, 1991 (St. Peter's Church, New York) 

SHARE OUR TRADmON -SHAPE OUR FUTURE Congregation al Holy Cross 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Vocation Director 8ox541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-6385 
~· 


I., 
Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer page9 



Iranian President Rafsanjani faces internal opposition 




A Business Advisory Council Colloquium on "The Challenge of Education" 
-Friday, September 20, 1991, Center for Continuing Education, 
Main Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
8:50 a.m. -9:40a.m.: The Role ofBusiness Schools 10:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m.: The Role ofthe Private Sector Dean Tom Keller, Duke University, Fuqua School ofBusiness Robert L. Dilenschneider, President and Chief Executive Dean Jack Keane, University ofNotre Dame, College of Officer, Hill and Knowlton, Inc. 
Business Administration J. Douglas Holladay, President, One-To-One Foundation John P. Brogan, Chairman, Brogan Company 
1:30 p.m.-2:45p.m.: The Role ofthe Public Sector Senator Bill Bradley (D., NJ) "America's Challenge in the Post-Communist World." 


The College of Business Administration 
In Celebration of The University's Sesquicentennial and the 70th Anniversary of the College Invites You to Attend 
Cou .EC;..:u: Bt •si~Ess AD!\IINISTRA no:-­UNIVERSITY oF NoTRE [)AI\IE 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Presi­dent Hashemi Rafsanjani is facing increasing unrest over his failure to revive Iran's economy, and his radical rivals are exploiting the discontent. 
A recent spate of mysterious fires in the bazaars in Tehran and other cities are widely seen as the work of Rafsanjani's po­litical foes who want to sabo­tage his efforts to loosen state control of the economy and end Iran's isolation. 
..The bazaar is the anchor of Rafsanjani's economic policies," said Reza Emami, a carpet dealer in the labyrinthine commercial district. "If we're shaken, he's shaken." 
One source close to the intel­ligence service investigating the Tehran fires said there is evi­dence that most were the work of arsonists. He spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
During the 1978-79 Islamic revolution, the fate of the late Ayatollah Khomeini's struggle hung in the balance until the bazaaris, the wealthy merchant class, called a strike to back him. 
Since Khomeini's death from cancer in June 1989, and his own election as president a few weeks later, Rafsanjani has been building bridges and try­ing to show that the excesses of the Islamic revolution are over. 
Arrayed against him is a loose coalition of anti-Western radicals and fundamentalists, led by former interior minister Ali Akbar Mohtasheini. They believe that allowing Western multinationals back into Iran weakens the revolution and be­trays Khomeini's teachings. 
Mohammad Eftekhari, a gold merchant in the Tehran bazaar, said a group calling itself the "Hungry Muslim Youth" had claimed responsibility for the fires in posters that were quickly torn down by security forces. 
"Theat's a clear message to the government about who's behind the frres and what tlfey want," he said. 
The fires are only one mani­festation of growing unrest. Demonstrators have marched 
through Tehran and other cities with their pockets turned inside out to protest the economic hardship hitting most of Iran's 55 million people, witnesses said. 
Opposition sources reported that some 10,000 people staged such a protest in the north­western city of Tabriz, capital of East Azerbaijan province, earlier this month. Several were reported killed when Revolu­tionary Guards moved in . 
Women have taken to the streets without the scarves and head-to-toe robes required by Islamic law. They are protesting religious restrictions, which Rafsanjani wants to ease but the radicals want to maintain. 
In one such protest in the southern city of Isfahan, Per­sia's ancient capital, hundreds of men intervened when Revolutionary Guards began arresting the women, witnesses reported. 
In the Baqerabad quarter in Tehran's southern slums, over­crowded by large numbers of destitute country folk seeking work, rioters set 13 municipal vehicles on fire when officials tore down squatters' hovels. 
Rafsanjani's drive centers on opening up the economy, which was for more than a decade battered by war, internal upheaval and disastrous mis­management by Islamic zealots with impeccable revolutionary credentials but few administra­tive skills. 
To do that, he needs massive investment from the West. 
One issue that stands in the way of major Western invest­ment is the continued detention of Western hostages in Lebanon by pro-Iranian Shiite Muslim fundamentalists. 
The Iranian leader has re­peatedly expressed his desire to help solve the hostage crisis and could gain money and increased trade from the West if Iran visibly helps to free the hostages. 
To lure the big money, he has to show that Iran is no longer the outlaw state it became when Khomeini toppled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and declared a holy war on the West. 
Rafsanjani's Cabinet of tech­nocrats, many of them Western­educated, are battling to carry out a $400 billion five-year development plan funded in part, for the first time since 1979, by foreign loans. 
Canada has just agreed to ex­tend $1 billion in credit. Euro­pean countries are pitching in too, hoping to grab a slice of the $60 billion earmarked for reconstruction following the end of the 1980-88 war with Iraq. 
But with subsidies on food and other essentials ended, the poor are finding things tougher by the day while the bazaaris and the nation's elite are getting fatter. 
Prices of most commodities have gone through the roof. Inflation runs at around 30 percent. Unemployment is unof­ficially estimated to be at least 30· percent, while the popula­tion is growing at a rate of 3.4 percent a year. 
Diplomats believe the protests could intensify ahead of parliamentary elections early next year. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, September 20, 1991 
--A.-=Y~ . ----­
--Ih"e 0-bse_:-r'\~er------­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertl.tng Manager ••..•.Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor..•.•.••••........Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •...•..• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••••••.••.David Oieteman Production Manager •••••••••••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor•••••.•.••••••.•••..John O"Brien Systems Manager •.•••••••••••..•Mark Sloan Photo Editor •......... .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director •.••.••••.•••.•••....Dan Shinnick Saine Mary's Edltor •..••...••.•Emily Willen Controller.•••..•••.•..•....•••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETtERS TO THE EDITOR 
t 
I l' POW/MIA Awareness Events 
;( 
'}I Dear Editor, 
This week, the Benjamin D. 
! Foulois Squadron of Arnold Air Society, a service organization within AFROTC, is sponsoring a POW/MIA Awareness Week in hopes of increasing public awareness of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community. 
I, Over 2,000 Americans are 
l' •' missing or unaccounted for in Southeast Asia because of the Vietnam War. Although we have no absolute evidence that Americans continue to be held prisoners, more than 150 re­
·' 
'i ported sightings of Americans are under investigation. 
It is not an issue reserved only for politicians, grieving family members, or the military, but more importantly it is a humanitarian issue. 
All Americans have the common goal to seek freedom for any prisoner of war and justice for all the families who have worked to resolve the fate of our POWS and MIAS. 
The thoughts of a sister of Navy Lieutenant Commander James Mills, one of the missing, are a reflection of what American hopes for: "Death you can get over. Uncertainty is a pain you can never get over. An 
\ end to uncertainty is what we Jj 
-~ 
-~ 
DOONESBURY 
accounting we can obtain." 
The week opened with spe­cial intentions said at Sunday mass on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as Sacred Heart Parish and the Church of Loretto. A POW/MIA Memorial Mass at Sacred Heart Crypt celebrated by Father Warner was held on Monday evening to remind those in at­tendance of the sacrifices made by those who have given their lives or have yet to return. 
Tonight marks the close of the selling of POW/MIA bracelets in the dining halls. A POW/MIA Tri-Military Flag Retreat Ceremony will take place on Friday at 4:30 pm. Lt Col Dennis Krembel, a 1974 Notre Dame graduate who fought in Desert Storm, will be the gue_st speaker. The Colors, as well as the dark POW/MIA "You Are Not Forgotten" flag will be retired-at this time. 
The week will conclude with a moment of silence after the Colors and POW/MIA flag have been raised before the Michigan State game. 
Ellen Clerznlak C/Capt, AFROTC Arnold Air Society Squadron Commander 




Voices of Faith snubbed at Mass 
Dear Editor: 
As a Notre Dame senior, I am glad to say that I have had many wonderful experiences here over the past three years. My academic career has been fulfilling as well as my extra­curricular and spiritual life. Part of the reason I have had such a wonderful spiritual life is due to my participation in the No,re Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble. 
Upon returning to Notre Dame this fall,l was thrilled with the prospect of having a memorable senior year as part of the Sesquicentennial gradu­ating class. I was even more thrilled upon discovering that Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble would be one of the participants in the Sesquicentennial Year Opening Mass. 
Much to my dismay, my hopes of being a part of this grand event were dashed when I learned that the Voices of Faith were scheduled to sing at 4:40. Mass was to begin at 5:00. Contrary to what our directors were told, we sang before mass not at the beginning of mass along with the other choirs. (There is a difference between before and beginning.) In a sense, the powers that be did not intend to include the Voices of Faith in the service. It seems we were asked to sing under false pretenses. 
At 4:40, Voices of Faith musi­cians began the music, and the choir sang as the congregation shuffled in. We sang for the glory of the Lord as chairs squeaked and people searched for their seats chatting amongst themselves. Amidst all the confusion, I wonder if anyone heard the messages we were trying to impart. (Jesus is real. There's not a friend like Jesus.) 
In fact, I am quite sure many people found it difficult to pay attention to our director with such commotion going on all around. As one of Notre Dame's spiritual organizations, our goal is to bring the message of the Lord to others through music and not to provide entertainment. 
Upon reflection, I felt that I and my fellow choir members were not regarded as worthy of being part of this grand mass by those instrumental in its planning. Certainly the Glee Club, Liturgical Choir, Chorale, Women' s Choir, and Folk Choir were worthy to be included. Each of these groups sang dur­ing the service. In fact the Glee Club, not a religiously oriented organization, began singing promptly at 5:00 (the time at which mass was scheduled to open). 
I feel it was inconsiderate of the planners to use the Voices of Faith as "filler music" to pass the time as the congregation found their ~eats. Perhaps the planners did not know that it is commonplace to have an orchestra play as people take their seats before an event. The planners did not consider that perhaps some people arriving for mass at 5:00 and not 4:40 would have appreciated hearing the Voices of Faith. 
After singing, I exited the JACC at 5:00 as mass started, puzzled at why I was asked to come and sing. I had originally planned to attend the mass even though I am not Catholic. However, after being used as the"pre-show" entertainment I felt that my presence was of no importance and did not feel comfortable staying. Not only were my feelings hurt, but the bitterness I felt did not coincide with the prayerful atmosphere that masses usually evoke. It was best that I leave. 
I hope that the Sesquicen­tennial Year Opening Mass was a wonderful and spiritually moving experience for all who attended. It was not for me. For now I can only hope that coming events celebrating Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial year are more carefully planned to truly include all of the Notre Dame community. 
Sheri D. Barker Lewis Hall Sept. 17, 1991 


Letter about apathy made false generalizations 
Dear Editor,  Their editorial lacked any real  atmosphere  here  is  not  
The authors of the recent  support with the exception of a  stimulating enough to  their  
article  in  The  Observer  weak reference to Iraq and  standards, I suggest they seek  
concerning Notre Dame apathy  mention of a few already well­ elsewhere for such stimulation.  
for some reason felt it was their  known school policies.  ..,  
right and duty to make gross  Kevin Cammarata  
generalizations  about  the  If these "intellectuals" feel  Keenan Hall  
student body of Notre Dame.  the  social  and  political  Sept. 12, 1991  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

'My drive in life. is from this horrible fear of being mediocre.' 
Madonna 

Don't be afraid, submit to: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND,IN 46556 

I 
l
J 



Viewpoint
Friday, September 20, 1991 page 11 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bold tactics needed to 
. NO community ignorant, apathetic 

obtain co-ed housing 
Dear Editor, The possibility exists that Mr. rights and SUFR need to be a Attention, Notre Dame, Please King was attempting at a priority in our dealing with the
Dear Editor: Second, and more impor­
open your eyes. humorous opening to his University. Such issues centerOnce again the inevitable bat­tantly, if this boycott were pro­I have debated and postponed otherwise insightful essay, but on the lives of all the students,tle cry has been sounded to res­ceeded by press releases, writing this letter for quite that becomes just another ex­not just those directly involved.
cue Notre Dame from the cruel countless millions of people some time now. But after ample of the ignorance thriving But we must not limit our ac­injustice of single-sex dormito­would be enlightened about contemplating on the insightful at Notre Dame. When such tions to only university issues. 
ries. And once again there will this most egregious letter by Mr. Smith and Mr. statements can be made in jest Only four years of our livesprobably be articles in the vari­predicament. Those with the Goodwin, an already blazing without any public outcry, there will be spent at Notre Dame.
ous student publications calling power would not be too thrilled fire became rekindled within simply is something missing Over 75 percent of our lives will upon the University to establish about the television camera me. A fire concerning the from the consciousness of this be in the outside world. Yes,co-ed housing. And once again slowly panning across the growing apathy and political university. reality will crash down on thoselittle or nothing will be done empty bleachers and then ignorance on this campus. I am It is this missing ideal within of you who decide to remainabout the situation. cutting to throngs of students not trying to throw "political our student body that Mr. Smith ignorant, remain apathetic. We
This pattern occurs year after demonstrating outside the 
correctness" at you (that can and Mr. Goodwin are at­must tackle issues that will
year yielding negligible results. stadium. 
often be just as destructive), but tempting to spark within us. threaten us when we leave thisI think the time has come for Also, announcers and re­I am trying to take Mr. Smith The ideals of social morals, institution.
Notre Dame students to em­porters could be provided with and Mr. Goodwin's advice of human rights and responsibili­Issues of misinformation by
brace bold new tactics in the pertinent information to in­
"stimulating thought and ties that remain void from the the media (Gulf War?), cen­attempt to alleviate our housing clude in their telecasts and discussion,. a little further. majority of Notre Dame stu­sorship, racism, homophobiawoes. For example, what if, on newspaper stories. 
The type of apathy which I dents is a simple result of our and the like. Further expansiona designated Saturday, Notre This type of strategy may not speak of was most poignantly sheltered and limited exposure on these issues must be left up Dame students woke up, went appeal to some, who might (and disgustingly) expressed to the world. to you. Future letters may fol­about their normal pre-footballl view the sacrifice, or for that within Anthony King's Inside low, either by me or by you.
game activities and, instead of matter any sacrifice on their Column in the Sept. 9 Observer. Much of this sheltered outlook Please follow Mr. Smith andgoing to the game, they part, as too severe. Also, there Within that column Mr. King was, and remains, beyond our Mr. Goodwin's request forboycotted the game and held a will be those who could not complains of"...the doldrums of control, but a great majority is thought and discussion. Become huge rally to protest the care less about the issue. But debating such pointless issues now within our grasp. Being informed and create a position.
housing situation? for the rest of us, the question as SUFR rights, the recognition mesmerized by the media, the But I ask you to go beyondAt fll'St this may seem to be a is whether we are going to fight of the gay and lesbians of conservative atmosphere of the thought. Reach out. Makefoolish method of self-punish­this grievance with creativity or ND/SMC, and other assorted current administration and waves. Try to change our world.
ment. But, consider what if we are simply going to bicker 
political nonsense. I want to governments, and simple If you don't do anything to
would happen. First, if all or innocuously about it from our talk about something that has ignorance all add to the limited change the world we live in,nearly all of Notre Dame's stu­cocoons of mindless bliss. 
some actual bearing on our world scope of many of my then you deserve everything
dents participated, it would be Tom McDonald lives ... Yo-Cream.,. peers. Yes, more exists out that comes your way. 
a glaring display of the solidar­Keenan Hall Concerning these opinions of there than Ralph Lauren andity we feel regarding this issue. Sept. 11, 1991 
Mr. King, I would not be at all Billy Joel (this is my one Michael Zimmer surprised if the various mem­allotted slam). Fisher Hall bers of these "pointless" Jn"Oups Issues such as gay/lesbian Sept. 16,1991 have been pounding on Mr. 
~~~ 
King's door. Apparently, Mr. King does not realize the significance that such issues bear on this campus of ours. These issues are extremely pertinent to the students in­volved, as well as the campus as a whole. 

Dining Halls' take-out policies, enforcement hypocritical 

Dear Editor: trance. I picked up my mug and versity that waters the side­I don't know if it's occurred to dining hall, someone to put 
Today I went to LaFortune to we cut through one of the other walks every night (making it the people in charge of this that more concrete sidewalks all get one of the refillable mugs­rooms to get to the entrance. impossible to get from LaFor­we take food from the dining over the grass, and water the you know, the ones that are tune back to my dorm in a hall in order to feed ourselves. sidewalks. better for the environment. On On my way through, I put straight path, incidentally). Isn't Maybe we don't feel like eating I can make a couple hundred my way back from the student some more soda in the mug. Lo it kind of stupid to waste food at the limited hours designated suggestions on how better to center, I met my roommate and and behold, just before I picked like that? for meals or we're too busy at waste that same money. For went to dinner, still carrying the up the pen to write my name the time, but I thought that the example, I have some friends mug. I was stopped on the way for the WHC, I was approached The other day, another crimi­purpose of having an 'all you who couldn't return to the Uni­in and told that I was not by a dining hall worker and in­nally inclined student -probably can eat' dining hall was that versity for financial problems, allowed to bring the mug into formed that I had to go empty another one of those environ­students were fed as much as O'Shaughnessy could use fans, the dining hall. my mug because I was not al­mentally conscious, socially they wanted/needed. increase security. The list is 
So we just went to dinner, and lowed to take soda out of the concerned dining hall food It's not as though we're steal­endless. on the way out, my roommate dining hall. thieves-was halted in her get­ing enormous amounts of food reminded me about the signups Not even, "please don't do this away for absconding with a yo­to feed the rest of South Bend. Catherine Kane for the Wednesday Lunch Fast again,,. but throw the soda cream and two peaches. What And they're paying someone to Siegfried Hall which were at another en-away-this from the same uni-was she thinking? watch what I take out of the Sept. 19, 1991 
Dear Editor:  center and a soup line.  We  
"Where are you from?"  the  learned  about  safety,  
familiar question arises.  An  transportation  and  ethnic  
equally familiar reply is spoken  cuisine.  I ate my first bite of  
--"just outside Chicago". Yes, I  soul food, and digested  more  
admit, in many ways I belong to the "just outside Chicago" group. Though my residence could be more accurately de­scribed with the word nomadic. As many who live just outside Chicago or any other city (South Bend included), I knew less than I thought about urban life. My cultural illiteracy led me to wonder about the diverse metropolitan environment. This past fall's Cultural Diver­sity Seminar presented the op­portunity to explore and nur­ture my curiosity.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Urban r in icago. cornucopia ot a n.an of our The seminar provided me with Soon enough, Arvis Averette, souls. the chance to dispel fears and an African American Arvis was the roughest of the gain insight in to urban community activist, pulled this people with whom we met. Yet communities: Asian, Latino, security out from under me. As the other visits and events were African American, White we journeyed through the no less challenging. We spoke Ethnic, the rich and the super-African American with leaders in Korean, Jewish, rich, the poor and the super-neighborhoods, he challenged African American, Native poor. every word I formed. American, South Asian and Catholic communities. We From the day I arrived at Later, many in our group and viewed a Puerto Rican play and Chicago's Urban Ufe Center, my other groups would describe discovered Hispanic murals unacknowledged stereotypes Arvis as a man in a perpetual with artist Carlos Cortez. were repeatedly challenged. bad mood. Though Arvis We saw the infamous Robert Before, I had found a certain grated on our nerves, he Taylor Holmes, the "projects", security in the belief that I challenged our consciences. He the middle class, and the  food for my soul. How can I present this semi­nar to you? The title, Cultural Diversity Seminar, names the experience. My words give some meaning to the experi­ence. Yet only your participa­tion can add understanding to this experience. If you have the courage, I challenge you, as I was challenged, to disturb your security and sign up for the Cultural Diversity Seminar, which will be held over October Break.  
The Center for Social Concerns offers this one credit seminar in conjunction with the  knew about diversity. Were not the overpass truck stops or the Mexican Zocolos a virtual  did not allow empty nods of understanding or blind accep­tance of his words. He de­ wealthy African American neighborhoods. We worked together in a neighborhood  Jayne Ader Off-Campus Sept. 16, 1991  




f 
l ~ 
l 
... l 
' 
< 
SEPTEMBER 20·22 



:··~·· 

:;,, 
~l! 

:•:!": 
=g; 

)! 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
n a sudden and shocking departure from tradition, yester­day Father Edward 
"Monk -Monkarino 
-The Monkster" Malloy announced that there would be no, repeat, NO TAIL­GATING OF ANY KIND. 
Sources within the Dome con­firm that he is "really serious this time." 
Citing the recommendations of a recently appointed Double Secret Task Force, Malloy has concluded that tailgating-re­gardless of the vehicle -would 
The Notre Dame community has united in an effort to notify subway alumni of this new pol­icy, so as to lessen the chance of any possible uprisings on the part of season ticket holders. Last-minute Faxes, T-shirts reading "TAILGATING: DON'T DO IT," and even a special bul­letin during WVFI's Rock Lob­ster Power Hour should insure that there will be no surprises before the Michigan State foot­ball game this Saturday. 

Malloy conce es that there will be grumbling over the lack of subs, beer, and sweaty drunken students, but is confi­dent that a substitute activity will be found to occupy spirited fans before kickoff. 
He has suggested "a nice pre­game mass, possibly with a slide show," but maintains to be open to any well-thought-out 

Parisi's 'Tent Gate Party': the n1 
By FRAN MOYER Accent Wnter 
Y 
urn, Yum, Yum!!!!! 
Hey, all you 
expensive, semi­
good Italian food 
affectiodados, I have something for you to do on any home football weekend. 
I'm not talking about hanging out at some petty bourgeois pizza joint. No my fellow Domers, I'm talking about hobnobbing with some hip mid­dle aged Fightin' Irish fans at Parisi's 1991 "Tent Gate Party." 
A "tent gate party?" Yes, I have to admit I was a bit skeptical, but who wouldn't 
• 


proposals, typed double-spaced on letterhead stationery. 
To thwart any "bad apples" who might thumb their noses at this unprecedented amendment to "DuLac" and park their RV's in White Field without permis­sion and with the full intention of consuming hot dogs with relish and singing the Fight Song in a hoarse and possibly agitating manner, Malloy has issued the following heartfelt plea: 
THINK OF THE EXPENSE INVOLVED. 
A proper tailgater is a costly undertaking. Why, finding a place to store the gold Volk­swagen Bug (that was painted in a mercifully brief fit of 

be. To ease your apprehension The food at this gathering is rna• and whet you appetite, let me not free, nor is the drink. No, fror describe to you just what en-there is no mooching beer or Mik compasses this thing Parisi's food off of these people. In tas restaurant likes to call a tent order to join this party, you stro gate party. must pay, and pay heavily. The wor 
Well first of all, the restaurant meal itself is $10, while soda is fine has gone all out to make you $1, beer $2, and mixed drinks Tl think that you are hanging out $3. cate on Red Field on a home football Considering the quality of the tha weekend. I must give the food, this price is even higher WOll restaurant a 5 on this score. than it may seem. The food was wit) They did a good job. There is a not horrible, but it was not good han giant tent, hence the "tent gate enough to pay ten bucks for w party," a truck full of beer, either. For $10 we were served AI plastic plates, and even a few antipasto, a lettuce salad, rolls, tipa port-o-pots. steamed vegetable medley, dis I 
The resemblance to anything baked mostaccioli, and chicken port on Red Field, however, ends cacciatore. there. Sounds great. Right? Well, it 
e e 


s Fightin' Irish spirit) in the off­t season alone is a money­squandering endeavor not to be overlooked. 
E Then there's the added ex­pense of a wide-screen TV for the pre-game "Lou Holtz Show," 
y 
a the rented blimp attached to your RV as a distinguishing
.­
landmark, the troupe of Irish dancers you had imported for atmosphere -besides, where are you going to find tickets for ten ruddy redheads? 

There are many ingredients that contribute to a successful tailgater, which add up to roughly the equivalent of a year's tuition (ha ha, no, not that much). Some of the essen­tials: 
nex tb e s't th in uto Re dFie I d ?­
•$2,416.98 worth of beer 
•Leprechaun suits for the en­tire family 
•Lou 
Holtz 

•
Plaid thermos (2) 

•Cool 
Ranch Doritos 

•Bales 
of hay 

•Wading 
pool (slide optional) 

•Disco 
ball 

•Irish 
Guards (at least four) 

•Duct 
tape 

•Anything 
large and inflatable 

•ND 
Marching Band 


THINK OF THE RISKS IN­VOLVED. 
One word: Hibachi. 

THINK OF THE ELDERLY. 
Have we paused for a mo­ment to contemplate exactly what this will mean to the older alumni, who are deteriorating mentally at an exponential rate that is nearly equal to their yearly donations? 
Think what a godsend it would be for these people to no longer have an excuse to wear plaid pants (except for on the golf course, where wearing vi­brant colors are an important precaution in identifying any heart attack victims in the sand traps). 
THINK OF THE DEMANDS ON SECURITY. 
With the recent surge of crime in the South Bend com­munity, Security has its hands full keeping the drug traffic in the stairwells of LaFortune to a bare minimum, and simply does not have the time or the pa-~ tience to deal with overzealous football fans waving ND wind socks. 
Besides, there's only so much tear gas to go around. 

may sound great, but take it from me and my three cohorts, Mike, Melanie and Kelly, the taste was not great. In the strongest and most descriptive words I can use: the meal was fine. 
The portions could also be categorized as "fine." I figured that at a "tent gate party," I would be able to stuff my face with as much food as I could handle. 
Wrong. 
All of the food, except the an­tipasto, salad, and rolls, was dished out to us in meager portions. 
One cute little thing at this "tent gate party" is the large screen TV that shows highlights of old Notre Dame football games. It was nice, but didn't really do it for me. Good try. 
Perhaps I'm being too harsh. I really do not think that this "tent gate party" was really meant for Notre Dame students, or for that matter any one under the age of 25. 
The night my entourage and I attended, the average age of our fellow Tent Gater was probable about 45. For them, I am sure the evening was very pleasant. They could sit down, have a martini, eat just the right amount of Italian food, and watch some great Notre 
Dame games. Ah, life on Golden 
Pond. 

If your parents are coming in for a game, recommend Parisi's "tent gate party." Although the food was only fme, the relaxed student-free atmosphere will probably be right up their alley. You can see the Dome, but not be harassed by the obnoxious alumni, or the drunken stu­dents. 
Parisi's "1991 Tent Gate Party" can be found at 1412 South Bend Avenue. Just look for the tent. It will be open on Friday from 4 p.m. to midnight and on Saturday from 10 a.m. to midnight. For information, call Parisi's at 232-4244. 
TV ... just like being there 
By SHARON HOLTHAUS 
Accent Writer 

A 
lthough the best seats in the house for football games are in the stadium, limited availability of tickets or away games force fans to choose an alternate plan. A number of fans can be found cheering in front of the television. 
At home games, football fol­lowers take advantage of the various campus sites which televise the games. The Joyce ACC, La Fortune, the student lounge in the Law Library and the Oak Room all show the games on big-screen TV's for viewing. 
"It was surprising how many people trickled in and out during the Indiana game. There were probably 50 people who. sat and watched the game here," said Guy Gorbitz, assistant manager of the Oak Room. 
Paul Broadhead, operations manager of La Fortune, said that home games are shown on two large screen TV's. "Probably 250 to 300 people watched the Indiana game here," Broadhead said, "and we had about 500 people last year for the Miami game." 
The games are also replayed at the Oak Room the night following football games if Notre Dame wins. "Since many students go to the games, they enjoy watching it on TV later," Gorbitz said. 
The Alumni Association provides a ten foot viewing screen for home games in Gym 3 of the JACC. 
Last year was the rtrst year this service was offered. As the number of alumni grows each year, more people lose in the lottery. 
"We're providing a service which we felt was necessary. So many people come back to campus without tickets. Now they can enjoy the game in a theater­
. like setting with a group of Notre Dame fans," said Peter Prancia, director of Alumni community service programs. 
"We usually show 'Wake Up the Echoes' at ten and eleven. Then, WNDU provides the link for the pre-game show and the game," Prancia contirrued. "Approximately 250 to 300 people watched the Indiana game. The place was packed for the Miami game last year." 
Although the Irish and their cheering section may be separated by miles and miles, many Notre Dame supporters are with their team in spirit, watching the away games on television. 
Unfortunately, students will not be able to watch the upcoming Notre Dame/ Stanford game on campus. The game will be broadcast on ESPN, a cable channel, and there are not cable connections on campus. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) inquired about televising the game at La Fortune. 
"The reason why we wanted to show the Stanford game was because people don't have access to ESPN in their rooms. However, this would cost approximately $11,000," Meg Creedon, a SUB commissioner said. 
"Since LaFortune is a public facility, a costly fee would be involved to purchase a site li­cense," Broadhead explained. 
All Notre Dame football games will be televised on either NBC or cable. Televisions throughout campus provide places for Notre Dame fans to congregate and· cheer on the Fightin' Irish. 
The Observer Friday, September 20, 1991
page 14 
Darby O'Gill III: the sesquicentennial spaniel 
Quite early last Friday, After 
known. and understanding surpassing a two-week illness, the late, This doesn't mean that he those of man himself. great Darby O'Gill. II slipped Father Robert Griffin hasn't inherited eternal life. As "Least it impair your loose from the leash tethering Father Bob Kerby told me courage, you shall n~ver foresee him to sullen earth, and went LeHers to a Lonely God years ago, there's more to your death. Lest it impair your home to the playing fields of heaven than mangy sheep lying loyalty, you shall be blind to the heaven. He would have been sown with neutered lions. faults of man. Lest it impair twelve years-old on Dec. 17. If it pleases God, Darbatius your understanding, you are 
The following evening, on the is that at my age, the loss of a your pet seriously, to train that Secundus and I will travel denied the power of words. Sesquicentennial weekend, a companion you've make your­bundle of undisciplined instincts through the Gates of Pearl on Let no fault of language nine-week old cocker spaniel self responsible for hurts in un­and energies, teaching him each other's coat tails, after cleave an accord beyond that of from a Spotsylvania puppy expected ways. good habits so that he can lead the years we spent together man with any other beast -or farm near Fredericksburg, Vir­I keep feeling that by dying, you to love him. keeping each other honest. Two even man with man. Speak to ginia, arrived at Notre Dame, Darby II has let me down. So As a priest who is now on the nights before he died, I had a your master only with your 
sporting the hand-me-down much of me was invested in way to breaking in his third dream from which I woke up mind, and through your honest name of Darby O'Gill. him; then he became sick; and Darby O'Gill, for use as a cam­crying. eyes.As a puppy, D.O.G. III is a in two weeks, it was over. pus minister, I've wondered if I dreamed that I died myself; "Walk by his side; sleep in his 
look-alike to both his predeces­Meeting the new dog, I felt there are perceptions of truth and as soon as I passed doorway; forage for him, ward sors. The Darby of the Nineties mostly tired at the thought of that my beastie has that I don't through passport control in the off his enemies, carry his bur­-available, if needed, as the becoming dependent again on a have. Is the Voice, more instant celestial country, I met Brother dens, share his affliction; love Sesquicentennial Spaniel, for short-lived animal. But if he's than the beating feet, round Viator, former rector of Stan­him and comfort him. AnQ in everything except fund-raising disappointed in me, he doesn't him like a bursting sea, saying: ford who passed away last De­return for this, man will fulfill 
-makes his home in Stanford; show it. "I am He whom thou seekest"? cember. 
your needs and wants -whichbut of course every student he (from Francis Thompson's After greeting me, he said: "I shall be only food, shelter, and 

meets is immediately his best Holding the pup -warm, "The Hound of Heaven.") hope you haven't been worried affection.friend, which is the way Mother squirming, and not housebro­Could there really be a about the dog. I've been keep­"So be silent, and be a friendNature must have intended it to ken, scarcely weighing five "gospel according to Snoopie"? 
ing an eye on him until you to man. Guide him through the be, since no young dog is an is­pounds -in my cupped hands, Or does he, unseen by me, wor­came." I give you my word that perils along the way to the land land. I'm surprised to discover that ship at the shrine of the great I didn't make this up. 
that I have promised Him. ThisDarby II's remains will be he's more wonderful in his ca­god Pan, patron of shepherds Here is a piece of writing not shall by your destiny and your
cremated, and his ashes will be pacity for affection than any­before the Good Shepherd's my own, that I use at every dog immortality. So spoke theburied in the Grotto near the thing else that exists. birth? that attend. "Godfuneral I Lord. And the dog heard and
ashes of the original Darby, be­Happiness is not a warm Religion is not a dog's strong summoned a beast from the was content." cause he came to me as Our gerbil, kitten , or velveteen rab­suit. Only Christians need a field and he said, Behold man , God has allowed me to live toBlessed Mother's gift. bit. Happiness is a face-licking value system that helps them created in my image. 
see my third Darby. How is he.

When the first Darby was dy­puppy on the make; and these separate the sheep from the "Therefore adore him. You the first two?
different froming because his heart was worn isn't a horse, lamb, or billy goats, so that the saved can shall protect him in the wilder­For the time being at least, I out, I brought him to the goat anywhere that could give look down on the lost. Darby II ness, shepherd his flocks, don't have to worry aboutGrotto, asking Our Lady to give you such undivided attention. had no shrines he could call his watch over his children, ac­
putting the lid on the toilet seahim a new lease on life. Her an­If the child is father of the own, though he used to love the company him wherever he may sown, because his legs are too swer was: "Let the tired animal man, then the pup is father of Grotto, when we walked there go -even civilization.

unto short for him to drink form the 
rest from his labors, and I will the seasoned sire, blind to the at night. You shall be his companion, his bowl.send you a younger version." faults of the master who pro­He offered no prayers to the ally, his slave. As the Darby of the Nineties,
'"Easy come, easy go," you vides for him thoughtfully and Author of his being; and I am "To do these things, God 
I hope I have him housebrokenmay think, noticing how seem­lovingly. the only master he was ever ac­said, I endow you with these in­by the time the new millennium
tessly the changing of the guard A vicious man can ruin his quainted with; if it were stincts uncommon to other arrives. He has never said thattook place last week. The truth pet; but the trick is, if you take otherwise, I think I would have 
beasts: faithfulness, devotion, he God didn't love you. 

Pkasc support.
. t.

American Heart ft Association V 


• THE HAMMES • •• NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ••
Mint Meltaway Combination 

·on the campus··
•. tr 1/2 lb. $4.40 -i' • 

OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-5 11b. $8.75 • 
• SPECIAL GAME DAY HOURS 
• SATURDAY 8 A.M.-6 P.M. • 
t ~1MM~ t • ® • 
+ Assorted Chocolates Trinidads &Truffles +
Pixies __.._ 
50

• ~ 1 lb. $7· fv 0Ytt 1 lb $7 50 flJ!!. ~~! 1/21b. $4.75 .7tt..t• .......-­
2 lbs. $15.00 • · · -~ w __.._
• 11b. $9.50 .......-­
,..I 
Friday, Se~tember 20, 1991 page 15
The Observer 
The Observer accepts classified& every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. af the 
Notre Darre office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar College 
Cancer. Dead~ne lor next -<lay daaaifieda is 3p.m. AI dasdieda muat be prepaid. The




Classi-fieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. lnduding al spaces. 
WANTED: Off-campus roommate. NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR Needed: 2 tickets for USC and 4 NEED 2 USC TIX I HAVE $$$ Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. MSU! KATE 4998. for Tenn. Student or GAs. Call Sue JULIE X4842
NOTICES 
NEED: ND ALUM NEEDS TICKETS at 271-0053. Wanted: FACULTY ADVISOR for NO FOOTBALL TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL ND HOME NEED 2 NAVY GAS presently forming WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. GAMES. Need 2 MICH ST. GA's to shame @284-5029
USED BOOKS CHEAPII!!I!!III UNO WATERSKI CLUB CALL JOE AT #271-1430. Mich St alums (Mom and Dad)
25% off list price call Chris @X2123 WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD Kent277-1112 Need GA's for Pitt.,
10-5:30 everyday JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? . USC, and Tenn.
Pandora's Books corner of ND NEED RIDE TO DUBUQUE, lA NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC PLEASE HELP! I NEED 2 PITI Need 2 student tix or GA's for Jay x1578
ave& Howard OCT 4-6-WILL HELP WITH GAS ON 10126. CALL JIM AT 818-789-GA's. X-1750 Kyle Michigan State and 2 GA's and 1 X2819 0654. student for Pitt. Call 284-3814 and Need Navy GA'~II Derek at
TYPING AVAILABLE Need MSU GA tickets... leave your name, number and the x1374
287-4082 HELP!! DESPERATELY need I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE Call Julie x2870 price. 
4 GA's for USC for family !I WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A NEEDED:
Fund raising I 50% profit for your 
Alice x4907 RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS I Need MSU tics, GA or stud. Need 4 USC GA's
organization; clubs, charities, ect. ADDED BONUS Susan x4276 Call Bill 3 GA.'s to USC game
Five different programs available. 
Desperately need ride for Oct. CHRIS X3414 or3410 X1143 please call Mike at x1578
Call Nancy at 232-8242 Break--anywhere on LI,NY PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX Please helpll X2172 Keri NEED 2-3 MSU GAs Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay SELLING TICKETS ALL GAMES. Need Tenn GAsTyping 
STEVE #1083 $$$. Call at work LUIS 273-1528 Have$$$$Fast, Professional 
(312) 701-6204 or at home Karen x4808277-7406 
FOR RENT 
NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's (708) 616-7818 anytime. NEEDED: OneGA for NAVY. CALLJOE X2341 PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX Call : Lisa at x4832NO VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL 
PERSONAL
DRINKING GLASSES, $10. NOW VCR, TV Rentals: 
Need 2 stud tix to MICH. ST!II Call Need 2 Tenn GAs. Will Trade NEED 4 TENN GA'S. 288-9621
TAKING ORDERS. BETTY 239-Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters 
Pete x1791. 2 Pitt, USC or Navy GAs HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT
7458 OR 289-1321 only $99.95. I am the Lizard King and I can do
Nick 239-7733 TIX, AND$$$$$ TO TRADE.
13· color TV, two semesters only anything.
LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3 $69.95. 
Tennessee studs. Call George FOR SALE: 1 USC STUD and I have four Purdue tickets!
NOTRE DAME VIDEO VCR, two semesters, $99.95. Happy birthday Joe Roberts.
at x1672. 1 TENN STUD. Call ALLENFor fast free delivery, call 
#3287 Best offer takes them I
*NEW MOVIES* COLLEGIATE RENTALS Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 272-5959. 
DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S FOR SALE: student ticket book call Chris @ X2123
-Awakenings BETH ANN HERRMANN!!
1 MSU 5 games left x1926
-Dances With Wolves BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WELCOME TO NOTRE DAMEI
2PITI NEED 2-5 MSU GA's.
-Edward Scissorhands 219-291-7153 I CAN'T WAIT FOR DINNER ...
PLEASE HELP! 2G.A.,s Stanford For Sale PLEASE CALL 287-3587.
-New Jack City LOVE, DAVE
KAREN X4918 Call John @4050
-HomeAione House for Rent Need several Michigan State 
$150/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 $50 FREE merchandise; room
WANTED: 3 PITI GA's for Need one Navy GAlli--cali GA.'s ; call x2789
*SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES* 8am-4pm. decor, Xmas gifts, etc. Host a
family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! Ellen-277-4892 home/dorm or catalog party with
HELP MEl Dan x2349 Need 3 STATE GAs or STUDS
-Basement of the Stud. Center HOUSEMATE WANTED: Shr 2 Decor and More. Call Nancy at
Will trade 2 Pitt GA's for 2 USC BADLYx3673
4:00-7:00 p.m. BR Hse w/lib, quiet, grad M Lg Kit, 232-8242.
Need to sell 4 Michigan State GA's. Great 40 yd line seats. Call7 DAYS A WEEK wshrtdry, gar, AC, plenty storg. 
GA's--call Kathryn-x2808 Allison x4928 NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR
$250, shr utils Avt Oct 1 Jeff 288­POOR RELATIVES.
3878 If you taped PRIME TIME last 
Air Force GA's, X1502 NEED 2 USC TIX x4231 CALL KEVIN X1589
LOST/FOUND I Thursday evening, please call 
Furnished apts. near N.D. Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 pm or
NEEDED: 2 GA's FOR EITHER NOTRE DAME I Have 2 NAVY GA's and would
cozy 1 bedrm $255 
272-3753 after 5. 
FOUND: One man's watch clean 2 bedrm $340, PITI, USC or NAVY. TICKETS WANTED like to trade for 2 PITI GA's on lawn in front of Keenan­
CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks! 271-1371 Chris x1998
dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320. Are you going to PURDUE? I need Stanford. Please call x2722 
a ride. Beth x4341 --· 
-USC TROJANS-NEED M.ST. TIX Need one Pitt GA. X2172 ask for
to daim. NOTRE DAME AVE.2 
-need SIX g.a.'s -NEED PITI TIX Keri
BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA
CALL R 0 B at x1845 213-470-4419LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT 
I 
Info on semester, year, graduate, 
Lv. Mssg. ..
STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE summer, and internship programs in 
RETURN. FOR SALE I need 2-3 Michigan St. GA's I HAVE 2 PITI GA'S. WILL TRADE Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and 
Call Dan @271-9239 L.-----------.1-call Kathleen@ X4082. FOR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. LEAVE 
Melbourne. Programs start at
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS MESSAGE. 1-800-345-6725, EXT. 
$3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill Need 6 USC GA's and 3 Tennessee RANDY 800-323-7687 76063. T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­Ga's.
WALLET ON 9/9 (MON.) 
FEMALE MUSICIANS WANTED TO
Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone Call #3718 NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL WANTED: MICH. ST. GA'SIF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ED FORM AN ALL-GIRLS BAND.
Game Day Promotions 291-6394. MIKE X 2322 & STUDENT TIX. ' 
OR STEVE AT X3402 REWARD! I CALL JONI X3793 OR LAURA
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT: X3486
2 One-way tickets from SB to Philly. Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade ND '82/SMC '83 grads from PA 256-7034found claddagh at the drovers leave Nov. 14,$125 ea. Call287-for 4 Pitt GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. to Calif. returning for reunion.
concert. x2903 
9676. We need GA's for USCI Please I HAVE Four Michigan St. GA's -N.D. FOOTBALL FANS­
I NEED 2 USC GAs and will pay. help usll! Call my little sister, I NEED Two USC or Pin GA's
LOST: Student 1.0. card case LISTEN TO:
LAPTOP COMPUTER Call DAVE at X1859 AMY, at X2875. THANKS! Will TRADE or SELL or BUY
w/ temporary I.D., "BUD SWIRSKI'S IRISH
Zenith 181, dual3.5 drives Call x1694
driver's license, and SUPERFANS"IBM P.C. compatible Please help, I need TennGA's, call I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY
other cards belonging ON OLDIES 1490 A.M.,
DOS, in carton, rarely used. Kevin@# 1407. PLEASE HELP MEl x4312John Have GA, MSU, Call 288-0730 
to Francis Kelly. 11:00 TO 12:00, SATURDAY
Call 272-3255 EVENINGS.
PLEASE return to 307 Carroll! BEFORE THE GAME !II!! I
WILL TRADE 2 GA's ANY HOME I need tix for Tenn. (GA or Stu) 'DA IRISHIIIIII 
Tape Deck, Stereo Cabinet, GAME FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097 Call Joe at x2064. I NEED TWO PITI GA's Very large pillow. Steve, Will trade two Purdue GA's
·········Losr··········· 
239-6847 Need 1 MICH ST GA I need 2 MSU GA's. or pay cash
Black Leather Men's Wallet Happy Birthday to MIKE HEALY 
Jackie 277-3610 Call 283-2067. CALL MIKE @ x3263
at the Common's -if you found it or Happy Birthday to MIKE HEALY
Racing bike in excellent condition.
took it by accident Welcome back we missed you
Many accesories. Call #3718. NEED 2 USC GAs NEEDEDI Pin GAs Navy stud. If
PLEASE CALL Have a great 22nd
call234-7740 2 USC GA's Needed you can help call Scott 2373.
Kristen Harknen 288-9421
......................................... 2 WOMEN'S &2 MEN'S 10-Call Patrick@ 271-1573 
SPEED SCHWINN FULL SIZE I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! 
The Law School Caravan is
BIKES. $100 EA. FOR SALE: 4 MICH ST. GA HELP!! NEED 2 PITI GA'S FOR CALL MIKE AT 1103. 
coming!!! Wed,Sept 25,10:30-12:30, 
272-6139. BEST OFFER PARENTS CALL TIM X4063
LOST:Silver daddagh ring with Stepan.
TOM x1781 NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's for Alum. 
green marble heart. Left in 
Round Trip ticket My dad's rich. Please call Susan: 284-4435
Theodore's bathroom during The Law School Caravan is 
to ATLANTA Sell me an MSU GA.
Drovers concert around 9:00. coming !II Wed, Sept 25, 10:30­
good until Christmas Need just one MSU GA-will pay Mickey, x1846 have2 Tenn
Extreme sentimental value. Please 12:30, Stepan.
$$$ !II Call Deb x4969 need 2 USC & 2 Pitt 
call x4231 if found. Ask for Erin. 
Walk to NO from beautiful trade or buy The Law School Caravan is 
contemporary. 11 years NEW. 3 Help! I need 4 Michigan State HELP I 284-4050
LOST coming!!! Wed, Sept 25, 10:30­
BR, 2 1/2 bath, 2300 sq. ft. Call GA.'s. Please call Andrew@ 233-I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN
Gold colored class ring 12:30, Stepan.
Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or 9588. STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH Need 3 MSU GA tickets. Callbetween Fitzpatrick and 
Cressy &Everett BH &G. 233-CALL3353 ASK FOR SCOTI Christa 1346.
Flanner 
......................
6141. NAME YOUR PRICE! WEALTHY
Please call Tom x1172 SUBWAY PARTY SUBS 
RELATIVE WILL PAY $$$FOR 2 Please, I need 3 Pitt GA's 
Order now for MSU tailgate parties! 
ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR MSU GA TICKETS Ill CALL SHANA, HAVE 4 MSU GA's, Manx 3795
LOST: RED, WHITE AND BLUE Great food for $2/person.
MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND 234-1752111 want to trade for 2 Pitt and 2 USC 
BIKE HELMET IN EITHER 2 locations near NO:
CALL 277-6703 GA's. x1236. FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME
CUSHING OR O'SHAG ON 9111 SR 23 & Ironwood: 2n-7744 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU GAME. GAMES 273-1802
OR 9112. PLEASE CALLI!!! 
Guitar Lessons CALL 283-1448 i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791
DAVID--271-85n 
from ND Teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343FOUND men's gold watch in 
I 
I NEED NAVY GAs OR STUDS.
Fitz computer lab Wed. night WILL TRADE PURDUE GAs +call #1245 TICKETS. $.HEATHER x3750. 
WANTED I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR
I I NEED GA OR STO TIXS ALL 
TENN GAME II X 1684

'-------------1 
HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND I NEED 4 TENNESSEE G.A.'S $$$
NEED 2GA OR 1STD/1GA FOR
EXCELLENT BUSINESS SEAN H. @289-6439.
USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598.
EXPERIENCE!! Openings available for individuals or Need 2 USC GA's!!!l
Help!II
student organizations to promote Willing to pay$$$$$ the country's most successful call Beth 288-9421
My parents are comtng out to
SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­
celebrate my 21st birthday on
Campus Programs 
Saturday the 21st. They need 2
1-800-327-6013. PLEASE HELP!!
MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a 
My two (BIG) brothers are comingnolden birthdav.
$Marketing Co. needs NDISMC for the I Jsr. game-they will be
Call Julie at x1342
students originally from South Bend. VERY MAD if I Make own hours,GREAT PAY, good don't get them tix.
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR 
exp. for resumes.$$271-1803$$ NEED 2 USC GA'S-PLEASE!!
NAVY GAME. CALL MARK 
Call Colleen at X4900.

COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161.
CLEAN-UP PERSON APPLY AT BRIDGETS 
I NEED 8 PITI & 4 TENN. TIXII 
Needed:287-6966 EVES. 

CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER 
Mich. St. + USC GA's5.00 PER HOUR WILL BE REFUSED!!! 

Joe#1245 

The Observer is now acc&pting applications for: 
Circulation Drivers 
Must be available Friday afternoons 
Contact Joe Guddemi @ 283-3936 or Gil Gomez @ 239-7471 
" 

52577 US 31 N: 277-1024 

....... _
------­
DINNER FOR2 

FOR $8.99 Pick any two Gourmet Sandwiches, two ganlen Salads, plus your choice ol French Fries or Onion Rings and 2 M!ni-SWJdan 
expiration date 10/6 
Buy any size sundae and 
------­
SUNDAE 

receiw a second me o( the 99¢ same size for 99c expiration datel0/6 
see CLASS/ page 19 

.. ;,-_ ····'--.... .. 
. , h • :., ~ .•. ·, 

page 16 SCOREBOARD Wednesday, September 20, 1991 
BASEBALL National league ATLANTA BRAVES-Signed Bill Lajoie, special assignment scout. to a two-year conrad extension. 
MIAMI MARLINs-Named Dave Dombrowski general manager and signed him to a four-year contract. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Named Dan Duquette general manager and vice-president of player personnel. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Purchased the contract of Royce Clayton. shortstop, from Shreveport of the Texas League. BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon 
MIAMI HEAT -Named Tony Fiorentino scouting coordinator. 
ORLANDO MAGIC-Announced that Rich DeVos has purchased the club from a group headed by William duPont Ill. FOOTBALL National Football League 
INDIANAPOLIS COL TS-Piaced Ray Donaldson, center, on the Injured reserve list. Signed Chris ConAn and Mark Cannon, offensive linemen. Released Cedric Figaro, linebacker. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Re-signed Shawn McCarthy, punter. Canadian Football League 
TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Traded Howard Deli, slotback, to the Winnipeg Blue Borrbers for a 1992 sixth-round draft pick. HOCKEY National Hockey league 
BUFFALO SABRES-Sent Philippe Boucher, defenseman, to Granby of the Ontario Hockey League, and Jason Dawe, left wing, to Peterborough of the OHL. 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Assigned Chris Luongo and Gord Kruppke, defensemen: Lonnie Loach and Kirk Thomlinson. left wings; and Gary Shuchuk and Micah Alvazoff, centers, to Adirondack of the American Hockey League. 
' 
Alsigned Scott King, goalie, to Fort Wayne of the 
International Hockey League. 
EDMONTON OILERS-Traded Grant Fuhr, 
goaltender. and Glenn Anderson and Craig 
Berube. forwards,to the Toronto Maple Leafs for 
Vincent Damphousse and Soon Thornton, 
forwards; Lt*e Richardson, detenseman; Peter lng, 
goaltender; and future oonsiderations. 
HARTFORD WHALERS-Re-signed Brad 
Shaw, defenseman. 
Eaat Coaat Hockey Le•gue 
RALEIGH ICECAPS-Announced affiliations 
with Los Angeles Kings and Toronto Maple Leafs. 
TOLEDO STORM-Named Scott Luhrmann 
trainer and equipment manager. 
SOCCER 
Major Soccer le•gue 
SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Signed Paul 
Dougherty, midfielder. 
National Profesalonal Soccer league 
CANTON INVADERS-Signed Kla, forward, to a three-year oontract. 
HARRISBURG HEAT-Signed Todd Smith, defender. COLLEGE 
SOUTHWEST CONFERENCE-Named Britton 
Banowsky assistant commissioner. 
FAIRFIELD-Named Chris Tetro graduate 
assistant sports Information director. 
LAWiRENCE-Named Mke Cowan hockey 
coach. 
RIDER-Named Chel Dalgewicz coordinator of 
C0f11)1laooe and academic support for athletics. 
UNLV-Named Ed Goorjlan men's assistant 
basketball coach, David Rice graduate assistant, 
and Tommy Sheppard assistant sports Information 
director. 
HHL PRESEASON 
Thuraday'a Gamea 
N.Y. Rangers 5, N.Y. Islanders 2 Phladeiphia 5, N-Jersey 3 
. Minnesota 5, St. Louis 4 
Toronto 5, Quebec 1 
Edmonton 5, Buffalo 3 
vancouver 4, Winnipeg 2 
Calgary 4, Pittsburgh 0 
Los Angeles 3. San Jose 0 
Frlday'a Game• 
Boston at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 
Chicago ve. Buffalo at Rochester, N.Y., 7:35p.m. 
Hartford 111. Washington at Norfolk. Va.. 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at New Jersey, 7:35p.m. Minnesota vs. Vancouver at Milwaukee. 8:35p.m. 
Saturday'• Game• 
Montreal 111. Boston at Ottawa. Ontario. 7:35 P.m. 
W•hlngton 111. N.Y. Rangers at Miami. 7:35p.m. 
Wlnnipeg a1 Quebec, 7:35 p.m. 
Delroi1 vs. Phl~la at Orlando. Fla., 7:35 p.m. 
HartfOfd vs. N-Jersey at Louisville, Ky •• 7:35p.m. 
Edmonton at Toronto, 8:05p.m. 
Vancouver vs. Minnesota at St. CloUd, Minn., 8:05 
p.m 
Chicago a1 St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 
Pilllbur;h a1 LOI Angela&. 10:35 p.m. 
(OLEAHY DIVISIO~..~~.~Y.~~~ 
Alumni :~·-::.-~·-:~·~·-::.-::--::.-:·-:·.-\:.-::--::.-::--::.-::.::.-::--::-::--)-: NK:knarre: Dawgs . ::·.::.-::·.:·.::·.:-.-::·•.-.:• _;."·.::-:·.::-:·.<·."·.:;:·.::-::.-;·::. 
~:M~;~~~~~ ·.. .-_.:.-··.:: ·:·-~:lf[!f!lfft:.-:·.; 
~:~:~~~~;alf1)Us in chafll)K>nship garre ::~:::::-~::~:::::::::::::.::.-:::~::::::~::::::::::::::~::::::::~::::::/{:: 
Defense: muhiple 

Exira point: 1990 Leahy MVP Jim PassinauM returns to lead an explosive 
offense. 
Cavanaugh 
Nickname: none 
Coach: Tony Novak 
1990 record: 1-3 
Playoffs: none 

Offense: 1-formatK>n Defense: 4-4 Extra point: Cavanaugh hopes to rebound from a disappointing 1990 

caJll)aign. 
Keenan 

Nicknarre: Knights Coach: Ph~ Wehby t 990 record: 1·2-1 Playoffs: none Offense: !-formation Defense: 5-2 monster Extra point: The Knights are going with a youth movement in 1991. 

Stanford 
Nickname: Studs 
Coach: Bill Gill 1990 record: 1-2-2 (1-1-2) 
Playoffs: lost to Alumni in first round 

Offense: wishbone Defense: mukiple Extra point: Standout lineman Brian KeDy returns from a year­injury. 

Zahm Nickname: lgnats Coach: Kevin Casey 1990 record: 1-2-1 Playoffs: none 
Offense: run-and-shoot Defense: 3-4 


Extra point: The !gnats will need to overcome inexperience in their offensive line in order to successfully execute the run·and·shoot. 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
NL LEADERS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE BAITING-Morris. Cincinnati, .324; TGwynn, San Diego, .317; Pendleton, Atlanta. .311; Jose, St. Louis, .308; BoniQa, Plltsburgh, .307; McGee, San Francisco, .307; WCiark, San Francisco, .301. RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 105; Johnson, N­York, 101: Sandberg, Chicago, 95; Bonilla, Pltsburgh, 93; Gant, Atlanta. 90; JBeH. Pittsburgh, 88; Pendleton, Atlanta. 87. RBI-Johnaon, New York, 106; WCiark, San Francisco, 105; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 103; Dawson, Chicago, 99; Gant, Atlanta, 95; McGriff, San Diego, 95; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 92; Strawberry, Los Angeles, 92; Murray, Los Angeles, 92. HITS-TGwynn. San Diego, 168; Butler, Los Angeles, 168; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 164; Pendleton. Atlanta, 164; Jose, St. Louis, 159; Sandberg, Chicago, 158; Grace, Chicago, 157. DOUBLES-Bonllla, Pittsburgh, 41; Jose, St. Louis, 39; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Morris, Cincinnati, 32; Sabo, Cincinnati, 32; Gant, Atlanta, 32; Zelle, St. Louis, 31; JBell, Pittsburgh, 31; McReynolds, N-York. 31. TRIPLES-Lankford, St. Louis, 14; TGwynn, San Diego, 11; Finley, Houston, 10; LGonzalez, Houston, 8; Grissom. Montreal, 8; Candaele, Houston, 1;van Slyke, Pittsburgh, 7. 
HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 35; MaWIIHams, San Francisco, 30; Gant, Atlanta, 29; Dawson, Chicago, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; McGriff, San Diego, 27; KvMitchell, San Francisoo, 27. STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 72; Grissom, Montreal, 69; DeShields, Montreal, 52; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 41: Butler, Los Angeles, 38; Lankford, St. Louis, 37; Coleman, New York, 37. PITCHING (t4 DecisK>ns)-Rijo, Cincinnati, 14-4, . 778, 2.39; Carpenter, St. Louis, 10-4, .714, 4.23; Downs, San Francisco, 10-4, .714, 4.17; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 18-8, .692, 3.29; Avery, Atlanta, t6-8, . 667, 3.48; MiWilllams, Philadelphia, 10-5, .667, 2.19; Glavine. Atlanta. 19-tO, .655, 2.52. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, N-York, 198; GMaddux, Chicago, 177; Glavine, Atlanta. 175; Harnisch, Houston, 158; Benes, San Diego. 151: Gooden, N-York, 150; Greene, Philadelphia, 146. SAVES-LeSmith, St. Louis, 41; Dibble, 
Cincinnati, 29; MiWilliams, Philadelphia, 28; Franoo, New York, 26; Righetti, San Francisco, 24; Lefferts, San Diego, 21; BLandrum. Pittsburgh, 17; DaSmith, Chicago, 17; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 
P TOP 25 

How the top 25 teams In the Associated Press' coHege footbaM poll fared Thursday: 
1. 
Florida State (3-0) did not play. Next: at No. 3 Michigan, Saturday, Sept. 28. 

2. 
Miami (2-0) did not play. Next: at Tulsa, Saturday, Sept. 28. 

3. 
Michigan (2-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 1 Florida State, Saturday, Sept. 28. 

4. 
Washington (1-0) did not play. Next: at No. 9 Nebraska. 

5. 
Florida (2-0) did not play. Next: at No. 22 Syracuse. 

6. 
Tennessee (2-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 23 Mississippi State. 

7. 
Oklahoma (1·0) did not play. Next: vs. Utah State. 

8. 
Clemson (1-Q) did not play. Next: vs. Tef'll)le. 

9. 
Nebraska (2·0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 4 Washington. tO. Iowa (2-0) did not play. Next: vs. Northern Illinois, Saturday, Sept. 28 t 1. Notre Dame (1·1) did not play. Next: vs. Michigan State. t2. Penn State (2·1) did not play. Next: vs. Brigham Young. 


13. 
Al..tlurn (2·0) did not play. Next: at Texas. 


14. 
Baylor (2-Q) did not play. Next: vs. Missouri. 

15. 
Texas A&M (1-Q) did not play. Next: at Tulsa. 

16. 
Ohio State (2-0) did not play. Next: vs. Washington State. 

17. 
Georgia Tech (2-1) beat Virginia 24-21. Next: at No.8 Clemson, Saturday, Sept. 28. 

18. 
Syracuse (2-Q) did not play. Next: vs. No. 5 Florida. 

19. 
Colorado (1-1) did not play. Next: vs. Minnesota. 

20. 
Pittsburgh (3-0) did not play. Next: at Minnesota, Saturday, Sept. 28. 

21. 
Houston (1·1) did not play. Next: at Illinois. 


22. 
Southern Cal (1-1) did not play. NeKt: vs. Arizona State. 

23. 
Mississippi State (2-Q) did not play. Next: at No. 6 Tennessee. 

24. 
California (2-Q) did not play. Next: at Arizona. 

25. 
Georgia (2-0) did not play. Next: at Alabama. 


PENNANT RACES 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat Dlvlalon 

w  L  Pel  
Toronto  82  65  .568  
Boston  79  67  .541  2112  
Detroit  75  70  .517  6  
Remaining Games  

TORONTO (15) -Home (6): Sept. 27-29, Minnesota; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2. California. Away (9): Sept. 20-22. Oakland; Sept. 23-25, CaiWomla; Oct. 4·6, Minnesota. 
BOSTON ( 16) -Home (9): Sept. 20­22, New York; Oct. 1-3, Detroit; Oct. 4-6, Milwaukee. Away (7): Sept. 23-25, BaMimore; Sept. 27-30, Milwaukee. 
DETROIT (17) -Home (11): Sept. 20-22, Milwaukee; Sept. 23-26, Cleveland; Sept. 27-30, Banimore. Away (6): Oct 1-3. Boston; Oct. 4­6, Baltimore. 
Weal Dlvlalon 
W L Pet. Minnesota 87 60 .592 Chicago 81 66 .551 6 Remaining Games 
MINNESOTA (15)-Home (8): Sept. 20-22, Texas; Sept. 24-25, Chicago; Oct. 4-6, Toronto. Away (7): Sept. 27·29, Toronto; Sept. 30­0ct. 1-3, Chicago. 
CHICAGO (15)-Home (10): Sept. 20-22. California; Sept. 27-29, Seattle; Sept. 30­0ct. 1-3, Minnesota. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, Minnesota; Oct. 4-6, Seattle. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Weat Dlvlalon 

w L Pel L06 Angeles 85 63 .574 Atlanta 84 63 .571 t/2 Remaining Games 
LOS ANGELES (14) -Home (9): Sept. 20-22, Atlanta; Sept. 27-29, San Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, San Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24­25, San Diego; Oct. 4-6, San Francisco. 
ATLANTA (15) -Home (6): Sept. 24­26, Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houston. Away (9): Sept. 20-22, Los Angeles; Sept. 27-29, Houston; Sept. 

HOME RUNS-Fie~er, Detroit, 42; Canseco, 
Oakland, 41; Carter, Toronto, 33; Thomas, 
Chicago, 30; CRipken, Baltimore, 30; Tartabull, 
Kansas City, 28; CD avis, Minnesota. 28. 
STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 50; 
Raines, Chicago, 49; RAiomar, Toronto, 48; 
Polonia, California, 44; Cuyler, Detroit, 37; White, 
Toronto, 32; Franco, Texas, 29. PITCHING (t4 Decisions)-Erlckson, Minnesota, 
18-7, .720, 3.34; Hesketh, Boston, 10-4, .714, 3.33; 
Langston. California. 11·7, .708, 3.00; JoGuzman, Texas, 12-5, .706, 2.86; Clemens, Boston, 16-8, .667, 2.52; Gullickson, Detroit, 18-9, .667, 4.08; McDowell, Chicago, 17-9, .654, 3.20; Finley, CaiWornla, 17-9, .654, 3.75. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 210; RJohnson, Seattle, 208; McDowell, Chicago, 185; Ryan, Texas, 179; Candiottl, Toronto, 162; Finley, California, ·158; Langston, California. t 58. SAVES-Eckeraley, Oakland, 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Harvey, California, 39; Aguilera. Minnesota, 39; Henke, Toronto, 32; Thigpen. Chicago, 30; Montgomery, Kansas City, 29. 
1·2, Cincinnati. 

AMERICAN LEAGUE BATTING-Franco, Texas, .340; Boggs, Boston, .332; Griffey Jr, Seattle, .327; Palmeiro, Texas, .327; CRipken. BaMimore, .326; Molitor, Milwaukee, .324; Thomas, Chicago, .323; Tartabull, Kansas 
City, .323. RUNS-Molitor, Milwaukee, 115; Canseco, Oakland, 105; Palmelro, Texas, 104; Sierra, Texas, 1 04; White, Toronto, 102; Franco, Texas, 98; 
Raines, Chicago, 96 . RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 125; Canseco, Oakland, 1 t 1; Sierra, Texas. 105; Thomas, Chicago, 103; Carter, Toronto, 103; CRipken, BaMimore, 99; JuGonzalez • 
Texas, 97. HITS-Molltor, Milwaukee, t91; CRipken, Baltimore, 189; Palmelro, Texas, 187; Sierra, Texas, 184; Puckett, Minnesota, 181; Franco, Texas. 180; RAiomar, Toronto, 173. DOUBLES-Palmeiro, Texas, 45; CRipken, Baltimore, 42; GrWfey Jr, Seattle, 41: Sierra. Texas, 41; Carter, Toronto, 41; Reed. Boston, 39; Boggs. 
Boston, 39. TRIPLES-RAiomar, Toronto, 1t; LJohnson, Chicago, 11: Molhor, Milwaukee, 11; McRae, 
Kansas City, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; Devereaux, Baltimore, 8; Mack, Minnesota. 8; Poionla. Callornla, 8. 



AHention ND & SMC Sophomores Reggae RegaHa 
"Come sail Away On Lake Michigan" 

Sophomore Class Cruise-Thursday, Oct. 3 
Buses will leave main circle at 5 pm and return at midnight dinner will be provided on the cruise. 
Tickets $25 -on sale from Oct. 18·25 at LaFortune Information Desk 
Friday, September 20, 1991 

The Observer page 17 


' . . . . . . . . . ..... 
. . -.
~ 

. . . . .. . .....· -. . . . 




If you haven't already signed up for your senior portrait, this week is your last chance to get into the yearbook. Sign up today through Friday at the Information· Desk in Lafortune 









---~~ ---·------~ 
I I 
I I I I 
,... I I 
' 



1 ' 
I I 
i 
I 

page 18 The Observer 
OC looks to repeat; Grace and Manor in way 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN of linebackers to stifle opposing but that doesn't worry coach Sports Writer offenses. Matt Garberina. "We're young, but we have a MORRISSEY lot of talent, we're very solid up
Editors note: This is the final 
"Respect" is the teams goal the middle," he said. 
part of a three-part series pre­
entering the season according The defense has experienced
viewing the 1991 men's inter­
to coach Tim Renfree. "We are linebackers Tim Klusas and 
hall football season. 
out to earn the respect we Sean Cleary. That duo will be The Parseghian division of the didn't have last year," he said. asked to provide leadership as interhall football league begins Respect is just what the Manor the rest of the defense comesplay this Sunday, and as the may earn with a talent-rich into its own.
trend in recent years has 
squad. Garberina feels fundamentalsshown, the best teams come Jamie McMillian will quar­will be his team's key to suc­from this division. OtT-Campus terback the Morrissey single cess. "We must make no mis­will be looking to duplicate last wing attack, which will also takes and secure the ball," heyear's championship run, but 
feature running back Justin said.
will face stiff competition from Kruer, and wideout Joel Wine. Grace kicks off againstthe rest of the division, espe­Leroy Adams will head a solid Flanner on Sunday.
cially Grace and Morrissey. 
offensive line, which should provide more than adequate FLANNER 
DILLON protection for McMillian and Coach Father Seeth is hop­
The Big Red have big expec­Co. ing for a big year from his tations entering the new sea­Matt Chlystek will lead the Flanner squad and he may get son, and for good reason. A defense from his linebacker po­it if the talent on his squad number of promising newcom­sition, but he won't be alone. comes together. ers join a solid base of talented Denny Morrissey will be a The Flanner attack will be veterans to give Dillon a strength at the end position and led by quarterback Clarke formidable unit. safety Joe Carol will cause Warren and fullback Jack 
Quarterback Chris Smariga trouble for opposing quarter­Barkley, who will take advan­will be the leader of the backs. tage of their talents by running Dillon's offensive attack, but he Morrissey has a bye this a pro-style offense...We have won't be alone. Tailback week and opens against Dillon good backs and a dubious line," Derrick Fluhme and fullback September 28. said Seeth. Anthony Cornetta will provide Defensively Flanner expects an adequate ground game to GRACE good pressure from defensive compliment Smariga's passing Grace had an impressive end Mike D'Mato and defensive game. Center Dave Wolken will year in 1990, fmishing a top the tackle Sean Duffy. anchor a young offensive line. Parseghian division. It appears Quarterbacks will be weary of 
Look for the Big Red to be that we can expect more of the Planner's speedy defensive solid defensively this season. same from Grace in 1991, with backs, who will blanket oppos­Hard hitting cornerback Dan an abundance of talent on both ing receivers. Schmidt and lineman Sean offense and defense. "If we stay injury-free and Grace will bring fear to oppos­Grace's wishbone attack will our offensive line gels, then we ing offenses, as will the rest of feature a new faces at both should be a solid team," said the Dillon defense. quarterback and running back, Seeth. 
"If everything comes to­gether, we should have an exciting year." said coach Paul • PARSEGHIAN DIVISION PREVIEW 
Drey .j
FUNNER 

Dillon faces defending inter­Nickname: none Coach: Falher Bill seeth
hall champion Off-Campus in 
1990 record: 2-2

its season opener. Playoffs: none Offense: pro set Defense: 5-2 Extra point: If InJury free, could be surprise team In division. 
OFF-CAMPUS 
GRACE

Coach Steve Fortunato is do­
Nickname: none 
Coach: Man Garberlna 
1990 record: 4-1 (4-Q) 

ing his best Lou Holtz impres­
sion when he speaks about his 
Playoffs: lost second round to Off-campus 
Offense: wishbone 
Defense: 5-2 

teams chances this season. 
"We have had a lot of distrac­
Extra Polnt: Tim Klusas and Sean Cleary lead 
tough defense. 

tions, and and we are very dis­

organized," he said. "It's going 
MORRISSEY 
Nickname: Manor

to be very difficult for us to re­
Coach: Tim Renfree

peat." 
1990 record: 0-4 
Playoffs: none

Just as Holtz does, Fortunato 
Offense: single wing 

may be laying it on a bit thick. 
Defense: multiple Extra Point: Manor out to earn respect
Each year The Crime fields one 
after dissapolnting 1990. 
of the league's most talented 
DILLON

teams and this year should be 
Nickname: Big Red 
Coach: Paul Dray 1990 record:1-3 

no exception. 
Offensively the team will rely 
Playoffs: none 
Offense: muldple Defense: 5-2 

on Quarterback Paul Novak, 
and an offensive line which the 
Extra Point: Big Red look to rekindle glory of past.

Holtz-like Fortunato refers to as "well rounded." On the de­
Off-campus Nickname: Crime

fensive side, Fortunato will look 
Coach: Steve Fortunato 

to his so called "decent" crew 
1990 record: 6-1 (3-1) 

Playoffs: lnteman champs 
Offense: wishbone, power I
Belles hoping for 
Defense: multiple Extra Polnt: Always tough Crime reload for 1991.

win vs St. Joseph's 

The Observer!Ann-Marie Conrado 
:-J 
By BRIDGET MCCOURT Sports Writer 


tE$ii ~
GYROS 
The Saint Mary's soccer team 
Grand Opening Specials are: 
will be travelling to St. Joseph's 
Gyro Sandwich ...••.............................•........... $2.75
College on Sunday with hopes of improving its stellar 3-0-1 
1/4 Pound Cheeseburger .•.....•..•....•.•...•....•.. $0.99 
record. The Belles will be play­
2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries.•.••.....••.$1.99
ing the Division II school with the boost in confidence they got 
1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner ..................... $3.49 
from winning the Wooster 
Rib Tip Dinner ................•..................•.......... $4.75 
College Tournament last week­end. 
21 Shrimp Dinner .•..•..•••.•..•..•...•.......•..........• $3.79 
A win in this game would 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw 
prove that Saint Mary's soccer can play competitively with 
and garlic bread) 
best teams in the area and the 
Show Student JD and get a free 16 oz. drink with your
nation. The team will rely on a 
purchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t~
strong defense led by senior co­captain Kelly Cook and an ag­gressive offense with senior co­
: : : : : : : : : : N:ew:tocat!On:is now open : : : : : : : : : : : 
captain Greer Gilliland, junior 
~~ P~x~~ W~Y. ~Qrpi, ~QS~~~4 Ne~t:tq ~9~~~ay ~Jin:27~-Q~
Stacy Winget and sophomore Megan Dalsaso. 
· · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive ...Tluu · · · · · · · · · The next home game for the 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : H:ow-5: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
Belles is on Tuesday, September 
:MQn~'{h:urs:tJ:(JQ-~1;09: I:r~-$~tJ.~~l::Z.::oQ : $U:n:tJ:9Q-~O;op:
24 at 4 p.m. at Goshen College. 
Friday, September 20 , 1991 

SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Any graduate student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at 4:30 
p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 
•The NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30 
p.m. and Sunday 6 to 8 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6: to 8 p.m. and Saturday 10 to 12. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
•For anyone Interested In trying out for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at 3 
p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5 311. 
•Men's 
and women's lnterhall football schedules can be picked up at the RecSports office. 

•ND 
Rowing Club: Anyone interested in being a novice coach should call Pete at 271-8466. Also all varsity and alumni rowers are reminded that Alumni Row is this Saturday. Mass is at 9:00 at the boathouse, with races and a cookout to follow. 

•Ice 
hockey coaches are needed. The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for students who would like to help coach young hockey players form the South Bend area. All those interested should contact Jackie McKew at 256-6839, or write the league office at P.O. Box 490, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

•ND 
Boxing Club: Practice for the Novice Tournament begins Monday, September 23. All interested students are invited to attend. Meet outside the boxing room at 4 p.m. The boxing room is located just inside gate 3 of the J .A.C. C. 

•Want 
to earn some easy money? Rec Sports needs referees for women's flag football, grad/faculty football, and soccer. Pay is $10 per game. For more information or to sign up, call Pete Skiko at 239-6100. 

•Women's 
Ice Hockey: Anyone with or without hockey experience who can skate and is interested in playing should contact Molly at 283-2685. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rugby Team 2-0 takes on Bowling Green Saturday at 11:00. Come and see two top ten midwestteams teams battle it out on Colonel Stephans Pitch. 

•Water 
polo team members must have their insurance forms in by Wednesday, September 25. Everyone must have this done before we can go to the Dayton Tournament on Friday, September 27. 

•The 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do club would like to announce the final schedule for the fall semester. Practice will be Tuesday and Friday from 6 to 7:30 in room 301 Rockne and Sunday from 2 to 3:30 in the Fencing Gym of the J.A.C.C. Beginners are still welcome. Questions, call Lisa at 283-4852. 


I, {f))@(Jjj@jU&J@ &JUU@5~@rtD9 humbly apologize to mi©@®U' ©a J©!JfJ!!D@@rtD for ever doubting 
the superiority of the University of Michigan. I thank him for showing me the error of my ways. 
®@ ~g.(J))~ggg 
Specials Every Nite

Bring in this ad and get 
Live Bands
$1.00 off on any 
Thurs.-Sun

burger combo. 
With Sun. Being 
1 0 Dart Boards 
Jam Nite 


EARLY BIRD SPECIAL 5-7 pmDr. Hook Sept. 24th Prime Rib $4.95 

Ending with Corn and Home of the famousSausage Roast stuffed sandwiches $4.25
Sept. 28th. $3.00 plate Enjoy the Food & Sandwiches & Appt.
Watch the NO Game 
Every Nite from open to close 

Owned and operated by NO Alumni M-Thur 3-1 1516 N. Ironwood Fri. 2-3:30 South Bend Sat. 11:00-3:30 233-7747 Sun. 12:00 -12:30 
Ji 
page 19 

Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer 
NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED 
P.E. PYROS! 
2 NAVY GA'S 
CALL KRIS@ x3474!!!!1!!!!!!1!!!1111!1 

Blue Division up for grabs 
P.E. PYROS!
Class 
continued from page 15 
'''LIVE MUSIC ••• 
Fieldhouse Mall Today Campus Musicians 
Personalize this, BABY!!!!! I!!!!!! 
Run for cover I Elena Quirk turns 20 tomorr and the love cave will rock tonight! HAPPY BIRTHDAY ELENA!!! 
CAMP LEWIS 'guranteed: no poison ivy' 
JOB 
Happy 1 year. I Love You. KT 
TODAY IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP FOR THE LYONS' VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT-CALL 283-2894 
Aimo-"Did anyone happen to see a...a nose?" 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quo 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE Lessons and information 288-4919 
Arthur-l'm looking forward to a hot Knight Saturday Let's ressurect the ice cubes ... Hopefully, this time you won't get BBs. I jus· have one question, Can you come oH a H.J? Jeanne 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Eastern time. Train and ju'T the same day. Modern equipment and trainu; programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
NEED : ride to Purdue or W. Lat. FriJSat. Sept. 20/21 will help pay for gas call 4943 Karen 
Just think baby, it was one year ago tomorroY. when you fell for the "aren't you uncomfortable in those oants" line. 
IRISH ACCENT wishes to congratulate its newest members: M. Emma Bellis, Laura Considine, Jill Jones, and Mike Clooman. A special thanks to everyone who came out and auditioned. Our first meeting will be Monday at 6:30 in Walsh. 
O'B 
Boy am I glad you went lor my hand that KNIGHT! Since everyone else said "no," I guess you 
got stuck with me. If you don't mind, I'm just going to go to the washroom and forget the whole thing ever 
happened. 
HEY IL NVY-274!! We showed you a full moon on 1-80, but have yet to see your parts. Let's not beat around the bush! 
• WA 257-BHQ 
P.S Developed the pictures yet? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MATIMEKO, YOU STALLION! 
with undying devotion, the P.E. girts 
Sign up today for the Lyons' Volleyball tournament!!! Cafl283-2894 
The lizard king needs to get a life. 
The lizard king truly is a "king." Of what, you ask. Well, the lounge is key. 
r----------------------------. 
Back to Cool 
When Thste Matters 
Make the creamy, delicious 
taste of Colombo Frozen 
Yogurt part of your 
curriculum. 
YOGIS YOGURT
• 
BUY ONE LARGE COLOMBO, 
GET ONE SMALL FOR FREE. 
Not valid with any other promotional offer. Limit one per customer. 
No expiration date Coupon redeemable only at: 
Yogis Yogurt 17911 State Rd. 23 (across from old Martin's) 
-·--------------------­
"Yogis Yogurt" is offering student discount cards good for 15% discount on all purchases. To get your card, stop by the store location listed below. 
(Across from old Martin's) and 1st Source Bank 
17911 State Rd. 23 
NE Corner. Ironwood 
277-4337 
We deliver Mon., Tues., Thurs. 
SPARKY SAYS: GET FIRED UP! GOPYAOS! 
P.E. PYROS! 
OFF CAMPUS VIDEO "New Releases· 
-Pop, Pop Goes the Weasel 
Starring John "Holmes· O'Brien 
See him at his finest hour ... 
a lean, mean dancing machine. 
A lover, a dancer... See all of him--tighty whities and all. Live this weekend at Campus View Cinemas 
To see his tight buttocks is to love them. 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
'NEW MOVIES' 
-Awakenings -Dances With Wolves -Edward Scissorhands -New Jack City -Home Alone 
'SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES' 
-Basement of the Stud. Center 4:00-7:00p.m. 7DAYSAWEEK 
I love the Lizard King, especially with yogurt on top. 
Seriously JOB The past year has been awesome. Sometimes I don't know how I put up with you or you me, but as Sara said ... Thanks for all your love and support. U A the best. 
To Mel and Fran... Missing your ... You know where to look. Always watch your backside. To Keith and Murph ... Gone fishing lately? 
Caught anything good, like... Lovingly yours, The Sperm Bank Mothers 
By ELAINE J.C. DEBASSIGE 
Sports Writer 
The Blue league is full of teams with experienced defenses. However, only Farley, Knott and P.E have returning quarterbacks. A preview of the Blue league: 
FARLEY 

Farley jumps into the season with some confidence. They will try and improve on last year's 4-1 record. 
The Finest have a lot of ex­perience on their team and are reassured by the presence of their senior quarterback, Laura Sommerled. 
Other teams will have to watch out for the quick defense. Lewis will be Farley's first test on Sunday. 
LEWIS 

Lewis has could run into some trouble this year with an inexperienced offense. The Chickens will turn to junior quarterback, Kristen Kirwan to guide them through their season. 
"Kristen has good field vi­sion." said coach Mike Morelli. 
The Chicken defense is strong and will be headed by senior linebacker J.B. Hayes. 
PASQUERILLA EAST 
P.E.  is  loaded  with  
motivated freshmen.  Junior  
Aimee  Nocera  and  senior  

Christine Hollbmek bring a lot of leadership and experience to the Pyros. 
John P. O'Malley 
• 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
1llllitOIS • IIIOIANot. 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 2191288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
~ A A A A A A A A A A A llS,'S;AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
AAAAAAAAAAAA A AAAAAAAAAA 
A A A A A A A A A A A A ' A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
:..:..:..:..:..:..:--:Stt"'"'..... .. ,.. ...~ .....:f:,."... :S~l,....3::..:..:...:..:....
ttl: ...~G 

AAAAAAA A A AI\ A AA AAAAAA AAAAAAAA AA ... AAAAAAA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
...,."'.,.F ,....... ........ N..,. "ER.....HA..."' ,...,.. ....."',."",.
AA 4 AA A A A A
AA A AAA 
AA AA AA AA A AA AA AA AAA AA A A ,. AA AA A A A AAA 
AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 4 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 4 4 4 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
A A A A A A ,. A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A


""P"IT:
AAAAAAAAAAAAAA A AAAAAAAAAAAAAA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A .A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
A A A A A A A A A AA:ff ~ ~ t!W~ A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A
A A A A A A A A A A A ~fA A A A A A A A A 
A9(lm~
A A A A A A A A A A ~ .~A A A A A A A A AAAAAAAAAI\AAA A A .A.A.IIoAAAAAAAA 
::::::::=:R-egaril:JesS::ot=outc..ome=:::::::::.. 
:A:A:A:A:A:A:A:A.tLAii:A~~~~~1~ir~~~~t:A:A:A:A:A:A:A:JioA 
A A A A A A A A ... A A A A A A A A
1:\t.[ -4.:,1"1£, ....,.,-..v•.::iJ..UJ:WJ..l:""" 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 4 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
Cool Beans! 
ennifer Tilghman 
is TOTALLY going to be 18! Happy Birthday , JT! 
Love, 
Your cha-cha partner forever, Karen 
The team is basically 
rebuilding this season. 
"We have a dedicated 
group of people playing." said 
captain Nina Delorenzo. 
P.E. opens their season with 
P.W. at Cartier this Sunday. 
PASQUERILLA WEST 
P.W will try to better their last year's semi-final ap­pearance.. 
"We look forward to seeing them develop by the end of the season." said coach Chip Malin. 
P.W.'s offense will be directed 
by first year quarterbacks 
Bethany Riddle and Eileen Mee. 
Speed will be key with the 
Weasles quick backfield of 
Jenny Tate, Tanya Peters, and 
Bridget Graham. 
Defensively, the players to be­ware are Kristin Gafert, Carrie Coit, Jen Mee, and others. 
SIEGFRIED 

Siegfried is returning a tal­ented squad, but most of their team is comprised of new faces. Freshman quarterback, Marce McNeil will do her best in leading the team this season. 
Seigfried kicks off its season Sunday against Knott. 
KNOTT 

The Angels have gotten off to a slow start this year, but should be ready for their opener against Siegfried on Sunday. 
Knott hopes to improve upon a disappointing 2-3 record last year. Players to watch are Ruth Kmak, Lisa Miller, and Paula Black. 
Smith 
continued from page 24 
down, beating All-American cornerback Lance Dottin for a 35-yard score. 
"He runs very good routes, he's been gifted with speed, and he utilizes his speed in his routes, and he's improved his hands," says Holtz. 
Smith honed his speed run­ning track in high school. After running on the state champi­onship 4x100-m relay team his junior year, Smith rmished sec­ond in the state in the 110-m hurdles his senior year. 
"Running the hurdles defi­nitely helped me as far as my agility and keeping my bal­ance," Smith says. "It really helped my flexibility. It helped me to stay flexible ... 
The chief reason Smith has had so many. passes coming his way is that he runs sharp routes and knows how to get open, but that doesn't come without a great deal of prac­tice. 
"He has developed over the years a very good work habit, which he did not have his spring semester his sophomore year, but at the same time he hadn't played much. Sometimes that makes a difference. All of sudden, you start to get on the field your work habits start to improve a little bit. He's doing things the right way," Holtz says. 

Wrik': ¥0UTH EXCHANGE Pueblo. Colontdo 81009 

page 20 The Observer Friday, September 20, 1991 
Braves win, but remain half game back; LA beats Astros on Strawberry homer 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -David Justice singled home the go­ahead run in the 1Oth inning and the Atlanta Braves beat the San Diego Padres 4-2 Thursday night to remain one-half game behind Los Angeles heading into their weekend showdown. 
The Braves, trailing the Dodgers by one-half game in the NL West, begin a three­game series Friday night in Los Angeles. Last weekend, the Braves won two of three in Atlanta against the Dodgers. 
I 
In the lOth, Lonnie Smith singled ofT Craig Lefferts (1-6) and first baseman Fred McGriff's double error on Vmny Castilla's bunt put runners on second and third. Terry Pendleton was intentionally. walked, Justice singled and Ron Gant followed with a sacrifice fly. 
Mark Wohlers (2-1) survived a bases-loaded jam in the ninth, getting Tom Lampkin on an in­ning-ending groundout. Alejandro Pena fmished for his lOth save. 
Dodgers 4, Astros 3 
LOS ANGELES -Darryl
dl 
:}· Strawberry hit a two-run homer 
I ' 
\ in the first inning and Los Angeles held Houston Astros for its fourth consecutive victory. 
Kevin Gross (10-10) allowed two runs and three hits in seven innings, struck out six and walked two. Tim Crew got two outs and Roger McDowell fin-


Stadium 
0 
Q JACC 
0 
E i n 

-/ 
4waystJ' 
i 
Sf} 
1150 Mishawaka Ave
\ j 
!1 ~ 
ished for his seventh save, striking out Ken Caminiti in the eighth with two outs and the bases loaded. 
Mark Portugal (10-9) gave up four runs and six hits in seven innings. 
Pirates 5, Cardinals 1 
PITTSBURGH -Pinch-hitter Curtis Wilkerson's grand slam capped a five-run ninth inning. Pittsburgh cut its magic number to four, increasing its lead in the NL East to 12 112 games, its largest since Sept. 16, 1972. 
Rookie Omar Olivares (9-6) two-hit shutout into the ninth, but Cecil Espy and Bobby Bonilla singled, and Barry Bonds hit an RBI groundout ofT Bob McClure. Lee Smith relieved with the bases loaded and Wilkerson hit his first home run since April29, 1989. 
Stan Belinda (7-5) pitched a perfect ninth in relief of John Smiley, who allowed six hits in eight innings. 
Giants 4, Reds 1 
SAN FRANCISCO-Cincinnati, the defending World Series champion, was pushed to the brink to elimination as San Francisco scored three runs in the eighth, helped by squeeze bunts from Dave Anderson and Jose Uribe. 
With the score tied 1-1 in the eighth, Willie McGee doubled, Robby Thompson was hit by a pitch from Randy Myers (6-13) and Kevin Bass walked. Anderson broke the tie with a bunt to Myers, whose wild throw home enabled Thompson to score for a 3-1 lead. Uribe's successful squeeze capped the rally. 
Francisco Oliveras (6-5) pitched a scoreless eighth and Dave Righetti finished for his 24th save as the Giants won their fifth straight. 
Mariners 10, Royals 5 
SEATTLE-Ken Griffey Jr. hit his AL-leading third grand slam of the season and the Seattle Mariners rallied for six runs in the sixth inning Thursday night, beating the Kansas City Royals 10-5. 
Kevin Appier took a 5-l lead into the sixth, but the Mariners chased him with four consecutive hits, including a two-run double by Dave Valle. Griffey capped the inning with his 21st homer, a drive off Tom Gordon (9-12). The Mariners had five hits in the inning and sent 10 men to the plate, taking a 7-5lead. 
Alvin Davis added a three-run double in the eighth off Storm Davis, giving him four RBis. 
Rookie Dave Burba (1-2) got his first big league victory, pitching 1 2-3 innings of one-hit relief. Bill Swift pitched two innings for his 14th save. 
Alvin Davis' RBI double gave the Mariners a 1-0 lead in the third, but Danny Tartabull hit a two-run homer in the fourth, his 29th. 


\·I fi and fi MUSIC specializing in CD s. imports & \ hard-to-finds. issued a frn catalog. Send SASE for youn. A&fi. PO Box 369. Keansburg. H) 07714 
FOR ALL STUDENTS AND ALUMNI! 
1966 N.D. VS. MICH. ST. REUNION AT ...... 
THE CLASSIEST NIGHTCLUB IN SOUTH BEND. 
.·_',i 
75 , SPECIALS Af,l, WEEKEND DOORS OPEN AT 8:ooPM 
PARTY WITH 1987 CO-CAPTAIN-ALL
I 
I 
I t 
AMERICAN CHUCK LANZA AND MANY 
j ) 
OTHER FORMER N.D. PLAYERS! 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN. 
288-0285 
Kansas City scored three runs in the sixth on rookie Tim Spehr's first big league homer, George Brett's sacrifice fly and Tartabull's RBI single. 
Rangers 10, Angels 3 ARLINGTON, Texas-Nolan Ryan outpitched Chuck Finley for his 313rd career victory Thursday and the Texas Rangers beat the California Angels 10-3 in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Ryan (11-6) struck out seven in six innings. He allowed three runs on six hits while working in a light mist and 63-degree weather. Ryan is just one victory away from tying Gaylord Perry for 13th on the all-time win list. 
Finley (17 -9) lasted only four innings, yielding five runs on six hits and six walks. 
Texas got the go-ahead runs in the ftfth when Finley walked Julio Franco and Ruben Sierra. 
r••••••••••••··~ 
I I I I I I 
.. I 

lilt's big, it's fresh and It's~~~~-~~~~-si;~-~i-ne!-S=~:~·s .. 1 6" Cold Cut Combo 1s filled with meat, cheese and your I lcho1ce of free fixin's, on bread baked fresh nght in the store. I =ome on 1n for a fill-up today! I 
I Good at all f!'."iiJ ;l'Jf;NJ Good at all I
I South Bend //It,.,~~~ L. / South BendI Locations 1 ~, 7 ·,Y~. Locations I 
_..•••••••••••••••1 
I $1.00 OFF I 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong sandwich. I 1 Limit five footlong sandwiches. I 1 This offer is not good in combination with I any other offer. Good at all South BendI Subway locations. Offer expires 10/15/91. I 
I ~Oil) ;{l]lifti I 


~--·············1
I $3.29 FOOTLONG 1 
I Purchase any regular footlong· for only I 1 $3.29 with the purchase of any size II Coca-Cola soft drink at regular price. 
This offer is not good in combination with 1I any other offer. Good at all South Bend 11 Subway locations. Offer expires 10/15/91. I 
I ~11J;l!Y:WJ I
1••·············-­
They pulled off a double steal and Juan Gonzalez hit a two-' run single. 
The Rangers staked Ryan to a 3-1 lead with single runs in the first, third and fourth innings but the Angels came back to tie it. 
Rafael Palmeiro doubled in the first inning and scored on consecutive wild pitches by Finley. A walk, groundout, and Franco's single scored a run in the third. 
In the fourth, Dean Palmer hit his ninth homer of the year and first homer since Aug. 10. 
The Angels scored in the third on a double by Luis Polonia and Wally Joyner's single. California scored twice in the fifth on RBI singles by Dave Gallgher and Dave Winfield. 
Sierra hit a two-run double during a four-run sixth, making it 9-3. Kevin Reimer hit his 18th home run of the season in the eighth. 

~~------~--~~------~---------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 20, 1991 The Observer page 21 
U.S. searching for even greater home court advantage in Davis Cup 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­
Boris Becker's pullout from the Davis Cup may have been the best thing for the German team, given the U.S. team~s plot to maximize its home-court ad­vantage with a $40,000 invest­ment. 
That's how much the United States Tennis Association paid to haul in tons of crushed red brick from Florida and set up an indoor clay court just as slow as America's top players, Jim Courier and Andre Agassi, like for the semifinals series starting today. 
Courier edged Agassi in a grueling five-setter on a similar court in the French Open final this year, and they're both pleased to be cheering for each other this time on a surface perfect for their baseline styles. 
But with Becker out because of a leg injury sustained at the 
U.S. Open, the court strategy could backfire. His replace­ment, Carl-Ewe Steeb, is a baseliner better suited than Becker to the long rallies that clay demands. 
How slow will the court be? 
"That depends on how much we water it tonight," Courier quipped Thursday as the Americans straddled the line between good sportsmanship and clever gamesmanship. 
Just as baseball teams sometimes give an extra sprin­kling to the hasepaths to slow down base-stealing opponents, so might the USTA dampen the chances of Germany's serve­and-volley master Michael Stich. 
The slower the better for Agassi, who faces Stich, the Wimbledon champion, in the first best-of-5-sets match Friday. Courier follows against Steeb. 
A doubles match will be played Saturday, and two sin­gles matches are scheduled on Sunday, with the winner going to the final in November against the winner of this weekend's France-Yugoslavia match. 
The idea of bringing in red clay was inspired in part by Courier's and Agassi's success in the French Open, and in part by the earlier prospect of facing Becker and Stich, whose styles are more suited to hard courts or indoor carpets. 
Courier heat Stich in the semifinals on the red clay at Roland Garros in Paris and 
Agassi heat Becker in the same round, both in four-set matches. 
Though these matches will be played indoors at the Kemper Arena, and though red clay is as foreign in these parts as haute couture, the Americans decided to play on clay just as they did when they beat Australia on a makeshift court in the Davis Cup final last year. 
In the second round this year against the clay court special­ists from Spain, the U.S. team pulled a switch, choosing to play on grass at Newport, R.I., with a completely different squad: John McEnroe, Brad Gilbert, Rick Leach and Jim Pugh. 
Court surface aside, America's Davis Cup team this weekend represents the coming of age of Courier and Agassi as top players on an equal plane and playing on the same side for the first time. 
Once teen-age rivals at Nick Bollettieri's bang-from-the­baseline tennis academy in Florida, they are putting aside for the moment any lingering animosity from those days or from their French Open final. 
"We both have true respect for each other as players," said Courier, ranked No. 3 in the world behind Stefan Edberg and Becker after reaching the 
U.S. Open final. 'I'm certainly glad to have him on my side this week. As he said, and I back him up, he's playing about the best tennis I've ever seen him play. I feel I'm playing some pretty good tennis, too." 
Agassi said he was "mentally and emotionally fatigued" going into the U.S. Open after a summer of illness and was not as prepared as he should've been when he lost in the first round to Aaron Krickstein. 
"My early exit was really a blessing in disguise," he said, noting that he took the next two weeks off to practice, reassess his game and regain his confidence. He talked with John 
· McEnroe and said he's thinking about working with him or an­other top player to raise his game a notch, rather than just working under the tutelage of Bollettieri. 
"I might need a little bit more than just hitting tennis balls and getting stronger," said Agassi, who has beefed himself up "a good 25 pounds stronger" than he was in early 1990. 
For the moment, though, he's 
satisfied with his current level 
of play. 
"To be honest, I don't think 
rve played better," he said of 
his recent practices. ''I'm now 
hitting the ball well. I'm fresh, 
rested and excited to play 
again." 
He described his whole er­
ratic year, in which he dropped 
from No. 4 to No. 7 in the 
rankings, as a "hit and miss 
thing," and said, "there's defi­
nitely a sense of concern but no 
sense of panic." 
"I don't want to overdrama­
tize it," he said, "but this will be 
a big step for me if I can help 
win the Davis Cup" 
Unlike last year, when Agassi 
seemed aloof from the rest of 
the U.S. Davis Cup team, he and 
Courier have spent a lot of time 
together on the court and off. 
And Courier concurred with 
Agassi's assessment of his 
recent progress. 
"He's playing with a lot of ·confidence," Courier said. "He's 
taking the ball really earJy and 
hitting the ball really clean, and 
he's serving better. When 
Andre's doing all those things, 
he's really difficult to beat." 
Sept 20-21 lOam-8pm ~® RISH Jewelry, Sweaters, Music, Sweatshirts-T's and GREATER COLUMBUS Items CONVENTION CENTER 400 NORTH HIGH STREET COLI.J"MBUS, OHIO 43215 (614) 461·0346Or call us from home -We ship U .P .S. FAX <614) 224-3054  
Look Who's Got The Best Deals On Campus! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $ 99ONE TOPPING ADDITIONALPIZZA SECONDPIZZA TOPPINGS$4 MORE! AVAILABLE LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE TWO SMALL 99$Man cannot live by football alone. PEPPERONI Call Domino's Pizza: ADDITIONAL TOPPINGSPIZZAS AVAILABLENO,-fRE DAME ST. MARY'S OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REOUIRED. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. 'tklivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 271-0300 289-0033 1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave.  

.! 



page 22 . The Observer Friday, September 20, 1991 
Lady linksters to Lansing for Invite 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
If history repeats itself, it should be a Vefy successful weekend for the Notre Dame women's golf team as they travel to East Lansing for Michigan State's annual 
l 
) Spartan Fall Invitational. It will be difficult for coach Tom Hanlon's team to improve on last year's outstanding showing at Michigan State. In the first two rounds of the tournament, the Irish fired back-to-hack school records of 322 and 316 before a final round 333 left the team in sixth place at 971 against one of the strongest fields they faced all season. "That was the best we've ever done in terms of score and placement among the stronger teams," said Hanlon. Senior captain Allison Wojnas led the Irish last weekend with a three round total of 247 and she will have to repeat that performance if the team hopes to contend at Michigan State. Sophomores Chrissy Klein and Alicia Murray, who each fin­ished last weekend's 54-hole event at 252, will also have to continue their outstanding play if the Irish are to be successful. Sophomores Denise Paulin and Jennifer Nigon and freshman Kathleen Cooper will round out the Irish lineup. Defending champion Penn State highlights a strong field that includes host Michigan State, Iowa, Illinois State, Northern Illinois, Nebraska and Purdue among many others. Hanlon realizes that the team is fa~inl! quite a challenge this weekend, but he is confident that the Irish will respond. "They have a good attitude and they're becoming more and more confident in their play each week," he noted. Only two more fall tourna­ments remain on the team's schedule. The Irish will travel to "champaign, Illinois for the Lady Northern Invitational hosted by the University of Illinois next weekend, followed by the Northern Illinois University Invitational in DeKalb, Illinois on October 4-5. 
Men headed to Cincy· 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team travels to Cincinnati, Ohio this weekend to compete in the 36-hole University of Cincinnati Invitational. 
I 
The team is coming off a third-place rmish at last week­end's Indiana Intercollegiate! Golf Championships played on j Purdue University's South 
Course, finishing just three
I 
strokes behind champion Purdue and one shot behind second-place Ball State. 
Notre Dame's Chris Dayton led the way for the Irish, fmish­ing tied for first place at 142 after rounds of 69 and 73. Brad Chesterman of Purdue de­feated Dayton on the first play­off hole to earn medalist honors. · Junior Joe Dennen was just 
· one shot otT the pace with a 36­hole total of 143. Mike Crisanti was next for the Irish, firing rounds of 75 and 72 to finish tied for lOth at 147. 
Captain Mike O'Connell recovered from a disappointing 83 in the first round with a second round 74, good enough to earn him a tie for 33rd place at 157. Jay Johnstrud rounded out the Irish lineup with a 159 total to tie for 37th place. 
Eagles land at ACC for weekend volleyball match 
By RENE FERRAN noon before closing their brief Associate Sports Editor stay with a Tuesday night match with Illinois State. Notre Dame rides sky high
Mter three weeks away from into this weekend's matches, the friendly confines of the having won the Southwest Joyce ACC, the Notre Dame vol­Missouri State Classic last leyball team returns home for a Saturday with a five-set victorytwo-game homestand. over the host Bears. Along the 
The Irish (5-1) open with way, the Irish knocked off 14th­Boston College this Sunday at ranked Ohio State in three 

Junior Marilyn Cragin and senior Katie Kavanaugh go forthe block against Illinois last year. The Irish will meet BC this weekend. 
Ride Here I Available for lease during 91-92 school year. One quality thoroughbred hunter. This horse is safe and has won the local medal classes. Call Chris Kerner at 
~~~ 
• I~OibsOF~~ 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /REDUCE 

• 
ICARIAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS • ~S CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR (ADDITIONAL) 


©&ill11 ~®W 2~~ 
M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM 
0. SAT 8:00 AM -6:00 PM SUN 12:00 PM· 4:00 PM 
POWERHOUSE GYM • 130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 
games in one of their biggest matches of the season. 
"One of the goals we set in the preseason was to target a few teams that we wanted to focus on and felt like we had a chance to beat. Ohio State was one of them," said Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown. 
Sophomore setter Janelle Karlan, with her 15 kills, 23 digs and four aces, was named MVP of the tournament, while three other Irish players-se­nior Chris Choquette and ju­niors Alicia Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn-were named to the all-tournament team. 
"I've said from the beginning that it's important for us that Janelle play well for us, " Brown said. "She blocked well, she served well, and her win­ning MVP honors says a lot for the way she's been playing and developing. 
"(But) Alicia continues to be our steadiest performer. She passes very well, and that doesn't show on any stat sheet. She's been a stabilizing force for the team." 
Now, though, the Irish turn their thoughts to the Eagles (2­3), a team which has struggled early and comes into South Bend without one of its top 
~Ball!~ .~~?.!!eiHe~s~ 

• Holiday Stuff • Decorating 
• Dee jay Service o Singing Telegrams 
Party Planning From The Smallest To The Largestl EverythlnJimagfnable for Partfesl 
271.,.. 556 (~~~1~~:ci~.)
J South Bend, IN 46637 
****** WE DEUVER ****** 
-_· i Gladieux. 
. _I TRAVEL -­
Notre Dame's ·~eading ground gainer of 1968 ha!=: gone to the air with International Specialist lndeborg Hildegard 

Faculty. Staff. Students 
Lowest Available Fares Guaranteed Free Delivery and No Service Charge Call and com pare 8:00AM-5:00PM MON -FRI 10:00AM -1:00PM SAT 
234·6636 

1518 Miami St. SOUTH BEND 46613 1-800-837-4523 

players. Senior outside hitter Alison Glovna, who leads Boston College with 49 kills, has a knee injury which likely will keep her out of action on Sunday. . 
"Boston College is a fairly young team," Brown said. "They are not a traditional power in the Big East, but they're a respectable team." 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, has jumped out to its best start ever. 
"We're a bit ahead of where I had anticipated we'd be," Brown noted. "Looking at our schedule, the teams we were playing, I thought we could start off well, but I didn't think we'd be 5-1 at this point. 
"The thing that has been most pleasing to me has been that we've gotten behind in matches or games against good teams and have been able to come back and win. 
Notes: Sunday's match has been moved up from its original 
2:00 p.m. starting time. The match will begin at noon ... Turner, an Irish co­captain, leads the team in kills (79), digs (74), attack percent­age (.227) and is tied with fel­low co-captain Choquette in service aces (7). 

-.L_-~-----------­

Friday, September 20, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
•

THE FAR SIJE GARY LARSON SPB.UNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

wilo: HA~I( SPt:WNKa WHKf: h'EI4HT UFTJN6:Z W~£.: 1]£ ROCK.,_ 
lliii€.N:'f'JOW 

Wti'(:ia ~ fl·~"'<" 
C'MON, HANK, '/OJ CAN Do If' 

GiA 0! llfiS IS Ttl£ NOW I TltlloiK I'M U!Sf 11M€ I READY TO TRY rr Vot..ONlEER To wmt SoME k.EiCsllff SoMEONE... 
ON nt£ BAR. 

~ 
Herb must leave his home in the country every I spring when the rarmers apply herbicides. l 

~ 
l 


''A LANDMARK PSYCHOLOGICAL TIIRILLER!' 
-Irrnoo 'con. ll'l 
~*****·HEART-STOPPING, HAIR-RAISING, BREATII-TAKING St:SPE:'iSE." 
. '\d\ bJUa.ln. \l\(nnn 
•auu• '' IJ't' •• 1h '''tl '" '• rcu'h' '' STEPHD ~1\G liLLIU GOLD~.\\ 
)\US C.\.\\ 
51 Presently

43 See 16, 25, 42 or 55 Across 52 Despot 
MENU

44 Bathroom 53 Grommet flooring 54 Snake eyes at a 
Saint Mary's

45 Incorrect casino Notre Dame 48 The formal se "-My Party," 
Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwict 
Batter Fried Fish

request Lesley Gore hit 
Tunafish Casserole 

48M 57 F-J connection Tacos
Shepherds Pie Veal Parmasean

50 Kind of hairdo sa Employ 
Vegetable Eggrolls 
Deli Bar 

Answers to any three clues in this 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
minute). 
... 

TONIGHT & SATURDAY 8 & 10:30 P.M. CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION $2 
... 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
n Body units 18 Speedy 22 Incite 23 It's between zwei and vier 24 A Peron and a Gabor 25 Railroad magnate Chauncey-­28 University of Maine site 27 Famed name in auto racing 28 Kind of house or hand 
29 Modern Persian 
30 Auctioneer's word 
31 Actor in "Earthquake": 1974 
36ANew Zealander, informally 
37 You were, to Cato 38 Nautical meal 40 Icelandic sagas 41 Bosh 

CROSSWORD 
CAMPUS 
Friday

63 Descant
ACROSS 35Mail 36 Military caps 64 Saharan areas 
1 Infant 
10 a.m. '"The Challenge of Education," Center for So­
38Armor
5 Brainstorm cial Concerns. Sponsored by the College of Business Ad­
39 Chemical suffix 
DOWN
tBog ministration.
40 Gaels' republic13 Land measure 
1 Spa in England
41 Hair-dye color
14Cow 2 Relative of a 7 p.m. Pep Rally in the JACC, Basketball Dome. 
42 Part of a formal 15 Harem rooms 
twinge
request
11 Part of a formal 3 Poke on a 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. "The Grifters," Annenberg Audi­
46 Prepare for
request bonnet torium. Sponsored by ND Department of Communication
publication
19 Border 4 Affirmative 
and Theatre. 
47 Annoys
20 Recedes 5-­
48 Lasso
21 Also-ran pentameter 7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing . Club House, Saint Mary's
51 N.L. batting
22 Others, to (kind of verse)
champion: 1966 College.
Cicero &Club 
52 Among, in ltalia 
assessments
23 Hart 
8 and 10:30 p.m. "Misery," Cushing Auditorium.
55 Part of a formal
25 Part of a formal 7 Printers' 
request Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
request measures 59 One that eats: 
32 Sea eagles BOne--time 
Comb. form Saturday
33 Bog fuel 1 Tours 
60 Leather strap 
10 Bad time for
34 Down Under 
&1 Sensible 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. "The Grifters," Annenberg Audi­
marsupial, for Caesar 
short &21ndigent 11 Steak order torium. Sponsored by ND Department of Communication 12 Title of respect: and Theatre. Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Author of "The 8 and 10:30 p.m. "Misery," Cushing Auditorium. Longhorns" Sponsored by Student Union Board. 

Sports 
page 24 Friday, September 20, 1991 
Hard work and patience finally pays dividends for Tony Smith 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

With age comes wisdom, and good things come to those who wait. 

Those two sayings are used too much, and have lost most of their impact, but the truths contained in them still hold true. Just ask Tony Smith. 
The 6-2, 191-lb., split end came to Notre Dame as an honorable mention all-stater at Roosevelt High School in Gary, Ind., but going to a school like Notre Dame with All-Americans and all-staters everywhere you turn can be an overwhelming situation. 
Unless, of course, you take a positive outlook, and get the most out of it. 

"It's hard as a freshman, but it was also good for me to go through that transition from high school to college and get used to being here," says Smith. 
"I learned a lot of things my freshman year, it was a good learning period for me. I got stronger, I was in the weight room a lot. I wouldn't say it hurt me at all, if anything it helped me." 
Playing on the scout squad as freshman, Smith got to play against top-flight defensive backs like George Streeter, Corny Southall and Stan 
Smagala, an opportunity that is
) 
still paying dividends. 

"Most of those guys are in the pros now, and I got good work af,!ainst them. so now the 

defensive back's I face on Saturday's, none of them come close to being as good as they were." 
But the real improvement in Smith's game began in the spring of his sophomore year, a move that not coincidently 
I 
Jerome Betitis drives for more yards against Indiana. See Irish Extra for a preview of the MSU game. 
marked the appearance of Skip 

~ 
;. 
Men hope to ignite again against MSU 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
After being held scoreless in the season's first two games, the Notre Dame men's soccer team exploded for a 5-0 win over Central Michigan Wednesday night. 
Coach Mike Berticelli's team will have to continue their dominance on both sides of the ball in order to be successful this weekend. Michigan State visits Moose Krause Stadium tonight at 7:30 pm and 1990

H 
f;' NCAA rmalist Evansville comes to Alumni field at 2:00 pm
i. Sunday afternoon. 
!, 
The Spartans will put a 2-2 
,,.. record on the line tonight against the 1-2 Irish. Junior Steve McCaul and sophomore 
;, 
" 
Doug Cosigny will be the focal points of Notre Dame's defen­),: ' sive attack, which held Central ii Michigan to only two shots on
;: 
goal. McCaul has notched two
"' 
goals and one assist this season 
r. and Cosigny has four assists. 
l :·: ~ Berticelli is pleased with the 
I
r 
1•. offensive output against Central (;-Michigan, but he isn't quite 
.!·"'": 
satisfied with his young team's " emotions on the field. 
' 
'. ; i "We need to improve our 
l : 
composure and .become a little more patient on offense," he commented. 
Notre Dame is 5-2-3 against Michigan State, including a 4-0­1 record at home. The Spartans won last year's match 2-0 in East Lansing. 
After tonight's tough battle with Michigan State, the Irish will have only one day to pre­pare for defending Midwestern Collegiate Conference champion Evansville. The Aces, who fin­ished the 1990 regular season with a 22-0-2 record, have won 17 straight conference games since 1989. With David Weir, the nation's leading goal scorer in 1990, out with an injury, the Aces have fallen to a 2-3-1 record in 1991. 
Despite their misfortune in the early going, the Aces will still be a difficult obstacle for the Irish to overcome. Berticelli, however, believes the motivation and intensity the young team has displayed will carry them through some tough matches. 
..Our players have a great at­titude and commitment," he said. "This group of guys are competitors." 
That competitive spirit will have to come out this weekend if the Irish hope to continue their winning ways against two 
quality teams. 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
Off to its most successful start 
ever at 2-0-2, the Notre Dame 
women's soccer team hopes to 
continue its winning ways this 
afternoon against Michigan 
State at 4 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Irish are coming off a fine 
performance last weekend in 
Cincinnati, Ohio, where they . 
defeated Cincinnati, 4-0, and 
tied Vanderbilt, 3-3. 
The Spartans are entering today's game at 2-2, and are returning 10 starters from last year's team which lost a close 2-1 contest to the Irish. Despite their experience, the offense is led by freshman Karen Winslow, who has scored four goals in her first four games at the coll.egiate level. Another Michigan State scoring threat is sophomore Becky DeWitt. She has scored twice this season. 
The stingy Spartan defense is anchored by junior goalkeeper, Andrea Gerbi, who has recorded two shutouts in the young season. She will be faced with a tough task­shutting down an offense that has scored seven goals in its last two games. 
"The two teams are very even; they match up well," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said, "We tied in the spring so this game should be a difficult one for 
US." 
To win, Notre Dame needs to continue their offensive success-and not commit any mistakes on defense. It was a few mis­takes that cost them a win last Sunday against Vanderbilt, a game in which they outplayed the Lady Commodores. 
"We are expecting a very physical, close game. They al­ways play us we11," said Irish sophomore forward Alison Lester, "We have been playing well one game, and then not so well the next game. We have to start giving 100 percent every game." 
See related story/ Football '91 
Holtz on campus as the re­
ceivers coach. 
That first spring, the new coach and the sophomore re­ceiver sat down and talked about the future. 
"I was honest with him where I felt he stood and where I felt he could go, and he was honest with me, what he felt about what was going on, what he felt was good, what he felt was bad," says Holtz. 
"It was kind of neat. It kind of developed a little bit of trust between the two of us, and a good working relationship." 
The two hit it ofT, even to the point where Smith listed Holtz as his favorite non-sports hero in this year's media guide. 
"Skip and I are real good friends on the field and off," Smith says. "Ever since he's been here, he's always been in my corner. He taught me a lot, showed me a lot ~nd be's al­ways had confidence in me." -Holtz found a responsive pupil. After playing a total of just over 73 minutes his sophomore year, while not starting a single game, Smith emerged as the starter at split end by his junior year. 
Smith logged over 167 min­utes of playing time his junior year while starting all 12 games, posting his best num­bers in the loss to Stanford. He caught five passes for 78 yards and two touchdowns in that contest. 
But it has been this season that Smith has really made his presence felt. Against Indiana he had two catches for 43 yards, and against Michigan he caught five passes for a career­high 121 yards with one touch-
see SMITH/ page19 

Irish hope Spartans don't spoil streak 
Defensively, Notre Dame will be trying to regain the form the shut out three teams prior to the Vanderbilt game. To do so, they will rely on keeper Michelle Lodyga, and the aggressive play of Andrea Kurek and Margaret Jarc. 
•This week in practice, we worked on building out of our defense and finishing the ball on offense," Lester added. 
Both these measures should strengthen the Irish offense, which will be counting on Stephanie Porter, and Lester. 


The Observer/Oave Short 

S~phomore Andrea Kurek chases the ball against Northeast Missouri State last year. The women face MSU this weekend. 


Lf' A Supplement to The Observer 


Irish Footbal-l '91 
page 2 Friday, September 20; 1991 
'AME 11\/FO 

. ::::; 
:::;: . 

_carrying a bigger burden 

Bettis labors to prove self 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
The world's first impression of sophomore fullback Jerome Bettis is, as he puts it in the media guide, "that I'm big and mean." 
He'd be the type that would emulate his hero, Earl Campbell, a runner who "would go around you if he could, put his shoulder into your chest if he wanted to, and be effective either way." 
But there's a whole lot more to Jerome Bettis 
than first impressions would lead you to think. 
..He's a pretty nice guy to just about everyone," said sophomore Bill Siemer, one of his neighbors in Alumni Hall ...He hasn't let football go to his head." 
.. He's got a real unselfish, effervescent personality," said running backs coach Tom Beck. .. He is completely trustworthy, completely dependable." 
Bettis came into Notre Dame last season with a portfolio of honors few could match: Parade All­
rican; rated as one of the top -100 incoming freshmen by six top publications; Gatorade Circle of C.hJl~p~~s Player of the Year for Michigan at ~1:.. .J. -High School in Detroit. 
But Bettis didn't take the campus by storm. An ankle injury hampered his early season progress, and besides, the youngster was adjusting to a ·whole new environment. 
"When I first got here, I didn't know what to expect," said Bettis. "No one that I knew went Ihere, so I knew nothing about this place." 
"I thought he'd be a good player when he came lhere, but the tlrst month, he had a bad ankle, so lwe didn't know (for sure)," said Irish head coach .Lou Holtz. "But near the end of last year, I knew 1he'd be a good player." 
And nothing has stood in his way since. 
Jerome led the Irish in rushing against both 
Indiana and Michigan-against the Hoosiers, he 
picked up a career-high 111 yards on only 11 
carries. At 5-11, 247 pounds, he presents a 
formidable load for opposing defenses to stop. 
"Every time I get the ball, I like to run with it," 
said a grinning Bettis, "but when there is no 
escape, I just lower my shoulder and make 
somebody pay. That way, next time he might not be 
so aggressive " lo~!:!~~tes:~~: ~~:~:e~ttis knows that there is a "I' · h " h "d "I' h
m JUSt a sop om ore, e sat . m now ere 
near as good as I'm capable of being. If I just work 
hard and improve like I should, then everything 
will take care of itself. 
"Wh I eceive criticism, I don't take it in a 
negau:: w:y. I listen to what they say and try to 
correct what I did wrong." 
And "t' th" willin' to liste din to h' 
1 s ts gness n, accor g ts
coaches, that is one of his greatest assets. "He's a ~Y with ability who listens to you and is tru_Iy paymg attention," Beck said...He's always
striving to be better. Some people with his ability 
wouldn't do that." 
But foremost in his coaches' praise is one theme:
J . te l 
erome ts a amp ayer. 
..Number one, he's very much a team man," 
Holtz said...He's as happy blocking as he is run­
ning the football." 
"I think you get more out of football when youknow it's a team effort, when you're not out for yourself, but working as part of a team," Bettis ex­
. . :) plained. 

. . . One of his main duties this year will be picking 
. . up the tough yards in short-yardage situations. The past few seasons, this role has been rtlled by two of the best: Anthony Johnson (now with the Indianapolis ColtS) and senior Rodney Culver, who moved to tailback this season.
While some players might shy away from this ;~=~b~i~~~!,oh.!~~~-Bettis relishes the op-
c~I::. nJ.:~\geg~:7oa~:~~mt~~~ ~r!!~isp~~:oupev~~~ 
Another aspect of the fullback job is blocking, ::?: especially on one of Holtz's favorite plays, t~e : lR option. While Bettis' 111 yards against Indiana 
garnered most of the attention, Beck noted it was his key blocks that sprang quarterback Rick Mirer's 46-yard touchdown run and Culver's 19­
yarder only moments later. ..I feel that I've really improved in my blocking, and it's starting to show," Bettis said. 
..At his stage of development, it's refining the small points, like having a wider base to become a better blocker," Beck said. '"He works hard to 
correct any errors in his technique." For Notre Dame to succeed this season, however, Holtz realizes that he will have to call on option 
see BETTIS 1 page 7 
The Obeerver/Andrew McCloskey Sophomore fullback Jerome Bettis, who emulates Houston Oiler great Earl Campbell, relishes every opportunity he has to prove himself. 


New coach enters Irish ranks 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
From his handshake, it is easy to see why first year running back coach Tom Beck has been so successful in his life. 
He is a man of strength and determination with a knack for making others feel comfortable in his presence. 
The Chicago native made his mark as a player who battled on both sides of the line of scrimmage at Northern Illinois. Playing as a quarterback, half­back, and a defensive back, Beck overcame his size and speed disadvantages with hard work and unparalleled tenacity, earning Most Valuable Player honors after his senior year. 

Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Beck had compiled a 137-52-1 record in 19 years of head coaching. Most recently, he was the head coach at Grand Valley State in Allendale, Mich. 
·captained the Lakers, a team 
that finished 0-10 in 1984, to 
six straight winning seasons. 
He also had the winning touch 
during his eight-year stay at 
Elmhurst (Ill.) College and his 
five-year stay at Illinois 
Benedictine College in Lisle, Ill. 
At Elmhurst, his teams were ranked in the top 1(J for five straight years in Division Ill and amassed a 50-22 record. At Benedictine, he turned around a football program that had not seen a winning season in 19 years and compiled a 37-12-1 
recoroBRAiyN s&a~~wpag~ 
TRIVIA COUNTDOWN &SHOWDOWN 
A panel of experts developed the ultimate fun trivia contest that pits your skill and knowledge against other players here in our place and players all across the country. 
QB1 
For the first time in history, 
you can actually interact with 
live TV football games via 
satellite right here. Compete 
with other players here and 
nationally by anticipating live 
quarterback plays. 
While you're in pick up your free University Club Card 

NIGHTLY SPECIALS • FREE APPETIZERS 
10 Dart Boards Wide Screen lV 

Bring in this ad and get 
$1.00 off on any 
burger combo. 
Dr. Hook Sept. 24th Ending with Com and Sausage Roast Sept. 28th. $3.00 plate Enjoy the Food & Watch the ND Game 

Beck is proud of his college coaching history. All of his teams at the three schools were nationally ranked and led the nation in total offense in their respective divisions. 
"There is a lot of enjoyment in taking a program that was down and lifting it to a position of respectability, .. said Beck. "I enjoy the responsibility and de­cision making involved in being a head coach ... 
Nonetheless, Beck was happy 
to give up a head coaching job for his current position here at Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is a special place. It is tops in college coaching circles," said Beck. 
Right now, he is accepting the challenge of his role as an as­sistant with the same determi­nation and positive attitude he has faced the other challenges in his life. 
"He loves coaching, .. said sophomore fullback Jerome Bettis. "I think he'd rather coach than do anything else. He 
BECK 1 7 

NIGHTS/DE 
Late night trivia contest for Adults Only, guaranteed to put a smile on your face and keep ~ there. 

16599 Cleveland Rd. Granger, IN 
219-272-3672 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-Midnight Fri. & Sat. 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Sunday 11 a.m.-11 p.m. 
Specials Every Nite Live Bands Thurs. -Sun With Sun. Being 
Jam Nite 
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL 5-7 pm Prime Rib $4.95 Home of the famous stuffed sandwiches $4.25 
Sandwiches & Appt. Every Nite from open to close 



MARIGOLD 
MARKET 

J 
lET US PREPARE. YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. so YOU 
CAN ENJOy THE GAME! 
GRAPE. ~ClEVELAND 272·1922 

Irish Football '91 
Friday, September 20, 1991 page3 
Owned and operated by NO Alumni 
M-Thur 3-1  1516 N. Ironwood  
Fri.-2-3:30  South Bend  
Sat. 11:00-3:30  233-7747  
Sun. 12:00 ­ 12:30  


Irish Football '91 
page 4 Friday, September 20, 1991 
A rough introduction 
Darnell looks to improve decision-making in 2nd year 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
Coordinating a defense that allowed an average of 390o:..3 de­fensive yards per game in his first year at Notre Dame pre­sented Gary Darnell with some­thing he had never been accus­tomed to-a lackluster defense. 
Despite a defense that was home to four All-Americas, Darnell believes the players shouldn't be held responsible for last season's defensive woes. 
"The position of coordinator is in lots of ways a management position," said Darnell, in his second year at the helm...I think I made some poor deci­sions at one point last year. We had some problems and we knew we were going to have some problems with the youth of the secondary, but I was re­ally disappointed in the deci­sions I made early in how to deal with the problems." 
With Darnell's experience, it's no wonder that he felt as he did about last year's performance. After holding the position of defensive coordinator at the University of Florida for two years, Darnell was named in­terim head coach, after Galen Hall resigned, for the final seven games of the 1989 sea­son. 
That year, the Gators ranked third nationally in defensive' yards per game. They held the 

Gary Darnell 

same spot in Darnell's first year at Florida. 
Stops prior to Florida included Wake Forest (defensive coordinator and inside linebackers), SMU (linebackers) and North Carolina (linebackers). The 1977 Tar Heel linebackers ranked first in the nation in total defense. 
Darnell snagged his first head coaching position in 1983, beginning a two-year stint with Tennessee Tech. The 42-year­old hopes it wasn't his last permanent head coaching job, but appears content with his current position with the Irish. 
He definitely won't appear on another college campus as any­thing less than a head coach, however. 
'Tve been coaching for 22 years from every angle, every level you can possibly do it at," said Darnell. "I'd like to think that would count for something if someone would need leader­ship in a program. If I felt comfortable with the vision of the particular school, I would welcome the chance at the top. 
I'm at my last college assis­
tant's job. I don't want to be an 
assistant anywhere else other 
than right here and that's all 
there is to it." 
With the loss of former Irish 
defensive coordinator Barry 
Alvarez in 1989 to the head 
coaching position at the 
University of Wisconsin, Darnell received a call from Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz. The decision to leave sunny Florida allowed Darnell to begin what he anticipates will be an even brighter future in South Bend. 
"From an organizational standpoint it was just a chance to learn," said Darnell, who also coaches the inside linebackers. "More than anything it was a chance to compete at the highest level of collegiate athletics. There are no in­betweens about that-we play the most difficult schedule and we ask more out of our players on and off the field than anybody else." 
As defensive coordinator, Darnell plays the role of gath­erer-that is, of information seeker. Combining the ideas of defensive line coach Dick Bumpas, outside linebackers coach Jay Hayes, and secondary 
see DARNELU page 8 
'The tie' marks ND-MSU rivalry 
By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The series stands at 37-18-1. 
But, it was that one tie, 25 years ago, that will linger in the minds of Irish and Spartan sports fans for years to come. 
On November 19, 1966, in East Lansing, Mich., number one Notre Dame met number two Michigan State in what proved to be one of the most controversial games ever. 
l'he Spartans sped out to a 10-0 lead in the second quarter, on a Regis Cavender four yard run and a Dick Kenney field goal. To make matters worse for the Irish, they lost starting center George Goeddeke and quarterback Terry Hanratty to injuries during the game. 
Hanratty suffered a shoulder injury at the hands of Michigan State standout Bubba Smith. 
The Irish came back to domi­nate the second half, as the Notre Dame defense stopped the Spartans for either a loss or no-gain on 16 rushing attempts. Backup quarterback Coley O'Brien led the comeback, connecting on a 34-yard pass to Bob Gladieux for the lone Irish touchdown. 
Notre Dame then drove to the Spartan 10 yard line, but had to settle for a 28 yard field goal by Joe Azzaro. 
Notre Dame had a golden op­portunity to take the lead on a Tom Schoen interception, as Schoen returned it to the Michigan State 18 yard line. On second down, with less than five minutes to go, the Irish gave the ball to halfback Dave Haley who was stopped by Bubba Smith for an eight yard loss. Azzaro then attempted a 42 yard field goal that sailed wide right. 
The controversy came in the last seconds of the game. Notre Dame got the ball at their 30 yard line. With time left for at least four pass plays, Ara Parseghian called for the Irish to run out the clock. 
And that is how it ended, a 10-10 tie, which allowed the Irish to maintain its number one ranking and win a National 
FB 

Jerome Bettis Ryan Mihalko Reggie Brooks 

l.l 

i'
TB Rodney Culver Willie Clark Tony Brooks 
K Craig Hentrich 

Championship. At halftime on Saturday, the 1966 National Championship team will be honored, as approximately 50 players from that team will re­turn to Notre Dame Stadium. 
Last year's matchup was an-

a..i l & !.a lance Johnson 
QB .. Rick Mirer 
Paul Failla --TG Kevin McDougal · . Mirko Jurkovic George Poorman · Mark Zataveski 
. t. iL 

p FL
Craig Hentrich Jim Sexton 


Lake Dawson -­
Adrian Jarrell TE 
Clint Johnson Derek Brown lrv Smith 
il t. ill. 
Oscar McBride 
see HISTORYI page 8 
il 
• 
SE Tony Smilh Ray Griggs William Pollard 
.~QT

•'t'p Undsay Knapp 
~ i&.. 

Todd Norman 
tti/!Ji ~ron Taylor
i~ TimRuddy 
~--~McGuire 

Ll!t2 tt ..c-/..! t:Lzl c.: 
ll!uLzzcL·ict::l L~·cst.:cL· 
Name Pos Ht Wt 2 Saddler, LeShaneCB 5-11 193 2 Lanigan, Craig FB 5-10 187 3 Mirer, Rick** QB 6-2 215 4 Graham, Tracy DB 5-11 183 4 Poorman, George'"'" QB 6-1 191 5 Culver, Rodney••• TB 5-10 226 5 Lalli, Mike CB 5-11 200 6 Bettis, Jerome· FB 5-11 24 7 8 Johnson, Clint FL 5-8 179 9 Burris, Jetr FS 6-0 194 10 Jarrell, Adrian• FL 6-0 194 11 Lozano, Rick TB 5-10 189 12 Failla, Paul QB 6-3 185 12 Guerrera, Jim QB 5-11 175 13 Carter, Tom• CB 5-11 186 13 Johnson, Matt QB 5-10 191 14 Griggs, Ray•• FL 6-1 195 14 Pope, Stephan SS 6-3 196 15 McDougal, Kevin QB 6-2 182 15 O'Neill, Mike FB 5-8 189 16 Sexton, Jim••• P 6-0 189 16 Parenti, Chris QB 5-11191 17 Moscardelli, ChrisSE 6-1174 18 Moriarty, TrevorSE6-1176 19 Swenson, Mark FL 5-8 ~·-...... 
. \ 

20 Scruggs, Martin FL 6-1{192..:<-.m:::'~ 21 Smith, Rod··· CB 6-0 1~.lJJI!~~~J
~jifJf'

21 Leonard, Rob K 6·1 188 ······· 
22~S RB
......:.,,,.,,,.,:,.,.,.,.,;,:;:,...,!an ~.175 22 Augert;·:,~~uiS~:5'10 173 23 Boyd, Walter··•):a 5-1 o204 24 Stafford, Charles DB 6-t 187 24 Bergmann, Jon ILB 6·0 202 25 Moore, laRon RB 5-9 180 26 Davis, Greg••• SS 6-0 204 26 Marsh, Drew K 6·0 191 28 Hentrich, Craig*• KIP 6-1196 29 lane, Greg• CB 5-9 176 30 Smith, Nick•• OLB 6-2 219 31 DuBose, D... ILB 6-2 234 32 Clark, Willie* TB 5·11 1n 32 Donahue, JamesiLB 6-2 209 33 Covington, John*FS 6-1 202 33 Hollister, Chet FS 6-2 186 34 Zellars, Ray RB 6-0 203 34 Meter, Brian CB 5-9 173 35 Mihalko, Ryan••• FB 6-2 232 36 Sample, Jeremy ILB 6-1 205 36 Fuentes, David FB 5-9 198 37 Davis, Travis RB 6-0 180 38 Scianna, Randy ILB 6-0 224 39 Robinson, MarvinCB 5-9 173 40 Brooks, Tony••• TB 6-2 223 41 Brooks, Reggie* TB 5-8 200 42 Becton, Lee RB 5·11 185 44 Flanigan, Jim'" ILB 6-2 243 45 McDonald, D.'"'" OLB 6-4 240 46 Ratigan,Brian'"* ILB 6-5 226 47 Barich, Pete• ILB 6-1.225 48 Farren, John ILB 5-11194 49 Peterson, A.'" OLB 6-1 214 50 Stec, Greg DT 6-3 235 51 Tyner, Stuart OG 6-5 268 52 Holden, Germaine OLB 6-4 240 54 Goheen, Justin ILB 6-3 220 55 Lyde, Dean OLB 6-3 221 56 Gibson, Oliver OLB 6-3 228 57 Mannelly, B. DT 6-4 279 58 Nau, Jeremy ILB 6-4 225 59 Johnson, lance•c 6-2 260 59 Hickey, Karl C 6-1 212 60 Kuechenberg, ErikiLB 6-2 215 61 Ruddy, Tim C 6-3 275 62 lacheta, Chat OG 6-2 279 63 Beckwith, Jason OG 6·1 237 64 Rausch, Peter DT 6·5 ir~ 65 Knapp, Und~y!·OT-·6-6.29.',1 66 Norman.f",c)qd·oT·~:~~-?~ 1) 
67 Zatave~~\MW.~:~i· 29""0 68 ~-i~eyf *'1 dpp-5 235 7o{¥6~1in~_,ftk~ qT 6·5 26o 
11 ~~2~. IM>ertpL 6-1 263 72 tean~ R}itidV 6-5 250 73 Hall, JO~~~ ctfo:·4-a97 
~~:~~~~~t!t~~l~~tffi:r,r~)
7S.McGuureH3ena··~t 6-4 286  :  1  
n sto.~1~WOdcl Dlr ~-·3 211  l 1  
.·.·.·-·.·.·-·.···'""....  \  • '\  :  0  

~""'~::1.J.:~··Jordan OT &:.~ 296 1 j 79 Young, Tyler DL 6~~5b---., l 1 80 McBride, Oscar TE s-"&--2.~::---...l._._! 81 Jones, Eric** DT 6-6 250 ''<:::::--:;) 82 Pollard, William** SE 6-4 220 83 Smith, Tony•• SE 6-2 191 
. 84 Smith, lrv•• TE 6-5 233 84 Baker, Jeff FL 5·11 174 85 Hughes, Robert TE 6-6 246 86 Brown, Derek TE 6-6 252 87 Dawson, Lake SE 6-1 200 88 Bakich, Huntley ILB 6-3 210 88 Warren, Clarke FL 5-10 169 89 McGill, Karl'" OLB 6-3 221 90 Hamilton, Brian DT 6-5 254 92 Taliaferro, John OLB 6-4 225 92 Bruening, Willie ILB 5-1 o209 93 Kordas, Jim OL 6-5 240 94 Fleurima, ReggieDT 6-4 250 95 Bryant, Junior•• DT 6-4 263 96 deManigold, M.'" DT 6-4 266 97 Young, Bryant• DT 6-3 256 98 P.lDfiL.J.D. DT 6-0 251 
Tne ObServerTAnn-Marie Conrado 

RCB 
Todd Murray Brian Winters 


Jl 
LE 
John MacNeill Aaron Jackson 


Jl [\ 
FS 
OLB 
1) Brian Vooletich 

Rob Fredrickson U Corey Keyes 
Rich Glover 
1 

l 
J.) r

LT J Willie Hill Ed O'Bradov ich 
' 

J.l r--,_ ss 
1MB Chuck Bullough 
· John Dignan lJSteve Wasylk Myron Bell 
RT 


.Jl 
William Reese Mark lacy 


£:', .LCB
Jl 1
OLB Alan Haller Ernest Steward Darrin Eaton 
I 

RE Rich Glover Bill Johnson Eric White 
Jl 
The Obse~Wr/Brendan Regan 


Irish Football '91 
page 5

Friday, September 20, 1991 
-




I 
l. -l 
TB QB Tico Duckett Bret Johnson Sebastian Small Jim Miller 
K Bill Stoyanovich Jim DeiVerne 
p 1
-"l FL 
Josh Butland C. Hawkins Tim Ryan 
l.l 
Two teams on the rebound 
Duckett, Hawkins lead Spartan attack into South Bend 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Spartans such a supposed emo­Spartan game, then, merit a Sports Editor tional advantage would be to closer look. ignore one crucial fact: that Michigan State has a typical Notre Dame suffered a hard­Big Ten offense, with a powerful
As Michigan State rolls into 
Notre Dame Stadium on the fought and painful24-14 loss at running back (Tico Duckett), a game-breaking wide receiver
heels of its 20-3 debacle against the hands of Michigan last 
(Courtney Hawkins) and aCentral Michigan, there are week. 
those who would give the So while these two teams may workingman's quarterback 
Spartans an "intangible" edge be equally motivated to succeed (Bret Johnson). In fact, the 
in virt .. e of their desire to atone Saturday, their vendettas look to Spartans offensive juggernaut 
cancel each other out. bears a strong resemblance tofor past sins. 
the offenses of both Indiana and
Yet to give George Perles' The other facets of the Michigan, Notre Dame's two previous opponents. 
In one respect, however, the Spartan offense is different-it has the most gigantic offensive line that the Irish will face aside from Stanford, with an average weight of 296 pounds. 
"Michigan State is a very physical football team," said Holtz. "They play very, very hard, always have an outstand­ing defense, and there usually 
•.··.. more difficult to run on or score on than any other team we play. Tailback Tico Duckett, a bona­fide Heisman Trophy candidate whose running abilities mirror those of Michigan's Ricky Powers and Indiana's Vaughn Dunbar, recently surpassed the 2,000 career yard mark. Duckett's name can be found heading the list of nearly every if.I#F/4 pre-season All-American list 
~ published, and his career 5.5 yards per carry average provides good justification for all the hype. Fullback Brice Abrams, meanwhile, who had two carries for eight yards last week, is the quintessential blocking back. 
''Tico Duckett is an outstand­ing tailback," observed Holtz, "and they give him the ball a lot. He's definitely as good as Powers and Dunbar." 
But unfortunately for Notre Dame, Duckett (21 rushes, 95 yds. vs Central Michigan) is not the only weapon in the Spartans' collection of offen­
. The Observer/John Cluver 
sive tools. Flanker Courtney
Semor wide receiver Courtney Hawkins is the principal downfield threat 
Hawkins-who also takes care
for the Sparta.ns.. H_awkins made 31 receptions last season, and had 
of Michigan State's kick and
three catches 1n the1r 20-3 loss to Central Michigan last Saturday. 
punt return duties-should give 
the maturing Irish secondary a trial by aerial rtre. Conversely, Hawkins (three recs., 38 yds.) helps Michigan

FCB
OLB 

State open up its offense to a
Rod SmithDevon McDonald 

degree, but he ought to be the
Marvin Robinson 

only receiver which gives Notre 
Shawn Wooden

l 
Oliver Gibson Germaine Holden 
Dame nightmares. Starting
J 
split end Mark MacFarland (three recs., 19 yds.) is not on 
Jl 
~ ~;M:Jones 
the same footing as regular starter Brian Howard, who is expected to miss the entire sea­son with a leg injury. Tight end 
·~ Dean Lytle 
~ ' r..· 
Kurt Prins, on the other hand,
I )SLB 
FS 
is primarily used as a blocker
f Demetrius DuBose Jeff Burris 
(two recs., two yds.).
Brian Ratigan J. Covington 
DEFENSE. Spartan coach
.J ~ustin Goheen Chet Hollister 
Jl 
George Perles prefers a 4-3 de­fensive alignment, and espe­
cially prefers facing pure pass 
r.

~ 
NT 
quarterbacks. Like the famed
Junior Bryant 
Pittsburgh Steelers' "Steel
~ray Ridgely 
Curtain," a Perles product, the Spartan defense has a marked tendency to bend but not break. 
M• 
f.:';. 
Middle linebacker Chuck
I' J'ss Greg Davis leShane Saddler 
Bullough, who had nineteen
MLB } Pete Bereich 

tackles against Central Michigan (12 unassisted, seven
Jim Aanigan

I 
assisted), in addition to an in­
.J } Jeremy Nau J 1 
terception (which he returned 
LT 

16 yards) is a highly-touted
Bryant Young 
Butkus Award candidate, and 
Peter Rausch 
can make the day a long one 

~ernard Mannelly ~ 
for the Irish running backs. Outside backers Rich Glover
' } BCB 
(six unassisted, four assisted)
Tom Carter 

and Ernest Steward (one unas­
. OLB . Greg Lane 
.. 

sisted, one assisted) are also
· .• Anthony Peterson Travis Davis 
quality players, who are quick
. K. McGill
• 

'Jl
. . NickSmith 
enough to provide pass cover­age and blitz when necessary. 
.11 
The ObservertBrendan Regan 
(~
l 
tl 

-) ..; 
l,..
iL 
. ...,...~
, 
· "' 
l.i&. .. 
t.iL.. 
'.:}TE 
Kurt Prins 
t...iL Ty Hallock 
SE
M. MacFarland 
H. Triplett 
QT Bob Henry S.Hannah 
LG 
Toby Heaton Brett lorius 
. 
C 
C. P~an:zyk 
-}RG 
A. Wagner 
M. Amacker 
~iL .. 
ST 
· Jim Johnson Brian DeMarco 


Irish Football '91 
page 6 Friday, September 20, 1991 
Young asserts himself on line 
Sophomore catapaults from obscurity into starting job 
Smith acknowledged as leader of AFROS 
I 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The best way to change something you don't like is to do something about it. 
Notre Dame defensive end Junior Bryant heeded such words last spring, and the re­sult this fall catapulted the sophomore into a starting role on the Irish defensive line. 
Young (6-3, 256) played pri­marily on special teams last year, making 92 appearances. He took advantage of limited action at defensive tackle, earning a letter despite playing in only seven games as a de­fensive tackle. 
"Last year I just wanted to get my feet wet and get some playing time. I knew that going into spring ball that I had the chance to be a starter." said Young, "Getting the letter as a freshman was one of the goals I had for last season." 
One of his goals for this sea­son is for continued improve­ment during every game, a task that Young has aptly fulfilled thus far. In his first career start against Indiana, Young posted three tackles, an unsat.. 
, 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Doing things the right way doesn't·extend just to the way Smith runs his rputes or con­centrates on the ball. Skip Holtz expects quite a bit more from the most veteran member of the receiving corps, which has nicknamed itself AFROS, or America's Finest Receivers on Saturday. 
"He's at meetings on time, he does what he's supposed to do, he's the first guy in line, be's the leader of the group, he is a spokesperson," Holtz says. 
"He bandies himself in a very class way, and he's been great for the younger guys. He's been a teacher, making sure you do this on a route or do that, and they all do that, but Tony being the senior of the group ... he's kind of looked up to by every­one else. He's been a joy for me, he makes my job easier." 

the wave at the Wharf. 
', 

Doing the ..wave.. at Notre Dame football games is practically an institution. And so is going to the Wharf Restaurant for the freshest seafood, beef and chicken entrees in town! Notre Dame fans have been enjoying the Wharf•s fabulous lunches and dinners for years! And our salad buffet has a reputation that's second to none! When you need to satisfy a winning appetite, follow the wave to the Wharf Restaurant. 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-44n 
The leadership position isn't one that Smith shies~ away from, in fact he accepts It with pride. 
"The seniors on our team, it's our duty to step forward in each position and take a lead­ership role," says Smith. 
While the senior says his pri­mary concern right now is to help the team win a national championship, thoughts of playing in the National Football League are tucked in the back of his mind. 
"He's not at that (NFL) stage yet, but he's certainly talented enough," says Holtz. "He has the speed to play there and he's tough enough, I don't think there's any doubt about that. If he keeps working at it, he's go­ing to get there. He's not there yet, but I do believe he'll play in the NFL." 
Says Smith of his future: "After college football I have to look at myself and at the whole isfactory effort as far as he was concerned. 
Last week, somebody must have forgotten to tell Young that he was colliding head-on with Michigan All-America Greg Skrepenak. The results were astounding-eight tackles with two for a combined loss of five yards. 
Young believes even better performances are around the corner. 
"I had some good plays last week, but I also made some mistakes," said Young, a Parade All-America coming out of Bloom Township High School in Chicago Heights, Ill. "There's room for improve­ment. I need to get better at what I do each game." 
The leading solo tackler among Irish defensive tackles with nine, Young credits much of his success to last year's waiting game, in which two­year starter Bob Dahl and Boo Williams held the starting posi­tions. 
"Watching the older guys helped me pick up some things," said Young, who had four solo tackles last season. "It helped me along the way 
just watching what they were 
able to do." 
With Williams no longer on 
the team, Young and the rest of 
the inexperienced defensive 
front have their work cut for 
them. If Young fails in any way, 
he knows what looms ahead-a 
spot on the outside looking in. 
"We've got guys that really 
work," said Young, who dou­
bled as a tight end in high 
school. "If you slack up, your 
position can easily be taken 
away from you. You have to be 
consistent and do what you're 
told." 
So far, Young bas proven that be's comfortable with his new role. It's a role he almost played out at the University of Michigan. · 
"Notre Dame was a school I really loved as a kid," said Young. "But Michigan was a school that I looked forward to going to. Then I came here and the atmosphere and ttadition changed those plans." 
Saturday, Young hopes to change some plans himself­those of the Michigan State of­fense. 

situation as to what I want to do and then go straight ahead." 
Even if the NFL doesn't work out for Smith, he has a few plans in mind. · 
"I also want to go into TV, maybe have my own TV show, something like that. Sort of like the Fresh Prince of Bel Air," says Smith, a deadringer for Will Smith, aka the Fresh Prince, star of the show and a rap artist. 
As for now, Smith and the And hopefully, the knowledge rest of the wide receivers will ~mith has gained and the work concentrate on catching every­habits he's developed will 
thing the quarterbacks throw translate into future success their way, while Smith will enjoy for the split end. Even if takes the fruits or his labor and con­some time. tinue to cultivate his relation-,------------. 

ship with his position coach. 
"I have the utmost respect for Tony, the way he's worked, ev­erything he's come through and the way he's progressed," says Holtz. 
If[};]~ 
@@[L[f ®G:{]@[F) 
~li 
~@IJOO~ @5\fMl~ 
"On th4 Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Open Football Weekends Friday 6:30am -5:00pm Saturday 6:30am -one hour before game Sunday 6:30am-4:00pm 
QUALITYGIFTS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF CLASSIC NOTRE DAMEWGOS 
WILSON TIT LEIST RAM AU REUS PICKERING HAAS JORDAN TEXACE AND MANY MORE 
TN GolfShop at Notr~ Dame is open 
March ltlvw Cltristmas. Afull liM of 
quality Notre Dame apparel andgifts for IN golfer isaWiilablc. For more in/ormation on IN University's golf 
course andpro shop. call: 
(219)239-6425 

• 



Irish Football '91 
Friday, September 20, 1991 page 7 


Grading the Teams 
OFFENSIVE LINE -Even 
Michigan State's gargantuans average 296 pounds. Notre Dame, on the other hand, averages only 284 pounds, with Justin Hall (297) the heaviest 
E player. Both units are experienced and dependable. 
DEFENSIVE LINE-Even George Partes favors a four-man front, and his defenses have a marked tendency to bend but 
E
not break. The Irish defense is · simply underrated. The intangible is how much pFessure Notre Dame can put on Bret Johnson. 
LINEBACKERS -Irish Demetrius DuBose. Devon McDonald, Pete Bereich and Anthony Peterson turned in a • 
respectable showing against Michigan. Middle linebacker Chuck Bullough is Michigan State's Butkus Award candidate, while outside backers Rich Glover and Ernest Steward are also quality players. 
SECONDARY • Even Michigan State boasts two 
talented corners, Alan Halter and E 
Darrin Eaton, in addition to a 
pair of speedy safeties. The Irish 
also have a potent, fire-tested 
pass coverage unit. 
Catch the wAvE of Notre Dame Tradition 
and passit on with I 
I I 
O'Malley of Notre Dame John W. Meaney This book chronicles the spirit and dedication of one of Notre Dame's most famous teachers. $10.95 paper 
{·;-.
t:-"f:"_/ 
UNIVERSITY OF NC)TRE l)AMEA CONTEMPORARY PORTIWT 
~~1@!~~~~~:•.. !41····~·~ 
) ,. ~~ 

· · lit ~ ' , ,a "f r•• < .~,"" 
' .. 
~ 
""" ' .,.. 
lWHf.i<T l' \Cfi\lLHL 
~i. · ',.._; tr.:T:t'" 
The Official University of Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Desk Calendar Spiral bound for convenient use as an appoint­ment book, this exquisite 16-month desk calen­dar-containing 16 full-color photos of campus scenes-is the perfect guide to the celebration of Notre Dame's 150th birthday. $19.95 cloth 
The University of Notre Dame A Portrait of Its History and Campus Thomas J. Schlereth 
The University of Notre Dame
Using over 430 photographs, maps, and 
./1 H''tmtf tll/t_.; H15hw_1, 1111d C.~n!Jllt:>
drawings, Schlereth brings to life the people 
and moments that made Notre Dame. 
University. of Notre Dame: A Contemporary Portrait 
Second Edition 
Robert P. Schmuhl 
The words and 78 color and black-and­white photographs in t~1is book provide the 
most up-to-date portrait of the University of Notre Dame available. $9.95 paper 
· 
. 

RECEIVERS -Irish Hawkins helps Michigan State open up its offense to a degree, but split end Mark MacFarland is not equal to the fallen Brian Howard. On the Irish side of the ball, tight end Derek Brown, split end sensation Tony Smith, and flanker lake Dawson will stun the Spartans, if given the opportunity. 
RUNNING BACKS • Even While Rodney Culver and Jerome Bettis should keep Paries' defense busy, Duckett and fullback Brice Abrams can be expected to return the favor. Although Duckett is a Heisman trophy candidate, he will be a marked man. 
QUARTERBACK -Even While Holtz has called Mlrer's comeback performance against Michigan Aexceptional; Holtz was hot on the 1 recruiting trail of Spartan QB Brat Johnson only two years ago. Both Mirer .. and Johnson are fine passers, and the teams have comparable depth at the position. 
SPECIAL TEAMS -Spartans 
.·. Placekickers Craig Hentrich and Bill 
~~ Stoyanovich are reliable workhorses, as is Spartan punter Josh Butland. The speedy Hawkins har1dles the return duties for the Green and White, while the departure of Mike Miller has led Holtz to pull out all the stops in his search for a reliable kick and punt return man. Hawkins spells a slight Michigan State advantage. 
• 
E E 

Bettis 
_continued from page 2 
on option number one. "He's one of the guys that we have to get the ball to on a reg-
Beck 
continued from page 3 
feels great about his job here." 
Beck loves working with the 
players here because they are 
not above taking coaching. 
"As a coach, I want to impart 
knowledge and make sure they 
are giving 110% to the task at 
hand," said Beck. 
His methods have been rela­tively successful thus far this season. His crew of backs have gained 405 yards on 83 carries Cor an average of 4.9 yards per run against Indiana and Michigan. 
ular basis," he said. "I don't think there's any doubt we want the ball in his hands an awful lot more." 
This way, opposing defenders can decide what to think of Jerome Bettis. 
"He brings a positiveness to 
the team," said Bettis. "At the 
end of practice when everyone's 
feeling beat, he can pick every­
one up. He's a teacher, not a 
preacher." 
Beck has a deep respect for the other coaches and has en­joyed the camaraderie of the Irish coaching staff. 
·on and off the field, there's a good chemistry between the coaches. Egos interfere with the cohesion of the staff; here, there are no egos." 
Beck is clearly enjoying his new job and is prepared to do the best he can while he is here. 
O<:TnH.t:r\.l<JYJ 
··'·,·· .. .,., 

..:.~:-,..~_--;~--.... 
.

-~-~:. ... 
.~~' :t.ll;~ -:. .. .......... \ 
;:_~:=~:-,. :/ ~ 
.. 


Irish Football '91 
page 8 
Friday, September 20, 1991 

their 19. Mirer completed key
History passes to Rod Culver and Tony FSU stays atop Smith on two third-and-long si­continued from page 4 tuations to keep the drive alive. topsy-turvy poll But, the play that wiH forever 
By RENE FERRAN
other memorable comeback for haunt Spartan fans came on a 
Associate Sports Editor
the Irish. Down 19-7 in the second and four play from the third quarter, quarterback Rick Spartan 25. Rick Mirer rolled The Florida State SeminolesMirer rallied the Irish to a 20-right and threw for Adrian 
remained atop a National
19 victory in East Lansing. Jarrell. Cornerback Todd 
Collegiate Sportswriters' poll
The Irish jumped out to an Murray got his hands the
on racked with instability, as onlyearly 7-0 lead on Ricky Watters' ball in what looked like a sure four teams held ground in thiseight yard touchdown run, interception. 
week's rankings.
which was set up by a Raghib Unfortunately for Murray, The Seminoles, 58-0 winnersIsmail 21 yard punt return. The the ball sprung off his shoulder over Western Michigan, racked
Spartans came back with a pad and flew into the air. 
up 21 of 29 frrst-place votes to with a Craig Langelob field goal Jarrell snatched the ball out of 
outdistance co-runners up
and a safety from a Craig the air and went out of bounds Michigan and Miami. The 
Hentrich blocked punt. at the two yard line. Culver then had more
Wolverines first­
After the free kick, the cashed it in from the one for place ballots than the Spartans took over on their 44 the score. The miracle play 
Hurricanes, but both teams yardline. Hyland Hickson broke gave the Irish a 20-19 victory, ended up in a dead heat with a 33 yard run and finished the and continued the Irish domi­
677 points apiece. drive off with a one yard nance over the Spartans. Florida's impressive 35-0 vic­touchdown run. The last time the Irish lost to tory over Alabama vaulted the In the third quarter, quarter­Michigan State was in Lou Gators 
over idle Washingtonback Craig Enos used his arm Holtz's frrst year, 1986, when into fourth position. Tennessee, 
to drive the Spartans 88 yards, Notre Dame went down 20-15 Clemson, Oklahoma, Penn including a 33 yard pass to in Spartan Stadium. Since then, 
State, and Iowa rounded out 
Courtney Hawkins. Tico the Irish have won four the top 10. Duckett then rumbled in from a straight, including the 1987 
Notre Dame fell from seventh 
yard out to give Michigan State game in which Tim Brown re­
to 12th in this week's rankings. a 19-7 lead. turned two punts for touch­The Irish (420 points) came in Mirer then began to work his downs. just behind the Hawkeyes (422) 
magic. He led the Irish down 
and 11th-ranked Nebraska the field, completing short In the series, the Irish are 13-(421). passes and running, including 7 at Notre Dame Stadium, and Two newcomers joined the 
an option run for 12 yards to the Spartans' last victory there top 25 this week. Baylor's 16­
the Spartan three. Watters then was in 1983 over a fourth 14 upset of then 12th-ranked plunged in from the one, to ranked Irish squad, 28-23. Colorado (now 21st) skyrock­make it 19-14. Those two losses are the only eted the Bears into 16th posi­With 5:15 left-in the game, blemishes for the Irish in their tion, while Mississippi State Notre Dame got the ball at last fifteen meetings. climbed into the poll at 23rd. UCLA and Michigan State 
Darnell likens him to one of his dropped from the rankings.
former players, Chicago Bears defensive end Trace Armstrong. 
Darnell 

1 
m 9128'~ 

{4) Miami 2~ m_: W28.t
F.toridil"-~-·-···.• :: -·~· ---­
{6) --2-o 625 !W21 if {5) W•lf1ington ;· t-e· {1} 621 9.'21 (10) r.me.ee 2-0· -548 Qf21\,$. 2 (8) Clemson t..O (1) 536 9121 'VS. TerTl'fe 
(11) Oklahoma 1.0 528 9f21 Yll. Utah State 
9. (3) hnnSblte 2-1 441 9121 w. Brigham Young 
10. (13) Iowa 2.0 .22 9128 vs. N. llinois 11; (15) Nebraska 2-0 421 91'21 ws. Washington 
(7) 
Notre Dame 1-1 .20 9121 Yll. Michigan Stale (16) Auburn 2.0 376 9121 at Texas 

(14) 
Georgia Tech 1·1 288 9119 vs. Vitginia 


16. (20) Ohio State 2-0 284 Sll'21 vs. Wash. State 2 
(NR) Baylor 2.0 254 9121 Yll. Missouri (22) TexaeA&M 1-1 2-47 912111l TuiN (9) Houston 1-1 224 Ql21 Ill lllinoil (25) Plllabur;h 3-0 198 Q/28 at Mw-ota (2<1) Southamc.t 1·1 163 9121 vs. Arizona (12) Colorado 1·1 161 9121 vs. Minnesota (23) Syracuse 2..o 152 9121 vs. Florida 
(NR) Miss. State 3-0 86 91211tT-­(17) Alabama 1·1 83 9121 \IS. Georgia (21) Texas 0.1 61 9121 'IS. Auburn
4 

Others receMng votes: Geofgia 51, California 98, UCLA 32, Oregon 
22. No!th Carolina 16, Centrlll Michigan 13, lkhlpn Stata !1. Notth 
L~·01na State 7. Air Force 8, TCU 8, Mississippi 4. Minouri 4, Duke 3, llinois 3, West V~rginia 2. Kansas 1. 
5 Schools participating: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State, Ball Stale, Brigham Young. 810Wrt, Colorado. Columbia, ComeR. Duke. Florida. 

Florida State. IHinois. Indiana, Kansas. Kentucky, Miami. Michigan. North Carolina Stale, Noire Dame. Penn, Purdue, Southern Cal. 
Syracuse, Texas. Vwginla. West Vwginia. Wisconsin. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

continued from page 4 SPARTANS TO WATCH
"They're at different posi­tions, but Demetrius reminds
coach Ron Cooper, Darnell 
me a lot of Trace," saidresponds with the hopefully 
Darnell. "Demetrius has such
appropriate defensive 
great focus on what he wants
formations. Holtz then makes 
to do and I don't have anythe final decisions. 
doubt that be's going to doAfter last year's defensive 
that. I think he's going to playperformance, which allowed the football for a long time." 
most average total defensive The defense must continue to
yards per game by a Notre progressively improve if the
Dame team since the NCAA be­Irish are to keep Michigangan keeping statistics in 1937, State's offense from exploding.
Darnell hopes to return the 
Count on Darnell, after a yearteam to late season form. In with his personnel, to makethe final two games of the sea­more adept decisions during his son, the Irish allowed six points 
second 
time around.

against Southern Cal and nine versus Colorado in the Orange 
George Perles Tlco Duckett Chuck Bullough
Bowl.· 
The Spartans' head coach bas The 5-10, 185-pound tailback A leading candidate for the "We kept fighting it all season 
compiled a 54-37-4 record was named to the 1990 All-Big Butkus Award, the 6-2, 230­long and the last two games 
since taking over for Frank 10 team and was the league's pound linebacker made 86 solo were what people would like to "Muddy" Waters in 1983. Offensive Player of the Year, tackles in 1990. He was a sec­think Notre Dame is all about," Michigan State has made four picking up 1,394 yards and 10 ond-team All-Big 10 choice last said Darnell. straight bowl appearances un­touchdowns. The nation's lead­season. In last year's Irish­
Junior linebacker Demetrius der Perles, including a trip to ing returning rusher, last week Spartan game, Bullough was DuBose must continue to pro­the Rose Bowl after the 1987 against Central Michigan, he named Chevrolet Player of the duce if the Irish defense plans season. rushed for 95 yards. Game, making 18 tackles. on returning to that status. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS ~ 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community predict the Dave Dleternan AI Lesar Dave McMahon Rich Kurz Rose Pietrzak Rene Ferran Anthony King outcomes of the week's major 









Sports Editor South Bend Associate Associate Assoc. Sports Associate Assistantcollege football games. Records 18-12-0 Tribune Sports Editor Sports Editor Info. Director Sports Editor Sports Editor are compiled as to how each 
16-14-0
17-13-0 17-13-0 Last week's 15-15-0 15-15-0
person does against the spread. Home teams are in CAPS. guest: 8-7-0 
Gators
Orange men Gators Orange men Overaii:16-14-0 Gators Gators
Huskies
Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Corn huskers Gators Huskies Huskies
Bulldogs
Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Huskies Bulldogs Volunteers
Tigers
Florida 8 over SYRACUSE Tigers Tigers Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Tigers
TerrapinsWash. 1 over NEBRASKA Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Nittany Lions Tigers Mountaineers Mountaineers 
TENN. 14 over Miss. St. 
Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Longhorns Terrapins Nittany Lions Nittany Lions CLEMSON 26 over Temple Longhorns War Eagles longhorns Buckeyes Cougars War Eagles LonghornsMARYLAND 2 over W.Va. 
PENN ST. 12 over B.y.u. Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Bears War Eagles Buckeyes Buckeyes TEXAS 4 over Auburn Bears Bears Bears Hurricane Cougars Bears Bears OHIO ST. 20 over Wsh. St. Aggies Hurricane Aggies Cougars Bears Aggies Aggies
BAYLOR 14 over Missouri Trojans
lllini · lllini Cougars Hurricane lllini CougarsTexas A&M 17 over TULSA Buffaloes
Trojans Wildcats Trojans lllini Trojans TrojansHouston 10 over ILLINOIS Crimson Tide 
SO. CAL 8.5 over Arizona Gophers Gophers Buffaloes Trojans Buffaloes Gophers
Irish
COLO. 16.5 over Minnesota Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Bulldogs Gophers Bulldogs BulldogsALABAMA 6 over Georgia Spartans Spartans Irish Crimson Tide Trojans IrishNOTRE DAME 12 over MSU 
Irish 

---~----------------------------------------------..,.j 








