
VOL. XXIII NO. 119 WEDNESDAY , APRIL 3, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND honorary degrees to be given to U.S. leaders 
Special to The Observer 
ln~land's head of government Charles llaughey, U.S. Surgeon Gerwral Antonia Novello, NBC News correspondent Jane Pauley and former Congresswoman Corrine Boggs are among 13 people receiving honorary degrees at the Univllrsity of Notre Dame's commencement May 19. 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, editor of Commonweal magazine, previously an­nouneed as the speaker at the 2 
p.m. (EST) graduation exercises in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. will r.ece.ive a doctor of laws degrne. 
Stninfels graduatl~d from Loyola Univnrsity, Chieago, and studil~d at Columbia Univnrsity and thP Sorbonne. in Paris. be­fore meniving a rnastnr's degree in Arneriean history from New York University in 1971. 
She wrotn for and editnd sev­eral publications dealing with rnligious and public affairs be­fore assuming the editorship of 

Jane Pauley 

the lay-edited Catholic journal of opinion in 1988. 
Notre Dame's 146th Commencement, its 19th since admitting female baccalaureate students in 1972, reflects the "Year of Women" theme as­signed the 1990-91 academic year on campus. Steinfels be­comes the fourth woman to ad­dress spring graduates at the University; nine of thirteen of the honorary degree recipients are women. 
In addition to Steinfels. re­ceiving honorary doctorates will be: 


Antonia Novello 
• 
Caroline Leonetti Ahmanson, a Los Angeles phi­lanthropist active in business, cultural, civic, national and in­ternational affairs, will receive a doctor of laws. Ahmanson has held three Presidential ap­pointments, including national councils on the humanities and on the Peace Corps. She also served as chairman of the board of the Twelfth District Federal Reserve Bank in San Francisco. 

• 
Boggs, a former Louisiana Congresswoman, will receive a doctor of laws. Joining Congress 



A Moscow resident carries loaves of bread under his arm Monday at a state food store as Muscovites do their last shopping before the drastic price increases which will begin Tuesday. 

Steinfels, editor of Commonweal: Catholics must reassert liberalism 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
News Writer 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, editor of Commonweal rnagazinn and the speaker for Notre Dame's 1991 com­mencement exercises, said Ttwsday that Catholics must reassert their interests in liber­alism in a lecture entitled "The Heturn of the Catholic Liberal." 
"The unhappy state of Ameri­can politics does not excuse us of our responsibility as Catholics," said Steinfels, to support liberal values "in a more forthright way than we an1 right now." 
American Catholics are "uniquely positioned," said Ste­infels, to support a new liberal­ism in this country. 
Steinfels offered four sugges­tions on how Catholics could accomplish such an objective in the face of what she described as a twenty-year "bad turn" for liberalism which she descr.lbed as "radical individualism" and "anarchical." 

Margaret Stelnfels 
The Church must "make lay people smarter," said Steinfels, "about how to integrate theol­ogy into their everyday life." She added that "lay people must be prepared to make a case on many levels and in many places ... including this University." 
She also suggested that "American Catholics ... need a theology of accountability" in their everyday roles "to aug­ment our professional skills," in striving to advance liberal principles. 
Lastly she recommended that Catholics use the mass as a means to an end. "The mass is not a political tool," she said, but rather "a rich reminder of who we are, what we are doing or should be doing, and where we are going." 
In addressing the question of why someone would choose to be liberal Steinfels described the political left as a "vehicle of reform" for the failures of what she called "ten years of a Disneyland version of social Darwinism." 
She said that deregulation and other policies of the last decade have not done as well as the New Deal, the Fair Deal, and the War on Poverty; exac­erbated economic problems on a long-term basis; and created an "underclass." 
She also said that historically "the American community is a liberal community ... born out of a liberal set of values: equality, tolerance, and respect for human rights." 
Steinfels added that as a re­sult of Vatican II and other such 
see STEINFELS/ page 5 
Charles Haughey 

in a special election in March 1973, Boggs succeeded her husband, House Majority Leader Hale Boggs, the victim of a plane crash. After serving nine terms representing Louisiana's 2nd Congressional District, she announced last July that she would not seek another term. 
As well as receiving her honorary degree, Boggs will accept Notre Dame's 1991 Laetare Medal, the oldest award given to American Catholics. 
• Sidney Callahan, professor of psychology at Mercy College, in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., will re­ceive a doctor of laws. The au­thor of numerous books and articles on religious, social and ethical issues, Callahan is asso­ciate director of the Institute for the Study of Ethics at Mercy College and a consultant for the Hastings Center. 
• 
Raymond Chambers, chair­man of the board of the Amelior Foundation in Morristown, N.J., will receive a doctor of laws. Chambers is .chairman of the Points of Light Foundation, which is directing a national effort to stimulate voluntarism. 

• 
Alvah Chapman, Jr., chair­man of the executive committee of Knight-Ridder, Inc., will re­ceive a doctor of laws. In 1962, Chapman became vice president and general manager of the Miami Herald and 11 years later became president of Knight Newspapers. He retired as its board chairman in 1989. 

• 
Marva Collins, founder of Chicago's Westside Preparatory 


see DEGREES I page 4 

USSR hikes prices 
MOSCOW (AP) -Soviet shoppers complained, cursed and even cried .Tuesday after the government increased prices on many goods for the first time in 30 years, but in the end they dug deeper in their pockets for more rubles. 
"We are becoming beggars, real beggars," lamented Na­talya Antonova, coming out of a bread store crowded with early­morning shoppers. "Our sa.laries are not going up; the only thing that awaits us and our children is poverty." 
Price increases ranging from 250 percent to 1.000 percent went into effect nationwide on about half the food and con­sumer products sold in state­run stores. 
Many stores seemed emptier than usual because shoppers had emptied the shelves in re­cent weeks and shipments of goods with new prices had not arrived. 
That seemed to surprise some shoppers, who believed that of­ficials might try to increase the selection of goods to soften the blow. There also had been ru­mors that goods were being stockpiled in recent weeks be­fore the price increases. 
Mikhail Gorbachev's govern­ment ordered the austerity measure as a step toward mov­ing the Soviet Union toward a market economy and bringing artificially low, state-supported prices closer to production costs. 
see HIKES/page 5 

Saint Mary's student wins Truman Foundation grant 
By MAUREEN SCHNEEBERGER 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Elizabeth VanDersarl, a ju­nior at Saint Mary's, has been selected a winner of the Harry 
S. Truman Scholarship, which carries with it a $30,000 grad­uate study grant. 
VanDersarl, an English liter­ature major from Colorado Springs, Colo., was selected from 1,100 applicants to be a finalist representing Colorado­the first finalist from Saint Mary's since 1985. There were 80 finalists competing for 10 to 15 scholarships, which were sponsored by the Truman Foundation in Independence, Mo. 
VanDersarl plans to get both a law degree and a masters de­gree in national policy, with an emphasis on domestic violence. Ultimately, she would like to write national policies for tougher laws and stricter penalties for domestic violence, eventually implementing these laws on a national basis. 
In addition to volunteer work and her father, VanDersarl said her Saint Mary's education influenced her greatly. 
"This community encourages you to take action. It says to look for problems in your own backyard and solve them-don't let them go." she said. "Saint Mary's is challenging and provides a subtle but important impact on its students' lives." 
While domestic violence problems in our public policy is a major concern to VanDersarl, it is not the only challenge she has chosen to become involved in. She was an Andrews scholar in the Notre Dame ser­vice project last summer, a translator for the World Cycling Championships. and will be the 1991-1992 senior class president at Saint Mary's. 
VanDersarl said of her fu­ture, "I just want to make a difference." 
.........--------·-------------~---~ ,~.-----...---~~-------­
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

If I were a king for a day I'd... 
Everyone has thought-------------­about it once in a while. Admit it. Someone or something really irks you to the point of homicide or fratricide or germicide, and you think, "Person! If I were king for a day, I'd fix that!" 
Florentine
Well, I'm honest enough to admit that I've thought 


Hoelker
about it. There are lots of things here on campus News Writer and around the world that _....:..:;:::..:.:.:::....:.::..:..:.::::!....­I'd like to see changed. 
So strap on a pair, get a sense of humor if you don't have one, and read. And if you don't like what you read, find someone who cares. 
•Those 
freaking golf carts. That's right. The ones that supposedly carry wounded or helpless students and staff to the places they need to go. If I'm run off the sidewalk one more time by some idiot carrying his/her friends to dinner...Anyway, I'd like to see every last one of those golf carts blown to shreds, and burned. With the obnoxious driver in the seat. 

•Jane 
Austen. She just doesn't get enough credit. To rectify this and to get my friend Colleen off my back, I'd institute a national Jane Austen Day. 

•Commercials. 
They bother me. They're full of distortion and misrepresentation. They lie. too. 

I'd get rid of commercial television and replace it with things like PBS-no, scratch that. They have commercials now, too. I'd just get rid of television. It makes us all fat, lazy, and stupid anyway. 

•Start 
another war so the Gulf Crisis Action Group would do something else besides whine about how they're constantly misrepresented now that the war is over. Someone will call me tonight to whine about this, but to clarify, it'd be a war of nerves. No one would die. We'd just see who blinked first. 

•Give 
raises to all the good teach­ers/professors in the world. I don't give two (bleeps) about your research if you can't teach me what you've learned. 

•Get 
rid of fashion, since I'm never in it. First it's a stupid fascination with destroying one's own jeans by slashing, and now everyone on campus expects a lot of rain, so they roll their pants up. Do you think you look cool? Yeah, well, so did everyone in the '70s. Get a life, for Pete's sake. They're only clothes. I knew a girl (oops! A woman) during freshperson year who wore only burlap and sackcloth. Now that was cool. 

•While 
I'm on the subject of gender inclu­sive language, I'd give all those uptight feminist chickslbabes/girls/(fill in any po­tentially offensive term here) from Hell a little levity. Loosen up a bit. Language is a convention. I never considered "mankind" exclusive of anyone until someone told me it was. I'll use "personkind" if it'll keep me from being killed by mobs of angry women, but if I slip and say "mankind," don't get angry. I'm only huperson. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Tuesday's  Staff  
News David Kinney Alicia Reale  Sports Rene Ferran Anthony King  S~stems C ris Caracciolo Mike Murphy  
Accent Melissa Cusack Pa1ge Smoron  Scoreboard Mark McGrath  Graphics Brendan Regan  
Ad Design Doug Bronsing Traci Hupp  Production Melissa Cusack Kristin Lynch  Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  
Kevin Hardman Amy Eckert Lisa Gunsorek  View~oint Rich iley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2~4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Prominent senator killed in Chile 
• SANTIAGO, Chile -Several hundred rightists took to the streets in anger, some shouting demands for a mili­tary coup, after the assassination of an opposition se­nator who was a leading figure in the Chilean right. Sen. Jaime Guzman was gunned down on Monday. His killers fled in a stolen taxi, which was abandoned several blocks away, police said. Angered by the assassination, the rightist protesters gathered outside the hospital, chanting anti-government slogans. 
NATIONAL Assault on Kennedy 
estate 
• PALM BEACH, Fla. -Polic fended off a deluge of publicit Tuesday as they investigated alleged rape on the Kennedy e saying they didn't want to the case. Investigators have charges in the case and have uo:;•c,•u•.,u to say whether anyone associated the Kennedy family is a suspect police said. A spokesman for U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy issued a statement Monday saying he was with his family in Palm Beach over the Easter weekend, but had nothing to do with the incident. The victim of the alleged 4 a.m. Saturday assault at the compound was identified only as a 30-year-old woman who lives in Palm Beach County. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Knights of Columbus will hold an open house tonight and tomorrow from 7 to 10 p.m. If you are inter­ested in joining, please attend. Questions, call Joe at 283­1433, Dave at 283-1054, or Anthony at 283-3271. 

• 
Attention seniors and all interested in the Puerto Rico volunteer program: Silvia Bauza will be in the CSC Wednesday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Please stop by to talk to her if you are interested in the program. 

• 
Lab Scene auditions for directing class finals will be held on Wednesday and Thursday at 7 p.m. No prepa­ration is necessary to try out for any of the nine one-act 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April 2, 1991 
NYSEINDEX
VOLUME IN SHARES 

207.42 ... 4.01
189.53 Million 


S&P COMPOSITE /\.
379.50* 1I 8.20 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2,945.05 'If 63.86 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD 'iJ $3.15 to $ 360.40/oz. SILVER 'If 9.5¢ to $ 3.960/oz. 
H  L  
55  50  
78  47  
48  36  
51  37  
51  26  
71  54  
56  40  
49  24  
79  69  
74  54  
54  30  
55  41  
70  50  
57  43  
80  70  
43  37  
76  45  
51  39  
64  41  
51  35  
51  47  
64  34  
68  46  
63  51  
51  22  
50  41  


Workers fear raise is already spent 
•CHARLESTON, W.Va.-Minimum-wage earners say there's little reason to celebrate a 45-cent-per-hour raise. The money is already spent. Workers say they won't see much of the raise once taxes and bills take their bite. At least 3 million American workers got a raise Monday that pushed their wage to $4.25 an hour -an increase of about $18 a week for a full-time worker. It's the second step of a two-part increase Congress enacted in 1989. The first step took effect a year ago, when the federal minimum wage went from $3.35 an hour to $3.80 .. 
INDIANA 

Defense attacks witnesses in drug trial 
• EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Defense attorneys attacked key prosecution witnesses as admitted liars during closing arguments Tuesday in a seven-defendant marijuana conspiracy trial. The government contends that millions of dollars worth of marijuana plants were propagated and grown on three southern Indiana farms between the spring of 1983 and fall of 1985. They say the drugs were then processed and sold, mostly in Colorado. Defense attorneys agree that physical evidence shows a complex, large-scale marijuana operation existed in southern Indiana. 
plays. Room 110, basement lab theatre, Washington Hall. 
• 
A conference titled Genesis will be offered Friday, Saturday, and Sunday for alumni and students as part of the "Life of the Mind" series. For more information, please call x4584. 

• 
Seniors: moving to that new city when you graduate in May? Career and Placement Services would like to help you find that new roommate/house-mate you need. Add your name to our "Information Exchange" listing in our office, then check back for names later. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1865: Union forces occupied the Confederate capital of Richmond, Va., during the Civil War. 

• 
In 1882: The notorious outlaw Jesse James was shot to death in St. Joseph, Mo., by Robert Ford, a member of his own gang. 

• 
In 1948: President Truman signed the Marshall Plan, which allocated more than $5 billion in aid for 16 European countries. 

• 
In 1979: Jane Byrne became the first woman to be elected mayor of Chicago, as she defeated Republican Wallace Johnson. 

• 
One year ago: A delegation from the rebellious republic of Lithuania met with an adviser to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 



ATLANTA (AP) -An Emory in a statement. "The events of nation complaints will continue University law professor re­the past several weeks have its work, said a school signed Monday amid new alle­caused deep injury to me and to spokeswoman, Nancy Seide­gations that he sexually ha­them. Someone has to start the man. Its report was due April rassed women students. healing process; I have decided 12. 
Abraham Ordover, who was it will be me." Ordover, 54, has not taught cleared of sexual harassment Law school Dean Howard since March 1, when Hunter re­complaints against him from 13 Hunter, who announced Or­ceived word of sexual harass­women, took a leave of absence clover's resignation, said the ment complaints against him last month after new complaints university was dropping its in­from the 13 women. Two from four women prompted vestigation into the new com­women alleged Ordover kissed officials to reopen their plaints. them without their consent. investigation of his conduct. A committee appointed by Ordover was cleared of those 
"The welfare of my students Emory President James Laney charges, prompting three days has always been of primary im­to review the university's pro­of angry protests by students portance to me," Ordover said cedures for handling discrimi-who boycotted classes and marched through campus. School officials said Ordover engaged in "inappropriate con­duct" and formally repri­manded him. 
On March 21, four more women filed new complaints of sexual harassment, which the university said were "similar to the last round of complaints." 
In a statement, Hunter "acknowledged the valuable contributions Professor Ordover has made to the law school during his 10 years at the university." 
Ordover founded and headed the school's litigation depart­ment. He also is regional direc­tor of the National Institute for Trial Advocacy, where graduate students get intensive trial training under practicing at­torneys. 
Under the reprimand handed out by school officials, Ordover was ordered not to touch stu­dents, extend social invitations to them or talk to female stu­dents in his office with his door closed after school hours. 
Fr. J. Bryan Hehir "Rerum Novarum and Gaudium et Spes A Double Anniversary for the Social h. " T eac tng Wednesday, April 3 at 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall Co-sponsored by the Cong_regation of Holy Cross and the Center for liocial Concerns  

----~ --~---~ ---~--~--~ ··--~-~----­
The Observer 

page 4 Wednesday, April 3, 1991 
Degrees Reagan endorses bill calling for gun 
continued from page 1 
School and a pioneer in inner­

control, reversing former persuasion 
city education, will receive a 
doctor of laws. In 1975 Collins opened Westside Preparatory in her home using money from her pension fund after 14 years of teaching in public schools. With help from nationwide publicity, she expanded the school into two buildings currently housing about 250 students from all over Chicago and the U.S. 
• Haughey, head of govern­ment, or Taoiseach, of Ireland, will receive a doctor of laws. Elected leader of the Fianna Fail party, Haughey became head of government for the first time from 1979-1981, again briefly in 1982, and now has been Taoiseach since 1987. 
While serving as president of the European Council in 1990, Haughey finalized with President Bush the first formal linkage between the U.S. and the European Community na­tions. 
• 
Sister M. Thomas More, president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, will receive a doctor of laws. An alumnus of Saint Mary's College and of Notre Dame, where she received an M.A. in education, More was regional superior for Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East from 1984 until her election as president of the congregation. 

• 
Novello, who will receive a doctor of science, was sworn in as the nation's 14th surgeon general in March 1990. She is the author or co-author of more than 7 5 scientific articles relating to her medical special­ties (pediatrics and neurology) and public health policy. 

• 
Pauley, NBC News corre­spondent, will receive a doctor of laws. In 1976 she was pro­moted to co-anchor of NBC News' "Today" show, where she appeared until December 1989. She currently is the anchor of "Real Life with Jane Pauley" and substitutes for Tom Brokaw as anchor of "NBC Nightly News." 

• 
Jane Pfeiffer, Notre Dame trustee and consultant in man­agement organization, com­munications and governmental relations, will receive a doctor of laws. Former chair of the board of the National Broadcasting Co., Pfeiffer also spent 20 years with the International Business Machines Corp., leaving in 1976. 

• 
Archbishop John Quinn of San Francisco will receive a doctor of laws. A leader in the American Catholic Church, he was president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the United States Catholic Conference from 1977-80. 


Nearly 2,500 persons are ex­pected to receive degrees at Commencement, including 1,781 undergraduates, 203 master's and doctoral students in the Graduate School, 224 master's degree graduates in the College of Business Administration, and 169 J.D. degree recipients in the Law School. 
Correction 
A headline on March 28 reading, "Singapore police kill 4 Arab hijackers" incorrectly assumed that the Pakistani hi­~ackers mentioned in the story were Arabs. The Observer re­grets the error and apologizes for any misconceptions that this error might have helped perpetuate. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -As a late convert, Ronald Reagan preached for federal handgun control with the fervor of a new believer. But one day of lobby­ing after 10 years doesn't markedly alter the prospects for changing the law. 
A decade ago, it might have been different. 
A new president recovering from the bullet wounds of an assassination attempt might have been able to press Congress to action on handgun controls. But the Reagan of 1981 opposed national gun control legislation, calling it a diversion from real action to combat crime. 
Reagan last week declared his support for a bill requiring a seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases. He did so at a George Washington Uni­versity ceremony marking the 1Oth anniversary of the shoot­ing that almost killed him and permanently disabled his press secretary, James Brady. 

It is called the Brady Bill, and Reagan said Congress should enact it without delay. "It's just plain common sense that there be a waiting period to allow lo­cal law enforcement officials to conduct background checks on those who wish to buy a hand­gun," the former president said. 
When he was in office, Rea­gan endorsed the idea of wait­ing periods, but he said they should be imposed by state Jaws, not by the federal gov­ernment. Sixteen states now require waiting periods. Where state laws match the week's wait required by the federal bill, it wouldn't apply. 
The waiting period is sup­
posed to provide time for a po­lice check to determine whether a buyer has a criminal record or a history of mental illness. 
The variance in state laws was never clearer than after John Hinckley Jr. bought a pis­tol in Texas, which doesn't re­quire a delay or background check, then fired it at Reagan in Washington on March 30, 1981. Hinckley said later he doubted he would have done it if he'd had to wait a week for the gun. 
Reagan said he had supported and signed a 15-day waiting period when he was governor of California. He didn't say yes or no when an earlier version of the Brady Bill was before the House in 198 8, during his second term. Others in his administration opposed the measure, which was rejected by a 36-vote margin. 
Reagan now favors a federal law to fill the gaps left by the states. He said he's still a member of the National Rifle Association and still supports a constitutional right to bear arms, but believes that with it "comes a great responsibility to use caution and common sense on handgun purchases." 
He also said that he'd always supported the idea of a waiting period, and "maybe there was some misunderstanding" about his earlier position. Maybe there was, but Reagan certainly didn't try to dispel it. 
He said as president that a federal handgun control law would be virtually unenforce­able. Better, he said, to stiffen penalties for criminals who use firearms in committing crimes. 

IRISH HEARTLIGHTS flL 
3 & 6 MILE FUN RUNS r:~~~~~r;N&os:~~~s ~ 
THURSDAY APRIL 11 5·30PM FOOD&REFRESHMENTS I 
' • SPONSORED BY I 
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES 
~====~~==========~~~~----------------~ 

NOW LEASING: 

is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 1 0 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot attend the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 
Rich Kurz #20 H8ppy Birthdny toR #1 Son 8nd Brother 
Mom, 08d, Cheri 8nd C8thi 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE AMENITIES INCLUDED: 
-WASHER AND DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR 
-PATIOS 

ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
--------------------------------~--------------------------~----------------------------------------­
Wednesday April 3, 1991 


~ 
Coal 
Vic Harding, a coal miner from Salesville, holds a sign promoting coal scrubbers at a Statehouse rally Monday. 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
Stating that the century's end is a good time for reflection, Marcilio Marques Moreira, Brazil's ambassador to the United States, discussed "Brazil on the Threshold of the Twentieth Century" in a lecture last Thursday. 
Moreira's lecture focused on the dramatic slump in Brazil's economy during the 1980's, as well as the country's prospects going into the next century. 
To highlight what Moreira called a "dismal" showing by Brazil's economy in the 1980's, he contrasted that decade against the fifty years preceding it. Moreira noted that Brazil came out of the Great Depression early, backed by strong industrial expansion, and experienced growth sur­passed only by Taiwan and Japan in per capita income. 
A string of almost fifty years of positive GNP growth came to an end in 1981. Moreira said this halt was caused by an oil shock and high interest rates in the late seventies. These high interest rates doubled Brazil's 
The Observer page 5 
Brazil seeks stabilized economy 

Now you can get impressive, professional­lookingdocuments without having to waitin long lines to use the laser printer over at the computer lab. 
The Personal LasetWriter'"LS printer is the most affordable Apple"' LasetWriterever. Ithas the power to let you produce crisp text and 
rich, high-definition grnphics at arate ofup to four pages per minute. 
And, perhaps best of all, its from Apple ­designed so nowyou can get everythingout of aMacintoshffi computer thatApple builtinto it. Not justthe power to look yourbest. The power to be yourbese 


NOTRE DAME COMPUTEU STORE 
Ofrice of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 llours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00-5:00 
© /99/ A{lfik 0Jmfluler. Inc. A{lfik. the ,4fiple kwo. Macintosh. l.aserWriler and "7be pou't'l' to beyour best" are registered tradmUirks ofApple Computer. Inc. 
foreign debt in four years. 
As an example of Brazil's economic woes, Moreira said that the country couldn't afford a census in 1990. He stated, "As ambassador, I don't even know the population right now." 
Moreira hypothesized about the "incredible example of a collapse of what was a compe­tent, modern state." He said it was possible that the economy was too successful and became "exhausted." 
The country's psyche has been damaged by Brazil's eco­nomic slump as well, said Moreira. People feel the country "is on the brink of an abyss," and have developed a "failure complex." Moreira said that even Brazil's literature has be­gun to reflect these feelings. 
However, Moreira said that Brazil is showing some "good signs"as well. The export-ori­ented private sector has sur­vived better than the state companies, he said. 
He said that the country's plants have not deteriorated and are still assets, and that the foreign debt can be resolved with a less than miraculous so­lution. The foreign trade sector has been reformed and the state's "beaurocratic hydras" have been dismantled. 
Moreira also saw progress from the 1988 constitution and from the attention being paid to social concerns that have long been ignored. 
Addressing the future, Moreira asked "Whither goes Brazil? Whither goes the world?" He said that with the globalization of financial mar­kets, Brazil must reenter the world economy with "a new model, more open, modern, and export oriented." 
Moreira said he was wary of the fragmentation of trade markets, such as the European Economic Community and in­clusive trade among the U.S., Canada and Mexico. He said Brazil was facing "the challenge of irrelevance" and that "the big problem is integration." 
Moreira said there were three levels to this integration. The first was among Latin American nations, and the second the integration of differing societies within Brazil. Finally was the integration of Brazil into the world economy. Moreira concluded that remaining economically autonomous was unrealistic. 
The lecture, held in Decio Faculty Hall, was sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Steinfels 
continued from page 1 
developments, American Catholics have adopted an "explicit and deep commitment to equality, tolerance, and hu­man rights and putting them into place -if not in the Church then in the world." 
Steinfels called the last twenty years of liberalism "bad liberalism" and used the term ")egalitarian liberalism" to de­scribe it. She said this form is far from the historical liberal­ism that she recalled as a child and the values which historical liberalism has formerly fought to protect. 
"Liberalism has been reduced to radical individualism," she said. This cramped, narrow vi­sion of liberalism "denies a ... teaching about an end," said Steinfels. Only an individual's right to determine his or her own end matters, she said. 
The political constraints in the Bill of Rights designed to limit the power of the state have placed social limitations on what the government can accomplish, Steinfels said. 
She used the recent showing of offensive photographs and flag burning as examples in which the government, in the name of civil liberties, was helpless to intervene. Steinfels emphasized the point by quot­ing a flag burner who said, "'The great thing about this country (is that) you can do anything."' 
The lecture was sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
Hikes 
continued from page 1 
"This is just another step in a number of economic measures by the government and in a short while I hope we will feel the results," said Gorbachev spokesman Vitaly lgnatenko. 
Prices doubled for milk, tripled for meat and quadru­pled for bread. 
A pound of beef rose from about one ruble to 3.5 rubles; cheese increased from 1.5 rubles to 3 rubles a pound. 

The Observer Wednesday April 3, 1991 
page 6 
Catholic schools seek enrollment, financial help through promotions 
BOSTON (AP) -America's Roman Catholic schools soon will be using billboards, T-shirts and newspaper ads to help boost enrollment and attract financial help. 
"We decided we should not hide our light under a bushel," said Sister Catherine McNamee, president of the National Catholic Educational Associa­tion, which announced the campaign Tuesday at its 88th annual convention and religious education conference. 
The ads will focus on the schools' high standardized test scores and low dropout rates, and their success in inner cities. 
"We're clearly on the way to a market-driven educational system in this country," said the Father Stephen O'Brien, ex­ecutive director of the Chief Administrators of Catholic Ed­ucation. "To compete in edu­cational choice, Catholic schools must tell the story of their academic excellence and values-based education." 
Its planners said that the 

promotion also has been timed 
to coincide with new support 
for giving tax relief to parents 
who choose parochial or private 
education. 
Under the slogan "Discover 

Catholic Schools," the campaign 
is meant to attract students, 
political support and financial 
contributions -especially from 
businesses that now aid 
troubled public schools. 
"Why throw good money after 

bad?" McNamee asked. "Why 
give it to the schools that are in 
the worst condition? Why not 
give it to the schools that have a 
proven record of quality?" 
Fathers and Brothers 

Through vision, work, and prayer they have given life to a great university, enriching our world with timeless values, caring service. 
Holy Cross also serves a variety of ministries: schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to the poor and others. 
For in[orm01ion ahoutthe one-year Candidate Progrum at Notre Dome write: 
Vocation Director Congregation of Holy Cross Box 54t Notre Dame. IN 46556 2t9 239-6385 
"Roosevelt's paralegal program was my stepping­stone to a rewarding career." 
Anne Hillard Legal Assistant 

Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts &: Wills Employee Benefits Plan 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Illinois 

• 
Effective employment assistance 

• 
Four-month day and eight-month evening classes 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 

• 
Student loans for qualified applicants 

• 
Spring and Summer terms begin in 


February and June A representative will be on the St. Mary's College campus Aprll4, 1991 and the University of Notre 
Dame campus on April 5, 1991. Please contact your placement office to schedule an appointment. 
For additional information, please call collect: 
Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant Program 430 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, IL 60605 (312) 341-3882 

A Rand Corp. study of 13 in­ner-city high schools in Wash­ington, D.C., and New York City found the public schools had an average graduation rate of 55 percent and a 642 average Scholastic Aptitude Test score out of a possible 1400. The Catholic schools in the study graduated 95 percent of their students and had an average SAT score of 815. 
Richard Miller, president of the American Association of School Administrators, said Catholic school students suc­ceed because their parents often take a more active role in their education than do parents of public school students. Catholic schools can be selec­tive about which students they accept, a luxury public schools don't have, he said. 
"The trouble is that they don't play on the same playing fields with the same ruies that many of the public schools have," Miller said. 
McNamee would not disclose how much the National Catholic Educational Association and the 
U.S. Catholic Conference were planning to spend on the campaign. 
It comes at a time when a trend of declining enrollment at the nation's nearly 9,000 Catholic schools is being re­versed, Catholic educators said. In 1988, there were 2.6 million students in Catholic schools, down from a peak of 5.6 million in more than 13,000 schools in 1964. 
But the number of students in Catholic preschools has gone up 187 percent and in kinder­gartens 16 percent since 1982. 
THE OF NOTRE 
DA~1E 

Funding remains a problem. 
A steady thinning of the ranks of priests and nuns has forced the schools to hire lay employees at a higher price. In­surance and maintenance costs have also drained their bud­gets. 
Catholic schools spend an av­erage of $1,476 a year per stu­dent and charge $924 in tu­ition. The difference comes from parish or diocesan subsi­dies, but shifts in Catholic pop­ulation have left inner-city Catholic schools without the congregations to support them. 
Catholic school teachers make an average of $16,000 a year, while public school teachers make $27,000, according to a study by the Brookings Insti­tution. 
Financial problems forced the Chicago archdiocese alone to shut down 30 schools in the last five years. Six new or con­solidated schools were opened. 
The promotion comes as Catholic schools contend with the realities that face their stu­dents: sex, AIDS, drugs, abuse and violence. 
"Catholic schools certainly don't inoculate kids from the diseases that are rampant in the society at large, but they do have the power to make a dif­ference in what they believe and how they behave," said Michael Guerra, executive director of the Catholic educators' secondary school 
department. 
,·· 


III 10 

REACH FORTHE POWER. 
TEACH. 
Are you creative, lllotivated and organized? 
Yes? 

That means you are qualified! 
Applications for the 1991-1992 yearbook staff are now available at the Student Activities Office. 315 LaFortune. Deadline has been extended to Wednesday April 3, 1991. 
Apply now-you're perfect for the job. 
YAK COURSE 
l i.::GISTRATION REQUIRED 
DEADLINE APRIL 3 
ALL NVA FOR MORE INFO 239-6100 

AP Photo
Good laugh 

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev welcomes former U.S. 



Wednesday April 3, 1991 The Observer page 7 

Airlines to begin raising ticket prices in next week after postwar discounts 
NEW YORK (AP) -After slashing fares to cure travelers of their war and recession jit­ters, airlines will begin raising most ticket prices next week. 
The changes won't eliminate all discounts, but they will in­crease fares for people who plan trips on short notice. 
Airlines scrambled Monday to get their new fare structure worked out. 
"It's going to be a process of everybody having to go through and sort out what's being done in each market," said an official with one large airline. 
As a general rule, the changes will raise the rates for travelers who provide either a seven-day or a 14-day notice, while offer­ing cheaper fares for people who can plan farther in ad­vance. The changes were first put in place by American Airlines. 
Despite the recent rash of fare cuts, experts said the in-
Kingwood Hospital, a psychiatric hospital in Michigan City, Indiana is looking for dependable, energetic students to work as Psych Techs in any of our three psychiatric units. We have an adult unit, a child/adolescent unit, and a substance abuse unit. Psych Techs assist the nurses in observing the patients and providing care within the limits set forth for them. 
If you are a student in psychiatric, counseling, nursing or mental health, we can offer "Pool" positions which can be worked around your school schedule. 
Call or send resume to: Human Resources 
Kingwood Hospital 
3714 South Franklin Street 
Michigan City, IN 46360 
(219)872-0531 

Beth Pare -liarpist. 
Repertoire: 
Jazz 
Oassical 
&cred 
&how Tunes Country Popular 
for: Receptions 
Recor~s 
family Celebrations Business Dinners Weddin8s 
842-4321

Y--------------------r· Producliorul 
creases were inevitable with airlines losing billions of dollars since the Persian Gulf crisis and the economic downturn cut deeply into the industry's revenues. 
"I think it makes a lot of sense," said Lee Howard, chief executive of Airline Economics Inc., an aviation consulting firm in Washington. "If you're going to give low fares, then you have to put sufficient restrictions on those ... or else your average fares will be so low you can't afford to operate." 
American said its cheapest fares would be for passengers who could provide 30 days' no­tice, but other major carriers later decided they would offer a cheap 21-day advance ticket. 
American had not decided by Monday night whether to go along with that aspect of the fare restructuring. 
A decision will have to come quickly, though, as the new fare structure takes effect next Tuesday, American spokesman Tim Smith said. 
American announced its new fee structure last month at the same time it unveiled the dis­count program that expires next Monday. Other airlines ini­tially balked at going along, and officials at some rivals said American was trying to push through a net price increase at a time when others were cut­ting fares. 
American said the fare re­structuring shouldn't be char­acterized as a fare increase be­cause of the discounts offered for tickets purchased far in ad­vance. But a spokesman ac­knowledged at the time that such sales were a minority of tickets sold. 
As the other airlines decided to go along, they steadfastly refused to make any predictions on what will happen to the price paid by most travelers. 

AP Photo

Daytime nightshift? 
Members of the Boots & Coots Co. oil fire fighting team work to weld a frame around a Caterpillar tractor in preparation for the fire fighting effort Monday. Heavy smoke from the fires turns daytime to darkness in this picture taken late in the morning. 
Japanese continues to buy foreign business 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Japan emerged in 1990 as the rising big spender in acquiring foreign business, and the United States was its preferred target, a new survey found. 
Japanese investors spent 
$18.04 billion to buy more than 
200 foreign companies. Of that 
total, $13.9 billion went for 121 
U.S. businesses, according to a tally of 18 major countries by KPMG Peat Marwick, the inter­national accounting firm. 
The survey was described by 
Herbert Adler, a Peat Marwick 
partner, in the 1991 edition of 
the firm's publication, 
"Dealwatch." 
"Japanese ... even became confident enough to make ac­quisitions in the face of local opposition," Adler said. 
He pointed out that ambitious companies want to establish themselves quickly in fast­growing foreign markets. Ac­quiring established firms gives them a bigger share of the market for their products, and a prospect of more profit with less competition. 
"When mentioning 'ambitious companies,' the Japanese are the first to come to mind," Adler said in a statement. "They have emerged as the world's newest 'high roller' in the international mergers and acquisitions game ..." 
Adler added in an interview last week that his firm's figures showed that Japan beat out Britain for first place among foreign investors in the United States last year. 
The rise of Japan's overall in­vestment in this country appar­ently went counter to the trend in real estate. A survey released last Wednesday by {(enneth 
Leventhal and Co., an account­
ing firm that specializes in real 
estate, said the Japanese 
bought $13.06 billion worth of 
property in 1990, down from 
$14.7 billion the year before. 
When investments of all kinds 
by the Japanese were taken 

into account. the results were 
different. 
"They have showed an over­

whelming preference for buying 
in the U.S.," Adler said. 
The biggest deal last year was the acquisition of MCA Inc.. the giant entertainment firm, by Matsushita for $6.6 billion. 
Britons had been in first place among foreigners investing in the United States in 1989 with $16.9 billion worth of pur­chases, followed by Japanese with $12.7 billion, Adler said. 
But in 1990 the British turned more to investment at home. They spent only $1 on foreign acquisitions for every $8 they spent on new plant and equip­ment in Britain. 
Although Japanese investors send a smaller proportion of their money abroad, they have more to invest; Japan's annual income is more than three times Britain's. 
Worldwide, Japanese in­vestors still ran second last yNtr to the British. Britons spent $20.024 billion on foreign investment, but their trend was down. Japanese buying rose in each of the last three years. 
The survey showed U.S. com­panies were also active in buy­ing up foreign firms. The sec­ond largest deal reported dur­ing the year was the purchase by Philip Morris of Switzer­land's Jacobs Suchard, a chocolate maker, for $3.8 bil­lion. 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday April 3,1991 

North Dakota governor vetos strictest anti-abortion bill, will 'not play God' 
capable of doing so if she Republican House majority
BISMARCK, N.D. (AP)-Gov. 
wanted an abortion. leader, said an override vote
George Sinner on Monday ve­
Officials of Americans United could be held Tuesday but likely
toed what would have been the 
for Life, a Chicago-based anti­will be delayed until
strictest anti-abortion bill in the 
abortion group that lobbied for Wednesday.
nation. 
the bill, were disappointed.
The bill would have banned 
"We thought it had a reason­Sinner, a Roman Catholic and
abortions except in cases of 
able chance of being upheld by father of 10 who once consid­
rape, incest or if the mother's 
the Supreme Court," said Paige ered studying to be a priest, re­life were in danger. 
Cunningham, an attorney with ferred to statements on abor­
"History is full of accounts of 
the organization. The veto tion from eight religious de­
the misuse of governmental 
"sacrifices the life of children of nominations in his four-page
power, often for a 'good' 
North Dakota," Cunningham veto message.
cause," the Democratic gover­
said. 
nor said in his veto message, 
''I'm very relieved and "Although throughout history 
issued less than two hours after 
pleased," said Jane Bovard, Catholic writings on when life
he formally received the bill. 
administrator of North Dakota's begins vary widely, I agree with
"Such abuse must be resisted 
only abortion clinic, in Fargo. the current Catholic judgment
vigorously on both sides," 
The state reported 1, 761 that abortion is wrong," Sinner
Sinner said. "Government must 
abortions in 1989, the most re­said. "The issue here, however,
not overstep its bounds. It must 
cent year for which statistics is the role of law." 
not play God." 
are available.
Sinner, who said he is per­
Kate Michelman, executive di­The legislation declares that
sonally against abortion, was 
rector of the Washington-based life begins at conception, but
barred by the North Dakota 
National Abortion Rights Action many people dispute when life
Constitution from threatening a 
League, called the veto a begins, Sinner said. 
veto. He said earlier that the 
"responsible act of govern­
bill went "too far." 
ment." "Government policy must find
Under the legislation, rapes 
The measure goes to the North a balanced way which respects
leading to pregnancy would 
Dakota House for an attempt to the freedom of women in this
have had to be reported within 
override the veto. difficult area," he said. "This
21 days of the crime or within 
Rep. Richard Kloubec, the bill does not do so." 
15 days of when the victim was 
AP Photo

Here's the proof 
American+ 
Red Cross
President Bush holds up a red snapper caught by his wife Barbara Monday on a fishing trip off Islamorada, Fla. while on vacation. 

WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN STUDENT 
is currently accepting applications for the 
following position: 
GOVERNMENT?? 
MEET NEW AND INTERESTING PEOPLE?? 
Day Editor 
APPLY TO BE NEXT YEAR'S HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL 
For more information contact 
EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR OR 
239-7471 or 283-4624
Dannika

SECRETARY!! 
APPLICATIONS MAY BE PICKED UP FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE 
ZJpcoming Events 
DUE APRIL 8TH. 


Lectures 
THURSDAY, APRI!-_4
TRADE IN YOUR CAP AND GOWN 
MOHAMED SID-AHMED 
Foreign affairs editorial writer for
AT JORDAN'S AUTOMALL 
AI Ahram, Cairo, Egypt 
'THE MIDDLE EAST CRISES AND A 
NEW WORLD ORDER" 
7:30 p.m. -Auditorium of the new Hesburgh Center 
FRIDAY, APRIL 5 
JUAN SOMAVIA Chilean Ambassador to the United Nations
FOR SOME DRIVING GLOVES 
'THE U.N. AND A NEW WORLD 
ORDER" 

Ford Credit puts qualified college graduates in the fast lane with the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. Jordan's Automall can arrange special fmancing through Ford Credit 
7:30 p.m. -Auditorium of the new 
Hesburgh Center
and $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company. 
Here's all you have to do to qualify: graduate with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between 
* * * 

October 1, 1989 and December 31, 1991; have verifiable employment beginning within 120 days of vehicle purchase; have a salary sufficient to cover living expenses as well as a car payment. 
Reception following each lecture in Although a prior credit history isn't necessary, ifyou have one, it must be satisfactory to Ford Credit. 
the Great Hall outside the Auditorium 
So get a compartment for your driving gloves. Visit Jordan's Automall and take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. 
INSTITUTE FOR
FORD CREDIT GETS YOU GOING. 
INTERNATIONAL 
~s;~·· FORD
JORDAN'S
Ford 



111111 ~!!;!o~~?~:
Credit 609 E. Jefferson at Cedar, Mishawaka 
MERCURY 
.:,r,;~

259-1981 Toll-Free 1-800-837-1981 
Ll NCOLN
Hours: M, Tu, Th 8-9; W, F, Sa 8-6 

Wednesday April 3, 1991 The Observer page 9 
American Express AnnouncesAGreat New Travel Program 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Now students can get the Card 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa· There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Expressscard. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place you(! like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit If it's on vour side of the Mississippi River, you Card now wh:Ie you're still in school than it may can use a certJficate to tly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
NO-based company will help develop an early detection test for Alzheimer's 
Special to The Observer 
A Notre Dame-based bio­pharmaceutical company, American Biogenetic Sciences, Inc., (ABS) will collaborate in the development of a test for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease. 
The approach for early screening of Alzheimer's was discovered by I toward Voorheis, a professor at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland. 
Voorheis detected a natural body chemical which appears to incn~ase substantially in people with Alzheimer's disease. He hopes to develop a test to mea­sure the chemical in patients· using a monoclonal antibody derived at Notre Dame from ABS's antigen-free mouse colony. 
The chemical identity of the substance will not be discussed until the patent process has been completed. 
Voorheis and ABS emphasize that the research does not offer a cure or therapy. However, one of the difficulties in finding and testing treatments for patients with Alzheimer's disease has been that the condition is difficult to diagnose in its early stages. 
ABS hopes the test will make it possible to screen large popu­lations rapidly without side ef­fects, detect the disease early and assess treatment strategies for patients before progression of the disease. 
The Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Associates estimates that four million Americans have the disease. It is the fourth leading cause of death in country, after heart disease, cancer and stroke. 
ABS specializes in the devel­opment and commercialization of monoclonal antibody-based products for diagnosing, pre­venting and treating cardiovas­cular disease. 
ABS scientists are also devel­oping a recombinant vaccine for Hepatitis A and a monoclonal antibody-based test that detects blood clot formation. 

A Fresno Police department bomb squad officer works on defus­ing one of several bombs found at the Internal Revenue Service complex in Fresno, Calif., Monda . 
Membership Has Its Privileges• 

page 10 The Observer Wednesday April 3, 1991 

Rally again 
AP Photo 

s.upporters of the Democratic Party of Albania sign the victory be­
hind the fence at Democratic headquarters in Tirana Monday, one 
day after the first free election in Albania after 46 years. 
Feminist talk planned 
Special to The Observer University. Next year she will be the Abba Hillel Silver associate professor of Judaic studies in Jewish feminist Susannah the department of religion at 
Protests, street fighting erupt over vote-rigging in Albanian elections 
SHKODRA, Albania (AP) -A seats and the National Veterans on their sides. morning of street fighting Committee, a Communist front, A pile of books, documents Tuesday following protests over won one. Nineteen seats will be and furniture stripped from the alleged vote-rigging left three at stake in a runoff next party building burned into the people dead and a local Sunday. night on the square. Communist Party office in Tuesday evening, about 40 Large-caliber machine gun northern Albania a smoking baton-waving riot police bullet casings were scattered ruin. Dozens were reported in­charged a crowd of about 1,000 about on the ground of this city jured in post-election unrest in people outside Democratic of 78,000 residents. at least five towns and villages. Party headquarters in Tirana. The Interior Ministry said in a 
Hundreds of riot police firing Witnesses watching from party statement in Tirana that the live ammunition restored order headquarters said some people anti-Communist crowd was en­by late afternoon in the center were badly beaten. dangering the lives of those in­of Shkodra, Albania's fifth most Police withdrew after half an side the Shkodra party building. populous city, in the first hour and the crowd began to For these reasons, the state­violence linked to the Balkan gather once more. At least two ment said: "The police were nation's multiparty elections. other clashes were reported obliged to open fire .... The sit­
The violence was considered between stone-throwing youths uation is tense." to bode ill for Albania in the and riot police. Thousands of protesters led light of the Communists elec­Scattered violence and hy high school students had toral victory Sunday in this protests occurred earlier in El­gathered early Tuesday outside poor, mountainous nation of 3 basan, where an unexploded the Communist headquarters to million people wedged between bomb was found and defused; protest what they claimed was Yugoslavia and Greece. in Vaqarr, where the chairman vote-rigging in Sunday's elec­
Officials in the capital, Tirana, of the opposition party was tion, witnesses said. released final results of the beaten; and in Kavaje, Demo­elections. The Party of Labor, cratic Party spokesman Gene It was the second such protest the official name of the Polio said in Tirana. in two days in Shkodra, even Communist Party, won 162 of In front of the gutted four­though the opposition the 250 seats, the Central Elec­story Communist headquarters Democrats won the city and tion Commission reported. in Shkodra were the charred most other population centers 
The opposition Democratic remains of two armored per­but lost nationwide due to Party won 65 seats, an ethnic sonnel carriers and three mili­overwhelming rural support for Greek minority party won three tary trucks torched and turned the Communists. 
·--------------------------------------~
: 20% Discount : I TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY : 
I I 
Hesche! will present her views on Christian feminism at 8 pm on April 8 in the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
The annual Liss lecture, this year titled "Christian Feminism from a Jewish Feminist Perspective," is sponsored by the department of theology. 
Hesche! is currently an assis­tant professor of Judaica in the department of religious studies at Southern Methodist Case Western Reserve University. 
In 1989 Hesche! received her doctorate in religious studies from the University of Pennsylvania. Her book "On Being a Jewish Feminist: A Reader" was published in 1982 and she co-authored "Critical Issues in Modern Religion" in 1989. Hesche! has also pub­lished articles in scholarly journals. 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
-~ ­-
~ ­

Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder 
1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates 

North of McDonald's 277-1161 
Summer 
lhe Advertising tducation roundation Abassador Program
STORAGE 
and 

RESERVATION [ 683-1959 J 
lhe College of Business AdministrationIs Department of MarKeting 
• APPitOX 2 1/2 MII..ES NOit'l'll US 31-33 
Presents:

Master Mini War<'hou~cs 
Sophomores!! 1992 JPW 

Richard C.
Chairperson 
Applications 
Ward 
Available 
President, Ross Roy Communications, Inc. 
..The Facts About Ethics In 
Student Activities 3rd Floor 
Advertising.. LaFortune 
April 4, 1991 • 7:30 pmDeadline: Friday, 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium April 12 


Wednesday April 3, 1991 The Observer page 11 
One-third of U.S. troops have left the Persian Gulf 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Almost been sent back to their home rying it back to base stations, one-third of the U.S. troops bases and 4,500 to 5,000 addi­Hall said. deployed to the Persian Gulf for tional troops are leaving daily, At its peak, there were ap­Operation Desert Storm have spokesman Bob Hall told re­proximately 540,000 troops left the region, a Pentagon porters. deployed to the gulf. spokesman said Tuesday. In addition, 24 ships have Hall also announced that the 
Some 167,000 troops have been loading equipment or car-total of allied contributions to 
THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE 
A NEW COURSE FOR SUMMER SESSION 1991 
TAUGHT BY PROF. JOHN CAVADINI 
(This course replaces THEO 227 and fulfills the second theology requirement) 
THEO 250 • ROADS TO GOD. Call #0537. 10:20-11:20 MTWHF 
This course is, from the point of view of chronology, a sequel to the First Course in Theology. It covers representatives of theological traditions from the sixth to the seventeenth centuries. Our focal point for the consideration of these theologies will \>e the question of human awareness of God. What is the character of it? How is it acquired? Is it appropriately called "knowledge" of God? If so, how is it related to faith? We will consult a variety of texts to assist in our reflection on these questions, including readings from Gregory the Great, Benedict, Bernard of Clairvaux, Anselm, Hildegard, Francis and Clare of Assisi, Bonaventure, Aquinas, Dante, The Cloud of Unknowing, Julian of Norwich, Luther, Teresa of Avila, Pascal, and others. 
THE NOTRE DAlvlE COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVEWPMENT 
invites you to attend s. speciBl one hour 
SPRING FORUivl 
on 

EASTERN EUROPE: 
THE TRANSITION TO 
A MARKET ECONOMY 
featuring PROFESSOR WOLDZIMIERZ SIWINSKI VICE PRINCIPAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WARSAW 
THURSDAY} APRIL 4th 7:00p.m. 124 HAYES-HEALY 
the war has increased to $30.8 billion, including recent contri­butions from the United Arab Emirates, Germany and South Korea. 
The spokesman, asked about Iraqi complaints about U.S. overflights, said the air patrols would not be halted. The com­plaint came amid continued turmoil inside Iraq as Saddam Hussein's forces attempted to quell Kurdish and Shiite unrest. 
"We reserved the right to overfly, to keep an air cap over Iraq ... as part of the suspension of hostilities.... So that will continue," Hall said. 
The spokesman said it ap­peared that Iraqi military forces occupied all the major cities. 
"There are still some signs of unrest in rural areas and the military moves in large units for their own protection," he said. 
There was "heavy fighting" in northern Iraq over the week­end, the spokesman said, adding that military force:; have retaken the cities of Kfrkuk, Dahuk and Zakhu. 
The Iraqi military has sur­rounded Arbil and while it claims control of it, Hall said, "basically our understanding is they are essentially around the 
c"...,.,.""'''...'~'"' 
liMITID lliP~ISI 0 
. 

ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage 
Reserve Your Space Now! 
city right now." 
Hall said Kurdish forces have largely withdrawn into the mountains "in face of superior fire power.... The Kurds do control some smaller cities and towns in the mountain regions, and they do control one provin­cial capital," Al-Sulaymaniyah. 
The spokesman said U.S. of­ficials had no confirmation of any fixed-wing aircraft flights. nor any Iraqi use of chemical weaponry against the rebels. 
Asked about the undeter­mined number of Iraqi soldiers that have moved within 1,000 yards of the Kuwaiti-Iraqi bor­der, the spokesman repeated a statement of Central Command headquarters that U.S. officials had asked the Iraqi military to remove those Iraqi soldiers. 
There are about 100,000 U.S. troops in the ill-defined border region between Iraq and Kuwait that patrol a demilita­rized zone established by the temporary cease-fire. 
"We've notified the Iraqi mili­tary that they're there and re­minded them of their obligation to enforce the demarcation line ... and asked them to remove the soldiers. And we expect them to comply," Hall said. 


North Side of 
Douglaa Rd . Between Grape Rd. and St. Rd. 23 

NQ Administration Fee 
NQ Deposits 
NQ Increased Rents for Students 
NQ Worries about Break­Ins While on Vacations YES_Security System YES On Site Manager YES Free Locks for 
Students YES Low Prices YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 
I 

---~~---~---~--~------------·-------------------------­
Wednesday, April 3, 1991page 12 The Observer 

In the business world, you run across _many means of communicating. 

~\\((tfJ/(J,'f//1'/#T~ 



The Apple SuperDrive is part of every Macintosh computer sold today. This 
disk drive can not only read Macintosh diskettes, but also diskettes used in IBM 
or IBM compatible computers. That means that you can take your friend1s 
diskette with a Lotus file created on an IBM computer and pop it into your 
Macintosh. With Apple File Exchange, a software program shipped with every 
Macintosh, you can quickly transfer the Lotus file to a Macintosh file so it can be 
used with your favorite Macintosh spreadsheet application. 
If you really want to rnn applications you use on your IBM or IBM 
compatible computers, you can do so by adding either software or hardware to 
your Macintosh. 

Bottom line, the Macintosh is the best of both worlds. lt1s multi-lingual! 
This week, anyone can enter into the free drawing of a Mac SF/30, by registering in the computer lab ofHayes-Healy. The drawing is on April 18th, and you must be present to win. 
Maximize Your Potential. Macintosh. 

G R 0 U P 
....-....&. -·---.....--.
0----------------·· 
Wednesday April 3, 1991 
Campus scare flares after communication experiment 
TERHE HAUTE, Ind. (AP) ­When an Indiana State Univer­sity professor tried to demon­strate nonverbal communica­tion, she never suspected it would set off a campus scare and send police racing to her classroom. 
Vonne Muessling, an associate professor of communications, was teaching her graduate class Monday afternoon when a male student entered the classroom apparently with a plastic replica of a handgun. said Chris Lester, director of campus Safety and Security. 
A female student ran from the 
room and telephoned campus 
security. Campus police re­
spondP.d to the call of "man 
with a gun in a classroom," 
Lnster said. 
Two police officers were dis­
patclwd. one on foot patrol and 
another in a police car with red 
lights and siren. 
Lester said the incident ap­parently involved a class study on death. dying and fear. 
"I am not amused by this," he added. "I find this deeply dis­turbing for students and more disturbing for police officers who had to respond to the call." 
Cecilia O'Brien. a student who was working in the library science area. said she hid under a desk after the female student ran into the area to call police. 
"I was petrified," she said. She called the incident "pretty unethical." 
Muessling described the ex­periment as an "innovative study." She said some of the students in the class were in­volved with the project and knew what was really happen­ing, but others did not. 
She said it shows "silence 
does speak. We know nonverbal 
communication is very impor­
tant." 

Attention Sophomores and Juniors interested in the 
page 13
The Observer 


Apple honors Van Hoof 
Special to The Observer 
Tony Van Hoof, interactive media consultant for the Office of University Computing (OUC). has been named an Apple Teaching Fellow by Apple Computer, Inc., for his work in the area of interactive media at the Notre Dame. 
Van Hoof designed and im­plemented OUC's Interactiv,e Media Lab as a resource for the ND faculty. The lab helps faculty members explore the use of interactive media technology in their curriculum to improve the learning experience of their students. 
Van Hoof and the department 
of educational media are also 
testing technologies for use in 
the DeBartolo classroom build­
ing. 
Apple Teaching Fellows must 
have an expertise in a specific 
curricular area, grade level, 
software application or admin­
istrative planning and man­
agement of technology. 
Participants are invited to 
share their expertise through 
speaking engagements, 
consulting, and teacher 
training. 

HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
BILL WHITLATCH 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of 
APRIL 27 

deadline dates and the Fall application process on Thursday, April 4, 1991 
5:30 p.m. 101 Law School 
BILL,

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of inform~tion may be 
CLARE,

obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meetmg date. LYNN & 
DANNY 




rr=~~===============~======~---~-=--~-~===-==~~--~~====~ 
MEHARRY MEDICAL CoLLE:GE 
Graduate Studies in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 
At Meharry Medical College, graduate programs are available in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology leading to the Ph.D. degree. Opportunities exist for research in: 
• 
molecular biology-molecular genetics 

• 
membrane biophysics 

• 
transmembrane signalling, extracellular matrix and growth factor reserach 

• 
enzymology and structure-function relationships in macromolecules 

• 
cellular and metabolic regulation 

• 
cell biology of cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions 

• 
molecular virology 


• 
molecular neuroscience 

• 
regulation of gene expression 


Tuition suppr~n is provtd~d tor all qnalified students, in addition to an annual stipend of up to $11,000. 
Meharry Med1cal College 1s a historically black institution. 
,-----------------------------------, 
Addre~ I 
MEIIARRY MEDICAL CollEGE  1  
Forfurther information  Fellowships For Graduate Studles In Biochemistry And Molecular Biology  1  
complete and mat/form to:  ~~ Name ________________Telephone  I I  
lfeanyi j. Arinze, Ph.D.  I  

Chairman 
I

Dept. of Biochemistry City, State, Zip ------------------------------------------­
I

Meharry Medical College 
I am inter~sted in graduate study beginnin.o----------Faii/Sprin.o-------I
Nashville, TN 37208 to pursue Ph.D. M.S. 1

Tel: (615) 327-6345 

I receive (expect to receive) the -------------degree in 1 Please send me appltcatton materials. 1
L__________________ 
_j 


Viewpoint
page 14 Wednesday, April 3, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••...........•.••..••• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .........•••.•••••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor •........••.•••David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor •••.•..........•..•• John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

will have to edit it to fill our space. 
DOONESBURY 
50. BOOPSI&! l£T'5 /AJ/U, THe MAlUS 5TART WITH YO(Jl BEZNAUTT£13 HAV£3 YOU AND SUJIA/. I U/ANTW8.[). Bl3fiN STAY­7D MAK& 51./f?E IN6 IN 7VU()-{ ~ IT(3{)T THeRE 
I BY~. 
' 
'' 1AAT NUMP:f.R AGAIN IS .... n 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reader questions truthfulness of co-ed housing proponents' motives 
Dear Editor: the generations of men who Catholics) who has had premar­
"In the spring a young man's attended Notre Dame before it ital sex knows there is some­fancy lightly turns to thoughts of became co-ed, and who, alas, thing wrong with it-our con­love," (Tennyson). At Notre were deprived the opportunity science reminds us of this, even Dame, oddly enough, our fancy of forming friendships with if the agents are not fully cog­translated into co-ed dorm women. Did they turn out to be nizant of the exact reasons for fever. Perhaps the following social morons? The proponents its wrongness. Continued abuse remarks may serve as a cure. of co-ed dorms should ask some of the inherent goodness of 
In the first place, a main part of their fellow students whose sexuality, of course, tends to of the argument for co-ed fathers went here, and who are mute the beckonings of con­dorms is that "everyone else is now for the most part happily science. doing it." In fact, all the great married. But until this happens people universities have this system, Moreover, it if is difficult for will seek rationalizations, of and everyone knows that it is men or women at this college to almost any form, for their ba­Notre Dame's devout wish to be form friendships with members havior: no one likes to live with accounted with them. Perhaps of the opposite sex, one might a sullied conscience. co-ed habitation is even a part ask whether the source of this Furthermore, co-ed habitation of their recipe for success. difficulty lies elsewhere than would necessarily lead to a re­
Without being sentimental, I with the housing situation. Per­laxed sense of morality. would like to reply that, at this haps we are experiencing now a Fornicators would then shrug very time, Notre Dame already general crisis in the area of their moral shoulders at the is the greatest university in the friendship. promptings of their conscience, land. No. I'm not speaking aca­A friend is another self­saying that they couldn't resist demically. But due to the someone whose interest, wor­the temptation -it won't be Catholic nature (or at least what ries, defeats, victories, etc. are their falut if student housing remains of it) of this University really and literally indistin­has put so many occasions of it is possible for our students to guishable from one's own. But, sin at their fingertips. make a pretty good start on the given the rampant materialistic I submit then that a basic path to wisdom -something individualism in our society, reason people push for co-ed far more important than mere how many such friends, of the housing is simply to make sex learning. Sure we could imitate same sex even, do people have? more readily available and thus other schools in some respects; It is true then that putting men less morally burdensome. All but we've got a lock on the most and women in the same dorm, their rhetoric about "forming Dear Editor: Education Auditorium. 
important truths, so why should and hence in close proximity, friendships" is (perhaps unwit­Tonight we will offer our As our term comes to an end, we indiscriminately follow those would probably increase the tingly) a great masquerade. 
closing remarks at the last we would like to thank all of 
less fortunate than ourselves? 
number of "shallow" relation­So have a great spring. Let Student Body Address of our those individuals who were in­
Secondly, proponents of co-ed ships with memebers of the op­your hearts turn to thoughts of term. During the Address, we volved in student governmenthousing often state that the posite sex. But if this general love. "But let not the fevers will deliver our closing speech this year. But most of all, we purpose of a college education crisis in friendship is real, co-ed thereoV be of lust insane and 
in which we will evaluate our would like to thank the studentconsists, at least in part, in ac­habitation will not serve to not of love." 
term. Also at this time, the new body for giving us the opportu­quiring social skills. But I had create and foster true friend­Student Body President and nity to serve as Student Bodyalways thought that the purpose ships between the sexes. 
Vice President, Joseph Blanco President and Vice President. 
was to learn. A university is I haven't even mentioned sex Paul Corintha and Dave Florenzo, will for­Thank You. 
only accidentally a place to form yet. But now is the time for Off-Campus mally begin their 1991-1992 
friendships. Let us only consider that. Everyone (and not just March 22, 1991 term with opening remarks and 
an opportunity for questions Robert F. Pasin The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the 
and answers. We urge you to Student Body President attend the Address at 7:00 p.m. Fred Tombar Ill 
Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we 


in the Center for Continuing Student Body Vice President GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY  
ItASTeR .•  
WHAT'D  'Meglio essere ricco di sangue  
Y(JJGET? I  che di moneta.'  
Italian Proverb  
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND.IN 46556  

Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 3, 1991 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND educator responds to professors' contentions 
The fact that Notre Dame's PLO is interested in peace." Talhami's is not, also corrobo­to an earlier misguided
Patrick D. Gaffney
Year of Women coincides with Then, turning from this charge, rates this interpretation. But the correspondent whose limited
Guest Columnist 
the crisis in the Gulf is probably they go off in their own direc­bare fact is, these are not my acquaintance with Arabic accidental. llowtwer, my train­tion lashing out at the PLO by remarks, but quite definitely names, among other things, led
In journalistic shorthand one
ing as a cultural anthropologist asserting as facts an assortment those of Talhami, whom I re­him, revealingly, to make this
might describe this in various
has lately nudged me to recon­of highly debatable re­gard highly as a scholar and a same gender error. 
ways. Correspondent Joel
sider this assumption as I detect criminations which seem to spokesperson for human rights, Then again, a week letter, in
Brinkley recently put it thus in 
a pattern emerging that have little in common except the but nonetheless, whose views the letter by Professor
The New York Times (March
suggests a still nebulous con­implied vilification of are quite her own. Hochberg-Halton (The Observer, 
11): "A year ago, Mr. Shamir
nection between them. Several Palestinians generally. Even as I fully respect the Feb. 14) to which Professors
scuttled the proposal just as an
limns in recent weeks public Leaving aside these unquali­right of Brooks and Bartky to Brooks and Bartky directly
invitation by Mr. Baker seemed
remarks by two rnspected aca­fied extrapolations, the challenge my credibility and as I refer, an allusion to the
to move the plan forw·ard." If
demic women regarding con­paramount point rests with the freely acknowledge my own controversy over that Prof.
further evidence is desired as to
nicts in the Middle East have slippage that occurs between fallibility, is there not room here Talhami as female and not male
who is was that Baker himself
occasioned exceptionally lively this restatement by Brooks and to suggest to them that the shoe is explicitly repeated in the very 
considered responsible for the
debate in these pages. But now Bartky and the actual text of the may be on the other foot and first sentence. 
breakdown of this attempted
a new phase of this valuable jointly-authored letter. First, perhaps further, if the shoe fits, Hence after having failed to
negotiating process one may
discussion has commenced as nowhere in that letter is it ever wear it. In my bewilderment at properly identify Professor
recall his speech last June 13
Professors Brooks and Bartky said that only the PLO is this unadorned mis­Talhami's gender after consid­
before the House Foreign
combine these cases for the first interested in peace. For what­representation I went back to erable public reiteration of the
Affairs Committee. On that oc­
lime. ever reason, Brooks and Bartky the letter of Maura O'Siochain fact scattered throughout the
casion, after forcefully criticiz­
In their sweeping rebuttal, have simply and erroneously to see whether some ambiguity very reportage that would seem
ing Israel for stalling on talks
bordering on invective, (The added this embellishment. But in her phrasing might have led perforce to have constituted the
with Palestinians he ended by
Obsnrver, March 8) which ap­secondly, they subtly but very Brooks and Bartky unwittingly basis for Professors Brooks and
challenging Israel: "When
parently seeks to set the record significantly twist the import of to this error. But her framing of Bartky's learned declarations,
you're serious about peace, call
straight, at least to their satis­the other allusion by their the citation could hardly be the question of just how much
us."

faction. they refer first to an choice of paraphrasing. clearer: "Professor Talhami confidence one should place in
Turning to the second woman
exchange initiated by Professor To be quite precise, after articulately stated that their overall commentary on
with whom Professors Brooks
Carla Johnson dealing with the noting that the PLO officially Palestinians in the occupied her remarks is very great
and Bartky concern themselves,
stated views of Mr. Khalil Azar recognized Israel in 1988 in an territories nave suffered 'every indeed. So much for credibility. 
Professor Ghada Talhami, con­
and to a jointly authored re­effort to advance the peace human right violation ..."' In conclusion, I would like to
fusion and distortion once again
sponse (The Observer, Feb. 12) process, the jointly-authored It is difficult for me to fathom thank Professors Brooks and
hamper their arguments. In
which they call an "attack" by letter says: "However, the how I could be credited with Bartky for contributing to an
their broad dismissal of any
person "willing to sacrifice rea­Israeli government still refused these remarks, regardless of my open discussion of Middle East
parallel between the treatment 
son and accuracy for what they to negotiate or even to accept views about them, except for a issues, for the problem of
of Kuwaitis and Palestinians in
takt~ to bt~ right." Baker's peace plan." case of severe carelessness defining America's role in the
their respective occupied land,
Then secondly, Professors The semantic distinction here concerning this source and I region has never been more ur­
they assert the following:
Brooks and Bartky direct their between "rejecting" and not suspect others as well. gent. The end of this recent war
" ... Gaffney, in defense of his
indignation allegedly in the "accepting" may strike most There is however a second leaves sides polarized, it ap­
own credibility, aligns himself 
nanw of "eivility and reason" Americans as a quibble unwor­possibility which might account pears, but the goal of mutual
with Ghada Talhami who is also
against Professor Ghada thy of further discussion. I only for this outstanding error but it recognition and security for all
cited by Maura O'Siochain for
Talhami (which includes a con­wish it were so. But unfortu­is, if anything, even more em­in the region must renew our
his statement that the
fusing reference to myselO for nately, as anyone initiated into barrassing. It might have been determination to overcome
Palestinians have suffered at
having dared to compare the the history of contemporary that Brooks and Bartky, despite fears and stereotypes. 
the hands of Israel 'every hu­
sufftlring of Palestinians at the Middle East diplomacy knows, their alleged wide acquaintance Let me close, by returning to 
man rights violation ..."' 
hand of Israel with that of to ignore this apparent splitting with matters associated with the year's theme with a tribute
To begin, as the simplest
Kuwaitis under Iraqi occupa­of hairs has too often led to the Palestinians are unaware of to another women, namely
matter of accuracy, especially
tion. serious and terrible misun­the fact that this common Felicia Langer, an Israeli lawy.T 
since Brooks and Bartky pro­
Unfortunately, in the course of derstandings. Arabic name, Ghada, is and Holocaust survivor who has
claim "academic responsibility"
things. Professors Brooks and Whether we like it or not, one feminine. But if this perhaps devoted her distinguished
to be their highest motive in this 
Bartky indulge in a number of of the current major obstacles understandable cultural lacuna career largely to the defense of
discussion, there is a critical
gratuitous disparaging ad to a negotiated settlement be­on their part is the case, it ex­Palestinians within the Israeli 
error, indeed, a howler, in the
hominnn rllmarks about the tween Palestinians and Israelis poses a no less serious liability justice system. 
above remark of theirs for
seven co-signers of the response hinges on the burial of issues of in their presentation. For Last year she resigned from
which I can only see one of two 
to Professor Carla Johnson's substance under mountains of starters, it proves that neither this work in protest against the
possible explanations. 
original letter (The Observer procedure and it was exactly a of them were present at the continuing mistreatment they
First, it may be that my es­
Feb. 1) using such unsavory manoeuvre of this sort that led teach-in to hear her actual re­were accorded. "I want my
teemed colleagues have unac­
terms as "narrow minded," to the undermining of the Baker marks. quitting to be a sort of demon­
countably and grossly misat­
"onH-sided" and "hypocritical." plan last year. But even if Brooks and Bartky stration," she said, "that some­
tributed to me this citation from 
But thtly raise only one specific There is certainly plenty of did obtain the raw material for thing must be done to grant
a January teach-in, which they
point that actually appears in blame to go around when it their righteous pontifications protection to Palestinians in the
noted came from Maura
this jointly-authored letter, comes to pointing fingers at upon this woman's views from occupied territorit~s. because for 
O'Siochain's letter (The
which by the way contains no Arabs, Israelis and indeed second-hand reports, it so Palestinians, unfortunately, we
Observer, Feb. 14). Since
such derogatory language about Americans for having failed to happens that this mistake of cannot obtain justice." May this
"Gaffney" is patently the only
persons but rather pleads that bring this problem to a just and their's over her gender has an hopefully only momentary
masculine antecedent in the 
we "listen to others with care equitable resolution long ago. immediate precedent which retreat of her's encourage all of
sentence, by the most funda­
and respond reflectively and But it is generally agreed by would have immediately come us who pray for the peace of
mental rules of grammar,
prudently." professional observers in this to the attention of anyone Jerusalem to strive with open
Brooks and Bartky are making
In their single direct reference instance, that while Israel's conscientiously reviewing rele­minds, courageous hearts and a 
me the author of this statement
to that jointly-authored letter, government did initially and vant items published lately in generous, honest acceptance of
cited.

Professors Brooks and Bartky nominally approve the Baker The Observer. For example, one differences of opinion. 
I might add that the rest of
contend that it states "that plan, they ended by backing letter of Feb. 7, which was ac­Patrick D. Gaffney, CSC is an
their paragraph, where my
Israel had rejected the Baker away from it causing the pro­companied by a related editorial associate professor in the De­
name is mentioned again, but 
peace plan and that only the cess to collapse. cartoon, responds quite clearly partment ofAnthropology. 
Volunteer project helps exploited migrant farmworkers 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing as a graduate of Notre Dame (class of '90). My purpose is to draw your atten­tion to a rather silent and invis­ible form of injustice which ex­ists in the United States: the exploitation of migrant farmer­workers by our nation's fruit and vegetable producing indus­try. Yet, this is not my only purposP.; I wish to offer a means through which you, as individual Christians, may re­spond to the radical social call­ing of our Chruch and begin the work of progressive social change. 
Currently, I am a stipended volunteer with the Migrant Farmworkers Project based in Kansas City, Missouri. Each summer we open an office in the southeastern corner of Mis­souri in the town of Malden. To this region, the Delta plains of the Mississippi River, come nearly 1500 migrant workers and their families. They come from their hometowns in southern Texas, Mexico and Florida to harvest the cucum­bers, watermelons, peaches; to chop weeds in the cotton fields; and to wait-for more work, for housing, for food, for a way out. 
Migrant farmworkers (a. k. a. stoop laborers, hand pickers. etc.) emerge from the poorest of North America's poor. One farmer told me in a moment of particular candor, "unless they've got a starving family back in Mexico somewhere, they won't do the work." Of course their wages reflect their desperate circumstances rang­ing from $2 per hour to $6 or $7 per hour. This wide variation in pay derives from the fact that many workers are paid by the amount which they pick-inexperienced workers will not earn minimum wage in most cases. Additionally, the federal minimum wage laws ex­empt some growers from having to insure that everyone receives the minimum. 
Worker endure a host of other hardships: substandard housing at inflated prices, un­healthy working conditions (high temperatures, prolonged exposure to pesticides. constant stooping, lack of toilet and lavatory facilities). language barriers between them and their employer ... the list could be lengthened. Perhaps these realities tweak a deep-seeded sense of injustice within one or two of you. Perhaps you have experience with migrant farmwork. Our project is currently seeking to enlist volunteers for our summer endeavors. If you think you may be interested there are some things which you should anticipate: the probable chal­lenge of interacting with a new culture-the majority of migrant farmworkers in Missouri are Hispanic or Mexican and speak only Spanish. It is an excellent opportunity to apply one's skills as a bilingual speaker. There is also a large population of African-Americans and a smaller population of Jamaicans and Haitians with whom we interact. 
As volunteers, we accept the challenges of living in a community with one another and with the local population of the small southern town located in the middle of America's Bible Belt. All of these various levels of community present unique challenges. 
The Migrant Farmworkers Project works in the local community helping to stimulate a response to the unique housing, health and educational needs of the migrant popula­tion. Another vital role of the Project stems from our rela­tionship with Legal Aid of Western Missouri-that of legal advocate and legal counsel. This function is especially important in response to the sundry immigration difficulties and questions which this population tends to present. 
The Project offers volunteers room and board and a small monthly stipend (approximately $400). Transportation to and from the site is not likely to be provided unless you live near Kansas City. There will be two project vehicles available for use in work-related travel. If you are interested please call Jon Davison at 816-753-2677 or write to me at 912 East 31st Street, Kansas City, MO, 64109. 
Jon M. Davison Class of 1990 March 21, 1991 
-

----------------~ 
Accent 
page 16 Wednesday April 3, 1991 
Standing up for her beliefs 
Bertice Berry, Ph.D., delivers punchlines with a purpose 
By MEREDITH Doctor of Comedy. Or both," everything I believe in, and if according to Steve Love of the other people believe in them,
MCCULLOUGH 

Becon Journal. She's "the defi­fine."
Accent Writer 

nition of Renaissance woman." Berry finds a link between comedy and teaching. Just asIf you've missed the barrage 
she used humor to keep her so­
of multi-colored signs scattered 

across the campus which claim 'Bertice Berry is ciology students interested and "They're Doing it Standing Up either the Bill Cosby to help them understand con­
cepts, she finds that comedy
(again)." then you must be 
of sociology or the 

helps to get her positive mes­
sleepwalking on your way to 

class. Doctor of Comedy. Or sages across to audiences. "Humor is as·much an in­
These explosive posters an­both.' 
strument of instruction as
nounce the Student Union 

textbooks," she said, but "you
Board's second comedy night of Berry started her career as a 
can reach a lot more people in
the year which will take place comedian about four years ago 
comedy clubs than in class­
this evening at 8 p.m. in when a friend talked her into rooms."
Theodore's. Forgoing the auditioning for amateur night at 
Unlike many comedians who
flashing lights and loud music, a local comedy club in Cuya­
stick to one-liners and quick
S.U.B. plans to transform Notre hoga Falls, Ohio. Since then she 
laughs, Berry fmds longer jokes 
Dame's prime dance spot into a has toured the United States 
more effective and more mean­
rip-roaring comedy lounge making her audience both 
ingful. "I do mostly stories and
(again). laugh and think. 
material on a level where ev­
This time, those attending Handling serious topics from 
eryone gets a message from it,"
should be ready for more than racism to sexism with a comic she said. 
just an ordinary stand-up co­touch, Berry makes an excellent median, for at the mike will be motivator. Bertice Berry: a Ph.D. graduate "All of the stuff is jammed 'I am a in sociology, a former university with positive messages about 
spokesperson for 

professor, a talented lecturer people--blacks, whites, males, with a serious message, and a females--coming together, liv­everything I believe very funny lady. ing together and really loving in, and if other people 
"Bertice Berry is either the each other," she said after one Bill Cosby of sociology or the show. "I am a spokesperson for 
believe in them, fine." 

Love refers to Berry as "an "World Report," Showtime's equal opportunity comedian." "Comedy Club Network", He describes part of her act as "Everyday With Joan Lunden," an attempt for Berry to give and on college campuses across whites all that blacks have by the country. teaching a predominantly white Joining her in Theodore's crowd the words to a Caucasian tonight will be Notre Dame Spiritual to the tune of "Swing students Will Clark, Dave Eck­Low Sweet Chariot": stein, and Mike Somerville. The 
"I looked over K-Mart and three students will open the what did I see? performance with some stand­"Coming for to carry me up of their own. home. "A blue light special on per­
'Berry breaks down 

cale sheets and Christmas 
aluminum trees, all stereotypes and "Coming for to carry me gives the audience a home." 
few hours of pure

With such an act, Berry breaks down all stereotypes and enjoyment.' gives the audience a few hours of pure enjoyment. "You had us laughing at ourselves," The event is sponsored by the 
.,.. commented a representative Campus Entertainment commit­



Bertice Berry will be a featured comedian tonight at Theodore's at 8 p.m. Also appearing will be Notre Dame from Belleville Area College in a tee of S.U.B. Tickets are $3 and 
letter to the comedian. are still available at the LaFor­
students Will Clark, Dave Eckstein, and Mike Somerville. 
Berry has been seen on CNN's tune Information Desk. 
-

By S1EVE TANKOVICH Accent Writer 

Looking for a unique evening of theater, along with catered food? Then be sure to look into what Irish Accent has to offer. The second annual Irish Accent Spring Theater/Dinner promises those and more. The gala event will be held on April 5, 6, 12, and 13. Each night will take place in the A room of North Dining Hall, and will consist of a meal and a show. 
Irish Accent, well-known as ND's comedy troupe, got its start three years ago. The group usually performs a com­edy in the fall along with this spring performance. 
This year's show is entitled "The Boys Next Door." The story, based on a script by Tom Griffin, involves four mentally disabled adults living in an apartment complex, and their supervisor. It deals with their interactions in a "humorous, yet very touching way," says Doug Heberle, spokesperson for the group. "It's looking really good and going to be a great show," Heberle states. The eleven cast members have been practicing since early February. 
'Usually you sit and watch, but [at the Dinner/Theater] you are on the stage.' 
At $10 per ticket, this event is cheaper than dinner and a movie. It's "a great dating opportunity," according to He­berle, especially since it's so different than other theaters. 
Heberle describes the atmosphere in a dramatic fashion. "Usually you sit and watch, but [at the Dinner!fheater] you are on the stage," he states. This refers to the fact that the show uses the whole room; the cast moves throughout the room during the performance. There is ample opportunity for cast/audience interaction. In fact, during the intermission, the cast members come out to serve dessert -in character. 
Everything is over by 9:30, so the Dinner/Theater can easily be a precursor to an SYR, Formal. or just a night of romance. 
The play shows a deep concern for the mentally disabled. In keeping with that theme, the proceeds from the event go to the Logan Center, a South Bend organization which helps the mentally disabled. 
'The play shows a deep concern for the mentally disabled.' 
A final important note: since this is not your normal University meal, the caterers must have numbers in advance. Tickets for the April 5 and 6 shows must be purchased by April 3; tickets for the April12 and 13 shows need to be bought by April 10. So don't dally, get your act together and let Irish Accent entertain you! 

Wednesday, April 3, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Lakers beat Spurs, keep pace with Trail Blazers J 
SAN ANTONIO (API -Magic .Johnson had 30 points, 12 re­bounds and 10 assists -his 13th triple-double of the season and third in four games -as the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the San Antonio Spurs 122-115 Tuesday night. 
Johnson's effort overshadowed David Robinson's 36 points and career-high 23 rebounds and ended the Spurs' five-game winning streak. It was also the Spurs' first loss in 11 home outings. 
San Antonio trailed by five be­fore Sean Elliott's 3-pointer capped a 9-4 spurt that made it 97-97 with 7:46 remaining. Neither team held more than a two-point edge until the final minute when the Lakers widened their lead from the free-throw line. 
Johnson's basket gave the Lakers the lead for good at 115­114 with 1:24 remaining. 
Trail Blazers 104, Tlmberwolves 93 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Jerome Kersey scored 25 points and joined with Terry Porter to key a third-quarter surge as Portland won its seventh straight game by defeating Minnesota. 
Kersey scored 13 points and Porter 10 in the third period as the Blazers broke away from a halftime tie by outscoring the Timberwolves 33-20 in the quarter. 
Kevin Duckworth scored 24 points, Clyde Drexler 22 and Porter 15 for Portland, 8-1 against the second-year Timberwolves, including 4-0 this season. 
Tony Campbell scored 22 points for Minnesota, which lost its fifth consecutive game. The Timberwolves have not won since tying their total number of victories for last season at 22 on March 22. 
Celtlcs 94, Nets 77 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Reggie Lewis scored 22 points and Boston limited New Jersey to 32 percent shooting from the field and its lowest point total of the season. 
The Nets made 28 of 87 shots against the NBA's top-rated de­fensive team in field goal per­centage, and that had them out of contention midway through the third quarter as the Celtics opened a 21-point lead. 

New Jersey's previous low was 79 points against Miami on Nov. 28 in an 18-point loss. 
Boston took control with a 16­2 spurt early in the second quarter and a 15-2 run bridging the end of the second quarter and the start of the third. 
Derrick Coleman scored 19 points for the Nets, who lost for the sixth time in seven games. 
Bucks 121, 76ers 104 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Fred Roberts scored a career-high 32 points as Milwaukee handed Philadelphia its worst home de­feat of the season. 
The 76ers played without Charles Barkley, who suffered a sprained ligament in his left knee Sunday. 
Roberts connected on 14 of 18 shots as the Bucks defeated Philadelphia at home for the first time since Dec. 13, 1988. The 76ers' worst previous loss at the Spectrum this season was 112-97 against New York on Jan. 19. 
Dan Schayes had 18 points for the Bucks, who outrebounded Philadelphia 52-39, led by Jack Sikma's 14. Jayson Williams had a season-high 17 points for Philadelphia, which trailed by at least 10 points from early in the second quarter. 
Milwaukee's biggest lead was 89-59. 
Pistons 83, Hornets 78 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP)-Joe Dumars had 24 points and Mark Aguirre scored 17 of his 23 in the second half as Detroit beat Charlotte for its fourth consecutive victory. 
The Pistons, 19-1 this season when holding the opposition under 90 points, improved their record to 18-14 since losing starting point guard Isiah Thomas to a wrist injury. 
Vinnie Johnson's 15-footer gave the Pistons their biggest lead at 71-59 with 9:30 to play. But the Hornets closed to 76-72 on Rex Chapman's alley-oop pass to Kendall Gill for a slam dunk with 2:38 remaining. 
With Detroit up 78-74, Dumars made a 20-footer and was fouled by Johnny Newman. 
Dumars then made his 59th straight free throw, extending his club record, to put the Pistons up 81-74. 
Chapman led the Hornets with 16 points. 
Bullets 101, Cavaliers 82 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) ­Washington held Cleveland without a basket for the first 
7:50 of the fourth quarter and got five points from A.J. English in a 14-0 run. 
Ledell Eackles scored 21 points for the Bullets, who blew a 15-point lead in the third quarter, but rallied to break a three-game losing streak by forcing Cleveland to miss its first 15 field-goal attempts of the final period. 
During that time, the Bullets turned a 72-72 tie into an 86-72 lead. English started the pivotal run with a layup and capped it with a free throw before Henry James' layup broke the Cavaliers' drought with 4:10 left. 
James finished with 19 points for the Cavaliers, who made only three of 22 shots in the fi­nal period. 

The Observer accepts classifieds avery business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame ottica, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3p.m. All classitiads must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cants per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spacas. 
NOTICES 

SEEKING SUMMER SCHOOL HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. Want to avoid the endless computer TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS. SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND STUDENT FOR BABYSITIING-15 3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, 
lines at finals? UNIVERSITY TEACHING PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOURS PER WEEK-5 MIN. FROM Reasonable Rates. then buy my practically new, EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST HOUSING/ROOMMATETYPING AVAILABLE 
N.D. 234-7407. Call at 232-1776. professional WP system. Easy-to­BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" 287-4082 
use, fantastic results, and no IN ECON & MATH COURSES. HELPIIINEED A ROOMATE FOR An attractive studio in lovely old waiting! $300 or b.o 272-3153. ARE YOU A BOOKWORM? FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM 
CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL mansion near N.D. $300 now Matt x2004 The Accent department of The $1000 in just one week. Earn up to DOUG X2051 renting for summer &fall 91 call Observer is looking for an 
$1 000 for your campus 2879624 TICKETS undergraduate or graduate student organization. Plus a chance at 
KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS Happy 21st Birthday Dan Haarlll with strong writing skills to serve as $5000 morel This program works! NEEDED. $35. 00 and up per hour. Roomate needed for summer a regular literary critic. Call John 
No Investment needed. Call 1-800-2 A-trip tix. anywhere for $250 a
Tax Free. Both skilled and session. Call Tim M-F at Sorry we couldn't take you out O'Brien at 239-5303 for more 932-0528 Ext. 50 piece.
· unskilled. For info. Call 233-8461. tonight. informationCall2649 or 3149
615-779-5505 Ext. K-541 Just wait until tomorrow! $$$for books 10-4:30 M·Sat.reg. 
Condo for summer rental ARE YOU A MOVIE GOER? 
hours 10-5:30 everyday I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL 
Ride to/fro Columbus 4/5-4/7-2 bdrm 1 mi. from ND 272-5708 The Guys The Accent department of The Pandora's Books 233-2342 JOHN X2325. 
please help & call 4800 Observer Is looking for an avid corner of ND Ave. & Howard 
2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. movie goer with strong writing skills 
SENIORS Ill 

Do you have 2 Paul Simon tickets?? $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. Attention: to serve as a regular movie critic. 
I need 1 Grad. Ticket 

Ramada Inn of Elkhart. Award Call Amy 1289 Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School all you pre-meds Call John O'Brien at 239-5303 for Winning Hotel, has rooms tor Call Martha x4271 
yr. Call Michelle at X4970. wish Dan Haar a happy 21st more information. Graduation weekend. Located at 
American Au Pair nanny specialists. birthday! Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles PERSONAL
Carefully screened families. Full TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES HEY EVERYONE II from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 benefits, airfare, good wages, 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE Farley has extra spots on nights with $110 deposit per room. Nanny support system, no tees. 
IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER ADOPTION: Loving, professional LES MISERABLES TRIP Send letter w1th deposit to 3011 Local interview-call Joan 616-684-3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE couple will give your newborn the cookies and cream milk shakes are Thurs. (tomorrow!)Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514. 
1451. NORTH OF ND 2773097 best things in life. Let us help you too a dessert! $40 •> bus to Chicago + show through this difficult time. Medical Leave lib. circle @5:30 TYPING SERVICE: Resumes, Term EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK Hawaii beachfront CONDO, steeps expenses paid. Legal/confidential. KOONTZ HOUSE BED & Call Martha x4271 Papers, Cover Letters. 232-3325. 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 4.11/28-12/5/91,$500, mins. from BREAKFAST WEEKEND 
Call Barbara and Joe any1ime. 
1-615-473-7440 EXT. B Hula Bowl & Honolula. Call 234-(BOO) 253-8086. GETAWAY. Looking for a female roommate off­Word Processing 
5041/233-4408. 23 miles south of campus on Koontz campus for next year? So am II Quick service. color printing BE ON T.V. many needed tor 
Resumes .... Professional quality Lake. 586-7090. Call3566 available. Call Betty at 7458 or commercials. Now hiring all ages. Female roomates wanted tor 272-5667. (Tom Williams) leave message (289·1321) For casting info. Call Summer School to share Marc-SAM'S WHOLESALE CLUB (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-695. 
Oak Hill condo-call Amy@ IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. 1want your big banana I 
RESUMESfTERM Special Service for NEW 
284-4445 ·Scott
Cash paid tor all makes of 
PAPERSfTHESES Guaranteed BUSINESS MEMBER sign ups. No
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Computers and Software. Computer 
Lowest Rates. 256-6657. need to stand in long line.Just call 
OPPORTUNITY software for IBM and IBM 24-hour recorded message-277­
Firm desires undergrads or grad FOR SALE compatible, Commodore or Apple, "It's great to be with MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 6877.
students for pool construction. Will 
$2 each. train and provide position for several 
WESTERN ELECTRONICS BILLY O'ROURKE. Last day for loans is Thurs. Summers. Steady employment and 1530 WESTERN AVE. 
PREGNANT?

Apr. 411 (May '91 Grads not pay increases available. Write 1919 IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME I I say it's great to be with 
287-7550 

Whoopslis "Our Baby" growing ineligible) So. Michigan St., South Bend, IN 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY your tummy by accident? Loving 46613 or call Joe at 287-9283. OWNER. FIREPLACE, C/A, FMRM NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and BILLY O'ROURKE! I"
doctor and his stay-at-home wife W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN trade, gold. silver, diamonds, would like to discuss Baby's future 
LOST/FOUND USA TODAY · Needs early AM WALK FROM ND. APPT ONLY. jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, Happy 21st BILLY 011
with you. Please call collect delivery person for campus dorms, 234-8116, EVE. 

camcorders, cameras, air any1ime. (219) 462-5250 Michael & Mon.-Fri. Delivery takes approx. one conditioners, microwaves, tools, 
LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, Debra.
hour. Phone Bob Powell at 287-IS IT TRUE ... JEEPS FOR $44 Valentines
Nintendo's, computers. 

with "Mountainside Community Pool 8531. THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T? 
OZARK TRADING POST Staff" on it between LaFortune & CALL FOR FACTS! 
1530 WESTERN AVE. """BEDSPINS".. hiFisher on Mon 3/25. Be real cool 504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840
FOR RENT 287-7550 friday nile and return it to Jeff x1873. 
at McCormicksl SWEET FAIR JENNIFER MARIE, sofa, luv seat, carpet 
noble.
LOST: GRAD. WEEKEND window seats (Fl. & Gr.) 

PLEASE get your paper done so weI left a Limited bag In the Main ­

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY X1583 outrageous. To all ENGL 491 A warriors: "All wars can go see our favorite head­Circle late on Monday night. If you 219-291-7153. are boyish and are fought by boys.· bangers this weekend. 
found It, please call me at: 284­
Bar, Five Stools, Misc. glasses. WATERFRONT PROPERTY! words to live (and die) by ..... 4112. 
3 Bedroom House 289-5345. 
REWARD I Close to Campus ADOPTION: Happily married loving FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 

$555 Month + Deposit CABER COMP SL Ski bt, sz7.5, 
couple wish to adopt. We promise a CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
HELPIHELPIHELPIHELPIHELPI Ten Month lease $200. x1400 
fine education, financial security, 232-3616 and the best of all our hearts. Ill PROFESSORS ... IllI lost my cross in Gym 1 of the ACC 
86 VW GOLF. Excellent cond., 
Expenses paid. Legal/confidential.
on Wednesday March 27. I left it TIME IS RUNNING OUT · AIC,sunroof,pull-out hi-fi.New 
Call Tom and Debbie collect 212-ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD there alter 5 p.m. It's a silver cross 
Call before the BEST houses are Michelins,exhaust,brakes,belts,hose 866-8315. ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU on a black rope band. It has GREAT 
gone 233-9947. s.Orig owner must GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU SENTIMENTAL VALUE. A 
sell.$3690.232-9952. 

Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS? JUST GOING AWAY THIS REWARD IS OFFERED. If found EASY LIVING '91-'92 yr. 
'ioo much stuff to bring home for the SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE please call Mike at 1788. Thanks. 
3 great student houses. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
summer? Help me fill my truck. HOUSE? 234-3831 or 288-5653 Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Contact Joe-X1433 RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. 
WANTED 
LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF Available. 2 Student Rental Homes Office near campus. A HAPPY HOME FOR YOUR YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING for 1991-1992 school year. Call ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE
BABY. A Southern California SUMMER JOBS 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to 87 Pontiac FIERO GT, mint 
teacher and film/businessman seek SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). loaded,low mi.,must sell 
to fulfill dreams through adoption. TO WORRY THIS SUMMER! CALL PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS $7000/b.o. 273-9349 We offer financial security, ANYTIME. ..283-3470...PLEASE ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Grad student needs housemate 
education, opportunities, and LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE I LAKE PLACID. CALL next school year. Nice place, FOR SALE: One Way Ticket to l.l. CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" 
extended family. Please call collect 1-800-343-8373. furnished, inexpensive. 288-5859. Islip Sat. 5/11 $125 Erin x4492 
Maria and Peter (818) 893-2795. REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. 
To our favorite CIVIL ENGINEER/SUNSHINE you are a really good sport. 
Now '-*'!I 
FAYETTE SQUARE 

-
TOWN-tOMES 
4 &I KDROOII UNITS 
AYAIL..ULR 
A!Danldoslodudf· -WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APAiffi.ENTS LEFTI FOR MORE INFO t«:YN. 232-82111 

---~--~--~---­
Wednesday, April 3, 1991

Scoreboard
page 18 
NFL DRAFT ORDER 

NCAA ALL·TOURNAMENT TEAMS NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

The NCAA Final Four All-Tournament The order of selection tor the the first round of the 1972 Atanllc Divlelon
Teams (the first player listed each year was the Final Four most oUlstandlng player; x­

1991 NFL draft to be held on April 21-22 In New Bill Walton, UCLA; Keith Wilkes, UCLA; w L Ptt CB L10 Slr•k Home A-y Conf York: Bob McAdoo, North Carolina; Jim Price, y-Boston 53 20 .726 6-4 Won 3 32-5 21-15 32-14
player records vacated by action ot NCAA 

1, New England Louisville; Ron King, Florida State. x-Phlladelphia 40 33 .548 13 5-5 lost 1 27-10 13-23 28-18
subsequent to the tournament): 

2, Cleveland 1971 New York 35 37 .486 17 1/2 5-5 Won 1 17-19 18-18 24-20
1991

3, Atlanta x-Howard Porter, Villanova; x-Hank Washington 27 45 .375 25 1/2 4-6 Won 1 19-17 8-28 19-28
Christian Laettner, Duke; Bobby Hurley,

4, Denver Siemlontkowskl, Villanova; x-Jim New Jersey 23 50 .315 30 3-7 lost 3 18-20 5-30 15-32
Duke; Mark Randall, Kansas; Anderson

5, Los Angeles Rams McDaniels, Western Kentucky; Stave Miami 22 50 .306 30 1/2 2-8 Lost 1 16-22 6-28 13-34
Hunt, UNLV; Bill McCaffrey, Duke. 

6, Phoenix Patterson, UCLA; Sidney Wicks, UCLA. Central Divlelon 
1990

7, Tarll)a Bay 1970 x-Chlcago 54 18 .750 7-3 Won 1 32-4 22-14 35-10
Anderson Hunt, UNLV; Phil Henderson,

8, x-New York Jets Sidney Wicks, UCLA; Jimmy Collins, New x-Detrott 46 27 .630 8 112 7-3 Won 4 29-8 17-19 30-16
Duke; Dennis Scott, Georgia Tech; Stacey

9, Green Bay Mexico State; John Vallely, UCLA; Artis x-MIIwaukee 44 29 .587 10 112 6-4 Won 2 29-7 15-22 29-18
Augmon, UNLV; Larry Johnson, UNLV. 

10, San Diego Gilmore, Jacksonville; Curtis Rowe, UCLA. x-AIIanta 38 34 .528 16 3-7 Lost 3 26-10 12-24 21-25
1989

11, Detroit· 1969 Indiana 36 36 .500 18 7-3 Won 1 26-10 10-26 22-22
Glen Alee, Michigan; Rumeal Robinson,

12, Dallas tram Minnesota Lew Alclndor, UCLA; Rid! Mount, Purdue; Cleveland 25 47 .347 29 3-7 lost 3 17-17 8-30 16-29
Michigan; Gerald Greene, Seton Hall; John 

13, Dallas Charlie Scott, North Carolina; Willie Charlotte 22 51 .301 32 1/2 4-6 lost 1 14-21 8-30 14-32
Morton, Seton Hall; Danny Ferry, Duke. 

14, Atlanta tram Indianapolis McCarter, Drake; John Vallely, UCLA. WESTERN CONFERENCE 
1988 

15, Dallas tram New Orleans 1968 t.tdwest Divielon
Danny Manning, Kansas; Mitt Newton,

16, Pittsburgh Lew Alclndor, UCLA; Lynn Shackleford, w L Ptt CB L10 Streak Home A-y Coni
Kansas; Stacey King, Oklahoma; Dave 

17, Seattle UCLA; Mike Warren, UCLA; Lucius Allen, x-San Antonio 47 24 .662 6-4 lost 1 30-7 17-17 30-17
Sieger, Oklahoma; Sean Elliott, Arizona 

18, Houston UCLA; Larry Millar, North Carolina x-Houston 46 25 .648 1 9-1 Won 1 28-8 18-17 27-18
1987 

19, Cincinnati 1967 x-Utah 46 25 .648 1 6-4 Lost 3 29-5 17-20 30-15
Keith Smart, Indiana; Steve Alford,

20, Phlladephla Lew Alcindor, UCLA; Don May, Dayton; Dallas 26 45 .366 21 3-7 Won 1 18-19 8-26 15-30
Indiana; Derrick Coleman, Syracuse;

21, Washington Mike Warren, UCLA; Elvin Hayes, Houston; Orlando 26 45 .366 21 5-5 lost 1 20-16 6-29 22-28
Sherman Douglas, Syracuse, Armon 

22, Kansas City Lucius Allen, UCLA. Minnesota 22 49 .310 25 3-7 Lost 5 16-19 6-30 15-37
Gilliam, UNLV.

23, Chicago 1966 Denver 19 53 .264 28 112 1-9 Lost 2 16-21 3-34 11-36
1986

24, Miami Jerry Chambers, Utah; Pat Alley, Pacllc Divlelon
Parvis Ellison, Louisville; Johnny

25, Los Angeles Raiders Kantudly; Jack Mann, Duke; Louie Dampier, x-Portland 54 18 .750 8-2 Won 7 32-5 22-13 34-13
Dawkins, Duke; Mark Alarie, Duke; Tommy 

26, San Francisco Kentucky; Bobby Joe Hill, Texas Western. x-LA Lakars 52 21 .712 2 112 7-3 Won 2 28-8 24-13 35-13
Amaker, Duke; Billy Thompson, Louisville. 

27, Buffalo 1965 x-Phoenlx 50 22 .694 4 7-3 Won 3 28-7 22-15 30-16
1985 

28, New York Giants Bill Bradley, Princeton; Gail Goodrich, Golden State 37 35 .514 17 4-6 lost 2 24-11 13-24 22-25
Ed Pinckney, Villanova; Dwayne McClain, UCLA; Cazzle Russell, Michigan; Edgar Seattle 34 37 .479 19 1/2 4-6 Won 2 22-12 12-25 20-25VIllanova; Harold Jensen, VIllanova; Gary 

x-Used selection In the 1990 supplemental draft Lacey, UCLA; Kenny Washington, UCLA. LA Clippers 28 44 .389 26 7-3 Won 5 20-16 8-28 23-23
Mclain, Villanova; Patrick Ewing, 1964 Sacramento 19 51 .271 34 2-8 Lost 2 18-16 1-35 13-31Georgetown. 

Walt Hazzard, UCLA; Jell Mullins, Duke: x-cllnched playoff berth 1984 Bill Buntin, Michigan; WHile Murrell, Kansas y-cllnched division tttle
TRANSACTIONS 
Patrick Ewing, Georgetown; Michael 
State; Gall Goodrich, UCLA. 
Graham, Georgetown; Akeam Olajuwon, Houston; Michael Young, Houston; Alvin 

1963 Tuesday's Games Wec!Meday's Games Art Hayman, Duke; Tom Thacker, Late Game Not Included New York at Cleveland, 7:30p.m.
Franklin, Houston. 

Cincinnati; Las Hunter, Loyola, Ill.; George Datrott 83, Charlotte 78 Philadelphia at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. 
1983
BASEBALL 

Wilson, Cinclnnall; Ron Bonham, Cincinnati. Boston 94, New Jersey n Dallas at Houston, 8:30p.m.
Akeem Olajuwon, Houston; Thurl Bailey,American Laague 1962 Milwaukee 121, Phlladephia 104 LA CIW9rs at Utah, 9:30p.m.

North Carolina State; Sidney Lowe, NorthAL-Upheld the live-game suspension and Paul Hogue, Cincinnati; Jerry Lucas, Ohio Washington 1 01, Cleveland 82

Carolina State; Mitt Wagner, Louisville; Sacramento at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
$10,000 tine of Roger Clemens, Boston Red Sox 

State; Tom Thacker, Cincinnati; John Portland 104, Mlnn880ta 93 Miami at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. p~cher, tor his acllons In last year's playoffs. 
Dareck Whittenburg, North Carolina State. 

Havlicek, Ohio State; Len Chappell, Wake LA Lakars 122, San Antonio 1 15 1982BALTIMORE ORIOLES--Placed Kevin Hickey Forest. Chicago 1 06, Orlando 102James Worthy, North Carolina; Patrickand John Mitchell, pitchers, on waivers tor the 1961 Dallas 133, Denver 126
Ewing, Georgetown; Eric Floyd,
purpose ot giving them their releases. Agreed to Jerry Lucas, Ohio State; Bob Phoenix 131, Utah 117Georgetown; Michael Jordan, Northterms wtth Mke Flanagan, pttcher, on a one-year Wlasanhahn, Cincinnati; Larry Siegfried, Miami at Sacramento, (n)Carolina; Sam Perkins, North Carolina

cootract. 

Ohio State; Carl Bouldin, Cincinnati; x-John 
1981CLEVELAND INDIANS--Re-assigned Wayne 

lsiah Thomas, Jett Egan, St. Joseph's. HL STANDINGS
Indiana; Lamp,Kirby, outfielder, to their minor-league complex. 

1960Virginia; Jim Thomas, Indiana; LandonDETROIT TIGERS-Optioned Scott Aldred, Jerry Lucas, Ohio State; Oscar Robertson, Eaat DivialonTurner, Indiana; AI Wood, North Carolina. 
Kevin Ritz and Rusty Meacham, pitchers, to Toledo Cincinnati; Mal Nowell, Ohio State; Darrall w L OTL Pta GF GA1980ot the International League. 

Imhoff, California; Tom Sanders, New York x-Kalamazoo 50 27 1 101 332 286Darrell Gritflth, Louisville; Joe BarryKANSAS CITY ROYALS--Optioned Jeff Conine, 
Unlverstty. x-lndianapolls 45 28 5 95 316 242first baseman, and Tim Spehr, catcher, to Omaha 
Carroll, Purdue; Rodney McCray, Louisville; 

1959 x-Fort Wayne 41 33 5 87 354 320ot the American Association. Sent Andy x-Kikl Vandewegha, UCLA; x-Rod Foster, West Virginia; 37 5 295
Jerry Wast, Oscar x-Muskegon 37 79 330UCLA.
McGattlgan, pitcher, and Paul Zuvella, Infielder, to Robertson, Cincinnati; Darrall lmhott, y-Aibany 22 30 3 47 191 232Omaha 1979 California; Don Goldstein, Louisville; Danny Weal Dlvlalon

Earvln Johnson, Michigan State; LarryMILWAUKEE BREWERS--Placed Edgar Diaz, Fitzpatrick, California. x-Peoria 55 18 5 115 389 252Bird, Indiana State; Greg Kaiser, Michiganinfielder, and Mike Felder, outfielder, on waivers tor 

x-Satt Lake Ctty 5the purpose at giving them their releases. Agreed 
1958 47 28 99 336 285State; Mark Aguirre, DePaul; Gary Garland, Elgin Baylor, Seattle; John Cox, Kentucky; x-Phoenlx 36 35 8 80 305 323DePaul.
to terms with Candy Maldonado, outfielder; Rick 1978 Guy Rodgers, Temple; Charley Brown, Milwaukee 33 42 3 69 259 310Dempsey, catcher; and Willie Randolph, second Seattle; Vern Hatton, Kentucky. San Diego 30 41 8 68 259 338Jack Givens, Kentucky; Ron Brewer,baseman, on one-year contracls. 

1957 Kansas City 25 50 4 54 249 387MINNESOTA TWINS--Placed Nelson Llrlano, 
Arkansas; Mila Gmlnskl, Duke; Rick Robey, 
Wilt Chamberlain, Kansas; Len

lntlelder, on waivers lor the purpose of giving him Kentudly; Jim Spanarl<el, Duke. 
Rosenbluth, North Carolina; John Green, x-clinched playoff berth; y-Ielded Feb. 14.
19n
hla release. 

Michigan State; Gene Brown, San NOTE: Two points are awarded for a victory and one tor an overtime or shootou!loss
NEW YORK YANKEES-Placed Rich Butch Lee, Marquette; Mike O'Koren, Francisco; Pate Brennan, North Carolina. Tuesday's Game · Monteleone, pitcher, on special waivers. North Carolina; Cedric Maxwell, N.C. 
Kansas Ctty 5, Satt Lake C~ 2

1956
TEXAS RANGERS-Placed Jose Guzman, Charlotte; Bo Ellis, Marquette; Wattar Davis, Hal Lear, Temple; Witt Chamberlain, Wedneaday's Games pttcher, on waivers tor the purpose ot giving him North Carolina; Jerome Whitehead, San Diego at Phoenix
Kansas; Carl Cain, Iowa; Hal Perry, San
his release. Marquette. 
Peoria at Milwaukee

Francisco; Bill Logan, Iowa
National League 1976 Muskegon at Kalamazoo1955ATLANTA BRAVES--Placed Mark Grant, pitcher, Kent Benson, Indiana; Scott May, Indiana; Bill Russell, San Francisco; Tom Gola, La Fort Wayne at Indianapolis on the 1 5-day disabled list retroactive to March 28. Rickey Green, Michigan; Marques Johnson, 
Salle; K.C. Jones, San Francisco; Jim
CHICAGO CUBS--Placed Rick Sutcliffe, pttcher. UCLA; Tom Abernethy, Indiana 
Ranglos, Colorado; Carl Cain, Iowa. 
on the 1 5-day disabled list. Optioned Steve Carter, 1975 NCAA BASKETBALL FINAL 
1954outfielder, to Iowa ot the American Association. Richard Washington, UCLA; Kevin 
Tom Gala, La Salle; Chuck Singley, La
HOUSTON ASTROS-Optioned Mike Simms, Gravay, Kentucky; Dave Myers, UCLA; Allen KANSAS (65)
Salle; Jesse Arnalla, Penn State; Roy Irvin,
first baseman, to Tucson at the Pacific Coast Murphy, Louisville; Jim Lee, Syracuse. 
Jamison 1-10 0-0 2, Maddox 2-4 0-0 4, Randa117-9 3-6 18, Brown 6-15 0-0 16, Jordan 4-6 1-2 11
Southern CaiWornla; Bob Carney, Bradley. 
League. Sent Terry McGrltt, catcher, outright to 1974 
Woodberry 1-4 0-0 2, Scott 3-9 0-0 6, Tunstall 1-5 0-0 2, Wagner 1-1 0-0 2 Johanning 1-1 0-0 2 ' Tucson. Sent Jim Corsi and Dean Wilkens, David Thompson, North Carolina State; 1953 Richey 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 27-65 4-8 65. ' ' 
B.H. Born, Kansas; Bob Houbrags,
pitchers, to their minor-league camp tor Bill Watton, UCLA; Tom Burleson, North DUKE (72)
Washington; Bob Leonard, Indiana; Dean
reassignment. Placed Don Carman, pitcher, on Carolina State; Monte Towe, North Carolina 
Koubek 2-4 0-0 5, G.H\114-8 2-8 10, Laettner 3-8 12-12 18, Hurley 3-5 4-4 12, T.HIII 1-5 0-0 3, Davis waivers tor the purpose of giving him his release. State; Maurice Lucas, Marquette. 
Kallay, Kansas; Don Schlundt, Indiana 
4-5 0-2 8, Palmer 0-0 0-0 0, Lang 0-0 0-0 0, McCaffrey 6-8 2-2 16. Totals 23-41 20-28 72. Released Mark Thurmond, pitcher. 1973 1952 
Clyde Lovellette, Kansas; Bob Zawoluk,
NEW YORK METS--Traded Darren Reed and Bill Walton, UCLA; Steve Downing, Halttlm&-Duke 42, Kansas 34. 3-polnt goals-Kansas 7-18 (Brown 4-11 Jordan 2-2 Randall 1-1
St. John's; John Kerr, Illinois; Ron
Alex Dlaz, oUlflelders, to the Montreal Expos tor Indiana; Ernie DiGregorio, Providence; Larry Richey 0-1, Tunstall 0-1, Jamison 0-2), Duke 6-10 (McCaffrey 2-3, Hurley 2-4, T.Hill 1-'1. Koubek 1-2).
MacGIIvray, St. John's; Dean Kallay,
Terrel Hansen, outfielder, and David Sommer, Finch, Memphis State; Larry Kanan, Fouled out-Nona. Rebounds-Kansas 32 (Randall 10), Duke 31 (Laettner 10). Assists-Kansas 16Kansas.
pitcher. Memphis State. 
(JamiSon 5), Duke 14 (Hurley 9). Total fouls-Kansas 21, Duke 14. A-47,100. PITTSBURGH PIRATES--Optioned Mke York, pncher, to Buttalo of the American Association. South Atlantic League SPARTANBURG PHILLIES-Named Ken McMillan assistant general manager. 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaoclation HOUSTON ROCKETS--Placed Dave Feiti, center, on the Injured list. 
MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Placed Dale Ellis, guard, on the Injured list. Signed Adrian Danlley, forward, to a contract for the remainder of the season. 
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Activated Tony Massenburg, forward, from the Injured list. Placed Dwayne Schlntzlus, center. on the injured list. 
FOOTBALL National Football League CELVELAND BROWNS-Waived Mike Lansford, kicker. GREEN BAY PACKERS--Signed Scott Jonas, defensive lineman. MIAMI DOLPHINS--Signed Don Smith, running 
back. 
NEW YORK GIANTS--Signed James Milling, wide receiver. 

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed James ··..·.·.·.·.··.··....·.··.·.·.· .. ·....·.·.·· ·..··.· ..·.·.-: · ... ·... ·.··>.· ·>·.···' .-:.:.:-· .· ·.··,·· >.·: .. · ·. · .. Booty, safety. Released AI Harris, linebacker. Canadian Football Laague 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Jake Vaughan, safety, and Darren Joseph, running 
back. 

-
... /NOTRE DAME<GO..l..FSHOP 
HOCKEY National Hockey Laague 

NEW YORK RANGERS--Signed Tony Amante, . < ><.. QPI:N SEVE.N DAYS AWEEK 
rlaht wfna, and Doua Welaht. center. WASHINGTON CAPITALS--Called up Kent Paynter, defenseman, from Baltimore ot the 

><> <i ->6<:30A.IVIE4:0ofif.A ... > < .. •>·> >< . • 
American Hockey League. 

"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
COLLEGE 

··.. · ··.·.·.·.>: .· ·.. . .. . .. : .. ·.· ··.·... · . ·. ::-·.:.··· .:·.: .·.·· ... NEW YORK TECH-Named Joe Hannie women's ballkelball coach. NORTH FLORIDA-Named Marilyn McReavy­Nolan women's volleyball and sottball coach. 


&\American Heart 
~Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 
This space provided as a public service. 


~Af.-,J t~q1] 

VOLUME LXIX APRIL FOOL'S DAY 
COVERING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S LIKE A RASH 

Holtz ousted! 
Team attacks coach with waterguns, locks him in office 
By STEVE HUFFMAN 
Sports Whiner 
In a coup that rivals that of the women's volleyball team, the Notre Dame football team rallied and overthrew head coach Lou Holtz Friday. 
"We were tired of listening to a short hick dude with a lisp," remarked several players who wanted to remain anonymous but were by no means short and spoke quite clearly. 
According to the three players who spearheaded the overthrow, the idea first came during the 1988 when, during the Miami pep rally, Holtz made the comment about "kicking the living dog" out of Miami. Apparently a few of the players took offense at this. 
"Why the living dog? Why not the living cat? I have several dogs at home and I did not appreciate it," commented one. "I think it was inappropriate to refer to abusing a living crea­ture," said another. "He could have said something like 'kick the living bananas out of Miami.' I will not put up with 
it. .. "Most ridiculous comment I ever heard," was all the third would offer. The '88 championship quieted rumblings for that year, but the loss to Miami in '89 and the Orange Bowl loss this year caused tensions to run high and tempers to flare. At a team 
meeting on 3 p.m. Friday Holtz claimed, as usual, that he was not optimistiC about next year 
and that his team was not all that good. It was the straw that broke the camel's back. 

Lou Holtz 

According to those who were there, three players who had been sitting in the back and had managed to sneak out into the hall came running in with black hoods over their faces and armed with water guns. After thoroughly soaking Holtz they turned to the rest of the team and shouted "Now is our only chance!" 
As if suddenly possessed, the team rose en masse, grabbed Holtz by the arms and legs, and carried him to his office and locked him in. The office had been cleared of everything but a television set that carried only Notre Dame basketball games. 
As of the last time someone checked on him, he was sitting in the middle of the floor with his hands over his eyes chanting, "I'm not watching, I'm not watching, but Digger's still playing!" 
Meanwhile, University President Ken Durgans has taken over the head coaching position by a unanimous team vote. "It was bound to happen eventually. He never was that good of a coach. It's all luck 
anyway," stated Durgans, who 
promised never to make 
references to animals. He has 
some ideas for changes in next 
year's season that include 
renaming the ACC as the Joyce · Multisports Center. 
Other University 
administrators came to the aid 
of the players after allegations 
that Holtz was running a dirty 
program. 
According to former floltz 
assistant Pete Cordelli. Holtz 
allegedly violated several NCAA 
rules during a recruiting trip by 
Raghib Ismail in 1987. 
According to Cordell!, Ismail 
came to Holtz after allegedly 
losing his wallet and his bus 
pass while dancing in 
Theodore's. 
Cordelli said that Holtz gave 
Ismail $4,000 cash, a Visa and a · 
new Ford Bronco. "I couldn't 
believe what I saw," Cordell! 
said. 
Holtz vehemently denied any 
wrongdoing during a speaking 
engagement on Thursday. 
"The poor kid was broke and 
stranded, I guess I shouldn't 
have given him the truck-a 
Pinto would have sufficed," he 
lisped. 
Missy Conboy, assistant 
athletic: director, announeed 
that the University was opening 
its own investigation. 
"You can bet your life that if 
he even thought about doing 
something wrong, I'll have his 
butt in a sling," she said. 
Holtz, replying from his cell in 
the ACC, said, "That Missy, she's 
really really a pain in my butt. 
Then again, she is pretty hot 
when she's angry." 

By U.R. AFOOL 
Sports Writer 
Look out Andre Waters and Bubba Paris. The new bad boy of the NFL has arrived. 
Yesterday afternoon in a press conference Raghib "Hocket" Ismail and his image consultants announced their plans for marketing the NFL's newest superstar. The plans that were unveiled indude an upcoming Playgirl centerfold. a personalized line of "Hocket" condoms, and a multi-million dollar endorsement contract for Big Boy edible briefs. 
''I'm tired of maintaining the "good boy" image. It's time for me to show the world the real me. I'm wild, wily, and ready for action," said Ismail. ''I've torn the tickets off of pillows before and turned right on a no-turn red light." 
"We felt that the Rocket's image needed to be more in touch with his true self," said Don King. "All of this goody­two-shoes stuff was just the Notre Dame administration trying to make the university look good. Don't believe a word of it." 
King beeame Ismail's managr.r and personal image eonsultant after there was a fallout between the superstar and his previous manager Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy. 
The Playgirl centerfold is scheduled is eome out next Fall. just as football season bngins to heat up. "I wanted the public to see the other side of Haghih Ismail, the one that they don't see on the field," said Ismail. 
''I'm vnry excited to work with the photographer on differnnt positions for the spread. It should be great." 
I.M. Slick, the editor of Playgirl, commented, ''I'm very excited to able to finally work closely with the Rocket. I'm sure we can help his image blast off in new and exciting directions." 
Ismail's new personal line of condoms will be marketed nation-wide next fall. The condoms, offically called "Rocht Rubbers," will be available in the team eolors of the NFL franchaise who selects him and will have his autograph. A special limited­edition, promotional model will also have the superstar's picture on the end. 
"I wanted to change the way my devoted fans were having sex, but at the same time I wanted to encourage safe sex. "Hocket Rubbers" allowed me to do both," stated Ismail. 
The big surprise of the press conference came when the endorsmement contract for Big Boy Edible Briefs was announeed. 
Ismail maintained that this new endorsement contract was not the work of his image consultants and that it was something in which he was genuinely interested. "I have been wearing Big Boys since I was just a little tyke. I feel that they are definitely the most superior brand of underwear on the market today. If you have a pair that is wearing out, just feed it to your dog. Nothing could be easier, no mending or stuff like that." 
With all of these changes in image, Ismail is now in the running for the title of the "Baddest Boy in the NFL." Look out world, he's ready to blast off. 
Phelps to assume new positions 
By JOHN HOLMES 
Head Sports Writer 
Roger Valdiserri, associate athletic director at Notre Dame announced in a press conference today that Richard "Digger" Phelps has stepped down from his position as head coach of the men's basketball team in order to assume other University positions. 
Phelps will be promoted to Director of University Cemeteries and Honorary Bookstore Basketball Tournament Chairman, Valdiserri said. He-will assume the position immediately. 
No replacement has been found as of yet, but a source in the athletic department suggested that the top eontenders for the job are former Notre Dame football player Steve Huffman and University President Kenneth Durgans. 
Phelps sat quietly as Valdiserri read from a prepared statement, and on several occasions adjusted his crotch. 
"We are pleased to have Digger as Director of Cemeteries," Valdiserri read. "We figured he was pretty experienced working with deadbeats, and besides, he has the nickname." 
Valdiserri was referring to the moniker Phelps earned while working for his father in the family's funeral business. However, Phelps later said that he wants to ehange his nickname. 
"I thought 'Digger' was kind of morbid, especially in my new position," he said. "From now on, I want to be called 'Big Dick,' and I've even thought up a new slogan: 'It's bigger than Digger," he said. 
"W£: also feel Coach Phelps' abilities to lead a team make him perfectly suited to head up the Bookstore tournament," Valdiserri continued. 
"I'm hoping maybe to give Adworks All-Stars a little help," joked Phelps. 
Adworks captain Derrick Johnson issued a two­word statement to the media after the conference. It read, "No thanks." 
Valdiserri denied that Phelps was promoted and not fired because of his wife, Terry Phelps, a widely-respected professor in Notre Dame's Law School. 
"The fact that Digger was promoted and not fired has absolutely no relation to the fact that Theresa is the numero-uno-bestest-please-don't­leave-oh-please-oh-please,'' Valdiserri said as he polished Mrs. Phelps' shiny new shoes. 
As for a replacement for Phelps, Valdiserri had little to say. 
"We don't have anyone in mind right now, but we'll be sure to check our selection with the members of SUFR before we announce anything," he said. 
Also sporting a new nickname, Father E. William "Billy the Kid" Beauchamp, exeeutive vice-president of the University, said that Phelps' promotion was the first step in getting Notre Dame a winning basketball team at all costs. 
"Screw that Knight Commission bunk," he said, "I want to see some wicked JAMS!" 

Accent 
April Fool's Day 
page 2 

SMC president Hickey proclaims: 'I am woman' 
YEAR OF WOMEN SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Activities planned for April 2, 1991: 
12 p.m. Lecture: "How to watch a football game and not look stupid," Mrs. Lou Holtz, Joyce ACC. 2 p.m. Seminar: "Can women drink beer too: Wine coolers versus Meister Brau," Patty O'Hara, vice president tor Student Affairs, South Dining Hall. 4 p.m. Lecture: "What's the future of this relationship-When will he pop the question?" Sr. Jean Lenz, Farley Hall. 5 p.m. "An evening with Andrew Dice Clay," Stepan Center. 7 p.m. Concert: "2 Live Crew," Theodore's Nightclub, "on the campus." 9 p.m. Erotic Massage Lessons, Eileen Kolman, Year of Women Chair, Rockne Memorial Gymnasium. 10 p.m. Lingerie show. Linebacker Lounge. Midnight Lecture: "Chips, dips, chains and whips: How to please your man," Ann Firth, University Health Center, 2nd Floor. 2 a.m. Film: "Adventures in Erotica," part of the Snite's Nites of Nudity film festival, Annenberg Auditorium. 
~ 

By I. M. WOMYN 
Accent writer 
Many men dream of doing it. But few actually go through with transsexual surgery. 
William "Gimme A" Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College is one of them. 
By the end of this academic year, Hickey will have completed enough estrogen injections and electrolysis treatment to prepare him/herself for the sex change. He/she plans on having the operation completed in time to present him/herself as "one stacked momma" for the incoming freshwomyn at Saint Mary's in the Fall. 
"I've always, always dreamed of becoming a woman," Hickey said. "I never knew I could go through with it, but after the uproar last year about Saint Mary's needing a female president, I knew I'd have the support I needed to see my dream become a reality." 
Hickey is married, but doesn't think his/her wife will mind the sex change, and thinks it might actually enhance their relationship. 
"So far, she's been great," he/she said. "And I can't wait to borrow her clothes." 
Campus reaction to Hickey's decision was mixed. "You know, I thought the Little Bo Peep thing last fall was weird, but this just blows my mind," said Saint Mary's student I.M. Horny. 
"It'll be reassuring to have someone at 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
the top who can understand the problems faced by today's woman," said Prof. PM. 
s. 

According to Hickey, the decision to become a "long, lean, leg machine" has been a long time coming. He/she said that as a child, musical influence<; like Helen Reddy's "I Am Woman" helped fuel a fiery desire to "live as only the feminine do." 
Among Hickey's hobbies as a child were "Barbies, Barbies, and MORE Barbies," he/she said. He/she also enjoyed playing with the neighborhood girls a game he/she called, "Let's take off all our clothes and switch." 
Hickey cited a "strong, stern mother," a "fear of vasectomies," and "just plain nuttiness" as other factors which helped him/her take the plunge. 
Of course, Hickey will have to change his/her name after the operation, and said favorites include Rhoda, Pearl, and Juanita. 
''I'm having trouble deciding, because I want the name I choose to fully express my sensual femininity as well as my administrative strength." 
Beyond the name, Hickey said his/her main goal is to create a look that really stands out. "I'm seriously considering having my body sculpted to look exactly like the Channel 28 weather babe, Michelle Hammrick." 
"I figure, if I'm going to do it, I might as go all the way," Hickey said. "And if anybody does, Michelle does." 

The former Bill Hickey poses in his new Chanel suit as he shows the world the new SMC president. Hickey is in the process of changing his/her sex. 
ALF announces call boxes, other improvements to the Hesburgh Library 
By U.B. STOKED 
Library Reporter 
The Association of Library Friends (ALF) announced many changes to be taking place over the summer. To commemorate the occasion, both members showed up to make the an­nouncements. 
Among the many changes an­nounced: 
• The entire third floor (popularly known as "The Fortress") will be donated to SUFR to be used for meetings, rallies, protests and anything else that might otherwise re­quire public space. 
An ALF spokesman said "We believe in everyone's freedom of expression, but, well, let's face it, they're getting annoying. We needed to give them a place where they could speak, but we wouldn't be forced to listen to them." 
The group will be provided with complimentary supplies of chalk, copies of the bestseller "How to Ruin Your Image with Graffiti," and a free Paul Peralez 3000TM dartboard. 
• "Touchdown Jesus," the famous mural on the south side of the library, will be "favorably altered" to reflect the University's new commitment to a politically correct en­vironment. 
The spokesman said that the new mural will not "show any prejudices with regards to gender, race, color, national origin, age, sexual preference, or any other politically incorrect stance." 
Anybody who has any ideas on haw this can be done is asked to call ALF at 1-800-GTA­CLUE. 
• The men's restrooms located on the upper floors of the library will now be equipped with emergency call boxes. 
In addition, due to popular demand, the restrooms will also have monthly issues of "Cosmo" and "GQ". 
• The twelfth floor will receive the new Digger Phelps Coaching Collection, sponsored by Over­coachers Anonymous. The col­lection will include such literary classics as "Paradise Lost," "The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," and transcripts from Donahue's Episode 178, which featured Phelps. 
The show, if you'll recall, was titled "Coaches who Coach Too Much, and the Players who Play for Them." 
• 
Free samples of the brand­new ROCKET RUBBERTM con­doms will be made available in the Library Pit. The condoms, endorsed by soon-to-be New England Patriot receiver Raghib Ismail, will come in a variety of sizes (Punter, Quarterback, Linebacker and Oh, my God!) and will be the first condoms in the country to bear the "Monk" Malloy health warning: "Do not take off early, or you'll regret it." 

•The 
Library Monitors will be armed with UZI machine guns and will have the authority to frisk and strip search each individual entering and leaving the building. 


The increased power will be a godsend to these public servants, according to the head monitor. "Once and for all, we're going to stop those snot­nosed rich kids from smuggling Diet Coke into this Library. And they can just kiss any thought of stealing old copies of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue." 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
•Executive 
Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp confirmed yesterday that former University President Father Edward Malloy is still alive. Beauchamp was contacted yesterday by The Observer after an anonymous source reported sighting Malloy at a campus lecture. The community had become concerned, as the former president had not been seen in public since .January 21, the day SUFR made demands on the University. "lie does have office hours in Sorin Hall from 2 to 3 a.m.," Beauchamp said. "All (except women) are welcome to see him at that time." 

• 
Now that Lent Is over, University Food Services has issued a press release explaining exactly what is in those meatless dishes. Would you believe-hemp! "Ever since that hippie-guy came to spnak at ND in the fall we've tried to figurn out how we could usfl hemp in the preparation of food," said Hon Athey, assistant director of Food Services. "We figured Lent would be a great time to try out our new meatless hemp-burger. Now that we've tried it once, the possibilities are limitless..." 

• 
It looks like Ricky Watters has fumbled for the last time. While attempting to sign a pro contract with the Chicago Bears, Watters droppnd the pen. "It's Lou Holtz's fault. He never let me writfl my own stuff. He always made the tutors do it," Watters said at a press conference Monday. His publicity team announced new plans for Watters' future that include being a stunt double on HBO's "First and Ten," a guest appearance on "American Gladiators" and an underwear line called ".Just Drop 


It!" 
• 
Notre Dame's new Student Body President .Joseph Blanco announced that the 1991-92 academic year will be "The Year of Hemp." '1\venty percent of next year's budget will be devoted to "investigating how hemp can be more effectively used at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said Blanco. His plans for the year include weekly love-ins, updating rules in dormitories permitting marijuana behind closed doors and the inclusion of hashish brownies in the dining hall's dessert menu. Blanco issued the press release from his second-floor office in LaFortune Student Center, where the air was said to be "thick with smoke." 

• 
The Identity of "Little Bo Peep," the mysterious costumed killer who terrorized Saint Mary's on Halloween night, has been discovered. 1991-92 Student Body President Maureen Lowry was launching an early campaign for office and was illustrating her platform on Notre Dame-Saint Mary's relations. "You know what it says in the rhyme," said Lowry, '".Just leave them alone, and they'll come home, wagging their tails behind them.' I didn't mean to frighten anyone." 

•1990-91 
Student Body President Hob Pasin and Vice President Fred Tombar announced that the remainder of Student Government's 1990-91 budget will finance the first annual Student Body Orgy. "We decided that since the liberals on campus were mad at us for sending that group to the anti­abortion rally, we needed to do something to appease them," Pasin told a press conference Monday. "We'd hate to have anyone mad at us." Pasin emphasized that Hocket Condoms will bP liberally used at the orgy, which will be the first event held in the new multi-cultural center. 

• 
Sports Marketing Manager Bill Scholl. responding to the poor turnout at Olympic sporting events by the student body, announced yesterday that in accord with next year being "The Year of Hemp," all students in attendance will receive a free bag of hemp. "It's the only option left open to us," Scholl said. "It's either that or making the games free to the students, and why would we want to do something stupid like that?" 

• 
The Morris Inn has announced that in light of last week's act of arson by New Kid on the Block Donnie Wahlberg in a Kentucky hotel room, the Morris Inn will fireproof each of the 13 rooms the group has reserved for its April concert at Notre Dame. According to an unidentified source at the Morris Inn, "Well, we were worried enough about the influx of elementary­school age females that have been known to follow the group. But after this fire thing, we see a definte reason to be scared." 

• 
The Observer proudly announces its new publishing schedule for the 1991-1992 academic year. It will publish only on Mondays and Fridays during football season, and each issue will be devoted to providing "the finest coverage of the Notre Dame football team we can," said editor-in-chief Kelley Tuthill. 


THIS IS A JOKE. IT IS ONLY A JOKE. LAUGH. 
If you left your sense of humor at home over Easter, you have the perverse individuals at The Observer to thank for the content of today's issue. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Observer lacks sufficient sports coverage 
Dear Editor, 
Recently, while reading through the fascist, psuedo-Nazi chunk of feces you call a newspaper, I noticed that approximately 85.987 percent of your publication verbiage is devoted to athletic pursuits. 
Once again, The Observer caters to the anti-intellectual neanderthalism by devoting over 14 percent of your trashy, worn-out pages to activities other than sports. 
As I leafed through today's paper, I noticed 13 articles on WVFI and progressive music, three book reviews and eight art reviews. Not once did I see you mention that the .Junior Varsity Tiddly Winks Club won its regional championship. As usual, the homogeneous, intolerant elitists of Notre Dame have forced their narrow­minded, scatalogical beliefs on the public at large. 
Surely, there is enough space for more sports. Or is it that the pea-brained nimrods at our sorry excuse for a daily newspaper don't know how to write real sports stories? This could be the case. 
In fact, I tried to write for The Observer once, but they tried to get me to write news articles. Pshaw! Surely, they cannot expect another free-spirit to succumb to the erowd-logic that infests the blood monied ivy walls of this pitiful institution. If they want someone to write pathetic prose to be spoon-fed to capitalist pigs, let them look elsewhere. 
If Notre Dame is to get the sports coverage it deserves, The Observer is not the place. Let those looking for real sports look elsewhere. 
Jeff Jotz Fisher Hall 

Pasin and Tombar want you at the Student Body Orgy 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to take this opportunity to invite the entire student body to our final activity as Student Body President and Vice President, the Student Body Orgy, tonight at 8 p.m .. 
We know that our sponsorship of an anti-abortion rally earlier this year raised some ruckus among our more liberal constituents. In light of this, Student Government has planned this soiree to satisfy their demands as well as pro­vide some end-of-the-year fun for everyone. 
· The purpose of the Orgy is two-fold: First, due to much concern about male-female and race relations at ND/SMC, we feel that an organized sex-fest would be the most logical way to address the issue and to provide a tension-free meeting place for males and females. 
Therefore, we are holding the event in the new multi-cultural center in the 2nd floor multi­mattress room. 
Secondly, we realize that there has also been concern on both campuses about gays and lesbians. While we do not en­dorse any homosexual organi­zation, we offer the Orgy as a much-needed opportunity for these students to enlighten and entertain their peers. 
Please note that this is in no way a recruiting meeting for any group nor is is it to be in­terpreted as a dating service. 
SMOKE HEMP... DRINK BEER... HAVE SAFE SEX... 
MOM WOULD BE PROUD. 
We merely offer this mecca of potentially kinky fun as a means to unwind and relax, all at the expense of Student Government. 
We invite all students to at­tend this extravaganza. Pre­orgy entertainment will be pro­vided by award-winning lam­bada dance team Father Robert Griffin and Ann Pettifer. Whipped cream, Wesson oil and Hocket Condoms will be pro­vided free of charge. 
So put on your Sunday best and get creative. We will!! 
Rob Pasin 
Student Body 
President 
Fred Tombar 
Student Body 
Vice President 

~~w hen I want to blast off, there's only one condom I like to use ... mine. No other condom guarantees extra protection...or offers such a variety of colors and flavors. When you want to use your rocket, keep this in your pocket." 
News
April Fool's Day 
page 4 

Administration gives SUFR complete autonomy 
Response to student demands is 'beyond our wildest dreams' says Villegas 
By MAL COLMEX 
Sports Writer 
The Administration has responded to SUFR's demends "beyond our wildest dreams," SUFR member Pedro Villegas said at a press conference Monday. 
In a gesture that touched the entire campus Monday afternoon, University President Father Edward A. Malloy announced his intentions to abdicate in favor of Director of Minority Student Affairs Ken Durgans. 
"We want to give the students of SUFR complete autonomy on campus. I feel that there is no better man at Notre Dame to ensure this than Ken Durgans," Malloy said. 

"I am looking forward to taking Notre Dame into unchartered territory," said Durgans. "Father Malloy will be a tough act to follow, but I am confident that I an ready for the challenge." 
Officials at the Hesburgh Library have already made public their intentions to change the name of the library to honor Durgans. In a similar gesture, the Controller's office has offered to expand Durgans' budget and to give him complete autonomy in the hiring of a personal masseuse, three valets and a mariachi band. 
Durgans' inauguration is scheduled to take place this afternoon, on the steps of the Main Building. The ceremony will begin with Student Body Vice President Fred Tombar's rendition of "I Have a Dream." A picnic will follow, featuring a sidewalk chalk drawing competition. 
Decisions were also announced concerning the use of Theodore's. Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara confirmed that the former nightclub will be partitioned into adminstrative offices so that the Main Building may be converted to a Multi-Cultural Center. 
"We [the administration] feel strongly that we need to make this sacrifice for the sake of promoting true diversity at Notre Dame. We have made arrangements for President Durgans to have a roomier office by allocating him the current Office of Minority Affairs. He won't even have to pack up and move that way," said O'Hara. 
The sound system currently installed in Theodore's will be moved to the current Office of Student Affairs. which will be converted to a dance club complete with strobe lighting, Keg-er-ators and a 24-hour deejay. 
"Although," noted O'Hara, "SUFR students should not be shy about using the sound system. They should feel free to experiment." 
O'Hara also announced that each SUFR member will be assigned one of the new townhouses currently being constructed behind the D2 
Cop: SUDS to 'get tough' 
By BUZZ KILLER 
Sports Writer 
Members of the St. Joseph County Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (SUDS) Task Force held a press conference yesterday morning to announce new procedures to be implemented immediately. 
SUDS spokeman Sgt. James Moon outlined the policy as one which will "definitely get those punks over at Notre Dame to stop breaking the law." 
No longer will SUDS members be handing out tickets or carting students to jail. Instead, the officers will be issued billy clubs, stun guns, and rubber bullets, and have been authorized "to use these weapons indiscriminately in the ongoing effort to curb underage alcohol consumption and possession." 
"Well, since fines and community service just weren't getting the job done, we figured the only way to get the message across was to beat these kids senseless," Moon said. "I mean, my father whipped me all the time as a child, and look how law­abiding I turned out." 
South Bend mayor Joe Kernan also attended the press conference, and he approved of the measures. 

"We're tired of Notre Dame students running amok through our town," Kernan said. "It's time to knock some sense into these kids. Maybe a few days in the hospital will make them think twice before drinking illegally." 
Newly appointed University President Kenneth Durgans also was present, announcing that all Students United For Respect (SUFR) members could stop by the Notre Dame Security office to pick up a special card which would exempt them from the new policy. 
According to Durgans, the cards will be free of charge, with the money to pay for them to come from a $10 increase in the activities fee on non-SUFR students. These cards also are good for a 50 percent discount on drinks. 
"We just wanted to avoid trouble," Moon said. "They were planning a march through downtown if we didn't issue them these cards. Frankly, we're scared to death of SUFR, and we figured if we gave in on this issue, they'd leave us alone." 
Moon brushed off questions concerning the legality of the new procedures. 
"Who cares? We're tired of Notre Dame students laughing at us during raids, so it's our chance to get even," he said. "We 'II see who gets the last laugh now." 
Gay and Lesbian group recognized by ND/SMC 
By HOMO PHOBIA 
Sports Writer 
The group known as Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be undergoing a name change this week. 
Notre Dame's Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara announced Monday that "effective immediately," the group will be officially recognized by the University and may be renamed "Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's college, concurred. "Lesbians on the Saint Mary's campus will be treated with every consideration from now on," he said. 
Leaders of the previously 

unrecognized group hailed the decision, saying, "It's about time." 
"If the administration thinks that recognizing us now can make up for years of discrimination against us, they've got another thing coming," said group leader Michael Yore. "We still have a long way to go." 
The group is preparing a list of demands to submit to Hickey and Notre Dame President Kenneth Durgans. 
"If SUFR can get what they want, so can we," said Yore. The demands will include: 
•That the administration designate one male dorm and one female dorm as 'Sexual Diversity' dormitories, intended to promote sexual tolerance between Notre Dame students. The group emphasizes that the dorms are not intended to promote separatism between heterosexual and homosexual students. Heterosexuuals should feel free to live in the two dorms also. Yore suggested Zahm and Breen-Phillips at Notre Dame and Regina Hall at Saint Mary's as possible dorms to be converted. 
•That 
the University strive to increase the percentage of homosexual faculty teaching at Notre .Dame to 10%, commensurate with the number of students on campus thought to be homosexual. 

•That 
the University repeal the portion' of du Lac which forbids students to engage in premarital sex. "This policy is · 


discriminatory toward gay students, who can't get married at all (although we'll see about that later)," said Yore. 
•That 
the University open the Alumni-Senior Club on Tuesday nights so that GLND/SMC may sponsor social activities there. 

•That 
all GLND/SMC students be permitted to park next to the football players in their new lot behind the administration building. 


"This is not a complete list," Yore assured reporters. Believe me, there will be more." 
"I am happy to meet with these students at a designated time and place to discuss their demands," commented Durgans. "They have some very valid concerns. 

parking lot. 
"Although these residences were originally intended for graduate students, we were glad to offer SUFR students the townhouses in exchange for their dorm rooms. We feel it was the least we could do," said GSU president Arsene Balihuta. 
Even Joe Cassidy, Director of Student Activities, was eager to jump on the bandwagon. 
"We've rebooked all the activities scheduled for South Quad for the remainder of the semester so that SUFR may use it to host multicultural keg parties, which all students are encouraged to attend in the name of cultural visibility aod social diversity. Or is it cultural diversity and social visibility? I seem to have forgotten ...?" 
Football team given par~ing lot beh1nd Dome 
By J. OCK SNIFF 
Observer Football Writer 
In response to recent de­mands made by members of the football team, Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security, has announced that the parking lot behind the Administration Building will be turned over to the team. 
Complaints were voiced by members of the team who had their new Mercedes and other luxury cars broken into in the D-6 and D-2 lots. "I'm not going to spend $90,000 on a Mercedes only to have it broken into on campus," said I.M. Showy, senior. "Plus, those other lots are too far away from campus... not that I'm on campus very much anymore." 
Many of the members of the football team have used ad­vances from pro-contracts to purchase new things, including cars. Fearing for their cars' safety in parking lots surround­ing campus, members of the team demanded that an inner­campus lot be turned over to the team by April 1. 
"These boys are NO's finest," said Johnson. "If they want they're cars given extra protec­tion, well, then, my boys will be more than happy to oblige." He explained that cameras will be placed around the lot and a twenty-four-hour guard sta­tioned at its entrance. The lot will be renamed the "Rockne Parking Pavilion." 
In addition, phones will be 
placed in the lot so players can 
call their girlfriends and let 
them know when they will be 
home. Lighting, of course, will 
be bountiful preventing any 
would-be-attackers from at­
tempting to assault any of the 
athletes.ee 
Johnson also mentioned that 
members of Students United for 
Respect (SUFR) will also be 
allowed to use the Rockne lot. 

Wednesday, April 3, 1991 . The Observer page 19 

Rob And Fred Would Like To SQUEEZE In AFew More Words, Before Joe And Dave Give Their... 

APRIL 3rd, 1991 • 7PM • CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 
~TUDE •NT 
&OVIIIIIIl 

Come See Rob And Fred's Farewell, And Joe And Dave's Hello! 
...  
~  I I I l  
I I  
w  I I I I I I I  




page 20 The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1991 
White Sox to announce today signing of Bo Jackson 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP)-The Chicago White Sox have called a "major" news conference for Wednesday morning and ESPN reported the club will announce the signing of Bo Jackson. 
Jackson, a two-sport star, was released by the Kansas City Royals on March 18 when the team determined his football­related hip injury would not al­low him to play this season. 
White Sox officials in Sarasota would not confirm the report late Tuesday night. 
But White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf, asked Tuesday afternoon about rumors that the team would sign Jackson, said the situation was up to Jackson's agent, Richard Woods. Reinsdorf said that when Jackson decided which team he wanted to sign with, the deal would be completed within two hours. 
Royals doctors said they do not believe Jackson will be able to play baseball this year, and possibly ever again. But Dr. James Andrews, a leading orthopedic specialist in the ath­letic field, examined Jackson and did not rule out a return to pro sports. 
ESPN also reported Tuesday night that Jackson's hip prob­lem might not be as bad as feared. 

Jackson has one year left on his $7.4 million contract with the NFL's Los Angeles Raiders. The Raiders said they will stick with him, and expect him to be ready to play next season. 
He was due to be paid $2.375 million by the Royals this sea­son before being released. By 

ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
\ 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
WEDNESDAY APRIL 3rd THURSDAY APRIL 4th Between 9:00-4:00 at the 
-
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



letting Jackson go, Kansas City only had to pay him one-sixth of that total, or about $400,000. 
When Jackson was released by the Royals the 28-year-old outfielder was said to be suffering from two conditions. One is chondrolysis, the destruction of cartilage in his hip joint. 
In addition to chondrolysis, Jackson is suffering from avas­cular necrosis, the partial loss of blood supply to the head of the femur, the "ball" in the ball­and-socket hip joint. 
The avascular necrosis is probably a consequence of a hip dislocation and fracture that Jackson sustained in the game against the Bengals. 
Jackson was MVP of the 1989 baseball All-Star game and was selected as a reserve running back to this seasons NFL's Pro Bowl. 
But he injured his hip when he was tackled from behind on Jan. 13 in a playoff game 
against Cincinnati, and had
been on crutches throughout spring training with the Royals. 
The New York Yankees, who decided not to claim Jackson for $1, said they consulted with six orthopedic specialists and reviewed Jackson's medical re­port before deciding to pass. 
In slightly more than four full seasons with Kansas City, Jackson hit 109 homers with 313 RBis and a .250 career av­erage, which he improved each year. Jackson hit .272 with 28 home runs and 78 RBis last season. 
Men's track finishes close 2nd; O'Connor qualifies for IC4A's 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
Despite excellent perfor­mances from several Notre Dame track athletes, host Rice beat out the Irish, 73 points to 66, at the Meeting of the Minds Invitational at Houston, Texas. 
The 200-meter race was the showcase of the meet, as Raghib Ismail made his collegiate outdoor debut. The Notre Dame junior jumped out to an early lead, but Rice junior Gabriel Luke caught Ismail near the 100-meter mark and did not look back, winning the 200­meter race in 20.79 seconds. 
Willie Clark, a Notre Dame freshman, finished second in 20.92, while Ismail faded to fourth behind Rice's Keith Nunn. Ismail will likely focus on the 100 meters for the remain­der of the outdoor season. 
Clark, whose strong finish in the 200 meters threatened Luke 
presents A WAREHOUSE SALE 
STONEWASHE DENIM SHIRTS
$1299
...
·~m A label you'll recognire 
~ I 
·en 
0 
"0 --------,
·­
POCKET TEES

"0 
Men's Prewash 

0 All Cotton 0) 
$599 

0) 
<0...--­
0 CJ) 
a. 
0 
1-­1-­
::::> 0 
JEAN SHORTS
:::.::: 
Men's & Ladies'/ Pre-wash
c: 
0 
Pleats 

$1 299
;?: 
cuffs w 
(.) 
/~.
w w Vuarnet & L.A. Gear -I 
ACTIVEWEAR
1.1. 
NOW $ 99 

en 
cu 
"'C l#@iji1ij 
., 
tJJ 
<D -1 
m 
m 
(/) 
I 
0 
0 0 
-t\ 
""" 
c: 
"'0 

C"rl~~ 
""" 

"'C 
LADIES• ESPRIT ASSORTED 
~ JI~Otl"Z. 
:::J
....

<t 
;I

CASUAL SPORTSWEAR 
MEN'S SHORTS-SHORTS 
(/J

_en 
c: 
Q) 
,,,l:E 
·en 
c 
"C
·-"C 
c 10 
ONE DAY ONLY! 
LAFORTUNE

WEDNESDAY APR!L 3RD 
10:00 A.M.-5:00P.M. 

at the tape, won the 100 meters at 10.60. Fellow freshman Clint Johnson clocked in at 11.30 for a fifth-place finish. 
High hurdler Lake Dawson, another Notre Dame freshman, brought the Irish victory as well. His 14.77 clocking edged Rice's Eric Dorn, who was timed at 14.78. 
Mike O'Connor set a meet record with his winning time of 
14:26.97 at 5,000 meters. The time qualified him for the IC4A outdoor championships. Following O'Connor were Pat Kerns and Nick Radkewich, who finished second and fourth, respectively. 
Ryan Cahill took first-place honors at 1,500 meters, with a time of 3:55.12. J.T. Burke was the nearest Irish runner, in fourth place with a time of 3:56.85. 
The I ish javelin throwers re­peated tneir 1-2 finish of a year ago. Ryan Mihalko again took 
RUSSELL By Russell Athletic RUSSELL ATHLETIC Major_Coll~ge $799ATHLETIC 
& Unrvers1ty Prints 
MEN'S 

TEES! TEES! TEES! $399 
All Cotton 

Men's Shorts &Tees 
LVISA STUDENT CENTER 
THEODORE'S CONCOURSE 

first place, with a throw of 206-1, while Matt DeAngelis earned second with a mark of 185-0. 
Notre Dame's discus throwers continued the Irish success in the field, as Oscar McBride, Tony Smith, and John Smerek finished in second through fourth places, respectively. Harvard's Nick Sweeny won the discus with an NCAA-qualifying throw of 180-4. 
The first three places of the high jump were swept by the Irish, as John Cole led the pack with a 6-10 effort. Paul Maloney and Todd Herman cleared the bar at 6-8 and 6-6, respectively. 
Notre Dame, however, did not fare as well in the other jumps. Pole vaulter Greg Matteo was credited with no height in his event. while no Notre Dame triple jumper placed. In the long jump, Jeff Smith cracked the top five for the Irish, with a jump of 23-5. 

Wednesday, April 3, 1991 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Thelrlsh Heartlltes fun  runs are coming up  •women's Bookstore Basketball: absolute  
April  11th. There will be  a  3 &  6 mile run.  final sign-ups must be in by Wednesday, April 3,  
Students and staff should start training now.  by calling 283-1093.  
•scorekeepersare needed for the Bookstore  • The Cycling Club welcomes anyone who  
Basketball  Tournament.  Anyone  who  is  would like to be a part of the "riding team" or  
inltm~sted  should contact Shelley Guilbaut at  who would like to try out for the racing team for  
21-!3-2549.  the fall.  All interested students can contact John  
Puskas at 283-3317 or the Club Secretary, Mike  
I•AnTostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be  Black, at 283-1890.  
lwld Thursday and Friday April 4th and 5th from  
4  to  6  pm  in  the S.U.B.  office.  For  more  
information call l.ou at 2H3-2071. Minimum two  • The WVFI Sports Trivia contest are tonight  
wom1~n per lt•am. Entry charge is $5 per team.  at 8:00 pm at Bruno's pizza. Come out to support  
teams from O.C, Morissey, Fisher, and Stanford.  


•ND/SMC Sailing Club: a reminder to sailing eam members, there will be mandatory practice, •NVA Walkaway Program is beginning onceWednnsday and Thursday at 3:00 pm at the 
t
again. Enjoy a 30 minute walk beginning at
outhouse. 12:10 in front of Washington Hall. 
Attention crew members: A very important •Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules 
me~Jting will be held Wednesday, April 3 at 7:30 should be picked up this Thursday and Friday in pm in 127 NiiJuwland. Be there. the S.U.B. office at ND and the S.A.B. at SMC. 
Flanagan  Christie Flenegen Ceraer Totllls  
Rushes  Yerds  TD  Rush evg  
continued tram page 28  Rushing  265  1822  14  6.4 yards  
stay~Jd in Port Arthur to help  Att/Com Yerds  TO  
with his family stevedore oper- Pesslng  24172  341  1  
ation, but returned to South  Rec  Yerds  TD  
Bend for the unveiling of the  Receiving  7  62  1  
Knute Hockne commemorative  lnt  Yards  KO Ret  Yards  TO  PAT  
stamp and the sixtieth reunion  Special  3  45  12  278  1  5  
of the class of 1927.  


page 21 
-


AP Photo Future Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan and his son Reid dueled in a game between the Rangers and the University of Texas. 
It's Ryan vs. Ryan, as legend faces son Reid 
AUSTIN. Texas lAP) -Texas Rangers' star pitcher Nolan Ryan said his matchup Tuesday night against his 18-year-old son took him into unfamiliar territory. 
The hoopla surrounding the game also took Reid Ryan into unchartered waters. Several network television cameramen followed him to class around the Texas campus during the past week. 
The game, at Texas' 5,000­seat Disch-Falk Field, was sold out for months. 
"This is a different situation than what I've ever been in," Nolan Ryan said. 'Til approach it as any other game when I'm pitching, but when I'm on the bench, I'll be pulling against my teammates." 
It was the first known official pitching matchup between a major leaguer and his son. 
The Society of American Baseball Research said there have been 122 cases in major league history in which both a father and son or sons have played in a major league regu­lar season game. 
The only father-son combina­tion to appear in the big leagues at the same time was Ken Griffey Sr. and Jr., both of the Seattle Mariners. 
"The last couple of days, it has been hectic," Reid Ryan said. "It hasn't been all that difficult. ­I've just had to cut out some of my free time." 
Ryan, 44, said his son "has been around the game so he knows how to pitch. He's not as gifted as some, but his know!-.. edge of pitching makes him more effective." 
He added that Reid is a much better pitcher than he was when he was 18. 
"He's much farther along than I was at this stage as a pitcher," Ryan said. "I was blessed with more ability." 
-~----------------~-------~-­
-


The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1991 
Duke finally wins national title 
After nine attempts, Blue Devils capture elusive crown 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Duke's Brian Davis raised a banner that said it all: "UNLV DYNASTY" crossed out by a red slash, with "DUKE DESTINY" underneath in royal blue. 
Duke, the team that couldn't win the big one, won the na­tional championship UNLV couldn't lose. No one, including the seemingly invincible Runnin' Rebels and upstart Kansas, could deny Duke its destiny after 28 years of Final Four frustration. 
In their ninth trip to the Final Four and fifth to the title game, the Blue Devils (32-7) beat the Jayhawks 72-65 Monday night and ended forever this fixation with failure. 
"It's never been a monkey on my back," said coach Mike Krzyzewski, who has led Duke to the Final Four in five of the last six seasons. "I'm just happy for my team. Did you see their faces?" 
Two of the biggest smiles be­longed to Duke's dynamic duo, center Christian Laettner and guard Bobby Hurley. 
Laettner scored 18 points, in­cluding a championship game­record 12-for-12 from the foul line, and grabbed 10 rebounds to lead the Blue Devils' inside attack. Hurley ran the slickest floor show this side of Las Vegas, getting nine assists and 12 points, while committing only three turnovers against Kansas' pressure defense. 
"Our two keys guys through­out ·the year -Christian and Bobby -came through again tonight," Krzyzewski said. 
Laettner was the tournament's most outstanding player and joined Hurley on the all­tournament team. 
'Tm happy about it, but I'm happier about other things," Laettner said. ''I'm happy about winning the national championship and about giving a really big trophy to Coach K that he can carry home to Duke. I'm also happy for our other coaches and our fans ... because we're in it for the team, not just personal honors." 
The loss ended a remarkable run by Kansas (27-8). which knocked off Indiana, Arkansas and North Carolina during a 10-day span to reach the championship game. 
"I'm sure Duke is very proud at this moment, but so are we," said Kansas coach Roy Williams. "I hope they always remember this season, and how they came together at the end." 
The Jayhawks were hoping to repeat the miracle of 1988, when Danny Manning led an­other underdog Kansas squad to the national title. But the Jayhawks couldn't overcome a determined Duke team, which managed to avoid a letdown following its emotional upset of UNLV in the semifinals. 
"In the back of our minds, I think some of us thought Saturday's game was the big game. So Coach K had to talk to us and bring us in focus," said senior forward Greg Koubek, who scored all five of his points in the first 1 1/2 minutes. 
While the most of the postgame focus was on Krzyzewski, Laettner and Hurley, they shared the spot­light with Bill McCaffrey. The sophomore guard scored 16 points off the bench, hitting 6­of-8 from the field, including 2­for-3 from 3-point range. 
After Kansas cut Duke's eight­point halftime lead to 44-40 early in the second half, McCaffrey hit a 15-foot jumper, a 3-pointer and a layup during a 17-7 run that gave the Blue Devils a 61-47 lead, their biggest margin of the game. 
"This is something you dream about," McCaffrey said. "It's a great feeling." 
Her name is Mary, her birthday was on Easter Sunday, and she reads the Bible daily ... all the Dominican sisters are so proud of her! 
In the Kansas locker room, the feeling wasn't so great. The Jayhawks missed nine layups, shot only 42 percent from the field and were outscored 20-4 from the foul line primarily be­cause Duke was more aggres­sive on offense. 
"We weren't attacking the basket," said center Mark Randall, who led Kansas with 18 points and 10 rebounds. "We were too casual with the ball, but you have to give Duke credit. They played tough de­fense." 
Williams felt it just wasn't the Jayhawks' night. 
"I thought we got some very good shots, but we couldn't put them down," he said. "That's why Duke is celebrating and we're not." 
Hurley pumped up the Blue Devils with sensational alley­oop passes that led to rim­rattling dunks by Grant Hill and Brian Davis. Hill's off-balance, one-handed jam capped a game-opening 7-1 run. The Davis dunk gave Duke a 53-43 lead with about 14 minutes left in the game, and seemed to take the air out of a Kansas comeback. 
"Coach called that one in the huddle," said Hurley, who played every minute in both Final Four games. "He said if they changed defenses it would be there. It was a good call by Coach. 
"It was about time." 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'lOUR UFE 
American Heart ft Association V' 

'­
' 
-
' 
... 
(AP)-For a team that doesn't have a player with 25 goals or 75 points, the Washington Capitals have a lot of confidence as they enter the playoffs. 
But the Caps have reason to be upbeat as they prepare to visit Madison Square Garden to meet the New York Rangers in one of Wednesday night's four playoff openers. While the Rangers fell apart, dropping out of first place wih a 2-9-1 season-ending slide, the Capitals went 9-4-2 in their fi­nal 15 games to climb from fifth to third. 
"With the amount of adversity we faced this year -with all the ups and downs -we're peaking at the right time," said defenseman Kevin Hatcher, Washington's top scorer with 24 goals and 74 points. "For once, we've put together 10, 15 solid games." 
In the other Patrick Division opener Wednesday night, first­place Pittsburgh hosts New Jersey. In the Adams Division, it's Boston at Hartford and Buffalo at Montreal. 
The other four series begin Thursday. In the Norris Division, it's Minnesota at Chicago and Detroit at St. Louis, while in the Smythe Division, Vancouver visits Los Angeles and Edmonton travels to Calgary. 
A month ago, the Rangers looked like a cinch for their second straight Patrick Division title. But that was before they stumbled. 
"It's tough (to judge the Rangers)," Washington de­fenseman Rod Langway said. "We haven't seen them for a while. But when you start the playoffs, you start from scratch." 
The last meeting between the teams was Feb. 27, when they played to a 4-4 tie at New York. The Rangers won the season series 4-2-1. 
However, the Capitals beat a banged-up Rangers team in last year's Patrick Division final. The Rangers feel they're healthier this time and that should make a difference. 
"We will only miss Kelly (Kisio)," Rangers center Bernie Nicholls said. "Missing one forward is better than missing half your defense." 
Kisio has been troubled with an injured hip flexor. Last year, the Rangers were missing half of their six regular defensemen, including All-Star Brian Leetch. The Caps will be without Soviet defenseman Mikhail Tatarinov, who tore his left hamstring against New Jersey on Saturday. 
Pittsburgh, which passed the Rangers in the final weeks of the season, has its own injury problems. The Penguins' top scorer, Mark Recchi, did not practice Monday. He sprained his right knee when kneed by Philadelphia's Mark Pederson on Saturday. The Penguins say they expect Recchi to play, but defenseman Grant Jennings won't -he's out after separat­ing his left shoulder Sunday night against the. Rangers. 
The Devils, who lost all four regular-season visits to Pittsburgh but won three times at the Meadowlands, feel they can beat the Penguins despite a season-long struggle on the road. 
"If we play them the way we did the last time they were here, l feel very strongly that we can beat them," coach Tom McVie said. 
Boston finished the season with 100 points, 27 more than fourth-place Hartford. The Bruins went 5-0-1 against the Whalers after losing their first two meetings. 
The Whalers were 3-11-5 in their final 19 games, but gen­eral manager Ed Johnston hopes a change in chemistry will reverse last year's seven­game loss to the Bruins. 
"We were never able to get by the first round with the same people we had year in and year out," Johnston said. "We've in­jected new blood here and hopefully changed our chem­istry." 
Buffalo coach Rick Dudley, for one, will be pulling for the Whalers. 
"Both us and the Whalers are huge underdogs, but huge un­derdogs have won before," he said. 

May the Lord be with you, Mary Happy Birthday, MRRY McNeill! 


-~---~­

-----~--------­
·­

Wednesday, April 3, 1991 The Observer page 23 
Men's soccer begins spring scrimmages with Spartans ­
By GREG WACH 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's soccer team scrimmages the Michigan State squad today at 
5:30 on Alumni Field, the Irish will continue their spring self­assessment and their prepara­tion for next fall's campaign. 
This spring's session is tenta· lively scheduled to end on the weekend of April 19-20 with a tournament at Bowling Green University. Thus far this spring the Irish have gone 2-0-1, recording 1-0 wins over Marquette and Oakland (Michigan) and a 3-3 tie with Loyola (Illinois). Marquette had defeated Notre Dame 4-0 during the regular season. 
the Irish, as they enter Coach Mike Berticelli's second year at Notre Dame, hope to improve dramatically on that record. Berticelli attributed some of the past season's results simply to bad luck, and said that' the los­ing record was and wiJI be "uncharacteristic" for the Irish. 
The spring session serves as an opportunity for the team to assess its new personality without the graduating seniors and with several underclassmen assuming increased roles. 
The Irish losses are substan­tial. as they graduate co-cap­tains Danny Stebbins and Paul LaVigne, as well as mainstays Steve LaVigne and Tom Connaghan. However, a combi­nation of experienced under­classmen and highly regarded incoming freshmen provides substantial optimism for next year. 
Next season's captains will be seniors-to-be Brett Hofmann and Kenyon Meyer. Hofmann, a defender, was the 1990-91 team's MVP. He'll be rejoined on defense by Pat Sullivan, an All-Midwestern Collegiate Conference (MCC) Newcomer selection, and Mario Tricoci. 
At midfielder the Irish return co-captain Meyer, Mitch Kern, Brendan Dillman, and Bobby Allong. At forward Irish stand­out Kevin Pendergast will be rejoined by Brendan Murphy. Returning goalkeeper Peter Gulli will be challenged by sev­eral younger players at that position. 
Several underclassmen are gaining valuable game exposure this spring. Mike Palmer is seeing increased playing time at outside midfielder and should contribute in the fall. Matt Fitz is performing well at goalkeeper, and Mike Fitzpatrick is excelling at the midfield position. 
Notre Dame's incoming freshman class is strong, with Parade All-Americans at the midfield position (Jason Fox of Avon High School in Avon, Connecticut) and at goalkeeper (Bert Bader of W.T. White High School in Dallas, Texas). 
The class of 1995 also in­cludes Gene Joseph, who was the 1987 Georgia Player of the Year, Chris Dean, the Player of the Year last year in Texas, and Keith Carlson of Houston, touted as the best forward in his state. 
The Irish soccer players feel that the team unity has been strengthened this spring, and that this bodes well for next fall. They express confidence in Coach Berticelli and confidence that they can improve on their last season. 
Within the MCC they will en­counter Evansville, which was ranked #1 nationally for much of the 1990 season, and St. Louis, which was consistently ranked in the top tnn. Evansville remains powerful despite the loss of several se­niors this spring, and St. Louis appears to have a very strong team for the 1991 season. 
The Notre Dame team, how­ever, seems to be coming to­gether, and the Irish are poised to surprise next fall. 

The 1990-91 team had a dis­appointing 4-11-3 season. and 

Campus Ministry and You  0MPUS MINISTRY  
Fro TOMB To the RY OF THE oss Spons by: Baptist .·t Union Campus Study Campus wship Camp istry Fellowship of ian Athletes Graduate nt Union lc lnterVarsity C n Fellowship Moreau inary Notre Da counter The ND of Faith 7:30 pm, lues April 9, 1991 Sacred H Church  
 


--

------------~---------~-----------~--------------~--~-----~ ~---­
-
Linn no-hits Aces as Irish sweep 
page 24 The Observer Wednesday, April 3, 1991 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball team went on the road for Easter break, winning three of four games to up its overall record to 14-13. 
The Irish split games with Ball State Thursday, winning the first 5-3 and losing the second 3-0. 

Irish pitcher Missy Linn pitched a no-hitter Evansville on Saturday. 
Villanova 
continued from page 28 
Dave Barnard. "This game was a letdown for us overall. We're not going to be able to have games like this if we're going to have a successful season." 
Irish sophomore Brian Mayglothing scored two of his three goals within 30 seconds of each other, dropping the Villanova lead to 12-6. 
Irish sophomore Pat Finn re­placed starter Chris Parent in goal during the fourth quarter, putting on respectable perfor­mance in relief for the second consecutive game. Despite outscoring Villanova 3-2 in the final quarter, the Irish could only cut the lead to five at 13-8 after a goal by senior mid­fielder John Capano, who snagged seven ground balls for Notre Dame. 
"We had to watch Sullivan and do a real good job on him," said Villanova coach Randy Marks. "We put our longsticks 

on  a  couple  their  
middies-Capano  and  
Mayglothing-to  keep their  

offensive threat to a minimum." 
After winning eight of 12 face-offs in the first half, the Irish took a dive in the third quarter, as Villanova took the offensive nod eight times on ten face-otis. 
"We're getting killed on face­otis for the most part this year," said Corrigan. "It's a big problem for us, and it really hurts in a game like this be­cause we were playing a lot of defense anyway. It's something we need to work on." 
The Irish had 32 shots on goal, compared to 49 for Villanova. 
While Notre Dame's perfor­mance Saturday was one quar­ter away from one of the team's best games of the season, the Irish hope to put together a complete game on Saturday at Denison College. 
"We've played well in bunches and we've played poorly in bunches this year," said Corrigan. "We're not 

-
going to play a perfect game, but we've got to get to the point where we don't let our problems compound." 

The next stop was Evansville, where the Irish shut out the Aces twice, 7-0 and 5-0. 
The first game with the Cardinals went into extra innings. The Irish pulled out the victory when Debbie Boulac singled in the game-winning run. The hit scored Christy Connoyer and Rachel Crossen. Meanwhile, Staci Alford pitched a complete game to improve her record to 5-2. 
In the second game, Ball State was able to neutralize the Irish offense when Karen Oliver threw a three-hitter. Missv Linn took the loss to drop her record to 5-8, d~spite giving up six hits and only one earned 'run. Ball State scored two runs in the second inning and one in the sixth. 
The Irish then travelled to face MCC rival Evansville for a doubleheader in which they dominated both games, moving their conference record to 6-0. 
Alford (6-2) earned her fifth consecutive win while surrendering four hits and striking out three. Notre Dame managed six hits in the win. 
The final game of the trip provided some drama. Linn threw a complete game no-hit shutout for the Irish, recording her sixth win against eight losses in the process. She also has won four of her last five games. 
In pitching the no-hitter, Linn faced the minimum number of batters (21). Only one batter distance duo .of Lisa Gorski and Diana Bradley, both of whom recorded personal 


in the 1.500 meter run. 
·····••···.•.•.·.Gorski, a sophomore, placed sixth overall with a time of 4:46 while Bradley followed close behind in 4:47. 
The Irish were also well 
>c• represented in the sprints as the 4x100 relay team finished sixth against highly touted teams from the University of Texas and Houston University. 

m;ti In the field events. Kar:en · u Jlarris''qualified for the shot A,_...._..... put finals en route to an im­
··· < , pressive sixth place perfor­. ·· ·<.,:. mance. •vr: 
····~:E··· 
"'Notre Dame will l()Qk to 
1
upon its opening season this weekend as the ·· 
returns home to face .,John's , Drake, and··:·. Western Michigan. 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER THE WOMEN'S LEGAL FORUM THE YEAR OF WOMEN 
PRESENT A LECTURE BY 
PROFESSOR CASS SUNSTEIN UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SCHOOL OF LAW 
ON 

"ABORTION, PORNOGRAPHY AND SURROGACY ARRANGEMENTS" 
12:00 NOON 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3 
Store Your Stuff ! 
(for· the summer) 
~~M. ·s 
March & April FREE! or 
at the IDI torage $10 OFF Your May Rent*~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~--:-,r-D.,...,elllliiilp_o_t..,..---1
*Present valid Notre Dame I.D. for discount !Notre Dame I Rent a 5x10 or smaller . 
Rent for 4 months (5/1 to 8/31) I I 
DD 
u.s. 
33 'tl 
Mini
Storage

....---'--'---..____------:-'ID; 
m Depot

South .---:­Bend ~:;;..:.;;:;;.;.....;;~...., McKinley Bwy. 
...___. n 1 
I on McKinley 

Call 259-<Y335 
(ask for Laura) 
Wednesday, April 3, 1991 The Observer page 25 
-

Forty-Niners lose Craig and Millen to free agency 
Los Angeles Raiders and Washington Redskins claim superstars off Plan-B free agent list 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP)-Plan B free agency is doing to the San Franciseo 49ers what so many other teams could not, breaking up major parts of the player ensemble formed during a decade of success. 
Sure, Joe Montana is still around to run the offense that helped the 49ers reach the playoffs in each of the past eight seasons, including four Sup!lr Bowl wins. lie can still throw to Jerry Hice and John Taylor. 
But he lost a key member of his supporting cast when run­ning back Hoger Craig, left un­protected, bolted to the Los Angeles Haiders as a Plan B free agnnt. Craig signnd a two­yMr deal Monday night, shortly before expiration of the Plan B signing deadline. 
lie rnjoins former 49nrs de­fensive star Bonnie Lott, a 10­year veteran who was left un­protected despite another Pro Bowl season in 1990. Lott signed with the Haiders a week ago. 
Thn San Francisco defense lost a second starter Monday, when linebacker Malt Millen signed with thn Washington Hedskins to be closer to his hometown of Hokendauqua, Pa. 
San Francisco coach George Seifert called the losses of the three significant, but resisted the notion the 49ers faced a major rebuilding this season. 
"I don't think we're going to enter the season with any dif­ferent expectations," said Seifert, who has guided the team to a Super Bowl win and an NFC championship game appearance in the two seasons since succeeding Bill Walsh. 
The club, though, also is antic­ipating the retirement or de­parture of linebacker Keena Turner, cornerback Eric Wright and wide receiver Mike Wilson, who with Lott and Montana were the five 49ers to play on all four of San Francisco's Super Bowl teams. 
The 49ers, meanwhile, signed eight Plan B free agents, the most since the implementation of the plan three years ago. In each of the previous two sea­sons, the 49ers had signed six. 
Seifert termed the roster changes "a natural process." "We have to look to the future 
and fill these voids, but there are still some very good players here," he said. "I would not like to look at it as rebuilding. Rebuilding is something you should do continuously, although this was more of a significant hit than you nor­mally take." 
Before this year, the 49ers had not lost a starter to Plan B free agency. Tight end Ron Heller, safety Greg Cox and receiver Terry Greer, all reserves, left over the past three years via Plan B, although Cox wound up re-signing with San Francisco last season. 
Seifert said he expected Lott, Craig and Millen to have pro­ductive years this season, but without being specific said the team had its reasons for leaving them unprotected. 
Their ages were an obvious consideration -Craig is 30, Lott will be 32 on May 8 and Millen is 33. 
"It looks to me like the 49ers are a team in a transition," Craig's agent, Jim Steiner, said. "It was in Roger's best interests to move on." 
Craig is the only player in NFL history to top 1,000 yards in both rushing and receiving in a single season. He led the 49ers in rushing from 1985-89, breaking the 1,000-yard mark three times. 
He missed five games with a knee injury last season and rushed for only 439 yards in 141 attempts and caught only 25 passes, all career lows. 
Lott, who went to the Pro Bowl nine times, is the 49ers all-time interception leader, while Millen was one of the club's best run­stoppers. 
Meanwhile, the Super Bowl champion New York Giants lost four Plan B players, all of them reserves. Running back Lee Rouson and kicker Matt Stover both signed with Cleveland, wide receiver Troy Kyles went to San Diego, and safety David Whitmore was signed by San Francisco. Starters like Super Bowl MVP Ottis Anderson and tight end Mark Bavaro were passed up because of age or in­jury. 
The New York Jets signed five players, including defensive linemen John Bosa from Miami and Bill Pickel from the Raiders. 
Chicago lost backup quarter-

Ticket Prices ND/SMC Students: $10.00 -Public: $14.00 TICKETS ON SALE TODAY AT THESE LOCATIONS:
/-. 
--~ ----=-====-

LaFortune Box Office St. Mary's O'Laughlin Track's Records TIC~'itv.lSTGA
<;... . 

(at Information Desk) Auditorium Box 1931 Edison Road --~ 
back Mike Tomczak to Green Bay, one of 13 Plan B players to sign with the Packers. 
Kansas City signed seven play­ers, including running back Troy Stradford from Miami, linebacker Hicky Shaw from Philadelphia and tight end Pete Holohan from the Los Angeles Rams. 
Miami signed running back Don Smith, who scored Buffalo's only touchdown in the Super Bowl, and linebackers Louis Cooper from Kansas City and Ned Bolcar from Seattle. 
Running back Jamie Morris and safety Felix Wright were among nine players signed by Minnesota. Wright led the NFL with nine interceptions in 1989. 
San Diego signed eight play­ers, including quarterback Bob Gagliano from Detroit and guard Mark May from Washington. 
Houston signed seven players, including defensive lineman Robert Banks and wide receiver Cedrick Jones. Banks was drafted by the Oilers in 1987 before going to Cleveland as a Plan B signee in 1988. 
Women 
continued from page 28 
"I though the girl Kim played (Leone) was the best player for Michigan State," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "Everyone played strong singles matches, but Kim had the toughest. The fifth-singles player for State was definitely their strongest girl." 
Closing out the singles matches, Kristy Doran beat Molly West 6-1, 6-4 at sixth singles, and at the seventh slot Catherine McGinley dropped Dana Applegate by a 6-2, 6-2 score. 
The doubles matches proved to be much tougher for the Irish, but Louderback felt that the intensity was lacking since the match had already been won. 
At first doubles, Ann Bradshaw and Tholen pulled out a stirring 6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (7-2) victory over Poffenberger and McDonough. The duo of Eniko Bende and Pacella chalked up a 7-6 (8-6), 6-3 win at second doubles over the Spartan tandem of West and Hurrelbrink. Finally, at the third spot, Doran and Vitale scored the ninth Irish point with a win over Hilbert and Leone. The Irish team led 6-2, 4-6, 4-3 before the State team 

. defaulted, giving ND the point. 
Said Pacella, reflecting on her last home match, "It was like any other match, but in the back of my head I was thinking that I'll never be playing here again. Seeing how far this 
.... 
team has come, it made me proud to be playing at all. was very glad to have these four years and wouldn't trade them for anything." 
The Irish dropped from 21st to 23rd in the latest Volvo col­... legiate poll. Also, the first doubles team of Barton and Faustmann fell from 9th to 15th. With five matches re­maining, four of which are against teams either ranked or also receiving votes in the latest poll, the Irish will need a strong finish against this tough com­petition to have a shot at the twenty-team field of the NCAA tournament. 


-I I The Observer 
Vikings kicker lgwebuike indicted on drug charges 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP)-Donald of him, used him and are still Igwebuike's trademark smile using him." has endeared him to NFL fans Foster said evidence, who know him as "Iggy," but including taped telephone prosecutors said Tuesday they conversations between will reveal another side of the Igwebuike and Ofedu, will show Minnesota Vikings kicker dur­the football player figured to ing his drug smuggling trial. make a $65,000 profit on the 
"We're going to tell you the half-pound of heroin that story of Stone Igwebuike, not Ibekwe was caught trying to Iggy," Assistant U.S. Attorney smuggle into Orlando Todd Foster said during open­International Airport. ing statements, alluding to a lbekwe, who swallowed 33 nickname they said the football thumb-sized pellets of heroin player is known by in his native before boarding a flight from Nigeria. Lagos, Nigeria, was traveling 
Igwebuike, 32, is accused of on a ticket purchased by financing an attempt to bring Igwebuike and also told U.S. $1 million worth of heroin into Customs agents that the place­Florida from Nigeria last kicker gave him $7,000 to take 
_ AP Photo
October. Two other men -to Igwebuike's parents in 
Min~es.ota Viki~gs kicker £?onald lgwebuike headed into a Tampa Federal Courthouse, facing charges of 
Ibezim Ofedu, 27, and Nigeria. 
herom 1mportat1on. If convicted, he could be sentenced up to120 years in prison.
Maduwuba Ibekwe, 32,-have 

pleaded guilty to charges con­The defense maintains that of Ibekwe, who pleaded guilty Ibekwe tried to deliver was to "Stone" is Igwebuike and drugs 
tained in a Nov. 9 indictment, Igwebuike is a generous person to importation of heroin and be taken to New York and sold are being discussed. 
leaving Igwebuike to stand trial "almost to a fault" who pur­will be sentenced July 3, as for Igwebuike. "The tapes aren't cryptic," 
alone. chased lbekwe's ticket for well as the government's Foster said. "It's just drug talk." 
"You're going to learn about a $2,001 as a loan because follow-up investigation that led The taped telephone conversa­man who over his lifetime has Ibekwe told him he needed to to the arrest of Ofedu. tions introduced as evidence Winkles said the tapes will befriended anyone who asks travel because of a death in the are conducted in both English prove nothing. He said Ofedu anything of him," countered de­family. "Unbeknownst to Ofedu, who pleaded guilty last and Igbo, the native language cooperated with the govern­fense attorney Frank Winkles. Donald, there was no death," month to conspiring with of eastern Nigeria. Although ment to try to "save his very "He sits in this courtroom be­Winkles said. Igwebuike, is the prosecution's there are no specific references soul," and that he talks in cir­cause he befriended two Much of the testimony key witness. He said in his plea to heroin on the tapes, prosecu­cles on the tapes, trying to trap Nigerians who took advantage Tuesday focused on the arrest agreement that the heroin tors say a man referred to as Igwebuike. 
Baseball team loses three at Oscar-Mayer Classic 
By RENE FERRAN faced-12 teams ranked in the knocking Leahy out of the box. didn't pitch badly, but he hasn't and Coss hit consecutive sin­Associate Sports Editor Top 20-and that all of its Reliever Alan Walania was been throwing like he can as of gles, and Bautch put down the games have been on the road. greeted rudely by Stanford in late. Dave started slowly last sacrifice. But when pitcher Tim 
Despite three losses at last ''I'm very encouraged, but the the fourth, as back-to-hack hits year too. He wants to do well so Lindsay threw the ball away, weekend's Oscar Mayer Classic road does get to you after a leading off the inning set up badly that sometimes he's his Mee scored and Coss moved to in Minneapolis, Irish head while," Murphy said. "When another Cardinal ruri to tie the own worst enemy." third. He eventually came home baseball coach Pat Murphy re­you play so many games on the game at three. Saturday's encounter with the on Greg Layson's ground-out. tains his vast reserve of opti­road, it's hard to get in synch. I Stanford exploded in the Golden Gophers was almost a mism about his team. don't think we'll hit our cruising eighth. With two outs, sopho­carbon copy of Friday. Notre The rally died when with run­
"We've been a little snakebit point, our peak, for some time, more Dave Sinnes relieved Dame opened a 5-2 lead in the ners at the corners and two the last couple of weekends, but but when we do, I think we're Walania with a runner at sec­sixth inning when Eric outs, Danapilis hit a hard line we're a little road weary," going to be all right." ond. A walk, three hits-includ­Danapilis singled, moved to drive which was snagged by Murphy said. "But the one thing Notre Dame started strong in ing a bloop double lost in the third on Mee's bloop single, and Bruin right fielder David that's encouraging is that we've Friday's game with Stanford. In Metrodome roof-and four runs scored on Matt Haas' double to Tokheim. played with the best, at times the seconsJ-inning, Corey Mee later, Sinnes got the tliird out. left-center. we've beaten the best, and we reached first on a fielder's "Against a team like Stanford, "The way we played against know where we stand. choice and eventually scored on you have to play all nine After Ed Hartwell walked, Joe UCLA was the most encourag­
"If we're not (considered) one Dan Bautch's double to left. innings, and we (only) played Binkiewicz singled home Mee ing thing (about the weekend)," of the best teams in the country, Bautch came home on a eight," Murphy said. "You have and Haas. Hartwell scored on a Murphy said. "While UCLA has I'd be very surprised." Cardinal error, and it was to give (Stanford) credit too, safety squeeze by Bautch. probably the most talented 
However, the three losses to quickly 2-0. because they executed when team I've seen all year, we fourth-ranked Stanford (7-3), Frank Jacobs hit a two-out they had to." But once again, the bullpen didn't quit, and we had a lot of Minnesota (9-5) and UCLA (6-3) homer into the upper deck in Normally a starter, Murphy failed to preserve the lead, as things go against us." have to be considered minor right the next inning to up the does not believe using Sinnes in Minnesota erupted for seven setbacks. Notre Dame now has lead to 3-0. This home run gives a different rolfi affected his runs in the eighth inning. Three The Irish long road streak lost four straight games-its Jacobs 25 in his career, three performance against Stanford. Irish pitchers tried to stem the comes to an end this weekend longest streak since the 1988 short of the all-time mark of 28 "He's relieved before ... I tide-Tony Livorsi took the with back-to-hack doublehead­season. held by Dan Peltier and Tim thought it was a situation where loss-but to no avail. ers at Evansville followed by a 
But the Irish still has a very Hutson. he could come in and get a kid Tuesday matchup at respectable 13-10 record, espe­But the Cardinal rallied off out who struggles with a Against UCLA on Sunday, Northwestern. cially when considering the starter Pat Leahy in their half of breaking pitch, and Sinnes has Notre Dame fell behind 5-1 be­level of competition it has the third, scoring two runs and a very good one," he said. "He fore rallying in the eighth. Mee 
Men 

Crew heads to San Diego fresh from strong showing in Texas 
continued from page 28 

By JIM VOGL you are, the better you per­Spectators will get a chance members must share in the fi­Sports Writer form," explains Richards. to see the crew team in action nancing of a sport whose qual­
"I give our guys a lot of credit, 

The ND Crew team had an at the ND Crew Classic, taking ity equipment is expensive but 
though, they've had no let

impressive showing at the Heart place on the St. Joseph River in essential. The overall team ex­
downs." 

The Notre Dame Crew team's of Texas regatta in Austin over Mishawaka on Saturday, April penses for the season will The Irish met the Michigan
rigorous two-a-day workout spring break. First place 13. Teams attending the race amount to about $80,000. 
State team without top playersschedule over Easter Break ex­finishes included Women's include Michigan, Indiana, Nearly two thirds of the funding Dave DiLucia and Andyemplifies the strong character Novice 8, Men's Light 8, and Pittsburgh, Loyola and Grand is student generated. 

Zurcher. DiLucia was suffering

required of its members. Men's Light 4. The light four, Valley. some back pain,
from and 

As a club sport at Notre consisting of Bart Richards, Perhaps the most significant Zurcher was recovering from aDame, the crew team must ex­Dave Reeder, Bob Gregory, and The ultimate focus for ND contribution comes from indi­
sprained ankle. Without the

hibit extreme dedication and Mike Bertin, hopes to compete Crew every season is the vidual Crew members, who two starters, the Irish did notcommitment to be competitive in the non-Ivy League national Midwest Sprints in Madison, each pay about $600 a year for 
falter and swept the singles

with other Varsity programs championship-the Dad WI. While the Men's Light 8 the opportunity to row. matches from the Spartans.which they are forced to row Vail-May 9 in Philadelphia. hopes to win its division for the Biannual erg-a-thons and rent­
The Irish again only took one

against. The Men's Novice 8 took third straight year, the heavy­a-rower programs, in addition doubles match, but played ex­Rowing first requires team second and Women's Open 4, weights must set their goals to t-shirt sales at races, account ceptionally well all things con­unity; as President Bart Women's Light 4, .and Men's realistically lower. for about $14,000. 
sidered. The Irish face DukeRichards puts it, "Even in an 8-Open 4 all placed third. "Wisconsin, last year's na­and nationally ranked West, man shell, your boat is only as Thanks to a grant from the tional champions, boasts a pro­The Club's Board Members Virginia this weekend. 

l 
r fast as your slowest rower." As San Diego Crew Classic, Notre fessional coaching staff and a work hard to secure funding the time consuming and Dame will be sending a men's big budget that a Club team just through other venues, such as 
"To play this well when you

grueling workouts wear on, the boat to represent the team in can't compete with," said contributions from the Alumni 
leave two starters out says

dedicated rowers (currently 77) San Diego against the best Richards. Association, Student Activities, 
something about our team,"

begin to separate from those crews in California. The team, "The biggest rush comes from and Non-Varsity Athletics. 
said Bayliss. "We've only had

who "come out just to get in hoping to improve on a poor beating a varsity program, like 
one team beat us in singles,shape" (167 early in the fall). performance last year, will race we did last year against teams "A lot of responsibility is Arizona State, and we've been"Crew creates an attitude that on April 7. Parts of the contest like Cornell and Pitt," said Dave placed on students, to know in every match we've played. I makes you push yourself to do will be televised later on Reeder. you're in charge of $140,000 in think we're playing at the levelthe best. The more dedicated Superstation WTBS. To remain competitive, club _assets," said Richards. 

I expected." 

Wednesday, April 3, 1991 The Observer page 27 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
4:15 p.m. "Women & Health Research," Student Presentation. Hoom 116, O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by gender studies. 
4:30 p.m. Colloquium Series Spring 199l. "The Pianist as Critic," Edward Cone, professor emeritus, Princeton University. Hoom 124, Crowley Hall of Music. Sponsored by music department. 
7 p.m. Film: "Daughter Hite." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
7 p.m. Student Body Address by Student Government. Auditorium. Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Student Government. 
9 p.m. Film: "The American Friend." Annenberg Auditorium, Snitn Museum. 
Thursday 
11:30 a.m. Hospitality lunch to benefit Catholic Worker I louse of South Bend. Center of Social Concerns. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
LECTURES 
Noon. Lecture: "Abortion, Pornography and Surrogacy Arrangement," Professor Cass Sunstein, professor of Law, University of Chicago,· Law School Court Room, 220 Law Building. Sponsored by The Year of Women. 
3:30 p.m. Aerospaee and Mechanical Engineering Seminar: "Dynamic Fracture Analysis Using Strain Measurements," John Berger, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Boulder, Colorado. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "Rerum Novarurn!Gaudium et Spes: A Double Anniversary," Fr. J. Bryan Hehir, US Catholic Conference. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Sirloin Steak Sandwich Baked Scrod Cod Fettucini Alfmdo 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham Lemon Dill Cod Tacos 
ACROSS 29 Scot's cap 32 Turkish V.I.P. 
1 Rhyme scheme 33 Kind of oil 
5 Mall unit 34Wrath
10A sound of music 35 Hot dog's antics 
14 Boxer Max 39 Yet, in poesy 
15 Frankie of rock 40 Storehouse 
fame 41 Where Kerman 16 Yemeni seaport is 11 Varied 42 Jeanne d'Arc's 
background title: Abbr. 
20 --ceremony 43 Expose 
(be formal) 44 Gaseous fuel 21 Insipid 4& Make out 22 Malamutes, e.g. 47 Meat 
23 Nabokov's 48 Mountains of "-Fire" Morocco 25 Garment size 51 Lists 28 Turn; veer 54 Caucus site? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Alleviate 59 TV group &o Shade makers &1 Hill dwellers &2 Springe part &3 "Easy-it" 
DOWN 
1 TV network 2 Cries of 
contempt 3 Root vegetable 4 Pastoral 5 Tool or vehicle & Novices 7 Augury 8 Curtain holder 9 Business-letter 
abbr. 1 o Author of "The Luck of Roaring Camp" 11 Think-tank product 

BILL WATTERSON 
ACT\JP.\1.'1. N.OW 1\11\1 I-\~ GOOD SID£ l":l ~ 
LON.~~ 1'1-\'(5\C~l Bt.\1-\G, 
I fiNO I-IlM ll{r>.l MI.JCI\ Efo..S\E.R 'Ttl !Gt{OR£. 
~COOLDO~~ ~K~~ GOOO fo..S ~ fo..B'STAAa\01'\. lt-1 \\\'5 \MM~ Mfo..N\f£5\An~. 
THE FAR SIDE 

12 Grope 13 Anent 18 Sheepshank, 
lor one 19ln the arms of Morpheus 23 Kind of 
geometry 24 Old: Scot. 25 Leaves 26 Wading bird 27Titlefor 
Macbeth 
GARY LARSON 
28 Configuration 29Chaplet 30 Indo-European 31 Middle, in law 33 Rubberneck 3& Humble 37 Featured actor 38 Strewed trash 44 Oared galley 45 Took advantage 
of 
SPELUNKER 

48 Four·flushers 47 Celebrations 48 On the Ligurian 49Fed 50 Pixie-led 51 An Air. queen 
52--­contendere 53 Indefinite 
number 55 Rooter 5& "Quincy" actor 57 Novel drafts: 
Abbr. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


'f()J'R£ 1\\£ ~L'( P£125CN I KI-lO'« 't\\\05£ GOOD S\0£ 1'5 PRC*IE. 10 BM~E.SS . 


~~-.--~~-~------~--------------------~--------------------~----­
Sports
page 28 Wednesday, April 3, 1991 
Tennis teams dominate Big 10 foes over weekend 
Observer file photo 

Men down Gophers, Spartans 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team continued their winning ways, beating Minnesota and Michigan State this weekend. The Irish used strong singles performances to better their record to 14-9. 
The Irish first faced the 22nd-ranked Minnesota Gophers in the Eck Tennis Pavilion.The top four Irish singles players won easily; three of the four won in straight sets. 
"Our two, three, and four men played as well as they have all year," said coach Bob Bayliss. "We just took it to them." · 
The Gophers fought back, however, taking the five. and six matches by close margins, and winning the top two doubles matches. The number three team of Mark! Schmidt and Ryan Wenger took their doubles match to give the Irish the victory. 
"Mark played really well," explained Bayliss, "and Wenger cut off the balls at the net." 
Minnesota was the 15th of 22 matches that have been against top 25 opponents. The Irish have played against nine teams in the top ten. There have been no easy matches for the Irish all year. 
"We've taken some lumps, because there have been no confidence builders on our schedule," noted Bayliss. 
see MEN/page 26 

The Observer/John Clwer The ~~.ns la?rosse team could not hold off a second half charge from the VISiting Villanova Wildcats, losing 15-9. 
Flanagan was true All-American 
Former Irish running back replaced one of Horsemen 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Tales of Knute Rockne, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen and Notre Dame football, it is safe to say, will never die. 
The same cannot be said of the men who played the game. 
This mundane fact was com­memorated on March 31-Easter Sunday-the sixtieth anniversary of Knute Rockne's tragic death in a plane crash. It was more painfully driven home just days earlier by the death and burial of all'other Fighting Irish great-Christie Flanagan. 
Flanagan, who was from Port Arthur, Texas, played halfback and safety for Notre Dame from 1925-27, filling in for Horseman Jim Crowley. At the time he ended his three-year career, Flanagan had rambled his way to fourth place on the Notre Dame all-time rushing list, behind George Gipp, Crowley and Horseman Don Miller. 
After the 1988 campaign, Flanagan stood at twelfth on the all-time rushing list. His per carry average of 6.4 yards is second on the all-time list. 
"He was a stellar performer for three solid years," said Steve Boda, Notre Dame foot­ball records and statistics his­torian. "Year after year, Christie was the bulwark of the Irish offense." 
Flanagan was in the news as recently as 1988, when the Port Arthur News featured him in a preview of the Notre Dame­Miami game. In the story, Flanagan recounted his playing days under the legendary Rockne. 
In one practice, Flanagan, who had irked Rockne by asking for larger shoes, was designated as a tackling dummy for the varsity defense. Flanagan, however, impressed Rockne by bowling over the vaunted defense. 
At left halfback, the 6"0, 170 pound Flanagan proved to be a tremendous blocker, passer and punter. He was the team's leading passer in 1926, in addi­tion to leading the team in rushing in 1925, 1926 and 1927. 
An earlier version of the Rocket, Flanagan brutalized opposing defenses to score any way he could. In 1926, his sophomore season, Christie burned Beloit with a 90-yard 


Women clobber Michigan State 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

In the final home match of the season, the Notre Dame women's tennis team dominated Michigan State to cap off an impressive home slate in which they posted a 9-1 record at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish, in winning their fi(th match in a row. defeated the Spartans 9-1 in a match in which seven singles were played instead of the usual six. Melissa Harris, who moved from 44th to 42nd in the current singles poll, cruised to a 6-0, 6-1 victory at first singles over Alex Hilbert. Tracy Barton, the Irish's regular number-one singles player, was given the day off. Barton dropped to 35th in the latest poll. 
At second singles, Christy Faustmann, continuing her strong comeback from mono, which sidelined her for much of the season, won a close three-set match against Kelly McDonough. After splitting the first two sets 5-7, 7-5, Faustmann dominated the final set, serving up a 6-0 shutout. 
Lisa Tholen defeated Michele Hurrelbrink 6-4, 6-1 at third singles, and Terri Vitale followed with a 6-2, 6-2 triumph over Molly Poffenberger at the fourth slot. · 
Senior captain Kim Pacella, playing in her last home match, dropped a tight 0-6, 6-2, 6-0 contest at fifth singles to Alicia Leone. 
Sophomore Mark Schmidt returns serve in his doubles match against Minnesota this weekend. see WOMEN/page 25 
!! Poor third quarter performance dooms Irish in 15-9 home loss to Villanova 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team played the type of game it wanted to in three quarters of their Saturday matchup against Villanova. 
The Wildcats, however, took advantage of a worn-down Irish defense in the third quarter and erupted for six goals in cruising to a 15-9 win. 
The Irish (3-4) jumped to a 2­0 lead in the opening quarter, as juniors Brian Schirf and Mike Sullivan scored before the halfway point of the period. Villanova (3-3) then scored four straight before Schirf cut the Wildcat Ie.ad to 4-3 with an unassisted goal at the 6:45 
kickoff return for a touch­down-the only return for a score in his career. 
That same season, the mighty Texan scored the only touch­down in a storied 7-0 Notre Dame win over powerful Army in Yankee Stadium. The play-a third quarter, 63 yard run up the right side-was, in the sports jargon of the day, "a perfect play." 
For his exploits, Flanagan was named a first-team All­American in 1927 by the United Press (predecessor of the UPI) as well as a Newspaper Enterprise Association All­American. He was a second­team All-American in 1926. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Christie, at the suggestion of Rockne, entered coaching. Rockne placed him in assistant coaching jobs at Saint Louis University (1929) and Purdue (1930). He went to Navy from Purdue (1931-33) as backfield coach and ended his coaching career with Dusquesne in 1934-35. 
Flanagan served as the Southern Vice-President of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, beginning in 1954. Flanagan 
see FLANAGAN/page 21 
mark of the second quarter. Sullivan added another goal to tie the game after completing an offensive play that involved key passes from Irish defensemen Doug Murray and Chris Nelson, along with a final assist from freshman Steve Manley. 
The final minutes of the half saw Villanova go on a tear, scoring two goals at the end of half before nailing six straight to start the third quarter. Freshman midfielder Rick Bontatibus tallied three goals in that span, which amounted to a 12-4 lead with 4:41 left in the third. 
"I was pretty pleased with the first half," said Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan. "We 
.~ 
··....... 
didn't control the ball enough, though, and I think we got tired defensively because we played so much defense 'in the second quarter." 
As has been the case on a few occasions for the Irish this sea­son, ~was a game of inconsis­tency, with formidable first half play followed by suspect offen­sive performance. Besides wearing down physically, the Irish defense began to feel the effects psychologically. 
"When we had the opportuni­ties on offense to score and then lose the ball after only a few passes, it becomes frustrat­ing both mentally and physi­cally," said senior defenseman 
see VILLANOVA/page 24 

Former All-American Christie Flanagan is the twelth all time leading rusher in Notre Dame history. 







