VOL. XXIII NO. 102 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



IRAN 
KUWAIT 
~'t 
...... 0 
Kuwait City • '::-..\ 
Scud casualties The toll mounted from a missile hit 
Persian Gulf 


Perkins says perception is key in state of race relations 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH News Writer 
Perception is the key to the stat!l of race relations at this moment in United Stat!ls his­tory, said Jos!lph Perkins in his lectur!l last night titled "Race Relations in the 1990s." 
Perkins, a former Wh~te llous!l domp,stic policy analyst and fornwr Wall Street Journal Hditorialist. gave a relatively optimistic view of the race issue while expressing a hope that relations will become progres­sively better in the 90s. 
Th!l two most daunting prob­lems facing American blacks, according to Perkins, are the continued existence of poverty among all races and the widespread practice of "politics of victimization." Both of these issues affect how different races perceive themselves as well as how they see others. 
"The greatest emphasis of better relations is prosperity," said Perkins. "When America prospers there is a general feeling of euphoria among all races." 
Perkins attributes this sense of euphoria to the fact that when people are less concerned with their financial state, they are less likely to participate in "zero sum thinking," or the thought that one race's gain comes at the expense of an­other. 
Doctor seeks to make legal suicide machine 
lANSING, Mich. (AP)­An inventor whose "suicide ma­chine" launched a debate over assisted suicide told Michigan legislators Tuesday they should let doetors help terminally ill patients kill themselves. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian sharply criticized pending legislation to outlaw assisted suicide in Michigan. 
"You're in the dark ages ­you haven't solved anything" if the bill passes, Kevorkian told the Senate Family Law, Crimi­nal Law and Corrections Committee. 
"Michigan has the opportu­nity to lead the civilized world" by permitting and regulating assisted suicide, he said. 
The sponsor of the bill, Sen. FrHd Dillingham, said the law is necessary to prevent the state from becoming a suicide haven 
The committee delayed action on thH bill until next week. 
The bill would make it a felony to help someone commit suicide, punishable by up to four years in prison and a $2,000 fine. Forcing or coercing someone to commit suicide would be first-degree murder. 
On June 4, Kevorkian let Janet Adkins, 54, of Portland, Ore., use his "suicide machine" to inject herself with a fatal dose of drugs. Adkins suffered from Alzheimer's disease. 
Kevorkian was charged with first-degree murder, but the charges were dropped. Three weeks ago, Circuit Judge Alice Gilbert made permanent her in­junction barring him from helping anyone else commit sui­cide. 
A Loomis, Calif., man, Ber­tram Harper. 79, faces trial in Wayne County on charges of murder and conspiracy to commit murder in the death of his wife, Virginia, 69. 
Harper told police he pulled a plastic bag over her head after she took some sleeping pills Aug. 19 in a motel near Detroit Metropolitan Airport. 
The couple, who had seen news accounts of Adkins' sui­cide and believed assisted sui­cide was legal in Michigan, came to Detroit so Mrs. Harper, who had cancer, could kill herself. 
U.S. plans to rebuild Kuwait 
'Essential services' will be restored initially 
WASHINGTON (AP)-U.S. military officials intend to play a long-term role in restoring order to war-torn Kuwait, helping the government in health care, public safety and other areas, a document of contingency plans says. 
Military planners and Kuwaiti officials drew up the contin­gency plans in the months be­fore U.S. military forces moved into Kuwait, which has been occupied by Iraqi troops since Aug. 2. 
The 200-page document, is­sued by an Army civil affairs reserve unit, was obtained by Pacific News Service, which 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
provided a copy to The Associ­ated Press. Army officials here said they were unfamiliar with the document and could not comment on it. 
. Once Iraqi troops were out of the country, the document said, it would take about two weeks to restore "essential services," and about three months for "minimal services" to be put in place. The reconstruction phase was open-ended. 
"Throughout all phases of the recovery period, and into the reconstruction phase, addi­tional (U.S.) support will be provided to the established se­curity force," the paper said. 
Although the government of Kuwait will be in charge of the area once Kuwait is declared secure, the document said U.S. Army civil affairs people will help with food, water, health, sanitation, transportation and telecommunications. 
"If black America was pros­perous overall... much of the race problem that exists in America today would dissipate over time," he stated. 
Statistics he provided showed that over the past ten years there has been a dramatic in­crease in the number of middle class and affluent black house­holds. He stated that this year marks the first time that the black middle class outnumbers the black poor. 
In spite of these improve­ments, problems continue to arise from the practice of "politics of victimization" among Black leaders and the media in general. Perkins ex­plains this practice as the ten­dency for public figures to pre­sent Black America on a whole as a victim society resulting from inherent racism. 
He states that such a view distorts perspective and ignores both "white American's significant credit for taking down barriers" and "Black progress and success." 
By providing the public with a bleak image the black commu­nity rather than focusing on "important measures of progress," such politics cause resentment to increase and moral to decrease. 
Perkins does not see affirma­tive action or other such "special treatment" as a viable response to either poverty or "politics of victimization." In­stead he would like to see pro­grams that aid all of America's poor-"Black and white alike." 
"Poverty is not as much a ra­cial problem as a family prob­lem," said Perkins. He ex­plained that the best way to improve race relations is by preserving the family structure. 
Programs such as incentives to uphold two-parent families and to encourage a community effort to instill basic values in children are necessary, he said. Once strong family structures are reestablished, all other aspects of human decency and, consequently, race relations will fall into place. 
The lecture was held at 7:30 
p.m. in Cushing Auditorium and was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 

AP Photo
National security briefing 
President Bush meets in the Oval Office at the White House Monday to receive a national security brief­ing. From left are: Chairman of the joint Chiefs Gen. Colin Powell, Chief of Staff John Sununu, Def~nse Secretary Dick Cheney , Vice President Dan Quayle , Bush, Secretary of State James Baker, Nat1onal Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and his deputy Robert Gates. 
page 2 date
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Coverage of Gulf War: A Circus Remember the feeling as the Gulf War started, some 40 days ago, as we all crowded around our televisions to hear and see what was going on and Florentine Hoelker what might happen? There were a bunch of Assoc. News Editor us in the newsroom that night watching the networks with a combina­tion of anxiety, fear, disbelief, and a terrible burst of excitement. And during the whole first night or so I kept wondering, Where are the commercials? The role of the press in this war is an al­tered one, with not a little comment on all sides. The press feels itself somewhat cheated by the military because the military will not answer all its questions regarding troop movements and other future Allied strategies. The military feels the press is asking too much. Some protesters (members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group come to mind) feel the press has been lacking in its coverage because not everything is instantly revealed to an eager and blood-thirsty public. Yet all the while it bothers me that the press gets so excited by all this. War and death and destruction are all big news. Big news for the press is big business. Networks are fighting for news ratings, the newspapers relish being able to print really big headlines, and some women love to see their T.V. screens lit up by the face of Arthur Kent. Hooray for Hollywood. This isn't war. This is the press' bread and butter. It's a circus, an event, something to get excited about. Ratings are up. Newspaper sales are up. All the while men and women are dying by the dozens (hundreds? thousands?). two nations are being devastated, and God knows what the future will bring. But the important question is: Do you think Fred Francis gets paid for those descrete military book ads from his rear bookshelf? However, it's our job to report what's happening. I don't think there's much of an argument there. People want to and should know what occurs, and they should know as much as they can. They should know every­thing, eventually. This doesn't mean we the press, the great defenders of the first amendment, need to know everything immediately. Why do re­porters insist on asking what the generals plan to do? They honestly think they'll be told? Perhaps national security is just a ruse. Reporters cry censorship, expect us to take them seriously, then feel fit to include a two-minute update on the war between halves in a basketball game. It just doesn't mesh. Broadcasting live, and interviewing today's two-bit military analyst, the news people tell us how things are. As they switch reporters from New York to London to the Gulf. you can almost see the beaming of the anchors as they cover the big story in Saudi Arabia. It's a war. And it's news. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily  
Tuesday's Staff News Production Circulation Joe Moody Lisa Bourdon Bill O'Rourke Christine Stephan Kristin Lynch Matt Novak Accent Sports SystemsJohn Fischer Rolando de Aguiar Mark Sloan Paige Smoron Mike Murphy Ad Design Graphics Doug Bronsing Jake Frost Traci Hupp Mike Muldoon VIewpointKevin Hardman Brendan Regan Rich Riley Amy Eckert The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. ·  

H L 52 43 60 45 64 47 40 29 27 15 55 40 44 13 32 22 78 64 58 46 54 26 57 45 71 50 46 39 80 70 32 30 68 52 46 37 54 39 50 34 66 36 68 46 37 25 75 47 
30 26 
48 30 D.C. 50 38 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Teenagers killed by drug-backed gang 
•BOGOTA, Colombia -Gunmen killed nine teen­agers playing soccer on a Medellin street on Tuesday in the latest massacre blamed by police on drug-backed gangs. Medellin police said five heavily armed men in a moving automobile opened fire on the boys during a soccer game and then sped away. Six youths died at the scene and three later died of their wounds at a hospital, they said. The killings were the work of hired assassins who "have developed a death culture," Medellin city official Rodrigo Palacio said in an interview with the RCN radio network. On Sunday, gunmen killed five vendors at an outdoor market in Medellin, a cocaine trafficking center and Colombia's second largest city. On Monday, assailants burst into a Medellin high school classroom and fatally shot two teen-age boys in front of a teacher and 40 fellow students. 
NATIONAL 
Restrictive abortion bill fails in S.D. 
•PIERRE, S.D.-A bill proposing one of the most restrictive abortion laws in the nation was rejected Tuesday by the South Dakota Senate by a single vote. Anti-abortion forces stepped up lobbying and eroded 
OF INTEREST 
•Ushers 
are needed for all performances of Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory. Sign up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

•A 
lecture by Ellen Harris, professor at the Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technology, will be presented by the Department of Music at 4:30 p.m. in Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. The lecture is entitled "German and Italian Influences on Operatic librettos of G.F. Han­del." 

•sexuality 
and Alcohol: Myths and Truths will be presented by Mary Cecelia Roemer, M.A., C.A.C., a psychotherapist with specialties in working with women and with alcohol issues, today from 4:00-5:00 p.m., Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center. Co-sponsored by 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 26, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
.£!...
193.82 Million 200.50 T 0.85 S&P COMPOSITE 367.23 .. 1.61 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,887.87 .. 1.49 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD .f $2.50 to $ 359.50oz. SILVER t-6.8¢ to$ 3.576/oz. 

support for the measure, said its Senate sponsor, Richard Belatti. The House approved the bill overwhelmingly about two weeks ago. The measure failed in the Senate on a vote of 17-18 after nearly two hours of intense debate. Supporters suggested asking the Senate to reconsider, but Belatti said another vote will not be taken. Belatti, a Sioux Falls Republican, said senators had made up their minds on the issue and were unlikely to change their votes. "I think there's nothing to be gained by working it over again," he said. The measure would have allowed abortion only in cases of rape, incest, endangerment to the physical health of a pregnant woman or when a doctor determim~d that a fetus was severely mentally or physically handicapped. 
Derailed train spills chemicals 
•MOXAHALA, Ohio -Part of a train designated as carrying flammable chemicals derailed today, spilling an unidentified liquid, and some residents near the site were evacuated, a sheriff's official said. Perry County sheriff's Chief Deputy Dennis Carley said about 10 cars derailed on Conrail tracks about a half-mile north of this village in southeastern Ohio. Authorities at the site did not immediately know what liquid spilled, but Carley said signs on the train indicate it might have been carrying dichlorobutene, butanol, butyl alcohol and other flammable and corrosive materials. Carley said he did not know how many people were evacuated. Moxahala, a village of about 350 people, is about 50 miles southeast of Columbus. 
The Year of Women, the University Counseling Center, and The Office For Alcohol And Drug Education. 
•Fad 
Diets vs. Good Diets, Today students can learn to effectively plan and organize meals at a forum sponsored by The Year of Women Committee and Univer­sity Food Services. The "Fad Diets vs. Good Diets" pre­sentation will feature actual food demonstrations by Chef Denis, and participants will receive recipes and handouts. The forum will be held from 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room of South Dining Hall. 

•seniors 
interested in a year of volunteer work, Sr. Mary Budde, '90 of the Franciscans will be on Campus to­day to discuss the options available to you. Library con­course 10 a.m.-noon and esc 1-5 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1633: The Italian astronomer Galileo arrived in Rome for trial before the Inquisition. 

• 
In 1920: The League of Nations recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. 

• 
In 1935: A jury in Flemington, N.J., found Bruno Richard Hauptmann guilty of first-degree murder in the kidnap-death of the 


infant son of aviator Charles Lindbergh. The verdict carried an au­tomatic death sentence. 
• 
In 1945: During World War II, the Soviets captured Budapest, Hungary, from the Germans after a 50-day siege. 

• 
In 1982: The UAW traded wage and benefit concessions for job security in a new contract with Ford. 


---~­
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Music professor to give 
HPC discusses freshmen elections 
a faculty organ recital 
Special to The Observer 
Craig Cramer. associate pro­fessor of music at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, will give a faeulty organ recital at 8 p.m. on Sunday, March 3 at Sacred Heart Chureh, on the Univer­sity's campus. Th{l eoncert, which will feature an all Bach program, is free and open to the public. 
In addition to his faculty ap­pointment, Cramer also serves as organist at tht~ First English Lutheran Church in Mishawaka. He has performed in thirty states and Canada and has appeared as featured recitalist for conventions of the American Gulld of Organists. 
Next summer Cramer will make his first European con-

By CARRIE DWYER 
cert appearance on an eight 
News Writer
city tour of Germany. Cramer holds degrees from Two Student Senate amend­Westminster Choir College and 
ments concerning freshman
the Eastman School of Music, class elections and the forma­where he earned a doctorate in tion of an ethics committee toorgan performance. The East­oversee students organizationsman School also awarded him were discussed by Hall Presi­the prestigious performer's dents' Council (HPC) last night. 
certificate in organ. 
Because of inconsistencies inHe has studied with Russell the freshman class representa­Saunders, William Hays, James tive elections between the hallsDrake, and Andre Marchal and in past years, an amendmenthas been named the winner of was passed in the Senate andseveral competitions, including by HPC to require that the
the Alexander McCurdy 
freshman class government be
Competition in Organ 
composed of an elected repre­Performance at Westminster sentative from each residenceChoir College and the National 
hall
Competition at First 
These representatives would
Presbyterian Church in Fort be elected by October 1, and
Wayne, Indiana. 

Saint Mary's Peace Group meets 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Peace Sup­port Group agreed that even though an end to the war may be in sight, it is important not to let voiees die after the Gulf War is over. 
Mary Turgi, assistant director of Campus Ministry, said, "I think we need to start talking about where do we go from here. After break, will it be all over militarily? (But) what has been unleashed by this?" 
The group discussed the need to keep people's awareness be­cause there will be far-reaching consequences, including com­pensation for the damage. "The bill hasn't come in yet on this war," Turgi said. 
The press has been inundated with war news, while the United States' problems such as increased homelessness and class differentiation have taken a back seat, according to Ann Clark, professor of philosophy. "Bush is going to have to come back to problems here," she said. "There is a pattern of avoiding tending to our own problems by thinking we have special insights into other peo­ple's lives (and getting involved in them)." 
Ideas for future Peace Sup­port Group meetings include speakers who know about the political, economic, and ecolog­ical outcomes of the war. Ros­alind Clark, professor of English, has suggested to the English department that there be an "evening with E.E. Cum­mings" presenting anti-w"ar po­etry tapes that haven't been shown. Clark elected to give a synopsis of why they haven't. 
To provide continuity and depth to the group, Turgi sug­gested that they read a common book throughout the semester to come to a better understanding of the situation. The group was encouraged to read journals and alternative viewpoints. 
Ann Clark described a current Women's Peace Study project as 

·"a general statement on war, not specifically on the Middle East War." Rosalind Clark said that the goal is to get people who agree with the statement to sign it and possibly give it to Resident Assistants to suggest that students read it. Men are included in the project. 
the Freshman Class Council tivities. would then elect among In related HPC business: themselves four officers by •HPC will be accepting nomi­November 1. nations for their annual Irish 
Each class president would be Clover Award next week. The an active voting member of the award is open to any student, Student Senate and would re­faculty or staff member of the main in office until April 1. University who has given out­
standing service to the students 
Also passed by the Senate of Notre Dame. was an amendment that called for the creation of an ethics •It was announced that any committee whose purpose hall wishing to hold its formal would be to "revfew and ad­at an establishment supplied by dress any allegation of misuse Victory Bar will have to pay of student funds or misconduct approximately an additional of student organizations and $400 to compensate for the their members." minimal amount of insurance 
that the bar holds. 
The committee would act as a sort .of Judicial Board that Victory Bar is currently the would oversee all undergradu­supplier for both the Greek ate student organizations that Orthodox Church and Gene are recognized by Student Ac-Van's. 
Croatia's defense minister prosecuted for 'rebellion' 
tected by dozens of security 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) guards. -Croatia's defense minister The army ordered Croatian and seven others were formally authorities and army troops to charged by a military prosecu­arrest Spegelj in January and tor Tuesday with planning an again this month, but the armed rebellion against Yu­Croatians defied the order and goslavia. the troops failed to carry out 
An army statement said the arrest. Martin Spegelj and the other His seven co-defendants were Croatians, including two active arrested last month after the army officers, had master­broadcast of a secret army film minded the plan by importing purporting to show Spegelj and arms to create an independent the others plotting to kill army Croatian army. The charges officers and their families. carry a maximum sentence of The film also accused them of life imprisonment. illegally importing arms from 
Spegelj has repeatedly denied Hungary. The Hungarian gov­wrongdoing. He is hiding out, ernment has confirmed the sale supposedly in the Croatian of about 10,000 submachine capital of Zagreb, and pro-guns to a Croatian trading firm. 
r 

The Center for Civil 8 Ruman Rights and The Notre Dame Law Review 
present 



A Symposium On 
The Rights of Ethnic Minorities 
Friday, March 1 from 9 -5:00 p.m. Saturday, March 2 from 9:30 -4:00 p.m. 
Law School Court Room, Room220 
----~-------~ 
page 4 
The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1991 
U.S. attempts to stop terrorism lacks funds 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Gov­ernment efforts to develop high-technology defenses against terrorist attacks have been starved for money, con­gressional analysts said Tues­day. 
Officials of the Federal Avia­tion Administration said, meanwhile, their new thermal neutron analysis or TNA detec­tor has improved its perfor­mance over the past six months, finding smaller amounts of explosives with fewer false alarms. 
The machine, now being used to check luggage at three inter­national airports, has been criticized in the past as not be­ing up to the task of finding a bomb in a mass of innocent suitcases and packages. 
Anthony Fainberg of the con­gressional Office of Technology Assessment told the Senate Government Operations Com­mittee that slender financing for the inter-agency group co­tory designed to respond to chemical or biological attacks by terrorists, was delayed for a year, he said. 
Committee members said that the threat of terrorism is likely to persist long after the Persian gulf war ends. 
One witness, Dr. Stanley Wiener, professor of medicine at the University of Illinois in Chicago, said there is no way to detect a terrorist attack using biological weapons while it is going on. 
Wiener called for research to develop "a rapid and specific detector" to warn of such at­tacks. 
"Such studies are under way but they are not funded to the extent they should be, given the capacity of these weapons to cause mass casualties," Wiener said. He added, "And I'm not talking thousands, I'm talking millions." 
Speaking for the technology assessment office, Fainberg said the thermal neutron ana­
ordinating anti-terrorism re­lyzer is flawed and the FAA search has severely hampered should not buy more than the its ability to obtain worthwhile six already purchased. results. The analyzers, he said, pro­
Fainberg said the group's duce too many false alarms 
available annual funds fell from when tuned to detect miniature $10 million in 1986 to $2 mil­bombs of the type that brought lion last year. down Pan Am Flight 103 over 
One project, a mobile labora-Scotland three years ago. 
a 
Joins with the Obsetwr in hoping for the quick and safe return of our friends 
and loved ones in the 
THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Persian Gulf. 


Congressional briefing 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, surrounded by congressional leaders, talks to reporters after a briefing at the Pentagon Monday. 



-·I:he 0~~-~­
-~ JLD~:~v.t:J;__ 
is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Design Manager: 
The Observer is seeking an eager and creative person to oversee the daily design of Observer advertisements. This person must be good humored, responsible and be reasonably competent with Macintosh computers. 
Art Director: 
The Observer is seeking an artistic person with a penchant for graphics to direct the Observer's graphics department. This position is open to people with either illustrative abilities or graphics skills. 
Anyone interested in these positions should submit a two page personal statement by 5 pm, Friday, March 1 to Kelley Tuthill. Any questions should be directed to either Kelley or Lisa at 239-7471. 
is accepting applications for the following positions on our Saint Mary's staff: 
Assistant Editor News Editor Accent Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor Office Manager Advertising Representative 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement to Emily Willett by 5 pm, Thursday, February 28, 1991 at the Haggar College Center Desk. For more information call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 


....--~~------~----------~-----~-~ ---------------------~~----~-------~---, 
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Students enabled to use debit cards to buy drinks 
LEWISBURG, Pa. (AP) ­Plastic is replacing metal in Pepsi machines at Bucknell University. No, not in the cans, in the coins. 
Since December, students have been able to use plastic debit cards instead of change to purchase soft drinks from the Pepsi machines on campus. The cards are the same ones the university has used for copying machines for two years. 
Pepsi-Cola Company spokeswoman Leigh Curtin said Tuesday Bucknell is the only test site for the plastic cards. She said the company "wasn't anxious" to release early test results, but Eric Schmidt, pur­chasing officer for the univer­sity in Lewisburg, said sales were up. He wouldn't say how much. 
Machines that dispense and read the cards are made by Technology Products Inc. in Harleysville, Pa. Company Pres­ident Nelson DeShong said the technology can be integrated into just about any machine that uses coins. 
"In the future, for students all over the country, the ID card will not only let them buy food in the cafeteria, but also use all vending machines and use the card for entrance to their dormitories," DeShong said. 
DeShong's company makes its money by selling the dispensers and readers. Pepsi and the university make money through sales. 
"What we commonly see is that when we put one of these readers on a copier, the use of the copier goes up substantially because that machine is more convenient," DeShong said. 
The cards, with magnetic strips on the back, are sold in $1 or $5 denominations. Using a card, a soda costs 50 cents, the same as when coins are used. Card users save money on copying, paying only a nickel a copy, as opposed to 10 cents for coin users. 
Digital readouts on the soda and copying machines tell users how much credit is left. The same cards can be used on soda machines and copiers. 
Schmidt said 60 percent to 80 percent of the students have them. 
"The bad thing is it's not like spending money, but it really is each time you use it," said Sharon Friedman, a Bucknell junior in psychology and Span­ish from Roslyn, N.Y. 
The increased sales generate more money for the school's scholarship fund. Schmidt said vending sales came to $50,000 last year and that the copying machine card helps cut down on library damage. 
"Now, with the cards, they don't have to tear a page out of a book," he said. 
The technology is also being used at the U.S. Mints in Philadelphia, Denver and San Francisco, which make coins. They prohibit employees from bringing coins to work. 

AP Photo

Thanks America 
An exiled Kuwaiti waves the American flag from his car window in Cairo in the pre-dawn hours Tuesday after Iraq announced it would withdraw from Kuwait. Hundreds of Kuwaitis celebrated in the streets. 
House rejects S&L bailout bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House Banking Committee re­jected a bill Tuesday that would have authorized another $20 billion in taxpayer money to continue the bailout of failed savings and loans institutions over the next seven months. 
The measure was defeated on a 31-19 vote after being amended several times during a 10-hour committee session. 
The Senate, meanwhile, began debating its own version, favored by the Bush administra­tion, that would authorize $30 billion for the bailout agency, the Resolution Trust Corp. 
Both bills merely would set spending ceilings. The money would have to be provided through separate appropria­tions bills. 
Officials of the corporation say it will run out of money this week unless Congress provides additional funds. The fate of the legislation was unclear after the House committee acted, but the House could still take up the Senate version if it passes the Senate. 
At the start of the committee's work session, the House bill would have provided the same $30 billion as in the Senate measure. But among several amendments adopted was one to provide $20 billion im­mediately and authorize the additional $10 billion only if President Bush sends Congress a plan for paying for the bailout in future years without worsening the budget deficit. 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady had said in a letter to congressional leaders that any­thing less than $30 billion would result in "a start-and­stop cleanup process that pro­duces further delays, substan­tial additional costs to taxpay­ers and confusion and fear in the minds of depositors." 



ATTENTION STUDENTS--LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off Campus Sign-ups: February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. On Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in respective dorms. 
"Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Casimir-Ford Street neighborhood 
This project needs your support! 
QUESTIONS??? Please call: 
Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheibel x1739 
---------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 27, 1991

page 6 The Observer 
Czech Parliament ends state control over economy 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -Parliament on Tuesday ap­proved landmark legislation to end 40 years of state control over the economy with a vote to hand over all nationalized in­dustry to private investors. 
The law is the most important in the government's ambitious program to turn the country from a Communist-controlled economy to a market-oriented system. 
"It is an all-out attempt to get rid of ... state ownership of industry and the only way to solve this enormous problem," Deputy Finance Minister Dusan Triska, architect of the legisla­tion, said in an interview Tues­day. 
All 4,500 industrial enter­prises valued at $130 billion should be available to domestic or foreign private investors by year's end, he said. 
Deputies present in the 300­seat legislature voted 157 in fa­vor, 24 against of the vote, and 12 abstained, the official news agency CTK said. 
Finance Minister Vaclav Klaus, chief architect of eco­nomic reform, called the draft law an "historic document" when he presented it to parlia­ment last Thursday. 
Czechoslovakia was among Europe's most advanced indus­trial countries before World War II, with military, textile and engineering industries re­spected worldwide. 
Four decades of Communist rule after 1948 brought its economy to the verge of col­lapse, leaving the nation's first post-Communist government last year with outdated heavy industry and a polluted envi­ronment. 
The country's economic re­form shifted into high gear last month, with price deregulation and auctions of small shops that gave the population the first taste of post-war capitalism. 
Klaus, in an interview pub­lished Tuesday, expressed op­timism about the reform, de­spite inevitable j.umps in infla­tion and unemployment. 
"Everything points to the fact we can manage it," he told the weekly Reflex. 
The new privatization law permits the sale of the country's most healthy industrial ventures to foreign investors in an effort to reap the capital needed to overhaul other out­dated industries. 
But Triska suggested no more than several dozen large Czechoslovak enterprises would merit the attention of large foreign investors. 
Companies illegally national­ized by Communists after 1948 will be returned to original owners or their descendants. Shares in the bulk of the re­maining enterprises will be made available to other Czechoslovaks through an in­tricate system of government­issued coupons. 
"It will be a financial trans­action of dimensions unprece­dented in this country," Triska said, adding that millions of people will be issued the bonds in a gigantic computer-run op­eration in late 1991 or early 1992. 
11
THE NAnONAL COLLEGE 
NEWSPAPER 
Joins wl.h the Obsen.er in hoping 
for the quick and safe return ofour 
loved one<; in the Persian Gulf. 


Announces AGreat New Travel Program. 


Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Express" Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines. 
Just look at the map and pick the place youtllike to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days ofthe day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. 

In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa· tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may ever be again. 
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL

Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

Complete terms and conditions of this rravel ofer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this ofer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines' performance. C> 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer page7 


4:00 pm-6:00 pm The Year ofWomen Committee Faculty Dining Room, & University Food Services South Dining Hall 
L•arn to •ff•cUv•Jt plat~~ ••d ortanlz:• IIJOIIIr me-als. Aet•al f-"1 ......,.str-at...s will b• conduohd b'Y Ch•f Denis. ParUotp•b vt11 •• provt~e4 r•ot,.s. handouts~ m••l pl.11rts •nd tr•at•d to actual sampl•s. 
:Hes6urgli Program 
in Pu6fic Service 
EDUCATION REFORM: 
Problems of School Choice and Funding Inequities 
Panelists: • Mary K. Boyd-Principal, St. Paul (MN) Open School 
• 
Donald Ern~ -Executive Assistant for Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of the Governor, State of Indiana 

·Luis Fraga-Associate Professor of Government, University of Notre Dame 

• 
Thomas Vitullo-Martin -Education Consultant, New York City 


February 27, 1991 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 7:30pm 
Second Annual Public Policy Colloquium 
Bush administration says recession will be short 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An overwhelming majority of the nation's top economic forecast­ers share the Bush administra­tion's expectation that the cur­rent recession will be shorter and much less severe than the average downturn since World War II. 
The National Association of Business Economists(NABE) survey showed on Thesday that 49 of the 54 forecasters partic­ipating in the poll, or 91 per­cent, believe the recession will last nine months or less ­meaning it should be over by mid-year. 
Both their length and severity projections were just a bit less rosy than the White House's. 
The eight previous recessions since 1945 have averaged 11 months in length during which the economy fell an average 2.5 percent. The consensus of the NABE forecasters project the drop in the GNP this time to be just 1.0 percent. The poll was conducted in the first two weeks of February. 
"Compared to historic norms, that is a fairly short recession," Richard Rippe, NABE president and chief economist for Dean Witter Reynolds in New York, told a news conference. "In terms of severity, the recession is expected to be fairly shallow compared to historic norms." 
A recession generally is de­fined as at least two consecu­tive quarterly declines in the gross national product -the nation's total output of goods and services. The Commerce Department said the GNP fell at an annual rate of 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1990. 
President Bush based his fis­cal 1991 budget on assumptions that the recession would be mild and last just two quarters, with economic growth resuming in the April-June period. The NABE forecasters were slightly less optimistic, projecting a tiny contraction in that quarter but moderate growth thereafter. 
In other economic news Tuesday: 
•The Commerce Department said orders to U.S. factories for durable goods declined 0. 7 percent in January after ad­vancing 2.7 percent a month earlier. Orders for durable goods -items ranging from trucks to turbines that are ex­pected to last more than three years -have bounced up and down for more than a year. 
•The department also said the 
U.S. merchandise trade deficit narrowed to $108.68 billion in 1990, the smallest gap in seven years and down 5.4 percent from the imbalance posted in 1989. Both exports and imports set records, although the import growth was slower than exports. 
. The NABE forecast projected the economy will decline 0.2 percent in 1991 on a year-over­year basis. That includes con­tractions of 1.6 percent in the current quarter and 0.3 percent from April through June before posting moderate growth rates of 1.9 percent in the third quar­ter and 2.5 percent in the fourth. 
The forecast said the econ­omy will advance 2.5 percent in 1992 while the Bush forecast calls for 3 percent growth each year from 1992 through 1996. 
The NABE forecast projected an unemployment rate of 6.6 percent this year, dropping to 
6.2 percent in 1992. The jobless rate was 5.5 percent in 1990. 
The forecast also projected after-tax corporate earnings to decline 3.8 percent after edging up just 0.1 percent in 1990. And, Rippe said, it called for "weak results in such cyclical sensitive sectors such as hous­ing, automobiles and industrial production." 
On the other hand, Hippe noted "a few bright spots:" 
•Inflation 
as measured by the Consumer Price Index is ex­pected to slow to 4.6 percent this year on a year-over-year basis and to 4.0 percent in 1992. The CPI rose 6.1 percent during 1990. 

•Interest 
rates for both short­term Treasury bills and long­term Treasury bonds will decline slightly between now and the end of June, but then rise throughout the balance of 1991 and during 1992. 

•And 
the U.S. merchandise trade balance will drop to $95 billion this year from $101.1 billion in 1990. 


But, the forecasters said, the nation's other deficit, the fed­eral budget gap, will jump to $300 billion this fiscal year, up from $220.4 billion in fiscal 1990, before falling to $291 billion in the fiscal year starting next October. 


page 8 The Observer 

AP Photo
Light lunch 
President Bush has the floor as he jokes with members of his cabinet prior to a working lunch at the White House Monday. Secretary of State James Baker, left and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney 
Investigation nabs crack dealers 
ATLANTA (AP) -A three­month crack cocaine investiga­tion in Georgia, Florida and South Carolina resulted in 13,593 arrests and the seizure of $25.5 million worth of drugs, officials from the three states announced Tuesday. 
"This historic 'crack attack' may well be the largest coordi­nated drug bust in the history of law enforcement," Georgia Gov. Zell Miller said at a news conference. 
The investigation dealt "a devastating blow to drug pro­duction, distribution, smuggling and trafficking facilities from Key west to Atlanta and to Myrtle Beach," Miller said. 
Authorities said 272 sheriffs in the three states participated in the arrests and drug seizures. They also seized 649 vehicles, four boats, one plane, $2,368,169 in cash, and 1,200 firearms and miscellaneous weapons, totaling $7,603,000 in value. 
In a four-day drug sweep conducted last week, officers used traffic stops to search ve­hicles for drugs along highways from Miami to the North Carolina border. 
The effort will not curtail the crack cocaine epidemic entirely, but "it will make a dent," said Bud Cody, executive director of the Georgia Sheriffs Associa­tion. 
The operation experienced a few setbacks. In one instance, the Clayton County Narcotics Unit broke in the door of an elderly couple's home south of Atlanta on Friday because an officer typed the wrong address on a search warrant. 
"We're going to repair the door," said Clayton Police Lt. Doug Jewett. "And we're going to apologize." 
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 

School offers course to improve parenting 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -Pa­tricia McTyer was tired of see­ing her second-grader's after­noons slip away in front of the television. Jannie Dixon wanted to help her 7 -year-old grand­daughter learn to share. 
When their elementary school offered a special course on bet­ter parenting, both women rushed to enroll. The $100 bonus school officials offered to parents completing the 11­week session just added zest to the venture, they said. 
"I read what they were offer­ing and I said, 'This is what I want,' and then, 'Wow, it's great we're going to be paid for going to get help,"' McTyer said. 
Response to the pilot pro­gram, which pays parents to get more involved in urban classrooms, is encouraging, organizers say. 
"In a very real way in urban America, this is about saving lives really and I believe that we need to be creative," said Paul Brekke-Miesner, program manager for Oakland schools' comprehensive health and safety plan. 
But some question the wis­dom of paying parents to take an interest in their child's edu­cation. 
"I personally do not feel that a parent should be paid to get involved with their children," said Mae Monroe, president of the Oakland Council PTA 
Eleven parents signed up and nine finished the program re­cently completed at Webster Elementary School, which has 898 students. A second session starts this spring at another elementary school. 
In addition to the $100 incen­tive, participants who met spe­cific goals, such as enrolling in junior. college, received an extra $50. 


You can't &e a drag tonif!htl (and you can't take one e1therl) Love, Your Biggest Fan 

All those interested in 




OFF CAMPOS PRESDIEfiT 
or 
STODEfiT BODY SEriATE 
positions 
Must attend an informational meeting on Wednesday, February 27th at 6:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune 
--~ ~-­
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Gorbachev lashes back at Yeltsin and other 'radicals' 
MOSCOW (API -President Mikhail Gorbachev on Tuesday lashed back at Boris Yeltsin and other radicals who are de­manding his resignation, saying they were trying to oust him through street demonstrations, "and they might succeed." 
Warning that would lead to civil war, Gorbachev distanced himself from the forces of radi­cal reform and aligned himself closer to Communist Party tra­ditionalists in a major speech setting the tone before a na­tional referendum March 17 to hold the Soviet Union together. 
The anti-Communist opposi­tion has staged three huge ral­lies in Moscow since the Krem­lin's Jan. 13 military crack­down in Lithuania, with in­creasing calls for Gorbachev's resignation as he has turned toward hard-liners. 
Yeltsin, his political rival and president of the Russian feder­ation, went on national televi­sion Feb. 12, accused Gor­bachev of sacrificing pere­stroika for personal power and demanded his immediate resig­nation. 
The speech by Gorbachev, to Byelorussian intellectuals in Minsk during his first domestic trip in a half-year, was also his first public comment about Yeltsin's demand. 
"The democrats are striving for power," Gorbachev said, re­ferring to Yeltsin and other re­formers. "And since their initial plan for a lightning capture of 

Friday March 1, 7:00 p. m. and 9:30 p. m. 
Cushing Auditorium 

All donations to benefit the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center are graciously accepted 

-
-

power by legal means through 
the Congress and Supreme So­
viet did not work, they decided 
to use what some analysts de­
fine today as neo-Bolshevist 
tactics. 

"You know what I mean. It's 
the transition of the struggle to 
the streets: organizing demon­
strations, rallies, strikes and 
hunger strikes," Gorbachev 
said. 

Gorbachev said his political opponents were waging "psychological warfare" against him. 
"In the absence of positive programs, they address the people -the working class ­over the heads of the parlia­ment, with an appeal to dis­solve this and that, and force the president to resign, and the situation is tense, strained," he said. "And they might succeed. And that's what they calculate on." 
"We categorically reject any attempts to repeat the forcible capture of power which would almost inevitably be followed by a civil war," Gorbachev said. 
Gorbachev said he has been hampered the past 18 months "by the most intense power struggle." 
In an apparent reference to demands at recent demonstra­tions for the national parlia­ment to resign, he accused his opponents of trying to disman­tle the Soviet Union's "first democratically elected organ." 
In fact, the 2,250-member Congress has hundreds of deputies selected by party-con­trolled organizations. In addi­tion, its members have given Gorbachev increased powers in recent months so that he rules virtually by decree. 
He also accused opposition leaders of waging the campaign against him "to improve their dropping political rating," but it is Gorbachev's popularity that is falling. A poll conducted in 11 Russian cities by the All­Union Center for Public Opinion since Yeltsin's TV appearance found 62 percent of the re­spondents felt negatively about Gorbachev and only 24 percent positively. 
-

NOW LEASING:­
LAFA VETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
-

-
Voters will be asked March 
17 in a nationwide referendum 
whether they want to preserve 
the Soviet Union "as a renewed 
federation of equal, sovereign 
republics in which human 
rights and freedoms of any na­
tionality (people of all ethnic 
groups) will be fully guaran­
teed?" 
The radical reformers have 
said they will try to use the vote 
as a referendum on Gor­
bachev's six years in power. 
Gorbachev said reformers 
such as Yeltsin and Moscow 
Mayor Gavriil Popov want to 
dismember the 15 republics 
making up the Soviet Union. 
"There is no need to wonder 
that these 'democrats' enter a 
political alliance with sepa­
ratists and nationalist groups," 
Gorbachev said. "They have 
one common goal: to weaken 
and, if possible, dismantle the 
union." 
He also suggested the radi­
cals are directed from abroad, 
saying the "slogans that in­
spired the active forces of pere­
stroika became devoid of sub­
stance, altered, rephrased and 
used to disguise long-term 
plans, in some cases hatched in 
alien research centers and 
alien heads, and consequently 
we do not need them." 
"Recently the so-called democrats have embarked on a frankly anti-Communist road, calling for proclaiming the Communist Party of the Soviet Union a criminal organization and staging a trial," he said. "This supercilious mocking hides the desire to lead the people astray .... If Boris Yeltsin and Gavriil Popov proclaim themselves democrats, millions of Communists have by far more reasons to call themselves such." 
Earlier Thesday, as he visited the Minsk Tractor Works, Gor­bachev was asked about Yeltsin's demand, and he replied that that his rival's ob­jectives "are at odds with the goals of perestroika," according to Tass. 
"It would be very simple if ev­erything boiled down to our personal relationship. What is at issue is two political lines and associated strategic goals," the news agency quoted him as saying. "That's where the difference is." 
Gorbachev also got an earful of complaints about the econ­omy from the factory's workers. 
The evening TV news pro­gram "Vremya" showed assembly line workers amid shiny red tractors arguing about the economic crisis with the fur-hatted Gorbachev, who wagged his finger back at them. 
"I don't even have boots!" said one worker. 
"There is no food, no goods," a woman told Gorbachev. "I have a booklet of shopping coupons and there is not a sin­gle coupon that has been clipped out. I can't buy any­thing after work. The shelves are bare!" 
Gorbachev also said he would spend two of three days in Byelorussia visiting areas con­taminated by the April 1986 Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. 
.About one-fifth of Byelorus­sia, where more than 2 million people live, was contaminated. Politicians and residents allege bureaucratic bungling, medical incompetence, corruption and waste in the cleanup. 
Gorbachev's last domestic trip was Aug. 17, when he spoke to soldiers in the Black Sea port of Odessa. 
-



OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 10 Wdenasday, February 27, 1991 
Bush vows to press on with war against Iraq 


__.. 

AP Photo
Scud devastates American barracks 
An American soldier walks through the rubble of an American military barracks Tuesday morning after an Iraqi Scud missile destroyed the building Monday, killing 27 American soldiers and wounding 98. 
U.S. tanks close in on 'Guard' 
Thinking ofdoing ayear of service? Howabout doingit for alifetime? Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385  ALUMNIIll SENIOR:z: 1­STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 1991  


(AP}-In three days, driving hard to the northeast in num­berless phalanxes of M1A1 tanks and personnel carriers, tens of thousands of U.S. and British troops had advanced from the Saudi-Iraqi border to the desert precincts of the Re­publican Guard, the. elite Iraqi army units holding down the Kuwaiti-Iraqi border region. 
The powerful VII Corps task force includes the U.S. 1st and 3rd Armored Divisions, the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment, the 1st Infantry Division, and the British 1st Armored Division, which includes the famed "Desert Rats" brigade of World War II fame. 
American military officials said VII Corps elements had engaged some Guard units. They said a Guard mechanized­infantry division had been severely damage. But they gave few details and no location for the desert fighting. 
Kelly asserted that the Guard divisions' future was bleak. 
"If they elect to stay in their defensive positions, and get close up on American combat forces, they're in deep, deep trouble," Kelly said. 
Neil MacFarquhar, an AP correspondent with the VII Corps, said some of the Guard tanks were coming out of their protective revetments, but pi­lots of surveillance planes saw no coherent plan in their movements. An intelligence offi­cer told him they apparently "are trying to conduct some kind of strategic withdrawal." 
Pentagon officials said some 
U.S. units were at the Euphrates River, which runs northwest into the Iraqi heart­land, "poised to prevent any withdrawal to Baghdad" ­some 150 miles to the north­west. 
But it was clear the "noose" had not been completely closed. No Desert Storm units had penetrated far enough east to cut off the route straight north from the battle zone to the southern Iraqi city of Basra. Any Iraqi units retreating along that route would be subject to air attack, however. 
"If they try to go back to Basra, the Air Force will kill them," one Pentagon official said. 
The Pentagon reported Tues­day that more than 2,000 of the estimated 4,200 Iraqi tanks in Kuwait and southern Iraq had been destroyed in six weeks of air and now ground war. 
WASHINGTON (AP} -Presi­dent Bush grimly vowed to press the war against Iraq "with undiminished intensity" Tuesday as the Pentagon said Saddam Hussein's shattered army was "in full retreat." Bush said the troops were leaving only in hopes of regrouping to fight again another day. 
"Saddam is not interested in peace," Bush declared. 
"He is trying to save the rem­nants of power and control in the Middle East by every means possible," Bush said. "And here, too, Saddam Hussein will fail." 
Pounded by air and ground attacks, Saddam's forces were on the run in occupied Kuwait and threatened by more than 100,000 U.S. and allied troops in southern Iraq. A small band of U.S. and Saudi special forces probed Kuwait City as an allied force of thousands waited to enter the Kuwaiti capital. 
"Tomorrow, when the sun comes up, the question in my mind is whether the enemy is going to be there," Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly said at the Pen­tagon. He said Saddam's pow­erful Republican Guard had not performed any better in battle than other units. 
"The Iraqi army is in full re­treat, although there is still fighting going on," Kelly said. 
Declaring that the allies were advancing faster than expected, Bush proclaimed, "The libera­tion of Kuwait is close at hand." 
After an afternoon update on the war, Bush said, "We are not only on schedule, we're ahead of schedule. No commander in chief has ever been so proud of America's men and women in uniform." 
In a radio speech, Saddam said he had ordered his troops to withdraw. Bush dismissed that in a terse and unyielding statement in the Rose Garden, saying, "He is trying to claim . victory in the midst of a rout." 
Vice President Dan Quayle was at Bush's side during the White House statement and later made clear that the United States wants to render Saddam powerless. "Saddam and his military machine are simply incompatible with a lasting and just peace," Quayle said in a speech at McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey. 
Bush's tough stand was en­dorsed by allies. Britain, France, Egypt, Germany, Italy and Japan all said withdrawal alone was not enough and that Iraq must comply with all U.N. resolutions imposed after Iraq's Aug. 2 takeover of Kuwait. 
Aside from demanding im­mediate and unconditional withdrawal, the measures call for quick release of detained foreigners, raise the possibility of war reparations and urge nations to collect evidence of human rights abuses, presum­ably for use in war crimes tri­als. 
On Capitol Hill, Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, "We're very pleased with the progress to date but ... it is not yet over so it will continue until it is over." 
Increasingly, Bush has ap­peared determined to see the war through on his unyielding terms rather than embrace diplomatic solutions suggested by Moscow. In fact, his condi­tions have been made tougher in recent days, with demands for Saddam himself to bow to 
U.S. terms. The clear goal is to deny Saddam a face-saving way out of the war. 
Bush said Saddam had not renounced his claim on Kuwait nor accepted all the mandates of the U.N. "Nor is there any evidence of remorse for Iraq's aggression or any indication that Saddam is prepared to ac­cept the responsibility for the awful consequences of that ag­gression," Bush said. 
He said Saddam also had not complied With demands for the release of prisoners of war and other detained persons or to put "an end to the pathological destruction of Kuwait. 
"The coalition will therefore continue to prosecute the war with undiminished intensity," he declared. 
Bush demanded that Sad­dam's forces -in both Kuwait and the Iraq war zone -lay down their arms if they want to be spared. He said the allies would not shoot at unarmed soldiers in retreat but "we have no choice but to consider re­treating combat units as a threat, and respond accord­ingly." 
-------~
-------~-­
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page11 
Surge of patriotism causes Putting out oil well fires in the gulf 
Oil well firefighters face the enormous task of extinguishing hundreds of oil well 
fires in Kuwait. Special tech and equipment are used for the 
flag shortage in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The surge of American patriotism accompanying the Persian Gulf War has caused a flag shortage in Congress, where purchases by lawmakers on behalf of con­stituents have soared. 
Through Feb. 25, congres­sional workers had flown 23,532 flags over the Capitol, compared to 18,313 for the same period last year, accord­Ing to William Raines, spokesman for the Capitol ar­chitect's office. 
And more would be flown, ex­cept that manufacturers are having trouble keeping up with demand. Just last Friday, 1,100 were flown in a single day after a new supply arrived, Raines said. 
One of the many perquisites of elected office is that House members and senators can order flags run up the flagpoles atop the Capitol. The lawmak­ers or the constituents buy the flags, but the service that makes the flags special is free. 
Usually, people can choose from a variety of sizes and ei­ther cotton or nylon material ranging in price from about $8 to $15. But despite weekly de­liveries, the shelves are being cleared these days. 
Raymond Colley, deputy clerk of the House, whose office orders the flags, said three dif­ferent companies produce the flags sold in the House sta­tionery store. He said those companies are dealing with big increases in demand not just in Congress but across the coun­try. 
"We sold last year for the whole year about 160,000 flags. Today, it would be 30 percent above that level" if the pace continues, he said. 
Raines said three flagpoles on the west side of the Capitol roof are being kept busy, but the force can be expanded if neces­sary. 
Preparing the site 

Pits are dug by bulldozers to hold water. Pumps spray huge volumes of water into area of fire to keep it cool, enabling firefighters to get close to the wellhead. Water does not extinguish the fire. 
Cranes, attached to a device called an Athey Wagon, drag hot metal debris from the well. If not removed, debris could reignite the fire. 
Blowing out the fire 
A bulldozer powers the Athey Wagon and backs into the well area. Explosives mounted on the wagon are detonated directly over the wellhead. The fire is extinguished when the explosion mes all the oxygen around the fire. ~II'-~" 
Saddam promises a 'greater victory' in the future 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -not disclose the time of the visit widely expressed fears in mor was attacking Iraq's 48th led by the United States and its President Saddam Hussein said or the location of the 1st Army Baghdad that the allies are Division while it prepared for allies." He described his foes as Tuesday he was pulling all his Corps. Earlier, Iraq said the more interested in destroying withdrawal, but did not give a "the criminals and the traitors." troops out of Kuwait immedi­corps was in western Kuwait. Iraq than recapturing Kuwait. location. Kuwait had been a part of ately and promised his people a "The withdrawal has started Air raid sirens sounded in Spokesmen for the allied Iraq "legally, constitutionally "greater victory" in the future. and today it will be completed," bomb-battered Baghdad re­command claimed Iraqi units and practically" from Aug. 8, 
His military commanders said Saddam said in his Baghdad peatedly Tuesday. Iraqis hoping were not withdrawing, but re­when Iraq annexed it, until the allies continued their at­radio broadcast. for peace heard the thump of treating under fire, pausing to Iraq's withdrawal started tacks. He did not mention U.N. Se­explosives even as Saddam assume defensive positions and Monday night, Saddam de­
Baghdad radio said Tuesday curity Council resolutions allied spoke. Dense, dark fog laced fight. clared. night that Saddam visited the leaders insist he accept. Their with dust and smoke from The Iraqi military spokesman He added that the emirate commanders of the 1st Army provisions include payment of burning oil refineries or wells said: "Our forces will continue was a part of Iraq that had Corps to inspect preparations reparations to Kuwait and re­shrouded the city. their organized, orderly and been taken away in the past. for defending "great Iraq's se­nunciation of claims to the emi­In a communique Tuesday disciplined withdrawal in spite Iraqis won a moral victory by curity and sovereignty." rate, which Iraq invaded Aug. night, the Iraqi military said of what is happening, including calling attention to the Pales­
The broadcast, which identi­2. allied ground forces and air­during the coming night hours." tinian cause "and the issues of fied Saddam as a field marshal, President Bush and leaders of craft were attacking the with­Saddam said Iraq was forced poverty versus greed, atheism president and commander-in­other coalition countries said drawing troops. The military to withdraw from Kuwait by versus faith, justice versus in­chief of the armed forces, did the war would continue, feeding spokesman also said allied ar-"the aggression of 30 countries, justice," he said. 
Allies concentrate on stopping the Republican Guard 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. "destroying them in place," U.S. desert west of Kuwait in an ef­the Guard -are bent on mounting "some kind of and allied troops deep inside officials said Tuesday. fort to execute Gen. Colin Pow­preventing Saddam's top troops attack." Iraq are drawing a noose An assault force of more than ell's order to "cut off and kill" from escaping as they continue The U.S. forces are at the around Saddam Hussein's 100,000 soldiers from the U.S. the Guard, the heart of the Iraqi to be pummeled from the air, Euphrates River, "poised to vaunted Republican Guard, Army's VII Corps swept hun­military machine, officials said. the official said. prevent any withdrawal to preventing a retreat and dreds of miles through the "There have been tank en­At a Pentagon briefing, Kelly Baghdad," a senior Pentagon 
gagements with the Republican described the Guard troops as official said. "This is it; we have Guard; in each case, the result being in "deep, deep trouble," them checkmated." has been a very positive one for whether they remained in their Although allied forces hadn't us," said Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, bunkers or rose up to confront encircled the Guard on the operations director for the Joint U.S. and allied forces closing in ground, he contended that al­Chiefs of Staff. on them. lied air power would prevent 
The eight divisions of the Their communications have the Iraqis from seeking refuge 150,000-member Guard remain been so severely disrupted that in the key military city of Basra, for the most part in bunkers, "they are having difficulty which is closer than Baghdad. but have clashed with U.S. sensing from which direction "If they try to go back to forces in "sporadic" engage­they might be attacked," said Basra, the Air Force will kill ments that have cost them at Rear Adm. Mike McConnell, the them," he said. "If they go to least 30 Soviet-made T-72 Joint Staff's director of intelli­the other side of the Tigris, the tanks, said a senior Pentagon gence. bridges are down. If they try to official, who spoke on condition While Kelly said the fighting flee north to Baghdad, they'll of anonymity. against the Guard "hasn't been run into the U.S. Army and if 
Allied forces -some of whom any stiffer than fighting against they move south into Kuwait, have reached the Euphrates anybody else," he warned the they run into coalition forces River in an effort to pressure force was still capable of and the U.S. Marines." 
l.M.!Ek410N • St:YCJII~I.I.E~ • 1'1\lfl\(iiii\Y • M/\1.1: '1'111\II.ANII•li!NTRAI. AJIItlt:M" IWI'IIIII.Il' ldtMIIIA • IKJMINICAN Hlii'UIU.U.: • ANTUiiiA • IIIIMINit:A • WmNAIJA • MUNTSI-:IU~AT lOS'I'\ Kll'l\ • ST f.IICIA • S'l' VINL'I{N'I'ff:Ht~NAIJINE<.; • IIIJIWNIII• SIU I.ANI\A • tiiiiNEA liENIN • SI~NI~Iii\L • TAN7.ANIA • SIEKIM LEONI! • UUTSWANA • WIATI!MAI.A • lUll( KINA ,.-1\SO l'lltiiiATI • Nltl'AI.• SUIMN •IIWANIIA · IAMAICA • ZAIRB • Mlt:IUJNI~SIA ·llEI'IIIII.ICtU: 1'1\I.Atl 
loAIUJN • MALAWIGOINGTO(;O • SI\'A7.11.ANII
IJ:~I't'\IH ·KEN\' A MAUIU'I'ANIA. 111\1'1'1 I,IIJN~A • I.IIU:IUA MAHSIII\1.1. JSI.ANIIS IIONIIIIHI\!';•NIGIW I~CUAUOI( • TONI:/\ I'IIII.II'I'INI•:S • ltl,ll IU(I.IZE • III\IUI1\IIOS 
~IIIIUX.:t.:O • YEMEN I'AI'UA NI!W fitiiNI•:A 
""ll.tlfi.ICJNISI.ANI>GS.LOBAUIIWIA'I'I•TIIVAI.II
l.ltANA•TlJNISIA WI!STEUN SAMtiA 'T h.I'M'SINHVIS I'AHA(:IIA\' • MAI.I lu'\HON • m:L11.1:: TIIAII.ANU • NI~I'AI. IUmiN • St·:NRC;AL S't'. KI"ITS/Nt-:YIS l.llti~IUA • 1\~NVA IXJMINil'A • Jlljl 
BARTENDER 

· Pt!ftCC! Corpa/Campue Con\pect · · Overuee Undergraduate lnternahlp• · ·Short-term Servlce Experience· 
Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the 
·Gain Firathand Expo11ure to 11 Developing Nation· · Obtnln Significant Project Experience· · flelp l'ertct! Corp• Vuluntecn llclp the People of the lloet Country· 
INFORMATION DESK 
Inrormatlon Meeting: Monday, March 4 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
7:00 P.M. Center ror Social Concerns 
*Deadline for applications Is March 29* 

~--------~~~--~------------------­


Viewpoint
page 12 Wednesday, Febrauary 27, 1991 

EDITORIAL 
Students must remain 
active in ethnic issues 
Notre Dame's Vice-President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara has given students the opportunity to test just how much pull they have with the Administration. 
The efforts of the committee which prepared the February Board of Trustees Report titled, "The Challenge of Diversity: Racial Relations at Notre Dame," and the coalition Students United For Respect have made racial issues pressing concerns on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. By scheduling weekly meetin~s with Board of Trustees report committee to discuss the Issues they presented, O'Hara is evidencing a commitment to the students' interests voiced through both groups' endeavors. 
These students have not only the opportunity, but also the responsibility, to the commumty to set an agenda for these meetings which accurately reflects the students' needs. Student leaders in all aspects of campus life routinely promise this type of leadership to their constituents. Some take the initiative to follow their rhetoric with appropriate action. Others prove reluctant to make waves. The students asked to attend O'Hara's discussions of racial issues cannot afford to be passive leaders. 
Without the committee's efforts, the weeki>; discussions will accomplish nothing, but the responsibility to effect change is not only in their hands. Support from the student body is also vital. If Notre Dame is to be a truly diverse campus, all of the students must be willing to commit to a change in the racial environment. 
Students have been offered a rare commodity: a direct line to Notre Dame's Administration through their own peers. The students attending the weeki>: meetings provide a valuable resource which must be utilized. They can report directly to the student body by initiating their own open forums to discuss the issues they raise with O'Hara, for example. If they prove themselves willing to take these steps, the student body must respond in kind by remaining attentive to racial concerns. 
The Administration's unwillin~ess to solicit student input has been a source of frustratiOn for this community for years. For once, student voices are being actively sought. If the students take the Administration up on its offer, the community will learn a valuable lesson: either everyone will become more informed about racial issues, or they will know, once and for all, that their input plays only a superficial role in the formulation of policies. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Winter months provide best time for JPW 
Dear Editor: 

The article "JPW should not take place during winter months" (The Observer, Feb. 19), claims that JPW should take place during a spring month. The support for the claim comes from the fact that this year's JPW was ruined by the snowstorm that occurred. The underlying warrant of the claim is that all JPWs will be ruined because they always oc­cur at a time when a lot of snow and other types of bad weather occur. The main problem with this argument is that there is not evidence to prove that the claim of the underlying warrants are true. 
The author does not cite suf-
Observer coverage of SMC election lacks respect 
Dear Editor: 

As one of the election 
commissioners at Saint Mary's 
and as one of the candidates in 
the election, I have to comment 
on the coverage of the election. 
The coverage was both insulting 
and disrespectful to the entire 
Saint Mary's community. · First of all, in the Notre Dame student body elections, all of the candidates were interviewed. ·For our student body elections, The Observer was present only at the debates. While the debates are important, they are only part of the entire campaign. Since the committee that decides which ticket The Observer should endorse is composed primarily of Notre Dame students, some more in­depth investigative reporting was necessary before a fully informed endorsement could have been made. Interviews with both tickets would have contributed greatly to a more 
ficient evidence to prove her claim. She only says that this year's JPW was ruined. Also, it was only ruined for her because her parents would not travel in this weather. She does not say if any past JPWs were ruined by bad weather. I agree that bad weather has probably occurred in the past but not to the degree of this past weekend. During the other years, when there was less snow, the bad weather did not ruin JPW. 
She goes on to say that some of her fellow classmates also had a bad time. "Some" could mean anywhere from 3 to 300, but it would still not be a majority of the junior class. Most juniors had a good time in 
complete picture of the ideas each ticket represented. I question how students who do not even attend Saint Mary's can know enough about the issues on this campus to properly endorse the best candidate. 
Secondly, every candidate on every ticket in the Notre Dame class election was listed on the front page of The Observer. In sharp contrast to the treatment of the Notre Dame tickets received, the Saint Mary's tickets were never listed prior to the election. Even after the election was over, only the name of the presidential candidate on each ticket was listed. The elections were for class officers, not merely for class president, so, in order to be accurate, The Observer should have listed all of the members of the winning tickets. If The Observer truly 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
spite of the bad weather. 

One thing the author did not even consider was the fact that the winter months might be the best time to have JPW. All the other weekends might be full of other activities. Also, this is the best time of the year for work­ing people, like parents, to re­ceive time off from work so that they can drive out and visit their son or daughter at college. More evidence must be presented for this article to be a good argument against having JPW in the winter. 
Peter Sweeney Zahm Hall 
Feb.21,1991 
appreciated the dedication and work each candidate put into her campaign, all of the members on all of the tickets would have been given the recognition they deserved. 
If The Observer wants to serve the Saint Mary's community, as it proclaims on the front page every day, it could start by changing its haphazard approach to reporting Saint Mary's events. In the case of elections, the lack of thorough reporting led to ill­informed opinions on the part of The Observer. The events at Saint Mary's are important to the students here, including myself. If The Observer is not going to cover our events with the accuracy and respect they deserve, I would rather it not cover them at all. 
Melissa Petersmarck Holy Cross Hall 
Feb 22,1991 
GOOD AFTERNOON, FWPL.8. AT TH& PR&5&NT TIM&, I'M 
MAJOR 15.''8UZZ'' f(}(j(j, 
ANt? THIS IS TH/3 se0TOR 
J PRESS POOl-BUS... W&'R£ GOING 7D TI<Y 7D CATOf 

UPN/7H A CAV UNIT, ANI? 
HCPE ARE 7Ht GROUNP RUt£5: 
NO a.J&5170NSA80UTfiL.TIONS, 
CA5{}/Jl.TI&S, MOPAU3 OR 
FIJS/7JONS l \ 
UM ... HOO 
ABOUTTH& 
LATRIN/3~ 
rr'Seea.t 
A tONG 
R/1?&. 
Nt6ATIVC.. 7H& bN/3MYU/aJW toV6 70CATOf l/3WITHOUR PANTS f)(X.{JN I 

'There is nothing more exhilarating than to be shot at without result.' 
Winston Churchill 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
THE WJ:lJ?... toEND ALL WN?.5 (CotmNVED) 
-
Viewpoint
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
The best reasons to support the U.S. troops in the Gulf are also very good reasons to be a pacifist. 
Whether or not they are suf­ficient reasons to be a pacifist is another question, I admit. But they are reason enough to think carefully about the morality of war. Wherever each of us comes out, they are reason enough to ask what it really means to "support the troops." 
I am assuming that we all agree on this much: Whatever we think about he morality of warfare in general, or this war in particular, or the Bush Administration's policies for waging this war, the troops should not be victims of our debate. 
That is what happened in Vietnam. The draftees who had already suffered as much as any U.S. citizen from a contro­versial war came home to suf­fer yet more. And we were all the losers. U.S. society split bit­terly. Those who had sent friends and family members into the war felt betrayed. The anti-war movement needlessly alienated many of the people it wanted to convince. 
So we all have an interest in the quality of our debate. Those who believe that the way to de­fend the sacredness of life is to resist the war (or all war) must respect the human dignity of those who are fighting it. Those who believe that the troops are truly defending democratic freedoms must allow dissenters to practice those freedoms. 
Even Desert Storm support­ers, then, will want dissenters to support the troops. Lest that support erode in the coming months, they might actually want dissenters to have solid reasons for doing so. 
If the war is politically wrong, the troops are among its victims. Even though the military is supposed to be "all­volunteer," many lower-class and minority soldiers joined be­cause they had few other choices for social and economic advancement. In any case, all soldiers are victims if the poli­cies shaping the war effort are fundamentally misguided. 

Also, if the war is morally wrong, the troops are still for­givable. Or, in non-religious terms, they are still human be­ings whose dignity is worthy of respect. Both pacifist and just war teaching insist that indi­viduals must take some per­sonal responsibility for their participation in warfare. But on Christian terms, God's love is the basis for morality, not vice­versa. In other words, immoral action does not erode God's fundamental offer of life and forgiveness for all human beings. 
Societies may not be so for­giving. But ours has agreed to accord even the worst criminals a basic level of human dignity. Death row inmates, for exam­ple, are not subject to degrad­ing torture. 
So why be pacifist? 
Because both of these reasons for supporting the troops apply also to our so-called enemies. That the Iraqi people are victims of a brutal regime hardly needs elaboration. President Bush is quite willing to say the same. Further, the military policy of striking hard­est at Saddam Hussein's Republican Guards assumes that most of the other troops who occupy Kuwait are Iraqi conscripts who are less than enthusiastic. 
But, what about those who really are loyal to him? What about Saddam Hussein himself? Here the second reason kicks in. However distasteful a figure he may be, he is still a human being. And as such, he retains human dignity and worth. 
It may strain the imagination to think of circumstances in which he would ask God's for­giveness, so I will leave that aside. The Bush Administration, however, has imagined the pos­sibility of putting him on trial as a war criminal. Would con­victing him warrant the human degradation of torture? Ironic though it may be, even those who might call for a death penalty would surely say no. He remains a human being, not an animal, not the personification of evil. 
If the same reasons for sup­porting the U.S. troops are also reasons to respect the humanity of the "enemy," then we are well on the way to a case for pacifism. Pacifism does not deny, as Jesus did not deny, that we may have enemies. But it refuses to consider the boundaries that define enemies as final. It may search for non­lethal ways to resist enemies. But it refuses to act in such a way that those boundaries be­come final. Killing the enemy would do just that. 
Of course, these may not be reasons enough to convince ev­eryone to become a pacifist. We live in a tragic world. Even if we do not degrade criminals, someone may need to seek them out and arrest them. To many the alternative appears to be allowing them to victimize the innocent. 
Ultimately, my own reason for being a pacifist is a further one. In Jesus Christ, God has loved humanity even when we made ourselves into enemies of God. To respond to God's love is to follow Jesus Christ in offering the same love to our en.emies. To follow Jesus Christ includes hearing his call to bear the same cross on which his en­emies nailed him. To hear such a call is possible because of his resurrection. It promises that God's nonviolent love is already beginning to achieve the only kind of victory over injustice that can be final. 
But I have no illusions that all other members of society have heard or responded to Jesus Christ. In fact, while I might wish that all other Christians would hear and respond to him this way, I have no illusions about that either. Many Christians have found ample cause in the world's tragedy to argue for going to war, under certain circumstances, to pro­tect the innocent. 
On one thing, however, we pacifists must insist. Others should not have illusions either. If the world's tragedy is the best (perhaps only) argument for going to war, none should speak of war in ways that obscure the deep tragedy of war, even under justifiable circumstances. 
Whatever else may be said about this war, from whatever position, certain things must not go unsaid. For example: 
-This is not a struggle be­tween good and evil, as President Bush has claimed. At the very most, it is a struggle between police and criminals, human police and human crim­inals. It is not a crusade or a holy war. 
-No war is a football game or a video arcade. Weapons do not kill tanks and planes and speed boats. Weapons kill peo­ple in tanks and people in planes and people in speed boats. 
-B-52's do not "attrit" Iraqi fortifications. They terrorize, maim, dismember, destroy and otherwise turn human bodies ­the bodies of parents, spouses, children ~ into something stomach-wrenching. 
-"Collateral damage" is just as deadly for its civilian victims as are direct terrorist strikes against noncombatant civilians. 
So if someone wants to argue that all this is worth it, they had better be brutally honest about what "all this" is. And they had better have extremely good reasons for the worth of "it." That is what the traditional just war teaching of the Catholic Church insists, by the way. We pacifists are stubbornly skeptical about all reasons for war. But our own pacifism also commits us to a lot of listening. 
Euphemisms, cheerleading, crusading and flag waving will not do, however. The fact that the war is no longer just a pos­sibility, but a reality, changes none of this. If we all needed better reasons and fewer slo­gans on Jan. 14, we still need them now. War is no substitute for honest language, clear thinking and convincing justifi­cations. 
For God's sake, let none of us lose our sense that even a "justifiable" war is a deep hu­man tragedy. For truth and sanity's sake, let's be honest. And for the sake of troops and civilians on both sides, let us keep debating. 
Gerald W. Schlabach Off-campus 
Feb.18,1991 

Ultrasound presentation is not pro-life propaganda 

Dear Editor: 
I just returned this evening from the ultrasound presenta­tion given by Shari Richard at Saint Mary's. I can honestly admit that this was one of the most educational two hours of my last four years here at Notre Dame. Shari Richard is an ultrasonographer who testified before Senate and House sub­committees in March, 1990, against the "Freedom of Choice Bill," which, if enacted, would have legalized abortion on demand with no state restrictions. 
The key piece of Ms. Richard's testimony was to be her video "Ultrasound: A Window to the Womb." Utilizing the latest in ultrasound technology, this video depicts the development of the fetus within the mother from seven weeks to birth. 
As part of Ms. Richard's pre­sentation, we were able to view this video. I think that after seeing this video any observer would have to admit that the new ultrasound technology is truly amazing. The fetus-one must even say baby-at seven weeks is already recognizable as a tiny human being. One can see and hear the heart beating. 
By 10 weeks the babies are jumping, sucking their thumbs and moving vigorously. This is the age when most babies are aborted. 
Ultrasound technology con­sists of high frequency sound waves, so it is impossible that it stimulates the baby's move­ment. The movements that one can view are the normal move­ments of the child in the uterus. 
It may be suggested, however, that these appear to be the simple reflex movements of an "obligate parasite," as one of the pro-choice male doctors testified before the House sub­committee. And yet the move­ments of the tiny creature in the uterus are clearly the same squirming movements that we have all seen our brothers and sisters, or, perhaps, even our own infants, make. The only difference is that these babies can be legally destroyed. 
I earlier stated that the ultra­sound video was part of Ms. Richard's intended presentation before the House and Senate sub-committees. Unfortunately, Ms. Richard was prevented from showing the videotape to the House sub-committee and was only able to show five min­utes of it before the Senate members told her that her time was up. 
Incidentally, when Ms. Richard appeared before the Senate, she was the only pro-life witness. The pro-choice side was allowed six witnesses and thus allotted six times as much testimony. It seems amazing that our representatives were unwilling to witness the newest ultrasound technology in such important deliberations. But this case of "censorship" (the word use by Representative James Sensenbrenner whenever Ms. Richard's was unable to air her video) is not at all uncom­mon. In fact, it goes on in abor­tion clinics and hospitals throughout the country. Ms. Richard's personal experience as an ultrasonographer includes being prevented from showing ultrasound pictures of their unborn babies to women considering abortion. 
She cited the advice given in the February, 1986, issue of "OB.Gyn News:" "Sonography can make induced abortion safer, but care must be taken so that its psychological impact is not negative," Dr. Sally Faith Dorfman said at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association. 
Later in the article Dr. Dorfman emphasizes that "seeing a blown-up, moving im­age of the embryo she is carry­ing can be distressing to a woman who is about to undergo an abortion." She also suggests that these same images invariably have negative effects on staff members as well. 
Up to this point in Ms. Richard's presentation, one might have entertained the pos­sibility that all of this was slanted pro-life propaganda. Perhaps the pro-life movement has brain-washed Ms. Richard into supporting their cause-a cause which appears to many people to be yet another exam­ple of the patriarchy oppressing women by making them have unwanted children. But the last part of Ms. Richard's presentation destroyed this idea. 
Ms. Richard admitted that she herself has had two abortions encouraged by abortion clinic counselors who told her that the growing organism inside of her was "a blob of tissue." It was only after her training as an ultrasonographer that she realized that the "blobs" she aborted were tiny human beings. 
This last point, the reality of censorship, is one which I chal­lenge all men and women to take seriously. How "free" is a choice if a doctor withholds the truth about fetal development from a woman? Is a woman liberated if her access to in­formation is manipulated by her doctor? 
These are the questions that are raised in my mind by Ms. Richard's presentation. And I believe that any reflective per­son who takes the abortion is­sue seriously should be con­cerned about them too. 
I am not asking anyone to immediately join the pro-life cause. I am asking, challenging everyone to see Shari Richard's videotape. Become educated about the issue. And then de­cide. Anyone who is willing to accept this challenge is wel­come to contact me or Maria Rhomberg, president of ND/SMC Right to Ufe, for a screening of "Ultra-sound: A Window to the Womb" and is promised that they won't be confronted with propaganda but with the facts. 
Lisa M. Gabany Lewis Hall 
Feb.21,1991 


·­ 
Accent  
page 14  Wednesday, February 27, 1991  

Good 'fortune' abounds for Theatre Grottesco 
Underrated rocker triumphs again with latest, 'Struck by Lightning' 

By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Grottesco. 

No, it's not a die-hard Valley Girl's reaction upon fmding the remnants of a four-year-old taco salad under a sofa cushion. It's actually an Italian word that means unusual, comic, outrageous, and larger than life. And that's exactly what "Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory" is. 
The Theatre Grottesco, pre­sented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre, will be performing the world premiere of its comedy at Washington Hall starting tonight at 8:10 p.m. and run­ning through Sunday, March 3. 
"Fortune" is a touching story of a small family-owned cookie factory on the brink of bankruptcy. A destitute novelist applies for the job of message writer for the fortune cookies, is hired and turns the fortunes of the company completely around (pun intended). As the company enjoys the meteoric rise in popularity it is also faced with the struggle against greed, pride and avarice. An expressionistic melodrama un­folds as the strain of success pulls the company apart. 
The company's on-stage style has been described as "wonderful madness," and it hits hard with humor and whimsy to expose the foibles of 

By MIKE BYRNE 
Accent Writer 

Few artists have been as praised by critics, and as shunned by the public, as Graham Parker. In 1976, when the pop audience was gaga for Peter Frampton and Boston, when "progressive" New York rockers were piercing themselves amid the punk revolution, Parker and his British band The Humour debuted with "Howlin Wind." 
The album blended intelligible, intelligent, and uncompromising lyrics with driving rock, seasoned with blues and reggae, and Parker's unique nasal snarl. And later that year, Parker outdid himself with "Heat Treatment," ten songs filled with starkly honest sentiments of anger, desire, defiance, and anguish. 
His next two albums, "Stick It To Me" and "The Parkerilla," (a live set), had their moments, but it was Parker's next album, "Squeezing Out Sparks," that solidified Parker's reputation as a master songwriter and musician. Most Parker aficionados, the few that there are, would likely call the album his best. And, while Rolling Stone is by no means scripture, it lists the album (along with "Howlin Wind") among its top 100 albums of all time. 
Highlights of the album include "Local Girls," which some may recall from the early days of MTV, "Passion Is No Ordinary Word" (my second favorite song ever), and "Protection," in which Parker impressively manages to rhyme the words "sweaty" and "confetti:" "Your love let­ters/Are confetti/1 ripped them up/My hands are sweaty." 
The album came out on the Arista label, whom Parker signed with after contractual disputes with the Mercury label. 
But with both labels, Parker suffered from lousy promotion and from execs who pressured Parker to make his music more accessible. Parker refused to compromise, and from 1980-_..._ 1985 came out with four good albums that maintained his trademark bluntness: "The Up Escalator" (with a cameo by Bruce Springsteen). "Another Grey Area" (featuring "Temporary Beauty," that video in which Graham walks among some lovely ice sculptures, carrying a blowtorch), "The Real Macaw," and "Steady Nervelil." 
Meanwhile, out came the retrospective albums "Pourin' It All Out" and "Look Back in Anger"-featuring a blistering cover of the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back." (Well, you may not actually get blisters when you listen to it, but it's still fantastic). 
But it was 1988's "The Mona Lisa's Sister," on the RCA label, that reaffirmed Parker's status as a songwriter to be reckoned with. The songs are pared contemporary America. Like other pieces by Theatre Grottesco, it is a tightly woven piece of theatre-dance where the actors define both space and time without the aid of a set. Theatrical imagery is cre­ated through the marriage of movement and the spoken word. 
One critic suggests that the members of Theatre Grottesco "can fmd more eloquence in a yawn than other actors can in a well-turned phrase." Company member Paul Herwig says, "The remarkable thing about 'Fortune' is its ability to make people laugh while challenging them with the kind of theatre rarely seen in America." 
"Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory" is the first play in what Theatre Grottesco calls "An American Trilogy." The ensemble is an international group formed in Paris, France, nearly a decade ago. In 1987, the company moved to Detroit. Grottesco's original plays are powered by stunning visual im­agery and polished physicality. 
Besides the performances, Theatre Grottesco will present a free, public lecture-demon­stration of its theatrical style, Monday, February 25, at Washington Hall at 4:15 p.m. The week-long residency will also include visits to the acting classes of Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
down, led by acoustic guitar and with little evidence of production. Parker's still-biting voice is in the forefront, focusing the listener's attention on the lyrics. 
Parker refers to such diverse artistic figures as pop author Joe McGinnis, rad 16th-century artist Hieronymus Bosch, beat author Jack Kerouac, and singer Sam Cooke-the album features a terrific cover of his "Cupid." Since then, the prolific Parker has issued another live album, and 1989's "Human Soul," which explores the real and surreal sides of one of Parker's favorite subjects. 
If you're at all interested in this remarkable artist, I 
recommend "Sparks," "Treatment," "Mona Lisa's," and the retrospectives as his most accessible inroads. Most are available on CD, and most are cheap since nobody buys them. 
Parker's new album, Struck by Lightning, ranks as one of his best, but it's not the kind of album that's love at first listen. It is unquestionably his most folksy album. Appropriately, it features Garth Hudson, former keyboardist of The Band, on accordion and Hammond organ. 
The opening track, "She Wants So Many Things," calmly rocks back and forth, while Parker talks with a guy whose manipulative, golddigging girlfriend has his "soul on a plate." The tension between music and 

The visit of Theatre Grottesco The Rise and Fall of a Small door or in advance at the to Michiana is sponsored by Fortune Cookie Factory" will LaFortune Student Center Box Arts Midwest members and run from tonight to Saturday, Office. Student and senior citi­
friends in partnership with the March 2, at 8:10 p.m. and zen discounts are available for National Endowment for the Sunday, march 3, at 3:10p.m. tonight's, Thursday's, and Arts and special assistance 
Sunday's performances for $5. from Hudson's. Tickets are $7 for reserved For MasterCard and Visa Performances of "Fortune: seats and are available at the orders, call (219) 239-8128. 
lyrics continues in "They Murdered the Clown." The carnival sounds of the Hammond organ and the easily­rocking acoustic guitar are married with talk of evildoing amid the innocent, escapist exterior of the circus. 
The next five songs are even more folksy than the first two; blues harmonica and violin are featured in all of them. Parker proceeds from the warming feeling of watching his young daughter at play ("The Kid with the Butterfly Net"), to remembrance of the first time ever he saw his wife's face ("And It Shook Me" ), to the profound pleasure of touching and being touched by 
the one he loves ("Wrapping Paper"). 
Graham has a legitimate shot at a hit song with "A Brand New Book," if any bozo on FM radio would be gutsy enough to play it. I called the deejay at WAOR the other day to request this very song by Graham Parker, and the deejay said, "Grand Funk?" It is a jejune world we live in when a deejay has heard of Grand Funk Railroad, and not Graham Parker. 
Anyway, Parker has his hands on a terrific synthesizer riff, and he knows it. But he refuses to add trite pop lyrics to it; in fact, here's the chorus: "The words came out/Not twist and shout/Cause that's not what a grown man writes abouVfhat chapter's over, let it blow over/1 found that I've become the owner/Of a brand new book." 
Next comes "Weeping Statues," an eerie rocker that mockingly examines revelatory visions: "Statues only weep for some/And Elvis just shows up when he's hungry/Lightning strikes at everyone/But only hits the very lucky." 
Parker takes an affectionate, humorous look at the frazzling experience of raising children in "Children and Dogs." He jokes, "I won't work with either one again/It's not in our contract." The remainder of the fifteen songs in this collection likewise rock steady, with country-folk overtones, and the usual dose of reggae ("When I Was King"). 
The lyrics are nostalgic, honest, and encouraging sentiments about living with family and friends in America. The defiant bite Graham 
Parker wielded as an angry young man has been tempered by time and experience (see "King" and "Ten Girls Ago"), but it remains deeply incisive. And, as usual, the music is innovative and engaging. Like I said, this album will not hit you with full force the first time you hear it, but, as I've found over the years, the best albums rarely do. 
Correction: 
The Medieval Banquet will be held on this Saturday, March 2, not Friday, March 1, at 6:30 
p.m. The Observer regrets the error. 
page 15 

Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer 
-
Ballesteros prepared for challenge of Doral field 
MIAMI (AP) -The expecta­stop of Ballesteros' limited of the 1990 campaign which lengthy break from competition. hole skins game was placed on produced a victory only in a His only start since November, the pre-tournament schedule.
tions are a little more modest American schedule. 
for Seve Ballesteros. Ballesteros, a three-time small European event. "I didn't Ballesteros said, was "in a small It matched Ballesteros, Jack "A top-five finish would be British Open champion and want to play. It was very diffi­European tournament." Nicklaus, Ray Floyd and de­good," the Spanish star said twice the winner of the Masters, cult to play, to try hard every "I think I need to play for a fending Doral-Ryder champion 
week. few weeks to find out where I Greg Norman, with $105,000 atWednesday after a skins game is seeking to rebound from 
what he called the poorest am," he said. "When you stop stake.
outing that served as a warm­for a couple of months, you Ballesteros won the first hole,up for the Doral-Ryder Open. season of his career. "When you can't hit the ball 
The tournament, which be­"I didn't enjoy playing very straight, when you can't make need competition to know what worth $5,000, and Floyd took gins Thursday on Doral's Blue much last year," said any putts, it's very frustrating." you are doing." the third, worth $10,000. The Monster course, serves as the Ballesteros, once the outstand­And there's no indication that There was a small change in next six holes were halved in 
anything has ch_anged, the pre-tournament format for pars, leaving $90,000 un­start of the Florida swing on the ing player in the world. 
claimed.
PGA Tour as well as the first "Nothing was right," he said Ballesteros said, following a this event: a four-mao, nine-
The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortunp. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including aW


Classifieds 
spaces. 

FRITZ KLEIN CHRONIC 
I'm still waiting to hear your DESIRETICKETS ATTENTION I ATTENTION! response to my never ending TYPING AVAILABLE ATTENCIONI yearnings for your sexy hunk of 287-4082 GRAD. WEEKEND BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING manhood. Why do you leave me in CHRONIC 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING TAKE YOUR FRUSTRATIONS OUT hanging in the midst of my passion? DESIRE NY TIMES, used and new books 219-291-7153. BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING ON THOSE WILD & RECKLESS Please respond soon or I might Pandora's Books 233-2342 LYONITESI have to resort to something At last they're here: corner of NO ave. & Howard Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 !2:30pm drastic Ill 10-5:30 everyday 7:30pm CREAM YOUR FAVORITE '"'a lustful admirer'"' CHRONIC DESIRE 
3 Bedroom Homes. LYONITE. SIGN-UPS AT THE RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL Walk to campus. Wed. Feb. 27, 1991 7:30pm DINING HALLS DURING DINNER Club 23 : Thursday QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. 232-3616 TIME. Photography for Formals-Halls­Coffee House : Friday 
Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS Senior Bar : Soon I TYPING term Move Off Campus in '91-'92. TAKES PLACE UNDER THE ARCH Photography at 234-8539. papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick 3 great houses avail. Sign Show your support and buy tickets AT 4:30 FRIDAY, THIS is the one: up & delivery available. 277·5134 lease before break and get from the student boxers Ill MARCH 1,1991. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Cathy discount. Call now 288-5653. CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. CHRONIC DESIRE 
FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,MI to Thursday night@ Club 23 FLORIDA KEYS! Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/B,return 3117, HELP , PLEASE SAVE ME FROM " Spring Break Money " Trust me. 
I NOTICES 
LOST/FOUND 
HOUSE RENTALS must be female, VERY CHEAP! MY ROOMATE. I NEED A RIDE Notre Dame Fed Credit Union 
Near Key West and beaches x4859 TO GEORGIA FOR SRING BREAK. No Co-Signer Necessary ~ongrats on getting the FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in Call Rich 288-5428 IF YOU ARE GOING TO GEORGIA "See Our Ad •• internship at "the paper." the snow near P.E. Call x4530. Buy my low priced rd trip tix to OR FLORIDA PLEASE GIVE ME A I'm so proud. Thanks for an 
Attention: N.D. Students Padre for Break call x4833 LIFT. awesome weekend, especially FOR RENT-8 ROOM MICHELLE ROCH for taking care of me when my PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOUSE, 1 RT CHICAGO-PHOENIX OR 284-4338 '"SENIOR FORMAL 1991"' tummy hurt. Betty and Butch 
Lost: 18k Gold and white gold CONVENIENT TO DOWNTOWN, ORANGE COUNTY 3/6-3/18. (Apri\19-21 in Chicago) are awesome, I love them-\ hope bow shaped ring. Lost on NOTRE DAME, MEMORIAL NAME A PRICE-X1779 ned Sign up for rooms, tables, flowers, they make II through the week. -I< 
2-20 at Sorin Formal. Will kill or HOSPITAL, BUS LAW STUDENTS. ADOPTION: Loving, professional tuxedos, & activities die to get it back. FOR FURTHER INFO, 
couple will give your newborn the Call Kristin at 284-5084 IIIII CALL 232-4412 BETWEEN best things in life. Let us help you March 5+6 from 6-9 PM In 
9AM-10PM. through this difficult time. Medical Theodore's See Mark in his boxers. CLUB 23 expenses paid. Legal/confidential. March 7 from 6-9 PM in LeMans See Mark lose his boxers. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Call Barbara and Joe anytime. See Mark run naked down the hall. Found : corduroy NO cap after Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms Daily Specials. New addition: (800) 253-8086. DON'T BE A MARK. Depaul game in band room under for The Coffee House Keep your jeans on! stands. Call Matt-x 3472. Graduation weekend. Located at Bring your books and come Resumes .... Professional quality With love, 
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart study, or just come socialize. 272-5667. (Tom Williams) Going to Syr, NY 4 break? "I slept with Chris and liked It" AND LOST: I lost my thin link gold (12 miles from South Bend) Open daily 4pm-3am. Need plane tlx cheap? Call "Tie me up-tie me down" bracelet on Wednesday, Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 x3623 PS-We liked what we saw, and we Feburary 2011 If you find it, deposit per room. Send letter with CLUB 23 saw IT ALL IIIII please call Jessica at 4824. deposit to 3011 .......JOHN "HERBIE" O'BRIEN, NOW LEASING 
Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, Daily Specials. New addition: Just because you're hot for LAFAYETTE SQUARE GAYNEL LOST nice Casio calculator. IN 46514. The Coffee House us doesn't mean you can call TOWNHOMES GAYNEL Saturday probably at the Huddle. If Bring your books and come us losers, loser! Remember ... NELLIE YOU ARE you found It, PLEASE return it-no 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 study, or just come socialize. Your the one who started this 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS ALMOST LEGALII questions asked. Reward. Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776. Open daily 4pm-3am. payback WAR II AVAILABLE 
call4354. Love & Kisses, Kelley, 
K&M AMENITIES INCLUDE: Thanks for the congratulatory FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd Furnished Bedrooms and Shared CLUB 23 P.S.-Too bad about your disease ... -WASHER AND DRYER present. You still are a crappy floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91. Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. hope It clears upl -SECURITY SYSTEM mother. B and B are latchkey fish. Call Matt @3472. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month Daily Specials. New addition: -DISHWASHER But I still think you're really cool. 
includes The Coffee House -CENTRAL AIR Tee, hee, hee. utilities. Ph. 232-1776. Bring your books and come ATTENTION! -PATIOS Love,


WANTED ,­

study, or just come socialize. National firm has many part-time Gerard 
Open daily 4pm-3am. openings. Looking for students who ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS P.S. I Wuff You. EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK live within 1 00-mile radius of LEFTIIIIIII READING BOOKS AT HOME. FOR SALE campus for special work program. Call For More Info Now CHRIS NELSON WILL BE 21 CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. CLUB 23 $8.10 starting. AASP scholarships & 232-8256 ON SATURDAY AND HE WILL BE 
internships available. Flexible DONEII STICK A FORK IN HIM, I NEED ride to Boston FOR SALE Daily Specials. New addition: schedule. Call259-9740 for STOP THE WAR AND THEN FLIP HIM OVER AND Will split gas & driving Macintosh Plus with two BOOK disk The Coffee House interview. YELLOW RIBBONS: HOPE FOR STICK ANOTHER ONE INII March 7, 8, or 9 drives and word processing Bring your books and come PEACE Derek x1373 software. Call Alison at 283-4011. study, or just come socialize. BLACK RIBBONS: MOURNING ATTENTION all crew team 
Open daily 4pm-3am. I need a ride to New York-• THE DEAD members (present and former): ROCHESTER, NY; I need a ride for Syracuse vicinity. If any­ON ALL SIDES Only 5 more days until JOHN spring break; call John x3371 PLEASE BUY MEl I AM NEW one is going that way save STOP THE WAR O'BRIEN's 21st birthday. Make your 
FULL-LENGTH SILVER FOX FUR CLUB 23 me and give me a call. plans for Orlando now! 
COAT MEDIUM. PLEASE CALL X4049 moo, picnic Need ride to N. VA, Ball. or DC area 255-4139. Daily Specials. New addition: for spring break. Will help pay The Coffee House ??? expenses. GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 Bring your books and come WHEN?? "GOOD QUESTION" 
Chris 1235. (U repair). Delinquent tax property. study, or just come socialize. THURSDAY\ (2 DAYS ? LIVEII ? "Garden Weasel"-Tear up some 
Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 Open daily 4pm-3am. BEFORE NELLIE TURNS 21) AT BRIDGET'S THUR. NITEII earth tonitel NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO 962-8000. WHERE?? OR OXFORD VICINITY ON Ext. GH-9834 for current repo @ BRIDGET'S! (A PLACE AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE! MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY$$$. list. THAT NELLIE WILL LEGALLY BE 
CALL KATIE X2862. 
A ride home on spring break : anywhere near Philly or Del. " will help with $$ " call Matt ,2052 

FOR RENT 

Now Leasing ~FAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
Amenities lndude· -WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT I 1--ALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8258 
K and J -­i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for ABLE TO GO ON SATURDAY) AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE! 

Oh give It upIll Butch and Bettyspring break. Dana x2697. I'm a WHO?? 

will NOTI I live through this week 

great rider. GOOD QUESTION?!? TOMORROW! Ill unless you buy them some SEA­
82 TOYOTA TERCEL SR5 (ASK NELLIE I) Auditions for Shakespeare's WEED and ROCKS 
HATCHBACK, 53,000 MILES, AIR, "The Comedy of Errors" will be held and most importantly .... get aSTEREO, EXCELL. CONDIT., SPRING BREAK SPECIAL FRESHMEN ENGINEERS ... tomorrow at Theodore's from 3-6 net so you don't have to smuckONE OWNER. X 232-8718. SAVE SAVE SAVEll Learn about majoring in p.m. and Friday at Theodore's from them up against the side or dropCANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING I 6-9 p.m. Questions, problems call them in the sinklllll
FUN AND SUNil Scott 234-1048 or Paul x1355. 
Love,

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. SUN SPLASH TOURS THURSDAY The Production Goddesslll
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me 1-800-426-7710. 7:00pm CHRONIC DESIRE for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. at 
Hi Mare­...
Office near campus. Theodores CHRONIC DESIRE What's new? 
MODELS WANTED FOR '"FREE PIZZA'" No more cynicism, right? 
FOR SALE: ADVANCED HAIRCUTTING CHRONIC DESIRE Only positive mental attitudes Red Mountain Bike with 12 speeds. CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-LAST CHANCEl! I See this new band at Club 23 Hi Louise-Low Price. Call Pete 1875. Thursday night, and the Grace We'll have to bond.
271-8795 Coffeehouse Friday night. 
It's 7:55am and what does yourCancun from $359.00 "Everybody and your mother will be roommate do? Run screaming toSENIORS -THINKING ABOUT Air and seven nights there." 

the bathroom thinking she has 5 SERVICE NEXT YEAR?? consider minutes to get to class when really For Sale: 1 rnd trp tix to Orlando for HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. No cash? Take out a loan from the CHRONIC DESIRE she has over an hour. Go figure!

Spring Break. We'll talk price. Call Applications due MARCH 20. Call credit union and then calli CHRONIC DESIRE Hi Christina-
Rob x1891 M.A. White (5521) or M.A.Roemer 
Hope that everything is looking up. 

(7949) for more info. Mike 277-0253 CHRONIC DESIRE 

---~ 
page 16 Wednesday, February 27, 1991
-SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS  HOW THE AP MEN'S TOP 25 FARED  NBA BOXES  
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division w L Boston 40 15 Philadelphia 30 24 New York 25 31 Washington 22 34 New Jersey 18 37 Miami 16 39  Pet .727 .556 .446 .393 .327 .291  GB 9 112 15112 18112 22 24  L10 7-3 6-4 5-5 2-8 4-6 4-6  Streak Lost 2 Won 5 Won 3 Lost 4 Won 1 Lost 3  Home 24-4 19-7 12-17 15-10 13-15 11-18  Away 16-11 11-17 13-14 7-24 5-22 5-21  Coni 24-11 21-12 16-19 14-21 11-22 9-27  How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Tuesday: 1. UNLV (26-0) did not play. Next: at Fullerton State, Saturday. 2. Ohio State (24-1) did not play. Next: vs. Michigan State, Sunday. 3. Arkansas (28-2) beat Baylor 106-74. Next: at Texas, Sunday. 4. North Carolina (21-4) did not play. Next: at Georgia Tech, Thursday. 5. Indiana (23-4) did not play. Next: at Michigan State, Thursday. 6. Syracuse (25-4) beat Villanova 77-63. Next: vs. Georgetown, Sunday. 7. Arizona (22-5) vs. Stanford. Next: at Oregon State. Thursday. 8. Duke (23-6) did not play. Next: vs. Clemson, Wednesday.  BOSTON (99) Bird 6-14 0-0 12, Gamble 7-16 2-2 16, Parish 2-5 3-5 7. Shaw 3-10 2-2 8, Lewis 5-8 0-0 10, Brown 5­10 6-7 16, Kleine 3-7 5-6 11, Pinckney 0-2 0-0 0, M.Smith 6-8 0-0 13, Vrankovic 2-2 0-0 4, Papson 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 40-84 18-22 99. CHICAGO (129) Pippen 14-18 5-6 33, Grant 1-3 2-2 4, Cartwright 3-4 0-0 6, Paxson 2-5 o-o 4, Jordan 17-29 4-8 39,  
Central Division Chicago 40 Detroit 37 Milwaukee 35 Atlanta 31 Indiana 25 Cleveland 20 Charlotte 16  14 20 21 24 29 36 38  .741 .649 .625 .564 .463 .357 .296  4 112 6 91/2 15 21 24  10-0 4-6 7-3 7-3 6-4 5-5 2-8  Won Lost Won Won Lost Won Lost  10 3 2 3 1 1 2  24-3 23-5 24-4 22-6 18-8 14-16 12-16  16-11 14-15 11-17 9-18 7-21 6-20 4-22  26-7 25-11 23-12 17-18 16-18 13-22 10-25  9. Utah (25-2) did not play. Next: at Brigham Young, Saturday. 10. Kansas (21-5) beat Iowa State 88-57. Next: at No. 15 Nebraska, Sunday. 11. New Mexico State (21-4) did not play. Next: vs. Pacific U., Thursday. 12. Oklahoma State (20-5) did not play. Next: vs. No. 15 Nebraska, Wednesday. 13. Kentucky (21-6) beat No. 24 Alabama 79-73. Next: vs. Auburn, Saturday. 14. Southern Mississippi (20-5) lost to Florida State 85-83. Next: vs. SW Louisiana, Thursday. 15. Nebraska (23-5) did not play. Next: at No. 12 Oklahoma State, Wednesday. 16. UCLA (20-7) did not play. Next: at Washington State, Thursday. 17. St. John's (20-6) did not play. Next: at DePaul, Saturday.  Levingston 2-5 2-2 6, Perdue 4-6 1-1 9, Armstrong 2-6 1-2 6. Hodges 3-10 0-0 6, King 2-3 10-10 14, Williams 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 51-91 25-31 129. Boston 1 2 36 21 3Q­99 Chicago 33 41 31 24-129 3-Point goals-Boston 1-1 (M.Smith 1-1), Chicago 2-5 (Jordan 1-1, Armstrong 1-1, Paxson 0­1, Hodges 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Boston 46 (Bird 7), Chicago 48 (Perdue. Jordan 8).  
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division w L San Antonio 35 17 Utah 35 18 Houston 32 23 Dallas 20 33 Minnesota 18 36  Pet .673 .660 .582 .377 . 3:i3  GB 112 4112 15112 18  L10 4-6 7-3 8-2 4-6 2-8  Streak Won 2 Lost 1 Won 3 Lost 4 won 1  Home 21-6 24-4 20-8 13-13 13-14  Away 14-11 11-14 12-15 7-20 5-22  Coni 24-12 25-10 19-16 12-22 13-27  18. LSU (19-7) did not play. Next: at Florida, Wednesday. 19. East Tennessee State (25-4) did not play. Next: Southern Conference tournament. 20. Seton Hall (18-7) did not play. Next: at Connecticut, Wednesday. 21. Princeton (21-2) beat Pennsylvania 63-56. Next: at Harvard, Friday. 22. Pittsburgh (20-9) beat Boston College 88-76. Next: vs. Connecticut, Saturday. 23. Mississippi State (18-7) did not play. Next: vs. Auburn, Wednesday. 24. Alabama (17-9) lost to No. 13 Kentucky 79-73. Next: vs. Tennessee, Saturday. 25. Virginia (20-9) did not play. Next: vs. Maryland, Saturday .  Assists-Boston 25 (Shaw, Brown 6), Chicago 28 (Armstrong 8). Total fouls-Boston 26, Chicago 19. A-18,676. LA CLIPPERS (81)  
Orlando  17  36  .321  18112  6-4  Won  2  14-14  3-22  13-22  Manning 5-17 5-6 15, Smith 7-15 1-2 15,  
Denver  15  39  .278  21  1-9  Lost  2  12-15  3-24  7-27  TRANSACTIONS  NCAA MEN'S SCORES  Poly nice 1-5 2-4 4, Grant 1 0-18 1-1 22, Harper 8­17 2-2 19, Norman 0-1 0-0 0. Garrick 0-0 0-0 0,  
Pacific Division  Martin 3-7 0-1 6, Bannister 0-0 0-0 0, Kimble 0-1 0­ 
Portland  44  12  .786  6-4  Lost  2  28-3  16-9  27-10  BASEBALL  EAST  00. Totals34-8111-1681.  
LA Lakers  40  15  .727  3112  6-4  Lost  1  22-5  18-10  25-9  American League  Assumption 84, Quinnipiac 79  SEATTLE (93)  
Phoenix  36  18  .667  7  7-3  Won  2  21-4  15-14  23-12  BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Agreed to terms with  Bentley 88, Bryant 82  Johnson 6-14 2-214, Kemp 6-11 3-515, Cage 3­ 
Golden State  29  24  .547  13 112  4-6  Lost  2  18-7  11-17  18-17  Anthony Telford, pitcher, on a one-year contract.  Brandeis 88, Tufts 76  6 2-2 6. Payton 0-1 0-0 0, Threatt 12-20 6-6 31,  
Seattle  25  28  .472  17 112  5-5  Won  t  16-8  9-20  12-17  SEATILE MARINERs-Agreed to terms with  Coast Guard 86, Connecticut Coli. 55  Benjamin 7-91-2 15, McMillan 2-5 0-0 5, Barros 2­ 
LA Clippers  18  35  .340  24 112  3-7  Won  2  14-12  4-23  14-19  Dave Cochrane, infielder, on a one-year contract.  Delaware 92, Boston U. 69  8 0-0 5.Totals 38-74 14-19 93.  
Sacramento  15  38  .283  27 112  3-7  Lost  6  14-11  1-27  10-22  National  League  Merrimack 98, St. Anselm 79  LA Clippers  25  15  20  21-81  
SAN DIEGO PADRE5-Agreed to tenms with  Northeastern 78, Vermont 69  Seattle  23  19  28  23-93  
Monday's Games  Jerald Clark, outfielder-first baseman; Joey Cora,  Phila. Pharmacy 80, Alvernia 75  3-Point goals-Los Angeles 2-11 (Grant 1-3,  
Atlanta 96, Sacramento 88  Wednesday's Games  infielder; Tom Lampkin, catcher; and Frank  Pittsburgh 88, Boston College 76  Harper 1-5, Smith 0-1, Martin 0-2), Seattle 3-8  
Philadelphia 92, LA Lakers 90  Minnesota at Boston. 7:30 p.m.  Seminara, pitcher, on one-year contracts.  Princeton 63, Penn 56  (Barros 1-1, McMillan 1-3, Threatt 1-4). Fouled  
Phoenix t 28, Charlotte 1 08  Dallas at Indiana, 7:30 p.m.  BASKETBALL  Springfield 80, Stonehill 66  out-None. Rebounds-Los Angeles 44 (Polynice.  
Tuesday's Games  Atlanta at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.  National Basketball Association  St. Joseph's 98, West Virginia 89  Smrth 8), Seattle 49 (Kemp 15). Assists-Los  
Late Games Not Included  Orlando at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m.  CLEVELAND CAVALIER5-Activated Winston  St. Peter's 85, La Salle 53  Angeles 12 (Grant 5), Seattle 26 (McMillan 9).  
Cleveland 106, Detro~ 1 03  Golden State at Utah, 9:30 p.m.  Bennett, forward, from the injured list. Placed  Syracuse 77, Villanova 63  Total fouls-Los Angeles 19, Seattle 18. A- 
Milwaukee 119, Miami 106  Charlotte at Sacramento. 10:30 p.m.  Derrick Chievous, guard, on the injured list.  Wesleyan 115, Trinity, Conn. 64  11,305.  
New Jersey 129, Indiana 1 04  Thursday's Games  MILWAUKEE BUCK5-Signed Everette  Worcester Tech 76, Amherst 73  
New York 112, Washington 109, 20T  Detroit at Miami, 7:30p.m.  Stephens, guard, to a 1 0-day contract. Placed  
Minnesota 1 00, Dallas 94  Milwaukee at New Jersey, 7:30p.m.  Steve Henson, guard, on the injured list.  MIDWEST  
Chicago 129, Boston 99  San Antonio at·New York, 7:30p.m.  WASHINGTON BULLE:T5-Activated Darrell  Cedarville 121, Cent. St., Ohio 105  PORTLAND (101)  
San Antonio 102, Portland 1 01. OT  Portland at Atlanta, 8 p.m.  Walker, guard, from the injured list. Placed Mark  Columbia, Mo. 84, Missouri Baptist 80  Kersey 1-9 2-4 4, Williams 5-7 2-3 12, Duckworth  
Houston 129, Denver 99  LA Lakers at Denver, 9:30p.m.  Alarie, forward, on the injured list.  Kansas 88, Iowa St. 57  3-13 4-4 10, Drexler 5-17 0-0 11, Porter 10-17 4-5  
LA Clippers at Seattle, (n)  Houston at LA Clippers, 1 0:30 p.m.  FOOTBALL  Morningside 94, St. Cloud St. 78  28, C. Robinson 5-8 3-4 13, Cooper 0-0 0-0 0,  
Orlando at Golden State lnl  National Football League  Nebraska-Omaha 109, N. Colorado 70  Ainge 7-19 2-2 19, Young 0-2 0-0 0, Davis 2-5 0-0  
NHL STANDINGS  BUFFALO BILL5-Signed Reggie Rogers, defensive end.  Notre Dame 92, Dayton 87, OT SW Baptist 97, Mo. Western 80  4. Totals 38-97 17-22 101. SAN ANTONIO (102)  
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOT5-Named Tom Bass South Dakota 80, Mankato St. 64  Green 5-9 2-4 12, Elliott 9-14 6-6 25, D. Robinson  
WALES  CONFERENCE  vice 'president of public relations-player relations;  Wayne, Mich. 99, Orchard Lake St. Mary's 87  9-22 7-13 25, Pressey 2-6 1-2 6, Anderson 5-20 6­ 
Patrick  Division  Joe Mendes vice president of player personnel;  Wis.-Milwaukee 86, Chicago St. 77  10 16, Cummings 3-11 4-7 10, Johnson 3-7 0-0 6.  
w  L  T  Pts  GF  GA  Home  Away  Dmlv  Patrick Forte vice pfesident of administration; and  Greenwood 0-1 2-2 2, Schintzius 0-0 0-0 O.Totals  
NY Rangers Philadelphia  32 31  22 27  10 7  74 69  240 217  200 203  19-9-5 17-12-5  13-13-5 14-15-2  12-9-4 11-12-6  Pat Hanlon director of public relations. PHOENIX CARDINAL5-Agreed to contract  SOUTHWEST Arkansas 106, Baylor 74  36-90 28-44 102. Portland 15 12  34  30  1Q-101  
Pittsburgh  32  27  4  68  274  239  21-11-1  11-16-3  15-12-1  terms with Sidney Coleman, linebacker.  San Antonio  19  25  25  22  11-102  
New Jersey  27  26  11  65  224  210  19-8-7  8-18-4  11-13-5  HOCKEY  SOUTH  3-Point goals-Portland 8-18 (Porter 4-6. Ainge  
Washington  28  32  4  60  204  222  16-11-3  12-21-1  15-12-2  National  Hockey  League  Florida Memorial109. St. Thomas. Fla. 97  3-8, Drexler 1-4), San Antonio 2-3 (Pressey 1-1,  
NY Islanders  21  35  9  51  188  239  12-16-6  9-19-3  9-15-4  NHL-Suspended John Kordic, forward, for one Florida St. 85, Southern Miss. 83  Elliott 1-2). Fouled out-Kersey, C.Robinson,  
Adams Division  game for receiving three game-misconduct  Kentucky 79, Alabama 73  Cummings. Rebounds-Portland 61 (Williams 17).  
x-Boston  36  20  8  80  238  215  21-7-3  15-13-5  15-7-3  penalties in one season.  .  Louisville 95, Tulane 72  San Antonio 73 (D.Robinson 21 ). Assists­ 
x-Montreal  32  24  8  72  218  200  19-11-3  13-13-5  12-10-4  BOSTON BRUINs-Announced the ret~rement  Tn.-Chattanooga 79, Furman 74  Portland 23 (Drexler 11 ), San Antonio 22  
Hartford  28  28  7  63  189  208  16-13-3  12-15-4  9-11-4  of Michael Thelven, defenseman.  Webber 84 Warner Southern 78  (Anderson 7). Total fouls-Portland 31, San  
Buffalo  23  25  16  62  221  221  11-11-10  12-14-6  7-10-7  SOCCER  '  Antonio 23. A-15,908.  
Quebec  12  41  11  35  183  290  6-18-7  6-23-4  6-11-6  National Professional Soccer League  FAR WEST  
NEW YORK KICK-Signed Heinz Pak,  Arizona 89, Stanford 51  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  defenseman.  Colorado St. 71, Wyoming 68  
Norris Division x-St. Louis  w 38  L 18  T 7  Pts 83  GF 253  GA 201  Home 20-6-5  Away 18-12-2  Dlv 14-8-2  Major Soccer League SAN DIEGO SOCKER5-Signed Tommy Loeber, defender, to a developmental player  NCAA WOMEN'S SCORES  
x-Chicago  38  20  6  82  214  167  21-7-3  17-13-3  15-6-3  contract.  EAST  WASHINGTON (109)  
Detroit  27  31  8  62  229  247  22-11-0  5-20-8  12-12-3  COLLEGE  Canisius 63, Niagara 52  Grant 9-201-1 20. King 16-3812-14 44, Ellison  
Minnesota  21  32  11  53  203  219  13-14-5  8-18-6  7-13-4  CINCINNATI-Dismissed Rodney Harris, freee  Clarion 113, Slippery Rock 1 02  5-9 2-4 12. Eackles 4-12 0-0 9, English 5-12 2-4  
Toronto  17  40  7  41  188  267  11-20-2  6-20-5  7-16-2  safety, and Willis Knighten and Keith Short.  Manhattan 62, lana 49  12, D.Walker 1-4 0-2 2, Williams 2-7 0-0 4,  
Smythe Division  linebackers, from the 1ootball team.  Penn 62, Princeton 53  Workman 3-7 0-0 6, Jones 0-3 0-0 0, Hammonds  
Los Angeles  36  20  7  79  266  202  19-8-4  17-12-3  13-7-4  LOUISIANA STATE-Announced the  St. Bonaventure 85, Duquesne 66  0-1 0-0 0. Totals 45-11317-25 109.  
Calgary  34  22  7  75  267  206  19-7-2  15-15-5  12-7-3  resignation of John Mitchell, outside linebackers  SOUTH  NEW YORK (112)  
Edmonton  30  29  4  64  219  212  18-11-2  12-18-2  10-11-2  coach.  Augusta 70, Winthrop 54  Oakley 3-10 2-2 8, Vandeweghe 7-17 8-8 22,  
Winnipeg  22  33  11  55  220  234  14-15-5  8-18-6  8-8-6  MIDWESTERN COLLEGIATE CONFERENCE­ Lincoln Memorial 93, King, Tenn. 75  Ewing 12-24 6-8 30, Cheeks 5-12 0-0 10,  
Vancouver  23  36  7  53  202  255  14-14-4  9-22-3  !!-18-1  Placed Xavier, Ohio forward Maurice Brantley and  N.C.-Greensboro 95, Wolford 50  G.Wilkins 9-15 6-8 26, Starks 0-0 0-0 0, Quinnell 1­ 
x-clinched playoff berth  Butler guard Darin Archbold on probation for the  Richmond 52, James Madison 47  6 0-0 2, Mustaf 2-5 0-0 4, Tucker 5-8 0-0 10,  
remainder ol the season lor lighting after a game  MIDWEST  Jackson 0-1 0-0 a.Totals 44-98 22-26 112.  
Tuesday's  Games  Feb. 23.  Briar Cliff 76, Dordt 72  Washington  26  22  25  20  11  5-1 09  
late Games Not Included  NICHOLS STATE-Announced the resignation  Dayton 70, xavier, Ohio 60  NewYork  22  26  27  18  11  8-112  
Buffalo 1, N.Y. Islanders 1, tie  of Francis Foley, men's basketball coach.  Morningside 78, St. Cloud St. 75  3-Point goals-Washington 2-6 (Grant 1-1,  
Philadelphia at Minnesota, (n)  PENN-Named George Landis offensive  Mount Mercy 74, St. Ambrose 69  Eackles 1-2, King 0-3), New York 2-9 (G.Wilkins 2­ 
Chicago at St. Louis, (n)  coordinator and assistant coach.  Neb.-Omaha 77, N. Colorado 64  2, Quinnell 0-1, Tucker 0-2, Vandeweghe 0-4).  
Hartford at Winnipeg, (n)  PITTSBURGH-Announced the resignation of  Northwood, Mich. 82, Mich. -Dearborn 64  Fouled out-Ellison. Rebounds-Washington 66  
Pittsburgh at Los Angeles. (n)  Ed Bazik, athletic director, effective July 1.  SOUTHWEST  (Ellison 13), New York 68 (Ewing 20). Assists­ 
Wednesday's Games  SAN FRANCISCO STATE-Announced the  LSU 79, Stephen F. Austin 77  Washington 22 (King 6), New York 27 (Cheeks 9).  
Montreal at Detro~. 7:35 p.m  resignation of Dennis Creehan, football coach, to  Texas 77, Texas Tech 53  Total fouls-Washington 24, New York 28.  
Washington at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.  accept an assistant coaching position with  Texas A& I 83, Cameron 81  Technicals-King, Oakley. A-14,360.  
New Jersey at Toronto, 7:35 p.m.  Edmonton of Canadian Football League.  W. Texas St. 126, E. Texas St. 38  
Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m.  SYRACUSE-Named Glenn Deadmond  
Pittsburgh at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.  assistant football coach.  

Order your own 
Personalized T-Shirts 
for your Bookstore Team. -----------------------------------------------------------1
Bookstore Basketball T-Shirt Order Form 
Please PRINT neatly or 1yPe • The ordering team accepts all responsibility that all inforrnatioo is legible and correct 011 this fonn 
Team Name: 
please make sure it will clear the censors 
Decription of what Team Name represents, ifnecessary: 
IContact Team Member: 
Phone#:  
D D  5 -T-shirt Package $60 Pleue .elec:t color below +Number of Additional pleue specify wbc:ther you want Shirt Color: White  Shirts bextra lhiru Black  10-T-shirt Package D $110 You will n:ceive S white plus S of Jelected color below eyond the first 10 x $10 each= to be white or same color u lilted below D Dk Blue Orange Green Grey  

SELECT ONE 

Ink Colors: White Black DkBlue Gold Red Orange Green 
Pick TWO ONLY-cannot be same color u shirt 
Payment is due by check or money order upon placement of order. All orders must be placed b FRIDAY, MARCH 1 • Spm. Please return completed order forms to Adworks, 300 LaFortune between 2:30 and 5:00pm M-F 
You've spent all winter thinking up your Bookstore name, now let Adworks immortalize that name on your very own T-shirt. We will be willing to design a t-sbirt for your team, personalize it witb your team name, and print tbem for you, all for as low as $60 for five T-sbirts. Big-name teams have always been able to afford T-shirts with their team name on them, but Adworks is offering that opportunity to EVERY1EAM IN THE BOOKSTORE TOURNAMENT! 
Just place your order by Friday, March 1st • 5pm and Adworks will have your shirts ready for you to pick-up April 2nd (before the first game). 
How much easier could it be? Each team may select their own T-shirt color and 1WO colors of ink to be printed on the front. We can design a shirt for you, or you can design your own! Designs must fit in a ll" wide by 14" high area, be color separated, camera-ready, and printable! (no rude, crude, or non-university approvable designs accepted) 
HURRY! ALL ORDERS MUST BE PLACED BY MARCH 1! 

Wednesday, February 27, 1991 
The Observer page 17 
Chicago sings the Blues as St. Louis extends lead 


ST. LOUIS (AP) -Rookie Pat Jablonski stepped in for injured Curtis Joseph and stopped a penalty shot and two break­aways as the St. Louis Blues de­feated the Chicago Blackhawks 3-1 in a battle for first place in the NHL standings. 
Brett Hull scored his league­leading 69th goal and Adam Oates and Scott Stevens had two assists apiece as the Norris Division leaders won their club­record ninth straight home game. Cliff Ronning and Geoff Courtnall also scored for the Blues, who lead the NHL with 85 points. 
Dirk Graham scored on a second-period deflection for Chicago, which is second over­all and in the Norris with 82 points. 
Jablonski, who came in when Joseph was hurt 1:57 into the game, stopped Michel Goulet's penalty shot and two break­aways by Jeremy Roenick. 
North Stars 2, Flyers 2 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. Neal Broten scored on a break­away with 1:09 left in regula­tion time to give Minnesota a tie and spoi a 42-save perfor­mance by Flyers goalie Ken Wregget. 

Minnesota has a five-game unbeaten streak (2-0-3) and has lost only three times in its last 15 games (8-3-4). Philadelphia is 3-0-2 in its last five games. 
Neil Wilkinson hit Broten at Philadelphia's blue line and Broten scored low to Wregget's stick side for his first goal in 10 games this month. Mike Modano scored early in the third period for Minnesota. Pelle Eklund and Mike Ricci had first-period goals for the Flyers. 
Jets 5, Whalers 4 

WINNIPEG, Manitoba -Ed Olczyk scored his 200th NHL goal and added an assist as Winnipeg held off Hartford. 
Olczyk, obtained from the Toronto Maple Leafs last November, scored from the left circle on a power play at 19:23 of the first period. 
Brent Ashton, Danton Cole, Mark Osborne and Dave McLlwain also scored for Winnipeg. Bobby Holik scored twice for Hartford. 
Islanders 1, Sabres 1 

UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Dale Hawerchuk's power-play goal with 49 seconds remaining in regulation time gave Buffalo a 1-1 tie with New York, a few hours after the Islanders were put up for sale. 
General manager Bill Torrey announced before the game that John Pickett, the team's owner since 1978, was putting the team up for sale. 
Islanders goaltender Glenn Healy was less than a minute away from his fourth career shutout before Hawerchuk drove a bad-angled five-foot shot through Healy's pads dur­ing a power play for his 22nd goal of the season. The tie was the Sabres' league-high 16th of the season. 
Brent Sutter had the Islanders' only goal. 
Kings 8, Penguins 2 

INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Wayne Gretzky had three assists in outplaying Mario Lemieux and Los Angeles clinched a playoff spot by overwhelming the Penguins 8-2. 
Mike Donnelly had two goals and Luc Robitaille and .John Mcintyre scored nine seconds apart for the Kings, who won their fifth straight game and opened a six-point lead over idle Calgary in the Smythe Division. 
The Penguins, third in the Patrick Division, saw their win­less streak away from the Civic Arena reach eight games (0-7­
1). 
Gretzky helped set up goals by his usual linemates, Tomas Sandstrom and Tony Granato, and had his third assist on a goal by Steve Kasper for his NliL-leading 129th point. Lemieux, who had six goals and 12 assists in his previous seven 

is currently accepting applications for the paid position of 
Accent Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit a one-page personal statement to John O'Brien at The Observer by 5 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 or call John at 239-5303. 


$$$ MONEY $$$ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
You'll have all summer 
• 
Deferred Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


~ NOTREDAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from the Unlverslt 
page 18 

The Observer 
St. Petersburg a hit with NL Expansion Committee 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) -The fact that a potential baseball franchise for the Tampa Bay area would have to play in a domed stadium doesn't hurt its chances to win an expansion team, the chairman of the National League Expansion Committee said Tuesday. 
"Generally, the preference is to play outside. We understand that your climatic conditions are such that it might not be practical on the west coast of Florida," committee chairman Douglas D. Danforth said as his group concluded a two-day swing through the state's potential expansion areas. The group visited Orlando and Miami on Monday. 
The committee has to inspect three more potential expansion sites -Denver, Washington and Buffalo, N.Y. The league plans to award two franchises, with the announcement coming between June and the end of September. 
The four-man committee 
Kentucky rolls Tide to 1SOOth 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)­
Richie Farmer scored 16 points to lead No. 13 Kentucky, which joined North Carolina as a win­ner of 1,500 games by beating No. 24 Alabama 79-73 Tuesday night. 
Kentucky (21-6, 13-4 Southeastern), opened a 70-61 lead when John Pelphrey hit a 3-pointer following an Alabama turnover with 4:31 remaining. 
Alabama (17-9, 11-6), which has lost three of its last four games, rallied to 75-71 at 1:14 
on  consecutive  baskets  by  
Marcus  Webb  and  James  
Robinson.  

But Kentucky was on the way to its 20th straight victory in Rupp Arena when Farmer hit one of two free throws and Pelphrey scored on a fast break layup after Robinson missed from the corner for a 79-71 lead with 24 seconds left. 
Pelphrey and Sean Woods had 13 points apiece, Reggie Hanson 12, Deron Feldhaus 11 and Jamal Mashburn 10 as Kentucky gained a split with Alabama for the season. 
Gary Waites led Alabama with 21 points, followed by Melvin Cheathum with 20 and Robinson 15. 
North Carolina became the first team to reach the 1,500 level with a victory Saturday over Clemson. 
Farmer hit two 3-pointers and a layup in the opening four minutes as Kentucky took a 14­6 lead. But Alabama pulled even at 20 when Waites hit a three from the top of the key with 12:10 remaining in the half. 
Kentucky went on a 17-5 surge behind Mashburn's 6 points for a 41-29 lead before Alabama rallied to trail 43-34 at the half. 
Cheathum scored eight points in the first 6 minutes of the second half as Alabama pulled even at 47. But Feldhaus coun­tered with a 3-pointer at 13:53 and Kentucky was in front the rest of the way. 
Kentucky coach Rick Pitino, usually a conservative dresser, wore an aqua blue and beige sports coat in a friendly poke at Alabama coach Wimp Sanderson's usual plaid attire. 
toured the Florida Suncoast Dome in downtown St. Petersburg, a 42,000 seat facility built to attract an expansion franchise. 
The league's expansion criteria states a preference for open-air stadiums, but Danforth added: "You may recall in our criteria that we expressed preferences, but not absolutes." 
The committee said it was more concerned about the lack of parking around the stadium, but Danforth said he was satisfied by city assurances that more spaces will be made available. 
"We really don't see any serious negatives," he said. 
"Except for a slight possibility of needing more parking, I didn't see any negatives here, to be honest about it," said committee member Bill Giles, president of the Philadelphia Phillies. 
"I think the stadium will be fine for baseball. I think the seating here is terrific," he said. "The fact that there are only 42,000 seats to me is better than having a larger stadium, 
so  that's  a  positive.  The  
ownership  group  is  
impressive."  
Danforth  reiterated  the  

league's position that it would award both teams to Florida cities if it decides they are the strongest markets. The American League, which must approve the expansion sites, has threatened to block such a move. 
"I know that one owner of an American League team has indicated a preference not to have two teams in Florida," Danforth said. "We will try to resist that. 
"We will try to select the two best locations for major league baseball over the long haul. Hopefully, we could be persuasive enough, if that were the case, that we could convince our colleagues, and it would not be a deterrent." 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Sports Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 4 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 27 to Dave Dieteman. For further information, call (239-7471). 
~~ -------~-------­
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 
The Big Red Machine 
Cincinnati Reds coach Tony Perez gives a high five to Reds shortstop Barry Larkin at Cincinnati's spring training facility in Plant City, Florida. 

ATTENTION MUSICIANS 

S.U.B. IS PUBLISHING A MUSICIAN REGISTER ON THURSDAY, MARCH 7th: 
IF YOU WANT TO JOIN A BAND OR FORM A BAND, SUBMIT TO THE 
S.U.B. MUSIC MAILBOX ON 2nd FLOOR LaFORTUNE: 
-your name -your musical specialty 
Submissions are due by noon. Tuesda • March 5th. 


3FOR Willy Wonka Candies 
Regular SOC srze.
}00 }09
Choice of vaneties. 

Aunle 3 Minute Miracle, 8-oz: 3FOR Mentos® 
Regular 50¢ size
SAVE 1.90 
Assorted, pe~perminl

.... Sale 4.99 
or cinnamon flavors.
}00 

1-1--¥-­

Band-Aid® 1199Bottled 
Brand 
~:a~:;,~,Maker 
SAVE 6.00 on Bonled Water Maker, IJWP440 
Atrin,121ablets ~rice-.lth Coupot~ ••. 

Drlxoral,12tablets ~rice with Coupon •.• 3.59 Afrin Saline Spra,, 10-oz. Price with Coupon • • • 3.79 
Your Choice 
Lrmi12,1hru 313/91. 

Power Stick Playing 
2.5-oz. solid. 
Cards

Choice ol formulas 
By Hoyle 
SAVE 90C on Poker or Jumbo size 


page 19

Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer 
Stern envisions NBA as part of new global community 
HEVERLY IIILLS, Calif. (AP) ­Michael· Jordan, Magic Johnson and Charles Barkley aren't familiar names worldwide ­yet. 
NHA Commissioner David Stern foresees basketball and other sports becoming increas­ingly popular internationally as the world's nations continue to become a global community. 
"The global decade of the '90s ... is upon us," Stern said Tuesday at the Sports Summit, an annual sports business con­ference. 
"NBA games will be televised to 73 countries this year. League teams will participate in eight international tourna­ments," he said. 
The commissioner believes the NBA brand of basketball will get an even bigger boost in 1992, when pro players can participate in the Olympics for the first time. 
"That will be the most watched basketball competition in Olympic history," Stern pre­dicted. 
Despite the probable in­creased interest in the NBA 
worldwide, Stern said that the league doesn't expect to have franchises around the globe. 
"That's not part of our plan," he said. "There already are existing leagues and feder­ations in most countries. We won't impose ourselves; we'll be working with those leagues and federations. 
Stern said the "global decade" will offer sponsors and products unique opportunities for promotion through sports. 
"We want to work together to make basketball the No. 1 sport in the world." 

Hoosier Hysteria Begins 
Brebeuf, Concord victorious in first round 
(AP)-Alan Henderson scored 30 points Tuesday night as fourth-ranked Brebeuf avenged a tourney-ending defeat last year and its only loss this season with a 61-57 overtime victory over No. 19 Ben Davis. 
The first-round sectional tourney victory sent Brebeuf into Friday's semifinals at Ben Davis against Northwest. Pike, which beat Northwest for the sectional championship last year, will play Washington on Wednesday. 
Henderson, who also had 12 rebounds and six blocked shots, fouled out in the closing seconds of regulation as he battled for a rebound of a missed shot that could have won the game. 
Instead, the Braves went into the overtime tied 53-53 without their top player, a 6-foot-9 Indiana University recruit. Brebeuf hit all six of its free throws in the extra period, in­cluding two by guard Greg Barber that broke a 57-57 tie with 23 seconds remaining. 
Larry Courtney added two more free throws to clinch the Brebeuf victory with two sec­onds to go. 
Brebeuf (20-1) won its first 12 games this season before a 61-53 loss to Ben Davis (16-7), which also beat the Braves 65­54 in the first round of last year's sectional. 
The only other ranked team in action Tuesday night was No. 6 Concord, the state tourney runner-up last year, which opened with an 85-24 romp over Jimtown in the first game at Elkhart. The Minutemen will play Elkhart Memorial, a 50-44 victory over last year's sectional runner-up Elkhart Central, in Friday's semifinals. 
Jeff Massey scored 22 points and Donny Hackworth added 10 points to lead Concord, the state runner-up twice in the past three years. 
Another defending sectional champion, host South Adams, had its two-year sectional title streak snapped 60-57 by Southern Wells. Elsewhere, North Judson opened defense of its own sectional title with a 70-51 victory over Oregon­Davis, and defending champion Merrillville opened the Calumet sectional with a 73-50 victory over Lake Station. 
-IheJ)I--­
~ 

-...._.. ..., __. 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 27 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
\.... 

AMERICAN EXPRESS,•' 
Gold Card 
PRESENTS 

IN ASSOCIATION WITH 
AUL 


S.IMON 
"BORN AT 

THE RIGHT TIME" 
WfrH FEA11.JRED SOLOIST MICHAEL BRECKER 

APRIL 16,-7:30 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME JOYCE CENTER 
AlL SEATS RESERVED $22.50 
TICKETS ON MU SA1lJRDAY lt:tl A.M. 
JOYCE CENTFR BOX OFFICE 
plus AU.. TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
TO CHARGE BY PHONE: 1-800-359-8383 
NO ONE TO ARRIVE AT JACC BEFORE 7:00 A.M. 
DRAWING FOR POSI110N IN 'OCIET UND AT 1:00 A.M. 

Vlt._ 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
RESOLVED: 
l~All~~ ~ONO~ COD~ All~~ ~NIV~~~IN Of NOl~~ DAM~ ~~O~lD ~~ A~Oli~~~D 
·~ 
0~6:-C;,Cj<(~ 

IWEDNESDAY, Feb 27th • 9pm I 
Morrissey vs. Lyons at Montgomery Theatre St Ed's vs. Grace 2at Hayes·Healy Auditorium 
~ 


----~--~----------------------------------------------------~------------------------­page 20 The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1991 
Bulls gore Celtics in Chicago; Spurs down Blazers 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chicago passed Boston for first place in the Eastern Conference as Scottie Pippen scored 13 of his 33 points in a 33-12 first quar­ter on the way to a 129-99 vic­tory, the Bulls' lOth in a row. 
The Bulls won their 19th straight at Chicago Stadium. Their 40-14 record is a half­game better than Boston's 40­15 mark and increased their Central Division lead over Detroit to 4 1/2 games. 
The 30-point loss was Boston's worst of the season. 
Spurs 1 02, Portland 101 
SAN ANTONIO -David Robinson's free throw with 1.9 seconds left in overtime lifted San Antonio past Portland 102­101, the Spurs' second victory over the Blazers in three nights. 
Buck Williams had a chance to win the game for Portland with no time left in regulation but missed a free throw. Williams tied the game for the first time at 91-91 by grabbing a rebound off a missed Danny Ainge shot, hitting the shot and drawing a foul by Terry Cummings at the buzzer. 
Cavs 106, Pistons 103 
CLEVELAND -The injury plagued Detroit Pistons contin­ued to struggle Tuesday, losing their third straight game and sixth in their last nine as Larry Nance led Cleveland to a 106­103 victory over the defending NBA champions. 
Nance scored seven points during a span of 2:11 late in the fourth quarter that helped Cleveland withstand an unlikely flurry of 3-pointers by Dennis Rodman to beat the Pistons. 
Nets 129, Pacers 1 04 

EAST RUTHEROFRD, N.J.­Derrick Coleman scored 21 points, grabbed 13 rebounds and added seven assists as the Nets snapped the Pacers' six­game winning streak 129-194. 
Reggie Theus, playing in his l,OOOth NBA game, and Sam Bowie each added 20 points for New Jersey. Detlef Schrempf led the Pacers with 21 points and Reggie Miller added 20. 
Bucks119,Heat106 
RICHFIELD, Ohio -Dan Schayes tripled his scoring avercge for the second consecutive game, scoring 29 points to lead the Bucks to a 119-106 victory over Miami. 
Schayes, averaging 9.6 points 

t/f#!TEOLl#() 
Your SPRING BREAK CONNECTION 
To O'Hare & Midway 
Departs from Notre Dame Bus Shelter 
Fares: $27 one way $50 round trip 
FOR SCHEDULE INFORMATION 
CALL 674-7000 
Reservations accepted ... but not required 
PROGRAM IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, & VALOES UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SOPHOMORES FRESHMEN 

--Take a Course -Elect the Concentration -Consider an Inter-disciplinary cJ1 
·,=.:;:·::: .=::{}::·:, 

-Meet Others Sharing YCJur l~qestsjConc':nzs .!k;> 
..)~:ti::: .·.. :;!f?:·· 


per game had a season-high 31 Saturday in a victory over Cleveland. 
Miami cut an early 22-point deficit to 75-71 with 5:30 left in the third quarter before the Bucks regained control. 
Rockets 129, Nuggets 99 
DENVER -Sleepy Floyd had 40 points and personally outscored Denver 22-19 in the third quarter to lead Houston to their third win in a row, a 129-99 win over the Nuggets 
The Rockets were up 52-47 at the half and were ahead 62­5 7 when Floyd came off the bench with 7:18 left in the quarter to hit 8 of Houston's next 10 baskets as Houston went on a 27-6 run that broke the game open at 89-63 with 
1:10 left in the period. 
'Wolves 100, Mavs 94 
MINNEAPOLIS -Tyrone Corbin had 31 points and 11 rebounds for Minnesota, which outscored Dallas 14-5 late in the fourth quarter and defeated the Mavericks 100-94. 
The victory was Minnesota's fifth straight over the Mavericks after starting 0-4 against Dallas in the 1989-90 season. The Timberwolves ended a three-game losing streak and won for only the second time in 10 games. 

Knicks 112, Bullets 109 
NEW YORK -Patrick Ewing had 30 points and 20 rebounds as the New York Knicks im­proved their overtime record to 5-0 with a 112-109 double­overtime victory over the Washington Bullets. 
Washington has lost seven consecutive road games after winning at New York on Jan. 31 behind Bernard King's 49 points. The Bullets have lost four straight overall and 10 of 12 to fall three games behind the Knicks in the race for the final Eastern Conference play­off spot. 






·;,· 
Off-Campus Sign-ups: 
··.February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. ·· 
•. On-Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in your respective dorms. "Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Cashrnir-Ford Street neighborhood. This project needs your support. 
Questions??? Please Call: Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheilbel x1739 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
Summer Internship Interviews Friday, March 22, 1991 
• 
Bachelor's Degree Candidate in 12/91 or 5/92 

• 
EE, IE, MIS, MCC, CAPP 

• 
Students Interested in Working in Chicago After Graduation 


See the Placement Office for Details. 

----~--~­
Wednesday, February 27, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Belles end season with win UNLV players could face 
Seniors contribute in victory over Saint Francis suspensions for hotel bills 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The first NCAA Division lll basketball season came to a close for Saint Mary's last Saturday with a home victory over former NAIA rival Saint Francis, 7 4-6 7. 
For the Belles, whose season 
has been mixed with injuries, 
illnesses and uncertainty, this 
victory was just another exam­
ple of their desire to achieve. 
"l was impressed with the 
performance of our young 
ladies. In many ways they were 
over achievers. They worked 
hard. They overcame injuries 
and illnesses and it was be­
cause we had great attitudes," 
said Belles head coach Marv 
Wood. 
The Belles had five players in 
double figures, led by junior 
forward Janet Libbing with 18 
points. Junior forward 
Catherine Restovich tallied 13 
points. Senior guard Mea 
Tettonborn and center Linda Garret added 12 points apiece. Sophomore Kim Holmes con­tributed 11 points. Saint Francis had two players in double figures. Both Julie Post and Linda Dahman tallied 18 points each. 
The Belles were masters of the court for most of the game. After trailing initially, the Belles' offense began executing its game and took a 29-19 lead with 5:30 on the clock. The Belles' zone defense contained the potentially explosive offense of Saint Francis and held on to a 37-29 halftime lead. 
"They're a run-and-gun team and we made them play half­court," said Wood. "We didn't let them run. We made them work hard for their shots." 
It appeared that Saint Mary's had sealed its victory early in the second half by opening up a 16 point lead, going up 55-39. However, Saint Francis, led by Dahman, chipped away at the 
lead. Dahman ran wild, scoring 
16 of her 18 points in the sec­
ond half as the lead was cut to 
.iust three points, 59-56. 

"l think we let down a little as they hit their shots," explained Wood. 
'lf®<!!J ~(}ij~ ~(§} ~f!IY§Jil ~ ~~oo@ n~fkra (){h&JQ ~ 'f7®® ~nn ikJ@W@ (§} fkJru ~~~g ~IPIP27 fM~Q ~®I?§B 
"Things had been going so smoothly for us that we began playing not as a team, but as individuals," said Tettonborn. "I think we didn't realize that we have to play 40 minutes instead of 30 minutes." 
In the end Saint Mary's proved to be too much for Saint Francis. The Belles reestab­lished a nine-point lead with three minutes left to play. Saint Mary's held on to that lead and sealed their last home victory. 
This final game marks not 
only the end of the season, but 
the end of playing for the 
team's two seniors, Tettonborn 
and Garret. 
Tettonborn started for the 
Belles and was the third leading 
scorer for the season, averaging 
9:1 points per game, and tallying 181 points total for the season. Garret came off of the bench this season to be the fourth leading team scorer, av­eraging 7.6 points per game, tallying 159 points total for the season. 
"Mea will be missed. She had great quickness. She was a valuable part of the team,' added Wood. "Linda came off ol the bench and really made a front line contribution." 
Whhe Fang (PG) 4:45-7:Q0-9:30 Silence of the lamb (R) 4:30-7:15-9:45 LA. SIO<y (PG-13) 5:00-7:30-9:45 

lAS VEGAS (AP) -The NCAA will decide this week whether four UNLV basketball players violated regulations by not paying hotel phone and room service charges during recruit­ing visits, an NCAA official said Tuesday. 
Janet Justus, director of eli­gibility for the NCAA, told KVBC-TV that the organiza­tion's legislative services committee will decide this week whether the incidents are a vio­lation. 
If found to be a violation, Justus said the ·eligibility committee will decide whether the players would sit out one or more games. 
The charges reportedly in­volve a little more than $100 among the four players, identi­fied by the station as Larry Johnson, George Ackles, Evric Gray and Bobby Joyce. Johnson and Ackles are starters. 
UNLV officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment. 
The No. 1-ranked Runnin' 
Rebels, currently under NCAA 
inquiry for 29 alleged viola­
tions, are 26-0 with one game 
remaining Saturday against Cal 
State Fullerton. 
Last year, 10 UNLV players 
sat out a game because of un­
paid incidental hotel bills dur­
ing road games. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
.•Attention crew members: Meeting today at 7:30p.m. in 127 Nwuwland. Balance for break is due, along with $30 for ergathon. Ruppel, please come! 
•Bookstore 
Basketball: Late and faculty sign-ups end today. Sign-up from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on floor two of LaFortune. 

•The 
Aikido Club will be holding elections at the beginning of practice today at 6 p.m. in 219 Rockne. 

•Irish 
Insanity will meet tonight in LaFortune's Dooley Room (1st floor) at 7:30p.m. All are welcome. 

•The 
WVFI Sports Trivia Contest continues today with four more first-round matchups. Join the audience in Morrissey Manor from 7-9 p.m. with a chance to win prizes. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing: will host at Spring Cleaning party Saturday, March 2 at 12:30 p.m. All members old and new are encouraged to come to the boathouse and help. When finished, we will be rewarded. 

•The 
ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club competed in the 14th Annual Northwestern Big 10 Invitational on Feb. 23. The eight person team routine took first place. The team placed third overall. 



American Heart &•a Association~  
ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage Reserve Your Space Now! NQ. Administration Fee .YE.S._Security System NQ. Deposits .YES On Site Manager N.Q Increased Rents for ::rES Free Locks for Students Students NQ. Worries about Break­YES Low Prices Ins While on Vacations .YES Near Notre Dame, New, and Spacious 80-90 Toll Hoa<l North Side of '\ I I Daugla• Rd. ::'A '=A •'OIJ!IJm,"'-"''"''"'"·"--­Betwaen Grape,,-,1!iiF=­l.llllll •• Rd. and St. Rd. llnu las Rd. ...._. * / 23  

SPECS: 
SHIRT COLOR WHITE 
BACK 
IMPRINT COlORS N.AIIY aGOlD 

T-SHIRTS(lOO% COTION). .$10 SWEATSHIRTScso;so>.......$20 
(AVAILABLE IN SIZES S-XXL·AOO $2 FOR XXL) 
r-----------i~cl~Jjl~cl~•-------------­

1 
1SPECIFY QUANnTY AND SIZE 

s M L X L X X L TOTAL TOTAL $ 
t 
PRICE 
I 
T-SHIRTS 

SWEATS 1·3 WEEK DELIVERY OR CALL 314-446-0398 TOTAL COST
I 1----.....J I (ADD $2 FOR SIZE XXL/ADD $3.50 ItER ITEM FOI SHI,.,ING AND HANDLING) I 
MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO AND SEND TO: ROHEN ENTERPRISES I I PLEASE RETURN THIS FORM WITH ORDER 2309 WEST !ROADWAY APT. 204 
1 COlUMBIA, MO 65203 
1J~!i,M.<?.f !~~W1.-!:12f!E! 2~iR_ --~'i!=~'5,. ..~S"~c.*. • • • • • •. 
-~--~----~--­
~----~--------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1991 
Iowa's Acie Earl fined after reversing plea in assault case 


WED., FEB. 27-SAT., MARcH 2 8:10 PM SUN., MARcH 3 3:10PM 
WASHINGTON HALL 

llalecved Seats $7. Stmle11t a11d Se11iur Cilize11 d&·'""''-' tll'ailtlhlt•. u;·ed. Thr11-s. ami S1111 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) --Iowa basketball player Acie Earl, saying "what I did was wrong," changed his mind and pleaded guilty today to a charge of simple assault. 
The charge was filed by a 17­year-old girl who earlier had said she wanted the charge dropped. 
Earl, Iowa's leading scorer and rebounder, had pleaded in­nocent to the charge in Johnson County District Court on Monday. 
Earl's attorney, Randy Larson, filed a written plea of guilty before District Associate Judge John R. Sladek at about 8:45 
a.m. today. 

Sladek fmed Earl $50, Larson said. If Earl had gone to trial and had been convicted, he. would have faced a maximum penalty of 30 days in jail and a $100 fine. 
Larson said the guilty piea was "filed at Acie's request." 
"He just wanted to take re­sponsibility for what he had done," Larson said. "He just felt like it was wrong." 
Later, Earl appeared with coach Tom Davis to apologize to the school, team, fans, family and friends. 
"I just felt that what I did was wrong and I wanted to take' responsibility for it. My friend and I were very upset at the time. But to hold on to hAr thA 
way I did, even for just a few seconds, was wrong and I didn't want to leave anybody thinking that it could be anything but wrong," Earl said at Davis' regularly scheduled news conference. 
He thanked Davis and other Iowa athletic officials, saying they have "put me in touch with some people that I have talked to and will continue to talk to about handling myself better and especially how I can learn to handle emotional situations without scaring anybody. No one should have to be scared of someone even for a few min­utes." 
Davis said Earl would be ex­cused from practice today but would be welcome back Wednesday. 
The coach said Earl would lose his starting spot but would remain on the roster. 
County Attorney J. Patrick White said he was ready to pursue the case. 
"I reviewed the police reports and indicated to Earl's lawyer that I believed that an offense had been committed and that the case should be prosecuted," White said. "Mr. Larson indi­cated that that being the case, they would like to plead guilty and put it behind them." 
The 6-foot-1 0 sophomore from Moline, Ill., was charged late Sunday morning after an 
altercation in the parking lot of his residence with the girl, also a resident of Moline. 
According to the police com­plaint signed by officer Frank Cummings, Earl's actions "resulted in physical contact which was insulting or offensive and placed the victim in immediate fear." 
The girl said in the complaint that Earl chased her after they got into an argument. The complaint said Earl "grabbed her by the neck" and that a "reddening on the right side of her neck was observed." 
The girl, whose name wasn't listed in the police complaint or in court documents, was de­scribed Monday as a "longtime friend" by Larson. 
****************************** 
* 
* 
~ 
* 
~ 
~ 
* 
~ 
* 
~ 
* 
~ 
a 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 

***** 
* 
* 
IH Baseball ~ 
* 
Grad/Fac/Staff Baseball ~ IH Lacrosse ~ 
* 
Floor Hocckey ~ 
* 
Deadline ~ 
* 
Thursday, ~ Feb.28th B * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
************************ 
Tbe Pilm: 
Women On The Verge Of A Necrous Breakdown 
Feb. 28 Stapleton Lounge Js beins sbown and discussed at 
7:00 pm Tuesday March 5th
8p.m. 
at Carron Han-SMC admission is St. 
•sponsored by SIIC Popular Culture Group. 

Monday, February 25, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "The Cross-Dreaded and Desired" by Father Michael J. Himes, associate professor of theol­
ACROSS 22 Edison's middle 50 Succor
ogy at N.D. Stapleton Lounge of Le mans Hall. 
name 53 Subjoin
1 Editor's 
23 Actor Cariou 

54 Some flounders 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering & annotation 
24 Annual event at 

57 "Foucault's
Center for Applied Mathematics Seminar, "Multiple Scales 5 City in N Italy 
frats Pendulum"

Analysis in the Theory of Stimulated Brillouin Scattering," 10 Memorable 28 Rod for Capone 
author 
Dr. Bruce Masson, Phillips Laboratory, Albuquerque, New comic Roscoe 29Timefor 
58 Vale 
Mexico. Room 356, Fitzpatrick hall of Engineering. Spon­vacances 
&o Fur scarf sored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 14 Faulkner's --30 Alias, to the 61 Kind of boom 
Varner P.O. 
63 Melville book 
31 Ice cream, in

15 Case or well 64 Tunnel entrance
4:30 p.m. Colloquium Series, Spring 1991, "German 
Pisa

pre ceder at rush hour
and Italian Influences on Operatic Librettos of G. F. Han­33"Eine­
16 L. Frank Baum's 67 Bogie role 
del," Ellen Harris, professor, Massachusetts Institute of Nachtmusik"
Dorothy 68 Febrero 
Technology. Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. Sponsored 36 Kind of maid 
preceder
by Department of Music. 17 Highway 37 Yule trio headache 69Tessera
40 Night sound 

10 Munro's pen
7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion, "When Women Are Priests, 19 "Non, je ne 42 "The Untouch­
regrette -": abies" hero name
Will the Church Be a Pyramid?" Chaired by Professor 
71 Copal is one
43 Farm units 

Adela Yarbro Collins. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Pial 
72 River in Europe 20 Commonplace 45 Landlopers
Sponsored by The Committee on Notre Dame's Position 
47 He suits people

On the Ordination of Women. 
21 Maupass~.nt's 
­
"Bel--49 Pedro's uncle DOWN 
1 Liquidate 2 Gunner's 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
enclosure 3 Tennyson's "lily maid"
MENU 
18 Not domesti-38 Professor's 52 I.L.A. member4 T.R.'s 
cated milieu 55 TV's Arledge successor 56 "Psycho"25 Gee-tars' kin 39 Urban impasse 5 Chi's follower psycho41 Discharge26 Valentine, e.g. 
6 F.A.A. airport 59 Norse god ofNotre Dame service 27 Scarab or 44 Toper strife cameo 46 Oater group
7 Indian prince 62 Aware of Stir Fry Beef & Green Pepper a Dolphins' home 32 It focuses light 48 Kind of stamp 65 Cycle preceder Chicken Pot Pie 9 Fortifying rays so Virgil epic 66 Cambodia's Fettucini Alfredo 10 Pearl Mosque 33 Baltic-North 51 Yule hanger --Nol site 
Sea canal 

11 Kind of picnic 34 Eur.land 
Answers to any three clues in this 12 Exalts 35 Muse with a lyre puzzle are available by touch-tone 13 Gore and 37 Arruza and phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
Gramm Manolete minute). 
BILL WATTERSON
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVIN AND HOBBES SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
\)Atilt SA\0 'S\-\1:. Ht>.D f>.. 5\\E 'Nto.S 1\.it: cASt.. SWC. 500~0£.0 L\\::.E. P\JS\-1'{ I'{P'E. A OS~ \.IE.R'SELF, B\J\ I n.IE \(\~\) 't\\\00 CAA'I' ~OO'SE 1'\'i CL\£.1{\S. BREA-K '\OOR 
HEF>.RI, oR Mt>.'i~ '{OVR ARMS. I 1\\lRR.IED 
CHE.R. 

The birth of head-hunting 
THURSDAY 

8 AND 10:30 PM ADMISSION: $2
SPINAL TAP 

CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
A ROCKUMENTARY 

SfiTORi)fiY 



r 
f 
-
favor of Notre Dame. . The Observer/David Lee 
e1th Tower gets 1n ~es Coffey's face. Tower scored 21 points and
The Flyers kept it close, but 
pulled down a career-h1gh 17 rebounds in the Irish victory over Dayton.
Ross managed to step in and ruin their plans of sending the game into yet another one game. always seems to bounce my overtime. Although Ross was in Phelps seemed especially way against them." the right place at the right pleased with the play of Tower, Guard Chip Jones led the way time, his steal did not who always seems to play well for the Flyers with points, overshadow the performance against Dayton. The 6-11 center although he made just 8 of his of three other Irish players. scored 22 points and 11 re­23 shots from the field. Wes 
Daimon Sweet scored a ca­bounds against the Flyers at Coffee added 15 points and 12 reer-high 28 points on 13 for Dayton on Jan. 29. rebounds for the Irish and Alex 21 shooting from the field. "I thought Tower was awe­Robertson chipped in 14 before Keith Tower had a career-high some," Phelps said. "We went to he fouled out with 20 seconds 17 rebounds to go with his 21 Tower like we did last time left in overtime. points. And Elmer Bennett against Dayton and he re­Singleton had six points and scored 24 and dished out 7 as­sponded. He played very, very added six assists in his last sists as well. It was the first well, especially with four fouls." JACC performance, while fellow time since March 7, 1988 that "I don't know what it is, but I senior Kevin Ellery contributed three players have scored more always play well against eight points and six rebounds. than 20 points for the Irish in Dayton," Tower said. "The ball 
Women's hoops hopes to score first-ever NCAA tournament berth 
considerable success during the program's 10-year ~~~~~'JIJ~ Jogging from the tunnel to history. Accompanying McGraw were three freshmen: 
at the JACC 
Krissi Davis, Karen Robinson and Sara Liebscher. in their final regular-In the 1987-88 season, the Irish finished 20-8 and home game, the McGraw was named North Star Conference Coach of 
on the women's the Year. Switching to the Midwestern Collegiate 
etball team had cause to Conference the following season did not hinder them, somewhat as the Irish went 21-11. The following year the team 
lsentiJment<ll--antd satisfied. went 23-6. think it was great," said Now the trio that came in with McGraw are seniors, 
captain Krissi Davis. "It and with the win over Old Dominion their record is 20­nice to see how the crowd 5. What's more, the team is ranked 22nd in the changed. It's neat to see it Scott Brutocao country, and barring loss in the last two games of the 
up in four years. To have season, the Irish should be heading to the NCAA many people be at our last Irish Items tournament for the first time ever. it was really satisfying." "If you're in the Top 25, it certainly isn't a guarantee As the spotlight rescued the you'll go to the NCAA's, but it sure helps," said 
players from the surrounding McGraw, whose team was passed over by the darkness, a record 3,291 fans cheered for the 19-5 tournament committee last year, presumably because players got experience and all but one returned Irish. The energy level was high; the buildup even of the Irish's soft schedule. 
this season.

In that year, the Irish were 18-0 in the MCC but only 
"Those eight people during the second semester his stands in great contrast to the spotlight 5-6 outside of it. This year, the Irish are 6-5 outside of a really good core," said Davis. "We're a veryintroductions the Irish experienced earlier this season. the conference, and two of those wins came against team this year, and I think the eight players last Head coach Muffet McGraw remembers earlier in the respected powers Louisiana Tech and St. Joseph's. 
were a building block for this year. The closeness season when the opening-ceremony pandemonium "Right now we're in the driver's seat," said McGraw. 
the way we work together has been successful." 
was, shall we say, less established. "If we don't lose the last two games of the season (at as s
Karen Robinson saw the difference "Those introductions are so much nicer with a good Dayton and Xavier, two MCC teams) or the MCC much different. 
crowd there," said McGraw. "The first time we did it, tournament, we won't be leaving the judgment up to "I think defense is one of the things we've be had about 300 people there and the spotlight was the NCAA tournament committee." 
playing a lot harder," she said. "In the Old ~v""""''" \pa.nning empty seats." What, then, is the difference between this year's and game, and Louisiana Tech, we just pressured them 
Not against Old Dominion. In that game, a boisterous last year's squads? took them by surprise." crowd watched Notre Dame come from 11 points down "They're a much-improved basketball team from last 
Said McGraw, "The big thing with this team has 
midway through the first half to win, 70-58. The crowd year," said Tennessee coach Pat Summit, whose team its chemistry-they play so well together." 
also may have witnessed the beginning of a sequence has beaten the Irish the last two years. "They play well The only question now is whether the Irish c 
of perennial Top-25 Irish teams. The game certainly together, they play a really heady game, and they continue their impressive MCC win streak, which was the fitting ending to a natural progression begun spread the ball around the perimeter. They've the last two years is 32 games. If they do continue four years ago. obviously got people who can score." 
complete MCC domination, Notre Dame Olympic
In 1987, McGraw took over a Notre Dame squad that Last year, during the second semester, Notre Dame will reach another milestone as another team will had been 12-15 the year before, but had had had only eight players on the roster. Consequently, all 
entered into the NCAA tournament ledger books. 




