
-._._......, 

~Jij~t

.Q8·
IU2•1U2 

. 1!1 I
SISQUICI NUNNIAL 

server 
Samt Marys Co lege 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 51 

MONDAY NOVEMBER 11 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND priest warns against doctor-assisted suicide 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Assistant News Editor 
The recent national obsession with doctor-assisted deaths and suicides for the terminally ill can be attributed to fear of a drawn out dying process, of isolation during illness, and loss of control over one's decisions, aecording to Father Hichard McCormick. 
With the circulation of ac­counts of Dr. Jack Kevorkian's controversial "suicide machine" and Derek Humphrey's best snlling how-to suicide manual, 
Soviet discusses Tolstoy 

By KATHLEEN ZIEGLER 
News Writer 
A visiting Soviet 19th-century Hussian historian gave a doubtful prognosis Friday for tlw success of the modern fol­lownrs of Hussian writer and philosopher Leo Tolstoy in their attmnpt to influenee events in 
• Soviet unrest I page 3 
thn chaotic U.S.S.R. 
"It is scarcely possible to think that thny (the Tolstoyans) will triumph in the state that the Soviet Union now finds it­Sidf." said Natalia Pirumova, a senior researeher at the Institute of History at the Aeademy of Seience in Moseow. 
Pirumova. author of six books 011 19th-century Hussian history and other books on so­dalism and libnralism, shared some of her thoughts in a lec­ture titled. "On Tolstoy, Tolstoyans, and Non-Violent Hesistance in Hussia." with the aid of an interpreter, ND his­tory professor Gary Hamburg. 
Tolstoyan thought became a rnligious social current during the Period of Great Heforms in the 1860s and 1870s. One of its premises. the desire for moral perfection, "began to as-

see TOLSTOY/ page 4 

the right to die issue has be­
"Healing takes place through come a subject of national at­technology. When technologytention. fails they turn to technology for The fact that Americans have the next step . . . rather than to 
shown so much interest in these compassion and caring," he topics is "a symptom of a na­said. "They take the easy waytional illness." said McCormick, out, the short-cut." a Notre Dame theology profes­McCormick cited four main sor and internationally re­problems that contribute to the spected ethicist. increased concern for right to 
The death process, growing die issues: old and physically deteriorat­• Knowledge and use of paining, is frightening to most indi­medicine is lacking in the


Father Richard McCormick 

viduals. McCormick explained. United States, he said. Since 
"People are terrorized," he Rather see death as a natu­surveys show that 75 percent of said. "But they don't fear death 
ral, possibly painful step, most American patients are under­
as much as dying; beneath that medicated, McCormick said that
individuals "resist it," he 

is a failure to accept mortality." added. there is an ever-growing fear of 


By TONY POPANZ 
News Writer 

The results of the Palestinian­Israeli peace conference will be disadvantageous to the Palestinian people, according to a Palestinian English professor who spoke at Notre Dame Friday. 
Busaila, a member of the Indiana University-Kokomo faculty. said he does not expect the United States position to change from supporting Israel. 
Also, since the same U.N. resQJution that formed Israel also provided for the coexis­tence of Palestine, any type of resolution issued by the confer­ence is bleak, he said. 
Ninety percent of Palestine has been overtaken by Israel, and Busaila said he expects to see even more Palestinian land diverted as a result of the re­cently increased immigration of Russian Jews into Israel. 
Palestine will be very fortu­nate to leave the bargaining table allowed to continue to ex­ist and have some form of self­rule under Israeli governmental and military regulation, accord­ing to Busaila. 
Busaila witnessed the forceful uprooting of his people. He lec­tured Friday on the "Elements 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


Rest period 

of the Palestinian-Israeli 
Junior Ivan Geer lifeguards at Rolf's Aquatic Center during open 
Conflict." 

swimming yesterday. The indoor facilities provide an additonal ex­
Many have compared the fate 
ercise opportunity for students during the cold winter months. 
of the Palestinians to that of the 
Himes: Church's role in education is key 

By SHARON LAVIN 
News Writer 
For Father Michael Himes, education and religion are syn­onymous because education is learning about the world God created. 
"What enriches you as a hu­man being is what brings you into deeper union with God," said Himes, Notre Dame pro­fessor of theology, in a Friday Forum. 
Himes outlined the role Catholicism plays in the educa­tion of morally responsible people in a pluralistic society. "So long as education does not purely and simply cut short the possibilities of human growth, then it is a direct dialogue with Christianity." 
This dialogue is the ongoing conversation between the Catholic Church and the philosophers, scientists and 



Father Michael Himes 
politicians whose views help de­velop the relationship between education and religion. 
These conversations offer people guidelines for how to live their lives, Himes said. 
"The ongoing exploration of the world is an ongoing part of the Church," he said. All spiri­tual work and missions in the Church are essentially reli­giously based, he added. 
"Everything we can say about ourselves we can find in Christ," Himes said. "We reach God as being as human as we can be." 
Himes said the role the Church plays in education is critical. "The Church must be protective of education if it's going to be faithful to what it understands about reincarna­tion." 
But while "education is neces­sary for full development of a being's humanity, it is simulta­neously a process of radical sanctification, if one takes reincarnation seriously," he said. 
"You see, the world is an enormous school. Christ is the great repertoire. He went through the lectures with us to make sure we don't forget, to make sure we end up real hu­man beings," Himes said. 

physical pain during times of ·illness. 
•Well-known 
cases publicize situations where the dying have their deaths prolonged in a vegetated state. "People are terrified that this will happen to them," he said. 

•Medicine 
as a profession has become more secularized­"more like a business," accord­ing to McCormick. He explained that doctors tend to respond to the desires of the people, re­gardless of how unethical these desires might be. 


•Finally, there is an increas­
see DEATH/ page 6 



Arab: Talks won't help Palestinians 
Indians in North America, he said. 
In the 1930s, the British were the first to invade Palestine, ac­cording to Busaila. Their mo­tive, colonization, caused great turmoil in the lives of the Palestinians, he added. 
"Ever since we came to active consciousness of the situation, we had apprehension that the downfall of our people could happen and would happen. 
We fought this apprehension as much as we fought the British settlers. The danger at that point was very real," re­called Busaila. 
Originally, Palestine consisted of Arabs, Muslims, and Christians, he said. However, after the British intrusion. this balance changed very rapidly. 
Before World War I, there were approximately 50,000 Jews in all of Palestine. After World War II, as a result of the Holocaust and anti-Semitism, 600,000 Jews migrated to Palestine, according to Busaila. 
Soon, this congregation of Jews began to take root and drive away the Palestinians, he said. 
"These Jews were armed and determined to make Palestine as Jewish as France is French and England is English," said Busaila 
Once situated, the Jews began to push for the formation of their own state, Israel. In 1948, 
see PALESTINE I page 4 

Vietnam vet educates to foster friendship 
By MOLLIE MUDD 
News Writer 

By teaching Americans about the Vietnamese people and their culture, Larry Rottmann, a Vietnam veteran, seeks to encourage positive relations between the people of the two nations. 
"We (Americans and Vietnamese) are more alike than different," said Rottmann in a documentary titled "The Bicycle Doctors." "We have to be friends without the govern­ment." 
Rottmann brought his mes­sage to Notre Dame last 
Thursday  in  a  film  
presentation and  a  poetry  
reading.  

The film revealed the 
"character of contemporary life in Vietnam, as it shows people at work in the markets, businesses and fields." 
Rottmann's poems, titled "Voices from the Ho Chi Minh Trail," reflected voices of over 100 people families, veterans and students from both America and Vietnam. 
The poems were accompa­nied by music of Raymond Castrey, who performs with Vietnamese instruments "constructed of reclaimed mili­tary salvages like steel helmets, military shells and temple gongs made from abandoned tanks." 
The poems are quite "humanisitc and you get a 
see PEACE! page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Media blamed for political ugliness 
Things are getting downright nasty in Washington these days. According to a recent Chicago Tribune report, personal attacks are as common as tourists in the capital city. The "F-word" 


is part of everyday speech.  John O'Brien  
And a  lot of people are  Accent Editor  
waving  a  finger  

around-and it's not because the Redskins are undefeated. 
What is the cause of this loss of civility? Is it that people are just meaner than they used to be? Or is it that all of this hatred and anger is simply becoming more public? 
If you subscribe to the first theory-that our current leaders are a bunch of spiteful, ignorant bums-you might want to look at the history of Congress and the presidency. 
Take, for instance, the case of Mas­sachusetts Sen. Charles Sumner in 1856. After a particularly bitter debate over slavery, Rep. Preston Brooks of South Carolina went into the Senate chambers and beat Sumner senseless with a cane. Ouch. 
:,,,, 
.:': :;::: 

/ Vis Associated Prr~ss 
....-----------------------------:--------,''·' 
PrBSSure  .;:,:  
H HIGH  L LOW  ~,·B SHOWERS  ~ RAIN  [Til T-STORMS  0 FLURRIES  EZI SNOW  G ICE  SUNNY  ~ PT. CLOUDY  ~ CLOUDY  '_::: t:  
·.::==··  .:::::=:=:::;::··.  .:··:::::·:··  :·::;:;:·:  :;.;:;:·.  .:.:::::·  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
FORECAST: Mostly sunny today. High in mid 40s. Cloudy tonight with low around 30. Mostly sunny Tuesday and high near 45. 
TEMPERATURES: 

CHy  H  L  
Athens  68  55  
Adanta  53  38  
Berlin  41  27  
Boston  42  34  
Chicago  45  20  
Dallas-FtWorth  63  35  
Denver  49  38  :;:  
Deb'oit Honolulu  4 7 87  23 74  '''  
~~s  ~~  ~~  ::!  
London  46  37  
Los Angeles  72  61  
Miami Beach  68  53  
New Orleans  62  31  
New Vorl<  41  38  
Paris  48  34  
Philadelphia  43  37  
Rome  64  48  
St. Louis  52  25  
San Francisco  75  51  
Seattle  55  4 9  
South BendTokyo  4361  2254  

Washington, D.C.42 35 


Brooks is not the only kook in the history of Washington, D.C. In fact, the place has been full of their kind since all of those pretty buildings were built to house them. Yet even with this history of hatred and insanity, the overall mood on Capitol Hill and in the White House seems to have reached a fevered pitch. Who is to blame? None other than that evil force: The Media. 
One of the the first things prospective journalists learn is that conflict is a source of news. When two neighbors are getting along well, no one cares. When they start hurling artillery shells at each other's homes in a war over where their pets go doo-doo, that's news. 
The same thing goes with Congress and the president. When everyone's getting along, no one cares. How many people would read a story with the headline, "Bush, Congress boast total agreement; Quayle still confused?" Probably very few. 
Now, if the headline read, "Bush gives Congress 'The Finger;' Quayle still confused," you might find a few more interested readers. Why? Because everybody likes a good fight. Tyson-Holyfield, Alexis-Crystal, Quayle­Bentsen-that stuff sells newspapers and makes the 10 o'clock news. And for politicians, making the news is as important as writing bad checks. 
The best way for a member of Congress or a president to communicate to his or her constituency is to be seen on the news or in the papers. Even if they're on TV calling 
! 
I t someone a drunken womanizer, their con­stituents will have the impressions they're actually doing something. Those five seconds on TV are worth a lot more than any 20 congressional mailings. At the heart of all of this hatred is not some general erosion of the nation's moral values. It is the realization on the part of politicians 
t that to get their mugs on the the news, they'll have to cause a ruckus. Calling Bush "a great 
l 
I t man," might make page 12 of the Chicago Tribune. Calling him "a wimpy little squirt with an ugly wife" will make page one of the Tribune, and maybe even garner a paragraph in USA Today. 
And that's what everyone wants out of life. 
Isn't it?

~ 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Production News Lisa Bourdon Peter Loftus Cris Ortiz Kelly Lynch Business Accent Colleen Gannon Paige Smoron 
Andy Runkle Scoreboard 
Rich Riley Jim Vogl 
Viewpoint Sports 
Rich Riley Rich Szabo Lab Tech Graphics 
R. Garr Schwartz Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
Chinese panda gives birth to twins 
•BEIJING-Dong Dong the panda, who was artificially inseminated in April, has given birth for the first time. And it's twins, an official report said Sunday. Dong Dong gave birth to the pair at the Wolong Nature Reserve in southwestern China two months ago, the Xinhua news agency reported. Announcement of panda births are usually delayed because most cubs born in captivity, especially those conceived through artificial insemination, die in their first weeks. Scientists are not sure why. The Xinhua report said both cubs were growing fast. The larger cub weighs 7.5 pounds and the smaller 2.2 pounds. Xinhua said the mother favors the larger cub and has left the smaller one, but did not give details. Chinese zoos are increasingly using artificial techniques to reproduce pandas because the animals do not breed readily in captivity. 
NATIONAL Exxon oil spill made into docudrama 
•JUNEAU, Alaska -British Broadcasting Corp. and Home Box Office are working on a script for a TV docudrama about the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Filming likely will begin next year, said David Thompson, the BBC producer in charge of the project. Thompson says the docudrama will focus on the five days after the March 1989 spill. BBC researchers already have been to Alaska and some ffiming may be done here. "It's really a study of how a crisis like this is dealt with at different levels," said Thompson. HBO has done several "disaster docudramas," including movies on the Soviet downing of a Korean Air Lines jetliner and the terrorist bombing of a Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland. HBO and BBC have worked on several projects in recent years. 
OF INTEREST 
liTHE ICEBERG DEBATES. The wheels are turning for February's debates and we need chairpeople as well as committee members. Call Ana at x3897 to join or for more information. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/November 8 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
224,413,890 216.82 .30 S&P COMPOSITE 392.89 .80 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,045.62 "' 8.40 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-'& $ 0.30 to $361.10/oz. 
SILVER-'& 3¢ to $4.115oz. 

Performers named to Hall of Fame .NEW YORK -Billy Joel, Carly Simon, Little Richard, Michaei.Masser and the teams of Bob Crewe and Bob Gaudio and Kenneth Gamble and Leon Huff, have all been ·selected as national nominees for induction into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. The actual electees will be announced early next year after members of the National Academy of Popular Music, custodian for The Hall of Fame, vote. In the International category are such musicians as Paul Anka, Charles Aznavour, and the teams of Elton John and Bernie Taupin, Mick Jagger and 
Keith Richards, and the Brothers Gibb (Barry, Maurice and Robin). In the Posthumous grouping, the 1992 nominees include Buck Ram, Larry Stock, Max Steiner, Linda Creed and the team of Bert Kaempfert and Herb Rehbein. Induction ceremonies will take place at the organization's 23rd annual dinner in New York on May 7. 
CAMPUS 

Birthday party ends in violence 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-An altercation Friday night in Siegfried Hall sent a non-student to St. Joseph's Medical Center for stitches to the back of the head, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. While attending a birthday party, a Notre Dame male student was cited by a residence assistant for allegedly "acting in a rowdy manner," Hurley said. When the residence assistant asked the student to leave at approximately 
11:27 p.m., he "backhanded" her and struck her in the chest. The student then hit another male against the wall, causing injury that required stitches to the back of his head. The student fled the scene before Security arrived, Hurley said. Security is investigating the incident. 
•sAINT MARY'S JUNIORS interested in a career in magazine and book publishing are invited to apply for nine-week summer internships with Time Inc. Magazines. Salaried opportunities exist in New York City as corre­spondent, reporter/research and Tune-Life Books intern. Review program information by visiting the Placement Services Secretary, 162 Le Mans Hall. Application mate­rials must be submitted by 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 20. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1918: Fighting in World War I came to an end with the signing of an armistice between the Allies and Germany. 

•In 
1965: Rhodesia proclaimed its independence from Britain in a broadcast by Prime Minister lan D. Smith. 

•In 
1966: Twenty-five years ago, Gemini 12 blasted off from Cape Kennedy, Fla., with astronauts James Lovell and Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin Jr. aboard. (Gemini circled the Earth 59 times before returning.) 

• 
In 1972: The U.S. Army turned over its base at Long Bihn to the South Vietnamese army, symbolizing the end of direct 


U.S. military involvement in the Vietnam War. 
•In 1987: Following the failure of two Supreme Court nominations, President Reagan announced his choice of Judge Anthony Kennedy, who went on to win confirmation to the nation's highest court. 

----------------------~-----~-------~-------------­
Monday, November 11, 1991 
Soviet troops retreat from Muslim enclave in Russia 
GHOZNY. U.S.S.H. (AP) ­Nationalists in the secessionist enclave of Chechen-lngush on Sunday forced the retreat of nnarly 1,000 troops sent to en­force emergency rule imposed by Hussia. 
The peaceful· departure of the soldinrs -a day after they ar­riVI~d -appeared to be a slap in the face to Hussian Pn~sident Boris Yeltsin, who is cracking down hard on his first sepa­ratist challenge. 
Gnn. Dzhokar Dudayev, a former Soviet army general who was sworn in Saturday as president of the territory, pre­dietnd that more troops will be snnt to the region. 
Dudayev has lnd the drive by dominant nationalist Cheehens to break from Hussian control. His mainly Muslim autonomous mgion of 1. 3 million people de­dared itself independent a week ago, saying it feared domination by the Russian government. 
Yeltsin refuses to allow any break-up of his federation, saying that would jeopardize market-oriented economic re­forms. On Friday, he declared the emergency rule in Chechen­lngush. 
In Moseow, Hussian legisla­tors met Sunday to debate the emergency rule. Huslan Khasbulatov, an ethnic Chechen who is chairman of the legisla­ture, called Dudayev and his advisers a "group of bandits." 
But the Yeltsin-appointed in­terior minister in Grozny, Cheehen native Vakha lbragimov, protested the decree and resigned, government-run Hadio Hossiya reported. The debate was continuing late into the evening. 
Other Hussian legislators critieized Yeltsin's decree and recessed after hours of incon­dusive debate. The legislature was schfJduled to resume con­sideration of the order Monday morning. 
In Grozny, the capital of Chechen-lngush, meanwhile, thousands of people rallied in Freedom Square for a second day to protest Yeltsin's decree. 
At the eity's military airport, jubilant nationalist fighters waving flags escorted 700 Soviet Interior Ministry troops in civilian buses to Beslan, a town on the border with the neighboring Hussian territory of North Ossetia. 
In the wake of the failed August coup, Yeltsin's govern­ment declared control over all Soviet Interior Ministry forces on Russian territory, ranging from regular soldiers to the feared anti-riot "blaek beret" forces. 
"They were effectively in our sights. We could have taken hostages. We could have de­stroyed them, but we didn't 
want  bloodshed,"  said  the  
Chechen  defense  minister,  
Yusup Soslambekov.  

Dudayev's National Guard, which he claims numbers 5,000 armed men, took control of Grozny's airport on Saturday and claimed to have captured the Soviet troops arriving to enforce the deeree. 
Soslambekov said the Soviet Interior Ministry asked that the troops be allowed to leave their positions. 
Russian Deputy Interior Minister Vyacheslav Komissarov and Yeltsin's min­ister of Chechen, Akhmed Arsanov, also reportedly sent a telegram to Yeltsin from Grozny suggesting the decree should be reeonsidered. 
Dudayev, however, predieted "provocation" from Yeltsin. 
"I expect they (Hussia) will go now to mass terrorist action, provocation, and a kindling of conflict using paratroopers and speeial troops to show the world the strength of their armed forees in individual small suceesses," he told a news conference. 
The Observer page 3 

"Badin Attitude" 
In co-ree basketball yesterday, the team of Badin-Stanford defeated Sorin's team by a score of 55-48. This type of intramural activity enhances male and female relations on campus. 

Nicaraguan police patrol troubled city 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) ­Police patrolled city streets Sunday as the leftist Sandinistas and their right-wing opponents blamed each other for a blast that damaged a Sandinista hero's tomb and set off a wave of violence. 
Police were setting up road­blocks throughout the city to search cars for weapons fol­lowing Saturday's explosion, which led to unchecked burning and looting by Sandinistas. 
The violence reminded Nicaraguans of the divisions that remain following last year's end to the Contra civil war. 
Sunday's police presenee on Managua streets sharply con­trasted with their absence throu;5hout the day Saturday, an absence that underscored the weakness of President Violeta Chamorro's 18-month­old government to impose law and order. Nobody was injured in Saturday's looting. 
Tensions between Sandinistas and government right-wingers have been rising continuously in recent weeks, as each side struggles for a bigger slice of power at each other's expense. 
The Sandinistas, whieh ruled Nicaragua for more than a decade before losing general elections last year, oppose cre­ation of a municipal police force they fear will reduce the power of the Sandinista-controlled army and police. 
They also oppose a proposal to strip Sandinistas of property they seized before leaving of­fice. 
Leaders of the left-wing Sandinistas, which ruled Nicaragua until they lost in 

general elections last year, blamed right-wingers for the explosion at the mausoleum of Sandinista Front founder Carlos Fonseca. 
Former Sandinista President Daniel Ortega blamed the ex­plosion on a right-wing move­ment he said was backed by Vice President Virgilio Godoy, Managua Mayor Arnoldo Aleman and National Assembly president Alfredo Cesar. 
Ortega has strongly opposed a municipal police force con­trolled by Aleman, one of the Sandinistas' arch-enemies, and Ortega threatened to retaliate by resurrecting armed Sandinista militias. 
Godoy speculated Sunday that the Sandinistas themselves set off the explosion to prompt the violence. 


Club Column 
NOVEIIIIER 11, 1991 
l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesqays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) The Management Club will sponsor a Career and Placement ~isc:ussion on summer internships for interested freshmen, sophomores and JUniOrs on Tuesday, November 12 at 7 p.m. in 223 Hayes-Healey On Thursday, November 1 2 at 7 p.m. the club is sponsoring a MBA diKussion panel in 101 Hayes-Healey to speak to seniors about the pros and cons of an 
MBA program. 4)005 User's Group will have a meeting on Thursday, November 14 at 7 
p.m. in GO 15, the basement of the Compuler-Math Building. Call Chris at 283-1998 or Mat at 283-1778 for information. 
5) Medieval Club will meet Wednesday, November 13 at 7 p.m. in the chapel lounge of Pasquerilla East. Undergrad Marko Burger will speak on "Democracy in the Duchy of Carinthia~" 
6)Amnesty International will have a letter writing session and a brief video "You Can Be Arrested Too" on Monday, Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. in the CSC. 
7) The Flying Club will have a meeting on Wednesday, Nov. 13 at 5:30 
p.m. in 214 Cushing. Call Jennifer Martin at 283-2798 for more infonnation. B)Women United For Justice and Peace and Democratic SociaGsts of 
America ND/SMC will be holding a joint meeting on the subject of "Breaking the Myths of Homosexuality" on Nov. 18 at 8 p.m. at the CSC. 
9) Alpha Epsilon Delta is sponsoring a lecture on Wednesday, Nov. 13 by Katie Dudley, M.D. on Women in Medicine and changes in medical education at 7 p.m. in 184 Nieuwland Science. 
1O) Women's Alliance will have a meeting on Nov. 12 at 9:30p.m. in 304 Haggar Student Union at SMC. Call Teresa at 283-5136 or Karen at 237­
1985. Any club wishing to place an entry in th~ Club Colu~n must do~ by_~ pm Thursday each week. All entries appear 1n the followmg ~on~ay s ed1h~n of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordmallon Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
Nuclear fusion test marks path to safety 
CULHAM, England (AP) -An international team of scientists achieved sustained nuclear fu­sion in a weekend experiment that takes the world a major step down the path to a clean, unlimited energy source, ac­cording to physicists. 
Nuclear fusion, the process that gives stars their energy, is regarded as much safer than nuclear fission, the reaction that powers today's nuclear plants. 
Saturday's experiment at the Joint European Torus nuclear installation in Culham, 50 miles (80 km) north of London, achieved fusion for two seconds and produced about 1.7 megawatts of power for nearly a second, said physicist John Maple, the project spokesman. "Two seconds is a long time in fusion," he added. 
'ltd~ t)lld~ 
Ue 'Rttee, ad, 
~~thtt 
If fusion can be sustained for sufficiently long periods, it makes possible a virtually limit­less and relatively clean and safe supply of energy, said Maple. 
Scientists from 14 European countries worked together on the 75 million-pound (dlrs 130­million) a year project, which created energy in temperatures more than 10 times hotter than the core of the sun in the Torus apparatus. 
JET director Paul-Henri Rebut said Saturday that the accomplishment put the team well ahead of Amerieans at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor at Princeton, N.J., and Japanese at the JT-60 fusion reactor. 
"This is the first time that a significant amount of power has been obtained from controlled 

{t4,~ ~~. 
pollution, he said. Although the reactor does be­come radioactive, it does not 
produce the long-lived radioac­tive wastes of conventional nu­clear power stations. 
Love, Mom, Dad Maple said: "Fusion is cer­
Happy Birthday 

tainly clean from an atmo­spheric point of view, but it is a
and Mark

L..--..::::.:::=:..:~=:.::.:.._______________. nuclear process." 
nuclear fusion reactions," Hebut said. "It is clearly a major step forward in the de­velopment of fusion as a new source of energy." 
Although a commercial fusion reactor remains at least 50 years away, Rebut said, "These experiments are a significant milestone and clearly confirm Europe's leading position in fu­sion research." 
The next step, Maple said Sunday, is to build an experi­mental fusion reactor, "which will produce a thousand megawatts of power, for in­stance. Discussions are under way to build that on an interna­tional basis with the Soviet Union, the Unites States, Japan and Western Europe." 
Fusion is "extremely safe" since any malfunction results in rapid shutdown, he said. 
"Anything you do stops the reaction. It is very easy to stop, extremely hard to keep going. Even if something did go wrong there is so little fuel it would not create an emergency situa­tion that would require evacua­tion of the population around the reactor." 
Unlike coal-and oil-fired power stations, the process does not cause any atmospheric 
--------------~~-----­
. The Observer 

page 4 Monday, November 11, 1991 



Tolstoy 
continued from page 1 

sume a particular prominence in Russia" during this particu­lar epoch, said Pirumova. 
The Period of Great Reforms demonstrated that rational so­lutions were possible for cer­tain problems without the aid of violence. 
Pirumova alluded to populist 
S. F. Kovalik in stating, "It was obvious to everyone that any decision based on logic should be the basis for practical ac­tion. "This idea of non-violence to reach reform is a basic principle behind Tolstoyanism, said Pirumova. Tolstoy himself believed that the only "proper response to a manifestation of evil is love." 

Palestine 
continued from page 1 

the United Nations, with the support of the United States, recognized the state of Israel. 
After this historical event followed a period which Busaila dubbed, 'The Chapter of Cruelty.' 
"(This United Nations resolu­tion) gave the Jews the green light to do their will," said Busaila. Approximately 900,000 out of 1.2 million Palestinians were uprooted from their homes, he said. 
Bloodshed and massacres against Palestinians took place, Busaila said. 
"This was a blow not only to flesh, but also to spirit. And we, the Palestinians, are still suffer­ing from it," added Busaila. 
Busaila's lecture was spon­sored by the Muslim Students Organization. 
Please Recycle this Observer. 
Thank You 


JOR•••WIEICENDSIHOLIDAYS 
BIR111DAYSIWEDDINGS 
MOM'S HOME COOKING 
Council T~l offers domestic airf~~res in selected markets! Call info, and 11 FREE Tll!Vel C11r.,logl 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Oe.Ybom Sl, llnd floor Chic49Q, 1160610 
312-951-0585 

His belief provoked what many term as not political but religious movements or cru­sades-a need for personal moral purification and self-per­fection. 
Pirumova listed several rea­sons for the spread of Tolstoyanism: 
•the 
inadequacy of reform legislation, 

•peasant 
land hunger, 

•revolutionary 
terrorism, 

•government 
repression, 



•the 
link between church and state, and 

•the 
politics of the Holy Synod. 


"All of these pushed politi­cally-active and morally-aware individuals to search for untra­ditional ways of protest," said Pirumova. 
Pirumova presented several criticisms and thoughts by Tolstoy's contemporaries. William Frey criticized Tolstoy's idea of religion. 
Unlike Tolstoy, who believed seeking God was an individual pursuit, Frey assumed that the process must be collective. He claimed that "life in fraternity is, by its very essence, the obvi­ous embodiment of life for the sake of others and of the open life." 
The Tolstoyans themselves followed this ideology when they formed their communes. Yet, as Pirumova pointed out, Tolstoy was against the concept of the commune. 
He thought that "when moral self-perfection was undertaken by collectives, it was useless and even 'harmful.'" 
Although the Tolstoyans ex­perienced a favorable environ­ment from 1921 to 1927 in which they were able to live communally without interfer­ence, there were many more periods ~here they were subjected to repression and criticism. 


Several opponents of the group claimed that they had at­tempted to "deprive the Red Army of soldiers and to disarm 
it.H As for the status of the group and its thought today, Pirumova believes that the situation has worsened. "Tolstoy," she said, "if he is read, is only read in the level of academia." She has heard that there is the possibility of a revival move­ment, but this has not be con­firmed. In light of recent events, Pirumova thinks that the group 
will not be successful. The turmoil present in the Soviet Union is acting as a deterrent to the Tolstoyans' ideology. 
She did, however, cite one positive incident: "Not too long ago, several adolescents gath­ered in Red Square with the commitment to non-violence knowing that they could end up in Siberia." 
In her closing words on the Tolstoyans Pirumova quoted Popovskii in saying, "They carry to the grave their dream of a country of universal goodness, a memory of bad soup in the prison camps, and of verses written by friends who have perished long ago. And people living next door to them do not even suspect that, next door, mammoths and dinosaurs of the spirit are passing out of existence . " 






Only you can prevent forest fires. 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
If you think you've come far in the past four years, you won't believe how far you could go in the next five. 
Ifyou've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management Program (TfMP). 
The most comprehensive training program of it's kind in the financial services industry, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environment. Through a variety of rotational assignments--and supplemental classroom study--TIMPis singly focused on developing the managers who will keep us on the cutting edge. 
TTMP is not easy and it's not for everyone. But, if you're looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. 
Find out more: 
Come to The Travelers Information Session on 
Monday, November 11, 1991 
7:00p.m. ' 

Centerfor Continuing Education, Room 212 
Interviews will be conducted 
Tuesday, November 12,1991 

Summer intern candidates are also encouraged to attend. 
TheTravelersj ' 

You're better off under the Umbrella.® 
© 1991 The Travelers Companies, Hanford, Connecticut 06!83 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 


-~­

---------....-------­
Monday, November 11, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 


MIRACLE
National Players 
Ammca's longest 
running classical 
touring company 

WORKER 
BYWJLUAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. 
Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. 
Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. 
Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. 
Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Roemer's order to recognize NO's 150th 
Special to The Observer It is scheduled to begin ready to face a world of new 
shortly after the close of official opportunity and change." 
legislative business Tuesday. Eight other House members 
Indiana Third District who are Notre Dame graduates
Congressman Tim Roemer will "Notre Dame continues to will also speak. issue a special order recogniz­transform the vision of its They are Charles Luken (0­ing the sesquicentennial of the founder into reality," Roemer, a 0hio), Joseph Gaydos (D-Penn.), University of Notre Dame on Notre Dame graduate, said. David Martin (R-NY), Romano Tuesday. "Education at Notre Dame has Mazzoli (D-Ken.), Joseph
The special order, a procla­always been linked to a strong McDade (R-Penn.), Peter mation delivered during time sense of dedication to the Visclosky (D-Ind.), Vincente set aside at the close of official community, a committed fac­Blaz (R-Guam) and Jaime legislative business each day, ulty, innovative research and Fuster (D-Puerto Rico).during which members of volunteerism. Also participating will be 
Congress address constituents House Speaker Thomas Foleyof various issues; will air on C­These traditions continue to-(D-Wash.). Lee Hamilton (D­SPAN cable television network. day, and the University stands Ind.) and Andy Jacobs (0-lnd.). 
'Ky. Accords' protest nerve gas disposal 
RICHMOND, Ky. (AP) -United Nations, regulatory Indigenous Peoples near the Delegates to what was billed as agencies and state govern­Johnson Atoll. the first international confer­ments. Walker said the delegates ence on chemical weapons dis­Delegates to the conference want citizens in the affected ar­posal issued an accord on represented residents from the eas to be more involved in the Sunday that calls on the U.S. areas where the Army has a decision-making process. And Army to ban the use of inciner­surplus of nerve-gas weapons. the conference wants more en­ation as a disposal method. The Army wants to build incin­vironmental studies done at 
erators to burn the weapons at each of the sites. 
The Kentucky Accords asks nine locations -eight in the Among those attending the that some alternative technol­United States and one on the conference was Sergey ogy be developed for disposing Johnson Atoll in the Pacific. Fomichov. Fomichov, a 25-year­of the aging weapons now Before, residents of each of old member of the Green Party stored at about eight sites the affected areas were fighting in the Soviet Union, was a across the country, including at just to keep an incinerator from leader of a successful effort in the Bluegrass Army Depot near being built near them. But the 1989 that kept a chemical Richmond in Madison County. diverse groups have gotten weapons-destruction plant from 
Nerve gas is also stored at together to form a coalition opening near Chapayevsk in the Newport, Ind. against any incinerators. Ural Mountains. 
Craig Walker, a former Berea "For us in Hawaii, Kentucky He and Walker said there is woodworker who works full­is remote. What we need to do heightened concern that with time on the nerve gas issue is come to the realization that the recent nuclear treaties though the Kentucky what we face is a world prob­signed between the United Environmental Foundation, said lem," said delegate Laenui States and Russia, there will be the accord would be sent to the Joyner, who represents the more weapons that need de­Army, the U.S. Congress, the Asian Pacific Council of stroying. 
Unions' support of Harkin still unknown 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Iowa Adding to the uncertainty is public waverings over whether Sen. Tom Harkin has wowed the lingering question of to run and that other candi­union audiences with his blue­whether New York Gov. Mario dates still have a shot at ac­collar roots and rousing attacks Cuomo, a longtime friend of tivists who can wield consider­on President Bush. But labor organized labor, will join the able influence in the activists insist the scramble for race. nominating process. their support in next year's The six major declared can­Democratic presidential race is didates will have a chance to Plus, Cuomo's relationship still wide open. take their messages directly to with labor is not worry-free; his 
the 14 million-member AFL-CIO budget cuts in New York 
Any of the top-tier Democrats at the labor federation's bien­angered unionized public em­-Harkin, Nebraska Sen. Bob nial convention this week in ployees. Kerrey or Arkansas Gov. Bill Detroit. Absent a Cuomo candidacy, Clinton -has a shot at picking On Tuesday, the AFL-CIO will Harkin is given the edge for la­up labor dollars and volunteers, hold a two-hour candidate's fo­bor's support. He's built a pro­activists say, because all start rum featuring all six con­labor record during his tenure as unknowns and none is the tenders. Videotaped highlights in the U.S. Senate and has in­clear favorite. will be sent to union members vigorated union crowds with 
"They are untested quanti­nationwide to help them decide his "never-defend, always-at­ties," said Rachelle Horowitz, who to support. tack" strategy for taking on political director of the Bush. American Federation of If Cuomo were to enter the "He's not going to take no Teachers. "We've only seen the race, he would instantly inherit crap from Bush in the debate," beginning of the stump speech. strong union backing. said Duke McVey, president of They're not national politicians Still, labor insiders say many the Missouri State Labor vet." are fed u with the ov nor's Council. "The guy is not just 


Receive free conditioning with shampoo and hair cut. 
UNIVERSITY HAIRSTYLISTS 
9 -9 Monday -Friday 9-4 Saturday 
(219) 239-5144 

going to roll over." 
Harkin "talks like a true Democrat. We need a Democrat and a Republican to run, not two who talk alike," said George Kourpias, president of the Machinists. 
Just the same, many labor of­ficials privately wonder if the liberal Harkin would have any real possibility of defeating Bush in the general election. Those concerns are prompting some labor activists to take a closer look at Clinton and Kerrey. 
Clinton has hurdles to over­come. He is viewed with skepti­cism because of his affiliation with the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. With Clinton as its chairman, the council supported Bush on a free-trade pact with Mexico that was strongly opposed by the AFL-CIO. 
In addition, Arkansas is a right-to-work state that does not require workers in union shops to pay dues. State labor officials are annoyed that the Clinton administration has promoted Arkansas as a right­to-work state as a way to lure new business. 

page 6 The Observer Monday, November 11, 1991 
Peace 
continued from page 1 

sense, a social anthropological look, at how people lived through that time on all sides of the issue," Rottmann said. 
He served in Vietnam from 1967 to 1968, and for his mili­tary performance he was deco­rated with a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart. 
He quickly dismisses these accomplishments though, be­cause he says they were earned in a war that he "did not un­derstand." 
His confusion about the pur­pose of the war "inspired cu­riosity" and "sparked interest" in Southeast Asia. 
In his military duties, he worked closely with the Vietnamese people and says that "the people never seemed like enemies ... they were gentle, beautiful people." 
While in Vietnam, Rottmann could tell that he was "missing the whole point of a 400 year old culture -the art, the music." 
He felt he was missing the opportunities and knowledge available to him while he wasted his time fighting, he said. 
After the war, Rottmann de­cided to continue to cultivate his interest in Southeast Asia. He has since made seven trips back to Indochina, during which he lived with families and interacted with the society there. 
He says that the Vietnamese are "very interested in the Americans, especially because many, many families have rela­tives in America." The "xenophobic animosity (that Americans feel is present) does not exist," he added. 

The area has not visibly changed much since the war, Rottmann reflects, because "it changes very slowly by Western standards;" it is a "physically and psychologically calming country." 
Rottmann is the director of the O.F. Kenworthy Southeast Asia-Ozark Project, which be­gan about seven years ago. 
The program, an independent non-profit project associated with Southwest Missouri State University, "encourages and promotes educational, cultural and humanitarian exchange 
and  dialogue  between  
Southeast  Asia  and  the  
Midwest."  

He says that students are "children of the 'Vietnam gen­eration"' and "to be concerned is important, whether histori­cally, politically or socially mo­tivated." 

Death 
continued from page 1 
ing emphasis on autonomy or "self-determination." People seem to think "as long as you decide, that makes it right," he explained. 
"All of these factors come to­gether," he said. 
Isolation also plays a part in the current fear. according to McCormick. 
"There is a terror of being abandoned," he said. "Our soci­ety is highly independent. We have isolated the dying process. People are terrified of being dependent." 
He explained that elderly people confined by illness might feel pressure, real or imagined, to "get out of the way." They are mentally separated from their family as they make this decision. 
He continued, saying theat some individuals may remem-



HowYou Like Pizza At Home. 
NOBODY KNOWS 
LIKE 
DOMINO'S.m 
ber a famous case in which it was ruled that a mother was not allowed to decide that it was in her daughter's best in­terest to end her life.People fear such a situation, he said. "More people feel the need to be in total control. 
As a Catholic priest, McCormick explained the Church's stance. 
"In the traditional Catholic teaching, direct killing of an in­nocent person is always morally wrong. The assumption behind that statement is that intending death is always morally wrong. 
It is wrong because of lack of right, Only God has the right to do this," wrote McCormick in a statement issued by Washington State Catholic Conference before the elections Nov. 5. 
While the Church says it is "morally wrong," McCormick added, "that's not going to convince anybody. We have to examine why they (those who favor doctor-assisted deaths) are feeling this way." 
In the political arena, right to die issues have not been si­lenced. 
Washington was the first to act on these issues when its voters rejected a proposal on Nov. 5 that would make euthanasia legal in their state. 
The referendum was opposed by 54 percent of the voters while it was approved by 46 percent, according to the Associated Press. 
In the United States Senate, a bill is in the works that could legalize euthanasia provided that the person who wishes to end his or her life make a statement while competent and that two witnesses can assure that the person will die within six months. 
Recent national publicity of these issues has had some kind of positive impact, according to McCormick. 
"It has been brought to at­tention that such cultural trends exist," he said. "At least that public service has been performed." 
If you see news happening Call 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
ORDER THIS WEEK AND YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 
r---------------, 
I 16" PARTY SIZE I 
I I 
1 ONE TOPPING PIZZA 1 I a• $ I
: met 6.99 : 
Offer expires 12/31/91. "alid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any 1 other offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe driving. 1 
r-~~~----------. 
I 14" LARGE I 
I 

I ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
I 

I I Ml,., $5.99 : I 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any L other offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe driving. 1
r--------------,
1 12" MEDIUM 1 : ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
: II® $4.99 : 
~ Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1 
._. _______________.
1 Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any 
1 

L other offer. Limoted delivery area to ensure safe driving. 
1 

Monday, November 11, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Nine months after Gulf War brings mini-baby boom. 
FOHT CAMPBELL, Ky. (AP) ­Nine months after the I01st Airborne returned from the Persian Gulf War, the staff at Blanchfield Army Hospital is digging in for a siege. They call it Operation Baby Storm. 
The normal monthly birthrate at Fort Campbell and other bases where units shipped out for Operation Desert Storm is expected to nearly triple as a result of last spring's joyous homecomings, Army medical officials say. 
"This is the fallout of literally thousands of soldiers returning from Saudi Arabia at the same time," said Lt. Col. Edwin Dale Schoonover, Blanchfield's chief of staff. "There was planeload after planeload of soldiers coming home day after day in Mareh and April." 
Contingency plans indude ar­rangements for deliveries at nearby civilian hospitals. "We knew this would happen," Schoonover said. 
At Fort Campbell the baby boom is expected to begin in December and remain high through March or April. About 375 women are due to deliver babies in January; the norm is 130 to 160, hospital officials said. 
Operation Desert Stork is the name they gave the situation at Winn Army Community Hospital at Fort Stewart, Ga., where it's estimated 800 to 900 offspring were conceived in the weeks the troops returned home. The 160 births due next month is nearly double the usual rate. 
Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska also reports an in­crease in maternity. The Strategic Air Command tracks births, but not pregnancies, so 
exact numbers on babies due 
couldn't be obtained. 
At Fort Riley, Kan., the usual ·monthly birthrate of 75 to 120 
is forecast to leap to between 
120 and 153 every month 
through April. 
The rush to procreate was not 
impulsive, say doctors and 
midwives who examine and 
counsel mothers-to-be at Fort 
Campbell. 
"It was surprising to me that 

so many of these women were 
purposely staying ofT birth con­
trol," said Maj. Donna Ogg, a 
nurse-midwife. At first she at­
tributed the increase in preg-. 
nancies on women simply fail­
ing to resume birth control dis­
continued while their husbands 
were at war. She was wrong. 
Schoonover agreed with Ogg's 
reassessment. 
War itself probably influenced the couples -most of them in their early 20s -to have babies, he said. 
"There is something about being in a war zone, being in danger and thinking you may not come home alive, that ma­tures a young man or woman pretty fast," Schoonover said. 
Anna Burries, 28, of Washington, D.C., and her hus­band, Matthew, a sergeant from East St. Louis, Ill., abandoned their timetable for having their second child when he returned from Saudi Arabia. 
"I always said I'd never have one in Pampers and one in my stomach. Now just look," said Mrs. Burries, who has two daughters from a previous marriage as well as a 2-year­old son from Matthew. 

She passed the days of Desert Storm watching television news, wondering if her husband would come home and crying over the thought he might not. 
''I'm glad we're having this one, but this is the last," Mrs. Burries said. 
The situation was different for Spec. Paquina Cameron. The 27 -year-old mother of two girls was assigned to Saudi Arabia along with her husband, Darren, a maintenance sergeant. Both were stationed with the 101st Airborne near Dhahran. 
"He was asking me before the war to have a baby and I kept saying no, but after the war, l was ready to have a baby," Mrs. Cameron said. "Over there, you kept thinking 'I might not get back. I might not. get a chance 
again.~ 
and touching collection of soldiers' letters to Mom 
WASHINGTON (API -Cpl. Kevin Wolfe summed up the good news in just 14 words, ev­llrything his family in Clinton, Iowa, needed to know: 
"The war is over. I am alive and well. I'll write for real to­morrow." 
It was one of millions of let­ters sent during the relatively brief combat of Operation The postal service asked Desert Storm, but it symbolized service members and their the missives from soldiers families to submit letters for the throughout American history. book, which will be sold at post 
The U.S. Postal Service has offices for $24.95. 
compiled "Letter from the "When we started this pro­Sand," a collection of letters ject, we wanted to share the from soldiers in conflicts rang­sentiments and emotions of ing from Desert Storm to the troops in the desert and those Civil War. waiting at home. Soon we saw a common thread of hope, of 

..------------------------•pride of country and love of
family," said Postmaster General Anthony Frank. 
Lt. Mark Berger described the end of Desert Storm in a letter to his parents in White Bear
Coming Soon 
Lake, Minn. 
"I woke up this morning to screaming that the Iraqis had surrendered. ... Thank God it's over." 
But the joy of those who sur-


MICHELE • MICHELE MISHY-MELLY-J."~·~ 

• Discounted Bestsellers • Special Orders • 
Love: Kris, }en,

• Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • • Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • • Bonus Book Club • 
POWER. • • 

r-------------­
1 

l LUST .. •
Exchange this coupon for 
I

I 25% OFF 
I your next purchase at your I Little Professor Book Center I in South Bend I 
1 Offer good through November 30,1991 1 
I •OtTer ~ot valid on newspapers, magazines, IL __ spe~ ~e~ o~i~other dis~n~ __ _j 
Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood South Bend, IN 46637 Telephone: (219) 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
e 
BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'll love. 
vived is tempered with the tragedy of families whose sons and daughters died. 
"Mom, I love you and B more than anything in the world," Pfc. Wesley Hutto wrote his mother, Lit Lambert of Andalusia, Ala. 
"I am fighting because I willingly joined the army to defend democracy against all enemies foreign and domestic . Hussein is an enemy of democracy. I must die for his sins." 
Hutto was the first soldier from Alabama to be killed in the desert conflict. 
"Dear Mom, I know this isn't much but in case I'm not around: Happy Mother's Day. I think you are the perfect mom," Lance Cpl. Gary Haisman wrote 
I

I GREED • • • 
1 1 
I I 


Pam Haisman of Fort Myers, Fla. He died in a shooting accident May 3. The letters cover a multitude of topics. 
-The enemy: 
"I had to guard some guys that surrendered today.... (One) turned to me and said something in Arabic. I have never seen such fear in a man's eyes," wrote Specialist Shane Sorensen of Great Falls, Mont. The interpreter said "he was asking if I was going to kill him. He thought I was leading him to an execution. I just wished I spoke Arabic so I could tell him what was going on." 
-Anti-war protests: 
"Please let any anti-war protestors back home know that there is nothing more de­moralizing to a 19-year-old Marine who is about to lay his life on the line for his friends and country than to listen to a bunch of whining, ignorant people complain of him being here and what he's doing," Lt. Mike Ragoza, wrote his mother. 
f?ESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! DAYTONA BEACH from lfQ4
5 ana 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISL4ND ''"mlf28 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT ,,om lf22 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ''"mlf22 
7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ,,o,JfJ6 
7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISL~~ND ''"mlff9 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANC ISLAND I "0"'1f28 

PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
ltth Annual Celebration! 


TOLL FR&IINFORMATION I RIIIRVATIONI 
1·800·321·5911. 
~~~ 
------­

dRadiosOn 
sale 179.99 

A. Grundlg Yacht Boy 230 pockel size world band radio is so small it fits in your Large multi-function LCD with time card shows the names of 43 with their time and time zones. clock has an alarm, sleep timer operates on standard oJ;'.millitaJ:"Y·••tmlet u Has 13 shortwave re<~eD,tion 8% 
USE YOUR HUDSON'S SHOPPING CARD, VISM MASTERCARD'r DISCOVER'" CARD OR THE AMERICAN EXPRESS'" CARD. HUDSON'S IS OPEN MON.-SAT. 10-9, SUN. 12-6. 
Business 
Monday, November 11, 1991 page9 
House to vote on proposed family leave bill this week 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
U.S. House of Representatives is preparing another test of President Bush's veto resolve on a bill that would guarantee many workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave In family emer­gencies. 
The showdown comes as Bush Is being criticized for Ignoring domestic problems and after he agreed to compromise on a civil rights bUI he had long opposed. 

President Bush should join Congress in reducing tax rates to spur growth in the economy, said Housing and Urban Development Secre­tary Jack Kemp on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation" Sunday 
Supporters of the family leave idea in both parties hope timing will help their chances either to avoid a repeat of last year's veto of a similar bill or to override Bush for the first time. 
"The tide is moving in our direction," said Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J., the leading Republican sponsor. "There is considerably more support ... than we had last year." 
The House is scheduled to vote on the family and medical 
Kemp supports reduction in tax cuts 
leave bill this week. Speaker Thomas Foley postponed a scheduled vote last week to al­low time to assess the strength of a Senate-passed bill and of a weaker version proposed by Rep. Tim Penny, D-Minn. 
The Senate last month passed a version worked out with Re­publican moderates, and sup­porters contend their two-thirds majority means they can override a veto in that chamber. 
But sponsors remain short of that two-thirds, veto-proof majority in the House. As a re­sult, they considered rallying around Penny's proposal, which would cut the guaranteed un­paid leave period to six weeks. for illness or to care for a sick family member, while leaving it at 12 weeks to care for a new­born or adopted child. 

Penny's bill was the object of intense maneuvering late last week. Penny has opposed the stronger versions and, encour­aged by Democratic House leaders, said his bill would bring the support of as many as 20 wavering Republicans and conservative Democrats. 
But even Penny didn't claim his version had achieved the support of two-thirds and late Friday said his proposal was being torpedoed by Rep. William Clay, D-Mo.. Clay was trying to draw liberals away In protest, Penny said. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush should join Congress in reducing tax rates "to get America growing again," Housing and Urban Develop­ment Secretary Jack Kemp said Sunday. 
Appearing on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation," Kemp said he be­lieves such a measure could be enacted this year. 
Kemp has previously sug­gested a tax cut, but Bush said last week he didn't see how he could cut taxes and stay within the budget agreement between the administration and Congress. 
The president also said that the state of the economy "is not recession" and "does not meet the defmition of recession." 
Asked about that, Kemp said: "This economy, while techni­cally, perhaps, out of recession, it's limping, it's anemic, and it needs some oxygen in the body economic to create more jobs, to create more growth." 

"So I think the time is right, personally -I haven't yet con­vinced everybody in Congress or the White House -to have a joint Bush and congressional tax rate reduction, not to bust the budget, but to get America growing again," Kemp added. 
In doing that, Kemp said, the administration should embrace some Democratic proposals to stimulate the economy, citing low-income housing tax credits and individual retirement ac­counts for first-time home buy­ers as examples. He mentioned Democratic proposals by Sens. Daniel Moynihan of New York, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Rep. Charles Rangel of New York. 
Republican political consul­tant Ed Rollins, who served as White House political director under President Ronald Rea­gan, said on the same program that he agreed with Kemp's assessment of the economy. 
"Technically, a recession may be over, but nobody cares," Rollins said. "There's a lot of people out there who are hurt­Ing, and this president ought to be saying, 'Listen, I'm going to do whatever it takes to stimu­late this economy, get people back to work.'" 
Commenting on Democratic Sen. Harris Wofford's victory in Pennsylvania last week, Rollins said the Democrats "talked about issues that were relevant to the people of Pennsylvania, and they attracted back their voters that Reagan had built a coalition around." 
"If we let Democrats take back their coalition, take back their Democrats, we're going to lose," the GOP consultant said. 
When asked if he thought that might happen, he said: "I think It's going to happen unless people start focusing on the issues that matter to people, and that's economy, the economy and the economy." 


COURSES ADDED CE 498 09 14036 • Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. HIST 680 01 f4030. Technology in History; 3 cr.hrs.; MWF 10:10 • 11:00; Permission Required . HIST 670 01 t4033 • The Contours of American Religious History; 3 cr. hrs.; T 02:45. 05:15 MBA 667 01 t4034 • Escalating Commitment & Policy Decision Making; 3 cr. hrs; TH 02:45 • 04:00; Permission Required; cross-listed with MGT 487·01 PHIL 604 01 f4035 • Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs. ROIT 106 02 114031 • Beginning Italian II· Architect; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 1"1:15 • 12:05; Pre·req. ROIT 105 & ARCH majors only ROSP 599 01 114032 • Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs. ; Graduate students only CHAtUiE.8 AERO 441L 01. t0614 change time to 11:00 • 12:15 ARHI 470 01. 113519 change dayS/lime to MW 02:20 • 03:10 ARHI 570 01 • 113524 change dayS/lime to MW 02:20 • 03:-0 CHEG 448 01. 111013 change time to 12:15 • 01:05 CHEM 116 01 • 112930 add prerequisite • CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 116 02.112932 add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 11& 03.12934 add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 116 04. 12936 add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 118 01 • 112931 add prerequisite • CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 118 02. 12933 add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 118 03 • 12935 add prerequisite • CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 118 04 • 12937 add prerequisite • CHEM 115 or 117 CHEM 236L 01 • t1052change requirements to CHEM 224 or 236 pre· or corequisite add corequislte • CHEM 329L CHEM 329 01.111057 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 01 • 111160 prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 02. 111161 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 301 03. 113745 add prerequisite ·ICON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 302 01 • 11162 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 302 02 • 111163 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 315 01. 113141 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 350 01 • 11164 add prerequisite • ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 350 02. 13747 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 380 01 • 12969 add prerequisite. ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 123 & 224 ECON 445 01. 11365 change prerequisite to ECON 301 and 302 ECON 592 01. f3755 add prerequisite· ECON 494 or 591 ENOL 340T 05. f3862 change lima to 08:00 • 08:50 GEOS 342 01.111139 change days/time to TH 01:15 • 02:30, change credit hours to 4, and change prerequisite to EASC 341 GOVT 342 01. f1507 add corequisite of GOVT 342T GOVT 446 01 • t3605 should not be a "Recommended University Elective" GOVT 451 01 • Call number should be 113367 GOVT 482 01 • t3598 Course number has been changed to 485 HIST 225 01. 110135 Not open to anyone who has taken HIST 115 or HIST 116 liPS 478P 01. f3984 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 liPS 578 01 • t3321 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 ;,a;_ 645 01 • 13912 change restriction to MBAA only MBA 646 01 • t1810 change restriction to MBA only MGT 240 01 • t1863 change dayS/lime to MWF 01:15 • 02:05 and the instructor is R. Bualuan MGT 487 01 • 113800 Is "Permission Required" MGT 454 01 • 111872 change dayS/lime to TH 11:00 • 12:15 MSA 545 01 • f38031s not "Permission Required"; It Is Majors only MSE 225 01. f1988 chanae davs/time to TH 01:15 • 02:30: change coreauisite to CHEM 115 or 117 or 125 or 195 and CHEM 116 or 118 or 126 or 196 PHIL 578 01 • f3320 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 soc 202 01 • f2582 add restrictions· Sophomores or Juniors only SOC 220 01 • 10333 add restrictions • Sophomores and Juniors only SOC 346 01 • 13027 add prerequisite· Any Soc course SOC 591 01 • 110106 change days/time to TBA THEO 411 01 • 12672 change time to TH 09:30 • 10:45  NEW DART INFORMATION Because of a concern over equal access to closed courses which reopen, there will be a change in the way DART handles them. Instead of reopening immediately, closed courses eligible to reopen (meaning that at least one person has dropped) will be listed in the Observer. After this listing appears, the courses will be opened for the next call back period. We have also developed a contingency plan in case of computer failure or any other emergency that severely disrupts registration. All appointment times will be moved back two days, from Monday to Wednesday or from Tuesday to Thursday for example. This two day move is necessary since appointment times are assigned so that they do not conflict with current classes and a Wednesday schedule should be very similar to a Monday schedule. (The same is true for Tuesday and Thursday schedules.) If registration is delayed for more than two days, the appointments would be pushed back a corresponding length of time. The appointments times would remain the same, only the date would change. If such a change ever becomes necessary it will be published in the Observer (if possible) and posted at the Registrar's office and all departmental and college offices. Remember that you can use the DART Course Exchange Option to attempt to register for a different class without dropping one you already have. The old course will be dropped only if you are successful in adding the new course. This option is useful if you have a full load, if you want to try to get into a different section of a course, or if a course you want has a time conflict with one you already have. For more information see page 15 in the DART book.  

 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, November 11, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .•••••••••••••.••••••••Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor•••••••••••••••••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••••.•.••.David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor...••........••.••. .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controllar ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 

This week the Judicial Council is finishing its two week train­ing program of all hall judicial boards in the hopes of reform­ing the campus judicial system. Unfortunately, the judicial boards are not often used in 

-tr" 
inform the student body of the actions of the Judicial Council, but to encourage them to ask their dorm Judicial Chairman if they have any questions regard­ing dorm or University judtcial policies and procedures. Each chairman is a resource for you 

most dorms because many stu-rectors from using judicial an atmosphere of confidence sent to the judicial boards in­if you find yourself accused of a 
dents do not know they have boards regularly. It is the in-and capability in each dorm stead of automatically being violation. In addition, I would 
the right to have their case tention of the Judicial Council to board. There has also been a sent to the rectors. The inten­encourage anyone in violation 
heard by a jury of their peers. provide formal training sessions workshop in which the detailed tion behind having judicial of dorm rules to ask their rector 
In addition, some rectors do this year to eliminate many of procedures and policies of board is to make every hall if their judicial board might 
not feel that the members of the the objections that rectors have running a judicial board have member accountable to their hear their case. 
judicial boards know how to to the use of judicial boards. been outlined and explained to peers for their actions. We 
correctly handle making de-A member of the Office of each dorm. hope that increased use of judi­Ellen Lewis 
cisions about and rendering Residence Life will present a We hope that by providing cial boards will make this policy Judicial Council President 
punishment to their friends. two hour formal training semi-each dorm with a trained and a reality in the near fpture. Tom Clare 
The question of confidentiality nar this week to give credibility competent panel, more of the Judicial Council Assistant 
and ethics also dissuades many to the boards and help us create violations of dorm rules will be I write the article not only to Nov. 7, 1991 
Campus paper cannot truthfully claim independence 
Dear Editor: Perhaps I'm not very bright, independence. The editors Ha. Just kidding. I know the tration is greatly affecting the In the Inside Column of but it seems to me that if the know that they can annoy the administration would never give day to day operations of The November 1, Kelley Tuthill be­administration restricts adver­administration up to a certain up power voluntarily. But Observer. I'm an outsider, so gan by congratulating the Ob­tising, and has control of The point. But they also know that seriously, the only reason for it's difficult to tell. The only server for 25 years of existence. Observer office space and stu­the paper's existence is threat­the administration not to do this example I can think of is the She then went on to describe dent fees, then The Observer is ened if they exceed that point. is that it wants to influence the elimination of alcohol adver­some of the past conflicts not exactly independent of the So, they restrain content of The Observer, or at tisements. Granted, this might between The Observer and the administration. themselves-they compromise least retain the potential to do seem fairly trivial all in all, but administration. the paper's independence. so.) what is significant is who made 
She noted that the adminis­Ms. Tuthill says "a group of Hence, my problem is as fol­Here is a more practical solu­the decision to prohibit alcohol tration had forced The Observer people under the Golden Dome lows: The Observer is not truly tion: the editors should simply ads. It was the administration, to accept restrictions on have suffered from indigestion an independent paper, but its change the banner of The Ob­not the student editors. Is this advertising (Specifically, no al­as they read The Observer dur­banner declares it to be "The server to something less hypo­what you would expect from an cohol advertisements are al­ing the lunch hour. She is re­Independent Newspaper Serv­critical. Try simple honesty: independent student newspa­lowed). She also alluded to the ferring to the members of the ing Notre Dame and Saint "The Official Student Newspa­per? fact that The Observer has of­administration, trustees and Mary's." So, I will propose two per of the Administration." Or To conclude, I respect The Ob­fice space on campus and re­parents (it couldn't be deter­solutions. how about a lame attempt at server's striving for indepen­ceives student fees, but that mined whether the students' The ideal solution would be humor: "The Independent dence. But striving for inde­these privileges could be re­indigestion was caused by The for the administration to give Newspaper Serving Notre Dame pendence and actually voked by the administration. Observer or the dining halls). up the economic power it lords and Saint Mary's ... Not." Or the achieving it are two different 
In her conclusion, Ms. Tuthill She seemed to be implying that over The Observer. They could plagiaristic approach: "All the things, and it's time the editors celebrated the fact that The because The Observer annoys give The Observer a permanent News the Administration of The Observer realized this. Observer had steadfastly main­the administration, it must be and unconditional lease on their Considers Fit to Print." tained its independence in spite independent from it. office space, and could could John Q. Eller of all this. That's where I got However, being a nuisance similarly give The Observer Now in all honesty, it doesn't Pangborn Hall confused. doesn't necessarily imply real control of student fees. (Ha, ha, appear to me that the adminis-Nov. 6,1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Sometimes a scream is better 
than a thesis.' 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 

If you can't scream, submit QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


Accent 
Monday, November 11, 1991 

That's Entertainment 
Shenanigans celebrates ten years with fall concert 
By JOHN RYAN of Shenanigans. Accent Writer The crowd did not fill the spacious Washington Hall, but it was lively and enthusiastic in 
In a rare fall concert on Friday night, expressing its approval for the fine performance. Shenanigans celebrated its tenth year as Notre Dame's vibrant song and dance group. Shenanigans was started a decade ago by Rick 
Ward and two other sophomores as "an 
The concert consisted of a wide variety of hits. outgrowth of tho Glee Club," said Elli Reichelt, The group performed, among other numbers, the present publicity manager of Shenanigans. "Georgia Brown," which many people have come "The group began as a co-ed club which to associate with the Harlem Globetrotters, and performed "some more fun songs, and in­"We Go Together," from the famous Broadway corporated dancing," she added. show and movie "Grease." 
Linda Hondstadt's "Blue Bayou," one of the Today, Shenanigans consists of eighteen group's favorite numbers was also performed. members and a music ensemble from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. It has maintained the 
Many Shenanigans alumni made the trip back same style over the past decade, although the to Notre Dame to be present at this special group has somewhat expanded. anniversary concert. Several alumni even put Aside from performing on the Notre Dame and together their own acts, in addition to joining Saint Mary's campuses, Shenanigans performs in some of the numbers on the original program. the local communities, and at local charities and 
Special additions included a scene from the nursing homes. Broadway show "City of Angels"and the famous song "Blues In the Night." The alumni were A tour is planned each spring break, which Invited back on the stage to join in the final num­provides other parts of the nation with a chance ber, "The Time Will Trickle, Trickle." to see Shenanigans' popular shows. This year, if 
Because this was a special reunion concert, plans work accordingly, Shenanigans will bring 
The Observer I Sean Farnan

much of the crowd consisted of alumni and its show to California, with possible stops in cities 
Shenanigans performed an anniversary concert last Friday night at
family. "Everyone seemed pretty happy about the such as Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Fran­
Washington Hall. Several Shenanigans alumni put together their own
crowd," said Michele Potter, a freshman member cisco. 
number for the occasion. 

fOnce upon a time. • • , 
Rosalind Clark tells the story of her unique teaching skills 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR tales are not a well-received as when she was growing up in "sit around the fireplace and States. 
Saint Mary"s Accent Editor she would hope. Amherst, Massachusetts. take turns telling, (but) it was Clark did complete her educa­As a storyteller, "I want the Clark credits her family for always understood that dad's tion in America, though, gradu­Tell me a story. people to have the experience encouraging her to read and stories were the best." ating from the University of and excitement that I have. It's having high expectations since At one point her father tired Massachusetts before working 
Hosalind Clark has both heard awful when I'm spreading she was the oldest. Her mother of listening to her children's in the Peace Movement. She at­and said that phrase many things I love most and they (the would read her children's books story recordings and bought her tended graduate school because times In her life. The assistant students) don't care." This and took them just as seriously a Romeo and Juliet record. of a program in old Irish while professor of English at Saint usually happens only in fresh-as she did, while her father Clark and her brothers thought working as a teaching assistant. Mary's "like(s) men English. helped her appreciate adult it was great and "played it over Teaching college students was a stories the best Clark's love books such as "The Odyssey" and over." natural career choice after so of anything In -----------of poetry has and Dante. "The first part is funny to lit­much experience. the world" and 'I want the people to posed another Clark says she was encour­tle kids, she siad. "Kids don't Clark credits her love of liter­has an problem. She aged to tell stories to her two mind so much that they don't ature and teaching to her earli­ImpressIve have the experience says students younger brothers. "I was in understand all because when est years. She says that repertoire of in the United demand. They would ask for you're little you take in what­"teachers make the mistake of tales to tell at and excitement that I States are not repeats and I built up a reper­ever is given to you." telling children only what they any given have.' taught to toire." She remembers telling can understand" when they moment. memorize and gruesome Clark and have a much greater capacity to 
-Rosalind Clark appreciate her brothers learn and memorize. 
G r I m m s -----------­
------------poetry. fairytales that acquired a 
"All poetry is kept their 'Every time I reached familiarity for She says children don't really for getting written In our culture," Clark imaginations Shakespeare know what the Pledge of Alle­
... "And then they

from the says, and students don't learn spellbound. since they giance or "don we now our gay Immediate subject In class, but the rhythm. "American students lived happily ever heard lt so apparel, fa-la-la-la-la" mean she maintains that Is not the do not appreciate rhythm At age eight, much, so but they learn them anyway. 
assumption. To because they have never been Clark's family after ... " they said, when they One of Clark's recent favorite substantiate the assigned read-trained in rhythm," when it moved to studied it in storytelling episodes was to a
"Tell another one!" ' 

lng, Clark contributes related should be as automatic as the Ireland, where school, "thee" fourth grade class. The memory stories that she tells, retells, music on the radio. she said there ~Rosalind Clark and "thou" delights her. "Every time I ­"I memorize poetry automati-were "certain were not reached the end 'And they lived "I tell stories to myself and cally," Clark claims unaffect­e i a -----------­foreign to happily ever after.. .' they said
s p c I 
lt them for classes," she ex-edly. Yeats was her first love storytelling them. 'Tell another one!'" 
ains. She tells vignettes to and she knows much of his po­times." Living in a tiny cabin, When she was 11, Clark and Clark probably inherited her ideas from the 13th cen-etry by heart. She says that her father was too seasick to her family moved to Iceland talents from her grandfather, "closer to what they (the when she reads anything read so told stories by heart where her interest progressed who is "a tall storyteller who ts) would recognize." enough, memorization does not instead. to Norse mythology and sagas. gets a gleam In his eye and the years, she has have to be a conscious effort. Clark recalls hearing about She had extensive exposure to holds (his audience's) atten­"to adapt stories to the the dreadfulness of "The In­literature and theater in Eu­tion." She says her favorite 
terest of the group," although Her flair for captivating ferno" which had the appeal of rope, an opportunity she said aspect of teaching is "me telling he adds that sometimes her classes and audiences began a ghost story. Her family would wouldn't have happened in the stories." 


-------------~~ 
page 12 The Observer Monday, November 11, 1991 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3P·":'· All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1nclud1ng all spaces. 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING TOM WESTRICK ATTENTION JUNIORS!! GREAT SENTIMENTAL BREAK TRIPS! --TOM WESTRICK--Please bring in your pictures (all
NOTICES VALUE-AROUND THE North America's #1 Student Tour TICKETS --TOM WESTRICK--You horizontal, no alcohol present) for JACC OR WASHINGTON Operator seeking motivated weenie in INSBRUCK JPW slideshow to Student Activities HALL. PLEASE CALL students, organizations, fraternities Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock by Dec.2.
TYPING AVAILABLE NO FOOTBALL TICKETS
1456 and sororities as campus wish you well in that land of easy Put name and address on back.
287-4082 WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
representatives promoting Cancun, "A". FOUND: ADVANCED RUSSIAN Bahamas, Daytona and Panama May your skiing ever be in those SEXY girl needs ride to ROCH
Buy and Sell used books Help!!! I'm in dire need of
NOTEBOOK LEFT IN OBSERVER City! wonderful mounds of Austrian NY area for TURKEY 
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and Tennesssee G.A.'s. Please call
OFFICE. PLEASE PICK IT UP. IT Call1-(800) 724-1555! mountains. Call KATH x2905
the NY Times too!! Andy @ 233-9588. 
LOOKS SERIOUS. 
corner of NO ave and Howard 

I need a ride to Philly-Wilm-S.N.J. --TOM 00 THE COPY SHOP 00233-2342/10-5:30 everyday 
Lost: Gold Coin Ring area for Turkey Day break! Will WESTRICK TOM LaFortune Student Center 
Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big $ pd.

Great Sentimental Value help drive, share expenses. Amy WESTRICK TOM Copies as low as 3¢ in volume!
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908
If found please call Lisa x4290 WESTRICK-­
237-1949 449-0589.
atx4838 WANTED:TASTY SYR DATES ICE SKATING INSTRUCTORS BOY WONDER, TED, RICHIE INTERESTED?? BRING A
The Early Childhood Development NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283­
lost: Fuji camera on Halloween in for Wednesday nights, 6:45-CUNNINGHAM, SOTTIE B.­BANANA TO 218 LYONS
Center{ECDC} is having a BOOK 1545
parking lot of either Club 23 or the 9:15 pm. Call Mrs. Myers at HAPPY BIRTHDAY!
FAIR: 

Commons. If found please call 287-4524 and please list your Squire Ravage has been docu­Nov. 8,11-14 
Sheila #2547. qualifications. Hello K.S. from KS mented as procrastinating in
7:30 am-5:30 pm CHEAP! CHEAPI CHEAP! 
{Yes you, Jr. football mgr.) regards to his present wagon ride.
Books for children preschool 2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO
Lost: one blue spiral notebook for "If There Was A Way" Maybe next week.
thru 6th grade, Discovery toys, HAWAII OVER THANKSGIVING 
my Mi era economics class. I have FOR RENT Your Secret Admirer 
World Books/Childcraft. Great CALLX3457 
a test coming up. If anyone hasHOLIDAY GIFTS for the whole 

seen it , please call CRIS x4892. COLLEEN CORA! LULAC would like to thank everyone family. Proceeds benefit ECDC MAK & EZ are thinking of you in who attended the mixer atclassrooms. If ? For Sale: 2 Penn St GAs
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY France. Nous t'aimonsl Theodore's on Saturday night. You
call 284-4693 219-291-7153 x2558 Amy made the evening a tremendous success.
MEN'S GROUP WANTED help family reunoin in HAPPY ADOPTION: Proud parents ofFor Graduate Students VALLEY-need a TON of TIX for adopted toddler eager to find
NICE FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE PSU game. call BILL X1583 
newborn to join our family. Our Bell Biv Marten,
An opportunity to discuss ALASKA SUMMER NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT Issues for today's man EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 NEEDED: 2 PENN ST. G.A.'S 
warm and stable home offers The personals have been rather $5,000+/month. Free security, lots of adoring relatives drab lately, don't you think? It's time
Including: PEOPLE 2773097 CALL CHARLIE AT x1737 Benefits & limits of male transportation! Room & Board! 
and a life full of love. Please call to get things moving again. Sorry roles Over 8,000 openings. No 
Barb and Dave collect 513-751-about the game on Sunday, but you Costs of performing and experience necessary. MALE or PERSONALS 7077. know how those officials can mess
BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME 
pursuing FEMALE. For employment program up a game. Keep up those moves,
$200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, 
Emerging men's movements call Student Employment Services both on and off the field.
LAUNDRY, ETC. I am the Lizard King and I can do 
For she who is both -A­at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118. 
CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794. anything. 
Chased and chaste; To the '91-92 NO Drummers:Group will meet weeky at the Fear not, for when caught andUniversity Counseling Center on Going to CLEVELAND this Shot, the hunted shall not die, Thank you for the best SeniorThurdays from 3:30-5:00 PM. Call Gymnastic instructor to teach young weekend? I might like a ride,
Len Hickman or Clint Gabbard to children. Must enjoy working with But live. Football Season I could wish for.
A quaint studio in lovely old please. Pete x1791. 
join 239-7336. children. Must also have your own And both preditor and Every one of you holds a special 
mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $225 I 
transportation. Will train, flexible Prey will be content. place in my heart. Underclassmen, 
mo. plus deposit call 2879624 GETAWAY WEEKEND 
keep the traditions and spirit alive SEND YOUR MAN A FLOWER!! hours. Send resume to: KOONTZ HOUSE because-
Wednesday, Nov. 13th BRYSON STAPLES BED 'N BREAKFAST FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TOat IRISH GARDENS 403 E. TERRACE DRIVE 
FOR SALE 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE 

PICK · UP AT 3:30 AND CARE SENIORS ... GONE.
JEFFERSONVILLE, IN 47130 
DAME 

FOR 7 YR. OLD 3-4 HRS.
Discount for women sending flowers 586-7090 
THEREAFTER. STAY Most Sincerely,or balloons-OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A Jennifer
$. 50 off any purchase up to $5.00 Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling IBM compatible computer, two stronger than burt 
WEEK (MY HOME $1.00 off any purchase over $5.00 Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! monitor-$350 or best offer call KNOLLWOOD/GRANGER AREA) Chuck, Spring Break Packages To floppy drives, Epson printer, b/w INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
-· 
AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. I was just wondering, are you upset
Best 'Trips & Prices! Spring Break X3352 Good rates. Save Money. Call me START NOV. 13 THRU END OF
Watch for future Wednesday Travel1-800-638-6786. or angry with me? -C. 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, YEAR. WEEK OF X-MAS OFF.

Specials! 
289-1993. Office near campus. 

(NEED FREQUENTLY RIDE NEEDED FOR Sorority, Student Organization, or A Beautiful 78 VW Van, from THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 THANKSGIVING LOOKING FOR a Fraternity, GOURMET COFFEE! 
WEEKLY. MUST BEI LOST/FOUND RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE. ARE YOU DRIVING TO THE 
exceptional individuals that would California, Great Condition ... 
like to potentially make $1000.00 or $2300 (616} 684-7203 You'll be the envy of all your friends 
more sponsoring QUALITY SKI and REFERENCES. CALL DONNA@ NO.JERSEY/NYC/L.I. AREA? IF
TO THE PERSON WHO if you win this prize at the SMC
BEACH trips on campus. For further 277-8269. SO, I WILL PAY$$ AND SPLIT
BORROWED THE TAN OVER­Student Phonathon, November 4­DRIVING. WILL LEAVE TUES ORinformation Call Mark at Orion
COAT HALLOWEEN NIGHT ON 14, 1991. Call Jean at 4582 to sign Is anyone going to the Detroit Rush WED.
Tours, Inc. NEW TYPEWRITER 40% OFF
THE RIDE TO LAFAYETTE SQ., up or for additional details! Free concert Nov. 13 or 14? I need a PLEASE CALL X34141-800-800-6050. 271-0868.
COULD YOU PLEASE CALL MARK long distance phone calls! Free ride. x4009OR KEVIN 289-6494 food I Free funl 
...--~~-------------­
Alumni wins soccer crown 
ByJIMVOGL 
Sports Writer 

Alumni Hall was crowned 
champion of men's interhall ·soccer with a 2-0 victory over Cavanaugh on Sunday after­
noon. 

Darrin Smith scored the frrst 
goal off a cross from James 
Quinn in the rrrst half, and Jay 
Berhalter added another score 
in the second half off a free 
kick. 

"Their goalie (Chris Fischer) 
played a very good game," said 
Alumni's Eric Horvath. "We 
just had good shots that would 
have gotten by any goalie." 
"They had good shooters," 
said Cavanaugh captain Garr 
Schwartz. "They had two good 
goals that we didn't have much 
of a chance on." 

Alumni's co-captains Eric 
Horvath and Volker 
Blankenstein mentioned two 
key points to their victory. 
Horvath elaborated on a new 
system implemented by the 
Alumni squad late in the sea­
son. 

"We switched to having five 
halfbacks and one forward," he 
said. "It opened up the field and 
controlled the game more today 
than in the beginning of the 
year." 

Both co-captains were im­
pressed by the tremendous fan 
support. 

"I've never seen that many people at an intramural soccer game before," said Blankenstein. "I would like to thank the people for coming out and making it fun." 
Said Horvath, "(The impres­sive turnout) really creates an atmosphere. Usually, it had been just 22 players out there and the referee~ There had to be a couple hundred people there. The .cheering and en­couragement pumped both teams up and really got us go­ing. There were fewer lapses in the game." 
Schwartz took the loss with pride and dignity. 
"I want to congratulate Alumni for an excellent game," he said. "They were a very good team. 
Although disappointed with the loss, Cavanaugh soccer should not be dismayed; with the nucleus of this year's team all freshman and sophomores, the Crusaders will be assured of a very strong soccer team for years to come. 
Schwartz focused on this hopeful possibility rather than dwelling on the loss. "I'd like to thank my team for having a good season," said Schwartz. "These guys are really talented. We'll be a defmite threat in the future. You can count on new guys. coming in to fill any slightly weak spots we have now, so we should be even bet­ter next season." 
Evansville blanks men's soccer team in MCC tournament finals, 2-0 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
A great season came to an end Sunday as the Notre Dame men's soccer team fell victim to a powerful Evansville team, 2-0, in the finals of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament in Indianapolis. 
In the regular season, Notre Dame battled the Aces through two overtimes on the way to a scoreless tie, but their would be no overtime Sunday afternoon. 
Tournament MVP David Weir did the damage, scoring both Evansville goals, while the Irish offense could manage only three shots on goal against a sticky defense. 
Weir's first tally came with just under five minutes remaining in the opening period. Graham Merryweather sent a cross into the box and Weir was able to head it past Irish goalie Bert Bader. 
Eleven minutes into the sec­ond half, Weir knocked in Steve Church's cross, giving the Aces the final 2-0 margin. 
Evansville's win gives them 
1 
an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, and greatly re­duces Notre Dame's chances for an invitation. 

The Irish cruised into Sunday's final match with shutout wins over Detroit and Xavier. 
In Thursday's opening round 6-0 win against Detroit, junior Kevin Pendergast and freshman Say Prado each notched two goals to tie an MCC tournament record. 
It wasn't quite as easy in Friday's second round, but goals by senior Kenyon Meyer and freshman Jean Joseph were enough to lead the Irish to a 2-0 win over Xavier. 
Notre Dame's defense, led by senior Brett Hofmann and junior Mario Tricoci, allowed the Musketeers only two shots on goal on the way to their fourth consecutive shutout, the 11th blanking of the season. 
Despite falling just short of their first conference title since 1988, several Irish players earned well-deserved personal honors at this weekend's tournament. Hofmann and Meyer made the MCC all-tournament team as well as earning frrst-team all-conference honors. Four Irish rookies, Oates, Joseph, Bader and defender Chris Dean form the nucleus of the MCC's all-newcomer team, so the future of Notre Dame soccer looks bright. 
Laker's start over, sans Magic 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Laker fans dabbed at moist eyes Sunday night as forward James Worthy read a statement from Magic Johnson at the first home game since the three­time NBA MVP stunned the nation with word that he carries the AIDS virus. 
"This is the first day of the rest of our lives," said Johnson's message. "I say this to you fans because we, the Lakers, need your support more than ever before. I say this to all of my teammates because starting now, it's winnin' time." 
Johnson, 32, at the peak of a professional basketball career, announced last week that he was HIV-positive and was retir­ing from the Lakers. 
The Lakers played their first game after the news on the road -in Phoenix on Friday night -and lost to the Suns 113-85. The team was lacklus­ter. 
On Sunday night, however, Laker basketball returned with all its glamourous idiosynchra­cies. 
The Laker girls were there. So were the famous faces in the Forum Club and the expensive seats. The crowd was fashion­ably late as usual. 
It was almost like old times, only without the Magic. 

Monday, November 11 , 1991 The Observer page 13 
Men's 1-H football set for finals 
Carroll to face off against Keenan for championship 

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR

Nearly 67 million Americans have one One in three adult Americans has high YOUR LIFE
or more forms of heart or blood vessel blood pressure, according to the
disease according to American Heart Association statistics. American Heart Association. American Heart 
Association 


+
Am.erican 
Red Cross 

ENTER 
NOW 
SQUASH TOURNAMENT 
•MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
TABLE TENNIS SINGLES 
•\!EN'S AND WOMP...: •w:'SI• ,. · 
Convention & Visitor's Bureau P.O. Box910 Daytona Beach, FL 32115 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
Keenan and Carroll will meet in the school's largest interhall sporting event, the lnterhall Football Championship, next Sunday at Notrn Dame Stadium. 
In the semi-finals on Sunday, Keenan's typically strong de­fense shut out Flanner as the Knights prevailed 3-0 on a 22­yard field goal. First-seeded Carroll played catch-up and capitalized on two big plays, winning 13-10 over Zahm in double ovnrtime. 
Knenan's defense has only al­lowed six points (on a touch­down) in fivn games this season. They showed their toughness undnr firn by thwarting several Flanner drives. 
"Flanner is an excellent team," said Knights' senior captain Phil Wehby. "They moved the ball very well. But when we had to we stiffened up." 
The key moment in the game came down to the last Flanner drive. 

"They had the ball on our 15 yard line," said sophomore Bryan Schindler, who was re­sponsible for another defensive stop with an interception late in the first half. 
"We stopped their momentum and stuffed them on three consecutive plays. They missed the field goal and that was the difference in the game." 
"People stepped up and played well when we needed it," said Wehby. 
Keenan will be facing a Carroll team that withstood a ferocious battle from Zahm in a game that lasted into two overtimes. 
Carroll fell behind quickly in the first quarter, as Zahm connected on a long bomb. But they recovered with a bomb of their own, a 60-yard touchdown pass from Jon Oleksyk to Anthony Laboe. 
The 7-7 tie remained until the second overtime, when Zahm hit a field goal. But again, Carroll bounced back; Oleksyk hit Pat Coleman with a 20-yard touchdown strike for the final tally. 
Both Carroll and Zahm, as top-seeded teams, admitted be­ing rusty after received byes in the first round of the six team tournament. 
"The time off hurt us," admitted Wehby. "We haven't played since fall break, and the weather hasn't been very cooperative. We were out of sync and we made a few stupid mistakes." 
As is typical of interhall foot­ball, defense and the running game will be the keys, both strengths for the surviving squads. 
"They have a tremendous de­fense and quite an offensive line," said Carroll running back Tom Sullivan. "It should be a defensive battle. Whoever gets the first touchdown should win it." 

• CO-ED WATER LACROSSE 
NDSllJDDITS. FACULTY AND STAFF ARE ELIGIRI.F. 
DEADLINE-NOVEMBER lJ 
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 11, 1991 
Women's tennis drops close match to Vols 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

As if the heartbreaking foot­ball loss to Tennessee wasn't enough, the Lady Vols women's tennis team pulled off a nail­biting 5-4 win over the Irish in a match complete with all the excitement and tension one could hope for. 
The Irish, unranked in the fall poll, were up against the 15th­ranked Volunteers, to whom many of the Irish players had tasted defeat against during the Brown Invitational earlier this year. To the Irish, this was a chance for a little revenge, a chance to gain some attention. 
The Irish singles lineup took control of the match, establish­ing a 4-2 lead thanks to some spectacular play. At first sin­gles, Melissa Harris defeated Mandy Wilson, to whom Harris had lost in the finals at Brown, 7-6, 6-4. Harris jumped out to a 5-2 lead in the first set before Wilson battled back to force a tiebreaker, which Harris won 9­7 before taking the next set and the match. 
At second singles, Tracy Barton and Debbie Moringiello put on a terrific battle, back and forth all the way, before Moringiello emerged with a 6-3, 4-6, 7-5 victory and a point for Tennessee. Freshman Laura Schwab, making her first dual­match appearance for the Irish, dropped the first set to Michele McMillen 7-6, after being down 4-0 right at the start. Schwab then settled into a groove, re­sponding with 6-4 and 6-3 vic­tories in the last two sets to 

SMC swimmers fall, 128-105 
Special to the Observer 

The Saint Mary's swimming team lost a meet to Transylvania College 128­105 this weekend. Highlights for the Belles 
included  a  win  by  the  
medley  relay  team,  
Kathleen  Goldski's  50  

freestyle win, and Carrie Cummins' diving victories. 
claim the matchat third singles. 
"This was my first real taste of what college tennis is like," said Schwab. "I think everyone winning in singles was important, because it would have been easy for us to be intimidated by them since they're ranked." 
At fourth-singles, Christy Faustmann fell to Wendy Anderson 6-3, 6-4, but at the same time, Lisa Tholen cruised to· a fifth-singles victory over Shannon Kagawa 6-3, 6-3 to keep the Irish one point ahead. 
To close out the singles play, Terri Vitale pulled out a stirring 6-1, 4-6, 7-5 victory over Paula Juels to give the Irish a 4-2 lead with three doubles matches to go. 
"I think that at the end," said Vitale, " I just wanted it a little more than she did, and in the third set, I really put my mind to it." 
The Irish went into the dou­bles needing only one win to take the match. As it turned out, the Irish were helpless against Tennessee's doubles, losing all three contests and dropping the match in heartbreaking fashion. 
At first doubles, Ann 
Bradshaw and Harris fell to Wilson and Kagawa 6-0, 6-1. Tholen and Kristy Doran, at third doubles, also lost big, dropping a 6-2, 6-0 match to Emily Fisher and Juels. The Irish still had hope, though, at second doubles. Eniko Bende and Faustmann dropped the first set to Moringiello and McMillen 6-3, but were starting to come alive in the second set. However, the 13th-ranked doubles team in the land proved to be too much for the Irish tandem, and came away with a 6-4 second-set win to seal the match for Tennessee. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback said, "Our doubles haven't been really good all fall. We don't like losing the match, but now we know what we have to work on. We were trying to find a couple teams that could play together, but we'll be fme for the spring." 
Added Vitale, "I think as a team, especially in singles, we played well. A few lucky breaks and we could have won the match in singles alone. It was unfortunate that things worked out this way, but I think we did gain a lot of confidence from this. We'll be ready for the spring." 



Graduating MBA Students Interested in Investment Sales 
Kidder, Peabody, a subsidiary of GE, has been serving the investment needs of high net worth individuals and organizations for over 125 years. 
If you are entrepreneurial with sales ability and interpersonal skills, we have career opportunities in many of our 40 offices in the U.S. 
Tuesday, November 12, 1991 University Club Upper Lounge 6:00 PM 
Presentation at 6:00 PM Reception to Follow 

Kidder,Peabody 
©KIDDER. PEABODY & CO. INCORPORATED. FOUNDED 1865. MEMBER SIPC ASUBSIDIARY OF GE 

~~---~~-~-~ 

Monday, November 11, 1991 The Observer 
Irish swim teams victorious over Western Ontario 
By MIKE SCRUDATO  "We carne out strong right  
Sports Writer  from the beginning," Bohdan  
said, "and we were able to  
Over the weekend, the  cruise from there."  
Notre Dame men's and  Overall, the Irish women  
women's swimming teams  took nine first places in the  
renewed a friendly  eleven events. The men's  
international rivalry.  team did not have it as easy.  
Both teams posted victories  After eight events, the Irish  
over Canada's Western  had a slim 78-72 lead, with  
Ontario Univllrsity on Friday  each team having taken first  
night at the Rolfs Aquatic  in four events. From there,  
Cnnter. Last sllason, thll  the Irish went on to win two  
tnams met at Western  of the last three events.  
Ontario.  In the 500-yard freestyle,  
The women's team coastlld  Mike Keeley and James Doran  
to a rlllatively llasy 139-64  took first and second respec­ 
victory, while the men's squad  tively to increase the lead to  
had a much tougher time in  92-77.  
its 114-91 win.  Keeley, one of this year's  
"Western Ontario swam  talented freshmen, had a  
Willi, and they gave us a  fantastic meet. In addition to  
closllr meet than we  his win in the 500, he finished  
expected," Irish breaststroker  first in the 200-yard freestyle  
Bruee Emery said.  and second in the 200-yard  
The women dominated the  butterfly.  
meet from the start as they  
took first and second in the  Western Ontario still had a  
400-yard medley relay, and  ehance to win the meet going  
then Tanya Williams, Kristen  into the final event, the 400­ 
lleath and Susan Bohdan  yard freestyle. However, the  
went 1-2-3 in thll 1000-yard  Irish placed first and second  
freestyle to give the Irish a  to seal the men's first dual  
31-5 lead after two events.  meet victory of the season.  

FSU stays #1 · Irish plummet 
By JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer 
In suffering their second loss or the season, the Notre Dame football team plummeted to 12th in the National Collegiate Sportswriter's Poll, while Tennessee cracked the top 10. 
Notre Dame's opponent next week, Penn State, stayed at number 9 despite a 47-7 thrashing of Maryland. 
California took advantage of ND's loss, bounding over Penn State into sixth with a 27-14 win over Oregon State. 
The top four contenders for the national title, Florida State, Washington, Miami and Michigan, remained static with decisive wins this week, while the Florida Gators assumed the vacated fifth slot. 
Georgia, UCLA, Indiana, and Arkansas surrendered the bot­tom four spots in poll, while Virginia, Stanford, Illinois, and Brigham Young are newcom­ers. 
on its next possession, as Kelly 
Poa. Noxl me 

(1) 620 11/16 vs. Miami 
(2) 
592 11116 al Oregon Slate (3) 8·0 576 11116 al Florida State (4) 9·1 551 11116allllinois (6) 8-1 623 11116 vs. Kentucky 

(9) 
CaiHornia 8·1 477 11116 vs. Arizona Stale 

(7) 
Alabama 8·1 466 11116 al Meflllhis State 

(8) 
Pemsw• 8·2 442 11116 vs. Notre Dame 


9. 
(10) Iowa 8·1 422 11116 al Northweslern 

10. 
(13) Tenneuee 8·2 399 11116 vs. Mississippi 

11. 
(11) Nebraska 7·1-1 372 11116 vs. Iowa Stale 

12. 
(5) Notre Dame 8·2 353 11116 at Penn Stale 

13. 
(12) Texas A&M 6·1 330 11116 vs. Arkansas 

14. 
(14) Clemson 6·1·1 289 11/16 vs. Maryland 

15. 
(17) Syracuoe 7·2 284 11116 vs. Boston College 

16. 
(15) East Carolina 8·1 264 11116 at Virginia Tech 

17. 
(16) Colorado 6·2·1 246 11116 vs. Kansas 

18. 
(19) Ohio State 7·2 204 11116 vs. Indiana 

19. 
(20) Oklahoma 7·2 184 11116 va. Oklahoma Stale 

20. 
(21) Baylor 1·2 149 11116 vs. Texas Tech 

21. 
(-) Virginia 7·2·1 123 11123 vs. Virginia Tech 

22. 
(16) N.C. Stale 7·2 62 11116 at Duke 


3t.\1 

23. 
(-) Sblnford 6·3 55 11116 al Washinglon State 

24. 
(-) Illinois 6·3 47 11116 vs. Michigan 

25. 
(-) Brigham Young 7·3 35 11116 at San Diego State 


4 

Others receiving votes: Bowling Green 22, Georgia 20. UCLA 20, Air Force 10, Fresno State 10, Tulsa 10, San Diego Stale 5, lndlena 4. Arkansao 3, TCU 3, Cornell 2, Kansas State 2. LSU 2, Houston 1. Nevada 1. Pittsburgh 1. 
Bold lndlcetae NO opponent 

Schools participa1ing: Alabama. Arizona State. Ball Slate. Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia. Cornell. Duke, Indiana. Kansas, Miami. Michigan, Nebraska. North Carolina State, Notre Dame, Oregon. Oregon Slate, Penn Slate, Purdue. Southern Cal, Syracuse. Texas. Virginia, Wesl Virginia. Wisconsin. 
room a as squan to
Upset 
continued from page 20 
Typical of the Irish day was the one-two-three-punt routine which Notre Dame popularized in the seeond half. 
Dale Carter began running with the ball before he had control of it, and promptly fumbled it away at the Vols' 46 yard line. The Irish were opportunistic (untypieal of the season), and marched 46 yards in 1:57 to cash in on the game's first big play. 
The second big play was not long in coming, as Carter took thn ensuing kickoff 62 yards to the Notre Dame 31 yard line. 

Tennessee quarterback Andy Kelly, who would become the Vols' all-time leading yardage man by day's end, badly over­threw wing back J.J. McCleskey in the left flat. 
Kelly's second pass was sheer disaster, as sophomore cornerback Tom Carter leapt in front of Vol split end Carl Pickens and raced 79 yards for a touchdown. 
"That was a bonehead play on my part," said Kelly. "I tried to force it. It's getting a bit old for interceptions like that. I should have thrown it three rows deep and gone on to the next play." 
Tennessee was forced to punt threw incomplete to a wide­hurricane, scoring on its second put the pesky Vols away with open McCleskey on third down. possession to pull to within 31-6:40 remaining. 
The Irish again cashed in, 21. In another big play, Dale driving 94 yards in 11 plays to Notre Dame, who danced its Carter intercepted Mirer's un­grab a lightning-quick 21-0 favorite one-two-three-punt derthrown offering for Tony advantage at the close of the step on its first possession, Smith, giving Tennessee first­first quarter. managed a field goal on its sec­and-ten at the Irish 45. 
Yet the tide of the game took ond possession to go ahead 34-Three plays later, Notre Dame monumental turn with time 21. stood at the wrong end of a 35­running out in the first half and Two possessions later, yet 34lead. Notre Dame up 31-7. Bettis another big play occured, as The backbreaking play was a bowled his way to the Vol four, Rod Smith was whistled by SEC timely call on second-and-three, and the Irish stood on the verge sideline judge Bob Lee for pass as Kelly hit tailback Aaron of breaking the game wide interference while covering Carl Hayden on a screen pass to the open. Yet on the next play, fate Pickens just five yards from the left side. The Irish were caught struck Notre Dame down. Irish end zone. with their pants down, as 
The handoff from Mirer to Kelly's pass was toward the Tennessee anticipated the Brooks was muffed, and the middle of the field, and Smith, coming blitz perfectly and scampering Mirer came down who had beaten Pickens snapped Notre Dame's spine. with a fatal case of tunnel vi­downfield, reacted to the ball Notre Dame got the ball back
~~--------------------~ 
sion. Mirer ran for his life in an and broke to the inside. Yet with 3:57 remaining and a final attempt to find an open re­Pickens continued running and chance for victory. ceiver. leveled Smith. Smith was Starting at his own 25, Mirer 
Why Mirer would want to find flagged for interference and the led the Irish down to the an open receiver on second­Volunteers received a gift­Volunteer 16 before the drive and-goal from the five may be wrapped score to pull within stalled. Bettis slipped for a one­debated until the Irish have 34-28. yard loss on first-and-ten, and 
returned home from the "It's just one of those things Mirer underthrew Hay Griggs that happens," said Smith. "It's on second down. Mirer kept the 
Join Chi..Chi's lor Monday Night Football 
and be treated with a free taco bar with 
Anonymous Bowl in December. 

Yet the junior quarterback was what keeps the game of football ball on a draw play, scrambling 
the purchase ol a drink. Also don't miss 
dragged down by right end alive, keeps your intensity for seven yards on third down high." and setting up fourth-and-three
your chance to compete nationwide In QBI 
Charles Smith for a ten yard

t-----------....;___________.::....:..J1 1 loss. "I think the end of the first at the ten. 

;-B k C'DA R • C
eC er r L-1. eVleW OUrSe 
Invites you to attend apresentation on 
"H0wto prepare for 
the CPA Exam'' 
Monday, November 11th, 1991 LaFortune Center -Dooley Room 6:00pm 
Pizza and Pop will be served Drawing for a $50.00 Gift Certificate from the Notre Dame Book Store For further info, call: 
Z77·4366 
On third-and-goal from the half had a lot to do with the out­With Hentrich out, sophomore 15, Mirer threw behind a slid-come-the blocked field goal walk-on Rob Leonard was ing Tony Smith at the goal line. gave the momentum to called on to attempt the game­Then Hentrich lined up for the Tennessee," said Demetrius winning field goal. Yet attempt with Jim Sexton DuBose. "They didn't seem like Tennessee's Jeremy Lincoln 
a different team in the second came in from the left side un­
holding, and the lOOth­

consecutive sellout crowd of half, we still had command, touched by an Irish blocker, and 59,075 bantered in anticipation except for a couple of big plays actually dove past the ball. of a swollen halftime lead. that we gave up, and the pass Yet the ball caught Lincoln's 
Yet Volunteers-seemingly interference call that was not backside on its way up, and was dozens of them-swarmed pass interference. deflected wide in what proved through the porous Irish line "Overall we played an to be the biggest play of the day. and blocked Hentrich's attempt. outstanding game. It was the "I never thought in a million The Irish line stood in disbelief, luck of the draw and we ended years that I would have a while Hentrich and a host of up on the wrong side of the chance to kick in a crucial Vols struggled to recover the draw. It definitely resembled situation, let alone a big game bouncing ball. last year's games with Penn like this," said Leonard, who 
Cornerback Floyd Miley State and Stanford. It's tough to stared into the distance as if recovered the block for lose, it doesn't matter when and numb. "The snap came back, it Tennessee, racing 85 yards to how. We have to deal with it was a good snap, and Jim the end zone. The block was a and go on." Sexton got the hold down fine, ten-point reversal, as Notre Notre Dame took over at its and I hit the ball straight. I Dame was denied three points own 20, with 9:03 remaining looked like it was going down and the Volunteers picked up and a six-point lead. In yet the middle, but a man from the seven. another exercise in futility, the outside deflected it. 
"Tennessee played a great Irish went one-two-three-punt. game coming back," said senior On their next possession, "I really didn't expect it to safety Rod Smith. "They looked Tennessee failed to convert on come down to a last second ..... ready to fold but then they got fourth-and-nine from the Irish kick. Craig was on the sidelines the blocked field goal. That put 25. boosting my confidence. the wind back in their sails." Mirer and the offense, Hopefully I will get a chance to 
Tennessee came out of the however, could not capitalize, redeem myself." 

page 16 

The Observer Monday, November 11, 1991 
Breen-Phillips to face Lewis 
Irish netter for 1-H championship reaches finals 
Special to the Observer 

By ELAINE J.C. DEBASSIGE back Bethany Riddle regrouped Sports Writer and scampered down the side­line for a 65-yard touchdown. Representing the Irish at 
Breen-Phillips and Lewis Gail Carey caught a Riddle pass the Rolex Midwest Men's showed that championship for the two point conversion. Tennis Championships in teams cannot be based on Both defenses stiffened up, Madison, Wisconsin, Andy tournament seedings alone. stopping. potential scoring Zurcher advanced to the The Blitz and the Chickens will drives, and the game went into finals before falling 4-6, 7-6, march their way into Notre the second halfwith P.W. up by 6-2 to Dan Kronauge of Ball Dame Stadium next Sunday at a eight. State. Both Zurcher and time TBA. This year's cham­B.P. finally scored, on a pitch Kronauge qualified for the pionship game will be a re­to Michelle Hurst, who ran 65-Rolex National Indoors this match of the 1988 game, in yards into the endzone. coming February. which Lewis emerged victori-However, P.W.'s defense sacked Notre Dame's Will Forsyth ous. the quarterback to blow the reached the semifinals 
Lewis 19, P.E. 0 conversion play. before losing to Kronauge 6­
The Lewis Chickens pulled all A series of exchanges wound 3, 6-2. facets of the game together in a the clock down to eight sec­In the quarterfinals, dominating 19-0 shutout of P.E. onds, and the Blitz had the ball Forsyth beat Klas 
In the first half Lewis jumped on the P.W. 12-yard line. Hurst Bergstrom of Iowa 6-4, 7-6 out to a 13-0 lead. The first came out to nail the 22-yard while Zurcher defeated score came on a 40-yard run by field goal as time expired to put Scott Micus of Purdue, 6-3, senior Kristen Sadie and Julie the Blitz in a position to defend 6-2. Fleck was successful on the their title. In doubles, Forsyth and conversion. The field goal was marred by Zurcher reached the semis 
The Pyros got the ball and a controversy, however. Breen­before losing 4-6, 6-3, 7-5 to moved down the field until Jeni Phillips had too many players Joey Deer and Brian Nelson Schellenberger intercepted a on the field for the field goal of Wisconsin. Along the way, pass, running it back 30 yards attempt, and, amidst confusion, the Irish tandem defeated to put another six points on the the referee determined that the Roger Anderson and Dean board. play would stand, giving B.P the Hlushko of Minnesota 6-1, 
In their upset over Seigfried, victory despite the protests of 6-2 in the quarterfinals. 
P.E. lost the services of Amy the Plaid Wave. 

Nocero and Nina Delorenzo. With their absences, the Pyro defense never seemed to fmd a rhythm against Lewis. On a muddy field, P.E. could not get its offense moving as usual. 
Lewis' offense scored again in the second half on a 60-yard pass play from Kristin Kirwin to Fleck. The Chickens also got interceptions from senior Jill Beth Hayes and sophomore Tracy Cote to seal the victory. 
Lewis coach Mike Morelli said, "Everybody played consis­tent," in crediting a unified Lewis team for their second upset in this year's playoffs. 
Breen-Phillips 9, P.W. 8 

In a defensive battle, the Blitz edged out P.W. 9-8 to earn a trip to the fmals. 
The Plaid Wave led the game 8-0 going into the second half. The touchdown came off a bro­ken play, from which quarter-
A GREAT WEEK OF FILMS AT THE SNITE  
MON Nov. 11 LAST TANGO IN PARIS MARLON BANDO-7:00 INVASION OF THE BEE GIRLS Worst film of the semester! -9:30  
TUE Nov .12 YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE JAMES BOND-7:00 NOTORIOUS ALFRED HITCHCOCK-9:15  
FRI,SAT Nov.l5,16 7:15,9:45 MADONNA: TRUTH OR DARE  

SEMINAR ON BUSINESS FACULTV CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS, SENIORS AND JUNIORS IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 

CoUBOB OP BuSINBSs ADMINISTRATION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NoTRB DAMB,. INDIANA •6556 

ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
What's involved in becoming a business professor? What are the academic qualifications and requirements? How long does it take? How much does it cost? Are scholarships available? Other financial help? What are the starting salaries and trends? What are the career satisfactions from teaching, 
research, and service? How much control over your life do you have? If I am interested, what are the next steps to take? 
I invite you to join the College's faculty and other interested students for brief faculty presentations and a panel discussion. I hope to see you there. This meeting just might make you consider an entirely different career! Please join us. 
Dean John G. Keane 
TUESDAY,. NOVEMBER 12,4:15 PM ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 

The Observer page 17
Monday, November 11, 1991 
Willie Clark's helmet. Greg but now the rush was after him. however, on the Volunteer 3, the game-winning drive. On a Davis recovered the ball and Mirer was trapped, and was and Holtz elected for a field second and three play, Kelly hit
Irish 
took it to the Irish 41. An inter­sacked for a 10-yard loss. It goal. Hentrich made the 20-Aaron Hayden on a screen that ference call on a pass intended was now third and goal from yard chip shot. extending the allowed Hayden to scamper into
continued from page 20 
for Tony Smith put the Irish in the 15. Mirer then missed Tony lead to 34-21. The ensuing the end zone untouched. Thethe right corner of the endzone. 
Tennessee territory. The Irish Smith, forcing a field goal from kickoff would remJure Vols had come back to take the
lie outran the pursuit, and 
then pounded out the remaining the 15. The Vols got excellent Hentrich's leg, and he would be lead 35-34. 
found the endzone, giving Notre 
36 yards on the ground, with penetration, and blocked the done for the game. With 3:5 7 left, the Irish of­Dame an unexpected 21-0 lead. 
Jerome Bettis scoring his 17th kick. There was a scramble for Notre Dame got the ball back, fense awoke and mounted theirKelly and his Volunteers ral­
touchdown of the season on a the ball, and suddenly Floyd as Demetrius DuBose blindsided comeback. Beginning from the
lied on their next drive. Kelly 
two-yard run over right tackle. Miley emerged form the pack Kelly on a blitz that forced a 25, Mirer engineered the come­
hit his tight end Reeves un­
This gave the Irish their biggest with the ball. He headed down fumble. Devon McDonald back. The Irish quarterback hitderneath twice for 9-yards, and lead of the game, and what the right sideline, but cut it all recovered it at the Irish 31, but short gaining passes and ran itcontinued to pick apart the de­seemed to be an insurmount­the way across the field for an the Irish offense sputtered, and down to the Tennessee 16. With fense with short gainers, driv­able 31-7 lead. 85-yard score. was forced to punt after a quick a third and 11, Mirer ran the
ing to the Notre Dame 23. On Tennessee got their break in a This was the turning point of three downs. Mter a Tennessee quarterback draw for 11 yardsthird and eight from the Irish 
very strange fashion. In what the game, as the Volunteers got series that was stopped, the to the Tennessee 9. The Irish let 
21, Kelly found wide receiver 
looked like disaster, came a some enthusiasm and momen­Irish took over at their own ten. the clock run and called timeout 
Cory Fleming in the right 
blessing. On fourth and one, a tum that carried over to the Again, the Irish failed to make a with four seconds left. 
corner of the end zone. Fleming 
falling Kelly pitched the ball to second half. It also marked the first down and were forced to With Hentrich out, Robextended all of his six-foot three running back James Stewart injury to Craig Hentrich, which punt. Leonard, a walk on kicker from 
frame to grab the pass, and 
who was smothered by would turn out to be so critical. Tennessee would capitalize Decatur, Georgia, was calledcome down in the end zone. 
Demetrius DuBose for a two­The second half saw the this time, as they scored upon to kick the game winningJoey Chapman kicked the ball yard loss. emergence of the Dr. Jekyll quickly. In a drive of 31 sec­27 -yard field goal. On a lowto a deep Willie Clark, who took With 1:04 left in the half, Irish. The same dormant of­onds, the Vols marched 45 snap that Sexton had troublethe kick up the right sideline to Notre Dame took over, looking fense that came out for the yards for the touchdown, as handling, Leonard hit the ball.
the Notre Dame 40. After two 
to widen the margin. Rod Penn State and Stanford games running back Aaron Hayden Jeremy Lincoln rushed in fromruns for one yard, Mirer found Culver took the handoff and last year, reappeared for the crashed over from the four to the outside, and leaped for the
Lake Dawson for 14-yards. 
rocketed left for a 33-yard gain, final thirty minutes. close the gap to 34-28. ball. The ball nicked the out­Mirer then optioned and threw getting to the Tennessee 9 yard After trading four-down With 9:03 left in the contest, stretched Lincoln in the rear
his way to the Tennessee six, 
line. Bettis then took it to the series, Tennessee struck for a Notre Dame needed to make end, and fluttered wide right,
where the drive stalled. 
five, as Notre Dame called time score on an Andy Kelly four­some first downs to preserve making the final 35-34 in favor
llentrich kicked the 24-yard 
out with 51 seconds to go. yard pass to Reeves. This drew the victory. Mter three straight of the Volunteers. 
finld goal, and made it a 24-7 The ensuing three plays the Vols to within 10. incomplete passes, the punt "The snap came back, it waslead. 
turned out to be the turning It looked like Notre Dame team again was called upon a good snap, and Jim Sexton got THnnessee gave Notre Dame point of the game. Mirer rolle,d might strike back, as Mirer hit again. the hold down fine, and I hit the 
anothHr break, when Cory 
left, and looked for a receiver. Bettis over the middle for a 25-Tennessee took over at the ball straight," said aFleming fumbled on a hit from 
He stopped, looked some more, yard gain. The drive stalled, Notre Dame 47, with 8:40 left in disappointed Leonard. Mit the game. Kelly, confronted looked like it was going down with a fourth and nine at the the middle, but a man from the Irish 25, tried to hit Carl outside got a hand on it and de­Pickens in the end zone. Jeff flected it." Burris knocked the ball away, giving the Irish a chance to put This marks the second the game away. straight year that the Irish have 
Still the Irish ·could not man­dropped their last home game, age a first down. On a third and with Penn State defeating the 12 from the Irish 24, Mirer was Irish 24-21 last year. The Irish intercepted by Dale Carter on hope to make amends next an underthrown ball intended week when they take on the for Tony Smith. Nittany Lions. The question is, 
The Vols took over on the which team will show up, Jekyll Irish 45, and Kelly engineered or Hyde? 

Use It For Instant Cash • Present it like a credit card at 
• Access your checking or point of purchase. savings account at ATMs • Purchases deducted from throughout the world. your checking account. 
• Detailed description of each
Use It Instead of 

purchase on your monthly 
Writing a Check 

checking statement. 
• Use at merchants where VISA® is accepted, worldwide. 
Stop in at any Norwest Bank Office to talk to us about an Instant Cash & Check Card. 
Come to expect the best.
,,.,, 

IIOIIW..r' BANKS South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
''"' 

© 19lll Norwcst Bank Indiana, N.A. Equal Opportunity Lender Member FDIC 
Reduce. Reuse. Recycle. 
l..I!'coming Events 
MONDAY.NOVEMBER11 
J. RONALD ENGEL Professor of Social Ethics, Meadville/Lombard School of Divinity, Univ. of Chicago 
"THE SEARCH FOR A DEMOCRATIC ENVIRONMENTAL 
ETHIC" 
Cosponsored with the Department of Economics, the Science, Technology and Values Program. and the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government 
4:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
TUESDAY.NOVEMBER12 HAIM GORDON 
Kroc Institute Visiting Faculty Fellow and 
Professor, Department of Education, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel 
"THE GAZA STRIP: 
PROBLEMS & PROSPECTS" 
4:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
INSTITUTE FOR Ill INTERNATIONAl
111111 ~N~;;;~~l:: 

page 18 The Observer 
Monday, November 11 , 1991 

Women's hoops loses exhibition opener, 89-82
I 
I 
By RENE FERRAN I Associate Sports Editor 
I 
Exhibition games are a time to work out the kinks in the system before the games really count. 
Which is a good thing for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, because in its 89-82 loss to Athletes in Action Friday night, many kinks were evident. 
Two freshmen, Michelle Marciniak and Audrey Gomez, made their debuts in Irish uni­forms, while a third, Letitia Bowen, sat out the game with a thigh bruise. 
Add junior Dionne Smith, playing her first game after two years of rehabilitation for a knee injury, and the fact that senior Comalita Haysbert and junior Majenica Rupe were re­turning after missing all of the second half of last season, and this was a Notre Dame team still introducing themselves to one another after only three­and-a-half weeks of practice. 
"We haven't figured each other out yet," said Gomez, who played 38 minutes, scoring 12 points and adding eight assists in the absence of junior Coquese Washington (knee in­jury). "We're working on com-· ing together on offense, feeling each other out and learning what we're going to do next." 
"I think our inexperience showed more than anything," added Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "Audrey handled her­self well for a freshman. I was very happy with how she ran the offense, but we needed to execute a little bit better, and that's something that'll come with time." 
The Irish came out nervous in the first half, turning the ball over three of their first six pos­sessions as Athletes in Action built an early 14-7 lead, but Notre Dame climbed back to tie the game at 18. 
But then the Irish couldn't buy a basket, going five-and-a­half minutes without scoring a single point. AlA took advan­tage, opening up a nine-point lead, 28-19, before settling on a 38-29 halftime edge. 
Notre Dame shot only 36 per­cent in the first half (12-33) and turned the ball over 14 times-10 by the two freshmen guards, Gomez and Marciniak. But McGraw was quick to de­flect any criticism away from her two newcomers. 
"The key to the game for us was not having Coquese," McGraw pointed out. "Coquese could have settled us down early, and we wouldn't have gotten into such a big hole." 
Marciniak especially dis­played a case of first-game jit­ters, hitting only 6-of-21 shots from the field, missing all eight of her three-point attempts and committing eight turnovers. But the Parade and Gatorade Player of the Year also gave a hint of what was to come for Irish fans, making several flashy drives to the basket and collecting four steals on defense. 
Athletes in Action didn't look like world-beaters in the first half either. Playing in its sixth game in seven nights, AlA hit only 43 percent in the first 20 minutes and turned the ball over nine times. 
"All of our travel caught up 
•Sportsbrlefs 
are accepted In writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Student 
basketball split ticket packages are still available at the J.A.C.C. ticket office. Catch seven games for only $30. For more information, call 239-7356. 

•Football 
equipment return will be this Wednesday and Thursday from 6 to 9 each night. Bring equipment to gate nine of the stadium. Remember, which ever team brings back their equipment first gets first pick next year. 


CDr,ur•cz roURS•LF1 
CLIMB MT . SOUTH BEND 
S1'AI.RHAS7'l:R COH1'ES'1' 
NOV 13-,_C 10 
PRIZl!:S-AWARDED 

roa _,.. ID'Oaii&'I'IOII &liD LOG FOIOIS CDCK ~ IKKJII'I'A.I. DI8PL&.Y8 IW 'I'D ri'l'DSS 
or 'I'D JtOCDK .um ace, oa 'I'D uca.oa'ra orrie& 
with us tonight," said Athletes in Action coach Marcia Burton. "We came out very lethargic, and you could see it in our play." 
But in the second half, Jennifer Azzi and Susan Anderson picked up a tired AlA team and carried it on their shoulders. They combined for 33 second-half points, including all 16 points during a stretch late in the game when Athletes In Action broke the game open. 
After Marciniak drove the lane for an easy basket to cut the AlA lead to 65-61, Azzi came back down and buried a three from the right wing to build the margin !back to seven. 
And when Gomez's free throw brought Notre Dame back within four, 70-66, Azzi hit an­other three-pointer from the same spot to spark an 11-1 run that gave AlA an 81-67 lead with under two minutes remaining. 
"Jennifer Azzi is a great player," said McGraw of the 1989-90 Naismith college player of the year. "We had a lot of trouble with her. 
For the Irish, senior Margaret Nowlin led with 18 points, while sophomore Sherri Orlosky added 16 and Marciniak 13. AlA's Anderson led all scorers with 32 points, with Azzi adding 23. 
But these statistics, like those for next Saturday's game against the Australian Olympic team, won't count once the sea­son is over. 
Hopefully, though, the lessons gained will. 
"I thought they (Notre Dame) 
looked real good tonight," con­cluded Burton. "They have some quick guards that can drive to the basket very well. They have lots to look forward to this season." 

Irish tragedy has few bright spots, much disappointment 
By DAVE DIETEMAN AND 
ANTHONY KING Sports Writers 

In a day of ups and downs for the Irish, there were several historical ups. 
Saturday was Notre Dame's 12th straight game without allowing a touchdown in the first quarter. The thirty-one points scored by the Irish in the first two quarters of the Tennessee game were also the most points scored by Notre Dame in a first half this season. 
Tom Carter's interception return for a touchdown was his third steal of the season, and the tenth longest interception return in Irish history. It was the longest since Dave Duerson had an 88-yard return against Miami in 1981. 
Saturday was also the first game this season in which Notre Dame had given up two passing touchdowns. 
In the strange but true cate­gory, the referee who threw the pass interference flag on Rod Smith in the fourth quarter was from the SEC. 
The officiating crew was composed of four officials from the Big East and three from the SEC. 
The post-game scene in the Notre Dame locker room was one of disbelief, disappoint­ment, and disgust. 
"I'd like to have seen us running so well in the second half," said senior tailback Tony Brooks, visibly upset. "In the second half they re-did some stuff. We felt like we wanted to open the running game up a little bit, and I thought that we could have played better as a team in the last couple minutes. On offense, we just choked a little bit toward the end. We just had a let down and they capitalized on it. 
"I can't see anything positive about losing this late in the year," continued Brooks. "We still should get a bowl bid, we have lots of stuff to accomplish, but to lose my last game here, I have nothing to say." 
Junior linebacker Demetrius DuBose tried to find a silver lining in the black cloud now hanging over Notre Dame's season. 
"The bowl picture is disap­pointing for us, the last game at home is tough to lose," said DuBose. "I hope that we will still play in a good bowl and play tough and finish up a good season." 
Coach Lou Holtz expressed his disappointment with the stunning loss. "It's the most disappointing loss I've ever had in my life," said a shocked Holtz. 
"I have know idea how we come back from here." 
As for the bowls, Holtz was apathetic. "I have know idea nor.do I care," stated Holtz. 
Johnny Majors explained that the screen pass for the winning touchdown was the first screen of the day for the Vols. "I had no idea (that they would be in a safety blitz)," explained Majors. "Had they been in a man under we probably would have been stuffed. They just happened to be in a safety blitz." 

WE ARE MOVING TO 
REMINGTON COURT 
• 
Washers & Dryers 

• 
Microwaves 

• 
Security Alarms 

• 
Mini Blinds 

• 
Club House Pool & Hot Tub 



~========~~~~~~~====~I• Serene lakes 

JThJtP[p~ 8ll~ 
Annie Cahill 
1.1./1.0/91. 

Love, L, J & K 
• 
Patios Ideal For Entertaining 

• 
Senior Citizens Discount 

• 
Corporate Units Available 

• 
We Furnish Your Moving Van 




page 19
The Observer

Monday, November 11,1991 

TIE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
11•11 


"Sure. The place you're lookin' for Is straight over them hills -course, that's as the crow flies, not as the 

chicken walks. Ha ha ha ha." 
CROSSWORD 

DOWN 

1 Offend 2 Philippine hardwood 
tree 3 Portal 4 Love, !tal ian 
style5 Doctor 6 Sault -Marie 7 Neville, to his 
friends (2 wds.)8 Mr. Heep g Friendly 
10 Theater handouts 
11 Blackjack player's
words 12 Sad 13 Mentally sound 21 "Be quieti"23 Be libelous 25 Prefix: eight26 Benchley thriller 27 Dismounted 2B Ivy League school 32 Repetition35 One of the Beatles 36 Opposite of fire 37 Once more 39 Scale 40 Gymnastics equip­
ment 41 Lanchester and 
Maxwell 
46 Type of calculator 
48 Barked like a puppy
50 Spirals
51 Actress Celeste,and family 52 Run to Gretna Green 53 Dawdle 54 Circus performer56 Jockey's holding57 Gratify 58 Soissons summers 61 Demolition need 
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8715 
ACROSS 

1 "Call Me -" 42 Iron-carbon alloy 6 Counterfeit coin 43 -canto 10 Certain college 44 Inevitable graduates 45 Inlet 14 "-to bury 47-street 
Caesar •.. " 15 Shredded 16 Mfl an money
17 Genesis event 4g Actor Ayres18 The Emerald Isle 50 Hotel employee 1g "Do you have change 54 Pigskin
for -?" 55 Few and far 
20 -whee 1 between 22 Li'l Abner's girl 59 Leslie Caron movie 24 Recording milieu 60 Winter need 
(2 wds.) 62 Fold in cloth 26 First Chief Justice 63 -Lincoln, first 29 "That hurts I" movie Tarzan 30 Hilo neckwear 64 -arms 
31 Jai -65 Creme de la creme 33 Depot (abbr.) 66 Organization (abbr.) 34 -Centauri 67 Dispatched38 Former basketball 68 Units of force 
great (2 wds.) 
CAMPUS 

MONDAY  
7 p.m. Film, Auditorium.  "Last Tango in  Paradise."  Annenberg  
9:30 p.m. Film, Auditorium.  "Invasion of Bee Girls."  Annenberg  

LECTURES 
MONDAY 

4:00 p.m. Lecture, "The Search for a Democratic Environmental Ethic," J. Ronald Engel, Meadville/Lombard School of Divinity, University of Chicago. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Admission free. 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Tracking the Effects of Intruder States ln Nuclei," L.L. Riedinger, University of Tennessee. Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Admission free. 
7:30 p.m. Nieuwland Sesquicentennial Lecture, "AIDS: Considerations for the 1990s," Anthony S. Fauci, M.D., director, Office of AIDS Research, National Institutes of Health. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Admission free. 
TUESDAY 

12:10 to 12:55 p.m. Snite Museum curator of ethnographic art Douglas E. Bradley will speak about the exhibition, "White Swan: Crow Indian Warrior and Painter." The exhibition is on view through December 15, 1991. The Snite Museum of Art, O'Shaughnessy Galleries West. 
12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Parties and Party Systems in Latin America: Tentative Conclusions," Scott Mainwaring, senior fellow and associate professor of government and international studies at the University of Notre Dame and Timothy Scully, senior fellow and assistant professor of government and international studies at the University of Notre Dame. Room C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
MENU 
NOTRE DAME 
Smoked Thuringer 
Batter Fried Pollack 
Pasta Primavera Mozzarella 


SM::c·. 
..,. ,. :b'·····l~ ..,... ·
,n~ui,,. ,,o...
D......... ·v~ -:_.:. -~---;:·; ..../ ...:.. ~:: 
F''>,,, ,, ·~ ·" · .,.. :.
a, ()~,
....:: ... · ~:. Q .. 

t:...... ,, ·,, ·· W::: · e,····k:,... e···"··n"':d:::
r·.,:e=-· .,.:::../,...e,,...

, U·,,, ~ ............, ·' .,, ............., ............., .,. ,...·.······· ,, , ., ,
:_.): ·:....·. _::.....:.. ~-..-./ .r t :..../ :....._........:....... _._........ ::.............._... 
.. B:',..)~, 1''1'. o.-~, B<,.., "r.·C\. *·h.'', £). -r:, e,
&... " .. ::: .... )ft.. ~--~:. Q:: ...:: ........: (.t y·f..· .l .·~>~-fl 

Q:: 
Nov. 15th & 16th 7p.m. Carroll Aud. $1 Sponsored. by SAB 
,...... 
I r ~ 
Sports 

page 20 Monday, November 11,19991 
Irish let one slip away against Tennessee, 35-34 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
Senior tailback Tony Brooks breaks a tackle on his way to a team-high 126 rushing yards. Brooks also had a touchdown. 
Big plays doom the Irish as Tennessee pulls off shocking win 
For the better part of two quarters, 
fifth-ranked Notre Dame looked as if  
it would handily dismantle 13th­ 
ranked Tennessee.  
The game was characterized by big  
plays, as the Volunteers and Irish  
struggled  to  capitalize  on  each  
others' miscues.  
At stake for Notre Dame was the  Dave Dieteman  
chance  to  play for the national  
championship in January. At stake  Sports Editor  
for Tennessee was a  confidence- 
 

booster in their run for the SEC title, a premier bowl game bid, and the supreme perk-beating the Irish in South Bend. 
Yet in the final home game for the Irish seniors, the men of the SEC came up with the plays that counted. 
The first Notre Dame possession would be indicative of the way the day would go. 
Tony Brooks was nailed in the backfield for a two-yard loss by left end Chris Mims, who harassed the Irish offense all afternoon. 
On second and 12, Jerome Bettis slanted to the right side for a gain of eight yards, setting up a third-and-four from the Notre Dame 26 yard line. 
Rick Mirer's third down screen pass to Bettis fell incomplete in the dirt five yards behind the fullback, however, and the Irish were forced to punt. 
see UPSET/page15 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 

New Hampshire showed why it is the tenth-ranked hockey team in the country this week­end. It was the superior team speed and the goaltending of the Wildcats that overpowered the Irish in this weekend's series, with 7-1 and 8-2 results. 
"Speed is the name of the game," commented coach Ric Schafer. "They are very fast and very skilled with the puck." 
The speed of the Wildcats led to many breakaway opportuni­ties that killed the Irish. The breakaways led to easy goals for New Hampshire, and stemmed from the lack of of­fense Notre Dame was able to generate. The Irish would gam­ble on offense, leaving the de­fense very vulnerable. 
"That happens when you take a chance offensively, and we paid on the defensive end," said Schafer. 
The first game on Friday night was a much closer contest than the score indicated. The Wildcats jumped out to a 2-0 lead after the first five minutes of the game. Irish defenseman Dan Sawyer brought Notre Dame within one, with his first goal of the year. Unfortunately, the Wildcats went on a third period rampage, scoring four goals. 
In Saturday's contest, it was the Wildcats again jumping out to an early lead. Center Joe Flanagan started the scoring on 
Explosive second half keys improbable comeback 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Yogi Berra said it best when he quipped, "it's like deja-vu all over again." One couldn't help but to wonder if they suddenly had been catapulted back into 1990, when they watched Rob Leonard's last second field goal flutter wide right. Was this 
Penn  State,  or  worse  yet  
Stanford?  No,  this  was  
Tennessee,  but  it  was  the  

hauntingly familiar story of "A Tale of Two Teams." 
The first team, or the Mr. Hyde team, showed up for the first 29 minutes of the game. The Irish received the opening kickoff, as Tennessee deferred to the second half. After a touchback, Notre Dame started out slowly on offense. After three plays, the Irish were forced to punt. Craig Hentrich hit a low short kick that return man Dale Carter fumbled. Irish special teams player Lance Johnson pounced on the ball at the Tennessee 46. 
The Notre Dame offense capi­talized quickly on the turnover. Tony Brooks rumbled up the middle for 26 yards, carrying defensive back Floyd Miley for an extra ten yards. The Irish got another first down after runs by Bettis and Culver, to get to the Tennessee nine yard line. On second and goal from the 13, Tony Brooks took the handoff. on a delay, up the middle. Brooks broke a tackle at the five, and squirmed his way into the endzone. 

Dale Carter made up for his mistake by taking the kickoff 62 yards down the right sideline, until being taken down Jeff Burris. The Volunteers were in great field position at the Notre Dame 31. On first down,Tennessee quarterback Andy Kelly threw his first pass over the head of J.J. McClesky. Kelly again dropped back on second down, and threw for All­American Carl Pickens. Pickens slipped and Irish cornerback Tom Carter stepped in front for his third interception. Carter took off down the Notre Dame sideline, and could not be caught, hitting the endzone 79 yards later. 
"I was just sitting in the flat waiting for it (the ball)," said 

a power play, by scooping in a deflection off the pads of Irish goaltender Brent Lothrop at 
7:01 in the first period. 
The breakaway led to the next two New Hampshire scores. Captain Savo Mitrovic capitalized on a deflection of Domenic Amodeo's slapshot, scoring at the 11:55 mark. Mitrovic and Amodeo teamed up again for the next goal, as Amodeo, racing down the left side, centered the puck to a streaking Mitrovic who lifted a wrist shot into the upper right corner. Another power play gave the Wildcats a 4-0 lead, as center Glenn Stewart rocketed a slap shot past Lothrop from the right point at 16:20. 
In the second period, the Irish got on the scoreboard with Matt Osiecki's first goal of the year, a shot past the glove of goaltender Jeff Levy at the 

17:15 mark to bring the Irish within three. 
That would be as close as the Irish would get, as New Hampshire scored two goals within 34 seconds to inflate the lead to 6-1. The Wildcats would get two more in the third, mak· ing it 8-1. Tim Litchard netted his first goal of the season for the Irish on a deflection over the glove of Brett Abel , making the final 8-2. 
The Irish were a disap­pointing one for 10 on power plays in Friday night's contest, as the Irish offense failed to capitalize on man-advantage situations. 
Part of the Irish offensive 
Carter. "Pickens was trying to go across the middle, and the quarterback was looking at him all the way, so I just stepped right in front of him. The quarterback probably didn't see me, and my eyes lit up when I saw that he was throwing it." 
The next Tennessee posses­sion was stalled at the Notre Dame 45 yardline. Tennessee punter Tom Hutton, along with a Notre Dame penalty, hemmed the Irish in on their own 6 yard­line. Holtz again went to his ground game, as Brooks had runs of 9 and 5 yards to get the Irish to their 20. Mirer, on sec­ond and ten, found Derek Brown over the middle for 20­yards. On the next play, Rod Culver ran over the left side, behind a smashing block from Derek Brown, for 20-yards. Brooks hit the other side, and sprinted for 15 yards, and an Irish first down. After a Bettis run, Brooks took the ball over left tackle, was tripped at the line, regained his balance. and gained 11 to the Volunteer 10. Mirer, on first and goal, kept it on the option, and sprinted for 
see IRISH/page 17 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
Sophomore walk-on kicker Rob Leonard launches the potential game-winning field goai.The kick was blocked by Tennessee's Jeremy Lincoln as time expired, giving the Vols a 35-34 victory. 
Irish hockey drops weekend series to New Hampshire 
woes can be attributed to the play of All-American goalie Jeff Levy. Levy made several out­standing saves, and was as­sisted by an excellent team-de­fensive effort. Even though the Irish outshot New Hampshire on Friday, 38-31, Levy limited them to one goal, and only al­lowed two goals the entire weekend. 
"They had goaltender and defense praised Schafer. "That ...,v,,...,..­nation we couldn't crack. you score three goals weekend, you won't win hockey games." 
Notre Dame hopes to this coming weekend with series against Kent State. time is 7:30 for both games. 



