
~~..~~t
.Q&·

server 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 52 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 12, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Government department plans no cutbacks 


Hditor's note: Recent budgetary problems within the College ofArts and Letters have caused concern about course offerings for the spring semester. 1\s students begin the IJ!\IlT registration process, The Ofnwn,er will spend the week examining the effects of the budget situation in se11eral departments within the College. 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 
Tlw government department will not cut any classes or tlmching positions this spring as a n\sult of the reeent budget prohlnms in the College of Arts and Lettnrs. but it will bn forced to scrap plans to create a new position for the 1992-93 academic year, aecording to Peri Arnold, chair. 
The $425,000 "budgetary glitch" restricts departments from creating new positions, but does allow departments to fill vaeant positions, according to Arnold. 
The government department was able to create one new po­sition this fall and also found replacements for three unfilled positions. Thus. the department does not have any positions to fill for the fall of 1992. Arnold said. 
Arnold said that he expects that the size of government classes will remain about the same in the spring semester, although he hopes that enroll­ment will decrease. 
With an average of 600 rna­jors, the government depart­ment is the largest undergrad­uate major at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Arnold. The number of majors fluctuates between fall and spring semesters, as a result of the graduation of se­niors. 
There are approximately 450 majors currently enrolled in the government department, ac­cording to Arnold. The number of majors in the department has ranged from 429 in spring of 1989 to over 600 in spring of 1990. 
The total number of majors and non-majors enrolled in government courses in the 1990-91 academic year was 2,800, he said. 
The department needs more resources if it is to continue to serve the needs of its students, 
I. t. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Dr. Anthony Fauci. director of the AIDS research office at the National Institute of Health, speaks about the recent shift of the HIV virus toward the heterosexual community yesterday at the Library auditorium. 


Soup kitchen looking for volunteers 

By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
Tho soup kitchen at tho United Mnthodist Church in downtown South Bend needs voluntenrs. according to its founder and director. Bea Moore. 
The kit<:hPn, St\rving lunch on Mondays. Wednesdays and Fridays, has been open to the hungry and the homnless for ten years. It provides hot soup, bread and desserts to people who walk in off the street in nned of a meal. 
Moor11 estimated that they serve between three and four hundred people in a given day. "We never turn people away," she said, "we just give whatever we have until the food is. gone." 
Soup is also available to those who cannot come to the church. 
They have a carry-out mission in which they send containers of soup, along with bread and sweets, to individuals and families who ask for them ahead of time. All of the food for the soup kitchen is donated by Kroeger's Supermarkets. 
People feel comfortable com­ing to the soup kitchen because it is a church. "That makes ev­eryone feel welcome," said Moore. 
The soup kitchen attracts a mixture of people, from indi­viduals out of work for the first time to families travelling through the area with no mom~ for food. ' 
"With many of the people," Moore said, "you would have no idea that they needed help. But somewhere they have run into trouble." 
Moore runs the kitchen with a staff of ten to twelve volunteers each day. The cooks arrive at 7 
a.m. 
to prepare the soup, and the other volunteers come at 10 

a.m. 
to prepare for the lunch crowd. They serve lunch to their guests from 11:30 a:m. until all the food is gone, usu­ally at about 2 p.m. 


Although the kitchen is run in the United Methodist Church, they do not try to impose any religion on the guests, accord­ing to Moore. 
Moore allows great flexibility with her volunteers. They usu­ally work one day a week, and "they can decide the times that fit best into their schedules," Moore said. 
No students are currently in­volved with the soup kitchen. Any students who are inter­ested in volunteering at the soup kitchen should contact Bea Moore at 233-9474 or 233­2307. 
according to Arnold. "In the short run, it (the hiring freeze) does hamper our ability to meet student demand for classes ... of an optimum size," he said. 
The result is clas,ses that are too large, as well as an inability to reach departmental goals, he said. The department must be committed to helping under­graduate education through smaller classes and intensive advising, while being committed to research and doctorate training, Arnold said. 
The department is equally committed to each goal, but Arnold said that resources are the key to meeting these goals. Because the department does not have these resources, the negative effects hit both under­graduate education and re­search and graduate programs. 
Arnold expressed concern that students believe the University is not concentrating enough resources on under­graduate education. 
"That's just plain not true." he said. "I don't know one col­league who isn't concerned with doing the best job they can with undergraduates." 
Commitments to rosean:h and graduate interests do not pull the department away from the concerns of the undergraduate, he added. 
Although students may face government classes that are too large, Arnold said that most majors do not have a problem registering for the courses that they need through Direct Access Registration by Telephone 
see BUDGET I page 4 
Fauci: HIV on the rise among heterosexuals 
By ANDREW RUNKLE 
News Writer 
The 1990s will mark a con­tinued shift of the HIV virus, which causes AIDS, toward the heterosexual community, ac­cording to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the AIDS research office at the National Institute of Health. 
"There is a shift in the epi­demic from gay men ... to IV (intravenous) drug users, their heterosexual partners. wives, and children," said Fauci to a packed Hesbutgh Library audi" torium yesterday. 
According to a study done in New York City, the percentage of homosexual or bisexual HIV­infected individuals has dropped from 54 percent to 37 percent from 1986 to 1990. The percentage of HIV-infected individuals who were IV drug users has increased from' 33 percent to 46 percent during 
• 
Fauci lecture I page 3 

• 
WHO report! page 5 


those years. 
"There is no such thing as a risk group. only risk behavior. Forget about characterizations of risk groups," Fauci added. 
Fauci emphasized that AIDS is an epidemic evolving in large metropolitan areas, where IV drug use is most prevalent. IV drug use has introduced AIDS to the. heterosexual community, he said. "What's tragic is that AIDS is now occurring in a group (inner-city young people ages 25-44), which over the years has received poor health care," said Fauci. This lack of proper health care will only en­courage the spread of the virus, he said. 
Fauci referred to a study performed in Baltimore on 5,000 random clinical patients, 5 percent of which were in-
see HIV I page 5 

The Observer/Peter-Jay Pultorak 

Enjoying the ride 
Colleen and Patrick Griffin, children of Captain Thomas Griffin who recently returned from Saudi Arabia, get to sit back, relax and enjoy the Veteran's Day ceremony on NO's campus yesterday. 

page2 Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
·:·.:·:·.··· .... 
INSIDE COLUMN fORECAST: 


U.S. needs family leave legislation•While most Notre Dame------­seniors are busy worrying about where they'll be next year, how many have given thought to where they'll be in ten years? Will they be married? Will they have families? • If any seniors are even Peter Loftus remotely concerned about N how difficult it will be to Asst. ews balance career __...;;E;;.;d;;.;.it;..;;o;.;..r__ maintenance with raising a family, then they should pay attention to the Family and Medical Leave bill which will be voted upon in Congress this week. Last month, the U.S. Senate passed a bill that would· guarantee workers "up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave in family emergencies," according to the Associated Press. This would mean that men and women could take this time off to care for a newborn or a sick family member, with guaranteed job security. Companies with less than a specified number of employees would be exempted from the legislation. This week, the House of Representatives will vote on both the Senate version of the bill and a weaker one that guarantees only six weeks of unpaid leave in certain situations. Either bill faces a possible veto by President Bush; he vetoed last year's version of the bill. Many opponents of the family leave bill fear that employers might be hurt by federal laws forcing them to cut into routine operations. And with the economy in its current poor condition, federal intervention might do more harm than good. But opponents of the family leave bill ignore not only complex issues surrounding American family life, but they also keep the U.S. far behind other Western industrialized nations in family leave programs. In Sweden, parents can receive 15 months paid leave when a child is born, according to an article in September's Vogue magazine. In France, women must take a partially paid leave (funded by the government) both before and after delivery for a total of 14 weeks. Germany's and Japan's maternity leave programs are identical to France's, except employers either pick up the tab (Germany), or payment is optional (Japan). Most of the above countries also offer additional optional time off with partial benefits. Sweden's generous plan is not a role model for the U.S.-their socialist government can provide many services due to high tax rates. However, the family leave plans of Germany and Japan, both of whose economies rival the U.S., should be commanding evidence that a nation can compete in the world market with such job guarantees as family leave. Opponents of family leave legislation prefer that companies voluntarily offer family leave packages. Only a small percentage currently do so, and even if most offered family leave, they would probably cut such a service as soon they ran into economic hardships. A federal guarantee would prevent this. Successfully raising a family is essential to the well-being of this country. It requires not only initiative on the part of the parents, but also guaranteed means by which to do so. It is time that President Bush, with all his rhetoric about family values, sit on his veto-happy hands and act constructively on an important domestic issue.  
Today's staff: Accent: Production: Jahnelle Harrigan Melissa Cusack Cheryl Moser Cynthia Ehrhardt Laurie Sessa Sports: Systems: Rich Kurz Pat Barth Mike Scrudato Jon Halloran News: Jason Williams Paul Pearson Graphics: Julie Barrett Brendan Regan Scoreboard: Rich Szabo The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



sun, according to a report. Costs are projected to reach

WORLD 
$140 million for the spacecrafts, named Wind and Polar, Aviation Week magazine said in a report published
Baker warns about Asian arms race 
Sunday. They are being built for use by the 17-nation•TOKYO-Secretary of State James 
International Solar Terrestrial Physics Program.
Baker today urged the major powers, Launches of the two spacecraft, scheduled for 1992 andincluding the United States, Japan, 1993, will be delayed five months to six months, theChina and the Soviet Union, to head magazine said. The scientific survey had planned to
off a nuclear arms race on the 
integrate data collected by Wind and Polar with that fromKorean peninsula. Baker, who travels several other spacecraft, and the launch delays could
to Korea on Tuesday to attend an 
effect the results. The overall program involves a total of economic meeting, noted the growing eight spacecraft being developed by the United States.
concern over reports that North 
Japan and the European Space Agency. Total costs are
Korea, one of the world's last hard-line communist 
expected to run about $2 billion, about as much as wasregimes, is moving forward with a program to develop spent for the Hubble space telescope program.
nuclear weapons. The very real threat of nuclear prolif­
eration on the Korean peninsula is now the No. 1 threat 
to security in northeast Asia, said Baker in a speech to 
the Japan Institute for International Affairs. Experts have INDIANA 
voiced concern that North Korea could be much closer to developing nuclear warheads than previously thought, as 
was Iraq before the Persian Gulf War. The North Korean Parents of 44 children honored 

government in Pyongyang has denied it is trying to •ELKHART, Ind.-For some couples, eight is enough. 
develop nuclear weapons but it also has refused to But for Clarence and Willie Toliver, 44 is just right. Their 
permit international inspection of its nuclear facilities. family is composed of four natural children, 30 foster children and 10 adopted children. The Tolivers were named the 1992 Adoptive Family of the Year by the One Fusion advance offers new hope Church One Child program ·and honored at a dinner in 
•CULHAM, England-European scientists are Indianapolis last Saturday. The family goes through claiming a major advance in nuclear fusion research about seven gallons of milk and six loaves of bread each after a dramatic experiment replicating the sun's heat, week with the 10 adopted children living in their home. but they say its use as a clean and unlimited source of He and his wife, Willie, 47, work in the laundry of an energy is still decades away. The Nov. 9 experiment at Elkhart nursing home for a combined salary of $1,500 a the Joint European Torus nuclear installation in Culham, month. The Tolivers said they decided to adopt so many 50 miles north of London, achieved fusion for two sec­kids because there are too many kids out there that don't onds and produced about 1.7 megawatts of power for have a home and parents to care for them. Their adopted nearly a second, said physicist John Maple, the project children range in age from 5 to 15. Five of them are birth spokesman. This is the first time that a significant siblings. amount of power has been obtained from controlled nu­clear fusion reactions, project director Paul-Henri Rebut said. A commercial fusion reactor remains at least 50 years away, Rebut said. Nuclear fusion, the process that CAMPUS gives the sun and stars their energy, is safer than nuclear fission, the reaction that powers today's nuclear plants. Small fire forces student evacuation 

•NOTRE DAME, Ind.-Several students were evacuated from LaFortune Student Center early Sunday morning after a small electrical fire began above a false 
NATIONAL ceiling near Irish Gardens. According to Captain Mark Esenwein of the Notre Dame Fire Department, the fire lasted only a short time and caused minimal damage to 
Costs double for two spacecrafts the ceiling tiles. The fire, which occurred at 1:55 a.m., 

•WASHINGTON-A $70 million cost overrun has may have been caused by short circuit in the wires above doubled the price of two NASA spacecraft being devel­the false ceiling, Esenwein said. oped to study the interaction between the Earth and the 
H L 
tx:xj ~ .g) ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Ass<>ciat&d Prsss 
A 30 percent chance of light snow today, becoming partly sunny in the afternoon. Highs 
near 45 and lows 
near 35. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
AIhens  e6  52  
Allanla  60  36  
Berlin  45  41  
Boston  40  35  
Chicago  38  32  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  61  40  
Denver  33  31  
Detrok  51  34  
Honolulu  85  72  
Houston  70  41  
Indianapolis  59  32  
London  52  48  
Los Angeles  83  56  
Mlarri Beach  74  53  
N9W Orleans  64  34  
N9W York  44  39  
Paris  50  45  
Phllade_,hla  46  40  
Rome  64  40  
St. Louis  39  31  
San Francisco  77  52  
Seattle  60  49  
South Bend  45  30  
Tokyo  63  52  
Washington, D.C.  48  41  

MARKET UPDATE 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1920: Baseball got its first "czar" as Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis was elected commissioner of the American and National Leagues. 

• 
In 1921 : Representatives of nine nations gathered in the nation's capital for the start of the Washington Conference for Limitation of Armaments. 

• 
In 1927: Josef Stalin became the undisputed ruler of the Soviet Union as Leon Trotsky was expelled from the Communist Party. 

•In 
1954: Ellis Island, the immigration station in New York Harbor, closed after processing more than 20 million immigrants since it opened in 1892. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
lhe Observer 
page 3 
Tuesday, November 12, 1991 



The Observer/Peter-Jay Pultorak
Touche 
A ~~mber ~f the Varsity Fencing Team demonstrates the attack positron dunng practice. 
Fauci talks about AIDS virus 
By CHRIS WERLING News Writer 
The worldwide knowledge of AIDS depends upon the funda­mental science base of im­munology, micro-biology and molecular biology used in the study of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, according to Dr. Anthony Fauci. 
The complexity of the HIV virus and the way it attacks the immune system makes it very difficult to study, said Fauci, director of the Office of AIDS Research at the National Institute of Health. 
"So if there ever was an ar­gument for the support of fun­damental, undifferentiated ba­sic research, it certainly is the AIDS epidemic," said Fauci in a lecture yesterday. 
Fauci relayed to the audience some of the most current in­formation on the HIV virus which he observed from a large clinic of HIV patients he has followed since 1981. 
The AIDS epidemic recently received national attention with Magic Johnson's confession of contracting the HIV virus. 
"He's (Johnson) probably been infected for about three years and didn't know it," Fauci said. 
An individual may have an in­fection and feel perfectly well, which Fauci explained as clini­cal latency. This is common in most people infected with acute HIV syndrome but is then fol­lowed with the slow deteriora­tion of the immune system, he said. 
Fauci also spoke about the possibilities of treating the HIV virus like any other virus. 
"Viral replication occurs very, very early and if we had the right drug, we should start treating it early," explained Fauci. "If we had a really good drug ... then it would make sense to treat someone at the first instance that the IIIV virus was recognizable." 
The drugs used to treat the HIV virus at the present time may only last two years at the most, he said. 
If an individual is not given medication for the virus, the immune system may be irre­versibly damaged by the viruses constant attack on the immune system. "Viruses are incr()dibly smart," he said. 
Fauci concluded by stating that he was not trying to design a drug for the AIDS epidemic. Instead, his role in assisting the effort is his attempt to track the development of the HIV virus. 
Music workshops come to ND this week 
Special to The Observer 
A series of three vocal music workshops, "Words on Music," will be presented Wednesday through Friday by Richard Westenburg, founder and direc­tor of the New York City-based vocal ensemble Musica Sacra, at the University of Notre Dame. 
The sessions, which ·will be held in Room 115 of Crowley Hall of Music, are free and open to the public. 
The first session, "Voices and Instruments," is at 2 p.m. Wednesday and will examine vocal chamber works with in­strumental obbligati. 
"Words and Music in Choral Singing," at 12:15 p.m. 
Thursday will include a Notre Dame Chorale performance of Dubussy's "Trois Chansons." 
Friday's 2 p.m. workshop, ti­tled "Music and Speech: Solo Repertoire," will cover recita· tive and selected lieder, art­songs and arias. 
Westenburg began Musica Sacra during the late 1960s when he was organist and choir master at Central Presbyterian Church on New York City's Park Avenue. The ensemble specialized "in music of the Baroque period and 20th cen­tury composers. 
· Westenburg was head of the choral department of the Juilliard School of Music for twelve years. In the fall of 1990 he was a visiting lecturer at Notre Dame. 
He has appeared throughout the country as a guest conduc­tor, leading such ensembles as the Houston Symphony Orchestra, the National Symphony Orchestra, the American Symphony Orchestra and the Bethlehem Bach Choir. In 1988 he made his operatic conducting debut in the first modern stage production of Handel's "Partenope," per­formed by Opera Omaha. 
Musica Sacra's recent recordings for HCA Red Seal in­clude Handel's "Messiah" and Brahms' "Songs and Romances". Most recently, Deutsch Gramophone has is­sued a recording of the group's Christmas motets and carols. 
COURSES ADDED ARCH 444 02 • •4037 D..lgn VI; 6 cr. hr1.; MWF 01:15 • 05:00 
NEW DART INFORMATION 
ARCH 444 03 • ~308 D..lgn VI; II cr. hr1.; MWF 01:15 • 05:00 DESN 498S 04 • ~309 Specl1l Studl••; v.r. cr. hr1.; Perml..lon Required 
Because of a concern over equal access to 
CHANGES 
closed courses which reopen, there will be a AL 212 15 • 10645 ch1nge lime to MW 01:15 • 02:30 
change In the way DART handles them. Instead 
ARHI 470 01 • n519 ch1nge lime to MW 02:20 · 03:35 
of reopening Immediately, closed courses
ARHI 570 01 • n524 chlnge lime to MW 02:20 · 03:35 CHEM 322L 02 • •1 0511 ch1nge d•y to W 01 :15 • 04:45 eligible to reopen (meaning that at least one LAW 513 02 • 111145 ch1nge lime to TH 03:00 · 03:50 
person has dropped) will be listed In the CLOSED COURSES Observer. After this listing appears, the courses will be opened for the next call back period.
AFAM 372 01 3048 AFAM 454 01 2997 ARHI 169 01 0735 We have also developed a contingency plan in 
ENOL 328A 01 0012 
case of computer failure or any other emergency
ENOL 340T 01 3858 
ENOL 403 01 3867 that severely disrupts registration. All ENOL 413A 01 3869 
appointment times will be moved back two days,
ENOL 415 01 3152 
from Monday to Wednesday or from Tuesday to
ENOL 415E 01 4002 ENOL 415Z 01 3871 Thursday for example. This two day move is ENOL 4168 01 3873 
necessary since appointment times are assigned
ENOL 416C 01 3874 
ENOL 420A 01 3875 so that they do not conflict with current classes ENOL 422 01 3876 and a Wednesday schedule should be very
ENOL 4238 01 3877 
similar to a Monday schedule. (The same is true
ENOL 4268 01 3256 ENOL 4288 01 3878 for Tuesday and Thursday schedules.) If ENOL 434 01 3880 
registration is delayed for more than two days,
ENOL 440A 01 1377 
ENOL 451A 01 3882 the appointments would be pushed back a ENOL 453 01 3883 corresponding length of time. The appointments
ENOL 463Z 01 3884 
times would remain the same, only the date
ENOL 471 01 3885 ENOL 472Z 01 3886 would change. If such a change ever becomes ENOL 473 01 3887 
necessary it will be published in the Observer (if
ENGL 479 01 3888 ENGL 484 01 3889 
possible) and posted at the Registrar's office and ENGL 490Z 01 3890 all departmental and college offices. ENGL 493A 01 3891 ENGL 493C 01 2979 
ENGL 4978 01 0705 Remember that you can use the DART Course ENGL 512 01 2719 
Exchange Option to attempt to register for a 
ENGL 562 01 3897 
different class without dropping one you already
ENGL 585 01 3899 GE 410 01 3043 have. The old course will be dropped only if youGSC 242 01 3773 
are successful in adding the new course. This
MSA 548 01 3805 
MSA 545 01 3803 option is useful if you have a full load, if you MSA 553 01 3804 want to try to get into a different section of a 
MUS 226 01 2024 
course, or if a course you want has a time
PHIL 248 01 2135 PHIL 265 01 0030 conflict with one you already have. For more soc 324 01 3544 
information see page 15 in the DART book. 
soc 346 01 3027 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
Veltsin retreats from his stance on Muslim enclave 

GROZNY, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­Separatists in the southern Chechen-Ingush region fired automatic weapons to celebrate the Russian legislature's refusal Monday to approve Boris Yeltsin's state of emergency in their Muslim enclave. 
Gen. Dzhokar Dudayev, formerly a bomber pilot in the Soviet air force and now presi­dent of the Chechen-Ingush re­gion, had threatened terrorist attacks on Moscow's nuclear power stations and subways if the decree was not repealed. 
The 177-4 vote Monday against Yeltsin by the usually pliant Russian lawmakers was the first major show of no con­fidence in Yeltsin since his elec­tion in June as president of the Russian Federation-a mosaic of scores of restless ethnic groups scattered among the Russian majority. 
The legislature's rebuff was likely to damage Yeltsin's au­thority, which was greatly en­hanced by his successful oppo­sition to hard-liners who tried to oust Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in August. The vote was not binding, but may force Yeltsin to withdraw his decree._ 
Yeltsin did not attend the de­bate and had no immediate comment on the resolution, which also called for negotia­tions toward a political solution. Dudayev said he was asked to take part in talks and was prepared to do so. 
Two Yeltsin allies, Russian parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov and Vice President 


SMC juniors Kelly Nagle, Joan Van Hersett, Katie Killian, left to right, review the Heath Basal reading series, which the South Bend Public School system uses for their teaching program, during their Reading Development class with their teacher, Mary Ann Traxler, standing. 
Budget 
continued from page 1 
(DART). 
Many government courses are restricted to majors only during the first two weeks of the DART period in order to allow seniors and juniors to take tlie classes that they need, he said. 
Many professors feel that the general hiring freeze is unfair, Arnold said, because the budget problems were not the result of the mishandling of money in the government department. 
The government department will offer 23 courses this spring, as well as three special studies courses; 61 sections are available. Arnold said that the average class size ranges from 80 to 100 students in the four introductory courses in the major to 50 in 400-level classes. 
Officially, 26 professors make up the teaching corps of the department; in fact, only 23 professors come into contact with undergraduates, he said. A total of 8 adjuncts and emeri­tus professors are also teaching government courses, he said. 
During the spring semester, one adjunct professor and one professor emeritus will teach government courses. 
Boris Yeltsln 
Alexander Rutskoi, the author of the decree, reversed their earlier defense of the crack­down. They backed the law­makers' move for negotiations, signaling that Yeltsin had de­cided against confrontation. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
If you see call 
The 
news happening, 
239-5303. 
Observer 

SQUASH TOURNAMENT 
"MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
TABLE TENNIS SINGLES 
I 
•<.lEN'S AND WOMF"'':~ '11\''.<;i!''-:·· 
CO-ED WATER LACROSSE 
NDsnJHNTS. FACULTY AND STAFF ARE ELIGIRLE 
DEADLINE -NOVEMBER 13 
Yeltsin's apparent indecision in using force, the limited num­ber of troops he was able to send to the region to enforce his decree and the failure of his representatives to carry out an order to arrest Dudayev showed his government to be weak in areas not dominated by ethnic Russians. 
In the Chechen-Ingush capital of Grozny. cheering militants fired their automatic weapons in the air and honked car horns to celebrate the Russian retreat. 
Dudayev said the Russian vote represented a "victory for democracy and truth." There was no sign of compromise from the Chechen-Ingush lead­
.ers on their Nov. 2 indepen­
dence declaration from the 
Russian Federation. 
Immediately before the Russian legislature voted, Dudayev said he would order terrorist strikes against atomic power stations around Moscow if Yeltsin did not back down. 
"Why should our mothers cry, our old people cry, why should our children cry and live so much in fear?" he said. " Why shouldn't Russia, which is where this evil is coming from, feel fear?" 
After the vote in Moscow. Dudayel' suspended the threat. 
Dudayev is a national hero in the mainly Muslim autonomous region of 1. 3 million people, 930 miles southeast of Moscow, for trying to break free of Russian control, which began under the czars. 
If Yeltsin had ordered troops to open fire, violence could have spread to other parts of the Russian Federation with sub­stantial non-Russian popula­tions. The backlash could also have worsened Russia's rela­tions with Muslim republics to the south. 
But if Yeltsin backs down en­tirely. it could encourage seces­sionist movements in other parts of the vast Russian re­public, including largely Muslim Tatarstan. 
After Yeltsin declared a state of emergency on Friday, armed Chechen-Ingush separatists took to the streets, forcing the badly outnumbered troops to withdraw to the Russian city of Mineralnye Vodi. The Chechen defense minister said 300,000 men had volunteered for the National Guard. 
Senate will form task force on current alcohol policy 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
The Student Senate will ap­point a task force to study the alcohol policy in general and its possible relation to off-campus crime. 
In Monday's meeting the Senate discussed inviting William Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Ufe, to attend a future meeting in order to discuss these issues. Senate decided that more spe­cific suggestions, resulting from in-depth study by a task force. were necessary to accomplish anything. 
"We do not want Bill Kirk to come now, but we do want to address the issues," the Senate concluded. 
The Senate discussed expand­ing the present task force on off-campus crime to include the alcohol policy. However, it was decided that the alcohol policy deserved more specific atten­tion. 
Targeted areas of study are the ambiguous wording of the present policy and the possibil­ity that the policy encourages more off-campus parties. 
The Senate also discussed the possibility of passing a resolu­tion supporting the inclusion of more student input in changes to du Lac. Nothing was de­cided, but the issue will be raised in future meetings. 
____TEL 
AN OLD TALE NEWLY ToLD BY GLENN AllAN SMITH DIREaED BY RoBERTA N. RuoE 
THURS., FRI., Nov. 14, 15 BP.M. ~~~~ SAT. Nov. 16, 11A.M. &2:30P.M. '~ SuN. Nov. 17, 2:30P.M. 



Tuesday, November 12, 1991 The Observer pageS 



of infections. 

The Observer!E.G.Bailey 
Working out 
Kristin Shuhz of Saint Mary's and David Short of Notre Dame exercise on the bicycle machines in the 
weight room at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
THE PROBLEM: BLURRY VISION 
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
* 
Eye exams and complete vision care 

* 
Same day service on most prescriptions 

* 
Conveniently located near campus 


20% Discount on materials to students and faculty 
~ 
== .=~::::.-==. E -~­
Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
2n-11s1 
VISA Mastercard 1635 N.lronwood 
and Discover accepted North of McDonalds 
Please support your local chapter. 
+ 
.Amsrican 
RedCross 
Kirsten, It's Time to Party Again 
BAPPYz~st! 
, 1 


women. 
''I'm optimistic that we will have an AIDS vaccine by the end of the 1990s," Fauci said. He said that a realistic goal for the present would be to develop a treatment which would sup­press the virus for a long period of time. "We hope to develop tailor-made drugs which will have a specific effect against the HIV virus," he added. 
The drugs presently available for AIDS are "all imperfect," according to Fauci. "There is still no cure; they (drugs) work for a couple of years, but then they don't work anymore," he said. 
Stlxually infected people are in the developing world, particu­larly in Africa, and it still re­mains only a small percentage of cases in North America and Europe, the Geneva-based agency said in an extensive re­port. 
The U.N. group says up to 5,000 people are infected each day around the world, and offi­cials fear an increase in preg­nant women infecting their ba­bies. 
Concern about heterosexual transmission of the AIDS virus was heightened after basketball star Magic .Johnson announced Thursday he had the IIIV virus and said he had no homosexual afTairs. 
In the United States, 3 per­cent of men and 34 percent of women contracted the virus more care," said Dr. Michael Merson, head of the U.N. health agency's AIDS program. 
Merson said tests of possible AIDS vaccines are planned for Thailand, Uganda, Rwanda and Brazil -nations with some of the highest AIDS rates. The tests -which will involve sev­eral thousand volunteers ­mark a departure from previ­ous approaches favoring early testing on animals. 
About a dozen potential vac­cines to slow or halt the onset on AIDS are being tested in the United States and Europe, and several more may be available. The testing not scheduled to begin for at least a year. 
Merson, however, advised against having too much hope for the vaccines. 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia (AP) -U.S. diplomats returned Monday to Cambodia's capital after a 16-year absence as part of an international effort to maintain a cease-fire in a dev­astating civil war and bring free elections. 
Cambodians are particularly hopeful the arrival of American diplomats and U.N. peacekeep­ing troops will prevent the re­turn to power of the murderous Khmer Rouge communist guer­rillas. 
The Khmer Rouge says it has abandoned the radical policies under which hundreds of thou­sands of Cambodians were killed during its reign of terror to transform society in the 1970s. 
But Western analysts say it has hidden troops and arms in the jungles for a possible at­tempt to seize power if it does not win elections called for in a U.N.-sponsored peace treaty. 
Khmer Rouge documents show it plans to form a political party that publicly espouses capitalism and democracy but is secretly run by the same fa­natics who oversaw its 1975-78 rule, analysts say. 
The treaty was signed in Paris on Oct. 23 by the Vietnamese­installed government, the Khmer Rouge and two rebel groups supported by the United States. 
HIV 
continued from page 1 
fected with the HIV virus. In the group of people who had the virus, 46 percent of the men and 72 percent of the women did not know the source of their infection. They had no "high­risk behavior," besides heterosexual contact. 
"A direct reflection of the heterosexual AIDS problem," according to Fauci, is the tremendous number of pedi­atric AIDS cases. By 1990, there were 3,312 reported cases of HIV-infected infants. Seventy-five percent of these in­fants received the virus from the mother through either di­rect or indirect IV drug use, said Fauci. 
"Pinning AIDS down presents a very confusing situation. AIDS is not a homogeneously­distributed disease,'' Fauci said. "It has different peaks and valleys in different parts of the country. It is also difficult to define, because if infected today, 5 to 10 years from now the disease will be expressed." 
The worldwide reported cases of AIDS is 371,803. According to Fauci, this 1990 figure is considered to be very low. There are "probably a million cases worldwide," said Fauci. In the United States, as of 1990, there were 192,406 reported AIDS cases. Men accounted for 90 percent of the U.S. cases, while only 10 percent were 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991
page 6 
American bishops urged to continue activism 
HowAmerican Expresshelps you cover more territory.For less money. . 

WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. Roman Catholic bishops began work Monday on policy state­ments calling for a moral de­bate on the environment and the plight of poor children after being urged by a church leader to take the heat that comes with involvement in the political arena. 
In addressing the fall meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk of Cincinnati said prelates are being "conscientious church leaders and good citizens" when they enter political debates on issues including abortion and Central America. 
"The dignity of the human person is the pivotal point on which both souls and nations turn," Pilarczyk said. "I think we think that it is right and just for us to keep proclaiming that dignity." 
But even as the bishops sought to speak to a national audience with an environmental statement that resists "coercive methods" of birth control, they were reminded of the more im­mediate concerns of their flocks in internal deba.tes over a proposal to slash the number of holy days of obligation from six to two. 
"The one species extinction which I'm sure you didn't check was the extinction of holy days," Bishop Anthony Bosco said in using the discussion of environmental policy to have the last word Monday on the more contentious holy days is­sue. 
The semiannual gathering of about 300 bishops runs through Thursday. 
The bishops have been criti­cized in recent years by both abortion-rights advocates, who accused the prelates of trying to legislate Catholic morality by pushing for bans on legalized abortion, and by conservatives, who charged the bishops with meddling where they don't be­long. 
In his remarks, Pilarczyk said the bishops' conference is not a political power bloc, but a group of pastoral leaders who share with the nation's founding fathers a concern for "the truth that all are created equal and all enjoy certain inalienable rights." 
The bishops' conference president said the church is not "irrelevant" to the arena of political parties and candidates. 
"We bring values and convic­tions about right and wrong, about care for the weak and the vulnerable," Pilarczyk said. 
Pilarczyk's speech drew mod­est applause, but the bishops gave an enthusiastic reception to the introduction of the pro­posed policy statements on the environment and the rights of children. 
The statement on "Renewing the Earth," the U.S. bishops' first foray into the environmen­tal debate, attacks the con­sumerism and the lifestyles of the affluent. 
While the statement acknowl­edges that unrestrained popu­lation growth can add to the environmental problem, the proposed policy departs from the agenda of some environ­mentalists in resisting "coercive methods of population control and programs which bias decisions through incentives or disincentives." 
"I just think we have to face the fact that there will be some challenges," said Archbishop John Roach of St. Paul and Minneapolis, chairman of the bishops' International Policy Committee. "Overconsumption is in fact a larger problem than overpopulation." 
Become aStudent Cardmember today and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
Only the American Express"' Card offers an·exciting travel program exclusivelyfor students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more. 
just look at the map and pick the place you'd like to visit. If it's on your side ofthe Mississippi River, you can use acertificate leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. 
By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express"' Student Privileges· Program. Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year-absolutelyfree. And that's just one example of how the Card can help you save. 
For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the 
ever be again. 
Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get readyto cover new terri­You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime­•Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considerrd cities eaSI of the Mississippi River. 
because there are no ~out dates. But you must "Acredil of up 10 13.70 for calls will app<ar on each billing Slalem<m for 12 m001hs afler mroll­mem. 13.70 is equal to !he charll<s for ado~1ic 30-minul< nighl/wedcend MCJ Card Compali·
make your reservations within 14 days ofthe day you bility call and appropriate surcharges. You muse enroll for this service by December 31. 1991. 
Continental
CALL 1-800-942-AMEX..
~.~
Mc1 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

r-------------------------------------------------~----~~~------------------------------------­
The Observer 
Tuesday, November 12, 1991 page 7 
Bush salutes Gulf War, Vietnam vets 

ARLINGTON, Va. (AP) ­Leading the nation's Veterans Day observances, President Bush placed a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns on Monday and said victory in the Gulf War had kindled overdue respect for Vietnam vets that was "good for the nation's soul." 
Bush pledged the United States would "always be a force for peace in the world" as he paid special tribute to veterans of the nation's two most recent wars, 
His topcoat drawn tight against a chilling wind, Bush said at the annual ceremony in Arlington National Cemetery that Desert Storm veterans "freed a captive nation and set America free by renewing our faith in ourselves." 
The president also promised that the nation would "never forget the POWs and the MIAs yet to be accounted for" from the Vietnam War. 
Across the Potomac River in Washington, several thousand people came to the Vietnam Memorial for brief ceremonies in which eight names were added to the wall of Americans whose deaths were attributed to the war -making 58,183 in all. 


In a sampling of other Veterans Day observances: 
• 
ROTC students based at Wright State University kept a vigil at the Dayton National Cemetery in Ohio to remember any American prisoners of war who didn't return from Vietnam. 

• 
The national commander of the Disabled Veterans of America said in Indianapolis that the government should do more than just praise war vet­erans. At a ceremony at the Indiana War Memorial, Cleveland Jordan said a variety of medical and educational ser­vices to veterans are being cut back or threatened even as the nation celebrates its success in the Persian Gulf. 


Chinese document points to new religion crackdown 
IIONG KONG (AP) -China's Communist Party has ordered intelligence agents and police to start a nationwide crackdown on "illegal" religious activities, according to a Central Committee document obtained by The Associated Press. 
The 12-page directive, titled "Circular on Further Tackling Certain Problems of Heligious Work," was issued Feb. 5 fol­lowing a nationwide gathering of religious officials in Beijing. Chinese sources recently passed along the documnnt to AP. 
It takns months for such di­rnetives to be passed down the many levels to local enforce­ment, and businessmen and re­ligious leaders have reported signs of a new crackdown in recent weeks. 
The crackdown comes as Secretary of State James Baker readies for a trip to China this week for talks, which will re­portedly include human rights. 
In firm language, the docu­ment orders "public security departments at all levels" to "resolutely attack those coun­terrevolutionaries and other criminal elements who make use of religion to carry out de­structive activities." 
The document defines illegal activities as the establishment of religious organizations out­side of state control and the use of religion to foment sepa­ratism. 
The Chinese sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, said China's increasingly restive Muslims and Tibetans along with a growing number of Catholics and Protestants would be targets of the campaign. 
The paper said that while freedom of religion must be re­spected in China, security or­gans must "attack the use of religion to perform unlawful and criminal activities and firmly resist the infiltration of foreign religious inimical forces." 
In the last week, police in Shanghai arrested at least six Jehovah's Witnesses, said Noel Steensen, an Australian busi­nessman who was expelled from China on Oct. 27 for hold­ing bible study sessions in his 

,................................... 
home. for the increase. 
The most recent arrest, he The document says "illegal" said, occurred Sunday when religious groups have set up police went to the house of a temples, churches, seminaries 28-year-old worshiper and took and theological institutes "to him away in handcuffs.--stru-ggh~ with us for the alle­
Steensen said he received the information in a phone call from Shanghai. An American businessmen living in Shanghai said he also knew some of those detained. 
In the southern provincial capital of Canton, 67-year-old Pastor Samuel Lamb, the leader of a fast-growing evangelical Christian sect, says police have begun to pressure his 1,000 or so followers who attend his house church four times a week. 
"It started a month ago," he said in a telephone interview from Canton. "Police are warn­ing people not to come to my house." 
1\vo of Lamb's followers were recently detained in Canton for distributing Bibles and proselytizing, church sources have said. 
Chinese officials appear in­creasingly alarmed at the growth of religious movements in China and blame foreigners giance of the youth." 
Qiao Shi, the chief of China's police services and a Communist Politburo member, urged police in Sunday's edi­tions of the official Legal Daily to smash "reactionary religious forces and secret societies which come to China from out­side our borders." 
Muslims of China's northwest have become increasingly restive under Chinese rule. Islamic activists in Xinjiang province launched an armed rebellion in April 1990, urging the establishment of an inde­pendent Eastern Turkestan Republic. Scores of rebels have been reportedly killed since then. 
Dozens of Tibetan Buddhists have been killed in battles with Chinese security forces in Tibet over the last three years. Many Tibetans want independence from Chinese rule. 
Thinking of doing ayear of service? 
Howabout doingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
pageS paid advertisement Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
Announcing ''Colloquy lor the Year 2000'' 


"This University-wide endeavor will be a structured attempt to engage all of us in a common reflection about the future priorities of Notre Dame. It will be the successor to COUP (Committee on University Priorities, 1973) and PACE (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence, 1982). 
"In the same spirit, and I hope with the same level of energy, the Colloquy will seek to review the present reality that is Notre Dame and, bearing in mind our distinctive Catholic mission and heritage, it will identify the most appropriate steps we ought to take to realize our vision for Notre Dame's fu­ture. 
"COUP and PACE preceded major fund-raising campaigns of the University. The Colloquy will have this as a secondary goal as well. But its primary purpose is to engage all of us in sharing our insights and perspectives and recommiting ourselves to the common task. 
In the days of Sorin this could be achieved by calling a general meeting and gathering everyone in a large room. Because of the present complexity of the University and because of the many demands on our time, today this effort requires representative structures. 
"First a word about the overall structure. A committee for the whole, made up of 25 people, will be responsible for planning and organizing the Colloquy and for writing the final report. 
"I personally will chair the committee, three other officers-the provost, the executive vice president and the vice president for student af­fairs-will serve on it, and the remainder of its membership will be a cross-section of faculty, staff and students, including the leadership of the faculty senate, student government and the graduate student union. Each member of the committee for the whole also will serve on one of four other committees that will focus on major areas of University life. 
"The provost will chair the com­mittee on academic life; the executive vice president will chair the committee on finances, University relations and athletics; the vice president of student affairs will chair the committee on student life; and I will chair the committee on mission, opportunities and challenges. 
"Each of these four committees will have 25 members, including appropriate officers, deans, and administrators and a cross-section of students, faculty and staff. 
"As you can calculate, there will be a total of 100 members of the Notre Dame community involved in one or more of these committees. Once again this is a representative role. The intention of the Colloquy is to engage as many people in this process of reflection as is feasibly possible. These committees will be expected to invite participation in as many formats as possible. 
"I cannot stress too much how important I consider this Colloquy, which is why I have chosen to chair both the committee for the whole and the committee on mission, oppor­tunities and challenges. We want to solicit the most candid opinions and the very best ideas available. " 
(excerpted from Father Malloy's annual address to the faculty, delivered October 1. 1991 ) 
Committee for the Whole 
Panos Antsaklis, professor of electrical engineering; Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice president; Joseph Blanco, senior undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters and student body president; Melissa Conboy, assistant director of athletics; Francis Connolly, professor of mathematics and vice chair of the faculty senate; Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and chair of the faculty senate. 
Lawrence Cunningham, professor and chairperson of theology; Vincent DeSantis, professor emeritus of history; Paul Drey, student in the Law School and president of the Student Bar Association; Rita Gautier, assistant director of human resources; Maureen Gleason, deputy director of University Libraries; Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., rector of Farley Hall; Gerald Jones, professor and chairperson of physics. 
Claudia Kselman, assistant to the director of international study pro­grams; Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president of the University and professor of theology; Naomi Meara, professor of psychology; Kurt Mills, graduate student in government and president of the graduate student union; Rev. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C., assistant professor of history; Carol Mooney, professor of law; Patricia O'Hara, vice president for student affairs and professor of law. 
Timothy O'Meara, provost and professor of mathematics; Lynn Ramsay, junior undergraduate student in the College of Business Administration; Kevin Warren, assistant vice president for student affairs; Kathleen Weigert, academic coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns; and William Wilkie, professor of marketing. Administrative assistant to the committee: Richard W. Conklin, associate vice president for University relations. 
Committee on Academic Life 
Ani Aprahamian, assistant professor of physics; Harold Attridge, dean of the College of Arts and Letters and professor of theology; Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and professor of biochemistry; Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and chair of the faculty senate; Fernand Dutile, acting dean of the Law School and professor of law; Deborah Grismer, graduate student in aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Kathleen Halischak, director of academic services for student athletes; Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research and professor of history; Amy Houm, junior undergraduate student in the College of Science; John Keane, dean of the College of Business Administration and professor of strategic management; Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
Also, Craig Lent, associate professor of electrical engineering; David Lutz, MBA student; Naomi Meara, professor of psychology; Anthony Michel, dean of the College of Engineering and professor of engineering; Sabrina McCarthy, associate professor of law; Jennifer McRedmond, senior un­dergraduate student in the College of Science and student government academic commissioner; Robert Miller, director of University Libraries. 
Patrick Murphy, professor and chairperson of marketing; .Timothy O'Meara, provost and professor of mathematics; Victoria Ploplis, assistant faculty fellow in biological sciences; Roger Schmitz, vice president, associate provost and professor of chemical engineering; Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., assistant professor of government; Kathleen Sullivan, director of alumni continuing education; and John Van Engen, professor of history and director of the Medieval Institute. 
Committee on Finances, University Relations and Athletics 
Kathleen Anthony, director of University audits; Panos Antsaklis, professor of electrical engineering; Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., executive director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and professor of economics; Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice president; Vmcent DeSantis, professor emeritus of history; Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C., religious superior, Corby Hall; Maureen Gleason, deputy director of University Libraries. 
Michael Hamilton, graduate student in history; Roger Jacobs, associate dean of the Law School, director of the law library and professor of law; Gerald Jones, professor and chairperson of physics; Barry Keating, professor and chairperson of finance and business economics; James Kuser, junior undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters; Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C., rector of Stanford Hall. 
Scott Malpass, investment officer of the University; Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs; Daniel Reagan, director of development; Richard Rosenthal, director of athletics; Joseph Russo, director of financial aid; Susan Sattan, junior undergraduate student in the College of Engineering; William Sexton, vice president for University relations and professor of management; Richard Sheehan, associate professor of finance and business economics; Stephen Trust, MBA student; Jennifer Warlick, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters· and associate pro­fessor of economics; William Wilkie, professor of marketing. 
Committee on Student Life 
Matthew Barrett, associate professor of law; Susan Brandt, financial aid counselor; Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall; Melissa Conboy, assistant director of athletics; Ann Firth, assistant to the vice president for student affairs; David Florenzo, senior undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters and student body vice president; Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., rector of Farley Hall; Mark Herro, associate professor of electrical engineering. 
Alan Howard, professor and associate chairperson of mathematics; William Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life; Rev. Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall; Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., assistant vice president for student affairs; Daniel McDevitt, student in the Law School; Rev. Don McNeill, C.S.C., director of the Center for Social Concerns; Kurt Mills, graduate student in government and president of the graduate student union. 
Rev. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C., assis­tant professor of history; Patricia O'Hara, vice president for student affairs and professor of law; Molly O'Neill, junior undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters; Iris Outlaw, director of minority student affairs; F. Clark Power, associate professor in the program of liberal studies; David Prentkowski, director of University food services; Lynn Ramsay, junior undergraduate student in the College of Business Administration; Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president; Katharine Sullivan, rector of Lewis Hall; and Lee Tavis, professor of finance. 
Committee on Mission, Opportunities and Challenges 
John Attanasio, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and professor of law; Joseph Blanco, senior undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters and student body president; Rev. Michael Buckley, S.J., professor of theology; Tracey Colpitts, graduate student in chemistry; Francis Connolly, professor of mathematics and vice chair of the faculty senate; Lawrence Cunningham, professor and chairperson of theology. 
Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, O.P., director of educational media; Thomas Frecka, professor and chairperson of accountancy; Paul Drey, student in the Law School and president of the Student Bar Association; Rita Gautier, assistant director of human resources; Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences and director of the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control; LaTonya Keaton, sophomore undergraduate student in the College of Science. 
Alan Krieger, assistant librarian; Charles Lennon, assistant vice president for University relations and executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; James Lyphout, associate vice president for business affairs; Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president of the University and professor of theology; Marvin Miller, professor and associate chairperson of chemistry and biochemistry; Carol Mooney, professor of law. 
Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., assistant professor of theology; Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C., rector of ministry; Kevin Warren, assistant vice president for student affairs; Kathleen Weigert, aca­demic coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns; and David Woods, director of support services. 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 12, 1991 Page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••••••....••.•..••....Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•..•...........•. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .......•••.••.•David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .•••.........••.•... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..••....... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pay-per-view would alienate NO's loyal supporters 
Dear Editor: that one of the ways that University. However, I assume I read with interest Dick Notre Dame has made me that since Rosenthal is excited 
s.s. 
Rosenthal's comments in the continue to feel close to it is by about this pay-per-view Nov. 6 Chicago Tribune relat­broadcasting its football scheme, he expects it to bring ing to his "pay-per-view" plans games over free TV. It has more money to the University. for the Nov.16 Penn State been a way that the University I would be interested in game. According to the article, has rewarded my loyalty. learning how much more the hH is excited about this oppor­It seems to me that in the University expects to earn in tunity to be among the first to absenc(l of other compelling TV revenues as the result of make money for Notre Dame information, it is in the going to pay-per-view. in this manner. University's best interest to Another way to approach 
I strongly oppose his plans continue to reward loyalty and the question is to tie .TV to have the University blaze support by broadcasting football revenues to changes the trail for more pay-per­games over free TV. in alumni and other view games beginning with So I suppose the questi9n is, supporters' contributions in the Penn Stale game this year. "How much is the rewarding the Brave New World of pay­$100. now, for every $10 paid to I oppose his plan for the of loyalty by broadcasting per-view. Therefore, assuming the watch a game, the University 
University receives $2 of the will get $2 (assuming I have
following reasons: football over free TV costing One common reaction to Pay-per-view is a strange the University?" This is not as pay-per-view among $10 charged for a pay-per­estimated the University's cut 
way to reward the easy a question as it seems. University contributors may view game, 50 additional correctly) while contributions contributing alumni and other One approach for answering mirror my own: cut annual households will need to sign will decline by $10. University of Notre Dame this question is to compare the contributions to the minimum up to watch the game for the In summary, pay-per-view "subway" supporters for their value of a contract to broad­level required to participate in University to break even on looks like an effective way to 
consistent and continuing cast games over free TV the football ticket lottery. my reduced contributions. An make Mr. Rosenthal look like a support. versus the value of a contract In my own ease, this means informal poll of other hero by increasing Notre The loyalty of Notre Dame to broadcast games over pay that I will cut my $75 annual graduates in my age group Dame's football revenues. The reveals that other contributors cost of heroism is to effectively
alumni and "subway" alumni TV (or a contract which gives contribution to $50, and I will has been extraordinary over a network or cable distributor not submit a matching will respond in a similar increase the burden of the the years. One of the reasons the choice of whether it will contribution form to my com­manner. fundraisers for the University's for this incredible support is broadcast on a pay-per-view pany's foundation. Since I will Another common and less General Fund and to alienate that the University finds ways basis). also refuse to pay to watch the reactionary response to pay­heretofore loyal contributors. of showing that it cares for its It is my understanding that football games on TV, the net per view will be to reduce J. Darrell Nolan '83 contributions by the amount Naperville, IL 
alumni and friends. I guess I free TV contracts have been result for the University will have come to realize today highly lucrative for the be a reduced contribution of paid to watch games on TV. So Nov. 6, 1991 
Coverage of murders does not Professor clarifies comments about gay groups 
merit media's sensationalism Dear Editor: do just as there are also been denied recognition be­In re: clar'ification of sum­heterosexual organizations that cause they are composed of Dear Editor: 23 other senseless deaths 
mary of my debate presentation do. homosexuals, do not advocate during forum of homosexual Rather, I indicated that Gays conduct that violates CatholicIn response to Ms. Neufeld's occurring anywhere else in our 
organizations by a Catholic and Lesbians at Notre morality. In so far as such
letter (The Observer, Oct. 31) world. 
University. Dame/Saint Mary's College conduct is conceived they leaveconcerning the lack of urgent In living beyond their lives, I did not say that homosexual (GLND/SMC) and Gay and it to the decision of their indi­coverage of the "Texas cafeteria Amerieans have taken the me­organizations in no way Lesbian alumni of Notre Dame vidual members. 
massacre": sensationalistic dia to bed with them. 
"indicate advocacy of homo­(GALA-NO), the two or­Lawrence J. Bradley 
aeeounts of moral decadence M. Grogan 
sexual conduct prohibited by ganizations that have been Hayes-Healy Center are all good and well in their T. Nevins Christian or Catholic moral barred from advertising in the Nov. 7, 1991 place, but theso 23 murders St. Edward's Hall principles." Clearly, there are campus media because they are deserve no more eoverage than Nov. 7,1991 homosexual organizations that not recognized and which have 



Viewpoint
Page 10 Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


~ 
entire book of tickets. Students who scalp tickets in order to make time fmd the new system unfair for their needs. 
If you're not necessarily selling your ticket for a profit, it is not worth the trouble nor the anxiety associated with trusting people to not lose the tickets, or to require a deposit. Instead of the tickets being an "all or nothing" purchase, why doesn't the administration allow students to sell the tickets they won't use back to the ticket office one week before each game? 
If this were done, there would be less scalping because students wouldn't be forced to scalp their tickets to strangers when they needed the weekend 
Dear Edttor: 
My friend and colleague Robert J. Lordi has given us a proposal for resolving the bud­get crisis in the College of Arts & Letters (The Observer, Nov. 7). Namely, that we field two football teams and so double our revenue from the sale of tickets. 
On the face of it this seems rational enough. It is well known that we have enough football players for several excellent teams and it would !Je splendid to see them all play. 
However, the proposal as­sumes that the surplus in rev­enue would be used to help Arts & Letters meet its shortfall. This asks us to believe a good off, but rather they could resell their tickets to the University for their original cost. This would definitely be more convenient for students interested in making time and not a profit. 
By reselling the tickets at the regular price to people willing to stand the entire time in the student section, the University would benefit from the extra profits generated. Also, many desperate fans wouldn't have to stand on the street corner with a cardboard sign around their neck waiting to pay the highest price for a ticket any longer. 
Ralph L. Calico 
Off-campus 
Nov. 8, 1991 
deal, and besides it shows poor business sense. It has been ex­plained more than once by peo­ple who know that the problem with Arts & Letters is that it is wasteful and redundant. 
For example, it teaches literature. But there is too much literature in altogether too many languages, and each year we seem to have more of it. All this literature encourages relativism. 
I suggest that we follow the example of our major industries and sell Arts & Letters to Japan. 
Gerald L. Bruns Department of English Nov. 7, 1991 
ticket policy. If I had purchased 
tickets this year, I would have L.----------------------8-·.._.. been running a great risk of not worth the risk financially. reasons: to make a profit and/or being able to resell my tickets I understand the purpose be­to make time. 
for certain games I didn't wish hind the new policy, but there Students who scalp tickets in to attend, that is, if I had more are better ways in which to order to make a profit will find important things to do, like achieve the same means with­a way to do so no matter what study! Before the new policy, I out the obvious problems of the the system. With the new sys­could resell the tickets which I new tickets (i.e. losing or having tem, students either sell to was too busy to use. This stolen an entire book of tickets). friends in which they trust, or semester, the tickets were not Students "scalp" tickets for two require a high deposit for the 
Student government encourages input, responses to undergraduates' problems 

Dear Notre Dame Student Body: 
Over the past few months, the comment I have heard echoed most often about student government is that we are not visible enough, we are not ade­quately engaging with the gen­eral student body, and few people know what we are do­ing. I do not argue. In recogni­tion of this opinion, Joseph Blanco, the Student Body President, and I are taking new steps to facilitate better com­munication with the student body. 
Some steps have already been taken. The F-R-E-D line contin­ues to be accessible even though Fred himself no longer graces us with his presence. Also, we have begun and will continue to go to weekly Hall Council meetings all across campus. Informal discussions in the residence halls about issues important to us students are very important, and I en­courage all students to attend their Hall Councils and discuss issues with us on those occa­sions when we will be visiting. 
The third step, and this letter is the beginning of that step, involves submitting letters, written by either Joseph or my­self, to The Observer on a regu­lar basis. Each letter would cover one particular topic, and it would afford us the opportu­nity to share our thoughts with the entire community. 
This week, I share with you the ways in which student government is addressing the concerns of undergraduates as Notre Dame establishes itself as a "National Catholic Research University." 
Intuitively, many of us can conclude that undergraduate teaching is being harmfully compromised as Notre Dame continues to emphasize, among other things, research. Such conclusions will certainly be re­inforced over the next few weeks as we DART into our classes. 
And the budget problems in the College of Arts and Letters only serve to compound the problem. As a school rooted in a tradition established by the greatest of all teachers, Jesus Christ, Notre Dame must un­derstand that teaching is a spe­cial function -even in higher education. So our job is to compile relevant opinions and statistics, and see if our intu­itive conclusions can be based on more sound reasoning. 
Such a project is very large. It is being spearheaded by a February report to the Board of Trustees. Karen Stohr is chairing the committee whose task is to formulate the report. Surveys concerning this matter have been sent to all faculty members, and their response rate has been excellent. A new round of surveys will be sent to some students, and I encourage all of those who receive a sur­vey to cooperate with our ef­forts. 
Once again, we seek your in­put. Student government is on the second floor of LaFortune. Stop by on any week day after­noon. The number to the F-R-E­D line is 283-F-R-E-D. Finally, Joseph and I will be attending Hall Councils this week in Fisher, Keenan and Morrissey. 
Good luck in your studying and stay in good health as we are about to commence the long holiday season. 
David Florenzo Student Body Vice President Nov. 7,1991 
Showing of Madonna's 'Truth or Dare' lowers prestige 
Dear Editor: 
The Friends of the Snite Museum of Art are offering for sale "a superb collection of Christmas and all-purpose cards featuring some of the most important works in the Snite Museum of Art's collec­tion." The sample card sent with the mail solicitation to members of the Notre Dame community featured a repro­duction of Madonna and Child, by Jacopo Sansovino. 
During this pre-Christmas season, the Snite is also featur­ing another Madonna, aka Madonna Louise Veronica Ciccone, whose autobiographi­cal film, "Truth or Dare," will be featured at the Snite on Nov. 15 and 16. 
The film is sort of a documen­tary of Madonna's recent "Blond Ambition" concert tour. The title of the film, according to Movieguide, "refers to a game Madonna plays with band members. They must answer a question truthfully or dare to expose their genitals" or per­form other feats of sexual ath­letics. 
As Joseph Sobran described one of the scenes in this classic work of art, Madonna "lies on a bed on stage. The stage is dark, except for the bed. Standing beside her are two black male dancers, wearing weird conical brassieres. As she sings 'Like a Virgin,' she vigorously massages her crotch, moaning and arching her back spasmodically. There's more, but you get the basic idea. The huge crowd goes wild." (Joseph Sobran, The Sign of the· Crotch, Human Life Review, Summer, 1991, 7) 
"There is no full-fledged sex­uality in the movie, but near the end, in a game of truth or dare, Madonna is asked to show her technique with men, and per­forms fellatio on an empty bot­tle. She acquits herself with a mixture of arrogant aplomb and ludicrous pathos." (National Review, Aug. 12, 1991) 
Time offered the following assessment of the artistic merits of Madonna which may have captured the interests of the di­rectors of the Snite: 
"To use a technical psychiatric term, Madonna is a complicated nut. A darker shadow if her libido has been peeking forth in her recent work. She appeared bound in chains and wearing a black leather dog collar in her video epic Express Yourself. • 
"In Hanky Panky she pleaded for corporal punishment, asking for "a good spanking." She frolicked as a stern, let-them­eat-cake fop queen in a sendup of Les Liaisons Dangereuses at the MTV Video Awards cere­mony. In her controversial medium-core mini-film, Justify My Love, she played an 0-like character drifting through a hypnagogic sexscape worth of Leopold von Sacher-Masoch. 
"Truth or Dare takes her into murkier erotic territory still: Circe with a wink and a whip. A common theme of these artis­tic explorations by this former cheerleader is 
masochism."(Time, May 20, 1991) 
As the campus sign proclaims, Notre Dame is "A National Catholic Research University." We have a hiring freeze on needed teachers in Arts and Letters. But we do continue to seek national academic pres­tige. To achieve it we must fol­low the standards of those who have it in their power to confer or withhold that prestige. 
Two years ago, Notre Dame sponsored a public showing of a blasphemy of Christ, in the film, "The Last Temptation of Christ." The University admin­istrators could not bring them­selves to declare that even an outright blasphemy of Christ is not entitled to sponsorship by a university that calls itself Catholic. • 
Instead, our standards are set by the secular establishment. At the time of the showing of The Last Temptation, Professor Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum, said " When it (the Snite) was built nine years ago, we decided if a film could be seen at the Museum of Modern Art, it could be seen here." 
After the sponsorship of The Last Temptation, the showing of a couple of X-rated films last year and of Madonna's "Truth or Dare" this year is small potatoes indeed. My comments here are not intended as a sug­gestion for any public demon­stration or protest over the Madonna showing. 
What the Snite needs is not a demonstration but a fumigation. The Trustees have now reappointed the main Upiversity administrators for another five­year term. Presumably that reappointment is a mark of approval of the current policies, which presumably will continue. It leads one to wonder what the Snite will be showing in 1996. 
Charles E. Rice. Professor of Law Nov.1,. 1991 

~----------------­
-
Accent 
Tuesday, November 12,.1991 page 11 



By JEANNE DE VITA listen to music. espresso, flavored mineral new on-campus escape. working together," Abood Accent Writer "What is exciting about water, and baked snacks. A group of six Saint Mary's said. 
(the Coffeehouse) is that it's "It's like going into juniors called the Sister The Coffeehouse Need an escape? the essence of what Saint someone's house," said Ellen Chain gathered in front of encourages the unique Saint Mary's Clarissa Mary's is," said Peggy McQuillan, President of the the fireplace to sing their talents of students by Dalloway's Coffeehouse, Abood, coordinator and Residence Hall Association, combination of original allowing the artisitic named after the Virginia founder of the Coffeehouse. which has helped to songs and Irish love ballads freedom of coloring on the Woolf novel, opened on Promoting a sense of promote the Coffeehouse. at 9 p.m. Sister Chain tablecloths. The students Wednesday, November 6. community which is able to On opening night, entertained the audience wrote on the tablecloths in 
Located in the Saint enjoy their own unique Wednesday, November 6, as with their particular brand vibrant reds, greens, and Mary's Clubhouse, the styles and talents, the many as 60 people crowded of music created by acoustic blues, exactly what the Coffeehouse is an attempt to Coffeehouse environment is into the Coffeehouse to guitars, a portable Coffeehouse can be: bring members of the Saint an informal gathering place experience the informal keyboard, bongos, and something different to each Mary's and Notre Dame on the Saint Mary's campus. environment which provides voice. person. communities together. The environment is the opportunity for students Sister Chain is not a 
The purpose of the "reminiscent of a European to listen to, play or practice professional band, and that The Coffeehouse is open Coffeehouse is to provide cafe," according to Abood. A music among friends. is precisely the emphasis of on Wednesdays, Fridays and students with a place to volunteer staff helps to Faculty, volunteers, SMC and the Coffeehouse. "It was Saturdays. No reservations meet friends, study and make and sell cappuccino, NO students crowded this exciting to see the women or cover charge is required. 
Slayer's most recent release energizes their audience 
"Sport the war, war support/
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Dacada of Aggression 
The sport is war, total war/
Music Critic 
Slayer 
When victory's a massacre/ The Slayer eoncerts can be dan­

final swing is not a drilV It's ­gerous. 
* * * * 
how many people I can kill." The hand appeals primarily 
(out of five) 
Slayer turns to show another to droves of denim-and-leather­
facet with "Expendable Youth." clad youngsters whose first The set never slows down, as Its theme universal, this track passion is the release of angst each disc sizzles with landmark is both a lament for wasted and long-rnstrained rage which Slayer songs. youth and an eye-opening de­lakes place in the pit. "South of !leaven" is a look at nunciation of inner-city drug 
As rap has emerged as the Armageddon from the side of wars. 

predominant voiee of the inner the sinner, a perspective sel­If nothing else, the song city, the brand of metal popu­dom seen, except in Slayer's serves to educate a principally I larized by Slayer and its kin work. Caucasian audience of their I 
serves as the voice of disillu­"An unforeseen future/ ghetto-bound brothers' fight to 'I sioned suburban and rural Nestled somewhere in time/ survive in American society. Ameriea. Unsuspecting victims/ No With songs like "Expendable 
Tho music, indeed, must be warnings, no signs." Youth" and "War Ensemble," heard. Slayer is expectedly brash, Slayer shows that metal bands The release of Decade of and unafraid to take the un­can teach their audience, and Aggression, a two-disc exhibi­popular or radical perspective still rock harder and heavier tion of the band's 1990-1991 on most of their songs. than anyone else signed to a 

-
world tour, unleashes Slayer's "Dead Skin Mask" explores record deal. power on the unknowing the practices of a psychopath And that is what Slayer does massns. from his own mind, while throughout Decade of 
Decade of Aggression begins "Jesus Saves" lets its wholly Aggression. Driven by the beat with a forbidding chant from tongue-in-cheek title do most of created by drummer Dave 1/32 notes than many Kirk is awe-inspiring. Unfortunately, the audience. Made up largely the talking. Lombardo, the group's energy Hammett efforts. the only way to truly of kids frustrated with high­6ut Slayer is not just a rebel is nearly unbelievable. Recorded live, without over­experience a Slayer show is to 
band. The group, spearheaded Araya's shouts burst forth dubbing, Decade of Aggression live it. 
school and subsequent dead­
is a stunning musical overview
end jobs, the crowd screams by vocalist/bass player Tom with rage, while Kerry King 
and Hanneman's guitars of what has been called "the But though the passion of the Slayer's name, as if in a trance. Araya and guitarist Jeff Hanneman, writes songs that scream for mercy throughout most exciting live band since crowd is undeniably lost
But the band's entrance soon breaks that trance, and after confront the very evils of the the fastest songs. the Sex Pistols." through recording, Decade of over a minute of preparative society in which its fans live. While every track is better Aggression lets one understand 
Slayer's crowd is electrified why the audience is excited,guitar, the four-member outfit "War Ensemble," from last when played at eleven, some of 
launches into a blistering year's Seasons in the Abyss, is the best at high decibel levels by the excitement generated on and why its constituents pay so one of Slayer's many anti-war are "Raining Blood," and stage, and their reactions are -much attention to these long­
rendition of the classic "Hell 
Awaits." anthems. "Black Magic," featuring more as frightening as their passion haired commentators. 



The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991
page 12 
Morris, Nixon and three others declare free agency 
NEW YORK (AP) -World have to say." $3.65 million but one day after 15 with a 3.97 ERA. Series MVP Jack Morris and Pirates general manager pitching 10 shutout innings MacPhail was in Florida and suspended Atlanta outfielder Larry Doughty declined to against Atlanta in Game 7 of the could not be contacted Monday. "Last week I faxed the doc­Otis Nixon were among the five comment Monday on the offer World Series, he decided not to The top-paid pitcher is Roger tor's report to all the major players who filed for free or confirm that it had been exercise it. Twins general Clemens of Boston, who aver­league teams other than the 
made. Bonilla has said he was manager Andy MacPhail has ages $5.38 million beginning Mets because I was hearing all
agency Monday to raise the to­tal to a record 97. "99.9 percent" certain he would said he hoped to re-sign Morris, next season. Dwight Gooden of sorts of rumors about his el­who is looking to raise his the New York Mets is second at bow," said Viola's agent, Craig
Meanwhile, the Pittsburgh leave Pittsburgh. 
Pirates made a late $18.5 mil­The total of free agents broke salary to the $5 million-a-year $5.15 million. Fenech. "That's about all I'm the previous record of 96, set range. going to say. I'm going to try to
lion, four-year offer to out­
''I'm not optimistic at the "I expect to talk to a number hold to a policy that I'm notfielder Bobby Bonilla, who filed last year. Others filing Monday 
for free agency on the first were Minnesota second base­moment," Morris' agent, of clubs," Moss said, "and Jack going to discuss which teams Richard Moss, said Monday. "I is prepared to move if that's are interested and which teams
possible day. The offer was re­man Al NeWm.an, Twins catcher have made offers, or else I'll setjected Friday by Bonilla's agent, Junior Ortiz and California out­had several conversations with what happens." 
fielder Max Venable. Andy and the one thing we the North American record for
Dennis Gilbert, and other teams can start making offers · Seven more players were eli­agreed on was that if anyone Meanwhile, clubs began to get interviews in one year." gible to file by the midnight deserves to be at or near the ready for the market's opening
Tuesday. 
"Starting Tuesday, I will con­deadline, including 1\vins third top of salary structure, it's Jack bell. The top pitcher available, Other top stars available in­tact all the teams that have baseman Mike Pagliarulo, Los Morris. What I take this all to left-bander Frank Viola, re­clude outfielder Danny contacted us," Gilbert said. "I Angeles catcher Gary Carter mean is they just haven't jected a $13 million, three-year Tartabull, first baseman Wally will start making appointments and Houston pitcher Mike Scott. decided whether to pay the offer from the Mets during the Joyner and reliever Mitch 
with them and see what they Morris had a 1992 option for money, that's all." season. He then slumped to 13-Williams. 
German magazine accuses Atlanta of using bribery to win Olympics 
ATLANTA (AP) -The presi­the magazine print a correction, Olympic officials offered mem­Athens, Greece. making any effort to see if they 
Der Speigel said the allega­are true.... When challenged by
dent of the Atlanta Committee and threatened legal action. bers of the International for the Olympic Games de­"Your reckless publication has Olympic Committee gold credit tions of bribery were made by responsible members of the 
manded on Monday that a the potential to harm both cards, free heart surgery, disgruntled Australian and IOC, you have been unable to German news magazine retract Atlanta and the International scholarships to American uni­Greek Olympic officials. The ar­provide any proof," Payne charges that the city got the Olympic movement. We cannot versities for their children and ticle said the officials had a list wrote. 1996 Games through bribery. know the extent of any damage cash bribes of up to $120,000. of 18 IOC members who al­"Your actions are irrespon­
In a letter dated Nov. 11, done by your libelous state­The IOC voted in September legedly took bribes, and 26 of­sible." ACOG president Billy Payne told ments," Payne wrote to Der 1990 to make Atlanta host of ficials who accepted numerous 
the publisher of Der Speigel Speigel publisher Rudolf the 1996 Summer Games, by­gifts. Greek Olympic officials have that the magazine's Nov. 4 ar­Augstein. passing Melbourne, Australia, "You published these allega­denied any knowledge of ticle was libelous. He demanded The article claimed Atlanta and sentimental favorite tions of corruption ... without bribery. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Lost: Gold Coin Ring BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME Monica Eigelberger is a ho. Happy Belated Birthday Megan The Toad Has Emerged!!!
NOTICES Great Sentimental Value $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, Morrison Bogus Toad, Appearing at Club If found please call Lisa LAUNDRY, ETC. Your Pals Tuesday, 8-10 at Hagar Hall, Saint at x4838 CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794. stronger than burt Mary's, tonight. 
TYPING AVAILABLE It won't eat flies, but it sure will 
287-4082 hey nil make you hop!!! lost: Fuji camera on Halloween in A quaint studio in lovely old INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. parking lot of either Club 23 or the mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $225 I Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
Buy and Sell used books Commons. If found please call mo. plus deposit call 2879624 tor a quote 9:30-6:00, CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP Christine's favorite: Pandora 's Books-newbooks and Sheila #2547. 289-1993. Office near campus. MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30P.M. -Now how much would you pay?­the NY Times too!! FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 Vodka with just a touch of jello! Just corner of ND ave and Howard the way I like it! 233-2342110-5:30 everyday WANTED ii_FORSALE --TOM WESTRICK---1 am not ruled by mere emotions.­
--TOM WESTRICK--000 The Copy Shop 000 But wait! There's more!-llove myL-----------' 2 0/W AIR SB-PHILLY. --TOM WESTRICK--You LaFortune Student Center R.A.! Christine -I hope you have a NOTRE DAME VIDEO ALASKA SUMMER NOV 14, 7am $60 EA. weenie in INSBRUCK WHEN YOU NEED COPIES wonderful birthday! EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn 287-9676 Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock WE'RE OPEN With love, LA NEW RELEASES $5,000+/month. Free wish you well in that land of easy EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS 
Silence of the Lambs transportation! Room & Board! "A". Rich-erino, Rich-meister, Richie The Doors Over 8,000 openings. No Want to FLY to the N.Y.C. area for May your skiing ever be in those Rich-star, Robin Hood experience necessary. MALE or Thanksgiving Break? wonderful mounds of Austrian Sharing our love with a baby would Backdratt FEMALE. For employment program I have a CHEAP round-trip plane mountains. be a dream come true. Please help I'd have to agree with yesterday's 
call Student Employment Services ticket for sale. us with our dream. Call Marty or assessment of the butt-smelling 7 DAYS A WEEK -(4-11 p.m.) at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118. Call MIKE @ X3263. --TOM Nancy collect officials. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE WESTRICK TOM (317) 842-8312. WESTRICK TOM I am slightly curious how you would Gymnastic instructor to teach young NEW TYPEWRITER 40% OFF WESTRICK--know ~bout my moves on the field Spee-Dee Wordprocessing children. Must enjoy working with 271-0868. DINNER FOR 2 AT THE since1you DID NOT COME TO THE 
. 237-1949 children. Must also have your own 1--MARRIOTI! GAME!! transportation. Will train, flexible ATIENTION WASH. D.C. AREA hours. Send resume to: STUDENTS!!! Sign-ups tor You are eligible to win this splendid Charles Barkley 
TICKETS
The Early Childhood Development BRYSON STAPLES X-mas bus are 8-9p.m. Nov. 19 in prize by volunteering at the SMC Center(ECDC) is having a BOOK 403 E. TERRACE DRIVE basement Lafortune. Cost-Student Phonathon, November 4­FAIR: JEFFERSONVILLE, IN 47130 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS $55 1way/$110 rt. 14, 1991. Call Jean at 4582 to sign 

-
Nov. 8,11-14 WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. up or for additional details! Free 
7:30am-5:30pm long distance phone calls! Free Books for children preschool Sales Demonstrator Monique-food! Free fun! thru 6th grade, Discovery toys, NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283-Happy birthday to the sex World Books/Childcratt. Great To demonstrate and sell an all 1545 queen of Siegfried! Stay HOLIDAY GIFTS tor the whole purpose cleaner in a national major moist! WANTED:TASTY SYR DATES family. Proceeds benefit ECDC retail chain. $7 hr. plus incentive INTERESTED?? BRING A classr410ms. If ? and benefit program. Full and part CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP! BANANA TO 218 LYONS call 284-4693 time positions available immediately 2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO I am the Lizard King and I can do 
in Mishawaka & Goshen. Will train. HAWAII OVER THANKSGIVING anything. Call 1-800-7 41-0868 tor information CALLX3457 Squire Ravage has been docu­SEND YOUR MAN A FLOWER!! and interview. mented as procrastinating in Wednesday, Nov. 13th regards to his present wagon ride. at IRISH GARDENS For Sale: 2 Penn St GAs MORE DAYS UNTIL KELLY Maybe next week. 
EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING x2558 Amy DAUGERDAS' BIRTHDAY • ONLY Discount for women sending flowers BREAK TRIPS I TWO MORE DAYS UNTIL KELLY or balloons-North America's #1 Student Tour DAUGERDAS' BIRTHDAY • ONLY RIDE NEEDED FOR 
$. 50 ott any purchase up to $5.00 Operator seeking motivated 4 Penn State tickets needed. TWO MORE DAYS UNTIL KELLY THANKSGIVING students, organizations, fraternities Call Marijan at 239-7380 DAUGERDAS' BIRTHDAY • ONLY $1 :oo ott any purchase over $5.00 and sororities as campus (day) or 277-5746 (eve.) ARE YOU DRIVING TO THE 
representatives promoting Cancun, NO.JERSEY/NYC/L.I. AREA? IF Watch for future Wednesday Bahamas, Daytona and Panama The Pasquerilla West Football team SO, I WILL PAY $$ AND SPLIT Specials! City! I NEED PENN ST TIX.272-6306 would like to thank all the faithful DRIVING. WILL LEAVE TUES OR 
Calli-(800) 724-1555! fans who have attended our games WED. this season. PLEASE CALL X3414 
help family reunoin in HAPPY ICE SKATING INSTRUCTORS VALLEY-need a TON of TIX tor We would also like to thank our tor Wednesday nights, 6:45-PSU game. call BILL X1583 coaches especially Jim Gordon and GIJiver, 
TO THE PERSON WHO 9:15 pm. Call Mrs. Myers at Chip Malin who will not be with us I really missed you last week! Let's BORROWED THE TAN OVER­287-4524 and please list your next year. "Copa at the Cabana on Fridqyl COAT HALLOWEEN NIGHT ON qualifications. NEEDED: 2 PENN ST. G.A.'S GM Barry M THE RIDE TO LAFAYETIE SQ., CALL CHARLIE AT xt737 Also, thank you to all the seniors COULD YOU PLEASE CALL MARK who have contributed so much to OR KEVIN 289-6494 our team. CONGRATULATIONS to the mens 
soccer team on their excellent 
LOST/FOUND 
L...-_FO_R_R_E_N_T____.II.___P_E_R_s_o_N_A_L---J 
~ristin Gater!, Carrie Coil, Audrey season. Especially, to number BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY -Welling, Terry Cotter, and Tanya SEVENTEEN on his outstanding 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF 219-291-7153 Lando Lives Pieters we will miss you next year!! performance this season. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE-AROUND THE JACC OR WASHINGTON NICE FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE I am a SN and I can do anything! Big Bad B brings the hoop down HALL. PLEASE CALL NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT and chiken sheds a little moonlight 
1456 SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 on the subject PEOPLE 2773097 Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 


Tuesdoy, November 12, 1991 
SCOREBOARD 




NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALLEASTERN CONFERENCE 
National leagueAtlantic Dtwlelon COLORADO ROCKE~amed Jimmy Leatar, Ty 
w L Pd Gl l10 Streak Home Away Con! 
Coalow and Edward Santa scouting aupervllora. 
Philadelphia 4 2 .667 4-2 Won4 3-1 1-1 3-2 American AssociationNew York 3 2 .600 112 3-2 Won3 3-0 0-2 3-2 AMERICAN ASSOCIATION-Announced BranchOrlando 3 2 .600 112 3-2 Lost2 2-0 1-2 3-2 Rickey Ill has been elected prealdant by the leagueMiami 2 2 .500 1 2-2 Lost1 1-1 1-1 2-2 directors.
Boston 2 4 .333 2 2-4 Lost3 1-2 1-2 2-3 Florida State leagueWashington 2 4 .333 2 2-4 Lost4 1-2 1-2 2-3 FORT LAUDERDALE YANKEES-Named SteveN-Jerwey 1 3 .250 2 1-3 Lost3 0-2 1-1 1-3 
Frick general manager and Chris Morgan asslltant general manager.
Central Dlvfalon BASKETBALL
Detroit 4 1 .800 4-1 Won4 2-1 2·0 4-1 National Basketball AssociationChicago 4 2 .667 112 4-2 Won3 3-1 1-1 3-1 CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Scon Wllllarrs,Atlanta 3 2 .600 1 3-2 Won2 2-1 1-1 2-2 forward-canter.
Milwaukee 4 3 .571 1 4-3 lost1 2-1 2-2 3-2 CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Actlvaled Mark Prloe, Indiana 2 4 .333 2112 2-4 lost3 1-1 1-3 0-1 guard, from the Injured llat. Placed Jimmy Oliver, Cleveland 1 .200 1-4 Lost2 0-0 0-0
4 3 1-4 guard on the Injured llat. 
Charlona 1 5 .167 3112 1-5 lost2 1-2 0-3 1-5 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Waived Kennard Winchester, guard-forward. AcUvated Carl H9!fara.
WESTERN CONFERENCE forward, from the Injured lilt.
Mldweat Dlvlalon PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Actlvated Manute Bol, 
w L Pd Gl l10 Streak Home Away Con! 
center, from the Injured llat. Placed Kenny Payne, 
Houston 4 1 .800 4-1 Won3 4-0 0-1 3-1 forward, on the Injured 1111.
San Antonio 4 1 .800 4-1 Won2 3-0 1-1 3-1 Continental Basketball AaaoclatlonDenver 3 2 .600 1 3-2 lost1 3-1 0-1 3-2 GRANO RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Darryl Odom, Utah 2 3 .400 2 2-3 Wont 1-1 1-2 2-1 guard. Waived Aaron MitcheM, guard.
Minnesota 1 4 .200 3 1-4 Loat1 0-2 1-2 1-4 RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Traded Marvin Dallas 1 5 .167 3112 1-5 lost2 0-2 1-3 1-2 Alexander. forward, to the Birmingham BandMa for Doug Roth, center. Activated Jarvia Basnight,Pacific Dlvlalon forward.
Golden State 5 1 .833 5-1 Won1 1-0 4-1 2-0 FOOTBALLLA Clippers 4 2 .667 1 4-2 lost! 3-0 1-2 3-2 National Football leagueSeanIa 3 2 .600 1 112 3-2 Won3 2-2 1-0 2-2 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Waived S9V'Phoenix 3 3 .500 2 3-3 Lost! 1-1 2-2 3-2 Foster, wide recalwr.
Portland 3 3 .500 2 3-3 Won2 3-1 0-2 0-3 
COLLEGE
LA lakars 2 3 .400 2 112 2-3 Won1 1-1 1-2 2-3 MIAMI-Suspended Martin Panon, running back,Sacramento 2 3 .400 2112 2-3 lost! 2-1 0-2 1-3 and Jonathan Harris, wide recalwr, for violating team policy.
Saturday's Games NEW JERSEY TECH-Named George LaTorre New York 118, Charlona 113 Tuesday's Games men's and women's fencing coach.
Detroit 110, N-Jarwey 100 New Jersey at N-Vorl<, 7:30p.m 
ST. THOMAS AQUINAS-Named Peter Winner Atlanta 97, Miami 93 Orlando at Washington, 7:30p.m. 
man's asalatant basketball coach.
Golden State 127, Washington 119 
Charlotte at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. 
SYRACUSE-Named Craig Welnsleln assistantChicago 107, Orlando 76 Milwaukee at Cl91181and, 7:30 p.m. baseball coach.
Houston 96, Phoenix 95 Oetrott at Chicago, 8 p.m. 
Milwaukee 111, Dallas 95 Houston at Dallas, 8:30p.m
U1ah 101, LA Clippers 64 Denver at Portland, 10 p.m. 
Seanla 118, Indiana 111 Phoenix at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Minnesota 64, Sacramento 80 Boston at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
I MLB FREE AGENTS
Sunday's Games Wednesday's Games Detroit 85, Washington 79 U1ah at N-Jerwey, 7:30p.m. 
Portland 116, Boston 90 
Philadelphia at Orlando, 7:30p.m. AMERICAN LEAGUE LA Lakars 96, Mlnn98ota 86 Detroit at Miami, 7:30p.m BALTIMORE (2)-Dwight Evans, of; Glenn Davia, 
Chicago at Charlone. 7:30 p.m. lb. 
Monday's Games 
BOSTON (4)-Joe Hesketh. lhp, Dennis la"ll. Late Games Not Included N-York at Indiana, 7:30p.m 
Washington at Minnesota, 8 p.m rllp; S19118 Lyons, 2b; Dan Patry, rhp. Philadelphia 102, Milwaukee 99 CALIFORNIA (8)-Bart Blyleven, rhp; Donnie
LA Clippers a1 San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Sacramento at Utah, (n) Boston at Phoenix, 9:30p.m Hill, 2b; Wally Joyner, 1b; Kirk McCaskill, rhp; Jeff Indiana at LA Clippers, (n) Robinson, rhp; Dick Schotlald, aa; Max Venable, of; Dave Winfield, of. CHICAGO (3)-CarMon Flak, c; ScoU Fletcher, 2b; Dan Pasqua. of. DETROIT (6) -Dave Bargman. 1 b; John Cerutti. lhp; Jerry Don Gleaton, lhp; Pete lncavlglla, of;NBA LEADERS Lloyd Moseby, of; Mark Salas, c. KANSAS CITY (4) -Steve Crawford, rhp; Jim WALES CONFERENCE Scoring 
Team Offen• Elaanrelch, of; Kurt Stillwell, aa; Danny Tartabun, Patrick Dlvlelon G FG FT Pia Avg G Pia Avg of. w L T Pia GF Gil Home Away Dlv Jordan, Chi. 6 86 32 209 34.8 
Golden St. 6 742 123.7 MILWAUKEE (2)-Jim Ganlner, 2b; Willie 
San Antonio 5 568 113.8 Randolph, 2b. NY Rangerw 12 6 1 25 65 56 8-3-1 4-3.0 5-2-0 Chicago 8 674 112.3 MINNESOTA (7)-Steve Bedrosian, rhp; Dan 
Washington 13 4 0 26 85 52 5-2.() 8-2.() 7.().() Wilkins, AU. 5 53 39 148 29.6 
K. Malone, Utah 5 54 37 145 29.0 
7 20 Mullin, G.S. Charlotte 658 Gladden, of; Brian Harper, c; Terry Leach, rhp; Jack
New Jerway 10 0 65 49 6-1-0 4-6-0 2-4-0 6 72 27 173 28.8 8 109.7 
N-York 5 548 109.6 Morris, rhp; AI Newman, 2b; Junior Ortiz, c.
Plltoburgh 7 7 3 17 65 67 2-4-3 5-3.() 3-5-1 Adams, Wash. 6 55 37 162 27.0 Philadelphia 6 7 1 13 44 43 4-3-0 2-4-1 1-4-1 Barkley, Phil. 5 43 43 130 26.0 Philadelphia 5 545 109.0 OAKLAND (6) ­
Ron Darling, rhp; Mlka Gallego, Milwaukee 8 108.8 2b; Brook Jacoby, 3b; Carney Lansford, 3b; E,..t
NY lalandarw 4 10 2 10 56 71 3-4-1 1-6-1 1-4-0 Robinson, S.A. 5 49 32 130 26.0 653 Ewing, N.Y. 5 53 21 127 25.4 
Indiana 6 650 108.3 Rllea, 3b; Curt Young, lhp. 534 SEAmE (3)-Alvin Davia, 1b; Bill Krueger, lhp; 
Adame Dlvlalon Worthy,LAL 5 45 22 115 23.0 Houston 5 108.8 Montreal 14 5 1 29 70 33 8-3-0 6-2-1 6-2-1 Olajuwon, Hou. 5 46 21 113 22.8 
L.A. lakera 5 525 105.0 Tracy Jon., of. Hartford 7 2 47 49 3-2-2 2-2-1 Washington 8 627 104.5 TEXAS (5)-011 Can Boyd. rhp; Brian Downing,
8 16 4-4-0 Hardaway, G.S. 6 49 27 135 22.5 58 Bird, Bos. 133
Boat on 5 7 4 14 54 3-3-1 2-4-3 D-1-1 6 50 30 22.2 Portland 6 622 103.7 of; Rich Goasege. rhp; Geno Patralll, c; John g Boston 6 820 103.3 Ruaaell, c.
Buffalo 5 1 11 38 52 4-3-1 1-6-0 3-4-1 lewis, Bos. 8 52 27 131 21.8 Quebec 3 11 1 7 47 65 3-5-1 D-6-0 1-3.() Drexler, Port. 6 50 22 130 21.7 Utah 514 102.8
5 TORONTO (4)-Jlfn Acker, rhp; Tom Candlonl, N-Jarway 4 4111 102.5 rhp; Oaw Parker, of; Mookle WHaon. of.
Pippen, Chi. 6 46 36 129 21.5 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Millar, Ind. 6 37 42 125 20.8 
Seanle 5 512 102.4 
Cleveland 5 510 102.0 NATIONAL LEAGUE
Norrla Dlvlalon Anderwon, On. 5 40 23 104 20.8 
L.A. Cllpperw 6 611 101.8 ATLANTA (4) -Jifn Clancy, rhp; Otis Nixon, ol; Chicago Orlando 5 509 101.8 AleJandro Pena. rhp; Doug Slak, rhp. 
w L T Pia GF GA Home Away Olv Oumarw, Dot. 5 36 28 104 20.8 8 1 4 20 10 68 6-4-2 2-3-2 D-3-3 Scon,Orl. 5 41 17 104 20.8 De! roll II 8 1 19 71 60 7-4-0 2-4-1 4-4-1 McKay, Sea. 5 38 24 103 20.6 
Datroh 5 500 100.0 CHICAGO (1)-Rick Sl.tcllfle, rhp. 
Miami 4 400 100.0 CINCINNATI (4) -Mariano Duncan, 2b; Carmato Phoenix 6 599 99.8 Martinez, of; Ted Power, rhp; Harm Winningham, 
St. Loul1 8 1 5 17 57 66 4-2-2 2-5-3 2-4-2 
Mlnn•ota 1 8 1 15 50 55 5-3.() 2-5-1 4-1-1 Field Goal Percentage Toronto 5 11 2 12 48 63 5-4-1 D-7-1 4-2-1 FG FGA Pd 
Dallas 8 597 99.5 of. 
Atlanta 5 486 97.2 HOUSTON (2) -Jlfn Oeohalaa. lhp; Rafael HIII,G.S. 25 33 .758 
481 Ramirez, u. Sacramento 5 464 92.8 LOS ANGELES (7)-Alfredo Griffin, u; Oral
Smythe Dlvlalon Barkley, Phil. 43 60 .717 Denver 5 96.2 
VancotMir 12 4 2 28 70 47 7-2-2 5-2-0 8-2-1 Gilliam, Phil. 39 58 .672 
g Minnesota 5 438 87.6 Herwhl19r, rhp; Jay Howell, rhp; Mike Morgan, rhp; 
Calgary 8 2 20 70 55 3-1-0 8-5-2 3-4.() Cage, Sea. 25 39 .641 
Eddie Murrey, 1b; Juan Sarruel. 2b; M•ch
Loa Angeles 8 5 4 20 65 64 3-2-2 5-3-2 3-3-3 Jordan, Chi. 86 136 .632 
Team Oefenae Webster, of. 
Winnipeg 7 7 18 57 62 5-5-1 2-2-3 3-3-2 Ewing, N.Y. 53 84 .831 
Edmonton 8 3 15 G Pia Avg MONTREAL (2) -Mike Fitzgerald, c; Ron9 " 55 71 3-2-2 3-7-1 3-4-2 Grant, Chi. 27 44 .614 
Miami 93.0
San Jose 3 15 0 6 48 93 3-4-0 D-11-0 2-4-0 Polynlca, LAC 27 44 .614 4 312 Hassey, c. Schremp!, Ind. 34 57 .596 
Detroh 5 468 93.6 NEW YORK (3) -Daryl Boston, of; Garry T emplelon, aa; Frank Viola. lhp.
Saturday's Games Curry, Char. 56 84 .595 Minnesota 5 473 94.8 
Boston 4, N-Jerway 0 Monday's Games Williams, Port. 37 Phoenix 6 574 95.7 PHILADELPHIA (6)-Danny Cox, rhp; Steve
22 .595
Winnipeg 6, Loa Angeles 2' 
L.A. Cllpperw 8 578 96.3 Lake, c; Randy Ready, 2b; Rick Schu, In!; Dickie Pittsburgh 3, Minnesota 2 Washington 4, Montreal 2 
Montreal 4, Chicago 2 Rebounding Atlanta 5 485 97.0 Thon, aa; Mhch Wiliams, lhp.
N.Y. Rangerw 3. Pittsburgh 1 
Calgary 8, Toronto 1 G Cll Oaf Ta Avg Denver 5 488 97.6 PITISBURGH (6)-Bobby Bonilla, of; Stave Hartford 4, St. Louis 3 San Antonio 5 488 97.6 Buechele, 3b; Bob Ktwar. lhp; Mike laValliere, c;
Barkley, Phil. 5 28 53 81 16.2
Tuesday's Games 
Edmonton 4, Loa Angeles 4, tie Mutorrbo, Den. 34 81 16.2 SeanIa 5 498 99.6 Bob Walk, rhp; Curtis Wilkerson. sa.
5 47 San Jose 4, N.Y. lalanders 3 Olajuwon, Hou. 5 24 53 n 15.4
Quebec at Hanford, 7:35p.m. 
Chicago 6 598 99.7 ST. LOUIS (1)-Pedro Guerrero, lb. 
Philadelphia at N-Jerwey, 7:35p.m. 
Utah 5 509 101.8 SAN DIEGO (4) -Allee Hammaker, lhp; Jack Cage, Sea. 39 68 13.6

Toronto at Minnesota. 8:05p.m. 5 29 ..
Houston 5 510 102.0 Howell, 3b; Dennis Rasmuaaen. lhp; Tim Teufel, 
Sunday's Gameo Selkaly, Mia. 4 19 35 54 13.5
Detro~ at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
NewYor1< 5 511 102.2 2b.
Wuhlngton 10, Quebec 3 Ellison, Wash. 6 30 45 75 12.5
Buffalo at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
Portland 6 817 102.8 SAN FRANCISCO (3)-Oa\18 Anderwon, aa;
Detroit 6, St. Loula 4 Rodman, Dot. 5 20 37 57 11.4
Loa Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Sacramento 5 527 105.4 Terry Kennedy, c; Don Robinson. rhp. Orlando 5 534 108.8 
Chicago 3, Hartford 0 Coleman, N.J. 4 16 29 45 11.3 
Vancouwr 8, N.Y. Islanders 0 Daugherty. Clev. 5 13 43 56 11.2 
Cleveland 5 536 107.2 Washington 6 645 107.5
Aaalata 
N-Jerway 4 436 109.0
G No. Avg. Stockton, Utah 5 76 15.2 
Milwaukee 6 658 109.3 L.A. lakers 5 552 110.4
Adarrs, Wash. 6 62 10.3
NHL SUMMARIES 
Golden St. 6 665 110.8
Grant, LAC 6 58 9.7 
Philadelphia 5 559 111.8
Hardaway, G.S. 6 53 8.8 At Mont,.al Boston 6 671 111.8

Worthy,LAL 5 42 8.4 Washington 0 3 1---4 At Winnipeg, Manitoba Dawkins, Phil. 5 40 8.0 Indiana 6 an 112.8 
Skiles, Orl. 5 40 8.0

Montreal 1 0 1-2 Loa Angeleo 1 0 1-2 Dallas 6 679 113.2 Flrw1 Perlod-1, Montreal, McP'-5 (GIIchrla1), Winnipeg 3 0 3---6 I. Thomas, Dot. 5 39 7.8 Charlone 6 691 115.2 111:53. 
Firat Perlod-1, Winnipeg, Kennedy 2 (Borsato), 

M. Williams, Ind. 6 46 7.7 Second Perlod-2, Washington, Khrlatlch 11 1:36. 2, Winnipeg. Romanluk 2 (Kennedy, 
Johnson, Phoe. 5 38 7.6 (Hunter, Burridge), 3:18 (pp). 3, Washington, May 4 Essenaa), 2:05. 3, Wlmlpeg, Olczyk 10 (Erickson, (Tippen), 3:48. 4, Washington, Iafrate 4 (Krygier, Housley), 4:03. 4, Loa Angeles, Donnelly 7 (Sydor, Ridley). 8:01. Mcintyre) 10:24. Third Perlod-5, Montreal, Brunet 3 (Schneider), Second Period-None. 
2:17. 6, Washington, Hatcher 4 (Iafrate), 12:51. Third Perlod--5, Loa Angeles, Kudelskl 8 Shota on goal-Washington 7-13-8-28. (Donnelly, Mcintyre), 3:17.8, Winnipeg, Bames 3 Montreal 1D-7-1D-27. (Shannon, Olauason), 5:48. 7, Winnipeg, Barnes 4 Goalleo-Washlngton, Beaupre. Montreal, (Shannon), 12:34. 8, Winnipeg, Barnes 5 (Housley, Melanaon. A-18,112. Olczyk), 19:32 (pp). Shots on goal-Loa Angeles 5-8-11-24. 
At New York Winnipeg 21-6-15---42. Pittsburgh 1 0 D-1 Goaii88---Loa Angeles, Berthiaume, Hrudey. N.Y. RangerwO 1 2-3 Winnipeg, Essenaa A-13,965. 
The gift that ~ 

Firat Perlod--1, Pittsburgh, Lemieux 12 (Mullen, Stevena), 15:48. 
gives hope ltiJJ


Second Perlod--2, N-York, Ogrodnlck 7 (Millen, Amonte), 3:27 (pp). Third Period-3, N-York, Kocur 1 (Leetch), 11i:.45. 4, N-York, Erlxon 2 (Gravea, Mesaler), 
IThe Honor Gift. from the 

19:08. Sholl on goal--Pittsburgh 12-6-11-31. N­York 8-10-12-30. 
fAMERICAN CANCER SOCETY8 

Goellea---Pittaburgh, Barrasso, Young. N-York, 
Thls "J*C conrribun:d u :a pubhc :JCn~ ~· me publuha

Vanbteabrouck. A-18,425. 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
Things are heating up in Florida as showdown nears 
Terrell Buckley learns to let actions speak for him despite the comparisons with Sanders 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­This year, Terrell Buckley will keep both feet on the ground. Last year, he had one of them in his mouth. 
Buckley, the superb Florida State defensive back, is anxious to redeem himself after the em­barrassment his mouth caused him in a 31-22 loss to Miami last year. He'll have that chance Saturday when top-ranked Florida State plays host to the second-ranked Hurricanes. 
Buckley, who leads the nation with nine interceptions this season, was quoted last year as saying that Miami quarterback Craig Erickson was just an av­erage player. 
That statement not only was highlighted in the Hurricane's lockerroom all week, but was replayed on network television just seconds after Lamar Thomas got behind Buckley for a 10-yard touchdown pass that gave Miami a 24-0 lead. 
"It makes you realize what you say," said Buckley, who felt his comments were blown out of proportion. 
"The thing about playing cornerback, you can't be pas­sive back there," Buckley said. "You've got to pick your point. A slow death is harder to take than a quick one." 
This time around, Buckley will be confronted by Miami's explosive receiving corps led by Thomas and Kevin Williams, one of the nation's fastest play­ers, and quarterback Gino Torretta who has replaced the graduated Erickson. 
"When you play Miami, you play the bomb specialists of the world," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said Sunday. "We hope we win more than we lose." 
And Buckley has already won his share against some of the nation's premier receivers this year, Michigan's Desmond Howard, Syracuse's Qadry Ismail, and LSU's Todd Kinchen. 
"That's what it's all about, great player against great player," Buckley said. "Thomas is a competitor and a good re­ceiver, and Williams, well any­body with speed like that is al­
#1 
Florida State 10-0 
vs. 
Miami 
#2 t.\1
9-0 

ways dangerous." 
In less than three seasons, Buckley owns school records for most interceptions in a season and career (18) and his 446 yards in return yardage on in­terception returns is just 24 yards shy of the NCAA career record. 
The 5-foot-10, 175-pound Buckley was a second-team se­lection on last year's Associated Press All-America team. He would appear to be a cinch to join former Seminole cornerbacks LeRoy Butler and Deion Sanders as a first-team pick this season. 
Buckley is smaller than his All-America predecessors, but his 4.35 speed in the 40 rivals that of the flamboyant Deion Sanders. 
"I may only be 175 pounds, but it's muscular, so it figures out to about 190," Buckley said. 
And like Sanders, Buckley also ranks among the country's leading punt return specialists averaging 12.1 yards a return in 76 attempts during his ca­reer. 
"Deion might have had just a fraction more speed, was a little taller and a little bigger, but I don't know that even Deion could change directions or had the great body control that Terrell has got," said defensive coordinator Mickey Andrews. "Both are great athletes, have great desire and are self-moti­vated to become the best they can be." 
Andrews conceded that Buckley often gambles on de­fense, but said that goes with the territory with the great players. 
"It's been my experience that players who can make great plays have a tendency to reach out beyond that point where other kids wouldn't take that chance," Andrews said. "But they can still recover and not be a washout on the play when they take a chance." 
Andrews said he won't talk to Buckley, a junior from Pascagoula, Miss., about his pro future until after the season, but said he wouldn't be surprised if the record-setting cornerback came back for his senior year. 
'-'Terrell is a guy who has a tremendous amount of pride, he came here to get an education and a degree as well as make high marks in football," Andrews said. 
·''I'll be back," said Buckley, regarded a sure-fire first pick by the NFL. "I've been making my own decisions for 12 or 13 years now. I'll rewrite all the records for defensive backs." 
Hurricanes lose two players, including starting fullback, after an altercation lands them in jail 


CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Starting fullback Martin Patton and teammate Jonathan Harris were suspended Monday from the Miami Hurricanes football team after a weekend motorcy­cle accident that led to police to file charges against both of them. 
Coach Dennis Erickson an­nounced the suspension effec­tive immediately. The second­ranked Hurricanes play No. 1 Florida State on Saturday. 
"Martin Patton and Jonathan Harris were involved in inci­dents over the weekend which violate our team policy," Erickson said. "This is not a decision that was made based on whether they are innocent or guilty by law. That issue is sep­arate from the fact that they violated team policy." 
Patton, a 6-1, 196-pound red­shirt junior, was arrested early Sunday after a fight with Coral Gables police officers. He was jailed on charges that included battery to a police officer and resisting arrest with violence. 
Patton was arrested while of­ficers were investigating a mo­torcycle accident involving Harris, a backup wide receiver. He said the fight started when officers pushed him away from an ambulance that was trans­
porting  Harris  to  Doctors  
Hospital.  
Harris  was  treated  for  

scrapes and bruises. Patton in­jured his ribs in the fight. 
"I did not initiate the conflict," Patton said. "It was un­provoked. I think the police of­ficers were angry at Jonathan for riding the cycle and needed to deal with him and let out some frustration." 
Shortly before the accident, Harris was driving at a high rate of speed, police said. 
"He was moving at a very high rate of speed in excess of 
HAPPY 
21st 
BIRTHDAY 
CCrHJIWI~W 
70 mph and he was wearing no helmet," said South Miami Police Capt. Greg Feldman. 
A South Miami police officer followed him but Harris sped up and the officer was forced to give up the chase for safety reasons, he said. 
A short time later, Harris crashed his motorcycle in Coral Gables. 
Patton said he was in the 
football dormitory and heard that Harris had crashed his motorcycle. He said he raced to the scene with several other players. 
At the hospital, the officer who tried to chase Harris charged him with fleeing and eluding police. He issued him a promise-to-appear summons. 
Harris is a reserve wide re­ceiver. 
CBALUNGZ rOURSZLF f 
CLIMB MT.SOUTH BEND 
STAIRHASTJ:R CONTEST 
NOV 13-DZC 10 
pRIZES-AWARDED 
OPEN TO rACUL'l"Y, l'r.&J"J', l"rUD&MTS 
J'Oa MOU IDOIUD.'!'IOW &liD LOG J'OIUIS CDC& 'rD IIOUII'l'A.IN DISPLAYS IW 'I'D I'I'l"DSS 'I'D -.ocJDn um JJLCC,Oil 'fD .SC&7-0a'!S OWI''ICS 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents:

• 
National Players 
America's longest running classical touring company 

MIRACLE 
WORKER 
BYWJLUAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFottune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
" 
Co-Ree Teams-2 Men & 2 Women Open To All Undergrads & Grads Takes Place At The Stadium Range Enter Gate 14 
Tuesday, November 19 4:30 -6:00PM W November 20 4:00 -6:00 PM 
1st Place Team Wins Dinner At Kentucky Fried Chicken 
WASHINGTON HALL 


Tuesday, November 12, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Sed ale Threatt prepares to replace Magic ;:::::::sP==oR==lS==BR==IEF==s========================~ 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Now playing point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers: Sedale Thmatt. 
A smaller version of Magic Johnson? 
"No, no way," Threatt said. "I'm just going to go out and try to distribute the ball, play the way Magic would on the fast break." 
Little did Threatt know on Oct. 2 when he went from Seattle to L.A. for three future second-round draft choices that he'd be the team's starting point guard, what with Magic around. 
But that's the case since Johnson announced last Thursday he was retiring after testing positive for the HIV virus that causes AIDS. 
Like most of his teammates, Threatt didn't do very well Friday night at Phoenix In his first game since Johnson's re­tirement. 
Besides being only 6-foot-2 to Magic's 6-9, Threatt had a very un-Magic like performance -3 points, 2 assists and 2 rebounds in a 113-85 loss. 
But Sunday night against Minnesota, Threatt was much better -27 points, 14 assists and two rebounds in a 96-86 win. 
"The game at Phoenix, we were all real down, so I came out tonight and really wanted to turn it up," Threatt said afterward. "They were s~tting some good picks on the side and I got my shot. I had four turnovers, though. I'm going to have to work on that." 
At age 30, Threatt said he's not under pressure despite the circumstances. 
"If I would have been a rookie in this situation, there would be a lot of pressure," he said. "I'm an old veteran in this league. I know what goes on around here. I'm just going out and trying to win." 
Threatt was a sixth-round draft choice of the Philadelphia 76ers in 1983 after playing at West Virginia Tech. He played more than three seasons with the 76ers before being traded to Chicago, where he played briefly before moving to Seattle. 
Before this season, he aver­aged 8.6 points and a little less than three assists in 544 regu­lar-season games. In live games with the Lakers, he's averaging 17.6 points, 7.6 assists and 5.0 rebounds. 
Threatt came to the Lakers tabbed as a backup to Johnson who would ~so play some at shooting guard. 
He had no qualms about his role. 
"That's the only reason I came here, playing with Magic, no question about it," Threatt said. "He said with me and an­other guy, we could win it all. It was real positive talking to him. 
"It's devastating, really, I just wanted to be a part of all this." Now, he'll be a big part, much bigger than he imagined. 
If Threatt can never be Magic Johnson, he has something in common with the rest of the league's players. Neither will they. 
"Earvin was such a big part of everything we did -he had the ball, we posted him up, a lot of what we did defensively was based on his size and his abil­ity," coach Mike Dunleavy said. 
"We're going to have to do a lot of things differently." 
Like starting Sedale Threatt. 
"He's already done a good 
job," Dunleavy said. "He's going to do a better job for us." 
M 
The family suggests that memorial contributions be made to the American Heart ft American Heart Association:' Association V 
•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted In writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. 

•Football 
equipment return will be this Wednesday and Thursday from 6 to 9 each night. Bring equipment and checkout slips to gate nine of the stadium. Remember, which ever team brings back their equipment first gets first pick next year. 

•The 
"Mt. South Bend" Stairmaster contest begins tomorrow. Interested climbers may obtain necessary information and official log forms in the fitness rooms of the Rockne Memorial and J.A.C.C., or in the Recsports office. 

•ND/SMC 
Equestrian club members: If you intend to show at Ball State this weekend, please call Larissa at 289-7829 or Jen at 283-1715 by tomorrow. 

•Ski 
team/club will have a meeting this Thursday at 7 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland . Remaining payment is due for the trip. Also, sign­up and payment for team tryouts will be taken. Questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089. 

•WVFI 
will have its hockey preview tonight from 8-9 on 640 AM. Call 239-6400 to talk with the ND hockey team, last week's Tennessee game, and the upcoming Penn State contest. 

•The 
NO Tae Kwon Do club would like to congratulate the following students for competing In the Association Tournament on Saturday: Lisa Cabral, Laura Considine, Julianne Gade, Robert Lanchsweerdt, Issa Nesnas and John Rodarte. 

•ND/SMC 
women's field hockey will have practice tonight and tomorrow night at 10 in Loftus. For more info, call Suzanne at 283-2687. 



· CAMPUS MINISTRY... -· 
OFFICE OF 
(Z\MPUS
...CONSIDERATIONS MINISTRY 
A Tradition That Ought To Die 
There are many traditions woven into the fabric of our Notre Dame common life. Morrissey Manorites, dressed up in their best pajamas, eat breakfast cereal out on the quad, early on the morning of the first home football game. Each Spring the gentlemen of Keenan Hall promise once again that this year their Revue will be gentler and kinder than the year before. In late October, someone always puts a pumpkin up on the finger of the Moses statue by the Library so that we will all remember that Halloween is approaching. 
There used to be a tradition at Notre Dame that the only undergraduates who could climb up the main steps of the Administration Building were the Seniors. For the first few weeks of the new school year, burly seniors would stand around the top and bottom of the steps and remind the freshmen and anyone else who forgot over the summertime that the distinction and privilege of using those steps was reserved for seniors only, and as for the rest of us, the lower door would do just fine, thank you. 
These days any scruffy student can use the steps at the Main Building as that previous tradition has died and been forgotten. I wish the same would happen for another Notre Dame experience. 
Last Spring I was going into Club 23, at the corner of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues, when I watched two Notre Dame women, both completely limp, being pulled out the front door of the bar and dragged through the then totally muddy parking lot, to be dumped like two dirty sacks of potatoes into the backseat of somebody's car and returned to campus. 
When I asked around a bit, I was told that these women and their friends had been busy celebrating the girls' 21st birthdays. And as part pf the ritual behavior of the night, the friends had bought the ladies 
about a zillion shots of this and that liquor as a way of showing how much they cared. By the time it was all over, the women were wasted, their dignity and nice clothes trashed, and their friends were nursing headaches and empty wallets. A great tradition --and one that really ought to die. 
nthe truth were known, many times the birthday boy or girl dreads the coming ordeal, and wishes for escape, but doesn't know how to control his or her friends. The friends, supposedly committed to showing how much they care for their buddy, don't want to 
disappoint on this big night. But then maybe the friends may also be just a little too anxious to see their buddy look like a fool and lose all control so they can enjoy some good laughs at his or her expense. 
The wholr tradition is a mistake and ought to die. The Notre Dame family has seen enough tragedy around the issues of excessive drinking that we don't need to plan for even more madness and celebrate abuse. 
When our friends turn 21, let's tell them we love them and take them out to dinner. 
A Newer Tradition 
The Office of Campus Ministry has been trying to reach out to students in off campus housing for the last several semesters. One action which has brought good response has been the offer to help celebrate Eucha'rist in off campus residences. Mass has been said in Campus View, Castle Point, and Lafayette Square Apartments and on Marian, St. Peter and St. Louis streets. Anyone wishing to gather friends together for such a prayer in their home should contact Campus Ministry in the Library for assistance. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 

• 
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991 


• 
Colts' first victory brightens Venturi's life 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Skies were overcast outside the Indianapolis Colts headquarters Monday, but coach Rick Venturi's outlook brightened the room the day after his team's first victory of the season. 
"The sun is certainly shining in Indianapolis today," Venturi said at his first weekly news conference as a winning pro coach. 
The Colts suffered through nine straight losses to open the season, the first five under coach Ron Meyer, before com­ing away with a 28-27 victory over the New York Jets on Sunday. 
"It's a real credit to guys who can survive, who can persist through tough times. Nobody likes to be the butt of jokes," Venturi said. "It's a real credit to guys to be able to fight through that tough period. Anybody can be a frontrunner. 
"I'm basically going to give a game ball to everyone in this building." 
You can bet Eric Dickerson won't be getting one, though, and not just because he wasn't in the building Monday. The talented but insubordinate run­ning back is home in Malibu, 
Sixers win fourth straight, beating Bucks 1 02-99 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Hersey Hawkins scored 21 points and Charles Barkley had 17 points and 15 rebounds as the Philadelphia 76ers won their fourth consecutive game, 102-99 over the Milwaukee Bucks on Monday night. 
The Bucks trailed by as inany as 23 points in the second pe­riod, but closed to 81-80 on a three-point play by Jeff Grayer with 7:05 remaining. 
The 76ers rebuilt their advantage to 89-83, but the Bucks rallied once again, and a 3-pointer by Jay Humphries made it 94-93 with 1:18 left. 
A jumper by Johnny Dawkins and a hook shot by Manute Bol gave Philadelphia a five-point lead with 17 seconds to play, but another 3-pointer by Humphries trimmed Philadelphia's lead to 98-96 with 11 seconds left. 
Two free throws. each by Armon Gilliam and Dawkins completed the scoring. 
Milwaukee, which got 20 points from Moses Malone 18 by Dale Ellis, trailed 63-43 one minute into .the second half, but Alvin Robertson scored six points during a 12-2 spurt, closing the Bucks within 10 with 5:49 remaining in the third period. 
Do it out of respect for the dead.. d the living. 
American Heart A Association V 
Calif., sitting out a four-week suspension Venturi handed down last week after Dickerson left a practice early. He also was fmed one week's pay in ad­dition to the four weeks' pay he'll lose with the suspension. 
Venturi moved up the timing of his news conference Monday, possibly to catch a plane. The Indianapolis News reported he, general manager Jim Irsay and four other members of the Colts organization were flying on team owner Robert Irsay's plane to San Francisco for an arbitration hearing Tuesday. 
Venturi refused to discuss Dickerson or the report. "I really don't want to talk about it," he said. 
The Colts' only comment came in a brief statement: "Pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agree­ment, Eric Dickerson has re­quested expedited arbitration with respect to his fine and suspension, and the Indianapolis Colts have agreed. The Colts expect the arbitrator to uphold the club's position." 
On "The Eric Dickerson 
Show" broadcast Monday on 
local radio station WIBC, the 
,--------------------~ 
running back said he had watched part of the Colts' vic­tory via satellite. He said he also watched an episode of "Star Trek." 
"I thought they played hard, and I'm glad they won. No mat­ter what, I'm still a part of that team, and I want to win," Dickerson said. 
"I talked to a couple of play­ers yesterday. They were happy. They were like, 'I can't believe we won,~ Dickerson said. 
Equally hard to believe was that the Colts scored four touchdowns after going five games without managing even one. Jessie Hester scored on a 49-yard pass from Jeff George with 1:07 left in the first half. Clarence Verdin then returned the kickoff to open the second half 88 yards to tie the score 14-14. 
"It's uplifting," Verdin said Monday while strolling through the building. "We ended the first half with a touchdown and we opened the half with a touchdown. 
"It feels good just to be cele­brating a win. It's not like we won the Super Bowl around here," Verdin said. 
GRADUATING 

Jets beat Kings 6-2 
WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP)­The Winnipeg Jets chased Los Angeles goaltender Daniel Berthiaume with three goals in the first 4:03 and rookie Stu Barnes had a hat trick in a 6-2 victory on Monday. 
Dean Kennedy scored just 
1:36 into the game and Russ Romaniuk 29 seconds later. Then Ed Olczyk finished a nifty passing play by tapping in a rebound from in front of the net for his lOth goal. 
Kelly Hrudey replaced Berthiaume and the Kings got back in the game with goals by Mike Donnelly and Bob Kudelski. But Barnes scored three times in the final 14:12 as the Jets snapped a six-game winless streak. 
Capitals 4, Canadiens 2 
MONTREAL Dmitri Khristich started a three-goal outburst early in the second period as Washington downed Montreal in a showdown be­tween two of the NHL's hottest teams. 
Khristich, Alan May and Al Iafrate scored in a 2:43 span to turn a 1-0 deficit into a 3-1 lead. Kevin Hatcher added an insurance goal in the third pe­riod as as Washington (13-4-0) won for the fifth time in six games. 
Mike McPhee and Benoit Brunet scored for Montreal (14-5-1), which lost for the second time in its last three games after winning nine in a row. 
Rangers 3, Penguins 1 
NEW YORK -Joe Kocur's controversial tie-breaking goal with 4:15 remaining helped New York beat Pittsburgh. 
Kocur took a drop pass from Brian Leetch and ripped a shot from the low slot that headed for the far corner. It went past goaltender Tom Barrasso's glove, through the mesh and bounced off to the side, appearing as if it had missed the net. But the Rangers protested, and after consulting with the replay official, referee Terry Gregson allowed the goal to stand. 
The Rangers added the clincher on Jan Erixon's goal with 54 seconds left. 
MIS & CAPP SENIORS 
Put Yoursell In The Picture 
ReceptionWednesday, November 13 5pm-7pm Dooley Room, Lafortune 
On-campus Interviews Thursday, November 14 
a creative, highly aware, focused 
'"know'" "" Moxwell Hou,.
coffee, Jell-0 gelatin, Miracle Whip, Velveeta cheese, Kool-Aid, Philadelphia Brand cream cheese, Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Claussen pickles, Tombstone pizza and Entenmann's cookies -to name a few. We're Kraft General Foods, a familiar sight in almost every American home ­and millions ofothers worldwide. Meet the people behind the products. 
KGF's representatives are coming to talk with graduating seniors interested in a postion in Information Systems within the Chicagoland area. Ifyou're go-getter, stop by the Reception/Pizza Party. Dress attire is casual. We are eager to discuss challenges and choices with May Graduates who have a background in one of the following areas: 
• MIS 
•CAPP There's a world of opportunities at Kraft General Foods. So please visit with us -and what you'll hear could lead to a very colorful career. Look 
for us on campus this fall. An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer. 

KRAFT GENERAL FOODS 
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES 



Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
IU gets #1 seed in NCAA soccer 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Indiana, coming off its Big Ten tournament championship, re­ceivnd one of the four top seeds in the NCAA soccllr tourna­mnnt, which gets underway this wellkend. 
Indiana, 17-2-2, gets a first­round bye and faces the winner of the Evansville-Wisconsin game. Evansville plays at Wisconsin Sunday. 
Indiana will host the second­round match on Sunday, Nov. 24, at 12:30 p.m. in Bill Armstrong Stadium. 
Indiana defeated Wisconsin (16-3-1) 2-0 Sunday in the Big Ten tournament final, avenging a 1-0 loss to the Badgers during the regular season. 
Indiana last met Evansville (15-4-3) in the NCAA quarterfi­nals last year. when the Purple Aces claimed a 1-0 win at Evansville to go to the Final Four. 
"It's one of the two biggest rivalries we have had," Indiana coach Jerry Yeagley said. "We have had a two-year cooling off with Evansville because the competition got a little bit too keno. I'd certainly like to have a chance to host them here." 
Hey ND! What are you doing tonight? Meet us at the bars. Happy 21st Randi! Love, your 
•
rooDlles. 
Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend November 22-23-24 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 & 8 p.m., Sunday 2 p.m. E.S.T. Tickets: $12.50 to $26.50 Box Office Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday 
and until curtain on show days. Phone (219) 284-9190 MasterCard &VISA Accepted Group, Student &Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
Special Student Offer: 2 Tickets for the Price of One-$16.50 (Sunday Matinee Only)

L-------------------------­

-
The Observer page 17 
Book is critical of Jordan 
CHICAGO (AP} -A soon-to­be-published book contends Michael Jordan told the Chicago Bulls not to pass the ball to a teammate in the closing minutes of games and once punched a teammate in the head during practice, a pub­lished report said. 
"The Jordan Rules," by Chicago Tribune sportswriter Sam Smith, will soon be pub­lished by Simon & Schuster. The Chicago Sun-Times said in a column in Monday's editions that it had obtained an advance copy. 
The book reportedly details the infighting the Bulls over­came to win the NBA title and is advertised as "an inside story of a turbulent season." 
According to the Sun-Times account, the book reports that Jordan warned teammates against passing the ball to cen­ter Bill Cartwright in the final four minutes of a game. 
"If you do, you'll never get the ball from me," Jordan re­portedly said. 
The book also reports that Jordan slugged backup center Will Perdue during practice. 
Jordan has seen galley proofs of the book. The Sun-Times re­
. File Photo 
ported that his only comment
Michael Jordan goes to the hoop around Greg K1te last season. 
Magic 
continued from page 20 
other AIDS organizations, said Weinstein. 
Meanwhile, black churches, which have been criticized for skirting discussions of AIDS, vowed Monday to tackle the is­sue head-on. • 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson called for ministers across the country to "re-emphasize the historic message of the historical value of an ethical lifestyle." He called on celebrities and sports figures also to speak up for a "new national attitude towards safety." 
Pastors at black churches in Washington, Houston, Miami, St. Louis and other cities across the country said they planned sermons, seminars and other works for their congregations to address AIDS. 
The Rev. M. Andrew Robinson-Gaither, pastor of the 200-member Faith United Methodist Church in South Central Los Angeles, said dis­cussions of AIDS have posed 
l,urrlut"t' Tid... dt' nt l.nl-'orhuw Uu-, (\ITi.·t• 
.-~~~~~~~~w~--~~~~~~~~---~--~~~~~~~~---~--~~~~~~~~W~MWW~M.,_WW~II Notre Dame football would be
nothing without the fans. 
problems for black preachers because it relates to the tricky issue of sexuality. 
"I think some of us will be a little more open and less judg­mental," said Robinson-Gaither, whose church has had an AIDS program since 1987. "I want to believe that. I'm praying for that. I think we will lose a whole generation of people from this disease if the church doesn't become the focal point in the community on this issue." 
The fallout from the Johnson announcement also rippled through the business world. 
The Target Stores discount chain, based in Minneapolis, decided against airing a com­mercial featuring Johnson be­cause its lighthearted tone might appear insensitive, the company said. 
"The commercials ... are very Magic -very lighthearted, frolicky and whimsical," said George Hite, the company's vice president of public and con­sumer affairs. 
"We looked at those spots and in light of the virus it might be insensitive to run these spots because the virus he has is not was, "A lot of things appeared that were said in confidence." 
On Monday, Jordan told a lo­cal television station that the book's accounts are wrong. 
"If I'm going to get knocked off this pedestal, I'm going to make sure I do something to be knocked-off," he said. ''I'm not going to let someone else knock me off for no apparent reason or comments that I didn't say." 
Attempts by The Associated Press for further comment from Jordan were unsuccessful. A phone message left at Jordan's agent's office was not returned. 
Forward Horace Grant, who occasionally is critical of Jordan. denied the incidents de­scribed by the Sun-Times' re­port of the book. 
"It's untrue, all of that stuff is untrue. It's a whole bunch of nonsense," Grant said. 
Tribune spokesman Jeff Bierig said the newspaper had not received a copy of the book. The Tribune would not provide a home telephone number for Smith but agreed to call him: he did not call The Associated Press on Monday. 
funny." 
The Target campaign is called "Electronics, Like Magic" and focuses on the sale of electronics equipment. The campaign was set to end in December. Hite said he did not know if Johnson's contract would be renewed after that. 
But in Los Angeles, The Broadway chain of 43 Southern California stores ran full-page ads for sportswear Monday with the message: "We believe in Magic." 
The ad said that a percentage of the proceeds from the Magic Johnson line of gear would go to HIV research. 
Jo Lawley, vice president of marketing for The Broadway, said that after Johnson's an­nouncement the chain worked out an arrangement with shirt maker American Marketing Works by which $1 to $2 per shirt would be donated to re­search. 
"Everybody was really con­cerned about how we could do something that expresses how everybody feels," she said. 
Salute 
continued from page 20 
their heads (and helmets) and 
thank the fans for their support 
throughout the entire season. 
Picture Notre Dame Stadium 
on a blustery fall day. The skies 
are blue, the wind is chilly. and 
the Irish take to the field of 
battle. But wait, the entire stu­
dent section is empty. No rowdy 
fans, no "Lou" cheer, no noise, 
no enthusiasm. 
It's a scary thought. 
Imagine how the football players would feel facing fourth-and goal, going for the winning touchdown, and hear­ing only the quarterback's sig­nals, nothing more. What a sad picture this would be. Well, that emptiness is what the seniors must feel right now, after being deserted by the players. Last year at this time, the juniors must have thought, "Wow, what a shock, but that won't happen to us." 
Guess again. The football team should re­alize that the students would survive without football, but 
---------------~~ 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
ATP Champs are warm-up for Davis says Agassi 
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) -Defending his title at the ATP Tour World Championships will be only a warmup for Andre Agassi. 
"It's very important, but the the Davis Cup is more impor­tant than anything· else this year," Agassi said Monday. 
Agassi will lead the United States in the Davis Cup final against France Nov. 29-Dec. 1 at Lyon. 
"I am looking forward to the Davis Cup final and I wasn't all that concerned about being here or not,"' Agassi said. 
Agassi has dropped to No. 8 in the world rankings. and at one point was in danger of not qualifying for the showcase tournament of the top eight players in the world. 
The $2.25 million tournament is the year-ending event on the Association of Tennis Professionals circuit. The win­ner can collect as much as $1.08 million. 
The eight players are split into two groups, playing each other under a round-robin format with the top two in each group advancing into the semi­finals. 
Stefan Edberg. No. 1 in the world, withdrew because of a knee injury, forcing organizers to reshuffle the two groups. 
Agassi's group now consists of Germans Boris Becker and Michael Stich, the Wimbledon champion, and Pete Sampras, the other singles player on the 
U.S. Daivs Cup team. 
Edberg's withdrawal left Jim Courier, the French Open champion who has risen to No. 2 in the world, the top seed. His group rivals are Ivan Lend!, Guy Forget and Karel Novacek, the Czechoslovak who replaced Edberg. 
Unlike most of the other top players, Agassi skipped a series of European indoor tourna-
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
Conference champion, most likely No. 15 Clemson. 
The Cotton, Orange, Sugar, Fiesta and Citrus bowls are played on New Year's Day, while the Blockerbuster is Dec. 28. 
The Orange offers the most money ($4.2 million per team), followed by the Sugar ($3.6 million), Cotton ($3.1 million), Fiesta ($2 million), Blockbuster ($1.8 million) and Citrus ($1.35 million). However, the Blockbuster may increase its payout to $3 million per team to get a more attractive pairing. 
Bowl and school officials wouldn't allow their names to be used because agreements aren't supposed to be made be­fore 3 p.m. EST Sunday. Bowls that violate the rule are subject to a $250,000 fine by the Football Bowl Association. 
The new penalty is designed to discourage early bowl commitments, but it apparently isn't working because the sanctions don't apply to schools. 
"The institutions are calling the bowls for commitments and the bowl guys are jumping the gun just like they did last year," said Jim Brock, executive vice president of the Cotton Bowl. 
ments and stayed home in Las Vegas. 
"I feel that as the defending champion I should have been able to qualify directly for this event," Agassi said. "But even if I had failed to make it, I would have been happy to concentrate on the Davis Cup. 
"I was burned out, I played more tournaments this year. But now that I am here, it's very important to me." 
Agassi was drawn to play Becker in his opening match Tuesday. In other matches, Courier faces Novacek and Lend! plays Forget. 
Agassi has played 17 tour­naments this year, Jess than most of the other top players, and said Monday that he would skip the Australian Open, the first Grand Slam event of 1992. 
"I need to get recharged, re­freshed and refocused," he said. "This year hasn't been anything that I'd hoped for." 
Agassi's ATP win in 1990 was the biggest of his career, vault­ing him to No. 4 in the world. He won tournaments at Orlando and in Washington in 1991, but had a disappointing Grand Slam season. 
He was runner-up for the second straiglit year in the 


SEMINAR ON BUSINESS.FACULTY CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS, SENIORS AND JUNIORS IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 

Cou.soa01' BuSINESS ADMIN~STPJ.nON UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NoTa.& DAME. INDIANA. o46556 
ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
What's involved in becoming a business professor1 What are the academic qualifications and requirements1 How long does it take1 How much does it cost1 Are scholarships available1 other financial help1 What are the starting salaries and trends1 What are the career satisfactions from teaching, 
research, and service1 How much control over your life do you have1 If I am interested, what are the next steps to take1 
I invite you to join the College's faculty and other interested students for brief faculty presentations and a panel discussion. I hope to see you there. This meeting just might make you consider an entirely different career! Please join us. 
Dean John G. Keane 
French Open, reached the quar­terfinals in his first Wimbledon since 1987 and lost in the first round of the U.S. Open. 
With a poor second half of the year, Agassi needs to do well here or he could drop out of the top 10 for the first time since 1988. 
" This year ... showed me what I need to do on my game, how much more work I need to become more consistent," Agassi said. 
Agassi spent the past few weeks practicing with U.S. col­legians and said he was "feeling great." 
''My group is not going to be easy, but that's the world championships," he said. 
Agassi has won his last four matches against Becker, includ­ing the semifinal at the French Open. 
"I play well against him ... but he also plays well against me," Agassi said. 
Becker said he was fully re­covered from a flu that forced him to drop out of the Paris Open two weeks ago. 
"I am fully fit, I've been training hard," said Becker, this year's Australian Open champion. 

Andre Agassi, here playing at the US Open, says that he will AP File Photo use this week's ATP Champs as a warm-up for the Davis Cup. 
NOVEMBER 15. 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12,4:15 PM ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
_T_ue_s_d_a_y_,N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_1_2,_1_9_9_1________________________________T_h_e_O__bs_e_N_e_r______________________________________________p_a_g_e_1__9 ~ 
THE FAA SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAA SIDE GARY LARSON 
IF -nlf...T BlJLL'{ IS ootn tXl TIIAT! \F Mot. MOO't.'i, I'M GOI~G TO FINOS 0\J\ I s:)J£A\..£D, CAlL~~ t'M f... GOO't.P. ! 5:.~ J\t-ID Pu\ N-.1 EN\> 
"Oh, you think that's something? See this scar right here ... that's from one nasty IIHie dlk-dlk." 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
6 p.m. Presentation/Reception for MBA students interested
5 Chemical suffix 
in discovering career opportunities with Kidder Peabody and
6 Say at great 

1ength Co., Inc. Main Lounge, University Club. • 7 Placards 7 p.m. Film, "You Only Live Twice." Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 Statute 
9:15p.m. Film, "Notorious." Annenberg Auditorium. 
9 -libre 10 Type style
11 TrickPd (2 wds.) 
LECTURES 
12 Antiseptic 15 Involving punish-
Tuesday
ment 17 Prevent 20 ~ibbon 
23 Mythological 4 p.m. Lecture, "The Gaza Strip: Problems and Prospects,"
creature 
Haim Gordon, Ben Gurion University of Negev, Beer-Sheva,
24 Having a chat 
27 Relative of the Israel. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. civet 
28 Small songbirds 31 Part of TGIF 33 Comedian Louis ­
Wednesday
36 Israeli dances 37 Hardy and North 38 Stool 39 Obvious ,'y factual noon Lecture, "Mexico after the 1991 Election: Consolidation 
statements of Authoritarianism or Transition to Democracy," Adolfo
40 Longer and leaner 
Aguilar Zinser, of the Center for the Studies of the U.S. National
41 Brain cell 
42 Thrown out Autonomous University of Mexico. Sorin Room, LaFortune. 43 Coin inscriptions ©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8716 46 Container 
49 Throw into dis-MENU order ACROSS 26 Black cuckoo 52 Shakespeare's river, 51 Leverets Notre Dame 
27-Mills et al. 53 Gyrate 
29 -de France 54 India-55 Points in geometry1 Like test scores, 


30 Like·some test 55 Travesty 57 Young pigsometimes 59 Region of India
graders 56 Mexican shawls Caribbean BBQ Chicken
7 Street workers 
32 Wrench 58 Ph11i ppi ne
13 Famous gangster Beef Stew over Biscuits
34 Razing material headhunters
14 Fierce feline Mushroom Quiche 
35 Be nosy 60 Shoot over again
15 Paralyzes 36 Position of uneasi-61 Geological period16 Like a zebra 
ness (2 wds.) 62 Unusual feats
18-Island 40 Compared 63 Saint Mary's 
Like relief work
19 -Ballou 
44 Ending for pay DOWN21 Cubic meter 
45 Asian headdresses22 "Untouchables" 
47 Miss Gabor 1 Type of triangle Herbed Baked Chicken 
character 
23 Frolic about 48 Menu item 2 Summons (2 wds.) Beef & Bean Chimichangas 
25 Do newspaper 50 Feeling regret 3 Orbital point Cheese Ravioli work 51 French for eight 4-Lane 
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, November 12, 1991 
Players should salute the students after losses too 



Notre Dame is an institution filled with tradition. 
From plaid-clad alumni to the stoic Irish guard, from officer Tim McCarthy's playful exhortations on responsible 


drinking fo the Jennifer Marten melodious strains of the Irish band, every home football game provides an opportunity to experience the Notre Dame mystique. 
One of the more meaningful traditions involves the rapport between the football team and the faithful student body, which braves any inconvenience to support their team wholeheartedly. 
At the end of every home game, as the team walks off the field (usually in triumph), the players loft their golden helmets into the air as a sign of their appreciation for the students' support. 
Last year. the unthinkable happened. Twice. 
Not only did the Irish lose the last home game when a victory was well within their grasp, disappointing and shocking their fans, but then they did the unthinkable, an act of high infidelity at this University. 
The shamed players simply walked off the field, ignoring the students, helmets lowered in humble defeat. This is some­thing the fans are not used to, as the Irish have only lost three home games in the last five years. However, on each of these occasions, starting with last year's Stanford loss, the team simply bee-lined for the locker room. 
The act was a total shock to the student ' Jdy, the massive die-hard Irish 
Reports have Notre Dame headed to Sugar Bowl 
(AP) -Notre Dame is headed lose to No. 8 Penn State on the Colorado-Notre Dame title where the Florida State-Miami Alabama. to the Sugar Bowl. Penn State Saturday. No. 5 Florida can game on NBC. loser would go. There has been speculation will play Tennessee in the clinch the outright Southeastern Sources also said Penn State On Monday, however, sources that the Cotton Bowl would shy Fiesta Bowl and Florida State Conference title -and the will meet No. 10 Tennessee in said Florida State was leaning away from Miami because of will probably go to the Cotton automatic Sugar Bowl berth the Fiesta regardless of what toward the Cotton Bowl if it the Hurricanes' heavily criti­Bowl if it loses to Miami, several that goes with it -by beating they do this weekend. The loses to Miami. The other cized behavior in last year's bowl and school sources said Kentucky this week. Volunteers play Mississippi on Cotton bid goes to the game against Texas. But Monday. One source said the Sugar Saturday. Southwest Conference champ, sources said Monday that the 
Although official announce­Bowl was even willing to take After Notre Dame lost to which will be Texas A&M if the Cotton might invite Miami again ments won't be made until Notre Dame (8-2) with three Tennessee, it became clear that 13th-ranked Aggies can win if the Hurricanes lose to Florida Sunday, most major matchups losses because of its television the winner of Saturday's game two of their last three games. State. apparently fell into place after drawing power and the fact that between No. 1 Florida State and If Florida State beats Miami, Sources also said that No. 6 Notre Dame's 35-34 loss to the Irish haven't been to New No. 2 Miami would play the Big sources said, the Hurricanes California appears to be headed Tennessee on Saturday. Orleans in 11 years. The Sugar Eight champion -either No. 11 will end up in the Cotton or to the Citrus Bowl for a meeting 
Sources said Notre Dame will got poor TV ratings on ABC last Nebraska or No. 16 Colorado -Blockbuster Bowl. Whichever of with the Atlantic Coast play Florida in the Sugar Bowl year when its Tennessee­in the Orange Bowl. those bowls doesn't get Miami even if the 12th-ranked Irish Virginia telecast competed with What wasn't clear then was will probably invite No. 7 see BOWL/page 18 
Bush may add Magic to AIDS group 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The he was HIV positive are just Johnson. Bush administration is consid­starting to be felt: Many of the pledges came in ering naming Magic Johnson to -an AIDS telethon, given a amounts of $32 in honor of the National Commission on boost by Johnson, raised $1 Johnson, who wore jersey No. AIDS to replace commission million; 32 for 12 years with the Los 

.. member Belinda Mason, who -Black churches nationwide Angeles Lakers. He announced recently died from the disease, began to confront questions of Thursday he had tested HIV­according to a published report. whether they've done enough to positive and was retiring im­The Los Angeles Times re­address the AIDS issue frankly; mediately from the NBA team. ported Monday that some -the 463-store Target dis­"It was an earthquake," said Washington officials said there count store chain said it would Michael Weinstein, president of was great support for the pull a commercial starring the AIDS Healthcare former NBA superstar to head Johnson as inappropriate; Foundation, which sponsored the 15-member AIDS commis­-the Broadway department the telethon. "We went back to sion. store chain said in full-page ads corporations that had said, 'No,' "I cannot think of a more that some proceeds from on Friday and raised many wonderful appointment that Johnson-oriented sweat shirt thousands of dollars more. It could be made than to have sales would go to HIV research. just -sort of created a spirit him," said Dr. June E. Johnson, The first AIDS CableThon, where everybody wanted to who chairs the commission. carried by 60 California cable help and wanted to give." Johnson left for a vacation on stations Sunday, picked up The foundation will use some Monday and could not be hundreds of thousands of dol­of the money for its two hos­reached for comment. lars more in pledges than ex­pices and three clinics and do­The effects of Johnson's an­pected, and organizers Monday nate the rest of the funds to nouncement last Thursday that credited the response to
to fill a vacancy on an AIDS commission. see MAGIC/page 17 


A.P File Photo 






