
WWf~,~&~t
.Q.&a 
---lf!·--­
IU2·1992 
USQUICINIINNIM 

eObserver 
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1991 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Temporary hiring freeze now in effect at Arts & Letters 
By MONICA YANT the college remains to be seen. to traditionally large 
News Editor While the college has been enrollments. gradually adding positions as "Right now, no job offer can part of a live-year plan to bal­be made for any position [in 
1\ $425.000 "budgetary ance an increasing number of 1992-931," Attridge said. 
glitch" has caused a temporary students. this situation might Possible effects of the hiring hiring fnwzl' in the College of limit such hiring, Attridge said. freeze include fewer course of­Arts and Lnttnrs. according to Eight professors were added ferings and increasing class !>nan Harold 1\.ttridgn. last year in accordance with the sizes in sections that are below Tlw l"reezn targets the live-to­live-year plan. Before the bud­their size limit, Attridge said. tim rww faeulty positions antic­get problem was detected, the The freshman writing pro­ipatnd for the 1992-9:{ aca­college anticipated adding an­gram and sophomore Core dnmk year. If the budget situa­other five-to-ten faculty mem­course program are two areas tion is not stabilized, it is pos­bers for the 1992-93 academic which could see reduced sec­sibln that the only hiring for the year, according to Attridge. tions and larger classes if no eollegn nl'xt year would be for There are between 315-320 new teachers are hired, he said. unfilled positions that havn al­faculty positions authorized in The typical class limit for rnady benn fundnd. lw said. the budget. The college is al­freshman seminar sections is 
Thn hiring frnezn could be ready close to capacity, with 18. The Core course and fresh­liftnd at thn Pnd of the month if 308 on stan· this year. man composition and literature budget evaluation indicates that "Pmsonally, there is a need are generally no larger than 20 the Collcgr~ of Arts and Lntters for new positions in government students per class, according to is "operating in tlw black," said and English, where there are Attridge. Provost Timothy O'Meara. heavy enrollments," Attridge Upper-level classes will most 
How thn budgnt situation and said. The philosophy, theology, likely be unaffected by the hir­hiring fn~nze will a!Tnct the ap­and history departments also ing freeze, Attridge said. But proximatnly 2,400 students in need additional professors due see BUDGET I page 9 
McKenna elected Board of Trustees chairman 
Special to The Observer fund-raising campaign in the 
1980. hail from the Chicago area. The history of Catholic higher edu­McKenna acted as chairman McKennas are the parents of cation, increased its number of of the Chicago White Sox during seven children and the grand­
The Board of Trustees of the 
endowed faculty positions to his group's ownership of that parents of fourteen. 
UnivrHsity of Notre Dame 
more than 100, and seen its organization from 197 5-81 and Keough served as national Friday elcctnd Father Edward student body become one of the served as chairman of the chairman of the University'sMalloy to a second five-year 20 most selective in the U.S. board of the Chicago Cubs from Strategic Moment fund-raising
tl!rm as President of the 
Also during the Malloy years, 1981-84 following the club's campaign. which raised more University and elected Andrew 
Notre Dame's minority student purchase by Tribune Company. than $463 million to rank as the McKenna of Winnetka, Illinois, population has more than dou­He continues to serve as a most successful campaign ever to beeome the fourth chairman 
bled. the presence of women at director of the Cubs and joined in Catholic higher education. of Notre Dame's trustees, suc­all levels in the University-stu­the board of directors of the The campaign alone generated
ceeding Donald Keough. 
dents, faculty, staff and offi­Chicago Bears in May 1985. more funds than had been 
Both appointments are effec­
cers-has expanded signifi­McKenna is president and raised in the entire previoustivr' June 1, 1992. cantly, and a major effort in in­chief executive officer of history of Notre Dame,
Andrew McKenna 

The board also elected ternational outreach is under Schwarz Paper Company, a na­spanning more than 140 years. 
University Provost Timothy position was first created. He
way. tional distributor of paper Keough has been a Notre
also is a Fellow of the
O'Meara and Executive Vice 
Keough will continue as a packaging and allied products Dame trustee since 1978 and President Father E. William Notre Dame trustee. He has University and in .1989 was and also a printer and con­also is a Fellow of the
awarded an honorary doctor of
Beauchamp to new five-year been chairman of the board verter of paper products. He University. The parent of five 
tHrms beginning June 1. laws degree. He and his wife,
since 1986 and presided over joined the firm in 1955 and has Notre Dame graduates, he is a
Joan, endowed the McKenna
O'Meara has been the the selection of Malloy as pres­been its president since 1964. former chairman of the 
Univnrsity's second-ranking chair in psychology in 1990.
ident following the 35-year He also is chairman of Group 11 University's Sorin Society,
The new chairman graduated
officer since 197 8, and tenure of Father Theodore Communications, a Franklin, whose members each con­
Beauchamp took office with from Notre Dame in 1951 with
llesburgh. Wis.-based sales promotion tribute a minimum of $1,000 a 
Malloy in June 1987. a bachelor of science degree in
McKenna has served as vice agency. year in unrestricted gifts. 
During Malloy's initial term as chairman of the University's business administration and McKenna is the third of Notre A 1949 graduate of Creighton president. the University marketing and has been a
trustees since 1986, when the Dame's four board chairmen to 
completed the most successful trustee of the University since see TRUSTEES I page 4 
Keane lectures at Moscow State 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Keane said. "They have to Assistant News Editor design as they go." The Soviets also have diffi­culty with the notion of individ­John Keane, dean of the ND ual ownership. aceording to 
College of Business Keane. While they ean compre­Administration, is lecturing to a hend the notion of ownership of new group of students this property, "the idea of owning week-at Moscow State ideas. sueh as books or music, University. is mueh more difficult (for 
Keane, the Howard and them(," he said. Geraldine Korth Chair and Moscow State University was Martin Gillen Dean of the founded in 1755. Approximately 
College, is conducting lectures 30,000 students eurrently
John Keane 

and seminars this week on the attend the school. Soviet
clock opportunity to rub
capitalist system. He views this President Mikhail Gorbaehev is
shoulders" with the Moscow 
as a chance to "see first-hand a graduate of Moscow State's
State faculty, Keane said. 
how the political, economic and Law School. 
When Keane first visited the

social forces are changing" in 
Soviet Union in 1987, he said he 
the Soviet Union. One of the plaees Keane plans
could see the beginnings of
Keane also sees this as a part to visit is the McDonald's
change in the Soviet Union.
oF the "internationalization" of restaurant in Moscow. Keane
However, "the speed and
the ND faculty and student believfls that the home of the
breadth of the change has been 
body. "Big Mac" can provide Soviet
astonishing," he said. 
"How can we tell our students students a lirst-hand look at the
According to Keane, one big

to be more international lin Western style of business
difficulty the Soviets face when
their perspective) if we don't do management.
trying to adopt a Western-style
it ourselves'?" Keane said. 

economy is the fact that they
lie will stay with members of Keane also wants "to sec if
have no model to follow.
the Moscow State faculty. which the lines (at the restaurant) are
"There's no on-the-shelf piece 

will provide him "a round-the-as long as they say," he said. 
of software for them to go by," 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
ND/SMC should 'WRAP" up against porn 
Last Friday Diann had------­an anniversary. Five years ago she was kidnapped from her home in the east after letting a seemingly innocent stranger inside. 
For 24 hours the attacker raped and tortured her before he threw her over a 50-foot embankment. Diann was found naked, bound, and ------­gaged in sub-zero degree weather, about eleven minutes from death. 
Diann and her husband immediately moved from the east to my hometown. 
Two year ago her attacker committed suicide and was identified as one of the worst serial killers in history. None of the other 18 female victims survived. 
The killer's history revealed pornography use. 
This week Diann joins the nation in the White Ribbon Against Porn (WRAP) Campaign for Anti-Pornography Week. 
Obscenity, a substantial part of which is controlled by organized crime, is the legal term for hard-core pornography. It is against the law in 43 of the 50 states. 
Probably everyone has looked at an obscene magazine or film at least once, but not everyone realizes the danger of repeated use. 
The connection between pornography and sex offenders is proven. Most rapists and serial killers are unable to hold relationships with others and are incapable of emotional intimacy with women. 
They are "turned on" by seeing women hurt and humiliated. They have many mis­conceptions that women really like to be controlled . overpowered, and subjugated. To them, "no" does not really mean "no." 
These attitudes are not inbred-they are learned. Pornography reinforces the temp­tation for men to view women as sex objects. 
Regular viewers tacitly condone violence against women. Some have become warped enough to believe that the women on the porn screen are realistic representations of three­dimensional human beings. 
Real men have real relationships with real women. Pornography users, whether the medium be phone, photo or film, do not have such relationships. 
Fifty cities currently display "Real Men Don't Use Porn" billboards in support of the anti-pornography campaign. Pictured in the advertisements are real men like Washington Redskins defensive end Charles Mann. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame can partici­pate in the campaign by "WRAP"-ing our campuses in white ribbons. 
What happened to Diann can happen to your mother, your sister, your girlfriend or anyone else who falls victim to someone under the influence of pornography. Express your personal and community standards that reject obscenity. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's staff:  Lab Tech:  
Production:  Jake Peters  
Melissa Cusack  Systems:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Cesar Capella  
Sports:  Jon Halloran  
Rich Kurz  Pat Barth  
News:  Accent:  
Paul Pearson  Jahnelle Harrigan  
Julie Barrett  Cheryl Moser  
Viewpoint:  Laurie Sessa  
Jessca Trobaugh  Photography:  
Ad Design:  John Rock  
Molly Belden  Andrew McCloskey  
Kathy Benz  Tim Farrish  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
FORECAST: 

Today, windy and 
mild with a60 
percent chance of 
rain. Highs in the 
mid 60s and lows in 
the mid 50s. TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 

St. Louis San F ranclsco Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C. 
H 
69 
74 
55 
43 
65 
74 30 
62 86 
84 
69 57 68 66 
84 
83 52 
58 
56 
60 
72 65 
47 
65 68 
58 
L 
54 
56 
46 
36 
50 54 
t5 
44 72 
63 
52 50 54 46 72 68 40 
48 
42 
48 
54 49 
32 
56 56 
44 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
•Prague, zechoslovakia-Two years after throwing out the Communists, democratic leaders are bickering about the free market, how to punish their predecessors and whether the Czechoslovak union should survive. Even President Vaclav Havel, symbol of the "Velvet Revolution" that ousted the Communists, is succumbing to a national mood of pessimism. As Czechoslovakia plunges into economic recession and confronts separatism in its eastern third, Slovakia, Havel and other former dissidents are under pressure from the tough free-market radicalism espoused by Finance Minister Vaclav Klaus. Klaus is especially forceful in trying to end the influence of Old Communists, who remain powerful in state industry and are resented for their ability to use connections for a successful leap into private business. 
NATIONAL 
Demonstrators want Lenin's tomb 
•Moscow-Hundreds of demonstrators gathered Sunday on Red Square to demand that the mausoleum containing the body of Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin and a museum devoted to him remain open. The demonstration followed a decision last week by Moscow's reformist City Council to take down 62 of 68 statues and other structures in the capital devoted to Lenin. The Lenin Mausoleum remains a sacred shrine that draws millions of Soviet and foreign tourists annually. After the August coup, radical St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak proposed removing Lenin's body from the Mausoleum for burial in his city, formerly known as Leningrad. Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has the matter should be discussed by the Supreme Soviet 
OF INTEREST 
•Auditions 
for "Steel Magnolias," presented by Lewis Hall Players, will be held today and Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Lewis Hall Basement (party room). Six female roles are available. Questions or conflicts call Cara or Kathy at x4209. 

•A 
Discernment Group has begun for women ages 18-35 who would like to come together and share, pray, and discern whether they are being called to a religious life. For more information, call The Sisters of the Holy Cross Membership Office at 284-4466 weekdays between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Ask for either Sister Marilyn Zugish or Sister Patricia Riley. 


MARKET UPDATE 

legislature, but the issue has not yet been raised. 
Jail brawl erupts over phone use 
•santa Clarita, Callf.-Authorities began an in­vestigation yesterday after a fight over a telephone be­tween a black and Hispanic jail inmate erupted into a brawl that injured 25 men on Saturday. The argument over use of the phone began about 8 a.m. Saturday at the Peter Pitchess Honor Rancho, said Los Angeles County sheriff's Deputy John Ashley. A pushing match started and about 95 men joined the melee, some armed with broomsticks, Ashley said. Six inmates suffered cuts and were taken to a hospital for treatment. Nineteen were treated at the jail. It made the third straight month inmates rioted over the telephone, which is used on a first-come, first-served basis. 
CAMPUS 

Saint Mary's kicks off its Fall Fest 
•Notre 
Dame, ln.-A variety of funfilled activities are planned for Saint Mary's Fall Fest happening this week. Activities include: 

•The 
Life of the Mind Lecture Series featuring Sandra Mize today at 4 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 

•Club 
Tuesday is having Emmy Award Wining Storyteller Jim May tell ghost stories at 8 p.m. tonight in Haggar Parlor. 

•An 
International Party with music and food from around the world tomorrow from 7-9p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 

•Wellness 
Open House tomorrow from 7 -9p.m. in Room 16 in the Regina Basement. 

•Costume 
Party during dinner on Thursday at SMC dining hall with cash prizes for the best costumes. 

•ND 
Homecoming Parade Friday at 4 p.m. at Goodwill Plaza on the corner of Eddy & Howard. 

•The 
Dow Jones Newspaper Fund Summer Internship's required editing/writing exercise is scheduled for Nov. 11. See Marilyn Rice in Career and Placement Services for an application and to register to take the ex­ercise. You must be a junior, senior, or graduate student returning to school in fall1992. 

•Saint 
Mary's Anthropology Club is sponsoring a discussion about archaeology. Come see Bill Cash talk about his experiences in Jerusalem on Wednesday in the Science Hall, room 105, at 7 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1911: Joseph Pulitzer, publishing genius and staunch ally of democracy, died of heart disease. 

• 
In 1972: Palestinian guerillas who hijacked a Lufthansa jet enroute from Beirut to Ankara forced West Germany to release three terrorists who participated in the Munich massacre. 

•In 
1974: Muhammad Ali knocked out George Foreman and became the second man in boxing history to regain the world heavyweight championship. 

• 
In 1982: Socialist Party candidate Felipe Gonzalez was elected Prime Minister of Spain, becoming the youngest leader in Europe at the time. 


Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 3 


Canadian ambassador speaks on Northern Ireland 
Club Column 
OCTOBER 29, 1991 
l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate dubs to check their mailboxes on the second Roor of Lafortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesdays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) Tutoring-Volunteers are still needed by the Center for Basic Learning Skills to tutor adults in South Bend one morning a week from 9:30-11 :30. Transportation is provided. If you are interested please call Dianne Dean at 283-4813. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
CONGRATULATIONS CHICAGO MARATHON RUNNERS 
Tara McDonald John Holloran Cesar Capella 
YOU'RE MY HEROS!!! Love, S. 
JOIN FREDDY KREUGER AT SENIOR BAR 


IIIILL()It/££11PI/RTf/ 
OCTOBER 31, 9pm-2am $2 donation to benefit senior formal. 
The 11eparttnent of Romance Lanquaqes and Ltteratures 
will give departmental placement exams for students who have not taken any previous pLtL.L'IIlclll l. ,ant 111 French or Spanish attd who are not currently enrolled in a Romance Language sL·qucncc. Sign up for the exam in the Languaec Resource Center officc. 20 I O'Shaughnessy Hall, by Friday, November 1 at 5 p.m. You must bring your i.d. with you to enter the exam room. Exams are scheduled in the Language Resource Center Auxiliary Lab, 250 O'Shag, as follows: l\1ondav, November 4. French: H:30-IO:OO a.m. and 10:30 a.m.-noon Spanish: I:30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 5. Spanish: X:J0-1 0:00a.m. and I 0:.10 a.m.-noon French: I:30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 run. 
understanding of Northern' Ireland leaders to assist in our coverage of Anglo-Irish val­ues," said Wadsworth. 
He described a land ridden by "adversity, killing, and extor­tion," where regional conflicts have resulted in bloodshed manifested by the "brutal real­ity of heavily border posts among the not so tranquil pas­toral Ireland." 
In spite of the disasters he has witnessed, however, Wadsworth commented that "life continues in Northern Ireland,"and he has managed to maintain "cautious optimism for a peaceful solution." 
In 1984, Wadsworth said he met three Irish men who de­bated whether any progress was being made for peace. According to Wadsworth, their answer was, "There is a lot of effort, a lot of activity under­way, yet each day I (one of the men) hear news of a friend or relative killed or injured in a terrorist attack or discrimina­tion continuing to rear its ugly head." 
"Some days we seem to take one step forward and two steps back and I get very discour­aged. At these times I remem­ber what was written in Chistopher Columbus' journal, 'No land in sight, keep on sail­ing,' and I say 'No peace at hand but we must keep on working.'" 
The people in Northern Ireland are ready for improve­ment, according to a presbyte­rian minister who Wadsworth met on one of his visits. 
"He told me not to be dis­couraged by some of the frank discussions we had heard," Wadsworth said. "He believed that the people of Northern Ireland under the age of forty were so sickened by the terrible fighting, that they would bring about change." 

There is no simple answer to the Irish question, he said, but recently several important steps 
The 

have been made towards peace: 
•all 
parties involved in the conflict have agreed to talks, 

•public 
reaction to such talks is positive, 

•civil 
rights improvements have been made, 

•there 
is a movement towards a more educated, less fearful population, 

•and 
there has been enhanced economic opportunity. 


There is still progress to be 
made, though, he said. 

"Hope has to enter into the lives of the children in these ar­eas." Wadsworth said. "Northern Ireland has to be able to look beyond itself to a world of change ... leaders have to emerge to rekindle the spirit of change. Old ways are born from fear and prejudice and the sense is the people are sick and tired of it." 
"It is a time for compromise and a time for change," Wadsworth concluded. "It is a time to rise above petty political concerns and remove one of the greatest blights on a Christian society and one of the abject failures of a democratic society." 
Wadsworth's lecture was sponsored by the Kroc Institute, as well as members of the Arts & Letters and Business Councils. 
Ebersol appointed to 


L.A. office 
Special to the Observer 

Scott Ebersol, a 1985 University of Notre Dame graduate, has been appointed assistant regional director of development in the University's Los Angeles office. 
Ebersol comes to Notre Dame from MAl Systems Corp. of Tustin, Calif., where he was a senior account manager. 
Directed by David Morrissey, the Los Angeles regional office oversees Notre Dame develop­ment activities in Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington. 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH Assistant News Editor 
Slow progress has been made toward ending violence in Northern Ireland, according to Michael Wadsworth, the Canadian ambassador to the He public of Ireland. 
In a lecture Monday, Wadsworth asked the audience to imagine the following hypo­thetical situation: 
For the past 20 years there has been on-going conflict in the United States between com­peting criminal elements result­ing in the murders of 500,000 Americans-nine times the number of U.S. soldiers killed in the Vietnam war. 
For the people of Northern 

Ireland, such a situation is a reality, according to Wadsworth. 
"Can you imagine the impact those evil elements would have on your society if they existed?" Wadsworth asked in his lecture Monday titled "Northern Ireland, a Visitor's Perspective." 
"The 500,000 Americans from a population of 250 million people is equivalent to the 2,900 murdered in Northern Ireland with a population of only one and a half million," he explained. 
While Northern Ireland is beyond the jurisdiction of any Dublin-based embassies, Wadsworth and his wife Bernadette have made several "official" visits to the region since 1980 for the main pur­pose of "obtain(ing) a better 





--~--~-­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
National Players will perform again at ND 

Special to The Observer 

"The Miracle Worker," a play by William Gibson, will be per­
formed by the professional touring company, National Players, Nov. 13-17 at the University of Notre Dame. 
National Players has given about 5,000 performances, creating a rich tradition of touring for which they are known worldwide. The group was assembled from a group of graduates from the drama de­partment at Catholic University in Washington, D.C., in 1949 by Father Gilbert Hartke. 
The company each year is made up of 14 members. Every company member is responsible for several jobs in addition to his or her acting responsibilities. National Players arrive a few hours before curtain time to execute a technical transformation of the stage that is as well rehearsed and choreographed as the performance itself. 
Notre Dame's communication and theater department invited National Players back to Washington Hall this season, following a performance last year of "The Taming of the Shrew," which opened the mainstage season. 
"The Miracle Worker," is a drama about two women ­Helen Keller and her teacher, Annie Sullivan. 
Performances of "The Miracle Worker" will run in Washington Hall from Wednesday, Nov. 13, through Saturday, Nov. 16, at 8:10p.m., and Sunday, Nov. 17, at 3:10,.P.m. Tickets are $7 and are available in advance through the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. Student and senior citizen discounts are available for the Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday performances. 
For MasterCard or Visa ticket orders, call 239-8128. Tickets also will be available at the door. 



Trustees 
continued from page 1 
University, Keough has been awarded honorary doctor of laws degrees by both Notre Dame and his alma mater. 
Keough has been president and chief operating officer of The Coca-Cola Company since 1981 and chairman of the board of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., the world's largest bottling system. since 1986. 
Keough joined Coca-Cola in 1950 and has been president of Coca-Cola Foods, president of Coca-Cola USA, and president of the Americas Group. In 1990 he agreed to remain at his current post through 1993, two years beyond the company's usual retirement age. 
Keough and his wife, Marilyn, live in Atlanta. 





MANDATORY 
BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! 
WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT THURS: $1 TEAS AND HALLOWEEN PARTY FRI: WET T·SHIRT CONTEST 
WED:WVFI DJ, TIM MCADAM 
Stadium 
Q JACC 
0 E I n 

...AND WE'LL 
~CLEAN THE FLOOR!
EXIT! Mishawaka Ave. 
..,
"' 
----------~~ ~ 

< 
"' 
1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 

A MEMORIAL 
is currently accepting applications for the ­
TO THE 

following paid position: 
AMERICAN 

Business Copy Editor 
CANCER 

I
SOCIETI WILL HELP 

To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
INTHE ~~~ 
statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Nov. 1 to Monica 
CONQUEST J 
Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
OFCANCER. I 


FREE FLU SHOTS 
Again this year the University is offering FREE flu shots to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and retirees. We urge you to take advantage of this opportunity to protect your health. 
The schedule: 
LOCATIONS: Library Concourse 
LaFortune, O'Hara Lounge  
DATES:  October 29 & 30 (both locations) October 31 (LaFortune only)  
TIMES:  10:00am-6:00pm  

BE SURE TO BRING YOUR I.D. 
Offered by University Health Services with the support of Student Affairs and Human Resources. 

Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Israel turns down freeze on new settlements 
HowAmerican Expresshelps you cover more territory.For less money. 
MADHID, Spain (API-Two days before the start of Middle East peace talks, Israel rejected a freeze on settlements in occu­pied lands and an Iranian radi­cal called for suicide attacks on the Jnwish state. 
In Turkey, a Muslim terrorist group opposed to the confer­encfl killed an American and se­riously wounded an Egyptian diplomat in two bombings. 
A Berlin nflwspaper, mean­while, said in a report at­tributed to unidentified intelli­gence sources that seven Arab terrorists were in Madrid and planned to attack the sewer system under the conference site. The report in Berliner Kurier could not be confirmed independently. 
Spain is mounting its biggest security operation ever -involv­ing more than 12,000 people ­to guard the heads of state, foreign ministers and thousands of delegates and journalists attending the talks that begin Wednesday. 
Sharpshooters were posted on the roof of the 18th-century Royal Palace where the dele­gates will meet. Armored per­sonnel carriers were parked around the granite building and anti-terrorist police were de­ployed around its formal gar­dens. 
Israel officially refuses to talk with anyone from the PLO, which it views as a terrorist group out to destroy the Jewish state. Palestinians are attend­ing the peace conference as part of a joint delegation with Jordan. 
Today, however, it was Shiite Muslims -most Palestinians are Sunnis -who threatened the first face-to-face meeting be­
tween  Israel  and  its  Arab  
neighbors in  more  than 40  
years.  

The Beirut newspaper Ad -Diyar quoted Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, Iran's former in­terior minister, as describing the Madrid conference as "high treason" and a "crime against the Palestinian people." 
Mohtashemi, a founder of Hezbollah, the Shiite group be­lieved to be an umbrella for factions holding Western hostages in Lebanon, was quoted as saying: "I have the wish to sacrifice myself for the sake of fulfilling the teachings of Imam (Ayatollah Ruhollah) Khomeini for the liberation of Palestine." 
In Ankara, Turkey, Monday, separate explosions killed an American serviceman and seri­ously wounded an Egyptian diplomat. The United States is co-sponsor of the talks in Madrid; Egypt is the only Arab nation to sign a peace treaty with Israel. 
An anonymous caller claimed responsibility for the bombings in the name of Islamic Jihad, and said: "We will not allow imperialist powers to share the Middle East during the peace conference." 
Islamic Jihad means Islamic Holy War. A Shiite group by that name holds three hostages in Lebanon, but it appeared un­likely that the same people were behind the bombings in Turkey. 
In Jerusalem today, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir rejected a proposal from Israel's Labor Party for a freeze on settlements in lands occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. 
Become aStudent Cardmember today and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
Only the American Express" Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more. 
just look at the map and pick the place you'd like to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use acertificate leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express• Student Privileges"' Program. Such as up to 30 minutes•• of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year-absolutely free. And that's just one example of how the Card can help you save. 
For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again.
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. 
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri­You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime­•Minnt>apoJis, St Paul, S1. Louis and Nt'\\' Orleans are considered chit'S east ofthe Miss1ssipp1 R•vtr because there are no blackout dates. But you must •• Acredit of up to 13.70 for calls will apptar on each billing stattmmt for 12 months ahtr enroll mem. 13.70 is tqualto thr chargfi £or .1 domestic 30 minutr night:wukrnd MCI Cud Compa11make your reservations within 14 days of the day you bili1y call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for 1h1s strvtcr by Drcrmbrr 31. 1991. 
Membership Has Its Privileges• 




CALL 1-800-942-AMEX 

Continental •
MCI 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. /nformalioll about your certificates will be arrit1i71g soon 

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 

NO professor praises end of Scrolls restriction 
JERUSALEM (AP)-The Israel Antiquities Authority an­nounced Sunday its decision to give up attempts to restrict ac­cess to the Dead Sea Scrolls and will allow biblical scholars from around the world to view unpublished fragments. 
Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame, who had been part of the team working on the scrolls, immediately issued a statement in which he wel­comed the decision. 
But the authority said schol­ars would have to promise not to publish full texts of scroll fragments on their own, a re­striction that drew criticism from a leading critic of the au­thority's handling of the scrolls. 
Scholars have complained for years that the scrolls were be­ing hoarded by a small group of scholars and that the pace of publication was too slow. 
Ulrich said the "announcement by the Israel Antiquities Authority that the Dead Sea Scrolls are fully available for scholars' research is a welcome clearing of public confusion concerning the scrolls' status." 
He said the announcement makes it clear all scholars have the "right of access to all the scrolls for their research, in­cluding quoting from the scrolls in their publications." 
Ulrich said the controversy has been painted as an "old boy network" of protecting the scrolls. 
The move by the antiquities authority "means two things. First, it removes the possibility of an individual editor refusing the request of one individual to use the texts. And, secondly, it 
No majority emerges in Polish elections 
ket economy, said the results from Sunday's election showed that society "doesn't agree with the price of the reforms." 
No one party was close to winning even 20 percent of the votes cast for parliament's lower house, or Sejm, and the former Communists were unex­pectedly running a close second to the Democratic Union, a cen­ter-left faction of the splintered Solidarity movement. The re­sults were based on returns from 64 percent of the 22,000 polling stations. 
A spokesman for the Democratic Union, which has differences with Walesa's allies on how to transform the econ­omy, said talks had started on forming a coalition among Solidarity parties. 
"We think such a possibility is difficult, but it does exist," Piotr Nowina-Konopka told the Associated Press. 
Any such coalition would need at least five separate parties to gain a simple majority in the Sejm. 
As many as 19 parties were expected to sit in the 460-seat removes the cloud of misunder­standing that this was a war between the haves and the have-nots," Ulrich said. 
The 2,000-year-old scrolls, discovered in caves near the Dead Sea between 1947 and 1956, contain the earliest known version of the Old Testament, biblical writings and information about early Christianity and modern Judaism. 
About 80 percent of the scrolls have been published, the authority says. 
Teh authority's decision was made reluctantly after the Huntington Library in San Marino, Calif., began allowing scholars to view its microfilm copies of the scroll fragments. 
The library's action came shortly after two scholars an­nounced they were publishing a bootleg version of the previ­ously unpublished text of 24 scrolls, which they said they pieced together using a com­puter. 

and ea111 $18,000 for college. 
If you have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Army National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks a year, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New GI Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $1LOOO -or more -in monthly Army Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus of up to $2,000 as soon 
impeded efforts to deal ef­fectively with Poland's economic problems and secure foreign 
investment.

Preliminary results were not available to indicate the makeup of the 100-seat Senate, the weaker Parliamentary chamber. 
Voter turnout was just 40 percent, the state polling agency said, an indication of unhappiness with the economic shock therapy. Wages are well behind inflation and unem­ployment stands at 10 percent. 
Confusion over the 69 parties in the election -including two environmental parties, the na­tional policeman's union and the Polish Friends of Beer Party -also contributed to apathy. 
The Democratic Union, led by former Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, had 12.1 percent of the votes counted by early afternoon, the State Election Commission said. 
The renamed Alliance of the Democratic Left, which as the former Communist Party ruled by force but guaranteed em­
as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And ifyou have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 extra per year. No other service offers you so many educational benefits, and asks so little of your time. 
So, if you can spare one weekend a month for your country, call your local recruiter. And help yourself to a higher education. 
219-234-9258 
Equal Opportunity Employer 

The Observer 

Tuesday, October 29, 1991 

Trouble with trees 
NO and S~C students on the Appalachia Service Project in Cranks Creek, Kentucky discovered man 
trees blockr~g the r~adways. It's a local tradition of youths around Halloween to cut down and bloc~ 
roadways wrth trees rn hopes of preventing passage to school the next day. 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Happy 21st 't:> 
:.q
~~ 

Love, Mom, 


-Dad & Mark 
~ope tpJ«-~ 
a, ~afllul 21 st Birthday 
I0·23·9I 


Love. Mom. Dad &Todd 

WASHINGTON (AP)-The amount of violent crime re­ported to police rose 5 percent in the first half of 1991, the FBI reports, and some say the increase may be linked to the weak economy. 
The FBI said Sunday that vio­lent and property-related crime rose 2 percent in the first six months of the year compared with year-earlier levels. 
In contrast, a household sur­vey released by the Justice Department a week ago showed that crime overall for all of 1990 declined 3. 9 percent. That survey is considered a more accurate reflection of crime trends, because it mea­sures crime generally, not just those reported to police. 
The FBI's crime index, based on data from 16,000 police de­partments, shows that: 
• 
The Northeast experienced a 3 percen,t decline in the amount of reported violent and property-related crime. But other areas saw increases: 4 percent in the Midwest, 3 per­cent in the South, and 2 percent in the West. 

• 
Nationally, robbery reported to police was up 9 percent, while other violent crime categories rose as well: murder, 5 percent; forcible rape, 4 percent; and aggravated as­sault, 2 percent. 

• 
There was a 1 percent in­crease in each of the three cat­egories -burglaries, larceny­thefts and motor-vehicle thefts. Arson showed no change. 

• 
The nation's biggest cities showed a 2 percent decline in reported crime. The biggest in­crease was in cities in less than 10,000 population, where there was a 5 percent rise. 


The increases in the FBI in­dex are connected to unem­ployment and drug addiction among poor youths in the most crime-prone age group, ages 15 to 24, said Gene Stephens, a professor of criminal justice at the University of South Carolina. 
Their situation is worse now with the economy in the dol­drums, Stephens suggested. The FBI index doesn't include breakdowns by age. 
Another academic expert, Alfred Blumstein, said there were indications in the earlier survey that crime might be turning upward and that the economy might be a factor. Robberies in 1990 were up sharply, by 5.3 percent. 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 



Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 
The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception onOctober 30, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 

llll[illll Chase Manhattan Bank 
page 7 
Violent crime rises 5 percent, FBI reports 
---------,
------------~­
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
Kevorkian: Letters will explain women's suicides 
DETROIT (AP)-Letters writ­ten by two women before they committed suicide in a remote Oakland County cabin will ex­plain why they wanted to die, said an attorney for Dr. Jack Kevorkian. 
Geoffrey Fieger and Kevorkian, who helped the two women end their lives at their request, scheduled a news con­ference today to release the let­ters, Fieger said. 
Kevorkian, who has not made a public appearance since the deaths Wednesday of Sherry Miller and Marjorie Wantz, would make his first statement, Fieger told WJBK-TV on Sunday. 
Fieger also said he would re­lease statements from the vic­tims' families which say they don't blame the 63-year-old re­tired pathologist for the deaths, WJBK reported early today. 
Kevorkian repeatedly asked 

WoW!! 
C-
the two women if they wanted to reconsider in the hours be­fore their deaths, according to Fieger and attorneys for the victims' families. 
Kevorkian also asked Miller three times whether she still wanted to end her life after she watched Majorie Wantz, a Sodus resident, use a machine invented by Kevorkian to give herself a lethal injection, The Detroit News reported in Sunday's editions. 
"Jack continuously asked her if she was sure," Fieger said. "Each time, Sherry said, 'Yes.'" 
Moments later, Jack pulled a mask over her face, inhaling a fatal quantity of carbon monoxide from a tank, Fieger and his partner Michael Alan Schwartz told the newspaper. 
The bodies of the 43-year-old Miller, of Roseville, and the 58­

From your fans in Texas 
year-old Wantz were found in the cabin after Kevorkian called police to report a "Physician­assisted suicide." 
A first-degree murder charge was dismissed Dec. 13 against Kevorkian, who helped an Oregon woman commit suicide in June 1990. Kevorkian hooked Janet Adkins to a device similar to the one Wantz used. Adkins pushed a button giving herself a lethal injection. 
A court order issued in January barred Kevorkian from assisting others to die. Oakland County prosecutors are trying to determine whether Kevorkian violated that order with the latest deaths and if criminal charges can be filed. They say that might take six weeks. 
Michigan has no laws against 
HAPPY 19th 
BIRTHDAY 
ROBINMEGO 

assisted suicide. 

Miller and Wantz had been counseled by Kevorkian for al­most two years before their deaths, Fieger and Schwartz said. Miller had multiple scle­rosis, which rarely proves fatal, and Wantz had a painful -but not terminal -pelvic disease. 
Along with Kevorkian and his sister, Margaret Janus, the women were joined in the cabin Wednesday by Wantz's hus­band, William, and Sharon Welsh, a friend of Miller's. Kevorkian, Janus, Welsh, and William Wantz have been unavailable for comment since the deaths and have refused to give statements to the police. 
But Fieger and Schwartz, who were not present that day, told the newspaper carefully planned deaths did not happen without unexpected complica­tions. 

Mini-Golf-In 
SoUTH BEND's NEWEST 
INDOOR FAIVIILV RECREATION CENTER 
1355 N. Bendix Dr., South Bend, IN 46628 

289-GOLF 

NOW OPEN 
SUPER PRIZE GIVEAWAY 
• Super NES System & other prizes 

Visit Mini-Golf-In during our Grand Opening and be eligible for all prizes. 
Just north of Linconway West in Bendix Plaza. " \ 
~v· 
Cleveland Rd. N D ., ~ 
\0' 
~\)<' 

•Indoor Miniature Golf 
Challenging 19 hole course 
• 
Video Arcade & Snack Bar 

• 
Parties for All Occasions 

• 
All u Can Play Nite Monday -$5 per person 


CLIP THIS AD AND BRING TO MINI-GOLF-IN FOR A 
FREE GAME OF MINIATURE GOLF WITH THE PURCHASE OF ONE GAM~. 


Mon 28th Scary Snack Break 8·1 0 Haggar Game Room Come watch your favorite halloween specials & carve a pumpkin. With treats of course! 
ue 29th Emmy Award Winning Storyteller Jim May at Club Tuesday 
ed 30th International Party 7:30-9:30 Haggar College Center. Food & entertainment from all over the world 
Thurs 31st Costume Contest during dinner. Cash prizes for winners in several categories. 
Fri Nov 1 Come watch Saint Mary•s float in the Notre Dame Homecoming Parade. St off is from Goodwill Plaza at 
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 9 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Lending a hand 
NO students on the Appalachia Service Project, Meredith Dincolo, Matt Jenkins, Joe Theby and J.P. McNeill, left to right, help put up drywall to finish off a two-bedroom addition for a family in Harlan County, Kentucky. 


Budget 
continued from page 1 

while he's "not anticipating an adverse affect" to 400-level courses such as increased class sizes, he said that there will be no additional sections added if the freeze is not lifted. 
"I can't increase those kinds of experiences without more resources," he said. 
While budget problems have been detected in the three other colleges of the University, O'Meara said there will be no hiring freezes outside the College of Arts and Letters. 
"I have spotted a problem (in the other colleges) and it has been arrested," he said. 
The temporary hiring freeze is actually the second of the year. 
In September, O'Meara asked the college to postpone hiring for this academic year until he could examine the budget situa­tion for 1991-92 more closely. . "I said 'no new appointments lor this year until I've analyzed the situation to see that we can break even.'" 
That evaluation process is now complete. Hiring for the 
GENERAL MOTORS VOLUNTEER SPIRIT AWARD 






University ofNotre Dame 
Center for Social Concerns 
Rewards Your Volunteer Spirit! 
General Motors will rwoudly rwesent an award to three students from your campus who have served as volunteers within the campus and the community. Eluh award recipient. will receive: 
spring semester can continue "but within certain limits so that we remain in the black," he said. 
Department heads within the college are now examining their needs and priorities for the 1992-93 academic year. When that is done, O'Meara said he will evaluate the current hiring freeze to determine if money will be available to hire addi­tional faculty. 
Once the evaluation is com­plete, the college will begin the normal budget process for the 1992-93 academic year. 
There have been no budget cuts thus far, and none are planned, O'Meara stressed. 
The entire situation is the re­sult of a complicated budgetary process of specific and irregular funding: 
•When the budget is drafted for a college, the salaries for permanent positions are funded specifically. Positions are often funded but not filled immedi­ately, O'Meara said. In theses cases, the money funded for the position is placed in a pool of irregular funds to be used when a professor is hired. 
The same is true when a fac­ulty member leaves the University and the position 

•  Aplaque signed by the college/university president or chancellor and the Chairman of  
General Motors  
•  Five shares of General Motors  
Corporation Common stock  

Aceremony and reception for
• 
recipients, family, and guests Media recognition in campus
• 
and hometown newspapers, 
and potential TV news 
coverage 


Center for Social Concerns 
(219) 239-5293 
Deadllne for applications is: Friday, March 6, 1992 
CHEVROLET· PONTIAC· OLCSMQ~IL~ BUICK•CACILLAC•GMC TRUCK 
~~~-. )P·.· 
cannot be filled immediately and when a professor takes a leave of absence or receives a grant which compensates for salary. 
The salaries of almost 20 professors made up this pool of irregular funds in the past, Attridge said. 
The college anticipated ap­proximately 15 to 20 positions remaining unfilled for the 1992­93 academic year, he added. 
•In the 1980s, the money in the pool of irregular funds was used for "non-salary purposes" not specifically in the budget, O'Meara said. Adjuncts, visiting professors and graduate stu­dents who teach are paid with this money, according to Attridge. 
Travel expenses are also often funded by this pool, he said. 
The theory of using this money for non-salary purposes is based on the assumption that there will always be unfilled permanent positions to con­tribute to the pool, Attridge said. 
But economic factors na­tionwide in the last few years challenged this assumption, O'Meara said. 
The job situation across the country was "so tight" that it became even more attractive for professors to come to Notre Dame, he said. With more professors committing to the University, more of the unfilled permanent positions were filled and more money was taken out of the pool of irregular funds. 
The addition of eight new po­sitions as part of the five-year plan did not help matters either. 
The new positions were added under the assumption that they would be funded from the pool of irregular funds. No one anticipated that the money in the pool would have already been spent in the filling of the other permanent positions, according to O'Meara. 
All the factors weighed to­gether created a drastic short­age in the pool of irregular funds, O'Meara said. 
"The pool got smaller," O'Meara said. "It is smaller than it should be." 
A solution must be decided upon soon now that the situa­tion has been recognized, Attridge said. 
Noting that the hiring process is often lengthy, Attridge said the administration "will have to make some important budget decisions within the next month" if the freeze is to be lifted for the 1992-93 academic year. 
For Attridge, the question that remains is how to fund the new positions and also have the resources to maintain the salaries for the remaining un­filled positions . 
For either to be possible, the college "will have to get more money from University alloca­tions or cut back on opera­tions," Attridge said. 
He said the college has two possible plans of action. A "no­growth" option would allow the college to use the money planned for new positions to replenish the pool of irregular funds. 
"That sum would go to fill the open positions without adding new positions," he said. "It would be doable, but not quite what the college needs." 
A second option would be for the college to seek increased funding from the administra­tion. 
As the no-growth option to "economize without cutting services" within the college might be difficult to maneuver, the college will most likely "make its case" to the University administration for increased budget allocations, Attridge stated. 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 

Tile Observer/John RoCk 
Say cheese 
A Notre Dame fan gets filmed up close by an NBC cameraman during the Notre Dame-USC game. 
Six winners 
Attention Off-Campus Students! Anyone interested in helping plan our
split Florida 
Off-Campus Formal, or if you have any 
lottery 
ideas or suggestions, please call Brian or 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Jim@ 289-6546 
(AP)-Florida officials announced Sunday that a smaller-than-expected jackpot of about $88.2 million will be 
Anyone interested in helping build the 
shared by holders of six 
Off-Campus Float for Homecoming please 
winning tickets. None of the winners had 
call Trevor @ 289-6546
identified themselves as of Monday morning. The six magic numbers are 7-16-17­23-27-30. 
*All Float volunteers are invited to a party
Although the Florida grand prize fell about $6 million short 
at Trevor's after the Float is done! of the $94 million estimate that fueled sales last week, the six.--------------------------.,.. 
winners still will receive $15 million each, paid out 20 years. 
Sales probably fell short expectations because of the sluggish economy and the World Series, lottery spokesman Ed George said. 
"We debunked the myth that the lottery is recession-proof," he said. 
Share in their 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO

growth to full 
INTO THE 

SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
manhood 
Sure. there are other schools. But whysettle? Kaplan prepcourses help students raise their scores and theirchancesof beingadmitted into their first-choice schools. Fad is. noone has helped studentsscore higher' 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
Society of ~~§~1-1 African Missions 272•4135 
If you would like to know about us. contact: 
Fr. Ulick Bourke. SMA SMA Fathers, Dept. NDO 500 Everett Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754 818-280-6967 
Ghosts attract guests to New Mexico hotel 
CIMARRON, N.M. (AP)-Birds drop dead, things vanish, the deadbolt snaps shut on the front door, and Pat Loree says she was knocked to her knees by the "presence" in Room 18. 
It doesn't take a seer to see why Halloween's a busy time at the St. James Hotel. 
Twenty-six people died vio­lently there in the late 1880s ­including five people in one day, according to local legend. Bullet holes pock the dining room ceiling. Records show that gunfights claimed the most victims, although there wer'e a few stabbings, too. 
The hallway upstairs is lined with the pictures and names of famous Wild West figures who stayed at the St. James, includ­ing Billy the Kid, Pat Garrett, Bat Masterson, Tom "Black Jack" Ketchum, Doc Holliday, and Buffalo Bill Cody. 
Loree, a former co-owner, no longer works here. But one night in 1986, she says, she showed Room 18 to Dr. Kenneth Wright of Fresno, Calif., and encountered a not-so-friendly ghost. 
"Swirling -that's too gentle. He was raging," Wright, a gy­necologist, said by telephone from Fresno. 
"It came down at me and passed me on my right and I felt like I was being struck at," Loree says. "I indeed fell to my knees...! got back up and at that point it came back at me and knocked me to my knees and went up to the corner (of the room) and continued spin­ning." 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Yolunteers needed: 
College Preparation and SAT1ACT Skills Review Workshop A YMCA Urban Youth SerYices deYelopment program primarily designed for at risk and low income high school youth in the YMCA serYice area. 
9:30 to 11 :00 am 
at. Nov 2nd-..What should I be Doing Now 1o Prepare for College?.. Sal. Nov 9111-SAT/ACT Verbal Preparation 81. Nov 1Gth-SAT/ACT Ma1h Preparation Nov 23rd-Pracllce SAT lest Panel discussion wilh current college students Students interested cil JoAnne Bnaue-work !31-5585, home !87-0918 
.MARIGOLD-----­
<£;-. 
AQuu:='T 
CL?R_Nt:=:"~ 
WRLONCH­

• Grc~T ~D'-"'~tt-e~, ~v~ ANP :::5A!-~DS
--. 
~ "t::;S~E,$$0~D ~rN~
._,....... 

~ ~tJ~+r SAKER.y' • 1/yNAMI'"'fE.-De-~-s.-eR.,-.s 


MARIGOLD MARKET 
G~&CLEVELANDRP.·2iZ·J9.2.Z
" ~ 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•.••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..•....•.•...•. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ......•....• Emily Willett Controller .....•....•.......... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Chauvinist Club' shirts offend, harass women 
Dear Editor: 
Monday, 6:40p.m. 
I have just returned from the dining hall. Upon returning my tray to the tray carousel, I could not help but notice the cute and dever tee shirt proudly worn by the young gentlemen before me. 
It featured several provoca­tivnly-dad women, along with the quote "Genesis 3:16 'And (;od said to the woman: your desirn shall be for your hus­band, and he shall rule over you."' The young man turned around, and I noticed the front of his shirt bore the logo "Notre Dame Chauvinist Club." 
I was tempted to say, "Nice shirt (expletive)," but I re­frained, careful not to violate du Lac's anti-harassment policy. llowtJver, upon reflection, I wondered whether I were not being harassed by the sexist slogans of this man's apparel. 
What would happen if this person wore a "Notre Dame Hacist Club" or "Notre Dame Queer-Bashing Club" tee shirt? I am sure one could lind biblical quotes against homosexuality to print on a tee shirt; however, 1111ither homophobic nor misog­ynous statements are justified merely because their source is the Bible. 
DOONESBURV 
With all the attention given to the discrimination against ho­mosexuals on campus these days, the problems facing women tend to be overlooked. Not that I disagree with equal rights for homosexuals; on the contrary, I support equal rights for everyone. What I am saying is that simply because the Uni­versity's token "Year of the Woman" has ended, there is no reason to discard women's is­sues. 
Why should the University give its tacit approval to those who wear offensive clothing or behave in a manner that is dearly misogynous? Perhaps one would call it "freedom of speech." However, I would remind you that one's civil lib­erties end when they infringe upon those of another. 
I assert that the women of this campus should have the right to peaceful existence, free from the harassment that in­vites our anger and rage, and which attempts to keep us in fearful silence when confronted by the likes of the "Notre Dame Chauvinist Club." 
Jill Jones 
Lewis Hall 
Oct. 14,1991 

Assumptions about sexual activity should extend to gay people as well 
Dear Editor: 
If I understand correctly, the main argument against the University of Notre Dame offi­cially recognizing gay and les­bian student groups runs as follows: the Catholic Church does not condone homosexual activity. Notre Dame is a Catholic University, seeking to follow Catholic ideals. By rec­ognizing a group composed of homosexual students, the University would be condoning homosexual activity. Therefore, the University should not officially recognize such a group. 
There is a major problem with the argument, however, in that it assiumes that all gay and lesbian students are sexually active. The Church does not condemn homosexuality as such, or homosexual inclina­tions; it condemns homosexual actions. Being gay is not sinful; it is not a matter of the human will acting against God's. In the Church's eyes, it is no more sinful to be gay than to be, say, black or a woman, or whatever. The idea that all gays are sexually active, even promiscuous, is one of the mis­apprehensions or prejudices that a group of openly gay stu­dents would help to dispel. 
The administration seems to expect that all unmarried stu­dents will remain celibate: du Lac prohibits extra-marital sexual behavior, condoms are unavailable on campus, pari­etals are still very much in ef­fect, and so on. If the adminis­tration is going to assume that all straight students are sexu­ally inactive why not extend the same assumption to all gay students. And if the adminis­tration assumes that all gay students are celibate, there will be no further conflict between Notre Dame's Catholic ideals and official recognition of gay and lesbian student groups. The University would not be condoning sinful activity, rather, it would be allowing a much­needed student group full access to the campus and all of its resources. 
Stephen A. Allen 
Graduate Student 
Off-campus 
Oct. 8, 1991 
AdOptiOn is a difficult, yet loving choice 
Dear Editor: 
Thank you, thank you, thank you for printing Ms. Laurie Gilbert's letter on adoption (The Observer, Oct. 8). Ms. Gilbert depicts the choice of adoption beautifully, a choice I feel, as she does, that is not always fairly presented. 
Her words brought tears to my eyes as I remembered my own pregnancy, and the pain in accepting the responsibility of my child. I chose adoption, and like Ms. Gilbert's friend, I can rest assured my one and a half year old daughter is being raised by a loving family, who will always thank God for the gift of her life. 
The pro-choice vs. pro-life de­bate will never be resolved until both sides realize that saving or terminating a life is only part of the problem. Giving that life a happy, healthy, loving en­vironment with which to grow in is the real battle, one that I fail to see either side address­ing. How sad for all of those 'saved' lives, who only go on to existence in a broken, often­times welfare home. 
I, too, fail to understand Ms. Jennifer Rasmussen's argument that an unborn child is some­how less than human (The Ob­server, Sept. 18). Ms. Gilbert laid her hand on her friend's abdomen, feeling the "violent kicks, impatient wriggles and muffied hiccups." I experienced these firsthand, and I can as­sure anyone who asks that even the first fluttering movements of an unborn child in the first trimester can hardly be less than human. 
I have undergone extensive counseling these past one and a half years, and I feel the most important message my counselor gave to me was to tell me that adoption does not mean 'giving up,' but rather 'placing' my child in the best possible care I could. I challenge the ND/SMC community to provide loving support for those who have made this choice. 
The hardest decision in my life was to place my daughter in an adoptive home. I did not place her because she was unwanted or unloved, but because I loved her so much. I miss her even now, and I pray for the day she is 18 years old. I pray she will try to find me, and I pray she will love and respect the woman she finds. 
Sherry Ensminger Knott Hall Oct.10, 1991 
WV870HeAR.. tuHY, eurII'H UH-OH! 
WHY NO WITNBSS£5! fA7137DA 
_Ofi /A/at.-/ I 
IA/OUW HA,HA,HAl
~Ll-Y PREFE3R
aeAR. 

7HAT£Jt, JUST KIW!NG.'
TAl-KING 70 W
Mf3f3TING... 
516NAL5 

fAI(X]lJ GtT YOU A C()J<e?
mtHJN-aveANY­
I CITY.' 
BOY~ HA, HA!
a.I4Y, JOAN GIRL-'
HA,HA.' 

I JOlt'£.'...,,.....:.:.........
' ~ 
" 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 
'No matter what the name, we're all the same: Pieces-in one big chess game' 
Public Enemy 
Do the right thing, submit to: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
r----~--------------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 Page 12 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Poverty proves that elitist capitalism does not 'work' 
Dear Editor:  have) in believing the bureau­ Education is a big business  doesn't get enough to eat and is  care, education, housing, nutri­ 
In his letter to The Observer  cratic elites when they call the  too, and tuition costs have mul­ more likely to get sick and miss  tion)  are too important and  
(Friday,  Oct.  11),  Jeffrey  political systems of these coun­ tiplied so rapidly in the past few  school than kids who do. Lack  essential to simply be left to the  
O'Donnell felt obligated to let  tries "socialist."  decades that many people  are  of affordable housing seems to  vagaries  of  a  profit-driven  
the Notre Dame community  In fact, a misunderstanding of  denied access to a good college  be  a  cause.  The families of  market. Perhaps capitalism  
know what he believes were the  socialism has routinely been  education. And if you are a poor  these 5.5 million children are  "works" for Mr. O'Donnell pre­ 
successes and failures of this  used by the right to discredit  single mother, lack of affordable  forced to spend so much of their  cisely for that reason: it has  
century thus far. Capitalism  commonsense progressive re­ child care and a lack of federal  income on housing that they  worked for him.  
ranks number four on his list  forms that attempt to transfer  funding for financial aid makes  can only devote an average of  Ironically, "democracy" is also  
while communism/socialism is  power from the hands of cor­ getting  a  college education  68 cents per person for each  on  Mr.  O'Donnell's  list  of  
his biggest failure of the cen­ porate elites to the people. In  almost impossible. And,  of  meal.  But I guess these statis­ successes. I am compelled to  
tury.  the 60s national health care  course we can't afford a decent  tics aren't relevant in determin­ assume that he means the in­ 
It is unclear what Mr. O'Donnell means by "communism/socialism" and by  was defeated because conserva­tives successfully labeled it "socialized medicine,"-thus  public school system because we spend billions of dollars a year on fighter planes. This  ing whether a system "works" or not. Powerful American corpora­ complete democracy of late twentieth century capitalism and not the more inclusive form  
r r  using such a sweeping term he is automatically displaying his ignorance of political systems and ideologies, justifying the discredit of his tidy list. If, by "communism," he means Soviet-style Lenin­ism/Stalinism, then he is cer­tainly correct in labeling it a failure. But if we are to assume that by tacking the word "socialism" on to "communism" he is equating the two then he has made a grave mistake and displayed the common naivete and misconception that what  playing on the public's preju­dice of the term. More importantly, one is forced to wonder on what crite­ria Mr. O'Donnell bases his judgements of "what worked and what didn't work" in the twentieth century. According to his handy chart, we can see at a glance that capitalism "works" and socialism doesn't. I assume that by analyzing the United States, the world's most char­acteristic capitalist nation, we can ascertain exactly how capi­talism has been a "success."  "works" according to Mr. O'Donnell. The U.S. Census Bureau re­ports that 50 percent of African-American children un­der the age of six live in poverty (defined as a family of four earning less than $12,700 per year). Nineteen percent of children under 18 years old and 22.5 percent of children under six live below the poverty line. What a success! (And this is based on an out-dated scale for measuring poverty based on consumption data from the 50s.  tions have been the biggest pol­luters of the environment in the twentieth century under capi­talism and may soon be able to "buy" the right to pollute through taxation. The unfet­tered capitalist corporate com­plex has concentrated on prof­its, not environmental respon­sibility. And the working class-not the executives-is the first group to suffer from environmental waste because they are often marginalized by the system and powerless to fight corporate power.  of democracy that democratic socialists are currently striving for-a democracy in which the now economically oppressed would actually have a say in their own destinies. In this light, perhaps democracy hasn't been the raging success Mr. O'Donnell would have us be­lieve. One can only hope that the American public will realize that failure in the first 91 per­cent of the twentieth century has been capitalism, and that in the future our notion of  
has failed in the Soviet Union is socialism.  Let's see: Thirty-seven million people in  Updated scales based on modern estimates of food and  Nevertheless, let it be known, capitalism is a success.  progress may become more akin to that of Franklin D.  
If Mr. O'Donnell were a bit  the U.S. (12 million of them  housing costs would raise the  The truth is, capitalism con­ Roosevelt who said, "The test of  
better informed he would know that socialists have been among the harshest critics of the anti­democratic, highly centralized societies and economies of the Soviet Union and Eastern Eu­rope. Instead he has fallen into the trap (as many Americans  children) have no health insurance at all, and another 20 million are underinsured. Because health care is a business, millions of people are denied access each year. But this is a success according to Mr. O'Donnell.  poverty threshold more than 50 percent, according to Patricia Ruggles of the congressional Joint Economic Committee.) A 1991 Food Research Action Center report on childhood hunger shows that one of every eight children in America  centrates wealth, resources and power in the hands of the economic elite. Further, every­thing is a commodity to be bought and sold-from human needs to irreplaceable natural resources, whereas socialism holds that some things (health  our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little." David Brach Off-campus Oct. 13,1991  
Homosexual orientation is disorder  

according to the Church's teaching 
Dear Editor: is deplorable that homosexual or even good. 
The Campus Ministry state­persons have been and are the "Although the particular incli­ment on National Coming Out object of violent malice in nation of the homosexual per­Day, published in The Observer speech or in action. son is not a sin, it is more or of Oct. 8, properly emphasized "Such treatment deserves less strong tendency ordered that "while homosexual condemnation from the towards an intrinsic moral evil; orientation is not sinful, Church's pastors wherever it and thus the inclination itself homosexual acts are," and that, occurs. It reveals a kind of dis­must be seen as an objective for heterosexuals as well as for regard for others which endan­disorder" (No. 3). homosexuals, "the only proper gers the most fundamental The statements of the teaching place for genital sex is within principles of a healthy society. Church on the subject have the permanent bond of The intrinsic dignity of a person consistently affirmed that the marriage and in the context of must always be respected in homosexual orientation, while the potentiality for new life." word, in action and in law. not itself sinful, is disordered 
The statement stressed the "But the proper reaction to even if it is not acted upon. And duty to avoid harassment of crimes committed against ho­those statements have stressed homosexuals and to "examine mosexual persons should not be the importance for young our expressed and sometimes to claim that the homosexual people of prayer, "frequent implicit negative attitudes to­condition is not disordered. reception of the sacraments of wards those among us who are When such a claim is made and penance and the Eucharist" and homosexuals." when homosexual activity is "devotion to the Immaculate 
The political "gay rights" consequently condoned or when Mother of God" (Declaration on movement does not seek merely civil legislation is introduced to Sexual Ethics, No. 12). a recognition of the obvious fact protect behavior to which no Campus Ministry's generally that a homosexual orientation, one has any conceivable right, constructive statement should Dear Editor: "waste" society has forgotten just as an orientation toward neither the Church nor society have made the same points. In­I signed up to go on the Urban about. Rather, they are shoplifting, is not sinful unless it at large should be surprised stead, while the statement Plunge because I felt that it was individuals with names, faces is translated into action by the when other distorted notions commendably noted the intrin­time I acknowledged the reality and feelings that I will never will. It seeks rather to and practices gain ground, and sic wrongness of extra-marital of poverty and homelessness. allow myself to forget. legitimize as normal and even irrational and violent reactions sex of any kind, it went on to For a long time I figured the Although I thought I could be as a preferred constitutional increase"(No. 10). devote its major thrust to a po­problem was a hopeless situa­immersed into the inner city for right, an activity which is The 1986 Letter noted that the litically correct condemnation tion that society was allowing to a couple of days and go home destructive to society and con­Congregation's 1975 Declara­of harassment. persist, and I was satisfied with knowing and understanding trary to the nature of the per­tion on Sexual Ethics had Notre Dame students are enti­this ignorance. what it is like to be poor or son as well as to the law of God. "stressed the duty of trying to tled to a more complete exposi­But the Plunge helped me gain homeless, I now realize that 
In response to this movement, understand the homosexual tion of what the Catholic knowledge and a new perspec­was impossible. I am not poor it is essential to avoid harass­condition and noted that culpa­Church actually teaches on the tive. I was expecting to see or homeless and cannot, there­ment and wrongful imputation bility for homosexual acts subject. I suggest it would bet­homeless people who were dirty fore, know fully their pain, fear, of culpability to those who act should only be judged with pru­ter serve the Notre Dame com­and living on filthy streets or in depression and hardship. as well as to those who are dence. munity for Campus Ministry to rat infested buildings. Instead, I Despite my lack of ability to merely oriented toward At the same time the Congre­offer every week, verbatim, a saw fairly clean and healthy understand what it is to be homosexuality. It is important, gation took note of the distinc­current statement of the Vicar individuals living in well kept homeless, I do know what help however, to avoid an implicit tion commonly drawn between of Christ on a moral issue. shelters. I thought I would meet is needed and that I can be a promotion of the erroneous the homosexual condition or Perhaps Notre Dame students lazy drug addicts who were part of it. The many service or­conclusion that the homosexual tendency and individual homo­care too little about what Cam­content living off the tax payers' ganizations we visited showed orientation is itself neutral or sexual actions. In the discus­pus Ministry thinks. But, if they dollars. me the many ways I can help, benign. sion which followed the publi­were given the chance, I think I met, however, a few hard and I am prepared to give my 
The Letter on Homosexuality, cation of the Declaration, how­they would care very much working individuals trying des­time. Registration for Urban issued by the Congregation for ever, an overly benign interpre­what the Vicar of Christ thinks. perately to either get off or stay Plunge is now open until Nov. 8. the Doctrine of the Faith, with tation was given to the homo­Prof. Charles E. Rice off welfare. I can no longer Kathryn Pilot the approval of Pope John Paul sexual condition itself, some Notre Dame Law School think of the poor and homeless Siegfried Hall II, on October 1, 1986, said, "It going so far as to call it neutral, Oct. 15, 1991 as "untouchable" people, the Oct. 15, 1991 


Accent 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
The Notre Dame Press is releasing literature that helps readers to understand the continual change that has shaped Notre Dame for 150 years. 
Stocking stoners 
Notre Dame Press releases books to honor Sesquicentennial Celebration 
distinction and diversity of poets Sorin's judgments of people and events
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
"The University of Notre Dame: associated with the University since are recorded with a blunt frankness, but
Literary Critic 
A Portrait of Its History and 1950. his biases are revealed in these The 19 poets included in this chronicles as well as in his commitment
In light of the Sesquicfmtennial Campus" 
By Thomas J. Schlereth anthology range from Ernest Sandeen, to the projects that shaped his life and
Celebration, Notre Dame Press is 
"A picture says a 1000 words" or at who joined the English faculty at Notre work.
offering NIJ followers eight com­
memorative collectibles for their least as many as Notre Dame Professor Dame in 1946, to Michael Patrick November 1992 publication bookshelves. of American Studies, Thomas Schlereth O'Connor, who received his 320 pages The publication of the writes in his pictorial and textual undergraduate degree from the $18.95 cloth Sesquicentennial Series has made it commentary that remembers people and University in 1970. possible for "DomHrs" to explore the moments that made Notre Dame what it All the poets included in this book "Trees, Shrubs, and Vines on the 
have been either students at Notre Dame Notre Dame Campus"history and accomplishments that have is. 
Schlereth has compiled 430 pho­and/or members of the faculty. By Barbara J. Hellenthal and Robertmade the University what it is today. 
Topics ranging from personal tographs, reconstructed maps, November 1991 publication P. Mcintosh Introduction by Thomas J. Schlereth
reflections of professors to the changing lithographs and architectural drawings 312 pages 
face of Notre Dame's physical campus to aid in his review of the life each $19.95 cloth From the tree-lined Notre Dame help n~aders gain a better generation experienced on campus from Avenue that frames the distant Golden Dome to the crisscrossed network of
understanding of the continual change the early days of the University's "My Notre Dame: 
establishment. Memories and Reflections of Sixty walkways that lead to the heart ofthat has shaped ND over the course of its 
150 year existence. Available in the Bookstore. Years" campus, the Notre Dame landscape 252 pages By Thomas Stritch makes a definite impression on residents In this memoir, Thomas Stritch, with and visitors alike. 
Due to the fact that some of the $32.95 cloth 
$18.95 paperback endearing perspective, reflects on his Here, Barbara J. Hellenthal presents a
sesquieentennial volumes will not be 
experiences at Notre Dame from when list of campus flora that includes apublished until Novmnbnr, 1992, this is a he was a freshman in 1930 to his life woody checklist enhanced by color pho­
"preview" of tlw books rather than a "University of Notre Dame: A Contemporary Portrai today, as Professor Emiritus of American tographs and keys to plant identification. 
"review" with excerpts of material 
Second Edition" Studies. Students, visitors, gardening enthusiasts,
published about the books by Notre 
I>anw Press. By Robert P. Schmuhl He writes about the growth of Notre and naturalists will appreciate the The words and 78 color and black­Dame since its Diamond Jubilee in 1917, walking guide and map of the campus,
When published, these books will be 
and-white photographs in this book its past presidents, the evolution of Notre plus the abundant horticultureavailable at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
provide the most up-to-date portrait of Dame's religious spirit, its most colorful information on each genus.
and arn wonderful Christmas gift ideas. 
the University of Notre Dame available. characters, his own undergraduate days, November 1992 publication "O'Malley of Notm Dame" The book discusses touches on all and his involvement with various aca­256 pages By John W. M£>aney aspects of life on campus. demic departments. $12.95 paperback 
"There are only two people on campus The paramount concern, however, is His personal views and firsthand who were genuinely interested in souls; the intellectual life of the University-the experiences add a delightful dimension In addition to the eight volumes the one was Father Craddick, prefect of teaching and the scholarship occurring of intimacy and insight to Notre Dame Notre Dame Press has prepared to honor 
history. the Sesquicentennial Celebration, the
religion, who wondnred whether your within the individual departments, 
colleges, and institutes. November 1991 publication Press is oiTering The Official Universitysoul was soiled or dean; and the other 
Available in the Bookstore. 256 pages of Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Deskwas Frank O'Malley who wondered 156 pages $19.95 cloth Calendar. This spectacular 16-month
whether your soul was alive or 
desk calendar is the perfect guide to the
dead,"(quoted from a 1940 campus $9.95 paperback 
"Chronicles of Notre Dame du Lac" celebration of Notre Dame's 150thnewspaper). 
"Notre Dame Remembered: Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. birthday.
The latter was most obviously used as 
Edited and annotated by James The calendar contains:
a motivation for John W. Meaney's An Autobiography" 
By Edward Fischer Connelly, C.S.C. •The academic calendar as well as thetribute to Professor Frank O'Malley. 
"Well-written and big-hearted, this When Edward Sorin left France in major events of the sesquicentennial
Meaney. a former student of O'Malley's, 
has compiled the book from his own book will be great for Notre Darners, but 1841 to lead the first group of celebration commencing in September there is much in it for others as well. missionaries sent by the Congregation of 1991 and including the full 1992
notns, the notes of fellow students, and O'Malley's own writings regarding Not an in-depth school analysis of the the Holy Cross to the New World, the calendar year. 
school, but a touching portrait of rule of the young community required •Significant dates in the history of the humanities in history, which have been 
called "testimonies to the good and Americana and one of America's him to send back to France an annual university -­legendary universities." account of the significant events in the •A selection of quotes on Notre Dame,
bnautiful things that could only be found 
Available in the Bookstore. life and work of the Holy Cross men and its character, history and, goals 
in the life of the mind." 
women in the American mission. •Ten full-page color illustrations
"O'Malley of Notre Dame" captures the 192 pages $12.95 paperback The "Chronicles of Notre Dame du capturing the ethos of campusessence of a character dedicated fully to Lac" covers the years 1841 to 1866 andthe broadening of a student's mind and 
"The Space Between: contains a running account of the The calendar is available in thespirit. 
Poets from Notre Dame. 1950-1990" foundation of the University of Notre Bookstore for $19.95. The calendar may ­Available in the Bookstore. 
Dame and its first quarter-century of be a terrific Christmas stocking stuiTerEdited by James Walton272 pages 
"The Space Between" celebrates the existence. or even the perfect treat for yourself. 
$10.95 paperback 
Accent 
page 14 Tuesday, October 29, 1991 


aes o 
error 
Jim May brings personal experience to storytelling 
-By AMY KATHLEEN BENNETT 
Accent Writer 
Remember slumber parties? After the pizza and the gossip inevitably came the ghost stories. Saint Mary's Club Tuesday will offer a chance to bring those ghost stories back tonight. Storyteller Jim May of Woodstock, Illinois will be 

telling ghost stories as a part of Saint Mary's Fall Fest. 
May is experienced in storytelling, although he admits it is "not an art I went to school for." The youngest in his family, May has been creating tales since he was five years old. 
His older sisters used to come home from high school wanting to hear his latest stories about his imaginary friends. May says creating the stories was like "running a serial." 
Jim May's father was a farmer and horse trader in their rural Illinois county, as well as a local storyteller. May tagged along with his father and listened as his father entertained others. 
"The idea of being able to make someone laugh occurred to me at an early age," says May. 
May was a teacher for ten years, and a counselor for five, and he used his stories as a tool in both professions. May has since gone on to travel throughout the United States and Europe with folk tales and legends for children, as well as workshops for professional groups on how to tell stories and create original ones. 
In 1989, May was the recipient of a Chicago Emmy award for a television production of his original story, "A Bell For Shorty." 
May welcomes all types of audiences, from the very young to the very old. He calls storytelling a truly "human experience," and he loves to see the audiences "listening, watching, laughing, and even crying" as he tells his tales. 
His stories come from personal experience, myths, and legends from many cultures worldwide. His ghost stories often come from folk tradition. For example, one of his stories is an Irish tale of a heroic girl who confronts death in a graveyard to save her village. 
Besides this Irish ghost story, May will spook Tuesday's audience with a ghostly British tale as well as a frightening story from his own life. 
Jim May will perform tonight in the Haggar parlor from 8 to 9 p.m. Admission is free. 
TMBG's new release confirms them as musical giants 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR r-----;;M:-.i;-sc-e-;:11;-a-ne_o__u__s"T;:-------, "Yes, I will kiss the girl from Music Critic Venus for science. I I'm so They Might Be Giants brave. I'm so brave. I'll be her 
The time has come to change * * * * love slave forever." the name. The jazzy "Lady is a Tramp" 
The statement of hopeful (out of five) features a very artificial-possibilities has been fulfilled. L.....;-~-;-;-;---;--;-;---;;--;:---:;-;:;-::;-:~ sounding brass section, coupled They no longer Might Be World's Address," from 1988's with a drum machine which Giants. They are Giants. Lincoln, is the only does its own solo. 
They Might Be Giants has disappointing track, and The band swings some more staked its claim as the zaniest disappointing only because its with "Birds Fly," a song musical group in the world with five minutes seem to last seemingly made for Harry its first three albums, and the forever when placed in the Connick, Jr., which is is sung New York duo's reputation will context of the typical 100-with romantic appeal by suffer none from the recently-second frenetic joyride that is a Linnell. released Miscellaneous T TMBG song. ''I'll Sink Manhattan" features compilation. "Don't Let's Start," the duo's a police officer's message of 
The new collection is nothing first single, is included in all of love for the band. The message if not miscellaneous. B-sides its hyperactive glory, as is was taken from They Might Be The New York duo They Might Be Giants recently released their newand other eccentricities mock-rocker "(She Was a) Hotel Giants Dial-A-Song, an album Miscellaneous T.
abound, all recorded from Detective." answering machine in New 1986-1989. Perhaps the goofiest songs on York which fans can call to some crazy garbage I called the doing it anyway. 
Opening the musical fun is the compilation are taken from hear new TMBG material and blood of the exploited working The 1990 single "Birdhouse "Hey, Mr. DJ, I Thought You the B-side of the "Hotel leave messages for the band. class," sings Linnell in the 1988 in Your Soul" cracked the Said We Had a Deal," recorded Detective" 12-inch single. The absurdity of most of the song. British top ten, while Flood was in 1989 while the band was at The first half of "Mr. Klaw" Giants' work is very relieving in The band takes another shot a major college radio hit. work on their major label sounds like the Sugarcubes a world where many musicians at those who climb to the top They Might Be Giants is a debut. Flood. over Velvet Underground take themselves too seriously. only to knock others off in "Hey, band whose time has come. 
Singer John Linnell glibly music, which is frightening in The band is not afraid to be Mr. OJ..." Linnell and Flansburgh are tells of bribes to disk jockeys, itself. But the second half is silly, and listeners cannot help "I could never sleep my way clever and unique, and never albeit with his tongue familiarly absolutely strange-an ode to but follow suit. to the top I 'Cause my alarm stop coming up with hooks. and firmly in cheek. "the famous Mr. Klaw." Linnell and guitarist John clock always wakes me right 
The band has included The band also takes on "For Flansburgh mock all those who up." Miscellaneous T is a great several remixes of favorites Science," the story of a man step on others to reach the top The Giants may have little way to get a TMBG fix before from their first two albums. who will sacrifice his life to in "Kiss Me, Son of God." clue as to how they can get to the 1992 release of their next The Joshua Fried remix of "The learn about Venusian invaders. "I built a little empire out of the top, but they seem to be album, Apollo 18. 
-
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offlca, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classl11eds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spacas. 
ONE ROOMMATE WANTED. TWO  I need 2 or 4 tix for Navy  ALUMNI PARENTS ARE COMING  Thanks for the hospitality Shannon  COMEDY IMPROV  
NOTICES  BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED, NEAR ND . FIRST AND LAST  and Tennessee Please call Jerry x1691  IN FOR NAVY AND WILL ABANDON THEIR OLDEST  Cesar, Tara, & Jon  SHOW-FREEII Come see Irish Accent kick off its  
MONTHS RENT IN ADVANCE.  DAUGHTER IF SHE DOESN'T  CARROLL HALL  91-92 season with its new cast o'  
"N.D. VIDEO"  RESUME REQUIRED. 2B7-25B3  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR  FIND TICKETS. CALL LAURA  CARROLL HALL  members. It's alot of fun and a great  
2 TENN GAs. Dan x179B  X34B6  HAUNTED HOUSE  time! Come join the fun at  
Halloween Special All this Week  FOR SALE  I need three NAVY GA's lor  NEED 1 NAVY GA! X1750  HAUNTED HOUSE who : da' Vermin  Theodore's Wednesday night at 9:00. And remember it's FREE II!  
2 movies lor $3  visiting sister and friends.  when: Thurs. Oct. 31st  
'B5 NISSAN MAXIMA. 4-dr. stick,  Two have never seen an ND  NEED 5 NAVY GA'S FOR MY  where : Carroll (didn't you  hey nil  
New Releases  loaded. Excellent condition. $4990.  game before and would love  PARENTS' DRINKING BUDDIES  read the headline?)  
-Silence of The Lambs  271-70181v. msg.  to go. Call Elizabeth at X4294.  why : it's SPOOOOOOKYI  LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes  
-Doors  Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please  Admission: $2  every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am.  
I made lots of $$$ over break and  call Dan x1740  The ghouling starts at 7:30  Eastern time. Train and jump the  
TYPING AVAILABLE  Hawaii  need 2 Navy GA's (hint) I Steve  ends at 10:30  same day. Modern equipment and  
2B7-40B2  AT Air Chicago to Honolulu  x2354  Sub Alum looking  training programs. Licensed  
NO-HAWAII game  FOR FOUR FOR  THE CARROLL HALL  instructors. FFI call Skydille  
Buy and Sell used books  call Andy 234-169B  Help!III I need 2 GA's for Navy  Penn St x2447  HAUNTED HOUSE  Hastings (616) 94B-2665.  
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and  Please call  
the NY Times too II  New 15 Gallon Tank w/ everything  Timmy @ 233-95BB.  Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets  "if you only make one trip out  CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP  
corner of ND ave and Howard  lor sale Paul2462  Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845.  to carroll this year, you  MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30P.M.  
233-2342/10-5:30 everyday  Help! Help! Help!  probably don't live there."  FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890  
TERM PAPERS/RESUMES  TICKETS  Alum needs Navy tickets!!!! Please call Terry Kaiwala  BIG BUCKS!! I need two Tenn. G.A.'s and I  KATIE MCBRIDE: Happy 20th  Irish Music & Dance@ Club 23  
Computer-Typed, 232-3325.  if you have  will pay greatly for them.  Birthday to the youngest junior on  Every Tuesday in October  
i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why  so, ..d GA's!l!lll  Call Chris at -1736.  campus! Too bad that as your  SEAMAISIN  
do you know what a TEC is?  don't you sell them to me? I am Jan.  (note: no apostrophe) years  
if so. please contact  Call me for a good time. 277-6BB5.  Need 3 student or GA's for Tenn.  $$$ I need lots o' GA's for Navy  increase your tolerance doesn't!  SPAINGBREAK SAILING  
Joe at 1 029 or Kathy at 4209  Rich x1926  and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for  Love, Your Roomies  BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Aaron or leave message. $$$  Groups of Six  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  WANTED. TOP$$$. B00-63B-7655.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The  
237-1949  I need three Navy tickets  Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  Bahamas. As Low as $4BB.OO each  
NEED TENN. GA'S.  desperately! Please help me out!  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  Including Cabin and Meals. Call  
LOST/FOUND  CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, OR 70B-251-4502 AFTER B PM.  Call x4274 and ask for Joe. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SELL MARRIED STD TIX NAVY, TENN 271 19 9B  2B9-1993. Office near campus. Don't forget to wish The Observer a  Anytime. 1-B00-999-7245 (SAIL)  
LOST: gray zip-up sweatshirt  i need GAs for NAVYIII Todd x17B4  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  I HAVE 2 NAVY GAS I  happy 25th birthday.  ATIENTION FAT DOG?  
w/hood with keys in pocket. Lost  WILL PAY $40 AND UP  JILL X3021  Think of the 125 years before your  GOOD LUCK ON YOUR TEST.  
Wed, 10/16, in Am. 220 O'Shag.  FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME  daily.  I LIKE YOU, TIMMY  
Call Dana 277-BOB4.  GAMES273-1 B02  CALL TOM  Desperately needed! Millions of  1-4-3  
X1762  Tenn tix of any kind -student or GA.  Ask BERT KOEHLER how he feels  KERRY  
LOST: Navy blue blazer at the SMC  WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT  We will pay big bucks! Call Jon Paul  about Northwest Airlines.  
Junior Dance on Fri. Oct.  TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL  NEED 4 TENN GA'S AND 2 NAVY  or Brian at 271-B049.  WARNING: Do this only when he is  To Lisa K. and Kim T. and all the  
11. I left coat on coat-rack in Haggar  2B4-3B14, LEAVE YOUR NAME,  GA'S. CALL #371B.  not within striking distance of you.  other DUDES of 4th-floor KNOTI­ 
Hall. 'Dilliards' brand  NUMBER AND PRICE  Need 1 Navy GA or stud ticket  (Having a nice day, Bert?)  you are all simply awesome and  
name on inside coat pocket.  I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY  Mary X2512  nothing more need be said.  
Reward. II found call Chris  Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs  GA TIXS.272-6306  WANT A HO?I X3858 TOOTlE II  
atx2377  Bridget X377B  Need 4 Navy nx and 1 Tenn. Stud.  FARLEY'S FINEST  
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S  Tic. X1604  HAVE A PERFECT PARTY YOUNG  
WANTED  NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE JOE X1360  TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL COLLECT  Need 4 Tenn. GA's X1604  BEAUTY. INVESTIGATE RIGHTEOUSNESS, TRUTH,  The Word of the Year is  
B12-477-2627  HEALTH, DOGMA, AND YOUTH  FUN  
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000  Need 3 USC GA's together::::  NEED TENN AND NAVY GAs.  NIGHT AND NOON. CLASSIFY  
mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII  Have 3 GA's(2 together) to  I need a Navy GA desperately  MONEY NO OBJECT.  YOURSELF DOGGEDLY,  Thanks lor all of it that you gave us.  
Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write  sell/trade. #1164  Call Mike x4655  Call Ron x2157  UNDAUNTED, NEVER NEEDFUL,  Remember that there is still more to  
IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del  LOVING, OUTGOING, VIVACIOUS,  come.  
Mar CA 92625.  NEED GA'S: 5 TENN & 1 NAVY  Need TENN & USC GA's Stan  HELP!! I I NEED 1 STD AND/OR  ENERGETIC. DAY AFTER DAY.  Love,  
KELLY X4B54  x1726  1-3 NAVY GA's FOR MY FAMILY  Doug, Chez and Oaks  
Statistics consultant wanted -ND  CALL AMY x2797  Top Ten Quotes from Sunny New  
professional specialist or grad  I NEED NAVY GA'S  TENNESSEE: NEED 6 GA'S  Mexico.  LONDON PROGRAM  
student, expert in stat & SPSS/PC  CALL KRISTIN 277-670B  SHARON 2B4-5146  I am willing to pay some serious  10. We can't drive a stick.  
4.0, to help local firm design &  bucks for Tennessee GA's.  9. I'm afraid to turn on my hair  APPLICATIONS  
implement customer surveys. Must  HELPII NEED USC AND TENN.  Need 2 GA's for Navy and  Please call Andy DeBartolo @  dryer.  
have time available. Send resume  TIXII CALL X3353  Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417.  233-95BB.  B. I don't think there are enough  are due  
to SBS/KMA, PO box 1024, Notre  video cameras here.  5:00P.M.  
Dame, IN 46556  HELP I I'm in need of 4 GA tics lor  I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC  Please Help II Need 3 Navy GAs  7. Grandma's following me around  Thursday, October 31  
the TENN game.  and Tennessee.  Call Janna or Elissa at x4220  and she has bad breath.  
Downtown book warehouse  Call Alissa at 284-5319.  Chris 239-5713  6. What's up Scapegoats?  Sharing our love with a baby would  
NOW HIRING Send Name, Add.,  Have 2 Navy G.A.'s, will trade/sell  5. For some reason I'm talking like  be a dream come true. Please help  
phone#, yr/major, to  Help! II I'm in dire need of  Please sell me your Tenn. GA  for 1 or 2 Tenn. G.A.'s. Dan x230B  a Hispanic person.  us with our dream. Call Marty or  
Mr. Turner. P.O. Box 4621  Tennesssee G.A.'s. Please call  or student tix. x29B5  4. What kind of family is this that  Nancy collect  
South Bend IN 46624  Andy @ 233-95BB.  Need NAVY & TENN GAs! x42B2  wants a dumb blonde from Michigan  (317) B42-B312.  
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS.  to drive?  
ALASKA SUMMER  Need 2 Navy GA's  RANDY B00-323-76B7.  NEED 1111  3. She was going to wear a blazer,  Pat Barth Happy late 20th  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  call Kim at x4355  One ticket for Tenn.  too.  B-day from the Roman Babes  
$5,000+/month. Free  BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs  GA or Student. Future domer  2. For those of you on the right  abroad. We miss you I  
transportation! Room & Board!  Help me show some southerners  Marc x1689  wants to see his first game  side, unfortunately there is nothing  S.T.-M.D.  
Over B,OOO openings. No  how real football is played. I need 2  call x1117  of particular interest to see.  
experience necessary. MALE or  TN GAs. Call Will at x3001.  Can you dig this! I am terribly  1. Be afraid, be very afraid!  Top 10 quotes of '91 D.C. Seminar:  
FEMALE. For employment program  interested in buying a Student ticket  I NEED NAVY GA'S OR STUD TIX  1 . Hil My name is Karl and I  
call Student Employment Services  Help! I need 1 Navy GA lor my  for Tennessee. Price is no object,  IN HONOR OF ABUSE ROB  pronounce it Chee-lay.  
at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 11 B.  little broil please call Amy at  unless of course you want more  WEEK, WE HAVE THE RULES  2. Well, o.k. Then you'll have an  
#4964  money than I am willing to pay you.  CALL TOM  FOR ROB:  army without shoes.  
NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please  Give Dave Bose a ring at 2B3-2015.  X1762  1. Thou shalt not slap our behinds.  3. Mari, wake up I  
Chris1791  2 Navy TN Stud nx to sell  II Dave is busy his personal stall will  2. Always use a knife to cut the  4. What's this dead owl doing in the  
TRAVEL FREE !I SELL QUALITY  272-B696  be happy to help you. Irish V-ball rules!!!!!!!!!!!  PERSONAL  cake. 3. You are not allowed to say." No  engine? 5. So Ed. tell us, where did you  
SPRING BREAK VACATION TO  Need 3 Navy GA's. Call Mike@  woman should be that pissed offl"  spend last night?  
JAMAICA. HIGHEST  x1630.  I desperately need 1 TENN stud  Lando and the Boys went out and  4. Just because you are going  6. Welcome to North Jackson, Ohio:  
COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR  ticket! Julie 277 -6B06  got a fatty old board I  home the day of your birthday  dry county, Dina's and Mickey and  
THE BEST!  GET MUCH $$$ FOR NAVY GA'S  doesn't mean you can't go out the  the Mechanics.  
SUN SPLASH TOURS  CALL MATI x1772  NEED 2 NAVY GAs WILL PAY  I am the Lizard King and I can do  night before.  7. I play all the time with myself.  
1-B00-426-7710.  $$$ CALL AMY 255B  anything.  5. No sarcasm allowed!  B. So there's smoke, what the hell?  
NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S $$$ IS  6. No mocking allowed I  How about a game of Euchre on the  
Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling  NO OBJECT CALL FRED  will buy any  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  7. No looking down our shirts to  Ohio turnpike?  
Spring Break Packages To  2B9-6439  tenn or navy  determine the color of  9. Hey Steve, any strong feelings  
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  tix.john 1B11  SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM?  undergarments.  lor Ollie North and Snickers?!  
Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring  i need a NAVY student ticket. pete  Trying to beef up a meatless  B. No smoking.  10. Mark: where are we?  
Break Travel 1-B00-63B-67B6.  x1791.  NEED 2 NAVY AND TENN GA'S  resume? We can help with all sorts  9. Never ever ever ever ever ever  What time do we have to be  
MIKE 1655  of editorial services.  ever ever ever get back together  ready?Where are we going?  
I DESPERATELY NEED A COPY  Helpi!!Need 2 GA's lor NAVY!!  IDEAS INTO INK  with an old girlfriend ..  
OF THE 19BB NOTRE DAME­ Call 2B4-429B $$$  WANTED: 3 TENN GA'S  2BB-350B  1 0. You shall not act like a  Thanks much, we had a great onell  
MIAMI GAME. IF YOU HAVE A  CALL x4774  c--k for one day of every week  
COPY THAT I COULD BORROW,  Bob Dylon concert tickets  CLUB 23  (courtesy of Brown).  "Halloween Headquarters·  
PLEASE CALL RICH AT "1047  2BB-4959  NEED 1 STUDENT and 3 GA'S  &  11 . You must always take our side  Masks, make-up, and spider webs I  
for NAVY  VIC'S SUBS  in an argument because the woman  Pumpkins lor carving, witchy trolls,  
WANTED: Butrus' affections.  $125.00 I will pay lor two general admission tickets next to each other  CALL KARIN at x1314111  are now open from  is always right. 12.Thou shalt come to the  and pumpkin bears I Skeleton earrings, tiny candy tins,  ...  
REWARD!  for ND-Tenn. Please callt-B00­ Need 2 Navy and 2 tennessee  11 am to 3 am  realization of who your superior is  and spooky sounds I  
745-5402 and ask lor Carl. In the  G.A.'S. Big $$$. Call Chris  and treat him with the respect and  The Country Harvester  
Love.  evening call my home at 1-214-492­ x2377  The Only Alternative  admiration he deserves (Brian V.).  M-F 12-5  
2 girls from Knott  B27B.  Live Music and Specials  13. Watch for those deer-crossing  Lower Level LaFortune  
Good afternoon, my friends.  (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays)  signs.  
FOR RENT  NEED: 2 GA's Navy and 4 GA's Tenn. Call John 273-9165.  I have a small request which I hope can be mutually beneficial to all  Phone : 234-4015  14. No drinking Mad-dog. 15. No more comments about  Comedy (FREE) lmprov (FREE) Show by Irish (FREE) Accent.  
involved. I desperately need 4 GAs  stronger than burt  bringing a purse to the bathroom.  Wednesday night , 9:00 (FREE) at  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Wealthy Double Domer from  for Tennessee. II you have any at all  16. No going to the bathroom and  Theodore's (FREE). II you want to  
219-291-7153  Albuquerque needs 2 Navy GAs.  please call Gina@ 29B2. Ill am  II you see Cesar Capella, Jon  ending up outside Farley.  laugh (FREE) come see the brand  
call x4942  unavailable. please leave a  Halloran  17. This is the first time you've  (FREE) new cast of Irish (FREE)  
2 bdrm house. $150 &  message so I can get back to you.  or Tara McDonald, congratulate  heard that I  Accent. and remember it's FREE III  
$200/Mo, Call Paui2B7-2159  Help! ND alum needs two Navy  them on  
Walk to campus.  GAs. Call Terry x4076  FOR SALE:  a great run in the:  Butrus- Tara  
1310 South Bend Ave.  Need TENN Tix! Will sell  UNSIGNED STUDENT TICKET BOOK WITH REMAINDER OF  1991 Chicago Marathon  Happy 21st to our favorite Stanford STUD !  Nice job on Sunday. Could not of done it without you!  - 
Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical  family members if a must!  HOME GAMES.  Love,  
home. No appliances. $550/mo.  Call Tom X1613  CALL AND MAKE GOOD OFFER­ Jon- Moe and Jen  
Call Jeanine Bizzaro 2B2-1762 or  JOE 271-1211  Congratulations on your personal  Paul Alden.  
Cressy & Everett/ BH & G 233­ I need 1 NAVY STUD lor a close  (leave name, number and offer  Best in the Marathon  Bachelor will pay $$$and dinner to  We know you are free man and  
6141.  friend.  if I'm not there)  Cesar  bachelorette for 2 Navy GA's. Steve  we want your short hot little bodyll  
Greg x1742  x2354  Love, Bonnie  

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
.: 
No air attack and chop blocks make for ugly offense 
COLORADO SPRINGS-Against 
scoring. successfully all night is to step backwards instead of the second best rushing team in "We couldn't get the momentum early, but we got stepping forward when the ball snap," said Germaine the nation, Notre Dame's defense two quick touchdowns and that was enough," said Holden, who replaced Young. "Then you lose needed a stellar performance quarterback Rick Mirer, who connected with Jerome everything off the snap so you really can't afford to do after only three days of practicing Bettis on a 7-yard touchdown pass for Notre Dame's that. You have to go out on the edge. Unfortunately my against the wishbone offense. first score. boys got hurt tonight." 
The ball control 'bone offense "Some strange things happened and we couldn't get Irish offensive tackle Mirko Jurkovic: "They're took its toll on Notre Dame a break. But no one got flustered by that." always down on your legs and grabbing. And it works. statistically, as the Falcons piled *** I give them a lot of credit. They played hard." on 354 yards on the ground Notre Chop blocking, and its use in the wishbone offense, Irish linebacker Jim Flanigan: "We had to try to stay Dame's 273. , Associate Sports Editor was the topic of many a conversation after ankle low and keep people from coming at our feet. But they 
But a force in the air the Falcons injuries to Eric Jones and Bryant Young. make it tough on you." were not. Quarterback Tony Perez was 3-for-12 for 26 While it may appear as a cheap shot to those Irish linebacker Demetrius DuBose: "They did what yards. And you thought our offense lacked excitement unfamiliar with the offensive attack, it's essentially the they had to do to put themselves in a winning at times. best way to keep the wishbone from faltering. position." 
*** "It's a scrappy offense that they run," said Mirer. 
1\vo illegal procedure calls against Notre Dame on "They did their jobs. Unfortunately we had a few guys Although the Falcons dominated the ground game, its intial possession of the game stalled the Irish at get banged up." they had no aerial attack. Against a national power, a best, but didn't do much to keep the offense from "The only way you can combat that kind of blocking one dimensional offense could not carry the Falcons. 
Bereich wins award, weather plays a role vs. USC 
By RENE FERRAN AND DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editors 
During Notre Dame's nation­ally televised game against Air Force on ESPN, sophomore linebacker Pete Bereich was awarded the Toyota Leadership Award. 
The award is presented to a player from each of the teams competing in ESPN's Prime Time Game of the Week. Selections are based on the player's contributions to his team, academic achievements and community service. 
Bereich will be presented with a commemorative plague and a $1000 donation to Notre 
Dame's general scholarship fund. 
After the win at Air Force, Demetrius DuBose was asked about the chances of a National Championship for the Irish without Eric Jones and Bryant Young in the lineup. 
"That's what Notre Dame's all about-stepping up. There were a lot of no names on the '88 team," said DuBose, who led the Irish with 19 tackles. "We've got a lot of no names also. People don't know to much about our defense. Hopefully we can go back and be successful." 
Senior tailback Tony Brooks continues to climb the all-time Irish rushing ladder. 
With his 83-yard performance Saturday against USC, Brooks moved to eighth on the career rushing list. He now has rushed for 2,013 yards in his four years, passing Don Miller (1 ,933), Marchy Schwarz (1,945) and Mark Green (1,977). 
Fullback Jerome Bettis, who scored his 13th and 14th touchdowns of the season against Southern Cal, posted his fourth straight game in which he has scored at least two touchdowns. 
"The entire offensive line was blocking well for both the tail­back and the fullback," said Bettis. "They deserve all the 
Women win, men lose against Indiana 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
The Irish swim teams took on the Hoosiers of Indiana University last Friday, with the women's team winning and the men's team coming up just short. 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team defeated Indiana University in a dual long-course meet. The Irish were led by junior Tanya Williams, who is one of the na­tio.n's top 25 backstroke swimmers. 
Williams won her best race, swimming the 200 meters in 
2:22.60. She also took top honors in the individual medley with a time of 2:25.87. 
"I was happy with my times," Friday. Despite Indiana's overwhelming talent, the Irish gave the Hoosiers a run for their money. 
"They have several NCAA ti­tles," said senior co-captain Jim Birmingham. "But I don't think we were intimidated." 
Birmingham and fellow co­captain Chuck Smith finished first and second in the 100 me­ter freestyle race. The Irish also got a one-two finish from juniors John Godfrey and Tom Whowell in the 200-meter backstroke, registering times of 2:15.56 and 2:20.04. 
Senior Roger Rand also turned in a first place finish in the 200-meter breaststroke with a time of 2:38.48. "I have to say I was pleased with my time," said Rand. 
"Everybody has the right to be real proud about how we swam," noted Birmingham. 
The close meet against a na­tional powerhouse like Indiana was a big step for the upstart men's swimming program at Notre Dame. 
"I think Notre Dame is ready to perform at a national level," said Rand. "It's been a long climb for us since our freshman year." 
said Williams. "They were fast ..----------------------•
for me for this time of year." 
A solid performance was turned in by senior Becky Wood, who finished first in the 200-meter breaststroke with a 
2:50.18. Wood has returned to contribute to the team after taking a year off due to surgery. 
The Irish freshmen also played a key role in the victory, as newcomer Jennifer Dahl won the 100 free sprint in 1:01.63. Freshmen Angie Roby, Amy Bethem, and Haley Scott also turned in excellent finishes. 
The Irish relay teams swept the 400-meter medley relay and the 400-meter freestyle relay, with times of 4:36.34 and 4:10.39, respectively. Williams, Wood, Scott, and Meghan Beeler took the Medley Relay and Beeler, Lorrei Horenkamp, Dahl, and Alicia Feehery won the free relay. 
"We were really excited. Everybody swam really well," said Williams. "We have a re­ally fast team this year, and hopefully we'll keep improving."
-
Perennial power Indiana University defeated the Irish men's swimming team 91-148 at Rolfs Aquatic Center on 
THE PROBLEM: BLURRY VISION 
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
* 
Eye exams and complete vision care 

* 
Same day service on most prescriptions 

* 
Conveniently located near campus 


200.4 Discount on materials to students and faculty 
.....
= ~ ::. 
-=? _? 

Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
2n-11s1 

VISA Mastercard 1635 N.lronwood 
and Discover accepted North of McDonalds 
credit in the world for a superb game." Bettis rushed for 178 yards. 
Mother Nature just couldn't stay away from Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. 
The wet weather affected play throughout the game. USC tail­back Deon Strother slipped several times on the muddy turf in the first half and Bettis changed his running style somewhat to compensate for the slippery conditions on his 53-yard touchdown run. 
"I didn't want to slide because people had been slipping a lot," said Bettis. "I tried to chop my feet instead and cut against the grain." 
"The footing was bad for both teams," added Lou Holtz. "It made it difficult to operate out there." 
Rick Mirer's 49-yard sideline pass to a diving Lake Dawson at the end of the third quarter did not go unrehearsed. 
"That was a great catch," said Lou Holtz of Dawson's perfectly timed dive. "What's amazing is the other day in practice, he made about three of those, and I said he's going to make one of those in a game and he's going to ignite the crowd. He's made some incredible catches in practice-this is the first time he's done it in a game." 
HAPPY 
21st BIRTHDAY DAVE!! 


~ttll0 

THEALL NEW POWERHOUSE GYM
ct~~ 
JEROBICS CENTER NOW~'~-~ OFFERING SUPER SPECIAL
GYM. STUDENT RAtES 
~~W.lm>JE: 
• J3000 Jbs OF~ ~&31Imf 
•INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE 
PROGRAMS-BUII.D,IREDUCE 
•ICARIAN 
EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
A:ROBICS-35 ClASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP A:ROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 


• LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 
• TANNING (ADD1770NAI.) 
• SPORTSWEAR CADDmONAIJ 

M-F 6:00 AM -1 0:00 PM SAT 8:00AM-6:00PM SUN 12:00 PM -4:00 PM 

POWI!RHOUSEGYM • 130WESTEDISONROAD • MISHAWAJCA.IN465&5
---·­

---=------~ 
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
The Observer page 17 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The ObserveriOavid Lee Tailback Tony Brooks dives into the endzone in the second quarter after catching a 15-yard Tailback Rodney Culver leaps over a pile of Trojan defenders. pass from Rick Mirer. 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Fullback Jerome Bettis takes off for some of his 178 yards. Bettis' 53-yard run was the longest of his career. 

-


The Observer/John Rock The ObserveriOavld Lee Tight end Derek Brown carries USC defenders for extra yards. Irish cornerback Jeff Burris smothers Trojan quarterback Reggie Perry for one of his six tackles. 
page 18 
5  GAMEl at Minnesota Saturday, Oct. 19  2  L-Leibrandt  
3  GAMEl at Minnesota Sunday, Ocl 20  2  
L-Aguilera  4  GAME 3 (12 inn.) at Atlanta Tuesday, Oct. 22  5  
L-Guthrie  2  GAME4 at Atlanta Wednesday, Oct, 23  3  W-Stanton  
L-Tapani  5  GAMES at Atlanta Thursday, Oct. 24  14  W-Glavine  :·.  
W-Aguilera  4  GAME 6 (11 inn.) at Minnesota Saturday, Oct. 26  3  L-Leibrandt  
W-Morris  GAME 7 (10 inn.) at Minnesota Sunday, Oct. 27  0  L-Peiia  


XC 
continued from page 24 
"For us to win the District meet, we've got to get better performances from the middle men," said Piane. "We need to tighten up the fourth, fifth, and sixth men a little more." 
Kearns feels the same way. 
"Meets are not won by John and Mike in front. They are won with depth. The pressure is on the back half of the seven now. We really have to run tighter to beat Loyola at the MCCs," said Kearns. 
The Observer 
Saint Mary's soccer continues winning ways 
By BRIDGET McCOURT Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team played a game at Rockford College on Sunday, defeating its opponent 3-0. 
The first goal came when sophomore Megan Dalsaso played the rebound from junior Stacy Winget's shot off the crossbar. The first half ended 2-0 after Winget beat three de­fenders to score unassisted. 
The last goal was scored with only two minutes remaining in the game. Senior co-captain Kelly Cook sent a pass out from midfield to Dalsaso, who beat the goalie for the final score. 
The Belles (8-2-2) defense also played a strong game, not allowing Rockford to get off even one shot on goal. 
Saint Mary's has just been 
Love, Stadium 
~­
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski team/club will have a very important meeting Thursday, October 31 at 7 p.m. in Montegomery Theatre in LaFortune. It's Holloween night so meeting will be short! Questions, call Chris 277-7089. 

•WVFI 
Sportstalk returns tonight from 8-9 p.m. on 640 AM. Call 239-6400 to give your thoughts on the USC game, the World Series, or any other sports event from the past two weeks. 


ranked 19th among all NCAA the nation. Division III teams in the nation. "They are the strongest and This is the first time in team the fastest team we will face all history it has cracked the na­year," said Winget. "We have tional rankings. The Belles also been working on defensive are ranked third in the Great strategy to cut down their Lakes Region. strong offensive attack." 
Today, the team will have the home field advantage when it A win in today's game would faces off against Kalamazoo prove that Saint Mary's is de­College at 3:30p.m. Kalamazoo serving of a post-season bid, a is the top-ranked team in the bid it is working harder and region, and ranked seventh in harder to receive. 

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
ORDER THIS WEEK AND 
YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 
r---------------,
I 16'' PARTY SIZE I 
: ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
:I lit $6.99 :I 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any 1 other offer. Limited delivery area to ensure safe driving. 1
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
r--------------~
271-0300 289-0033 I 14" LARGE I 
I

1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. 816 PORTAGE AVE. 
I ONE TOPPING PIZZA : 
I 

I 1100 $5.99 : 

I I 
J-
Offer expires 12!31/91. Valid at participating stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any other offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe driving. -:
NOBODY 
1 12" MEDIUM 1
KNOWS
-
: ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
LIKE 
: II® $4.99 :
®DOMINO'Ssm 
I Offer expires 12!31/91. Valid at participatin_g stores only. 1 I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valid with any 
1
HowYou Uke Pizza At Home. L other offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe driving. .J 
Tuesday October 29, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Two frosh defenders come of age against Trojans 
After losing two-thirds of its defensive line last week against Air Force, Notre Dame was in dire straits for what has become the most storied intersectional rivalries in collegiate football. 
All kinds of questions sur­rounded the Irish against USC: Who would replace Bryant Young 

and Eric Jones on the defensive DAVE McMAHON line? What did the loss of those Associate Sports Editor two mean to the team on the ------­whole? Was Lou Holtz telling like it was when he said that the Irish had won a game against Air Force but lost a team? 
Young, although only a sophomore, was almost as­suredly a future All-American and often drew comparisons to Chris Zorich, who had started at nose tackle for the past three years. 
Jones suffered the more serious of the two ankle injuries and will be lucky to play ball in the spring. And I don't mean ball for Tequila White lightning in Bookstore XXI. 
While some questions linger, the most dominant one was answered in fine form Saturday against Southern Cal. 
First-year players are no longer considered freshmen on the Irish football team. Defensive lineman Germaine Holden and linebacker 
Justin Goheen came through in the clutch Saturday, with Goheen leading the rookie show. 
Holden, starting in his first game for the Irish at right tackle, provided adequate pressure on USC quarterback Reggie Perry. Holden, playing the entire game, ended the day with one tackle for a loss of three yards. 
One interception didn't satisfy Holden. 
"I wish we could've had a sack," said Holden (6-4, 240). "We had to stay on the edges to make sure we contained Perry because he's dangerous if he gets outside." 
The surprise for the Irish came at linebacker, where Justin Goheen (6-3, 220) posted five unassisted and seven assisted tackles. With sophomore Pete Bereich missing three days of practice because of personal reasons, Goheen was given the nod against the Trojans. 
Saturday was a long time coming for the freshman. 
"I was nervous all week, but it kind of eased up after Mass this morning," said Goheen. "Then I talked to Demetrius for awhile and that helped too." 
DuBose, after stepping up two years ago to replace an injured Mike Stonebreaker at linebacker, realized the freshmen's predicament. 
"I told them to come to me if they had any questions or just wanted to talk about it," said DuBose, a Butkus Award candidate who led the Irish with 15 total tackles. "Those were true freshman starting in our biggest game of their lives in the biggest rivalry in the world. They played with a lot of confidence." 
After an interception late in the third quarter by Southern Cal nose tackle Mike Hinz, the Trojans threatened deep in Irish territory. On first and ten at the 15, Goheen nailed tailback Deon Strother at the nine yard line, stripping the ball free and recovering the fumble at the Notre Dame 11. 
"I didn't intend to strip the ball," said Goheen. "I just wanted to make contact." 
He didn't mean to, but he caused one of the most significant turnovers in the game. Not only did it put the Irish back on offense, but it allowed Goheen to reach his goal for the day. 
"The main thing for me was to make sure I didn't let my teammates down," Goheen said. Consider it a mission accomplished for the newcomer. Or is he a newcomer? 
"After this many games they're really not freshmen anymore," said nose tackle Junior Bryant. "They all stepped up and did what they had to for us to win." 
With freshmen replacing two established starters, Holtz didn't know what to expect of his team. The change didn't see to effect the defense in a negative way. 
"We weren't at all apprehensive," said DuBose. "We know that if someone goes down, we've got the players who can step up." 
Saturday, two of them proved it. 
Trojans 
continued from page 24 
torn tendon in the pinky of his throwing hand. 
"He's a young kid that once he gets a feel for things, he settles in and does what he's capable of," said Trojan coach Larry Smith. 
But it was his decision not to throw to a wide-open Raoul Spears on fourth-and-two at the Irish six that will be re­membered most about his sec­ond-half performance. Instead, cornerback .lefT Burris tackled Perry for no gain and USC was turned away. 
"As I rolled out, I saw Raoul open, but I couldn't move the pinky on my right hand," Perry explained. "Before that play, I felt a twinge in it, and I was just afraid to throw the ball." 
In the first half, Perry was afraid to throw the ball, but for a different reason. The Notre Dame secondary did an excel­lent job, picking ofT two passes and forcing Perry to throw sev­eral other balls away. 
At the same time, the Irish offense, behind the strong run­ning of sophomore Jerome Bettis (game-high 178 rushing yards), churned out 248 yards and took a 14-0 halftime lead. 
"He's a great fullback, the best I've ever seen," praised Smith. "He's the core of the Notre Dame offense." 
Bettis opened the scoring in the first quarter, running un­touched through a huge hole on the left side. Once in the clear, he outraced two Trojan defend­ers 53 yards to the corner of the end zone. 
Notre Dame's next touchdown drive ended on a controversial play. Quarterback Rick Mirer rolled out on first down at the USC 15 and flipped a pass to Tony Brooks. 
Brooks rambled down the right sideline and dove for the end zone. The ball appeared to squirt loose at the one, but the official signalled an Irish touchdown. 
The second half started with USC on the move, but Burris' tackle ended that drive. After an Irish punt, though, USC picked up where it had left ofT. 
Perry hit Larry Wallace deep down the middle for a 4 7 -yard gain, and on the next play, Strother sprinted through a hole up the middle 29 yards to cut the lead to 14-7. 
The Trojans received another golden opportunity moments later when Bettis fumbled at the USC 37 and nose guard Mike Hinz recovered. 
"We haven't played a real good football game yet without turning the ball over," Holtz said. 
Southern Cal drove 48 yards and were poised for the tying score when Goheen made his big play. DuBose recovered the loose ball, and the Irish dodged another bullet. 
They immediately took advan-
Saint Mary's Students are going Into the Streets... 
SIGN UP FOR "INTO THE STREETS"••.SEE HOW YOU CAN 
CON~UTETOYOURCOMMUNITY 
TIIURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 6-8 p.m. LEMANS LOBBY 
On October 30th, Saint Mary's students wiU have an opportunity to learn about community service volunteer opportunities here in South Bend From 6-8 p.m Saint Mary's students can sign up to participate in a ''trial" volunteer experiencefor the week ofNovember 18-21 in which they wiU 
volunteer and learn about a particular service agency and what volunteers there do. 
.,. 
Longer term volunteer coordination and internships wiU be made availablefoUowing the Into the Streets experience. 

For more information, please call the SURV Center at 284-5368 or Sharon Zint, Student Volunteer Coordinator at 284-5130. 
SURV 

tage. After gaining a first down, Mirer threw a 49-yard bomb to a diving Lake Dawson down the left sideline. 
Inspired by Dawson's acro­batics, the Irish marched the length of the field, capping the drive on Bettis' one-yard plunge to take a 21-7 lead. 
But the Trojans refused to die. They forced another Irish turnover when Kurt Barber sacked Mirer from the blind side, jarring the ball loose, and Terry McDaniels recovered at the Irish 20. Two plays later, tailback Mazio Royster dashed 14 yards to cut the margin to seven. 
"We could never take control of the ball game, and that's a complement to Southern Cal-they wouldn't let us," Holtz said. 
Notre Dame answered back on its next possession, driving 63 yards on eight plays, with Craig Hentrich converting on a 34-yard field goal to give the Irish a 24-14 lead with 4:50 remaining. 
USC then drove 73 yards it­self, capping it ofT with a four­yard touchdown run by Spears. After missing the two-point conversion, the score stood 24­20 Irish with 1 :50 left. Another classic NO-USC game was coming down to the wire. 
The Trojans attempted an onside kick, and after bouncing ofT two Irish players' hands,the ball was up for grabs at midfield. A mad pileup ensued, and when the players finally were pried away, the referee signalled Notre Dame's ball, as Irv Smith had dived in and recovered the loose pigskin. That's when Smith decided to have his say, drawing an unsportsmanlike conduct penal­ty when he raced across the field to question the call. 
"I went over there for one reason, because my guy (cornerback Marvin Pollard) came up with the ball," Smith commented. 
Holtz saw it differently. 

"Irv Smith and the young man from Southern Cal both had the ball. lrv had every bit as much of it as anyone else," he said. "Even after the ref signalled ND ball, neither would let go yet. Only after I tapped him on the back and told him it was our ball did Irv let go, and that's when (Pollard) jumped up with it." 
Just the type of ending you'd expect from a Notre Dame­
• 
~~-:::;::;:-:M...-=­
f'\ORffiU ernT~tR cfcSR Tttf ~ RT s 
Oct. 11-Nov. 8 Thurs. Nov. 7 Moreau Galleries Little Theatre 
Dianne Reeves Saint Mary's Handmade Paper Women's Choir Susan Messer, Fall Concert 
Drawings Admission Free Admission Free 
Fri. Nov. 23 

O'Laughlin Auditorium Little Theatre Jonathan Frid's Nov. 14-17 
Saint Mary's Theatre 

Hansel and Gretel: Shakespearean An Old Tale Newly Told Odyssey Saint Mary's Saint Mary's student tickets: $3
student tickets: $3 

Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders at 284-4626. 
... . i!t---­
Saint_Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME·· I NOlANA 

• 


Southern Cal matchup. 
• 
-
-
• 

page 20 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
Volleyball team aiming for a post-season tourney 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Quietly, the Notre Dame vol­leyball team has recovered from a mid-season slump to put itself in position for a possible post­season bid. 
Not the NCAAs, mind you, but after back-to-hack losing sea­sons, the National Invitational Volleyball Championships is a start. 
The Irish won five of six matches over fall break to up their record to 13-8, and their 4-0 conference mark positions them for an excellent shot at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference's automatic bid to the NIVC. 
With only Loyola (3-1 in MCC play) left on its MCC slate, Notre Dame is assured of no worse than the number-two seed at the conference tournament November 15-16 in Indianapolis. The winner of the league tourney receives the berth in the NIVC held 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Petrucelli said, "She has always been a keeper who makes aver­age saves, but now she is mak­ing great saves. She is winning games for us." 
Porter opened the scoring with a header which came off of Tiffany Thompson's corner kick. It was Porter's Notre Dame record 16th goal of the season. Xavier answered just forty-five seconds later when Tricia Feldhaus snuck a low shot past Lodyga. 
"We played well, but we gave up some chances that they should not have had," Petrucelli commented. 
The win over Xavier topped a week that saw Notre Dame played competitively with two top-20 teams on the road and maintain their perfect record at home. 
The Irish started the week with a trip to New England where they faced lOth-ranked Massachusetts and 20th-ranked Providence. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
said MacLeod. "I told him that his best bet right now would be to stay in school, have a big year against the schedule we have, and emerge this year as one of the top (college) play­ers." 
The only 1990-91 starter not returning for the Irish is point guard Tim Singleton, who ranks second on the all-time career assists list. His replacement will be senior Elmer Bennett (14.4 ppg, 4.6 apg, .368 three-point shooting), who played primarily shooting guard his first three 
... 
years at Notre Dame. MacLeod expressed confidence, however, that Bennett could make a smooth transition to the point. 
"He's shown a lot of leader­ship so far," MacLeod said. "He's the type of point guard that will distribute the ball, run
-
the plays, and with his offensive ability, I also want him to be a scorer." 
Along with Ellis and Bennett, 
MacLeod tentatively listed se­
niors Daimon Sweet (16.3 ppg), 
-Keith Tower (7. 9 ppg, 7.0 rpg) and sophomore Carl Cozen (1. 7 ppg) as the starting lineup for the season-opening exhibition game against Bayreuth (Germany) November 13th. And although this is almost 
'' ----•1..-4-.-;..,...;,..'hn,.l 
December 5-7 at Wright State University. 
"One of our top goals going into this season was to make a postseason tournament. That's still really important to us, and we're pursuing it wholeheart­edly," said Irish coach Debbie Brown. "We want to establish the mindset in this program that we will always be playing in the postseason." 
After opening MCC play with easy victories over Butler (16­14, 15-11, 15-11) and Evansville (15-8, 15-5, 15-2) last weekend, Notre Dame still entertained thoughts of making the 32-team NCAA field. But a four-game loss to 15th-ranked Illinois last Tuesday effectively dashed those hopes. 
"Before we went to Illinois, we thought that to have a legit­imate shot at making the NCAAs, we needed to beat them," said Brown. "After we lost that match, we put the NCAA competition out of our minds." 
Last Saturday, Notre Dame dropped a close 1-0 decision to UMass when Minutewomen forward Tracy Arwood scored the lone goal of the contest halfway through the second half. 
"This game proved that we can play even with anybody," Petrucelli said, "The difference was that in the first half they made a mistake in back and we failed to capitalize. In the sec­ond half, we made one and they scored." 
At Providence, Petrucelli made a switch in his lineup, moving Lester to forward and Zilvitis to midfield. The move paid immediate dividends as Lester assisted Zilvitis's game­winning goal in the Irish's 2-0 overtime win. 
"Susie did a great job at mid die," Petrucelli commented, "I feel we are a better team with Susie in the midfield and Alison up front." 
Notre Dame then returned home and dominated Louisville on Friday. The Irish outshot the Cardinals 18-4 in their 6-1 win. Lester and Zilvitis once again played well in their new 
last season 12-20 and lost four games to top-ranked teams in the final seconds, the team is confident that it can fmally live up to the potential predicted of it in recent years. 
"We're not really respected by the so-called basketball ex­perts," said Tower. "The only way you get respect is by going into someone's living room and kicking their tails, and we play all the best in their living rooms." 
Notes: Sophomore Brendan Tully survived the annual walk­on tryouts to become the newest member of the team. The 6-5, 205-pound forward was an all-conference and honorable mention all-state se­lection at East Grand Rapids High School in Michigan, aver­aging 21 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists ... Bayreuth is a last-minute replacement for the Slavia Prague team of Czechoslovakia. The Czech na­tional team advanced to the next round of European quali­fications, and Slavia Prague had four members on the team. Bayreuth is a first division team in Germany ... The team will make practice sessions open to the public the mornings of the two remaining home football games, including scrimmages after practice. The Nov. 2 (Navy) practice session will start at 10 a.m., while the Nov. 9 (Tennessee) practice begins at 
~·~0 11m. 


Marilyn Cragin 
Notre Dame hung tough with Illinois early, taking an early lead in the first game before falling 15-12. The Irish didn't lose heart, however, and de­feated the Illini 15-7 in the next game. 
Illinois took over the match in game three, however, and be­hind Sue Nucci's 15 kills, took the final two games 15-4, 15-7. 
Junior Marilyn Cragin, named MCC Player of the Week after the Irish swept Butler and Evansville, continued her stellar play against the Illini. She had a team-high 13 kills, while fellow junior Jessica Fiebelkorn added seven kills and 11 digs. 
"I was very pleased with our play in the first two games," Brown said. "Even after losing the lead (in game one), we came back and played really strong in the second." 
The team returned to the Joyce ACC this weekend for three matches in three days. Notre Dame swept through MCC foes Xavier (15-10, 15-2, 10-15, 15-7) and Dayton (15-5, 15-9, 15-4) before trouncing non­conference opponent Akron (15-11, 15-8, 15-0) on Sunday afternoon. 
Against the Musketeers, the Irish struggled in the first game, but appeared to find a rhythm in game two. They rattled off seven straight points to open the game, and closed it out with another string of eight in a row. 
Xavier came back to win the third game when Notre Dame's second unit was unable to put the match away. Brown rein­serted starters Alicia Turner and Christy Peters back into the lineup for game four, however, and the Irish raced out to a 7-1 lead and never looked back. 
"That's hard to do-sit out a game, come back and finish it up-but the first team came back in and did a great job," Brown said. 
After cruising past Dayton, the Irish came out flat against Akron. The Zips took an early 7-4 lead, and Brown called a timeout to wake up the team. 
It certainly had the desired effect, as from then on, Notre Dame dominated, culminating in the third-game shutout-its first shutout since a 1989 match against Penn. 
"I was very disappointed with our intensity level early on, but the team did a much better job as the match went on," Brown said. "A shutout doesn't happen very often, and it was especially nice because we had a lot of subs in and they executed really well." 
positions. Lester scored a goal play over the week, and feels road against eighth ranked and two assists, and Zilvitis confident about the remainder Central Florida on Saturday. added a goal and an assist. of the season, which includes "We have really come to­
games at home versus Wright gether as a team, and we are Overall, Petrucelli was ex­State, a team which defeated peaking at the right time," he tremely pleased with his team's Xavier, tomorrow, and on the added. 
Introducing...Apple PowerBook, Macintosh Quadra, and the Macintosh Classic II 
UNIVERSITY of N2TRE DAHE 
COMPUTER 

Stepan Center 
Friday, November 1 
12pm-Spm 
Saturday, November 2 
8am -12pm 
Sunday, November 3 
lOam-3pm 

AppleComputer,Inc. 
©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc. 
.-------------~------------~-----~~-~ -­
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 21 

Men's soccer had busy break, playing four games 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Four games against somn of tho nation's best tnams knpt the Notnl Damn men's soecnr tnam busy during fall hrnak. 
Tlw Irish went 2-1-1 for the WIWk. beating l>nPaul (6-0) and G1wrgntown (4-1). losing to South Carolina (2-0) and tying Acklphi (2-2). 
ll got slartnd on Octobnr 19th with tho thrashing of outmaldwd l>nPaul. 
l·:vllryonn got into tho act against thn Bhw Dnmons as six dil'fnnmt players notched goals in tlw shutout. 
Senior Kenyon Meyer startnd tlw flurry before freshman Tim Oates and sophomore Mike 
Falcons 
continued from page 24 
or sonwthing. but in a game likP this whPrl' all kinds of things went wrong and to top it off with these two injuries is just unbnlinvabln." 
(."rnshmnn GPrmaine Holden and .John Taliafnrro. both insidP lirwhackPrs in high school, Palmer each scored within a four-minute span to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
Junior Kevin Pendergast and freshmen Tont Richardson and .Jason Fox also added goals to round out the Irish attack. 
Goalies Bert Bader and Matt Fitz combined to preserve the shutout and give the Irish their sixth eonsncutive victory. 
The streak wouldn't stop at six, however, as the Irish put another one in the win column on the road at Georgetown. 
The lloyas provided more of a challenge, but they didn't have enough firepower to stop the streaking Irish. Oates collected the lone first-half goal on an assist from freshman Jean Joseph. giving the Irish a 1-0 
combined for eight tackles in relief of .Jones and Young. 
After a 42-yard field goal on their first possession by Air Foree kicker Joe Wood put the Falcons ahead 3-0, Notre Dame began the lirst of two consecu­tive 70-plus yard drives. 
Irish quarterback Hick Mirer finished a 76-yard march with a seven-yard touchdown pass to fullback Jerome Bettis for the first Irish touchdown. Craig llentrich kicked the point after lead at the break. 
Georgetown's Todd Ginney answered quickly in the second half to tie the game, but that was all the offense the lfoyas could muster. Another Irish second-half scoring barrage began as a Georgetown de­fender redirected Joseph's header into the net. 
Meyer headed in a Palmer corner kick, and Joseph knocked in a deflected pass, giving the Irish the final 4-1 margin and their seventh con­secutive victory. 
Next on the Irish slate was the South Carolina Met Life Classic last Saturday and Sunday 
Eighth-ranked South Carolina used two early goals to knock off the Irish, ending their im­
touchdown to give Notre Dame the lead for the duration. 
Air Force responded with 11 consecutive rushes for 73 yards before Wood connected on a 24­yard field goal to cut the lead 7­6. 
After recovering a fumbled by Irish punt returner Jeff Burris, Wood had a chance to put the Falcons ahead, but missed wide left on a 39-yard field goal at­tempt. 
Then the Irish offense 
pressive win streak. Rob Smith got the Gamecocks on the board at the 6:35 mark on an assist from Hans Lohner before Andrew Coggins knocked in a Matt Haiduk corner kick seven minutes later to round out the scoring. 
The 2-0 defeat marked not only the end of the seven game winning streak, but it was also the first time in nine games that the Irish offense was shutout. 
In the second game of the Met Life Classic, the Irish battled a tough Adelphi team to a 2-2 tie. 
After a scoreless first half, George Gjokaj gave the Panthers a 1-0 lead at the 65:16 mark. Joseph pulled the Irish into a tie 20 minutes later on an assist from Mario Tricoci and that's how it would stay until Adelphi's Yossi Cohen put the Panthers ahead early in the first overtime period. 
It looked like the Irish might be facing their second consecu­tive loss until Joseph notched a goal with less than three min­utes remaining in the final overtime period to salvage a tie. 
The Irish, now 9-4-2, are preparing for the final two games of the season. Westflrn Michigan comes to town Wednesday night before Kentucky rounds out the regu­lar season Sunday afternoon. 
cranked into gear. coverage and Tony just ran a 
On first and ten from their good route," said Mirer, who own 22 yard-line, the Irish were finished 6-for-12 for !51 yards penalized five yards for illegal and two touchdowns. "I got the motion. On the second try, ball to him where he needed it Mirer connected with split end and caught it and stride. We've Tony Smith across the middle been looking for a deep ball for for an 83-yard touchdown pass. a while and finally got one." The pass was the longest After Ridgley caused and re­completion of Mirer's career covered a fumble by Perez at and ranks as the fifth longest the Air Force 32, Bettis crashed pass play of all-time for the in from three yards, giving the Irish. Irish a 21-6 lead with 1:13 re­
"They were in a three-deep maining. 
Even Before The Game Begins,We Know Who The Winners Are. 
Peter Bereich of the University of Notre Dame 
Toyota honors sophomore, linebacker, Peter Bereich ofthe University of Notre Dame, as arecipient ofthe Toyota Leadership Award for demonstrating outstanding leadership in academics, athletics, and community service. Peter Bereich will receive the Toyota Leadership Award plaque and the University ofNotre Dame will receive a$1 ,000 contribution to its general scholarship fund. As a leader in its own field, Toyota is proud to recognize players like Peter Bereich who demonstrate that there is more to college football players than just what you see on Saturday afternoons. 
61/ove what you dofor me:' 
@TOYOTA 

With no time on the clock, Wood easily connected on a 58­yard field goal to cut the gap to 21-9 at halftime. 
"We tightened up on defense inside the 20 yard-line," said linebacker Jim Flanigan, who had eight tackles for the Irish. "We came through when we had to by the goal line. It could've easily been a 21-21 ballgame at halftime." 
In the second half, Notre Dame picked up where it left off offensively. After Dean Lytle recovered an on-sides kick at the Air Force 45, the Irish drove 55 yards in eight plays. Bettis recorded his third touchdown of the game and 1Oth of the year on a 19-yard run behind right tackle Lindsay Knapp. 
The final three Irish touch­down drives amassed 5:03 of game time. 
The only other Irish scoring threat was halted with 2:42 left in the third quarter when tail­back Rodney Culver fumbled at the Air Force 12 yard-line. 
Despite a total time of pos­session advantage over the Irish of 35:03 to 23:41, the Falcons kept the ball only four seconds more than Notre Dame in the third quarter. Air Force entered the game second in the nation in rushing (344 yards per game). 
In a balanced wishbone at­tack, fullback Jason Jones piled up career-highs of 171 yards rushing on 37 attempts. Perez added 125 on the ground on 26 carries for his fifth 100-yard rushing game this season. 
"We weren't surprised at the fullback running because he's the key to their entire ofl'ense," said Notre Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose, who led the Irish with nine unassisted tack­les. 
"We tried to contain the quarterback but our primary responsibility was to stop the fullback. We gave up one touchdown, which I think is outstanding," said DuBose. "The defense overall did a good job as far as holding them down when we needed to." ­
After the fumble recovery, Air Force drove 91 yards on 21 rushing plays for its lone touchdown. The two-point con­version failed. 
"They do so many things so 
-
well and are so disciplined," said Mirer. "We've got to give them credit. You can see how they won six ballgames." 
•• .t ll.• 

... ' -; ... :"I •.•• 
-~--~~------­
----------------~~-~ -----------. page 22 The Observer Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
Women's cross-country Top six stay the same, PSU and
finishes second at meet 
'Barna tie for 7th 
... 
-
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Widespread illness couldn't keep the Notre Dame women's cross-country team from cap­turing a second-place finish in the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet, ran in Bloomington on October 18. 
The Irish lost several runners, including one of their top performers, freshman Emily Husted, to various illnesses ranging from colds to bronchi­tis. 
"It was a good meet," said freshman Stefanie Jensen. "But we had the injuries and sick­ness that held us back." 
Nevertheless, Jensen contin­ued a sparkling 1991 campaign by leading the Irish with a fourth-place finish. Jensen has been the second Notre Dame finisher for the last two meets, before taking the top spot in Bloomington. 
"It was a good race for me," said the California native. "I was focused." 
Another freshman, Eva Flood, continued her outstanding running. She carne in at sixth place after finishing first for the Irish in the last two meets. 
Senior Diana Bradley, who also continues to turn in excel­lent performances, was the third Irish runner to cross the finish line. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly didn't expect the Irish to run away with the meet, due to the team's health problems. 
"We didn't run well at all," noted Connelly. "But I wasn't surprised, concerning how much sickness we had." 
However, Connelly felt the Irish still could have won the meet. 
"I think we should have ran better," stated Connelly. 
Next week the Irish travel to 4 Chicago to compete in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships, a meet they won last year. 
"Everybody seems healthy for this Saturday," noted Connelly. 
With a healthy team, the Irish plan to successfully defend their MCC Championship in the Windy City. 
Campus Ministry 
11)127 10120 T••m J1•t-e!.vote•J Rtlc. Pto. Next game 
1. (1) Florida State [25] 9-0 720 1112 at Louisville 
2. (2) Miami [1] 3. (3) Washington [3] 4. (4) Michigan 
(5) 
Notre Dame 

(6) 
Florida 


(7) Penn Stale tie (8) Alabama 
9. (9) Nebraska 10. (10) Cal~ornia 11. (11) Iowa 
12. 
(15) Texas A&M 

13. 
(14) Ohio State 14. (13) 


Tenn..­15. (19) Clemson 16. (16) Colorado 
(21) 
East Carolina 

(20) 
Syracuse 

(12) 
N.C. State 

(18) 
Oklahoma 

(22) 
Baylor 

(23) 
Georgia (-) Arkansas (-) UCLA 


25. H Fresno Stale 

Others receiving votes: Mississippi Stale19, Pittsburgh 15, Indiana 12, Duke 10, Illinois 9, Air Force 7.5, Auburn 6, Virginia 6, Bowling Green 5, Southern Cal 5, West Virginia 5, San Diego State 3, Arizona State 2, Brigham Young 2, Georgia Tech 2, TCU 2, Texas 2, Boston College 1, Georgia Southern 1, Northwestern 1. 
Bold indicates NO opponent 
Schools participating: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State, Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Florida, Florida State, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Miami, Michigan, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn, Penn State, Purdue, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
... considerations 
A shift of vision 
When I was very young, I used to lie awake at night, waiting for my 
parents to come home from an evening outing. We lived in Westford, 
Vermont --population 800 --and the country road that led to our door 
had a peculiar way of announcing to all who cared to listen that a car 
was making its way down the pike. First came the whine of tires (you 
could hear this for miles on a brittle autumn night), and then, as if to 
confirm what you already knew, the headlights would begin to flirt 
with the horizon. 
Back in those days, it seemed I never went to sleep while Mom and 
Dad were out with their friends. I always had to be assured that the 
headlights had made it into the driveway before I could give myself 
over to the dark hours. 
• On a recent Tuesday this past September, my mom called me from Florida. "Dad's gone," she said to me, in a voice that seemed to be calling from an entirely different planet. "Great," I thought to myself, "they've gone and had it out again." Mom traces her roots to Ireland, and my Dad's ancestry is across the pond, in England_ It doesn't take too much imagination to understand some of their chemistry. 
But then my mother told me the words that even now I suffer to type into this computer. "Steve," she said, "Dad's dead." 
The next day, flying down to Sarasota, I looked with dread toward the inevitable events of the upcoming days. To eulogize, to choose a casket, to force oneself to look at short-and long-term finances, when 
all that was wanted was to wallow in grief. By the time the plane had 
landed, I thought I'd prepared myself, at least mentally, for a few of those inevitable "big events." 
But I'd found that I hadn't prepared myself for an unexpectedly small event--seeing my mother, alone at the airport without her spouse, for the first time. 
And it seems to me, after looking over the last month, that coping with the mystery of death is made up of both the "big events" and the "small events." The big ones could be those moments you've been exposed to and know you'll have to go through_ The funeral, the wake, the graveside, the first shocks of grief and loss and lack of direction_ The small things are more like this: when you're walking along, and someone clears his throat the way your Dad used to, and your heart drops down to your ankles. 
7-0 684 1119 vs. West Virginia 7-0 693 1112 vs. Arizona State 6-1 634 1112 vs. Purdue 7-1 593 1112 vs. Navy 5-1 597 1112 at Auburn 7-2 512 11/9 at Maryland 6-1 512 11/2 vs. Mississippi State 6-1 503 1112 at Colorado 6-1 476 11/2 vs. Southern Cal 6-1 437 1112 at Ohio State 5-1 369 11/2 at Rice 6-1 356 1112 vs.lawa 4-2 331 11/2 vs. Memphis State 5-1-1 322 11/2 vs. Wake Forest 5-2 297 1112 \'S. Nebraska 6-1 267 11/2 \'S, Tulane 6-2 229 1112 \'S. Tell1Jie 6-1 198 11/2 at South Carolina 5-2 192 1112 vs. Kansas State 6-2 140 11/2 at Arkansas 6-2 128 11/9 vs. Florida 5-2 60.5 11/2 vs. Baylor 5-2 40 11/2 vs. Washington St. 7-0 34 11/2 at Utah State 
Observer Staff Report 
The top six teams remained unchanged in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
Florida State and Miami re­tained the top two spots, con­tinuing on their November 16th collision course. The Seminoles captured 25 first-place votes and 720 total points, while the Hurricanes (684 points) clung to the second position by just one point over the Washington Huskies. 
Michigan (52-6 winners over Minnesota), Notre Dame (24-20 over Southern Cal), and idle Florida held on to fourth, fifth, and sixth respectively. Alabama moved into a tie for seventh with Penn State, while Nebraska and California rounded out the top ten. 
Three teams moved into this week's poll. Arkansas, UCLA and Fresno State grabbed the bottom three rungs on the lad­der, displacing Illinois (17 -11 losers to Northwestern), Pittsburgh and Auburn. 

I make these remarks, not only after reflecting on my own grief, but 
also after watching the students here at Notre Dame who have been 
trying to embrace their loss after the death of their friends: Jeff 
Engelmeier, Carolyn Schippereit, Jay Kelly, and most recently, Sr. 
Jeannine Jochman, esc. There were wonderful memorial masses for 
each of them. These were the big events, which served a very 
important purpose_ But in the midst of these big moments, the stories 
that were told were of seemingly small, insignificant events --events 
which left lasting, searing impressions on their friends_ 
After my Dad passed away, a small event took-place in my office, but its happening broke upon me as a moment of great significance. Tom McDermott shuffled in to my office after a pilgrimage to Kenya. "You know," he mused, "they say that the death of your father is one of the most significant events in a man's life. It's like your whole vision gets shifted." 
You are blessed, Tom, because in your musing you announced a great truth to me. And I'm sure that for all of the students that have felt the loss of Jeff and Carolyn and Jay and Jeannine, they have also had tidings announced to them. Tidings, lovingly passed on through friends, which tell us not to fear death. Tidings which tell us that memories, not just flesh and bone, are the stuff of life. 
There are now no more assurances that my Dad is heading into the driveway, that by catching those headlights in the autumn night I may know that all is safe and he is home. "We walk by faith, and not by sight." And I now live with the reality that, whether I like it or not, my vision has shifted, and I look not to the hint of headlights on the horizon, but rather to a promised dawn of reunion and resurrection. 
Steven C. Warner Associate Director of Campus Ministry Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Masses at Sacred Heart Church Feast of All Saints Thursday VIgil-5:15PM Fr. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. Friday, November 1st -11:30 AM Fr. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C_ 
5:00 PM -Solemn Mass Fr_ John Gerber, C.S.C. 
Sunday, November 3-­
8:00 AM -Fr. George Wisldrchen, C.S-C. 
10:00 AM-Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. 
11:45 AM-Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C_ 
Sign ups for the next N.D-E. through Nov. 4th at 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Tuesday, October 29, 1991 The Observer page 23 

CAlVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER .­
-rnt. rouct. AI<£ ~8'£R ~Elt1 ~ ~lL Q\G\-11, l't.\ BK.K A®O'I'! 
Cf>.L~\N CQAWLS DoWN m CAt{\ 1 t.'lt.N '\1.\IN AN ERQA~D 
MIN 1\-\E G.\JT'O..l 00 'fl 1~001 'IOJ B\.o~IKG 1\\t. 
lbRN ~-n\E Pl\~~lt.l(j 

• 
Stumpy didn't know how he got in this situation, but with the whole town watching, he knew he'd have to play it out. 

BILL WATTERSON
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
RH\~:MBtllU~ Clr COORS't l-IE'S Rilli\ED. 1\t.'S 
'{()\JR DM)'S 8P!)"ffit:l<. l-IE. .!\lSI 1-lf>SN\ &EN 1\81£ \::oR t>.. lt'N ~t.t>..RS. 
\ 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Dr. No." Annenberg Auditorium. 
DOWN 9:15p.m. Film, "The Servant." Annenberg Auditorium. 
1 Type of triangle 2 Card game 3 Exoress an opinion 

LECTURES
4 "On Golden ----" 5 Summer in Scissons 6 Class meeting Tuesday7 Bombarded 8 Prisoner 
9 Coach Parseghian 3:30 pm. Graduate Seminar, "Fluid Skimming and Particle 10 Plant branch 
Entrainment Into a Circular Side Pore," Andreas Acrivos, The 11 Recording-tape Benjamin Levich Institute for Physico-Chemical Hydrodynamics. material 
Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall.
12 Tardy 15 NFL team 

17 Loses hair 3:30 pm. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Fluid 20 School subject Mechanics of Soap Films, Bubbles and Foam," Hassan Aref,
23 Georgia product 

University of California, San Diego. Room 356, Cushing Hall. 
24 Entrance to the ocean (2 wds.) 

27 Best-selling book 4 pm. Life of Mind Lecture Series, " The Life of a Mind That Has 28 Irish dramatist Listened to Its Heart," Sandra Mize. Carroll Auditorium, Saint 
31 Pants part 

Mary's College. 
33 Software error 36 Agreed 37 Element #92 4:30 pm. Biological Science Seminar, "The Mysterious Tale of the 38 French river 
Giant Killer Sperm: Cytoplasmic Incompatibility in Insects." Dr.
39 Works with cattle 

Scott O'Neill, University of Illinois, Urbana. Hoom 283 Auditorium,
40 Farm job 

34 Recede 41 Do hospital work Galvin Life Science Center. 
ACROSS 
35 African antelope 42 Prepared for boxing 1 -trial (1925) 36 Worked at the 43 French legislature 7 Gem resembling a circus 46 Pasture sound 
beetle 40 Insect larvae 49 Made inquiry 
MENU 
13 Writer of "Break-44 Georqe's lyricist 51 French revolutionist fast at Tiffany's" 45 Hermit 54 Prefix for byte 
14 Mr. Mann 47 Common prefix 56 Shrub genus Notre Dame 15 Certain teeth 48 Actress Theda -57 Electric ­16 Paints 50 Lami .1ated rock 59 Prefix: three lB Actor Warner ----51 Statistics measure 
Chicken Romano
19 "My Gal ----" 52 Cabell or Slaughter 
Beef Stew w!Biscuit 
21 The Beehive State 53-Lawn, 22 -majesty Illinois ChiliCheese Macaroni 23 Ziegfeld workers 54 "West Side Story" Broiled Chicken 
25 Surfeit character 26 Explosive 55 Smaller 
Saint Mary's 
27 Baby's footwear 58 Repeating 29 A Kennedy 60 Odd 30 Ocean animal 61 Make invalid Tarragon Chicken 
(2 wds.) 62 Awards 
Beef & Bean Burrito
32 Dual-purpose 63 Ground up by 
Mushroom Omelette
couches rubbing 
Deli Bar 
• • I• o "' I .. "'" I 'io • •. •.,.. •. • ••• '" ., lfl, • io ._ to._ • • <I ' ~ o. ~ '''" • • • "' .. " • • • ~ • 4., • • • • • 
-. Sports 
page 24 Tuesday, October 29, 1991 
Irish win two games, but also lose two defenders 

Jones, Young out vs. AF 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
COLORADO SPRINGS-Notre Dame entered last Saturday's matchup with Air Force with a decided physical advantage, with the Irish offensive line outweighing the Falcon defensive-front five by over forty pounds. 
• Falcon's techniques controversial I page 16 
Physical attributes had little bearing on the game's outcome, however, as Notre Dame escaped with a 28-15 win and returned to South Bend with two injured defensive tackles. 
"We won a football game tonight but lost a team," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
• With quarterback Rob Perez guiding Air Force's wishbone attack through an attacking Irish defense, the Falcons (6-2) rushed for 108 yards in the first quarter. Air Force offensive linemen accompanied the wishbone with low "chop" blocking, a feature that left the Irish (6-1) pondering their future on the defensive front. The first casualty occurred just over four minutes into the game, when junior right tackle Eric Jones went down with an broken ankle and torn liga­ments after a chop block by Air force tight end David Mott. Jones, a stalwart on the Irish defensive line, will be out at least for the rest of the season. The scenario only worsened for Notre Dame's defensive line, which was the most inexperienced Irish unit coming into the season. With Air Force driving in the fourth quarter to the Irish 34 yard-line, sophomore nose tackle Bryant Young suffered the second broken ankle of the night on a block similar to the one used against Jones. "It hurts our morale because we never want to see our buddies go down, especially in a game like this," said senior Troy Ridgley, who replaced Young at nose tackle against Air Force. 
"I could see maybe in the national championship The Observer 1John Rock see FALCONS/page 21 Jerome Bettis rushes for some of his game-high 178 yards against Southern Cal last Saturday. 
Bettis runs wild vs. USC 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
What's amazing is not that fifth-ranked Notre Dame held off Southern Cal 24-20 Saturday afternoon to run its record to 6-1 and win its ninth straight game over the Trojans in this storied series. 
• Freshman come of age I page 19 
What's amazing is what the Irish went through to gain the victory. 
They had to replace two starting defensive linemen, junior Eric Jones and sophomore Bryant Young, out with injuries suffered last weekend against Air Force. Then, sophomore Pete Bereich learned that his grandfather had passed away, and he sat out Saturday's game after missing three days of practice. 
Three true freshmen-Germaine Holden, John Taliaferro and Justin Goheen-stepped into the fray in their place and responded surprisingly well. Goheen, taking over for Bereich, made 12 tackles, and it was his hit that jarred the ball loose from Trojan tailback Deon Strother deep in Irish territory to stall a promising USC drive. 
"It's part of the Notre Dame tradition, that when somebody goes down and changes have to be made, somebody steps up, and the freshmen accepted the challenge," said linebacker Demetrius DuBose. 
"In the first half, we played very well defensively, much better than l anticipated," added Irish coach Lou Holtz. "The second half, though, we had problems with the counter, and they worked us over inside." 
Indeed, after holding USC to only 142 total yards in the first half, the Notre Dame defense yielded 320 yards and 20 points in the second half as the USC offense got untracked. Trojan quarterback Reggie Perry especially loosened up, completing 
14-of-21 second-half passes for 179 yards with a 
see TROJANS/page 19 
Irish women's soccer team goes 3-1 for break 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
Over fall break, the Notre Dame women's soccer team (13-1-2) bounced back from its first defeat with three consecu­tive wins over tough competi­tion despite a couple of key in­juries. 
Notre Dame defeated X a vier, Providence and Louisville, but fell to lOth­ranked Massachusetts over the break. The Irish also moved up to 15th in the most recent lSAA national rankings. 
On Sunday, against MCC ri­val, Xavier, both tri-captain Marianne Giolitto and defensive standout Andrea Kurek saw limited playing time; Giolitto due to a stomach virus and Kurek because of a neck injury. 
However, the Irish overcame were still able to prevail, 2-1, in an extremely physical contest which the two teams combined for 29 fouls. 
"I really hate playing like that, but sometimes you just have to," Notre Dame's leading scorer, Stephanie Porter, said. 
Susie Zilvitis's cross set up Alison Lester's game-winning goal three minutes into the second half. After that Irish goalkeeper, Michelle Lodyga, who had eight saves, took over and preserved the victory for the Irish. 
"Michelle played excellent, and she has now turned the corner," Irish coach Chris 
see SOCCER/ page 20 
Harriers clean up Indiana lntercollegiates 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
October break means a rest for most Notre Dame students, but not for the men's cross country team. The Irish trav­elled to Bloomington for the Indiana Intercollegiates and came away with a big win. 
With junior John Coyle and sophomore Mike McWilliams finishing in the top two spots and the rest of the team not far behind, Notre Dame won the meet just ahead of Purdue and Indiana. 
It was more than just another meet for the Irish. The course is the same one the team will face at the NCAA District meet. 
"It was an excellent opportu­nity to try it (the course) out," said Radkewich. "It's nice to know where everything is." 
Piane was happy to see his team run well at the meet. 
"We went to run on the District course," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. "The victory created positive feel­ings." 
The good feelings were the result of a strong team perfor­mance. Coyle and McWilliams' 1-2 finish was accompanied by freshmen Nate Ruder's seventh­place finish, junior Nick Radkewich's ninth-place finish, and senior Mike Drake's 14th­place finish. In addition, senior Kevin Keegan (16th), junior J.T. Burke (27th), sophomore Shawn Schneider (31st}, and sophomore Hugh Mundy (73rd) all turned in strong perfor­mances for the Irish. 
"The race was a good step­ping stone going into the main part of our season, but the big races are still to come," said McWilliams. 
The team ran well on a hilly course that proved to be quite challenging and without the help of senior captain Pat Kearns and freshmen John Cowan. The Irish pack stayed together through about 3000 meters when Coyle and McWilliams started to move on the leaders. Radkewich and Ruder ran with the winning tandem for a while before slip­ping off the pace. 
Piane was generally pleased with the outcome of the meet. 
"I was very pleased with the performance of John (Coyle) and Mike (McWilliams). They ran very intelligently and tried to pull the group along for as long as they could," said Piane. 
Now that the Irish have com­peted on the District course, their goals for the remainder of the season are clear. 
see XC/ page 18 
Media gets first look at an up-tempo ND hoop squad 
By RENE FERRAN hopefully we'll be disciplined run the whole time, and now (Brooks) Boyer all played some Associate Sports Editor enough that we can keep at­
we're being unleashed." last year, but they're going to tacking. I would rather see an Notre Dame will be a young have to develop to the point 
The media got a peek last up-tempo, aggressive pace as team this season-of the 15 where they will be consistent Friday at the new-look Notre opposed to a slower pace, but at players on the roster, only four performers." Dame men's basketball team. the same time, if the pace is are seniors, and the lone junior A key player that MacLeod 
And it's not flourescent green slow, we're going to play slow is walk-on guard Matt counts on for a consistent sea­uniforms, either. very well." Adamson. The young Irish will son is Ellis. The 6-9 forward 
Under first-year head coach Another difference in the Irish be tested early and often this (16.4 ppg, 10.5 rpg in 17 John MacLeod, the Irish hope to this season will be an almost season, with 16 games against games) has missed parts of the implement a much more up­total abandonment of the zone teams that made the postseason past two season due to aca­tempo style of basketball at the defenses they have relied upon last year. demic problems, but a change Joyce ACC this season. in the past. MacLeod instead "Collectively, I like what (the in majors and a renewed 
"It won't be full-out, up-and­will have them playing freshmen) have done from an hunger in Ellis bode well for the down, reckless basketball," ex­primarily man-to-man. effort standpoint," said Irish.
Elmer Bennett 
plained MacLeod. "What I'm And the Notre Dame players MacLeod. "But to make the Ellis considered turning pro trying to do is take an oppor­have welcomed the changes "One of the reasons I was he­progress here in practice and to after last season, but after a tunity and expand on it, and with open arms. sitant about coming here was compete against some of the top long talk with MacLeod just that is the opportunity to run. "Everybody is really open­that they played primarily a ballclubs in pressure situations after the press conference an­That's a major adjustment for minded about what he has to half-court style offense," added is a different story. nouncing his hiring, he chose to 
our team, but they seem to have say," said senior LaPhonso Ellis. "We're going to need for our stay at Notre Dame. 
Malik Russell, one of five 
an inclination to run. "You can see it in people's freshmen on the Irish roster younger players to develop "He needs to have a big, solid 
"But if the defense shuts us eyes-they want to learn, want this season. "We have a lot of quickly. (Carl) Cozen. the Ross year from beginning to end," down and won't let us run, then to digest information." athletes out here who wanted to brothers (Joe and Jon}, and see HOOPS/ page 20 






