



WEDNESDAY I DECEMBER 11, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 
Warner approves support group for ND homosexuals 

Chris Infante, secretary of HPC, gives out gifts to members of HPC at last night's meeting. HPC members exchanged gifts for Christmas. 

After prolonged discussion, The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
HPC debates Freshman Class Council 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
The flail Prnsidents' Council riPbatf~d the option of allowing dorm rnctors and staffs to amend the present constitution concerning the dorm represen­tative to the Freshman Class Council and passed a resolution conet~rning the proposed re­moval of the washing machines from Washington Hall. 
The first resolution asked for tlw option to choose represen­tatives by a committee com­prised of the dorm rector and various members of the hall rather than by hall election as the constitution presently reads. The bill states that the election process is unfair to large dorms where it is difficult for freshmen know one another well enough to make an in­formed decision as to the best leader. 
Opponents to the resolution cited accountability, asking whether a representative cho­sen by the hall rector would fnel accountable to the rector or to the students he or she reprnsnnts. 
One opponnnt stated, "It is evnry student's right to choose who's going to represent them." 
In return a council member said, "After one month, fresh­men will vote for a friend rather than for a leader." 
the proposal was finally tabled until next semester. 
see HPC I page 8 
new Friends of Lesbians and Gays at 
staff. after an agreement last Edward Manier, NO philosophy 
Warner's main concern, Manier said, is that the new group might bec<?me another Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), an underground support group for homosexual students which has been denied official University recognition at various times over the past several years. 
The group's decision to limit membership to faculty and staff assuaged Warner's concerns. Manier called Warner's concerns "legitimate." 
"The reason the group's first meeting will be open only to faculty/staff is to insure a greater degree of confidentiality and simplicity of dialogue, and to provide a core group of faculty and staff with the op­portunity to develop an organi­zational identity and facilitate self-determination of the group's long-term agenda," ac­cording to a flyer announcing the group's first meeting, scheduled for Dec. 15. 
Another poster refers to the first meeting as a "closed meeting for faculty and staff." 
Manier acknowledged· the possibility that his group would decide to extend its member­ship to students, either with or without a minimum age re­quirement. Should the group decide to implement such an expansion, it might have to contend with a possible with­drawal of support by Warner, said Manier. 
For now. Warner "fully sup­ports the idea," said Manier. "He thinks the presence of such a group on campus fills an ex­tremely important need, so long as it targets faculty and staff." 
"In my 32 years on the ND faculty, my observation of the campus nnvironment is that in its social environment there's inadequate support for both homosexuals and for families and friends of homosexuals," said Manier. "Our support group could make life more meaningful. more hospitable" for relatives and frinnds of ho­mosexuals. 
The new group, which has about five "core organizers" among the faculty, is modelnd after the national organization, Parents and Frinnds of Lesbians and Gays, Inc., a "confidential support group" which has a chapter in the Michiana rngion. The national organization avoids any affiliation with other institutions, such as Notre Dame, said Manier. 


Gorbachev: New union of republics 'pure coup' 

MOSCOW (AP) -Mikhail Gorbachev's aides said Tuesday that the creation of a new commonwealth by three re­publics was a "pure coup d'etat." But they gave conflict­ing signals on whether Gor­bachev would resign in the face of his crumbling authority. 
Their comments reflected high-level uncertainty over the Soviet president's position since Russia, Byelorussia and Ukraine decided Sunday to cre­ate a new commonwealth and declare the Soviet Union dead. 
Aides said Gorbachev was still in control of the Soviet nuclear button. They also said he considered himself president of the entire country, including the three Slavic republics. 
Yet since the failed hard-line coup in August, Gorbachev's central government has been stripped of almost all powers by the republics. Ordinary Soviets have little sympathy, because they blame him for an unprecedented economic slide and dizzying inflation. 
Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin has shut ofT fund­ing to scores of Soviet min­istries, putting Gorbachev in the humiliating position of pre­siding over a power structure that is disintegrating, discrnd­ited and broke. 
Presidential adviser Georgy Shakhnazarov predicted that the resignation of the 60-year­old Soviet leader, who came to power in March 1985, was just around the corner. 
"The situation is developing in a such way that it probably won't be necessary to wait long for it," Shakhnazarov told a 
:.? 
I 

~if)·~~
' ' ' 
•.. 
Mikhail Gorbachev 
conference of young politicians. 
Nevertheless, presidential spokesman Andrei Grachev in­sisted that his boss had no im­mediate plan to step down. 
"The president's position is that at present, and as far as he feels that he has the possibility to exercise substantial political influence ... he'e going to secum for that (struggle) all his efforts, so far as this is in his power," Grachev told a news conference. 
Western leaders have deep expressed concern at the rapid­fire developments in the Soviet Union. CIA chief Hobert Gates, testifying in Congress, said Tuesday the country is "dangerously unstable" and predicted the worst civil disor­der this winter since the Com­munist revolution in 1917. 
And in a Washington speech, the U.S. ambassador to Moscow, Hobert Strauss, said strong opposition to the com­monwealth could bring its downfall. He also said frustra­tion in the Soviet military could lead to another coup, and 
see SOVIETS I page 8 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Students face 
the reality of 



Honor Code 
"It is not an informant system where students are encouraged to 'tell on one another."' 
-The Academic Code of Honor Handbook 
The Honor Code is described in the Hand-Paige Smoron book in easy-to-read, .Asst. Accent step-by-step, no-assembly-___;E;:;;d:;.;i.;.;to;.;.r__ 
required language. But some practical illustrations of the Code in action should make things clearer for the persistently confused: 
The Committee recommends that one should report oneself if one discovers one in wrongdoing. 
"I've finished my blue book, sir, and 1-0h GOD! The GUILT! I thought I could do it, but I hear THE SHRIEKS OF A THOUSAND TORTURED SOULS REVERBERATING IN MY EARS-I knew all of the answers ahead of time. ALL OF THEM-I even made two of them wrong on purpose to fool you. THE SHAME! I COULD DIE! Please don't tell my mom." 
The Committee recommends that students confront suspected sinners orally or in writing to clarify if they are, in fact, cheating. 
Tap. Tap. Taptaptaptaptaptap. "Hey! Hey Nick! What is that, a thesaurus? Is that al­lowed? Is that fair? Do you think that's fair for the other students in the class who have to write this essay based on their own, God­given vocabulary? Do you think that's fair for the T.A.. who must wallow in the mire of your polysyllabic redundancy before assigning you a grade? Do you think that's fair for the editors of the thesaurus, who probably meant the book to be read at Christmastime around a warm fire with plenty of hot cider at hand, and would probably resign if they knew it was being abused in this classroom today? I thought as much. Go, Nick, hang your head in shame, for I know you for the revolting weasel you are." 

The Committee recommends that students discuss any suspected foul play with in­structors or department heads. 
"Father Malloy, I felt I had to come to you because I feel-well, violated. I think that Mike Sullivan, room 516 Dillon Hall, phone number 283-9999, tried to look on my quiz-but I'm not sure. You know, Monk-may I call you Monk?-it's a problem that's haunted me ever since I was in kinder­garten, when Tommy O'Rourke tried to copy my cutting technique. That really upset me. That's a very nice collar, by the way, sir. Anyway, so there I was, in Western Civ, and I had just written in the year the French Revolution started when I noticed out of the corner of my eye Mike Sullivan-from Dillon Hall-was kind of looking my way, and at first I thought it could be because the clock was behind me, but then I looked at his paper, just to check, and there it was: 1787. So, you gonna expel him?" 
Any questions? 
(And just in case:) 
On my honor, I have abided by the Code of Honor and have committed no act of aca­demic dishonesty in writing this column.) 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Production News 
Kristin Lynch Paul Pearson Lisa Bourdon Alicia Reale 
Accent Viewpoint 
Patrick Moran Rich Riley Paige Smoron Graphics Anna Marie Tabor Ann Marie Coronado 
Systems Sports 
Mike Murphy Rene Ferran Pat Barth 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. Wednesday, December 11, 1991 
P'DR!CAIT: 

Mostly sunny to­day. Highs in the middle 40s. Cloudy Thursday with a 70 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City H L Athens 39 32 
Atlanta  64  44  
Berlin  23  09  
Boston  46  38  
Calgary  41  27  
Chicago  49  28  
Oellas-Ft.Worth  68  44  
Denver  48  25  
Honolulu  84  72  
Houston  68  52  
Indianapolis  63  45  
London  41  34  
Los Angeles  68  62  
M lam Beach  76  70  
N-Orleana  68  57  
N-York  so  41  
Paris  36  25  
Phlladephla  so  40  
Rome  43  34  
San Diego  87  61  
San Franclaco  65  47  
Seattle  44  33  
South Bend  45  28  
Tokyo  52  43  
Washington. D.C.  52  44  

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATIONAL 

Peace talks begin with limited results 
•WASHINGTON-Israel and Syria sounded hopeful notes at the opening of Mideast peace talks on Tuesday, but after a three-hour exchange they could agree only to meet another day. Separately, Israeli-Palestinian negotiations hit a quick impasse over Palestinian representation. The heads of the Israeli and joint Palestinian-Jordanian delegations met twice during the day but made no headway over the Palestinians' demand for independent talks with the Israelis. Jordanian negotiator Abdul Salam Majali said the talks involved "no substance whatsoever.""We could not yet reach an agreement," the former health minister said. But he said another attempt would be made Wednesday and that he was optimistic. 

INDIANA 

Flu kee~s thousands out of school 
OF INTEREST 

•All seniors interested in teaching are invited to meet with a representative from the Inner City Teaching Corps. This Chicago organization offers two-year salaried assignments within inner city schools. An information session will be held today in Haggar 304 from 4:15-5:00 
p.m. For more information call the Counseling and Career Development Center at 284-4565. 
•elLA's 
closing Mass will be held today at 5 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 

•A 
Crested Butte ski trip meeting will be held in Rm. 118 Nieuwland at 7 p.m. tonight. If you have any questions, call Woodsy at 277-7089. 


MARKET UPDATE 


475 pupils, and seven staff members, called in sick Monday. In South Bend, about 2,900 students out of 21,000 have missed school in recent days because of the Qu. Individual school corporations decide for themselves whether to remain open. "The state does not have a policy for closing schools," says Lee Chamberlin, a communicable disease consultant to the Board of Health. The only reason to close is having too few students or teachers to make a school day worthwhile, Chamberlin said. Closing schools will not prevent the spread of the disease, she said. "Students still meet at the mall," she said. Doctors warn parents not to administer aspirin to children with the flu. Aspirin has been associated with the onset of Reyes syndrome, a sometimes fatal swelling of the brain that most frequently occurs after a viral illness, such as the flu. 
CAMPUS 

Junior wins SMC speech competition 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-Maria Rosa DeRosa, a Saint Mary's junior from Highland, Ind., was the first-place winner in the Saint Mary's College Department of Communication's oral interpretation competition, held last Sunday. DeRosa's winning effort was a monologue from Tennessee Williams' "The Rose Tattoo." Second place went to senior Julie Romary, and freshman Noha El-Ganzouri finished third. Saint Mary's communication faculty members judged the competition. Sixteen students took part in the event. 

•Hispanic 
American Organization is sponsoring a Posada tonight. It will begin on the steps of the Main Building at 7:30p.m. A reception and celebration will fol­low in the Dillon T.V. Lounge. Students from different ethnic backgrounds will share their Christmas customs and foods. 

•Assistant 
Rector applications for undergraduate residence halls for next year are now available in the Of­fice of Student Affairs, Room 315 Administration Building, through January 31, 1992. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1816: Indiana became the 19th state of the union. 

• 
In 1872: America's first black governor took office as Pinckney Benton Stewart Pinchback became acting governor of Louisiana . 

•In 
1961: A U.S. aircraft carrier carrying Army helicopters arrived in Saigon -the first direct American military support for South Vietnam's battle against Communist guerrillas. 

• 
Ten years ago: The U.N. Security Council chose Javier Perez de Cuellar of Peru to be the fifth secretary-general of the world body. 



The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Planning it all out 
Corey McGuire, a fifth year architecture student, works on a model for his senior thesis. The model is of a proposed club house for a golf club in Oklahoma. 

Glee Club to sing Christmas songs 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Glne Club will present its annual Christmas concert Friday at 8:15 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
The concert will feature a va­riety of seasonal music, ranging from n~ligious pieces and traditional Christmas carols to lighthearted sleighing songs. Thn Notre Dame Brass Ensem­ble also will perform, and a visit from Santa Claus is expected as well. 
Mark Ring, visiting assistant professor of music, will con­duct. A doctoral candidate at the Yale School of Music, Ring holds a master's degree in mu­sic and in choral conducting from Yale and a bachelor's de­gree in organ performance from Union University. 
lie was previously assistant university organist and choir­master at Yale, assistant con­ductor of the Yale Glee Club and Yale Camerata, and director of the Britannia Chamber Singers. 
He also has 10 years of experience in professional church music and is a member of the American Choral Direc­tors Association. 
Tickets are $1 per person, and are available in advance at the information desk in LaFor­tune Student Center. Remaining tickets, if any, will be sold at the door. Ticket proceeds, as well as donations collected during the concert, will be given to a local charity. For ticket in­formation, call 239-8128. 


BE PART OF OUR TEST MARKET!!! 
COME TO LAFORTUNE'S INFORMATION DESK BY DEC. 16TH & AGREE TO BE PART OF OUR TEST MARKET & YOU CAN SAVE WITH 
THE MICDIANA SAVINGS CARD 
AT SUCH LOCATIONS AS: 
BUDGETEER FONDUE PARLOR CHICK FIL-A MARRIOTT HOTEL COACH'S OSCO DRUG STORE DAMON'S RIBS SOCCER HOUSE DOMINO'S PIZZA SPAGHETTI WORKS FANTASTIC SAM'S TCBY 
OR OUR NEW ON-CAMPUS LOCATIONS: 
CLUB FLANNER IRISH GARDENS COUNTRY HARVESTER N.D. VIDEO STORE GORCH GAMES ROOM WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 

L_ 
page 3 


Musical trio to perform concert this Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
A viola, clarinet and piano trio concert will be presented by the University of Notre Dame music department Saturday at 3 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art's Annenberg Auditorium. 
Violist Christine Rutledge, as­sistant professor of music, will be joined by guest clarinetist Hichard Hawkins and pianist Laura Ward, both from the University of Michigan. They will perform music by Mozart. Schumann, Rebecca Clarke, and Max Bruch. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
Rutledge, who joined the Notre Dame faculty this year, is a graduate of the Curtis Insti­tute of Music. She was assis­tant principal violist of the Louisville Orchestra for six years and served as a member of the Kentucky Center Cham­ber Players and Ceruti Chamber Players. 

She has performed at the Blossom Festival and the Taos Chamber Music Festival and was named a fellow of the Aspen Music Festival Orchestra. In 1985 she was the second prizewinner in the Aspen Viola Competition. 
Rutledge has given recitals and master classes at the Inter­lochen Arts Academy and the Oberlin Conservatory, and she recently performed for the "WFPK Live" recital series and the Locust Grove Recital Series, both in Louisville. She cur­rently plays viola for the Notre Dame String Trio. 
Hawkins joined the faculty at the University of Michigan School of Music this year. lie holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and is pursuing a master's degree in music. 
He is the principal second clarinetist with the Flint Sym­phony Orchestra and frequently performs solo and chamber recitals in New York. Houston, and Detroit. lie taught at the Interlochen Arts Camp between 1988 and 1990 a-nd was re­cently inducted into the twenty­member Yamaha Young Per­forming Artists Division. 
Ward has distinguished her­self as one of the country's finest young accompanists. She was on the faculty of the Music Academy of the West's Summer Festival in Santa Barbara, Calif., where she accompanied the Faculty Artists Series and numerous master classes. in addition to recording for Na­tional Public Hadio. 

She is completing her doc­toral work in accompanying at the University of Michigan, where she was recruited by noted accompanist Martin Katz. There she maintains an active schedule, accompanying faculty recitals, playing for the new music ensemble -Contem­porary Directions -and per­forming with the Ann Arbor Symphony. 
She holds a master's degree from the Cincinnati Conserva­tory of Music, where she was a student of Ken Griffiths, and a bachelor's degree from Baylor University. She performs ex­tensively throughout the United States as both a vocal and in­strumental accompanist. 
NO students earn honors at Model U.N. conference 
Special to The Observer 
Four members of the Model United Nations club at Notre Dame won recognition at the recent American Model United Nations Conference in Chicago. 
Sophomore Joe Rogers won the Outstanding Delegate award in the Security Council for his representation of the country of Austria. Junior Rich Kurz. junior Ken Roach and se­nior Michael Faehner won Out­standing Delegate awards for their performances as judges on the International Court of Justice. 
The Outstanding Delegate award is given to students who display an exemplary under­standing of international rela­tions, and demonstrate consid­erable diplomatic decorum. 
Fourteen Notre Dame stu­dents attended the conference, and represented Austria and Zaire in all of the United Na­tions bodies, including the In­ternational Court of Justice and the Security Council. 
The Model United Nations gives students practical experi­ence in international relations. 

If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
STEPHIE G. HO HO HOI DEC 18 IS THE BIG TWO OH 



page4 The Observer Wednesday, December 11 , 199.;1 
U.N. chief blames Iraq for starting war with Iran 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The 
U.N. secretary-general on Tuesday blamed Iraq for start­ing the 1980-88 war with Iran, delivering a decision long sought by Tehran and repre­senting another step in Iran's rehabilitation in the world. 
Some diplomats raised the possibility that Secretary-Gen­eral Javier Perez de Cuellar's finding may have played a role in the release of most of the Western hostages in Lebanon. 
The diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Iran cooperated in getting the hostages released partly in hopes that such a finding would pave the way for winning war reparations from Baghdad. 
More than a million people are thought to have died or been wounded on both sides of the brutal conflict, which saw boys as young as 13 fighting as soldiers and whole villages wiped out by poison gas. 
Perez de Cuellar, in a letter to the U.N. Security Council, made no reference to the hostage sit­uation, and U.N. officials have strenuously denied that assign­ing blame for the war was linked to any other factor. 
But the U.N. chief's letter noted he redoubled his efforts on the war issue on Aug. 14. by sending letters to Iran and Iraq asking them to spell out their views on the cause of the con­flict. 
That was six days after a pro­Iranian Shiite Muslim group released British hostage John McCarthy with a message for Perez de Cuellar asking him to increase efforts to free not only the Western hostages but also Arabs detained by Israel in an enclave it occupies in southern Lebanon. 
Progress in resolving the hostage situation soon picked up, with Israel releasing some of the 300 detainees and kid­nappers in Lebanon freeing a total of 10 Westerners. Israel, in turn, received information on some of seven servicemen miss­ing in Lebanon. 

Tuesday's letter comes a day after he thanked Iran for its help on the hostage releases, along with Syria, Lebanon, the kidnap groups and the Israeli and German governments. 
Perez de Cuellar is still trying to arrange the release of two Germans held by Lebanese kid­nappers, who are seeking free­dom for two convicted terrorists imprisoned in Germany. 
In the letter assigning blame for the Iran-Iraq war, Perez de Cuellar underlined the "illegal use of force and the disregard for the territorial integrity of a (U.N.) member state" as the cause of the conflict. 
"The outstanding event under the violations referred to ... above is the attack of 22 September 1980 against Iran" by Saddam Hussein's army, he said. 
Border skirmishes preceded the invasion, and the Iraqi president claimed that Iran's radical Shiite regime was trying to destabilize his country and the whole Mideast. But the U.N. chief rejected that argument. 
"Even if before the outbreak of the conflict there had been some encroachment by Iran on Iraqi territory, such encroach­ment did not justify Iraq's ag­gression against Iran -which was followed by Iraq's continu­ous occupation of Iranian terri­tory during the conflict ... ," he said. 
Perez de Cuellar reminded the Security Council that he had sent teams of chemical weapons experts to the region who found "chemical weapons had been used against Iranian civilians in an area adjacent to an urban center lacking any protection against that kind of attack." 
That report led the Security Council in August 1988 to con­demn such attacks against Ira­nians, although the council did not name Iraq as the aggressor in that resolution. 
The U.N. chief gave his find­ing Tuesday as part of a report on whether he would recom­mend setting up a commission of inquiry into the causes of the Iran-Iraq war, one of the pos­sible steps he could take under the 1987 Security Council reso­lution that led to a cease-fire. 
He said such a commission would not serve "any useful purpose," adding: "The events of the Iran-Iraq war, which for many years provided the news headlines in the world media, are well known to the interna­tional community." Perez de Cuellar issued the unusually partisan report just three weeks before he retires Dec. 31. 


Japan's troop deployment bill fails 
TOKYO (AP) -Opposition world affairs. The Japanese only opposition group to sup­parties have blocked passage of were strongly criticized for not port the bill. a bill that would allow contributing troops to the allied Both parties want to gain a Japanese troops to serve as forces in the Persian Gulf War. consensus in the upper cham­
U.N. peacekeepers and be sent The Socialists and the Com­ber, having touched off a shov­overseas for the first time since munists contend the bill would ing match two weeks ago when World War II, officials said violate the postwar constitution, they rammed the bill through a Tuesday. which bans the use of force to lower house committee to the 
The stop to any vote this year settle overseas disputes. They anger of opposition members. was a jarring setback for the also worry about a revival of Japanese society so intensely governing Liberal Democratic Japanese militarism. emphasizes harmony that win­Party and Prime Minister Kiichi "I have consistently said this ning by a slim margin is not ac­Miyazawa, whose leadership is bill should not be allowed to ceptable, said Haruhisa Hatori, being questioned after a month pass and vow to stand firm until a Komeito official. in office. Some legislators said it is defeated in Parliament," "Hurrying the bill's passage is a long delay in trying to reach a said Tamako Toguchi, a Social­not desirable if it means consensus on the bill might kill ist lawmaker. damaging its image," Hatori it. Japan's Asian neighbors, said. 
"Unfortunately, I don't think which suffered Japanese ag­Party officials and legislators you'll find anyone praising gression or occupation before acknowledged, however, that if Miyazawa's leadership now," and during World War II, also decision on the bill was delayed said Yuko Kurihara, a member have voiced concerns about the too long, fears about setting off of Parliament in the prime min­bill. a backlash of public opinion ister's party faction. The measure has passed the before the upper house elec­
Miyazawa became prime lower house and is before the tions in July would further minister amid high upper house, where its future is hamper its passage. expectations about his uncertain even though Polls indicate a majority of 
.expertise in international Miyazawa can count on 135 Japanese still oppose sending affairs and ability to exercise votes out of 252 with the sup­troops abroad, for whatever leadership, unlike his port of the Komeito party, the reason. predecessor, Toshiki Kaifu, who was perceived as a puppet of party power brokers. 
President Bush is to visit Tokyo next month, and passage of the troop bill would have 
provided Miyazawa with a re­
Kevin Dobecki of Administrative Computing delivers computers on 

sponse to criticism that Japan
campus yesterday. 

does not pull its weight in 
MEDICAL WARNING: Failure to attend the Rankin






Reduce 
SINCE 1949 
Grat Bl'lndl, Grat S..vlcl, Great Prtca, R.mll MCAT course may be 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS

Reuse 
Mon -Thur E I k hart 11_7 pm 
hazardous to your score. 
lf'!!Ea1•F$I Fri, 1-s pm


Recycle 
22.0 W Marion Sat 10-4pm 439 S. M1chigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUrrAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS

BULLS-PISTON RAFFLE 
100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 
50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL 
4 TICKETS-$1.00 A CHANCE NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 
3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS
OR 7 CHANCES FOR $5.00 
SCIENCE FLASH CARDS
BUY AT INFO. DESK 
MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S & M.D.S 
DEADLINE:FRI. 12/13 SOUTH BEND sponsored by the class of 1993 273-1866 For more info. call the LaFortune Information Desk 



Wednesday, December 11, 1991 The Observer 

page 5 
Buchanan will run for presidency 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) -Con­some isolationistic sphere lis­servative columnist Patrick tening to the siren's call of Buchanan vowed Tuesday to America First. I learned that "take our country back" from a lesson as a young kid fighting misguided President Bush as he the Second World War." launched a challenge for the Republican presidential nomi­Buchanan's announcement nation. came exactly 10 weeks before 
Buchanan blamed Bush for New Hampshire's earliest-in­breaking his word not to raise the-nation primary. New taxes, causing the recession Hampshire is suffering through with taxes and budget deficits its worst recession since the and failing to defend American Depression, and Republicans interests against "the predatory predict Buchanan can get any­traders of Europe and Asia." where from 10 percent to 40 
percent of the vote in the state 
He called for a "new national­that revived Bush's flagging ism where in every negotiation 1988 campaign . ... the American side seeks ad­In advance of Buchanan's an­vantage and victory for the nouncement. a Boston Globe United States." poll published Sunday found 
"He is yesterday and we are one in six New Hampshire Re­tomorrow," Buchanan told a publicans preferred him to crowd of about 200 jammed Bush. The only other GOP chal­into a building lobby across lenger to Bush is former Ku from the state Capitol. Another Klux Klansman David Duke, 100 waited outside as he said of who has decided to bypass New Bush, "He is a globalist and we Hampshire's Feb. 18 primary. are nationalists.... He would put America's wealth and Republican National Commit­power at the service of some tee Chairman Clayton Yeutter vague new world order; we will discounted the threat from put America first." Buchanan, saying, "Pat has an 
Bush shot back during an ap­appeal to a very limited seg­
pearance in Chicago, saying: ment of the Republican con­
"We must not pull back into stituency." 
Priest 
charged in 
paternity suit 
ATLANTA (AP) -A woman seeking child support from a Roman Catholic priest testified Tuesday that he seduced her after she went to him for coun­seling and that their ensuing affair lasted nearly two years. 
But Father Donal Keohane accused Vicki Long of black­mailing him and denied they ever had intercourse. 
Their testimony was offered the first day of the trial. 
Long, whose affair with At­lanta Archbishop Eugene Marino led to his resignation last year, testified that she met Keohane in Columbus in 1983, when she was 19. She said he offered to counsel her about an incident in which she claimed a nun molested her. 
After counseling her for a month, she said, Keohane in­vited her to the rectory, showed her a pornographic videotape and seduced her. 
"It could have been anyone who had reached out to me at that time," Long told the Fulton County Superior Court jury. " ... He thought what he was doing was helping me, and I was desperate." 
Long sued Keohane for child support in 1987, claiming he fathered her daughter, LaDonna Michelle, now 5. 
Keohane, who now lives in California, denied having sexual intercourse with Long. 
"It was fooling around, touching and that sort of thing -touching and kissing and touching bodies. There was never full intercourse in the real technical sense," the priest said. 
The priest accused Long of leading him on. ''I'm not made of steel," he said, wiping his eyes with a handkerchief. "It was blackmail. Looking back, I see it was all planned. It was harassment in the most terrible way, all these 8 1/2 years." 
Keohane said Long exploited his generosity. 
"I've always helped people," Keohane said. "I live very sparsely and very simply. She turned my generosity in helping her, she turned that around and blamed me for my charity." 

-~­

------------------------~-­
page 6 The Observer 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, DEC. 5 
6:20 p.m. An off campus student reported larceny from his car which was parked in the C-1 student parking lot. 
6:45 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
11 :52 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by a Notre Dame S~;~curity officer for driving 51 MPH in a 30 MPH zon~;~. 
FRIDAY, DEC. 6 
12:35 a.m. An O'Hara-Grace resident report~;~d the theft of her unattended suit from the basement lounge in the Law Building. 
2:31 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer reported damage to a men's restroom jn Cushing Hall. 
4:53 a.m. A St. Ed's resident reported vandalism to a vending machine1on the first floor of the dormitory. 
8:00 a.m. A University employee was injured when a reckless Pangborn resident hit her while riding his bicycle. 
10:53 a.m. A University employee reported larceny from his vehicl~;~ which was parked in Red Reid. 
11:45 a.m. Notre Dame Security and the Notre Dame Fire Department extinguished a small fire in the international Student Lounge at Lafortune Student Center. 

2:19 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident dis· covered the theft of cash from her purse which she had lost in the 0·6 parking lot 
7:08 p;m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag from South Dining Hall. 7:25p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bike from outside his dormitory. 10 p.m. A Three Rivers, Michigan resident reported the theft of several Items from his . locked vehicle which was parked In the Red East parking lot. 
11 :26 p.m. Notre Dame Se.curity transported an injured University employee to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
11:55 p.m. The Notre Dame Fire De­partment responded to a false fire alarm at Fisher Hall. 
11:58 p.m. A Mis~awaka resident was treated by the Notre Da(lle Fire Department for chest pains. A Notre Dame Security officer assisted .in transporting her to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
SATURDAY, DEC. 7 
3:53 a.m. A Canfield, Ohio resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security officer for driving 55 MPH In a 30 MPH :~:one. 4:24a.m. A South Bend resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security officer for driving 46 MPH In a 30 MPH zone. 
she lost her student ID and her detex. 
3:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an injured Flanner Hall resident from the JACC to the St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
5:13 p.m. Two Howard residents reported that a white male exposed himself to them on St. Mary's Road. 
7:20 p.m. A Stanford Hal! resident re­ported the vandalism of a window in the dormitory. 8:So p.m. A South Send resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security officer lor driving 55 MPH in a 30 MPH zone. 
10:55 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department treated an injured Cavanaugh reside!'!! and transported him from the JACC to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
10:59 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an injured Dillon Hall resident from the Rockne Memorial Sui!ding to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
SUNDAY, DEC. 8 

~12:11 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a false lire alarm at Flanner Hall. 
1:20 p.m. A Grace. Hall resident reported the theft ol his unattended cardboard reindeer from a hallway in the dormitory. 
2:42 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an Injured Morrissey resident to 

10:30 a.m. A P.W. residant reported that . St. Joseph's HospitaL 
Court overturns law on criminals' profits 
WASHINGTON (AP) ~ The interest in compensating vic­Supreme Court on Tuesday tims from th.e fruits of the shackled government efforts to crime, but little if any interest keep criminals from profiting in limiting such compensation from books or movies describ­to the proceeds of the wrong­ing their misdeeds. doer's speech about the crime," 
The justices, by an 8-0 vote, she said. struck down New York's "Son of Sam" law. enacted in 1977 in Most states and the federal outrage over reported book of­government have enacted laws fers to a notorious serial killer. that use New York's as a model. The law allowed authorities to The high court ruling cast seize profits from any such doubt on their validity but did ventures and give them to not strike them down. crime victims. 
O'Connor said it might be 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, possible to "narrowly tailor" a writing for. the court, said the law that seizes profits criminals New York law violated free­make from published works. speech rights because it singled She said the New York law out profits from expressive was too broad because it cov­works. ered even tangential mention of 
"The state has a compelling a crime and because its defini­

CJ{9USPJvl91.5 S.9L£/E 
JACC VARSITY SHOP 
JACC FIELDHOUSE Enter Gate 3 
SALE RUNS TBRU DEC. 2Ist 
Weekdays 3-6 pm Sat 9-3 pm Closed Sundays Sale on our re ular hi h ualit merchandise 
A celebration of Mary and Joseph.'s journey to Bethlehem 
Tt.m.: 7:351 P.n. •• l&ant.IMJ pow wU1 ,_ Ia jfOII.t of tr.. no.... 
F~ ~ ...t Cclcfi...UO. nswptt.on. Ia DiUon.'s 
T.V. f.ovtMJa. Ha-c ltu4en.&s fr-om .U.ffBI'sn.t Rfm-k ~ancLs wUl sflac-e did.~-c&.-ktmas ~atoms an4 foo4e. Jut.n us as -~tfae un-Wut of Chl-t.atmaa. 
tion of a criminal included any­one who admitted to a crime even if never accused or con­victed. 
O'Connor said the law could be invoked against someone such as Jesse Jackson because he was arrested for trying to integrate segregated lunch counters in the South. 
She said the list of targets might even include someone such as St. Augustine, who con­fessed to "carnal corruptions" and stealing pears. 
Tuesday's ruling in no way prevents states from relying on broad forfeiture laws that let officials confiscate the assets of criminals -regardless of where the money or property 
-~--­
Wednesday, December 11, 1991 




Smith takes stand; says 'I'm innocent' 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) ~ A tense William Kennedy Smith took the stand Tuesday and painted his accuser as a sexually voracious woman who seduced him into sex twice in a half hour. then cried rape for reasons he can't explain. 
The prosecutor asked Smith sarcastically: "What are you, some kind of sex machine here?" An objection blocked the answer. 
"The issue here is I'm inno­cent!" Smith exclaimed as he fended off repeated suggestions by Assistant State Attorney Moira Lasch that his story was unbelievable. 
Repeatedly she challenged his assertion that the woman was the sexual aggressor in an Easter weekend encounter that began at a nightclub. 
"What are you saying, that she raped you, Mr. Smith?" the prosecutor snapped. 
"Absolutely not!" said-Smith. 
The 31-year-old defendant was pale and nervous as he took the stand but gained con­fidence during questioning by his attorney, Roy Black. 
In 4 1/2 hours on the stand, Smith gave a calm, step-by-step account that contradicted many points in the woman's testimony last week. 




MANDATORY 
Where the Perty Sterts 
Be Prepared to Be Impressed 
TUES: $3 end $5 specials WED: Penny Night THURS: 75 cent speci el s FR I: Contest Night -prizes SAT: $3 end $5 specials 
st.dlurn 
0 
Q JACC 
0 


... AND WE'LL ~CLEAN THE FLOOR! 
., . 

'---------~--~ <>
.. 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
.......,~ 

·~ ·..:.. '":.. 

~-~~ ~--"'­
-~~ ---.-~
~.-:l;._'_'.


~\~-·. 
·.·.... ·. _····-. ·-_: ·.-.·.·.

~~-'-·.·_·.:_."····&~:.·· · ·.._'
....... ... 
.  .  
~  . .  
-~-:t  ..  - 
-t-r.  . .  .  

CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES. 
U you're a freshman or sophomore with 
good grades, apply now for a three-year or 
two-year scholarship. From Anny ROTC. 
Anny ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most books and fees, plus $100 perschool month. They also pay off with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. 
i 

ARMY ROTC 
TIE SMUTEST COllEGE COIIISE YOU CD TilE. 

Contact Captain Selling 239-6264 for more infonnation 

The Observer page 7 
Closing up shop 
Students will have to go elsewhere to buy ice cream and other sweets because LaFortune's basement 
shop, Fudge 'N Things, is closing. 


Yugoslav troops leave Croatian capital 
Christmas 
at the 


Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
GREAT GIFI' IDEAS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF 
SHIRTS SWEATERS JACKETS UMBRELLAS CAPS BALLS Featuring Notre Dame logos 
Students & Staff Enjoy a 10% discount through December 20 

Holiday Hours 
Monday ·Friday 9:00am . 4:00pm 
SMC 




SILENCE OF THE LAMBS TONIGHT 
8 & lOp.m. Carroll $1 
Wednesday, December 11, 1991 

Activist's son claims Nobel Peace Prize 
ZAGHEB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­The Yugoslav army on Thesday pulled out of Zagreb, the Croat­ian capital, and the warring sides in the country's civil strife exchanged hundreds of prison­er~ of war. 
But fighting continued in other parts of the separatist republic. 
Tuesday's pullouts were from a technical school and aircraft repair facility. About 300 vehi­cles left, but the number of troops was unknown. 
The withdrawals from Zagreb and other cities were part of an agreement for the Serb­dominated Yugoslav army to evacuate all its bases in non­combat areas of Croatia under a U.N.-sponsored truce agree­ment. 
Several prisoner exchanges, mandated under the U.N. cease-fire signed Nov. 23, went smoothly. 
One was postponed after mines on a road near Karlovac, 30 miles southwest of Zagreb, prevented the Croatian side from transporting six buses of POWs three miles to the south­east. 
Released Croatians Tuesday claimed beatings were com­monplace and sometimes fatal in army captivity. Past inter­views carried by Serbian media have said Serb prisoners were tortured by their Croat captors. It has been impossible to inde­pendently verify any of the claims. 
The shelling of the Croat stronghold of Osijek continued into the evening, and defense officials said one person was killed and seven wounded. 
Otherwise, Croatian officials and media Tuesday evening re­ported relative quiet after a day of army artillery barrages and fighting for key targets in the war-scarred republic. 
Osijek, capital of the eastern Slavoni~ region and one of the last major Croat holdouts in the region, has been the focus of Serb attacks since the army and ethnic Serb militants captured Vukovar to the south in mid­November. 
Army artillery also hit Otocac and Gospic inland from Croa­tia's northern Adriatic coast, Croatian officials said. Fighting was reported in central Croatia along the main Zagreb-Bel­grade highway. 
The Belgrade-based news agency Tanjug reported Tues­day that federal army doctors had identified 750 corpses in Vukovar and that an estimated 2,000 had been killed in the three-month battle for the city. 
The fall of Vukovar gave Serbs opposed to staying in an independent Croatia control of a swath of eastern Croatia along the Danube River, and capturing Osijek would strengthen their hold on the re­gion. The Serbs and the army already control more than a third of Croatian territory. 
Croatia's declaration of inde­pendence June 25 led to escalating clashes between Croatian troops and the army and Serb irregulars. 
Croatia's Serb minority was the target of massacres by fas­cist Croats during World War II, and Serbs say they fear a re­currence if Croatia is allowed to secede. Croats were also massacred by Serbs in the war. 
Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, in a speech marking the 50th anniversary of his re­public's uprising against the German occupation, appealed Tuesday to Serbs to revive the struggle against fascism. 
Serbian media regularly call the present Croatian govern­ment fascist, and Milosevic, in his broadcast comments, said "the specter of fascism is un­fortunately knocking on our door." 
At a news conference in Za­greb, Croatians newly released from army prisons alleged hor­rifying treatment. 
"People were beaten to death," said Dr. Jure Njavro, a physician at Vukovar hospital, who said he and others from Vukovar were taken to a mili­tary prison in the Serbian town of Sremska Mitrovica after Vukovar fell Nov. 18. 
Njavro estimated that more than 500 people remained at Sremska Mitrovica. 
Tanjug reported that a federal army pilot, Dragasa Stojcinovic, was "subjected to psychological and physical torture" by the Croats before being freed in Zagreb on Thesday. 
At Bosanski Samac, a town on the border with Croatia, more than 600 Croatians who were exchanged for 123 federal soldiers and Serb civilians wolfed down chunks of bread and bologna after their release. 
OSLO, Norway (AP) -The oldest son of pro-democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi ac­cepted the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for his detained mother Tuesday, calling it a reminder of thtl struggle for human rights in Burma and nlsewhere. 
"She would say this prize be­longs not to her, but to all those men, women and children who, even as I speak, continue to sacrifice their well-being. their freedom and their lives in pursuit of a democratic Burma." said Alexander Aris, Suu Kyi's 18-year-old son. 
In Hangoon, the Burmese capital. hundreds of students staged one of thn most signifi­cant anti-government protest since the military junta crushed thn pro-democracy movement lnd by Suu Kyi in 1988. Chants of "Helease Aung San Suu Kyi!" and "Down with dictatorship!" rang across Hangoon Univer­sity. 
Alexander Aris said he ac­cepted the Nobel prize for his mother "in the name of all the people of Burma." He was joined at the ceremony at Oslo City Hall by his brother, Kim. 
14. and their British father, Miehael Aris, 
His mother eould not accept tlw $1 million prize in person because Burma's military junta said it would not allow her to return if she left the cnuntry. Suu Kyi, 46, has been under house arrest since July 1989, and hnr family has not seen her for two years. 
The six other 1991 Nobel lau­flllttes received their prizes in Stockholm. Sweden, where they were honored for their contri­butions in science and litera­ture. They were: Nadine Gordimer of South Africa, lit­erature; Pierre-Gilles de Gennes of France, physics; Richard Ernst of Switzerland, chemistry; Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann of Germany, medicine; and Ronald Coase, a Briton who lives in the United States, economics. 

Suu Kyi, daughter of Burmese independence hero Aung San, swept to political prominence after she returned to Burma in 1988 from 20 years abroad. The junta refused to honor her party's overwhelming victory in May 1990 elections. 
She is kept isolated. and Burma's generals did not allow her to comment on the award. 
"We must also remember the lonely struggle taking place in a heavily guarded compound in Hangoon is part of a much larger struggle worldwide for the emancipation of the human spirit from political tyranny and psychological subjection," Alexander Aris said. 
The elegantly clad guests at the Peace Prize ceremony protested against the regime by wearing bright yellow buttons that said "Free Suu, Free Burma." 
Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize for insisting on non-vio­lence in Burma's struggle for democracy and human rights. 
In his awards speech, Nobel Committee Chairman Francis Sejersted encouraged others to follow her example. 
"Show humility and fearless-· ness. like Aung San Suu Kyi. The result may be a better world," he said. 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1991 
Soviets 
continued from page 1 
voiced worry over control of the Soviet arsenal of 30,000 nuclear weapons as Moscow's central command is thrown into question. 
Gennady Burbulis, Yeltsin's top deputy, skirted the question Tuesday of whether Gorbachev is still commander-in-chief of the Soviet armed forces. 
"I think we will resolve that issue in the next few days," he said. 
But Shakhnazarov and Grachev said Gorbachev still commands the country's vast nuclear arsenal. 
The Byelorussian and Ukrainian parliaments on Tuesday ratified the common­wealth treaty reached Dec. 8 in Minsk, the Byelorussian capital. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
Another proposal, introduced by Jason Coyle and Greg Butrus and passed unanimously, calls upon the university to "delay the removal of the Washington Hall laundry machines for a pe­riod of one semester to allow for a fair assessment of the demand for the aforementioned machines." 
Butrus and Coyle cited the lack of consultation of students before the decision to remove the machines as a major con­cern. "If they had gotten stu-

Ukrainian lawmakers added amendments emphasizing that their republic is fully indepen­dent and will create its own army. That army will be under the commonwealth's military structure only until the nuclear weapons based in Ukraine are eliminated. 
Shakhnazaro~ Gorbachev~ 
political adviser, told the young political leaders in Moscow that "the Minsk agreement of the three Slavic states is a pure coup d'etat, as it eliminates a state which can be abolished only by a Congress of People's Deputies of the U.S.S.R.," the Tass news agency reported. 
Gorbachev has urged that the 2,250-member Congress meet to consider the commonwealth agreement. He contended Mon­day that the union cannot be dissolved by just three of its 12 republics, and that the Slavic pact should be submitted to a 
dent input, they would have seen that there is still a call for the machines," said Butrus. 
He also said that seniors and juniors who are moving off campus next year especially want the machines to remain because they do not want to go through the hassle of sewing name tags on their clothes for only one semester's worth of the Saint Michael's laundry ser­vice. 
He added that even those people who will use the service deserve an option to wash some items themselves. 
In other business, the council decided to run the Weekend Wheels program for the first 
~~~~---------------------­
.M.B.A ·J.D.· ·M.D.· PH.D. 
IF You DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS 
• ' 
YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
EDUCAliDMAL GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 



ND Boxing Club 
Informational Meeting For The 1992 Bengal Mission Bout · All interested students are invited. Wednesday, Dec. 11th, 7:00pm 
national referendum. 
Russian leaders struck back Tuesday, saying the Congress no longer exists l:Jecause it transferred its authority to the smaller Supreme Soviet legisla­ture after the August coup. 
"The existence of independent states on the territory of the former union has become an objective fact ­a reality that can no longer be ignored," said Burbulis. 
Russian officials, speaking at a news conference, raised the possibility that Gorbachev could have a job in the com­monwealth, which may be joined by other republics. 
"I personally think that Pres­ident Gorbachev, having con­siderable political experience and being a person who was ir­replaceable at a certain stage of our reforms, can be a con­structive participant," Burbulis said. 
two weekends of next semester before examining the results of the service and voting on its continuation next semester. 
The Sophomore Sibs weekend will be held April 3-5. Events planned include: an ice cream social, a picnic with the varsity athletes, cheerleaders, and leprechaun, a semi-formal with Lou Holtz and entertainment by the Shenanigans, and mass at the grotto. 
The council also passed reso­lutions previously passed by the Student Senate concerning the levying of fines for infractions of hall rules and on-campus se­curity. 

His merchandise is all environmentally correct 
PORTLAND, Maine (AP) ­Entrepreneur Dan Bernard can sell you a non-polluting sports car, a planet-friendly yo-yo and dozens of other diverse items, all certified as ·environmentally correct. 
His inventory includes recy­clable batteries, a humane mousetrap and a "safe Styro­foam" coffee cup made of porcelain. 
A year and a half after start­ing his business in Lewiston, the 33-year-old says he is weathering the recession -do­ing well by doing good. 
"We want to increase aware­ness of the environment and stimulate people's thinking," he says. "We try to offer practical solutions and, at the same time. to be a little whimsical." 
As the environmental move­ment wins converts, a growing number of businesses such as Bernard's Signs & Symbols have reaped the marketing benefits of "going green." 
While there are no exact fig­ures on the size and scope of environmentally oriented busi­nesses, those close to the mar­ket say it has grown exponen­tially in the last year and a half. 
"It started on Earth Day '90, and since then there has been a greening of the marketplace,.. says Nora Goldstein, executive editor of In Business magazine. 
During that period, the num­ber of retail operations similar to Bernard's ballooned from about a half-dozen to more than 100, Goldstein said. 
"It's a definite niche-type success story," she said. 
Bernard's big-ticket item is the Destiny 2000, the electric sports car featured in the movie "Naked Gun 2 1/2." The battery-powered two-seater, augmented by solar panels to power the accessories, is manu­factured in California and sells 
· for $28,500. "We haven't sold any yet, but when we do it will be exciting," Bernard said. "But even if we inspire people to just think about it, that's good, too." His lower-priced wares in­clude 49 cent coloring books made of recycled paper, a $2.55 cardboard ballpoint pen crafted of recycled paper and a $2.80 yo-yo of recycled plastic. Other products made of recy­cled plastic include fly swatters, Frisbee-like "New Age Saucers" and a bench suitable for backyard use. There also are various writing materials made of recycled paper. The catalog features a hu­mane mousetrap designed to snare an errant rodent without hurting it. When the "freedom door," is opened, the mouse can be set loose in fields or woods. While the concepts behind the products are serious enough, Bernard sometimes injects a note of whimsy. 


OUR WORKSTATIONS HELP YOU MASTER 
MRYTHING FROM MATH TO SCIENCE TO MUSIC. 
BUT COME FEBRUARY, OUR DISCOUNT 
WILL BE HISTORY. 
NeXTstationNcomputers are extremely fast and r:ThVerful workstations. But you'll 
have to be fast yourse~ to take advantage of our special holiday savings, recause they 
end January 31st. 

Even without savings, the price/performance of these workstations is unequaled anywhere in the industry. They offer features like an easy-to-use graphical interface, 8MB of RAM, enormous disk storage, astandard UN I~ operating system, true multi­tasking, and a15MIPS CPU. They also have buitt-in Ethernet networking, alarge 


monitor with true display PostScript~ and abuilt-in DSP chip for CO-quality sound. 
They're ideally suited to every kind of academic work-from computation-intensive math and science projects to report writing, complicated research, in depth analysis-and yes, even composing music. 
That's partly because the best versions of many industry­leading software products are the ones written for NeXTstations. These products include WordPerfect~ Adobe Illustrator~ Lotus® lmprov;· Soft PC~ and agreat many more. Mathematica~ the 
acclaimed numeric-processing software, is even included free. Given all this, about the only way we could improve the price/performance of aNeXTstation is to make the price lower. Which is just what these ~ spe;:OISil'iings do. 
I'» 



~~,~;3;!;f;~:::::~::~~,::,~
Ml otllrr trndrma,/,• NlrNtiDHnl bdo•tto '~"' m(>«ti<.v or•m. ,,~ 
All Next Computers are sold at the University Computer Store Room 112 Math & Computing Bldg. 
-------------------------·-·-----------------­
---l 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 11, 1991 Page 9 
Ihe___Q_bse_~~er-­
----L-=Y~ --­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ••••.•••••..•.••.••....Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•••.... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••••••••••.David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .....•.•...•..•••... John O'Brien Systems Manager •••.•........... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ....•.••••.Andrew McCloskey OTS Director •........•••••.•..... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ....•.••.••.Emily Willen Controller ..•.•.••.••••........ Thomas Thomas 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

BCAF refutes criticisms about Peralez incident 
Dear Editor: 
As the officers of the Black Cultural Arts Festival at the University of Notre Dame, we fePI that it is necessary for us to address the very misleading and blatantly incorrect articles by Diane Stephen, printed in the South Bend Tribune on Sunday, December 1, 1991, and .John Paul Kimes, printHd in The Observnr on Dec. 9, 1991, mgarding Paul Peralez. 
First of all. the Black Cultural Arts Festival (BCAF) is an or­ganization, not an event. The twent in question was an annual variety show. "Black Images," that is sponsored by the BCAF. Sncondly, the show was on Sat­urday, Nov. 23, not Friday, Nov. 22 as was stated. In .John Paul Kimes article, he states that "this festival was held to cele­brate African and African­Ameriean arts and cultural di­versity." For one who did not attend "Black Images," and does not know the difference bntween an event and an orga­
-nization. we are appalled that he would have the audacity to comment on subjects of which he is obviously ignorant. The failure of Diane Stephen, Tribune staff writer, to contact the officers of the BCAF, even after being given our names, shows blatant irresponsibility on her part. It seems only logi­cal that we would be best equipped to discuss any dis­crepancies that might arise from our produetion. If she had only taken the time to check the faets, (which by the way is her job as a reporter), Mr. Kimes and countless others would not have been misled by her unsub­stantiated information. Furthermore, Ms. Stephen misquoted Notre Dame Director of Minority Affairs, Iris Outlaw, 

by stating that she agreed with Paul's description of the show, when in truth she firmly negated any mention of Paul Peralez having oral sex with another man in the skit. Moreover, we do not appreciate that during a time when the black community at Notre Dame is attempting to reach out to the South Bend community, that its own newspaper, the South Bend Tribune, would print such a false and degrad­ing article about our organiza­tion. 
Mr. Peralez's sexual prefer­ence is neither our concern, nor the issue. During the skit, it was never portrayed, nor was it ever implied, that he had any type of sex with another man. Not only has he insulted the intelligence of all of the African-American students here at Notre Dame, but a great deal of other stu­dents and faculty as well. 
When people such as Paul choose to openly voice their 'opinions,' no matter how in­valid, they knowingly place themselves in a dangerous po­sition. Seeing that he himself stated that things "...may of­fend people, but this is a uni­versity. We can handle it", it seems as though he should be willing and able to 'handle' ridicule when he is the re­cipient. As Paul used his First Amendment rights to offend hundreds of African-American students by referring to them as "poor little Negroes," the students involved in the skit also exercised their First Amendment rights stating their opinions concerning Mr. Peralez. As the old adage states, "If you can't stand the heat, stay out of the kitchen." 
As the officers of the BCAF. we do not apologize for any­thing that was said in the 
... 50Tl£N 

7H& POST JUST 1</UWMY 
IGOTfH 01!3A5T&R~ 

Pltc6! IT'S"!!<Rb5ftJNS/Bte"! 
7H&~-YOU/AJtWT 

7W''5PealtATIVP"! I 01/?N7 
a:N5TAT& f)!SASn;R? 

PR/JV/3 ACTUAL--[)RUG U513, 
50 IT'5"1RR!iU3VANT"!
mRJ<IAJIIY.' 
{)/SA~! ~ 
\
I 

aforementioned skit, or in the show as a whole. Our only re­gret is that Paul felt that he was the highlight of "Black Images," when in fact, he was merely two minutes of a fifteen minute skit in a 180-minute production. Contrary to what was stated by Paul in the Tribune, he was not "jostled" by the crowd as he left. People merely laughed and said goodbye to him. We are not responsible for, nor are we aware of any death threats that he may have received. In fact, we couldn't eare less about any loneliness or isolation that Mr. Peralez may have incurred as a result of his ill-founded writ­ings. 
Fortunately, we as African­American students did not adopt the stereotypical, ag­gressive, ignorant, violent means in dealing with the in­flammatory and libelous state­ments made by Paul in the campus dish rag, The Observer. Rather, we acted in a manner which befits our regal ancestry. 
If we were to write that all white people have four legs and a long, waggling tail, I doubt that any respectable periodical or even The Observer would print it. Yet such fiction and nonsense was printed by The Observer on a frequent basis. 
According to Kelley Tuthill (Observer Editor-in-Chief), The Observer's policy is to run "any letter unless it is blatantly false, unsigned or libelous." Obvi­ously the Observer felt that there was some truth to Paul's statements that "blacks at NO, like blacks in the old South, cherish the pleasure of sleeping with whites" and that black students at Notre Dame are in­tellectually inferior to white students and are only here to fill quotas. 
Furthermore, we find it dis­

QUAY/b'S GOTHIMSlflf 
turbing that Ms. Tuthill decided to print on the editorial page of the Observer: "If homosexuality were the normal way, God would have created Adam and Bruce," as a "Quote of the Day," yet felt that the quote: "If every man accepted the first 'no' he took from a woman, Cain and Abel would never have been born," was unfit for publi­cation because it suggests that rape is acceptable. It is evident that both quotes could be considered offensive. 
However, the fact that Ms. Tuthill is a white, heterosexual female clearly influenced her decision not to print the quote that alluded to rape being acceptable. For if she were gay or Black,we doubt very seri­ously that she would have allowed the quote on ho­mosexuality or some of Paul Peralez's material to be printed. 
In his article, Mr. Kimes re­peatedly makes reference to the fact "that your (our) tuition money ... paid for the meaning­less slaughter of one of our own fellow students." The defamation of Paul's character is not fact, but subject to opin­ion, because many, such as Di­rector of Minority Affairs, Iris Outlaw, found the skit tasteful and not offensive. Let us also remember that our tuition money also paid for Paul's countless letters printed in the Observer defaming the charac­ter of the entire African-Ameri­can community. 
It is difficult for us to believe that an individual such as'Paul would leave the University be­cause of this skit. In fact, it has not yet been proven that Paul has officially withdrawn from Notre Dame. That is a gift that Santa himself could not provide. Even more unbelievable is that Paul came to "Black Images" 
considering his feelings about 
the blaek students on campus. 
How could Paul find a pro­duction given by "intellectually inferior Black students at Notre Dame" entertaining or en­lightening given his self-pro­claimed intellectual superiority? 
In addition, it is extremely hypoeritical of Paul to attack Students United For Hespect (SUFR) "for such an absurd platform," when he, according to the article featured in the Tribune, "wonders what free speech and the campus discrim­inatory harassment poliey are all about." Paul must have for­gotten that part of this "absurd platform" is the speedy adop­tion of an effective campus dis­criminatory harassment policy that he now looks to for sup­port. 
As the officers of the BCAF we wish to reiterate our extreme disappointment in these newspapers and our disgust with Paul Peralez. In our eyes they have done nothing but ma­liciously malign a reputable or­ganization with the ideas of one who has solely discredited him­self during his years here at Notre Dame. If the Tribune and The Observer wish to become respectable community news­papers, it would be in their best interest to contact all involved parties -get the facts, check their sources -get the facts straight, and when writing about the BCAF-Get the facts straight-from us. 
Tlsh Powell 
BCAF Co-President 
James Suttle 
BCAF Co-President 
Thomas Steele 
Black Images Coordinator 
Yvette Davison 
BCAF Treasurer 
Dec.9,1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~&NfiUR.Aa<s! 7}£ 

HI. 50M& HliUO'r IS 
'It seems strange that I might
FD5TNOlA/ THINKS Ht'S 
HI, GUY 7D MY OR/Vf/?. 
6RO/AIII IN 7HI3 JOB/liA5 
RIO<. 583'tt:JU. INTHBR&? 
TH& /AJI-Iaf3. tuCJI?tl) 
60N13MAV? 

~ 
be asked to a Pangborn dance.' 
A male student in the dining hall 

Dum-de dum-de doodly-doo, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
~--~ --~ ~ -------~----­
Viewpoint
Page 10 Wednesday, December 11 , 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Native Americans endure a legacy of oppression 
Dear Editor: government was anxious to se­
As Native Americans we cure new lands for the continu­would like to clearly state for ally demanding settlers, but be­the record that we are in com­cause they had just ended one plete disagreement with the ar­war they had neither the energy ticle written by Mona Holland nor the resources to start an­printed on November 26. We other. Indian tribes also main­are offended and alarmed that tained their integrity and power she not only completely devi­and the U.S. had no other al­ated from the truth, but also ternative, but to treat them as stated that many Native Ameri­the sovereign nations that they cans would agree with her. were and still are today. 
While we can not speak for all Even though the tribes Native Americans, we do not possessed some bargaining know of any who would be so power, the treaty-making foolish as to agree with her. It process put them at a is precisely because of people disadvantage. Since the like her that Native Americans treaties were written in English today continue to be misunder­and not accurately explained, 
sary and in order to gain the lotted interest which substan­mately 50 million Native Ameri­stood and misrepresented. The the tribes often did not know land that they wanted, they re­tially reduced their value. Plus cans have been killed by war,following information consists what they were signing. Add to sorted to genocide. All of our the government was permitted starvation and European dis­of documentable facts which we that the fact that land treaties were broken, the rea­to offset previous payments to eases. We are the survivors ofhope that people will remember ownership and governmental son that no documentable evi­the tribe which resulted in some the greatest holocaust in his­as the truth and subsequently relations were often wholly for­dence exists is because the fed­tribes actually being forced to tory.
denounce the misleading infor­eign to the tribal cultures and eral government has issued pay the U.S. government. Most Today we are still sufferingmation that Mona Holland has you have a definitely unfair sit­propaganda instead of the truth importantly, the tribes were not the effects of this brutaltried to pass off as fact. uation. 
so that no one will question allowed to regain their wrong­treatment. We have the highest Mona Holland wrote that only To make matters worse the their tactics. fully taken lands which are the rates of teen suicide and alco­a handful of treaties were bro­federal government often While the passage of the In­·basis for our existence. holism in the nation. As manyken and that tribes gained negotiated with members of the dian Claims Commission Act in Money can never replace the as one out of four children aremany advantages from them tribe who had no official status 1946, did provide some com­loss of sacred lands. As far as born with Fetal Alcohol Syn­
which is why so many were within their tribes. As time pensation, it did not substan­Native Americans benefiting drome. Our future remains
made. The real facts behind wore on and the U.S. regained tially correct the injustices of from a tax payer funded uncertain.
treaty making are the following. its power, the federal the past. The settlements were multimillion dollar bonanza, we The U.S. was built by slave
Treaties were originally government decided that 
unfair because they weren't al-can only laugh at her ignorance labor and exploitation of theentered into because the U.S. treaties were no longer neces­
because otherwise we would Native American peoples. To cry. continue to deny these facts 
Today's Native Americans are only contributes to the racism living in desperate poverty, the which continues to hurt our na­Sioux reservation at Pine Ridge tion. Why can't the majority is located in the poorest county accept that the U.S. is guilty of in the U.S. and the Standing human rights violations and in­Rock reservation is in the sec­stead of continuing the injus­ond poorest county. Please visit tice, end it by making retribu­a reservation and see how well tion. we are living. The fact that the The fact that Native federal government is finally Americans are still surviving offering some compensation despite 500 years of oppression should not be attributed to gives us continued hope be­niceness, the federal gov­cause we are still alive and able ernment has never been nice to to refute letters such as Mona us. Holland's. 
The Trail of Tears is not an aberration of history. It was Monica Tsethlikai, John Ro­common practice. The Native darte, Jane Feliz, Kateri Kerwin, American population was re­Kateri Urbanek, Angela Kueck, duced from 5 million to Laverne Yazzie & Mary Etsitty 250,000. Since 1942 approxi-Dec.4,1991 
Dear Editor: hominuem assault upon f'ather ulty and sane administrators of 
Correction Burtchaell? The University of Notre Dame 
I celebrate The Observer's •Where now are our duLac to: In a letter to the editor editorial (Dec. 5, 1991) and "Colleagues" who give rhetori­1) Demand a Faculty Senate published Dec. 9, 1991. it was Professor Manier's remarks in cal support to "care", indeed, inquiry into the sources of this stated that the Black Cultural re: the issues made manifest in "familial concern" (e.g. the despicable "leak". Arts Festival (BCAF) is an the "case" of the Reverend Center of Social Concerns) at 2) Clarify the extent of com­event when it is really an 
organization. The event in

James Tunsted Burtchaell, CSC. this moment of egregious per­plicity by duLac's administra­question was an annual variety Holding, as I do, the informal secution of, to my mind, a dedi­tion in this cabal. 
show, "Black Images". that was

Chair of Pariah-in-Residence at cated priest, scholar and 3) Demand that the resigna­sponsored by the BCAF.
duLac, may I set forth the fol­gentleman? tion of the Reverend James Also, the show was on
lowing queries: My suspicions: Two members Tunsted Burtchaell, CSC, be re­Saturday, Nov. 23, not Friday,•Who "leaked" the rumor-rich (Brothers-in-Christ?) of duLac's jected summarily. 
Nov. 22 as stated. 

charges against Father Theology Department "leaked" "Fascist Liberalism" a just Finally, the author of the Burtchaell to the National a faulted litany of rumor and phrase wisely fashioned by the letter misquoted the South Catholic Reporter ? And there­anonymous, rather belated, British historian Paul Johnson, Bend Tribune writing that one after to the South Bend assertions to a "journal" (NCR) is now upon us if we fail to res­student attending "Black Tribune, inter alia? ever eager to assault those who cue Father Burtchaell from a Images" was "portrayed" as 
•Who, in our administration take issue with their own Hell which only the pusillani­having oral sex when the Tribune really reported that
accepted said charges sans due magisterial pomposities. mous of Dante's vestibule de­
the student in question

process? A largely feckless, yet ever serve. 
claimed he was merely

•Given the left-wing tenden­"caring," administration "accused."
tiousness of the NCR, why was blessed said "leak."A diabolical Prof. James J. Carberry 
The Observer regrets the 

that self-appointed magisterium imprimatur, say I. Chemical Engineering Dept. 
errors.

chosen as the vehicle of ad I call upon the students, fac-Dec. 7,1991 
Burtchaell should be remembered for his contributions, not mistakes 
Dear Editor: freshman year and I remember advised us to choose a major for his weaknesses. I defend person. By focusing on Father 
In the wake of a scandal such a brilliant scholar, engaging not because it would be useful neither Father Burtchaell's ac­Burtchaell's faults and not re­as that surrounding Father lecturer and effective teacher. in finding a job, but because it tions nor the university's inex­membering his many strengths. Burtchaell, everyone is quick to In the three years since, few was what we truly wanted to cusably slow response. Both we risk the same sort of con­point fingers, crack jokes, and other professors have chal­study. Wiser words are seldom must be held responsible. demnation for ourselves in an­levy accusations. The charges lenged me to work so hard or heard. But I do ask the Notre Dame other place and time. It raises against the man are certainly learn as much. It saddens me to think that community to remember that no one to bring another down. grave and should not be taken I also remember an essay Father Burtchaell will be re­every one of us has failings. lightly. written by Father Burtchaell membered at Notre Dame not There is not one of us who has Karen Stohr 
But I took a theology course which was sent to the class of for his vast contribution to the never made a mistake, used Badin Hall from Father Burtchaell 1992 as a freshman. The essay world and this community but poor judgment or hurt another Dec.9,1991 







Accent 
Wednesday, December 11 , 1991 page 11 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 
Take home the gift of laughter. for X-mas 
hh, the grandeur of Christmas. Time to 
nat rotten fruit cakes, argue with your 
siblings and drink egg nog until you 
puke. 

It's the most wonderful time of the year. 
Authors, artists and singers all like to portray· 
thn Christmas season with families sitting 
around, bedecked in warm, fuzzy sweaters, 
drinking hot cocoa and listening to Grandpa 
read " Twas the Night Before Christmas." 
In nmlity, though, Christmas can be one of the 
most insane times of the year. For most of our 
families, Christmas means sitting around 
arguing about who is going to put up the damn 
tree, drinking warm beer and listening to 
obnoxious Unde llenry burp to the tune of "We 
Thn~e Kings." 
So to h1~lp make sense in this, the time of the 
year when most suicides occur, here are some 
thoughts, musings and vignettes to amuse you. 
Well. okay, they're really to amuse me, so if you 
don't like them, buzz off. 
From the home office in LaPaz, (pronounced "La PAZ," not "La POZ") Ind., here are the Top Ten Worst-Selling Christmas Items at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore On The Campus: 
I0) Authentic Leprechaun Toe Jam (regular 
and eeonomy sizes.) 
9) l'angborn llall Urinals. 
8) Freeze-dried Dining Hall Leftovers. 
71 Snsquienntennial Thong Bathing Suits (in several festive colors.) 
6) Healistic Squirrel Clothing (made from on­eampus roadkill.) 
5) "Thn Art of Sensual Massage," by Patricia O'Hara (softcover only.) 41 Animated Diek Rosenthal Doll: Put a dollar 
in it and it works! 31 Thnw words: Monk's Used Undies. 
2) Father Miceli's Own™ Secret Recipe Menthol Hub. 
And the Numb1~r One Worst-Selling Christmas Item at tlw Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore: 
1) "My Theo Professor Went On Leave Of Absence At Princeton University And All He Brought Me Back Was This Cruddy T-Shirt" T­shirts. 
Security Beat 
December 25, 1:37 a.m.-A Lewis resident n;wortnd br,ing touched inappropriately by a man wearing a red suit. The woman told Security that she was awakened by a "jolly old pervert" nibbling on her toes saying, ''I've got a preSilllt for YOU, baby!" When the woman shrieked. the man jumped out the window . 
We have obtained a tape of the Christmas party for the Oflieers of the University. This nxcerpt was reeorded toward the end of the party, after everyone had had a few beers. 
Monk: "Can I have everyone's attention ... " 
Beaur.hamp: "Sit down you big geek!" 
Monk: "I ley, who said that'?" 
O'Meara: "It was Willie! It was Willie!" 
O'llara: "Oh, quint down you tattletale." 
Monk: "I'm trying to find out who was supposnd to invite llickey from Saint Mary's." 
O'Hara: "I nnvnr thought we should invite him. You 'rl~ the only one that likes Srniekers!" llat!:h: "Hey, h£s not get nasty." Schmitz: "Yeah. Bill's got a better idea." Sexton: "I say we go pick up a couple of sixers. 
Any taknrs?" Bmtuchamp: "I say we get a keg and Mason over there pays for it with University money." Mason: "Hey, I got plenty of money-let's get 
some tequila, too." 
Monk: "Later we can play naked basketball!" 
Beauchamp: "Aww-HIGHT!" 
God help us all. Merry Christmas, everyone. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. 
/lis columns appear every third Wednesday in 
Accent. 


ND grad student Carol Stewart hopes to prevent 
The mother of the family Stewart stayed with in Guatemala 
disappearances in Guatemala 
holds a picture of her missing daughter, who was 'disappeared' 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
"These people are in agony, day in and day out. They don't even know if their sons or daughters are dead-they just know they've been 'disappeared."' 
The families of missing Guatemalans are in an emotional limbo. They don't know whether they should hope for the recovery of their loved ones, or to grieve over their probable deaths. 
Carol Stewart, a graduate student at Notre Dame, is travelling to Guatemala in January to hopefully prevent-or at least ease-any further agony. 
Stewart will be working with Peace Brigades International (PBI), a nonviolent organization that works in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Sri Lanka. PBI provides volunteers who accompany people who have been threatened with death or 'disappearance.' 
By her very presence, Stewart may save lives. "International (volunteers) are less likely to be harassed because there would be international repercussions," says Stewart. "But there are no guarantees of safety for anyone.'' 
PBI hopes to 
deter violence ---------------------------"There are awful in Guatemala; "The situation is shocking not just things going on all but if that fails, because it is happening, but over the world. 
at least they You have to just can be because our government supports pick your battles." these governments." -Carol Stewart 

five years earlier. 
witnesses. "We are there to be aware, and to describe," says Stewart. 
The situation in Guatemala is one of violent repression and conflict, according to Stewart. There have been 100,000 confirmed deaths in the past few decades, and 40,000 people are recorded as "missing," greater numbers than in any other Latin American country. 
Stewart says that there is a sense of terror in the country, that at times intensifies. Any attempt to organize or rebel is immediately squelched. "A large number of the people coming to the PBI for help had no idea why their son or their daughter had disappeared," says Stewart. "That really struck me-sometimes the violence was so random." 
Stewart was first confronted with the problems in Guatemala when she travelled there to study Spanish. When she heard of Archbishop Oscar Romero's assassination in El Salvador in 1980, she joined a peace group. But she wasn't ready to commit herself -yet. 
"It was overwhelming," says Stewart. "The situation is shocking not just because it is happening, but because our 
government supports these governments." 
But now, having lived with a family in Guatemala who had experienced the disappearance of a daughter, Stewart is ready for service in PBI. She will spend six months in Guatemala, starting in January. 
But she won't be alone. Stewart explains, "The (PBI) organization is effective not just because of the base in Guatemala, but because backing up these 10 or 12 volunteers is an international network." 
People can get involved with the program even if they can't volunteer in Guatemala. International phone calls and telegrams can be extremely effective in pressuring Guatemalan authorities. says Stewart. 
For more information, it is possible to contact Stewart before January at 232-3330. Participants and donations are vital to maintain PBI. After the new year, inquiries can be directed to Women United for Justice through the Center for Social Concerns. 
For her part, Stewart will make a new year's resolution a reality in Guatemala. "I always knew I'd do something," says Stewart. 

A group of Mayan Indians in Guatemala gathers in 1987 to mourn their missing loved ones. 

Accent

page 12 Wednesday, December 11, 1991 
~ %%?\ 
~ 

::mm::r:::.:W!i'W.I:i::::::L:Ll\i.WB:V%.f4:l.i:::;;;;:..;':l!NMH:t%.fu1:\'1&.:lli'J.%.:%wmm;~
•



eep1ng nard 
It's all part of aday's work for Notre Dame Security's 

By JOHN ROCK 
Assistant Photo Editor 

Sgt. Dan Kavanaugh is waiting to turn right at the stoplight at the corner of Juniper and Dorr Roads. The Notre Dame-Louisville basketball game that's playing on the car radio is barely audible under the squawking police scanner. 
As the light turns green, the conspicuous Chevy Caprice, painted with the colors and markings of the Notre Dame Security Police, turns the corner. A snowball, thrown by one of a group of nearby students, explodes with a thump against the passenger side door of the cruiser. With a sigh of disgust, Kavanaugh keeps going. 
"Notre Dame Security is not here to force the students to grow up," he says, "but the department is here to make it as safe for them as possible to grow up. The students are here to learn more than just things from books, and we just want to keep them safe." 
A Notre Dame Security officer since 1987, Kavanaugh is a graduate of the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy in Plainfield. He lives in South Bend with his wife of seven years and his two sons, ages six and two. 
Every day Kavanaugh arrives at the Security Building for roll call at 3 p.m. At that time he and his fellow officers are briefed on activity during previous shifts that may affect their shift. Then he takes care of miscellaneous paperwork that takes up much of the early hours of his shift. Eventually he hits the road to patrol campus. 
Each day, Kavanaugh heads over to the intersection of Douglas and Old 

Sgt. Dan Kavanaugh 
Juniper Roads, by Notre Dame Credit Union, to direct traffic. Often traffic backs up there due to Support Services employees getting off work, Kavanaugh says. 
"You've got to be sharp, you have to watch that traffic does not back up all the way to the light at Juniper," he says. When that happens, Support Services staff members and people working on the St. Michael's Laundry Building have a hard time getting out, he adds. 
After fifteen minutes of directing traffic, it is back to the cruiser. Almost immediately the radio crackles instructions to report back to the Security Building and get a key to the Stepan Center. 
After answering that call, Kavanaugh receives a call for a jump start in the C-1 lot. Kavanaugh cruise over and looks for the "party," who is supposed to be with her car. He waits for fifteen minutes, listening to the radio, cruising the lot, but saw no one. 
Another call comes in. A resident of Holy Cross house is experiencing breathing difficulties. Kavanaugh radios back making sure Fire Department personnel and an Ambulance were on the way. Despite hitting two stop lights, he is on scene in less than five minutes. 
People are waiting outside the house to bring the rescue crew up to the second floor. The Fire Department arrives at almost the same time and together they and Kavan~ugh set up the logistics for the paramedics to best help the victim. 
"Those guys (the fire department) don't get enough credit," comments Kavanaugh. "They are always at any 
The Observer/John Rock Top: Sgt. Dan Kavanaugh directs traffic at the corner of Douglas and Old Juniper Roads. Above: Kavanaugh asks a Holy Cross House Nurse for information regarding a sick resident who was later taken to the hospital. 
accident and invaluable. It's great for the paramedics to know they are there, because they do a lot of the work and the ambulance crew know they've got good help." 
As the night goes on, a female student working as an intern at WNDU requests an escort to North Dining Hall. "That's a long walk alone and in the dark," he says. "People here are number one. It's our job to keep people safe," he reiterates. 
At 8:30 p.m., a call comes reporting of tripped alarms in the new St. Michael's Laundry Building. Kavanaugh and two officers in another car respond, with the other officers going in the front and Kavanaugh going around back to the loading bays. The two officers in the first car canvass the building and reports no sign of any intruder. 
"You never know what to expect on a call like this," he says. "You have to be prepared for anything and act accordingly, but you always hope it's nothing. That call could have been anything from a coat rack falling and tripping the alarm to a person walking around looking for copper pipes." 
Patrol duty is far from exciting, Kavanaugh says. For some officers it consists of driving around and answering calls, checking the parking lots, driving by the new Fisher Graduate residences, and making . themselves visible. "If criminals know ' that we are around, hopefully that's a big deterrent," he says. 
But Kavanaugh stressed patrol cannot be a routine thing. "You can never set a schedule," he says. Kavanaugh never goes to the same places at the same times during his patrols. "We cannot be predictable, and the good thing is that each officer patrols in different ways. The way I go about things is different than the way the guy before me or the lady after me," he says. 
While going down Notre Dame Avenue, he suddenly turned into Pine Grove Cemetery. "There was someone here recently," he said. He explained there were wet tracks leading into the cemetery. , 
"I'm looking for possible vandalism, but you never know what you will find," he said. 
Finding no one in the cemetery and he drives to the B-2 and D-2 lots. After a slow drive around the lots, a student approaches the car, asking for a jump start. After starting the car, Kavanaugh heads back to the Security Building. 
"I usually go home and read the paper (after work) then I go to sleep," he says. 
Wednesday, December 13, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Lendl advances at Grand Slam Cup 
MUNICH, Germany (;\PJ -ATP championship winner Pete which started from his stomach With Stefan Edberg and Pete Sumpras did not qualify. and worked up," said Ion Sampras already out of the "I had a good first set and he Tiriac, Becker's coach. "And tournament, the withdrawal was a bit sluggish," Connors because he didn't get better Tuesday of Boris Becker from said. "In the second set, things until this afternoon, we thought the Grand Slam Cup was an­began to happen and I missed a it would be fair to announce other blow to the lucrative ten­few. In third set, more things that he is withdrawing from the 
nis competition. began to happen." tournament." 
Meanwhile, the tournament Also, Michael Chang beat Jim Becker refused to participate begun as Ivan Lend! and Patrick Courier, 6-4, 6-2, in a battle in last year in a disagreement McEnroe won first-round between the former and current because of the high amount of matches. But Jimmy Connors French Open winners. Lend! money distributed. The winner was ousted after winning his rolled to a 6-4, 6-1 victory over this year gets $2 million. first set without losing a game. Christiano Caratti and Patrick Becker agreed to play this Then Jakob !Hasek of McEnroe defeated Thierry year and was set for a match Switzerland downed the 39-Champion of France, 4-6, 6-1. Wednesday evening. year-old Connors, 0-6, 6-4, 6 -4. 6-4. "We did not want to wait until 
This is the second consecutive the last moment because he 
Becker became the third top year Becker is missing the didn't have the possibility to player not to play the $6 million tournament which gathers the play to his full capacity and a event. Edberg, the top-ranked top finishers from the four professional manner," Tiriac player in the world, missed it Grand Slam tournaments. said. "He has been in Munich because of tendinitis in the "Because of the virus con­since Sunday night and had knee. Dnfending champion and tracted last week in Antwerp, been hoping to get better." 


The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar Collage Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 


Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Not1ces 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ALTERATIONS AND 
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 
259-8684. 
WORD PROCESSING 
256-6657 
CUSTOMIZED WORD 
PROCESSING 
Reports/resumes/letters. 
271·1618. 
GOIN' BACK TO CALl@ X-MAS? 
"I have a R. T. ticket to L. A 
from S. B.... IT COULD BE 
YOURS''CHEAP''$355.00'' 
(LEAVES FRI A.M.) 
CALL NOW! 

'""""""KATE X266B 
RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT 
Couple seeks babysitter tor 6 mo. old mtant. 9 Hrs/wk, min. Experience with infants preferred, transportation required. Phone: 287-0260 
CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS to Lt. NYC, and NJ STILL HAS ROOM! $110. VCR. Call Anthony Cornetta at 1751! 
Lost and Found 
··-•••••••HELP•••••••••• 
I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE,IN. CHRIS X4327. 
Lost: 
One NAVY BLUE EDDIE BAUER 
BACK PACK in bookstore on friday. 
Contains computer diskets that I 
desperately need! 
If you have them pleasellllll Return 
them to 
Please call #2817 $$$ 
REWARD IF RETURNED NO 
QUESTIONS ASKED 
FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed eyeglasses was found Sunday night (12·1) on a walkway across from the JACC. If they're yours and ya want 'em -call X3BB511 
To Whomever stole my calculator and bookbag: 
I have the user manual, so you can stop by and pick it up anytime. Room 309 Sorin Hall 
LOST: Between PE and PW on Saturday a finished roll of 24 exposures Kodak film In a black round container-if found please call x4434 and ask for Aimee or drop it off at 719 PE. 
LOST: Black and gold Citizen watch with inscription on back. Lost in Washington Hall some time Friday or Saturday night. If found, please call Paul at x1208. Thanks. 
LOST/reward: BLUE BOOKBAG 
at -COACH'S-early last week 
contains needed disk @ paper 
call Chops 234-1048 -NO Q'S 
Wanted 

Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987 Camry auto to Seattle, WA; will pay $100 plus gas; caii291-460B. 
WANTED FRIENDLY COLLEGE 
AGE FEMALE FOR PART-TIME 
BABYSITTER. MUST LIKE KIDS. 
MOSTLY EVENINGS WITH SOME 
FLEXIBLE DAY TIMES. CALL 
KARYL LEE 233-6390. 

Have AA Tic. SB to MN 
Fri. Dec 20, 5PM 
Will Trade For Earlier 
Flight Same Day 
x1523 

$40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV 
Scripts. Fill out simple 

"like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11KEB. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2­BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan 1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. 
SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH 
NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. 
WANTED: Ride to Washington 
D.C. area for Xmas break.Piease call Allison x4928 
STUDENT FOR PART TIME OFFICE WORK. LOCAL OFFICE OF NAT'L COMPANY. SHOULD HAVE HIGH GPA. COMPUTER EXPERIENCE, & OUTGOING PERSONALITY. CALL 273-1 866. 
For Rent 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call277-8866 Tues/Sat. 1Oam/5pm. 
Near N.D. cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 dep. ref. 288-7207 
Nice So. Bend home, 5 mins from NO. Wshr/dryer. refrig, stove, dishwasher, A/C & garage. $420/mo.+dep. 
232-8943 Mark. 

NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE 
FOR NEXT FALL. 
Two 4-BR furnished homes with 
security systems and washer/dryer. 
259-7801 or 255-5852 for more 
details. 
Want to get off campus? Two 
bedroom, fully furnished, close to 
campus. Available as of Jan 1. Call 
x3791. 
Female Graduate Student: FREE 
room and board in exchange for 
minimal "nanny" 
(baby-sitting) services. 
Transportation necessary. Please 
call 239-7308. 
Portage Ave. House: '92-'93 yr. 6 bedrms. , 2 baths, Lrg. living rm. & yard. Washer & dryer. Furnished. Extra safe area. 234-3831/288-5653 
RENTAL-TURTLE CREEK 
2BR-Furnished, Avail 111 
Call collect 708-446-9286 
480 mo.+ ht. 
2 RM'S FOR RENT 
200 PER MONTH 
USE OF ALL UTILITIES 
ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 
4-6 Bed Rm. Furn. House, New Carpet + Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Alarm syst., Across From Bus Stop. Best houses will be gone after X­Mas. 233-9947. 
For Sale 
AIRLINE TICKET: CHICAGO TO DENVER ROUND TRIP. DATES VARIABLE (OVER X-MAS BREAK). CALL ANDY 283-1305 
MINOLTA X370 35mm Camera. 
50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash. and 
more. Like new. $225, OBO. 233­
2344 after 5. 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 
86 VW$50 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC. 
South Bend to Philadelphia-for sale-one way plane ticket for Dec. 22 at 7:00am. Call Ellen 
x2929. 
16 GENESIS GAMES 
x1746 
Tickets 
ND ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLY PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415) 579-1432. 
Spend New Year's in Florida! $2,400 Value! 3 RT tix Indy to Miami Lv 7am 12/25, Retrn 4pm 1/5 Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188 
MUST SELL!!! Cheap Sugar Bowl tickets and roundtrip airfare. Call us and make an offer. x14B5 or x1529 
Extra Sugar Bowl Tix available and NEED to be sold! call Marko, x3587 
Personal 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
GETAWAY WEEKEND KOONTZ HOUSE BED 'N BREAKFAST 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE DAME 586-7090 
stronger than burt 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, ·289-1993. Office near campus. 
YOU DO GOOOODDIIII!! YOU NOT DIVE CROOKED. CONGRADULATIONS CANNONBALL! 
ADOPTION: Proud parents of adopted toddler eager to find newborn to join our family. Our warm and stable home offers security, lots of adoring relatives and a life full of love. Please call Barb and Dave collect 513-751­7077. 
GLEE CLUB 
CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 Due to reduced seating. tickets will be sold for the first time ever @ info desk in LaFortune for $1. 
HURRY, HURRY. AVOID THE RUSH. PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS GREETING PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST ISSUE FOR THE OBSHlVER IS FRIDAY, DEC. 13. 
Lando Owns You! 
YO PAT! IT HAS BEEN 3 YEARS SINCE YOU LEFT US. WE MISS YOU LIKE CRAZY. 
IF YOU SEE DEB GRADY WISH HER A HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY AND ASK HER IF SHE HAS BEEN KISSED RECENTLY. from your friends at the Broke Spoke! 
A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
SURVIVORS OF RAPE 
will be offered free of charge next 
semester by Sex Offense Services 
(SOS). Co-facilitated by trained 
advocates, it will be open to all 
students from ND/SMC. Held on 
campus, the group will be 
completely confidential. For more 
info. please call the SOS office at 
234-0061 X 231. 
bird watcher: if you stop wanking you can still hear them singing 
You thought you were the Lizard 
King, but Lando Owns You 
GOING TO THE SUGAR BOWL? Then don't miss The Observer's special pull-out section this Friday, December 13. Not only will it feature important slats and info about the big game, but it will be the definative guide to what to do and where to go in New Orleans. Don't missit. ' 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800­456-2656. 
FLY ANYWHERE USA $189 R!T. The 1992 Student Travel Update is here. 24 hr. info. 716-383­2168 
Need Ride to Pittsburgh for Christmas. Santa's sleigh is full so I need help. Call Eric X1026 
Desparate women seek to sell extra Sugar Bowl Tix Ill call Sandi or Laura, x2732 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
Rebecca Malia Hanson 
"War Eagle II" 
Top Ten Lessons Learned at Another Manor SYR: 
10. Beware: Flying vomit on the dance floor. 
9. If you can't find your shirt check the garbage. 
B. Heads up! Eggs and black velvet don't mix. 
7. Watch ou.t for drunken stumblers in 2CD. 
6. Dates don't fit behind the wardrobe. 
5. Even BABS can find a date at 11:30 pml 
4. Your date makes a perfect crutch on the dance floor. 3. 2CD? 2CDI 2CD? 2CDI 
2. Couples behind locked doors must be a Manor thing. 
1. If you've got it-FLAUNT IT! 
BOSKI IS THE LIZARD KING. HE IS NOT DEAD. NOTIIIII!II 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 
Our LAST meeting of the semester is in THEODORE'S on Thursday from 8:00 -9:30. Come, even if you haven't been in a while! Next semester. we'll start over with new dances. so bring some friends to join in the fun I 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 
CONGRATULATIONS, BAGS 0' !#@&I WE SURVIVED! 
PAID FOR BY S. 0. A. (first in a series of soa ads this week-more to come!) 
I'm fine. I'm O.K. ,I can Handle this. and Gosh darn it. People Like Me! 
Lost: One NAVY BLUE EDDIE BAUER BACK PACK in bookstore on friday. Contains computer dlskets that I desperately need I If you have them pleasell!lll Return them to Please call #2817 $$$ REWARD IF RETURNED NO QUESTIONS ~SKED 
I am the Amphibian Queen and I rule the Lizard King! 
Have you been naughty or nice? Watch for Santa Claus coming to a final exam near you! 
To Jessica, Chuck, Roger. Julie, Matt, Mike, Colleen, Amy, Meg, Loan, and Robert I wish rest and happiness over the holidays. God Bless. 
-lT. Rock 
KL, JD, MD. 
You're simply the best! Vous me manquerez pendant les · vacances. 
Buvez, Fumez, et Fermez le cui EBD 
Johnny, You're a hell of a fiddle player. We'll miss you. Good Luck in London! ST. PETER THE GREAT Love, ED, MD, JD, KL 
Congrats Ed Broderick. 
Thanks to all my friends in low places at Kristin's Friday night. What a family tradition! 
Our lives are over-we no longer have a chance to bear Garth Brooks' first love-childII 
Good Luck Pete and Batch next semester! 
Merry Christmas Lizall'm glad everything worked out! Good Luck on your test. Have a great break and don't do anything I wouldn't dol 


page 14 The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1991 
Penguins stay hot at home with 5-3 win; Red Wings skate past Blackhawks 
~




I.---~------~~ ~ 
King, Perdue lead Bulls past Sonics 
Wilkins scores 41 in Hawks' win; Pacers knock off Spurs 
CHICAGO (AP} -Centers Stacey King and Will Perdue, averaging a combined 13.8 points, scored a total of 35 points Tuesday night, helping the Chicago Bulls to a 108-103 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics. 
The win was the Bulls' 15th in 16 games, while the loss snapped Seattle's winning streak at three. 
King, averaging 10.4 points, scored a season-high 22 for Chicago, and had a hot hand in the third quarter with 10 as the Bulls fended off a SuperSonics rally. 
Ricky Pierce led the Super­Sonics with 30 points and hit all five of his free throws to give him 68 without a miss, 10 short of the NBA record set by Calvin Murphy of Houston in 1980-81 
Scottie Pippen paced Chicago with 23 points, while Michael Jordan scored 19 and Perdue a season-high 13, compared to his season average of 3.4. Shawn Kemp had a season-high 24 points for Seattle. 
The Sonics trailed only 70-69 before Chicago used a 12-5 spurt, including consecutive 3­point baskets by Pippen and 
B.J. Armstrong, for an 82-74 advantage entering the fourth quarter. The Bulls then scored 10 straight points at the outset of the final quarter to increase their lead to 92-7 4. 
Hawks 118, Bucks 104 
ATLANTA -Dominique Wilkins scored 41 points and Kevin Willis had 24 points and 
PITTSBURGH (AP} -Bob Errey scored short-handed to complete a four-goal Pittsburgh second period that included two Mark Recchi goals and the Penguins remained hot at home, beating the New York Rangers 5-3 Tuesday night. 
Mario Lemieux also scored as Pittsburgh turned a 2-1 deficit into a pair of two-goal )eads that prompted Rangers coach Roger Neilson to lift goaltender Mike Richter, who had won four of his last five starts. 
The Penguins, beginning a key stretch of Patrick Division games, are 5-0-2 in their last seven home games and 7-2-1 overall in their last 10. They are 7-4-4 at home after starting the season with two victories in their first eight home games. 
Sugar Bowl '92 
Land Packages 
from$269PPDBLOCC 
I(800) 348-1133 Barker 7aars 
I A ~ 11'1 l.:l 
THE RONKIN LSAT COURSE SHOULD BE 

A LAW. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 Students Per Class 40 Hours Of Live Instruction Live Tutorial National 800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
!DUCITIONH G!OU'
•
SOUTH BEND 

14 rebou.nds as Atlanta took control in the second quarter and coasted against Milwaukee. 
Wilkins, who had an NBA season-high 52 points Saturday night, also had 13 rebounds. 
It was the eighth consecutive road loss for the Bucks, who trailed 57-43 at halftime and never got closer than 10 points the rest of the way. 
Moses Malone, returning to Atlanta for the first time since signing with the Bucks, led Milwaukee with a season-high 27 points and 13 rebounds. 
It was the 19th consecutive game with double figures in points and rebounds for Willis, who failed to accomplish that feat only in the season opener when he had nine points and 12 rebounds. 
Pacers 109, Spurs 102 
INDIANAPOLIS -Reggie Miller scored 25 points, includ­ing a key layup in the final mo­ments, as Indiana handed San Antonio its fifth consecutive de­feat. 
The Spurs, who started the season 10-3, were led by Willie Anderson with 22 points and David Robinson with 20 points and eight blocked shots. Micheal Williams had 23 points for the Pacers, and €huck Person scored 20. 
Miller's layup with 13.5 sec­onds left gave Indiana a 105­101 lead before Donald Royal missed one of two free throws 
Red Wings5, 
Blackhawks 3 
DETROIT -Sergei Fedorov had two goals and an assist and Jimmy Carson scored two goals as the hot Detroit Red Wings beat the Chicago Blackhawks 5­3. 
Detroit, 11-1-3 in its last 15 games, outshot the Blackhawks 33-22, including a 25-8 margin in the first two periods. 
The Blackhawks only man­aged four shots in each of the first two periods, and took 6:07 to record their first shot of the third period. The Red Wings led 5-1 before a late flurry by the Blackhawks. 
Islanders 7, Blues 7 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Brett Hull, the NHL's leading goal­
.'U'U'Utf'll'U'If11'Utf11'U'U11'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U1r1r'U'U'U'U'U'Utf'U11'U'U11111111'U111111'U..
d

~ ~  Great  . ft I  ea  ~ ~  
:  :  
~  ~  

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
= 199.2 Gift = 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ = ~ Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore = ~ ~ 2nd Floor ~ 
:J/.1 
for San Antonio with 10.9 sec­onds remaining. The Spurs did not get the ball in scoring posi­tion again. 
Rik Smits and Detlef Schrempf sealed the victory by hitting two free throws each in the final 10 seconds. 
Knicks 114, Nets 88 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Patrick Ewing had 23 points and 12 rebounds and New York beat New Jersey for the seventh consecutive time. 
The Knicks, who never trailed in the game, outscored the Nets 34-21 in the second period to take command of the game and roll to their eighth victory in nine outings. Leading by four points, New York used a 10-0 run for a 37-23 edge. 
Later in the second period, Ewing scored on a three-point play and Gerald Wilkins and Charles Oakley added baskets, giving New York a 55-33 edge 
2:17 before the half. 
New York continued to roll early in the second half, ex­panding their 19-point halftime lead to 73-43 with a 14-3 spurt. 
Drazen Petrovic led the Nets with 22 points. 
Mavericks 114, Heat 110, OT 
DALLAS -Rolando Blackman scored 31 points, including a pair of free throws with 26 seconds left in overtime, as Dallas snapped a four-game losing streak and handed Miami its fifth consecutive loss. 
scorer, had a hat trick for St. Louis and Ray Ferraro for New York as the Blues and the Islanders played to a wild 7-7 tie on Tuesday night. 
The Islanders, who earlier announced that owner John Pickett had agreed to sell the team, got a dramatic goal from Steve Thomas with 17 seconds left in regulation to pull out the tie. 
Earlier, Hull's hat trick -the 13th of his career -had im­proved his NHL-leading total to 
27. He has led the league in goals for two straight years, including 86 last season. 
Capitals 4, Flames 1 
LANDOVER, Md. -AI Iafrate and Peter Bondra scored less than a minute apart midway 


Blackman, who scored 11 jumper with 1:48 to play and points in the fourth quarter, then gave Dallas the lead for gave the Mavericks their final good with two free throws at margin of victory with his the 1:22 mark. clutch free throws. 
Miami was led by Willie Miami's last lead came with Burton with 23 points, and 
2:04 left in overtime as Rony Grant Long with 22. Seikaly Seikaly's follow shots made it finished with 18 points and 14 110-108. Derek Harper sank a rebounds. 
through the second period as the Washington Capitals de­feated the Calgary Flames 4-1. 
Don Beaupre made 20 saves and won his third straight game as the Capitals, 21-9-0, tied Montreal atop the overall standings. 
Dino Ciccarelli and Sylvain Cote each had a pair of assists for the Capitals, who have won three of their last four games. Joe Nieuwendyk scored for the Flames, who have lost five of the last six games. 
Nordiques 5, Bruins 2 
QUEBEC -The Quebec Nordiques stretched their un­beaten string to five games, their longest in five years, as Greg Paslawski and Mike Hough got two goals apiece in a 5-2 victory over the Boston Bruins. 
The resurgent Nordiques, who have four victories and a tie during the streak, have moved within one point of the Buffalo Sabres, the fourth-place team in the Adams Division. 
The last time Quebec had that long an unbeaten streak was in March 1986. The Nordiques have also won six straight games at the Colisee for the first time since 1985. 
North Stars 4, Devils 3 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. Bobby Smith scored with 3:14 left, just 2:58 after New Jersey goalie Chris Terreri allowed the tying goal on a slow roller, as the Minnesota North Stars ral­lied for a 4-3 victory over the Devils. 


~==2=7=3=·=1=8=6=6====~'U'U11'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U111111'U'U'U'U'If'U'U'U'U~'U'U'U'U'U'U'U'U1r'U'U'Utrtri 

Wednesday, December 11, 1991 The Observer page 15 


Angels wheel-and-deal at baseball's winter meetings 

Herzog makes two trades, resigns Finley 
MIAMI BEACII. Fla. (AP) -Whilny llnrzog again stamped his trademark on baseball's winter mnetings. swinging two morn tradns Tuesday and then making surn Chuek Finley won't slip away. 
The Angels. who got Von llayns from l'hiladnlphia in a dnal Sunday and lost free agent Wally .loynnr on Monday. wem on tlw move all day. 
llnrzog tradnd for llubie Brooks in a swap of outfielders that sent DavP Gallagher to the Nnw York Mets. and acquired Chuek Crirn from Milwaukee for Mike Fetters in an exchange of rnlinvnrs. 
llnrzog. however. did not want to trade Finley, despite rumors that he might get Huben Sierra. Kevin MeHnynolds or other power hit­tnrs in return. So the Angels signed tho Inft-hander to a four­year. $18.5 million contract. 
"W11'rn not done yet. We want to see if we can strengthen this thing a little more." Herzog said. "You have to be a little srnartnr than nveryone else to do it, or at ll~ast think you are." 
The addition of Brooks fur­llwr n1ducnd the chances the Angels would want free agent Danny Tartabull. The Angels once were the leading eandidate to land him; now, the Chieago White Sox, Boston and San Diego are scrambling to get him. 
Mariano Duncan found a new home when Philadelphia signed the free agent infielder to a two-year. $4.5 million contract. 

AP File Photo Hubie Brooks (shown here when he was with the Dodgers) was traded Tuesday from the New York Mets to the California Angels. 
Mike LaValliere. meanwhile, will stay put as the catcher ac­cepted Pittsburgh's offer of salary arbitration. 
Also, journeyman catcher Jerry Willard. who won Game 4 of the World Series with a sac­rifice fly, signed another one­year contract with Atlanta. Once again. he is not guaran­teed a spot in the majors. 
In a minor league deal that someday could be major, Houston and Cleveland made a 2-for-2 swap. All four players spent time last season in the majors and minors, with the best prospect being new Cleveland outfielder Kenny Lofton, who was voted the Pacific Coast League's top player. 
As usual. there were more rumors. San Francisco was considering sending Kevin Mitchell to Texas for reliever Jeff Russell and, in the most juicy tidbit, Oakland confirmed that Jose Canseco's name had come up in talks with the New York Yankees. 
"It was a typical conversation between two teams knocking around ideas about what could happen," Athletics general manager Sandy Alderson said. "I'd be surprised if it hap­pened." 
NL president Bill White said his teams talked about re­alignment when Denver and Miami join the league in 1993. Atlanta. Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis are teams that could switch divisions, he said. 
·White also said the league discussed how to split up its schedule when the expansion teams arrive. Under the current NL schedule, teams play others in their division 18 times and each in the other division 12. White said the league was con­sidering proposals to play ei­ther 20 or 18 intra-division games, and either six or eight games outside the division. 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­Jeff Smulyan told the American League owners on Tuesday why is trying to sell the Mariners and said the franchise's future is now "in the hands of the people of Seattle." 
Smulyan announced Friday that the Mariners were for sale for $100 million. Local buyers, with perhaps financial assis­tance from the city government, have 120 days to purchase the club. ' 
If local ownership does not come forth in that period, Smulyan would have to give a notice to vacate. He has not done that so far. 
"This issue is in the hands of the city," Smulyan said at the winter meetings. "The lease provides the community the right to own this team. But I'm not going to give any guaran­tees. It is out of my hands. If no one comes forward in 120 days we feel the team has a right to leave Seattle." 
There already have been ru­mors that if local ownership is not found in Seattle, the team would move to St. Petersburg. 
"We felt we could no longer do the job in Seattle," Smulyan said. "The revenues in Seattle have never approached that of any other team in the major leagues." 
One of the biggest problems for the Mariners has been rev­enue from television and radio rights. The Mariners make a major-league low $1.5 million from their media deals. 
"There are going to be three or four clubs this year that will have a payroll larger than our total revenue," general man­ager Woody Woodward said. 
"Our most prosperous club generates in excess of $100 mil­lion a year while at the end of 

. . . 

New Orleal"'s .. / ·--.•-· > . 
Jt~l~.•~:~!!!!~~i;,,:,, : ; : :;iii , • ;I;~1i 
Wdh Continental Breakfast, C~aR}pagne .Re~eption;. ~~af~~~ <·-· / Hord'oeuvres· and.a··.Riverboat Piddle Cruise~<·· · 
. . .. ¥-$165 5 DAYS ~"4 ~IGHTS < .·. With Continentil Breakf~t, .th8Jnp~~e.•_~e.ce.. J_t.t_lOt'J;i~.~·~.o.9~~;..i / Hor d'oeuvres and aRiverboat Paddle ··· ···················· ····· •·· 
. ...$145 4DAYS-~3 UII!L.Ii"i"~> •• .With Continental Breakfast, Champagne Rec:eptllon.andl s ··..· ·_._. Hor 
.M$1z5Ja····· 
vrdh confine·•'tal. Br•~aldra$1:/C~Iam))aalneR.ec 

Welcome to New Orleans & The Sugar Bowl 
Ir1 sh Hdqr. at O'F 1 aherty's 1r1 sh Pub 514 Toulouse Str. -French Quarter 
L1ve lr1sh mus1c & s1ng1ng -harp & m1scellaneous Ir1 sh dr1 nks 
Iugar Bowl 

504 • 248 • 2400 or
'ncll:els Available 
1··800 • 348 • 2299 
For reservations Call 

Smulyan puts Mariners up for sale; asking price: $100 million 
the revenue spectrum, there is a club whose annual revenues are less than $40 million," commissioner Fay Vincent said. 
Smulyan said if the Mariners stay in Seattle the city would still need to work on a solution to make baseball a success in the area. The Seattle Pilots en­tered the AL in 1969 but left for Milwaukee after only one sea­son. 
"You cannot litigate the suc­cess of baseball," Smulyan said. 
King County is threatening a lawsuit if Smulyan moves the Mariners. The county disagrees on an interpretation of an ad­vance attendance clause in the lease, and any move could be delayed indefinitely if the two sides end up in court. Lawsuits also may be filed against base­ball. 
King County executive Tim I-fill on Monday sent a letter to Vincent and the AL urging offi­cials to insist the Mariners stay in Seattle. 
"We have to do what we think is correct," AL president Bobby Brown said. "We can't afford the bankruptcy of a club." 
Smulyan, however, said his group had no intention of filing for bankruptcy. Smulyan, who lives in Indianapolis, purchased the Mariners for $76 million in 1989. It's unlikely he will get his asking price of $100 million. 
Officials in St. Petersburg say they would need about 60 days to make the field playable. so it seems very doubtful the Mariners would move this year. The Major League Baseball Players Association could also protest that the travel required in the 1992 schedule would vio­late the collective bargaining agreement if the team relocated to another time zone. 
r-
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1991 

Sheridan drops out of running for Texas job 
AUSTIN (AP) -North Carolina State football coach Dick Sheridan, reportedly on a short list for the job at Texas, said Tuesday the future "looks bright and exciting» for the Wolfpack and that he doesn't plan to seek another coaching position. 
With Sheridan apparently removing his name from the Texas search, attention was exp~cted to focus on Illinois coach John Mackovic, who has been endorsed by his ex· boss. former Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry. 
The News-Gazette in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., re­ported Tuesday that the University of Illinois has been working on a long-term com­pensation package for Mackovic in case the Jllini football coach and athletic director doesn't leave for the University of Texas. 
The compensation package has been in the works for sev­eral months and is based on the' presumption that he would want to stay on as athletic director at Illinois until about the year 2000, the News-Gazette reported. 
Illinois spokesman Mike Pearson said he couldn't con­firm the report or provide any more information other than Mackovlc was in his office Tuesday and not taking tele­phone calls from reporters. 

But Ulini offensive tackle Tony Laster said Mackovic had talked to the team on Friday about the coaching rumors. 
"He told us not to believe everything we hear," Laster said. 
Unidentified sources close to the Texas athletic departmeni were quoted by the Austin American­Statesman as saying Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds and UT-Austin President William Cunningham most likely would interview Mackovic on Wednesday, outside of Austin. 
Mackovic meets the criteria set by Dodds when announcing the search. Dodds said then that he wanted someone· with Division lA and possibly pro coaching 
experience~ 

Dodds was in New York City ou Tuesday for an athletic banquet. His office said he wouldn't be back in Austin until late Wednesday. 
Dodds has said several times that Texas is considering six to seven coaches,for the position that opene.d up with the Dec. 2 resignation of David McWilliams. 
SEATTLE (AP) -If the Washington Huskies beat Michigan, even by a single point, in the Rose Bowl on New Year's Day, they'll be coach Don James' own personal national champions.. 
He said he doesn't know if his second-ranked Huskies then would deserve to be first in The Associated Press poll or the USA Today-CNN coaches poll ahead of top-rated Miami. 
. "But they'll get my vote," James said Tuesday. 
The Big Ten Conference champion Wolverines are ranked fourth. Miami is playing 11th-ranked Nebraska in th'tl Orange Bowl. He made it clear he prefers to talk about Michigan, not Miami. 
"We're not taking the ap­
proach we're playing Miami," 
James said. "We're playing 
Michigan. I'm not assuming 
anything." 
He said winning a national championship has been his top goal since arriving in Seattle from Kent State 17 seasons ago. He emphasized it's not an all-important goal, though. 
"It's not something I go to bed at night saying prayers about," James said. 'Here, Lord, give me a national championship.' I don't do that. I'm not consumed by it. But it would be wonderful if it happened." 
James votes in the coaches' poll but he doesn't consider it the final word. He said he'd set-

Huskies' coach unwilling to campaign for national title 


Indiana routs Vanderbilt; Iowa rolls 
Three starters sit out first half of 88-51 Hoosier victory 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­No effort meant no start for Indiana's Calbert Cheaney, Eric Anderson and Damon Bailey. 
Instead, the trio acted as bench-bound cheerleaders while teammates Greg Graham and Matt Nover each scored 14 points in the 13th-ranked Hoosiers' 88-51 rout of Vanderbilt (3-2) on Tuesday night. 
Cheaney, the team's leading scorer at 15.5 points, Anderson and Bailey were benched by coach Bob Knight, who has been unhappy with his team's offensive production in a 3-2 start. 
Cheaney had started each of Indiana's four previous games, Anderson three and Bailey two. 
''I've put the people out there like I have for 20 years that will give us effort," Knight said. "Effort involves paying atten­tion to what is to be done. I don't think that's asking too much of a kid." 
The trio started the second half and made their presence 
Guatemalan Imports Returns with new shipment (great Christmas buys) 
* 
Vests 
Shirts 
Hooded Bajas Fanny Packs Beaded Jewelry and avariety of hats, belts, purses, barenes aheadbands. Traditional Indian Clothing a DHICh, RIICh, morel Lafortune Dec.B-13 from 1Oam -5pm in the Iorin Room 

known immediately by scoring Indiana's first nine points. Cheaney had five points in the 9-6 run, which boosted the Hoosiers' lead to 45-34 with 
16:51 remaining. 
No. 16 Iowa 108, N.lowa 85 
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa-James Moses scored 15 of 21 points in the first half as No. 16 Iowa opened the game with a 17-0 run and defeated Northern Iowa 108-85 Tuesday night. 
Iowa (6-0), hitting 12 of its first 16 shots, led by 26 points 8 1/2 minutes into the game and was never threatened in beating Northern Iowa for the 18th time in 20 meetings. The Hawkeyes led 51-29 at halftime and were ahead by as many as 28 points late. 
Louisville 96, Maryland 79 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Cornelius Holden scored 23 points, 16 of them in the second half, as Louisville defeated Maryland 96-79 Tuesday night. 
The Cardinals (3-0) did not hit a field goal during a three­minute span at the end of the game, but the trailing Terrapins (5-1) were forced to foul and Louisville made nine of 12 free throws in the stretch. 
After Evers Burns opened the second half with a Maryland basket, Louisville ran off the next nine points. Holden scored seven during the spurt that gave the Cardinals a 59-42 ad­vantage with 17:12 left in the game. 

ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINFSS ADMINISTRATION JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than December 20, 1991. 

One senior and one junior will be selected this fall, first meeting will be in the Spring 1992 semester. 
Don James 

tle for the AP national title, which is decided by the media. 
"Whichever one would vote for us," he said. "I could care less. Just as long as we get one of them." 
The low-key James said he's not going to campaign to win his first national title. 
"I think the votes are going to come on how the teams play," he said. "The voters will have an opportunity to evaluate our game and all the other games and they'll make their choice based on what they see. The most impact we have on the voters is not what I say, but what our team does." 
The Huskies finished second to Brigham Young after beating Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl after the 1984 season. They were 11-1 that season. 
"I was disappointed in the voters, but I don't remember losing any sleep over it," he said. 
The Pacific-10 Conference champion Huskies (11-0) will open their Rose Bowl practices Saturday morning and then work out the following five days before leaving for Southern California on Dec. 20. The team will train at the Los Angeles Rams' practice field. 
James smiled slightly when a reporter asked him if he would pour it on 10-1 Michigan to im­press the voters in an effort to win the national championship. 
"I can't eee anybody pouring it on Michigan," he said. "They're too good. I'd take a one-point victory right now." 
James said if Michigan beats Washington and if Nebraska beats Miami, then he'd vote for the Wolverines as national champions. 
The Wolverines are a much better team than the one that lost to Florida State 51-31 in Ann Arbor in their third game of the season, he said. 
"You. don't see a weakness," James said of the Wolverines. "They appear to be a good bit quicker than Iowa was in last year's Rose Bowl. l think trying to defend them will be as big a challenge as we've had in the years I've been here." 
The New Year's Day game is important to Washington, but James plans to let his players have their share of fun in their stay in the Los Angeles area. 
"It's not going to be a Marine boot camp," he said. 

@
Need A Spring Break??t: 
Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience C
ICalll.S00-359-9808 Today I .,., 
Misa en espafiol 
Mass in Spanish 

Fiesta de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe 
Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe  
Jueves, 12 de diciembre Spm, Sacred Heart Church Thursday, December 12  
Celebrante: P. Ted Weber, esc Musica liturgica por el cora focl6rico de Notre Dame  Liturgical music of the Notre Dame Folk Choir  

Despues de la misa, cena mexicana y festividades al CSC de 6-Bpm. La cena esta patrodnada por la sociedad Guadalupena de la parroquia de St. Stephen's (donaci6n de 53). 
Following Mass, Mexican dinner and festir•ities at the Center for Social Concerns from 6:00 -8:00pm. Dinner sponsored by the Guadaluperia Society of St. Stephen's Parish ($3.00 donation). 
-OFFICE OF 


0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

Wednesday, December 11, 1991 The Observer page 17 

Eagles sign Archer to replace injured McMahon 
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) -The Philadelphia Eagles signed free agent quarterback David Archer to a one-year contract Tuesday, while his former teammate, Jim McMahon, re­mained in the hospital with four broken ribs. 
Coach Hich Kotite said Archer would practice Wednnsday with the team as it prepares for Sunday's game against the Dallas Cowboys. 
·"He'll spend a lot of extra hours with quarterback coach Zeke Bratkowski over the next few days and we'll take things from there." Kotite said Tuosday. 
.Jeff Kemp, who relieved McMahon the past two games for victories over Houston and New York, was expected to start Sunday. Rookie Brad Goebel is the other backup. 
Archer, 29, spent the 1989-90 season as McMahon's backup on the San Diego Chargers be­

orrection 
A photo cutline on page 16 o The Observer incorrectly indentified Tont Richardson as Jean Joseph, each of whom are players on the men's soccer team. Joseph was named The Observer Player of the Year for his sport. Thf~ Observer regrets the error. 
As well, u story and accom­punying graphic yestnrday on pago 14 of The Observer incorrectly mported the scores of two women's interhall basketball scores. The correct finals were Walsh 25, Farley 24, and Farley's B-team defeated Breen-Phillips' B­leam 33-10. 

fore being waived in August 1990. He also played briefly for Washington and Miami in 1988 and 1989. A seven-year veteran from Iowa State. he signed with the Atlanta Falcons in 1984 and was waived in 1987. 
In 48 career games, Archer completed 336 of 661 passes for 4,337 yards, 18 touchdowns and 30 interceptions. 
"I am just excited to get an opportunity to come in and contribute to a team the caliber of the Philadelphia Eagles and a team that has a chance to go to the playoffs," Archer said. 
The Eagles, riding a six-game winning streak. are tied with New Orleans, Atlanta and Dallas at 9-5 with two games left in the race for the last two NFC wild-card berths. San Francisco (8-6) is also in the picture. 
Archer becomes the sixth quarterback to join the Eagles, who have been plagued by in­juries in that position. 
McMahon took the starting job after Randall Cunningham was knocked out for the season with torn knee ligaments in Philadelphia's season opener. 
McMahon on Sept. 30 suf­fered ligament damage in his right knee and was out for four weeks. Former New York Jets quarterback Pat Hyan and Goebel both were ineffective as they traded starting positions in McMahon's place. 
McMahon broke his ribs Sunday in the second quarter of the Eagles' 19-14 victory over the Giants. , 
McMahon remained in the in­tensive-care unit of Graduate Hospital on Tuesday night. 
MVP 
continued from page 20 
tational and the MCC Cham­pionships, where she was also named MVP. 
This past weekend at the NIVC's, she had 83 kills and 91 digs in six matches to gain All­NIVC recognition as Notre Dame finished second out of the 20-team field. Topping it all off, she shared the Monogram Club's team MVP award with junior Marilyn Cragin. 
"When I got here (to Notre Dame). I just heard Jessica's 
Jessica Fiebelkorn j 
• 
1st team AII-MCC 

• 
MVP MCC Championships 

• 
All-Tournament Nationallnvitat Volleyball Champioships 


name a lot-people spoke very highly of her," said first-year Irish coach Debbie Brown. "The last half of the season, she re­ally picked up her game and played real well. She did exactly what everyone said she could do." 
"I feel I'm naturally a leader, but it's not something I pur­posely set out to do. I've always enjoyed a challenge, and I'm an extremely competitive person," explained Fiebelkorn. "I really wanted the team to do well this season, and I knew that I would need to pull my weight for us to succeed. I needed to dig down deep, but I like to rise to the 
• 
All-Tournament SW Missouri State 1""' 1."'''~'" 

• 
Named by Monogram Club as team Co-MVP 

• 
Led team in digs with 425 

• 
Led team in blocks with 186 (31 solo) 

• 
2nd on team in kills with 347 




Peters fr. outside hitter 
Newcomer of the Year AII-MCC rnament MCC Championships 
• 
• All-Tournament Miami Invitational 
• 
2nd on team in digs with 388 and aces with 36 

• 
3rd on team in kills with 306 


The Observer/Ann-Marie COnrado 
Happy 19th Birthday Lily Mark!~ 
"See You Paw" 

"I just see myself as one of six players on the court. and one of fifteen off. I try to be there for my teammates whenever they need me-that's a big part of what I want to accomplish for this team." 
While Fiebelkorn was ex­pected to star for the Irish this season, Peters was more of a surprise. 
A 5-foot-11 freshman from Solana Beach, Cal., she entered the starting lineup a third of the way through the year, and went on to lead the team in kills per game (2.81) and digs per game (3.56). She also finished second in total digs (388), aces (36) and third in to­tal kills (306). 
"We felt that she would be a player who could come in and contribute quickly, but we didn't think she would make quite as big an impact as she did," said Brown. "She's one of the most consistent players on the team-she doesn't make many errors." 
"I thought I might come in and play a little this year, but I definitely wasn't expecting to start." added Peters. 
While Peters is one of the qui­etest and most unassuming members of the team, her statistics speak volumes. She was named the MCC's Newcom­er of the Year, earning second­team all-conference honors as well. She also made the all­tournament teams at the Miami Invitational and the MCC's. 
In 14 games she piled up double figures in kills-with a high of 22 against Texas­Arlingt~n-and six games with 20 or more digs, including a career-high 24 against Illinois State. 
"She's a smart and consistent player," said Turner. "She's a little quiet on the court. but she can hit the heck out of the ball. I think she surprised a lot of people because she doesn't ap­pear to have overwhelming power, but she gets the job done. 
"She definitely made her name known from the begin­ning, so it was never a surprise to see her finally make the starting lineup. She's an ex­tremely talented athlete, and I think we were all really com­fortable to play with her right from the start." 
Point 
continued from page 20 
Dikembe Motumbo with their second overall selection. 
This situation has a lot of maybes, but one thing is for sure: the 5-13 Nets are struggling. On the other hand, the Lakers and Knicks, teams which have solved their problems at the point, are looking like contenders for the NBA title.




1992-93 ASSISTANT RECTOR APPLICATIONS 
UNDERGRADUATE RESIDENCE HAIJS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 315 ADIVIINISTRATION BUILDING 
Through Friday, January 31, 1992 
' 
f 
• · "' "' "' ,.. r # e .... 't "" '""1 I I • a ... W 114 I I .a • W ••• t ll ·f I A ••• • • • • -' • • " . 
The Observer Wednesday, December 11, 1991
page 18 

Women's swimmers dominate meet 
.. 
Williams, Wood lead Irish to easy win at National Catholics 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team won the National Catholic Swimming and Diving Championships at Boston College over the weekend for the second straight year thanks to a total team effort. 
The Irish won 14 of the meet's 20 events including all five of the relays. 
"We entered a strong team and dominated the meet," said Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. "We took twenty girls to the meet and all twenty scored more than once." 
Junior All-American Tanya Williams had another stellar meet winning three events in­cluding the 200 individual med­ley, the 400 individual medley, and the 200 backstroke events. Her performance earned her the most valuable swimmer of the meet award for the second straight year in a row. 

Senior Becky Wood also had a successful trip to Boston, winning both of the breast­stroke events. Wood is the first person to win the same event four years in a row. 
Freshman Jennifer Dahl was also a double winner for the Irish, winning the 500 and 1650 yard freestyle events in addition to placing second in the 200 yard freestyle. 
"I knew she would swim very well," said Welsh. "She had prepared well for it. She has great spirit, enthusiasm, and drive." 
All the freshmen played a· big part in the victory. In addition to Dahl, Meghan Beeler won the 50-yard freestyle event and 
. Cara Garvey won the 100-yard backstroke event. Colleen Hipp, 

Irish and MCC in scoring with 16 goals and 4 assists (total of 36 pts.) New ND record for most goals and 
in a season ~Lo(:O~d in all-time ND scoring CC 1st team 
• 
MCC Player of the Year 

• 
Scored hat trick against 21 st Cincinnati~ 14, ~ 


Lorreine Horenkamp, Haley Scott, Angie Roby, Amy Bethem, and the rest of the freshmen all contributed to the Irish effort. 
"The freshmen class is one of our strengths," said Welsh. "There was a freshmen on ev­ery one of our winning relays." 
Notre Dame was followed in the standings by LaSalle which finished second and host Boston College which finished third. Fordham, Seton Hall, Providence, and Holy Cr-oss also placed well in the meet. However, the Irish domination was kind of expected according to Welsh. 
"I thought we would probably be the strongest team at the meet. Mainly because we brought probably our fastest team ever and Villanova which finished second in the meet last year was not there," said Welsh. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•There 
will be a meeting for the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame women's lacrosse club on Thursday, Dec. 12 at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 

•Attention 
Rowing Club: Members are reminded that we are taking out the dock this Thursday. Everyone's assistance is needed, and time involved will be minimal. Meet at the Main Circle Thursday at 4:30p.m. for rides. 

•1992 
Bengal Mission Bouts: There will be an informational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall for all interested students. Call Kerry Wate at 283-17 52 if you have questions. 

•Crested 
Butte ski trip: There will be a brief meeting this tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland for those going on the trip. Call Chris Woods at 277-7089 if you have questions. 

•The 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club would like to congratulate the following members who passed their testing on Sunday: Matthew Zinno, Laura Considine, Tony Anderson, Chris Folk, Julianne Gade, Robert Lanchsweerdt, Laura Longo, Doug Minnich, Issa Mesnas, and Marty Phelan. 

•The 
Physical Education volleyball champs are: 10:10-Tom Lillig, Jennifer Tilghman, Michael Hanley, Michael Zilvitis, and Stephen Madden. 1:15-Tim Lapara, Andrew Sebesta, Greg Nordhoff, Nick Schlyer, Jacob Cervantes. 2:20-Mark Lang, Tyler Farmer, Torin Fitton, Matt Lemkuhl, Desiderio Leyba. 


Porter named Observer's women's soccer MVP 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
This season the Notre Dame women's soccer team enjoyed its most successful season ever, as the Irish compiled a 15-2-3 record, won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship and received their first national ranking, peaking at 13th. 
One of the many reasons for this tremendous success was the Observer women's soccer Player of the Year, Stephanie Porter. 
Porter, who is only a sopho­more, led the Irish and the MCC in scoring with 16 goals and four assists for a total of 36 points. These statistics earned her the Notre Dame records for most goals in a season and most points in a season. Currently, she ranks second on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list behind graduating senior Susie Zilvitis. 

She was named to the All­MCC team, as well as earning MCC Player of the Year honors. 
Porter turned in one of her best performances of the year in a 4-0 win over then 21st­ranked Cincinnati, as she recorded her second career hat trick. 
Despite her impressive num­bers, Porter was not the only star on this year's team. Junior goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga set an Irish record and led the MCC with a 0.53 goals against aver­age; she was also named to the All-MCC squad. 
The well-balanced Notre Dame attack had three other players, besides Porter, score 20 or more points: sophomore Alison Lester, freshman Jodi Hartwig and Zilvitis. 
Lester had nine goals and 10 assists for a total of 28 points, and Hartwig scored nine goals and nine assists for 27 points. Both were All-MCC selections. 
Zilvitis capped her spectacu­lar career by netting seven goals and getting six assists for a total of 20 points. 


but now we need your help. If you 
YOU CAl MAKE ,.HE DIFFERENCE 
Wednesday, December 11, 1991 The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPELUNKER 

~12·11 Cl1991 UmverulPnmSyndiCllle 
"Yeah, Vern! You heard what I said! And what are you gonna do about It? Huh? C'mon! What are ya gonna do? Huh? C'MON!" 
JAY HOSLER 


AS 'fO\l CI\N S££., I 
SUR\11\J'i:.D \\NO '('tAl:$ CJr til~ OW!-\ Ccn.I~G 'NiitN I 1-\N) ~ Wf\1<\MENT A~ 
COllt.<3£. 



·"" 
~Sr-.'6 ~0\JQ WJM yj~ '{O'J f\Tt 1\\t.l<~' ':J:) ':M£ F"R.J1E.N mllllN1 ~NOW. Wt>.t"R.ts ft..N\) Gti l\4't S'iR\JP 

GNNtD SOJP 0\fl, ~IlL 'iOJ ~ 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
DOWN Wednesday 
9:30 a.m. • 4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift
1 Autobiography form 
sale. Consourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of
2 Supervise 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
3 Shoe parts4 Of the weather 5 Eggs 
10 a.m. • 5 p.m. Saint Nick's Christmas Bazaar. Lobby,
6 1969 NBA MVP, 
LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Student
----Unseld 
7 "-of the Government Board, Saint Mary's College. Ancient Mariner" 8 WWII buy (2 wds.) 
7:30p.m. Dimensions in Jazz. 1\vo NO Big Bands. Koons
9 Deposited in layers 
Band Building. 
10 Geller of psychicfame 11 Capable of being 8 p.m. Saint Mary's College/Notre Dame Wind Ensemble 
split 
Concert. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by
12 Fenrnes ­
music department, Saint Mary's College. 
13 As -night15 Most up-to-date19 Uncover shrewdly
(2 wds.) 22 1968 NL "Rookie of the Year" 
23 Miss Baca11 LECTURES 
25 Watch chains 28 Passover meals 32 Funera1 hymn 
Wednesday
34 South African fox 35 Ballet (2 wds.) " 3:3~ P:m. Aerospace and mechanical engineering seminar:
36 More disgusting 
Prediction of Turbulent Boundary Layer Development in the
37 Scholarly
38 Ailment of P~ese?ce ~f ~o-Dimensional Obstacles," Hani Hassan Nigim, ~Edward Julius Cnllegiate CW8727 swinrners B1rze1t Umvers1ty, West Bank. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of 
40 Old song, "I Love 
Engineering. Sponsored by aerospace and mechanical ACROSS " engineering.
41 More placid 
• 1 Site of 1980 29 Distributes, with 52 Mongo1 tent 42 Tickets 
11 0Ut 11 54 Buenos -44 Donkey in "Winnie-MENUOlympics the-Pooh"7 Abrupt rejection 30 Compass point 55 Surround 48 Thinks13 Pass on to another 31 Habituated 57 Component of 
33 Optimum gasoline 50 Alluded to Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
person

14 Spanish or portu-34 Certifies, as a 59 Terminates a 53 Sheet.music symbol
56 English course, for
guese college layoff Spinach & Cheese Grilled Chicken Breast 
16 Miss Earhart, et al. 36 French for islands 60 Moves, as a short Tortellini w/Mushrooms 
Jumbo Burgers
17 High-fashion dealer 39 Prefix for sexual hairline 57 Telephone-dial 
40 Viper 61 Hate trio Baked Orange Roughy Vegi Crepe w/Oriental Sauce 
18 Composer Ned ---­
43 Stop 62 Pit-removing 58 Shoe width Sirloin Steak Sandwich Deli Bar
19 Ward off 
20 Workshop item 45 Norway's name for device 21 Attractive and 
itself cuddly 46 ----soup 24 Tarnish, as a 47 ----Abdul-Jabbar 
reputation 49 Secondhand autos 26 Exist (2 wds.) 27 Sorrow 
51 Mr. Gershwin 

Its a Wontferju{ Life Thursday  ~  *.52l Christmas Story Friday & Saturd -~y  
8 & 10:30 PM  

CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION: $2 


Sports 

page 20 Wednesday, December 11, 1991 
Men's hoops travels to Boston to face 5-0 Eagles 

-
... 
Threatt makes Magic's loss more bearable for L.A. 
When Magic Johnson announced his retirement due to testing positive for the HIV virus, it was just the first of many surprises involving NBA point guards this season. 
Many thought the Lakers would crumble without Magic. However, such has not been the case. Not only Mike Scrudato 
Sports Copy Editor 
have they played well, but they have 
exceeded preseason expectations, leading the Pacific Division with a 13-6 record. 
One of the reasons for this has been the play of Magic's replacement at the point, Sedaele Threatt, who L.A. picked up during the off-season from the Seattle SuperSonics. Scheduled to be an understudy, Threatt has emerged as one of the Lakers' leaders, averaging 13.7 points and 7.3 assists per game. Even with the recent loss of Vlade Divac to a back injury, the Lakers continue to win. 
Meanwhile on the East Coast, ex-Laker coach Pat Riley has the Knicks playing their best basketball since 1988-89, when Rick Pitino was at the helm. 
The Knicks' success has a lot to do with the reemergence of point guard Mark Jackson. Jackson, a former Rookie of the Year and All-Star, had virtually rotted on the bench for the past two seasons. 
However, Riley has done something that the previous two Knick coaches, Stu Jackson and John MacLeod, had been unable to do. He has gotten his point guard to play up to his potential without showboating. The result is the Knicks are in second place in the Atlantic Division, a game behind the Celtics, and Jackson is averaging 7.9 points and 7.4 assists per game. 
Meanwhile, the point guard who plays across the Hudson River from Jackson, the Nets' Kenny Anderson, has been this year's biggest disappointment. 
Last season, Net fans finally had something to cheer about as forward Derrick Coleman won the Rookie of the Year award, and when the Nets drafted Anderson this year, it looked as if Seton HaU might not be the only winning basketball team playing in the Meadowlands Arena. 

However, it was not to be. Anderson held out until the opening week of the season, when he signed a $14.5 million contract which put the Nets over the salary cap. 
This move has hurt both the Nets and Anderson. The Nets are playing with only 11 players to stay under the cap, and Anderson's youth and inexperience are showing. Thus far, he has spent more time on the bench than on the floor. 
Maybe Anderson should not have left Georgia Tech after only two years. Maybe the Nets should have taken Billy Owens or 
see POINT I page 17 
Russell, Taylor give Irish hope as they try for two wins in a row 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Two hundred years ago, a man named Paul Revere kept New Englanders alerted to a possible British invasion of the American colonies. 
But this evening's Fighting Irish visit to Chestnut Hill, Mass., is unlikely to raise any such hulaballoo outside of the 9,681-seat Conte Forum, home of the Boston College Eagles. 
Cold-shooting Notre Dame upped its record under first­year coach John MacLeod to 1­3 with a 71-66 come-from-be­hind road win over Valparaiso Monday night. 
The 0-3 Irish start prior to defeating Valpo was the worst in the 8 7 -year history of the program. 
Perhaps worse, the poor start could not come at a more diffi­cult time for Notre Dame, whose game against Boston College is the second of a record-long nine game road swing, the likes of which has not been seen by an Irish team since the 1922-23 season. 
Yet after the play of freshmen Malik Russell and Billy Taylor against Valparaiso, MacLeod has reason to be optimistic. 
"Taylor was on fire," said Irish senior LaPhonso Ellis, re­flecting on the team's first win. 
On the night, Taylor was 8-of­11 from the field, hitting key shots to preserve Notre Dame's inaugural win of the MacLeod era. Russell, meanwhile, shot two-of-five while pulling down five rebounds and dishing out five assists. 
Russell also blocked a shot and registered a steal. 
The Eagles, meanwhile, are undefeated, and a win tonight would give them back-to-hack victories over Notre Dame for the first time ever. 
Last season, Boston College edged the Irish 79-77 at the ACC. Six-foot-three guard Howard Eisley canned a 15-foot jumper With time winding down to seal the win for the Eagles. 
On their last trip to Boston, however, it was the Irish who came away with the victory, 80­
67. In that game, Keith Robinson keyed the Notre Dame effort, going five-of-five from the field and hitting all of his 11 free throw attempts for a 21­point showing. 
After season-opening exhibi­tion wins over Marathon Oil and Canada, the Eagles ripped through the New England states for a 5-0 start. The Eagles' wins came over Brown, Brooklyn, New Hampshire, Harvard and Hofstra. 
Tonight's game will be tele­vised on ESPN, with tipoff slated for 8 p.m. Eastern time. 

Fiebelkorn, Peters share MVP honors Co-Players of the Year lead volleyball team to 26-1 0 mark 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Junior Jessica Fiebelkorn (11) earned Observer Co-Player of the Year honors along with freshman Christy Peters. Fiebelkorn made the all-tournament teams at the MCC Championships and the NIVC's. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Throughout the year, one of the Notre Dame volleyball team's primary strengths was its balance. 
No one player dominated the statistics, and it seemed as if a different person would step forward each match to give the Irish a timely lift as they racked up a 26-10 record, their best mark since the 1987 season. 
It's only fitting then that the 1991 Observer Player of the Year award would go to not one, but two athletes. Junior Jessica Fiebelkorn and fresh­man Christy Peters received the honor on Monday at the annual· volleyball banquet. 
Fiebelkorn, a 5-foot-10 mid­dle blocker from Osseo, Minn., 

• Women's soccer I page 18 
returned l'rom a stress fracture suffered midway through last season to lead Notre Dame in digs (425), blocks (186) and take second in kills (347). 
She set new career highs against California at the National Invitational Volleyball Championships in digs (33) and kills (21) in helping the Irish come back from two games down to win the match and reach the championship round. 
"She's a very dynamic player," said fellow junior Alicia Turner. "We knew that if the ball was sent into the middle, she'd do something smart with it." 
"I didn't know what to expect coming off my injury," added Fiebelkorn. "I progressed nicely throughout the year, but to­wards the middle of the season, I had some doubts about whether I was tapping my po­tential. 
"I spent the year gaining con­fidence after being hurt last year, learning to have fun and to love the game again." 
It was at that midpoint of the season that Fiebelkorn really showed what she was capable of. After missing the Akron match, she came back for the fmal 16 matches of the season and averaged 13.2 kills and 
15.3 digs down the stretch, earning first-team All-MCC honors in the process. 
Fiebelkorn especially shone in pressure situations, making the all-tournament teams at the Southwest Missouri State Invi­
see MVP I page 17 










