
~,.~&~t .g.~. 
IIU·I9U 


server
SISQUIC INTI NNIAL 

Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 43 THURSDAY I OCTOBER 31' 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/John Rock 

Pumpkin point 
As part of Notre Dame's Halloween traditions, the Great Pumpkin Bandit made sure that "Number One Moses" was not without cos­tume by placing a pumpkin on his notorious pointer. 

National recognition is given to ND freshman Matt Jachim for invention 
By CHRISTOPHER HANIFIN 
News Writer 
An invention conceived by a Notre Dame freshman may one day greatly reduce the hazards involved in surviving a natural disaster. 
"It's basically a motion sen­sor," said Matthew Jachim of Carroll Hall, about his inven­tion. "When triggered by the vi­brations from an earthquake or a tornado it would shut off the gas, electricity and water. This would greatly reduce the risk of explosions or electrocution." 
Jachim, who constructed the device as a high school science project, was nationally recog­nized for his invention by the Foundation for a Creative America last week. 
After claiming first prize for the Southern Indiana region in a competition run by the Foun­dation, Jachim said, he forgot about his project for a while. 
"I put everything in a box and put it in the physics storeroom and said 'That's that.' Then all of a sudden I received a letter of congratulation saying I was a national winner," Jachim said. 
"There were about nine cate­gories (in the competition) ranging from photography to sport and games innovations. Mine won the new technology category," he explained. 
The competition brought Jachim to Washington, D.C. during fall break. John "J.J." Portal, Jachim's high school physics instructor, was honored for assisting Jachim with his invention. 
Once in Washington, "We went on a bunch of tours. The event culminated Saturday night with a gala in the llousn of Representative's Caucus Room, "said Jachim. "Dr. Seuss would have been there to re­ceive a lifetime achievement award had he not passed away." 
"Right now, I'm working on a patent. This could cost between $1500-$3000," said Jachim about his immediate plans. 'Tm hoping I can find a company to back me in the future." 
Potential backers might in­clude 3M or Digital, who spon­sored the competition, Jachim said. He said he hopes to pur­sue a career in medicine. 
Transition is aided to year 2000 

By KATHY MASSA 
News Writer 
A 100-member colloquy of faculty and students will spend the next 18 months developing a report to assist the Univer­sity's transition to the year 2000. 
"Colloquy for the Year 2000" will determine the priorities and needs of the University in order to adapt to the ever­changing world, according to University President Father Edward Malloy. 
The colloquy will address ev­ery major aspect of university life, making it more broad than past self-reviews and reports, Malloy said. The Pace report and the Coup report, conducted over the past two decades, fo­cused specifically on academic life and the University's finan­cial campaigns. 
"The uniqueness of the collo­quy is that it looks above and beyond the every-day processes of the University," Malloy said. lt seeks to "review the present reality that is Notre Dame and, bearing in mind its distinctive Catholic mission and heritage, identify the most appropriate steps to take to realize our vi­sion for its future," he said in a press release. 
The colloquy consists of four committees of faculty, adminis­tration and a "representative cross section of students," Malloy said. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara chairs the committee on aca­demic life. Executive Vice Pres­ident Father E. William Beauchamp will chair the committee on finances, univer­sity relations and athletics. Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara will chair the committee on student life. 
In addition to chairing the committee that will organize and write the final report, Mal­loy will also chair the commit­tee on mission, opportunities and challenges. 
Topics of discussion among the committee members of the c.olloquy include graduate and undergraduate education, in­ternational education pro­grams, social service, academic life, and Notre Dame's rela­tionship with other institutions of higher education. The Uni­versity's role in the nation and in the world, as well as numer­ous other aspects of "the big picture that is Notre Dame," will also be examined, Malloy said. 
The report will assign "dollar targets" for financing key issues facing the University in the future, Malloy said. 
The colloquy's final report will be presented in May 1993. This report will serve as a pro­file of Notre Dame's future identity, Malloy said. 
Air pollution exceeding federal standards exists in nearly 100 cities 
WASIIIN<;TON !APJ -Nearly 100 urban arP.as have air pol­lution P.xeneding federal stan­dards, and many will need to lakt! strong measures such as using elearwr gasoline or con­trolling industrial emissions to dean the air, the Environmental Protection Agency said Wednesday. 
The EPA's identification of areas with the worst air pollu­tion givt~s notice to state and local authoritins who will have to imposn new pollution con­trols under the Clean Air Act passnd by Congress last year. 
Thn communities have three to 20 years to eome into com­pliance, depending on the sfwerity of the pollution. 
Many of the worst air quality problem amas such as southern California have been on the EPA's noncompliance list for years. But in some, the dirty air has drifted farther into rural counties. 
The EPA found 98 urban ar­eas, somfl stretching across parts of several states, exceed­ing the maximum allowable levels for ozone, the primary component of smog. Forty-two areas were found not to meet federal standards for carbon monoxide and 71 areas ex­ceeded federal maximums for dust and other particulates. 
To come into federal compli­ance under the Clean Air Act, state and local authorities will have to take a variety of pollu­tion control measures, depend­ing on the severity of the pollu­tion, EPA ollicials said. 
While states have consider­able leeway on how to clean up the air, the measures are likely to include a broad array of pollution reduction measures such as requiring cleaner­burning gasoline, tighter tailpipe emission standards for automobiles, the use of alterna­tive motor fuels for fleets, tougher vehicle inspections, re­quired employer-sponsored ride-share programs and con­trols on emissions from such businesses as bakeries, dry cleaners and breweries. 
While most of the pollution controls are aimed at reducing ozone and carbon monoxide pollution, the EPA said that some of the communities that do not meet dust and particu­late standards may have to take other measures such as imposing restrictions on wood burning stoves or controls on road dust. 
EPA Administrator William Reilly said the new pollution controls are expected to be phased in "over the next couple of years" in most of the pollu­tion problem areas. "The effect of these measures ... will mean healthier air for more Ameri­cans to breathe," he said in a statement. 
Of the nearly 100 areas not meeting the ozone standard, only the Los Angeles-South Coast Basin area is ranked as having "extreme" pollution, the worst category. The area has until the year 2010 to come into compliance. 
Areas classified as having "severe" air pollution are San Diego and Ventura County in California; the Baltimore metropolitan area; an urban stretch that includes Philadel­phia and 13 surrounding coun­ties; the Houston-Galveston­Brazoria area of Texas; New York and surrounding areas of Connecticut, Long Island and New Jersey; the Chicago-Gary­Lake County areas of Illinois and Indiana; and Milwaukee­Hacine in Wisconsin. 
The allowable levels of pollu­tion vary for each pollutant. The federal maximum for ozone is 0.12 parts per million, for carbon monoxide, 9 parts per million, and for particulates 50 micrograms per cubic meter. 
The EPA nmking is pegged to how far an area exceeds the federal ozone level. "Marginal" communities are only slightly over the federal benchmark while some "serious" and "extreme" areas have pollution more than double the standard. 
The five categories and their ozone pollution levels in parts per million are: marginal (0.121 to 0.138), moderate (0.138 to 0.16). serious (0.16 to 0.18), severe (0.18 to 0.28) and extreme (above 0.2S). 
ThP. EPA earlier this year es­timated that while the overall air quality improved in the 1980s, more than 84 million people continued to Jive in ar­eas where the air does not meet at least one of the federal stan­dards. 
The Clean Air Act passed by Congress last year requires smog-causing pollution to be cut by 15 percent within six years and 3 percent annually after that until the federal standards are met. 
California has adopted the most stringent pollution control measures. induding a re­quirement for the phase-in of thousands of alternative fuel automobiles by the end of the decade. 
This week, nine eastern states -Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New !-lamp­shire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia -as well as the District of Columbia indicated they would adopt the California program. 

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Halloween is a Darwinian fight­for-survival 
Forget about ghosts and  
goblins. Halloween is all  
about competition.  
It's true. The holiday is  
more  than  begging  
strangers for candy and  
watching parents inspect  
the loot with a magnifying  Monica Yant  
glass.  It's  a  giant  
Darwinian test of strength  News Editor  

and creativity, a survival-'--------­of-the-fittest contest for costume makers of all ages. 
Think back to elementary school and the weeks before Halloween. The mortal fear o normalcy ran rampant: If you were going to have to wear the damn thing all day long, it had better be the best, most unique creation ever. 
My best friend always went as a baseball player (Boring). Others could be counted on to be Casper the Ghost (Trite), a hobo (Yawn), or the trusty Gypsy (Noisy, but lame). 
Not me. I subscribed to the quest for greatness in the costume arena. I would prevail. I would wear the coveted construction paper crown for best costume and be the envy of my fellow classmates. 
The costume to end all costumes had to be my first grade garb. I went as a human picnic. 
The idea wasn't new. In fact, it was actually a tradition that was started years before when my mom went as a picnic. We'd do it better, she said. 
Starting with a plastic red and white checked table cloth, we went to work. Paper plates, Styrofoam cups (pre-Earth Day) and utensils were attached appropriately, in a place setting for four. 
The menu was, after all, a picnic. So we cut out hamburgers, hotdogs and other edibles from construction paper and attached them to the plates. And sparing no cost for authenticity, my picnic even had black paper ants. 
A hold was cut for my head, and my picnic poncho was complete. The picnic basket, large enough for treats for my whole class, was an added touch. 
Needless to say, I was a six-year old stud. 
Eighteen years later, nothing's different. Although the costumes have changed, the competition remains. 
The collegiate quest for costume greatness is even intensified by the fact that we're older, and supposedly, wiser. Our costumes must not only be great, but cleverly great. They must make people think. 
College students get more than cerebral with their costumes. They get downright sexual. Tying in perversity with current events, a friend has convinced me that four of us will wreak havoc and take all honors as "Long Dong Silver and His Crew of Seamen." 
Tonight should be no different than any other Halloween. People will try to impress each other with their artistic talents and dirty minds. It might be harder to call a winner, but someone always comes out on top. After all, it is a competition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Lauren Aquino Ann Marie Hartman  Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  
Sports Rich Szabo  Viewpoint Rich Riley  
Graphics Brendan Regan  Business Colleen Gannon  
Ad Design Molly Belden Kathy Benz JP Thole  Accent Jahnelle Harrigan Patrick Moran Fran Moyer  

----------------~--­
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, October 31, 1991
The Observer 

FORECAST: 

Today will be cloudy to partly sunny with showers possible. The high will be 52 with lows dipping into the 30s. Friday may be cloudy with a high 
of 50. 

TEMPERATURES: City H l Athens 61 55 Atlanta 69 52 Berlin 45 30 Boston 53 42 Chicago 70 42 Dallas-Ft.Worth 65 45 Denver 27 16 Detroit 63 56 Honolulu 87 71 Houston 90 64 Indianapolis 79 62 London 57 52 
Los Angeles 70 53 Madnd 66 48 M1ami Beach 84 75 New Orleans 83 71 New York 54 41 Paris 54 48 Philadelphia 58 38 Rome 68 55 St. LOUIS 71 38 San Francisco 67 55 Seattle 46 32 South Bend 50 36 Tokyo 68 56 Washmgton, D.C. 59 37 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Volunteers keep Detroit fire-free 
•DETROIT-Thousands 
of volunteers carried fire extinguishers through the streets and police helicopters thundered overhead as the city utilized its ground and air defenses against Devil's Night arsonists Wednesday night. Officials imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew to clear the streets of youths under age 18 and minimize the fires that annually besiege the city on the eve of Halloween. Fluorescent green fire trucks patrolled many neighborhoods. A barn located behind a ~ouse on the city's far east side was gutted by a fire m the early evening. A firefighter who refused to give his name said the blaze appeared suspicious. 

•WAS 
INGTON-Defense Secretary Dick Cheney lambasted Congress on Wednesday for demanding more cuts in the Pentagon budget as lawmakers re­fused to accept reductions atltactiinl! their home districts. "I canno maintain the same sized force we have had for the last 40 years. be given less money and be expected to maintain the same quality force," Ch­eney said in an address to the American Logistics As­sociation. "Congress is bound and determined to per­petuate the notion that we can do that." In particular, the defense secretary complained that while he has been told by Congress to slice the active duty force by 521,000-or nearly one quarter ofits size-he's been barred from cutting the numbers of the National Guard and Reserve forces that support those units. 



OF INTEREST 
•on-campus students who have received duplicate mailings of du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures are asked to return extra copies to the Office of Student Affairs, 315 Administration Building. 
•student 
telephone directories for off-campus students are available for pick up in the Student Government Office on 2nd floor, La Fortune. 

•Notre 
Dame Ski Club/Team will hold an important 


MARKET UPDATE 

Dru~offers hope for AIDS' victims 
•NE YORK -An experimental drug shows promise as a treatment for the AIDS-related cancer Kaposi's sarcoma and may also be useful against breast cancer and other malignancies, scientists say. Tests with mice show that the drug, called SP-PG, can prevent the formation of the purplish tumors caused by Kaposi's sarcoma, researchers said Tuesday. The drug blocks the growth of blood vessels, which is a key step in the development of Kaposi's sarcoma tumors and in the spread throughout the body of other cancer tumors, said Robert Gallo of the National Cancer Institute. Gallo declined to discuss details of the findings until they are published in a scientific journal. But at a scientific conference in Switzerland two weeks ago, he reported that the drug had blocked the formation of Kaposi's sarcoma lesions in mice and in experiments with cells in culture dishes. 
WORLD Basic foods shortage in Siberia 
•TYUMEN, U.S.S.R. -It's not even winter yet and Siberians say they can't even find basic staples in Russia's biggest oil-producing region, an ominous sign considering officials' worries that shortages could spark unrest. "There has been no sugar since June and no matter where you go or how hard you try, you still can't get any," said Valentina Klebnikova, an office worker in Tyumen, a city of about half a million people 1,050 miles east of Moscow. The situation is worse elsewhere in the province. In Nizhnevartovsk, 500 miles to the northwest, long lines form as soon as word spreads of the increasingly irregular bread deliveries. On his lunch break, Valentin Kiselev stopped briefly in a meat and fish store. 
meeting at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater in La Fortune. If you have any questions, call Chris 277-7089. 
•Mass 
of Thanksgiving for past and present benefactors, faculty and staff at 3 p.m. today. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will be the celebrant in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

•computer 
Expo on Friday from Noon to 5 p.m. in Stepan Center. An exhibition of computer technology open to students, parents, faculty and staff. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1909: A West Point cadet was injured in a football game against Harvard, then died, prompting the cancellation of the annual Army-Navy game. 

• 
In 1932: President Franklin Roosevelt urged a five-day 


week and federal aid for the unemployed. 
• 
In 1946: Chilean President Videla uphelds a pledge to give Cabinet seats to three Communists. 

•In 
1969: A gunman took a plane from San Francisco to Rome in the first transatlantic hijacking. 

•In 
1974: The Chinese confirmed rumors of the death of former chief of state Liu Shaochi. 


Thursday, October 31, 1991 The Observer 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Keeping well 
Saint Mary's juniors Rosie Leonard, Tina Buchanan and Fahmina Hussain (left to right) educate 
themselves as to keeping healthy this winter at the Wellness Center. 
Happy Birthday 

Daniel 
~ 


1 from family & friends in Texas 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Swe, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Please support. 
+~SCr:! 

page 3 
SAB discusses success of Fall Fest activities 
By JEANNE DEVITA 
News Writer 

The Student Activities Board (SAB) discussed the success of the Fall Fest activities at a meeting last night. 
"So far it's been great," said Vice-President of Student Af­fairs, Meg McGowan. Atten­dance at the pumpkin carving on Monday night and the Inter­national Party was "great," ac­cording to members of SAB. Students were crowded into see the Club Tuesday storyteller. 
The Board proposed a hayride and bonfire with a pos-
Special to The Observer 

Due to the Sesquicentennial Parade on Friday, Notre Dame Avenue will be closed to all traffic from Dorr Road at the Main Gate to Howard Street between 4 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. Additionally, Dorr Road will be closed from the Main Gate at Notre Dame Avenue to Juniper Road. During this time, access to the central campus will be available only via the East Gate at Juniper Road. Those leav­ing campus from faculty and visitor parking areas near the stadium and University Club should enter the COl Lot near sible murder mystery game and guitar player for later this fall. SAB also voted to hirn a graphic artist to design a logo for SAB 
to  be  used  on  all  publicity  
material.  
Construction of the  SMC float  

for the Homecoming Parade was in progress during the meeting last night. 
The Board hopes to attract members of the South Bend community to the presentation on John Fitzgerald Kennedy to be given by Jack Gordon in the coming weeks. Gordon's fee will be donated to charity, so SAB voted to charge an admission price of $1.00. 
Weekend parking may cause problems for visitors 
the Alumni Senior Club from Old Juniper Road and exit the lot to Juniper Road. 
Parents and other guests ar­riving on Friday afternoon to attend the Parade and/or Pep Rally should plan to park south of the J.A.C.C. 
University security and South Bend Police personnel will be positioned to direct traffic along the parade route. Heavy traffic is expected on campus and adjacent roadways Friday afternoon. Allow extra time when traveling to or from the University. Plan to use alter­nate routes during the time of the parade. 
Senate approves major civil rights bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate overwhelmingly ap­proved a major civil rights bill Wednesday that President Bush has agreed to sign. It expands the rights of sexual discrimina­tion victims to sue and negates a series of Supreme Court rul­ings on job bias. 
The bill now goes back to the use, which has already ap­oved a similar measure. use Speaker Thomas Foley 
the House will take up the ill early next week and pre­icted, "The House will likely 
approve the Senate action." The Senate approval, on a vote of 93-5, came after three 
of haggling over a series of amendments. Senators ac­cepted changes that would ap­ply the bill's job protections, and those of other anti-discrim­ination laws, to their employ­ees. 
In addition, the Senate agreed 
to require its own members to ay any judgments in such ases out of their own pockets. 
Senators voting "no" were uu,uu•cd.1.11> Dan Coats of Indi­a, Robert Smith of New 
ampshire, Jesse Helms of Carolina, Steve Symms of 
o and Malcolm Wallop of Wyoming. Not voting were Democrats Robert Kerrey of Nebraska and Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania. 
The legislation has been in the works for two years, since the Supreme Court issued sev­eral rulings in 1989 that made it more difficult for victims of 
bias to win lawsuits against employers. _ 

The bill had been stalled until a compromise agreement last week by Senate leaders of both parties and Bush. 
That agreement laid to rest the politically charged debate over hiring quotas, which Bush had said earlier versions of the bill would encourage. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., hailed the vote as "a re­
sounding  victory  for  civil  
rights."  
Senate  Minority  Leader  

Robert Dole, R-Kansas, who brought the administration and Senate sponsors to the bargain­ing table last week, said the compromise "is the only way out of the civil rights quagmire, without producing quotas." 
Democrats voiced complaints over the bill's limits on the amount of damages that can be awarded to victims of sexual discrimination cases, although the bill still represents a major expansion of their rights. Kennedy said he would sponsor a separate bill to remove those limits. 
The agreement with Bush averted a second threatened veto. A year ago, the Senate sustained Bush's veto of a simi­lar bill by a single vote. 
Before a final vote, the Senate approved a bipartisan amend­ment applying the job protec­tions in the rights bill, as well as those in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, age discrimination and disabled-rights laws to its own employees and to most political appointees of the executive branch. 
It first accepted a modifica­tion to that amendment requir­ing senators to pay any judg­ments out of their own pocket. 
That change was offered by an opponent of congressional coverage, Sen. Warren Rud­man, R-N.H.. and was accepted after the Senate rejected, 7 4­23, a motion to table or kill the change. 
Senate Majority Leader Ge­orge Mitchell condemned Rud­man's move as a "poison pill amendment." 
The Senate voted by voice to accept the amendment on Sen­ate coverage, which was spon­sored by Mitchell and Sen. 
Charles Grassley, R-lowa. It first narrowly voted to kill. 54-42. another proposed change that would have subjected senators to punitive damages in dis­crimination cases. 
Rudman argued against con­gressional coverage, contending that allowing appeals to the courts by Senate employees would violate the Constitution's separation-of-powers provision. But the Senate rejected, 76-22, a procedural motion that the amendment was un­constitutional late Tuesday night. 
Although the fair-employment protections would apply to Se­nate employees, the enforce­ment method would be diiTerent from other workers. For Senate employees, the amendment would establish an independent panel to decide job-discrimina­tion complaints, and provide for appeals to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for a hearing by a judge. 
In addition to Senate employ­ees, the measure covers White House employees and other government workers who had been exempted from civil rights statutes. 
The Senate bill would not cover House employe~s. who al­ready can take job-related complaints to a special board. 
Agreement on the bill itself last week broke a two-year civil rights stalemate that had in­cluded one Bush veto and threats of another. Bush had charged lhe bill would encour­age employers to use quotas in hiring and promotions. 
From the Senate, the bill must go back to the House for concurrence in the Senate's changes. The House overwhelmingly approved a similar bill earlier this year. 
Foley said the House could take up the measure as early as Monday. 
The Observer 

page4 Thursday, October 31, 1991 
Haunted house portrays women Eastern fires damage nearly 80,000 acres
damned for having an abortion 
WHITESVILLE, W.Va. (AP)­lines around some fires, but 
DENNIS, Mass. (AP) -A church-sponsored Halloween haunted house has raised an outcry because of its portrayal of a woman being sent to hell for having an abortion. 
A community group that was to receive profits from the week-long exhibit in the Cape Cod town of Dennis voted Tuesday to refuse the money. 
Inside the haunted house, an actress in a bloody nightgown writhes on a stretcher, scream­ing, "I want my baby. I want my baby. Where's my baby?" Another actor, dressed as a physician, hands the woman a handful of simulated blood and tissue, shouting: "Here's your baby." 
The display was put on by the Victory Chapel Christian Fel­lowship Church, which also has proselytized by inviting summer visitors to rock concerts at which they tell them about the gospel. 
It opened Friday and is scheduled to continue through midnight Halloween. The church is housed in a ware­house, and the exhibit is adja­cent to the sanctuary. 
Visitors under age 13 are not admitted unless with an adult. 
At least one teen-age girl was so shaken by a visit Saturday that she asked to leave, the Cape Cod Times reported. 
"Evidently, a couple of folks who went in there got upset," said church pastor Paul Campo, who planned the exhibit. "We did it so it was scary, we did it so it was a real-life thing. The message is that you have to be responsible for your actions." 
The controversy is drawing larger crowds than organizers had expected, he said, with an estimated 700 tickets sold by Tuesday. 
•. 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
One too many nights awake 
Lara Zureikat, a Notre Dame sophomore, is pictured at the Architecture Building where she has been since Sunday. She has pulled four all-nighters for a project due tonight at midnight. 
Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global investment banking finn headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its financial analyst program. This two-year program offers individuals, from a broad range ofacademic backgrounds, unique insights into the investment banking industry. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representatives for an introduction to the firm and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 The University Club The Main Lounge 6:00p.m. 
Interview Date: February 4, 1992 
For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Betsy Joseph Investment Banking (312)750-3094 
The First Boston Corporation Park Avenue Plaza New York, N.Y. 10055 

Ash settled on cars, joggers donned masks and visibility was reduced further Wednesday as dozens of fires continued to burn in the East. A volunteer firefighter was killed in Kentucky. 
Nearly 400 fires have dam­aged 80,000 acres in West Vir­ginia since Saturday, the Divi­sion of Forestry said. Many of the fires were believed to have been set. 
The sun appeared purplish­orange through the haze Wednesday near this Boone County community about 25 miles south of Charleston, where forest rangers and fire­fighters battled a fire that had burned across 10,000 acres. 
The mountainous terrain made it difficult to get water to the fire line, so firefighters tried to contain the blaze and let it burn itself out. 
"You can't stop it up close. You have to get away and cut rings around it so it doesn't spread. There's no putting out this fire," said Kenneth Dickens of the Coal River Fire Depart­ment. 
Some firefighters have had little sleep since Saturday. 
"Some of them are pretty tired. They've been going for about a week now, and really hard for the past couple of days. They're still out there, though," said Alan Miller, head of fire control for the state Di­vision of Forestry. 
At least 59 fires in West Vir­gmia were still burning Wednesday, Miller said. Fire­fighters had built containment many of those lines had been covered by fallen leaves, au­thorities said. 
No damage to buildings or major injuries had been re­ported in West Virginia. Au­thorities estimated damage Wednesday at more than $20 million. Thick smoke made it difficult to update damage es­timates, Miller said. 
In Kentucky, hundreds of firefighters battled 21 blazes that covered about 2,500 acres on public land, said Jody Eberly, a spokeswoman for the 
U.S. Division of Forestry. About 3,000 acres of private woodlands had burned since the weekend, officials said. 
Near Fleming-Neon, Ky., in southeastern Kentucky, a 19­year-old volunteer firefighter was killed Tuesday night and three others were injured, one critically, authorities said. 
In Tennessee, 300 firefighters worked Wednesday on a 250­acre fire in Cocke County. About 2,000 acres of the Cherokee National Forest have burned in the last week in 20 fires. 
The region has had dry weather for much of the month, but the National Weather Ser­vice said a cold front could bring showers by the weekend. 
In West Virginia, Gov. Gaston Caperton on Tuesday banned all outdoor burning and ordered authorities to watch for arsonists. 
Visibility at Charleston's Yea­ger Airport was reduced to about three-quarters of a mile from the normal 10 miles, said controller Chuck Zielinske. The airport remained open . 
The Department of :Romance Lanqu.ages and. Literatures 
will give departmental placement exams for students who have not taken any prcviou-, placcllll'lll c .\am Ill French or Spauish ,tlld who are not currently enrolled in a Romance Language sequence. Sign up for the exam in the Langual!e Resource Center office-. 20 I O'Shaughnessy Hall, by Friday, November 1 atS p.m. You must bring your i.d. with you to enter the exam room. Exams are scheduled in the Language Resource Center Auxiliary Lab, 250 O'Shag, as follow~: Monday, November 4. French: 8:30-10:00 a.m. and I 0:30 a.m.-noon Spanish: I :30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 5. Spanish: 8:30-10:00 a.m. and 10:30 a.m.-noon French: I :30-3:00 p.m. and 3:30-5:00 p.m. 
Exemption forms and test scores will be available Monday, November 11, in the departmental office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
-~--------~--------~----------------------------------------------"""1 
The Observer 

Thursday, October 31, 1991 page 5 
Atlantic storm creates 1 0-foot ocean waves as well as a snowfall in Texas 
Snow fell as far south as Texas on Wednesday, and the rain-swollen Trinity Hiver poured over its banks in Dallas. A powerful Atlantic storm kept East Coast fishermen in port and hurled 10-foot waves at sandbagged Brooklyn homes. 
A storm dumped so much snow on Colorado that Aspen Mountain planned to open its slopns to skiers on Saturday ­thn earliest opening date in the rnsort's 45-ycmr history. 
".Just batten down the hatches," advised National Weather Servien's Bob Koop­nwiners in Colorado. 
The Coast Guard rescued four men from a sailboat tossed in tlw stormy Atlantic, and was trying to reach three others. A soareh resumed for three huntt~rs missing in a snowstorm in Utah. 
Light snow fell on tlw Texas Panhandle and forncastnrs said up to 4 inchns could fall by Thursday. Tlw snow was prn­endml by heavy rain that moved into south Texas, causing llooding along thn way. 
cn~ws in Dallas pilnd sand­bags along a levee on the over­flowing Trinity River and pre­pared to evacuate residents threatened by flooding. The river rose 9 feet above flood stage. 
Five weather-related deaths have been reported in Texas since Friday. In addition, one couple was injured when light­ning struck their horne. 
In Colorado, the first snow­storm of the season dumped nearly a foot of snow on Den­ver's northwest suburbs and an inch or more elsewhere. 
Heavy snowfall -up to a foot fell in the southern mountains overnight -caused both the Aspen and Vail ski resorts to plan for weekend openings. The central mountains got about 36 inches of snow in five days. 
The storm also brought 5 inches of snow to Cheyenne, Wyo., and bitterly cold air flowed over northern Wyoming. 
Sheridan's low was 9 below zero Wednesday, snapping the date's record low of 1 above set 6H years ago. Lows also dipped to records in North Dakota: in Bismarck, Dickinson, Minot and Devils Lake. Dickinson was the coldest spot, at minus 7 de­grees. 
In northern Wyoming, snow and a lack of clues brought an end to a search for a single­engine plane with three aboard. The plane is believed to have crashed south of Yellowstone National Park two weeks ago. More than a foot of snow is on the ground. 
A search continued in Wasatch County, Utah, for three hunters missing since Sunday. Authorities believe a snowstorm forced the three to take cover in their camper. 
"They're bogged down some­where and the weather is so bad they're staying in their unit -that's what our hopes are," Sheriff Mike Spanos said. 
The storm sent the tides 4 feet above normal along the New Jersey coast, where two of the three thoroughfares into Atlantic City were temporarily closed. 
In the Atlantic, a storm off Nova Scotia buffeted Portland, Maine, with gusts up to 50 mph. Waves swept a fisherman into high seas off Point Judith, R.I. 
Hescuers tried to help three 


9~~~~~~r;w;-,Qr;-;1Qr;-;1QQ;~Q;~IQI;~Q~~r;-,;;~r;-,;;1Q people in a stranded 3 2-foot sailboat south of Nantucket. Mass., but were unable to use a

SENIORS 
helicopter and raft because of rough conditions. Instead, the Coast Guard sent a cutter. 
The Coast Guard had more luck about 300 miles east of Chesapeake Bay, where four
at Senior Bar 
men were plucked from a sail­boat tossed in stormy seas. In New York, choppy waters 
Halloween Bash 
Costume Contest 
and strong wind kept most fishermen in port, and boaters"The Generics" live secured their vessels by adding double lines and tying extra
Free Cups to First 100 People knots. 
"It's very dangerous out there right now," said June Lugowa,
of Montauk Marine Basin on the eastern tip of Long Island. 
~ $2 Donation to Benefit Sr Formal • 
•.t 
The Observer/John Rock 

Hair inspection 
Midshipman Third Class Chris Martino prepares for inspection by getting his hair "buzzed" by ROTC Joe. 
When you gave to United Way, you sent a Friendly Visi­tor volunteer to Eleanor. 
In fact, when you gave to United Way you helped organizations throughout the community help people who need it most. 
And made the life of a 94-year-old shut-in a ~ lot less lonely. 
~ It bringsout the best in 
~--------------~-­
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
Witness will speak out against Gatti 
NEW YORK (AP) -A witness who puts John Gotti near the scene of the assassination of Paul Castellano was secretly brought into a courtroom to identify the reputed mob boss, according to a recently unsealed court document. 
The witness reportedly heard Gotti speak outside a midtown Manhattan restaurant on Dec. 16, 1985, but could not identify a tape recording of Gatti's voice, according to the letter by Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick 
J. Cotter addressed to defense lawyers. 
The letter was filed under seal and recently made public. It does not identify the witness, who is expected to testify at Gatti's federal murder­racketeering trial early next year. 
According to the letter, the witness initially identified Gotti a week after the shooting from a photo album of about 100 different people. The witness identified the reputed mobster from a second set of photographs several weeks later, the letter said. 
In December 1986, law enforcers brought the witness to the courtroom of federal Judge Eugene H. Nickerson, where Gotti was on trial in the government's first racketeering case against him. That trial ended with Gatti's acquittal. 
"The witness recognized one person ... as being the same person the witness had seen in the vicinity of Sparks Steakhouse on Dec. 16, 1985. That person was John Gotti, who was seated at the defense table," the letter said. 
According to a report based on unidentified law­enforcement sources and published Wednesday in the Daily News, the witness saw Gotti in front of the restaurant giving directions to the hitmen just moments before Castellano was slain. 
U.S. Attorney Andrew J. Maloney declined to comment on the News report. 
Authorities said Castellano 
was the head of the Gambino 
crime family, the nation's most 
powerful Mafia organization. 
Gotti and two other reputed 
leaders of the organization are 
to go on trial in January for 
allegedly orchestrating 
Castellano's murder to seize 
control of the powerful crime 
syndicate. 
In another unsealed 
document, the government 
argued for an anonymous and 
sequestered jury, citing past 
allegations of witness and jury 
tampering in other Gotti­
related trials. 
In a motion to U.S. District Judge I. Leo Glasser, prosecutors said the trial of Gatti's brother Gene, a convicted heroin trafficker, was a "textbook example of how jury tampering can occur even with an anonymous jury if it is not sequestered, particularly when the defendants are powerful members of the Gambino family." 
"John Gotti was aware of and authorized the attempt to tamper with his brother's jury," prosecutors wrote. "The Gambino family that he leads has no respect for the trial process, and will tamper with that process at every opportunity, especially in this 
r.afOP " 
Thursday, October 31, 1991
The Observer 

Woman is paralyzed by aircraft evacuation drills 

LONG BEACH, Calif. (AP) ­Forty-four people were hurt, including a woman paralyzed when she fell to a hangar floor, during two evacuation drills from an airliner at Douglas Aircraft Co., authorities said. 
Dorothy Myles, 60, of Long Beach remained in serious con­dition Wednesday at Memorial Medical Center, paralyzed from the neck down, said hospital spokesman Ron Yukelson. 
The woman was among vol­unteers being paid $49 each to take part in drills Saturday from an MD-11 jetliner in a darkened hanger at Douglas Aircraft Co. 
Two others, including Jewell Pinder, were hospitalized with broken ankles. 
"You go down (the evacuation chute) like 100 miles per hour and run into a brick wall," Ms. Pinder said. She was halted by a "hump" at the end of the chute, but no one helped her off and other volunteers slid into her, she said. 
Early reports set the number of injuries between 17 and 21, but a Douglas spokeswoman said 22 other people were treated at the scene by Douglas medical personnel for cuts and scrapes. 
Some people delayed seeking medical attention and later went to hospitals "saying, 'My neck has been hurting since Saturday,'" Douglas
Scary? 

spokeswoman Rene Handler 
Greg Nowak, Notre Dame freshman, is all set to trick-or-treat as he 
said. 

stands ready-to-go in his costume. 


Wednesday International Party 
a multi-cultural food festival 
Haggar Parlor 
7-9 
"This is a test that the Fed­eral Aviation Administration 
SALE 
requires that we conduct to make sure we can evacuate the plane in a certain amount of time," the spokeswoman said of the drills involving the aft evacuation chute on the MD-11 aircraft. 
"It is expected, unfortunately, that you will incur certain in­juries in this kind of test," she said, noting volunteers are told about possible injury and are given information abeut past mishaps. 
Nearly 6 percent of the people taking part in the two drills were hurt. The injury count was lower than expected and was about half the 10 percent to 12 percent injury rate from evacuation drills on the DC-10 jetliner years ago, Ms. Handler said. 
"The number of injuries were well within the FAA and com­pany expectations," she said. 
Douglas had 410 passengers and a crew for the drills. 
Bob Buckhorn, a spokesman for the FAA in Washington, said Wednesday that in order to be certified to carry more passengers, the aircraft had to be evacuated in 90 seconds. He said both drills Saturday took too long and the testing would have to be repeated. 
When the lights were turned on at the end of the second drill, Miss Myles was found at the bottom of one of the air­craft's escape chutes, said Fire Department spokesman Bob Caldon. 
Roger Olson, a materials ana­
lyst with Douglas, broke his 
ankle during the drill. 

IFALL IFEST 
Friday ND Homecoming Parade Come to Goodwill Plaza and Support the SMC Float! 
Thursday Costume Party 
during dinner at the Dining Hall Cash prizes for the Best Costumes! 
All Week: Big Leaf Contest and The Funniest Thing That Happened to Me at SMC Story Contest 

~-Th_u_r-sd_a_y_.-O--ct_o_b-er_3_1_,_1_9_9_1_________________________________T_he__O_b-se_N__er_____________________________________________ 


The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

In the spirit of Homecoming 
Students place the final touches on their float for the Sesquicentennial Homecoming Parade on Friday. Parents of Notre Dame students will be able to enjoy these sites as well on their visit to campus for Parents' Weekend. 
BETA GAMMA SIGMA 
MBA STUDENT ASSOCIATION and the FINANCE CLUB present 
Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer of MARRIOTT Corporation 
I 

-Lecture Topic ­
FINANCIAL POLICIES & STRATEGIES IN THE 90's 
Friday, November 1, 1991 
10:30 A.M. 
a 
Room 122, Hayes-Healy 
~\' 

t~Uj-Jot,ol 11.1 "'"~I .... o\l!!l.ti ... I'HII\1~1' 
l ~~~:·~....... ~.. ·.}!· ~.~·. ~". ~.'""''' ~arnott 
page 7 
Ordination of gays is discussed 

TULSA, Okla. (AP) -The 
Christian Church (Disciples of 
Christ) appointed an interim 
leader Wednesday as it sought 
to recover from the narrow 
defeat of a nominee who 
argued that the Bible doesn't 
forbid the ordination of 
homosexuals. 

The Rev. C. William Nichols, 
64, said it was a difficult 
decision to accept the job as 
acting president and general 
minister of the 1.1 million­
member church, but he 
promised he would be more 
than a caretaker. 

"An interim sort of keeps the 
seat warm until someone else 
comes along to occupy it," said 
Nichols, senior minister of the 
Central Christian Church in 
Decatur, Ill. 

lie will b1~ president until the 
Indianapolis-based church 
presents another nominee at 
the 1993 General Assembly in 
St. Louis. Nichols succeeds 
John Humbert, whose six-year 
term expired Wednesday. 

His appointment was made 
necessary when the Rev. 
Michael Kinnamon fell 87 votes 
short of confirmation Monday. 

Kinnamon, dean of the 
Lexington Theological 
Seminary in Kentucky, 
provoked an uproar within the 
denomination by interpreting 
Scriptures as providing no basis 
for refusing to ordain 
homosexuals. Kinnamon is a 
member of Gay, Lesbian and 
Affirming Disciples. 

Shortly after Kinnamon was 
nominated by an administrative 
committee in February, an 
Indiana church sent its 
"Remington Declaration" to all 
4,105 congregations opposing 
him because of his liberal 
interpretation of the Bible. 

Immediately after Nichols 
was presented as acting 
president, the church delegates 
approved an item that will 
allow a two-year period of 
reflection on homosexuals as 
ministers. 

Because of the study, Nichols declined to give his views about homosexuals, saying only he would try to "effect some understanding and agreement on this issue." 
"Many people have suffered over it," Nichols said. "We need a time of reflection and research. There is a need to remind ourselves of who we are and why we are a church." 
Nichols began as one of 20 candidates of a special committee that spent much of Tuesday paring the list. He received two-thirds of the vote from the 40-member administrative committee on the first ballot. 
A native of Baxter Springs, Kan., Nichols has been senior minister of Central Christian Church since 1973. He previously was a pastor at the Central Christian Church in Kansas City, Kan., and the First Christian Church in Poteau, Okla. 
Because general ministers must be younger than 68 when a six-year term ends, Nichols cannot be nominated in 1993. 
Kinnamon, 42, was one of several members who embraced Nichols as he left the stage Wednesday morning. 
"I said to Michael that I thought this would work out a different way," Nichols said. "Michael said to me that perhaps this is God's will." 
Business 
page 8 Thursday, October 31, 1991 
Bos discusses transitions in East Germany's economy 
By BRENDAN QUINN 
Business Writer 

Unified Germany's handling of the privatization, restructuring and liquidation of East German industries presents the most pressing economic issue confronting the German gov­ernment, said Dieter Bos, pro­fessor of economics at the Uni­versity of Bonn, Wednesday. 
Bos focused on the role of the Treuhandanstalt (THA), "the trust which owns most of the industrial enterprises of East­ern Germany as well as most of its land and forests." 
The THA, created by the German Democratic Republic in 1989, now concentrates on three aspects of the transition of East German industry from public to private ownership: privatization, restructuring and liquidation. 
In 1989 and 1990, this trust labeled one-third of East Ger­man industries viable for priva­tization, the second third ca­pable for restructuring and the final third not viable, said Bos. 
Bos fmds THA's current policy of privatization acceptable. The policy sells or gives away industrial firms to those in­vestors who have the most solid financial resources and the best job guarantee plan, he said. 
The THA has privatized ap­proximately 3000 firms since the signing of the unification treaty in October 1990 to June 1991. 
"Given the ongoing rapid pri­vatization of 1991, the viable (public) firms will have disap­peared by 1993. At that point the Treuhandanstalt will gen­erate a subsidization trust to keep alive non-viable firms," stated Bos. 
The first step to facilitating the process of restructuring and liquidation is to allow the private buyers to restructure the firms to their needs, ac­cording to Bos. 
"I do not think a large state­owned company is a good sys­tem for restructuring. Under political pressure the Treuhan­danstalt would preserve firms that should be liquidated. They would try to preserve jobs," added Bos. 
By passing the burden of re­structuring to the private sector, Bos said that the Treuhan­danstalt can concentrate on its principal task, liquidating obso­lete firms. The German gov­ernment must intercede to in­sure that the THA does not preserve useless companies. 
"By lowering the borrowing limit of the THA and the limit of its deficit, there will be no more need for the THA's existence by the year 2000. 
This decreasing cash inflow will force the THA to close firms and will also signal the com­mitment of the German gov­ernment to liquidate the THA itself, by, say, the year 2000," proposed Bos. 
He warned that the German economy could be plagued by crippling subsidies and an un­deremployed work force in the latter half of the decade if these steps were not taken. 
Bos also serves as the managing editor of the Journal of Economics of Germany, a guest lecturer at the London School of Economics and a consultant to the International Monetary Fund in Washington, DC. 
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Committee for European Studies, the De­partments of Economics, Gov­ernment and International Studies and ISLA sponsored Bos' lecture on "Privatization and the Transition from Planned to Market Economies: Some Thoughts about Germany 1991". 
Federal Reserve lets key rate fall 
Move may be an effort to stimulate economic activity 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The declines. peace conference. Federal Reserve, following Analysts said the drop in sin­Bush administration officials fresh signs of distress in the gle-family home sales was omi­have expressed growing con­
U.S. economy, let a key interest nous given the fact that housing cerns that the economy is fail­rate fall on Wednesday in what is typically one of the leading ing to rebound strongly from many economists interpreted as forces pulling an economy out the 1990-91 recession. They a signal the central bank had of a recession. have stepped up their pressure embarked on a new round of While a second government on the Federal Reserve to do credit easing. report showed that consumer more to stimulate demand by 
The Fed allowed the federal spending rose by 0.9 percent in cutting interest rates further. funds rate, the interest that September, the largest gain Treasury Secretary Nicholas banks charge each other, to fall since March, economists were Brady refused to comment to 5 percent. Many analysts, but not impressed. They said this specifically on what the Fed's not all, saw the development as increase was overshadowed by moves Wednesday meant, but a signal the central bank had a report Tuesday showing that he said he· did believe pushed its target range for this consumer confidence fell in Oc­Greenspan's comments on rate down from its previous tober. Monday indicated a concern level of 5.25 percent in an effort "The economy is looking ab­about the sluggish economy. to stimulate economic activity. solutely terrible," said Robert "I would take that as a 
An easing move had been Brusca, an economist at Nikko statement that it was time to widely expected after the Securities in New York. "The move and move strongly and let gloomy economic reports of re­housing sales number was very the American people know that cent days and comments Mon­weak and consumer confidence the Federal Reserve system day by Federal Reserve Chair­has plunged." joins everybody else in trying to man Alan Greenspan that the President Bush held an eco­do something with the econ­economy was bucking "50-mile­nomic strategy session at the omy," Brady said during a tele­an-hour head winds." White House on Wednesday vised interview on the "Nightly 
On Wednesday, the govern­following his return from Business Report." ment reported that sales of new Madrid, Spain. Presidential In part because of the White homes took their biggest nose spokesman Marlin Fitzwater House pressure, analysts dive in 2 1/2 years, plunging said that Bush wanted an viewed Wednesday's move as a 
12.9 percent in September to a "update session" on economic sign by the Fed that it has seasonally adjusted annual rate developments that occurred nudged the federal funds rate of 446,000. Every part of the while he was attending the down for a 12th time since the country suffered double-digit opening of the Middle East recession began in July 1990. 
Democrats consider tax-speedup plan for rich to pay for new jobless benefits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­months of opposition, it was Bush has favored less gener­gressional Democrats were willing to try to reach a ous coverage. considering speeding tax collec­compromise on extending The Bentsen plan would, in tions from many upper-income benefits for the long-term effect, halt the ability of well-to­people to help finance an ex­jobless. do people with rapidly rising pansion of unemployment bene­Since August, Bush has killed incomes who estimate their fits, lawmakers and aides said two bills passed by Congress taxes to delay paying their full Wednesday. that would have provided up to taxes for a given year until the 
The proposal, advanced by 20 extra weeks of coverage to following April15. Senate Finance Committee people who use up the regular The proposal would not in­Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D­26 weeks of unemployment crease the taxes any individual Texas, was designed to meet benefits. Democrats say that owes. But by collecting taxes President Bush's demands that with or without Bush's support, sooner, the government would the extra benefits not cause an they want to get a similar bill earn $3.2 billion over five years increase in the federal deficit. enacted before Congress ad­because it could reduce its bor­
The plan also would allow journs for the year around rowing, and therefore pay less Democrats to grasp an issue Thanksgiving. interest, the Democrats said. that served them well during last year's budget talks: an in­Late Wednesday, Democrats "We're looking at situations sistence that as a matter of decided they would push for a where people have underesti­fairness, higher-income people $5.6 billion bill with the same mated their incomes for the should be targeted when the benefits package Bush has re­forthcoming year," said government needs more money. jected twice, said one partici­Bentsen. 
pant who spoke on condition of Republicans were non-com­anonymity. People who estimate the taxes mittal about the plan. Sen. Pete they owe can pay either 100 Domenici, R-N.M., a leader in It would provide up to 20 ad­percent of their previous year's the GOP fight over the bill, said, ditional weeks of extra pay­liability, or 90 percent of what "I'm not supporting it or saying ments, and cover most Ameri­they believe they will owe for I wouldn't." cans who used up the standard the current year. If they have 
AP File Photo 
Top Democrats were weighing 26 weeks of benefits between underestimated their taxes,
Congressional Democrats considered the proposal advance by Sena­the proposal just a day after the last March 1 and next July 4, 
they can pay the balance by the 
tor Lloyd Bentsen (above) that targets high-income people when the White House signaled that after the source said. following April 15. government needs more money. 


--------------·----------------------------------------~·--------~----------, 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, October 31, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controtler ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Texas killings merited coverage on page one 
Dear Editor: icy and the expansion of 
I was very saddened to see in Pandora's Books (story printed the Oetober 17 issue of Tho on page 1). We have betrayed Obsnrvor that tho tragic and our own short-sightedness, and horrible deaths of twenty-three we ought to be terribly persons in Tnxas (story printed ashamed. on pagn 5) was judged to be Emily Neufeld loss significant than such issues Lewis Hall as a earnpus non-smoking pol-Oct. 17, 1991 

Dear Editor: retirement at the age of 
Congratulations to Lisa Eaton seventy-seven. Most of his for her sensitivity and eoncern almost fifty years as a priest expressed in her column have been spent in parishes, "Where Could Father Edgar Be especially in this area. where Hiding?" (The Obsnrver. Od.lO, he has been loved by many 1991 ). What a testimony to her people for his sincere and character and personality: gentle, untiring and unassum­indeed, the kind of interest and ing ministry. gratitude, attitudes and values We are all grateful to Lisa and one delights in diseovering other Notre Dame and Saint among members of the Notre Mary's students, faculty, staff, Dame and Saint Mary's and alumni who visit and community! correspond with, express con­
Father Edgar Szymanski, cern and appreciation for our C.S.C., most of the summer and fellow Brothers, Priests, and autumn, has been hospitalized Sisters of Holy Cross. and now seems to be on the road to eomplete recovery. In The Holy Cross Community recent years, he had been Notre Dame and Saint Mary's enjoying a well-deserved Oct. 15, 1991 
DOONESBURY 

{Aj()(){}Y, YOU 
MAY7HINI< THATTHt TRA5HIN60F 
IINITAHfU. 15 (){{fi510N 
FCF. JVI<ES, 
BUT... I 
Y()(Jfl. 51{)£3 7!?Jtl? 70 7RASH 7HOMA'3. IT /?IVN'T ST/0<. If 7}{!3 FD51T/CWS Nt:R& J<e.V!3f?S1311 TH8 f&MINI% fAJO(Jt./? 88 RLJ88/NG OUR 
N(}5{';5 IN IT! 
IAIOODY, 175NOT A GAMe! UIOMtN IA/!51?8 P/f!ef't-YCF­ffl'lf)f3[) 8Y HOW 
fi/U.. tf/AS 7l?MTW.t 
\.---­
More masses are needed on Saturdays 
Dear Editor: church, and when we finally A hall chapel is far too small 
It is early evening, Notre did, it was shoulder-to-shoulder. to fit any significant number Dame beat Pitt, my father carne After deciding we would and the Sacred Heart Church, for the game, and the weather rather breathe, we left to try beautiful though it is, was not was good. All in all, it should and see if the Sorin Hall Chapel constructed to seat (I use that have been a perfect day, but, was any bette.r. What do you word cautiously) a great alas, I am a disgruntled stu­think? We then proceeded to amount of people. dent. The reason for my vexa­the Alumni Hall Chapel-no There is a simple solution to tion lies in the post-game mass way! this jumble. In the same way schedule. By this time, it was well past that the pep rallies have been 
I'd like to relate what hap­five o'clock and we determined moved to the basketball arena pened in the case of my father it would be an act of purest to accommodate a larger num­(Class of '63) and I. After the optimism if we tried to find a ber of people, the post-game game, we met as scheduled, mass where one could actually mass, too, could follow suit and planning to attend mass and eat sit down. I do not see the rea­also be moved into the basket­dinner. We made our way soning behind scheduling only ball arena at the J.A.C.C. across campus expeditiously to nine masses after the game. Anyone and everyone could make the 5:00 p.m. Sacred If one thinks about it, there comfortably fit and the Heart Mass. are over 59,000 fans corning to Celebration of the Eucharist 
We arrived at the church at Notre Dame on a football could then be celebrated prop­approximately 4:10 p.m.. a Saturday, a vast majority of erly, here at the greatest good fifty minutes before the whom are Catholic and would Catholic institution in the world. mass was to start. To our enjoy attending mass after the Gregg Massa dismay, we could barely game. Why then are there so Fisher Hall squeeze into the beautiful few masses scheduled? Oct. 12, 1991 
Degrading posters can be harmful 
Dear Editor: These things are destructive for years, when they are vietirns 
and separate us from God. of men's lustful comments, 
As I deliver newspapers in the Secondly, people tend to treat desires, and acts. The men men's dorms each morning, I the problems of sexual must know that they are held see a lot of rooms and doors harassment and sexual crimes responsible before God for the with posters of naked and near as though they occur in a effects they have on others naked women. I know this is vacuum. This, however, is not lives, and also for the something which is commonly the case. Men condition destructive effect they cause on approved of and joked about, themselves and each other, and their own minds and spirits as but it really is very destructive. are conditioned by the media, they open themselves to "the 
to think lustfully and to be lust of the flesh and the eyes." 
First, and most importantly, driven by lust. there is probably nothing which We must realize that the way can pull a person away from Sexual harassment and all sex is often treated in our God faster than lustfulness. St. other such destructive crimes personal lives and in our Paul said that "The lust of the begin with such accepted things culture is dead wrong and not flesh and the lust of the eyes" as posters on walls, of God, and we are paying and are not of God and that if a pornographic magazines, dirty will continue to pay the price, person loves these things, he jokes, and even the women are especially when it eornes to our cannot love God. exploited in magazine ads and relationships with God and with 
on modern day TV each other. 
Jesus said that if we even look commercials. lustfully at a woman that we Andrew Koehl have already committed Women are constantly being Off-Campus adultery with her in our heart. marred, and the effects can last Oct. 29, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ANf?YOU 7HINI<  me HALF ?HAT LAN'T6er  
7HATJU5TI­ 
FI~YOUR ...  
I  

'Computers are useless. They can only give 
you answers.' 
Pablo Picasso 
$%#*submit! 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. NIJ, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, October 31, 1991 
Affirmative Action not ideal, but still necessary 
I would like to share a few bottom. And I remember that people chromosomes because she memories from the 1950s and And then one day along came who worked with my Dad told knew that blacks weren't peo­
Sue Korlan 

1960s to compare the the federal government and told him to shoot my friends, but my ple. She knew they had no feel­
Guest Columnist 

opportunities for blacks then people to desegregate those mother's a born Yankee and ings and didn't need to be taken with the opportunities today. schools, which locally meant to had a few words of her own to into account in any way. They
friend of mine, his back all full
I grew up in Marshall County, close all the black schools and say on the subject. were there for whites to use as 
of shrapnel from Nam. In his
Kentucky in the Jackson add on to the white ones, And I remember when my they saw fit. 
spare time he told black people 
Purchase. There weren't any because no white person was former pastor was removed 
about African history. I can still
black people in the county be­going to go to a black school. from the diocese after receiving I did my best, but I couldn't 
recall the time when a couple of 
cause they'd all been driven out What a horrid thought! Across death threats for integrating the persuade her otherwise. She 
cops raced up two blocks to tell
at gt:.npoint in the middle of the the river in Cairo, Illinois, the 2 churches to which he'd been had her mind made up and no 
seven of us walking down the
tobacco wars at the beginning White Citizens Council took to assigned, one white and one fact was going to make any
otherwise deserted street that
of this century. But there were the streets with the slogan, black, into one parish in a small difference. No doubt, Paul, you
they didn't like his kind and if
plenty of them in Paducah, "The only good n---is a dead town outside the Purchase. think those were wonderful 
they were him they would get
where the people in the one." And I remember meeting a times of opportunity, real 
out of town. And they won­
Purchase went shopping and And they were armed and fellow Kentuckian who'd been opportunity, for competent
dered if my Mom knew the
where the Catholics from fifty started shooting at blacks who charged with treason for selling black people. But please don't 
company I was keeping.

miles around sent their children were foolish enough to go out his house in a white Bluegrass talk to me about how good
Of course, when someone
to high school. on the streets after dark. That suburb to a black family. He things were in those bad old 
robbed the bank and drove
We could see blacks in the way the black people would allegedly knew that the days, and how black people 
away in a white Chevy, they
grocery stores that were part of know that even if their children neighbors would blow it up, and don't need affirmative action,
questioned him for twenty four
national chains. but not at the shared the same schools, the was thereby attempting to start and how they'd have had it bet­
hours straight. How they ever
better local stores. And the sign black people were still sup­a local race war. ter without federal intervention, 
thought his red Volkswagen bug 
hanging in all the good restau­posed to be subservient to the And I remember the concern because that's a pack of lies. 
turned into a white Chevy and
rants, "We reserve the right not whites. But the whites hadn't of the local sisters when they And if I could just point out,
back remains one of the minor
to serve," meant only whites counted recent population fig­allowed the first black girl to Father Griffin, that decency
mysteries of my life. 

need enter to buy a meal. Black ures or reckoned on the blacks take piano lessons after school didn't take over on its own, as 
But, Paul, he went through all 
people weren't welcome be­arming themselves, because the because the black Catholic ele-though the justice of civil rights, 
the chemical companies in the make the world the kind of
black people started shooting of that and more because he mentary school didn't offer
country decided to put plants place we would both like to live 
there, but there weren't any back in self-defense and for was teaching black people them. They shouldn't have had in. 
years there was a mild about their history and the to worry that even such a small
black people working in them. I know the world that most of 
war going on in the town. value of their background. step as private music lessons
They weren't welcome because the people here grew up in is
Nowadays there aren't many Maybe to you that seems trivial, might endanger their lives or
of the color of their skin. not the world I lived in, thank 
white people left there. but knowledge, especially self­the lives of their students. But
The new lake, the largest God, but that does not make
And I remember a lot of other knowledge, is one of the most was it right to prevent that child
manmade lake in the world be­western Kentucky any less a
things on the way to getting valuable things in this world. If from developing her talents
fore Aswan Dam was built, part of this country. And its
from there to here. Like a you don't believe that, why are because of the color of her
didn't have black people problems are not unique.
friend of mine coming back you here? skin?
swimming in it. They weren't When companies have been
from Nam and being greeted as And I remember dancing one And I remember listening to
welcome because of the color of proven to have discriminated,
he got off of the plane by a night with a black boy I had the older boys in grade school
their skin. And in neighboring the government placed hiring
black friend of his who'd come never met before, who was a talking about what they would
Clinton County, the old share­restrictions on those companies
to take him home. There were a good friend of my best friend. do to any black person stupid
cropping system kept on as it to ensure that they would hire
couple of police officers at the He was shot to death in the enough to attempt to stay in
always had. Black people were the kinds of people they had
airport when he arrived, and public school less than a week Marshall County overnight.
relegated to poverty and inade­previously refused to hire.
they followed the two of them later. Lynch mobs are now a thing of
quate schools everywhere. That's what affirmative action 
as they drove away. And I remember the Vista the past, thank God, but they
That was their place and that is, and it's there because before
That veteran didn't make it volunteers who were teaching weren't back in those golden
is where society had it, blacks were denied jobs be­
fifteen minutes in the states the black people in Clinton days of opportunity, Paul. 
determined they belonged and cause of the color of the skin.
before they'd beaten him un­County how to register to vote And I remember trying to ex­
they knew that if they tried to It's not ideal, but it is certainly
conscious. He received eight and how to raise themselves out plain to one of my fellow high
change things they would be better than the alternative. 
days in jail for resisting arrest of the cycle of poverty they lived school students that blacks
killed. And it didn't matter how 
(For what, you ask? Integrating, in. People went by and shot up were human beings rather than
competent they were or how Sue Korlan is a master's stu­capable they were, they stayed of course). the place where they were apes. She wouldn't accept the dent in Theology at the 
in their place in society, on the And then there was another living. scientific evidence based on 
University ofNotre Dame. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Scriptures reveal to us that God's will is self-control, not birth control 
Dear Editor: Word for our lives says a lot and to virtue knowledge; and to to say no to sin and to bail out. gets all worked up passionatelyLooking at Thursday's letter about sex. The Old and New knowledge, self-control and to God has given Christians His and then his partner says, "I've 
(The Observer, Oct. 10) con­Testaments give commands and self-control, godliness... " (2 Holy Spirit, the third Person of got AIDS.") cerning condoms being all right illustrations of how sex used Peter 1: 4-6). Another place, the Trinity, to give Christians I don't see Jesus advocatingin certain circumstances shows outside of marriage can ruin "For this is the will of God even strength in those weakening condoms or birth control to the an argument based on human and harm lives and marriages. your sanctification, that you times. (1 Corinthians 10: 13) adulterous woman. He simplyfeelings and reason. Since a lot is said about sex, should abstain from sexual sin." God also expects Christians to said, "Go and sin no more." 
then men and women must (1 Thessalonians 4: 3) avoid places where they know (John 8: 11)
Mr. John Blakey argues have times where it is difficult they could sin. (1 Thessalonians against the Catholic Church's to control their passions. Finally, "But the fruit of the 5: 22) One place could be par­When we get to the placeposition that says that condoms Spirit is love, joy, peace, pa­ties. where "A" -God's will is re­
compromise Catholic values. Having sex drives are normal tience, gentleness, goodness, fused and "B" -my will is done, Why does the Church believe and proper, however God re­faith, meekness, self-control..." The Holy Spirit of God will then all we can expect is "F" ­this? It is because the leaders quires all Christians to control (Galatians 5: 22-23) It doesn't produce in a Christian's life failure in our lives, either in this of the Church are mean and do their passions and reserve them matter what I think, nor what love, not lust; joy, not happi­life or the life to come when we not want their young people to for that one special person who the Church thinks, but simply ness; peace, not turmoil and so stand before God. God's will is enjoy pre-marital sex? Are they will become their respective what God thinks. on. If one loves another, that best for peace and joy in our like the serpent in the garden spouses. God's will is self-con­Now if God says not to have one will show self-control. If lives: self-control not birth 
saying that God is holding back trol, not birth control. pre-marital sex and says to re­we want the best for the one we control. fun, pleasure and knowledge serve it for your mate, then God love we'll wait until marriage.from you? Scripture says, "Thou shalt promises something if one is a No one can say "I can't Stephen Giegerich 
I don't believe so. The Bible, not covet". (Exodus 20:17). Christian. His promise is this: control myself." I bet one could Off-CampusGod's holy and authoritative Also, " ... add to your faith virtue God will give one the strength show perfect self-control if he Oct.11, 1991 
Accent 
Thursday, October 31, 1991 page 11 

By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Elvis is rl!~ad. 

At least that's what most of the campus is hoping. When asked what ghost tlwy would be most likely to summon at a Halloween seance, many rnspondnd without hesitation: 
"Elvis." 

The Notre Damn community probably won't be gathering tonight in a dark room to join hands, moan, and invokn the rnstless spirit of a bloatPCI crooner, but if it did, it would lw to eonjure up "Elvis. Who elsn?" 
Who elsn'? Well. Jim Morrison, for onn. "Oh, God. I could have his incarnate love child," said Chris, a senior. 
Musicians rank among the most frnqur.ntly requested spirits, induding Janis Joplin, Jim Croce, .limi llendrix, and Florence Ballard, the dead Supreme. 
"Maybe they could have an impromptu puke-fest," noted Ellen, a junior living oil'-campus. 
Pat, a senior. would like to contact Elvis. 
Actors were also a popular choice, particularly actors who met with untinwly deaths. "Oh, I'd definitely summon John Belushi," said Dave, a junior from Alumni. "He really knew how to throw a toga party." 
".Jamns Dean," said Shannon. a senior. "!lis was a tragically short nnding to a promising career of grade B movies." 
And. of course, among the most desired ghosts was Marilyn Monroe. 


eance 
Notre Dame students reveal who should be resurrected from the dead 
''I'd really like to have a conversation with her," said Scott, a sophomore from Alumni. 
"I'd want to talk to John F. Kennedy," said John, an off-campus senior. "''d ask him what it was like to sleep with Marilyn Monroe." 
A number of historical and political figures were mentioned, whether as personal heroes or as venerated villains. Gandhi, Malcolm X, Knute Rockne, Bismarck, General Sherman, Jimmy Hoffa, and Hasputin were all mentioned in some capacity. "Rasputin was a machine," said Tim, an off-campus senior. 
Brian, a freshman, would like to contact Elvis. 
Literary figures also made a good showing. For an evening with the departed, Jason, an off-campus senior, would choose "Mary Shelley. I'd ask her what really happened that night at Lake Geneva." 
And Julie, a Lyons senior, wouldn't mind being haunted by William Blake. "He and Byron, they were just literary bad boys." 
Some people, however, would rather meet good boys, particularly those in the Bible. Father Carey, a rector, would like a break from 
-
Dillon youth to talk to "St. Peter. He 
was impulsive, human, he made 
mistakes-but he still did all right." 
Michael, an off-campus senior, would rather get right to the heart of the matter: "I want to meet Jesus Christ. To see if this Christianity thing is really valid." 
Eileen, a sophomore, would like to contact Elvis. 
And then there are those with-eclectic-tastes in ghosts. ''I'd -­definitely try to contact Alan Hale," said an ofT-campus senior wlio asked not to be named. "I'd ask him why he was always bonking Gilligan with coconuts." 
''I'd summon Nicola Tesla, a Croatian inventor from the turn of the century," said Ken, a junior. "He was the chief rival of Edison. He's my hero." 
Bob, a Grace sophomore, is taking no chances with the supernatural. "Caspar. He's friendly." 
"The Marquis de Sade. Definitely," said a sophomore who would prefer to remain anonymous. 
Dave, a senior, would like to contact Elvis. 
Some refused to entertain the notion of ghosts at all. "There is no such thing. That's pagan," said Mary, a junior. "But if I did believe in ghosts, I'd want to talk to Elvis." 
Brendan, a sophomore, would like to contact Elvis. 
But not everyone will be wasting any time sitting around candles trying to communicate with a jumpsuited rock star. "I would've said Elvis, but he's not dead yet," said John, a senior. 

Costume party celebrates Halloween spirit 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 

Accent Writer 
You've heard the buzz around campus. "A costume party'? At Stepan?" "For homncoming'?What homecoming'?" 
"OK," you say. "So why should I go'! I've got other parties to go to... crests to study for, too, but who's counting them'?) 
You may have other parties to go to-and you should still go to thnrn-AFTEH you stop by the first big event of Notre Dame's Homecoming weekend. 
The campus-wide Costume Contest, being held tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. at Stepan Center, will be a fantastic meeting of Notre Dame spirit, community and creativity. 
The committee that organized the party can guarantee that at none of those other parties will you have the chance to see so many people you know, or earn such incredible prizes. 
"Prizes'?" you ask'? "Go on..." 
The Student committee for Sesquicentennial Events has been planning this event as the official "kick-off" of the Homecoming weekend activi­ties. 
Hache) Flanagan, a se­nior, is one of the co-chairpeo­ple for the costume party. She and her partner Suzanne Frosshard urge everyone to at­tend the festivities. 
Katie Pamenter, Sesquicentenial Chairperson for Student Activities, claims Stepan will be completely deco­rated to the point that no stu­dent or faculty member will be able to recognize it. 
Because Notre Dame has never formally hosted a home­coming and this is the first time the university has allowed a campus-wide costume event, event organizers are trying to make the weekend attractive to everyone on campus and in the surrounding community. 
This evening's Stepan ex­travaganza is open to all stu­dents, as well as special guests, like Notre Dame faculty and their families. Participants in the Big Brother/Big Sister pro­gram of South Bend are invited to bring their little brothers and sisters to join in the ac­tivities. 
Creative and intricate cos­tumes will be recognized and highly rewarded. Though the specifics are still being kept se­cret, the prizes will include more than just gift certificates. Flanagan confirmed that the first prize for best costume will be a VCR. 
Judges of the costume contest include representatives of the sophomore, junior and senior class officers, and three popular faculty members, Professor Morris of the Philosophy Department, Sue Cunningham of the Center for Social Concerns and Father Scully of the Government Department. 
"We are really excited about this," says Flanagan, "This is somthing new for the campus, but we hope everyone will come." There should be some­thing for everyone, like prizes, free food and drinks, and dancing to the music of a local radio DJ. 
The committee purposely planned that the event be short and early in the evening so all students could attend without cancelling other plans or cut­ting into study time. 
Katie Pamenter expressed her hope that the brevity of the event will encourage students to stop by, even if only for a few minutes. "People should really get involved in this," because a party isn't a party without a big crowd. 

-
Accent
page 12 Thursday, October 31, 1991 

-

The secrets of the 14th floor of the Hesburgh Library are finally revealed 

By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 

More forbidden than the Tree of Knowledge. Harder to see than the Notre Dame-Miami game. 
More mysterious than AI Capone's vault. 
What is it? 

THE FOURTEENTH FLOOR OF THE LIBRARY! 
The rumors regarding this floor have been running around for years. Is it a weight room for Father Malloy and Father Hesburgh? Is it the meeting place for the campus Devil-Worship Club? Worse yet, is it the home of the Blue Jogger? 
In order to find out what goes on up there once and for all, a crack team of Observer commandos scaled Touchdown Jesus to bring this story and these pictures to the people of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Well, actually, all we did was talk to Robert Miller, director of University libraries. After an in-depth security check, fingerprinting and lie-detector test, we gained access to ... 
THE FOURTEENTH FLOOR OF THE LIBRARY! 
The floor's layout includes a large meeting room, a kitchen and an elevator lobby to welcome those people special enough to allowed up to the top. 
Just outside the elevators is a painting titled "Phoenix Arising" by Robert Leader, art professor emeritus. 
A balcony runs along the perimeter of the building on the outside and serves as an observatory over Notre Dame and all of Michiana. 
Although this balcony would seem perfect for courting one's spouse or bungi­jumping, getting out on the balcony is even harder than getting upstairs in the first place. 
"People are not usually allowed outside except with special permission," Miller said. There have been several pictures taken from the 14th floor, he added, including one of the 1987 Notre Dame­Michigan game that was taken by William Strode and included in the "Notre Dame: A Sense of Place," picture book. 
The view from the 14th floor is incredible, allowing the spectator to see in all directions. But according to Miller, it is not the highest point on campus. 
The height of the observatory is just shorter than the tip of the statue of Mary that sits atop the Administration Building, he said. 
Even though it's not the highest place on campus, it's still not open to the public. 
C'Mon-not just anybody can go up to the 14th floor. Only University big-wigs and those with clout have the privilege of riding the elevators up that extra floor. 
Those who are allowed upstairs attend a variety of Universtiy-wide meetings and so­cial events that are held on the 14th floor each year, Miller said. 
"It's the place for special events," providing the crowd is not too big, said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. 
"The [Board of1 Trustees usually have one function up there when they are in town," said Moore. 
During commencement weekend, Moore added, a dinner is held on the 14th floor for dignitaries including those receiving honorary degrees and the commencement speaker. So last year, Margaret O'Brien Steinfels and Jane Pauley rubbed elbows while enjoying the view. 
If you're not Jane Pauley-or even Margaret O'Brien Steinfels-you have only one avenue of gaining access to the top of the 'Brare. 
The privilege of deciding who gets to to up to the 14th floor and who must wallow in agony on the other 13 rests with none other than the Big Cheese himself: Monk. 
"It [the 14th floor] really falls under the jurisdiction of the Office of the President," Miller said. ''I'm just the landlord," he joked. 
But even Miller takes steps to ensure he is allowed to hang out in the ultimate party palace on campus. 
"I don't charge them rent, though," he said, laughing. 
Top: The decor of the 
14th floor of the Library is a nice complement to the view of campus in the backround. Above: The elevator lobby on the 14th floor is a sight that the general public sees. The painting is called "Phoenix Arising" and was done by Robert Leader, professor emeritus of art. 
The Observer/John Rock 

Thursday, October 31, 1991 page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12-p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 

NOTICES  I DESPERATELY NEED A COPY OF THE 1988 NOTRE DAME­ FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME GAMES273-1802  WILL BUY TENN MIKE 288-7458  Good afternoon, my friends. I have a small request which I hope  WILL BUY TENN Mike 288-7458  
MIAMI GAME. IF YOU HAVE A  can be mutually beneficial to all  
COPY THAT I COULD BORROW,  involved. I desperately need 4 GAs  
TYPING AVAILABLE  PLEASE CALL RICH AT •1047  I NEED NAVY GA'S  I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD.  for Tennessee. If you have any at  NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR  
287-4082  CALL KRISTIN 277-6708  CALL MATI@ 1802  all please call Gina @ 2982. If I am  TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831  
unavailable, please leave a  
BLUR  message so I can get back to you.  
Buy and Sell used books  Chicago Nov 5  HELPII NEED USC AND TENN.  FOR SALE: NAVY GA'S. CALL  NEED 1 TENNGA OR STUD. TIX  
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and  tree ticket tor ride  TIX!I CALL X3353  KATE@ 4225.  WILL TRADE FOR NAVY GA OR  
the NY Times tool!  284-5486  FOR SALE:  PAY BIG$ CALL STEVE X1003  
corner of NO ave and Howard  BLUR  UNSIGNED STUDENT TICKET  
233-2342/1 0-5:30 everyday  Help!II I'm in dire need of  DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN  BOOK WITH REMAINDER OF  
Tennesssee G.A.'s. Please call  GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL  HOME GAMES.  I have two Navy GA's, call and  
RIDE NEEDED 11-1  Andy @ 233-9588.  PAT X1767111  CALL AND MAKE GOOD OFFER­ leave your best price 273-9376  
TERM PAPERS/RESUMES  TO COLUMBUS, OHIO  JOE 271-1211  
Computer-Typed, 232-3325.  WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS  {leave name, number and offer  
CALL LISA: 277-6321  Need 2 Navy GA's  I will give YOU anything you  if I'm not there)  navy std. ticket 4 sale  
call Kim at x4355  want it You give ME what I  x3459 ask for Joe  
do you know what a TEC is? if so, please contact  FOR RENT  want-ANY TENN TIX Call BROOKE at x2240  ALUMNI PARENTS ARE COMING  
Joe at 1 029 or Kathy at 4209  Need 3 Navy GA's. Call Mike@  IN FOR NAVY AND WILL  NEED NAVY GA'S. HUGE  
x1630.  ABANDON THEIR OLDEST  MONEY.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Need 4 Navy GA's bad  DAUGHTER IF SHE DOESN'T  TIM 289-7321  
iooipoiioiuyoii  219-291-7153  call Rich -1742  FIND TICKETS. CALL LAURA  
GET MUCH $$$ FOR NAVY GA'S  X3486  
CALL MATI x1772  Need 2 TENN stud. or GA's.  
SHOW YOUR PRIDE/  2 bdrm house. $150 &  Need two NAVY tix so my dear  Call Lara x4918  
Buy NO MOM, DAD and  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  little sister and her friend  NEED 1 NAVY GAl X1750  
ALUM sweats this Sat.  Walk to campus.  i need a NAVY student ticket. pete  see their first NO football  
from 9-3 at booths by  1310 South Bend Ave.  x1791.  game. Call Chris at X2115  THE 'RENTS ARE COMING!  
K of C and Riley. ?s Sara  NEED 5 NAVY GA'S FOR MY  2 Navy GA's needed desperately  
X1311.  PARENTS' DRINKING BUDDIES  Good $ offered  
Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical  NEED: 2 GA's Navy and 4 GA's  i need 2 NAVY GA's next to each  call Pete at 289-6624  
home. No appliances. $550/mo.  Tenn. Call John 273-9165.  other. pete x1791.  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or  Sub Alum looking  
237-1949  Cressy & EveretV BH & G 233­ FOR FOUR FOR  Save The Earth  
6141.  Wealthy Double Domer from  i need 1 NAVY ticket-student OR  Penn St x2447  Sell Me 3 GA's for NAVY  
Albuquerque needs 2 Navy GAs.  GA. Chris x1789  Leave Message 283-2982  
Ste­ callx4942  
wha chu do?  ONE ROOMMATE WANTED. TWO  Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets  
BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED,  need Navy st. tix x3543  Nov. 9. Call {704) 541-8845.  I HAVE 2 GA, NAVY  
NEAR NO . FIRST AND LAST  Help! NO alum needs two Navy  CALL 288 0730 EVENINGS  
WowC- MONTHS RENT IN ADVANCE.  GAs. Call Terry x4076  
RESUME REQUIRED. 287-2583  4 sale:Navy, Tenn stud x4075  BIG BUCKS!!  
LOST/FOUND  Need NAVY & TENN GAsl x4282  I need two Tenn. G.A.'s and I will pay greatly for them.  Navy,Tenn marr.stu. tix for sale. 2 packs. Will sell packs or indiv. 277­ 

 LARGE 3-BEDROOM DUPLEX  $$$ATIENTION Ticketholders:  Call Chris at -1736.  5348.  
NEAR NO. APPLIANCES,  I need TWO Tennessee GAs  
LOST: 7 keys on ring, one Honda, two NO office keys, one Cryptonite  GARAGE, WALK-IN CLOSETS, NEW CARPET/PAINT. $395 +  Need TENN Tixl Will sell family members if a must!  so bad that I can taste them! Big Bucks in itfor YOU II  $$$ I need lots o' GA's for Navy  PERSONAL  
bike, and three house keys, modest  UTILITIES. 289-1618.  Call Tom X1613  Call DICE at x1751 $$$  and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for  
reward, call289-8136.  Aaron or leave message. $$$  
FOR SALE  I need 2 or 4 tix for Navy  Roses are red  I am the Lizard King and I can do anything.  
Lost: 7-key ring: one Honda, 2 NO  and Tennessee  Violets are blue  Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125  
office, one Cryptonite bike, three  Please call Jerry x1691  I'm schizophrenic  
house keys; lost near or in O'Shag;  '85 NISSAN MAXIMA, 4-dr. stick,  And so am I.  Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  
modest reward; 289-8136.  loaded. Excellent condition. $4990.  So I need an extra  SELL MARRIED STD TIX  
271-70181v. msg.  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR  Tenn. GA.  NAVY, TENN 271 19 98  
2 TENN GAs. Dan x 1798  Todd X2371  Monica Eigelberger is a ho:"  
kokl;kl;  
2 0/W TIX SB TO PHI LA.  I HAVE 2 NAVY GASI  
NOV 14$80 EA.  I need three NAVY GA's for  i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791  JILL X3021  stronger than burt  
287-9676  visiting sister and friends.  
Two have never seen an ND  
;1m  game before and would love  I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY  Desperately needed! Millions of  Jack wants to wish Phatty a happy  
HOTEL ROOM available at  to go. Call Elizabeth at X4294.  GA TIXS.272-6306  Tenn tix of any kind -student or GA.  Halloween.  
Signature Inn for Navy wkend  We will pay big bucks! Call Jon Paul  
call Heather @277-6703  or Brian at 271-8049.  
LOST: gray zip-up sweatshirt  Need TENN & USC GA's Stan  CARROLL HALL  
w/hood wilh keys in pocket. Lost  I made lots of $$$ over break and  x1726  CARROLL HALL  
Wed, 10/16, in Rm. 220 O'Shag.  FOR SALE:  need 2 Navy GA's {hint)! Steve  Need 1 Navy GA or stud ticket  HAUNTED HOUSE  
Call Dana 277-8084.  '83 Mercury Lynx  x2354  Mary X2512  HAUNTED HOUSE  
Good condition, sunroof  Need 2 GA's for Navy and  who : da' Vermin  
Will discuss price  Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417.  when: Thurs. Oct. 31st  
Call Karen @ 284-5050  Helpllll I need 2 GA's for Navy  Need 4 Navy Tix and 1 Tenn. Stud.  where : Carroll {didn't you  
LOST: Navy blue blazer at the SMC  Please call  Tic. X1604  read the headline?)  
Junior Dance on Fri. Oct.  Timmy@ 233-9588.  I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC  why : it's SPOOOOOOKYI  
11. I left coat on coat-rack in  Hawaii  and Tennessee.  Admission: $2  
Haggar Hall. 'Dilliards' brand  RT Air Chicago to Honolulu  Chris 239-5713  Need 4 Tenn. GA's X1604  The ghouling starts at 7:30  
name on inside coat pocket.  NO-HAWAII game  ends at 10:30  
Reward. If found call Chris  call Andy 234-1698  Need 3 student or GA's for Tenn.  
atx2377  Rich x1926  TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS.  NEED TENN AND NAVY GAs.  
RANDY 800-323-7687.  MONEY NO OBJECT.  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
New 15 Gallon Tank w/ everything  Call Ron x2157  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
L'KLKLK'  for sale Paul2462  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  
I need three Navy tickets  BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs  289-1993. Office near campus.  
WANTED  Apple lmagewriter II  desperately! Please help me out! Call x427 4 and ask for Joe.  Marc x1689  HELP!! I I NEED 1 STD AND/OR 1-3 NAVY GA's FOR MY FAMILY  
Brand new, in box, paper &  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL AMY x2797  Top Ten Quotes from Sunny New  
dust cover. ask $375  Can you dig this! I am terribly  Mexico.  
Downtown book warehouse  Tom 277-8790  interested in buying a Student ticket  10. We can't drive a stick.  
NOW HIRING Send Name, Add.,  $ $ $ $ WANTED $ $ $ $ $  for Tennessee. Price is no object,  Please Help!! Need 3 Navy GAs  9. I'm afraid to turn on my hair  
phone#, yr/major, to  One TENN TIX for friend  unless of course you want more  Call Janna or Elissa at x4220  dryer.  
Mr. Turner, P.O. Box 4621  $ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $  coming a long way. Call  money than I am willing to pay you.  8. I don't think there are enough  
South Bend IN 46624  Amanda at x-1715.  Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015.  video cameras here.  
I WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY  If Dave is busy his personal staff  Have 2 Navy G.A.'s, will trade/sell  7. Grandma's following me around  
FOR 2 TENNGA'S X1737  will be happy to help you. Irish V­ for 1 or 2 Tenn. G.A.'s. Dan x2308  and she has bad breath.  
ball rulesll/!11!1!!1  6. What's up Scapegoats?  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  TICKETS  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S WILL PAY $40 AND UP  NEED !HI  5. For some reason I'm talking like a Hispanic person.  
$5,000+/month. Free  NEED 2 NAVY GAs WILL PAY  One ticket for Tenn.  4. What kind of family is this that  
transportation! Room & Board/  CALL TOM  $$$ CALL AMY 2558  GA or Student. Future domer  wants a dumb blonde from  
Over 8,000 openings. No  TICKET WANTED­ X1762  wants to see his first game  Michigan to drive?  
experience necessary. MALE or  call x1117  3. She was going to wear a blazer,  
FEMALE. For employment  Sell me your  will buy any  too.  
program call Student Employment  tenn or navy  2. For those of you on the right  
Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext.  TENNESSEE STUDENT TICKET  NEED 4 TENN GA'S AND 2 NAVY  tix. john 1811  I NEED NAVY GA'S OR STUD TIX  side, unfortunately there is nothing  
118.  GA'S. CALL #3718.  of particular interest to see.  
I already have an 10, so there is no  1. Be afraid, be very afraid!  
risk to you. Call x4661  WANTED: 3 TENNGA'S  CALL TOM  
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S.  CALL x4774  X1762  
TRAVEL FREEl! SELL QUALITY  I need a NAVY Ticket for my little  CALL DAVE AT X1807.  
SPRING BREAK VACATION TO JAMAICA HIGHEST  bro. Call Chris @2546  NEED 1 STUDENT and 3 GA'S  I NEED 2 TENN GAS-LAURA  FL-where's our two cases of Busch?  - 
COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR  FOR SALE:2 NAVY GAs x2742 '  for NAVY  277-9158  
THE BESTI  PETE  CALL KARIN at x1314 1!1  
SUN SPLASH TOURS  NEED NAVY TICKET  Bachelor will pay $$$and dinner to  
1-800-426-7710.  Call Sean @4274  NEED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY, TENN  bachelorette for 2 Navy GA's.  
$$ NEED A TENN. STUD IN A$$  Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please  PLEASE CALL JARED X1592  Steve x2354  
$ BAD WAY. CALL DAN x3403 $  call Dan x1740  
Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  - 
Spring Break Packages To  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  That's right, you better get out here,  
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  I Have 2 Navy Stud. Tix.  Need 2 Navy and 2 tennessee  •HELP!! I need NAVY stud. tlxl!"  ladies  
Florida! Best Trips & Prices I Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-6786.  I need GAs for NAVY !II Todd x1784  Jay x1578  G.A.'S. Big $$$. Call Chris x2377  •Please call Lynne X2614 ···········•••**********  see CLASS/page 17  

page 14 Thursday, October 31, 1991
Scoreboard 
NHL STANDINGS DEVILS 5, FLAMES Z MLB FREE AGENTS TRANSACTIONS 
1::

WALES CONFERENCE N.J. 2 2 1-5 NEW YORK (AP) -Compensation tor players American LeaguePetrick Dlvlelon Calgary 1 0 1-2 eligible for tree agency in 1991 based the Elias CLEVELAND INDIANS-Named Rick Adairw L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv Flrat Period-1 , New Jersey, Conacher 2 basebail ranklngs (x-club options lor 1992): p~chlng coach; Dave Nelson first base, outfieldWashington 9 3 0 18 56 38 4-1-Q 5-2-Q s-o-o (Boschman, Stevens), 5:35. 2, Calgary, Forslund 2 TYPE A and baserunning coach; Jeff Newrmn third base NY Rangers 8 5 0 16 45 42 5-2-Q 3-3-o 3-2-Q (Ono, Macoun), 7:51. 3, New Jersey, Richer 5, Bclbby Bonilla, at, Pittsburgh; Steve Buechele, 3b, and catchers coach; Ron Clark Infield and bench New Jersey 7 5 0 14 52 37 5-1-Q 24-Q 24.0 14:17. Penahles-Roberts, Cal (roughing), 3:o9; Pittsburgh; Tom Candiottl, rhp, Toronto; Jerry Don coach; and Ken Bolek coaching assistant. 
Pittsburgh 4 5 2 10 40 49 1·3-2 3-2-Q 3-4-1 Lemieux, NJ (cross-checking), 15:10. Gleaton, ihp, Detro~; x-Car~on Fisk, c, Chicago; KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Named Lee May and Philadelphia 3 5 1 7 25 28 2·2.0 1-3-1 1·3-1 Second Perlod-4, New Jersey, Stevens 3 Mke F~gerald, c, Montreal; Pedro Guerrero, 1b, Bruce Klson coaches and offered contracts to LynnNY Islanders 3 5 2 8 37 41 2·3-1 1·2·1 1·3-o (Lemieux, Stastny), 4:24 (pp). 5, New Jersey, St. Louis; Brian Harper, c, Minnesota; Jay Howell, Jones, Adrian Garrett, Glenn Ezell and Guy
Aduna Dlvlalon rhp, Los Angeles; Brook Jacoby, 3b, Oakland;
Stastny 7, 8:07. Penahles-Macinnls, Cal 
Hansen, coaches.

Montreal 9 3 1 19 45 20 5-2-Q 4-1-1 4·2-1 (tripping), 3:28; Suter, Cal (holding), 4:15; Stastny, Wally Joyner, 1b, California; Mke LaValliere, c, MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Named Phil Gamer Hartford 5 3 2 12 30 27 3-1-2 2-2-o 2·2-1 NJ (interference), 4:54; Stevens, NJ, double minor Pittsburgh; Mike Morgan, rhp, Los Angeles; Jack manager.
Buffalo 4 6 1 9 29 34 3-2·1 14·0 3-2-1 (roughing, unsportsmanlike conduct), 8:48; Stern, Morris, rhp, Minnesota; Eddie Murray, 1b, Los National League
Boston 3 5 2 8 31 36 1·2.0 2·3-2 0.1-1 Cal (roughing), 8:48. Angeles; Dan Pasqua, of, Chicago; Alejandro PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Named Mark Sauer Quebec 2 6 1 5 32 43 24·1 04.0 1·3-o Third Perlod-6, Calgary, Macinnis 3 (Gilmour, Pena, rhp, Atlanta; Juan Samuel, 2b, Los Angeles; president and chief executive officer. 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Vernon), 1:35 (pp). 7, New Jersey, Chorske 6 x·Ozzie Sm~h. ss, St. Louis; Kurt Stillwell, ss, 
BASKETBALL

Norrla Dlvlalon (Todd, Kasatonov), 16:38. Pena~les-Daneyko, NJ Kansas C~y; National Beeketball A..oclalionw L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv (lnterlerence), :35; Suter, Cal (slashing), 3:0S; Danny Tartabull, of, Kansas City; Frank VIola, lhp, BOSTON CEL TICS-Signed Larry Bird, forward, Chicago 5 5 3 13 50 49 34-1 2·1·2 0.2·2 Roberts, Cal, major-game misconduct (high­New York Mets; Mitch Williams, ihp, Philadelphia; to a 2·year contract extension through the 1993·94St. Louis 5 3 3 13 36 35 4-Q-2 1·3-1 2-2·2 slicking), 4:10; Stastny, NJ (roughing), 4:52; Richer, Dave Winfield, ot, California season. Signed Kevin Gamble, forward, to a 3-yearDetro~ 5 6 1 11 39 37 4·3.0 1·3-1 2-3-1 NJ (hooking), 11 :47; Barr, NJ, minor-major TYPE B contract. Waived Anderson Hunt, Kennard Minnesota 5 5 0 10 33 31 4-2-o 1-3-o 2-Q-Q (Instigator, fighting), 19:17; Stem, Cal, major Steve Bedrosian, rhp, Minnesota; Dave Bergman, Winchester and Rick Calloway, guards. and
Toronto 3 8 1 7 34 41 3-2-1 0-6-Q 3-2·1 (fighting), 19:17. 1b, Detro~; Daryl Boston, at, New York Mets; Oil Michael Sm~h and Steve Schettler, lorwards.
Smythe Dlvlalon Shots on goal-New Jersey 8-11·9--28. Calgary Can Boyd, rhp, Texas; Gary Carter, c, Los Angeles; CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Signed Larry Johnson, 
Vancouver 9 3 1 19 49 37 5-1-1 4·2.0 4-2-o 12·9-15--36. Glenn Davis, 1b, Baltimore; Mariano Duncan, 2b, forward, to a 6-year contract. 
Los Angeles 6 3 3 15 47 46 3-1·1 3-2·2 3-1·2 Power·piay Opportun"ies-New Jersey 1 of 5; Cincinnati; Jim Eisenrelch, of, Kansas Cny; Mike DALLAS MAVERICKS-Waived Jim Grandholm. 
Winnipeg 6 5 2 14 39 45 4·3.0 2-2-2 2·2-1 Caigary 1 at 5. Gallego, 2b, Oakland; Joe Hesketh, lhp, Boston; forward.
Calgary 6 4 1 13 48 33 3-Q-Q 3-4·1 24-Q Goalies-New Jersey, Billington, 1-Q-0 (36 shots· x·Steve Howe, lhp, New York Yankees; Jack LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Walved AnthonyEdmonton 5 6 1 11 39 46 2·1-1 3·5-0 3·2-1 34 saves). Calgary, Vernon, 64·1 (28-23). Howell, 3b, San Diego; Bill Krueger, ihp, Seattle; Jones and irving Thomas, forwards. 
San Jose 1 12 0 2 32 73 14-Q 0-8-o 14-0 A-18,941. Terry Leach, rhp, Minnesota; Carmela Mar1inez, of, PHOENIX SUNS-Waived Joe Barry Carroll, 
Wedneadey'a Gemea Thuradey·a Gemea Refer-Mike McGeough. Linesmen-Joe Cincinnati; Otis Nixon, of, Atlanta; x-Junior Ortiz, c, center.
Late Games Not Included Los Angeles at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Piansky, Jay Sharrers. Minnesota; Mike Pagliarulo, 3b, Minnesota; Dave Continental B..ketball Aeeoclollon
Detroit 3, Buffalo 1 Quebec at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m. Parker, of, Toronto; Gena Petralll, c, Texas; ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Derrick Rowland,
Los Angeles 4, Hartford 4, tie San Jose at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Ted Power, rhp, Cincinnati; Willie Randolph, 2b, guard, and Steve Wright, center.
Montreal 6, Winnipeg 1 Minnesota at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Milwaukee; Dennis Rasmussen, ihp, San Diego; GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Traded AnthonyNew Jersey at Calgary, (n) N.Y. Islanders a1 Chicago, 8:35p.m. Dick Schofield, ss, California; x-Frank Tanana. ihp.
WHALERS 4, KINGS 4 Jones, guard, to the Tri·CHy Chinook tor a
St. Louis at Edmonton, (n) Detroit; Bill Wegman, rhp, Milwaukee. 
cond~ional 1992 first-round draft pick. 
TYPE C Global Baoketboll Aaaoclallon

L.A. 2 0-4 Jim Acker, rhp, Toronto; Dave Anderson, ss, San
FINAL 1990·91 NBA STANDINGS LOUISVILLE SHOOTERS-signed Reggie
Hartford 2 2 0 0-4 Francisco; Steve Crawford, rhp, Kansas C"y; Alvin Hanson, forward. 
Firat Period-1, Hartford, Dineen 3 Davis, 1b, Seattle; Brian Downing, of, Texas; Scott MID-MICHIGAN GREAT LAKERS-Signed Drexel
EASTERN CONFERENCE (Cunneyworth), 4:48. 2, Hartford, Cunneyworth 2 Fletcher, 2b, Chicago; Dan Gladden, of, Minnesota; Deveaux, guard, and Ronnie Reese, Andre WileyAUanlic Dlvlelon (Pederson), 1 1 :44. 3, Los Angeles, Breauh 1 Orel Hershiser, rhp, Los Angeles; Donnie Hill, 2b, and Scott Bailey, forwards.
w L Pd CE l10 Streak Home Away Coni (Mcintyre, Rob~aille), 15:15. Penahi-McKenzle, Calnornia; Pete incaviglia, ot, Detroit; FOOTBALLy·Boston 56 26 .683 4·6 lost 4 35-6 21·20 35-19 Har (hooking), 4:54; McSorley, LA (holding), 18:0S. Bob Kipper, lhp, Pittsburgh; Carney Lansford, 3b, Nollonol Football leaguex-Phlladeiphla 44 38 .537 12 4-6 Lost 2 29-12 15-26 32-22 Second Perlod-4, Hartford, Burt 3 (Cyr, Oakland; Kirk McCaskill, rhp, CaJWornla; Lloyd NFl-$uspended Tim Worley, Pittsburgh X·NewYork 39 43 .476 17 4·6 Won 1 21-20 18-23 28·26 Andersson), 7:25. 5, Hartford, Pederson 1 Moseby, of, DetroK; Randy Ready, 2b, Steelers running back, tor six games tor violatingWashington 30 52 .366 26 3·7 Lost 3 21-20 9-32 22-33 (Zaiapskl, Dineen), 8:56 (pp). 6, Los Angeles, Philadelphia; Don Robinson, rhp, San Francisoo; the NFL's drug policy. 
New Jersey 26 56 .317 30 3-7 Lost 1 20.21 6·35 18-36 Gllhen 2 (Donnelly), 14:14 (sh). Pena~les­Garry Templeton, ss, New York Mets. 
DENVER BRONCOS-Activated AlphonsoMiami 24 58 .293 32 2-8 Lost 1 18·23 8-35 15-39 Kudeiskl, LA (elbowing), 3:40; Hunter, Har, NO COMPENSATION Carreker, defensive end, tram the physically· 
Central Dlvlalon misconduct, 5:53; Breauh, LA, major-game Mike Scott, rhp, Houston; Bert Blyleven, rhp, unable-to-perform list. Placed Ronnie Haliburton, y·Chlcago 61 21 .744 7-3 Won 4 35-6 26-15 42-12 misconduct (high-sticking), 7:25; Rob~aiile, LA CaiWornia; John Cerutti, ihp, Delran; Danny Cox, linebacker, on Injured reserve.
X·DetroH 50 32 .610 11 5·5 Lost 1 32·9 16-23 33-21 (hooking), 13:44. rhp, Philadelphia; Ron Darting, rhp, Oakland; Jim DETROIT LIONS-Placed Rodney Peete, •·Milwaukee 48 34 .585 13 5-5 Won 1 33-8 15-26 33-21 Third Perlod-7, Los Angeles, Rob~ailie 7 Deshaies, lhp, Houston; Dwight Evans, of, quarterback, on Injured reserve. Signed D.J.
x·Atianta 43 39 .524 18 5-5 Won 1 29·12 14·27 26·28 (Kurri, Gretzky), :34. 8, Los Angeles, Gretzky 1 BaltiiTlOfe; Rich Gedman, c, St. Louis; AHredo Dozier, running back. 
X·lndiana 41 41 .500 20 5-5 Lost 1 29-12 12-29 27·27 (Rob~aille, Sandstrom), 17:24 (pp). Penalti­Griffin, ss, Los Angeles; Rich Gossage, rhp, Texas; LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Activated MarcusCleveland 33 49 .402 28 8-2 Won 4 23-18 10.31 23-31 Mcintyre, LA (high-sticking), 1:34; Granato, LA Allee Hammaker, ihp, San Diego; Ron Hassey, c, Alien, running back, from Injured reserve andCharlotte 26 56 .317 35 4·6 Lost 2 17·24 9·32 17-37 (high-sticking), 4:48; Hunter, Har (high-sticking), Montnsal; Tracy Jones, of, Seattle; Steve Lake, c, placed him on the practice squad. 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 4:48; Gretzky, LA (holding), 7:13; Granato, LA Philadelphia; Steve Lyons, 2b, Boston; AI NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed A.J. Greene,Md-at lllvlalon (high· sticking), 1 1 :56; Hunter, Har (high·sticklng), Newman, 2b, Minnesota; Steve Ontiveros, rhp, defensive back. Waived Johnie Cooks, linebacker, 
w L Pd CE l10 Streak Home Away Coni 11:56; McSorley, LA (hooking), 13:()4; Granato, LA Philadelphia; Dan Petry, rhp, Boston; Rafael 27 8·2 22·19 
and Greg Meisner, defensive lineman.
y-San Antonio 55 .671 Won 1 33·8 36-19 (hlgh·stlcking), 17:07; Norwood, Har, double minor Ramirez, ss, Houston; Ernest Riles, 3b, Oakland; PHOENIX CARDINALS-Activated Robertx-Utah 54 28 .659 1 7·3 Lost 1 36·5 18·23 37-18 (hlgh·sticklng, roughing), 17:07; Kudelski, LA Jeff Robinson, rhp, Calltomia; Massey, cornerback, and Lanry Centers, running 
x-Houston 52 30 .634 3 5-5 Won 1 31-10 21·20 33-23 (roughing), 19:14. John Russell, c, Texas; Mark Salas, c, DetroK; back, from Injured reserve. Waived TerrenceOrlando 31 51 .378 24 5-5 Won 2 24-17 7·34 23-34 Overtime-None. Penalties-None Rick Schu, lnf, Philadelphia; Doug Sisk, rhp,
11·39 Flagler, running back, and Scott Evans, linebacker.
Minnesota 29 53 .354 26 64 Won 2 21·20 8-33 Shots on goal-los Angeles 9-6·74-26. Har1tord Atlanta; Rick Sutcliffe, rhp, Chicago; nm Teufel, 2b, HOCKEY
Dallas 28 54 .341 27 2-8 Lost 1 20.21 8-33 11·39 8-14-7.(}-29. San Diego; Max Venable, at, California; Mitch 
lnternellonel Hockey League

Denver 20 62 .244 35 1-9 Lost 1 11·24 3-38 1245 Power-play Opportun~les-l.os Angeles 1 of 2; Webster, of, Los Angeles; Curtis Wil<erson, ss, SAN DIEGO GULLS-Signed Ron Duguay,
Pacific lllvlalon Hartford 1 at 9. Pittsburgh; Mookle Wilson, at, Toronto; Herm center.
y·Portiand 63 19 .768 9·1 Lost 1 36-5 27·14 42-14 Goalies-Los Angeles, Hrudey, 3-1 ·2 (29 shols·25 Winningham, at, Cincinnati; Todd Worrell, rhp, St. 
SOCCERx-LA Lakers 58 24 .707 5 7·3 Won 1 33-8 25-16 40.16 saves). Hartford, Wh~more, 5-3-2 (26-22). Louis; Curt Young, lhp, Oakland. 

Nelionol Profeaalonel Soccer leoguex·Phoenix 55 27 .671 8 5-5 Won 1 32·9 23-18 35-21 A-10,780. 
CANTON INVADERS-Traded Randy Pikuzinskl, 
Won 28·28 x·Seattie 41 41 .500 22 6·4 lost 1 28·13 13-28 27-29 Brian Murphy. 
x-Golden State 44 38 .537 19 7·3 5 30.11 14-27 Refer-Dan Marouelll. Linesmen-Mark Vines, forward, to the Chicago Power for Chicago's first· 
round pick in the 1992 college draft.

LA Clippers 31 51 .378 32 3·7 Lost 4 23·18 8·33 28-30 
Sacramento 25 57 .305 38 5-5 Won 1 24·17 140 18·37 x-cllnched playoH berth y-ciinched division title 
ANYTHING LESS WOULD BE UNCIVILIZED 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1991 college football poll, with first-place votes In FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 
THIS WEEKEND IN NOTRE DAME SPORTS 
parentheses, records through Oct. 26, total points based Hockey vs. Wlsconsln·Eau Claire 7:30 p.m. @ JACC on 25 points lor a first-place vote through one point lor a 
Pta. Next arne

25th-place vote, and previous ranking: Record Pis Pvs Women's Tennis@ Rolex Regionals-Madison, WI 
(1) 720 1112 at Louisville 
1. Florida St. (53) 8-Q.O 1 ,492 1 
(2) 1·0 684 1119 vs. West Virginia 2. Miarri (3) 7-Q-Q 1,415 2 
(3) 7·0 683 11/2 vs. Arizona Stale 3. Washington (4) 7.0.0 1,412 3 
(4) 6·1 634 11/2 vs. Purdue 4. Michigan 8-1-Q 1,312 4
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2 
(5) 7-1 593 11/2 vs. NavyFootball vs. Navy 4 p.m. @ Notre Dame Stadium 5. Notre Dame 7-1.0 1,247 5Women's Soccer @Central Florida 1 p.m. 
6. (6) 5·1 567 11/2 at Auburn6. Florida 6-1-o 1,210 6Volleyball @ T aledo 7:30 p.m. 
7. (7) 7·2 512 11/9 at Maryland7. Alabama 8-1.0 1,056 7Cross-Country @ MCC Championships· Chicago, IL tie (8) Alabama 6·1 512 11/2 vs. Mississippi State 8. Penn St. 7-2-Q 1,046 8Women's Tennis @ Rolex Regionals· Madison, WI 
2 
9. (9) Nebraska 6·1 503 11/2 at Colorado 10. Catnomla 8-1-Q 991 10 
9. Nebraska 6·1.0 1,002 9 
10. 
(10) Cai~ornia 6·1 476 11/2 vs. Southern Cal 11. iowa 6-1.0 910 11 

11. 
(11) Iowa 6·1 437 1112 a1 Ohio State 12. Texas A&M 5-1.0 822 13 


12. (15) TexasA&M 5-1 369 11/2 at Rice
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 3 13. Ohio St. 8-1·0 743 14 
13. 
(14) Ohio State 6-1 356 11/2 vs. Iowa

14. 
(13) Tenne-4·2 331 1 1/2 vs. Memphis State 


Men's Soccer vs. Kentucky 2 p.m. @Alumni Field 14. Tennessee 4-2.0 693 15 Women's Soocer@ Florida International 1 1 am. 15. Colorado 5-2-Q 657 1 6 
t.\J 
15. (19) Clemson 5-1·1 322 11/2 vs. Wake Forest 17. East Carolina 6-1-Q 535 20 
Women's Tennis @ Rolex Regionals-Madison, WI 16. Clemaon 4-1-1 570 19 
16. (16) Colorado 5·2 297 11/2 vs. Nebraska 18. Syracuse 6-2.0 486 1 8 
17. (21) East Carolina 6-1 257 11/2 vs. Tulane 
19. N. Carolina St. 6-1 -o 401 1 2 
3 

18. (20) Syracuse 6-2 229 1112 vs. T empie 20. Oklahoma 5-2.0 378 21 
(12) N.C. State 6-1 198 11/2 a1 South Carolina 21. Baylor 6-2-Q 287 22
-
(18) Oklahoma 5-2 192 11/2 vs. Kansas State22. Georgia 6-2-Q 251 24 (22) Baylor 6·2 140 11/2 al Arkansas23. UCLA 5-2-Q 1 56 
(23) Georgia 6-2 128 11/9 vs. Florida 25. Fresno St. 7-0-o 97 
24. Arkansas 5-2-Q 140 25 
(-) Arkansas 5·2 60.5 1112 vs. Baylor Other receMng votes: Virginia 37, Illinois 33, Air Force 30, 
(-) UCLA 5-2 40 11/2 vs. Washington St. Indiana 29, Mississippi St. 29, Pittsburgh 9, Brigham Young 
(-) Fresno State 7-o 34 11/2 at Utah State 6, Tulsa 6, Stanford 4, Duke 3, Kansas St. 2, Utah 1. 
4 
Others receiving votes: Mississippi State19, Pittaburgh 15, Indiana 12, Duke 10, illinois 9, Air Force 7.5, Auburn 6, Virginia 6, Bowling
WOMEN'S SOCCER: NOTRE DAME Z, WRIGHT STATE 1 Green 5, Southern Cal 5, West Virginia 5, San Diego State 3, Arizona 
State 2, Brigham Young 2, Georgia Tech 2, TCU 2, Texas 2, Boston 
-College 1, Georgia Southern 1, Northwestern 1. 
NOTRE DAME 2. WRIGHT STATE 1 Bold indicates ND opponent Wright State 1 Q. 1 Notre Dame 1 1-2 Schools participating: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona Stale, Ball State, 
Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Florida, Florida GOALS (ASSISTS) [SCORE] [TIME} 
State, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Miami, Michigan, Nebraska, Notre Wright State-JoAnne Pax1on (Brenda Jones) [1-Q Wright St.] {1 :26] 
Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn, Penn State, Purdue, Syracuse,Notre Dame-Jodi Hartwig (Susie Zllvftls) [1-1] {20:02] 
T exaa. Utah. Virginta, West Virginia, Wisoonsin.
Notre Dame-Tiffany Thompson (unassisted) [2·1 Notre Dame] {65: 26} 
SHOTS ON GOAL· Notre Dame 10, Wright State 6. GOALKEEPERs-Notre Dame-Michelle Lodyga, Wright State-Leigh Ann Brown. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 


Thursday, October 31, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Heroes' welcome for Braves in Atlanta 
ATLANTA (AP) -The magic of the llJYl Atlanta Braves lived on for a few more hours as more than 750,000 fans wel­comed the team home with a two-hour ticker tape parade. 
Fans swarmed the parade, lmmking through police lines to touch tlwir heroes. 
"Forget the trophy. You won a place in our hearts," read one sign. "Justice has been served. Somebody had to lose," read another in a play on rightfielder David Justice's name. 
The erowd that jammed into the 12-block route of Tuesday's parade was estimated at more than 750,000, said City Hall spokeswoman Lyn May. The parad11 featured 16 marching bands, floats with giant toma­hawks and baseball motif, and a basnball-bat drill team. 
It didn't seem to matter that the Braves lost the last game of the 11JIJ1 World Series. 
"I thought I had seen a lot of dramatie baseball during the past two weeks," Braves man­agnr Bobby Cox told fans later at a reeeption at the Fulton County Government Center. 
"But I have never seen any­thing more dramatic than what's happening in Atlanta today with the parade and all," he said. "We want to say thanks 
to the world's greatest baseball 
fans. Nobody deserves more 
than these fans." 
Downtown was awash with the team's colors of red, white and blue as fans jammed the 12-block parade route under an October blue sky, waving red tomahawks and tossing 100 miles of recyclable white ticker tape. 
They swung their arms in the tomahawk chop and sang the Indian-like chant that became the fans' mantra during the National League playoffs and the World Series. 
"It was great, super," said second baseman Mark Lemke. "I've never seen nothing like it." 
Sidewalks along Peachtree Street were jammed an hour before parade time. 
"Let's not kill each other," urged an announcer for an Atlanta radio station. A clothing store let women and children sit inside because of the crowd crush on the sidewalk, which broke the store's plate-glass storefront. 
The crowd was the largest ever to flood downtown for any event, police said. As the play­ers rode by, the crowd surged to the cars. 
The loss of control brought sharp criticism of the city and police, and also speculation that a longer route or more police might have helped keep order. 
"It's a total disgrace," said Michael Fitzgerald, a publisher from suburban Dunwoody who brought his family to see the parade. "They lost control of the crowd.... They don't know how to put on a parade." 
Reports of petty crimes and fighting were numerous. Fitzgerald said he and his fam­ily were threatened by a woman who claimed to have a gun. One woman raced through a crowd, chasing a young man who'd stolen what she said was a $700 necklace. 
Police defended their actions, saying the crowd was simply not controllable. 
"I don't think anything really went wrong, except everyone decided to come downtown," said Atlanta deputy police chief Julius Derico. "We were not overwhelmed. The sheer num­ber of people was simply more than we expected and more than anyone could have han­dled." 
Approximately 500 law en­forcement officers patrolled the parade route. 
"Another 500 wouldn't have hurt," Derico said. " ... But the good part about it, it was a friendly crowd. They just wanted to reach out and touch." 
The Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority's rapid rail system was overwhelmed by a record 300,000 riders, more than double the average weekday crowd and 130,000 more than the previous record 170,000 on a free ride day May 9. 
The three downtown stations nearest the parade were closed because of the jam. 
Some fans climbed utility poles, while others watched from trees in a downtown park to get a better look at their heroes. 
Georgia Gov. Zell Miller and his wife, Shirley, did the toma­hawk chop as their car passed by, and Miller later proclaimed 1991 "the Year of the Braves in Georgia." 
But even as the parade ended, some fans refused to concede defeat to the Minnesota 1\vins after seven games. 
"Need two tickets to Game 8," read a sign held up by Jeannie Layson, an employee of the governor's office. 
Introducing0 
0 0 

the Macintosh PowerBook 140 

Macintosh®PowerBook™140, a member of the Apple®Macintosh PowerBook line of notebook computers, packs both the power and the ease of Macintosh computing into a sleek, innovative design that makes it easy to take your work wherever you go. 
This weekend come over to Stepan Center and get acquainted with the new Apple PowerBook notebook computers, Macintosh Classic II and Macintosh Quadra. Representatives of Apple Computer will be available to answer any questions you may have. If you like what you see, computer store personnel will be present to help you place your order. 

Friday, November 1 SWiday, November 3 12pm-Spm lOam-3pm 
© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc 
Bosox look into domed stadium 
BOSTON (AP) -The Boston Red Sox would consider moving from Fenway Park to a domed stadium, that also might become the home of the NFL's New England Patriots, aecording to a top executive of the American League team. 
"We would look at 
anything that's presented to 
us," John F. Donovan Jr., 
Red Sox executive vice 
president and general 
counsel, told The Boston 
Globe on Tuesday. "Nobody 
here has a closed mind." 
He also said the Red Sox 
are not pursuing plans to 
move. 
"It would have to be a 
facility of very high 
quality," he said of any new 
home. 
Fenway Park is the oldest 
major league park and has 
the smallest seating 
capacity at 34,171. 
Gov. William F. Weld invited Boston mayor Raymond L. Flynn and officials from four local professional sports teams to a meeting today. 
"Facilities, meaning a new arena and stadium, are likely topics for part of the meeting," said John Connolly, development adviser to the Boston Redevelopment Authority. 
The BRA recently distributed a report on the benefits of building a domed football stadium in Boston with a combination of private· money and federal tax credits. 
The Globe said it was told by sources it did not identify that it would be easier to get financing for such a stadium if the Hed Sox were to play there and other events scheduled. 
Financing for a new Boston Garden for the NBA's Boston Celtics and NHL's Boston Bruins is nearly in place, the Globe said it was told. 
'i]'!QlWIJll filiJll\91 ©!Qll!lll1llll111J Necessary Roughness 
4:30 7:00 9:15 
Deceived 
5:00 7:30 9:45 
Butcher's Wife 
4:45 7:15 9:30 
~ilil~fil~@ 
Ernest Scared Stupid 
5:00 7:15 9:15 
Curly Sue 
5:15 7:15 9:15 
Save 
a fife. 
Learn 
CPR. 


page 16 The Observer Thursday, October 31, 1991 
Celtics revamp for NBA opener 
BROOKLINE, Mass. (AP) ­Dee Brown was gone. So was Michael Smith. But Kevin Gamble was on his way back. And Larry Bird agreed to stay for two more years. 
Boston Celtics coach Chris Ford wanted to spend the next to last day of training camp tuning up his team. Instead, he was surrounded Wednesday by a hectic series of comings and goings that may not be over. 
With Brown, who underwent knee surgery Wednesday, and Brian Shaw both ailing, the Celtics were searching for a backup point guard to an overweight John Bagley in time for Friday night's season opener against Charlotte. 
"We haven't had any real con­tinuity," Ford said. 
"There hasn't been a lot of chemistry or honing," senior executive vice president Dave Gavitt said. ''I'm really pretty confident about the long range look at it. I'm nervous about the short range." 
The upheaval continued Wednesday when the Celtics cut five players, including the 6-foot-1 0 Smith, their first­round draft choice in 1989 whose occasional sharpshooting bursts couldn't compensate for his poor defense and rebounding. 
But Gamble, last year's start­ing small forward, signed a re­ported three-year contract Wednesday afternoon. And Bird, who had one year left on his contract, on Wednesday morning signed a two-year ex­tension through the 1993-94 season, reportedly worth at least $4 million per year. 
Bird, believed to be making $7 million this season, left practice without comment, but his attorney Bob Woolf said negotiations were smooth. 
"I wanted it a-s much as he wanted it as much as they wanted it," he said. 
"We're delighted Larry is go­ing to remain as a cornerstone of this franchise," Gavitt said. "There are sufficient protec­tions ... built in for us in terms of his recovery period. 
"He has to play to get paid." 
Bird, who will be 37 and a 15­year veteran at the end of his three-year deal, underwent back surgAry in June after missing 22 games last season. He has been practicing at full speed since training camp be­gan Oct. 4. 
Gamble's contract was be­lieved to be worth about $3.5 million. Gavitt said Gamble has been working out and may play Friday night. 
Cut after practice along with Smith were four free agents, guards Anderson Hunt, Kennard Winchester and Rick Calloway and forward Steve Scheffler. The most important absentee was Brown. 
He underwent surgery Wednesday for cartilage dam­age in his left knee suffered in Tuesday's scrimmage. It was not known how much time he would miss. 
Brown was a rookie sensation last season when he won the slam-dunk competition at the NBA all-star game. 
"It's not anything that's going to inhibit him from having a great career," Ford said of the injury.
-With Shaw missing most of training camp with a variety of injuries, Brown was the start­ing point guard. Now Bagley is the Celtics only point guard. "It was important for players to come into camp with proper conditioning," Ford said. "Anything can happen during 28 days of training camp and now it has." 
McEnroe rattled in defeat 
Chang needed 76 minutes to win the first set in a 9-7 tiebreaker against Gilbert, ranked 102nd in the world. Then, Gilbert used a service break in the eighth game of the second set to even the match. Chang went to another tiebreaker but finally beat the 22-year old Frenchman. 
"The last time I met him he made a lot of errors," Chang said. "This time, he eliminated a lot of them and served well. It 
ended  up  being  a  difficult  
match."  
Chang  qualified  to  meet  

Edberg on Thursday for the fourth consecutive tournament. He lost in the U.S. Open and in tournaments in Sydney and Tokyo. 
Two other seeds lost. Niclas Kulti, another Swede, elimi­nated No. 10 seed David Wheaton 6-3, 6 -3 while Omar Camparese of Italy ousted 13th seed Jakob Illasek of Switzerland 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-3. 
Derrick Rostagno, No. 12 seed, beat France's Davis Cup captain, Yannick Noah, 6-3, 6­3. 
Correction: In the 
Oct. 30 Observer, the player in the women's soccer photo on page 20 was incorrectly identified as Marianne Golitto. The player was in fact Jill Matesic. The Observer regrets the error. 
SMC Observer Office Must be available Mon., Wed., and Fri. afternoons 

Why settle for apa!tY
Contact Jennifer Haybrych 
when you can have aball. 
284-4426 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
1990-91 FINAL NBA STANDINGS 
PARIS (AP) -John McEnroe was ousted by Goran Ivanisevic 6-4, 6-4 in the Paris Open on Wednesday, as the hot-tem­pered American had another run-in with officials. 

Ivanisevic, a Croatian player from Yugoslavia, used a break in each set to beat McEnroe for the third consecutive time. 
At the end of the eighth game of the second set, McEnroe was Boston 56-26 Chicago 61-21 given a penalty point after dis­puting a call that made the
Philadelphia 44-38 Detroit 51-32 
score 5-3 in favor of Ivanisevic. 
New York 39-43 Milwaukee 48-34 
After the game, McEnroe went 
Washington 30-52 Atlanta 43-39 up to the judge and said some­thing.
New Jersey 26-56 Indiana 41-41 
Afterwards, the judge re­Miami 24-58 Cleveland 33-49 ported to the referee what McEnroe said, and the referee
Charlotte 26-56 

made it 0-15 as McEnroe started to serve. McEnroe held his serve despite the disadvan­tage but Ivanisevic won on his own service in the next game. 
Earlier, McEnroe received a warning after throwing his racket after dropping his serve at 4-4 in the first set. 
Portland 63-19 San Antonio 55-27 Stefan Edberg and Boris Becker, the two top-ranked
L.A. Lakers 58-24 Utah 54-28 
players in men's tennis, ad­
52-30
Phoenix 55-27 Houston vanced into the third round. Orlando Top-seed Edberg had a good
Golden State 44-38 31-51 
workout in the second set as he
Seattle 41-41 Minnesota 29-53 
beat fellow Swede, Thomas 
L.A. Clippers 31-51 Dallas 28-54 Hogstedt 6-0, 6-7 (1-7), 6-3. Becker, the second seed, ousted
Seattle 25-57 Denver 20-62 
Austrian Horst Skoff 6-2. 6-4. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Former French Open cham­pion Michael Chang had to bat­
•
••••••••••••••••••••••·~ tie almost three hours to over­
come French qualifier Rodolphe Gilbert 7-6 (9-7), 3 -6, 7-6 (7-1}.
Day Editor needed at 

I $1.00 OFF I 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong I sandwich. Limit five footlong
I I
sandwiches per order.
I I I NotaJ~~~~~~ha~~~ ~~ti~~~?E~Pir~~~~~ at I I I I I 
I ~jll ;IiJl:VM I 
I I 
$1.99 SPECIAL I 
Buy one regular footlong and large I Coca-Cola at regular price. get a 
I
second regular footlong of equal or lesser value or only $1.99. I 
I
Doubie meats not included. Not valid with any other disoounl. • Offer good at all participating k>cattons. • Exp.res 2128192 
I I I
~iil;IOI;Vi 
I 
~----------------------~ 
Thursday, October 31, 1991 The Observer page 17 
formance against Hope. 
"We had no intensity out there," Schroeder-Biek said. 

Braves' Cox Manager of the Year V-ball 

Happy Zist Thug 
~¥e eput-!Ued a ~ et4e lo't ~ 
~Jappy :~ust l1aura 
elain godl 


,_IheRice University Publishing 
Program 

The Rice University Publishing Program, July 13-August 7, 1992, is designed to develop talent, skills and career opportuni­ties for persons interested in book and magazine publishing. The program is designed for students who will be entering their senior year in 1992 and for college graduates. Although participants come from all disciplines, the program has been of particular value to students in English and other Humanities, Journalism, Art, Social Sciences and Business. 
The roster of guest lecturers includes more than 3 5 top professionals in editing, graphics, marketing and production from throughout the country. 
For more information, contact the Office of Continuing Studies, 
Rice University, P.O. Box 1892, Houston, Texas 77251-1892. 
Telephone (713) 520-6022 or 527-4803. 
ATLANTA (AP) -Bobby Cox great personnei.It was just a now has a matched set of great year to manage with this Manager of the Year awards. ball club. I'm a very lucky guy." 
Cox was voted National Cox, 50, won the award with a League Manager of the Year by team built around a nucleus the Baseball Writers and a pitching staff he created Association of America on as general manager. He re­Tuesday after leading the turned to the field in the middle Atlanta Braves to their first of the 1990 season and new GM World Series since 1958, when John Schuerholz completed the the franchise was based in picture by signing key free Milwaukee. Cox also was the agents like infielders Terry 1985 American League Pendleton, Sid Bream and Manager of the Year with Rafael Belliard and reliever Toronto, making him the first Juan Berenguer. man evnr to win the award in After trailing the Dodgers by 9 both leagues. 1/2 games at the All-Star break, 
Atlanta, the worst team in the Braves drove to the NL West basnball in 1990 at 65-97. fin­title, clinching it with an eight­ished 94-68 this year and won game winning streak in the last the NL West title for the first nine days of the season. time since 1982. The Braves, along with the Minnesota They beat Pittsburgh in seven '1\vins, became the first major games to win the NL pennant league teams this century to go and took Minnesota to the sev­from last to first. enth game of the World Series 
tin said the Braves madH his before losing 1-0 in 10 innings. job easy. 
"It was fun to manage a team Two weeks ago, Cox was likn this," Cox said. "I could do named as The Associated Press plnnty of things becausn of the major league Manager of the Year. 
"I don't take this honor lightly. You also don't get to achieve something like this without good players and staff," Cox said. 
"I had great players and great coaches. It's hard not to suc­ceed with a combination like that. It's something that means a lot, but for a lot of reasons." 
Cox is in his second stint with the Braves, whom he managed in 1978-81. He managed the Blue Jays from 1982-85, re­turning to the Braves as general manager after leading Toronto to its first AL East title. 
Cox got 13 first-place votes, 10 seconds and one third for 96 points, easily beating Pittsburgh's Jim Leyland, who got 74 points. Leyland, who guided the Pirates to the NL East title for the second straight year, received nine votes for first, seven for second and eight for third. 
continued from page 20 
conclude their home schedule tonight at 7:00 p.m. against Hillsdale. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek cited the long layoff for fall break as part of the reason for Saint Mary's uninspired per-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•The 
Notre Dame Ski team/club will have a very important meeting Thursday, October 31 at 7 p.m. in Montegomery Theatre in LaFortune. It's Holloween night so meeting will be short! Questions, call Chris 277-7089. 

•A 
women's safety and self-defense course beginning Wednesday November 6 is being offered by Hecsports. The objective of the course is to expose women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Basic karate, judo, and wrestling will be introduced as well as strategies for avoiding dangerous situations and dealing with threatening circumstances. Class meets 12 times on Monday and Wednesday nights from 7 to 8:15 p.m. 

•Women's 
off-campus football will practice today at 5 


p.m. at Stepan Field. 
HEATHER ESSELBORN IS A HOI 
Class 
Great job team! It was a blast Congrats to Steve-our top 
continued from page 13 
scorer. It's OK that we lost 'cause we have an excuse we're IN OVER OUR HEADS 
mark -Anabel 
hey nil HI 
Hear me now and believe me later­1am NOT Lando. Shutup... Shutuuup. ...wond'ring aloud for 
TULL SKULLS "Halloween Headquarters" (and Jeffrey) Masks, make-up, and spider webs! Get your love out of the sink Pumpkins for carving, witchy trolls, and Join us to see JETHRO TULL at 
pumpkin bears! Chic. Th. 11-25. Skeleton earrings, tiny candy tins, and Call Jimmy x1 897 real soon-we'll get good spooky sounds! seats. The Country Harvester (Sure tan isn't Axl, but he is the Second M-F 12-5 Coming). Lower Level LaFortune 
Dick's Marathon 
102 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN • 234-0707 • 289-7622 
This certificate good for 
NE (1) FREE TOW TO OUR STATION FOR REPAIR. 
FREE (Value $45.00) FREE 
Oil lube filter $12.95 +tax and shop fee 
Cash value .001 mills One Certificate Per Visit 

Mini-Golf-In 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST 
INDOOR FAMILY RECREATION CENTER 
1355 N. Bendix Dr., South Bend, IN 46628 289-GOLF 

NOW OPEN 
SUPER PRIZE GIVEAWAY 
• Super NES System & other prizes 
Visit Mini-Golf-In during our Grand Opening and be eligible for all prizes. 
Just north of Linconway West in Bendix Plaza. " \ 
~v· 

ClevclandRd. NO \O'( ~ 
Bde A ~\)~ _ __,El"-'w""oo""d'-"So::.t.--1 
a 

i ·Indoor Miniature Golf 
• 
Video Arcade & Snack Bar 

• 
Parties for All Occasions 


• All U Can Play Nite Monday -$5 per person 
CLIP THIS AD AND BRING TO MINI-GOLF-IN FOR A FREE GAME OF MINIATURE GOLF WITH THE PURCHASE OF ONE GAME. 
Another factor was the sub­par performance of junior Karen Lorton. One of the na­tion's leaders in NCAA Division III in kills per game, Lorton only managed six total in the match against Hope. 
Kiley Coble contributed to this report. 
Top quotes from Ruby's Appalachian paradise 
10. It was a dark night, unlike right now 9.what are the chances of a guy taking you home tonight? 8.this is where we got lost last time ?.What is trim? 6.where's your daddy? He's in jail 5.stop. I want to see your penis 
4. why do you have sandwich bread on your van? 3.what people don't realize is that poor widow Brown is collecting a black lung check from her dead husband 2.anyone can paint 1.we don't need to dance, we can just go out in the back 
FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TO PICK ­
UP AT 3:30 AND CARE FOR 7 YR. OLD 3­
4 HRS. THEREAFTER. STAY OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A WEEK (MY 
HOME KNOLLWOOD/GRANGER AREA) AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. START 

NOV. 13 THRU END OF YEAR. WEEK OF X-MAS OFF. (NEED FREQUENTLY THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 WEEKLY. MUST BE RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE. REFERENCES. CALL DONNA @ 277­8269. 
Babe, Love you EVER so muchtltl Sweetie 
Hey Sherry, Just though I'd take this opportunity to tell you that you're totally cool. Guess Who? 
Jaime is a techmo-bowl wimp. PSYCHE 

M Whit Stillman's 

l'letropolitan 
~ :r 
K.I••-J,i.-.11' •

IPG-13I~. NEW LINE CINEMA 
c ,... W,...,ly f;l •• All R;~,. R.-"•J. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
Friday 7:30 & 9:30 Saturday 8:30 & 10:1 S 

~ 
page 18 The Observer 
Men's soccer blanks W. Michigan 
By JASON KELLY Irish coach Mike Berticelli Freshman goalkeeper Bert Sports Writer echoed Pendergast's remarks, Bader collected two saves in the but was quick to note that the shutout. 
After seeing a seven game bad weather conditions hin­Offensively, the Irish notched winning streak come to an end dered both teams. 12 shots on goal, but six saves over fall break, the Notre Dame "Weather is an equalizer," he by Western Michigan goalie men's soccer team got back on commented. "I expected us to Matt Borkowski kept the Irish the winning track Wednesday play much better than we out of the net for much of the night with a 1-0 win over played tonight, but to play night. Western Michigan. poorly and still win is a sign of Sunday afternoon marks the 
The Broncos brought a six­maturity." end of the regular season as the game winning streak into the One player who displayed a Irish put their 10-4-2 record on game, but couldn't penetrate lot of maturity was senior cap­the line against Kentucky at the stingy Irish defense in the tain Kenyon Meyer. Playing the Alumni Field. Post-season play wet conditions at Moose Krause second half with an ankle in­begins next Thursday in Stadium. jury, Meyer fought for a loose Indianapolis at the Midwestern 
"They had some good chances ball in front of the net and set Collegiate Conference to score," commented junior up freshman Tim Oates for tournament. The winner of the Kevin Pendergast, "but they Notre Dame's lone goal early in MCC title earns an automatic never had a clean opportunity." the second half. bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Despite the shutout, however, "Kenyon Meyer deserves a lot the team wasn't happy with of credit," said Berticelli. "He Notre Dame's 4-1-1 MCC their overall performance. played on a badly sprained an­record was good enough to tie 
"I don't think anyone on the kle and created that goal purely for second place with Loyola. team can be too happy with the from second effort." The Irish will have to settle for way we played tonight," That goal proved to be all the the number-three seed in the 
Pendergast noted. "We're Irish would need, as the defense tournament, however, due to 
happy with the win, but we allowed the Bronco front line the season opening loss to the 
didn't play as well as we could." only seven shots on goal. Ramblers. 
Items 
continued from page 20 

loss rate among contributing alumni does not allow the Alumni Association and athletic department to serve the University's largest constituency and therefore is not in the best interests of the University as a whole." 
•"That 
a plan for allocation of the additional tickets resulting from the desired expansion be drafted with maximum priority given to contributing alumni." 

•"That 
the study ... examine the possibility of expanding the seating capacity of Notre Dame Stadium while maintaining its architectural and aesthetic character" (emphasis added). 


This last item is the most important part of the resolution according to Leqnon. 
"Notre Dame is not a schmaltzy organization," he pointed out. "I don't think we'd 
SPORTS SHOAlS 

put up a building that wouldn't blend into the architectural style of the university." 
So far, the University has not named the members of the study committee, and has only had an initial meeting to discuss what types of things to include in the study. One choice which will not come before the committee, however, is a new stadium. 
"Building a new stadium is not an option," Beauchamp asserted. "If we can't add on to the old stadium, that's it." 
Preliminary costs cited by Beauchamp are in the $30-$40 million range, but as he noted, these are only ballpark figures. 
And finally, what would the new stadium look like if it were to be expanded? 
According to an article in the USC game program by Sports Information Director John Heisler, an independent study project conducted by a group of ND architecture students in 1989 provides a hint. 
Thursday, October 31, 1991 

A stadium model that maintained the brickwork surrounding the stadium and its basic architecture also added a freestanding second deck and new press box, enlarging seating capacity from its current 59,075 to around 80,000. 
The model, however, would look like a horseshoe from high above, with an open end on the north side to preserve the view of the Library and the famous 

"Touchdown Jesus" mosaic. And if present graduation ...--~ 917 W. McKinley, Mishawaka Novelties 
Cards 

rates continue, those additional ~(Across from Town & Country) 
Party SuppliesGifts
20,000 seats might be '(::=:::; (219) 256-9075 
necessary. According to Cunningham, current trends project out to only a 26 percent 
success rate per game by 1996 I0% Student Discount 
without expansion. 
Store Hours

"We have made more tickets 
Not valid

available to the alumni in re­Mon-Wed 9-5:30 cent years, but there's no way 
Sill withany

we can add more to keep up Thurs -Fri 9 -8:00 with demand," Beauchamp other coupon
said. Sat 9-2:00 

Learn What 
Banking Has To Offer You. 
Find out about trends in banking and how the economic outlook for the 1990s is likely to affect the financial services industry. And if you're interested in learning about a career with one of the country's most respected financial institutions, we'll be interested in talking with you. Representatives from Northern Trust in Chicago will visit Notre Dame on Monday, November 4. Please join us then to discuss opportunities in our Commercial Lending and Trust & Financial Services Training Programs. All students are 


Northern Trust Ban:K 
The Northern Trust Company 50 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675 
Affiliates are located in Arizona, California, Florida, and Texas. Equal Opportunity Employer 

Thursday, October 31, 1991 The Observer page 19 
SPIN JOHN MONKS THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER ,.. 


Much overshadowed by the Boston Tea Party Is the New York Beer Party of 1773. 
The nightly crisis of Todd's stomach vs. Todd's imagination 

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8724 


..
CASINO 
Untfe-r the Dome 
()ate: ~()l'ember 1, 1991 (durinf1 lEnjoy the games of 
l)arents• Week.end) trollllReUe, Mackjaclk., craJPIS, West Wine ()f S()uth mnlne t!all 
and more!~ Time: s J>M -11 J>M 
Cf[J).[f[E AVMISSIUN f()~ SJU[)fNTS AND J>A~fNTS 

STUDENT UNION BOAR[) 
--~--­

____________________________________________________. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 

1 Cowboy's panatela 6 Footwear component 14 One-celled animals 16 Dealer in women's 
hats 17· Cut into sma 11 pieces 18 Distance from the 
x-axis 19 Suffix for differ 20 Military headdress 22 Mr. Rather 23 Miss Carter 25 "-so many
children... " 28 Prefix: wine 29 Virgil hero (var.)31 Flaming 32 Kitty's cry33 Quite a few 35 Ending for ham or 
sem 
36 Certain part of 
Congress (2 wds.)42 Mr. Bellow 43 Spiritual meeting 44 Have title to 47 Salt trees 49 "Darn itI" 50 -volente 
51 Slangy head 53 "And mine ­one"--Shakespeare54 Pulver's rank (abbr.)55 Metallurgy device (var.)57 Organization for 
Greg Norman 58 legato's opposite 62 Organized massacre 64 Actor who played 
Gene Krupa (2 wds.)65 Calm 66 Concisely witty 
phrase 67 lock of hair 
DOWN 
1 Uniformity2 High rank or 

position 3 "-My Mind" 4 As easy as ­5 Actress Charlotte, 
and family6 A speakeasy, nearly 
always (2 wds.) 7 Emporer of note 8 like Methuselah 9 Mr. Wallach 
10 -Yutang 11 Wreath for the head 12 Fuel hydrocarbon 13 Before this time 
(poet.)15 Old-English letters 21 Shout of discovery24 Zhivago's love 26 Oratorio solos 27 All dressed up 30-example 34 Alliance acronym 37 Divided skirt 38-avis 39 Painting the town 
red (3 wds.) 40 Stop sign shapes41 French ladies 44 City in Texas 45 Started a fight
(2 wds.) 46 -diet 
48 Road sign 52 Napoleon and Haile Selassie (abbr.)56 Robert Burns, for 
one 59 Roman 901 60 Armed forces head 
(abbr.) 61 Black cuckoo 63 Dog's snarl 

CAMPUS 
Thursday 

5:30 p.m. Presentation for anyone interested in discovering career opportunities with Goldman Sachs. Foster Room, 3rd Floor, La Fortune Student Center. 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. Halloween costume dance for student, faculty, staff and their families and the Big Brothers/Big Sisters organizations at Stepan Center. Prizes will be awarded at 8:45 
p.m. Sponsored by Sesquicentennial Student Aetivity Committee. 
-
LECTURES 
Thursday 

4 p.m. Colloquium, "Spanish Theologians and Native Americans in the Years After Columbus," Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. Hoom C­103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
MENU 
Notre Dame  ..  
Rolled Bacon and Cheese Omelet Rolled Cheese Omelet BBQ Chicken California Eldorado Casserole  
Saint Mary's Halloween Buffet Roast Beef Beef Stew BBQ Pork Ribs Stir Fry  •  

r---------------------· 
page 20 Thursday, October 31, 1991 
Sports 
Women's soccer victorious 
2-1 win over Wright St. finishes perfect home season 
By MIKE SCRUDATO neck muscle, and Jill Matesic troversial offsides call on Zilvitis Sports Writer was on the bench for a portion nullified what would have been of the second half with a a breakaway. 
A conflict in styles and the sprained right ankle. The in­Wright State got on the board cold, rainy South Bend weather jury to Kurek forced tri-captain first on goal by Joanne Paxton, almost led to an upset yesterday Marianne Giolitto, a midfielder, the Raiders leading scorer, 1:26 
at a saturated Alumni Field, but to start on defense. into the game. She took a shot the 13th-ranked Notre Dame "It was a big adjustment for from ten yards out, which Irish women's soccer team prevailed her [Giolitto]. She played very keeper Michelle Lodyga was 2-1 over Wright State to remain well in the second half after she able to get in front of; however, perfect at home and up its settled down," Petrucelli com­the wet ball slipped through her record to 14-1-2. mented, "It would have been a hands. 
"The condition of the field had totally different game if Andie The Irish countered at the a big impact on the way the [Kurek] were playing." 20:02 mark when Jodi Hartwig game was played," Irish coach The game-winner came on a stole the ball from Brown, beat 
-Chris Petrucelli said, "We Tiffany Thompson penalty kick a defender, and put the ball into 
.. 
couldn't play our style; we like five minutes into the second the net. 
to keep the ball on the ground. half which broke a 1-1 dead­The game then remained We had to play the ball in the lock. The kick was a result of even until Thompson's penalty air. They were bigger and tri-captain Susie Zilvitis break­kick. stronger than us, and that ing through two Wright State Overall the game was rela­played right into their hands." defenders. She then attempted tively even, and Petrucelli was 
The changes in strategy led to a cross which was knocked relieved about coming out on 
a change in the lineup. Leading down by a hand ball in the box top in a game in which the con­scorer Stephanie Porter was and caught by the referee, who ditions pointed to an upset. moved back to midfield in an awarded Notre Dame the "I think we might have been attempt to counter Wright penalty kick. looking ahead a little bit to the State's size advantage. Earlier in the game the Irish weekend [when the Irish take 
In addition to the adverse had three excellent opportuni­on 11th-ranked Central Florida conditions, the Irish once again ties to take the lead. Twice and Florida International on the had to overcome some crucial Wright State goalkeeper Leigh road]," Petrucelli added, "I am injuries on defense. Andrea Ann Brown turned away direct happy to get out of here with a Kurek sat out due to a pulled kicks by Thompson, and a con-win." 

Irish volleyball defeats Louisville again Saint Mary's volleyball falls at the hands of Hope
-
By RENE FERRAN preparing for tonight's match, quit, chipping away at the lead and we were pretty successful until it was down to 14-13, be­
Associate Sports Editor 
at neutralizing their best hit­fore a Louisville error closed ters," said Notre Dame coach out the game. 
There must be something 
Debbie Brown. "They "It took a little too long forabout Louisville that brings out (Louisville) didn't do things a lot my liking, but the importantthe best in Notre Dame's vol­differently than from the last thing was that we got the fif­leyball team. 
time we played." teenth point," Brown said.
Earlier this year, the Irish de­
The Irish defense was out­"That was very important tofeated the Cardinals in four 
standing, making 21 blocks and determining the outcome of the games at the Big Four Classic in frustrating Cardinal attackers match, to win that first game." 
Louisville, Ky. to start a season­time and again with rally-sav­After winning the secondhigh five-game winning streak. 
ing plays. Junior Jessica game, however, Notre DameLast night at the Joyce ACC, Fiebelkorn led Notre Dame's coasted into game three, andNotre Dame and Louisville defensive charge with 22 digs, Louisville (20-6) took advan­faced off for the second time. 
with freshman Kristy Peters tage. The Irish committed fourAnd once again, the Irish came adding 14. costly service errors as the
out on top in four games, 
The Irish established control Cardinals raced out to a 12-1
knocking off the 20th-ranked 
early in the match, building a edge.
Cardinals 15-13, 15-8, 5-15, 
14-7 lead in the first game with Brown inserted senior Chris15-12 to improve their record junior Alicia Turner leading the Choquette at this point, and her
to 14-7 and win their fourth 
way with five kills and a service play inspired a late charge from match in a row. 
ace. But the Cardinals wouldn't Notre Dame which built"We spent a lot of time momentum heading into game
.. 
four. 

"We got a spurt of four points there late, and just getting those points helped going into the fourth game," Brown said. "Give Louisville credit, though, for coming out as strong as they did." 
The match appeared destined for a fifth game when the Cardinals grabbed an 11-8 ad­vantage behind the play of ju­nior Shannon Misek (26 kills, 20 digs) and sophomore Becky Verst (16 kills). 
Notre Dame rallied back, however, scoring three straight points to tie the game. The Cardinals retook the lead 12­
• 
11, but from there, the Irish closed out the match with four points in a row-the last com­ing on a Peters ace. 
"When you're in control of a match like we were, you defi­nitely want to win that fourth game and close it out," Brown said. "We just became deter­mined that we were going to win the match in that fourth game." 
On the other side of U.S. 31, the Saint Mary's volleyball team lost Tuesday evening to Hope College 11-15, 10-15, 11-15 in Holland, Mich. The Belles (8-14) 
see V-BALL /page 17 

NO Stadium to face expansion? 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association Board adopted a resolution at its September meeting endorsing the University's feasibility study concerning the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium. 
Association Director Charles Lennon, however, doesn't want this interpreted as a blanket desire for expansion. 
"We've simply asked the university to address the prob­lem-the problem that over 50 percent of alumni don't even have a chance at winning tickets in the lottery," he explained. 
But what does that 50-percent figure entail? 
According to ticket manager Bubba Cunningham and as­sistant Perry Baert, there are 16,300 tickets available for alumni who contribute at least $50 yearly to the University ($25 for recent graduates and those who graduated at least 35 years ago). 
Over 40,000 eligible grads returned applications for tickets this year, with requests for up to all 12 games on the schedule. These requests are then sorted out per game, and a lottery is performed among them for the available tickets, with the most popular games drawn for first. 
The 50-percent figure (52 to be exact) thus refers to the average number of requests per game which do not win in the lottery. But there is more. 
Once an applicant wins on one of his requests, his other applications are given lower priority in the remainder of the lotteries-but the possibility still remains that one alumnus could win more than one game, while another may win none. 
Further, some of the applicants only mark down one or two games, and may be a loser in both lotteries. And, in a special deal due to lower-than-expected student ticket sales this year, some alumni who did not win tickets to a specific game were contacted and received tickets if they were available for that particular Saturday-some five to six hundred, according to Baert, were accommodated in this manner. 
When all this is taken into account, approximately 10 per­cent of all applicants, whether for one or all games, did not receive tickets to at least one game this year. 
Is this figure enough to warrant an expansion of the football stadium? That's what this study is to discover. 
"First of all, we have to ask, is there a need, and if so, what is that need," said Executive Vice President William Beauchamp. "Then you have to look at the-ability to expand the stadium, determine what it would look like, can we pre­serve that architectural integrity of the stadium? 
"Once that discussion has taken place, you also have to look at costs, how the expansion might be funded, where the money would come from, and how the expansion might add to the campus as a whole. 
"The bottom line, if we were to add on to the stadium," Beauchamp continued, "is that it would have to be funded in such a way as to not take resources away from any other program." 
Lennon provided a copy of the Alumni Board's resolution to The Observer. Its recommendation for "the University ... (to) review the football facilities and ticket policy ... with all due expediency" also emphasizes the following points: 
•"That the current situation with a greater than 50 percent 
see ITEMS I page 18 








