
Wll~fflt~~~t -Q~. 


---1!1--­
1142·1f92 

Saint Marx's Collegg
IISQUICINIINNIAL 

NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1991 VOL. XXIV NO. 2 5 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

U.N. approves plan to end team detention 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Moving to "reiterates its demand that the defuse the latest standoff with Saddam inspectors ... be released immediately," Hussein, the Security Council on Thurs­but didn't object to "a joint inventory of day accepted an Iraqi proposal aimed at documents and materials" in this ending the three-day detention of U.N. particular case. weapons Inspectors In Baghdad. Rolf Ekeus, head of the U.N. Special 
The Inspectors have been held In a Commission charged with disposing of Baghdad parking lot since they Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, uncovered documents describing Iraq's estimated it would take less than 24 secret nuclear weapons program. hours to catalog all the documents, film 
Under the plan, diplomats said the and videotape, and that not all 44 documents, photographs and videotapes inspectors would be needed for the task. will stay in the possession of the in­However, it was not certain when the spectors while they and Iraqi authorities inspectors might actually be released. prepare a catalog of them. Ekeus said "we are not talking hours" 
Iraq had initially demanded that the before the team is released because team relinquish the documents, which arrangements need to be made with the the Inspectors refused to do. Iraqis. But he added: "We have worked 
Later, the council also issued a out very sound arrangements, and we statement saying that It "deplores Iraq's expect Iraq to say 'yes' to that, and then repeated violations of its obligations" we can work quickly." under U.N. resolutions demanding Its Earlier Thursday, Iraqi citizens held cooperation with the destruction of its government-sanctioned demonstrations terror weapons. 
see U.N. I page 4 
The statement said the council 
Speaker claims 1980s movement forced nuclear arms negotiations 
politicians credited this breakthrough to the intense nuclear arms buildup that oc­
By CARA ECKMAN 
curred during the Reagan ad­
News Writer 
ministration. According to Cortright, Secretary ofThe peace movement of the 1980s State George Shultz once commented
Increased the public's awareness of 
that if there had really been a peacenuclear threat and forced the Reagan movement, there would be no INFadministration into nuclear arms nego­Treaty.
tiations with the Soviet Union, according Supporters of what Cortright referred to David Cortright, former director of 
to as the "peace through strength"
SANE (Committee for Sane Nuclear stance assert that the Soviets ap­Polley). 
proached the negotiating table out ofAt a brown bag seminar on Thursday concern about Reagan's SOl (Strategicat the Hesburgh Center for International Defense Initiative) plan. 
Studies, Cortright presented an overview Cortright argued against the peaceof his new book, "Peace Works: Peace through strength stance by saying thatMovement Impact During the 1980s." 
before the Introduction of the SDI plan,
Although nuclear freeze activists 
the U.S. rejected Soviet attempts at arms
perceived the signing of the INF 
negotiation proposals. The negotiation(Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces) 
Bob Scalise, a sophomore from Fisher Hall, finds he doesn't need his umbrella as 
Treaty in 1987 as a victory for the peace 
he passes his time on the steps of the ·Architecture' building Wednesday afternoon. 
movement, said Cortright, many 
see PEACE I page 4 
Protesters clash with police; call for premier's resignation 

BUCHAHEST, Romania (AP)­ that the army will resolutely do  Roman became the first East  home early Thursday, saying  Wednesday, and briefly entered  
Anti-government protesters,  its duty to restore and maintain  European leader since the anti­ their "task was completed"  it before being pushed back by  
iflcluding miners squeezed by  the state of law," the ministry  Communist revolution swept  once  Roman quit. But many  police.  
austerity policies, clashed with  was quoted as saying.  through the region to fall victim  miners stayed in Bucharest,  An estimated 2,000 to 3,000  
soldiers before dawn Friday as  At 3 a.m. Friday more clashes  to a-backlash· against market  where government opponents  people later headed to the tele­ 
the opposition demanded that  occurred around the TV station  reforms to treat decades of  joined in the street protests.  vision center, the scene of fierce  
President Ion Iliescu follow his  and on Bucharest's downtown  Communist malaise.  Iliescu, in a broadcast speech,  fighting during the December  
prime minister and resign. Premier Petre Roman said  University Square for an hour. At the square several hundred  The government's reforms have sliced standards of living,  said consultations had begun on a new government. Parliament  1989 revolution that ousted Communist dictator Nicolae  
Thursday that he would step  miners  and  some  other  widened the gap between rich  created  a  commission  to  Ceausescu. Heavy smoke from  
down, and called the violence a  protesters battled with police  and poor, and sent inflation  investigate economic and social  exploding tear-gas grenades  
"communist coup." But his an­ arriving in armored  police  soaring to 170 percent.  problems, and the living condi­ billowed over the thousands of  
nouncement failed to end the  trucks.  Thousands of miners, many  tions of the miners, the state  protesters swarming the streets  
protests, which threatened to  The police stopped at metal  wielding iron bars and clubs,  news agency Rompres said.  around the building.  
explode  into  a  major  con­ barricades near the square,  arrived in Bucharest Thursday  Outside parliament, which  Gunshots  could  be  heard  
frontation between the ruling  where the protesters hurled  on trains they commandeered  was stormed and vandalized on  Thursday night around the  
National Salvation Front and  firebombs while police fired  in central Homania to join the  Wednesday,  angry  miners  fenced-off TV center, which was  
angry workers in  one of Eu­ tear gas grenades to clear the  4,000 colleagues who came a  loudly demanded Iliescu's res­ guarded by several hundred  
rope's poorest countries.  square.  day earlier.  ignation, while inside, another  soldiers  in  riot  gear.  But  
Three people died in riots  Several people  were  seen  "Don't be afraid, Iliescu will  miners leader, Petre Baiescu,  Hompres said guards had only  
Wednesday, and by Thursday  taken away by ambulance, but  fall," jubilant miners shouted  warned shocked deputies that  set off firecrackers to try to  
afternoon, the number of in­ it was not clear how many were  from  captured  trucks  they  the protest was out of control.  disperse the crowd.  
jured had climbed to 284, the  injured in the exchanges.  drove through the city.  "Who is to blame if you do not  The protests marked the most  
state  news agency Hompres  The miners seek "the dissolu­ The ruling National Salvation  find a solution and the miners  serious crisis for Romania since  
said.  tion of all the democratic insti­ Front called on the army and  outside cause new bloodshed?"  June 1990, when thousands of  
The 2-year-old government,  tutions in this country," Roman  Interior Ministry to restore  he asked.  miners went on  a  three-day  
in a communique carried late  told the French TV network TF- order, urged Iliescu to summon  Some miners defied the tight  rampage in Bucharest that left  
Thursday by state radio and TV,  1 on Thursday. "Homania has  the country's Supreme Defense  guard of 30 armored personnel  six dead.  
said the Defense Ministry was issuing live ammunition to units guarding public buildings. "We assure the population  broken with Communism for too short a time for the old structures and mentalities to be able to disappear."  Council and appealed to Ho­manians to stay home. Miron Cosma, the miners' chief, urged his comrades to go  carriers and several hundred heavily armed police and sol­diers around the government building, which they stormed  On that occasion, Iliescu summoned the miners to defend him against anti-governmen. protesters.  

page2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

For a change, give alternative music a try 
The Who finally got one right. Rock is dead, or at least classic rock is for that matter. The classic rock radio format has been beaten to death for far too long now. How many times can you 


hear the same 1000 songs on Rich Kurz radio stations in every town A 5 5 0 c i a I e in the entire country without Sport5Editor getting bored of it? Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the classic rock format is the drain it has put on new music.­Over the summer, I saw a rock block of Tom Petty videos on MTV. The contrast between his old songs and these new records that he tries to pass off as music is unbelievable. And so far, there are probably only three groups from the past decade that will qualify as greats of our generation, as bands whose influence will dominate the airwaves. Two of those groups-REM and U2-received most of their early airplay on alternative stations. Guns n' Roses is the only thing resembling a real rock band to emerge in the last few years. Now maybe this position is a bit radical. I can understand that. The point I want to make is that there are too many new and talented groups that don't get any airplay who have something new and exciting to offer. At the same time, groups that haven't existed for nearly 30 years are still being played on a consistent basis. 
Perry Farrell, the leader singer for Jane's Addiction, recently lamented on the state of music in America. The point he made was that kids today grow up listening to the same stuff their parents did, while the newer groups making the music of our generation are largely ignored. 
"If you glorify the past, the future dries up," sings U2's Bono in "God Pt.2." Where is the future of music going to go without contributions from these alternative groups? Before you jump to any conclusions, stop and think about the influence of alternative musjc. "Losing My Religion" was a number-one hit for 
R.E.M. this summer, but it wasn't very many years ago that the boys from Athens, Ga., were the exclusi~ domain of alternative radio. Groups like INXS, Jesus Jones and Depeche Mode used to be strictly alternative groups, until they became so popular that you could turn on just about radio station and hear groups like these playing. 
Even cornerstones of the classic rock format, artists like Led Zepplin and Jimi Hendrix were incredibly progressive for their time. Sadly enough, if they emerged today, they would be relegated to the progressive stations. So if your musical tastes are limited to classic rock, or even Top 40 for that matter, why not give alternal_ive music a try? You have nothing to lose. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Fridays Staff 

News  Production  
Frank Rivera  Kelly Lynch  
Steve Zavestowski  Peggy Crooks  
Spans  Graphics  
Rene Ferran  Brendon Regan  
Etc.  Ann M. Conrado  
Shonda Wilson  Illustrations  
Anna M. Tabor  Dave Devine  
Cristina Ortiz  Irish Football  
Jeannie Shin  Kristen Castello  
VIewpoint  Lab Technician  
Brian Stalter  Macy Hueckel  
Jason Thomas  Scoreboard  
Caroline Giannuzzi  Rich Szabo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INDIANA 

Barbara Bush to visit Indianapolis 
• 
INDIANAPOLIS -Barbara Bush and Education Secretary Lamar Alexander plan to join hundreds of Indianapolis high school students next week to kick off the state's "America 2000" plan. The initiative launched by President Bush sets goals for graduation rates, adult literacy rates and drug-free schools in an effort to improve education. The First Lady and Alexander are scheduled to address students and staff at local schools as well as community members, city and state leaders next Thursday. But the Indiana Department of Education has not yet confirmed Bush's visit. According to state education officials, Bush's visit would mean a lot in the state's education reform efforts. 

• 
WEST LAFAYETTE-The West Lafay.~tte Police Department has issued warnings to all fans attending Saturday's game. Both the WLPD and Indiana State Excise Police will participate in operation "SUDS' (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales). In two weekends the combined forces have netted over 500 arrests in Uni­versity communities. Police Cap~ain John Balser also warns travellers to get to the game early and be patient 




OF INTEREST 
•ND/SMC dance collective will sponsor two classes today: Ballet, 4:30 room 301 Rockne Memorial and Tap, 
4:30 Regina Hall, SMC. The dance collective will hold auditions for its performing company on Nov. 1. For more information call Elaine at 283-4995. 
•A public auction will be held by Notre Dame Security Saturday at 10 a.m. in Stepan Center. Items to be auctioned include bicycles, calculators, watches and other items that have been lost or abandoned on campus. Doors will open at 9:30 a.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 160.22 Million 212.23 v .69 S&P COMPOSI1E ..IJ­386.49 v .39 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,017.22 ... 3.80 

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD-.!} $ 2.20to $350.80/oz. SILVER.. 10.9¢ to $4.108oz. 
FORECAST: 

Sunny and cool early followed by cloudiness. High from middle to uPi.>er 50s. Clear and cold Friday night. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Athens Atlanta Be~ in Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston lndaanapolls London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow New York New Orleans PariS Philadelphia Rome St. Louis San Francisco Seattle 
South Bend 
Tokyo Washington, D.C 
..•.• .· 

H L 
88 66 81 63 77 55 72 56 57 40 82 50 69 42 61 38 92 78 87 56 65 38 63 55 95 69 75 59 87 80 64 54 75 61 
86 67 63 54 79 64 82 63 69 50 85 55 78 57 61 48 72 64 74 65 
with traffic controllers and parking personnel. Changes have been made in parking procedures to expedite traffic flow following the game two years ago at which traffic was still arriving at half-time. 
CAMPUS NO freshman honored 
• SOUTH BEND -A freshman from the University of Notre Dame has been named a Tandy Technical Scholar for 1990-91. Mary Zawadzki, from Rouses Point, N.Y., is one of 100 students to receive the $1,000 award. Tandy Technical Scholars is a secondary school program designed by the Tandy Corporation to further American technology and to commend academic and personal success in students. The scholars were selected on the basis of grade point average, course work, standardized test scores, honors and community involvement. 
NATIONAL 

Handful of wjdows want estate 
• 
SAN FRANCISCO -Richard Jenkins liked getting married so much that he did it over and over again. Unfortunately, court officials say, he never cared much for getting divorced. After the 53-year-old car rep~ir shop operator died of a heart attack four months ago, three women stepped forward to say they were his legal widows. Two more wives and two ex-wives were located a short time later, as well as a former girlfriend who has demanded child support from Jenkins' $1 million estate. 

•Knights 
of the Immaculata will have a meeting on Sunday, Sept. 29, at 5 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 

•Auditions 
for the Flanner-Seigfried players' Wash­ington Hall Mainstage production of The Christmas Carol will be held on Sunday Sept. 29 and Monday Sept. 30 in the library auditorium at 7 p.m. Auditions are open to everyone For more information call Sherry at 289-7829. 

•weekend 
Wheels will provide free transportation from select off-campus spots to the main circle and library circle, as well as Campus View, Turtle Creek, and Lafayette Square. The route runs from midnight to 3 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights and repeats every half hour. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1939: Warsaw, Poland, surrendered after weeks of resistance to invading forces from Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union during World War II. . 

• 
In 1954: "Tonight!" hosted by Steve Allen, made its debut on NBC television. 

• 
In 1964: The Warren Commission issued a repo_rt concluding that Lee Harvey Oswald had acted alone m assassinating President Kennedy in November 1963. . 

• 
In 1979: Congress gave final appr?val to form1_ng the Department of Education, the 13th Cabmet agency m U.S. 


history. . d -d
• In 1990: The deposed emir of Kuwa1t e 11vere an emotional address to the U.N. Geoeral Assembly mwhich h_e denounced the "rape, destruction and terror" inflicted upon h1s country by Iraq. 
The Observer 

Page 3 
Bush asked to declassify 1980s phone transcripts 
The Observer/Jon Novak 

Pulling for P.W. 
Residents of P.W. gave it their all Thursday in a Jello tug-of-war. Section 48 took top honors in the slippery event that was part of P.W.'s Queen Week. 
Former alum and faculty member Massey to be inducted into engineering academy 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
He taught in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame from 1962-1977, receiving a chaired position in 1972 as the Frank Freimann professor of electrical engineering. 
Massey currently is a profes­sor of digital technology at Swiss Federal Technical Uni­versity in Zurich, Switzerland. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A group of 109 House Republi­cans on Thursday appealed to President Bush to declassify transcripts of conversations between members of Congress and officials of the Sandinista former government of Nicaragua. 
The conversations were picked up by U.S. counterintel­ligence efforts in the mid­1980s, during a time when American policy toward Nicaragua was among the most hotly contested of political is­sues in Congress. 
Led by Rep. Mickey Edwards, R-Okla., the group asked Bush in a letter to make records of the conversations public be­cause they are "potentially so damaging to national security and to the reputation of the House of Representatives that we believe the American people have the right to a full public review." 
The intercepted conversations were confirmed last week in testimony before the Senate In­telligence Committee by Alan Piers, a former CIA official who pleaded guilty to two misde­meanor counts in the Iran-Con­tra affair. 
Piers said he was outraged after he learned of eontacts between Democratic House members and their staffs with the Sandinista government, and prompted then-CIA Director William Casey to confront one lawmaker, Democrat Michael Barnes of Maryland, who no longer is a member of the House. 
But Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman David Boren, D-Okla., said prelimi­nary reports from the CIA have turned up no evidence that any­thing improper was conveyed in the conversations. 
One House member Involved, Democratic Whip David Bonior of Michigan, said the private conversations were to relay what members also were saying publicly: that the Sandinistas should free political prisoners, allow freedom of the press and make other reforms. 
Bonior, Barnes and other Democrats have sought to turn the issue around, saying the use of anything in an intercepted conversation for political pur­poses is improper. Bonior termed it "KGB tactics." 
Asked on Wednesday whether Bush would release the inter­cepted conversations, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said "We don't have a position on that issue." 
But he added, "We have al­ways expressed our disap­pointment in situations where Democratic members of Congress chose to become di­rectly involved in foreign policy matters. And that, of course, is a matter of great concern to us." 
Special to The Observer 
James Massey, a 1956 Uni­versity of Notre Dame graduate and former faculty member at the University, will be inducted into the National Academy of Engineering during ceremonies Wednesday, Oct. 2 in Washing­ton. 
Massey was elected to the academy for his "outstanding contributions to the theory and practice of communication engineering, and for excellence in education." Election to the academy by peers is among the highest honors in engineering. 
After receiving a bachelor's of science degree in electrical engineering from Notre Dame, Massey went on to earn his master's and doctorate from the 
II I I I I I f I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
.. ·········································AJ···:················ ..
1 1 1 1111
•

!·!·!·!·!·!···o.····c.···~t·!·!L·s·· !t 1
·:T· ·:·:·:·:·:·..1 lllllll:l:lll I t 1 1 : I t 1 ttt 
:: 1 :::::::~:~::· I I I ·!: I :: ~::::::::::
II 

:: :::::::::::::•!•!•!•:::.:::·:·:::·:·:·:·:·:::•!•!• : ::::::::::: 
:· ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::: : ::::::::::: 
:: fllltfllllltlllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I llllltlllll
II ::::I::::::: I: I::: I::::::::::::::::: I::~:::::::::: : ::::::::::: 
·· Rl·:·.·.·.·:·:·.···~······rrn··~·.·:M····~·k··· · ··A··m·
· I ·
ws·

:: ·lirn:~r:n:""~r:~:·. : io::' ;,:,:r,: :. : ·· ·. :· 
: ~ ''4'~~~,..,1~ ~:u.~, ., I ~I I I ~"" I 1 I 
·.: : :•:t:l:l:l:l:l:l:::l:l:l:::t:l:::l:l:l:l:::l:t:: I 1:1:1:1:1:: 1 1 11111111111
111111111 d1 11111111111111 1111111 t0h111111P:11111 
I ·Y::: ·~e~ :· ·~~ I ·:···e.··o·n·· u·~· te·~·: ·:wa.·· w.lII I I 1 I I I I 1 1 I 1 11 1 ~ II 1 Ill:·: 1 11 1 1 1 1 11 11 11 1
1 I I I I I I I I 1 1 I I 111 I I I I I I I I I I I 11 I I I I 111 111 )II t tt I
111

.. II ~.~ ... ~.·.···llltlllllllllllllllllllllll ··~·········~·· •••
s ·: :.. :.t:·:·•·:·:cb•·:·:s:·:f:·:~:·:·:·:c~J2a-..: 
.0~1 ~::Y.ll~~L.:)~L.}l.~n::~~j;_::.:d: . 1: 
I I I I lllllallllltltlllt-tltlllilllllltclllllllijlllllllllll I 
O O O a·tI 1 I 1 I I I II -I I It I I I I I I I.. 1 I I 1 I 1
. .. .. ·~~·m·m··. g,, ··u~ .n:g···
I I I I 11.....: I 11 t1 ~I I ~ ~~~ I I 
: : : •!•:::.:::•:•!•!•!•!•:::·:·:::.:::•!•!•!•!•!•!• ..::: 
I I I lllltltlllllllfii(IO ltlllll._llfllllllllllllllllllllll
I IIIIIIIIIIIIIAJOulll. I lit-... lmt1111111111111111111
· ············· · • hi:~u· ·~······~······~·
: :: :::::::::::.:.:........~~~ .. ~ ..:.!::::::::::::::::
11111111 111 1 1 11 11 11 111 1111 
I I t tt 111t t tt tt t t 1t tt 1t tt tt t t1 
~~ ~ ~* l~P.¢.*-; ~pj ~~ l~*-~¢~~~~~4. 
1st~d~~t$: l1ttf:l~l1e~~t; '$1 ~51:;
1 11 111 I I I I I 11 I 1>:1 I I I 11 I I 11 Ill t 1~ I :-c. 
············1·1·1··1···············~···1·1·············~·· 

ND/SMC FAVORITE NIGHT SPOT 
And...of course...the best 
live music in town ONE NIGHT ONLY
FRIDAY, SEPT. 27 
NO FAVORITE BAND
10:00pm 







Poll says consumers feel squeezed 
ANEW YORK (AP) -Consumer confidence In the economy dropped to an eight-month low this week as personal financial worries struck deep Into the middle class, an ABC News­Money magazine poll showed Thursday. 
The drop in confidence rivals the economic gloom that pre­vailed during the Persian Gulf War. 
In addition, the poll showed, pessimism is growing in the West and Midwest, once among the nation's brighter economic spots that some forecasters had said would lead the nation out of recession. 
Consumers rated their per­sonal finances as unsatisfactory for the eighth straight week, a record for the survey. Even among those earning $25,000 
~ GYROS Grand Opening Specials are: Gyro Sandwlch..............•...............................$2.75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger.............................$0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Frles.........•...$1.99 1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dlnner.....................$3.49 Rib Tip Dinner..............................................$4.75 21 Shrimp Dinner...........~·····························$3.79 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread)
Show Student JD and get a free 16 oz. drink with your purchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29th 
: ::: :: :::: :N.ew:tocat:ionis iuiw open: :::::::::: 
~~ p~x~~ ~~Y. ~«?~~ ~(»s~~~4 ;N:e~t:tc? ~9~~~ay ~Jin:27~-Q~ 
· · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive-Thru · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::Hotirs: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :Mt?n~rh:ui:s:tJ:QQ-1;1;09: I;r~-S~t;Ll:QO:-l~:PQ : SU:n:lJ:QQ-~0;()9: 
to $40,000, half reported money difficulties at home. 
Eighty-three percent of re­spondents gave a negative rat­ing to the overall national economy, the most In two months. An almost equal per­centage said they were unwill­ing to spend money. 
The poll was another piece of evidence suggesting the recov­ery heralded by many economists has sputtered. 
It coincided with the release of figures In Washington that showed the overall economy contracted at a 0.5 percent an­nual rate In the spring, worse than first thought. Jobless claims for the week ending Sept. 14 jumped sharply. 
A big drop in consumer con­fidence in the economy also was documented earlier this week 
4 

by the Conference Board, a business research group, In a widely followed monthly survey of 5,000 households. 
The ABC-Money consumer comfort index, based on a scale of plus 100 to minus 100, fell to minus 41 in the latest poll, down three points from a week earlier and the lowest point since Jan. 6. 
Consumer confidence Is critical to helping the economy climb out of recession because consumer spending accounts for about two­thirds of all economic activity. If consumers don't spend, then merchants can't sell, factories lose orders and employers trim their workforces. 
The Federal Reserve Board, in its periodic "Beige Book" assessment of the economy re­leased last week, said depressed consumer spending was impairing recovery. 
The ABC-Money poll suggests consumer willingness to spend hasn't improved since the ma­terial for the Fed report was gathered. Seventy-six percent of respondents called it a bad time to buy items, up two points from a week earlier, and 52 percent rated their personal finances negatively, up one point. 
The ABC-Money Index Is cal­culated from responses to questions about consumer atti­tudes on the national economy, personal finances and the buying climate, based on 1,000 telephone interviews nationwide. 


Try and try again The Observer/Sean Fama 
Members of the Notre Dame Rugby Club practice Thursday at the Colonel Stephens Pitch behind Stepan Center. The club will try to add to its early season success this weekend when ~ plays at home. 
Security Beat 
SUNDAY, sept. 22 

1:45 a.m. AChicago resident reported vandalism to his car while it was parked in Orange Field. 
11:56 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle. 
1 p.m. A visitor from Beckley, West Virginia reported vandalism to his vehicle had occurred sometime after 2 a.m. in the D-6 parking lot. 
2:35 p.m. Agold bracelet was found outside of the Log Chapel and was given to the Notre Dame Security/Police. 
2:45 p.m. An injured Grace Hall resident was treated by the Notre Dame Fire Department at Stepan Field. Notre Dame Security/Police assisted in transporting the student to the St Joseph Medical Center. 
3:15p.m. ANotre Dame Secu· 

rity/Police officer transported an InjuredZanm Hall resident from Stepan Field to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
4 p.m. A cavanaugh resident re-

Peace 
continued from page 1 
process was blocked as a result 
of Reagan's insistence on 
developing SDI, he said. The 
immediate impact of missile 
buildup was a breakdown in 
East-W~st communication. 
The influence of the peace 
movement was manifested in 
the emergence of specific leg­
islativl! and public awareness 
campaigns directed against nu­
clear arms buildup. 
"The various professional, re­
ligious, and cultural groups 
greatly multiplied the discus­
sion and helped to ... raise 
public consciousness," said 
Cortright. 
One particularly influential 
group was the Physicians for 
Social Responsibility, an orga­
nization of physicians opposed 
to the buildup of nuclear arms, 
Cortright said. The group was 
awarded a Nobel Prize for its 
work toward educating the 
public on the medical effects of 
nuclear war. 
The religious community was 
also of vital importance to the 
peace movement, he said, as 
demonstrated by the Reagan 
administration's negative reac­
tion to The Pastoral Letter of 
U.S. Catholic Bishops, which called for a mutual halt to the buildup of nuclear arms. 
He cited the anti-nuclear arms demonstration JieJ(f in New York's Central Park in 1982 as an example of the growing public support for a nuclear weapons freeze. Cor­tright was a member of the rally committee that organized the demonstration, which was attended by over one million people. 
Cortright called the anti-nu­
ported that he lost his keys.  theft occurred on Aug.29, 1991.  
6:16p.m. A Flanner Hall resident  7:40 p.m. An off·C<~mpus student  
reported that his wallet had been stolen  reported he lost a jacket and key ring at  
from his unlocked room on Saturday,  Stepan Field.  
Sept.21.  8:44 p.m. A Farley resident reported  
6:18 p.m. A visitor from Dearborn  the theft of her student football ticket book  
Heights, Michigan reported larceny from  at Saturday's game.  
her truck which was parked at the JACC.  
The incident occurred on Saturday, Sept. 21. 7:29 p.m. A Flanner resident reported the theft of his CO player from his  TUESDAY, Sept. 24 1:48 a.m; A Knott Hall resident reported that l!he lost her student I.D.  
unlocked room. The theft occurred on Saturday, Sept. 21.  3:15a.m. An off-campus student reported that·she lost her keys at Stepan  
9:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated an injured Carroll resident at LaFortune Snident Center. The student was later transported  Center. 2 p.m. An injured University em­ployee was. tr~;~nsported to tile Student Health Center.  
to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 11:13 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported reoeivi ng a harassing phone call.  3:42p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his unattended football helmet on September 19.  ·.  
8:15p.m. Notre Dame Secu­ 
MONDAY, Sept. 23  rity/Police and Fire Department treated an  
9:05 a.m. A Farley rel!ident reported that she lost Mer football tickets at the game on Saturday. 12:05 p.m. A Stanford resident ((!ported the theft of his.!O<ll<ed bicycle from the Rockne Memorial Building.· ThiJ  injured Cavanaugh Han resident and then transported !he student to the St Joseph Medical center. 8:30 p.m. Acanvas bag was found and given to the Notre Dame Security/Pollee.  

Friday, September 27, 1991 
Biosphere II crew embarks on two-year research project 
ORACLE, Ariz. (AP) -Four men and four women on Thursday embarked on a two­year journey inside a stationary glass ark_.:. a fast-food-free trip into what they hope will be an environmentally sounder future of planetary colonies. 
The eight are stewards of Biosphere II, a self-sustaining environment materially sealed off from the world they call Biosphere I -the Earth. The private, for-profit project is in­tended to develop technology to colonize space and improve and understand the Earth. 
~It is a brave new step," said crew member Abigail Alling, 31, of New York. Her voice cracking with emotion, she called the project "a reminder that our future is not fiXed a'nd not final and ever evolving." 
At send-ofT ceremonies before about 1,000 people, Dr. Roy Walford, the oldest crew mem­ber, said, "We are fearful but loving; we court what lurks in the labyrinth, pledging at all odds to make ours an honest destiny." 
After the brief ceremony, the crew members ranging in age from 27 to 67 waved to onlook­ers, exchanged final hugs and kisses with relatives and stepped through airlocks into the 3.15-acre compound that rises out of the desert 30 miles northeast of Tucson. 
After the doors closed, the crew stopped to wave briefly through a window, then disap­peared into the main building. 
Inside the glass-and-steel geodesic-framed complex the size of three football fields are a rain forest with waterfall, ocean with coral reef, savannah, marshes, farm a·nd a modern human habitat. 
From it, the "biospherians" will guide the fortunes of 3,800 plant and animal species on which they'll depend for their food and with which they'll share air, water and waste re­cycling. Planners wanted to use solar panels, but because of the expense opted for generators powered by natural gas -the only import from the outside world. 
The crew's apartments in­clude such luxury items as computers, facsimile machines, telephones, televisions, video­cassette recorders and exercise equipment. 
U.N. 
continued from page 1 
across the nation accusing the 
U.N. arms experts of being spies. "Death to the enemies of Iraq!" chanted the demonstrators, the official Iraqi News Agency said. 
Encircled by Iraqi troops, the inspectors have struggled to keep their spirits high, holding lotteries to make calls home and improvising touch football games, the U.N. team's Ameri­clear sentiment of the 1980s a "cultural phenomenon that had a momentum that was almost unstoppable." In response to this surge of anti-nuclear ac­tivism, a change occurred in the rhetoric used by the Reagan administration to discuss nu­clear arms policy, said Cor­tright. 
Talk of compromise and arms negotiations replaced the previous preoccupation with waging a successful nuclear war. 
"By 1984, Reagan was begin­ning to shift more and more to a conventional arms control position," he said. 
Although short-lived, the nu­clear freeze movement gave the ordinary citizens a voice in the process of developing nuclear weapons policy for the nation, Cortright said. 
Cortright will continue to dis­cuss the peace movement's im­pact next Thursday at 12:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
IMMIGRATION SEMINAR FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND YOUNG PROFESSIONALS 
by the Law Firm of RUND &WUNSCH 
Saturday, September 28, 1991 
10:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. First Floor Auditorium Hesburgh Library 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Speakers: Topics: 
Temporary Worker Visas Robert W. Rund Employment-Based Immigration Cyn111ia R. Sclllesswolll Political Asylum Issues Dingfa Uu Income Taxation Issues for lntemationa 
students and 0111er Nonresidents 
Special Emphasis on 
IMMIGRATION ACT OF 1990 
"Ne"V Opportunities for The Professional" 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 

can leader said Thursday. 

"Everyone's in very good spirits, good health," David Kay told The Associated Press in a satellite telephone interview from Baghdad. 
Before the Security Council decision, Kay said the inspec­tors had the ability to catalog the documents if U.N. officials decided they should do so. 
"Ali we need to know is what are the guidelines and what is practically required and we'll worry about finding ways to do it once policy is set," he said. 
Starting at 5:00 p.m. 

SHONEYS. 
i03 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
Available only a! Shoney's welcomes the II panicipating restaurants. American Express• Card. • Cards 
Friday, September 27,1991 The Observer Page 5 
Yugoslav clashes continue despite talks 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Yugoslav leaders agreed to intensify efforts to turn a tenu­ous cease-fire into a lasting peace Thursday, even as fight­Ing continued in Croatia and possible unrest loomed in the volatile Serbian province of Kosovo. 
Hepresentatives of Yu­goslavia's six republics, meeting in the Netherlands, agreed to broaden the scope of European Community-sponsored peace talks aimed at ending three months of war that have killed about 600 people In Croatia. 
~Differences are still wide, but there has been a narrowing," Henri Wijnaendts, the chief EC negotiator in Yugoslavia said late Thursday after meeting the Croatia's president. 
On Wednesday, leaders of Croatia, Serbia and the Yu­goslav military agreed to seek a peaceful end to the conflict, bolstering a shaky cease-fire signed Sunday. At least five previous truces have failed to stop the fighting. 
Some fighting continued in parts of Croatia. As many as nine people were reported killed and about 20 Injured in clashes overnight and Thursday. 
Croatian media reported Thursday that the federal army had agreed to pull back from Its barracks In the embattled eastern town of Vinkovci, near the Serbian border. 
But Gen. Andrija Raseta, the deputy commander of the Fifth army region which includes much of Croatia, denied reports that the army was withdrawing anywhere. His remarks were published Thursday in NIN, a Belgrade weekly, but it wasn't clear when he made them. 
Fighting in Croatia has pitted Croatian forces against the Serb-dominated army and Serb nationalists opposed to the re­public's June 25 independence declaration. 
Croatia has lost one-third of Its territory in the fighting, and its leaders accuse neighboring Serbia of instigating the war in order to expand its borders to take in ethnic Serbs in Croatia. 
In the Netherlands, the lead­ers of Yugoslavia's six republics and the federal government agreed with EC-mediator Lord Carrington Thursday to begin permanent talks aimed at settling their differences. 
Representatives from all re­publics will meet daily starting next week, Carrington said, fo­cusing on possible changes in the federal makeup of Yu­goslavia and rights of the coun­try's many ethnic minorities. 
The agreement marked the most significant progress in the EC's ongoing efforts to win peace in Yugoslavia. 
The Croatian head of the col­lective federal presidency, Croat Stipe Mesic, meanwhile flew to the United States, where he hoped to address the United 
Nations and meet President 
Bush, said Croatian Vice 
Premier Zdravko Tomac. 
Mesic's power has waned as 
the central government has lost 
authority over the army it 
nominally controls. 
Mesic has alleged that the federal army used poison gas in Croatia. The army on Thursday denied the claim and countered with one of its own -that Croatian forces had used chem­ical weapons in the town of Si­benik, on the Adriatic coast. 
None of the allegations of chemical weapons use circulat­ing In Yugoslavia have been confirmed. 
The U:S. government on Wednesday charged Yu­goslavia's military with unac­ceptable aggression against Croatia, while the U.N. Security Council approved a worldwide arms embargo against Yu­goslavia and all warring fac­tions. 
Earlier Thursday, Croatian radio reported that shelling killed one person and wounded 18 others in Novska, 55 miles east of Zagreb. EC observers were in Novska at the time, the radio said. 
The radio also said that two Croatian guardsmen and two federal soldiers were killed overnight in Nova Gradiska, near Okucani on the main Bel­grade-Zagreb highway. Serbian sources said three reservists were killed in the area. 


... We believe the best sample we can give you is a sample ofcareer success. At Manufacturers, you'll achieve professional success while working in a corporate setting that promotes open communication and values innovative thinking. 
We invite you to explore the diverse range of career options available at Manufacturers when our representatives conduct on-campus interviews: 
Notre Dame 
October 17, 1991 
As a Detroit-based banking leader with assets of $12 billion, we offer a wide variety of professional opportunities in a progressive environment If you are a talented business or economics graduate, contact your placement office for an appointment 
We support a drug-free environment Drug testing is a required step in the employment process. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -'--Two more Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee said Thursday they oppose the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, setting the stage for a close -perhaps evenly split -vote by the panel on Friday. 
Alabama Sen. Howell Heflin, often a pivotal vote on the committee, and Wisconsin's Herb Kohl said they had de­cided against Thomas. But Heflin and other critics con­ceded he is likely to be con­firmed handily by the full Sen­ate, even if he gets a worst­case, 7-7 tie and no recommen­dation from the committee. 
How the grR-ding g11me re11lly works. 
NYU ethics professor Halberstam reveals f<>r the first time the secrets of how teachers determine grades. and how to play the games that will help you get A's. With this guide you will finally learn how to: 
• 
make a good impression in class 

• 
make intelligent guesses on exams 

• 
choose the right major and the right professors 

• 
study more efficiently 


+ and much more "A must for the college bound." -Booklist 
AciNG< 

COLLEGE JOSHUA HALBERSTAM, Ph.D. ...,,... "."""··JO<·"·'h rN~ 
lnok fur Ihe-Pt.N(,t IN 
\J:.J} 
Benin took the Senate floor to deliver a harshly critical assessment of the nominee. Thomas displayed "deceptiveness at worst or muddleheadedness at best" when he tried to disavow past writings in which he had advo­cated using natural or higher law principles to interpret the Constitution, Heflin said. 
While Heflin noted he had voted to confirm other conser­vative justices, ~I am not for an extremist right-wing court that would turn back progress made against discrimination as well as progress that has been made for human rights and freedoms in recent years." 
[] 

Page6 The Observer Friday,September 27,1991 
Report says war on drugs failed to reduce cocaine supply 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Defense Department's effort in the war on drugs has failed to reduce the U.S. supply of co­caine and will never be capable of doing so, says a congres­sional report being released Friday. 
"Interdiction alone cannot raise cocaine traffickers' costs and risks enough to make a dif­ference, regardless of how well DoD carries out its detection and monitoring mission," says the General Accounting Office report. 
Even the Defense Intelligence Agency estimated that the flow of cocaine into the United States did not decrease in 1989 and 1990, said the GAO, a bi­partisan investigative branch of Congress. 
The GAO said the effort fell shot because of the " enormous profits that make interdiction losses inconsequential to drug traffickers and the inability of current technology to efficiently find cocaine hidden in large containers, large vessels, vehi­cles and other conveyances." 
Interdiction efforts account for $2.1 billion of the Bush administration's $11.7 billion drug war budget request for fiscal year 1992, beginning Oct. 
1. The Defense Department's detection and monitoring efforts amount to $892.6 million. 
Overall, supply reduction ef­forts account Jor 70 percent of the budget request for the war on drugs, with demand reduc­tion efforts allotted 30 percent. 
Rep. John Conyers, Jr., D­Mich., chairman of the House Government Operations Com­mittee, said the GAO's findings are "just one more piece of evi­dence that the administration is losing and mismanaging the war on drugs." 
"It is distressing to learn that what we are doing is achieving so little, and to see that we have spent billions and billions of dollars in the process," said Conyers, who requested the re­port. 
The report, Conyers said, "is proof positive that we must now shift our drug spending priorities to stop the demand for drugs through education, treatment, and prevention. At the same time, we should be helping Andean nations develop alternate economies besides coca production." 
John Walters, chief of staff of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, defended the administration's interdiction efforts, saying they help reduce the drug supply both through 
U.S. seizures and through in­formation the United States provides to foreign countries. 
"The amount of cocaine seized by federal authorities is exceeded by the amount seized by foreign countries in cooper­ation with us," and that has grown markedly in the past two years, he said. 
Walters, whose office devel­ops the National Drug Control Strategy, said Thursday that he 
had not yet seen the GAO re­
port. 
Walters stressed that the De­
fense Department's anti-drug 
efforts do not represent addi­
tional outlays of money. 
"We're using excess military . capacity on a national priority," 
he said. "It's the peace dividend 
applied to the drug war." 
Army Lt. Col. David Super, 
spokesman for the Pentagon's 
anti-drug effort coordinator, 
said Thursday that he could not 
comment on the GAO report un­
til it was released formally. 
Congress two years ago gave 
the Defense Department the 
leadership of all federal efforts 
to detect and monitor drugs 
smuggled by air and sea. How­
ever, the actual interdiction ­
the interception and arrests of 
drug smugglers and seiz)lres of 
contraband -is carried out by 
civilians in the Customs Service 
and the Coast Guard. 
The Defense Intelligence 
Agency said its estimate that there was no reduction in U.S. cocaine supplies in 1989 and 1990 "was the consensus of the intelligence agencies," the re­port said. It was used by the Office of National Drug Control Policy in a classified national cocaine threat assessment it is­sued in May, the GAO said. 
However, the GAO noted that the drug control office contra­dicted that assessment in a technical paper, prepared by a contractor, that it released in June. 
AT AlAR'S 

Now that you've danced 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azaf's. 
I 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• Five Fluffy Omelettes 
• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy 


Desserts ·More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 

The next time you•re not quite to call it a night. heao to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all· 
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
AF~­
BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 



Friday, September 27,1991 The Observer Page? 
Senate passes $269.7 billion Pentagon spending plan for 1992 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate passed a 1992 defense spending bill Thursday that keeps alive the B-2 stealth bomber program but puts off until next year a final decision by Congress on whether to spend $3.2 billion on four more planes. 
The bill, providing $269.7 bil­lion for the Pentagon in the budget year starting Oct. 1, meets most of President Bush's requests for big-ticket weapons, Including $4.6 billion for the Strategic Defense Initiative to build a missile .defense. 
The bill was passed on a voice vote. 
The measure, which will be reconciled with the already­passed House version of the Pentagon budget, cuts the ac­tive-duty military force by 106,000 people and makes other changes to accelerate the shrinking of the American mili­tary. 
The main element of the bill that conflicts with administra­tion policy is a provision per­mitting U.S. servicewomen and spouses of servicemen to have abortions performed at their own expense at U.S. overseas military installations. 
The House version of the de­fense spending bill contains no abortion provision. Bush has said he would veto the defense bill if abortion were included. 
In votes on a series of amendments to the bill during two full days of debate, the Se­nate: 
-Defeated a proposal to cancel B-2 bomber production after the 15 already authorized by Congress. The vote of 51-48 was the narrowest margin of victory for B-2 supporters in numerous B-2 votes in recent years, including one just two months ago. The House bill eliminates money for further purchases of B-2s. 
-Killed plans to spend $225 million for tests on a rail-mobile MX nuclear missile. Opponents of the test said it was a waste of money since the Pentagon currently has no plans to convert the silo-based MX in­tercontinental ballistic missile to one that could be fired from rail cars. The House bill in­cludes $250 million for the test. 
-Defeated an attempt to cancel the troubled Seawolf nu­clear attack submarine. Although acknowledging that far fewer of the Seawolfs are likely to be purchased than originally planned, the Senate approved $1.8 billion for one of the subs, the same amount as in the House bill. 
-Defeated by a 50-49 vote an attempt to reduce the bill's provision for spending on the Strategic Defense Initiative to $3.5 billion. The bill in its final form included $4.6 billion for the project, which is attempting to build a ground-and space­based defense against ballistic missiles. The administration asked for $5.2 billion. The House bill contains $2.5 billion for SDI. 
-Adopted by a 99-0 vote an amendment by Sen. Timothy Wirth, D-Colo., that prohibits the Pentagon from awarding contracts to foreign companies which comply with the Arab League boycott of Israel and of companies that do business with Israel. 
The Senate defense appropri­ations bill largely parallels sep­arate authorization legislation passed by the Senate in August. The authorization bill sets spending ceilings; actual money is provided in the appropria­tions bill. 
The House already has passed defense appropriations and authorization bills. The two chambers will negotiate to reconcile the differences in the bills this fall. 
The closeness of the Senate votes on the B-2 and SDI reflect a growing sentiment in Congress that U.S. defense pri­orities need reordering in light of the collapse of Soviet com­munism. 
"There no longer is the threat of a war with the Soviet Union," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who voted to cancel both the B­2 and the Seawolf sub. 
Sen. James Exon, D-Neb., sponsor of the MX amendment, said there was no strategic ra­tionale for testing the feasibility of making the MX transportable by rail, and that supporters of the tests are bogged down in Cold War-era thinking. 
DO YOU WANT GREAT MUSIC? NOTRE DAME VIDEO
Do you care about animal rights?
Class 

DO YOU ENJOY LIVE BANDS? 'NEW MOVIES' HAPPY 21st BRYANIllBRUCE IS LOOSE Learn more at Animal Rights
Go BILLS 19-0 THEN COME SEE -Awkenings
Seminar in South Bend Oct. 191 
·Dances With Wolves
continued from page 19 'da Bears SUCK Ditka love, PEGGY
Sponsored by PETA. Call232-7971 
• Edward ScissorhandsBLACK WARDROBEfor Info. on registration. 
-New Jack City 
·Home AloneSaturday 1Opm -2am 'SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES'at "THE CLUB" Available NowI
($3 cover charge) CLUB 23: the place to belTo the guy who keeps putting the 
LaFortune Student Center Jim Morrison "quote" in the paper­
4:00 -11 :00 p.m.
BLACK WARDROBEThe correct lines are "I am the lizard 
Seven days a week king/1 can do anything·. Please 
The Chicago band is here I listen to the song "Not to touch the Jenny Utick-
One performance only ($3 cover charge)Earth" or read the poem"Celebration of the lizard" both on the album 
Saturday 9128/91 10pm -2am
"Waiting lor the Sun". You will see Have a good weekend reading 
at CLUB 23
there is no •and" in the lines. I Hamlet! II BLACK WARDROBE
guess you are just another jump­the-Oliver-Stone-bandwagon Doors OVER40%0FF
fan and don't care about who Jim Do NOT get too carried away Ill really was. 
Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP I 
-Over Thanksgiving to see the ND 
football game in Honolulu. Call 
x3457 for info. 
BLACK WARDROBE BLACK WARDROBE BLACK WARDROBE LIVE PROFESSIONAL BAND 
lisa A. likes to collect cards with
FROM 

naked men on them.
CHICAGO! Anyone going to Valparaiso to take Come see them lor a one time 
Ask lynn Friedewald about her
performance Saturday 9/28 at the GRE"s on October 12?
PIN#. X1260
CLUB 23. $3 cover charge. J.J., BLACK WARDROBE II so...wantto share a ride? Thanks for being a friend ----------Hanniballechter lives! We11 have to do linch some time. Happy Birthday(on Sunday) to 
Call Theresa at x2935 
Amanda Clinton and leah-peah-the .. MOVIES on a NY BUS? •• 
big piece of diarrhea-Johnson. 1st time! Bus wNCR to Ll-lv 10/19 rtn 10/25-sign up & $ Oct 3 Lafortune 8-10pm. ?s Janice x2639, 
Jinhy Yoon has big fingers! Jonix3793 
-====I Gladieux 
---~1 TRAVEL _, 
Notre Dame's 4eading ground gainer of 1968 ha~ gone 
Go against the grain. 

to the air with International Specialist lngeborg Hildegard 
Cut down on salt. 

FACULTY STAFF STUDENTS 
Adding salt to your food Lowest Available Fares Guaranteed 
could subtract years from Free Delivery and No Service Charge 
your life. Because in some people salt contributes toCall and Compare high blood pressure, a con­

8:00AM-5:00PM MON-FRI 
dition that increases your 

10:00AM -1:00PM SAT 
risk of heart disease.
234-6636 

1518 Miami St. SOUTH BEND 46613 1-800-837-4523 
Bye Bye Christine, Hello LYNN MORDAN! 
Rarin' & ready 

.v:•M PIC!~;;; P':iENTS 
to bare

ANEW FILM BY JANE CAMPION 
,[:ltv•EVE ":•,10•1 ·•.A~E'• ))L;:-,,. '0!1" c • >.' :·-ir SARP'·.ON :JAR~','· ·:oC,-'i, .'".: it all! ,)effl;i •. j~ J,\.~~· L!:E Jlll: JM4E ~.\MPIQ~; :.r-!\:t) :· .• n-;'1;r. ')..\_~. 3(' ;:AS ':lilt:• '~~O~II(A ~~ ~: _:q ._..~ .· ,;· ~,,.:.-', ;;:•.· ~::­1" Me'. ~ ·:;:~ ..l~RI5 CliSIL.-~'1 ~MANOA .JJEJ'.j· .. J'H.f.~ 1-t-.. :.~' · •.:.CKI~JNQt, :rvduta' J. ,..~.','.:.'~AMI) ; ·~·;r ..:.·.E ~,:.•,•J · 
........... _.. ,............... _ ........ ... "'· .................. ( ....... . 
-<~··· 

HAPPY 21st!! 
t 

Notre Dam..: C\lmmunic:.Hion & Thcatr,· ~American Heart Cinema at the Snite ~Association 
Friday and Saturday 7:30,9:45 Love, Cath, Barb, Elizabeth, Susan & Kathy 
My dearest STINKHEAD, Only 
93 

Daysllllllll love, Smelly 


Bell telephone companies in 

by the day. 
those states. The five-state re-~;:~~~~~================~~~P~O!:W~E~RH~OU~S~E~G~Y~M~·~13~0~W~E==S~T!E~D~IS~O~N~R~O~A~D~·~M~IS~H~A~W~A~KA~,~IN~46~5~451 gion serves about 10 million I residential customers. 
Thanks for your support! Don't 
During the linkup, the two companies previewed commer­
count us out· we're getting faster 
Guatemalan Imports •Vests •Shirts •Hooded Bajas •Fanny Packs •Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats, belts, purses, barrettes & headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing &much, much more! Sept 23-28 10 am· Spm 
LaFortune Sorin Room 

271-1177 
Papa John's Prediction: Notre Dame 63 Purdue 
10 

New credit card to be offered next month 
CLEVELAND (AP) -A credit cials for the card with the help awakes to find a wallet on their card that can be used to make of Sparky, the canine star of the ,bedside table exploding from purchases and telephone calls advertising campaign. The the pressure of so many credit will he available to consumers shorthaired terrier is featured cards inside. By the end of the in five states, including Indiana, in television commercials that spot, credit cards are shooting 
beginning next month. began airing Thursday in 16 of out of the windows and the The Ameritech Complete Mas­the Midwest's largest chimney. 
terCard offered by Ameritech metropolitan areas. Ameritech and· Household and Household Credit Services In the ads, a sleeping couple Credit Services are participat­can he used to make retail pur­chases and pay for local or long distance telephone calls, was introduced Thursday in a three-city video news conference. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
"This card will simplify con­sumers' lives and eliminate the need for multiple credit and LYNN 
calling cards," said Jack 
Rooney, Ameritech vice presi­dent and treasurer. MQRDAN Rooney spoke from Chicago during the video linkup, which 
also included Cleveland and from the 
Colu~hus. 
He fiaid the Ameritech Com-gang baCk plete tJasterCard will he offered to consumers in Ohio, Indiana, home in Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin heginping Oct. 1. 'BAMA 
Ameritech is the Chicago-based parent company of the 
,--------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

pageS 

Poolo'Jello 

Students look on as P.W. residents celebrate Queen Week. Following the tug-of-war event this P.W. resident took a dip in a pool of Jello. 
-~­

Friday, September 27, 1991 
Reach out and touch clergy through new 'Dial-a-Pope' 
VATICAN CITY (AP)-With some reluctance, the Vatican has made a concession to the phone-fettered, fax-happy 1990s. Now there's a telephone service that lets your fingers do the walking all the way to St. Peter's. 
The program, nicknamed "Dial-a-Pope," permits callers around the world to dial a 900 number, or similar special-cost line, and hear a recording from one of John Paul II's recent speeches or sermons. 
The Vatican receives at least 50 percent of the charge for each call to the service, offi­cially called "Christian Messag­ing From the Vatican," orga­nizers say. 
Promoters claim the service 
could help build a fund-raising 
network, and bring the pope's 
message home -literally -to 
the 875 million Roman 
Catholics worldwide. 

"We have invented the 
world's first electronic collec­
tion plate," boasts Michael 
Fahringer of the London-based 
Global Telecom Ltd., which runs the service. 
The Rev. Arturo Martin, a top Vatican fundraiser, said the Holy See endorsed the service because of popular demand from the phoning faithful. 
In addition, it wanted to curb a rash of unauthorized dial-a­pope lines, some featuring popes not known to the Vatican, he said. 
"At least we know what it (the new service) is saying," he said. 
The papal messages, which change each ·day, can be re­ceived worldwide, in English, Spanish, French and Italian. Fahringer noted the pontiff was available "at any time of day or night, in the comfort and privacy of your own home." 
Fahringer, who previously sold Xerox machines and worked as a business consul­tant, sees great potential in the service. 
He said that if only one-tenth . 
of 1 percent of U.S. Catholics 
called each month, the service 
would yield a bonanza -over 
55,000 calls. A similar percent­
age of the world's Catholics 

• :l3000 lbs OF~ ~[[ffi' 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /REDUCE

• 
ICARJA_ N EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS • 35 CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQ 


UJP

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL)

• 
SPORTSWEAR (ADDITIONAL) 


©~ ~®W c;)(<~c?~f'O'~
L!:J"?-J~ 

M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM SAT 8:00AM-6:00PM SUN 12:00 p•· ~-OQ.PM 

LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Severing ties would be a big mistake 

Viewpoint 
Friday, September 27, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busln•ss Manag•r Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
Newa Editor ••••..........••••.••••Monica Yant Advertising Manag•r ...... Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor•••.••••...••..••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sport• Editor •.•••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ............Jay Colucci Accent Editor.•.•••••••..•••.•••.John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'• Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through leners, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Relations group working for change 
While many students at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame perpetuate negative stereotypes about students at the other school, some arc trymg to see that per­ceptions arc changed.
Because students such as those in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Relations Committee focus on the similarities between the two schools, progress is a real possibility.
This group of concerned students from both schools is workmg to sec that interaction between the institu­tions is mutually beneficial. 
An example of their commitment to the cause was the frcshwomcn's picnic during orientation this fall, with over 300 students from both schools in atten­dance. 
At Notre Dame, the Relations Committee receives funding from Student Government for programs that bring students from the two campuses together. 
At Saint Mary's, the Board of Governance also allo­cates funds for the Relations Committee to sponsor events. 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Maureen Lowry would like to sec the relations group get club status at the College. Then members would be able to control their own funds and plan more activities. 
This idea is a valid one. If the group is expected to have an impact on the state of relations between the two schools, it needs adequate funding and support for events. 
If leaders at Saint Mary's apply for club status, it will ensure that this concern is addressed by students in the years to come. It will also send a message that this issue is a serious one that deserves campus-wide consideration. 
Students who arc interested in working toward bet­ter relations should attend an organizatiOnal meeting on Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. in the Chamcfeon Room of Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. 
The future of relations between the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College is in our hands. There's a lot to be gained from interaction between the students of both schools. 
We believe our special relationship is worth strengthening. Students from both schools must work now to support efforts for positive interaction before it's too late. 
page 9 
Dame and Saint Mary's have gifts to offer each other in a manner in which both schools stand to gain. I probably bene­fitted more from Saint Mary's than the average Saint Mary's woman did from Notre Dame, but who cares which school has more to offer? True friends don't keep score. 
I'm glad that not everyone shares Regan's negative atti­tude. His true colors seem to be the misogynist raving of someone who got turned down for an SYR by "one of those girls from across the street." I'm glad many men from Notre Dame can get along with Saint Mary's women, because in the converse situation I wouldn't be here; I'm the product of such a relationship. 
Thomas G. Rust Class of '91 A Greensburg, IN 
j 
i 
j 
j 
J 
j j 
l 
1 
4 
l 
of the Judicial Board volunteers j that assisted with crowd con­trol. 
Notre Dame Ticket Office 
J.A.C.C. Sept. 18, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
I graduated from Notre Dame in May. I was on campus this past weekend for the Notre Dame game against Michigan State and was appalled to read "An Analogy for ND/SMC Rela­tions" (Observer, Sept. 20). I would like Brendan Regan to realize the error of his observa­tions. 
Severing all ties between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would not only eliminate the mutually beneficial relationship we enjoy, but would also inten­sify any feelings of animosity that presently exist. 
Brendan Regan said, "The amount that Saint Mary's has to offer Notre Dame is negligible compared to the privileges afforded Saint Mary's students by the University." Really? I was a member of the Gymnas­tics Club, which practiced on the only gymnastics facility be-

Dear Notre Dame Students: 
The lines for tickets were long, the weatlter hot and/or raining, but you all were ladies and gentlemen while waiting. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Atter silence, that which comes nearest to expressing the inexpressible is music.' 
Aldous Huxley 
Get offyour high horse and submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
tween the two schools... at Saint Mary's. I lived in Keenan Hall and participated in the Keenan Revue, which was held in the largest auditorium be­tween the two schools ... at Saint Mary's. 
My senior year, I needed a theology course in order to graduate. Classes I preferred in the theology department at Notre Dame were completely filled, so I enrolled in a wonderful, challenging class, directed by a brilliant professor, in a class size of 16 students... at Saint Mary's. 
I don't understand Regan's analogy -does this mean I'm a football player as well as a cheerleader? 
Even if I had gained none of these privileges from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame's benevo­lent relationship with Saint Mary's has engendered close friendships I maintain with sev­eral Saint Mary's women. Notre 
Perfect ex~mples of Notre Dame students. 
We would like to extend a "Thank You" for the coopera­tion of the students who pur­chased a ticket and for the help 
~ ""·"·'"'"''""''"'"'",..:"····,.,.,,. •' '• ••. 
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, September 27, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Volunteer work can be a truly valuable experience 
Dear Editor: wide competition. As Drama lived on campus. I got to know thank goodness,· and I hope group of graduates to be ready 
Anyone thinking of doing vol­coach I found the school bad no the other teachers at the school when I'm done with medical to take risks. In going to Kenya, unteer work for a while after plays in the library and so had well, along with the Irish priest school I'll be able to do some I took a risk. What I gave up graduating from ND? I'm sure to write my own for our school who ran the mission next door more travelling. was a year of time-med school there are lots of you who will to be able to perform in the re­and who had a refrigerator and Most important, my time as a would've been no harder or choose to do this. But for those gional drama festival. What a a TV with VCR. Then there teacher in Kenya made me see easier had I gone straight from on the fence, here's a 
thrill to see the students do a were the other American volun-that by hard work and devotion ND. What I gained is hard to • testimonial from one who did it. describe in words, although I've I delayed medical school for a just tried. year in order to teach in Kenya. To be fair, I have to say there I went with a program called was a down side to the year in Work Teach. I will soon see the Africa. This was in coming class I would have joined in back to the U.S.A. While on the medical school if I hadn't gone one hand I could appreciate my to Kenya graduate. So I have family and friends all the more been asking myself lately-was for the time away, I had a hard the year's delay worthwhile? time switching gears from life Did it help me or hurt me? Did as a focused teacher in rural it change me? Kenya to life as a self-centered 
My immediate answer is that student in the U.S. The experi­my time in Kenya was the most ence had changed me and I fulfilled and happy time I have have had to come to new terms 
had so far, for a number of with life in America. But is that 
reasons. First, the year was a good job in front of all the other 
time of tremendous personal 
schools and to see their self­
growth. I was thrust into a po­confidence grow in front of mysition of responsibility for 
eyes. in these ways and in 
teaching high school freshman many others which I couldn't and sophomores their biology have anticipated when I left my
and physics. Having no teach­home in Iowa, I was forced to ing experience, I had to make do new things and fmd new tal­up for my lack of skill by hard 
ents 

work. All the books I brought 
Along with this personal 
over with me gathered dust on growth came the establishment 
my table. I was the assistant of some great friendships. As track coach and had the thrill 
the school was a boardingof seeing kids I had worked school, most of the teachers 
with perform well in district 
Newspaper has obligation to recognize different ~_iews 
Dear Editor: Newspapers (and all forms of 
I am afraid I was disappointed media) have, in fact, an obli­
by the two letters to the editor gation to recognize opposing 
on Monday, September 23 in points of view so individual can 
response to Sept. 17's Quote of be informed, debate issues, and 
the Day by Anita Bryant that draw their own conclusions. 
read, "If homosexuality were Freedom of speech is one of 
the normal way, God would our most precious rights. Use it 
have made Adam and Bruce." I to express your different 
felt the same shock and disgust opinions, but don't encourage 
the authors expressed when I censorship. 
read that misguided quote, but Cara Schaffer 
I direct it at Anita Bryant rather Lewis Hall 
than at The Observer. Sept. 24, 1991 
Getting inSecurity Beat is not worth student's costs 
Dear Editor: typed in, my checkbook, ID, 
It's taken a few years, but I detex, calculator, etc,etc ... I am can finally say that I made it sure whoever stole it will have into Security Beat. I would many pleasurable hours sitting have rather gotten in it by run­by the frre, with a cup of tea, ning into a tree or something, paging through Transport but still, I'm there. Phenomena. 
Oh, but I did get something 
I'm a Notre Dame student back. I received a call from a who stupidly left my backpack South Bend woman who lives in the little cubbyholes of North near the airport. She had Dining Hall. While I was grab­found my checkbook in her bing some dinner, the thief front yard. So, all is not lost. nabbed by bag, as well as sev­Crime isn't cool, especially eral others. Once I realized I when it happens to you or your wasn't the only one who was mom. So, while sitting at robbed, I knew not even St. lunch,. eating away, maybe you Anthony could return it to me. should go check on the where-· 
It doesn't sound like a big abouts of your bag. Or, you can deal. Just go out and buy and get in Security Beat, too. new one. No big loss. I just had a couple hundred dollars Kerry Hagan worth of books, notes, a Pasquerilla East theology paper that hadn't been Sept. 23,1991 

teers, many of whom I still keep one person can make a real dif­bad? I say go for it! in touch with and visit. We ference in the lives of individu­If you're interested in should visit each other on als in need. My students were exploring options for post­
weekends sometimes and them eager to learn and, when I graduation volunteer service, always on American holidays worked with them and showed don't miss the Volunteer 
like Thanksgiving and the an interest, they seemed to Opportunities Fair on October fourth of July. blossom with abundant talents. 2, from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m., at 
There were also a lot of excit­I found the work I was doing the Center for Social Concerns. ing places to go when the school incredibly rewarding and was Representatives of 39 volunteer vacation came around. I was more at peace with myself than groups will be on hand to 
able to climb Mt. Kilimanjaro in ever before. answer your questions. Tanzania and visit Zanzibar for At my graduation from Notre example. The thrill of the Dame, then incoming President Joe Merchant adventures is still with me-of ND Fr. Malloy encouraged a NO Class of '87 
September 25, 1991 
Portrayal of Duarte as a "failure" unfair 
Dear Editor: the 1940s. made all the necessary reforms 
While reading the article Lastly it is imperative to note nor that additional changes are 
"Pictures of War" in the the fact that Duarte was the not needed in El Salvador. As a 
September 23rd issue of The ftrst man to initiate peace talks Salvadorean, I am the first to 
Observer, I came across Steven with the left. This move cer­admit that many changes must 
Moriarty's unfair portrayal of tainly did not gain him favor still take place if there is to be 
ex-Salvadorean president Jose with a right-wing upper class peace in my country. Yet 
Napoleon Duarte as a "failure." that had already labeled him a Duarte's role in achieving im­
To say that Duarte was a fail­"guerilla sympathizer" because portant reforms can hardly be 
ure because he did not end the of his previous reforms. denied. 
war is to. ignore and overlook It is certainly true that Duarte 
the many important reforms made mistakes in his years as Many of the changes he 
which he successfully imple­president of El Salvador. brought about complied with 
mented in El Salvador. For ex­Among his biggest was the fact leftist justifications for the war 
ample, Duarte instituted a that he surrounded himself and caused the left to revise its 
series of land reforms which with corrupt people who filled political platform. How can 
were carried out much to the their pockets with North Amer­Duarte be possibly labeled as a 
disgust of the upper class, land­ican money destined for the failure when the Salvadorean 
owning families. war. National Assembly, including 
In addition, it was under his Yet Duarte's job was not an the leftist party (La Convergen­
supervision and promotion that easy nor an enviable one. On cia Nacional), has currently 
the banks of El Salvador were the one hand he had to appease drawn a petition to name him 
finally taken from a few the right wing which felt its eli­the Salvadorean "Father of 
wealthy private citizens and na­tist standing threatened by his Democracy"? 
tionalized. Also, Duarte was reforms. On the other, he had 
the first civilian president to to deal with an uncontrollable Paulita A. Llopls Pike 
hand over power to another military who looked on his Pasquerilla East 
civilian president (Alfredo Cris­peace initiatives with a suspi­Sept. 25, 1991 
tiani) under the auspices of fair cious and threatening eye. 
and democratic elections since I do not claim that Duarte 
Letter was inaccurate and hypocritical 
Dear Editor: disturbing to me, however, was Uphold some minorities, Once again, The Observer has his convenient use of statistics ridiculing others, Mr. Peralez? printed another inflammatory from his home of San Antonio, Of course, I know nothing Viewpoint letter from Paul Texas. Nobody here will be about the number of gay bars, Peralez. I believe you should familiar, eh? Too far away from or bookstores, or hangouts in strongly consider not printing South Bend? WRONG! As a parks, or gay magazines at any of his future writing heterosexual from San Antonio, Trinity University, because as a attempts. I won't stand by and let Mr. heterosexual, I never went 
Now that Mr. Peralez has Peralez's statistics slander my looking. So tell me, Mr. Peralez, stopped stirring up controversy home. who knows of the "facts," by telling readers how hard it is I have never heard that San where do you "lurk in a most to be black here at Notre Dame Antonio has a large gay despicable search for sexual (you ·ARE still Hispanic, not population, and neither has Mr. gratification"? black, Mr. Peralez! In your Peralez, because in his own I wish to close by quoting freshman year you spoke out words, "they are not vocal and your letter from Sept. 26, 1989 against racism, and last year public." in The Observer: "Until we you became racism's "poster Be a little more consistent, transcend the mindless and child" with your anti-SUFR Paul! You say we should gross generalizations, we will Student Senate campaign.), publicize sex less, but use a never end racism and fulfill the Paul has now moved on to third of a page to do it. Less promise of America." another minority group: publicity, not a lot of empty Discrimination of sexual homosexuals. words designed to stir preference is the same, Paul. 
This time around, however, controversy. Practice what you preach. Or he uses sarcasm and a sick You offer Mr. Yore friendly are you all words, no action?. imagination to attack. That's advice, after painting a very tolerant of you for a gruesome portrait of Scot Graydon minority, Paul! homosexuality in the library. Grace Hall 
The fact which was most Inconsistent again, Paul. Sept. 23, 1991 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 27, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
I recognize and applaud the fact that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are separate entities. They are both excellent schools In their own respects. Because of several grievous assumptions in the Sept. 18 article "Schools are Separate Institutions" by Karl J. Eichelberger, I feel compelled to dispute the erroneous data. 
Mr. Eichelberger's conceits are extraordinary. I find it in­teresting that he assumes it is "degrading or belittling" to in­form the Saint Mary's body that we are not students at Notre Dame. This assumption, which suggests Saint Mary's women desire nothing more out of life than to be misidentified for a Notre Dame student, is based on one woman who introduced herself as a "Domer." 
You allude to tho fact that Saint Mary's women are not proud of their learning institu­tion. I will grant myself the luxury of an assumption also. Mr. Eichelberger must not have many friends from Saint Mary's. Most of tho students I know at Saint Mary's are happy with their college choice and recognize the attributes and opportunities Saint Mary's offers them. 
People choose Saint Mary's for varied reasons. Students may have chosen Saint Mary's because they wanted a small, liberal arts college, while others may have found tho fact that 
Dear Editor: 
We see the words "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's" all the time. In Karl J. Eichelberger's Viewpoint letter ( The Observer, Sept. 18). he so astutely In­formed us that the relationship between our campuses is "exactly where It should be," and that It greatly disturbs him that a woman from Saint Mary's should have an opinion at all about the extra $25 she pays to see games played by 
students this hallowed institu­tion called Notre Dame. 
Hey, that's why Saint Mary's students go to Saint Mary's at all, Is It not? It seems surprising the at Mr. Eichelberger said nothing about how Is also reality disturbs him that this woman has an editorial position at The Observer. After all, according to his learned scope, we should remain separate campuses. 
However, what Mr. Eichel­berger neglected to address remains inherent in letters like his, the affronting remarks, conjectured looks and overall bad vibes that Insure the atro­phy· of any improved relations between the two campuses. 
they do not have to compete with males for the attention of a professor an attraction. Some students may appreciate the merits of the nursing, business, or education departments. 
While I am writing, I will also address some minor issues. Does the fact that Holy Cross College is listed on the tel e­phone directory bother you? 
Did he ar anyone else wonder why the women at the party ne­glected to say that she is indeed a Saint Mary's student? Per­haps she was a step ahead of Mr. Eichelberger, and antici­pated the wave of insults or animosity that would confront her if she were to tell the truth. This may be a bit convoluted, but it is a Jot easier to picture in light of ridiculous suggestions like his. 
Perhaps opinion about re­lations between ND/SMC stu­dents that reflect this animosity provide an asylum for students who do not wish to improve, or even care, about the state of affairs between the schools. 
It is agitating for studenl<J on both campuses who do care about this disavowal to know that people wish to perpetuate the bad relations between our schools. It is annoying for the women of Saint Mary's to be generalized Into a single groupie "riding on the coat tails" of Notre Dame. 
Elizabeth A. Graner Augusta Hall 
Sept. 18, 1991 Oh, thy must be riding on the coat tails of Notre Dame. 

Furthermore, I am not "bent out of shape" about the $25.00 additional fee for football tick­ets. I am upset that all students must carry a booklet rather than individual tickets. 
As a matter of fact, the word Notre Dame does appear on my tuition bill and my transcripts. 
it is used as the mailing ad­dress where I sent my tuition money and where I attend school. 
Codependency. I am a mem­ber of the women's lacrosse team in which the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame members are dependent on each other to keep the team unified and suc­cessful. The efforts of all play­ers are recognized as efforts that contribute to the entire team. I will surmise other ex­amples of codependency actu­ally do exist between the two campuses. By the way, tho words Notre Dame and Saint Mary's appear together on our jackets. 
Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame have enjoyed an extensive history of peaceful co-existence and shared traditions. Mr. Eichel­berger's intent of a complete disconnection of the two insti­tutions is based on arbitrarily trivialities. As a student of a school of higher education, heed the words of Charles Frankel who said, "It is through education that a civilized society talks to itself about the things that matter most." 
I am extremely proud of the liberal arts education which Saint Mary's has furnished me. It teaches me to concern myself with affairs of importance and to form constructive ideas rather than destructive ones. For the record Mr. Eichelberger, I am a Saint Mary's woman who will "push and push for more." I will push for continued distinctness and character at Saint Mary's. In the future, I will be proud to be recognized as a successful product of Saint Mary's College. 
Camille McAuliffe Augusta Hall 
Sept. 18, 1991 

ND and Saint Mary's share family ties 
Dear Editor: 
This is a response to Karl Eichelberger's letter (The Ob­server, Sept. 18). 
First, I would just like to say that I couldn't give a rat's ass about the stupid football tickets. The proverbially horse has been beaten to death! But, I am extremely offended at your lack of sensitivity to the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame family. And yes, it is a family, literally. It is my experience that many of the students who currently attend both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are the sons and daughters of ND/SMC Alumni. 
I also know many Saint Mary's students who have sisters, brothers, cousins, and other relatives who are currently or have been students at Notre Dame. 
In all probability, this is due to the importance that both administrations place on the relatives of alumni when admit­ting freshman. But since you seem to believe that both schools would be much better off if they were completely in­dependent of one another, why don't you tell the administration not to admit relatives? That way, you can eliminate one of the basic bonds between the two schools. At the same time, you would destroy the heart of your beloved school. 
The reality is that we are all family and we should start act­ing like it. Saint Mary's repre­sents you mothers, sisters, girl­friends, and possible future daughters. When you alienate Saint Mary's, you alienate all of these people. 
You also ask in your letter why Notre Dame doesn't just Invite students from other pri­vate schools to attend football games. Saint Mary's is imme­diately adjacent to Notre Dame. We have been here since 1855 and were founded by the same religious order as Notre Dame. Not many other schools boast such common t)Ireads. 
Lastly, concerning this girl you met at a party. She told you she was a Domer and you heard she was a SMC student. That sounds like heatsay to me. Maybe your source was incor­rect. Or maybe, just maybe, she was having a little fun at your expense. But let's s~ she did lie and she was a SMC student. That event, In n& way, gives you the right to make a gross over-generalization that takes a cheap shot at the; pride of all Saint Mary's students. I am surprised that a "Junior from Notre Dame" could make such a tremendous error in logic. You must not be getting your money's worth. 
Amy Persln LeMans Hall 
Sept. 18, 1991 

Two schools enjoy a unique relationship 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to Karl J. Eichelberger's letter published in The Observer on Sept. 18, 1991. As a point of clarification not all students at Saint Mary's College are "disgruntled" by the fact that we are asked to pay an additional $25.00 for Notre Dame football tickets. 
However, Mr. Eichelberger seems to think that Saint Mary's students should feel privileged and "happy to be included in the games." We found his comments rude and offensive, especially since he stated his point was otherwise. 
Saint Mary's students and Notre Dame students should feel equally privileged to have each other. Notre Dame is not the only school that offers cer­tain privileges. Saint Mary's also offers many generous op­portunities to Notre Dame stu­dents. Before anyone would be so quick to judge, maybe they should look Into what Saint Mary's has to offer them. 
A unique relationship was formed between these two insti­tutions long before any of us were students. As one recalls, Notre Dame has not always been a coed university and dur­ing that time Saint Mary's played an important part in the survival of Notre Dame. Saint Mary's has and always will be known as Notre Dame's sister school, whether one wishes to acknowledge it or not. 
Many generations of families carry out a tradition that the young men attended Notre Dame and the young women at­tend Saint Mary's. These families view these two institu­tions as a community unlike other colleges or universities around. How can anyone say this is wrong? No one should make such slanderous judge­ments so quickly with out liking at both sides of the story. 
It is people like Karl J. Eichelberger who push the relationship of these two schools further behind, at a time when this rare relation­ship should be taking a step forward. It seems that. the 
schools cannot rid themselves of people still wanting to hinder these situations rather then help them. 
Kerrl McKinley Amlta Mukerjee Regina Hall 
Sept. 19, 1991 



SEPTEMBER 27·29 


Fi 
htin 
Alter hours... hot spots to hit 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
Accent Writer 

P 
Ianning a social life in unfamiliar surroundings can be confusing. However, the social opportunities at Purdue University should not leave Notre Dame and Saint Mary's roadtrippers in social distress. 
As for parties, many will occur on this Purdue football weekend. The easiest, most accessible parties will be fraternity parties. However, over the past few years Purdue has cracked down on the social life of the Greek system. 
Most of the national fraternity chapters have banned kegs. Many fraternities have also decreased the number of open parties. Although most fraternities do not serve open quantities of alcohol, they will have parties with a B.Y.O.B. policy. 
Because of the stricter policies in the Greek system, most students make the local bars· a priority for fulfilling nightlife. 
"Harry's," also known as "The Chocolate Shop," located on the corner of State Street and Pierce, is the most popular bar on campus. The long wooded bar has been occupied by many since the time of prohibition, when the front section was used as a chocolate shop, a cover-up for the speakeasy in the back. The more conservative, fraternity crowd can be found here. 
Across from "Harry's," "T. A. Tom's" 125 Pierce Street, provides a fun atmosphere and a dance floor that attracts all types. 
Another popular bar, "The Yacht Club," attracts crowds of students each night. With the same management as "Harry's," it also promises a fraternity scene. This campus bar is located on State Street hill in Chauncy Hill Shopping Center. "Harry's," "The Yacht Club," and "T.A. Tom's" are all in walking distance of each other. 
As for the dancing football fans, Macaw's Bar and Grill, 202 South River Road, provides dancing nightly until 2 a.m. Another dance club to check out would be Nick's, Levee Plaza, Brown Street. This club is often occupied by locals as well as students. 
For the real football fan who likes to "get down," "Pete's," 200 Northwestern Avenue, pro­vides a Big Ten sports-bar atmosphere with dancing nightly until 3 a.m. 
The Lafayette bar scene enforces strict rules. Two picture IDs are necessary for admittance to most campus bars. The Indiana State Excise Police will be in West Lafayette this weekend enforcing strict alcohol policies, especially at liquor stores. 
However, there is still hope for the "Bridget's" crowd. If the fraternity scene or house parties do not provide enough thrills, "Vena's," 1400 W. State Street in Purdue West Shopping Plaza, attracts the fraternity type crowd as well. This bar is slightly less crowded because it is not in walking distance of the other campus bars. However, darts and a more mellow atmosphere attract many. 
Finally, for the late-night munchies, "TripleXXX Rootbeer," located on State Street hill serves its famous chopped steak sandwiches and breakfast is served anytime of the day. 
"If you are choosing whether or not to stay Friday or Saturday night, Saturday nights are definitely more 'happening'," Jennifer Pechin, a sophomore at Purdue University said. 
Have a safe and fun weekend ND and SMC road trippers! 

..• 1 

~---~·-······························· 
I R I S II 

A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, September 27, 1991 
GAME INFO 
THE GAME: Notre Dame {2-1} at 
Purdue {1-1}. 
TIME: 1:00 p.m. South Bend/West 
Lafayette time. 
TV & RADIO: The game will have no live television coverage. Host Creative Communications {Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung} will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel stations, including WNDU-TV in South Bend and SportsChannel Chicago. The Mutual Radio Network {Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna} will broadcast the game to 280 stations across the country, including WNDU-AM WNDU-FM and WSBT-AM in South Bend and WMAG­AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Purdue Universitiy's Ross­Ade Stadium, which holds 6 7, 861, is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: NCSW 8th; AP 8th. Purdue: NCSW unranked; AP unranked. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 39­21, and has won five straight over Purdue, in addition to 12 of the last 16 and 16 of the last 21. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame 3 7, 
Purdue 11. 
LAST WEEK: Purdue was idle while Notre Dame defeated Michigan State 49-1D. The Boilermakers, after opening their season with a 49-3 home win over Eastern Michigan, fell 42-18 at California. In their two games, Purdue has averaged 33. 5 points and 341 total vards per qame. 
Sept. 7 
Sept.14 
Sept. 21 Sept. 28 Oct. 5 Oct. 12 Oct. 19 Oct. 26 N011:2 Nov•..s.....,,.,.,
Nov: te····· 
Nov•. 3D 
Sept. 7 
Sept. 14 at catitwhia · 
Sept. 28 NOTRE DAME 
Oct. 5 et Nor-WweSt.ern 
Oct. 12 at Minnesota .•· 
Oct. 19 WISCONSIN•••·· 
Oct. 2B IOWA 
Nov,,2 at Michigan 
Nov,... 9 ILUNOIS .· 
Nov;16 
No\'.. 23 .·.·MICHIGAN ""Y'·~·~················· 
Beware of Bereich 
Overcomes injury, earns starting role 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
An untimely fall last spring caused Notre Dame inside 
linebacker Pete Bereich to put his brief career on hold. 
He had only played in five games as a freshman, but and 
winning combination. Bereich (6-1, 225) anticipated a 
productive spring camp in preparation for a starting 
position this season, but instead was the victim of a fall 
that would change the route to his starting role. 
At the beginning of spring practice, All-America 
offensive guard Mirko Jurkovic fell on the back of 
Bereich's leg. At 289 pounds, Jurkovic falling on anything 
would almost assuredly cause it harm. Bereich tore the 
arch out of his foot in his attempt to elude the third 
heaviest player on the team. 
"I missed a lot of spring practice and never returned to 
100 percent after that," said Bereich, who tallied six 
tackles last Saturday against Michigan State. 
Bereich returned to Notre Dame for summer school, 
working with Irish conditioning coordinators Bill Martinov 
and Matt McGettigan to achieve a full recovery. 
"Those guys really helped me out a lot," said Bereich, 
who recorded 5:08 of playing time last season. "I had a 
good work out program and worked on increasing my 
speed. By the end of the summer I was down to about 4. 7 
in the 40." 

After a strong campaign in pre-season practice during 

The Observer/David lee 

August, Bereich moved into the picture at inside 
Linebacker Pete Bereich (47) leads a defensive charge against linebacker. With the graduation of Andre Jones, Michael Indiana. Following the play is senior linebacker Devon Stonebreaker, and Scott Kowalkowski, the Irish corps of McDonald (45).linebackers was destined to answer many questions. 
Stonebreaker's backup last year, started the openerBereich has taken advantage of the opportunity to 
against Indiana and led the Irish In tackles last week with solidify such a young group, although he didn't expect the seven. Bereich, also heavily recruited by Illinois, Michigan chance to come so soon. 
State, USC, and Stanford added six tackles as the duo led"When I first got here I really didn't think I'd be playing 
the Irish defense. In his first career start against
a lot until a couple of years down the road," said Bereich. 
Michigan, Bereich posted five tackles.
"But graduation took care of a lot of people, so we had Uespite the lack or playing time by this year's inside some spots open." 
linebackers-Demetrius DuBose is the only returner with aBereich hasn't monopolized the position, sharing time 
see BERCICH I page 4

with Jim Flanigan in the State game. Flanigan, 
~ 
. 
The Observer/David lee 

Pete Bereich (47) dives onto the pile during a goal-line stand in Notre Dame's 49-27 win over the Indiana Hoosiers. The sophomore has amassed 14 solo tackles and four assists. 
Irish Football '91 
Friday, September 27, 1991 
Carter an emerging force at corner 
Speedy sophomore bulks up, lights up opposition 
By RICH KURZ 
"If you haven't been back Associate Sports Editor there long, all you know is what to listen for." 
What do you do for an encore With so much early success, it in your sophomore season after might be understandable if playing in 11 of 12 games your Carter were looking ahead to freshman year, starting six of the days after college. those games at free safety? Trust him, he's not. 
Tom Carter might just have an "I try not to look ahead," says answer. Carter. "If you look ahead, you 
The 5-11, 192-pounder, who get kind of sure of yourself, and hails from the same high school that's when you start messing as former Irish safety Pat up. I just try to take it one game
Tom carter

Terrell, shifted to field corner­at a time." back to replace another stand­"This year and last year are Although Carter is still young, out Notre Dame defensive like two totally different things, Cooper thinks that Carter has back-Todd Lyght, a move as far as confidence is con­the potential to make some 
Carter welcomed. cerned." waves. 
"I played corner in high Some words with Terrell, now "He's got to continue to get school," says Carter. "You get playing for the L.A. Rams, had better," remarked Cooper. "He's into the action every play. an influence on the young re­got to keep pressing on. He's not Sometimes at safety you go a cruit. going to be able to let a bad whole series without touching "Me and Pat talked a lot about play get him down, keep anyone." coming (to Notre Dame)," practicing hard. He's got a 
The switch for Carter came Carter says. "He let me in on a chance to be a great player." shortly after Ron Cooper, pre­lot of stuff before I got in. The secondary as a whole has viously the defensive coordina­Basically, he just said 'have been much improved over last tor at UNLV, was hired to re­pati.~nce and things will work year, with six interceptions al­place Chuck Heater as the sec­out. ready, compared to nine all of ondary coach. For Cooper, the Carter's emphasis on the last year. Carter credits Cooper move was an obvious one. mental aspects of the game ex­with a great deal of that suc­
"We want our best athletes at tends to practice. cess. corner," says Cooper. "We put "He does whatever he's "Coach Coop brings an enthu­our fastest guy at the corner. coached to do," Cooper says. "If siasm to the group," stated He's one of the top two fastest you tell him to do something a 
see CARTER Ipage 4
guys I have back there." certain way, he does it. 

For the record, Carter has 
been timed at 4.38 seconds in 
the 40-yd. dash, and has tested 
out at 38.5 inches for the verti­
cal leap. And he also put on 10 
pounds of muscle from lifting 
over the summer-while lower­
ing his body-fat percentage. 
"Our strength coaches did a 
great job on," Cooper says. "He 
gained weight, but he kept the 
same speed and quickness. He 
got stronger, he developed 
more. 
And, those 10 extra pounds 
sure do come in handy some 
times. 
"You get a little weight on, you feel a little more sure of yourself, coming in there and trying to hit the 230 or 240 lb. fullback," Carter says. 
To date, the results have been positive. After three games, Carter has made nine tackles. He also has two interceptions-as many as anyone on the team had last season-giving him the lead for this season. 
"Both of the interceptions that he's had were in zone coverage, and he's read the quarterback, broke on the ball, and he's had to go up to get the ball. He's got the ability to do that." Cooper says. 
Carter got to show otT some of his athleticism on his second interception, against Michigan State, leaping high in the corner of the end zone to pick otT Bret Johnson's desperation toss. 
Disputed calls usually bring a spirited display from Carter, who, contrary to his mellow otT­the-field demeanor, isn't afraid to show his emotions on the field. 
"He likes to play, he likes to have fun," chuckles Cooper. "He wants to be successful." 
Aside from his responsibilities as a cornerback, Carter also plays a big role on the special teams. 
"We use him in every phase of the kicking game," says Cooper. 
Despite the obvious athletic talent he possesses, Carter's biggest attributes may be men­tal. 
"I just want to gain more confidence," says Carter of his football goals. "That's the key thing, I think. The more confi­dence you get in yourself and the more the coaches trust you, 
the better you can play. 
-SE 

Tony Smith Ray Griggs RCB
i.\'( 

William Pollard 
Jl 
) Jimmy Young ( John Jackson 
OLB Don Delvy
(~ ~~dsay Knapp 
' Jl 
Craig Davisson ' 
t. ,~ 

Todd Norman ' lFS RT
FB (~~on Taylor Pat Johnson 
Kris Burns

Jerome Bettis p~ Tim Ruddy Brian Thurman 
Robert Hardin 

• Ryao Mi""ko t il Jl 
Jim Schwantz Ryan Wilson '
\A\ ii' ' , ~ooMoG"'" ~21 WLB Jl 
i_ l t. ,~ QB i. l t. p~ Lance Johnson 
~ 

TB Rick Mirer 
' ss
Rodney Culver Paul Failla , TG Jeff Zgonina Rick Smith Willie Clark Kevin McDougal (\,"! · Mirko Jurkovic John Sikora 

l

Corey Walden Tony Brooks George Poorman ~~ Mark Zataveski 

Jl 

SLB
t.a. 
NG ' Jl
Dan Brekke Eric Beatty 
TT 

K Justin Hall Craig Hentrich Jordan Halter
(I, 

LT LCB
t.;&.
p 

Frank Kmet Thomas Adams FLCraig Hentrich James Cole 
l

Romond BattenLake Dawson
Jim Sexton Adrian Jarrell · TE 
Jl
, 

\ Clint Johnson (-Derek .Brown OLB 
'
1f'~ lrv Smith Trent Decatur 
i. ( t. iL Oscar McBride Peyton Minter Jl 
' 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Irish Football '91 

SE 
E. Calloway 
J. Ross I FCB Rod Smith Devon McDonald 

/.. l IOLB 
B. Nicholson Marvin Robinson 
\' Oliver Gibson 
I
Shawn Wooden ,1Germaine Holden 

J 
J1
RE 
' 

., LT 
Pi) Eric Jones 
\~ Jim Wormsley ~~ Dean Lytle

( ill. 
Kevin Janiak 

.li~ 
f 

lG 'lSLB FS
~­

fd E. Caldwell Jeff Burris 
Demetrius DuBose \~ Eric Molfino Bria~ Ratigan ~ J. Covington
J 

l'usbn Goheen Chet Hollister 
I.a. 
NT 
J 1 

Junior Bryant 'Troy Ridgely 
~ 
~ob Dressel 
Nick Mamula 

( r~ .Ji ~ 
Corey Rogers Eric Hunter ' 
ss
f 
RG ' I 
Jeff Hill G. Ogorak lGreg Davis
{d Chronopoulous MLB 
LeShane Saddler 

\~ David Bratton Pete Bereich Jim Flanigan 
'-Jeremy Nau LE J ~ 

I.a. J1 
K 
f 
RT 
t\ Bryant Young Joe O'Leary (tl!! Darick Schmidt '/ Peter Rausch \fi Bob Martin ~ Bernard Mannelly 
.Ji ~ 
BCB
I. a.

p 
Fl Tom Carter 
Eric Bruun Tedman Brown OLB Greg Lane ) Anthony Peterson Travis Davis
l

( Rodney Dennis ~--TE
1 \1 Scott Green ( K. McGill Nick Smith 
/.. l ( ill. Tony Simmons ' J1 
' 
-
Jl 
by Haghib uRocket" Ismail's 64 
yard rushing score. On first 
down from the Irish 36, Ismail 
took a pitch from Hick Mirer on 
a reverse, and found a gap 
down the left side. Hocket 
turned on the afterburners and 
exploded down the sideline, 
avoiding a Boiler and an official 
to scamper into the end zone. It 
was Ismail's longest run from 
scrimmage in his illustrious ca­
reer. 
"When I called it, I thought it 
might be a real dumb call," said 
Lou Holtz of the reverse call. 
Irish quarterback Hick Mirer 
also showed his running ability 
in the second quarter. After a 
40 yard pass play to Derek 
Brown, Mirer kept on an option 
play, and spun his way into the 
end zone from 12 yards out. 
Mlrer ran for a total of 48 yards 
for the afternoon, and threw for 
130 more. 
Boiler quarterback Eric Hunter had good success against the Notre Dame sec­ondary that day, throwing for 354 yards, completing 21 passes on 37 attempts. Unfortunately for Hunter, the Irish bent but never broke, as the Boilers were unable to get Into the end zone until there was 3:23 left in the game. The 

Boilermakers then converted for two, leaving a final score of 37-11. 
The last time the Irish lost to Purdue was In 1985, Holtz's first year. Notre Dame fell 35­17 in that contest, which was held at Ross-Ade Stadium. 
The 

Irish Football '91 
defense better beware. One glaring weakness in the Irish
Spoilers 
defense is the distinct lack of a 

Friday, September 27, 1991 
FSU, with week off, still leads college poll 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

For the third week in a row, the Florida State Seminoles remain perched atop the National Collegiate Sportswriter's Poll. The Seminoles captured 24 of 31 first-place votes. 
Michigan, which will face FSU in Ann Arbor next week, stays at number two, capturing three nods for the top spot. Miami, tied for second last week, drops to third with two number-one votes. 
Washington and Oklahoma round out the top five spots. The final number-one vote went to seventh-ranked Clemson. 
Notre Dame was one of the big gainers, jumping to the eighth spot from no. 11. Syracuse, on the basis of an upset of Florida, moved up a whopping nine spots, going from 22nd to 13th, while Colorado jumped from 21st to 17th 
California, unranked last week, entered the list at 20, while Illinois and North Carolina entered the poll at nos. 24 and 25, respectively. 
BOILERMAKERS TO WATCH 


continued from page 3 Duckett of Michigan State to only 73 yards on 19 carries, and held the Spartans as a team to only 136 yards on the ground. Inside linebacker Demetrius DuBose leads the Irish with 33 tackles, while cornerback Rod Smith (26 tackles) and outside linebacker Anthony Peterson 
(24) have also contributed greatly. The Irish have recorded 10 tackles for losses so far this season. 
If the Irish can shut down the Purdue running game, they will then have to face the task of stopping Purdue quarterback Eric Hunter through the air. Hunter, last year's Big Ten leader in total offense, has got­ten off to a slow start thus far, completing only 14 of 38 passes for 224 yards, with two touch­downs and three interceptions. 
Split end Ernest Calloway is a serious threat, having grabbed seven passes for 117 yards in Purdue's 42-18 loss to California two weeks ago. 
Hunter will not be sluggish for the entire season, so the Irish pass rush, with the team garnering only a single sack in its three contests. The sec­ondary, however, has come on strong this season, intercepting six passes and holding oppo­nents to 185 yards per game in the air, a great improvement over last years 267. 
Both the Irish and the Boilers have quality special teams. For the Irish, Craig Hentrich is booming punts at a 44.3 yard average, and has scored 15 points this year as the Irish kicker. Jeff Burris is coming into his own as a punt returner (18 yard average), but the Irish have yet to produce a consistent kickoff returner, and Holtz has tried several different players. 
The Boilermakers have slightly weaker returners, with Ernest Calloway running back punts at a 7.8 yard clip and Jeff Hill taking the kickoffs 16 yards a time. Punter Eric Bruun is lofting his kicks for a healthy 
40.1 yards, while kicker Joe O'Leary has 11 points (eight PAT in eight tries), and hitting his one field goal attempt. 
Bereich 
continued from page 1 
considerable amount of action-Bereich sees steady im­provement ahead. 
"We were really young com­ing into the season and you could see it in the first couple of games," said Bereich. "We did a lot of things that a young team would do, but we finally came together against Michigan State and showed ourselves what we can do." 
In the process, he may have caused some hard feelings in his family. His father Bob played running back for three years in East Lansing before playing professionally with the Dallas Cowboys. Notre Dame's National Championship in 1988, though, brought a little more holding power. 
"I grew up as a Michigan State fan, but when I was a ju­nior in high school ND won it all, so that got me a little more interested," said Bereich. "I came out for a few games and loved'it." 
Against the Spartans, the Irish defense held the Spartan rushing attack to 134 yards on 134 yards following after al­lowing Michigan to an unheard of 255 yards. Purdue utilizes the run to a tune of 219 yards a game. With the passing threat of quarterback Eric Hunter, Bereich realizes the potential success of their offense. 
Yet after a stellar perfor­mance last week, Bereich doesn't foresee an Irish letdown against the Boilers. 
"We've got some things in store to help put pressure on Hunter," said Bereich. "They've upset us more times than any other team, so we have to go in their with our heads screwed on right." 


perience. "We break to the ball a lot
Carter 
better, we just feel a lot more comfortable. A year later makes continued from page 2 
a whole difference," Carter
Carter. "He has that coaching remarks.
style, that we have to go do our More experience and speed in assignment, but you just go out 
the defensive backfield may
and play football." 
spell trouble for opposition
Another key to the improve­
quarterbacks, and may give
ment of the secondary is some­Tom Carter a chance for a few
thing that can't be taught-ex­
more encores. 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
-· 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community AI Lesar predict the outcomes of the South Bend Chen week's major college football Tribune Random games. Records are compiled as 26-19-0 Student to how each person does 26-19-0 




Jim Colletto 

The 32nd head coach in Purdue history, Colletto compiled a 17-38-1 record as head coach at Cal-State Fullerton. While he was an assistant at Ohio State, the Buckeyes went 19-13-2, and led the nation in total offense, scoring and rushing in 1989, as they earned a trip to the Hall of Fame Bowl. 
Eric Hunter 

A maturing passer, Hunter was 14-38 for 224 yards, two 'touchdowns and three interceptions against Eastern Michigan and California. Last season, he was 21-37 for 354 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions against Notre Dame. Hunter has also rushed for 39 yards on 16 carries. 

Jeff Zgonlna 

The 6-3, 270 nose guard from Long Grove, Ill., led all Big Ten linemen with 123 tackles last season, and has amassed 11 (eight solo, three assisted) in the first two games of 1991. He also ranked second in tackles for losses in the Big Ten last year (20 for -64 yards). 




-t  
Dave Dleteman Sports Editor 25-20-0  Rich Kurz Associate Sports Editor 25-20-0  Dave McMahon Associate Sports Editor  Rene Ferran Associate Sports Editor 24-21-0  Anthony King Assistant Sports Editor 21-24-0  
24-21-0  

against  the  spread.  Home  Last week's  
teams are in CAPS.  guest: 10-5  
~  Florida State 3 over MICH. Miami 24 over TULSA WASH. 39 over Kansas St. OKLA. 18 over Va. Tech TENN. 6.5 over Auburn CLEMSON 8 over Ga. Tech PENN ST. 25.5 over B.c. BYU 12 over Air Force FLORIDA 14 over Miss. St. Syracuse 18 over TULANE Baylor 23.5 over SMU Nebraska 5.5 over Ariz. St. Colorado 7 over STANFORD Pitt 10 over MINNESOTA Notre Dame 25 over PURD.  Wolverines Hurricanes Huskies Sooners Volunteers Yellow Jackets Eagles Falcons Gators Orangemen Bears Cornhuskers Buffaloes Gophers Irish  Seminoles Hurricanes Huskies Hoakies Volunteers Tigers Eagles Cougars Gators Green Wave Mustangs Cornhuskers Buffaloes Panthers Boilermakers  Seminoles Hurricanes Wildcats Sooners Volunteers Tigers Ninany Lions Cougars Bulldogs Orangemen Bears Cornhuskers Cardinal Panthers Irish  Seminoles Hurricanes Huskies Sooners War Eagles Yellow Jackets Nittany Lions Cougars Bulldogs Orangemen Bears Sun Devils Buffaloes Panthers Irish  Seminoles Hurricans Huskies Sooners Volunteers Tigers Nitanny Lions Falcons Bulldogs Orangemen Bears Sun Devils Cardinal Panthers Irish  Seminoles Hurricanes Wildcats Sooners War Eagles Tigers Eagles Falcons Bulldogs Orangemen Bears Sun Devils Buffaloes Panthers Irish  Seminoles Hurricanes Huskies Sooners Volunteers Yellow Jackets Nittany Lions Cougars Gators Orangemen Mustangs Corn huskers Cardinal Panthers Irish  

-

Irish at Purdue 

Directions to Purdue University: 
•Take 
US 31 south 

•Exit 
to IN 25 south 


•When 
entering Lafayette, turn right on US 52 

•Take 
a left on Northwestern Ave. This will take you past the stadium. 


Ataste of West Lafayette: fast or fine 
By ERIN KELLEHER and ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Accent Writers 
oadtripping can be a relatively spontaneous decision. Just throw some NO sweatshirts in a dufnebag, grab a couple 
f blank checks, and worry about ight accommodations when you 
there. A "No Vacancy" sign can be pretty lscouragl.ng after a long, hard 
p. Well, even if Purdue is not all that g and hard of a drive, students 
to stay in hotels need to Jan ahead. There are only two otels in Tippecanoe County with penlngs. 
The first is Lincoln Lodge, which is 5 miles South of Lafayette on State 
52. It costs $22-25 for a single, the Lodge is accepting reserva­
now. If you are interested, call 17-523-2111. 
The other available hotel is the Dollar Inn which is at the Intersection of 26 and 165. The Dollar Inn accepts walk-ins only and charges $24 for a single. 
There are numerous restaurants prepared to feed Irish fans. Instead of immediately making a run for the border, you m~~:y opt to patronize local cafes that are exclusively West Lafayette's. Although they are a little more expensive than Mickey D's, getting filled up on the tastes of the town is worth the extra dollars. Some of the restaurants with local appeal include: 
•Mr. 
V's Deli and Pizza 524 North 4th St., Lafayette 

•The 
Pub 407 Union St., Lafayette 

•Champ's 
Sports Bar Grill 610 South Earl Ave., Lafayette 

•Papa 
Bud's Pizza 3209 South 18th St., Lafayette 

•Terrace 
Garden Cafe 3001 Northwestern Ave., 

W. 
Lafayette 


•Beepers 
720 Northwestern Ave., 
W. Lafayette 
•The Oaks Smorgasbord 4950 U.S. 52 West, W. Lafayette 
Also available are numerous fast-food restaurants, including: 
•Arby's 
Roast Beef 351 Sagamore Parkway West W. Lafayette 463-2133 

•Burger 
King 1069 Sagamore Parkway West W. Lafayette 463-6713 

•Kentucky 
Fried Chicken 609 Sagamore Parkway West W. Lafayette 463-6212 

•White 
Castle Sagamore Parkway South Tippecanoe Mall W. Lafayette 44 7-4939 •McDonalds 124 E. State St. W. Lafayette 743-7440 

•Taco 
Bell 300 Sagamore Parkway W. Lafayette 463-1010 


What 
to do at
Purdue 
By CHRISTOPHER HANIFIN 
Accent Writer 

T 
hink of the average Notre Dame football fan on a road trip. As many Darners who made the trek to the Michigan game can tell you, it Is easy to build up quite an appetite taking part in activities such as cheering on the Irish or evading tear gas in an occasional early morning riot. 
For those who lack the resources to tailgate, few possibilities are available for the hungry diner. Fortunately, those members of the NO community who will journey to West Lafayette this weekend have been given an alternative to starva­tion: the Purdue Memorial Union. 
The Union is located on the corner of State and Grant Streets right on the Purdue campus. It is located on the southeast corner of the campus within easy walking distance of three parking garages. The Union Club maintains a two hundred room hotel which is probably just bursting with rabid Boilermaker fans about now, but it might be good to know for future reference. 
Truly wild and crazy Fighting Irish fans looking for a way to spend Friday night also won't want to miss the bowling lanes in the Union. Free shuttle service operates be­tween the Union and the football stadium beginning three hours before kickoff. 
The Memorial Union itself seems to be a Purduian parody of our own lovely LaFortune Student Center. The food should be tolerable, assuming of course that Purdue has no intention of poisoning any potentially obnoxious Domers. 
First of all, there is the Union Market, which was acclaimed in a Purdue brochure as "a food shopping masterpiece offering variety, quality and fast service." This can be translated to read "cafeteria, delicatessen, grill and salad bar." Nothing too extravagant, but It does operate all day, serving breakfast, lunch, and dinner. 
Another option which exists for the studenVconnoisseur is the Sagamore Room. Sure, the name sounds prohibitively ex­pensive for a college student whose main nutrients consist of cafeteria food, saltines and toothpaste, but maybe alumni and parents would like to venture over. 
The Sagamore offers a buffet, probably very much like the ones we experience on our own football Saturdays. The hours in the Sagamore are limited; It Is only open between 5 p.m.-7 p.m. on Saturdays. 
For those on a severely limited budget, the pre-football brunch at the Stone Hall Cafeteria sounds like a pretty good idea. It is a buffet-style pancake brunch on Saturday morning from 9 a.m. to noon. It costs aroun~ three dollars and is all-you­can-eat. 
Not too many campuses can touch the display of spirit we've got right here in South Bend, but Purdue should put on a pretty good show. If you have time to kill on Saturday, it might be worth your while to wander over to the Slater Center where a jazz band concert will take place at 10:30 
a.m. followed immediately by the marching band concert. 
And finally, for those of you who are into watching deciduous trees do their thing, Purdue has asked us to tell you about their beautiful Horticulture Park on State Street. Anyone wishing further information should feel free to call the Purdue Visitor Information Center at (317) 494-INFO. 
-
I 
~ 
page 14 The Observer 
A lover's quarrel I have with my church 
As a Catholic, I believe unhesi­tatingly in pro-life. the divinity of Father Robert Grlff.ln 
Christ, and the primacy of the Pope. As an American, I would be happy to see the overturn of the Letters to a Lonely God 
decision Roe Versus Wade; yet I •••••••••••••••••••••

don't think the Church would be well-served by anti-abortion control her own body? If the lower depth. Insensitivity toward 
legislation that would convince Church could keep women gays has often been the long suit women, fearful unto death of inspired with a reverence for life, of Catholics. Rome itself doesn't pregnancy, that the zealots had maybe Roe versus Wade would seem to have much more to offer succeeded in cutting them off at go out of business as a piece of Catholics, discovering their gay the pass. The notion, "Error has legislation whose point has identity, than "Nearer, my God, no rights, • was defeated at become moot. to Thee," as a theme song to get Vatican II. Did the Council mean Catholics and other Christians them through the night. that error that seems evil has may feel proud of themselves Now, from reading the news rights? If so, are "pro-choice• when they stage a sit-in at an magazines, you could get the im­laws an example of error that abortion clinic as team workers pression that gay priests have has rights in a pluralistic soci-_ engaged in Operation Rescue. become a danger to the Church, ety? Seen on television being lifted like the iceberg that sank the 
When the campus sweethearts into the paddy wagon by the lo-Titanic. We have already buried from Notre Dame and Saint cal cops, they look like fanatics a cardinal or two who were un­Mary's insist that women have a winning a skirmish, losing a der lifelong suspicion. Now a right to control what's happen-battle, though their cause may be bishop stands accused; priests in ing to their bodies, as a male good, their hearts in the right a number of cities have been who calls the plays on what's place. found guilty of interfering with happening to his own flesh and lads, and their dioceses may go blood, I couldn't agree more. As Fanaticism scares people; civil broke paying off the lawsuits; a cardiac patient, don't I insist disobedience angers them, espe-and Covenant House in New York on smoking? As a diabetic, don't cially when it ties up the police is struggling to survive the scan­1 continue to eat sweets? Don't I who are hired to be crime-stop-dal which cost it. the charismatic enjoy a double Manhattan sev-pers. Even the good will of other leadership of Father Ritter. eral times a week, even though Catholic pro-lifers is eroded by my doctor has decided that I the trouble-makers, desperate One newspaper estimates that shouldn't? for attention as moral cru-150 priests, out of 55,000, have 
I suspect that the ground rules saders. If they are on the right been charged with crimes. One change, once you've become side of God's truth, then truth suspects that the incidence responsible for the survival of proclaimed from the housetop, in among truck drivers would be another human being, Does a season and out, should be their much higher, but the sins of woman have the right to instrument. Confrontation humil-truck drivers don't sell terminate the life of her infant iates truth whose outward and newspapers; and maybe all we've five minutes AFTER it's born? visible sign should be the love seen so far is the tip of the ice­Five minutes BEFORE it's born? that casts out fear which heck-berg. Five days before it's born? Five ling generates. months before it's born? Obviously, the Church has some system, or if they hadn't been taught to think of themselves as damaged human beings. Priests who transwess as homosexuals have little hope of being forgiven by Catholics who trusted them to serve God faithfully. 
Priests who have been offered much love must have a hard time forgiving themselves for betraying trust. The sadness is that in losing them, we're losing some of the brightest and best; for don't seminaries go to great pains to recruit the brightest and the best? Though I wouldn't dream of asking tolerance for them, I'd hate having you think of them as monsters who hang out in public lavatories. 
I had an Irish mother who be­lieved that anything her children didn't know about sex couldn't 'hurt them; allowing my sister to enter marriage ignorant of the facts of life, she predestined my sister to a painful experience which left her shattered. 
The Church, which serves as gang that couldn't shoot 
straight. I love the mother who kept m sister ignorant, and I love th Church which suffers periodicall from tunnel-vision. It used rely on the Index of Prohibited Books, to save Catholics fro heresies and philosophical er rors. Now it outlaws "Dignity," to keep Catholics from being ex posed to alternate lifestyles. 
Because it is Church-related, a 
highly respected Catholic univer­sity, in existence for 150 years has to be run as a heterosexual ghetto, as pure as the drive slush. How does this prepare young gay-bashing males for life not only in the real world, but as member of Christ's Mystical Body, in which gays and straights alike are pardoned for having sinned and come short of the glory of God? 
I'd like the gay-bashers to un­derstand that they really don't know what ther are doing. It takes years of hstening to find out who's in the closet, and 
our mother, seems to favor the who's out-who's half in, half idea of homosexuals staying in out. All of us live, without suspi­their closet. The Church has cion, in the company of people turned its homosexual children with love in their hearts that into the members of . an dares not speak its name. No und~rgro_und co?Jmumt~. one's entitled to cause them pain Lackmg nghts, their code IS so intense that it invites thoughts secrecy, which is unhealthy for of suicide. them and unhealthy for us, because secrecy breeds fear, 
This is my 20th year of trying doubts, and suspicion. 
to defend gays in Observer columns I have written. I'm sorry When I was ordained in ~954, that after all this time, the 
At what point do the rights of As a priest at Notre Dame, I'm soul-searching to do over ordain-celibacy was a burden, but It was University hasn't been able to do the infant she is hosting in her appalled by the gay-bashing ing misfits, who ~ay not hav~ also a cre~ential of _coura!?e. more for students who help womb start playing second fiddle carried on by undergraduates, turned out to be misfits at all, If Now the celibate state IS startmg Notre Dame justify its existence to the rights a woman has to fearful of stereotypes out of the they had had a better support to look like a hiding place for the as Our Lady's school. 
MACAW'S NIGHTCLUB 


Loads ofFun· 
Giveaways 
7AM 

Breakfast Club Great Specials Starting a~ $1.00 
Location 1 block south of State Street Amoco Station 5 minutes from union 
7 PM Best Party Begins 
LARGE 2 LEVEL DANCE FLOOR GREAT SOUND & LIGHTS 
D.J. TIM PLAYS REQUESTS SUPER APPETIZERS NIGHTLY SPECIALS 
THE BEST PLACE TO PARTY 
743-1411 202 S. RIVER ROAD 743-1411 
FOUND: A pair of glasses in a  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Please, I need 3 Pitt GA's  I NEED Pm GA'S X3467  Jen,  
NOTICES  blue-gray glass case. (found between the library and PW)  WANTED. TOP$$$. BOo-638-7655.  Mattx3795  That was quite a comeback. I'm very impressed-obviously you  
Call Kevin at 283-2324 or at  WANTED: 3 Pm GA's lor  FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME  FOR SALE: PITI GA's  are quite the athlete. How often do  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII 25% off list price 10.5:30 everyday Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard  277-9311. FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN COUNTRY HARVESTER ON 9124. CALL 239-6714 AFTER 12:30 PM & IDENTIFY.  family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKSI HELP MEl Dan x2349 -USC TROJANS­-need SIX g.a.'s -CALL R 0 B at x1845  GAMES 273-1802 Need GA's lor Pitt., USC, and Tenn. Jay x1578  CALL x1781 MAKE OFFER I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306  you practice? R Staph/Karen (Or whoever you pretend to be)-l'm not sure ill remember who you are or not, but  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Typing Fast, Professional 277-7406 LIVE ROCK N' ROLL from west of here appearing at Club 23 Friday September '1:7 HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE. EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. REASONABLE DAILY RATE. CALL MELISSA 277-5708. BLACK WARDROBE SATURDAY 9128191 10 pm-2 am CLUB 23 BLACK WARDROBE NOTRE DAME VIDEO "NEW MOVIES" -Awakenings -Dances With Wolves -Edward Scissorhands -New Jack City -Home Alone "SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES" LaFortune Student Center 4:00 -11 :00 p.m. Seven days a week  MAKE $150-300 in 3-10 hrs. by selling 50 Iunny college T-shirts. No financial obligation. Smaller or larger quantities available. Call tollfree 1-800-Z28-2053. Babysitter wanted for 3 &5 y.o. boys for the occ. wkday or wkend with light hsekeeping. $4/hr. 287-3694. Ride to DAYTON on Sunday. Call Jessica X4818 0-C Senior needs 4 USC GAs desperately 288-0933 WANTED: Off-campus roommate. Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. HELPII DESPERATELY need 4 GA's lor USC lor family II Alice x4907 Desperately need ride lor Oct. Break-anywhere on LI,NY Please helpll X2172 Keri BABYSITIER NEEDED TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8-5 FOR ONE-YEAR OLD. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL SUSAN 259-6006.  Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade for 4 Pitt GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. I NEED 4 TENNESSEE G.A.'S $$$ SEAN H. @289-6439. NEED: ND ALUM NEEDS TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL ND HOME GAMES. CALL JOE AT 1271-1430. NEED1 PITIGA Sheri x2191 PLEASE HELPII NEED 2 PITI GA's. X-1750 Kyle PITI TIX PITT TIX PITI TIX Alum needs 2 GA's lor Pitt. Will pay $$$. Call at work (312) 701-0204orathome (708) 616-7818 anytime. PITI TIX Pm TIX PITI TIX 2G.A.,s Stanford For Sale Call John @4050 NEEDED: SIX TENN. GAs call Jeremy 277-4873 Need one Navy GAlli-cali Elien-277-4892 WANTED: 2 NDITN tickets. CAll 502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm  Need Navy GA's---call Derek at x1374 NEEDED: 3 G.A.'s to USC game please call Mike at x1578 Need Tenn GAs Have$$$$ Karen x4808 HELPI TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED Please call Sam Santo at (201)217-0030 (home) or (201) 992-8700 (work). HEYI Ill I NEED PITI TIX AND MY DAD IS WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL X2068 AND ASK FOR ANN MARIE I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.s LYNN x-3890 I'M SHIT OUT OF LUCK....UNLESS YOU SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S LOG VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. GA'S FOR HIS DOMER RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS Zl PLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR 3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER  I NEED PURDUE TIXS.272-6306 I PERSONAL I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. $$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1 563 Happy birthday Joe Roberts. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + CASHI CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP + BONUS CASH! FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. Monica Eigelbarger is a ho. Are you going to PURDUE? I need a ride. Beth x4341 FAST EASY INCOME I EARN 1OO'S WEEKLY STUFFING ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: FAST INCOME P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 "#"#'#"#"#"#"#"#'1"#"1  your earring was good, and that's 1 that matters. Happy Birthday, T&D Wish Gwen Ward a Happy 21st an ask her, Where's my shovel? Gwen Ward will be sober as usual for her 21st. NOTIII There will be NO social drinking. Roll down the window Let the wind blow back your hair. Well, the night's busting open These two lanes will take us anywhere. We've got one last chance to malu it real, To trade in these wings on some wheels ... It's a town lor loosers And I'm pulling out of here to win. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. LEARN TO SKYDIVE I Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Eastem time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665.  
BABYSITIER NEEDED EVERY SUNDAY MORNING FOR  collect.  1AM  HEY  P.W.­ CLUB 23  
T: Student I. . card case w/ temporary I.D., driver's license, and other cards belonging to Francis Kelly. PLEASE return to 307 CarrolII Found: EYEGLASSES on north quad between BP and Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &daim My girlfriend gave me a black, green and yellow bead before her car wreck and I lost it 22 Sep about 7:15pm between the Rocke and D6 parking. II  CHURCH NURSERY. CALL JAN FOR MORE INFO. 291-4717. PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA Now hiring drivers 10-40 hrs. per wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible schedules & perks. Call today 271­1177. HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2 BR house with Grad M. Avail NOW. 288-3878 Lv msg. [ ~~R RENT ED'N AkFAST REGisTRY 219-291-7153  HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S & TENN ST. NEED 4 PITI GA'S. X2204. I have 2 NAVY GAs will trade lor 2 PITI GAs call Nicole at x3719 I need tickets lor the Tennessee game. Call 277-6693. NEED 1 OR 2 Pm GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272-1967. PLEASE Ill NEED 2 TIX FOR TENN GAME II X1684 NEED 1 GA FOR PITISBURGH JOE X1360  I NEED 5 TICKETS TO NDIPITI BIG $$$ CALL MATI AT 277­4673 '68 ALUM DESPERATELY WANTS 2 GA'S TO TENNORUSC CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 DESPERATELY SEEKING PITI AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM LIZ-3783 OR 2184 Purdue tickets lor saleI Call Carrie @4029. -­2 PITI GA's NEEDED­-BIGMONEY­ OUEEN WEEK IS HEREII Come out and support your section queen canidates. The Schedule: Today-The World's slowest bike race. In front of PW at 7pm Wed-Cartoon Nite. In the Party room at 8pm Thurs-Jello Tug-of-war and Barbeque. In Mod Quad at Spm  & VIC'S SUBS are now open from 11 amto3am The only alternative Live Music and Specials (T Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234-4015 I am in desperate need of a ride to CINCINNATI this weekend. Please call Sean at X1496. ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with  
you found it plz call David at 289-3234.  House lor Rent  HAVE 2 Purdue GA's. x4092  Call Rachel271-1497  and...the grand finale....  warmth & love. Can provide financial security & education.  
FOUND: Denim jacket in parking lot behind ACC on Saturday. Call  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 8am-4pm. 1310 South Bend Ave.  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL  Have 6 tix to Stanford. Make offer. call x1563  The Road to Royalty SYR with a coronation at Midnight.  MedicaVIegal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling  
x4076. LOST: ND CLASS RING AT  Furnished apts. near N.D. cozy 1 bedrm $255  601 -249-3417 NIGHTS. FOR SALE: TWO PURDUE  NEED 2 GA's FOR Pm, USC, AND TENN. CALL GREG x2092  Get dates I Get psyched I and Support your Queenill  Maureen & Jim 1-800-456-2656.  
SENIOR BAR OR LINEBACKER. BLACK ONYX WITH M.F.  dean 2 bedrrn $340, dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320.  GA TICKETS. IF INTERESTED, CALL CHRIS AT 234-5193.  Need 3-4 Pm. TICKETS. Will  '#"#"#'#"1"#"#"#"1"1"1'  We ARE the 12th man and they're on OUR yardlinel 
CARROLL INSCRIBED IN IT.  pay the big bucksI Jeff234-2396.  
REWARD. CALL MIKE 271-8159. ·····Losr··..... EYEGLASSES on north quad. gold and brown rims in a tan leather  NOTRE DAME AVE.2 BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T-Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone  Helpl3 GAs needed lor PITI Call X1678  •• I NEED 2 NAVY GAs •• 239-8332 HAVE 2 PITI 2 NAVY TIX;  WASHINGTON D.C. CLUBIIIII There will NOT be a bus going home for Oct. break. WASHINGTON D. C. CLUBIIII  AUDITIONS II lor Wash. Hall Mainstage production of THE CHRISTMAS CAROL  
case. II found PLEASE call Usa at X4837. LOST Saphira Braclet Reward if found Call Heather 277-5280 FOUND men's gold watch in  Game Day Promotions 291-0394. I FOR SALE I OVER40%0FF Hawaii plane tickets--CHEAP! -Over Thanksgiving to see the ND football game in Honolulu. Call x3457 tor info.  I HAVE TWO PUFlDUE TICKETS FOR SALE Ill CALL X2670 ASK FOR JEANNE $$$$$ NEED 3 USC OR TENN TIX  NEED 2 USC TIX: WILL SWAP 201-487-9000 4 PURDUE GAs FOR SALE Ill Call Wendy x3731 WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097  URGENTI Rich Alumnus needs 2 PITI TIX Kathleen@ x3726 X4132. GUITARIST NEEDED lor campus funk band. James Brown, Fishbone, Prince, Etc. Call X1678  on 9-29 and 9-30 at 7pm in the Library Auditorium Questions?? call Sherry @ 289-7829 Two PURDUE tixll They're together. Will sell @ costlll  
Fitz computer lab Wed. night call11245 LOST-MY LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading "D TROIT"Iost Thurs. 19 Sept. somewhere between Stanley Kaplan Center (next to Turtle  MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES, PLAYS ND VICTORY MARCH. $10. ORDER YOURS NOW. BETTY 239-7458 OR 289-1321 COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr, $700/bst John@271 -9239  CALL MICHELE 272-6327 FULFILL MY NEEDSIll 2 PITI & 4 TENN GA CALL TIM #1706 Need 2 or 4 PITI GAs. Will pay $$$ Call Pat, 234-3973 _after 6PM  NEED 2 GAs FOR PITI CALL 284-5005 I HAVE 3 NAVY GA'S MIKE X1161 People who haven't seen condoms  ATIN SENIORS and all interested undergrads: Don't miss out on volunteer opportunities. 40 service groups will be at the post-grad lair Oct. 2 at the CSC. Come find out what's available I  Call Geo @ 1 002. Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISIN SEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEX s  
Creek) and the D-2 lot. PLEASE call  Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100  N.D. ALUM DESPERATELY  play football before need 4 USC  E  E  
if you have it or any information -it's going to cost a bundle to replace. Reward offered lor return -no questions asked. Call4911. FOUND: SEIKO WATCH AT THE GROTIO. CALL & DESCRIBE 284­5188. LOST: An Indiana driver's liscance  386sx mthrbrdlupgrade your PCI $350,386 notebook 40megs, VGA, $2400/b Mattx1778 For Sale: Tix to DC for October Break 10118-10/25 $200 or negotiable  NEEDS 2 G.A. TIX TO USC. WILLING TO PAY UP TO $250 PER TICKET. CONTACT SUE HOYT 1-800-672-0963 NEED TENN. AND NAVY TIX. HAVE PITI AND USC STUD. TO TRADE OR SELL. JOE X 2064  GA's. Call John at 283-1 689 I need 2 USC tix Tom #3109 Must trade Tenn stud tix for GA'sl Call Tim x1640. I need 4 GA's lor the USC game.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY I HEY BEAVERS-ANGIE GEEK AND ALI-BABA. SKANKY BEAVERS LOVE YOU. EAT YOUR SALAD AND YO-CREAM ,All. FIGURE OUT WHO YOU ARE ANGIE/SLASHICHIPPYILIZARD KING/ANGELE ...YOU SCHITZOI PAID FOR BY S.O.A.  X TO THE TEQUILA MAMA X S AND SEXUAL DYNAMO : S E HAVE AN AWESOME E X 20th BIRTHDAY X S JOCIE MALIK 111111 S E E XSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSE X  
and St. Mary's I.D. Call Sara during the day@ (708) 866-8700 and in the evening @ (312) 281-5166. LOST OR STOLEN LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading "D TROll" missing since  Call 284-4452 TICKETSI I NEED 5-6 Tenn. GA's Will Pay Big $$$$$$$$ Call Sean @4274  NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371I i need 2 GA's lor NAVY. Pete x1791 Need 4 USC GA's Call Bill X1143  Please call Carla at x5404 NEED 3 USC GA TIX; CALL DAVE 283-1545. 2 Purdue GA's lor sale: Dave 283­1545  I AM THE LIZARD QUEEN AND I CAN DO THE LIZARD KING. ATIENTION MICH. ST. VIEWERS! I need a copy of the Mich St. vs. ND '91 game on video lor a spirited ND fan who missed it. Contact Gabrielle at x2855  COLLEEN LOEFFLER (in lnnsbruck), Hope you are having a great timeI We miss you and all of your fabulous advice! I'm sure you're having a blast though. How's the  
Thurs. 19 Sept.: came oil somewhere between Kaplan Educational Center (next to Turtle Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's cute, but it will cost a bundle to replace so PLEASE return II you have it and no questions will be  NEED 2GA OR 1STD/1 GA FOR USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL MARK COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161.  NEEDEDI Pitt GAs Navy stud. II you can help call Scott 2373. I NEED TENN TIX BADLVI CALL MIKE AT 1103.  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND TENN. CALL TOM X1762 NEED 4 G.A. TIX TO ANY HOME  Does love exist? Per Nancy... Well, Nance, Show me a man who will forsake his reputation lor love, and I'll say, maybe.  food (let's get right to the point here)? Hope to hear from you soonI Love, Jeanne and Collynn..........................................  
askedII If you have the plate or info, call4911. Generous reward ollered.  need GA's to TENN game lisa 2572  NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's lor Alum. Please call Susan: 284-4435  GAME. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. TIM #1763  All Bears fans take it in the mouth II -General Sanchez.  see CLASS I page 7  
L. --­ 

Friday,Se~ember27, 1991 
The Observer 
The Observer accepts clasalfleda fN&ry bU6Inesa day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at !h Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day ctaasWieds le 3p.m. All clasalfleda must be prepaid. Tt.
Classifieds 
charge Ia 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
20 Friday, September 27, 1991 
~eag~e~-----------------SCOREBOARD 
BASEBALL LEADERS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

BATTING-Franco, Texas, .341; GriiTey Jr. 
Seattle, .332; Boggs, Boston, .332; Palmelro, 
Texas, .324; Tartabull, Kansas City. .324; 
Molitor, Milwaukee, .323; Puckett, Minnesota, 
.321; CRlpken, Baltimore, .321. 
RUNS-Molltor, Milwaukee, 122; Palmelro, 
Texas, 111; canseco, Oakland, 109; Sierra, 
Texas, 106; White, Toronto, 106; Franco, 
Texas, 103; Thomas, Chicago, 98: Raines, 
Cblcago, 98. 

RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 128; Canseco, Oakland, 
114; Sierra, Texas, 112; Carter, Toronto, 106; 
Thomas, Chicago, 104; CRlpken, Baltimore, 
101; JuGonzalez, Texas, 99. 

HITS-MoUtor, Milwaukee, 199; Palmelro, 
Texas, 192; Sierra, Texas, 191; CRlpken, 
Baltimore, 191; Franco, Texas, 189; Puckett, 
Minnesota, 188; Sax, New York, 183. 
DOUBLES-Palmelro, Texas, 46; GriiTey Jr, 
Seattle, 42; Sierra, Texas, 42; CRlpken, 
Baltimore, 42; Carter, Toronto, 41; RAiomar, 
Toronto, 40; Reed, Boston, 40. 

TRIPLE5--Molltor, Milwaukee, 12; RAiomar, Toronto, 11; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; McRae, Kansas City, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; Devereaux, Baltimore, 8; Mack, Minnesota, 8; Polonla. California, 8. HOME RUN5--Fielder, Detroit, 43; Canseco, Oakland, 42; Carter, Toronto, 33; Tartabull, Kansas City, 31; CRipken, Baltimore, 31; Thomas, Chicago, 30; Belle, Cleveland, 28; Tettleton, Detroit, 28; CDaYis, Minnesota, 28. STOLEN BASE5--RHenderson, Oakland, 52; RAiomar. Toronto, 51; Raines, Chicago, 50; Polonla. California, 46; Cuyler, Detroit, 38; White, Toronto, 33; Franco, Texas, 31. PITCHING (15 Declslons)-Hesketh, Boston, 11·4, .733, 3.21; Erickson, Minnesota, 19·7, .731. 3.32; Langston, California, 17·8, .680, 3.15; Clemens, Boston, 17·8, .680, 2.43; Gullickson, Detroit, 19·9, .679, 3.94: Tapanl, Minnesota. 16-8, .667, 2.87; JoGunnan, Texas, 12·6, .667, 3.20; Ryan, Texas, 12-6, .667, 2.92. 
STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 217; RJohnson, Seattle, 216; Ryan, Texas, 187; McDowell, Cblcago, 186; Langston, California, 167; Candlottl, Toronto, 163; Swindell, Cleveland, 161. 
SAVES-Harvey, California, 43; Eckersley, Oakland, 42; Aguilera, Minnesota, 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Henke, Toronto, 32; Montgomery, Kansas City, 31; Olson, Baltimore, 30; Thigpen, Chicago, 30. 
PENNANT RACES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

BATTING-Morris, Cincinnati, .322: TGwynn, 
San Diego, .317: McGee, San Francisco, .315; 
Pendleton, Atlanta, .313: Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 
.306; Jose, St. Louis, .305; Larkin, Cincinnati, 
.304. 

RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 106; Johnson, New York, 104; Bon!Ua, Pittsburgh, 97; Sandber:g, Chicago, 96; Gant, Atlanta, 94; 
JBeU, Pittsburgh, 91: Pendleton, Atlanta, 90. 
RBI-Johnson, New York, 111: WCiark, San 
Francisco, 107: Bonds, Pittsburgh, 106: 
McGriff, San Diego, 1 02; Dawson, Chicago, 
101; Gant, Atlanta, 99; BonUla, Pittsburgh, 95. 
HIT5--Butler, Los Angeles, 174; Pendleton, 
Atlanta, 172: TGwynn, San Diego, 168; 
Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 167: Jose, St. Louis, 166; Sabo, Cincinnati, 164; Grace, Chicago, 162; Sandberg, Cblcago, 162. 
DOUBLES-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 43; Jose, St. 
Louis, 40; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Zeile, St. 
Louis, 33; Morris, Cincinnati, 32: Sabo, 
Cincinnati. 32: Gant, Atlanta, 32; Pendleton, Atlanta, 32; McReynolds, New York, 32. TRIPLES-Lankford, St. Louis, 15; TGwynn, San Diego, 11; Finley, Houston, 10: LGonzalez, 
Houston, 9: Grissom, Montreal, 8; JBell, Pittsburgh, 7: Candaele, Houston, 7: Pendleton, Atlanta, 7; Van Slyke, Pittsburgh, 
7; Owen, Montreal, 7. HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 37; Gant, Atlanta, 31; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 31; McGrliT, San Diego, 30; Dawson, Chicago, 29: O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; KvMitchell, San Francisco, 27. STOLEN BASES-Grissom, Montreal, 73; 
Nixon, Allanta, 72: DeShields, Montreal, 56; 
Bonds, Pittsburgh, 41; Lankford, St. Louis, 39; 
Butler, Los Angeles, 38; Coleman, New York, 37. 
PITCHING. (15 Declslons)-Rijo. Cincinnati, 14·5, .737, 2.41: Smiley, Pittsburgh, 18·8, .692, 3.29: MIWIIIiams, Philadelphia, 11·5, .687, 2.17: Avery, Atlanta, 17-8, .680, 3.42; Hurst, San Diego, 15-8, .652, 3.29: Greene, Philadelphia, 13-7, .650, 3.21: Gooden, New York, 13-7, .650, 3.60. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 209; GMaddux, Cblcago, 181; Glavlne, Atlanta, 177: Harnisch, Houston, 164: Benes, San Diego, 158; Greene, Philadelphia, 154; Gooden, New York, 150. SAVES-LeSmlth, St. Louis, 43; Dibble, Cincinnati, 31: MIWllllams, Philadelphia, 30; Franco, New York, 27; Righetti, San Francisco, 24: Lefferts, San Diego, 22; BLandrum, Pittsburgh, 17: DaSmlth, Chicago, 
17: Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 
TRANSACTIONS

AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division BASKETBALL FOOTBALL 
w L Pet. G8 USA BASKETBALL-Named Ed Lacerte, Boston National Football League Toronto 85 68 .556 Celllcs physical therapist-trainer, to a similar NEW YORK GIANTS-Placed Erik Howard, Boston 82 70 .539 2112 position with the 1992 U.S. Olympic team nose tackle, on Injured reserve. Signed· Greg 
Detroit 77 74 .510 7 National Basketball A1180clation Meisner, nose tackle. Released Jerry Bouldin, 
Remaining Games CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Mark Randall, wide reciever, from the practice squad. TORONTO (9) -Home (6): Sept. forward, to a 1-year contract. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Piaced Ron Lewis. 27·29, Minnesota: Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, WASHINGTON BULLETs-Signed Wes Unseld, wide receiver, on Injured reserve. Re-signed 
California. Away (3): Oct. 4·6, Minnesota. coach, to a 3·year contract. Jim Burt, nose tackle. BOSTON (10)-Home (6): Oct. 1· 
3, Detroit: Oct. 4·6, Milwaukee. Away (4): Sept. 27·30, Milwaukee. 
DETROIT (11) -Home (5): Sept. 
26, Cleveland; Sept. 27-30, Baltimore. Away (6): Oct. 1·3, Boston; Oct. 4-6, Baltimore. 
w ... t Division 
w L Pet. GB Minnesota 91 61 .599 Chicago 83 69 .546 8 Remaining Games 

MINNESOTA (10} Home (3}: 
Oct. 4·6, Toronto. Away (1}: Sept. 27·29, Toronto: Sept. 30-0ct. 1·3, Cblcago. 
CHICAGO (10) -Home In: Sept. 27-29, Seattle: Sept. 30-0ct. 1·3, Minnesota. HAPPY BIRTHDAY STEPH CALMEYN! Away (3}: Oct. 4·6, Seattle. Steph's Top Ten Quotes: 
0. My life is one big party waiting to happen. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
. I ate too much pizza. 

W""t Division W L Pel. GB . Let's yo-cream it! 
Los Angeles 88 65 .575 • Girl, you need to zap that cap with leisure curl. Atlanta 86 66 . 566 1 112 
. When I walk into a room heads tum, just the wrong way. 
Remaining Games LOS ANGELES (9} -Home (6): . I'm just a fraction waiting to be whole. 
Sept. 27·29, San Francisco: Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, . Age does not diminish the joy of sex, I mean the extreme San Diego. Away (3): Oct. 4-6, San Francisco. 
disappointment of having the scoop of icecream fall from 
ATLANTA (10) -Home (4): Sept. 
the cone.

26, Cincinnati: Oct. 4·6, Houston. Away (6): Sept. 27·29, Houston; Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, .I'm stuP.id, I'm ugly, & doggone it everybody hates me. Cincinnati. 
. It was such a chore! 

. My earing is somewhere waiting to be digested. Steph, you're the greatest & we love you! Love, HOT BP GALS 

SUNDAY'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

East Division  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Toronto  85  68  .556  
Boston  82  70  .539  2112  
Detroit  78  74  .513  6112  
Milwaukee  7 4  77  .490  10  
New York  65  87  .428  19 112  
Baltimore  64  88  .421  20 112  
Cleveland  52  99  .344  32  
West Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Minnesota  91  61  .599  
Chicago  83  69  .546  8  
Texas  80  71  .530  10112  
Oakland  80  72  .526  11  
Kansas City  78  75  .510  13 112  
Seattle  76  76  . 500  15  
CaUfomla  76  77  .497  15 112  

NATIONAL LEAGUE  
East Division  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
x·Pittsburgh 93  59  .612  
St. Louis  79  7 4  .516  14 112  
Philadelphia 73  80  .477  20112  
Chicago  72  79  .477  20 112  
New York  72  79  .477  20112  
Montreal  68  84  .447  25  
West Division  
W  L  Pel  GB  
Los Angeles 88  65  .575  
Atlanta  86  67  .562  2  
San Diego  78  75  .510  10  
Cincinnati  73  80  .477  15  
San Franclsco71  82  .464  17  
Houston  62  91  .405  26  
x-cUnched division title .  

PUT ON SOMETHING COMFORTABLE AND STEP IN" 

SPORTS RESTAURANT LOUNGe 
•FREE! POPCORN 
FRIDAY-SATURDAY 
•SATEWTE SPORTS 
SEPT. 27 & 28
•FIVE T.V.s TO WATCH THE GAME 
A WEB OF LIES 
•BASKETBALL SHOOT 
•FIVE DART BOARDS 
•PIZZAS FROM SCRATCH 0 f1JJ\'9 ~ ~iJlWX J ~~\IL I~ J'TU'@ Il1J/;..\ J[tJJ 1'11 ~IJiJ'J 
•EVERV 
FRIDAV AND SATURDAY NIGHT 

•CONVENIENTLY 
LOCATED JUST 



Located II)'{Jnlverslty Lanes -1602 N.lronwood-233-BOWL 

Exceeding Expectations 

At Deloitte & Touche, our mission is to consistently exceed the expectations of our clients and our people. 
For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. 
So why not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? · 
Member 
un i International
--· 

To learn more about how we can exceed your expectations, stop by and see us. 
Event: Fall Interviews (Audit and Tax, all locations) 
Date: October 7-8, 1991 
Location: Career and Placement Office 
Time: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Deloitte& 
Touche 

Deloltte & Touche Is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 
page 22 Friday, September 27, 1991
The Observer 

Boston blows chance to tighten race 
Red Sox, Orioles split twinbill; Slaught's double beats Mets 
Women's golf faces toughest challenge yet at U. of Illinois 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Dwight Evans cost his old team a chance to move up in the AL East, drawing a bases-loaded walk with two outs in the ninth inning that gave the Baltimore Orioles a 6-5 victory Thursday and a doubleheader split that stung the Boston Red Sox. 
The split left Boston exactly where it started the day, 2 1/2 games behind the Blue Jays. The Red Sox won the opener 2­1 behind Roger Clemens' seven-hitter. Clemens (18-8) struck out 10, raising his major-league leading total to 227, did not walk a batter and lowered his to ERA 2.38, best in the majors. 
Royals 3, Angels 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Jim Eisenreich hit a two-run single and the Kansas City Royals edged California 3-2 in the opener of a four-game series between teams fighting to stay out of last place. 
Mark Gubicza (9-11) pitched five innings and beat the Angels in Royals Stadium for the frrst time since Sept. 29, 1986. Tom Gordon pitched 2 2-3 innings and Jeff Montgomery went 1 1­3 innings for his 32nd save. 

longest game of the season for Bonds led off the 15th with a both teams. single against Wally Whitehurst (7-12) and Slaught followed 
Pittsburgh, which clinched with a hit-and-run double to the NL East title on Sunday, has right-center field. Landrum (3­won eight of its last nine games. 4) pitched two innings for the The Mets have lost seven of 10. victory. 

Red Sox pitcher Roger Clemens pitched a seven-hitter in the first game of a doubleheader against the Orioles yesterday. 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

After a record breaking per­formance at last weekend's Michigan State Invitational, the Notre Dame women's golf team travels to Champaign, Illinois for the University of Illinois Invitational beginning today. 
At Michigan State, the Irish finished lOth in the 18-team field, but their 54-hole total of 949 broke the previous school record by 22 strokes and their second-round total of 308 sur­passed the single round record by eight strokes. 
Now that the Irish have ac­complished their goal of breaking 310 in a single round, their next challenge is to break the 300 mark. Coach Tom Hanlon knows it won't be an easy task, but he believes his team has the talent to reach that plateau. 
"It will take some good shooting, but we're not that far away," he noted. 
Senior captain Allison Wojnas has played a big part 
·in the success of the team this 
season. She finished in sixth 
place at Michigan State with a 
226 total, just three shots 
behind medalist Nicole Jeray 
of Northern Illinois. 

Sophomore Chrissy Klein 
was next for the Irish at 240, 
followed by classmate Denise 
Paulin at 241. Alicia Murray 
completed the 54-hole event 
at 244 and freshman Katie 
Cooper, in her first collegiate 
event, carded a final round 80 
to finish at 257. Sophomore 
Jennifer Nigon's 273 rounded 
out the Irish scoring. 

Another tough field is 
assembled this weekend at 
Illinois. Among others, the 
entire Big 10 will be 
represented in Champaign 
and Hanlon believes the tough 
opposition will take notice 
after last weekend's per­
formance in East Lansing. 
"We're making some 
waves," he commented. "I 
think we're surprising some 
teams who didn't think we 
were capable of playing so 
well." 
Pirates 4, Mets 3 
NEW YORK -Don Slaught's double in the 15th .inning scored Barry Bonds from first base and Pittsburgh began a doubleheader by beating New York 4-3 Thursday in the 
Toronto group shows interest in buying Zephyrs 
DENVER (AP) -The owner of Denver's Triple-A baseball franchise, the Denver Zephyrs, is considering selling the team to a group of Toronto investors who would move it to a subur­ban Toronto location. 
Stan Stosjn, a consultant for the Toronto investors, con­firmed Wednesday that the in­vestors want to build a stadium and land a Triple-A franchise, according to a report in the Rocky Mountain News. 
The group plans to build a stadium about 30 miles north of the downtown Toronto, ac­cording to the report. Among the investors is former Toronto Blue Jays catcher Ernie Whitt. 
Zephyrs owner John Dikeou is asking $4.8 million for the franchise, a price Stosin said is within the investors' range. Dikeou purchased the franchise in 1984 and must sell the club before the Colorado Rockies begin play in the National League in 1993. 


•Budget 
airfares anyvvhere. 

•International 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lnternat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Deabom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951-0585 
Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel Catalog! 


PROCTER & GAMBLE 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we
FINANCE 
can learn more about you. 
NOTRE DAME RECRUITJNG 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1991 UPPER LOUNGE,UNNERSI1Y CLUB 
7:00 .. 9:00PM 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES 
OCTOBER 2 & 3, 1991 

Friday, September 27, 1991 The Observer page 1 9 

page 24 Friday, September 27, 1991
The Observer 

Las Vegas courts MAC-Big Men's tennis opens '91 season at home 
West championship game Dilucia injured as Irish stage 5th annual Fallon Invitational 
TOLEDO, Ohio (AP) -A bowl game between the champions of the Mid-American and Big West conferences could be moved to Las Vegas, Nev., the leagues' commissioners said. 
Champions from the two leagues have met since 1981 at the California Bowl in Fresno, Calif., home of Fresno State University, which is leaving the Big West after this season. 
California Bowl officials have indicated they probably will end the MAC-Big West arrangement following this year's game on Dec. 14. 
MAC Commissioner Karl Benson said Thursday that Las Vegas has expressed interest in having the game, beginning in December 1992. 
"This is exactly what we had 
hoped for, that another site would step forward," Benson said. "We have a defmite inter­est in continuing an arrange­ment with the Big West that would provide a postseason opportunity for our football champion." 
A new bowl game probably would be played at the 32,000­seat Silver Bowl on the campus of the University of Nevada-Las Vegas. The Las Vegas Convention and VIsitors Bureau is leading the effort to organize the game. 

,• 
Big Red attack 
Nevada-Reno replaces Fresno State next season in the Big West, of which UNLV already is a member. 
Big West Commissioner Jim Haney told The (Toledo) Blade that a bowl game in Las Vegas was far from certain. 
"In terms of a final decision, if I were to equate it to a football game, I'd say we're about 25 yards into our drive," Haney told the newspaper. "There's a ways to go, but there is genuine desire to make it happen." 
"We feel the California Bowl has benefited both conferences and that it's important that our relationship doesn't change," he said. 
Sponsorship and other money issues would have to be com­pleted and certain NCAA guide­lines would have to be met be­fore the bowl game could be­come a reality, he said. 
The proposed bowl would have to receive a waiver from NCAA rules that require a minimum payout of $1.6 million per team for a Division 1-A bowl games. 
"The NCAA always provided the California Bowl with such a waiver," Benson said. "In this situation, I would hope the NCAA would look favorably on the two conferences and the positions we're in." 
The Observer/Andrew Mc:Cioskey 

The Dillon interhall football team looks to avenge a14-0 loss to Off­Campus last weekend against Morrissey this Sunday. A complete interhall football schedule is in Scoreboard. 
1~1 MINISTRIES WORKSHOPS 
0fv\PIJS 
MNISTRY 

Eucharistic Ministers Sunday, September 29, 2:30 pm OR -Tuesday, October 1, 10:00 pm Sacred Heart Church 
Presider: Fr. Joseph Ross, esc Homilisr: Sr. M. J. Griffin, osf 
It is required that individuals be prepared through the workshop in order to be commissioned to serve as eucharistic ministers in 
the Notre Dame community. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
The Irish men's tennis team opens its 1991-1992 season this weekend as 16 teams from around the country converge at Notre Dame for the fifth annual Tom Fallon Invitational. 
Unfortunately, All-American team leader David DiLucia will be out of action for the Irish. Thursday, DiLucia aggravated a muscle pull at the ITCA clay court championships in Wilm­ington, N.C. DiLucia lost his first-round match to Yasser Zatini of East Tennessee State, 6-3, 6-3. 
"It had been raining for two days straight and the courts were very slippery," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "David went with a slightly pulled ham­string, and he reinjured the leg on the clay." 
Without DiLucia, the Irish will face individuals from 15 schools from around the coun­try, including lOth-ranked Kentucky, Michigan, Michigan State, Colorado and Army. 
The quintet of Chuck Coleman, Will Forsyth, Ron Rosas, Mark Schmidt, and Andy Zurcher will lead the Irish to the Courtney Tennis Center to face these opponents. Without DiLucia, Bayliss will look for at least one of these five returning juniors to excel. 
"Any of those guys could do well, but I think Zurcher is a favorite in his division," said Bayliss. "But we can't really tell." 
The reason for much of the indecision is the infrequent r.ourt time that the Irish have 
had this fall. 

Bayliss' practice schedule has been limited due to new NCAA regulations, which limit the Irish to 24 weeks of practice for the entire 1991-92 season, which extends to the end of the school year in May. 
"It's limited to eight weeks in the fall," said Bayliss. "The fall has been difficult because we're really jumping into play without the preparation we are used to." 
Except for those 24 weeks, the Irish tennis team cannot practice under the supervision of the coaches, and the Bayliss staff is prohibited from even organizing practice times. 
"It's like taking a course in . which you cannot go to the pro­fessor for help," said Bayliss. "But those are the rules, so of course we will follow them." 
As for the Fallon Invitational, Bayliss sees competition coming from several individuals. 
"I think that Steve Campbell of Rice, Wisconsin's Joey Dee and Brian Nelson, and Indiana's Nigel Russell are all good players," said Bayliss. "Colorado even has two out­standing Swedish players. 
"I'm happy with the tourna­ment because it brings teams from every geographic region and from the major confer­ences." 

Presence & Proclamation: 
Lectors Orientation Workshop 
Wednesday, October 2, 10:00 pm Sacred Heart Church 
Presenters: Dr. James O'Rourke Kate Sullivan 
We ENCOURAGE you to come and be :~prepared to share the gift of word in you. Enthusiasm for the word of God is a sign of the presence of the spirit amongst us. 

Sophomore Chuck Coleman will have ~o carry ~ bi~ger _load !o.r the Irish this weekend with the loss of AII-Amencan Dav1d D1Luc1a to Injury. . 
Great Tastes Begin Here ... 
~ 2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 
262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 

120 N. Main Mishawaka, IN 
Resta•ranl 255-7737 
Reservations A reciated 

--~---------­

Friday, September 27, 1991 The Observer page 25 
The Observer/David lee The Notre Dame men's cross country will try to defend ~s National Catholics Invitational title today at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Cross country teams host Invitational 
Men defend National Catholics title against talented field 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross 
country team is ready to race 
as the annual National Catholic 
Meet returns to Burke 
Memorial Golf Course today at 
3 p.m. 
Last year, the Irish dominated the field and captured six of the top seven spots. Sophomore Mike McWilliams finished sec­ond overall in his second colle­giate race. Junior John Coyle and senior Pat Kearns also fin­ished In the top seven last year. 
It will be a different story this year with 11th-ranked Providence, Marquette, Loyola, and Boston College all bringing strong teams to the meet this afternoon. 
"No one's going to dominate like we did last year," said Coach Joe Plane. "The competi­tion Is better than it was a year ago." 
Turning up the heat on the Irish will be Jim Westphal of Loyola, Chris Tegue of Providence, and Jeff Brault of Marquette. 
In the feature event for the Irish.. Coyle, McWilliams, Kearns, senior Kevin Keegan, junior Nick Hadkewich, and freshmen John Cowan, Nate Hurler, and J. H. Meloro will try to outrun the competition. 
In the meet against Georgetown, Coyle and McWilliams were two of the top 
Women looking forward to rematch with Providence 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
The 1991 edition of the Fighting Irish women's cross country team faces a stern test today at the National Catholic Meet, which will be ran here at Notre Dame at 3:00 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The National Catholic Meet has always been one of the premier cross-country meel<; in the country. The defending Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference champs will be led by seniors Amv Braising and Diana 
the Dome. 
Last year, GE hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent under 
three finishers. Freshmen Cowan, Ruder, and Meloro fin­ished in the middle of the pack in their first collegiate outing. 
Irish captain Kearns was forced to withdraw from the race in the middle of the event due to illness. Later, he was di­agnosed with pneumonia. After a speedy recovery, Kearns has worked out all week and is ready to go tomorrow. 
Representing the Irish in the junior varsity race will be se­niors Brian Peppard and Shawn Schneider, juniors Hugh Mundy and J.T. Burke, sophomores Tom Lillis, Jeff Matsumoto, Mike Rivera and Jim Trautmann. 

Bradley, and junior Lisa Gorski. 
Last year the Irish finished second at the meet and they hope to challenge Providence for the top spot this year. 
"Providence is a very compet­itive, nationally-ranked school," said Gorski. "They'll be there, and we want to be right with them. We want to place our top seven runners in the top 20." 
Last week, the Irish fell to a tough Georgetown team in their first dual meet, but they showed a considerable improvement over last year's meet. 
ASTRONG PARTNERSHIP 

AND 

'There's a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology 
leadership, strong financial perfonnance and a management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
"Last week was our best per­formance ever against Ge­orgetown," stated Gorski. "Georgetown's a ranked team, and we refused to be intimi­dated by them." 
This year the Irish welcomed 13 freshmen recruits into Notre Dame. The freshmen have had a fairly easy time fitting in with the sophomores and the five upperclassmen on the team. 
"They're accepting the team attitude very well," noted Gorski. "They're really competi­tive and excited, and that's good." 
Men's golf tuning up for MCC tourney 
Observer StaH Report 
The Notre Dame men's golf team experienced the highs and lows of tournament golf over the past two weeks. 
In the Purdue Invitational on September 12th and 13th, the Irish missed the championship by three shots to the host Boilermakers. The Irish shot a two-day total of 583, one shot behind second-place finisher Ball State. 
Chris Dayton, the hot golfer on the Notre Dame team, tied for co-medalist by shooting rounds of 69 and 73. In the playoff, though, Dayton was beaten by a Purdue golfer who birdied on the first hole of sud­den death. 
"He's just been playing out­standing college golf. He won 
SPDRlSSHORTS 

•PARIS (AP) -The Davis Cup rmal between France and the United States wHI be played in a Lyon arena starting Nov. 29, the French Tennis Federation announced Thursday. 
France's biggest indoor arena, Bercy, is in.Parls, but other bookings made it difficult to accommodate the three-day Davis Cup. 
A late bid by Paris was turned down, as was an application by Grenoble, site of the last Davis Cup final between France and the United States in 1982 when the U.S. won 4-1. 
Lyon's Palais des Sports Garland has a capacity of 9,000. Bercy can hold 15,000. 

•PORTLAND, Ore. -Danny Ainge says he deserves more money from the Portland_ Trail Blazers and he's considering holding out when the team opens camp next week. 
"Maybe they think I've been a nice guy my whole career and they've got a fish," Ainge said. "They're taking advantage of the situation instead of being fair." .. 
Ainge said he wants to be the seventh-highest-paid player on the team. But both he and Geoff Petrie, the Blazers' senior vice president for basketball operations, said negotiations aren't going well. 
"I can't honestly say, we've made a lot of pro~ess," Pe_trie said this week. "1 think we re making a fair offer. We ve offered him a contract that almost doubles his existing contract." 
Ainge has one year left on a six-year contract he signed while with the Boston Celtics that calls for him to receive $725,000 this season. 
Byder CUD gglr!nas arwounced 
•KIAWAH ISLAND, :c. -Paul Azinger and Chip Beck will oppose Spanish stars Seve Ballesteros and Jose Marla Olazabal in Friday morning's opening match of the Ryder Cup. 
Team captains Dave Stockton of the United States and Bernard Gallacher of Europe also announced today the other pairings for the opening matches in which each two-man team plays alternate shots on the same ball. 
The pairings are: Ray Floyd and Fred Couples vs. Bernhard Langer (Germany) and Mark James (England); Lanny Wadkins and Hale Irwin vs. David Gilford (England) and Colin Montgomerie (Scotland) and Payne Stewart and Mark Calcavecchia vs. Nick Faldo (England) and Ian Woosnam (Wales). 
BRAINS&BRAWN 
,-_ 

TRIVIA COUNTDOWN NIGHTS/DE 
&SHOWDOWN Late night trivia contest tor A panel of experts developed Adults Only, guaranteed to the ultimate fun trivia contest put a smile on your face and that pits your skill and keep k there. knowledge against other 

players here in our place and players all across the country. 
QBt 
For the first time in history, you can actually interact wrth live TV football games via satellite right here. Compete 

with other players here and 16599 Cleveland Rd. nationally by anticipating live 
Granger, IN

quarterback plays. 
219-272-3672 While you're in 
Hours: 

pick up your free Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-Midnight Fri. & Sat. 11 a.m.-1 a.m.University Club Card Sunday 11 a.m.-11 p.m. 
NIGHTLY SPECIALS . FREE APPETIZERS 
the campus tournament and just seems to get better every week," said Irish coach George Thomas. 
Last weekend, at the Cincinnati Invitational, the Irish's fate turned for the worse. They finished eighth out of the 16-team field. Last year's Big 10 Champion, Indiana took the overall team crown. 
"The course was extremely tough. 11 has a slope (course) rating of 140 and the highest you can get is 150," said Thomas. 
The Irish now must gear up for the MCC championship to be played at the Highlands Country Club in Indianapolis October 7­8. 
"Xavier beat us last year on a fluke, but I think we're going to win it this year," said Thomas. 
Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 
••  Invitational Sign-up: September 30--0ctober l  
World of opportunity.  Open Sign-up: October 14--15  
An equal opportunity employer  Campus Interviews: November 7-8  


page 26 The Observer Friday, September 27, 1991 
Volleyball looks to recover at Miami Undefeated women's soccer 
... 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleybalL team travels to Oxford, Ohio, this weekend for the Miami of Ohio Invitational. 
The Irish (6-2) meet DePaul (10-2) in their opening match Friday night before hooking up with Southern Illinois (6-7) and the host Redskins (9-3) on Saturday. 
Notre Dame has been rav­aged by illness this past week, and it was noticeable in its five­game loss to Illinois State Tuesday night. Irish coach Debbie Brown gave the team Wednesday ofT in the hope that an added day of rest will allow them to recover in time for this weekend's matches. 
"Everyone's been pretty run down lately," Brown said. "Sometimes, rest is the most important thing. They've worked pretty hard in the gym, and I just felt the extra time off would be beneficial." 
The Blue Demons, Notre Dame's Friday opponent, is on a six-match win streak, includ­ing a four-game victory over Eastern Illinois Wednesday night. DePaul is led by Susanne Fogarty, who leads the team in kills and digs, and is second in service aces. 
"She gets by far most of the sets on the team," Brown said. "The key for us against them probably will be how effectively we stop, or at least slow, her 
Mirer 
continued from page 28 
"ABC will be showing Florida 

state-MIChigan ana ,nree 1 ., gional matchups," said Notre Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler. "They wanted to protect those win­dows, and they will not allow anybody to televise a game against those games. It was strictly a business decision." 
The October 5 game between Notre Dame and Stanford, however, will only be televised on ESPN, with airtime sched­uled for 10 p.m. South Bend time. No plans have been an­nounced for a campus link to ESPN. 
Unfortunately for members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities with no access to cable television, the broadcast schedules could not feasibly be altered. 
"The problem is that you're dealing with so many different contracts, that going from one Saturday to the next is very complicated for the average fan," said Heisler. "There's a big difference between playing at home and playing on the road, because when you're at home, you have a lot more con­trol over the game." 
The world is waiting. 
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009 

down." "Miami is also a very good 
team hosts Wis-Green Bay 

Miami of Ohio, the defending team," Brown said. "They play Mid-American Conference really good defense; balls just By MIKE SCRUDATO champions, also boasts a star keep coming back over the net. Sports Writer player in Angel Miller, who par­We're going to have to be pre­ticipated in the U.S. Olympic pared to hang in some really The Notre Dame women's Festival this past year. long rallies, to be patient." soccer team (4-0-2) will look to 
remain undefeated when they take on the Wisconsin-Green Bay Phoenix in the third game of a five-game homestand on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. This is the first-ever meeting between the two teams. 
The young Wisconsin-Green Bay squad enters Sunday's game with a 1-4-1 record, but have given some strong oppo­nents a tough time this season. 
"They are a well-organized, physical team," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said of the Phoenix. "They are very similar to Dayton, a team that gave us a lot of trouble earlier in the year (The Lady Flyers and Irish played to a 0-0 tie). I expect this to be a difficult game for us as well." 
Another thing that worries Petrucelli is that the Phoenix play the ball long, which is something the Irish have not encountered much this season. 
The Wisconsin-Green Bay offensive attack is led by sophomore Tonya Greenwood, who scored 17 goals and had three assists in 1990. On de­fense, they are anchored by sophomore goalkeeper, Barb Singer. She posted a 1.61 goals 
against average last season as a The Observer/Sean Farnan freshman. Jessica Fiebelkorn (#11) and the rest of the Notre Dame volleyball team 
Singer and the rest of the 
comoete at the Miami of Ohio Invitational this weekend. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay defense 
will be severely tested by a 
Notre Dame offense that has 
scored 22 goals in its last four 
games, including 11 in its vic­
tory over Siena Heights on 
Tuesday. 

It is led by sophomore 
Stephanie Porter, who leads the 
team with six goals. However, 
the most dangerous aspect of 
the Irish attack is that anyone is 
capable of scoring. This was 
demonstrated on Tuesday, 
when eight different players 
scored. 

The Irish defense is equally as 
strong. It has shut out op­
ponents four times this season, 
and has only surrendered five 
goals in six games. 

After allowing two early goals against Siena Heights, it limited the Saints to only three shots over the last 75 minutes of the game-none of which severely tested Irish freshman keeper, Kim Gold, who was making her first start. Junior Michelle Lodyga, who has a 0.54 goals against average, should start in goal on Sunday for Notre Dame. 
"I am very pleased with where we are at right now," Petrucelli commented. "One of our goals is to get better every day, and we have done so. I do not feel we have peaked yet." 
If Petrucelli is correct, Notre Dame could soon crack the ISAA national top 20 for the first time. For the second ·straight week, the Irish re­ceived votes in the poll, but not 
enough to get a ranking. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Ihe Obsei:Ver
•Public skating Is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate 
The observer is currently
for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 
taking applications for
•Women's Ice Hockey: Anyone with or without hockey experience who can skate and is interested in playing should 
the
contact Molly at 283-2685. 

•Varsity rowers: All money including dues ($35) and Ohio ($45) are past due. Bring the money to practice or contact Heidi at 283-4286. 
PAID POSITION OF:
•Spaces are available for the Sunday evening aerobi.c class in the Rockne Memorial from 9-10 p.m. Sign-up today in the RecSports office in the J.A.C.C. The cost is $10 for the entire 
TYPESETTER
semester. 

•WVFI will braodcast the Notre Dame -Purdue game live from West Lafayette at 1:00 p.m. on Saturday. Tune into 640 AM as 
contact Mark Sloan @ 
there will be no television coverage. 

239-7471 
SINCE 1949 Great Brands, Great S&rVIca, Great Prlcas, Rantala 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A.. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur 11·7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 
220 W Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS! 
RACQUETBALL SINGLES IHMEN IHWOMEN GRAD/F AC :\1EN GRAD/FAC \VOMEN 
CO-REC INNERTUBE WATERPOLO 
CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE 
DEADLINE -OCTOBER 2
Provocative even then, huh? 
~ ~ 

+-----------------~~~~~~ssss~~~~~~~~~~ssss~~S'y 
L_----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· ­

Friday, September 27, 1991 
The Observer 
page 23 

JAY HOSLER
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPB.liiCER 
Spins John Monks 



Mobile Alabama 
MENU 

"Boy, that's good. But it's Interesting, Bob .... Do you think everybody's mother makes a different kind of potato bug salad?" 
CROSSWORD 
Notre Dame 
Mississippi Fried CatfiSh Pork Fried Rice 
Vegetable Calzone 
Turkey Steak Mozzarella Sandwich 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

2 p.m. "A Catholic Law School in America," Walter Pratt, Jr., Douglas Kniec, Lucy Payne and Thomas Shaffer, professors, University of Notre Dame; and Rodolpho Sandoval, University of Texas-San Antonio. Courtroom, Law School. 
• 

6.· 
ACROSS 
1 Said "I do" 4 Second chance 
rn court 10 Chrnese gelatrn 14 Rocks at the bar 15 Auto's "face" 16 Tempo 11 Start of a quip 20 It sprrngs eternal 21 Born. lo Fifr 22 Drrve forward 23 Convened 25 Wool producer 26 More of the qurp 33 Krtchen utensil 34 Abnormal 
breathrng sounds 
35 Mate of 25 Across 37 Exhort 38 Lincoln's logs? 39 Rani's garb 40 English heat measure Abbr. 41 Mysterious brblical word 42 Was skittish 43 More ol the quip 46 Cries of surprise 47 Far along rn years 48 "Topless towers" city 51 Blemish 53 Gumbo 

57 End of the quip 
61 Cleaving tool 
62 Narrated -agarn 
63 Okla. city 
64 Yearnings 
65 Saves Dad the nuptial costs 
66"lam-a crook"·. Nixon 
DOWN 
1 "When You­Upon a Star" 2 Repeat 3 Area in an ocean floor 
4 Past 5ASAP 6 Toll road 70ther 8 Entirety 
9 Island necklace 10 Missing links? 11 Pant 12 Long 13 Walk erratically 
18 Rent payer 19 New Zealanders. 
informally 24 Spring mo. 25 Garden spot 26 Fort-, Tex. 
21 Debate 

28 Russian mountains 

29 Morocco's 39 What Peter Pan capital lost 
30 Nobel Peace 41 Jerk 

Prize winner Root 42 This goes with poivre
31 Orient Express, 

e.g. 44 Reddens the 
32 Like a galley cheeks 33 Den denizen 
45 Esprit de corps 36 "-pleasure~. 
48 Uncertain: Slang and palaces . 
38 Company 49 Body of VIP 's knowledge 50 Something to pump 
51 Fictional sleuth 52 Soaking wet 54 Asian title of 
respect 55 Freshen the 
decor 56 Premed course 58 Three, in Torino 59--Aviv 60 Material 
measures: Abbr 


f\T [lJStUnE IHJilll[)f\IIJm 
RETURN OF lliE 
JEDI 
ft ft 111:::~11 P.m. ~llmiSSI[)n: $~ 


Sports
page 28 Friday, September 27, 1991 
Men's soccer falls to Indiana in overtime battle 4-1 
Oates' goal late in second half pulls Irish into tie 
By JASON KEtLY But he was helpless in the overtime Sports Writer session, as Indiana was able to blast three nearly unstoppable shots past him. 
Notre Dame's young men's soccer team "Our players never came back down to battled highly-touted Indiana into earth," Berticelli said of the overtime overtime last night before falling 4-1 to letdown. "They felt like they got the job the undefeated Hoosiers at South Bend's done when we tied it late." School Field. Junior Kevin Pendergast, who fired 
The Irish defense kept Indiana in check three of Notre Dame's seven shots on throughout regulation, allowing only one goal, echoed his coach's thoughts. goal midway through the first half, but 
II I'
,,~, ,.. ~J • !l!"'l
couldn't sustain the effort in the rmal 30 "We're proud that we came back, but , minutes. we were too satisfied with tying the game 
Todd Yeagley put a direct kick past in regulation," he noted. "We had a Irish goalie Bert Bader 20:33 into the mental letdown in overtime." game, but that was the only goal the Hoosiers could muster in regulation. While the play of Bader and the rest of 
the Irish defense has been fairly 
As the second half wound to a close, it consistent all season, the offense has had looked as though one goal would be all trouble converting their scoring op­Indiana would need until freshman Tim portunities and they couldn't get the Oates scored his second career goal on a monkey of their backs Thursday night. pass from junior Mario Tricoci, tying the game at 1-1. The young team, however, "We had chances to score goals and couldn't carry the momentum into win the game in regulation," Berticelli overtime. commented, "but that's all part of having 
a young team." 

"The difference was experience," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "They've got Although disappointed with the loss, some talented kids and they're an ex­Berticelli saw the game as a learning plosive team." experience for the young team. In the 
The explosion came in the first first six games of the season the 2-3-1 overtime session. Wane Lobring started Irish have faced some of college soccer's the shelling on an assist from Mike best teams. Saint Louis, Evansville and Anhauser at the 100:42 mark before Joel Indiana are all among the nation's elite Russel took a pass from Steve Keller four and the youthful Irish have proven that minutes later to seal the Hoosier victory. they can compete with the best and they 
will only improve with time. 
Joel Shanker rmished the scoring on a "I hate to lose but you have to look at beautiful assist from Keller in the second these games as an opportunity to bP.come overtime period. better," commented Berticelli. "I wish we 
Despite allowing four goals, Bader had all these teams in November instead played exceptionally well in crucial of September." situations, including a stop of a Hoosier penalty shot with less than a minute Four straight road games are on the remaining in regulation to preserve the team's slate, beginning with a Tuesday tie. night match against Midwestern 
Collegiate Conference rival Detroit. The 
"Bert deserves a lot of credit," Berticelli next Irish home game is scheduled for noted. "He made some big time saves and Sunday, October 13th when Butler visits some great one-on-one plays." Alumni Field. 
Mirer doubtful as ND travels to Purdue 
Culver also out as Irish face improved Boilermaker squad 
By DAVE DlETEMAN Holtz, however, still admitted
• Purdue preview/Football'91 
Sports Editor to focusing his concerns on two' couple of them were all Big 10 items: Hunter and the 
Even with a healthy team, Boilermaker defense. 
last year. Frank Kmet and Jeff Lou Holtz would be wary of Zgonina do a good job of stop­"This year, they have more of Purdue. ping the run. They put good a shade, or conventional, de­Unfortunately for Holtz and pressure on the passer, and fense," noted Holtz. "They exe­the Irish, senior tailback they hold their opponents to cute very, very well. They tackle Rodney Culver will miss the just about three yards per rush. very hard and they have veryshowdown with the Boil­"Offensively, Ernest Calloway good speed. The secondary also ermakers, and quarterback is a fine split end. Eric Hunter breaks on the ball well; they al­Rick Mirer has been listed as. at quarterback scares me. Last ready have six interceptionsquestionable. year, he threw for over 350 this year, and we only had nine 
"Rick Mirer pulled cartilage yards against us. They also all of last year." in his rib cage," stated Holtz. "It • • •
have a freshman 
has hampered his ability to 
tailback-CoreY. Rogers-who Fans traveling to West 
practice and has put his status Lafayette and planning to leave
was the player of the year in for this Saturday's game as Chicago. They also have an Saturday are advised to leave questionable. excellent offensive line. They extremely early in the morning,"Although everybody expects throw well, they mix it up and noted Notre Dame Associate him to be available to play are just a good, solid football Sports Information Director Jim 
Saturday, we can't guarantee 
team." Daves. 
that. He is recovering, and the "The last time Notre Dame
Holtz, furthermore, was un­recovery is expected to be willing to let Purdue's 42-18 traveled to Purdue, parking
enough by Saturday so that he conditions were so bad that
loss to California dim his ap­could play." praisal of.the Jim Colletta's they were still parking cars at Mirer, who practiced Monday, Boilermakers. halftime," said Daves, "so any­missed practice Tuesday and "I don't think that there is any one planning on leaving
Wednesday before practicing doubt that Purdue will be a Saturday should leave very,again yesterday. good football team," said Holtz. very early." Injuries aside, the "Certain teams will always be As has been announced, the Boilermakers provide Holtz good, although they have game will not be televised live. 
with the highlights that Irish periods of ups and downs in ABC Sports, which owns the Bignightmares are made of. their history. I think Purdue has 10 contract, is airing a national 
"Purdue is much improved on 
a good football team this year. double-header on Saturday, and defense and as a team in gen­California .beat them quite refused to televise the Notre 
eral," observed Holtz at his 
decisively, but don't forget that Dame-Purdue matchup in Tuesday afternoon press con­California started inside competition with its other Big
ference. "Of their front seven Purdue's 25-yard line six 10 broadcasts. defenders, six are seniors and a times." see MIRER I page 26 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Freshman Keith Carlson (shown here vs. Evansville) and the rest of the Notre Dame men's soccer team battled hard, but eventually fell to Indiana 4·1 at South Bend's School Field last night. 






