
•••1· 1992 
eObserver
S! ~OUICH. 11 NNIAt 



VOL. XXIV NO. 71 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1991 . . \ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kennedy Smith thanks supporters after rape charge acquittal 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) He also thanked the judge and dido 't answer the door at their for me was the only choice I Easter weekend. -William Kmuwdy Smith was said, "l have an enormous debt homes. could so that I could look at Smith grinned as the verdict acquitted Wednesday of rape in to the system and to God and I Supporters of the woman myself in the mirror, and more was read and embraced his a case that put America's most have a terrific faith in both of condemned the cheering and importantly my daughter as she lawyer, Roy Black. Across the famous family under a spotlight them." the verdict. grows up," said the woman, courtroom in the jury box, of scandal and scrutiny. The only member of the four­"This has hurt all rape vic­who is unmarried and has a 2-foreman Thomas Stearns Jr., 
The jury took little more than woman, two-man jury who tims, and you're going to have a year-old daughter. 62, began to weep. Another an hour to rejeet the allegations would discuss the case publicly lot of victims that won't come She said she had been inun­juror, Lea Haller, 37, had tears of a 30-year-old woman who Wednesday night, Lea Haller, forward because of what has dated with letters and calls streaming down her face. said Smith chased her, toppled noted that the dress the woman been done to this woman," from around the world, "from There was no other reaction; her on the lawn of the wore the night of the incident Robin Miller, who heads a countless women who have suf­the judge had warned specta­Kennedy's oceanfront estate wasn't torn or stained. Smith's group called Families Enraged fered the degradation of rape." tors they would face punish­and raped her under a full lawyers had argued that that Against Rape, said. Roth said: "We accept the ment. moon. showed Smith's accuser wasn't Shortly after the verdict was verdict. But not guilty does not 
raped. announced, the accuser's equate to innocence." Smith's mother and other 
Smith wished a Merry "The dress was an issue for lawyer, David Roth, read a Smith, 31, had taken the Kennedy family members were Christmas to cheering support­me, no evidence on the dress," statement from his client saying stand, adamantly denying the in the courtroom when the ver­ers outside the courthouse. Haller said. she had no regrets. woman's charges. He painted dict was read. Among those ab­
"I want to thank the jurors," Three jurors wouldn't com­"All that l have endured is her as a sexually aggressive sent was his uncle, Sen. Edward he said. "My life was in their ment. The other two had un­worth it if I've made it easier woman who initiated sex after Kennedy, whose name had been hands and I'm so grateful." listed telephone numbers and for one woman to make what they met at a_ night club during sullied by his link to the case. 
European Community works towards loose federation 
MAASTHlCIIT. Netherlands (API -With turmoil gripping the eastern half of their eonti­nPnt. European Community leaders have agreed to expand their pow1~rs to help achieve greater stability and prosperity. 
Leaders of the 12-nation trading bloc hammered out a compromise in the early hours of Wednesday setting up a loose 
federation  with  a  common  
foreign policy and  a  single  
currency by 1999.  

The accord, marking a turn­ing point in the community's 34-year history, was fashioned only after Britain was exempted from the singl!~ currency and rules goVf~rning workers' rights and other labor conditions. 
Even with the British reserva· tions, the accord marked a gn~at stride forward. 
"It's a strengthening of what is already the area of prosperity and stability in Europe," said Peter Ludlow. director of the Brussels-based Center for European Policy Studies. 
The leaders were spurred ini­tially to give their economic club more powers by fear of competition from Japan and the United States. 
The nations agreed in 1985 to create a single market late next year by tearing down barriers preventing the free flow of money, people, goods and ser­vices. 
But they felt they needed more, and set out to create an economic and monetary union with a European Central Bank and a sole currency. 
A community report last year said a single currency -in­stead of 11 different ones ­would increase productivity by 5 percent of the community's economic output, which was $6.4 trillion last year. 
It predicted the monetary union also would help lower in­flation and spur economic ac­tivity. 
And, it said, businesses in the community would save $13 bil­lion a year in foreign exchange costs incurred by changing one currency, like the German mark, for another one. 
To add political muscle to their economic strength, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President Francois Mitterrand revived the decades-old dream of a united Europe. They sought a transfer of national sovereignty to the community. 
Their ambitions were given impetus by upheavals in Eastern Europe. After throwing off Communist regimes, the new democracies turned to the community for political support and aid to reform their back­ward economies. They sought an anchor in a region of insta­bility. 
The new agreement does not meet some nations' dreams of a wholly united Europe. 
Kohl acknowledged the ac­cord's limits. "We would have gladly gone further but this is the first step," he said. 
Britain ·was the toughest na­tion to win over. 
And, in the end, the nation's Conservative prime minister, John Major, decided to keep his country outside key parts of the new union. 
"The real name of the game...was to see what ways could be found for providing the British with a bridge over which they could eventually come," Ludlow said. 

Major insisted on an "opt-out" clause that would allow the British parliament to decide whether and when to accept the single currency. 
He also demanded the others drop efforts to extend the community's control over workers' rights and other labor relations. The other 11 nations finally agreed to implement the regulations on their own. 
Despite the concessions, Ludlow said, "Nothing ... can be represented as having really weakened the substance of the treaty." 
After hard bargaining, the nations agreed to develop a common foreign and security policy. 
In a concession to Britain and Denmark, they said nearly all foreign policy decisions should be unanimous. Majority voting was, for the first time, granted for implementation of some de­cisions. Germany, Belgium and others had sought majority voting to speed up the decision­making process. 
On defense, they decided to strengthen the Western European Union, a security grouping of nine community nations, and eventually turn it into the defense arm of the new union. 
They said their decisions would be compatible with the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization but said the WEU could carry out defense actions independently. 
European Summit decisions 
Key decisions regarding European unification announced Wednesday by the 12 European Community leaders. They are to take effect on Jan. 1, 1993 after ratification by the national legislatures in all 12 EC states. 

MONETARY UNION 

tJt-European Monetary lnstiMe to be created on Jan t, 
1994 and start operating on Jan. 1, 1007 at the earliest. tJt-A single currency Issued any day after Jan. 1, 1999. .,. Britain allowed to stay out until an unspecified date. tJt-Denmark allowed to opt out pending a referendum on the 
issue, a constitutional requirement. 


POLITICAL UNION 

tJt-EC states to move toward a joint foreign and security policy with most decisions requiring unanimity. 
tJt-EC jurisdiction in areas induding industrial affairs, health, education, trade, environment, energy, cuhure, tourism, consumer and civil protection. Member states vote to implement decisions. 
tJt-Social affairs become an EC jurisdiction In all EC states, except Britain. 
tJt-Increased political cooperation under a new name­European Union. Permanent diplomatic network of senior political officials created In the EC capitals. 
.,. Reference to an EC "with a federal goal" dropped. 

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT 
"'The 518-member EC assembly gets a modest say in shaping some EC legislation. Its new powers fall short of what the assembly had sought, I.e. an equitable sharing of the right to make EC laws with the EC govemments. 

RICH-POOR GAP 

tJt-Spain got a formal commitment from its richer partners for more money for itself, Ireland, Greece and Portugal. The . EC will review its bookkeeping methods and take more account of the relative wealth of EC members. 


Sen. Coats addresses reforms in federal government 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Plans for the reform of federal health care and the workings of Congress were the topics of discussion as U.S. Senator Daniel Coats, R-Ind., addressed a group of students at Saint Mary's yesterday. 
Coats, who spoke of the need for reform in Congress, said that Americans are becoming disillusioned with government as a result of the performance of Congress. He said that trust in the government is essential to political public service. 
"If they (Americans) lose con­fidence in that institution of Congress or in its representa­tives," he said, "then they won't have confidence in the propos­als that we advocate for the American people that deal with some of the very real issues that the nation faces." 
He said that Congress needs to initiate soQie fundamental reforms to regain this lost trust, and that he has called for four Congressional reforms. These include a revision of the way in which Congress handles its pay and "perks," a change in the way that Congress has "exempted itself" from some federal job requirements and an abolishment of the Senate Ethics Committee. 

Coats reforms also include term limitation. He said that congressmen are not as con­cerned with public service, and that they are primarily con­cerned with politics. 
"I'm a strong believer in citi­zen legislators rather than ca­reer politicians," he said. "I have been a long advocate of limited terms." His reform would allow each congressman to serve only two terms. 
"We may lose the services of some long-time distinguished public servants," he said, "but we will gain far more than we lose." 
He said that he hopes this re­form will "attract people who want to make policy a priority rather than politics." 
In addition, Coats said that the current health care policy in the United States needs change. He said that his offices are flooded daily with complaints and concerns form Indiana citi­zens. 
The status quo frustrates the American people, he said, and he identified the problem of the rising cost of health care in re­lation to the increasing number of people who cannot afford basic health care. 
"The question of health care is probably one of the leading issues facing Congress in 1992," he said. "It's an enormous, complex task." 
He cited the conflict between 
see COATS/page 6 
page2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Phony parietals should be eliminated 
Parietals, in the eloquent words of a friend of mine, make 
sure  that "you  can't  
@#$%  women  after  
midnight  (on  
weeknights)."  

To be accurate, 

parietals are the hours  Paul Pearson  
when members of the  
opposite  sex  are  not  Asst. News  
allowed in a student's dorm. At Notre Dame,  Editor  
the hours are between  
12  a.m.  and 11  a.m.  Sundays through  

Thursdays and between 2 a.m. and 11 a.m. on weekends. 
Parietals are enforced by our fearless (and clueless) leaders with all the restraint and dignity of Torquemada's Spanish Inquisition. This may lead one to ask: Why do parietals exist at all? 
• 
Do parietals provide a "quiet time" during the evening for students to sleep and study without having to put up with noise? Anyone who believes that should try to sleep in a men's dorm when there's a late-night study­break-style wrestling match going on in the room next door. Calling that "quiet time" is similar to calling Father Burtchaell psychologically sound. 

• 
Are parietals a way to maintain privacy from the opposite sex in the evening and early morning, when we can wander through the halls in bathrobes without fear? Absolutely not, since I often stumble out of bed and toward the showers with only a towel around my waist, only to find a maid in the halls, able to see me in all my splendor and glory. 


Incidentally, I don't believe that it's a co­incidence that the University does not hire any attractive maids or housekeepers. 
• Does the University enforce parietals for our own safety and security? Give me a break! When was the last time a woman was apprehended trying to steal wallets in men's dorms at 4 a.m.? 
In the end, there is only one semi-valid reason for the university to have parietals: SEX. 
You see, the administration, in its infinitely twisted wisdom, believes that if women are banned from a men's hall after midnight, then they won't have sex while in that hall. 
This thought process assumes several things: 
• 
Young adults' hormone levels increase dramatically after midnight (but can be held in check on weekends until 2 a.m.), 

• 
The only reason a woman would ever want to visit me in my room is to have sex with me (Gee, that must explain why hundreds of women refused to go to my SYR with me last Saturday), and, my personal favorite: 

• 
Men and women, when placed in difficult situations, are incapable of making actual moral and ethical decisions (thanks for the trust, guys). 


The University is always trying to convince the world that is produces people who can make informed ethical decisions and function well in a morally upright society. If our administration believes this to be true, then parietals should be eliminated. 
If not, all the students should be fitted with chastity belts. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 
Today's Staff 
News Production Frank Rivera Kathy Fong Julie Barrett Cheryl Moser 
Business Graphics Colleen Gannon Brendan Regan Cheryl Moser Andy Runkle Systems 
Fritz Valsaint Sports Rolando "No One's Slower than Me" de Aguiar 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Prfiii6Uifl 
H L ~~m ~EZia 
HIGH LOW SHOIIVERS RAIN T-STORAIS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
FORECAST: 
Cloudy and breezy today with a 1 00 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 40s and lows in the upper 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  l  
Athens  39  32  
Atlanta  64  44  
Bertin  25  05  
Boston  46  36  
Calgary  39  12  
Chicago  49  30  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  68  58  
Denve<  48  25  
Honolulu  84  n  
Houston  68  58  
ndianapolis  49  35  
London  36  30  
Los Angeles  68  58  
Miami Beach  78  70  
New Orleans  68  58  
New York  50  39  
Paris  34  25  
Philadelphia  50  34  
Rome  46  27  
San Diego  67  60  
San Francisco  65  46  
Seattle  52  46  
South Bend  45  35  
Tokyo  64  43  
Washington, D.C.  52  39  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Ban remains on Marcos' burial 
•MANILA, Philippines-Former first lady Imelda Marcos asked the Supreme Court yesterday to allow the unconditional return of her husband's body from Hawaii for burial in the Philippines. Mrs. Marcos said in a petition filed with the high tribunal that the government ban on the return of body of the late President Ferdinand Marcos was a wrongful interfer­ence in the private rights of her family. Mrs. Marcos asked the Supreme Court to stop the government of President Corazon Aquino from setting conditions on when, where and how her husband shoUld be buried. Marcos died in September 1989 in Hawaii, where his family fled shortly after a February 1986 uprising ousted him from 20 years in power and catapulted Aquino to the presidency. Aquino has cited national se­curity as the reason for the ban. Critics say the ban is part of a personal vendetta because Aquino blames Marcos for the 1983 assassination of her husband, Benigno Aquino Jr. 

NATIONAL 
Ju[Y convicts socialite of murder 
•SAN DIEGO-A former socialite who said years of emotional abuse drove her to kill was convicted of second-degree murder for shooting her ex-husband and his new wife. Jurors deliberated four days before returning the verdicts Tuesday against Elisabeth Broderick. The prosecution sought a first-degree mur­der conviction. Broderick, 44, admitted killing Daniel Broderick III and his second wife, Linda Broderick, in their bed on Nov. 5, 1989, but had sought a manslaughter conviction. It was her second trial. The jury that heard Broderick's trial last year was divided. 

OF INTEREST 
•Right to Life meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater to discuss Washington, D.C. trip. Please bring $45 payment if you are interested in the January trip. We will also be discussing the recent cam­pus poll results. 
•WASHINGTON-Vice Pres Dan Quayle, under attack for u"''IJu•x ease government restrictions on industry, on Wednesday accused his critics of taking an attack mode because they don't get their way. Quayle said the Council on Competitiveness, a White House he heads, is on the people's side and is fighting for rationality and common sense in a town that's biased in favor of more and more regulation. The council is under investigation by three congressional committees that are probing its secret operations softening restrictive proposals affecting such matters as factory emissions, wetlands protection and federal drug approval. Quayle accused the Congress members of being part of an iron triangle with bureaucrats and interest groups to oppose efforts to cut the regulatory burden. His comments in a speech to the Food and Drug Law Institute Conference came a day after legal experts told a congressional hearing that Quayle and a top aide should have withdrawn from participation on the council when it dealt with matters related to their financial interests. 

INDIANA 

New use found f~r recycled waste 
•1992-93 Assistant Rectors applications for un­dergraduate residence halls are now available in the Office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Administration Building, through January 31, 1992. 
MARKET UPDATE 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1792: In Vienna, 22-year-old Ludwig van Beethoven received his first lesson in music composition from Franz Joseph Haydn. 

• 
In 1913: Authorities in Florence, Italy, announced that the "Mona Lisa," stolen from the Louvre Museum in Paris in 1911, had been recovered. 

• 
In 1937: Japanese aircraft sank the U.S. gunboat "Panay" on China's Yangtze River. (Japan apologized for the attack and paid $2.2 million in reparations. 

•In 
1963: Kenya gained its independence from Britain. 

• 
In 1975: Sara Jane Moore pleaded guilty to a charge of trying to kill President Ford in San Francisco. 


~~----------~~--~~--------~----------------------------------­
The Observer page 3 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 
Yeltsin: Slavic republics' commonwealth to be joined by two additional members 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

A taste of Christmas 
A Christmas party complete with a Christmas tree and cookies is held for the employees who work in NO's Administration Building. 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S & M.D.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


MOSCOW (AP) -Boris Yelfsin said Wednesday two more republics will join the commonwealth forged by the three Slavic republics, addil'lg momentum to efforts to replace the dissolving Soviet Union with a new political arrangement. 
Four other republics called a meeting to decide their stand on the commonwealth, founded over the weekend by Russia, Ukraine and Byelorussia. 
Yeltsin met with senior Soviet Defense Ministry officials and army commanders to win sup­port for the commonwealth, one day after Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev held talks with the same military leaders. 
Gorbachev and Yeltsin are battling over who will decide the fate of the former Soviet Union, and both the Russian and the Soviet legislatures con­vene Thursday for crucial ses­sions on the new common­wealth. Ukraine and Byelorussia have already rati­fied it. 
Igor Malashenko said on na­tional television that the Soviet leader must retain that power and the right to represent the republics in foreign relations ­even if he were to resign. "I think that Mikhail Gorbachev is ready to resign, probably he will do that, but I don't think his potential is exhausted," said Malashenko. 
"The U.S.S.R., though no longer existing, remains a nu­clear superpower, and for an interim period Russia, Byelorussia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan can form a military strategic union and entrust Mikhail Gorbachev with the authority to be at its head," he said. 
Those four republics hold the Soviet's 27,000 nuclear war­heads. 
Yeltsin told reporters that Armenia and Kirgizia would be the first non-Slavic republics to join the commonwealth. 
Armenia's decision was no surprise. Surrounded by hostile neighbors, Armenia has sought recently to improve relations with Russia. 
Despite Yeltsin's announce­ment, Kirgizia President Askar Akayev told his republic's law­makers it was up to them to decide to decide the issue of membership in the common­wealth, Tass reported. 
Kirgizia will join the other Central Asian republics of Tadzhikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan at a meeting Thursday to decide on joining the commonwealth. Kazakhstan also will attend. 
Malashenko said Gorbachev could help serve as a "bridge 
\WJhl\flriBIID~ 
Drunk or Unconscious She's on the LOOSE &LEGAL Ifseen, wish OOll(CIHI a Happy 21st! 
between the three Slavic re­publics and the Muslim re­publics" were he given a role in forming the commonwealth. 
Gorbachev's aides have been working hard to persuade the nation that he must stay in power and that the common­wealth is just a variation of his Union Treaty to hold the coun­try together. 
The commonwealth would eliminate all central structures except command over the armed forces. Gorbachev's proposal would preserve his presidency, and a coordinating role in economic policy, nuclear energy, transportation and military control. 
The military will play a key role in determining who will win. The refusal of senior offi­cers to obey orders of the August coup plotters played a crucial part in the collapse of the putsch. 
A Soviet Defense Ministry spokesman was quoted as telling Tass that Yeltsin favors unified control over the super­power's estimated 3. 7 million soldiers and nuclear arsenal. 
"There can be no question about any division of the armed forces. The world public need have no worry about it," Lt. Gen. Valery Manilov quoted Yeltsin as saying, according to the Tass report. 
Yeltsin later said his meeting with military leaders addressed "how to make the life of ser­vicemen better, how to protect them, and how in this very dif­ficult period to create a stable situation in the army." 

Correction: 
An article in The Observer Tuesday incorrectly referred to "the former Father William Lewers." Lewers is still a priest in the Holy Cross Congregation. The Observer regrets the error. 
Subscribe to: The Observer $25 for Spring Semester P.O. Box Q 
Welcome to New Orleans & The Sugar Bow 1 
Ir1 sh Hdqr. at O'F 1aherty's Ir1 sh Pub 514 Toulouse Str. -French Quarter 
L1ve lr1sh mus1c & s1ng1ng -harp & m1scellaneous Ir1 sh dr1 nks 
·----~---~ -~ -~----~------~--~­
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, December 12, 1991 

Germany decides to leave two-thirds of offices in Bonn 
BERLIN (AP) -The govern­ment decided Wednesday to leave two-thirds of its bureau­cracy in Bonn and move the rest east in the coming decade to give physical presence to Berlin's status as capital of united Germany. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Cabinet met in Bonn and agreed on the specifics of the transfer, following Parliament's decision last June to move the capital, at least in principle, to Berlin. 
Bonn was always considered a provisional capital of the fed­eral republic before German unification in October 1990. 
Opponents of the transfer had argued it could reflect badly on united Germany since Berlin had been the capital of Nazi Germany and militaristic Prussia. Perhaps to address that concern, it was agreed that defense would be among the ministries remaining in Bonn. 
A total of 10 of the 18 min­istries will transfer headquar­ters. That will leave about 13,900 of 21,200 ministry staff members in Bonn, since even ministries that move will keep part of their staffs in Bonn. 

Berlin Mayor Eberhard Diepgen called it "an important step in the right direction," but said he would have preferred that at least the nucleus of all departments be moved to Berlin. 
The government had pushed for the move to Berlin saying it was a sign of solidarity with eastern Germans. East Berlin had been capital of Communist East Germany. 
Bonn Mayor Hans Daniels saw the announcement Wednesday as "a positive signal but no grounds for joy." His city of 300,000 people on the Rhine River expects to lose tens of thousands of civil servants, diplomats and legislators with their staffs. 
Berlin, by far Germany's largest city with 3.4 million in­habitants, sees the seating of the bureaucracy as a means to raise economic activity and liv­ing standards in the formerly communist eastern half of the city. 
Interior Minister Rudolf Seiters gave no estimate of the cost of moving. 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Guatemalan imports 

Freshmen Anthony Abalos and Lee Almousa, left to right, peruse the variety of handmade clothes and jewelry on sale at the Guatemalan Imports shop set up in the Sarin Room of LaFortune until Saturday. 





Federal grand jury indictment against Keating expected 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-A fed­lawyers said. president of Keating's American real estate operations. broadcast of the William eral grand jury indictment was "There will be a variety of Continental Corp. holding -Andrew Ligget, ACC's chief Kennedy Smith rape trial and expected by Thursday against paperwork that will have to be company. financial officer. did not immediately return a •'" Charles Keating Jr. and four carried out and we'll have a -Keating's son, Charles Attorneys for Wurzelbacher telephone call. Lowell had said associates on criminal charges hearing on bail," said Keating's Keating III, a former officer and and Ugget confirmed that their previously, though, that he ex­in the $2.6 billion collapse of his attorney, Stephen Neal. director of ACC and many clients would surrender to a pected his client to be indicted. Lincoln Savings, their lawyers He said he will ask that subsidiaries. federal indictment Thursday. And other lawyers close to the said Wednesday. Keating be allowed to remain -Keating's son-in-law, Wischer's attorney, Abbe case, speaking on the condition 
The indictments, long ex­free without bail pending trial Robert Wurzelbacher, a senior David Lowell, had been appear­of anonymity, said she was pected, come after a grand jury because he is no flight risk or ACC vice president who headed ing as a commentator on CNN's among the defendants. investigated the case for 2 1/2 danger to society. years and five former Keating Keating has regularly ap­associates agreed in plea bar­peared in state court, where he gains to testify against him in remains free on $100,000 bond the nation's worst savings and pending appeal of his conviction loan failure. on charges that carry a 
The five defendants planned maximum sentence of 10 years to surrender to face the charges in prison. Thursday, eight days after the Many attorneys familiar with renegade Arizona land Keating's tangled legal affairs developer and financier was identified the other defendants convicted Dec. 4 in state court in the federal case as: of securities fraud, their -Judith Wischer, the former 
@
Need A Spring Break??f Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
The Ultimate SaiUng Experience C 
ICalll-800..359-9808 Today I "'-"' 

Leaving your car on campus during break ? PLEASE park in the D-2 parking lot_ This lot will be locked during the break_ Should you need to get your vehicle out of the lot during the break you will need to cor1tact N.D. Security_ Thanks _____ and have a safe 
IF You DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
EDUCATIONAL GROUP
• 

break_ IlAPPY HOI~IDA YS l;rom Notre Dame Security 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
~--------~----~--------------------------------------------------------~~­
The Observer

Thursday, December 12, 1991 page 5 



Corporate jet crash claims nine victims in Georgia 
HOME, Ga. (AP) -A corpo­rate jet believed to be carrying nxecutives on a Christmas tour of their grocery stores slammed into a mountain Wednesday, and authorities said at least nine people were killed. 
Elsewhere, a Grand Canyon sightseeing plane crashed into a mountain east of Las Vegas in bad weather, killing all five aboard, authorities said Wednesday after finding the wreckage. 
In northern Georgia, a twin­engine Beechcraft jet bound for Huntsville, Ala., went down on Lavendar Mountain on the Berry College campus about 15 miles northwest of Rome, a town of 30,000 people 80 miles north of Atlanta. 
It took off from Rome's Hichard B. Hussell Airport shortly after 9:30 a.m., and the flight plan listed nine people aboard, said Floyd County Sheriff Mike Thornton. 
Kathleen Bergen, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration in Atlanta, said the plane carried nine or 10 people. 
Both officials said there ap­peared to be no survivors. 
"The weather was apparently clear, but there was some fog in the area this morning," Thornton said. "We don't know if that was a contributing factor or not." 
The cause of the crash was under investigation. 
The plane was registered to BR Air Inc. of Birmingham, Ala., believed to be owned by the Birmingham-based Bruno's grocery store chain. Bruno's officials said they had no com­ment. 
Jerry Helms, a grocery store official in Decatur, Ala., said the plane carried Bruno's officials who were part of a Christmas goodwill tour of Bruno 's-owned stores in several states. 


after it took off, Bergen said. 
The U.S. Air Force Rescue Coordination Center at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois alerted the sheriff's department about 
11:15 a.m. that a plane might be missing. 
The wreckage was found about noon in a heavily wooded, inaccessible area after searchers spotted downed trees and smoke. Thornton couldn't say whether the plane burned. 
It was the second plane crash in six months at Berry, a small liberal arts college. In July, the wreckage of a small plane from The Foodmax store in Rome Florida that had been missing was part of the tour, said its for two weeks was found in a manager, Frank LeClair, but he different area of Lavender declined to elaborate or to Mountain. The bodies of two identify the executives taking British tourists were found in 
part. The company operates that crash. 
more than 240 stores in 
Alabama, Georgia, Florida, In Arizona, searchers located 
Tennessee, Mississippi and the wreckage of a Las Vegas 
South Carolina. Airlines plane, with a pilot and 
Air traffic controllers reported four passengers aboard, that no radar contact with the flight disappeared from radar at about 4 p.m. Tuesday in Mohave County, 40 miles east of Las Vegas. 
The crash occurred 4,800 feet up Mount Wilson, 100 feet be­low the summit of a ridge line, said Karen Whitney, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service. 
The plane was one of dozens of sightseeing craft that take hundreds of people daily on tours between Las Vegas and the Grand Canyon in Arizona, roughly 200 miles to the east. 
A 1986 collision over the canyon between a helicopter and a plane, both carrying sightseers, killed 25 people and helped lead to federal restric­tions on sightseeing flights over the canyon. 
A canyon sightseeing plane crashed into a hill in 1989 after an aborted landing, killing 10 people. And in May of this year, a sightseeing plane crashed in a national forest four miles from the canyon rim, killing seven. 
'Biggest Mafia war in 30 years' kills several bystanders 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Brooklyn's in g .. biggest Mafia war in 30 years And whom do lawmen hold has claimed two ultimately responsible for what septuagenarians and another the Daily News calls "The Big mobster who was stringing Whack Attack"? Themselves. Christmas lights outside his Although the FBI hasn't called house. A runaway getaway car a news conference to confess, hit three pedestrians, and inno­prosecutors and investigators cent blood was spilled in a agree the Colombo crime family bagel shop on a Sunday morn-feud is largely the product of 
~::XOOC~~~~~~)OO()OQ(:xJQ(:xJO:XlO:XQOC)OO(~ 
•: Happy 21st (DEC 17th) 
Looks like you just finished your 21 shots Mary Pat Solliavan Love. Clcnisa. tlancy. Missy. Becky, Maureen, Jen & Kathy 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT Our umque Test Your Bestr.. guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with 1 your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course...at no charge' 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited revjew in our TEST-N-TAPE• labs and lors of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has pr~pared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 

! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations caii800-KAP-TEST 

their own decade-long war on the city's five Mafia families, which has jailed many mob elders and left the field to hotheaded neophytes. 
Ronald Goldstock, director of the state Organized Crime Task Force, called the violence "a cost that society will have to bear for the destruction of the mob's organization." 
Mob experts said the incar­
ceration of successive Colombo bosses Carmine "Junior" Persico and Jerry "Jerry Lang" Langella effectively threw its leadership up for grabs. 


Although Persico appointed Victor "Little Vic" Orena acting boss, Orena apparently stopped following orders, authorities say. 
With the bosses in jail, no one on the street was powerful enough to settle disputes over turf and rackets peacefully. 
Howard Abadinsky, author of an organized crime textbook, put it this way: "The Mafia is composed of murderers who don't murder because they're afraid they'll be murdered if they do." When the boss who enforces the rules is removed or 
::~~~~~~:: 
fittt.t: BORtiS.: 

:simJei co...ne:out :· 
:oF the: ··rklri ·:
.......PQ ....g. 
:::::: IOf:::::: 
............... :&:have:a ··reef 
......... g ... . 
..... 2"1" tl .... . 
...... ·5 .... . 
............... 
~~ppy: ~~~~~Y: 
· · · · ·Loue· · · · · · 
. . . . . ,.., , ..... :sc,;. · ·& Bcircii 
~~lf[E~[E~T[ED ~~ [F~lM~? rD~~lECl~~G? t!\~l~~G? 
Here's your chance! Get an early jump & start Making your movies for February 28th 




MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL 
See you hall president or call Brian Shortal at x3593 or Dennis Feerick at x3543 
weakened, he added, bullets 
start to fly. 
In the past two months, five 
Colombo members or associates 
have been shot to death, and 
five others have been wounded. 
Three bystanders were hit 
when one of the wounded men 
lost control of his car. Last 
Sunday a teen-age clerk at a 
bagel shop owned by reputed 
Colombo members was shot to 
death, apparently in a case of 
mistaken identity. 
Mafiosi, traditionally, only kill 
each other. But "it's clear the 
people around today are less 
skilled at that," Goldstock said. 
The Colombos were the origi­
nal gang that couldn't shoot 
straight, and apparently they 
still can't. The war began this 
summer when Orena spotted 
four Persico loyalists lurking 
near his home and sneaked off 
into hiding, authorities say. In 
the months that followed, sev­
eral of the mobsters shot were 
not the primary targets, and the 
bagel shop clerk had no mob 
ties at all, police said. 
The bagel shop shooting was 
the last straw for Brooklyn 
District Attorney Charles Hynes, 
who complained, "They've 
turned this into a class B movie, 
for heaven's sake!" 
Declaring, "We're not going to allow this county to become a shooting gallery," he subpoe­naed 50 to 100 Colombo mem­bers and associates, even though they would have to be given broad immunity in return for any grand jury testimony. 
The strategy, explained a Hynes aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity, "is to get them to put their guns up until cooler heads can prevail." 
The war has occasioned sit­downs on both sides of the law. Local, state and federal law en­forcers gathered at a precinct house to plot strategy, and Persico loyalists did the same at a townhouse in the Carroll Gardens section. 
The Colombo feud has its origins at least as far back as 1986, when Persico and Langella received 100-year sen­tences for their membership on the Mafia "commission" that regulated relations among the five families. 
Orena, the reputed acting boss, apparently has refused to agree to step aside in favor of Persico's son Alphonse Jr. ­"Allie Boy" -who expects to get out of prison within 18 months, authorities say. Since several other Persico loyalists also are scheduled to go free soon, the war could get hotter. 
page6 The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1991 

Aerospace industry to set sales record in 1991 despite Defense Dept. cutbacks 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The aerospace industry will set a sales record in 1991 despite Defense Department cutbacks and a 100,000 reduction in em­ployees, a trade association said Wednesday. 
But tough times were pre­dicted for the future. 
The Aerospace Industry Association estimated at its annual year-end review lun­cheon that the industry's yearly defense business would decline 25 percent by the end of 1995. The projection was based on cutbacks announced by the Bush Administration. 
"There is heavy pressure for defense cuts far below the levels envisioned by the original administration plan," said Don Fuqua, president of the AlA. "The recession lingers on, rais­ing the possibility of further cancellations or deferrals of jetliner orders by some finan­cially stressed customers." 

The sales record is being achieved through a big gain in commercial sales and a moder­ate increase in sales of civil space systems, Fuqua said. But, he said, overall sales will be lower in the 1990s than they were in the last decade, "perhaps substantially lower." 
He said government must help in the industry's effort to remain competitive by: 
-Having "a coherent national policy on defense exports coupled with some kind of ex­port credit guarantee facility." 
-Limiting controls on tech­nology transfer "to an absolute minimum," using "a yardstick of realism and common sense." 
"Denial of an export sale does not as a rule deny the technology to the buyer," Fuqua said. "It just denies jobs and income to the U.S. producer. The customer can get equivalent technology else­where." 
He said a company or indus­try cannot compete effectively against the support given by foreign governments to their own industries. 
"The U.S. government must wake up," Fuqua said. "It must remove the broad variety of trade restrictions it imposes on American industries .... It must support those industries with a degree of help equivalent to that which foreign industries get from their governments." 
The sales increase for the in­dustry this year was 5 percent, or $6.2 billion over 1990. Sales of civil aircraft -mostly com­mercial jets -accounted to $140 billion of the total. At the same time, industry profit in­creased 3 percent to $4.6 bil­lion. 
The industry's exports were an all-time high of $43 billion, a trade surplus of $30 billion. 

Visual aid 
would result in Americans hav­would be undermined by a fed­
ing to pay much higher taxes erally funded program. 
Hami Hassan Nigim adjusts the overhead projector during his





Coats 

and that the quality of the "We're working in groups to 
lecture yesterday sponsored by the aerospace and mechanical
health care they have come to target what the problem is," 
engineering department. 
continued from page 1 

"expect, enjoy and demand" Coats said. 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 
making health care available to all citizens and paying its price, which continues to rise. 
"Right now, those that can afford are paying for those that can't afford," he said. "No one is really denied access to health care in this country, but it's simply cost-shifting." 
"They {people who can't af­ford adequate care) will show up at an emergency room and will receive treatment," he said, "and the cost of that treatment is covered by others within the system who have the ability to pay full cost..." 
However, he added that a na­tionally-funded program would not work, and offered no defi­nite solution to the conflict. 
"It's not very clear thinking to think that we can simply turn this over to the federal government," he said. "To turn this over to the federal govern­ment, to have it administer a health care system for 250 mil­lion people and make it simple is stretching the imagination." 
He said that such a change 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL occ 
1(8111) 348-1133
......,..,. 
TAKING THE RONKIN LSAT COURSE SHOULD BE A LAW. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 Students Per Class 40 Hours Of Live Instruction Live Tutorial National 800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
•
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 



Tired Of Waiting? 

Are you tired of waitirlg in long lines at the computer labs to type a paper? Tired of waitirlg for someone down the hall to finish typing their paper so you can work on yours? Finals are always atough time -why make it tougher waitirlg in line. 
The Notre Dame Computer Store has the perfect way to eliminate that wasted time. We have a number of Apple<~> Macintosh<~> Classic<~> II computers in stock-waiting for you. You can take one home the same day you purchase it. No waiting! 
The Macintosh Classic II is the most affordable Macintosh supported by the computer store. The Classic II extends the capabilities of the Macintosh Classic-so you can get all of the advantages associated with Macintosh computers in a higher performance, affordable package. 
You'll fmd that your applications run more than twice as fast on the Classic II as they do on the original Classic-yet it 

Apple Compute~ Inc. 
still takes just minutes to set up and use the Classic II. Not only can you run any of the thousands of Macintosh applications that are available for virtually any task, you can also work with several applications at the same time -and even continue working while the computer performs other tasks. All Classic II computers come with four megabytes of memory and a40 megabyte hard drive -so you have plenty of room to open and save your ftles. 
Stop by the computer store or give us a call. We'll be happy to show you how the Classic II is the perfect computer for typing papers, balancing your checkbook or thousands of other tasks. 
Stop waiting in line! Come in and purchase your own Macintosh Classic II. It will help you through this semester's fmals and throughout your entire academic career. 
~OTRE DA~tE CO~IPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computirlg Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. 

Business 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 page 7 
Gourmet coffee shop will open in LaFortune 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT was the need to utilize space Business Writer more efficiently in the Huddle at lunchtime. Presently, hot 
Fudge 'N' Things, the ice lunches and sandwiches are cream store in the basement of only available upstairs, creating LaFortune, closed last Friday, large crowds and long lines. and will be replaced by a "No one is downstairs during gourmet coffee shop and deli­lunchtime," Prentkowski said. catessen next semester. The food service plans to 
University Food Services move the deli in the Huddle made the decision to close the downstairs to the new shop. ice cream store. A store that Ice cream will still be available primarily sells sweets, candies in the shop, but its more popu­and caramel corn is "no longer lar items, such as cookies and 
a popular concept," according flavored popcorn, will be moved to Dave Prentkowski, director to the store upstairs. The of Notre Dame's food service. Huddle will then become a "It is not meeting the objective "strictly convenience store," of being desirable for the com­Walter said. 
munity," he said. The new shop will sell sand­
Employees of the Huddle and wiches, pastries and assorted informal student surveys also beverages, including coffee. helped make the decision to They will offer fresh-ground close Fudge 'N' Things. Sherri coffee, as well as cappuccino Walter, assistant manager of and espresso. the Huddle, said that busin~;Jss Prentkowski hopBs to create a at the ice cream store has def­coffeehouse environment at the initely decreased i~ the past shop. He wants it to be a place few years. for "studies, social con­
Both Walter and Prentkowski versations, and relaxation." 
agreed that it was. also possible .He hopes to line up musi­that business decreased at the cians to play there occasionally ice cream store due to the in­"to create a relaxed atmo­stant popularity of Yo-Cream at sphere." The new shop should 
the dining halls. open during the first half of Another factor in the decision next semester. 
Property rights battle freedom of speech in Janis Joplin lawsuit 
SEATTLE !API -Bela Lugosi. tions, including the American covered letters from Joplin to mances." dent that is difficult for even Groucho Marx. Elvis Presley. Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). her family. That claim set off alarms lawyers to unravel. The Beath~s. Bette Midler. J.D. into the case on the side of the Last month, U.S. District among guardians of the First In 1987. the U.S. Supreme Salinger. playwright. Judge John Coughenour set a Amendment, including two arts Court let stand a federal ap­
All figure in an intense legal Marjorie Heins, head of the tentative trial date of Dec. 7, organizations, the Washington peals court ruling that blocked tug-of-war over "Janis," a play ACLU's 8-month-old Arts Cen­1992. Coalition Against Censorship publication of a biography of about the late rock and blues sorship Project. said tfl.e case Coughenour is hearing argu­and the ACLU. J.D. Salinger based partly on belter Janis Joplin. could prove to be as significant ments Friday on a move by "It would be like saying that letters from the reclusive novel­
This week, a federal judge as the Supreme Court's land­Ross, Anderson and Allen for a the estate of Richard Nixon ist. will be asked to rule on key mark 1964 free speech ruling, judgment rejecting the publicity could someday control all artis­In a California state court aspects or a lawsuit filed by New York Times vs. Sullivan. rights claim, as well as on a tic portrayals of him," said ruling in 1979, the heirs of Bela Joplin's estate and allied busi­Joplin's sister, Laura Joplin of motion by the Joplin interests to Julya Hampton, state ACLU le­Lugosi were denied a share of nesses, and on counterclaims by Denver, and other heirs are dismiss the antitrust claims. gal program director. profits from "Count Dracula" the producers and author of the seeking unspecified damages The right of publicity, a legal Joplin, a native of Port Arthur, coffee cups and other goods. play. for allegetl unfair competition, doctrine developed in the Texas, rocketed to stardom with A later California law granted 
At the heart of the convoluted unjust enrichment and in­1950s, has become an increas­Big Brother and the Holding a right of publicity to the heirs case is a simple dispute. Joplin's fringement of copyright and ing source of restrictions on use Company in 1966. She died in of celebrities but exempted heirs say the playwright and publicity rights. Playwright Su­of a celebrity's attire, behavior 1970 of a heroin overdose, dramatic and literary works. producers had no right to use san Ross and producers Gaye and distinguishing quirks by alone in a Hollywood motel. Both sides in the Joplin case Joplin's character and image, Anderson and James Allen have other performers in recent Lack of clear guidelines has cite that law. especially in a concert scene. filed antitrust counterclaims years. fostered an "expanding privati­Courts have ruled against The producers and author say amounting to $3 million each. The lawsuit says the estate zation of speech," often limited imitators of Elvis Presley, the the heirs are violating their The estate has authorized a held exclusive rights to Joplin's to what is authorized by a Beatles and Groucho Marx. First Amendment rights to free Broadway musical to open next "performing style ... her voice, celebrity or a celebrity's heirs, Midler won a case against speech. fall using a book entitled "Love, delivery, mannerisms, appear­she wrote. Ford Motor Co. in 1988 over the 
The First Amendment issues Janis," written by the sister on ance and dress, and the actions Previous cases have estab­use of an actress imitating her have drawn other organiza-the basis of 25 recently redis-accompanying her perfor-lished a tangle of legal prece-style in car commercials1 
Study shows new tax laws hurt middle class 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The annually -with an average tax year were made in July. He middle class is worse ofT finan­liability for 1992 that is $16,400 noted that when his office up­cially now than it was in 1980 lower than it would have been dates the estimates soon to take and has seen its federal taxes under 1980 tax law. full account of the recession, rise slightly while levies on the CBO analyzes the economy the projections for middle class rich have dropped, congres­and the budget for lawmakers. earnings next year are likely to sional estimates released The figures were released by drop even further. Wednesday said. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, Bentsen has introduced legis­
The findings were released one of Congress' leading advo­lation cutting taxes for families with Congress and President cates of tax cuts to help spark a by $300 per child and expand­Bush embroiled in a pre-elec­recovery. ing the use of Individual Re­tion-year war over who is to Democrats have released a tirement Accounts. The mea­blame for the recession and mountain of statistics in recent sure, aimed at shovtng the how best to help its victims. months to support their accu­economy toward a recovery, 
The Congressional Budget Of­sations that Bush has misman­would be paid for by cutting de­fice (CBO) said it believes the aged the economy and done lit­fense spending. median income for families with tle to combat the recession. Other Democrats have pro­children will be $37,300 next Bentsen, chairman of the tax­posed middle-class tax cuts year, about $1,600 less than it writing Senate Finance Com­paid for by boosting levies on was in 1980. Both figures were mittee, scheduled a hearing on the rich. measured in 1992 dollars. the lifeless economy for Thurs­Bush has said he will unveil 
The figures also showed that day. U.S. Secretary of the Trea­his own anti-recession propos­as a result of tax law changes in sury Nicholas Brady, White als in his State of the Union the last 12 years, middle-in­House budget director Richard address next month. He has come families will owe $100 Darman and Chairman Michael said the centerpiece of his plan more in 1992 than they would Boskin of the White House's will be a cut in the capital gains have had 1980 tax law still Council of Economic Advisors tax rate, which is paid on prop­been in effect. were due to testify. erty sales. Brady, Darman and Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith said that cutting taxes to 
But the changes have left the In a letter to Bentsen, CBO Boskin have said Bush is also prod the economy is "foolish, even mildly insane." There is no certainty richest 1 percent of families -Director Robert Reischauer said considering some sort of tax that people will spend the money they get back from the government in earning more than $320,000 the income projections for next break for the middle class. reduced taxes, according to Galbraith. 
... ·--... ·----------·----~--------------------·--·. 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, December 12, 1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busln-Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

N•-Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor..................Joe Moody Ad Design Manager........ Alissa Murphy SJIC)IU Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Mansgsr........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor.................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .......... .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Free condoms are a 'stroke of genius' Faculty counseling 
Dear Editor: prote.ction against sexually dare Ms. Yant claim that this Congratulations to Monica transmitted diseases and re­information, contained in each 

valuable for students
Yant for displaying the same duce the number of teenage condom package, is there for 
type of ignorance which has al­pregnancies? It sounds like a only the "truly interested." Dear Editor: someone commented to me that 
lowed the rapid proliferation of damn good idea to me. Naivete and ignorance have In the December 5th edition of UCC would be "overrun" with 
AIDS in our society. The New Ms. Yant also questions clouded the issue of AIDS far The Observer, Professor clients if other sources of help 
York City public school system, whether or not it is even the too long. The disease infects Edward Manier was inter­were not employed. This is 
by choosing to offer condoms to "school's place to intervene." I indiscriminately. To facilitate viewed concerning the resigna­possible. However, the opposite 
students should be considered a reply: If not the school, then the acquisition of protection tion of Father Burtchaell. He might be also true. One of the 
success story from which the who? Obviously with such a against this disease is one way made a number of important reasons that the use of our 
University of Notre Dame, with large number of AIDS cases in­to fight it. To not give condoms observations and comments. office has grown so much is 
its antiquated Catholic values, fecting such a young popula­to teens having premarital sex, However, I feel that as Director that faculty and staff create an 
might learn a thing or two. tion, these people are not re­as Ms. Yant seems to want, is of the Counseling center I environment for students to talk 
The fact that 20 percent of all ceiving education through the one way to assure that the should make the following about their problems. They are 
AIDS cases reported in New media, the church (preaching disease not only survives, but point. Notre Dame is very for­also a source of referrals to 
York City fall in the 13-to-21 abstinence through a blind eye flourishes. Perhaps if my high tunate to have a tradition of ucc. 
year old age group indicated is not education), or the family. school had been daring enough faculty, staff and administrators 
that premarital sex in that age If the schools do not intervene, to offer condoms to already who are available to "counsel" I conceive of staff and faculty 
group is already a fact. Giving things will only proceed from sexually active teens, I might students. Counseling can and as "front line mental health 
students condoms does not, as the dismal condition they are in not have lost a close friend to does occur at many levels of workers" who are presented
Ms. Yant claims, send the mes­now, to one which is far worse. the HIV virus. expertise. with problems in the early 
sage that premarital sex is The New York City school No, Ms. Yant, your mythical It would be a great loss to our stages of development.
permissible. Premarital sex is system has not "failed the test," "Johnny" may not have learned students if they would conclude Fortunately the overwhelming
rather a pre-existing condition, they have instead risen to the to read or write (that is a sepa­that they should not. talk about number of faculty staff know 
as Ms. Yant points out herself occasion. Schools in New York rate issue for the educational their problems to the many when to continue counseling
when she writes that upwards will now take up the burden system to handle), but if Johnny people here who have "open and when to refer. Any system
of 60 percent of all teenagers that nobody else would, and begins to use condoms, he will doors." It would also be a loss without controls is open to 
admit to having sex. they are doing so without nec­have learned how to help pre­for faculty and staff. Talking to abuse. However, to abandon 
Offering condoms to these essarily promoting sex; on the vent the spread of AIDS, and students expands their the system would be, I believe, teens at school is a simple contrary, schools are warning keep himself alive. awareness of the psychological a major mistake. stroke of genius. Since it is a that abstinence is the only fool­Michael Bertin whereabouts of today's young Patrick Utz fact that teenagers are indeed proof guarantee against sexu­Off-campus people. Director, UCC 
having sex, why not offer them ally transmitted diseases. How Dec.11,1991 After reading the article Dec.9,1991 

ND should have consulted Pangborn residents 
Dear Editor: still be available to its residents Rumors started flying in Oc­elsewhere for housing. that seems as if they are placing 
I was quite disturbed by the next year, I am writing just as I tober and continued until I realize that, unfortunately, in people who haven't even en­recent announcement that would have had mine been cho­Thanksgiving, with the Univer­order to accommodate the tered the University above stu­Pangborn Hall will convert from sen. sity making no announcement change in female enrollment, dents who have resided here for male to female housing for the First of all, let me make it or statement to my knowledge. this had to happen. The Uni­years. 1992-93 academic year. As a clear that I am not against the Then all of the sudden, less versity, however, should have There have been numerous resident of Alumni Hall, one of increase in the female enroll­than two months after the ru­given the students at least a articles lately questioning the the halls rumored to be ment at Notre Dame --I think it mors started, Pangborn was year's notice if not more to "family" theme promoted by the converted, I had to confront the is a positive and necessary ad­selected based on "numbers" make alternative plans. Having University. This is another one. possibility of being evicted from justment that will benefit the and "figures." Absolutely no to wait until the last minute for my home of two and a half whole student body. I am, consideration was given to "figures" on next year's women Brian Dineen years. While I was relieved that however, against going about it Pangborn residents. All of a enrollment before deciding is Alumni Hall the best dorm on campus would the way the University did. sudden they were told to look the University's excuse. To me, Dec.9,1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Condoms, as used by 
teenagers, have about a 20 
percent failure rate-slightly 
higher than the failure rate in 
Russian roulette.' 
Dr. Thomas Sowell 

Brain itch? Scratch and submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
rowrseueve 
7Het'l?OffMt5 IA/fKJ'S OFFATTHt5 7H/91 KN!fE:G! 7HI9 Of3AI<?' 19A MAID'< 57VRY.t I \ 

U3T Me INTROOI..KJ3 YOU AU-.
H&Y, t5Vti<YeaJY, 

TH/9 15 MY 5T!fPFATH13R, RICI<
7H/9 19 MYFA~<& I 

Rei?Fei<IV, WHO tXZA910NAUY
He JU5TIU()Kt; UR 

pt)8U5H/59 IN THe P05T. THJrT5
OKAY/FH13JOIN9 

MYMOO, JOAN CAUa/9. 911& tf/O!<K5 ON THe H/U.. I 
US FOR CO(f}A ~ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU'I<&TH& O!HtRMEM­
B151?5 OF 7HI3 
(ji/Mj, I 
TAKe IT. 

-----------~----~----------------------------~ 

Viewpoint ',
Thursday, December 12,1991 page9 
LEIIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Right to Life was wrongly criticized 
Dear Editor: and are often the victims of our did not ask for them). The 
I am writing this letter in re­memories. group's motives, in this case, sponse to the recent article However, it would behoove are purely economical. (Dec. 10) The Observer pub­either the CCC or The Observer Nevertheless, let me take the lished concerning the Senate's to "get their facts straight" be­opportunity to remind those voting to help fund Right to Life fore making incorrect state­people who feel strongly that for the D. C. March. First of all ments which undermine the in­we are trying to impose our I would like to thank the Senate tegrity of any organization on morality on the campus or for voting to add funds to our campus. Already, the Right to make the Senate take a stand, treasury. Yet I was surprised to Life group must put up with we have nothing to gain in so see that the Club Coordination many false stereotypes (i.e. doing. This is not a popularity Council (CCC) criticized the radical Bible-thumping, close­contest or some group which group for not following minded, judgmental fanatics); will monetarily profit from the "normal funding procedure by we will thank you not to con­approval of others (except not appearing before the CCC tribute to the misconceptions. through donations). prior to going to the budget The statement Ms. Farmer We are simply fighting for a committee." made also belies the integrity of cause that we feel is a matter of 
the group, "They bring it [the life and death. Thus, in this 
The truth of the matter, how­issue of helping fund the D.C. light it seems to me that criti­ever, Is that the group followed trip] back year after year so cisms against procedure or the directions that the CCC gave [the Senate] has to make a false accusations as to the na­it. If there was a breakdown In political statement." As a ture of our intentions are a bit communication which led to the matter of fact, that is not the petty if not sophomoric. After Inappropriate following of the group's motivation for seeking all, we are talking about the procedure, It was through no funding. This is the first year lives of millions of children. fault of the Right to Life group. we have actually sought it (last That's all. I am not saying the blame year the student body Elsa Scheidler belongs anywhere; we are all president, Rob Pasin allocated Farley Hall students with hectic schedules funds of his own volition, we Dec. 10, 1991 
Dear Editor: In light of this incident, the Recently I received a copy of censorship stories in the an­The Observer's twenty-fifth an­niversary chronology, and your 
BCAF did not humiliate Peralez 
Dear Editor: sex with a man or being who read The Observer. The niversary issue. It reminded own intelligent commentary onI am writing this letter in re­homosexual. skit during Black Images was 
me of yet another Observer editorial independence, I am 
sponse to a letter to the editor Thirdly, the skit was based seen by at most 200 people. 
anecdote. A year or so ago, a puzzled. What can be the sig­regarding a skit involving Paul upon a character on "In Living Mr. Kimes fails to mention former "senior NO administra­nificance of the phrase, "ThePeralez. Evidently, Mr. Kimes Color," Homey the Clown. If that the letter written by Mr. 
tion official" told me of an inci­Independent Newspaper
did not attend the show because anyone has seen the show, he Peralez was also funded by there were several errors in his would know that the represen­students when the letter was dent which occurred in the serving Notre Dame and Saint letter which should be tation portrayed in the skit was printed in The Observer which early seventies. Mary's," which appears below 
corrected. identical to that of the show. we as students also pay for. In your banner? 
Firstly, the show in which the There was no violence, just the his letter, Paul Peralez publicly The Observer editor at the skit appeared was called Black parody of a character on a humiliated every African­time had prepared an issue of Why not sever ties with the Images and the show was television show. American on this campus. He the paper for distribution to University and become truly in­
sponsored by the Black Cultural As an African-American, I was not publicly humiliated by alumni at their annual summer dependent? That's what the Arts Festival, a campus took great offense to Peralez's the Black Cultural Arts Festival. 
encampment. Nothing unusual Daily Californian of the Univer­organization. Secondly, the skit most recent letter. The letter Rhonda Jackson about that, except that he had sity of California at Berkeley did mentioning Peralez in no way he wrote was read by thou­Howard Hall 
published an ad for a South in a similar circumstances
portrayed him as having oral sands of students and alumni Dec.10,1991 
Bend abortion clinic. The se­during the Free Speech Move­nior official got wind of the ad, ment of the Sixties. They are impounded the entire issue, and thriving. had it destroyed. He who pays the piper calls 
the tune. With your ad 
He informed the editor that, revenue, you could pay the while The Observer was edito­piper for many an evening. rially independent, the Univer­sity was its publisher. He didn't John Cowan see any contradiction in that Class of 1964 statement. Dec. 7,1991 
Conclusion that Jesus spoke Aramaic is misleading 
Dear Editor: meaning as these reports may apostles is a matter of scholarly village of Maaloula put a fur­The people of Maaloula and of The Observer recently pub­be, they are without foundation, debate. But whatever language ther twist on the story by alleg­several Christian villages In the lished a short article entitled and do not withstand critical used, there is no basis for ing that "Jesus spoke Hebrew, north of Lebanon transfer this "Language of Jesus may soon scrutiny. concluding that it was Syriac, but learned Syriac to evange­long "o" to their pronunciationdisappear from use" (11/26191). From at least the eighth cen­and to call it "Aramaic," is lize." These same Christians of Arabic, which makes it sound Fuller versions of the same tury BC Aramaic was a common anachronistic and misleading. trace their origins as a church even more like Syriac). Farther article were carried by the language throughout the Middle to ancient Syriac documents east, in the region of Tur 'Abdin Cleveland Plain Dealer East. As the official language of Syriac and the other splinter which they believe were written in Iraq, where the language Is 
(11/26191) and the Chicago Tri­the Persian Empire, it was dialects of Aramaic, remained by Jesus himselfl called "Turoyo" ("Mountainbune (11128191). According to spoken over a vast area of Asia the dominant languages from What is at work here is not Dialect") even closer affinities to the article, the village of including ancient Syria­the Mediterranean to the Per­fraud or malice but a proud Syriac can be detected, alongMaaloula In Syria is "one of the Palestine. However, with the sian Gulf until the rise of Islam Christian heritage which sees with "modern" influences from world's few remaining pockets collapse of the Persian Empire in the seventh century when itself as a dwindling presence in Kurdish, Turkish, and even of Aramaic speakers." in 331 BC, Aramaic began to Arabic was introduced into the the predominantly Moslem Armenian. 
The Superior of a local con­splinter into numerous local region. Syriac remained the of­Middle East, and which seeks to Syriac-speaking Christianity is vent explained to the reporter dialects, and by the beginning ficial liturgical language of sev­distinguish itself from the non­the bearer of a proud and that Aramaic, "the language of of the Christian era, two distinct eral churches in the Middle Christian, Arabic-speaking cul­important history. Long after Jesus," was being slowly ab­families of languages, generally East which, like the Church in ture in which it fmds itself. the Greek-speaking Church of sorbed by Arable, the official designated "Eastern" and Maaloula, belong to the little­the Byzantine Empire began to language of Syria. MWestern," can be distin­known Syriac-speaking branch But if the Christians of express its faith in hair-splittingArticles almost Identical to guished. of Eastern Christianity. Maaloula do not speak the lan­nuances of classical philosophythe one which appeared In The What then are we to make of guage of Christ, whatever it a,nd rhetoric, "the language of Observer typically begin to be One of these"Eastern" di­the claim that the language of was, what language do they the academy," Syriac-speakingcarried by the wire services in alects, Syriac, came to be asso­Jesus has survived in Maaloula speak? What is this modern, Christianity continued to opt for, the weeks just prior to Christ­ciated with Christians living in and a scattering of the other up-dated "language of Jesus" indeed, to insist on, the fluid mas or Easter, and appear as northeast Syria. But as a late Christian communities in Syria, which they use, and which and evocative images of fillers on the back pages of "Eastern" dialect of Aramaic, Lebanon, Iraq, and Iran? Are some scholars, who have every scripture as the only appro­newspapers around the country. Syrlac was quite distinct from the people who make such reason to know better, accept at priate level of diction for artic­
These articles claim that the MVVestern" dialects vvhich claims perpetrating a fraud on face value? ulation the faith of the Church. 
"Aramaic" or sometimes were current In Palestine dur­naive western reporters in It is essentially Arabic that This is the authentic heritage of "Syrlac" has survived in one or ing the time of Jesus and there­search of a story? has been heavily influenced by which Syriac-speaklng Chris­another of the villages (e.g. after. Most scholars would Not at all. These Christians Syriac and Aramaic cognates tianity can legitimately boast. 
Jubbaddin, Bah'a) scattered agree that the evidence seems are sincere, if misguided, in (words shared by Arabic, 
throughout the AntiLebanon to polot mainly to some their belief that Jesus and the Syriac, and Aramaic) and Syriac Joseph P. Amar 
Mountain range, and that this "Western" form of Aramaic as apostles spoke Syriac. In a pronunciation. (Syriac, like Asst. Professor of 
fact constitutes a kind of living the language that Jesus used. similar article carried by The Hebrew, developed a long "o" in Classical and Oriental Lan­
link between the Christians of Precisely which "Western" di­New York Times (7/17/89, p. 7), place of what had originally guages and Literatures 
the region and Jesus. As well alect was used be Jesus and the the parish priest of the same been long "a." Dec. 4,1991 
' 



------------. 
page 10 Thursday, December 12, 1991 
Accent 

The Observer/ Sean Farnan 

Lou Nanni talks with guest Debbie Bloom. Nanni personalizes the homeless shelter by trying to know as many of the guests as he can. 



ND alumnus helps homeless in South Bend 

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
The story of the good Samaritan is nothing new. 
A Jewish man is robbed, beaten, and left suffering in the road to die. A rabbi passing by sees the miserable man, but continues along his way. A Samaritan, however, also notices the victim, stops, nurses his wounds, and carries him to safety. 
What is the difference between the rabbi and the Samaritan, asks Lou Nanni, director of the Center for the Homeless and Notre Dame graduate. 
Referring to a sermon by Martin Luther King, he explains. "When the rabbi saw the man, he asked himself, 'What will happen to me if I help this man?'" Nanni said. 
"The good Samaritan," added Nanni "reversed the question. When he saw the man, he asked, 'What will happen to this man if I don't help? 
"We have a tendency to ask, 'If I am to help what is going to happen to me?' But we need to start asking, 'If I do not do something what will happen to other people?'" he said. 
As executive director of the Center for the Homeless in South Bend since July, Nanni, 29, has been able to ask the Samaritan's difficult question. 
Housing nearly 100 people a night, which includes 16 children and 20 women, Nanni and his staff work hard to ensure that their "guests" receive the utmost care and compassion. 
In fact, one of the Center's most important goals is "to see every guest that comes through the door, without exception, will feel welcome, will be treated hospitably, and will find respect in our little community," said Nanni. 

Since "each person has a different story," the Center tries to assist each guest in fulfilling his or her individual objective, he explained. 
The key to reaching such goals, according to Nanni, lies in the development of relationships. 
"If someone were to ask me, 'What does it take to help someone to be converted to a lifestyle in which they feel zeal and passion for justice?' I would say to get that person involved in a relationship with a marginal person," he said. 
When one invests time and effort into such a relationship, one can't help but be affected, Nanni explained. "All of a sudden his or her problems become your own. Dreams become transformed. It's inevitable." 
Awareness of these problems leads a person to one of three choices: to lie by convincing oneself that the problems do not exist, to live in shame by doing nothing, or to take a risk by attempting to make a change. 
The third option is one that prompts individuals to "do something which makes 'my' dreams become 'our' dreams," according to Nanni. 
At the Center, Nanni tries to get to know as many of the guests as he can, he said. 
"This is more for me than for them," he added. "I find this the most challenging-the most fulfilling. It is very important both on a personal and a private level." 
Nanni's official responsibilities as executive director are many. He works with the Center's Board on personal issues, oversees operations with the help of the operations di­rector, organizes fundraising, handles administrative duties and community relations, and sets up programming to provide assistance and treatment to the homeless. 
"If I say everything I do, it will sound like I have too big a job," he said laughing. 
While any full-time career in the social services can be overwhelming at times, Nanni said he has found positive ways to deal with this feeling. 
One thing that helps, he said, is to think of Mother Theresa and the way in which she responded to a reporter's question concerning feeling overwhelmed. 
According to Nanni, she said that she never sees all the dying people in Calcutta, she only sees the two eyes in front of her. 
It is important "to focus primarily on who you are with, what you are doing, and the rightness of your actions," said Nanni. "The process is always as important as the results." 
Nanni said that he also depends upon his faith to get him through hard times. It helps to understand that the way to God is "through weakness, brokenness, and failure," he said. 
"In a society that drives us to be more and more perfect, we have a tendency to translate this to Christianity-if we sin less God will love us as good little Christians," he explained. "We need to embrace emptiness, embrace brokenness in society." 
By accepting this "brokenness," Nanni said individuals learn more about their need for God and their need for others. 
In addition to turning to Mother Theresa's and his own faith, Nanni explained that in any job situation, the individual must keep a life outside of his or her work. 
"It is important to do other things," said Nanni. "I like to play basketball." He said that sometimes he finds peace in going somewhere where he is not known as someone who works with the homeless, but as "a point guard who can't hit an outside shot." 
This year, Nanni returned to South Bend once more to take his place at the Center for the Homeless. There, he and his staff have been able to encourage others to ask the Samaritian's question, "What will happen to these people if I do not help?" 
But the relationship between the homeless and Nanni is not one­sided. 
"I took the job at the homeless shelter not because they needed me," he said. "I felt like I needed the homeless...It is in giving that you receive, but sometimes you find you receive a lot more than you give." 
"I feel like a beginner," he added. "The homeless are teachers. Sometimes it is very painful, but it's where I want to be." 
I 

I 
Magic holds shooting sesSion with Big Apple media 
..------------------~ --~-------------------~~------------------------~~ 
The Observer page 11
Thursday, December 12, 1991 
NEW YORK (AP) -Magic Johnson, joking about tabloid stories that he was too ill to get out of bed, squelched the ru­mors Wednesday in the best way he can -with a smile and a talk with the media. 
Johnson shot baskets for 30 minutes on the Madison Square Garden floor -with former Los Angeles Lakers coach Pat Riley as his rebounder -then reassured reporters that his workouts are a daily occur­rence. 
Johnson, who retired from the !.akers on Nov. 7 after testing positive for IIIV, said that some reports about him are so bizarre that they're funny. 
He recalled former teammate Michael Cooper used to buy sensationalistic newspapers and read them on the team bus. 
''I'd catch myself thinking, 'Wow, an ape gave birth to a tiger,"' Johnson said. "Now I'm on the front pages of them every day." 
Several recent missed ap­pointments, he said, were sim­ple misunderstandings, but the tabloids have a field day when­ever anything happens. 
"My wife and I just laugh at those things, reports that she's sleeping in the basement in the maid's room, things like that. It's just funny," Johnson said. 
He said he originally planned to work out with Riley in pri­vate, but when the press learned of the meeting, he de­cided to open it to the media. 

"One of the lows of this whole situation are all of my friends calling me wondering if I'm sick, and my wife thinks I'm not telling her things," Johnson said. "I'm not into putting on a show to show people I'm healthy. People can see I'm healthy because I'm out in pub­lic all the time. 
''I'm going to remain a public person. I'm not going to change. I'm still going out." 
Johnson said he was running four miles daily, mostly on a treadmill, but he welcomed the 
chance to shoot a basketball with Riley. 
"He knows me and it means something to work out with him," Johnson said. "He was more than my coach, he's my friend. I think this was my best workout." 
Johnson said he has no inten­tion of missing the Olympics and expects them "to be more special than ever because it will be my first time back. I'll con­tinue to work out. Hopefully I won't have to play a lot of min­utes, but I'll be ready." 
He said he had to retire from the Lakers "because I want to live a long time." 
Johnson said he considered himself fortunate to have a 12­year NBA career. 
"If I was young, I'd be feeling withdrawal, but I only had a couple of years left anyway," he said. "What I miss most is the camaraderie with the fellas and the big games, playing against Larry Bird and here at the Garden. 
"When I go to games now, I enjoy being a spectator, a fan, a coach and a cheerleader." 
As a spokesman against the AIDS virus, Johnson said he had to have "on-the-job training. I learned to put the message out right, that the safest sex is no sex. If you have sex, then have safe sex." 
The Observer accepts classlfieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3p.m. All classlfleds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, lndudlng all spaces. 
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
ALTERATIONS AND 
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 
259-8684. 
WORD PROCESSING 
256-66~7 
CUSTOMIZED WORD 
PROCESSING 
ReportSiresumes/leHers. 
271-1618. 
GOIN' BACK TO CALl @ X-MAS? 
''I have a R. T. ticket to L. A. 
from S. B.... IT COULD BE 
YOURS''CHEAP''$355.00" 
(LEAVES FRI A.M.) 
CALL NOW! 

""""'""KATE X2668 
RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT 
Couple seeks babysiHer lor 6 mo. old Infant, 9 Hrslwk, min. Experiance with infants preferred, transportation required. Phone: 287-0260 
CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS to Ll, NYC, and NJ STILL HAS ROOM I $110. VCR. Call Anthony CorneHa at 17511 
~L_o_sT_I_F_o_u_N_o~l 
LOST: Black Christian Dior wallet, on Wednesday, 12111 , between O'Shag and Grace at around 1:OOpm. Contains all iDs and things of sentimental value. If found, please ca11'4085, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. Thank You­
""''"''HELP'''''''''' I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE,IN. CHRIS X4327. 
FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed eyeglasses was found Sunday night (12-1) on a walkway across from the JACC. If they're yours and ya want 'em -call X388511 
LOST: Between PE and PW on Saturday a finished roll of 24 exposures Kodak film In a black round container-if found please call x4434 and ask for Aimee or drop it off at 719 PE. 
Lost · One Navy blue Eddie Bauer backpack in bookstore on Friday. Contains computer disks that t desperately need. If you have them please call x-2817. REWARD IF RETURNED, NO QUESTIONED ASKED. 
Campus Ministry -Badin Hall 
LARGE VINE WREATH WITH 
MISSING CHRISTMAS TREE IN 
CENTER. PLEASE RETURNI 
LOST: Black and gold Citizen watch with inscription on back. Lost in Washington Hall some time Friday or Saturday night. If found, please call Paul at x1208. Thanks. 
LOST/reward: BLUE BOOKBAG 
at -COACH'S-early last week 
contains needed disk @ paper 
call Chops 234-1048 -NO Q'S 
WANTED 
Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987 
Camry auto to SeaHie, WA; will pay 
$100 plus gas; call291-4608. 
$40,000/yrl READ BOOKS and TV 
Scripts. Fill out simple 
"like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, 
relaxing at home, beach, vacations. 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 
Hour Recording 801-379-2925 
Copyright #IN11KEB. 
SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH 
NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. 
STUDENT FOR PART TIME 
OFFICE WORK, LOCAL OFFICE 
OF NAT'L COMPANY. SHOULD 
HAVE HIGH GPA, COMPUTER 
EXPERIENCE, & OUTGOING 
PERSONALITY. 
CALL 273-1866. 
1 FORRENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. 
Furnished. $200. /Mon. 
$150. Dept. Call277-8866 
Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. 
Near N.D. cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 dep. ref. 288-7207 
NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE 
FOR NEXT FALL. 
Two 4-BR furnished homes with security systems and washer/dryer. 259-7801 or 255-5852 for more details. 
Female Graduate Student: FREE room and board in exchange for minimal "nanny" 
(baby-siHing) services. Transportation necessary. Please call239-7308. 
Portage Ave. House: '92-'93 yr. 6 bedrms. , 2 baths, Lrg. living rm. & yard. Washer & dryer. Furnished. Extra safe area. 234-38311288·5653 
RENTAL-TURTLE CREEK 2BR-Furnished, Avail1/1 Call collect 708-446-9286 480 mo.+ ht. 

HOUSEMATE NEEDED: Seeking quiet nonsmoker to share 3-BR home. Ten minutes S. of ND in nice neighborhood. $250 + 1/3 utilities. Call232-3131. 
2 AM'S FOR RENT 
200 PER MONTH 
USE OF ALL UTILITIES 
ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 
4-6 Bed Rm. Furn. House, New Carpet+ Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Alarm syst., Across From Bus Stop. Best houses will be gone after X­Mas. 233-9947. 
LUXURIOUS CONDO IN 
MISHAWAKA, 1 BLOCK SOUTH 
OF RUNAWAY BAY. 2 BEDROOM, 
ATIACHED GARAGE WITH 
OPENER, WASHER & DRYER, 
STOVE, FRIDGE, DISHWASHER, 
SOME FURNITURE. CONDO 
ASSN CLEANS DRIVEWAY AND 
CARES FOR LAWN. AVAILABLE 
JAN. 1992.$450. PER MONTH 
FOR THIS VERY SAFE 
NEIGHBORHOOD. 256-2885 
JAMIE O'BRIEN 
FOR SALE 
MINOLTA X370 35mm Camera, 
50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash, and 
more. Like new. $225, OBO. 233· 
2344 after 5. 

CHEAP I FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES $200, 
86 VW$50 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC. 

South Bend to Philadelphia-
for sale-one way plane ticket for 
Dec. 22 at 7:00am. Call Ellen 
x2929. 

16 GENESIS GAMES 
x1746 

TICKETS 
ND ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLY PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415) 579-1432. 
Tk1 58-Boston, male, Dec. 19,$111. Call287-8656. 
AIR TICKETS: USAir SB to NEWARK Ad TRIP LEAVE 12119 RET 1/13 SALE OR TRADE 283-1231 
Spend New Year's in Florida! $2,400 Valuel 3 RT tix Indy to Miami Lv 7am 12125, Retrn 4pm 1/5 Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188 
Extra Sugar Bowl nx available and NEED to be sold! call Marko, x3587 HAPPY BIRTHDAY HEATHER 
We'll really do it up after break I 
Love, 
Shannon & Tara 
Don't worry roomie, I won't forget 
your B-Day over break I 
Sneak Sneak Sneak 
Only 21 more days till Tara Me. 
turns 21. 
SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI Includes round trip airfare, 7 nights hotel, parties, booze cruise, week of total sunshine ...Only $429.00 'Call Patrice at 284-4234 for details(leave message if not home and will get back ASAP). The trip is selling fast so call now! Don't miss out, you only live once, right? WARNING: Price increases after Jan. 20th, so hurry! 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 Due to reduced seating, tickets will be sold for the first time ever @ info desk in LaFortune for $1 . 
HURRY, HURRY. AVOID THE 
RUSH. PLACE YOUR 
CHRISTMAS GREETING 
PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST 
ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS 
FRIDAY, DEC. 13. 
HTC was last heard singing ... 
It's the end of organic as we know 
it.... 
I think I pooped In my pants 
Do You Need A Ride To RALEIGH 
NC Area >:4334 
GOING TO THE SUGAR BOWL? Then don't miss The Observer's special pull-out section this Friday, December 13. Not only will it feature important slats and info about the big game, but II will be the definative guide to what to do and where to go In New Orleans. Don't miss it. 
SAVE$ SUNSHINE CAB 299-0202 
'Lowest rate to airport, South Shore, Niles Amtrack. 
Make Early Reservation to Guarantee Trip. 
'$.50 off with this coupon. SUNSHINE CAB 299-0202 

ATIENTION SPRING BREAK VACATIONERSIII Trip to CANCUN, MEXICO for only $499 -8 days/7nightsl Meeting at 7:30 Thurday, Dec 12 in Flanner pit. Call Chris Boone at 1 023 for further details. 
A STOOGEFEST CHRISTMAS!! 5 hours of traditional & contemporary Christmas tunes. 9pm-2am tonight Only on WVFI 640AM 
NEED EXTRA CASH? HAVE AN IDLE, SECURE GARAGE AVAILABLE DURING XMAS BREAK? CALL 283-4519 TODAY! 
00 THE COPY SHOP 00 LaFortune Student Center Copies as low as 3¢ in volume I 
Need Ride to PiHsburgh for Christmas. Santa's sleigh is full so I need help. Call Eric X 1 026 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Green Fish the ThirdII Have a great Xmas Haras,Cavemillus,Carrie,Nic,Jenny, Mrs.MaHingly, & Va-I'll miss you I Love, Alice 
Desparate women seek to sell extra Sugar Bowl Tixll! call Sandi or Laura, x2732 
TO THE BURLY OF 11C AND CRAIG AND NOAH: MERRY CHRISTMAS AND GOOD LUCK IN FINALS! FROM THE ROMAN BABES ABROAD-SUSANNE, MARIT, 
MARIE, LIAM 

A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
SURVIVORS OF RAPE will be offered free of charge next semester by Sex Offense Services (SOS). Co-facilitated by trained advocates, it will be open to all students from ND/SMC. Held on campus, the group will be completely confidential. For more info, please call the SOS office at 234-0061 X231. 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 

Our LAST meeting of the semester is in THEODORE'S on Thursday from 8:00-9:30. Come, even if you haven't been in a while! Next semester, we'll start over with new dances, so bring some friends to join In the lunl 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
SUCUBUS gargle with Rick. bring out the lust list and make your selection, we'll try to provide your birthday wish. paid for by SoA. 
Here come Santa Claus, 
here come Santa Claus, 
Watch for the big red guy and ask 
him for your present. 
To Jessica, Chuck, Roger, Julie, 
MaH, Mike, Colleen, Amy, Meg, 
Loan, and Robert I wish rest and 
happiness over the holidays. God 
Bless. 
-J.T. Rock 

MERRY CHRISTMAS LISA KELLY -SANTA­
JEANNETIE 
MERRY CHRISTMAS II 

HOPE YOU FEEL BETIER SOON AND HAVE AN AWESOME BREAKII 
LOVE YOUR SECRET 
SANTA 
Rock & Roll, sex, alchohol, drugs fun 
PALACE LAUNDRY 
tonight at Bridget's 

P. L. P. L. P.L. P. L. P. L. P.L. P. L. P. L. P. L. 
2 DESPERATE Texans need X­
mas ride to DFW or Houston. Will 
accept OK City or Baton Rouge. 
Will pay gas. 
Lori X4526 Maria X2600. 
Happy Birthday, Pauli 
Love, C.C. and Em 
Happy Birthday, Bean I Love, EmandC.C. 
Big Red comes through with the 
Rock I Congratulations and best wishes to Muna and Chris I 
Next time you want to putin multiple classified ads, please come to the office before 3 pm like everyone else does and type them Into the computer yourselflllllll 
Cheryl Moser is one offhe most awesome production goddesses to ever grace the offices of this newspaper. 'Nuff said. 
Wow, Is Rich (Stevelll) Szabo nicell 
MYTH: WOMEN COMMONLY CRY "RAPE" AND FALSELY ACCUSE MEN.
c::::::::::::. 
REAUTY: RAPE HAS THE SAME FALSE ACCUSATION RATE (2%) AS OTHER VIOLENT CRIMES. 



NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Boston 13 6 .684 8-2 New York 13 6 .684 9-1 Miami 9 11 .450 41/2 2-8 Philadelphia 9 11 .450 41/2 2-8 Ortando 6 12 .333 61/2 1-9 Washington 6 14 .300 7112 2-8 New Jersey 5 14 .263 8 3-7 
Central Division Chicago 16 3 .842 9-1 Cleveland 11 7 .611 4 112 7-3 Atlanta 11 9 .550 51/2 5-5 Detroit 9 13 .409 8 112 4-6 Milwaukee 9 12 .429 8 4-6 Indiana 9 13 .409 8 112 5-5 Charlotte 6 16 .273 11 112 3-7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Utah 14 8 .636 7-3 San Antonio 11 8 .579 1 112 4-6 Houston 10 8 .556 2 4-6 Denver 9 10 .474 3 112 5-5 Dallas 9 12 .429 41/2 5-5 Minnesota 3 14 .176 81/2 2-8 
Pac~ic Division LA Lakers 14 7 .667 6-4 Golden Stale 12 6 .667 112 6-4 Portland 13 8 .619 1 6-3 Phoenix 13 9 .591 11/2 9-1 Seattle 11 9 .550 21/2 4-6 LA Clippers 12 10 .545 2 112 7-3 Sacramento 6 13 .316 7 3-7 
Wednesday's Games New York 96, Seattle 87 Denver 98, Philadelphia 88 Miami 105, Cleveland 1 03 Dallas 1 06, Charlotte 1 03 San Antonio 98, Minnesota 85 LA Clippers 101. Detroit 96 Utah 101, LA Lakers 95 
Thursday's Games Denver at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Washington, 7:30p.m. Atlanta at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Houston at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Orlando at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Friday's Games Seattle at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Miami at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Phoenix at San Antonio, 8 p.m. New York at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Utah at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Detroit at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALl 
American La.gue 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Assigned Domingo Mota, second baseman, to Baseball City of the Florida State League. 
MINNESOTA TWIN8-Ex1ended the contract of Tom Kelly, manager, for two years. Named Joel Lapel, Brad Wletzel and Scott Groot scouts. 
TORONTO BLUE JAY8-Signed Kent Anderson, Infielder; Julian Van, first baseman; and Butch Davis, outfielder, to minor league contracts. Named Joe Siers rridwesl scouting supervisor. 
NMI-'I..Hgue 
CINCINNATI REDs-Traded John Wetteland and BUI Risley, pkchers, to the Montreal Expos for Dave Martinez, outfielder; Scott Ruskin, pttcher; and WUIIe Greene, infielder. 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Reached a one-year player development agreement wtth Erie of the N­York-Penn League for 1992. Named Fredl Gonzalez manager of Erie. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Traded Chris Gwynn, outfielder, and Domingo Mota, second baseman, to the Kansas City Royals for Todd Benzinger. first baseman-outfielder. 
NEW YORK MET8-Traded Kevin McReynolds, outfielder; Greg Jefferies, third baseman; and Ketth Miler, second baseman; to the Kansas City Royals for Brat Saberhagen, pitcher; and Bill Pecota, second baseman. Acquired Steve Rosenberg, pitcher, from the San Diego Padres for Jeff Gardner, Infielder. • 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Traded Bruce Ruffin. pitcher, to the Milwaukee Brewers for Dale Sveum. Infielder. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Traded Kevin Mitchell, outfielder. and Mike Remlinger, pitcher, to the Seattle Mariners lor Bill Swift, Mike Jackson and Dave Burba, pitchers. Designated Rafael Ncwoa. pitcher, lor assignment. 
BASKETBALL Nlllionlll ~Aaeocldon 
NBA-Fined Richie Adubato, Dallas Mavericks coach. $3,000, for making disparaging remarks itlout the offldating following a game Dec. 7. 
SEATTLE SUPERSONICS-Placed Quinlin Dailey, guard, on waivers. 
page 12 
SCOREBOARD 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Washington 21 9 0 42 137 95 NY Rangers 17 12 1 35 101 94 Pittsburgh 15 10 4 34 125 106 New Jersey 15 11 3 33 113 88 NY Islanders 10 14 4 24 105 112 Philadelphia 9 15 3 21 79 98 
Adams Division Montreal 20 11 2 42 106 69 Boston 11 13 5 27 98 105 Hartford 11 12 4 26 87 96 Buffalo 9 15 4 22 85 101 Quebec 9 17 3 21 98 118 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Detroit 17 9 4 38 120 99 St. Louis 13 10 7 33 106 104 Chicago 13 13 5 31 109 100 Minnesota 11 14 3 25 91 98 Toronto 9 18 4 22 80 106 
Smythe Division Vancouver 17 11 3 37 108 92 Winnipeg 15 8 7 37 93 87 Edmonton 12 13 5 29 102 104 Calgary 12 14 4 28 108 105 Los Angeles 11 12 6 28 103 115 San Jose 6 22 3 15 76 138 
Tuesday's Games Detroit 5, Chicago 3 St. Louis 7, N.Y. Islanders 7, tie Pittsburgh 5, N.Y. Rangers 3 Quebec 5, Boston 2 Washington 4, Calgary 1 Minnesota 4, New Jersey 3 Winnipeg 3, San Jose 3, tie Edmonton 7, Vancouver 4 
Wednesday's Games St. Louis 6, Buffalo 3 N.Y. Islanders 5, Toronto 4 
NHL BOX SCORES 
St.Louia 0 4 2 6 
Buffalo 0 2 1 3 
First Period-None. 
Second Period-t, St. Louis, Hull 28 (Mongeau, Shanahan), :51 (pp). 2, Buffalo, Hawerchuk 8 (Mogllny), 5:31 (pp). 3, St. Louis, Shanahan 12 (Mongeau, Norwood), 9:22 (pp). 4, St. Louis, Shanahan 13 (Brown, Oates), 10:22 (pp). 5, Buffalo, Hawerchuk 9 (Ruuttu, Badger), 12:25 (pp). 6, St. Louis, Cales 5 (Hull, Lowry), 19:31. 
Third Perlod-7, Buffalo, Audette 15 (Hawerchuk), 1:08. 8, St. Louis, P.Cavalllnl 5, 8:13. 9, St. Louis, Brown 6 (Emerson), 18:44 (en). 
Shots on goal-St. Louis 10·20-6-36. Buffalo 8­14-16-38. Goalies-St. Louis, Hebert. Bulfalo, Draper, A-12,786. 
NY lalandera 3 0 2 5 
Toronto 2 2 0 4 
First Perlod-1, N-York, Ferraro 13 (Flatley, Hogue), 1:26. 2, Toronto, Berube 5 (Follgno, Godynyuk), 4:03. 3, Toronto, Marois 5, 5:24. 4, N-York. McLiwain 5 (Pilon), 8:08. 5, N-York, King 16 (Creighton, Vukota), 8:43. 
Second Perlod-6, Toronto, Gill 2 (Cimetta, 
Bullard), 1:32 (pp). 7, Toronto, Bullard 8 (Cimelta. 
Shannon), 10:03 (pp). 
Third Period-&, N-York, Kurvers 5 (Ferraro, 
Flatley), 12:45. 9, N-York, Ferraro 14 (Hogue, 
Flatley), 18:10. 
Shots on goai-N-York B-3-6-19. Toronto 15­
18-14--47. 
Goalies-New York, Weeks. Toronto, Fuhr. 
A-15,114. 
FRIEND 
DON'T 
LE. I 
FRIENDS 
DRIVE 
DRUNK 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 

~BULLS-PISTON RAFFLE­
4 TICKETS-$1.00 A CHANCE OR 7 CHANCES FOR $5.00 BUY AT INFO. DESK 
: DEADLINE:FRI. 12/13
i 

i i sponsored by the class of 1993
i 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~9!~1!1.9~ }!1!9· ca~tthe LaFortune Ig.!ornl.,!l!iOf! ~sk 
Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Won  3  9-2  4-4  9-5  
Won  3  8-0  5-6  11-4  
Won  1  7-4  2-7  7-7  
Lost  1  6-5  3-6  7-9  
Lost  4  4-7  2-5  6-6  
Lost  5  2-6  4-8  4-8  
Lost  2  2-7  3-7  3-9  
Won  1  8-1  8-2  8-2  
Lost  1  8-0  3-7  9-3  
Won  1  6-4  5-5  6-6  
Lost  2  5-6  4-7  7-10  
Lost  1  7-3  2-9  6-8  
Won  7-5  2-9  5-5  
Lost  5-5  1-11  5-11  
Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Won  5  7-1  7-7  8-4  
Won  1  8-1  3-7  7-6  
Won  1  7-3  3-5  7-5  
Won  1  7-4  2-6  6-8  
Won  2  6-6  3-6  6-6  
Lost  5  2-7  1-7  3-13  
Lost  7-2  7-5  8-4  
Lost  1  6-3  6-3  8-4  
Lost  1  8-4  5-4  5-6  
Won  8  7-3  6-6  8-6  
Lost  2  6-3  5-6  6-5  
Won  6  9-4  3-6  8-8  
Lost  2  5-5  1-8  3-8  

Saturday's Games Boston at New York, 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Seattle at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Miami, 7:30p.m. Dallas at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Denver at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Houston, 8:30p.m. Minnesota at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. Detroit at Utah, 9:30p.m. Sacramento at Portland, 10 p.m. Orlando at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Sunday's Games Orlando at LA Clippers, 9 p.m. Sacramento at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
Continental Buketball Aaaoclatlon COLUMBUS HORIZON-Named Brian Dullk interim public rela!ions director. 
ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Dan Godlread, center. Released Robert Youngblood, forward. 
TRI-CITY CHINOOK-Acquired Michael Anderson, guard, from the Rapid City Thrillers for the rights to Morton Wiley, guard, and future considerations. Waived Eric Dunn, forward. 
World Bufl.etball League WBL-Awarded a franchise to Jacksonvme, Fla for the t992 season. 
FOOTBALL 
Natlonel Footbell League 

DETROIT LION8-Signed David Little, oenter. 
GREEN BAY PACKER8-Waived Jerry Evans, 
tight end. Signed Randy Austin, tight end, and Doug Lloyd, running back. to the practioe squad. 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Placed Jeff Hostetler, quarterback, on Injured reserve. Signed Mike Perez, quarterback. Assigned Anthony Moss, Nnebacker, to the practloe squad. 
World LHgue of American FootbMI NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTs-Named Gary Croke director of media relations. 
HOCKEY Nalfonel Hockey I..Hgue NEW YORK RANGER8-Signed Mark Messier, oenter, to a multiyear contract. 
SOCCER 
MaJor Soccer LHgue 

CLEVELAND CRUNC~Iaced Bernia James, 
defender, on the suspended list. Signed Tom 
Tanner, rridfielder. 
TENNS 
United SlatM Tennla Aaaodatlon 

USTA-Named Tom Gorman and Marty Riassen 
men's and women's tennis coaches for the t992 
Olympic Games. 

Home  Away  Dlv  
9-3-0  12-6-0  10-3-0  
10-4·1  7-8-0  6-5-0  
7-4-4  8-6-0  8-6-2  
10-3-1  5-8-2  4-6-2  
5-7-2  5-7-2  5-4-1  
5-7-2  4-8-1  1-10-3  
12-5-0  8-6-2  8-5-2  
7-4-2  4-9-3  5-4-2  
5-5-4  6-7-0  4-5·3  
6-6-2  3-9-2  4-6-3  
9-7-1  0-10-2  5-6-2  
Home  Away  Dlv  
13-4-0  4-5-4  7-5-2  
10-3-2  3-7-5  5-6-3  
10-4-2  3-9-3  3-5-4  
8-6-2  3-8-1  7-5-3  
6-8-2  3-10-2  5-6-2  
11-4-2  6-7-1  9-6-2  
10-5-3  5-3-4  4-3-5  
7-3-3  5-10-2  6-5-4  
5-4-2  7-10-2  5-6-2  
5-4-4  6-8-2  5-6-3  
5-8-1  1-14-2  5-8-2  

Thursday's Games Montreal at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Quebec at Detroit. 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Winnipeg at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Edmonton at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. Minnesota at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Friday's Games Hartford at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington. 7:35 p.m. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL STANDINGS 
Big Eaat Conference 

Atlantic Coeat Conference ConNrance AfiGamee Conference AIGamea WL Pct.W L Pet. w L Pet. w L Pel Boston Coli. 0 0 .000 6 0 1.000 
N.Carollna 0 0 .000 6 Duke 0 0 .000 4 Clemson 0 0 .000 3 Georgia Tech 0 0 .000 5 z-Maryland 0 0 .000 5 N.C. State 0 0 .000 4 Wake Forest 0 0 .000 4 Florida St. 0 0 .000 3 Virginia 0 0 .000 3 
z-lnellglbla for post-season play 
Big Ten Conterence 
Conference AUGamea Oklahoma St. 0 0 .000 8 0 1.000 w L Pel w L Pet Missouri 0 0 .000 5 0 1.000 Iowa 0 0 .000 6 0 1.000 Oklahoma 0 0 .000 5 0 1.000 
Michigan St. 0 0 .000 05 1.000 Kansas 0 0 .000 4 0 1.000 
Ohio St. 0 0 .000 4 0 1.000 Iowa St. 0 0 .000 6 1 .857 Michigan 0 0 .000 3 0 1.000 Nebraska 0 0 .000 6 1 .857 Minnesota 0 0 .000 4 1 .800 Kansas St. 0 0 .000 3 1 .750 Northwestern 0 0 .000 3 1 .750 
Colorado 0 0 .000 4 2 .667 

Wisconsin 0 0 .000 5 2 .714 Illinois 
0 
0 .000 4 2 .667 Great MldwHI Conterence Indiana 0 0 .000 2

3 
.600 Conference AIIGamee Purdue 0 0 .000 3 2 .600 


w L Pel w L Pet. DePaul 1 0 1.000 3 2 .600 Cincinnati 0 0 .000 6 0 1.000 

Atlantic: 10 Conference Afa-Birrn 0 0 .000 6 1 .857 Conference AIGamea Marquette 0 0 .000 3 
1 .750 w L Pet. w L Pel St. Louis 0 0 .000 1 2 .333 Temple 1 0 1.000 3 0 1.000 Memphis St. 0 1 .000 1 .500 
U. Mass 0 0 .000 7 1 .875 Rhode Island 0 0 .000 4 1 .800 Ivy Le.gue St. Bonaventure 0 0 .000 4 1 .800 
cont..nc:e AfiGamea George Wash. 0 .000 1 .750 WL
0 3 Pct.W L Pet. 
3 1 .750 Yale 0 0 .000 6 1 .857 St. Joseph's 0 0 .000 4 2 .667 Princeton 0 
Rutgers 0 0 .000 
0 .000 4 2 .f!RJ7 
2 .500

West VIrginia 0 0 .000 3 2 .600 Brown 0 0 .000 2 
4 .667 Penn 0 0 .000 1 3 .250 
Dartmouth 0 0 .000 0 2 .000 Columbia 0 0 .000 0 4 .000 Comell 0 0 .000 0 4 .000 
Harvard 0 0 .000 0 6 .000 

Duquesne 0 1 .000 2 
God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
0 
1.000 Syracuse 0 0 .000 5 0 1.000 

0 
1.000 Connecticut 0 0 .000 4 0 1.000 

0 
1.000 Seton Hall 0 0 .000 4 1 .800 

1 
.833 Georgetown 0 0 .000 3 1 .750 

1 
.833 St. John's 0 0 .000 3 1 .750 

1 
.800 Miami 0 0 .000 4 2 .667 

1 
.800 Pittsburgh 0 0 .000 4 2 .667 

1 
.750 Providence 0 0 .000 4 3 .571 

1 
.750 Villanova 0 0 .000 0 3 .000 


Big Eight Conterenc:e conterence AIIGamee WL Pct.W L Pet. 
NO HOOPS BOX 
BOSTON COLLEGE 78,. NOTRE DAME 54 
NOTRE DAME (1-4) 
Tower 1-4 1-2 3, Bennett 5-15 0-0 12. Ellis 8-17 2-6 18, Sweet 3-9 1-2 7, Taylor 4-6 0-0 9, Russell 0-1 0-0 0, Ross 0-1 0-0 0, Boyer 0-0 2-2 2, Cozen 1-4 0-0 3, Gilmore 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 22-57 6-12 54. BOSTON COLLEGE (6-0) 
Eisley 5-10 2-2 12, Huckaby 4-8 0-0 10, Curley 7­11 8-10 22, Abram 5-9 0-0 14, Hinton 5-9 0-1 10, C.Jackson 1-5 5-6 7, Foley 1-2 0-0 2, Molinsky 0-2 1-2 1, D.Jackson 0-0 0-1 0, Rountree 0-0 0-0 0, Hrobowski 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 28-56 16-22 78. 
Halftime--Boston College 45. Notre Dame 22. 3­Point goals-Notre Dame 4-11 (Bennett 2-5, Ellis 0-1, Sweet 0-1, Taylor 1-1, Cozen 1-3), Boston College 6-14 (Eisley 0-2, Huckaby 2-3, Abram 4-7, Hinton 0-1, Molinsky 0-1.) Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Notre Dame 33 (Ellis 15), Boston College 35 (Curley 7). Assists-Notre Dame 8 (Tower, Bennett 2), Boston College 15 (Eisley 7). Total fouls-Notre Dame 19, Boston College 14. A-6,659. 
'Tis the season to be jolly. Merry Christmas 
-The Observer 
-~­

-------------.. 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Starks bombs SuperSonics into submission, 96-87 
NEW YORK (AP) -John Starks hit three of his five 3­pointers in the fourth quarter as the New York Knicks beat the Seattle SuperSonics 96-87 Wednesday night. 
lUcky Pierce led the Sonics with 25 points and hit all seven of his free throws to pull within three of Calvin Murphy's NBA record of 78 consecutive foul shots without a miss. 
But it was Stark's marks­manship from long range that saved the Knieks. lie was 1-for­9 on 2-point attempts, but was 5-for-5 on 3-pointers and fin­islwd with 19 points. 
Nuggets 98, 76ers 88 
I'IIILADELPIIIA -Reggie Williams scored 21 points as Denver won at the Spectrum for the first time in four years. 
Dihmbe Mutombo and Walter Davis added 18 points apiece for the Nuggets, who had lost three straight at Philadelphia. After losing 25 consecutive road games, Denver has now won two of its last three away from home. 
Charles Barkley, returning after missing six games with bruised ribs, scored 21 points for the 76ers, who have lost seven of their last 10 games. Hersey Hawkins led Philadelphia with 24 points and Armon Gilliam added 23. 
Heat 105, Cavaliers 103 
MIAMI -Rony Seikaly grabbed a team-record 24 re­bounds and hit the go-ahead free throw with 12.7 seconds left as Miami broke a five-game losing streak. 
Seikaly scored eight of his 20 points in the final 2:35, includ­ing a free throw that gave the Heat a 103-102 lead with 12.7 

seconds remaining. 
Seikaly made it 104-102 when he hit one of two free throws with 8.6 seconds left. Cleveland's Larry Nance was fouled with 2.3 seconds remain­ing and had a chance to tie it, but missed his first shot. Mark Price led the Cavaliers with 21 points. 
Mavs 1 06, Hornets 1 03 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Derek Harper scored 15 of Dallas' 21 points in the fourth quarter as the Mavericks dominated in the backcourt. 
Harper finished with 35 points and Rolando Blackman added 24 for the Mavs. Dallas' starting guards outscored their Charlotte counterparts 59-23. 
Larry Johnson led Charlotte with 24 points and 10 re­bounds, while Kenny Gattison added 18 points and 18 re­bounds. Muggsy Bogues had 17 assists and no turnovers for the Hornets. 
Spurs 98, 'Wolves 85 
MINNEAPOLIS -David Robinson had 35 points, 14 re­bounds and nine blocks as San Antonio snapped a five-game losing streak. 
Robinson, who scored 15 points during a 21-5 run at the 
. end of the third quarter, fin­ished one block shy of his sev­enth career triple-double. It was only the third win in 10 road games for the Spurs, who are 8-1 at home. Gerald Glass scored 21 points for Minnesota, which has lost five consecutive games. The Timberwolves have the worst record (3-14) in the NBA. 
Jazz 1 01 , Lakers 95 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -John 
Stockton scored eight of his 15 points during a 14-0 run that started late in the third quarter, lifting Utah past Los Angeles. 
Karl Malone had 24 points and Jeff Malone 19 for the Jazz. who won their fifth consecutive game to stay in first placde in the Midwest Division. 
James Worthy finished with 33 points and Byron Scott had 20 for the Lakers, still in first place in the Pacific Division. 
Sedate Threatt's layup with 
3:21 to play pulled the Lakers to 91-86, and Elden Campbell's tip-in with 2:16 left got the Lakers within three, but they got no closer. 
Clippers 101, Pistons 96 
LOS ANGELES -Charles Smith scored 23 points and Los Angeles matched its longest winning streak at six games by defeating Detroit. 
Mitchell heads to Seattle in five-player deal with Giants 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (APl ­The Seattle Mariners finally made their big move, and it wasn't to Florida. 
Instead, as many teams packed up and left the winter meetings Wednesday, the shakiest franchise in baseball found a foundation player in Kevin Mitchell. 
The Mariners traded three pitchers to San Francisco for Mitchell and a minor leaguer, saving the best deal of the week until the end. Mitchell has hit 109 home runs in three years, and may hit even more in the Kingdome, the Florida Suncoast Dome or wherever the Mariners might wind up. 
For commissioner Fay Vincent, there is an even more pressing matter. He said he would soon meet with NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue and NBA commissioner David Stern to talk about AIDS. 
"We think it is appropriate for us to come together," Vincent said. ''I'm sure each of us can contribute something. Each of us has a lot to learn." 
Vincent made his remarks following a joint owners meeting. In other business, Vincent said it was up to the New York Yankees' partners to pick a successor for Robert Nederlander to run the team. Nederlander is resigning Dec. 31; Vincent did not comment on the possibility of George Steinbrenner returning. 
While the owners met, three other swaps were worked out, starting when Kansas City's Todd Benzinger moved to Los Angeles for Chris Gwynn. 
Later, Philadelphia's Bruce Ruffin and Milwaukee's Dale Sveum traded places and then Cincinnati made its fourth trade of the off-season, sending John Wetteland to Montreal for Dave Martinez in a five-player deal. 

Tom Kelly, meanwhile, was rewarded for being the AL manager of the year and leading Minnesota to the World Series championship when the Twins gave him a one-year contract extension through 1994. 
Mitchell is also signed through 1994, at $3.5 million per season. Even with Mariners owner Jeff Smulyan struggling to sell the team for $100 million, he said he wasn't hesistant about spending a lot to land Mitchell. 
"We needed someone like him," Smulyan said. "He's worth it." 
It cost the Mariners more than money. To get Mitchell and minor league pitcher Mike Remlinger, Seattle gave up relievers Bill Swift, Mike Jackson and Dave Burba. 
"Our main priority was 
finding a right-handed, No. 4 hitter," Mariners general manager Woody Woodward said. "With Kevin hitting behind Ken Griffey Jr.. our entire lineup has become a lot more potent." 
The Mariners and Giants talked during the season about a trade for Mitchell, but Seattle balked when San Francisco wanted starter Erik Hanson. The teams met several times this week, and completed the deal in the early hours Wednesday after four more meetings. 
Mitchell was the subject of several trade rumors recently, including a possible trip to Texas for reliever Jeff Russell. Most moves were put on hold until Monday, when it was announced that criminal charges would not be filed against Mitchell in an alleged rape involving his former girlfriend. 

Mitchell, 29, hit 27 home runs with 69 RBis in 113 games last season, a year interrupted by a groin pull. He was NL MVP in 1989, when he had 47 homers and 125 RBis, and he hit 35 home runs with 95 RBis in 1990. 
"Before we came to Miami, we felt that our No. 1 priority was improving our pitching staff," Giants general manager AI Rosen said. "We've acquired three solid pitchers with major league experience." 
Swift, 30, was 1-2 with 17 saves and a 1.99 ERA. Jackson. 26, was 7-7 with 14 saves and a 
3.25 ERA. Burba, 25, was 2-2 with a 3.68 ERA for the Mariners. 
The Reds, who acquired Wetteland last month in a trade that moved Eric Davis to the Dodgers, turned around and sent the 25-year-old pitcher to Montreal. 
Cincinnati also gave up minor league pitcher Bill Risley in return for Martinez, who hit .295 with 42 RBis and 16 steals, plus pitcher Scott Ruskin and minor league infielder Willie Greene. 
Since the World Series ended, the Reds also have obtained Bip Roberts from San Diego and Greg Swindell from Cleveland. 
Philadelphia and Milwaukee traded a pair of 28-year-old players who have struggled since success early in their careers. Sveum hit 25 home runs with 95 RBis in 1987. but broke his leg the following September and never regained a starting job in the Brewers' infield. 
Guatemalan Imports Returns with new shipment (great Chrlsbnas buys) 
Vests
* 

Shirts Hooded RaJas Fanny Packs Beaded Jewelry and avariety or hats, belts, purses, barettas I headbands. Trad111onallndlan Clothing I much, much, morel l.aFortunl Dec. 1·14 1.-101111-filln In the Sorln Room 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS 
McNall to tear down Exhibition for arena 

•TORONTO-Plans are under way to tear down Exhibition Stadium and replace it with an arena for concerts, hockey, basketball and other professional sports. The proposed arena, which would seat about 22,000, would be big enough to accommodate the NHL's Toronto Maple Leafs or an NBA franchise, according to the plans. Bruce McNall, co-owner of the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League, has been scouting for an NBA franchise for Toronto. All financing comes from the private sector and the city would lease the land to the company granted the right to build the arena. "This is a great deal if it goes through," said Peter Moore, chief general manager of Exhibition Place. 
Smith visits Southern Cal and Stanford 

•COLUMBUS, Ohio-Former Ohio State tailback Robert Smith will visit Southern Cal and Stanford within a week about a possible transfer, but he has not eliminated the option of returning to the Buckeyes. Smith said he would visit Southern Cal on Thursday and Stanford on Monday. And what about a return to Ohio State? "Anything is possible," he told The Columbus Dispatch in an interview published Wednesday. Smith quit the Ohio State team just before the start of the season. He cited a lack of concern for academics and players' health by head coach John Cooper and offensive coordinator Elliot Uzelac. Smith said he would not return unless both coaches were removed. 
Cox ~a~s dearly for visit with Bush 
Deion markets Primetime suits 

•ATLANTA-Deion Sanders, nicknamed Prime Time, is trying to score in the clothing business. Sanders is marketing a line of "Primetime" jogging suits, winter coats with down lining and fur collars, sweatshirts and T-shirts. True to Sanders' flashy image, the merchandise carries a "lightning man" logo. And the $125 jogging suits are available in bright orange, purple and green combinations. 
Sanders has toyed with the idea before, but didn't make a major marketing push until his Atlanta Braves and Atlanta Falcons began doing better on the playing field. The Braves went from last place to the World Series in October, and the formerly last-place Falcons appear headed for the playoffs. "Success does things," Sanders said. ''I'm trying to get the goods out there." 
role in Flood's outstanding campaign.
Flood 

"I know sometimes I just wanted to give up," said Flood,
continued from page 16 

"And they'd always have a few 
words to help me along." tional leaders, senior Diana As far as the future goes for Bradley and junior Lisa Gorski, the freshman sensation, she is for their excellent perfor-competing on the Notre Dame mances this year. The two up-track team, and she has a sim-
Missouri jumps out to 4-0 start 
Tiger squad shines in coach Stewart's 25th campaign 

COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -No one would have been surprised to see Missouri get off to a rough start this season, what with the long list of trouble and strife the team has encountered. 
The odds were certainly not in favor of the Tigers, who were coming off a year of NCAA probation, had graduated their top player and were unsure whether another important player would return because of legal trouble. 
But so far none of that seems to matter. 
The Tigers, No. 21, are off to a 4-0 start and have broken into the Top 25 for the first time since the beginning of last season. 
"The things we've been through have really matured a lot of the kids beyond their years," coach Norm Stewart, who's in his 25th season at Missouri, said Wednesday. 
Missouri played Nebraska­Kearney State Wednesday night. 
Over the weekend, the Tigers went to Fayetteville, Ark., and knocked off No. 19 Arkansas 8 7-7 6 in a nationally televised game. That raised a few eyebrows even though the Razorbacks were playing without three players including senior guard Todd Day, who is ineligible until Jan. 2. 
Day has been accused of participating in a sexual assault and cheating on a test. 
"Missouri's a good basketball team. We all know that here in the Midwest. Now a few more people know it," said Kansas State coach Dana Altman. 
Stewart said he's pleased with his team's play so far, but he won't know how good the team 
as well as she did on the Irish cross-country team. 
"Keep training and running races," said Flood, "And hope­fully I'll do well." 
Bet on Flood's formula and her hard work to bring her continued success beyond her 

nerclassmen also_;p,...la~y~e.,d~a,..,.,~bi;g;r•p•le'=fo:'r:m•u•l•a•t•o•c•o•n•ti•.n•u:e~r~unm-:·-:n~g-fr•e•sh•m-a•n-::c~a•m•p~a~i~g•n•.----, 
Flower DeliverY-7 Days 
f'@'SY 0 ~ttA 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets Be Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~~~~l;r::hre (219) 277·1291 
South Ben IN 46637 , ....Aaw••• Z4 brl. 
Norm Stewart 

will be until he knows the answers to two questions. 
Will Chris Heller, the team's tallest player at 6-foot-10, return from an injury, and will Jamal Coleman, a starter last year, be eligible to play the rest of the season. 
Coleman, a senior, had been suspended from the team from April through October for his part in a bookstore refund scam. He pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of misdemeanor stealing and has been playing. 
Last week, however, the Student Conduct Committee voted to suspend him from school for the second semester. He has said he plans to appeal that action. 
Along with Coleman's legal trouble, the Tigers have had to deal with the fallout from last year's one-year NCAA probation for recruiting violations and the loss of Doug Smith, who was a first-round draft pick of the Dallas Mavericks. 
One reason for Missouri's quick start has been the play of Anthony Peeler, a senior who is beginning to take charge after three sporadic years filled with flashes of brilliance. 
Peeler, who's averaging 23.3 points a game, scored 32 points in the win against Arkansas and 30 points against Florida A&M. His quick moves and daring style has rubbed off on his teammates. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•There 
will be a meeting for the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame women's lacrosse club tonight at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. ' 

•Attention 
Rowing Club: Members are reminded that we are taking out the dock today. Everyone's assistance is needed, and time involved will be minimal. Meet at the Main Circle today at 4:30p.m. for rides. 

•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes is having a semester-end party in the basement of Farley from 7-8 p.m. tonight. 

•The 
results for the Coree tourney are: Semifinals-Zahm over Stanford-Badin 106-67, Honor over Freddy's 78-72. Finals­Zahm over Honor 80-54. 



Misa en espafiol 
Mass in Spanish 
Fiesta de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe 
Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe 
Jueves, 12 de diciembre Spm, Sacred Heart Church 
Thursday, December 12 
Celebrante: P. Ted Weber, esc Musica liturgica par Liturgical music of the el cora focl6rico de Notre Dame Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Despues de la misa, cena mexicana y festividades a! CSC de 6-8pm. La cena esta patrodnada par !a sociedad Guadalupena de !a parroquia de St. Stephen's (donaci6n de 53). 
Following Mass, Mexican dinner and festit'ities at the Center for Social Concerns from 6:00 -8:00pm. Dinner sponsored by the Guadalupeiia Society of St. Step/zen's Parisi! ($3.00 donation). 
-
OFFICE OF 0MPU5 
MINISTRY 
Thursday, December 12, 1991 The Observer page 1~--l -c~A~~V-IN-A~ND_H_o_aa_E_s--~------B-IL_L_W_An_E_R_so_N_____TH_E_M_R_S-ID_E_______________G~A~RY-L~AR~s~oN~--~s=PE~L=uN=K=ER~----------------J~~~H~o=sL~E~R j 
Stl~£1\M£:S W\-\'t:~ I'H SICI(, ~0\.J RtAC> M't: ASiC!<'{. WA.NT M't: TO~~ YOU ON£.? 

PN ACCIDf.NT? A-RE You NUTS? LOOK AT nt6 PID6f. 

TH£ FE AntE:RSITHE. 
THIS BROKEN l-AMP Aa.r DeNT/ I stSrecr FOWL Pl-AY. 
• 

It pets wore hats: a study In animal personalities and styles 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 

1 Garland for the head 7 Shoe or accent 
13 Serf or thrall 
15 Shower activity 
16 Tige (3 wds.) 
18 Noshed 
19 Trained down 
20 Rater of m.p.g. 
21 French movie 
23 German steel center 
24 Gardener, at times 
25 Santa's reindeer, e.g. 
27 Peter and Moses 28 Justifications for 
being (2 wds.) 34 Guidonian note 35 Julie Christie film 36 Neighbor of Mich. 39 1895 automotive in­
vention (2 wds.)41 Computer language 44 Puccini opera 45 Not an imitation 
(abbr.) 46 Trite 51 Goulash 52 Actress Mary ---­53 Jipijapa hats 55 Opposite of WSW 56 Champion (3 wds.)59 Copes with 60 Legendary 61 Dealer in the stock 

exchange 62 Valuable violins, for short 
DOWN 
1 Tuna variety 2 Maritime 3 In ----(without
being present) 

4 American recora label 5 "----Tu," 1932 
song 6 Actress Oberon 7 Elizabeth ----, 
Irish novelist 8 Sally or Ayn 9 Wife of Saturn 
10 Evangelical society 11 Sealed 12 Actress Samantha, 
and family 14 Baseball stats 15 Suffix for two or 
three 17 Hotel sign (abbr.) 22 Some tee~. gradu­
ates, for short 24 Tint 26 Subject 27 U.S. or Lou 29 Dora Copperfield 
----Spenlow 30 Baker and Beale 
(abbr.) 31 Expected 32 Pipe joint 33 Gift for a man 36 Flowering shrub 37 In high dudgeon 38 Ocean plants 39 Understand, to some 40 General offices: 
abbr. 41 Believed 42 Debt 43 Yellowish brown 46 Hank of baseball 47 Formicologist's 
specimens 48 Close to: Scot. 49 Vanderbilt and 
Carter 50 Endures 53 Colorless 54 Something to put 57 Mr. Byrnes 58 Hockey great 
CAMPUS 

Thursday 
10 a. m.-5 p. m. St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar. Lobby, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Student Government Board, Saint Mary's College. 
5 p. m. Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, P. Ted Weber, celebrant. Sacred Heart Church. Following Mass, Mexican dinner and festivities at the Center for Social Concerns from 6-8 p.m. Dinner sponsored by the Guadalupena Society of St. Stephen's Parish. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film. "It's a Wonderful Life." Cushing Auditorium. 
Friday 

9:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
LECTURES 

Thursday 
7:30 p. m. Lecture, "The Future of Design Education," John Heskett, Illinois Institute of Technology. Room 207, Architecture Building. Sponsored by School of Architecture. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Prime Ribs of Beef Au Jus Cajun Chicken Tchouptoulas Baked Fresh Florida Grouper 
Saint Mary's 
Christmas Buffet Prime Rib Sliced Chicken Florentine Stir Fried Vegetables over Rice 
"THE SHIRT" 

C1-{{RJSrrM5t5 MOo/I'ES
On Sale for the Rest of the Semester Student Government Office It's a Wondeifu[ Life -Tonight
9-5, Weekdays 

.9L Christmas Story -Friday & 
Saturday
f'~IJ 
8 & 10:30 PM 

,.~--' CUSHING AUDITORIUM
~~.~, 
ADMISSION: $2
-"c 

~fiil(,;\~;~ET, 1/~'1': • 
I'D C{funi o{Cxc.ffmcr. .1/ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
• 



Sports 

page 16 Thursday, December 12, 1991 
Eagles prey upon Irish in Beantown, 78-54 

Notre Dame drops to 1-4 after loss to Boston College 
Observer Staff Report After Curley's basket. Abram 
nailed a three-pointer and 

NEWTON, Mass.-Billy Curley Curley followed with a turn­scored 17 of his 22 points in the around jumper inside the lane. opening half as Boston College Daimon Sweet converted a capitalized on 17 Notre Dame three-point pla,y with 7:57 left first-half turnovers and rolled before the Eagle.s closed the to a 78-54 romp over the final 3:46 of the run with 14 struggling Irish Wednesday consecutive points. night. The Irish never moved closer 
Boston College raised its than 20 points in the final 15 record to 6-0, its best start minutes of the game. since 1985-86. The Irish. Ellis was unstoppable in the playing their second of nine first eight minutes of the game, straight road contests. fell to 1-scoring eight points and 
4. Notre Dame's only win under grabbing nine rebounds. first-year coach John MacLeod MacLeod's 1-4 start is the came in a 71-66 triumph at worst for a Notre Dame team Valparaiso Monday. since the Irish began the 1972­
The Irish finished with 23 73 season at 1-6. turnovers and shot just 39 The year before, in Digger percent from the floor. The Phelps' first season, the Irish Eagles, who trailed only after fell to Indiana 94-29 and UCLA the game's initial basket. led 114-56 amongst other early­45-22 at intermission. season blowouts before closing 
Gerrod Abram scored 14 the gaps in late-season points, Howard Eisley added 12 matchups with top teams. and Malcom Huckaby had 10 MacLeod's team has found the for BC. David Hinton also early parts of 1991-92 similarly chipped in with 10 points, all difficult, and little relief exists coming in the first half. in a schedule which includes 
Senior LaPhonso Ellis paced North Carolina, Duke, Notre Dame with 18 points and Kentucky, Syracuse and 15 rebounds, his fourth time Virginia-all on the road. this season he's posted double The Irish get three weeks off figures in both columns. to recuperate before the third 
After Ellis' dunk cut the game of their nine-game road Eagles' lead to 20-14 with 11 trip. Play will resume January 3 minutes remaining in the first when Notre Dame travels to half, Curley's short jumper, his Lexington to face Rick Pitino's first of three baskets in the run, Kentucky Wildcats. triggered a 21-3 spurt over the The Associated Press next 7:35. contributed to this report. 
Basketball big loser after Howard's gridiron successes 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -when he enrolled at Cleveland's 
Howard, he made it clear he far combined for 31 touchdown Greatness can sometimes come St. Joseph's High School. wasn't going anyplace without passes, an NCAA record for one wrapped in strange packages. "Desmond was a good Grbac. Ohio State was willing. duo. They have combined for 19 That may explain how Desmond basketball player," J.D. Howard So was Michigan. touchdown passes this season, Howard almost became a recalled. "That's why he wanted "At the time I was being tying the NCAA single-season basketball player. to go to St. Joseph's. But after recruited. Ohio State had just record set in 1989 by Andre 
And, who knows, he might he scored five touchdowns in fired Earle Bruce and was Ware and Manny Hazard of have been a great basketball his first football ball game, I bringing in John Cooper," Houston. player, too. But you don't win said, 'Maybe we better rethink Howard said. "I didn't want to Howard also set an NCAA the Heisman Trophy for playing this thing.'" be part of a rebuilding record by catching at least one basketball. But the young Howard's time program. I wanted to be part of touchdown pass in 10 
The Heisman goes to the on the basketball court wasn't a program that was already consecutive regular season nation's outstanding college completely wasted. It was on established so I could go to a games. football player, and Howard is a the basketball team that he Rose Bowl. The 5-foot-11, 176-pound virtual cinch to claim the award became friends with a tall, raw­I "I think my decision has Howard scored 23 touchdowns Saturday night. The Michigan boned kid named Elvis Grbac. Desmond Howard definitely worked in my favor and finished with 1,749 all­split end already has won the In the 11th grade, after some thus far." purpose yards this season. His Walter Camp and Maxwell prodding by his pal, Grbac tried "We lived in different parts of Indeed. The fourth-ranked 138 points in 1991 are a awards. out for the football team. His town," Grbac said. "We aren't Wolverines (10-1) will play No. Michigan record, topping the 
But it might never have inexperience showed, but they that close socially, but we've 2 Washington (11-0) in the Rose previous mark of 117 by Tom happened if Howard's father. let him play quarterback where had this friendship right from Bowl on New Year's Day. Harmon in 1940. J.D., hadn't been quick to spot his main function was to hand the start because of sports." Howard and Grbac·. both of Harmon, of course, was the
-
an obvious talent. Howard was the ball off to Howard, a When the college recruiters whom have a season of only Wolverine to win a interested mainly in basketball dynamite tailback in those days. began swooping down on eligibility remaining, have so Heisman, until now. 
Flood comes ·a long way from Dublin Freshman cross-country runner leads team in 1991 
By JONATHAN JENSEN "People on the team helped again, finishing fourth in the Sports Writer me to adjust over here," said MCC championships. Flood. "My coach was great," said Eva Flood certainly has come And she adjusted quite the unassuming freshman. a long way. quickly, pacing the Irish in her In the last race of the year, 
The freshman from Dublin, first three collegiate meets. Flood impressed, finishing 30th Ireland first set foot on Flood took second overall in the out of over 200 runners in the American soil this fall, and to­Georgetown dual meet, ninth in District IV Meet. The fmish was day she is the Observer Player the National Catholic Meet, and good enough for second on the of the Year for the Notre Dame seventh in Notre Dame's team behind Jensen's 22nd­women's cross-country team. second-place finish at the Notre place finish. 
Flood was a bright spot for Dame Invitational. In less than three months, Notre Dame all season. as she "I didn't know what to ex­Eva Flood went from a new­led the Irish in four out of their pect," noted Flood. "I wanted comer in America to one of the six meets. Her freshman cam­to do well but it was just a Midwest's best runners. Flood 
.. paign is even more astounding bonus." and the rest of the Notre Dame if you consider the fact that in As if that wasn't enough, freshmen, who make up five addition to getting used to col­Flo~d ran second to fellow out of the team's top seven run­legiate cross-country she had to freshman Stefanie Jensen in the ners, credit the team's emo-adjust to college life in a dif­Indiana Intercollegiate Meet 
see FLOOD/page 14

ferent country. and then led Notre Dame once 







