
r-----------~--------------------------------------------------------------------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 134 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1991 . i THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER.SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S· . 

Intensely Irish The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Students peruse their copies of The Dome at yesterday's yearbook distribution in Theodore's and rem­inisce about the year's events at Notre Dame and around the world. 
WASIIINGTON -The House Judiciary Committee approved a seven-way waiting period for handgun purchases Tuesday, paving the way for debate by the full House on a measure supporters say will help stem the nation's crime epidemic. 
The panni approved the so­called Brady bill on a 23-11 vote after rejecting an alterna­tive proposal to require "point­of-salll" checks of computerized criminal records. 
Th11 amtmdment failed on a 23-11 vote. Its sponsor, Rep. Harley Staggers Jr., 0-W.Va., plans to propose the provision again when the full House de­
hates  the  issue.  The  
amnndment  has  100  
cosponsors.  

Both sidns say they expect a dost~ vote whnn thn Brady bill eomes to the Housn floor in two weeks. 
The bill gained momentum last month when it was en­dorsed by ex-President Heagan, who had long opposed the mea­sure. The White House has sig­naled a softening of its opposi­tion to the bill, indicating it might accept it if Congress passes key elements of Presi­dent Bush's crime bill. 
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh reiterated that po­sition Tuesday. 
If Bush "gets favorable reac­tion on the essentials of his crime bill, I think he is much more inclined to look favorably on any allied legislation that , might come to him," Thorn­burgh told a meeting of mayors, who have endorsed the Brady bill. 
The committee's action cheered supporters, who noted that one Republican lawmaker opposed to the measure in 1988, Rep. French Slaughter of Virginia. voted for the bill. 
Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. and chairman of the crime sub­committee, said House Speaker Thomas Foley, 0-Wash., has promised debate and a vote in about two weeks. 
The bill is named after former White House press secretary James Brady, paralyzed in the 1981 attempt on Reagan's life. 
Brady, who attended Tues­day's vote with his wife, Sarah, said he was optimistic that Congress would pass the mea­sure. which failed in the House by 46 votes in 1988. 
"These are good people; they will do the right thing," Brady said. But Mrs. Brady conceded that even if the bill wins House passage next month "the Senate side's a different ball game." 
Supporters argue that the bill is needed to prevent convicted criminals and mentally dis­turbed people from purchasing guns. 
"I believe Congress is on the verge of transforming public opinion into public policy," Schumer said. "The old, decep­tive arguments against the Brady bill have withered away. replaced by good common sense and a disgust with the bloody violence in our streets." 
Opponents contend that it won't help police stop criminals from getting guns and is there­fore not worth the inconve­nience it will impose on law­abiding citizens. 
"The Brady bill is like a gun without a trigger; it may look good on the wall, but it doesn't work," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas. 
Earthquake in Central America kills 79; aid on the way as rescuers search ruins 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ­Rescuers searched the rubble of buildings and international aid began pouring in Tuesday for victims of a powerful earthquake that killed at least 79 people, injured more than 800 and left thousands home­less. 
The Monday night quake, which measured 7.4 on the Richter scale, was the deadliest in Central America since 1986, when an earthquake left 1,500 people dead in El Salvador. 
Officials said there were at least 50 confirmed deaths in Costa Rica and 29 in Panama's remote Atlantic province of Bo­cas del Toro, which had not registered an earthquake since 1916. 
Bridges and roads throughout Costa Rica were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake, making it difficult to assess the extent of deaths and damage. Neighboring Nicaragua sent he­licopters to fly over areas cut off by landslides and road damage. 
The epicenter was near Puerto Limon, a sleepy Caribbean port of 130,000 peo­ple about 7 5 miles east of this Costa Rican capital. 
In that city, two hotels, the customs house, an office build­ing and scores of homes col­lapsed. A hospital was dam­aged and Red Cross workers were treating injured in the streets. 
Red Cross spokesman Miguel Orozco said hospital patients and those injured in the earthquake were being treated in a tent set up in the street near the hospital. 
"This place looks like one of 
SUFR proposal affirmed by Malloy 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
University President Father Edward Malloy yesterday urged Students United for Respect (SUFR) to complete the recog­nition process "as soon as pos­sible" and expressed pleasure at the coalition's decision to accept his plan to continue dis­cussion on issues related to cultural diversity. 
Malloy issued the statement Tuesday afternoon in response to SUFR's latest proposal, which included an amendment regarding the need for an out­side third-party participant to assist in the discussions. 
In his statement, Malloy did not specifically mention his ap­proval or denial of the amend­ment, saying only that "all ap­pointed participants in the re­sulting discussions will be members of the University community." 
"He failed to address the is­sue of third-party assistance entirely," said SUFR member Joe Wilson. 
"It was a blatant disregard for the issue," according to 
."' ' 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~· 
• 
Malloy's letter I page 3 

• 
Dorm life changes/ page 3 


Corey Collins, SUFH member, "I was definitely disappointed." 
The third-party arbitrator is a key issue to SUFH members. Collins said, as conventional di­alogue between the coalition and the administration has failed to yield the desired re­sults. 
SUFH will meet tonight to discuss Malloy's response, ac­cording to Collins. The coalition will decide whether to accept the proposal on Malloy's terms, or whether to take additional steps to see the issuHs ad­dressed. 
Collins stressed that the meeting, at 7:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune, is open to "all interested parties." and not just SUFH members. 
Although Collins and Wilson said that they did not know what the coalition would decide at tonight's meeting, Wilson expressed concern that this fi­
see SUFR/page 3 

An ancient building in downtown San Jose, Costa Rica suffered heavy damage after an earthquake shock Monday afternoon which caused severe destruction all around the country. 
these Hollywood apocalyptic receded 100 feet and some ter­movies. It felt like the world rifled Puerto Limon residents was coming to an end as every-fled for higher ground, fearing thing moved and heaved," a tidal wave. Similar scenes Rigoberto Perez, a resident of were reported in Panama. Puerto Limon, said by tele-Panamanian President phone. Guillermo Endara declared a 
Thousands of people, fearful "state of national emergency" of aftershocks, slept in the and designated the Bocas del streets around bonfires rather Toro province a disaster area than go home. 
see QUAKE/page 8 

When the quake hit, the sea 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Survivors' names should not be released 
The masthead of The New York Times contains a legendary motto, "All the News That's Fit to Print." I used to believe this-I never had a reason not to. The Times, for me, 

has been a model of what  Monica Yant  
fair and ethical journalism  News Editor  
is all about.  

So after watching one of my favorite papers foolishly hitch a ride on the sleeze-media bandwagon by publishing the name of the woman accusing William Kennedy Smith of rape, I am left questioning the validity of such a statement, not to mention condemning The Times for their decision. 
The Times is not the only party at fault. The first paper to publish her name was The Sunday Mirror, a British tabloid. NBC News followed suit. So did The Globe out of Boca Raton, which even violated a Florida law prohibiting the disclosure of survivors' identities by naming the woman in the Kennedy case. 
It is difficult to prove what, if any, jour­nalistic merit the disclosure of the rape sur­vivor's name adds to a story, unless the woman gives her name voluntarily and for a reason. Such was the case in the Pulitzer Prize-winning series done last year by the Des Moines Register. The woman, a wife and mother, came forward with her story and wanted her name included to show that rape survivors are people as well as victims of a brutal crime. 
Such was not the case with the woman ac­cusing William Kennedy Smith of raping her. When her name was disclosed, so were biased judgments of her lifestyle and social practices. As a single mother who voluntarily accompanied Smith to the Kennedy estate, such information does nothing but slant the case against her and perpetuate the notion that perhaps she is to blame for the incident. 
The issue of releasing rape survivors' names is a sticky one for journalists, who are elevated to God-like positions in making these types of decisions. Why was the Central Park jogger's name withheld and not the Kennedy estate survivor? Perhaps because the woman in Central Park was a respected investment banker in the city, and the woman in Florida is lacking such socioeconomic distinction. 
Why might survivors of rape by attackers of a different race be protected when the survivor of an attack by a major national official be identified? Perhaps because the assumption is that a Kennedy who rapes is "news" while an everyday Joe is not. 
In each and every case of rape, it is im­portant to actually assess whether releasing the survivor's name is actually journalistically relevant. With the exception of the Des Moines story, it is difficult to say that the name of the woman can do anything but add to the already unending victimizing. 
And in the Kennedy case, it might just sway a jury against her. So to The Times, I ask, "Was this 'News,' and was it really 'Fit to Print?'" Use a little common sense and a lot of decency. The answer is obvious. 
The views (}xpressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 

Today's  Staff:  
News  Sports  
David Kinney AliCia Reale  Systems  Jennifer Marten  
Chris Caracciolo  Scoreboard  
Accent  Mike Murphy  Dave McMahon  
Melissa Cusack  
Paige Smoron  Graphics Brendan Regan  Production Lisa Bourdon  
Ad Design Dou11 Bronsing  Circulation  Kristin Lynch  
Traa Hupp Kevin Hardman  Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  VIewpoint Rich Riley  
Amy Eckert  
Usa Gunsorek  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

.have decided to put 10 steel rings around the Tower of Pisa in a temporary measure designed to keep the monument from tilting too fast. Although many experts claimed the tower would not topple for another 100 years, the government closed it to the public in January 1990 because of fears of danger to tourists. The tower, begun by Bonanno Pisano in 1173, started to tilt almost immediately because the ground shifted underneath. It was finished by Tommaso D'Andrea with the construction of its crowning belfry between 1360 and 1370. 
Minsk activists strike 
• MOSCOW-Tens of thousands of workers in Minsk, the Byelorussian capital, walked off the job today to protest the republic's failure to address their demands for wage increases and Mikhail Gorbachev's resignation. The walkout -the city's second in two weeks -was the latest in a series of strikes across the nation that threaten to bring an already crippled economy to its knees. About 50,000 people marched from their factories to Minsk's central Lenin Square for a rally. Minsk demonstrators voiced new political demands, including a declaration of Byelorussian sovereignty, a halt to sending money to the national budget, and no signing of a Union Treaty with the Kremlin. 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Sophomore Siblings participants: proofs of photos from the weekend are available this week only in the sophomore class office, 213 LaFortune. Come by Wednesday from 4:30 to 6 p.m. or Thursday and Friday from 3 to 5 p.m. to place orders. The deadline is Friday at 5 p.m. 

• 
An information session for graduate students re­garding 1992-93 Fulbrights, full-grants and travel grants for graduate study, research or travel abroad, will be held in Room 410 Administration today at 4 p.m. 

• 
An undergraduate piano recital will be given by Suzanne Brown and Ellen White today at 12:30 p.m. in Room 115 of Crowley Hall of Music. Brown will perform pieces by Chopin and Mendelsjohn, while White will per­form pieces by Debussy and Beethoven. 


MARKET UPDATE 
' YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April23, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX A 167.84 Million 208.68 "13" 
.29 S&P COMPOSITE A.:,:
381.76 1J' .81 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,930.45 11 2.73 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD ..f $ .85 to $357.1 0/oz. SILVER t-0.3¢ to $3.94/oz. 

NATIONAL 
Whitne~ Houston charged 
• LEXIN ION, Ky. -Whitney Houston was charged in a summons Tuesday with punching a man in the eye and threatening to kill him during a fight in a hotel lounge. The fight involved the singer's brother, Michael Houston, and Michael Owens of Austin, Texas, in the lounge of the Radisson Plaza hotel. In a related complaint, Owens alleged that Michael Houston started the fight. He said the singer's brother began yelling at him after someone in a group of people in the lounge yelled, "It's Whitney Houston." Houston was charged with two misdemeanors, fourth-degree assault and terroristic threatening. 
FBI Director Sessions calls talk 
•WASHINGTON 
-FBI Director William Sessions is bringing the chiefs of the bureau's 56 field offices to headquarters to discuss the discrimination complaints of black agents, the bureau said Tuesday. The daylong session set for Wednesday was the latest move by Sessions in a personal campaign to deal with the FBI's simmering racial difficulties. An FBI report this month said there are 122 unresolved equal opportunity complaints by agency employees. The black agents said some date back to 1986. 

• 
A graduate piano recital will be given by Sharla Ripley today at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art. Ripley will perform pieces by Mozart, Delio Joio, Liszt, Debussy and Chopin. The recital is free and the public is welcome. 

• 
Career and Placement Services would like to help seniors moving to a new city find a new roommate/house­mate. Stop into their office and add your name to the "Information Exchange" listing now, and then check back often for names. 

• 
Tickets required for entrance to the Guess Who Concert on Saturday, April 27 will be available Wednesday or Thursday at the LaFortune Information Desk. The first 2500 tickets are good for rain or shine. The second 2500 tickets are only valid only for shine. 



ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1704: The first American newspaper printed on a regular basis, the Boston News Letter, was published for the flrst time. 

• 
In 1898: Spain declared war on the United States after rejecting America's ultimatum to withdraw from Cuba . 

• 
In 1916: Some 1,600 Irish nationalists launched the Easter Rising by seizing several key points in Dublin, including the General Post Office, and proclaiming the establishment of an Irish republic. 

• 
Ten years ago: President Reagan lifted a 16-month­old grain embargo against the Soviet Union. 


----------------------~----------------­
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 The Observer 


Changes in residence halls proposed to diversify ND life 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Residence life at Notre Dame was discussed at the fifth meeting set up by Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Stu­dent Affairs, to discuss issues relating to cultural diversity. 
Tuesday's meeting discussed some of the recommendations made by the student govern­ment report committee in its report, "Tho Challenge of Di­versity." 
At the meeting, students dis­cussed these issues with O'Hara, Ann Firth, director of Hesidence Life, Elizabeth Pawlicki, assistant director of Hesidence Life, Kenneth Dur­gans, director of Minority Stu­dent Affairs, Holand Smith, ex­ecutive assistant to the Presi­dent, Laurie Brink, rectress of Pasquerilla West, and Father Joseph Hoss, rector of Morris­sey Hall. 
Students at the meeting in­cluded: Gina Mahoney, report chairwoman, Joslyn Allen, Manuel Espino, Derrick John­son, Joe Wilson and Natasha Wilson. 
The group unanimously con­sented on the following propos­als: 
• 
That more Ethnic Americans be recruited for the positions of assistant rector and resident assistant and to make dead­lines for applications more well­known. This, the group agreed, would involve efforts to make students feel more welcome in the residence halls. 

• 
That questions and/or possi­ble scenarios involving views and experiences regarding cul­tural awareness be included in interviews and applications for hall staff positions. 

• 
That surveys on cultural di­versity be correlated with per­sonal interviews of students by 


other students. Participants in the discussion expressed con­cerns that students would view surveys alone as ineffective. 
• 
That an effort be made by the Office of Financial Aid to evaluate the financial aid pack­ages of resident assistants. Some students raised the issue of not being able to keep their work study plans once they be­came resident assistants. 

• 
That the University make a concerted effort for head staff and administration officials to be trained, both by outside pro­fessionals and by students, on issues concerning cultural di­versity. 

• 
That the Office of Student Affairs and the Office of Resi­dence Life issue a follow-up re­port early next semester on what issues are discussed and considered over the summer. 


O'Hara expressed optimism that these changes could be im­plemented easily. 

Biological cleaners developed at Exxon used in clean-up of 1989 Alaska spill 

By AMY MARK 
News Writer 
Exxon developed and used new biological cleaners in its efforts to treat the oil-covered shorelines of the Prince William Sound, according to Jan Bock of Exxon Hesearch and Engi­neering Company. 
Bock discussed "Bin-remedi­ation and Natural Processes Used During the Alaskan Spill Clean-Up" last night at Galvin Life Science Center. 
On March 24, 1989, the Valdez, filled with 1.25 million barrels of crude oil, collided with Bligh Reef in the Prince William Sound. spilling approx­imately 225 thousand barrels into the ocean. 
In conjunction with the Alaskan Coast Guard and the 


Frazzled Brains 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Exxon used sev­eral methods to clean up the spill. In addition to skimming and physical washing, which accounted for the majority of the job, biological and chemical means were used. 
In alliance with the EPA, Exxon gained approval for the use of nutrients in the Prince William Sound. This biological solution included the utilization of lnipol EAP-22, a nutrient containing oleic acid, urea, and lauryl phosphate. Accounting for 15-20% of the clean-up, this was the largest bioremediation activity in history. 
Exxon also developed a chemical cleaner called Corexit 9580, "a balanced blend of nonionic surfactants in a puri­fied petroleum distillate," to treat oil stranded on shorelines. 
The chemical tackled the obsta­cle of meeting strict EPA stan­dards, such as low fish toxicity and prevention of oil dispersion in the water. 
However, despite laboratory success with this agent, the use of Corexit was not implemented for the Alaskan spill due to lack of approval from the EPA and Coast Guard. Instead, the chemical was placed on the EPA National Contingency Plan for future use. 
Bock concluded by noting the return of plant life and wildlife to the shorelines. "Recovery is well underway. Long term im­pacts should be minimal." 
The seminar was jointly sponsored by the department of biological sciences and the Cen­ter for Bioengineering and Pol­lution Control. 
TheObserver!EiisaKiosterman 


This energetic band, Frazzled Brains, tied for first place at the An Tostal Air Band!lipsync contest at Theodore's Tuesday, with a rendition of "If You Don't Like What You See: 
SMC 



BILL & TED"S 
The following is a statement issued Tuesday by University President Father Edward Malloy in response to a Monday letter from Students United for Respect (SUFR) accepting Malloy's plan to address the issues of cultural diversity.: 
am pleased and encouraged by your decision to accept the framework I offered for discussion and action on issues related to cultural diversity at the University of Notre Dame. This is the proposal I issued on Thursday, April 18, 1991 and which was published in its entirety in The Observer on April 19, 1991. 
With regard to the issue of recognition, I urge you to com­plete the process of securing recognition as soon as possi­ble. 
It is my intention to issue a letter to the University com­munity on issues related to cultural diversity at Notre Dame within a matter of days. This letter will indicate those areas where I believe we have attained significant advances in dealing with the issues which concern us. At the same time, it will signal in a straightforward way where serious problems subsist. 
My letter will also establish mechanisms that will lead to discussion and specific action directed at addressing the is­sues 'raised. I will consult widely with regard to the composition of the group 
SUFR 
continued from page 1 
nat response from Malloy still did not fully address SUFR's concerns. "It didn't say any­thing," Wilson said, "once again, the letter was very vague." 
Malloy's letter also stated that he will issue a letter to the University community that "will indicate those areas where I believe we have attained significant advances," in areas dealing with cultural diversity. The letter will also, Malloy said, "signal in a straightforward way where serious problems subsist." 
That letter is due to be drafted by the end of the week, according to information given by an administrative official to Student Body President Joseph Blanco. 
The framework for Malloy's plan includes group discussions involving administrators and members of SUFR. "Representation by some mem­bers of a recognized SUFR group, working with members representing other sectors of the University community, will be a welcome addition to these 



EXCELLENT ADVENTURE 
.,...

TONIGHT~· 
:·t·,

Apr-il 24 
Carrol Au(Jator1 um . 
g .& 11 p_m_ 
page 3 


Malloy issues response 
responsible for this dialogue and for recommending courses of action to me and to the other members of the administration. 
But, as is always the case in these matters. I will make the appointments after the consultative process is completed. All appointed participants in the resulting discussions will be members of the University community. 
Representation by some members of a recognized SUFR group, working with members representing other sectors of the University community, will be a welcome addition to these conversations leading to specific action. 
In their meeting with you on Wednesday. April 17, 1991, Dr. (Roland) Smith and Father (Richard) Warner presented the three points contained in the statement mentioned above, and told you that there would be no disciplinary reprisals, if the Registrar's Of­fice was cleared by 7 p.m. They stated that they were un­able to give you any assurances about academic ramifications of your actions. In fact, no disciplinary actions have been taken as a result of the demonstration Wednesday. 
I encourage you to follow through on your own determination to work with me and other members of the Notre Dame community on these crucial matters of common concern and I look forward to your participation. 
conversations leading to spe­cific action," the letter said. 
Malloy also stated that "no disciplinary actions" have been taken as a result of the sit-in staged by SUFR members last Wednesday in the Registrar's office. Part of SUFR's proposal expressly stated that the coali­tion not be punished academi­cally or otherwise for their par­ticipation in the demonstration. 
Although the events of the past week may have caused tension between the students and administration, Blanco said that he feels the ends will justify the means. "I think that eventually a lot of good will come out of this, and substan­tive issues will be addressed," he said. 
He added that the primary concern is, and will continue to be, communication between the administration and students. "I think that the administration now realizes that communica­tion is very important." he said. 
"With the events of last week behind us, I think that both sides realize that sharing the information is crucial to reach­ing solutions and that commu­nication needs to be improved so that we can make it to the next staj!e in solving these 
problems," sold Blenco. 
Admiss1 on $1 BiLLCJTe<ls fJ<CELLfNTa<fventwre 
~"' 'II!~.ID•I•!W."( li:ll4•'llltlbt~ A" OltiON PtcruRES ,q.._, 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, April 24, 1991 

Baker concludes discussions on Mideast peace conference 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) ­Nearing the end of his Mideast mission, Secretary of State James Baker III said Tuesday he had a "useful discussion" in lengthy talks with Syria's pres­ident but would not say whether agreement was closer on an Arab-Israeli peace con­ference. 
After nearly 10 hours of talks with Hafez Assad, Baker pre­pared for a quick side trip to the Soviet Union to talk to For­eign Minister Alexander Bess­mertnykh about cosponsoring the conference. 
In Washington, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwa­ter said Baker and Bessmert­nykh would discuss "the Middle East peace process, the situa­tion in the Persian Gulf and arms control." 
In Moscow, Vitaly Ignatenko, a spokesman for President Mikhail Gorbachev, said the two foreign ministers probably would also discuss plans for a Bush-Gorbachev summit meet­ing. He reiterated that the So­viet leader hopes for a June summit and said one would probably be held then, but Fitzwater said no date had been set. 
A tired-looking Baker, asked after his meeting with Assad whether he had made progress, said: "I hope we did. We'll see." 
He told reporters as he re­turned to his hotel room: "We had some useful discussion." 
Asked if the Syrians agreed, Baker said: ''I'm not going to speak for other countries." 
Assad may hold the key, on the Arab side, to whether the United States succeeds in pro­ducing negotiations to end the 43-year Arab-Israeli conflict and addressing the demands of 
1.7 million Palestinian Arabs who live under Israeli adminis­tration on the West Bank and in Gaza. 
The Syrians are determined to recover the Golan Heights from Israel, but Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, mindful of at­tacks on villages in northern Israel before the 1967 Six-Day war, is determined to hold on to the territory. 
Even though Assad drew close to President Bush by con­tributing troops for the war on Iraq, he is taking a cautious approach to Baker's peace mis­sion. 
So is Shamir, who has agreed in principle to negotiations with Arab states and Palestinians but only if outsiders do not in­terfere and if the Palestine Lib­eration Organization is kept from influencing the outcome. 
Baker telephoned Shamir to tell him their meeting in Jerusalem would be put off un­til Friday. He gave the prime minister an account of his meetings earlier this week with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. 
Mubarak endorsed the peace conference even though the format and agenda remain un­clear. Fahd said Saudi Arabia would not negotiate with Israel. But Prince Saud, his foreign minister, endorsed the U.S. ef­fort and said he hoped it would benefit the Palestinians. 
Baker will fly to Kislovodsk, which is at the foothills of the Caucasus Mountains near the Black Sea on Wednesday and meet with Bessmertnykh on Thursday. 
Apart from the Middle East, their agenda is likely to include the U.S.-Soviet summit meeting and two arms control treaties -one signed but stalled and the other unfinished. 

Arafat calls for Iraq, Arab nations to defy United Nations order to destroy weapons 
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP) -PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat said Tuesday that Arab countries should help Iraq defy the U.N. Security Council order to de­stroy its weapons of mass de­struction, as ordered in the Gulf War cease-fire accord. 
"These countries should in­tervene with the U.N. Security Council to place non-conven­tional Iraqi arms under inter­national control, until Israel agrees to completely destroy its own weapons of the same na­ture," Arafat was quoted as saying at a meeting of the PLO's Central Council. 
The formal cease-fire ap­proved by the Security Council, which Baghdad accepted, orders Iraq to destroy all its nuclear, chemical and biological 

, weapons and long-range Scud missiles. 
Israel is widely believed to possess nuclear missiles but has never officially acknowledged having them. 
The 95-member Central Council, a mid-level PLO deci­sion-making body, is holding its first meeting since the Gulf War. 
Arafat's pro-Iraqi stand in the Gulf War cost the PLO financial backing from wealthy Arab states and tarnished his image in the West. 
However, there are no signs he has lost his power within the PLO. Monday night, Arafat also was able to secure a meeting in Tripoli, Libya, with French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas -his first meeting with a senior Western official since the war. 
The European Community has decided to freeze relations with the PLO, but a French Foreign Ministry spokesman in Paris said Dumas felt it was useful for France to meet with a leader whom other Western nations shun. 
Arafat met earlier Monday with Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz during an unan­nounced visit to Tunis. 
Dumas, in Cairo on Tuesday, said Arafat seemed to be open to Baker's peace plan, "but he is anxious that the core subjects are not ignored." 
Dumas said Arafat wants in­ternational recognition of the Palestinian right to self-deter­mination, the implementation of the U.N. Security Council resolutions calling for Israeli withdrawal from Arab territo­ries and the "authentic repre­sentation" of Palestinians in the negotiations. 
Palestinian sources said that the Central Council was work­ing on a declaration reiterating the PLO's long-held view that only an international confer­ence can bring peace to the Middle East. 
The PLO will restate its de­termination to participate in such a conference to create a Palestinian state in the Israeli­occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, the sources said. 
Israel refuses PLO participa­tion in such a conference. The Jewish state regards the PLO as a terrorist organization and refuses to negotiate with it. 



Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. HOURS: J:OO P,M. to 4:30P.M. Monday-friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSTORE 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

Camels hanging out 
Students take a break from their everyday routines to pet a camel on North Quad yesterday in celebration of An Tostal. 
ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage 

Reserve Your Space Now! 

NQ Administration Fee 
NO Deposits 
NQ Increased Rents for Students 
NQ Worries about Break­Ins While on Vacations 
80-90 'foil Ito~ 

YES_Security System YES On Site Manager .YES Free Locks for 
Students YES Low Prices YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 
North Side of 
Dougl&a Rd. Betwaen Grape Rd. 111111 St. Rd. 23 



Wednesday, April 24, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Specialist urges people Naming of rape victim spurs to depend on natural high 

protest at national tabloid 
gins to regain balance,n said 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
People must depend more on natural highs than on highs created by drugs in order to improve the quality of their lives. according to George Obermeier, a specialist in stu­dent assistance programming and education. 
"I can get as high as anyone in this room without using a drug," said Obermeier. an asso­ciate consultant with Associates of Island Heights in his lecture on natural highs held Tuesday night as part of the Alcohol Education Series. 
In the lecture, sponsored by the Saint Mary's Wellness Pro­gram, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's student government and Andrews Uni­versity, he promised everyone in the room that they would leave feeling a little "higher" if they were willing to take the risks. 
"If ptwple knew they could get 'buzzt~d' by attending a lecture. we probably would have had people standing in the hall." said Obermeier. lie stated that the problem with the word "high," is that everyone associ­ates the term with drug highs. Anytime you make yourself feel bntt1~r and can interpret the re­sponst~ as phmsurable, you have madfl yourself high. 
"W1~ havP. a natural drive to rnah oursP.Ives feel good," he continued. Changes in how we feel n~quire a corresponding hiorhnrnir.al change. If we can learn to eontrol these changes, we can control our "highs and lows." According to Obermeier, lt~arning to rmnain high more often. and dip low less often requires bP.havioral changes and risks. 
"With a drug high we can get high, but our body hits much morfl intP.nse lows when it be-Obermeier. 
Natural highs work in the op­posite way of drug highs; in a drug high a tolerance is built up with continued use of the drug, he said. Larger quantities are needed to create a high of the original magnitude for a shorter duration of time. Ac­cording to Obermeier, once we learn how to create a natural high, we can increase the mag­nitude and the duration of the high. 
"Different people like different sensations," said Obermeier, "but there are some common experiences that can make ev­eryone high. n 
Laughter is one of the great­est natural highs, he said. It, along with crying, are the body's two natural ways of re­lieving tension. "If you can't cry, then you should be laugh­ing a hundred times more than the person who allows himself to cry, " said Obermeier. 
Natural highs can also be ex­perienced through anticipation and vicarious participation, he continued. When you anticipate an event, you raise your energy level and create a high when the event actually occurs. 
"Have you ever seen someone run to the phone when they're anticipating a call?" asked Obermeier. "It's almost as if their feet don't touch the ground when they run to an­swer the phone. 
n 

People have learned to block out their feelings, creating an obstacle to gaining a natural high. As people age, "they get so good at blocking their feel­ings, they don't even realize they arfl doing it anymore," said Obermeier. "To feel high, one must learn to reassess these feelings." 
"You'll learn to be a much happier person," said Ober­meier. if you ean laugh, ery and learn what events make you naturally high. 
Carriage House Dining Room: Just for Notre-Dame graduation weekend the Carriage House Dining Room will open at 5:00 PM Sunday May 19th. 
Taking reservations now. Call Evelen George 272-9220 

The Alumni-Senior Club is currently accepting applications for 
1991-92 DISC JOCKEY 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Applications due by Friday, April 26 
BOCA RATON, Fla. (AP)­Feminists on Tuesday picketed a supermarket tabloid that was the first newspaper in the na­tion to identify the woman who says she was raped on the Kennedy estate. 
"We wanted to draw attention to the fact that we deplore the position of The Globe," said Suzanne Jacobs, president of the south Palm Beach County chapter of National Organiza­tion for Women. 
Other news organizations NBC News and The New York Times, among other news or­ganizations, also have identified the woman who said she had been raped March 30 by William Kennedy Smith. 
No charges have been filed, and Smith, nephew of Sen. Ed­ward Kennedy, D-Mass., has denied any wrongdoing. 
The identification of the woman has prompted a na­tional debate over whether the news media should identify rape victims. Proponents say it would bring the crime into the open, but opponents say it will discourage victims from coming forward. 
David Bludworth, the Palm Beach County state attorney, has asked a court for a judg­ment on whether he can prose­cute news organizations for identifying the woman. 
A 1911 Florida statute makes identifying a rape victim a sec­ond-degree criminal misde­meanor. 
On Tuesday, a retired Chicago lawyer filed a handwritten legal brief urging the judge to dis­miss Bludworth's petition for a judgment. 
Sidney Baker, who now lives in nearby Lake Worth, argued that Bludworth didn't follow correct procedure. He said Bludworth should have filed an action to prosecute The Globe for printing the woman's name. 
Then, he said, the newspaper could have elected to file a mo­tion to dismiss the action on the grounds that the Florida law violates the First Amendment right to freedom of speech. 
At this point, Baker wrote, the court would either uphold the statute and allow the pros­ecution, or dismiss it. 
Bludworth has said he wanted to see a legal debate on the statute and wanted a judge's ruling before he decided how to proceed. 
Circuit Judge Richard Burk has set an April 30 deadline for legal briefs. Bludworth plans to file his later this week. 
The prosecutor also said it may be three more weeks be­fore a decision is made on criminal charges in the case. 
Attorneys for The Globe didn't return two telephone calls Tuesday. 
Globe editor Wendy Henry met with Jacobs and two of the 14 protesters. 
According to Jacobs, Henry said using the woman's name was a way of demystifying rape. 

---·----------, 
Yourlast chance 




for extra credit 

beforegraduation 

All you have to do is take afield trip to our dealership and show us your student J.D., drivers license and proof of a jOb ~r graduation. Chances are.. you'~ b~ eligible for up to 60 monthS financing on any new N1ssan. With no money down and no payments for 90 days . 
Now, this extra credit can't improve yourgrades. But It can • certainlyget you out of school in ahurry. 
No moneydown. Nopaymentsfor 90days. 



tit~! 
~ 

2500 W. Lexington Ave. 15 minutes from campus 
"On the Bypass at 3 points" Call Tom Naquin, N.D. Class of 76 
ELKART toll free 674-6059 
One dies in bomb scare 
ARABI, La. (AP) -A 71-year­old woman was killed when her car was hit by a fire truck racing to a bomb threat at a school that turned out to be a hoax, au­thorities said. 
Yvonne Bowers of Chalmette was killed when the fire engine smashed into her car at an inter­section. 
Bowers did not have a stop light or sign, but the fire truck was traveling with its emergency lights flashing and sirens blar­ing, St. Bernard Parish Fire Chief Thomas Stone said. 
"We have responded In this parish on several times and have found bombs in different loca­tions, so you can't take a chance," he said. 
The crew on the truck and an accompanying paramedic team tried to save Bowers, but failed. 
The bomb threat was called in to Arabi Park Middle School, said Superintendent of Schools Daniel Daste. 
Sherlfrs deputies searched the school and no bomb was found. 
-------------~--------------------~----------------------------------------~--------------, 
pageS The Observer 
Pentagon awards contracts for planes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Pentagon on Tuesday picked a team led by the Lockheed Corp. to receive a $12.1 billion devel­opment contract for a fighter jet that Air Force Secretary Donald 
B. Rice said "will assure American air superiority well into the next century." 
Pratt & Whitney was awarded the initial contract for engines for the 650 Advanced Tactical Fighter planes, which the Air Force estimated would cost $95 billion by the time all of them are delivered, starting in the year 2005. Already questions have been raised in Congress about the necessity for the plane, and whether the true cost will far exceed that estimate. 
. 
Rice made his dramatic an­nouncement at a news confer­ence after stock markets had closed, climaxing a 54-month competition for the high-stakes initial contract. The General Dynamics Corp. and Boeing Co., making its re-entry into fighter production after more than 50 years, are Lockheed's principal partners on the winning team. 
The big losers were the Northrop Corp. and the McDonnell Douglas Corp., who had teamed up to offer an alter­native design for the stealthy, supersonic twin-engine jet. Unlike their competition, both those companies have staked much of their future on building military aircraft, and the ATF contract, the richest ever awarded, is likely to be the major piece of business on that score for a generation. 
General Electric was the loser on the engine contract, which could be worth $2.4 billion to United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt & Whitney unit over the next decade and could generate $12 billion for 1,750 engines, including 450 spares, over the life of the program. 
"I would not describe it as a split decision." Rice said of his overall choices, though he de­clined to go into detail on his reasons for making them. 
The ATF is designed to replace McDonnell Douglas' F­15, the star of the Persian Gulf War. 
"The Air Force's F-15s are outstanding aircraft, and they swept the skies in Desert Storm," Rice said. "However, when the ATF is first deployed, the F-15s will be over 25 years old ... thus, the ATF will ensure American air superiority well into the next century." 
Rice said his decision "was fi­nally made in my mind" the previous night. 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 
Gulf oil smugglers convicted 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP)-Three people were convicted Tuesday of attempting to violate a presidential order by smuggling 1 million barrels of oil worth $21 million out of Iraq. The three were convicted by a federal jury of two counts of conspiring to deal in Iraqi crude oil, despite a United Nations and U.S. embargo halting Iraq's oil exports following its invasion of 
Kuwait in August. "Our national security depends on the enforcement of executive orders under the International Emergency Powers Act," U.S. Attorney Robert Genzman said Tuesday. "Motivated by huge profits, embargo violators aid our adversaries at the expense of our national security." Convicted were Manuel Romero-Fernandez, 50, of Malaga, Spain; Ondina Maria Sosa, 54, of Miami; and Augustus Wolf Von Hartz, 74, of Key Biscayne. Genzman said the three each face a maximum sentence of 17 years in prison and a fine of at least $1 million. A fourth person, Manuel Olivares-Heredia, 50, also of Malaga, was acquitted by a judge last week for lack of evidence. 


'Distraught' man launches car into house 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman

long sundae 
This 500 foot sundae was devoured by hungry students on South Quad yesterday as part of An Tostal. They had to eat quickly be­fore afternoon thunderstorms hit. 


Man awarded damages after wife, son die of AIDS 
BOSTON (AP) --A judge awarded more than $2.7 mil­lion dollars in damages Tues­day to a Marine whose wife and son died after she was given an AIDS-tainted blood transfusion at a Navy hospital. 
The judgment ended the sec­ond phase of a non-jury trial in a lawsuit filed by Chief Warrant Officer Martin Gaffney, who tested positive for the AIDS virus. 
"They just awarded more money than I ever would have seen in my lifetime," said Gaffney, 42, a computer spe­cialist at the South Weymouth Naval Air Station. 
Last year, U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel found that doctors at the Long Beach, Calif .. Naval Hospital were negligent and awarded Gaffney $750,000 in emotional damages. She ruled that if a Caesarean section had been performed in time on Gaffney's wife, Mutsuko, a transfusion would not have Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Elizabeth Carmody said it was hard to determine when Gaffney would no. longer be able to work because of his dis­ease. 
"He has no present physical disability," Carmody said. "Even if he gets AIDS, it's not reasonably certain he's going to be disabled at that date." 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP)-A distraught Fort Wayne man who had been jilted by his girl­friend was critically injured Tuesday when he launched his car from a soap box derby ramp at high speed and crashed into the side of a house, police said. 
Steven Wysong, 20, was re­ported in critical but stable condition at the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
Sgt. Lynn Armstrong of the Fort Wayne Police Department said Wysong was travelling about 90 mph when his car went off a ramp on top of a hill at Franke Park. 
The car crashed through a pool deck at the home of Bret and Amy Angel, striking the house just to the right of their bedroom window. They were not injured. 
Following the crash, police found a suicide note at Wysong's home. A letter from the girlfriend was found in the car, police said. 

American+

Red Cross 

In calculating the damage award, the judge said she 
agreed with arguments that Gaffney would have continued an upward career path had he not contracted the AIDS virus. 







MONEY NOW, 
Mrs. Gaffney underwent a Caesarean in 1981 when she was two weeks late delivering the baby. The baby, a boy, was stillborn. 

PAY LATER 
She was given a transfusion tainted with the AIDS virus. The couple later had another son, but he died of AIDS 13 

Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the 
months later. Mrs. Gaffney died of AIDS in 1987. 

loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring 
been necessary. ,.....-----.., 
Testimony in the second phase of the trial in Boston federal court focused on eco­nomic damages. Gaffney's 7­year-old daughter, Maureene, has tested negative for th AIDS virus. and Gaffney ha said he filed his $55 millio lawsuit against the Navy provide for her. 
Attorneys for the government had proposed a $1.5 milli settlement. During the trial 

Work up ro 6 months on Britain. Ireland, France. Germany. Jam~ica, Nw Zealand. and Costa RICa. Council s Work Abroad Pro­gram. lhe only ,one of irs kind in !he Us cuts lhrough all rhe red rape• 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs. drscount a" fares, language courses, and 
more. 
Council on lnt'l Educational Exchange 
(U.S. Sponsor of the ln/'1 Student 1.0. Card) 
your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH· 13.25o/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check!

[@ RELOCATION· 9.1 o/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Sepatale from IIMI Unfv!_~ 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Leaders debate school financing 
WASJIINGTON (AP) -Edu­cation Secretary Lamar Alexander defended President Bush's proposal Tuesday to provide financial aid to parents who send their children to pri­vate schools, saying there is a need to redefine public schools. 
''I'm working on a definition of a public school right now," Alexander told the Senate La­bor and Human Resources Committee. "Today a public school is a school run by a school district. 
"A public school ought to be a school with a public purpose, with set goals shared by the public (andl aecountability to some public ageney," he said 
That definition, he said, could embraen a private school that attracts a large percentage of low-ineomo students from tra­ditional public sehools. 
Alexandor ar.knowledged that panmtal choice is the "most di­visive" of the president's nine­YI~ar "America 2000" plan to improve public schools. 
"Tho administration's pro­posal goes overboard on choke." said Committee Chair­man Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. "By offering public dollars to private schools, including reli­gious schools, the administra­tion is reopening the bitter and divisive polir.y and constitu­tional debates of the past about public aid to private schools." 
Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, H­Kan., said choice will increase costs for transportation, espe­cially if a large numb1~r of chit­dren decide to attend schools 
outside their districts. 
"If we start putting dollars in, it could grow and grow and grow. We need to be careful how that money is targeted," she said. 
Alexander said states and lo­cal districts would have to de­cide what choice programs to enact and Congress would have to decide who to provide finan­cial aid. 
"Our idea would be simply to say that we would like for the federal money to follow the . child as much as possible. within whatever the local school district decides it wants to do about choice of schools and within whatever the Supreme Court says is constitu­tional and follows the First Amendment" to the U.S. Consti­tution. 
The amendment forbids an "establishment of religion," and courts have interpreted that to forbid government aid to schools run by churches. 
Alexander submitted a revi­sion of the president's 1992 budget request for the Educa­tion Department. The adminis­tration is asking for $200 mil­lion to school districts to offer parents more choices in select­ing schools. 
The administration also pro­posed changes in federal fi­naneing of remedial educa­tional services to disadvantaged children. Bush and Alexander want to make the money "follow the children," so that parents would be better able to pay tuition at a private school. 

AP Photo 

Abortion clinic firebombed 
An examination room at the Medical Care Center of Woodbridge, N.J., an abortion clinic, was damaged by an arson fire at the building on Monday. An accelerant was used to start the blaze at the medical facility where daily anti-abortion protests have taken place. 
Bank owner convicted for role in failure; 'the crime of the century' triggered crisis 
of the collapse. 
Ruehlman said he received a telephone call from a woman who identified herself as Mary Jacobs, an 85-year-old who had entrusted her life savings to Home State. He said she nearly died of pneumonia from stand­ing outside a bank branch waiting to get her deposits. 
"She is one of the persons victimized by your greed, Mr. Warner. She gave you her sav­ings and all of a sudden, it was gone," Huehlman said of Warner's role in the fall of his thrift. 
"I refer to it really as the crime of the century for this community," he said. 
Warner did not speak to re­porters, but aides distributed a one-page statement that re­counted his civic and business contributions to the state and to Cincinnati. It also said he never was warned of problems at his thrift. 
"I regret with every fiber of my being the closing of my bank and the suffering it caused our trusting deposi­tors," Warner's statement said. "The trust I had in that bank was such that I was its largest depositor as of the time of its closing." 
Warner was convicted of unauthorized transfers of Home State funds to ESM Government Securities Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ESM's March 1985 collapse cost Home State $144 million and prompted its failure four days later. 
An appeals court overturned the convictions of Warner and former Home State President David Schiebel in November 1989, but the Ohio Supreme Court last October reversed the appeals court and reinstated the convictions. 
His lawyers had argued for a delay in the jail term earlier this week on grounds he was being treated for an enlarged prostate gland and may need surgery. But the judge said Warner could receive medical treatment in prison. 
Besides his prison time, Warner has also been ordered to pay $250.000 in prosecution costs to the statP. and make restitution of at least $12.2 mil­lion. 

The thrift's 1985 downfall 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The triggered a crisis among Ohio's former owner of Home State 69 privately insured savings Savings Bank was led to jail and loans, forcing former Gov. Tuesday after a judge blamed Richard Celeste to close them him for committing "the crime until they obtained federal de­of the century in this commu­posit insurance. nity." "We had to bail this institu­
Marvin Warner sat impas­tion out, and you're down on sively during Judge Robert your horse farm roaming free," Ruehlman's 10-minute scolding. Huehlman said. Then a deputy sheriff was Warner, a former U.S. am­ordered to cuff the 71-year-old bassador to Switzerland, was millionaire and take him off to convicted of state securities vio­serve his 3 1/2-year prison sen­lations and unauthorized trans­tence. fers of Home State money in 
'Think of how many people 1987-. lost faith in the savings system. In court, Ruehlman asked ... Think of all the poor souls any Home State depositors to and their suffering in this," stand and tell of the hardships Huehlman told Warner, who the collapse had caused them. was convicted in 1987 for his Three said they wanted Warner role in Home State's collapse. to suffer as others had because 
Juniors... Remember the JPW SLIDE SHOW? 
If you missed it the first time-because of Brunch Nosebleed Seats or if you just loved it so much that you want to see it again 
Come to: 
LAFORTUNE MONTGOMERY THEATER TODAT AT 
9:30 -10:00 p.m. 
HOOSES FOR REtiT ~~~ ~ 1991-1992 SCHOOL YEAR ~ 
~ 
WHSHERS &DRYERS I NEHPENS I UE 5 RND 6 BEDROOMS SECURITY SYSTEMS 2 HOUSES L.EFT CLOSE TO CRMPUS 
CRLL FL VNN'S RENTRLS 289-6621 

Buy this space and say "CONGRATULATIONS" to someone in the May 17 Graduation Issue of The Observer. 
For more information, call The Observer office at 239-6900 or visit the 3rd Floor of La Fortune and at St. Mary's, 3rd Floor of Haggar. (Photos will be accepted) 

LOOKING FOR SOMETHING DIFFERENT NEXT SEMESTER? 



S.T.V. 
CHECK IT OUT! 

ELECTIVE COURSES 
CONCENTRATION PROGRAM 
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS & PROGRAM INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN 
309 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
Notre Dame's Interdisciplinary Program in Science, Technology, and Values 

page 8 




Police get power to act on 'hunch' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An in­creasingly conservative Supreme Court gave police sig­nificant new power Tuesday to chase and apprehend people when officers have a hunch a crime was committed. 
By a 7-2 vote, the justices re­instated the drug-possession conviction of a young California man identified as Hodari D., who fled at the sight of police and dropped crack cocaine during the chase. 
The court ruled that the co­caine may be used as evidence because he had not been "seized" by police at the time he dropped the drug. 
The Constitution's Fourth Amendment, which protects against unreasonable searches and seizures, does not apply until an individual has been physically restrained or submits to police authority, Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the court. 
Justice John Paul Stevens, in a strongly worded dissent, said the ruling could "encourage unlawful displays of (police) force that will frighten count­less innocent citizens into sur­rendering whatever privacy rights they may still have." Jus­tice Thurgood Marshall joined Stevens' dissent. 
But Scalia said, "Street pur­suits always place the public at some risk, and compliance with police orders to stop should therefore be encouraged." 
James Lozenski, the Berkeley, Calif., lawyer who represented Hodari D., said, "It's a very sad day for civil rights in this coun­try." He said the ruling gives police "an awful amount of au­thority to harass people." 
In another decision, the court unanimously upheld a federal labor rule requiring hospitals to let their employees organize into eight se·parate collective bargaining units, according to their jobs. 
The rule adopted by the Na­tional Labor Relations Board in 1989 applies to more than 4,000 acute-care hospitals na­tionwide. 
The police-chase ruling is the latest in a series of decisions bolstering police powers and limiting the rights of criminal suspects and defendants. 

Quake 
continued from page 1 
eligible for government aid. 
The government Civil Protec­tion Agency said a preliminary survey showed at least 29 peo­ple died from the earthquake in Bocas del Toro, 300 were in­jured and about 730 homes were destroyed. 
Radio reports said freight cars derailed, blocking railroad access to an area normally reachable only by rail, air and sea. The Pan American High­way linking Costa Rica to Panama reportedly was cut by damage to a bridge. 
Capt. Eduardo Sanchez of the Red Cross said by telephone from Puerto Limon that the death toll was still rising. He said about 400 homes and other buildings were reported destroyed. 
On the port's outskirts, a ga­soline tank exploded, sending up a huge fireball at a govern­ment-owned refinery, the fire 

A week ago the court nar­rowed the right of death row inmates to make repeated ap­peals in federal court, a ruling that could hasten many execu­tions. 
Last month the justices veered dramatically from pre­vious holdings when they said defendants whose coerced con­fessions were used improperly as evidence are not automati­cally entitled to new trials. 
Justice David Souter's ap­pointment to the court appears to have solidified the conserva­tive majority in deciding crimi­nal law cases. Souter, who re­placed liberal Justice William Brennan, joined the majority in Tuesday's ruling and the two other recent decisions. 
An Oakland policeman chased Hodari D. in 1988 when the young man and several com­panions fled after spotting the police in what Scalia described as a high-crime area of the city. 
The officer, Jerry Pertoso, took a circuitous route around the block that brought him al­most face-to-face with Hodari D. 
The young man, who had been looking over his shoulder, dropped the cocaine rock after turning around to find Pertoso about 11 feet away and bearing down on him. 
Hodari D., now 19, was sen­tenced to a camp for juvenile offenders for five years and eight months for possessing cocaine with intent to sell. A state appeals court threw out his conviction, ruling the co­caine may not be used as evi­dence. 
The young man served six months before being freed on probation, his lawyer said. 
The Fourth Amendment gen­erally requires police, when they lack a search warrant, to have at least a "reasonable suspicion" of a crime before seizing someone. 
Pertoso and his partner con­ceded that they lacked any hard evidence Hodari D. and the others were engaged in a drug deal. 
But Sc-alia said Hodari D.'s rights were not violated be­cause he dropped the cocaine several seconds before he was tackled by Pertoso and actually seized. 
department said. 
Orozco, the Red Cross spokesman, said hundreds of villagers were given shelter in soccer stadiums. 
San Jose also suffered exten­sive damage, but there were no reports of deaths. The quake knocked out power for about four hours. 
Windows shattered, light fix­tures crashed to the floor, and residents fled into the streets 


The Observer Wednesday, April 24, 1991 

AP Photo 
Burning oil wells 
A Kuwaiti man steps down from a berm Monday after taking a look at one of the oil wells which was set ablaze by the withdrawing Iraqi army during the occupation of Kuwait. About 500 wells are still burning in the northern and southern oil fields of Kuwait. 
Mysterious vapor at Air Force nuclear silo results in evacuations and public concern 
SAWYER, N.D. (AP) -Air Force technicians worked Tuesday to identify a mysteri­ous vapor at an underground nuclear missile silo that forced 24 people to leave their homes. 
"In all the years we've been around, we've never had a situ­ation like this, when somebody came around and said, 'Hey, you'd better move,"' Robert Bohlender said. "It scares the heck out of you." 
Bohlender and his wife Lau­rene were among 24 people from three farms within a 2­mile radius of the Minuteman III silo who were advised to leave their homes Monday night. 
for safety. The National The­ater, the Culture Building and a three-story folk art museum were all severely damaged. 
Mike McLellan, 22, of Mon­treal, vacationing with his brother Eric, 20, was in the capital when the quake hit. 
"It was like surfing on as­phalt," he said. "People were screaming. Ladies were pray­ing. There were waves in the street." 
G and Slush are 21 ... at least that's what their ID's say! 
~ 

~ Always, WET 
Air Force crews discovered the vapor about 8 p.m., during a routine check of the silo. 
Preliminary tests Tuesday found nothing harmful but fur­ther tests were under way, said an Air Force spokesman, Tech. Sgt. John Esser. 
"We're going to find out, if there was any contamination, what it was," Esser said. "There are vapors in the air, we just don't know what they're comprised of." 
Citing longstanding policy, the Air Force would not disclose whether the missile was armed. The 60-foot, 78,000-pound Minuteman can carry three warheads. 
Early speculation was that 
water may have seeped into the silo, somehow creating a vapor that had nothing to do with the missile itself, said 1st Lt. Darian Benson. 
The silo is in north-central North Dakota about 10 miles south of Sawyer, a town of 400 near Minot Air Force Base. Three hundred intercontinental ballistic missiles are dug into the North Dakota landscape, more than in any other state. 
"We've had these missiles around these farms for as long as I can remember," Bohlender said. "They're just part of our lives. 
"This is our home," he said. "I guess it's no different than if something happens in a major r:ity." 
Why take your winter 

clothes home for ........_:..._.......~ ..... the swnmer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proofvault all summer and ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
+ 
low cost storage + No payment until Fall 

+ 
Protection from • More closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 


Two Locations Near Campus! 
207 us 31 Iacross from Bob Evans) 
272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next to Martin' •) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 





----_w=-e~d~n_e~sd~a~y_.~A_pr~il~2 4~, _1_9_-9:1_-_-_-_--:-:--~-----::----_-:_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-__-_-;;;;;;;;;;:;;;T;;;;;h;;e;;;O;;;;b;;;;;s;;;;e:;;rv;;e;;;;r;;_;;;_;;-;_";_;;;~~-~~~~~~~~;;-;;,_;;_;;;;-~;;;;;~~;;;--:;-_-;_-===;:;:::::;;:::=;;;:;;;::::::::pa::-g::-;;e;-9::---l
7 


Contaminated soil target of environmentalist protest 
SUMTEH, S.C. (APl -A trainload of contaminated soil already rejected by six states may finally b1~ on its way to an acceptable dump, but the ship­per is not about to reveal where. 
The CSX Transportation Co. train which sat in a rail yard near Sumter for nearly two weeks has been a target of protests by environmental groups and a source of concern for the state Department of llealth and Environmental Con­trol. 
The soil, contaminated by an aeid, came from the site of a train wreck in Michigan. It was to have been buried at a landfill in Ohio but was driven out by protests and CSX has since hauled it through West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and the Carolinas. 

The 32-car train left Sumter on Monday and by Tuesday morning was outside the state, said CSX Transportation spokesman Norm Going. 
"It's long gone from South Carolina," Going said. "The train does have a destination to a landfill that will accept it. It's not just headed to nowhere." 
The company refused to dis­close the destination. 
On Monday, three Greenpeace activists locked themselves to the train while three more climbed atop a car with a ban­ner. All six were charged with trespassing and were released on $237 bond each. 

American ExpressAnnouncesA Great New Travel Program. 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Express• Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on ·lH conuguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no hlackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Card membership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa­tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. just call us (have your bank 
Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
just look at the map and pick the place youti like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit lf it's on your side ofthe Mississippi River, you Carel now whJe you're still in school than it may can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
TRAVEL RELATED 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
SERVK:ES CONTINENTAL 
~ tfynu ·,,. alrt'(/{/r a Cardmembl'r, tbl!n/s 110 lll!l!cl to uJII 111/(,rmatlu>l about your wrtificatl!s U'i/1 be arril'iiiR sou11 

Compltlr ~rrmsand condluons olrhtS rravtl ofrr wlllarrlvr,;;rh your wu6carrs ConriMnlll Alrllnn alonr 15 rnponslblt ror lullll11t111 olrhil..., Allltfinn F.•prnsaSJumn no lllbllllyflt~ AIJha· ,.,.._. 
Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, April 24, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••..•.............•••• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor........•..•.•.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••.•••....••.David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor.••.•..•..•......... John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
11 WQ.L, AT Lf.AST Wt'Rf RJ[Ia: TI-l~ VIITNAM 9/N~ ..... '' 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the recent article on the Turtle Creek apartment complex (The Observer, April 12). I was as­tonished at the amount of inac­curate and misleading infor­mation provided in this article. I would like to make several points regarding the real situa­tion at Turtle Creek. 
To begin with, the article claimed that monthly rates ranged from $375 to $515. This is grossly inaccurate as two of my neighbors pay $560 and $700 respectively for their townhouses. Turtle Creek has only provided information re­garding 12-month leases, which 
Jhey are well aware are not in line with the needs of students. Turtle Creek provides nine month rates, but they raise the rates exorbitantly to take ad­vantage of the students. 
Turtle Creek charges in the range of $140 extra for a third student in these townhouses. This is once again a situation of taking advantage of the stu­dents. Turtle Creek knows that many students will be seeking housing and therefore they at­tempt to overcharge them. It is unheard of for an apartment complex to charge per person! Turtle Creek takes further steps to insure themselves of filling all the units by limiting the number of students allowed to live in each unit. In a spacious two­bedroom apartment like mine, Turtle Creek restricts you to only. two residents. These apartments very easily could accommodate four or more students but, once again, this would threaten Turtle Creek's 
DOONESBURY 
THt UNIT 010 6()(J), R4Y. YOU'/) HAVfJ Bef3N PRO()f). WI? 1</U&/? TIWK5 CMI< A Mlt/3 ANf?A HAlFAWAY, ATNIGHT-TANKS THAT NWeR. SAWU5! 
AU 7H&8UIW-UP, IT ~A MAJOR HIGH.' 

chances of filling all units. 
The article went on to claim that repair service was excel­lent through the "24-hour bot­line." Neither I, nor any of my neighbors, have ever heard of stories like those mentioned in the article referring to "quick and dependable" service. Two neighbors were promised im­mediate repairs to their bath­rooms the week they moved in back in August, and they are still waiting! I had a window missing for eight weeks. It was only after my fifth visit to the office that something was done about the problem. I also had a water pressure problem in August. Four visits by mainte­nance and five months later, the problem was fixed. I have heard numerous other horror stories. 
A third falsity of the article was its inference of safety in the complex. Several units have been broken into, and there have been many bike thefts. I have managed to discover these incidents through word of mouth. You would think that management would be respon­sible enough to inform other residents when such events oc­cur, but they prefer to give us crucial "recipes of the month" in the monthly newsletter in­stead! 
These newsletters are merely chances for management to remind us of the $25 fine for rent being even one day late, and the ridiculous $50 charge for students who get locked out of their apartments after 6 p.m. A better name for these letters would be "restriction re­minders." 
The final point I would like to 

FOR A WHitt, ANYPJ4'15. 7HtN TH& EN31N/ZR."3 5TARIWaMIN6l!ACA< ANf? 7l!UIN6 U5 ABa.!T TH8 THOU­S4Nf?5 OF8(){)1?3 7HettutnWRt!NG WITH 8Uuroz&RS. 7HOU5AN{)5f IWNNO,IT /115
'-.. FIZ/... 

address is the manager's claim that parties are allowed. When we sign the lease, we are told that parties are not allowed. If the office receives a noise com­plaint about a party, they au­tomatically mail out a letter to the Office of Student Affairs at Notre Dame as well as mailing letters out to the parents of all the residents of the apartment. 
Management fails to investi­gate and substantiate their claims before they take these actions. Students are not even informed that Notre Dame has been brought into the issue. I have seen drastic abuses of this policy by management. After one "party," Turtle Creek at­tempted to charge the residents for damage to the apartment which had occurred before these residents had even lived there. This is just an example of Turtle Creek's poor and con­descending attitude towards students. 
There are numerous other problems with Turtle Creek; such as unfair lease agree­ments, the decision to close the pool on a 96-degree day and poor plowing of the parking lot, but space restriction will force me to hold back on these stories. I would just like to make it clear to students that Turtle Creek would be a poor choice for off-campus housing as the only interest of this management is to take advan­tage of and exploit students' needs. I would encourage any­one with further questions to feel free to call me. 
Paul Galamaga Off-Campus April17, 1991 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to bring to light the woefully inadequate infirmary policy regarding the treatment of non-students on the campus of Notre Dame. 
On Wednesday, April 17, we hosted. a prospective student. While showing him around campus, the four of us played three games of basketball against several Cavanaugh stu­dents. Toward the end of the third game, the prospective's finger was broken after an er­rant pass. 
We immediately took him to the infirmary. We considered telling the nurse on duty that he was a student, but declined to do so for honesty's sake. When we mentioned that the injured party was not a current Notre Dame student, the nurse on duty refuse him medical atten­tion. She claimed that "the person who does that is on the phone." We were not even of­fered an ice pack to reduce the swelling and pain to the finger. Instead, we were told that we would have to take him to a hospital. 
We are outraged that the University sees him as impor­tant enough to pay tuition for four years, but not important enough to receive emergency medical care. As far as we are concerned, a prospective stu­dent should be considered a University student if he is in-
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
jured on campus while accom­panied by Notre Dame students. Thankfully, we were able to get our friend to the hospital, and he was not seriously hurt. 
This raises another question. What would have happened if he had been critically injured? Would the infirmary have denied him medical attention, and allowed him to suffer permanent injury and trauma for the sake of University pol­icy? 
We were under the impres­sion that a Catholic should "not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it" (Proverbs 3:27). Why was our friend not helped? Because of foolish consideration about insurance? 
We collectively feel that the university is misguided in their insistence on adhering to this grossly insensitive policy. Had this been a more serious injury. the University might have suf­fered an unnecessary lawsuit. Luckily, our friend is healthy, but we think that the infir­mary's treatment of prospective students is substandard and should be reevaluated. Hopefully, this event will not af­fect the student's opinion of the University of Notre Dame. 
Christopher Allan Brent Humphries Matthew C. Miller Carroll Hall April19, 1991 
H&Y, HeAR 
A80UTNANCI RE/16AN ANI? 5/NA7RA? 
I 
'To go beyond is as wrong as to fall short.' 
Confucius 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
.....-~-----~-------­
----------------~------------­
-
Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
University's rejection of gays/lesbians called wrong 
Dear Editor:  one's friends, pretending to be  resources or energy to even  deem illicit sexual activities  GLND/SMC met with Patricia  
Do you realize that at the  straight.  begin to address all of these  (Homosexual acts are not yet  O'Hara,  Vice  President  of  
University of Notre Dame there  There exists a need to develop  needs.  accepted  by  the  Catholic  Student  Affairs,  and  other  
exists an organization which, in  self respect  as  a  person,  a  Similarly, Campus Ministry,  Church). GLND/SMC organizes  members  of  the  Students  
the tradition of the Christian  development which can only  not to imply that they really try,  these purposes no more than  Affairs/Services Office. Once  
Church,  seeks  to  help  occur with acceptance, not only  can't fulfill this role itself either.  does student government or the  again this mission conflict issue  
individuals who are hurting,  by others but by the individual  These offices may serve the  fencing team. This behavior is  was raised. In addition, the  
extend a caring hand to those  herself or himself. Gay students  needs of an individual student  irrelevant to the purposes of the  group has been forbidden to  
suiTering the pain and isolation  should be able to live in  an  with  a  particular, personal  group. If one only examines the  associate itself with the name of  
and dnpression, fulfill needs of  environment that is free from  problem. This is primarily how  actions, motivations and goals  Notre Dame in word or image.  
students in desperate search for  hostility and hatred by fellow  they are designed.  But when  of GLND/SMC it is evident that  Furthermore, the group is  
support,  help  frustrated  students.  There is a need to  one seeks support elsewhere, I  this organization is not only  forbidden  to  make  any  
individuals build a  sense of  live and share in the community  can  say  from  firsthand  completely consistent with the  reference or implication that it  
worth, and bring together the  without experiencing alienation  experience, no  one at all is  University's mission but even a  even  exists  as  a  group.  It  
University community to make  and depression.  extending  a  caring  prototype of the kind of student  appears that Patricia O'Hara, as  
it awarn of the injustices that  hand-except GLND/SMC.  group the University seeks to  well as the administration, in  
nxist within itself?  Gay students need to be able  This organization exists as the  cultivate.  denying GLND/SMC the right to  
Do you also realize that this  to talk about and share their  only positive force on campus  Following Christ's example,  function, are actively choosing  
organization is rejected by the  experiences as well as find  dedicated to addressing these  GLND/SMC members unselfishly  to harm gay students and to  
University  of  Notre  Dame,  support  with  other  gay  important needs. It is ironic that  reach out to fellow students  ignore their many needs.  
forbidden to formally organize  students. They need to deal  the University has created the  who  are suffering, rejected,  I am  truly saddened by the  
under the University's name  with their sexuality in a mature  atmosphere where these needs  depressed and lonely and try to  situation which exists here.  
and stiOnd at every opportunity  and responsible manner. They  arise and then cruelly denies its  support and give back to them  Notre Dame possesses such  
to pursue its goals? As one who  need the ability to address  own student means to fulfill  their self respect. And in doing  great potential for the gay  
has studied, lived, developed at  issues  of  personal  them.  so, these members themselves  student who is coming out.  
the Univnrsity and become a  discrimination without fear of  I further question the banning  risk rejection, hostility and  These four years spent at ND  
member of this Notre Dame  rejection by the Notre Dame  of GLND/SMC on the grounds  alienation  from  the  other  could be the perfect opportunity  
family, I am confused and quite  family.  Most  important,  that Campus Ministry and the  students,  even  from  their  for students to integrate into  
disappointed by Notre Dame's  perhaps, for students who are  Counseling  Center  provide  friends.  their lives Christian morals and  
refusal  to  accept Gays and  gay is the freedom to educate  adequate support. Even if they  values  together  with  the  
Lesbians at Notre Dame/St.  the non-understanding and  did, is too much support a bad  How  can  the  University  development of their sexual,  
Mary's College.  non-accepting members of the  thing?  If a  group of black  support and even encourage  emotional and psychological  
Until the atmosphere at Notre  community. to bring to light the injustices which exist within it.  students, female students or non-Catholic students decided  students to participate in the Reserve Officers Training Corps,  identities. Unfortunately, most students  
Danw  becomes  more  In the past, the University has  to organize, feeling they needed  which is part of the United State  wait until they leave Notre  
undnrstanding and accepting  stated through the Office of  additional support services in  Military, an organization which  Dame to come out in a world  
towards its members who are  Student AITairs that the needs of  the Notre Dame community, I  uses  such  anti-Christian  that does not share the same  
gay,  the  University  cannot  gay students are best served by  hardly believe the University  principles  as  violence  and  morals and values.  Coming out  
afford to deny its students the earn and support this  Campus Ministry and the University Counseling Center.  would turn them away stating that Campus Ministry and the  killing to achieve its "justified" goals, an organization which is  in this type of environment can be frightening, it can be  
organization provides, care and  While at Notre Dame, I did not  Counseling  Center  give  just this past winter attacked a  difficult, it can be deadly. In an  
support whkh is sorely neednd.  need Campus Ministry. I did not  adequate  support.  These  developing country, taking the  ideal world there would be no  
From my personal experience  need the Counseling Center. My  students would have every right  human lives of one  hundred  need for GLND/SMC to exist at  
during my four years at ND I  needs,  as well  as  the many  to organize, just as gay students  thousand people and returned  Notre Dame, for gay students  
realiz1HI that due to the oppressivn and intolerant  needs of all gay students extend so far beyond the reaches of  do. The truth underlying this banning controversy, I feel, is  proud and smiling? How can the University, in good  could find love, care and support from their friends,  
environment in which a gay  these two offices, however.  simply that the Administration  conscience, support the ROTC  fellow Domers and the Notre  
student finds herself or himself,  The Counseling Center, which  wants to believe that GLND/SMC  program yet at the same time  Dame family.  Until this time  
various needs develop and must  for  some  time  has  offered  is  inconsistent  with  the  clam that GLND/SMC, which  arrives, however, Notre Dame  
he addressed. Among these  meeting space to  GLND/SMC  "mission" of the University of  lives out true Christian values,  desperately needs GLND/SMC.  
ne1~ds, I found that gay students  and has recently sponsored a  Notre Dame.  is  inconsistent  with  its  
must b1~ ahle to interact with all  lecture series of homosexual  For  some  reason,  the  "mission?"  Have  I  Robert H. Brady  
individuals openly and honestly  issues,  has  so  many  other  Administration maintains the  misunderstood the University's  Class of 1988  
in atrnosplwre where it is not  concerns to deal with that it  strange idea that GLND/SMC  "mission?"  St. Louis, Mo.  
nncnssary to continually lie to  simply  doesn't  have  the  meets to engage in what they  
Support-side measures help the economy  
Dear Editor:  stagnation of the 1970s and  1981  to 34 percent in 1986  
TPII nw, whnre have all the  early '80s).  Sustained lower tax  (Lindsey, p. 83).  Tax payments  
advocatns of supply-sid11 gone?  ratHs encourage businesses to  form the bottom half of the in­ 
The heady rush of the mid­ invest, entrepreneurs to take  come  scale  (those  making  
nightins is long forgotten and  risks promising high rewards,  under $20,000) fell from seven  
thn media moans ad nauseam  and taxpayers to work harder  percent to six percent in 1986.  
of our mortgaged future and  for  higher after-tax yields.  As supply-siders argued, tax  
tlw excess of the Heagan era.  Sustained tax cuts result in an  cuts caused the rich to shift  
Pmsident Bush's allegiance is  increased supply of capital and  from tax-free to taxable activity  
questionable as he raises taxes  labor in the marketplace, lead­ and to work harder, thereby re­ 
and government spending; opt­ ing to increased employment,  couping some of the tax cuts.  
ing for the failed measures of  output and growth.  No one can deny that conclu­ 
past  administrations  and  We hear over and over again  sions drawn from economic  
Congress.  Was it just over two  in the media today that the  data are debatable.  Both sup­ 
years ago that the voters of this  Heagan-era tax cuts fueled  a  ply-siders and demand-side  
eountry signed on for four more  consumption boom responsible  economists have valid argu­ 
years of Heaganomics?  How  for economic growth and that  ments; however, the media to­ 
easily have the tenets of that  these same tax cuts let the rich  day discredits the success of  
doctrine and its success been  otT at the expense of the rest of  supply-side  measures  and  
forgotten.  America.  This is a typical ar­ derides an economic policy  
"The Hevolution of '81" led to  gument made by demand-side  calling for sustained lower  
the longest and strongest pnaeetime expansion in history, created more than twenty mil­lion new jobs and revitalized r11gions of this county consid­ered doomed to years of decline (Lindsey, Lawrence. The Great Experiment (New York; Basic Books, Inc., 1990)). Supply-side m1~asures lead to a strong eeonomy with controlled infla­tion and a reduced burden of government on business and families. I low was this accom­plished? Supply-side economists be­lieve that tax rules greatly af­fect tlw individuals' willingness to work, save or invest. lligh tax rates discourage work, sav­ings and investment, causing the economy to slow and unem­ployment to rise (i.e.. , the  economists. What the media fails to report from the supply­side is that rapid growth in business investment sustained economic growth. (Lindsey, pp. 114-126) This business in­vestment restrained inflation by allowing products to sell at lower prices through increased productivity and volume of production. If the growth of the 80s was primarily consumer driven, then tax cuts should have led to soaring inflation as increased demand overwhelmed existing produc­tive capacity. The media also fails to report that the share of taxes borne by the top two percent of tax­payers (those making over $60,000) increased from 26 percent of total tax receipts in  taxes, lower government spending and increased incen­tives for business investment and savings. This tendency gains increasing significance today as the executive branch edges away from the supply­side. So before writing off supply­side measures as the "voodoo economics" of the Reagan era, take a critical look at the other side. Or will it take another period of double-digit inflation, declining output and employment, and a prime inter­est rate near 21.5 percent to awaken us to the benefits of the Reagan economic platform? David R. Dyer Off-Campus Aprll19, 1991  Dear Editor: Last night I learned that Richard "Digger" Phelps had resigned as basketball coach at Notre Dame. Undoubtedly, this news has brought happiness to those students, alumni and others who have booed "Digger" during the past two seasons. I am one of the often­ridiculed "Subway Alumni" who has been a rooter and booster since 1935. During my life I've enjoyed good times and have lasted through misfortunes. I imagine that the booers have achieved nothing but perfection in all they have attempted. Therefore, they simply cannot understand anyone who is not perfect. Coach Phelps has compiled  an exemplary record in his twenty years at Notre Dame. He has won just about two thirds of his games; has a 100 percent graduation record; and has not even been touched by any hint of NCAA violations! Perhaps, the booers would prefer a Jimmy Valvano; a Joe B. Hall; or, let's do it up right, a Jerry Tarkanian! I sincerely hope that, when in future years, the booers meet adversity there will be people there to give them a slap on the back and encouragement rather than a slap in the face and boos. Ed Connelly Syracuse, N.Y. Aprll16, 1991  


----~--~-­
Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, April 24, 1991 
Peters introduces diversity program to ND 
By JIM BONALSKY More importantly, according Accent Writer to Peters, the course will intro­duce teachers to the many dif­The truth is an ambiguous ferent resources which exist concept that is vital to every­both here at Notre Dame and one's life. elsewhere which contain vari­
It is omnipresent in society, ous viewpoints concerning a from a parent's attempt to in­wide range of subjects. still the importance of telling "Some of the people here the truth to his children to a have good ideas but don't know witness swearing on the Bible where to start. The workshop at a trial. Much of one's life is will alleviate a great deal of the structured around what he be­footwork," explains Peters. lieves to be true, from a reli­Some people may wonder ex­gious standpoint to a factual actly why a diversified view of one. all subjects is necessary and 
The truth, so to speak, is how it could drastically differ probably sought after most in from the status quo approach to the educational system, where various subjects that is prac­teachers push their students to ticed today. The reason is be­search for and understand it. It cause the white or western is this very aspect of the truth, views that most of us have ac­however, that is most subject to cepted as the "truth" all of our interpretation and liable to be lives is different from that of misleading or slanted. other cultures. 
It is also this aspect of the As a matter of fact, some of truth that Notre Dame Profes­the discrepancies are almost sor Erskine Peters is attempting astounding. While the western to expand upon and perhaps views may not contain lies or clarify to some degree. misinformation, they do per­
Peters, a professor of Afro­haps gloss over or ignore com­
American and other literature , pletely the accomplishments of has been at Notre Dame for these other cultures. four years and is now putting One of the examples Professor 
Peters gives to demonstrate this portant to give all cultures Westerners believe that man proposals asking them to come
together a two-week faculty 
point exists in Western history. equal time. We are a multi-cul­and nature are separate and up with a plan to alleviate ra­workshop which will take place tural society and because of it this has led to many of the en­cial tensions on campuses.
over the summer. The purpose When anyone thinks of the there is no singular point of vironmental problems we have One hundred twenty schools of this seminar will be to dis­dawn of modern civilization, view. I don't want my views or today. If chemists worked from submitted applications andcuss ways of diversifying cur­Ancient Greece is usually the 
riculum and unearthing new first major culture to come to this program to close me off a different point of view, nineteen, including Notre mind. from the white point of view perhaps we would not be in the Dame, received grants. 
approaches to teach old mate­
rial. In fact, westerners view the because I might miss something same environmental situation Several different speakers Greek historian Herodotus as that it has to say. we are in today. Professor Peters would like to "My goal is to have everyone Peters thinks it is important clarify one point concerning the 
will be on hand to discuss their the "Father of Modern History" yet interestingly, much of what appreciate all subjects. If a that all of these supposed workshop. It has been men­new ideas on established topics. 
he writes about is Ancient black student likes opera or a "truths" be opened up and tioned that the teachers whoThey will include Elaine Kin white student likes jazz, that's shown in their entirety to all attend the summer session willfrom the University of California Egypt. 
great. Everyone should be en­students. He feels that a lot of be marked in some fashion inat Berkeley, who will lecture on From his book "Histories," it riched beyond themselves. My history is fraudulent and the the DART Book next year.
Asian-American views, Noha is obvious that Greece was 
Ishmail from the Anti­greatly influenced by Egypt, but hope is that teaching from dif­result of that is racial oppres­While he agrees with the idea, Defamation League to discuss when history is discussed from ferent cultural viewpoints will sion, which at times may lead to he has not personally recom­Arab-American beliefs, and a western point of view, it is help people learn something tension. It is this tension which mended nor officially heard of Notre Dame professor Phil Ancient Greece that is empha­about others and something the entire idea of the program any plans to that end. 
sized and Egypt that is often about themselves." arose from.
Gleason to talk about ethnicity skipped over. This phenomenon One of the more interesting The summer program is not "I think it would be a goodin the United States. 
point that the professor brings the brainchild of Professor idea because it would assist
There will also be represen­can be attributed to what 
tatives from Jewish, Afro­Professor Peters refers to as up is that of progress. The Peters at all, but of the Ford students in picking the most American, American Indian, society putting on "racial point of view that humans must Foundation, which supplies the aware teachers. It will add to dominate started with Aristotle $100,000 dollar grant. The the current student referral
and women's groups who will blinders." 
"Because we say that we are but this is not an African or foundation sent the University method of asking other studentsinform the group of their views 
and beliefs. a democratic society, it is im-Indian belief. and two hundred other colleges who the good teachers are." 

Field trips provide remedy for cultural blahs 
... 
My old girlfriend gave me a book called "14,000 Things to Be Happy About" after we broke up. Seeing it on the shelf always makes me kind of de­pressed. Some days I even feel like writing a piece called "14,001 Things to Complain About." 
I could list things like neon signs with missing letters and those annoying pop-up bath­room faucets. But my editor doesn't want Fresh Perspective competing with Inside Column for material, so the book sits on my shelf and reminds me of my life before Notre Dame. 
Another carryover from my high school to Notre Dame that surprises me is the "culturally enriching" field trip. 
Just as in high school, field trips are inevitably scheduled the night before I have a physics quiz, calc test and a philo paper due on the meaning of "no." Ever try to write 15 pages on the meaning of "no?" On a bus, no less. I mean, read the posters, prof, "No" means "no," right? "No" even means no in Spanish and French, doesn't it? What do they want from me? 
(Actually, this is what I love about subjects like philosophy and psychology: they allow you to elaborate extensively on the completely obvious. It saves you the trouble of actually learning new things and cuts down on the number of books you have to buy at the same time.) 
The upside of all this is that the trips tend to be really inter­esting, because otherwise no one would go. Hey, we're not missing classes for these things anymore. 
Just as my physics professor uses cliff-hanger class endings ("So that's how electronic cat food wave repulsion works and tomorrow I'll tell you why. "). And in addition to scheduling trips to places more interesting than the local zoo, my Humanities professor puts some effort into plugging in the cultural value of the experience. 
He tries to make it clear that those of us who want to become complete human beings, who want to rise above the primordial muck of ignorance inhabited by people who do not have Ph.D.s in Philosophy, who even have the slightest aspira­tions of making Dean's List this semester, should make a special effort to attend. 
He always goes to great 
Chuck Young 
Fresh Perspective 

lengths to point out that I have not been culturally enlightened. 
"All right, Chuck, what have you learned lately that has made you a more complete hu­man being?" He asked me this week. 
Well, the North Stars HUMILIATED the Blackhawks, I was thinking. But, hey, I need an A, and he's from Chicago. So I resisted. 
The result was me, on a bus, going to The Joffery Ballet. 
"Welcome aboard, this is United Limo run 513 and I'm your driver Bud Holliday," said Bud. Like most United Limo drivers, Bud secretly held on to his childhood aspiration of be­coming an airplane pilot. 
"It's about, oh, two hours to Chicago and close to 60 degrees in the Windy City. If the tem­perature becomes uncomfort­able or any other problems arise, please tell me and enjoy the ride." 
Bud taxied out of the main circle and took off for Chicago. The people around me got out a deck of cards and spent a half-hour arguing about the rules of Euchre. They ended up playing Uno instead. 
"Oh, no," someone said be­fore long. "Gary's coming." 
We hoped Bud would get on the intercom and tell us that, due to "noxious turbulence and an unfragrant headwind," small gas masks were going to drop down. No such luck. 
Thankfully, the driver floored it and we drove through Gary, Indiana, the humble be­ginnings of the Jackson 5 and the only city represented by a scratch-n-sniff sticker instead of a symbol on state maps. It still wasn't pleasant. Imagine riding through the ethanol plant behind an uncovered manure truck, or better yet in the back of one. That's Gary. 
Chicago was better. Those of us who grew up in the suburbs spent the whole time craning our heads and looking straight up, making sure one of those buildings wasn't about to blow over. We saw the Sears Tower, got to the Opera House early and ran into five or six guys in tuxedoes who were paid ten dollars an hour to tell people like us the restrooms didn't open until 6:45. 
The ballet was impressive. 
The dancers-and I swear this is true-have no bones. It was like watching human Silly Putty move to music. My professor commented that he could "feel himself becoming a superior human being" just by watching . I wanted to bring up the North Stars, again, and, again, re­sisted. 
The Joffery was cool, but I'm still not convinced that having no culture is such a bad thing. For instance, my guess is that they had to rezone the land the Snite is on so it could show its movies without violating a number of local ordinances. 
I try to become more "sophisticated," anyway. Realizing the broadening cul­tural rift between North and South quad, for instance, I'll occasionally go over to the lawn in front of O'Shag and check out the art. 
One of my friends caught me accidentally admiring a piece of equipment left out by the Fightin' Irish grounds crew once, but that's all right with me. 
After all, maybe I could use a little culture. But I don't have to act like I have it.. 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. altha Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FOR RENT FOR RENT Macintosh Image Writer II LONDON SPRING '90. Printer For Sale. Less than one YARD PARTY AT THE SQUARE THURSDAY APRIL 25 AT 9:00NOTICES Moving to Chicago? Female NO BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE year old. Excellent Condition! Friday, April 26th BEACON BOWLING. JOIN USI 
grad needs roommate to share 2 WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. $300. Call Kathie Look for ticket sales all week-TYPING AVAILABLE bedroom apartment. Must be a non­$600 FOR FOUR. @4045. cups will be distributed upon arrival. (on monday, April 22) 287·4082 smoker. If interested, please call 10 MONTH LEASE. Lots of beer, music, food and fun. Meri-4 
Ann at (312) 935-1958. CALL 271-0373 87 Saab 900 Turbo. red. sunroof, Don't miss it! II Resumes .... Prolessional quality auto, 3-dr, low miles,$11,250, Ph (on tuesday, April 23) 272-5667. (Tom Williams) TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES 277-8898 Meri-3 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE MOVING TO CHICAGO at the end 
KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. of the summer and I am looking for (on wednesday, April 24) $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. NE:EDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE Price is Negotiable. a female non-smoker roommate to Meri-2 hours 10-5:30 everyday Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For NORTH OF NO 2773097 Please Call 2805 share an apartment in the Lincoln Pandora's Books 233-2342 info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K-541. Park/North Side area. Please call (on thursday, April 25) corner of NO Ave. & Howard FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN. CRATE and MARSHALL guitar Gina X4853. Meri-t 
AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, amps. Call Scott @ 234-3356 
NEED NO FB CARD #11 0. $$$ UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. JUNIORS & SENIORS ... (on friday, April 26) TYPING: Accurate and Fast! Chris x4415 CAMPUS. 272-0615. TALLAHASSEE PLANE TICKET If you have typing skills, P.C. Hey world check her out !Ill Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; FOR 5113. (1-WAY OR ROUND experience & if you are seeking a And wish her a Happy Birthday\ Evenings 684-7507. TRIP-BACK 5119). B/0. CALL 283-permanent or temporary office Dial 284-GENT. 
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE! I Excellent 3-bdrm. house, 1 mi. from 4538 OR LV. MSG. AT 283-3991. position in Chicago, call Angela Ede TYPING/WORD PROCESSING need a ride to Cincinnati this NO, on bus line, near stores. etc. at Interviewing Consultants, Inc., SERVICE. 232-3325. weekend. Will pay own way. Grad. Stud. pref. Call2884300, lv. 1979 DATSUN 210, $450, 80 K 312-977-4611. ENGAGEMENT PARTY NOTICE: 
CONTACT X1811 anytime. message. MLS. CALL LIZ 271-1893 
Yo, Button Your Fly and just take STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF Help! My rents are kicking me out. the shuttle over to SMC Thursday TIME? SUBLETIOR AND/OR RENTOR I'm a lovable, black male kitten, 2 They're moist April 25-you won't regret it!! 
LASER QUALITY TERM Retail security in store. Store NEEDED mo. old, and looking for a good They're loud 295 LeMans 295 LeMans PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK detective. experience preferred but Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm home and plenty of food. If you can They're Bone Forest TURNAROUND not necessary. Training program. sublet from June -August provide this environment. I'm FREE! 6-8 Friday On the quad 
Benefits include major medical, life and/or share lease from Jan.-May. Please call 287-5341 . 10-2 Friday, McCormick's T MAIL BOXES insurance. vacations, available Call x3828 1-1 :45 Sat., Picnic A III!LIVEIIII 
277-6245. dental plan. available 401 K 8-9 Sat., Before the Guess Who at R At Club 23, Thursday 4/25 retirement plan and more. Send 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr. TICKETS ) Moose Krause Stadium T with Less Better Blues. background info. with phone #to Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. 10-2 Sat. Alumni Senior Club. A Come see the Gun get down 
L.P. Manager. 841 S. Kalamazoo I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET! Call Join the Boneheads for weepy A and get dirty. And always RESUMES/TERM Street. Paw Paw, Ml 49079. House with indiv. Rooms avail. x4114. hairiness. And pie. Yum yum. remember, "if we run out PAPERS/THESES Guaranteed 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. G room, we'll pack ya' in the Lowest Rates. 256-6657. Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. Need two Graduation tickets U rear." 
A major retail chain is accepting PLEASE II! Call Bathe 288-0597 The Copy Shop N applications for a special security Summer Rent LaFortune Student Center 
LOST/FOUND 
position at a local location. This is a Studio Apt., Turtle Creek I need GRADUATION TIXII is ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS PINK full-time position earning Furnished, utilities included. Call x1443-leave message. for 1991-92 employment. 5. QNRJWYOFNCT competitive hourly rate. No Call AI 273-9583. Stop in and apply today!!! 
LOST: 2 Video tapes in the North experience necessary. Benefits SENIORS! BLUE Dining Hall. I left them there on include major medical, life I need 1 Grad ticket 5. EBFJKMCSBIH Thur. (4-18) during lunch. Please insurance, vacations, available Turtle Creek Townhouse Please call Martha x4271 Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We callII NO Questions Asked II dental plan, available 401 K For Summer Sublease love you. YELLOW Chris Balint 233-5882 retirement plan, and more. To apply, Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612 HELP! 5. UZVROMWGZQT 
please write to: L.P. Manager, 841 I need a ticket to graduation. 
S. Kalamazoo Street, Paw Paw, Ml (Just one little ticket) ******* .. HOGSTOCK*..*"*** ENGAGEMENT PARTY UPDATE: 49079. Include phone II, address, CONDO for summer rental. Close If you've got one please call APRIL 25th days available for work, and name to NO. 2 bd, furnished. Rent Mike @ 283-It16 The weather was too cold on 
LOST -BROWN LEATHER of newspaper ad seen in. flexible II Call 272-5708. Saturday, but don't despair! CUM AS YOUR FAVORITE NEW JACKET lost possibly in North The supreme festival of peace, KID! GUESS THE LUCKY Dtning Hall. If found, please call LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5 PERSONALS love, and music will take COUPLE AND WIN THE PRIZE!! Sam x3282. BDRMS. $700. 282-1014. place on Stepan Field this 
STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship Saturday. The music will 295 LeMans • 295 LeMans 
Jobs $300 to $900 per week. A very spacious 1 bedroom\ HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS start at It am, and there will FOUND: A diamond ring near the Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M­Historical elegance! SUMMER? Jet there with be a new band each hour. library and Comp/math bldg on April F (317) 452-8809 Ext. C4. Fireplace, French Doors­AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the Watch for posters with times Fritz Klein, 17th. Call 283-4570 to identify. $385 mo. 287-5936 Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. and details! At your party this past Saturday 
'also' (As reported in NY Times and Let's night, I could barely keep my $385 month pays all II Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 ''"""HOGSTOCK"''"" aching, lustful thighs from jumping 
LOST: ATIENTION: Summer School 1 bedroom apt, fireplace, mini­on your manly physique. You are Two keys (for dorm room and mail Students. Earn $$$ as a Dorm blinds 287-5936 the epitome of my every throbbing slot) on Fighttn' Irish keychain, Supervisor for the Notre Dame FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY desire! Please don't graduate and between SOH and Library, Sunday Hockey Camp. June 23rd KOONTZ HOUSE BED & CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. leave me unfulfilledlll night. -July 5th. Call N.D. Hockey Office if BREAKFAST WEEKEND If you don't satisfy me soon I'll be No sentimental value attatched, just interested. NEED A SUMMER APARTMENT IN GETAWAY. full of remorse because rumor has It a matter of convenience. Reward? 239-5050 CHICAGO? 23 miles south of campus on STUDENTS: that you're hung like a HORSE IIIII Well. if you're cute (and of the 1986 NO alum needs a roommate Koontz Lake. 586-7090. Going home for the summer? Need '""Your lustful admirer"' FEMALE persuasion) I'll give you a for the summer in a fully furnished a place to stash your stuff? We big wet kiss (optional). Third (male) roomate needed for a Lincoln Park location. The I got it. have the place for you! The earth and I Thank you much I John x2331 3-bedroom house next year. Nice apartment is three blocks from both Come. And be my baby. JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE watch helpless as our skies 
house. Cheap. the "L" and the subway (10 min. ride 272-2400 pass so far above; 
15-min walk from campus. to the Loop) and 1/2 mile from Lake we dare to touch them '''"'Lostl\111"''''3-4 disks in a blue Michigan. Rent is $300/mo. Call Tired of paying high taxi fares? SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates only at the distant horizon, plastic disk case; one says 'resume x3234 Bob Mike at (312) 649-9407. Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi and facility. Call Store-More Mini­and whisper our dreams junk' on ~-PLEASE return!II to arrive? Warehouse 654-3636. behind the wind. Reward! II! Call Mark 273-9058. Need Roomate I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and M. 
Summer; Year Need female roommates for Fall can give rides to the THE NOT-SO-ROYAL 
$200.00 Mo. and Spring semesters at Turtle airport/train/bus station the SHAKESPEARE COMPANY Syl-I need that crap like I Lost: 1 pair of pennyloafers at the Call Lena Creek. weekend after finals for just $5. need a banana in a tail­Senior Informal at St. Hedwigs. Call #3517 Amanda, 271-1995 Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a Presents pipe. Just remember: Jason x1845 spot. the most influential 
Looking for female summer "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS" person in church Is an 
WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) roomates to share Oakhill condo By William Shakespeare old lady... Debster LOST MONDAY NIGHT ON DEB'S people to occupy a Turtle Creek 284-4110 Moving off campus? 21 BIRTHDAY: Bracelet-gold links Apt. for summer. More affordable Fantastic bar for sale-less than a Friday and Saturday, Dear Lustful Admirer, kind of in shape of hearts about than a townhouse. Call Jim or John year old. Also, various furniture April 26 & 27 at 8 p.m. Take It from someone who quarter inch wide. Possibly lost in Xtt77. FOR SALE including beds IN THEODORE'S knows ..... Fritz Klein is definitely library computer lab, CJ's, or (double and single), couches, NOT hung like Tatonkalll Nice butt, Commons. (Nice combo. eh?l) NO PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO tables, desks, bookshelves,etc. "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS" though. PLEASE HELP, sentimental FOR RENT YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING Call 288-0597, Lafayette Square Clearly Mislead value .... REWARD\1 CALL 1279. COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS. Where else are you going to see Thanks. GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO senior Steve Wagner as a religious Diggy-ln a world that won't let us 
SUMMER RENTAL NO. LET'S EXPLORE Favor Requested and Granted. exorcist? feel, in a world where nothing 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM) Say this prayer 9 times per day for 8 seems real, I have found you. Still FOUND: Key chain with Eiffel Tower (MAX.. 3 people) • days...it has never been known to This Friday and Saturday at Bp.m . floating back after 2 months. When I on bleachers behind Bookstore. Call CHEAP RENTIII '86 RX7-GXL, mint, very low mi., fail. Publication must be promised. at Theodore's! look back I almost can't imagine the 
2488 to claim. sun roof, stored, equalizer, loaded. May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be life I'd be living if I hadn't found CALL MONICA 259-7052. adored, glorified, loved, and someone who holds me the way 
X 283-4853 preserved throughout the world now that you do.-A Shiny Happy FOUND: Single silver earring with Drums for sale and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus Volunteering after graduation?Sign Person.-P.S. You definitely are black circular inset. Call 2488 to Mirage Percussion pray for us. St. Jude worker of up at esc for volunteer send-off '1he Sweetest Girl." claim. GRAD. WEEKEND Like new. Best offer. miracles pray for us. St. Jude help ceremony by Apr. 24 Your parents 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Mark 288-3048 of the hopeless pray for us. Thank will want to be there !II WHO ME? Yes you Scot 219-291-7153. you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and Thanks for two wonderful months FOUND: ring by LaFortune INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Mary! -J.S. Hoping lor more 
call4060 Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Volunteering post-grad? Love, your Jolly Jugular Jabber An attractive studio in lovely old for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Parents not too psyched about (Becky) mansion near N.D. $300 now Office near campus. HEY KRIS-TONI! the decision? Change their minds 
Lost: Black Gruen Sportwatch on renting for summer &fall 91 call Every dog has its day !I at the volunteer send-off ceremony GUMMY I We have been hearing north quad in front of BP. If found 2879624 on May 18 at 11am! your SEXY voice for awhile. When please call Alicia at x3427 89 GEO Spectrum are you going to reveal your TRUE Great Gas Mileage-SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 Last day to sign up at CSC for identity? The women of Regina N. 
NYC SUMMER SUBLET 45/city 50/highway each way on discounted scheduled volunteer send-off! want to know\ Lost: Brown leather bracelet AVAILABLE. $425/mo. May-Aug. Still has factory warranty airlines to Europe from Chicago. w/ gold clasp. Mon. 23. Call Call Barb (718) 802-0939. excellent buy, call Pat Call (BOO) 325-2026. J The JPW Slide Show will Need a ride to San Antonio. Texas X3950. 288-5678 U be shown Monday, April for the Summer? 
N 22, and Wed., April 24 at 

MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 'TN 0' I the Montgomery Theatre Call Rachel at LOST: GOLD HEART WITH N.D. alumnae family for the most IRISH PUB NEAR N.D. -3 WAY TROOP NOTRE DAME 0 in LaFortune, 9:30-10 x283-4846 AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ON GOLD attractive. well-maintained LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121 If you missed us at St Ed's Carnival, R p.m. Be there, or be a CHAIN AROUND ACC. GREAT apartments on Chicago's North SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 there's still time ... S foolish little piglet. U.M.O.C. Tuesday's Results SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. side\ Hardwd floors, great closet OR CALL (219) 277-8526 See us: Fri. April 26 at 1) Brennan Harvath---180 votes CALL 284-5512. space, lndry facils., conveniently SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY An Tostal-3:30 and ""'YARD PARTY''"''" 2) John O'Brien ---131 votes 
located to public transp and Latin Expressions Friday, April 26th 3)Rob Kuennen---100 votes shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. Plane Tix: SEATILE to NO in Fall. "It's all in the way you groove" Look for cups all weeki 4) Mark Manning---47 votes
........................

'TN D' 5) Lunchmeat---1 vote
WANTED We'd love to help you out! xtt52 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991
SCOREBOARD
page 14 

BASEBALL STANDINGS NFL DRAFT PICKS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Shelton, rb, William & Mary. 171, Phoenix, Ivory
Round-by-round aelectlona of the NFL State. 36, San Diego, George Thornton, dt, (from Washington), Adrian Cooper, te, Oklahoma 
Lee Brown, rb, Arkansas-Pine Bluff. 172, Atlanta.
Eaat Dlvlalon Draft: Alabama 37, Dallas (from Detrott), Dixon Edwards. 104, Philadelphia. William Thomas, lb, Texas A&M. 
w L GB Brian Mitchell, db, Brigham Young. 173, Dallas
Pet. Firat Round lb, Michigan State. 38, Houston (from Minnesota 105, Chicago, Joe Johnson, db, North (from Denver), Leon Len, dt, Emporia State. 174,New York 9 5 .843 1, Dallas (from New England), Russell through Dallas), Darryl Lewis, db, Arizona. 39, San Carolina State. 106, Dallas (from Kansas City), Bill 
Pittsburgh T~ Bay, CalVin Toggle, b, Georgia Tech.
9 5 .843 Maryland, dl, Miami, Fla. 2, Cleveland, Eric Turner, Diego (from Tampa Bay), Eric Bienlemy, rb, Musgrave, qb, Oregon. 107, Los Angeles Rams St. Louis 9 6 .600 112 s, UCLA. 3, Atlanta. Bruce Pickens, cb, Nebraska Colorado. 40, Indianapolis, Shane Curry, de, (from los Angeles Aalders), Robert Bailey, db, 
175, New York Jets, Doug Parrish, db, San Chicago 7 8 .467 2112 4, Denver, Mike Croel, lb, Nebraska. 5, Loa Miami, 108, Dallas (from Miami through 
Francisco State. 176, Green Bay. Reggte Burnette,
Miami, Fla 41, New England (from Dallas), Jerome Fla. 
Montreal 5 .357 Angelea Todd cb, lb, Houston. 177, San Diego, David Jones, wr,
9 4 Rama, Lyght, Notre Henderson, db, Clemson. Washington and Detroit), Tony Hill, de, Tenn.­Philadelphia 4 10 .286 5 Dame. 6, Phoenix, Eric Swann, dl, no college. 7, Chattanooga. 109, Cincinnati (from San Delaware State. 178, Detroit, Franklin Thomas, te,
42, New Orleans, Wesley Carroll, wr,
Weat Dlvlalon Grambling. 179, M lnnesota, Scott Reagan, dt,
T~ Bay, Charles McRae, ot, Tennessee. Miami, Fla 43, Los Angeles Raiders (from Seattle), Francisco), Rob Carpenter, wr, Syracuse. 110, 
w L GB Humboldt State. 180, Minnesota (from Dallas
Pet. 8, Philadelphia (from Green Bay), Antone 
Nick Bell, rb, Iowa 44, Houston, John Flannery, c, Dallas (from Buffalo through New England), Kevin through Los Angeles Raiders), Tripp Welborne, db,San Diego 9 5 .843 Davis, ot, Tennessee. 9, San Diego, Stanley Syracuse. 45, San Franclaco (from Harris, de, Texas Southern. 111, New York Giants, 
Cincinnati 7 .538 Michigan. 181, Indianapolis, James Bradley, wr,
6 1112 Richard, cb, Texas. 10, Detroit, Herman Moore, wr, Notre Dame. Clarence Jones, t, Maryland.
Cincinnati), Ricky Wattera, rb, M lchlgan State.
los Angeles 6 7 .462 2112 Virginia. 11, New England (from Minnesota 
46, Pittsburgh, Jeff Graham, wr, Ohio State. 47, 
182, New Orleans, Hayward Haynes, g.
San Francisco 6 7 . 462 2 112 through Dallas), Pat Harlow, ot, Southern Cal. 12• 
San Diego (from Washington), Eric Moten, g, Rfth Round 
Florida State. 183, Houston, Kyle Freeman, lb,
Atlanta 5 6 .455 2112 Dallas, Alvin Harper, wr, Tennessee. 13, Atlanta Michigan State. 48, Philadelphia. Jesse Campbell, 112. New England, Jon Vaughn, rb, Angelo State. 184, Cincinnati, Femandous Vinson,Houston 6 8 .429 3 (from Indianapolis), Mike Pritchard, wr, Colorado. Michigan. 113, Miami ~rom Cleveland), Brian Cox,
db, North Carolina State. 
db, North Carolina State. 185, Pittaburgh,
Tueaday'a Gamea 14, New England (from New Orleans through 49, Chicago, Chria Zorich, dt, Notre lb, Western Illinois. 114, Atlanta, James Goode, lb. Dallas), leonard Russell, rb, Arizona State. 
Andre Jonea, lb, Notre Dame. 186, Atlanta 
Late Gamea Not Included Dame. 50, Kansas City, Joe Valerio, t, Oklahoma. 115, Denver, Greg Lewis, rb, (from Seattle), Mark Tucker, c, Southern Cal. 187,Pittsburgh 7, Monlreal 3 15, Pittsburgh, Huey Richardson, lb, Pennsylvania. 51, Seattle (from los Angeles Washington. 116, los Angeles Rams, Robert Philadelphia. James Joseph. rb, Auburn. 188,
Florida 16, Seanle, Dan McGwire, qb, San Diego Young, dl, Mississippi State. 117, Phoenix, Vance State. 17, Washington (from Houston through New Hammond, dt, Clemson. 118, Detroit, Scott 
New York 2, Philadelphia 1 Raiders), Doug Thomas. wr, Clemson. 52. 
Washington, Keith Cash, wr, Texas. 

Cincinnati 3, Houston 1 Cincinnati (from Miami through San Francisco), 189, Kansas City, Bernard Ellison, db,
England and Dallas), Bobby Wilson, dt, Michigan Conover, g, Purdue. 
St. louis 4, Chicago 2 Lamar Rogers, dt, Auburn. 53, San Francisco, John Nevada 190, Chicago, Paul Justin, qb, ArizonaState. 18, Cincinnati, Alfred Williams, lb, Colorado.
Arlanta at los Angeles, (n) Johnson, lb, Clemson. 54, Buffalo, Phil Hansen, 119, Minnesota, Chris Thome, c, State. 191, Miami, Chris Green, db, Illinois. 192,
19, Green Bay (from Philadelphia), VIncent Clark, Minnesota 120, Tarrpa Bay, Terry Bagsby, rb, East
San Diego at San Francisco, (n) de, North Dakota State. 55, New York Giants, San Diego (from Los Angeles Raiders), Terry
db, Ohio State. 20, Dallas (from Washington), x­Texas Slate. 121, Miami (from New York Jets
Kanavis McGhee, b, Colorado.
AMERICAN LEAGUE Beauford, ol, Florida A&M. 193, San Francisco,
Kelvln Pritchett, dt, Mississippi. 21, Kansas City, through Green Bay), Eugene Williams. g, Iowa
Eaat Divfalon Harvey Williams, rb, LSU. Sheldon Canley, rb, San Jose Slale. 194, Buffalo,
Third Round State. 122. San Francisco (from Green Bay),
w L Pet. Amir Rasul, rb, Florida A&M. 195, New York Giants,
GB 22. Chicago, Stan Thomas, ot, Texas. 23, 56, New England, Calvin Stephens, g. Merton Hanks, db, Iowa. 123, San Diego, Duane
Boston 8 .615 Slmmle Carter, db, Southern Mississippi.
5 Mlarri, Randal Hill, wr, Mlarri, Fla 24, Los Angeles 
South Carolina. 57, Cleveland, James Jones, nt, Young, te, Michigan State. 124, New EnglandDetroit 7 6 .538 1 Aalders, Todd MarlnoVich, qb, Southern Cal. 25, Northern Iowa. 58, Detroit (from Los Angeles (from Dallas through Los Angeles Aalders), Ben
Toronto 8 7 .533 1 San Francisco, Ted Washington, dl, Louisville. 26, Rams), Reggie Barrett, wr, Texas-EI Paso. 59, Coates, te, Livingstone. 125, Indianapolis, Kerry Eighth Round Milwaukee 6 6 .500 1112 Buffalo, Henry Jones, s, Illinois. 27, New York 196, New England, Harry Colon, db,
Phoenix, Aeneas Williams, db, Southern U. 60, Cash,te, Texas.
Cleveland 5 7 .417 Giants, Jarrod Bunch, fb, Michigan. Missouri. 197, Cleveland, Frank Conover, dt,
2112 Miami (from Atlanta), Aaron Craver, rb, Fresno 126, New Orleans, Reggie Jones, db,
NewYork 5 8 .385 3 x-traded rights to Detroit a second-and Syracuse. 198, Phoenix, Greg Amsler, rb,
State. 61, Denver, Keith Traylor, lb. Central Memphis State.127, San Diego (from Pittsburgh
Baltimore 4 7 .364 3 third-round pick plus the fourth-round pick they had Tennessee. 199, Atlanta, Randy Austin, te, UCLA. 
Oklahoma State. 62, New York Jets (from Green through New England), Floyd Fields, db, Arizona
Weal Dlvlalon received from Miami. 200. Denver, Kenny Walker, de, Nebraska. 201,
Bay), Morris Lewis, lb. Georgia. State. 128, Seattle, Harlan Davis, db, Tennessee.
w L Pet. GB NOTE: The New York Jets did not have a los Angeles Rams, Pat Tyrance, lb. Nebraska
129, Houston, Gary Wellman, wr, Southern Cal.
63, Dallas (from San Diego), Godfrey Myles, lb, Florida. 84, Dallas (from Detrott), James
Chicago 8 3 .727 first-round selection because they selected Rob 202, New York Jets, Tim James, db, Colorado.
130, Cincinnati, Mike Arthur, c. Texas A&M. 131,
Oakland 9 6 .600 1 Moore In the 1990 supplemental draft. 203, Green Bay, Johnny Walker. wr. Texas.
Philadelphia, Craig Erickson, qb, Miami. Fla. 132,
Richards, g. Califorma. 65, Minnesota, Carlos
California 8 6 .571 1112 204, Phoenix (from San Diego), Jerry Evans, te,
Dallas (from Washington), Darrick Brownlow, lb,
Jenkins, lb, Michigan State. 66, Tampa Bay, Kansas City 6 7 .462 3 28, Houston (from New England), Mike Lawrence Dawsey, wr, Florida State. 67, Green Illinois. 133, Kansas City, Charles Mincy, db, Christian. 206, Minnesota. Reggie Johnson, de, Texas 4 5 .444 3 Dumas, db, Indiana. 29, Cleveland, Ed King, g, Bay (from New York Jets), Don Davey, de. Washington. 134, Chicago, Anthony Morgan, wr, Arizona 207, Tarrpa Bay, Marty Carter, db, Middle Minnesota 4 10 .286 5112 Auburn. 30, Denver, Reggie Johnson, te, Florida Wisconsin. 68, Minnesota (from Dallas), Jake Tennessee State. 208, Indianapolis, Tim Bruton, te, 
Seattle 7 6 .538 2 Second Round Toledo. 205, Detro~. Cedric Jackson, rb, Texas 
Tennessee. 135, Green Bay (from M laml), Jeff He,
State. 31, Los Angeles Rams, Roman Phifer, lb, Reed, wr, Grambling. 69, Indianapolis, Dave Missouri. 209, Phoenix (from Dallas), Scon Evans,
Tueaday'a Garnea p, Memphis State. 136, Tampa Bay (from Loa
McCloughan, db, Colorado. dt, OklahomaUCLA. 32, Phoenix, Mike Jones, de, North
Late Gamea Not Included Angelee Raldere), Tim Ryan, g, Notre
Carolina State. 33, Allanta, Brett Favre, qb, 70, Dallas (from New Orleans), Eric 210, New Orleans, Frank Wainright, te,
Texas at Milwaukee, (n) Dame. 137, San Francisco, Harry Boatswain, I,
Southern Mississippi. 34, New York Jets, Browning Williams, t, Central State, Ohio. 71, Houston, Steve Northern Colorado. 211, Cincinnati, Mike Dingle,
New York 5, Detroit 0 New Haven. 138, Buffalo, Shawn Wilbourn, db,
Nagle, qb, Louisville, Jackson, db, Purdue. 72, Clnclmatl, Bob Dahl, rb, South Carolina. 212, Pittsburgh, Dean
Boston 3, Toronto 0 Long Beach State. 139, New York Giants, Tony
35, Green Bay, Esera Tuaolo, dt, Oregon dt, Notre Dame. 73, Pittsburgh, Ernie Mills, wr, Dingman, g, Michigan. 213, Los Angeles Raiders
Kansas City 6, Cleveland 0 Moss, lb, Florida State. 
Florida 74, Seattle, David Daniels, wr, Penn State. (from Seattle), Brian Jones, lb, Texas. 214,Baltimore at Chicago, (n) 
75, Philadelphia, Rob Selby, t, Auburn. 76, Sixth Round Houston, Gary Brown, rb, Penn State. 215,Oakland 7, Minnesota 5 
Washington, Ricky Ervlns, rb, Southern Cal. 140, New England, Dave Key, db, Michigan. Washington, Jimmy Spencer, db, Florida 216,Seattle at Cal~ornla, (n) 77, Kansas Cny, Tim Barnett, wr, Jackson 141, Cleveland, Michael Jackson, wr. Southern State. 78, Chicago, Chris Gardocki, p-k, Clemson. Mississippi. 142, Denver, Nick Subls, t, San Diego Philadelphia, Scott Kowafkowakf, lb, NotreBASEBALL LEADERS 79, Houston (from Miami), Kevin Donnalley, I, State. 143, Los Angeles Rams, Neal Fort, t, Dame. North Carolina 80, Tarrpa Bay (from Los Angeles Brigham Young. 144, Phoenix, Eduardo Vega. I, 217, Chicago, larry Horton, db, Texas A&M. Raiders), Robert Wilson, rb, Texas A&M. 81, Green Memphis State. 145, Atlanta. Eric Pegram, rb, 218, Kansas City, Tom Dohring, t, Michigan. 219, AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Bay (from San Francisco), Chuck Webb, rb, North Teaxs. 146, los Angeles Raiders (from Los Angeles Raiders, Todd Woulard, lb. Alabama BATTING (31 at bats)-EMartlnez, Seattle, BATTING (3t at bats)-Bigglo, Houston, Tennessee. 82, Buffalo, Darryl Wren, db, Pittsburg Minnesota), Nolan Harrison, dt, Indiana A&M. 220, Miami, Roland Smith, db, Miami, .439; DHenderson, Oakland, .431; Espinoza. New . 432; TGwynn, San Diego, .389; Scioscla, Los State, Kan. 83, New York Giants, Ed McCaffrey, wr, 147, Tarrpa Bay, Rhett Hall, dt, California. Fla.221, San Francisco, Tony Hargaln, wr, Oregon . York, .419; Joyner, California, .415; Fletcher, Angeles, .370; Zelle, St. louis, .333; Caminiti, Stanford. 148, New York Jets, Blaise Bryant, rb, Iowa State. 222. Buffalo, Brad Lamb, wr, Anderson, Ind. 223, Chicago, .382. Houston, .326; DeShields, Montreal, .326; McGee, 149, Green Bay, Walter Dean, rb, Grambling. 150, New York Giants, Lamar McGriggs. db, Western RUNS-OHenderson, Oakland, 14; CRipken, San Francisco, .326. Fourth Round San Diego, Jimmy Lalster, I, Oregon Tech. 151, Illinois. Baltimore, 13; EMartinez. Seattle, 12; DHIII, RUNS-Oykstra. Philadelphia, 14; Jose, St. 84, New England, Scott Zolak, qb, Detroit, Riehle Andrews. k, Florida State. 152. CalHornla.11;Whlte, Toronto,11. Louis, 13; DeShields, Montreal, 12; RThompson, Maryland. 85, Cleveland, Pio Sagapolutele, dt, Indianapolis. Mel Agee, dt, Illinois. 153, Dallas, Ninth Round RBI-DHenderson, Oakland, 16; Fielder, San Francisco, 12; McGee, San Francisco, 10; San Diego State. 86, Phoenix, Dexter Davis, db, Mike Sullivan, g, Miami, Fla. 224, New England, O'Neil Glenn, g, Detroit, 14; CRipken, Baltimore, 13; JoCarter, WCiark, San Francisco, 10. Clemson. 87, Atlanta. Moe Gardner, nt, Illinois. 88, 154, New Orleans, Fred McAfee, rb, Maryland. 225, Cleveland, Raymond Irvin, db, Toronto, 12; Winfield. California. 12. RBI-Mitchell, San Francisco, 14; WCiark, Pittsburgh (from Denver through New England), Mississippi College. 155, Seattle, Mike Sinclair, Central Florida 226, Atlanta, Ernie Logan, de, Easl HIT$-DHenderson, Oakland, 22; EMartlnez, San Francisco, 14; Kruk, Philadelphia, 13; Sammy Walker, db, Texas Tech. 89, Denver (from de, Eeastern New Mexico. 156, Philadelphia (from Carolina 227, Denver, Don Gibson, nt, Southern Seattle, 18; JoCarter, Toronto, 17; Joyner, Calderon, Montreal, 11; Dawson, Chicago, 11; Los Angeles Rams), Derek Russell, wr, Arkansas. Houston), Andrew Harmon, db, Kent. 157, Cal. 228, Los Angeles Rams, Jeff Fields, dt, CaiHornla. 17; Puckett, Minnesota. 17. JCiark, San Diego, 11; Jose, St. Louis, 11. 90, San Diego, Yancey Thigpen, wr, Winston­Cincinnati, Richard Fain, db, Florida. 158, Arkansas State. 229, Green Bay, Dean Witkowski. DOUBLES-DHenderson, Oakland, 7; HITS-TGwynn, San Diego, 21; Biggio, Salem. Pittsburgh, Leroy Thompson, rb, Penn State. 159, lb. North Dakota. Eisenrelch, Kansas City, 7; RAiomar, Toronto, 7; Houston. 19; TFernandez, San Diego, 19; Dawson, 91, Detroit, Kevin Scon, db, Stanford. 92, Washington, Dennis Ransom. te, Texas A&M. 160, 230, San Diego, Andy Katoa, lb, Southern Whhe, Toronto, 7; 5 are tied with 5. Chicago, 17; JCiark, San Diego, 17; Scioscia, los Minnesota, Randy Baldwin, rb, Mississippi. 93, New York Jets (from Philadelphia), Mi<e Riley, db, Oregon. 231, Detroit, Darryl Milburn, de, TRIPLES-VIzquel, Seattle, 2; 31 are tied Angeles, 17. Tarrpa Bay, Tony Covington, db, Virginia. 94, New Tulane. Grambling. 232, Minnesota. Gerald Hudson, rb, with 1. DOUBLES-Jose, St. Louis, 5; 7 are tied York Jets, Mark Gunn, dt, Pittsburgh. 95, San 161, Chicago, Darren lewis, rb, Texas A&M. Oklahoma State. 233, Tampa Bay, T reamelle HOME RUNs-DHenderson, Oakland, 6; whh4. Francisco (from Green Bay), Mitch Donahue, lb. 162, Kansas City, Darrell Malone, db, Jacksonville Taylor, wr, Nevada 234, New York Jets, Paul CRipken, Baltimore, 4; KGbson, Kansas City, 4; 12 TRIPLE$-DeShlelds, Montreal, 2; Wyoming. 96, Indianapolis, Mark Vander Poel, t, State. 163, Minnesota ~rom Los Angeles Raiders), Glonek, dt, Arizona 235, Dallas, Damon Mays, wr, are tied with 3. Lankford, St. louis, 2; Oquendo, St. Louis, 2: Colorado. 97, Dallas, Curvin Richards, rb, Todd Scott, db, SW Louisiana 184, Green Bay Missouri. 236, Indianapolis, Howard Griffith, rb, STOLEN BASEs-Pettis, Texas, 6; Polonla. RThompson. San Francisco, 2; TGwynn, San Pittsburgh. (from Miami), Joe Garten, c. Colorado. 165, San Illinois. Calffornla, 6; Briley, Seattle, 4; 7 are tied whh 3. Diego, 2; WCiark. San Francisco, 2. 98, Seatlle (from New Orleans through Francisco, Scott Bowles, t, Nonh Texas. 166, 237, New Orleans, Anthony Wallace, rb, PITCHING (2 decislons)-8 are tied with HOME RUNs-Mitchell, San Francisco, 6; Los Angeles Raiders), John Kasay, k, Georgia. 99, Buffalo, Millard Hamilton, wr, Clark, Ga. 167, New California. 238, Pittsburgh, Bruce McGonnigal, te, 
1.000. Decker, San Francisco, 4; 6 are tied with 3. Cincinnati, Donald Hollas, qb, Rice. 100, Loa York Giants, Corey Miller, lb. South Carolina. VIrginia. 239, Cleveland (from Seattle), Shawn 
STOLEN BASE$-DeShields, Montreal, 9; Angelea Raider~ (from Pittaburgh through Wiggins, wr, Wyoming. 240, Houston, Shawn Coleman, New York, 7; Dykstra, Philadelphia, 6; New England), Raghlb lamail, wr, Notre Seventh Round Jefferson, wr, Central Florida. 241, Cincinnati, Dascenzo, Chicago, 5; Roberts, San Diego, 5. Dame. 101, Houston (from Seattle through New 168, New England, Blake Miller, c. LSU. Shane Garrett, wr, Texas A&M. 242, Philadelphia. 
PITCHING (2 decisions)-10 are tied with England), David Rocker, dt, Auburn. 102. Houston, 169, Green Bay (from Cleveland), Frank Blevins, Chuck Weatherspoon, rb, Houston. 243, 
1.000. Marcus Robertson, db, Iowa State. 103, Pittsburgh lb, Oklahoma. 170, los Angeles Rams, Tyrone Washington, Charles Bell, db, Baylor. 
.-----------------------------------------------------~---­
244, Kansas City, Robbie Keen, k, California. 245, Chicago, Mike Stonebreaker, 
lb, Notre Dame. 246, Miami, Scott Miller, wr, UCLA. 247, Los Angeles Ratders, Tahaun Lewis db Nebraska 248 San Francisco, Louis Riddick, db. Pittsburgh. 249, Buffalo, Mark Madd~x. lb, Northern Michigan. 250, New York Giants, Jerry Bouldin, wr, Mississippi State_. 
NOTE: Phoenix did not have a ninth-round seleclion because !hey selected Wtllle Williams In the supplemental draft. 
A look at the Chicago White Sox Stadiums 
10th Round 251, New England, Randy Bethel, te, Miami, Fla. 252, Cleveland, Bria~ Greenlield, p, Pittsburgh. 253, Denver, Curtis Mayfield, wr, Oklahoma Stale. 254, San Otego (from Los Angeles Rams), Roland Poles, rb, Tennessee. 255, Phoenix, Herbie Anderson, db, Te~as A&l. 256, Atlanta, Waiter Sutton, wr. Southwest Minnesota State. 257, San Diego, Mike Heldt, c, Notre Dame. . 258, Atlanta (from Detroit), Peter Lucas, ot, Wisconsin-Sievens Point. 259, Mtnnesota, Brady Pierce, t, Wisconsin. 260, T~ Bay, Pat O'Hara, qb, Soulhern Cal. 261. New York ~ots, At !:IaKer, ro, 1\entuCI<y. O!ti<!, ween tlay, Hap1er t'oner, te, Arkansas-Pine Bluff. 263, :ndlanapolis, Frank Gianenl. de, Penn State. 264, Dallas, Sean Love, g. Penn !:.tate. 265, Tampa Bay (from New Orleans), Hyland Hickson, rb, Michigan State. 266, 
Seattle, Erik Ringoen, IJ, Hofstra. 267, Houston, Curtis Moore, lb. Kansas. 288, Cincinnati, Jim Lavin, g. Georgia Tech. 269, Pittsburgh, Ariel Solomon, t, Colorado. 270, Washington, Chris Shale, p, Bowling Green. 271, Philadelphia, Eric Harmon, g, Clemson. 
272, Chicago, Tom Backes, de, Oklahoma 273, Kansas C~y. Eric Ramsey, db, Auburn. 274, los Angeles Aalders, Andrew Glover, te, Grarrbling. 275, Miami, Michael Trtley, to, Iowa 276, Siin Francisco, Byron Holdbrooks, nt, Alabama 277, Buffalo, Tony Delorenzo. g. New MeXIco State. 278, New York Giants, Luis Cristobal, g. Miami, Fla 
11th Round 

279, New England, Vince Moore. wr, Tennessee. 280, Cleveland, Todd Jones, g, Henderson State. 281, Los Angeles Rams, Terry Crews, lb, Western Michigan. 282, Phoenix, Nathan LaDuke, db, Arizona State. 283, Atlanta, Joe Sims, nt, Nebraska 284, Denver, Shawn Moore, qb, VIrginia 285, Detroit, Slip Watkins, wr, LSU. 
286, Minnesota. Ivan Caesar, lb, Boston College. 287, Tampa Bay, Mike Sunvofd, d1, Minnesota 288. New York Jets, Rocen Keeton, lb, UCLA 289, Green Bay, J.J. Wierenga, de, Central Michigan. 290, San Diego, Joaquim Weinberg, wr, Johnson C. Smhh. 291, Dallas, Tony Boles, rb, Michigan. 292, Indianapolis, Jerry Crafts, t, Louisville. 
293, New Orleans, Scott Ross, lb, Southern Cal. 294, Houslon, James Smith, db, Richmond. 295, Cincinnati, Chris Smith, te, Brigham Young. 296, Pittsburgh, Efrum Thomas, db, Alabama. 297, Seattle, Tony Stewart, rb, Iowa. 298, Philadelphia, Mike Flores, de, Louiville. 299, Washington, Dave Gulledge, db, Jacksonville Slate. 
300, Kansas City, Bobby Olive, w, Ohio State. 301, Chicago, Stacey long, g, Clemson. 302, Miami, Ernie Rogers, g, California. 303, New England (from Los Angeles Raiders through San Diego), Paul Asbury, p, Southwest Texas State. 304, San Francisco, Bobby Slaughter, wr, Louisiana Tech. 305, Buffalo, Dean Kirkland, g, Washlnglon. 306, New York Giants, Ted Popaon. te, Portland State. 
12th Round 

307, New England, Tim Edwards, dt, Delta State. 308, Cleveland, Elijah Austin, nt, North Carolina State. 309, Phoenix, Jeff Bridewell, qb, UC Davis. 310, Atlanta, Robert Christian, rb, Northwestern. 311, los Angeles Rams (from Denver), Jell Pahukoa, t, Washington. 312, los Angeles Rams, Ernie Thomspon, rb, Indiana. 313, Minnesota, Darren 
Hughes, wr, Carson-Newman. 
314, Tampa Bay, AI Chamblee, lb, VIrginia Tech. 315, New York Jets, Mark Hayes, I, Arizona State. 316, Green Bay, Linzy Collins, wr, Missouri. 317, San Diego, Chris Samuels, rb, Texas. 318, Detroit, Zeno Alexander, lb, Arizona 319. Indianapolis, Rob luedeke, c, Penn State. 320. Dallas, Larry Brown, db. Texas Christian. 
321, New Orleans, Mark Drabczak, t, Minnesota. 322, Cincinnati, Antoine Bennett, db, Florida A&M. 323, Pittsburgh, Jeff Brady, lb. Kentucky. 324, Seattle, Ike Harris, g, South Carolina. 325, Houston, Alex Johnson, wr, Miami, Fla. 326, Washingron, Keenan McCardell, wr, UNLV. 327, Philadelphia, Darrell Beavers, lb, Morehead State. 
328, Chicago, John Cook, dt, Washingron. 329, Kansas City, Ron Shipley, g. New. Mexico. 330, los Angeles Raiders. Dennis Johnson, wr, Winslon-Salem. 331, Miami, Joe Brunson, dl, Tenn.-Chattanooga. 332, San Francisco. Cliff Confer. de. Michigan Stale. 333, Buffalo, Stephen Clark. te, Texas. 334, New York Giants, Larry Wanke. qb, John Carroll. 


----~------------~­
The Observer 

BASKETBALL CHALLENGE SPM BOOKSTORE COURTS 
TREASURE HUNT 4PM ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
SLAM DUNK CONTEST 4:30PM BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL COURTS 
BLIZZARD OF BUCKS 8PM THEODORE'S 
\II II>I-. NT ll N ION BO/\IW 
page 16 

The Observer Wednesday, April 24, 1991 

Clemens silences Jays; Bosox roll 
Greenwell hit solo home runs. squeezed home the go-ahead hllve to feel good to pitch great. Boggs hit his third homer of the run in the 11th inning, giving He proved it again Tuesday season and second in two days, Goose Gossage his first win 
night. 
(AP} -Roger Clemens doesn't 
connecting in the third with a since 1989 as Texas beat Clemens extended his 
425-foot shot off rookie Denis Milwaukee. 
scoreless streak to 30 innings Boucher (0-1). Nick Capra drew a one-out 
with seven more shutout 
walk from Chuck Crim (1-1} frames and the Boston Red Sox 
Royals 6, Indians 0 and took third on Brian defeated the Toronto Blue Jays Storm Davis pitched a five­Downing's single Dan Plesac 3-0 for their sixth straight hitter for his first shutout since relieved and Stanley bunted his victory. 1985 and Kirk Gibson homered first pitch down the third-base 
Clemens (4-0) gave up five for the third straight game as line on a suicide squeeze. hits, struck out seven and 
the Kansas City Royals beat the 
walked four. He is the top Cleveland Indians 6-0 Tuesday Mets 3, Phillies 1 winner in the major leagues night. Jim Fregosi discovered and has not allowed a run since It was the fourth time the something all managers past
Indians have been blanked in
the second inning on opening and present already know: It's
12 games this season. They are
day in Toronto. hard to win when your team "After the first couple of doesn't hit. 
1-4 at home. innings, I didn't throw the ball Davis (2-1) pitched his first Ron Darling pitched six well," Clemens said. "I had to 
complete game of the season shutout innings and doubled for and only his third in the last
work hard and depend on my New York's only hit until the
five years, walking none and
defense. I thought I could go ninth Tuesday night as the Mets out there and relax a little bit, striking out four. beat the Philadelphia Phillies 2­but I couldn't get my legs 
1 and spoiled Fregosi's debut as
Yankees 5, Tigers 0 
working." manager.
Wade Boggs and Mike Don Mattingly ended the Fregosi took over earlier inlongest home run drought in his the day when Nick Leyva was career at 312 at-bats and Dave 
replaced after 13 games, theEiland and Steve Farr
Tyson and Holyfield camps exchange words 
third-fastest firing in majorcombined on a four-hitter, 
league history. But the Phillies'leading New York over Detroit.
NEW YORK (AP) -Evander as an alternate offer -a 50-50 -the World Boxing Council, luck did not change and they
Mattingly had not homered
Holyfield and Mike Tyson may split between the champion and World Boxing Association and lost for the eighth time in nine
.since last May 20 before
not be ready to rumble, but No. 1 challenger. International Boxing games.
connecting for a solo shot in the 
their promoters are. "They're both ridiculous," Federation. "We hit some balls hard but
first inning off Frank Tanana
Tyson's promoter, Don King, Duva said. "Fighters work too Traditionally, the champion just couldn't score," Fregosi, a
(1-2}. Mattingly missed six
launched a war of words hard for one guy to come away gets 7 5 percent in purse bids former Met, said. 
weeks late last season with
Tuesday against Holyfield and with nothing." and the challenger 25 percent. 
back trouble. 
his three closest associates -King claims a 50-50 split is The WBA, WBC and IBF Pirates 7, Expos 3 promoter Dan Duva, co-trainer fair because Tyson is a bigger originally ordered the winner of Andy Van Slyke and Barry
Athletics 7, Twins 5 
Lou Duva and manager Shelly draw than Holyfield. last October's Holyfield-Huster Bonds hit two-run homers and
Terry Steinbach hit a three­
Finkel. "Evander Holyfield can't draw Douglas title bout to fight Tyson Bobby Bonilla hit a two-run 
run homer in the first inning
During an informal luncheon flies to a dump," King said. next. But after beating Douglas, double as Pittsburgh beat
and Jose Canseco stole home as
with reporters, King repeatedly "Just because he's the Holyfield opted to meet Montreal for its fourth straight
Oakland broke a five-game
called Finkel and the Duvas champion doesn't mean he Foreman instead. The WBC victory.
losing streak by beating
"liars and deceivers," accused should get the most money. then threatened to strip its title John Smiley (3-0} struggled,
slumping Minnesota. 
Holyfield of ducking Tyson and When Muhammad Ali fought recognition from Holyfield, but giving up three runs on nine
The A's avoided their first six­
challenged the heavyweight Larry Holmes, Ali got $7 million a New Jersey state judge hits in 5 2-3 innings. Neal
game losing streak since shortly 
champion to a winner-take-all and Holmes got $3 million even blocked the move and ordered Heaton and Bill Landrum shut
after Tony La Russa became
bout against Tyson in though he was the champion. arbitration. The dispute still out the Expos the rest of the 
manager in 1986. 
September or October. That's because people came to hasn't been settled. way.
The defending American
"We'll fight him anytime, see Ali, not Holmes." The WBA and IBF ended up League champions got a boost
anywhere, anyplace," King said. Holyfield, who won a unani­sanctioning the Holyfield­Reds 3, Astros 1 
from Kirk Dressendorfer (2-1).
"The winner goes home with mous decision over Foreman, Foreman fight and continue to Rob Dibble, facing Houston
who allowed only two hits while 
everything, the loser goes home criticized King's 50-50 proposal recognize Holyfield as cham­for the first time since starting
the Athletics built a 6-0 lead
with nothing." Monday night during an pion. a fight with a fastball, tied a
through 3 1/2 innings. 
King said "the public wants appearance on the "The Tyson is scheduled to fight National League record with six this fight, I want this fight and Arsenio Hall" show. Razor Ruddock on June 28 in a straight strikeouts as Cincinnati
Rangers 6, Brewers 5 
Mike Tyson wants this fight, but "When I was the challenger, rematch of their controversial beat the Astros. 
Pinch-hitter Mike Stanley
Holyfield and his people are Tyson was going to get 7 5 per­bout last month, which Tyson 
trying to avoid it. It's a travesty. cent and I was going to get 25. won when referee Richard Boxing fans are tired of being Now that Tyson is the chal­Steele stopped the bout in the treated like Bozo the Clown." lenger, Don King doesn't want it seventh round. 
Informed of King's comments, that way. He wants Tyson to get King said Holyfield needs Dan Duva launched a half," Holyfield said. Tyson more than Tyson needs 
Summer 
counterattack. Dan Duva said he is willing to Holyfield because the chal­Duva said last Friday's negotiate the purse split, but lenger is more popular than the Holyfield-George Foreman fight "we're not going to debate it champion. 
STORAGE "breathed fresh air into the point by point in the media." If "Nobody comes to see sport. Now Don King has gone the two sides can't settle their Evander Holyfield. He has no 

RESERVATION L 683-1959 J
back to polluting the environ­differences by June 1, the pay­personality," King said. "With ment." outs would be decided in a or without a championship, 
• Al,I,ROX 2 1/2 MII..ES NOR'I'II US 31-33 
Duva dismissed King's win­"purse bid" by one of boxing's Mike Tyson is the most famous ner-take-all challenge, as well three main sanctioning bodies fighter in the world." 
Master Mini Warchou!'cs 
When the Great 
American Dream
THE GENERICS 
isn't greatenough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistanCe is available. 
Call or write for information: 
BONE FOREST 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541
IllALUMNI===== 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
SENIOR 
(219) 239-6385 
~!:CLUB 



Wednesday, April 24, 1991 
The Observer page 17 

Rockets blast into NBA playoffs 
(AP) -Take it from a semi­But the highlight comes when win by the Lakers at Houston neutral observer, the Los the Lakers, just the third seed Nov. 15. "If I do a good job Angeles Lakers' quest for an­in the West, take on Houston, against them, winning a cham­other NBA title could stop in the which won 31 of its last 41 pionship is easier. first round with the Houston games including a 28-5 streak The Lakers won the season's Rockets, one of the league's that began with star center series between the two teams 3 hottest teams. Hakeem Olajuwon on the side­games to 1, the same margin by 
lines with a fractured eye which they beat the Rockets in 
"This year, they have a better socket. the opening round of last year's shot than ever of beating the playoffs. But in 1986, they were Lakers," Denver's Orlando One key to the . Rocket resur­upset by the Hockets 4-1 in the Woolridge, an ex-Laker, says of gence is point guard Kenny Western Conference champi­the Rockets. "They have the ad­Smith, who finally established onship. vantage down low and their himself this season after float­guard play is so much better ing from Sacramento to Atlanta The New York-Chicago series than last year. and finally to the Rockets. He seems to be a mismatch -the 
"I think this is their year." was second to Olajuwon with a No. 1 seed in the East against 
If it is, it starts Thursday 17.7 scoring average and led No.8. night at the Forum, where the the team in assists with a 7.1 But the Knicks, 0-4 against Rockets take on the Lakers in average. the Bulls in the regular season, one of the five games that starts But while the Smith-Magic are remarkably confident for a the first round of the NBA Johnson matchup favors the team that was mostly down this playoffs. Lakers, the most important is season. They look back to a 12­
Vlade Divac against Olajuwon 2 run in March as a barometer 
In the other Thursday night in the only playoff series that of their ability. games, New York is at Chicago, matches foreign-born centers­"We know we're up against a Philadelphia at Milwaukee, Divac is from Yugoslavia; superior team," says New York Golden State at San Antonio Olajuwon from Nigeria. coach John MacLeod, whose and Utah at Phoenix. team finished 39-43 to 
The other three series start "This is the biggest for me," Chicago's 61-21. "We're not Friday with Atlanta at two-time says Divac, who was held to going to beat them three defending champion Detroit; seven points in the only game straight, but we're not going to Seattle at Portland and Indiana this season in which he faced Chicago to get our tails at Boston. Olajuwon, a 108-103 overtime cracked." 
Owens decides to leave Syracuse to try his luck in NBA draft 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -All­of signing a big-money contract Owens started all 103 games Owens joins sophomore guard gation of the allegations, first America forward Billy Owens as one of the top picks was not of his Syracuse career, finishing Kenny Anderson of Georgia detailed by the Syracuse Post­said today he will pass up his the deciding factor in entering among the school's career Tech and juniors Terrell Standard in December, and final year of eligibility at the draft. leaders in every major category. Brandon of Oregon and center NCAA investigators are report­Syracuse to enter the NBA "I'm not really in it for the His 1,818 points were seventh Brian Williams of Arizona as edly also questioning former draft. money," he said. "My dream best in school history and left underclassmen who announced players and recruits. 
"It was a hard decision, but I was to be an NBA player, just to Owens as the second highest­for the NBA draft. The deadline But Owens said today that he feel I'm ready for the next put an NBA uniform on." scoring third-year player be­is May 12 was not leaving school because level." he said at an afternoon hind Dave Bing. Speculation that Owens would of the possibility the program news conference. The Big East Conference's leave early was heightened by will be put on probation or hit 
Owens, a 6-foot-9 junior, is player of the year in 1990-91, "He's going to be very high in allegations that Syracuse's with other NCAA sanctions. expected to be one of the top Owens averaged 23.3 points, the draft," New Jersey Nets' basketball program may have "The investigation didn't really five players selected in the June 11.7 rebounds, 3.5 assists and senior vice president Willis repeatedly violated NCAA rules decide what I was going to do," 26th draft. 1.2 blocked shots a game last Heed said. "You can never tell. during the 1980s. The school is he said. "I doubt if the team 
Owens said that the prospect season. He could be No. 1." completing an internal investi-goes on probation." 
THE JERICHO SESSIONS 
an all-original Notre Dame CD Sampler featuring ... 
XYZ Affair Bone Forest
w 
A

Doghaus Chisel 
L L

SYR Jester 
A s N
5 O'Clock Shadows Chronic Desire D c The Turquoise Sidewalk A Fresh Water for the Horses T M Greg Jeffrey H B Ralph Falbo Trio B 
Tony Graffeo Little Geneva
D 
0

Brian Muller Don McGahn
w 
N

Exit 77 Sigi Loya 
Dominic Campanella & Chris Norborg 
On sale for just 8 bucks beginning Thursday at all An Tostal music events 
Questions ... call WVFI at 239-6400, 'cause those idiots sponsored this. 
page 18 Wednesday, April 24, 1991
The Observer 

Notre Dame still looking for a coach 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal says he doesn't anticipate any quick decisions on hiring a new basketball coach to succeed Digger Phelps. 
"We're not in an extreme rush, but neither do we want to drag it out." Rosenthal said. "Clearly, the sooner the better." 
The Irish this week began hunting in earnest for a replacement for Phelps, who announced his resignation last week after 20 seasons as head coach. 
Rosenthal didn't respond Monday to requests to confirm or deny the identity of candidates who may be under consideration. 
"I've talked to a couple of. people, but you couldn't call 
them formal interviews," he said. "It was just conversation. 
"We want to find a good coach, we want to find a good coach for our university, and we want to find someone who is a fine teacher." 
Former Phelps' assistants are still considered possibilities, he said. That would leave John Shumate of Southern Methodist and Danny Nee of Nebraska still in the picture. 
Bobby Cremins of Georgia Tech has also been mentioned as a possible replacement. "There has been a lot of speculation, but it's been premature," Rosenthal said. Cremins was out of town and could not be reached for comment. 
ESPN reported Tuesday night that Cremins was the leading candidate. 

One of the first calls went to former Irish assistant coach Pete Gillen, now the head coach at Xavier. Notre Dame was soon looking elsewhere. 
"I called the Xavier athletic director asked him to talk with Pete. Then Pete called me and said that he wasn't interested," Rosenthal said. 
The athletic director acknowledged a few interesting candidates haven't returned calls yet, although he's heard from others who won't get the job. 
"You have to remember that Notre Dame is right for a good many of us, but that Notre Dame is not right for everybody." 
Rocket offended in talks with Pats 
(AP)-In the end, green was the color that convinced Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to dodge the NFL draft and flee to Canada. But black and white also played a part in his decision. 
After the New England Patriots and Dallas Cowboys failed to meet his contract de­mands before the draft. Ismail signed with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League for a potential $26.2 million -the biggest deal in pro football history. 
But money wasn't the only reason he chose the CFL over the NFL. 
During negotiations with the Patriots, Ismail was offended by what he believed was a racist remark by team executive Joe Mendes. Ismail's agent, Ed Abram, also said the Patriots tried to "browbeat" the Notre Dame wide receiver-kick re­turner by insisting he wasn't an impact player and didn't de­serve the kind of huge contract normally reserved for star quarterbacks. 
"They repeated that over and over again," Abram said Monday. "They never acted like they really wanted the Rocket." 
What made matters worse was a comment by Mendes, the Patriots' director of player op­erations. During preliminary contract talks, Mendes sug­gested that Ismail lower his asking price. When Ismail looked away from him, Mendes reportedly snapped, "You have the attention span of Tim Worley." 
Worley, a running back for the 
Pittsburgh Steelers, and Ismail r-----------------------­
are black. 

Abram wasn't present during the meeting, but said Ismail later told him that he consid­ered the remark racist. 
"He found it quite insulting," Abram said. "He was really hurt by it." 
When Abram mentioned the incident to Sam Jankovich, the Patriots' chief executive officer apologized. 
Mendes won't confirm or deny that he made the remark, but says he is sorry if he offended Ismail. 
"If I insulted the gentleman, I truly do apologize," Mendes said. "He's a class individual 
0 ~~· 
«.._(/) ffo 
~0 
and I wish him nothing but the best." 
Abram says the incident didn't play a major part in Ismail's decision to go to Canada, even though Rocket mentioned Sunday that he was impressed by the "cultural diversity" and progressive racial climate in Toronto. 
"It was basically an economic decision," Abram said. "Regardless of Mr. Ismail's personal feelings. it came down to dollars and cents." 
However, Abram said New England's skepticism about Ismail's potential impact hurt the team's chances of signing him. 
"When you're trying to recruit a guy as unique as the Rocket, you don't beat him down with negatives," Abram said. "We believe Rocket is an impact player and a superstar. Obviously, the Patriots didn't agree." 
Jankovich denied that the Patriots minimized Ismail's tal­ent in order to drive down his asking price of $15.5 million over five years. But he admitted the team didn't think Rocket deserved a mega-contract. 
"He's not a quarterback," Jankovich said. "If you're going to ask for that kind of money, you have to handle the ball more than 10 times a game." 
After negotiations broke down with the Patriots, they traded their rights to the No. 1 draft pick to Dallas. But the Cowboys also refused to meet Ismail's salary demands and decided to take Miami defensive tackle Russell Maryland. 

"I just thought the price was too high," Jankovich said. "Rocket's people told us we would sell 10,000 more season tickets if we signed him. Frankly, I don't think he would mean 500 season tickets." 
"The name of the game is winning, and we need a lot more good players to win," Jankovich said. "To sink all our resources into one player would have been a travesty." 
One man willing to gamble on Ismail was Los Angeles Raiders owner Al Davis, who picked Rocket in the fourth round even though he had already signed with the Argonauts. The Raiders will retain the NFL rights to Ismail until the 1995 draft, about eight months after his CFL contract expires. 
The same strategy was suc­cessful with Bo Jackson. The Raiders drafted Jackson in the seventh round in 1987 after he failed to sign with Tampa Bay, which had picked him a year earlier. Jackson signed with the Raiders after the Bucs' rights expired. 
"It looks like Al Davis has done it again," Abram said. "He's always one step ahead of the competition." 
Asked if Ismail would eventu­ally play for the Raiders, Abram said: "Rocket has a four-year contract. At the end of four years, he's going to take a look around. If the Raiders are still interested. I'm sure Rocket will want to talk to them." 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.ft{ji/IV741VJJ $MeJ(JU$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's6. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 
CALL 233-2212 
D -<:­
aily Specials 9:&& 
~ 

THE COMMONS~, 
OPEN 2p.m.-36.m. 
SPOR1S BRIEFS 

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•Applications 
are being accepted for Observer sports writing positions. Give your name, campus address and phone number to Dave Dieteman between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. at the Observer office, third floor of LaFortune. 

•A 
golf clinic will he held today from 5:30 to 6:30 pm, presented by the women's golf team. Meet at the practice fairway on the ND golf course. Some clubs available. Register in advance at NVA. 


SPOR1S SHORTS 


Hertz
Best 
Best Truck Deal 
4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 T aledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks DYOilable or aiiiO<ations. All local and one-way rentals subioct to Hortz 
Penske standard rental qualificotions. © Her!Z Penske Truck Loosing, Inc. 1985. You pay for oos, .taxes, tolls, collision damage waiver, and porktng and driving vtokltions. Drop ot off at any participating Heru Ponske Truck Rontollocotion. 
Wednesday, April 24, 1991 The Observer 
page 19 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
3:30-4:30 p.m. Workshop: "Introduction to Resume Expert," by Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services. Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
4:15 p.m. A reading celebrating new books, Percival Everett (Zulus, For Her Dark Skin), and John Mattias (A Gathering of Ways). Hoom 122 Auditorium, Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by English department Graduate Writing Program. 
5 p.m. Golf clinic, presented by Women's Golf Team. Open to students, staff and spouses only. Must register in advance at Non-Varsity Athletics. Practice Fairway, Notre Dame Golf Course. Sponsored by Year of Women and Non-Varsity Athletics. 
7 p.m. Film: "Montenegro." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
8:10 p.m. Mainstage season play: "The Good Woman of Setzuan," Frederic Syburg, associate professor and director. Washington Hall. Sponsored by communication and theatre dt1partment. 
9 p.m. Film: "In the Year of the Pig." Annenberg Auditorium, Snfte Museum. 
ACROSS 20 Earl of Avon 55 Gallic gala 30 Part of a 
56 Cab or horse 1 Played craps 
trawler's gear 58 Wagner's "-­6 Whitney or 
Walkure"32 Most firmly Wallach secured 590n 
9 Fictional 35 Patio's cousin 61 Storm pellet 

salesman 38 Cowboy's need 
63 Spud14 Merman or 64 Savoie'sWaters 39 Heavenly summerhunter15 Staff 65 Sinned
40 Meara's partner 
16 Teed off 66 Chloroform's

43 First-aid items 
11 Area of cousin 45 "--entertain
authority 67 German article 
you"

19 Muster 68 Parings
46 Chaucer20 "Winner takes product
" 47 Circumference DOWN
21 A Redgrave 

parts 23 Conducted 1 Interdict 
49 Specialist 2 A neighbor of 24 Grain and liquor among builders Austria 26 Yellow jacket 51 Aswan and 3 Santiago is its 27 Guy Kariba 
capital 4 Moray 


5 Year in
-L-EC_T_U_R_E_S---------------ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Justinian l's reign 
Wednesday 6 Highly regarded 25 Arbitrates 
7 Ties successfully 4:15p.m. Lecture: "The Impact of Development on the Role of a Ivory Watson or 27 Compact Women-Latin America," June Nash, City College of New York, Charlie Fuqua, 
e.g. 29 Ran a blackjack 
116 O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by The Year of Women. 
9 Vatican City game 
coin 31 Fish with a
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Women to Antarctica," and audio-visual 
10 "-pro nobis" towed line 
presentation by Ann Bancroft, expedition leader. Notre Dame Loftus Center (behind JACC). Sponsored by The Year of Women. ~=+::::+.':-F.-1 11 Holdup target of 32 Monastery gp. 
Notre Dame 
Oven Fried Chicken 
Noodles Romanoff Bakt1d Chicken with Herbs 
sh Meatballs with Mushroom Sauce 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~0\J GB 1m 
'{()J CM~~ OE.Mt.RI1'5 ~ 
'tlt\.1.. You Gtl 
f!YE l)t~t.R\TS 

Gl'lt. ME. SINGING ~t 
RR I(JT ThKI~ 

\Jt.!J.t.Rii'S.' CLIJE *ln\EM 
Oft '(OIJR l-Ilt-\ 

l 0\!1~~'( BU~ IT' 
D\JRII'>IG \IS 

~00. w~s a-\ TI-l~ 
r\t.\.LC/111£1> ~f~ltt 

lt-GWDA! 
I 

'f{~T ~' I'M 0\C\AT~-t<:R.· Llft-1 I 1-\~>~Jt. 1'tN TIMES M 11-\POR\m<:£. cJi f>. LP'flL~ FIR5T T\Gt~! It-IIVI(DRE{) 
TIIA.£'5 .' ~ NtLLIOI( nMt-s .' 

~-fALjli) 
~ ~~\ z~•~
Cl~l;! ~ 
,, ~ \_'4 
Friday Saturday 

7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Women in Latin American Development," June Nash, City College of New York. Auditorium, Galvin Life Sciences. Sponsored by anthropology department. 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Meat Loaf Turkey Broccoli Divan Fresh Garden Quiche Deli Bar 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 

Thursday 

the old West 33 Small island 34 Mizzen material 36 Fingerstall 37 U.S.N.A. grad. 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
41 Madame Bovary 52 Beautify 42 Gotto 53 Accessed ore 43 More unfeeling 54 Origins 44 Type of truck 56 Mister, in 47 Ease up 
Munich 

57 Belgian flower capital &o Churchill's sign 50 Emulate 62 Prefix with corn Dorothy Hamill or color 
48 Moroccan 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

6r()£SS I ONLY HAVE MYSELF TO BLIIMe. NOH DID .SAY 1HIIT IF I Kt:PT DO/Nfn IHI.S My FACE WO()I..[) 
6itCK THIS WAY. 
~1;~~6· 
April 25 
'1/f"V' ~1 
/J'Mj(}/'1 

cushing Auditorium 
8:00p.m. and 1 0:30p.m. $2 STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, April 24, 1991 
Men's golf hot and cold at Akron Invitational 
By RICHARD MATHURIN ended with a three-day total of problems, but he's a solid Particularly surprising was the Sports Writer 902. Indiana also boasted the player," said Irish coach George 90 shot by O'Connell, who had top golfer of the tournament, Thomas. only a day earlier shot 1 under 
After opening with rounds of Shaun Micheel, who blistered O'Connell really found his par. O'Connell was not the only 311 and 301, the Notre Dame the course with rounds of 70, game on the second day hum­player to struggle, however, men's golf team learned 68, and 70 for a three-day total bling the difficult Firestone Crisanti shot an 83, while firsthand what a fickle game of 208. Country Club with a sparkling Dennen shot an 86. Only Nolta golf can be. The team shot a On the first day, the Irish 71. After a difficult first round, broke 80, shooting a round of 330 to wipe out any chance of gained confidence from the senior captain Paul Nolta came 79. placing in the top ten at the great shooting of junior Mike back to fire a round of 75, while ''I'm really not sure what Akron Invitational. The team Crisanti, who shot a career low Crisanti and Dennen added a 79 happened. It shocked me. It's ended up finishing last in the in college tournament play with and a 76 respectively. just one of those things that championship flight standings a 73. Junior Mike O'Connell and ''I'm pretty sure that that's happen in golf." commented with a three-day total of 942, sophomore Joe Dennen added the best round that a Notre O'Connell on the final round. which earned the team 18th­respectable 78's to the Irish Dame golf team has shot on a "I can't explain it. It was place honors overall. scoring good course in a long time," cold, but they played 11 hours 
"I was in doubt whether or not said Thomas. in the rain and cold in the sec­
Indiana took overall team I was going to take Crisanti, but Whatever the Irish had in ond round and shot a great honors shooting a three day to­I had a feeling he was going to round two, it completely de­round. I think it brought us tal of 878. Distancing second­break through, so I gave him a serted them in round three as back to the reality that we still place finisher, Kansas, which shot. He worked on refining his the team shot a tournament have a long way to go as a 
game and correcting some high 330 in round three. team," concluded Thomas. 
Softball team ready for Butler Bulldogs 
By Jennifer Marten 20-15 overall record and a 5-1 proved since last year," said Sports Writer conference record. Boulac. Tomorrow's game will mark The Irish hope to continue 
Yesterday, it rained on the the first time the teams have their current hitting streak in softball team's parade. Parade met this season. Leading the the games with Butler. The bats of hitting that is. Bulldog attack will be have been alive and kicking in 
The Irish pounded out 11 sophomore Stacy Wilson, recent games against Loyola, runs in just three innings Butler's top pitcher, with an 8-6 Dayton, and Saint Mary's. against Saint Mary's before it record and a 1.33 ERA. Wilson, "We are hitting the ball well rained hard enough to suspend hitting .337 with 19 RBis, will and if we can continue, we will play. Junior Missy Linn threw also be a threat at the plate. be hard to beat," said Boulac. five strikeouts in the rain­Other players who could "We are playing with confi­shortened game. cause problems for the Irish are dence and more intensity." 
The coaches will meet to­Butler junior Dawn Stavitzke, The Irish defense could morrow to discuss rescheduling .313 with 20 RBis and senior make' or break the game. All the contest. If the game is Mary Dury, .265 with 18 RBis. three pitchers, Linn, freshman played, it will be continued Notre Dame's six game Carrie Miller, and sophomore from the third inning with the winning streak could be in Staci Alford, are ready to go. score 11-0. jeopardy against the Bulldogs. Linn's record stands at 10-10 
Today, the Irish will face Irish coach Brian Boulac and she has a 1.40 ERA. Miller Midwestern Collegiate assessed Butler. "Butler is is 6-5 with a 1. 79 ERA and Conference foe, Butler in a having a fine season. They have Alford is 9-4 with a 1.49 ERA. doubleheader. The Bulldogs played well against conference Nonetheless, Notre Dame needs come to Notre Dame sporting a teams and are definitely im-to play error-free softball. 
Bookstore down to 32 teams Lacrosse wins big 
By DAVE MCMAHON years in West Virginia. Row Desert Storm, 21-12. Gillin and Rob Williamson, a
Special to the Observer 

Associate Sports Editor "The game was sloppy even "We play an up-tempo game rarity for the game of lacrosse. before the storm came, so it with tough defense, but the rain Leading the Irish were Throughout Bookstore didn't change things drastically in the second half caused some freshman Rob Snyder with two
The Notre Dame Lacrosse
Basketball XX, teams have had either way," said Preservati. turnovers that we normally goals and two assists, junior
team rebounded from their loss 
the opportunity to mix up the "After the outcome of this wouldn't have," the "Crime's" Mike Sullivan with two goals
to Ohio-Wesleyan on Saturday
outside shooting game with a game, we're hoping for another Tim Jennings. and one assist, and freshman
in a big way yesterday. The
strong game underneath. The downpour Wednesday." "We were happy to make it Mark Hexamer with two goals
Irish destroyed Lake Forest 18­
rains came Tuesday, however, With "Ad works" up next for this far," said "Storm" junior and one assist.
4.

forcing many teams to switch to the five men from Cavanaugh, Charlie James. "They had In total 13 different Irishmen
a slower tempo offense and rely they realize that a trip to the played together on their Notre Dame took 51 shots in
scored. during the victory
on physical forces from the big Sweet 16 would be nothing Interhall team, so we expected the lopsided victory versus 17
including defensivemen Pete
guns below. short of miraculous. the type of game they gave us." shots for Lake Forest. 
In what was perhaps the lone "We're just praying that the "Four Men With an Attitude" upset of the day, junior Sean football and basketball teams are up next for the "Crime", McLaren caught fire despite the have practice Wednesday," showdown which could be rain, pouring in nine points on McLaren said with a slight closer than expected. nine-of-ten shooting as "Crud, laughter. "We're both are made up of Silk of Magnesia, Chief, Doctor They may receive a downpour athletes that like to run it a lot," Dumb, and Culliflower" sur­of another kind this afternoon, said Jennings. "We should be prised "Multiple Scoregasms" as Tim Singleton and the talent­able to match up size-wise with 21-19. ladened "Adworks" squad, 21-5 them." 
"They're by far the best team winners Tuesday, look for Despite the conditions, the we've played," said McLaren. another trip to the finals. not-so-young team of the "They had great athletes, but "We're a really unselfish Bookstore Round of 64 contin­they just didn't come together team," said Bryant Dabney of ued to roll. "V's Revenge" as a team today." "Adworks". "We're looking to comprised of five law students 
With four different players run, but we'll take the first boasts an experienced lineup, taking high score honors in four available ·open shot." as the youngest player on the 
r 
previous games for "Crud, Defensively, "Adworks" has to squad is 24 years old. Silk ... ", McLaren's outburst was be considered one of the most due. dominant teams in the "We made it to the Final 8 my 
"You've got to give the game tournament. senior year, so hopefully we'll to the Chief (McLaren)." said "Tim Singleton is the best de­be able to redo what I did ten junior Jim Panacek, who put an fensive player around here," years ago," said Torsten abrupt halt to his Bookstore XX said Dabney. "No one can take Marshall, a double-Domer and days with a second-degree him one-on-one and he caused an eighth-year law student. ankle sprain earlier in the a lot of problems today." "We're slow plodders," said week. "It was great to see him "Team Bitter", five sopho­Marshall. "We run when we play so well because he wa~ mores from Zahm, outlasted a can, which isn't often." coming off a serious dry spell." scrappy "Paradise Jam", 26-24, "Revenge" didn't take kindly 
in the closest contest of the day. to the mid-game rain storm. 
While most of McLaren's "We knew they were pretty "As soon as the storm came, points were rebound baskets big and had great shooters, but we decided to get the hell out of and shots from the paint, we played with confidence and there, so we turned our game "Scoregasms" played a physical knew they could be beaten," up a little bit." game under the basket. said "Bitter's" Joe Virgil. Bookstore XX action heats up 
"Their big guy killed us on Off-Campus Crime entered even more today, with yester­rebounds," said freshman Nick the Round of 32 for the second day's winners advancing play­With a look of intensity, a player muscles his way inside during a 



Preservati, a two-time All-State straight year, using a balanced ing today for a spot in the Sweet game at Stephan. Bookstore games continued yesterday selection in his high school scoring attack in defeating Skid 16. despite the weather. 





