
VOL. XXIII NO. 118 THURSDAY I MARCH 28, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peralez ruling upheld; new election date set 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
In a special session Wednes­day, Student Senate upheld the decision of the Elections Committee to revoke the candi­dacy of Paul Peralez for Stu­dent Senate, and voted unani­mously to hold a second elec­tion between the other three candidatf~s for District 1. 
The candidates for the elec­tion. scheduled for Thursday, April 4, are Billy Allen, David Certo, and William McDonald. 
If a run-off is necessary, it will bn held Monday, April 8. Peralez's campaign was re­
voked Tuesday after the Elec­tions Committee found him guilty of campaign violations including unauthorized cam­paign material and defaming his opponent. 
"Paul Peralez's conduct was unethical, slanderous, and completely intolerable. I'm glad Senate voted to uphold its ethi­cal guidelines for campaigns and disqualified him," said Stu­dent Body President Rob Pasin. 
''I'm equally glad we are con­ducting another election so that the South Quad constituency can choose its representative to Student Senate," he added. 
Gordon-Murphy wins Senate seat race 

By DAVID KINNEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Tlw Jim Gordon-Brian Mur­phy ticket edged out the Kristen llarknett-EIIen Lanser ticket for the off-campus student senate position in a close election riddled with problems. 
Gordon, of Flanner. took 93 of thfl 182 votes cast. while llarknett, of Pasquerilla West, received 89 votes. 
The student government elec­tion eommittee tackled a vari­ety of obstacles throughout the proeess. according to Matt Caito, election committee chairman. After the voting was completnd, judicial board mem­bers from each dorm went to the student government office, counted the ballots, and recorded the results. Seven ju­dieial board members called in thll vote totals, which were record!ld by an election com­mittee member. 
Original vote totals showed that Gordon won by a margin of 100-90. llowever, Hark nett and Lanser noticed that the four votes from P. W.. their dorm, w11nt to Gordan. They questioned the figures, pointing out that they were positive that 
During the appeal. Peralez fielded questions about each of the five campaign violations, and asked the Senate to over­turn the decision and allow him to be judged by the majority. 
"Please, let the people vote," he said. 
Peralez's appeal was based upon his insistence that the magnitude of his offenses was small. He told the Senate that the posters in question were displayed only in Dillon Hall, "one dorm. for ten minutes." 
Allen later informed the Sen­ate that he had confiscated an additional unauthorized poster in Morrissey Hall. 
Peralez's request to have his candidacy reinstated was de­nied by a vote of 11-4. "The rules were amended recently to encourage creativity, not unethical conduct," said Pasin of Peralez's violations. "If (he) runs again, you destroy the credibility of the Elections Committee and of the rules themselves." 
Mark Bettencourt, off-campus co-president agreed. "Everyone has the right to disagree with the bylaws, but no one has the right to disobey them," he said. 
The Senate voted 13-2 in fa-

members of the dorm had, in fact, voted for them, not Gor­don. 
According to Rob Pasin, stu­dent body president. any ticket has a right to question the re­sults. 
Caito suggested that the bal­lots be re-counted. Caito then counted the ballots that had been turned in and added them to those votes that had been called in by dorm judicial board members. The results changed by eight votes, to 93 -89 in fa­vor of Gordon. 
Caito said that it was proba­ble that one of the j-board members miscounted or mis­recorded the votes of their dorm. 
There remained questions about whether the j-board member of P.W. had called in their votes or had brought their ballots into the office. If they had been called in, Caito said, the election would have been a tie. However, it was resolved that the votes had been brought into the office and had been among the ballots re-counted. 
The candidates were unavail­able for comment. 
A tornado touches down Tuesday, passing within one-half mile of Fairfield High School near Langdon, Kan. Witnesses at the high school estimated the tornado's width as one-haH mile. 
Goldrick to leave ND for Peace Corps 
Tormenting twisters 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life at the University of Notre Dame since 1984 and a 20-year mem­ber of the University's adminis­trative staff, will resign his po­sition in April to become the Peace Corps country director for the West African nation of Ghana. 
Goldrick served as a Peace Corps volunteer school teacher in Pattani, Thailand, from 1963-65. He met his future wife, Jacqueline, also a volun­teer, there. He will begin train­ing for his new post April 22 in Virginia and will leave for Ghana early in June. 
While Goldrick had not been actively searching for a country director position with the Peace Corps, he said he had "kept the fires alive" in the hopes that a position would become avail­able. The Peace Corps offered him the position in Ghana 2 1/2 weeks ago, Goldrick said. 
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, will assume Goldrick's responsibili­ties, with the help of Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, and Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for Student Services, for the rest of the semester. O'Hara said she 
Reported possible sex offense did not occur 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
The possible sex offense which was reported to Notre Danw S11curity on Sunday morning did not occur. according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
"Wp've had thrN• students call in. two involved in the incident and one student who was walking through the area during tho time the incident took plaef1. All throfl students stated that a sex offense dld not occur," Hurley said. 
The students involved were aetually playing football near the southwest corner of St. Joseph's Lake. They were taekling each other and throwing some shoes around, 
he added. Both men and women were involved. he said. 
After playing football, the students went to Lafortune and notieed the clock reading 
3:45 a.m. The incident had previously been reported to have occurred at 3:30 a.m., Hurley said. 
Because of the matching times and the witnesses, Security concluded that no sex offense occurred. 
"We are pleased students took such a quiek response," Hurley said. 
The students called Security after reading the article con­cerning the incident in Mon­day's Observer. 

John Goldrick 

does not know when a replacement will be selected. 
"John Goldrick's decision to return to the Peace Corps ex­emplifies the same Christian witness that he has evidenced in his 20 years of service to the University," said O'Hara. "John reflects the very best of what we try to model to our students. We are proud of his decision, but we will miss greatly the many gifts he has shared in his work with our students." 
As country director, Goldrick will oversee the training of all Peace Corps volunteers who come to Ghana. Between 85 and 100 volunteers work in Ghana for two years and are, as Goldrick put it "constantly replaced." 
In his current position, Goldrick has served as Notre Dame's chief judicial officer for vor of holding another election rather than naming Allen a Student Senator by default. 
They also voted 10-5 in favor of allowing all three of the other District 1 candidates to run in the election. 
Because the candidates had already spent much of their al­located funds for the previous contest, Student Senate will fi­nance the election. Each candi­date will be given $30. 
All candidates are being asked to remove posters from the first election and to post only the new campaign materi­als. 
APPhoiD 

students and has been directly responsible for residence hall life, hall assistant staffs.. stu­dent housing and discipline, campus security and alcohol and drug education program­ming. 
Goldrick believes that he has developed a good relationship with the student body. He called the ND students "the best undergraduate student body around. I'd match them against any other undergraduate student body." 
Goldrick said that his experi­ence with training members of the residence hall staffs. par­ticularly the residence assis­tants, will help him in his new job. 
The Republic of Ghana is a small West African nation slightly smaller than the state of Oregon. The official language of Ghana is English, although there are 50 tribal languages (which Goldrick said he hop11s to learn) also spoken there. 
see GOLDRICK/ page 6 


Last Publication 
This is the last issue of The Observer until Wednesday, April 3. The Observer wishes everyone in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community a safe and happy Easter. 
r 
Thursday, March 28, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Some handle stress better than others 
My younger brothers and 

how I began to wonder -----'=='--­what was wrong with me. 
And, of course, my family was ready and willing to tell me. 
They said I was stressed out. 
in mid 40s.  
City  H  L  
Athens  70  48  
IAtlanta Berlin  85 54  61 41  
Boston  49  38  
Chicago  75  56  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  81  67  
65  32  
56  51  
82  70  
84  70  
69  61  
55  41  
57  46  
57  43  
80  73  
28  25  
82  71  
43  
39  
44  
37  
41  



sisters told me that they  
didn't want me to  come  
home for Easter. When  
one has her nine brothers  
and sisters telling her that  
they would rather have  ~~»  
her stay at school than  Ann Marte  
join the family for the  Hartman  
biggest spring holiday of  Assistant News  
the year, you can imagine  Editor  

Stressed out, no kidding. But I really 
73 44

thought that I handle my stress well. 
84

Yet, much to my chagrin, my family thinks 
45 

otherwise and used this past spring break as 
evidence for their complaint. 

They recounted for me the number of trips I 
made to the library over vacation, as well as 
the nights I was too tired to bond with the 
TODAY AT AGLANCE
family after spending a long day with the books. They claimed that I have forgotten how to have fun. 

NATIONAL WORLD 
My family, however, didn't remember that the very next week I had two mid-terms and 
UN omits Zubin Mehta's link to Israel 
three papers due. I'll admit it, I was stressed. 
'New Kid' sin~er charged with arson 
•UNITED NATIONS -A concert for world peace
College academics are stressful. But if my 
•LOUISVILLE,y. -New Kids on the Block lead singer 
Wednesday night has been stirred by a "tempest in a
family thinks I can't handle stress, they 
Donnie Wahlberg was charged with first-degree arson 
tympanum" -a Jewish group's complaint that U.N.
should see some of my friends. 
Wednesday following an early morning fire at the hotel 
publicity didn't mention conductor Zubin Mehta's link~ toFor example, the other night I was at one of 
where he and the rock group were staying.Wahlberg was 
Israel. Mehta just completed a tour of U.S. and Canadianthe more popular hangouts on campus, that 
freed on $100,000 cash bond after turning himself in and 
cities as conductor of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra.
being the Pit in the basement of the library. 
arrived at Freedom Hall late Wednesday afternoon for 
A statement from B'nai B'rith International said the
A few of my friends and I were taking a 
the group's sold-out concert. Wahlberg was ordered to 
omission of Mehta's status as music director of the Israelbreak and it came to my attention that one of 
appear in Jefferson District Court on April 11. Earlier, 
Philharmonic from publicity on the event had the effect ofthe girls I was with was just staring. She was 
two of the group's security guards were arrested on 
"politicizing a strictly cultural event." The United Nations looking at the rest of us and it seemed like 
disorderly conduct charges and that led to an ars~n 
supports the Palestinian cause and regularly distances
she wanted to say something, but words 
investigation of the blaze at the historic Seelbach Hotel m 
itself from Israel -on Wednesday, the Security Council
couldn't come out of her mouth. We later 
downtown Louisville. Sanders said Wahlberg allegedly 
issued its fifth denunciation of Israel's deportations offound out that she had a test, a paper, and a 
poured a flammable liquid on a rug on the ninth floor of 
Palestinians. The New York Philharmonic sent a detailedproblem set due the next day. 
the hotel and set it on fire sometime early Wednesday 
biography to the U.N. Department of Public Information,She was stressed. 
morning. There were no injuries and no major damage. 
stating that Mehta is music director for life of the IsraelMy roommate is another one whose stress 
Sanders said the Louisville Division of Fire obtained the 
Philharmonic Orchestra and an honorary citizen of Tel
level we can examine. She is a chemical 
arrest warrant for Wahlberg. Conviction on such a charge 
Aviv. But Mehta's connection to Israel was not issued inengineer and is taking eighteen hours of what carries a penalty of 20 years to life imprisonment. 
the official U.N. news release on the event.
I would call the most grueling classes on campus. 
Britons Back Antarctic Mining Ban 
For those of you who know her and have 
Explosion in~ures at least 22 people 
•LONDON -An environmental group has won the
seen how her hair is spiked, she might have 
•FORT WOR H, Texas -An explosion rocked a 
support of some prominent Britons in a campai~n-to
told you that it was gel that created this 
restaurant Wednesday, collapsing sections of a floor, 
preserve Antarctica as a nature reserve and ban m~mnguplifting effect. But the fact of the matter is, 
shooting glass into a parking lot and injuring at least 22 
there. "Antarctica is unique," Lady Philippa Scott, Widowbefore she came to college she had flat hair. 
people, one critically. The cause of the 3:30 p.m. 
of Antarctic explorer Sir Peter Scott, told a news
She uses the gel excuse as a cover for the 
explosion at a Colonial Cafeteria in the city's hospital 
conference sponsored by the Worldwide Fund for Nature.
truth. 

district was under investigation, but a worker at a nearby 
"It is the highest, driest, coldest, windiest, most fragileShe is stressed. 
business said he smelled natural gas 50 yards away. 
and pristine continent. I believe we should have theIn comparison to my peers, I have this 
Large sections of the cafeteria's first-story concrete floor, 
wisdom to know when to leave a place alone. "The naturestress thing kicked. I certainly don't have a 
which Halcomb estimated at 18 inches thick, collapsed 
fund collected 800,000 signatures on a petition calling for 
problem talking and my hair is very flat. 
into the basement. Howard Matson, a spokesman for 
creation of a reserve on the uninhabited continent, which Being stressed is simply a part of life. 
Lone Star Gas, said he was told the explosion occurred in 
is larger than the United States and Mexico combined.
And for the record, I can be just as wild and 
the cafeteria basement. Lone Star found no indication of 
The group hopes to have 1 million signatures to presentcrazy as the next person. I really can. Don't 
a gas leak. Matson said the company was called to the 
to delegates from the 39 nations of the Antarctic Treatybe so surprised! 
area the day before to check reports of a gas odor and 
System when they meet April 22 in Madrid for the nextSo, to my many brothers and sisters, it's found no evidence of a leak. 
round of a cold war over the fate of the continent. 
time to bargain. In compensation for your patience with me during Spring Break, I promise over Easter that the sister you love, adore, and worship will be back to her old self. But, of course that is just the kind of "I know how to deal with my stress" person that 
I am. OF INTEREST 
The views contained in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not nBcessarily 
•south Bend: 2001 Walk to Live the Vision is being •Have the urge to write? Walk up to the third floor of 
those ofthe Observer. 

sponsored today by the Michiana Coalition for Peace and Lafortune and begin your reporting career. Join the Justice. Interested persons should meet at the War Obsrver staff. Your mom would be proud! Memorial at 2:45 p.m. to begin the walk to the Vietnam Memorial at Howard Park. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY
Today's Staff: 
News Production 
Business
Peter Loftus Ann Buff 

• In 1910: In France, Henri Fabre performed the first
Colleen Gannon 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 27, 1991
Megan Junius Cheryl Moser 

seaplane flight in Martigues.
SystemsSports 

VOWME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX JiL _
Gra~hlcs 
Pat Barth 

• In 1933: Nazis in Berlin ordered a ban against Jews in
Malk McGrath Pat idden 
0 32201.83 Million 205.32 v

Brian Stalter 


business, professions and -schools. 
S&P COMPOSITE .m...
Scoreboard VIewpoint Circulation
Rene Ferran Barb Moran 

375.35 v 0.95 
• In 1955: John Marshall Harlon was sworn in to the U.S.
Chris Hanely Shannon Ryan Lu Medeiros 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
Supreme Court. 
Accent Rich Riley
Michael Whitman 

2,917.57 .2.72 
• In 1961: In Jackson, Miss., club-swinging police with PRECIOUS METALS 
dogs routed 1 00 Negroes from a courthouse. 
• In 1980: Mount St. Helens, a dormant volcano inGOLD • $1.30 to $ 356.30/oz.
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday 
Washington state, showed its first signs of activity since 1857. 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER • 4.6¢ to $ 3.835/oz. 
• Five years ago: The Senate passed a $1 oo million aid
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
package for Nicaragua's contras. 

·= ~: 
·~ ~: .: 


Partly sunny and much cooler today. Highs 45 to 50. Cooler tonight, low 
7!Z.tli'>>''"''J near 30. Partly cloudy Friday. Highs 


Thursday, March 28, 1991 The Observer page 3 



Expert discusses sexuality and drinking 
By JOE GODIN 
News Writer 
The combination of sexuality and drinking result in tho dis­tortion of sex role expectations, inhibitions and effects on women, psychotherapist Mary 
Cecilia  Hoerner  told  an  
audience  in a lecture  
Wndnesday.  

Hoerner, who has 20 years of experience in working with al­cohol-related problems, spoke of the sexual beliefs and expec­tations as one of the most im­portant issues involved with drinking of sexuality. 
"If someone believes that the consumption of alcohol in­creases sexuality or sociality, there is a greater tendency for that person to want to drink," Hoerner explained in a lecture titled, "Aphrodite and Alcohol: Myths. Mistakes and Truths About Sexuality and Alcohol." 
She went on to say that although the person has greater sexual expectation after heavy drinking, there is also lower sexual performance, lower testosterone level, dis­torted communication, and lack of orgasm associated along with that. ' 
Roemer gave some startling statistics about the effect of al­cohol on women. These in­cluded the fact that two-fifths of women on college,campuses drink heavily, women absorb one-third more alcohol into the bloodstream than men, and that women risk depression when consuming alcohol at a 
2:1 ratio. 
Roemer also noted that alco­hol use by women result in more extroverted behavior, in­creased sexuality especially if the man buys the drink, and more serious health problems. 
Date rape is one of the most dangerous problems associated with alcohol and sexuality. In one-half of the reported date rapes either the victim or the assailant had been drihking. Women are seriously affected by a date rape situation. 
"Many women refuse to ac­knowledge that they have been raped," she said. "The guilt they feel cause the women to lose control and self-esteem." 


ND students speak on changing male roles in society 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
ND students in the gender studies department gave a pre­sentation Wednesday on changing male roles in society, examining various male groups, including house-hus­bands, black fathers and ho­mosexual fathers. 
The speakers, in a lecture ti­tled, "Male Perspectives of Gen­der Equality and Changing 
1~1 
Male Roles," said they felt that presenting the male view of changing gender roles is important because "gender studies does not mean women's studies." 
The first topic presented con­cerned married fathers. Differ­ent views of the proper male role were contrasted, including a chivalric ideal who is excep­tionally polite to women and renaissance man who is ex-
Italian Pasta 


~ ~ A "All Homemade-100% Real Cheese" -=:,• Special 7 Courae Dinner • Charcoal Chicken & Steak , ,; Privoro Porites 288-3320 Bonquor Room 
lltMHUTUIWCIICAMI"\A ~IOPfWAif.A.\1£. 

BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FREE DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & ND 
SPECIAL  
LARGE 18" PIZZA  $12.00  rwon••u•n  
SMALL 12" PIZZA  $ 5.50  rwont•u•n  
OFFER EXPIRES 8.21.1111  


On college campuses, one out of every four women has experienced date rape. 
Roemer asked the seniors in attendance to offer advice to freshmen about the use of al­cohol. One senior commented, "The best" way to show a freshman about alcohol use would be to show him a good time without using alcohol." 
Roemer concluded her lecture by explaining some of the characteristics of responsible drinking. "Responsible drinking is drinking that facilitates social interaction, involved •in a relaxing time out from a hard day's work, and drinking that does not cause embarrassment or problems for people close to the user." 
Roemer also emphasized the importance of making deci­sions. "Most people go as the evening goes. I emphasize that people make conscious deci­sions before they go out." 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the Year of Women and the Office for Alcohol and Drug Education. 

pected to do anything. 
As a result of the many dif­ferent and often conflicting ideals, "men are unsure" of what behavior to adopt. 
The increasingly common role of the house-husbands was also explored. Some of the conditions for a fulfilling experience as a house­husbands are the voluntary 
adoption of the role and  a  
supportive extended family,  a  
speaker said.  

The role of married fathers was then compared with that of single fathers, said the speaker. The over one million single fa­thers in the U.S. face the con­flicting stereotypes of an "extraordinary, noble father who is also incompetent at raising children," said one speaker. 
The community, by way of these stereotypes, sends the message that "men don't be­long in the domestic sphere." However, because of the in­creasing divorce rate, "an emerging class of single fa­thers" may change these views. 
Another class of males stud­ied was black males, who are often blamed for many of the ills of black women and chil­dren, according to one speaker. Currently, the majority of black children born in the U.S. are born to unmarried mothers, which was not the case in the 1970's. 

However, the main reason for this increase in unwed births was shown to be poverty, said the speaker, which was caused by a change in the national so­cial structure. 
Because the education of blacks has not kept up with "changes in the economy and structure of the work-force," jobs have been harder to obtain for black males. 
This hardship has been com­pounded by welfare laws which place the married at a disad­vantage in receiving benefits. The problem for black males is their lack of control of a "social structure changing to their disadvantage." 
The final male group studied was homosexual men. Accord­ing to a speaker, studies indi­cate that 10% of the population is homosexual, and 20-25% of gay men have been married at least once. 
It was noted that many ho­mosexuals who marry are not conscious of their sexuality and "come out" after children are born. 
Contrary to popular miscon­ception, said the speaker, chil­dren are able to deal well with the news of a parent's homo­sexuality and many "actually 
1991 
SUMMER SESSIONS BROCHURES NOW HUHILHBLE 
Courses offered In areas of: 
Arts & Sciences Business Education Professional Studies 
For more Information, call or write: Xavier University Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 (513) 745-3601 
Xavier Unlvershy Is an academic corrmunlty commlned to equal opportunly for al pe111ons regardless ol a e. sex, race, roll ion, handicap, or nallonal or ln. 
feel closer to their father be­cause he has trusted them..-in revealing an important secret. 
Men who are fully aware of their homosexuality may marry because of pressure from fam­ily and society or because of a desire for children, the speaker said. In both cases, the mar­riage is unlikely to last. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Department of Gender Studies. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, MARCH 25 
5:25 a.m. A University Visitor reported the theft of her black gloves from the JACC arena. 
10:45 a.m. Security responded to an accident at the corner of Lake Road and Old Juniper Road. A light pole was dam· aged in the accident. 
12:15 p.m. Security questioned a subject who had been caught attempting to take compact discs from the Bookstore. 
1:39 p.m. A Grace resident reported the theft of his watch from his dorm room. 
3:57 p.m. A Grace resident reported the theft of his keys from an office in the North Dining Hall 5:10p.m. An Alumni resident reported the theft of his bicycle from the basement of Alumni Hall. 
5:20 p.m. A Lyons resident reported the theft of her wallet from her unlocked dorm room. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 26 
12:30 a.m. A University Village resident reported a unknown male attempting to steal a bicycle from the University VIllage Apartments. The suspect dropped the bicycle and fled. Security searched the area but was unable to locate the suspect. 
2:50 a.m. A Flanner resident reported vandalism to a telephone located In the Flanner Hall lobby. 6:10p.m. Security discovered two subjects riding four-wheel quad motorcycles on University property west of Ironwood Road. curity advised the subjects that the land was the property of Notre Dame. 
Supportresearch. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1991 
N. Dakota Senate okays strictest anti-abortion bill 
To read on our beach, you have to book in advance. 

BISMARCK, N.D. (AP)-The North Dakota Senate on Wednesday approved what could become the nation's most restrictive state abortion law and sent it to Gov. George Sin: ner, who has hinted he will veto it. 
Senators voted 32-21 to en­dorse the bill, which bans abor­tion except in cases of rape, incest and endangerment of a woman's life. 
The proposal already had passed the House. 
"All life, born and unborn, is sacred," state Sen. Donna Nalewaja said during the 34­minute floor debate. 
Opponents castigated the measure. "By voting yes, we ' =·.<-'. are showing a complete lack of respect and confidence in the
~· '_.A.<~-: .,;";':'>'::"'•" ,...-!.~,..w\-....._..-:c"' 
women of this state," said state 
AP Photo 
Sen. William Heigaard, the Se­
Fallen giant 

nate's Democratic majority 
Don Hoyle, superintendent of Humboldt Redwoods State Park, and Doug Correia, chief of mainte­nance, inspect the Dyersville Giant, the fourth-largest tree in the world, which fell Sunday night. 
Man facing death penalty represents self 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. (AP) ­Jason Maurice Day, who faces the electric chair in the slaying of four people, including a 5­year-old boy, questioned prospective jurors Wednesday after winning the right to rep­resent himself. 
A Superior Court judge ruled Tuesday that Day could act as his own lawyer after warning him of the folly of doing so. 
"I don't have a list of wit­nesses. I just b,ave myself," Day, wearing frayed khaki pants, black sneakers and a gray sweatshirt, told prospective jurors. 
Day is charged with four counts of murder and one count of capital felony murder in the shooting deaths of the four in a Bridgeport apartment building March 17, 1990. The victirris, who included Day's girlfriend and her son, were shot in the head. 
Two public defenders are acting as advisers to Day, whose hands and feet were shackled when he was escorted to and from the courtroom by four sheriff's deputies. He was unshackled in the courtroom. 

Day, who occasionally took notes and frequently conferred with the public. defenders, spoke softly and appeared ner­vous when it was his turn to question possible jurors. 
McKeever had to remind Day when it was his turn to begin questioning. 
"Oh," Day said,. sitting up in his chair and turning his atten­tion to the prospective juror. "I just want to ask you a few basic questions, if you don't mind," he said. 
Day, held at Hartford Correc­tional Center, took control of his case earlier this month when he demanded an immediate trial despite his court-ap­pointed lawyer's objections. He then announced he planned to represent himself. 
"I choose myself being that it is my life we are speaking about," Day said during a hearing March 5. 
On Tuesday, McKeever asked Day if he had "heard the old 
Namr 

(and send you a reading list). 
School Address 
Cily 

State Zip 
!lome Address 
Cily 

State Zip 
Northwestern University 
Summer Session '91 
Think or swim. 
I'm thinking. Send me a free copy of the Summer 
Session '91 catalog with financial aid and registration 
information (available in April). 
Please send the catalog to D my home. D my schooL 
Northwestern University Summer Session '91 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650 
adage -he who represents himself has a fool for a elient?" 
"I would be just as big a fool to put my life in the hands of attorneys appointed by the state to be against the state," Day said. 
Day faces many pitfalls, said Michael Sheldon, a law profes­sor at the University of Con­necticut. 
"There are so many complex­ities in the process. There are so many rights that he stands to waive by failing to assert them or asserting them in an untimely or uncertain manner," Sheldon said. 
Because of McKeever's warn­ing, Day will not be able to ap­peal on grounds that he wasn't adequately represented, Shel­don said. 
Day was arrested in Balti­more one week after the slaying of Raymond Gibson, 27; Gibson's sister, Lisa Gibson, 24, who police described as Day's girlfriend; Theresa Hamilton, 27, and her 5-year-old son, Ge­orge Green. 

Preregister by mail; we'll save you a seat 
leader. 
Sinner has three days to sign or veto the bill, or let it become law without his signature. He has said he thinks the bill "goes too far" by declaring that life begins at conception. 
Two-thirds of the members elected in each chamber would have to agree to override a veto. 
The Senate vote falls four short of the 36 needed to over­ride. The House voted 64-39 in favor of it, falling short of the two-thirds majority of 71. 
The bill has the potential of becoming the strictest state abortion law, say the National Abortion Rights Action League in Washington, D.C., and the Chicago-based Americans United for Life. 
Utah, since January, has had the toughest state abortion law. 

Thursday, March 28, 1991 The Observer page 5 





Kurds report new gains as U.S. stays neutral 
(AP)-Kurdish rebels today reported new gains in their struggle against the govern­ment of Iraqi President Saddam I lussein. Rut the United States underscored its neutrality in the civil war that has raged since Saddam's forces were de­feated one month ago by the allies. 
"We don't intend to take a role in the internal fighting that's going on in Iraq," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters on Tuesday. 
In a sign of growing chaos in Iraq, food riots broke out today in the allied-controlled border town of Safwan, which is filled with thousands of hungry refugees fleeing the fighting. 
The riot broke out with the arrival of Saudi Arabian food trucks. "We tried to be orga­nized, but the people are just too hungry," said Maj. Youssef Ali Albouri of the Saudi mili­
tary. "They see the food and they go crazy." No serious injuries were re­ported in the food riots. 
The Kurdish rebels, who con­trol a wide area of northern Iraq, claimed today they cap­tured two government war­planes while overrunning an air base near the northern oil center of Kirkuk. The claim could not be independently confirmed. 
One Kurdish group today claimed heavy civilian casual­ties were being inflicted by gov­ernment air attacks. A state­ment from the Kurdistan Democratic Party in London, telefaxed to The Associated Press in Cyprus, said more than 1 ,000 people were killed in the past week in air attacks on the northern cities of Kirkuk, Kefri, Dohuk, Kalar and Tuz Khormatu. 
The Iraqi government has tacitly admitted it is struggling 

FROM MARCH 27th TO APRIL 10th THE GORCH GAMES ROOM WILL BE GIVING AWAY A DESIGNATED GAME TO THE HIGHEST SCORE ON THAT GAME. VISIT THE GORCH FOR MORE DETAILS [AND, NO, THE GAME IS NOT RAMPART.] 


to repress the rebellion in the north. However, the official newspaper AI-Jumhuriya claimed the "mopping up pock­ets of saboteurs in the northern areas" was going according to plan. 
The newspaper also said to­day that Iraq has restored "peace, stability and order" to southern Iraq. The State De­partment and the Pentagon said Tuesday that Iraqi forces were believed to be consolidat­ing control of the south. 
The temporary cease-fire that ended the war stipulated that Iraq keep its warplanes grounded, but there have been several violations and U.S. warplanes shot down two Iraqi jets last week. 
U.S. forces continue to occupy a large area of southern Iraq but have made no·'attempt to keep the Iraqi helicopter gunships from flying combat missions, which rebel groups claim have been used to drop mustard gas and napalm on in­surgents. 
On Tuesday, the White House was non-committal on what the United States would do about Iraqi forces' use of helicopter gunships. 
Fitzwater did say Iraq's use of the helicopters was a violation of an understanding between Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, the commander of U.S. forces in the gulf, and defeated Iraqi military leaders. 
But the helicopters do not ac­tually violate the conditional cease-fire agreement, he said. 
"This was an understanding that was reached in discussions between Gen. Schwarzkopf and it was a side, oral discussion ­nothing in writing," he said. 
Fitzwater was vague about how the allies would respond to continued Iraqi use of the gun­ships. 
"The fact is ... we want to be murky on this," he said. "We aren't going to tell you exact rules for how we're going to deal with these helicopters. We aren't going to tell you why, and we aren't going to tell Sad­dam why. Let him guess." 
Schwarzkopf, for his part, said he regrets his decision in a March 3 meeting with Iraqi commanders to permit the Iraqis to fly helicopters. 
"I think I was suckered be­cause I think they intended, right then, when they asked that question, to use those heli­copters against insurrections that were going on," he said in an interview with David Frost scheduled for broadcast tonight on PBS. 
The Desert Storm comman­der also revealed that he rec­ommended continuing the ground war beyond the time President Bush ordered an end to the fighting. 



< A Reminder > ~ A Poetry Contest 
in honor of The Sesquicentennial Year 
Open to alumni, current students and staff, and present and fonner faculty members 
A prize of $500 dollars is offered for the chosen poem selected by the judges. The winner will be brought to the campus for SY celebration and a reading of the poem. The prize-winning poem will be selected from entries from the four aforementioned categories, with runners-up from each category possible. 
The poem need not be directly concerned with Notre Dame, or the Sesquicentennial, though submissions which touch upon the themes of the Sesquicentennia I (Belief, Inquiry, Community) will be looked at with special intere~t. 
Previously published poems are not eligible. Send entries (no more than 3 poems) in triplicate, with no name on the poems themselves, but on a removable coversheet, by April 15th, 1991, to SY Poetry Contest in care of The Department of English, University of Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
U.S. soldier dies in truck accident 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­A U.S. Army soldier was killed Wednesday when the water truck he was driving crashed, the U.S. Central Command reported. 
A command spokesman said a soldier in the five-ton truck was seriously injured. The truck was carrying a 5,000­gallon water tank. 
The names of the soldiers were not immediately released. Also, the location and cause of the accident was not available early Thursday from the spokesman, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
The soldiers were members of the 418th Water Company, 136th Quartermaster Battalion, 2nd Combat Suppport Com­mand, 7th Corps. 
The Pentagon had previously reported 108 non-combat deaths during and after Opera­tion Desert Storm. A total of 124 soldiers were killed in ac­tion. 
. 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1991 

Singapore police kill 4 Arab hijackers 
SINGAPORE (AP) Americans and blaming and Philip Choong, weFe Commandos burst into a America for problems in their slightly injured when they were Singaporean jetliner on the air­country," said Roger McGovern, pushed from the plane while port tarmac today and killed a businessman from Sydney. negotiations dragged on, police four Pakistani hijackers min­"These guys weren't playing said. utes before the terrorists said games. They carried in their An afternoon daily, The New they would would start slaying hands things that looked like Paper, said "it is understood the passengers, officials said. huge (fire)crackers, eight two provided vital information 
The attack on the hijackers, inches long by three inches and to the police that helped in the who were armed with knives knives six inches long," said storming of the plane." and explosives, ended a nearly McGovern, 48. Two of the commandos were nine-hour ordeal for the 126 "They poured cognac· around treated for minor hand injuries, passengers and crew, who in­the plane and threatened to ig­officials said. cluded three Americans. Two nite it," McGovern said. A Pakistani diplomat, commandos and two crew Singapore's Home Affairs Commercial Counsellor Abdul members were slightly hurt. Ministry confirmed that the Hafiz Mirza, condemned the hi­
Communications Minister Yeo cockpit, cabin floor and some jacking. He tentatively identi­Ning Hong said it was over "in passenger seats were doused fied the hijackers as Sadam a matter of minutes" after the with alcohol and the hijackers Mohd Khan Jadoon Fida, Syed anti-terrorist squad struck. threatened to set fire to the Hussein Soomro, Javed Akhtar 
Police said the hijackers, who plane. and Mohd Yusof Mogul. He said seized the plane on a flight to The Singapore Airlines he had no other information Singapore from Malaysia, were Airbus A31 0 was on a about them. demanding the release of a scheduled flight from Kuala In Islamabad, a senior mem­number of people detained in Lumpur on Tuesday when it ber of Bhutto's party, Salman Pakistan, including the was commandeered. Taseer, disavowed any associa­husband of former Prime A provisional passenger list tion with the hijackers and Minister Benazir Bhutto. included 55 Malaysians, 21 charged Pakistan's Islamic 
Passengers said the hijackers Singaporeans and 12 Japanese coalition with masterminding had threatened to make an plus other nationalities, said an the hijacking to defame American their first victim and official of the civil aviation au­Bhutto's party. set fire to the plane. thority. A complete list was not The hijackers seized Flight 
An Australian passenger said yet available. SQ117 10 minutes into the 40­one of the hijackers held a U.S. Embassy spokesman minute flight from the knife to the throat of an Dennis Donohue said three Malaysian capital to Singapore. American man, saying he Americans were on the flight The plane landed at Changi An Egyptian zoo keeper plays with Saadaiya, an elephant tortoise, would be the first one killed. but declined to identify them. International Airport at 10:15 believed to have been a present from Empress Eugenia of France 
"They seemed to be against Two stewards, Bernard Tan p.m. to Egypt in 1891. 


Goldrick ***************************************** 
continued from page 1 * 
Goldrick graduated from ND * in 1962 with a bachelor's de-* 

* Pt.zza * *~ 
gree in history. After his service S in the Peace Corps and two* o~E * 
years as an English teacher in * o'l \,. * 
his hometown of Hamilton, -...1 eo Ohio, he returned to ND in* .:'JE.~ 1 ' Delivery & Carry out * 
1967 as a graduate student and* ~ * admissions counselor. He ~
s
earned a master's degree in* a As near as your phone * counseling psychology in 1970. * W (\ * Following a year as a coun-\ selor at the American Commu-* *
271 0200
nity School in Beirut, Lebanon, * -* Goldrick returned to ND in* * 1971 as director of undergrad-:1 uate admissions, a position he * , f\\)S 1740 South Bend Ave * 
held until assuming his current * .. LJ E, * duties. ,-. In 1984 he earned a law de-* South Bend, IN" * gree from the ND Law School. * * Goldrick and his wife have 
three children. His son Sean is* *
f R E E D E L I V E R Y 
a sophomore and daughter,* * Shaheen is a freshman at ND. His daughter Shannon, a fifth-* * 
fe~dpea:!~tse~~·G~~~:.ccompany** PIZZA SIZES: 10"1 12"1 14"1 16" * 
Goldrick said that Shannon * had mixed feelings about the * • * move. "She doesn't want to* topp1ngs: * leave her friends, and she doesn't want to leave what's* Black Olives Green Peppers Mushrooms * 
familiar to her, but she's willing* * to go on a new adventure with Canadian Bacon Ground Beef Onions 
her parents." * * Goldrick said that he will al-* Green Olives Jalapeno Peppers Pepperoni * 
ways love his experiences at* * Notre Dame, which he called . Morning Bacon Pineapple Sausage
"the most wonderful thing that * *
* 

has happened to me." 


Do it out of respect for the dead. A11d the living. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<IIATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM., 

American Heart ia Association ~ 

* Tomatoes Anchovies Ham 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
~ 1 Free Topping 1 Free Topping_ Bring any pizza coupon ~
* 
small medium large small medium large and receive a

* 
10" 12" 14" 10" 12" 14.. FREE 2 Liter of COKE *** $4.22 $6.11 $8.28 $4.22 $6.11 $8.28 *


* *Does not include tax Does not indude tax Does not indude tax Free Delivery
* Free Delivery Free Delivery Not valid with any *
* *
Not valid with any Not valid with any other offer other offer other offer 
** EXP. 4-5-91 ** 
EXP. 4-5-91 EXP. 4-5-91
*~--------~----~ * 
*****************************************
This space provided as a public service. 
Thursday, March 28, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Liberal arts majors in good shape for jobs, says visitor 

environment aid the success of the job searcher. 
"California, Texas, and Florida are three states of fast growth, and dynamic activity," he commented. 
Wallace explained that all students face these factors as they attempt to secure a job. He said a student with a spe­cialized background has more immediate success, but be­comes limited as technology advances rendering jobs and information obsolete. 
By MINDY DILLON News Writer 
The opportunities and ad­vantages for students with a liberal arts background will eventually balance out those for students with technical training, according to Wayne Wallace from Indiana Univer­sity's Career and Placement Center. 
"From a long term job per­spective it does not matter what major a student chooses," he said. "Emphasis should be placed on interest, not on re­sume appearance." 
In a lecture Wednesday, Wal­lace explained that automation, mobility, population patterns, and life styles are among the major determinants in job op­portunities. He said that stu­dents with a general liberal arts background, in contrast to those more specialized degrees, are usually more adaptable to the changes instigated by these factors. 
"An anthropology major or history major is not as suscep­tible to pigeon holing as an ac­countant," he said. 
Wallace advised that due to the fundamental reliance of the business world on computers, a student should not leave col­lege without a basic under­standing of this tool. 
He further commented that a willingness to move to accom­modate a business's need is crucial to securing a position. He explained that knowledge of the consumer and flexibility in 

Refugees fleeing turmoil in Iraq pile atop a dump truck with their belongings as they pass through the U.S.-controlled Checkpoint X-Ray in Occupied Iraq Tuesday. 
NO Board member named head of homeless shelter 

Special to The Observer 

Louis Nanni, mission director of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orlando, Fla. and member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, has been appointed director of the Center for the Homeless effective immediately, according to Father Hichard Warner, chairman of the Cen­ter's executive board. 
Nanni graduated from Notre Dame in 1984 and received a master's degree in the Univer­sity's Institute for International Peace Studies in 1988. As a vol­unteer in the Holy Cross Asso­ciates program, he did lay mis­sionary work for the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross in Santiago, Chile, between 1984 and 1986. 
He has been a member of the Florida Coalition for the Home­less and is a regional represen­tative in the Fellowship of He­turned Overseas Missionaries. As mission director of the Or­lando Diocese, he was respon­sible for the selection and training of missionaries sent to the Dominican Republic. Before being elected a Notre Dame trustee in May of 1990, he was a member of the advisory coun­cil for the University's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
The Center for the Homeless, located in a renovated building which formerly housed Gilbert's Men's Store at 813 S. Michigan St. in South Bend, was estab-

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER THE WOMEN'S LEGAL FORUM THE YEAR OF WOMEN 
PRESENT 
A LECTURE 
BY 
PROFESSOR CASS SUNSTEIN UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SCHOOL OF LAW 
ON 
"ABORTION, PORNOGRAPHY AND SURROGACY ARRANGEMENTS" 
12:00 NOON ROOM 220-LAW SCHOOL 
COURTROOM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3 
In contrast, the general lib­eral arts major, Wallace said, acquires transferrable skills, such as writing and speaking which can be utilized in multi­ple areas such as personal goals and interest become more defined. 
Wallace concluded by advis­ing students to use all the re­sources offered by the Career and Placement center. "The go­ing price for such services off campus is the same for an at­torney -a hundred bucks an hour." 
..;,;;-. 
Louis Nanni 
lished in 1988. It is adminis­
tered by a board representing 
Notre Dame, the United Reli­
gious Community, the City of 
South Bend, and the Council of 
Providers of Services to the 
Homeless. 
The Center employs nine full­
time and six part-time staff 
members and makes use of 400 
volunteers each month. Accord­
ing to Tammy Oehm, operations 
director of the Center, the 
facility provided 29,429 nights' 
lodging and served 59,849 
meals last year. 
250 attend hemp rally in West Va. 
GASSAWAY. W.Va. (AP)­About 250 marijuana users. hemp supporters and civil rights advocates staged a rally Wednesday at a National Guard armory over the objection of West Virginia's Guard com­mander. 
Adjutant Gen. Joseph Skaff tried to cancel West Virginia HEMP Inc.'s contract with the Guard after he learned the group advocated the use of marijuana. 
A federal court said the Guard could not discriminate against the group. 
''I'd like to thank General Skaff for the publicity," West Virginia HEMP founder Rodger Belknap said at the rally. 
The event featured national and regional hemp advocates who are on a 75-city tour to promote the non-recreational use of the plant. which can be used to make marijuana, as well as fuel, fiber and paper. 
Steven Hager, editor of High Times magazine, described Belknap as "a great American patriot" and said the govern­ment was losing the war on drugs. 
"It's (hemp) growing on every corner in every state," Hager said. 
Among the speakers was a masked man dressed in black who called himself the "Lone Reefer." 
''I'm a symbolic representa­tive of 50,000 Americans in cages now for using hemp," said the Pittsburgh man, who refused to give his name. 

---------------~-~----------­




Business 
Thursday, March 28, 1991 


Business as usual 

Passengers wait in line at the Midway Airline's ticket counter in Chicago Tuesday despite the an­nouncement that the financially strapped airline has filed to reorganize under Chapter 11. Midway's filing reflects efforts to cope with rising fuel costs and decreased passenger travel due to the Gulf War. 
Does your chewing gum lose its flavor? Thanks to a new federal patent, it won't 
IIOI.LYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -Chcwing gum might not lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight using a patent announced Wednesday. 
Columbia Laboratories ob­tained a federal patent for the sustained-release of flavor in­gwdients in gum, and the time element can be tailored to the product, said Helen Witters, vice president of the pharma­ceutieal company. 
"It can last a long, long time," she said. "In early testing, we had one that lasted five hours." 
However. the company does not plan to get into the chewing gum business and has not con­tacted gum makers, Ms. Witters said. 

"We're interested in develop­ing products in the health care field, but we certainly don't plan to get into the candy in­dustry," Ms. Witters said. "We're strictly into health care products." 
The patent was the result of research that showed an insol­uble, microscopic polymer car­rying the flavoring can be im­pregnated into gum, said Ms. Witters. 
"This technology works wherever there's mucosa, and there's mucosa in the mouth," she said, noting the same tech­nology could be used as a deliv­ery system for medicine to fight gum disease and other drugs. 
Columbia plans to license the technology for commercial ap­plications and use the money to support product development. 
The Hollywood-based com­pany had concentrated on women's health-care products, notably the vaginal moisturizer Replens using similar technol­ogy. 

~®~)y ~®W)) 
~£)y I1£~[;ill~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°k APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. YOU MAY ..AlfY FOR ANY OF THEFOUOWING LOANS BASED ON YOUR SIGNATURE. -MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. ~QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1 °k APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! fl4.. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from Ihe University 
page 9 




Administration projects an economic recovery 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
U.S. economy shrank at an an­nual rate of 1.6 percent in the final three months of 1990, a significantly smaller downturn than previously reported, as spending on the Persian Gulf military buildup helped to cushion the decline, the gov­ernment said Wednesday. 
The new Commerce Depart­ment report on the gross na­tional product -the country's total output of goods and ser­vices -raised hopes that the current recession will indeed be short and shallow. 
Some private economists said the administration may well be proven correct in its forecast of a return to GNP growth in the April-June quarter, but they cautioned that huge, leftover debt from the 1980s was likely to dampen a recovery. 
The Bush administration, however, held to its optimistic belief that the country is on the verge of a rebound that could rival the peacetime record for growth set in the 1980s. Trea­sury Secretary Nicholas Brady noted that a variety of business barometers are flashing recov­ery signs. 

"We have seen the first tan­gible signs of a turnaround," Brady told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He cited a big jump in consumer confidence follow­ing the end of the Persian Gulf War and February increases in sales of existing homes and new home construction. 
"The return to positive growth will be based on strong exports, lower and more stable oil prices, increased credit availability, lower interest rates and renewed consumer confi­dence," he said. 
While the administration is projecting growth returning quickly to levels above 3 per­cent a year, private economists were much more pessimistic, predicting a weak recovery be­cause of the huge debts being carried by consumers, busi­nesses and the federal govern­ment. 
Some analysts also ques­tioned when the turning point might come. While some said the recovery could begin in the second quarter, as forecast by the administration, others said that an upturn might not ap­

pear before September  - or  
even later.  
Analysts  said  that  the  

strength will have to be found in consumer spending because export growth. the main bright spot last year, is likely to be held back by weakness in America's major overseas mar­kets. 

Given the fact that more than 1 million people have already lost their jobs and paychecks since June, however, analysts said that consumer buying power will be constrained even though surveys are showing a jump in confidence levels since the end of the war. 
"Consumers can be as confi­dent as they want, but if their financial ability to go out and spend is not there, it won't do anything for the economy," said Paul Getman, an economist with Regional Financial Associ­ates of West Chester. Pa. 
Allen Sinai, chief economist of the Boston Co., called projec­tions for a March economic re­bound premature. He forecast a return to positive GNP ligures by September but said widespread debt burdens would likely produce growth rates far below 3 percent. 

MARK CERRONE, 
FROM THE GUYS:
IS THAT A 
JON, ERIC,
DOUBLE­
JAY, JASON,
BARRELLED 
JEREMY, TOM
BANANA IN 
AND DAN

YOUR TROUSERS OR ARE YOU JUST HAPPY TO BE 21 ??? 
'-. 



Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, March 28, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising. Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor.................... John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
otat1ng statue wou d help foster sense of belonging 
Dear Editor: 
As residents of Lewis hall, we are constantly reminded of our seclusion from the rest of the campus by our view of Mary's back atop the dome from our dorm. In such a university envi­ronment which places a great emphasis on the Notre Dame family, one naturally would as­sume that a frontal view of Mary would be present to all. We especially feel distressed that, during this academic year of the woman, no one has pro-
DOONESBURY 
f'FT5R, I'M TAlX/1'6 70 7H/3 CJePUTY lrl1N/5Tel<.. OF 
INFORMATION He/?13 IN 
Ki.JWAITCI7Y.' GeTRe417Y RJ~ 5011/3. FIRE/A/OR/<5/ 

posed a solution to the dilemma. 
We suggest the installation of a mechanical device which would enable Mary to rotate in a full and continuous three hundred sixty-degree circle. That way, everyone will be happy, and we can truly call ourselves a part of the Notre Dame Family. 
Shannon L. Neptune Kelra E. Kazmerski Lewis hall March 22, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
I write to respond to Grace Chen's letter of March 20th. Before addressing Miss Chen's philosophy, her misconceptions about the University's admis­sion's policy need to be cor­rected. Chen states, "It is an accepted fact that our university can legally discriminate on the basis of religion." In fact, while the University reserves the right to consider religious affiliation in admissions, it does not. Approximately 85 percent of the people who attend this University are Catholic, but approximately 85 percent of the people who apply are also Catholic. Obviously, the answer to Chen's question, "Will a black protestant be admitted to the University as readily as a black, white, or Hispanic Catholic applicant?" is an unqualified yes. 
Chen's use of statistics is also faulty. Chen says, "Approximately 13.1 percent of the undergraduate students are of minority backgrounds and approximately 13.4 percent are not Catholic." From this fact Chen concludes that non­Catholic, minority applicants are discriminated against and that if Notre Dame shed its Catholic character the Univer­sity would experience a flood of minority students. In fact, Notre 

Liberation comes only through Christ 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Dame's regrettable lack of minority students is not due to its Catholic character; it is due to Notre Dame's high tuition, whi~h-tragically-too few minorities can afford. 
Chen's mastery of philosophy is no better than her under­standing of the facts. Chen asserts, "The University will have to choose between cultural diversity ar:.d its Catholic char­acter for the two aims are po­litically and mathematically in­compatible." First, Chen under­stands neither religion nor mathematics. Religion deals with qualities not quantities. 
Mathematics is neither Protestant, Catholic, nor Jewish. Second, politics and religion are of two different dimensions: Politics deals with the temporal, while religion deals with the eternal. The two are intertwined, but not inter­dependent. Catholicism is nei­ther democratic nor republican, as it is neither male nor female, Black nor white. 
Chen also flatly asserts that Notre Dame cannot "give its students a truly liberal educa­tion as befitting the idea of a university if it chooses to main­tain its Catholic character" and that "it is in the best interests of a university to provide a sec­ularized environment." If Chen understands "a truly liberal ed-and women, to the extent that they recognize that God has become man, has died and risen for them. Historically, this Grace is encountered in the companionship of the Church. 
We work so that the value of this can be recognized by all. 
Anna Ballarino 
Joel Barstad 
Leslie Barstad 
David Schmitt 
Paolo Sottopietra 
ucation" as secular, as she ap­parently does, than it is her idea of a university that is ex­clusionary, not Notre Dame. For Chen, only secular education is legitimate. 
Notre Dame, however, rightly embraces both the secular and spiritual in its pursuit of knowledge. As such, Notre Dame is more open to truth since it values all paths toward wisdom. 
Catholics believe in religious diversity because they respect the individual's need to love God freely. Chen's secular vision of diversity, however, reflects an inability to take a position on ultimate values. A diversity that is premised on indifference to truth is not worth having. A society that can not tell the difference between right and wrong meets one test for insanity. When Chen advocates that Notre Dame join the secu­lar, spiritless, valueless world of relativism, she urges we follow the path to nihilism. 
In closing, I say to Grace Chen: the beauty of the idea of Notre Dame is that it includes you; the ugliness of the idea you espouse is that it excludes Notre Dame. 
Katy Blakey Badin Hall March 25, 1991 
Dear Editor: 
It seems to us that the follow­ing judgement on the war in the Gulf, made by the Catholic movement Communion and Lib­eration, is one worthy of your readers' attention: 
"The war, fought to the bitter end despite the appeals of he Holy See for a negotiated solu­tion, is over. 
The extent of the tragedy is still not clear. All of the political problems of 
the Middle east which preceded the war remain unsolved. 
The world power, which is ever more decisive and united, is pleased with itself and with its own violence, which today is called 'the new world order." 
In this situation we are even more convinced that liberation, that is, a peace which leads to the growth of man's humanity in his work and fraternal coex­istence, is given by the spread­ing of a communion among men 

'I know God is alive because I talked to him this morning." 
Billy Graham 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
~-----~------------------------------·------------------------------------------------~ 

Viewpoint ·­
Thursday, March 28, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame Honor Code is meaningless formality 

Dear Editor: quizzes and tests throughout minutes left in the period. Why? that it is wrong to cheat, and One Notre Dame student has 
The strong sense of pride grade school, middle school and Because you know it is morally they maintain their integrity in his own reason for despising <tmong the class of 1991 over high school, they all sat back wrong! their academic endeavors be­the honor code. Early freshman being members of the first and unquestioningly watched as The trust implicit here is cause of this knowledge, not year, during an exam, he graduating class in Notre Dame their teachers would remain in heartwarming. But one ques­because a priest on a movie spotted a shifty character sitting history to operate entirely the room to make sure that the tion looms large. What on earth screen tells them it is against in front of him glancing under the honor code is rapidly cretins did not borrow answers is wrong with professors the "honor code" not to. repeatedly at his neighbor's subsiding. from equally dense neighbors. proctoring their own exams? Under the honor code, the paper. He immediately rapped 
It is being replaced by an They must feel used. Students never had and still professor is supposed to leave his pencil on his desk to indi­nqually powerful feeling of fear, But then these innocent stu­have no quarrel with the pro­the room during an exam. I cate his discovery of the dis­as seniors now realize that they dents grew up as Notre Dame cess. Students do not look upon can't remember more than two honesty. He became concerned will soon be forced from this freshmen. They were given a professor at an exam as some or three tests in four years when his pencil made no noise haven of honesty, trust and in­their own rooms and then authoritarian ogre eagerly during which the professor has on the desk. He became tegrity and flung headlong into ordered to share them nicely awaiting an opportunity to actually left the room. Profes­alarmed when he realized he a world teeming with deceitful. with people they didn't even accuse a deceitful slimeball of sors stay because they believe had been rapping his neighbor's scheming, amoral, low-life liars know. They were being placed cheating. Most likely, students that part of their jobs as teach­knuckles instead. devoid of any sense of human on the road to adulthood, and view a professor's presence in ers is to administer and watch dm~ency. the honor code was the fuel that the room as a sign that he or over their exams as well as to His neighbor was a very large 
Nothing against these former would help them reach their she is too worn out to get up answer questions from con­individual, and apparently do­Notre Dame graduates. Their destination. and drive to the Hut. fused students. Most students ing poorly on the exam, for he utter lack of virtue is not en­You will not cheat on your Nobody respects the honor are grateful that their teachers was far from happy. After the tirely their fault since they did exams, the University told code. The belief that students disregard the guidelines of the exam, they both came to a not choose to attend Notre them, because you are now ma­will be more honest or moral honor system. quick agreement that this honor Dame during pre-honor code ture young adults. In fact, the than they already are by signing This University claims that code was not a good thing. At days. But the kind of scandal University continued, we trust a disclaimer at the end of an more cases of student dishon­all. and corruption that pervaded you so much that we will even exam that says, "Hell no, I esty are brought up before this lawless campus until 1987 send our professors to Pizza didn't cheat!" is a joke. If the committees than students know. Did this event really happen? had not been seen since the Hut during your exams. But University really thought of If this is true, the cases should Scout's honor. days of Boss Tweed. Or was that while they are wolfing down students as mature young made known, without names, to Boss Jlogg? their Personal Pans. the Uni­adults, it would realize that let the student body and the 
Studnnts in the class of '91 versity concluded, you will not there is an implicit honor code faculty know that the honor Eric Werge wore hopelessly naive before let your eyes wander from that in college. Students here al­code is not simply a Off-Campus rnaehing this finn institution of blank bluebook staring up at ready know through their meaningless and irritating March 25, 1991 highnr learning. When handed you , Aven if there are only five families and former teachers formality. 

Peace activists cannot celebrate U.S. 'victory' 
Americans will grow callous use an offensive military strat­some understanding of the cul­any constructive lessons from instead of helping other coun­and self-righteous. The United egy. This seems to be the result ture and history of the opposing this war. tries become more militarized. States must not forget to ask of a "bandwagon' effect. A ma­side. Most importantly, it is A preventive lesson should be when problems arise, a country itself some critical questions. If jor argument for individuals critical not to prejudge and that the U.S. and its allies need that has been strongly milita­Americans learn the wrong who supported the war was, "It think you possess a complete to adhere to higher standards in rized with American aid will be 
lessons from this war, we, as a is necessary to support the understanding of the situation their foreign policies. This much more likely to use force, 
country, could be easily duped troops now that the fighting has at hand. Such an outlook, un­means not selling arms or giv­possibly against our interests. into supporting another, begun." However, anyone who fortunate because it seems to be ing military advice and support A final lesson should be that perhaps even more destructive, took the trouble to honestly endemic to many people, leads to human rights abusing gov­if, we, a member of the war in the future. learn about the positions to missed opportunities to truly ernments like Saddam Hus­community of nations really 
We have been particularly of­advanced by the peace move­achieve any semblance of a sein's (not to mention others want to break the cycle of 
fended by those who accuse the ment would have no doubt non-violent or less-violent such as the government of El violence in our world, we must p!lace movement of not being about how strongly those inside outcome. Salvador). Saddam Hussein's be less willing to resort to it to concerned with justice and of the movement support the The use of violence tends to atrocities did not start on Au­solve crises like the one in the 
not being attuned to the harsh troops and realize most of the produce a cycle where violence gust 2, 1990. Anyone who has Gulf. If we are more forceful in realities of situations. Many arguments advanced opposing is met with more violence and read Amnesty International re­our commitment to making eco­who have supported the war the war are soundly grounded the conflict escalates unneces­ports for the last few years nomic sanctions stick (excluding 
pointed to the gross violations in reason. sarily. For example, the human knows that Iraq has one of the food and medicine should of human rights committed in But it is easier to be in the rights abuses appeared to have worst records of human rights shortages arise) and Kuwait as a justification for of­majority and to dismiss the escalated in Kuwait just before abuses in the world, from the negotiations bear fruit, and less fensive military action. We other side as being naive and the ground war began, as many gassing of innocent Kurdish forceful in our use of arms, we completely empathize with "stuck in the 60s." Rather, Kuwaitis were randomly shot or villagers to the imprisonment, may be able to resolve future those who supported the war dismissing the peace movement taken prisoner. Iraq had every torture and execution of politi­crises without going to war. for this reason, for it is pre­because of its radical elements incentive to "waste" Kuwait cal prisoners. Aggression cannot be appeased, cisely because we are so horri­("look at those hippies burning before being driven out so as to Yet the United States tacitly but confronting and beating it fied by such violence that we police cars in San Francisco") is make a mockery or our supported Iraq and our allies with these non-violent and many others in the peace naive, because it allows the "victory." We do not mean to sold it weapons in the Iran-Iraq alternatives is the ultimate 
-
movement opposed going to non-violent alternatives pro­blame the United States for war because we felt we shared victory. In this way, both war. We do not mean to say that posed by the voices of reason these atrocities and we con­a common enemy in Iran. This aggression and the cycle of vio­the American military would within the movement to be au­demn the Iraqi offenders in ev­was done despite Iraq's human lence are stymied. The world commit such atrocities, only tomatically discredited and ob­ery way. We only wish to illus­rights record and despite the community had ample opportu­
that we did not want to see any scures the important issues. trate how the cycle of violence fact that Iraq was the aggressor nity to win such a victory in this more violence brought on by Life is much simpler when we feeds on itself, making bad sit­in that war. Now that this has crisis but now it will never be 
, war. Unlike the way this war can just accept what is told to uations even worse. With the come back to haunt us, we known if such a complete vic­has often been portrayed, no us by the government, and not advent of bombing, an escala­should realize that governments tory could have been obtained. war is clean and surgical. In­critically examine everything tion of further violence was with such records may be our Therefore, we cannot celebrate credibly unjust and destructive that the Pentagon allows the easier to justify and carry out. friend today, but can easily turn the American "victory" in this mistakes are made, such as the public to be told and shown, So just how do we halt and into our foe tomorrow, and a war. To us, it represents a fail­
, bombing of the shelter in and to consider what is not prevent actions like the invasion more strengthened foe if we aid ure of past policies and a failure Baghdad which burned alive being revealed and why. and brutal occupation of Kuwait them militarily. If we want to of our will to truly seek both hundreds of innocent civilians. A lesson that needs to be without resorting to war and demonstrate that aggression peace and justice. "War is hell" because it cannot learned is that before any war and abuse of human rights are
more violence? How do we stop ·­
avoid such injustices. can be supported, it is neces­the cycle of violence in which wrong and do not pay, we Tara E. Verdonk Throughout the war, our sary to question the objectives our world seems to be caught? should never condone them Pasquerllla East government has received motivating the common view These are the critical questions directly or indirectly. Ellen A. Feeny alarmingly high approval rat­that "this war is a necessary America should be asking itself However, placing a high value Breen Phillips ings concerning the decision to evil." It is essential to have at this point if it hopes to learn on human rights in foreign pol-March 25, 1991 


--. Accent 
page 12 March 28, 1991 


Martyred 
NO alumnus Alvaro Villa gave everything for his cause-including his life 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY projects in the areas of Accent Writer infrastructure, education, health, and production. The job Thirty-five years ago, Notre of coordinator involved work­Dame alumnus Alvaro Villa left ing "with dispossessed peas­a stable mechanical ants and slum dwellers in engineering job in the United Colombia trying to improve the States to follow his heart. lives of their children," accord­
Dedicated to a life of non-vio­ing to a foundation informa­lence, Villa returned with his tional bulletin. new wife Caroline to his home­town of Medellin, Colombia, to Mrs. Villa had often worried battle the growing corruption that his work "could put him in and injustice there. 1\vo years danger from either the left or ago, Villa fell victim to the same the right (political factions in violence which he fought so Colombia). He himself had said hard to stop. several times, 'People must 
have the impression that we're 
A simple man. Villa had be­rich; one of these days we're come "a familiar figure in the ble, and we were sure he ground and there has been no getting resettled; one person areas where he worked, with 'We are trying to would only be held a few days." more communication. I've never even met who is giv­his overalls and sandals, tool Ten days later, she received a Apparently this is a tactic fre­ing her generous gift to her
encourage each
box in one hand and a camera letter in which, "we were quently used; it's hard to know slung over his shoulder to other to see what informed that we had to pay a what the reasons may be," she 'He saw clearly the record what one group of cam­ransom of one and a half said.
we can learn from 

connection between
pesinos (peasant countrymen) million dollars within 45 days, was doing in order to show this ghastly experi­or two million within 60," she On November 19, four and a this injustice and other groups," said Mrs. Villa. ence.' said. half months after the kidnap­

the growing
VIlla "loved to sing." and after The perception that the Villas ping, the Villas received a let­graduating with a mechanical going to get kidnapped.· A were rich was a mistaken one. ter from Alvaro. It closed with violence in engineering degree from the premonition, perhaps?" in a "Apparently some people have these words from Psalm 40: Colombia,'
University of Notre Dame in letter written by Mrs. Villa. the impression that we built "I have waited, waited for the 1953, he joined the Trapp On July 3, 1989, a group of the housing project and sold 60 Lord, 
parish and to a sister parish inFamily Singers and toured with armed men appeared at his houses, when what we did was and he stooped toward me El Salvador in Alvaro's memory; them for nearly two years. farm and said that "they be­exchange land for the houses and heard my cry. 
those of you have called or
Villa then moved to Colombia longed to a guerrilla organiza­for our children. Or the foun­He drew me out of the pit of 
written, those who haven't
and was employed by a local tion, that they had seen Alvaro dation could be thought to have destruction, known where to find me buttextile factory for nearly 15 on a TV program about our received a lot of funding from out of the mud of the swamp; have kept us in your thoughtsyears. He was then hired in foundation's demonstration international organizations, He set my foot upon a crag; and prayers.
1972 by the Fundacion farms, and that they needed when actually it operates on a he made firm my steps. 
"To all of you, many, manyEducadora (Education him to send a message to the small budget," Mrs. Villa said. And he put a new song into 
thanks, and please keep in
Foundation) as a coordinator government," according to Mrs. The Villas managed to gener­my mouth. a hymn to our God. 
touch. Our time of grieving isfor the Communidad por-los VIlla. ate five percent of the ransom 
not anywhere near over, and
'He was the first
Niftos (Community for the money with the help of gener­
we all continue to need your
Children). Initially, however, Mrs. Villa ous family and friends. "We person I've known encouragement and support,"This was a community self­was not "not terribly alarmed, will pay back the loans as soon who lived what he wrote Mrs. Villa in a letter.
help program dealing with local as this explanation was plausi-as we can sell something," Mrs. Villa wrote in a letter thanking believed.' Many others will miss Villa,everyone for the support. Many shall look on in awe especially the children with
"I have waited, waited 
The kidnappers rejected their 

and trust in the Lord." whom he worked. One young
offer, however, and replied with 

friend said, "He was the first
This was the last time the
"horrible notes" and said that if

for the Lord, 
Villas would ever hear from person I've known who lived 
they didn't receive the money, 
what he believed." 
Alvaro.
they'd kill him, according to 

Four months later, the Villas "He was keenly aware of our

and he stooped toward 
Mrs. Villa. 

received a letter confirming his responsibility to use natural re­
death from a guerilla group sources in such a way that we

me and heard my cry. 
"At this point the authorities 

which had offered to act as in­not destroy the possibility of 
became involved," but they 

termediaries in December. abundant life for future gener­
lacked the resources and expe­


He drew me out of the 
Evidently, this group was ac­ations. He respected the wis­
rience necessary to perform a 

tually involved in the kidnap­dom he found in many cam­
thorough criminal investiga­

ping, according to Mrs. Villa. pesinos in this regard and en­

pit of destruction, 
tion, she said. "There is also so 

"We now think that Alvaro couraged it to blossom.
much corruption that one feels 

was no longer alive by then. "He often referred to them as 
uneasy about trusting them,"

out of the mud of the 
We still have no idea of what the dispossessed, understand­
she added. 

actually happened, what the ing clearly the inherent 
For months the Villa family


swamp; 

circumstances of his captivity injustice in countries where 
waited in anxiety and fear. 

were, whether he was killed or land, money and power are 
"We were still as much in the 

died. The organization concentrated in the hands of a

He set my foot upon a 
dark as ever at five months. 

promised to try to recover the few while many go hungry. He 
Then on Monday we received 

body but so far has not done saw clearly the connection 
information, through a chain of 
so," said Mrs. Villa. between this injustice and the

crag; he made firm my 
contacts, that the group who is 

"So aside from the crushing growing violence in Colombia,"
holding him has been located. 

trauma of losing a wonderful Mrs. Villa said. 

steps. 
It seems there are one or more 

husband, father, brother, The Villa family is still 
ex-guerrilla members involved, 

grandfather, friend, all of us unaware of the location of
who have gone into business on


And he put a new song 
who loved Alvaro are finding it Villa's body, "but we know that 
their own. So now we have real 

hard not to agonize continually his body rests somewhere in the 
hope that it will be only a mat­

over what happened and why. beautiful mountains of the

into my mouth, a hymn 
ter of days till he is free. We 

We are trying to encourage country he loved so much; and 
will have to pay a considerable 

each other to see what we can that he rejoices forever with

to our God. 
ransom, only a matter of days 

learn from this ghastly experi­God, together with many other 
till he is free. We will have to

• 
ence," said Mrs. Villa. Latin American martyrs and 
pay a considerable ransom, but 

"One thing I personally have innocent victims of violence,"
Many shall look on In 
only a small fraction of the

-· 
been experiencing is tremen­said Mrs VIlla.
original demand," she wrote in 1 
dous gratitude toward the The family has relocated to i
awe and trust in the 
a letter. 

marvelous friends who have Canada and are "hoping to be
Things did not turn out quite 1 
supported us in so many ways: able to sell the tree farm, and 
as they'd hoped, however. 


Lord." 

those who gave the money to­some dear friends plan to buy
"Just when we thought things 

ward the ransom, those who the big old house. They will 
1
were about to work out,

-Last written words of Alvaro Villa (Psalm 40). 
later said we should keep it for take good care of it, and music 
Alvaro's captors went under-i
will be made there again." 


-----------~ -~­
The Observer 
Thursday, March 28, 1991 page 13 
Stanford defeats Tubbs­


Pirates in trouble with Bonilla 
BHADENTON, Fla. (AP)-In and would respond to the upped the ante. Earlier, he said less Sooners in NIT final 
the next few days, the Pittsburgh Pirates will face two of the most pressing financial questions in their history: 
-Can they afford to re-sign Bobby Bonilla? -Can they afford not to re­sign Bobby Bonilla? 
Bonilla rejected the Pirates' latest contract offer Tuesday, a four-year deal worth $16 mil­lion-plus. The proposal con­tained an unusual wrinkle ­nspndally for a team often ac­cusnd of being overly cautious fiscally -that essentially would allow Bonilla to become a free agent after each season. The Pirates would retain the right to match any offer. 
Not only would Bonilla make about $4 million a season, he could make even more if the marketplaee permitted it. Team president Carl Barger was so sure that the new twist would convince Bonilla to sign that he said. "For the life of me, I can't imagine him turning this down." 
lie did. 
Bonilla's agent, Dennis Gilbert, countered with a live­year contract worth about $20 million -a deal similar to Darryl Strawberry's $20.25 million contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Gilbert said the length of the contract, not the $4 million a year that both sides virtually have agreed to, is the biggnst holdup. 
Now the Pirates are wonder­ing if Gilbert is trying to hold them up. 
Barger said he would meet with general manager Larry Doughty and other club officials counterproposal Thursday, though he warned, "We're not going to drag this out." 
The Pirates' frustration is two-fold: 1) They think they've made a legitimate, fair-mar­ketplace offer to a player they consider the cornerstone of the team; and 2) They realize they must consider trading Bonilla if they can't re-sign him. 
"Bobby said, 'I'm going to make it difficult for them to make their decision whether to sign him, trade him or allow him to become a free agent," Gilbert said. 
Privately, some Pirates' offi­cials are wondering if Gilbert is serious about getting Bonilla signed, or if instead he is urging Bonilla to play out the season, become a free agent, and let the marketplace dictate his salary. 
If that's the case, Doughty questioned, can Bonilla -who could nearly double his current $2.3 million salary under a new contract -ever make up the nearly $2 million he'd lose this season by not signing? 
The Pirates have considered trade offers for Bonilla and re­portedly have talked to the Chicago Cubs about a deal in­volving first baseman Mark Grace and outfielder Jerome Walton, plus a Pirates' pitcher, probably Neal Heaton. If they don't sign Bonilla or don't trade him, the Pirates get only a draft pick if they lose him to free agency. 
The Pirates also are consider­ing what is worse: dealing Bonilla or dealing with Gilbert. 
Every time the Pirates have raised their offer, Gilbert has Bonilla would sign for $17.9 million plus a no-trade clause, then took that off the table when the Pirates took Bonilla to arbitration for the second straight year. 
Regardless, the Pirates con­sider re-signing Bonilla nearly as important from an off-the­field standpoint as they do for his on-field production. 
"We're going to keep working to get this done," Barger said. 
A product of the Pirates' farm system who was drafted away by the Chicago White Sox, then traded back to the Pirates in 1987 for pitcher Jose DeLeon, Bonilla symbolizes the resurgence of the Pirates from 102-game losers in 1985 to division champions in 1990. 
Not only have few players matched his offensive numbers -Bonilla has averaged .280, 27 homers and 102 RBis the last three seasons -he plays every day, and he plays to the fans. 
Losing Bonilla would be a damagihg public relations blow to a franchise that was literally rescued from the dead by a public-private consortium in 1985 and has thrived by devel­oping players such as Bonilla and Barry Bonds. 
If the Pirates lose their com­petitiveness by not re-signing such key players, the resultant attendance plunge -especially in light of the delicate financial condition of medium-market franchises -could prove catastrophic. 
"It's scary," Barger said. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Kenny Ammann scored 22 points, in­cluding five 3-pointers, as Stanford survived a 15-0 Oklahoma run following the ejection of Sooners coach Billy Tubbs to win its first National Invitation Tournament with a 78-72 victory Wednesday night. 
Oklahoma opened its biggest lead of the game. 46-37, early in the second half, but Stanford rallied with a 23-10 spree to move ahead 60-56. Deshon Wingate, held to one point in the first half, had 10 points and Ammann eight during the spurt, including two 3-pointers. 
The Sooners pulled to 70-67 on two free throws by Brent Price with 1:40 left, but Stanford clinched the victory by making eight of 12 free throws down the stretch. 
Andrew Vlahov scored 14 points, while Wingate and John Patrick each had 13 for Stanford (20-13). Price scored 26 points and Bryan Sallier 24 for Oklahoma (20-15). but their teammates combined for only 22. 
Adam Keefe, Stanford's lead­ing scorer with a 21.8 average, finished with 12 points but had only two in the final 29 min­utes. Keefe was named MVP of the tournament. 
The victory made Stanford the 13th school to win the NIT and the NCAA basketball championship. 
The first half was a wild affair that ended with Oklahoma leading 39-35 and Tubbs in the· locker room. 
He was ejected for arguing with the referees with 4:38 left in the half and the score tied at 
26. Tubbs was angry because he thought the referees failed to call a walking violation on Keefe before he· passed to Vlahov, who was then fouled while going for a layup. 
After referee Mickey Crowley gave Tubbs a technical, the coach continued to argue and was ejected by referee Pete Pavia. 
After Vlahov made his two free throws, Patrick sank all four free throws resulting from the two technical fouls on Tubbs. Stanford retained pos­session and Ammann quickly hit a 3-pointer, giving the Cardinal nine points in nine seconds and a 35-26 lead with 
4:27 remaining left in the half. 
But with assistant Mike Anderson running the team, Oklahoma struck back with a 13-0 run to close the half, with Price getting the last nine points on two baskets. a 3­pointer and a pair of free throws. The Sooners extended their run to 15-0 by scoring the first basket of the second half, then opened a 9-point lead be­fore Stanford rallied. 
Stanford started quickly, moving out to an 11-4 lead as Ammann and Vlahov each got two baskets. But Oklahoma came back to tie it at 26 behind the play of Sallier and Price, who each had 17 points in the half. Price scored only eight points and Sallier none in the Sooners' semifinal win over Colorado. 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day tram tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notr~ Dame offrce. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next·day classifieds Is 3p.m. All

Classifieds 
classrfreds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SEEKING SUMMER SCHOOL 
IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME I NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and Sean-
I NOTICES 
ARE YOU A BOOKWORM? 

STUDENT FOR BABYSITTING -15 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY trade, gold, silver, diamonds, It's 1 :00 PM ... do you know The Accent department of The HOURS PER WEEK-5 MIN. FROM OWNER. FIREPLACE, CiA, FMRM jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, where your matress Is? 
TYPING AVAILABLE Observer is looking tor an
N.D. 234-7407. 

W/BAR. MOVE·IN COND. 15 MIN camcorders, cameras, air
287·4082 undergraduate or graduate student 
WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY. 
conditioners, microwaves. tools, To a Panther... 
with strong writing skills to serve asHELP!i!NEED A ROOMATE FOR 234-8116. EVE. 

Nintendo's, computers. 
For I have sworn thee fair, 

Drssertations. Theses. Papers a regular literary critic. Call John 
CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL OZARK TRADING POST 
Professional Typrng and thought thee bright, O'Brien at 239-5303 tor more
DOUG X2051 sofa, iuv seat, carpet 1530 WESTERN AVE. 

Who art as black as hell, information277-7406 window seats (Fl. & Gr.) 287-7550 as dark as night.
Ride to/fro Columbus 4/5-4/7­X1583 
....ATTENTION SMC ..... -Shakespeare ARE YOU A MOVIE GOER? 
please help & call 4800 ADOPTION: Happily married loving 
If anyone would like to purchase a With love, The Accent department of The 
Bar, Five Stools, Misc. glasses. 
couple wish to adopt. We promise a

St. Mary's class ring, I transferred Yours to stalk Observer is looking for an avid
289-5345. 
fine education, financial security,

after purchasrng mrne and would movie goer with strong writing skills and the best of ail our hearts. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY

FOR RENT
like to sell ill lt"s like brand to serve as a regular movie critic. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. 

CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
Call John O'Brien at 239-5303 for new-and cheaper than the regular Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Call Tom and Debbie collect 212­more information.

seiling price! Give me a call, 1 GRAD. WEEKEND for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. 866-8315. 
!I! PROFESSORS ... Ill

graduate soon! Thanks! Julie BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Office near campus.273-9442 Blessing and honor, glory and 
219-291·7153. 
Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS? 

ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD power be unto Him, be unto Him. 
FREE TO GOOD HOME: Black and Too much stuff to bring home for the ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU$$$tor books 10·4:30 M·Sat.reg. 3 Bedroom House white classic tabby cat, 4 yrs old, summer? Help me fill my truck. 
GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU The men of Zahm ...
hours 10-5:30 everyday Close to Campus spayed, ail shots, currently flea-free. Contact Joe-X1433 JUST GOING AWAY THIS Pandora's Books 233-2342 $555 Month + Deposit Good conversationalist & plays a 
corner pf NO Ave. & Howard Ten Month Lease SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE On April 3, 1991 , the lacrosse team 
mean game of hat dog fetch. HOP HOP HOP HOUSE? 
will prove once and for ail that they 

232-3616 Comes with own USED scratching To the Bunny Shop Ramada inn of Elkhart. Award 
RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS indeed have the bigger, morepost, food, toys, litter. Guilt-ridden LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF powerful sticks ... the guys from Winning Hotel, has rooms for 
owner moves to NO PETS apt 4/27. We have Easter Baskets and Graduation weekend. Located at TIME IS RUNNING OUT ­
YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING 'Naugh just can't compete ...
Help us out, call Cassie @W:239· lotsa candy just tor you! 
ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE 
(Just ask any woman 9n campus!) SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED 
Toil Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles Call before the BEST houses are 5396/H:287-3758.
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 gone 233-9947. The Country Harvester TO WORRY THIS SUMMER I CALL PLEASE WELCOME THE 
nights with $11 0 deposit per room. 
LaFortune Lower Level 

ANYTIME...283-3470 ... PLEASE KOEHLERS TO SOUTH BEND: Send letter with deposit to 3011 Available. 2 Student Rental Homes M-F 12-5 SPRING OPEN HOUSE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE I 

TICKETS 
There's P.J. ("Date me and you getBelvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514. 

for 1991-1992 school year. Call CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" a case of Beer'), John (Sugarshock) 232·5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to HELP! Group of apathetic seniors 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND REFERENCES UPON REQUEST Justin (Don't Harpoon Me), and the 
5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). ••Airline licket-FOR SALE were too lazy to sign up tor 
father, BERT (NO I'M NOT HOMER ROUND TRIP 3/28-4/02 Bookstore but would like to play. I'll give you some punishment,
Last day for loans is Thurs. 
Apr. 411 (May '91 Grads not SIMPSON) KOEHLER Ill. Oh. and 
to Kansas City••• Sell us your team (price negotiable). tough guyyyll 
eligible) Mom (sorry, but I'm out of space ... ) 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. 
Face it, you'll probably lose in the 3-7 Bedroom. Furnished, $80.00 or Best Otter. Call 
first round anyway. 
SENIOR FORMAL 

Reasonable Rates. 271-5667-SOON Howl..mg -1
Call Scott@ X1650. 

Anyone interested~ in helping with Call at 232-1776. 
~FAYETTE SQUARE

I LOST/FOUND ' music for the mass at Senior ­Who is Joe Raven? 
TOWNHOMES

Formal, please contact Stacy at TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES 
271-1893. 
4 a s IEDROOirl UNrTS

HELP MEl LOst 10. Please call 

PERSONALS
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS 
AVALULI

3270 if you have found it. Ail of my IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER SUMMER? Jet there with Jo-Jo, 
Amlfll!ln lnc:l!.ae·

ID was in Blue NO plastic case. I'm 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE MODELS WANTED FOR AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the Only a day beforehand: 
-WASHER & DRYER

lost without it. Comalita M. Haysbert NORTH OF NO 2773097 ADVANCED HAIRCUTTING Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. Happy one-and-a-haiti 
-SECURITY SYSTEM

CLASS. CALL COSIMO"S 277-(As reported In NY limes and Let's Love always! 
LOST: a navy blue windbreaker. 
-DISHWASHER

1875. 
Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 with "'Mountainside Community Pool Apts. for rent-2 bedrm, kitchen, 

-CENTRAL AIR

HAPPY EASTER Staff" on it between LaFortune & dining, living. $380 includes utilities. 
-PATIOS Fisher on Mon 3/25. Be real cool Cai1219-232-5563. 
A HAPPY HOME FOR YOUR Spokane Crew-Pat Resumes .... Professional quality BABY. A Southern California 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS 

and return it to Jeff x1873. 
272-5667. (Tom Williams) teacher and film/businessman seek LILIANA VILLARREAL TURNS 
LEFTI 

Senior girls leaving May '91 -4 
to fulfill dreams through adoption. 20 TOMORROW, SO HERE ARE CALL FOR~ INFO NOW. Bedroom east side home near Notre 
We offer financial security, SOME QUOTES MADE BY THE 
232-8258

WANTED 
Dame for lease, ail appliances incl. IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE. 
education, opportunities, and ONE AND ONLY TO MAKE HER wahr/dryer, central air, finished 
Cash paid for ail makes of extended family. Please call collect BLUSH: 
Here's your chance to win

basement, frplc., super 4 to 5 
Computers and Software. Computer Maria and Peter (818) 893-2795. "MY HAR IS WETII" 
-
your very own Mac SEI Visit

SUMMER JOBS person student rental. Call 219· software for IBM and IBM "I CAN'T GET IT UP." 
the RILEY GROUP in

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 232-5563. 
compatible, Commodore or Apple, .....Ride Needed ........ 
'TM JUST NOT COORDINATED PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
Hayes-Healey LAB Mar

$2 each. 
I need to get to Michigan State for WITH BALLS!" 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 
26-27 and register to win

WESTERN ELECTRONICS Easter break, so if you're going HAPPY BIRTHDAY LILY-ANDLAKE PLACID. CALL ( FORSALE 1530 WESTERN AVE. there or anywhere nearby, please DON'T HATE US--WE ALL LOVE 
Mac SE to be raffled off in

1·800-343-8373. 
287-7550 give me a call SCOTT x4561 YOU IIIII 
Aoril. 




SCOREBOARD 
Thursday, February 28, 1991

p~ 14 
NBA STANDINGS 
NHL STANDINGS 
All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
w L T Pis GF GA y-Pittsburgh 41 32 5 87 335 295 x-NY Rangers 35 30 13 83 286 256 New Jersey 32 31 15 79 270 257 Washington 35 35 7 77 249 253 Philadelphia 33 36 9 75 248 260 NY Islanders 23 44 10 56 215 282 Adams Division y-Boston 43 23 12 98 289 256 x-Montreal 38 29 11 87 268 242 x-Buffalo 30 30 17 77 278 267 x-Harttord 31 37 10 72 230 264 Quebec 15 49 13 43 225 345 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division 
W L T Pis GF GA x-Chicago 4 7 22 8 102 273 205 x-St. Louis 44 22 11 99 300 247 x-Detroit 33 37 8 74 266 288 •-Minnesota 26 37 14 66 248 257 Toronto 23 44 11 57 236 308 Smythe Division x-Los Angeles 45 23 1 0 100 331 244 x-Gaigary 45 25 7 97 330 250 x-Edmonton 35 37 5 75 256 260 Vancouver 27 43 9 63 240 313 Winnipeg 26 41 11 63 255 279 
x-clinched playoff berth 
y-clinched division title Wednesday's Games 
Pittsburgh 7, Detroit 4 
New Jersey 4, Harttord 3, OT Thursday's Games Quebec at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Minnesota at Los Angeles,., 0:35p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
NHL LINESCORES 
Hartlord 0 3 0 Q-3 New Jersey 2 0 1 1-4 First Period-!, New Jersey, Muller 19 (Lemieux, Giger), 4:50. 2, New Jersey, D.Brown 13 (Fetisov), 
12:08. Penalties-Ladouceur, Har (roughing). 9:43; Weinrich, NJ (roughing), 9:43; Cullen, Har (elbowing), 10:06. 
Second Periodl-3, Harttord, Verbeek 42 (Cullen), 6:19. 4, Harttord, Zalapski 15 (Dineen, Hunter), 12:49 (pp). 5, Harttord, Verbeek 43 (Hunter, Cullen), 15:04. Penalties-A.Brown, Har, minor-major (roughing, fighting), 2:47; Weinrich. NJ, major (fighting), 2:47; New Jersey bench, served by Huscroft (too many men). 12:20. 
Third Periodl-6, New Jersey, Shanahan 28 (Driver, Maclean), 9:32 (pp). Penalties-Cullen, Har, double minor (roughing), 6:17; Verbeek, Har, double minor (roughing), 6:17; Daneyko, NJ, double minor (roughing), 6:17; Maley, NJ double minor (roughing), 6:17; Parker, Har (holding), 8:48; Dineen, Har, double minor (roughing), 12:31; Cyr, Har, double minor (roughing), 12:31; Stevens, Har (roughing), 12:31; Shanahan, NJ, double minor (roughing), 12:31; Albelin, NJ (roughing). 12:31; Sundstrom, NJ (interference), 12:31; A. Brown, Har (high-sticking), 16:22; Maley, NJ (high-sticking), 16:22; Hunter, Har (slashing), 16:57; Vertbeek. Har, misconduct-game misconduct, 16:57. 
Overtime-?, New Jersey, D. Brown 14, 2:47. Penalties-None. Shots on goai-Harttord 10-15-2-Q-27. New Jersey 6-7-9-3-25. 
Goalies-Harttord, Sidorkiewicz, 21-22-6 (25 shots-21 saves). New Jersey, Burke, 8-11-8 (27­24). 
A-14,873. 
Pittsburgh 3 1 3-7 Detroit 1 2 1-4 First Periodl-1, Detroit, Miller 20 (Burr, Racine), 
6:18. 2, Pittsburgh, Coffey 23 (Stevens, Recchi), 
7:03 (pp). 3, Pittsburgh, Jagr 25 (Roberts, Recchi), 
7:15. 4, Pittsburgh, Trottier 9 (Gilhen, Loney), 
19:12. Penalties-Samuelsson, Pit, minor-major (elbowing, fighting), 4:34; Federov, Det, major (fighting), 4:34; Probert, Del (interference), 5:26; Marsh, Del (high-sticdking), 9:56; Taglianetti, Pit (interference), 12:06. 
Second Period-S, Detroit, Crossman 8 (Federov, Fedyk), 1:52. 6, Detroit, Ysebeart 17 (Probert), 12:25 (pp). 7, Pittsburgh, Stevens 39 (Coffey, Recchi), 19:28 (pp). Penalties-Jennings, Pit (holding), 2:40; Probert, Det, double minor (cross-checking, roughing), 2:40; Jennings, Pit (high-sticking), 12:08; Roberts, Pit (holding), 13:57; Burr, Del (boarding), 18:36; Probert, Del (elbowing), 19:52. 
Third Period-jj, Pittsburgh, Francis 23 (Stevens, Samuelsson), 1:57. 9, Pittsburgh, Jagr 26 (Jennings, Loney), 2:31. 10, Pittsburgh, S.Young 17 (Jennings), 8:53. 11, Detroit, Burr 20 (Racine, Yzerman), 14:52 (pp). Penalties-Taglianetti, Pit (holding), 6:32; Probert, Det (roughing), 6:32; Coffey, Pit (high-sticking), 9:51; Gilhen, Pit, minor-major (high-sticking, fighting), 9:51; Potvin, Del, minor-major (roughing, fighting), 9:51; Errey, Pit (charging), 12:54; Primeau, Det (tripping), 15:46. 
Shots on goal--Pittsburgh 9-8-9--26. Detroit 12­11-9--32. 
Goalies-Pittsburgh, Pietrangelo, 10-10-1 (32 shots-28 saves). Detroit, Cheveldae, 29-26-5 (23­16), Hanlon (8:53 third. 3-3). 
A-19,760. 
Person 8-16 2-2 18, Thompson 2-3 0-0 4, Dreiling 1-3 0-0 2, Miller 6-10 2-2 16, Fleming 3-7 1-2 7, Schremp! 8-13 1-1 17, Smits 4-7 2-4 1 0, M.Williams 2-5 5-7 9, McCloud 1-6 2-2 4, Sanders 2-3 0-0 4, K.Williams 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 38-75 15-20 93. DETROIT (102) 
Rodman 8-12 3-419, Edwards 6-121-413, Laimbeer 4-8 2-2 10, Henderson 3-8 0-0 7, Dumars 10-19 3-3 23, Johnson 4-11 2-4 10, Salley 0-1 1-2 1, Aguirre 7-11 3-6 17, Bedford 0-1 0-0 0, Long 1-1 0-0 2.Totals 43-84 15-25 102. Indiana 28 26 15 24-93 Detroit 24 20 26 32-102 
3-Point goals-indiana 2-12 (Miller 2-6, Schrempf 0-1, McCloud 0-2, Person 0-3), Detroit 1-3 (Henderson 1-2, Aguirre 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Indiana 36 (Person 6), Detroit 57 (Rodman 19). Assists-Indiana 15 (Miller 5), Detroit 20 (Laimbeer, Dumars 6). Total fouls-indiana 25, Detroit 23. Technical-Indiana illegal defense. Flagrant foui-Aguirre. A-21.454. 
ORLANDO (97) 
Scott 2-10 2-6 6, Turner 4-9 2-410, Kite 3-71-4 7, Skiles 6-11 6-6 18, Anderson 7-13 0-0 14, Acres 2-3 0-0 4, Reynolds 4-7 12-16 20, Smith 5-10 3-5 13, Wiley 2-2 1-2 5, Ansley 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 35-74 27-43 97. DALLAS (85) 
McCray 2-6 3-4 7, Williams 9-13 0-2 18, Donaldson 2-6 2-2 6, Harper 6-16 0-2 12, Blackman 7-18 5-7 20, White 2-8 1-1 5, Shasky 0­1 0-0 0, English 1-2 1-2 3, Upshaw 2-4 0-0 4, Davis 5-8 0-0 tO. Totals 36-82 12-20 85. Orlando 22 22 27 26--97 Dallas 31 20 14 20-85 
3-Point goals-Orlando 0-4 (Skiles 0-1, Scott 0­3), Dallas 1-8 (Blackman 1-2, White 0-1, Harpar 0­5). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Orlando 60 (Kite 16), Dallas 49 (Donaldson 10). Assists-Orlando 17 (Skiles 8), Dallas 20 (Blackman 6). Total fouls-Orlando 23, Dallas 30. Technicals-Orlando coach Guokas, White, Upshaw. A-16,473. 
Volunteer. 
ftAmerican Heart"V'"Association 
GUITARS-AMPS 
CRATE -ALVAREZ-YAMAHA WESTONE-TAYLOR 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 1991 
1st Round: Reglonals Thurs.-Fri. March 14-15 

Indianapolis Saturday March 30  Monday, Apri/1  lndlallllpolls Saturday March 30  Rogloll!ll•  2nd Round: Sat-sun. March 16-17  111 Aound; Tht.n...fn. March14-15  
EAST  
f~··H·r:~;~  

~~~oolonaN~9 'v=:~:::Sl
c.-.1 

""""''5-"1 
lt2)Eastem_an_
E Mich 71 68 "I UCLA 
overtime PeM St 74-69 
I 

EastRuth«ford,N.J. I~)-~S~---Fn ·Sun 6) N C Stall March 22 & 24 N C St 114-85 111) Southem Miss 
Olda[c:.:... IOkla St 67.. 3)0klahomaSl 

Temple 72·63 overtime 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL National League 
ATLANTA BRAVES---Optioned Kelly Mann and Jim Kremers, catchers, to Richmond of the International League. Sent Randy Kramer, pitcher, to their minor league camp for reassignment. 
HOUSTON ASTROS---Optioned Randy Hennis, pitcher, toTucson. Sent Kevin Coffman, Terry Clark and Dan Murphy, pitchers, to their minor league camp for reassignment. Sent Bert Hunter, outfielder, outright to Tucson. Released Darnell Coles, outfielder, from his non-roster invitation. 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALs--Announced the resignation of Mark Sauer, executive vice president and chief operating officer. Named Stuart Meyer executive vice president and chief operating officer. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPER&-Piaced Ken Bannister, center, on the injured list. Activated Mike Smrek, center. FOOTBALL National Football League 
LOS ANGELES RAM&-Signed Benjamin Thomas, Jr., defensive tackle; Michael Lindsey, linebacker; and Darren Grudt, offensive guard. 
NEW YORK JET&-Signed Bobby Houston, linebacker. SOCCER United States Soccer Federatiion 
U.S. NATIONAL TEAM-Named Bora Milutinovic coach and agreed to terms on a contract through December 1994. Named John Kowalski, interim coach, interim assistant coach. COLLEGE 
NCAA-Banned the University of Minnesota football team from postseason play next season. and stripped the men's basketball squad of one scholarship next year for rules infractions. 
PAST NIT CHAMPIONS 
1991-Stanford 
199Q-Vanderbilt 
1989--St. John's 
1986--Connecticut 
1987-8outhern Mississippi 
1986--0hio State 
1985-UCLA 
1984-Michigan 
1983-Fresno St. 
1982-Bradley 
1981-Tulsa 
198Q-Virginia 
1979--indiana 
1978-Texas 
1977-81. Bonaventure 
1976--Kentucky 
1975-Princeton 
1974-Purdue 
1973-Virginia Tech 
1972-Maryland 
1971---North Carolina 
197Q-Marquette 
1969--Temple 
1968-Dayton 
1967-8outhern Illinois 
1966---jjrigham Young 
1965-St. John's 
1964-Bradley 
1963-Providence 
1962-Dayton 
I'") New Mea:o
Park, Md 
Thurs ·Sat 1 mple 80-S3 7) Purdue March 14-16 e 
I 
ample n 1 tO) Tom"" ........
64 
Rlchmood 73·69 121 Syracuse 
15) Richmond 
NIT RESULTS 
At Madison Square Garden New York Wednesday, March 27 Championship 
Stanford 78, Oklahoma 72 Third Place Colorado 98, Massachusetts 91 
STANFORD (78) 
Vlahov 3-9, 8-12 14, Wingate 4-9 5-8 13, Keele 5-10 2-2 12, Ammann 8-17 1-2 22, Patrick 2-5 7-8 13, Lallie 1-4 2-2 4, Garrett 0-0 0-0 0, Williams 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23-54 25-34 78. OKLAHOMA (72) 
Holmes 1-1 0 1-2 3, Webster 1-9 2-2 4, Sallier 10­17 4-6 24, Harris 3-5 0-0 8, Price 8-12 6-6 26, Evans 1-11 1-3 3, Ware 1-3 2-2 4. Totals 25-67 15­18 72. 
Halftime-Oklahoma 39, Stanford 35. 3-point goals-Stanford 7-17 (Ammann 5-10, Patrick 2-5, Vlahov 0-1, Lallie 0-1). Oklahoma 7-21 (Price 4-7. Harris 2-3, Evans 1-9, Holmes 0-1, Sallier 0-1). Fouled out-Lollie, Price. Rebounds-Stanford 42 (Wingate 13), Oklahoma 36 (Sallier 10). Assists-Stanford 14 (Patrick 4), Oklahoma 17 (Price 5). Total fouls-Stanford 21, Oklahoma 22. Technicals-Oklahoma coach Tubbs 2 (ejected). A-jj,951 
MASSACHUSETTS (91) 
Barbee 3-12 1-2 7, Herndon 1-5 1-2 3, Williams 9-11 2-2 20, Brown 6-8 0-0 13, McCoy 8-18 11-12 27, Giles 7-14 0-018. Tate 1-1 1-2 3, Pace 0-0 0-0 0, Anderson 0-1 0-0 0, J.Robinson 0-1 0-0 0, Grodski 0-0 0-0 0, C. Robinson 0-0 0-0 0, Meyer 0­0 0-0 0, Firmin 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 35-72 16-20 91. COLORADO (98) 
Guest 4-7 5-8 13, Hunter 3-6 3-6 11, Vandiver 12-18 10·12 34, Wise 5-8 3-515, Law 2-312-14 17, A. Robinson 1-1 0-0 2, Walters 2-4 0-0 4, Terrell 0-0 0-0 0, Markham 1-1 0-0 2, Mann 0-0 0-0 0, Elinburg 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 30-53 33-45 98. 
Halftime-Colorado 38, Massachusetts 38. 3­point goals-Massachusetts 5-15 (Giles 4-11, Brown 1-1, Fermin 0-1, Bartbee 0-2), Colorado 5-9 (Wise 2-3, Hunter 2-4, Law 1-1, Walters 0-1). Fouled out-Herndon, Brown. Rebounds­Massachusetts 32 (McCoy. Tate 6), Colorado 34 (Guest 9). Assists-Massachusetts 29 (Brown 7), Colorado 18 (Hunter 5). Total fouls-Massa­chusetts 28, Colorado 18. 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Thursday March 28 Women's tennis v. Michigan State, 4 p.m. 
Friday March 29 Men's tennis v. Minnesota, 1 p.m. Baseball @ Oscar Meyer Classic (Minneapolis, 
Minnesota) v. Stanford, 2 p.m. Men's and women's track @ Rice Invitational (Houston, Texas). Men's golf @ Johnny Owens/Kentucky Invitational (Lexington, Kentucky), Kearney Hills GC. 
Saturday March 30 Lacrosse v. Villanova. 2 p.m. Softball@ Evansville (DH), 3 p.m. Baseball @ Oscar Meyer Classic v. Minnesota, 
11 a.m. Men's and women's track @ Rice Invitational. Men's golf @ Johnny Owens/Kentucky lnvitatiqnal. 
sunday March 31 Baseball @ Oscar Meyer Classic v. UCLA. Men's golf @ Johnny OwensiKentucky Invitational. 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editor 
For more information con tact 
239-7471 or 283-4624
Dannika 

All Times EST EASTERN CONfERENCE Atlantic Division 
W L Pet GB 

x-Boston 50 19 .725­Philadelphia 38 31 .551 12 New York 34 36 .486 16 112 Washington 26 42 .382 23 112 New Jersey 23 47 .329 27 112 Miami 21 49 .300 29 112 Central Division x-Ghicago 51 17 .750­x-Detro~ 44 27 .620 8 1/2 x-Milwaukee 42 28 .600 10 Atlanta 38 32 .543 14 Indiana 35 36 .493 17 1/2 Cleveland 24 44 .353 27 Charlotte 20 49 .290 31 1/2 WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Midwest Division 
W L x-Utah 46 23 x-San Antonio 45 23 x-Houston 44 24 Dallas 25 43 Orlando 25 43 Minnesota 22 46 Denver 18 51 Pacific Division x-Portland 51 18 x-LA Lakers 50 20 x-Phoenix 48 22 
.. Golden State 36 33
-
Seattle 32 37 
LACiippars 27 44 
Sacramento 18 49 
x-ciinched playoff berth 
Wednesday's Games Detro~ 102, Indiana 93 Orlando 97. Dallas 85 LA Clippars 95, Utah 89 Portland 112, Seattle 107 
Thursday's Games 
Philadelphia at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Washington at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Boston at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Houston at Atlanta, 8 p.m. Golden State at New York, 8:30p.m. Orlando at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Utah at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
NBA BOXES 
INDIANA (93) Pet GB .667­.662 1/2 .647 11/2 .368 20 112 .388 20 1/2 .324 23 112 .261 28 
.739­.714 11/2 .686 3 112 .522 15 .464 19 .380 25 .269 32 
L10 Streak 
7-3  Lost 1  
5-5  Lost 2  
6-4  Lost 3  
4-6  Won3  
4-6  Won 1  
2-8  Won I  
8-2  Lost 1  
6-4  Won2  
6-4  Lost 1  
4-6  Lost 1  
6-4  Lost 1  
3-7  Lost 1  
3-7  Won I  

L10 Streak 6-4 Lost 1 6-4 Won3 10-0 Won 12 
3-7 6-4 3-7 2-8 
6-4 8-2 7-3 5-5 2-8 7-3 2-8 Lost2 Won4 Lost 2 Lost? 
Won4 Won2 Won I Lost 3 Lost3 Won4 Lost 5 

UTAH (89) 
K.Malone 16-24 9-10 41, Bailey 6-15 4-516, Eaton 2-31-1 5, Stockton 7-17 3-4 17, J.Malone 2­8 0-0 4, Griffith 1-5 0-0 3, Rudd 0-1 0-0 0, T.Brown 0-1 3-4 3, M.Brown 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 34-75 20-24 89. LA CLIPPERS (95) 
Manning 4-8 2-3 10, Smith 10-15 2-3 22, Polynice 3-7 5-s_11, Harpar 12-21 3-4 29, Garland 7-121-215, Garrick 1-2 0-2 2, Norman 2-8 0-0 4, Martin 1-2 0-0 2.Totals 40-75 13-22 95. Utah 24 22 22 21-jj9 LA Clippers 32 19 21 23-95 
3-Point goals-Utah 1-10 (Griffith 1-4, K.Malone 0-1, Stockton 0-5), Los Angeles 2-5 (Harpar 2-5). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Utah 47 (K.Malone 9), Los Angeles 42 (Smith, Polynice 7). Assists-Utah 21 (Stockton 1 0), Los Angeles 26 (Garland 9). Total fouls-Utah 19, Los Angeles 20. Technicai-K.Malone. Flagrant foui-M.Brown. A-13,324. 
PORTLAND (112) 
-
Kersey 8-19 8-1 0 24, Williams 3-5 2-4 8, Duckworth 6-12 6-6 18, Drexler 7-15 12-14 26, Porter 5-13 11-11 23, Robinson 0-4 4-6 4, Ainge 4­9 0-0 9, Davis 0-1 0-0 0, Coopar 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 33-80 43-51 112. SEATTLE (107) Johnson 7-19 2-2 16, Kemp 3-12 4-4 10, Benjamin 4-10 7-8 15, Payton 5-11 2-4 12, Threatt 6-11 0-0 12, McKey 2-4 4-5 8, Pierce 9-23 6-7 24, McMillan 1-5 0-0 2, Cage 3-5 2-4 8, Barros 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 40-100 27-34 107. Portland 25 17 34 36--112 Seattle 27 34 23 23-107 3-Point goals-Portland 3-9 (Porter 2-5. Ainge 1­
2. Drexler 0-2), Seattle 0-4 (Johnson 0-1, Kemp 0­1, McKey 0-1, Pierce 0-1 ). Fouled out-Kemp, McMillan. Rebounds-Portland 60 (Kersey 11 ), 
Seattle 62 (Kemp 10). Assists-Portland 17 (Porter 7), Seattle 15 (Payton 6). Total fouls-Portland 24,
-
Seattle 34. Technicals-Portland illegal defense, Drexler. A-18.167. 
EXHIBITION STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
W L Pet. New York 16 6 .727 Minnesota 15 6 .714 Boston 15 7 .682 Cleveland 1 0 7 .588 Seattle 10 7 .588 Baltimore 10 1 0 .500 California 9 9 .500 Chicago tO 11 .476 Kansas City 8 1 0 .444 Texas 8 12 .400 Toronto 7 13 .350 Detroit 7 14 .333 Oakland 6 12 .333 Milwaukee 6 15 .286 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
W L Pet. St. Louis 12 6 .667 Houston 11 6 .647 New York 13 8 .619 Pittsburgh 11 7 .611 San Diego t 0 7 .588 Chicago t 2 9 .571 Atlanta 10 8 .556 San Francisco 10 8 .556 Cincinnati 7 13 .350 Philadelphia 6 12 .333 Montreal 6 13 .316 Los Angeles 7 16 .304 
NOTE: Split-squad games count in standings, ties do not Wednesday's Games 
Minnesota 1 0, Philadelphia 4 
Houston 2, St. Louis 1 
Atlanta 2, New York Yankees 0 
Boston 9, Cincinnati 4 
Toronto 8, Detroit 7, 13 innings 
Baltimore 17, Los Angeles 9 
Cleveland 5, Seattle 4 
Milwaukee 1, Oakland 0, 6 innings, rain 
San Francisco vs. San Diego, ccd., rain 
Chicago Cubs 5, California 3 
New York Mats 6, Montreal 1 
Pittsburgh 10, Texas 4 

EXHIBITION LINESCORES 
At Fort Myers, Fla. Philadelphia 003 010 ooo-4 10 3 Minnesota 11 0 023 30x-1 0 12 1 
DeJesus, Sharts (6), Akerfelds (7) and Lake; Erickson, Casian (6), Drummond (9) and Harper, Webster (7). W-Casian, 1-0. L-Sharts, 0-1. HAs-Minnesota, Mack (2). Davis 2 (5). 
At Kissimee, Fla. St. Louis 000 001 OOQ-1 6 Houston 000 1 00 001-2 8 
Deleon, Hill (6) and Gedman; Harnisch, Jones (6), Schilling (9) and Biggio. W-Schilling, 2-0. L-Hill, 1-2. 
At West Palm Beach, Fla. 

New York (A) ooo ooo ooo-o 2 o 
Atlanta 000 000 20x-2 6 
Sanderson, Guetterman (6). Monteleone (8) and Leyritz; Leibrandt, Sisk (7), Mercker (9) and Olson. W-Sisk, 2-1. L-Guetterman, 1-1. Sv-Mercker (1). 
At Lakeland, Fla. Toronto 231 000 100 000 1-jj 12 0 Detroit 200 021 020 000 Q-7 11 4 
Wells, Fraser (6), A. leiter (8), McDonald (10), Acker (12) and Borders; Aldred, Meacham (2), Gakeler (6), Gleaton (9), Vesling (10) and Baxter, Salas (7). W-Acker, 1-1. L-Vesling, 0-1. HAs-Toronto, Ducey (3). Detroit, Tettleton (3). 
At Tucson, Ariz. Seattle 004 000 000-4 1o 2 Cleveland 000 1 02 002-5 6 2 
Bankhead, Harris (6), Schooler (8), Comstock (9) and Bradley, Sinatra (8); Otto, Blair (5), Orosco-t7), D.Jones (9) and Alomar, Skinner (6). W-D.Jones, 1-0. L-Comstock, 0-1. 
-LESSONS 
241 DIXIE WAY N-US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( 
St. Mary's Coll&ge Roseland 


MON-FA1.1200NOON-6pmCALLforSAT.hours 

272·7510 
DICK WISNER -OWNER 

.. 
Thursday, March 28, 1991 The Observer page 15 
"Through the statements re­leased today, we believe the




Holtz Can Runnin' Rebels be beaten? 
NCAA has affirmed what we 
continued from page 20 
ence, Holtz was even further, if not idly, clear. 
"The LeRoy Gardner accusa­tion was dismissed completely, as I had said all along that it should be," read Holtz. "There was absolutely no justification for it. I believe the timing of the accusation indicates it was a self-serving action." 
Holtz was also critical of former Irish assistant coach l'nte Cordelli, who now coaches at Kent Statn University. 
"Pete Cordelli had seven dif­ferent stories on seven different oc:casions," said Holtz. "I! is story changed the same month that I nam1~d Jim Strong the of­fensive coordinator. It went from he didn't see any money to he did see it to he saw $200. Was he lying? That is some­thing that I cannot pass judge­nwnt on." 
Dick Rosenthal, University of Notre Dame athletic director, issued a statement in support of his vindicated coach. 
"All of us at the University continue to have great faith in Lou I Iohz, his integrity and in the manner in which he has conducted the football program at Notre Dame ... It's appropriate that the Committee has rec­ommended no further actions of any kind relative to these matters, in light of the infor­mation provided by Lou and others through the course of the inquiry. 
have stipulated all along-that these situations involved no willfull [sic], deliberate or in­tentional violations of rules on the part of Lou Holtz ... The Uni­versity has fully supported him at every turn and we're pleased that he can now focus full at­tention on his primary task." 
In the end, Holtz revealed his formula for surviving three years of life under a high-pow­ered, sometimes dirty, media microscope. 
"I don't feel vindicated, be­cause I did make two errors of judgement. But I do feel that after 25 years [as a coach] I like myself and am comfortable with myself. Despite all these difficult things, if you are com­fortable with yourself and have been honest, it'll usually work itself out," said Holtz. 
The end of the three-year ordeal also provided Holtz with a chance to say his piece. 
"Despite the millions of words that have been written and said about the allegations directed at me while at Minnesota," commented Holtz, "it comes down to this-! gave an individual approximately $25 to reimburse him for a wallet that was stolen while he was our guest, and I helped a former student-athlete gain an oppor­tunity to graduate by paying for a correspondence course. In both cases, I felt it was the hu­mane thing to do." 
"If there are no more ques­tions, this matter is closed." 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The three coaches trying to unseat undefeated UNLV from the throne of college basketball agree it isn't an impossible task. 
"They've certainly proven they're outstanding defensively, offensively and on the back­boards," North Carolina's Dean Smith said during Wednesday's teleconference with the Final Four coaches. "I do think there's a great deal of pressure on them because everyone is saying they should win. That's a dangerous situation." 
The Tar Heels (29-5) meet Kansas (26-7) in Saturday's first semifinal, with Duke (30-7) going against the Runnin' Rebels (24-0) in the second game at the Hoosier Dome. 
The Rebels trounced Duke 103-73 in last year's title game. 
"Duke has had some time to prepare, and after having lost by a great margin last year they certainly have a great psy-,. chological advantage, although Vegas is probably going to have to play a little less than their best if anyone is to beat them," Smith added. 
Kansas coach Roy Williams, no stranger to Duke as a former player at archrival North Carolina and a 1a-year­assistant to Smith, agreed with his former mentor. 
"I do think they're outstand­ing," Williams said of UNLV, seeking to be the first NCAA champion to repeat since UCLA in 1973. "Duke, the team 
they're getting ready to play is 
not exactly chopped liver. 
They're a pretty good basket­
ball team.... Knowing some of 
their kids and their staff, I think 
they'll be highly motivated. 
"They don't feel good about 
what happened last year, so 
that will still be on their mind," 
Williams said. "Everybody ex­
pects Vegas to just walk out 
there and the game is going to 
be over with, but I don't think 
those Duke kids are going to 
look at it like that. It will have 
to be a night where they don't 
shoot as well from the outside 
and your guards are going to 
have to be able to withstand the 
pressure." 

''I'm not sure how you beat -Vegas," said Duke coach Mike 
Krzyzewski. "You have to come 
up with a fairly simple game 
plan and give your kids an op­
portunity to be positive." 
Coach Jerry Tarkanian's 
Rebels, which had to get a re­
prieve from NCAA sanctions to 
be able to defend its title, arrive 
with a school-record 45-game 
winning streak. 
Tarkanian comes to the Final 
Four for the third time since 
1987 with a veteran squad that 
includes four returning starters 
who have each scored more 
than 1,200 career points. 
"Four of my starters started 
three years ago when we went 
to the final eight. This is a vet­
eran team. There's no question 
that's a positive," said 
Tarkanian. "There's so much pressure, as the year progresses the pressure seems to mount. I think there's mental fatigue, more than physical fatigue. It was really good to get away from basketball for two days.... By Saturday we'll be ready to play." 
Meanwhile, Krzyzewski has been watching tapes. 
"The more tape you watch, the more you get scared of them," he said. "We understand who UNLV is ... but it's a matter of beating them." 
The numbers explain the problem of facing UNLV. The Rebels have beaten opponents by an average of 27.6 points per game, have led at halftime in all but one game this s~ason and have trailed their opponents for only 54 minutes, 33 seconds of 1,360 minutes played. Their biggest deficit all season was 10 points, 16-6, to Fresno State in the title game of the Big West Conference tournament, and the Rebels went on to win that game by 24 points. 
"We have a real good basket­ball team but we're certainly not unbeatable," Tarkanian said. "So much of our game is based on our playing with a real high intensity. We can have some nights when we're not shooting the ball well and get some guards who can handle our defensive pressure. We try to stress that to our kids all year long." 

Take an active role in the events of our class. 
pplications are now available for positions 
n Junior Class government: 
orm representative St. Hedwig's Commissioner ff·Campus representatrive Service Commissioner 
oreign Studies Liaison Fund-raising Commissioner 
ocial Commissioner Publicity Commissioner 
iturgical Commissioner 
ick-up applications/information at 213 LaFortune Applications due: Friday, April 5th 
f you have any questions, please feel free to cal ave X1962 Andrea X1323 om X4797 Jennie X2798 
Dennis Conner arrives for warm-up while the Soviet Union decides not to show 
SAN DIEGO (AP) ~ Dennis Conner's sloop arrived for the first International America's Cup Class World Championships at about the same time that the Soviet Union pulled out of next month's competition. 
Team Dennis Conner's boat, the first American-made America's Cup Class sloop, ar­rived Tuesday after an eight­day, 3,000-mile truck ride from Bristol, R.I. 
The dark blue hull, which Conner will sail in the IACC Worlds, will be christened on April 7. 
Meanwhile, the Red Star Syndicate announced that its 75-foot, aluminum-hulled boat will not race in the world championships May 4-11 in the Pacific Ocean off San Diego. 
The Soviets decided that their crew won't have sufficient time to train between the vessel's mid-April arrival and the start 

RESERVATION CALL NOW I 683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX ~ 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

• 
GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY Master Mini Warehouses 



Tapestries of Our Lives 
"Every person's life is a work of art. A tapestry woven through the years..." 
Performed by Sr. Kathleen L. Harkins, O.P. Dominican Preacher and Performer 
April 2, 1991 8:00pm Washington Hall 

Admission is Free 
IHE 

ISponsored by Year of Women 




~~MEN)
and Gender Sbldies 
of the Pre-Worlds Regatta on May 1. Red Star had scheduled its boat to arrive here by April 4, but late modifications set that schedule back by at least two weeks. 
Though only boats con­structed of carbon-fiber com­posites may compete, the Soviets had asked permission to sail their aluminum yacht but not have its finishes count. 
The Red Star boat will con­duct sailing tests and crew training while the Worlds are under way, and the Soviets will monitor the championships while completing specifications for their carbon-fiber entry. 
The loss of the unofficial Soviet entry drops the Worlds fleet to eight, although both Spain and Sweden continue to negotiate with New Zealand for the use of the two extra Kiwi hulls. 

Do it out of respect for the dead. And the living. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM. 


American Heart ft Association ~ 
This space provided as a public service. 
r page 16 
Wanted: one qb to follow in feet of former Canes 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­The job has its drawbacks -no paycheck, lots of stress and work on weekends. 
But it also has a history of turning young men into mil­lionaires. 
And that's one reason Gino Torretta and Bryan Fortay are eager to become the starting quarterback at the University of Miami. 
With the graduation of Craig Erickson, one of the most prominent positions in college football is vacant again. "They're even now," coach Dennis Erickson said. "It's go­ing to be very competitive this spring. The bottom line is who moves the team." 
In the past decade, Miami has produced four starting NFL quarterbacks, and Craig Erickson could become the fifth. But for the first time since Bernie Kosar beat out Vinny Testaverde in 1983, the heir is not apparent. 
Torretta, a fourth-year junior from Pinhole, Calif., has the edge in experience. When Craig Erickson was hurt in 1989, Torretta compiled a 3-1 record as a starter. He threw for a school record 468 yards in a victory over San Jose State and threw four interceptions in a loss at Florida State. 
Fortay, a third-year sopho­more from East Brunswick, N.J., threw 15 passes as a mop­up man in 1989 and was red­shirted last year. A highly sought recruit, he threatened to transfer a year ago because he felt he deserved more practice time. 
Fortay says he hasn't thought about how he would react to losing the battle for No. 1. Torretta says the same. Both will get plenty of chances this spring to show what they can do. 
"Gino's advantage is he has played, so he has a little more experience than Bryan," coach Erickson said. "Gino's arm is a 
little stronger, and Bryan has a 
little more mobility. 
"I don't know right now that there's a great deal of differ­ence." 
Several other positions are also unsettled. Twelve starters, including All-Americans Russell Maryland and Maurice Crum on defense, have departed from a team that went 10-2 last sea­son and finished third in the nation. 
Offensive line, tight end and defensive tackle are particular concerns, Erickson said. But it is the quarterback duel that has the attention of Hurricanes fans. 
"Everybody will have an opinion on who the quarter­back should be," the coach said. 
Torretta describes himself as a dropback passer who likes to crack jokes in the huddle. He said the job is his to lose. 
"Experience is very key, espe­cially at a position like quar­terback," he said. "I've been in big games on national TV" 
Fortay fancies himself as a Roger Staubach-type scrambler and has a businesslike manner -he plans to go to law school. He said the job is his to win. 
"I think I have just as good a shot as Gino does," Fortay said. 
"There are a million guys out there that can throw a football. But a quarterback here has to have something special. One of us has to find it." 
The Observer 

Can Walton match up with Alcindor in Unbeatens Only? 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Who was the better college cen­ter: Lew Alcindor or Bill Walton? 
That will be determined, at least for one game, when the two giants of college basketball, both of whom starred for UCLA only a few years apart, meet in the championship game of the Unbeatens Only computer tournament. 
Alcindor scored 49 points, grabbed 13 rebounds and blocked nine shots, leading the 1967 UCLA team to a 93-81 victory over the 1991 UNLV Runnin' Rebels, who are trying to become the first undefeated team since Indiana in 1976 to win the NCAA title game, in a semifinal game Wednesday. 
In the other semifinal, Walton had 30 points, 14 rebounds and eight blocks as his 1973 UCLA team edged his 1972 UCLA team 88-86. 
The championship game will be played Thursday. 
In opening-round games, UNLV scored a 78-70 victory over Indiana; Alcindor collected 33 points as the 1967 UCLA team defeated the 1957 North Carolina squad 82-66; Walton's 1972 UCLA team beat Bill Russell's 1956 San Francisco team 71-63, and Walton's 1973 UCLA team downed the 1964 UCLA team 80-73. 
The games were produced for The Associated Press by Lance Haffner Computer Games as part of a tournament matching unbeaten UNLV against the seven teams that have won the NCAA championship with per­fect records. The games are played without either a shot clock or 3-point field goals. 
UNLV, led by All-American Larry Johnson, gave UCLA a strong run for the first 30 min­utes before wilting under Alcindor's awesome scoring, rebounding and shot-blocking pressure. 
Although Alcindor outshone Johnson in the first half, scor­ing 27 points on 10 of 13 field goal shooting and grabbing six rebounds, the Runnin' Rebels' forward had 19 points, hitting 9 of 11 field goals. 
UNLV led at halftime 54-52. 
Both teams were brilliant from the field in the opening half. UNLV was 22 of 34 for .647 percent, and UCLA hit 20 of 36 for .556. 
The game remained close un­til midway in the second half. Then, a three-point play by Alcindor put UCLA ahead 75-72 with 9:48 remaining, and the Bruins increased their margin the rest of the way. 
Lucius Allen finished with 16 points and Lynn Shackelford 12 for the Bruins. Johnson led UNLV with 34 points and 10 rebounds, and Anderson Hunt scored 13. 
In the other semifinal, while the final margin was only two points and the game was close most of the way, the 197 3 UCLA team trailed only once -40-38 -when Walton completed a three-point play with 2:25 remaining in the first half. 
Otherwise, the '73 team started quickly, taking a 4-0 lead at 1:19 on two field goals by Walton and widened its ad­vantage to 23-16 at 9:20 on a basket by Larry Hollyfield. At halftime, the score was 44-44, with Walton scoring 23 points on 10 of 13 field goal shooting for the '73 team and 16 points for the '72 squad. 
In the second half, two free throws by Larry Farmer gave the '73 team a 56-50 lead at 
5:1 7, and a field goal by Walton with 6:42 remaining increased the advantage to 75-66, the largest lead of the game. 
The '72 team got as close as three points, at 87-84, with 14 seconds left on a basket by Hollyfield. Then, Keith Wilkes made one of two free throws for the '73 team with six seconds to play, before Wilkes closed out the scoring for the '72 squad with a field goal at the buzzer. 
Wilkes finished with 18 points for the '73 team, while Farmer had 13 and Hollyfield 12. Walton led the '72 team with 20 points and was followed by Wilkes with 18, Farmer with 14 and Swen Nater with 10. 

Thursday, March 28, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS 

TRANSITION FROM BACKPACK TO BRIEFCASE 
Sponsored by the Senior Class and the University Counseling Center 
Tuesday April 2, 1991 7 ·8:30p.m. LaFortune/Notre Dame Room 
INSURANCE 
Mr. Lloyd will address John Lloyd, '58 what you should knowSpeaker 1 : Lloyd Insurance Agency about renter's, auto, life, and health insurance. 

PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF TRANSITION 
Speaker 2: Rita Donley, Ph.D. Dr. Donley will address Psychologist 
the emotional and social University Counseling 
issues of transition, i.e., Center 
psychological aspects of adjustment to new settings, experiences. 

BEING A NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Mr. Lennon will address 

Speaker 3: Chuck Lennon, '62 the topic of getting 
Executive Director involved in the Alumni 
Alumni Association Association. 
NOW LEASING: 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE AMENITIES INCLUDED: 
-WASHER AND DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 



CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 
The Observer 
Thursday, March 28, 1991 page 17 
m 
New 
York 
City 
Housing available May 19-Auguat 10 For more information and an application, call toll free 
l-800-282-4NYU Ext. 840 
New York Univenity is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. 

Women open first track season ever in Classic 
By BECKY WOOD region including second ranknd Sports Writer T1-1xas, Drake, Harvard, Houston and Hice. 
The Notre Dame women's "Believe me it'll be a real track team travels to Houston, challenge for them, considering Texas this weekend for compe­it's their first year as a varsity tition in the Bayou Classic. sport." Irish coach Joe Piane 
The Irish debut as pioneers in said. Notre Dame track. 1991 marks the inaugural year that the A thin roster of eleven looks University has offered women's to make their mark in the dis­track as a varsity sport. The tance, sprint and field events. Bayou Classic hosts tough Piane anticipates the 4 x 100 competitors from the Southwest meter relay to make finals. 
Saint Mary's Belles tennis ups record to 2-0 in match 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Scorekeepers 
are needed for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Anyone who is interested should contact Shelley Guilbaut at 283-2549. 

•An 
Tostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Thursday and Friday April 4th and 5th from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. office. For mom information eall Lou at 283-2071. Minimum two women per tnam. Entry charge is $5 per team. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club will have praetice at 2:30 Tuesday through Thursday this week. It is mandatory all race team members attend practie1-1 either Wednesday or Thursday. For morn information eall Julie Garden. 

•Attention 
crew members: A very important meeting will be held Wednesday, April 3 at 7:30pm in 127 Nieuwland. Be there. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have late sign-ups on Wedrwsday, March 27, 1991 from 6:30-8:30 pm in the S.U.B. office in La Fortune. Absolute final sign-ups must be in by Wednesday, April :{, by calling 283-1093. 

•The 
Cycling Club welcomes anyone who would like to be a part of the "riding team" or who would like to try out for the racing team for the fall. All interested students can contact John Puskas at 283-3317 or the Club Secretary, Mike Black, at 283­1890. 


Walkaway ... 

A Noontime Walking Program 
Lunchtime on Tuesdays and Thursday Starts Tuesday, April 2 12:10-12:40 
Enjoy fresh air and good company 

Men's golf heads South to play in Invitational 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team will travel south to Lex­ington, Kentucky over Easter to compete in the prestigious 54­hole Johnny Owens/Kentucky Invitational. 
This is the second year in a row that the Irish have been in­vited to participate. Last year, the Irish finished 21st out of 25 teams with a score of 636. 
"It will be a really strong field," said Irish coach George Thomas. "It will be mainly teams from the Midwest rather than the Sun-Belt schools." 
"I felt that we would not place high in our earlier tour­nament, but I am expecting to do better than that," stated Thomas. 
The Irish will bring five golfers to the tournament. They will be senior captain Paul Nolta, juniors Mike Crisanti and Mike O'Connell, and sopho­mores Joe Dennen and Chris Dayton. 
"They (the team) are improv­ing by degrees," said Thomas. 
"They are getting good golfing experience and are learning what it takes to play in the big leagues." 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated Hope Coll~ge Thesday, 7-2. This makes the Belles' record 2-0 in their first season in NCAA division III competi­tion. 
In singles competition, senior Sarah Mayer defeated her op­ponent 6-0, 6-0 in first singles. In the number two-spot Mayer's sister, Ellen, a junior, did well in her match, winning 6-0, 6-1. 
Junior Marie Koscielski, playing in the third position was victorious against her opponent winning 6-1, 7-5. In fourth singles, sophomore Natalie 
Meet in front of Washington Hall by 12:10 pm 
THE 1991 CUSHWA LECTURE
Wear good walking shoes 

0.·:") 
ON RELIGION [:iPUBLIC LIFE
rr\.·l~.;ii~ ~ 
2 mile routes, moderate pacfi, 

~~THE RETURN
(~-,'))~ 
Walkaway... pounds 

OF THE 
stress inches 






CATHOLIC LIBERAL'' 
Tuesday, April 2, 1991 8:00p.m.

Smnmer 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium University of Notre Dame ·­



JI01&og 
MARGARET O'BRIEN STEINFELS 
Will you be working, doing an internship, or enjoying a summer in New York? You can live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an NYU Associate or take a course in our exciting summer sessions if you wish. 
• 
Minutes from New York's business and cultural centers 

• 
Apartment-style and traditional residences; single and double occupancy 

• 
Outstanding sports-recreation facility 

• 
Includes the New York Experience, an enjoyable noncredit program exploring careers and culture in New York City 


• Over 1,000 undergraduate, graduate, and 

at
professional courses offered 

New
day and evening 


Maybe... 

Maybe you realized your difference Years ago. Maybe you're just feeling it now. 
Maybe you have felt Harassed, ignored, Discriminated against. persecuted By your community Your family Your friends Your roommate 
We're here. Here for support, here for understanding. 
It's not easy being gay, lesbi­
an, or bisexual in a society 
which is oppressive and dis­
criminatory. 
But we can help you meet oth· er people like yourself, others who have gone through what you're going through, others who have felt what you're feeling. 
If you'd like to know more about our discussion groups or our other activities, call or write for more information. 
And maybe you won't feel alone any longer. 
Confidt11tUzlity guttrllntttti 
r---------------,
' ' 
I ' 
: cut and ptzste logo hut : : from ~roious : 
I adTJCrllSD1l011S I 
I I I I .I tht11dministration won 'l I 
: ftt us pn'nt it nuw... : 
I ' 
' ' 
' I 
L---------------~ 
For more information, you can still call: M•lu! 237-mBS Un>l 232·3330 Mid\ael 2)7-1864 
Or write to us at: 
irutrtA!r,.,...lllrrl' 
PD.Box194 Notre Dame. lN 46556 
Kloepfer did not play, but in the fifth position, freshman Thayma Darby was successful in her play, earning a hard fought 6-4, 7-5 win. 
"We are seeing a lot tougher competition in the teams we are playing against," commented Coach Shelley Shultz on the team's move into the new divi­sion, adding 4 weeks to its spring season. "Our opener against Albion College was our first conference meet." 
In doubles play, the Mayer sisters trounced their oppo­nents, 6-1,6-1. 
In second position, the team of Marie Koscielski and fresh­man Jennifer Kovass lost 1-6, 7-6, 6-3. The same thing hap­pened to the number three team of Darby and freshman Chris Smiggen who lost 6-4, 3­6, 6-2. 
Last fall, co-coach Jo-Ann Nester said , "This has been the strongest recruiting class Saint Mary's has seen in a long time." And now in a second season of play, Shultz said "The freshman are improving and holding their spot." 
&'aAmerican Heart 
~Association 

-. 

-
York 

University 

NYU Summer Boua!ug 
14-A Wash~on Place 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
Your church Your university. 
Maybe you feel alone. 
Maybe you want to meet Other people like yourself, 
To get support To feel understanding To find compassion. 
We're here. 

~--~--~~--­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, March 28, 1991 
Notre Dame cycling club will travel 
Baseball wants an Oscar Mayer
north to the University of Michigan 
By ANTHONY KING for the Irish after Stanford. road, and our boys came 
to compete against 27 other teams 
ByGREGWACH MCCC. After this weekend's trip to Ann Arbor, the Club will
Sports Writer 
travel on successive weekends to a joint Northwestern!U. of Over Easter Weekend, ·the Chicago meet and then to a 
young Notre Dame Cycling Club 
meet at Purdue. On April 20 will travel north to Ann Arbor and 21, the regional to join 27 other schools in a 
championships will be held at two-day cycling competition at 
Miami of Ohio. The top two the University of Michigan. 
teams from each region move It will be the club's eighth 
on to the National Champi­
match this spring, in what is 
onships in Portland, Oregon. the inaugural season for this One of the Club's main con­club sport at Notre Dame. The 
cerns is increasing the number club was formed in January, of women members. Accord­
and is now a member of the ing to Jon Puskas, the founder Midwest Collegiate Cycling Con­
and president of the club, there ference (MCCC). The organiza­
are only three women in the tion of the club provides for en­club, and two are currently in­thusiasts of various experience: jured. Consequently, at each only sixteen cyclists have actu­com-petition, the Notre Dame ally raced in competitions this 
team receives no points for the spring, while the rest of the ap­women's races, which amount proximately thirty-five mem­
to 50% of the total scoringbers are in the riding club. 
possible.Both the riding club and the The Notre Dame Cyclingracing team practice five days a 
Club has refused an opportunityweek, but only the racers travel 
to become an official University to the weekend competitions. 
non-varsity sport because that Club plans include hosting 
status would invalidate the 
three MCCC races next spring. 
sponsorships which are so vital The weekend matches are 
to the operations of the club. composed of three or four 
However, the Cycling Club has events which produce 
applied for and will receive individual and team winners. 
funding as a University club In recent weeks the Irish have 
next fall. been led by graduate student Darren Buck's seventh place 
The club is currently spon­and freshman Sean Carroll's sored by Giro Helmets and the lOth place finishes in the 
ProForm Bicycle Shop in South criterium, a sprint-like race 
Bend, and is in the process of emphasizing speed and control. 
working to find more sponsorsSenior Matt Daflucas 
for the 1991 fall season. The contributed an eighth place 
club enjoys a unique status: its finish in the criterium and a 
members, because they are not 12th place showing in a fifteen­
varsity athletes, can competemile road race. On the basis of for cash (with purses rangingthese performances the Notre 
from $200 to $1,000 per week­Dame Club is currently ranked end competition) and equip­12th out of the 28 teams in the ment prizes. 
Men's track travels South for Meeting of the Minds 
BY ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Track teams from four aca­demic powerhouses will con­gregate this weekend when the Notre Dame men's track team travels to Texas for the Rice Meeting of the Minds Invita­tional. 
Notre Dame will be joined by Harvard and Drake and host school Rice University for the two-day event. 
Last year, Notre Dame fin­ished second to Rice, as the Owls' strong sprint and middle distance corps led the way. Notre Dame had first-place showings in the javelin, 1,500 meters, 110 meter high hurdles, and 5,000 meter run. 
The meet marks the begin­ning of the outdoor season for the Irish, who closed the regu­
--
lar indoor season nearly one month ago. Since the end of the indoor season, several Notre Dame runners have continued competition, as Raghib Ismail and Ryan Cahill competed in the NCAA Indoor Championships in Indianapolis. 
At this meet, Cahill faltered in 
-
his 3,000 meter heat, finishing seventh. Ismail, however, sprinted his way to a silver medal at 55 meters, missing first place by only two hun­dredths of a second. Washing­ton State's Augustine Olobia took the gold in 6.17 seconds. 
Ismail will compete in the 200 meters this weekend, and will face some very stiff competition in Rice's Gabriel Luke. Luke has won the NCAA indoor 400 me­ters the last two years. Neither of these runners is running his usual event, and the race will provide an interesting battle. 
Notre Dame's 4x100 meter relay team features four Irish football players: Ismail, junior Rod Smith, and freshmen Clint Johnson and Willie Clark. John­son will mount the blocks for the Irish, and Ismail will run anchor. Smith will be the sec­ond sprinter, followed by Clark. 
This weekend's meet could mark the return of Irish star Mike O'Connor, who missed the indoor season with an injury to his Achilles tendon. O'Connor, who starred for the Irish cross­country team in the fall, will compete in the 5,000 meters. The Irish will look for a strong performance from O'Connor, as well as from Cahill at 3,000 me­ters. 
Notre Dame looks to do very well in the field events. Javelin thrower Ryan Mihalko, who took first place at the meet last year, and Matt DeAngelis, who earned the silver medal, will again be throwing for the Irish. 
. Discus man Tony Smith, who placed third at Rice in 1990, will again compete, while high jumpers John Cole and Paul Maloney, who placed second and third, respectively, will be Notre Dame's jumping corps. 
Rice sends a strong long jumper in freshman Kareem Streete-Thompson, who placed third at th@ 1990 World Junior Championships, with a jump of 26 feet, 5 inches. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team hopes to get hot and dog the competition at the Oscar Mayer Classic, held this week­end in Minneapolis. The Irish join Stanford, UCLA, and Min­nesota in one of the most pres­tigious events of the baseball season. The 25th-ranked Irish hope to rebound from the two losses they suffered at Virginia this past weekend. 
Notre Dame will face some of the toughest teams they have faced all year. Stanford is ranked fourth in the country. The Cardinals are led by Jeff Hammonds and Dave McCarty. 
"Jeff Hammonds is an out­standing prospect, a Rickey Henderson type," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "McCarty will be one of the top seven picks of the draft this year. The whole club is full of talent." 
It doesn't get much easier UCLA and Minnesota should give the Irish a stiff challenge. 

"UCLA plays in the best base­ball conference, and they have one of their better ciubs this year," said Murphy. "Minnesota is one of the top teams in the Big Ten, and they have been in the regionals the past few years. They definitely have one of the top programs in the Midwest." 
Murphy doesn't think that the Irish have been playing up to their capabilities lately. The extensive road schedule could be wearing them thin, but Mur­phy warns not to underestimate his team. 
"We're not playing our best baseball," stated Murphy. "We've played 21 road games, but we'll be fine. I've learned one thing, though. Don't put anything past this group. We were going against number­three LSU, with their top pitcher on the mound, on the through." 
Tom Price, Pat Leahy, Chris Michalak, Alan Walania, and Tony Livorsi will be pitching for the Irish. Walania had a great outing this past weekend, pitching a five-hit, complete game shutout. · 
"He (Walania) is not even scratching the surface of what he can be," explained Murphy. "As for Livorsi," jokes Murphy, "you can take any nine-year-old kid throwing seashells into the ocean on a Florida beach, and he'll be throwing harder stuff. But he gets them out." 
Overall, Murphy is honored to be invited to the Classic, be­cause only the best programs are invited. So, for the Irish, it would be a big step to win it. 
"This is the most coveted baseball classic," said Murphy. "These are three of our tough­est games, but don't count us out." 

Irish softball heads into Evansville for more than MCC action on Saturday 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
After a homestand sweep of six games against conference foes Loyola, Saint Louis, and Valparaiso, the Notre Dame softball team is headed to Evansville for more MCC play this weekend. The Irish will take on the Evansville Aces in a doubleheader on Saturday. 
One problem the Irish could encounter in complacency. The team is on a roll; they have won six in a row in conference play. Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac's solution is simple. 
"We just have to go after them. We can't hold back and say we are on a roll. Evansville is very capable of stepping up and beating us twice if we don't play with intensity and 
Lax 
continued from page 20 
out an assist to accompany his two goals. Senior John Capano, in addition to seven ground balls, had two points with a goal and an assist. 
"We took away a huge num­ber of their possessions by rid­ing them and not letting them 
continue to improve," said Boulac. 
Leading the attack for Evansville will be Dawn Florea who hit .270 and stole 11 bases last year. Stephanie Spurlock who hit .339, and seven other letterwinners. The Aces split a doubleheader with the Irish in their only meeting last year. Overall, the Irish lead the 3 game series 2-1. 
Boulac has respect for the Evansville team and their abilities. "They hit the ball well and their pitcher who gave us some problems is back again this year," said Boulac. 
For the Irish, the pitching staff remains incomplete. Freshman Carrie Miller who injured her shoulder over break is still questionable. If she can't pitch, the job will go to either junior Missy Linn or sophomore Staci Alford. 
The Irish offense has been hot and cold this season. It was hot against Loyola exploding for eight runs in the fifth inning of the secon~ game of a doubleheader. The team went on to win 12-1 in five innings. 
"Offense is always a question mark," said Boulac. "If we come out swinging the best we are capable of, we'll generate enough runs to beat them." 
The Irish hope their bats are hot on Saturday when they travel to Evansville. Eight conference wins in a row could be a big boost going into the Birmingham Invitational . 

~----------------------------------~ 
Weekend Schedule at Sacred Heart Church HOLY WEEK 

hursday: 5:00pm Evening Mass of Lord's Supper r1day: 3:00pm Celebration of the Lord's Passion aturday: 9:00 pm Paschal V1g11 aster Sunday: 8:00 am 
10:00 am 
11:45 am 

get past midfield," said Corri-liiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;:z:::iiiiiiiiig;
gan. "We've played well in I spurts all season long, but to­day we finally put together a 60 minute game." 
Notre Dame dominated at the face-off circle, taking 22 of the 26 drops, but was short of spectacular in the shooting de­partment, missing several op­portunities at makeable goals. 
"Today's game was a step up form what we've done," said Capano. "We're definitely mak­ing progress and we're one step closer to an NCAA bid-which is our main goal." 
After the weekend loss to Loyola, the number-four team in the nation, a win over Air Force could provide the Irish with the boost needed to make it to their final destination . 
"We didn't make the little things happen against Loyola," said McAnaney. "Today we didn't come out and make great plays, but we just came to­gether and realized that we had to communicate and make the slides in order to play well." 
The Irish will play· against another rival, Villanova, Satur­day at Moose Krause Stadium. 

Thursday, March 28, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Large 58 Prong
Tuesday, April 2 
kangaroos 
59 Beauty1 Plummet 32 Follower abducted by 

7 p.m. Video series: "Just Say No," a film about consci­5 Obtest 
35 Time for hearts Paris entious objection by Paper Tiger Television. Part of the 1oApplies and flowers 
60 Nucleus 

series, ..Analyzing the War." Sponsored by the Gulf Crisis 14"Dies-" 39 Aurora, to 
61 Objectives

Action Group. 15 Hoffman role Achilles 
62 Mimics 16 State in Brazil 
40 Enneads 
63 Foil's cousin 
41 Relief

17 Dan Cupid's 
LECTURES special date 42 Co-Nobelist in Chemistry:
20 Mythical Irish DOWN 
1950

queen
3:30 p.m. Heilly Lectureship in Chemical Engineering, 43 Nation target 1 Stallone film: 
21 Cruising
"Interfacial Transport Processes & Rhelology," Howard 45 Fierce or 1978 
22 Discontinue courageous 2 Comic Johnson 
Brenner, professor, MIT. Hoom 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of 
23 Epicedes woman 3 Latite 
Engineering. 
24 Shoplifter's 48 Bluff, Ark. 
4 Meadow nemesis 
49 Molding edge 5 Adjust 

4 p.m. "Brazil on the Threshold of the Twentieth Cen­
26 Zinke so Branches beforehand
tury" lion. Marcilio Marques Moreira, Brazilian Ambas­
29 Party spoilers 51 Friend: Fr. 6 Track strips 
sador to the United States, Washington, DC. Room 131 
30 Nautical word 54 Sweets of sorts 7 Henri chaser 
DHcio. 
&"--was saying ..." ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Oxford V.I.P. 
MENU 
~~~-Ei 11 Memorable Egyptian leader 12 Obliterate 31 Birds of prey 45 Sense of fitness 52 Sheer
13 Gain or nay follower

Notre Dame 32MCD 46 Writer Shaw 53 "Oh yeah!" Top Round of Beef 55 Half a dance 
18 Put on cargo 33 Town on the 47 DrudgeryBaked Sole Vire 56 Drill sergeant's 
~~-+::'-+-"-+::-i 19 Detroit suburb 48lnd. eager
Manicotti 34So call
..:,:+.::-F.'iliiil-:::+~+.::-1 23 He's sui generis 
50 Part 57 Parker of 
36 Save 51 Over football fame 
240utof-­

.... (cross) 37 Supports St. Mary's """"..,.._:,;..+-:,.+;-~=+::±8R:-I 25 Fiddlesticks! 38 Faineant -:-:+~+=-1 26 Bistro 42 Meets the day 
Roast Loin of Pork Answers to any three clues in this Swedish Meatballs puzzle are available by touch-tone
":::+.::+:'+::-1 27 TV backdrop 43 Rick and A. J. Cheese Enchiladas -=+:+::+.::-1 28 C.S.A. men 44 Plant of the phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each Deli Bar 
~--'-"-_.___. 29 Vendee legume family minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

lolA~. l-IES GQI\IE TQ() FI\R! Sti()On-1 wrrn --....J__-1 I l)Ot>l'\ t-A.\\'-10 1\7 1-\~ Cl£NI\S WE Lt-.0\t5.' 00, KNOCK II 
t 1-18--~ ~Ol.J'Rt I'Rt\N 
tJI'( Rr::x:tll AN.O Gt:\'5 GOOO ~woo -«oo! OIT! \15 
G~ BUT B'( GOU..~' I
I 
n\P.J Of\Rt--.1 

DRA'tl T\\t. Ul-lt. 1>-T 8£\~G 0\JPL\CP.~ 
N\C£ \0 9JS\E . 1 Cl>-1-1\ 1\11>-.1 M-ID ~O'V 
Dl.lPl\C/\1):. '\\; KNOW II.' 

THL S\\tS ~ A(ffRL?/ ­
.. Al"'d w~o CollLd 1'\dkt:. \<1\'1 HE<I~J t~EL Wo07.'f? 0hL'i 1'\-lou, lJI'{ tQIR. SWE:Et S\.ISiE. 

tr:S NOT THIIT YOtJ'~£ ll BIID PE trSON, 17'.5 7 H fiT 'I DON'T PIIRIICCJI..AR L Y L!U TH£ TYPE OF PE~SON You flU. I Mefl/11, IN' T/lfi · TW~ Y£1/RS W£'VE DIITeD I DON'T FEEL LikE. I II£ (h~OWN 
liT ALL. rH£ FileT THAT You'RE aose-fi'IINDf. o, ()NT/fi!ST/1'167 fiNO PerrY tfAV£ BEeN SEVeR£. t;nPEDI#itiNTS ro oul? I?!L!ITIPNSH!P. I KNOW YoU IYJE/IN weu. someT/tne S) 131./T MOSTl-Y YqU'R£ ;JUST 7110UfTJHTt..£S5.NOW, I HOP£ Y(Jr/ OoN T ANY1NINfi? I'VE 51110 Pef?SO;r/!II..L~ IT'S 
I FE€L IT'S 11/hG 10 ei'IP OUt<, /?£UI7i01'1 

.t·.U 

:························································································································· 
: THE ANTOSTAL MUD VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY! ! ~-.!·~._ 1991 NAZZ 
: .... I~" Sat. April 22 1991 : SIGN-UPS: : dl/ A 7:00-1 :00 : Thursday and Fri~ay, Rpril 4th and Stt, r D'r/~"{-Stepan Center : S.U.B. Office 4-6 P.M. .,,_ .;,'1> Info. Meeting! 5 dollars per team "9.•' fl WED. MARCH 27, 1991 • 
• • 7:00 pm
Hurry!!! There's a 64 team m aM. SUB office 2nd Floor LaFortune At least ONE Band Member .IIllJ.S1 be present 
Each team rrust have two wanen and is 
­limited to one varsity or club player. 
•

• Commissioner Applications can be picked up at 2nd· •• • ••• Floor Secretary's desk in Lafortune. Deadline is •••• •• Friday, April 5 . ••
•• STUDENT UNION BOARD • ........................................................................................................................., 


r----=----=-~--~--------­
sports 

page 20 Thursday, March 28, 1991 
NCAA clears Holtz of any wrongdoing at Minnesota 
Men's tennis to face Golden Gop ers on orne cour 
Men's lacrosse recovers to defeat Air Force 14-8 
By DAVE MCMAHON most an 8-3 halftime advan­asking him to make a lot of de­Associate Sports Editor tage. But the Falcons soared cisions," said Corrigan. "It's the 

It was back to the basics Wednesday afternoon for the Notre Dame lacrosse team, who recovered in fine fashion from Saturday's 20-4 loss to Loyola (Md.) with a 14-8 win over the Air Force Falcons (1-2) at the Loftus Center. 
"Our defense played well to­day," said Notre Dame coach 
Kevin Corrigan. "We held them to very few shots and even fewer good ones." 
The Irish never looked back from ·the opening face-ofT, tak­ing a 4-0 before the Falcons scored at 8:52 of the first quar­ter. Sophomore midfielder Brian Mayglothing nailed con­secutive scores in the second quarter, with the latter score coming with :10 left in the half, giving the Irish what was al­

-
back only six seconds later as sophomore Tom Boushell scored the third of his five goals on the afternoon. 
With the exception of Boushell's outstanding day, Notre Dame defensemen Dave Barnard, Eamon McAnaney, Doug Murray, and Pete Gillin kept the Falcon offense at bay. 
"We played as a team and we were all pumped up," ~aid Mur­ray. "We have a great defense with a lot ofleadership." 
Freshman Willie Sutton began the second half scoring for the Irish at the 13:22 mark, which preceded junior Mike Sullivan's third goal of the day with :12 remaining in the third quarter. Sullivan increased his goal output to 14 after six games. 
"Sullivan's been having trou­ble at times because we've been first time he's been in the position where he's not only being asked to score, but he's being asked to control the tempo of the game and run the offense. He's getting better ev­ery game, but he's still disap­pointed with this play. But that's good, because I know he's going to keep getting better." 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, the squad put together its best performance of the season against one of the teams that is fighting for the same regional NCAA tournament bid. ~opho­more Ed Lamb contnbuted 1 1 three goals, junior Brian Schirf added two, Mayglothing dished 
see LAX! page 18 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 
"This matter is closed." 
So said Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz at the conclu­sion of Wednesday's lunch hour press conference. 
So also said the official report of the NCAA Infractions Committee regarding the Uni­versity of Minnesota athletic program, which cleared the be­leaguered Holtz from any and all allegations of wrongdoing. 
"The past three years have been quite difficult for me, my family, our coaches, players and the University of Notre Dame because I have been faced with false accusations, inaccurate reporting, innuen­does, and half-truths," stated Holtz, reading to the media from a prepared statement. 
"I appreciate the conscien­tious effort the Infractions Committee made to arrive at the true facts in the Minnesota case. The results were exactly what I said they would be in early December. I have never said that I didn't make a mis­take, but I have always con­tended that my actions were never intended to gain a com­petitive advantage." 
Holtz, however, was not en­tirely complementary of the NCAA. 
"The one surprising and un­settling thing is that in the face of very clear evidence, the en­forcement staff started on a path to bring some very serious charges against me and refused to alter their course, even though it was obvious that the facts dictated these should be dropped," enunciated Holtz, 

'The LeRoy Gardner accusation was dismissed com~ pletely ... There was absolutely no justification for it.' -Lou Holtz 
speaking in near-whisper tones throughout his prepared statement. 
"Thankfully, the committee looked at the facts and arrived at the correct decision. The in· vestigation process has to take place, and I have no dispute with this or the way things were done, as. for the most part, it was professionally handled." 
The three allegations against Holtz maintained that: 
•Holtz 
gave "approximately $250" cash to linebacker Jerry Keeble in order for Keeble to pay for a marketing course which would allow him to re­enroll at the university and consequently graduate. 

•Holtz 
gave "$25 to $40" to a recruiting prospect as reim­bursement for the loss or theft of his wallet and its contents, which occurred during the prospect's official paid visit to the university. 

•That 
Holtz "gave $500 to academic administrator LeRoy Gardner, which was to be given to linebacker Jerry Keeble" (reported in Minnesota Star­Tribune, Dec.15, 1990). 


The NCAA, however, after conducting an arduous investi­
. gation, cleared Holtz of guilt in the first two allegations. The third allegation was dismissed completely. 
From the beginning of the in­vestigation, Holtz has been par­ticularly critical of the entire third allegation. 
"The third allegation says that I gave a university -aca­demic advisor [LeRoy Gardner] $500 cash to give to a student­athlete and this I vehemently deny," said Holtz in a December 14 press conference. "It is true that on three different occa­sions I loaned him money for his personal needs. 
"As a matter of fact, I even made him a loan upon his re­quest after I was at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. I made these loans by writing three separate checks. I have the cancelled checks as well as the thank you letters from the indi­vidual. Why he said that one of the checks was to be given to athletes, I do not know." 
At yesterday's press confer­
15 
see HOLTZ/ page 

egatlon#1: That Holtz gave approximately $250 cash to linebacker Jerry Keeble in order for Keeble to pay for a course which would allow him to re-enroll at the university and cortsequ~,Q~Iy graduate.f'CAA Ruling: [NCAA Bylaws 16.12.1 and 16.12.2.3-(a)] 

"During the summer of 1985, the then head football coach .aPP!'Q.~iJr1ately $~50 cash to a student-athlete in order for .. young ({:tan to pay the cost of a marketing course...The urse allowed the young man to reenroll at the university for e1985-S§acade~ic year and have one remaining year of rn~titionAithoughthe young man obtained the university's 
Certification of eligibtlity in this manner, the young man had not ipatedin practice or competition with the team since the . 4 apademic year and, at the time of payment, the coach ed the young man would never be eligible to play for the 
u~j,~ersity again." 

Allegation #2: That Holtz gave $25 to $40 to a recruiting prospect as reimbursement for the loss or theft of his wallet and its contents, which occurred during the prospect's official paid visit to the university. NCAA Ruling: [NCAA Bylaws 16.12.2.1 and 16.12.2.3-(a)] 
"During January 1985, while recruiting a prospective student­athlete, the then head football coach gave $25 to $40 to the young man as reimbursement for the loss or theft of his wallet and its contents that occurred during the prospect's recent official paid visit to the university. This cash was provided to the prospect in an automobile near the young man's high school while in the presence of an assistant football coach. This cash was never repaid by the young man." 
Allegation #3: That Holtz "gave $500 to academic admin­istrator LeRoy Gardner, which was to be given to linebacker Jerry Keeble" (reported in Minnesota Star-Tribune, Dec. 15, 
:::::::i::::::··
1990), 

ICAA Ruling: Accusation completely dismissed. lnfractionJ Committee members: Roy F. Kramer, commissioner of the SEC; Beverly E. Ledbetter, vice-president and general counsel at Brown University; Milton A. Schroeder, professor oflaw at Arizona State; David Swank, dean of the college of law at the University of Oklahoma; and D. Alan Williams (committee chair)associate professor of history at UVA. 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
After battling some of the nation's top squads at the Blue­Grey Classic in Montgomery, Alabama, the Notre Dame men's tennis team returns home Friday to face the University of Minnesota. 
Although Irish coach Bob Bayliss believes his team bene­fitted from the grueling road trip, he looks forward to re­turning to the friendly confines of the Courtney Tennis Center. 
"It's great to be home," said Bayliss. "Everyone is healthy, confi­dent, and ready to play." 

Junior All-American Dave DiLucia, who suffered back spasms during the Blue-Grey tournament but still garnered most valuable athlete honors, will play despite his nagging injury. 
"I'm feeling much better," DiLucia remarked. "The injury doesn't concern me." 
However, after facing peren­nial powerhouses UCLA and Georgia, DiLucia is worried about avoiding a mental lapse against Minnesota. 
"We've got to prevent a psy­chological letdown," said DiLucia. "Minnesota is a scrappy team and will be ready to play." 
The Golden Gophers, ranked 22nd in the latest national poll, have dropped three straight matches after beginning the season undefeated. 
Nevertheless, Bayliss believes Minnesota is capable of an upset. 
"They are an extremely competitive team," said Bayliss. "They've had some difficulty making the transition from in­doors to outdoors, but still should pose a threat." 
The Irish coach hopes a Notre Dame victory will boost his 19th ranked squad in the national standings. 
"If we win, our ranking should improve significantly," 

commented Bayliss. However, Bayliss places little importance on the national poll. 
"Regardless of our position, I think we are one of the 12 or 13 best teams in the country," he said. 
"We should be rewarded for our schedule strength." 
In just 21 matches, Notre Dame has faced nine of the na­tion's top ten teams, a schedule that has left the Irish weary but in position to grab a spot in the NCAA Championships. 
"Last year we were not se­lected to compete at NCAAs." said Bayliss. "I felt that in order to improve our chances this season, I had to strengthen our schedule." 
As usual, Notre Dame will be led by DiLucia at number one singles, followed by sophomore Chuck Coleman or junior trans­fer Will Forsythe at the second position. 
The number four slot will be filled by Mark Schmidt or Andy Zurker. 
Ron Rosas, who is coming ofT an outstanding effort in Al­abama, solidifies the sixth sin­gles spot. 
Notre Dame continues its season on Monday as the team travels to East Lansing to battle the Spartans of Michigan State. 








