......------­


WEDNESDAY , MARCH 27, 1991
VOL XXIII NO. 117 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peralez candidacy revoked after campaign violations 
By MONICA YANT some of his posters claimed that of Rule 10, which states that 
News Editor his African-American opponent "Copies of all campaign mate­is a member of that rials and posters must be controversial student group. handed in to the Elections 
The candidacy of Paul Peralez Peralez had also claimed that Committee for approval and for District 1 Student Senator his campaign had been sabo­stamping before posting ... " has been revoked by the taged by opponents who re­The posters must be approved Student Government Elections moved and destroyed his cam­by both the Office of Student Committee for "evidence of paign posters. Activities and the Elections 
eampaign violations," according Allen expressed satisfaction Committee. to Matt Caito, committee chair. with the committee's decision. "I'm really happy to see that the According to Caito's letter, "at 
There will be no run-off elec­rules are followed, because they least four of Paul's posters were tion today for District 1, and are there for a reason." not approved or would not have Billy Allen will be named been approved for posting by
Student Senator pending appeal The ruling to revoke Peralez's the Elections Committee." to the Student Senate, accord­candidacy was a unanimous de­Some of the posters made ing to Caito. cision by the committee, Caito references to his opponent and 
Peralez will appeal the deci­said, and made with the author­to SUFR, urging students to vote sion today in a meeting with ity invested in them by Student for Peralez because of his Student Senate. Senator's Campaign Rule 17. stance against SUFR and its 
In a letter Tuesday to Peralez, Peralez responded to the de­tactics. "You know where Caito said that the committee cision by saying his violations S.U.F.R. stands, you know found him in violation of five were due to misunderstanding where he stands," read one of 
election rules, including failing the rules he called "ambiguous Peralez's posters. to seek approval for campaign and are not explicit enough." In Tuesday's Observer, Allen posters, and defaming his op­said that he was not a member 
ponent during the campaign. "The rules have been consis­ofSUFR. tently enforced, and I haven't 
During the eampaign period, singled out anyone," said Caito Peralez called the violation of the District 1 race took on ra­of the decision. After it was this rule, "a minor infraction," eial overtones. Peralez, who is brought to Caito's attention that explaining that the posters in llispanic, publicly expressed Peralez was posting unau­question were displayed only in outspoken views about Student thorized posters in Dillon Hall, Dillon Hall, for "about ten min­United for Respect (SUFR), and Peralez was found in violation utes." 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Marcia Anne Gillespie, executive editor of Ms. Magazine, speaks at Saint Mary's College Tuesday on gender 
and racial issues. 
Smoke spreads through Kuwait 
He expressed concern that the Peralez said that he was rule prohibits candidates from aware that certain making and displaying posters "overzealous supporters" after Student Activities' normal placed posters defaming his business hours. "If I broke this opponent around Dillon Hall, rule, that's because it's a wrong and said he removed all of rule, an unjust rule," he said. these posters that he saw. 
Peralez was also cited for vio­lating Election Rule 11, which "How can I be responsible for states that a candidate may the psychology of every person "not solicit an endorsement who chooses to support me," he from a (residence) hall." argued. 
One of Peralez's posters read, "That S.U.F.R. guy from Alumni Peralez's behavior during the vs. Paul of Dillon Hall," and the campaign was also questioned letter from Caito said that there by the Elections Committee. He was at least one additional was ·found in violation of Rule poster "in which he is endorsed 18, which states that unethical by Dillon Hall." behavior includes, "insulting or 
Peralez said that he did not defaming other candidates," believe saying that he is from according to Caito's letter. Dillon was implying an en­dorsement, and said he would Two of Peralez's posters were understand ·the charge if he had found to "specifically defame included the name of his rector the character of his opponent," or hall president. according to Caito's letter, and 
"implied defamations exist on "Is this poster really an en­at least one additional poster." dorsement?" he asked. Peralez said he does not be­
Rule 12 of the Campaign lieve he acted unethically, and Rules states that candidates questioned the Committee's de­"will be held responsible for the cision that "accusing him behavior of their supporters and anyone in their campaign 
see PERALEZ I page 4 

organization." 
Gillespie cautions against silence concerning issues 
By PAUL PEARSON take. "The women's movement Associate News Editor can't make things easier on them.... The trick is that you 
Although M'arcia Ann should have a choice about Gillespie, executive editor of what you want to do." Ms. magazine, considers herself a feminist, she said Tuesday She also said it was a mistake that she is not a symbol of de­to call the 1990s the 'post-fem­spair. inist' era. "There's no post­
feminist era in this country as 

"I think change is possible," long as the majority of the peo­Gillespie said at her lecture, ple living in poverty are women "Women and Minorities in the and children." Corporate World," at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Gillespie light-heartedly tried "I am a personal example of to explain why people started how change is possible." talking about the 'post-feminist' 
Gillespie warned the audience age. "Maybe the night before I against being silent about social heard it, I'd slept 100 years and problems, especially racism. became another Rip Van "Silence," she said, "is as Winkle," she said. deadly as action when you're dealing with things like this." On the subject of poverty, 
She said that change has Gillespie said that America's made a difference in gender priorities need to be reexam­and race relations, but has not ined, especially in light of the completely solved all the prob­Persian Gulf War. "If a Scud or lems. a Patriot (missile) landed in 
Harlem or Detroit, then at least 

For example, Gillespie said we'd know we'd get repara­that American society still holds tions." to the idea that "if you want to Gillespie warned the audience 
make some people feel about "quick-fix solutions" like important, you must do so at the ones tried in the 1960s, the cost of others." which, she said, contributed to 
Gillespie also said that the current problems. These America still rejects the notion plans, Gillespie said, were proof that the only acceptable family that "you cannot make right 
model has a man, woman and what's been wrong for centuries two children. "I don't think it's overnight." the only model," she said, "but What Gillespie would like to 
America has chosen to make see is a society where people others feel dysfunctional." care about each other and en­joy the benefits of equality. "I 
Unfortunately, Gillespie said, want all people to be free and one of the things that has be themselves without hurting changed is women's attitude other people," she said. toward the feminist movement. When she asks women about Gillespie's lecture was spon­the movement, she said, "What sored by Saint Mary's Student I get back is that somehow or Activities Board, student gov­other the women's movement ernment and Office of Minority, let us down." International and Non­
Gillespie views this as a mis-Traditional Student Life. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The scorching heat and dry winds of summer could spread the plume of toxic smoke rising from Kuwait's burning oil fields as far as Pakistan and India, the science adviser to Jordan's King Hussein said Tuesday. 
In addition, evidence suggests that some of Kuwait's oil wells have been permanently destroyed, meaning that new wells will have to be drilled to restore Kuwaiti oil production, said Abdullah Toukan. 
Spring rains have contained the spread of the smoke so far, but rainfall will drop to almost zero in April, May a:nd June, and temperatures will rise, combining to loft the soot and smoke higher into the atmosphere, Toukan said. 
The summer sun will heat the soot, causing it to rise, and "the higher it goes, the more it spreads," Toukan said. "You're talking about effects in Iran, Pakistan, even India." The environmental consequences 
, could be disastrous, he said, noting some reports that temperatures have fallen 15 degrees in Kuwait as the soot blotted out the sun. "The drop in temperature has a great effect on livestock, 
people, many other factors," he said. 
Toukan was in New York to address a symposium sponsored by the National Association of Science Writers and the Scientists' Institute for Public Information, a non-profit group that provides news and sources for reporters. 
He said that white smoke is emerging from some Kuwaiti wells, suggesting the wells may no longer be useable. 
Oil under Kuwait is pooled in layers, with natural gas on top 
see GULF/ page 5 


March 27, 1991

page 2 The Observer 

Tuesday's Staff 
News Graphics
L. Peter Yob Susan Sullivan David Kinney Mike Muldoon Alicia Reale 
Brendan Regan Accent 
Circulation
John Fischer Bill O'Rourke Paige Smoron Matt Novak 
Ad Design Dou11 Bronsing TraCI Hupp Production Kevin Hardman Lisa Bourdon Amy Eckert Kristin Lynch Lisa Gunsorek 
VIewpointSports 
Rich RileyRolando deAguiar 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Peace talks to begin on N. Ireland 
• LONDON -Northern Ireland's political parties and the governments of Britain and Ireland announced Tuesday they would begin talks aimed at bringing peace and some degree of self-government to the battle-torn British province. Northern Ireland's Protestant majority supports British rule and much of the Roman Catholic minority dreams of Irish unity. The party most closely affiliated with the outlawed Irish Republican Army was not invited to participate in the talks. Separate but related talks will start within weeks between the British and Irish governments, and also between the Northern Ireland parties and the Irish government. All sides recognized deep differences as they contemplated negotiations. 
U.S.S.R. wins international bank 
• MOS{;W-The Soviet legislature voted today to allow the nation to to participate in an international bank for the first time ever. The bank will open in London on April 15. The bank's purpose is to help the countries of Central and Eastern Europe dismantle their centrally controlled economies, move toward free markets and democracy, and integrate themselves into the global economy. The U.S.S.R. is strapped for cash, and will donate one-third of this share within the first five years of the bank's operations. It will contribute the rest of the money after that. The U.S.S.R. also would like to join the World Bank and its sister organization, the· International Monetary Fund. The Soviet Union is one of the few countries that does not belong to the World Bank.The United States has the most voting power in that bank and it has opposed Soviet membership. However, the Soviets attended last year's annual meeting as observers. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Super Slide Show Pictures are due today in the Box at the LaFortune Information desk. 

• 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will present their'Spring Concert tonight at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. They will perform works by Rossini and Tchaikovsky, as well as arias by Bellini and Massenet with faculty soprano Georgine Resick. The concert is free and open to the public. 


• The Holy Cross Associates will soon begin process­ing a second group of applications for the 1991-92 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 16, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYIE INDEX 197.17 Million 201.61 it 0.48 I&P CON POliTE 367.48 .. 0.90 DOW JONEIINDUSTRIALI 2,864.60 .. 5.69 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD ... $4.30 to$ 359.40/oz. 
SILVER.. 4.1¢ to$ 3.926/oz. 
FORECAST: 
Cloudy and warm today with a 90 percent chance ofT­storms. Cooler tomorrow, with highs in the 40s. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  70  50  
Atlanta  85  50  
Berlin  54  43  
Boston  49  37  
Chicago  75  52  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  8t  72  
Denver  65  40  
Detroit  52  38  
Honolulu  82  71  
Houston  84  70  
Indianapolis  69  50  
London  46  4t  
Los Angeles  57  45  
Madnd  57  43  
Miami Beach  80  74  
Moscow  39  32  
New Orleans  82  62  
NewYorl<  56  39  
Paris  54  43  
56  35  
59  35  
Rome  63  55  
St. Louis  81  68  
55  45  
69  50  
Tokyo  66  50  
59  40  

NATIONAL Prison Guards Stage Sickout 
• CRANSTON, R.I. -A judge ordered prison guards back to work Tuesday after nearly 300 of them staged a sickout to protest state budget cuts. The state corrections director threatened to discipline those who failed to report for their jobs. Prison officials said 188 of the first shift's 239 guards, cooks and nurses called in sick Tuesday. Another 107 of the 17 5 workers on the second shift didn't come in. Inmate visits were canceled at all but the women's prison at the Adult Correctional Institutions and recreation periods were curtailed. Inmates were showing up late for court dates. About 75 guards from the overnight shift were ordered to stay on the job to supplement the few who showed up. About two hours after the start of the second shift, Superior Court Judge Robert Krause issued a restraining order barring the sickout. 
Controller was calm and professional 
• EL SEGUNDO, Calif.-An air traffic controller who put two planes on a collision course at L.A. International Airport was "calm and professional" before and after the accident, a tape recording indicates. The Federal Aviation Administration released the 15-minute recording Monday. Thirty-four people died when a USAir Boeing 737 crushed a Skywest Metroliner turboprop on a runway Feb. 1. Wascher ordered the Skywest commuter plane into position for takeoff on Runway 24-Left at 6:04 
p.m. Twenty-eight seconds later, she gave the USAir jet permission to land on the same runway. She confirmed the order to land 24 seconds later and the USAir pilot repeated the instructions back to her.One minute and seven seconds later, an unidentified voice says, "What the hell!" The crash occurred a few seconds later. 
Associate year. Applications are due April 12, 1991. For more information, please contact Mary Ann White in the HCA office in Moreau Seminary (239-5521) or Mary Ann Roemer in the Center for Social Concerns (239-7949). 
• Feeling Under Pressure? Upcoming exams and pa­pers can increase your anxiety and stress levels. Counseline, an audiotape service of the University Counseling Center, offers tapes: 30-"Anxiety and possible ways to cope with it," 37-"Relaxation Exercise," and 38­"coping with Stress" as a way to help you relieve this pressure. Call 239-7793 and ask for the above tape numbers. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1900: The London Parliment passed the War Loan Act allocating 35 million pounds to Boer War. 

• 
ln1943: The U.S. proposed an Allied government to rule Indochina in place of French. 

• 
In 1941: In Yugoslavia, the army overthrew the government and arrested the two officials who had signed a new treaty with the Axis nations. 

• 
In 1964: New York police revealed the fact that the neighbors who witnessed the murder of Kitty Genovese were indifferent and did nothing to help her. 

• 
In 1979: The Arab League agreed to take steps against Egypt for its signing of a peace treaty with Israel. 



• 

Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
The Observer page 3 


Poverty leaves youngsters hungry and malnourished 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -One of every eight children in America doesn't get enough to eat and is far more likely to become sick and miss school than young­sters who do, according to a childhood hunger study repre­sented as the most comprehen­sive ever undertaken in the na­tion. 
Those 5.5 million children eome from the poorest families, which spend so much of their income on housing that they can afford an average of only 68 cents per person for each meal, said the Food Research and Action Center, which re­leased the report Tuesday. 
The nutrition advocacy 
group's three-year, million-dol­lar survey of 2,335 randomly selected families "paints a dis­turbing picture of the day-to­day struggle of low-income households to maintain a nutri­tionally adequate diet," said Executive Director Robert Fersh. 
"It shows that shelter costs dominate the budgets of most households, leaving little money for food and other necessities," he said. "It shows that many working families, including those with a member employed full time, cannot escape hunger." 
The door-to-door survey was conducted in seven areas of the country where the characteris­tics of the low-income popula­tion reflected the impoverish-ed population of the country over­all. The organization said it was "the most rigorous and comprehensive study of child­hood hunger ever conducted in this country." 
The people surveyed came from families whose annual in­come was 185 percent of the federal poverty level or less. Since the government's poverty level in 1990 for a family of four was $12,700, families of four at 185 percent of poverty would earn $23,495. 
The 185 percentage figure was used because it is the one used to determine eligibility for free school lunches and food stamps. 
The survey found that low-in­come families are resourceful in using whatever government assistance is available to sup­plement their earned income, but they still can't get enough to eat. 
"They are not buying frozen dinners with their food stamps. They're buying things like rice, beans and cornmeal," said Cheryl Wehler, director of the survey project. 
The surveyors asked ques­tions of families in urban areas of Connecticut, Michigan, Minnesota and New York and rural areas of Alabama, California and Florida. Based on those answers, they classi­fied some families as hungry and others as at risk. 
The surveyors said the fami­lies whose children were cate­gorized as hungry had average incomes 25 percent below the poverty level. They spent nearly a third of their income on food, but that amounted to only 68 cents per person per meal. 
Most of the family income went for housing, the surveyors found, with the poorest families spending more than 60 percent of their income on shelter. 
"This share was substantially larger than the typical American household, whose shelter expenses were 22 per­cent of their gross income in 1987," said the report. 


Announces AGreat New Travel Program 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Express® Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. 


In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa· tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
Continental Airlines. address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place youtllike with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side ofour Great Continental Divide. 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL
Ifyou're already a Cardmember; there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

comp~lt terms and condlrk>n.s or thl$ travel ofrr will arrivr with your ceni6cates. Contincmal Airlines alone Is responsible for fulfillment of this ofrer. American Express assumes no liability for Contlnenral Airllnrs' ~rformance. Cl 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Compan~ Inc. 


continued from page 1 
(Allen) of being in SUFR" is a form of defamation. 
The violation of Rule 19 in­volved Peralez's failure to settle the penalties discussed during a phone call with Caito Monday evening. "Paul was asked to remove posters in violation from Dillon Hall and to return them along with a receipt for their printing to student gov­ernment," the letter said. 
He was supposed to complete this process by Tuesday morn­ing, Caito said, and Peralez still had not delivered the necessary materials by 5 p.m. 
Peralez rebutted this violation as well, asking if the end of the day is 5 p.m. 
He said he misinterpreted Caito's instructions and had planned to deliver the materials later that day. 
The decision to terminate Peralez's candidacy was based upon Rule 17, which says, "The Election Committee will be the arbiter of all penalties and re­serves the right to change any penalty based on the magnitude of the offense." 
Peralez argued that "the magnitude (of the violations) was very small." He noted that the posters in question were displayed only in Dillon Hall, "not in every dorm, not in every bathroom." 
There is nothing in the by­laws that prohibits Allen, a current senator, from voting on the appeal, Student Body President Rob Pasin said. However, Allen said, "I would disqualify my vote." 

Deacons to be ordained on campus 
Special to The Observer 
Four deacons will be ordained Roman Catholic priests in the Congregation of Holy Cross in Sacred Heart Church. 
The ordination will take place on April6 at 1:30 p.m. Those to be ordained are John Donato, serving St. Francis Xavier parish in Burbank, Calif.; David Guffey, serving Little Flower parish in South Bend; Paul Kollman, serving St. Joseph's parish in South Bend; and Patrick Neary, serving St. John Vianney parish in Goodyear, 
Ariz. 
The ordaining bishop will be the Most Rev. Paul Waldschmidt, auxiliary bishop (retired) of the Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon. 
All those to be ordained joined the Holy Cross fathers as candidates in the seminary programs at Notre Dame and made their first vows in the Holy Cross order at Holy Cross Novitiate in Cascade, Colo. 
A reception in the Center for Continuing Education will follow the ordination. 
(AP) -Purdue University se­nior Kevin Fink is packing his bags for the greener pastures of Texas to begin his first full-time job. 
The computer science major is more fortunate than many Indiana college seniors who are grappling with a slumping na­tional economy and the horrors of finding employment. 
"I was extremely lucky," said Fink, who secured a systems analysis job with Exxon in Houston after a February in­terview. "Recruiters are saying they're not going to hire as many people this year." 
College career placement offi­cers confirm Fink's good for­tune. While the economic dol­drums haven't struck the Midwest as hard as the Northeast, recruiting in the state is down, job openings are fewer and some seniors are biting their nails. 

"Many of the students who don't have job offers at this stage are very worried," said · Randall Powell, director of the placement office at Indiana University and assistant dean of the business school. "These students haven't seen a reces­sion before. There's no desper­ation, though." 
So far this year, there has been a 5.4 percent drop at IU in the number of interviews scheduled by companies ­22,301, compared to 23,562 last year -and a loss of about 10 percent in the number of companies represented. 
The small decline in inter­views does not accurately re­flect the job climate, Powell said. 
"You do hear that the com­panies still coming to campus have fewer job openings this year," he said. 
Purdue has suffered even more. General Motors, histori­cally the biggest employer of students from the school, has canceled all interviews this year. Overall, the school has seen a 10 percent decline in scheduled visits by recruiters. 
For example, on April 1 this year the school has just four companies scheduled to visit the school. On the same day last year, 28 recruiters had shown up. "That's telling me things don't look real great," said 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 


Women's Bookstore Basketball s1gn-ups 
Ellen ~ealey signs up her t~a":l for the upcoming tournament as Caryn Foley, assistant commissoner and D1ane Hammond, comm1ss1oner, look on. ' 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER THE WOMEN'S LEGAL FORUM THE YEAR OF WOMEN 
PRESENT 
A LECTURE 
BY 
PROFESSOR CASS SUNSTEIN UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO SCHOOL OF LAW 
ON 
"ABORTION, PORNOGRAPHY AND SURROGACY ARRANGEMENTS" 
12:00 NOON ROOM 220-LAW SCHOOL 
COURTROOM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3 
Richard Stewart, director of the Purdue placement office for 30 years. 
For the past five years, Indiana colleges report, on av­erage, that more than 80 per­cent of their seniors land jobs within six months of gradua­tion. 
About 18,000 students at Indiana, Purdue and other state-funded universities are expected to get bachelor's de­grees this year, the Indiana Commission for Higher Education said. Private colleges graduate about 5,000 per year. 
"To me it's scarier this year than others," said Kitty Arnold, director of career placement services for the University of Notre Dame. "It (the recession) is unpredictable. It's not indus­try specific but goes across all kinds of industry lines." 
Students are told to be flexi­ble and willing to relocate. Companies with openings have the upper hand and so can af­ford to be more selective and offer smaller salaries. 
Fink, who's headed for Texas, said he received offers from four companies in Chicago, but the salaries offered were $4,000 or $5,000 less than what he saw last year when he tested the market. 
Placement officials say stu­dents in computer, math, engi­neering and other technical fields won't have to hunt as long as students with liberal arts and other non-specialized degrees. 
"I never thought a recession would affect an honors stu­dent," said Purdue senior Mark Schoeff of Ft. Wayne. "It's been frustrating." 

Happy 21st Birthday Kristin!! No need to run and hide anymore!! Love You, Mom, Dad, Kerry and Katie  
ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage Reserve Your Space Now! NQ Administration Fee .YES_Security System NQDeposits YES On Site Manager NQ Increased Rents for YES Free Locks for Students Students NQ Worries about Break­YES Low Prices Ins While on Vacations YES Near Notre Dame, New, and Spacious North Side of Dougl•• Rd. Between Grape Rd. and St. Rd. 23  


Daily Specials 





THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-36.m. 



Wednesday, March 27, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Leaders of the 1-'act nat1ons nanas as they meet for the last time in a Moscow ceremony, Monday. From left are Generals; Penyu Kostadinov of Bulgaria, Vladimir Lyubov of the Soviet Union, Robert Seles of Hungary and Michal Gondech of 
Czechoslavakia. ____________________, 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editor 
For more information contact 
239-7471 or 283-4624
Dannika 
•
•
•
• t\IU; YOlJ S'rlJ(:K t\'1' NU t'Oil R>\S'I't;n•t
•
• SEI·;: 
• 
• 
• 
• : : 
............................................... ~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~..~~ 
.............. ~.. ............ ,... ......... 


R CHORUS LIDE 
IN 
CIIICJ\Gf)! 
SA'fUJUJA Y, MAUClJ 80-SVNDA }', MAUCII 31 
TRIP INCLUDES: *1'RANSNJnTA'/'ION VIA UNI1'EJJ UMO *LODGING AT 'filE IIIU'ON *DINNER AND "A CIIOIWS UNE" AT Tl/E 
CANOLEUGIIT DINNER 1'1..4 YIIOVSE *EASTER MASS *MUSEl!MS ANIJ SIIOPI'INC 
$35 
ONLY 45 PLACES AVAilABLE 
SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 20 WITH THE SECRETARY ON 2nd FtOOR tAFORTVNE 
•­
' 
• 
•
•
•
• • 
.~ 
~ 


Supreme Court rules on trial procedure 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A di­vided Supreme Court veered from previous rulings Tuesday and said criminal defendants whose coerced confessions were improperly used as evi­dence are not always entitled to new trials. 
By a 5-4 vote, the court ruled in an Arizona case that using such confessions may be "harmless error" if other trial evidence was sufficient to con­vict the defendant. Dissenters said the decision "dislodges one of the fundamental tenets" of justice in America. 
In other decisions, the court: 
•Ruled, 
6-3, that U.S. citizens working in foreign nations for American companies are not protected by a federal hiw ban­ning bias against women and minorities. 

•Removed 
a major threat to the government's efforts to police the savings and loan industry by ruling unanimously that fed­eral regulators may not be sued over their alleged negligence in handling the day-to-day opera­tions of ailing thrifts. 


In the coerced-confession case, the court's dissenters said 
WE 
MOM, DAD, KEVIN, TERESA, LUKE, BRIAN, SUSAN, SEAN, COLLEEN AND MURPHY 
~~~~~~~~~·-~·~~~~~~~~,~~,~~~~~~,~·"·~·-~~~~ treaty on non-usage of thefD)n -..,.~environment in time of war as 
J2-'LS/A©~ri\!il~fN}'l? ~W fi0. ri\!il~ 
IJUJLSIJ\.1 IJ LSW~IJUJIS) 
FRENCH SPANISH 
Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Wednesday, April 3 and Thursday Apri/4 respectively. Students who' have studied French or Spanish in high • school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a Placement Exam prior to 
registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information are available in the LANGUAGE LAB OFFICE Room 251 O'Shaughnessy . 
Sign up closes on March 28 at 5 pm. l 
the decision "overrules (a) vast body of precedent ... and ... dis­lodges one of the fundamental tenets of our criminal justice system" -that such evidence never may be used. 
In decisions dating back to 1884, the court has said confes­sions are coerced and unconsti­tutional if not made "freely, vol­untarily and without compulsion or inducement of any sort." 
Confessions obtained through physical beatings and psycho­logical ploys alike had been ruled inadmissible as evidence in a series of decisions, many of them in the 1960s from a lib­eral court led by the late Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
Today's court is far more con­servative, as reflected by the five-member majority in Tuesday's decision. That major­ity included William Rehnquist, appointed by President Richard Nixon and elevated to chief jus­tice by President Ronald Reagan; the court's three Reagan appointees -Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy; and President Bush's sole ap­pointee, Justice David Souter. 
YOU 
He .was replaced by SoutAr. 
Scott Wallace of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers called the decision "a major change in the legal land­scape for coerced confessions." 
The ruling does not directly affect the court's landmark 1966 decision in Miranda vs. Arizona, requiring police offi­cers to warn criminal suspects about their rights before ques­tioning them. 
Confessions given to police in the absence of such warnings remain inadmissible at trial. But now, such a confession wrongly admitted as evidence would not necessarily require a new trial. 
Tuesday's ruling actually yielded three distinct votes among the justices, with Rehnquist and Justice Byron White taking turns speaking for shifting five-member coalitions. 
The court first ruled that a confession used in Oreste Fulminante's Arizona murder trial had been "the product of coercion." 
Joining White in that holding were Scalia and Justices Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun, John Paul Stevens. 
The court, led by Rehnquist, then ruled that coerced confes­sions wrongfully admitted at trial sometimes are "harmless" and do not require new trials. 
And finally, the court ruled that the use of Fulminante's confession at his trial could not be ruled harmless -entitling him to a new trial where the coerced confession will be barred as evidence. 




Gulf 
continued from page 1 
and water below, he explained. The emergence of white smoke -steam -suggests that those layers have been disturbed under some wells. 
"In the future, extraction of that oil could be difficult," he said. "That means drilling new wells to get Kuwait back into oil producing." 
Toukan, who holds a Ph.D. in theoretical physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, called for an international treaty that would make nations responsible for environmental damage such as that inflicted upon Kuwait. 
"I think there should be a 
an instrument of mass 
destruction," he said. "Once you do that, anyone who does it will be accountable and will have to pay the damages. At the moment, there's no mechanism." 
Such a treaty would mirror treaties on nuclear. chemical and biological warfare, he said . "What we're really worried about is their effect on the environment," he said . 
Toukan said King Hussein began warning of the potentially disastrous effects of oil well fires in November, but the warning was mostly ignored. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRca:;RAM• 
~ 
0American Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 


page 6 The Observer Wednesday, March 27, 1991 


Bush appeals Gorbachev to end the stalling and break the arms stalemate 
WASHINGTON (AP)-With a summit conference on hold, President Bush has appealed to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to exert his author­ity over the military to break a stalemate on two stalled arms treaties, officials said Tuesday. 
Bush is asking the Soviet leader to remove stumbling blocks to the already-signed Conventional Forces in Europe treaty before the United States is willing to attend a super­power summit on nuclear arms, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said. 
A personal letter from Bush to Gorbachev delivered Monday is a thinly veiled attempt by Bush to get Gorbachev stop de­ferring to military commanders whose doubts about weapons reductions is considered by the administration to be the main reason for the stalemate. 
The letter urges the Soviet leader to "energize the process" by asserting his authority, officials who declined to be identified said Tuesday. 
Bush also discussed the Soviet situation with the visiting German finance minister Theo Waigel. 
Waigel told reporters they talked about "how difficult it is 
Elderly men fight intruder 
LAKEWOOD, Colo. (AP)-1\vo elderly brothers, blind and hard of hearing, were bloodied but unbroken after they fought off a club-wielding intruder who broke into their house. 
Edgar Maulfby, 84, and his 79-year-old brother, Tom, re­quired a total of 40 stitches for head cuts after Sunday's attack. 
Police said the attacker first showed up on Friday, posing as an insurance agent and de­manding payment of a $40 bill. 
The brothers gave him $20, then called the insurance com­pany and learned he was a fake, Police Sgt. Mike Powell said. When the man showed up again on Saturday, they refused to let him into the house. 
On Sunday, he forced his way in by breaking through the screen door. He then attacked Tom, and Edgar came to the rescue, authorities said. 



NOTICE 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan)and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving_ ~h~ .university. T~e exit interview will review your rights and respons1b1~1t1es f?r repay1ng your loan(s), deferment options and loan 
con;olJdatlOn benef1ts. 
For your convenience, we have scheduled 12 exit interview sessions. The following are the last 4 of these sessions. 
6:30-7:00 p.m. 

Wednesday, March 27th 7:15-7:45p.m.
Room 220 Hayes-Healy 8:00-8:30 p.m. 8:45-9:15p.m. 
To prepare for the exit interview it will be necessary to know the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Financial Aid Office. Please allow one day for processing. 
right now to provide economic aid for the Soviet Union for a number of reasons." 
Waigel said Bush raised the Soviet oppression in the break­away Baltic republics and said "it would be very important for the Soviet government to set a positive sign in the Baltic states, and that then would make it easier for us to ... to provide economic support for the Soviet Union." 
The United States is upset over what it considers Soviet violations of the spirit of the CFE treaty. 
So deep are the disagree­ments that Secretary of State James Baker III was unable to break the deadlock during a trip two weeks ago to Moscow even though he brought along his senior arms control experts. 
Negotiations are due to re­sume among technical experts on April15 in Vienna. 
The differences on the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (START) are possibly deeper -so much so that Baker found the Soviets unwill­ing even to discuss them during his Moscow trip. 
Baker's analysis of the situa­tion is that Gorbachev was de­ferring to the Soviet military on arms control in exchange for their political support as he tries to survive criticism of his reform program. 
Negotiations in Vienna to put the treaty into effect went into informal recess last Thursday with no resolution of disputes that are keeping the Bush ad­ministration from submitting it to the Senate for ratification. 
From the U.S. standpoint, the biggest problem was the Soviet military's insistence that three naval divisions assigned to shore duty be exempt from cut­backs required under the treaty signed last November in Paris by Bush, Gorbachev and the leaders of 20 other countries. 
Similarly, negotiations to re­duce long-range nuclear weapons went into recess in Geneva last Wednesday without agreement on how to monitor the contemplated 30 percent reductions in missiles, bombers and submarines. 
The stalemates are prevent­ing the rescheduling of a Bush­Gorbachev summit in Moscow. 
"We would still like to hold a summit. We would like to re­solve these CFE matters as a means of expediting and setting up a summit date," said Fitzwater. 

RESERVATION 
CALL NOW I 683-1959 
* 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

* 
APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

* 
GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY Master Mini Warehouses 






TO GRADUATES 

Dirty work AP P~oto 
Mike Petrus works in a Kuwaiti oilfield to shut off the valve of an 011 
and gas well damaged by retreating Iraqi forces Monday. ------' 

Some employers promise 
you the world ­
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in ('!xploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
FlZOM--­
MARIGOLD 



MARKET 
O~l:?'-e::R AN EAS\£12-:BASkt:T' AND Lt:T U.S PROVtt:?E­lt+E ---rr<,EATS ! 
+-EASTE.1<. g-F<.t=:A'DS 
+ ~+?t=c_IAL C:::t10COLA-rE e<S<GS 
A,ND lf<uFF"L-E.S MR.S~ PF<~NDA'BLE~ APPLE-Sf



The Observer 
page 7 

Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
Study: Church displayed as authoritarian by media 
not is beyond my competence," 
NEW YORK (AP) -A study of he said in an interview. 
news coverage of the Roman In the 15 years included in 
Catholic Church shows that the the four time frames studied, 
church has been the report says the four media 
overwhelmingly portrayed as organizations ran more than 
an oppressive or authoritarian 10,000 news items about the 
institution, its authors said U.S. Catholic Church from 
Tuesday. which a sample of 1,876 news 
According to the study of four items were "qualitatively" 
major news organizations, chosen, then "quantitatively" 
church conflicts often were pre­tabulated. 
sented as between the church The report claims that 
hierarchy and lower-level content-analysis method allows 
clergy. laity and others. researchers to "classify the 
news objectively and 
"The result was a long­systematically." 
running media drama that 
pitted a hidebound institutional However, it was noted that in 
hierarchy against reformers some categories, relatively few 
from within and without." said stories out of the total were 
the report by the Washington­considered in making the com­
based Center for Media and parative counts. 
Public Affairs. Everette Dennis, executive di­
"The descriptive terms most rector of the Gannett 
frequently applied to the church Foundation Media Center at 
emphasized its conservative Columbia University, said the 
theology, authoritarian forms of content-analysis method is 
control and anachronistic ap­technically valid in some fields, 
proach to contemporary soci­but questionable in dealing with 
ety." news reporting. 
Since news largely stems 
The study. which involved from controversy and problems, 
counts of sources quoted for or he said the negative element 
against church positions, said almost invariably prevails, 
more of them criticized various whatever the institution 
teachings than defended them involved. "It's not all Valentines 
over the past three decades. or warm responsive features," 
Hegarding sexual morality, Dennis said. the report says 56 percent of views quoted disagreed with The report says news sources church positions, including 91 "supporting the church were in percent of priests and 86 the minority on the broad range percent of laity quoted, but of debates involving sexual church positions were upheld morality and church authority," by 88 percent of bishops such as rights of dissent, birth quoted. control, clerical celibacy and 
role of women.. "The major 
"Church teachings on sexual exception to this pattern morality were endorsed almost involved ecumenical efforts," exclusively by members of the the report says. "Even on this hierarchy," it said. "The overall dimension, however, opinion eiTect was to present the debate was split on whether the church over sexual morality as a split was helping or hindering efforts between the church hierarchy to promote inter-religious and everyone else." unity." 
The study examined four Concerning church authority major news organizations -and dissent. the report says, The New York Times, The "Opinions in news stories Washington Post, Time consistently favored magazine. and CBS News -decentralizing power. Support over three five-year periods for change was almost twice as from 1964 to 1988. News frequent as defense of the executives of the organizations status quo." declined comment until reviewing the report. On birth control, for example, 
53 percent of the sources 
The study was sponsored by quoted disagreed with the the Knights of Columbus, a na­church stand against tional lay Catholic fraternal or­contraception, but on abortion ganization. and the Catholic 56 percent of sources agreed I.nague for Heligious and Civil with the church position, the Hights. an anti-defamation or­report says. ganization to defend religious It says most stories that em­rights. ployed descriptive language de­
S. Hobert Lichter. a political picted the church as oppressive scifmtist who directed the study and lacking relevance to the with two sociologists, said it modern world. "In sum, the lin­found that the media had guistic tone of news coverage "given a negative image of the has been generally and increas­church." ingly unfavorable to the 
"Whether this was justified or church," the report said. 

AP Photo

Excommunicated Archbishop Lefebvre dies 
Archbishop Lefebvre, shown here, died Monday in Switzerland. The Archbishop was excommunicated by the Vatican in 1988 after consecrating bishops without Papal approval. 
Policemen answer not guilty to assault charges in LA beating 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Four white policemen pleaded inno­cent Tuesday to charges stemming from the videotaped beating of a black motorist after their attorneys failed to have a grand jury indictment tossed out. 
In soft voices, a sergeant and three of his officers answered "not guilty." If convicted. the four men face maximum penal­ties of four years to nearly eight years in prison. 
Sargeant Stacey Koon, 40, and Officers Laurence Powell. 28, Timothy Wind, 30, and Theodore Briseno, 38, are charged with assault with a deadly weapon and unnecessar­ily beating a suspect under color of authority. 
Koon and Powell are also charged with filing a false po­lice report and Koon is further accused of being an accessory in a cover up. 
In the case that prompted na­tional outrage. motorist Rodney King is seen in a video being beaten 56 times with batons, kicked and shot with a Taser electric stun gun during a nighttime traffic stop March 3 in Lake View Terrace. Doctors 
say King may suffer permanent 
damage from 11 skull fractures. 
The videotape was made by a neighborhood resident, George Holliday, from his balcony. He was honored at a ceremony by Kenneth Hahn, a Los Angeles County supervisor. Called a hero, Holliday said, "Things like this need to be done." 
In other developments, the California Highway Patrol completed an internal investi­gation of two of its officers on the scene, a county grand jury has reconvened to hear evi­dence about numerous officers who watched the attack, and the FBI has run into trouble questioning some police offi­cers. 
During the Superior Court arraignment. lawyers for the four charged policemen lost bids to have the indictment de­clared insufficient on grounds the charges were vague. They also failed to show the men were entitled to preliminary hearings. 
The officers were ordered to appear in court Thursday. Judge Gary Klausner said a trial would probably begin the week o(April 28. 
Defense attorneys claimed prosecutors were rushing the case to trial because of publicity generated by the videotape. 
Deputy District Attorney Terry 
White denied the allegation. 
"This office has done a very 
thorough and professional job," 
he told the judge. 
State highway patrol Commissioner Maury Hannigan and three executive assistants will review results of its probe, said CHP spokesman Sam Haynes. The findings and rec­ommendations will be given to the district attorney's office, the state Department of Personnel and the governor's office. 
The investigation reviews the actions of highway patrol offi­cers Tim and Melanie Singer, who were among 21 city police officers present when the attack occurred. 
FBI agents seeking to ques­tion about 250 officers at the station where the indicted offi­cers were assigned called off interviews with about two dozen officers when investiga­tors were told they would not voluntarily cooperate. a lawyer said. 
Cecil Marr, an attorney for the Police Protective League, which represents the 8,300-member city force, said the FBI is insisting on only voluntary interviews. 
FBI officials. who sent dozens of agents into the field, refused to discuss the investigation. 


\ 
sue 


Chimes Deadline 
Get your Poetry and Stories to 303 Madeleva by March 28th_ 


In the business world, you run across many means of communicating. 

, 

-------........-­
"' 
---------~ 
I -----­
w
~ 


The Apple SuperDrive is part of every Macintosh computer sold today. This disk drive can not only read Macintosh diskettes, but also diskettes used in IBM or IBM compatible computers. That means that you can take your friend's diskette with a Lotus file created on an IBM computer and pop it into your Macintosh. With Apple File Exchange, a software program shipped with every Macintosh, you can quickly transfer the Lotus file to a Macintosh file so it can be used with your favorite Macintosh spreadsheet application. 
If you really want to run applications you use on your IBM or IBM compatible computers, you can do so by adding either software or hardware to your Macintosh. 
Bottom line, the Macintosh is the best of both worlds. It's multi-lingual! 
This week, anyone can enter into the free drawing of a Mac SF/30, by 
registering in the computer lab ofHayes-Healy. The drawing is on April 18th, 
and you must be present to win. 
Maximize Your Potential. Macintosh. 
=n ll Ev 




G R 0 U P 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -~-. ~ 
Wednesday, March 27, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Democrats plan '92 campaigns amid Bush's post-war popularity 


IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -The 1992 race for the White House is starting with the arrival of long-shot, undeclared Democratic candidates who are attempting to use domestic is­sues to blunt the postwar euphoria benefiting President Bush. 
"George Bush thinks we should have a coronation," said former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, one of the possible contenders. "I checked the Constitution and there's no pro­vision for a coronation." 
None of the long-shots is ready to formally stake his claim to the Democratic nomi­nation for president. But this is where it starts, with the coun­try's first major Democratic test in the caucuses of Feb. 17, 

Many Kuwaiti residents line up for water from a truck Monday. 
AMHERST, Mass. (AP) ­

Water service still has not been restored in war-torn Kuwait. 
Contending that a "significant other" isn't just another tax­


payer, s~lectmen in this college town have extended the state's anti-nepotism laws to their friends and lovers. 
In a 3-1 vote Monday night, selectmen adopted a policy bar­ring the appointment of their own relatives or "significant others" to town boards and committees. 
Selectman Harry Brooks cast the lone vote against the policy. Last month his fiancee Margot Parrot publicly broke their en-
Each year heart attack, stroke and other cardiovascular diseases kill nearly one million Americans, almost as many as all other diseases com­bined, according to the American Heart Association. 


~®~)7 ~®W)) 
~£IT I1£1r~~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT· WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°k APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. YOU MAY QUALfY FOR ANY OF THE FOUOWING LOANS BASED ON YOIII SIGNATURE. 
• MASTERCARD· 16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. · ~QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 

loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
line-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! r(l NOlRE CWv1E'VIJ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from I he Unlversllv 
1992. 
And if nothing else, the poten­tial candidates say it's time to start poking holes in Bush's ar­mor. 
In a swing through the state this week, two-time candidate Jesse Jackson assailed Bush's "moral vulnerability" as the na­tion's focus shifts from the Gulf War. 
While Jackson said he wasn't ready to decide on a third run, "we will not allow this race to be a referendum on one piece of real estate in the world." 
Jackson arrived on the heels of 1972 Democratic nominee George McGovern, here to test the waters, and just hours be­fore Tsongas met with party activists Monday. 
Though early and iffy, such potential contenders serve a 
purpose, state Democrats say. 
"The race has to begin some­time," said Attorney General Bonnie Campbell, a former Iowa Democratic chairwoman. "This is the beginning of the season when people check it out. Iowa is a good place to do some reality-testing." 
"You can't win an election un­less you pose alternatives," said Rep. David Nagle, D-lowa, an­other former state chairman. 
Tsongas, for one, offered his own options. 
"The Number one objective we have as Democrats is to convince this country we know something about economics and drop some of the old dogma," said Tsongas, who left the Senate in 1984 because of cancer, which he has since beaten. 
Amherst selectmen extend anti-nepotism laws-to bar 'significant others' from office

Lining up for water 


Joins with the Obserwr in hoping for the quick and safe return of our friends 
and loved ones in the 
THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Persian Gulf. 
gagement, maintaining she had failed to gain appointment to the Finance Committee and the Planning Board because of her romance with Brooks. 
"This is totally absurd," said resident Mary Wentworth. She said it is already hard enough to get volunteers to work in town government. 
But Selectman Carolyn Holstein said a policy dealing only with spouses and immedi­ate family members did not "adequately reflect the diverse nature of relationships in Amherst or in the 20th cen­tury." 
The policy defines a "significant other" as "the per­son or persons that, in the view of each individual board mem­ber, shares an intimate or ro­mantic relationship with the board member, and/or with whom the board member shares a close personal rela­tionship or confidences." 
Campbell, who chairs the board, said the policy was an attempt to limit close connec­tions between selectmen and other policy making boards. 
"I don't think we're delving into anybody's private life," she said. 







Viewpoint

page 10 Wednesday, March 27, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Buslnass Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••••••••••••••..••..•.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .•••••••.••••••••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor••••••......•...••••John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily-Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
'Politically correct' education 

WHM THIS R£POI<T/3R. 50 FAR f:lX){) &VeNIN3. IN KU{,(}AIT HAS 8f£N A8l£ 70 tr.tr-J:j 7U.k3H, TOOAY, AUlHJRm&S (1)/lfT/N­OTH#? /ff-6 R£501JWFUt JXJR­UtO THetR {,(}A/<. A6AINST NAU57:3 HA~ Ft/31? 70 NeAR8Y THt Mt'Ot4 EfYPRPvtNTIN6 1/.5. ~yUN/75 fOR HAN[)()UTS.l 7Ht:M ffl)'r1 ReaiV!NG IWO 
5tJI'PU55.' 
u • " 

preaches racism and sexism 
Most of us have heard about the radical changes taking place at "politically correct" colleges and universities across America. Many schools now prohibit derogatory remarks directed at homosexuals, mi­norities, the disabled ("differently abled" to the polit­ically correct) and women ("womyn" to the politically cor­rect). Students of politically correct professors are taught that the heart of Western civi­lization is racism, sexism and classism. 
Some universities, yielding to pressure from politically correct students and faculty, are eliminating traditional course requirements with teach the classics (such as Plato's Repub­lic and Dante's Divine Comedy). These and other events are the result of a readily identifiable system of beliefs shared by many radicals in the education field. This article attempts to set out the basic precepts of politically correct education. 
1. Truth is Lies. The idea that anything can be objectively known is dismissed as hope­lessly archaic by these new thinkers. According to Professor Barbara Herrnstein Smith of Duke University, "there is no knowledge, no standard, no choice that is objective." No set of values or beliefs is better than any other because no ob­jective standards are available to use in making comparisons. Anyone who searches for objec­tively verifiable facts, what we would call "truth," is deluded. 
Any idea or theory that relies upon one or more "truths" is false because all truth is leis. Thus, democracy is no better than Nazism and Christianity is no better than satanism. In fact, 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
New York University's Denis Donoghue, a proponent of the politically correct theory of literary deconstructionism recently admitted in the New York Review of Books that "nothing in deconstructionism provides an ethical criticism of Nazism." 
2. Knowledge is Ignorance. When we think of "knowledge," we think of historical facts, mathematical theorems, and the like. This, say the politically correct, is the essence of being ignorance. Every field of study from physics to philosophy is essentially political. thus, the facts and theorems that come out of them are nothing more than political slogans. If we take these slogans at face value, we are building our ignorance, not our knowledge. 
We only gain true under­standing when we grasp the re­alities of racism, sexism, and classism that are behind the politics. This precept is well ac­cepted in politically correct cir­cles. for instance, the New York Times recently reported that young academics at a ref,:ent conference generally agreed that "just about everything... is an expression of race, class, or gender." Likewise, Annette Kolodny, the dean of humanities at the University of Arizona admitted to a reporter that "I see my scholarship as an exten­sion of my political activism." 
3. Freedom is Slavery. The traditional American emphasis on protecting the rights of indi­viduals is an anathema to the politically correct. The reason 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
fro this is best illustrated by a recent incident at the University of Pennsylvania. A student was disturbed by some of the things being said at a seminar she was attending on racism, sexism, and heterosexism. She sent a note to an administration offi­cial in which she expressed her "deep regard for the individual and my desire to protect the freedom of all members of soci­ety." The administrator sent the note back to her with the word "individual" underlined and the following commentary: "This is a RED FLAG phrase today which is considered by many to be RACIST. 
Arguments that champion the individual over the group ulti­mately privilege the 'individuals' belonging to the largest or dominant group." When we focus on issues of in­dividual freedom, we frustrate and obscure issues of group justice, say the politically cor­rect. Thus, when Americans claim to promote justice and uphold freedom, they are really saying that they promote and uphold the de facto slavery of racism. 
The basic precepts of political correctness are as simple as they are Orwellian: truth is lies, knowledge is ignorance, and freedom is slavery. From them flow other dictates of political correctness such as the belief that the Constitution is essen­tially an instrument of oppres­sion, that Shakespeare should be studied only to show his elitism, and that there are no such things as good and evil. Big Brother wants you to be po­litically correct. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
POOR 
f?tV/1.5... 
I 
'The extreme limits of wisdom -that's what the public calls madness." 

Jean Cocteau 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 





Viewpoint

Wednesday, March 27, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Issues of political correctness present at NO 

Dear Editor: 
Political Correctness. The term strikes fear into individu­als of all political stripes, although those on the conser­vative end of the political spec­trum have attempted to appro­priate the debate regarding what is and is not appropriate to say and discuss by claiming that they are the victims of some sort of left-wing plot to stifle their thought. 
I academia, groups such as the National Association of Scholars have come out against what they see as the liberal in­filtration of the university. Are these critics right? Is there some sort of plot to persecute conservatives? Or is it the other way around? Are conservatives actually trying to stifle every­body else? Or, is there a prob­lem at all, and if so, does it ac­tually break down along the aforementioned ideological lines? 
To answer this, we must first dtlfine our terms. Political cor­rectness can be defined as a syndrome whereby a certain group of people attempt to limit thought and foist on others their particular view of the world. This definition says nothing about actually who does this to whom, or in what particular context. The issues around which political correct­ness has become a problem in­clude the whole of what univer­sities teach, the respect or lack thereof given to certain groups of people, basic political thought, and whether or not people are allowed to say cer­tain things in certain situations. In one way or another, all of these issues have arisen at Notre Dame. 
Since it has been the more conservative elements of society which have been crying foul re­garding this issue, I will start with their alleged grievances; however, I will show that they do not have sole claim to al­leged persecution for violations of the reigning politically cor­rect live of thought. Probably one of the most contentious is­sues in higher education today Is that of core curriculum. Leaving aside the question of whether or not a core curricu­lum Is actually necessary, let us look at the debate and its im­plications. 
On the one hapd we find those who advocate a traditional core curriculum, which is based, al­most exclusively, on Western thought. On the other, there are those who would like to see some sort of modification of this, including the introduction of non-Western thought and perspective, as well as the greater inclusion of women and minorities, who have been sorely undArrepresented in many colleges and universities. 
The defenders of the tradi­tional order claim that special interests are trying to under­mine Western Civilization as we know it, are attempting to force their particular political perspectives on others, and call those who disagree with them racist, sexist and many other epithets. Thus, they claim to be victims of the scourge known as political correctness. 
What they do not seem to un­derstand is that through de­fending their view of education and society as the only one which should be taught, they themselves are propagating a particular view of the world, one which is seen as absolutely correct and not open to criti­cism. Thus their charges of po­litical correctness persecution actually mask their own biases. One can disagree about how other perspectives should be in­corporated into our educational system. Yet, it would seem that those who staunchly defend the old order may actually be the ones who are perpetrating the vile crime of political correctness which they decry. 
It is hard to understand how any educated individual can make a claim to knowing every­thing and fight so hard against all change in the way things are done and what people learn. Unless, of course, they saw any change in the current system as inimical to their interests and a threat to their dominance in society... ? This is intellectual and cultural arrogance at its worst, and far from being vic­tims of political correctness, those who adhere to it re per­petrating their own version of this. 
The heart of this debate is whether or not diversity should be encouraged in the university, and whether or not perspectives other than the. dominant ones should be looked at. Of course, this diversity can be approached in many different ways, and those who are close­minded in any direction in what they would like to see included should probably be condemned. Consciousness, as those resisting these changes claim, cannot be legislated; yet, attempting to open up people to other perspectives (especially at a place like Notre Dame where most students come with a fairly narrow and close-minded view of the world) can be and should. 
This is not totalitarian impo­sition of thought, but an at­tempt to open people's minds. Certainly nobody, especially those in the business of expand­ing people's minds, can be against this? 
Another area where political correctness is seen is in the hiring process. Many people claim that attempts to increase women and minority represen­tation in the faculty is tanta­mount to a quota system, and therefore should not be at­tempted. There are some who do, indeed, argue for quotas as a way to right past wrongs in terms of discrimination. Again, 
come diversity, and whether or not suppression. under a general harassment this is a worthwhile enough The second example regard-policy, thus protecting free goal to spend significant re-ing speech has been played out speech while at the same time sources promoting it. on campuses across the coun-restricting acts which are Most of the talk regarding try, and is starting o become an harmful to others. A policy quotas Is actually a cover for issue at Notre Dame. A proposal oriented toward speech as such many who do not see diversity has been going around which is probably another instance of as a significant value or who, seeks to restrict discriminatory political correctness. again, might see this as a harassment. That is, as part of One final example of political threat. Only a small number its code of conduct, the correctness at Noter Dame who actively support diversity university wants to ensure that concerns the treatment of gays call for strict quotas. Rather, nobody engages in any activity and lesbians. Many who do not most call for increased efforts or makes any comment of a find this a suitable orientation to expand the applicant pool to derogatory nature which de-complain that the reigning ide­reflect the actual diversity means an individual or a group ology which is sweeping the within society. This includes based on race, sex, sexually country forces them to accept it. advertising in special publica-orientation, etc. The sentiments Of course, while people can tion targeted at women or mi-which this is based o·n are hold whatever opinion they norities and getting access to surely commendable. Yet, a want, they should respect indi­special mailing lists. With an couple of questions come to viduals and maybe even try to expanded applicant pool it is mind. First, how can this be find out what they condemn. expected that diversity will be squared with the first amend-However, not even this happens realized in the hiring process. ment? Some supporters say that at Notre Dame. Gays and les-Probably no issue is more since this is a private university, bians are persecuted and the controversial than the issue of we do not have to be concerned objects of malicious attacks, speech. More than any other, with the issue of free speech. and the university acquiesces in this actually cuts across ideo-It would seem to me that this. In fact, it has forced its logical lines. Two examples, whether or not Notre Dame ideology-in this case a reli­which have occurred both at might be exempted from this, it gious ideology-on the campus Notre Dame as well as across is precisely because it is a uni-as a whole and perpetrated the country, will serve to illus-versity that it should be ex-such act of political correctness trate this point. tremely concerned with this is-as preventing the gay and les­sue. A university can only truly bian organization from adver­The first concerns the recent operate in an environment tising in The Observer, thus war. Many people who where individuals have the limiting free speech. supported the war thought that right to say and investigate Thus, we see that political those opposed to the war either almost anything. Yet, correctness is not restricted to should not be allowed to discrimination and harassment one particular political orienta­express their opposition or that is a definite problem at Notre tion. In addition, those who in doing so they were showing Dame, and there must be some claim to be victims of political themselves to be traitors. I can sanctions against it. correctness frequently use this hardly think of a more chilling to hide their own attempts to example of the attempt to However, a discriminatory impose a certain ideology. At impose a political viewpoint on harassment policy as such may Notre Dame, as at other uni­others. In the first case, this is go too far. Any policy which versities, the question is one of such a clear-cut violation of the attempts to restrict speech is diversity and basic respect for freedom of speech which many open to abuse and is inimical to individuals. Is this so problem­who supported the war said the the free exchange of ideas atic as to become an issue of 
U.S. was fighting for, that one which is supposed to occur at a basic ideology? For the sake of wonders whether they actually university. Many opinions which our educational system,as well take this idea seriously or not. appear in The Observer, for as the future of society and, in­The second case smacks of example, are offensive to many deed, the world, I hope not. McCarthyism, where every people, yet that is no reason to dissent, every thought that does restrict their dissemination. Kurt Mills not conform to a particular Actions and speech which are Off campus viewpoint is deemed subversive actually harassment, on the March 18, 1991 
SUFR graffiti does not earn student's respect 
Dear Editor: This act of vandalism does nothing to augment any respect 
In response to the recent which I have had for them proliferation of SUFR gratliti previously. across the Notre Dame campus It only serves to dangerously demanding the respect of the erode it. Notre Dame community, I have only one thing to say: SUFR Sanjay R. Singhal needs to earn their respect, not Off campus demand it. March 22, 1991 

... 
----
-----------------------~----------­



Accent 

page 12 Wednesday, March 27, 1991 



A true patriot 
Effective leadership, Patriot missiles and Notre Dame ROTC are-emblematic of colonel's 25-year career 
By JOHN FISCHER ROTC program, Hemphill has As a result, heroin dealing, Accent Writer twice led -Notre Dame's pro­racial and war tensions multi­gram to first place in rankings plied. This situation paralleled 
I make my way to the of 78 Midwestern collegiate many of the problems that the Pasquerilla Center which ROTC programs. He also serves American public as a whole was houses all ROTC operations for on Notre Dame's Committee on facing at this time. the University, reminding my­Ethics in ROTC. As part of a large-scale Army self of who I am going to talk to. Hemphill describes his mis­effort to alleviate these prob­
Lieutenant Colonel Douglass sion here at Notre Dame: "We lems, Hemphill and the First Hemphill, commissioned since make sure that students who Sergeant of the G-5 Division in 1966 in the United States Army, will be commanding as lieu­Germany worked to eliminate was one of the officers chiefly tenants are ready as can be to the drug use in their battalion. responsible for the Defense go into any situation and take Hemphill recalls, "We tried to Department's approval and de­over and lead it." Greater than establish an environment where ployment of the Patriot missile his formal teaching duties, the good soldiers realized that in the mid-1980's. Hemphill finds the most signifi­they could stand up to the other 
Reflecting on the possibilities cant aspect of his task is as a soldiers (who were) selling of events had the Patriot never round-the-clock example for the drugs. Sheer numbers over­come into existence, I make my ROTC students. He sees his role came the drug problem." way up to Col. Hemphill's sec­as a model showing the right One night stands out in par­ond floor office. In my position way to act and to lead. ticular for Hemphill. The clean as Accent writer, student and Aside from his ROTC duties, soldiers directly confronted the campus activities are my beat, Hemphill, also a deacon at drug dealers and told them they and rarely do I write about Sunnyside Presbyterian Church, could no longer live with the topics of national significance. teaches a War Law and Ethics battalion if they persisted in Accordingly, I look forward to class for the Theology depart­selling drugs and adversely in­getting an interview with Col. ment. He also makes various fluencing the younger soldiers. Hemphill underway. Hemphill says that the volun­
He greets me, shows me into 'From his 25 months teer Army of the 90's does not his office, and makes sure I am as an advisor in experience such problems as comfortable. "It must be a slow the drug epidemic anymore. 
news day," he says, "if they Vietnam ...to his The main difference is that to­diers in the field through sur­speedy end of the Gulf War, want to do a story about me." current tour at Notre day's soldiers, who have volun­face-to-air missile systems. At Hemphill is at a loss for words 
Slow news day or not, the tarily joined, have better rea­times in its history called for the only time during the in­facts of Hemphill's 25 year ca­Dame, Hemphill has sons for being there than the Sentinel and Safeguard, among terview. He uses simple yet elo­reer stand out. From his 25 run the gamut of draftees of the 70's did. others, the system eventually quent phrases such as "pretty months as an advisor in nations and His years in the Pentagon became known as Patriot. great; I'm very proud," to ex­Vietnam to his ultimately suc­through 1986 marked The extraordinary effective­press his opinion of the work of cessful efforts in helping to assignments.' Hemphill's efforts as a Force ness of this anti-aircraft system both himself and the various clean up the Army's drug prob­occasional presentations in Integrated Staff Officer (FISO) in tests led Hemphill and the staffs responsible for the lem in the mid-70's, to his work some Government classes. whose mission was the approval various staffs working on the Patriot. on the Patriot missile in his Hemphill sees an immense of deployment of the Patriot project to attempt to pre-empt He recalls with pride a phone Pentagon days in the 80's to his difference between the Army of missile system. possible efforts of other call from an acquaintance in current tour at Notre Dame, the 70's and today. An "Army of He says the Pentagon was not governments to take out the the Army on the night the air Hemphill has run the gamut of draft and drift" was precedent one of his favorite assignments; Patriot system once it was war broke out. His colleague nations and assignments. in the years following the difficulties in getting a weapons deployed. informed him that when the 
Vietnam War, most prominently system approved are amplified first Patriot took out a Scud, the 
He finds his most significant in the years 1975-77. At this when there is a concerted Since it would be near impos­lives of 500 people in the field work, however. to be his cur­time, Hemphill served as a opposition to the system. sible for aircraft to take out the were saved. rent extended tour of duty as an Brigade Adjutant, Battery Both within and outside the Patriots, the most effective 
Hemphill describes a FISO as
instructor in the ROTC program Commander, and Battalion military, critics of the Patriot choice to counter the Patriots here on the campus. The Operations Officer for what he missile were numerous and would be to use missiles. Thus, a kind of "honest broker," 
working among the various
customary four-year tour has describes as an "isolated divi­outspoken in the early 1980's. 
'Has Hemphill had groups and committees involved been extended a year in his sion" in Germany. As FISO for the Patriot system, in a certain project. It is thecase, and the prospect of having . At that time, due to factors Hemphill, along with the mis­the opportunity to task of the FISO to make sureto leave is one of the factors in such as the draft, a huge prob­sile's designers, adequately dis­speak to the former that all problems are addressedhis imminent retirement. "I lem involving drugs and drug proved the objections to the and solved, and that militaryconsider my work here to be dealing existed in the Army's system and improved the opponents of the leaders are informed as to thethe most important and the ranks. The concentration of the Patriot's shortcomings. 
Patriot since its evolution of the project. Themost fun of my career," he says. Army's supervisors and com­Their work culminated in a effective showing in FISO helps to make the finalAn instructor of Military manders in the Vietnam region 1984 demonstration of the presentation of the project toEthics and the Law of War, also led to a loosening of control Patriot and the subsequent de­the Gulf War? "No," the leaders, for their ultimateamong other classes in the in other areas of the world. cision by then-Secretary of 
Hemphill says with a decision.


Defense Caspar Weinberger to 
Awards and decorations
deploy the system. smile, "but I'd love to. 

Hemphill has earned include a 
Has Hemphill had the oppor­They seem to be Bronze Star, a Meritous Service tunity to speak to the former keeping a low profile Medal, an Air Medal, and a opponents of the Patriot since Republic of Vietnam
lately."

its effective showing in the Gulf Psychological Operations Medal, War? "No," Hemphill says with Hemphill sought to strengthen among others. Despite the a smile, "but I'd love to. They the Patriots' capability against varied career that has earned seem to be keeping a low profile missiles. him so much recognition, lately." In this problem the system Hemphill still insists on the eve 
The evolution of the Patriot met with one of its biggest dif­-of his retirement that his most missile can be traced back to ficulties. The Patriot system important assignment has been the Army's first efforts in the could be endowed with anti­his time here at Notre Dame. 50's to develop an air defense missile capabilities, but it could As to his future plans, artillery, dubbed Nike Ajax. not violate the ABM treaty to Hemphill, who earned his MA in ·Nike Ajax gave way to Nike which the United States wits International Relations here, Hercules as technology im­bound. says, "I want to stay at Notre proved in the late 50's and early The developers of the missile Dame. I would love to continue 60's. were eventually able to provide to teach a bit. It's hard for me 
The rise of the ICBM threat in a limited anti-missile capability to imagine not having some the 60's and the subsequent to the Patriot and still stay kind of contact." Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty in­within the limits of the treaty. It The interview is finished. fluenced the types of systems was this capability against After a mutual exchange of developed by the Army at this enemy missiles which rendered thanks, Hemphill reiterates his time. the Patriot so successful against statement that if he is to be 
The focus by the time of the Iraqi Scuds in the Gulf War. featured in a story, then it must ABM treaty could safely be When asked how he feels be a slow news day. shifted from protection against knowing that his efforts for the Thanks to the Patriot missile ICBMs to protection of the sol-Patriot contributed to the and the quick ending of the war, 
.... 

Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
page 13
The Observer 

Lemieux leads Penguins to win over Philadelphia 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Mario Lemieux provided all of Pittsburgh's offense with his 26th career hat trick as the Penguins took another step toward their first division title with a 3-1 victory over the slumping Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night. 
Lemieux scored twice on first­period breakaways and added his final goal in the second period for the first hat trick ever by a Penguin at the Spectrum. He was forced to leave the game with 7:42 left in the third period after being struck by the puck in the face. 
Goaltender Tom Barrasso help11d extend the Flyers' slump by stopping 48 of Philadelphia's season-high 49 shots. Philadelphia is 2-9-0 in its last 11 games and missed a chance to gain ground on Washington and New .Jersey in the race for the final two Patrick Division playoff berths. The Flyers have 75 points, two less than the Capitals, who lost to Buffalo, and the Devils, who tied the New York Hangers. 
Pittsburgh's 40th victory of th11 s~ason tied a team record sPt in 1988-89. The P11nguins have never finished first since entering the NHL in 196 7. 
Lemieux, who has a point in 21 of the 25 games he has played this season, gave the Penguins a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal at 9:35 of the opening period. Larry Murphy chipped the puck away from a Philadelphia defenseman to Lemieux, who raced in and beat Pete Peeters on a breakaway. 
Craig Berube tied the game 4 7 seconds later with his seventh goal of the season, knocking Keith Acton's rebound past Barrasso. 
Rangers 3, Devils 3 
NEW YORK -Mike Gartner scored twice as the New York , Rangers erased a three-goal deficit in the second period to tie New Jersey. 
Gartner's 47th and 48th goals, both on shots from the top of the right circle that goalie Chris Terreri couldn't handle, helped the Rangers rally for a point. They trail first-place Pittsburgh by two points. 
New .Jersey, which got power­play goals from Claude Lemieux, Bruce Driver and Brendan Shanahan in the first 21 minutes, played its third straight tie. The Devils pulled even with Washington for third place in the Patrick Division. 
Sabres 4, Capitals 2 
LANDOVER, Md. -Tony Tanti and Grant Ledyard scored 
1:42 apart early in the third period as Buffalo beat Washington. 
Dave Andreychuk added two goals for Buffalo, which solidified its hold on third place in the Adams Division. The Sabres lead Hartford by five points with three games to play. 
Washington, which got two goals from Soviet rookie Dmitri Khristich, has 77 points and is tied with New Jersey in the Patrick Division. Both teams are two points ahead of Philadelphia. 
Blackhawks 2, Leafs 2 
TORONTO Jeremy Roenick's 41st goal of the season with 1:32 left in regulation time gave Chicago a tie with Toronto, extending the Blackhawks' unbeaten streak to nine games. 
Roenick took a cross-ice pass from Michel Goulet and lifted the puck under the crossbar behind goalie Peter Ing, who stopped 40 shots. Steve Larmer had the other goal for Chicago, now 7-0-2 in its last nine games. 
Rob Ramage and Kevin Maguire beat Ed Belfour, the NHL's winningest goalie, from center ice earlier in the third to give Toronto a 2-1 lead. 
Bruins 7, Nordiques 4 
QUEBEC -Cam Neely scored twice to reach the 50-goal mark for the second straight season as Boston finally solved Quebec goaltender Ron Tugnutt and beat the Nordiques. 
Tugnutt stopped 70 shots last Thursday night in a 3-3 tie at Boston Garden. This time, the Bruins took only 35 shots, but beat Tugnutt six times before Neely got No. 50 by scoring into an empty net for a shorthanded goal with three seconds remaining. 
Jim Wiemer scored twice in the second period for Boston, which overcame a 3-1 deficit. Stephane Morin had two goals for Quebec, the NHL's worst team. 
Flames 7, Canucks 2 
CALGARY, Alberta -Theoren Fleury scored his 48th, 49th and 50th goals of the season to lead Calgary past Vancouver. 
The 5-foot-6 right wing capped ofT his three-goal game with a tip-in at 18:02 of the third period for his 1OOth point of the season. Fleury got No. 49 earlier in the third period he came in on a 2-on-1 with Robert Reichel, who set him up for an easy goal into an empty net. 
Defenseman AI Macinnis scored two power-play goals and added an assist for Calgary, which remained three points behind first-place Los Angeles in the Smythe Division. The Canucks are tied with Winnipeg for the final playoff berth. 
Kings 2, Oilers 0 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Wayne 

..
Gretzky ended a 10-game goal­scoring drought, the longest of his career, by scoring twice to lead Los Angeles over Edmonton. 
Gretzky hadn't scored since March 7 before beating Bill Hanford at 8:23 of the first period. He added his 40th goal of the season and 717th of his career -tying Phil Esposito for third on the all-time list -into an empty net with six seconds remaining. 
The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all

Classifieds 
spaces. 

' RIDE NEEDED '  Apts. for rent -2 bedrm, kitchen,  Resumes....Professional quality  IT'S NOT TRUE THAT CHEAP  SENIOR FORMAL  
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE  To Indianapolis for Easter Break ill Will pay gas ill Call Tricia@ 284-4314.  dining, living. $380 includes utilities. Call 219-232-5563.  272-5667. (Tom Williams) WITH BEST WISHES Wedding Consultant for N.D/  PEOPLE SEND CHEAP CARDS. SMART PEOPLE SEND CHEAP CARDS. CHEAP PEOPLE DON'T SENDCARDSI  Anyone interested In helping with music for the mass at Senior Formal, please contact Stacy at 271-1893.  
287-4082  Senior girls leaving May '91 -4  SMC students. Phone 272-5640.  WE CARRY 48 DESIGNS PRICED  
SEEKING SUMMER SCHOOL  Bedroom east side home near  SO CHEAP YOU'LL LOVE 'EM I  
RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL QUALITY. CALL 272-5667.  STUDENT FOR BABYSITIING -15 HOURS PER WEEK-5 MIN. FROM N.D. 234-7407.  Notre Dame for lease, all appliances incl. wahr/dryer, central air, finished basement, frplc., super  91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC? Need roommate? Call David (NO '90) 217-753-1641.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  1991 REGATIA T-SHIRTS  
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM  4 to 5 person student rental.  Call  M-F  12-5  $8.00  
$1000 in just one week.  Earn up to  HELPIIINEED A ROOMATE FOR  219-232-5563.  SUPER SLIDE SHOWI  Join our Farside Card Club  
$1000foryourcannpus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 morel This program works!  CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL DOUG X2051  FOR SALE  Don't miss the slides before the Rocky Horror Picture  and get a great deal\ HELP'HELP'HELP'HELP'HELP  On sale Mon., Tues., & Wed. @ NOH & SOH @dinner or x3928. On 4/20-YA GOTIA REGATIAII  
No Investment needed. Call 1-800­ PC-compatible laptop  Show on April 261 Turn In  If you are driving to  
932-0528 Ext. 50  288-5859  IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOMEI  pictures of you and your  MASSACHUSETIS for Easter and  
3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY  friends before MARCH 28  still have room in your car, or if you  Hey Joe Gavigan, perhaps it's  
""ATIENTION SMC'"" If anyone would like to purchase a St. Mary's class ring, I transferred  FOR RENT  OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM W/BAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY.  to THE BOX at the information desk in Lafortune.  are interested in driving and need a ride,please call me. Anne 288-0597.  possible for Porky Pig to have a pole politely poked up his pooper, so to speak.  
after purchasing mine and would like to sell ill It's like brand new-and cheaper than the regular selling price! Give me a call, I graduate soon I Thanks! Julie  Now Leasing LAFA VETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS  234-8116, EVE. TWO round trip tickets to London. Good through Dec. 1991 . $350 each or best offer.  DON'T MISS IT!!! Go ahead. Put it on.  HELP! Group of apathetic seniors were too lazy to sign up for Bookstore but would like to play. Sell us your team (price negotiable). Face it, you'll probably lose in the  We're "HUNG LIKE TATONKA"­come see us play -we'll be wearing shorts  
273-9442 $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. hours 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO Ave. & Howard Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at  AVAILABLE Amenities lnc!yde· -WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFTI  239-7962 days. sofa, luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583 Bar, Five Stools, Misc. glasses. 289-5345.  You know you want to. Everybody's dol ng it. Yes, it's... Engineering Sweatshirt Day! Be and nerd, and be proud. ADOPTION: Happily married loving  first round anyway. Call Scott@ X1650. Who is Joe Raven? HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there with AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. (As reported in NY Times and Let's  Hi Beauty! Smoochie? Nappy? I love you, Silly Goon Nushka, I luv you twinkiebuttl hee hee, dt 10 Reasons why 2A Farley took Dillon to Any1hing Goes  
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles  CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW.  couple wish to adopt. We promise  Gal) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000  10. You guys can do the best  
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room.  232-8256  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  a fine education, financial security, and the best of all our hearts.  A HAPPY HOME FOR YOUR  sandwich dance. 9. We hoped Brian would wear the  
Send leHer with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514.ILOST AND FOUND I  GRAD. WEEKEND BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. FREE TO GOOD HOME: Black and white classic tabby cat, 4 yrs old,  Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Tom and Debbie collect 212­866-8315. Going to HOUSTON/DALLAS?  BABY. A Southern California teacher and film/businessman seek to fulfill dreams through adoption. We offer financial security, education, opportunities, and  J. J. shirt. 8. We wanted to ask you to the danca before Keenan guys did. 7. You guys are the best at Thumper. (Hey blow mel)  
!lost my ID. If you have found it, please return It to me. I am very lost without lt. I had all of my 10 In a blue NO holder. My name Is Comalita Haysbert. You can reach me at the 113270. HELP MEl LOst 10. PLease call 3270 If you have found it. All of my 10 was In Blue NO plastic case. I'm lost without it. Comallta M. Haysbert  3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $555 Month + Deposit Ten Month Lease 232-3616 TIME IS RUNNING OUT ­Call before the BEST houses are gone 233-9947.  spayed, all shots, currently flea-free. Good conversationalist & plays a mean game of hot dog fetch. Comes with own USED scratching post, food, toys, litter. Guilt-ridden owner moves to NO PETS apt 4/27. Help us out, call Cassie @W:239­5396/H :287-3758. TICKETS  Too much stuff to bring home for the summer? Help me fill mY. truck. Contact Joe-X1433 HOP HOP HOP To the Bunny Shop We have Easter Baskets and lotsa candy just for you I The Country Harvester  extended family. Please call collect Maria and Peter (818) 893-2795. I need a ride to Columbus, Ohio Holy Thursday. Call Lisa at 4929. .....Ride Needed........ I need to get to Michigan State for Easter break, so if you're going there or anywhere nearby, please give me a call scon x4561  6. We can't play hockey either. 5. Michelle knew that she wanted to ride the bus home alone. 4. We all agree that the Jayhawks, Chiefs and Royals are the best teams ever. 3. Who else would help us consume our abundance of beverages? 2. Am 220's carpet knew that Ralph would be in Chicago. 1 . We both know what It's like to be envied by every other dorm on  
Lost! Blue Denim Jacket at off­campus party Saturday. Key In pocket call x2092.  EASY LIVING '91-'92 yr. 3 great student houses. 234-3831 or 288-5653  2 A-trip tix. anywhere for $250 a piece. Call2649 or 3149  LaFortune Lower Level M-F 12-5 SPRING OPEN HOUSE  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. Helpll need  campus. Thanks for a terrific time! I  
LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, with "Mountainside Community Pool Staff" on It between LaFortune & Fisher on Man 3/25. Be real cool and return It to Jeff x1873. WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373. NEEDED: ride to IU for Easter Break Missy 2577 $$  Summer sublet, 6/1 0 to 8/20, rent negotiable. Full house. Good neighborhood. Call232-8783 7-9 pm. Available. 2 Student Rental Homes for 1991-1992 school year. Call 232-5411 (9 A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to 5 P.M. Monday thru Friday). Grad student needs housemate next school year. Nice place, furnished, Inexpensive. 288-5859. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097  "Airline Ticket-FOR SALE ROUND TRIP 3/28-4/02 to Kansas City'" $80.00 or Best Offer. Call 271-5667-500N I PERSONALS] ADOPTION: Loving, professional coupLe will give your newborn the best things in life. Let us help you through this difficult time. Medical expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Barbara and Joe any1ime. (800) 253-8086.  Here's your chance to win your very own Mac SEI Visit the RILEY GROUP in Hayes-Healey LAB Mar 26-27 and register to win Mac SE to be raffled off in April. SPRING OPEN HOUSE M-F 12-5 At THE COUNTRY HARVESTER WE HAVE CUDDLY BUNNIES, BOUNTIFUL BASKETS, HOME­MADE CHOCOLATES AND LOTSA TOYSII SEE YOU THEREI  WATERFRONT PROPERTY! Ill PROFESSORS ... Ill ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU JUST GOING AWAY THIS SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE HOUSE? RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED TO WORRY THIS SUMMER I CALL ANYTIME...283­3470...PLEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONEI CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER" REFERENCES UPON REQUEST.  Herbdog-Hope you didn't stress too much over that Klaus quiz... CrabbyO'B Crabby O'B XOXOthe BOB Yeh, what she said CrabbyO'B Obviously this new job must be too much for you Honey. It's affecting your personality .. Maybe you beHer start napping In the aftertnoons. Crabby O'B. Love, MOM Mr. Olympia--congrat on the win .. Now get that dorm on solid financial ground so you can pay for dinner dates with strangers from afar .......  - 
...  


,..-----------~~--------------------------~-------~­
SCOREBOARD

page 14 Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w L Pet GB L10 x-Boston 50 19 .725 7-3 Philadelphia 38 31 .551 12 5-5 New York 34 35 .493 18 7-3 Washington 26 42 .382 23112 4-6 New Jersey 23 47 .329 27112 4-6 Miami 21 49 .300 29112 2-8 Central Dlvlalon x-Chlcago 51 17 .750 B-2 x-Detrolt 43 27 .614 9 5-5 x-MIIwaukee 42 28 .600 10 8-4 Atlanta 38 32 .543 14 4-6 Indiana 35 35 .500 17 6-4 Cleveland 24 44 .353 27 3-7 Charlotte 20 49 .290 31 112 3-7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Dlvlalon 
w L Pet GB L10 x-Utah 46 22 .676 8-4 x-San Antonio 44 23 .657 1112 6-4 x-Houston 44 24 .647 2 10-0 DaMas 25 42 .373 20112 3-7 Orlando 24 43 . 358 21112 5-5 Minnesota 22 45 .328 23112 3-7 Denver 1B 51 .281 2B 112 2-8 Pactnc Dlvlalon x-Portland 49 1B .731 5-5.. x-LA Lakers 50 20 .714 112 8-2 x-Phoenlx 47 22 .6B1 3 7-3 Golden State 36 33 .522 14 5-5 Seattle 32 35 .47B 17 3-7 LA Clippers 26 44 .371 24112 6-4 Sacramento 18 49 .269 31 2-8 x-cllnched playoff barth 
Monday'• Gamee Orlando 115, Golden State 106 Washington 113, New Jersey 106 Houston 100, Chicago 90 Detroit 118, Denver 94 Utah 109, Milwaukee 98 LA Laketa 99, Sacramento 89 LA Clippers 1 06, Phoen lx 94 
Tueaday'a Gamea 
Late Gam.. Not Included Charlotte 97, Golden State 94 Indiana 123, Atlanta 113 Miami 104, Cleveland 98 New Jersey 98, Philadelphia 95, OT New York at San Antonio, (n) Minnesota at Phoenix, (n) Seattle at Portland, (n) 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Indiana at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Orlando at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Lhah at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Portland vs. Seattle at Tacoma, 10:30 p.m. 
NABC ALL-AMERICANS 
The 111111 AII-An.rlu teame u aelected by the National Aeaoclatlon of Baaketball Coachea: 
Dlvl..on I Firat Team Billy Owens, 6-9, junior. Syracuse; Larry Johnson, 6-7, senior, UNLV; Shaqullle O'Neal, 7-1, sophomore, LSU; Kenny Anderson. 8-2. sophomore, Georgia Tech; Steve Smith, 6-6, senior, Michigan State. Second Team Stacey Augmon, 8-B, senior, UNLV; Christian Laettner, 6-11, junior, Duke; Jim Jackson, 8-6, sophomore, Ohio State; Rodney Monroe, 6-3, senior, North Carolina. State; Keith Jennings, 5-7, senior, East Tennessee State. Third Team Calbert Cheaney, 6-6, sophomore, Indiana; Todd Day, 6-B, junior, Arkansas; Alonzo Mourning, 6-10, junior, Georgetown; Eric Murdock, 6-2, senior, Providence; Chrls-Corchlanl, 6-1, senior, North Carolina State. 
Dlvlalon II Firat Team Corey Crowder. Kentucky Wesleyan; Dave Vonesh, North Dakota; Armando Becker, Central Missouri State; Lambert Shell, Bridgeport; Myron Brown, Slippery Rock. Second T..m Mike Cornelius, Misaourl Western; Dwight Walton, Florida Tech; Chris Pllz, Missouri-St. Louis; Ulysses Hackett, S.C.-Spartanburg; Terry Ross, Cal Poly-Pomona Third Team Randy Stover, Philadelphia Textile; Len Rauch, LeMoyne; Adrian Hun, Metropolitan State; Keith Hill, Shippensburg; Harold Ellis, Morehouse. 
TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE American League 
BASEBALL 
Pnick Dlvlalon BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Optioned Anthony 
w L T TeHord, pitcher. and Jell Tacken, catcher, to 
x-Pittsburgh 40 32 5 
x-NY Rangers 35 30 13 Pete Stanlcek, Infielder, from their minor-league 
Rochester of the lntematlonal League. Released Washington 35 35 7 New Jersey 31 31 15
C9JT1>. 
Philadelphia 33 36 9CLEVELAND INDIANS-Placed Ever Magallanes, NV Islanders 23 44 10Infielder, on waivers tor the purpose of sending him Adame Dlvlelonto ttte minor leagues. Optioned Kevin Wlckander, y-Boston 43 23 12 x-Montreal 38 29 11pitcher, to Colorado Springs of the PacHic Coast 
League. Sent Brian Johnson, catcher, to their mi­
nor-league camp lor reaaalgnment. 
x-Bullalo 30 30 17 
x-Hartlord 31 36 10 Mathews, pitcher. Sent Andy Allanson, catcher, 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Released Greg 
Quebec 15 49 13 
and Archie Corbin, pitcher. to their minor league carrp tor reassignment. 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Paul Abbon and 
Nonie Dlvlalon Rich Garces, pitchers; Jarvis Brown and J.T. Bruen, 
w L T outfielders; Terry Jorgensen, third baseman; and 
x-Chlcago 47 22 B Paul Sorrento, first baseman, to Portland of the 
x-St. Louis 44 22 11 Pacific Coast League. Optioned Derek Parka, 
x-Detroh 33 36 B 
x-Minnesota 28 37 14 National League 
catcher, to Orlando of the Southam League. 
Toronto 23 44 11 
Smythe Dlvialon 
x-Los Angeles 44 23 10 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to Ierma with Gary Carter, catcher, on a one-year contract . Designated Dave Walsh, tor assignment and 
x-Calgary 44 25 7 placed him on waivers . 
x-Edmonton 35 36 5 
Vancouver 27 42 9PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Optloned Andy Ashby, 
Winnipeg 26 41 11 International League. 
pitcher, to Scranton-Wilkes-Barre of the 
x-cllnched playoll berl1 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Cialmed Jose Melendez, 
y-ctinched dilliaion ... pitcher. on walvers from the Seattle Mariners. 
Monday'• Gamea I'll GF GA B5 32B 291 B3 286 256 77 249 253 77 266 254 75 248 260 56 215 282 
9B 2B9 256 B7 268 242 77 27B 267 72 227 260 43 225 345 
I'll GF GA 102 273 205 99 300 247 74 262 2B1 66 248 257 57 236 308 
9B 329 244 95 323 24B 75 256 258 63 238 306 63 255 279 
WILLIAM & MARY-Named Trlna Thomas 
SPRING TRAINING LINESCORES 
At Palm Springs. CalK. Chicago (N) 020 020 000--4 11 3 c.llfomllo 214 221 13l-16 22 3 
Boskie, Lancaster (5), Asaenmacher (8) and Girardi; Langston, Eichhorn (7), Young (B). Harvey (9) and Parrish, Orton (7). W-langston, 3-0. L-Boskle, 0-1. HR-Calltornla, Felix (1). 
At V uma, Ariz. Soon Fnnciaco 302 000 000--5 II 0 Sen Diego 000 010 000-1 7 o Black, Wilson (5), Segura (8), Brantley (9) and Decker, Manwaring (B); Ulllqulst, Andersen (5), Nolte 
(8) and Santiago, Dorsett (7). W-Biack, 1-1. L-lilliqulst, 1-2. HAs-San Francisco, Williams (1)
Mitchell (3).  '  
At Halnes City, Fla.  
Detroit  100  100  100--3  10  0  
Kanua City  000  000  ()()().-(1  7  1  

Gullickson, Leiter (7), Gleaton (8), Meacham (9) and Tettleton; Gubicza, Corbin (4), Schatzeder (5), Crawford (7), Montgomery (B), Aquino (9) and Macfarlane, Mayne (B). W-Gulllckson, 2-0. Gublcza, 1-1. Sv-Meacham (1). HR-Detrolt, WMaker (2). 
At Bradenton, Fla. Chtcago(A) 102 001 002-13 Pitlolugh 014 002 OOx-7 10 2 
Perez, Rosenberg (6), Edwards (7), Hernandez (B) and Marullo; Smith, Palacios (6), Belinda (9) and McClendon. Prince (7). W-Smnh, 2-0. L-Perez. 2-1. Sv-Bellnda (2). HR-Chlcago, Lyons (2). 
women's basketball coach. 
Home  Away  DIY  
25-12-2  15-20-3  19-13-1  
21-11-7  14-19-6  14-14-6  
20-14-5  15-21-2  16-12-3  
22-9-7  9-22-B  13-14-6  
1B-15-6  15-21-3  12-15-6  
14-19-6  9-25-4  11-19-4  
25-9-5  IB-14-7  18-6-5  
22-12-5  16-17-6  14-12-4  
14-13-11  16-17-6  11-12-7  
16-16-5  13-20-5  9-15-6  
8-23-8  7-26-5  6-13-B  
Home  Away  DIY  
26-8-4  21-14-3  1B-7-4  
21-9-7  23-13-4  16-11-3  
25-13-0  B-23-B  13-15-3  
18-15-6  8-22-B  9-16-5  
15-21-4  6-23-7  10-17-3  
24-9-5  20-14-5  18-B-4  
27-8-2  17-17-5  16--9-3  
20-15-3  15-21-2  11·15-2  
17-17-5  10-25-4  10-19-1  
17-1B-5  9-23-6  10-14-6  

1984-Michael Jordan, North Carolina 1983-Ralph Safll)&On, VIrginia 1982-Ralph Safll)&On, VIrginia 1981 -Danny Alnge, Brigham Young 
1980 ­ Michael Brooks, La Salle  
1979 ­ Larry Bird, Indiana State  
I 978 ­ Phil Ford, North Carolina  
1977 ­ Marques Johnson, UCLA  

1976-Scon May, Indiana 1975-David Th0f11)80n, N.C. State 

To our favorite Macro Maniac! Wishing the 4th a happy 21st! 
Alex, Kevin, Rudy, Cara, Pat, Paul 

Dlvlalon Ill Firat Team Brad Baldridge, Wittenberg; Andre Foreman, Salisbury State; Chris File, Rochester; Lamont Strothers. Christopher Newport; James Bradley, Dnerbein. Second Team Michael Smith, Hamilton; Dale Turnquist, Bethel; Michael Nelson, Hamilton; Kevin Whitmore, Colby; David Hicks, Centre. Third Team Jason Forrestal, Illinois Benedictine; Waldemar Sender, Southeastern Massachusetts; Leon Hill, Emory & Henry; Andy Enfield, Johns Hopkins; Eric 
EHiott, Hope. 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
Streak Lost 1 Lost2 Lost 2 Won 3 Won 1 Won I 
Lost 1 Won 1 Lost I Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 1 Won 1 
Streak Won 5 Won 2 Won 12 Lost 1 Won 3 Lost 1 Lost 7 
Won 2 Won 2 Lost 1 Lost3 Lost 1 Won 3 Lost 5 Home 30-5 25-9 17-IB 18-15 16-17 15-21 
31-4 27-8 26-7 26-9 25-10 16-17 13-20 
Home 29-5 27-6 26-8 17-18 19-16 16-IB 15-21 
30-5 27-7 25-7 24-11 20-11 16-16 17-16 Away 20-14 13-22 17-17 B-27 5-30 6-2B 
20-13 16-19 14-21 12-23 10-25 6-27 7-29 
Awey 
17-17 
17-17 16-16 B-24 5-27 6-27 3-30 
19-13 23-13 22-15 12-22 12-24 6-28 1-33 Conf 29-13 26-16 23-20 16-25 15-29 12-34 
33-9 28-16 27-18 21-24 22-21 15-26 12-30 
Conf 30-12 26-16 27-17 14-27 20-27 15-33 10-34 
29-13 33-12 26-16 22-25 18-23 21-23 12-29 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball A..oclatlon NBA-Fined Chuck Person, Indiana forward, $2,500 tor twtce kicking balls Into the stands alter being ejected from a game March 23; James Worthy, Los Angeles Lakers forward, $1,500 tor Initiating an Incident In a game March 24; and Sedale Threatt, Seattle guard, $1,000 tor retaliat­Ing agalnst Worthy. 
FOOTBALL National Football LHgua CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed John Rienstra, oHenslve guard. DETROIT LIONS-Signed Sean Vanhorse, cornerback. HOUSTON OILERS-Signed John Hagy, safety. 
MIAMI  DOLPHINS-Signed  Ned  Bolcar,  
linebacker, to a two-year contract.  
SAN  DIEGO  CHARGERS-Signed  Galand  
Thaxton, linebacker.  

TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed Jamie Lawson, fullback. 
COLLEGE AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL-Announced the resignation of Ed Shea, men's soccer coach. ARIZONA STATE-Announced that David Tisdell, linebacker, has felt the football team. PITISBURGH-Named Marty Galbraith tight ends and kickers coach. ROBERT MORRIS-Named Renate Costner women's basketball coach. STONY BROOK-Named Matt Senk baseball 
coach. 
Montreal 3, Hartford 2, OT 
St. Louis 5, Minnesota 4 Tueadlly'a Gamea Late Gamu Not Included 
New Jersey 3, N.Y. Rangers 3, tie Pittsburgh 3, Philadelphia 1 Boston 7, Quebec 4 Chicago 2. Toronto 2, tie Buffalo 4, Washington 2 Vancouver at Calgary, (n) Edmonton at Los Angeles, (n) 
W...._..y'aGamaa ­Pittsburgh at Detroh, 7:35p.m. Hartford a1 New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. 
n.nday'a Game• Quebec at Bullalo, 7:35p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Mlmesota at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
EASTMAN WINNERS 
Selected by the National Auoclatlon o. Baaketbatt Coachea: 1991-Larry Johnson, UNLV 1990-Lionel Simmons, La Salle 1989-Sean Elliott, Arizona 1988 -Danny Manning, Kansas 1987 -David Robinson, Navy 1986-Walter Berry, St. John's 1985-Patrick Ewing, Georgetown 

Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 
~~M. ·s
at the IDI torage
March & April FREE! or 
Depot 
$10 OFF Your May Rent*~~~~-.....,---r-~r---r---1 

*Present valid Notre Dame I.D. for discount 
INotre DameI 
Rent a 5x10 or smaller Rent for 4 months (5/1 to 8/31) 
. I I 
u.s. 
DD
33 

~o~
e ~ 
t!l =s. 
McKinley Hwy. 
n1 on McKinley 
Call 259-<I335 
(ask for Laura) 


Wednesday, March 27, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Oklahoma aims to outhustle Stanford for NIT crown 

NEW YORK (AP) -After playing poorly the second half of the season, the Oklahoma Sooners were so discouraged they almost turned down an invitation to the National Invitation Tournament. Now they're glad they accepted. 
With four straight NIT victories, the Sooners have extended their streak of 20-win seasons to 10 and moved into Wednesday night's championship game against Stanford at Madison Square Garden. 
Not bad for a team that tied for sixth in the Big Eight and lost 11 of 13 games heading into the NIT. 
"The NIT has been great for us," said Oklahoma coach Billy Tubbs. "It's given us a chance to end our season on a pos­itive note." 
When Tubbs led Oklahoma to the NIT semifinals in 1982, it served as a springboard for a highly successful decade. He hopes this year's NIT per­formance will do the same thing for the Sooners (20-14), who advanced to the final by beating Colorado 88-78 Monday night. 
"The final four of the NIT was the starting point for our program 10 years ago. Hopefully, this will get us started on another 10 years of similar basketball at Oklahoma," Tubbs said. 
Like Oklahoma, Stanford had a me­diocre regular season. The Cardinal (19­
13) finished in a five-way tie for fifth in the Pac-1 0 after losing four of its last five games. But the team has rebounded in the NIT with four victories, including a 73-71 semifinal win over Massachusetts. 
"I don't think anybody in their wildest dreams thought we would be in this place at this time," said Stanford coach Mike Montgomery. "This is a tremen­dous boost for our program." 
Stanford's strength is a powerful front line that features 6-foot-9 center Adam Keefe and 6-7 forward Andrew Vlahov. who combined for 44 points and 21 rebounds against Massachusetts. 
Stanford outrebounds its opponents by almost nine per game, the third best margin in the nation. 
"They're a very physical team," Tubbs said. "They're just bigger and stronger than we are." 
Keefe, a two-time, All Pac-1 0 selec­tion, is averaging 21.8 points and 9.5 rebounds per game. 

•
"Adam is a great player," Tubbs said. "He's big and strong, but he's also a good athlete." 
Unlike most Oklahoma teams in the 1980s, this year's squad doesn't have a star like Wayman Tisdale, Stacey King or Mookie Blaylock. But the Sooners do have a balanced scoring attack, with four players averaging double figures and two others averaging 9.7 points per game. Their leading scorer is freshmen forward Jeff Webster, who gets 18.7 points and 5.5 rebounds per game. 
"They've got a lot of quickness and speed," Montgomery said. "It's going to take a great effort for us to keep up with them." 
Montgomery is worried that his team may be tired after a hectic week of travel. Stanford played at Wisconsin and Southern Illinois before coming to New York. 
"Fatigue is definitely a concern, espe­cially with Adam playing 40 minutes the last three games," Montgomery said. ''I'm glad we'll be getting those TV timeouts." 
Stanford hasn't won a postseason title since 1942, when it captured the NCAA championship. Oklahoma has never won an NCAA or NIT title. 
U.S. hockey squad will not include NHLers 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) ­College players and foreign-based pros, not NHL players, will be used on the 1992 U.S. Olympic Hockey team, USA Hockey announced Tuesday. 
Olympic coach Dave Peterson said USA Hockey doesn't expect many, if any, NHL players to be available for the Olympics, but that the pool of college and European-based professionals gives the U.S. "the largest talent pool we've ever had." 
The three-pronged selection process will begin with a preliminary selection camp at Lake Placid, N.Y. on May 22-23. The second stage is the U.S. Olympic Trials camp at St. Cloud, Minn., from June 18-29, followed by a final selection camp, also at St. Cloud, in early July. 
Peterson said about 40 skaters and four goaltenders will be invited to the final selection camp, with about 30 players to comprise a team that will play at an international summer tournament in Mirabel, France -site of the 19.92 Olympic tournament. 
Peterson said that after the group re­turns from France in late August, the roster will be trimmed to 25 players. That team will play a 50-game pre­Olympic schedule that will include at least 15 games against American-based NHL teams, 8-10 games each against the Canadian National Team and Soviet teams and the rest against college and minor-league teams. 
USA Hockey also announced that it will send a Select Team to the Leningrad Pravda Cup, a six-team international tournament for national "B" teams, scheduled for March 31-April 7. The team will be made up of college players supplemented by some Americans who play in Europe. 



• 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
Nets continue success; Charlotte downs Warriors 
EAST RUTHERFORD (AP) -Mookie Blaylock scored six of his 25 points in overtime and Derrick Coleman had 23 points and 13 rebounds as the New Jersey Nets defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 98-95 Tuesday night. 
The victory was the Nets' second straight overtime win at home and their fourth victory in their last five starts at the Meadowlands. 
Charles Barkley had 32 points and 17 rebounds for Philadelphia. 
Hornets 97, Warriors 94 
CHARLOTTE -Charlotte made its biggest comeback in team history, rallying from 20 points down, and Rex Chapman scored eight of his 17 points in the final 2:22 against Golden
.. State . The Warriors, leading 82-62 late in the third period, entered the fourth quarter shooting 
57.9 percent with an 83-70 lead. But Golden State made just four of 19 shots in the final 12 minutes and was outscored 27-11 in the quarter. 
A layup by Chapman pulled the Hornets to 91-90 with 2:22 remaining, and he gave them the lead on a baseline drive with 1:40 to go. After Muggsy Bogues made a free throw, Chapman hit a shot from deep in the right corner to put Charlotte up 95-91 with 32 sec­onds left. 
Pacers 123, Hawks 113 
INDIANAPOLIS -Chuck Person scored 10 of his 24 points in the final 3:48 and Detlef Schrempf had 16 points, a career-high 12 assists and 11 rebounds for Indiana against Atlanta. 
Reggie Miller also scored 24 points for the Pacers, who im­proved their record at home to 25-10. Dominique Wilkins led the Hawks with 34 points, and Kevin Willis scored 21. 
Heat 1 04, Cavaliers 98 
MIAMI -Kevin Edwards scored 28 points and Grant Long hit four key free throws in the final 34 seconds as Miami snapped an eight-game losing streak by defeating Cleveland. 
The Cavaliers, who suffered their first loss in 10 games against the Heat, trailed 99-96 after the Heat's Glen Rice, who scored 21. missed a jumper and the Cavaliers rebounded with 43 seconds to play. 
Spurs 129, Knicks 119 OT 
SAN ANTONIO -Sean Elliott scored a career-high 34 points and made the big plays in over­time, rallying San Antonio past New York. 
Patrick Ewing scored 37 points for the Knicks, who won their first six overtime games this season, but lost to both Dallas and the Spurs in over­time during their 0-3 Texas road trip. 
Suns 117, 'Wolves 95 
PHOENIX -Kevin Johnson scored 16 of his 27 points dur­ing a one-sided first half as Phoenix continued its domina­tion of Minnesota. 
Xavier McDaniel added 22 points while Mark West had 12 points and 13 rebounds for the Suns, now 8-0 against the Timberwolves. 
Sam Mitchell paced Minnesota with 19 points and 11 rebounds. 

King schedules Tyson-Ruddock rematch 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-The world demands a rematch be­tween Mike Tyson and Donovan "Razor" Ruddock, says pro­moter Don King. And he's happy to oblige. 
One thing the world also de­mands, according to co-pro­moter Murad Muhammad, is a different referee. 
"Even the world will not take Richard Steele again," Muhammad said after he and King announced the June 28 rematch Tuesday at the convention of the National Cable Television association. The site again will be The Mirage at Las Vegas. 
Steele's decision to stop the scheduled 12-round fight in the seventh round on March 18 touched off a storm of contro­versy. There was a brawl in the ring, and Steele was kicked be­fore being led away by security guards. 
Both promoters said that the rematch will be bigger finan­cially than the first fight, which they said was a success. It also will be shown on King Vision pay-per-view television. 
"Razor Ruddock will make more in two non-title fights 
showed he went down when he lost his balance, and was knocked down again in the third before rallying to stagger Tyson late in the sixth. 
Tyson landed a series of head shots that staggered Ruddock in the seventh round and sent him backward. Steele suddenly turned his back on him and mo­tioned that the match was over. 
"What?" asked Ruddock when he realized what Steele had done. 
"There are two schools of though about stopping the fight," King said. I'm of the school that thinks he did the right thing." 
Tyson talked about a rematch 
immediately after the fight. 
"Tyson said, 'It didn't count, because he ain't dead,' " King said. "Many people thought the fight was prematurely stopped. It ensued with a lot of activity in the ring." 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Design Editor 
For further information, contact Jay Colucci, 283-4335 or 239-7471 

fighting Tyson," Muhammad r
than Michael Spinks made~===============~=~~=~~~~ 
said. Spinks got $13 million for his first-round knockout loss to Tyson in 1988 when Tyson was undisputed heavyweight cham­pion. 
Ruddock was down in the sec­ond round, although tape 
Rocket 
continued from page 20 
Lions paid the former Boston College star and NFL player $150,000, but he received sev­eral times that amount to do unspecified promotional work for Lions owner Murray Pezim. 
McNall, who has had incredi­ble success as a rare coins dealer, a movie producer, a thoroughbred horse racing owner and as savior of the NHL's Kings, could also hire Ismail through one of his other enterprises to make up the rest of a hefty salary package. 
"We will pursue, fairly ac­tively, bringing him to Canada," McNall said of Ismail last week. "I understand he would fit in nicely to the style of play in Canada." 

/ Private Parties Banquet Room 
2810 PRAIRIE AVE 
BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FREE DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & NO 
SPECIAL  
LARGE 18" PIZZA  $12,00  TWOnEMUMn  
SMALL 12" PIZZA  $ 5.50  TWOITEMUMIT  
OFFER EXPIRES 6 • 28 .1991  




,......... ­

. , . " 
, , • 1 f .f t r:-... I ';,. \

I . -I \ : I• -\ •• ' ~ c ~ I .. .: ' 
Wednesday, March 27, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Cactus and Grapefruit Leagues in full spring swing 
Dunedin, Fla. (AP) -The Toronto Blue Jays ended a spring training slump Tuesday, beating the Texas Rangers 6-2 on a combined five-hitter for only their second victory in 11 games. 
Pat Tabler hit a three-run homer in the second inning for Toronto. Todd Stottlemyre (3-1) allowed two runs and four hits in five innings, and Ken Dayley, Mike Timlin and Duane Ward shut out Texas with four innings of one-hit relief. 
Bobby Witt (1-2) gave gave up five runs and five hil'i in four innings. 
Orioles 9, Phlllies 9, tie 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Dwight Evans hit a two-run homer, his first for Baltimore, and Dave LaPoint was pounded for five runs in four innings. 
With Baltimote leading 6-2, Darren Daulton hit an RBI double in the sixth and Philadelphia rallied with six runs in the seventh. Von Hayes and Dale Murphy walked with the bases loaded, Kruk hit a three-run double and Charlie Hayes added an RBI single. 
Baltimore tied in the eighth on singles by Dave Segui and Joe Orsulak and Guillermo Hernandez's run-scoring wild pitch. 
Red Sox 6, Reds 3 
PLANT CITY, Fla. -Mike Marshall went 4-for-4 and Mo Vaughn hit a two­run homer ofT Jose Rijo. 
Matt Young ( 1-1) allowed three runs and five hits in five innings, including Bill Doran's solo homer. 
Third baseman Wade Boggs didn't accompany the Red Sox from Winter Haven. Boggs incurred minor injuries when he fell out of a moving pickup truck Saturday night. 
Pirates 7, White Sox 6 
BRADENTON, Fla.-Bobby Bonilla hit a two-run double and Jay Bell had a two-run triple as Pittsburgh survived four hits by ex-Pirate John Cangelosi. 
Zane Smith pitched 5 2-3 innings for the victory despite a pair of throwing errors. Vicente Palacios, shaky so far this spring with a 5.63 ERA in five previous outings, followed with 2 1-3 innings of scoreless, one-hit relief. · Steve Lyons hit a two-run homer in the ninth before Stan Belinda got the final three outs. 
Yankees 9, Dodgers 6 
VERO BEACH, Fla. -Torrey Lovullo had three hits, scored twice, and drove in two runs. 
The Yankees had 15 hits as they raised their exhibition record to 16-5 with their fifth straight victory. 
Ten of New York's 15 hits went for extra bases, including solo home runs by Lovullo and Steve Balboni, giving the Yankees six home runs in two days. Steve Sax and Matt Nokes had three hits each for the Yankees including two doubles each. 
Mets 3, Twins 2 
FORT MYERS, Fla. -Mackey Sasser singled home the go-ahead run with two outs in the lOth inning. Darren Reed, trying to an outfielder spot. with the Mets, went 4-for-4. 
Wally Whitehurst, New York's fifth starter while Sid Fernandez is sidelined, gave up five hits and two runs in five innings. Alan Anderson started for Minnesota and gave up two runs and six hits in six innings. Sasser's hit game ofT Gary Wayne (3-1). 
Braves 3, Astros 2 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -John Smoltz gave up three hits and two runs in six innings, and Mike Heath drove in two runs. 
Houston starter Bob Sebra was ineffective, allowing two hits and a run in 2 1-3 innings. Don Carman, who will work out of the bullpen for the Astros, followed Sebra and gave up two hits and two runs in 2 1-3 innings. Carman also made two errors. 
Tigers 3, Royals 0 
HAINES CITY, Fla. -Bill Gullickson pitched six shutout innings and Lou Whitaker homered. 
Whitaker's first-inning home run was the only run allowed by loser Mark 


Your typical dot matrixprinter. The newApple StyleWriter. 
Whichpricelooksbettertoyou? 

Lets face it.The more im­pre&<iive your papers and projects look, the more im­pactyour ideaswill have. 
Which is whyyou mightwant to know about the newApple8 StyleWriter8 printer. It gives you 
crisp,laser-qualityprinting for aboutwhatyou'd built into it. Not just the power to look expect to pay for adot matrix printer. your best. The power to be your bese 
NOTUEDAME COMPUTEU STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 

©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, StyleWriter and ''Jbepower to be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
Its compact (at just 13"xS"x s:· it fits easily in the mostcrampeddonn room). Its quiet (so quiet you can print at 3a.m.withoutwaking up your roommate). 
AnditsfromApple, designedto get everything outofaMacintosllcomputerthatApple 
Gubicza (1-1), who pitched three innings in his second appearance. Keith Kimberlin hit a two-out, RBI double in the fourth and Steve Crawford 
threw a  run-scoring wild pitch in the  
seventh.  
Angels 16, Cubs 4  

PALM SPRINGS, Calif. -Junior Felix homered, doubled, singled twice and drove in six runs. 
Lance Parrish went 4-for-4, lifting his average to .350, and Wally Joyner doubled twice. The Angels scored in every inning and surpassed the 20-hit barrier for the second time in a week. 
Mark Langston (3-0) got the victory while becoming the first Angel pitcher to pitch six innings this spring. 
Giants 5, Padres 1 
YUMA, Ariz. -Matt Williams hit a three-run homer and Kevin Mitchell added a two-run homer for San Francisco. 
Left-hander Bud Black started for the Giants and allowed six hits and one run in five innings. Trevor Wilson pitched 2 2-3 hitless innings and Jose Segura and Jeff Brantley finished. 
Williams left the game after three innings with a sore neck. Giants manager Roger Craig said it was only a precaution because the weather was cool. 
Tickets 
continued from page 20 
Those with tickets are being advised to be prepared for extra security because of the possibility of terrorism in response to the Persian Gulf War. 
Spectators will be prohibited from bringing emergency pagers, cameras, video recorders, televisions, radios, coolers, bottles, cans and other containers. Purses and bags must be opened for inspection and hand-held metal detectors will also be used to check spectators as they enter the Hoosier Dome. 
Officials will open the gates three hours before the start of Friday's public practice sessions. Saturday's opening semifinal game and Monday night's championship contest to allow fans to pass through the extra security and reach their seats in time for the games. 
"We know that some of the security procedures may cause a little hard feelings," said Bill Hancock, director of the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championships. "Some people might even be angry. But if we don't do it someone might get hurt. We'll take anger over injury any day." 
Visitors will also find it hard, if not impossible, to get a hotel room. The Indianapolis Convention and Visitors Association reports that the city's 15,500 hotel rooms were all reserved as of Jan. 25. 
A special housing bureau set up for the Final Four has been recommending hotels in nearby cities. A few rooms were available in Kokomo, about 50 miles north of the city, and Bloomington, about 50 miles south. 
Purdue 
continued from page 20 
game in perspective. 
"We'll go down there and we'll play well," said Murphy. "We won't be at full strength, but that's part of the road trips and part of the long baseball season." 
National rankings are another distraction for the Irish. Currently, the 

-...
Irish are 25th in the Baseball Amorica's poll, and questions about post-season play keep plaguing the Irish. 
"Everybody's worried about the national picture," said Murphy. "Everybody's calling us and asking us if we'll go to the World Series. You have to block it out, you have to have fun playing the game, and play with enthusiasm and positive attitude." 
That is the attitude the Irish will take to Purdue. 


... 
page 18 
weanesoay, Marcn 2/, 1W1
The Observer 

Johnson takes player of the year 
LAS VEGAS {AP) -Senior forward Larry Johnson of UNLV was named winner of the Eastman Award as college bas­ketball's top player Tuesday. 
Johnson is the 17th winner of the award, voted on annually by the National Association of Basketball Coaches. Last year's winner was Lionel Simmons of La Salle. 
A junior college transfer, Johnson helped UNLV to its first national championship last year when he averaged 20.6 points, 
11.4 rebounds and 2.1 assists per game. This year, the undefeated Runnin' Rebels are bidding for a second straight title with Johnson averaging 23 points and 10.8 rebounds and 3 assists per game. 
"The award is not accepted by me, it's accepted by my coaches, my family and most important my teammates," Johnson said. 
"It's not just me getting the award, it's the whole team." 
"That's the way we look at it. It's one of the reasons we've been so successful." 
UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian praised Johnson. 
"Nobody in this room knows how unselfish this guy is," Tarkanian said. "He absolutely doesn't know how many points he had after the game. The only concern with Larry is whether we win or lose." 
"In two years he hasn't com­plained once about not getting the ball. Sometimes he goes 7-8 minutes without getting the ball. I'm the one who gets mad, not him. I yell, 'get him the 
ball.~ 
"He's probably the nicest guy I've met in athletics," Tarkanian said. 
Johnson and Steve Smith of Michigan State were the only seniors on the NABC Division I All-America team, also an­nounced Monday. Joining them were junior Billy Owens of Syracuse and sophomores Shaquille O'Neal of LSU and Kenny Anderson of Georgia Tech. All were finalists for the Eastman Award. 
Picked for the NABC's Division II All-America team were Corey Crowder of Kentucky Wesleyan; Dave Vonesh of North Dakota; Armando Becker of Central Missouri State; Lambert Shgell of Bridgeport; and Myron Brown of Slippery Rock. 
On the DiVision III team were Brad Baldridge of Wittenberg; Andre Foreman of Salisbury State; Chris Fite of Rochester; Lamont Strothers of Christopher Newport; and James Bradley of Otterbein. 
Johnson again; Pitino top coach 
ST. LOUIS -Kentucky's Rich Pitino was named coach of the year, while Larry Johnson was selected as the college basketball player of the year Tuesday by The Sporting News. 
It was the second time Pitino has received the Sporting News honor. He was selected five years ago when he coached Providence into the Final Four. 
This season, Kentucky had a 22-6 record but was prohibited from playing in a postseason tournament because the school is on probation for recruiting violations. 

Jackson vows to return to sporting life in three network television appearances 
NEW YORK {AP) -Bo Jackson vowed today to over­come what he called a serious hip injury and again play both baseball and football. 
Jackson went on a television blitz, appearing on the morning shows of all three major net­works within an hour, to criti­cize doctors who had predicted his playing days were over. 
"Not if, but when I come back, they will be sticking out there with their feet in their mouth," Jackson said during his ap­pearance on NBC-TV's Today Show. 
"No one knows me better than me or my personal doctor, Dr.{James) Andrews out of Birmingham." 
Jackson expressed annoyance at those who speculated pub­licly that a hip condition which developed from the injury would not permit him to play again. 
"They have nothing else to do with their time, or they're get­ting their own publicity," he said. 
"They should be trying to fmd the cure for the common cold and not be speculating on me. 
"They're trying to get their names in the paper." 
Jackson conceded during his NBC appearance that the hip injury suffered while playing for the Oakland Raiders in a postseason NFL playoff game on Jan. 13 was serious, but he said, "There have been players who had the same injury and in six or seven months, they were playing again." 
Jackson said the examination given him by the Kansas City Royals before they put him on waivers last week was cursory, and that Andrews' opinion that he would play again was based on a more thorough examina­tion and consultations with other doctors. 
"If he says I will be back on the field playing, I have confi­dence in him and his profession that I will be back on the field playing," Jackson said during his appearance on ABC-TV's Good Morning America. 
Jackson also said he wanted to continue playing both foot­ball and baseball despite warn­ings that his careers in both could be shortened by pursuing the two sports. 

him on waivers, "They were bitter, and they have been bitter about me playing two sports, and the salary -they thought it was the best business deal at the time." 
The Royals, by releasing Jackson, hoped to cut their $2,375,000 million salary obli­gation this-year to just $400,000. 
Jackson, interviewed in Kansas City, said rather than being angry that every team let 
him clear waivers, he was happy because he was now asOf limiting himself to just one free agent. 
sport, Jackson said during his "I was hoping it would happen 
appearance on CBS's This 
so I could chose the team I
Morning, "If I did that I would want to play for," he said. 
be living someone else's life. 
Of the New York Yankees ap­"I want to do what I have been parently changing their mindsdoing for the past four years about claiming him, Jacksonwhen I heal and get well." 
said, "Who takes the YankeesJackson said there were two 
or George Steinbrenner seri­
motives for the Royals' putting ously these days?" 
SPORTS SHORTS 


SPORTS BRIEFS 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Scorekeepers 
are needed for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Anyone who is interested should contact Shelley Guilbaut at 283-2549. 

•An 
Tostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Thursday and Friday April 4th and 5th from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. office. For more information call Lou at 283-2071. Minimum two women per team. Entry charge is $5 per team. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 on Tuesday in the Boathouse. There will be information about practice, regattas, and lessons. Practice will be at 2:30 Tuesday and Wednesday this week. 

•Attention 
crew members: A very important meeting will be held Wednesday, April3 at 7:30pm in 127 Nieuwland. Be there. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have late sign-ups on Wednesday, March 27, 1991 from 6:30-8:30 pm in the S.U.B. office in La Fortune. Absolute final sign-ups must be in by Wednesday, April3, by calling 283-1093. 

•The 
Notre Dame softball team's doubleheader at Ball State was rained out. It has been rescheduled for Thursday at 2pm. 


NOW LEASING: 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDED: 
-WASHER AND DRYER 
-SECURITY SYSTEM 
-DISHWASHER 
-CENTRAL AIR 
-PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 




ednesday, March 27, 1991 The Observer page 19 
.........................................................................................................................., 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Film, "The 400 Blows." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
7 -9 p.m. Film Festival, "The Mission", A part of the SEA Pre-Cycling Campaign. Room 184, Nieuwland. Sponsonld by Students for Environmental Action. 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's Women Choir Homecoming Concert. Nancy Menk, Director. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by music department, Saint Marv's College. 
8:15 p.m. Spring Concert. Washington Hall. Sponsored by music department. 
9 p.m. Film, "Chicago Maternity Center Story." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
Thursday 
11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. Hospitality Lunch to benefit El Campito. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. > 12:0~ p.m. Travel Videos at Noon Series, "National 
I arks. ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Education Sponsored by Educational Media. · 
LECTURES 
3 p.m. Recent Advances in Stochastic Dynamics -A Lecture Series: "Stochastic Wave Propagation: Existing Methods & New Results," Dr. Kazimierz Sobczyk, Institute of Fundamental Technological Research Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw. Poland. Room 107A, Cushing Hall. Sponsored by civil engineerinl!. 
4 p.m. Colloquium: "Symmetries/Supersymmetries in Nuclear Physics," Dr.. J .A. Cizewski, Rutgers University. Hoom 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by physics department.
4 p.m. Lecture: "Aphrodite and Alcohol: Myths, Mistakes, and Truths about Sexuality and Alcohol," Mary Cedlia Hoerner, Omni Center for Women's Health. Notre Dame Hoom, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Year of Women and the Office for Alcohol and Drug Education. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Male Perspectives of Gender Equality and Changing Male Roles," Gender studies student presentation. Room 116, O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by gender studies. 
7 p.m. Lecture: "The Future of a Liberal Arts Degree in the Job Market," by Wayne Wallace of IU, Bloomington. In the Library Auditorium. Sponsored by anthropology de­partment. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'tl\\0, S\JS\e 
'iQJ Wt.R\:.1{\ 
ThL"-It{G 10 
S\JSIE., WtR£. 
'(ov ;> 
S\.1£. illAR\.'i 
~~·, 
TR\JST '(O\l AT Al.l. 
"Well, It's a delicate situation, sir .... Sophisticated firing system, hair-trigger mechanisms, and Bob's wife just left him last night, so you know his mind's nat Into this." 

• 
: THE ANTOSTAL MUD VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY! ! 
: C\t&To_, 
: SIGN-UPS: : ,,,, ~ : Thursday and Friday, April 4th and Stt~ ,. IJ!r/~r 
: S.U.B. Office 4-6 P.M.! 5 dollars per team 
: 
• Hurry!!! There•s a 64 team maH.
•: 
• Each team must have two wanen and is
•
•• limited to one varsity or club player. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 33 Sundance Kid's girl
1 Soviet news 37 Hurrah for the ­agency matador!
5--Jones 
average 38 Sousa specialty 8 Outpouring 
39 Napoleon13 Astronaut Bean 
Solo's show 14 Old English 
43 Capital of letters Vietnam16 Small drum 44 Mrs., in Madrid
17 Frequent letterhead 
45 Stadium section feature 
46 Not alfresco 18 Secular 48Jumble
19 Contest site 20 Brandon 50 Bee follower Thomas farce 
51 Mushy stuff 23 Least dotty 
53 Precisely24 Refrain syllable 25 Mrs., in 
58 Louisa May Montreux 
Alcott novel 28 Use the phone 61 Natives of 30 Iterate Belgrade 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Hallucinogenic monogram 22 Middle East initials: 1958-71 .:_:..j.:::.j.;:;:,+:-1 25 Word before beaucoup 26 Flat diamond 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fried Steak Spaghetti & Meatballs Cheese Enchiladas 
Baked New Zealand Whiting 
GARY LARSON 
~£RD HORROPk 
.r,_ • ...,~
'9.•· fl 
.. 
&4 "If--My Way," 1913 
song 65 Sachs of Nurnberg 
66 Piano part &7 Wine: Comb. form &8 City SW of 
Buffalo 69 Oise tributary 70 Japanese epic 
film 71 Impudence 
DOWN 
1 Bath powders 2 Oahu welcome 3 "A Certain 
Smile" author 4Sieeper's 
rumble 5 Outtake 6 Pop singer 
Anita-­
7 "Arrangement in Gray and Black No.1" 
8 Musial of baseball 9 Component 
10 Honest one 11 Coal quantity 12 Notable period 
•
1991. NAZZ 
1 : 
sat. April 22 1991 : 7:00-1:00 ! Stepan Center • Info. Meeting WED. MARCH 27, 1991 
7:00 pm 
SUB office 2nd Floor LaFortune At least ONE Band Member .mliD be present 

• 

) 
27 An anesthetic 42 Extinct mammal 57 Road curves 
29TVcomedy 47 Quiche 58 Novelist Hunter series ingredient 31 Cassowary's 49 Old French coin 59 lnnisfree, e.g. 60 New Testament 
cousin 52 Lima's state miracle site 32 Puff 54 Phoenix source 
33 Complex of 61 Watering spot 
55 Coronetprecepts 62 Pacific garland 56 Seat of County 34 Title for Clare 63 Commercials
Macbeth 35 Nervous 36 Mine, in France Answers to any three clues in this 40 Support puzzle are available by touch-tone 41 Bauxite or phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
pitchblende minute). 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Meat Loaf Turkey Broccoli Divan Western Cheese Souffie Deli Bar 
JAY HOSLER 

Commissioner Applications can be picked up at 2nd 
Floor Secretary's desk in Lafortune. Deadline is 
Friday, April 5. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

......................................................................................................................... 

Sports 

page 20 Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
Irish baseball collides with Boilermakers on road 

Rocket could make run to the border for big CFL deal 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Raghib "It would be a hell of a coup Patriots are going to do with "Rocket" Ismail, expected to be for us to sign him," McCarthy . the pick. They could trade it to the first player taken in next said. "He would be a huge draw any number of teams, and then 
month's NFL draft. is and whatever money Mr. you're dealing with other peo­considering a $6 million, two­MeNall would spend on him, ple. We cannot make any year offer to play for the I'm sure it would easily be re­moves until we find out what 
Toronto Argonauts of the couped in two years' time with they're going to do." Canadian Football League, his the kind of impact a guy like McCarthy said McNall and his agent confirmed Tuesday. Ismail would have on the partners -Wayne Gretzky of 
Ed Abram, agent for the league. the Kings and comedian John Heisman Trophy runner-up "He isn't a franchise player; Candy -wouldn't be talking from Notre Dame, has been ne­he's a league player. He'd help about such large amounts of gotiating with the New England the whole CFL." money for Ismail unless the Patriots, who have the first Ismail, an All-American re­deal would be mutally draft pick. Abram said the offer turn specialist and flanker, will beneficial to the club and the from Toronto appears to be pass up his final year of college athlete. genuine. eligibility to turn pro. The prospective salary of $3 
"If Toronto puts together a Abram said the offer was million a year is actually the package that's hard to refuse, made to Ismail by McNall. annual ceiling figure for an en­we have to take a serious look "There's something to it. I tire CFL roster. Clubs surpass­
at it," Abram said from have had conversations with ing that amount are supposed Oakland, Calif. "If it comes be­Toronto, and they seem to be to be fined. fore the draft, it's before the pretty serious," Abram said. But a cap on wages can be draft. If it's after the draft, it's He said he has talked with circumvented easily and legally after the draft. We have no Ismail about it, but right now if, for example, McNall signs control over those things." the main focus still is with New Ismail to a personal services Argonauts owner Bruce England. contract in an arrangeme MeNall said the offer was "in "We're in negotiations with similar to that of B.C. the $3 million-a-year range. the Patriots, and we wouldn't quarterback Doug Flutie. Th Let's see if he finds that attrac­care to upset the apple cart Lions paid the former B tive." Argo general manager there. But as good, practical College star and NFL play Mike McCarthy, who is negoti­business people, you have to $150,000, but he received ating with Abram, wouldn't say look at all options, and one of era! times that amount to 
how close the two sides are but those options is now coming unspecified promotional did confirm that "big dollars" from Toronto," Abram said. are being discussed. "We don't know what the see ROCKET/ page 1 
them," said Murphy. 

By JENNIFER MARTEN 
The Irish will not be at full

Sports Writer 
strength for this game with several players staying here for

The Notre Dame baseball 
academic reasons. Missing

team's 30-game road trip 
players should not affect the

continues with a swing to 
Irish game plan as the team

Purdue today. The game in 
plans to do what they do best:

West Lafayette represents the play baseball. 
first time the Irish (13-7) play 
"We know we have a good

in Indiana. 
club," said Murphy. "What

Freshman Tom Price, 2-1 
we've got to do is block out

with a 2.78 ERA, will start on distractions."
the mound for the Irish. The 
One of the distractions

left-bander has notched wins 
Murphy is referring to is the 

{ against Nebraska and Trinity 
Oscar Mayer Classic in

already this season. 
Minneapolis this weekend. The

Overall, the Irish are 36-26 
tournament is one of the

against the Boilermakers, but 
biggest in college baseball, and

the team has been ineffective 
the Irish will face Minnesota,

against Big Ten teams this year 
Stanford, and UCLA in the

with losses to Ohio State and Metrodome.
Michigan. 
For Murphy and his Irish, the 

Notre Dame coach Pat 
tournament overshadows the

Murphy is cautious about 
contest with Purdue. However,

Purdue. "Purdue's always a 
the team will keep today's

good club; they are a Big Ten 
club. It's been just recently that 
we've had great success over 
Lacrosse hopes to turn season around 
By RENE FERRAN while sophomore Brian Mayglothing has added eight.
Associate Sports Editor 
However, their top five scorers account for 80 percent of their 

The Notre Dame lacrosse 
goals, a cause for concern toteam (2-3) tries to break a two­Sennett.

game losing streak this 
"We have to start comingafternoon at 3:30 p.m. against together as a team. We've hadthe Air Force Academy (1-1). 

some good individual

The Irish come into today's 
performances, but we need

match in similar fashion as they 
more balance as a team,"did before last year's game 

Sennett said. "We need to putagainst the Falcons. And just 

pressure on our opponents

like last season, Notre Dame rather than on those (five) inhopes the results are the same. 
order to win." 

Last year, after struggling early 
A 
Starting with today, Notre

in the game, the Irish came 
Mike Sennett 
Dame enters a favorable stretch from six goals down to pull out 

of its season. Irish hopes of

a 12-11 win from Air Force at Sennett anticipates Air Force the San Diego State to employ a physical style of returning to the NCAA 
Tournament. play against the Irish. tournament may hinge on their taking advantage of this soft
"That was the best game I "It's always a good game. 
spot in their schedule. 

ever played. in," said senior co­They never give up, and they're captain Mike Sennett. "It really very well-disciplined," he said. "These. are very important 
games coming up," Sennett

set the tone for the rest of the "We have to play a solid game 
said. "For a tourney bid, it's

season. It taught us how to win, to beat them." 
to come back. Notre Dame has had between us, Air Force, "We've had a few bad losses problems scoring in its first five Michigan State and Ohio State. to some good teams lately, but games. Junior Mike Sullivan We need to turn the season this is a winnable game for us." leads the Irish with 11 goals, around right now and get back 
on the right track." 


Final Four tix available Typical $2000 price tag in Indy 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) "thousands" of tickets avail-Basketball fans can still buy able. tickets to the Final Four. All it "We mainly get them from takes is a lot of cash because people who get to buy tickets sca.lping . is legal in through the NCAA lottery and Indianapoh~. . . then decide they won't come," 
Tuesday s edltwns of the he said. "We've done this for Indianapolis newspapers had several years. This year it's a more than 300 ads in the clas-lot more fun because there are sified section, mostly offering a lot more tickets available. tickets for prices ranging from There were very few tickets $100 to $2,000 each. available last year in Denver." 
Ticket agencies had the The elimination of Indiana largest ads and reported a and Ohio State from the tour­brisk business. nament did not cause a major 
"We have four phone lines decline in ·ticket demand going constantly," said Dave Brusslan said. ' Brusslan, president of "The only effect it had was Pre_ferred Tickets and Tours, to lower the price we paid for ~hich had the_ largest adver-tickets. Some people held their ~Isement -~ !nches ~y 2 1/2 tickets too long and it cost m the classified sectiOn and them money," he said. "But the another 3-by-4 1/4 inch ad in demand is pretty good. And the sports section. having two teams from North 
"We're selling tickets from like Indiana." $200 to $2,500 each," said 

see TICKETS/ page 17
Brusslan. He estimated he had 




