
. 
VOL. XXIII NO. 90 MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 1991 
I 
.THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S : 

I>IIAIIHAN. Saudi Arabia (AP) -As allied pilots bombed Iraqi troops and their supply lines Sunday, a senior American military official said the U.S.­led forees could use another thrne to four weeks to prepare for a ground offensive. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney, meanwhile, said the next phase of the Persian Gulf War would probably combine air power with both ground and amphibious combat. But he would not say how soon it might begin. 
In Iraq, President Saddam Hussein made his first nation­wide broadcast to his people since thme days after the war:. began. 
Speaking on Baghdad radio, he congratulated them for. withstanding the attacks by the allied "warplanes of shame." lie told them their valor was inspiring the hundreds of thou­sands of Iraqi soldiers at the front. 
"I heard what Saddam Hus­sein said and I didn't hear him say anything about him getting out of Kuwait," President Bush 
Violence erupts in South Africa 
.IOIIANNESBUHG, South Africa (AI') -Hival black ac­tivists fought with spears. knives an& guns in a township whme anti-apartheid leaders rallied for peace last week, po­lien said Sunday. 
At least one man supporting tlw lnkatha Frendom Party was killed in clashes with backers of the African National Congress in Bekkersdal township, outside .Johannesburg. 
On Thursday. leaders of the ANC, Inkatha and the militant Pan Afrieanist Congress and Azanian People's Organization gatlwrnd to urge an end to the violm1ce in Bekkersdal. where at least 14 pl~ople have died in unrest in the past two weeks. 
Police said two people were killtld Sunday in Natal province, where the ANC and lnkatha ap­prowd a cease-fire last month. Thn report gave no other de­tails. 
Supportl~rs of the ANC and Inkatha have battled in black townships for years, leaving thousands of people dead. 
ANC leader Nelson Mandela and lnkatha chief Mangosuthu Buthelnzi ended decades of es­trangmnent on Jan. 29 and met in an effort to persuade their followt!rs to stop fighting. They approved a resolution calling for an immediate halt to the vi­olfmct!. 
Some of the violence in Bekkersdal has pitted the ANC against the Azanian People's Organization, or AZAPO. The township traditionally has been an AZAPO stronghold. 
Bombing raids continue; 
GULF WAR ROUNDUP sunday, Feb. 10 
Cheney, Powell visit While flying back to Washington, Diplomatic front

U.S. ponders ground war 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told •Iraq rejected 
reporters the air campaign had reduced the two new peace
planes flew 2,800 missions 
fighting power of some Iraqi divisions by plans by Iran and the
Sunday, concentrating on He­
as much as non-alingned movement.
publican Guard troops on the lraqi-Kuwaiti border and the 
40 percent.....•. ·····.···r..u·R·K-E..Y···· ·-•.:...• __ ,....._,_. •A Soviet envoy traveled to 
. Y Baghdad for talks with
bridges, highways and railways used to supply them. 
~:--~;;i;--··r:" ~~·/:.S .. ,
The fierce action in the air, 
LEBANON ,/lf~_./···r
and sporadic exchanges of ar­
ISRAEL __,.1 · .. ··­
tillery along the Saudi border, .. -h. f"'-1 \ 
_.-; ,·· -·.JORDAN
came as Cheney headed back to 
OPERATION 
Washington to brief President 


I ,,
DESERT STORM Bush on the progress of the 25­day-old war. He told reporters flying home I ~ Allied air war 
with him that the air campaign • · •U.S. and British pilots bombed Iraqi troops and their had reduced the fighting power supply lines Sunday. ~ 
• 
Saddam on radio I page 8 

• 
NDSEA's stand I page 8 



I
of some Iraqi divisions by as 1 • The U.S. lost their first warplane
• Cheney on future I page 9 

much as 40 percent. I in more than aweek. AMarine Corp ·-. 
• Kuwait's relief plan I page 9 Although Cheney did not say \ Av-8 Harrier was downed over soulhern · 
when a ground and amphibious ' Kuwait on Saturday. The pilot is missing. said in Washington. "Of course, assault might begin, a senior Iraqi Prisoners that's what the whole world is American military official said RBI/ • 75 more Iraqi soldiers wanting to hear." some U.S. forces just arrived in S1a crossed into Saudi Arabia and 0 Riyadh
In the air campaign, the Saudi Arabia and they need 
\\ surrendered to the Allied forces. SAUDI ARABIA
Americans lost their first war­three or four more weeks to plane in combat in more than a prepare. week. A Marine Corps AV-8 As of 3p.m EST AP Harrier was downed over "The guys just off the boat, southern Kuwait on Saturday, they could use some more recently arrived from Europe. Iraq said it would welcome a and the pilot was missing, the time," the official told The As­Such forces have the ground assault by the allies, 
U.S. command said. sociated Press in Riyadh on specialized M-1 tanks designed 
see IRAQ I page 5
Taking advantage of improv­condition of anonymity. He was to take on Iraq's Soviet-made T­ing weather, American war-referring to the ground units 72 tanks. 

Israel welcomes Lebanese army, warn it to stop P·LO 



MARJAYOUN, Lebanon {AP) -Israel on Sunday warned it will continue to hammer Pales­tinian guerrillas in south Le­banon if the newly deployed Le­banese Army fails to curb at­tacks against Israel or its Le­banese allies. 
"We cannot allow the Lebanese Army to be an umbrella for terror activities," said Maj. Gen. Yossi Peled, commander of Israel's northern forces. 
In a meeting with foreign re­porters, Peled gave Israel's first assessment of the Beirut government's move to extend its control to the south, a law­less arena of Israeli-Palestinian battles and Lebanese factional­ism. 
South Lebanon, riven by pro­and anti-Iraqi factions, briefly became a sub-theater of the Gulf War, as Palestinians sup­porting Saddam Hussein tried to open a "second front" against Israel, which also was under attack from Iraqi ballistic missiles. 
The dispatch of the Lebanese Army came partly to quell the trouble before it escalated out of control. 
"So far, the beginning seems to be okay," said Peled. "The test will be if it is able to pre­vent terror activity. We have no interest to find ourselves in a conflict with the Lebanese Army," he said. 
Peled and Gen. Antoine La­had, chief of the Israeli-spon­
sored South Lebanon Army,
AP Photo

Devastation 

said they welcomed the 1,600 soldiers dispatched by the cen­
Residents view the damage caused by the 11th Iraqi-launched 
tral Lebanese government last
Scud missile on the Tel Aviv area Saturday. 

week, and were surprised at its trouble-free deployment. 
"As to the future, we have to wait and see. For the time be­ing. everything is fine," said Lahad, speaking to reporters at a joint command headquarters along with Peled. 
Lahad said he had no direct contact with the Lebanese Army, but "there are under-the­table contacts" by third parties. 
Lahad and Peled said they would not yield control over the self-declared Israeli security belt adjacent to the border, where Israel has stationed about 1,000 troops to support the 2,500 men of Lahad's mili­tia. 
The Lebanese Army has been mandated to move into all ar­eas of the country to reassert the Beirut goverhment's control and disarm the dozens of war­ring militias and faetions. 
But until now it has stayed out of the cauldron of south Lebanon, a jigsaw of zones con­trolled by the PLO, the Amal Shiite militia, the pro-Iranian Hezbollah militia, various communist factions and Israel. 
Gunners of Yasser Arafat's Fatah wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization fired about 60 short-ranged Katyusha rockets toward Israel in a show of solidarity with Iraq. 
Israel retaliated fiercely for barrages of Katyusha rockets, with five days of air strikes and heavy artillery barrages capped last Thursday by a combined air and ground raid against a command post and training center in eastern Lebanon. 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Administration uses Observer to police group 
The administration strikes again. 
They have involved The Observer in their ongoing quest to forget the existence of the group known as Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame Alison Cocks and Saint Mary's. Editor-in-Chief 
Specifically, they object to certain aspects of the group's ad campaign: the use of copyrighted symbols such as the Dome and any language which implies they are an organized, recognized group. The group's name is also cause for consternation, as it suggests a closer tie to the University than the administration deems comfortable. 
Notre Dame chooses not to recognize a homosexual organization. Therefore, the Office of Student Affairs informed me, they do not want to see ads in the student newspaper which might imply to 'outsiders' that this group is affiliated with the University. They haven't forbidden the group to advertise in The Observer, but the aforementioned aspects of their ads are now taboo. 
Instead of explaining this to the group, however, they called me. I was told that, ef­fective immediately, ads which do not con­form to their guidelines are like alcohol ads: forbidden. 
No one called the students whose names appeared on the ads and explained the Uni­versity's position to them. I, as the editor-in­chief of The Observer, was chosen to police the group. The Observer is the organization which will be penalized if the ads appear. 
Administrators will not stand over me every night to keep me from running the ads. But The Observer occupies office space in a convenient, rent-free location. The adminis­tration undoubtedly realizes we aren't going to give it up over this issue. We aren't losing money, and we haven't been slapped on the wrist and told we can't run the group's ads at all. 
It irks me that they used our position to oontrol another group, though. It may be easier for the University to come directly to The Observer in order to regulate GLND/SMC, but it also shows disrespect for them. There's a lot of that going around lately. 
The Office of Student Affairs may decline to talk to unrecognized student groups, but there is no reason why they cannot telephone the three individuals who listed their names and numbers on the ads and treat them like they are capable of being responsible for their ads. 
Instead, I had to tell them. I spoke with an intelligent, reasonable representative of the group. As we talked, I wondered why the University couldn't treat him like an adult instead of a recalcitrant two-year-old. 
Someone forgot that the group is composed of people, and thought if the police work was delegated to someone else, the problem will take care of itself. Leave it to Notre Dame to take the cowardly approach. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471
Today's Staff: Graphics
Production 

Pat Midden News Michelle Wood 
Paul Pearson Jacquie Calhoun 
Photography Frank Rivera 
Sean Farnan Systems Accent Amalia Meier 
Business Mike Whitman Fritz Vaisaint 
Rich Riley Shonda Wilson Viewpoint 
Circulation Sports DaveCerto 
Bill O'Roukrke Ken Tysiac Jay Colucci 
Matt Novak 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Soviets could play Gulf peacebroker 
•WASHINGTON, D.C. ­
The Soviet Union, promised a ­postwar role in the Middle East by a long-reluctant United States, is trying a new diplomatic approach to Baghdad and could emerge later as a key peacebroker in the troubled region. Although the Soviets refused 

to send troops to help oust Iraq from 
Kuwait, the Kremlin supported the U.N. resolutions aimed at restoring Kuwait's independence -even to the point of using force. President Mikhail Gorbachev sought Saturday to stake out a new centrist position that could help cement Soviet credibility with old Arab allies while retaining membership in the international community of 
nations aligned against Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 


OF INTEREST 

•saint Mary's Earth Day 1991 committee will be meeting today at 4 p.m. in Room 11 Holy Cross Hall. Call Teresa Lynch at 284-5403 for more information. 
•A Drop-In Support Group meeting to share feelings 
about the Gulf War will meet in the Hesburgh Library Lounge tonight from 7:30 to 8:20p.m. 
•The Bengal Bouts Promotions Committee will hold a meeting for all students interested in helping with promotions for the 1991 Bengal Bouts at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Boxing Room at the Joyce ACC. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 8, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
187.84 Million 196.10 {} 1.36 S&P COMPOSITE A 359.53 1.r 2.83 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,830.69 • 20.05 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD 1} $2.50 to $ 370.1 Ooz. SILVER if" 2.1¢ to$ 3.833/oz. 



INDIANA 

Hoosier prepares to climb Mt. Everest 
•INDIANAPOLIS 
-David Carter stands only 5-foot­6, but by May he could be the tallest person in the world. The 28-year-old veteran mountain climber will be part of a seven-person American team that plans to scale Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world. Conquering such a lofty goal will require substantial planning and financing, admitted Carter, who works as a salesman for his family's 117 -year-old Carter-Lee Lumber Co. Carter, a trim 145-pounder, runs and lifts weights three to four hours a day, six days a week, in the hope that he can add 10 pounds of muscle to his frame. To prepare for the assault on the 29,028-foot Everest, he has climbed 14,410-foot Mount Rainier in Washington and 20,320­foot Mount McKinley in Alaska. "I've gone to the summit of McKinley six times. That's the best training you can get for Everest," he said. 

•Chimes, 
The Saint Mary's literary magazine, is 


accepting submissions for the 1991 issue in the English Department Office, Room 303 Madeleva Hall. Call Beth RPnaldi at 284-5238 for morP information. 
•The 
An Tostal '91 committee will be selling the 307 Catherine Elsner chocolate bar for $1 through the hall representatives this week. 

•student 
Body assistant treasurer applications may be 


picked up in Student Government office in LaFortune from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1918: President Woodrow Wilson told Congress that Prussian autocracy makes lasting peace impossible. 

• 
In 1922: Russian Soviets reported taking religious treasures to feed the masses. 

•In 
1953: Walt Disney's "Peter Pan" premieres in the United States. 

• 
In 1959: Iran turned down Soviet aid in favor of a U.S. proposal. 



The Observer 

Monday, February 11, 1991 page 3 

Leningrad rally criticizes Gulf War, secession efforts 


CLUB COLUMN 
FEBRUARY 4, 1991 
Amnesty International will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the CSC. Human rights violations in Kuwait, a letter action for Lithuania, and an urgent action will be discussed. 
The Equestrian Club will meet tonight at 8:30 in Room 222 Hesburgh Library to organize for the upcoming horse show at Culver, Feb. 15-17. All interested should attend. 
Management Club will have a mandatory meeting for all members on Wed., Feb. 13 at 7 p.m. in Room 124 Hayes­Healy. New officers will be elected and upcoming events will be discussed. 
Irish Outdoors will meet Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room. Spring Break trip will be canoeing to Georgia. Approximate cost is $100. All interested should attend. 
Fear of Public Speaking? Toastmasters will meet every Wed. at 7:30p.m. in Room 222 Hayes-Healy to help you 
bachev's envoy, Yevgeny Pri­makov, left for Baghdad to try to persuade Saddam Hussein to end the war. Primakov made several diplomatic trips to the Middle East prior to the war. 
Gorbachev said Saturday that the Soviet Union continued to support the U.N. resolutions calling on Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, but warned that the war might "exceed the mandate" of the United Nations. 

Some demonstrators on Len­ingrad's main Palace Square carried signs saying "George Bush Is a Bloody Murderer" and "The U.N. is Sponsoring American-Zionist Aggression," police and witnesses said. Some held up signs of Saddam. 
Iraq was a staunch Soviet ally before its invasion of Kuwait, and some traditional Commu­nists and Soviet military leaders appear to be uncomfortable siding with the U.S.-led multi­national coalition. 
Anti-semitism also seemed to unite some of the demonstra­tors. One placard at the rally said: "We Have a Common En­emy -Zionism." 
The demonstrators also voiced disapproval of Len­ingrad's reformist City Council, which opens its session Monday. Protesters accused the council of failing to improve food supplies. 
improve communications skills. Habitat for Humanity will be holding a meeting Wed., Feb. 
If what happened
13 at 7:30p.m. in the CSC lounge. All interested in helping on a house this spring should attend. 

on your inside 
Bacchus will meet Thurs., Feb. 14 at 7:00p.m. in the 

happened on your
Montgomery Theater. Club room office hours for this semester are: Mon. 9:30­

outside, would 
11 :30 a.m. and 1 :30-7 p.m., and Thurs., 1 :30-8 p.m. 

you still smoke? 
A service of The Observer and the Club 
AMERICAN

Coordination Council. 
CANCER
~SOCIETY' 

$35,000 SCHOlARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial assistance worth as much as $35,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees and gives you an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. . . 

Upon graduation and completion of require­ments, you'll become an important part of the Navy adventure as a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging and rewarding program. 
L T T ricia Vislay Naval ROTC Unit Notre Dame 239-6065/7274 
N 
AlTV ROTC You and the Navy.
.tl.l' I Full Speed Ahead. 
Clarification peared at the debate, wore 
In the illustration which semi-formal attire. The appeared in Friday's election omission, and any impres­coverage, student body vice­sions readers might have presidential candidate Eric drawn from it, were unin­
Griggs was inadvertently tentional. The Observer re­
drawn without the coat and grets any misconceptions tie he wore to last Wednes­about Griggs which may have day's debate. Griggs, like all resulted from this error. of the candidates who ap­
go to work. You even get a free trial we've managed tO squeeze the most 
In the NeXTstation'"computcr. 

subscription to Neli.'TWORLD'"mag­possible computer into the least 
azinc. to keep you up to date. possible space.\Vc\•e also squeezed 
And to make our case cl'en more the most possible computer into the 
compelling. we'll send a free copy of least possible price. 
the extraordinary spreadsheet pm· One low price includes not only 
~ram. Lotus lmpro' Ia 'foh')5 value). the kevboard and monitor. but a full 
to C\'Cr~·onc who purchases and rc~is­eight ~egabvtes of memory. a built-in 
ters a NeXTstation or NeXTcuhc 2.RR-mcgabvtc Aoppy uisk drive and 
computer. or an 040 up~:radc hoard Ethcrnet.The NeXTstation is also before March 31, 199t.• equipped" ith a lOS-megabyte hard 
We couldn't even ~ucss where disk. onto which we ha,·e taken the 
\'OU could make a comparable pur-Iibert\' of installing a rather formida­~hasc. But we can tell you c.:­
~ 

actlywhcre to make this WriteNow.".llatlmnatim: NeXTmail'" 
ble package of software. including 

one.Check the space and Digital Webster.'" So all you have 
below to lind the location tO do is plug it in and vou're ready to 
of your l'ampus rcscller. • 

MOSCOW (AP) -Thousands of protesters rallied Sunday in Leningrad, denouncing allied forces in the Gulf War and in­dependence movements in the Baltics and elsewhere. 
The Leningrad rally was or­ganized by war veterans, Com­munist Party traditionalists and the hard-line Soyuz faction of the Supreme Soviet legislature. Tass, the Soviet news agency, said 4,000 people participated while Leningrad police put the figure at 7,000 to 8,000 
The groups are united by their opposition to the independence movements in Moldavia, Georgia, Armenia, the Ukraine and the Baltic republics. Soyuz members also have spoken against the military action against Iraq, saying diplomatic solutions were possible. 
Soviet media reported Sunday that President Mikhail Gor­


------~ ~-~---------------------·----··--­
The Observer 
Mo 


Experts: murder of Brazilian activist may bring more fighting 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil (AP) -More unionists and defend­ers of the vast Amazon rain forest may be killed if the gov­ernment does not move quickly to prosecute gunmen and enact land reform, activists say. 
The predictions follow the shooting Feb. 2 of Amazon unionist Expedito Riberio de Souza near his home in Rio Maria, a jungle village 2,000 miles north of Rio. 
"The violence will only end when the government makes good on its promise to redis­tribute land and starts punish­ing the killers," said Rev. Ri­cardo Resende, a Roman Catholic priest who presided at Riberio de Souza's funeral ­and one of six area land reform activists under death threat. 
Police arrested Jose Serafim Sales on Friday in connection with Riberio de Souza's murder. Resende believes Sales was paid by a group of large landowners who want to wipe out the peasant demands for land. 
The root of the violence is Brazil's unequal pattern of landholding, says Ana Pinto de Souza, an activist with the Catholic Church's Pastoral Land Commission. Less than two percent of farmers own over half the arable land. 
Earlier this month, the New York-based human rights group America Watch accused Brazilian authorities of abdi­cating "their roles of preventing and punishing criminal vio­lence." 
"(They have) granted de facto impunity to the hired guns of powerful landowners," said an Americas Watch report. 
The rights group said 1,565 rural workers and their sup­porters had been killed from 1964 to 1989. Only eight gun­men were convicted during that period. 
In December, a cattle rancher and his son were found guilty for the 1988 murder of Chico Mendes, the internationally known leader of rubber-tappers and activist to preserve the Amazon, the world's largest rain forest. 
Many had hoped the prosecu­tions in the Mendes case would deter future killings. 
Rio Maria, where Riberio de Souza was shot, is in southern Para state, the heart of the land conflict. Over 170 activists have been murdered there the past 11 years and not a single case has been tried. 
Ribeiro de Souza, 46, who left nine children and two grand­children, often said he expected to die a violent death. 
"Death will arrive one day, only the hour is uncertain. Often it comes by surprise, and like a bolt from the blue," he wrote in a poem a few years ago. 
After the killing, a note was delivered to his house, saying Resende and leftist congress­man Waldir Ganzer would be the next to die. 
Others receiving death threats included Roberto Silva, the only union president in Rio Maria to survive his term in office, and Orlando Canuto, whose two brothers were assassinated in July. The Canuto's father, Joao, who founded the local, was murdered in 1985. 
"The killings are not isolated incidents but form part of a larger conspiracy," Resende said. 
Peruvian cholera death toll rises to 51 
LIMA, Peru, (AP) -At least 51 people have died from a cholera epidemic that began in the coastal city of Chimbote and has spread along the entire coast of Peru, a Peruvian Health Ministry spokesman said Sunday. 
Dr. Pedro Guerrero said 
health officials have treated 5,200 cholera victims and that 20 percent of them have been hospitalized. 
Health officials warned the public to boil drinking water for at least 10 minutes and to be especially careful about per­sonal hygiene. People were ad­vised not to eat in street food stands and to avoid swimming in the ocean until the epidemic is over. 
Guerrero said health officials hope to eradicate the disease within a few months, but that much of the success depends on public cooperation. 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development  
~ .:.-•;  and  
The Kellogg Institute  
present:  

Regional Consequences of the Gulf War 
featuring 

Rashid Khalidi 
I 

Associate Professor of Modern Middle East History at the University of Chicago 
Recent guest on the MacNeill/Lehrer News Report 
Tuesday, February 12,1991 6:30pm 120 Law School 
An invaluable opportunity to learn more about Syria, Lebanon & Palestine, as well as the Arab-Israeli conflict and the growth of nation-state nationalism in the Arab world. Don't miss it ! 

The Observer page 5
Monday, February 11, 1991 


'Perfect crime' could send suspect to electric chair 
BAHTOW, Fla. (AP) -Days prosecutors said tried to pull off neighbor's kitchen, prosecutors banned as a rat poison in the sponse bore a resemblance to a aftnr Pnggy Carr sipped from a the "perfect crime." said. early 1970s. threatening typewritten note poisoned eight-pack of Coca­"Here's a man who thought he Carr, a slight 41-year-old Four other members of Carr's the Carrs received a few Cola, hnr hair began to fall out, was so smart he could literally waitress, at first did not know family were poisoned, but not months before they were poi­her feet felt like fire and she get away with murder," said what was causing her nausea, fatally. Carr died March 3, soned: "You and all your so­could no longer walk. prosecutor John Aguero. "I and the pain in her feet and 1989. called family have two weeks to 
Before lapsing into a three­think he actually believed, legs. A week went by before her move out of Florida forever or month coma from which she because of his intellectual level, husband, Parearlyn, carried her Trepal first became a suspect else you all die. This is no joke." would never awake, she kept he would never be found out." like a baby into Winter Haven in December 1988 during rou­In an unusual move, an un­asking "Why?" Hospital. tine community interviews. dercover agent was assigned to 
It's a question investigators Authorities maintained Trepal The poison left Carr unable to Most friends and neighbors had befriend Trepal while posing as spnnt more than two years try­was fed up with his neighbors' speak, but she knew sign lan­no clue why the Carrs would be a member of his Mensa group. ing to answer and prosecutors a loud music, noisy off-road guage because her parents poisoned, but Trepal was quick "Once I got to know him, I month trying to prove. bikes, barking dogs and other were deaf. Through her sister, to volunteer his theory. found him very funny and 
Last week, a jury convicted aggravations that built up over she attempted to communicate. "Somebody wanted them to witty," said the agent, Susan thn meek, self-styled genius eight ~·ears in the orange grove­"She asked why," testified her move out," Polk County Detec­Goreck. "But what also came who lived next door, George dotted community of Alturas in sister, Shirley Martin. "She kept tive Ernie Mincey quoted Trepal out was how he backed away James Trepal. west-central Florida. wanting to know why." as saying. "That was the reason from people he had a problem 
The panel also recommended So in October 1988, he spiked Just before Carr lapsed into a they were poisoned." with. That fits the profile of the the electric chair for the 42-16-ounce bottles of Coca-Cola coma, a lab test confirmed she "He appeared to be extremely poisoner perfectly, someone year-old computer programmer, Classic with thallium nitrate, a had been poisoned with thal­nervous," Mincey said. "He was who is going to do something chemistry buff and high-IQ highly toxic heavy metal, and lium, which the federal Envi­visibly shaking." underhanded because it's non­Mensa club member who somehow sneaked them into his ronmental Protection Agency Detectives said Trepal's re-confrontational." 
Chinese activist's hunger strike _will delay his trial 
BEIJING (APl -A leading on condition of anonymity. He democracy activist charged also is refusing to put on with sedition went on trial clothes "as a form of protest," Monday despite his efforts to one source said. postpone proceedings by stag­ing a hunger strike. Chen wanted to delay the trial 
15 days because his lawyer has 

More than a dozen police had less than a week to pre­stood around the courthouse in pare, the sources said. central Beijing and blocknd for­Under Chinese law, a defen­nign journalists from reading a dant cannot hire a lawyer until small notice that announced the his charge has been lodged with trial of Chen Ziming. However, the court. The trial can begin Chinesn were allowed to read within three days. the notictJ. The maximum punishment 
Chen. 3H, thtJ director of a for sedition is death, but China private research institute, gave rarely executes intellectuals. advie£' behind the scenes to the college students whose protests Authorities have threatened fur reform in 1989 grtJw into a not to let Chen's family attend nationwide democracy move­the trial if he continues his ment. He has spent more than a hunger strike, the sources said. y!lar in jail in solitary confine­They said he remains in fairly ment. good health and is taking water. Security check 
AP Photo 

Chen started his hunger He is in solitary confinement at 
Israeli border police check the identification off a young Arab ne_ar the D~mascus Gate in ea~t Jerusalem
strike Thursday, according to Qincheng prison on Beijing's 
Saturday. Two Palestinian youths attacked a post office guard w1th an ax 1n east Jerusalem Fnday. 
friends and relatives who spoke outskirts. 

Diplomats in Amman, Jordan, said Sunday that Iraq had re­jected peace initiatives by Iran and the non-aligned movement, feeling confident it can survive a ground assault by the U.S.-led allies. 
The assessment by indepen­dent diplomats close to peace­making efforts was bolstered by statements from Iraq and Iran. Iran's president, Hashemi Rafsanjani, has joined other leaders in trying to arrange a cease-fire. 
Soviet television reported that Yevgeny Primakov, a personal representative of Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev, headed to Iraq on Sunday. 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 
who now have about 700,000 soldiers in the region, including 505,000 Americans. 
Several hours before Sad­dam's speech, Baghdad radio said Iraqi troops were prepared "to make this duel the end of · the imperialist American empire." 
"Let them dare to attack," the radio said. 
On the diplomatic front, Iraq reportedly rejected two new peace plans, and a Soviet envoy traveled to Baghdad for talks with Saddam Hussein. 


The Observer 

page 6 Monday, February 11, 1991 
Japan's first nuclear accident shows no sign of radiation leak 



VALENTINE'S DAY F'EB 14 
Roses, fresh flower Arrangements, Balloons, Blooming Plants & Gifts 
10°/o off with student I.D. 
SPECIAL HOURS 
Sun 12-4, M.on 9-7 We Deliver 
Tues 9-7, Wed 9-7 
Down the road 
from the stadium. 
256-7277 
AP Photo

Spent launchers 
U.S. Army soldiers stand guard at a Patriot missile installation Sat­urday afternoon. Spent launchers lay piled up in the background. 
lilT' 

Tltt~
PANCAK'-"' SERVING ~ 
" ) ND/SMC -,~

HOusE STUDENTS -11 tt~ ~fluruud I FOR 25 YEARS 1 J 
TOKYO (AP) -A day after a nuclear reactor shut down be­cause abnormal levels of ra­dioactivity were detected, there was no sign any radiation had escaped outside the plant, the company said Sunday. 
The 13 monitoring posts within a mile of the Mihama Nuclear Power Plant in Fukui, western Japan, detected no evi­dence of radiation leakage by Sunday night, said Kenji Uchida of the Kansai Electric Power Co. The plant is 220 miles west of Tokyo. 
Kansai Electric and govern­ment officials said the reactor began showing abnormal ra­dioactivity readings in its sec­ondary cooling system at 1:40 
p.m. Saturday, when the reactor was operating at maximum capacity. 
Workers manually started to reduce its output, and the 500,000-kilowatt reactor stopped 10 minutes later after the emergency system automat­ically began, they said. 
It was the first time in Japan that an emergency core cooling system has shut down a reactor due to an actual accident, offi­cials said. Such systems previ­ously had been triggered three times because of system mal­functions. 
"Immediat'lly after the warn­ing bell rang, a filter circuit eliminating radioactive sub­stances began to work so that we believe there would be no effect on the environment," Uchida said. 
Plant spokesman Kazuaki 
Takemoto said it was likely small tubes in the plant's steam generator that transmit heat from the primary to the sec­ondary cooling system were damaged, allowing 20 tons of radiated water to pass from one system to the other . 
Uchida said the company did not know when the plant could resume ·operations. 
Japan has had no serious ac­cidents reported at its nuclear power plants, and continues to expand its nuclear facilities to reduce its dependence on im­ported oil. Japan imports more than 99 percent of its oil. 
Nuclear plants supply 28 per­cent of Japan's power needs. Government experts predict the share will rise to 36 percent by 1995. 
American Heart Association 
I 
I 
DON'T MAKE YOUR VALENTINE WAIT! 
Order your Valentine's Day flowers for early delivery on February 1Oth, 11th, or 12th 
and receive a Valentine Mylar Balloon 
ABSOLUTELY FREE! 
Linda's Flower Market 2128 South Bend Avenue South Bend. In 46637 
call 272-0902 
·in town delivery only. 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. All Month 
Free Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Purchase 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30A.M. 
February ti Special • ~ All Month Apple Pancakes 
$JOO 
OFF 
No Coupon Needed 
~4/JINI 11a~14­Z'~I 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 

l 
I Monday, February 11, 1991 The Observer page 7 I 

Arizona bribery sting nets 7 indictments 
PHOENIX (AP) -Arizona's political arnna, tarnished by the governor's impeachment in 1988 and ethics complaints against its U.S. senators, is reeling from a sting that netted indictments against seven state legislators. 
The yearlong undercover op­eration emerged last week just as the Statehouse was consider­ing cuts in law enforcement funds and changes in prison­sentencing laws. Defense lawyers claim the timing is more than coincidental. 
Videotapes already shown on television have the Statehouse squirming. 
"How do you launder this much?" the Senate majority whip, Democrat Carolyn Walker, asks as she accepts $15,000 in cash, in a scene cap­tun)d on videotape. 
"My favorite line is, 'What's in it for me!'" Rep. Bobby Ray­mond remarks in another video. 
"This keeps Arizona in the forefront of the states that continue to shoot themselves in the foot," said former state Se­nate President Carl Kunasek after the indictments were an­nounced Tuesday. "We are our own worst enemy." 
Prosecutors have acknowl­edged that the sting, dubbed Desert Shame, pumped tens of thousands of dollars into last fall's election races and could have tilted some outcomes. But they said the effect was worth­while because public officials are likely to lose their offices. 
The Arizona Civil Liberties Union called for an investiga­tion of the probe's impact on the elections, saying voters' constitutional rights were vio­lated. Two of the indicted law­makers were elected by fewer than 1,000 votes out of about 50,000 ballots cast in each race. 
The seven lawmakers, a jus­tice of the peace, a former state Democratic Party executive di­rector, a former jail guard and five others who are either lob­byists and activists were in­dicted on charges of conspiracy to bribe and launder money. 


AP Photo

Egyptians on the border 
Egyptian tank troops, dug in at the border of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait Thursday, watch for Iraqi military activity. 
Some employers promise 
you the world 
:*tlD*iJ~NGAt"BOtffs"! 
~ is looking for enthusiastic individuals to
We offer you achance 
~ help with promotions for this year's tournament.
to make the world better 
~ All interested, meeting WED. FEB 13th 
"t 7pm in the Boxing Room at the JACC ~ or call 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
~ Amv Raczkowski 272-8954
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
University of Notre Dame for college graduates 
******************** 
interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Scholarship assistance is available. 
©©~~@@01) 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C 
@J[!@@[Jl]~[[TI(ID~ ~ 
Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

Love,
(219) 239-6385 

DAD, MOM, GRANDPA; GRANDMA, KEVIN, _ TERRI, TAFFY and BUGSLEY
THE A'AIL sTUDio 
Stacey 
Regular $55 Student Discount $15 off Now $40 for Full Set of Solar Sculptured Nails 
The 
iC 
iC 
~ 
~ 
~ 
-« ~ 
Bomb in Athens bus explodes 

ATHENS, Greece (AP) -A bomb exploded beneath an empty tourist bus parked near the Acropolis on Sunday, police said. No injuries were reported. 
Police said the explosive had been placed in a plastic bag, and ripped out the cargo doors of the bus when it went otT at 
11:40 a.m. No one claimed re­sponsibility for it. 
A police spokesman said the tour bus company records showed it was chartered to the Hellenic Aerospace lnd,ustry and was used daily to shuttle civilian employees to its head­quarters at a Greek air force base in Tanagra, 14 miles northwest of the capital. 
Tour buses are often char­tered to companies in the off­season when there are few tourists in Athens. 
The bus was parked below the Acropolis and across the road from the house of former Premier Xenophon Zolotas. Windows of a house next to the premier's shattered in the blast. 
A Zolotas employee said the former premier had left home for the day 10 minutes before the explosion. 
"The bus was empty. It be­longs to a driver who has nowhere to park near his home and he often leaves it here overnight," said Paraskevi Kokkoni, the employee. 
The Acropolis and its classi­cal Greek temples dating from the fifth century B.C. are Greece's most important tourist site. 
But since the beginning of the Gulf War, Greece has been rocked by a series of small ex­plosions at Western targets by sympathizers of the Iraqi regime. 
Greece, which is part of the U.S.-led alliance, has protested against the Japanese and U.S. governments advising their na­tionals to avoid traveling to Greece. 
2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 


~3nail technicians, who will pamper you with personalized, quality service. DIAL When you're ready for a 
change to a more natural 
looking nails call on The 
Castle. We're in the 

27-ROSES
spotlight, for performance, precision and elegance. 

FOR VALENTINES FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
Manicures by Jessica Whirlpool Pedicures ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDALLS INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760
Castle 

VISA WE DELIVER 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Just 5 minutes from campus 
272-0312272-8471 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
eage 8  Monday, February 11, 1991  
Weekend Gulf Roundup  Saddam salutes Iraq's strength  
Chinese encourage Americans in the Gulf  


•BEIJING -A bank clerk wants to join the U.S. forces in the Gulf War. A factory worker suggests the Americans dress like Arabs and sneak into Iraq. A retiree predicts a U.S. victory and asks to attend the White House celebration. They are among dozens of Chinese who have sent advice, encouragement and even money to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing since the Gulf War started on Jan. 17. Despite official Chinese calls for both sides to stop fighting, public opinion appears overwhelmingly behind the 
U.S. use of force. "I have thought of a way to remove Iraq's mines. Though it is very simple, yet I think the U.S. commander in the gulf may not have thought of it," one letter from an inland city began. The writer suggested weaving huge mats with strips of rubber from used tires and placing these over the mines to protect against their explosion. Construction workers in his city use such mats when blasting out foundations, he said. 
Workers stage strike at Alliant Techsystems 
•MINNEAPOLIS -Workers for a defense contractor went on strike at midnight Saturday, but Alliant Techsystems Inc. had said earlier a walkout would not hinder its production of mate­rials for the Gulf War. At issue in the strike by 1,300 workers is the Minnetonka-based company's effort to extend the contract rather than negotiate a new one, a union official said. The con­tract expired at midnight Saturday. Bill Tyler, secretary-trea­surer of Teamsters union Local 1145, told the Star Tribune in a report for Sunday's editions that the length of the contract was the main issue. Workers voted 630-375 Saturday to reject a company offer to extend the current contract for eight months and give a one-time bonus of $800 to $1,600, Tyler said. Alliant spokesman Howard Schlaifer was unavailable for comment after the strike began, according to a woman reached at his home. But earlier, after the strike vote was taken, Schlaifer said the company would continue to fill Pentagon orders. 
UNICEF relief convoy to go to Baghdad 
•UNITED NATIONS -UNICEF's director said Friday he ex­pects the allies will grant safe passage to a convoy of dozens of 
U.N. trucks carrying emergency medicines from Iran to Bagh­dad. U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering and British Ambas­sador Sir David Hannay said their governments had been ad­vised of plans for the convoy and would make arrangements. James Grant, director of the U.N. Children's Fund, said the con­voy set up by the fund and the World Health Organization will send $500,000 in medical supplies to Iraqi women and children, probably late next week. The trucks will head from Tehran, the Iranian capital, to Baghdad, mainly carrying medicine for chil­dren, Grant said. Addressing concerns that such drugs could be diverted to the military, he said the Iraqi army would already have stockpiled such drugs. UNICEF and the World Health Or­ganization are asking the allies to suspend hostilities along the highway as the convoy passes, Grant said. He noted all members of the U.S.-led multinational coalition have agreed children should be exempt from wartime privation. 
NPR affiliates asked to donate $1.4 million 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Sad­"Iraq is not ready to relin­shine out more in front of the dam Hussein took to the air­quish the role given to it by whole world. waves Sunday with a pep talk to God," he said. the Iraqi people, praising what It was the first time the Iraqi "All the good people will be he called their patience and president had broadcast com­victorious as Iraq, and victory steadfastness during more than ments since an interview two will restore to the Iraqis all the three weeks of allied bombing. weeks ago with Peter Arnett of requirements for a free and 
the Cable News Network. honorable living that they will 
In remarks reported by the The speech was broadcast on merit as a reward for their pa­official Iraqi News Agency, Iraqi radio but could not be tience and steadfastness," Sad­Saddam said his people were monitored in Nicosia because of dam was quoted as saying. more determined than ever, and poor reception. INA carried The speech, which ran about that their valor had inspired the excerpts. 20 minutes, was broadcast at soldiers on the front line in It quoted Saddam as saying 10 p.m. (2 p.m. EST}, shortly Kuwait. the Iraqis "each passing hour after the news agency an­
He reiterated that Iraq would and day become more firm in nounced that a "historic emerge victorious. what they believe, and they speech" would be aired. 

With their trophy 
Members of the U.S. Army 11th Air Defense Artillery, holding up T-shirts calling them "Scud Busters," stand over the remains of an Iraqi Scud-B missile Saturday near an airbase in central Saudi Arabia. 
AP Photo 
Campus environmental group takes no stance on Gulf War 
By BECKY RITZERT Even without stating a posi­SEA statement) was that this News Writer tion on the war, "we felt it was war has really highlighted the necessary to put out a state­need for a. change in energy 
Although a statement recently ment because people might be policy," said Jenista. issued by Notre Dame Students interested" in NDSEA's views, The NDSEA statement notes for Environmental Action said Jenista. the failure of the Bush adminis­(NDSEA) voiced concern about Jenista pointed out that while tration to implement a national the environmental aspects of the environment is affected by conservation policy and says the Persian Gulf war, the group the war, environmental issues that "increased efficiency and has chosen not to take a posi­are not just wartime issues. conservation are the best an­tion on the war itself. "We are in a war and there swers" to current energy needs. 
The group felt that if it took a are going to be detrimental en­NDSEA hopes to educate stu­stand against the war because vironmental effects, but we're dents in conservation methods of environmental concerns, it concentrating on energy poli­and to work with university of­would falsely represent the cies in the States," said Jenista. ficials to make the-campus group as having "almost a Jenista, noting the oil dump­more efficient through its Pre­pacifist attitude,"according to ing of Saddam Hussein as well Cycling Campaign, said Jenista. Amy Jenista, NDSEA co-presi­as the militarization of the The program will include en­dent. United States, said that both couraging students to reduce 
"Other circumstances besides sides can be condemned for en­energy consumption, investigat­the environment" determine a vironmental damage. ing alternative energy re­person's position on the war "We want to avoid future en­sources, and examining univer­and that NDSEA has both pro­vironmental crises," said sity proquement policies, war and anti-war members, Jenista. Jenista said. Jenista said. "The overall idea (of the ND­
•WASHINGTON -National Public Radio, strapped for cash because of its around-the-clock coverage of the Persian Gulf War, is asking affiliate stations to help foot the bill. The network needs $1.4 million by March 1 to continue its current level of coverage, NPR officials said Friday. "If every one (of the affiliates) contributes just a little we'll make it," said Bill Buzenberg, NPR's vice president for news and information. On Tuesday, NPR Chairman Dale Ouzts sent letters to the network's 411 affiliates asking them to contribute anywhere from $1,000 to $26,000, depending on their size. But many of the stations are "very, very small and ~II not be able to help" because of their tight budgets, Buzenberg said. However, he added, "we have had a very gratifying response so far." Ten to 12 stations had promised a total of $92,000 and a California affiliate had pledged $100,000 as of Friday. Since U.S. and allied forces began their repeated bombardments of Iraqi positions, NPR has increased its five­minute hourly newscasts from 18 to 24 a day, added an after­noon call-in show, and dispatched eight correspondents to the gulf region. 
Peace Group Meeting Feb. 12 5-6p.m. R.m II HolyCross Hall \~OVIE: FAGES OF THE Et~IEM~" TON IGHT rN STAPELTON <:·up.riL Sponsored brj S~"IC Peace Group  "SUSPENSEFUL, SEDUGITVE ANDWILDIXEROTIC." -f\>tnTravtors, ROLJ.JNG ~'TONE MAC;AZIN'E P A C I N 0 SEAOFLOVE 001 OOLSY ST'EREO 1~ AUNIVERSAL PICTURE .. t;llECTE01l1E"'IIIES © ll!!UNIVERSAI.CITYmJDIOS,INC FE5. 11-13 9 & 11p.m. ca rro 11 AIJdi tori um $1  


AP Photo

Waiting and watching 
A Saudi Arabian tank crew, dug in to a sand barrier on the Saudi-Kuwaiti border Thursday, scans the horizon for signs of Iraqi forces as coalition forces prepare for a possible ground war. 
Kuwait prepares post-war relief program 
DIIAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -As military forces mass on the Kuwait border, Kuwaiti offidals are stockpiling millions of dollars in medical supplies, electric generators and fresh water, preparing for their strieken eountry's reeapture. 
"We have assumed the worst ease about our eountry, that the oeeupalion has destroyed water d!lsalinization, power stations, eommunication, food supplies and medical care," said Ihrahi m Majid al-Shaheen, program direetor of the Kuwait Task Force. 
The task force has drawn up plans for the reconstruction of Kuwait, including an nnwrgency program to get enough serviees and supplies to about HOO,OOO Kuwaitis still in the country, al-Shaheen said. 
AI-Shaheen estimated that the rebuilding program would run into the billions of dollars and take at least live years. He said the oil-rich Kuwaitis would be abh1 to pay their own way. 
"I think and I hope Kuwait will be able to rebuild without borrowing money," he said. 
AI-Shaheen, a U.S.-educated architect, said the task force already has signed 171 con­tracts worth some $800 million for emergency materials such as medical equipment and sup­plies, water, food and electric generators. 
Some 70 percent of the con­tracts are with U.S. firms, he said. 
AI-Shaheen remained in his country "for awhile" after the Aug. 2 occupation by Iraq forces. He said information coming out of the country since indicates that much of its in­frastructure has been damaged or destroyed. 
Critical water desalinization plants have not been main­tained, he said. Electrical gen­eration systems are failing, leaving sections of the country without power. Roads and bridges have been damaged by tanks. Food and medical sup­plies have been looted, medical equipment pulled out of hospi­tals and carted back to Iraq. 

"Much of the country is only a shell," he said. "The hospitals and schools are still standing, but they have been emptied." 
Health issues are an immedi­ate problem, al-Shaheen said. Garbage has begun to collect in residential areas, creating the threat of disease. 
AI-Shaheen said Kuwaitis have begun to collect emer­gency supplies in Dhahran and other gulf ports in anticipation of his country's freedom from Iraqi occupation. But he eau­tioned Kuwaiti refugees not to rush back into their country until after 90 days, to give workers a chance to prepare for their return. 
Kuwait officials have tapped their own countrymen to do the initial work, drawing from the nation's professionals to make assessments on what is needed and to draw up plans on how a reconstruction program would work, al-Shaheen said. 
page 9 

Cheney: next phase of war will be decisive 
SIGONELLA, Sicily (AP) ­Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Sunday that allied bom­bardments had sharply reduced the capability of the Iraqi mili­tary, but officials acknowledged that allied commanders have sought more time to prepare for the "decisive" next step in the Gulf War. 
En route home to brief Presi­dent Bush on the prospects for a dangerous ground campaign to oust Iraqi troops from Kuwait, Cheney said the air campaign had reduced the fighting power of some Iraqi divisions by as much as 40 per­cent. 
He said the next phase of the war would likely combine air power with both ground and amphibious combat, but he would not say how soon it might begin. 
A senior administration offi­cial said "the question of tim­ing" was discussed but not re­solved during meetings 
What a kiss 


Dick Cheney 

between Cheney, Chairman Colin Powell of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and top Desert Storm commanders. "The bulk of everything we want" has arrived, the official said, and "the force we've got deployed now is indeed ready." 
Following the talks, a senior military official said there was a general feeling among U.S. officers that allied forces could use another three to four weeks to prepare for ground combat. 
AP Photo 

Vice President Dan Quayle kisses the cheek of 5-year-old Megan Myatt of Phoenix during a visit to Luke Air Force base Friday. 
THE IMPACT OF WAR: HOW IS IT AFFECTING YOU? 
A support group for students concerned about the crisis in the Persian Gulf An opportunity to: discuss not debate your personal response. If you are feeling ... frustrated.. . 
confused.. . misunderstood. 
A drop-in service held Monday evenings, beginning February 11, 1991 7:30-8:20 pm I Hesburgh Library Lounge during the spring semester 
Come once, or as many times as you like during the semester! 
Sponsored By: Center for Social Concerns University Counseling Center 
P.I.M.E. MISSIONARIES 

Fulfilling one's life through a missionary vocation 
~ 

The Pontiflcalln.tltute lor Foreign Missions (the PIME MissionarieS) ia an tntemational com­munity of CathOlic prlella and laymen who make a lifelong commitment to continuing the mission of Jesus Ctvla! In the modem world. We 1M the Goapelln ~. Brazil. Hong Kong, India. Japan, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea. Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and West Africa among the poor and unchurched. 
Founded In Italy In 18110. a group of dioce­AII prteata, Ill the encou1'8g81Mf1t of their bl8hope, grew in their undenltandtng of jus! pre­cilely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be open to dialogUe, prayer and ll4llftels serviCe. especially to the poor. The mis­aionllry must learn how to be a sign of shared faith betWeen well established European and American local churcl'les and peoples where the Church is just beginning. The missionary must knoW how to announce the KingdOm of God while being a Ioree lor transformation of those societal values which do not build up that 
Kingdom. 11 you are a young man be-n 18 and 35, In good health and spirits, excited to live your faith In the mlas•onary way described above. send In or call lor information today. Fr. John J. Majka 
PIME MISSIONARIES 
35750 Moravian Dr. FRASER. MICHIGAN 48026 Phone (3t3J 78t·2t00 

page 10 The Observer Monday, February 11, 1991 
'Fatal Attraction' trial draws capacity crowds at court 

WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. (AP)­On Jan. 15, 1989, Paul Solomon met his mistress for drinks and a night of passion. When he re­turned home, his wife was lying dead on the floor, nine bullets in her body. 
Prosecutors say that shortly before the rendezvous. 27-year­old Carolyn Warmus shot to death Betty Jeanne Solomon, 40, because she was obsessed with Mrs. Solomon's husband. 
Her murder trial, now in its fifth week, continues to play like a Hollywood script. The case has been compared to the hit movie "Fatal Attraction" ­in which a woman terrorizes a man's family after she has a weekend fling with him -and is drawing capacity crowds to the county courthouse. 
Solomon and Warmus have acknowledged meeting for drinks and sex the night Mrs. Solomon was killed. He broke off the relationship after his wife's slaying. 
Last Thursday, Solomon, 43, tearfully recounted from the witness stand making love to his wife in the morning, then lying to her hours later and leaving to meet Warmus at a bar in nearby Yonkers, north of New York City. 
Solomon said he met Warmus in 1987 when they were both teachers at a Westchester County elementary school, and described her as "a wonderful person" for whom he cared deeply, Solomon said. They made love for the first time in her apartment, he said. 
"We became more intensely involved during those first one or two months," he said. "I certainly liked her a lot." 

At Christmas, they exchanged gifts. Solomon gave her a stuffed animal, which she named Fluff, and she gave him a vibrating muscle relaxer, which he had difficulty describ­ing. Spectators in the packed public gallery giggled. 
Warmus, sitting at the de­fense table, occasionally looked up at Solomon in the witness stand. Although she attended pretrial hearings in miniskirts and low-cut blouses, the jury has seen only the conservative Warmus: bulky sweaters, long skirts and boots. 
Solomon's version of the affair had him trying to convince Warmus it was best to end their relationship, while Warmus insisted: "Life's not worth living without you." 
The defense maintains War­mus was set up by private in­vestigator Vincent Parco, who is expected to testify later in the trial. Warmus knew Parco because she had hired him to investigate another married boyfriend. 



Beat out the competition this Valentines Day with some terrific strategy. Just call your FTD® Florist and send the FTD Flower Basket Bouquet. And to be sure your Valentine gets one, send it a day or two early. 
And she may ask you to stay late. • 
*Regisn:ral trademark ofFTD. ©1991 FTD. ® 
Business 
Monday, February 11, 1991 page 11 

Increase predicted in automobile sales 
ATLANTA (AP)-The National Automobile Dealers Association is bucking the trend in the auto industry and predicting that its members will sell 13.8 million vehicles this year, a figure much higher than other esti­mates. 
The organization's chief economist, Tom Webb, said Sunday the recession should be mild and brief and vehicle sales should pick up soon, ending the year at the same level as last year. 
Executives of General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. also have specu­latHd that the economy should bngin picking up by Christmas. But they and Wall Street ana­lysts said final 1991 sales lig­ures should be about 5 percent b11low last ymtr. 
"The rnason for my optimism," Webb said, "is primarily bHeause the recession was so widely anticipated." 
Last ymtr, dealers sharply cut their vehicle orders from facto­ries, reducing new-vehicle in­ventories. That helped drive down their costs, but it also re­sulted in temporary factory closings and tens of thousands of layoffs. 
More than half the 20,000 dealers represented by NADA either lost money or were only marginally profitable last year, Webb said. Typically, dealers' 
COCA-COLA EARNINGS Net Income 
In millions of dollars 
$1,380 

$co 
1989 1990 
profits amount to about 2 per­cent of total sales. 
In 1989, Webb said, that fig­ure dropped to about 1 percent, and ''I'm sure the (1990) figure is going to be almost identical to1989." 
Dealers are making their money on service and parts op­erations, not on new or used car sales, Webb said. 
'The new vehicle department is basically a break-even opera­tion," he said. 
The recession and the Gulf War have slowed showroom traffic to a trickle and lenders, including those controlled by automakers, are toughening requirements to borrow money. 
Yet, there's reason for opti­mism, Webb said. "There is pent-up demand out there," he said. About 47 million new cars and trucks were sold in 1985­
87. Dealers and manufacturers are counting on those cars becoming ripe for trade in soon. 
It hasn't happened yet. January sales were down 27.8 percent from last year and worked out to an annualized rate of about 11.2 million, far less than the 13.8 million Webb is estimating. 
"They (consumers) don't seem to care about buying," said Sonny Dixon, owner of a Chevrolet dealership in Gordon, Ga., Sunday. 
FACTORY ORDERS 
Total new orders in billions ol dollars, seasonally adjusted 

280 
210 200 
0 

1990 
Dec.'89 Nov. '90 Dec. '90 
I 24o.s I I 235.7 I I23s.&l 
Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce 
AP 

THREE DIFFERENT VIEWS OF THE .ECONOMY 
Operation-Desert Storm is creating uncertainty tor corporations because of the economic variables related to the war. The charts below show different paths the economy could take depending on developments in the Persian Gull. ·--Recession and War --The Conference Board Base Forecast -Peace and Prosperity 
Real GNP 1991 
Inflation 1991 
Capital spending 1991 
10 
2 
8 0 
6 
4 

-4 -+----.....--i---.--+---.-----4 2+-~~~~-T--~~ 1 0 20 30 40 1Q 20 30 40 
APSource: The Conference Board 
States scramble to land United plant 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -Not since General Motors dangled its Saturn plant carrot have states been enticed by such friendly economic skies. 
The big plum this time is a projected $1 billion United Airlines maintenance plant. 
Oklahoma City and locations in seven other states are scrambling to land the facility, called the biggest economic project going. 
United is expected to name a final location in March. It will close an elimination process that initially included 90 loca­tions. The number has been pared to nine. 
Some involved with the project compare it to the Saturn Plant that eventually landed in Spring Hill, Tenn. Announcement in 1985 of that projected $5 billion plant, to eventually employ about 6,000 workers, triggered lobbying efforts from at least two dozen states. 
In essence, the Saturn projec­tions have been halved. Only time will tell if those for the United plant will live up to their billing, but the push to find out is on. 
"If United chose the Oklahoma City area, it would be clearly a bonanza for the state of Oklahoma," said Alex Kondonassis, professor of eco­nomics at the University of Oklahoma. 
According to the airline, it could be a bonanza for one of eight other locations: Denver, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Dulles International Airport near Washington, D.C., Martinsburg, 
W. Va., Rantoul, Ill., near Chicago, Greensboro, N.C. and Louisville, Ky. 
United already has a major maintenance facility in San 
Francisco. But there is little space for expansion there and United's fleet is growing rapidly, said spokesperson Joe Hopkins. 
Tom Gougeon, director of economic development with the mayor's office in Denver, said the project is as big as it's billed. 
"Sometimes these things are hyped by people," Gougeon said. "But there are only going to be a few of these in-house facilities serving major airlines.' 
American Airlines has recently settled in Texas, and most other major carriers are not considering big moves because of financial and other reasons Gougeon said. 
The United plant would em­ploy between 5,000 and 8,000 people by year 2000 with an annual payroll estimated around $225 million. It is pro­jected that the plant will create an additional 5,000 spinoff jobs and pump $700 million each year into the local economy. 
Ed Bee, director of economic development at the Oklahoma City Chamber of Commerce, said, "We're talking about a major market here that will be created for companies that want to deal with the aerospace companies." 
Others agree, as recent efforts to land the plant show. 
The Oklahoma Legislature gave United a varied tax pack­age last month, including $8 million in tax incentives. They include sales tax exemptions for computer sales, construction materials and spare parts. 
The legislation also allowed the Oklahoma County Commissioners to set a county sales tax election for Feb. 26. The question proposes a 1-cent county sales tax for 33 months to subsidize construction for the facility. 
Most other locations have de­veloped their own tax-incentive packages. 
Bee said Oklahoma City's three major competitors are Denver, Dulles Airport in northern Virginia and Cincinnati. 
"Dulles and Denver are hub cities for United," Bee said. "That gives them a built in cost advantage." 
If United chooses a non-hub location, it will have to ferry planes in for maintenance without passengers, a drain on potential revenue, Bee said. There also are fuel costs, which Hopkins said almost doubled for United in the final quarter of 1990 compared to the final quarter of 1989. 
The Denver City Council re­cently voted to exempt. the pro­posed plant from sales, use and head taxes. The Colorado Legislature also is considering laws that would exempt United from state sales tax. 
"There's a lot of aviation me­chanics here," said Denver's Gougeon. "It's better to main­tain them where they are than where they're not." 
Dulles International Airport in Loudoun County, Va., serves Washington, D.C., and northern Virginia. 
Lawrence Framme Ill, state secretary of economic develop­ment, said the Virginia Legislature is considering sev­eral proposals. One would allow Loudoun County to change the way it classifies certain equipment for tax purposes. 
"The economic impact is staggering," Framme said. But, "You don't want to disclose too much about what you're doing." 

Avon designs two care packages to send to the troops in the Gulf 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. (AP) ­Five Clark County women have come up with a package that could help U.S. soldiers fight the elements in the Persian Gulf, if not the Iraqis. 
Charlotte Pop, Marilyn Glinn, Debbie llall, Hobin Stewart and Doris Bryson are all independent representatives with Avon Products Inc .. The women have designed two care packages of Avon products which they are offering to the public at cost to send to the troops. 
"The community has done so much for us, we wanted to give something back" said Bryson. 
The care packages contain 
Skin-So-Soft bath oil and towelettes, which many soldiers have requested from their families because they say it helps to ward off the desert's annoying and persistent sand fleas. 
The insect-repelling ability of Skin-So-Soft, while neither confirmed by the Food and Drug Administration nor advertised by Avon, is widely touted by gardeners and outdoors people alike. 
The representatives are offering the care packages in two sizes: For $10 you get to send two 8-ounce bottles of the bath oil and a box of 10 individually-wrapped bath oil towelettes. The $25 package contains four bottles of bath oil and four boxes of towelettes. Both prices include sales tax and shipping charges to send the packages overseas. The regular retail prices for these items are $5.99 for the bath oil and $3.69 for the towelettes. 

The women intend to send the packages to men and women from southern Indiana who are now stationed in Saudi Arabia. They will enclose a card in each package· with a supportive poem and the giver's name and address, so the soldier who receives it can have the opportunity to write in response. 
Anyone who wishes to purchase a package for a specific friend or family memb~r can provide the Avon ladies with the name and address, and they will ship it. Otherwise, they will use a list of names they have compiled from local families. 
Businesses, schools, clubs, churches and other groups can order larger packages. 
The five Avon ladies said they are foregoing all profits on the venture and are carrying out the project on their own time. Should their shipping costs turn out to be less than they have calculated, they said they plan to use any leftover funds to include Avon Sun Seekers lip balm and lotion in the packages. 
The five Avon reps have a combined total of 60 years of selling experience with Avon. Their manager, Sharon Wright, said their 1990 sales totaled nearly $250,000. 
"Due to the high volume of our sales, we are able to offer these packages at a lower cost than other representatives would," Glinn said. 
They said they got the idea to help the troops with Avon products after the company sent over several million dollars' worth of useful supplies, such as deodorant, lip balm and sunscreen 
Viewpoint ) 
page 12 Monday, February 11, 1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley 'Tuthill Advertising Manager ••••.....Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager. .......•... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ..•.Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................•...• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
JI~GrW*\ 
:I~CINNATI~!{'AI~f'c91'f/l 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lack of respect prevalent in uneducated art criticism 
Dear Editor: 

After reading Florentine Hoelker's editorial (The Observer, Feb. 4). we are not about to "ignite (ourselves) in rage," as Mr. Hoelker might expect. We are, however, in­clined to express our disap­pointment with the appearance of yet another uneducated ar­ticle in The Observer concern­ing art. 
In his article, Mr. Hoelker refers to abstract impression­ism, the creation of an atmo­sphere; however, the work is better described as abstract expressionism, the use of a gestural motion as expression. One should at least be sure of the terminology of a subject be­fore attempting to write about it. 
Mr. Hoelker's elephant story is perhaps charming, but it provides no support for his ar­gument. The favorable opinions of the abstract paintings are given by "museum visitors" who may know very little about art; these were not confused art historians. In fact, the simple description of a "favorable re­sponse" makes one wonder if the museum visitors addressed the issue of art or that of aes­thetics. A critical discussion of art or art theory requires more than a "favorable response"; a question of aesthetics, opinion or taste does not. The two are related; however, they should not be confused. The distinction holds true in all the arts: dance, theater, cinema, literature and visual arts. 
Although Mr. Hoelker may feel that his taste was "delightfully disregarded," his comments concerning art in the faculty show were rude. They were ignorant responses not indicative of an open mind. Not only were the comments disre­spectful, but the name of the sculptor is Father Collins, not Father Austin. Even random nerve firings in the brain might suggest that Father Collins' 14 cross-like sculptures around the altar were referencing the stations of the cross. The Painkiller Quilt by Barbara Peterson (not "artist unknown") is not a "study in idiocy," but, rather, is indicative of a good sense of humor. Aftet all, aren't pain killers used to cover up pain? As a reporter, Mr. Hoelker ought to have enough respect for his journalistic integrity to get the facts correct; after all, each piece was clearly labelled with the artist's name and title, as were all pieces in the show. 
We would suggest that in the future, Mr. Hoelker educate himself about a subject before writing an article. Notre Dame has a fine liberal arts program; there are myriad opportunities for enlightenment. 
Lisa Schiffgens Lyons Hall Damian Shiner Flanner Hall Tricia Brienza Off-campus Feb. 5, 1991 

Commentary required more thought 
Dear Editor: 
I'd like to respond to Florentine Hoelker's article "Elephant art could help out Snite artists" (The Observer, Feb. 4). I'm writing this as an art educator, who would like to correct some wrong information and misunderstanding, rather than a member of the Snite Museum. The article was hostile and shows the writer's closed mind when appraising contemporary art. 
First of all, Hoelker's Inside Column begins with the story of Ruby, an elephant at the Phoenix Zoo, who paints in an abstract expressionist style with the aid of zoo caretakers who give her brushes with paint dipped on them. As she "sweeps her trunk to and fro," a painting . is created. I ask you, how could this help the Snite Museum of Art and the Notre Dame Art Department? This implication is truly not called for. 
By the way, Ruby is not a new phenomenon in the art world; cows' tails have also "painted." Paint thrown in front of electric fans has also made something that may, to some, appear to resemble contemporary art. Hoelker's statement, "As if ab­stract paintings require more skill than an elephant pos­sesses," again demonstrates an 
DOONESBURY 
intolerance toward art that is not recognizable or decorative and nice. 
The writer is not alone in feeling that such modern work certainly may be created by children with no studio experience-or by an animal. Ruby has not made the decision of which colors to use, and she does not possess the power or intellect to decide when the "painting" is finished. The caretakers just stop handing the brushes to her trunk. A sincere and real artist uses his/her years of work experience and judgement to reach the climac­tic moment when a work of art is completed. Anyway, enough of Ruby, whose works I'd be curious to see. 
Hoelker's article demonstrates that the national trend of criticizing and censoring art is much alive at Notre Dame. The writer does not even give the proper titles to the metal sculptures of Austin Collins, and his sarcastic nicknames for Collins' work express more hostility and misunderstanding. 
Also, Hoelker states that the artist who made the Painkiller Quilt is "thankfully unknown." It was very unnecessary to attack Barbara Peterson, a fine fiber artist. Please read the labels more carefully, if even at all! 

Hoelker's opinion here shows a lack of interest in the development of art; the quilt in­corporates elements of Pop Art and graffiti in a most clever way. Also, quilts have histori­cally been a medium for women artists as a means of both cul­tural and personal expression. For Hoelker to simply dismiss this particular work is too easy. 
Yes, it is easy and sometimes chic to be critical of what we cannot appreciate. I would hope that any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student would be sensitive enough not to fall into this trap. I'm not asking Mr. Hoelker and the student body to convert to modernism. I'm asking for a more open-minded view of things that requires more than an instant glance. Also, criticize the Notre Dame art community when it deserves it. 
The Annual Faculty exhibition continues through Sunday, March 17, as does Austin Collins: One Man Show. I per­sonally invite everyone to come view these exhibitions and cele­brate the diversity of images, techniques and media. Decide for yourselves. 
John J. Shields 
Education Coordinator 
The Snite Museum of Art 
Feb.6,1991 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AT /730 I.A5T NI6HT, IAJt Rtatvw A J/NlA(£6 6·2 CONFIRMATION 
FROM A FRIJNTUN& TOG OF THt PAKTIAL-a6RAOAT!ON OF AN M-60-MOUNTW HMMIAIV Pa<SONNU A5.5tT. 
/ 

'Sometimes, I feel the past and the future pressing so hard on either side that there's no room for the present at all.' 
Evelyn Waugh 

-
Viewpoint
Monday, February 11, 1991 page 13 
Cultural misunderstandings divide Americans, Arabs 
The first and most important step in waging a war is to know your enemy. Even with all our advaneed technology, the Bush 
Administration,  and  the  
Arneriean  people, have  ne­ 
glneted to do just that.  

Understanding the eulture of our advllrsaries may be more valuable in war than under­standing their weapons sys­tems. 
My generation's oarliest polit­ieal memories stern from the Middle East, where Iran was holding American hostages. Now. as we form our political beliefs, our attention is once again direett~d towards that re­gion. The result has been a w~neration of Americans grow­ing up to believe that all Arabs are irrational and dangArous. It is beeoming instinctual for us to fpar Arabs, as it is instinctual for Arabs to filar Americans. 
Perhaps the eause of all the confliet over the years is that 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
our two cultures cannot com­prehend one another and, still worse, that we have not even made an effort to do so. We maintain that Arab nations are crazy, and they believe that the American people are imperial­ists and gluttons. But what more are they expected to be­lieve when they see a country with less than live percent of the world's population using over 25 percent of its oil? 
The Bush Administration ne­glected to take advantage of the situation at the outset of the crisis. Few figures in history have lent themselves so readily to the role of "bad guy" as did Saddam Hussein. The U.S. had nearly all the Arab nations on their side before the war. But now, as allied bombs turn Iraqi and Kuwaiti soil into a wasteland, Arab sentiment is changing. 
We may have the verbal sup­port of some Arab leaders, but 

By Michael Masone 
Guest Columnist 
the Islamic population feels as if it is being beaten by the West. This dictator, once a clear-cut villain, now has many Arabs believing he is engaged in a struggle for all Arabs against the Western imperialists. When asked if he felt Iran would en­ter the war on his side after their own eight-year war, Hussein said, "Both countries now regard the present war as a battle between faith and the infidel." 
This is a people who place pi­ety above politics, culture above coalition. The Bush Administration did not give Hussein ample time to make himself look foolish. Rather than letting the Iraqis "rot on the vine" and destroy them­selves from within, Bush has chosen to snap the limb off the tree with brute force and may have given in to the very thing he sought to oppose: aggres­sion. 
Bush sought to establish a "new world order" after the Cold War ended, but, instead, he set a frightening precedent. In dealing with another re­spected head of state, he helped set a deadline for diplomacy like a silly school yard threat, and then, at the last moment, he sent a threatening letter through a diplomat in hopes of peace. 
When he could have looked like a visionary in international relations by allowing the sanc­tions to starve Iraq into leaving Kuwait, he instead resorted to outdated policy decisions. Barbaric aggression cannot stand, and yet it cannot be beaten barbarically. 
The solution to this crisis is not in abandoning our troops in the desert, for they are merely following orders. In fact, there may be no solution short of further bloodshed. But the Gulf War can transform this notion of a "new world order" from theory into practice if we realize from where it is that our conflicts arise. 
Thousands of people, soldiers and civilians alike, face death because of policy decisions made by leaders who do not understand one another. In the same way Americans and Soviets were suspicious of each other during the Cold War, so now Americans and Arabs stand in the Gulf. 
More than a language divides us-it is a way of life. Whieh one, if any, is correct, I simply do not know. After all, I'm only an American. 
Michael Masone is in the Freshman Year ofStudies 

Students should respond to class sizes referendum 
Dear Editor: voting for students who repre­
During our Administration, sent your beliefs. Attending the some of our decisions have Student Body President/Vice been met with controversy. We President debate will provide understand that that is a you with the best mnans for de­normal part of any tnrmining the candidates' posi­Administration. However, one tions on the important issues. comment which particularly We urge you to come and ques­
Call for prayer day shows shallowness 
bothered us was, "you made the tion the candidates tonight at 7 decision without consulting the p.m. in the Notre Dame HoornDear Editor: further persuade God that he is Arabia. 
student body." It is impossible on the second floor ofI am surpris1~d that my meent doing the right thing? Certainly And another question: Why for the Student Body President Lafortune.
lettnr has evoked such God doesn't need to be Sunday? If Bush had intended 
and Vice President to consult Robert F. Pasin
vehnrnent responses. I didn't reminded that it is intrinsic to to be a day of prayer for people the student body on every deci­Student Body President think ptwple would feel so the divine nature to guide and of all creeds, then why not pick sion they make. Fred Tombar Ill threatened by my absurd protect earthly agencies who some neutral day of the week? 
However, you may best insure Student Body Vice-President suggnstions concArning oppose evil. Then again, why not Saturday, that your voice will be heard by Feb.6,1991
Ameriean religious imperialism I would not have objected so since our compatriots in Israel that they would waste even strongly had our President are closer to the front and Cathoiic mass lacks friendly mom rwwspaper space refuting asked for a day of corporate possibly more in need of divine them. But since it seems that reflection before making his aid than we on our safe shores? 
atmosphere of Methodists 
some readers have taken an fateful dncision, but now the Or why not Friday, the Islamic internst in my "conspiracy gesture appears to me only as a day of congregational prayer? Dear Editor: the first time in my life, I expH­theory," I'd likn to toss out a few shallow political maneuver Shouldn't American Muslims be I am a graduate student in rienced sorrow which is born of mom noxious tidbits. intended to bolster the already granted a public opportunity to Notre Dame's liturgical studies a Church divided. 
overwhelming support for raise their supplications for the program. For the past three When I attended Mass at a Why did our self-appointed American intervention in the success of our righteous cause Sundays I have been attending campus residence hall later high priest declare last Sunday, Gulf and to quell the shouts of and the protection of our allied the 11 a.m. service at South that evening, the difference be­Feb. 3. a national day of prayer peace protestors who also like service women and men? Bend's First United Methodist tween the Catholic community for the allind forces in the Gulf? to appeal for their religious Church as part of an gathered there and the If Bush were already convinced convictions. I am not comforted Christian Dupont observation project for one of Methodist community was ob­of the morality of his war, then when I think of my cousin in Off-campus my classes. For the most part, vious and disturbing. No one why should h11 b11 eoncernnd to Israel and my friends in Saudi Feb.5,1991 this has been a very positive greeted me or welcomed me experience for me, both aca­when I entered the chapel.Howard women choose different intellectual pursuits demically and spiritually. Worst of all, before communion. Last Sunday (Feb. 3). exactly three people shared the
Dear Editor: chose not to take part in this Howard will again have a team. 
however, my liturgical Sign of Peace with me; one wasSuzannn FitzGerald and opportunity. However, we also appreciate experiences left me angry and the presiding priest. All of the Kathryn C. Pirrotta of the As for the women of Howard, respect for the decisions we disappointed. When I compare other members of thisIceberg D11bates Standing many of us pursue intellectual made and a refrain from criti­the Methodist service I attended "community" clearly ignoredCommittee addressed their opportunities outside the class­cism. 
in the morning to the residence me amid the sea of hugs andrather harsh lntter (The room. We are not necessarily Finally, I think it is "especially ­
hall Mass I attended later that handshakes they shared withObserver, Jan. 29) to the wrong "content with reticence, rather disheartening to note that in night, I find many reasons not those in the chapel they already studnnts. The women of Farley, th~tn discussion." We certainly this, the Year of Women," two to feel very happy to be a knew as their friends. 
Howard, Pasquerilla West and meant no disrespect to the Notre Dame women felt it Catholic. Later, as I walked forward toWalsh are cnrtainly no worse Standing Committee or Our necessary to publicly condemn Each Sunday that I visited this receive communion I thought tofor their la<'.k of participation in Lady by not choosing the another group of women in this Methodist community, I was myself, "I should have reeeivedthe debate than the other Iceberg Debates as one of them. manner. 
met at the door by greeters communion at the Methodist
thousands of students on this We thank the committee for Christina Mueller 
who welcomed me to their church." For there, in a churchcampus, women and men who, providing this excellent op­Howard Hall community. Once I was inside that I did not e:ven call my own,for one reason or anothnr, also portunity. Perhaps next year Feb.4,1991 
the church worship area, nu­I felt welcome. At the Catholic merous members of the con­Mass. I felt more like an ampu­
Farley residents engage in Debates with other teams 
gregation asked my name, in­tated limb of the Body of Christ. Dear Editor: In addition, we feel that it was University has to offer. It is troduced themselves, welcomed In fact, after three Sundays at 
As n~presentatives of Farlny inappropriate to insinuate that highly presumptuous of the au­me warmly and invited me to the Methodist church, I felt llall, we would like to respond the absence of "Farley Hall" thors of this letter to consider return. Last Sunday, a family I more welcome there than I to the artidn regarding our ap­was particularly shameful the Iceberg Debates the intel­had met the week before even have at any Mass I've attended parnnt lack of involvement in during the Year of Women. We lectual yardstick of the invited me to sit with them for since I arrived at Notre Dame this y11ar's leeberg Debates (The think that it is purely coineiden­University. The women of the service. last June. 
-
Observnr, Feb. 4). We in Farley tal that those dorms not form­Farley Hall have always-and Unlike the previous two I had There is a reason why I do llall have a great deal of ing teams were women's resi­will continue to have-a great attended, last Sunday's service not name the residence hall respect for the Debates and dence halls. We believe that in impact of every aspect of life at included a celebration of where I went to Mass last considnr them a worthwhile raising this issue, the authors of Notre Dame. Eucharist. Although the pastor Sunday. l hope that all resi­pursuit. The published letter, the letter are furthering Martha Wendel invited all present to participate dence hall communities will howHV!lr, failed to mention that stereotypes that this Year was Farley Co-President in communion, I did not. Even look at the way they treat Farlt1y r11sidents are participat­supposed to lay to rest. 1989-90 though I felt totally welcomed strangers at their liturgies and ing in this year's debates on We are very proud of our Barbara Healy by that community, I believe ask themselves if they are truly other t11ams. A dorm. as we see residents' involvement not only Lynn Mordan that my sharing in the being Catholic. it, is not simply a building with in the Iceberg Debates, but also Farley Co-Presidents sacrament would imply a com­Maria Anne Cataldo a name engrav11d on it, but the in endeavors that span the full 1990-91 munion which does not truly Off-campus people who reside within it. range of activities which this Feb.4,1991 exist between the churches. For Feb.4,1991 
-
• ~ ' t 1 • 
-
Accent 
page 14 Monday, February 11, 1991 

Time to bury the 'dead past' 
Blacks Set Agenda A Fl in the Milk Bottle
Y .,..o\fZ
\\CIV 

-

On White On Black 

Black Maken
emands 
Black R 
esponse tart must be made 
to a White .

Un,vers 
BY YOLANDA KNIGHT 
Accent Writer 
"Notre Dame, a university dedicated to the perpetuation of a dead past-social traditions-and the promotion of educated ignorance of the 'real' world, is a travesty of human worth and dignity to any black student. ..[lt is] a university where conservatism, rigidities in personalities, educated ignorance, and the defensiveness against reality are the coveted standard. For too long Notre Dame has existed on a fantasized reality." 
These are the words of George Horn, an African­American student who attended Notre Dame in 1969. In his article entitled "Destroying a Distortion," he expressed the alienation shared by many African American students attending the University during the '60s. In his March 21, 1969 article in "Scholastic," he describes the Notre Dame reality as one which emphasizes remoteness, separatism, middle-classism, unthinking, pep-rally-go-number-one Notre Dame entities." According to Horn, "Notre Dame has
-nothing to offer the black students in the way of self­identification," and nothing to offer the white student in the area of real education of the world's non­European cultures. 
Horn was not alone in his view of the "Notre Dame reality." Don Wycliff also reflects on his Notre Dame experience. "Four years of football and pep rallies and homecomings and Mardi Gras and mixers; four years of courses in Thomistic and Arisotelian philosophy and Catholic theology and 20th century English writers. And through it all you are outside of everything because you are Black and the total effect of Notre Dame is to say: 'if you're Black, stay back.' " 
Wycliff also illustrates alienation and the expectation of assimilation on the part of the administration with regard to the curriculum. He says that "Notre Dame does not exert itself to help the Black student become confident of himself and his race. In its curriculum, Africa is treated, for the most part, as if it did not exist; Afro Americans before 1954 are seldom heard of. (In that year black people became a 'contemporary problem' so that they now merit some attention.) 
In summation, Wycliff expressed the struggle of
-
several black students in the 1960s to maintain pride in their identity while attending a predominantly white, Catholic University, which, while it purports to be an institution of higher learning, tolerates racist comments and neglects the need to substantially educate, not only Black but all students in the reality of cultural diversity and equality of worth. 
On Tuesday, November 26, 1968, the Afro-American society presented a list of demands to former University President Theodore Hesburgh,C.S.C., requesting a written guarantee that specific steps were being taken to comply with the following demands: 1) A Black Scholarship Fund, 2) Black recruiters, employed full time by the admissions department, 3) An increase in Black student enrollment to ten percent by 1972, 4) Black Counsellors, 5) Blacks in supervisory positions, 6) Increase in Black faculty, (at the time there were only two) 7) Courses in black culture, 8) The establishment of an eight week tutorial program. 
The students requested that these demands be adequately addressed by 5:00 p.m. on Fri., Dec. 6, otherwise they would take steps to express their dis­content. On Thursday, December 5, the day before the deadline, it was reported that Hesburgh appointed an ad hoc committee of six faculty members, and two students to find solutions to their demands. However, by March, the feeling among many black students according to Dave Krashna, was that "the committee is moving slowly and the black students believe that it can be accelerated." 
Nearly two decades later, in the spring of 1987, another committee was formed by Provost Timothy O'Meara to advise him on strategies to enhance the life of Minority undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Notre Dame. The recommendations of the committee included: "1) A commitment to increase minority presence at the University among undergraduate students (Black 6%, Hispanic 6%, and Native American 1% over the next five years), faculty and administration. 
2) The commitment to a stable and competitive financial aid plan for minority students over a four year-period. 3) It is recommended that the University makes every effort to ensure that minorities are brought into the active pool of candidates for new faculty positions and for the appointment of black scholars. 4) A new and comprehensive effort to ensure that social life on campus become more inviting for minorities. 5) A serious program to educate the majority-faculty, staff, and students, alike-to become more sensitive to cultural differences among students and to promote an en­vironment free of any kind of discrimination. 
On February 22, 1988 Father Edward Malloy, President of the University presented a written comprehensive plan to implement the goals set forth by the committee appointed by Provost Timothy O'Meara. This plan primarily entailed efforts to increase and retain more minority students and faculty. Students have yet to see any tangible evidence that the University is making any progress toward these recommendations. 
The climate of the University of Notre Dame in the 1960's is quite similar to that of today. Although there has been an increase in black student enroll­ment from 70 in 1969 to 346 in 1991 they continue to experience the constant bombardment by the predominant culture and are left with little or rio social, cultural, nor historical point of reference. This point is evident in the fact that in two decades, no real progress has been made toward diversifying Notre Dame's campus. 
As a result of the lack of progress, minority students felt that it was necessary to form the coalition of Students United for Respect to realize the commitment that the University has made but still fails to execute. Their demands include the following issues. The number of Black faculty members in two decades has increased from 2 to 6. Minority faculty overall totals only 1%. Also, there is no policy or plan to effectively deal with or cure the ill of racism that persists at Notre Dame. 
Each year we lose a significant number of minority students due to a lack of financial assistance. There is still no substantive method of educating the majority of students about the reality of the world's situation. The white "majority" on this campus makes up roughly 20% of the world's population, yet the University chooses to ignore the historical contributions of the other 80%. 
The words of former Black Notre Dame students echo through two decades to the present situation: "The Black [student] wants to know himself historically, politically, and socially." The present climate of Notre Dame stifles this knowledge, not only among Black students, but among all minorities and promotes cultural ignorance and antagonism on the part of the white majority. "These attitudes must be eradicated in the same way in which they were built, 
i.e. by education." If Notre Dame truly wishes to be respected as a Christian university, in the true sense of the words, it has the responsibility to promote real education and justice. 
The challenge to the University is to purge itself of its neurotic arrogance and to finally, after two decades of reverberations, listen to those who live the experience that they know nothing about. The University is called to produce concrete results before it loses its credibility as an institution of higher learning. As in the words of James Baldwin, "Whoever debases others, is debasing himself." 
~~-~ 
-----.l 
nday, February 11, 1991 
15 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classllleds Is 3p.m. All 
classltieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

-HELPI HELPI HELPI I need 1 Attention all KATHLEEN WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK I need a couple of INDIGO GIRLS Indigo girls ticket AURIGEMMA worshippers: Yes, it's '911 CANCUN FROM $459. Wiser-tickets lor some out of town Call Crissy true. Kath's having a birthday, and JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON'T Thanks for everything these past 
NOTICES guests-if anyone has any extras x2968 it's TODAYIII So get off your MISS THE FUN AND SUN! CALL few weeks-the '1hank-you" letter, l,m sure they'll pay generously lor beanbags and call her at X4081. 1-800-427-7710. Keenan Review tics, etc. Your them I Thanks and Happy generosity will be remembered! Valentine's Day! Call Kelly at 273-Guess Who I 9442 (evenings are best!) ADOPTION: Christian couple 
NY TIMES, used and new books Two Holy Cross Associates seeks to adopt white infant. Pandora's Books 233-2342 returned from Chile would like to Financially secure home In -You either quest all or wallow in corner of ND ave. & Howard Wanted N.K.O.T.B tickets for April 7. share their experience with suburban area. Expenses paid. none... 1 0-5:30 everyday I am looking lor a ride to anywhere Special birthday gift. Please call interested people: Legal/confidential. Answer our ad 
in Virginia lor Spring Break (219) 465-0101. Center for Social Concerns -and answer our prayers. Please call Schnarf it. (preferably Charlottesville or close Tuesday, Feb. 12, 7:00pm Harry and Melody collect at (219) Schnarlie
LOST/FOUND 
to) Will help with expenses and 259-0585 any time. driving I Nancy 284-5082 Help me outlllll EDITORIAL CARTOONISTS sought Ne Na Nu Na -a ha ha. 
I need two on a free-lance basis by local dally FOUND: Pair of gloves In 127 newspaper. Interest in local and FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Nieuland. Call x4530. INDIGO GIRLS state news a must. Fee negotiable. CALLING VANESSA 2729305 Keri ,RA of $B-the utility function 
BE ON T.V. many needed lor To apply, send three cartoons and the MRS curve just aren't 
commercials. Now hiring all ages. Tickets. Will pay dealing with local issues to: NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX important in the scope of life-Jacq. FOUND· Scarf in front of Library. For casting Info. Call $$$$ call Dave at TRIBUNE BOX F-25 REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 DAYS Call x4530. (615) 799-7111 Ext. T-695. x3243 SOUTH BEND, IN 46626 WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5 OFF 
WITH ND/SMC ID. 

Student Wanted: Make $2000.00 ON SA 23, PAST IRONWOOD. HELP I this semester selling t-shirts and HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY DAN CALL 277-6245. II anyone happened to pick up a sweatshirts to lraternites and SWIATEK! RETAILING textbook from 208 sororlt!es., Southern Marketing SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA I 
(PERSONALS]
Cushing could you please return It 800-444-2708. Fun in the sun on the beach in our to me? I have a test soon I Thanks! '''EXPO ROMA'" NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated Please call Tom at '2259 A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 "*EXPO ROMA*** AAA excellent. Call now 1-904-252­
FOR RENT 

DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & *"EXPOROMA"* 1412. 
FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA Come experience the beauty of •••• LOST •••• BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING the art and architecture of Rome, "TAKE OFF FOR ADVENTURE! GOLD LINK BRACELET -looks like 219-291-7153. BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. as presented by 4th-year Over 50,000 positions through 200+ (XoXoXoX)-IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd architecture majors. listings in National Parks, FL LIBRARY, OR ANYWHERE ON HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to FEB. 14-FEB. 23 at the School of study/teach abroad, CAMPUS. campus. $150/month. Call Paul PREGNANT? Loving, happily­Architecture Bldg. volunteer/service, ski resorts, IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. 287-2159. married professional couple wishing ***EXPO ROMA*** performance, cruise lines. Send 
to adopt. We promise your child lots ***EXPO ROMA*** $4.95 + $1 S&H to Renaissance 3 Bedroom Homes. of love, security, strong religious ***EXPO ROMA*** Resources, Box 652, Driggs, ID Found: -lady's ring at ACC Walk to campus. affiliation, & a lifetime of happiness 83422;" before break 232-3616 including international -scapular outside travel/educational/& living Howard Ramada Inn of Elkhart, opportunities. We enjoy skiing, WILD HEARTIII We have what it takes to make your 
Call Dan @1772 to Identify Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms hiking, camping, and visits with THANKS FOR MAKING ME Valentine happy I for family and friends. M!!dical, legal, LAUGH WHEN I NEEDED MOST. Graduation weekend. Located at counseling, and living expenses YOU ARE A JOY! THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND '"'"''129* 
@@@@HELPI HELPI Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart possible. Call COLLECT 0-317-253-Lower Level LaFortune 
STEAMBOAT ''0"' 196*
HELPI@@@@ (12 miles from South Bend) 8838, Extension 567 and let us help I'll get the last laugh( at you)ll M-F 12-5 LOST A SINGLE PERAL EARRING Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 you. UPS Service Daily 
FORT LAUDERDALE 

''""'''~7*
SOMETIME LAST WEEK. (9mm)l deposit per room. Send letter with If found please call Beth deposit to 3011 CLUB 23 
PANAMA CITY BEACH fmmSf21J* 
at #2467111 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, RIDE NEEDED. To Terre Haute Photography for Formals-Halls­
CORPUS CHRISTl I

IN 46514. Daily Specials. New addition: or vicinity(IU, Indy ...) 2/15. Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS The Coffee House Please call Emily 284-5086 Photography at 234-8539. 
MUSTANG ISLAND from SfDB* 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD Bring your books and come 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,,om Sff2 *
WANTED NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND study, or just come socialize. FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Open daily 4pm-3am. Need ride to Ll OR AREA for 
DONT WIIIT TIL IT'S TOO UITE 2773097 Hey Bobby, "BANGIII" SB Can leave 3!7.$$ call2621 
·CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 

SUMMER JOBS FREEDOM I Rent the best houses. 
1·800·!21·5911 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER Prime locations. 233-Peace, Love and FiLA I I need a ride to Cleveland/JCU CHILDREN'S 9947. the weekend of the 15th. Will CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP CLUB 23 pay gas, tolls. Call Erin 1715. SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, Top 5 Reasons to wish Shannon TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST Affordable 5,4,2 bedrm. homes lor Daily Specials. New addition: McCarthy a happy birthday: STOP THE WAR HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE '91-'92. Beach The Coffee House She's 9-TEEN. wear white arm bands FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: V-ball ct., washer/dryer, Bring your books and come It's Birthday Week. ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, safe area. 288-5653 or study, or just come socialize. She lives w/LW & BB and cleans up BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, 234-3831 Open daily 4pm-3am. their mess. SUPPORT THE TROOPS DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, Todd makes great cheescake. BRING THEM HOME NOW FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, She still hasn't found the physical wear white arm bands 
.......................................................................................................................................
GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, Furnished bedroom in Turtle Creek forms. {,,_,,,, ,... HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, town house. CLUB 23 ~ ~
Jeff Burgfechtel's
JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, IN MOURNING OF THE NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, Available immediately! Daily Specials. New addition: AnTostal '91 proudly presents: VICTIMS OF WAR ~ 3rd Annual ~ PIANO, ROCKETRY, The Coffee House wear white arm bands 
~ Spring Break Party ~ 
ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, Call Tim @ X2506 Bring your books and come THE BAR® 
~ ~ 
SAILBOARDING, SAILING, study, or just come socialize. 
~Daytona Beach or South ~ 
SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, Open daily 4pm-3am. This wacky and zany AnTostallund­JESTER, live at Club 23, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. raiser can earn you a VCR, a dozen Feb. 14th. ~ Padre Island. For INFO ~nd ~ DROP BY FOR INFORMAL Large house lor rent, June 1st. pizzas to Barnaby's, or a $50 gift P.S. We'll start after the 
~LAST CHANCE ~ ~ 
INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, FEB. Suitable lor 5. Prefers graduate CLUB 23 certificate to the ND Bookstore. Indigo Girls. 
~s~n~p ~ 
21, IN LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY students. For info call 232-4412. Every time you purchase the 3oz. P.P.S. Objects in mirror are ~ ~ 
~ Tues., Feb. 12 ~ 
ROOM AND Daily Specials. New addition: Catherine Eisner chocolate bar larger than they appear! SORIN ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. Nancy Humbargan FOUR The Coffee House (Almond or Crunch) lor $1 from an ~ Montegomery Theater ~ BEDROOMS -TWO BATHS Bring your books and come AnTostal '91 Rep you increase your 
~LaFortune 7pm ~ 

HOUSE, AVAILABLE AUGUST 1. study, or just come socialize. chances of winning a Golden 
~or Call Jenn 284-5087 ~ 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL Open daily 4pm-3am. Ticket® that could win you one of It was Susan Dognaux's 21st, all 
~ ~ 
CHILDREN'S CAMPS­234-9364. these valuable prizes. order was abolished, and deep ......................................................................................................................,,,,,,,,,,,;.: NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN drinking became the rule. WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN CLUB 23 But wait I There's yet another way Happy belated birthday, THE NORTHEAST. GOOD FOR SALE to win I By simply answering Susan I Hope your weekend was SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, Daily Specials. New addition: correctly the 3 daily "Charlie and the reckless I Have a great yearl TRAVEL EXPENSE. DROP BY GIBSON EPIPHONE The Coffee House Chocolate Factory" Questions on a Love, Diane and Jakki FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEW BASS GUITAR Bring your books and come sheet of paper along with your ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN BRAND NEW, GREAT ACTION! study, or just come socialize. name and phone# and putting it in LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM BEST OFFER. Open daily 4pm-3am. THE BOX® at the SUB AND SORIN Receptionist's desk on the 2nd floor CHRISTOPHER B., ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. CALL EDDIE@ 272-8198 of LaFortune or 1st floor Hagar Hall Good luck at I.U.I 
(SMC) by 5 p.m. (one entery per I'm thinking of you -as always. 
FOR SALE : Sound System lor bar VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS person per day) you will be entered XOXOXO, SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER band. In Good Shape. VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS into a drawing for a hundred dollar DLD CHILDREN'S CAMPS­Reasonable Price. Call: bill (that's $100)1 NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN Kevin X3498 or John X1166. It's not too early to submit your WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO classifieds for Valentine's Day. GOOD LUCKI SHELLEY, SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL Don't wait until the last minute­Thank you for 2 of the happiest POOL AND LAKES IN THE FOR SALE: come in anytime SOON. Mr. AnTostal years of my life. You are such an NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, Smith Corona Personal Word incredibly wonderful person and you ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL Processor (System 14) have filled my life with joy. Happy EXPENSE. DROP BY FOR AN Contains typewriter XE 6100 IT'SNEWI Anniversary and to many more in INFORMAL INTERVIEW w/dictionary; when hooked to IT'S FREEII the future. ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN monitor becomes word processor. Far Side Card Club THE QUESTIONS: I LOVEYOUII LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM 2 in 11 Buy 11 Far Side Cards and the BOB AND SORIN Interested? Staph@ 4322 12th is Freel 1) Who Is the author of Charlie and ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER the Chocolate Factory? 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE University Allied Publishers, Inc. UPS M-F 12-5 2) What was to be found in Willy seeks motivated, entreprenurial 
239-6714 Wonka's fabulous chocolate bars students interested in a campus EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK TICKETS ) Coming Soon... that caused such a stir? venture. Great resume builder, READING BOOKS AT HOME. CHEAP CARDS opportunity for very good money. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. HOW LOW CAN YOU GO? 3) Who were Willy Wonka's 3 No captal required. Call David 
INDIGO GIRLS; need 1 ticket; HOW CHEAP CAN YOU BE? competitors In the chocolate Carlock call Barb 284-5344 THEY'RE GREAT II business....IN THE BOOK? 



The Observer 

page 16 Monday, February 11, 1991 
Barkley powers East to two-point All-Star win 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Charles Barkley, a reluctant All-Star, showed no reluctance to go to the basket Sunday. 
The powerful forward for the Philadelphia 76ers, playing on a stress fracture in his left foot, won MVP honors with 17 points and 22 rebounds, leading the East to a 116-114 victory. The game was not decided until the final seconds when the West's Karl Malone was called for basket interference on a 3­point attempt by teammate Kevin Johnson. 
Barkley wanted to miss the All-Star game to rest his ailing foot and sprained ankle. But he returned to the 76ers four games before All-Star weekend, and was ordered to play by the NBA. 
''I'm thrilled you volunteered to be here," commissioner David Stern needled Barkley at the award ceremony. 
Barkley's 22 rebounds were the most of any All-Star since Wilt Chamberlain grabbed 22 in 196 7, but five short of Bob Pettit's 1962 record. 
'Tm glad I came down here," Barkley said. "My foot was hurting a little, but I hope I can come back strong in the second half of the season." 
Barkley also wanted to skip All-Star weekend a year ago to rest another injury, but he was ordered to play or risk suspen­sion then, too. 
"I had a really good time here,' Barkley said. "The didn't do anything until today. I didn't practice on Saturday." 
Barkley had 11 rebounds in each half for the East, which improved its All-Star game vic­tory margin to 27-14. 
Malone and Magic Johnson spoke good-naturedly of Barkley's injury and volatile personality. 
"I hate Charles because throws everybody out of the way and then he complains to the ref when he gets nicked," Johnson said. "That's his way. But with his rebounding, Charles set the tone for the way the game was played." 
"He has a stress fracture ­yeah, right," Malone said. "I think he was setting everybody up, that he was going to play soft." 
The game was close most of the way, with 20 lead changes. The West climbed within two points four times in the final minutes without catching up. 
Playing the first seven min­utes of the fourth quarter with forward Tom Chambers at cen­ter because of David Robinson's foul trouble, the West pulled ahead 100-95 before the East regained control with a 14-4 burst. Michael Jordan, scoreless in the third quarter following a 19-point first half, had two baskets during the rally and finished with 26 points, although he turned the ball over 10 times. 
"Charles won the MVP and I'm happy for him," Jordan said. "We deserved to win the game. Charles is certainly an all-around player. He's what I call a utility man." 
Robinson, who had four fouls at halftime, returned with 5:01 left and quickly converted a three-point play to close the West deficit to 109-107. Robinson's rebound basket off a missed free throw made it 112­110 with 2:43 to go, and the West drew within two points two more times in the final minutes. 

With the score 116-114, the West had a chance to tie the score, but Robinson threw the ball away. He then forced a jump ball as Barkley went to the basket inside, and won the tip for the West. 
After a timeout, the West worked the ball around to Kevin Johnson, whose 3-point attempt appeared to be falling short before Malone tipped the ball. The call of basket inter­ference gave the East posses­sion with 2.9 seconds left, and Jordan ran down the clock. 
"It was definitely going in," Johnson said of his 3-point at­tempt. "It was the game." 
"I probably should have left it alone, but I wasn't sure if it was going in," Malone said. "I wanted to run and hide after I did it. .. 
Robinson, Malone and Magic Johnson led the West with 16 points each, and Malone had 11 rebounds. 
Patrick Ewing had 18 points and 10 rebounds for the East. 
The West led 23-22 after a ragged, poor-shooting first quarter by both teams. Then the East, which made 32 per­cent of its shots in the first pe­riod, hit 59 percent in the sec­ond quarter for a 67-58 half­time lead. 
The East took its largest lead, 69-58, in the first minute of the second half before the West responded with a 15-4 run to tie the score 73-7 3. Malone scored the final six points of the spurt. 

The West went ahead for the first time in the second half at 79-77 on a rebound basket by Kevin Duckworth, and the lead seesawed for the rest of the third period, with the East tak­ing a 94-92 lead into the final 12 minutes. 
Players took the showtime theme of All-Star weekend to heart in the first period, mak­ing acrobatic moves to the bas­ket to no effect. The most glar­ing example was Dominique Wilkins' missed attempt of a breakaway dunk. 
ON'T ISAPPOINT YOUR 
SWEETHEART • 
It's not too late to order 
12:30 to 5:30 Mon-Sat in the basement of LaFortune. We deliver to Notre Dame,  something for  
Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Campuses. Visa/Mastercard accepted. 283-4242  ¥alentine's 9Jay.  
Tomorrow  •1s  the  last day  to  o r de r !  








Monday, February 11, 1991 
Owens 
continued from page 24 
But in the Syracuse locker room, no one talked much about Owens' heroics. Most people wanted to know about the circus surrounding the Syracuse team the past two 
"I'll answer questions about basketball," Owens said. 
lie did bite on one question, the one about how hard it was to play in front of Notre Dame's student body, a group obviously enlivened by the Syracuse situation. 
"You can' t do much about that," Owens said. "You just go out and get the ·w· and you shut them up that way." 
And it was Owens who was responsible for the stunned si­lence following Saturday's Orangemen victory. 
~...11!.. ND-SMC 
~~ ~~ STUDENTS
C:,~t\.fO~ 
18th Annual Program 

,~~ Passport Photos Available 
London Rome 
May 22-June 2 1 June 16-July 15 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland, and France Germany, and 
Switzerland 

Courses offererl 1n Al<.T, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN MEETING Wednesday, February 20 ** 6:30 pm Carroll Hall, SMC Free Pizza Past student and faculty part1c1pants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

70 ways to say "Be my Valentil).e." 
• French Vanilla • Cafo Au Lait • Amaretto Cheesecakt• • Almond Ama~tto • Apple Nut • Banana Nul • Apple Pie C'hoOO«ako • S.nanaberry • Apple Pio ala Mode • lldnanas N' C'"'am • S.rri.. N' Cream • S.rryberry • Blueberry • Blueberry CbeesKake • Cafe Amamto • Caf~ Vie-nna • Chf'eSI!'Calu~ • Chocolate • Chocolate Candy Cane • Chocolate C'ovorod Chorry • Chocnlale Coverod ('berry Cheesecake • Chocolate Covered Slrowberry • Chocolate Mini • Cl,asslc Whitf' Chocolale • E~nog • G~rman Chocolate Cake a la Modt' • Georman Chocolate Chttn«akf' • Lemon Custard • Lemonberry • Lemon ChPeSeCake • Limeberry • LimP Cooler • Mocha • Mocha Mini • Neapolitan • New Orleans Chocolate • Peach • Peachberry • P•ach ChHS«akt" • Peach~ N''C'reftm • Peanut Butter • Peanut Butter Fudge • Peppermint • Peanut Bull•r N' jelly • Pralin.. N' Cream • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Pie a Ia Mode • Raspberry ('h..,....•k• • Raspberry Fudge • Raspberry Trutne • Strawberries N' Cream • Strawberry C'h.......,..oke • Strawberry Truffle • Tropical Twlsl • SUGAR FREE NONFAT • ('hocolole • Vanilla • Swirl • NONFAT • Banana • lldnanaberry • Banana ColAda • Bananas N' Crt!am • Banana Nut • Berm~s N' Crt'am • S.rryberry • Chocolate • Chocolate Covered Strawberry • Coffee • G<-rman Chocolale Coke • Raspberry Fudgr • Strawberry • Strawbeorry Colad• • Tropical Twist • German Chocolale Cake • Ia Mode • Key Lime • Limeberry • Lime Cooler • Neapolitan • New Orleans Chocolate • Pecan r-------------Prllline • Pino~ Colada • -------------­
Buy one for Pr·~::~·r~rea; • And get your Valentine. · yours FREE! 
Bring your Valentine in for a treat and get the same size treat for yourself FREE! 
Offer excludes pints, quarts, and pies. 
Limit one per customer. Tax and Topping Not Included. 

Offer Good February 14, 15, 16, 17, Only. 
1635 Edison Rd., South Bend 

(2 blocks east of N.D. stadium) 1 
I Remember to Take Your Valentine a Pie! : 
L------------------------------------~ 
The Observer/ John Snyder 

Syracuse forward Dave Johnson (4) responded to the hostile pro-Irish crowd with obscene gestures. 
Syracuse players reinstated just in time 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
For a while, it looked as if seven of Syracuse's top stars would be kept out of Saturday's game against the Irish. 
A university investigation into possible NCAA violations prompted Syracuse officials to suspend seven players Friday, but appeal to the NCAA for immediate reinstatement. They players were reinstated late Friday and made the trip to South Bend Friday night. 
"I was just happy (the NCAA 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
boards, if you look at the stats, and our kids did what they could do, but you know Syracuse is going to make a run officials) were able to act quickly on it," said Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim. 
Had the players not been reinstated so quickly, Boeheim would have been forced to bring in three football players to supplement the three scholarship players and three walk-ons remaining on the squad. Boeheim said one football player was so excited about the possibility of playing that he had his bags packed at 7 a.m. Friday. 
The investigation has been frustrating for Boeheim and 
at you. Still, we didn't do the things we needed to win. And Billy makes a great shot at the end. You can't take anything away from him." 
Early on it looked like the Irish might take the game away from Syracuse. Notre Dame went to the locker room after a very evenly-matched first half with a 34-29 lead. Tower had 10 points before halftime. 
Notre Dame opened the sec­ond half with a 14-7 run. Kevin Ellery (16 points) hit a three­

pointer and two field goals~i;ni~a~b~o=u~t~a~n~o~th~e~r/twio~w~e~e~k~s.~"'' 
VALENTlNESAT 
-

MARIGOLD MARKET 
., A ~MANTI~ [/INNER fOR ~ fR~M ~UR GQURMEl TAKf-OVT 
"FE$'TIVE DESSERTS " MRS. PRINDABLE'$ APPlES 'f fiNE ~HOW LATE$ 
'I 

GRAPE~ ClEVELAND. 272• \922 
his players. 
"For the players it's been a very difficult situation," Boeheim said. "These are 18-, 19-, and 20-year-old kids going through intense questioning and still trying to go to school." 
The crowd at the Joyce ACC was harsh with the Syracuse players, especially forward David Johnson, who had been disciplined earlier for having improper sexual relations with a young girl. Johnson responded by gesturing obscenely when the game was over. 
the paint to help the Irish to a 48-36 lead with 15:49 to play. But Syracuse began to press the Irish, and the Orangemen finally took the lead at 62-61 with 4:15 to play. That set up the no-call on Singleton's drive, and eventually sent Notre Dame down to defeat. 
"Our players have a tremen­dous amount of heart in late-game situations," Boeheim said. "Different guys have made big plays for us. I had no (preseason) expectations for this team to get to 20 wins for 


page 18 
UNLV looks unbeatable after victory 
(AP)-UNLV is still unbeaten, going on unbeatable. 
On Sunday, the top-ranked Runnin' Rebels won their 31st straight game, handing No. 2 Arkansas a convincing 112-105 loss at Fayetteville, Ark. 
If there were questions about how well UNLV would do against a top-notch opponent, on the road, they were all an­swered. 
"They're a great team with great talent. They need to go to the NBA," Arkansas center Oliver Miller said. 
Arkansas (23-2) had won 20 in a row and led 50-46 at half­time, but UNLV (20-0) started the second half with a 16-2 run that gave the Rebels a 62-52 lead with 16:19 to play. 
UNLV is trying to become the first team go to through a sea­son unbeaten since Indiana in 1975-76 and the first to win consecutive national champi­onships since UCLA in 1972 and '73. 
"You never see teams that play great defense run, and teams that run usually play soft defense," UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian said. "This team is so focused and so tough men­tally. These guys go both ways and they do it for 40 minutes." 
Arkansas closed to 66-61 with 14:27 to play, but the Runnin' Rebels scored nine straight points and forced the Razorbacks to use the last of their timeouts with 12:45 left. 
UNLV extended the lead to 98-75 with 6:23 left, then coasted as Arkansas whittled away with too little time left to make a difference. 
"Once we got the momentum back, the game was already over," Todd Day of Arkansas said. "They showed they are No. 1 today. Defensively, they are one of the best teams I've ever played against." 
Stacey Augmon led all scorers with 31 points for UNLV. Day led the Razorbacks with 26. 
No. 4 Indiana 81, Purdue 63 
Calbert Cheaney scored 18 points to go over the 1,000­point career mark in his sophomore season for Indiana (22-2). Cheaney had two bas­kets, and Pat Graham and Eric Anderson each added two points to push Indiana's lead to 54-43 with 9:27 left. The Hoosiers led by no fewer than 
The Observer 


Vols 
continued from page 24 
Uebscher said. 

Notre Dame controlled the first 15 minutes of the contest. The Irish handled Tennessee's pressure defense well, and sev­eral times pushed the lead up to six, the last time at 30-24 with 7:50 left in the half. 
"We did not do -a good job with our ball pressure in the first half," Volunteer coach Pat Summitt said. "Notre Dame is well-disciplined in the halfcourt offense. They were very confi­dent offensively, spreading us out and using ball reversal well." 
Tennessee took the lead for good 3:38 before halftime 37­
35. The Volunteers slapped a press on Notre Dame which surprised the Irish, quickly producing a steal and an Irish timeout. 
In the second half, the press became more of a factor in the game. Whenever Notre Dame threatened, the Volunteers' full­court pressure usually pro­duced a turnover to stall the Irish drive. 
"The press was a key to the game," McGraw said. "We ex­pected it, but we didn't handle it well." 
"The difference in our defen­sive effort in the first and sec­
AP Photo 
ond halves was like night and day," Summitt said. 
Grant Hill and the Duke Blue Devils rolled to an 88-70 victory over LSU 
six points the rest of the way. Purdue had 23 turnovers. 
No. 5 Arizona 105, No. 14 UCLA 94, OT 
Chris Mills' basket at the buzzer put Arizona into over­time and Brian Williams put the Wildcats ahead for good in their victory at UCLA. 
Williams finished with 32 points and 14 rebounds. He scored four points in overtime, including the basket that gave Arizona a 92-90 lead. Chris Mills had five points in overtime for the Wildcats (19-4, 8-3 Pacific-10). Don MacLean had 28 points and Tracey Murray had 23 for UCLA (17 -6, 5-5). 
No. 6 Duke 88, 
No.19 LSU 70 
Duke (21-4) won its second game in two days and sixth in a row, getting 24 points from Christian Laettner while hold­ing LSU's Shaquille O'Neal to 
15. O'Neal had averaged 28 a game. 
Duke led 48-39 at halftime and by as many as 23 points in the second half. 

Another key was the 16 of­Wake Forest 74, fensive rebounds Tennessee grabbed-it ended up with a
No. 11 Virginia 66 Freshman Randolph 
Monday, February 11, 1991 
38-31 advantage over Notre Dame on the boards. 
"We were trying to keep them off the boards, which is why we came out in a zone, but they outmuscled us," McGraw said. 
The Volunteers extended their halftime lead to 68-51, with 9:30 remaining before Notre Dame made a run. Seven quick points from Liebscher and Robinson cut the lead to 10, but the Irish never could get the margin below double figures. 
"If we could have gotten the lead to single digits, it would have changed the whole com­plexion of the game," McGraw said. "It would have put more pressure on them." 
Notre Dame's last gasp came at the 3:25 mark. Robinson's 15-foot jumper cut the lead to 76-66, forcing a Volunteer timeout. Out of the break, Charles converted a three-point play, sparking an 8-0 Tennessee run to give it an 84­66 lead with 1:40 left to put the game away. 
"I compliment my team for being able to come back in the second half and do what they didn't do in the first half," Summitt said. "Our defensive pressure probably wore them down in the second half." 
McGraw concurred. 

"The thing that hurt us the most tonight was their depth," she said. "They just keep com­ing at you." 
Notre Dame will attempts to start a new victory streak Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC versus Butler. 
Childress scored 11 of his 19 
WE WOULD LIKE TO SHARE WITH YOU
points in the final 10 minutes 
as Wake Forest handed Virginia 
OUR EXPERIENCE OF LIVING IN its third loss in four days. 
FOR TWO YEARS AS HOLY 
Wake Forest (14-7 overall, 5­
ASSOCIATES

4 Atlantic Coast Conference) won its fourth straight game and beat Virginia for just the 
TUESDAY, Feb. 12th 
second time in their last 12 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
meetings. Virginia (17 -7, 5-5) had been on a six-game win­
7:00p.m. 

CHILE CROSS 
ning streak before losing by 12 points at Duke on Thursday and by 19 at North Carolina on Saturday. 
Saturday's Games: 
No. 3 Ohio St. 96, Northwestern 64 


Ohio State (19-1) held onto a share of first place in the Big Ten, getting 26 points and 8 
':Straight :From tft.e Jfeart"
rebounds from Jim Jackson. 
Northwestern has lost 43 straight conference road games 
'%e Sweetest""

since 1986. 3 Assorted Mylars 
No. 6 Duke 101, 

1 Red Heart Mylar Maryland 81 
2 Clear Latex Heart Balloons 
Duke topped the 20-victory 
2 Pink Latex Heart Balloons 
mark for the eighth straight 
2 Red Latex Balloons 

season, using a second-hall' 
2 White Lates Balloons 

rally to beat Maryland. 
Balloon Weight 


J 
$16.95 Delivered 
$13.95 Pick-up

rvalentin£ 1-f)jaJ 
12 Red Latex Balloons 

dweethea~t dpeciaf 
Balloon Weight 
$12.95 Delivered 
$9.95 Pick-up

f)jinne~ fo~ two 
~~m, qyOWII-Y-~ _,_...:-:•:;,..../~:;:;~--,_,_\. 

df
@)

~ac/ I<J d~ f?Jl(YilUlmc.e 
../ ..,; ~-~~ v ~ .:: 
* Any mug-Add $4.50
7. v·' u• ~ 

r(.~aly 
* Attacked To Koosh Kin-Add $7.50 
\.. o 
A"'~! 

* Stuffed Animals Available 
. dn?P" .
''··· 81~~· ! 

giggles&grins
Make your Valentine's Day ···::,..,,,,,,_____ ,,,,,,,.....,,,__ /! 
All Balloons 


halloon."i,l(in.~ toys and more fun
Treated With 

reservations now! 
Umvers11y Common.s Shopping C~ntrr
Hi Float For A 
6.10/·A. Slcde Rood2J Svuth &nd. IN 46635
Longer Ufe 
(219)272-5277 

Cherie Levy, Owner 
1213 Lincolnway East. M~hawaka 256-1444 
~­
~­
II. 

@) 
rrfie Cupid" 

2 Assorted Mylars 1 Red Heart Mylar 1 Clear Latex Heart Balloon 1 Pink Latex Heart Balloon 1 Red Latex Balloon 1 White Latex Balloon Balloon Weight 
$11.95 Delivered $8.95 Pick-up 

1 Heart Shaped Mylar Balloon Filled with Helium, In a Valentine Box, Surrounded By Tissue And Packages of Red Hots. (Price Includes Postage.) 
$12.95 Shipped 


By BECKY WOOD  and second places by Feehery  
Sports Writer  and  Kim  Steel in  the 200  
freestyle and Shana Stephens  
The women's swim team  and  Moston  in  the  100  
completed its best dual meet  backstroke.  
season  in  Holfs  Aquatic  Feehery  and  Stephens  
Center's history on Saturday  scored their second wins in  
after  downing  Eastern  the  100  free  and  200  
Michigan 184-77.  backstroke, respectively, while  
An 11-6 record against high  Diver Jenny Kipp won both 1­ 
caliber teams like Stanford,  meter and 3-meter boards.  
North Carolina State, Ohio  Other  first  places  were  
State,  Minnesota  and  recorded by Williams in the  
Northwestern is no easy task. ·  200  butterfly  (2:06.45),  
In fact, losing to such power­ Christy Van Patten in the 50  
houses  might  dampen  a  free (:25.39) and Moston in  
team's moral.  Not the Irish  the 100 butterfly (1:00.8).  
women.  Susan Bohdan finished first in  
the 500 freestyle, followed by  
"I don't think we were ever  second place Karen Keeley .1  
intimidated by those teams, I  second later.  
think they motivated us more  With the dual meet season  
than anything else," senior co­ behind  them,  the  Irish  
captain Chrissy Ciletti said.  prepare for the Midwestern  
Notre Dame's confidence  Collegiate Conference and  
spilled over into the pool this  Eastern Championship meets.  
weekend as they won 12 of 16  Notre Dame hosts the MCC  
meet events with one-two fin­ meet February 21-23.  
ishes in eight events.  Christy  "Going into MCCs I think we  
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp  Moston, Tracie O'Connell,  look really strong, not just  
The Notre Dame women's swimming team completed its most-successful dual meet season at the Rolfs Aquatic Center with a victory over Eastern Michigan.  Tanya Williams and Alicia Feehery won the 400 yard  front runnPrs hut all through," Ciletti said.  tlw way  


page 19 

Women beat E. Michi·gan 
medley relay, followed by first 
Irish men cruise to victory against Illinois
THINK Carmelite 
• 
SCHOOLS 

• 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 



THINK e PARISHES 
VOCATION RETREAT WEEKEND-Mar. 8-10, 1991 

PRAY.. 
------------CONTACT----------­
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carrn., Vocation Director 1317 Frontage Road • Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 
• (708) 852-4536 • 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
A senior, junior, sophomore and freshman led the Notre Dame men's swim team to the completion of a successful dual meet season on Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish defeated the University of Illinois, 136-101. and improved their season record 14-3. 
Senior co-captain Brian Rini clocked in a winning time of 
9:47.20 in the first individual 
THE 

NemTATION 
HAS LANDED. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 llours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 

'liJuchdown. NeXT's newest and most affordable machine is here. Stop in for a hands-on demon-£ stration of the revolutionary NeX'Istationncomputer. And go where no computer has gone before .• 
LJt:alll 1;:, lUH::Vef. THE AMERICAN II EARl 
ASS<.~IATION 
MEMORIAL I'RlO.;RAf\..1.

Heart disease dot'"n't h«Jve to be. 
-
•· 

. ~ 
1~CAN-RESTAURANr­
., 

Beef or Chicken Chajita for Two 
event, the 1000 freestyle. Freshman David Nathe won the second event, the 200 freestyle (1 :42.02), while junior Jim Birmingham (50 free) and sophomore Colin Cooley (200 individual medley) claimed firsts in the following events. 
The Irish continued to lead the meet with double wins scored by powerhouses Rini in the 200 butterny (1 :55.24) and Birmingham in the 100 free (4 7 .03). Sophomore standbys John Godfrey and Greg Cornick claimed firsts in the 200 backstroke and 500 freestyle, respectively, and Diver Sean Hyer accumulated 
490.425 points for first place in the 3-meter diving. 
After a long dual meet season the Irish now prepare for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and Eastern Championship meets. Notre Dame hosts the MCC meet February 21-23 and Chweland StatP will host Easterns March 
h-9. 

Beverages and Fried Ice Cream 
$14.99 

-·-----------­
page 20 The Observer Monday, February 11, 1991 
Ismail inspires ND track in Central Collegiates 

By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
Going into Saturday's 65th annual Central Collegiate Championships at Purdue University, Notre Dame men's track coach Joe Piane believed that his squad's success de­pended on its consistency in a variety of events. 
With that in mind, Piane had to be pleased with the many solid performances turned in by the Irish on the way to a re­spectable fourth-place finish, including one by an athlete whose physical capabilities consistently appear limitless. 
For the second week in a row, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail cruised to a win in the 55-meter dash. 
However, the real excitement took place Friday night as Ismail blazed to a time of 6.07 seconds in the trial heats, shat­tering his own school record and achieving the tenth-fastest time in history. 
Notre Dame built upon the momentum provided by the Ismail in the evening's first event to deliver several out­standing performances throughout the remainder of the meet. 
In the 5,000 meter run, Irish captain Ryan Cahill easily qualified for the IC4A Championships with a second place time of 14:15.9. Sophomore John Coyle and se­nior Pat Kearns followed closely in third and fourth place to help solidify the potent Irish distance attack. 
Cahill returned to run the 


Ryan Cahill 

mile portion of the winning dis­tance medley relay in a per­sonal best 4:08 as Notre Dame captured the event for the sec­ond consecutive year. 
The championship relay team also included sophomore Ed Lavelle, who registered a 3:06 
Sugar Ray says he'll retire 
NEW YORK (AP) -It's time for Sugar Ray Leonard to hit something that doesn't hit back. 
That's exactly what he's going to do. 
"I want to do what I planned to do a long time ago -take golf lessons," Leonard said early Sunday following his 12­round battering by Terry Norris. 
"It's time to get away physi­cally from boxing," added Leonard, who will continue to be involved with the manage­ment of boxers. 
Shortly after the end of his Madison Square Garden debut before 7,495 fans Saturday night, Leonard grabbed the ring microphone and said, "This is my last fight. Thank you for coming out. God bless you all." 
Leonard, who will be 35 on May 17, had said he never again would announce his re­tirement. 

It was not so much an an­nouncement, however, as it was a confirmation. The flashing fists of the 23-year-old Norris and the three official score­cards already had announced that Leonard was finished. 
"Trust me, this is it," Leonard said when reminded that he twice has come out of announced retirements. 
"It was a sad victory because of the way I ended Ray's ca­reer," said Norris, who retained the World Boxing Council super welterweight (154-pound) title. 
Leonard was knocked down in the second and seventh rounds. His lips were bleeding. His face was lumpy. 
"I've been a risk taker and I'm happy nothing happened to me," he said. 
. The Leonard pride, however, showed through the bumps and the blood. 
"I never thought of quitting during the fight," he said. One "no mas" fight was all there was going to be in 

Leonard's career. "No mas" is what Roberto Duran said when he quit in the eighth round of his 1980' rematch with Leonard. 
When the final bell mercifully tolled for the exhausted Leonard, he was behind by an incredible 16 points on each of two official cards. 
Barbara Perez scored every round for Norris, giving hims two-point margins in four rounds. Sid Rubenstein scored it 11 rounds for Norris, giving him two-point margins in three rounds and a three~point ad­vantage in another. 
Billy Costello, a former junior welterweight champion, who favored Norris by six points, thought Leonard won four rounds. 
"Ray took a pretty bad beat­ing," Norris said. "He showed me things that I 
showed guys in  the  past,"  
Leonard said.  
Of course, it  was  things  

-\) \? DAILYDELIVERY 
~ (1""'\ Suzanne~ Floral 
V 10% Discount for Students and StaffQQ *Walking distance from campus 
18029 S.R. 23 
Near Ironwood 
South Bend, IN 46637 

* Delivery and wire service (219) 277-2870 
keepsakes. collectibles & artistry 
Offering a wide variety of gift items for all occasions 
SPECIAL ITEM: BALLOON WRAPPING 
Wrap a gift inside a gift 
• GIFT BASKETS 

• PARTY ACCESSORIES
Ready made or make your own 

• GIFT WRAP
• 
COLLECTIBLES 


• 
SEASONAL GIFTS • CARDS 


HOURS: MON-FRI 10AM-6PM, SAT 10AM-2PM \ 
714 E. Jefferson Boulevard • South Bend, IN 46617 

leadoff 1,200 meters, senior quarter miler Scott Vandenburg, and junior Brian Peppard, whose 1:51 half mile gave the Irish a lead for good. 
Peppard also managed a third-place finish in the 1,000 meter run, trailing All­American Mark Dailey of team champion Eastern Michigan University. 
In the sprints, freshman Willie Clark duplicated his Meyo Invitational effort, following Ismail home in the 55 meters with a time of 6.30. Rod Smith narrowly missed qualifying for the March NCAA meet as he darted to a 22.17 second 200 meter dash victory. Sophomore Will Pollard also scored for the Irish in the 200, posting a sixth place time of 22.82 seconds. 
Notre Dame's success on the track was equalled by Irish jumpers and throwers in the field events. Shot putter Jim Flanigan bettered his previous best heave by almost two feet as the freshman placed third with a throw of 55 feet 1 inch. 
High jumper Paul Maloney also registered a career best performance with a second­place leap of 6-11 112. Greg Matteo continued his consistent pole vaulting with a 15-8 effort, a personal improvement of nearly two inches. 
The Irish return home next Monday to host the Midwestern Collegiate Championships. 
Notre Dame, a perennial MCC powerhouse, will have its title challenged by foes including Loyola, Marquette, and Butler. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•ADVANCED CONDITIONING CLASS will start Feb. 11 at 5:15 
p.m. Mondays and 6:15 a.m. Wednesdays and Fridays at the Loftus Sports Center. the class runs all three days from Feb. 11 through March 6. If interested, call 239-7890 to register before 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 12. 
•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE will have a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For information call Cathy at 284-4456. 

•THERE 
WILL BE A MEETING for all students interested in helping with promotions for the 1991 Bengal Bouts at 7 p.m., Wednesday Feb. 13 in the Boxing Room at the Joyce ACC. 

•THE 
ND/SMC EQUESTRAIN CLUB will meet Monday, Feb. 11 at 8:30 p.m. in room 222 in the Hesburgh Library to organize for the horse show at Culver Feb. 15-17. All members must attend. Any others interested in more information or in helping are welcome. Any questions, call Karen at 283-1715. 


Leonard failed to show that helped make the match so one­sided. His feet sometimes seemed anchored to the canvas. His arms grew heavy from frustration and desperation. 
Early in the lOth round, 
Leonard shook his head and motioned at Norris with his gloves in a gesture of resigna­tion. 
"Ray was my idol," Norris said. "He still is. That will never change." 
So it ends. 



Bring your Valentine to the Polo Club for dinner & dancing! 
Dance to the big band sounds of "The Nostalgics" Thurs. Feb. 14th 8pm 
for reservations call 289-EOLO 
(7656) 


~~M~-o~n_d~a~y-,~-F~e~b_r~u-a~~~~1_·,-~,_19~9~1--------~---~~~~~~------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_T~h~e~-O--b_-s_e~N~-e-·r~~~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------------~-------~p~a:g~e~2~1 ----~ 
Injuries doom ND wrestlers in match vs. Nebraska ~ 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Nebraska's Matt Lundquist, being injured against Iowa, Sports Writer however, rose to the occasion in won a very impressive 6-5 nail­the second and third periods to biter over the Cornhuskers' 
They rallied to within a hair's hold Gowens to a 9-5 victory Corey Olson, ranked second in bmadth of pulling off a storied and keep Notre Dame down 6-3 the nation at 177 pounds. upset. in the team scoring. In the first period, Olson took 
Yet it was Injury. ancient McGrew down once and 
nemesis of all competitors, that The Cornhuskers' John McGrew escaped, for a 2-1 doomed the Notre Dame Buxton, ranked seventh at 118 Olson advantage. · wrnstling team in the end, as it pounds, moved up two weight Olson went ahead 3-1 with an 
had in the beginning. classes to pin Irish sophomore escape to open the second pe­
Notre Dame began the day by Kyle Cadman at 134 pounds, riod, but McGrew, wrestling spotting Nebraska a 6-0 edge while Jason Kelber, second­with determination, scored a with a forfeit in the 118-pound ranked at 126 pounds, also takedown with 53 seconds left match -a forfeit necessitated moved up a pair of weight to tie the match at 3-3. by the injury Chris Jensen suf­classes to beat Notre Dame's In the third and final period, fered one week ago against Jamie Boyd at 142 pounds. McGrew opened with an escape Iowa. The Irish ended the day At 150 pounds, Todd Layton to lead 4-3 with 1:56 remain­by spotting the Cornhuskers of the Irish led 4-2 entering the ing. Olson, however, went back anothnr six points when injury third period, only to lose by a on top S-4 by scoring a take­forced junior Tom Salvino to penalty point, 7-6, to down with :30 left. But withdraw from his heavyweight Nebraska's Layne Billings. McGrew, ever the competitor, match. Notre Dame's luck was much promptly scored a reversal with 
But injuries aside, Notre the same at 158 pounds, as :25 left and rode Olson to win 
Dame, who fell to 3-6-1 in dual Emil Soehnlen led Todd Enger 6-5. nwet competition, showed S-4 with 1:58 to go in the "J .J. McGrew just does not flashes of greatness in its loss match. Enger, however. quit," said McCann. "He could to the seventh-ranked notched a takedown only :19 have cashed in, but he wants to Nebraska Cornhuskers. later to take a 6-5 lead. Enger win. McGrew hadn't even 
won 7-5 because of his stepped on the mat since Iowa, 
"If we had won the 15-and accumulated riding time. so this win tells me that he's got ISH-pound matches. we would Yet the Irish did not give up. a Iotta heart. For a freshman to have won the meet," said Irish Notre Dame's newest member beat a senior that is second­coach Fran McCann, sizing up of the 100 victory club, senior ranked is an accomplishment." his team's performance. "The Mark Gerardi, thoroughly Notre Dame trailed 21-10, forfeit at 118 was tough; it hurt dominated Jamie Penning in and with the crowd still roaring us. It's the same old trou­the 167 pound match, as he its support, Steve King won the Steve got them for us. He gave The first period ended in a ble-we need a total team ef­registered a 17-5 major 190 pound match in spectacu­us the big win that we needed, scoreless tie, but Manley scored fort. We don't have much expe­decision to slice Nebraska's lar fashion, as he used his which is not bad for a sopho­a second-period reversal to go rience, so we can't survive team point lead to 21-7. quickness to pin Tommy more." ahead 2-0. In the third period, without a total team effort. The Gerardi's match heated up Robbins with 1:53 left in the With the Irish now within Salvino escaped and Manley two close losses at 150 and 158 the season-high crowd of ap­first period. striking distance at 21-16, the notched a takedown before came back to haunt us." 
proximately 220 spectators, but coaches, wrestlers and crowd Salvino had to withdraw be­
In the 126-pound match, ju­the next match set the Joyce "Steve is dangerous," observed the heavyweight cause of injury. nior Marcus Gowens scored an ACC ablaze. assessed McCann. "If you lock match between Tom Salvino of Manley triumphed 4-1, and early takedown and appeared Freshman J.J. McGrew, who up with him, he'll throw you. Notre Dame and Sonny Manley the Cornhuskers escaped the on his way to a major decision. had not even practiced since We needed bonus points and of Nebraska with baited breath. upset, 27-16. 
Tennessee a tough battle for Irish guard Sara Liebscher is just as good as most teams' recruit in the country from un­most of the game. It came down said. first five," McGraw said. der the nose of some of the top
Gap 
to a five-minute stretch at the Irish coach Muffet McGraw women's basketball programs. start of the second half, and noted after the game that "the From a recruiting standpoint, Michelle Marciniak, the pony­
continued from page 24 
after getting back within 10 thing that hurt us the most therefore, the gap still looms tailed sensation from not to take this team lightly," points, not having enough gas tonight was their depth." She large. On Tennessee's roster, Allentown, Pa., was wooed Volunteer All-American Daedra to sustain the comeback. elaborated further after the one will find three former Miss heavily by Tennessee and Charles said. "I was post-game press conference. Basketball's from Michigan, Stanford. but when she impressed-they were really a "It's hard to try to always "They have a big advantage several Street and Smiths and watched Saturday's game from diffflrent team from last year." play catch-up, and unfortu­with their depth. They get 12 USA Today All-Americans, and the stands, she was part of 
Notre Dame, down to only nately that's all we did high school All-Americans. the Player of the Year from Notre Dame's entourage, much nine players, still gave throughout the second half," which means their second five 1989. to the Volunteers' chagrin and 

ALL MARRIED STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF ARE INVITED TO: 
TAKE SOME TIME TO JENJRllCIHf YOUR MARRIAGE in a Marriage Enrichment Program from Campus Ministry 
Using the ENRICH Inventory, couples look at areas of their marriage: Communication, Resolving Conflict, Finances, Children and Parenting, Families and Friends, Sexuality, Religion 
and discuss issues of similar and different perspective. 
This is a two-session program. Each session will be offered twice. In Session I couples take the inventory. In Session II couples receive the results. 
Session I will be offered Sunday. February 17, 2:00-3:30 pm . . ~nd Wednesday, February 20, 7:30-9:00 pm (Ch1ldcare IS available on Sunday afternoon; please request it when you register.) 
Pre-registration is necessary. There is a $10 processing fee per couple. (Fee does not apply to students.) Call Campus Ministry at 239-5242 to register by FebruarylS. 
For further information, please call Tracey Sandman or Chris Etzel. 
CONSIDER SOMETHING 
D'L:F:FER.ENT 
FOR 
&JJ 
H 
~'[]]All' 
THIS YEAR !! 

According to McGraw, how­ever, the Volunteers' talent ad­vantage is a remnant of the past. one which is disappearing fast. 
"Right now, we have the play­ers in the program to beat Tennessee," she said. "If it wasn't for Dionne (Smith) being injured, and Tootie (Jones) and Comalita (Haysbert) being out, it would have been a whole different game." 
McGraw is especially proud of the fact that Notre Dame pulled a major coup this recruiting season, snatching the top-rated McGraw's delight. 
"We made the jump this year," she said. "In the past couple of years, we've gone head-to-head with Tennessee, with Louisiana Tech, and we won. We've finally made that step." 
Notre Dame already has knocked off the Bulldogs this season, finally closing the gl}p with them. And if Saturday's game and the victories in the recruiting war are any indica­tion, the gap between the Irish and Tennessee will close com­pletely very soon. 
-' 

TANNING 
ready and stock up for Spring 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC.• STATE RD. 23 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
--------~----~-------------------­
The Observer 

page 22 Monday, February 11, 1991 
Zadra's big game helps ND split with Stevens Point 

By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
When the Irish hockey team 
had its 12-game home win .streak broken by Wisconsin­Stevens Point 5-1 on Friday night, Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer knew that Saturday's game would be crucial in guid­ing the direction of the team for the final four games of the 
regular season. 
"It was a gut check and we 
failed. I hope (the Irish) re­
spond to this. I think pride will 
bring something more out," 
said Schafer after Friday's 
game, adding, ''I'm not giving 
(Stevens Point) the game to­
morrow night. I'm looking for­
ward to seeing how we re­
spond." 
And respond the Irish did, 
taking care of the Pointers 7-3 
on Saturday, behind a hat trick 
and two assists from Lou 
Zadra, which earned him first 
star of the night honors. 
"We came out more focused 
(on Saturday)," said Zadra. "It 
was an all-out effort from the 
goaltender out." 
Saturday night Notre Dame 
didn't back down from any 
challenges, and the Pointers 
were presenting many, a fact 
supported by the 30 penalties 
the referees called. The officials 
were uneven at best, 
University of Wisconsin Platteville 
A 
v 

Empbues in Liberal Arts International Business 
Courses available in Spanish and in English 
Fluency in Spanish not required
....... 
All courses approved by UW-Piatteville and validated on an official UW-Piatteville traii.!Cript 
$3975 per semester for Wlscombt and Mhmesota residents S4:Z:Z5 per semester for non-residents 
Costs include Tuition and Fees Room and Board in Spanish Homes Fieldtrip3 
· Financial aid applies 
For fortber information contact Study Abroad Proua• 388 Warner HaD lfttunlty of Whcomln-Plattnille I Unilerslty Plaza Plattmlle, W1531ll-3t99 (611) J.CZ-1726 
,..............................................................................•............... 
•  
~  Mandatory Meeting  
•  
for anyone interested in running for  
class office  
•  
Monday, Feb. 11  7:00pm  
•  
Montgomery  Theater  • Ill  
•  
Lafortune Student  
Center  

• • 
Reminder: Vote TODAY for Student Body PresidentNice-President 

• 
sometimes waiting 10 or 15 seconds to blow the whistle after the goalie had picked up the puck, a mistake which put the goaltenders at great risk. 
The Irish gave up the first goal Saturday, making the game seem like a repeat of Friday's game, but Notre Dame responded when Mike Curry scored his first of two goals on an assist from Lou Zadra, and the Irish never looked back. 
Zadra scored the next two goals, setting up camp in front of the net and punching in re­bounds, working hard for his goals as did all of Notre Dame's players. 
"I'm really pleased," said Schafer. "That was our grittiest effort of the year. We worked hard, very hard." 
Including Zadra's goals, the Irish scored four goals in the space of 20 minutes, from the 
13:20 mark of the first period until the 13:33 mark of the sec­ond,-three of which came off the power play. 
All in all, the Irish went four for nine on the power play, numbers that indicate the Notre Dame offense is in high gear. 
"We've been cutting down on fancy passes and we're shoot­ing more," said Zadra. 

Notre Dame lost the services of first-string right wing Sterling Black midway through the first period when he went into the boards headfirst, leav­ing him dazed and blurring his vision. 
Stevens Point came back to put a scare into the Irish when it scored two goals in the space of five minutes early in the third period, one on a two-on­one that escaped Irish goalie Greg Louder, the other when the Pointer's Bill Horbach I'm really pleased. It was a solid effort." 
Friday night Stevens Point got the better of the Irish, hustling its way to a 5-1 victory. The Pointers scored on a number of nice shots, and Stevens Point goaltender Kevin Marion robbed Notre Dame of several shots, holding the Irish score­less until the beginning of the third period when the game was far out of reach. 
"We needed those (breakaways) to stay in it," said Schafer. "A couple of those and we would have been right in it. 
"They're good. I can see why they're Division III national champions two years running." 
The Irish are off next week­end, but Air Force comes to town for two games the follow­ing weekend. 
In the next week, the players will get a few days of rest while the coaches are out recruiting. Their practice time will also be limited since the ice will be cov­ered over to make use of the space during Junior Parents Weekend. 
fender and beat Louder with a nice shot. Beware! 
"Unfortunately, we took some Crai·g Conner 
weaved past a Notre Dame de-r-i~~~~~-----~~~~~~i~i~~~m 
bad penalties that could have given them a chance to get has Mono. 
back further," said Schafer. "That would have been a Don't get near 
tragedy. That's got to be something to learn from." him, touch him, The defense kicked in for the l" h" h 
Irish, including several nice Or S lp 1m t e 
stops by Louder, and then tongue!
Zadra, Tom Miniscalco, and • 
Curry added goals in a three-GET WELL 
minute span to put the game 
out of reach. SOON! "That was exactly the way 
they had to play to win -YOUR MASKED 
tonight," said schafer. "The gut l__~R~O~O~M~IE~S~--j~~~~~~~~~~

check turned positive. Overall, 

The Observer page 23 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Word with head 59 Kind of charge or back 
62 Meadow4 p.m. Series: "The Portrait of a Woman: Notre 1 Songwriters' 38 Kitchen device 63 Campus bldgs.
Dame, Our Mother," Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Spon­org. 
39 Repasts for 

6 Royal power 641ndebted
sornd by Year of Women. 
Dec. 31

symbol 65 Choreographer 9Swimmers' 42 Indonesian Lubovitch
4:20 p.m. Colloquium: "Far Infrared Pump and Probe 
platform name for New 
&&Clumsy
Speetroscopy of Semiconductors and Superconductors," Guinea
14 Theater 67 Leaf of grass

John Federici, AT&T Bell Labs, Murray Hill. Room 118 
programs 43 Sci. of stars, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by Department of 15 Ward heeler etc. 68 Pt. of a letter closure
Physies. 16 Fictional Doone 44 Almost: Prefix 17 Winged 
69 Ritualistic 
45 "A--in Her 

declarations
4:30 p.m. Lecture: "A Molecular Analysis of Early De-10 Ripen Hand": Aldrich 
velopment in the Frog Xenopus Laevis," Rosamund Smith, 19 Bitter 47 Onager20A toast
Ernst-Boehringer Institute, Vienna. Galvin Life Science DOWN
49 North Sea 
23 Curve

Crmter Auditorium. Sponsored by Department of Biologi­feeder
24 Rider in an 1 Diminish 
eal Scienees. 
so"­

oater 2 Farm buildings
Necessarily
25 L.A. time 3 Family of the

So": Gershwin 
20 Rabble Great

29 Place alone Pacificator 32 Addis Ababa's s&"Here's-" 4 Choir member province (another toast) 
s Sham: Comb. form
3:30 p.m. Workshop: "Office Visits/Plant Trips," Mari­
6 Colorful fish 
lyn IHee, assistant director, Career and Placement Ser­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Thesaurus 
vices. llesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Career and 
name 
Placement Services. 
a Most misty 28---arms 41 Heavens: 54 Fluid 
9 Tire problem (soldier) Comb. form resembling
8 p.m. Headings: David lluddle, poet and short story 
10 Ness, e.g. writr~r. University of Vermont. Jlesburgh Library Audito­
30 Against: Abbr. 46 Disencumber blood plasma
11 Hockey great ss Examinations31 Rovaniemi
rium. Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival. 48Atelier 
56 Repair....~trm~ 12 Black cuckoo natives

II ~:::-+::;;.+;.~ 13 Lincoln son 57 Exhort
32 Put on a happy 51 Lend-­so Jaffe or Barrett21 Pack groceries face (heed) 59 Male swan
MENU -'-+::-+:::+=-~::-+::~+=-! again 33 A king of Tyre 
52 Jewish months 60 Hooter22 French-Belgian 34 Namesakes of 53 French tam 61 By way of
border river the chief Norse ~~'-:'-!.i-..::+::+7-iliil ~=+:=+:=+::+=+=-! 25 Cole Porter god
Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's song: 1929 36 Kind of lace Answers to any three clues in this Hoast Pork Loin with apples Baked ham ..,...-+-=+=+-::-! 26 Violinist Isaac 37 Alts . puzzle are available by touch-tone Meatless Bak11d Ziti ANN A L 40 Sufffx with phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each
Veggie lasagna

Egg Holls Linguini Alfredo T E E N Y serpent minute). Spaghetti with meat sauce Deli bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
r-~~~~~~~~77~::1 ~------------------------,
ll ? W\N, liS A 

! You've choseh
I'M 

D£SPERAT£ IO fllt:E.T WOMEN,
GJIMG TO PRtsS II \N \HE e seven of CLUB5!._ A superstflon FRANKLIN FINDS HIMSELF HANiiJINC.­St-K>W ANO MAKE E'i'ER'{ON~ Will begin a.mo'9. cer1a.·,n Asia~\ cult-~fPS -that our AT THe COPi£RS IN THE 
LIBRAJ?'i Willl "AN EXTRA DIME.. 
II

to.. TWO·IoN 0\lC~O££. horn, when grounil u/ into a. f;t')f! pow:ler; is -+he. 6.,.,,~.,,,.,,,,,,,,,,11;':'"''''•
M-WA.LV.ED B'U source ofa [XlW~fu aphfodisiac aYid +rat l:x:-lief will ·1n tv..rn cause a g(eat demcmd whd, will

JI-.,__"CJ 

c;5ive rise to a depr-avM,VYie(ei\es5 9~"0Ltp of profe!>.Sior'kli 1\·,llen who 'N.\\ hunt you down "'''''''~~''''·''''''' 
c.u t horn, aV¥1 leave your 1 
br..fz.u.rds !, . I 
1-lt.'S J\l'ST Jt.AlC\lS 13£CAIJSE SO 1'<\IJCI-\ 111M~ l-IE DOE5 . 
~ 


• 
BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


... 

-
Sports 
By KEN TYSIAC sonal fouls, while Syracuse, favor of Syracuse. Associate Sports Editor which employed an aggressive After an Orangemen time out, full-court press for much of the LeRon Ellis hit one of two free 
Notre Dame did everything it game, was called for only 10. throws to up the Syracuse lead needed to against No. 7 Phelps was especially in-to two. The patient Irish then Syracuse Saturday in front of censed at a foul the referees ran the shot clock down, and 11,418 fans at the Joyce ACC. didn't call. With 3:10 remaining with 35 seconds left in the 
But somehow the Irish, in the game, Irish guard Tim game Bennett drilled a three­sporting new fluorescent green Singleton took the ball to the pointer to give his team a 69-68 uniforms, still didn't manage to hole and was hammered by a advantage. win. Billy Owens scored 12 of Syracuse defender. The officials "That was a major three," Syracuse's last 13 points, in­allowed play to continue, how-Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim cluding a rebound goal with ever, and Owens immediately said. "When he Bennett got it five seconds remaining which converted a three-point play. over there, we thought he'd gave the Orangemen a 70-69 "It was brutal, there was make it. We knew what they victory. body contact," Phelps said of were going to do, we just didn't 
Notre Dame outrebounded the play. "I was disappointed in defend it well." Syracuse 40-31, and outshot the call. I was also disappointed But the Orangemen got the the Orangemen from the field, that we went to the line three last laugh. Freshman guard 
49.2 percent to 45.9 percent. times compare.d to, their 17 Adrian Autry drove to the hoop, The Irish (9-14) got good out­times." but missed a circus shot off the side play from guards Elmer The Irish coach voiced his glass. Owens outfought the Bennett (15 points, 9 assists) disappointment to the referees, crowd for the rebound and de­and Daimon Sweet (17 points) who promptly hit him with a posited a reverse layup into the and strong play in the paint technical foul. Owens hit both basket for the final 70-69 from center Keith Tower (12 free throws for a 6 7-61 lead, margin. Ellis stole the ball from points, 13 rebounds). the Orangemen's largest of the Sweet with two seconds left to 
But the Orangemen (20-3) game, with 3:01 to play. stifle Notre Dame's last des­still prevailed, even though they Singleton responded with a peration attempt. had trailed by 12 points early three-point play to cut the "You can't take anything in the second half. Irish coach Syracuse lead to three. On the away from our guys," Phelps Digger Phelps seemed to think next Orangemen possession, said. "Sweet gave us 34 good that the officials might have Bennett stripped Owens inside minutes and Tower played well. had something to do with the and executed a perfect two-on-We won the battle of the outcome of the game, as Notre one break with Sweet, whose Dame was whistled for 14 per-layup made the score 67-66 in see LOSS I page 17 
Owens takes command down the stretch 
By GREG GUFFEY then reinstated by the NCAA Stith did two Saturdays ago. Sports Editor just hours before Saturday's "He just took control," Notre tipoff. Dame coach Digger Phelps 
Syracuse forward Billy Owens "We just came out and played said. "That's what he does." followed in the footsteps of basketball," said Owens, who Notre Dame had a 61-57 lead Virginia's Bryant Stith on limited his discussions about with 4:54 when Owens took Saturday afternoon at the Joyce the eligibility probe. "We can't charge. ACC. worry about that. It didn't have In the next two minutes, he 
Stith scored Virginia's last 19 no effect on us." nailed a three-pointer from the points as the Cavaliers rallied While he won't win too many right corner, capped off a fast to a 68-67 victory over the Irish grammar contests, Owens did break, had a three-point play two weeks ago, negating what show down the stretch why he the old-fashioned way with a would have been Notre Dame's is a member of most All­driving shot and a foul and fi­biggest victory of the season. America teams. Held to a quiet nally hit two free throws after 
Owens gave an encore per­12 points in the first half, he Irish coach Digger Phelps was formance of Stith on Saturday, exploded when the stakes be­whistled for a technical. That scoring 12 of Syracuse's last 13 came high. gave the Orangemen a 6 7-61 points as the Orangemen edged The hoop most people will lead with three minutes the Irish 70-69 before the sec­remember is the rebound bas­remaining. ond capacity crowd in as many ket with five seconds left that Then, he waited almost three weeks. gave the Orangemen the vic­minutes before scoring the re­
"When their team is on the tory. Adrian Autry missed a bound basket that ended Notre ropes, he pulls them out," Irish jumper, but Owens got position Dame's hopes once again for its forward Daimon Sweet said of inside, grabbed the rebound biggest win of the season. Owens' heroics. and tossed it in. "Owens was in the right place 
Owens finished the game with "I didn't have a full focus on at the right time," Sweet said. 31 points and 10 rebounds to it," Owens said. "I saw the rim "That's why he's such a good help Syracuse improve to 20-3, and then went up for the shot." player. That's what makes guys but he almost didn't even make That ended a spurt where like Billy Owens great players." the trip. He was one of seven Owens hit from inside, outside, players who were declared off the drive, on transition and ineligible by the university and from the foul line -much like see OWENS I page 21 
.. 
Tennessee pulls away with second-half flurry 
Lady Vols utilize depth to Gap between end Notre Dame's streak ~olunteer~, ND 
1s decreas1ng
By RENE FERRAN the game away. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer "Charles is a great player," Sports Writer 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw KNOXVILLE-All good things said. "We knew they were 
KNOXVILLE-The gap be­
must come to an end. going to go to her, but we tween fifth-ranked TennesseeTennessee ended the Notre couldn't stop her." 
and 20th-ranked Notre DameDame women's basketball The most important stretch of still exists. 
team's 15-game winning streak the game came immediately But that gap is shrinking. 
with an 88-71 triumph in after halftime. Tennessee held 
Only two years ago, Notre
Knoxville Saturday afternoon. Notre Dame scoreless for the 
Dame's women's basketball
The Irish last lost December 6 first 4 1/2 minutes of the sec­team lost to Tennessee 98-43 atagainst Indiana. ond half to take control of a Knoxville. Last season, theNotre Dame was led by Sara close game. The Irish were margin was 23, 77-54. In 1991,Liebscher and Karen Robinson within six, 47-41, at halftime, even though the Irish fell 88-71with 17 points apiece, Margaret but after the break, the 
to the Volunteers Saturday
Nowlin added 13 and Coquese Volunteers took charge. 
afternoon, the game, as the
Washington 12. Tennessee was ··we did a couple of good cliche goes, "was closer thanled by Peggy Evans and Dena things in the first half, and then the final score indicates."
Head with 14 each and All­we lost it in the first couple of "(Coach Pat Summitt) told us
American Daedra Charles 13, minutes of the second half," including seven down the stretch as the Volunteers put 
see VOLS I page 18 see GAP I page 21 



... 







