
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1991
VOL XXIII NO 96 
, .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND $AJNT ,U~Y'S' · 

The Observer!Macy Huecker 
Construction continues 
A heavy crane overlooks the empty construction site of the future DeBartolo classroom building. 
By MARK KOWALSKI 
News Writer 
Professors should consider the larger issues of how grading and testing fit into the overall educational process when designing and grading exams, according to Luis Fraga, director of graduate studies, government and international studies. 
Tests should be designed with the purpose of the course in mind, said Fraga, who gave a lecture Monday at the Center for Continuing Education titled MBetter Tests, Good Grades: Effective Skills for Testing and Grading." 
Consideration of the goal or underlying purpose of the course will help professors to focus upon the most effective method of assessing the stu­dents' progress towards this goal or purpose, he said. 
Fraga also suggested that professors consider how their testing and grading methods will encourage the development of their students and enrich their educational inquiry. 
Testing methods vary greatly in response to the wide array of course goals and range in type from objective tests to those which challenge the student to expand upon and apply the class material to unexpected scenarios. 
According to Fraga, generally objective tests allow for objec­tivity in grading, standardiza­tion of tests and a consensus as to the correct response. 
More subjective testing meth­ods, said Fraga, allow the teacher to gain a better assessment of the depth and continuity of the students learning, as well as to better gage the degree in which the student has internalized the in­formation and can thus apply it. 
Fraga also explained that the grading of tests should accu­rately assess and reflect the degree to which a student is ac­complishing the goals of the course. 
He suggested that professors confer with students who achieve both high and low test scores to asses the effectiveness of the their testing methods and modify their testing procedures accordingly. 
Designing effective tests may take years of experience and adjustment for professors, yet according to Fraga, they can be effectively utilized as tools for assessing the progress of stu­dents as well the effectiveness of the professors teaching. 
The lecture was part of the Graduate Student Union Pro­fessional Development Work­shops. 
DHAIIRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -On call and on edge, U.S. and allied troops awaited the fateful "go" order Monday along the northern front. The Soviets handed Iraq a new, 11th-hour peace plan in a bid to head off an all-out ground war in the desert, but the White House said meanwhile "the war goes on." 
On land and sea, preliminary sparring went on. 
President Bush's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said the Sovi­ets did not ask Bush to hold up any war action while Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's proposal was considered in Baghdad -but just not to comment on the plan. 
Earlier Monday, the White House said the best hope for fordng Iraq out of Kuwait was "conflict in the air and on the ground." 
American gunners pounded Iraqi positions with artillery fire. Iraqi mines afloat in the Persian Gulf damaged two U.S. Navy warships -a billion-dol­lar missile cruiser and a 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
• 
Iraqi history I page 3 

• 
Soviet plan I page 6 

• 
Actress' remarks I page 6 

• 
'Dirty dozen'? I page 6 

• 
Iraq's sea mines I page 7 

• 
Overthrow? I page 7 


Marine assault ship. And an American pilot went down deep inside Iraqi-held territory, to be plucked to safety by U.S. rescue helicopters. 
Up on the northern sands, the troops of Desert Storm were ready to launch a broad offen­sive. "We are prepared to at­tack if necessary ... tomorrow," said Brig. Gen. Daniel Gazeau, deputy commander of the French contingent. 
The U.S. 2nd Marine Division repositioned its forces Monday to prepare for the cross-border assault, and sent reconnais­sance teams beyond a 12-foot protective berm and into a no­man's-land between the oppos­ing lines, Associated Press cor­respondent Denis Gray re­ported from the front. 
The allies were ready, too, to defend against any Iraqi pre­emptive attack aimed at dis­rupting their plans. "Most of us believe he will try it," said Ma­rine Col. Carl Fulford. "What option is left to him at this stage?" 
He -Iraqi President Saddam Hussein -may have been given another option Monday. 
His foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, met with Gorbachev in Moscow and was presented with what a Kremlin spokesman described only as a 
see WAR I page 6 
Chilean urges more student involvement 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
Students all around the world must take a more active role in addressing national and world issues, according to Claudio Orrego Larrain, student body president of Catholic University of Chile. 
According to Larrain, who spoke before the Student Sen­ate Monday, students lost the right to elect their own student leaders at Catholic University after a military coup in 1973. Human rights were violated and military rectors were ap­pointed. \.. 
Students struggled to regain democratic election of student government, some going so far as to be jailed, tortured or killed, before the right was re­instituted in 1985. 
"Maybe for you it is just so 
ND endowment is at its highest ranking ever 
Special to The Observer 367 public and private colleges and universities The University of Notre surveyed. 
Dame's endowment has Notre Dame's increase of achieved its highest 11.6 percent was higher than ranking-15th-among the average of 11.3 percentAmerican institutions of for endowments of more than higher learning and it $400 million, the average of remains the best endowed 10.1 percent for all privateCatholic university in the institutions' endowments and United States by a wide the average of 9.6 percent for margin. all higher education 
endowments. 
Notre Dame's endowment Notre Dame first appeared went from $542.5 million at in the NACUBO survey in the end of the 1989 fiscal year fiscal 1977. when its $110 to $605.6 million on June 30, million dollar endowment 1990, according to the annual ranked 24th in the country.endowment study of the Na­Fueled by two successful tional Association of College major developmentand University Business Offi­campaigns, the University's cers (NACUBO). 
That moved the University from 18th to 15th among the 
see MONEY I page 4 
• Iraqi foreign minister Tariq Aziz met with Soviet President Gorbachev in an effort to find asettlement to end the war, before the start of an expected allied ground offensive. 

----:-:---1 
-..."'\.. 
•(". 
TURKEY _,_.,.....-:~. ..-~..._..,...,._.t svRIA..--fsaghdad , 
LEBANON ;? __....... I 
ISRAEL ~./{,............/'\ 0 
~I _,_............... "·. IRAQ 
~
---' 
common that you don't even care," said Larrain. "For us, it was so important just to gain the right to vote." 
Ninety-nine percent of the student body voted in last year's election, he said. 
In the United States, he said, MI feel that ... sometimes they (Americans) don't care about what is happening beyond the university, beyond the country. After the war (in the Persian GulO, the problems of the world don't stop." 
The role of student govern­ment at Catholic University dif­fers greatly from that of those in the U.S., according to Lar­rain. 
Over the past six years, he said, students have worked to reach three major goals: the return of democracy, the de­
see SENATE I page 4 
Soviets make 11th-hour proposal; troops await orders 
./ 
reported injuries. ,../..----l-·.......-{,1 JORDAN ·••••'\ KUWAIT 
IRAN / SAUDI ARABIA --l~.. "..[ 
t~
G~ound war update: Kuwait Ci~ -~ • The L.A. Times reported yesterday that the 

GULF WAR ROUNDUP Monday, Feb.18 Diplomatic front: 
U.S. ships hit mines: The USS Tripoli 

and the USS Princeton both struck floating mines in the northern Persian Gulf. Both ships are operating under there own power and their were no 
I I l ) , ) 
,.,,.. ~ .·' 
As of 7a.m. EST AP 
U.S. planned to launch aground-and-sea attack this week if'... , Iraq does not surrender or agree to withdraw in the next two · \, days. 
• 
France's Foreign Minister: "We are on the eve or the '­pre-eve of the ground offensive for the liberation of Kuwait." 

• 
In skirmishes along the front, two U.S. soldiers were killed by friendly fire. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The insider's guide to domestic utensils 
Sometimes one has to take desperate measures when it comes to writing these things, and this is one of those times. Rather than writing about JPW, the Gulf, Florentine Hoelker or, as some people Associate News Editor suggested, their dogs, exploding frogs, or one of the two Patrick J. Clark(e)s on campus, I've chosen a subject close to all of our hearts. 

As a senior I've set aside some special things to do here in South Bend before I graduate and lose the chance. You know, things that reflect the special character of life in South Bend, like hanging out in University Park Mall with high school dropouts and hormone-infected adoles­cents. These are often the same people. 
So yesterday, my roommate Shaun and I went to the mall as one of those last time things, asking shoppers to take pictures of 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
us by the Chick-fil-A sign of ND women's basketball star Karen Robinson. We drifted around for a while, visiting perennial fa­vorites like Osco Drug and Wicks N Sticks. We eventually wandered into the shop called "Lechters" but which I tend to pronounce "Lechers." I always expect some filthy old man to pop out of a corner, eyeing my ten­der young form as I test the Tupperware. 
Enchanted with the ceramic swan de­canters, Shaun walked away, leaving me alone with the kitchen utensils. It was then that the wonders of modern technology and capitalism hit me for the first time in a double whammy. 
I was amazed with the incredible choices 
we, as Americans, have when it comes to 
stocking our kitchens with pragmatic and 
aesthetically pleasing tools. One of the first 
things that caught my fancy was a "self­
cleaning garlic press," a device for all of us 
who have constant trouble cleaning· the 
garlic press we use everyday. Amazing. 
This was next to the amazing Ginsu knife 
set. It dices, slices, cuts, chops, and grooms 
your cat in one. 
Can someone explain what a "meat bailer" is? It sounds painful--is it a torture device? Why does a store sell one of these things, and more importantly, who buys it? Does this have anything to do with the recent in­crease in the sale of war games? 
Only one thing can match the meat bailer, and this is the boning knife. Rather than in­flict unnecessary mental anguish upon the male population, let's just scrape the sur­face and leave it at that. Ouch. 
On the lighter side, I could choose between 
a regular peeler and a peeler with an added 
bean slicer, a choice which all domestically­
inclined persons (note the gender-inclusive 
language) would easily make as the latter. 
Or was it the former? 
With all these choices, can we say any­
thing but: Isn't America great? Rah. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's  Staff:  
VIewpoint Jay Colucci  News Pete Loftus Frank Rivera  Sports Scott Brutocao Mark McGrath  
Systems Gil Gomez Patrick Barth  Accent Michael Krause  Scoreboard: Chris Cooney Production  
Photographers Sean Farnan  Wendy Cunningham Karen Newlove  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
Ex-contra killing creates instability 
•MANAGUA, Nicaragua -President Violeta Chamorro sent a message from Europe on Monday condemning the assassination of former Contra chief Enrique Bermudez as an attack on national stability. Bermudez, 58, was gunned down late Saturday outside the downtown Intercontinental Hotel. Nicaragua's con­servative Roman Catholic prelate, Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, conducted a Mass for Bermudez in Managua on Monday, asking that "the blood that has been spilled serve to help Nicaraguans find harmony and peace." The government has promised a full investigation into the slaying. 
NATIONAL 
Yale student killed during robbery 
•NEW HAVEN, Conn. -A 19-year-old Yale University sophomore has been killed during an apparent robbery at the edge of campus, raising student concerns about campus safety. Christian Prince of Chevy Chase, Md., was found early Sunday a block from his off-campus residence and a short distance from the official residence of the university president, police said. Detective Sgt. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
A Cheerleader and Leprechaun tryouts in­formational meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. 

• 
Auditions for the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre production of "The Good Woman of Setzuan" will be held tonight in the laboratory theater of Washington Hall at 7 p.m. 

• 
Charles Carney of the Passionist Lay Missioners will be in the Library concourse today from 10 a.m. to noon and tomorrow in the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. 

• 
The Diocesan Volunteer of New York program representative Lianne Stevenson will be on campus today and tomorrow, at the esc from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. to 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 15, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINOEX 222.37 Million 201.29 .. 2.37 

S&P COMPOSITE 369.06 • 4.84 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,934.65 • 57.42 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD t $4.1 0 to $ 364.40oz. 
SILVER • 4.3¢ to$ 3.780/oz. 
Joseph Safranek said police believe someone tried to rob Prince. 
CAMPUS 
•soUTH BEND-Singer-song­writer Paul Simon will perform at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center April 16, University officials confirmed yesterday. Simon's 7:30 
p.m. concert is part of his current tour and will feature material from his entire recording career. The Grammy award-winning artist's most recent album, "The Rhythm of the Saints," is currently No. 10 on the Rolling Stone magazine album chart, and features musical styles of South America. Simon's previous album, "Graceland," was heavily influenced by African music. He is one-half of the former folk duo Simon and Garfunkel, whose credits include the soundtrack to the movie, "The Graduate." Tickets for the ND concert will go on sale March 2 at 10 a.m. at TicketMaster outlets. 
answer questions concerning a year of teaching in the Bronx. 
• 
WVFI will hold a meeting at tonight at 7 p.m. in LaFortune for campus bands interested in a special recording project. For more information, call Kevin at 283-1160 or Chris at 283-1832. 

• 
Student Art Forum will meet tonight at 6:45 p.m. in the Conference Room of the Snite. There will be a movie about Andy Warhol for those going on the Hi-Lo trip to Chicago Feb. 23. 

• 
Wednesday lunch tasters and others interested, there will be a 20-minute reflection/silent prayer Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in the C.S.C. The theme is world hunger and peace. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1878: Thomas Edison received a patent for his phonograph. 

• 
In 1942: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an executive order making possible the wartime internment of Japanese­Americans. 

• 
In 1963: The Soviet Union informed President Kennedy it would withdraw "several thousand" of an estimated 17,000 Soviet troops in Cuba. 

•In 
1986: The Senate passed a resolution declaring the Philippine presidential election had been marked by "widespread fraud." The Senate also approved a treaty outlawing genocide, 37 years after the pact had first been submitted for ratification. 

• 
Ten years ago: The Postal Rate Commission approved a three-cent hike for first class mail, raising the rate for letters to 18 cents for the first ounce. 



r-------------------------------------------~---~ -~-­
Iraq is rich with historical sites and legends, prof. says 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Veteran students of World Civilization may have experi­enced deja vu at the Ancient Middle East History and Islamic Tradition lecture at Saint Mary's. 
Professor Kim Flint-Hamilton, visiting history instructor, focused on the archaeological excavations from ancient Me­sopotamia and the most famous rulers of the lime. Slides showfld the region and various artifacts that have been "essential to discovering the past," said Flint-Hamilton. 
"Lots of things have been de­stroyed already," she said. "A bomb has hit the Baghdad Mu­seum of Archaeology" but there hasn't been too much lost yet in the Gulf War bombing. 
By providing a historical summary of four kings along with visual aids, she gave the audience a basis on which to build an appreciation of Me­sopotamia's significant past. 
Dating back to 2700 B.C., Gilgamesh gave an "overall pessimistic view of life." Ac­cording to Flint-Hamilton, the familiar "'Epic of Gilgamesh' tells of his exploits in Uruk" and is one of the earliest ac­counts of ancient Me­sopotamia. 
Sargon of Akkad was the next important figure who was governor of Kish before he overthrew the king. He is known for his birth legend in which he is the illegitimate son of the priestess and put in the Euphrates River in a covered basket. 
The king's daughter found the infant Sargon. His biggest 
contribution was the first unifi­
cation of the Mesopotamian 
Empire, Flint-Hamilton said. 
Although Hammurabi is per­haps best known for his Law Code, it wasn't until his final years that he constructed it. The harsh laws were "based on the theory that when you do something, you get the same in return. It's the eye for an eye theory," said Flint-Hamilton. 
Hammurabi's highlight as king of Babylon was his for­mation of a coalition of Me­sopotamian states that built an army to defend against the Assyrians. Ultimately, Ham­murabi was victorious against them. 
Mock trial team gets 8th in event 
By JOSEPH ADAMS News Writer 
The Notre Dame Mock Trial team placed eighth out of 98 teams that competed in the National Intercollegiate Mock Trial Tournament held last weekend at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa. 
This year marked only the second time that Notre Dame has fielded a team in the com­petition. The team, part of the Mock Trial Association, has finished in the top ten both times, with a fourth place finish last year. Rhodes College of Memphis, Tenn., won the championship for the second 
see TRIAL I page 4 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, FEB.14 
4:30 p.m. A resident of Lyons Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
5:36 p.m. Notre Dame Security escorted a member of Sacred Heart Parish to St. Joseph's Medical Center after she slipped and fell on the ice. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 16 
1:59 a.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported that his truck was stolen out of the D-2 parking lot. 
1:12 p.m. Notre Dame Security assisted a resident of Carroll Hall who was having pains in his back. He was escorted to St. Joseph's Medical Center by an ambulance. 
1:32 p.m. A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that someone had broken into his car and apparently tried to steal it. His car was vandalized and the radio was stolen. The car was parked in the St. Joseph Hall parking lot. 
6:42 p.m. Notre Dame Security was called to Loftus Sports Center to assist a student who had been Injured playing 
soccer. 
SUNDAY, FEB. 17 
2:03 a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped and cited a man who had illegally driven onto campus. 
4:51 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall was bitten by a dog while she was jogging in a residential area on Ivy Road. 
8:45 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported that he was harassed in the 1Oth floor men's bathroom of the Hesburgh Library. 
Correction 
Due to mistakes in a press re­lease from the student govern­ment election committee, the following students' names were misspelled in Monday's an­nouncement of candidates for class office: Bryan Scoular and Heberto Calves, candidates for president of the sophomore class; Emily Liu, candidate for vice president of the sophomore class; Carla Salvucci and Richard Christenson, candidates for treasurer of the sophomore class. 
Camp Vega FOR BOYS FOR GIRLS 5 GLEN LANE P.O. BOX 1771 MAMARONECK, N.Y. 10543 DUXBURY, MA.. 02332 914-381-5983 617-934-6536 STAFFING NOW FOR THE 1991 SUMMER SEASON POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER COUNSELORS WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONG SKILLS AND ABJLJTY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Arts &Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, computer science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General counselors, Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneerfng, Riding, Rocketry, Ropes course, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, support Staff, SWimming, Tennis, Tracl<, Volleyball, Waterskiing, Weight Training, Windsurfing, Woodworking, Yearbook. FULL EIGHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: THURSDAy I FEBRUARY 21ST FROM 11: OOAM-5: OOPM LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER -DOOLEY &  

IN PLAIN SIMPLE ENGL/SII  
Dis-tin /-gwisht to separate or mark off by differences; perceive or show the difference in; differentiate; to be an essential characteristic of; characterize; to perceive clearly; recognize plainly by any of the senses; to separate and classify; give distinction to. one who studies, or investigates. to give by the decision of a law court or arbitrator; to give as the result of judging the relative merits of those in competition; grant. the Dis-tin'-gwisht Stood' -nt a-word' Nomination fonns for the Distinguished Student Award are available in the Alumni Association, LaFortune, the Library Lobby and the entrances of North and South Dining Halls. Who Do You Know?  

4~~e. ND-SMC 
~.... ~.., STUDENTS
(/,~••~ ttndon  18th Annual Program Passpo~~~~Available  
May 22-June 2 1 Travel in Ireland,  June 16-July 15 Travel in France,  

Scotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offererl 1n AI<T, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS HISTORY, EDUCATION, , SOCIOLOGY, IT ALlAN 
MEETING Wednesday, February 20 ** 6:30 prn Carroll Hall, SMC Free Pizza 
Past student and racuny part1c1pants w1ll be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSION FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 0'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE 
132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 4:00PM ON FRIDAY, APRIL 19 

page4 The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
fense of human rights and the revision of the university's goals. 
"We felt it was a student duty to put our efforts and our strength to regaining democ­racy in Chile." Larrain contin­ued. "It was not a political commitment, ... it was more like a human commitment." 
As Christians, the students believed deeply in following in the example of the Catholic Church in Chile. According to Larrain, the Church went be­yond simply praying, putting all of its efforts into improving human rights. 
"We had to be the good 
samaritan in our country," he said. "We saw how many people disappeared, how many were tortured, and we thought, as Christians, that we couldn't just stand and watch what was happening." 
Larrain pointed out that the political mission sometimes conflicted with studies and with university issues, but empha­sized that "if you really believe in love ... then prove it." 
"If we start knowing the real­ity of our country right now," he said. "when we are students, tomorrow, when we are in a specific position ... it won't be the same." 
In other Senate business: 
• The Senate rejected a reso­lution suggesting raising the student activity fee from $55 to $60 for the 1991-92 academic 
Money 
continued from page 1 
endowment has since risen steadily in the rankings. 
The highest endowment was 
year. The bill, written by Manuel Espino and submitted by Student Senator Joe Wilson, was an effort to increase club funds by providing $7. 500 for the Club Coordinating Council to appropriate next year. 
According to some members of senate, there is enough money for clubs, but it is, in some cases, being poorly ap­propriated and misused. In ad­dition, club funds have been in­creasing for the past six years. 
Several members emphasized reported by Harvard University ($4. 7 billion). 
The other schools ahead of Notre Dame, in order, are the University of Texas system; Yale, Princeton, Stanford and 
that clubs should turn to alter­native measures, such as in­creasing club dues, altering club budgets and finding alter­native funding. 
• Senators discussed a change to the Student Body Constitution involving revisions to Freshman class government. The proposal, suggested by Student Body President Rob Pasin, involved holding campus-wide elections for Freshman class president, vice president, treasurer and secretary. 
Columbia Universities; Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy; Washington and Emory Universities; the University of Chicago; Rice, Northwestern and Cornell Universities and the University of Pennsylvania. 
Some members of the Senate suggested instead that fresh­men in each dorm elect a freshman dorm representative. The freshmen representatives would then elect the four offi­cers. The Senate will discuss a revised proposal next week. 
• Senate will vote next week on Senator Lisa Bostwick's proposed change to the Student Body Constitution concerning the reviewing of misused stu­dent funds or misconduct of student organizations and their 
Trial 
continued from page 3 
straight year. "After losing nearly everyone to graduation last year, we were very happy to have con­tinued our presence among the top ten teams," said sophomore Michael Moreland, president of the team. 
In addition to Moreland, the team consists of seniors Carolyn Broering, Brian Cody, Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith, sophomores Hollye Har­rington and Bob Sweeney and freshman Patti Pierson. 
This year's case involved the invasion of privacy and false light portrayal of a college gymnast falsely accused of having AIDS. Participants were judged on performance and knowledge of the case. Teams were required to prepare at­torney and witness roles for both the plaintiff and the de­fense. 
Third-year law students Tina Cabreza and Jennifer Hirschfeld coached the Notre Dame team. 
Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY  
Blahbruary It's February. That means blah time. Tensions run put in it. We overdecorate, over eat, over analyze,just a bit higher. Tempers are just a bit shorter. over love and over live. No room for any emptinessDespondency and despair increase. Enthusiasm whatsoever. So what is Bly talking about? and drive decrease. It happens every year. No one "Emptiness is weakness," we argue. "Poverty is quite knows why, but we all know it to be true. defect. Wounds are the result of some disgrace." Before the blood can begin to flow its springly Not so, says Bly. "Where your wound is, that is course, it seems, it slows down itself and everything where your genius will be." Where you find it serves. Eliot called April the cruelest month, emptiness, that's where your wisdom lies. Where mixing memory with desire. But this month is even you are least accomplished, that's your main talent. more cruel. Memory is short, desire much longer. "Wherever the wound appears in our psyches,Often, the normal pressures of our lives are whether from an alcoholic father, shaming mother, accelerated during this short, murky month. Aches shaming father, abusing mother, whether it stems seem harsher; pains strike deeper; hope is much from isolation, disability or disease, that is precisely more limited; love is distant and wounds take the place from which we will give our gift to the longer too heal. community." Robert Bly, author of the recent best seller: Iron So, February is the month of genius and, as such, John: A Book About Men, seems to understand the month of wounds. So when you feel those February pretty well. He also knows how to get wounds this month, remember: your gift to the through it, without denying its value. community is taking shape. Enjoy! February has a value, and it's a deep and profound one. It's the value of individuality and the most personal aspects of our being wanting to emerge Weekend Presiders at and wanting to do so before their time -before Sacred Heart Church spnng comes. Second Sunday ofLent "Each person's interior emptiness," Bly says, "has Saturday, February 23 its own shape. In ordinary life, we try to satisfy our 5:00 Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. longings and fill the emptiness, but in "ritual space" we learn to experience the emptiness or the longing Sunday, February 24 and not to fill it." 10:00 Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S. C. 11:45 Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. But we're Americans. We fill emptiness. We gather clutter and junk and add to it. If there's a need, we meet it. If there's a blank spot, we buy something to  



The Observer 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 page 5 
IRA explodes bomb at London train station; one dead 
Mario Tricoci gets joked by soccer legend Oscar Fabiani left . 

The incidents were the first attacks on a British rail station credited to the IRA in 15 years. 
The warning was delivered by a man with an Irish accent who said: "We are the Irish Republican Army. Bombs to go off at all mainline stations in 45 minutes," said Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist chief, Cmdr. Ge­orge Churchill-Coleman. 
Churchill-Coleman said the call was only one of a number of threats following the Paddington explosion, and that the others "transpired either to be false or malicious." 
lain McGregor, deputy chief constable of the British Trans­port Police, said his department gets about six bomb threats a day. 
Churchill-Coleman said the warning was passed to the Bri­tish Transport Police, who al­ready were searching all the main railway terminals when the blast at Victoria occurred. 
The bomb, which was hidden in a trash can on the con­course, "was quite deliberately intended to maim and kill," he said. 
British Rail Chairman Robert Reid said it is not unusual for phone lines are choked with Broadcasting Corp. radio. police to keep rail stations open hoax calls. Since these two in­British Rail closed all main­after a bomb warning. cidents we've had hoax calls all line stations in London after the 
"Let's face it, as soon as you the way up the line," Reid said bombings, suspending service have an incident, your tele-in an interview on British that carries 500,000 people into the capital every day. 
Several hours after the Victo­
ria blast, Heathrow airport, 
Britain's busiest, was evacuated 
briefly Monday after police 
received a vague bomb threat, 
an airport spokeswoman said. 

$$$.MONEY $ $ $ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• 
Only 11.99% APR, Fixed • $500 Maximum 

• 
Deferred Payments: You'll have all summer to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


P4. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 
Separate from the Universit 
LONDON (AP) -A bomb ex­ploded at Victoria station dur­ing morning rush hour Monday, 45 minutes after a caller claim­ing to represent the IRA warned of bombs at all of Lon­don's main railway stations, police said. One man was killed and 40 people were injured. 
The Irish Hepublican Army claimed responsibility, but blamed the carnage on authori­ties who decided not to close stations. 
"All future warnings should be acted upon," said a state­ment from the IRA 
The explosion at Victoria sta­tion came less than three hours after a bomb exploded at Paddington station, another main rail gateway to western England and Wales. Only a dozen employees were on duty, and no one was injured. 
The Victoria explosion at 7:46 
a.m. sent screaming com­muters running from the ter­minal, some trailing blood across the concourse. Hail traf­fic to and from London was halted for hours. 
"The cynical decision of se­nior security personnel not to named in secondary warnings, even three hours after the warning device had exploded at Paddington in the early hours of this morning was directly re­sponsible for the casualties at Victoria," the IRA statement said. 


Real Estate AnalystProgram 
CHOOSE YOUR TRACK TOAN MBA! 
Want some rock-solid commercial real estate experience? 
Then consider one of two great opportunities with THE 
PRUDENTIAL. the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're looking for energetic, ambitious BAs and BSs for the following Real Estate Analyst positions: 
• 
Track A -individuals seeking two years of work expenence before applying to top business schools in 1993; and. 

• 
Track B -individuals planning a full-time career while pursu1ng their MBA on an evening/part-time basis. 


To qualify, you need a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude. An intensive training program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
Both programs provide outstanding on-the-job training, experience, and exposure to real estate markets and top Investment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript, by March 1, 1991 to: THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP Chicago Realty Group Office Prudential Plaza Suite 1300-13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601 ATTN: TRACK A OR TRACK B (PLEASE SPECIFY) 
An Equal Opportun1ty Employer 
The Prudential Realty Group ~ 
ThePrudentaalw 

-~~ --~--------------------~--­
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 6 Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
Gorbachev presents secret peace plan to Iraqis 

MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev presented a secret peace plan to Iraq's for­eign minister on Monday, and the Iraqi envoy immediately left for Baghdad to present it to Saddam Hussein. 
Soviet officials, who are rac­ing against the clock in what appear to be the final days be­fore a major ground offensive in the Gulf War, said they ex­pected a quick response from the Iraqi president. 
The Gorbachev plan "envisages political measures which we believe were accepted with interest and understanding by the Iraqi side," according to Vitaly Ignatenko, a spokesman for the Soviet president. 
Ignatenko said Gorbachev planned to contact U.S., British, Italian, French and Iranian leaders to fill them in on his plan. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush will study the Soviet proposal, but was not initially optimistic it would end the war. 
"We still want to take a look at it, but the war goes on. There's no change on the basis of what we know at this point," Fitzwater said. 
Gorbachev's peacemaking ef­forts followed a week of Soviet contacts with nearly every ma­jor player in the month-old war. The Soviet Union has supported 
U.N. efforts to oust Iraq from Kuwait, but has grown apprehensive about the extent of destruction to Iraq, a former Soviet client. 
Both Iraq and the United States have warned that fight­ing will continue and possibly escalate if nothing comes of the contacts. U.S.-led forces were threatening to launch a ground war within days, possibly hours. 
Aziz told reporters before de­parting Moscow for Tehran en route to Iraq that his 3 1/2­hour meeting with Gorbachev 
Kentucky prisoners seek 'dirty dozen' unit 
FRANKFORT, K~ (AP)­Whether motivated by patrio­tism or a chance to get out of prison, Kentucky inmates are volunteering for duty in the Middle East. 
"I guess they all saw 'The Dirty Dozen' or something," said Kentucky Parole Board Chairman John Runda. 
In the 1967 movie, 12 imprisoned soldiers are given a chance to clear their criminal records if they participate in a suicide mission during World War II. 
Runda said nearly 25 convicts have offered their services. Their crimes range from theft to murder. 
One inmate really was called for active duty in his Army Reserve unit. 
"Obviously, he can't go," Runda said. 
The letters he has received all follow generally the same theme, Runda said. The inmates offer to head off to the Middle East for battle if only the state will release them. 
was "important:·· "cordial" and "objective." "We decided to follow up those talks," he added. 
Aziz will return to Moscow "very soon" after discussing the plan with Saddam and his Revolutionary Command Coun­cil, Ignatenko said. 
He called the proposal "a concrete plan for settlement in the Persian Gulf through politi­cal means." He added that it was "fully in line with the So­viet position that there should be an unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait." 
Ignatenko refused to divulge contents of the plan and it was not clear what he meant by "political means." 
But the German newspaper Bild, citing unidentified sources in Moscow, said the Soviet peace plan demands Iraq's un­conditional withdrawal from Kuwait and would bar any punitive actions against Sad­dam. 
Redgrave dropped from tour for remarks 

War 
continued from page 1 
·"concrete plan" for settlement of the gulf crisis, based on an end to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. 
Aziz immediately flew back to Iran, and from there he will head overland to Iraq on Tues­day. The Soviets said they ex­pected a swift response from Sad dam. 
Bush and his top war advis­ers conferred for more than two hours after receiving de­tails of the Soviet proposal, Fitzwater reported in Washing­ton. 
A White House statement noted that Bush promised to treat as confidential a descrip­tive of Gorbachev's proposal, and concluded, "Our military campaign remains on sched­ule." 
At military headquarters in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, the 
U.S. command sounded ready for either a ground war or an extended all-air offensive. 
"It's probably to our advan-
NEW YORK (AP) -Actress Vanessa Redgrave reportedly has been dropped from a na­tional theatrical tour because of her statements on the Persian Gulf War. 
Redgrave was pulled by the Schubert Organization from a starring role in a fall tour of the British comedy "Lettice and Lovage," the New York Post reported Monday. 
"I cannot say anything in re­sponse ... until the Schubert Organization has made an of­ficial statement," Redgrave said in London on Monday night. 
Post gossip columnist Cindy Adams wrote that the move 
tage to have the air campaign go on," said command spokesman Brig. Gen. Richard Neal, "because ... every day our aviation elements are in the air, they're inflicting casualties." 
At the command's daily news briefing, the Marine general re­ported that partly cloudy weather Monday cut into the number of Desert Storm air sorties, reducing them to 2,400 in 24 hours, down from the usual 2,600 or 2,800 of recent days. 
Almost 1,000 missions were flown against the Republican 

Vanessa Redgrave 
was based on Redgrave's politi­cal views on the war -includ­ing her call for the withdrawal of "U.S., British and all imperi­alist troops from the Gulf." 
Shubert Organization offices were closed Monday. The Post said Shubert executive Bernard Jacobs would not comment on the report. 
Redgrave has been an out­spoken supporter of the Pales­tinian cause and an outspoken critic of the attack on Iraq. But on Feb. 8 she took out a news­paper advertisement claiming statements attributed to her about the Gulf War had been printed out of context. 
Redgrave last appeared on Broadway in a revival of Ten­nessee Williams' drama, "Orpheus Descending." · 
Guard and other Iraqi units in Kuwait and southern Iraq, where air strikes are "softening up" the dug-in defenses in advance of a U.S.-led ground assault. 
A recent change in air tactics was giving American warplanes greater success against Iraqi armor and other targets, a U.S. military source said. 
"We're not experiencing too many misses. We're really hav­ing a field day taking out his tanks and artillery," the source said, without elaborating on the new techniques. 
The lost plane was an Air Force F-16 fighter whose pilot bailed out 40 miles inside Iraqi­held territory, Neal said. The spokesman did not specify whether the plane went down in Iraq or Kuwait, and said it was not immediately known whether the jet was shot down or had a mechanical problem. 
Air Force helicopters, pro­tected by warplanes, made a dash into "Indian country," and lifted the airman out the desert, Neal said. "They did a superb job and there was one happy camper of a pilot," he said. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 page 7 
Sensitive sea mines pose dangerous Iraqi threat 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)­One of the two U.S. warships damaged by mines Monday may have been the first victim in the Persian Gulf of a device that goes off when a vessel simply passes by, military officials said. 
The Navy said seven seamen were Injured, four in a pre­dawn blast that ripped a hole in the hull of the helicopter as­sault carrier USS Tripoli, and three in another explosion that damaged the missile cruiser USS Princeton. 
Marine Brig. Gen. Richard Neal said the Tripoli apparently hit a floating contact mine. He said early indications were that the Princeton, one of the Navy's Aegis-type cruisers, was dam­aged by an "influence" mine, beeause "surprisingly, there is no hole." 
If eonfirmed, the appearance of "influence" mines would mark an escalation of the Iraqi mine threat. The devices, de­signfJd to lie on the bottom and explode when triggered by the sound. water pressure or mag­netie attraetion of a ship, are not known to have bfJen used in the gulf before, naval sources said. 
The explosions occurred 2 1/2 hours and about 10 miles apart in the northern gulf, where an amphibious force with some 15,000 Marines is preparing for the possibility of an assault against Iraqi-held Kuwait. 
The 18,000-ton Tripoli, based in San Diego, Calif., carries mine-sweeping Navy heli­copters. The Princeton, from Long Beach, Calif., and equipped with a radar and mis­sile system, has been on anti­aircraft surveillance duty. 
It was the first mine damage to vessels in the gulf since allied forees began building up their navies in the waterway in response to Iraq's Aug. 2 inva­sion of Kuwait. Since then, al­lied navies have found and de­stroyed more than 80 contact mines. 
During the 8-year Iraq-Iran war, both sides sowed contact mines in the gulf, and the de­vices damaged or sank many ships. An American missile frigate, the USS Samuel B. Roberts, was nearly blown in half by an Iranian mine in 1988. 
Senior U.S. naval officers said in 1988 that as many as 200 mines might still be in the northern gulf. Now, U.S. mili­tary sources say they believe Iraq is once again using mines against the more than 100 coalition vessels in the water­way. 
U.S. warships in the gulf op­erate with mine spotters posted on the bow at all times. But floating mines are often diffi­cult to see, particularly in rough waters. 
The Tripoli, an Iwo Jima­class carrier built in the 1960s, hit the mine near the bow and officers initially feared one or two crewmen were blown over­board, Neal said. All the ap­proximately 800 men later were accounted for. 
Flooding in a forward com­partment was controlled and the ship remained "fully mis­sion capable" after repairs to seal a hole in the hull, Neal said. 
Military sources said the 9,500-ton, 2-year-old Prince­ton, which has a crew of 360, suffered structural damage to its hull near the stern and to one propeller, forcing the cap­tain to shut down one of the ship's two turbine engines. 
Naval sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they would not rule out the possibility the Princeton was 
U.S. WARSHIPS STRIKE MINES 
USS Princeton 
Type: Aegis missile cruiser Displacement: 9,460 tons, full load Length: 566 feet Crew:358 Commissioned: Feb. 11, 1989 
Type: Amphibious assault ship Displacement: 18,000 tons, full load Length: 600 feet Crew: 686 
Source: Janes
Commissioned: Aug. 6, 1966 Fighting Shivs 
damaged by a a eontact mine, when water is disturbed by a but suggested the damage was ship's propellers. more like that caused by a Four Tripoli seamen were mine exploding underneath the treated on board for minor in­ship. juries. The Princeton's three in­
jured crewmen were evacuated 
They said it could have been to a British vessel for treat­an acoustic mine, triggered by ment. One was listed in serious the sound of a ship's engines, condition and the others were or a pressure mine that reacts in good condition, Lt. Ken when a ship passes overhead or Cronk said. 
U.S. officials speculate on overthrow of Hussein 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Since the Persian Gulf War began, rumors that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein might be over­thrown have filtered to the West routinely, fanned by relentless bombing that has damaged his best military units and interrupted his communieation with them. 
Thus far, U.S. officials say they have seen no evidence of an attempt by military com­manders or others to oust Sad­dam -whose overthrow was publicly invited by President Bush on Friday. 
But Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said over the weekend that the Iraqi president has lost some control of his military be­cause the allies have "interfered so much with his command and control system, his communications." 
And Cheney said bomb dam­age inflicted on the military might be "an incentive" for se­nior commanders to replace Sad dam. 
Cheney, in a CNN interview, said the faet that several hun­dred soldiers have defected and reports that large numbers are absent without leave indicate there is dissent in the military. 
"Whether or not there's any dissent at the upper levels is very difficult to say," he added. 
Gen. Thomas Kelly, head of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. military had heard reports of attempts to overthrow Saddam. 
"We've beard rumors, too, but we can't base any kind of judgment on that," he said. 
A top senior administration official said there was no evi­dence that Saddam was politi­cally or physically at risk. 



We're looking for seniors who like 
working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Fann. 
At State Farm, we Wlderstand the concept of "work:' Believe it or no~ we also W1derstand U1e concept of"plaY:' 
That's because we don't Ulink you can be really oul.:;tancling at the first without having an appreciation for U1e second. Which is exactly why a career at State Farm in Bloomington could be U1e ideal place for you. 
You'll work for one ofthe coW1trys most respected companies on the most advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. You'll be rewarded with excellent pay and benefits. You'll make your classmates very envious. . 
What'S more, you'll also have time to appreciate the finer things in life. That's because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if, 
indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the comrnW1ity's pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll find two Wliversities that offer a host of 

cultural and social activities to fake advantage of 
Ifyou're a senior with a math, accoW1ting, data processing, or computer science background, come talk to us at your college placement office. We're looking for people who are motivated and outgoing. People who enjoy challenges on the job -and away from it. After all, you're not just looking for a great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. 
sa'•" State Fann
•nM Insurance '"suuNc~ Companies 
Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. An equal opportllllity employer. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, February 19, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 


.;; ....-. 
····-·· ~-·_........ ·:···''"f''""''';;.;.(,:.-::;;.:--·
_..... w .­
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
War contradicts man's need to love his neighbor 
Dear Editor: paves the way to a world where same characteristics are found liberty of a Kuwaiti while thus excluded from morality. 
It is with great stress that I love can exist. Yet the world's at the base of all the vices of denying that of an Iraqi, I have Further, war cannot be an face the knowledge that my present situation hardly agrees contemporary American and chosen to consider these two effective means to create a species has chosen to undertake with this theory. By the time the European society: murder, rape, people not in terms of their better world, since it is yet another suicide attempt. I last bombs of one war have drug addiction, materialism, humanity (which they share impossible that God would cannot help but believe that the fallen, seeds of another war racism, sexism, homophobia, equally), but rather according to create a world that could be Gulf War will be as immoral, as have been planted: the etc. Thus, it can truly be said their relative usefulness to me made good through evil means. senseless and as tragic an arrogance and contempt of the that nowhere has man ceased to and to the political and Therefore, if the world is activity as every war to precede victors, the bitterness and be at war with himself. economic system which salvageable, then it can only be it. resentment of the vanquished. The estrangement from supports me. In making the saved through peaceful means. 
War is wrong because it Hence the difficulty of finding a humanity which the American choice to rob some people of There is, however, no contradicts man's deepest need lasting peace in the war torn and European feels is their lives in order to benefit guarantee that the world can be and the main requirement for countries of Africa, Asia, manifested in his propensity for others, I deny the innate worth saved, even through good his happiness: the need to act Central America and, of course, exporting war to other of the individual in favor of a actions. Indeed, the world's lovingly towards one's fellow the Middle East. countries, whether it be the U.S. value based on circumstantial major religions have been creatures. Indeed, if there can The partisan of war might in Vietnam, the U.S.S.R. in preferences. I thus regress from careful to remind the faithful exist such a thing as morality, then point to the seemingly Afghanistan, Britain in Biafra, the morality of love to the that good deeds do not always love must be its basis. If human successful achievement of peace or France in Algeria. Whatever amorality of egoism. reap earthly rewards. love did not exist, any concept in Europe and America initiated was accomplished by World War It is even more difficult to Nevertheless, we must utilize of morality would be fraudulent, by the end of World War II. II, it was not peace. War is support the concept of war if our love in the faith that loving since, lacking any sense of the This, however, is a deceptive incompatible with the love ethic one accepts the existence of actions can bring results and in value of others, the individual observation. In a purely inasmuch as it negates the God. Whereas man may or may the understanding that unloving would seek only to act in his external sense, war is a conflict value of the individual. If one is not be loving or beautiful actions condemn the world to own self-interest. The between military forces, and, to adopt the love ethic, he or depending on his behavior, stagnation in a sad mediocrity. consensus held by all but the according to this terminology, she must agree to the there is no such distinction with Jesus Christ once said to his most avowed pessimists and one would be correct in saying proposition that a human be_ing God, who is not simply loving disciples "whatsoever you do to cynics, however, affirms a belief that there has not been war in must never be used as a means, and beautiful, but is Love and the least of my brothers, that in the veracity of human love Europe or America for a long but only as an end. This is Beauty; a pure and perfect you do unto me." It is doubtful and thus of human worth. time. Unfortunately, the reality impossible in war, since one essence. Clearly, if God exists, that he meant to exclude Iraqis 
Is it not possible for a war to is not that simple. For at the judges one's countrymen and then only actions which coincide from his brethren. be consistent with a love ethic? heart of war lies the profoundly allies by a different standard with divine nature can be It has been thoroughly argued disturbed state of the human than one uses in judging one's considered moral, while all Paul Rowe that war is a necessary evil, a psyche, fraught with fear and enemies. others are immoral. War, a Angers , France painful state of purgation which hatred, despair and anger. The If I affirm the right to life and hateful and ugly endeavor, is Feb.12,1991 
JPW should not take place during winter months 
Dear Editor: crushed by tons of snow, personally like winter weather, however, that a lesson is over this past weekend without 
I am writing to ask a very dreadful winds and a biting but the fact remains that an learned by this catastrophe and my parents. simple question: why is Junior wind chill. important experience was that better judgement is used in Parents Weekend scheduled in ruined for me by bad planning­the future so that others do not Julie Sweet the middle of February? Even the parents that did scheduling JPW in the heart of have to endure the same Knott Hall Everyone knows the arrive safely were probably winter. In the past, JPW has disappointment that I have had Feb.17,1991 unpredictability of South Bend upset about travelling and being also been icy and cold, so why weather, and this weekend's in this weather, especially those does it continue to be placed at past blizzard proves it. This families from warmer climates. such an awful time of the year? weather kept my parents from We are willing to accept it for even attempting the journey to the most part, but why should My dreams for any JPW have Notre Dame because of fear for they be forced to endure it? been ruined, as were the their safety, and three years of I realize that no one can dreams of many of my fellow anticipation for my JPW were control the weather, and I classmates. I sincerely hope, 
DOONESBURY 

7Htst PflJPit A5 WNG A5 
THC. IJRLJMMING '!iTARTW a!ITH AI<£~51? 7Hif.Y PON'T 
AN{)]IBU/A TR/!3111..-a5I<CMONY 70 BAN6ANAY 8XC/3l3D 7Hif. 
LA5T l?UEMBeF.. OTH!R ANTI­IN FRONTOF tl!6AI.A-IM!T 
/AlAR Pf?/JT&STf./<5 fi4V8 7Hif.I.I/Hill3Ha/5,1; Of(;()Pf3?1­
!<EPT IT UP 8V/3R
/?AYANIJN/6HT2 
SINCe. \ 
.L'tJE&; r 
Y(){)aJANT NOWAY, JV'3t! ..,-0 J(l''N I 5l/PPORT Cf!R. 
rc vn !AJAR POUCY/ THt!J', !(}(}%! IT'S CUR 
U. TROOPS I CAN'T ABIIJ& 1 
YOU KNOIAJ HOIAJ OUR. MUCH MAIL. 77-10'38 
TROOPS? BOZOS G&T? HeY, I'IJVK/3A FAN&Y ARJ !30X, T()r0 E3UT NOOO-I'MA\ OVIUAN.1 
~I til''-. 
' Make it thy business to know thyself,which is the most difficult lesson in the world.' 
Miguel de Cervantes 

---------------------------------------------------------------~------------------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 page 9 
Welfare system can create more problems than it solves 
One of the favorite topics for newspaper columnists to write about is how the United States spends far too mueh on the mil­itary and not enough on social welfare. By the sounds of politicians and columnists sueh as .Jesse .Jackson and others of liberal persuasion, we must spend at least twiee as mueh on defense as on welfare, right? Wrong. 
Half of the federal budget goes into social welfare pro­grams, and one-quarter to one­third (depending on the fiscal year) of the federal budget goes to defense. This has not always been the ease. In fiscal year (FY) 1956, the military expen­ditures of the United States comprised 64.8 percent of the federal budget, and 14.6 per­een t of the nation's gross na­tional product (GNP). Welfare was 12.9 percent of the budget. One of every twelve citizens re­ceived half or more of their in­come from the federal govern­ment. (All figures are taken from the U.S. Office of Management and Budget an­nual reports.) In FY 1989, de­fense had shrunk to 27 percent of the budget and half of its 1956 share of the GNP. Welfare had risen to 4 7 percent of the federal budget, more than quadrupled its share of the (;NP, and one in five citizens had come to rely on govern­ment for more than half of their income. 
The bureaucratic monolith that the social welfare system has become now severely limits the ability of government to undertake necessary budget re­forms and tax cuts. But this should not be a debate only about numbers. We should con­sider the detrimental effects of our welfare system as well. The welfare society has undermined the social fabric of the United States, just as welfare societies have been destroying them­selves from within for the en­tire history of civilization. The programs that the Great Society architects established in the 1960s have had exactly the opposite effects than predicted. We now have more crime, not less; more poverty, not less; less families, not more. 
B becomin chief 
prov er or m ons o Americans, the government has interceded in millions of com­plex interpersonal relationships that would otherwise be estab­lished. Why should children rely on parents when they can turn to governments for support? Why should fathers marry the mothers of their children, or provide child support, if the government is going to provide for them? Why should one provide for one's self if the government will do it? The concept of personal responsibility has been mitigated by what's come to be known as the social safety net. 
The stigma of being on wel­fare, which used to keep people willing to work at anything rather than go on the dole, has been transformed into the no­tion that manual labor is low, and welfare is better than working some jobs; thus, 
By Michael J. Swope 
Guest Columnist 
immigrants with no pockets, much less something to put in them, end up with the lowest jobs but working their way up the ladder of success-the real Americans. 
Professional welfare advo­cates haughtily presume that government can, with the is­suance of checks and social 
out individual stories of failure that now reside at the bottom of the social ladder. Cases of fourth­generation welfare families are now being documented, The nation now rewards failure with financial support and security, while it punishes work with taxes. 
At this point some of you are probably thinking "What a mean guy. He calls poor people failures. Where's his compas­sion?" Too often in this country, we equate compassion with saying "yes." What we do is an attempt to assuage our wrongly founded feelings of guilt that some individuals are more successful than others with guilt money. This reveals a contradiction in the American psyche: we want to do well, but we feel bad about it. So what the society has done has been to establish a system under which the government is as­signed the task of being the caretaker of the underclass. It doesn't work, and it never has. No government will ever give a person ambition; no govern­ment can make a person bril­liant; no government can live an individual's life; no government can make all the many choices individuals must make. Each of the people on welfare is an individual, each 
w a story to te . They receive their checks, some because they want to, some because they need to. Welfare rolls keep rising, hope keeps falling. 
The welfare system absolutely should not be increased at all. It should be substantially diminished. The duty of citizens to not become burdens on society needs to be enforced. That does not mean we should close our eyes to bad times, as everyone has down times in their life. Start by ensuring that the handicapped are provided for {which isn't a problem) and then consider welfare for the non­handicapped (which is an enormous problem.) 
We can have welfare with strict limits, perhaps 26 weeks worth in any three year period for need of any reason, with another caveat: you have to be a taxpayer. No taxes, no wel­fare-people who contribute to society can get something back; those who want a free ride can do without. Is this suggestion harsh? Admittedly so, with a purpose: force people to make decisions to improve them­selves, and force upon individu­als the realization that they are ultimately responsible for their conduct and well-being, which includes feeding themselves and getting an education (instead of marking time in classes and getting a piece of paper at the end.) 
We have to end the handout system. There is an adage that goes something along the lines of "give a man a fish dinner, and you feed him for a meal; teach him to fish, and you feed him for a lifetime." The easy choice is to send checks. However, the notion of com­passion means having sympa­thy for an individual's problems and having the desire to allevi­ate the problems. 
By saying yes to the welfare system, we do the easy, but wrong thing and we create more problems as a result. By saying no, we make the difficult decision, which is ironically more compassionate in the long run by forcing people to suc­ceed or fail on their individual merits. That would reinforce a notion that I understand as be­ing fundamental to being an American: with the right to make choices comes the re­sponsibility to live with the con­sequences. 
Michael J. Swope is a gradu­ate student in History and serves as Policy Analyst for the Iceberg Debates Standing Committee. 
Welfare should be increased and spent more effectively 
Suzanne Fitzgerald 
are trained so that they are Guest Columnist employable and actually do get out and find jobs. The result is In order to arrive at an that they are more capable opinion on the social welfare providers-in both physical and system, one ought to clearly emotional terms-and offer ap­understand the terms of the propriate role models for their debate. There are many mis­children. Studies further show conceptions about America's that the welfare system does 
•
welfare complex, as David T. not provide enough assistance Ellwood points out in his book, of this sort. Consequently, after ~ Support. First of all, the locating affordable housing and public is generally unaware attending to other basic needs, that the bulk of the welfare ex­there is nothing left over to penditure is directed toward escape the cycle and work one's helping the aged and disabled, Charles Murray in Losing later. We are forced to target transportation, child care and way out. Simply, there is no a cause few would question as Ground points out, and I do not beyond the symptoms and treat social services necessary for money for necessities like lngitimate. A large sum is also deny, the system which was in­the causes of poverty. In heightened self-esteem. Despite transportation to and from a spent on medical care. tended to assist the poor has material terms, this means the overwhelming reports of the job and no money for day care. Thernfore, when one examines bred a cycle of dependency enhancing the system to offer welfare system's failings, the Policies which target the transi­thn amount actually allocated which, as Ellwood summarizes, real help to these people. achievements of these types tional welfare recipients have for cash. food or housing for "penalizes the virtuous and re­According to Ellwood, we need programs which aim at self­demonstrated their effective­the healthy, young poor, one wards the dysfunctional." to "increase both the security sufficiency are underreported. ness and deserve increased discovers that such money, in Herein lies the heart of the and the responsibility of poor Among the most effective pro­support. reality, is less than 4 percent of problem. We are now at a families." grams is the Special Lastly, we must not abandon the total spent by the govern­reckoning point and are forced There are three broad cate­Supplemental Food Program for the long-term dependents. We ment for welfare. Further, the to own up to this legacy of fail­gories in which the social wel­Women, Infants and Children should not continue blatant subsidies to the non-aged, low ure. fare system be augmented to {WIC) which shows a decline in handouts, but, nevertheless, we income individuals are less The remedy? There should provide active support which infant mortality and higher should increase our commit­than 1.5 percent of the national be a substantial increase of the helps people survive on their birth weights as well as better ment to the victims of earlier income. Still, this is the welfare system as we currently own. First, we are compelled to health for mothers and their systematic failings by providing expenditure that Americans understand it. The increase assist the struggling. We must children. Each $1 spent today services contingent upon their think of as "welfare" and to should occur by a broadening of provide supplemental supports on this program is estimated to performance. which the public objects. The commitment, conceptually and to those who are working, try­save $3 in future federal health basic sentiment is that we physically. We need to increase ing to live out the myth of the outlays. Certainly this program Briefly, in order to solve the should stop the handouts in our responsibility from the American dream, but who can­is worthy of increases beyond current, oft-called "Band-aid," order to foster incentive in the limited notion of "handouts" to not escape poverty because its current level. approach to poverty we must "lazy" recipients, whose values a deeper solution so that we they fall outside the realm of increase our commitment, by have been corrupted by the may break the dependency welfare system benefits as they Other examples of highly applying a "full cast." In doing system. Despite these prevalent cycle, which will aid the poor are currently defined. Second, effective programs include the this, the injuries bred by the so­attitudes, evidence to support and reduce future costs. we should be more generous to West Garfield Park Program in cial welfare system may heal, the notion that welfare plays a Through this remedy, we will those in need of transitional ChicagQ, the "Moms on the the American people will grow part in changing values or the not deny our existing obligation support by designing more Move Program" in Westchester strong and will ultimately walk structure of the family is paltry to the dependents promulgated policies which furnish an County, New York, and "Project on their own. at best. by the system and society, but escape from the cycle. In fact, Self-Sufficiency" in a number of 
However, I do not contend we will foster ultimate goals of these types of programs histor­New Jersey counties. The re­Suzanne Fitzgerald is a that the social welfare system is self-sufficiency. We must spend ically have achieved the great­sults of these programs have Senior Government major and flawless. Indeed, the institution more now in order to truly help est success. These programs proven that in providing the a member of the Iceberg is replete with problems. As others and so that we may save provide education, job training, necessary support, these people Debates Standing Committee. 

-------~---~-----------­
---~-­
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
5 O'Clock Shadows head for Fredrock 
By PAUL BREGANDE Accent Writer This weekend, when the con­crete walls of Club 23 are re­verberating with rock and roll and the beer-soaked floors of Bridget's are being tested for dancing durability, the energy of Notre Dame's campus music scene will be felt far from the dome. The 5 O'Clock Shadows, Notre Dame originals, will take to the east this Friday to per­form at Fredrock, the premier music festival of the Fredonia  o'clock. "We don't take ourselves too seriously," confesses guitarist Marc Conklin, "we're just three guys who really couldn't have fun doing cover songs. I guess we just like to do our own thing." Doing your own thing, that is, playing all original mu­sic, is not normally well re­ceived by the mainstream Notre Dame audience, and the band admits that this can be frus­trating.  Vocalist/bassist Billy Schaffier and drummer Tom Guinan joke about an incident that occurred at a play-date last month. "This guy yells out 'play something we know'," says Bill, "and then he asks me if we know Free Bird. I thought he was kidding." But this attitude is nothing new at Notre Dame. While polished cover bands are virtually guaranteed a receptive audience, original musicians often struggle for  acceptance. This high-energy trio seems to have transcended this barrier in recent weeks, as students are packing in all of their performances. Shadowheads, as their loyalists are affectionately dubbed, catch them regularly at Club 23 and Bridget's, though the band has entertained select campus functions as well. Though merely a trio, The 5 0' Clock Shadows maintain a  surprisingly "big sound." Their music, which has been heard on WSND radio and at Senior Bar, among other places, reveals a broad spectrum of influences. Conklin, who names Stevie Ray Vaughn as his primary influence, delivers crisp, clean guitar riffs that are unmistakably the blues. Yet the energetic output is more reminiscent of U2's The Edge, yielding an appealing dance-oriented sound. Schaffler's bass seems to play on its own, effectively shaping  
State University School of Music in Western New York.  the moods of each song. And Guinan, the group's feverish  
Located just south of Buffalo, the tiny lake-side village of Fredonia is no stranger to the music scene. The Fredonia  drummer, never misses a beat, providing an intensity that is tough to rival. But the catalyst remains  
State campus and downtown pubs have seen the likes of The Ramones, Davy Jones of The Monkees, Michael Stipe of R.E.M., and is home to the renowned 10,000 Maniacs. The Maniacs' latest album, subtitled The Fredonia Recordings, is a testament to the school's musi­ Schaffler's soothing, resinous, yet powerful tenor, which seems to invoke The Smiths' Morrissey in every breath. All this together yields a fresh, innovative sound which is liked virtually at the point of impact. From their fusion-based "Bee Slippers" and pop-rock "Not  
cal reputation. In December, under the auspices of sound recording engineer Joseph Bregande, the 5 O'Clock Shadows had the  Knowing With Love" to the Spanish twelve string guitar of "Rolling 187," The 5 0' Clock Shadows are ultimately difficult to categorize. But, as Conklin  
privilege of record~ng in the very studio where The Maniacs launched their career. The  notes, "it's kind of distressing, actually, if we sound like any­body but ourselves."  
resulting demo tape so impressed the selection committee of the Fredrock  This attitude should be well received this weekend at Fredrock, where originality is  
festival that the Notre Dame  The Observer/Chris Lowe  the norm, and Notre Dame's  
trio was offered an invitation to  edition  of  high-energy  
play this Saturday, February 23, oddly enough, at five  The Notre Dame band The 5 O'Clock Shadows: (1-r) Marc Conklin, Tom Guinan, and Bill Schaffler. The band, which plays all original music, will be appearing at Fredonia State University School of Music in New York.  progressive dance invades the east.  music  

Volunteer work after graduation is an alternative for seniors 
A year ago it would have It's not always an easy decision, Most simply we try to be a opportunity to be working been a strange dream. But and considering volunteering catalyst or resource for a whole instead for the improvement of 
By DAVE KINKOPF 
towards the end of my senior as an option makes it harder. variety of improvements in the human life. year, I decided to volunteer for But if you have some dreams community. What you plan to do next
Overseas Columnist 
a year after graduation, and about the good you can do in There have been difficult mo­year is too important of a some dreams and stranger the world, don't be afraid to try ments: a new language, a decision to let pass by without things became my life. to live them. rose above the pressure to foreign culture, different serious consideration. Have 
Here I was in Puerto Rico In honesty, volunteering is not "succeed" (succeed in a sense challenging responsibilities, faith in your idealism, your with a group of about five ninth all a bowl of cherries. At times that I didn't really agree with), and separation from those you dreams, and act from your graders, in a beat-up old room it is shocking, frustrating, and I realized that volunteering care about. And while there heart. Keep thinking of without any lights, as darkness lonely. But volunteering chal­would be anything but taking a aren't always as many pats on volunteering as an excellent was settling in on our after­lenges you in ways unlike you year off and in fact would be the back, there are many more option. For many of us it is the school tutoring program. They have been challenged before. It getting on with the life that I tugs at your heart. were studying Greek questions, confuses, and frus­want to lead. For me there has been a civilization in their Social trates you, but also deepens I joined a program called sense of honesty, commitment 
'Last year I hoped, 
Studies class and as usual they your understanding and creates Notre Dame for Puerto Rico. and satisfaction that is difficult were more interested in doing new perspectives. Five of us Notre Dame to achieve from studying. I'm but now I'm anything other than their I would like to talk a little bit graduates work together with sure that many of you can homework. about my own experience Puerto Ricans at the Barrio relate to this from your own convinced that a year 
because I hope it will be helpful Palmas Youth Association, involvement in service work at away from school or for the many of you considering located in an urban Notre Dame. It's a feeling volunteering for a year. It also neighborhood outside San which is magnified greatly a career can be a
And while there 
might create some interest in Juan, the capital of Puerto Rico. when that service becomes the 
aren't always as participating in the specific focus, the essence of your life. very good idea.' program with which I am in­Since we live a couple houses But I have come to realize 
many pats on the volved. away from the Association, we that volunteering is not as best way to begin the "real Last year as a second have had the opportunity to be­much about giving or taking as world."
back, there are many 
semester senior, I really had no come a significant part of the it is about experiencing and more tugs at your clear idea what I was going to community, which has certainly sharing. Therefore, it is Mary Ann Roemer and the be doing after graduation. I had been one of the most valuable important to enter the right Center for Social Concerns have 
heart.' what seemed like eight million aspects of my experience here. program and to remain open great information and advice applications at different schools The Association, comprised of towards your experience about what types of service are and volunteer programs. And I dedicated people from the com­throughout. available. Talk to them, and if 
Within about a half hour, be­felt pulled between "getting on munity, addresses some of the you are interested in the Notre tween my broken Spanish and with my life" and "taking a year major problems facing the Last year I hoped, but now Dame for Puerto Rico program, fading memories of Homeric off." neighborhood: poor education, I'm convinced that a year away please do it quickly because in­Greek and their enthusiasm I felt some kind of fear that I poverty, unemployment, illiter­from school or a career can be terviews will be held the week and love of M.C. Hammer, they would lose an edge or acy, family difficulties, lack of a very good idea. I don't think it of February 25. were reciting the first couple something by not going straight alternatives, and much more. will take very long to reorient And if my description of our lines of the Odyssey in original on. I was also impatient just to Therefore the five of us work myself into the study groove program wasn't enough to · Greek to a rap beat and dance. decide already. I was sick of with members of the barrio in a and I will certainly have some interest some of you, consider I'm not sure if Homer smiled or taking a half hour to answer large tutoring and sports pro­practical experiences to more that Puerto Rico now, at its rolled over in his grave, but I'll the simple question "What are gram for children, a daily soup fully understand the complexity coldest, drops to the upper 60's certainly always remember that you going to do next year?" kitchen/outreach center and a of certain issues which I plan to -and I mean above zero. afternoon. But I knew that my decision self-employment service. We pursue. 
So what are you going to do was too important to rush or to also have a library and offer And especially at this Dave Kinkopf graduated from after graduation? You seniors be made out of fear. Being hon­classes for people who have moment, during a war which is Notre Dame in 1990, after know this question well, and it est with myself, when I interrupted their education or taking so many lives, I am very serving as student body vice is especially to you that I write. overcame my own fears and who cannot read and write. thankful to God that I have the president. 

Court threat may have spared Runnin' Rebels 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­The threat of players filing suit and getting around a ban on this year's NCAA basketball tournament was a factor in letting unbeaten UNLV defend its title, an in­fractions eommittee member said. 
"To say we did not diseuss that in the total perspective of the deeision would be false," Hoy Kramer, commissioner of the Southeastern Conference, said Monday. "But to say that was the absolute thing that swayed the final decision would not be true." 
Sources who requested anonymity have said the possibility of a restraining order from Nevada courts was the main reason for the committee's unprecedented reversal to let the No. 1 Hunnin' Hebels compete. 
One irony to the commit­tee's possibly being intimi­dated by the threat of legal action is the fact the NCAA won a 5-4 decision in the U.S. Supreme Court in December 1988 in connection with the UNLV ease. The high court reversed a Nevada court ruling that coach Jerry Tarkanian's rights to due pro­cess in the recruiting 
violations case had been violated. 
Then, the committee ruled last summer that UNLV would not be allowed to play in this year's tournament. However, after another hearing re­quested by the school, the committee reversed itself and gave UNLV two alternative penalties to choose from. The school, with four returning starters, chose to give up tele­vision appearances and a tournament bid next year in order to play in this year's tournament. 
Kramer said UNLV officials raised the possibility of players' filing suit and getting a temporary restraining order against the committee's ban. By the time the legal system had run its course, the tournament would have been over, and the NCAA would have been powerless to punish the school since it was the players bringing suit. 
"It was the committee's belief that because of the timing of the case and the tournament, that was a possibility, yes," Kramer said. "That was a part of the school's presentation. 
"I wouldn't say it was the biggest part. But they did bring it up, although not in a threatening way." 
Belles fall to Wisconsin-Parkside, 83-68 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team suffered a discouraging 83-68 loss Sunday to University of Wisconsin-Parkside after playing exceptionally well throughout the entire first half. 
The Belles played better than they have played all year in the first half offensively and defen­sively. but the opponent came out strong to dominate in the end. 
"All the right things happened at the right places and at the right times in the first half," said Belles coach Marv Wood. "The team handled the ball ex­tremely well and a lot of good things happened." 
Saint Mary's had very few turnovers in the first half and the defense as a whole was ex­tremely effective. Both teams shot well, but the Belles' de­fense contained the University of Wisconsin. 
The Belles' offense was able to capitalize using their man-to­man offense, and they led 43-40 at the half. 
Alexander 
continued from page 16 
aging 14 points and 13 re­bounds as a senior at Brandywine. For he~ the biggest adjustment from high school has included the realiza­tion that, even now as a starter, she will not receive a great 
"We were extremely strong in the first half," said senior for­ward Linda Garrett. "We were setting the screens and making all the shots." 
"The team played a solid 20 minutes of basketball," added senior guard Mea Tetterborn. "It was fun and we played re­ally well." 
"We had beautiful balance in the first half," said Wood. "Everything went our way. 
Juniors Janet Libbing and Catherine Restovich each tallied 11 points and sophomore Kim Holmes contributed eight to add to the team effort. 
The game reversed in the sec­ond half when the Wisconsin­Parkside came out aggressively. The Belles were held to one field goal in the first 11 minutes of the second half. 
"University of Wisconsin­Parkside played good basketball in the second half handling the ball extremely well," said Wood. " They switched to their zone offense, had good shots, and kept us off the boards." 
quantity of playing time. 
Having to share minutes with Krissi Davis, Margaret Nowlin and Kristin Knapp has meant having her fair share of bench time. 
"Everybody's used to playing, but when you don't, it's no big deal. It makes you work harder to get to play," Alexander said. "My biggest goal right now is 
"They adjusted to. our game and we struggled throughout the second half," added Garrett. 
The Belles travel up the road to face cross-town rival Bethel College tonight. Bethel has worked hard all year and a win will make their season. 
Saint Mary's is ready for this Bethel team, which runs an of­fense similar to the Belles'. 
The Belles have won every game against Bethel in the past six seasons, and they hope to continue that tradition. They will attempt to accomplish this by going after Bethel with their quickness and shutting down their offense. 
"Bethel runs a lot of nex on offense and I think defensively we are ready," said Wood. "We will have to play real tough with a lot of running and fast breaks." 
"We anticipate their passes and as a result hopefully we'll start our offense," said Tetterborn. 
The game is important for the Belles; who look to end the season with a winning record. 
working myself hard enough so that when they put me in, I can do what they want me to do." 
Tonight's opponent, Saint Louis, is a team Alexander characterizes as "playing with a lot of heart." 
The Billikens have lost their last six games by an average of 
36.7 points, scoring an average of only 52.3 points per game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifleds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all
Classifieds 
spaces. 
I NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NY TIMES, used and new books LOST: BROWN PAIR OF NICE "2 1 -way airline tickets to San GLOVES WITH LEATHER Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 STRIPES. PLEASE CALL #1654. 684-7203." 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.
CwANTED 
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. ACCENT ON FUN I Coed, Office near campus. 
...EXPO ROMA ...  •• Spring Break Money ••  
...EXPO ROMA'..  Notre Dame Fed Credit Union  P.P.S. To Herbie-lf I catch you  
...EXPO ROMA'..  No Co-Signer Necessary  doing any such thing in the near or  
This week at Architecture Building.  .. See Our Ad ..  distant future, no BL's for you I KT  

i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for  C.C. in PE, you still haven't fig- 
spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a  urad it out. Hope the rose is nice.  Brillo,  
great rider.  Remit here.  What are we going to do with  

Pandora's Books 233-2342  sleepaway camp in Massachusetts  Louise-parting is such sweet  
corner of ND ave. & Howard  seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI,  1/2 of round trip TIX to  SPRING BREAK SPECIAL  Bernard,  sorrow??? Happy Birthday,  
10-5:30 everyday  lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all  La Guardia Airport  SAVE SAVE SAVEll  I can't wait to see your Eiffel Tower  Babyllll  
land & water sports, fitness,  Leaves Mar 9 Sat from SB  CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK  rising above my Arc de Triomphe in  Love and kisses,  
WORD PROCESSING -Term  gymnastics, piano/play for shows,  @12:25pm  OF FUN AND SUNil  the City of Love. Seriously, I want  Your adorable roommates  
papers. reports, letters, etc.  drama, judo, dance, archery,  Call X1346 Annie  SUN SPLASH TOURS  to get a villa in the South of France  
Experienced legal secretary.  photography, computers, model  1-800-426-7710.  where we can do a little work on  
(616) 699-7387.  rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness,  1-Way air ticket, SB-Tampa, 10 Mar. 7 am. $85. Call 272-7503.  .........................  the ND/SMC systems connection (heh, heh). Way to work your  Kara Duncan's Top Ten Things she wants for her birthday:  
SOPHOMORES Ill  woodwork, RN.  ·sENIORS•SENIORS'SENIORS'  modem, Bernie.  1) a pack of cigarettes, but don't  
Are you ready for Advanced Registration beginning April 8 ?  6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY  TICKETS  Love and hard drives, C.P.  give her any no matter what she says she'll do.  
Have you selected your major?  10707. 800-955-CAMP.  SENIOR FORMAL IS JUST 2  2) a man.  
FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,MI to  MONTHS AWAYIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIII!III  Monica Yant,  3) a beer-or two.  
If you answered NO, consider  EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/B,return 3/17,  I've been to the clinic. I tested  4) a candle-her favorite flavor is  .....  
registering for CAREER/MAJOR  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  must be female, VERY CHEAP I  positive. You had better get  hollyberry.  
DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP  CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  x4859  TONIGHT AT THE ALUMNI- yourself checked out.  5) a pack of cigarettes.  
starting the week of February 18th at the University Counseling Center. Call 239· 7336 to register or for more information  FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM $1000 in just one week. Earn up to $1 000 for your campus  I  PERSONALS  I  SENIOR CLUB: "GOT A DATE/GET A DATE" PARTY (FROM 9 UNTIL 2).  Love, Herbie P.S. Aren't you glad I'm back to putting personals in?  6) another man, she is so horny. 7) a room in Morrissey 8) underwear-lots and lots of underwear.  
organization. Plus a chance at  Kerry Clair and Maria Blohm are  9) a pack of cigarettes.  
Summer Programs in London  $5000 morel This program works I  CLUB 23  $2 AT THE DOOR ENTERS YOU  losers.  1 0) a new head of hair, preferably  
(May 22-June 21) or Rome (June 16-July 15). Courses in  f•o investment needed. Call 1­800-932-0525 Ext. 50.  Daily Specials. New addition:  IN SPRING DRAWING. PRIZES INCLUDE:  News Flash:  straight.  
art, business. education, history, Italian, and sociology. Meeting Feb. 20, 6:30 pm at Carroll Hall (SMC). Students, teachers, pizza, passport photos  FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  FREE TUXES FOR THE FORMAL FREE BID FOR THE FORMAL FREE MANICURE/HAIRCUT  Rob "The Virile Vixen" Pasin has single-handedly disproven the myth of male anatomically proportionate parts. His hands are far too big.  TO ALL ND SWIMMERS GOOD LUCK THIS WEEKEND AT THE MCC's. GO IRISH II  
available.  Info: call Prof. Black  219-291-7153.  CLUB  23  BRUNCH AT TIPPECANOE  
284-4460 (off.) or 272-3726 (home). SPRING BREAKIII $136.00 ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE  3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize.  PROCEEDS BENEFIT 1991 SENIOR FORMAL  Eric Bailey is a hot stud. NOT I Attention women of Notre Dame:  GRETCHEN 'CHURCH LADY' McGUINNESS is back and she's. more pristine than evert Call her at 4011 if you want to see her Lent cards.  
GREYHOUND GOES. RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 LOST/FOUND II •••• LOST •••• GOLD LINK BRACELET -looks like (XoXoXoX)· IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd FL LIBRARY, OR ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS.  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514.  Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition' The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23  'SENIORS'SENIORS'SENIORS'........................ You have shocked me and DIA'd mall Let's see who gets the last laugh. ET Aced your Rocks, offer for sales in the mail, but Sat the fun begins!  Would anyone who hasn't "done" JOHN O'BRIEN please step forward? He's looking for a new "diversion." HEY LISA EATON I Remember when we broke in your couch at the SYR? Love, A.M.  Rachel-how was that hunk vom Sorin? WANTED, no, NEEDED: One Italian whose grandparents "just climbed off the boat" for a long (50 years or until "death do us part"), meaningful relationship full of pasta and Italian relatives. Call Colleen at x4055  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046.  Buckwheat.  
LOST -ROYAL BLUE/GOLD  FREEDOM! Rent the best houses.  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House  ATIENTION ALL CREW TEAM  Corinne is one hot piece o' meat. And I like it RARE  Mike Callan, so, when are you going to Mobile to once again get .  
WATERMAN FOUNTAIN PEN IN VICINITY OF ARCHITECTURE  Prime locations. 233­9947.  Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize.  MEMBERS (past and present): only 14 more days until John  NOTHINGIIIIIIIIIII  
BLDG./OLD COLLEGE.  Open daily 4pm-3am.  O'Brien's 21st birthday! See you in  Kara Duncan,  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. 239-6546. LOST: MY CLOTHES. LAST SEEN IN A WASH. HALL DRYER. INCLUDES SHIRTS, RUGBY SWEATS, AND PANTS. I NEED MY CLOTHES BACK. $$$REWARD OFFERED$$$ X-1252  FOR SALE 'IBM COMPATABLE' 1990 EPSON COMPUTER, PRINTER, TABLE & STAND $1750 OR PRICED BY ITEM CALL MARK 272-5167  CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  Orlando. Photography for Formals-Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  Late at night, I gaze at your picture and I dream of you and I making sweet love on a beach in Maui. We are one together-43ach other's soul mate. Then I realize it is but a dream. 0, lamentable dayl Love, J.O.B P.S. Happy Birthday, you hot woman!  Did you know that SCOTI MUSSAR I will go to the ends of the world for a certain 5'1 0" blond? or at least to the end of Lincolnway East? or was it West? THANKS SCOTI IIIII Your good deed was GREATLY appreciated ....  


~---~----~ 
~ --------------..----~----------­
SCOREBOARD 
Tuesday, February 19,1991 
NBA STANDINGS  NHL STANDINGS  MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  WALES CONFERENCE  How  the  Jt.ssoclated  Press'  Top  25  
Atlantic  Division  Patrick  Division  teams  fared  Monday:  
w  L  Pet  GB  LtO  Streak  w  L  T  Pis  cr  GA  t. UNLV (22-0) at Long Beach State. Next:  
Boston  39  t2  .765  9-t  Won?  NY Rangers  3 t  2t  9  7t  229  t9t  vs. Pacific U., Thursday.  
Philadelphia  26  24  .520  t2  t/2  4-6  Wont  Philadelphia  2 9  27  6  64  204  t93  2. Ohio State (22-t) did not play. Next: at  
New York  22  29  .43t  t7  4-6  Wont  Pittsburgh  30  26  3  63  250  222  Illinois, Wednesday.  
Washington  22  30  .423  t7  t/2  4-6  Wont  New Jersey  2 5  25  tt  6t  2t2  202  3. Arkansas (25-2) did not play. Next: at  
New Jersey  t6  35  .3t4  23  2-8  Lost t  Washington  2 7  3t  3  57  t95  2t0  Southern Methodist, Wednesday.  
Miami  t5  35  .300  23  t/2  4-6  Won2  NY Islanders  2 t  32  8  50  t79  222  4. Indiana (22-3) did not play. Next: vs.  
Central  Division  Adams  Division  Iowa, Thursday.  
Chicago  36  t4  .720  8-2  WonG  x-Boston  36  t8  8  80  235  202  5. Syracuse (23-3) beat Florida State 88­ 
Detroit  36  t7  .679  t  t/2  6-4  Wont  Montreal  32  23  7  7t  2t2  t92  79. Next: vs. No. t8 St. John's at Madison  
Milwaukee  32  20  .6t5  5  5-5  Won2  Hartford  27  27  6  60  t75  t95  Square Garden, Wednesday.  
Atlanta  27  23  .540  9  3-7  Wont  Buffalo  22  24  t4  58  207  205  
Indiana 2t Cleveland t8 Charlotte t5 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division w San Antonio 33 Utah 34 Houston 29 Dallas t9 Minnesota t7  28 34 35 L t6 t7 22 29 33  .429 .346 .300 Pet .673 .667 .569 .396 .340  t4 t/2 t9 2t GB 5 t34 t6 t/2  6-4 6-4 2-8 LtO 4-6 7-3 8-2 6-4 4-6  Won2 Lost 2 Lost 2 Streak Lost 3 Won 2 Won 2 Won2 Wont  Quebec t2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w Chicago 36 St. Louis 35 Detroit 26 Minnesota 2 0 Toronto t7 Smythe Division Los Angeles 3 3  38 L 20 t7 30 32 37 20  t 0 T 5 7 6 tO 6 7  34 Pts 77 77 58 50 40 73  t68 cr 20t 232 2t3 t95 t75 249  265 GA t6t t89 229 2t5 245 t94  6. North Carolina (20-4) beat Citadel tt8­50. Next: vs. Clemson, Saturday. 7. Duke (22-5) did not play. Next: vs. North Carolina State, Wednesday. 8. Kansas (t9-4) did not play. Next: at Colorado, Wednesday. 9. Arizona (20-5) did not play. Next: vs. California, Thursday. t 0. Utah (24-2) did not play. Next: at Colorado State, Thursday.  
Orlando  t5  35  .300  t8  t/2  5-5  Lost 2  Calgary  32  2t  6  70  245  t86  
Denver  t4  36  .280  t9  t/2  5-5  Lost 5  Edmonton  29  28  3  6t  208  t98  
Pacific  Division  Winnipeg  22  3t  t 0  54  208  2t8  tt. Southern Mississippi (20-3) beat Texas­ 
Portland  4t  t 0  .804  7-3  Lost t  Vancouver  2t  35  5  47  t8t  237  Pan American 88-77. Next: at Cincinnati,  
LA Lakers  37  t3  .740  3  t/2  8-2  Wont  x-clinched playoff berth  Wednesday.  
Phoenix  3 2  t 7  .653  8  6-4  Lost t  Sunday's  Games  t2. Kentucky (t9-5) did not play. Next: at  
Golden State  2 8  2t  .57t  t2  6-4  Wont  Detroit 3, Chicago 3, tie  Vanderbilt, Wednesday.  
Seattle  23  26  .469  t7  4-6  Lost 2  Winnipeg 6, Quebec 0  t3. East Tennessee State (24-3) beat  
LA Clippers  t 6  3 4  .320  24  t/2  2-8  Lost t  Toronto 3, Buffalo 0  Western Carolina t02-78. Next: at Marshall,  
Sacramento  t 5  3 3  .3t3  24  t/2  4-6  Lost t  Calgary 7, St. Louis 4  Saturday.  
Sunday's  Games  Tuesday's  Games  Monday's Games  t4.  Nebraska (22-4) beat  Northern  Illinois  
Washington t 08, Cleveland t 04  Indiana at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m.  Late  Game  Not  Included  82· 73. Next: at Missouri, Wednesday.  
New York tt6, Detroit 88  Sacramento at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m.  Philadelphia 5, Chicago 3  t5. New Mexico State (t9-3) did not play.  
Indiana tt3, Sacramento tt 0  Atlanta at New York, 7:30 p.m.  N.Y. Islanders 5, N.Y. Rangers 4  Next: at Utah State, Thursday.  
Boston t26, Denver t 08  Seattle at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.  Los Angeles 5, Washington 2  
Milwaukee ttt, Orlando t 03, OT  Boston at Phoenix, 8 p.m.  Edmonton 4, New Jersey 0  
Philadelphia tt4, LA Clippers  t 04  Washington at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.  Quebec at Vancouver, (n)  t6. Oklahoma State (t8-5) did not play.  
LA Lakers t 06, Portland 96  LA Lakers at Houston, 8:30 p.m.  Tuesday's  Games  Next: at Kansas State, Tuesday.  
Monlfay's Games  Miami at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m.  Buffalo at  Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m.  t7. UCLA (t8-7) did not play. Next: vs.  
Late  Game  Not  Included  Dallas at Portland, t 0:30 p.m.  Toronto at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m.  Oregon, Thursday.  
Chicago tt 0, Cleveland 95  Wednesday's  Games  Detroit at Calgary, 9:35 p.m.  t8. St. John's (t7-6) did not play. Next: vs.  
Utah t 04, San Antonio 8t  Sacramento at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m.  Wednesday's  Games  No. 7 Syracuse at Madison Square Garden,  
Detroit 85,  Seattle 83  Atlanta at  Detroit, 7:30 p.m.  Montreal at Hartford, 7:35 p.m.  Wednesday.  
Minnesota t28, Denver tt4  Orlando at Indiana, 7:30 p.m.  Edmonton at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m.  t9. LSU (t7-7) did not play. Next: at  
Dallas at Golden State, (n)  Golden State at Minnesota, 8 p.m.  Vancouver at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m.  Mississippi, Wednesday.  
Phoenix at LA Clippers, t 0:30 p.m.  Quebec at Los Anoeles, t0:35 p.m.  20. Virginia (t9-7) did not play.  Next: vs.  
Georgia Tech, Tuesday.  
TRANSACTIONS  NO-CREIGHTON BOX SCORES  2t.  Mississippi  State (t7-6)  did  not  play.  
CREIGHTON  (90)  Next: vs.  Florida, Wednesday.  
BASEBALL  BASKETBALL  Harstad 3-5 4-5  t 0,  Plautz 2-5 2-4 6,  Gibson 0-0 4-6 4, Cozen 0-4 0-t  0, Jon  22. Pittsburgh (t8-8) did not play.  Next: at  
American League BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Ellis Burks, outfielder, on a one-year contract. CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to terms with  National Basketball Association NEW JERSEY NETS-Activated Sam Bowie, center, from the injured list. Placed Kurk Lee, guard, on the injured list. PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Released Tony Harris,  Gallagher t5-t8 2-2 32, Petty t-3 0-0 3, Cole 7-tO 3-4 2t, Williams t-2 0-0 2, Bain t-t 0-0 2, Eisner 0-0 0-0 0, Wrightsell 4-6 2-4 t 0, Geyer 0-0 0-0 0, O'Dowd 0-t 0-0 0, Vanderheydt 0-0 0-0 0, Everett 0-2 0-0 0,  Ross 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 25-63 t5-26 67. Halftime-Creighton 42, Notre Dame 29. 3­point goals-Creigtlton 5-t3 (Plautz 0-2, Petty t-3, Cole 4-7, Everett 0-t) Notre Dame 2-t2 (Ellery 0-2, Bennett 2-7, Boyer  No. 25 Georgetown, Wednesday. 23. Princeton (t8-2) did not play. Next: vs. Columbia, Friday. 24. Seton Hall (t6-7) did not play. Next: vs. Niagara, Tuesday.  

Dan Pasqua, first baseman-outfielder, on a one-year contract. CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms with John Farrell and Eric King, pitchers, on one­year contracts. KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with Bo Jackson. outfielder, and Victor Cole, pitcher, on one-year contracts. SEATILE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Rich Delucia and Brent Knackert, pitchers, on one-year contracts. TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Ruben Sierra, outfielder, on a one-year contract. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with Nate Cromwell, Alex Sanchez, and Ricky Rhodes, pitchers, and Tom Quinlan, third baseman, on one-year contracts. 
National League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Oddibe McDowell, outfielder, on a one-year contract. MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Ivan Calderon, outfielder, on a three-year contract. 
Eastern League 
WILLIAMSPORT BILLS-Named Craig Zezima assistant general manager and Charles Carlson director of stadium operations. 
guard. Activated Dave Happen, center, from the injured list. 
Football National Football League 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Named Emie Adams and Gary Tranquil! assistant offensive coaches. DETROIT LIONS-Named Raymond Berry quarterbacks coach, Dave Levy offensive coordinator and Charlie Sanders receivers coordinator. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 
LOS ANGELES KINGS-Signed Nick Beaulieu, left wing, and assigned him to Phoenix of the International Hockey League. PHILADELPHIA FlYEAS-Called up Bill Armstrong, forward. from Hershey of the American Hockey League. 
COLLEGE 
NEW MEXIC~amed Dave Kragthorpe offensive line coach. ST. LOUIS-Named Denise Swanger women's field hockey coach. SUNSHINE STATE CONFERENCE---Announced the addition of North Florida. 
• • THE RISE AND FALL OF A SMALL
11.1 FORTUNE COOKIE FACTORY 
z 
WED., FEB. 27-SAT., MARcH 2 8:10PM SUN., MARCH 3 3:10PM 
::a :~:=~:~:~:nl::~~rCit~e" 
...... discounts auailahle. Wed., Thurs. and Sun.
s:; lM3taiYstetirCckaertds at Lafortune Student Center 
..... or at the door. 
Sponsored by Art Midwest members and friends in partnership with the Na­tional Endowment for the Art.' and special assistance from 1-1 udson·s. 
Rodgers 2-3 0-0 4. Totals 36-56 t3-t9 90. 0-t, Cozen 0-2) Fouled out-None. 25. Georgetown (t5·8) did not play. Next: vs. NOTRE DAME (67) Rebounds-Creighton 36 (Plautz 9), Notre No. 22 Pittsburgh, Wednesday. 
Ellery 6-tt 4-6 t6, Joe Ross t-t 0-0 2, Dame 3t (Bennett 7). Assists-Creighton 24 Tower 2-8 0-0 4, Singleton t-4 3-4 5, (Cole 9), Notre Dame t8 (Singleton 6). Total Bennett 6-t5 3-6 t7, Boyer 0-3 t-3 t, fouls-Creighton 22, Notre Dame t7. Sweet 9-t6 0-0 tB, Adamson O·t 0-0 0, A-9,677. 
1990 BASEBALL STANDINGS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division East Division w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Pittsburgh 95 67 .586 Boston 88 74 .543 New York 9t 7t .562 4 Toronlo 86 76 .531 2 Montreal 85 77 .525 t 0 Detroit 79 83 .488 9 Chicago 77 85 .475 t8 Cleveland 77 85 .475 tt Philadelphia 77 85 .475 t8 Baltimore 76 85 .472 tt t/2 St. Louis 70 92 .432 25 Milwaukee 74 88 .457 t4 West Division New York 67 95 .4t4 2t 
w L Pet. GB West Division Cincinnati 9t 7t .562 w L Pet. GB Los Angeles 8 6 76 .53t 5 Oakland t03 59 .636 San Francisco 8 5 77 .525 6 Chicago 94 68 .580 9 Houston 75 87 .463 t6 Texas 83 79 .5t2 20 San Diego 75 87 .463 t6 California 80 82 .494 23 Atlanta 65 97 .40t 26 Seattle 77 85 .475 26 
x-clinched division title Kansas City 75 86 .466 27 t/2 Minnesota 74 88 .457 29 
,---------------------~---·--------------~------------------~
IT'S TIME FOR THE 
SECOND ANNUAL 

FOOTBALL SLAM DUNK CONTEST!! Come see your favorite football stars 

judged by George "Boo" Williams, ' at halftime of NATIONALLY RANKED WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
VS 
~ 
~ ST. LOUIS 
TH!; FIGHTING Tuesday, February 19th •IRISH 
7:30pm Joyce ACC 

SlcJFrtaiilsstt7 ~$1 Heew#J EJJS& Gi:JCarJ 
----~----IRISH _________Sf________COUNTRY__ 

---------~~--...-----~~ 
Men's track team takes MCC crown 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team utilized a host of new faces to produce the same old results as the Irish once again dominated the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships last night. 
By the meet's halfway point, Notre Dame had nearly doubled the score of second-place Loyola. 
Freshman .lim Flanagan be­gan the Irish scoring spree as he captured first place in the shot put. 
Teammatns Frank Montabon and Brian Bruch follownd in second and third place, respec­tivnly. 
The 55-meter dash fnatured another stellar frp,shman us Willie Clark sprinted to a 6.H second win. 
The youth movement contin­ued as freshman Lake Dawson won the 55-meter high hurdles in 7.62 seconds. 
In the evening's first distance event, sophomore Nick Radkewich broke from the field at the mile and cruised to a 
15:05 victory in the 5,000 meter run. 
Notre Dame junior Shawn Schneider qualified for the March IC4A Championships in the mile run with a third-place time of 4:13. 
Todd Herman became the third Irish high jumper to qualify for the IC4A meet, leap­ing to a personal best height of 6 feet 9 and one-quarter inches. 
Other outstanding Notre Dame performances were reg­istered by the first-place 4 x 800 relay squad, and junior Neil Mulrooney, who was run­ner-up in the 800-meter run. 
Kristen­
Happy B-day! 
yo\t're so old! Free in just 6 days. Smile Love ya ... 
,--------'l 
111t'\ CI>S\ "liW\5~ 1'.~ CAl~\!<, IF '\O.J'O £1JPY lt> SC\lOOL, 8Vl !~'\ 11\£ ~ Of CN\T CW>.\1< to\'1 Sf~tr• t'ii \Nit> ~ ""-IU>LVO<..... SPI~If ~ f1l£t! W/IU.S t--.1"-----..../ 
CANT eot;fll<£ IT.' LAWS CA~t1 R.£Sl11AII'I IT! W\\101.1!'1 W>.S NO ~~R 041.'.~ IT! 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
liTHE ND/SMC SAILING CLUB will have its first 1991 meeting at 6:30 p.m. today in Rm. 204 O'Shag. New membsrs are welcome. 
•ATTENTION 
ALL FRESHMEN: The Student Managers Organization will be having an informational meeting for all who are interested in assisting the men and women athletes of Notre Dame. The meeting will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in the Loftus Football auditorium. Any question, please call the Managers Office at 239-6482. 

•THE 
NOTRE DAME RUGBY FOOTBALL CLUB will have a meeting today at 5 p.m. in the Hag?ar Hal! Auditoriu~ (Rm. 117) for any new members interested m playmg the sp~mg season. Hibernating interhall football players or anybody lookmg to have a good time are encouraged to attend. No experience or pads 


necessary. 
•ATTENTION 
CREW MEMBERS: mandatory meeting Wednesday, Feb. 20 at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. $50 deposit for Spring Break and $40 dues MUST BE IN! Ergathon will be re­organized. 

•BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held Sunday, Feb. 24 from 12-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shag. A $5 entry fee is required. 

•WOMEN'S 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL is looking for commissioners for this year's tournament. anyone interested can contact Diane at x1093. 

•ASSISTANT 
COMMISSIONERS for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament are: Gerald Leo, Jeff Oakey, Mike MacKinnon, Mike Flecker and Shelly Guilbaut. 


~Cheer Cheer For tJ> Old Notre Dame 
Informational Meeting 
Cheerleading & Leprechaun Tryouts ~ Feb. 19, 1991 7:00 pm ~ .1ft' Football Auditorium JACC~ 
Bo becomes million-man in two jobs 
NEW YORK (API -Bo Jackson, the two-sport player, became a two-sport multimil­lionaire on Monday. 
Jackson, who lost in salary arbitration last winter, agreed with the Kansas City Royals on a one-year contract worth $2,375,000. He had been scheduled for a hearing on Tuesday. 
"He's improved every year, and we believe he will continue to get better," Kansas City general manager Herk Robinson said. "I think he's going to have a heck of a year." 
Jackson, 28, is also a running back with the Los Angeles Raiders and just finished the fourth season of a five-year football contract worth $7.4 million. 
Jackson, limited to 111 games because of injuries, hit .272 last year for Kansas City with 28 home runs and 78 RBis. He was hurt again in the NFL playoffs, injuring his right hip in the Raiders' 20-10 second-round victory over Cincinnati on Jan. 13. 
He was named to the Pro 
Bowl team but was unable to 
play in the Feb. 3 game be­
cause of the injury. 
"The injury, in non-technical 
terms, is a soft-tissue injury," 
Robinson said. "It is not con­
sidered serious. There was no 
bone or ligament damage." 
Jackson's settlement was 64 
percent of the difference be­
tween the $2.7 million he 
sought and the $1.8 million 
Kansas City offered. When he 
lost last year, he had asked for 
$1,900,001. 
ATTENTION 
Established Bands Acoustic Trios Vocalists Anyone who can play an instrument 
Campus Bands 
WI'¥JFDis sponsoring a special recording project that can be of help to 
your band and the South Bend community. There will be an informational meeting TODAY 

Tuesday, February 19, 1991 Montgomery Theatre--LaFortune Student Center at 7:00pm 
It is vital that a representative of your band be present at this meeting to b 
considered for this project. For more information call: Kevin Flaherty 283-1160 or 
-
Chris Walter 283-1832 

************************************************* 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
Women's tennis upsets Gamecocks, loses two 
wrapped up after the singles their second-singles player also Notre Dame, overpowering the the level of competition that the
By RICH SZABO 
contests, as Tholen won a third­went and won a match. They Irish 6-1 in a match in which Irish .faced. 
Sports Writer 
set tiebreaker 10-8 for the will definitely be a top-20 team both first and third doubles ''I'm not really concerned 
decisive fifth point. when the next rankings come were cancelled. Once again, with the rankings right now. We
The Notre Dame women's 
In doubles, Harton/Pacella out." Kim Pacella provided the only want to be up there at the end
tennis team traveled to 
and Ann Bradshaw/Tholen Before Notre Dame's match point for the Irish, chalking up of the year. If we're in the topBloomington and pulled off an posted close three-set wins in against Indiana Sunday, the a 6-4, 6-1 victory over Brenda 20 then, there is a good chanceupset this past weekend before first and second doubles, while Hoosiers had beaten the Irish in Hacker as Indiana swept the we will go to the tournament.
falling twice against its toughest Eniko Bende/Doran cruised to a every previous meeting, so remaining singles contests in These were tough matches
competition of the spring 
6-1, 6-3 victory at the third Notre Dame was looking for straight sets. In the lone dou-against strong opponents. All season to date. 
spot. revenge. The encounter also bles match played, four teams from the weekend
After knocking off 17th­
''I'm really surprised at our presented an opportunity for Bradshaw!fholen dropped a 6-have a shot at getting into theranked South Carolina Friday, upset of South Carolina," said the Irish, ranked second in the 4, 2-6, 6-3 decision to Gretchen NCAA's at the end of the year.
the Irish, now 6-2, dropped 
Bradshaw. "Everyone came to­region, to knock the Hoosiers Doniger/Jody Yin. We have some big matchesconsecutive matches to William gether. South Carolina has a lot from the region's top spot. Louderback did not feel that coming up and we will be& Mary Saturday and Indiana 
of foreign players who hit with Indiana was too strong for the losses would hurt, stressing ready."
Sunday. 
strong slices and don't give you 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~
what you want to hit. We came
"We were short-handed this through and didn't hesitate at
past weekend," said Irish coach all."
Jay Louderback. "Christy Against William & MaryFaustmann is still out Saturday, the Irish managed
(recovering from mononucleo­
I I
only a 6-3, 7-5 win by Kim
sis), and Katie Clark hurt her Pacella at fifth singles, dropping back the day we left, so she did all the other singles contests innot play at all. I was hoping we straight sets and falling by a 7­
could come out and win one 1 score. Bradshaw!fholen lost
match, and we played our best 6-7, 6-2, 6-3 and Bende/Doranmatch, without a doubt, against fell 7-6, 4-6, 6-3 in the twoSouth Carolina." 
doubles matches played.
The absence of two regular singles players did not seem to "Saturday was kind of a let­
hinder the Irish against the 
down. It just wasn't there," said Gamecocks. In an 8-1 rout, the Bradshaw.
team dropped only the third­"William & Mary is verysingles match, as Terri Vitale 
sound," said Louderback.
fell to Robin Deitch 2-6, 6-2, 6­"Trinity's one and two players3. Tracy Barton, Melissa Harris, transferred there and are play­Lisa Tholen, Kim Pacella and ing third and fourth singles forKristy Doran were all victorious 
them. Their number-one girl
at singles, and only Harris' and 
won two matches at the
Tholen's contests went the full National Indoors last week and
three sets. The match was 
Ih~Obsener-=­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 20, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS 
OPPORTUNITYl 
Make the transition into the busifless world selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory or for other campus directories nationwide. 
MONEY! 
Earn an average of $3,900 for the 11-week sales period with an unlimited opportunity for a profitable summer. 
EXPERIENCE! 
Gain valuable experience in sales, advertising, marketing and public relations. 
TRAINING! 
~-
Travel to Chapel Hill, NC for a five-day expense-paid sales training program. Train with 250 other college students from across the country. 
1·919·96S-0225 t B00-7-H 5556 
Interviewing on Notre Dame campus: 
I § ~ ICEBERG DEBATES I~ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ §
§ § § §
I § QUARTER FINALS: I § 
~ ~ 
I § ~ I § ~ 
~ ~ 
~ RESOLVED: ~ ~ THAT THE U. S. SHOULD ~I SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS I ~ SOCIAL WELFARE SYSTEM ~ 
I§ l:s:§:S:
:s: ..., 

~·:::.:::::::::::::::Crure:::F~:rda:P:~:·:=e~:be:~:t:~:~:2:c:~=:::::::;;~ ~ ~ 
Interested in chairing the 
~®®~o®~ 
Freshman Orientation 
Executive Committee 
-
Get applications from Stud Gov't Secretary (2nd Floor Lafortune) Due by: Friday, 22 Feb. 
I TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19th 9PM I 
I I
I I
I check posters in dorms for details. I 
~"'~~"'~"'"'~~~~"'~"'"'~"'~"'"'~~"'~"'~"'"'~~~~~~~~~~,~~,~~~~~~~"'~"'~"'"'~~~,,~ 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday ACROSS 28 Barriers 45 Pay attention 30 A companion of 46 Donkey, in
1 Scent 
Porthos Dortmund
6 Marine hazards 
6:30p.m. Workshop: "Career/Major Decision Making," 33 Goddess of 47-out
11 Red felt hat 
Room 303, University Counseling Center. For further in­discord (selection
14 Seraglio
formation call 239-7336. Sponsored by University Coun­34 Kimono sash process)
15 Check the books 49 Chin whiskers 
seling Center. 35 Michelangelo's
16 City on Long 
"David," for one 51 Kind of table 
Island Sound 
6:30 p.m. Workshop: "Midterm Madness: How to Re­36 Urban transport 53 Outer: Prefix
17 Madrid dish duce Test Anxiety," Staff of the Counseling Center. Hes­37Wrapwith 54 Author Levin 
19 NOW cause 
burgh Library lounge. Sponsored by University Counseling bandages 55 Leeds reed 
20 Black cuckoo 
Center. 39 Giant of a Giant instrument
21 Stream bed 40 Destroyer's 61 Obtain
23 Tap7 p.m. Film: "Rome, Open City," Annenberg Auditorium, depth charge 62 Vexes
26 Of atomic Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication spatial 42 Turn to the right 63 Fortification and Theatre relationships 43 Abstain from 64 Equal: Prefix 27 Roll-call 65 Curl the lip 
food 7 p.m. Film: "A Dry White Season," Carroll Hall, Saint response 44 Lukewarm 66 Wipeout Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Culture Group. 
DOWN
7:30 p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass. Log ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Chapel. 
1 Cries of surprise 2 Knock 
9:15p.m. Film: "Le Jour Seve," Annenberg Auditorium, 3 "-pro nobis" Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication 4 Households and Theatre. 5 Kind of acid or 
resin 18 Type of job 37 Dealers in 51 Lerner-Loewe6 Bowl call 
MENU action equine products song: 1958 
1 A cont. 
22 Actress Naldi 38 Poor grade 52 Greek Mars 8 Decrees 
23 Jewish month 41 Killer: Comb. 56 Light-Horse
Notre Dame 9 Peg or pin for 24 Read form HarryBaked Cajun Cod Pierre 25 Sligo vegetable 43 Kind of bed 57 Locale of Acre: Chicken Strips ":-+±:t=BF.t.:;:-! 10 Type of salt or 26 Small amount Abbr
45 Cavil Vineyard Vegetable with Cheese ester 29 Arabian garment 58 Room in 14 
48 Kingsley's "­
-:+.-:+:+=-! 11 Sedan snack 31 Observe better Across
White"Saint Mary's -=+:::-F--F--1 12 Fictional Jane 32 Colonize so Pigment for 59 Headland Oven-broiled Chicken .;.....o.;;;..&.;.;;..~..,;,.,~ 13 Fervor 35 Hammers Constable 60 Compass pt. Beef and Bean Burrito Fresh Vegetable Pasta Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE SPEWNKER JAY HOSLER 
u1-1 ol-\. ~1-\t-.1 'f.llli., 1\\'t. zw~ liAPP£NE.D !' GOT CO\l'CRE.D ~II\-\ ICE, SOl. 
TR\@ TC FORe£ 
IT. T\4£N til~ 
M\TT£N GOT C"-\.lGI-\T At-ID 
JAMM~D nl£ 'Z.l~P£R. 
l TRI£0 TC ffJU. M~ S~CW P~ <~H. B\1\ l f~(J:J\ Th Tl>.~ M~ BCOl'S C!=F FIR<)f, SO T1/0Sf. GC'lT Sl\lCI::. , to.~\> ffit."l \1\t P~r<; GO\ AU. T'toii'STtD, SC t Ft.lL IJ~ER, f>.t..lll f\Nt>.\.l'i 1'\\E. TE.K.\\£R H"-0 TO CALL 'TWO al5\Q\)I~~ 1tl GR_ /1\lf.. OJ\·' 
' ~-'1
y 
~g ~ 
;11 ~ ,, 

Andy looked up in horror. Right in front of Sally, a worm was emerging from his forehead -and he felt himself turning even redder. 
Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
-
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. 
Send to: 
Name The Observer 
Address
P.O.Box Q 
City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-· 



---~ ~-----~------------­
Sports 
page 16 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 
Creighton lambasts Notre Dame at Joyce, 90-67 
Bluejays look like deadly birds; Gallagher scores 32 
The Observer I Scott McCann Duan Cole (14), guarded by Keith Tower, dishes off a pass Monday night at the ACC. Cole finished with nine assists and 21 points. 
Daly looking to recapture gold medal for ol' U.S.A. 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team made the Bluejays of Creighton look like deadly birds of prey Monday night, al­lowing Creighton to soar to a 90-67 victory at the Joyce ACC. 
Bluejay center Chad Gallagher inflicted most of the damage on the Irish, hitting 15 of 18 attempts from the field and scoring 22 of his 32 points in the second half. Gallagher, who was hitting 25.4 ppg coming into the contest, increased his average with a superb touch around the basket. 
"I thought he had a phenom­enal game today," Bluejay coach Tony Barone said of Gallagher. "He's a very fine of­fensive player. He has had a very good year for us. You did not see a great game from him tonight. He can play that well." 
Notre Dame (10-16) was able to stay close until midway through the first half. They were behind 22-19 with 9:37 to go in the half when the Bluejays (17-7) went on an 8-0 run. Latrell Wrightsell stole the ball and drove in for a layup to cap that run, and Creighton led 30­19. 
The Irish kept the halftime deficit to 42-29, but the Bluejays exploded with a 23-6 run at the beginning of the sec­ond half to open up a 65-35 lead. Gallagher had 14 of 
Because basketball was invented in the United States, many people in this country believe that America should dominate international play. 
For years, the Americans did. If not for a controversial loss to the Soviet Union in the 1972 Olympics in Munich, the United States would have won gold medals in its first 10 Olympic appearances. 
Recently, though, the Americans have been getting beaten at their own game. John Thompson's squad was limited to a bronze medal in the 1988 Games in Seoul, and the United States has fared poorly lately in international play. Other countries have been allowed to use seasoned professional athletes in the Olympics and other international tournaments, while the U.S. has been forced to go with talented but relatively in­experienced college players. 
Now, thankfully, things are going to change. For the first time in history NBA players will be eligible for international competition in the 1992 Summer Games 
• 
Creighton's 23 points in that run. 
"We have a lot of respect for Creighton," Irish coach Digger Phelps said. "We didn't have a good first half offensively and that in the end decided the out­come. Gallagher is a great player, he has a really nice touch and he really proved him­self tonight. We never really had a chance to go at him de­fensively." 
There was not a single phase of the game in which the Irish outplayed the Bluejays. Creighton shot a blistering 64.3 percent from the field, com­pared to just 39.7 percent for Notre Dame. The Bluejays out­rebounded the Irish 36-31, out­shot them from the free-throw line 64.3 percent to 57.7 percent, and made 5 of 13 three-point goals, compared to just 2 of 12 for Notre Dame. 
As if that wasn't enough, the Irish had foul trouble to con­tend with. With just 4:07 gone in the game, center Keith Tower picked up his second foul of the evening, and he was soon replaced by freshman Jon Ross. Tower returned with 7:01 remaining in the half, but the intensity was gone. 
"Once Tower picked up his second, he played tentatively, allowing Gallagher to go right at him underneath," Phelps said. 
"I got two fouls right away," Tower said. "It got me out of the flow of this game because I had 

in Barcelona. Detroit Pistons coach Chuck Daly will head the squad, and he is determined to take the gold back from a world which learned the sport from the United States. 
"The bottom line is we've taught the world to play bas­ketball, and frankly, we've done 
too good a job," Daly told the Ken -r.ysl"ac
Associated Press. • 
Now, with the possibility of World of Sports having Michael Jordan, Magic ________ 
Johnson, Karl Malone and all of the other NBA stars in the lineup, things are looking much better for the United States. But although Daly won't have to attempt the painstaking task of seasoning 21-and· 22-year-olds to play against professionals, he will have some other problems. 
The guys he will have in the lineup are used to being to go to the bench. When you sit out an extended period of time, it's hard to get going again." 

There were a few bright spots for the Irish. Kevin Ellery scored eight of his 16 points in the first 5:31, keeping Notre Dame in the game early. Daimon Sweet came off the bench to lead his team in scor­ing with 18 points on 9-of-16 shooting from the field, and Elmer Bennett added 17 points and seven rebounds. 
But no star shined as brightly as Gallagher. 
"He's the best big man we've played against all year," Sweet said. "We knew he was going to come in here and play like this. Gallagher just took over. He controlled the game. 
Point guard Duan Cole added 21 points and 9 assists for Creighton. 
For the Irish, meanwhile, the loss was a big disappointment. Nonetheless, Phelps said that neither he nor his team had abandoned ship. 
"We have to take what you have and get the most out of it," Phelps said. "Sure, the players are tired of losing, we all are. But they didn't quit. I have a lot of respect for our players, they've given it their all this year. Even when they were down 30, they were still work­ing hard." 
The Irish will be in action again on Wednesday night, when they host De Paul at the JACC at 8 p.m. 
Alexander stepping forward 
Freshman in starting lineup; Irish face St. Louis tonight 
By RENE FERRAN against Saint Louis. Sports Writer "Miami played very well. They jumped all over us and threw us 
It's Niles Night at the Joyce for a loop, and the players feel ACC, and Brandywine High like they've let themselves grad Andrea Alexander will try down," she said. "(Tonight), to please her hometown fans. they're going to come out fired She and the rest of the 22nd-up, ready to redeem ranked Notre Dame women's themselves. We're going to basketball team return to focus on our game-rebound, Midwestern Collegiate run and play pressure Conference play tonight against defense-the things that got us Saint Louis University at 7:30 where we are." 
p.m. The Billikens (0-20, 0-12) According to Coach Muffet were victims of a tenacious McGraw, the Miami game will Irish defense in their first be beneficial for the Irish in the meeting, committing 36 long run. turnovers in a 97-48 loss three "They've learned they can't weeks ago at Kiel Auditorium. take anyone lightly. They have 
After Notre Dame's 69-65 to come out hard every game," upset loss to Miami (Ohio) McGraw said. ~The key is get­Sunday, Irish assistant coach ting out of the gate and being Kathleen Weber hopes the team the aggressor. We can't let the returns to this style of attack other team dictate the tempo 
the marquee players in the NBA; on the star-studded Olympic roster, however, they will just be faces in the crowd. But he thinks that if he can appeal to patriotism, his players will get past their ego trips and pull together as a team. 
"Everybody wants to play 48 minutes and take 48 shots," Daly said, adding that "national pride enters into it. They'll put aside a lot of things to see to it that we'll win." 
International rules will also pose a difficulty for the Americans, but let's face it: When the United States takes the court with players who are by far the best in the world, it should be no contest. Daly will most likely have Team USA hustling in a tenacious Piston-style defense, and if he can get the squad to play as a team, the rest of the world will once again be light years behind the Americans. 
And, of course, the gold medal in basketball will be returned to the country where the sport was created. 
and get all the emotion." And important in that process is Alexander. 
"She inspires the team with her hustle," McGraw said. "She has to be very aggressive de­fensively." 
It was her excellent defensive play which made her a surprise choice to replace Comalita Haysbert in the starting lineup exactly one month ago. The role was an understandable, yet unexpected, assignment for the 5-10 freshman. 
"Starting doesn't mean as much here," she said. "When they need you, they put you in, and when they need me to play defense, they put me in." 
Alexander was an all-state performer in high school, aver-
see ALEXANDER I page 11 
