---------------------~-­

VOL. XXIII NO. 122 MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991 . · ·~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

A Kurdish demonstrator waves a portrait of Saddam Hussein before smashing against a wall during a storming of Iraq's embassy in london. 
Offical policy on smoking created by new task force 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
University president Father Malloy has created a task force to formulate an official policy on smoking. 
In announcing his task force, Malloy referred to the "hsalth dangers faced by smokers and Indirectly by others who are exposed to secondary smoke." Secondary smoke is a "particularly difficult problem" for the University because all university buildings have recir­culated air, added Malloy. 
Malloy described the task force as "representing various groups throughout the univer­sity." John Duman, associate dean, College of Science, and chairman of the task force, re­ferred to the task force as a "cross-section of the Notre Dame community." The task force has representatives from the student body, secretarial staff, administration, health services, smokers, a:pd non­smokers, alike. 
The task force, which reports to the Environmental Issues Committee, a committee inves­tigating environmental issues across the university, plans to develop a policy by November 1991. The policy recommenda­tion will then be submitted to the University administration for final approval and adoption. 
The current informal smoking policy has left smoking ar­rangements to individual de­partments and buildings, and in instances of confrontations be­tween smokers and non-smok­ers, non-smokers were given preference. 
There· is a wide gamut of pos­sibilities the task force could recommend, ranging from a to­tal ban, to designated smoking areas, to complete freedom. "At this point," Duman said, "We don't know what we are g~ing "to do. We have an open mmd. 
"We'll be looking at all the buildings on campus. The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, Morris Inn and the Huddle will all be considered separately," said Duman. 
Currently the task force en­courages input from members of the Notre Dame community. "At this point we're waiting for people to know we exist and get input. If you have feelings about the issue, we want your input, preferably written. It would be helpful If you could specify how you accommodate smokers in your area of the community." 
President Malloy wrote in his announcement of the task force, "Knowing this issue Is one of personal concern to all faculty, students and employees, I urge you to contact any member of this task force to express your concern, and even more importantly your ideas, particularly as they relate to your local situation." 
Many buildings have formed adequate compromises. For example, Sorin Hall bans smoking everywhere but on one side of the front porch. In fact, Duman conceded, "In some buildings, smoking is not a problem because there aren't many smokers. However, there have been problems in the li­brary and in the dome." 

Somavia suggest UN show more concern for people 

BY LAUREN AQUINO 
Assistant News Editor 
Presently a "new world order" does not yet exist, but Instead we are in a state of change, according to Juan Somavia, Chilean Ambassador of the United Nations. 
Somavla spoke Friday night at a lecture entitled "The United Nations and a New World Order." This lecture was the second public session of the New World Order Project Con­ference which is sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Prior to the Gulf Crisis, there has been a slow change throughout the world, and the political aspect of the United States was slowly and discretely 

President Bush prays for 
lraquis and suggests an 
expand role for the UN 
HOUSTON (AP) -President 
Bush prayed Sunday for Iraqis 
suffering under government 
repression and suggested that 
an expanded United Nations 
role in humanitarian aid may 
help stabilize the situation. 
At church services, his voice 
at times shaking with emotion, 
Bush offered thanks for the 
allied victory in the Persian 
Gulf War and prayed for Iraq's 
government -although not by 
name. 
"Yes, we pray for our ene­mies that a just peace may come to their troubled land," he said in brief remarks at St. Martin's Episcopal Church where he has long been a parishioner. 
Bush marked what he had proclaimed as a national day of thanksgiving for the conclusion of the Gulf War. 
"We thank you for sparing the lives of so many of our men and women who went to the guIf," he said. "It is the time to give thanks to God not for 
winning the war, .but for 
helping us to do what was 
right." 
After the church service, 
Bush met with Mexico's Presi­
dent Carlos Salinas de Gortari 
to discuss trade issues. 
During a joint news confer­ence with Salinas, Bush said he envisioned "an additional role" for the United Nations in promoting peace in violence­torn Iraq. 
He was not specific about what he meant, but White House spokesman Roman Popadiuk said later that Bush was talking about the United Nations helping refugees inside Iraq with humanitarian aid and logistics. 
"We expect an expanded role for the United Nations In managing the refugee problem, and thus help in stabilizing the current situation," Popadiuk said. 
see BUSH/ page 4 

emerging as a powerful force, never before tried to deal with said Somavia. the problem by taking advan­
The war drastically changed tage of this fact. the ideas of world order in Also, as far as private deci­countries other than the United sion making goes, there has States, he added. Governments been a shrinking influence of had a tendency to grope for an the United States, therefore a ideology of war which is an im­growing feeling of helplessness possible notion. Thus, he sug­throughout the rest of world. gested that we should contem­plate "what other values we "We should not let ourselves share." All human beings share become engulfed in the gulf certain values, but we have war," Soma via stated. We must acknowledge the fact that prior to the war, the United Nations did reap a number of successes in the political field. 
"The United Nations will have to dispose of a permanent peace keeping force," Somavia lectured. This could be com­pleted in four ways: 
see ORDER! page 7 


New Kids The Obs&r119r/!Marguerite Schropp The New Kids on the Block perform at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Sunday. Story, 
p.13. 


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
leeping habits make life exciting 

WARNING: This person 
talks in her sleep and may very well be dangerous in the late hours of the night Proceed with caution. 
This is what should be placed above my bed, as my roommates could 


certainly attest. Lisa Eaton 
My roommates and I Managing Editor have come to thtJ....------­conclusion that talking in my sleep is my way o relieving stress. At night I get out all of the tension that has been building up during the day. And let me tell you, I have had some pretty serious tension to relieve in the past few years. 
But before I start to regale you with all of my 
nighttime adventures, it should be duly noted 
that I do not remember anything that I say or 
do during my sleep and that everything that I 
know about what I have done and said has come 
from my roommates. All exaggeration, 
modification and down right lying has come 
from them. This whole "you talk in your sleep" 
thing could be one big giant joke being played 
upon me by my family, friends and roommates. 
Freshman year was one of my best as far as 
sleep talking was concerned. My roommates 
thought I was Satan coming to mangle them in 
the middle of the night. 
Our room had a tile that squeaked whenever 
somebody stepped on it and sure as shootin' I 
would talk up a storm whenever someone 
stepped on it. 
Now when I say talk, I reallv don't mean talk. I mean scream like the devil and all of his little minions are chasing after you trying to catch your pajamas on frre. Like I said earlier, I have had a lot of tension to relieve. So my roommate was up working on a paper 
one night and she came into the room and stepped on the squeaking tile and right on cue I sat up (for better vocal support, no doubt), 
opened my eyes (for some unknown reason I frequently open my eyes while talking), looked straight at her and said (read: screamed in my devil and his minions voice) "I hate this place, I hate this place!!!" and a few other things. I then ·ust laid down and went back to my quiet slumber, while my roommate was left alone to contemplate what had just happened. 
Now, freshman year is bad enough without having a Jykell and Hyde roommate who scares the pants right off you every time you step on the wrong tile, but I must say that my midnight vocals certainly made life very interesting in my room. 
What is really amazing is that I also talk in themes. For example, the night before my Philosophy 101 fmal I talked about the problem of evil and the night before my American Peace Movement fmal I talked about the 60s. 
I suppose that if I were to truly reveal the entire truth about my bizarre sleeping habits I would tell you about the time that I fell out o the top bunk, but I think that there are some things better left untold. 
Today's Staff: Product 1on 
Michelle Wood News JocQuie Colhoun Lauren Aquino 
Systems

Mory Murphy Debro Heerensperger Fritz Volsoint 
Accent Michoel Whitman 
V1ewpo1nt

Jahnelle Horngon Mike Lorenzo 
Anno Mori e Tobor 
Graph1 cs 

Sports 
Michoel F. Muldoon 

Rich Kurz Joke Frost 
Scoreboard Photography
Dove McMahon Todd Flint Bus1 ness 
C1 rcu111t 1 on Denisse M-Umdois 
Blll O'Rourke Colleen Gonnon 
Mott Novok Collette La Force 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righlll are reserved. 
The Observer 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Earthquake relief effort speeds up 
• LIMA, Peru -An air force plane on Sunday took advantage of a break in heavy rains to fly medicine and other supplies to earthquake victims in the northern jungle. Authorities put the latest death toll at 25. The quake struck Thursday night near Moyobamba, a regional capital 400 miles north of Lima. It registered 
6.2 on the Richter scale. About 290 people were injured, said a Civil Defense spokesman on condition of anonymity. 
Inmates plucked from prison yard 
• SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Three convicted federal drug traffickers were whisked from a prison yard Sunday after leaping aboard a helicopter apparently hijacked from a construction company, authorities said. One of the men aboard the chopper fired a small machine gun. Prison guards did not return fire, and no injuries were reported. Two of the maximum-security inmates are from Puerto Rico, and the third escapee is a former airplane pilot from Texas. 
NATIONAL 

Bushes to attend Tower memorial 
• HOUSTON, Tx -President Bush and his wife Barbara will attend a Monday memorial service for former Sen. John Tower and his daughter, who died in a commuter plane crash, the White House said Sunday. 
OF INTEREST 
• A display of the inassacre which occurred in January when Soviet tanks and "Black Berets" used force to occupy a television tower in the capital city of Lithuania will be shown in the O'Hara Grace Lounge in LaFortune through Wednesday. Hundreds were injured and children, women & men were killed in the raid. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April5, 1991 
NYSEINDEX
VOLUME IN SHARES 
208.46 -.& 0.02

213.72 Million S&P COMPOSITE .fl.. 378.94 w0.56 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,926.73 ~ 18.32 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD if $0.30 to $359.80/oz. 
SILVER i} 10.7¢ to$ 3.95/oz. 


Monday, April 8, 1991 
Occasional :)""1etii)t'''''J thunderstorms 
today . Variable 
cloudiness with 40 percent chance of thunderstorms. 

1 l1llllii!i!l!liliii~~~~~~~~~~~~!~~~:!::: ~ 
TEMPERATURES:
••  City H  L  
Athens 61  48  
Atlanla 81  60  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iii.iiiiiiiii  :;  ~  Boston 86 BerlinChicago M79  59 M60  
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,.,,,,,  Dallas-Fl.Worth 79 Denver 57  60 46  
Detro~ 83  57  
Honolulu e2  69  
Houslon 82  67  
Indianapolis 78  54  
London 55  45  
Los Angeles 72  58  
Madrid 66  17  
Miam Beach so  74  
Moscow 43  37  
New Orleans 83  69  
New York e7  63  
Paris 59  46  
Philadelphia 85  52  
Portland, Ore. 53  42  
Rome 61  36  
S1. Louis 83  64  
San Francisco 63  48  
South Bend 80  59  
Tokyo 61  54  
Washlnglon, D.C 87  55  


Tower, 65, and Marian Tower, 35, were killed with 21 others when the Atlantic Southeast Airlines plane crashed Friday near Brunswick, Ga. Tower, a close friend to Bush both personally and politically, was chairman of the president's Foreign Intelligence Advi­sory Board at the time of his death. The one-time chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee was Bush's original nominee for secretary of defense, but Tower's former Senate colleagues rejected the nomina­tion after controversy over his personal life and role as a defense lobbyist. 
INDIANA 

Abortion protestors arrested at clinic 
• 
South Bend, In-one-hundred and nineteen people were arrested Friday at a demonstration outside the Women's Pavilion, located at 2010 N. Ironwood, South Bend police said. According to Maria Rhomberg of ND/SMC Right to Life, 4 Notre Dame students were among those arrested. According to Lt. Norval Williams, the anti-abortion protestors were sitting on the grounds in front of the doors of the clinic, refusing to let anyone except employees into the building. All of those arrested were taken to the National Guard ar­mory, where they were held until they could make a court appearance scheduled for Monday. According to the St. Joseph County Police, only 2 of the protestors were released on bond. 

• 
Amnesty International will kick off human rights week showing the movie "Forgotten Prisoners Amnesty Files" at 7 p.m. in the CSC Multipurpose Room. All are welcome to attend. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1908: President Roosevelt announced an injunction requiring equal railway accommodations for Negroes in the South. 

• 
In 1933: Wast Australia voted to secede from the British Commonwealth. 

• 
In 1949: The Soviet Union used its veto power to block 


U.N. membership for South Korea. 
• 
In 1962: A Cuban military tribunal convicted the Cuban exiles who took part in the Bay of Pigs invasion to 30 years in prison. 

• 
In 1973: The artist Pablo Picasso diad. 

• 
Five years ago: Actor Clint Eastwood was elected mayor of the California resort town of Carmel-by-the-Sea. 



page 3 The Observer Monday, AprilS, 1991 
Saint Mary's alumnae share intellectual quests with students 
By KIM MYLES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's alumnae shared how their own intellectual quests have developed since college at a conference which offered a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's students. 
Genesis, a three day confer­ence held from April 5-7, en­abled students to meet those Mwho have shown a commit­ment to the life of the mind in their experiences beyond Saint Mary's," according to Patrick White, associate dean of Fac­ulty, 
In a conference designed for small group discussion, 20 dis­tinguished Saint Mary's Alum­nae representing physicians, business executives, educators, journalists, home-makers, and many other roles, shared 
MWe must be open to experi­ence, we have to process It, connect it, integrate it, and ex­pand It Into all areas of our lives," according to Friday's keynote speaker Mecca Cranley, dean of the School of Nursing at the State University of New York at Buffalo. 
Offering her insights on how she integrates the professional, spiritual, and nurturing roles in her intellectual life, Mecca emphasized the pursuit of truth as key to reaching higher levels of intellect. 
College, Mecca stated, was the place to Mpush back the frontiers of ignorance and be­gin the process of truth seek­ing." 
For alumna Kathleen Sweeney, Genesis reminded her of the days when students dined each evening with their professors and visiting guest lecturers. This environment, Sweeney said, promoted the sharpening of students' communication skills and an opportunity for expanded, educational discussions in a relaxed setting. 
"Saint Mary's Genesis pro­gram offered an open retreat 
TRANSITION FROM BACKPACK TO BRIEFCASE 
Sponsored by the Senior Class and the University Counseling Center 
Tuesday April 9, 1991 7-8 p.m. LaFortune/Notre Dame Room 

BUDGETING 
Speaker: Michael Boehm, '62 Financial Consultant 
Mr. Boehm will address 
personal budgeting 
concerns, i.e., 
managing your income 
and expenses. 

experience, an opportunity to really learn about each other and how the Saint Mary's ex­perience has a unique role for every Individual," commented student participant Kirsten Suie. 
"The Alumnae, as role models of success, made me think more deeply about the direction of my future. Their successes challenged me to re­evalute my own direction in life," participant Renee Young added. 
The Genesis program also in­cluded a discussion of the film MJulia," which is based on the theme of experiencing and re­experiencing taken from the autobiography of Lillian Hel­man. 
Also, a reception joining fac­ulty, alumnae, and students, in a closing discussion of conference insights was held on Sunday. 
Supported by the Fund for the Improvement of Post-Sec­ondary Education (FIPSE), the Genesis Conference continued a two year project titled "The Saint Mary's Woman: Toward Intellectual Leadership" which 
CLUB COLUMN 
APRIL 8, 1991 
1) AHention all clubs: Registration pockets ore post due. Penalties ore currently being assessed against late dubs. All pockets that have not been fully completed and turned in to the Club Room must be immediately. Any dub that does not have an appointment to review their pocket should make one as soon as possible. 
2) Students for Environmental Action will meet Sunday, April 14 at 7pm in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Amy Jenista, 283·1343, for more information. 
3) Notre Dame Toastmasters, the speaking communications dub, will hold its last two meetings on Wednesday, April 17 and 24, in 222 Hayes·Healy at 7:30. Call John, 283·2447 for more information. 
4) Today is the last day for clubs to access their 1990-91 Student Activity Fee allocations. Any problems or questions should be addressed to the Student Body Treasurer's office, 2nd Aoor, LaFortune. 
5) Women United for Justice and Peace will be having a meeting about domestic violence on Tuesday, April9 at 7:00pm at the CSC. 
Student Union Board 
Presents A Lecture: 
The Sexual Revolution 
and Space Behavior Public vs. Private
.. 

by Dr. Judith Reisman 
Director of the Institute for Media Education 
Tuesday, April 9, 1991 Theodore's 7:30pm 

Gates on leave 
los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates is mobbed by the media in los Angeles Thursday after he was forced into a 60-day paid leave 
Security warns students 
By JOSEPH ADAMS News Writer 
Students should keep a close watch on their books due to a recent rash of book thefts, ac­cording to Rex Rakow, director of Security. 
MWe always have a lot of thefts this time of year," said Rakow. Rakow said that In the past two weeks there have been 12-15 reported cases of textbook theft, particularly In Flanner Hall and the Hesburgh library. 
Rakow said that because "books are so valuable these days," they are stolen in order to be sold, adding that Security works with the local bookstores to apprehend thieves. 
He suggested that students write their names In their books as a precaution and said, "If you're going to be gone for more than a couple minutes, take them with you." 

Guatemala London 
caracas 
Tokyo 
Sydney Roundtrip from Chica90. Restric­
tions apply. Taxes not Included. 
Cauncl Tratld 
1153 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, ll 60610 
311-951-0515 


page 4 The Observer Monday, AprilS, 1991 
Kennedy questioned by police in rape case 
McLEAN, Va. (AP) -U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy was questioned by Palm Beach po­lice Sunday regarding the al­leged rape at the family com­pound in the Flori,da resort during the Easter holiday, the senator's spokesman said. 
Kennedy and his son, Patrick, are not suspects in the case, spokesman Paul Donovan said. 
Kennedy's nephew, William Kennedy Smith, has agreed to a police request to turn over hair and blood samples, his attorney Mark Schnapp told New York Newsday. 
Schnapp said Smith declined to be questioned by authorities but provided the samples to Palm Beach police in Washington on Sunday, The New York Times reported Monday. 
Patrick Kennedy was inter­viewed by Palm Beach police Saturday, the Times said. 
The three men were at the Kennedy mansion early on the morning of March 30 when a guest, a 29-year-old woman, alleged she was raped. 
Police have identified Smith, 30, a medical student at Ge­orgetown University in Washington, as a suspect. Smith has denied he "was involved in any offense." 
A court can order a suspect to turn over samples, but Schnapp said Smith "will voluntarily 


Siheang Lim and her daughter stand between photos of Lim's sons at a funeral service in Stockton, Ca. Monday. The boys drowned last week in the Calaveras River. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
Popadiuk said the White House had no immediate re­action to a suggestion Sunday by Turkish President Turgut Ozal to create a U.N.-controlled haven in northern Iraq for Kurds fleeing Saddam's vengeance. Asked about Ozal's proposals, Popadiuk said administration officials would "have to examine them very carefully." 
Bush said the fact that Iraq's internal turmoil has sent thousands of refugees to neighboring countries takes the situation beyond the normal 
U.N. constraints against getting involved in a nation's internal affairs. 
"That comes under the heading of U.N. business," he said referring to "a refugee problem of this enormous consequence." _ 
Bush also said he hoped the 
U.N. passage of a cease-fire resolution containing strict demands on Iraq "will have a calming effect inside of Iraq itself." 
Meanwhile, The Washington Post reported Sunday evening that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney "raised the possibility of having U.N. peace-keeping forces" establish "buffer zones in northern and southern Iraq" to protect fleeing refugees. 
comply." A message left Sunday with Schnapp's law firm was not immediately returned, and no one answered the phone at his Key Biscayne home. 
Kennedy, 59, was questioned by investigators for about 30 minutes Sunday at his home in suburban Washington, Donovan said. 
"The official from the Palm Beach Police Department indi­cated that neither Sen. Kennedy nor his son Patrick is a suspect in the investigation," Donovan said. 
Donovan said police did not seek any bodily samples from the senator. 
Patrick Kennedy, 24, a 
AP Photo 

IRISH HEARTLIGHTS {j.~ 
3 & 6 MILE fUN RUNS 
THURSDAY APRIL 11 5•30PM 
' " ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS 
member of the Rhode Island legislature, was not present at Sunday's interview. He met with Palm Beach police in Washington on Saturday, Donovan said. 
The woman who said she was raped was taken to a Palm Beach hospital about 10 hours after the incident. Semen, hair and clothing samples taken from her are now with police, Newsday reported Sunday. 
The police report remains sealed. 
The woman told police she met Smith and the Kennedys at the Au Bar club in Palm Beach late on Good Friday. 

She said she gave Smith a ride to the Kennedy mansion around 3:30 a.m. the following morning, and that Kennedy and his son left the popular nightspot ahead of them, the Sun-Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale reported Saturday. 
It said the woman told police that she and Smith walked along the beach, and when Smith decided to take off his clothes and go for a swim, she headed back to the house. 
Along the way, she said she felt someone grab her ankle and said she tripped and was sexually assaulted, the news­paper said, quoting an unidentifiP.rl source. 
T~6~~~~~r:os;~~~ ~ 
FOOD & REFRESHMENTS 
SPONSORED BY 
NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES 



BLACK HISTORY THROUGH MEMORABILIA 
TODAY! 
FIRESIDE CHAT: NOON-l:OOP.M. (lunch provided} DISPLAY: l:OOP.M. -4:30P.M. PRESENTATION: 7:00P.M. 
Display Items From the Collection of Vanessa Durgans All events will be held in Theodore's and are free and open to the public. 


Monday, AprilS, 1991 The Observer page 5 
•

Venturi named winner of the Pritzker pr1ze 
No gain.No pain. 

PIIILADELPHIA (AP) Among Venturi's more than dictum, "Less is more," Venturi "utopian" vision, but said de­
American ExpressAnnouncesA GreatNew Travel Program 
Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
just look at the map and pick the place youtllike with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit 1f it's on vou rside oft he Mississippi River, vou Card now while you're still in school than it may can use a ceruhcate to lly lor only IlLY roundtnp. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
Y<m have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
Membership Has Its Privileges• 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
lfynu·r.-alr,•ad)' a Cardmemher. there's 110 lll!ed to <·all lnformatioll ahwa your n•rtijicate.> u•i/1 he arril"i11g soo11 CONTINENTAL 
' ••mplr-lr rrtr'l•· 1111.: ·rr,1rll,,n, r , ..... ·If·· '• 1 :r• · •.:~. ··•l' 1 'r r••fh "''' i •m•rwmJJ ~rrhn('• rhmr-i\ rT"~r)llfl~thh· inr ful611nwm nf thi.. nft',.r \mrrron F.xorr'>\ J(surnr~ nn li:.hili!Y for Conrrnenul Airllnt.\' ptrformanct Cl1991 American Express Tr:avtl Rrlarrd Sforvlcrs Company, IrK
J 

Hobert Venturi was named winner of the prestigious 
Pritzker Architecture Prize by a jury that credited him with "saving modern architecture f 
rom itself.' 
The $100,000 prize, funded by the Hyatt Foundation, is awarded each year to an ar­chitect judged to have con­tributed the most to the field through theory and design. The prize will be officially an­nounced Monday. 
"Venturi has been described as one of the most original talents in contemporary archi­tecture," the seven-member jury of architects and critics wrote. "lie has also been credited with saving modern architecture from itself.' 
400 designs are the Gordon Wu Hall at Princeton University, the Science Museum of Virginia and the Franklin Court museum in Philadelphia. 
Current projects include the Seattle Art Museum, the Philadelphia Orchestra Hall and the Sailsbury Wing of England's National Gallery of Art in London. 
"It's nice to be appreciated," said the 65-year-old partner in the Philadelphia firm, Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates. 
Venturi first attracted at­tention in 1966 with the publi­cation of "Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture." 
In response to Miles van der Robe's famous minimalist asserted that "Less is a bore." 

"The extent of the influence which this treatise has had on everyone practicing or teaching architecture is impossible to measure, but readily apparent," the jury said. 
In the book "Ornamentalism," Robert Jensen and Patricia Conway credited Venturi with showing that modern architecture had become too simplistic and had lost touch with life. 
Venturi objected to ripping down the old to build something simple because he preferred a mixture of styles, wrote Yale University's Vincent Scully. 
In an interview, Venturi praised minimalism for its 
signers must embrace many different styles. 
"Architecture must be toler­ant of different tastes and cul­tures," he said. "There's notjust an elite culture. There (are) elite and folk cultures." 
Venturi will receive the Pritzker Prize May 16 at Palacio de Iturbide in Mexico City, Mexico, from Jay A. Pritzker, president of the Chicago-based Hyatt Foundation. 
The Pritzker family, whose interest in architecture stems from its international hotel chain, has said it established the award in 1979 because ar­chitecture is not among the fields honored by the Nobel Prizes. 
Keeping your weight at a moderate level may scale down your risk of heart at­tack. So maintain a healthy diet and lighten up on your heart. 


American Heart Association 

Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $1.29 or $1.89 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express® Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on -1H conttguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no hlackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa· tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 

----------------~-­
------, 
The Observer Monday, AprilS, 1991 

ATTENTION OFF CAMPUS SENIORS!! 
BOOKLETS FOR SENIOR MONTH EVENTS 
~LBEAVARABLEATTBE 
LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK ALL TMS WEEK!! 
TICKET SALES FOR EVENTS 
THAT REQUIRE TICKETS ~L BE ON APRIL 14-16 8 APRIL 22-Z4 FROM 2 • S PM IN THE SOBIN ROOM IN LAFORTUNE!! 
DON'T FORGET YOUR BOOKLETS, TREY ARE YOUR GUIDE! 

Author says Nancy Reagan had affair with Frank Sinatra 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Nancy Reagan is portrayed in a new biography as a vain, manipulative woman who was promiscuous while she was a Hollywood starlet and carried on a long love affair with Frank Sinatra. 
The book, "Nancy Reagan: the Unauthorized Biography," due in book stores Monday, also maintains that Mrs. Rea­gan pulled the strings in the White House while husband Ronald Reagan performed as her virtual puppet. 
"The best thing I could say about Mrs. Reagan is she was a good president," the book's author, Kitty Kelley, said in an interview Sunday. 

Kelley, who has written similar exposes on Sinatra, Elizabeth Taylor, and Jacque­line Kennedy Onassis, said Mrs. Reagan was her most difficult subject because of the power she wielded over people Kelley wanted to interview. 
''I'm kind of scared of her," Kelley said. "I still think she's very powerful." 
Reagan was asked about the book Sunday as he and Mrs. Reagan prepared to enter church services in suburban Bel-Air. 
"I don't think a church would be the proper place to use the word I would have to use in discussing that," he told reporters. 
Bill Garber, spokesman for the Reagans, said Mrs. Reagan "has said nothing to me other than to say she will have nothing to say about the book." 
Kelley says her book was based on 1,000 interviews with 

MARIGOLD 
~~~~~KG~~

J ~~N---'"E'P'VV1~ 
J}L &a, '\L\1. jJ 
,-o E';ARTH DAY 
Fe-s-rtVAl­
A~lL14Tff AI ~T.MAJC:v1s 
• FE~E.FbPS ,. ~IN FoREST 
C::.f<UNC:::.tt­
• fSF<'DWNlE5\I<s 
SEE YouiHERE..! 
-==-­


Grape & Cleveland Rd. (219) 272-1922 

estranged family members, disaffected former staffers and Reagan friends and loyalists, as well as numerous journalists who wrote about them over the years. 
It is not the first unflattering picture of the Reagans. Daughter Patti Davis was not flattering in her autobio­graphical novel "Home Front." Former White House chief of staff Donald Regan portrayed Mrs. Reagan as dominating her husband in his memoir "For The Record." 
Kelley's book skewers Mrs. Reagan as an ambitious woman who mentally and physically abused her children, manipulated her husband, and lied about her age and her own impoverished childhood. Mrs. Reagan was born in 1921, not 1923 as she claims, Kelley says. 
Kelley presents a portrait of Mrs. Reagan as a "Marie An­toinette windup doll," so greedy for wealth that she ac­cepted $1 million worth of free fashions and jewelry and wheedled her husband's friends into paying for all of the couple's needs -including a mansion to live in while Reagan was governor of Cali­fornia. 
Mrs. Reagan never spent money on gifts, the book says, preferring to "recycle" gifts given to her and the president. Once, she sent a teddy bear to a grandson as a birthday gift, not realizing the child had left the toy at the White House during a previous visit. 
The book relates an affair between Mrs. Reagan and Si­natra that allegedly began in Sacramento after the singer appeared at a Reagan cam­paign function. 
Kelley wrote that after Rea­gan was elected president, Si­natra often entered the White House by a back door for pri­vate lunches with Mrs. Reagan. 
"When the first lady was with Frank Sinatra, she was not to he disturbed. For anything. And that included a call from the president himself," Kelley wrote. 
The book also makes these purported revelations: 
• 
The Reagans, who por­trayed themselves as anti-drug crusaders, once smoked marijuana at a party thrown by department store heir Alfred Bloomingdale while Reagan was governor. Sheldon Davis, Bloomingdale's former executive assistant, recalls Bloomingdale saying the Rea­gans giggled and said "they couldn't see what the big deal was." 

• 
While pursuing an acting career before marriage, Mrs. Reagan had affairs with several men, including actor Robert Walker and a powerful MGM producer who got her an MGM contract in return for sexual favors. 

• 
In his Hollywood years; Reagan was a notorious womanizer, the book says, sleeping with so many women he once woke up in the bed of a woman whose name he couldn't remember. Actress Jacqueline Park says her affair with Reagan ended when she became pregnant and he denied the baby was his. 



STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts
I Reg· $8 family haircutters
t-------------------1I 
I $50FF ANY PERM : 
I MasterCuts
I familyhaircuttersl 
~----~-------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
------~-----------------------­
Monday, AprilS, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Georgia threatens to join striking coal miners 
MOSCOW (AP)-The presi­dent of Georgia threatened Sunday to call a general strike In his southern republic unless President Mikhail Gorbachev withdraws all troops from the disputed region of South Osse­tla. 
The republic's leader warned that Georgians would adopt demands of the country's strik­Ing coal miners, including Gor­bachev's resignation. 
A widespread strike in the fertile agricultural republic could wreak havoc on the So­viet economy, which Is already strained by the walkout of an estimated 300,000 miners. 
In addition to calling for Gorbachev's resignation, the miners want the dissolution of the national Congress of Peo­pie's Deputies and greater au­tonomy for the 15 Soviet re­publics. 
The Georgian leader, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, wrote in a tele­gram to Gorbachev: "Georgian laborers, employers, railroad workers and sailors will join all the Soviet workers on strike and (push for) their demands" unless the central government withdraws its troops. 
A copy of the telegram was provided to The Associated Press by a Georgian govern­ment spokesman. 
The number of Soviet soldiers and Interior Ministry troops in Georgia is not known, but is believed to number in the thou­sands. Gamsakhurdia did not set a deadline for their with­drawal. 
Beef is 21! 

That's right, "Psycho" John Kroepfl is now 21 and ready for love. You know you want to kiss him, so why don't you just do it. 
Coal miners have remained on strike despite pay raises and other economic concessions of­fered by the Soviet government last week. As of Sunday, 184 of the country's 600 mines were not working, and 11 were min­ing coal but not delivering it, according to Sergei Schvets, a reporter for Positsia, a union newspaper in the Donetsk coal region of the Ukraine. 
Lack of coal already has forced some steel plants to shut down. It is also cutting into production at metallurgical and chemical plants across the country. 
Nearly 99 percent of Georgian voters cast their ballots in favor of independence from the Soviet Union in a March 31 ref­erendum. But the ethnic minor-
Trade relations talks 
ity in South Ossetla, a predomi­nantly Muslim corner of the re­public, wants to remain in the union. 
The rivalry between Geor­gians and Ossetians dates back more than 200 years. It is rooted in conflicting claims to land, as well as religious differ­ences. Most Georgians are Christian. 
Hours after the March 31 referendum, the Soviet legisla­ture authorized a state of emergency and called for de­ployment of Soviet troops to halt bloodshed in South Ossetia. More than 50 have died there In ethnic feuding. 
Gamsakhurdia has accused the Kremlin of fostering the vi­olence to serve as a pretext for thwarting Georgia's indepen­dence movement. 
In the latest fighting, Geor­gian gunmen fired automatic weapons and small rockets into the South Ossetian capital of Tskhinvali on Sunday, killing one Ossetian and wounding several others, Soviet television and the state news agency Tass reported. 
Gamsakhurdia's telegram to Gorbachev claimed that at least four Georgian villages were at­tacked Friday by Ossetians supported by Soviet troops with armored vehicles. 
Four Georgians were killed and three wounded in that day's violence, the telegram said. 
"It Is a clear aggression against the republic of Georgia. The genocide of its population continues," Gamsakhurdia wrote. 
J 

Japanese Prime Minister and President Bush talk prior to their meeting on trade relations Thursday 
University of Notre Dame 
College of Science 1990-1991 Nieuwland Lectures in Biological Sciences and The Year of Women 
Professor 
Jean H. Langenheim 
Department of Biology University of California, Santa Cruz OPENING LECTURE Monday, April 8, 7::JO pm 
The Path of Women Ecologists: Progress from the 19th Century to the Present *Tuesday, April 9, 4::JO pm 
From Amber to Chemical Ecology in the Tropics 
*Wednesday, April 10, 4::JO pm 
Amazonian Rainforests: Past, Present, Future 

~ 
Reception at the University Club on April 9 at 8:00 p.m. All lectures in Room 28:J, Galvin Life Science auditorium *Refreshments served at 4:15pm 
Order 
continued from page 1 
•Required 
representation of regional council, 

•urgent 
action of impending Issues, 

•further 
development of the Humanitarian Law, and finally 

•a 
closer look at regional se­curity. 



Another issue is; that of the United Nations. and human be­ings, said Somavia. Because of the dehumanization of the economy, the social state In the world is getting worse. "This should be the central focus of what the United Nations should do." Therefore there must be a change In focus, Somavia con­cluded, "Make the United Na­tions central In the problem of people. 

Tickets On Sale Today 
Les Miserables Trip  April 11  
Cubs Vs. Phillies Trip  April 15  
$20  

Buy your tickets at LaFortune Information Desk 
page 8 The Observer Monday, April 8, 1991 
Suicides in elderly people refute common stereotypes 

AP Photo

Children mourn collision 
fhree children huddle outside Merion, Penna., Elementary after a midair collision of a small plane and helicopter landed in their schoolyard Thursday, killing seven people including Sen. John Heinz 
JBUVPJPY ~ 11 $& I83JliFtifJBl]J))A'f JJA$0NI! 
LOVE, MOM and DAD 



is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Design Editor 
For further information, contact Jay Colucci, 283-4335 or 239-7471 
Sign-Ups l'or the AnTostal '91 Events Wed-Frl., Aprlll0-12 from 4-6 p.m. In the Student Union Board Office 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
Sign-Ups for the AnTostal '91 Events Wed-Frl., Aprlll0-12 from 4-6 p.m. In the Student Union Board Office 2nd Floor of LaFortune 

CHICAGO (AP) -Elderly suicide victims rarely take their own lives because they are desperately ill, broke or isolated, according to a new study that refutes the common stereotypes. 
Just 13 percent of a group of 54 suicide victims over age 65 had fatal diseases, 24 percent had chronic diseases and 98 percent had weekly contact with friends and relatives, the study found. 
"In the public's view, the elderly person who commits suicide lives alone, faces eco­nomic hardship or physical decline. But such cases are rare," said David C. Clark, a psychologist at Rush-Presby­terian-St. Luke's Medical Center and author of the study. 
Clark and his colleagues performed "psychological autopsies" to determine the state of mind of study group members -about one-third of those who killed themselves in 1990 in Cook County, which includes Chicago. The "autopsies" were based on in­depth interviews with families and friends. 
Suicides among the elderly are among the highest of any group. But little concern has been expressed, compared with suicide in teen-agers and the middle-aged, because fewer productive years are being lost, Clark said. 
Researchers found that sui­cide victims experienced rela­tively few stressful life events such as recent death of a spouse or financial ruin. 
Most victims suffered mental health problems, Clark said, a finding consistent with research on other age groups. When the data are complete, Clark said he expects to find that 90 percent had mental health problems. 
The study already has found that 65 percent were depressed and 19 percent were alcoholic. Few had received psychiatric treatment. 
Survivors nearly always pro­fessed surprise at the suicides, though nearly half of the de­ceased spoke of suicide in the last six months of life, Clark said. 
"Relatives and friends didn't take these statements seri­ously," he said. "Mental health professionals have done a poor job teaching the public about depression and alcoholism." 
Clark said the public and health professionals must be­come more sensitive to the signs of mental illness, especially depression. Depression is marked by sadness, weight loss, sleep disturbance, and lethargy. 
"If physicians and family members understood what was going on, there would have been an opportunity to reverse the despair and hopelessness," he said. 
One suicide victim's daughter said her father's physician recognized that he was de­pressed but failed to recom­mend treatment. 
"The bias of some doctors is that it is normal for older people to be depressed. They aren't aggressive enough about treating it," she said. 
The typical elderly suicide victim in Cook County was a white male who had been a blue-collar worker. More than half died from gunshot wounds. 
liD®~Lr ~®W0 
~£l( 11£1r~~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOU MAY QUALfY FOR ANY OF THE FOLlOwnG LOANS BASBJ ON YOUR SIGNATURE. 
- MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your  
first year as part of this special offer.  
~  QUICK CASH·  13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this  
loan, you simply write a check!  
RELOCATION· 9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to  
repay. You must also have our  
Mastercard and line-of-credit.  

Students with good credit or no credit at all quality. No cosigner needed! 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the Unlv!_~lly 
AnTostal is going to be a blast this year and you can be a part ?fit! The Events d~no~~~ with an "*" simply highlight the events that will include DORM teams m what we are calhn.g 1 h~ Quest For The Crown" interdonn competition. The winning guys and girls dorms wtll receive a VCR. ---All the following events can be signed up for by you and your friends, too! 
JUST A REMINDER: The 5th and FINAL General Meeting will be at 8 p.m. on TUESDAY night in the Library Auditorium ... ALL MUST BE PRESENT! 
Monday, April 8. 1991 The Observer 
page 9 

Emir of Kuwait promises to hold democratic elections 
KUWAIT CITY (AP) -The emir of Kuwait, in his first public address since the allies ousted Iraqi occupation forces, pledged Sunday to restore parliamentary democracy and hold elections by the end of 1992. 
Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al­Sabah. in a nationally broad­cast speech, said Kuwait re­mained in danger from a pos­sible "mad act" by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Without mentioning any coun­try by name, the emir asked Kuwait's "brothers and friends" to k11ep their forces in thtl emirate. 
The emir's announcement 
carne hours after the main 
Islamic fundamentalist group, 
the Islamic Constitutional 
Movement, demanded elections 
within six months and 
restoration of the constitution 
and parliament. Leaders in 
some Western nations, includ­
ing the United States and Bri­
tain, had also urged the ruling 
family to allow greater 
democracy. 
In the 10-minute speech Sunday, the emir also said he would study the possibility of extending political rights to worntm, who now have no vote. lie said the emirate's strict voting eligibility regulations would be eased to allow more peopl11 to cast ballots. 
lie did not mention the 1962 constitution. which he sus­pended in 1986 along with dissolving the National Assembly, but he said the na­
tional elections would be held 
"within the coming year." 
Three hours after the speech, 
delivered in Arabic, an 
Information Ministry official 
said the emir meant the elec­
tion would be sometime in 
1992. 
Abdullah ai-Nebari, a leader 
of t-he opposition Kuwaiti 
Democratic Forum, welcomed 
some of the emir's announce­
ments. However, he said the 
opposition would be upset if 
the election were not held until 
the end of 1992. 
The drive for political reform 
gained momentum after allied 
troops ousted Iraqi soldiers 
from Kuwait in late February, 
ending a nearly seven-month 
occupation. 
Following the Aug. 2 invasion 
of Kuwait, Saddam appealed to 
Arab masses to join him 
against the oil-rich rulers in 
the Persian Gulf region. The al­
Sabah family has controlled 
Kuwait since 1759. 
The emir's speech Sunday was delivered to mark the start of the final 10 days of the Muslim holy month of Ra­madan. Sheik Jaber has given a speech to the nation on the same occasion in past years. 
The government gave no ad­vance indication of what the emir would say. 
In his speech, the emir said Kuwait "was not a safe place" yet, because a "fifth column" of Iraqi agents and sympathizers exists. 

"I ask our brothers and 
friends to leave their forces to 
help us in defending against 
any mad act from the tyrant as 
long as he remains leader of 
Iraq," the emir said. 
The United States has been 
withdrawing its troops from 
southern Iraq and the Persian 
Gulf. U.S. troop strength in the 
region has dropped sharply in 
recent days to 336,000 from a 
peak of 540,000. 
The emir addressed many of 
the demands put forth by the 
Kuwaiti Democratic Forum, 
which seeks restoration of the 
suspended constitution and 
appointment of an overhauled 
Cabinet. 
The fundamentalist Islamic 
Constitutional Movement has 
demanded a new Cabinet 
"based on competence, honesty 
in performance, and 
popularity." Traditionally, many 
of the top-level Cabinet post 
were given to members of the 
al-Sabah ruling family. 
The Cabinet resigned March 19, following intense criticism by many Kuwaitis over diffi­culties restoring essential services after the Iraqi occu­pation. Neither the emir nor any other official has indicated when a new government might be named. 
The prime minister and at least some ministers are ex­pected to retain their posts. But the fundamentalists demanded the ouster of those deemed responsible for the situation that led to Iraq's invasion. 

Child injured AP Photo 
An Iraqi gunship attack on rebel Kurds in Dohuk, Iraq last week leaves ten-year-old Sharmin Ayoub in the Azadi hospital. She lost her right hand and left ey_e~in.:...:t_he~co.::..::..:..:n:.:..:.flict.:...:.:_._________j 
is pleased to announce our 1991-92 Saint Mary's staff: 
'Emify Wiffett, Saint Marys 'Editor, 284-5086 .9lmy (jreenwoot£ .9lssistant Saint Marys 'Editor, 284-4301 Jennifer J{a6rycfi, .9lssistant Saint Marys 'Editor, 284-4303 .9lnna Marie f!'a6or, Saint Marys .9tccent 'Editor, 284-5490 Marguerite Scfiropp, Saint Marys Pfiotograpfiy 'Editor, 284-5418 Christine Penote, Saint Marys Sports 'Editor, 284-5088 MaureenScfinee6erger, Saint Marys 1\&ws 'Editor, 284-5214 
The new editors would like to hear from you if you know about something newsworthy that should be in The Observer. They are also looking for writers in all departments (no experience necessary) and photographers. 
The Saint Mary's Observer office is located in Room 309 Hagaar College Center. The phone number is 284-5365. The office will be open on Mondays and Wednesdays 12:15 to 3 p.m., Fridays from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:15 to 3:15p.m. DurinQ office hours we will be a~ceptingclassified advertisments, letters to the ed1tor, campus & _lecture not1ces, of interests, birthday ads and other advertisments. Deadline information and other questions should be directed to day editors Barbara Carr and Michelle Clemente. 

page 10 The Observer 

Two astronauts take a space walk to fix observatory antenna 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Two shuttle astronauts made an emergency space walk 280 miles above Earth on Sunday to free a stuck antenna on a giant scientific observatory. 
The $617 million observatory could not be released into orbit as planned until the antenna was extended. Among the components of the observatory is equipment produced by Muncie, Ind.-based Ball Corp. 
Atlantis astronauts Jerry Ross and Jay Apt, who had trained for just such a contingency, floated through a hatch into the open cargo bay. It was the first time in more than five years that an American astronaut had taken a space walk. 
Ross is a Crown Point, Ind. native and Purdue University graduate. 
The observatory's main an­tenna, a dish 6 feet in diameter mounted at the end of a 16 1/2­foot boom, refused to swing outward after ground controllers sent electronic commands that should have retracted a locking pin. 
NASA tried to free the an­tenna by shaking the shuttle up and down, rocking it, and shaking the observatory itself. A half-dozen such attempts were made. 
"No joy, said James Hartsfield at Mission Control in Houston. 
An astronaut in Houston, Bill Shepherd, told the space-walkers: "Telemetry down here 
says the latch is unlatched and it's acting like it's hung up." 



is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 1 0 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot attend the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 

He said that "the thinking is if we shake it, it may just pop out." 
The astronauts carried down­to-Earth tools on their space repair job, a few socket wrenches and a crowbar. 
"A shake from left to right may just allow it to deploy," said Hartsfield. 
Mission Control's Marsha Ivins dubbed the repair attempt "The Jay and Jerry Show." 
It was the first venture into open space by a U.S. astronaut since Ross went out on Dec.1,1985. On Monday, they were scheduled to take a space walk anyway to test equipment needed to build a space station. 
Monday, April 8, 1991 

Mandela: wife's trial won't affect politics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nelson Mandela said in an interview broadcast Sunday that his wife's trial on kidnapping and assault charges won't affect the political situation in South Africa. 
The trial of Winnie Mandela is scheduled to resume Monday in Johannesburg, South Africa. 
"This is not my first experi­ence, nor that of my wife, to undergo harassment," Mandela said on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation." The leader of the African National Congress was videotaped Saturday speaking by telephone from his home in South Africa's Soweto township. 
"We have been born and brought up under severe per­secution of all kinds, physical and psychological. and we take the matter in stride," said Mandela, who spent more than 27 years in prison on charges of sabotage and treason before being freed last year by South African President F.W. De Klerk. 
HEY CHUNK, 
Better Late than Never­You might consider letting it 
grow back. 

BELATED BIRTHDAY MATT CARR! 
CHICAGO 
JIMMY BUFFETT l.ED ZEPPELIN 
BILLY JOEL 
VAN MORRISON 

WYNTON MARSALIS AEROSMITH 
BEETHOVEN 
BEST OF JAZ2 

•umlted Time. Come Early tor Best Selection. 
-COUPON-
THis COUPON WORTH .50 TOWARD PURCHASE OF ANY 
e 

$3.98 or $4.98
50e 50
CASSETTE FROM ANY COLLEGE SUPPLIERS MUSIC DISPLAY. LIMIT ONE COUPON PER CASSETTE PURCHASE. VALID UNTIL 6-30-91. NOT VALID FOR CLASSICS SHOWCASE CASSETTES 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE. IICJN Tt£ CAMPUS.. 
• •STARTS 4/8/91* 
50 ~:~~; S~:!':O~ET~~s::EDIT 50~ 
"' PLEASE INCLUDE CUSTOMER NUMBER. "' 
REDEEMABLE IN YOUR BOOKSTORE ONLY 
"I don't think personally it's going to have any effect on the political situation in the country," Mandela said. "I don't see the relevance at all." 
Mrs. Mandela and two others face charges related to the abduction and beating of four young men in December 1988. She has pleaded innocent. Her chief bodyguard was convicted of killing one of the four, 14­year-old Stompie Seipei. 
The trial has been in an Easter recess since March 28, when the prosecution rested its case. 
Mandela reiterated in the interview his determination to suspend discussions with the De Klerk government on the country's future unless factional violence in black townships is halted by May 9. 
"We have made it clear that we are giving him until the ninth of May to respond to our demands," he said. "If he does not do so, then there is no question of negotiations." 



Business 
Monday, April 8, 1991 
page 11 
AP Phott 

Firms tamper with dust samples 
Labor Secretary Lynn Martin looks on as Deputy Director of Public Affairs Bob Zachariasiewicz holds a monitoring device used to gather dust samples in coal mines. She announced that over 500 coal mining firms were cited for tampering with dust samples. 
Analysts give riverboat casino gambling mixed reviews 

I 

DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ­The return of riverboat casinos to the Mississippi marks another step in the evolution of gambling into a legitimate industry, but the comeback poses no threat to the big casinos, analysts say. 
"People who ride riverboats are not the same as those who jump on a jet to go to Las Ve­gas," said Margo Vignola, an analyst who follows the gaming trade for the New York securities firm Salomon Brothers Inc. 
The industry, she said, views Iowa's week-old riverboat gambling excursions as a "yawn." 
Hudnut says L.S. Ayres will not provide anchor store for Circle Centre Mall plan 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The proposed Circle Centre Mall received a blow Thursday when Mayor William Hudnut said ofl1cials of L.S. Ayres & Co. said the retail chain will not provide an anchor store for the downtown project. 
The news came a day after mall developer Melvin Simon & Associates announced a group of 12 Indianapolis-area businesses had signed a letter of interest to provide $50 million in financing for the lirst phase of the project. 
"They've said they're going to pull out." Hudnut said of Ayres, a longtime landmark on the city's downtown retail scene. 
The mayor said May Depart­ment Stores Co., the St. Louis­based parent of Ayres, had not responded to a letter he wrote to the company last month. 
A spokeswoman for Ayres said the company met with Hudnut in December, but had not received any letters since. Margie Meis also said Ayres has not changed its position of no commitment toward the mall project, which is proposed to cover 3 1/2 blocks south of Monument Circle. 
"We've never made a com­mitment to the mall and we do not have one at this time. Our main concern at this point is just maintaining our downtown store, which lost $3 million last year," Meis said. 
Ayres' 60,000-square-foot ex­isting store is in the middle of the proposed mall. 
"We're prepared to go ahead with them or without them," said Mike Murphy, a spokesman for Simon. "We can 
On April 1, paddle-wheeled boats with slot machines, roulette wheels, blackjack games and dice began operat­ing out of Bettendorf, Daven­port and Dubuque. 
Analyst Willard Brown also opined that the boats would have no effect on the big casi­nos in Las Vegas and Reno, Nev., and Atlantic City, N.J. 
But Brown. who follows the gambling industry for Dean Witter Reynolds in New York, is bullish on Iowa's experiment. He predicted it will flourish elsewhere along the Mississippi River, with ports of call in St. Louis and New Orleans. 

Homeless deaths recorded 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP} ­Sherry Marsh wears a crystal pendant and a small leather pouch around her neck. The crystal is for good luck; the bag holds the ashes of a friend -one of the 113 homeless people who died in San Francisco last year. 
"Being homeless in and of it­self shouldn't be a death sen­tence," said Tom McCarthy of the Tenderloin Times, a com­munity monthly that has tracked homeless deaths for six years, recording annual death tolls of more than 100 since 1988. 
"I know people who died there on the street. Every year I've known people who are now dead and it's frustrating ... seeing City Hall just write off people because they are poor," said Josh Brandon of the Coalition on Homelessness. 
But Bob Prentice, director of homeless programs for the city Health Department, said city officials are well aware of the problem, providing close to 4,000 beds each night through various shelters and hotels. 
"You can't leave it at the fact that chronic alcoholics are go­ing to die in the streets. There's a lot more we can do," Prentice said. 
The ashes Marsh carries are of Steve DeDolce, who fits the 
build right around them." 
The mall has com.mitments from three other retailers to serve as anchors for the $1 billion shopping, office, residential and parking complex. Nordstrom, Lazarus 
and a group of stores affiliated 
with The Limited 
stores for the mall. Hudnut said the financing ar­rangement ·Wednesday should provide the impetus to begin construction 
stake is expected to reach 1-­$230 million. 
Construction of the first phase will begin this year with opening scheduled for the fall of 1993, Herbert Simon, president of the development company, said Wednesday. 
"It's going to be an enormous success," Brown said. "A year from today, I expect instead of three boats as many as a dozen." 
Analysts say that gambling no longer is viewed simply as a sleazy pastime, and they cite the proliferation of lotteries, high-stakes bingo, betting par­lors and casino-equipped ocean cruise ships. 
"Some of the closet gaming is coming out of the closet," said Bruce Turner, an analyst for Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
As gambling becomes more accepted and respectable, Turner said, it becomes a profile of the typical homeless victim: a white male in his 30s with substance abuse problems. 
But Marsh mourned DeDolce as more than a statistic. 
"Steve said when he died, don't be sad; spread his ashes over the ball field" in Golden Gate Park, she said, remembering him as an easygoing 32-year-old who took occasional jobs and liked to watch turtles in a favorite part of the park. 
Since DeDolce's overdose last fall, another friend, 38-year­old Ziggy, also has thought about death. 
"I know how I'm going to die," he said. "I am either go­ing to be stabbed or I am going to get shot." 
Violence did play a key role in deaths of homeless during 1990, although alcohol or drug abuse was the leading cause in 43 percent of the deaths. ac­cording to records compiled by the Tenderloin Times. 
Advocates are quick to point out that most of the city's homeless -estimated at about 6,000 -are not substance abusers and are trying to get a toehold on a more stable life. 
But the most visible homeless, those on the streets, often are alcoholics, which is 
more attractive alternative to politicians who want to slash state budget deficits without raising taxes. 
The industry would view New Orleans-based riverboat casi­nos as serious competition, ac­cording to Los Angeles-based analyst Martin Cosgrove, be­cause New Orleans is an established destination for tourists. 
"New Orleans always has been a threat," said Cosgrove, who follows the industry for Bateman Eicher, Hill Richards, a division of the Kemper Securities Group. 
But the first boats, he added, why activists are pushing for a city facility where street people could stay for just a night, said Tenderloin Times editor Sara Colm. 
None of the present shelters in the city will take anyone who smells of alcohol or is difficult. 
"Right now, the options if you are a street alcoholic are to go cold turkey on a mat" at a detox center, she said. 
Homeless advocates say the city has talked about such cen­ters, but have failed to open one. 
"In terms of the deaths, virtu­ally nothing has happened in this town," Colm said. 
In fact, Prentice said, the city has committed the funds to open a drop-in center, esti­mated to cost $500,000 to start up and $500,000 to run. 
"Even though we're facing major deficits it's going to happen," Prentice said. 
Ziggy and Marsh, proud of their survival skills, said they did not know if they would use a drop-in shelter. But Eddie, a 37 -year-old homeless man in­terviewed as he stretched out at United Nations Plaza, said he thought it sounded like a good idea. 
"I wish there were more drug treatment places. I have come to the realization that this is not making it," he said. 
should boost interest in the 
major casinos. 
A few hours gambling on a Mississippi River cruise is likely to whet tourists' appetites for trips to gambling resorts, he said. 
"Will these be major competi­tion to Las Vegas or Atlantic City at this point? Not yet," Cosgrove said. 
Promoters in Las Vegas and Atlantic City took the same view. 
"It will create more people interested in gaming," said Stephen Richer, former head of state tourism agencies in Nevada and New Jersey. 
Jobless rate hits high mark 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Inter­mittrmt layoffs by automakers and other manufacturers con­tributed to an Indiana jobless rate of 7.2 percent in February, the highest in four years. 
"Many manufacturers, particularly auto plants, were laying ofT workers for one, two or three weeks, and then calling them back to work," said Jack Cruse, executive director of the Indiana Departm•~nt of Employment and Training Services. 
An average of 86,498 Hoosiers each week filed claims for unemployment insurance benefits during February. That compared to a weekly average of 58,934 during the same month last 
------------~-~-------­

Viewpoint
page 12 Monday, April 8, 1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •.•••.•..•....•... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor .••...•....•.•. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .....••.........•.•.•.... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ......•.•••. Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent' newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame needs to change, offer students option of co-ed housing 
Dear Editor: become all-male once again. Nothing in Notre Dame's past 
Through its 150 year history, Yet even today, with these indicates that change is de­the most impressive ac­past lessons learned, some structive. Change occurs slowly complishment of the University people still react with horror at at the University, and hindsight. of Notre Dame is the fact that is the mention of healthy change, always shows that progress has always managed to make like the creation of optional co­could actually have been made changes without disrupting its educational housing. Those sooner than it was. Now it the traditional aura. opposed to this important form time for change. 
When it was founded in 1842, of progress often site two Notre Dame was little more reasons: that co-educational With this in mind, isn't it time than a log cabin near two lakes housing is un-Catholic, and that that Notre Dame listened to its in Northern Indiana. Its it destroys tradition. students? The most recent students were all men. survey of the student body 
Now it is home to about As a Catholic university, Notre indicates that a majority feel the Dear Editor: Bozo the Clown works at WGN10,000 students, both graduate Dame feels a responsibility to need for optional co-ed housing. 
Like many ·other students I in Chicago, Rosanne Barr worksand undergraduate, male and create healthy relationships Thousands of students feel that have spoken with, I was baffied at ABC, and Jane Pauley worksfemale. Few people who have between its male and female relations between the sexes are by the choice of Jane Pauley to at NBC.
ever been associated with the students. This was understood unhealthy, .and that co-ed hous­receive an honorary Notre I feel that giving out degrees
University would complain and made manifest with the ing woul.d help relieve this Dame degree. Among this wholesale to unqualified and
about its present status as one 1972 decision to admit women. strain. Co-ed housing would 
year's selections are some of undeserving people such as
of the foremost universities in There is nothing un-Catholic allow Notre Dame's students to today's more prominent Jane Pauley somewhat devalues the nation. But without certain about allowing all members of see one another as people first, leaders: Antonia Novello, sur­the. degrees that all of us are·changes, Notre Dame might the Notre Dame Family to live in and men and women second. 
geon general and author or co­spending many years and anever have emerged from its close proximity. In fact, Notre author of more than 75 sci­fortune to obtain. Jane Pauleysmall cabin. Dame in the only Catholic uni­If the administration would entific articles; Archbishop John was a co-host of a popular early versity in the United States take a critical look at itself, it Quinn of San Francisco; morning television program forIt was with great hesitancy which does NOT offer its stu­would realize that the present 
Margaret O'Brien Stienfels, thirteen years, a smiling face
that the University moved to a dents the option of co-ed policy regarding on-campus editor of Commonweal and a bubbly personality to filllay Board of Trustees in housing. housing is simply a fossil-like magazine and noted Catholic up my TV during breakfast, but
1967-a move which has By allowing it to happen, remnant of the days when 
theologian. not a person deserving of anproven very successful in Notre Dame would actually be women were not admitted. 
How does Jane Pauley mea­honorary Doctor of Laws. 
creating a secular loyalty fulfilling its commitment as a Why did they not abandon this 
sure up to these deserving If I were among the others
among those connected with Catholic university. Many of the isolationism back then? The figures? I took a trip to the receiving honorary degrees thisNotre Dame. Without this sexual stigmas and stereotypes logical progression of the library to find out for myself. year and found myself in theloyalty, Notre Dame would which exist under the present admittance of women is to allow She is so unnotable that, with company of Jane Pauley, I
never have been able to im­system would disappear. All both men and women at least 
the help of library staffperson, would think less of theprove its facilities and become prejudice stems from ignorance, the choice to live under the it took me twenty minutes to University than I had previously.
one of the fastest growing and without the option for co-ed same roof a,nd share their even find a book with her name This may be an attempt to giveuniversities in the country. housing, Notre Dame feeds experiences. 
mentioned. a degree to someone that we allOver a century passed before ignorance between the sexes With optional co-ed housing, The book I did find said that have heard of, but it seemswomen were officially admitted those who wish to live in single 
she is a graduate of Indiana more like a cheap publicity
in 1972. Yet 18 years later, one Tradition transcends change sex dorms are not threatened. 
University; she helped in the stunt, or a poor choice at best.
wonders why this action was at Notre Dame, as the past has They merely respect the wishes presidential campaign of John I do believe that my degree will not taken sooner. Women have shown repeatedly. Tradition of those others who prefer to V. Lindsay, a man with ques­be worth a little less knowingcontributed greatly to the Uni­was not destroyed when women live differently. 
tionable marxist ties; she later that Jane Pauley has one also.
versity, and in 1990 no intel­were admitted to the University. 
held positions at WISH-TV inligent student, male or female, Pointing to a destruction of Marc Conklin 
Indianapolis and WMAQ-TV in Matthew Helminiak 
wishes that the University tradition is nothing more than a Off-Campus 

would move backwards and way of skirting the issue. 
OOONESBURY 
tr5AU H&R&, GANG-TH/3 !iCANI?At-5, 7HeM0957lfRS, THe HAl~, 7H!3 ct05t375,7He FVt-YPS, 7He HAIRIJRI?3!3ef<S, THe 5!NATRA5, THe 5PR!3APSH!£75, 
THeHAIR.­
,_,~V/0~~ ~! 

Chicago before moving on to Grace Hall 
Apri14, 1991 

rrs AU 50 f.X.PtOS!vt; tv&ASKW MY{fX)[JFl?leNP70NK8'<. HARRIS 70 913 Ht/?8 A5-7li5TeR/3Ff5RJ5/3'. He HAS 5EU£,TWCXJ~fiRST/3X­
aRPT. tbT'5 5TART 'llr1 Off' ZONK. \ 
NBC's Today show. BIG DEAL! April3, 1991 GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"JUUU5PYW 
7He PR&SitJ/JNT5 fi<AYR!XJTS, PJH/01 He'!?!!aN !XJING 5/N{Ij 1968... '' 
I 

'You spend your whole life just pilin' it up there. You got stacks and stacks and stacks. But you don't see no hearses with luggage racks.' 
Don Henley 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
----------~ ~ ---------------~-­
Accent 
Monday, April 8, 1991 page 13 
NO Musicians recognized at Jazz Festival 
By KAREN HOLDERER Saturday afternoon's per­performances in several cate­Accent Writer formances included bands from gories. Saxophone player Jim the Universities of Purdue, McKiernan, electric keyboardist 
The 33rd annual Collegiate Northern Arizona, Eastern Harrison Keller, and vocalist .Jazz F11stival, held on April 5 Illinois, Western Michigan, and Leslie Edwards, who won for an and 6, provided a great way for Michigan State. Saturday night unprecedented fourth jazz enthusiasts and new proved to be exceptionally consecutive year, walked away listeners to relax to the sounds exciting, beginning with a with awards for their excellent of outstanding jazz musicians unique and colorful performances. from U.S. colleges. performance by the University The Eastern Illinois University 
The f11stival kicked off Friday of Illinois in their set entitled "A Jazz Ensemble and the Oberlin night with five songs from the Tribute to John Garvey." Jazz Ensemble followed Notre Notre Dame Jazz Band. Notre Their leader, John Garvey, Dame. Oberlin's set was Dame was followed by is a creative jazz performer highlighted by a musical tribute pnrformances from the Wnstern who has been at Illinois for 42 to Duke Ellington and an Michigan University Combo, the years. The band is known for its incredible vocal performance Massachusetts Institute of imaginative arrangements and by Lamont O'Neil on "Take the Technology Jazz Ensemble, the the expressiveness of its A Train." O'Neil later received Central Michigan Jazz performers. The band lived up an award for Outstanding Percussion Ensemble, and the to its reputation with seven Vocal Performance. Emporia State University Jazz songs, including crowd Saturday evening concluded Ensemble. pleasers like "Lava Man" and with an energetic set by the 
The evening concluded with a "On the Sea a Duck Will Swim." guest band-the United States judges' jam, which kept the The audience gave the U of I Air Force's Airmen of Note. An crowd's attention in Stepan band and Garvey a standing enthusiastic crowd stayed well Center until the final notes were ovation. past midnight to hear the played. Notre Dame trumpet The University of Notre Dame band play fantastic songs player Bryan Miller said that Jazz Combo followed. Notre like"Louisiana Sunday the judges' jam was "really Dame jazz musicians picked up Afternoon," "Children of the great," and the entire event was awards at the end of the Night," and "Stompin' at the "very well received." evening for outstanding Savoy." 



By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
They were hyped. They were cute. They were ready. And they were really, really loud. 
No, not the New Kids on the Block -the reference is to their pre-pubescent, hip-high, polka-dot bedecked audience. Last night the Joyce ACC was overrun with little girls, all screeching, "WE WANT THE NEW KIDS!" 
And they got what they came for. They got an earful of swoon-inducing pop music, they got handfuls of fresh New Kids paraphenalia to last until the next tour, and they got an eyeful as the New Kids systematically exposed parts of their bodies-in rhythm. 
All this, of course, made the little girls shriek. 
Maybe it was simply because they'd never been up so late before, but the audience was whipped up into a frenzy. One young lady was so disoriented she held up her "Do Me Don­nie!" banner backwards. From the first strains of "My Favorite Girl" to the climactic "Step By Step," the New Kids captivated their audience. And their audience had vocal chords that wouldn't quit. 
Unfortunately, Jordan's did. 
Jordan Knight, by far the most talented singer of the bunch, hit an admitted "eight foul notes" (I counted nine), then gave up; for the rest of the concert, he just held out the microphone for the audience to sing his parts. 
Nobody noticed. There was enough gyrating, thrusting, and hopping to make up for any lack of vocals. The fans showed unprecedented enthusiasm during the song "Cover Girl," when the New Kids announced, "It's Booty Time!" and featured their, urn, booties. 
Joseph Mcintyre effectively delivered a touching medley of ballads, most of which were originally recorded before his voice changed, including "Please Don't Go Girl." And the sight of Joey, in a racy leather jumpsuit, on his knees, pound­ing the ground, moaning "Baby baby baby ... " reduced his im­pressionable audience to, quite frankly, barking. 
The New Kids downplayed their more recognizable hits, including "Hangin' Tough," playing only snatches of it throughout the concert. They highlighted the songs off their latest album. "Step By Step," like "Stay With Me Baby," their very own interpretation of the reggae genre. It was, well, cute. 
In the middle of the song, Donnie good-naturedly donned a T-shirt that had been thrown on the stage. His heartfelt "Thank you" presumably caused the shirt's donor to col­lapse. After fainting. The shirt read, "Let Jon sing," but its in­structions were blatantly ig­nored ... perhaps for the better. 
Halfway through the concert, Danny Wood and some mem­bers of the band had their own dance-off. and then they launched into the invigorating "Games" and "Tonight." 
And then there were the cos­tume changes. Jordan sported 
-
a red jacket, with a little some­thing extra for the crowd: sus­penders. Donnie (who is, in the words of "Saturday Night Live's" Dennis Miller, a "motorcycle guy in a moped gang"), stuck pretty much to his usual ripped motif. But pure, unadulterated skin was what made the audience squeal. 
The dancing was phenomenal. the clothes were snappy, and the voeals were ­
.....
well, live. Memories of this New Kids on the Block concert will live on in the dreams of little girls for a long time. 
And all those shrill frenzied voices will ring on in my head for at least a good week. 
The Observer 

Baseball season begins with umpires on picket line 
NEW YORK (AP) -Major league umpires made no progress Sunday in contract talks with baseball and, barring a last-second settlement, the season was set to start Monday with amateur replacements. 
It would be the first time since 1979 that the regular season had begun with fill-in umpires. 
Richie Phillips, head of the Major League Umpires Association, and Robert Kheel, management's negotiator, did not meet Sunday and no further talks were scheduled. 
"The major league umpires will picket Shea Stadium, Riverfront Stadium and Arlington Stadium on opening day," Phillips said in a state­ment. "The association has been joined by leaders of the labor movement in communi­cating a request to the White 

House  that  President Bush  
honor  the  umpires'  picket  
lines."  

Bush is planning to attend the Milwaukee at Texas opener Monday night. Bush's son is the principle owner of the Rangers. 
"I know of no change in plans," White House spokesman Roman Popadiuk said Sunday night. 
Phillips will be at Shea Stadium for the Philadelphia at New York opener. He said um­pires will conduct informational picketing in Chicago, Atlanta and San Diego on Tuesday, but will not try to disrupt games or prevent fans from attending. 
On Sunday, for the second straight day, amateur umps worked exhibition games. They also had their assignments and were in place for Monday's eight openers. Many of the re­placements have worked minor­league or college games; none is currently umpiring in the mi­nors. 
The major league umpires went on strike Saturday, the sixth time they've walked out in 21 years. This time, Phillips said the umpires took action because they were faced with a management lockout. 
Kheel denied that owners had decided on a lockout, but he did not rule out the chance that they would. Major league um­pires have been without a con­tract since the start of the year, and had not received their salaries or per-diem pay since Aprill. 
Kheel and Phillips agreed that most contract issues were re­solved except for money. Phillips said the sides were $750,000 a year apart, but Kheel said the difference was at least twice that amount. 
Under the expired four-year contract, umpires were paid from $41,000 to $105,000 per season, depending on seniority. The leagues said they had of­fered to increase the minimum to $57,500 and the maximum to $155,000. 
Major league umpires struck the first 45 days of the 1979 season. The two leagues used one minor-league umpire at each game and filled out the crews with amateurs, primarily umpires for high school and college games. 
After the strike was settled, several of the minor-league umpires stayed in the major leagues, causing internal trou­ble that still exists. Kheel said baseball wanted to avoid a similar situation this year and would not use minor-league umpires. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds spaces. 
NOTICES  I '--1_w_A_N_TE_o____,JI  Female roomate(s) needed to sublet Turtle Creek apt. for summer.  PAUL SIMON tix! Great seats. Apr. 16. Best offer. 273-9349  Here's what Little Peter, stud of the Tutus, has to say about shameless self-promotion:  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  
Call Jackie x4121 or Meg x4054  Need 2 grad tix for Grandma and  "Thank God for free personals."  KNOTT JUST AN ORDINARY SYR !  
TYPING AVAILABLE  SUMMER JOBS  Grandpa before they kick. Ron,  
287-4082  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Moving to NYC/ or Summer  x3504.  To all ENGL 491A warriors: "War is  Did Buff ever find a room?  
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  Internship? Female non-smkr  the nightmare where adults feel like  What did B.U. lose by the lake?  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  roommate needed to share large  I need two tickets to Paul Simon  children"  LM. & M.W. -Why don't you go for  
hours 10-5:30 everyday  LAKE PLACID. CALL  mnhttn apt-safe. great neighbrhd,  (not bleachers).  single guys?  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  1-800-343-8373.  near Central Park, Subway; Price  Call Brigid #284-523  ANA, MOIRE. & JANE­ J.C. & B.S.-Is it love?  
corner of ND Ave. & Howard  Negoc. Contact: Linda Filar (NO  "THANKS, EASTER BUNNY ! ! !"  Yes, it's true, Laura beat John in the  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME.  '90) (212) 968-3937 on wkdys; or write: 711 Amsterdam Ave, 25M.  PERSONAL  Had a great time last weekend in Louisville, Ky! Always remember  chugging contest. Amy is still in shock from Bob's snot  
Winning Hotel, has rooms for  CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  NYC, NY 10025. Apt available mid­ and never forget.  on her shoulder.  
Graduation weekend. Located at  May.  Resumes.... Professional quality  •"My name is Jane, I go to Notre  
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles  HELP!!!NEED A ROOMATE FOR  272-5667. (Tom Williams)  Dame ..  Looks like just about everybody  
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2  CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL  Condo for summer rental  "BAWK, BAWK!"  "got some". Don't worry, there's  
nights with $110 deposit per room.  DOUG X2051  2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS  always Thursday night!  
Send letter with deposit to 3011  SUMMER? Jet there with  ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor  
Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514.  American AuPair nanny specialists.  2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo.  AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the  and teacher, longing to share our  
Carefully screened families. Full  $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished.  Midwest. $160 from the East Coast.  love with newborn. We'll give your  "I know the road. I know where it  
Word Processing  benefits, airfare, good wages.  Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School  (As reported in NY Times and Let's  baby a caring, warm, and happy  goes. Don't tell me what I already  
Quick service. color printing  Nanny support system, no fees.  yr. Call Michelle at X4970.  Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000  home. Expenses paid. Call Carol  know. I know where it goes, that's  
available. Call Betty at 7458 or  Local interview-call Joan 616-684­ and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  why I'm going so slow."  
leave message (289-1321)  1451.  TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES  TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS.  -submitted by the Dutch boy  

 FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  UNIVERSITY TEACHING  LEARN TO SKYDIVE!  Classes  
LOST/FOUND I  EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B  IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 3­4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097  EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 272­ every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00am. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training  BEWARE THE STING!!!!!  
LOST: A Minolta Camera in a black  3153.  programs. Licensed instructors.  Beaux Arts Ball !991 Is Here'  
Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to  Hawaii beachfront CONDO, sleeps  FFI call Skydive Hastings (616)  
have been lost 3/28/91 in 127 Niewland. If found please call Scott @ 273-9355. REWARD!!!!!  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? WE'RE LOOKING FOR A BABYSITTER FOR 2 1/2  4,11/28-12/5/91,$500, mins. from Hula Bowl & Honolula. Call 234­5041/233-4408.  PREGNANT? Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving  948-2665. ! ! ! PROFESSORS .. !! !  When:Sat April 13 Where:Architecture Bldg. Time: 10:00-2:00  
CHILDREN FOR APPROX. 20  doctor and his stay-at-home wife  
FLEXIBLE HOURS PER WEEK.  Students wanted to sublease apt.  would like to discuss Bal:)y's future  ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD  
Found: A gold braclet near the  SALARY OR FREE ROOM AND  for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. - witti you. Please call collect  ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU  CONGRATULATIONS on your  
Dome. A name and date are  BOARD. PLENTY OF TIME FOR A  Blaize x1654  anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael &  GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU  bookstore win, BAKED POTATOES!  
inscribed on the braclet. To claim  SECOND JOB COULD WORK  Debra.  JUST GOING AWAY THIS  
please call Ajay at  INTO A POSITION FOR FALU  Students wanted to sublease apt.  SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT THE  
5749 or 287-4869.  SPRING TERM. CALL ANNA AT  for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE.  I got it.  HOUSE?  
 
LOST: a navy blue windbreaker,  277-2468 (H) OR 288-6466 (W)  Blaize x1654  Come. And be my baby. ----------------­ RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF  Guatemalan  
with "Mountainside Community Pool Staff" on it between LaFortune & Fisher on Man 3/25. Be real cool  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?  FOR SALE  Come watch the Tutus dominateIBookstore! Monday, April 8, 4 p.m. 3t Stepan. Just look for t11e tutus.  YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED TO  Imports  
and return it to Jeff x1873. LOST: I left a Limited bag in the Main  I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment for the summer. I'm interning in the Bend, so I won't be around much.  sofa. luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583  Here's what Marshall Armintor, currently in London. says about the Tutus:  WORRY THIS SUMMER! CALL ANYTIME...283-3470...PLEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF GONE! CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER"  Saint Mary's College LeMans Hall  
Circle late on Monday night. If you found it. please call me at: 284­4112. ' REWARD!  Call John at 283-3574. Wanted: A bicycle in good condition. Call Nicole x4049.  86 VW GOLF. Excellent cond., A/C,sunroof,pu/1-out hi-fi.New Michelins,exhaust,brakes,belts,hos es.Orig owner must  "I played with the Tutus back in '89. Heck, we were just a bunch of kids back then, trying to have some fun and get women. But now all this  REFERENCES UPON REQUEST STUDENTS: Going home for the summer? Need  April 8-12 10 am-5 pm  
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  FOR RENT  I  sell.$3690.232-9952. 1990 CAVALIER Z24. lt. blue, low  hype... They sold out, man." Everyone is invited to watch 5 Guys  a place to stash your stuff? We have the place for you! JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE  Purses, hats, belts,  
I lost my cross in Gym 1 of the ACC on Wednesday March 27. /left it there after 5 p.m. It's a silver cross on a black rope band. It has GREAT  GRAD. WEEKEND BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  miles. sharp. Call 271-8920. Men's Superlightweight 19" Bianchi 12-speed. Hardly used. 3 years  Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing Basketball mercilessly crush their pathetic oponents with the stupid name with Greek letters today at Stepan at 4  272-2400 Thank you St Jude, faithful friend and follower of Jesus, for answering my petition.  shirts, vests, other accessories, and traditional  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. A REWARD IS OFFERED. If found please call Mike at 1788. Thanks.  3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $555 Month + Deposit Ten Month Lease  old. Was $350. Now $200. Call 258-0752. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  p.m. Except Slut. He can't watch cause he wouldn't play as a "tutu­for-hire." Hey. Slut, people say I'm the life of the party because I tell a  ems  Guatemalan clothing and weavings.  
LOST: KEYS! 3 keys on two  232-3616  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  joke or tu.  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?  
attached rings-one room key, one  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.  I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to  
mail key (#139) and one padlock. Lost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar.  HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr.  Office near campus.  Here's what Chuck Barkley, Sixers star forward, says about the Tutus:  share a Campus View apartment for the summer. I'm interning in the  A % of Sales goes back  
Please call X4092 if you can help.  3-7 Bedroom. Furnished, Reasonable Rates. Call at 232-1776.  87 Pontiac FIERO GT. mint loaded,low mi.,must sell $7000/b.o. 273-9349  "I always wanted to wear a tutu while playing basketball, but I just didn't have the guts. So I shaved  Bend, so I won't be around much Call John at 283-3574.  to Guatemala to buy books &school supplies  
LOST: IN OR NEAR LOFTUS, A DIAMOND RING OF GREAT  An attractive studio in lovely old  Want to avoid the endless  my head. That's kind of nutty, isn't it?"  Stay tuned for the continuing saga of the roommate situation from  for children.  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU  mansion near N.D. $300 now  computer lines at finals?  hell- 
FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL 257­8154.  renting for summer &fall 91 call 2879624  then buy my practically new. professional WP system. Easy-to­ Here's what Guy "McDago" DiDonato. star forward of the Tutus.  Co-starring-Molly Malloy, the cynical "QUEEN CHUG" NO Model  ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM  
use. fantastic results. and no  says about today's big game:  UN representative,  
I left my glasses in the Physics 222 Lab on the third floor of Nieuland on March 26. If you have any information. please  Roomate needed for summer session. Call Tim M-F at 233-8461.  waiting! $300 or b.o. Matt x2004 89 GEO Spectrum  "I want lots of chicks there­preferably freshman chicks. I don't want anyone ruffling my tutu, either. I'm easily upset. And people better  along with idealist and Observer copy editor Siobhan McCarthy .. What could possibly go wrong with such an ideal combination  Father Oliver Williams, CSC Associate Provost speaks on  
call me!! I am blind without them!!  Great Gas Mileage- not laugh at me... Are you talking  ?#&"@"!?  
Nicole x4907  Best Locations. Best Houses, Have your own yard. 233-9947.  45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty excellent buy, call Pat  tome?" Here's what Dante "Air" Diamente.  (Heh, heh)  "My Recent Visit With Nelson Mandeia"  
HELP!!! HELP!!! HELP!!! /left an orange suade jacket in the Loftus Auditorium after the Physio ·exam on 4-4.  Quaint furnished apts. near NO. for summer or fall semesters. -effeciency $225 -1 bedroom $260  288-5678 TICKETS  I  star center of the Tutus, says about basketball: "It's in my blood, along with concrete shoes, tommy guns, pizza, grease. I like the feel of a  ARE YOU PRO-LIFE? CALL MARIA AT 2613 OR MARY LEE AT 2671 TO GET YOUR NAME INCLUDED ON PRO-LIFE  Wednesday, AprlllO 7p.m.  
My 10 is in the pocket. If you found  -2 bedroom $360  basketball. I don't like the feel of  PETITION IN THUR OBSERVER.  
it. please call Dianne @ 2467.  deposit, references 616­483-9572  NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL JOHN X2325.  Big Pete's head, though. It's like a. . . a ... a Brillo Pad."  (No Charge.) •..CALL TODAY!!!!!!! •••  ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM  
----------------­ 

The Observer Scoreboard page 15 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL RESULTS 
Reaulta from Bokatora B..ketball XX: Saturday, April II, 188t 
Culllllower, Crud, Chlel, Silk of Magneala, and Doctor Dumb del. Digger's Next Year's Recruits, 21·t1 59 79 99 del. 5 Guys Under 6ft. and Over 61n., 2t· 9 
Short and Whhe del. Scud Launchers, Ioria~ Lacy Under ails del. Cuddlebug and ... , 21·8 Brian Grady ... del. Or. J'aJammn Juniors, 21-t2 The Thoroughbreds del. Rocket Leaving Digger Staying, 21·5 5 Men In Flannels del. Alabama Slammers, 21-tO Four Basketball Players and One hallan del. The Anger Hat Boys and Anton, 2t-t0 The Legend of Rico Suave del. Pam o'Oell and 4 Other Chicks Who Like to Score, 2t-4 The Connors Club del. The Busdrlvers, 2t-4 X-Forca del. Rhinelander, Ricky Wanere, Wleconsln Club .... torfeM 5 Guya Who Play Hard del. Now Look at That Ona...,2t-8 Cenaorshlp Ia Wrong In Any Form del. Nell Diamond, John Denver, Barry Manllow and Two Guys with Talent, n21 The Huatlln Playboys del. Dry Heaves and Drool, 21-12 5 Guys Who Hate BIN del. The Irish Jihad, 2t-t6 The Raccomended Dally Allowances del. 4 Scuds and Another Guy .•., 21-13 We'll Take Them Out a1 the Kn888 del. Bow Your Heads and Play, 23·21 5 Chicks With an Attitude del. Come Slam on Oava, 21·16 The Koozles del. Ricky Walters, Staypull Marshmallow Man..., 21·9 Slamma lama Ding Dong dol. 5 guys whh Only Ona Sack, 21-4 2 Joea, Chris, a Phlllplno, and a Canandlan del. Hop, Skip, and Go Nakad...Agaln, 21-3 Unjuatllled lrrevaranca daf. Bluea Brothers, 2t-10 Lac's Gat Ready to Rumble dol. 5 Guys That Can1 jump, 21·0 Team 23t del. 25 Alre, 21·15 Your Mom Can1 Wreatla ... del. Am I Am With The Invisible Man, 2t-t9 199t: The Year of the Slow Wh~e Guy del. This Was All Yocum'a Idea. lor1alt 
Silver Spoons del. Sigma Omega Sigma: In Memory of Sean, 2t-4 No Clue del. With The Qulckn818, 21·7 Ray Charles Intimately del. Dept. of Redundancy Dept., 21·12 SYR Datea lrom Hell del. 5 Guys Who Can't Shoot From Anywhere, 21 ·13 WMe Powder••• del. Tooth 'n Gash, 21-6 Dutch del. 4 Outside Shooters, 21-18 Next Year's Recruhs del. Team 260,21-16 Kuwa~. Seudl Arabia, and... del. The Laxatives, 21· 
5 5 Guys Who Lack Any BBall... del. Five Under 5'5', 24·22 Sam, Norm, CIIH.•. del. We A Clueless, 21-5 Anything But That del. Sonia's Friends, 21-18 The Gourds del. $125 Says Again You're Going, 2t-12 Bookstore Jihad del. Net Dreams, 21-1 Ronny, the Ghost, a Better ... del. Fat Shirley and the Truckstera, 21 ·15 The Intrepid Masons del. Snowballs in Hell, 21-13 The Pulsating Dave Machine ... del. Hustle-Noll, 21 • 14 DC, Amlg·os and a Mexican del. Wasted Space, lorfelt Tho Golden Sombreros del. Mllll Vanllll and 3 Other Guys Who Only Use Their Ups, 21 ·9 Score Mamas del. Hanging Out with Judas .... 21· 16 Teeeth Trashl, Tackle Bustin 20 Pounds del. Ricky Watters, Pheps, and Two Other Guys, 21·19 Air Zebra and the Backboard del. Ez99 Ch888e and the Humpty Boyz, 21·5 A Win and a Prayer del. Hank Gathers, Pete · Maravlch ... , 21·3 Nice Musky del. Flah Killere II, 21-18 Ounky, Or. J, (lpey, and Two Other~ del Bad Axea, 21-1 The Scud-B's del. lour Men and Ken, 21·8 Transfer~ del. Team 352, 21·9 Team 373 del. The Canine 5, 21-15 When You're A Hammer del. Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, 21·18 De Bartolo's H~ Men: Make Us An Offer..• del. An Engaged Woman and Four Other .•., 21·10 Gilligan, the Skipper Too ... del. St. Jude's Team, 21·8 5 Really Terrlbla B-ball Players del. The Greatful Mad Heads, 21-13 

Sunday, April 7, 1881: 
Sleeping With Bionomy del. Straight Oulla Stanford, 2t-9 The High Roller~ del. Purple Therml, 29-27 Team 295 del. 2 Monkeys, 2 Nerds,and a Player, 21-17 MXMXM... del. NBA Action, 21·t6 The Power of the Triangle del. Unparallad linger Dexterity, 21-13 The Regulator~ del. Thales' Avengers, 21-14 Phi Lou's Roommale and four other Guys del. Snowballs Chance In .... 22·20 Stray Scuds del. Fast Brake. 21-<l B-1 Bomber~ del. Smell the Glove, 21-6 Mighty Good Breaktast Flakea del. The Ross Brother~s and 3 Other, 2t·1 5 B99r Train del. Make-Shift Squad, lor1eM Club 23's Baked del. Jack and 4 Other Guys, 21-12 Trouser Gremlins del. Mr. C's Special, 21-12 Llghtln' Hdel. Sugar Ray, Digger .... 21·7 Team 57 del. ~We Have 3 Tlmeouts, lorfelt Cherry Pia del. 5 Guys lrom the Box, 2t·3 Four Preps and a Hick del. WeLke Pizza, 2t-8 A Scud, Scan Norwood, and 3 Other guys ... del. Team Sloth, 21·5 Air Ashby and Hie "C' Men del. The Board Bangers Who Never Score, 21-13 CI9VBiand Steamers del. Death to Oat Meal, 21-16 Boehelm, Phelps, and 3 Other Guys del. Tower, Bundy, and 3 Other Guys, 21-14 All· Time Lows del. All The President's Women, 21. t4 Barking Clllf Chickens del. Blatz $4.79 per, 21-10 Carpe Murken del. Mr. Hlpp, Smlckar •••, lorfeit Meatless Baked Zlll del. White, Talentless, and Redundant, 21·1 Struggled With Our Name del. Balls the Cat, fort ell Team 634 del. Top 5 Realions to Break Parlatals, 23-21 
Depression as a Llfeatyle del. Sexual Frustrations Rechanneled, 21·19 Singleton's Massatushes Falcoms del. Give Me A Box ol Those Naked Lady T888, 24·22 Kenosha Wallbange111 del. Budeyes, 21·12 Katie? Karl? Katie? Karl del. Team 599, 21·8 Stop Whinnlng ... del. Father Sorln, Ayatollah .••, 21· 
4 

We Love Digger ... Not del. We're Never Cashed, 21·3 
Bert, Thr99 Shmaels, and a Plas del. H We Were Any Woree ..., 21-14 Mosconl's Ball Bonds del. Anastasia's Bobble Pins, 21·9 Sons ot Chachl del. Those Ballhandllng Babes FromBP,2H1 Dawgs In Heat del. The Potato Heads, 21·1 5 Man Accousllcal Jam del. We Love Scoop Tyslac, 21·16 4 Studs and a Burly Pud del. Shamu Lovea Charlie, 21 • 7 The Old and Injured del. 4 Real NO Students and a Townie, 21-17 5 Shooting Foul del. All We Had Going For Us was the Name ..., 21-12 Los Huerons del. Our Room and Jon, 21-4 Garry's Kids del. Night Train, 21-14 Fumblln', Stumblln', Rumblln' del. Chuck Freeby Is the Blue Jogger, 2t·9 Paterno, Gr99n, McCartney, and 2 Other Guys del. 4 Stallions Pulling on a Wagon, lor1ett We Need Jobs del. We're Not Finished Yet, 24·22 Love Handles del. Herr Long, Herr Brown, 21·6 The Cheggera del. 4 Architects and a Man, 2t-t Hell del. Team Spam, 21-4 Nothing and I Like " del. Slow Punch Memorial, 21-19 The 5 Glorious Mysterl91 del. 5 Senior~ Just Out for the Exerdse, 21-16 Chlllln With Frozen Roman del. Digger Phelps, Saddam Hussein... , 21-11 Omar'e Camel Jockeys del. Nlcgo and the 4 Midgets, n21 Sometlm91 Unlver~lty Cansor~hlp del. The Royal Cafe, torte~ Antonio's Secrets del. The Rolling Juggernauts of Dealh, 2t-15 The Master~ del. High Pri9Bts ol Onan, 21-6 Mile's Team del. Always the Brldeamalds ... , 21-14 

AP/Martha P. Hernandez 

NHL PLAYOFF BOXES 
Adame Dlvlalon 
AI Buffalo, N.Y. Montreal 3 t ~ Buffalo 2 2 t--6 
Firat Perlod-t, Bullalo, Tantl t (Bodger, Andreychuk), 2:20. 2, Montreal, Corson t (Schneider, Savard), 4:07 (pp). 3, Buffalo, Ruunu t (Snuggerud, Hailer), &:38 (sl\}. •. Montreal, Gilchrist 3 (Savard, Keane), 9:&8. &, Montreal 

·------------------------------------------------------------------·Courtnall4(Savard}, tt:47 (pp}. 
ANEW EASTERN EUROPE 
SOVIET, POLISH & UTHUANIAN PERSPECTIVES 
MONDAY APRIL 8TH 7:00pm CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
Miss Ginte Damusis, 
Lithuanian Information Center, New York City Bureau Chief 
Dr. Lucjan T. Orlowski, 
American Council on Education Fell ow 

~TUDE •NT 
&Offill Ill 

Dr. George A. Brinkley, 
Department of Government and International Studies 

Second Perlod-6, Buffalo, Hogue 2 (Malarchuk, Hawerchuk), 4:20. 7, Buffalo, Ledyard 2 (MogHny), tt :t4. 8, Montreal, Gllchrlet 4 (Courtnal~, t7:&8. 
Third Perlod-9, Bullalo, Ramsey t (Ray, Mogllny), 2:38. Shots on goal-lolontreal7·5·t0-22. Buffalo tO. t5-8-33. Goallea-Montreal, Roy. Buffalo, Malarchuk. A­t4,6011. 
At Hartford, Conn. Boalon 1 1 4~ Hartford 0 1 2-3 
First Perlod-1, Boston, Bourque 1 (Hodge, Janney}, 1 1 :07 (pp}. 
Second Perlod-2, Hartford, Hunter 2 (Veri>Mk, Cullen), 6:19 (pp). 3, Boston, Wealey 1 (Bourque, Janney), 10:38 (pp}. 
Third Period-. Hartford, Verb99k 3 (Cullen, ShaW), 1:511. 5, Boston, Galley 1, 6:411. 6, Boston, Christian 1 (Burridge, Wiemer), 7:07. 7, Boston, B.Sweenay 1 (Nilan), 10:05. 8, Boston, Jannay 1 (Neely, Wesley}, 14:18 (pp). 9, Hartford, Yake 1 (Krygier, Ladouceur), 15:2t (ah). 
Shots on goal-Boston 7-6·10-23. Hartford 8· 10-7--25. Goaii-Boston, Moog. Hartford, Sldorklewlcz. A-15,635. 
Patrick Dlvlalon 
At landover, Md. H.Y. Rangere 2 2 2~ Waahlngton 0 0 0-0 
Firat Perlod--1, New York, King 1, 8:07. 2, New York, Gartner 1 (Nicholls, L99tch}, 19:29 (pp). 
Second Perlod-3, New York, Nicholls 2 (Kocur, Hardy), 12:17. 4, New York, Janssens 1 (Mullen, Moller), 15:47. 
Third Perlod-5, New York, Nicholls 3 (Kocur, Erlxon), 6:34. 6, New York, Turcotte 1 (Nicholls, L99tch}, t7:t5 (pp). 
Sholl on goal-New York 12·15·11-38. Washington tll-t0-1 1-37. Goalies-New York, Richter. Washington, Beaupre, LIUI. A-16,592. 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE  
AdanUc Dlvlalon  
w L  Pet.  GB  
y-Boston 54 21  .720  
x-Phlladelphla 42 33  .580  12  
x-NewYO<k 36 39  .480  18  
Washington 27 47  .365  26112  
New Jersey 23 52  .307  31  
Miami 22 53  .293  32  
Central Dlvlalon  
y-Chlcago 55 20  .733  
X·Detrolt 47 28  .627  8  
X·MilwaukM 45 30  .800  10  
X·AIIanta 39 35  .527  15 112  
X·indlana 37 38  .493  18  
Cleveland 28 o47  .373  27  
Charlone 23 53  .303  32112  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Mld-•t Dlvlalon  
w L  Pet.  G8  
x-San Antonio 50 2o4  .676  
x-Houaton 4t 25  .882  1  
X·Utah 48 26  .6411  2  
Orlando 27 48  .370  22112  
OaUas 26 48  .351  24  
Mlnnaeota 23 51  .3t1  27  
Denver til &8  .253  31 112  
Pllclftc Dlvlelon  
x-Portland 57 18  .780  
X·LA LAikM 54 21  .720  3  
X·P"-'Ix 50 24  .678  6112  
x-Golden Stale 3G 36  .520  18  
Seattle 38 38  .488  20 112  
LA Cllppere 30 45  .400  27  
Sacramento 21 53  .284  35112  
x-cllndlad pl•yoH berth  

Y·DIInched dlvlalon dlle 
Saturd•y'• O•ma• Orlando t 02, Boston 98 Atlanta 137, Indiana 110 Houaton 97, Utalt.j8 New York 101, Dllflju 88 Milwaukee 133, New Jersey 114 Sacramento 119, Golden Stat& I08 
Sund•y'• G•maa 
Late Game Not Included Cleveland 102, Chertone 100 San Antonio 92, Mlnn9Bola 87 PhNadelphla 114, Chicago 111, OT Seanle 124, Denver 117 Portland 110, Dallas 92 LA Cllppet1 1 1 9, Sacramento 1011 Phoenix at LA Lakere, (n) 


page 16 The Observer Monday, April8, 1991 
Evans wins her 28th national title as Nationals end 
FEDERAL WAY, Wash. (AP) ­Angel Myers Martino, the only American swimmer to ever be suspended for a positive steroids test, splashed to victory Sunday night in the women's 50-meter freestyle as the U.S. Spring Nationals swimming meet drew to a close. 
Tireless freestyler Janet Evans, 19, a three-time Olympic gold medalist in Seoul in 1988, won her fourth race of the meet, the 1,500. 
It was Evans' 28th national championship. Tracy Caulkins, who swam from 1977 through 1984, holds U.S. swimming's all-time record with 47 national titles. 
"How many do I have? 28. I don't think I'll be around that long (as Caulkins)," Evans said. 
In her first major meet since returning from a 16-month suspension from U.S. swim­ming, the 23-year-old Martino was clocked in 25.88 seconds in the one-lap dash. 
She rmished in front of Jenny Thompson, an 18-year-old high school senior from Dover, N.H., 
who was timed in 26.03. 

Martino tested positive for steroids at the 1988 Olympic trials and never got a chance to go Seoul. She denied she took steroids. 
Martino led halfway through the 100 freestyle earlier in the meet but faded to nfth. 
"I felt good," Martino said. "I'm not back in top form yet but this is a positive first step. I really didn't know what to ex­pect this week. I was a little bit nervous at the start of the week." 
Evans, holder of three world records, including the 1,500 at 15:52.10, won Sunday night in 16:11.22, the lOth-best ever for the distance. She has four of the top 10 times in the non-Olympic event. 
Evans didn't have any help. She had to race against herself. Second-place finisher Kim Small, 21, of Shelbeyville, Ind., was timed in 16:23.49. 
''I'm always disappointed when I'm not pushed but I didn't expect to get pushed," Evans said. 
University of Florida fresh­man Nicole Haislett got her third victory of the meet by capturing the 200 individual medley. She also grabbed the 100 and 200 freestyle titles. 
Haislett, 18, of St. Petersburg, Fla., beat a field that included double winner Janie Wagstaff. Wagstaff, who won the 100 and 200 backstroke, was nfth. 
Haislett was clocked in 
2:16.34 and was followed by Kristine Quance, 16, of Northridge, Calif., in 2:17.56. Wagstaff, who set an American record in the 100 backstroke preliminaries on Saturday, was timed in 2:19.53. 
Haislett took the lead from Wagstaff during the third stroke, the breaststroke, and kept her lead through the rmal freestyle leg. 
Haislett had a chance to get a fourth victory in the meet but came in sixth in the 50 freestyle. 
Summer Sanders, silver medalist at the World Championships in Perth, 

Australia, did not compete in the 200 individual medley. Sanders chose to swim events that she normally doesn't com­pete in at this meet after star­ring at the NCAA meet two weeks ago. 
Florida's Martin Zubero, 21, a dual citizen of the United States and Spain who has been on the Spanish Olympic team, had the best time in the men's 200 individual medley but he did it in the consolation race. His clocking was 2:01.50, the 11th fastest of all time. 
Zubero swam in the consola­tion because he is a foreigner. 
The men's 200 individual medley was won by Dave Wharton, 21, of Warminster, Pa., in 2:01.99. Wharton, a University of Southern California senior and former world record-holder in the event, outsprinted No. 1 quali­fier Ron Karnaugh, 24, of Maplewood, N.J., and out­touched him. Karnaugh, who led all the way until the end, was timed in 2:02.04. 
Wharton won the 400 indi­
vidual medley on Saturday night. 
The men's 50 freestyle winner was Steve Crocker, 27, an engi­neer for McDonnel-Douglas in St. Louis, in 22.44 seconds. 
In the men's 1,500, Lawrence Frostad, 24, of Sacramento, Calif., won in 15:18.40. He also won the 800 freestyle during the meet. 
Two American women's records fell in the five-day competition at the King County Aquatic Center, an $18 million pool that was built for the 1990 Goodwill Games. 
In addition to Wagstaff's record in the 100 backstroke of 1:01.10, Anita Nail, 14, a high school freshman from Towson, Md., established an American record in the 200 breaststroke of 2:27.08. 
The nation's premier meet was used to pick U.S. teams for the Pan Pacific Championships in Edmonton, Alberta, Aug. 22­25; the Pan American Games in Havana, Cuba, Aug. 11-17 and the World University Games in Sheffield, England, July 15-21. 
Jflll

CP-~~a Look Here! You :a~ gel the "Best Pizza in Town" at "their" price. 
For a limited time if you use a "Domino's" coupon you can get our pizza at their price. Order now, this offer is too good to last. Not valid with any other offer. Valid for dine in, carry out and delivery. For delivery on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Campus call 232-2499 
·-------------------------------------­
: 20% Discount : TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
I 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 
~
= 
---~ --e 

Professional Vision Dr. Ronald Snyder 
1635 N. Ironwood 
and Associates 

North of McDonald's 277-1161 
I 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY ANNUAL BERT AND ETTA LISS LECTURE 
I S U S A N N A H HESCHEL Department of Religious Studies, Southern Methodist University 
i 
i 
on CHRISTIAN FEMINISM FROM A JEWISH FEMINIST PERSPECTIVE 
MONDAY, APRIL 8

.i :
i i
8:00 p.m. 

: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM + 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• J 
JIN§~ 

It's A GIRL!! NNIFER OANYOST 7, 1991 inches long 124 pounds 
~~--~~----~~~~
P.S. Sitter wanted ~; MK 
HAVE SoME SERious FuN THIS SuMMER 
If you have to take a class this summer, don't settle for boring, drive-thru credit hours. 
At Saint Xavier College, we're offering a wide range of required and elective courses, taught by a top-rated faculty-on a real Chicago campus, with activities and events planned all summer long. 
We've got computers, science, nursing, education and business courses ... plus a travel-study tour of the American Southwest, the Taste of Chicago Writers' Conference, a trip to the Stratford, Ontario Shakespeare Festival, and more. 
For a summer schedule, call Anne Smith, Saint Xavier College Department of Continuing Studies, (312)779-3300, extension 281. 
Saint Xavier College 
OF CHICAGO 

3700 W. 103rd St.. Chicago. IL 60655 


--------------~--~---.-----------------------~~--------, 
Monday, April 1991 The Observer page 17 
Barkley-less Sixers defeat Chicago in OT, 114-111 
~ 
,,.,.ut';~ 

AP Photo The 76ers will be without the services of Charles Barkley, here guarding Utah's Karl Malone, for at least two weeks, but still beat the Bulls in Chicago yesterday. 
Professional Ethics Lecture Series 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. Executive Vice President 
Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President, Student Affairs 
Richard (Digger) Phelps Basketball Coach 
"Ethics in Sports" Monday, April 8, 1991 
Lecture to be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:00pm 
Sponsored by: The Provost Office, University Academic Code of Honor Committee, and Student Academic Council Committee 



CHICAGO (AP) -Hersey Hawkins scored 31 points and Philadelphia tied the NBA record for most overtime victo­ries in a season, beating the Chicago Bulls 114-111 on Sunday. 
Hawkins scored eight points in overtime as the 76ers handed the Bulls their second straight home loss. The Bulls are 32-6 at home, and two of the losses have been to Philadelphia. 
It was Philadelphia's eighth overtime win this season, tying the mark set by Milwaukee in 1977-78. The 76ers also equaled a league record with their 13th overtime game of the season, matching the mark set by the New York Knicks in 1950-51. 
Michael Jordan led Chicago with 41 points, while Scottie Pippen added 32. Ron Anderson scored 28 and Armon Gilliam 25 for Philadelphia. 
Cavaliers 1 02, Hornets 100 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -John Williams tipped in a missed shot by Brad Daugherty with three seconds left as Cleveland edged Charlotte. 
Larry Nance seored 32 points to lead the Cavaliers, who won their seeond dose game over the Hornets in three days. 
Charlotte had a chance to win after the tip-in by Williams, but Rex Chapman was called for charging on Craig Ehlo as time expired. Chapman was also called for charging on Ehlo in the dosing seconds of a three­point loss to Cleveland last Friday. 
Daugherty scored 23 points and grabbed 12 rebounds as the Cavaliers beat the Hornets for the fourth time in five meetings this season. Charlotte got 19 points from reserve forward Kenny Gattison, tying his season high. 
Spurs 92, Tlmberwolves 87 
MINNEAPOLIS -David Robinson scored 29 points, in­eluding a tiebreaking three­point play with 1:26 left, as San Antonio took a one-game lead in the Midwest Division. 
Robinson also grabbed 18 re­bounds and blocked five shots for the Spurs, who lead Houston by a game and Utah by two with eight games re­maining. 
It was San Antonio's fourth straight road win and eighth victory overall in its last nine games. It was also the Spurs' 50tl) victory of the season, the seventh time in elub history they've reached that plateau. 
Pooh Richardson had 19 points, 16 assists and nine re­bounds, narrowly missing the second triple-double ever for the Timberwolves. 
SuperSonics 124, Nuggets 
117 
DENVER -Eddie Johnson scored 21 of his 31 points in the second half and Seattle wore down the shorthanded Denver Nuggets. 
Denver's Michael Adams made all 17 of his foul shots, the third-highest total ever without a miss in an NBA game. The record of 19 is shared by Bob Pettit, Bill Cartwright and Adrian Dantley. 
Johnson made 15 of 16 free throws and Seattle's Ricky Pierce made all 12 of his at­tempts from the foul line. 
The Nuggets, who started with only nine players, lost Blair Rasmussen with an injury 10 minutes into the game and had two players foul out. 
Trail Blazers 110, Mavericks 92 
DALLAS -Clyde Drexler and Jerome Kersey combined for 10 consecutive points dur­ing a clinching fourth-quarter surge as Portland won its 1Oth straight game. 
The Trail Blazers, who have the NBA's best record, won their seventh straight road game and set a club mark with their 25th overall road victory. Portland also matched its sec­ond-longest overall winning streak. 
Lax 
continued from page 24 
gave up 11 goals," said Corrigan. "But at the times when we needed to, we shut them down defensively." 
Junior attackman Brian Schirf exploded for five goals and added two assists for the Irish. 
"It looks like we're finally getting it together," said Schirf. MWe usually have a lapse in the third quarter, but we took op­portune shots on offense and did a good job defensively." 
With Cornell the next Irish opponent, Notre Dame needed to play a confidence-building game, as they did against Denison. 
MWe were a step closer in this game to playing as well as I think we can play," said Corrigan. "We'll need to play even better against Cornell, and I know this team is capable of doing it." 
2112 S. Bend Ave. 
One mile from 
campus next 
to Coach's 
********* 


.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer Monday, April 8, 1991 
California group wins the initial running of Solar and Electric 200 car race through Arizona 
PHOENIX, Ariz. (AP) -An electric car, driven by Chris Smith of Palo Verdes Estates, Calif. reached 62 mph to win the inaugural Solar and Electric 200 car race Sunday, as an exhibition of alternative-energy vehicles concluded. 
Smith powered a Honda zinc-air CRX to victory at the Phoenix International Raceway, four laps ahead of James Worden of Arlington, Mass. 
Smith's car was sponsored by Arizona Public Service and Southern California Edison and was designed by Dreisbach ElectroMotive Inc. of Santa Barbara, Calif. 
Jeff Silverstone of Cal State­Los Angeles was third, followed by Rob Hamelink of Western Michigan and Chris Kabrick of Rose-Hulman Institute in Terre Haute, Ind. 
"We did as well as we could with our car, considering our financial limitations," said Chris Kaus, coordinator of the 

Aces 
continued from page 24 
the weekend against the con­ference foe, the Irish shut out the Aces 5-0. 
Sophomore David Sinnes earned the win for the Irish by allowing Evansville only five hits and no runs over eight-plus innings on the mound. Sinnes walked four and struck out nine. Danapalis earned his second save of the year after relieving Sinnes in the ninth in­ning. 
Binkiewicz was on fire at the plate again. The first baseman went 3 for 4 with a homer, two singles, and three RBis. Also driving in runs for the Irish were Counsell and Haas. 
Brent Baker was the losing pitcher for Evansville after giv­ing up five hits and five runs in seven innings on the mound. Bart Emig and Greg Spalding came in for the Aces in the eighth and ninth innings re­spectively. 
Research works. 
American Heart Association 
FREE 
TANNING 


Indiana entry. "We had only a $900 budget for this race. Other teams spent approxi­mately $10,000." 
An overheated battery box limited the Indiana team in Sunday's second 93-lap leg of the race, preventing the team from running in excess of 4 7 mph. 
"I wanted to push the car and challenge Western Michigan, but I didn't want to hurt the batteries," Kabrick said. "Overall, I'm not happy with our performance, but we did the best we could." 
Also in the two-day race for cars on solar power that ended Sunday, a car built by the Swatch watch company of Switzerland driven by Paul Balmer averaged 63.114 mph to win the 300-kilometer race. 
Balmer, a student at the University of Biel, beat Peter Rexer, whose car was built by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and finished 15 fewer laps than Balmer's car. 

St. John's women overwhelm the field at the quadrangular meet hosted by Irish 
By COQUESE WASHINGTON Sports Writer 
They must have been on a mission. 
From start to finish, the St. John's women's track team dominated their competition en route to capturing first-place honors at the women's quad­rangular track and field meet hosted by Notre Dame on Saturday. 
The Redwomen grabbed a to­tal of 77 points, followed by Western Michigan's 63. Drake University came in a distant third with 29, and Notre Dame rounded out the field of four, managing a disappointing point total of only 12. 
St. John's placed frrst in every field event except the javelin, led by Sonja Fitts' three first­place finishes in the hammer­throw, shot put and discus. Western took both first and second place in the javelin, the only event of the day not domi­nated by St. John's. 
Karen Harris, a sophomore for Notre Dame, performed well in the field events for the Irish, throwing the shot 41'8' and the discus 125'8"; good enough to capture second and fourth places, respectively. 

But when the running events commenced, St. John's contin­ued to wreak havoc upon their opponents. 
Their 4xl00m-relay team placed second (48.3); their "A" and "B" 4x400m-relay teams placed second and third respec­tively; Siobhan Murphy took first in the 1500m run (4:34.99) and the BOOm run (2:17.03); Simone Brooks, who also placed first in the long jump, took the top spot in the lOOm dash (11.96) and the 200m dash (25.29) as well; Marion Irwin finished second in the 3000m run (10:15.4); and Christine O'Sullivan won the most difficult sprinting event, the 400m hurdles, with a time of 104.49. 
Third-place finishes in the lOOm dash by Latrice Waters 
(12.34) and by the 4xl00m re­lay team of Ashea Price, Kristin Stovall, Ingrid Lacy, and Waters ( 48.4), was the best the Irish could do. No other running event saw the Irish place higher than fourth. 
Nevertheless, the Irish run­ners were not discouraged. 
"We knew coming in that these teams were good, and the competition would be tough," said freshman sprinter Latrice Waters. "But the only way for us to get quality meet experi­ence is to run against teams of this caliber." 
The next stop for the Notre Dame women will be Knoxville, Tenn., where they will partici­pate in the Dogwood Relays Aprill2-13. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATION MEMORIAL PR<LRAM, 
~ 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'lOUR UFE 

VAmerican Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
DART COURSE CHANGES BIOS 103 01 2416 BIOS 195 01 2417 CE 452 01 0632 CHEM 201 01 0675 CHEM 201 02 0676 EE 453 01 0866 FS 180 19 1107 GOVT 441 01 2867 HIST 353 01 2909 
LAW 638 01 3357 LAW 511 01 3352 LAW 511 02 3353 MI 621 01 2557 MUS 503 01 2968 PHYS 205 01 2536 THEO 621 01 2557 
DART COURSES ADDED 
ACCT 487 01 3397 AMST 360 01 3383 
AMST 390 01 3400 
ARST 487S 01 0459 
EE 498 01 3403 EE 598 01 3404 ENGL 319E 01 3402 
!IPS 471H 01 3283 
LAW 501 03 3399 LAW 691A 01 3398 
NOT  "Permission Required"  
NOT  "Permission Required"  
new  time:  08:00-09:15  T H  

should be "Permission Required" should be "Permission Required" new time: 11:15-12:05 M W F 
new days: 01:15-02:30 M w 
new time: 01:15-02:05 M W F 
NOT "Permission Required"; should be "Majors 
only through  3rd period  ,  then open  to  all"  
new  time:  12:30-01:20  
new  time:  03:00-03:50  and  04:00-04:50  
new  time:  03:00-03:50  and  04:00-04:50  
new  time:  09:30-12:00  T  
should be  1  cr.  hr  

new starting & ending dates: 11/07/91-12/12/91 new time: 09:30-12:00 T 
Accounting Lyceum, 2 cr. hrs., M 3:25-5:30 News in American Life, 3 cr. hrs., TH 11:00­12:15 Society and Culture in New England, 3 cr. hrs. , MWF 03:25-04:15; majors only thru 2nd period, then open to all Senior Seminar, 3 cr. hrs., W 10:10-12:05; ARST 
or DESN Senior majors only Heterojunction Devices Heterojunction Devices Contemporary Literature of cr. hrs., T H 11:00-12:15 
HIST 471 01 3366 

The  u.s.  and  Vietnam  War,  
12:15-01:05  
The  U.S.  and  Vietnam  War,  
12:15-01:05  

Eastern Europe, 3 3 cr. hrs. , MWF 3 cr. hrs., MWF 

Torts I  3  cr.  hrs.,  MWF  11:00-11:50  
Intro  to  Classical  Roman  Law,  2  cr.  hrs.,  T  
04:00-06:00  
PHIL 241 01 3395 Ethics 3 cr. hrs., T H 02:45-04:00 PHIL 241 02 3396 Ethics 3 cr. hrs., T H 04:15-05:30 PSY 642 01 3367 Infant Development and Disfunction, 3 cr. hrs., 


F 09:30-12:00 PSY 650 01 3368 Adulthood and Aging, 3 cr. hrs. STV 371 01 3384 Nature in America, 3 cr. hrs., TH 01:15-02:30: 
cross-list with AMST371 
COURSES CANCELLED 
EE 498H 01 3348 MARK 231 09 1314 MARK 350 01 1315 LAW 663 01 1294. 

Monday, AprilS, 1991 The Observer page 19 
The Galaxy defeats the fumble-prone NY-NJ Knights 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -If it had been raining or snowing or sleeting, Mouse Davis might have been willing to accept what happened to the New York-New Jersey Knights In their home opener. 
But seeing the winless Knights lose six of 12 fumbles on a beautiful spring night In their 27-17 loss to the Frankfurt Galaxy (2-1) was a little too much for Davis. 
~Pathetic, unbelievable," the Knights coach said Saturday after his run 'n shoot offense self-destructed for the third straight week of the World· League of American Football. 
The fumbles were only part of the problem. The Knights also allowed 10 sacks ­they've given up 27 this season -and had a punt blocked to set up one of three touchdown passes by Mike Perez. The last Galaxy TD resulted when cornerback Vince Courville failed to down Jason Johnson after he caught a pass, allowing the receiver to get up and score on a 34-yard pass play. 
"This is as bad as I've seen an offense perform," Davis 
You cansaymanythings aboutMacintosh. 
Available now­limited supply! 
~ 

But "I can'tafford it' is no longerone ofthem. 
You can talk about how simple the Apple"' Macintosh"' computer is to use. Or how it can think the way you think. Or how compatible it is with other computers. 
But think again when the word "expensive" comes to mind. Because it's just not true any more. 
Introducing the Macintosh Classic"' computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it has all the capabilities you need to handle basic applications, such as 

word processing and spreadsheet NOTREI>AME 
COMPUTER STORE 
Offitc of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phooe: 239·7477 Hours: Mon.• Fri., 9:00 • 5:00 c 1990 App1t Coolptfa,ln< Applt, m. App1t kJso, ~Sup<IDnYr and Prol.l(l; aN "~~""<milladcnwb <i App1t enmp..cr, Inc. <laoOc. i ~--"' 
AP!*Coolpo!t!,lr<. MS-IXl\isa~ll1d<marli<>IMicroooliQJopontioo ooa•a~ttad<mall<<ii......-..I-..,.Madlin<sCJJoponllon 
-----------~-----------­
said. "And since I coach the of­fense, I take full responsibility. I'm totally embarrassed. I don't remember ever looking that bad in any football game, at any level." 
In other WLAF games Saturday, London beat Orlando 35-12 and Barcelona downed Raleigh-Durham 26-14. 
On Sunday, San Antonio won for the first time, a 10-3 victory over Sacramento. 
The 12 fumbles by the Knights would have been a record in the NFL. The NFL standard is 10, last accom­plished by San Francisco on Dec. 17, 1978. 
Nine of the Knights' fumbles belonged to quarterback Jeff Graham. Four came on mis­handled snaps, four on sacks and one on a run. 
"There's no excuse for that," said Graham, who completed 5 of 13 passes for 101 yards and was the victim of all 10 sacks. "The offense has been hurting itself more than anything else." 
New York-New Jersey was limited to 123 total yards by the Galaxy and the quarterback tandem of Graham and Todd Hammel completed 5 .of 19 passes for 101 yards. Subtracting the 72 yards lost in sacks, the Knights had 29 total yards passing, something the run 'n shoot offense Isn't sup­posed to do. 

"We're going to have to nar­row it down," Davis said of his offense. "There's no other choice. Maybe we'll just run four plays and make it real simple. We have to get things squared away." 
General confusion was the term most of the Galaxy de­fenders used to describe the Knights' offense. 
~we were bringing everything at them," Galaxy defensive end Mark Mraz said. "We had them guessing. They didn't know who to block. That's evidenced by the fumbles and the sacks." 
Perez, a former New York Giants draft choice, completed 22 of 36 passes for 261 yards. His other touchdowns came on a 3-yard pass to Cedric Gordon and a 6-yarder to Chad Fortune, both In the opening quarter. 
Riders 10, Surge 3 
analysis. The Classic is acompletely integrated Macintosh system. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect-such as built-in networking and the Apple SuperDrive"' disk drive, which 
lets the Classic read from and write to MS-DOS, OS/2, and ProDOS"' flies. 
Stop in today. We'll show you how it's possible for nearly anyone to afford a Macintosh. Comfortably. 
At San Antonio, reserve quar­terback Mike Johnson led the Riders 10 points in a 3-minute span in the third quarter and the defense held Sacramento to just one first down in the sec­ond half. 
Johnson, who because of in­juries became the third San Antonio quarterback in as many games threw an 8-yard touchdown pass to Bill Hess to give the Riders their first lead of the game at 7-3 with 4:35 left in the third quarter before a crowd of 6,772 at Alamo Stadium. 
A fumbled snap by Surge quarterback Mike Elkins led to a 31-yard field goal by Jim Gallery with 1:17 remaining in the third quarter to end the scoring. 
Johnson finished the game 12-for-27 for 164 yards with one interception. 
Sacramento scored the only points of the frrst half on a 45­yard field goal by Kendall Trainor in the second quarter. 
Dragons 26, Skyhawks 14 
At Raleigh, N.C., former NFL running back Paul Palmer rushed for 133 yards on 28 carries to lead Barcelona. 

The unbeaten Dragons (3-0) spoiled the home opener for the Skyhawks (0-3), who pulled to 20-14 in the third quarter on a 1-yard sneak by quarterback Bobby McAllister and a 2-point conversion run by Sean Doctor. Barcelona's Thomas Woods scored on a 2 7 -yard reverse with nine minutes left, increas­ing the Dragons' lead to 12 points. 
Monarchs 35, Thunder 12 
In London, David Smith had a pair of short touchdown runs and the Monarchs' defense smothered Orlando's passing attack. 
Smith scored on runs of 3 and 1 yards, Jeff Alexander ran 4 yards for a touchdown and Victor Ebubedike, a Briton, added a late 1-yard run for the Monarchs (3-0). Stan Gelbaugh also threw a 38-yard touch­down pass to Tony Sargent. 
The Thunder (2-1), which scored 93 points in its first two games, was limited to two field goals until the fourth quarter. 
Track 
continued from page 24 
previously held by Stephen Wray of Southern Illinois. 
Bennett's effort-which also provisionally qualified him for the NCAA championships-was all the more Impressive because of the windy conditions present Saturday. 
~I came out feeling l had nothing to lose, that I could just enjoy myself," Bennett said. "The wind played a major fac­tor today ... once, the bar fell off while I was on my approach. I knew I could clear 7-2 112, but I was hoping to do it on my first attempt," during which the wind had died down. 
Notre Dame is next in action next Friday and Saturday at the Dogwood Relays In Knoxville, Tennessee. 

TONIGHT! 
WOMEN A Film Festival 
How Filmmakers Depict Women 
presents 
HARLAN CouNTY, U.S.A. 
with discussion by Teresa Ghilarducci 
Monday, April 8 
ETS Theatre, CCE 
7:30p.m. $2.50 co-sponsored by Year of Women and Educational Media 
239-5465 

-~-----------------------~---­
page 20 The Observer Monday, April 8, 1991 
Rangers tie up series with 6-0 blanking of the Caps 
Mike Richter had 37 saves in his first NHL shutout and Bernie Nicholls had two goals and two assists to spark the Rangers. 
Richter, who had gone 76 games without a shutout, was seriously tested on only a few occasions -the last time a blast from the crease by Tim Bergland with three minutes left. He has allowed only three goals in playing all three playoff games. 
It matched the Capitals' worst playoff loss and marked only the second time Washington had been shut out in 71 playoff games. Washington had not been shut out at home since Feb. 6, 1988. 
The Rangers, meanwhile, chased Washington goalie Don Beaupre, who had blanked them on Friday after allowing only two goals in the series opener. Beaupre allowed four goals in the opening two peri­ods before giving way to Mike Uut for the final period. 
"He's the best, no question in my mind," Nicholls said of Richter. "I've seen (Grant) Fuhr in his prime, and I always though Fuhr was the best I've played against. But this kid is unbelievable. He's great." 
Penguins 4, Devils 3 
Weinrich was in the low slot when he failed to handle the puck, which was flipped into the air by Phil Bourque from center ice. Weinrich wanted to glove the puck as it came down, but he missed it and then knocked it with his stick toward goalie Chris Terreri. 
Recchi, streaking down the middle of the ice, lunged at the puck with his stick and it went between Terreri's legs for the game-winner and his second goal of the game. 
"It hit the back of my glove and took a funny bounce so far away from me," Weinrich said. "It hit the ice and Recchi was right there." 
New Jersey rallied from one­goal deficits three times to tie the game. The last tie was forged when Doug Brown scored shorthanded by beating Penguins goalie Tom Barrasso between the pads with a 45-foot shot with 5:14 left in regulation. 
Sabres 5, canadlens 4 
Defenseman Mike Ramsey's soft shot beat goalie Patrick Roy to snap a tie and give the Sabres their victory over Montreal. Ramsey moved in from the point to take a pass from Rob Ray before drifting a 12-footer over Roy at 2:28 of the third period. 
Tony Tanti, Christian Ruuttu, Benoit Hogue and Grant Ledyard also scored for Buffalo. Montreal got two goals from Brent Gilchrist and single goals from Shayne Corson and Russ Courtnall. 
"I just got it off the toe of my stick. I thought I was shooting to the other side of the net," said Ramsey, who has scored four playoff goals in his 12 pro seasons. "I just got a piece of it and I think that's what threw him off. Probably if I got good wood on it, he would have stopped it." 
Bruins 6, Whalers 3 
Dave Christian and Garry Galley scored 18 seconds apart to spark a four-goal third period as Boston beat Hartford. 
Bob Sweeney added a goal three minutes later for Boston and Craig Janney added a goal on a two-man advantage. Ray Bourque and Glen Wesley also had power-play goals for the Bruins. 
Boston goalie Andy Moog, who struggled in the first two games, was sharp. He made 22 saves to shut down Hartford, which controlled the flow the frrst two periods. 
Moog, who had let in two easy goals in Game 2, kept the 


AP Photo 
Normand Rochefort and the New York Rangers picked up a win over the Capitals as New York goalie Mike Richter had his first shutout. 
Bruins in the game until their three shots in 15 seconds. The third-period scoring spree. He best was a 15-foot wrist shot had several key saves on through a crowd by Mark Hartford's power play at the Hunter that Moog got his end of the first period, stopping blocker on. 
Inter-Hall baseball season opens up with a large number of teams and rainy weather 
ByGREGWACH Sports Writer 
This spring Notre Dame's Inter-Hall Baseball League is enjoying its largest season ever, with 25 men's teams divided into five divisions. The league has never had more teams or players, and is evidence of the vitality of Non­Varsity Athletics here on campus.
Within each five-team divi­sion each team will play four games and receive one bye. The top two teams from each division will then advance to the playoffs. 
The first week of the season was marred by rainouts, as many of the games, all played at Babe Ruth Field at St. Joseph's High School just across Route 31 from Notre Dame, were rescheduled to later dates. 
In the Blue Division, Off­Campus II dropped their opener to Stanford I and then lost 8-7 to the Violence of Pangborn A. Flanner A and Cavanaugh II both have not played due to rain, but will meet this Wednesday. 
The White Division contains two of the most respected teams in the league, Grace I and Off-Campus I, and a possi­ble challenger. Grace I, the defending Inter-Hall champion, has yet to play, but Off-Campus I defeated Dillon A2 1-0. Yesterday St. Edward's defeated Carroll 19­0, serving notice that the White's two playoff spots will be hotly contested. 
The Flanner B team opened Red Division play last week with an 8-4 victory over Keenan, and yesterday Alumni II defeated Grace II 7-3. Next Sunday the two unbeatens, the Gamecocks and the Dogs, will meet at 6 p.m. 

The Gold Division appears to be another strong one, with Holy Cross and Cavanaugh the early favorites to secure playoff bids. Holy Cross, playing in its final season, opened with a 1-0 shutout of Grace III. The Cavanaugh Crusaders began with a rout, crushing Pangborn B 22-3. Fisher has yet to play, but will open on Saturday, April 13, at 10 a.m. against Holy Cross. Today Grace III will attempt to win its first game as it plays Cavanaugh I at 7 p.m. under the lights at St. Joe's. 
The Green Division features early favorite Alumni I. The Dogs opened with a blowout over Stanford II, and will play Sorin today at 5 p.m. Keenan I has not played, but will face Dillon A1 this Wednesday. Dillon opened with a late game last night against Stanford II. 
Some employers promise 
you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
LEASING NOW FOR AUGUST 
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR SELECTION. 
1 & 2 Bedroom Units Many Amenities: 
All utilities included  Balconies/ Patios  
Spacious Apartments  Indoor Pool &Jacuzzi  
Central Air  Weight Machine  
Shuttle Bus  24 Hour Laundry  

Tennis-Volleyball-Basketball Courts 
For More Information Call 272-1441 
Monda~Apri18, 1991 The Observer page 21 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
IThe Irish Heartlltes fun runs are coming up April 11. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 
ISports Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune during business hours. 
IFormer Oxford Cricketer Dr. Walshe will hold a discussion Tuesday, April 9 at 8 pm in 115 O'Shaughnessy. All are welcome to attend. 
IThe Water Polo Club will have an important meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. to discuss this weekend's tournament. 
IND/SMC Sailing Club: There will be practice every day at 3 
p.m. Lessons will be offered on Monday and Tuesday. For more Information about these lessons, call Eric Bremer 288-9359. There also will be a meeting Tuesday at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. 
IThe Athletic Department will sponsor a series of six {6) swimming lessons for the female students, faculty, staff and administration. Classes will be taught by female water safety instructors and held on April 9, 11, 16, 18, 23 and 25. Classes are free of charge and will be by level of ability from basic on up. Advance registration is necessary. Contact Dennis Stark at 239­5983 if interested. 
EARN $5500 THIS SUMMER 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS VALUABLE RESUME EXPERIENCE 
SOUTHWESTERN COMPANY INFORMATION MEETINGS 5:30 AND 7:30 O'SHAG ROOM 206 MONDAY, APRIL 8 
TUESDAY, APRIL 9 WEDNESDAY, APRILIO 

lJrcoming Evmts 
Lectures 
TUESDAY, APRIL 9 
REV. CHARLES J. BEIRNE, S.J. Academic Vice President of the Universidad Centroamericana (UCA), San Salvador, El Salvador 


"REVISIONING THE UNIVERSITY: THE LESSON OF EL SALVADOR" 4:00 p.m. -Auditorium of the new Hesburgh Center 
Coeponeorecl with the Kellogg lneUtute, the Center for Civil •nd Hum•n Rlghte, the Center for Socl•l Conceme, and the Departmante ol Theology and Sociology 
THURSDAY. APRIL 11 
SR. JOAN CHITTISTER, OSB Benedictine Sisters of Erie, PA 
"RELIGION AND PEACEMAKING: FOR FEAR OF THE SAMSON SYNDROME" 
4:00 p.m. -Auditorium of the new Hesburgh Center 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL

IIIII~N~~£;;~?!7 
Saint Mary's track team finishes in 5th place in the Manchester Invitational 
By JULIE SCULLY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team participated in the Manchester Invitational on Saturday April 6 at Manchester College. The Belles finished an impressive fifth place. 
Co-captain Lynn Pfeffer, ju­nior, said, "The weather was definitely a positive motiva­tional force. It was a nice change to run in such warm weather." 
Coach Larry Szczechowski also commented that the weather had much to do with the Belles' performance. 
The Belles are in mid-season and are continuing to improve. Coach Szczechowski said, "The team members are enthusiastic about their progress this sea­son." 
Individually, freshman Tenesia Davis won first place in the 200-meter dash with a time of 27.38. In the 4x100 meter relay, a team of freshman Christy Labarbera, freshman Tenesia Davis, junior Lynn Pfeffer and freshman Katie Linehan finished fourth, setting a new school record with a time of 52.96 seconds. 
"The relay was exciting and it's always a good feeling to set 

Ricky Rudd passes Dave Allison to win the TranSouth 500 in record time 
DARLINGTON, S.C. (AP) ­
Ricky Rudd ran the fastest race 
ever at Darlington Raceway on 
Sunday to win the TranSouth 500 -his first victory at the • oldest NASCAR superspeedway. 
Rudd, who was able to run 
about 15 laps longer on a tank 
of gas than his fellow drivers, 
inherited the lead when Dave 
Allison pitted for four tires on 
his Ford with just 37 laps to go. 
The pit stop dropped Allison 
back to second, nearly a lap 
back of Rudd. Rudd, who was 
able to run the final 73 laps 
without pitting, wasn't chal­
lenged the rest of the way en 
route to his 12th career victory. 
Rudd, driving a Chevrolet, av­eraged 135.594 mph, which broke the track record of 
135.462 mph set by Dale Earnhardt in the 1989 Southern 
500. The TranSouth 500 record was 131.284 mph, set by Lake Speed in 1988. 
There were only three cau­
tions for 18 laps, which broke 
the records of five cautions for 
39 laps in the 1983 TranSouth 
500. 

Rudd started 13th and was an 
unlikely winner on a sunny 
afternoon. He had not finished 
in the top 10 in this race since 
1984, when he was ninth. His 
best finish was third in 1983. 
But Rudd has run well this year, finishing in the top three in three of the season's first five races. 
The Chesapeake, Va., driver picked up $62,185 for the 11.4­second victory at what most say is the toughest NASCAR su­perspeedway. 
Michael Waltrip finished third after dominating the race for much of the day, leading for 208 of the first 299 laps. The only time he lost the lead up until then was when he had to pit under a green flag. 
But a broken air wrench at a pit stop on lap 299 cost Waltrip a shot at his first Winston Cup victory. When Waltrip finally emerged from the pits, he was almost a lap back of Allison, who took the lead when Waltrip pitted. 
Waltrip's Pontiac then dropped a cylinder on lap 321 and had to pit once more, end­ing his chances at the 1.366­mile oval. 
Earnhardt failed to get higher than fourth as he tried to become the first driver to win four straight races at Darlington. Earnhardt finished 29th in a Chevrolet. 
Earnhardt also lost his lead in the points race to Rudd, who now has 808 points and an 80­point lead over Earnhardt. 
new records" said Pfeffer. "We were all really psyched." 
Pfeffer also received a third place in javelin with a 104'9 and a fifth place in the triple jump. In the 4x400 meter relay sophomore Cheryl Fortunak, freshman Sara Gildea, freshman Jill Wertjes, and junior Beth Seymour finished fourth place. Sophomore Julie Beem placed fifth in 100-meter hurdles. Finally, freshman Christy Labarabera placed sixth in 400-meter hurdles. 
The Belles next meet is Saturday, April 13th, at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis. 
Rudd had been second, 24 points behind, coming into the race. 
Only the three top finishers were on the lead lap at the end. Mark Martin finished fourth, a lap down, while Rusty Wallace was two laps back in fifth. 
Two of the three cautions came in the first 33 laps and eliminated from contention both Harry Gant and Alan Kulwicki, who started fifth and sixth. Both cautions were brought out by Bill Meacham, who started 38th and was a lap down at the time. 
The first caution came out on lap 24 when Meacham bumped Kulwicki from behind. Kulwicki spun on the front straightaway and then hit the inside retaining wall. Kulwicki returned some 70 laps later after extensive re­pairs to his Ford. 
The field wasn't able to get a full lap in under green before a second caution was brought out. Gant was trying to pass Meacham in turn three when Meacham drifted high, causing a wreck that involved five cars on lap 32. Gant was able to continue, but only after exten­sive work in the pits to repair extensive damage to the body of his Oldsmobile. Gant is a two­time winner of the TranSouth 500. 
' 
page 22 The Observer Monday, April 8, 1991 
Saint Mary's softbal·l goes 1-2 
By TASHA TIGHT Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team arose Saturday morning, traveled to Chicago, and then played three well-fought games in a row in the North Central College Tournament. The team returned with one win and two close losses to make their record 6-5. 
Saint Mary's defeated Northeastern University 12-11 in the first game. Defensively the team started off slowly and Norlheastern was able to score four quick runs in the first in­ning. 
"The team was not awake in the first couple of innings," said Coach Don Cromer. "We started coming back and we were hitting the ball extremely well." 
The Belles began to play more consistently and fought hard until the end. Pitcher Stephanie Kisscorni was credited with the win. 
"We overcame an early deficit 
Ball 
continued from page 24 
acquisition of Tim Raines and Charlie Hough, is that the Athletics will be without the services of Carney Lansford for quite some time. The .Ns have also lost 17 -game winner Scott Sanderson to the New York Yankees. Add in such ingredients as talent and the desire of the entire White Sox organization, one old Fisk, one fiesty Venezuelan shortstop, bake for two seasons and serve. 
The Athletics, in an occurrence beneficial to their egos and the good of baseball, will finish second, followed by Texas, Seattle, Kansas City, and started hitting well," com­mented junior tri-captain Janet Libbing. "In the bottom of the seventh we scored off strong hits and that's what won the game for us." 

The Belles took the field again in the second game losing to the host team, North Central, 2-1. The team played well offensively and defensively but it was unable to score runs. 
"We had runners on third with only one out in many in­nings but we couldn't get them in," said Cromer. "Our defense played well too, but North Central took the win." 
Janet Libbing hit a home run early in the game making the score 1-0. North Central got lucky and scored two runs late in the game off a nice hit down the third base line. The runner at second was caught stealing before the hit but a controver­sial safe call kept her on base which gave them the extra run. Kisscorni again pitched a good game. 
The Belles faced Lake Forest 
California and Minnesota. 

•National League East. Should Chicago consider changing its nickname from the "Windy City" to the "City of Champions?" That would be premature, but after adding George Bell, Danny Jackson and a healthy Rick Sutcliffe, the Cubs are heavily favored to win the East. 
The Cubbies will be followed closely by the New York Mets-not. The Mets will finish fourth-behind the still potent Pittsburgh Pirates and surpris­ing Montreal Expos -and ahead of Saint Louis and Philadelphia. The Cardinals are promising, but still lacking in several areas. The Phillies need a starting rotation, but other-College in the final game of the tournament. Saint Mary's was ahead throughout the game but a few late inning runs by Lake Forest made the score 8-7. Senior pitcher Michelle Pinter took the loss despite a strong showing. The Belles played well defensively and hit the ball well but the team was tired and became slightly inconsistent. 

"We made little errors that seemed to pile up," added Libbing. "Lake Forest took ad­vantage of our errors and came away with the win." 
The game was tied until the last inning when Lake Forest scored the runner on second after a solid hit to left field. 
Overall Sa:int Mary's played good softball as the close scores suggest. "All in all we played really well," said Libbing. "The scores were close and we could have won the tournament. The skill level wasn't different but we came home with two losses AP Photo 
which is unfortunate." Four-time Indy 500 champ A.J. Foyt prepares to run a few practice The Belles take the field on laps at the Brickyard, after not racing since last summer when he 
• sustained severe injuries in an accident.
Tuesday at home. 

wise are a solid club. Look for Philadelphia to fade in mid-· July, unless Ricky Jordan and Sil Campusano can mature quickly. 
The Expos, led by Delino DeShields, Marquis Grissom and Ivan Calderon (acquired from the White Sox) should make the race interesting. Barry Jones will help an otherwise shaky Montreal pitching staff, but the Expos could have big troubles with their catchers. The loss of Tim Raines will also hurt. 
•National League West. Reggie Jackson was once the straw that stirred the Yankees's metaphorical drink. This season, a Strawberry named Darryl will be stirring a mixed drink called the Los Angeles Dodgers. Brett Butler, Bob Ojeda and Kevin Gross-new additions to an already formidable Dodger team-should give Tommy Lasorda the tools he needs to overtake Lou Piniella's Cincinnati Reds for the West title. The Dodgers, however, are picked to finish a close second to the World Champion Reds simply because of the Reds experience. 
The Reds have added closer Ted Power, but lost Danny Jackson and Rick Mahler. Nonetheless, the Reds are re­turning a brash and experi­enced World Championship club. Look for them to battle Los Angeles down to the wire. 
The San Diego Padres-with Fred McGriff and Tony Gwynn-should score their share of runs, but also give up more than their share in finish­ing fourth. San Francisco (third), Atlanta (fifth) and Houston will round out the West. 
•American 
League Playoffs: Chicago White Sox over the Boston Red Sox in six games. 

•National 
League Playoffs: NL West champion over the Cubs. 


And the new World Champions? The Cincinnati Reds over the White Sox, or the White Sox over the Dodgers. 
Yet October is still a mirage on the horizon, and much is sure to change by then. See you at the ballpark. 
SENIORS Take the road less travelled ... consider HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES A one-year, post-graduate experience strvssing service, community living, simj2le life~le, and j2raJler SECOND APPUCATION DEADLINE: * APRIL 12 * For more information contact: Mary Ann White ­239-5521 Mary Ann Roemer ­239-7949  STYLES OF PRAYER A RETREAT FOR SENIORS Come spend two days learning about and experiencing various prayer forms including: Scriptural prayer Centering prayer Meditational prayer Sessions will be led by: Rev. AI D'Aionso Ms. Laurie Brink Rev. John Dunne Rev. Michael Himes Ms. Judy Hutchinson Ms. Tammy Liddell Rev. Thomas McDermott Cost is $10.00 Register in the Library Campus Ministry Office before April12 Don't miss out! This may be your last chance to participate on a Notre Dame retreat  
EXPERIENCED SPEECH/DEBATE COACH NEEDED If interested call Nancy at 277-2942. Graduate Students Encouraged To Apply Experience Required  

Monday, April 8, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CROSSWORD

CAMPUS 
Monday 
7:30 p.m. "How Filmmakers Depict Women," Harlan County, U.S.A.," discussion following film. ETC Theatre, Center for Continuing Education. Admission $. Sponsored by Year of 
Women. 
LECTURES 
Monday 
4 p.m. "The Heturn of Rutabaga Red: Accidental and Deliberate Choices in a Career Path," Carroll Auditorium -Madeleva Hall -SMC, speaker is Jerry McElroy. 
7 p.m. "A New Eastern Europe: Soviet, Polish and Lithuanian Perspectives." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Government and the Graduate Student Union. Speakers are George Brinkley. dept of gov. and international studies, and Lucjan T. Orlowski, American Council on Education Fellow. 
7:30 p.m. College of Science's Annual Nieuwland Series in Biological Sciences, "The Path of Women Ecologists: Progress from the 19th Century to the Present," Jean Langenheim, professor, University of California, Santa Cruz. Room 283, Galvin Life Science Building. Sponsored by Biological Sciences. 
8 p.m. Annual Liss Lecture, "Christian Feminist Perspective, " Susannah Jleschel, Southern Methodist University. Center for Continuing Education. Auditorium. Sponsored by Theology Department. 
8 p.m. "Origins of Scientific Literacy in the United States," Jon Miller, Ph.D Northern Illinois University, DeKalb. Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame Chapter of Sigma Xi, the Research Society. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Noodle Soup BBQ Ribs Shepherd's Pie Pasta Bar 
ACROSS 31 "-the World" 58 Taverns 33 Bankbook abbr. 59 Roof overhangs 
1 Speech defect 5--Stoker, 34 Overture aoSte. --de Dracula's 35 Derided Beaupre creator 37 J. Low or g. 11 Table support 9Quip 38 Baseball-bat 62 Tore 12 Scent lumber 
63 Surfeit13 Mrs. Gorbachev 39"-Doone" 14 Horde 

40Avoid 15 First-rate DOWN
41 -Islands,
17 Taxco toiler 
bird sanctuary 

1 Tennis ploys 18 Kind of ace or 43 Finite
break 2 Unemployed 
46 Ribbed fabrics 

19 Most luxurious 3 Bitter 
47 Nautical chain 

21 Adherent: Suffix 4 Show for critics 48 Prophesied
22 Nickel or dime 5 Ruth or 23 Professions Didrikson
51 Most obtuse 27 Snuggles 55 Barren &Kid 
30Again 56 Cranial mass 7 Hebrew lyre a Hand work 9Gosignal 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1001dTestament 
book 

13 Kitchen utensil 14 Plant pest 16 Ceremony 20Ciphered 
-=+=--~~+=-B 23 Conspiracy 88-::-fii!II-;;;.+-::+;+;..J..;..~~=+±~ 24 Cordial flavor i.l-::.+.:.-8 25 Diversionary 
tactic 26Scimitar 27Waterway 

~=.+:-..:..j..:..::..,. .;;;+~::-fl!~:..j..::.+==-~~ 28 Result 
~~.:..f...:'4.:..;.~1-=-=-! 29 Bear 

-:::-+7+.:-+.::+.::CE+=-1 32 Raptorial sea bird 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

35 Rebukes 36 Bouquets worn 
at proms 40 Noonday naps 42 Garden 
invaders 44Articles 45 Starling's 
cousin 48 Go broke 49 Camembert 
cheese region 50 Envelop 

51 Colored 
52 Active European volcano 
53 Transmitted 54 Catalpa or paulownia 
57 Lexington or Madison in N.Y.C. 


TODA'I' 1t1£Y PV.SHE.D M£ Too tAR! !'Vt. DECIDED fO GUIT MY JOB. Tl/(;'f'R£ NOT U,OtN6t To HAVE. N£ To KICK AROUND 
ANYMORE! 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
•
JAY HOSLER 




Sports 
page 24 Monday, April 8, 1991 
Irish baseball splits four games with Purple Aces 
By JENNIFER MARTEN up four-baggers to Evansville four hits. Leahy gave up eight Sports Writer sluggers Marty Watson and hits and six earned runs in his 
Kevin Krizan. In addition to his four innings of work. The Notre Dame baseball team home run, Watson went 3 for 3 The losing pitcher was Gerry split two doubleheaders with with two RBis. Tim Marx also Croankin, the first of five Midwestern Collegiate drove in a run for the Aces. Evansville pitchers to see action Conference foe, Evansville, this In the second game of the in the game. weekend. doubleheader, the Irish turned The Irish started slow again 
The Irish lost their first the tables on Evansville, rock­on Sunday losing the first game contest with the Aces 5-0, but ing the Aces for twelve runs. 2-1. rebounded in a big way to win Junior Joe Binkiewicz was a Outhitting Evansville, the team the second game 12-6. On one man wrecking crew pound­had eight hits for the game Sunday, the team again lost the ing the parade of Evansville with Danapalis and Leahy first game of the day to hurlers with three home runs contributing two apiece off Evansville. This time it was a and seven RBis while going winning pitcher Greg Willming tight ballgame and they lost 2-1 4 for 5. (5-3). With a fourth inning in the late innings. In the sec­Also contributing a homer to single, Leahy (2 for 2) drove in ond game, the Irish shut out the Irish effort was sophomore freshman Matt Haas, the only the Aces 5-0. Eric Danapalis who went 2 for Notre Dame baserunner to 
In the first game on Saurday, 6 with two RBis. Junior Craig cross the plate. the Notre Dame squad was Counsell, sophomore Adam Freshman Tom Price (2-2) had offenseless, collecting only five Maisano, and freshman Greg an excellent game on the hits against winner Greg Layson did their part by driving mound allowing only three hits MacCanley during the game. in a run apiece. and holding the Aces scoreless Junior Cory Mee led the Irish Sophomore Chris Michalak (3-until the sixth inning. In the with two hits including a 1) got the win for the Irish after sixth, the Aces scored two runs double. coming in for Irish starter on a triple by Watson. 
The Aces rocked Irish hurler sophomore Pat Leahy in the In the fourth and final game of 
The I Andrew McCloskey 
AI Walania (4-4) for seven hits fourth inning. Michalak 
The Notre Dame baseball team split two doubleheaders with Evansville
including two homers. The pitched five-plus innings of 
this weekend. 

see ACES I page 18
Notre Dame sophomore gave scoreless ball giving up only 
Depth helps Notre Dame men cruise to a track victory 
By RENE FERRAN to get nervous. I just had to 
"Usually, when the gun mis­4x100 (41.0) and the 4x400 Associate Sports Editor come out here, throw, and hope fires, they call us back to the (3:17.8) relays as well. for the best," Mihalko said. line," Clark said. "I thought he But the key to the Irish vic­
" 
Superior depth and eight in­"Normally, I don't like cross­would call us back, so I stopped tory was their ability to spread dividual event victories fueled winds, but everyone else was and turned around to see if he their points out. Notre Dame the Notre Dame men's track throwing under the same was doing so. Obviously, they scored in all but two events, team to a victory in Saturday conditions. I just was throwing didn't, and by this time, every­and in many cases, had more afternoon's quadrangular meet for the victory, and whatever one was five meters ahead of than one competitor finish in at the Monogram Track. the distance was, I would have me."" the top four in his event. 
The Irish scored 71 points to to be satisfied." Pole vaulter Greg Matteo "Overall, it was a pretty good overcome stiff competition from A large crowd turned out to qualified for the IC4A champi­team effort," senior captain Drake (50), Western Michigan watch junior Raghib Ismail's onships by clearing 15-4 to win Tony Smith said. "We had bal­
(46) and St. John's (40) and debut in the 100-meter dash, a spirited, yet friendly, competi­anced scoring throughout all from the constant 20-mph wind and the Rocket didn't disap­tion with Drake's Tim Davis. the events, and that's impor­
Ryan Mihalko 

blowing throughout the meet. point. He won in an NCAA pro­"It's really fun because tant. Everyone did a really good 
One performer who was not visional qualifying time of bang, but today it was like a there's not that many pole job." hampered by the wind was 10.34 seconds. Ismail-over­pop. I reacted well, but other vaulters around, so we jump a But the outstanding individ­Ryan Mihalko. Coming straight coming a malfunctioning people didn't get as good a lot of meets together and get to ual performance of the day was from football practice, the se­starter's gun-got off to a fast jump." know each other really well," given by a Western Michigan nior barely had time to take off start and was never challenged, Freshman Willie Clark was Matteo said. athlete. Freshman high jumper his pads before his turn in the winning by two meters. one such sprinter. His start was Other Irish individual winners Vincent Bennett set a new track javelin. But Mihalko overcame "The 100 is definitely my best affected severely-he almost were senior Mike O'Connor in record by clearing 7-2 1/2 on fatigue and lack of preparation event," Ismail said. "But it stopped dead on the track-and the 1500 (3:52.37), freshman his third jump, breaking the time, unleashing a throw of would have been a different he never fully recovered, Lake Dawson in the high hur­nine-year old mark of 7-2 1/4 215-5 on his first try to win the race (without the malfunction). finishing third behind Ismail dles (14.82) and senior Pat event. You react to the first sound you and the Redmen's Ricardo Kearns in the 5000 (14:49.57). 

"I didn't have a real chance hear, and usually it's a loud Thompson in a time of 10.64. 
Reds and White Sox among teams to watch when baseball season opens 
While Monday, April 8;-------­may simply slide off the 
calendars of people across the world, a sig­nificant portion of the human race now begins to absorb itself in a certain pastime: pro­fessional baseball. 
Across the United 

States and Canada, fans DAVE DIETEMAN wonder on this Opening Sports Editor
Day, one more in a long_________ 
seemingly eternal string of such days, where their favorite teams will finish. 
Who will be the champions in October? 
Few people, if any, picked the Cincinnati Reds to defeat, let alone sweep, the Oakland Athletics in the fall classic. Few people even picked the Reds and rookie manager Lou Piniella to win the National League West. 
Thus mindful of errors and the futility of prognostication, here is how major league baseball's divisional and league races will turn out. 
•American League East. Traditionally the strongest division in the majors, this division has seen hard times of late, earning the title "American League Least." The Boston Red Sox, a perennial bridesmaid, will repeat as champions of the East. Stop laughing. Although the Bosox have lost pitching workhorse Mike Boddicker, the addition of ex-National League ERA leader Danny Darwin should plug the hole nicely. Slugger Jack Clark and pitcher Matt Young should provide needed help as well. In general, the Sox have what it takes: a good rotation, able relievers, good bench players and a potent offense. At any rate, nobody else in the division has the horses to beat them. 

The Sox will be narrowly followed by the plastic fantastics of the East-the Toronto Blue Jays. The Toronto SkyDome, site of this year's All-Star game, will be witness to a crop of promising All-Stars in the Jays' everyday lineup, with the addition of Roberto Alomar and John Olerud's bat as a regular fixture. 
Baltimore, New York, Cleveland and Detroit will finish (in that order) behind the Bosox and Jays. · 
•American League West. Sox win, Sox win! Comiskey Park II will quickly become the home of champions as the Chicago White Sox will dethrone Oakland. The main reason for the Chisox revival, aside from the southsiders' 
see BALL I page 22 Notre Dame won both the see TRACK I page 19 

Irish laxmen play a complete game to defeat Denison; Sullivan ties NO record for most points 
By DAVE McMAHON "We felt like we gave them a 
Associate Sports Editor couple of goals in the first half," Corrigan. "We could have really taken control if we
The Notre Dame lacrosse hadn't let a few of those get
team put together its effort of past."
the season Saturday at 
The Irish, encountering third­
Granville, Ohio, beating 
quarter problems on many oc­Division III power Denison casions throughout the season,College 15-11. 
responded favorably at crunch
Junior attackman Mike 
time, as the defense shutoutSullivan dished out three goals Denison in the period. 
and six assists -(nine points), "The third period was a keytying the Irish record for points for us," said Irish senior Eamon in a game. 
McAnaney. "We put the game
"It was the best offensive 
in our control and stayed focusperformance I've seen out of even when were ahead."
this team all year," said Irish While the Irish offense played coach Kevin Corrigan. 
well, Corrigan hopes for a bet­Notre Dame, with Pat Finn 
ter defensive performance
starting his first game in goal, Saturday when seventh-rankedbegan with a fury, taking a 5-0 Cornell invades Moose Krauselead after one quarter. Denison 
Stadium.

rallied in the second quarter, outscoring the Irish 6-3 and "We're not pleased that we cutting the Notre Dame (4-4) halftime lead to 8-6. see LAX 1page 17 



