
VOL. XXIII NO. 75 
MONDAY JANUARY 21 1991 
I 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Iraq fires 10 Scud missiles at Saudi Arabia 
HIYAI>II. Saudi Arabia {AP)­Iraq firod I 0 Scud missiles into Saudi Arabia in two separate volleys late Sunday and early Monday, hut Patriot rockets destroyed all but one, U.S. ofl'idals said. They said the I Oth landPd harmlessly in wa­tPr. 
At lnast one missile hit Hiyadh. the Saudi capital, dam­aging a building in a residential neighborhood. It was unclear whether it was a Scud that evadPd the Patriot defenses or a Patriot that went awry. 
"I don't have any informa­tion" about a Patriot misfire, Air Force Lt. Col. Mike Gal­lagher said at a briefing here. 
Four Scud rockets were fired at Hiyadh in an intense barrage just before 1 a.m. Monday, and bright flashes could be seen in the clouds, where Patriot mis­siles wen~ apparently intercept­ing the Scuds. Explosions rocknd the city, which is 270 milns from southern Iraq. 
All four were shot down by Patriots, Gallagher said. 
TURKEY 
U.S.S.R. 
IRAN
SYRIA 
Missiles IRAQ 
launched from southern Iraq 
SAUDI . ARABIA r r-Persmn Gulf 
KUWAIT .-BAHRAIN
I Sounded alert 
..,tt!l.!t!.l•' 
IRiyadh IO -aATAR 
Sounded alert 
UAE. ~I OMAN 
Patriot ground-to-air missiles 
200 miles 
launched
!!!!11­200 km. Arabian Sea 
AP 
About three hours earlier, three Scud missiles were fired from southern Iraq, but they were destroyed by five Patriot rockets fired from the allied military base in Dhahran, 225 miles northeast of Riyadh, U.S. 

ND professor's son told to leave Morocco 
By COLLEEN GANNON Business Editor 
Dun to deteriorating condi­tions and possiblo tllrrorist activity. ttw State Department dPclarPd an ordered dnpartun• status for governm1•nt tHnployees from Mauritania and Morocco on Jan. 11. 
Among those forced to rl'turn to tho U.S. was David 
M. I.PI'ge, dimctor of the self· hnlp dovolopment program at the U.S. Embassy in Nouakchott, Mauritania. His fatlwr, David C. Leege, is a Notrn Dame professor and the dirPCtor of the Hesburgh Program in Public Policy. 
At thn time of the ordered departure status, I.eege had been travelling in Morocco. 
"There has been no precise threat. hut it is more the dan­gnr of ttw possibility of terror­ism given the presence of Baathists," Leege said. While the Baathists, followers of Saddam Hussein's political movenwnt, aro not a majority in Mauritania, he called them a very voeal minority. 
Mauritania is a country in Northwest Afriea and is 100 percent Muslim. Leege de­scribed it as being on the edge of the Arab world. Half its population is Black African and half is Arab and Berber. 
Leogo said a lot of people were worried about the impression the ordered departure would leave the Moroccans. "It could be taken as an insult given that a very large, majority of Moroccans aro anti-Saddam and supportive of U.S. policy," he said. 
While Morocco has sent troops to Saudi Arabia, Mauritanian volunteer troops have gone to Iraq. Leege said he heard Saddam's wife, kids, and high cabinet members have taken refuge in Mauritania. 
"In Mauritania. the govern­ment officially condemns the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, but also condemns the U.S. deployment of troops," Leege said. 
While the government ap· pears to take an ambiguous position. he said that privately many Mauritanian government officials are gleeful about Iraqi actions and are very anti-American. "They like to see someone challenging the U.S.," he said. 
Saddam's great appeal to many of the Arab people may be attributed to the deteriorating economic situation in the area, Leege said. 
According to Leege, a demo­graphic explosion in the 1950s and 60s has resulted in many young people now being unemployed, without many future prospects. "The situation has been bad enough for long enough that people got very disillusioned, discouraged, and look for scapegoats," he said. 
This. along with the closed political system that is in place throughout the Arab world, has led the people to question why things are so bad. "When all the channels for change are blocked, it is easy to accept the simple answers Saddam provides," Leege said. 
"The people can become very anti-Western if they see that Western interests are creating problems for them, as seems to be the case in their eyes," he said. 
Although Leege said he did not feel any anti-U.S. sentiment in Morocco, he said 
see MOROCCO/ page 4 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
• 
King's widow reacts/page 8 

• 
New view of women/page 8 

• 
Iraq captures POWs/page 9 

• 
Israel gets U.S. help/page 9 

• 
War's home front/page 9 


officials said. 
Later, at about the same time as the Riyadh attack, three Scud missiles were fired at or near Dhahran, Gallagher said. He said two were hit by Patriots and one fell harmlessly into the Persian Gulf. 
It was the heaviest barrage of Scuds fired at Saudi Arabia since the war began Thursday and, along with the missile fir­ings at Israel on Friday and Saturday, demonstrated Iraq's ability to keep some of its of­fensive capability in tact in the face of massive air attacks by 
U.S. and allied forces. 
In a radio address to his people earlier Sunday, Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein had de­dared that his nation would be fighting back with "all the means and potential God has given us." 
The U.S. command has said its planes have been tracking down mobile Scud launchers and knocking them out one by one. But French military offi­cials have suggested as many as 30 survive. 
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, overall U.S. commander, was asked Sunday how much of a threat remained from the Scuds. 
"That's very much open to question," he said " ... There's never a 100 percent guarantee that one of them isn't going to somehow get through and hit someplaec whllre they do more damage than thny've donn to date." 
Both rocket attacks occurred at night and set off air raid sirens that forced pnopln in two of Saudi Arabia's largest cities to scramble for shelters and put on gas masks and, in some cases, chemical protection suits. 
There was no indication that either volley of Scuds contained chemical weapons, but Saddam hils repeatedly vowed to fire them at his enemins. 
"At approximately 12:54 a.m. local time, as many as six Scuds were launched toward Riyadh," the central command said in the brief statement. 
AP correspondent Hichard Pyle said he heard at least a dozen explosions within 90 sec­onds. One particularly powerful explosion was felt at the Hyatt Regency Hotnl in Hiyadh, across the street from the Saudi 
see IRAQ/ page 4 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

A Notre. D~me freshma~ lights a candle for world peace at the Grotto Friday. President Bush ordered the beg1nn1ng of Operat1on Desert Storm against Iraq Wednesday. 
Local peace groups speak out at forum 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
South Bend peace groups continued to voice their opposi­tion to U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf war at a forum Saturday. 
The forum, planned in con· junction with the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, featured local clergy and peace activists speaking out in an effort to show their commitment to King's message of non-violence. The forum was sponsored by the Michiana Coalition for Jus­tice and Peace and Pax Christi of Notre Dame. 
"Dr. King was brave without bullets and gallant without guns,"said Rev. Gilbert Wash­ington, chaplain at St. Joseph's Medical Center, to an audience of approximately 70 people gathered at the Hansel Neigh­borhood Service Center in South Bend. "In 1964 he (King) was telling people unless we deal with issues present there will be no peace and he leaves that legacy to us," Washington said. 
Father Patrick Gaffney, NO associate professor of anthro­pology and a Middle Eastern expert, spoke on the social po­litical history of the Middle East. According to Gaffney, the Arabs have been " ... constantly victim of foreign oppression." Gaffney said, "I think Saddam Hussein showed himself ready to negotiate. The big lie is that Sad dam refused to negotiate." 
Other speakers voiced outrage against U.S. involve· ment. "I am not sure peace is what this administration wants," said Dr. Candace Cor.­son, a local peace activist and family physician. Corson added, "Peace is patriotic, war is idiocy." 
Corson also stressed that racist and sexist tensions were inherent in the war effort. "We need to stop categorizing each other, saying, 'That's an Arab, that's a Muslim.'" 
According to Corson. Ameri­can women in the service have been forced to adjust to the sexist culture of the Middle East. "Our women are fighting in a country that is blatantly sexist and our government is asking them to abide by their culture," said Corson. "If we sent black American soldiers to fight in South Africa and out government told them to abide by South African policies, there would be outrage." 
Anti-Arab sentimnnt in the 
U.S. was discussed by Kahlil Azar from the Miehiana Arab American League. Azar ex­pressed a wish that Arab civil­ians could be treated with re­spect. 
The Michiana Coalition for Peace and Justice, formed in early August, has put together various anti-war demonstra­tions in South Bend .. Their latest project is to forma Military Families Support Network for families with overseas service members. 
Rev. Washington summed up the coalition's efforl'i: "It makes a difference and that's why we are here." 

r-------------------------------------. 
Monday, January 21, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN Troops need their country's support "This will not be another Vietnam," promised our Presi­dent following the U.S. attack on Iraq. It's difficult, however, to believe George Bush's words in light of the similarities Kelley Tuthill between the Vietnam War and the war in News Editorthe Gulf. Like Vietnam, the citizens of America have been divided in their support of war. Like Vietnam, many lives may be lost in battle. Like Vietnam, many young men may be drafted to serve in a war they don't believe in. Like Vietnam, thousands of citizens are exercising their right to demonstrate for or against the war. Like Vietnam, we may once again send out the wrong message to our soldiers fighting in the Gulf. Everyone would like to see a quick end to the war in the Gulf with minimal loss of lives. However, several violent protests over the weekend sent out a confusing message-isn't a violent demonstration for peace a contradiction? Support for our troops has been overshadowed by the images of political combat being fought on the streets of America. It appears that the lesson of Vietnam has been forgotten: the soldiers did not start this war, they are merely doing their jobs. Dissatisfaction about U.S. involvement in the Gulf should be directed at President Bush or the Congress, not our soldiers. This weekend, amidst all the footage of demonstrations across the country, there was one image from the National Hockey League's All-Star game that will remain with me for a long time. After a moment of silence for the troops, 18,472 fans stood cheering while the National Anthem was played. People waved American flags and displayed signs like: "We Support Our All­Stars in the Gulf." Hopefully, this message and others like it will ring loud and clear to our troops. As college students, we too, can send messages of support to troops in the Gulf. There are already signs hanging out of dorm room windows and yellow ribbons scattered around the campus. One reader suggested we send Valentine Cards to the troops. The address is the fol­lowing: Any service member, Operation Desert Storm, APO New York 09848-0006 (for land-based units) or 09866-0006 (for Naval units or Marines serving on ships.) Postage is the same as for a card in the States. As the media continues to focus on activ­ity on college campuses, hopefully Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can distinguish themselves as schools where support for the troops in all demonstrations concerning the war in the Middle East. We can and must do our part to ensure that this war is not another Vietnam. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: News Production Graphics Paul Pearson Michelle Wood Jake Frost Siobhan McCarthy Jacquie Calhoun Michael Muldoon Rene Ferran Systems Business Accent Amalia Meier Colleen Gannon Lisa Eaton Fritz Valsaint Shonda Wilson Photography Gerrie Hamilton Ad Design Garr Schwartz Joy Harris Sports Tony Paganelli Circulation Rich Kurz Anita Covelli Bill O'Roukrke Lisa Gunsorek Matt Novak Viewpoint Jay Colucci Dave Certo The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  







WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 21. 50 Lines show high temperatures. 304040 3020 10 0 
0 
Yesterday's high: 37 Yesterday's low: 34 

Nation's high: 80 (Ft. Lauderdale Beac;h and Naples, Fla.) Nation's low: -23 (West Yellowstone, Mont.)
60 

Forecast: There will be heavy snow today in the early afternoon, with an accumulation of 6-12 inches by evening. Cold temperatures remaining in the teens with northwest winds at 1 0-15 FRONTS: mph. The snow will diminish into light snow showers tonight, with COLD WARM STATIONARY lows from zero to 5-below
©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
zero.

Pressure 
®© 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

The possibility of a,draft and related issues 'or Anyone interested in writing for The Observer this military service and the role of conscientious objectors spring should come to a meeting Tuesday night at 9 p.m. will be the subject of the First Teach-in night sponsored at The Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If you cannot by the Gulf Crisis Action Group tonight from 8 -9:30 in attend the meeting, please call Kelley, Monica or the Library Auditorium. Featured speakers will be David Florentine at 239-5303. Cortright, Margaret Garvey, and Father Warner. 
WORLD 

Chancellor Helmut Kohl's governing Christian Special police units fanned out across the Zagreb, Democratic Party lost parliamentary seats to the opposi­the capital of Croatia, Sunday to prevent a possible move tion Sunday in the first German state elections this year, by the Yugoslav army against the independence-minded unofficial returns indicated. The Social Democrats appar­republic. Slovenia also readied its forces. Defense and po­ently gained strength and the Greens maintained their lice ministers from Croatia and Slovenia met urgently in representation, making it likely a change would be coming Zagreb on Sunday to discuss "forms of cooperation and in the Hesse state government. Political observers concrete actions of the organs of both republics," the watched the elections as a possible indicator of public nightly Zagreb TV news program reported. It was their sentiment since German reunification last month. The second meeting in three days. They fear that the central Social Democrats hope voters in five state elections this government will crack down while the world is preoccu­year will turn against Kohl's coalition parties as the cost pied with war in the Persian Gulf. 
of quick unification becomes clearer. 
NATIONAL 

Singer Paul Simon is making a 
Two pairs of California condors have laid eggs in donation to Arizona's effort to get a captivity, raising hopes that the four rare birds might be paid state holiday honoring Martin freed later this year, wildlife officials said. Keepers dis­Luther King Jr. On Sunday, Arizona covered the two eggs while monitoring the condor mates celebrated a unpaid holiday honoring in Los Angeles Zoo and the San Diego Wild Animal Park the slain civil rights leader. Simon had via closed circuit cameras. The eggs, laid hours apart said he would donate at least $15,000 Saturday, were quickly removed from the nests. There are in proceeds from his concert there to just 40 California condors known to exist and all are in the effort to get a paid holiday in captivity -21 at the San Diego park and 19 at the Los Ariana. In November, Arizona voters rejected two mea­Angeles Zoo. The eggs are the first clutch of 1991. If the sures that would have created the paid holiday. Since. pairs do well at producing eggs, "there's a good chance" then, Arizona has felt some backlash, including the can­they will be released into the wild, said the park's cellation of some conventions and a proposal by the Na­spokesman, Tom Hanscom. tional Football League to move the 1993 Super Bowl from Tempe. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
An Evansville man is offering to do farm 

On January 21: 
chores for families of U.S. soldiers. Thomas Pitts ran a classified ad in Evansville newspapers of­
etn 1905: In Russia, 140,000
fering to help families with relatives serving in 
workers and peasants begin march to
the Persian Gulf with any farm chores that may 
czar's Winter Palace in St. Petersburg.
be going unfinished. Pitts said he was moved to volunteer while watching the televised goodbyes of a man and his son who were mobilized for re­
eln 1943: A Nazi daylight air raid 
serve duty. Both were farmers. Helping a ser­
kills 34 in a London school.
NYSE Index 

viceman's family, he said, "might put him at ease 
180.87 -{t 1.89
about his home situation. It might keep his mind 
S&P Composite A.

on what he's doing." 
etn 1951: Communist troops, in a332.23 l.T 4.26 
12-hour attack, force U.N. troops out
Dow Jones Industrials 
of Inchon, Korea. 

2,646.78 'id' 23.27 
eln 1968: Mike Kasperak, the first
Precious Metals 

U.S. heart transplant recipient, diesGold 1t $0.90 to $375.10/oz. 
after 15 days. Silver .. 3.3¢ to $4.01 0/oz. 
etn 1977: President Carter urges 65 degrees as the maximum heat in homes to ease the energy crisis. 
..~------~------------~~--------------------~-----------------------,-------------~ 
Monday,Janua~_2_1~,_19~9~1~--------------------------------~T~he~O~b~s~e~N~e~r------------------------------------------------~p~a~g~e~3 
Anti-abortion referendum defeated in Corpus Christi 
COHPUS CIIHISTI, Texas (AP) -The resounding defeat of a charter amendment declaring that "human life begins at con­ception" shows that Americans don't want City IIall interfering with personal beliefs, oppo­nents said Sunday. 
The "Human Family Amend­mnnt" had weighty support among abortion opponents, in­cluding Homan Catholic Bishop Hene Gracida, in this heavily Hispanic city whostl name is Latin for "body of Christ." 
But 62 percent of the 30,007 residents who cast votes in Saturday's referendum opposed the measurn. About 24 percent of the dty's registered voters cast ballots. 
"I think it's a very strong message to these people that they've got to stop trying to cram their religious beliefs down our throats via govern­ment." said Nan Pillinger, president of thH city's League of Women Votnrs. 
"No mw wants City Hall to be telling us what we believe," m~homl Helen Wilk. treasurnr of Citizens UnitHd for Charter In­tegrity. 
"Wn felt that this was a statement of personal belief basml on religious interpreta­tion, and while anyone has the right to hold that belief. it has no place in a document that governs the citizens of the community," Mrs. Wilk said. 
Thn proposed amendment to the dty chartPr would have had no force of law. But opponents worried it would be used to promotP city ordinancns regu­lating abortion. 
Drawing on language from the Declaration of Indepen­dence, the initiative spelled out rights that apply to "all mem­bers of the human family, re­gardless of age, development. physical or mental condition, race, or national origin." 
It concluded that "human life begins at conception and con­tinues until natural death." 
The referendum was placed on the ballot through a petition drive last summer organized by Tracy Cassidy, a 30-year-old lawyer and chairwoman of the Human Family Committee. 
Mrs. Cassidy has said the amendment was meant to merely be a statement of prin­ciple. She didn't return calls to her offices Sunday. 
The bishop was among the first to sign the petition last summer, and urged parish­ioners to support it. In less than two weeks, the petition obtained more than the re­quired 6,500 signatures. 
Gracida has excommunicated two abortion clinic employees and a doctor who performs abortions in this Gulf Coast city of nearly 300,000. 
Some abortion rights activists have said all who voted against the measure don't necessarily favor a woman's right to abortion. 
"But I think it also speaks to the concern that difficult deci­sions about when life begins and ends be left to individuals, not governing bodies," said Amanda Stukenbnrg. president of South Texans For Choice, an abortion rights group. "That is the pro-choice belief." 




CLUB COLUMN 
JANUARY 21, 1990 
Notre Dame Toastmasters, the communications skills club, meets this and eve~ Wednesday evening at 7:30 in 222 Hayes-Healy. Questions?? Call John x1376 or Scott x2447. 
Entries for the club column are due at 6:00 p.m. on Thursdays in the Club Room, 207 LaFortune. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 


Caselling receives MERIT prize 
Special to the Observer 
Francis Caselling, dean of the College of Science and Klei­derer-Pezold professor of bio­chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's MERIT award for "research competence, pro­ductivity, and scientific contri­butions (that) are recognizably outstanding." 
The award was established by the Institute, one of the Na­tional Institutes of Health, to provide extended grant support to investigators whose out­standing bodies of research indicate that they "are likely to continue to perform in a supe­rior manner." MERIT is an acronym for "method to extend research in time." 
A noted blood chemistry re-
Desert Storm support 

Frank Castellino 
searcher, Castellino for twenty years has investigated how the human body forms and dis­solves blood clots. Among a number of important finds, he established the mechanisms of plasminogen activation, a key function in the body's formation of the enzyme that dissolves clots. Along with its scientific importance, his research bears 
>'
r: 
; (
!
I I 
\ \
: r 
\ J
I ! ' 
.. ·~. 

A sign urging support for U.S.troops in Saudi Arabia hangs outside of Cavanaugh Hall Friday. The sign reads, "United we stand/Divided we fall/Support our troops/No one wants peace more than a soldier." 
Indiana police raid Shenanigans Pub 
Eighteen minors were cited By MEGAN JUNIUS for underage drinking, News Writer although no arrests took place 
The Indiana State Excise Po­lice led twenty-one officers in a raid at Shenanigans Pub early Sunday morning. 
D~========================~~==~======~ 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25, 1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
for minor consumption of alco­hol. However, one person was arrested for disorderly conduct. Many false identifications were taken by the police. The State directly on the treatment of illnesses from heart disease and strokes to hemophilia. 
"Dean Castellino's ability to carry on research of the high­est caliber while energetically leading the College of Science is a remarkable achievement," said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. "He is a deserving re­cipient of this award and a noteworthy example to his col­leagues." 
In addition to his grants from the National Institutes of Health, Castellino has received substantial research funding from the American Heart Asso­ciation. Among his numerous professional memberships, he is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the New York Academy of Sciences. 
. ~~14,-.~t_-.,, ,, 
........ ~;:~~.......·----­
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Excise Police also cited the manager of Shenanigans for having minors in the tavern. 
Members of the S.U.D.S. Task Force raiding the bar were of­ficers from five different police agencies. 
Oon't get 1\Tl'Cked. Ifvou'rc not soher-or vou're not sure­

tjj:

let someone else do the driling . ~.·
l!t:t:R DRINKEKS 
c~· AMEKKJ\ 
I' \HI\ • ''I\ N I 


FREE 
TANNING 
Council Travel offers domeslie· student air fares in selected markets! Call for more info. and a FREE Travel Catalog! 
~ 
Bln1IAYStMDDNiS MOMS HOME COQKN; 
o~==~-=====~~~==~==================~ 

The Observer Monday, January 21, 1991 
Johnson named to professorship 
Special to the Observer his long tenure at the Univer­atomic and nuclear physics. 
sity he has served a visiting During his Notre Dame ca­
Walter Johnson, a member of professor or guest scientist at reer, Johnson directed the dis­
the Notre Dame faculty since Harvard College Observatory; sertations of 14 doctoral stu­
1958, was named the Frank M. the Paris Observatory in dents. 
Freimann professor of physics, Meudon, France; Argonne Na­The Frank M. Freimann 
according to Timothy O'Meara. tional Laboratory; and the Uni­Chair in physics is 
"His is an exceptional ap­versity of Frankfurt in Frank­underwritten by the Freimann 
pointment to a distinguished furt, Germany. Charitable Trust of Fort Wayne, 
chair," O'Meara said. He is a fellow of the American Ind., and honors the late 
Johnson, who received his Physical Society and served as president of the Magnavox Co., 
undergraduate and graduate chairman in 1988 of the orga­Frank Freimann. Freimann 
education at the University of nization's division of atomic, was chief executive officer of 
Michigan, is a theorist studying molecular and optical physics. Magnovox for 18 years until his 
weak interaction in atomic From 1982 to 1985 Johnson death in 1968. He served on 
physics. He and his Notre served as chairman of the Notre Dame's Advisory Council 
Dame co-investigator, Jon Notre Dame Department of for Science and Engineering 
Sapirstein, associate professor Physics. and a donated a prominent 
of physics, lead the only group Since 1985, he has been the sum of $500,000 as one among 
of scientists studying this principal investigator in Na­many of his gifts to the 
matter in the United States. He tional Science Foundation-sup­University. The funds were 
is also one of only four people ported theoretical studies of utilized in construction of the 
in the world engaging in theory weak interaction in atomic Hesburgh Library. 
in this area of physics. physics. From 1971 to 1985, he In addition the the Freimann 
Johnson began his career at was the principal investigator chair in physics, there are four 
the University of Michigan as in NSF-supported theoretical other Freimann chairs at the 
an instructor for a year before studies of quantum electrody­University, all in the College of 
coming to Notre Dame. During namics related to processes in Engineering. 
ple of how the Palestinians our relations throughout the have been taken advantage of Arab world," he said. "We
Morocco 
by many different Arab could win this thing militarily, continued from page1 countries that seize them at the but what does that mean politi­moment they need them and cally, diplomatically?" he said it was definitely present in let them go when they are no asked. 
longer needed," he said. "That has some very seriousMauritania. 
Leege spoke about the In reference to the Israeli oc­far-reaching consequences that Baathist argument regarding cupation, Leege said, "It should many people have not consid­linkage. This puts the Israeli not be linked to the problem of ered," he said. 
occupation of the occupied ter­Kuwait, which is basically Sad­Mauritania's pro-Saddam ritories on the same plane as dam's own bid to gain more leanings do not necessarily the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait. economic and political power." color Leege's humanitarian "It is easy to forget that the However, Leege said both sit­feelings. While we should not 
circumstances were very differ­uations must be resolved. "I necessarily be helping out mili­
ent," Leege said. He said Israel think U.S. policy could be more tary governments which are was attacked and acted defen­supportive of a Palestinian set­oppressing their people, he sively, but Iraq was the aggres­tlement and that may be one of said, small development pro­
sor in regards to Kuwait. the outcomes of the whole jects that dig wells or build 
"The whole idea of Saddam thing," he said. schools are basic human needs. standing up for the Palestinians "If that is not one of the out­Eventually, Leege said he is pretty ridiculous," Leege comes, I think we are in for se­hopes to return to Mauritania said. "It is just one more exam-rious problems in regards to and continue his work. 
page 4 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Defense Ministry. 

The missile that struck Riyadh landed in a vacant lot and left a crater about five feet deep and 15 feet across. An ad­jacent building was damaged, and there was debris scattered around the area. 
In the earlier Dhahran attack. neither Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams nor Saudi officials in Dhahran could identify the intended target of the Iraqi missiles. "It's hard to crater in a road, knocked a lightpost and destroye shrubbery in a road median. 

There were rumors o several people suffering injuries from falling debris but none could be confirmed. Calls to several local hospitals turned up no rep'orts of injuries related to the missile intercepts. 
Williams, who noted that a Patriot also shot down an in­coming Iraqi missile Friday, said the incidents show "the Patriot is a very effecti-ve sys­tem ... and the U.S. crews man­ning the systems are doing a 
---~---------------~---­
Monday, January 21, 1991 
McDermott lectures at SMC focusing on sexual abuse 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR their secrets aloud. Assistant Saint Mary's Editor McDermott gave two formal definitions of child abuse. The 
Child sexual abuse is a legal one states that a person prevalent problem, affecting under sixteen years of age can­one out of four girls and one not give consent for the sexual out of five boys. With the aver­act. From the social perspec­
age agn of victims being 8-11 tive, she said, abuse is the use years old. victims are in a of a child for the sexual gratifi­primn position to be threat­cation of the offender. ened. scared. and isolated so that the "secret" is not di­McDermott gets her cases vulged. from agencies or direct calls. 
These and other startling She said, "I go on my gut feel­facts were presented by a local ings (with a client). I'd rather specialist, Melissa McDermott, be wrong than fail to recognize A.C.S.W., who has worked in a problem." McDermott works tlw field for six years. In the with offenders as well as vic­first of two lectures at Saint tims. "Child offenders are not Mary's, McDermott spoke to all dirty old men," according to studnnts about the facts and McDermott. "71% are under 35 signals to identify abused chil­years old." dren. According to McDermott, an 
"Most children will tell non­important point to remember is family members about abuse," that the extent and type of sex­McDermott said. Therefore, ual abuse (physical or non­teachers and day care workers physical) doesn't relate to the must be especially alert to indi­seriousness of the response cators of abuse, she said. needed. "People have the ten­A myth that only physical dency to say one child's case is contact constitutes sexual worse than another's because abuse was dispelled by one experienced more, but the McDermott when she posted a guilt, shame, and fear are 
lengthy rostnr of "Hands-Off' there. The feelings are the offenses. It included verbal in­same." nunndos, propositioning, exhi­McDermott stressed the ne­bitionism. obscene phone calls, cessity of believing children viewing, voyeurism, and when they report abuse. An pornography. especially tough problem arises 
To givn the students a sense when it occurs in the home of the anger, fear, and discom­(60% of molestations) because fort McDermott said that chil­parents can either deny or en­dren feel when they tell some­courage it for various reasons, one that they are a victim, she she said. Melissa McDermott, A.C.S.W., lists forms of sexual harassment and urges that parents and teachers be had everyone write down a se­"Children trust their par­able to recognize child abuse in its early stages. The lecture was held at Saint Mary's College Friday. cret. Then McDermott asked ents," and don't think that they 
the audience how they would would do anything wrong, fnel if she asked them to read McDermott said. 
~~iir:crfillion~arwltc1arng~P1anner~~~ 
Marei Sears ~ 
255·7336 ~ 
General Consultation in the following areas: ~ Wedding etiquette Ceremony ~ Color Scheme Rehearsal f. Attire Reception ~ Flowers Music f. Pictures Showers ~ 
Please call for more information and aooointments. ~ 
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN..+'/ 

lr,'PRESSIONISM TO 
SURREALISM.••; ': 
AND EVERYTHING -, 

BET\VEEN! : ·... 




HOUSES FOR RENT 
:!I:
Today thru Friday, Jan 25th :!I: 1991-1992 SCHOOL YEAR 
:!I:
9am-Spm :!I: :!': :!1: 
Super landlords Inexpensive
:!I· :!I: :!I: :!I:

Notre Dame Room (2~floor), :!': 5 and G bedrooms Security Systems 
:!':

LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER :!': :!': 
:!': 3 houses left Close to campus
:!':
r--------------.--­:~ 
Call Flynn's Rentals
3 .l-ARGI;: ..:I?.RI.N.T-S;.FQR. $15l, !~i 
289-6621 
:~ 
···­
-----~----------~-­
page 6 The Observer Monday, January 21, 1991 
Soviet commandos attack Latvian police, killing four 
RIGA, U.S.S.R. (AP) -Soviet "black beret" commandos at­tacked Latvian police head­quarters Sunday night and oc­cupied parts of the building, Latvian officials said. They re­ported four people killed and nine wounded. 
Gunfire and explosions con­tinued into the night in Latvia's capital of Riga. All Latvian po­lice WP.re ordered to take up arms and defend other govern­ment buildings, Latvian televi­sion reported. 
The attack by troops of the Soviet Interior Ministry began at about 9:06 p.m., as red and white tracer bullets lighted up downtown Riga. An automobile burst into flames next to the 
Ray of light 

Latvian Interior Ministry, which controls the Baltic republic's police and is loyal to the sepa­ratist government. 
The assault came a week after Soviet tanks attacked the main broadcast center in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius, killing 14 people and wounding more than 200. 
The central government in Moscow has been pressuring the Baltic republics of Lithua­nia, Latvia and Estonia to nul­lify separatist declarations passed last year by their demo­cratically elected parliaments. The three, independent states between the world wars, were forcibly annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940. 
In Washington, the White 
House called the Riga develop­ments "deeply troubling." White House spokesman Bill Harlow reiterated the Bush administration's call for a peaceful resolution to the Baltic problem. 
A member of a Latvian docu­mentary film crew, Andres Slapins, was killed and his col­league Gvido Zvaigzne was wounded Sunday night, parlia­mentary spokesman Karlis Freibergs said. 
The parliament's press office said four people in all were killed and nine wounded. 
The Soviet military comman­der for the Baltic military dis­trict, Col. Gen. Fyodor Kuzmin, demanded on Jan. 14 that Lat­vian police turn in their arms. 
AP Photo 

A Tomahawk cruise missile launch lights the night sky and the deck of the USS Wisconsin early Friday morning. The Wisconsin has launched more than 100 Tomahawks against Iraqi positions. 
Black berets, special units of the Soviet Interior Ministry, briefly occupied a Latvian precinct station and raided a police school for arms last week. 
Latvian Interior Minister Aloisz Vanznis later told the separatist parliament the police were authorized to use their weapons to defend government buildings. 
Black berets occupied the first and fifth floors of the Lat­vian Interior Ministry building Sunday night, with Latvian po­lice on the other floors and at positions outside, according to a report from the republic's de­fense committee relayed by parliamentary spokeswomen Aida Spruze and Marika Berz­ina. 
Other black berets were said to be moving around Riga, but no other attacks were reported, parliamentary spokesman Karlis Freibergs said. 
Latvian TV said one of its cameramen was shot in the head, but was reported out of danger. Later it showed a Finnish television reporter, Hannu Vaisanen, who said in a broadcast interview that he was beaten and kicked. 
More than half an hour after the gunfire began, ambulances and fire engines still raced through the streets of Riga. People were seen walking to­ward the battle site, but they ran away when sporadic gun­fire resumed. 
Envoy Terry Waite begins his fifth year in captivity 
LONDON (AP) -Churches across Britain were filled with prayers Sunday for the British hostages in Lebanon, including Church of England envoy Terry Waite who was beginning his fifth year in captivity. 
Archbishop of Canterbury Robert Runcie prayed for his 51-year-old envoy during a ser­vice at Canterbury Cathedral. 
"Remember Terry and all hostages cut off from those whom they love and from the bonds of human friendship. Support them in their loneliness and need," Runcie said. 
Runcie told the British Broadcasting Corp. that the 
Persian Gulf war may increase the hostages' chances for re­lease. 
"Turbulence might make people harder and more protec­tive of any change in attitude. On the other hand, turbulence might loosen things up a bit," he said. 
However, a Shiite Muslim source in Lebanon, familiar with the thinking of the hostage-holding factions, said last week: "You don't expect anyone to give the British or the Americans a reward by re­leasing any of the hostages at a time they are attacking an Arab country." 
G,]R. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI ,....-----This Week Only-------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT ; 


I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
~ ______________~ill!_hai,!;_u~s_ ~ 
!SSOFF ANY~~ ! 
~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts With Student I.D. We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

ANUARY 21, 1991 • SACRED HEART CHURCH 
University Park Mall 277-3770 
Sponsored by Cam us Mtmstry 
Business 

Monday, January 21, 1991 

U.S., Allies pool resources; try to prevent financial turmoil 
NEW YOHK (AP) -The as trade. pected the discussions would United States and its wealthy Before the formal sessions focus on ways to keep the war allies are preparing a united ef­got underway with a dinner from disrupting the global fort to knep the war in the Mid­Sunday night, Treasury Secre­economy. dle East from throwing world tary Nicholas Brady met with "We will be looking at what 
financial markets into turmoil. Japanese Finance Minister the impact of the gulf war could 
Thfl commitment will include Ryutaro Hashimoto to discuss be," he said. "Our concern is a pledge to spend billions from the situation in the Persian mainly on our economies and national treasuries if necessary Gulf. on the expectations in financial to stabilize the dollar against Asked afterwards whether markets." other major currencies. the Japanese had committed to In particular, the leaders are 
boosting their financial support searching for ways to make 
Calming jittery financial mar­for the allied effort, Brady re­sure the recessions facing the kets was just one of the tasks sponded, "They said they would United States, Britain and facing finance ministers and do their share" but he refused Canada do not become severe cnntral bank presidents from to provide any specifics. enough to trigger a global the United States, Japan, Ger­A Japanese official, who downturn. many, Britain, France. Italy and spoke to reporters on condition Canada as they gathered that his name not be used, said But the overriding issue con­Sunday for two days of discus­no specific dollar figures were fronting finance officials will be sions. mentioned in the Brady­the impact of the Persian Gulf 
High on the U.S. agenda was Hashimoto meeting. But the war on the global economy. So 
obtaining. further commitments official did not rule out the far, the news on world financial from Japan and Germany to possibility that the Japanese markets has been good, with shoulder a bigger share of the would announce a new support stock prices rising and the dol­costs of the Persian Gulf war. package for the war effort lar and other currencies re­The failure of those two nations when the finance ministers maining relatively stable. to piek up more of the tab has conclude their discussions However, the concern is what been a major irritant with Monday. m1ght happen if there is a pe­Congress and, unless resolved, Canadian Finance Minister riod when war developments could spill over into areas such Michael Wilson said he ex-are not so favorable. 
Banks refuse Eastern paychecks; soldiers stranded en route to war 
ATLANTA (AP) -Banks and stores refused to immediately cash the paychecks of Eastern Airlines nmployees while some military personnel trying to re­port for duty in the Mideast wnre brinfly stranded after the carrier's shutdown.  Shugrue Jr.. said financially qualified investors or buyers had expressed interest in buy­ing Eastern assets. Bank South Corp. and First Union National Bank said they would l?nly accept pa~roll  Southern banks said they wanted to determine whether payroll checks were covered by Eastern's Chapter 11 protection before they cashed them. "Because of the timing, we don't have all the information  "Eastern told us Delta would take the tickets," Nicolai said. "Well, we told the Delta people we're on active duty and that they should certainly honor our government tickets. They basi­cally told us our tickets are worthless and, 'Tough l_uck."'  travelers in the middle of an Eastern flight to continue, Delta would not accept tickets held by people beginning their trips, Berry said. In Florida, state Labor Secre­tary Frank S~ruggs predicted  
"I have a wife. two kids, a baby on thn way and no money," Eastnrn mechanic Bill Snider  checks from Miami-based East­ern for deposit, placing them on hold to see whether they clear.  we need," said bartk spokesman J. Scott Scredon. "If the trustee is saying the money is there, we will honor the  Unsure whether other airlines would honor the government­purchased tickets and fearing  Sunday that Eastern's shut­down would eventually put 10,000 to 14,000 Florida resi­dents out of work and cost the  
said after a check-cashing store  checks."  further delays, Nicolai used  state  about $40 million  in  
rnfused to pay his $491. 14 payroll chnck. "This is just ridiculous." Thn 62-year-old airline abruptly stopped service at midnight Friday, after almost two years in U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Eastern was more than $3 billion in debt and had been  "There is absolutely no reason why banks should not be cashing checks other than just plain ignorance," said spokeswoman Karen Ceremsak. "There is cash to back every check out there. All existing and current Eastern checks are  Delta Air Lines at Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport on Saturday refused to honor Eastern tickets held by three Navy medical officers en route to Saudi Arabia. Navy. Lt. Cmdr. Lynn Nicolai and two members of her medi­ $900 of her own money to get the group to their next stop. "On top of all the other pres­sures and worries of this war and having to leave my little daughter, I have to face this," the nurse said. Delta spokesman William  worker's compensation. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, anticipating a rush of workers filing for unemployment bene­fits, ordered the opening of two temporary job centers in the Miami area, Scruggs said. About 7,000 of Eastern's  
ravaged by lagging business. After the shutdown. the air­line's court-appointed bankruptcy trustee. Martin  good. We are still under Chap­ter 11." Representatives for Trust Company and Citizens and  cal unit didn't know Eastern had shut down when they ap­proached Eastern gates at Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport Saturday.  Berry said if the Eastern ticket was issued by the military, it should have been accepted. But while Delta was allowing  18,000 employees work in the South Florida area, most of them at the airline's headquarters at Mi.ami International Airport.  
State gas supply remains adequate;  
experts optimistic about future prices  
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) - Indi­ seems fine," Stewart said.  anapolis, said oil markets were  
ana oil watchers said Thursday  Supplies were more than ade­ very anxious before the war be­ 
that the state had plenty of ga­ quate, and consumers were be­ cause of uncertainties about  
soline and they were hopeful  having calmly the day after the  the Iraqis' ability to attack.  
that retail prices would soon  war began, she said.  "If things continue to go as  
follow the plummeting prices  "We would certainly hope  well as they have been, espe­ 
for crude.  that  as  the price of crude  cially if it becomes clear the  
Prices for light sweet crude  plummets, the price of whole­ Iraqis have lost their ability to  
oil dropped $10.56 to $21.44  sale and retail also will plum­ attack Saudi Arabia success­ 
per barrel Thursday on the  met," Stewart said. "An in­ fully, the prognosis is for lower  
New  York  Mercantile  Ex­ crease (in prices) is what most  prices, which would quickly  
change, and there was no sig­ of us expected, but it looks like  translate into lower prices at  
nificant damage reported to oil  what we're going to see is some  the gasoline pump," Pickett  
production facilities in the Per­ decreases."  said.  
sian Gulf.  Most major oil companies had  "Oil is -way down, stocks are  
"We're pleased that there re­ pledged to freeze prices in the  way up. What could be better?"  
ally don't seem to be any dis­ event of war, but some dealers  Pickett said.  
ruptions at this time," said Amy  rose  them anyway.  In  Fort  Rep. Phil Sharp, D-Ind. and  
Stewart, director of the Office  Wayne, for example, prices  chairman of the House sub­ 
of Energy Policy at the Indiana  went up between 5 cents and 8  committee  on  energy  and  
Department of Commerce.  cents a gallon in the 12 hours  power. said the decision by the  
Stewart and Jerry Hauer, di­ after the first bombs fell on  U.S. and other oil-consuming  
rector of the State Emergency  Baghdad.  nations to sell strategic oil  
Management  Agency,  met  Gas retailers did not know  reserves accelerated-crude oil's  
Thursday with representatives  what to expect.  plunge.  The  U.S.  Strategic  
of Indiana's oil marketers,  Neil  Pickett, who follows  Petroleum Reserve contains  
truck stops, service stations  Middle East issues at the Hud­ 600 million barrels of crude in  
and other industry officials.  son Institute, a conservative  underground salt caverns in  
"They told us that everything  policy research center in Indi- Louisiana and Texas.  


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 8 Monday, January 21, 1991 
WEEKEND GULF ROUNDUP 
The U.S. Embassy in the Phillipines Sunday closed li­braries in three cities and warned Americans to be alert for Iraqi-sponsored terrorism following a failed bombing attempt that injured an Iraqi student. The bomb, which exploded prematurely Saturday near a U.S. library in Manila, killed another man who was apparently carrying the device, police said. An Iraqi passport was found at the scene. The U.S. Embassy on Sunday said it appeared the bombing "is an example of the announced Iraqi intention to target U.S. and allied installations and interests." Security sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the injured Iraqi, Abdul-Sattar Hisham, gave police the telephone number of the Iraqi Embassy in Manila. 
President Bush has approved a reserve call-up that could double the number of reservists on active duty and extend their period of service, the Pentagon said Saturday. Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said the approval could increase the number of reservists on active duty from 161,887 at present to a maximum of 360,000. In legal terms, Bush upgraded the authorized level of reserve call-ups from 200,000 for a 180-day period to 1 million for a period up to two years. However, Williams said the military "has no intention of calling up 1 million people for two years." Bush invoked the National Emergencies Act authorizing the reserve call-up last August to support Operation Desert Shield in the Persian Gulf. 
The House on Friday overwhelmingly approved a resolution commending the performance of President Bush and the American troops serving in the Persian Gulf. The symbolic resolution was approved 399 to 6, with six abstentions, a day after the Senate passed the same measure 98-0. Last week, a majority of Democrats in both chambers voted against going to war, preferring to extend the sanctions against Iraq. Republicans who voted overwhelmingly with the president secured passage of the war authorization. "In this resolution we transcend the real differences we have, for the specific purpose of supporting the president and our troops as they engage in battle," said House Minority Leader Bob Michel, R-Ill. 
Ten journalists from Cable News Network, The Associated Press and the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. entered Jordan in a four-car convoy Friday after driving from Baghdad. CNN said the journalists crossed the border at midafternoon New York time and would take several more hours to reach Amman, Jordan's capital. CNN said five of its eight personnel based in Baghdad had left the Iraqi capital with four CBC journalists and one from the AP. Their convoy took Iraq's main highway to the border crossing at Trebil, CNN said. The network identified its personnel as Bernard Shaw, Mark Biello, Ingrid Formanek, John Holliman and Kris Krizmanich. AP reporter Dilip Ganguly and the CBC crew, Eric Rankin, Brian Denike, Hans Vanderzande and Christopher Davies, also traveled to Jordan. 
A Los Angeles woman who has two sons serving in Operation Desert Storm has set up a hot line for Spanish speakers with loved ones in the Persian Gulf. Bertha Sanchez and other volunteers at Support for Latino Military Families talk callers through their fears, provide contacts or help visitors write their relatives and friends deployed in the Middle East. The hot line has just'one telephone. An additional 23 donated by the telephone company await installation. The hot line already has fielded hundreds of calls. The armed forces run support centers for relatives of servicemen. But hot line volunteers said that because of language and cultural barriers, many relatives who speak only Spanish don't use them. 
More Americans watched President Bush's televised speech on the outbreak of war with Iraq than any other event since the funeral of President Kennedy, according to preliminary ratings. More than three-quarters, or 78.8 percent, of the nation's 93.1 million TV households tuned in at 9 p.m. EST Wednesday for Bush's speech, according to overnight ratings in 25 major cities surveyed by the A.C. Nielsen Co. The Bush broadcast might even become the most­watched event in television history, since the full national ratings are expected to exceed the overnight figures, said David Poltrack, CBS vice president for research and planning. "We don't really know how many people were watching," he said. The overnight ratings represent about half the actual audience. 
Americans are having to contend with tighter security at airports, military bases and government buildings amid bomb scares and fears of possible terrorist attacks growing out of the war with Iraq. About 800 employees at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s headquarters in Washington were evacuated today after the agency received three calls at mid­morning threatening that a bomb inside the building would explode in 45 minutes. No explosives were found. "Despite the likelihood that it's a prank, there's no way of being 100 percent certain. We decided to err on the side of caution," said FDIC spokesman Alan Whitney. Alarm bells were activated, sending workers to stairwells so they could get outside. Police responded to a similar bomb scare at the State Department this morning, but it did not require the evacuation of employees. On Thursday, about 5,000 workers at the Environmental Protection Agency, also in Washington, were evacuated due to a bomb scare. 
King's widow calls for peace 
ATLANTA (AP) -On the eve of a federal holiday marking her late husband's birthday, Coretta Scott King called Sun­day for an immediate cease­fire in the Persian Gulf and an end to what she calls a system that puts militarism ahead of education. 
"Our most urgent short-term priority at the international level is a cease-fire in the Per­sian Gulf," said Mrs. King. 
She urged the audience pack­ing Ebenezer Baptist Church, where the slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. had preached, "to become in­volved in working to stop this war." 
Mrs. King also called for putting political pressure on elected representatives and 
"urge them to call for a cease­fire." 
"In 1991 we have to work closer together, to protest and march and speak out more often until preparing for education is a greater priority in every nation than preparing for war," Mrs. King said in the annual "State of the Dream" speech. 
The address is among activi­ties honoring King's birthday. King, whose birthday will be recognized by a federal holiday on Monday, would have been 62 on Jan. 15. 
About 30 Ku Klux Klan mem­bers marched in Blacksgurg, Va., on Sunday to protest the holiday. A handful of Klan members were pelted with eggs and snowbB:lls when they showed up for a similar planned rally at the State Capi­tol in Albany, N.Y. 
During her speeclt, Mrs. King commended the Israeli govern­ment and people "for not retal­iating against Iraq." 
"It takes courage and wisdom to refuse to be sucked into the cycle of retaliation," she said, "and I hope and pray that Israel will be able to continue to exercise restraint." 
She stressed that the opposi­tion was "against the war, not the warriors." 
Those fighting are family, friends and co-workers, "and most of all we want them home." 
Education must be a higher priority as a solution to many of the country's other problems, she said. 

Chalk talk 


An F16 fighter carries a 2,000-pound bomb with a message, "To Baghdad Betty from the Town Tavern" at a Saudi Arabian air base Wednesday. Planes from that base were reported to have bombed Iraq early Thursday morning. The plane is assigned to the 138th Tactical Fi hter Squadron, based in New '(ork_._ 
Women's roles should be reexamined in light of war in Gulf, experts say 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 
News Writer 

Fathers and sons aren't the only ones fighting to defend our country nowadays. 
Increasingly, mothers and daughters are joining the ranks of troops in Saudi Arabia. And though they may not be fighting on the front lines, they are playing a more widespread and important role than ever be­fore. 
The presence of women in the Persian Gulf is a highly controversial issue. According to Kathleen Weigert, professor of an American studies course titled "Women and Men, War and Peace," "It's been typical to see women as more peaceful and men as more warlike. I think that's a stereotype we need to examine more closely." 
Women are less likely to be associated with violence "probably because women have not historically engaged in combat," according to Kate Halischak, special assistant to the executive vice president of gender studies. "I don't think there's any easy answer to that question," Halischak added. 
According to research listed in the book "Social Psychology," males have traditionally been more aggressive than females due to both biological and soci­ological reasons. 
The book lists three biological reasons for traditional male dominance: 
•male dominance is universal across cultures 
•levels of aggression are re­sponsive to sex hormones (i.e., testosterone) 
•sex difference and domi­
nance  is  evident  in  both  
humans  and  animals  (i.e.,  
subhuman primates)  

However, researchers also admitted that "biology is not destiny. Genetically controlled characteris\ics ... may take the form of a greater readiness to learn a particular kind of behavior." 
Many feel that this evidence is not necessarily true. Social scientists support the view that in most societies, the roles of women in situations of war and peace have been taught and re­inforced since childhood. For example, boys are taught to fight in order to solve prob­lems, rather than to be a "wimp." Girls are taught that fighting is not feminine. 
According to an article in The Boston Globe, phrases such as "Don't be a girl, take that pain," abound. Societal atti­tudes create pressure which help to form group opinions leaning toward male domi­nance. This reinforcement, in turn, helps to create personal opinions. 
Weigert hopes to examine the issues of the historical and so­cial roles, as well as the eco­nomic impact which women have had throughout history. "We also need to examine peace more closely. What is peace?" Weigert asked. 
Peace does not necessarily 
mean being a wimp, according to Weigert. She sited several examples of peaceful heros and heroines of the past, such as Jesus Christ, Ghandi, Dorothy Day, Saint Francis, and Jane Addams. 
Though Weigert admits that data shown prior to this inva­sion has proven that women were less likely to support a war in this country, Weigert said that educated people of today should examine the vari­ables of culture and societal forces more closely. 
Fathers tend to say "this is what men have to do," accord­ing to Halischak. Women, how­ever, "know what it takes to bring life into the world. I'm not so eager to sacrifice it." 
Halischak added, "Discrimination against women is deplorable." She does not ad­
-vocate that women head off to defend our nation in order to prove that they are capable of doing so. "Only if they want to," she specified. Concerning the issue of how age affects women's opinions, the general response was that the younger generation was more willing to accept the idea of women in combat. Halischak brought up the fact that many middle aged women have chil­dren and don't wish for them to lose their lives. Weigert added that there are more opportuni­ties and support groups for in­dependent women now than during World War II. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Monday, January 21, 1991 page 9 
Iraq broadcasts interviews with allied POWs 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) -Iraq The interviews with the cap­broadcast, and CNN broadcast as Capt. Maurizio Cocciolone. broadcast interviews Sunday tives -three Americans, two audio excerpts. Italy said Cocciolone is missing. with seven captured allied air­Britons, an Italian and a The three Americans, all of Britain has said Flight Lt. men. some of whom stiffly Kuwait -were broadcast on whom are listed as missing in Adrian John Nichol and his pi­mouthed regrets about their Baghdad television. The POWs action, identified themselves as lot, Lt. John Gyart Peters are rolo in the Porsian Gulf war. spoke haltingly as they deliv­Navy Lt. Jeffrey Zaun, 28; Ma­missing. One of the POWs held 
In another broadcast. Presi­ered statements denouncing rine Corps Chief Warrant Offi­by Iraq identified himself as dent Saddam Hussein delivered the allied assault on Iraq. It cer Guy Hunter. 46; and Marine Adrian John Nichol, and the a fiery, five-minute radio ad­was not known if they were Lt. Col. Clifford Acree, 39. The other gave his name only as Lt. dress to his people in which he reading or under duress, but U.S. military has said Zaun is Peters. Peters' statement was insisted he was holding back they often paused and used from Cherry Hill, N.J., Acree is largely inaudible. most of his military might. lie phrases echoing statements .·.-!-· from Oceanside, Calif., and said Iraqi soldiers "are fighting often made by Iraq. Hunter from Camp Pendleton. The Iraqi News Agency with heroism and courage Calif. All three are listed as identified the Kuwaiti as Lt. which is unprecedented in the The interviews could not be News Network and Iranian missing. Col. Mohammed Mubarek history of war." seen in Cyprus. However, Cable television monitored the TV The Italian identified himself Sultan Mubarak, a pilot. 
Israel cautious about U.S. help 


without wisdom ... without Source:Jane'sWeapon AP/Karl Tate reporters on arrival, and Systems, 1987-88
assessing th1! drl'.umstances." spokesmen for Shamir and The prime minister said the Arens gave only sketchy ac­
AP Photo

clangor of missile attacks had "People went to work and counts of the meetings. Arens' Watching the attack not nnded, but urged Israelis to produced and stood steadfast spokesman Dan Naveh said the 
Crewmen aboard the American battleship USS Wisconsin watchtry to resumn normal life as the and perhaps thanks to that minister made clear Israel re­as cruise missiles are launched towards Iraqi targets Thursday. 
British did during Nazi bombing they won." he said. "We have tained its right to respond in its 

JEIWSALEM (APl -U.S. Army crews had two Patriot missiln batteries ready to fire at incoming Iraqi missiles Sunday, but an Israeli army official said they weren't a "magical solution" that will ensure Is­rani's safety. 
Israeli officials also insisted thn anti-missile missiles woulcln 't necnssarily keep Israel from retaliating against Iraq, 

length: 209 in. 

which has sent missiles into the 
Body diameter: 

Tnl Aviv arna twice since the 
16 in.
Persian Gulf war bngan. 
Payload: high

"They cannot replace under 
explosive

any circumstances the sacred 
Propulsion:

right of Isnwl to self-defense," 
Solid fuel 

said Yossi Olrnert. director of the Govnrnmnnt Press Office. 
In his first statement since the missiln attacks began, Prime Ministnr Yitzhak Shamir told national tnlfJVision that Israel 
6-ft. man

maintained its historic right to 
-j
to scale
dPI'nnd itsnlf. 
U.S. Iraqi

But he addnd: "It doesn't 
Patriot Scud-S

nwan that we have to do it 
raids in World War II. no other way, also, for us." own defense. 41'"t ..
l 
·-. ,

' Prayers fill churches on first Sunday of Gulf War 
/, 
., 
(AP)-At church, people outrage that the United States prayed for peace and sang sent hundreds of thousands of 
rousing songs of patriotism on servicemen and women to fight 
..... ,.

''':/ the first Sunday of the Persian in the Middle East. ! Gulf war. At a football stadium 
they waved American flags, "Some of us have come out in 
r 
and outside the United Nations favor. Some have come out op­they promised support to posed. That is all trivial," Fa­Israel. ther Jerry Wertz told an unusually crowded 8 a.m. Mass Clergy around the country of­at St. Bartholomew's Catholic fered solace and tried to help Church in Long Beach, Calif. make sense of the fighting that "Through our prayers and ac­many hoped would be brief but tions we keep this body to­
now fear could drag on and on. gether." The Bush administration 
urged the National Football In a CNN-Gallup poll taken League to hold its playoff Thursday and Friday, almost games Sunday as scheduled. six out of 10 Americans sai.d Near Buffalo, N.Y., the Los An­they have been praying more 
geles Raiders wore decals of than usual as a result of the the 33rd Tactical Squadron on war. their helmets; a player's Television evangelist Robert brother is a member. Schuller held three services broadcast nationwide Sunday 
At Candlestick Park in San devoted to a "G.I. Family Francisco, fans waved thou­Prayer" and the raising of a 90· sands of flags during the na­by-60-foot American flag in the tional anthem before the game sanctuary of the Crystal -some tiny. some needing six Cathedral in Garden Grove, 
people to hold. An anti-war Calif. protest planned outside the stadium failed to materialize. An overflow crowd at the 
Washington National Cathedral A group of Kent State University students r~ise an A_":'erican flag_ while attended a service originally
Demonstrations and vigils
chanting their support for the United Nattons coahtton forces 1n the meant to commemorate the
elsewhere continued, some to 
Persian Gulf during a student gathering on campus Thursday after­show support for President birthday of slain civil rights noon. Approximately 400 students gathered to attend the rally. Bush and some to express leader Martin Luther King Jr. 
Col. Raanan Gissin, the army's deputy spokesman, announced the Patriots were in place, but said he was not certain they could end the missile threat. The Patriot batteries. on loan from U.S. bases in Germany, were rushed into place after Iraqi missiles with conventional warheads heavily damaged buildings and wounded about 30 Israelis on Friday and Saturday. 
The United States has been urging Israel not to retaliate for the Iraqi attacks. Israel's entry into the gulf conflict could alienate Arab nations in the U.S.-Ied military force against Iraq. 
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, who was here last week to deliver a plea for Israeli restraint, returne·d Sunday for meetings with Shamir and Defense Minis­ter Moshe Arens. 
Eagleburger did not talk to 
-g~~:~T 
Allied 

Asof4p.m.,LOSSeS Sunday, Jan. 20 
UNITED STATES 

One dead. Twelve crewman from eight planes missing: 
a Navy FA-18 Hornet fighter-bomber. two Navy A-6 Intruders, an Air Force F-15E and a Marine OV-10 Bronco. One F-4G Wild Weasel crashed because of engine problems. An Army Black Hawk helicopter lost because of "non-battle damage." 

ITALY 
Two crewmen of a Tornado fighter-bomber missing. 
KUWAIT 
One pilot of an A-4 Skyhawk jet missing. 
SAUDI ARABIA 
Tornado fighter-bomber and crew lost. 

AP 
Viewpoint 
Monday, January 21, 1991
page 10 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Americans must unite in support of troops and leaders 
By Kenneth Osgood 

I woke up this morning and began to think about the things people tend to forget when they are sitting quietly in their homes watching the war from a distance. They forget about the dying. They forget how fright­ening it must be for Iraqi chil­dren to wake up to a black sky. They forget about the Israeli children who go to school with their books, their lunches and their gas masks. They forget about the 10-year-olds being trained in the use of a sub-ma­chine gun. They forget about the wives who said good-bye to their husbands for the last time. 
The presence of war is frightening, it is real, and it is now. 
It is very disturbing and frightening to think about war. But many people who remem­ber to think about the dying, the horror, and the children also forget why we're there and what we're defending. They forget history-they forget watching as the Nazi blitzkrieg rolled over France. They forget the lessons that history has taught us-we cannot sit idly in the face of aggression and op­pression. 
We have learned that with great power comes great re­sponsibility. The United States has great power. The Soviet Union has great power. Iraq has great power. The nations with great power have responsibility to keep each other in check. The nations must work with and, if necessary, against, one another to keep the world at peace. 
It is indeed frightening and horrible to go to war. What could be more frightening and horrible is not going to war. The Kuwaiti people have un­dergone unrestrained abuse. As a nation of power, we must use our powers to help the op­pressed-and halt the progress of aggression. 
As American people, we are faced with a delicate situation. We must not forget the men, women, and children of both sides who are giving their lives for peace. We must not forget the lives we are protecting. We must not forget why we are there. We are at war. Our brothers and sisters are fight­ing for the future sons and daughters around the world. 
While we are at home, safely watching the world at war, we must lend our support to those who need it. We must lend our support to the families of those who will die. We must lend sup­port to our children, who will be deathly afraid. We must lend support to our troops, many of whom will die. We must lend our support to our leaders who are under incredible strain fac­ing a nation at war. 
Instead of dividing this great nation from within, we must unify it. Our role in the conflict is important. If our troops are going to fight, and they are, we must let them know they are supported at home. People cry out against another "Vietnam." To prevent another Vietnam, our troops need our support, our leaders need our support, and we all need each other. 
Kenneth Osgood is in the Freshman Year ofStudies. 
LETTERS 

Hussein's aggressive actions justify fighting for peace 
Dear Editor, Hussein now~ so we don't have hold together forever, so it is Middle East. He bankrupted his Saddam Hussein must be 
The war in the Persian Gulf to do it in a few years, at much vital to act before it falls apart. nation in his war with Iran, but stopped now. If you really want has been underway for less greater cost. He has already George Bush reluctantly exer­since the war ended, he used a lasting peace, protest against than a day as I write this, and tried at least once to get nu­cised his only option when he his oil income to rearm his the disease, not the treatment. the TV news shows well-inten­clear weapons, and he will con­ordered the assault on Iraq. military to the teeth. If we let Pray for a cure to the disease tioned people protesting for tinue to do so if he can. Saddam Hussein is a cancer Saddam Hussein add Kuwait's called Saddam Hussein, and peace, but going about in the on world peace. The treatments oil income to his own, he will then world peace will recover. wrong way. Economic sanctions simply used to fight cancer are usually expand his military accordingly. 
will not work. So far. they have painful and unpleasant, but are Saddam does not use his na­Bruce T. Lotz 
Like everyone else, I, too, fer­had little effect on Iraq, and necessary to save the patient. If tion's wealth to build schools Off-campus vently want peace in the Middle none on Saddam's aggressive Saddam is allowed to keep and hospitals; he uses it to buy Department ofChemistry and East. I only regret that it must tendencies. Even if sanctions Kuwait, his cancer will continue weapons. Biochemistry be realized through armed were effective at hurting the to spread throughout the To avoid a true catastrophe, Jan. 17, 1991 force. It is important to realize Iraqi people, Saddam would not (but the peace protestors don't) withdraw from Kuwait. That is 
Observer editorial exemplifies arrogance
that peace cannot always be wishful thinking that is disputed obtained merely by wishing for by history. Consider this: For Dear Editor: the president's sincerity and is torial prefers to talk about such it and chanting slogans. As eight years, Saddam fought a The Jan. 16 Observer edito­an undeserved aspersion on events in Bush's letter as ironic as it sounds, sometimes very bloody war with Iran, rial about President Bush's let­Hatfield. analogies and asks for "fact." 
you have to fight for it. during which the Iraqi people ter to college students is a sad Perhaps the editors would have Unfortunately, Saddam Hussein suffered great deprivation and display of intolerance and ar-Despite last semester's liked videotapes to accompanyhas made it absolutely neces­120,000 dead countrymen. If rogance, particularly the refer-Viewpoint letter describing the president's letter. 
sary to fight. He has turned his Saddam was willing to subject 
ence to Bush's story about tragic rapes and murders of 
back on all diplomatic efforts his people to such punishment S.F.C. Hatfield as an anecdote. members of a Kuwaiti family by Professor R. M. Brach and left no choice. before, how can anyone realis­An allusion to Bush's story of Iraqi forces and Amnesty Dept. ofAerospace and The justification for sending tically think that mere eco­
Hatfield's patriotism (well-or International's claims of Mechanical Engineering 
U.S. forces into combat is not nomic sanctions would work ill-founded) as humor belittles widespread atrocities, the edi-Jan. 16, 1991 
cheap oil. It is not to put the now? emir of Kuwait back on his The international coalition 
The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your throne. It is to stop Saddam arrayed against Iraq will not 
thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The world is before you, and you need. not take it or leave it as it was when you came in.' 
James Baldwin 
Viewpoint
Monday, January 21, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS 

ND seeks cultural visibility, not true cultural diversity 

Dear Editor: 
In the year 1988-1989, the University of Notre Dame sponsored the Year of Cultural Diversity. The students of the University were given the opportunity to be the beneficiaries of knowledge shared through lecture series, fireside chats, cultural dinners and festivals. However, when one analyzes the progress made in the ethnic communities here at Notre Dam1~. one must ask: What was rnally aeeomplished during that year, and what was its real purposn'? 
Thn University has made a nominal commitment to minority students on campus and has vocalized this romrnitnwnt on several occasions. However. we, the minority students. have yet to experience thn realization of this commitment. The Univt~rsity has dnemed our needs "special," along with Health Services and the Counseling Center. I fail to see the correlation between minority students, ill students and mentally disturbed students. However, the Univnrsity has used this term to justify its d1mial of the best dtoice for Assistant Director of the Oftic!l of Minority Affairs ­Mr. Verge Gillam, also known as Hrother Sage. 
The administration has expressed that Mr. Gillam, the best qualified person for the position in the eyes of both the students and the present Director of Minority Affairs, would not be in the long term interest of the Office. It is my understanding that the Office of Minority Affairs and the students are synonymous. Without the students there would be no office. Therefore, the administration has told us that the person whom we felt would best fill the position, would not, in their opinion, be in our best interest. My question is: How would they know what is in our best interest? 

I have witnessed the work that this candidate has done with minority students on this campus in a workshop called "Afrocentric Mental Wellness." I had never seen such honesty, felt so much closeness, nor gained so much understanding with regard to the experiences shared by my African and African-Ameriean brothers and sisters on this campus. These kinds of workshops are needed very much and are extremely beneficial to minority students in learning to understand and cope with our situation as minorities here at the University and in America. However, the University has denied us the opportunity to tap into a very important resource. 
The administration is well committed to seducing minority students to come to the University. It provides a good financial aid package that will last for perhaps two years. During a special Minority Recruitment weekend, there are several parties and mixers in which we are surrounded by people of color, with similar experiences, values and social outlooks. However, upon arriving at the University, we discover that the weekend is contrived and is an inaccurate representation of what we actually lind at Notre Dame. 
We discover that, in actuality, there are few. minority faculty and even fewer with tenure. It is virtually impossible to take a course in African history or any other ethnic history because these courses are all cross­listed, resulting in stiff competition for enrollment, or, 
U.S. fai Is critical moral test with use of military force 
Dear Editor: 
I recently watched the NBC nightly news and the an­nouncement of the beginning of the Holocaust in the Middle East. I am now recalling an evening over Christmas Break, standing on the steps of the Washington State Capital in my home town of Olympia, listen­ing to my archbishop, Haymond llunthausen of Seattle, warning us that to choose a military so­lution to the situation in Iraq and Kuwait would be a failure of a r,ritical moral test. It would seem that we have now indeed failed that test. 
In the Jan. 16 Observer, a let­ter from George Bush ad­dressed to college students throughout the United States puts forth the notion that the moral issues in the Middle East are "black and white." If the prnsident aetually believes this, we should not bn surprised that the United States has failed the moral test that Archbishop llunthausen spoke of. There is very little in this life that is ei­ther black or white-unless perhaps it is death and life, and even the distinction between these has become increasingly our attack in Iraq, is purely an issue of justice and protecting the rights and freedom of the people of Kuwait. Regardless of the position that any of us may take on the use of military force against Iraq, I doubt that many of us are so naive as to believe that we are there simply to avenge a wrong, or to protect the rights and freedom of the people of Kuwait. 

I resent Bush's paternalistic "pat on the head" and being told to be good little boys and girls. If I am wrong, can we as­sume that, as soon as the wrong in Kuwait has been made right by might, we will move into Lithuania? Let's face it, we are engaged in this light primarily out of economic con­cern. 
Archbishop Hunthausen also told us that, as a nation, we have been asking ourselves the wrong question for the last five months. We have been search­ing our souls asking, "Is this worth dying for?" The correct question, according to the Archbishop, is: "Is this worth killing for?" I can't believe that it is. Possibly this is black or white. 
Sc;ke Frosi 

in some casis, the classes simply do not exist. No space exists to gather socially, for study, or for non-alcoholic parties. Although we have been provided with a decent financial aid package, we experience stress because we discover that our host for recruitment weekend could not return to school this year because of a decrease in her financial aid package. We are unable to seek immediate aid from the Office of Minority Affairs because the Director has no assistant and is constantly attending one administrative meeting after another. And, finally, many of us experience racial tensions, discrimination and harassment for the first time, only to discover that there is no way to document it. 
Some minority students, when exposed to these issues, seem perplexed. Some actually deny that the problems rest in the hands of the administration because they cannot understand any benefits that 
Pro v: ~e spe..c.1C\\ 'Sec-v:ces .ror fY\inor:t,es-'? .L ~<>v-0~+ we ju.. s+­
./ ~o..c\ 

·~..,._~""vY\o..n 
the University would receive in keeping us unhappy. My response to these concerns are two-fold. First, the University may not intentionally "keep us unhappy". They simply may not care. The University refuses to recognize the differences in the cultures of the ethnic communities on campus and ignores the fact that these differences require the provision of a unique social setting and the presence of individuals who are aware of our unique needs as people of color. Thus, cultural diversity is a facade, along with minority recruitment weekend. Their desire for minority students to attend this University stems from the need to have students of color sprinkled about the campus for the sake of federal funds and the Notre Dame image. 
Second, the underlying motivation of the administration is the desire for assimilation on the part of minority students. The University of Notre Dame does not want true cultural diversity! 
+-o Coun+ how 

~ we.... ""~ve 1-a­
~e+ .t:ede.ra.\ rnone8! 
If minority students become more in touch with themselves, they may realize the importance and the need of preserving their own culture. They will express this need and, inevitably, influence "other" students here at the University. Space to congregate means unity-and separation, but separation with knowledge and respect. More minority faculty means broader perspectives. A change in the curriculum to incorporate more of the reality of the myriad contributions made by the other 80 percent of the world's population means disillusionment on the part of many European-American students. God forbid! Truth may be revealed! Reality may actually become a factor in the lives of the future of America. Can Notre Dame and America afford such change? 
Can Notre Dame, America, and the world afford not to make such a change? 
Yolanda Knight Knott Hall Jan. 18, 1991 


Dear Editor: 

We're writing in response to the United States' offensive military strike on Iraq. We feel that this use of mass destruction is an inappropriate solution to the problem of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. As evidenced by the recent Congressional vote, a signif­icant fraction of the American people felt the same. 
In view of the attack, we are tempted to congratulate our­selves and our country for a job well done. In doing so, we risk Middle East are assuaged, we might easily forget the moral implications-and political consequences-of our actions. 
The question is: Were the options which we considered unacceptable last week suddenly rendered valid by their implementation Wednesday? To quote President Bush, "It's black and white ....Right vs. wrong." When applying such criteria to complex situations, we should consider each element separately: offense, response any bearing on the morality of such a military response. 
The use of massive violence to reach one's objectives is wrong. Saddam Hussein's violent seizure of Kuwait is wrong. Soviet military repression in the Baltic states is wrong. Our use of "brutal aggression" to liberate Kuwait is also wrong. 
When will our leaders learn that we will never achieve a lasting New World Order until we leave behind the methods of the old? 

grey. losing sight of some of the and consequence. Neither the Matthew Borkowski 
In his letter, the President at­Brice Abel, O.S.B. major issues. As concerns for atrocities committed against Kevin Degnan tempts to tell us that our pres­Brownson Hall the safety of the American Kuwait, nor the success of Off-campus ence in Saudi Arabia, and now Jan. 16, 1991 servicemen stationed in the Operation Desert Storm, has Jan. 16, 1991 
----~----­
Accent 
page 12 Monday, January 21, 1991 
Snite Presents 'A Day of Women' 
By BETH KESSLER 
Accent Writer 

On Saturday, January 26 the Snite Museum of Art will pre­sent a lecture and performance series entitled "A Day of Women." The series, held in the Annenburg auditorium, is in celebration of The Year of the Women. 
Beginning at 9:15 a.m. and continuing until 5:00 p.m., var­ious speakers and performers will give presentations on a range of subjects. The subjects include women in art, perfor­mances of chamber music and folk music composed by women, women in the media and workplace, a panel discus­sion of women in different fields, fiction and poetry read­ing by female authors and a museum tour highlighting im­ages of women and b.y women. Some presentations will focus on women through history, while others will present a more modern view. 
The event, organized by 
Diana Matthias, tour coordina­tor at the Snite, Matthias ad­dresses different interests. The women participating are from different age groups and will address various issues through discussion, performance and lecture. Matthias thought it especially important that the program involve people from the local community as well as Notre Dame. Some women are professors at Indiana University at South Bend, some are citizens of South Bend, and others are connected with Notre Dame. 
Matthias hopes to stimulate a dialogue between academics and the community, feeling that too frequently at university events it is just academics talk­ing to other academics. She predicts that this dialogue will be most prevalent in the panel discussion scheduled for 1:00 
p.m. featuring women in differ­ent fields. The panel includes several Notre Dame professors, a student, a doctor practicing in South Bend, and a journalist. All are women. 


A DAY OF 
WOMEN 
Sa~y.Jan.26, 1991 
The first event of the day will be a lecture with slides pre­sented by Susan Hood, entitled "Images of Women in Art." Hood is an assistant professor of art history at the University of Indiana at South Bend. She works in watercolors and was primarily a landscape artist un­til she moved to Indiana six years ago. Her focus is now more on individual elements of the landscape, such as flowers. 
Hood's presentations will be­gin with a brief history of women artists. She states it is "a history that is based on his­torical fact, but a history which provides a path for contempo­rary women." She will also dis­cuss the ways women have been represented in Western art and compare them to more modern images of women in art. 
Later in the day museum tours of the Snite, on a similar theme of images of women and images by women, will be given. The tours will be divided into five sections: African, Indian, Renaissance and 17th Century, 18th Century, and portraits. Most of the artwork was done by men, yet it reveals the role of women in society during the respective time periods. Tour guides will focus on the different views of women as shown in the art. 
Another presentation of a lecture with slides is scheduled for eleven o'clock. It will in­volve three female professors from Notre Dame. The theme is women in the media and workplace. 
Teresa Ghilarducci, an assis­tant professor of economics. will discuss women and con­sumerism. The question of why women are more prone to problems of shopping addiction will be addressed. Ghilarducci believes there is a strong con­nection between such problems and the gender roles society gives to women. 
Ava Collins, an adjunct in­structor of communication and theater, will also talk about gender roles when she analyzes the popular movie, "Pretty Woman." She feels this is a concrete example of how women are presented by the media. It is an especially im­portant film because of its popularity, particularly among women. Hilary A. Radner, an assistant professor of commu­nication and theater will also present a related topic. 
Sponsored by The Year of Women. The Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine and Performing Arts, the Program of Gender Studies, and the Friends of the Snite Museum, "A Day of Women" addresses many different aspects of the role of women in society. Matthias hopes it will give those who attend a better un­derstanding of how women have reached the positions in society they now hold. 
'Evening Shade': A Monday night must 
.­
Burt Reynolds makes a come back in his new comedy on CBS 
Marc Johnson 
To be continued ... 

Where has Burt Reynolds been hiding himself over the past years? Perhaps this question has not been foremost in anyone's mind lately, but as I watched "Evening Shade" this question seemed very logical. 
"Evening Shade" airs on CBS on Monday nights at 8:30 p.m., and Burt Reynolds is the star whose name CBS hopes will attract viewers. CBS' choice led me to my initial question. When I asked myself whether or not I would view a television program based on Burt Reynolds' merit alone, I determined that I would not. What has he done lately? I realize that he was supposed to be some tremendous sex symbol of the late 1970's, but the success of "Cannonball Run" has long since been forgotten if it was ever remembered. 
I will not deny that I approached "Evening Shade" with a definite bias. but I will also not deny that I was definitely pleased by the results of this program. Burt Reynolds is not the only reason "Evening Shade" succeeds, for the success results from the interplay of his character and that of Marilu Henner. 
Wood Newton is the character Burt Reynolds portrays, and Wood works as a high school football coach in a small town in the deep South. Marliu Henner plays his wife who has just been hired as a public defender as one particular episode began. 
The origin of this role reversal theme was very obvious, and it has been used any num­ber of times in any number of situation 
., comedies. We all know that the days of "Leave It to Beaver" are gone forever, but the working mother episodes of modern comedies have not always been successful. This episode does succeed but not based on its originality. "Evening Shade's" success 


(From left to right) Among the inhabitants of Evening Shade, Ark., are Hal Holbrook, as newspaper editor Evan Evans, Elizabeth Ashley as his colorful sister, Frieda, and Ossie Davis as 

comes from the interplay of the program's characters. 
The dialogue of "Evening Shade" is very funny and quite rapid. When Reynold's character cooks a horrible meal for his wife and family, she is humorously unsympathetic. "You can't cook, but you sure are pretty." 
Reynolds' character responds in his typical manner, dry and sarcastic. "If you want to emasculate me, why don't you go all the way?" says Wood as he hands his wife a knife. 
The humorous dialogue continues throughout the episode, and while Henner's character is constantly smiling, Reynolds' 
· never smiles. The pair make a great comic team. and as they work out their differences to create the perfect and typical sit-com endfng, the viewer will find the experience very funny. If these two characters are not humorous enough for the harsher viewers, "Evening Shade" is filled with the odd characters that create the humor of such a small town. A sex pot and a man who uses imported animal urine to treat his baldness are both characters who make regular appearances. If the plot on which this review focuses seems weak, "Evening Shade" dabbles in more bizarre subjects. In an episode which aired over Christmas break, new neighbors attempted to convince the Newton's to join in their bizarre sexual adventures. Needless to say, they did not oblige their neighbors, but the Newton's milked the situation for all the tasteful humor they could. Burt Reynolds has returned, and with the help of Marilu Henner, I feel that his return is very successful. Of all the new programs of the past fall, "Evening Shade" easily qualifies as the best, and is worth the thirty minutes which will be taken from your Monday night. 
Ponder Blue, owner of the deluxe Barbecue Villa, in the bizarre, new sit-com "Evening Shade" on Monday nights at 8:30 p.m. on CBS. 


Monday, January 21, 1991 The Observer page 13 
-
Second-half o_utburst helps Hoosiers get by Iowa 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Indiana is not a fluke," Iowa clippings a little bit and let up a coach Tom Davis said. "They're little."
When Rob Knight speaks, the a really strong ballclub. The Letting up a little againstIndiana Hoosiers jump. 
second half they were Indiana is fatal, especially
In the first half of Saturday outstanding in their execution." when the Hoosiers have anight's game at Iowa, Indiana 

player like Calbert Cheaney.
shot 43 percent. In the second As for his own team, Davis The smooth 6-foot-6half. the Hoosiers fired away at noted, "We've got a lot to sophomore hit seven of eight77 percent, making 13 of their 
learn." shots in the second half andfirst 14 shots. 
Iowa had considered itself a finished with 30 points to leadSo what sort of coaching ge­surprise contender in the Big Indiana.
nius from Knight produced the Ten race after beating Michigan turnaround? 
State and Michigan and losing Cheaney got five of those by only four points at Ohio points in a 9-0 Indiana run that"I called a timeout and told 
State. But the three straight opened a 55-48 lead early in
them to shoot better," he said. 
losses have dampened some of the second half. Iowa never"It was a good coaching move." 
that optimism, and the recovered from that burst.
Third-ranked Indiana broke a Hawkeyes have a tough stretch Indiana went on to outscore the40-40 halftime tie with its tor­of games coming up. Hawkeyes 30-10 for a 72-55rid shooting and beat No. 24 After an eight-day break, Iowa lead, and the Hoosiers wereIowa 99-79 to remain unbeaten plays at Illinois and Purdue, ahead by as many as 26 pointsin Big Ten Conference play. It meets Northwestern at home, late. 
was the 14th straight victory 
then visits Michigan State and "We started out flat (in thefor the Hoosiers, who are 16-1 
Michigan. second halO and they got on aoverall and 4-0 in the Big Ten. 
roll," Iowa's Rodell Davis said.
They're half a game behind 
"The reality is, we just weren't "It was tough to stop them be­
Ohio State, which plays at 
up to it," Davis said. "But I cause they're a great team."
Indiana Monday night. 
think they'll be fine. The're Eric Anderson added 14
Iowa (13-5 and 2-4) lost for 
young and they've got pretty points for Indiana, Damon
the third straight time and had good bounce-back to them. In Bailey scored 11 and Lyndon
an 11-game home winning 
this season, anything can hap­Jones had 10. Acie Earl ledstreak broken. 
pen yet. I think some of them Iowa with 18 points, Val Barnes"I think you c1.n see that 
started reading their press !Scored 15 and Davis had 14. Indiana coach Bob Knight gives star pupil Calbert Cheany some friendly advice. Cheany had 30 pts. for the Hoosiers against Iowa. 
War in the Middle East breaks into football coverage 

NEW YOHK (AP) -As Iraq 

launched what appeared to be a missile attack on a major allied military base in Saudi Arabia on Sunday, NBC stuck with the NFI.. 
Although it showed several hrief news reports in the first and sneond quarters, NBC didn't go to a detailed report of the war in the Persian Gulf until halftime of the Raidnrs­Bills AFC championship game, which Buffalo led 41-3 at the time. 
NBC's halftime show began at 2:16 p.m. EST, perhaps 15 minutes after it was first learned that U.S. forces at Dhahran, Saudi Arabia fired Patriot anti-missile missiles to intercept incoming Iraqi Scuds. After brief remarks by NBC sports commentator Bob Costas at the start of halftime, the network switched to Tom Brokaw and a war report. 
"News was given all the time they've asked for," NBC spokesman Ed Markey said, adding there was no discussion of leaving the football game en­tirely in favor of Gulf news. 
Ironically, when NBC went to the news report, CBS, which was to show the NFC Championship game later in the day, was showing an old Western movie, and ABC was a1nng the 12th annual American Black Achievement Awards. NBC beat both of them to Gulf news. 
Brokaw's halftime Gulf report lasted from about 2:16 p.m. to 
2:21 p.m., and there was a two­minute news report at 2:27 p.m., after a commercial break and before the second half of the football game began. 
"Whenever there is a breaking story anywhere in the Middle East, NBC will have it for you," Brokaw said as he returned the network to football announcers Dick Enberg and Bill Walsh. 

NBC did not go to its first news break in the football game until the end of the first quarter. That was before re­ports of a Scud missile attack on Saudi Arabia. The break lasted just two minutes, and not a single play was missed. 
The next time NBC broke into the football game was to switch to Dhahran and NBC reporter Arthur Kent, whose audio went out as he was trying to make the initial report of a missile attack. That reported last for only a minute, but Buffalo scored a touchdown during it to go ahead 34-3. 
There was another five­minute break for news shortly afterward. At the end of it, veteran NBC newsman Garrick Utley in the studio told Kent to get to his bunker and put on his gas mask. At 2:08 p.m., NBC made its fourth news break during the first half and its last until halftime. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classllieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of ND ave and Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287·4082 
Please join us in our prayer for peace at the Center for Social Concerns chapel each weekday evening at 5:15. 
Pax Christi-NO 

( LOST/FOUND J 
-HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY NIGHT THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM #115. P.O. BOX 1214, AND A BUSINESS KEY· AROUND 
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA 
FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE 
THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE 
FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK 
YOU!! 
Lost: gold and pearl-face 
watch w/ black strap. Please 
call x3948. Thanks 
LOST: BLACK COAT WITH RED PATIERN LINING AT THE COMMONS WEDNESDAY NIGHT. CALL CARRIE 283·1250. 
LOST: Brown leather aviator jacket. Lost at Senior Bar on Thursday night. Call #1190. 
Found· gold wedding band. Call 283·2917 to ID. 
FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. 
!nit. "R?N" If yours call x3470 & ID 
color and MI. 
WANTED 
Roomate for two bedroom 
townhouse at Tulle Creek 
wanted. Bedroom is furnished. 
Contact Tim at x2506. 
VIDEO OF MIAMI PEP RALLY. Doesn't have to be perfect. Will pay. going rate. Call parent collect evenings 518·273·2792. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800·343-8373. 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS/NORTHEAST· TOP 
SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST 
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY. CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, 
DANCE, DRAMA. DRUMS. 
FENCING. FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, 
HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING. KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, 
PIANO. ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER. TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332 
(617) 934·6536. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS· NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934·6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK. NY 10543 (914) 381·5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)·SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS· NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM. SWIM TEAM. BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU. 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934·6536. 
ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, sleepaway camp in Massachusetts seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all land & water sports. fitness. gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance. archery, photography, computers, model rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper. wilderness. woodwork, AN. 
6/23·8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800·955-CAMP. 
ATIENTION: Excellent income for home assembly work. 504-646· 1700 DEPT. P5868. 
Mary Poppins, we need you!! We 
are two little boys. Can you come 
to our house in the Granger area 
and take care of us? We would like 
for you to come for 15·20 hrs. a 
week. Our parents are flexible and 
will pay you money, too. We're 
really nice. Please call 
277-2468 or 288·6466. .-----...,...------., 
FOR RENT I 
FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM 
HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 
SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL 
OR SUMMER. 272·6306 PETER 
GILLIS. 

QUAINT APTS. NEAR N.D. 
·furnished efficiency $225 
-upstairs 1 bedroom $255 
-downstairs 1 bedroom $265 
deposit, references 616·483·9572 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses, 
prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219·291·7153. 

ANYONE INTERESTED IN TAKING OVER A LEASE AT RUNAWAY BAY. PLEASE CALL 255·7815. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to 
campus. Only $150/month. Call 
Paul287·2159. 

Party-time! Furn. 2.4.5 bedrm. 
homes. Safe, priv. park. 
washer/dryer, beach V-ball 
court. Bruce 234·3831 or 
288-5653 

2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232-3616 . 
Furnished efficiency • across 
street from bus stop $225 
call Brandon x1870 
Large Furnished Turtle Creek 
Stud. Apt 5 min from campus 
$390 neg 234·1539 
DOGHAUS returns with a 
barrage of pre-apocalyptic 

r--sou-nds_.------,
l 
FOR SALE 
· 82 VOLVO, GREAT COND. PIONEER STEREO $1900 OR B/0, 272·4223 

FOR SALE: '81 FORD ESCORT, 
$500 OR B.O. 234·2728 (RICK) 
PERSONALS 
Band looking for BASSIST 

call Greg 234-1 048 or Scott 282· 
1557 

John Kroepfl and Mike Richardson are nimrods. Tim Rogers is Sinead O'Connor. Tom Gibbons is still Vanilla Ice. Blair O'Connor touches himself late at night. 
Send $1 to p.o. box 364 
ND,IN 46556 
do you love? 
Please write. 
MALE SENIORS-Were your 
senior pictures numbered 
FE-1111? You have dark 
hair; are wearing a yellow 
tie. blue shirt and dark coat. 
They were delivered to me by 
mistake, call Julie at '4816. 
Eric Bailey is a dead man. I have 
pictures and I know stories. Die, E.G., die. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN CANCUNI COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN A FREE TRIP AND CASH. NOTHING TO BUY · WE PROVIDE EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 1·800-395·4896 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1·800·638·6786. 
Jeanne. 
Ah, well. the irony of it all. Thanks 
for a good weekend. Even though 
the tide was in, I still had fun. 
Love, Arthur 
P.S. I love you. 
Laura· 
Glad you've found a new identity! 
Your amazing human tricks were 
the hit of our Saturday night. What a 
great way to pick up guys! 
Mare· Welcome back our bella roommate. Lisa and Kara 
NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 1991? Earn $500-1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details -Rush $1.00 with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 Laura! Hill Orlando Fl.32818 

-Scoreboard 
Monday, January 21, 1991
page 14 

NBA STANDINGS AP MEN'S TOP 25 NHL STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

1. UNLV (13-0) beat UC Irvine 117-76; beat 
Atlantic Division Long Beach State 114-63. WALES CONFERENCE w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 

2. Arkansas (17-1) beat Texas Christian 93-73; Patrick Divialon Boston 29 8 .784 6-4 LOS13 19-3 10.5 19-6 beat Southern Methodist 98-70. w L T Pta GF GA Home Away DIY 
Philadelphia 22 16 .579 71/2 3-7 Lost2 14-6 8-10 17-6 NV Rangers 26 16 8 60 184 153 14-7-5 12-9-3 9-6-3 New York 16 21 .432 13 4-6 Wont 6-12 8-9 10.14 
3. Indiana (16-1) beat Purdue 65-62; beat No. 
24 Iowa 99-79. Philadelphia 24 21 6 54 169 161 12-9-4 12-12-2 7-10.5 Washington 16 21 .432 13 6-4 Lost2 10.5 6-16 9-12 
4. Ohio State (15-0) beat Illinois 89-55. Pittsburgh 25 21 3 53 210 181 15-11-1 10-10.2 12-9-0 New Jersey 11 26 .297 18 1-9 Lost 1 8-12 3-14 6-17 5. North Carolina (13-2) vs. Nonh Carolina New Jersey 19 19 10 48 174 165 13-6-6 6-13-4 8-10.5 
Miami 11 27 .289 18 1/2 4-6 Wont 8-11 3-16 5-17 State, ppd., war; lost to No. 12 Duke 74-60. Washington 21 25 2 44 !55 162 11-10.1 10.15-1 11-9-1 
6. Arizona (15-2) beat Arizona State 74-71; NV Islanders 16 25 6 38 132 166 9-14-3 7-11-3 6-9-4
' 
Central Dlvlelon 
beat VIllanova 72-64. 

Chicago 27 11 .711 8-2 Lost! 17-3 10.8 16-6 7. UCLA (13-3) lost to Stanford 89-82; vs. Adame Division Detroit 27 12 .692 1/2 9-1 Lost 1 16-1 11-11 16-5 
California. Boston 26 15 8 60 176 158 15-6-3 11-9-5 10-6-3 Milwaukee 27 13 .675 1 5-5 Lost 1 20-1 7-12 17-11 
8. Syracuse (16-2) beat No. 13 Connecticut Montreal 26 18 5 57 161 146 14-7-2 12-11-3 10-5-2 Atlanta 23 15 .605 4 8-2 Won4 15-8 8-9 13-14 
81-79, OT; beat No. 25 Seton Hall78-64. Buffalo 19 17 10 48 163 149 10-6-6 9-11-4 5-6-4 Indiana 15 23 .395 12 5-5 Wont 13-6 2-17 9-15 Hartlord 45 7-9-3
9. Kentucky (14-2) beat Mississippi 95-85; 20 22 5 137 157 10.10.3 10.12-2 Charlotte 12 25 .324 14 112 3-7 Lost 1 6-11 4-14 7-15 
beat Vanderbih 59-50. Quebec 10 30 8 28 135 212 5-13-5 5-17-3 5-9-5 Cleveland 12 26 .316 15 1-9 Lost 1 6-12 4-14 9-15 
10. St. John's (13-2) beat Providence, 85-79, 
OT; beat No. 16 Pittsburgh 73-71. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE 
11. Oklahoma (14-3) lost to Missouri 80-72; Norrie Dlvlalon 
Uidweet Dlvlelon beat Oklahoma State 76-72. w L T Pta GF GA Home Away DIY 

w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 
Coni 12. Duke (15-3) beat Wake Forest 89-67; beat Chicago 32 14 4 68 167 128 17-6-2 15-8-2 13-6-1 13-3 19-5 Citadel 83-50; beat No. 5 Nonh Carolina 74-60. 14 139 11-5-2
San Antonio 26 10 .722 7-3 Wont 13-7 St. Louis 26 7 59 172 12-6-5 14-8-2 Utah 26 13 .667 1112 7-3 Lost 1 16-3 10.10 18-6 
13. Connecticut ( 12-4) lost to No. 8 Syracuse Detrott 22 21 5 49 163 t70 18-6-0 4-15-5 9-7-2 
Houston 20 18 .526 7 4-6 Wont 13-6 7-12 12-11 13 8 146 8-14-4 2-12-3
81-79, OT; lost to Providence 108-102. Minnesota 28 34 174 5-14-4 Minnesota 13 23 .361 13 Won2 6-10 5-13 9-16 Toronto 31 28 135 196 5-10.2
6-4 14. Virginia (11-4) beat Maryland 76-62; lost to 12 4 7-18-2 5-13-2 Dallas 13 24 .351 13 1/2 3-7 Wont 6-10 5-14 6-19 
Georgia Tech 78-51. Orlando 10 29 .256 171/2 4-6 Lost3 6-10 2-19 6-20 15. East Tennessee State (14-1) beat Citadel Smythe Division Denver 8 30 .211 19 2-8 Lost 1 6-12 2-18 4-21 96· 76; beat Western Carolina 93·76. Los Angeles 26 16 5 57 192 152 15-6-3 11-10.2 7-6-3 
16. Pittsburgh (14-4) lost to No. 10 St. John's Calgary 25 17 5 55 194 151 13-7-1 12-10.4 11-6-2 Pacific Dtvlelon 
73-71. Edmonton 22 20 3 47 150 143 13-8-1 9-12-2 7-9-2 Portland 34 7 .829 7-3 Won4 19-2 15-5 20-5 
17. Nebraska (16-1) did not play. Vancouver 18 26 4 40 150 179 10.11-2 8-15-2 6-13-0 LA Lakers 25 11 .694 6 1/2 8-2 Won6 16-4 9-7 18-8 
18. Southern Mississippi (10-1) beat Tulane Winnipeg 15 27 8 38 158 181 10.11-3 5-16-5 8-5-5 Phoenix 25 12 .676 7 7-3 Lost 1 15-4 10.6 17-7 
64-57; beat Memphis State 87-77. Golden State 21 17 .553 11112 6-4 Lost 1 12-4 9-13 13-11 
19. Georgetown (11-4) lost to Villanova 65-56; Saturday'• Game Seattle 17 19 .472 14 112 5-5 Won1 12-6 5-13 8-13 
beat Boston College 56-49. Campbell All-Stars 11, Wales All-Stars 5 LA Clippers 14 26 .350 19 112 3-7 Lost 1 10.8 4-18 11-12 
20. LSU (12-3) beat Alabama 90-80; beat Sunday'• Gamea Sacramento 9 26 .257 22 3-7 Wont 8-10 1-16 7-18 Mississippi 87-71. · No games scheduled 
21. New Mexico State (12-2) beat Fresno Monday'• Game Saturday'• Game• 
State 82-77; lost to Fullerton State 89-81. Minnesota at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. Atlanta 114, New Jersey 84 
22. South Carolina (13-4) beat Virginia Tech Tueaday'e Games Indiana 117, Utah 104 
83-67; lost to Florida State 81-80, OT. Boston at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. New York 112, Philadelphia 97 
23. Utah-(17-1) beat Wyoming 90-83; beat Air Washington at Oetrott, 7:35 p.m. 
Minnesota 121, Golden State 113 
Force 57-47. N.Y. Rangers at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Dallas 110, Charlotte 95 
24. Iowa (13-5) lost to Wisconsin 91-79; lost to Toronto at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Houston 107, LA Clippers 96 No. 3 Indiana 99-79. Calgary at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.rnSan Anton lo 117, Denver 108 
25. Seton Hall (11-4) beat Boston College 71-New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Seattle 111, Washington 89 62; lost to No. 8 Syracuse 78-64. St. Louis at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 
Sacramento 101, Phoenix 97 Los Angeles at Edmonton, 9:35 p.rn 
Sundoy'e Gome AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
Portland 116, Milwaukee 112 
NFL BOXES 
Uondoy'e Gamee 

1. VIrginia (16-1) beat Maryland 76-59; beat 
Philadelphia at New York, 1 p.m. 
Georgia Tech 98-72. 
BILLS 51, RAIDERS 3Orlando at Washington, 1 p.m. 

2. Tennessee (14-3) beat Richmond 80-54; GIANTS 15, 49ERS 13
Loa Angeleo 3 0 0 0 3Minnesota at Denver, 4 p.m. 
beat Florida 71-70; lost to No. 10 Auburn 70-65. New York 3 3 3 6 15
Buffalo 21 20 0 10 51
Boston at Detrott, 7:30 p.rn 3. Penn State (13-1) beat Massachusetts 95-San Francisco 3 3 7 0 13 
LA Lakers at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. 
27; beat Rhode Island 93-47. 
RratOworter

Chicago at Miami, 7:30p.m. Rrat Quarter
4. North Carolina State (14-2) beat Wake Houston at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Buf-Lolton 13 pass flam Kelly (Norwood
Forest 88-83; beat No. 17 Clemson 77-55. SF-FG Cofer 47, 5:07. 
kick), 3:30. 

5. UNLV (14-2) beat New Mexico State 90-75; NV-FG Bahr 28, 12:19. 
. LA-FG Jaeger 41, 5:49.
Tueoday'e Game• lost to No. 19 Texas 89-67; lost to Fullerton State Second Quarter

But-Thomas 12 run (Norwood kick), 6:59. 
Miami at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. 
86-80. NV-FG Bahr 42. 14:00.
Buf-Talley 27 Interception return (NorwoodNew Jersey at Cha~otte, 7:30p.m. 
6. Rutgers (13-1) beat West Virginia 95-77; lost SF-FG Cofer 35, 14:57.
kick), 11:51.

LA Lakers at Orlando, 7:30 p.rn 
to Holy Cross 78-67. Third Quarter
Second Quarter

LA Clippers at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. 7. Georgia (15-2) beat North Carolina­SF-Taylor 61 pass from Montana (CoferMilwaukee at Seattle, 10 p.rn 
But-Davis 1 run (kick blocked), 5:58.
Charlotte 81-56; beat DePaul 90-67; beat No. 14 kick). 4:32. Houston at Golden State, 10:30 p.rn 
Buf-Davls 3 run (Norwood kick), 11 :42.
Mississippi 77-64. NV-FG Bahr 46, 10:35. Phoenix at Portland, 10:30 p.m. Purdue Indiana 73-60; beat Fourth QuarterBuf-Lofton 8 pass from Kelly (Norwood kick), 
8. (15-1) beat 
13:54. 

Michigan 72-52; beat Michigan State 82-51. NV-FG Bahr 38, 9:13. 
Fourth Quarter

9. Stanford (12-3) beat UCLA 91-74; beat NV-EG Bahr 42, 15:00.
TRANSACTIONS But-Davis 1 run (Norwood kick). :02. 
Southern Cal 77-69. A--85,750.
SUPER BOWL HISTORY Buf-FG Norwood 39, 2:46. 
10. Auburn (13-3) beat South Alabama 86-48; 
A--80,324. . BASEBALL beat No.2 Tennessee 70-65. NVG SF 1900-San Francisco (NFC) 55, Denver (AFC) 10 American League 11. LSU (13-2) beat Texas A&M 90-75; beat First downs 20 13
LA Bul
198~an Fran (NFC) 20, Cincinnati (AFC) 16 SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to a working Southern Mississippi 82-75. Rushes-yards 36-152 I 1-39
First downs 21 301988-Washington (NFC) 42, Denver (AFC) 10 agreement with Jacksonville of the Southern 12. Arkansas (15-2) beat Texas Christian 95-Passing 159 201
Rushes-yards 28-151 46-202
1987-N.V. Giants (NFC) 311, Denver (AFC) 20 League. 62; beat Southern Methodist 99-61. Return Yarde 42 40
Passing 169 300
1986--Chlcago (NFC) 46, New England (AFC) 10 TEXAS RANGERS-Signed Brad Arnsberg, 13. Washington (12-3) beat Oregon 55-50; lost Return Yards 22 Comp-Att-lnt 15-29-0 19-27-0
143 pitcher, to a one-year contract. 
1985--San Francisco (NFC) 38, Miami (AFC) 16 to Oregon State 84-67. Sacked-Yards Lost 3-17 3-14
Comp-Att-lnt 15-39-6 17-23-1
1984-L.A. Aalders (AFC) 38, Washington (NFC) 9 14. Mississippi (12-3) beat Pral~e View 87-42; Punts 3-41 5-40
Sacked-Yards Lost 1-7 0-0
1983-Washlngton (NFC) 27, Miami (AFC) 17 lost to No. 7 Georgia 77-64. Fumbles-Lost 0-0 3-1
Punts 3-40 2-38
t982-5an Fran (NFC) 26, Cincinnati (AFC) 21 15. Northwestern (1 0-3) beat Wisconsin 86-85. Penalties-Yards 5-45 9-63
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 3-0
1981--...Qakland (AFC) 27, Philadelphia (NFC) 10 16. Western Kentucky (15-1) beat Vanderbih Time of Possession 38:59 21:01
Penahies-Vards 2-28 6-321980--Pittsburgh (AFC) 31, Los Angeles (NFC) 19 80-78; beat South Alabama 80-62. 
Time of Possession 28:25 31:35
1979--f'ittsburgh (AFC) 35, Dallas (NFC) 31 BASKETBALL 17. Clemson (10.5) beat Radford 90-45; lost,to INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 1978--Qallas (NFC) 27, Denver (AFC)"tO National Basketball Association South Carolina 75-62; lost to No. 4 North Carolina RUSHING-New York: Anderson 20-67,
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

1977--...Qakland (AFC) 32, Minnesota (NFC) 14 SACRAMENTO KINGS-Signed Jim Les, State 77-55. Meggett 10.36, Reasons 1-30, Hostetler 3-11,
RUSHING-Loa Angeles: Bell 5-36, Evans
1976--Pittsburgh (AFC) 21, Dallas (NFC) 17 guard, for the remainder of the season. 18. Connecticut (14-2) beat Syracuse 65-63. Carthon 2-8. San Fronciaco: Craig 8-26,
4-33, Schroeder 4-33, Allen 10·26, Smith 4-19,
197~tttsburgh (AFC) 16, Minnesota (NFC) 6 19. Texas (10-5) beat No.5 UNLV 89-67. Montana 2-9, Rathman 1-4. 
McCallum 1-4. Buffalo: Thomas 25-138, Gardner
1974-Miarri (AFC) 24, Minnesota (NFC) 7 20. Iowa (8-6) lost to Indiana 74-59; beat Ohio PASSING-New York: Hostetler 15-27-0­
1-23, K.Davls 10.21, Kelly 2-12, Mueller 3-6,1973--Miarri (AFC) 14, Washington (NFC) 7 State 88-68. 
176, Meggett 0-1-0-0, Cavanaugh 0-1-0-0.San t972--Qallas (NFC) 24, Mlarri (AFC) 3 D.Smtth 3-3, Reich 2-(mlnus 1).
21. Providence (14-2) beat Syracuse 75-71. Franclaco: Montana 18-26-0-190, Young 1-1-0­
· PASSING-Loa Angeles: Schroeder 13­1971-Battlmore (AFC) 16, Dallas (NFC) 13 22. Notre Dame (11-3) beat Loyola-llllnois 25.
31-5-150, Evans 2-8-1-26. Buffalo: Kellr 17-23-1­1970-Kansas City (AFL) 23, Minnesota (NFL) 7 66-55; beat Marquette 91-73. 
RECEIVING-New York: Ingram 5-82,1969--N.V. Jets (AFL) 16, Ba~lrnore (NFL) 7 23. Louisiana Tech (9-4) beat New Orleans 300, Reich 0-0-0-0. 
Bavaro 5-54, Baker 2-22, Meggett 2-15, Anderson 1968--Green Bay (NFL) 33, Oakland (AFL) 14 72-58; beat Central Flo~da 88-54. 
RECEIVING-Loa Angelea: Fernandez 4­
57, Horton 3-25, Gauh 2-32, Bell 2-26, Allen 2-19, 1-3. San Francleco: Alee 5-54, Rathman 4-16,1967--Green Bay (NFL) 35, Kansas Chy (AFL) 10 COLLEGE 24. Oklahoma State (14-3) lost to Nebraska T.Brown 2-17. Buffalo: Lofton 5-113, Thomas 5-Jones 3-46, Craig 3-16, Taylor 2-75, Sherrard 2-8. 
MOREHOUSE-Announced the resignation of 67-64; beat Oklahoma 70-64. 
61, McKeller 3-44, Tasker 2-53, Reed 2-29. MISSED FIELD GOALS-New York: BahrDwight Scales, football coach. 25. Long Beach State (8-5) beat UC Irvine 81· 
MISSED FIELD GOALS-Buffalo: 37.
44; beat UC Santa Barbara 87-73. 
Norwood 45. 

II!!\ travelmore
Thinking ofdoing 
~Carlson Travel Network 
ayear ofservice? 
ATTENTION FACULTY,STAFF,STUDENTS 
How about doing it 
Please visit our new location at
for alifetime? 
1723 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank's Red Hots) 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
New Hours: 8 am .. 5:30 pm Monday--Friday
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
University of Notre Dame for college graduates 
Please call284--2051 or 1--800--232--2681 
interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
236--2656 Saturday only 9 am--12 noon 
Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C 
STOP BY AND REGISTER TO WIN 2 FREE TICKETS 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
ANYWHERE IN THE CONTINENTAL O.S. 
Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
WINNERS TO BE ANNOUNCED AT OOR 
(219) 239-6385 

GRAND OPENING. 

Monday, January 21, 1991 The Observer page 15 

Irish swimmers rebound, defeat Northern Illinois 
Divers help men win a close meet  Depth proves the key for women  
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer  meet without winning the last event-the 200 freestyle relay  By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer  backstroke and 200 individual medley. Senior Callie Bolattino  
which, in fact, they didn't win.  and O'Connell placed first and  
The Notre Dame men's swim  Senior co-captains Jim Byrne,  The Notre Dame women's  second, respectively, in the 100  
team pulled out a close meet against Northern Illinois on Saturday 152-148. Team depth  Paul Godfrey, and Brian Rini all swam excellent meets. Byrne in the 200 backstroke and 200  swim team rebounded from last Saturday's losses to Ohio State and Minnesota by defeating  breaststroke, while seniors Jean Kelly, Amy Tri, Chrissy Ciletti and Kathleen McKinney  
paid ofT for an Irish squad that  i.m. and Godfrey in the 500  Northern Illinois 172-122 this  all scored Irish points.  
only won seven events to the  freestyle.  Rini 's impressive  weekend.  
Huskies' nine.  200 butterfly time of 1:53.73  A much refreshed Irish squad  The senior performances  
Freshman freestyler David Nathe and diver Sean Hyer  missed first by .1 second.  dominated the waves over the Huskies. The Irish now have  rubbed off on the younger members of the squad, as  
were the only double winners,  Across the board the men's  won two consecutive meets  Tanya Williams (500 and 1000  
Nathe  in  the  100 and  200  team raced much better than a  against the Huskies after losing  freestyles and the 200 fly),  
freestyles and llyer in the 1 and 3-meter diving events. Torn Whoell, John Godfrey and Ed Broderick claimed the other Irish firsts. Whoell won  week ago when a road weary squad competed against Ohio State. Greg Cornick, Colin Cooley and Jim Birmingham claimed seconds in other strong  the first five meets in the series. Coach Tim Welsh commended the seniors for racing ex­ Alicia Feehery (100 and 200 freestyles), Kristin Heath (200 i.m.), Jenny Kipp (1-meter div­ing) and Stevens (1 00 back­stroke) accumulated eight  
the 100 and Godfrey the 200  swims.  tremely well and filling the  firsts.  
backstroke, and Broderick the 200 individual medley respec­tively.  This week the Irish prepare for a road trip to Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure. Coach Tim Welsh noted that  gaps left by the absence of five Irish swimmers who were unable to race due to injury or illness.  Welsh noted a "significant improvement" in the team from last weekend and feels  
But the first places were not all the points the Irish needed.  Cleveland State has improved but the Irish should have more  Senior Christy Moston, co­captain Tracie O'Connell,  Saturday's meet was excellent race preparation for the up­ 
Junior diver Pat Dugan outscored a lluskie diver by  depth. As for the Bonnies, "the last four meets have been won  Shana Stevens and Alicia Feehery began the Irish point  coming away meets this Friday and Saturday.  
less than one point to claim fourth place. Dugan's points enabled the Irish to win the  by the home team-they'll cer­tainly _be ready for us, I hQpe we'll be ready for them."  The Observer I Marguerite Schropp Sean Hyer gets ready to make a splash against Northern Illinois.  accumulation on the first place 400-yard medley relay team, 4:06.49.  "Cleveland State has im­proved," Welsh forecasted, "but the Irish should have more  

ATTENTION JUNIORS Come find out about Summer Internship Opportunities at The Travelers: 
• 
Actuarial Science 

• 
Information Systems 

• 
Finance 


SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 23, 1991 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
• 
Please bring a resume and transcript. 

• 
Interviews to be held January 24, 1991. 

• 
All positions will be located in Hartford, Connecticut. 


TheTraveler~ 
depth. St. Bonaventure is the 
Moston took strong second most improved team on our places with three impressive schedule, perhaps a toss-up swims in the 200 butterfly, 200 meeting." 
~~~~~-*************~ ~ The Main Laundromat ~ 
~ 1518 North Main Street ~ 
~ Mishawaka i( 
; Hou~~§n?9:!?.~-~da~•we.> ;
'"" Clean, Friendly, Convenient '"" 
~ WASHERS ONLY 85¢ ~ 
~ Mon. + Fri. : FREE Tide in every wash i(
iC Every Day : Drop-off-$.40 per pound 
~ Thursday: Tanning-$3.00 per session iC 
'1' c . 'k 
~ onvement p1c -up and delivery to your dorm iC ~ room. Dorm discounts available. iC 
******************* 
WELCOME BACt< SMCI 00Cf( SALE TOOA'Y TIIM)lJf:li WltN:SDAY! 
SOPti()M()R£ PI£TWE Nlo-tl
(CIM£ 6fT mm OO()I(S av.P 
(jn ~ PICRJ~ TAkfN F~
AT nl SllUNT fJO\'ERNMINT 
Tt£ PARfNT WffkfND VUO
BOOk. S.*d.l na-t 3-f)p.m.
31-d R OOR Of liAt;CJAR! ltJ tiAGij~ ~~LOR .IANUAG,., lf mm~ A =m,7~mMAkf n FtN 
Sli.I)[Nl ACTIVITIES Nla-tl II JM\uary 30th from 7:30-Q: in thgg8r llarlor 

------------~-~~ 
-----~--­
The Observer
page 16 
Hoops 

continued from page 20 ing to have problems scoring." The adjustment process con­tinues tonight against a Dayton team vastly improved from last year. The Flyers are 8-6 on the year following an 86-7 4 loss to Evansville Saturday, their first conference loss in four games. Dayton has a balanced attack led by forward Lisa Green (14.0 ppg, 5.6 rpg). The Flyers, living up to their name, play an up­tempo style, pressing (11.0 steals per game) and shooting lots of threes (30-105, .286 for the year). Dayton, however, shoots only 
40.0 percent from the field, and turns the ball over 21.3 times per game. 
"Defense is the key to the game," McGraw said. "We've just got to play good defense, not give up any threes, pressure the ball, and handle their pressure, because they're going to press full-court for 40 minutes." 
This will be Notre Dame's first game in front of the student body in a month, and McGraw hopes for a large turnout to give the weary Irish a huge lift. 
-allow 1-2 weeks for delivery d -satisfaction guaranteed south 
Giants 

continued from paae 20 He found it for them when he found the ball popping out of Craig's grasp. After the recovery, Jeff Hostetler, who completed 15 of 
27 for 176 yards, hit tight end Mark Bavaro for 19 yards to the San Francisco 38 at the 2­
minute warning. 

Ottis Anderson lost 4 yards on a sweep, Hostetler hit Stephen Baker for 13 yards on the right flat and New York took time­out. 
second-largest in 49ers history -sat stunned as the dreams of "three-peat" ended. 
The Giants missed the playoffs two straight years after win­ning the Super Bowl in 1987 and were knocked out in the first round last year. 
"Just like MacArthur, we said, 'We're coming back,' and we are," Taylor had promised. 
Indeed, the Giants (15-3) be­came only the second team in a decade to win the NFC title on the road. The other was the 49ers in Chicago two years ago. 
The Giants had to do it with­out their starting quarterback, 
Three running plays gained 5 Phil Simms, who has been out yards, and Bahr, who was five weeks with a foot injury, questionable earlier in the week and they almost had to do it because of a neck injury, put without their backup when the ball inside the lower left Hostetler was knocked out corner as time ran out. briefly early in the fourth quar-
The Giants ran onto the field ter with a knee injury. 
a!id~~th~e~~~~~~~~~ii~~~~~~···T.h•e•y•k•e•p•t•o•n..te•l•li•ng..m•e.. 
is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
AP Courier 
Applicants must be have access to a car. If you are interested, contact John O'Brien at 239-5303 or stop by The Observer office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
THINK Carmelite 
• 
SCHOOLS 

• 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 


THINK 
• PARISHES 

VOCATION RETREAT • • WEEKEND-Mar. 8-10, 1991 
PRAY 

------------CONTACT----------­
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Cann., Vocation Director 1317 Frontage Road • Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 
• (708) 852-4536 • 
the rsian gulf t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 100% cotton t-shirt. sizes: medium, large, x-large send your name, quantity and size plus your check or money order 
for $10.00 plus $2.00 shipping and handling per shirt 
o v e P r o m o t i o n s 
p • o . b o x 1 9 o 4 bend, in 46634 
would you still smoke?

l...w.o•n•.....................~... 

can't," Hostetler said, "but we're going to the Super Bowl." 
It was a bitter loss for the 49ers, who were aiming for a record fifth Super Bowl cham­pionship. 
"This is a loss that will linger for a while," said 49ers coach George Seifert. 
Montana, who finished 18-for­26 for 191 yards, was knocked out of the game with 9:41 left when he was hit from behind by the Giants' Leonard Marshall. He was on the ground for sev­eral minutes and appeared dazed after being helped to the bench, where a trainer quoted him as saying, "Everything hurts." Team spoKesman Jerry Walker said later Montana would have been unable to play in the Super Bowl had the 49ers If what happened on your inside 
h.apipe~ne~d~on.yo~u.ro.ut.sid.e...~.. 
oming Events 
MONDAY, JANUARY 21 
Lecture 
REV. J. BRYAN HEHIR Counselor for Social Policy, United States Catholic Conference 
"THE ROLE OF THE JUST WAR IN THE PERSIAN GULF CRISIS11 
4:00 p.m.-Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Location change from Law Schoo 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
~~c;o;~~ 
C 1990 dove productions 

Monday, January 21, 1991 The Observer 
Bills 
continued from page 20 
no-huddle attack and the 
shotgun. 
Thomas ran over. around and 
through the befuddled Haiders 
as the Bills piled up 503 total 
yards. 
"He's a big-play and big-game 
player," Jim Kelly said of 
Thomas. "You call on him and 
he will produce." 
Thomas showed exactly why 
he led the NFL in total yardage 
with 170 yards in the opening 
half. lie finished with 138 yards 
rushing, five receptions for 61 
yards and scored the second 
touchdown on a 12-yard run, 
untouched after the Bills' line 
opened a massive hole. 
"All season, I've been saying 
one thing -our line has been 
the reason for everything we've 
done," Thomas said. "Give 
them the credit." 
The only time Thomas wasn't doing damage to the usually staunch LA defense was when Kenneth Davis was running in for scores of 1 and 3 yards. Or when James Lofton, cut by the Raiders in 1989, was catching TO passes of 13 and 8 yards from Kelly. 
"When you've got as many weapons as I do and the time to throw," said Kelly, who wound up 17-for-23 for 300 yards, "we can be awfully difficult. Nobody, including myself, in their wildest dreams ever would think 51-3." 
The Bills' other score in the opening half, when they sur­passed the record 38 points scored by Washington against the Rams in 1983, came on Darryl Talley's 27-yard inter­ception return. 
Davis also had a 1-yard TO run in the fourth quarter. 
With American flags decorat­ing the stands and banners supporting troops in the Persian Gulf waving in the light wind -weather was no factor -the 80,324 fans. a Bills record, had plenty to celebrate. The Raiders showed no signs of figuring out Buffalo's no-huddle offense and even had to call timeout just five plays into the Bills' first drive. 
"I don't think they were really prepared. We've been running the no-huddle for a long time," Thomas said. "They didn't pre· pare for it until we got deep down in their territory and they called timeout." 
It was the Bills' first champi· onship since winning the AFL title in 1965, the year before the first Super Bowl. They lost in the 1966 and 1988 confer· ence championship games. 


SUMMER PROGRAM 1991 lntersession: May 27-June 14 Summer Session: June 17-July 26 
A More than 40 regular A A short course on A Seminar tours on France offerings from the German unification and the European University's liberal arts 
culminating in a live­Community wlfh New curriculum. 
day study trip to Bertin. York University, the A A three-week French University of Texas, the language immersion 
6 Weekend excursions: University of New program. featuring 
Normandy, Champagne, Hampshire· lnterhostel, cultural walking tours Loire Valley chateaux, the United Federation ofand conversation 
sess•ons. 

and Giverny. Teachers. 
Send for our 1991 Summer Program Brochure: THE The American University of Paris AMERICAN Summer Programs U.S. Office 
UMIVIIUITY

80 East 11th Street. Suite 434 New York, New York 10003 Tel. (212) &n· 4870 Fax. (212) 475-5205 Of PAIUS 
Jeff Burgfechtel's 3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Option 1: Daytona Beach 
$179 Base Price 
+ 95 Bus Transportation $274.00 
Option II: South Padre Island 

$239 Base Price 
+ 120 Bus Transportation $359.00 
Trip Includes: 

* 
Eight Days/Seven Nights on the Daytona Beach Strip or on South Padre Island 

* 
Free pool deck parties with refreshments 

* 
All taxes and tips 


* 
Optional side excursions 


FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP: Wad., Jan. 30 Last Year 160 students went Montgomery Theater LaFortune Dl OpUon 1: 7 p.m. C.U J•nller Jer•ano Option II: 8 p.m. 1141087 
:>ponsored by Campus Marketing '"'"""''""""''......... ~""""' ,..,.. 
-
page 17 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Hapkido Club meets Tuesday, January 22 at 7:30p.m. in Hoom 219, Rockne Gym. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron x3504. 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will begin spring practices Tuesday, January 22 at 8:30 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. Beginners and advanced belts welcome. If you have any questions, call Lisa x4868 or Ron x1765. 
The Notre Dame Cycling Team will be holding an organizational meeting on Tuesday, January 22 at 7 p.m. in 
N.S.H. Room 127. If you can't make it or have any questions, call Jonathan Puskas at x3317. Anybody who is interested in riding should attend. No experience necessary! 
Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall for information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics, Friday, February 1. 
All varsity women rowers · Practice begins tonight at 5 p.m. at the ACC track. Questions, call Meg x2769 or Gerry 289-7331. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club · Mandatory meeting tonight at 8 
p.m. in Room 222 Hesburgh Library. New members welcome. For more information, call Karen x1715. 
Anyone interested in working in the Notre Dame Sports Information Office this semester as a student assistant should contact Rosemary Pietrzak or Jim Daves at 239-7516. 
The Water Polo Club will continue practice tonight at 8:30 
p.m. Please be prompt. 
NO Boxing practices have begun for the 61st Bengal Bouts. Practices are held at 3:45 p.m. every weekday in the Boxing Room. Any questions, call Norm Conley at 233-8133. 
CAMPUS 
rtsportsportsportsportsportsportsports 
SALE 
ZOo/o-50% OFF All iterns in stock 
.. including shoes, basketballs, volleyballs, soccerballs, tennis, racquetball, and squash rackets, hockey, Lacrosse, and field hockey sticks, swimming suits. 
*Team uniforms ordered in January will be 20% off Corner of Edison Rd. & S.R. 23 (Next to Tracks Records) 273-9000 

If you've set your sights on law school. there's no better !.SAT preparation than Stanley H Kaplan 
Our !.SAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analyucal Reasomng to Reading Comprehension 
Our classes are live-and lively. And you can review lessons. and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N·TAPE" lab. open da}'S. evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favor 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. SOOTH BOI> AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
2/9/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 1/21/91. 
page 18 The Observer Monday, January 21, 1991 
USC's Marinovich nailed with cocaine Roger Clemens arrested 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. (AP) draft must notify the NFL by has worked very effectively." 
in a Houston nightclub
Southern Cal's ·Todd Feb. 1. Marinovich had an erratic Marinovich, one of the nation's "I was shocked to hear this sophomore season after an im­
HOUSTON (AP) -Roger Dan Turner said the pair top college quarterbacks, was news," Southern California pressive freshmen year in 
Clemens' agent says the inci­were involved in a shouting arrested Sunday for investiga­coach Larry Smith said. "I which he led the Trojans to the 
dent that led to the arrest of match with other nightclub tion of cocaine possession. haven't talked to Todd yet, but Pac-10 title and a Rose Bowl 
the two-time Cy Young Award patrons. When off-duty Marinovich, 21, was carrying I'm trying to get a hold of him. victory over Michigan. 
winner at a Houston Officer L. Oviedo, working as about a gram of the drug when We really feel badly for Todd He completed 196 of 322 
nightclub was "an a club security guard, he was arrested at 4:15 a.m. and his family. A week ago passes for 2,423 yards and 13 
unfortunate misunder-attempted to break up the while walking down a street in Todd was suspended indefi­touchdowns last season, but 
standing." group, the brothers allegedly this coastal city 40 miles south­nitely from our football pro­had sub-par performances in 
Clemens, 28, and his 39-got into a wrestling match east of Los Angeles, police gram, but that suspension was losses to Washington, Arizona, 
year-old brother, Gary, each with the officer. spokesman Mike McDonough not related to this problem." Notre Dame and Michigan 
remained free on $2,000 "Gary pushed the officer at 
said. Marinovich was suspended for State. 
He was booked and released one week during the season for at 11:10 a.m. on his own rec­cutting class, but started 11 ofognizance pending an arraign­13 games for Southern Cal. The 
ment at Harbor Municipal Trojans went 8-4-1 and fin­
Court, McDonough said. 

ished 20th in the final
Marinovich was kicked off the Associated Press poll. 
Southern Cal team on Jan. 11 Marinovich got into a shoutingfor missing a mandatory play­match with Smith after beingers meeting and failing to reg­replaced by Shane Foley in theister for classes before the start fourth quarter of Southern Cal's of the spring semester. 
17-16 loss to Michigan State in the John Hancock Bowl.
There has been widespread Smith said that "USC has aspeculation that the sophomore very strong drug testing pro­
will enter the NFL draft. A 
gram for all of its athletes, and
player wishing to enter the 
in the time I've been here, it 
Do it out of respect for the dead. And the living. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSG:IATION 
MEMORJAL PR~RAM. 

American Heart ft Association V 
This space prov1ded as a publiC serv1ce. 
bond Sunday after being that time, and the officer had arrested for aggravated to take his attention from the assault on a police officer group," Turner said. "He at­during a Saturday morning tempted to arrest Gary disturbance at the Bayou Clemens and Roger Clemens Mama's nightclub. attempted to defend his 
The pair had a preliminary brother." court hearing Sunday in Sgt. C.J. Grysen said that as 232nd State District Court. Oviedo tried to arrest Gary, Harris County assistant Roger apparently "jumped on district attorney Henry the officer's back and choked Lawrence said if convicted of the officer." Grysen said three the third-degree felony more officers -another off­charges, the brothers face 2 duty officer and two to 10 years in prison and a uniformed patrol officers ­fine of up to $10,000. joined the fray before the 
Houston police spokesman brothers were subdued. 
Hockey Trail Blazers down Bucks, 116-112 
continued from page 20 

PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -Terry with 43 seconds remaining, by Jay Humphries, in the third 104-103 with 2:45 left. 
They should challenge for Porter scored nine points in the then sank four straight free period to take an 8 7-7 7 lead Two free throws by Kevin postseason play. If I got a final 3:14 including two game­throws to preserve Portland's entering the final quarter and Duckworth, who led the Blazers chance to speak on their clinching free throws with six fourth straight win. led 98-89 on Alvin Robertson's with 21 points, put Portland behalf, I would." seconds to play, as the Portland Danny Ainge and Cliff 8-footer with 7:28 to play. ahead for good at 105-104 with Left wing Curtis Janicke said Trail Blazers came from nine Robinson also played promi-, 2:07 to play. Ainge added a 3­the Irish would put Saturday points down in the final 7 1/2 nent roles in the final minutes The Blazers then used a 14-4 pointer with 1:36 left to make it night's loss behind them, and minutes to beat the Milwaukee in the Blazers' rally. run to catch Milwaukee, with 108-104. look toward this weekend. Bucks 116-112 Sunday night. The Bucks, playing without Porter's 3-pointer from the Mter Jack Sikma sank a free 
"We're just going to work Porter, who struggled super-sub Ricky Pierce, trailed corner giving Portland a 103-throw with 1:31 to play, Porter hard in practice (this week) and offensively for most of the by as many as 21 points early 102 lead with 3:14 to go. put Portland ahead 11 0-105 on get focused for Kent State," he game, hit a 3-pointer with 3:14 in the second quarter. But Robertson's inside basket gave a driving layup with 43 seconds said. to go, added a driving layup Milwaukee scored 41 points, 16 the Bucks their final lead at remaining.
-

-
4 
THE GULF WAR 
Aseries of evening seminars on the war and related issues 
Monday, January 21,8:00 pm. ·The Draft, Military Service and Conscientious Objection 
A Personal Account of Anti-war Dissent within the Military -David Cortright, Visiting Fellow at the Institute for International Peace Studies Legalities and Procedures ofConscientious Objection-Margaret Garvey, Conscientious Objection Counselor 
I Tuesday, January 22,7:30 pm. ·History, Culture and Human Rights Historical and Cultural Aspects of the Crisis-Rev. Dr. P. Gaffney, Professor of Anthropology and Middle East Specialist An Arab Perspective on the Gulf War and the Palestinian Question-Prof. Ghada Talhami, Lakeforest College, Illinois Human Rights Concerns-Kelly Reuba, Campus Coordinator of Amnesty International 
Wednesday, January 23, 7:30 pm. ·The GuH War: Where Do We Go From Here? I Prof. Alan Dowty, Prof. of Government and Middle East Specialist Prof. Robert Johansen, Senior Faculty Fellow of the Institute for International Peace Studies 
Thursday, January 24, 7:30 •Energy and Economic Repercussions of the War The ~ar's Effects on the U.S. Economy and World Oil Markets-Prof. Jurgen Brauer, Prof. of Economics at St. Mary's College. The History of U.S. Dependence on Oil and Alternative Energy Policies-Prof. Joe Miller, Prof. of Psychology, St. Mary's College. 
All events will be held at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Admission is free. All are welcome. 
Organized by the Gulf Crisis Action Group I Co-sponsored by the Graduate Student Union, Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for International Peace Studies 
-----------------------------------~ 
~onday, January 21, 1991 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Tuesday 
12:10 p.m. Noontalk: "Six Centuries of Great Prints," Mary Frisk, assistant curator, Snite Museum. Snite Museum of Art. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Pot Roast a Ia Mode 
Grilled Pollaek 
Cheese Havioli 
Cheese Rolls 
Saint Mary's 

French Dip Sandwich Baked Pork Cutlet w/Gravy Eggplant Parmesan Dnli Bar 
CROSSWORD 
66 Newborn's nursemaid 67 More competent 68 Fabled monster 69 Bit of information 70 Some are proper 71 Makes, as profit 7ZVarlets 73 Pick up the tab 
DOWN 
1 Hamilton's killer 
ACROSS 
1 Lyric poets 
6 Hill dwellers 10 Summer quaffs 14 Customary 15 Use an auger 16 Hayloft's 
location 17 Horned animal, 
for short 18 Where Kuwait is 19 Kazan 20 Start over 21 Alarming 23 Watering place 25 Pseudo butter 26 Secreted 29 Hot spot 31 Abstain 36 Pindaric work 
37 Where Inchon is 39 Repute 40Leave-­
(accept the status quo) 44 Tardy 45 Scornful look 46--an egg (flop) 47 Viewpoints 50 Nicholas II, e.g. 51 Grads-to-be 52 Tannish 54 Captain's record 56 Rebels against Queeg 61 Butler portrayer: 1939 65 School test 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

2Wimbledon winner: 1975 3 Devastate 4 Hamlet's people 
5 Dawdler 6 Down with: Fr. 7Leave-(be 
thorough) a Error's partner 9 Burned 
10 Fourth person 11 Melting-watch 
painter 12 The old sod 13 Hidden 
obstacle 22 Low dig it 

27 Perfect 
28 River-mouth area 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
'10\J 1-lfl..~£ 1C ADM\\ If'S SLoWt.D DOVlN 11-\t. TRAFFIC 0~ OUR ROA\). 
30 God of love 32 Impresario 
Hurok 33 Graven images 34 Marine sound 
system 35 Deuce takers 38 Stone and Iron 41 Actor Cariou 42 Get well 43 Haughty 48 Sawbuck 
SPELUNKER 

49 Like the Grand 59 Seine sights Canyon 60 Snead and 
53 Lasso Spade 
62 Cerulean55 Eva or Zsa Zsa 63 Capp's --the56 Night light 

Hyena57 Exhort 64 Formerly, 58 Small pie formerly 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

li tilk
WARTIME Afi.!LETIC. FAD5 

Hit. SC.UD· BALL 
THE LATEST CRAZ.£ SINCe" lt05TILif/ES Bf61AN IN m£ MIDDLE EAST THFIT 15 S/Jf:t.P/N(n PooLS fiCROSS T/1E NP,T/oN 15 
TJ.iE $CUD·81JU. LIK~ IT.S fR.£Df:CE55oR THE CANNON BilL~, TriG .5WIMI"'ERSLEAP Off A DtVJt-JI.n BOARD DRAWJNG1 TH£0'\-SELVt:S INTO A BALL. How£V£FI,UNLIKE TH£ CANNONi31\J..(.,wH~ GJoAL 15 TD fYlAK'E A 6i<:i1 SPLi<SH, ntl: V10iiL OF nt£ SCU{J-f3fli.-L IS 10 (11155 THE pooL £NT1RE.t...Y 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 



Irish hockey team splits with Lake Forest 
By RICH KURZ had our chances, but we came to Mike Curry, who outskated a Sports Writer up short," said Schafer. Lake Forest defender to face Junior left-wing Mike Curry the Forester goalie one-on-one. 
The Notre Dame hockey said Lake Forest's rink is well Curry got the better of the team's home-and-home series suited to their style of play. matchup, scoring the third goal with the Lake Forest Foresters "They have a really small of the night for the Irish. this past weekend proved to be rink, and a lot of small, quick The Foresters were not about a microcosm of the season to players (to take advantage of to call it a night, however. They date for the Irish. it)." said Curry, while refusing outscored Notre Dame 4-2 in 
After earning a hard-fought 7-to use that as an excuse for the the second period, to close to 5 win over the Foresters in the Irish defeat. within one goal at 5-4. friendly confines of the Joyce "They played really hard and "We were outworked (in the ACC, the Irish (11-11-1) we didn't play as hard (as on second period). That was kind traveled to Chicago where they Friday night)," said Mike Curry. of frightening," said Schafer. fell to Lake Forest 5-2 after Friday night was a different However, Mike Curry's second burying themselves in a 4-0 story, as it was Notre Dame goal of the evening and a Tim hole. The Irish are now 10-1 at which started strongly, on a Litchard score gave the Irish an home, but only 1-10-1 on the night when Coach Schafer said, insurmountable 7-4 lead, which road. "The fans saw a pretty good the Foresters closed to 7-5 on a 
"We weren't at our best and hockey game." goal with just under two min­they were," said Notre Dame The Irish took an early lead, utes left in the game. head coach Ric Schafer. "They dominating the first period by Coach Schafer was quite sat­played extremely well." controlling the puck in the Lake isfied with his team's perfor­
The Foresters went up by four Forest zone. After Dan Marvin mance Friday night. goals just six minutes into the and Lou Zadra scored to put "It was a good night. That was second period, but the Irish the Irish up 2-0. Mike Curry a good college hockey game," recovered somewhat, closing took advantage of an excellent said the coach. the gap to 4-2 on goals by Pat defensive play to notch his 12th Although disappointed by the Arendt and Matt Osiecki before goal of the season. loss Saturday night, Schafer Lake Forest scored a goal with Lake Forest advanced on a credited the Lake Forest 15 seconds left in the game. break, but Notre Dame goalie hockey club. 
"We started off poorly, but we Greg Louder made a great save 
see HOCKEY I page 18
improved, we challenged, we on the play. The puck bounced 

Sports
page 20 Monday, January 21, 1991 
Irish women's basketball defeats Marquette 91-73 
Return from the road with a 30-game MCC win streak 
By RENE FERRAN  head coach Muffet McGraw  to go up 58-43.  
Sports Writer  said. "She's such a consistent  After the Warriors took a  
person to have in the game."  timeout, they appeared to right  
After nearly three weeks away  Notre Dame shot only 42.9  themselves, scoring six straight  
from home, the 22nd-ranked  percent in the first half as they  to get within nine with 11:10  
Notre  Dame  women's  struggled to find  a shooting  remaining, but then the Irish  
basketball team return to the  groove-Karen Robinson, for  put the game away. Sparked by  
friendly confines of the Joyce  one, went 3-11 and Margaret  excellent  guard play  from  
ACC  tonight  at  7:30  p.m.  Nowlin 2-6-but the Irish still  Robinson and Sara Liebscher,  
against the Dayton Flyers.  led 39-36 at the half.  Notre Dame went on a 19-2 run  
The Irish concluded a four­ McGraw  started  Andrea  to lead 77-51 with seven min­ 
game road trip Saturday night  Alexander  over  Coquese  utes left.  
with  a  91-73  victory  over  Washington against Marquette  Robinson  recovered  her  
Marquette in Milwaukee-their  to counter the Warriors' height  shooting stroke in the second  
30th straight MCC win. The  advantage,  but  despite  half, going six-for-six to end up  
Irish overcame a poor shooting  Alexander's  six  rebounds,  with 19 points and five assists.  
effort in the first half to pull  Marquette outrebounded Notre  Liebscher  added  18, and  
away from the Warriors in their  Dame, 42-33. The freshman's  Nowlin 14. For Marquette,  
first game since losing four  performance, however, did not  Tammy Shain scored 17 points,  
players to academic ineligibility  disappoint McGraw.  and Ellen Nowak had 16 points  
Wednesday.  "We're trying to find some­ and 10 rebounds.  
Krissi Davis scored 15 of her  body  to  take  Comalita  McGraw was pleased with  
game-high 22 points in the sec­ (Haysbert)'s spot on defense,"  how the Irish compensated for  
ond half to spark the Notre  she said, "and Andrea's been  the loss of the four players.  
Dame attack. Davis has been  playing good defense in prac­ "I thought we  adjusted very  
bothered by a knee injury ag­ tice, and we needed somebody  well,"  McGraw  said.  
gravated in the DePaul game,  who could rebound, and she  "Offensively, we didn't miss a  
but while her playing time has  did a good job."  beat . . . I think Kristin Knapp  
been reduced. her importance  After Marquette pulled within  and Sherri Orlosky are going to  
to the team has not diminished.  two, 40-38, with 18:09 left in  contribute a lot on the offensive  ~  
"She's someone that we need  the game, Notre Dame went on  end, so I don't think we're go­ TheObserVer/DavidLee  
to have in the game for her scoring on the block," Irish  an 18-5 run, led by Nowlin and Davis scoring six points apiece,  see HOOPS I page 16  Irish forward Krissi Davis was a key in Notre Dame's 91-73 defeat of Marquette, leading the Irish with 22 points.  

Its a New York Super Bowl as Giants and Bills both win 
Last-second field goal ends 49ers' three-peat dreams 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -the Buffalo Bills, 51-3 con­at the New York 43. 
Lawrence Taylor promised the querors of the Los Angeles Seven plays later, from the 24, New York Giants would find a Raiders for the AFC title. The Bahr kicked the winning field 
way to finally beat the San Bills were installed as early 5-goal just inside the left upright Francisco 49ers, and he did it. point favorites. and kicked the 49ers out of the Taylor, the Giants' superstar The Giants spent most of the history books. linebacker and undisputed game trying without success to The Giants had been frustrated leader, recovered a fumble by get into the 49ers' end zone. by the 49ers, losing their last 
Roger Craig to set up Matt Thanks to Taylor, they never four regular-season games to Bahr's 42-yard field goal as had to. them, including a 7-3 loss in time expired Sunday for a 15-The turning point came with San Francisco on Dec. 3. 
13 victory that ruined the 2:36 left, second-and-four, the "I know a couple of years ago, 49ers' bid for an unprecen­49ers protecting a 13-12 lead, we got into a shootout with dented third straight Super Joe Montana out with a bruised them and lost," Taylor said last 
Bowl championship. shoulder and broken finger on week. "This year was a defen­Bahr's fifth field goal of the his throwing hand, and backup sive game and we lost. It's time game, tying a playoff record, Steve Young running the of­for the Giants to find a way to gave the Giants their second fense. As Craig ran into the win." NFC championship in five years line, Giants nose tackle Erik and sent them into next Howard poked the ball loose see GIANTS I page 16 Sunday's Super Bowl against and Taylor caught it in the air 

Bills offense sets records vs. LA 
ORCHARD PARK. N.Y. (AP) Thurman Thomas, the main -The Buffalo Bills had the weapon Sunday. no-huddle and the Los The Bills (15-3) used an Angeles Raiders had no awesome array of offensive chance. precision and defensive 
The Bills, seemingly unable power in running up the to wait to get to Tampa for most points in an AFL or NFL their first Super Bowl, didn't playoff game since the San huddle, didn't try to eat up Diego Chargers beat the the clock and didn't take one Boston Patriots 51-10 in step backward Sunday in a 1964. They overwhelmed the record-setting 51-3 rout of Raiders from the beginning, the Los Angeles Raiders for scoring a record 41 points in the AFC Championship. the first half, operating 
"The only thing that is scary almost exclusively from the about the no-huddle is that we score so quick, we leave a see BILLS I page 17 lot of time on the clock," said 








