


IIU·1992 
Sl\QUIClNIINNIA~ 
VOL. XXIV NO. 45 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer!Oominic Manzo 
Memories for sale 
A crowd of fans checks out NO memorabilia and clothing offered at a concession stand outside Notre Dame Stadium before the NO-Navy football game Saturday. NO won 38-0. 
ND left in the dark with power outage 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
Several dorms lost emergency lights during a power outage on the Notre Dame campus Friday night, creating a number of problems for hall staffs. 
The campus lost power seven or eight times throughout the afternoon and evening, accord­ing to Tony Baldini, watch engineer at the Notre Dame power plant. Electricity failed completely around 8:30 p.m.. and power company servicemen worked throughout the night to restore power completely by 6 a.m. Saturday morning. 
The outage was caused by strong winds that knocked down power lines and blew tree limbs onto electric lines along Douglas Road. Electricity from the Indiana Michigan Power Company, from which the cam­pus gets 65 to 70 percent of its electricity, was disconnected. 
Other areas in South Bend were also affected by the outages, according to Baldini. 
Most dorms tried to operate normally by adding extra staff, distributing candles and con­ducting frequent sweeps of the buildings to ensure safety and security of the residents. 
The efforts of Grace and 
Flanner Balls were hampered 
by faulty generators that left 
the buildings in complete dark­
ness until around 11 p.m., ac­
cording to David Bianchi, assis­
tant rector of Grace. 
BecaUS(l of the darkness and 
the powerless elevators, doors 
were locked around 9:30 p.m., 
and guests were restricted on 
the upper floors "because other 
problems could arise," Bianchi 
said. Parietals remained at 2 
a.m. 
Flanner llall. however, moved parietals to midnight as a result of "safety and security concerns," according to Tim ·Schorn, assistant rector. The dorm had one theft report and 
a false fire alarm, he added. 
Four or five students were 
stuck in the elevators of 
Flanner for 15 to 20 minutes, 
Schorn said. 
The faulty generators in 
Grace and Flanner were re­
paired by power plant workers 
by 11 p.m., according to 
Bianchi and Schorn. 
Several other dorms moved 
parietals to midnight out of a 
concern for the safety of its 
residents. including Dillon, 
Lyons, and Morrissey. The staff 
of Morrissey said that they 
wanted to ensure that "people 
weren't mingling around in a 
completely dark building," said 
see BLACKOUT/ page 4 

Honor Code debated as January renewal approaches 
Editor's note: The following is the first ofa two-part series on the University's Academiclflt llonor code. 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
The first freshman to refuse to sign the University's Academic Code of Honor pledge said many students sign it "uneonsciously," without a clear understanding of its terms. 
June Morris (not her real 
name) is not trying to make a "big political statement" by not signing the code agreement, she said, but disagrees with the code. 
"They always tell you 'read the line print.' Well, not only should you read it, you should understand it," she commented at an open forum the Academic Code of Honor Committee held last month to get student opin­ion on the honor code. Morris was one of two students attend­ing. 
Grant to ND/SMC aids postdoctorate program 
By NICOLE MCGRATH News Writer 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are among 26 colleges across the nation benefiting from a $56H,OOO grant from the Lily Endowment which will fund a program d(~signed to prepare postdoctorate students for teaching at religious universi­ties. 
Keith Egan, Saint Mary's chair of religious studies, and Cail Mandell. SMC chair of hu­manistic studies. represented the college at a conference on the program at Valparaiso University on Oct. 11-13. Theology Professors Lawrence Cunningham and Father Thomas O'Meara represented ND. 
The Lily Fellows Program will provide young postdoctor­ate students with a setting in which they could prepare for becoming professors at a relt­gious institution. 
"Who's going to be the next generation committed to pass­ing on the values?" asked Cunningham. The program was designed to help attract stu­dents to religiously-oriented colleges in order to carry on these values, he said. 
The three goals of the pro­gram are: 
•To 
set up a network of col­leges and universities across the nation interested in attract­ing qualified and dedicated stu­dents, said Egan; 

•To 
create a two-year post­doctoral fellowships for stu­dents wishing to teach at reli­gious universities, said Egan. "Iii an age of careerism...we hope to show teaching as a vo­cation, not merely a job." According to Egan, the two­year program would test and 


see LILY I page 6 


• Admission essay on ethics proposed I page 4 
Members of the committee will present an evaluation of the honor code to the Academic Council before the Council meets in February to review the code. Established in January of 1988, the honor code's trial pe­riod runs out in January, and the Council will decide this year whether to renew it. 
An Academic Code of Honor subcommittee is reviewing Morris' case, according to Academic Code of Honor Committee Chair John Coffey. 
Some students are so oblivi­ous to the code that they claim they never signed the pledge, 
Homecoming at Notre Dame This classic car transports Father Edmund Joyce, former NO presi­dent, down Notre Dame Avenue during Friday's Homecoming Parade. Student-built floats were also included in the parade's festivities. Prizes were awarded to the best entries. 
Morris said. One reason is that students first sign it when they receive their acceptance to the University, and are too excited to fully consider what they are signing, she said. Morris sug­gested that students be intro­duced to the code in the univer­sity's application for admission. 
Professors also lack a firm grasp on the pledge's meaning, Morris claimed. She cited an episode in which a foreign lan­guage professor told students not to ask classmates for aid 
see HONOR! page 4 

SMCto begin phonathon 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Phones will be ringing off the hook for almost two weeks as Saint Mary's student volunteers contact alumnae and friends of the College to help raise funds to supplement the operating budget. 
The phonathon is designed to bring additional revenue to the College by having students call alumnae to ask for donations, said Sarah Peterek, director of annual giving. 
"It's unrestricted money raised by the college to support things like scholarships, finan­cial aid, and library acquisi­tions," she said. The money raised will be added to the total goal of money collected from donations to the college this 
see PHONE I page 4 


The Observer/Sean Farnan 

page2 Monday, November 4, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The 'Cremation of Sam McGee'­ND style 
As winter's dark days set------­
in, all ye harken to my grim tale of freshman year... 
Notre Dame's trails have their secret tails that would make your blood run cold. The South Bend nights have seen queer Jake Frost sights, but the queerest Illustrations they ever did see was that Editor dreadful night when I------­cremated my roommate McGee. 
Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee, where the cotton blooms and blows. Why he left his home in the South to roam 'round the Dome, God only knows. 
He was always cold, but that Dome of Gold seemed to hold him like a spell though he'd often say in his homely way, that he'd sooner live in Hell. 
And one night as we lay packed tight in our blankets while it did snow, while outside the heavens scowled and some Freshmen howled in woe, he turns to me, and "'Cap," says he, "I'll cash in this semester, I guess. And if I do, I'm asking that you won't refuse my last request." 
Well, he looked so low that I couldn't say no, so he says with a sort of moan, "It's this cursed cold, its got right hold 'till I'm chilled clean through to the bone. 
Yet t'ain't being dead, its my awful dread of the icy grave that pains, so I want you to swear that foul or fair, you'll cremate my last remains." 
Well a pal's last need is a thing to heed, so I swore I would not fail. 
And we started on to wade our way from class to class at the streak of dawn, but God he ghastly pail and he grouched on his way and raved all day, of his home in Tennessee. 
And by nightfall, a corpse was all that was left of Sam McGee. 
I dragged his corpse (which was rather large) to the dining hall, to a cook called Marge. The dining hall door was covered in ice, and I had to knock twice before Marge, with her shovin' opened it up, and entering I saw an oven. 
Well I looked at it, and thought a bit, and looked at my frozen chum. Then here said I, with a sudden cry, lies my crematorium! The furnace roared, the flames just soared, such a blaze you seldom see; Then I burrowed a hole in the glowing coals, and I stuffed in Sam McGee. Then I took a hike for I didn't like to hear him sizzle so, 
I do not know how long in the snow I wres­tled with grizzly fear, but the stars came out and danced about ere again I ventured near. 
I was sick with dread, but I bravely said, I'll just take a peep inside. I guess he's cooked, and it's time I looked, then the door I opened wide ... 
And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm in the heart of the furnace roar and he wore a smile you could see a mile, and he sai"d, "Please close that door." 
"It's fine in here, but I greatly fear, you'll let in the cold aild storm. Since I left Plumtree down in Tennessee and came here to old N.D., it's the first time that I've been warm." 
Needless to say, I didn't eat in the dining hall the next day. 
This is an adaptation of a poem written by Robert Service called "The Cremation of Sam McGee." 
Today's Staff 
Sports Graphics Dave McMahon Brendan Regan 
Elizabeth Duane Production News Michelle Wood Pete Loftus Lisa Bourdon Kelly Lynch Accent Business Jay Colucci Rich Riley Katie Eustermann Colle~n Gannon Viewpoint Photography Rch Riley John Rock Jessica Troha' 1gb 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
"Scarlett" will be a TV mjnjserjes 
•NEW YORK -Tomorrow is still another day for Rhett and Scarlett, on the silver screen. "Scarlett," the best­selling sequel to "Gone With the Wind," will appear instead on CBS as a television miniseries in 1993. The independent producer and distributor purchased the rights to the novel in association with the network and two European distributors. "A feature movie would be head on with 'Gone with the Wind.' I don't think that's possible. That would be sacrilegious. If I was the maker of 'Gone With the Wind,' and 'Scarlett,' the movie, was coming, I would show 'Gone With the Wind' the week before and wipe them out,"said Halmi, chairman for RHI Entertainment Inc. Halmi said Sunday he hoped the miniseries would air during the spring or fall sweeps of 1993. He declined Sunday to offer any preferences for who would star in the miniseries. 
CAMPUS 

Librar~ talk show debutes on WSND 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
S.A.D.D. MEETING will be held tonight at 6:45 pm in the Student Health Center Dining Room. It will be brief but important. New members are welcome. 

•WOMEN 
UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE meeting, at 8 pm, today at the esc. All are welcome. 


MARKET UPDATE 

fORECAST: 
Moatly cloudy today. High in the upper 20a. P•tly cloudy tonight with Iowa in the upper teens. TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
A~  ~  48  
AUanta  51  37  
Berlin  59  46  
Boston  60  52  
Chicago  24  13  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  43  25  
Denver  44  04  
Detroit  30  22  
Honolulu  88  72  
Houston  47  38  
Indianapolis  28  20  
London  54  46  
Los Angeles  87  54  
Madrid  73  50  
Mami Beach  84  77  
New Orleans  56  48  
New York  56  45  
Paris  57  54  
Philadelphia  54  42  
Rome  66  41  
St. Louis  28  16  
San Francisco  74  50  
Seattle  50  42  
South Bend  24  15  
Tokyo  64  54  
Washington, D.C.54  40  

Following programs will focus on the University Libraries' role in contemporary issues in information. Topics for discussion will include: censorship, ethics of information, the preservation crisis, friends' groups, information dissemination, library and information resources for senior citizens, government documents, special collections and Indiana information networks. 
•NOTRE AME, lnd.-Shenanigans, the University of Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble, will present a free anniversary concert Nov. 8 at 9 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center information desk. Shenanigans is celebrating ten years of performing at Notre Dame. The concert will include a variety of recent Broadway hits and older show tunes performed by singers, dancers, and musicians. 
Winners of float contest announced 
•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-The Sesquicentennial Student Activities Committee would life to congratulate the winners of the Homecoming float competition. First Place was awarded to Farley and Dillon, second place to Walsh and Cavanaugh, and third place to Breen-Phillips and Alumni. Prizes will be awarded by Katie Pamenter and Stephanie Ferry at the November 12 Hall Presidents Council Meeting by. 

•FEELING 
UNDER PRESSURE? Upcoming exams and papers can increase you anxiety and stress levels. COUNSELINE, an audiotape service of the University Counseling Center, offer these tapes: #30-"Anxiety and possible ways to cope with it," #37-"Relaxation Exercise," and #38-"Coping with Stress," as a way to help you relieve this pressure. Call 239-7993 and ask for the above tape numbers. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1839: The first Opium War between China and Britain erupted as two British frigates and a fleet of war tunks clashed off the Chinese coast. 

• 
In 1903: Panama proclaimed its independence from Colombia. 

• 
In 1957: The Soviet Union launched Sp~tnik ll, the second man-made satellite, into orbit, carrying a dog named Laika. 

• 
Five years ago: Ash-Shiraa, a pro-Syrian Lebanese magazine, first broke the story of U.S. arms sales to Iran, a revelation that would escalate into the Iran-Contra affair. 




Rowing for donations TheObselvertRameiBelanger 
Junior Mike Kovatch demonstrates rowing on an ergometer Friday in front of the Hammes Bookstore. The NO Rowing Club spon­sored this event to earn money for their self-funded organization. 
Club Column 
NOVEMBER 4, 1991 
l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate dubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesdays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) ND Right to Life will have a general meeting on Thursday, Nov. 7 at 8 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone interested is welcome to aHend. 
4) S.A.D.D. will have a meeting on Nov. 4 at 6:45 p.m. in the Student Health Center Dining Room. It will be brief, but important. New members are welcome. 
S) Sailing Club members are requested to aHend on Monday, Nov. 4 at 7 
p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy to discuss the concession stand and a possible trip to the Orange Bowl regatta in Miami. 
6) Please Note: Due to an error, the phone number of CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) in the Women's Group on Campus directory which is currenrly being distributed to all women in the ND community is incorrect. The appropriate number to call for information on CARE is 283­2926. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 

WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there areother schools. But why settle? Kaplan prepcourses help 
, students raise theirscores and theirchances of beingadmitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped studentsscore higher' 

CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
17 1 7 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Monday, Novmber 4, 1991 The Observer page 3 



Faculty: Institutes need structure 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
The Notre Dame Faculty Senate would like to set up more specific guidelines for governance of NO academic in­stitutes, such as the Peace Institute. and to allow faculty associates more input into the process of appointing new se­nior personnel, according to the administrative affairs rep­resentative of the Senate. 
Apparently there are not any real guidelines for governing the institutes because they are out of the college system, so members of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, in particular, have become accustomed to making their own decisions dRmocraticaliy, said Anand Pillay, professor of mathemat­ics. 
A "misunderstanding" has developed between the Peace Institute and the administra­tion, said Pillay. 
The problem came to light last year when Peace Institute 
Austrian to give a lecture on Mozart 
Special to The Observer 
Eva Badurs-Skoda, a musi­cologist from Vienna, Austria, will speak on "The Fortepiano at the Time of Mozart: Some New Discoveries" Tuesday, Nov. 5, at 8 p.m. at Crowley Hall at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lecture, sponsored by the University's music department, is free and open to the public. 
During the current Mozart anniversary year, Badura­Skoda is lecturing at various universities in the U.S. on topics related to Mozart's piano and the history of the fortepiano {the first piano _invented). 
She includes examples of the sounds from important eigh­
fir~:~~~,;;;;;;;;iit~~~~.,~ guest Ieeturer. 
I~TERHALL BASKETBALL 

(MEN AND WOMEN) GRAD/FACULTY/STAFF BASKETBALL 
(MEN AND WOMEN) CLUB BASKETBALL CAMPUS CO-ED WALLYBALL I~TERHALL HOCKEY GRAD/FACULTY/STAFF HOCKEY 
DEADLINE -NOVEMBER 6 
teenth-century pianos, such as the 1720 Cristofori in New York's Metropolitan Museum and the original Anton Walker fortepiano in Vienna. 
Badura-Skoda studied musi­cology, philosophy, and art his­tory at the Universities of Heidelberg, Innsbruck and Vienna, receiving her Ph.D. in 1953. 
Her first publication was Interpreting Mozart on the Keyboard, written with Paul Badura-Skoda in 1957. 
In 1962-63 she instructed seminars at Salzburg's International Summer Academy Mozarteum until moving to the University of Wisconsin at Director Jack Gilligan retired and faculty associates in the in­stitute set up a committee to decide what they wanted in re­placement. "They wanted to do this in a democratic kind of fashion," said Pillay. 
The institute, begun by Father Hesburgh. has gained a national reputation and mem­bers of the Peace Institute felt that the search should be na­tional in scope and that they would have some input, accord­ing to Pillay. 
Last April, while they were still discussing the issue, University Provost Timothy O'Meara appointed John Attanasio, NO Law professor, to the position, "out of the blue without consulting anybody," said Pillay. 
"The faculty associates of the Peace Institute have nothing against Attanasio but are upset with the way it {the appoint­ment) was done," said Pillay. The Peace Institute had devel­oped democratic operations unusual for this University. The other large NO institutes, the Kellogg Institute and the 
Correction 
Madison as a guest professor and later as a tenured profes­sor of musicology. 
She has since taught at vari­ous universities in the U.S., Canada, and Germany. 
After active participation at several congresses of the International Musicology Society, she traveled as a guest lecturer in more than 12 coun­tries and appeared at the Hussian Academy of Science in Moscow and the Hungarian Academy of Science in Budapest. 
She has published more than 100 articles and contributed to works ranging from musical encyclopedias to a television documentary on the history of the hammerklavier. She also edited and completed the newly discovered operetta "Die Heisende Ceres" by .Joseph Haydn. 
In 1986 Badura-Skoda re­ceived the Honorary Cross Litteris et Arbitus award from the Austrian government. She began a musicological research project in 1989 and currently travels bntween Europe and the 
U.S. working as a freelancing scholar. visiting professor, and Medieval Institute do not have the same level of participation, according to Pillay. 
The section on institutes in the faculty manual says only that thn director can be ap­pointed by the President. There are no other definitive rules of governance. In reaction to this the Faeulty Senate would like to set up more specific guidelines for the institutes, according to Pillay. 
They would also suggest that "associate faculty members who have certain expertise con­tribute to any process of hiring senior personnel," said Pillay. 
lie said "The Administration did not behave. fairly and pro­fessionally. They did not give the faculty associates the pro­fessional respect which they expected. They were just to­tally ignored." 
"It was a conflict between ex­pectations and reality," said Pillay. He has been informed that this conflict has led to the lowering of moral on all levels even among the graduate stu­dents and students. 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH tram IJQ4 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,om 1128 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
STEAMBOAT "om 122 
2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH "om$f22 
7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ,,om 11J6 
7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND "om lffJ 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ''"m$f28 
PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
11th Annual 
Celebration! 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 





1·800·321·5911 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
HOURS: MON·FRI 8:00·5:30 SAT 8:00·3:0 
"""l.Juuintments if desi 272-6722 
In a story in Friday's Ob­server, the name of Peter Pranica, director of alumni community service programs, was spelled incorrectly. The Observer regrets the error. 
---~----------------­

--~-~-----~---~ 
page 4 The Observer Monday, November 4, 1991 



Honor 

Admission essay on ethics is requested 
continued from page 1 

with simple grammar on homework assignments, be­cause the honor code prohib­ited it. 
"I think that really hindered learning," Morris said, adding that it seems pointless to come to a university with high aca­demic standards if students do not have the opportunity to learn from each other. 
Confusion over proctoring is prevalent, Morris said. According to the code, "the in­structor shall assume the hon­esty of all students and shall not act as a proctor during the examination." 
But some professors walk the classroom during tests, under the guise of "resource people," to make sure students do not cheat, Morris said."As long as faculty and students don't understand what it says, no matter what it says, it's not going to work," Morris said. 
Although Morris said she fa­vors eliminating the honor code, if the code is to stay, she said, mandatory meetings for freshmen should "spell out" the code's terms. "Then ignorance is not an excuse," she said. 
But the very premise of the 


Phone 
continued from page 1 
year. 

The phonathon will be held Monday through Thursday, to­day through Nov. 14. 
Peterek said the Alumnae Association's goal for the 1991­92 school year is $1.4 million. They hope the fall phonathon will raise $60,000. 
The phonathon depends on student volunteers to make the calls, Peterek said. Each volun­teer will give two hours of her time, either from 6 to 8 p.m. or 8 to 10 p.m. 
The students given a 10­minute training session. They will be provided with a script and a list of numbers to call, she said. 
Carrie Cummins, president of the Student Alumnae Association, stressed the im­portance volunteering. 
"We're really encouraging people to participate because it's so important," she said. "It has a direct impact on tuition for the following year." 
Peterek said that this year the volunteers will be divided up into major and academic inter­est groups. These groups will call graduates who majored in their field of study. 
"For example, the Math Club will call former math majors to see how they're doing now, to see how Saint Mary's has helped them get where they are today," she said. 
Cummins s'aid that this will give the students and alumnae more of a common ground on which to talk. 
"The students will be able to benefit from this information," she said. "They'll be able to find out where alumnae in their fields are now. They (alumnae) know the College-they're very interested. It isn't as intimidat­ing as it seems to be." 
There are other incentives for volunteering, Peterek said. Each volunteer will be entered in a nightly drawing for prizes that include coupons for local restaurants, free pizza, and two free airline tickets from the Travelmore travel agency. 
The volunteers will also be provided free food each night and one free 5-minute phone for volunteering, she added. 
Peterek said more workers are always welcome. 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
Associate News Editor 

The Academic Code of Honor Committee has requested that an essay question relating to "ethical decisions" appear on Notre Dame applications for admission next year, according to Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney. 
The essay "would not be an opinion of an honor code," Rooney said, but would probe for values related to those the code espouses. 
The proposal is still being discussed by the Department of Admissions, Rooney said, and the question has not been 
pledge is faulty, according to Morris, who considers it essen­tially a promise not to cheat. "Cheating is wrong whether you sign this or not," she said. "If a student is going to cheat, he'll still sign the pledge." 
The code is also incomplete, Morris said, since it does not apply to social aspects of University life. "If you're to use formulated. He refused tO speculate how the committee might want the essay to be used in the evaluation of a student. 
"The committee simply asked us to consider this, and we're considering it," he said. 
An honor committee member first approached Rooney last May with the request for such a question, he said, and the refusal by a freshman to sign the Code of Honor pledge this year is unrelated to the request. 
The department will probably decide at its annual evaluation of the application in spring whether to include such a question, Rooney said. 
an honor code, then you shouldn't neglect everyday life. .. as it does," she said. 
Professors should be permit­ted to choose whether to send students before the Honesty Committee when code violations occur, Morris said, claiming that this is the policy in practice, if not in writing. Under the code, professors are obligated to report any violation, and the Honesty Committee establishes guilt and determines disciplinary action. 
Professors should have the opportunity to confront a ~tu­dent, and if the student admits to the code violation, the pro­fessor should determine the consequences, according to Morris. Her concern is not only for the autonomy of the profes­sor, but the dignity of the stu­dent. "To bring someone before a group of peers to have them say 'I cheated' is cruel," she said. 
Coffey commented that stu­dents on the committee are there to balance it. He added that professors cannot desig­nate punishments because they "do not have the right to forgive you on behalf of the university," an idea expressed in an essay in the honor code booklet. 
Another Honor Committee member, Jay Stone, said per­mitting professors to decide punishments would eliminate the check and balance in the system. 
Morris refused to speculate what disciplinary actions she would accept before giving in and signing the pledge, and said only that she would sign it "only if they give me good rea­son to." 
"I doubt they're going to ex­pel me over this," she added. 
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMPANY; ASI( FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 


Blackout 
continued from page 1 

Jared des Rosiers, assistant rector. 
Both Morrissey and Lyons halls discovered that emergency lights burned out around 10:30 p.m. Although neither dorm reported security incidents, several individuals 
bumped into fire doors in the halls and one person fell down a flight of stairs in Morrissey, according to Father Joe Ross, rector. 
Rex Rakow, director of Security, said that there were no major security problems re­sulting from the power outage. Security patrols were stepped up, and the fire department in­vestigated a number of fire alarms around campus. 
If you see news happening Call 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 



yo
u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the futu1·e, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in ti-e ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a fmancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LEITER-PERFECT. 
TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional financial strength, superior investment performance, and low expenses. With its guaranteed rate of retum and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is one of less than ten companies, out of 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M 

2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONESHOULDKNO~ 
For further gmwth potential and diversi­f'u:-ation, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
,-----------­
I  SEND NOW FORA FREE  
RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, 
I  including a Sp(t'l·a/ Rl'port on Tit\ A investments.  
I  Mad 1his nlllpon 1o: TIAA-CREI-; Depl. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call  
I  I 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016.  
I  .\',,n,,· (Pll'.:lst.' prinl)  
I  
,!t)rJr,•.o;o  
1  
I  ('rt.v  
J  ln.o-htuft,'ll (Full name)  
II  n,,,.  
I  1'/.-1.1-c'R/·,'F Parltctf'dlll  
OJ;..•.ON,,  


CN 

Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page 5 


Notre Dame-Xavier project looks at housing services 
By ANNMARIE ZELL News Writer 
Notre I>1tnw stud1n1ts in Prol'nssor Martin Saiz's urban politics class and studPnts from XaviN University (La.) reported Friday on a current joint projeet to evaluate tlw nxtnnt to which thn National !lousing Snrvice, a community dnvelopment organization, addresses loeal problems in thHir respt~ctive eornmuni tins. 
XaviPr and ND students re­ported on tlw progrnss of their projects in a colloquium last Friday. Following their rPports, two panelists, Charles Prejean, visiting professor in political science, and .Jennifer Warlick. Associate Dean, College of Arts and Letters, associate professor of economics, assessed the student's progress as well as suggesting possible venues for the eontinuation of the project. 
The ND students are re­,'iearching the Northeast neigh­borhood of South Bend, whieh has as its borders Napolean St., Madison Ave., the St. .Joseph river, and Twyckingham St.. The Xavier students are studying the "freret" area of New Orleans. 
The loeal problems the stu­dents reported on included housing, education, ecOI1omic development, public safety, and soda! problems of their respec­tive eommunities. The ND stu­dents who gave presentations ineluded Kurt Gerdenich, Stephen Petros, Cara Brannigan, Heather Kern and .Jorge Vera. Todd Vieian and Scott Aubry are also team re­search leaders. The Xavier students who gave presenta­tions were Holly Haydel, Keith Pittman, Steven .Jupiter and Alan Hanson. 
In response to the student re­ports, Charles Prejean, a visit-

U.S. Court hearings to begin on Guam's abortion law 
IIONOI.UI.U (APl-Guam's anti-ahortion law. ruled uncon­stitutional soon after it went into nffnet 18 months ago, moves a step doser this week as a 1:ontnnder in rpversing the 
U.S. Supmme Court's 1973 de­cision IPgalizing abortion. 
Tlw IJth U.S. Clreuit Court of Appnals begins hearings Monday on the Pacific island's law, whieh would virtually ban abortions them. But regardless ol' tlw outeorne, its decision is hound for the nation's highest 
court, lawyers on both sides say. 
That keeps the ease on the fast track with similar laws in Pennsylvania and Louisiana to­ward an expected challenge of the landmark Hoe vs. Wade ruling. 
The Guam law, which was in effect for four days before an injunction blocked it on March 23, 1990, made a felony of per­forming virtually all abortions, except those to preserve a mother's health or life. 
The law also made it a mis­demeanor to have an abortion or to ask or advise a woman to have one. 
Guam Gov. Joseph Ada dropped all but the felony part in his appeal of an August 1990 ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Alex Munson that the law violated constitutional rights to privacy and free speech. 
Attorneys for Guam, an island 3,700 miles west of Hawaii with a largely Catholic population of 
tp=================:==========================================:::ji:tthe law written by her mother,
II Guam Sen. Elizabeth Arriola. 
Seniors ofAll Majors Are Invited 
· 
P

to a resentatwn on 
Opportunities in Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 University Club, Main Lounge 7:00P.M. 
Representatives ofMorgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
The Investment Banking Industry Opportunities in the Financidl Analyst Program 
fili.:: _,-"-~ ,-·:·· _[lefreshments Provided 
>r•·# ,.• _,_-. ,.~(tr_l., 
·Contact the l!niversity ofNotre Dame Career and Placement Services Center for additional information 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
Incorporated 
ing professor-in political science, received the impression that the N.li.S. was a good external resource aeting upon the eommunity. However, he warned the students not to forget "the people: their innova­tiveness and creativity" in the solution of eommunity prob­lems . 
'"fhe involvement of the peo­ple is essential" in solving these problems, stressed Prejean. "I am not blaming the people for their problems," he clarified. 
Warlick, the second panelist, praised the students' efforts as "an excellent beginning." She suggested that the students eontinue their projeet from a comparative perspective. She noted that the students from Xavier and ND are evaluating two distinct communities with many of the same social prob­lems to differing degrees. 
A eommon factor for the two communities according to Warlick was N.II.S., and she recommended the students di­rect the crux of their efforts in the comparative evaluation of the N.H. S. Warlick urged the students to eonsider the goal of 
N.H.S. when making their eval­uation. 
Foreign diplomats racking up big time parking tickets 
WASHINGTON (AP) Diplomats for some of the world's wealthiest countries routinely roll up mammoth parking fines in Washington. then thumb their noses at the city when it tries to collect. 
The Soviet Union, which is seeking aid from the United States, is by far the leader on the list -accounting for more than $3.2 million out of a total of nearly $7 million in unpaid parking tickets. 
But the list of diplomatic deadbeats also indudes wealthy oil states aided by the United States during the Persian Gulf War, such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. 
Israel and Egypt, the two largest beneficiaries of U.S. foreign aid, are on the list. Even the Vatican owes $90. 
Efforts to encourage volun­tary payment have fallen short, and a congressman is now threatening to cut off foreign aid to eountriPs that fail to settle their local debts. 
Hep. David Obey, D-Wis., in­serted the warning in a stopgap spending bill Congress passed two weeks ago, a mPasure that extends foreign aid spending through next March. 
"Obviously foreign aid is not very popular these days," said Obey, rnferring to the over­whelming defeat of an aid mea­sure in the House last week. "So for these turkeys not to bP paying their parking tickets is not going to endear them to Congress or the taxpayers. We ought to pull their chain on it." 
The roll of seo111aws turns up countries that the United States annually pays millions for the rights to maintain military bases: Turkey, Greece, Portugal and the Philippines. It also en­compasses countries emerging from communist rule and now seeking U.S. aid, sueh as Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Homania and Bulgaria. 
about 133,000, contend the law stays within modifications made to a woman's right to choose since the 1973 ruling. 
"It's (the plaintiffs') burden to show this law cannot be con­stitutionally applied in any cir­cumstance," said Paul Linton, attorney for the Chicago-based anti-abortion group Americans United for Life. 
The Supreme Court acknowl­edged a state's compelling in­terest in a fetus during the en­tire pregnancy, not just defined terms ofviability, in its 1989 ruling on Webster v. Heproductive Health Services, Linton said .. 
"There's no longer a (high court) majority that says the right to choose is fundamental in all circumstances," he said. 
Simon Heller, staff eounsel for the American Civil Liberties Union's Heproductive Freedom Project, disagreed. lie is lead­ing the challenge with attorney Anita Arriola, who is fighting 
"None of the opinions of the court said Roe v. Wade was overruled or that the standard 
of review was changed," Heller said. "Justices in Webster seri­ously grappled with the issue, but they didn't overrule Hoe." 
Among other constitutional rights the law violates is that of religious freedom, Heller said, noting that Guam's Homan Catholic Archbishop Anthony Apuron threatened to excom­municate legislators opposing the law. 
"Guam says it's justified be­cause Catholieism is so en­trenched (that) it's custom," Heller said. "I've never heard such a strong admission that 
religion  was the· purpose of a  
law."  
Ada's  lawyers.  question  

whether territorial law extends such rights under the U.S. COUf#tlJl~on ~Guam citizens. 
Coalfttfll~ ~d not explieitly extend aboi1ion rights in 1968 amendments to the 1950 Organic Act of Guam, the terri­tory's governing doeument, said Arnold Leibowitz, a Washington attorney specializing in territorial law. 

page 6 The Observer Monday, November 4, 1991 





Appointments to ND development positions made 
Special to The Observer 

served as director of deve1-Dame's president, Rev. Edward opment for Archbishop Hoban A. Malloy, in recognition of his 
Daniel Reagan has been ap­High School in Akron and in development work. pointed director of development Cleveland as a territory sales Before joining the Notre at the University of Notre Dame manager for the Carnation Dame staff. Morrissey was di­effective November 15, Company. rector of development for the succeeding Joseph Sandman, Reagan's wife. Margot, is a Loyola Law School of Loyola who has resigned to become 1977 graduate of Saint Mary's Marymount University in Los vice president for university re­College and in 1987 was gradu­Angeles. lations and advancement at ated from the Notre Dame Law Xavier University in Cincinnati. School. The Reagans have four The Santa Barbara native 
children and reside in South spent a total of 10 years in a At the same time, David Bend, Ind. succession of alumni and devel­Morrissey. director of Notre opment positions with Loyola
David Morrissey 
Dame's Los Angeles regional Morrissey's new responsibili­Marymount. Earlier, he had development office since 1980, ties reflect Notre Dame's ex­served four years in the U.S. Air
gifts to the University. Society in fiscal '91 enrolled
has been given the additional panding internationalization Force as a missile launch
During Reagan's tenure. the more than 600 new members
responsibilities of associate di­and will include increased de­officer and instructor.
Annual Fund has achieved and raised a record $4.8 mil­
rector of development. velopment, activities in the
seven consecutive years of lion. 
Pacific Rim. Morrissey was graduated
record results, both in number Also under Reagan's direc­
Reagan, a 1976 graduate of The longest-serving of Notre from Loyola University of Los
and value of gifts. In fiscal 1991 tion, the Fund and the Sorin
the University, has been direc­Dame's six regional develop­Angeles in 1964 and earned an
the Fund for the first time Society have received five na­
tor of Notre Dame's Annual ment directors, he will continue M.B.A. from the University of
exceeded $11 million in gifts tional awards for program im­
Fund since joining the develop­to be headquartered in Los Southern California in 1966. 
and placed among the most provements and sustained ex­
ment staff in 1984. Angeles and oversee develop­Two of Morrissey's four chil­
successful in the nation. cellence from the Council for
In that role, he also has ment activities in Alaska, dren, Kevin and Kimberly. are
the Advancement and Support
served as executive director of Arizona, California, Hawaii. Notre Dame graduates.
Its $11.2-million total for the of Education (CASE).
the University's Edward Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Daughter Colleen is currently a
year came from a record Before joining the Notre
Frederick Sorin Society, named Oregon, Utah and Washington, senior at the University and son
48,000 gifts at a time when Dame staff, Reagan was asso­
for Notre Dame's founder and as well as western Canada. Dennis is a junior. 
many institutions were record­ciate director of development at
composed of benefactors who Morrissey and his wife,
ing declines in giving as a result the University of Akron. Earlier,
contribute a minimum of Morrissey this year received a Bonnie, reside in Northridge,
of the recession. The Sorin the Lorain, Ohio, native had
$1,000 annually in unrestricted special award from Notre Calif. 
Wofford faces Thornburgh in 'tossup' for Pa. Senator 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) -Dame professor who has Thornburgh campaigned with former two-term Pennsylvania would be too costly and would Democrat Harris Wofford and grabbed most of the state's state Attorney General Ernie governor and U.S. attorney deny people their choice of doc­Republican Dick Thornburgh newspaper endorsements, Preate and U.S. Sen. Arlen general. tors. campaigned across the state completed a marathon 800-mile Specter, R-Pa. At a stop in Wofford grabbed the momen­One of Thornburgh's latest Sunday in hopes of swaying un­tour by van. He painted over Philadelphia near an aban­tum with a simple message that ads says Wofford's proposal for decided voters in the final days graffiti with youth corps doned apartment complex, he wanted to fight Washington government-run insurance is of their neck-and-neck race for volunteers in Philadelphia, Thornburgh said he favors ex­and support national health in­like the system in Canada, the U.S. Senate. milked a cow in Lebanon panding federal programs to surance, middle-income tax where he says "people are 
Independent polls last week County. bagged groceries in reclaim blighted neighbor­cuts and trade policies that forced to wait in line for showed the race a tossup, but Scranton and bowled in hoods. protect American jobs. · surgery." 10 to 15 percent of those sur­Altoona. At a firehouse rally outside "It's all based on a positive Thornburgh. 59, last week veyed said they hadn't decided Wofford said he made the Reading, Thornburgh appealed message," said Paul Begala, proposed a 14-point plan of in­who to vote for in Tuesday's exhausting tour to show he'd for party members to bring out Wofford's campaign manager. centives, tax credits and other special election. work hard in Washington. every possible voter. "All the movement's our way steps to expand health care 
The two are vying for the seat "It is time for a senator to "It's doubly important to get and it will all come home on coverage and limit costs. of the late Sen. John Heinz, show this kind of all-out energy out the vote this year to help Election Day." One of Wofford's new ads killed when his airplane and action and commitment to this ticket push it over the top," Thornburgh. who says he points out his background as an collided with a helicopter in do something at home," he said. he said. miscalculated the impact of Army veteran. Notre Dame April. Gov. Robert Casey ''I'm going to be the most active Wofford, 65, who has never what he calls Wofford's "glib professor, adviser to President appointed Wofford as an messenger that you've ever run for office, trailed by 40 and simplistic" message about John F. Kennedy, co-founder of interim senator. seen. My opponent is not a man points at the start of the cam­national health insurance, has the Peace Corps and president 
Wofford, a former Notre of action." paign against Thornburgh, a countered that Wofford's plan of two universities. 
16599 Cleveland Rd. Granger, IN 
219-272-3672 

Join Chl-chl's lor Monday Night Football and be treated with a lree taco bar with the purchase ol a drink. Also don't miss your chance to compete nationwide in OBI 
~>~ ! 
DISMAS HOUSE: 
~ 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, dismas house offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training 
xperience wtth former prisoners. Together an environmen of trust, friendship and hope can be built to provide the nfldence and courage necessary for each to enter societ 
as a valuable and Integral member. 
Are you interested in living in the Dismas community next semester? Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer • 239·7862 
Learn What 
Banking Has 



To Offer You. 
Find out about trends in ~anking and how the economic outlook for the 1990s is likely to affect the financial services industry. And if you're interested in learning about a career with one of the country's most respected financial institutions, we'll be interested in talking with you. Representatives from Northern Trust in Chicago will visit Notre Dame on Monday, November 4. Please join us then to discuss opportunities in our Commercial Lending and Trust & Financial Services Training Programs. All students are welcome. Stop by the Foster Room, 
Northern Trust BanR' 
The NorthernTrustCompany ' 50 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675 
Affiliates are located in Arizona, California. Florida, and Texas. Equal Opportunity Employer · 


Lily 
continued from page 1 
prepare would-be professors for a career in religious higher education. 
•To create an annual ap­pointment of a Senior Fellow from one of the institutions in­volved. The person holding this 
osition would serve as a role model for the post-doctorate student, according to Egan. "The critical issue is to .inspire the teachers of the future," said Egan. 

Saint Mary's College is also one of four colleges in the net­work program that is a consul­tant to the Lily Fellows Program, said Egan. As a con­sultant . Saint Mary's College is involved in the planning and advising to higher learning, accordin to E an. 



Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page 7 

Israel holds direct, 'businesslike' negotiations with Arab neighbors 
MADRID, Spain (AP) -
Palestinian meeting a Israelis and Palestinians on "breakthrough." Sunday held "good, busi­He said he had no reason to nesslike" direct talks -their expect a walkout by Syria or first ever -and pledged to try any of the other parties. to move on to substantive is­"If that were going to be the sues such as Palestinian auton­case I think we would have omy within a few days. seen it by now,". 
In another milestone, hard­Syria. balking at Israel's in­line Syria overcame hesitations sistence on shifting the negotia­and opened its one-on-one tions to the Middle East, hesi­meeting with Israel late Sunday tated before attending the pro­night -the first talks between cedural session with Israel on the arch-foes in 43 years. A Sunday.

James Baker
Lebanese delegation also held Baker said the United States separate talks with Israel. suit about when and where to and the Soviet Union might step 
"I think it was a good begin­hold substantive talks, "which in and make the venue decision ning," said Secretary of State it is hoped will take place in the event of a long delay. James A. Baker III, who engi­soon." U.S. officials said privately neered the peace conference Palestinian leader Hanan Washington was a possible with eight Middle East shuttles Ashrawi later said the resump­choice. this year. He said the United tion could be in two to three After the Israeli-Palestinian States would remain deeply in­weeks. talks, the participants shook volved in the process. The Palestinians later said hands for photographers, and 
"We intend to stay fully en­that during the meeting they the chief Israeli delegate, gaged, as fully engaged as we had demanded a freeze on Eliakim Rubinstnin, referred to can and for as long as we think Israeli settlements in the occu­his Arab counterparts as "my the parties are serious about pied West Bank and Gaza strip. friends here." At one point he 
peace. And for the moment I Israel has so far refused to answered a qunstion both in think they are serious." freeze the settlement-building. Arabic, with the word 

Following their nearly five­"This is a welcome day for "Inshallah," and in Hebrew, hour session, the Israelis and a peace," said the chief Israeli with the words "lm yirtzeh joint Palestinian-Jordanian del­delegate, Deputy Foreign Hashem" -both meaning "God egation displayed an amiable Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. willing." 
spirit, in contrast to a week of "We have now an Israel that is The participants mingled in confrontational speeches and ringed with a circle of talks and the hallways outside the meet­snubs during last week's cere­we hope it will replace the ing room during breaks. drink­monial opening phase of the circle of guns that surrounds ing coffee together and chat­historic Madrid talks. us." ting. Israeli delegates said. And 

Still to be settled is where the Baker, speaking of the site Palestinian Elias Freij, the substantive negotiations will be and timing of future meetings, mayor of Bethlehem, said held. In a joint statement, the said: "This is an open ques­"there were many light mo­two sides said they would con-tion." But he called the Israeli-ments." 
Poll: Most Americans favor physician-assisted suicide 
BOSTON (AP) -A new poll "People are trying to tell us very important to us," said The American Medical suggests that most Americans something." said Dr. Marcia Professor Robert Blendon of the Association is against lifting its favor physician-assisted suicide Angell, executive editor of the Harvard School of Public traditional opposition to physi­and euthanasia for terminally ill New England Journal of Health, who helped design the cian-assisted suicide and patients who request it. Medicine. "There's a great per­poll. euthanasia. 
The poll by The Boston Globe ception out there that high-tech But others argued that and the Harvard School of medicine has gotten out of Americans haven't considered "I don't think the profession Public Health indicates that hand." the implications of euthanasia. will move" from this position. public sentiment on euthanasia said Dr. M. Roy Schwarz. the hasn't been swayed by warn­While a substantial majority "They're captured by the ar­AMA's senior vice president of ings from religious leaders and of those polled favor giving gument of self-determination medical education and science. nwdical groups that it could terminally ill patients the option and have not begun to think "Maybe in five or 10 years, but lead to abuses. of suicide, 52 percent think they about what are the implications not soon." 
would actually exercise it for the medical profession or Washington state residents 
The poll, published Sunday, themselves. the potential for abuses," said are to vote Tuesday on a ballot shows that 64 percent of those "We live in a libertarian cul­Daniel Callahan, who directs question that would make it le­questioned favor physician-as­ture in which freedom to choose the Hastings Center, an institute gal for doctors to help a con­sisted suicide. in these personal matters is of medical ethics. senting patient die. Thirty-one 

------------------------------·---·-.....----.............-................ 






Business 
page 8 Monday, Noember 4, 1991 

Rael_told The Philadelphia In­

UJ?coming Events 

Kroc Institute Lectures and Seminars 
Week of .NOVEMBER 4, 1991 

TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 5 

4:00 p.m. -RUBEN APRESYAN, Ethics Department, Institute of Philosophy of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, and the Moscow Center for the Ethics of Nonviolence, "A MORAL AND POLITICAL APPRAISAL OF TilE AUGUST COUP AND TilE PROSPECTS FOR NONVIOLENCE IN TilE U.S.S.R." Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 7 

12:15 p.m.-KIMBERLY GRAY, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, "SCIENCE AND EMOTION: THE DIOXIN DEBATE." Conference Room 103. 
2:45p.m.-LARR¥ ROTTMANN, Viet11am Veteran, Poet, Editor, 
Novelist, Film-maker; Director, Southeast Asia-Ozark Project at 
Southwest Missouri State University, presents an introduction and 
screening of his documentary film "TilE BICYCLE DOCTORS: LIFE IN 
A VIETNAMESE HOSPITAL.'' Room 100-Center for Continuing 
Education. 

4:00 p.m. -GEORGE A. LOPEZ, Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Kroc Institute and Associate Professor of Government and International Studies, "INFORMATION SESSION FOR THE CONCENTRATION IN PEACE STUDIES (CPS)." Mont2omery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:30 p.m. -LARRY ROTTMANN, a reading or poems about the Vietnam War, "VOICES FROM THE HO CHI MINH TRAIL: POETRY AND MUSIC FROM VIETNAM." Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 8 

12:00 p.m.-NATALIA PIRUMOVA, Senior Fellow of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Division or History, "LEO TOLSTOY, TilE TOLSTOYANS, AND THE FATE OF NONVIOLENCE IN RUSSIA." Cosponsored with the Department of History and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA). Conference Room 103. 
Ill 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
PEACE STU Dl ES 

UNIVERSIIT OF NafRE DAME 
Telephone: (219) 239-6970 Fax: (219) 239-6973 

Sununu says he knew of no contact between Rogers and a BCCI figure 
WASHINGTON (AP) -White House Chief of Staff John Su­nunu said Sunday he would have advised his former aide, Edward Rogers Jr., against working for a prominent figure in the Bank of Credit and Commerce International scandal. 
"I would have said absolutely that I thought it would have been the wrong thing for him to do," Sununu said on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation." 
Rogers did not seek his advice, he said. Rogers, formerly Su­nunu's top personal aide as well as White House political direc­tor, left the White House in Au­gust. 
Less than a month later, he signed a $600,000 contract to give legal advice to Sheik Kamal Adham, a former Saudi intelligence officer who is being investigated for allegedly helping BCCI illegally obtain 

University misspent federal research funds 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The University of Pennsylvania has returned almost $1 million in federal research funds that the government says the university misspent mainly on alumni fund-raising activities. 
The school sent the govern­ment a check for $930,642 last week after reaching an agree­ment with the Department of Health and Human Services, said Selimo Rael, vice president of finance. 

John Sununu 
controlling interest in First America Bancshares. 
Rogers, 33, who had never practiced law before leaving the White House, withdrew from the agreement last week. 
The Bush administration on Friday said investigations by the White House and the Justice Department had found no evidence of ethics violations by Rogers. 
However. the latest issue of Newsweek magazine quotes un­named senior administration of­ficials and congressional sources as saying that "questions remain concerning Sununu's connections to BCCI." 
Sununu said White House counsel C. Boyden Gray and the Justice Department had "made it clear that there is absolutely no wrongdoing by Mr. Rogers, before or after he left the White House, or by anyone at any time in the White House on the BCCI situation." 
The White House chief of staff denounced the Newsweek article as "irresponsible, reckless and malicious, and wrong." 
When asked whether he thought a special prosecutor should be appointed to investi­gate, Sununu said, "We have left everything in the hands of the Justice Department." 
quirer Friday that the problem, stemming from "simple over­sight on our part," would not be repeated. 
Government guidelines permit federal research funds to cover overhead, including the costs of utilities, library resources and other items indirectly related to research. 
But government auditors found that the university had improperly included in its indi­rect costs $782,531 for alumni fund-raising activities, including parties and promotional 

FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS A SUMMER STUDENT NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1991. For more information contact: 


Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 1-800-247-8590 
1-507-255-4314 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. 
brochures. 
Also improperly charged was $98,891 for the university's chaplaincy, $11,275 for public relations and $22,713 for en­tertainment. 
Another $5,312 spent on maintaining the university's art collection and on floral ar­rangements for the university­owned home of school President Sheldon Hackney was dis­allowed. 
The agreement followed a four-month audit of 14 univer­sities across the country. 
[[£ 

Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page 9 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, November 4, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Americans spend their lives at jobs they hate 
Dear Editor: was most proud of? I was workload is a true pain in the hates their work more. It doesn't matter if you like the America's a funny place. I be­proud because I sat in my room ass, which naturally means ND We'll pay others to raise our work you do, the point is to do gan to realize that last year in staring at books longer than students receive a better · kids for us, which they hate, so so much of it that you hate it. the Innsbruck program. It re­those lowly "Arts and Parties" education. we can spend even more time Otherwise, you're obviously not ally began to sink in when I re­majors. That gave me a real Americans love hating work so hating our work. And for doing enough, and should feel turned. rush. Yippie. much that they'll gladly ignore leisure, we all get drunk to for-guilty about it. You see, the 
Of the many funny things 

only way to escape this guilt is

~~~ .,. • , f\ about America, one strikes me 
to work until you're miserable, as the funniest. Americans love 
thereby attaining happiness. work. And they love to have 
You have to push yourself. work. Nothing makes an Push yourself... Think about American happier than hating ~~-t ~~~ ~~I it. Who wants to push them­work. selves? You might knock your­
And why are we proud to be even spouse and kids to get work because we hate it so self down. 
Take the engineer on campus. at ND? Don't deny having spend as much time as possible much. But if we didn't hate I was one for the frrst semester scoffed at your friends at State hating work. And the time they work so such, we'd have no Tim Probst of my freshman year just like College for working less than do have with their families they reason to get drunk, so we're Off-campus everyone else. You know what I you on schoolwork. ND's spend discussing which spouse sure glad that we hate work. Oct. 27, 1991 
Students should protest use of pro-choice Core book 
Dear Editor: Viability is a completely arbi­Jacobson then argues that "no concerns the misconception duction via abortion and 
As a sophomore in the College trary point for determining le­nation wanting to reduce its that a legal abortion is a safe mandatory sterilization. of Arts and Letters, I was very gal abortions because it is con­growth to less than 1% can ex­one. Such excellent institutions Unfortunately, because stu­disappointed by the selection of stantly changing with new pect to do so without the as John Hopkins and Cornell dents were not assigned this one book by the Core technology. What is human to­widespread use of abortion." Medical Schools endorse the chapter and it was not likely to Department, Lester Brown's day was not human yesterday (130) statement that there is no such be discussed in class, the curi­"State of the World 1991." I according to this logic. Several statistics were thing as a safe and legal ous peruser likely to encounter can appreciate a book whose Furthermore, Jacobson (writer obtained from the Alan abortion, and that there are these lies cannot recognize goal is increased awareness of this chapter), states that the Guttmacher Institute. complications inherent to such them without a more extensive and concern for the environ­"crucial stages of development Guttmacher, a former President a procedure such as maternal background in these issues. I ment provided that it is accu­of brain, heart, and lungs begin of Plaimed Parenthood mortality, future infertility, do not suggest censorship of rate and does not denigrate the around the 20th week of preg­Federation of America (PPFA), frequent infection, hemor­ideas, but question why a more value of human life. nancy," (115) when the heart spoke in 1969 that "eventually rhages, and perforation of the balanced, accurate book could 
Although Brown's work indi­actually begins beating at 3 coercion may become necessary uterus. not have been chosen so as not cates a sincere concern for the weeks, brainwaves are measur­(in population programs)." to cast doubt on the validity of environment, it also reveals a able around 6 weeks, and all He also supported the more The statistics are often the rest of the text? growing disregard for human organ systems are functioning than 100 million forced abor­skewed because only the abor­If students would take a few life conveyed through misin­at 10 weeks. tions, mandatory sterilizations, tionists are consulted about minutes to register a complaint formation and Orwellian dou­and coercive infanticides in complications rather than the in the Core Department on the blespeak. Another point of contention to China, and Planned Parenthood doctors in the emergency rooms first floor of O'Shaughnessy, 
I speak primarily of the chap­be addressed is that of a hidden has fought hard to maintain of hospitals who actually treat perhaps we could convince the ter seven entitled "Coming to agenda which exploits women U.S. funding of the Chinese these victims. professors that Notre Dame Grips with Abortion." This under the guise of' helping population program. In the I would like to think that the students value the whole envi­chapter is replete with faulty them. Jacobson speaks of light of this knowledge, one has Core Department has good in­ronment, which includes human reasoning and blatant inaccu­women's rights in one breath, good reason to doubt the objec­tentions in choosing Lester life. racies. For instance, it places and of the dire need to reduce tivity and validity of Jacobson's Brown's book, such as alerting viability of the unborn at six the population in the next. statistics. students to environmental Katrina Hilton months, when in fact they have Is this an environmental book One last word on the myriad problems and that they do not Pasquerilla West successfully survived at four. or one on women's "rights?" deceptions manifest in this book really advocate population re-Oct. 29, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
/IK), Re.AUY, IAJ5R& fX)-ANI?P.IORI</N6 AT 
1/16 FINe, JOAN/G-. NOr ffOMeiSAPWS. 
UKE BeF<:J/<'e, BUTOKAY. IAI/7H 77-13PtAI:&AU­
IW3 8Cl:N PICKJN6 UP 1D Myrj[;lF, I CAN 
A urrze fR&e.-LANCe GeTA torIXJV&. 
IAJORJ<., 50 7liAT5 Hlili'W... 
I
.....-:~~ / 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To find that others need you, therein lies the danger of arrogance.' 

I. B. Miquiabas 
Break on through and submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


Viewpoint
Monday, November 4, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tickets wrongly confiscated but not returned to ND student 
Dear Editor: What shocked me most about that it is the students who make 
On October 26th, before the the situation is that I was told I Notre Dame, then this in­USC game, my tickets were had no right to ask for my stitution must cease calling it­confiscated by security tickets back because, to use her self a "university" and abandon personnel because I didn't show words, "You screwed up." any claims it has to being called my 1.1>. card. Although upset After explaining the situation an institution of higher learn­about missing the game, I con­and emphasizing the urgency of ing. sidered this a misunderstanding solving this problem, I was The University of Notre Dame and went to the athletic de-rudely told "You students think was not founded as a country partmnnl ticket oflicn to clarify the University will stop for you club for alumni and prominent the situation and have my tick­every time you have a businessmen, and it should stop ets mturru'ld to me. problem." operating as such. I do not 
1\fter nxplaining my situation I again tried to explain and I think Fr. Sorin would be to the tieket ollice secretary, I was again told "You screwed pleased to see the University of was rudely ignored, and after­up." Notre Dame coming to this in wards insulted by this woman. I find this episode appalling, its sesquicentennial year. I was not nven allowed to ex­and I know I am not alone in Leo Story plain my situation to the direc­this feeling. If the people who Cavanaugh Hall tor Mr. Cunningham. run this University do not see Oct. 31, 1991 

\\" 
\-. 
$$$ 

\ v " 

~ \ ~' 
~it!Wl_­

Catholics should not claim moral superiority over homosexuals 
Dear Editor: The church is alive and well­morality-two issues that the nature is what it is. St. Paul "disordered?" All of us are 
In the last few weeks the edi­just watch worshippers at mass media has done much to create. once prayed that God would sinners. The prayer of the torial page of The Observer has sometime. I believe that most The interpretation of papal remove "a thorn in the flesh" publican is more appropriate been lilled with lnttnrs address­American Catholics are in sub­authority has always been con­from him, but God did not. We for us than the thunderings of ing the issue of the acceptance stantial 
agreement with the troversial and divisive. Actu-cannot know for certain, but the morally self-righteous. 
......----...;:--------::;;.--­
of homosexuals on this campus. Hence I would ask all This issue is related to views of Catholics to observe what tlw Catholic church. happens at mass. I am moved Freqtwntly, we see articles de­by the piety of worshipers, all of nouncing the indifference of the whom have their "thorns of the faithful to papal teaching, or flesh," all of whom are trying lntters demanding the ordina­their darndest to be decent tion of women. persons, all of whom God 
While attending masses at understands in the depth of Saered Heart Church the last their hearts, all of whom God snv1~ral weeks. I realized at loves in their weaknesses, all of some moment just how foolish whom we should love in their are both thn eeclesiological church. I am sure that they ac­ally, a good case can be made Paul could have been praying weaknesses, in our weaknesses. right and left. Prof. Rice, for cept the church's insistence that that the pope today enjoys more for an end of sexual desire. The church prospers (the instance, who argund in today's good works have salvific value, spiritual and moral authority God did not remove that thorn, American Catholic church is Observer for greater deference that God's grace is efficaciously than he ever has. Though the says Paul, so that the Lord one of few Christian denomina­to tlw pope (lest "an activity mediated in the sacramental doctrine of papal infallibility could be his strength in human tions still growing) not because d11structive to society" be legit­ministrations of the church, and was proclaimed at Vatican I, the weakness. of obedience or political em­imized-so how has society sur­yes, that the pope is head of the pope has only spoken infallibly Does not the tradition of the powerment, but because of the vived th11 onslaught of the ho­church. on two Marian teachings, both church and spirit of the Gospels Holy Spirit working in the mosexuals all these centuries, The current dissent from the of which had ancient command more charity than faithful. Professor'!). should really re­magisterium comes in two basic antecedents in the popular piety juridical neatness in human Robert W. Shaffern serve his anxiety for weightier areas-the nature of papal au­of the church. life? What is really being said Graduate Student i~o;;ues. thority and sexual As for sexual morality, human when homosexuals are called Oct. 29, 1991 
Abortion protest accomplishes goals 
Dear Editor: gan and Elsa Scheidler had let­The Life Chain here in South 
On Oct. 6, a Life Chain, a le­ters in The Observer urging Bend was primarily manned not gal, positive, nation-wide students to take part. A half by Catholics, but by those demonstration for Life was held page ad was also placed in The parishioners from the Evangel­by the area's Right to Life Observer in case someone ical churches. Only four (out of organization, the St. Joseph might have missed the call for 27) local Catholic churches County Right to Life. South help. were previously assigned places Bend was one of 373 cities Signs of non-cooperation ap­on the line, proving again what holding Life Chains, with peared on the Saint Mary's most of us pro-life Catholics 771,000 participants across the campus as the signs that said: have known for nineteen years: country, The South Bend Tri­"Stand Up for Life" were daily that even though the Holy Fa­bune Oct. 7 reported that 5,000 ripped down and were replaced ther and the National Council of area pro-lifers took part locally. constantly by Arnie Halstead, Catholic Bishops say that Because Life Chain is a the President of the Right to abortion is the primary moral Christian reaffirmation of life, Life at Saint Mary's and by Pro­problem in the country today, demonstrators mostly stood in a fessor Anthony Black. sponsor few Catholics act on it. cross formation. of the group. Seldom if ever in most 
Early on, it was recognized churches the subject comes up.
Hospitals should register 
that when the CHAIN -the At 2:00 to 3:00 on the Sunday 4,500 children are destroyed cross -reached the Notre afternoon of Oct. 6, twenty five daily and most Catholics con­
Dame property along U.S. 31, Notre Dame students stood on tinue to be "Good Germans" there existed few places for the Life Chain. Across the and look the other way as hap­Dear Editor: we should be on the forefront of participants to part. A solution highway twelve Saint Mary's pened in the Holocaust. 
As Catholics we believe that getting society to equate birth was suggested. Perhaps the students represented their The South Bend Tribune arti­life begins at conception. It is with conception, not delivery. Notre Dame students could be school. A fierce wind and a cle of Oct. 7 reported that there our fundamental belief that God We can do this by having all 
birth age as nine months 
asked to walk from their dorms driving rain did not deter these were "large gaps in the chain gives consciousness and a soul Catholic hospitals list a person's to stand on 31 for the one hour two small bands whose signs, from Angela Blvd. on". Did that to individuals when they are age at delivery as being the -covering their own property. "Jesus Forgive and Heals" and mean, someone asked, that the 
con<~eived. It Is at this time that number of months since 
How appropriate it all seemed "Abortion Kills Children" -the chain -the cross -wasthe individual is born. conception. Nine months in to be asking the Congregation signs that were carried in 373 broken?
Yet society has mistakenly most cases. Also we should of the Holy Corss to extend the U.S. cities and 100 Canadian ci­The cross was not broken: the

equated a person's birth with push our legislature to pass 
cross in the Life Chain. ties -were buffeted in squall­chain was intact. The 28
their delivery. We call a per­laws requiring burial services son's delivery date their birth­for individuals that the mothers President Father· Malloy was like weather here in South million aborted children stood day, and we start measuring a have chosen to abort. Let's informed of the predicament Bend. with us along the Life Chain ­
person's age at that point. But hope that we can eliminate and asked for help; many of the I am exceedingly proud of along with the twenty-five as we all know, most babies are abortions, but at the same time rectors of the Halls were also these two small bands of stu­Notre Dame students and 
-
around nine months old when maintain the rights of a woman made aware of the problem; the dents led by their own peers, twelve Saint Mary's students. they are delivered. to choose. 
Right to Life groups on the NO and to Mike Sheliga and Jeff We Catholics are just as guilty David Melkey campus as well as the chapter Turner who served as Life Virginia Black as everyone else of propagating Off-campus at Saint Mary's put up posters Chain captains. They truly LIFE CHAIN Coordinator this falsehood. Yet as Catholics Oct. 21 , 1991 and Co-Presidents Julie Henni-stood their ground. Oct. 27, 1991 
...---~--------~-~----~--------~~-----~ --------------~ ~--~----­





Accent 
page 12 Monday, November 4, 1991 




WHO'S 
teaching 
WHO? 
ND grad learns from 5-year-olds in Teach for America
Accent Writer 


Excitement, creativity, the situation teaching in an punishment was to go home. He ought to return a Jot to the the students and their families initiative-we are beginning to urban area has placed her in. did everything in his power to world and attempt to give continue to grow. appreciate and even demand When she arrived in Houston on stay in school. children a chance with their Discipline is less of a problem these in the men and women August 10, 1991, she was Their longing for structure education. He wanted to do for Tom than it has been for who face our children from the without a permanent teaching often translates into a longing volunteer work after Michelle. He admits to having front of the classrooms each position because of for learning, explains Michelle, graduation, and was attracted some angry kids, but most of his morning. administrative problems in the who is amazed at how quickly by the fact that Teach for students have relatively happy 
The call for good teachers in school district. She found a they are progressing America provided him an family lives and respond well to this country is raised home by herself, and even now academically. They have opportunity to apply himself to him in class. If some lack continuously by people who admits to being fearful of the already learned the hardest a service which might possibly academic strength and work both inside and outside increased crime and drugs in lessons of life very young become a career. Loving motivation, the problem may the education system. A good Houston. "You can't make because of the neighborhoods children is the first pre­not lie in the fact that their teacher is a person we respect, mistakes," she says. "You learn in which they live. For many requisite is his mind. The parents don't care. They have a person of strength, and a to walk differently, dress children, a sad future is second is dealing with the accepted traditional roles in the potential hero. differently, talk differently" than predicted by the age of five. Not normal setbacks new teachers family and society and perhaps 
Many Notre Dame graduates before. to yield to those sometimes face on a daily basis. have difficulty understanding enter the full-time community During the summer training unfair labels is one of the most Unlike Michelle, Tom has the demands of their children's in service-related positions program in Los Angeles, challenging aspects of the job. been in the same teaching education. Tom has initiated after graduation. An intriguing Michelle and the 750 other The situation in Houston is far position since he arrived in relationships with many parents program some have joined is graduates from schools from hopeless. When asked if Houston. He lives in a relatively and has found them very Teach for America, a national nationwide worked as teachers the youngsters might escape quiet neighborhood-still unlike concerned about their children. teaching corps consisting by day and students by night, their potentially harsh lifestyles, the "suburbia" of his New llis students have a normal primarily of college graduates and "were fed a lot of idealism." range or intellectual capabilities with non-education majors. The After the plunge into the city of good educators, Teach for and have come to accept him in participants commit to two Houston, Michelle accepts the but also pivotal America the classroom. The kids arc years o.f teaching in urban or fact that nothing could have family and world participants eager to make friends, so he rural areas plagued by prepared her for what she has events might who are has a good relationship with all persistent teacher shortages. encountered there. change and enjoying their of them. "I adore them. I wish 
Teach for America is a non­inspire any child. simple lifestyle. they were mine." profit organization funded by Even in kindergarten, the Michelle says Many of his When asked how his views corporations and private children in her area are Teach for acquaintances and values in general have been donations. It was initiated by hardened and defiant. Many America teachers have had a altered by the Teach for Wendy Kopp, who proposed the come from homes where are having a difficult time America experience, Tom idea in her senior thesis at corporal punishment is normal; positive effect on with their responded at length that while Princeton three years ago. Michelle has been asked by the children students, but he finds bureaucracy Participants are paid by the parents to use this form of although it is Tom has been frustrating, he has become school districts for which they punishment to suppress "very small, but I lucky enough to more optimistic about teachers work in amounts coinciding defiance, although it has been have made very feel almost no and the inner city system as a with the regular salary for outlawed in the state of Texas. special friends in the ,students I sociological or economic wall whole. He has met dedicated beginning teachers in that area. Daniel Courcey, a graduate of teach." between himself and his kids. teachers and truly wonderful The program sent out its first Bowdoin College in Maine who Coping with and appreciating He teaches 22 Mexican students, who don't need Teach group of teachers in August also teaches in Houston, calls that small effect remains American third-graders from for America to survive but are 1990. This group 
these children incredibly frustrating, especially the barrios, a neighborhood so doing admirable work in their will complete its "the products of for idealistic graduates full of Mexican heritage that own communities. Instead, he is two-year the violent accustomed to accomplishment. "you wouldn't know you were in thankful to be a part of the commitment at society we read Leaving the program is not America" to drive through it. school district. the end of this about" but often uncommon: "This is the first Adapting to a new city, year. fail to recognize time facing failure. You live neighborhood, and occupation After his two years in Texas, 
Following are if we don't live in failure; you have to look for were the most difficult Tom is unsure what profession the stories of two the city. In both results. You must maintain a problems Tom faced upon he will enter. After having the graduates of the Houston and in long-term vision, and work to arrival in Houston. An experience, however, he now University of Los Angeles, maintain sanity and some sort economics and government considers teaching a viable Notre Dame, when drawing of positive in the face of major at Notre Dame, he felt option at some point in the class of 1991, their homes and negative, negative, negative." very unprepared in some ways. future. All participants take the who entered families for a Michelle is willing to give it Being a non-education major National Teachers' Exam before 
·~ 
their jobs in class project, time. After two years, she plans made the transition difficult at they begin their teaching and Houston, Texas, many of these to go back to school before first, he admits. It was draining are certified according to the after a six-week training period children represented gangs, entering the professional world. and stressful 
requirements of in Los Angeles this summer. guns, blood, and images equally For now, however, she has because the their respective Despite their proximity to each as frightening. developed close, supportive comfort and districts by the other, they have encountered Michelle admits that despite relationships with other security of college time they drastically different problems at the major behavior problems of teachers in the district and in were missing this complete the their respective schools, and many children, they are not Teach for America. She is time. "There are program. surprisingly similar rewards. difficult to discipline. "Yell, personally committed and no freshman 
._ Michelle Gambs graduated in scream, punish-they still love refuses to back out. When orientation T h e May 1991 with a degree in you. They yearn for discipline, asked to describe Teach for committees to government, American Studies. A native of structure and order because America, she calls it "the most make you feel at the people, the Lafayette, Ind., she grew up they don't get (it) outside those challenging experience I've ever home," Tom students-we surrounded by 45 acres of four walls." had." It is emotionally and recalls. have a real country. Now, she lives alone in Idealism, however, is far more physically draining, but she As time responsibility to a Houston apartment, in a difficult to implement than doesn't regret her decision. progresses, he is the kids in the neighborhood where crime and order. Kids don't listen to ideas Her advice to anyone becoming more country... they violence are frequent. She had but to imposed rules. As a considering the program: "Have comfortable and more don't learn anything unless read about Teach for America teacher, Michelle has tried to strong shoulders." Take comfort idealistic. Practical tasks like taught it-how to deal with on her own and says she felt Jove her students and let them in the fact that you are not using text books, implementing conflict in a healthy way, how to compelled to enter the program know she cares while still being alone. There are few people methods of teaching, and respect themselves and other in order to use her blessings for a harsh teacher. They want who are overjoyed by their putting together lesson plans people, how to control their a worthy cause. Presently, she attention so badly that they long positions, but maintaining a are becoming easier. He is emotions," Tom reflects. To put is a kindergarten teacher to for the environment the vision makes it worth the ctTort, finding his own way to dr.al these lessons into some kind of African American children in classroom provides. One rlay, a she says. with the theories and a policy would be challenging the city. third grader fought to get hack Motivated by summer service approaches to teaching for our· society, but he says we A naturally confident and into the classroom out of which projects and counseling presented during the six-week should consider doing so, for committed person, Michelle he had been thrown for experience in Newark, N.J., training in Los Angeles. In our sake and the sake of our found herself overwhelmed by disciplinary reasons. His Thomas Mustillo felt that he addition, his relationships with students. 

Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Falcons soar over San Fran with last second TO catch; Bears win 
(/\1')-Surn, tlw Washington Hndskins arn good. Othnrwisn they wouldn't bn <J-0. 
Still. it takes a littln luck to be tlw only undefeated tnam in the NFI .. and thn Hndskins had plnnty Sunday. 
Falcons 17, 49ers 14 
Michanl Haynes won a jump hall among night playnrs in the nnd zo1W with OJW sneond ldt and eanw down with a 44-yard 
Florida 
continued from page20 
which wn wnrn in this situation wlwrn if wn win. wn gPL into thn INC/\/\1 tournamnnt. They have donn this for ynars." 
Onen again the Irish were ef­ftH~tnd by injurins. /\ndrna Kurnk playnd but was not at I00 pnrcent and .Jodi llartwig was forced out of the game tmrly with a had knne. 
".Jodi has hnen onn of our most nfTnctive attacknrs all year 
TD catch that liftnd Atlanta over San Francisco. 
Bengals 23, Browns 21 
Cincinnati won its lirst game, holding on at home in the linal minutes to beat its cross-state rival. 
Saints 24, Rams 17 
Stevn Walsh, starting in place of injurnd Bobby IIebert. passnd for two touchdowns as New Orleans bounced back from its 
and to lose her hurt." said Petrucelli. "It would have befm different game if she were in the there." 
To compensate for the loss of llartwig and thn short field, Petrucelli tried many lineup changes, moving Margaret Jars up and Stephanie Porter back to middie. lie also put Tasha Strawbridge and Robin Mego into the game. However, noth­ing was able to spark the Irish attack. 
Central Florida iced the game with two second half goals. At only loss to win in Los Angeles. 
Bears 20, Lions 10 
Jim Harbaugh threw a pair of second-half TO passes to Wendell Davis, and Chicago won at home to take sole pos­session of lirst place of the NFC Central. 
Bills 22, Patriots 17 
Thurman Thomas ran for 126 yards as Buffalo got by New England for its 16th straight 
52:45 Amy Goltz put UCF up 2-0 after taking a pass from red­shirt freshman and former high school /\11-American Kelly Kochevar. Tina Theia then put the game out of reach at 71:41 on a shot which beat Irish goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga from eight yards out. 
The first Central Florida goal was set up by a Kochevar cross which was put in by Karen Kopp at 19:55. 
"The difference in the game was they were very motivated to play, and were intimidated," victory at Rich Stadium. 
Jets 19, Packers 16 
Pat Leahy. who earlier this season missed a 28-yard field goal in overtime that led to a loss in Chicago, kicked a 37­yard with 5:20 left in overtime to beat Green Bay. 
Dolphins 10, Colts 6 
Mark Duper tied Miami's ca­reer reception yardage record and the Dolphins kept 
said Petrucelli. "In the future we will look at this as a learn­ing experience. We will be in this situation again-there's no doubt about that." 
Yesterday against Florida International, the Irish were unable to come out with a win as they were tied by the Golden Panthers 1-1 in overtime. 
The first half was evenly played, as shots were 6-5 in fa­vor of Florida International. The Golden Panthers got on the board first when Delia DeSilva 
Indianapolis as the NFL's only winless team. 
Cowboys 27, Cardinals 7 
Emmitt Smith scored three touchdowns and Hobert Williams blocked a punt and in­tercepted a pass. leading Dallas at home. 
Cardinals. lie scored twien ear­lier this season and had four touchdowns against Phoenix last December. 
scored off a corner kick at 
16:59 when she beat Lodgya to her left. 
The Irish responded twelve minutes later when Porter passed the ball out to Susie Zilvitis on the wing. Zilvitis then faked a cross, beat a defender and put a cross just underneath the crossbar. 
6oth teams had their chances to score in the second half, the best of which came when Hartwig hit Porter with a pass and Porter's shot hit the cross­bar. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
2 bdrm house. $150 & WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S I NEED I TENN GA OR STUD TIX FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TO $200/Mo, Call Paul287·2159 TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL TO ANY HOME GAME$ WILL PAY BIG$$ CALL STEVE PICK -UP AT 3:30 AND CARE 
I NOTICES 
Walk to campus. 284·3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, CALL COLLECT X1003 FOR 7 YR. OLD 3-4 HAS. 1310 South Bend Ave. NUMBER AND PRICE 812-477-2627 THEREAFTER. STAY TYPING AVAILABLE Need 2 TENN stud. or GA's. OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A 287·4082 Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical NEED: 2 GA's Navy and 4 GA's TENNESSEE: NEED 6 GA'S Call Lara x4918 WEEK (MY HOME 
home. No appliances. $550/mo. Tenn. Call John 273-9165. SHARON 284-5146 KNOLLWOOD/GRANGER AREA) Buy and Sell used books Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or ""''$$$$$$$$$$""" AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. Pandora 's Books-newbooks and Cressy & EveretV BH & G 233-Need 2 Tenn tickets. Need 2 GA's for Navy and " NEED TWO TENN GA's •• START NOV. 13 THRU END OF the NY Times tooII 6141. Dave T. 1750 Tennessee. Call Tim at x1417. " FOR PARENTS FROM ... YEAR. WEEK OF X-MAS OFF. corner of NO ave and Howard "BOSTONI WILL PAY .... (NEED FREOUENTL Y 233·2342/1 0·5:30 everyday NICE FURNISHED HOMES $$ NEED A TENN. STUD IN A $$ I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for "TOP DOLLAR! PLEASE" THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 
CLOSE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT $BAD WAY. CALL DAN x3403 $ Tennessee. "CALL PATIY x2126"' WEEKLY. MUST BE Spee·Dee Wordprocessing SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 Chris 239-5713 ""'"$$$$$$$$$"'"' RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE. 237·1949 PEOPLE 2773097 WILL BUY TENN REFERENCES. CALL DONNA@ MIKE 288-7458 NEED PENN STATE TIX $ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $ 277-8269. 
WowC· LARGE 3-BEDROOM DUPLEX JOE X2341 I WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY NEAR ND. APPLIANCES, Need 1 TN GA! Mark x1197 FOR 2 TENN GA'S X1737 Happy Birthday Noles! GARAGE, WALK·IN CLOSETS, TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
NEW CARPET/PAINT. $395 + I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD. RANDY 800-323· 7687. Need 2 Stud. Tix tor Tenn. Hey Dan from corn country, yes 1· 
UTILITIES. 289·1618. CALL MATI@ 1802 Jay x1578 32 learned how to French kiss. LOST: Can you dig this I I am terribly How is 15-66 the bike ride to A BROWN LEATHER JACKET AT 2 Bed/2 Bath Condo, 1518 N. DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN interested in buying a Student ticket I have 1 Student Tenn ticket for Carroll? Smile and · 101 serve SENIOR BAR ON HALLOWEEN Oakhill. 5 min walk from GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL for Tennessee. Price is no object, sale, best offer. I also am in dire those peas I Love, cousins Kate. NIGHT. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL campus. January avail. PAT X1767111 unless of course you want more need of two Tennessee GA's, call JILL AT 283·491 0 References/Deposit 273 money than I am willing to pay you. x1471. stronger than burt 
·1329. I will give YOU anything you Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. want if You give ME what I If Dave is busy his personal staff will NEED TWO TENN. GA'S SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNIWANTED A quaint studio in lovely old want-ANY TENN TIX be happy to help you. Irish V·ball CALL 287 ·3587 REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. 
mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $225/ Call BROOKE at x2240 rulesll!lllll!ll COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATIONS ALASKA SUMMER mo. plus deposit call 2879624 Need 2 student tickets for Tenn. , LARGEST AND MOST EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn will buy any Please call 273-9316 SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK $5,000+/month. Free $$$ATIENTION Ticketholders: 1enn or navy TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS lransportationl Room & Board! FOR SALE I need TWO Tennessee GAs tix. john 1811 PLEASE help! Need Tenn. GA ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS Over 8,000 openings. No so bad that I can taste them! or Stud. tixl Call Sarah x4220 REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE experience necessary. MALE or 2 0/W TIX SB TO PHI LA. Big Bucks in it for YOU II Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please TRIPS AND CASH I WE PROVIDE FEMALE. For employment program NOV 14 $80 EA. Call DICE at x1751 $$$ call Dan x1740 One TENESSEE ticket needed EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL call Student Employment Services 287·9676 Please call Michelle at 2672 1·800-395·4896 FOR MORE at 1·206·545·4t55 exl. 118. Roses are red Good afternoon, my friends. INFORMATION. 
FOR SALE: Violets are blue I have a small request which I hope Help Cure The Peutis Running 
"83 Mercury Lynx I'm schizophrenic can be mutually beneficial to all Rampant in My Family I I I Happy Birthday Noles! FUNDRAISER. We're looking for a Good condition, sunroof And so am I. involved. I desperately need 4 GAs Sell Us Four Tennessee GA's student organization or club thai Will discuss price So I need an extra for Tennessee. If you have any at all X3414 The fun and exciting Pittsburgh would like to make $500·$1500 for Call Karen @ 284·5050 Tenn. GA. please call Gina@ 2982. If I am Club needs a freshman or soph. a one week marketing project on Todd X2371 unavailable, please leave a executive member! call Di x4861 for campus. Must be organized and See ND in Hawaii!! message so I can get back to you. more info.


I PERSONALS 
hard workmg. Call Betsy or Mary Airline Ticket only Need Tenn tix Beth at 800·592·2121. $430.00 Call Jim 232·3296 FOR SALE: I am the Lizard King and I can do Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
Call Mike #3493 UNSIGNED STUDENT TICKET anything. FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS I need 2 Tenn GA's or student tix BOOK WITH REMAINDER OF Promote & Orgamze our Spring '76 VOLVO 245 WAGON. 3 SEAT, 7 HOME GAMES. Happy birthday Joe Roberts. Break tours. All materials furnished. PASS. NO RUST OR DENTS. NEW will pay big money! CALL AND MAKE GOOD OFFER· Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus BRAKES, TIRES EXHALJST. 4 JOE 271-1211 GETAWAY WEEKEND Marketing. 1·800·423·5264. SPEED WITH OVERDRIVE. $1800 Mel 277·7767 (leave name, number and offer KOONTZ HOUSE 
OR B/0. 684-6129. if I'm not there) BED 'N BREAKFAST 
I need Tenn GA's or stud 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE TRAVEL FREE!! SELL QUALITY Apple lmagewriter II Greg 289·8917 Need 2 UT·Notre Dame GA tickets DAME SPRING BREAK VACATION TO Brand new, in box, paper & Nov. 9. Call (704) 541·8845. 586-7090 JAMAICA. HIGHEST dust cover. ask $375 H$LP! ON$ T$NN TICK$T COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR Tom 277·8790 N$$0$0! CALL COLL$$N BIG BUCKS!! INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. THE BEST! X4244 I need two Tenn. G.A.'s and I Good rates. Save Money. Call me SUN SPLASH TOURS will pay greatly for them. for a ejuote 9:30-6:00, 1·800·426· 7710. TICKETS I'll SATISFY ANYONE ANY WAY Call Chris at ·1736. 289·1993. Office near campus. 
YOU LIKE IT FOR A TENN GAl! !I Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling WILL PAY YOU CASH FOR YOUR Killer x1604 $$$ I need lots o' GA's for Navy Happy Birthday Noles I Spring Break Packages To TENNESSEE GJI.'S QR STUDENT and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for 
RfSEI?VATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/ 
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, TIX Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big$ pd. Aaron or leave message. $$$ Only 7 weeks til the end of the 
DAYTONA BEACH -'IN 
Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908 semester! I Ill 
5 IJIId 1 NIGHTS , .. Break Travel 1·800·638·6786. MEL 277·7767 449·0589. Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 
SOUTH 'ADtf ISLAIID -•• 
5 IWO 7 NIGHTS .,••
ADOPTION 

STEUIIJOAT -.-;.-;
$350.00/DA'( PROCESSING Need 2 Tenn GA's desperately!! Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn. Need 4 Tenn. GA's X1604 Happy, loving couple wishes to 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PHONE ORDERS I PEOPLE CALL Call Laura X2545 Joe 277 ·9924 raise your white newborn with 
PANAMA CITY-BEACH ....'f22 
7NIGHTS
YOU. I am willing to pay some serious warmth and love. Can provide 
FORT LAUDERbALE -lfJ6
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why PLEASE sell me 2TN GAs. I'll pay bucks for Tennessee GA's. financial security and education. 
7 NIGHTS
1·800·255·0242 don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. BIG$$.Call Will at x3001. Please call Andy DeBartolo @ Medical/legal expenses paid. 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,_lffJ
Call me for a good time, 277-6885. 233-9588. Please answer our prayers by 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
I need 5 G.A.'s for the Tennessee For sale: 2 GA's/1 stu. calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800· 
MUSTANG ISLAND I •••.'128 
game. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS TENN. 3971. I NEED 2 TENN GAS-LAURA 456-2656. 


PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS ""I HAVE 2 TENNGA'S'"" WANTED: 1 or 2 dedicated 
Andrea X3720 WANTED. TOP$$$. 800·638-7655. 277-9158 
lith annual 
C.lebratlo-.1
Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call ""SEAN @ 289·6439""" WILL BUY TENN students to fill the Fri. night 
-

TOU FlEE JNFORIIAnQN & RESERVATIONS
Kevin@# 1407. Mike 288-7458 shift for COUNSELINE. If you
.___FO_R RENT I 
are interested in providing this 
_t~ILD!I~J..1·5tt1_
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR community service, call 
~~~~ 
219·291-7153 GAMES273-1802 GA TIXS.272-6306 TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831 239-7337. ~~ 
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 4, 1991
r 


Rolex 
continued from page 20 
Louderback, "but she had cramped up in the third set. She played very gutty tennis and the last set was closer than 6-0." 
The second round proved to be a breeze for the Irish, with all four players recording straight-set wins. In the third round, Harris and Schwab continued their strong play, sweeping past Michelle Greenan of Illinois State and Danielle Poradine of Indiana, respectively. Faustmann dropped the first set to Jamie Fielding of Michigan 6-4, but overcame the deficit to close out the match 6-3, 6-0. Jody Yin of Indiana, who would be a thorn in Notre Dame's side for most of the tournament, defeated Vitale 6-2, 6-2. 
Yin faced Faustmann in the quarterfinals and continuing her torrid play against Notre Dame, overpowered Faustmann 6-3, 6-0 to streak into the semi­finals.· Melissa Harris, who was not to drop a single set in the entire tournament, was victori­ous by a 6-4, 6-3 score over Jenny Moe of Minnesota. Schwab had a tougher time against Illinois' Lindsey Nimmo, falling behind 6-1, but was able to bear down and came away with a 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 victory. 
In the semifinals, Harris faced her teammate Schwab in a tournament for the second time this fall, and again came out on top, this time by a 6-2, 6-3 count. It was Harris who put an end to Yin's mastery of the Irish in the finals, claiming the title with a 6-1, 7-5 victory and preventing Yin from making it three in a row against the Irish. 
"It was a hard tournament," said Harris, "but I had a lot of fun. I tried to stay focused. I hate playing my teammates. You want it for her, but you want it for yourself also. Yin is a hard hitter with a good fore­hand, so I played smart, hitting it mostly to her backhand. I played very consistent, and winning a big tournament like this will help my confidence." 
Louderback said, "I wish Laura would have been in the other half of the draw and not have had to play Melissa in the semis. Melissa is playing very well. She kept her composure all weekend. She's had a great fall (17-2 in competition), beaten a girl in the top ten, and proven that she can play with anyone in the country." 
The Irish doubles teams were not so fortunate. Schwab and Vitale fell in the opening round 6-2, 6-2 to Story and Villena of Ohio State, while Faustmann and Tholen, seeded second, dropped their second round match to Yin and Epstein from Indiana 6-2, 6-4. 
Schwab, the lone freshman on the squad, is having a strong season so far and certainly will be one of the top freshmen in the region. She was runner up to Harris in the Irish Invitational earlier this fall, re­ceived an invitation to the All­American tournament in Los Angeles, and reached the semis at the Rolex. 
"I was very pleased with the way I played," said Schwab. "It's tough playing Melissa pe­riod-if you're from Notre Dame or not. It's hard playing a teammate. Melissa played really well the entire weekend. She deserved to win. I'm happy with the way the team is playing right now and I think we'll be very strong in the spring." 
Echoed Faustmann, "The competition here was very tough. All the top players from the region were there. I had some tough matches in the be­ginning which helped me in the later matches. We made a good showing there, and I think with each tournament, everybody is playing better and gaining con­fidence. These tough matches will be to our advantage." 

6. (6) Florida 7-1 591 1119 vs. Georgia 
7. 
(8) Alabama 7·1 525 1119 at Louisiana State 

8. 
(7) Penn State 7-2 516 1119 at Maryland 

9. 
(7) California 7·1 507 1119 at Oregon State 


2 

w 
10. (11) Iowa 7·1 461 1119 vs. Indiana 
11. 
(9) Nebraska 6-1-1 421 11/9 at Kansas 

12. 
(15) TexasA&M 5-1 403 11/16 vs. Arkansas 

13. 
(13) Tennessee 5-2 365 11/ 9 at Notre Dame 

14. 
(19) Clemson 5-1-1 335 1119 at North Carolina 

15. 
(21) East Carolina 7-1 296 1119 at So. Mississippi 

16. 
(16) Colorado 5-2-1 285 1119 at Oklahoma State 

17. 
(20) Syracuse 7-2 253 11/16 vs. Boston College 


3 

L~ 
18. (12) N.C. State 7·1 '127 1119 vs. Virginia 
19. 
(14) Ohio Stale 6-2 212 t 1119 at Minnesota 

20. 
(18) Ol<lahoma 6-2 190 1119 at Missouri 

21. 
(22) Baylor 7-2 177 11116 vs. Texas Tech '12. (23) Georgia 6-2 120 11/9 at Florida 


23. (-) UCLA 6-2 85 1119 at Stanford 24. (-) Indiana 5-2-1 27 t1/9al Iowa 
25. (-) Arkansas 5·3 18 1119 at Texas Tech 
4 

Others receiving votes: Virginra 14, Illinois tO, TCU 8, Brigham Young 
7. Bowling Green 7. Texas 5. Air Force 5, Northwestern 4, Tulsa 4. ~ North Carolina 3, San Diego Stale 3, Fresno Stale 3, Nevada-Reno 2. Kansas Stale 2, West Virginia 2. Mississippi Statal. Buffalo State .5. 
Bold Indicates NO opponent Schools participating: Alabama Anzona, Arizona State, Ball State. Brigham Young, Colorado. Columbia. Cornell. Duke, Florida, Florida State, Illinois, Indiana. Kansa·s. Miami, Michigan. Nebraska. Notre Dame. Oregon. Oregon Stale. Penn. Penn State. Purdue, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virorf1ra. Wisconsin. 
<he Observer/Brendan Htogan 
Plo. Noxt 

(1) 
721 1119 vs. South Carolina 

(3) 
686 11/9 at Southern Cal 


3. 
(2) Miami 7-0 676 1119 vs. West Virginia 

4. 
(4) Michigan 7·1 639 11/9 vs. Northwestern 

5. 
(5) Notre Dame 8·1 598 1119 vs. Tennessee 



Middies 
continued from page 20 
guard Aaron Taylor to prance into the end zone unscathed, and the Irish led 17-0 at the half. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz had nothing but praise for Mirer, saying, "I think he's the most underrated quarterback in the country. He does the things he has to do. He is a fine, fine quarterback." 
Navy took the second half kickoff and drove all the way to the Irish 31 before facing a fourth down and five. The 
Midshipmen went for the first down instead of attempting a field goal and came up short again, this time as defensive end Anthony Peterson sacked Van Matre for a two yard loss. 
The Irish offense responded by taking the ball 66 yards for another score, highlighted by Dawson's diving 37 -yard grab, made after adjusting to the wind. After taking the ball to the Navy 13, Mirer, with excel­lent protection from the offen­sive line and strong blocks from Bettis and Rodney Culver, again found Smith, this time all alone in the back of the end zone. Hentrich's PAT stretched the Irish lead to 24-0. 
It was the same old story for the Navy offense, as they were able to drive down the field be­fore stalling in potential scoring position. The Irish defense gave up 234 rushing yards to a ball­controlling Midshipmen of­fense, but came up with the stops when they had to to keep Navy off the scoreboard. This time, on fourth and six, Demetrius DuBose tackled tight end Kevin Hickman three yards short of the first down. 
Tony Smith, who finished with six catches for 100 yards, came down with a ball tipped by Navy linebacker Mark Ellis, turning it into a 15-yard gain. An over-the-shoulder reception by Tony Brooks for 30 yards and a 16 yard Brooks run up the middle set up first and goal at the eight yard line. Three
-plays later, Bettis plowed 
"I don't really care what we do," said Mirer when asked whether he was glad to be able to put his throwing arm to work. "I like to be able to go out there and do something. If it's running the ball I'm going to run hard and if it's throwing, I'm going to try and throw as good as I can. It's good to be able to move the ball down the field. Whatever it takes to get in the end zone." 
Reggie Brooks capped the scoring on the next Irish drive, scampering in from three yards out. The touchdown was set up by his 65-yard dash down the right sideline on the previous 
_play. The play was whistled 
dead as the official claimed Brooks stepped out at the three, but television replays showed that he did not go out, and should have had a 68-yard touchdown run. 
After the game, Holtz ex­pressed concern about the team's play and seemed uncer­tain how they would perform next weekend against Tennessee. 
"Navy controlled the football more than we would like and kept us from running the foot­ball, which was disappointing," said Holtz. "We don't like that. I'm concerned about our defen­sive line, about our defense in general. We just have to get better fundamentally." 
"I don't know how we can compete with Tennessee's tremendous speed and the ver­satility of their offense," con­tinued Holtz. "(They) are a very explosive team. We aren't going to score a lot of points against them. I'm already worried about Tennessee." 
The fifth-ranked Irish face Tennessee, Penn State, and Hawaii to finish out the season. Should they win these remain­ing games, they would un­doubtedly be in a position to compete for the national cham­pionship. Many bowl represen­tatives were on hand for the Navy game, and the Fiesta Bowl staff seemed particularly interested in having the Irish make a return trip to Tempe. 
"Notre Dame is doing a very good job," said Fiesta Bowl representative Larry Gunning. "We respect Notre Dame to the nth degree, and out most wanted matchup would be Notre Dame and the Florida State-Miami winner. I think that game would have national championship implications." 
Though Holtz maintained that the Irish are a bowl team, he refuses to look ahead, citing that, "Our attitude has to be let's take care of the task at hand and then go from there." 

UNIVERSITY FORUM Homosexuality at a Catholic University 
Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Comminee
Graduate Student Union &Intellectual Life Committee Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Commission 
& 

Student Union Board 
Forum
Ideas and Issues Commission 
Is non-recognition ofa ·rhe Homosexual Person homosexual organization and inconsistent with the mission =:atholic Moral Teaching ofa Catholic university? 
Rev. John Harvey, O.S.F.S. A Discussion/Debate 
Ralph M. Mcinerny 
Professor of Philosophy Hayes-Healy Auditorium Room 122 
7:30p.m. Lawrence J. Bradley 
Assistant Professor of Management
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Father Harvey has over 35 years of experience in the pastoral care of hor· •sexual men and women. He is the director of Courage. a spiritual Galvin Life Science Building 
SUJ ·rt group for Carholic homosexual men and women with chapters Galvin Auditorium, Rrn. 283 loca·~d across the United States. He has written extensively on the moral and •astoral issues raised by homosexuality. These writings include over 40 scho arly articles, two shorter works, A Spirirual Plan to Redirect One's 7:30p.m. Life rnd Pastoral Care and rhe Homosexual. and a recenc book entitled The 
Wednesda.r6, 1991 
H= =m; '"="' N~ Th;..C.. n
..tiQ '"'" '""· 

through the right side from the one, capping a 72-yard drive and extending the score to 31-0 Irish. 

--------------, 
~ 
i 

I Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page 15 I 
I 
I 
I I 


Irish hockey opener delayed by power outage 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Thn hoekny game between the Blugolds of Wiseonsin-Eau Clairn and Notre Damn was rnminisennt of the Boston Bruins and Edmonton Oilers StaniHy Cup game of a few years ago. The Joyce ACC, like the Boston (iarden, experiHnced a power failure that canceled the game. 
The Irish and the Blugolds were to have finished the game on Saturday morning, but due to nxtenuating factors, the 

Women's cross country places second at MCCs 
BY JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross-country tnam finished a disappointing sHctmd to host Loyola in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships, which was run in Chicago on Friday night. 
The Irish expected to run away with the meet and the conference championship, espe­cially since they had beaten top competitor Loyola earlier in the season. 
Unfortunatnly, the top finisher for the Irish crossed the line at fourth. while Loyola eommandnd the top two spots and won the eonfnrence by two points. 

Announcing Our New Instant Cash &Check Card 
savings account at ATMs • Purchases deducted from throughout the world. your checking account. 
• Detailed description of each

Use It Instead of 
purchase on your monthly 

Writing a Check 
checking statement. 

• Use at merchants where VISA® is accepted, worldwide. 
Stop in at any Norwest Bank Office to talk to us about an Instant Cash & Check Card. 
Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
© IWI Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. Equal Opportunity Lender Mcmhcr FDIC 
"We underestimated Loyola's ability," said freshman Stefanic Jensen. 
Freshman Eva Flood contin­ued her outstanding 1991 cam­paign by leading the Irish, as she has in all but one of Notre Dame's five meets. Notre Dame's senior leader, Diana Bradley, finished 5th in the con­ference while Jensen, who fin­ished first for the Irish last week, ended up at 6th. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly, upset by his team's lack of in­tensity during the meet, said, "Our kids just didn't compete." 
"We weren't really prepared for the meet," added Jensen. "Loyola really wanted to win this meet, and conference." 
The adverse weather condi­tions in the Windy City could have had something to do with the Irish's baffiing performance. 
A downcast Connelly noted, "It was cold and windy and they let that get to them." 
Notre Dame has one more meet-the Distict IV Meet-which determines which teams make it to the NCAA Championships. 
One good thing might come out of the MCC disappointment as the Irish harriers will try to use the meet as an incentive to work and train harder for the districts, which will be run in Bloomington in two weeks. 
"It's definitely going to pre­pare us for districts," said Jensen. 


Offense 
continued from page 20 
routes and got open, and that's all you can ask for,"said Mirer. 
Mirer not only performed well in the adverse weather, but also managed to break a record along the way. Mirer's pass to Jerome Bettis in the second quarter tied him the record for touchdowns in one season, with 16, along with Irish greats Joe Theismann and John Huarte. Mirer chalked up number 17 in the third quarter on a 13-yard pass to Tony Smith in the left corner of the endzone, giving him the record. Mirer's 303 yards passing was a career best for the Irish hurler. 
"I don't know how many times I've sat at the press con­ference, even though he didn't have what you all thought was a great day, that I just think he's the most underrated quar­terback in the country," stated Holtz. "We are just not going to 
SPORlS BRIEFS 


be a passing football team of forty times a game unless pno­ple defend in the manner that they (Navy) did." 
Mirer and the Notre Dame receivers don't seem to be dis­appointed that it won't be a wide open offense. 
"I don't really care what we do," Mirer replied. "I like to bn able to go out there and do something. If it's run the ball, I'm going to run hard and if it's throwing I'm going to try to throw it the best I can. It's good to be able to move the ball down the field, whatever it takes to get the ball in the end­zone." 
And that is the attitude that l.ou Holtz and his Irish team have adopted for this season. If the running game is stopped, they will pass, and if the pass­ing game isn't there, they will run. The Irish players don't care how they win, only that they win. 
"We just wanted to do what ever it took to win the game," responded Lake Dawson. 
game was completflly cancflled. 
Thll home opener for the Irish started out as an excellent, hard hitting contest. The Irish struck first in the first period, as freshman Chris Tschupp lifted one into the upper right corner on a feed from Tim Litchard. 
The Blugolds evened the score on a power play goal with 25 seconds left in the first period. Brent Whiteside blasted a shot past Irish goalie Brent Lothrop. 
But only 15 seconds later, the power went off for the first time. The teams went into the locker rooms shortly before power was restored. The power went out for good in the second period, leaving a packed house disoriented. The decision was made about 20 minutes later to cancel the game. 
Notre Dame will face New Hampshire this Friday and Saturday. Hopefully the Irish will' not see another Boston Garden disaster, such as the famous "fog game" where fog completely covered the ice, for New Hampshire. 
Use It For Instant Cash • Present it like a credit card at 
• Access your checking or point of purchase. 
•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Recsports 
sponsored yoga classes begin tonight in room 114 of the Loftus Center. The classes run from 6:30-8 p.m. and will be held on six consecutive Monday evenings. There is a $15 fee. Pre-registration and pre-payment is required. Sign up in the Recsports office in the J.A.C.C. 

•Rowing 
Club: Attention all rowing members, thern will be a meeting this Wednesday. See Sean, Cesar, or Pete for details. Members are also reminded of their erg-a-thon obligation. 

•A 
women's safety and self-defense course, beginning Wednesday, November 6 is being oiTered by Heesports. The ob­jective of this course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Basic karate, judo, and wrestling will be introduced as well as strategies for avoiding dangerous situations and dealing with threatening circumstances. Class meets 12 times on Monday and Wednesday nights from 7 to 8:15p.m. 


Somewhere a child lies crying Somewhere an old man shivers in the dark Somewhere a family's dreams 
burn to the ground Please support your American local chapter. Red Cross 
Because somewhere is closer than you think. 
f 
I 
' page 16 The Observer 
I 
I I SMC volleyball finishes with loss I Lorton leads Belles in second ye~r of Division Ill play 
f By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer
' 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team (8-15) wrapped up its second NCAA Division III season with a five-game loss to Hillsdale College Thursday night, 11-5,15-3,15-8, 5-15,11­15. 
The Belles came out enthusi­astically in the first game, but the Hillsdale service was too strong for the Belles and the team could not pass well off of Hillsdale 
"It was a good game for us because we got to see what kind of offense was good and our passing wasn't", said Saint Mary's volleyball coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles momentum main­tained into the second and third games, as the team's passing quickly came together. Saint Mary's took advantage of Hillsdale's exposed middle. The Belles won to go up 2-1. 
"We try to run a quick offense and it threw Hillsdale off. We were definitely in control of game three," said Schroeder­Biek. 
Hillsdale once again took ad­vantage of poor Saint Mary's passing in the last two games. In game four the Saint Mary's 
' serve reception broke down al­lowing their opponents to im­mediately score five unbroken points. In game five, the Belles battled Hillsdale and led 7-3. Hillsdale tied the score at 10-10 . After that. the two teams struggled to take control of the game and the match. But Hillsdale service once again troubled the Belles who were unable to return the ball. 
Hillsdale went on to win the 
match. 
"The key to our loss was the 
fourth game. We had six or 
seven passing errors in a row. It 
turned us around and we lost 
the momentum. We couldn't dig 
ourselves out of it and they 
were a good team," explained 
junior captain Karen Lorton. 
"Everything you do is set up 
with a pass. We just couldn't do 
it," said Schroeder-Biek. [The 
loss] was only because we had a 
passing breakdown. When our 
passing breaks down, we lose." 
Lorton led the Belles with 17 
kills, 17 digs, 15 blocks and 10 
points. Sophomore setter 
Michelle Martino led with 38 
assists and 15 points while 
sophomore left blocker Kim 
Branstetter added eight kills, 22 
digs and 10 points. Mary 
Wheeler, sophomore middle hit­
ter, tallied eight kills and eight 
blocks. 
Although the team's season record does not reflect success, there is one shining star on the -team. Captain Lorton, the mid­dle hitter from South Bend, led the Belles in most categories. Lorton is third in the nation for hitting percentage at 44 percent and kills per game with 3.67. She leads the nation with blocks 
per game at 2.33. 
"Karen has had a tough role 
this year. She is the team cap­
tain, with a new coach. She had 
to learn my ways," said 
Shroeder-Biek. "But she set an 
example for the team with her 
hard work and desire to win. 
Karen has a lot of potential that 
is still untapped. But she's 
definitely All-American 
calibre." 
But Lorton is more modest about her performance. Lorton focuses more on her weak­nesses than on her strengths. 
"As far as my game goes, I'm fairly happy. But I'm not happy with my consistency. I had poor blocking last year. so I worked hard on that. Same with my kills and setting. , " explained Lorton. "But I'm not consistent with these. One game I do well on hitting, but the poor block­ing. I want more consistency." 
Lorton says she looks forward to the spring tournaments because· the team will get a chance to play against stronger teams than they did last spring. According to Lorton, it is the stronger teams that make her and the Belles a stronger team. 
"My game will be better be­cause our competition will be better," said Lorton. "The team will also benefit because the better competition, the better you play." 
Although Lorton was re­cruited by Division I schools, she is very pleased with her de­cision to play at the Division III level. 
"In my senior year, a lot of coaches saw me and wanted me to play Division I. I was so scared," said Lorton. "But I wasn't ready to put that much time into it. Saint Mary's was the compromise. I really wanted to go here and the competition in Division III is tough." 
Overall, Shroeder-Biek is pleased with the team's season. Although she originally ex­pected more out of her first season with Saint Mary's, she reflects her satisfaction with the young team's performance in a new, upgraded division. 

"Originally, I was expecting a better season. But I'm happy when I think about how we played, our schedules. We played nationally-ranked teams. We could have beat them if we used our middle hit­ters, like Karen, more. We made errors we shouldn't have made," explained Schroeder­Biek. "I am expecting a lot out of the girls next year. We had only three starters back from 
Monday, November 4, 1991 
last year. But there's a lot of talent. They now are adjusted to each others' playing styles and a new coach. 
Overall, the team hit at a poor 10 percent for the season. But the team averaged 7.16 kills per game; 9.09 assists per game, for 38 percent; 90 per­cent service with 1.81 service aces per game; 12.54 digs per game and the Belles led the na­tion with 5.58 blocks per game. 

Underdogs Nevada, Northwestern prevail on 'hopeless' Saturday 
(AP)-This college football weekend belonged in the Hall of Fame for the Hopeless. 
There was a second straight victory for once woeful Northwestern against one of the Big Ten conference's tradi­tional heavyweights. 
There was a third straight win for often victimized Vanderbilt, who marched into West Point and capitalized on early Army mistakes. 
There was 1-6 Utah State, playing like a powerhouse in­stead of powderpuff to beat previously undefeated Fresno State. 
But most of all, there was Nevada, which merely produced the greatest comback in NCAA history, ignoring a 49­14 third quarter deficit to 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Rajlpasses 
issued here. 

•lrtemat'lldentity 
cards. ••orldvvide adventure t~. 


•~yel gear and guic:lebo&s-. ~traw:l advice_ -


Cduncil TriMd 
1153 N_ Deaborn St., ~d Roar Chicago,ll60610 

311·951-0585 


Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel Catalog! 

defeat Weber State 55-49 with a 
41-point turn-around. Hopeless, indeed. Northwestern used a 7-yard 
touchdown pass from Len Williams to Mark Benson with 
1:48 to play to defeat Michigan State 16-13. The victory, fol­lowing last week's triumph over Illinois, gave Northwestern two straight victories for the first time in five years. The Wildcats are 3-5 for the season, 2-3 in the conference, while Michigan State, co-champions of ther Big Ten a year ago, are 1-7 and 1-4 in the league. 
Vanderbilt's Marcus Wilson .ran for three TDs and passed for another as the Commodores destroyed Army 41-10 and pushed their record to 4-5 after winning just one game a year ago. The Cadets lost fumbles inside their own 30 on their first two possessions and Vandy led 14-0 before the game was four minutes old. 
Floundering Utah State, with one win in seven games and playing so poorly that coach Chuck Shelton resigned, rallied to beat Fresno State 20-19 on a 45-yard field goal by Sean Jones with 51 seconds to play. It was the first loss of the season for No. 25 Fresno State and a nice going away gift for Shelton. 
Then there was Nevada, trailing 42-14 at halftime and then 49-14 with 12:16 left in the third quarter against Weber State. With nothing to recommend their chances and their No. 1 ranking in Division IAA in distinct jeopardy, the Wolf Pack launched a remark­able seven-touchdown come­back to win their ninth straight game. 
"After they ran for that third­quarter touchdown to make it 49-14, I thought it would take a miracle," Nevada coach Chris Ault said. "Well, it was a miracle." 
Backup quarterback Chris Vargas, playing just over two quarters, completed 22 of 38 passes for 346 yards and two TDs while wide receiver Chris Singleton caught eight passes for 225 yards. 
Meanwhile, Bowling Green became the first team to clinch a bowl berth, nailing down a trip to the California Bowl by winning the Mid-American Conference with a 17-7 victory over Miami of Ohio. 

~........................................................................................................ 
3THINGS 
TO CONSIDER 
BEFORE BUYING 
ACOMPUTER 
IN YOUR 








YEAR. 
---------------------------------------------~ 
~
. 
Monday, November 4, 1991 The Observer page17 

The Cllaetverl E.G. Baiev 
Reggie Brooks makes a valiant attempt to stay inbounds on his 65-yard run in the third quarter. 
Men and women swimmers successful in MCC meet, ND Relays 
Irish trail Michigan by 19 in total wins 
BY ANTHONY KING AND touchdowns, giving him 17 for team now is a bowl team. RICH SZABO the season, with three more Sports Writers games left to play. The previous "I do think that today enabled 
record of 16 was shared by Bob us to a be a bowl team. I think 
Saturday's 38-0 victory over Williams (1949), John Huarte we'll go to a bowl. But, we're Navy marked the 700th football (1964) and Joe Theismann not near the bowl we want to win for Notre Dame, a mile­(1970). be in. What I meant by the bowl stone achieved by only one *** we want to be in, is the oppo­other team, Michigan, which Linebacker John Covington nent we would like to play. I has 719 victories, but has suffered a mildly strained knee don't care if it's the Toilet Bowl played nine more seasons of in the third quarter, and though of Flushing, New York," said football overall. In their 103rd he could have returned to the Holtz. season of football, the Irish game, was held out for the *** 
• 

have a total record of 700-207-remainder by the coaching Tony Smith had a career best 
40. staff. Updating some other Irish receiving game, catching six "I meant to give a game ball injuries, offensive tackle Justin passes for 100 yards. Smith to the University and I forgot. It Hall (broken toe vs. USC) should caught the touchdown that is a monumental step, a big return to practice Monday; broke the record for Mirer, and occasion for us," said Notre safety Greg Davis (torn knee made a spectacular grab on a Dame coach Lou Holtz. "The ligaments vs. Stanford) and tipped ball. Lake Dawson made main thing I'm concerned about defensive tackle Bryant Young it two straight games with an right now is getting 701." (cracked ankle bone vs. Air aerobatic catch. This time *** Force) will most likely be back Dawson went up over Navy de­
With his three touchdown for either the Tennessee or fensive back Chris Hart for a passes against Navy, Irish Penn State games. lofty Mirer pass, and came quarterback Rick Mirer broke down with pigskin and a 48­
*** the single-season record for Lou Holtz believes that his yard gain for the Irish. 
By BRIAN DINEEN throughout the day-it was a 
"It was a good measurement chance for MCC foes to evaluate Sports Writer good experience for ourselves," of our ability-coach gave us each other in a kind of pre-sea­said Welsh. the chance to swim different son format. According to Welsh, The Fighting Irish swim team Not only was it a good expe­events and get a lot of people in the Irish can expect heavy began the Homecoming week­rience, but it showed that the a lot of races," said competition from Butler, Xavier, nod in winning style Friday. Irish are going to be an MCC Birmingham, who recorded a and Evansville on both the 
Both the men's and women's force. Because of Friday's personal best in winning the men's and women's side. tnarns rm:orded impressive wins power outages, official com­200 meter freestyle. Furthermore, he sees Loyola as over Midwest Collegiate puter scores were temporarily "We trained real hard all most improved in the confer­Conference rivals in the dual lost. The results, however, week, and didn't rest for the ence. meet in the morning and the were quite apparent. meet," said Becky Wood, a Notre Dame next faces Notre Dame Helays which took "In head to head competition, member of the women's team. Western Ontario this Friday in plaee in the afternoon. we would have won four worn­"The meet gave us the chance Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
According to Notre Dame ens' and three mens' meets to see what our depth is like, to "The MCC meet was a great
Jim Birmingham

head eoach Tim Welsh, Friday's from what we saw Friday," said see how strong we'll be. Also, it opportunity to get everyone performance was a good chance Welsh. records were set on Friday in­was a good chance to relax and used to the meet format," said for the whole team to get lots of In the NO relays the men lost cluding the 400 meter mens' have a good time-that's always Roger Rand, a member of the 
racing in. only one race while the women and womens' medleys. important," said Wood, a men's team. Based on the suc­
"We have a big squad, so this swept their portion. Men's co-captain Jim member of the winning 200 cess of the Irish Friday, they was really exciting. Everyone Besides the overall team per­Birmingham was very pleased medley and 400 IM relays. can start getting used to a lot of got at least four races in formance, five separate relay with the results of the meet. The meets were a good attention. 
We'd like to suggest rhat you ,give your NcXTstations arc moving not only into put your NeXTstation to work first and read In fact, your NcXTstation can ~witch computer rhe ~a me ccrrdrd consider•rtion teaching labs but into dorm r"oms •ts well. the instruction manual later. cfl'unkssly among any of over I 00 1\icXT that you ~ivc your majo1. With a minimum ofH l'vlll of memory just don't be misled by our simplicity. applications. Revolutionary applications More. acrually. and IOS M B of hard disk storage standard, Behind that comfortably intuitive graphi-like Lotus'" lmprov'", Adobe"'lllusrrator", 
After all, ir typically d• 1Csn't cost a couple you'lllle hard pressed w rU11 ,>lH of roo111 for ceil imert:rce residcs thc full I'"" cr of \\ordl'crfccr , ·1 \1pl Jraw·•. and ~. dd '(; . of rho~1s:~nd d:1llars to"' 1tch YOUR all your accumulated kn~wlcdge. YOUR UNIX"', the ope.rating system AND ¥OUR Software you can put to maJors. So keep SOPHOMORE YE And with a of cho1ce among I~ work on your school in mind that the AR. Motorola JUNIOR YEAR. scientists, re-SENIOR YEAR. work today. 
bargain computer that ll<>rks just tine li1r 68040 processor, that clocks in at a full IS searchers and business professionals. And for many days thereafter. freshman English may seem a bit MIPS, you won't find your NeXTstation Unlike personal computer operating sys-So visit your local campus computer re­
-

lightwcight when you're knee-deep in slowing down at the precise moment your tems, like MS-DOS'", with UNIX you can 
seller for a NeXTstation dcmonst~a­
1': 

statistics. Or engineerin.t: equations. Or workload is picking up. print a term paper, evaluate a complex tion. And get an idea just how research projects. What's more, it won't take four years to spreadsheet, and graph your latest lab re­exciting the next four years arc Which may explain why more and more learn to use one. Don't be surprised if you sults, all at full speed. All at the same time. going to be. ® 

.---~---------~ 
I ~ 
I page 18 The Observer Monday, November 4, 1991 r 

' Flanner, Zahm survive first round 
I 
' 
I 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Seeth, Flanner rector and coach advantage of the filed position,
I 
Sports Writer Seeth called, "The best we have found receiver Rick Rios open
~ 
had all year." down field for a 45-yard gain to
I Planner cruised to a 8-0 vic~ Planner faces Parseghian di­the Fisher seven yard line. tory over Off-Campus at Stepan vision champion Keenan next After two runs for a short Field Sunday in the first round Sunday in the second round of gain, Hammond rolled to his of the men's interhall football playoff action. right and threw a perfect pass playoffs. to receiver Peter Couri for the The game's only score came Zahm 14, Fisher 6 team's final score. on a 35-yard reverse by re­The Zahm offense used pin­ceiver Mike Thompson in the point passing by Chris "Both Matt and Chris played second quarter. Quarterback Hammond and strong running well," said Zahm coach Kevin Clarke Warren found his other by Matt Seng to keep Fisher Casey. "Peter Couri also made receiver, Scott McCarthy, for the guessing in its 14-6 playoff vic­some key receptions." two point conversion. tory. Zahm faces Carroll next The Planner defense did the Seng struck first for Zahm on Sunday. The Vermin are the rest by never allowing Off­a 10-yard run, which was set only undefeated team in inter­Campus inside their 40 yard up after an interception at the hall play, but Casey feels no line and collecting five sacks. Fisher 15-yard line. pressure to change his teams Planner's defensive line, com­Both teams combined for nine strategies against a tough 
posed of freshmen and senior first half penalties to withhold Carroll squad. 
Mike D'Mato, continually hur­any offensive threats. "We'll stick to the same things ried an experienced Off-Campus At the start of the second half, that have worked before," said offense. Zahm's defense forced Fisher to Casey. "What we have been 
punt, giving the Moose offense doing has been successful, The victory capped a week of superb field position near especially in the past few practice which Father William midfield. Hammond, taking weeks." 

Men's x-country takes MCC crown 
By JENNIFER MARTEN what we had to do." quite numbing especially since Sports Writer Notre Dame coach Joe Piane the team ran in shorts with no was generally pleased with the running tights. 
Picture this: 30 degrees with performance of his team. 25 mph winds out of the The rest of the team all fin­southwest in addition to snow "There were many bright ished in the top 25 with junior flurries. Perfect weather for a spots in our performance," said Nick Radkewich in 13th place, football game, but how about a Piane. "Coyle and McWilliams seniors Mike Drake in 15th five mile cross country race? ran very well again. J.T. Burke place, Kevin Keegan in 17th 
ran very well, John Cowan ran place, and Shawn Schneider in 
For the Notre Dame men's a bit better, and Nate Ruder 22nd place, and freshman J. R. cross country team, the had another solid race." Meloro in 23rd place. weather was a challenge this Burke ran a solid race and Loyola ran an excellent race weekend at the Midwestern finished in fourth place with a as a team a11d came very close Collegiate Conference time of 25:49. All the pieces fell to beating the Irish. Westphal Championships in Chicago, but into place for the junior at the hung back with his team as not quite as challenging as the championships. long as he could to keep his tough Loyola squad which they "He made a commitment to teammates on the pace. The edged out by one point. running the way he is capable strategy was successful in that 
The All-American tandem of of running and it paid off," said the Bulldogs finished five in a junior John Coyle and sopho­Piane of Burke's performance. row behind Burke to claim fifth more Mike McWilliams worked Burke was not too suprised by through ninth places and help their special brand of cross the outcome of the race. their point total. country magic again this week­"I have put in a lot of work all end, except with different re­season long and everything just "Westphal ran differently sults. paid off," said Burke. "I was than he's run before. He tried to 
This time, McWilliams came able to run five whole miles keep the group together and away with the individual cham­rather than three whole miles then with a mile and a half left pionship with a time of 25:19. in a five mile race." he tried to catch Coyle and Coyle crossed the line a mere Freshmen John Cowan and McWilliams," said Piane. "He two seconds behind him and Nate Ruder turned in impres­did what he needed to get a vic­National Catholic champion Jim sive performances despite the tory for them." 
The Observer/John Rock Westphal of Loyola finished just weather and finished 1Oth and Pack running has been a 
Flanner only needed this touchdown run to defeat Off-Campus 
Sunday in the interhall playoffs. 

seconds after Coyle. 11th, respectively. strategy of the Irish for a long 
"It was nothing spectacular," time and it was interesting to 
said Coyle of the win. "We did "The weather conditions cer­see the table turned. meet at Indiana University in tainly have to be taken into "Loyola ran the-way we two weeks. Notre Dame should consideration. Everyone's per­should have run," said Cowan be ready for the meet based on formance was dependent on referring to an early splintering this weekend's performances


Kentucky 
how they ran in the weather," of the Irish pack. and with senior captain Pat -said Cowan. The weather was "Westphal really pulled them Kearns back in the lineup. 


continued from page 20 
Sunday's win completed an 11-4-2 regular season for the Irish, a complete turnaround from last year's 4-11-.3 mark. 
"It's very rewarding to com­pletely reverse our record," Berticelli said, "but the players deserve the credit because their the ones who ultimately have to go out on the field and win the games." 
There are still some games that remain to be won, how­ever, as the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment opens Thursday in Indianapolis. 
Notre Dame tied for second in the MCC with Loyola during the season, but because of a season-opening loss to the Ramblers, they will have to set­tle for the third seed in the tournament. 
The winner of the MCC tour­nament earns an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, but Berticelli isn't planning to make any changes. 
"We won't do anything differ­ently," he explained. "We'll just concentrate on the fundamen­tals and make sure we go into the tournament doing the basic things well." 


·WE ARE WHERE YOU ARE COME VISIT US 
SERVICES INCLUDE: HOURS: 
• 
resumes MON-THURS 8:00am-10:00pm 

• 
full service copier FRI 8:00am-5:00pm 

• 
duplexing SAT -closed ­SUNDAY 1 :00pm-10:00pm 

• 
collating 

• 
binding 

• 
color copying 


• 
transparencies ¢ FULL 


SERVICE COPIES
CDP copy center 

8112 x 11 20# White Paper
Hesburgh Library-just past the elevators 239-5251 Expires 11/29/91 

The Observer page 19

-.

SPELUNKER JAY HOSl FR 
IHe OCVICE WCIU. BE 
T6STIN6, TKt!N.SFERS 
ON£ PeRSONS Coiii5Cto05N£55 To T'HE OTftE.R. 1 N£6P 
ONE Mf!LE AND olll £ FE MilLE RJR 
TH£ TRIAL RUN. 
Suddenly, Fish and Wildlife agents burst In on Mark Trail's poaching operation. 

CAMPUS 
~Edward Julius Collegiate CW8713 
What's Happening




BILL & TED'S 
SMC

OGUS JOURNEY 
NOV. 4-6th 8 & I Op.m. CARROLL AUDITORIUM ADMISSION $1 
SPONSORED BY SA 
ACROSS 
1 Reef 
6 Ancient Italian 12 Well-balanced 13 -grounds15 Notorious queen 
(2 wds.) 18 Sma 11 demon 19 Mends 20 Japanese money21 Spanish rivers 23 Proverb 24 Sneaker part ~b Speed unit 26 Slangy diamonds 27 Roman road 28 Hygienic31 Tourist accessory33 Boston­34 Distort 35 College lecturer 38 Free from im­
purities42 Words of de­termination 43 Trigonometryabbreviation 44 Japanese monastery 
45 -antique46 Makes the first bid 48 Half of movie team 49 Mr. Whitney50 Part of a carpentry
joint51 Suffix for real 52 Well-known general
(3 wds.)57 Having floors 58 Those beyond help59 Sweet 60 A great number of 
DOWN 
1 Endurance 2 Barbed spear 3 Part of a kimono 4 Fermented drink 5 You can ­
horse ... 6 -cake 
7 Get up 8-vivant 9 Suffix for attract 
10 Potassium ­11 One who allures 12 Certain smiles 14 Biological classes 16 Points opposite to 
the zenith 17 "Best Actor" of 
1938 22 Payment24 Marine mollusks 29 Suffix for simple 30 Likely 31 College in L.A., 
Southern ­32 College major34 Sift, as grain35 Greg Louganis, 
et al. 36 Spotted cats 37 North American deer 38 Wicked person39 Laid a new floor 40 Pencil parts41 -"Inferno" 43 -Gonzales 46 Fine fur 47 Becomes tangled53 Work unit 54 Inlet 55 Bird of Mythology56 Watson and Crick 
discovery 

Monday 
• 

6 p.m. Prayer Service for those who are grieving at Holy Cross Hall Chapel. 
7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all Business and Arts and Letters seniors interested in discovering career opportunities with Northern Trust Bank. Foster Room, 3rd floor, LaFortune Center. 
7 p.m. Film, "Jules and Jim." Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:15 p.m. Film, "This is Spinal Tap." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Seminar, "Uneven Development and North-South Trade," Amitava Dutt, Kellogg Institute, Economics Department. Room C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

MENU 
NOTRE DAME 
-

Pot Roast a Ia Mode Baked Redfish Cheese Ravioli 


.­

Sports 
page 20 Monday, November 4, 1991 
Irish passing offense unloads against Navy, 38-0 
Mirer passes way into record book as Irish win 700th 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
The wind was blowing, the temperature was dropping and the footballs were flying as the Irish sank a scrappy Navy team 38-0 behind the passing of Rick Mirer and a bend-but-don't­break defense to record the 700th win in the history of Irish football. 
The game-time temperature was 27 degrees, with a wind­chill of minus-four, conditions more receptive to a bruising running game, not an aerial as­sault. 
But Notre Dame's vaunted ground attack was shut down by the Midshipmen, and it was Mirer's arm that paved the way to Notre Dame's first shutout since a 41-0 rout of Navy on November 4, 1989. 
"I admired their quarterback (Mirer) a lot before the game and I admire him more now. He went out there and did it when he had to do it,"' said Navy coach George Chaump. 
Mirer completed 17 passes in 23 attempts for 303 yards, a career-high, and three touch­downs as the Irish improved to 8-1. Navy, although outrushing 
Receivers make Mirer's task easier 
On a chilling day with negative wind chill temperatures and 30 to 40 mile an hour gusts of wind, one would certainly expect the normally ground-oriented Irish to try to grind out a victory. 

But when the smoke, or ANTHONY KING rather the frost, cleared 
Assistant Sports Editor
on the field Saturday, it was the Notre Dame--------­passing game that sunk the Naval Academy. 
Navy coach George Chaump, coming into the game 0-7, felt that stopping the powerful Irish running game was the only way to hang close. 
"We knew our defense was suspect all year," commented Chaump. "We went with an eight man front set-up to stop their run. They were only throwing 12 times a game and running very conservatively. And I have to give Rick the credit, when he had to go the pass in the most adverse conditions, he did. And they did it very successfully. It was the pass that beat us today." 
It was the eight man front of Navy that forced the normally conservative Irish offense to the air. With only three men deep in coverage, Mirer took advantage of the Naval defense. Mirer threw for 303 yards, hitting on 17 of 23 
-

Women's tennis clicks at Rolex 
Harris takes championship; 4 advance to Round of 16 


By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
With the best teams from the region converging on Madison, Wisconsin, for the Rolex Regionals, it was a good time for the Notre Dame women's tennis team to prove that they can compete with them. 
With the success of their sin­gles players throughout the tournament, it is safe to say that the Irish did just that, putting four of their five singles entrants into at the least the round of 16. 
i 
I 
For the Irish, Melissa Harris, continuing the stellar play that is sure to be rewarded with a jump in the rankings, captured 
l 
the championship, and with it the automatic invitation to the the Irish 234-180 yards and holding the ball for over ten minutes longer, faltered when in scoring position and re­mained winless for the season at 0-8. 
After trading punts to open the game, Mirer hit a key third­down pass to a diving Tony Smith for 13 yards and a first down. Later on that same drive, Mirer again found Smith, this time for 22 yards, after a play­action fake. Smith was brought down at the two, and two plays later Mirer tossed the ball to a wide-open Derek Brown in the end zone to put the Irish up 7-0. 
Navy was able to pound the all on the ground on the ensu­ing drive, working all the way down to the Irish 18 as the first quarter ended. This marked the 11th straight game that Notre Dame has not yielded a touch­down in the opening period. However, as was to be the case most of the day, the Middies' offense faltered on fourth down after deciding to pass up a field goal attempt. Inside linebacker Brian Ratigan nailed Navy Quarterback Jason Van Matre six inches short of the first down and the Irish took over possession. 


Laura Schwab 
National Indoor Championships in Minneapolis next February. 
Also, Laura Schwab made it to the semifinals before having the unfortunate task of facing Harris. Christy Faustmann reached the quarterfinals, and passes, including three touchdowns. What was truly amazing about Mirer's performance were the conditions he threw in. 

"I admired their quarterback a lot before the game, but I admire him more now that I saw what he did," complemented Chaump. "He didn't care about the wind. I think without Mirer, without him making the big play, we may hang with them a little bit." 
"The ball spiraled and tends to move when the ball is in the air, so you have to concentrate a little bit harder on catching the ball, looking it in," commented Lake Dawson on the wind factor. 
The Irish receiving corps helped Mirer by catching almost anything thrown their way. Split end Tony Smith turned in an exceptional performance, snagging six ball for a total of 100 yards, which was a career high for Smith. Flankers Ray Griggs and Lake Dawson each grabbed two passes and tight end Derek Brown had three receptions. Lake Dawson made another outstanding catch on a bomb that the wind took for a ride. Dawson outleaped Navy defensive back Chris Hart for the ball and came down with the pigskin for a 48 yard gain. 
"The guys caught the ball well and ran good 
see OFFENSE I page 15 
Mirer worked his magic again, hitting Smith for 23 yards and a leaping Lake Dawson for a 48 yard gain. Four plays later, Craig Hentrich kicked his thin} field-goal of the season to put the Irish up by ten. 
"It was a hard day with the wind and the cold," said Dawson, finished with two catches for 85 yards. "I thought we would run the ball, but Navy did an excellent job of putting people up front. When we had to throw the football, we were able to execute." 
The Irish defense held Navy on two more drives, and with 
1:45 remaining in the first half, Mirer led the Irish 62 yards in seven plays to put another score on the board. He found Smith for a 14 yard gain, fol­lowed by two completions to flanker Ray Griggs totalling 25 yards. 
Derek Brown then rambled 19 yards, breaking two tackles before being stopped on the Navy nine-yard line. Jerome Bettis scored on a screen pass on the next play, following a crushing block from offensive 
see MIDDIES I page 14 
Terri Vitale bowed out in the round of 16. 
Harris and Vitale started out strong, winning their first­round matches in straight sets. Laura Schwab won a three-set­ter over Kelly Story of Ohio State 4-6, 6-1, 6-1, while Christy Faustmann also had a three-set match, dropping the opening set 6-1 to Alicia Leone of Michigan State before re­bounding to take the next two, 6-2, 6-3. Lisa Tholen fell in the opening round to Holly Harris of Wisconsin 2-6, 6-3, 6-0, but played better than the score indicates. 
"Lisa lost in the first round," said Irish coach Jay 
see ROLEX I page 14 
Rick Mirer became the first quarterback in touchdown passes in a season. 
Irish soccer teams on virge of NCAA berths Men overcome Kentucky in finale 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team battled fierce winds and frigid temperatures on the way to a 2-0 win over Kentucky in their regular season finale Sunday afternoon at Alumni Field. 
Kentucky, in its first season at the varsity level, brought a three game winning streak into Sunday's action. 
It was a struggle for the Irish from the beginning. Without the services of starters Kenyon Meyer, Tim Oates and Tont Richardson, the offense couldn't convert on ten first half shots, while the defense held the Wildcats (10-9) scoreless on just two first period shots. 
"Considering the conditions and the fact that three of our top players didn't play, it was 

Women return from Florida winless 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
ORLANDO-The 13th­ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team gained some valuable experience on its weekend trip to Florida, where the Irish took on the 11th-rated Central Florida Lady Knights and the Florida International Golden Panthers. 
On Saturday, the Irish fell to the Lady Knights, 3-0, on a shortened St. Claire Field on the Central Flori"da campus. The field usually plays 120 yards long, but was shortened to 106 yards to benefit Central Florida's short style of play. This also prevented Notre Dame, which prefers to play the ball long, from 
a good result," second-year coach Mike Berticelli com­mented. "A lot of players rose to the occasion." 
Two of the players who rose to the occasion in the second half were Aurelio Prado and Jean Joseph. With the handful of fans that remained fearing overtime and another thirty minutes in the cold, Prado took a pass from Joseph and put the Irish in front to stay with 15:00 remaining. 
Four minutes later, Joseph added a goal of his own on an assist from freshman Keith Carlson. With a goal and an assist, Joseph raised his team leading point total to 26 despite sitting out the first five games of the season with a leg injury. 
see KENTUCKY I page 18 
getting behind the Lady Knight defense. 
"We got beat by a team that played outstanding. According to their coach it was their best game of the year," said disap­pointed Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "It was a combina­tion of them playing well, and us not playing well." 
Central Florida, a perennial national power, came out psyched for its final home game of the year and used its big game experience to its advantage. Both of these factors led to an almost flawless performance by the Lady Knights. 
"I think the pressure got to us a little bit," Petrucelli com­mented. "It was the first time 
see FLORIDA I page 13 







