
VOL. XXIV NO. 18 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1991 ! THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR'I'S . 
HPC plans for return of Weekend Wheels program 
By PAUL PEARSON & STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writers 
The Hall Presidents Council (IIPC) voted unanimously Tues­day night to restart the The Weekend Wheels bus program, which transports students from off-campus bars back to cam­pus and to Campus View Apartments, by September 28th. 
The program, which has been sponsored by HPC since Its in­ception in 1988, used to use lo­cal school buses and drivers to transport students. These buses can no longer be used due to an Indiana law, passed In 1986 and now being enforced by the state highway patrol, which forbids school buses to be used on state highways as anything other than school buses. 
Since learning that the school buses can no longer be used, HPC co-chairman Charlie James has looked into other options for continuing the program. He contacted United Limo, which told him that they would charge $158/day for the service. This, James said, would be "about twice as much" as they paid the school buses (which cost $150/weekend), and would not be covered by the $4,200 in the HPC budget set aside for the program. 
Tuesday night HPC passed a proposal to use the entire $4,200 budget for flrst semester expenses only. Furthermore, they decided to set aside $4,500 in profits from The Shirt sales in order to keep the service running next semester. 
James said he was "very pleased" with the decision, but he hopes the extra money won't have to be used. "Next semester I hope we can find funding from some alternate source other than HPC because that money is supposed to be for hall allocations." 
James said the decision con­stituted a "big sacriflce" by the dorms, and is, "a message to the administration that this is a very important student need." 
Before the meeting, James and HPC co-chairman Kevin Roxas talked with James 
O'Meara recognized for contributions in field of mathematics: elected fellow 

By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
News Writer 
In recognition of his mathe­matical research and contribu­tions to the enhancement of Notre Dame's education for nearly 30 years, University of Notre Dame provost, Timothy 0' Meara, has been elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
Upon his induction Into the Academy In October, O'Meara will join the select company of 3,400 leading figures from academia, government, busi­ness, and the creative arts in­cluding 152 Nobel laureates and 50 Pulitzer Prize winners. 
"Nominations for the Academy come from local members," said O'Meara. "The nominations are then compiled from all over the country and the final selections are an-Lyphout, associate vice presi­dent for business affairs. Lyphout, in turn, contacted the Office of Student Affairs in search of extra funding. How­ever, according to James, Stu­dent Affairs said that it would not make up the difference. 
James believes that this is be­cause the office does riot want to encourage people going to the "Five Corners" area of South Bend, where Bridget McGuire's Filling Station and the Commons are located, for fear of off-campus crime. 
According to James, to take the "Five Corners" area off Weekend Wheels' route would make the service "ineffective," since "more than 50 percent" of its passengers are picked up at that stop. 
Flanner Hall co-president Rich Delevan commented, "If the administration wants to keep people out of the Five Corners area by killing off this program, then taking money away from hall allocations in order to keep It going is worth it." 
The buses ran every Friday and Saturday between 12 and 3 
a.m. between the Main Circle, Club 23, Bridget's, Commons and Campus View. The pro­gram also ran in only one di­rection-from the bars to the campus. "People couldn't use It to go from campus to the bars," 
see WHEELS/ page 4 
';: 
The Otleerlwl Jllke Peters


Club spirit 
Members of the Notre Dame management club participate in a vol­leyball match yesterday by Stepan Center. The campus was alive with athletes yesterday, enjoying one of the final warm fall days. 

nmothy O'Meara 
nounced in May," he added. 
A native of South Africa edu­cated at the University of Cape Town, O'Meara received his Ph.D from Princeton University in 1953 and 1957-1962 served on the Princeton faculty and the Institute for Advanced Study. 
O'Meara joined Notre Dame's department of mathematics in 1962 and has written three books on mathematics at the graduate research level. He and fellow NO professor of mathematics Alex Hahn re­cently published a new book which is considered the refer­ence standard of its fleld. 
As chairman of a special Uni­versity committee on Priorities and Commitments for Excel­lence (PACE), O'Meara led a two-year evaluation of Notre Dame's educational mission that designed a plan of aca­demic strides that the Univer­sity has taken in the past eight years. 
O'Meara, who holds the Howard J. Kenna, chair in mathematics is entering his twentieth year as the Univer­sity's provost. 
see O'MEARA! page4 

Profs claim Thomas n·ot qualified 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Four black Jaw professors argued Tuesday that Clarence Thomas' conservative views disqualified him for the Supreme Court but other witnesses defended him, including his eighth-grade teacher, who said Thomas had "not forgotten his roots." 
Thomas' character and back­ground were highlighted at the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings by friends and sup­porters, notably a Roman Catholic nun who was his eighth-grade teacher in Savan­nah, Ga. 
Sister Mary Virgilius Reidy said, "lie lived day by day. the cruel story of discrimination. He knows the results of being on the wrong side of the law not because of what one has done, or not done, but because of the color of one's skin." 
The panel is expected to vote within two weeks on Thomas' nomination to be the nation's second black Supreme Court justice. Both sides say that Thomas Is heading toward Se­nate confirmation to succeed the flrst black, Thurgood Mar­shall. 
The panel could vote as early as Sept. 26. The four professors, from 
Harvard, Yale, Stanford and Georgetown, said that despite Thomas' rise from poverty, the views he espoused as a "foot soldier" in the Heagan adminis­tration raise questions about what kind of justice he would make. 
"This has been a very difficult situation for African-Ameri­cans, said Yale professor Drew Days of Yale, who headed the Justice Department's civil rights division in the Carter administration.. 
"It would give me great pride to see another African-Ameri­can on the Supreme Court," but, Days said, "I want to see something below the skin, be­neath the skin, that convinces me that person will be a voice and a vote for the people who are voiceless and voteless on the Supreme Court." 
The argument that Thomas' rise from poverty would make him more sensitive to human rights "is just simply too ro­mantic," said Christopher Edley of Harvard. ''I'd like to believe in the power of redemption but I'd like to see some evidence." 
"Background and character are not a substitute for a con­stitutional vision," Edley said. During Thomas' five days of testimony, "I saw no indication he has a framework of ap­proaching constitutional issues. I saw artful ways of evading the questions." 
Charles Lawrence of Stanford said Thomas was nominated because "he has demonstrated his loyalty as an administration foot soldier. He has been an eager spokesperson for the agenda of the radical right." 
~·In always striving to please those who have been his bene­factors, has he lost himself?" Lawrence said. 
"Thomas has been able to dream and to reach for his dreams; yet he has ignored the need for or worked to deny that choit;e to others," said Patricia King of Georgetown. 
John Gibbons, former chief judge of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadel­phia, called Thomas "intellectually gifted, open­minded and not doctrinaire." 
Gibbons and Sister Virgilius both disagreed with suggestions that Thomas was less than candid when he said the views he had expressed as a Reagan administration official would not shape his judicial thinking. 
"I do not in one instant mistrust his honesty, knowing Thomas from a child," the nun told lawmakers. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rumors spread like wild fire at ND/SMC 
First there was slasher, a razor blade­wielding maniac with designs on females at Saint Mary's. 
Then . it was gang initiation week. The story line said that to be 
inducted into one of South Monica Yant 
Bend's finest gangs, local News Editor thugs were required to slash a Notre Dame male ------­and rape a Saint Mary's female. 
Now the talk is of a different nature, of an attempted administrative thwarting of security issues at Saint Mary's. 
Though the stories have changed, one thing remains the same: they are all rumors that are spreading like wildfire across both campuses. 
Rumors are a curious breed. They seem to generate spontaneously, yet once started they infect virtually everyone they touch. They often become so embellished that by the time the story has returned to its origin, even the storyteller does not recognize the tale. 
Such was the case with the recent wave of rumors about gang initiation week in South Bend that sounds like a fraternity rush ex­perience gone awry. Some versions have th~ gang members raping and killing students, while others have them cutting off limbs for physical proof of their conquest. 
The gang rumor even made its way to hall meetings and stall notes, alarming RAs and scaring students. 
This should never have happened, accord­ing to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. A simple phone call to Security or the police would have confirmed that the rumors are false, and saved a lot of people a lot of worrying. 
A second wave of rumors has hit the Saint Mary's campus of late, seemingly related to the two attacks on Saint Mary's students last week. When the College did not receive copies of The Observer last Wednesday, rumors spread that the mishap was really the work of Saint Mary's administrators who stopped delivery because they did not want students to read about the attacks. 
Even with a clarification from Observer editors about the mishap, (which was in fact a circulation error and in no way the product of administrative tampering) the rumors are still flying, much to the dismay of Brett McLaughlin, public information officer of College Communications. 
"It makes me wonder, 'What can people be thinking?'" he said. "Do they really want to believe these things?" 
They must, for McLaughlin said he is still hearing talk of the "Uttle B.o Peep" killer, one of last year's stellar rumors. 
And then there are the rumors about a sup­posed murder of a Saint Mary's student in her room last year. McLauglin said he's received calls from frantic parents who have heard "from reputable sources" about the murder and how they heard the victim was dis­covered when "blood came gushing from under the door." 
For Hurley and McLaughlin, these vicious rumor mills mean trouble-and possibly panic. Their advice? Resist the temptation, and maybe the rumor can be killed before "the slasher" kills those who spread it. 
Today's Staff 

News Meredith McCullough Alicia Reale  Accent Paige Smoron  
Graphics Brendan Regan  Lab Tech David Lee  
Production Kristin Lynch Lisa Bourdon  Viewpoint Rich Riley  

Sports
Renefe,uau______________________ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacanon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducnon rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Kaifu retracts remark about U.S. 

• TOKYO -Prime Minister Toshikl Kaifu today retracted a remark he made last week about the ethics of U.S. politicians. Kaifu said today that he regretted the remark and hoped the U.S. would understand he had not meant to say U.S. politicians were unethical. He said he had meant to say that the U. S. did not have the same limitations on campaign spending as Japan. A political blunder could hurt Kaifu because several senior leaders in the Liberal Democratic Party are vying for his position as his term expires next month. His close associations with President Bush have been considered his political strong point, and any damage to Kaifu's image in Washington could likewise weaken his position in Japan. 
NATIONAL Mjss Amerjca abused by ex-boyfriend 
• HONOLULU-Miss America Carolyn Suzanne Sapp broke off her engagement with a former professional football player because he beat her and once tried to push her from a moving car, news reports said. Sapp, a 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Congressmen Tim Roemer, 3rd District, D and Dave McCurdy, D-Oklahoma, will be at the Center for Social Concerns today at 3:00 p.m. Those applying for the Washington Seminar are especially encouraged to attend, as are all interested others. 

• 
Wednesday lunch fasters remember to sign up this week at either dining hall during lunch or dinner. There will be a lecture at 8 p.m. tonight at the C.S.C. Jim Mundell will address the progress being made in South America and Africa with the help of NO student dona­tions. All are welcome. 

• 
A career development workshop for sophomores will be held by Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development tonight in Holy Cross Lounge from 6:30-7:30 p.m. 


MARKET UPDATE 


junior at the University of Hawaii, was crowned Miss America Saturday. She said she requested a restraining order against Nuu Faaola last October, but withdrew the request. She refused to discuss her allegations. "That incident, what happened over a year ago, was personal then and it remains personal now," she said in a telephone interview from New York. Faaola graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1985 and played five seasons in the N.F.L. 
Administration objects to recycling __ 
IIWASHlNGTON-The Bush administration will oppose a Senate bill intended to boost recycling and tighten waste disposal regulations nationwide, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Tuesday. EPA Administrator William Reilly told the Senate Environmental Protection Subcommittee that many provisions of the proposed legislation are unworkable or too costly. Reilly said one provision of the bill, requiring the White House to maintain public files on its review of proposed EPA regulations, would be likely to draw a veto from Bush. In recent years, White House officials have weakened many proposed environmental regulations, spurring criticism from environmentalists. 
• 
Anyone Interested in joining the world peace action group (formerly Gulf Crisis Action Group) and getting involved in working for peace, please come to an in­formational meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the C.S.C. Cof­feehouse. 

• 
Jazz and ballet classes will be held in the Rockne Memorial gym, room 301, this week. Jazz will be from 


7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. today, and from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. Friday. Ballet will be from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Sunday. Contact Kathy at 283-3429 for more information. 
• Catholic worker house will sponsor a hospitality luncheon tomorrow from 11:30-1:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Mexican food will be served and all are welcome to attend. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1851: the first issue of The New York Times was published. 

• 
In 1947: the United States Air Force was established as a separate branch of the military. 

• 
In 1976: close to 1 million Chinese gathered in the center of Beijing to mourn their late leader, Mao Tse-tung. 

• 
In 1979: The UN General Assembly convened for the start of its 34th session, electing its first black president in ten years (Salim Ahmed Salim of Tanzania). 

• 
In 1987: President Reagan announced that he and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev would meet later in the year to sign a treaty banning medium-and shorter-range nuclear missiles. 


Wednesday, September 18,1991 The Observer 
page 3 

Power shifts in Middle East says Gaffney 

By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 
News Wnter 
The balance of power has now shifted in the Middle East and the new king is the United States, according to Father Patrick Gaffney. 
In a lecture on the Arab World in the aftermath of the Kuwait crisis, Gaffney said that Israel is now second in power, followed by Turkey, which un­expectedly emerged and has geopolitical links to the West and East. 
Gaffney has travelled exten­sively and done research in the Middle East. This summer he spent six weeks in the Arab World studying the effects of the Gulf War. 
Gaffney, an Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies fac­ulty fellow and associate pro­fessor in the department of an­thropology, said there were dif­ferent types of conflicts in the Arab World, Including clashes in Palestine, Lebanon and terri­tory around the Red Sea. 
Egypt may be the largest country, but "they are not the king of the hlll," he said, be­cause Saudi Arabian and Le­banese power blocks stopped former Egyptian President Nasser from rising to power years ago. 
Inspired by the Nasservist Revolution, Gaffney said Iraq also wanted to dominate the Arab World. 
Gaffney discussed several attempts at peace in the Middle East that have failed in recent years. 
In 1989, at the end of the Iraq-Iran War, an Arab Coop­eration Council was held to unify the Arab world. In addi­spect of many regional people. Gaffney added that the United States made an error in not ousting him before the war's end, but that Saddam could lose power any time. 

Gaffney showed several slides of some pictures he and a friend took while in the Middle East. Gaffney emphasized that there was not total destruction in Kuwait and that one had to 
•Jook for it" sometimes. 
Gaffney also showed pictures or the black clouds of smoke and roaring flames that are ecologically damaging to Kuwait and to the rest of the world. There were approxi­mately 700 oil wells torched by the Iraqis and only about half have been capped, he said. 
He said that "little structural damage was done in Kuwait." There was, however, great looting and pillage, so buildings were in need of restocking. 
To illustrate the dangers of disguised hand grenades and bombs planted by Iraqis to kill their enemies during the war, Gaffney presented a picture of a poster in a Kuwaiti airport warning visitors: "Attention brothers of our nation: don't become another victim of Sad­dam." The Observer/Jake Peters Another slide displayed the 
Father Patrick Gaffney gives a lecture yesterday on the Arab World in simplicity of Iraqi equipment, 
the aftermath of the Persian GuH crisis. Gaffney studied the effects of showing an attack plan that 
the GuH War when he travelled in the Middle East this summer. had been laid on a simple tile 
floor with sand and Lego toys. Gaffney showed several ex­tion, the Israeli/Palestinian Although United States inter­amples of torture tools, includ­Peace Process was already vention in the crisis had some ing iron bed frames hooked todead when Iraq invaded Kuwait impact on Kuwait, Gaffney said electrical sources, and carpen­
in August, 1990. that It "remains an autocracy ters' clamps. He said that some
Boundary disputes are now a with relatively little hope of of the torture weapons are stillmajor concern of countries in democratization, politically or used on Palestinians.
the region that were involved in democratically." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Gulf War. Gaffney said the Gaffney said that Saddam the Institute for International"the war has virtually rein­Hussein is still in power in Iraq Peace Studies. 
forced all status quo entities." due to the support and the re-
NVA's new expanded program to be renamed 
Special to The Observer 
The former Non-varsity Ath­letics (NVA} program at the University of Notre Dame now will be known as RecSports, or Office of Recreational Sports, according to assistant athletic director Tom Kelly. 
Once limited to intramural and club sports, the program now offers a wide variety of sporting and fitness activities for Notre Dame students, fac­uJty and staff. 
"Our new name Is reflective of a more broad-based program !hat has been built up over the last few years, with particular emphasis on recreational activities," said Kelly, who directs the RecSports programs. u About 80 percent of our student body is involvelj in some sort of formal recreational program, and that number goes to 90 percent if you include those who work out on their own." 
RecSports offers 10 competi­tive club teams and more than 40 recreational services such as courses, clinics and fitness programs. About 50 percent of the student body participates in Intram urals. 
NVA was established in 1976 and placed under the jurisdic­tion or the athletic department. Before that time, the depart­ment was known as lntrahall and offered just intramural and club sports. 



Hall Presidents Council discuss issues 
You've come a long 

including rape, fasting and homecoming 

way, SARA! 
By STEVEN KRAUSS News Writer 
Sheila Buckman, from the Campus Alliance for Rape
HAPPY 21st 
Elimination (C.A.R.E.) spoke to 
BIRTHDAY 
the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) Tuesday night about her organization's upcoming pre­sentations on rape prevention. 
All our love, Buckman said the presenta­tions are slated to take place in Mom, Dad, two weeks, provided they are permitted. According to Buck­
Jre &John 
man, "Some rectors wouldn't ~!!~!:!~~!:!B!~~!!~!!~!!~!:!~!:!~!:!!!:!~~~ let us come in and make a pre­
.,. __ _!entation last year." 
She was at the meeting seek­ing the presidents' support in making the presentations a se­rious venture; uwe want you to be on our side," she said, "rape is as prevalent here as on any other campus." 
Also at the meeting was Kathy Turner, a representative from the Wednesday Lunch Fast program. She reminded the council that sign-ups for the program will start this week, and that the fast will begin Wednesday, Sept. 25. 
Finally, S~sanne Frossard was on hand to discuss the first Homecoming celebration event, scheduled for Thursday, Oct. 
31. There will be a first ever on campus costume party/contest at Stepan Center, complete with door prizes, decorations, and candy. 
Frossard said this is meant to be a "pre-going out event," and said that excitement has been building for weeks. This is the first stage in Notre Dame's Homecoming celebration, which will culminate Nov. 2 when ND plays Navy. 


~~~ 
• 1~0ib•01'~~ 
• 
INDIVIDUAL EXERCISE PROGRAMS BUILD /REDUCE 

• 
ICARIAN EXERCISE EQUIPMENT 

• 
AEROBICS· 35 CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP AEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCUIT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR (ADDITIONAL) 


©~~®~8~~ 
M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM SAT 8:00 AM -6:00 PM SUN 12:00 PM-4:00PM 
POWERHOUSE GYM • 130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 
Wednesday, September 18, 1991
page4 The Observer 
Earthquake hits central California 
SAN SIMEON, Calif. (AP) -An earthquake shook the central California coast on Tuesday, startling visitors at the famed Hearst Castle and others in the sparsely populated area with a sharp jolt. 
There were no reports of damage or injuries in the tem­blor, which registered 5.1 on the Richter scale, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. 
The quake struck at 2:10 

p.m. and was felt over a wide area, said USGS spokeswoman Pat Jorgenson. 
The quake was centered in a remote area 14 miles northwest of San Simeon, home to Hearst Castle, the seaside mansion built by newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst and now a state park. It is about 170 miles south of San Francisco. 
"It rolled in and then there was a jolt and then it rolled away, three seconds, four sec­onds. Short and sharp. No damage. It was a little too quick for people to react," said Bill Payne, a state park ranger at Hearst Castle. 
The quake was felt hundreds of miles away, as far south as San Luis Obispo and as far north as the outskirts of San Francisco. 

O'Meara 
continued from page 1 
twentieth year as the Univer­sity's provost. 
The provost is second in command to the president of the University and is responsi­ble for all the academics. The provost's main responsibility is the hiring and promotion of Notre Dame's faculty. 
O'Meara makes the seventh Notre Dame faculty member to be inducted into the American 

Battle reaches Zagreb regardless of cease-fire 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­Shell bursts and the rattle of anti-aircraft fire rocked Zagreb late Tuesday in the first major fighting in the Croatian capital, an outbreak that seemed likely to doom a cease-fire agreement signed hours before. 
Federal Air Force jets swooped out of the clear night sky to blizz the city center and were greeted by dense orange flashes of flak. Officials said an air raid warning was in effect for the entire battle-scarred republic of Croatia. An all-clear was given .early Wednesday. 
Zagreb civil defense officials said five people were wounded in the fighting and that two schools, a textile factory, a pri­vate home and an apartment block were damaged. 
Air attacks damaged Zagreb's radio and TV transmission tower, north of the city, and damaged the airport and police station in the southern suburb of Lucko, civil defense authorities said. 
Jets also attacked the town of Gospic, south of Zagreb near the Adriatic coast, Croatian of­ficials said, and news reports said other towns were also un­der attack. 
It was by far the worst vio­lence to hit Zagreb in the 2 1/2 months of fighting that has left more than 450 dead in Croatia, including 34 killed Tuesday. 
fellows from educational and science administration include former Smith College president Jill Ker Conway; National The violence left in doubt the fate of a European Community­brokered cease-fire, signed earlier in the day in a coastal city in the republic of Montene­gro. 
Zagreb, with 1.2 million in­habitants, is Yugoslavia's sec­ond-biggest city, the largest being Belgrade, the federal and Serbian capital. 
Whether the latest fighting was intended to sabotage the cease-fire-or as a last bloody blow by one of the parties in­volved-could not immediately be determined, as it was impos­sible to determine who started the firing. 
Within an hour of the agree­ment, gunfire broke out be­tween Croatian forces and fed­eral troops at the Dusan Corkovic barracks on Zagreb's east side. As dusk fell, tracers fired from the barracks could be seen over the housing blocks of the Lascina and Boronogaj districts. 
Later in the night, Air Force jets flew over the city and in­tense shelling lasted for about 30 minutes, interspersed with heavy machine-gun and sniper fire audible in the city center from all directions. 
Zagreb was nearly completely darkened as a precaution against a\r raids. Public trans­portation was halted, and city officials told residents to go to shelter and remain calm. 
Science Foundation director Walter Massey; and Harvard University president-elect Neil 
SECONDARY 
Rudenstine. 
Emerging issues that the Academy hopes to convert into 

EDUCATION 
projects, said O'Meara, involve the current changes in the in­ternational system; the contro­versy over nuclear weapons; and an analysis of the AIDS· virus and its effects. 


-
Academy of Arts and Sciences. Other members include Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus and professor emeri­tus of theology; Father Ernan McMullin, O'Hara professor of philosophy; Father Richard McCormick, O'Brien professor of Christian ethics; George Craig, Clark professor of bio­logical sciences; Alvin Plantiga, O'Brien professor of philosophy; and Alasdair Macintyre, McMahon/Hank professor of philosophy. 
In addition to O'Meara, this year's newlv-elected Academy 

MANDATORY
Wheels 
SENIORS 
FOR ALL CURRENT & NEW
continued from page 1 
James said. 
STUDENTS OF THE
According to James, between 100 and 150 students used the 
~ The Pre-Law Society's 
program every night, which 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Personal Statement Seminar Mkept 150 potential drunk 
drivers ofT the road." 
~ 
James said that he is "very 

will be on Thursday, Sept. 19, 
concerned." With the new alco­
~ 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER Z3 
hol policy going into effect on 
at 7 pm in the library Auditorium. campus, he believes that e~en more people will be going off­
6:30 • S:oo pm
Professor Srens will be there 
campus during the weekends. "My worry is that (a student) 
~ to provide insights into writing Moreau Little Theatre
this year will be killed, or stabbed or assaulted or, even ~ 
St. Mary'san effective personal statement. 
worse, that someone will be.,._! killed by a student drunk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ driver." 

--------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 18,1991 The Observer 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Outdoor lecture 
Many faculty and students found yesterday's sunny skies irrestible and enjoyed class outdoors. Be­neath the shade of a tree these upperclass students are engrossed in academia. 
Freight trains collide killing one 
KNOX, Ind. (AP) -Two freight trains collided head-on and caught lire Tuesday, killing a locomotive engineer and criti­cally injuring a crewman, au­thorities said. Fumes from burning sulfur forced about 100 evacuations. 
It took firelighters more than six hours to lind the engineer's body. A survivor was found trapped under wreckage nearly four hours after the crash. 
"It's amazing how he was able to survive as long as he did," said State Police Sgt. Jerry Parker..."He was surrounded by flames. 
The crewman was in fair condition at Parkview Hospital in Fort Wayne. 
Four other railroad employ­ees suffered minor injuries, and five firefighters were treated for smoke inhalation and heat exhaustion. 
The Norfolk Southern trains collided in a rural area about 40 miles southwest of South Bend when the eastbound train failed to change tracks, said Kelly Stemnock of the State Emergency Management Agency. 
"Somewhere along the line, there must have beeljl a switch­ing problem someplace because these trains both ended up on the same track going in oppo­site directions," Parker said. 
The circumstances of the crash were under investigation. Four engines and five cars derailed, said Bob Auman, a spokesman at Norfolk Southern in Roanoke, Va. 
Fire erupted in the eastbound train's three engines and one of its 95 tank cars carrying sulfur, as well as in the westbound train's engine and one of its seven cars, Auman said. 
page 5 

UN General Assembly welcomes its members 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The General Assembly, its influence enhanced by tumultuous change from Moscow to the Middle East, convened its 46th session on Tuesday. It picked Saudi Arabia's Palestinian-born envoy as its president and welcomed seven nations earlier barred by Cold War politics. 
The assembly accepted the three newly independent Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as well as North and South Korea, the Marshall Is­lands and Micronesia. With their membership, the world body's size increased to 166 members. 
The Baltics, active members of the League of Nations, were seated with applause to signify their rejoining the family of nations after 51 years of domi­nation by the Soviet Union. All seven new members were seated by acclamation. 
Resolutions of the General Assembly, a kind of interna­tional parliament, are not le­gally binding, like those of the Security Council. 
But its decisions carry weight as expressions of world opinion. Also, the United Nations' new clout in the wake of its key role in the Persian Gulf War provides new opportunities for international cooperation and the settling of disputes. 
Soon after convening; the assembly elected the Saudi U.N. envoy, Samir Shihabi, 66, as its president. The post is largely ceremonial, but the president has the power to arrange the agenda and schedule or post­pone debates, sometimes defus­ing acrimonious issues. 
Addressing the assembly, Shihabi raised one of those is­sues, referring to "the tragedy of Palestine." 
"The United Nations is committed to full realization of Palestinian rights in accordance with U.N. resolutions, the U.N. Charter and desire of the international community," said Shihabi, who was born in 
Jerusalem into a  Palestinian  
family.  
But he touched  on  broader  

themes as well, Including the collapse of Soviet Communism and the new era in East-West ties. 
Wearing a black gold-bor­dered Arab robe and a white Arab headdress, Shiabi said sweeping political changes around the world had increased the effectiveness of the United Nations in mediating disputes. 
"We are witnessing a great relaxation in international rela­tions between the United States and the Soviet Union and the positive transformation in most states' attitudes, substituting a policy of cooperation In place of confrontation," Shihabi told the assembly. He spoke in Arabic. 
Shihabi, Saudi Arabia's U.N. envoy for eight years, won 83 votes to 4 7 for Papua New Guinea's foreign minister, Michael Somare, and 20 for Ambassador Abdalla Saleh al­Ashtal of Yemen. 
Of the seven new members, Shihabi said they would "enrich the United Nations and increase the universality of this organization." 

1842-1992 
Unrversrty of Notre Dome 

The College of Business Administration 
In Celebration of The University's Sesquientennial and the 70th Anniversary of the College 
CoLLECiE oF Bt rsJNESs A1 >~IINJSTHATJON 
UNIVERSITY oF NoTRE DAME
Invites You to Attend 
A Convocation of Our Graduates 
Seventy Years of Business Education at Notre Dame 1921 -1991 
Thursday, September 19, 1991, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame 
1:30 p.m.-3:45p.m.: Convocation ofGradua{es 
Moderator: Dr. John R. Malone Professor Emeritus of Marketing Mr. Edmond R. Haggar Mr. James L. Hesburgh Honorary Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Haggar Apparel Company J.L. Hesburgh International, Inc. 
Dr. Joseph A. Pichler Mr. William Lehr, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Secretary, The Kroger Company Hershey Foods Corporation. 
Mr. James M. Corgel Director of Process Industries, IBM Corporation 
4:00p.m.-5:00p.m.: 
"The 90's: Main Street Emerges-Wall Street Recedes" 
Moderator: 
I
Mr. Philip .J. Purcell, III 

Dr. Frank Reilly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard J. Hank Professor of Business 
Dean Wiuer Financial Services Group Inc. Administration 
A Business Advisory Council Colloquium on "The Challenge of Education" 
Friday, September 20, 1991, Center for Continuing Education, Main Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
8:30a.m. -9:40a.m.: The Role ofBusiness Schools Dean Tom Keller, Duke University, Fuqua School ofBusiness Dean Jack Keane, University ofNotre Dame, College of 
Business Administration 
10:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m.: The Role ofthe Private Sector A panel ofprominent business leaders, presidents, and Chief Executive Officers. 
I :30 p.m. -2:45p.m.: The Role ofthe Public Sector Senator Bill Bradley (D., NJ) "America's Challenge in the Post-Communist World." 
r---------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1~91 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 12 

1:32 a.m. Two Notre Dame students reported the vandalism of a window in the LaFortune Student Center. 
1:53 a.m. Two Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police officers responded to a report of a suspicious person at the Hesburgh Library. The officers latter found. the man at St. Edward's Hall and escorted him off University propef1¥. 
9:00 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer discovered the vandalism of a vehicle parked in Green Field. 
3:38 p.m. A University faculty member reported he lost his parking decal. 
3:55 p.m. A Notre Dame Seeurity/Police officer transported an injured University employee from Fitzpatrick Hall to the University Health Center. 4:15p.m. A visitor to the University reported vandalism to his vehicle which was parked in the C-1 parking lot. In addition, the visitor reported the theft of several items from his car. 
4:25 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his parking decal from his unlocked vehicle at his off-campus residence.. 
5:00 p.m. A University employee reported damage to her RV parked in the B-1 parking lot. 
5:42 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated an Injured Breen-Phiilips resident at the Stepan Fields and assisted in the transport of the student to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
7:22 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer found an unsecured bike at the Rockne Memorial Building and brought it to the Security Building until the owner can be identified. 
8:10 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer transported an injured Dillon Hall resident from the JACC to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 10:22 p.m. A P.E. resident reported the theft of her unattended ring from the Lafortune Student Center. 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 13 

1:53 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer transported an injured student from the Alumni/Senior Club to St. Joseph's Hospital. 
11:00 
a.m. A university employee reported damage to her vehicle parked in the Morris Inn parking lot. 

11:00 
a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her unlocked bicycle from O'Shaughnessy Hall. The bicycle was later returned to the bike rack from which it.had been taken. 


1:06 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported vandalism to her car which was parked in the D-6 student parking lot. 3:15p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of cash from his unlocked room. 
3:34 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of cash from his unlocked room 
3:50 
p.m. A graduate student reported the theft of her parking decal. 

3:50 
p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of cash from his unlocked room on Tuesday September 3, 1991. 


4:45 p.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of a bag from her unlocked vehicle which was parked in the D-2 student parking lot. 
4:51 p.m. A University employee reported damage to her vehicle whictJ was parked in the B-1 parking lot. 
4:59 p.m. An off-campus student reported vandalism to his car which was parked in the B·17 parking lot. 
5:11 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her parking decal. 
6:40 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer responded to a report of two men who were solici!lng fragrances In Grace Hall. After Informing the suspects of University policy, the officer escorted them off campus. 
7:41 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department responded to a report of an Injured Carroll Hall resident at South Dining Hall. After treating the student at the Dining Hall, he was transported to St. Joseph's Medical 
Center. · 
8:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer responded to the report of a burglary attempt at Hurley Hall of Business. 
10:38 p.m. A Lyons resident reported a suspicious person was harassing her at the Hesburgh Library Circle. 
SATURDAY, SEPT.14 

3:05 
a.m. A resident of Edwardsburg, Michigan was cited by Notre Dame Security/Police for driving 53 MPH in a 30 MPH zone. 

3:05 
a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee officer discovered the larceny of various items from a car parked in the 0-2 student parking lot. 


3:15 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer responded to the report ol a suspicious person drilling a goff cart near Howard Hall. Upon further investigation, the officer discovered the cart parked at Washington Hall. The cart was then driven back to the Security Building Garage where it will remain until the owner of the vehicle can be iden!lfied. 
12:44 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee officer transported an Injured St. Ed's resident from the Student Heath Center to St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 3:00p.m. A University employee reported he lost his checkbook. It was later found at the JACC and returned to the viCtim. 
Cocaine babies increase hospital costs 
CHICAGO (AP)-Cocaine ba­hies are running up excess hos­pital costs of more than $500 million a year, a benchmark for how much money could be saved by helping expectant mothers get ofT or stay ofT co­caine, researchers say. 
Babies exposed to the drug while in the womb required hospitalizations that averaged four days longer and $2,610 more than non-cocaine babies in a study of hundreds of New York newborns, the re­
searchers said. The cocaine-exposed infants were 50 percent more likely
than unexposed babies to re­quire intensive care and more than twice as likely to have a very low birth weight, the re­searchers said. The team was led by Ciai:'an Phibbs, a health economist who directed the re­search while at Columbia Uni­versity School of Public Health in New York and at the Univer­
sity of California, San Fran­cisco. 
A recent·study indicates that cocaine-exposed babies require more care at birth than unexposed infants, resulting in longer hospital stays and larger hospital bills. Here is the average amount of additional hospital costs and additional length of stay for cocaine babies in three scenarios: 
FETAL EXPOSURE 
Any cocaine: Additional costs+ $2,610 Additional stay + 4.0 days 
Multiple drug: Additional costs+ $8,450 
Additional stay + 1 0·0 days Cocaine only: Additional costs+ $1,283 Additional stay+ 2.7 days 
Crack: 
Additional costs+ $6,735 
Additional stay+ 7.5 days 
Other forms of cocaine: 
Additional costs+ $1,226 
Additional stay + 2.9 days 
Association for Perinatal Addiction Research and Educa­tion. 
Research done by Chasnoff indicates women who stop tak­ing drugs before their second trimester of pregnancy are at-most as likely to have healthy
babies as women who don't use drugs. 
"Three days in the neonatal intensive care unit is going to make up for that (cost) right there," ChasnofT said. "I don't think there is any question that 
if you can provide these ser­vices early on, you're going to \save enormous amounts of 
money later." Yet only about 10,000 drug abuse-treatment slots exist for the estimated 250,000 pregnant women who could benefit from them, said Chaspoff, citing a study two 
years ago by the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors. 
Contrary to popular belief, only a small fraction of babies 
The study, published in 1------=----.:...._---l.LL.__......L..J.._ _ _L __ ....:W__...:LL.---__.exposed to cocaine in the womb Wednesday's Journal of the Note:Subjectsforthesrudy,conductedatHarlemHospitalinNewYorkCityfromSept.1, develop medical problems later, American Medical Association, 1985, to Aug. 31, 1986, were 355 newborns who had been exposed to cocaine In the womb but the ones who do have clev­is the "frrst and best attempt at and 199 randomly selected Infants who had not astating conditions with astra­nailing down the costs" of ex-Source: Journal of the American Medical Association AP/Heather Eatmar nomical costs, Phibbs said. 
cess hospitalization for cocaine  And it is impossible to tell  
babies, said Dr. Ira ChasnofT, a  which mothers will deliver  
researcher independent of the  cal School.  breathing difficulties, bleeding  problem babies,  so they all  
work.  Cocaine  exposure  in  the  in the brain, heart trouble; liver  have  to  receive  special  
No  one  knows how much  womb  can cause premature  problems,  blindness  and  treatment, said Phibbs, now at  
later care costs for cocaine ba­ birth, very low birth weight, re- sudden death.  the Palo Alto (Calif.) Veterans  
hies, who may require therapy  tarded physical growth and  With outpatient drug treat- Administration Medical Center.  
to walk, to eat, to use  their  learning disabilities, Chasnoff  ment, 40 percent of cocaine-us- The actual proportion of co­ 
hands and to speak, said Chas- said.  ing expectant mothers can get  caine babies in the study who  
nofT, associate professor of pe- Very low birth weight-less  off the drug, at a cost of $5,000  required intensive care was  
diatrics  and  psychiatry  at  than 3.28 pounds -makes  to $7,000 each, said Chasnoff,  24.6 percent.  
Northwestern University Medi­ newborns much more prone to  president  of  the  National  

Gates admits to misjudging Soviets while CIA analyst 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Robert Gates, under intense Senate questioning of his qualifications to head the CIA, conceded Tuesday that as an agency ana­lyst he had focused on the So­viet Union's threat to the out­side world and not the "unthinkable" changes perco­
lating among its people. 
On the second day of his con­firmation hearings before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Gates also came in for renewed grilling from Democrats critical of his actions at the time of the 1985-86 diversion of money from Iran arms sales to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
However, many of the panel's 15 members appeared to have been disarmed by Gates' 
orrection 

A photo caption in yester­day's Observer incorrectly identified members of the Notre Dame Aikido Club as members of the Tae Kwon Do Club. The Observer regrets the error. 
Couples Golf Outing 
Sunday, September 22 2:30pm 
Notre Dame GolfCourss 9 hole outing and picnic Faculty, staffand their families invited 

admission of fault -both on matters of analysis and in repeatedly saying on Monday and Tuesday that he should have been more vigorous in probing the early indications of the Iran-Contra alTair. 
"What has happened, hap­pened. And you admitted you made mistakes, and I admire that," said Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz. 
Republicans sought to stress Gates' abilities as an analyst ­the metier that propelled him through CIA and White House ranks to be nominated to the top intelligence post at the age of47. 
"There's a very strong record of your acting aggressively" at the CIA, suggested Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo. 
In response, Gates described a record that brought him into 
I ri!li!J'r?. MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
$1.00 off Coupon several confrontations with the administration when he wrote analyses at variance with senior officials' beliefs on such subjects as the Philippines and Lebanon. 

(.E-1 to &-18 Dlnneri Only)  
I L  402 Dixio-y North. It-land, IN (Aa..a &<Oil Boot lao) Ph. 272-7373-= 5om: 12-9. M-Tb 11-9:30 _ _ ·PJ:i;ia• U;l0:30_ _  

On the Soviet Union, Gates conceded, his record was im­perfect. 
For instance, he said he had publicly disagreed with a CIA analysis that the Soviets would undertake unilateral cuts in their defense spending. "I was wrong," he said. 
When asked about a 1986 speech he had made saying the Soviets would test a ground­based anti-missile laser defense system by the end of the 1980s, Gates also conceded error but defended himself by saying he had drawn from various expert opinions. 
He rejected suggestions from Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., that he had tailored his assessment in order to justify U.S. defense spending by sounding a false alarm about a Soviet buildup_ But "I may have erred on the side of focusing on the con­cerns," Gates said. 
When reminded by Bradley that in 1986 he had rejected any suggestions that change was brewing in the Soviet Union, Gates responded: "We have all learned some impor­tant lessons ... in terms of thinking the unthinkable." 
Bradley also suggested that 
U.S. intelligence sharing with Iraq between 1985 and 1988, while Gates served in top intel­ligence posts, violated U.S. law. Gates disagreed and the subject will be addressed again in a closed-door session planned for Friday. 
Arts and Letters Business Society 
Organizational Meeting Wednesday, September 18 124 Hayes-Healy 6:30p.m. 
All Arts and Letters students interested in familiarizing themselves with opportunities in the business world and post-graduate business education (MBA) should plan on attending. 
See you there! 
r 
Wednesday, September 18,1991 The Observer page 7 
Mexico allows torture, says Amnesty International 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Anyone arrested in Mexico runs the risk of being tortured, Amnesty International said Tuesday in a report accusing the government of tolerating police human rights abuses. 
Hit's time for the United States government and the In­ternational community to stop turning a blind eye to the fla­grant human rights abuses committed by the Mexican gov­ernment," John Healey, execu­tive director of the London­based monitoring group said in a statement. 
Amnesty said It has had hun­dreds of reports of torture in the last two years, Including some In which the victims died. 
"This terrible pattern of vlo­lations clearly contradicts the government's repeatedly stressed commitment to human rights," it said. 
The Amnesty report marked the second time in the last few days that a prominent interna­tional human rights organiza­tion accused the Mexican gov­ernment of doing little more than paying lip service to hu­man rights. 
"Human rights violations in Mexico will not stop until the institutions of abuse are dis­mantled," America's Watch said last week in an update to a 1990 report, which singled out federal police as some of the worst abusers. 
Neither the president's office nor the attorney general's office had any immediate comment. 

Last week, Attorney General Ignacio Morales Lechuga defended President Carlos Sali­nas Gortari's administration at a news conference llJtended by Secretary of State James Baker. 
"There is change," he said when asked about the Americas Watch report. "There is re­form." 
The attorney general's office cited an update on several no­torious human rights cases re­leased Monday by Assi.stant At­torney General Federico Ponce Rojas. 
Rojas said the attorney gen­eral was "acting with energy, efficiency and within the mark of the law and the constitution." 
Amnesty International, America's Watch and a host of Mexican human rights groups disagree. 
"Complaints of torture are rarely investigated by the courts and torturers almost never brought to justice," Amnesty said. 
It said people are beaten, subjected to electric shocks and mock executions, immersed in water, nearly asphyxiated with plastic bags and have mineral water mixed with chili powder forced up their noses. Some die, it said. 
"Torture victims in Mexico come from a wide range of backgrounds," it said. "They include people detained for political reasons or in the con­text of land disputes, human rights and indigenous activists, trade unionists, lawyers and criminal suspects." 
Amnesty said even children run the risk of torture after being picked up by police or soldiers. Those who complain run the risk of "harassment, Intimidation and in some cases abduction and torture." 
It cited one case in which a small town mayor was beaten and jailed for seven months for trying to complain about abuses committed by drug agents during a raid. Agullilla Mayor Salomon Mendoza Barajas was finally freed In December. 
In another case, crusading newspaper columnist Victor Manuel Oropeza was murdered in July in Ciudad Juarez, on the Texas-Mexico border. Oro'peza had received death threats for writing articles on rights abuses. 

It's not justanotherwayfor you
to spendyour money. It's awayto help you save it. 
Now, get the Card and get Stu?ent Privileg~s. Special savmgs createdJUSt for you. Only from American Express. 
If you think the American Express® Card is simply another way to buy things, we'd like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you save. 
Become a Student Cardmember today, and you'll automatically get American Express® Student Priuileges,~ our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the 
money you spend. 
....-­

Continental g 
3ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT A PRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 
Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: Each certificate could save you as much as $250 ot•er regular ContinentalAirlinesfares on a coast·to· coast trip. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES" OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERY MONTH FORA YEAR 
also help you save on your long· For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional could saue more than $44 benefits of Cardmembership-like when you e11rol/ and use the personal attention you can get the American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives. And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in 
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
change your current long· MlCJ distaoce company. 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 
Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the sauings you need on the things you want-a sure way to make the most of 
a college budget. This year alone, Student Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. 
You'll find y~mr certificates in each issue of our exclusive student magazine, American Express® Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today. 
A GOOD INVESTMENT, AGREAT VALUE 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All of which goes to show that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways for you to spend your money, there are few 
TRAVEL that help you save it. RElATED Apply today. SERVICES 
An Amefcan Express company 
'To be eligible, you must be approved by D«ember 31, 1991. "A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 is equal to the charges fora domestic 30·minule night/weekend MC1 Card Compatibility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by D«ember 31. 1991. (0 1991 Am('rican Express Travel Related Servict's Compan~ Inc. 


Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 




AN EVENING OF MIME, MUSIC, AND MAYHEM! 

Tim ·Settimi has become the artist most recognized by the National Association of Campus Activities, including being voted "19 8 8 CAMPUS ENTERTAINER OF THE YEAR". Tim Settimi has performed in concert with the Miami Sound Machine, Kenny Loggins, The Beach Boys, Doc Severinson, Willie Nelson, and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra. 
Wednesday, September 18 at Washington Hall Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED •.• or your money back! 


Wednesday, September 18, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Congress approves bill Shuttle heads home in darkness 
to benefit unemployed 
WASHINGTON (AJ>) -The !louse disregarded a White I louse veto threat Tuesday and overwhelmingly passed Demo­cratic legislation that would give 3 million long-term jobless Americans up to 20 extra weeks of unemployment bene­til.,. 
The lawmakers sent the $6.4 billion measure to the Senate on a vote of 283-125, with the support of nearly one-third of voting House Republicans. Top Democrats predicted they would have enough votes to override a veto by Bush. 
"The administration Is ignor­Ing people with mouths to feed, and they're serving them a bunch of baloney," said House Whip David Bonlor, D-Mich. 
If all 433 House members participate in a vote to try to override, 289 votes would be needed to enact the measure over Bush's objections. A two­thirds Senate majority would then also be needed. 
Voting for the bill were 234 Democrats, 48 Republicans and one independent. Eighteen Democrats and 107 Republi­cans voted against it. 
Democrats embraced the measure as a lifeline for the 300,000 workers who each month use up the standard 26 weeks of unemployment com­pensation and remain jobless. They accused Bush of being in­sensitive to Americans suffering during the recession. 
Administration officials have argued the measure should be rejected because the recession has not been as serious as past downturns and is ending any­way. They have also said the bill would Increase the federal deficit. 
"We have a veto threat on it, yes," said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
Meanwhile, 27 Democratic governors wrote the president urging him to sign the bill into law. 
'These Americans have been looking for work for at least half a year and they need more help," the governors wrote of the nation's long-term unem­p ed. "T need help, be-
HAPPY 20th SEAN! 
,.
:..~.
r
li:; ~ 
~ 

_, I 
Love, Mom, Dad, Patti-Anne, Jerry & Kevin 
:: I 
••ENTERTAINING :: SUSPENSE THRILLER:' 
Jt. If--Vincent Canby, NEW YORK TIMES 
....
....
....
....
...
.... 
.... ........,
...
....
....
....
.... 
....
....
.... 
....... .... 
.... 
cause the economy is not gen­
erating enough jobs." 
Gov. William Donald Schaefer 
of Maryland was the only 
Democratic governor to not 
sign. 
House GOP leaders said they believed the measure would ul­timately be changed and gain the support of Bush and most lawmakers. Whip Newt Gin­grich, R-Ga., said such changes could involve including some of the Republican tax proposals and making the bill's benefits temporary instead of perma­nent. 
But some Republicans who voted for the measure said they would do so again, even if It were not changed and Congress was trying to override a veto. 
"On this issue, I wouldn't give" it a second thought, because I felt so strongly about the equity issue here," said Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J. 
The House approved a similar bill on Aug. 2 by a 375-45 vote. The Senate sent it to Bush on a voice vote the same day. 
House Republicans, knowing Bush could kill that measure on his own, felt free to support it in greater numbers than they did Tuesday. 
Bush signed the measure Aug. 17 but then killed it by refusing to declare an emergency, as budget law requires. Congress therefore had no chance to override a veto. 
Under the new version, Bush's separate emergency declaration would not be needed. Thus, the president would have to veto the bill to stop it, and Congress would have a chance to override. 
In a last-ditch effort to thwart the new bill, Republicans tried to offer an administration­backed "economic growth" package Including a cut In the capital gains tax and tax credits for business. Democrats blocked a vote. 
"They don't want to see any kind of turnaround in this re­cession," Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., said of the Democrats. "They just want to give out these benefits ... {as they) get closer to an election " 


CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP} -Discovery's five astronauts packed away their gear Tues­day for the trip home, a spec­tacular, nighttime plunge over Canada, the Midwest and down into Florida. 
The space shuttle has never descended over so much of the United States in the dark. Dis­covery's glowing trail was ex­pected to be most vivid as the ship sped from the Canadian province of Saskatchewan to­ward Tennessee. 
Discovery was scheduled to land at 2:06 a.m. EDT Wednes­day at Kennedy Space Center. The weather outlook was good, despite the potential for patchy ground fog. 
"Of course, the weathermen keep reminding me. that the weather's kind of like investing: past performance is no guaran­tee on future results," said NASA flight director Jeff Bantle. 
It would be the first tim~ a shuttle has landed at Kennedy in the dark; the eight previous Florida touchdowns were dur­ing the day. Shuttles have landed four times in darkness at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., the alternative touch­down site Wednesday. 
About 20 minutes before landing, the shuttle was to race over parts of North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky and Tennessee. It would look like a slow shooting star with yellow and green streaks trailing it. 
Weather permitting, residents in such cities as Grand Forks, N.D., Minneapolis, Danville, Ill., Evansville, Ind., Bowling Green, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., may have the chance to see the shut­tle overhead. 
The astronauts, who have been working night owl hours, awoke Tuesday afternoon to begin preparations for the trip home. 
An evening liftoff last Thurs­day was required for the pre­cisely timed release of an atmo­spheric observatory, and It put the shuttle on an approach path home in the early hours. 
Shuttle managers restored Kennedy's status as a primary landing site three months ago in an effort to save time and money. 
The 2.8-mlle runway was to be lit by a special bank of high­Intensity lights stationed at each end. City officials In Ti­tusville, across the Indian River, asked residents to turn on their porch lights as a goodwill gesture. 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Red 24, hike! 
~race Hall attempts to score yesterday's scrimmage against Keenan Hall. Dorms across campus are 1n preparation for the beginning of the interhall football season this Sunday. 
School may ban religious song 
ALEXANDRIA, Ind. (AP) ­The Alexandria Community S~hool Board Is expected to de­ctde next month whether stu­de~~s can ~lng "Jesus Loves Me dunng school, a spokesman said Tuesday. 
The board discussed in an ex­
ecutive session earlier this 
week a complaint filed by a 
mother whose young child had 
sung the religious song during a 
kindergarten music class at 
Orestes Elementary School. 
For more than two hours 
Monday night, parents were al­
lowed to voice their opinion on 
whether the religious tune is 
appropriate for the classroom. 
-Kathie Wilbur, who filed the complaint, said the issue has "been blown all out of propor­tion." 
Wilbur said she had asked Orestes Principal Michael Shaver how the schools "got 
SMC 
TONIGHT 

SPONSORED BY SAB 
away with" singing religious songs in school. 
When Shaver didn't have an answer, Wilbur said she anonymously called the I~diana Civil Liberties Union. She later told Shaver the ICLU advised against singing the song in pub­lic schools. 
Two days later, the song was banned on the advice of school attorney Jeffrey Lockwood and the Indiana School Board Asso­ciation. 
Superintendent Jack Bowers said recommended to the school board that the song be banned because he was concerned that Mrs. Wilbur might take legal action. 
• "The complainant had con­tacted the ICLU, and that was an indication, I would think, that there was pretty serious concern," Bowers said Tuesday. 
Wilbur said she never in­tended to take legal action. 
"l think it's been blown all out of proportion," she said. "My husband's been called anti­Christ and I've been called an atheist. This is not true." 
Bowers said parents attend­ing the meeting Monday night were allowed to offer their opinions on the issue, but It was not on the board's agenda. He said he believed the board probably would take some ac­tion at its next meeting, Oct. 7. It could either ban the song or not take any action. 
Some parents were incensed that the song might be banned for good. 
"There are a lot of born-again Christians who are taxpayers," said Richard Hardest. "We object to Halloween being observed in the schools because it's contrary to scriptural teaching. I wonder if the ICLU would take m case." 

SAINT MARY'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT OPEN FORUM 
FIND OUT WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH CAMPUS ISSUES AND GIVE US YOUR IMPUT!!! ?p.m. Haggar Perl or 

Page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Edhor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Edhor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Edhor ...............David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Edhor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edhor............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College_ It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
I do not understand the atti­tude that Molly O'Neill, presi­dent of Lewis Hall, takes to­ward Michael Yore's memoran­dum seeking support from hall presidents for the homosexuals at Notre Dame (The Observer, Sept. 11). On the one hand, Lewis claims she "did not feel that Lewis's Hall Council was 
' obligated to address the memo," since Yore sent it in a private capacity "as one student to another." On the other, she evidently has no reservations about attacking both the memo and its writer in as public a forum as The Observer. First, O'Neill blatantly ac­cuses Yore of using the Hall President's Council "as a way to get around Student Affairs." On the contrary, Yore and others have tried for years to get Stu­dent Affairs to acknowledge the need for a lesbian and gay sup­port system at Notre Dame. However, the office has persistently blocked-worse, actively hindered-their efforts. When the administration has proved so willfully unreasonable, Yore is more than justified in turning to hall presidents and seeking their help in providing a supportive atmosphere to lesbians and gay men. To imply that he is being underhanded is to ignore the facts. O'Neill also questions whether the resolution Yore proposes would achieve his ob­jectives. Since she hasn't given 
DOOHESBURV 
Schools are separate institutions 
Dear Editor: ing. I was at a party last week­dents ani disgruntled about. If 
We see the words "Notre end and introduced myself to a a NO or SMC student went to Dame and Saint Mary's" all the woman who told me she was a another school to utilize ser­time. We see them on the front "domer." Less than 30 minutes vices, chances are good that the of The Observer, the cover of later, I was informed by another student would have to pay fees. the telephone directory and the party-goer that this alleged ND Maybe we should just eliminate top of the academic calender. student was in fact a SMC this privilege of the relationship There are, however, a few student. Are SMC students not if the SMC's are going to push places we do not see these proud of where they go to and push for more. words. We will not find them school? Perhaps if they spent Where Notre Dame football on the tuition bill; they are not less time trying so hard to ride tickets are concerned, I point located on final transcripts, and on the coat-tails of ND, and out that the team is the Notre we· won't see them on the more time working on their Dame Fightin' Irish and not the Fightin' Irish's jerseys. own sense of place, spirit and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fact: I am a junior at Notre tradition, they would better the Fightin' Irish. SMC students Dame while a student attending relations. upset about the $25.00 college at Saint Mary's is not. Please understand that Notre additional fee should just be This is not to degrade or belittle Dame is under no obligation at happy to be included in the the student body at SMC, but all to provide complete equality games. If they are really bent rather to point out that the two to SMC students. If they were, out of shape about it, I would schools are not one in the same then why not invite everyone suggest that they find about 30 but independent institutions from Catholic University or women at their school, start a and should conduct themselves Georgetown up to South Bend team, deal with the NCAA, and as such. At this time, the rela­and call them "domers"? leave Notre Dame alone. tionship between the two The word, "co-dependent" is I encourage all students of 
schools is where it should be. not what exists now nor is it both institutions to think about Understanding that the schools what we should strive for. the relationship. After all, the are different should allow for Rather the s!udents of both situation that eventually evolves each to establish their own schools of higher learning into permanence depends on identity. should develop their own us. 
Reading the article in The Ob­uniqueness and when appropri­Karl J. Eichelberger server's Inside Column (Sept. ate, work with one another. Off-Campus 12, 1991) was infuriating. I As for the issue of student Sept. 12, 1991 don't see any reason for Saint fees and football tickets, I can Mary's students to be complain-not understand what SMC stu-
Why no firm stand about abortion? 
Dear Editor: community by taking a pro-life admitting it, the courage or I have often wondered how stand. This would be in incentive they need to them­both Notre Dame and Saint accordance with the teachings selves take a pro-life stand. 
·Mary's, two Catholic institu­of the Catholic Church of which I am not alone in challenging tions, can have gone for so long both Notre Dame and Saint Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to without making a firm stand on Mary's are members. take a stand in the upcoming the subject of abortion. To take such a stand will take months. As prominent Catholic a great deal of courage by the institutions, Notre Dame and administrations of both schools Julie E. Leonard Saint Mary's have a but it would give those people McCandless Hall responsibility to set an example who are pro-life supporters, but Sept. 16, 1991 for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's who are afraid or reticent about 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAV 

FOR THe toN615! TIM&, I KtP7 THIN!<­IN61TMUST 
De MY FAI.Jt-T, 
THAT 50'rftlf(J,{J.., 

it a chance, I don't see how she plans on fmding out. In any case, by her logic, one might argue that since our statures against homicide haven't succeeded in eradicating murder, perhaps we ought to repeal them. 
O'Neill goes on to ask why hall councils should single out a specific minority group, les­bians and gays, and affirm their rights. As an Asian on an overwhelmingly white campus, I applaud O'Neill's consideration for other minority groups. Rather than shoot down Yore's proposal, then, why doesn't she expand or supplement it to cover the others she is so concerned about? 
O'Neill's final objection, that Yore doesn't give "concrete ex­amples" of the fear with which homosexuals live, is simply lu­dicrous. I should have thought that the examples are so pal­pable all around us that it was utterly unnecessary to set them down in print. 
And speaking of setting things down in print, I wonder why The Observer devoted so much space to O'Neill's reasons for not even considering Yore's proposal, and none at all to those of Amy Listerman and the Siegfried Hall Council for adopting it by unanimous con­sent. 
Surajit Bose 
Off-campus 
Sept.11 ' 1991 

UM..,THIS 15 THe 
MAUBU MIUTARY FAMil-Y SUPPORJ 6ROUP. HeY, 
£Vf!I?YCJII0 
THIS IS/3.{}. ( 
I 

'Au I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen.' 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, September 18, 1991 Page 11 
LETTERS 


Rescuers violently interfere with abortion rights 
Dear Editor: ROTC buildings during the abortion." By all means it is not those who participated in the positive that what you believe is This is in response to Charles Vietnam war? The terrorists an easy decision, but one that a Underground Railroad is right? No one can, not you, not 
D. Rice's editorial from that performed the bombings woman has the right to make unclear to me. Correct me if I the physician performing the September 5, 1991 titled, justified their actions in that without abortion rescuers am wrong, but weren't the abortion, and not even the "Abortion rescuers save they were stopping others from violently impeding her entry In slaves already born? That is, woman is one hundred percent innocent humans from being killed. What in fact they an abortion clinic. These so­slaves were not just potential sure. I think it is very execution." The title is did though, was to use violence called "rescues" are a direct human beings, they were actual presumptuous of Prof. Rice to misleading; the abortion to stop what they believed was violation of a woman's civil human beings. A fetus assume that his way is the only rescuers are not saving in­morally wrong. I doubt that rights. (particularly early in its term), way, without proper debate. nocent humans from execution, Prof. Rice would support this Women are always going to is not a human being, it Is a His commentary was a flat out but they are interfering with a use of his own principle. have abortions-legally or not. potential human being. It has, refusal of meaningful discourse, woman's right to choose to have Abortion is not against the But which is better: a clean, from conception, depended on and thus democratic society. an abortion. Rescuers do this law, and the women who healthy and safe environment the woman's consent, except in In closing I would like to say by violently prohibiting access receive them should not be where a woman can have an the cases of rape and Incest, that the right to have ari into an abortion clinic by treated as though they are abortion performed by a li­about which Prof. Rice is abortion is one that is obstruction the entrance. criminals. A woman's body is censed physician, or a germ­tellingly silent. fundamental to a woman, 
Prof. Rice Is calling for the· her own, and It is her choice infested back alley abortion Prof. Rice's argument Is perhaps the fact that Prof. Rice use of violence, which is wholly whether to terminate the fetus. clinic, where the women would completely one-sided. It is as if is a man impedes his ability to Irresponsible. The use of It is a woman's choice, not the be cut apart by an he is saying "this is my way, understand or respect a necessity defense has no basis Lambs of Christ, not Operation inexperienced doctor (if it even and my way is the only way." woman's right to choose. because that stance concerns Rescue, and especially not was a doctor), who charged her Or "if I say it's a human being issues that are already against Congress'. an outrageous fee and it's a human being; and don't Jennifer M. Rasmussen the law, such as the A woman does not come to endangered her life? I believe bother me with the ethical and Lemans Hall strangulation of a young child. the conclusion to have an that the first example is the biological complexities of the Sept.11, 1991 
If Prof. Rice is in favor of abortion easily. I cannot think best for women and men. matter." necessity defense, why did he of one woman who has said Prof. Rice's comparison Prof. Rice, how can you not not defend those who bombed "oh yeah, I'll just have an between abortion rescuers and have doubts? How can you be 
Resolution can help end discrimination and bring positive dialogue 
Dear Editor, plans were for the resolution. that although he agreed with lesbian and gay members of the nation from your dorms. 
I read with interest about He told me that there wasn't the substance of the resolution, community interact openly with Perhaps the Office of Student the memo circulated by Michael really a need for the resolution he was afraid that passing It supportive straight members, Affairs will even allow hall Voro, Co-Chair of Gays and because there really isn't a would be a meaningless gesture we can effect a change. rectors and rectresses to par­Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint problem. He wasn't aware of that would not help the matter Call Michael Vore or myself ticipate in stopping harassment Mary's College. The resolution any discrimination or harass­any. for names of gay and lesbian of their residents. called for dorms to publicly af­ment. I explained that there If there are other hall presi­students who will gladly come RAs, let your section know firm the rights of their gay res­isn't much visible discrimina­dents and councils out there talk to your dorm. Or just ask that you're a safe person to talk idents and oppose discrimina­tion at Notre Dame because the that feel the same as that co­some of the gay people living to about issues regarding tion against any residents based homophobes have done a very president, then read on. If you right there in your dorm. sexuality and homosexuality. on their sexual orientation. effective job of creating an at­think you support gay and les­At your next SYR, make it Your dorm doesn't have to 
I applaud Siegfried for Its mosphere of oppression which bian people, but don't see the known that same-gender cou­pass the "Safe Haven" resolu­swift and decisive action in makes it seem quite difficult for point in passing a "meaningless ples are are welcome and make tion to make the dorm a safe adopting the resolution, and gay people to live openly. resolution," then consider what it clear that harassment and and healthy place for its gay question the dorms which feel There are people who are you can do to help the gay peo­rudeness won't be tolerated. I residents. The resolution is, that the resolution is "not a out to do violence. A student ple in your dorm. went. to several SYRs with male after all, just another state­very productive way of doing last year was told by three men Hold a Hall Forum about gay dates and always had a blast. ment. But it can be a positive anything." The rectress of one that he would get his "faggot issues. Arrange one or two It's a shame that more gay and statement, a foundation for real dorm said she "sensed" that ass kicked" if he ever set foot in nights when students of the lesbian people don't feel com­actions which will help bring an most of her charges would feel their dorm again. When I lived dorm can get together and talk fortable doing what is their end to anti-gay discrimination the same as she did, that ho­on campus I had a liquor bottle about their feelings. But be sure right. Make your dorm a place and hatred and violence. mosexuality is a topic "non smashed against my door one to invite some gay and lesbian where they can be themselves grata" in her dorm. night with a note "Next time people to explain their feelings without fear of retribution. Mike W. Miller 
I spoke with the co-president you won't be so lucky, faggot." and thoughts. RAs and hall councils, get Documentation Coordinator of one of the mens' dorms and There is a problem. Discussion in a vacuum together and formulate a plan Office of University Computing asked him what his dorm's This co-president told me won't change anything, but if to eliminate anti-gay discrimi-Sept. 13, 1991 
Students should open ND community to all groups of people 
Dear Editor, tration' s unwillingness to rec-Rather than open our eyes tices to bring about change. our community may be genuine: 
I am horrified by the con­ognize GLND/SMC; however, I and try to learn how to live in Today, one can see not only the that everyone might share their trast between what I had heard cannot comprehend the stu-common union with these progress that has been made, uniqueness openly without the about Notre Dame and what I dents, we who make Notre people we lock our doors in but also the long road ahead to fear of humiliation. am actually witnessing. I chose Dame what it Is, being so igno-isolationistic fear. It is our true equality. This problem is not re­to attend this university be­rant as to refuse recognition to responsibility as a community Now, rather than xenopho-stricted to the homosexual cause of its excellent reputa­those we call our friends. to openly accept everyone who bia, we suffer from homopho-community on campus. We are tion; not only for being one of The chooses to become a member of bia; we are afraid of tru afraid of recognizing any of the 
.~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
the top institutions in the na­differences among members of 
tion, but also for providing a our community. 
Christian environment In which The new "Discriminatory 
a student could learn about him Harassment" policy in .12ll.La.l< is 
or her self, develop a stronger the means through which the 
relationship with God, and administration explained Its 
learn how to live in harmony feelings toward discrimination. 
with others. This policy is nothing more than 
Each individual must decide clanging cymbals if we, the if the University is fulfilling the student body, choose not to first two areas. As for the third, embrace the ideal of creating a teaching students to live with place where people can live the differences of other people, together united by their I find the University to be diversity. It is up to us, the derelict in its duty. community of Notre Dame and 
The prejudice on this cam­Saint Mary's, to make the ideals pus is extremely pervasive. It is behind that policy reality. too broad to be labeled merely We must take the first step
overcome see­
"sexism" or "racism," although toward true understanding. We
the student body as well. Are our misconceptions and ing d rent people. We want
those are two manifestations of must be willing to try to reach 
we so hypocritical as to say by prejudices and learn how to live the world to be as placid and
this prejudice. out to each other as brothers 
our actions that as long as the with one another. perfect as it seems to be on
The actions of the group and sisters united by humanity.
homosexual community of In the past Americans have campus.
SUFR last spring offer some I know we will find that we
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's been infamous for their xeno­Unfortunately, when we
Indication of the state of race can grow together in
remains "in the closet" that phobia. In the sixties we con­leave this fictitious utopia and
relations. More recently, the understanding of one another.
they do not affect our daily fronted the issues of race rela­enter the world of reality we
vote by the dorms on the Issue ...
lives? Are we so ignorant as to tions and survived. The process will discover that not everyone
of being "safe havens" for Paul Kimes 
say that since we chose not to of understanding each other is white or upper-middle class.
homosexuals proves how wide Keenan Hall
recognize the issue that it will was not a painless one: many We must open our minds and
spread this prejudice is. Sept. 14, 1991
simply disappear? people suffered countless injus-our hearts to each other so thatI understand the adminis­
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__. 
Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, September 18, 1991 

• 4 
Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 

Paige says: To know me is to worship me 
I 
believe that an uninformed reader is a careless reader, a skimmer of topic sentences, one who may overlook the subtle nuances of metaphors, as well as some really suggestive innuendos. I believe that to appreciate a columnist fully, it 
is necessary to have a grasp of the background, 
the values, the hygiene of said columnist. Only 
then can the reader behold the writings of Paige 
with the proper measure of awe, usually 
reserved for Hoosier Lottery winners. 
I believe you deserve to know some of my 
qualifications. 
I have a lot of experience. 

Stop thinking what you're thinking. I'm re­ferring to my unparallelled journalistic cre­dentials. 
My columns and articles have explored nu­merous facets of student life, sparking campus­wide debates over questions like, "Why don't we have a hunchback as a mascot?" "Exactly where is the Potwatomi Zoo?" and "Why can't this person rmd something relevant to write about?" 
Most memO'l"ably, last year in a comprehensive three-part series, I chronicled the dizzying phenomenon of the New Kids on the Block, in­cluding the alleged Wahlberg Vodka Blaze controversy, and culminating with their tri­umphant concert in the JACC. 
Notre Dame hasn't been the same. 
I am the Accent Goddess of Love. 
Having spent the more awkward years of my 
adolescence reading the entire "Sweet Dreams Romance" series, and having continued my research by investing in reference books such as "Light His Fire," I am fully qualified to instruct the lower classes in matters of the heart, including exactly when it is okay to do some light petting (never). 
Also, sometimes I fantasize about Gerardo 
wearing nothing but that little scarf on his head. 
I have a fan club. 

Last year, shortly following my flashy 
Valentine's Day spread, I received a letter from 
"Pablito" and "Skrippo," professing to be the 
Paige Smoron Fan Club (P.S.F.C.), and reading in 
part, " ... We are mere slaves to your proficient 
pen. The feelings you so effortlessly generate 
time and time again project us heavenward and 
permit us to dance with the stars." 
Deluded devotees or merry pranksters? You 
decide. I just think it's great. 
But I want a museum. 

I am the Fashion Conscience of the campus. 
And I'm taking names. 

I have used the word "condom" in print. 
Twice. 
Other Awards/Distinctions: 

In seventh grade I came in second for the 
regional spelling bee, earning a complete set of 
encyclopedias, that ':\'ere perhaps most effec­
tively utilized in eighth grade for a report on the 
French horn. I continue to be an alert speller 
today, am a champion of "all right" remaining 
two words, and refuse to abbreviate 
"miscellaneous." 

In addition, my senior year of high school I 
won the distinction of "Worst Driver" hands 
down, largely due to the widespread but mis­
represented legend of my run-in with a sizeable 
goose. As fair warning to any faint-hearted 
drivers, mine is the station wagon with an atti­
tude in D6. 
Well. 

I believe it's safe to assume the P.S.F.C. is 
being besieged with requests for applications 
and erotic initiation rituals. 

I believe I've impressed upon any 
unenlightened readers my inestimable worth as 
a color-coordinated person. 
I believe I'm done. 

Paige Smoron is AssistantAccent Editor ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 

From the 
Dark 

• 
I 

Rouault's spiritually inspired works on display 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
It's bleak. It's dark. It's ugly. 
It's a direct confrontation with isolationism, suffering, and corruption. The art of Georges Rouault is not to be taken lightly. 
Starting this week, the Notre Dame community will be able to view a selection of Rouault's graphic works at the Snite Museum. The featured series, "Miserere," is Rouault's inter­pretation of man's inhumanity to man. 
"These prints evoke a feeling of suffering that is in sync with a lot of what is happening today in Russia, Yugoslavia, and South Africa," said John Shields, the Snite's education coordinator. "Even though they were created after World War I and before the Depression, this art is still very 
'These prints relevan~ today."
Born m 1871, evoke a feeling the French . artist began his 0 f suffenng that career being 
is in sync with a app.renticed to a 
stamed glassl.ot of what is workshop, an happening in experience that
stronglyRussia influenced his' . style. The vividYugoslavia, and color of much of 
South Africa., his work, as 
______.:....:..:..;.__ well as the strong black lines in the prints on display, are very much in the tradition of stained glass win­dows. Rouault then studied with the symbolist painter Gustave Moreau, who was known for his exotic themes and erotic views of religion -Salome dancing was a favorite subject. 
From Moreau, Rouault learned artistic mediums and arrangement of composition. And like Mcireau, Rouault tack­led religious subjects, but with a very different intention. Strongly committed to the Catholic revival movement in France, Rouault's art is very spiritual. 
Learning from the masters, like Goya, Daumier, and Van Gogh, Rouault eventually be­came a contemporary of Matisse and of the Fauve genre. Also called the "Wild Beast" movement, these artists were characterized by their shock­ingly vivid use of colors: oranges, blues, purples. 
As his style evolved, Rouault became known for his familiar subjects. He painted many clowns, seeing them as a symbol of universal suffering. One of the etchings on display at the Snite, "Who Does Not Paint Himself a Face?" is fairly representative of the theme that everyone hides 
Georges Rouault's "Miserere" series went on display at the Snite this week. This etching, "Beneath a Forgotten Crucifix, • is representative of his theme 
of isolation. 
their own pain. 
Another motif of Rouault's was the prostitute. Devoid of any eroticism, Rouault drew a very bloated and decadent portrait of these women whom he saw as products of a corrupt society. Likewise, his distorted versions of judges summon up the cruelty and hypocrisy in society. 
To the point of being bluntly judgmental, Rouault often used titles to clarify any subtleties in his artwork. One etching, titled in explanation, "The Society Lady Fancies She has a Reserved Seat for Heaven," portrays a'· smug, aristocratic woman in his cynical attack on her religious insincerity. 
There is an overriding feeling of isolationism in most of his prints. In "Beneath a Forgotten Crucifix," Christ is portrayed alone, deserted by everyone, in­cluding Mary. The bleak portrait seems to ask, has Christ died in vain? 
According to Shields, Catholic writers of the time supported the content and message of Rouault's work, but were uncomfortable with its visual qualities. "They didn't think religion should be ugly," said Shields. 

At the same time, there are shades of hope in some of Rouault's prints. One work is entitled, "In These Dark Times of Vain Glory and Unbelief, Our Lady of the Ends of the Earth Keeps Watch," and the dramatic contrast between white and black heightens emotions. 
"He was a very serious social commentator," said .Shields. "He had a strong sympathy, a compassion for the poor." 
Rouault himself was more of a mystery. "In my research, I have been unable to find out any particulars concerning his personal life," said Shields. While it is known that Rouault was married with children, Shields points out that it is noteworthy that with all his re­ligious topics, portraits of the Holy Family are conspicuously missing. 
This collection is owlrled by the Snite Museum, and is one of 450 sets. Rouault preferred to work on hundreds of pieces at once, and as a result, it would tah him typically ten years to complete a painting or etching. Each time he would go back to a piece to work, he would add more layers of paint or etching, which would build up over the years into a harsh, vivid work of art. 
"This series is an excellent• sampling of what Rouault is famous for," said Shields, who will be presenting a "Noontalk," an informal walk through the gallery, on October 29 at 12:10 until 12:55 p.m. There is no charge for the informal tour, entitled "Georges Rouault: Outlined in Black," and Shields will be discussing Rouault's life as well as particular works on display. 
Everyone is invited to attend this informative session, or simply to view the works. "These prints should appeal to everybody," said Shields. "In particular, anybody studying theology, social work, or anyone with a social conscience would gain a great deal of insight from Rouault." 
These prints will be on display in the Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery of the Snite until December 29. The museum is open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., 
and is open until  8 p.m.  on  
Thursdays  for  students'  
convenience.  
Rouault's  dramatic  

Expressionist art is an effective medium for conveying his con­cern with faith, hypocrisy, cru­elty, and humanity. 
"These problems have not disappeared," said Shields. "There is an allegory for human suffering here, a global consciousness." 


Wednesday, September 18, 1991
page 13 
The Observer 
The Observer accepts classified• every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary'a office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day daaaHiedala 3p.m. All claaallieda 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, lnduding all spaces. 

House for Rent Selling stud-tickets all games. Luis Help! I need 4 Michigah State I need 1-3 Mich St GA's, have $150/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 273-1528 G.A.'s. Please call Andrew@ 233-$$, Amy x2558 Personal Notices 8am-4pm. g588. 
NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR Needed: 2 tickets for USC and 4 I am the Lizard King and I can do USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII HOUSEMATE WANTED: Shr 2 MSUI KATE 49g9_ Needed: 1 GA for Michigan State. for Tenn. Student or GAs. Call Sue anything. 25% off list price BR Hse w/ lib, quiet, grad M Lg Kit, Call Sheila 283-4842. at 271-0053. 10-5:30 everyday wshr/dry, gar, AC, plenty storg. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS $$$$ Pandora's Books corner of NO $250, shr utils A vi Oct 1 Jeff 288-WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. Please. I would like tickets to Mich. Need 5 MSU GAsII Julie x1618 Need GA's to all home games. ~ve & Howard 3878 St. and USC. If you can help call have extra Purdue tix. 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD Ed 1384 Need 2 MICH ST. GA's to shame Cai!Tomx1563 fYPING AVAILABLE October Break '91 TEMPLE OF JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? Mich St alums (Mom and Dad) 287-4082 VESTAl NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs USC NAME YOUR PRICE! WEALTHY Kent 277-1112 Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-RELATIVE WILL PAY$$$ FOR 2 Fund raising I 50% profit for your Furnished apts. near N.D. 0654. MSU GA TICKETS!!! CALL SHANA, Need 2 student tix or GA's for Monica Eigelberger is a ho. Jrganization; clubs, charities, eel. cozy 1 bedrm $255 234-1752111 Michigan State and 2 GA's and 1 Five different programs available. dean 2 bedrm $340, I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE student for Pin. Call284-3814 and "I was feeling penises just :::all Nancy at 232-8242 dept ref. 1-800-582-9320. WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A '78 GRAD NEEDS 2-3 MSU TIX. leave your name, number and the everywhere." -Monica Yant 
RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS CALL COLLECT AFTER 7 PM 301-price. NO VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL ADDED BONUS 339-5302. ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor DRINKING GLASSES, $10. NOW For Sale CHRIS X3414 or 3410 Need 4 USC GA's and teacher, longing to share our fAKING ORDERS. BETTY 239-NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU GAME. Call Bill love with newborn. We'll give your 7458 OR 289-1321 CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill NEED 2-3 MSU GAs CALL 283-1446 x1143 baby a caring, warm and happy 
T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout T­STEVE #1083 home. Expenses paid. Call Carol Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR TENN NEEDED: OneGA for NAVY. and Frank collect (212) 874-3537. Lost and Found Game Day Promotions 291-6394. Need 2 GA's for MSU GAMEl! X 1684 Call : Usa at x4832 
will pay$$$ "ARTS AND LEITERS BUSINESS FOUND: One man's watch LAPTOP COMPUTER call X1562 I NEED 4 TENNESSEE G.A.'S $$$ NEED 4 TENNGA'S. 286-9621 SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONAL Jn lawn in front of Keenan­Zenith 181, dual 3.5 drives SEAN H. @289-6439. HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT MEETING TONIGHT 6:30P.M., 124 Stanford. Please call x2722 IBM P.C. compatible I HAVE PURDUE TIX TIX, AND $$$$$ TO TRADE. HAYES-HEALY. ALL INVITED". 10 daim. DOS, in carton, rarely used. CALLJIM X2341 Need 2 USC GA'sllll 
Call 272-3255 Willing to pay$$$$$ I have four Purdue tickets! Michigan State -2 rooms at LOST: SILVER FILIGREE PEN NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's call Beth 286-9421 Marriott, Sept. 20 & 21. 217-546­WITH MY NAME CARVED ON IT­Tape Deck, Stereo Cabinet, CALL JOE X2341 Best offer takes them I 0981. LEIS ROBBINS. I'VE HAD IT FOR Very large pillow. Steve, PLEASE HELP!! 13 YEARS AND IT MEANS A LOT 239-6847 Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STill Call My two (BIG) brothers are coming call Chris @ X2123 $50 FREE merchandise; room TO ME. I LOST IT IN THE Pete x1791. for the USC game-they will be decor, Xmas gifts, etc. Host a BOOKSTORE. PLEASE CALL 273-Racing bike in excellent condition. VERY MAD ifl NEED 2-5 MSU GA's. home/dorm or catalog party with )703. Many accesories. Call #3718. LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3 don't get them tix. PLEASE CALL 287-3587. Decor and More. Call Nancy at 
Tennessee studs. Call George NEED 2 USC GA'S-PLEASE II 232-8242. LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT '84 HONDA PRELUDE, AUTO, at x1672. Call Colleen at X4900. Need tickets to Michigan STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE SUNROOF, 63,000 MI. 272-5640. State. Call Ann #40 11 If you taped PRIME TIME last RETURN. NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. Ssaale: 2 stud ticket books Thursday evening, please call 
Call Dan @271-9239 2 WOMEN'S & 2 MEN'S 10-CALL JOHN 312-g51-4167 DAYS, 5 games left!I @287-2528 Need several Michigan State Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 pm or 
SPEED SCHWINN FULL SIZE OR 312-g29-9411 EVENINGS. G.A.'s; call x2789 272-3753 after 5. LOST: BROWN LEATHER BIKES. $100 EA. WALLET ON 919 (MON.) 272-6139. NEED 4 NAVY GA'S Needed: Have MSU Stud for Sale-Chris Dear Mojo Risin', IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ED CALL X3806 Mich. St.+ USC GA's X1252 ::>A STEVE AT X3402 REWARD!! FUTONS ETC. Joe#1245 Happy Belated 21stllllll 
Best Prices! DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S Selling std tix book You have one free massage lound: intermediate accounting From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call 1 MSU 232-1094 after 6 PM COMING your way-or should JOCk. 277-9468 1-800-484-1060 2PITI NEED: NO ALUM NEEDS TICKETS we say OUR way???? 
When You Hear a Tone, Dial1576 PLEASE HELP! TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME Need 3 STATE GAs or STUDS FOUND: RELIGIOUS MEDAL. WE SHIP KAREN X4918 GAMES. BADLYx3673 We love you, ::ALL 289-5311 ANTHONY A Vosidus Production CALL JOE AT #271-1430. Celene (90%) and 
Please help my HOMETOWN­NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR Aimee (10%) LOST: Silver claddagh ring with ATIENTION: BANDS 1111 HONEY visit me! I need 3 Tenn POOR RELATIVES. Jreen marble heart. Left in Quality PA system 4-sale Tixl Call Tim x1640 NOTRE DAME CALL KEVIN X1589 Are you going to PURDUE? I need fheodore's bathroom durtng VERY REASONABLEII TICKETS WANTED a ride. Beth x4341 Drovers concert around 9:00. Call John x11 09 or Geoff x 1 064 WANTED: 3 PITI GA's for 271-1371 AN HONEST FAN WITH A LARGE Extreme sentimental value. Please family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! FAMILY NEEDS MSU AG'S. WE FEMALE MUSICIANS WANTED TO :all x4231 if found. Ask for Erin. Walk to NO from beautiful HELP MEl Dan x234g NEED M.ST. TIX USE ANY WE BUY-GAURANTEED FORM AN ALL-GIRLS BAND. CALL 
contemporary. 11 years NEW. 3 NEED PITITIX JEFF 272-9602 JONI X3793 OR LAURA X3486 BR, 2 112 bath, 2300 sq. ft. Call Need to sell4 Michigan State 213-470-4419 Wanted Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or GA's--<:all Kathryn-x2808 Lv. Mssg. I Have 2 NAVY GA's and would REBECCA HELLMAN, COME TO 
Cressy & Everett BH & G. 233-like to trade for 2 PITI GA's THE NAVY BALL WITH MElli FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND 6141. Need to sell 2 Mich. State Need Mich St. and USC GAs Chris x1998 EXCELLENT BUSINESS GA's--<:all Laurie-x2867 call Phil at x2096 THE CADILLAC MAN EXPE RIENCEII COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr, I need 2 GA tickets to the Michigan P.S. MORE LATERIIIIIII Openings available for individuals or $700/bst John@271-9239 Need 6 GAs for Michigan State. TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS state game. 
student orgamzations to promote Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100 Let's make a deal. Call Mike at 283-RANDY 800-323-7687 Call 277-8962 I!Happy 19thll the country's most successful 386sx mthrbrdlupgrade your 1305 To my little danish. Hope SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­PC! $350, 386 notebook NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL Need one Pin GA. X2172 ask for you have a good one. Nub Nu, Campus Programs 40megs, VGA, $2400/b Air Force GA's, X1502 MIKE X 2322 Keri Joe. 1-800-327-6013. Manx1778 
NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS. Michigan St GA's NEEDED! I HAVE 2 PITI GA'S. WILL TRADE 
NEED 6 GA'S FOR PITISBURGH United Air plane coupon GA'S OR STUDENTS. WILL Call Sharon ·284-5146 FOR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. LEAVE HEY DADDY I THERESA BURKE RICH RELATIVES WILL PAY HIGH value $106;-TRADE PURDUE TIX PLUS $$ MESSAGE. 1-800-345-6725, EXT. IS 211111 MAKE SURE YOU WISH PRICE 1111 Sale: $60 PLEASE CALL MIKE AT: I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY 76063. THE HOMECOMING QUEEN A CALL CHUCK -2226 271-8401 256-7034 PLEASE HELP MEl x4312 John HAPPY BIRTHDAY. SHE JUST 
Need 2 MSU GA'slll Will trade MIGHT BE YOUR "MATCH MADE 
ROOM AT SIGNATURE INN FOR Need stud & GAs for most home Need Mich St GA's 2 Navy GAs or buy outright. Also IN HEAVEN!" WE LOVE VA, Tl Do you play bass guitar? If so, we MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND games. x4282 Karen x4808 need 1 MSU stud. Call Dan 273­need you. A few NO students are CALL 277-6703 3203 forming a band. Call Jason at287-NEEDED: 2 GA's FOR EITHER I need tix for Tenn. (GA or Stu) -N.D. FOOTBALL FANS­
8818. PITI, USC or NAVY. Call Joe at x2064. Buy my ticket book. Call with LISTEN TO: 
Tickets CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks! offer by Thus. 10 p.m. x4673. "BUD SWIRSKI'S IRISH CLEAN-UP PERSON I need 2 MSU GA's. SUPERFANS" APPLY AT BRIDGETS I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL -USC TROJANS-Call283-2067. 2 State GA's for sale. ON OLDIES 1490 A.M., 287-6966 EVES. HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 -need SIX g.a.'s Jeff x4073 11:00 TO 12:00, SATURDAY 
5.00 PER HOUR CALL A 0 B at x1845 2 USC GA's Needed BEFORE THE GAME !IIIII NEED 2GA OR 1STD!1GA FOR Call Patrick@ 271-1573 I just want somebody to love... 'DA IRISHIIIIII 
Need Bassist, Drummer, and USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. and two NAVY GA'sl Keyboardis!. I need 2-3 Michigan St. GA's HELPII NEED 2 PITT GA'S FOR THink you can help? call1371 HEY BO-I CAN'T WAIT UNTIL WE Contact: Wheels 3131 or $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ call Kathleen@ X4082. PARENTS CALL TIM X4063 ask for STEVE. WIN THIS WEEKEND! I'LL MEET 
Hoof4788 WILL TOP •ANY• PRICE !II YOU AT THE LAKE AFTER THE Need I.U. and all other tickets Need 6 USC GA's and 3 Tennessee My dad's rich. NO KIDDING !II GAMEl WANTED: Off-campus roommate. Ga's. Sell me an MSU GA. 
,.­
Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. call Bill@ X1747 Callll3718 Mickey, x1846 STANFORD TX 4 SALE I QUOTES FROM MICHIGAN: 
(312) 472-4311 -If we win, I'm dancing naked on the $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade Will trade awsome Mich. St. ASK FOR MR. BASBUGILL diving board! 
Wanted: FACULTY ADVISOR for for 4 Pill GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. G.A.'s for USC G.A.'s #1798 -Daddy, there are police at the door! presently forming I HAVE Four Michigan St. GA's -Ed is pounding MAD DOG! UNO WATERSKI CLUB NEEDMSU TIX I Still Need MSU Stud Tickets NEEDED:1 TENN STUD TIX-Iife I NEED Two USC or Pin GA's -MR. PEETE, get me a beer 
call Chris @X2123 Angie x2172 Buy or Trade, Steve 277-474g depends on lt.Price no object.Call Will TRADE or SELL or BUY -Shut Ass I 
Brian x3083 Call x1694 -ART AND PENMANSHIP DO NOT NEED RIDE TO DUBUQUE, lA I NEED 2 USC GAs and will pay. COUNT, we've been thru this! OCT 4-6-WILL HELP WITH GAS Help!II Call DAVE at X1859 I HAVE 2 GA 'S FOR MICH ST Have GA, MSU, Call 286-<1730 -If Miss New York wins, we're all X2819 EVENINGS. jumping in the pool! 
My parents are coming out to Please help, I need TennGA's, call CHRIS X1699 -Is she really a CHIC, Ryan? celebrate my 21st birthday on Kevin@# 1407. All Stud Tix -We were just PRETENDING! For Rent Saturday the 21st. They need 2 289 7506 (after 6) 
MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a NEED 1 MICH ST STUD TICKET HELP I JIMBO­VCR, TV Rentals: golden birthday. CALL MIKE 272-7581 I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN I NEED TWO PITT GA's YOU are the ONLY guy for mel Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH Will trade two Purdue GA's I love you with every bit of me (even only $99.95. Call Julie at x1342 WILL TRADE 2 GA's ANY HOME CALL 3353 ASK FOR SCOTI or pay cash the bits that get mad sometimes) 13" color TV, two semesters only GAME FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097 CALL MIKE @ x3263 Luv, l.b. $69.95. I have $$$$$ for your Mich St VCR, two semesters, $99.95. GAs! Call Kirstin at4279 or Need 1 MICH ST GA HAVE 4 MSU GA's, NEEDED! Pin GAs Navy stud. If INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. For fast free delivery, call 4208. Jackie 277-3610 want to trade for 2 Pitt and 2 USC you can help call Scon 2373. Good rates. Save Money. Call me COLLEGIATE RENTALS GA's. x1236. for a quote 9:30-6:00, 272-5959. I need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why NEED 2 USC GAs I NEED TENN TIX BADLVI 289-1993. Office near campus. 
don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. call 234-7740 I need 2 GA's for either USC or Pitt. CALL MIKE AT 1103. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Call me for a good time, 277-6865. X2479 LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 219-291-7153 NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's for Alum. every Sa!. & Sun. at 8:00am. 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR FOR SALE: 4 MICH ST. GA I NEED MICH. ST. GA'S Please call Susan: 284-4435 Eastern time. Train and jump the 
BED&BREAKFAS't tOr:t NO/ST. NAVY GAME. CALL MARK BEST OFFER CALL MIKE@ X1862 same day. Modem equipment and MARY'S FAMILIES. 2 COLLECT AT 1-407-866-5161. TOM X1781 NEEDED:TENN GA'S. CALL training programs. Licensed BEDROOMS, PRIVATE BATH. i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x11g1 MICHELLE 284-5115. instructors. FFI call Skydive TEN MINUTES FROM CAMPUS I NEED 8 PITI & 4 TENN. TIXII Hastings (616) 948-2665. SAFEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER Need just one MSU GA-il! pay i need 2 MICH. ST. GA's. Jeff Awesome Senior Ticket book on AREA. 234-2626 WILL BE REFUSED!II $$$ Ill Call Deb X4969 x11g1. sale call and leave offer 284-512g 
see CLASS I page 16 

, 
,
,' SCOREBOARD 
page 14 Wednesday, September 18, 1991 


' LEAGUE LEADERS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
BATTING-Franco, Texas, .340; Boggs, Boston, .331: Grlfley Jr. Seattle•.329;

f Palrnelro. Texas, .326; Molitor, Milwaukee. .326; Thomas, Chicago, .325; CRipken, Baltimore, .325. RUNS-Molltor, Milwaukee. 11 5; Canseco, oakland, 105; Palmelro, Texas, 102; Sierra, Texas, 102; White, Toronto, 101; Franco, Texas, 96; Thomas, Chicago, 95. RBI-Fielder, Detrott, 123; Canseco, Oakland, 111; Thomas, Chicago, 1 03; Sierra, Texas, 103; Caner, Toronto, 102; CRipken, Battlmore, 98; JuGonzalez, Texas, 95. HITS-Moiltor, Milwaukee, 191; CRipken, Baltimore, 187; Palmelro. Texas, 185; Sierra, Texas, 183; Puckett, Minnesota, 181; Franco, Texas, 179; Sax, New York, 172. DOUBLES-Palrnelro, Texas, 44; C Rlpken, Baltimore, -42; Grllfey Jr, Seattle, 41; Sierra. Texas, 40; Caner, Toronto, 39; Boggs, Boston, 39; Reed, Boston, 38; White, Toronto, 38. TRIPLES-RAiomar, Toronto, 11; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Molitor, Milwaukee, 11; McRae, Kansas City, 9; White, Toronto, 9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; Devereaux, Battlmore, 8; Mack. Minnesota, 8; Polonla, Calllornla, B. HOME RUNS-Raider, Detroit, 42; Canseco, Oakland, 41; Caner, Toronto, 33; Thomas, Chicago, 30; CRipken, Baltimore, 29; Tartabull, Kansas City, 28; CDavls, Minnesota, 28. STOLEN BASES-RHenderson. oakland, SO; Raines, Chicago, 48; RAiomar, Toronto, 45; Polonla, Call1omla, 43; Cuyler, Detroit, 35; White, Toronto, 32; Franco, Texas, 28; Sax, New York, 28. PITCHING (14 Declslons)-Erlckson, Minnesota, 18·6, .750, 3.15; Hesketh, Boston, 10-4, .714, 3.33; Langston, California, 17-7, .708, 3.00; JoGuzman, Texas, 12·5, .706, 2.86; Gulllckeon, Detroit, tB-8, .692, 4.15; Finley, Calnomla, 17-8, .680, 3.60; Clemens, Boston, t6·8, .667, 2.52. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 2t0; RJohnson. Seattle, t97; McDowell, Chicago, t79; Ryan, Texas, 172; Langston, California, t56; Candlottl, Toronto, t56; Anley, Calnornla, t55. SAVES-Eckersley, oakland, 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Harvey, Calnornla, 39; Aguilera, Minnesota, 39; Henke, Toronto, 32; Thigpen. Chicago, 30; Montgomery, Kansas Ctty, 29. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE BATT I NG-Morrls, Cincinnati, .325; TGwynn, San Diego, .317; Pendleton, Atlanta, .314; Jose, St. Louis, .312; McGee San Francisco, .3tt; Bonilla, Pittsburgh: . 307; WCiark, San Francisco, .303. RUN 8-Butler. los Angeles, 103; Johnson, New York, 100; Sandberg, Chicago, 
94: Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 92; Gam, Atlanta, 89, JBell, Pittsburgh, 88· Pendleton Atlanta, 87. ' • 
RBI-Johnson, New York, 106• WCiark San Francisco, 105; Bonds, Plttsbu,rgh 10t: Dawson, Chicago, 97'; Gant Atlant~ 94: ~2~rllf, San Diego, 93; Bonlila, Pittsburgh: 
HITS-TGwynn, San Diego, 168; Butler, los Angeles, 186; Bonilla, Pittsburgh 162· Pendleton, Atlanta, , 62; Jose, St. 'Louis'. 159; Sandberg, Chicago, 158; Grace, Chicago, !55; Sabo, Cincinnati, 155· GBell 
Chicago, 155. ' ' 
DOUBLES-Bonllla, Pittsburgh, 41; Jose, St. Louis, 39; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Sabo, Cincinnati, 32; Morris, Cincinnati 31· Gant Atlanta, 31; JBell, Pittsb~rgh' 31: McReynolds, New York, 31. ' ' 
TRIPLES-Lanklord, St. Louis, t4; TGwynn, San Diego, 11; Finley' Houston, 1 0; LGonzalez, Houston, 8; Grissom, Montreal, 8; ;andaele, Houston, 7; Van Slyke, Pktsburgh, 
HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York 35· MaWIIilams, San Francisco, 30; Gant', Atlanta, 29; Dawson, Chicago, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; McGriff, San Diego 27· KvMttcheil, San Francisco, 27. ' ' 
STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 72; 
Gri.ssom, Montreal, 69; DeShields, Montreal, 

53, Bonds, Pittsburgh, 40; Lankford, St. 
Louis, 37; Coleman, New York, 37; Butler los Angeles, 37. ' PITCHING (14 Declslons)-Rijo Cincinnati, t4-4, .778, 2.39: Carpenter, st: Louis, 10-4, .714, 4.23; Downs, San 
Francisco, t 0-4, .714, 4_t7; Smiley Pittsburgh, 18-8, .692, 3.39; Hurst, Sa~ Diego, 15•7• .682, 3.22; Avery, Atlanta, 16­
8· .&67, 3.48; MiWiillams, Philadelphia, 10• 5, .667, 2.19. 
I NII STANDINGS 
t. Indiana, Pa. (4) 
2. 
Mississippi Coli. 

3. 
Grand Valley St. 

4. 
East Texas St. 

5. 
Jacksonville St. 

6. 
Mankato St. 

7. 
Pittsburg St. 

8. 
N. Colorado 

9. 
Virginia Union 

10. 
Wofford 

11. 
Norfolk State 

12. 
Nonh Dakota St. 

13. 
Ashland t4. Cal St. Sacramento t5. Angelo St. 


16. 
Shippensburg 

17. 
Winston-Salem 

18. 
Millersville, Pa. 

19. 
Butler 

20. 
UC Davis 


TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 

BOSTON RED SOX-Purchased the contracts of Eric Wedge, catcher, and Wayne Housle, outfielder, from Pawtucket of the International League. Moved Tim Naehrlng, shortstop, and Mike Miller, pttcher, from the 21-to the 60-day disabled list. 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Recalled Ruben Amaro, outfielder, from Edmonton ol the Pacific Coast League. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Called up Tim Mcintosh, lnfielder-ca1cher; Jim Olander, outfielder; and Cal Eldred and Chris George, pitchers, from Denver of the American Association. 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball A..oclatlon CHARLOTIE HORNETS-Signed John Crotty, guard. 
FOOTBALL National Football League CINCINNATI BENGALS-Walved Mike Brennan, offensive lineman. 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Re-signed Paul Lankford, cornerback, and Donnie Gardner, defensive end. Placed Kerry Glenn, cornerback; Shawn Lee, nose tackle; and Fred Banks, wlde receiver, on Injured 
reserve. 
Canadian Football League 

BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Cal 
Duncan, offensive lineman. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 

MONTREAL CANADIENS-Traded Andrew Cassels, center, to the Hartford Whalers for a t992 aecond-rou nd draft pick. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Returned Chris Taylor, center, to London of the Ontario Hockey League. International Hockey League 

SAN DIEGO GULLS-Signed Sergei Starlkov, defenseman. 
SOCCER abjor Soccer League 

DALLAS SIDEKICKS-Signed Terry Woodbury, forward, and Troy Snyder and Mike Powers, defenders, to one-year contracts. 
SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Signed Ben Collins, defender. Named George Katakalldls youth marketing coordinator. 

COU.EGE COLORADO STATE-Named Corey Johnson athletic director. 
LOUISIANA STATE-Announced that Stanley Thomas, defensive tackle, and Shawn King, outside linebacker, quit the football team. 
Record Pts Pvs 2·0-0 80 3 2-0-0 76 4 2-0-0 72 
6 2-0-0 67 7 1·0-0 61 5 2-0-0 59 
16 1-1-0 56 2 2-0-0 54 8 2-0-0 50 15 2-0-0 42 13 3-0-0 40 0-t-0 39 2·0-0 32 2-0-0 26 2·0-0 23 18 2-0-0 2t 2-0-0 t7 1·0-0 13 t19 2-0-0 8 t-0-0 4 
PENNANT RACES 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pet. GB Toronto Bt 64 .559 Boston 78 67 .538 
3 
Detroit 75 69 .521 
5112 Remaining Games TORONTO (17)-Home (6): Sept. 27-29, Minnesota; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, Calnornla. 

Away (11): Sept. t7-t8, Seattle; Sept. 20­22, Oakland; Sept. 23-25, Calllomla; Oct. 4­6, Minnesota 
BOSTON (17)-Home (10): Sept. t8, Baltimore; Sept. 20-22, New York; Oct. 1.3• Detroit; Oct. 4-6, Milwaukee. Away (7): Sept. 23-25, Battlmore; Sept. 27-30, Milwaukee. 
DETROIT (tB)-Home (11): Sept. 20-22, Milwaukee; Sept. 23·26, Cleveland; Sept. 27-30, Baltimore. Away (7): Sept. 18, Cleveland; Oct. 1-3, Boston; Oct. 4-6, Baltimore. West Division 
W L Pet. Minnesota 87 58 .600 Chicago 80 66 .s48 7 112 Remaining Games 

MINNESOTA (17)-Home (10): Sept. 17_ t8, Kansas City; Sept. 20-22, Texas; Sept. 24-25, Chicago; Oct. 4-6, Toronto. Away 17): Sept. 27-29, Toronto; Sept. 30-0ct. t-3 
Chicago. ' CHICAGO (t6)-Home (11): Sept. t8, Oakland; Sept. 20-22, Cal~ornla; Sept. 27• 29, Seattle; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-3• Minnesota. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, Minnesota; Oct. 4-6 Seattle. ' 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 
W L Pet. Pittsburgh 87 58 .600 St. Louis 76 68 .528 10 1/2 Remaining Games 
PITTSBURGH (17)-Home (11): Sept. t8­19, St. Louis; Sept. 20-22, Philadelphia; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, New York; Oct. 4-6, Montreal. Away (6): Sept. 24-26, New York· 
Sept. 27-29, Montreal. ' ST. LOUIS (t8)-Home (7): Sept. 23 (DH)-25, Montreal; Sept. 27-29. Away (11): Sept. 18·19, Pittsburgh; Sept. 20-22, New York; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, Montreal; Oct. 4.6, 
Chicago. • 
West Division w L Pet. GB Atlanta 82 62 .569 Los Angeles 82 63 .566 112 Remaining Games 
ATLANTA (18)-Home (6): Sept. 24_26, Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houston. Away 112): Sept. 17, San Francisco; Sept. 18·19, San 
Diego; Sept. 20-22, Los Angeles; Sept. 27­29, Houston; Sept. 30-0ct. t-2, Cincinnati. 
LOS ANGELES (t7)-Home (t3): Sept. 17, Cincinnati; Sept. t8-19, Houston; Sept. 20_ 22• Atlanta; Sept. 27-29, San Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, San Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, San Diego; Oct. 4-6, San Francisco. 
198 
GMaddux, Chicago, 175; Glavine Ailanta'
STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York 

.1r································
171; Harnisch, Houston, 163; Gooden, Ne..; 
York, 150; Benes, San Diego, 148; Greene Philadelphia, t46. ' SAVES-LeSmlth, St. Louis, 41; Dibble, Cincinnati, 29; MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia, 28; Franco, New York, 28; Righetti, San Francisco, 22; Lefferts, San Diego 21· BLandrum, Pittsburgh, 17; DaS,mith' Chicago, t7; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. ' 
A MEMORIAL 
TO THE 
~RICAN 
sM~~ 
I
WILL HELP 
IN THE CONOUEST'f 
OF CANCER. f 

The Observer 
has positions available for 
DAY EDI70R 
Contact Dannika at 283-7471 Must be available Monday or Friday Afternoons 
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East Division 
w L Pet CE l10 Streak Home AwayToronto 81 
64 .559 z-6-4 Lost2 42-:33 39-31Boston 76 67 .538 3 z-7-3 Wont 39-.32 39-35 Detroit 
75 69 .521 5 1/2 z-4-6 Lost2 44-26 31-43Milwaukee 69 74 .483 
tt 4-6 Won3 38-34 31-40
New York 61 83 .424 19 1/2 t-9 Lost3 34-40 27-43 Baltimore 61 
84 .421 20 6-4 Lost1 30-45 3t-39
Cleveland 48 95 .336 32 4-6 Wont 24-46 24-49 West Division 
w L Pet CE L10 Streak Home AwayMinnesota 
87 59 .596 z-5-5 Lost1 46-26 41-33Chicago 80 66 .548 
7 z-6-4 Won2 41-29 39-37 
Texas 

76 67 .53t 9 112 6-4 Lost1 4t-30 35-37 Oakland 76 69 .524 tO 
1/2 4-6 Lost1 4t-30 35-39Seattle 73 70 .510 t2 1/2 5-5 Won3 40-29 33-41 
Kansas City 73 71 .507 13 Wontz-5-5 35-39 38-32California 72 72 .500 14 z-6-4 Wont 36-39 36-33 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Division 
w L Pet CE L10 Streak Home AwayPittsburgh 87 58 .600 6·4 
Won2 43-27 44·31St. Louis 76 68 
.528 tO 112 5-5 Lostt 45-29 3t-39Chicago 70 75 .483 17 2·8 
Lost3 42-33 28-42 New York 70 75 .483 17 5-5 Wont 
35-37 35-38 Philadelphia 68 77 .469 19 
Z-4-6 Wont 41-34 27-43Montreal 64 80 .444 22 112 z-7-3 Lostt 
34-35 30-45 West Division w L Pet CE l10 Streak Horne AwayAtlanta 82 62 .569 
z-8-2 Lost1 45-30 37-32 Los Angeles 82 63 .566 112 z-7-3 
Wont 45·24 37-39San Diego 74 71 .510 8 112 z-7-3 Wont 35-35 39-36
Cincinnati 70 74 .486 t2 San Francisco 66 78 .458 16 Houston 58 86 .403 24 z-denotes first game was a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Monday'a Gamea Milwaukee 5, New York 4 Baltimore 9, Boston 2 Minnesota 9, Kansas City 0 Seattle 6, Toronto 5, 11 Innings Only games scheduled Tueaday'a Gamea Late Game Not Included Milwaukee 2, New York o Cleveland 3, Detroit 1 Boston 4, Baltimore 3 Chicago 1, Oakland o Kansas Chy 4, Minnesota 2 Calnornla 7, Texas 2 
Toronto at Seattle, (n) Wedneaday•a Gamea 
Kansas City (Aquino 7-3) at Minnesota (Erickson t8-6) t·15 p m Bahlmore (D.Johnson 4-5) at Boston (Gardiner 8-7) 6"05 ·P m · · Milwaukee (Navarro t3-11) at New York (J.Johnson' 5-.11) l'30 Detroit (Leiter 8-4) at Cleveland (Nagy 9-t2), 7:3S p.m. ' · p.m. Oakland (Stewart 1t-9) at Chicago (McDowell 16·9) a·os p CaiHornla (Finley H-8) at Texas (Ryan 10·6), 8:3S ·P-~-.m. 
Toronto (Candlottl 13-1t) at Seattle (R.Johnson 12-tO) 10·05 
Thur..Say'a Gamea CaiHomla at Texas, 8:35 p.m . Kansas City at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. Only games scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Monday•a Gamea St. Louis 3, Philadelphia o Phtsburgh 5, Chicago 4 San Diego 6, Houston t San Francisco 8, Atlanta 5 Los Angeles 6, Cincinnati 5 12 Innings Only games scheduled ' Tueaday'a Gamea Late Garnes Not Included Montreal 5, New York 4, 1st game New York 3, Montreal 2, 2nd game Philadelphia 4, St. Louis 2 
Pittsburgh 9, Chicago 2 Houston at San Diego, (n) Cincinnati at Los Angeles, (n) Atlanta at San Francisco, (n) Wedneaday'a Gamea 4-6 lost1 38 .. 37 32-37 4-6 Won2 37-35 29-43 z-2-8 Lost2 34-38 24-48 
• · p.m. 

Montreal (De.Martinez 14-9) at Philadelphia (Mulholland 14-11) St. Louis (B.Smlth 11-8) at Pittsburgh (Walk 7-2) 7"35 ' 7:35 p.m. Chicago (Maddux 11·10) at New York (Viola 12·14) ].4:-m. Atlanta (Giavlne 18-10) at San Diego (Bones 4-3) g·os p.m. Cincinnati (A t • · p.m.
rrnsrong 7·11) at San Francisco (Wilson t0-10) t005 Houston (KIIe 7-9) at Los Angeles (Morgan 12-9), t0:35 p.m. ' : p.m. 
The Woodwind/Brasswind 
Major Brand Band Instruments Sales, Rentals and Repairs 
Also, a full line of Amps, Keyboards, Guitars, PA Systems, and Drums including:Korg, Roland, EV lberez, Gibson, Fostex Tama, and others. The best gear at the best prices. Stop in and see us! 
19880 State Line Rd. South B~end, IN 
272-8266 
Open: Monday, Friday 10 a.m.. -7 p.m Saturday 9 a.m. -4 p.rn. 
-----------------------------------------------------------~------------­
·Wednesday, September 18, 199'1 -' ..:..-·...,.-'~. ·· ..,.,.,..,__ -· · 
The Observer page 15 
Pirates rip Cubs; magic number is 8 
PITTSBUHGII (AP) -Barry Bonds homered and became the eighth Pittsburgh player to have consecutive 100-RBI seasons as the Pirates beat the Chicago Cubs 9-2 Tuesday night, reducing their magic number for clinching the NL East to eight. 
Stove Buechele added a double, a two-run triple and a sacrifice fly as the Pirates won for the fifth time in seven games. 
Doug Drabek (14-13) ended a personal two-game losing streak and took a shutout into the eighth inning. 
Phlllles 4, cardinals 2 
PHILADELPHIA -Cliff Brantley pitched seven strong innings for his first major­league victory as Philadelphia defeated St. Louis. 
Brantley (1-1), making only his second big-league start, allowed two runs, six hits, struck out two and walked two. Mitch Williams pitched two innings for his 28th save. 

Red Sox 4, Orioles 3 
BOSTON -The Boston Red 
Sox won and lost Tuesday 
night. 

Jack Clark's wind-blown 
home run broke a sixth-inning 
tie and Jeff Reardon protected 
the lead for his 40th save as the 
Red Sox beat the Baltimore 
Orioles 4-3. 
But the victory was tempered by the possible loss of Mike Greenwell for the rest of the season. 
"It doesn't look good," Boston manager Joe Morgan said after Greenwell sustained a pulled right groin muscle and a possible torn cartilage in his right knee. 
The Red Sox, who had lost four of five to Baltimore at Fenway Park, won for the 11th time in 14 games. 
Glenn Davis hit a two-run homer in the first inning and Leo Gomez connected in the second, putting Baltimore ahead 3-0. But rookie Kevin Morton (6-3) settled down and left after the sixth with the score tied at 3. 
Clark hit the first pitch in the bottom of the sixth to right. The opposite-field fly got caught in a crosswind and landed in the seats, just out of Dwight Evans' reach near the 302-foot mark, for Clark's 23rd home run. 
White Sox 1, A's 0 
CHICAGO -Bo Jackson's solo shot in the seventh inning off Ron Darling was all Chicago needed in defeating Oakland and pulling within seven games of AL West leading Minnesota. 

'Tiian/(you to tlie foca{ mercliants for tlie gifts tliey proviaea 
J'lnnounces tlie aoor prize winners from our 1991 ~resliman We{come Wagon 
Theresa Forst  Kendra Combe  Kerry  Plank  
Laura  Berry  Amy Lutz  Jim  Kleshinski  
Jeanne Heffernan  Jeff Goddard  Heather Arnotp  
Tim Durow  Jed Hartings  David Mateja  
Matt McCiimon  Michelle Lemiesz  Sean Farnan  

Robin Mogo  John Elson  Jack Fenn Ill  
Karen Kutz  Jon Langenfeld  Aaron Lebrand  
Mike S. McMahon  Bridget Loop  Chad Sutcliffe  
William Loria  Jim Joyce  Mike Ray  
Julie Rister  Joe Scalise  Theresa Murphy  
John Thiede  Edina Zapata  Kristen McDonald  
Megan Gary  Erica Samulskl  Michael Lewis  
Jeremy Langford  John Evans  Michele Cline  
Tara Bonner  Kathy Kopecky  Mike Mathews  
Mike Kersey  Cara Chuderewlcz  Jeff McGarrity  
Brad Hunter  Gwendolyn Holinka  Gina Beltramo  
Michael Van Der Ven  John T. Rock  Sarah Donnelly  
Jared Desrosiers  Eddie Wetzel  Joe Bianco  
Dawn Overstreet  Bill Dale  Angie Roby  
Amy C. Shaw  Dawn Garcia  Eric Nunes  
Natasha Semien  Peter Overheu  Bob Fisher  
Jane·Daly  Mike Ferguson  Allison Barbeau  
Gina Direnzo  Theresa McCaughey  Jack Daly  
Ed Jamieson  Chris Browning  Jennifer Friedman  
John Ruskusky  Christy Keyes  Christy Keyes  
Leslie Dittmar  T.G.Aranda  Laura Benny  

Please stop by the Campus Ministry office at Badin Hall at your earliest opportunity to claim your gift. 

Bruno's Pizza Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Floral House & Gifts Frank's Red Hots I Can't Believe It's Yogurt Instant Copy of Indiana Macri's Deli MichaelAngelo's Floral Co. Notre Dame Book Store Notre Dame Folk Choir Pattie's Gourmet Burgers Robert Lee's Salon United Limo University Hair Stylists Vic's Subs 
Dawson withdraws appeal, serves one-day suspension 
NEW YORK (AP) -Andre Dawson of the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday withdrew his appeal of a one-day suspension, levied last month in an umpire-humping, hat­throwing incident in a game against the Cincinnati Reds. 
The suspension was held in abeyance during the appeal period, and the National League said Tuesday that Dawson would serve it during that night's game at Pittsburgh. 
Dawson bumped umpire Joe West after disputing a called third strike in a game on July 23 and later threw bats out of the dugout. He was suspended for "incidental contact with the umpire and Inciting the crowd" and immediately appealed. 
The incident took place in the same game in which Cincinnati reliever Rob Dibble was fined for throwing a ball at Doug Dascenzo of Chicago as he ran to first base after a suicide squeeze hunt. 
The two incidents apparently were unrelated. 

Other Jose doing just fine as part of Cardinals' revival 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -When the St. Louis Cardinals traded National League hatting cham­pion Willie McGee last season, they had no idea they might be getting one in return. 
With a couple of weeks to go, Felix Jose is in the hunt. He's fourth in the batting race with 
a .312 average, 13 points be­hind leader Hal Morris of Cincinnati, only five points be­hind runner-up Tony Gwynn of San Diego and a point ahead of McGee, now with San Francisco. 
"He's a slasher like Willie," manager Joe Torre said. 
Gwynn, who has won four hatting titles, will be a specta­tor the rest of the season after 
~ . .. ~.,. ...... f ................. . 
undergoing arthroscopic surgery to repair cartilage damage to his left knee. 
If Jose can win the batting ti­tle, it would be the first time players traded for each other won titles in consecutive sea­sons. But he doesn't want to talk about the numbers game. 

"I don't even think about It," he said. "I never want to think about winning the hatting title. The only thing I want to try to do is hit .300. That's what I've been working on every day." 
When the Cardinals acquired Jose and minor-league third baseman Stan Royer for McGee in August 1990, Torre thought he'd be getting a player capable of hitting 30 home runs instead of a .300 hitter. Jose looks like a power hitter, but so far he's been another typical Cardinals player, hitting the ball into the gaps and using his speed. 
In many respects, he's been like a younger McGee. 
For instance, he has only six home runs, hut is second in the NL with 39 doubles and is sec­ond on the team with 67 RBis. 
"Every time I hit the ball it never takes off," Jose said. "I'm going to be working hard over the winter to try to find my home run swing. Right now ... it is too late for that. I forgot about that a long time ago." 
He's also a free swinger like McGee, sometimes hacking at most anything within range, and has the ability to look awe­some or awful on consecutive pitches. But unlike McGee, with two strikes, his average is about .350. 
''I'd hate to rely on that for the rest of my career, getting to two strikes and then getting the hit," Torre said. "I don't think I'd have won a hatting title do­ing that." 
Torre is trying to work with Jose and other young players on concentrating on a hitting zone and looking for specific pitches. He said that kind of approach would greatly Im­prove Jose's home-run total. 
"Right now, he's just a free­wheeler," Torre said. "He just swings. The way you hit home runs is by getting ahead In the count, looking for something, and zeroing ln." 
To illustrate his point, Torre drew an imaginary rectangle that began above the knees and around the waist. That was his hitting zone. 
"A lot of times when you zone it, you don't know whether you hit a fastball or a breaking ball," Torre said. "Once It goes through that sort of window, you hack at it." 
Moving the fences in 10 feet at Busch Stadium between the power alleys next season also should help Jose's power num­bers. 


~--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------­
. r 

page 16 
Wednesday, September 18, 1991
The Observer 

Daly would add Thomas SPORlS BRIEFS 
to Olympic hoops team 
NEW YORK (AP) --Chuck Daly stopped over at the Spanish island of Majorca be­fore going on to Barcelona. There, he experienced the howling winds that he said con­tribute to such a high suicide rate. 
"So, I may never return if we don't win the gold medal," he said. 
Daly, of the Detroit Pistons, 

will coach the U.S. men's bas­I ketball team at the Barcelona I Olympics next year, trying to I break a U.S. international los­I ing spell that began in 1987. 
I 
Since winning the 1986 world I championships, the American 
~ 
men's team has lost at the 1987 
I 
I Pan American Games, '88 Olympics, '90 Goodwill Games
I 
and world championships, and
I 
'91 Pan Ams. 
I 
I ''I've tried to eliminate all 
thoughts of pressure," Daly said in a conference call from Barcelona, where he was con­ducting one in a series of bas­ketball clinics in Europe. "I think, quite frankly, we'll be good enough to win." 
Quite frankly, so does the rest of the world, and that's because the United States will be using NBA players for the fll'st time in '92. The selection committee will announce the names of the NBA players who have been invited on Saturday. 
"Everybody talks about the pressure on the coach, but what about the players?" Daly said. "Remember, the coach doesn't get a gold medal." 
While he has not been part of the selection process, Daly said the team would consist of per­haps only one or two college players, and the rest of the 
Class 
continued from page 13 
"ARTS AND LETTERS BUSINESS SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TONIGHT 6:30P.M., 124 HAYES HEALY. All INVITED". 
ATIENTION DEADHEADS: IF YOU HAVE EITHER OF THE LANDOVER 
MARCH 17 OR 18 SHOWS PLEASE CALL MATT AT 3573! I WILL LOVE YOU ALWAYS 
I have 2 MSU GA's Will trade lor 2 USC or 2 NAVY GA's call Kelley X4836 
NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED . 2NAVYGA'S 

CALL KRIS@ x3474111111111111111111111 
Joe, Dave, & Billy THANKS! You really made my weekend. Come over for dinner on tomorrow-give me a call. Gina 
Dear Trixie and Mr. Pete Please teach the band team how to play Bertha lor the next band show. 
It must have been the DOSES! 


The Secret of Getting Rich Amszlng Book Tells All. FrH Offer Details • Sand • Self Addrnsed Stamped Envolopa To: Book, P.O. Box 311, Mercersburg, PA 17236-A  
The Observer is now accepting applications for: Circulation Drivers Must be available Friday afternoons Contact Jre Guddem @ 283-3936 or Gil Gomez @ 239-7471  

players on the 12-man squad would come from the NBA. 
Various published reports have tentatively identified the NBA Olympians as Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson, Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley, Karl Malone, Larry Bird, David Robinson, Scottie Pippen and Chris Mullin. If an 11th NBA player is added, it could be Isiah Thomas. 
The one or two collegians probably would come from among Shaquille O'Neal, Alonzo Mourning or Christian Laettner. 
Daly said he would like to have Thomas from his own Pistons team, as well as Bill Laimbeer and Dennis Rodman, "but I don't think that'll be the case. There's no question, though, that Isiah is deserving." 
Daly took the Pistons to NBA championships in 1989 and '90 but likens this experience more to that of coaching in the All­Star Game. He said his team would be together about one week before the regional Olympic qualifying tournament in Portland next June 27-July 35, then again for a week be­fore the Olympics. 

•Any 
graduate student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply Cor an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at 4:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memori.al.on Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. and Sunday 6 to 8 p.m. 'Advanced classes are held Fridayfrom 6: to 8 p.m. and Saturday 10 to lZ. Anyone is welcome to attend. 
· 


' ·::;::· 

•For 
anyone Interested In trYing out·for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 

•Notre 
Dame Ski Team/Club will hold its first m,eeting regarding our Christmas trip and ski team tryouts this Thursday. All interested should meet in 118 Nieuwland at 8;30 p.m. Questions call Chris at 277-7089 or Greera.t 284­


5048. .:::.;.:.·,.., . ·:=·:·;=:=:-::.:...-· 
•The Observer Sports Department Will bold a mandatory meeting for all editorial staff this Thursday at 7 p.m. at The Observer office. 
•Men's and women's lnterhall football schedules can be picked up at the RecSports office. 
•NO 
Rowing Club: Anyone interested in being a novice coach should call Pete at 271­8466. Also all varsity and alumni rowers are reminded that Alumni Row is this Saturday. Mass is at 9:00 at the boathouse, with races and a cookout to follow. · 

•Women's 
off-campus football will practice today and tomorrow at 5 p.m. on Stepan Field. 

•Ice 
hockey coaches are needed. The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for students who would like to help coach young hockey players form the South Bend area. All those interested should contact Jackie McKew at :256-6839, or write the league office at P.O. Box 490, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

•NO 
Boxing Club: Practice for the Novice Tournament begins Monday, September 23. All interested students are invited to attend. Meet outside the boxing room at 4 p.m. The boxing room is located just inside gate 3 of the J .A.C.C. 

•Want 
to earn some easy money? Rec Sports needs referees for women's flag football, grad/faculty football, and soccer. Pay is $10 per game. For more information or to sign up, call Pete Skiko at 239-6100. 

•Attention 
ND/SMC sportswriters: There will be a meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Observer office. Editorial staff are not required to attend. 


WSBT AND CBS TELEVISION NETWORK INVITE YOU TO 
··l!·~!~;iiJi in CBS soap operas *!·1! I sports plays 
···~d~#I[JJ movie previews 
W-3:C•X•i j baskets 

M fJIJ #f$-J the lines from CBS comedies 
4!·NThe Price Is Right & Family Feud M;J§I:0:•1;ij your local weather 

Win 
Prizes! 
Free 
Gifts! 
--~ 
Come On Down! 
...... 
" 
"\ 
\ 
I I I I I 
/ 

.-.........~a national sweepstakes 
........ a Mazda MX-3 GS, walk-on roles in CBS shows, IBM PS/2 computers, 
and more! Sponsored by Videocassettes courtesy of maxell .. 
~ATa.T 
L.:OR~t.: 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
STEPAN FIELD SEPT. 19, 12PM·6PM • SEPT 20, 10AM·4PM 

page 17 The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1991 
Harris, Packers still at an impasse 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. (AP) ­lloldout linebacker Tim llarris has lowered his demands for a new two-year contract by about $300,000, but his offer was re­jected by the Green Bay Packers, his agent said Tuesday. 
Agent Ulice Payne said I larris, the Packers' sack leader each of his live seasons in the NFL, was not optimistic about signing with the team and was trying a second time to arrange a trade. 
Rockne 
continued from page 20 
"If we can compliment our run­ning game with a good passing attack, we should be success­ful." 
In Its season opener, Fisher 
will attempt to avenge its only 
1990 regular-season loss when 
it faces Sorin. 
PANGBORN 

Hob Thomson begins his first year as coach of the Violence after starring for the team a year ago. He will armed with a high powered offense and a solid defense which should make his coaching debut a suc­cessful one. 
Pangborn features the big play capabilities of tailback Paul Zachlin and quarterback Justin Sage. Despite the obvi­ous talent of the Violence backfield, however, the team's offense success will depend on the play of star center Kropen Wickey and an improved offen­sive line. 
Pangborn's 5-2 defense will be headed by sophomore defen­sive end Nick Treala and 
His holdout entered its 65th day Tuesday. 
"It doesn't look good," Payne said. "We're.left with a trade, or sitting out the season and challenging any right the Packers have to his rights." 
Harris, an All-Pro in 1989 when he recorded 19 1/2 sacks, met with Packers negotiators Monday, offering to sign a two­year contract that would pay him about $1 million for 1991 and an undetermined amount in 1992, Payne said. 
linebacker Scott Kamenick. The maturation of the defensive line will be key if the Violence are to make waves this season. 
Despite the absence of a sin­gle senior from the Violence roster, Zachlin is optimistic about the teams chances. "If we play consistently, we should have a good team this year," he said. 
The Violence have a bye this Sunday. 
ST. EDWARDS 

St. Edward's will seek to im­prove on its 0-3-1 record from last year by building an offense centered around junior running back Jamie Bailey. 
Bailey will be asked to carry the load as a inexperienced of­fensive line develops. St. Ed's will search for balance in its of­fense with a control passing game, so-teams will be unable to key solely on Bailey. 
Defensively, St. Ed's will need to make drastic improvement over last year. The defense was onP of the most porous in the league and will need numerous players to step forward for the team to compete. 
The offer was down substan­tially from Harris' two-year, $2.8 million demand last week, but the team rejected it Monday and made no counter offer, Payne said. 
"He explained to them how he felt," Payne said. "He's disap­pointed that his five years with the Packers doesn't even get­him a counter otTer. Their cur­rent offer wasn't acceptable before, and it's not acceptable now." 
"We have had a hard time getting practice in, but despite that we are coming along of­fensively," said coach Kevin Huie. "Defensively we have some bigger guys this year, and that should help." 
SORIN 

Matt Tutler takes over for the 
departed Kevin Kramer as the 
coach of the Otters. He inherits 
one of the most talented teams 
in the league. 
Sorin returns all but two of its defensive starters from a defensive unit which allowed only 12 points in all of its regu­lar season games. The linebacker duo of AI Kozar and Sean Ryan will provide inside support while Mike Murphy and Mike Gebecki roam the outside. 
On offense the Otters will once again turn to Ryan to led them. The talented fullback, along with quarterback Sean Kelly and tailback Chris Estes, make up a formidable backfield which will terrorize defehses throughout the division. 
"We need to stay focused, and not get to confident," said Tutler. "We can't get caught looking ahead to the playoffs." 
1991 ROCKNE LEAGUE OUTL~ 

~ 
Nickname: Vermin Coach: Marty Ogren 19110 record: 1·2·1 Playoffa: none Ollenae: 1-lormallon Dele.-: 5-2 Exira point: 1990 Rockne League MVP Tom Sullivan relums lo anchor lhe Vermin defense. 

EllWE8 Nicluwne: Green Wave Coach: Rick Ebert 19110 record: 3-2 (3-1) Playoffa: lost 1al round lo Off-Ca"1'uB Olle.-: Spread-I DelenM: Multiple Extn point: 1990 All· Rockne wide receiver Renzy Smith retums lo lead an offense lhal averaged 14.3 ppg last year. 

PANGBORN Nickname: Violence Coach: Rob Thomson 19110 record: 1-3 Playoffa: none 
otter..: mu~lple 
DelenM:5-2 EX1ra point: First-year coach Thomson looks 10 lrrprove on 1990's resuns. 

ST.EQWABQS Nickname: none Coach: Kevin Hule 111110 record: 0-3-1 Playoffa: none otter..: wishbone O.lenM:4-4 Extra point: Junior Jamie Bailey will be the key player In the Sl. Ed's wishbone attack. 

lWIIIH Nickname: Otters Coach: Matt TUller 19110 record: 4-1 (4-0) Playoffa: lost in semifinals lo Alumni otter..: power-I DelenM: 5-2 monster Extra point: Oltern return all but two players lo a defense lhal gave up only 12 points In 1990 regular season. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

(jSf{l Professiona{ 'Deve{opment Wor/&fwps 
Division  
Hu.manilifl.~; Phil Sloan, Assoc. Gary Gutting, Prof.  Prof.  &  & G Chair, PLS rad.  Dir., Philosophy  
Science  

Karamjit Rai, Prof., Biological Sciences 
Alexander Hahn, Prof., Mathematics 
Mario Borelli, Assoc. Prof., Mathematics 
Linda Hunt, Prof. Specialist, Bio. Sciences 
Social Science 

David Klein, Assoc. Prof., Sociology 
Rev. Tim Scully, Asst. Prof., Government Frank Bonello, Assoc. Prof., Economics 
Engineering 

Robert Howland, Assoc. Prof., Aero. &, Mech. Andrew Arena, Doct. Candidate, Aero. & Mech. Thomas Mueller, Chair, Aero. & Mech. 
Topic 
Small Discussion Large Class 
Research Grants Large Class Small Discussion Testing & Grading 
Testing & Grading Large Class Small Discussion 
Large Class Small Class Research Grants Date 

Sept. 25 Oct. 2 
Sept. 18 Sept. 25 Oct. 2 Oct. 9 
Sept. 18 Sept. 25 Oct. 2 
Sept. 18 Sept. 25 Oct. 2 

f4.{[ tlie Wor~fwps wil{ 6e lieU at 7 PM. 
Room 
105 O'Shag 
105 O'Shag 
Dooley Room 184 Nieuwland 184 Nieuwland 184 Nieuwland 
105A O'Shag 
105A O'Shag 
105A O'Shag 
356 Fitzpatrick 356 Fitzpatrick 356 Fitzpatrick 
.... 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, Spetember 18, 1991 

Smith caught the ball well, and lpaliiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iii~iiiiiii!BBII~~~~~~~~~~~-~~ 
Syracuse investigation expanding its scope 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­Syracuse University's investigation into alleged wrongdoing in its basketball program has expanded beyond its original scope, accounting for a delay in the release of findings, a school spokesman said Tuesday. 
The Syracuse Post-Standard reported Tuesday that some former players, including Derrick Coleman and Billy Owens, have refused to answer questions, hampering university lawyers looking into possible NCAA violations. 
Syracuse spokesman Robert Hill refused to confirm or deny that some former players were not cooperating. He would only say that the investigation is continuing and that the lawyers are expected to report by late October or early November. 
Holtz 

continued from page 20 
to see some walk-ons on the kickoff return team. I love walk-ons, and I miss having a lot of walk-ons. I think that they're the best thing for a football team. Rick Lozano, Chet Hollister, Robert Hughes and John Farren are all great walk-ons." 
Holtz also gave his team a passing grade for its test at Michigan Stadium. 
"For being 17 points down on the road, I thought that we did a good job of coming back," stated Holtz. "Rick Mirer really came to the forefront as quar­terback. He kept our offense in the game all by himself. Tony 
he had some outstanding catches. Our inability to run the
football hurt our cause as much 
as anything.
"Some people played very, very well. Demetrius DuBose played an outstanding football game, and so did Devon McDonald. I'm really pleased with the performances of Eric Jones and Bryant Young. There wasn't anybody that played re­ally bad. We made a lot of progress in that game, and we found out some things about this team that we did not know before." 
Notre Dame is still licking its wounds from its donnybrook 
Soccer 

continued from page 20 
playing time this season. Despite their inexperience, however, the freshmen have proven their ability to perform on the college level and they will continue to improve as the season progresses. 
With three games in the next five days, though, the freshmen will have to mature quickly if the Irish hope to be successful against some of the nation's top teams. 
Michigan State will be in town Friday night to continue the home stand, before 1990 NCAA finalist Evansville visits Alumni Field Sunday afternoon. 
Perennial powerhouse Indiana will round out the home stand next Thursday night at South Bend's School Field. 
"When you begin an investigation that starts with 43 allegations and you're exercising diligence, what you find is when you interview people it raises more issues," Hill said. "To some extent, there's a lot of exponential growth." 
The newspaper, which ex­posed the allegations in a series of stories last December, also quoted sources who said former player Erich Santifer refused to cooperate with in­vestigators. 
The investigators have also been unable to reach former player Rodney Walker, who told the Post-Standard that Syracuse coaches arranged to have one of his grades changed to make him eligible to play in a key Big East Conference game, the sources said. 
with the Wolverines. 
Justin Hall is in the infrrmary with a minor injury, and is ex­pected to be lost from practice for one to two days. In the event that Hall is not healthy by Saturday, Todd Norman will take his place. 
Mirer who has been classified as "bruised up" and did not practice Monday, is nonetheless predicted to start against Michigan State. Derek Brown, however, has been diagnosed with turf toe, apparently the result of a tumbling catch he made at Michigan. BroV!_n should return to practice by Thursday. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRCI;RAM,. 

Happy belated 21st birthday M tt J h (MOJO)
a 0 ns0n . 
Did you know that 90% of all baclc rubs lead to a sexual experience in Kokomo? We Love You-The iris from PE 
Paterno blames fumbles for loss 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP)­Those blitzing Southern Cal linebackers that blew past the Penn State offensive line weren't the main culprits in the Nittany Lions' 21-10 loss to the Trojans, coach Joe Paterno said Tuesday. 
Paterno laid the blame on his own team, which suffered from a serious case of fumble-itis for the third week in a row. 
"I don't think you can let it take care of itself," Paterno said. His team dropped the ball nine times, losing it twice. The Lions have fumbled 16 times this season. 
"You have to lay the law down: If you fumble, you don't play. Production will be better when you play somebody who can hang onto the ball," Paterno said. 
lCOULDN'r BE SECRETARY, l'M JUST N01 THE TYPE AND 
ICAWTTYPE· 

The Lions (2-1) play Brigham Young on Saturday in Beaver Stadium and Paierno said his team also will have to string together first downs to maintain good field position. 
In addition to the fumbles, penalties added to the Lions' woes against Southern Cal, in­cluding calls for personal fouls. 
"It was a lack of poise," Paterno said. 
One call, however, was ques­tionable, Paterno said. In the first quarter, cornerback Derek Bochna returned a shove against a Southern Cal receiver and was penalized for a per­sonal foul. USC later scored. 
"I think we got a bad call. The one on Bochna was a bad call," Paterno said. 
Tuesday afternoon, Bochna admitted returning a shove. 
"Yeah. I did it, but it looked harder than it was," Bochna said. Bochna protested to the referee that he was shoved first. 
"I said, 'Aren't you going to call that? That was interfer­ence.' That's all I said." 
Paterno on Tuesday said he was looking for more consis­tency on offense, especially after the Trojans rattled the Lions' game plan Saturday. Tailback Richie Anderson, who splits time with Gerry Collins, said the team could be more consistent if one back was given the job full time. 
"That could be a possibility. I think it would help the running game, but that's a decision to be left up to Joe," Anderson said. Previous players have fallen into bad graces with Paterno for complaining about playing time. 

OK SOI'V£tiADSORTOfAN TODD SOMETiiiNGABOUTIT. 
V.P?THE'tWINDUPDOlNG UND15TJNGUISHED ACADEt.\1( BUT ClASS PRESIDENT? TOO 
MalT Of ntE REAL WORK. CAREER. IT'S NOT TOO lATE MUCH RfSPONSIBlLITY. 
-
ASPIRES To PUBLIC OffiCE WITH THE HllP OF kinko's 
AP Photo 
Penn State will attempt to solve its "fumble-itis" problem against Brigham Young this Saturday. The Nittany Lions fumbled nine times in their 21-10 loss to Southern Cal last weekend. 
~----------------------...., 
The Observer is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: Asst Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Features Photo Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor ~one page page personal stateme1~t shoul~ be submitted to Andrew Me Closkey at The Observer by Thursday, Sept 19, at 5pm• For further information contact Andrew McCloskey at 239-7471 
Rinko'S·THf.COPY CENTER· GOODCLE.ANCOPIES,CAMPAIGNFLYERS,ETC.· 181~7 SfATE RD.23 (l/9)27/-039~ 


.... 
'· Wednesday, September 18,1991 The Observer page 19 
TtEfARSIJE GARY LARSON SPB.UHKER JAY HOSLER CALVlf AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

I CI\NT BELI~E t<\'( 1'<\0M SIGNED ME IJP FOR 
S't-1\t<\M\NG ~S 
ThE ONL'{ TI-1\t-.lG TI!r>.f CWJ) P::>$\Bl'i Mt«£. ~\5 WC!N. W().}LD BE II= 1\-\E Q...t>..% W~ ... 
J 

CROSSWORD LECTURES 
ACROSS 31 Hanging 57 Weeping 
Wednesday ornament woman of myth 
1 Formal 
33 Food fish 61 Heavy hit 12:15 p.m. "Women of the Breaking," Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro, 
neckwear 
34 British 62Cioth of Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
6 Kenya's Daniel 
"bye-bye" Calcutta 12:30 p.m. Lecture: "A Complex Web: State-Agricultural
-Moi 
35 Two times 65 Boatswain, for Bourl!eoisie Relations in Revolutionarv Nicara~a." Rose Spaldinsz. 
10 Pop. 
39 Hold firmly shortinvestments 

12:30 p.m. Lecture: "A Complex Web: State-Agricultural
41 "Rock-a-bye· 66 British gun14 Andean animal 
Bourgeoisie Relations in Revolutionary Nicaragua," Rose Spalding. 
bab~.on the 67 Screen star 
15 Dry; parched Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Gene or Grace 
11 Long, loose 43 Oktoberfest 4:20p.m. Lecture: "Laser Cooling of Atoms Using Standing Waves," 
68 Some flock 
garment item members Randall Huler, Rice University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. 17 Hot-weather 44 Abel or Wiesel 8 p.m. How ND students have helped grass-roots development
69Work forheadgear 

46 Raison d'-projects in Africa and S. America through the Wednesday Lunch
70 Type of bar 19 Thought 
47Collegian Fast. Center for Social Concerns. 20 Diminished 
49 Completed 21 Turn right so Commence DOWN 
CAMPUS 
22 Retail 
52 Money· 1 Matterhorn is 23 British welfare exchange item one Wednesday \ 
25 Western 54 Prefix for plane 2Chopped 
mountain lake or space cabbage 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Resume collection day. The May Company3 Miracle site 
27 Error 55 Pale department stores. Dooley Room, 1st floor, LaFortune. Sponsored
4 Arabian gulf 
by Career and Placement Services. 
5 Domesticated 
6:30 p.m. Arts and Letters Business society organizational
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Wood for skis 
meeting. All Arts and Letters students invited. Sponsored by
7 Active chemical 
Career and Placement Services. 
substance 
7 p.m. "Seeking Research Grants," Dr. Karamjit Rai, ND professor
a Comedian 28 Fontanne's 45 He swam the 56 Square column 
of biological sciences. GSU professional development workshops. 
Johnson partner Hellespont for 58 "On thy cold 
7 p.m. " Testing and Grading," Professor David Klein, ND professor
9 Spanish coin love gray stones, 
29 "Picnic" 

10 Gaelic fabric for 48 Ill-advised --f" of sociology. GSU professional development workshops. 
playwright 

suits or coats 50 Under 59 Invoice 7 p.m.· "Teaching the Large Class," Dr. Robert Howland, ND
30 Creations for 

mesde· 51 Notched, as a 60 Actress Raines professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. GSUn~~~-11 Cowboys'
-=+~~ jamboree moiselles leaf &3 Roadside professional development workshops. 
53 Sows' sounds refuge
--~~~~ ~.;,.+;+:...fi!IIIIIF.+:-+=-t-=i 12 White poplar 32 TV's "The­
54 French secular 64 Marlowe
~ ~=+:=---=+--F--t:-Ei 13 Aquatic Game" MENU
cleric contemporary
mammal 3&"Leave-­88:7:1''!!" liiit:t=-f"!!"'r=t-=t.lil ~f7.:+::.+.:::-l 18 Takes as one's Beaver" ----------Notre Dame Saint Mary's own 37 Foot ailment Answers to any three clues in this Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich Chicken Fried Steak 24 Sprang 38 Foil's kin puzzle are available by touch-tone Tunafish Casserole Spaghetti 21 Poker payment 40 Against phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Shepherds Pie Swedish Meatballs 27 Fr. holy women 42 Eye part minute). Vegetable Eggrolls Deli Bar 

THURSDAY 

''A LANDMARK 
FRIDAY &
PSYCHOLOGICAL 
SATURDAY
THRILLER!' 
-\'rrnon Scolt ll'l 


8 & 10:30 P.M. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION $2 

Sports 
page 20 
Men's soccer opens homestand 
Irish look to break into win column vs. Central Michigan 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (0-2) opens a four-game homestand with a 
7:30 p.m. matchup against Central Michigan tonight at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Chippewas-who return nine of 11 starters from last year's Mid-America Conference championship team-proved their offensive abilities in their opening two games, a 7-0 vic­
-tory over Alma and a 5-0 win against Sienna Heights. Two consecutive losses to East 
·Stroudsburg and Oneonta State, however, have evened their record at 2-2. 
In order to defeat the Chippewas, the Irish defense will have to shut down junior forward Craig Bailey, who has collected five goals already this season. Bailey finished the 1990 campaign ranked 11th in the nation in scoring with 16 goals and 11 assists. 
While the defensive perfor­mance has been adequate, the Irish hope for better things of­fensively against Central Michigan. 
"Our emphasis has been to­tally on offense this week." said junior forward Kevin Pen­dergast. "We need to be able to convert on our opportunities, so we've been working a lot on finishing." 
Losing the first two games without scoring a goal would discourage most coaches, but the play of the Notre Dame men's soccer team has given coach Mike Berticelli nothing but encouragement. 
Despite being held scoreless in the opening two games, the 


Senior Tony Sm~h's performance against Michigan earned him praise from Lou Holtz at his weekly press conference. Smith caught five passes for a career-high 121 yards. 
Irish have blasted 22 shots on goal, keeping opposing de­fenses on the ropes. Senior captain Kenyon Meyer has led the way with seven shots this season, followed by Pendergast with four. 
"We had a lot of opportunities against Loyola, so I think it's just a matter of time," said Pendergast, who may sit out tonight's contest with a bruised ankle. "Look for us to come out and score about four or five goals tonight." 
Defensively, the Irish have also been impressive this sea­son. Freshman goalkeeper Bert Bader has adjusted quickly to college level competition, turn­ing back 14 shots in the open­ing two games. 
Bader is just one of 10 rook­ies who have seen considerable 
see SOCCER I page 18 

Holtz struggles with loss of Bumpas, Miller 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 

As Lou Holtz has so often maintained, adversity is a part . of life. 
And as Notre Dame found out 
in Ann Arbor last weekend, ad­
versity isn't always pretty. 
The Irish, however, learned 
two painful lessons in life 
Monday night when defensive 
line coach Dick Bumpas fell ill 
with a virus of the cerebellum 
and freshman superstar-to-be 
Mike Miller quit school. 
In Bumpas' absence, Holtz 
will personally oversee the de­
velopment of the improving 
Notre Dame defense. 
"The loss of our defensive line 
coach is going to make it diffi­
cult for us to develop the rap­
port that we wish to develop on 
defense," noted Holtz. "Monday 
was more like the way I like to 
be on the practice field. I'm a 
hands-on kind of coach. I'm 
going to spend more time with 

Men's interhall football gears up for '91 
Defending Rockne champ Sarin faces stiff competition 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first in a three-part series preview­ing the 1991 men's interhall football season. 
Men's interhall football kicks off play this Sunday as 15 teams compete for a spot in the championship game played in Notre Dame Stadium in late October. 
The league consists of three divisions, and teams are placed in each division according to dorm size. The Rockne Division contains the five smallest dorms, while the medium-sized dorms play in the Leahy Division. The four largest dorms and the Off-Campus team play in the Parseghian Division. 
The Rockne Division may be the home of the smallest dorms, but by no means is it small on talent. Sorin skated through the regular season un­beaten last year, but will have difficulty repeating that feat in 1991, as the remaining four teams set their sights on a divi­
,.. 
sion crown. A Rockne Division team-by­team outlook: 

CARROLL 
There is an air of confidence which surrounds this year's Carroll squad, and for good reason. The Vermin enter the season with a number of re­turning players who will lead a dedicated team. 
Linebacker Tom Sullivan is the heart and soul of a stingy Carroll defense. Sullivan re­turns for his final year after earning Rockne League MVP honors last year. Joining Sullivan on the Vermin defense is end Tom Elmer, who should provide solid outside support to compliment Sullivan's tough in­terior defense. 
Junior quarterback Jack Hay and running back Mike Bell will be the focal points of the of­fense. They will work behind a talented group of lineman led by Elmer and guard Hastings Seigfried. 
Another plus for the Vermin could be coach Marty Urgen, who returns for his" second sea­son. 
"It's a big advantage having played under the same coach last year," said Elmer. "I think just that fact alone alone will help us." 
Carroll opens its season against St. Edward's on Sunday. 
FISHER 
The Green Wave surprised many last year by finishing 3-2 and earning a playoff berth. This year, they will take no one by surprise with a number of talented players on both sides of the ball. 
Quarterback Rick Ebert and tailback Curtis Baker make up a star-studded backfield which will work behind a mammoth offensive line. Ebert's main target will be 1990 All-Rockne performer Renzy Smith, who gives Fisher an explosive deep threat. 
Teams will be wary to run in­side on Fisher this year, as linebackers Gene Richards and Joe Mattio are imposing fig­ures. They are the nucleus of a defensive unit which appears solid in all areas. 
"We have had some good practices, and appear ready for the games to start," said Ebert. 
see ROCKNE I page 17 

Wednesday, September 18, 1991 

the defense because defense is my thing. It's the only thing I've ever coached, and I do expect us to be a very good defensive football team." 
Bumpas was reportedly sick Monday night and again Tuesday morning, and is ex­pected to remain hospitalized for between one to ten days. 
Where Miller was concerned, however, Holtz expressed only sympathy and bewilderment. 
"Notre Dame is very great school," admitted Holtz, "but it is also a difficult school. It's not all glamour, There are a lot of lonely hours and hard work, not just football. I asked him if he had any plans for the future, and he said that he did not. He just made the decision that he was going to leave Notre Dame. Everybody has to do what is right and proper for them. But happiness isn't the goal of life. Your goal has to be a feeling of satisfaction inside yourself. 
"Michael Miller is a fine young man, an excellent ath­lete, and he has a good future in football. I think he had an explosiveness that could have given us some big plays, but we don't have him. If we don't have a gamebreaker, so be it. Let's hit the recruiting trail. You may see a number of people on kickoff returns that you've never seen befonl. There may be some guys that have never dreamed that they·would be doing that job." 
In assessing Milller's impact on the return game, Holtz openly declared tlb.at the possi­bility of playing walk-ons had not been ruled out. 
"I do expect us to be a good football team in the near fu­ture," said Holtz, "because we've won a lot of games at Notre Dame without a game­breaker. I have tremendous re­spect for walk-ons. You're going 
see HOLTZ! page 18 
A clean sweep 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team swept away Concordia College 15-9, 15-9, 15-91ast night in River Forest, Ill. 





