IU2·1992 
SESQUICENTENNIAL 
--~····_­
....~ 
' • 
:~-· 
. ., .~.~+: 
• 
Pretty as a oicture 
Ann Mercorella, a ~aint Mary's sophomore from Holy Cross Hall, takes one last peak at Haggar Hall at Sa1nt Mary~ campus "''"·"r"' she goes home to Holland, Michigan tor break. Many sttJdents will return from break early to watch the lnsh battle Saturd 
..--------------_,...--------------------~--­
~~..~&~t 
-

·86·
---tit--­

er 
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

.. t=l f,6
4 t:_, ... ­
Labor and land have 
:.., 


-~same interest, " · speaker says 
r
' 
~.--~--~~ 


The Observ~1iSean Farnan 
. . , 
By NICOLE MCGRATH News Writer 
Labor and the environment have mutual goals, according to environmentalist Barry Commoner. 
Since 1970, over a trillion dollars have been spent on environmental decisions and needs, said Commoner. But in the last 15 years, levels of air pollutants have been reduced only 14%, excluding smog emissions, he said. 
The EPA can only put laws into effect when a pollutant is discovered in the environment. But by that time, it is nearly impossible to totally wipe out the problem, explained Commoner. 
The solution is to prevent pollutants from entering the environment, he said. 
"Environmental pollutants originate at the point of production," saiq Commoner. For instance, after World War II, car companies began to create larger cars to realize a maximum profit, he said, but these cars have emitted carbon monoxide emmissions which have led to the problem of smog. 
Corporations must be responsible, not only to owners, but to the whole society, Commoner said, explaining that he drew this idea out of the book "The Modern Corporation and Private Property." 
This concept is vital to how companies should respond to the American public, he said. An ex­would be replacing the gasoline-fueled car an electric car, he said, but consumer demand is necessary so that car companies offer electric 
see LABOR/page 4 


exas killer may have hated women, authorities say 
KILLEEN, Texas (AP) -The gunman who massacred 22 people in a 10-minute barrage of semiautomatic gunfire may have been triggered by a fury against women, authorities said Thursday. 
And as he exchanged shots with the policemen who were closing in on him, the gunman saved one final bullet for him­self. 
Much remained a mystery about what caused George Hennard, one day after his 35th birthday, to drive his pickup truck through a plate-glass window at Luby's Cafeteria, jump out and methodically exe­cute cowering victims with a pair of pistols. 
It ended in his suicide, and was the worst mass shooting in 
U.S. history. 
Of 23 people wounded, at least 11 remained hospitalized Thursday, two in critical condi­tion. 
Fourteen of the dead were women, and residents of this central Texas town suggested Hennard was angry at women, citing a letter he had written last summer referring to "treacherous female vipers" and his comments during the rampage. 
Police said they are investi­gating his attitude toward women. 
Among the dead at Luby's were school administrators and educators, a veterinarian, a ca­reer military officer, a woman who was treating her daughter and granddaughter to lunch and a woman from Missouri in town for a wedding. 
Hennard's blue Ford pickup truck was removed before dawn, but wind ruffled through 
'the window it shattered. Out­side, onlookers milled about. 
Survivors told of hiding in the restaurant freezer or jumping through broken windows. One employee spent the night in a cpmmercial dishwasher at the cafeteria. 
"He was just scared and was going to stay there," Giacomozzi said. The unidentified man was unhurt. 
Another survivor, Luby's em­ployee Vicki Large, said the tragedy has hit home. "I just see him coming through the window and shooting every­where and it's like he's after me or something," she said Thurs­day. 
Giacomozzi said Hennard 
used two 9mm semiautomatic pistols, with three ammunition clips for each. One, a Ruger P89, carried 15 rounds in each clip. Another, a Glock 17, had 17 rounds. 
Police are unsure how many shots were fired, Giacomozzi said. But he added, "The gun was empty on the last round." 
He said the guns were bought in February and March, in Henderson, Nev., where Hen­nard's mother lives, and may have been the only two guns Hennard owned. Neighbors in Henderson said Hennard had lived there as late as this sum­mer. 
Gun control advocates seized on the massacre to try and sway a crucial vote in Washing­ton, where the House was de­bating a crime bill. But the por­tion of the bill that would have restricted the high-capacity ammunition clips used in the guns was defeated. 
"The tragedy yesterday added some momentum in our direc­tion, but at this point I don't think it is enough," said Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., chief supporter of the bill. Rep. Chet Edwards, a Democrat whose district includes Killeen, dropped his long standing op­position to the weapons ban. 
A day after Hennard's body was found in the restroom, little was known about him. The handsome, surgeon's son had lived in Belton, about 15 miles away, and left behind an angry letter, written in June to a neighbor's two daughters. 
Northwesterners return home after wildfires kill five 
SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) ­Evacuees began returning to their burned-out homes as gusting wind eased Thursday, helping firefighters battle wild­rrres that have destroyed more than 100 homes and killed five people across four states. 
"Before the frre was letting us fight it on its terms, but now the tide has changed a little bit," 
U.S. Forest Service spokesman Kevin Kennedy said in Oregon. "This is a real big day for us." 
Fires across parts of Wash­ington, Idaho, Montana and Oregon scorched hundreds of thousands of acres on grass, brush and timber. Most were ignited Wednesday by power lines downed in a fierce wind storm that gusted to more than 60 mph and kicked up heavy dust. 
Killed were an eastern Wash­ington woman trying to flee her home, two people crushed by heavy equipment in Idaho and Montana and the pilot and co­pilot aboard a California-based air tanker that crashed en route to flrefighting duty in Montana. The wreckage was found Thursday. 
In addition, four people were missing after reporting flres in northern Spokane County. 
National Guard units were activated in Washington, Idaho and Oregon. And authorities sought additional firefighters from as far away as Southern California and Arizona. 
"There's a real, almost crisis situation with a shortage of crews and trying to get them out to the fires," said Dave Turner of the Montana De­partment of State Lands. 
About 2,000 firefighters bat­tled 25 major fires that have burned over about 38,000 acres around Spokane, Washington's second-largest city, said Ron King, of the state Department of Natural Resources. 
Easing wind helped crews gain the upper hand on a few small blazes in eastern Wash­ington and northern Idaho, but most of the large fires raged out of control. 
Another department spokesman, Rob Harper, called it the worst series of fires in Washington in 50 years. 
One of the most destructive fires, a 5,000-acre blaze at Chattaroy Hills north of Spokane, destroyed or damaged 65 homes and damaged 40 other structures, said Lloyd Handlos, another department spokesman. 
Diana Allen was consoled by neighbors as she gazed at the remains of her six-bedroom house in the Ponderosa subdivi­sion southeast of Spokane, where at least 18 homes were destroyed. All that was left was the chimney and foundation. Allen took things in stririP 

AP!Ed De Gasero 



page 2 Friday, October 18, 1991
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Living with a. nighttime terror 
My roommate, I have------­found, has an odd habit that is very hazardous to her health and as well as my sanity. (I won't use her real name in order to protect her reputation. . How about something -. · ..........._ right off the top of my 4IJflfJ( · · ­head...oh I don't know... Jennifer Marten 
something like Satan.) . Sports Copy Editor
Satan has a nasty habit ....=:::;.~=...;::~r...::.:~:­of walking and talking in her sleep. Let me give you a few examples of her bizarre behavior at night. 
Last year, I was returning from the study lounge in my dorm around 2 am. I opened the door without making a sound and took one step into my room. 
"Who's there?" yelled Satan from the top bunk. I didn't answer hoping she would just fall back to sleep...Who's there?" she yelled again angrily. When I didn't answer the second time, Satan clapped her hands loudly to activate our ..Clapper" which turned on the lights. As the lights flashed on, Satan shot up in bed and looked at me with the most evil eyes I had ever seen on a real person. 
My heart was pounding and my stomach was in my throat. As a freshmen, I had never encountered anything like this before and I was seriously scared for my life. Satan then started waving her arms wildly in the air and pointing to the ceiling. 
"There are ghosts all around," screamed Satan. "Can't you see them, they're right here. I just can't catch them." Freaking out would be a good way to describe what I was doing while this was happening. Normally, Satan is one of the most innocent people vou would ever meet. She has a smile that never quits and I've only seen her in a bad mood twice. I have never heard her say anything negative about anyone or anything including dining hall food. 
I was more prepared the second time she went psycho in her sleep. A few weeks ago, I was returning from a late night around 2 am and I stopped in my room to drop off some papers before heading to the bathroom. When I returned, Satan was standing in the doorway squinting. I told her nicely to go back to bed. 
"But the clock said 12 and it's not 12 and I had to rmd out what time it was," said Satan. I peeked over her shoulder at the two clocks in our room; both said 2:12. Clue number one that something was not right. 
"Go back to bed," I said. "But it's not 12," she said annoyed at my apparent stupidity. At that point, I lost it. 
..You're possessed," I cried. "Stay away." Satan came after me laughing eerily and still insisting that the clock was wrong. Finally, I 
• 
think my screaming woke her and brought her back to reality. 
You might think this is a gross exaggeration, but I swear every word is the truth. Nonetheless, her night time antics are very hazardous. One of these nights, I am going to hurt her. Had a Louisville Slugger been handy, Satan might not have made it to her 20th birthday. Living with a sleepwalker is a challenge, but it can also make for some humorous stories. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

Production Graphics Cheryl Moser Brendan Regan Kristin Lynch 
Etc. Lab Tech Shonda Wilson John Rock Cristina Ortiz Jeannie Smith 
Sports Illustrations Rene Ferran Dave Devine News Sandy Wiegand Ann Marie Hartman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacat1on periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
French freight train crash kills 11 
•PARIS -A passenger train on an overnight trip from the Riviera collided with a freight train this morning at a station, killing at least 11 people and seriously injuring about 50, police and rescue officials said. About 40 more passengers suffered minor injuries, police said. The passenger train was knocked off the tracks by the force of the collision at 6:30 a.m. at the station in Melun, 30 miles southeast of Paris. It was en route to Paris from Nice and included four sleeper cars and four cars carrying motor vehicles. Officials of the national railroad 
said the freight train may have passed through a red signal light instructing it to stop. More than 30 ambulances were dispatched to the scene, as well as emergency helicopters. 
NATIONAL 
Mellencamp hospitalized in Seattle 
•sEATTLE -Singer John Mellencamp became dizzy performing on a radio show Thursday and was taken to a hospital. A spokeswoman for radio station KXRX, said Mellencamp became ill while singing the song "Rain on the Scarecrow" during a live broadcast. About 20 people were in the room with Mellencamp when he turned white, stopped singing and said he felt dizzy, Rosien­Smutek said. Mellencamp, 40, was admitted to Swedish Hospital, where Dr. John Olsen said he'd remain overnight. Olsen blamed the illness on exhaustion and poor eating habits.Mellencamp was listed in satisfactory condition. Mellencamp was known during his early recording years as John Cougar, and then John Cougar Mellencamp. His hit singles include "Hurt So Good." 
OF INTEREST 
• Today Is the deadline for sophomores to apply for Junior Parents' Weekend Sophomore Committee Chairperson. Applications are available in the Student Activities Office. Call Katy at 283-2537 for more information. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES 
NYS;~gEX ~ _96
213.45 MILLION ~ 2.0 
"'1Jt 21.92 
$1.20 to$358.50/oz. 1.5( to $4.082/ oz. 

... 
FORECAST: 
Today, variably 
cloudy and brisk 
with highs in the 
60s and lows dip­ping into the 30s. Sunny and cooler Saturday. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  84  64  
Atlanta  71  46  
Berlin  55  46  
Boston  59  55  
Chicago  49  28  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  82  50  
Denver  79  41  
Detroh  52  28  
Honolulu  84  75  
Houston  86  50  
Indianapolis  56  26  
London  57  55  
Los Angeles  81  62  
Madrid  66  46  
Miani Beach  77  72  
New Orleans  79  58  
New York  64  52  
Paris  60  52  
Philade~hia  67  52  
Rome  68  61  
St. Louis  57  39  
San Francisco  72  55  
Seanle  77  53  
South Bend  60  3 6  
Tokyo  70  59  
Washington, D.C  76  50  


Game over for proposed lottery 
•MINNEAPOLIS -State Lottery officials Thursday abandoned a pilot project that would have let Min­nesotans be the first in the nation to bet at home using Nintendo video games. Many state legislators had op­posed the project, saying it would entice children to gamble. Lottery Director George Andersen defended the plan, but conceded that "legitimate issues raised by legislative policy makers call for extensive discussion." The six-month test would have let 10,000 residents play at home starting next summer. Under the plan, players would choose numbers using the control dec.k from a Nintendo game and hook up via a modem to the lottery's computer system. To participate in the game players would have to deposit up to $200 in advance in en account with the lottery. Any winnings would be credited to the account. 
Court overrides blockade of waste 
•FORT 
HALL, Idaho -A judge allowed a shipment of high-level nuclear waste from Colorado to go through an Indian reservation to a federal laboratory after tribal police blocked the truck and ticketed the driver. U.S. District Judge Edward Lodge in Boise ruled in a telephone hearing Wednesday that Public Service Company of Colorado could take the waste through the Fort Hall Indian Reservation to the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory. "This is no victory," said Public Service spokesman Mark Severts. "It is a small step in an ongoing difficult situation. Public Service is caught between the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes and the Department of Energy." The shipment was the third this month from the decommissioned Fort St. Vrain nuclear plant at Plattville, Colo. 

• 
Mass schedule for the USC Football weekend Oct. 26 and 27, is as follows: Saturday Vigil Masses will be held in Sacred Heart Church and the Crypt at 5 p.m. Sunday Masses will be at 8 and 11:45 a.m. in Sacred Heart, and at 6, 7, 8, 9:30 and 11 a.m. in the Crypt. 

• 
Masses In the Log Chapel will be held at 8:30 a.m. every morning Monday through Friday, starting Oct. 28. 


ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
I 

• 
In 1867: The United States took formal possession of Alaska from Russia. 

• 
In 1873: Representatives of Columbia, Princeton, Rutgers and Yale Universities drew up the first rules for intercollegiate football. 

• 
ln1898: The American flag was raised in Puerto Rico shortly before Spain formally relinquished control of the island to the United States. 

• 
In 1944: Soviet troops invaded Czechoslovakia during World War II. 

• 
In 1989: After 18 years in power, Erich Honecker was ousted as leader of East Germany by the Central Committee 



,..-.-------------------------------~ --~--­
I Itt:: UU~t::rVt:H

Friday, October 18, 1991 page 3 



Gunner's mate cleared of sabotage charges; Navy apologizes 

CLEVELAND (AP) -The family of a Navy gunner's mate once blamed in the explosion that killed 4 7 sailors aboard the USS Iowa expressed relief Thursday that the Navy had fi­nally apologized for accusing him of sabotage. 
"They gave us the words I 
EVENINGS: 5:31 7:31 8:31 SAT. &. SUN.: 1:30 3:30 5:31 7:30 8:31 

BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMP~ ASI( FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 
wanted to hear. They exoner­ated my son. They said they were sorry that they accused him," said Evelyn Hartwig, whose son, Clayton, was among those killed in the 1989 explo­sion. 
Adm. Douglas Katz, who had 

LIAMS 
EVENINGS: 5:01 8:00 SAT. &. SUN.: 2:ot 5:00 8:00 EVENINGs: 4:45 7:15 9:45 
SAT. &.SUN.: 1:30 4:45 7:15 9:45 EVENINGs: 4:30 7:00 9:30 SAT. &.SUN.: 1:45 4:30 7:M 8:30 

yo
u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a fmancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER-PERFECT. 
TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aa.a. from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional financialstre115th, superior investment performance, and low expenses. With its guaranteed rate of retwn and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is one ofless than ten companies, out of 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it:'" 
2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. 
CREF. FOUR MORE LEITERS 
EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversi­fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
,-----------­
1 SEND NOW FORA FREE RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, induding a SptYI~d Rq•~Jrl on TIAA investments. Mail th•s coupon to: TIAA-CREF. Dept. QC. 730 Third Avenue, New York. NY 10017. Or call I 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016. 

1\',,,,,. (Please.· Jlrint) 


ltt.•lt!Jtlt1•n (Full name) 
TI.·LI CRf."F /',rll;-,,,,, 0 );._, 0 N,, 

CN 

first told the family that family that had to undergo straight in the eye and tell them Hartwig was suspected of this," Katz said. "To come back a lot of things have happened causing the blast returned to again reminded me of the entire since then.... We sincerely re­their middle-class home to de­thing the first time, and that gret the whole affair, the bur­liver the apology in person to was the hardest thing I'd ever den of the whole two years. It Hartwig's parents and his sister. done, and I still feel that way, was hard on them and hard on An American flag was posted on and we've had a war since. us. We regret the fact we impli­a pillar on the front porch. cated their son in the proce­
"It's hard to come back to a "I was able to look them dure." 





Nuclear physics experts to visit in first U.S. meeting in 12 years 
Spectal to The Observer 
International experts in a specialized field of nuclear physics will be at Notre Dame for a workshop Oct. 21-23. 
The "Giant Resonances and Related Phenomena" workshop is the first meeting of this na­ture in the United States in more than 12 years. 
In this context, the term "resonances" refers to oscilla­tions within the nucleus of an atom, according to meeting or­ganizer Umesh Garg, associate professor of physics. 
When most of the particles that make up the nucleus oscil­late together, this motion is called "giant resonances." 
Garg likens the motion to that of water droplets sizzling in a hot pan. By studying these oscillations scientists can learn more about the way the nucleus is put together, he said. 
Research in the giant reso­nances field is no more than 40 years old, but is an active and vibrant area of study, he said. 
More than 80 scientists are expected to attend the Notre Dame workshop, and roughly half are from overseas, Garg said, and include representa­tives from the U.S.S.R., Japan, India, Brazil, and most coun­tries in Western Europe. 
Garg leads a Notre Dame 

team in an active program of 
research in giant resonances. 
Experiments are carried out at 
the National Superconducting 
Cyclotron Laboratory in East 
Lansing, Mich.; the Texas A & M 
University Cyclotron; and the 
Indiana University Cyclotron 
facility. 
Notre Dame has had a long 

and distinguished tradition of 
research and scholarship in the 
field of nuclear physics, with 
one of the very few accelerator­
based research facilities in use 
since 1936. • 
Over the years more than 100 

Ph.D.~ have been granted 
based on research done in the 
nuclear physics laboratory. 
Palestinians to engage in peace talks 
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP) -PLO 

leaders on Thursday approved 
participation by seven 
Palestinians from the occupied 
West Bank and Gaza in planned 
Mideast peace talks as part of a 
delegation with Jordan, 
Palestinian sources said. 
The issue of Palestinian 

participation had been one of 
the major unanswered 
questions as Secretary of States 
James Baker and other 
diplomats sought agreement on 
an Oct. 29 opening date for the 
first-ever direct negotiations 
between Israel and its Arab 
neighbors. 
Baker met Thursday in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, Defense Minister Moshe Arens and Foreign Minister David Levy. 
Palestinian activist Faisal Husseini, in Jerusalem, said after a meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Boris Pankin that he expected invitations would be issued Friday to the peace conference. 
The Palestinian sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the decision was made at a closed-door session of the Palestine Liberation Organization's 90­member Central Council. 
A senior member of the council, Vasser Abed Rabbo, later confirmed in an interview with Radio France International that the council had approved the Palestinian portion of a joint delegation. 
He did not identify the delegates. But the PLO sources provided a conditional list. 
I lit: VUt>t:l Vt:l

page 4 Friday, October 18, 1991 

Inflation 
•


grow1ng, govt. says 
WASHINGTON (AP) Consumer prices, buffeted by higher costs for energy, food and housing, jumped 0.4 percent last month in the biggest inflation spurt since January, the government said Thursday. 
In other bad economic news, industrial production rose a lackluster 0.1 percent in September while the country's merchandise trade deficit widened dramatically as overseas demand for American products took a nosedive. 
Economists blamed the worse-than-expected inflation number for the most part on temporary factors, but they worried that the other reports depicted a listless economic recovery losing what little momentum it had. 
Manufacturing and export sales had been among the few bright spots as the economy has struggled to break free of the 1990-91 recession. 

Labor 
continued from page 1 
cars. If the government set an example by purchasing 100,000 cars, many solutions would be set in motion, he said. 
The environment would then be exposed to less smog emissions, he said, and the businesses would still realize a maximum profit. By specifiying the nature of the product, one can then concentrate on an alternate means of gaining the most profit while guarding the environment. 
Suggestions from Commoner range from increasing natural gas lines to rennovating the

railroad lines in America. Both ..._ 
these reforms would complement the goals of both sides, he said. 
"There should be an alliance between environment and labor on issues of what happens in the workplace," Commoner said. 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the Economics Department of Notre Dame and The United Steelworkers of America. 
r.Buy 4*;-ssions-;t the regula;lI-price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA 7 a

L-----------J 


OdNoo Halr(UttingCo. ~_.NOlAN RIDGE P ~ 
NEXT TO "ENT\IR!: GRAPE AD., MISHAWAKA 
.277-7~ 
Dally 9-8 -----' 
S.t. 9-6 • Suo. 11·5 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

'Nobel Syndrome' 
Max Dresden of Stanford University lectured on "The Reward in Science: The Nobel Syndrome," at Nieuwland Science on Thursday. 
THE NEW COUNTEROFFENSIVE BY THE "POLITICALLY CORRECT" CLAIMS THIS BOOK IS ENEMY #1. 
YOU DECIDE. 
ILLIBERAL 




EDUCATION 
The Politics ofRace and Sex on Campus 
By Dinesh D'Souza 
$19.95 at bookstores now or calll-800-323-7445 to place your credit card order 
1!rJ THE FREE PRESS 
________________________. 
Any Burger Combo $1 Off


$1 off 
with Coupon 
Live Bands Coming Nov lsi Thur • Sun Molly Hatchet 
A_ffib~>~ ef' Halloween 
Specials every .• '»::) Costume Party nite on food Oct 31st 
1516 N. Ironwood
and beverage Cash Prizes 
$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off 
Owned and .Operated by NO Alumni 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1992·1993 SCHOOL VEAR 
Super landlords Inexpensive 5 and 6 bedrooms Security Systems $100 off first month's rent with this ad 
Call Irish Rentals 287-4989 Offer expires 11/8/91 


Social security raised least amount in 5 years 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's 43 million Social Secu­rity beneficiaries next January will find the smallest cost-of­living raise in five years in their checks: 3.7 percent, or an aver­age of $22 a month, the gov­ernment said today. 
The increase, boosting the average retired worker's monthly benefit to $629 from $607 advanced 0.4 percent. · 
The rate increase was the smallest since January 1987, when it was 1.3 percent. Last January's increase was 5.4 per­cent, the biggest in 8 1/2 years. The 1990, 1989 and 1988 raises all were 4 percent or higher. 
The maximum monthly bene­fit for a worker retiring in 1992 at age 65 will rise $66 to $1,088. 
The percentage increase an­nounced today also applies to 
American Red Cross 


MARilJOLD 
MAI~KET 

TA\LGAff 
PICNICS 
Supplemental Security Income, the welfare program that pro­vides a minimum income for poor people who are aged, blind or disabled. 
The maximum SSI payment will rise to $422 from $407 for an individual and to $633 from $610 for a couple. 
"For over 43 million people who receive Social Security and Supplemental Security Income benefit payments each month, this cost-of-living adjustment will be their assurance that those benefit checks will con­tinue to allow them to pay for needed goods and services... said Gwendolyn King, commis­sioner of Social Security. 
Since 197 5, benefits have risen automatically each year, keeping pace with the annual inflation rate, with the excep­tion of six months in 1983 that were skipped to help the Social Security system out of a crisis. 


•6~~. ~.,., __
'"'"-'· • ' ,-.. ·-,.., ........-,...________,__________ 
~........................................~~-----.----------~----~----------------------~--~------------­

t-riday, uctober 18, 1991 
Republicans urge tax breaks for middle class 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Top Republicans urged President Bush on Thursday to propose an economic-stimulus package that includes tax breaks for the middle class, saying the econ­omy is doing worse than pre­dicted. 
White House officials said Bush was considering offering such a package to Congress, but the president himself was noncommittal. 
"Parts of it are already there (in Congress). Trouble is, they're not listening too well," Bush said. 
"We have to do better in 
terms of selling what we believe in terms of a growth package," he said at a photo session as he met a group of bankers to dis­cuss the economy. 
GOP leaders emerged from an earlier meeting with Bush to say the president had agreed to join them in proposing a pack­age to Congress that would in­clude new tax cuts and other measures to spur the economy. 
"We need to have an eco­nomic growth package rather than sitting around and debat­ing about whether the economy has turned the corner or not," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. 
1ne uoserver 

Catalog of Fine Art Prints Available from P.O. Box 971, Libertyville, IL 60048 1-800-947-3473 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 

~filM ~~ 
Rf"staurant 

!M:_.tp'~·· Mishawaka, IN 
Reeta•r•nl 255-7737 
.

Re s e rv at I0 n s A p pre cia ted 


2041 Cassopolis 
Elkhart, IN 
262-1500 
121 S.Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 120 N. Main 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

At last ... 
Break has finally arrived as sophomore Richard Christenson of Ca­vanaugh Hall does not waste any time in preparation to leave cam-

l§~m~~m~iEi~~n~~;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;..,. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LOUISE MACKEY 
(picture taken during ather Sorin's Presidency) 
GOTCHA! 
--, 
1 
I 
I 
I 
Mandel a: sanctions can stay 
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP)­Nelson Mandela declared Thursday that black South Africans were prepared for the removal of some sanctions against their country but pre­ferred to endure others even though they've been hurt by the measures. 
Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, made the comments at a summit of the Commonwealth in which Britain is pressing the 50-nation grouping of its former colonies to follow the United States and the European Community in lifting all sanc­tions on Johannesburg. 
The black opposition leader said some of the lesser sanc­tions, tied to reforms already implemented by President F.W. de Klerk, "should be lifted" be­cause of movement by the white-led government. 
But punitive trade and finan­cial embargoes should remain until "after the institution of an interim government," said Mandela, who addressed the summit as an invited observer. 
In particular, he said, mandatory U.N. bans on oil and· arms sales with South Africa should only be withdrawn after the "adoption of a democratic constitution." 
Rotten Sneaker Contest 
Who's got the foulest feet in your neighborhood? You can find out by holding a contest-and let the most "scent-sitive" noses in town decide. 

Putting your worst foot forward could make you a winner in a rot­ten sneaker contest. 
Schools, scout dens and packs, 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....~~..._~~~:'.:.,..~~clubs, community groups, even communities, can have fun running an "Odor-Eaters Rotten 
t Edw-a .,.d's Hall PlayersILHlO::::QJ\.0::::1 Contest," say the people at 
• .A.' · Combe, Inc., makers of Odor-Eat­
S1·gn ups .&. A d •t.
-.or u 1 tons Fr1•day, Oct. 11th _1Sth Rm. 215 ofSt. Ed's 
ers®and Sneaker Tamers® insoles. Outdoor locations are best for 

contest-particularlywhenthe 1\,;Ulllj.n:::tition gets heated. Indoors, a tilated room is essential.
coaches, politicians, DJs dfriendlydogsmakegoodjudges. Every winner is a stinker, of 
'butthe truly rotten sneaker 

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!_~======~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~awesomely high in seven other
tegories. Lost soles count. So do frayed laces, gruesome grommets, gaping toe holes, degraded heels,

HERES MY FIRsr'KOWTO SURVIVE., JAYSlCR~T?KINKO'SJHE COPY ITAKtMY BRJUIANT IDEAS 

tired tongues and an overall fero­
IN1HE. 90., AND RETIRE AT 30 AND DESKTOP PUBUSHINu TO KINKO'S, SITDOWN AT A 
cious condition, all scored from a

NEWSlElTER. KILLER. HUH? CENTER FOR -mE 90s. MACI TOSH WORKSTATION) 
safe distance. Just remember, it's against the rules to apply artificial wear and tear to sneakers. 
For a free copy of the "How to Hold an Odor-Eaters Rotten Sneaker Contest" manual, write: Sneaker Manual, Combe, Inc., P.O. Box 328 RSM, White Plains, NY 10602. 
Gladieux TRAVEL 
DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL CALL•COMPARE 
234-6636 1-800-837-4523 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Friday, October 19, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor BuslniiH Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
New. Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager .••••.•••.•••Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick S.lnt Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LEIIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student responds to professor's statements 
Dear Ed I tor: what The Cosby Show says. for everybody. I think this is a from white schools are more Finally, I must address 
In response to the story, ..ND It says African-Americans can very irresponsible comment to prepared for the "real world" is Professor Everett's comments Professor Percival Everett talks form traditional families, we make for a professor ~t a a farce and has been proven as about the movie "Boyz N the on African-American issues" can be professionals, we can go Christian university. such by empirical data. What Hood." He says he werit to see (The Observer, Oct. 7) I have to good colleges, and that, The Webster's Third New black colleges give African­the movie several times because several comments I'm overall, we can be positive. International Dictionary defines Americans is a sense of self. of the audience. Never mind compelled to share and invite This is an important statement the word bigot as .. hypocrite: Most sociologists and psychol­that this movie is the most im­challenges to in response. for us to make, both to our­one obstinately and irrationally, ogists will agree that it is im­portant movie for black men 
First, however, I should give selves and to white America. often intolerantly, devoted to his portant for a person to be able throughout this country to see, you some background about We get plenty of scenes of the own church, party, belief, or deal with him or herself before and all should see it for its so­myself. I am currently a first­other side of African-American opinion." This does not they can build healthy relation­ciological value. year law student here at Notre life; the drugs, the crime, the describe me or most of the ships with others. No matter He says that blacks got an Dame. I graduated from daily battle with racism, the people I have met here at Notre where a black person goes to opportunity "to see themselves 
Bucknell University in June with poverty, and the lack of educa­Dame. school, they have to deal with on screen." This statement 
have fought and died for this that casts African-Americans, American who grew up in the There is no such thing as get­think or believe anything differ­country. We work here, our have to be about these issues? Church of God in Christ and ting too little racism to be pre­ent is to submit to ignorance.families are here, and ev­America gets too much of our have not been outcast or pared for the real world, which My response to the article is erything we are about is here. negative side already. They get blatantly discriminated against is what that argument hinges not meant in any way as disre­
The way we think is American. so much that many believe that is a testimony to the upon. Black colleges give their spect to Professor Everett or as Good, bad, or indifferent, we these vices are all that we, as a atmosphere and relatively tol­students the self-esteem, as­a question of his ability as a are Americans too, and I resent people, are capable of. We are erant attitude here. I will not sumptions, and attitudes that professor. I merely felt it nec­anyone taking that away from capable of much more, and The be foolish enough to say that many hold of us as a people. essary to respond to statements me. Cosby Show represents that. everyone here is of a virtuous This argument is inherently I felt were incorrect or that did I agree with Tom Cruise's Black children must know that heart and are not bigoted, but weak anyway. No one says that not represent the feelings of character in "Born on the we can be positive participants to say that we all are is grossly Catholics who come to Notre myself or people I know, black Fourth of July," when he said, of our society like The Cosby inappropriate. Dame would be unprepared for or white. " .. .if you don't like America, Show presents this idea to I suffer the same indignities the real world and yet everyone Dennis Barnes then get the hell out of here." them. daily that most, if not all in America is not Catholic. The O'Hara-Grace 
I strongly disagree with his I strongly disagree with his African-Americans feel same could be said of Jews who Oct. 9, 1991 feelings about The Cosby Show. statement, "We all have to everywhere in America, but not go to Brandeis or Mormons who It is shows like this that show us admit that we're bigots." I must at the hands of every white go to Brigham Young. No one 
and others what African­say that Professor Everett will person I meet. To assume this makes these arguments because 
Americans can be. Think about have to be much more careful of is folly. they are absurd and so is the 
his choice of words when he Professor Everett's assump­argument against black 
takes it upon himself to speak tion that blacks that graduate colleges. 

•
DOONESBURY 
IT'~ JlJ5T 50+1& IU I'M CRWf7DR.. I [)()N'TGeT NOT KNOIU 1UHYP./~ e~
n:.. HOMe. HAV6 A PHt:JNe. IT'S 
-.....-... N~V!JR. 6()(J(? /'EWS. 
1 ()(Nr6ETG«JJ 
I c\­


:=J'_j' N~5! 
IA/HY1 8£:CAU5e 1/tf N()B(){)Y! lA/HEW YOU PONT HAV!3 A JO~ YOU'Re NOBClJY! IAJHO tAJ4N75 TO TAU< 70 N080CJY? 
f?aJY, 
MKJ.' "\. 
GARRY TRUDEAU UUUTE OF THE DAY 
17'5THe IAJtfU.,, OKAY. aJHITe THAT'S~ 
'He who is afraid of his memories 
~. IT. 
I 
is cowardly, really cowardly.' 
Ellias Canetti 
Don't be afraid. just submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

~----------------------------------~--------------~----~----.-----------------------~----------· 
• 

Viewp·oint
Friday, October 18, 1991 page 7 
LEIIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ticket crunch does not warrant expansion plan 
Dear Editor: 
It is a potentially catastrophic day in the history of this university. Mark your calendar not for the Thomas con­firmation, the record numbers of editorials on homosexuality, the commemorative stamps, or even the start of basketball practice. Today is the day so many of us have feared for a good long while. With feigned reservation and apparent open­mindedness, our trusted leaders Mr. Rosenthal and Father Beauchamp announced the commencement of a study on the feasibility of an addition to Notre Dame Stadium; the house that Rockne built. 
I have heard many of the ar­guments for this proposition. Aside from the fact that it will make Bubba Cunningham's im­possible job perhaps a little less impossible, nothing compels me to accept what I have heard. Mr. Rosenthal commented that this year marked the first time where more alumni were turned away than received tickets, and what a terrible disservice this is. His statement needs clarification. 
With somewhere between 10,000-25,000 season tickets, plus more or less 10,000 stu­dent tickets, that leaves 15,000­23,000 available seats per game. Taking this year's schedule as an example, that leaves 95-000-138,000 seats available to alums per season. Of course, these are rough fig­ures. There are also alums on priority lists, monogram mem­bers and the like, who are as­sured some tickets and then al­lowed into the annual lottery. There are also alums among the season ticket holders. 
Are we to believe there are 190,000-276,000 alums partic­ipating in the lottery? Even if these figures are way off base, which they very well may be, are we to succumb to the utili­tarian thinking that mandates it is better to have only 80,000 alums not get tickets then 100,000? Are there really alums out there who can't get tickets when they really try? 
To all of these questions I an­swer a resoundingly, "NO!" I keep hearing that the over­whelming alumni population is in favor of expansion. Yet, as an '84 grad now in law school (with numerous fellow alumni}, I don't hear it. If it exists among the alumni population, who is saying it? 

At the Michigan State game, I spoke with a '52 alum and monogram winner who would gladly give up his extra tickets to protect the stadium from expansion. I would give my rights to any tickets away in a heartbeat for the same. I be­lieve there is something intan­gible to that stadium that goes far beyond the playing of foot­ball. That stadium was built in the heart of the Depression with money earned by an oppressed people in this country; Catholics. In a time of religious and economic persecution that smothered American Catholics, this stadium was the place where Catholics could fight back against the oppression and hatred they faced. This derogation "Fighting Irish" be­came a badge of honor adopted by this university and was borne out in that stadium. And we were the best! Year in, year out, we were the best. 
To alter this stadium is to leave that all behind. In a time when this university struggles desperately to seek, hold onto and solidify its identity, it can ill afford to play with this fire. The log chapel, the Grotto, Sacred Heart, the Dome, and Notre Dame Stadium... these are sacred to this university. Leave them alone! 
It it is money you seek, do another 5-year plan. You are well aware that in 2 to 3 years your 5-year goals are routinely met. If you truly seek to ap­pease the alums, at least con­duct a poll (or make it public if you already have). Either in Notre Dame Magazine or in next season's ticket applica­tions, include a poll which re­ally indicates the alumni senti­
ment. Get someone from the sociology or psychology de­partment to draw up a non-bi­ased questionnaire and do not act on this idea until verified results are in. Finally, and this may sound the most ridiculous, pray. This goes beyond the normal business decision of how long we want to make our new swimming pool. You are deciding whether or not to alter something which, from my per­spective, is sacred to many. 
Let the debate begin! I, for one, will fight this one right up until they roll the trucks in. 
Tom Dixon Off-campus 
Oct.16,1991 

Stadium expansion would strain campus infrastructure 
Dear Editor: 
It's rather ironic that the great enthusiasm for the Sesquicentennial has now so abruptly coincided with a surge of enthusiasm for the poten­tially disastrous expansion of the football stadium. We have, during this Sesquicentennial time, often reflected upon the great vision of Father Sarin. It seems these ideas and dreams are easily trampled by the throngs of desperate ·football fans who seize the University on game weekends, denying all residents the ability to function normally. 
With the expansion of the stadium comes an increase in 
the masses of fans who must be accommodated during a game. This increase will cause a strain on the en tire existing in­frastructure of campus, forcing the University to divert its en­tire focus to crowd control. It will mean more parking lots, more road blocks, longer de­tours, more frustration and less time to learn. It will be more difficult to eat, to get to your home, or even worship during the takeover. 
This past football weekend Sacred Heart also experienced a great overflow, to the point where security guards, sta­tioned at the entries, prevented additional worshipers from en­tering the cathedral. Even my roommate, a priest who was to celebrate the mass, was almost denied entry and may have well been since the mass started early to accommodate the rush. 
We're not talking about ex­panding the cathedral-so why should we discuss expanding the stadium? Both are signifi­cant architecturally and emo­tionally. An addition to the stadium would be as crude and inappropriate as an addition to the cathedral. 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame last year I expected a huge monster of a stadium equally as big as the Notre Dame football legend. I was most pleased to find that the stadium was not a part of the skyline of campus -instead it realized its place nestled quietly in the campus, completely unobtrusive. In the horizon stood what many must feel was Father Sarin's vision -a University, a Church -the em­phasis on knowledge and per:­manence. 
It is inconceivable to accom­modate everyone in a football stadium. There will always be more alumni who will long to take their family and friends to a game-not to mention the even greater number of non­alumni fans who are a part of the extended Notre Dame Family who long to do the same. But this is a time when we must place our selfish mo­tives aside and focus on the permanent aspects of our pres­ence here as a university and 
not as a football amusement park. 
Like all Notre Dame students and family I realize the impor­tance of football at Notre Dame. But we must let the rewards of our success manifest itself in a manner which will accommodate as many fans as possible (i.e. television) and discourage the seemingly logi­cal "quick flx" of an addition to an impossible situation. 
I encourage the administra­tion, students, and Notre Dame family to resist the expansion of the stadium which would permanently scar our beautiful campus. 
Michael M. Franck O'Hara-Grace October 17, 1991 

'Pro-choice' movement
Abortion also victimizes mothers 

forgets rights of unborn 
Dear Editor: denial and suppression which Research to date has shown In the last few weeks, mem­breaks down sooner or later that the woman's healing pro­Dear Editor: to end my life? It's my body ­bers of the Notre Dame/Saint (after 5, 10 or more years) and cess can begin when she not hers. She has no right in Mary's Right to Life chapter results in severe emotional admits that she was a party to One of the more common ar­deciding to end my life prema­
have presented the facts about disabilities. the killing of her child; grieves guments presented by pro­turely. Did she ask me if she abortion, showing, in effect, Feelings of guilt and shame over the loss; seeks and choice advocates is their claim could do this? The answer to that abortion is the murdering are constant, often coupled accepts God's forgiveness; and that the fetus is part of the this of course is "no." People 
of unborn humans. I would with lowered self-esteem and forgives herself. woman's body. They say since always talk about the woman's like to point out another of severe depression. Sufferers of These women are, in a the child is part of her physical right for an abortion, how about abortion's life-destroying Post Abortion Syndrome also sense, victims of abortion body then she can do anything the child's right to live. 
to it, including killing it. Now ifconsequences-the effect of experience insomnia, feelings along with their murdered I was the child being aborted, I Robert E. Payneabortion on the mother, now of sorrow and hopelessness, sons and daughters. As would really be ticked om Pangborn Hall identified as Post Abortion anniversary reactions, Christians, we need to extend How can some woman decide Sept. 23, 1991 
Syndrome. dreams, nightmares, and to them our forgiveness, our This is the medical name for reliving. Often these women support, and our love. the emotional and psycholQgi­become suicidal, chemically 
Students should try to use cal trauma experienced by dependent, sexually Kathleen S. Renard women who have had abor­dysfunctional, and unable to 303 Howard Hall 
rideshare box in LaFortune
tions. It is characterized by maintain stable relationships. Oct. 9, 1991 

Dear Editor: riders. 
Hi, are you the one who How do they meet?? pays $45 one way to go to Wouldn't it be nice if there Green Bay, WI? Oh, now I was something like a remember. You are the one rideshare box? Some central who ended up not going to spot where everybody could Detroit because you felt it was leave a m~ssage without too inconvenient to have a 3 paying for an ad. hour train overlay in It exists! The ridesharebox Chicago... If only you had a is located at the south car... But then, there are other entrance to LaFortune. Only if people who do have a car; like lots of people (and I mean maybe-you? students as well as faculty) 
Did you ever get tired use it, will it work. So why driving for 8 hours to don't you put your message Minneapolis, probably getting there right now! Or are you a speeding ticket because you not going someplace for fall hurried to get there? Save gas, break, Thanksgiving or share expenses and take Christmas? somebody with you! So, now Joern Meissner there are the drivers, who Off-campus seek riders and prospective Oct. 14, 1991 



•
rea 


• 


Tips supply hints lor barII 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Satnt Mary's Accent Edttor 


hen was the last time you had $500 to blow? I thought so. Call me boring, a stick-in-the-mud, anti-socialite, but I have yet to visit any of the bars in South Bend. My bank account balance and bad luck cannot take it. Last year my roommate's 
boyfriend's roommate (got all that?) was in the major Bridget's bust and had to be bailed out ofjail around 4 a.m. 
The guy's friends pooled their money and he ended up owing them a sum that could have paid for his books for a year. A steep fine, a police record, and ticked-off friends, for pitchers and a cheap thrill or two. 
This week I will be clubbing in Fort Smith, Arkansas, as I did last Fall Break and do every vacation. Although I am nineteen, have never possessed a fake I.D., and am not particularly devious, I have never been refused into a bar at home. In fact, half the people I see on the weekends are underage. None of us have ever gotten arrested. Then again, none of us are named Rick or Demetrius. 
Take heed, minors. Over the past year I have concocted elaborate schemes to get into almost any bar and have had fun doing it. Under danger of creating delinquents, I decided to share my illegal secrets with my fellow minors. 
Rule#l: Go late. If you are the first one there, chances are slim that you will get in no matter what you do. Also, standing in line gives too much time to break into a sweat and freak out. If you go when there is two-way traffic at the door, the bouncer may be buzzing (either directly or from the fumes) and won't remember if you've already been there or not. 
Rule#2: Look old. But don't be obvious. Heavily-applied makeup, big hair, and high heels do not necessarily create a picture of maturity. Adults don't have to try to look adult, do they? Leave the trendy fashions from Seventeen magazine at home. Dress conservatively so you don't draw unwanted attention to yourself. It might help to tint a few hairs grey. 
Rule#3: Act confident. Act is the key word. Everyone's nervous their first time. That doesn't mean you have to show it. 
Rule#4: Practice. Visualize your evening play by play and how you should act. Walk in front of a mirror. Make demure facial expressions. Look slightly bored and never appear anxious or like you don't belong there. Be armed with your quickest wit, a Lee press-on smile, and a stock of conversation topics that can be used to wheedle your way inside or with the Italian Stallion sitting at the bar. 
Rule#S: Research. College students are well-practiced in this department. Ask your bar-hopping friends which bars they go to. Memorize names and locations. If you like dance music, Sundowners probably isn't the place for you. Be daring and visit one based on name alone. Tiger Harry's (Grrrrr) and Faux Pas (Big mistake ... huge) were worth investigating. 
Rule#6: Know when to quit. If Dragonlady is at the door asking for two picture I.D.s and a major credit card, motor on outta there. It's not worth jeopardizing future weekends by arguing. There are other clubs to invade. 
Rule#7: Be polite. No one appreciates a rude criminal. 
Rule#8: Have an alternative plan. Which brings me to the plans I've become famous for among my hometown friends. Follow them to the letter, play by the rules, and you're guaranteed success. 
The Honest Approach 
Last spring break I went to Beethoven's for the first time. I had only my student J.D., which, as we all know doesn't have a birthdate. I explained to the bouncer that I lost my driver's licence while we were moving and this was all the identification I could find. If the honor system works in the men's dorms at Notre Dame, 


Breaking possibilities are endless 
By LISA EATON Managtng Edttor 
0 
K, well the time has com.e At last, Fall Break is here once again (or for the first time for those rookie members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community). 
Students anxious for fun, ex­citement, or just good ole' fashioned relaxation are joy­ously preparing for ten days of pure, unadulterated heaven (or at least that is what those zany writers of du Lac think). 
The suitcases are being dragged out of the storage area, freshmen are debatinl! how many books they will n~ed to bring home (frustrated by this taxing decision they usually bring them all), and everyone is checking to make sure their tickets to wherever are still there. The stage is set; let the fun begin. 
Before going into the whole Break experience, one must first be aware of what could possibly happen within the next ten days. So for the convenience of the greater ND/SMC com­munity here is a little preview of the upcoming attractions (all ratings are on a scale of one to ten bottles of beer). 
The South Bend Break 
• 
This Breaking option doesn't rate too high on the ad­venture scale. Perhaps it might merit a half a bottle of Olympia, but even that is being a bit generous. To be perfectly honest, nothing goes on in South Bend while the students are gone that won't happen while they are here. Notre Dame is a very quiet, serene and possibly boring place to be during break. But if that is what you are looking for, go for it. 

• 
In the Potential for Productivity category, however, the SB Break wins a whopping eight and a half quality bottles of beer. When left in the quiet and studious environment, the ambitious student could be transformed into a monster of academic achievement; reach­ing news heights and forging 


new ground for the annals of Studentdom to record forever. Be cautioned, however, into slipping into apathy and "I have all week so I'll do it tomorrow" frame of mind. Before you know it the Trojans of USC will be landing the Michiana Regional and you will have accomplished nothing. 
• The SB Break gets an even five bottles of Budweiser for its merits as a Economically Viable option. At first glance, the fact that no travel expenses are in­volved is a plus, but the cost of having to find enough food to satisfy the TV watching student is defmitely a minus. 
Add to that the fact that the Huddle and the legendary Oak Room are the onlv convenientlv located food ser-Ving establish-­ments. They make a mint off the fact that NO students are forced to eat there and are damn proud of it. 
The Let Mom Spoil You Break 
• 
This rates pretty high on the list of popular breaks for most freshmen. No one would argue that letting mom (or dad) cook your favorite meals and make a big fuss over the fact that you have returned home to the nest once again is definitely not a bad situation to be in. This op­tion rates a big nine bottles of beers for its Regression Back to Childhood potential. 

• 
As an Economically Viable option, the LMSY Break is pretty good. Depending upon where you live, the travel ex­penses could b~ a significant factor. But on a whole, in any situation where the parental unit is happy to see you, they are most defmitely going to be generous with the funds. All in all, there are a good six bottles of beer here. 

• 
On the Potential for Adventure scale, however, the LMSY Break is sadly lacking. Unless your parents are into spontaneous rafting trips over Niagara Falls or safaris into the African jungle, the folks aren't likely to a source of ad­venturesome inspiration. This one will get about a five and a half, in the hopes that there are 


some safari-going parents out 
there. 
The Fun, Wild ·n Out of Control Break 
• 
This break has the potential go over the top on the Fun and Excitement scale. A little sun­shine, a few good friends, and the right choice of location could be the perfect combina­tion for a break to remember. 

• 
As a Viable Economic op­tion, this break only gets about four bottles of beer because that could be all the beer you can afford to purchase by the time you get to your destina­tion. Remember gas, food and sleeping accommodations are not cheap, so consider your plans carefully. 


Just a note: the spontaneous, "I've never been here before, so let's just go and see what hap­pens" approach is a high risk, high reward type of deal. You could have more fun that ought to be allowable by law. You could, also, come back with the 
flu, no money, a bad attitude, and no fun memories to justify ~he whole experience. Just keep that in mind as you set off for parts unknown. 
• The FW'nOOC Break also tops the scale in the Opportunity to Bond with Friends category. There is nothing like being out in the middle of nowhere with only a map and prayer to get you to anywhere closely resembling civilization to bring out the best in a friendship (seriously!). You will be able to share each others deepest, darkest and most juicy secrets while relax­ing and just generally enjoying being anywhere but South Bend. 
The scenario for the FW'nOOC Break is limited only by the imagination of the indi­vidual. 
Well, the possibilities for the Breaking experience are almost endless. If your break isn't that exciting, don't worry there is always next year. If your break is definitely exciting, then you have a great story to tell all the people who are going to use the ever famous "How was your break?" conversational gem on you when everyone gets back. 

By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 

Y 
ou've made i1 You've fill1 
many dol 
answer she• 
you've gaine1 respect for Seurat, t artist. 
It's time for October and you've earned it il sweat, coffee, an< Mountain Dew that has feeling wired and tirec same time. 
But before you rN warm haven of home, y one more trial to E Scooter, who will be st ride with you for the 
hours, and who want 
you about his sky-divin1 
every step of the way. 

VVhat keeps you ramming the station wa the next available or semi? 
The comforting thou 
your week will proba 
like this: 
SATURDAY 
Sleep. 
page 9 


l• 
e 



; for barhoppers 
1 try to look adult, do they? Leave the why not in the bars? I got in. t!nteen magazine at home. Dress The Intimidation Method ·aw unwanted attention to yourself. It If you have the good fortune of having a girlfriend with a very grey. big boyfriend, you are in business. My friend had a boyfriend from 
is the key word. Everyone's nervous a military base who has a membership to Beethoven's. Whenever nean you have to show it. she and I wanted to get in without a challenge, we had him meet 
your evening play by play and how us at the door and sign us in. On the rare occasions that the nt of a mirror. Make demure facial bouncer protested, the boyfriend just looked down at him and said, ·ed and never appear anxious or like "Hey, they're okay. They're with me." 
1rmed with your quickest wit, a Lee My Favorite, Never-Fail Plan I conversation topics that can be used At bars where your hand is stamped, it's a cinch to get in. Park or with the Italian Stallion sitting at your car where people leaving the bar are in sight. If there is 
security at the door, case the joint in dark glasses so you won't be 
students are well-practiced in this recognized. This is a good reason to have your windows tinted. ,pping friends which bars they go to. Follow the first people you see leaving and wave them over to your ations. If you like dance music, open window. Ask to see their wrists and memorize the picture. 1e place for you. Be daring and visit Park in a safe place where no one can witness your illegal :er Harry's (Grrrrr) and Faux Pas (Big activity and bring out the tools of the trade. I have become so tvestigating. practiced at drawing and smudging stamp design~ that you ~an't 
t. If Dragonlady is at the door asking tell the difference between them and the real thmg. For th1s to 1jor credit card, motor on outta there. work, you have to have done your homework and know what ture weekends by arguing. There are colors the stamps are. 
My purse is always equipped with a fine point black Bic pen and ppreciates a rude criminal. Clinique Fawn Satin eyeshadow. Just flash your wrists, pray that e plan. Which brings me to the plans no one feels the need to inspect them closely, and walk right in. g my hometown friends. Follow them Of course you could always fall back on the conventional, , and you're guaranteed success. unimaginative methods of gaining entry like having someone let 
you in the back door or unbuttoning your blouse down to your 1 Beethoven's for the first time. I had navel. Or causing a distraction and sneaking by. Or claiming you're h, as we all know doesn't have a a new employee and you're late for your shift. >Ouncer that I lost my driver's licence I wish you the best of luck this week in bar-hopping in your.his was all the identification I could hometown. Pity the poor juniors and seniors who have already(Sin the men's dorms at Notre Dame, turned 21 and don't need a plan. They miss out on all the fun. 

Y 
By PAIGE SMORON SUNDAY Get in a fight with your Home Assistant Accent Editor Sleep. Town Honey. Hug your mom. ou've made it. Go to church. THURSDAY 
You've filled in so Sleep. many . dots on MONDAY Hug your mom. answer sheets that Sleep. Eat great mounds of food. 
you've gained a new Hug your mom. Sing along to "The Sound of respect for Seurat, that dot Eat great mounds of food. Music." artist. Hand your mom a whopping Cry at the end of "Mary It's time for October Break, bag of soiled laundry-proudly. Poppins." 
and you've earned it in blood, Call your Home ToWn Honey. Play more Nintendo. sweat, coffee, and Diet Volunteer to play Monopoly Mountain Dew that has left you TUESDAY with your little brother. feeling wired and tired at the Sleep. Be ashamed when h~ accuses 
same time. Hug your mom. you of filching from the bank. 
But before you reach the Eat great mounds of food. Write your Grandma a thank warm haven of home, you have Gently point out to your mom you note for the banana bread one more trial to endure: that your boxers are not she sent you back in September. Scooter, who will be sharing a pressed properly. Include a "P.S." apprising her ride with you for the next 15 See your Home Town Honey. that you would not be averse to 
hours, and who wants to tell future care packages in the you about his sky-diving lessons WEDNESDAY form of money. every step of the way. Sleep. Break up with your Home 
What keeps you from Hug your mom. Town Honey. ramming the station wagon into Eat great mounds of food. FRIDAY the next available oncoming Rent every musical Julie Sleep. semi? Andrews has ever appeared in. Pack your car with great 
The comforting thought that mounds of food. your week will probably look Play Nintendo. Hug your mom goodbye. like this: Get in a fight with your mom Pick up Scooter. 
over the rolling of your socks. Realize with sheer horror that SATURDAY Dejectedly do your laundry at this point, even Scooter looks Sleep. yourself. pretty good. 
Fall Break Destinations 

.·. For this poll we randomly asked students about their plans forFall Break. All information was complied by Katie Eustermann, and photos taken by Sean Farnan. 


.. ."l'm goii}J{ tq go home to 
•. yisit my giflfriend and my
Jamily-.-ro g~t my laundry
done. I'm p~tinitely goin' to 
a (DetroitJ Rea Wing 
game ... ther're going to win 
when I ge there. That's 
about It. I'll do no 
homework, and enjoy 
·my~eJf."
-Mike Johnson,


Stanford Hall 
"I'll be pa,rtyin' at a 
medical school in New York,·. 
as well as checkin' Q!lt the . 
facilitiesi_all in an etiort to · 
plan my tuture. Additionally, ·.· 
I'll continue to train for tlie 
upcQming American .... 
Gladiator Com_petition in 
which I WI[L re-cut 
"Diamond" and rip "Star" 
from her personal heaven." 
-Kim Tfac_y,
Knott Han 
"Stay here, work like a 
fiend on all of the stuff I 
haven't gotten to yet, and 
........ bang my ne.a.d a~ainst a v1all 
EHn reaction to tne horror of 
~mimy own existence." 
~!!!1. -Marshall Armintor, ~!ti Grace Hall 
I 



"I'll be visitin.R colleges in Minnesota. I'IT also l>e in 
Chicago to narticipate in the 
studio auaience for the 
Ophrah Winfrey Show." 
-Rosie Cox 
Le Mans Hall, 
Saint Mary's 

>· "Over break... ah, let's 
see... I'm goin' to check out 
the Braves at the World 
Seriesi as well as fulfill my
plans o liberate Croatiah. . 
m the interim I will bar-qp
aimlessly through the music 

. ·scene in Athens, Georgia. -Matt Seng, 
ZahmHaD 


"At 7:45, Saturday
morning, I'm getting my .· 
teeth pulled. . ~wiSpom teetH. 
· 
It's goin' to be tun! -Charlott~ DQ.epker,
Pasquerilla West 
\ 

' 
page 14 The Observer 
I~,~~has~~~c!hufw2i~ the smokinganogC~~~turn,
of being unfairly accused, a Innocent, he was like Job, ac-never said anything to diminish dread of the witnesses claiming cused of things that never hap-
fafher Roberf Griffin their stature. to know the whereabouts of the pened. Couldn't the Senator smoking gun that links the ac-from Massachusetts, remem-l tt t l 1 G d You could say of Anita Hill 
cused party to high crimes and bering all the Kennedys, living e ers 0 0 one Y 0 that he she suffers from hubris misdemeanors. Smoking guns and dead but have always been as the femme fatale, able to can be real or merely alleged, presumed guilty even when produce the smoking gun like the skeletons in the family they're innocent, have allowed abortion are turning good we were warned against pas­existing in her memory like the closet. ·You'd better be cleaner Clarence Thomas some benefit people, pro-life and pro-choice, toral situations which could sword of Damocles. At the than a hound's tooth,· the elder of the doubt? into zealots; and zealots, end in our being falsely accused eleventh hour, you could think statesmen tell the young politi-What does Anita Hill know sooner or later, tend to cause as priests of inappropriate be­of her as a Delilah-figure cians, aspiring to be candidates about Clarence Thomas, and trouble and turn ugly. On the havior toward souls who telling secrets, betraying entering the fray. when did she first know it? If one hand, they bomb abortion trusted us. It doesn't take much Clarence, so that, like the 
If you're guilty of the break-she's telling the truth, she kept clinics; on the other hand, they imagination to understand how Philistines attacking Samson,in at Watergate, there's bound a secret that could have been assassinate character. helpless a priest would feel, his enemies could destroy him. to be a smoking gun used against him like a smoking The scenarios keep getting faced with accusations that But Clarence does not credit somewhere covered with your gun for ten long years; yet she grimmer, and I'm afraid of the could destroy his ministry. Anita with anything so mean. prints. Even if you're innocent, waited until the eleventh hour violence in store for all of us. A you can be placed on trial for to make the existence of the gross injustice has been done to Professional people are For him, if not for her, other people's sins and though smoking gun known. Why? Judge Thomas as a Supreme always in danger of being hurt memories, if they exist, have a you may be in very real pain at How should I know? Court nominee whom the pro­by false witnesses, and I statute of limitations. He says: seeing yourself falsely accused choice people fear; and if, the expected the senators to close ·1 search my soul, trying to and your life in shambles, the However, Majority Leader smoking gun that Professor ranks against the cheap shots, discover what I could have done onlookers will shrug you off as Mitchell, in his speech before Hill alleges to hold, blows up in even if it did make them look to her. • a character in a soap opera the confirmation vote, puts us her face, she, as the accuser, like a club of good ol'boys; but which parodies life. Didn't the on notice that Clarence Thomas will also be damaged. they played politics with the I cannot tell you that Anita Gulf War seem like a mini­is opposed to •choice, • while ladies, instead. Hill is not a heroine, or that series based on a novel by John the majority of Americans are The hearings were more than she's caught in the rush of LeCarre? in favor of •choice. • I've wept as many tears,
a seminar on sexual harass­events that she doesn't under­
The senators who kept insist­Apparently, the pro-choice ment, for they introduced many nearly,for the Kennedys as they stand. "Things are in the sad­ing that the Senate hearings advocates kept beating the of us to a superb human being. have wept for themselves, so I dle, and ride mankind," wrote this weekend were chiefly valu­bushes until they turned up the Clarence Thomas may have feet don't think it's Kennedy-bash­Emerson. We're constantly be­able in heightening our aware­sexual harassment charge of clay, and I can'tjudge him as ing to say that if Teddy had ing surprised and disappointed ness of sexual harassment which they could use against a lawyer; still, he appears to be shown as much grace under by the way history, repeating struck me as real Johnny-one­Thomas like a smoking gun. quite wonderful. pressure at Chappaquiddick as itself, turns into a smoking gun 
notes, terminally shallow, if This promotion of Anita Hill's He stands a head taller than Clarence Thomas did when we that spoils the day. that's all they got out of the accusation by special-interest the senators who questioned saw him wounded, the senator three-ring circus they staged. groups is a scenario that him; compared to Judge would never have lost credibility Yesterday's friends may turn Could any of those public fig­William Safire, following the Thomas, they did not look like as a presidential candidate. into tomorrow's critics; but ures, seeing Clarence Thomas leads turned up in the hearings, heroes; and he was, in his taking a cue from Clarence accused, whether innocent or has been developing, as an bearing and manner, a tragic At the hearings on television, Thomas, we must not say uncle. guilty, have failed to think: expose in the New York Times. hero worthy of the stage. I the nation saw gifted young Abortion is an evil that can set 
•There, but for the grace of As a political animal, I tend think the senators only half blacks siding against each a man at odds with his God, go I•? to be fairly stupid; but as an understood him when he ob­other; and I hated the politics mother,his sisters, his brother, 
If guilty as charged, Thomas American Catholic, I'd like to jected to being racially stereo­which have divided them into and his neighbors. Love and was just another corrupt male register the pain that many of typed. It would help the warring camps, like the Irish, truth, not politics, not civil brought low, like Jimmy us feel over the way the senators if they read more who have always had trouble strife, can bring us peace and Swaggart and Father Bruce abortion issue is corrupting the literature of the South. fielding an army because they insight, and make us civil to Ritter with his track record country. The politics of As students in the seminary, don't often think well of one each other again. 
Penguins knock off Islanders 8-5 
Coffey breaks NHL scoring record for defensemen 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Paul scored his first goal with 28 Calgary Flames scored on their Coffey broke the NHL scoring seconds left in the period to first three shots on goalie Grant record for defensemen and Bob make it 5-2. Fuhr as they handed the Maple Errey had three goals as the The game was the first be­Leafs their fourth straight loss. Pittsburgh Penguins beat the tween the teams since the Blues Marc Habscheid scored two New York Islanders 8-5 on rallied to eliminate Detroit in goals for the Flames, who Thursday night. seven games in the opening skated to period leads of 4-0 
Coffey had two assists to give round of the playoffs. and 5-l. him 1,053 points for his career. Jaromir Jagr's goal halfway Flyers 5, Nordlques 3 Black hawks 4, Oilers 2 through the third period PHILADELPHIA -Andrei CHICAGO -Jeremy Roenick snapped a 5-5 tie and brought Lomakin had two goals as the scored two goals in the third the Penguins to life after a list­Philadelphia Flyers scored five period as the Chicago less second period. straight times to defeat the Blackhawks defeated the 
Quebec Nordiques 5-3. Edmonton Oilers 4-2. 
Red Wings 6, Blues 3 The Flyers extended their Adam Creighton scored from 
DETROIT -Rookie defense­home unbeaten streak against just outside the crease 3:15 into men Nicklas Lidstrom and the Nordiques to nine games. the final period to break a 1-1 Vladimir Konstantinov scored The loss extended the tie. their first NHL goals during a Nordiques' winless streak to Roenick's first goal of the five-goal second period to lead five (0-4-1). night 82 seconds later made it the Detroit Red Wings to a 6-3 Philadelphia's Mark Pederson 3-1 to help the Blackhawks victory over the St. Louis Blues. scored with 4:35 gone in the fi­withstand a goal by Craig Muni. 
After a scoreless first period, nal period to break a 3-3 tie. Then, after goaltender Jimmy the teams combined for seven Teammate Brad Jones scored Waite preserved the tie with a goals in the second, including his second goal of the season 35 nice save on a close shot by Joe two power-play goals in 49 seconds later for insurance. Murphy, Roenick clinched the seconds by Steve Chiasson and win with an empty-net goal AP File Photo Lidstrom, a rookie from Flames 6, Maple Leafs 4 with 20 seconds left, his sixth of Detroit gained a measure of revenge in last night's 6-3 victory over Saint Sweden. Konstantinov, a Soviet, CALGARY, Alberta -The the season. Louis. The Red Wings lost to the Blues in last year's NHL playoffs. 
Packers' woes continue as Bears break two-game losing streak 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) -The yard field goal early in the quarter. on a puat return early in the for a touchdown with 1:44 left Chicago Bears managed only fourth sent the Bears (5-2) to a The Packers' deepest drive all fourth quarter. But a whistle in the first half. The scoring one touchdown Thursday night. victory after two straight losses. night only reached the Chicago while the ball was loose blew pass capped a nine-play, 66­It was plenty against the Green The Packers, who had 138 43. the play dead and allowed yard drive, featuring a 16-yard Bay Packers. yards total offense and made Majkowski fumbled a snap Chicago to maintain possession. pass to Anderson, a 14-yard 
The Bears shut down and just five first downs, fell to 1-6 out of the shotgun and Richard Harbaugh then scrambled for run by Brad Muster and a 10­shut out Green Bay's sputtering with their fourth straight loss Dent recovered for the Bears at 15 yards and Neal Anderson yard pass to Thornton. offense in a 10-0 victory. It was and 11th in 12 games dating the Green Bay 14 with 30 sec­broke loose on a 27-yard run to Harbaugh's touchdown pass Chicago's 11th victory in the back to last season. onds to go in the third quarter. the Packers' 25. Butler then was his first ever to a tight end. last 13 games against its long­Don Majkowski, in one the Chicago just missed a first missed a 47-yard field goal with Harbaugh completed 18 of 29 time rival. worst performances of his ca­down and settled for Butler's 7:45 to go. passes for 142 yards. 
Jim Harbaugh's eight-yard reer, completed only three of 16 22-yard field goal with 13:48 to The Bears, whose first two The Packers, meanwhile, con­touchdown pass to James passes for 32 yards before he play. possessions ended on a fumble tinued to struggle. Green Bay Thornton late in the second was replaced by former Bear Trailing 10-0, the Packers and interception, finally scored still has not scored in the first quarter and Kevin Butler's 22-Mike Tomczak in the fourth apparently recovered a fumble when Harbaugh hit Thornton quarter this season. 

--~--------­
• 0 ' • • r • J ' 

The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts dasslieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m at the 
Notre Dame dfice, 31• LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day dassWieds is 3p.m. All classified& must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, induding a" spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typing Fast, Professional 277-7406 
Buy and Sell used books Pandora 's Books-newbooks and the NV Times too II corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342/10-5:30 everyday 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
·I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: ND VARSITY LETTER JACKET SUNDAY AT STEPAN FIELD. ND. ALUM. PLEASE CALL ADAM AT 271-0716. 
LOST: WALKMAN AT THE HUDDLE ON 10110191 AROUND 11 PM. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MARl AT X4270. I CANNOT SURVIVE WITHOUT IT! • 
LOST: BLUE JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR BAR ON SATURDAY, 10112. CALL LORI239-8327. 
FOUND: MEN'S WATCH IN LAFORTUNE COMPUTER LAB. CLAIM IN COMPUTER LAB. 
LOST OR STOLEN JESUS 
He's 3-dimensional and my RA wants him back to light up his room. Return him with no questions asked to 316 Flanner. 
God would want you to do it. 
LOST-pearl necklace in grey eyeglass case 10/9/91 REWARD!!! Kathleen 288-9421 
FOUND: MEN'S GLASSES IN CUSHING AUD. SATURDAY NIGHT(10:30pm). CALL BOB x1902 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST: gray zip-up sweatshirt wthood with keys in pocket. Lost Wed, 10116, in Rm. 220 O'Shag. Call Dana 277-8084. 
LOST: Navy blue blazer at the SMC Junior Dance on Fri. Oct. 
11. I left coat on coat-rack in Haggar Hall. 'Dilliards' brand name on inside coat pocket. 
Reward. If found call Chris atx2377 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.Summer,Vr.round,AII Countries ,All fields. Free info. Write UC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
Statistics consultant wanted-ND professional specialist or grad student, expert in stat &SPSSIPC 4.0, to help local firm design & implement customer surveys. Must have time available. Send resume to SBS!KMA, PO box 1024, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Downtown book warehouse NOW HIRING Send Name, Add., phone#, yrtmajor, to Mr. Turner, P.O. Box 4621 South Bend IN 46624 
TRAVEL FREEII SELL QUALITY SPRING BREAK VACATION TO JAMAICA. HIGHEST COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR THE BEST! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n1o. 
BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP WANTEDIII North America's Best Damn Tour Co. Only H-Life can offer you a FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP for every 20 paid and a chance to win a YAMAHA WAVEJAMME R. Join thousands of other campus reps. 
Call Now 1-800-263-5604. 
Need 2 USC tickets for possible future Domers 
Call Rich-1742 
I FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 bdrm house. $150 & $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 Walk to campus. 
CydePro Mountain B1ke, 18 speed, 26" wheel, 19" frame, $200. Fuji Touring Bike, 12 speed, 27" wheel, 19" frame, $165. 232-2631. 
student football ticks for sale. call 232.3753 
I TICKETS I 
---.-. ---­
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. 
i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. pete x1791 
$$$$$ 

USC GA's needed. Call and leave message 2n-9468. 
$$$$$ 

NEED TENN. GA'S. CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
Vince Needs two GA's to see THE TROJANS Call x3414 anytime 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
i need GAs for NAVY!!! Todd x1784 
HELPII Need 3 GA's for NAVY x2797 
FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME GAMES273-1802 
I NEED NAVY AND TENNGA'S 
HAVE 1 PITT GA FOR SALE OR TRADE 
CALL TOM X1762 
HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ ASK FOR AL@ X1230 
WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL 284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, NUMBER AND PRICE 
Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Bridget X3778 
NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT 277-9733 
Need 3 USC GA's together:::: Have 3 GA's(2 together) to sell/trade. #1164 
I NEED 2 USC G.A.'S Call BARB x4761 
I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT TICKET TOM-TOM X1762 
PLEASEPLEASEPLEASEPLEASE 2-4 TN GA'S SEAN @289-6439 
TRADE: Will trade 2 USC GA's for 2 TENN GA's call: 259-6956 
NEED N.D. FOOTBALL G.A.'S 2 or 4 for U.S.C. or Tennesse Phone 256-2836 
NEED GA'S: 5 TENN & 1 NAVY KELLY X4854 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL MEGAN x1275 
Helpll!l I Need 2 GA's to USC. Please call Andy @ 233-9588 
NEED stud tix or GAs for any home games. Call John 232-8065 $$$ 
Sell whole ticket booklet or next USC game. Call alter7pm 2323330. 
Will trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 USC or 2 Tenn. GAs. Call 289-4061 days or 277-6239 nights. 
will trade 2navy GA for 2USCI 2TENN GA-Kevin 3252 
Need 4 USC GA's, 4 Tenn. GA's, and 3 Tenn. Stud. Call #3718 
NEED 13 ND-USC GA TKTS. CALL 284-5261 IF YOU ARE SELLING. 
I NEED NAVY GA'S CALL KRISTIN 277-6708 
NEED 10 TENN. G.A.S call Pat Arendt x1535 $$$$$ HELPII NEED USC AND TENN. TIX!I CALL X3353 
Need 1 USC GA or Student ticket. Call X4637. Thanks! 
WANTED, 4 PENN st ga' x2447 
Alumni needs USC tix. Will pay top $. Call Rick collect 602-957-6870 after 7 p.m. 
NAVY NAVY NAVY I need Navy tickets in the worst way. Please help me. We're having a reunion and I need GAs for out-of­town alums. If you have tix call Kelley 239-5303. 
HELP! I'm in need of 4 GA tics for the TENN game. Call Alissa at 284-5319. 
'91 Alumni needs two G.A. s to U.S.C. Willing to pay X amount for tickets. Call Jim @ 271-8311 before break or Pat Murphy at (314)227-0091. All we need are 2 tickets and thats all we need. 
Need 2 U.S.C. GA's. BIG MONEY Call Jim @271-8311 before break or Pat Murphy@ (314) 227-0091 during break. 
Need 2 Navy GA's call Kim at x4355 
i need 2 GA's for USC and PITI. Greg x1795. 
i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791 
Need 4 TENN GA's call jon 271-1562 
I need 2 USC tix Tom #3109 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL COLLECT 812-477-2627 
I need a Navy GA desperately Call Mike x4655 
HELPI Alum needs 2 USC GAs Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 
I NEED USC GAS CALL PHIL X2096 
Need TENN & USC GA's Stan X1726 
NEED NAVY GA'S SHARON 284-5146 
Need 2 GA's for Navy and Tennessee. Call lim at x1417. 
111 pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC and Tennessee. Chris 239-5713 
I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So my friends can see those Red Neck Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. 
Anentionll have friends coming from California who woud love to see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs or student tix would be most excellent, dude. Call277-6932 and give Rob your price. If Rob isn't home listen to his excellent answering machine and leave a message. 
Please sell me your Tenn. GA or student tix. x2985 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD WAY II Brady x1191 
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. RANDY 800-323-7687. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S, Will Trade Tenn Student Tix and Plenty o' Cash! Call Dan X1236 
NEED TWO TENN. GA'S PRICE NO OBJECT I CALL CHRIS #3364 
WANTED: 2 USC GA'S­BURGEOISE CALIFORNIA RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS I.E. $$$$$$$$$$$ CALL SEAN 289-6439 
I NEED 1 USC GA. PLEASE! CALL ELLEN X4830. 
$$$$NEED 1 USC GA$$$$ $$$DOMINIC x2348$$$ 
Trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tenn GAs. Call Mike XJS.;9 
Need USC GAs please! Paul x1605 
SELLING USC TICKETS. LUIS 273-1528. 
wanted: many Navy and USC GA's whitney x4304 

HELP! I NEED 6 USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENTS!! PLEASE CALL X1704 OR (708)249-0149 
BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs Marc x1689 

NEED 2 USC GA'S Steve x2366 
$$ I NEED 4 USC GA'S LINDA 272-5486 $$ 
NEED ND-USC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!! CALL JOE @ 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M. 

Hi there! Gene's my name and Insurance is my game. My only wish is that I insure that you become very wealthy. How you may ask? For merely selling me 4-6 GAs for the USC game, I can help you plan for your financial future by removing large sums of money from my wallet. Seal the deal by calling me @ 291-3778. Don't call after 10(might wake up the littie Mrs.) 
Can you dig thisII am terribly interested in buying a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object, unless of course you want more money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. If Dave is busy his personal staff will be happy to help you. Irish V-ball ruleslll!l!llll! 
Poly vou Francais? Neither do I. Now that we have something in common you should have no trouble selling me a GA or stud. tick. for USC. I am willing to make deals that are just smoking. Trust me. Call Quinn at 283-2059. 
If you only knew how bad I need 
U. S.C. G.A.'s!!!! 
Ple~se call anytime X.4588 

Please make my family happy with 4 U.S.C. Gas. I will pay top$, Jenny at 3822 
Have stud tix bks for sale. Call x4774 or x4780 
will buy any tenn or navy tix. john 1811 
Need GAs for USC Call Jackie 277-3610 
I need USC GAs or Stud. Tx.l Call Monica 273-2202 
NEED 2 NAVY AND TENN GA'S MIKE 1655 
USC USC-MY DAD WILL GET A USC GA;WILL YOU BE THE LUCKY ONE TO SELL IT TO HIM?CALL SAM AT 4863 
WANTED: 3 TENNGA'S CALL x4774 
USC stud tik 4 sale Ryan 3459 

ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE ONE· ONL V ONE -USC GA Call lan x1203 
Who has that miracle ticket? 
Need 4 USC GA's for NO Law Grads. 
Call Pete at 234-4715, or over break at (412)241-5409. 
NEED 1 STUDENT and 3 GA'S for NAVY CALL KARIN at x1314 I!I 

Need Tenn. sr. or alum tix$$ please call Dan x1740 
Need 2 Navy and 2 tennessee G.A.'S. Big $$$. Call Chris x2377 

Good afternoon, my friends. I have a small request which I hope can be mutually benefi<:ial to all involved. I desperately need 4 GAs for Tennessee. If vou have anv at all please call Gina@ 2982. If I am unavailable, please leave a message so I can get back to you. 
PERSONAL 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
Liam, 
Hi I ND misses you .. You're my favorite wiggly man... Have a happy Columbus Day 
Love, the Peach Girl 
FAST EASY INCOME! EARN 1OO'S WEEKLY STUFFING ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: FAST INCOME P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 

I'll give you punishment, tough guy! 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11amto3am 
The Only Alternative Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone: 234-4015 
stronger than burt 
English classes offered 
Beatriz Call 272 9713 
Hey Notre Dame, 

Jen's birthday is this Saturday, October 19th, but she won't be here to celebrate it, since she's going camping (picture that one if you can). You should definitely give her lots of gifts and wish her a happy birthday because: -she's a hands-on type of girl -her liver is going to be in the Guinness Book of World Records -she is the most awesome person to ever grace this campus Jen, hope that was tame enough for you. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
Love, Rich 
BERT KOEHLER: II you are reading this personal, it means you should be in dass. GET MOVING!! 
CARROLL HALL CARROLL HALL HAUNTED HOUSE 
HAUNTED HOUSE who : da' Vermin when :Thurs. Oct. 31st where: Carroll (didn't you 
read the headline?) why : it's SPOOOOOOKV! Admission: $2 
The ghouling starts at 7:30 ends at 10:30 
JORY JOHANSEN-Somehow we got the idea you wanted a personal -hint, hint! 
HAPPY BELATED 19TH BIRTHDAY! 
-How did you ever lock yourself in the shower? -Alvin, -;Thedore -How's the guy from the gas station, &what was it he wanted you to do again? ·Duke -Christian Laneneor, you're my hero! -Clueless! -Doogie, Doogiel 
• Wed. nite T.V. -How was Octoberfest? -Do you still have your ID, or have you lost it yet? -I don't understand! -Who's going to type your papers this year? 
Miss You. Love, Jen, Amy, Tramp, Michelle, Joy, Quotable, Mary Beth, Mo, and all the rest of your friends on the homefront. 
WITNESS NEEDED 
WHOEVER WAS DRIVING THROUGH THE INTERSECTION OF E. EDISON RD. &SOUTH BEND AVE .• ESPECIALLY ON LEFT LANE ON EDISON RD. HEADING EAST, AT 10:15 AM, OCT. 15 AND WITNESSED THE TRAFFIC ACCIDENT, PLEASE CALL LARRY AT 273-1746. THANK YOU. 
Hey Monica, How do you like being in the paper twice in one week? Congrats on the interview. I enjoyed lunch, but not the companylll See you after break. -FL FOR ONCE (buh-dum), THE PEOPLE DOWNSTAIRS...IS TWENTY I We're done waiting for Carapup...CARA SCHAFFER, drama goddess, has finally "score"dl 
DEOUGHI Personal for you I 
All right! All right! You're the BE!st roomie and friend we could ever hope for. Have a wonderful twentieth b-dayl We love you! -Kathy, Jeni, Erin, Sarah, 
Chris, John, Beccan.Joe, Angela, Tracy, Brendon, Eric, Brian, and Chad 
P.S. Oh, Puh-Oon't call me Perky, Chuckles! Because, hey-free dummy! 
To the 3 BC's: Okay, I'll meet you in the kitchen and we'll, uh, whip something up. My specialty is burgars, I mean, burgers. 
-MCV 
P.S. I don't know how many bagels will fit; my branch hasn't been the same since 
S.B. hung from it at Grandpa's. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Class's every Sat. & Sun. at8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth & love. Can provide financial security & education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim 1-800-456-2656. 
Irish Music & Dance@ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISfN 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts 
Groups of Six Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The Bahamas. As Low as $488.00 each lnduding Cabin and Meals. Call Anytime. 
1-800-999-7245 (SAIL) 
Hey HoneyII just wanted to let you know that I'll miss you terribly (almost as much as I did throughout the summer) next week, and I look forward to the day we actually get to spend some real time together again. And remember, only 616 daysl LVMVWVNV Always! Tanya 
HOORAY FOR THE MEN OF THE BOURGEOIS 
PRETTY BOVZ ULTIMATE FRISBEE STUDS bring it on Brian Daily intent! 
Jory Johansen needs mail in Austria. Write her and keep her company. JORV JOHANSEN JOSF.F-HIRN-STR. 5nt5 A-6020 INNSBRUCK TIROL, AUSTRIA 
...And Nancy's 211 VEAIII 
Vol O.C.-Vou weanies. Stop reading the personals. Get your gossip elsewhere. Sorry. Sinful in the Manor. 
THE CARROLL HALL HAUNTED HOUSE 
•more fun than decent people should be allowed to have." 

LIZZIE, I LOVEVOUI LOUIS 
Good Luck KP and the rest of the soccer team with your upcoming games since your QUALITY fans will be far away. Enjoy the sun !Ill 
EVERYONE WISH TOM RYDER AND JEREMY MAYERNIK HAPPY BIRTHDAYS BEFORE THEY LEAVE FOR BREAK. TOM IS FINALLY 21 AND JEREMY IS OVE"R THF Hll L AT ~n 
HAPPY SHUT A-, TRIXIE! Love always, Kristin and Jenn 
Did anyone find a pair of glasses by Sacred Hean Church a couple of weeks ago? Please call Chuk @ 2795 .••. 
Heidi -thanks for salsa 
page 16 The Observer Friday, October 18, 1991 
Grace's running attack too much for Dillon in 20-0 win 

. PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Atlanta Braves finally shucked their loser's image, shutting out Pittsburgh in Game 7 of the NL playoffs and setting up the most unlikely World Series ever. 
The Braves made winning look easy Thursday night as John Smaltz pitched Atlanta past the Pirates 4-0 for its first pennant since moving from Milwaukee in 1966. 
Now, a season full of sur­prises ends with the biggest one yet. The Braves, baseball's poorest team last year, and the Minnesota Twins, the only other team this century to go from worst-to-first in consecutive seasons, meet up in the World Series starting Saturday night in the Metrodome. 
Brian Hunter's two-run homer capped a three-run first inning, and that was all Smaltz and the Braves needed. The Pirates' big hitters again went poof, and Pittsburgh was shut out for the second straight game. 
A day after NL playoffs MVP Steve Avery and Alejandro Pena shut down Pittsburgh 1-0, Smoltz won his second game of the series with a six-hitter. In reversing their history, the Braves also stopped the Pirates' series of Game 7 suc­cesses-Pittsburgh had played five previous deciding seventh games, and won them all. 
This time, it was over early. After the Braves knocked out 20-game winner John Smiley in the frrst inning, the Pirates had their best chance when Orlando Merced and Jay Bell led off the frrst with singles. 
But the big three of Andy Van Slyke, Bobby Bonilla and Barry Bonds each made outs, failing for the umpteenth time. They were a combined 0-for-33 with runners on base for the series until Bonilla singled in the eighth. 
Hunter, a rookie, drove in three runs. He hit a two-run homer after Ron Gant's sacri­fice fly in the first inning, and added an RBI double in the fifth. 
In the ninth, with 500 Braves fans chanting and chopping in the far reaches of the upper deck, Smaltz finished it quickly with a 1-2-3 inning . 
• 
For the Pirates, the loss marked another season of dis­appointment, far worse than last year's six-game playoff de­feat by Cincinnati. 
Pittsburgh was baseball's best team during the regular season at 98-64, and came into the playoffs calm and confident. The Pirates won the opener. took two of three in Atlanta and returned to Three Rivers stadium this week with a 3-2 lead. 
But that's where it stopped for the Pirates and started up for the Braves. Smaltz capped a streak of 27 straight scoreless innings for Pittsburgh at home. 
The Braves won the fifth pen­nant in franchise history, and first since 1958 in Milwaukee. Atlanta had been swept in its only other playoff appearances in 1969 and 1982 before this year. 
The Pirates went meekly, and so did their fans. A crowd of just 46,932, more than 10,000 fewer than watched Game 1, saw the season end. 
Smoltz struck out eight and walked only one in shutting down the Pirates. 
His only trouble after the first inning came in the eighth when Bell singled with one out and Bonilla singled with two down. But Smoltz got Bonds on a routine fly. 
Bonds is in line for his second straight NL MVP award, but for the second year in a row, he was a playoff bust. He went 4­for-27 with zero RBis, and was 0-for-16 with runners on base. 
Last year, he managed only three singles in 23 at-bats. 
Smiley also was a failure. He gave up four runs in the first inning in losing Game 3 to Smoltz, and seemed nervous Wednesday night about pitching Game 7. 
He led off the game by walk­ing Lonnie Smith, and then gave up a single to Terry Pendleton off the glove of second baseman Jose Lind, advancing Smith to third. 
Gant flied out to deep left, scoring Smith, before Smiley struck out David Justice. He appeared to be off the hook, but got tagged on Hunter's drive into the left-field seats, just inside the foul pole. 
Fisher, Carroll tie 7-7 in battle of Rockne unbeatens 
ByJONATHANJENSEN (2-1-1) won the divisional title, bring Fisher to within one, and Sports Writer • but Dillon, Off-Campus, and the extra point tied the score. Grace all have identical 2-2 From there, the defenses took Steve Romine and Tun Slentz records. over, and neither team could 
led an unstoppable running at­Dillon beat Off-Campus 2-0 by generate much offense in the 
tack as Grace (2-2) rolled past forfeit, and 0-C beat Grace 21-0 final quarter. Dillon 20-0 last night at Cartier earlier in the season. IncludingField. last night's result in Stanford 0 , Alumni 0 
Grace opened the scoring in determining head-to-head point Alumni (2-1-1) missed several the frrst quarter on Romine's on differentials, it appears that Off­opportunities and ended up ty­
25-yard sweep. Just before the Campus has clinched the ing with Stanford (1-2-1). half, Grace quarterback Slentz second playoff spot. Rec-Sports After a scoreless first quarter,
scored on a one-yard bootleg to will make an official decision the Dawgs missed a 3 7 -yardmake it 12-0 Grace going into today. field goal that would have given 
intermission. 
them the lead. Alumni 

After a goal-line stand by Fisher 7, Carroll 7 linebacker Gary Faucher's in­Dillon (2-2) to end the third In a battle of the unbeatens in terception stalled a promising quarter, Tim Klusas scored a the Rockne Division, Fisher and Stanford drive just before the safety for Grace to push the Carroll decided nothing about half. 
score to 14-0. Then, with 21 which is the superior team. An impressive Alumni drive seconds left in the game, Grace Carroll's Anthony Laboe ran which brought it to the Studs' capped off an impressive drive for an electrifying 63-yard re­3-yard line went for naughtwith a 15-yard touchdown pass verse to set up the Vermin's when a fumble prevented the 
from Slentz to receiver Jeff first score. Vermin fullback Dan game's first score. The DawgsBurns. Turner ran it in from the two to then missed another 37-yard"They played solid," said put Carroll (3-0-1) ahead 6-0. field goal after forcing Stanford 
Grace coach Keith McKeon, Andy Iliff then added the extra to punt.
"and their intensity was a major point. Alumni's last hope was contributor to the victory." After the half, the Green quelled after a penalty nullified 
Grace's win creates a three­Wave (3-0-1) got rolling. Fisher a 14-yard pass that had way tie for second place in the running back Curtis Baker brought it to the Stud 20-yard­Parseghian Division. Flanner scored on a seven-yard run to line. 

AP File Photo Pittsburgh center fielder Andy Van Slyke thought he had a three-run homer in the first inning of last night's 4-0 loss to Atlanta in Game 7 of the National league Championship Series. Instead, Van Slyke's drive was hauled in at the warning track by Braves' right fielder David Justice, and the Bucs failed to score in the inning. 
Nothing could save Pittsburgh from Atlanta's staff 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Not even the history books or the home field could save the Pittsburgh Pirates from the Atlanta Braves' pitching staff. 
The Pirates were 5-0 in deci­sive Game 7s of postseason series entering Thursday's de­ciding game of the National League playoffs. And Oct. 17 marked the anniversary of their last two World Series triumphs, in 1971 and 1979. 
Uh, make that 5-1 on a not­so-happy anniversary. 
General manager Larry Doughty said the Pirates "had the horses to win it all," but Atlanta instead rode some of the best pitching in playoff his­tory -this time, by John Smaltz -to a 4-0 victory in Game 7 and successive shutout victories in the final two games. 
"They are the classic over­achievers," Andy Van Slyke said of the improbable worst-to-first Braves. "There's not one person in this stadium who thoughtback in April they'd win the division, much less win the pennant here in Game 7, or have a chance to win the World Series. But they're talented and got great pitching ... and they stuck it to us. 
"We underachieved." 
In the end, which for Pittsburgh might actually have occurred in its tension-filled 1-0 loss in Game 6, the Pirates had no offense and no defense for Atlanta's pitching. 
"If we hit, there is no Game 7," VanSlyke said. 
In this series, the Braves' magic number was zero. Or, more appropriately, 000-000­000-0. 
The Pirates' big three of Van Slyke, Bonilla and Bonds pulled a big 0-for-30 with runners in scoring position after the first inning of Game 1 as Pittsburgh went scoreless for the final 22 innings. Pittsburgh's last run came in the fifth inning of its 1­0 victory in Game 5 in Atlanta. 
"I hate to think we can't play in October, but the numbers show it." Van Slyke said of the 
Pirates, who lost the playoffs to Cincinnati last year. The Pirates' last stand actu­
ally may have been in Game 6. 
Coming home to a huge crowd after consecutive tightly pitched victories in Atlanta, the Pirates' confidence before Game 6 s" 
But they did lose 1-0 to Steve Avery, and the loss deflated their confidence quicker than a deflated beach ball in Dodger Stadium. For the first time after Game 6, the Pirates realized they actually might Jose the series. 
And none would say it pub­licly, but few Pirates had the confidence Smiley obviously was uptight after Game 6, and was even tighter Thursday, failing to survive the first fol­lowing Brian Hunter's two-run homer in a three-run inning. He was 20-8 during the season, but Smiley will be remembered just as much for his 0-2 record and 
23.63 ERA in this series. 
"I let my team down and it's going to take me a long time to get over it," Smiley said. 
The Pirates had the best overall record in the majors both this season and the last two years combined. 


•a..s......~..........~s........~....a..~..~--....a....~--------...-............-.....~--------~ 
Friday. October 18, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Men's cross country to compete in IU meet 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
After a two week rest from competition, the seventh­ranked Notre Dame men's cross country team is hitting the road again this weekend for the Indiana Intercollegiates on Friday. 
The meet at Indiana University in Bloomington will feature talented teams from all over the state of Indiana, in­cluding IU, Purdue, Ball State, Indiana State, Anderson College, and several other small colleges. 
Today will be the first time the Irish have competed in the meet since 1987. Historically; Notre Dame teams have done very well at the meet. In 1987, the Irish finished second to Indiana and in 1984, the Irish won the event. 
In the past, the meet fell on the weekend following the National Catholic meet and the Notre Dame Invitational. Irish coach Joe Piane has a policy of not running in meets on three consecutive weekends and de-

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Junior John Coyle (left) and sophomore Mike McWilliams are expected to be near the front of t_he pack at today's Indiana Intercollegiate meet. 
spite the success Notre Dame 
has experienced in the meet, he 
has turned down the invitation 
for the last three years. 
"I won't revamp our schedule 
to accommodate history," said 
Piane of the meet. 
This year, the event was 
moved back a week, and the 
Irish were more than happy to 
participate. 
"It is an opportunity for us to w'tt a big meet and it is also a good meet for us to support," said Piane. 
Another reason to run in the event is that Indiana will play host to the NCAA District IV meet and it is an opportunity for the team to run on the District course against several teams they will face in the District meet. Running with control will be more important than getting to know the course according to Piane. 
"We don't have to run on the course to run well in districts," said Piane. "But, if we come away with a good run, we'll have positive feelings for the course. We really want to con­trol the tempo we run at and to run more as a group this race." 
Representing the Irish will be seniors Kevin Keegan and Mike Drake, juniors John Coyle, Nick Radkewich, J.T. Burke, sopho­mores Mike McWilliams, Hugh Mundy and Shawn Schneider, and freshmen Nate Ruder. Senior captain Pat Kearns is ill and will not be travelling with the team. 
Coyle was the highest finisher for the Irish at the Notre Dame Invitational in sixth place. McWilliams placed 12th, Radkewich placed 15th, Ruder 
placed 25th, and Keegan was 33rd. 
.2:-;;Jt::")j.l"' F'! r...£A~ Resta::nt & 
,,~~ ..• Cocktail Lounge 
~ U ALL 

Authentic Szn<:huan, 
,, J'l Y!lnri<trlr "''"'""!In Ct!!"'"~ . $3 9.,
Lunchee .tarting r.Jt-· -• ---. $ .i5 
Dbmera .tarting at.------. 5. . 
Bar & Hestaurant open 1 ..,. Mon.•Thura. 11:30 •.m. to 10 p.m., Fr1.·Sat. 11:30 •.m. to 11 p.m. SUn. 6 ......,_ 11:10 ua. to 10 p.m. 1JO Dbde w.,.... Soull .....('*It to ~linn) 272-7378 
Women's cross country travels to Bloomington with high hopes 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The next test for the Notre Dame women's cross country team is the Indiana Intercollegiate meet which takes place in Bloomington today at 3:00 p.m. 
The team's spirits are high following a week off after finishing third in the National Catholic Meet three weeks ago and second in the Notre Dame Invitational Oct. 4th. 
The host Hoosiers are the favorite in the race, with Purdue, Ball State and Notre Dame also expected to chal­lenge for the title. Indiana is nationally ranked and may not even send their top runners into the race. This gives the Irish even more hope to catch the Hoosiers. 
..It would take a great race to beat Indiana," said senior Diana Bradley, "but they're definitely within our reach." 
The Irish will look to the freshmen. who have paced the Irish thus far, to finish high in the race today. 

Have a terrific fall break. Call when you get back!! 
•• 1177
gc•

27... •1 Hfl '·'··~. • ·. •
I 
FREE DELIVERY 
PAPA JOHN'S PREDICTION: NOTRE DAME 49 AIR FORCE 13 
New Hours M-Th 11:00 am -1:00am F-Sat 11 :00 am -3:00 am sun 12:00pm -12:00am 

Volleyball team opens MCC action this weekend at Butler 
Observer Staff Report 
While most Notre Dame students take a week off to relax, the volleyball team will [et busy with six games in the 
next eleven days. The Irish take to the road for three games, then come home for a tripleheader weekend. 
The October 18 match at 
Butler begins the MCC confer­
ence slate for Notre Dame (8­
6). Butler is 12-8 overall and 1­
1 in the conference. The two Freshmen Eva Flood and Stefanie Jensen have finished first and second respectively for the Irish in the past two meets. 
Even with the emergence of the talented freshmen, the Irish have needed the leader­ship of Bradley and fellow se­nior Amy Blaising, and junior Lisa Gorski. They have led the Irish this year, even if it hasn't been showing up on the score sheets. 
"I feel like it's a job I have to do," said Bradley, who fin­ished third for the Irish in their last meet. 
Bradley has been a pleasant surprise for the Irish in her last season of cross country. 'Tm achieving some of my lifetime goals," she said. ''I'm really happy but I don't want to stop where I am." 
The Irish leaders can't afford to stop doing their job either as the Irish··enter the rmal weeks orthe season. 
..We work really well to.. · gether," said Bradley. "'It's easy to combine our leader­ship qualities ... 
teams split a pair of matches last year. Another conference match follows October 19th at Evansville (9-11, 0-2). Notre Dame cruised to victory 3-0 in the 1990 match. The Irish 
Close out the road trip in a non­conference match at Illinois. They have never beaten the Illini in four tries. 
Notre Dame will come back to the Joyce ACC Friday, October 25, to take on conference foe Xavier (18-4, 2-0}, losers of a tight match to the Irish a year ago. The match begins at 7:30 p.m. Dayton (11-8, 1-1) will visit next, October 26 at 4:00 
p.m. 
The Flyers handled Notre Dame in three games last season. 

The flurry of activity ends on Sunday, October 27 at 2:00 

p.m. 
when Akron visits Notre Dame. The match will be the first meeting between the two schools. 


The Irish should be well rested for the difficult stretch after not playing a game in the last ten days. They last saw action October 8 against Valparaiso, beating the Crusaders 15-7, 15-9,15-10. The victory ended a three-game losing skid. 
r------------------·
! y;~~g WAn:t! ! 
i11111111111111111111/111111 MegaStore I 
I II :  MOVIE MegaStore TWO for One Rent (1) NEW Release  I 1I 1  
I  Get 2nd One FREE  1  
II  Nell Vald WMJfllr ~gr~  I I  

1 10011850 I 
1 euW.NeltllllqAn. 
I 

I 1
......_....,m

1 an.,.. 11141 lellth._.A.-. 
1

I ...........m I 
I li71·U78 I 
~------------------· 

page 18 The Observer Friday, October 18, 1991 
SMC volleyball pulls out easy win at home 
Lorton. "We played well all­she took over for starter around and much better than in Michelle Martino during the recent games. This built up our third game. "Laura did a nice confidence and proved we could job setting for the team. I was do it." impressed with her play." 
Although Saint Mary's showed Lorton provided the team its outstanding ability in the with 12 blocks, 11 kills and 7 first two games, in the third digs, while Martino contributed game, the team did not keep the 26 assists for the win. In addi­momentum. The Belles made a tion, Lorton recently became great comeback after falling the NCAA Division III leader in behind at one point 2-8, but blocks per game with a 3. 71 eventually lost the third game. average and third in the naiion 
"During the third game, we in kills per game (3.85). Martino had a difficult time adjusting to also received recognition, as the a new person (freshman setter national leader in assists (8.4 Laura Haller) on the floor," per game). coach Julie Shroeder-Biek said. The Belles will complete their She went on to praise Haller's homestand this season October performance, however, after 31 against Hillsdale College. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three-man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654­8345. 

•ND 
Cricket Club will not have practice this Sunday. Practice will resume Sunday, October 27, 6 p.m. at Loftus. 

•ND/SMC 
students, faculty or staff participating in the Chicago Marathon: please report your times and place of finish to The Observer by Monday, October 28-the first class day after fall break. 

•ND 
Hockey is looking for keyboard players who would like to play during the game or prerecord songs for the upcoming hockey season. Interested? Call Coach Ric Schafer 239-5050. 


! \ 
I 
I 
\ 
By EILEEN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles stifled a three-gaine losing streak by defeating the University of Chicago, 15-12, 15-5,12-15, 15-9, last night at Angela Athletic Facility. 
In the firSt game, both teams showed excellent control and skill, utilizing excellent commu­nicational skills. However, the Belles prevailed in game one, and then continued their com­mand on the floor by exploding to a 13-0 lead in the second game. 
"They were a good team," explained captain Karen 
UMass 

continued from page 20 
goals and three assists, and Jodi Hartwig, who leads the team in game-winning goals, will have to be at the top of its game both on the road trip and for the homestand. 
Hartwig, who scored the game-winner at William &Mary, has seven goals and seven assists and is second in the MCC in scoring behind Porter. She was named MCC Female Athlete of the Week for the week of October 13. 
"Jodi played very well; she created a lot of chances for us," Petrucelli said of the freshman after the win over William & Mary. 
Notre Dame will return from the road trip to face the Louisville Cardinals on Friday, October 25, at 3 p.m. at Alumni Field. Though the Cardinals have struggled this season, they fast year's 1-0 Notre Dame vic­tory. 
The crucial game of the homestand will be on Sunday, October 27 against Xavier, which is currently riding an eleven-game unbeaten streak and has an 11-1-1 record. 
MCC 
continued from page 20 
country. It will be a tremendous opportunity for the players to gain experience and recogni­tion. 
"For me, it's an opportunity to go out and play well," said Faustmann. "I have absolutely nothing to lose-none of us do. We can go out and make a 



The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
Freshman Tiffany Thompson has made an immediate contribution to the women's soccer program. Thompson has scored three goals and assisted on five others for the 16th-ranked Irish. 
name for ourselves, and it will 
bea~eatexperience." ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
"Playing well in the All American would give me so much more confidence in my game,"added Harris, an NCAA participant last year and thus, no stranger to playing the top people. "It would be a big help to get into the main draw. I'm excited to go to California, and I'm glad that Laura and Christy got in too. It will be a great op­portunity for them." 

THE POINTE 

AnliNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $465 2 bedroom apartments starting at $595 
Everything you are looking for in a 
luxury apartment: 
Falltlze wuller & dryer 

FaiiJ equipped put, ...,._
Wall to wall car~tlas 

aH ,... tltebe• 
Floor to eetn.s MJ wbulowt 

O.&door poelaatl , ....deck 
H~ted. coftl'ed ,......., 

Bxerdle .....
Cer..aletlled....._ 

T..... ea•tl 
Cellftale•tb•tr............ 
teNotreDame 

287-2684 
N pm Moll • Ftl 10..SpmSat 
Agi fhatStand A.·p·•·r·t ln•dleBMt 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
.. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE 
SCHOOL OF 

YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle7 Kaplan prep courses help students ra1se their scores and theirchancesof beingadmitted inlotheir first-choice schools. Fact is, noone has helped studentsscore higher1 
272•4135 
AT AlAR'S 
Now that you've danu.:d 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Alar's. 
I • 
It features lots of great food at great prices: • Five Fluffy Omelettes 
• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 


·More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 
The next time you·re not quite '"'"'",_ to call it a night. heao to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all· new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
A~~­
BiuBou 
Family Restaurants 



....................~s........a..~........~............a..................~..............~....~~--------~9 
Friday, October 18, 1991 The Observer page 19. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


Professor Glickman, the lab practical joker, deftly places a single drop of hydrochloric acid on the back of Professor Bingham's neck. 
CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'!"'1"""-i---11---f 
E\6\-IT... NIN£ ·~ Tt.N ! "~ I COME I ROO'( OR.. NOT! 

vn
I 


wow. IT'S BE:fiUTIFUL. 
You'RE. A LUCK'/ 6JiRL, Y'KNOW. 
THE NICEST fHINCn A 
1'/0TRE. DAM€. &UY £'/G R G!AVE M£ WAS ntf fQIIluO€.­
BILL WATIERSON 


-

(0 Edward Julius  Collegiate CW8706  
51 Signifying maiden 23 Inn for travelersACROSS name 24 Former French 1 Penman 52 Humor magazine province 7 Responded 53 Enemies of clothing 25 Imitate 15 Ingenious 54 Captain ---­28 Lamprey and 16 Fetch 57 U.S. railroad electric 17 Rodeo activity 58 Rare-earth element 29 Mr. Caesar 18 Pertaining to 59 Do a floor job 31 01 d song, "­a debating 60 Ones who try Seesaw" 19 Played a part 61 Certain store­32 Box ---­20 Part of NCO keeper 33 Rain lightly 21 N.W. state (abbr.) 34 "Walden" author, 22 Aspects and familyDOWN24 Cleopatra's killer 35 Foods 25 Middle East gulf 1 Skin injury 36 Certain sports 26 Record of brain 2 Hackneyed expres­cars activity sian 39 Ending for pay 27 Lively dance 3 Indication of a 42 Garment worker 29 Tired sale item (2 wds.) 43 System of weights 30 Elasticity 4 Harvard vines and measures 33 Depot {abbr.) 5 Fender ---­44 Instruction from 36 Writer Bernard­(accident) Jack LaLanne 37 Mr. Koppel 6 Energy unit 45 Sun bather 38 Hypothetical sub­7 Dog sound, in 47 Mme. Curie stance comics 48 Aroma, British style 40 Irritates 8 Sign gases 50 Game of chance 41 Move slowly 9 Barber shop item 52 Indian servant 43 Playing marble 10 Songbird 55 Suffix: geographical 46 "---­la Douce" 11 German number area 47 Extinct New Zealand 12 Hospital physician 56 Hindu sacred words bird 13 Trial material 57 South American 49 Capital of Montana 14 Poured, as wine country (abbr.)  CAI.VIt AND HOBBES  l i II: I ~ u '  B:>t I O\Dtt1 -rnlt-tl<. ~·p £'1£/l GtT ~E. -mE '"~ TR\~ 'ffS OOt LONG COtt'l· PlJ.IKI ~~ L.E~Nit-¥.; ~ Brnl~t>.  

BILL WATTERSON 

OK., FIRS\ Wt.'R£. ~NG ~~All M m LEARN 11-\£ "t:'t.At>MAA'S UP Wll"H 10 FleA\: PA~ roR CCi.lEG£ .. 
• 

Bill WATIERSON 

NEXT TIM£ WE ~O'J\D ~£ T~ 11\E WI~OOvf5 nGER. AAC SM~Et>! ~1\1£ l<:XX ~T 
K\0. N£ GL&5'5! 
8U:B "'£shes ever-yone 
..

a sa e anti fun 
f'a[[ :B r-ea~. 

• 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

r 
I< 
; 
j; 

I 
~ 
! -, . 
I ~ 
~ I 
.\ 
I~ 
l iJ 

ll'I 
),, 
1 
1 
" 
r
,j 

Sports 
page 20 Friday, October 18, 1991 
Women's tennis hosts MCC tourney 
Irish send 3 players to national tournament over break 
By RICH SZABO 
at first, with Doran and Vitale Sports Writer at second, and Bradshaw and Catherine McGinley at third. 
The Notre Dame women's Faustmann and Schwab, who tennis team hosts the MCC would normally play doubles, Championships this weekend, are also going to the All­and if history repeats itself, American, so their play is goingthen the Irish will walk away to be limited to singles this with their fourth consecutive weekend. conference team title and a Louderback said, 'Td just as 
slew of individual titles as well. soon have Faustmann and 
The Irish are coming ofT im­Schwab play only singles this pressive performances at their weekend. Melissa is going to sit own Irish Invitational and the Melissa Harris the whole thing out. Also, Brown Invitational, and easily Catherine McGinley has done a
second singles players Tracy
have to be considered the fa­great job for us and she de­
Barton and Melissa Harris will
vorites in this tournament. serves to have a shot at playing
sit out, with Barton resting for
However, coach Jay this weekend." 
the Rolex regionals in two
Louderback says that nothing "I think the team is playing
weeks and Harris preparing for 
should be taken for granted. very well right now," said
the All-American tournament
"We're looking forward to McGinley, "so the MCCs should
in Los Angeles, beginning on
hosting it again," said go well for us. The tough
Tuesday.
Louderback. "It's a tournament matches we had at Brown will
Also sitting out for the Irish
that we should do well in, but give us confidence going into
will be senior Katie Clark, who 
we still have to go out and be the MCCs."
is recovering from a back in­
ready to play, and we will." Play begins at 9:00 a.m. on
jury. It was hoped that Clark
The tournament will feature Saturday and continues
would be able to play either
only five schools: Notre Dame, through Sunday at the
singles or doubles, but
Butler, Evansville, Xavier, and Courtney Courts if the weather
Louderback decided that her
Dayton, down from seven the is favorable, or else indoors at
return would have to wait. 
year before. Saint Louis and the Eck Pavillion. Marquette left for the Great 
"Katie is practicing," he said,
Midwest Conference this sum­After the MCCs are over, most
"but we talked about it and 
of the Irish will be on fallmer. right now we don't want to take break, but Harris, Schwab, and
a chance having her play. It's
The tentative Irish lineup will Faustmann, along with
better ofT us waiting. She would 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

feature Laura Schwab at first Louderback, will travel to Los
be a big, big help for us and
singles, followed by Christy Angeles for the All-American In the clear 
we're hoping she gets back
Faustmann, Lisa Tholen, Terri tournament, which features
soon." Quarterback Rick Mirer leads the Notre Dame anack into ColoradoVitale, Ann Bradshaw, and In doubles, the Irish will go some of the best players in the Springs this Saturday for a showdown against the Air Force
Kristy Doran to round out the 
with Tholen and Eniko Bende Academy. See the Football'91 pullout fo_r a preview of the game. 
sin£rles lineup. Regular first and see MCC I page 18 

Women's soccer faces huge test at 11th-ranked Massachusetts 
By MIKE SCRUDATO returning home to begin a by Holly Helmuth, who has consecutive shutouts. country and I think we can do Sports Writer three-game homestand in seven goals and an assist on the Last weekend's successful trip well against them." 
which Notre Dame will host year. to Virginia in which the Irish On Tuesday, the Irish will face The 16th-ranked Notre Dame Louisville, MCC foe Xavier and The key to the game could be defeated William & Mary and the Providence Lady Friars, women's soccer team will be Wright State. the outstanding goalkeepers of Monmouth provided the team who are currently ranked in 
busy over fall break trying to the top ten of the competitive
Tomorrow's game against the both teams. Sophomore Briana and Irish coach Chris Petrucelli 
extend its eight game winning 
Minutewomen, a perennial Scurry minds the nets for with a lot of confidence for this Northeast region and have streak and undefeated season. national power, could prove to UMass. She has posted a 0.40 trip. given some top teams a toughFirst, the Irish (10-0-2) will be the toughest game of the goals against average and has "Our performance last week time. Their stingy defense has 
travel to New England for two year for the Irish. recorded seven shutouts this proved to us that we can com­not given up more than three games: tomorrow, they will be Massachusetts, which enters season. The Irish counter with pete with the top teams in the goals in a game this season. severely tested by the 11th­tomorrow's game with an 8-2 junior Michelle Lodyga, who country," Petrucelli said, "I am The Irish offense, featuring ranked Massachusetts Minute­record, has made the NCAA leads the MCC with a 0.29 GAA really excited about the upcom­Stephanie Porter, the MCC's 
women. Then, they will go on to tournament seven of the last and will be looking to extend ing weekend. We will be playing leading scorer with twelve Providence on Tuesday before eight years. On offense, it is led her school-record streak of six some of the best teams in the 
see UMASS I page 18 

Men's soccer faces DePaul; stern tests ahead over break 
By JASON KELLY last five in a row, which puts Sports Writer them right on schedule. 
"We are looking at the season 0 Junior Ortiz C 2 Rafael neuiM.i JF The Notre Dame men's soccer in thirds,.. Joseph noted ...In the 1 Jarvis Brown OF 4 Jeff Blauser IF team looks to add to its five­first third we were just getting 
game winning streak tonight at used to the college game be­
7 Greg Gagr.e IF 5 RonGant OF 
7:30p.m. against DePaul (1-10-cause we have so many fresh­
9 Gene L;,,.kin IF 9 Terry Pendleton !F 1) at Moose Krause Stadium. men, but in this third we • J1 Chuc:.. Knoblauch IF tO Greg Olson c After finishing the wanted to establish ourselves 12 Brian Harper C 12 Sid Bream IF Midwestern Collegiate Confer­and our goal was to go 6-0 and 
ence season with a dramatic 
we want to make that come

13 Mike PagliaruJc If 14 Brian Hunter IF .. win over Butler last Sunday, true."
14 Kent Hrbek lF 

15 Jeff Treadway IF ' and with three tough games 
1~ :·'au' Serrcnto !F ; f, Tommy Gregg OF looming ahead during fall A win over the struggling ~ {' -~ -~ r L ~. ·' 
1 .1 ~~--:.r ... ~~:-~'#C~}i"'• ,.. 17 Keith Mitchell OF break, the Irish (7-3-1) will Blue Demons will make that 24 Shar,e Mack OF have to guard against a letdown goal come true, but the Irish
18 Jim Clancy P 

against the Blue Demons. will have to fight through a25 Randv Rush OF 19 Franctsco Cabrera C
; . "A loss to DePaul would really tough defensive battle to win
26 At Newman IF 20 Mark L!•mke IF 
hurt our chances for an NCAA tonight. DePaul goalie Marcello30 Terry Leach P 23 Dave Justice OF 
tournament bid," freshman Bartucci has posted a stingy31 Scott Leius IF 26 Alejandro Pefia P 
forward Jean Joseph 1.03 goals against average,commented, .. and we want to while Irish goalie Bert Bader's
32 Dan Gladden OF 21 Lounie Smith OF 
earn the respect of teams 0.86 mark leads the MCC.
34 Kirby Puckett OF 29 John Smoltz P" J 
around the country." After tonight's game, Notre
36 Kevin Tapani P ~Mike' Stanton .-P 
With their play in the last five Dame begins preparation for a38 Rick Aguilera P 31Jeny Willard C 
games, the Irish already have tough fall break road trip. 40 Steve Bedrosian p· _32 0\arlie Leibrandt P 
earned the respect of some of A visit to Washington, D.C. to 
the nation's top teams-enough face Georgetown kicks off the 44 Chili Davis OF 33 Steve Avery P respect, in fact, to retain the trip next Wednesday, before
47 Jack Morris P 43.Mark Wohlers ,p, 
number seven ranking in the they travel to Columbia, South50 David West P ~ndy St.' Clai~ P-­Great Lakes Region for the Carolina for the South Carolina 
51 Carl Wftlis P ·:a'7.,:.r,.,,,_ GlaviDe I' 
third straight week. Met Life Classic. There, Notre 
After beginning the season 0-Dame will play eighth-ranked
53 Mark '"•ll·. .K10Pn'l-Melt-Jeer p 
2, the team won seven of their South Carolina on October 26th next nine games, including the and Adelphi on October 27th. 

A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, October 18, 1991 

GAME INFO 
THE GAME: Notre Dame (5-1) at Air 
Force (6-1 ). 
TIME: 5:30 Mountain; 6:30 p.m. 
EST/South Bend; 7:30p.m. EDT. 
TV & RADIO: ESPN (Ron Franklin, Mike Gottfried, Adrian Karsten) will televise the game to a national cable audience. Host Creative Communications (Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung) will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel stations, including WNDU-TV in South Bend (12:30 a.m. EST Monday) and SportsChannel Chicago (8 a.m. EST Sunday) . The Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will broadcast the game to 280 stations across the country, including AM-1490 and AM-960 in South Bend and WMAO-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Falcon Stadium, which holds 55,533, is sold out. 
RANKING$: Notre Dame: NCSW 5th; 
AP 5th. Air Force: NCSW unranked; AP 
unranked. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 16-4, and has won five straight. Air Force won four straight meetings (1982-'85), but the Irish are 8-2 in Falcon Stadium. 
THE I.AST TIME: Notre Dame 57, Air Force 27. 
I.AST WEEK: Air Force sank Navy 46-6 in Annapolis. 
1991 SCHEDULES 
A man of opportunity 
Bumpas on proven path to success 

By DAVE McMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
Arkansas' nickname is the 'Land of 
Opportunity'. 
For Notre Dame defensive line 
coach Dick Bumpas, it couldn't have 
provided more opportunity. 
After attaining All-State status as a lineman at Southside High School in Fort Smith, Bumpas proceeded to the University of Arkansas, where he became a three-year starter and captain under Razorback legend Frank Broyles. In 1970, Bumpas was named Southwest Conference Player of the Year and also garnered All­America status as a defensive tackle. 
In his collegiate career, Bumpas posted over 200 tackles and led helped Arkansas to a 28-5 record. He continued professionally with the Memphis Southmen of World Football League, the Pittsburgh Steelers, and British Columbia of the Canadian Football League. 
After working as a graduate assistant under Broyles in 1972, Bumpas returned to Arkansas in 1977 in the same capacity, although Lou Holtz was in his first year with the Razorbacks. 
Two years ago the opportunity arose for Bumpas to rejoin Holtz, this time on the Notre Dame staff. 
"When they contacted me, I was at Clemson with Kenny Hatfield," said Bumpas. "With the reputation that Notre Dame has, it was something that I couldn't pass up." 
As the defensive line coach, Bumpas works in conjunction with 
Dick Bumpas 
Holtz and defensive coordinator Gary 
Darnell to determine the week's 
defensive schemes. 
Yet Bumpas wasn't unfamiliar with Darnell either. When Darnell was head coach at Tennessee Tech in 1983-84, Bumpas served as assistant head coach and defensive coor­dinator. 
Bumpas feels that his task is made easier with Holtz's direction. 
"The nice thing about Coach Holtz is that he's very explicit in what he expects," said Bumpas. "He sets the standards, so from my standpoint it's very obvious what he wants and there are no problems." 
After rejoining Holtz, Bumpas inherited a front line that included Chris Zorich, George "Boo" Williams, and Bob Dahl. Three returning starters made his first year with the Irish a little easier than it could have been. 
With the loss of Williams in the off­season, Bumpas entered the 1991
·/w:..;; 
season with a corps of players who 
had yet to be tested as starters. 
So far, he likes the progress of 
junior tackles Eric Jones and Junior 
Bryant, as well as sophomore nose 
tackle Bryant Young. 
..We started off with three guys who 
as a general rule were in a backup 
role," said Bumpas...We started off 
slow but we've shown improvement. 
We have to make sure that that 
continues." 
Bumpas hopes his coaching career 
continues as well. After coaching at 
the assistant level at six different 
colleges, Bumpas hopes the future 
holds a head coaching spot. 
Assistants under Holtz have 
historically proven to be on the road 
to higher positions. In five seasons 
with the Irish, Holtz has seen four 
assistants move directly on to college 
head coaching positions. 
.. I'm very happy and comfortable with what I'm doing right now, but I'd like to think that a head coaching position will be in the future," said Bumpas. 
The success of Holtz's assistants wasn't the sole reason for Bumpas' decision to come to Notre Dame, however. 
"I admired the type of program that Notre Dame has and wanted the opportunity to work with coach Holtz," said Bumpas. "He's a proven, successful head coach. You can learn an awful lot from a man like that." 
With the development of this year's defensive line, it seems as if Bumpas' players are learning an awful lot from him. 
The Observer!Nicole McGrath Thanks to the efforts of defensive line coach Dick Bumpas, Eric Jones (81 ), Troy Ridgely (99) and Junior Bryant (95) have matured into a feared front line. 
Irish Football '91 
Friday, October 18, 1991

page 2 
Irish face pesky wishbone 
Air Force offense challenges improving NO defense 
By RICH SZABO and Obasi Onuoha-have all against Michigan State) than in Sports Writer rushed for over 200 yards this any game last year. season, providing tremendous Inside linebacker Demetrius 
The Fighting Irish will be depth for the Air Force back­DuBose is terrorizing offenses, looking to make it six in a row field. having recorded 66 tackles this against Air Force when they However this irresistible season (four for losses), and take to the field at Falcon force that is the Air Force picked off one pass. Inside Stadium this Saturday. ground game will be meeting linebacker Pete Bereich and 
The Irish (5-1) defeated the up with an immovable outside backer Anthony Falcons (6-1) 57-27 last season, object-a confident Irish Peterson are also having and if their current explosive defense coming into its own. strong seasons for a young offense holds true to form, Twice this year, the Irish Irish defense that has only two expect Notre Dame to put some defense has permitted less net see FALCONS I page 4 big numbers on the board again yards (272 against Pitt, 273 this week. If it holds up, their current 40.2 scoring average will be a modern-era team record. 
i'-····
When the Irish have the ball, they can boast of some amazing ~)~~ ~ ":¥; ~ 

~

offensive firepower. The run­·"' ning game is churning up 299.2 yards a game, led by fullback Jerome Bettis (5 64 yds this season, 6.6 average) and tail­back Tony Brooks (470 yds, 6.0). 
Tailback Rodney Culver (199 yards), and quarterback Rick Mirer (175) bolster the running game as well, and freshman Ray Zellars (8.5 yards a carry} has made the most of limited playing time. 
However the Irish will be go­ing up against an Air Force run defense that has proven very stingy over the course of the season. The Falcons yield only 
122.3 yards a game on the ground, ranging from a high of 189 yards by BYU to a paltry -7 yards to Wyoming. 
Their disciplined unit, led by free safety Eldrick Hill (50 tackles, eight passes broken up) and outside linebacker Virgil Simpson (seven sacks), have tallied 28 tackles for losses and caused six fumbles. 
Should the Falcons stall Notre Dame's ground game, the Irish certainly have the tools to go to the air. Quarterback Rick Mirer, despite a sub-par performance Photo courtesy of Air Force Sports Information Department against Pittsburgh, is still hav­Backup quarterback Jarvis Baker gives Fisher DeBerry's Falcons a ing a strong season. He has capable replacement for starter Rob Perez. completed 60 of 103 passes for 938 yards, with 11 touchdowns and six interceptions. 
If he keeps up his pace, he 

• 

SE 
Tony Smith 
will break the Irish single sea­
Ray Griggs
son touchdown record of 16, 
held by three Irish passers, the 
Ll 
William Pollard 

Alex Armour 
most recent being Joe 

Jimmie Parker 

Theismann in 1970. 
Jl
Split end Tony Smith and 

OLB flanker Lake Dawson lead Notre 
Rod Stephan ,.; 
Jason Bowers
Dame in receptions (both with 
14), but they are not the only 
t"'!: Todd ~yKnapp Norman 

Jl targets to which Mirer can look. Tight end Derek Brown is having a strong season, snag­
FS

ging 12 receptions for 16.6 
DT

lt..·~onTaylor 
Eldrick Hill 
Chris James

yards a catch, and Bettis has 
FB ~"J! Tim Ruddy ~ Chris Connell
Jerome Bettis 
Dennis Scheel 

nabbed nine coming out of the 

Ryan Mihalko 
t.iL J1 •
backfield. 
Reggie Brooks ILB
Mirer himself has even caught 


J1

Mark Moody
a pass this season, as the Irish 
Mike Black
have opened their bag of tricks to keep opponents guessing. Air Force, meanwhile, is giving up a 
i<lf oal.. l
healthy 269.3 yards a game TB Rick Mirer NG
through the air, so the Irish 

FAL
Rodney Culver Paul Failla ..TG Matt Newby
should be able to exploit the 
Shanon Yates 

Willie Clark Kevin McDougal Mirko Jurkovic Rob Meizer
Falcon secondary. 
Stan LawrieTony Brooks George Poorman Mark Zataveski

On the other side of the coin, 

J1 
the Irish defense should expect 
t.iL 
ILB 
J1
Kette Dornbusch
the Falcons to run the ball pre­
Grant Johnson 
dominantly. The Falcons aver­
age 344.0 yards rushing and 
K 
It,.. ~tin Hallwill prove to be a tough test for 
Craig Hentrich 
~"J! Jordan Halter
an Irish defense that held Pitt 
to only 59 yards on the ground. 
DT


t.a. 
sc
Falcon quarterback Mike 

p Tony Cates Carlton McDonald 
FL

Perez is extremely effective 
Craig Hentrich Curtis Sutton Brian Watkins
running the option, and has 
Jim Sexton 
•
~~:~~w;:: ..TE J1scampered for 607 yards this 
Clint Johnson Derek Brown OLB
year. Besides Perez, four other 
lrv Smith Vergil Simpson 
Falcon backs-Jason Jones, 
t. iL Oscar McBride Jason Bowers J1
il
Wavne Young, Antoine Banks, 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Notre Dame 
Numerical Roster 
Name Pos Ht Wt 

1 Bakich. Huntley ILB 6-3 21 0 42 Becton, Lee RB 5-11 185 
2 Saddler. LeShaneCB 5-11 193 44 Flanigan. Jim* ILB 6-2 243 
2lanigan. Craig FB 5-10 187 45 McDonald, o:· OL8 6-4 240 
3 Miter, Rick*" QB 6·2 215 46 Ratigan,Brian•• ILB 6-5 226 
4 Graham, Tracy DB 5-11 183 47 Barich, Pete• ILB 6-1 225 
4 Poorman, George*• QB 6-1 t91 48 Farren, John lLB 5-11 194 
5 Culver, Rodney*""• TB 5-10 226 49 Peterson, A.* OLB EH 214 
5 Latli, Mike CB 5-11 200 50 Stec, Greg DT 6-3 235 
6 Bettis, Jerome'" FB 5-11 24 7 51 Tyner, Stuart OG 6-5 268 
7 Failla. Paul QB 6-3 185 52 Holden, Germa~ne OLB 6-4 240 
8 Johnson, Clint FL 5-8 179 54 Goheen, Justin ILB 6-3 220 
9 Burris, Jeff• FS &O 194 55 Lytle, Dean OLB 6-3 221 
10 Jarrett, Adrian• FL 6-0 194 56 Gibson, Oliver OLB 6-3 228 
11 Lozano, Rick TB . Mannelly, B. DT 6-4 279 
11 ~~::r&il:f 
. ILB 6-4 225 2 260


:::t'l:!lll.llllll~~'~'~,r~'~ ..c 6-­
::::;: 6-1 212 
Ol6-1 263 n Ol 6-5 250 QT6-4297 

~,1~~:::~~~~~~1~~~:11 H:iJJJ!!iJi:l~··~i~~~~~~~·rko "**OG 64 289 
Jl OG 6-4 280 
·~~c; 6~4 286 

2:3 Boyd, OT6-327l ·. · · 2:4 Stafford, . . . ..•. .·. •.. ·.·•·•·. rdan OT 6-7 296 24 Bergmann, Jon JLB ••··•· .;~·.i;;;···· i ))?I. \Ii~iJiJ DL 6·4 250 
25 Moore, LaRon RB 5,91 · · Oscar TE ·6-5 242 
26 Davis. Greg•,.• SS 6-0 204 81 Jones, Eric"* DT 6-6 250 . 
26 Marsh, Drew K &-0 191 82 Pollard, William .. SE 6-4 220·< 
28 Hentrich~ Craig*• KIP 6-1 196 83 Smith, Tony** SE 6-2 191 . 
29lane, Greg• CB 5-9 176 84 Smith. lrv.. TE 6-5 233 
30 Smith, Nick ... OLB 6-2 219 84 Baker, Jeff FL 5-1 t 174 
31 DuBose,D~... ILB.6-2 234 85 Hughes, Robert TE 6·6 246 
32 ClarK. Willie" TB 5-1 1 177 86 Brown, Derek TE 6-6 252 
32 Donahue+ JamesiLB 6-2 209 87 Dawson, Lake SE 6-l 200 
33 Covington. John*FS 6-1 202 88 Warren, Clarke FL 5-1 0 169 
33 Hollister. Chet FS 6-2 186 89 McGill, Karl* OLB 6-3 221 
34 Zellars, Ray RB 6-0 203 90 Hamilton, Brian DT 6-5 254 
34 Meter. Brian CB 5·9 173 91 Sauget, Rich TE 6-5 210 
35 Mihalko, Ryanm FB 6-2 232 92 Taliaferro, John OLB 6·4 225 
36 sample, Jeremy ILB 6-1 205 92 Bruening, Willie ILB 5-10 209 
36 Fuentes, David FB 5-9 198 93 Kordas, Jim OL 6-5 240 
37 Davis, Travis RB &0 180 94 Fleurima, ReggieDT 6-4 250 
38 Scianna, Randy ILB 6-0 224 9~ Bryant. Junior** DT 6-4 263 
39 Robinson, MarvinCB 5-9 173 96 deManigold, M.* DT &-4 266 
40 Brooks, Tony*** TB 6-2 223 97 Young, Bryant• DT 6·3 256 
41 Brooks, R&aaie• TB 5-B 200 98 Profit, J.D. DT 6-0 251 .. . C ad
•Indicates monogrM/I's won. The OEiserver/1\nn-.,ane onr o 
we 



IEAM SIATISIIQS ~Qll:e 1:1am~ 
FIRST DOWNS 142 Rushing 97 Passing 42 By Penalty 3 
RUSHING YARDS 1795 Yards gained 1865 Yards lost 70 Attempts 317 Avg. per rush 5.7 Avg. per game 299.2 Touchdowns 21 
PASSING YARDS 1041 Att/Compllnt 110/66/6 Avg. per catch 9.5 Avg. per game 173.5 Touchdowns 11 
TOTAL OFFENSE 2836 Total plays 427 Avg. per play 6.6 Avg. per game 472.7 
FUMBLES/LOST 1215 
PENALTIES/YARDS 30/238 
THIRD DOWN CONVS. 36/74 
TIME OF POSSESSION 180:25 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 
A series can be no more streaky than the one between the Air Force and Notre Dame. 
When the series began in 1964, the Irish were ranked sixth and facing an unranked Falcon team. Notre Dame beat the Falcons 34-7 to start a string of 11 straight victories that lasted until 1982. 
In the second season of head coach Gerry Faust, the 18th ranked Irish flew into Air Force and started a new streak for the Irish. The Air Force triumphed over a Dave Duerson led Notre Dame team, 30-17. 
The Falcons would prove to 
OLB 
Devon McDonald 
Marvin Robinson 
Oliver Gibson 
Shawn Wooden
J lGermaine Holden 

Jl 
~~~cJones 
~'If Dean Lytle 
.li ~ 
LG 
SLB 
FS 

Demetrius DuBose ~ Rob Nelson Brian Ratigan 
J. Covington Ron James Jeff Burris 
• iustin Goheen Chet Hollister 

LHB 

i -iL 

t.iL 
Jl
Obasi Onuoha 
NT 
Antoine Banks ~ Junior Bryant ~~Troy Ridgely 

l.l l.l .li~ 
' 
FB QB 

ss
Jason Jones Rob Perez Greg DavisChris Gray Jarvis Baker 
MLB LeShane Saddler 
Pere Bereich Jim Flanigan leremyNau 

Jl 
LE 
J 

K 
RT Bryant Young Joe Wood Tom Maurer Peter Rausch Tony Meyer Bernard Mannelly 
• M~
t.iL.. 

BCB 
p 
Tom Carter 

Jason Christ 
OLB Greg Lane TE Anthony Peterson Travis Davis David Mott K. McGill Peter Wilkie Nick Smith 
Jl 
t.iL.. Jl 
The Obeerver/Brendan Aeg.l 
be the proverbial thorn in Faust's side, as they would reel off four straight wins against the Faust-led Irish. The worst beating would occur in 1984, when a capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium witnessed a 21-7 mugging of the Irish. 
However the era of Holtz brought about a reversal of the losing trend. Notre Dame re­bounded in 1986, pounding the Falcons in a 31-3 victory in South Bend. Holtz concentrated on taking advantage of the size differential, and ran the ball repeatedly at the smaller Falcon defense. 
Since 1986 the Irish have dominated the series. The Holt.z-led Irish have not faltered 

FCB Rod Smith 
against the Falcons, as they 
have streaked to five straight 
victories. 
The closest affair was a 41-27 .... 
game in 1989, when the Irish 
came into Falcon Stadium 
ranked number one, and the 
Falcons were ranked 17th. 
Quarterback Dee Dowis used 
his arm, rather than the usual 
wishbone attack, to keep Air 
Force close. 
The 1990 matchup proved to 
be a much needed confidence 
booster for the Irish. Notre 
Dame was coming off an upset 
by Stanford, one in which the 
Irish saw a 24-7 lead evaporate 
into a 36-31 defeat. 
As against Stanford, Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead, scoring seventeen points in the first quarter. Both touchdowns came off punt blocks by Ryan Mihalko. 
The first punt was from the Air Force 14-yard line, when Mihalko burst through the line and clubbed punter Jason Christ's kick. Nick Smith cov­ered the ball on the 2-yard line and Dorsey Levens crashed over from two yards out to give the Irish a 10-0 lead. 
The other block left the Irish at the Falcon 48. The Irish capitalized again, raising their lead to 17-0. 
The Air Force came back and scored to start the second quarter to make it 17-7, but the Irish offense was just beginning to "take off." Rick Mirer con­nected with Raghib "Rocket" Ismail on a 52-yard pass play for another Notre Dame score. Overall, Ismail would catch six passes for 172 yards, a career high for him. 
The Irish would led 31-7 at the half, but visions of Stanford still Ungered in their heads. The Irish would not fold in this game, however. The special teams initiated the scoring again, as Lamar Guillory tack­led punter Christ in the end zone for a safety. 
The Irish would go on to post three more touchdowns and a field goal, to make the final margin 57-27. The 57 points were the most that a Notre Dame team had ever scored against the Air Force. 
RUSHING BETIIS, FB 
T. BROOKS, TB CULVER, TB MIRER, QB CLARK, TB BECTON,TB MIHALKO. FB ZELLARS, FB 
R. BROOKS, TB McDOUGAL, QB NDTOTALS: OPP. TOTALS: 
AI! 
85 78 41 34 
18 14 12 6 13 4 317 235 
~ 
566 476 209 196 115 71 56 51 51 30 1865 1015 

OEEQ~E~IS 
120 54 63 3 920 1015 95 235 3.9 153.3 10 1263 174/113/9 7.3 210.5 5 2183 409 5.3 363.8 10/5 26/222 32178 179:35 
l:lEEEf::ISI~E LEAOEBS  I  
DuBose, ILB  41  
R. SMITH, CB  26  
BERCICH, ILB  29  
PETERSON, OLB  16  
BURRIS, FS  21  
G. DAVIS,SS  20  
B. YOUNG, DT  21  
D. McOONALD, OLB  7  
COVINGTON, FS  16  
JONES,DT  12  
CARTER,CB  16  
FLANIGAN, ILB  9  
J. BRYANT, DT  10  
RIDGELY, DT  10  
W. CLARK, FS  11  
LANE, CB  8  
SADDLER. CB  4  
0. GIBSON, OLB  4  
RATIGAN, ILB  4  
HOLDEN,Ol.B  2  
TALIAFERRO, DT  3  
N. SMITH, OLB  3  
GOHEEN,ILB  2  
K. McGIU, OLB  2  

YJ. 
2 
6 10 21 1 14 0 0 5 0 70 95 
NEI 
564 
470 
199 
175 
114 57 56 51 46 30 1795 920 A':JSi 6.6 6.0 4.9 5.1 6.3 4.1 4.7 8.5 3.5 7.5 5.7 3.9 
m 
7 2 1 7 1 0 1 
0 
1 1 21 10 
I.G 40 57 27 46 19 28 15 28 18 13 
-
-
A 
25 16 11 17 9 10 7 19 9 11 5 8 4 2 0 2 3 2 1 2 0 0 1 0 

MIDSEASON STATISTICS 
llii 
1 2 0 0 2 1 0 
0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Irish Football '91 
Fnday.~ober18, 1991 page 3 
Irish hope to keep series streaky 
--------~~~~---~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------~~~~-----~-------------, 
Irish Football '91 
page 4 Friday.~ober18, 1991 
Hentrich is having an excellent year, booming punts at 41.8 yards a kick and not missing a continued from page 2 single extra point (32 for 32). Jeff Burris is coming on strongseniors, those being outside as the Irish punt returner, but linebacker Devon McDonald kickoff returns are still a weak and cornerback Rod Smith. point , and no one has yet to 
If they can force the Perez to step to the forefront for the go to the air, the Irish will be at Irish. an advantage, as Air Force is No longer are opposing 
not a strong passing team. teams afraid to kick deep to Perez has thrown only 45 the Irish now that the Rocket is passes this season (completing gone, and Notre Dame is aver­18), and the offense averages a aging just under 16 yards per mere 85.3 yards a game in the return. air. For the Falcons, punter
The receiving corps is led by Jason Christ is doing a tremen­Clarence Hopkins (six for 107 dous job, lofting punts at a yards) and Scott Hufford (five 43.6 yard average, while Joe for 234, two touchdowns), but Wood is the most accurate the Falcons will have to be in a kicker in Air Force history,deep hole before they depend having nailed 28 of 3 7 field on the pass. goals. Brian Watkins is running Should the occasion arise kickoffs and punts back at 20.9 
that the Falcons must pass, and 6.6 yards a clip, respec­Perez will be throwing against tively. an Irish secondary that already The Irish come into the game has more interceptions (eight) riding a four-game winning than it picked off all last sea­streak, during which they have son (five). The secondary is outscored opponents 178-63, giving up 210.5 yards a game and have climbed back into the in the air as compared to the top five in the country. Air team-record 267 yards last Force has won nine of its last year. ten games, and a win over 
Special teams play is about Notre Dame would likely push even for the two teams. Craig them into the Top 25. 
Falcons 


Sooners, Vols falter; Irish climb to fifth 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Florida State maintained its top position in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
The Seminoles, 33-20 winners over Virginia Tech on Saturday, received 25 of 26 first-place votes to hold off second-ranked Miami, 26-20 victors over Penn State. Washington received the other first-place vote and fin­ished third in the rankings. 
Michigan and Notre Dame both moved up two spots in the poll after convincing victories. The Wolverines jumped to fourth, while the Irish climbed to fifth. Florida, California, Tennessee, Nebraska and Oklahoma round out the top 10. 
East Carolina, by virtue of its 23-20 upset of Syracuse at the Carrier Dome, debuts in the poll this week at 25th position. The Pirates replace Mississippi, who dropped out of the rankings after losing to 18th-ranked Georgia 37-17. 


FALCONS TO WATCH 

Fisher DeBerry Rob Perez Vergll Simpson In his eighth season at the The senior quarterback, who A junior outside linebacker 
helm of the Falcons, DeBerry has carried 117 times for 607 from Houston, Tex., the 6-1, has taken teams to five bowl yards and seven touchdowns 210 Simpson has amassed 31 games and compiled an overall has emerged as a talented tackles. He also leads the team record of 61-31-1. Last season, wishbone quarterback. His in tackles for losses (six) and Air Force stunned Ohio State passing has improved over the sacks (seven). Simpson and the 23-11 in the Liberty Bowl. past two seasons, and he is 18-rest of the Air Force defense De Berry's teams run the 45 for 534 yards and five present problems for the Irish,
EASSI~~ Ali kMe fQI 
~ IIl llii 
MIRER, QB 103 60 .583 938 11 6 wishbone with precision, and, touchdowns this season. Under in that while they are somewhat HENTRICH, KIP 1 1 1.00 42 0 0 after beating Navy 46-6 last the direction of Perez, the outsized by the Irish offense, McDOUGAL, QB 4 3 .750 35 0 week, are in the running for Falcon offense is averaging 32.6 they are able to slant, stunt and
0 
T. BROOKS, TB 1 1 1.00 their third straight Commander points and 429.3 yards of total switch coverage patterns with
16 0 0 
FAILLA, QB 1 1 1.00 10 0 0 In Chiefs Trophy, unheard of in offense per game. relative ease. 
NO TOTALS: 110 66 .600 1041 11 6 service academy historv. 
OPP. TOTALS: 174 113 .649 1263 5 9 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS . . 
college football games. Records 

Dave AI Lesar Allison Patton Rich Kurz Anthony King Dave McMahon Rene Ferran 
are compiled as to how each 

Dleteman South Bend (with child Grant) Associate Sports Assistant Sports Associate Sports Associate Sports 
person does against the spread. 

Sports Editor Tribune Proprietor, Papa Editor Editor Editor Editor 
Home teams are in CAPS. 

50-36-4 49-37-4 John's Pizza 48-38-4 44-42-4 44-42-4 42-44-4 
48-38-4 Last week's guest: 6-8-1 
MICHIGAN 18.5 over Indiana Wolverines Hoosiers Wolverines Hoosiers Wolverines Hoosiers Hoosiers PENN ST 26 over Rutgers 

Scarlet Knights Nit1any Lions Nittany Lions Scarlet Knights Scarlet Knights Nittany Lions Scarlet KnightsOHIO ST 26.5 over N'wstern 
Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes BuckeyesSyracuse 2 over PITT Panthers Panthers 
Panthers Panthers Orange men Orangemen Panthers BAYLOR 4.5 over Tex. A&M Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears NEBRSKA 33 over Kans. St. Wildcats Corn huskers Corn huskers Cornhuskers Corn huskers Corn huskers Wildcats 
Georgia 16 over VANDY Bulldogs Commodores Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs OKLAHOMA 3 over Colo. Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners ALABAMA 2.5 over Tenn. Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Crimson Tide Volunteers Volunteers Crimson Tide 
lllini lllini Hawkeyes lllini lllini lllini lllini
IOWA 4.5 over Illinois Golden Bears Golden Bears Huskies Golden Bears Huskies Golden Bears Huskies
Wash. 14 over CALIFORNIA Longhorns Longhorns Razorbacks Longhorns Longhorns Razorbacks LonghornsTexas 9.5 over ARKANSAS Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun Devils Sun DevilsARIZ. ST. 1 0 over Wash. St. 

Badgers Boilermakers Boilermakers Badgers Badgers Badgers BadgersPURDUE 4.5 over Wisconsin 
Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Notre Dame 19 over A.F.A. 









