
VOL. XXIII NO. 128 TUESDAY , APRIL 16, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The road from hell 
AP Photo Kurdish refugees fleeing from Iraq walk in an endless line along the Haj Oramam pass towards Iran and Safety, Saturday. Hundreds of thousands of Kurds are heading for the Iranian border. 

Iraqi refugees fear return 
SAFWAN, Iraq (AP)-Iraqi police will handle law and order in part of the demilitarized border zone with Kuwait, and refugees said Monday that is tantamount to sending them to prison or worse. 
Several serious problems re­main unresolved as U.S. troops pull out of southern Iraq and a 
U.N. peacekeeping mission pre­pares to move into the buffer zone straddling the Iraq-Kuwait border. 
About 300 worried refugees blocked a road Monday with a sit-in outside their dusty tent camp, chanting slogans in English such as "Save The People of Iraq," and "Saddam, Sad dam, Same As Hitler." 
The U.S. Army is caring for more than 11,000 refugees at an abandoned construction company in Safwan. About 6,000 displaced people, mostly Iraqis, are at a Red Crescent camp about a mile away on the Kuwaiti side of the border. 
They are among 40,000 Iraqi refugees in Iraq, Kuwait and 
Saudi Arabia, and some say they will try to prevent the Americans from leaving Safwan. 
"We will sleep in front of the American trucks," said Abu Nathal, a history teacher from Nassiriya. "Only the Americans can protect us from Saddam Hussein." 
The tens of thousands of U.S. troops still in southern Iraq are being withdrawn rapidly through the desert now that a formal Gulf War cease-fire is in place. 
Nearly half the 540,000 American troops have left the theater, the U.S. Central Command said, including the 17,000 troops of the 1st Infantry Division of the VII Corps, which this week began rolling from the Euphrates River south toward Saudi Arabia. 
Some U.S. soldiers will re­main temporarily with the refugees in the demilitarized zone until the U.N. Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission, a lightly armed 1,440-person peace­keeping contingent, is in place. 
The DMZ stretches six miles into Iraq, and three miles into Kuwait along 120 miles of bor­der. 
The head of the mission, Austrian Gen. Gunther Greindl, arrived Saturday in Kuwait, where he met with government officials be fore traveling to Baghdad, on Monday for similar discussions. 
But U.N. peacekeepers are not expected to arrive in Kuwait until later this week, and it would appear their deployment on the border is still one to two weeks away. U.N. officials have refused to give any timetable. 
Once in place, the peacekeep­ers have a strict and limited mandate to observe and "to in­terfere as little as possible" in the affairs of lraq and Kuwait, said Joachim Hutter, the U.N. delegation's acting spokesman. 

Hesburgh sees vision of a new world order 
By MEG SHUFF of One Hundred Years of News Writer Catholic Social Thought. Recent events concerning the invasion of Kuwait are unique, 
Father Theodore llesburgh. therefore, the new world order, President Emeritus, believes the which was impossible in the odds are bad at the moment. past, is unique to our times, but there is a glimmer of hope said Hesburgh. for a new world order in the futur(~. llowP.ver, said Hes­"There comes a time when burgh, the hope needs defini­billions (of people) suffering tion in seeking an end to war scream stop...l think now is the once and for all. time and that is why President 
llesburgh was one among Bush speaks of this new world numerous scholars that dis­order." cussed topics concerning the In his lecture, "Observations current social rolf! of the on a Possible New World Catholic Church on the first day Order," Hesburgh said that the 
University of 
100 

YEARS OF CATHOLIC SOCIAL THOUGHT 
Notre Dame 1 8 91 -1 9 91 
heart of the social question is world order especially in re­gards to security and world peace. 
"We have had scores of wars, all bloody and filled with deaths, despite the fact that we have the United Nations and a peace will have to back up their Security Council." plea. 

Consequently, he said that It is important to "keep the there must be four major read­United States from becoming justments within the organiza­the police force of the tion of the United Nations as world ... The world order must well as the Security Council be­be world wide," said Hesburgh fore the development of this explaining his third readjust­new world order is possible. ment strategy. 
First, the current veto power Finally, the reorganization of that each "Super Power" holds these councils must involve se­should be eliminated and re­vere cuts in military spending. placed by a two-thirds vote on They should insist on the elimi­the part of the Security Council. nation of all chemical, biologi­
cal, and toxic attacks, he said. 

Second. the membership of The time has come to declare the Security Council should be war obsolete as the solver of changed so that all who vote for problems. 
Saint Mary's makes May plans 
Special to The Observer 
Writer and commentator Sis­ter .loan Chittister will address the 1991 graduating class of Saint Mary's College at the col­lege's 144th annual com­mencement Saturday, May 1R. 
The College will present honorary degrees to Bishop .John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend and to Sistt~r Alice Gallin, executive di­rector of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universi­ties. 
Saint Mary's will award its Prnsident's Medal for the com­munity service and contribu­tions to the life of the College to Mary Fran Meekison of Naple­ton, Ohio. Special recognition will be given to the Congrega­tion of the Sisters of the Holy Cross for its 150 years of commitment to the field of edu­cation. 
Other events on the com­mencl~ment weekend schedule indude the annual pinning cer­emony for thn nursing gradu­ates Friday May. 17 at 1 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. The ·ceremony marks thesn graduates' entry into the nursing profession. 
Also on the 17th, a baccalau­reate Mass will be celebrated at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility, with Archbishop D'Arcy as the presider and homilist. 
Chittister, a former prioress of the Bendictine Sisters of Erie, Pennsylvania, has been an adjunct professor and writer-in­residence at Saint Mary's during the spring semester. 
Chittister is the author of seven books on religious life, including "Climbing Along the Cutting Edge: An Analysis of Change in Religious Life," "Women, Ministry and Church" and "Winds of Change." Her latest work, "Distilled From the Daily," is forthcoming from Harper & Row. 
Chittister is a past president of the Conference of American Benedictine Prioresses and the Leadership Conference of Women Religious. She holds honorary degrees from three institutions, including Saint Mary's, which presented her with an honorary of humanities doctorate in 1989. 
D'Arcy will receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree from Saint Mary's. He has served the Catholk church for more than 30 years, first as a parish priest in his native Massachusetts, then as auxil­iary bishop of Boston and re­gional bishop of the northern Boston Archdiocese. He was named bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend in 1985. 
While auxiliary bishop, he founded an office of spiritual development for the Boston Diocese. The office directed programs for the clergy and laity, including spiritual growth programs for high school and college students. 
Since his appointment to the Fort Wayne-South Bend Dio­cese, D'Arcy has instituted simi­lar programs of spiritual de­velopment, along with weekly televised Masses and the estab­lishment of a chancery office in South Bend to make diocesan services more accessible to in­dividuals and parishes in the northwestern part of the dio­cese. 
D'Arcy also has been active in the area of priestly forma­tion. In 1979, as chair of a New England committee of bishops, he helped write a pioneering letter on the screening and di­rection of priests. The letter remains a model throughout the world. 
Gallin also will receive an honorary doctor of humanities 
see SMC/page 6 

Man arrested at Alumni 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Editor-in-Chief 
An incident in Alumni Hall Monday night led to the arrest of a man on charges of tres­passing and battery. said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
The incident occurred at 
6:40 p.m. when two Alumni residents returned from dinner at South Dining Hall. One of the men went to the washroom, while his roommate returned to their room. When the student en­tered his room, he found a man he did not recognize there. 
Hurley said the man told the student he knew his roommate and was waiting for him to re­turn. The student then left the room to find his roommate and question him about the man. 
When the students returned to their room, they saw the man exiting the dorm. At this point they notice the man is carrying a bag so they follow him down an Alumni hallway to find out who is he and what he is carrying in the bag, Hurley said. 
The two students met up 
with the man at the southwest door of Alumni (closest to Dillon Hall). The man shoved the student and a scuffle resulted which caused the men to go outside of the dorm, said Hurley. 
Then the man threw a punch at one of the students which the student was able to duck. The man continued to try to punch the student. but he was able to avoid the hits. 
The student did not require medical help, Hurley said. 

The students were able to get a hold of the bag, said Hurley. They did not, however. see anything from their room inside the bag. 
At this point Security had been contacted and arrived on the scene to apprehend the suspect with the aid of the student. 
The man, a 29 year-old,·, white male, was arrested and charged with trespassing and battery, Hurley said. He is a: transient and is apparently traveling through the United States. 
The man is being held at the St. Joseph County jail, accord­ing to Hurley. 

Tuesday, April 16, 1991
page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 



FORECAST: 
Mostly sunny and a



No black and 
little warmer today with the highs in the lower to middle 60s and lows in the

white answer to 
middle 50s. 
TEMPERATURES:

co-ed situation 
City H l 
Athens 70 50 Atlanta 80 66
Black and white. That's 

Boston 51 42 Chicago 62 44 Dallas-Ft.Worth 81 51 
the way everyone wants 
the world. This attitude 

Denver 69 34 
has become prevalent in 

Detrott 66 50 Honolulu 81 69
the recent discussion 

Houston 81 58
concerning co-ed housing. 

Indianapolis 63 51 London 55 43 Los Angeles 67 56 
I've heard those against 
the idea claiming that 

Madrid 52 20
Jay Hosler 

Mlam Beach 82 7 4 Moscow 64 45
proponents seek co-ed 

housing because they're Cartoonist 
New Orleans 81 66 New York 50 43 Paris 64 45
horny. They make it sound ------­
as if cohabitation equals 

Philadephla 53 45
lust-fest. 

Portland, Ore. 57 42 Rome 68 41
Of course, advocates promise all of us that 
St. Louis 72 50 
as soon as we get men and women living 
San Francisco 58 48 South Bend 71 55 Tokyo 68 55
together all the problems between the sexes 
will gradually evaporate. We will all begin to 
Washington, D.C 57 4 7 
grow together in mutual respect and harmony forever and ever. For them things will not get better unless we go co-ed tomorrow. 
Damned if you do and damned if you don't. By someone or the other. So what's the answer? Well, take it from someone who lived in a co-ed dorm as an 
TODAY AT AGLANCE
undergrad: it's no big deal. First of all, I was never a member of the kind of sex-stravaganda that co-ed housing 
West Europe in a free market system.

WORLD 
seems to evoke in the minds of those opposed. 
The London-based bank will function as both a de­In fact, the close proximity of the opposite sex 
Sanctions lifted against South Africa velopment and a commercial lending institution. It plans generally places you in a position (no, not the 
.LUXEMBOURG -The European Community today to use 60 percent of its $12 billion in capital to finance missionary one) of becoming a good friend 
agreed to lift its last remaining sanctions against South private sector projects and the rest to the public sector. rather than a romantic interest. Bull sessions 
Africa, ending bans on importing iron, steel and gold After 18 months of planning, the bank can begin lending that last till the wee hours of the morning 
coins to reward the country for moving to dismantle money to rebuild the economies of Eastern European work just as well for co-ed groups as they do 
apartheid. Italian and German officials said the decision countries committed to democracy. for those that are unisex. 
was made during a meeting of foreign ministers of the It is undeniable that when men and women 
12-nation trading bloc. The EC will continue to observe NATIONAL are in such close proximity an occasion may 
the U.N. ban on sports events with South Africa as well arise when two individuals may find 
as U.N. embargoes on arms and crude oil from the themselves attracted to each other. However, 
country.ln South Africa, President F.W. de Klerk's office NASA sets ~ril 23 launch date if the moral education at Notre Dame and the 
issued a statement calling the move "positive and most moral fiber of the average student is so 
encouraging." superior to those at other institutions, then even a situation like this will be trivial to the 
Baker due to return to Middle East 
.JERUSALEM -Foreign Minister David Levy said today that Secretary of The other side of the argument is just as 
strong willed ND student. Right? 
State James Baker would return in a extreme. Co-ed housing is not the cure all for 
few days for a new round of Middle East male/female relationships on this campus. 
diplomacy, and he hailed this as a "good There were misunderstandings and 
sign" for peace efforts. Israeli news misconceptions about men and women at my 
reports said Baker was expected as undergraduate institution. 
early as this weekend, for his third trip Being in this particular type of housing 
in five weeks, in a further attempt to situation also didn't improve my social life. I 


organize a regional conference on Arab-Israeli peace. didn't have more dates before, during or after 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said today, and I never dated anyone in my dorm. In 
"There's a possibility he'll go back." Baker would visit short, I don't think that co-ed housing is going 
several countries if he does go, but the timing is not yet 

caurt lets stand some gun regylatjons 
certain, Fitzwater said. tionships between males and females on this 
to do doodly-squat for the terminally ill rela­
He said "important understandings were reached," campus. 
during Baker's two previous trips to Israel, apparently So, what's the answer? Well to begin with, 
referring to preliminary agreement reached to convene a the co-ed option should be available to 
regional peace conference. students who are interested. Those students, however, should enter the situation with the 

Pf-Euro~ean Bank inaugurated 
proper expectations. The dating scene on campus won't reverse itself dramatically. And sexism and hyper-sensitivity to "sexism" won't go away unless people want them to go away. 
The fact is, members of an intellectual 


OF INTEREST
community shouldn't need co-ed housing to abandon sexism and members of a truly moral community shouldn't be afraid of it. 
•off-campus seniors can pick up their Senior Formal •The Gay and Lesbian group will be meeting tonight bids today from 3-6 p.m. in the Notre Dame Senior Class to see the movie "My Beautiful Laundrette" at the Snite. 
Office or tomorrow from 12-3 p.m. in the Saint Mary's off­For more information, call Mike at 237-0788 or Michael
The views expressed in the inside column 
campus lounge. Tuxedo pick-up will take place from 3-6 at 237-1864.
are those of the author and not necessarily 
p.m. in Theodore's. 
those ofthe Observer. 

•Antostal mud volleyball schedules will be posted in •Notre Dame Pre-Law Society will conduct a the Student Union Board Office window Tuesday night. All general meeting Wednesday in Room 204 O'Shaughnessy teams are responsible for finding out when they play. Hall at 7:30p.m. 
Today's Staff: 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Systems
News 
Paul FromngMeredith McCullough 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April15, 1991
Patrick Barth 


• In 1918: The Federal Food Board began prosecuting 
Ann Mane Hartman 

grocers who refuse to label food. 
Graphics 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX
Sports 

• In 1926: German unemployed were granted
Brendan Regan Dave McMahon 

161.81 Million 208.59 ~ .51 Scoreboard· 
unemployment benefits for 39 weeks. 
S&P COMPOSITE
Circulation
MaiK McGrath 

• In 1956: Bulgarian Premier Chervenkov was ousted in
Kathleen O'Conner 

381.19 11-.79 
John O'Brian 

an anti-Stalin drive. 
Production 



DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
Alison Cocks Wendy Cunmngham 

• In 1964: German Geraldine Mock became the first
2,933.17 11 12.38
Ltsa Bourdon 

woman to complete a solo round-world flight. 
• In 1973: Martha Mitchell called Richard Nixon's claim that he and John Mitchell didn't meet April 4th a "god­

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD ..ij-$1.19to $361.99/oz. 
blessed lie." 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The 
• One year ago: Gelindo Bordin of Italy and Rosa Mota
SILVER {f 0.30¢ to $3.980/oz. 
Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
of Portugal won the Boston Marathon. 
nghts are reserved. 

Casaroli parallels Church and world events 
University of 
100 

• 
YEARS OF CATHOLIC SOCIAL ~ 
THOUGHT 

Notre Dame 
1 8 91 -1 9 91 

By DAVID ZIRINGER 
News Writer 
The evolution of interdepen­d!lnce and a common good is what has united the world for social justice, according to Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, former Secretary of State, Vat­ican. 
Casaroli provided the keynote address in the symposium "One llundred Years of Catholic So­cial Thought," being presented from April 14-17 at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The symposium, said Associ­ate Provost Oliver Williams, is meant to "commemorate the 
5H DIC.I( 
D(IV£ 

one-hundredth anniversary of Catholic social teaching." In 1891, the Catholic Church pub­lished its rirst encyclical "to shed the light of the Gospel on problems of social and eco­nomic life," said Casaroli. 
He then traced the parallel paths of the Church and world events leading to the recogni­tion of need for and the de­mand for an authority "capable of acting effectively on a worldwide level," he said. 
"The heart of Christian social teaching," Casaroli said, "is the human person...(with) the fam­ily ... who is prior in regard to the State and collectivity." The State, then, must "provide for the attainment of the 'common good' through the prohibition of abuses." 
World War II, and what Pope John XXIII said was the failure of individual national leaders, emphasized the interdepen­dence of individuals and States on others. The necessity of a universal public good, said the Pope, further displayed the 

(_ 

Don't drink and drive 
" Public serv1ce message from The Observer 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
C.PC{}IIIV71//v'J:J $M(JJ(Jttf$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River ~ 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
-

1671 Riverside Drive ­CALL 233-2212 
need for a unified international body, said Casaroli. Thus was the United Nations born, said Casaroli. 
"For the first time in its long history, mankind has set up a system... which is capable of confronting... all the problems associated with peace and de­velopment," Casaroli said. 
He also noted the correspon­dence between the UN's goals "and the responsibilities which Christian social doctrine at­tributes to the international community." 
Several of the UN's agencies, such as the United Nations Children's Fund, are instrumen­tal in achieving Christian social goals in the world, said Casaroli. For example, "the Church...(has) always sensed that the aims of the United Na­tions Organization for Educa­tion, Science, and Culture are congenial to her own," he said. 
However, according to Casaroli, in light of the Gulf War and what Pope John Paul II called "the widening of the gap between... (the) developed North and the developing South." 
Casaroli said the realization of the UN ideal "still seems far away." 
Other issues he listed as yet unresolved by the UN include economic tyranny by a few, world debt, and ecological problems. 
Casaroli wanted his "final word to be one of trust and hope," but warned that "institutions which claim to serve humanity should not for­get the real people involved." 
Agostino Cardinal Casaroli was born in 1914, has visited many nations to bring them to­gether with the Vatican, and was the Secretary of State, Vatican, from 1979-90, said Williams. 
Casaroli's speech, as is the four day symposium, was spon­sored by the University and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Busi­ness. 
Copeland discusses changing social thought 
By FRANK RIVERA 
Assistant News Editor 

Catholic social thought is changing to meet "the intellec­tual, moral and religious chal­lenges" of the time, according to Sister M. Shawn Copeland, assistant professor of theology and black studies in the Yale Divinity School at Yale Univer­sity, in her lecture Monday. 
Copeland divided her lecture into three parts. 
The first part discussed the dilemmas which face Catholic social thought today, followed by a discussion on how the problems arise and finally, what functions Catholic social thought can perform in realiz­ing a "common good." 
Among the dilemmas faced, racism is not a "peculiar" problem in the United States, but has been a "pernicious and persistent" one, said Copeland. 
"Racism oversaw the Euro­pean discovery, colonization and destruction of North America," said Copeland. "It oversaw the American war for independence. It has been pre­sent and active in foreign and domestic policy." 
Secondly, problems can arise through a social contract thought, according to Copeland, in which some some people believe land is owed to them. Through this aggression arises some people believing they are inherently superior to another people, resulting in the "denial of truth, of dignity and of human being." 
Finally, added Copeland, modern Catholic thought could be changed to adapt to the cur­reot "social order" through "open-mindedness and open­heartedness," but, the main problem lies in defining the common good in most "contemporary thought." 
Copeland's lecture was part of the "100 Years of Catholic Social Thought" conference sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
··················~·it·LJic:J"~"rliif""~r:l·i<:>r:i"""~<:)·~ir<:f"""""""""""""""""": 
Presents A Lecture· 






Towards Building a 
• Family Rights Movement 
by Philip F. Lawler 
Director of public affairs for the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights 
Mr. Lawler is the author of four books, including The Ultimate Weapon (a study of the American Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter on nuclear weapons) and Coughing in Ink (a critique of ~merican higher education). He is the editor of Justice and War in the Nuclear Age, and Amencan Capitalism:The Catholic Challenge. 
Thursday, April18 8:00pm 
Galvin Life Science Bldg. Auditorium 
(between Comp/Math & Stadium)
• 
SERV hosts special mass 
Special to The Observer 
The student organization Students Encouraging Religious Vocations (SERV) will sponsor a special Mass for vocations Sunday, April 21 at 8 p.m. in the Sorin Hall chapel in con­junction with the World Day of Prayer for Vocations. 
Father Stephen Newton, rec­tor of Sorin Hall and religious adviser to SERV, will be the cel­ebrant of the Mass. Members of SERV will assist in the Mass, which will include a special rite of presentation. 
SERV, which is in its first year of existence as an organization, sponsors a year-round program called "Vocation Vigil," which asks Notre Dame students to pray one hour each month for vocations to the priesthood and the religious life. 

Security Beat 
ITHl...~uAi,APRIL 11 
12:18 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported that she had cash stolen from her dorm room. 
8:26 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported that someone had broken Into his car while It was parked in the A-9 lot. His radar detector was missing. 
8:45 p.m. Security assisted a resident of Pasquerilla East to St. Joseph's Medical Center after suffering a knee Injury while playing soccer on Stepan field. 
8:47 p.m. Security assisted a resident of Breen Phillips to St. Joseph's Medical Center after It was reported that she was suffering from severe back pains. 
10:52 p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported that his bike was stolen from outside of his dorm room. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 12 
3:40 a.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a report that a male suspect was causing adisturbance In the Siegfried Hall lobby. Security found the suspect and escorted him back to his resident hall. 
11 
:00 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of her A·1 0 decal from her vehicle. 

11 
:26 a.m. Notre Dame Security reported the discovery of vandalism to four vehicles In the D-2 lot. The rear taillights had been broken on all the vehicles. One vehicle alsO had the rear-view mirror broken off. 


12:28 p.m. A visitor to the University reported that a dealer plate was stolen from his car while II was parked in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center lot on March 10, 199t. 
2 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of the rear spoiler from his car while it was parked In the B-1 lot. 
3:14 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a report of a shoplifter at the Hammes bookstore. The suspect attempted to leave the store without paying for a compact disc. 
3:45 p.m. Two residents of Flenner Hall reported the theft of money from their unlocked dorm room. 
10:28 p.m. Notre Dame Security questioned a male suspect on Angela Blvd. The suspect was intoxicated andlwu taken Into CU$tody and released to his 
'-CtOr. 
8:00 p.m. Two residents of Morrl•ey ~ reported the theft of cash and a class I"'.!' from their unlocked dorm rooms. 
10:10 p.m. A Notre Dame employee ~the theft of his jacket from Gate 6 of the JACC . 
SATUROAV,APRIL 13 
1:11 Lm. A visitor to the University was escorted to St. Joseph's Medical Center llfter a speaker had fallen off a shelf and hit her in the head. 
4:55a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped a vehicle that had Illegally driven onto campus. Security cited the driver and escorted him off campus. 
3:23 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a report of a student having a heart attack in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. The student was treated at the scene for chest pains and then transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center by South Bend Fire Department medics. 
4:40 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism to her car while it had been parked in the B-1 lot. The victim reported the discovery of several deep marks on the entire passenger side of her car. 
6:35 p.m. A Domino's Pizza employee reported the theft of two pizzas from his vehicle while It was parked at the rear of St. Edward's Hall. 

-------~-------------------------~-­
page 4 1ne uoserver I U~:SUay, 1"\f.JIII I 0 1 I~~ I 


Kurds relocated within Turkey 
ISIKVEREN, Turkey (AP) ­Turkey on Monday began mov­ing thousands of ill and starving Iraqi Kurds from this mountainous border settlement to camps farther inside Turkey where they will be easier to feed and shelter. 
At a squalid Iranian refugee camp, hundreds of Kurdish men said they were returning to Iraq to fight. 
But along Iraq's long borders with Iran and Turkey, thou­sands of uprooted people con­tinued to stream out of the troubled country. 
Turkish official said the number of refugees in their country stood at 500,000 and could soon reach 700,000. Close to one million have crossed into Iran or were en route. 
State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said nearly 400,000 Iraqis have fled to Turkey and another 400,000 are reported to be across the border. 
She said from 400 to 1,000 refugees were dying each day in the Turkish border region, and the toll was increasing under the harsh conditions along the mountainous border. 
Dia Sindi, a 17 -year old Kurd in Isikveren, a tent city of 160,000 refugees, said she missed her homeland but would not return any time soon. 
"If they kill Saddam I will go back," she said. 
Sindi was among 2,100 refugees moved down from this 7,200-foot plateau to a new camp near the township of Silopi, 36 miles inside Turkey. The new camp will have water, electricity and medical supplies. The tent settlement will have a 400-bed hospital, 64 doctors and 129 medical personnel, Health Minister Halil Sivgin said. 
The order to move the refugees to new bases repre­sented a major policy shift for President Turgut Ozal's gov­ernment, which previously had kept the refugees in the moun­tains, saying it could not deal with the influx. 
Turkey has often suppressed its own sizeable Kurdish minor­ity, even banning public use of the Kurdish language, and bat­tled Kurdish rebels for years. At the same time, it has sheltered an estimated 60,000 Kurds since they fled Iraq in 1988. 
The Istanbul newspaper Hur­riyet said Turkey decided to al­low the refugees deeper into the country after President Bush assured Ozai the refugees would return to Iraq when Saddam Hussein's government collapsed. 
Turkish officials stressed that the resettlement was tem­porary. 

Food aid arrives 
AP Photo A young Kurdish girl bolts down some bread shortly after it was dis­tributed by the Iranians in the Schiller Valley, Sunday. 
Campus Ministry and You 
FOR SENIORS ONLY 
Well, seniors, it's time for other people to begin to sum up for you your four years at 
Notre Dame and to begin to tell you some things about yourselves you will need to 
know as you face your future. 
For obvious reasons, the thrust of this column will have more to do with issues of 
faith than with social or athletic ones. But, at least this time, that thrust will be an 
attempt to reflect with you on the connections between the faith experiences of your 
college years and an ongoing commitment to making the world a better place. 
You seem aware of connections between faith and action. 
According to a recent survey, 67% of you have been involved in some service group 
or activity during your undergraduate years, and 64% of you attend church 
regularly. 
HOWEVER: Only 25% of you agree that to be a fully committed Christian, one must be involved in social justice work. The study also suggests that you are more interested in personal goals than in helping others in difficulty. If we were into berating ourselves, those of us you paid for your Catholic education would have to say we haven't really done our jobs. 
There are certain things we should have taught you, and made sure you learned. Included on the list would be such things as: Love God above all; love your neighbor as you love yourself; love your enemies; do good to those who persecute you; if someone slaps you on one cheek, let them slap the other, too; if anyone asks for your coat, give the rest of your clothing, too; sell everything you own and give the money to the poor. 
Didn't learn all that yet? It's not too late. Men and women who graduate from Notre Dame and other places of higher education with which the Congregation of Holy Cross is involved are invited to consider association with the Congregation, by becoming Holy Cross Associates. 
Such a postgraduate formation and volunteer program is not, at best, a time to fill doing good before embarking on a major career or further academic course, but can well be a time to continue an education and experience in making one's own faith commitment much more real and solid. 
The Holy Cross Associates program offers significant experience of service and communal living to men and women who have or are forming firm convictions about the integration of faith and their lives. Ideal candidates are willing and eager to enter a transforming experience, where they receive at least as much as they give. Associates spend one year living a common life with others in humble, but adequate circumstances and from that experience learn their place in the world at large, where they can continue to serve and minister as full members of the community Church, no matter what their circumstances. 
Seniors in the process of trying to figure out what to do for the next year need not apply. Those still trying to figure out what to do with the rest of their lives are most welcome to. Just drop by the CSC or the office at Moreau Seminary and turn in an application by Aprill7. 
And those of you who are not Seniors and cheated by reading this "Seniors Only'' column, feel free to keep thinking about it until you do qualify! 


0MPUS 
Ml 


Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, April 20 

5:00 pm Fr. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April21 

10:00 am Fr. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Thomas Zurcher, C.S.C 



Tuesday, April 16, 1991 

Red Smith Scholarship awarded 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame juniors John O'Brien and .lonPaul Potts have been selected as the 1991 win­ners of the Hed Smith Writing Scholarships. 
The annual scholarships are presented by the American Studies department in honor of Notre Dame alumnus and famed sportswriter Red Smith. Two students are recognized each year for demonstrating excellence in classroom writing in the American Studies de­partment. 
"It's a great honor," said Potts. a resident of Grace llall. "Anytime you can get Red Smith's name associated with your name, it's a bonus." 
Potts, sports editor of NO's Scholastic magazine, plans to pursue journalism upon his graduation. This summer he will serve as an intern at the Patriot Ledger of Boston, Mass., for thfl second consecutive year. 
O'Brien, of Morrissey Hall, said, "it's an honor to be con­sidered among the fine field of American Studies majors, along with Jon Paul." 
Currently Accent Editor of The Observer, O'Brien has served as managing nditor and assistant news editor at the newspaper. "I hope my writing is one-tenth as good as Hed Smith's was," O'Brien said. 
A committne of American Studies representatives nomi­nated candidates and selected thn winners of the scholarship. 
Potts. who will receive a $4000 scholarship. said that the amount of his scholarship was dependent on his financial ntHld. O'Brien has not yet been notified of the amount of his award. 

\\£ GO WOJttt DlomB•~mERimBURG
1APlAY BY Rt,RTIN>T RIUX'IIT IMGUIH VERIION BY llRI(' RIWI'I>t:\'  Op ~""''41!JJhIIi(!Ill'  
WED., APRIL 24-SAT., APRIL 27 8:1 0PM  
SuN., APRIL 28 3:10PM  

WASHINGTON HALL 1990-91 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
R~rved Selm $7, Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available on Wed., Thurs. and Sun. fKkets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student (enter information desk. For Master(ard and v:~~ orders call (219) 239-8128 
-
lllt:IUU:St:IIVt:ll 


Having a blast 
AP Photo 

Jessica Correll, 9, and her brother Jonathan, 10, check out Beretta handguns at the National Riffle As­sociation's convention Sunday in San Antonio. Nearly 20,000 NRA members attended the convention. 
By SARAH VOIGT News Writer 
Three Notre Dame professors who read selections from their varied works revealed three different literary voices at the first annual Meet the Authors luncheon Monday. 
Professor of English Sonia Gernes recited poems colored by her female perspective and often inspired by her childhood in rural midwestern America. 
Gernes read from her two po­etry collections published by the University Press, "Brief Lives" and "Women at Forty." The subjects of her poetry varied from a Japanese 

immigrant  woman's  
homesickness  to  her  own  
grandmother's  stubborn  
unwillingness to die.  

Professor of Philosopher Ralph Mcinerny, creator of the characters in the Father Dowl­ing mystery series, read a funny excerpt from his new novel entitled "The Search Commit­tee." The humor stemmed from the conflict between a sarcastic old professor and a naive young student. 
Thomas Stritch, professor emeritus of American studies, shared passages from the book of his memoirs to be published by the University of Notre Dame Press this Fall. 
Stritch's autobiography begins with memories of his childhood in Nashville, Tennessee. The epilogue includes his opinions and reflections about the Notre Dame campus where he has lived and worked since he enrolled as a freshman in 1930. 
The Meet the Authors lun­cheon was sponsored by Notre Dame's Friends of the Library. James Carroll, President of the Friends of the Library, said that he would like to repeat the luncheon with readings from other University authors as well as from writers from the surrounding communities. 
When Gernes began teaching at Notre Dame in 1975, she 
JUNIORS 
Help make your Senior year the best! 
Get involved with the Senior Class Government! 
Applications for commissioners and on & off campus reps. available at LaFortune 
taught predominantly male classes as the coeducation pro­cess was in its early painful stages. 
Sixteen years later she is now editing a volume of women's poetry with James Walton in honor of The Year of Women. "I write about women's needs, joys, triumphs and strivings since women's stories are not recorded in the annals of wars and kingdoms," she said. 
Mcinerny, who Stritch re­ferred to as "the poor man's John Updike," has been a pro­lific faculty member since 1955. He said that the popular Father Dowling series based on his characters is now being tele­vised in England, Austria and Italy. 
His novel "The Search Com­mittee" ends a trilogy begun with his first novel in 1967. When the young student re­porter in his latest novel asks the professor what he teaches, he responds "Idiots, mostly." 
Stritch is the author of a wide range of scholarly articles and books, including "The Catholic Church in Tennessee." At the end of his autobiography he reflected on the majestic elms and maples that dot the cam­pus. Lest the audience be mis­lead, he added, "I am not a tree snob." 
page 5 
Mozart sonata to be presented 
Special to The Observer 
William Cerny, professor of music at the University of Notre Dame, will present a a commemorative all-Mozart sonata faculty piano recital at 8 
p.m. Thursday April 18 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Prior to joining the Notre 
Dame faculty in 1972 as chair­
man of the department of mu­
sic, a post he left n 1981, Cerny 
served 13 years on the faculty 
of the Eastman School of Mu­
sic. 
As a young performer, he 
won the highest award given 
by the Music Education League 
of New York and the National 
Teachers Guild, appearing sev­
eral times as soloist with the 
Little Orchestra Society of New 
York, under the baton of 
Thomas Scherman. 
After completing his under­
graduate studies at Yale, where 
he was Phi Beta Kappa and 
graduated magna cum laude, 
he worked for five years be­
tween 1954 and 1959 as a pro­
fessional accompanist out of 
New York City, touring 
throughout the United States 
with such artists as cellist Aldo 
Parisot, international concert 
comedienne Anna Russell, pan­
tomimist Agna Enters, and the 
Columbia Artists' male concert 
quartet The Hevelers. His pro­
fessional work in New York City 
also included accompanying 
numerous artists in Town Hall 
recitals. 
At Eastman he taught several courses in history, in addition to teaching piano. During this time he remained active as a public performer. 
From 1963 on he held dual associate professors rank, one in humanities and one in music literature. In 1968, he devel­oped his "Explorations into Pi­ano Literature" for presenta­tion to college and university audiences throughout the country. 
An outgrowth of these con­certs was his series of weekly radio programs broadcast for years via the National Public Radio network. From 1968 to 1972, Cerny was the adminis­trative director of the master of music degree in performance and literature at the Eastman School. 
Through his extensive per­forming and teaching experi­ence, Cerny has developed an extensive chamber and solo repertoire, including the com­plete 62 Hayden sonatas, the 19 Mozart sonatas, and 36 of the standard works in the literature. Since his appoint­ment at Notre Dame, he has maintained an active performing schedule that has included performances as soloist and as chamber mu­sician both on campus and at other colleges and universities. 
He has made five separate guest appearances with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet. He also has made more than 65 recordings of the solo piano literature (more than 165 titles) and has now made them available for college and university libraries throughout the country. 
His series of radio programs continues to be broadcast weekly by stations around the country. 


----~------~­
~--~·--­
page 6 

Police helpers AP Photo 
Marion Frazier, left, and Anthony Prestino, right, pose in a handi­capped parking space in Westport with their Polaroid cameras. They use the cameras to snap pictures of cars they spot parked illegally in handicapped parking spaces. 
1ne uoserver 

Tuesday, April 16, 1991 
Congress urged to lift ban 
WASHINGTON {AP) -A sci­entist described for Congress on Monday the nation's first fetus­to-fetus transplant, but said future operations are jeopardized by the administra­tion's ban against federal sup­port of research using electively aborted tissue. 
Robert Slotnick, an obstetri­cian and geneticist at the Uni­versity of California at Davis, said it won't be known for weeks whether the surgery last May, involving the transplanta­tion of tissue from an aborted fetus, saved a child born in November from a fatal disease. 
"I wish I could tell you this was a success, but we don't know that yet," said Slotnick. "But I can tell you this work can't continue without the sup­port of the federal govern­ment," he testified to the House Energy and Commerce health subcommittee. 
Slotnick recounted for law­makers the still unpublished experiment in which tissue from a fetus aborted in an ec­topic, or tubal, pregnancy was transplanted into a fetus with a rare disease called Hurler syn­drome. The parents had two other children who died from the disease. 
The hope, said Slotnick, was for the transplanted tissue to produce blood cells that, in turn, would manufacture an enzyme that is missing in Hurler syndrome victims. He said it would be several weeks before he can determine whether that was the case. 
The privately financed work Slotnick did, as it turned out, would not have violated the federal financing moratorium because the tissue came from a medically necessary abortion in a woman who had a dangerous tubal pregnancy. The ban ap­plies to use of fetuses from elective abortions. 
But Slotnick said tissue from ectopic pregnancies is generally not a good source for trans­plant, partly because it is more prone to infection. He originally intended, he said, to use tissue from an elective abortion, and it was only by chance that that was not the case. 
The parents of the child, Guy and Terri Walden of Houston, testified that they are ardent opponents of abortion and "we want to see it become illegal." But, Guy Walden said, "we don't see this (fetal tissue transplants) as being markedly different from other trans­plants." 
Since abortion is legal in the United States, "stopping this tissue from being used isn't go­ing to bring (the aborted fetus) back," he said. "What about the moral question of if we can help a child but we don't?" 
Even if abortion were illegal, tissue from spontaneously aborted fetuses and others could be used, and cell lines from this tissue could possibly be grown in laboratories in large quantities, they said. But without the initial research, the possibilities would never be known, they added. 
Rep. Henry Waxman, 0-Calif., subcommittee chairman, as­sailed the administration for imposing the indefinite morato­rium on federally financed re­search using tissue from fetuses that were intentionally aborted. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
degree. She has served the As­sociation of Catholic Colleges and Universities, an organiza­tion of 200 member institutions, as executive director since 1980. she has worked within higher education for more than 35 years as a teacher, dean and director of public relations. 
A scholar in the field of Eu­ropean History. Gallin is the author of two books on the establishment of and resistance to the Nazi party in Germany. She holds honorary degrees from Anna Maria College, Loy­ola University of Chicago, As­sumption College and Iona Col­lege. 
Her other awards include the Alpha Sigma Nu Award from the University of Scranton, the John XXIII Award from the College of Saint Elizabeth. She is a member of the Order of Saint Ursula, a congregation of women religious. 
Meekison will receive the Saint Mary's President's Medal. A lifelong resident of Napoleon, Ohio; she has been active in her community as a writer, editor, photographer and historian. Her work on historical publica­tions and her successful efforts to secure national historic building status for two local churches earned her the 1990 Citizen of the Year award from the Napoleon Chamber of Commerce. 
Meekison's contributions to Saint Mary's have included 50 years as a class reporter for Courier, the College's alumnae magazine. She currently is a member of the publication's editorial advisory board. Courier's annual essay contest for aspiring alumnae writers is named in her honor. 
Renaldi, the 1991 valedicto­rian, is a 1987 graduate of Saint Joseph's High School in South Bend. She has served as the editor of Chimes, the Col­lege's literary magazine, and is the department of English rep­resentative to the Student Activ­ities Council. She has served as a eucharistic minister for the College's campus ministry and as a member of the student government admission and scholarship committee. 
Renaldi plans to study law following graduation. 

April 14 
Schedule 
The Center' lor Continuing Educatloo 
f\otre Dame Center 
for Ethics and Religious
Values in Business

D 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17 
The Functions and Future of International Institutions 
9:00 a.m. Session 8 Dennis P. McCann, Professor of Religious Studies, DePaul Universit~ "Toward a Theology of the Corporation: A Second Chance for Catholic Social Teaching" Archbishop Marcos G. McGrath, C.S.C., Panama "The Social Doctrine of the Church in Latin America Expressed in Medellin and in Puebla" Chair: Patrick E. Murphy, Chair, Marketing 
10:45 a.m. Session 9 Peter .J. Henriot, S . .J., Former Director, Center for Social Concerns, St. Ignatius Church, Lusaka, Zambia "Who Cares About Africa? Development Guidelines from the Church's Social Teaching" William Pfaff, Author and Political .Journalist, Paris, France "A Reconsideration of Internationalism and Nationalism" Chair: .John G. Keane, Dean, College of Business Administration 

Oil tanker sinks AP Photo 
Smoke billows from the sinking Cypriot-registered tanker "Haven" carrying with it nearly 41 million gallons of crude oil to the bottom of the Ligurian coast near Genoa, Italy, Saturday, magnifying concerns of an environmental disaster along the Italian Riviera. 
Legal 'ethics' exist 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 

"Legal ethics is not an oxy­moron," said Professor John Robinson, director of the White Center on Law and Government. 
Robinson, who spoke to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students last night in a lecture titled "Why Ethnics is not an Oxymoron," stated that legal ethics needs to be addressed because the profession of law is perceived as "morally corrupt­ing." 
Because lawyers invest so much of themselves in repre­senting morally questionable cases, it is necessary to show how law is not inherently cor­rupting, he said. 
Robinson derived inspiration for his first defense of law from the first letter of John in the Bible. The letter "tells the Christian community that we have one who pleads our case before the heavenly father." The advocate in this case is Je­sus, Robinson explained. 
He added that this biblical example suggests that there might be "a significant human good" in people placing them­selves between a powerful sys­tem and the individual. Such an unequal confrontation is "demeaning" and "even the guilty should confront authority on some level of equality." 
Robinson stated that lawyers are needed to "reestablish equilibrium" between an indi­vidual and the huge, impersonal judicial process. "This seems to be a very good thing," he said. 
The lecture also focused on "the fundamental need you and I have as citizens to be able to perceive the process as fair." The judicial process has to be totally free of prejudice, both in appearance and reality, accord­ing to Robinson. 
When a defense attorney "takes a case and makes it as vigilantly as it can be made" and "tests the state's case at every imaginable point," the system's fairness is more read­ily insured, he said. Such a process is the only way to guarantee a fair trial. 
Robinson added that two 
classes, "all those ever eon­
fronted by large, frightening, 
unrelenting systems" and "you 
and me in our eapacity as citi­
zens," need this proteetion. 
According to Bobinson, the general public has to have "confidence in the proeess" in order for the system to continue to funetion. By acting as mediators between the system and the individual, lawyers en­sure that society perceives the legal system as fair. 
What endangers lawyers is "smugness, complaceney, lazi­ness, and indifferenee." lie continued, "Clients rarely get what they expect," which is a "bright, zealous, knowledge­able" attorney. 
Because lawyers often are not able to devote enough of their time and effort to dients, tlHJ legal process suffers, explained Hobinson. 
Lawyers also frequently are unable to relate to their clients beeause attorneys "assume that clients have really thought through what they are asking lawyers to do." He added that lawyers ean combat this prob­lem by communicating more with their clients. 
Robinson concluded his lec­ture by calling law "a necessary profession, and potentially a non-corrupting one." He said he knew many lawyers who are both "good lawyers and good persons" and that their "goodness is not independent of what they do professionally." 
The lecture was part of the Professional Ethics Lecture Series and was sponsored by the Office of the Provost, the University Honor Committee, and the Student Academic Council Committee. 

Summer STOR.AGE RESERVATION [ 683-1959 ] • APPitOX 2 1/2 MILES NORTII US 31-33 Master Mini Wan·hou~cs  
"The Pulse of the 90's!" Summer Countdown Party! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! E EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT"'<.. ~ 75¢/$2.50 Specials ~ PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! • Win a Free Party for You • and 25 Friends DANCE Featuring Guest DJ "The Best Damn Bar In Town" 1150 Mishawaka Avenue Must be 21 288-0285 I.D. Required  

Mrs. Bush offers opinions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bar­bara Bush said Monday she hopes Saddam Hussein will be hanged for war crimes against Kuwait and his own people. 
"He certainly is right up there with the people they tried ... (after) World War II," said Mrs. Bush. ''I'd like to see him hanged if he were found guilty," by a war erimes tribunal, she said, adding that "we're talking about thousands and thousands" who were killed and tortured. 
She called the plight of the Kurdish refugees "heart­breaking," but defended Presi­dent Bush's response to the cri­sis, in which hundreds of thou­sands of Kurds have fled for their lives to the Turkish border and Iran. 
"He hasn't let them down," said Mrs. Bush, adding, "I don't think anyone envisioned what happened" after Saddam Hussein's army crushed a Kur­dish rebellion. 
"I think this is where the brave new world is going to come in. This is where the United Nations has to take over," said Mrs. Bush. 
She also revealed, in a 90­minute luncheon meeting with reporters, that former first lady Nancy Reagan called her to thank her for denouncing Kitty Kelley's gossipy biography as "trash and fiction." 
And she said her son Neil Bush is being "persecuted" by federal regulators in their probe of a failed Denver savings and loan. 
She said the entire Bush fam­ily has rallied around Neil, 36, but she sharply dismissed any comparison with the way the Kennedy clan has dosed ranks after a woman claimed she was raped at the Kennedy com­pound in Palm Beach, Fla., by a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
"If you don't mind my saying so, I'd rather you didn't men­tion their latest flap in the same breath wit.h my innocent son," said Mrs. Bush. 
Of Saddam Hussein, Mrs. Bush said, "I detest him. I just detest him." 
"What they did to the Kuwaitis was so outrageous.... I think everybody's shocked, though, at the turning on his own people like this," she said. 
"He broke many, many inter­national laws," she said, and a war crimes trial "would be only fair." 
On other issues, the first lady: 
•
Laughed off the possibility that any tell-tale books would be written about the Bush's private lives. "In our case, in all honesty, there's just not a whole bunch to tell." 

•Scoffed 
at Kelley's report that Mrs. Reagan arranged pri­vate meetings in the White House with Frank Sinatra. "That's the biggest joke in the world. Would that you should be so lucky," said Mrs. Bush. "About 200 people can walk through this house.... Nobody can come up and not be seen." 

•Allowed 
she "might be tempted" to fire aides who 


leaked information to the press. 
•Dedined 
to give her opinion on the Brady bill mandating a seven-day waiting period for gun purehases, saying ''I'm not going to pass judgment on President Beagan" who recently endorsed it. 

•Hevealed 
that "Millie's Book," about the family dog's life at the White House, has al­ready generatnd $625,000 in royalties for her literacy foun­dation. It's been on the best­seller lists for seven months. 

•Said 
Lee Atwater, the later Republican party ehief, did not need to "apologize at all" for using escaped killer Willie llor­ton as an issue in the 1988 campaign against Democrat Michael Dukakis. 


The first lady agreed that it is a 98 percent certainty that Bush will seek re-election in 1992. But she added, "It is very tough to have your children suffer for a job you have." 
Mrs. Bush said Neil Bush is considering pursuing new busi­ness opportunities in Texas. He is facing possible sanctions for his role as an outside director of Silverado Savings and Loan, which went bankrupt at a cost to taxpayers of $1 billion. 
"It is terrible for him, an ab­solute outrage," said Mrs. Bush. "He's done nothing wrong. He's the most honest, caring, giving man I know and I think he's really been persecuted." 
Mrs. Bush said she was "in awe of" her husband's equa­nimity during the Gulf War. 


Student Government Presents... 
APublic Forum On Contemporary Issues 
with 


The Honorable William H. Webster 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
"The Role ofIntelligence in aComplex World" 
Jlednesday, April17, 1991 8:00pm Library Auditorium 
•
~TUDtNT 
1011111111 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members of the Arts &Letters Council and the Business College Council. 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, November 20, 1990 
page 7 


LETTERS 

Damaging trends in higher education explain its decline 
/Jear Hditor:  research and publieation.  some  liberal educators and  students' right to free speech.  initiate or even continue un­ 
Thern has been much talk of  These  changes  have  a  politicians as being biased and  One case of this infringement  proven, fad-prompted concen­ 
latn about the condition of  marked  effect  on  the  racial.  For  example,  at  can be found at Dartmouth  trations such  as  gender  or  
Amnrkan liberal arts universi­ undergraduates.  A student at  Stanford University recently,  College, where a conservative  peace studies.  Instead, let the  
ties.  Major magazines and  today's university is receiving a  Jesse Jackson led 500 students  publication, the Dartmouth  time-proven ideals of these  
nnwspapers, as well as count­ more  specialized,  career­ in  a rally chanting  "Hey, hey,  Review, has consistently been  courses find their way into the  
less journals, have dedicated  oriented education instead of a  hey, ho! Western culture's got to  penalized for publishing opin­ established core eurriculum.  
nntire issues to praising or,  general one.  This is a marked  go."  The administration re­ ions contrary to the official  
more ·commonly, criticizing  change from the traditional  acted to this dangerous ultima­ views of the college.  Finally,  charge  the  
America's colleges and univer­ purpose of a college.  tum by cutting down its courses  University to pass  measures  
sities.  Even The Observer has  John Henry Newman argues  in Western civilization.  There is little or no evidence  ensuring  the  freedoms  of  
been filled with eriticisms con­ correctly in his preface to The  to support the claims made by  speech, assembly and press for  
cerning the well-being of Notre  Idea of a University that the  Claims that Western civiliza­ the college officials and that the  all students and student groups,  
Dame.  function of a university is the  tion and culture are too narrow  impediment of free speech is  right-wing as well as left-wing,  
lligher education in America  formation of the mind, not the  in their views and too biased in  not in direct contrast to the  and to resist the temptation of  
has been on the decline for the  incurrence of vocational skills.  their teachings are unfounded.  United States Constitution.  enacting a speech code.  
past twenty years.  I approach  Unfortunately, many American  John  Silber  wrote  in  The  In the midst of all this seem­ In this age of perpetual pro­ 
this eonclusion not from the  colleges are deviating from the  Intercollegiate Review that "the  ing chaos and confusion, I be­ gressivism  and  sometimes  
fact that 25 pereent of the col­ original intent of a university  culture of the West, as long as  lieve that, for starters, Notre  mindless "advancements," the  
lege seniors polled in  a 1989  education  as  put  forth  by  we have records of it, has been  Dame should resist the rising  words of  Lynne Cheney hold a  
Gallup Survey  were  neither  Cardinal Newman.  penetrated by the culture of the  temptation to move toward be­ great deal of credence:  "Not  
able to locate Columbus' voyage  East."  The fact is that Western  coming a research-based uni­ everything shifts and changes.  
within the correct half century  The second noticeable move­ culture is all-encompassing and  versity.  The administration  Not  everything is  relative.  
nor differentiate between the  ment in higher education today  never has been ethnocentric.  It  should retain the requirements  Some things do endure-and  
words of Joseph Stalin and  is away from traditional tracts  offers the best foundation for a  it has so as to provide a tradi­ college should be a time to ex­ 
Winston Churchill; but, instead,  and methods of study and to­ good liberal arts education and  tional liberal arts education  plore history and thought for  
from the fundamental changes  ward trendy new ones.  should remain the cornerstone  with its foundation of Western  values that have stood the test  
now occurring on America's  Today, many colleges are be­ of America's colleges.  Civilization.  of time."  
campuses.  Some  of  these  ginning to supplement or even  A final concern is the current  I also encourage the aca­ John Barry  
changes include revised core  replace traditional course sem­ administrative actions on many  demic leaders of Notre Dame to  KeenanHall  
courses, trendy new tracts of  inars with computer-generated  campuses intended to violate  refrain from the temptation to  Nov. 15, 1990  
study and the dropping of en­ and computer-based lessons.  
tire departments.  Perhaps more information can  
The general trend at many American institutions is in two  be retained from clicking but­tons on the screen of an imper­ Student submits alternative Bill of Rights 
directions-away from the arts  sonal computer, but this is not  
and letters (toward science and  the purpose of a  university.  Dear Editor:  fects, against unreasonable  be taken for public use without  
research) and away from the  The role of the university  is to  I would like to submit for  searches and seizures, shall not  just compensation.  
traditional core course of study  "teach universal knowledge"  public review the following al­ be violated, and no warrants  Article IV:  Excessive fines  
(toward a non-Western culture  which  can  only  be  ternative version of the Student  shall issue but upon probable  shall not be imposed, nor cruel  
based curriculum).  The former  accomplished by the tried-and­ Bill of Rights:  cause, supported by oath or  or  unusual  punishment in­ 
movement is, perhaps, the most  true, traditional methods of  Article I:  The University shall  affirmation, and particularly  flicted.  
evident.  On many campuses,  teaching.  make no  rule respecting an  describing the  place  to  be  Article V:  The enumeration of  
social science and liberal arts  Another disturbing trend on  establishment of religion, or  searched and the persons or  certain rights shall  not  be  
departmental staffs are being  American campuses is a move  prohibiting the free exercise  things to be seized.  construed to deny or disparage  
depleted and undermanned in  away  from  the  traditional  thereof; or abridging the free­ Article III:  No person shall be  other retained by the people.  .  
order to free up money for new  Western civilization-based cur­ dom of speech or of the press;  subject for the same offense to  Article VI:  The powers not  
scientific researeh faeilities and  riculum.  At many universities,  or  the  right  of the  people  be twice put in jeopardy of life  delegated to the University, nor  
laboratories.  Class sizes in all  including Notre Dame, it is  peaceably to assemble, and to  or limb; nor shall be compelled  prohibited to the people,  are  
fields of study are growing at a  possible to graduate without  petition the University for a re­ in any case to be a  witness  reserved to the people.  
trermmdous rate as more and  taking a single Western history  dress of grievances.  against  himself,  nor  be  
more  professors teach fewer  or Western civilization class.  Article II:  The right of the  deprived of life. liberty or prop­ Martin Mohlenkamp  
and fewer classes per academic  These traditionally core type  people to be secure in their per­ erty, without due process of  Cavanaugh Hall  
term in order to concentrate on  courses are being attacked by  sons, houses, papers and ef­ law; nor shall private property  Nov. 14, 1990  
1<1/.../, U5... 


DOONESBURY 
Pf<IVIU':GW 7D H05T THe/ C-IN-C H/55et.F-.' 

/.-~~ 
50 IF YOU 5e<.VICE (j(}Y5 'N' 
GAL-S aJIU JU5T SHW UPIN 
DF&SS FORMATION IN FUU­GtAR., 7Ht Pf<&.Z. HAS PROM­15tl? 7D mwe<. A R3AJ BOMBSH/3U5 ,,CXJPS, I MeAN, 
CHOIC£ aJOR.f)S/ HA, HAl 

EAU 
HE'S <30NNA 
/XJaJ&HAVe
fUN HeRe

OOPS! I 
OR.aJHAF

MtAN,PUT 
5UR£15

US AWAY. .. 
I
. RAINING

f NO,. 
7VRI<EYS 
lH/SWE£1<. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Sex and love have nothing to do with female or male. It is just whenever two souls happen to be.' 
Bob Dylan 

.. ,. ~· . ' -' . .. . . ,. . .. . .. .... " .
~ 


Viewpoint 

Tuesday, November 20, 1990
page 8 
Women participating in sports refute columnist's sexist slant 

LETTERS 
Charges of football illiteracy unjustly implicate female fans 
Dear Editor: 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. It is great to feel I am a part of this spirited family that revels in coming together on Saturday afternoons to hail a team that no matter what the 
A.P. poll says, is number one. (Yes, Mr. Snyder, I do under­stand what football rankings mean.) It really pained me to see that all of those days I spent cheering for a team that I thought represented both the men and the women of Notre Dame were wasted because I obviously cannot understand the game as well as my male counterparts. 
Apparently, the Notre Dame administration neglected to mention in Du Lac that women are incapable of achieving that state of near frenzy when play­ers such as Rod Smith pull off yet another Fighting Irish mir­acle. We poor, ignorant women­folk should only be present to caress the bruised egos of the menfolk when our offensive or defensive plays go amok, or to fetch them a beer when their palates so desire. Ah, the joys of being a woman. 
My daddy didn't raise a fool, and he most certainly didn't raise a football illiterate. Maybe Mr. Snyder had partaken of a bit too many "brew-has" when he foolishly composed his poignant piece of male chauvinist garbage. My experience of football at Notre Dame has been just as reward­ing as his beer-bellied, belching buffoons. Yes, I too participate in section pile-ons, hysterical shouting and the general Irish euphoria that can be found in the stadium and dorm rooms alike. And no, it really isn't nec­essary to provide women a room for watching animated fairy tales, powdering noses, or as an outlet to gossip about how lucky we are to be cheering for "their" team. 
The only fairy tale that I would like to see is for some of the men of Notre Dame to get off of their butts, open their minds and leave their ugly jokes about women behind them. While we are in the pro­cess of eliminating problems, why don't we start with that in­sipid, sexist quiz. 
All I can say to Mr. Snyder's "humorous" description of male/female football interaction is that he is going to find it really difficult to invite over any 
woman games.  for  future  football  
Kellene Johnson Pasquerilla East Nov. 14, 1990  

Observer exhibits poor judgement 
Dear Editor: 
I should hope this is one of many letters The Observer re­ceives concerning Michael Snyder's article "Women and Football: Do They Mix?" (Nov. 
14) Just to be concise, allow me to name a few adjectives that come to mind: immature, of­fensive, creatively and stylisti­cally lacking, and magnificently unfunny. 
What really sickens me is that The Observer would print such an intellectually void and on­humorous article. Time and space, not to mention that I must "jump up to 'freshen up' in the powder room," do not permit me to completely rehash the offensive phrases and innu­endos in the article. I would not want to insult anyone's in­telligence by pointing out the obvious. I certainly would not want to print the key lines from the article more than once; that might be a little too much hu­mor for the campus to take. 
I understand The Observer may print articles not necessar­ily acceptable to everyone, but I should hope there could be a more entertaining, or even in­tellectually stimulating, use found for three-quarters of a page of journalism. I'm just so glad I'm one of the "girls" who . knows the game of football, so I'm "not that bad". Thanks so much for opening my eyes; now I need to go look at videotapes of football players' butts. 
Meg Taylor Pasquerilla West November 14, 1990 
By Chris Cooney 

"Women and Football: Do They Mix?" A better question might be "Freshmen and Newspaper Columns: Should They Be Allowed?" The answer, exhibited by at least one Observer article (Nov. 14), is a resounding "no." 
Not only does Michael Snyder insult every sports-loving woman on this campus, he also perpetuates the stereotypes and prejudices that exist at Notre Dame. Love of football does not depend on the presence of a Y chromosome in one's genes. Replace the word "girls" with "blacks" or "homosexuals" and what type of reaction do you think you will receive? This type of sexism should never be tolerated at. a university in the 1990's. 
I hope that most of Synder's comments are based on what I see as extreme ignorance and immaturity. I, too, sat in a room of both men and women (all seniors) to watch the Notre Dame-Tennessee game. 
However, any "yapping" was done by everyone, and both genders had insightful and in­teresting comments to make on the game. The men did not turn into "heathen animals." The women did not "gossip." We were more worried about the officiating and the lousy com­mentators than the "powder room." In fact, I'd bet that a couple of us "girls" could teach Snyder a thing or two about the sport of football. 
I hope as Snyder goes through his four years at Notre Dame he will realize that peo­ple do not always fall into easy gender stereotypes. Although he calls himself a journalist and insists that he listened to all sides of the issue, I'm sure that most of his quotes were fabri­cated -revealing his own atti­tudes at the expense of a num­ber of people. Although he tries to lighten the tone by suggest­ing that both men and women take his tongue-and-cheek quiz, the damage was already done. 
Women on this campus play interhall football. Women on this campus work for the sports department of The Observer (the sports editor last year, in fact, was a woman). Women on this campus work as managers and trainers for the football team (and not because they enjoy looking at 300-pound players). 
I'm sure the writer intended his column to be humorous. He'll probably be amused at the amount of angry mail he re­ceives. But chauvinism is not a laughing matter, especially in what is supposed to be the "Year of Women." 
I hope the next time someone with only. three months experience on this campus decides to write a column he will not resort to tired, overused subjects in his quest for an easy laugh. We female football fans would rather read something by someone who knows what he is talking about. 
Chris Cooney is an assistant sports editor for The Observer. 

LETTERS 

-Article stifles relations between sexes 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Michael Snyder's article (The Observer, Nov. 14). Mr. Snyder's views are his own and he has the right to hold them regardless of how sexist and ill­informed they are. I do not, however, feel that the Observer was right in printing the article. If this article were about blacks, Hispanics, or any other minority group, there is very little doubt in my mind that no editor would allow its publica­tion. 
I also would like to speak for many of the women on this campus who were equally of­fended. I know that others were angered by this article, because, walking across cam­pus today, I repeatedly heard complaints about it. 
First of all, why is knowledge of football a requirement for derstand and enjoy the game, and some of us want to learn enough to do so. Maybe some women don't want to learn about football, but I still have tremendous difficulty with the logic used in this article. 
If "men did not want any women to be in the same room with them during the game," then why was the solution "to not invite members of the op­posite sex" outvoted? 
"Grown, cultured, and civi­lized men" do not write and publish sexist and demeaning articles. 
And why should anyone imply that "all they're doing is looking at the players' butts?" What is attractive about a 300 pound man's butt? Mr. Synder should take the time out to listen to a few male comments about groups such as the Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders. "Wow, then proceed to carry hair spray, powder, perfume, deodorant, lipstick, hairbrush, curling iron, nail polish, and other amenities with them to these "powder rooms?" These women must also lift weights, a "manly" sport, in order to carry a bag that would probably weigh twenty pounds. 
Lastly, I would like to thank Mr. Snyder from those of us who understand football and passed the quiz. We swear, yell, drink beer, and, when so inclined, belch right along with the rest of you. It's nice to know that we are "not that bad," even though being female appears to be an inherent evil. 
We are, however, taking votes on that Heisman Trophy win­ner. Remember girls, keep on watching those buns! And don't forget how to "give the Heisman" to all those so-called 


The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
acceptance into society? Most what an incredible gran jete "grown, cultured, civilized men" men learn from being encour­into a fabulous stag leap!" is not out there who help perpetuate aged to play the game and from one of the comments one often the sexist attitude that so often interaction with peers of the hears. stifles openness and communi­same sex. Women often do not If only women are jumping up cation between the sexes. have these football learning ex­to get drinks, then how do the periences. How many men get those "brew-has" in Beth Maus "knowledgeable" men offer or their hands? And how many Publicity Coordinator even attempt to honestly ex­"powder rooms " are there in C.A.R.E. plain football to women? Some Morrissey? How many women Off-campus of us know enough to fully un-use the words "freshen up" and November 14, 1990 

1uesaay, Apnl 1o, 1!:1!:11 1ne uoserver page !:I 



Yale tradition suspended after women are invited 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. (API ­Skull and Bones, the all-male sAcret society at Yale whosA members include President Bush, was ordered closed for a year by its alumni directors after rebellious students invited women to join. 
The alumni directors have been d11bating whether to end the private club's 159-year-old tradition as a bastion of male­only bonding, but were having difficulty reaching a decision. 
The 1 5 seniors in the current class of Bonesmen, frustrated by thn lack of action, notified the board of dirnctors at an ernergnncy mneting Friday night that thny had invited snven womAn and eight men to join. 
In response, thA board over the w1wkend rnplaced the locks on the 'Tomb," the windowless, mausohmm-like building where the sodety meets. 
Sidney Lovett, the society's sncretary and assistant trea­surer, said Monday that the alumni directors had no choice but to suspend operations for a year. 
Skull and Bones is not an in­stitution that will allow its tra­ditions to be changed "arbitrarily or in an unautho­rized way," Lovett said. 
None of the juniors tapped by the class of 1991 will be recog­nized as membnrs, he said. 
The current Bonesmen said tlwy were seeking the help of some of the society's influential alumni in turning the board around. Even if they are unsuc­cessful, thlly said they would 
Swept clean 
AP Photo 

A group of cows pass along the grounds of a United States Navy communication facility in Capas, Philippines recently after the facility was turned over to the Philippines last January. Shortly after the 
U.S. turned over the communication station, nearly 1,500 Filipinos stormed the sight with picks, shovels, and chain saws, looting everything from manhole covers to underground cables. 
Tabloid reveals victim's name 
carry out all the rituals of tap­ping a new club and introduc­ing them into the world of Skull and Bones. 
"What they've done is a throwback to the 19th century," said a spokesman for the group. lie spoke on condition of anonymity because of the so­ciety's strict rules about secrecy. 
Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., a Bonesman from the class of 1963 who serves on the Yale Corporation, the university's board of trustees, issued a statement saying that the deci­sion by this year's club "should be respected and accepted." 
Yale began admitting women in 1969. Only one other senior society, Wolf's Head, remains all-male. At Princeton Univer­sity, the last holdout among five all-male eating clubs admitted women in February after more than a decade of legal battles to keep them out. 
While refusing to admit women, Skull and Bones has an otherwise diverse membership. Black, Hispanic and gay stu­dents are members of the cur­rent club. 
Lovett said it had never been the intention to change the all­male policy before 1992. He said there was no great urgency to resolve the matter this spring. 
The board had announced it intended to decide the issue this spring after soliciting the views of the more than 800 alumni members. 
Hey 
y'all Guess whats gowin' own? 
PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP)-A supermarket tabloid published a photo and the name of the victim in the alleged assault at the Kennedy estate Monday de­spite a Florida law prohibiting the disclosure of rape victims' identities. 
Also Monday, the results of forensics tests were turned over to police, who said they have identified new witnesses. 
The Globe, headquartered in nearby Boca Raton, printed a photo of the woman who says she was sexually attacked at the Kennedy estate, along with a detailed story about her back­ground. 
Globe Managing Editor Robert Taylor said he might have a statement later. 
It was apparently the first time the woman's name had appeared in a U.S. publication, though it has been published in England. 
Under state law, publishing or broadcasting a rape victim's "name, address, or other identi­fying fact or information" is a second-degree misdemeanor punishable by a 60-day jail sentence and a $500 fine. 
William Kennedy Smith, 30, a medical student and a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, has denied at­tacking the 29-year-old woman March 30. No charges have been filed. 
The analysis of evidence from the so-called rape kit prepared by doctors who examined the woman and of blood and hair samples taken from Smith was completed and turned over to police Monday, said Dr. Richard Tanton, director of the Palm Beach County crime lab. 
He said he knew what conclu­sions can be drawn from the test results, but was not at lib­erty to disclose them. 
Tanton said it may take six to eight weeks to complete more complex DNA testing. DNA pro­vides a genetic fingerprint that can be extremely accurate in identifying an attacker. 




Happy Birthday Brock 
Love, Niklcy, Clark, KiHy and Switch 
RETURNS TO CAMPUS AT 3:00PM 
0 
$7.00 INCLUDES: TRANSPORTATION TO/FROM 
Craig Gunkel, spokesman for the Palm Beach police, said "the investigation is continuing at a very active pace. There are additional witnesses that have been identified that need to be interviewlld." 
He would not elaborate on the witnesses or on the lab results. 
Gunkel also said the Palm Beach police will not participate in a planned meeting by the state attorney's office with lawyers for the woman and for Smith. That meeting has drawn criticism from Police Chief Joseph Terlizzese as unneces­sary because prosecutors usu­ally prepare charges based on the police investigation. 
"That's the chief's decision," said Gunkel. "We'll present it all at one time to the state attor­ney's office." 
Jack Freese, a spokesman for the state attornlly's office, said the meeting with attorneys to discuss evidence has not been scheduled and may not be held this wllek. 

--~--------~ 
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, April 16, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•.•.............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ........•.....•••••• John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ...............•••••. Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame does not teach fundamental skills 
Dear Editor: whom are able to conduct a professor out of five knows the does have a communications in du Lac entitled "University 
In an age of high unemploy­high quality lecture, and each of most about electrical engineer­department, but within that de­Standards of Behavior" and ment and few job opportunities whom have consistently outper­ing, but they sure know which partment such courses intrinsic you'll see. Do you feel that ed­for graduation seniors, today's formed existing faculty in stu­one conveys the information to an education such as speech ucating the person instead of students rely more and more on dent-teacher evaluations. best. Heed the student-teacher and debate are vastly under­the student is a fair trade-off? the quality of their education to Somehow, these evaluations evaluations, PLEASE! staffed, under-supported mone­Do you feel the dollar value of provide them with the skills have no impact on tenure, how­Second, students are not tarily, and neglected. your education sinking? needed in a competitive job ever. The decision rule used is learning fundamental skills If Notre Dame can have 40 As a transfer from a slightly market. Here, at the University to maintain those professors necessary in the job market and sections of freshman comp each more liberal college, I chose of Notre Dame however, I am who bring in the most research the Administration is doing semester and require each Notre Dame because I thought it appalled to think that the money, write the most books, or nothing to help the matter. Two student to complete at least six stood for academic excellence. Administration feels that it can are just plain famous in their fundamental skills inherent in credits of a freshman writing The truth of the matter is, compromise education quality, particular fields. any job are the ability to write course, the least it could do is however, that ND students just and in it place, impose morals and the ability to logically make speech and debate a legit­do not get the skills they need to on students to make them better If you could choose between a reason and speak. While I'm imate university requirement succeed in today's job market people. The academic demise professor who lectures sure that any ND student could and make it available to every­(that's a fact to which any has been twofold. well-one from which you might write a glowing essay on the one. employer will agree) while they 
actually learn something-and Socratic Method, I have yet to are instead persecuted by a 
First, teacher quality here is one who lectures poorly but is meet many who can deliver a While losing its grip on aca­Neo-Nazi administration. Now quite low and is substantially well versed in his/her own field logical, concise, persuasive ver­demic quality, the it's smoking. What's next? A lower than it need be. I've lost of study, which would you bal speech (or argument for Administration now feels that book burning frenzy? Or will count of the number of legiti­choose? The Administration that matter). they can impose standards of they just do away with students' mately good lecturing profes­consistently chooses the latter morality on students in order to constitutional freedoms sors that have left due to the while students, as evidenced by If you are going to be a verbal maintain a high level of edu­altogether? Administration; each of whom DART hysteria, class closings moron, the job market, in which cational quality. It's like edu­students feel comfortable with, and student-teacher evalua­99 percent of work is done ver­cating the person not the stu­Richard Tuohy each of whom honestly care tions, demand the former. bally, is not the place for you to dent. You don't believe me? Carroll Hall about academic quality, each of Students may not know which have to learn such skills. ND Just read the growing chapter April9,1991 
Task force needed to protect rights of non-smokers 
Dear Editor: 
smoking in non-smoking sec­
In response to the lettelj tions in various public placesprotesting the newly-forme,% demonstrate people's sensitivity smoking task force, (Tf\ft towards the needs of both par­
Observer, April 10) we wo,~¥.~ ties. like to assert the rights of the In conclusion, we would like non-smokers. 
to support Father Malloy's de­First, we object to the refer­cision to form a smoking task ence to smokers being treated 
force. We do recognize, how­in a similar fashion as blacks in ever, that there are considerate 
the pre-Civil Rights era. It's 
smokers on this campus, and 
true that this segregation was ignorance to want to protect S.eeondly, we would like to re­tions? 
we hope that this task force an act of arrogance and igno­one's health. In 1986 the AMA spond to the comparison of In reference to the interaction does not discriminate against
proved that second-hand smoke smoking and drinking. We con­of smokers and non-smokers in
rance but this is irrelevant to them. They do have the right to 
is more harmful to the health of cede that drinking can be both the workplace, we cite the
the issue at hand. Blacks do not smoke, but it ends where the
bystanders than the primary as offensive and as harmful to growing awareness in America
choose their race, and their skin rights of non-smokers begin. 
smoke is to the smoker. If one's health as smoking. The of this problem. For example,
color is neither offensive or 
anyone is ignorant in this con­University, however, already has the transportation industry has
harmful to anyone in any way. 
Carrie Isabell 
troversial issue, it is the smok­policies restricting, not taken steps such as banning
Smokers, on the other hand, 
Ann Marie McMorrow 
choose to take up their habit, ers, who repeatedly disregard eliminating, the use of alcohol smoking on all domestic flights, 
Stefanie Thelian 
thus segregating themselves. It valid warnings about the dan­on campus. Why should smok­such as the three-hour flight Badin Hall 
gers of their habit. ing be exempt of such restric-from Chicago to L.A. Also,
is not an act of arrogance or 

DOONESBURV 
51[), HtR£'5 7H8 AG[jNC(ASR&e­M/5NT YOU St:NT 
OVPR... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

AFRA/0N(J[ I'Ve GOT 50MePI?08-·-------~~~~ 
ttMStfii7H 7H8 /?JaR Z IIFIJITFA-
YOU'Vb 
FRANK£.Y,
7/0N aAf./Se5, Al/30, roUKe Y()(J 

c:HANGW, !7'SNOT
70 tuAIVb Y()(Jf?. COMM/9:>/0N ON 

BOOPS/8. V8RY
f'ROJ&CTS tUHICHI /NIT/Alf;AT... 

IXJYOU ATT~­
~~iio./ 
I<NOIIJ 7Hf.l:r? 
7/VI3.
YOU've 0-/ANGW. 
\
~(' 

April 1 0, 1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'For the secret of man's being is not only to live but to have something to live for.' 
Fyodor Dostoevsky 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

-----------~---­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 16, 1991 page 11 
Emphasis on research harms undergraduates 
Editor's note: The following is part one of a two part column. 
The most important con­struction project on campus this year is neither the peace center nor the classroom building. It is the two signs proclaiming Notre Dame as "A National Catholic Hesearch University." One first might ask whether "national" is descriptive of "Catholic" rather than "university" in light of the reality that Notre Dame is a "Catholic" university with a de facto orthodoxy of dissent. 
Twenty years of teaching Notre Dame graduates leads me to conclude that Notre Dame does not otTer its students a pre­dictable and reliable oppor­tunity to study the heritage of the Catholic faith, especially as seen in the documents of Vatican II and papal teachings. The student who takes "pot luck" in his courses will be at risk of studying those subjects through a distorting lens provided by a professor who more or less adheres to the new American Church. The ordinary NotrA Dame graduate, to my ob­servation, tends, through no fault of his own, to be a functional illiterate with respect to know!Adge of the actual teachings of the Catholic Church. 
Thn main significance of the signs, however, arises from their proclamation that Notre Dame is now a "research university." This might prompt a discussion of ways to achieve greatness in research and teaching at the same time. A more basic point is that Notre Dame's description of herself as a "research institution" confirms the displacement of her historic educational mission by the pursuit of a greatness measured by the politically correct norms of the secular academic: establishment. 
Hesearch is a valid part of the academic enterprise. But researrh itself is not education. Tht~ primary historical focus of Notre Dame had been the nducation of undergraduates in the Catholic tradition, with research and graduate studies playing a balanced and im­portant role in the overall mission of the University. Now, however, Notre Dame is submitting to politically domi­nant trends in the pursuit of prestige as a great "research university." 
While the official rhetoric emphasizes that teaching and research are equally important, the undergraduate students know better. 
And so do the faculty, espe­cially those who are untenured and who realistically conclude that the procurement of grants and the generation of publica­tions count more heavily for purposes than time spent with students. The Student Government report submitted to the Board of Trustees in May, 1989, noted that ".all of the pro­fessors we spoke to believe that research is considered to be much more important than teaching in the hiring, tenure and promotion processes" (p.6). (Emphasis in original) 
The education of under­graduates is moving toward the status of an afterthought at Notre Dame. The undergrads pay the price for the pursuit of research prestige in more frequent mega-sections, more reliance on teaching assistants, and increased difficulty in gaining entrance to courses they want and ought to be able to take. They see a building program that will, for the first time, move major university buildings to the very edge of the campus (as they do at big urban universities which have prestige and, besides, someone paid 33 million dollars for the project). 
The building program has already obliterated a very substantial part of the students' athletic fields (in a "research" university perhaps they will be more interested in spectator sports and coffee houses). We are a residential university with policies, apparently designed in part to avoid University liability, which tend to drive even non­drinking students off campus for social activities. 
Students have to park their vehicles in remote lots with an increase of danger. The security force has been expanded but, through no fault of its own, an increasing part of its job seems to be, not to protect the stu­dents but to enforce against them and others the more 
Charles E. Rice 
Guest Columnist 
complex and pervasive rules re­quired by the pursuit of greatness. Our family has had undergrad students continually at Notre Dame since 1977, and we know that, in these and other respects, there has been a marked deterioration in the academic quality and general tone of the undergraduate ex­perience. 
One thing that students and their families can rely upon is that they will pay an escalating tuition, beyond the rate of inflation, every year. In 1979­80, undergraduate tuition, room and board totalled $5,630. In 1990-91, the figure was $15,745. For 1991-92 the figure will be $17,080. Almost three­fourths of freshmen at Notre Dame in 1990-91 came from families earning $50,000 or more annually, compared with fewer than one-third in 1972. The figure for families earning $100,000 or more is not available. 
Notre Dame is making a very commendable effort to provide financial aid for needy students. The University's financial aid is understandably available, however, only if the student has first taken all the student loans for which he is eligible. But as the tuition increases, so will the number of families who will not be able to cover that cost through financial aid and the student and parent loans for which they are eligible. This is especially true for middle class families who do not qualify as needy. 
The University has chosen to pay for its pursuit of greatness by increasing both tuition and its own financial aid commitment, with the con­sequence that "non-needy" families from the traditional Notre Dame constituency may find themselves unable to bridge the gap from their own resources and borrowing power. The escalating tuition figure itself presumably also deters some such families from even considering enrollment at Notre Dame. 
The long-term trend points toward a Notre Dame where the only students from even middle class families will tend to be ROTC students, racial minorities, scholarship athletes, and faculty children. The University emphasizes that its tuition is in the lower range of the "leading" universities. However, the "leading" uni­versities' general practice of hiking tuition in pursuit of research greatness is itself unjust. 
There are worse offenders, but the question is whether Notre Dame ought to be riding even with the rear echelons of that pack of exploiters. In truth, it is deeply immoral to impose on students and their families the burden of paying for research prestige that bears only a marginal relation, if any, to the education of those students. 
Undergraduates who are not from wealthy families or_on special financial aid .enlerge from Notre Dame wfth a loan commitment so h.tlavy that it impedes a free choice of grad­uate study and career options. This distortion of.career choices occurs as well on the graduate level, especially with law stu­dents. The Law School tuition is set directly by the University. For 1991-92, Law School tuition will rise by $1,115 to $14,095, apart from expenses, compared with $13,505 for undergradu­ates. Law students of middle or lower economic means have to pile law school loans on top of their undergrad debts if they want the sort of legal education which Notre Dame uniquely otTers. 
We make an effort to en­courage students to see the law in light of faith and ethical principle and to use their legal education for the common good. Yet when those students are graduated, their loan burdens frequently oblige them to go to big firms where high pay too often comes at the price of in­sane working hours, marital stress and professional frus­tration. Needless to say, the loan burdens caused by the University's pursuit of research greatness make it difficult for young married alumni to main­tain in their marriages an openness to new life as required by the moral law. 
Advanced research is very expensive. And the focus on research tends toward a "bottom line" preoccupation with grants and money in gen­eral. Notre Dame's endowment reached $605.6 million on June 30, 1990, 15th highest among American institutions of higher learning. It would be helpful if someone in the Administration would explain how it is morally sound to raise tuition substantially beyond the inflation rate every year to pay for the "research" enterprise while the University continues to build a record endowment that is not used to reduce tuition. Of course, that is what the prestige universities do. And if we channel new donations away from endowment and into efforts to hold tuition in line, how can we ever become 14th highest? 
A preoccupation with "research" greatness is one symptom of a university's pursuit of "PC"-political cor­rectness. "PC" has taken on a specific content for the '90s . It is the program of a generation of campus radicals who grew up in the '60s and are now achieving positions of academic influence. If they no longer talk of taking to the streets, it is because they now are gaining access to the conventional weapons of campus politics: social pressure, academic perks (including tenure) and-when they have the administration on their side-outright coercion" ("Taking Offense," Newsweek, Dec. 24, 1990). 
Notre Dame is no latecomer to the pursuit of a generalized version of PC. For decades, the University has sought to be "great" as well as "Catholic," implying wrongly that there is a tension between the two con­cepts. Notre Dame has sought acceptance as a "great university" according to the standards of Harvard, Yale, Stanford, and other institutions which could be described in '90s terms as "politically correct. " 
Charles E. Rice is a professor at the Notre Dame Law School. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Team contests 'Ten Best' List Nuclear energy is not a 
Dear Editor: shortage of creative mental ca­statement, we would then be risk-free oil alternative 
As members of Team #546 pacity, yet two of the twenty-six more than happy to receive the ()lank Gathers, Pete Maravich, teams citing digger Phelps were honor and speak at the awards Dear Editor: plant employees, scientists, Len Bias, Joe Ross, and one on the Top Ten Best Bookstore banquet (there is an awards In the United States today, oil researchers, and executives, other stiff on the court), we Names List. Go figure. banquet isn't there?). is the basic source of energy for wants to increase the amount would like to thank the everything from electricity to of nuclear reactors in the Observer for recognizing our We feel that names like "Four Unfortunately, for all our loyal automobiles. As we continue to country. However, as the name, but we cannot help but Musty Pelts and a Summer's fans out there, we were consume oil in massive quan­number of reactors grows, so feel slighted. We object to be­Eve" and "Hank Gathers, Pete defeated in the first round of tities, it is evident that alterna­do the risks involved. A greater ing given the dubious honor of Maravich,.... " epitomize the bookstore action in a much tive sources of energy must be number of reactors means a having the #1 Worst Bookstore meaning of the Ten Best List. closer game than the 21-3 score found. The public has been greater risk of accidents, which Name for any reason other than That they slipped by the cen­would indicate. But, don't be told for the past few decades translates into great damage to lack of taste. sors is reason enough to ap­too disappointed because next that nuclear energy is a safe, people, animals and the envi­
plaud, but it is the sublime cre­year we return five three-year efficient new source of energy. ronment. 
In the article, a veiled allusion ativity combined with the bookstore starters, four of However, the news of accidents For further information on to a laek of creativity was given nonexistent sense of taste that which have actually scored in a such as Chernobyl and Three nuclear energy-the benefits as as a basis for deciding the 10 truly makes these names bookstore game. Mile Island has caused exten­well as the risks-the Saint worst names. C'mon guys, a among the best/worst. On the sive concern for many, and Mary's Earth Day Committee is 
laek of creativity? We think not. flip side, names that use Digger Our original name, "The rightly so. sponsoring a discussion be­It took great effort to think of Phelps are a sad excuse for a Creamy Cucumbers, Part III: The facts reveal that nuclear tween Dr. Richard Tarara and three other players who are as Top Ten entry, whether Ten The Sticky Revenge", was cen­energy is not the best alterna­Dr. Joseph Miller entitled stiff on the court as Joe Ross, Best or Ten Worst. sored. How can anyone accuse tive energy source available. It "Nuclear Energy: Promise or 
and if we do say, our name us of being tasteless? can be extremely hazardous Peril?" It will be held on shows an enormous amount of In conclusion, we deeply re­and extremely expensive. Wednesday, April 17 at 7:30 wit and artistic presence, and gret that we cannot accept the Geoffrey Culm While the nuclear energy p.m. in 304 Haggar. 
• 

an obvious absence of taste. plaque and certificate that ac­John Fallenstein industry keeps asking for, and companies the Absolute Worst Tom Gibbons receiving, federal funds, other K. Kelly Hartman On the other hand, using Name solely on the grounds of Matt Howell alternative sources of energy Saint Mary's Earth Day Digger Phelps in any name re­that our name was deemed John Sacher are being overlooked and Committee veals not only a wealth of uno­unoriginal. However, if The Team #546 underfunded. The nuclear Aprll16, 1991 riginality but also a serious Observer were to retract their Morrissey Hall energy industry, which includes 

Accent 
page 12 Tuesday, April16, 1991 
SMC professor visits Soviet Union 
By VICKY HOWLIN compounding situation. For in­Accent Writer stance, as many as two or three families will share a one bed­
Cynthia Danford, an assistant room apartment. (The majority professor of nursing at Saint of the population lives in Mary's College, on her trip to apartments, not in houses.) And the Soviet Union this past there is a seven to ten year wait September discovered that the for an apartment. reports of Soviet economic Not surprisingly, the divorce hardships are more that just rate is one of the highest in the rumors. As Danford visited world, with the primary cause Moscow, Kiev and Leningrad for divorce being alcoholism. she witnessed housing short­For instance, the average dura­ages, food shortages and ram­tion of a marriage is nine years pant unemployment. (compared to our four or five), 
Danford participated in a with divorce most likely to oc­Soviet-American social workers cur either within the first three seminar on families and chil­years of marriage or when the dren in contemporary society. spouses reach their forties. A group of about 18 social What compounds this problem workers and six nurses took is that, in many cases, the cou­part in this 10 day visit. ples end up living together after 
When Danford and her group the divorce because of the 
dined, they were given no scarcity of housing. menus-just served the fare Unfortunately, there are vir­their host chose. At one point, tually no social workers in the chicken was served three meals Soviet Union, leaving the prob­in a row, while beet soup was lems of alcoholism, cramped provided everyday. Although quarters, and hostility to be they were given no choice as to reconciled by the people them­what to eat, Danford said, "We selves. Danford comments, were fed incredibly well. You'd "( Soviet government officials ) never know that there was a do not talk of wife or child food shortage." abuse, but... I wouldn't be ing to Danford, "Their (doctors are "absolutely phenomenal." they attain them through inap­
The tour's first stop was surprised if it was substantial." and nurses) rate of pay trans­In order to supplement the propriate channels. Danford Moscow, where they stayed for The suicide rate is also quite lates into about ten dollars a family income, an increasing describes the black market as three days. When Danford got high. At one point, the group's month-on the black market." amount of young people are "almost like a craft show in the off the plane, she described it tour guide said a common way On the other hand, according to dropping out of school in order United States." 
as, "It was like we were picked to commit suicide, "was to jump the government's rate of ex­to deal in the black market.The The desire for such luxuries out of the 1990's and put back out of a window." change, it is nearly half that black market discussed here as denim blue jeans and ci­into the 40's or 50's ... because of Their economic situation is amount in dollars. (This is deals with "cultural goods, garettes is so great that Dan­the dated aircraft and cars, not any more promising. Dan­based on the exchange rate at icons, garnished eggs, bottles of ford states, "A pack of ci­among other things." One of ford states, "The average rate that time.) vodka, stacked dolls, lacquer garettes will get you a cab ride 
their stops in this city included of pay is 216 rubles a month if Another glaring example of boxes, and pen-in-ink draw­around the city." And perhaps the Institute of Sociology, where you work for the government. A the Soviet Union's economic ings ... " The black market that this increase in luxury item Soviets are researching family Soviet citizen can receive 700-plight is their food shortages, or Danford witnessed was actually availability is also related to the abuse and its ties to the 800 rubles a month if he or she more specifically, their food young people selling goods at fact that crime was on the consolidated living and alco­works for the city council." lines. For instance, Danford lower prices than the stores increase when perestroika and holism prevalent in their soci­Ironically, "Both doctors and peered into one grocery store were. Danford recounts, "I met glasnost were implemented. ety. nurses receive about 100 rubles and saw "sparsely stocked a young man in his mid-20's, an (The overall crime rate in the While traveling among these per month, where the poverty shelves ... nothing compared to astrophysics student who Soviet Union is fairly low, com­
three cities, Danford learned a level is at 60 rubles a month." what we have in the United worked on the black market pared to the United States.) great deal about Soviet society The emphasis obviously lies States." Furthermore, selling icons and souvenirs." Danford's journey to the West not only through seminars, but on the welfare of the govern­"Women...after work would What makes this market was educational and en­
also through observation and ment and not necessarily on the stand on cue ( in line) for eggs, "black" is the fact that these lightening, yet her final com­experience. For instance, gov­welfare of the people, when then stand in another line for entrepreneurs are selling their ment was: "I'd like to go back to ernmental restraints on housing doctors and nurses are paid milk ... " And when there was a goods at prices lower than the the Soviet Union. But unless create a tense and stress-such pitiful amounts. Accord-rumor of a food strike, the lines established stores, and that things change I won't." 

Professor Kerby's Civil War 
By TIM ROGERS used to getting up that early 
federate commissary was pa­tive up to here." He draws an Accent Writer from my days in the Air Force. thetic. He pushes a button on explosion on the wall. Students 
As the stragglers find seats I say my morning office and the tape player and the class chuckle. "And in 1861, again and rub sleep from their eyes, start to work on the black­hears a woeful song about the using the same scale, with rifled Rev. Robert Kerby finishes a ci­boards." Confederate soldier's diet. It's a guns which imparted spin to the garette and waits for Seth song about peanuts. Kerby canon balls, artillery was Thomas at the hack of the room First he cleans them. Kerby passes around a bag of peanuts effective up to .... " He walks out to tell him it's time to begin. brings his own sponge so that for the class to sample. Shells the door and his footsteps echo The Civil War starts promptly at the blackboards look like litter the floor. down the hall. "Here," a bass 9:30a.m. blackboards -not greyboards. At 10:30, as the class nears its voice calls. Students laugh. 
Professor Kerby teaches His­Then he draws on them. He end, student attention begins to They are still laughing as the tory 454 "The Civil War Era: draws maps. He draws war­fade. The bag of peanuts is class ends and they file out at 1844-1865." He has done so ships. He draws river systems, empty and the students seem 10:45. since 1972. This semester, mountains ranges and con­uninterested in the economic "I hate guns," Kerby says.
Rev. Robert Kerby
Kerby's Civil War class meets in tested boarders. He draws the blunders of the South. Kerby "War is an absurd way for an old room on the fourth floor Merrimac and the Monitor. shifts gears and trains his grown-ups to spend their time." of the Administration Building. "I have a fundamental dis­for another cigarette before thundering voice on the subject A veteran of the Korean and Professor Kerby teaches in that trust of electronic equipment," class starts. He smokes of Civil War artillery fire. Viet Nam wars, Kerby says he room because it has a lot of says Kerby. "If something can "considerably more" than one "What the South failed to teaches the Civil War "because chalk hoard space. go wrong, it will. So I prefer to pack a day. He picked up the come to grips with was the ad­of a conscious decision to un­draw. Hangmaps are usually habit during long flights as an vent of rifled artillery. This al­derstand the process of war. 
Armed with a thermos full of inaccurate. A map of 1845 is Air Force transport pilot. The lowed soldiers to fire much We seem to keep bumbling into coffee, a tape player, a suitcase different from a map of 1846, cigarettes have lowered his greater distances. The heroic it... containing a Confederate uni­so I draw the one I want. It is naturally deep voice to a James bayonet charge of the Mexican form and a 12-pack of Crayola also psychological warfare on Earl Jones level. He uses it War was no longer effective, yet So long as Professor Kerby chalk, Kerby gets to the class­ignorance. I made the ap­well. Confederate generals still led tries to understand why we room two and a half hours he­palling discovery that some At 9:30 he clears his throat them." humble into wars, students will fore his students. students don't know where with a grumble and the Civil Kerby stands in front of a get a chance to take History
• "I get there at 6:45 because their home state is. If they see War begins. Kerby stands be­board with a scale drawing of a 454. They will straggle into that's when they unlock the that I can freehand an 1845 hind a lectern with the black Mexican War battlefield. class and fmd the blackboards building. Otherwise, I would map of the United States from boards serving as illustrative "In 1847, field artillery was covered with detailed maps and come earlier. I go galumphing memory, then maybe they'll scenery. Peering over his thick effective up to here," Kerby war ships -all done in twelve up there -after I rest at the make an effort to learn some glasses and speaking through says. He draws an explosion colors. They will find Professor third floor, because at my age geography." his white beard, he tells the amid the Mexican ranks. "With Kerby finishing off a cigarette I'm breathing hard by then -After he finishes with the class about life as a Confederate later improvements, using the and the Civil War will continue and I get ready for class. I'm chalk boards, Kerby has time soldier. He says the Con-same scale, artillery was effec-to start promptly at 9:30 a.m. 

-

Accent 
Tuesday, November 20, 1990 page 9 

Saint Mary's hosts talent 
Intriguing images and a personal touch add to art exhibits 
By SARAH HARKER 
Accent Writer 
Bart KastPn, Lisa Lockhart and WarrPn SnPiig arn the artists whosP works arn rur­rPntly on Pxhihit at Saint Mary's. Bart Kastt>n's work !'onsists of color photography with a fpw photo-silkscrPPns in MorPall c;all!·ry, l.isa Lockhart has Lilllt> Tlwatre c;all•~ry filled with abstract oil paints, graphiLP drawings, and mixed­mPdia sculpturP, and Warnm St>Piig's fihPrs constructions are hanging in llamnws c;allnry. 
Bart KastPn, a l !JSS MFA graduatP of tlw Univnrsity of !•lorida. is curnmtly an artist in n~sidnrH'P at tlw I'Pnland School in North Carolina. llis work on display includns mainly eolor photography and a few photo­silkscrnPns. 
Tlw artist intPnds "to capture tlw imaginary lifn hiddnn within a placP." liP dol's this with multipiP f!Xposun• imagery that intPgratPS tlw nvidnnce of man and naturn. Tlw compositions haw dPI'p, rich rolor with one of tlw imagns PXposed lwing a landsrapt•. 
Tlwsf' irnagPs art> intriguing. and draw tlw viPwPr in for closf'r inspl'rtion and at thn sanH• limP. Pach irnagP rt!rnains rlosP within tlw confirws of the frarnt>. 
Tlu• artists attPrnpts to show "tht> intPrtwining of ambiguous layPrs that dPfy rPality. space and limP." An nxampiP of this is an imagP titlf'd "Hkk's Chair." This is a Typn-C print that shows an Pmpty room in the rniddiP of a fomst. Tlw room, obviously old by thn torn blinds and thP pneling paint bPhind a rusty lwatPr, shows a view of what liPs outsidr. tlw windows. lnsidn tlw room arn thn trees. ltHlVPS, and small hills with a rust rolorPd chair in the middle of it, n x JH>sed on to the the room, thrrnfore achieving the artist's goal of dnfying rnality and sparP. 
Tlw nxhibii will remain on display until December 14, in Moreau Gallery. 
The work of Lisa Lockhart, oil paintings, graphite drawings and rnixPd mndia sculpturn, are "pnrsonal abstract narra­tivns ... " and "fragments" of her past. The pair.tings range in size from 16x20" to 5x6' with nach containing a multitude of information achieved by lines both narrow and wide, straight and curvnd with the thickly paintnd surface both hiding and rnvnaling abstract shapes and forms. Eaeh color. in all of the paintings has an inttmsity of its own-from the fiery reds to the midnight blues-that work to nmphasize the abstract quality of each painting. 
The drawings arn mainly graphite that relies on the repetitive motion of the line that moves around in an organic motion to create an image. 
The sculptures are equally as intriguing as the rest of the nxhibit, partly due to the small sizn in comparison to the overwhelming amount of two­dimensional work. The size attracts the viewer's attention, and draws them in to further inspect the surface quality as well as the content of each piece that can be viewed from all sides. 



This exhibit will rflmain on display in Little Theatre Gallery un 
The third exhibit, by Warren Seelig, is titled, "Columns, Wings, and Up the Wall." These sculptures are constructed of thin metal rods and different colored meshed fibers that are suspended from the ceiling and hanging on the wall. The color of the fiber is individual to each piece that is stretched tightly over an entire section and creates a protective layer over the intricate inner structure of each piece. The forms have a stable look to them, yet because they are suspended from the ceiling they become precarious. This forces the viewer to become intensely aware of the space he or she is entering. 
This exhibit will also remain on display in Hammes Gallery until December 14. 

A self-portrait by Bart Kasten is an example of a Type-C print with a photo silkscreen. 
This exhibit by Warren Seelig represents his work with suspended columns. 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1990 
-Flames break away from Canucks in third period 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) -Tim Sweeney ~cored on a breakaway in the third period to trigger the Calgary Flames to a 6-4 victory over the Vancouver Canucks on Monday night. 
Sweeney broke a 4-4 tie with his third goal of the season at 
6:28 on a pass from Mark Hunter, helping Calgary (13-8­
2) end a four-game winless streak. 
Sergei Makarov clinched it when he added his second goal of the game at 11:10 and the Flames pulled within one point of the leading Los Angeles Kings in the Smythe Division. 
Sweeney's first NHL goal came on opening night when he 
scored in overtime  to  beat  
Vancouver 3-2.  
Robert  Reichel,  Joe  

Nieuwendyk and Theoren Fleury scored the other Calgary goals against Canuck goaltender Kirk McLean. 
The Canucks (10-11) got goals from Igor Larionov, Robert Kron, Jyrke Lumme and Garth Butcher on goaltender Mike Vernon. 
Calgary's power play clicked three times in four opportunities as special teams proved to be the difference. Vancouver was 2-5 with the man advantage. 
The Canucks the opened 
scoring after McLean's brilliant save on Fleury's rebound fol­lowing a point shot by AI Macinnis. Larionov beat Vernon with a 25-footer from the left circle at 2:24 of the first period after a drop pass by Greg Adams on the rush. 
Calgary tied the score with rookie Reichel's fourth goal of the season. He fired into an open net at 17 minutes after McLean accidentally poked the puck away from Lumme. 
The teams split six goals in the hectic second period domi­nated by power plays. Each team scored twice with the man advantage. 
Nieuwendyk got his 14th of the season and seventh on the power play before Kron tied the score at 2-2. Kron broke in on the short side to beat Vernon between the legs at 4:42. 
The Flames went ahead 4-2 on goals by Fleury and Makarov, the first on a power play and the second on a re­bound after a poor clearance by Canuck winger Steve Bozek. 
Vancouver rallied on power­play goals by Lumme and Butcher from the point as Vernon was beat on the stick side both times. Butcher's came with 18 seconds left in the sec­ond after he intercepted a clearing attempt by Doug Gilmour. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES  LOST!!! Brown leather jacket from  FORRENT  )  I need your help. My high school teacher is a  My love for you dear Nicole began as a red, red rose. I never knew it was there, but then · oh, yes then  LONG ISLAND BUS FROM HELL!!! The "spirits" of Christmas are  
the coat room at Senior Bar  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  graduate from Indiana University.  it began to blossom before our  set free as 45 New Yorkers  
TYPING AVAILABLE  on Saturday, Nov 17!1!  219-291-7153  He's was pretty cool.  very own eyes. Yours which were  celebrate the end of finals &  
287-4082  vibrant & grousing. More deep  the beginning of break! Lv  
II you have it or know of its  I need at least two tickets to the  with thought & remembrance.  12/22-Rtn 1/14.$1 OO.Janice  
TYPING term  whereabouts please let me  Apts/Dorms-What's the differ·  IU/ND basketball game for him  Who would have thought that our  2993-Joni 1839.Mailer to  
papers/reports/letters/resumes.  know!!  It has lots of sentimental  ence? GET A HOUSE! 6 avail.: 4·  and a friend.  (G.A. or stud tix).  eyes would have met.  Dear  come.  
Pick up & delivery available. 277­ value!!!  6 BRs; Exc.Locations; Safe; Lndy;  Please ....  Nicole, I truly owe my deepest  
5134 Cathy  REWARD!  Character; 233-9947/287-3530.  thanks to that young man who  
ive me a call and we can make a  brought you into my life · for he is  Going to WASHINGTON, DC?  
DOS USERS GROUP  Call Rob at x3306.  deal. Cris @4842  a man amongst men.  Character is  BALTIMORE? NORTHERN VA.?  
FIRST MEETING  1991·92 Reserve your 6,5,4,  truly defined by him.  Tom Faller  PHILADELPHIA? PITTSBURGH,  
November 20@ 7:00 pm Room 328 Comp-Math Bldg.  WANTED  or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or  even? I'm desperately seek· ing a ride in that direction.  
Typing  Wanted: Modem 1200 or 2400  288-5653  I need USC tix! $$ Sean x4327  ALUM TRYING TO LOCATE THREE X-LARGE "THIS IS YOUR  Will share expenses, driving. Please call Chris at 2193.  
Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  for Mac. Chris, 277·9351.  EFFICIENCY APARTMENT, NEAR MEMORIAL HOSPITAL.  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  BR(IIN..." T-SHIRTS SEEN AT MIAMI GAME. PLEASE CALL  
$$FOR BOOKS  FIRST FLOOR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, FURNISHED.  CALL 273-1364  RICK LANE AT 203-254·0280.  Top five quotes from "BONDING, PART II"  
Used Texts bought and sold Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of ND ave and Howard  Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340.  UTILITIES INCLUDED. $220. 233­8647.  PERSONALS  Need ride to KANSAS CITY/ ST. JOE , MO area for Thanks. break. Will help with expenses  5. Can men and women be friends without the sex thing getting in the way?  

 JAIME X 1594  4. Pardon me while I chuckle  
LOST/FOUND  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000  FOR SALE  hi ag  NEED RIDE TO PITT FOR  behind my contemplation. 3. I just called him a man. What  

 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All  THANKSGIVING FLEXIBLE  does that mean?  
Countries, All fields. Free info.  CANNONDALE 10 SPD RACING  Adoption: A caring, devoted  JOANNE 1275 $  2. Don't you hate that door!  
Write IJC, PO Bx 52·  BIKE, LIKE NEW! MUST SELL!  professional couple wishes to give  1. Same reason, different guy!  
LOST:  A  Corona Del Mar CA 92625  CALL JEFF:271-1722  newborn all the advantages of a  ATTN. SMC,  
Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2  loving, secure home.  Expenses  Thanks for everything, Dana.  
somewhere between P.W. and the  NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY 4  paid. Call Joan/John collect (212)  JEFF SCHUMERTH IS FAT,  You're the best! Luv, K  
lake. Please return · great  TGBREAK!please,please call  1-way plane tic to Boston:  496-0661.  HAPPY, AND SINGLE AGAIN!!!  
sentimental value! ......REWARD••••••  Eileen 2845322  leaves S.B. on Wed 11/21 Cheap! call Peter x4013  FINALLY!! I!  JMA, ONE YEAR AGO TODAY.  
call Kate or Amy at 4550.  ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay  I LOVE YOU.  
11121 LOST: A navy blue wool overcoat at the Walsh Formal at Union Station. If found please call 1560. >>>>> L 0 S T <<<<< Notre Dame Class Ring My full name and class  Do you need a roommate for next semester? I live at Indian Springs and I know we can work out a good arrange· ment. If you are interested, call Scott at 272-0403 Chicago Burbsl Chicago Burbs! II anyone is going home today, TAKE ME !II I'm a great  TICKETS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Wealthy Physician to Pay Big Bucks for PENN STATE G.A.'s or STUDS x 1935 ask for Alex $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  on your own private yacht for only $28.50/pplday. Special Air Fares, too!! Call Easy Sailing for details 1 (800)780·4001. What? Plane Ticket Chicago to L.A.  UtRN & l.fAIIN ~Vork with an internarionai computer company, Zenith Data Systems, on your campus as part or a student sales ant! marketing team.  PJG JENNIFER, IF YOU ARE (OR IF YOU KNOW) JENNIFER THE FRESHMAN PRE· MED STUDENT WHO WAS IN NEW ORLEANS ON NOV. 8, PLEASE CONTACT ME AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS. I'VE NEVER HAD SO MUCH FUN  
(91) is inscirbed. Please call Mike at 237-0788 if you have found my ring. Thanks!  conversationalist and I have a wide variety of tapes for your listening pleasure-I'll even pay for gas! Call ROBYN at 2906 and  GHEAT SEATS FOR  Wed 11/21-Tues 11/27 Call x3352 CHEAP!!!!  Guaranteed canaulting 111 pms commilsion, flllxibiB hours, bald resum1, gain  WITH A PERSON AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE YOU AGAIN. YOU ARE A SPECIAL GIRL.  
LOST : a brown leather wallet · go ahead and keep the $20 dollars-just please PLEASE return it!! · no questions will be asked. My  listen to the great message on my answering machine. Give a fellow Bears fan a break, take me back to the N.W. Burbs. You'll be glad you did.  THE ORANGE BOWL 14 Great seats  438 Knott quotes of the week· What's the new flavor of the month? What kind of an animal is a skeet, anyway?  IXIIII'illcl. Fax rnume tr.Z1:Z-875-1732er mail t1 CTI, 5 Wut 18111 St., 10111 R.,Niw Y11'11, NY 10011• cal  BOB PERRY M.S.I. UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDICAL SCHOOL AT HOUSTON 6431 FANNIN ST.  
I.D. was of course in the wallet (so I'm sure you know who I am) but my name is  Need ride to anywhere near Massachusetts today or tomorrow. Have gas $ and can  available for the Orange Bowl game.  M.M., you are a grammatical goddess!  l·BIXI-827-8440.  SUITE G.024 MSMB P.O. BOX 20708 HOUSTON, TX 77225  
Katy X2719  drive standard.  Jay x2290  Please call  Happy 22nd Birthday  
Lorraine  ••pandora Fecko••  GO TO CHICAGO VIA THE BUS  Just when you thought it was safe to go back to LONG  
KNONY RWINE I •How to Judge Any BottJe  ... ,.,... ~~:..  (305) 591-9335 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS  Be sure to make the trip to CJ's tonight for this year's rendition of  WINDY CITY SHUTTLE FRIDAY NOVEMBER 23  ISLAND ... Whitney,  
of Wine In 1!5 Minutes\ 16  CALL (800) 226-8499  "Natural Woman"!  DONT MISS THE BIGGEST  Thanks for an awesome weekend.  
page manual, 1 0 ye~ re­ Have a great day!! I  SHOPPING DAY OF THE YEAR  I had a blast at the dance and the  
eearoh, Invest in yourself,  ORANGE BOWL  other stuff was fun, too. Next time,  
sene $3 to: Flexor lndum-h"'"..-~  LOWER LEVEL  Love,  GET YOUR TICKETS AT THE  though, bring an overnight bag.  
Perryton Parkway Pampa 1X 7906e  No waiting in lines, buy  the present and former  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK, OR  Love, Me  
IMMEDIATELY.  PWchicks  CALL 239-8128 FOR DETAILS  P.S. Butch wants to see you again.  
Tom (303) 773-3357  GET AWAY FOR THE DAY  How about Wednesday?  




lgwebuike acquitted in smuggling case 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Minnesota Vikings kicker Donald lgwebuike's acquittal in a seheme to smuggle heroin from his native Nigeria has put his football career back on track ­and he says he's ready. 
"I want to kick. I want to play next season ... and I want to get on with my life," lgwebuike said as he puffed on a victory cigar outside federal court following Monday's verdict. 
11-.rwebuike could have faced up to 120 years in a federal prison and $6 million in fines if con­victod of conspiracy and drug importation. 
The 32-year-old lgwebuike, known to his fans as "lggy," said he will return to Minneapolis to train for next season. 
The NFL declared lgwebuike exmnpt after he was indicted and he missed the last eight games of the 1990 season. He was left unprotected by the Vikings, but no NFL team claimed him and the Vikings re­tainnd his rights. 
Vikings vice president Jeff 
Diamond said lgwebuike will be welcomed back, but must fight for a starting spot. 
"The intent always was to give him time to get his situation re­solved," Diamond said. "Once it was resolved, we wanted him back." 
Jurors deliberated 5 1/2 hours over two days in a case that fo­cused on lgwebuike's relation­ship with two Nigerian friends who pleaded guilty to their roles in the scheme. 
Defense attorney Frank Winkles blasted the govern­ment's case for relying on tes­timony from one of the admit­ted heroin smugglers and se­cretly recorded phone conver­sations full of oblique refer­ences in which the player was alleged to be talking about drugs. 
"In the end, when everything was said and done, the gov­ernment's case was so full of contradictions," Winkles said. "The type of people they were relying on -nobody would rely on people like that." 
Authorities stumbled onto the 
smuggling attempt last October 
when Madawuba Ibekwe was arrested at Orlando International Airport with nearly half a pound of high­grade heroin packets he had wrapped in electrical tape and swallowed. 

Ibekwe led authorities to an­other friend of the football player's, lbezim Ofedu, who was arrested in Tampa after accepting a heroin shipment from a undercover agent. 
Ibekwe later pleaded guilty to heroin importation charges and faces a possible sentence of eight years in prison. Ofedu, who pleaded guilty to smug­gling conspiracy, faces up to 40 years in prison. 
Ofedu also agreed to cooper­ate with authorities, recording several phone conversations with Igwebuike that became the cornerstone of the government's case. 
Drugs are not specifically mentioned on the tapes, spoken mostly in the Nigerian language lbo, but they show Igwebuike referring to numbers that co­incided with the numbers of heroin packets seized in the case. 
Past Foreman opponents inspired by comeback 
ATlANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ­The night club bouncer knew the preacher could do it. 
That the preacher succeeded is inspiration to the hotel bell­hop. 
Friday night, George Foreman, a former heavy­weight champion-turned-evan­gelist, will at age 42 challenge Evander Holyfield for the title. 
Rooting him on will be Don Waldhelm, a bouncer in a Brooklyn, N.Y.. night club who also works for the New York City Housing Authority, and Levi Forte, a bellhop at the Fountainbleu Hotel in Miami Beach, Fla. 
Waldhelm was knocked out in 
the third round when Foreman 
launched his first pro career in 
1969. In Foreman's 12th pro 
fight that same year, he scored 
a 10-round decision over Forte. 
When Waldhelm heard 
Foreman was coming out of 10 
years of retirement in 198 7, he 
told his brother, "If he doesn't 
lose, he'll get a title shot. The 
guy will get a title shot. The 
public loves a winner." 
"My brother laughed at me," he said. 
The 54-year-od Waldhelm quit boxing after Foreman, while Forte continued until 1978. 
Now Forte's competitive juices are flowing again. 
"If George can do it, I can do it," the 50-year-old Forte, who has 11 grandchildren, said in a telephone interview. 
"Actually, l never retired. I just stopped fighting." 
Forte hopes to fight in May if he can get a license from the Florida State Boxing Commission. 
Forte has no trouble recalling his fight with Foreman. 
"He caught me in the first round and broke three ribs," he said. "I went down. I didn't know the ribs were broken." 
When Muhammad Ali was 
preparing for his upset of 
Foreman for the title in 197 4, 
he sought out Forte at the 
Fountainbleu and asked him, 
"How did you do it?" 
"Stay away from him, just 
stay away or he'll kill you," 
Forte replied. 


The Observer accepts class1fleds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All 
classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
$$$for books 10·4:30 M·Sat.reg. 
hours 1 0·5:30 everyday 
Pandora"s Books 233·2342 
corner of NO Ave. & Howard 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel. has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 mghts with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart. IN 46514. 
TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS. 
UNIVERSITY TEACHING 
EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST 
BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS 
IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 
272·3153. 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up and delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239· 5812 TERRI WELTY. 
LOST: RING WITH 5 SMALL 
DIAMONDS IN SHAPE OF A V. 
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO 
208 KNOTI HALL. 
NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
FOUND: Two rings in the Ladies first floor restroom In O"Shag. Call 
#2170 to claim. 
Lost on Stephan basketball courts: 
Triumph WATCH AND 1934 
CHICAGO SILVER RING II Great sentimental value II 
Please caii-Kath Anne 
X4086 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN"S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1·800-343·8373. 
EARN $300·$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1·615·473-7440 EXT. B 340. 
American AuPalr nanny specialists. Carefully screened families. Full benefits, airfare, good wages. Nanny support system, no fees. Local interview-call Joan 616·684· 1451. 
Moving to Chicago? Female NO grad needs roommate to share 2 bedroom apartment. Must be a non­smoker. If interested, please call Ann at (312) 935-1958. 
rider to S. Fla after finals 
call X4608 John 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? l"m looking for 1·3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment for the summer. l"m interning in the Bend. so I won"t be around much. Call John at 283-3574. 
Sitter for two boys. Age 5 and 3. 
Flexible. own transportation. Sunnymede area. 289-9649. 
STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship Jobs $300 to $900 per week. Summer or year around. Call 9·5 M· F (317) 452·8809 Ext. C4. 
FOR RENT 
GRAD. WEEKEND 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153. 
3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $555 Month + Deposit 
Ten Month Lease 232·3616 
SUBLET TURTLE CREEKTOWNHOUSE (max. 3 people) for summer months Rent: CHEAP! Call Monica x283·4853 

HOUSES FOR LEASE 91·92 Yr. 3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, 
Reasonable Rates. Call at 232·1776. 
An attractive studio in lovely old mansion near N.D. $300 now renting for summer &fall 91 call 2879624 
Best Locations, Best Houses, Have your own yard. 233-9947. 
Quaint furnished apts. near NO. lor summer or fall semesters. -effeciency $225 -1 bedroom $260 -2 bedroom $360 
deposit, references 616­
483·9572 
Female rmmte. (non-smok.) needed for '91-92 at Runaway Bay·call Lisa 259·6841. 
Furnished Summer Apt.-Turtle Creek-2 Bed-Call 283·1747 after 5 
LIVE LIKE KINGS 3 sale houses, priv. parking lot, beach V-ball ct. '91-'92 yr. 234-3831 or 288-5653 
NYC SUMMER SUBLET AVAILABLE. $425/mo. May-Aug. Call Barb (718) 802-0939. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 
N.D. alumnae family for the most attractive. well-maintained apartments on Chicago's North side! Hardwd floors, great closet space. lndry facils., conveniently located to public transp and shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. We'd love to help you out! 
FOR RENT FOR RENT 
BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. $600 FOR FOUR. 10 MONTH LEASE. CALL 271-0373 
Summer Rent Turtle Creek Twn. House Negot. $ Call Dan 283·1248 
Condo for summer rental 
2 bdrm 1 mi. from ND 272-5708 
2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. $650 unfurnished. $800 furnished. Avail. for Summer and 91·92 School yr. Call Michelle at X4970. 
AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR AUGUST "1. FOUR BEDROOM HOME WITH 
TWO COMPLETE BATHS. 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL 
234-9364. 

Sublet apartment lor summer:! 
bedroom, 800+ sq. ft., fully furnished, washer and dryer 
in apartment, pool, tennis courts, etc. Rent negotiable. 
Call 277·2597 
SUMMER RENTAL Turtle Creek 2 Bedroom Apt. for rent after finals. Rent for summer or continue through next year. Call Paul277-2586 
HOUSE FOR RENT 2BEDROOMS $150,$170/MON WALK TO CAMPUS. 
CALL: 287-2159 PAUL. 
NEED ROOMMATE FOR TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR· PLEASE CALL 271-9299. 
HOUSE FOR RENT, 1 TENNANT CURRENTLY RESIDES, NEED MALE ROOMATE, $225 UTIL PAID, NO DEPOSIT, DESIRE GRAD STUDENT, 234-9828­HOME OR CALL MARK AT WORK 234-1221. 
FOR SALE 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. Office near campus. 
"Shelf Stereo System• Dual Cassette, AM/FMst, semi-auto turntable, 2 sheH spkrs $80 or b.o. Matt x2004 89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage­45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty excellent buy. call Pat 288-5678 
ONE-WAY TIC TO SAN DIEGO, 5/19 FRM CHI. $150 OR B/O.CALL MIKE 288·7797. 
FOR SALE: One Way ticket to L.1. Islip airport Sat. 5/11 $100 Erin x4492 
IRISH PUB NEAR N.D.-3 WAY LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121 SOUTH BEND. IN 46624 OR CALL (219) 277-8526 SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL JOHN X2325. 
FOR SALE: Two Paul Simon tickets. Floor seats, great location. Call: Scott at 234-1 048 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS! Call Jerry x1069 
PERSONAL 
Resumes....Professional quality 272-5667. (Tom Williams) 
IBM. COMMODORE, OR APPLE. Cash paid for all makes of Computers and Software. Computer software for IBM and IBM compatible, Commodore or Apple, $2 each. WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 
NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and trade, gold, silver, diamonds, jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, camcorders, cameras, air conditioners, microwaves, tools, Nintendo"s, computers. OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 
ADOPTION: Happily married loving couple wish to adopt. We promise a fine education, financial security, and the best of all our hearts. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call Tom and Debbie collect 212­866-8315. 
I got it. Come. And be my baby. 
Kel, Mel and Murph, Hi.This will probably get there faster than any letter. Take care and have fun. I have tons of news to teli-1'11 write soon. Love,L 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor 
and teacher, longing to share our 
love with newborn. We'll give your baby a caring, warm, and happy 
home. Expenses paid. Call Carol 
and Frank collect 212·874-3537. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00am. Train and jump the same day. 
Modern equipment and training 
programs. Licensed instructors. 
FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 
948·2665. 

II!IIJUNIORS. JUNIORS! II II 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND 
DISK TO CAREER AND 

PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW. 
DEADLINE SOON. 

IIIIIJUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND 
DISK TO CAREER AND 

PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW. 
DEADLINE SOON. 

Hey Bill Wardell. ...... It's Laura Ashley I I bet you can't guess who this is from II warned you about personals I You"d better watch out for them! 
GOOD QUESTION @BRIDGET'S FINAL BAR APPEARANCEI THURSDAY AT 1OPM 
B and BoNe FoReSt E d THURSDAY s at P CLUB 23 i N 
s 

DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE 
Children begin by loving 

their parents: after a time 
they judge them; rarely, 

if ever, do they forgive them. 
signed, Independence, Iowa 

PICTURES PLUS 
VIDEO INSTANT PHOTOS It's more than a picture it's an EVENTI 
First floor La Fortune, O'Hare Am. 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATIOO EXCHANGE" STUDENTS: Going home for the summer? Need a place to stash your stuff? We have the place for youI JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE 272·2400 
OFF-CAMPUS SENIORS: Pick up Senior Formal Bids today from 3·6 in the Senior Class Office. 
IIIIIJUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII 
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. DEADLINE SOON. 
SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates and facility. Call Store-More Mini· Warehouse 654-3636. 
Cath"leen"... I had an exceptiOnally fascinatingly. exhilarating evening of enchantment (a great time) Sat. night. Your presence at this truly festive event brought brilliant radiance to the night (it was really neat going with you.) 
See ya soon. · That Pesky Wabbit 
Now we've gone and done it II Infinite guys and a cool million just around the corner. Is this an achievement or just a final expression of patheticness77 What next... chosh? 
nushka, congrats on HLS·I am so proud of you I I'm excited about our future in Chicagollluv you, bunny 
Dan Wagner, YOU WERE JUST NAMED THE 1991-92 NO LEPRECHAUN Ill What do you have to say for yourself? "PROPERII" Congratulations, Your many fans and friends. 
hi 
Senior Formal Bid for sale Call Sarah x284-5191 
M I I'M A SHY FROSH K BUT I ALWAYS E ADMIRED YOUR 
c 
A FANTASTIC BODY L PLEASE SATISFY L MY DESIRES AT A X4055 N 


SCOREBOARD
page 14 
NATIONAL LEAGUE TRANSACT! ONS BOOKSTORE RESULTS 


NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
East Division  
w  L  Pet.  
N-York  6  2  .750  
Chicago  4  3  .571  
St. Louis  4  3  .571  
Philadelphia  3  4  .429  
Pittsburgh  3  4  .429  
Montreal  2  6  .250  
Weal Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  
San Diego  5  1  .833  
Houston  4  3  .571  
Atlanta  2  3  .400  
Cincinnati  2  3  .400  
Los Angeles  2  3  .400  
San Fran cisco  2  4  .333  

Monday's Games 
Late Games Not Included 
St. Louis 5, Montreal4 
Chicago 5, Phlladephla 4 
N-York 9, Pittsburgh 3 
Houston 3, Atlanta 1 
Cincinnati at San Diego, (n) 
Los Angeles at San Francisco, (n) Tuesday's Games 
(LaCoss 0-0), 10:35 p.m. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaa.t Dlvlalon 
w  L  Pet.  
Toronto  6  2  .750  
Cleveland  4  3  .571  
B~lmore  3  3  .500  
Milwaukee  3  4  .429  
Detroh  2  4  .333  
Boston  2  5  .286  
N-York  2  5  .286  
Weal Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  
Chicago  5  a  1.000  
Calnomla  5  1  .833  
Oakland  5  1  .833  
Kansas Chy  4  2  .667  
Minnesota  2  4  .333  
Texas  1  4  .200  
Seattle  0  6  .000  
Monday'a  Games  

Late Games Not Included Cleveland 1, Boston 0, 13 Innings Chicago 6, N-York 5 B~lrrore 7, Milwaukee 2 Toronto 4, Detroit 3 Oakland at CaiKornla, (n) Minnesota at Seattle, (n) 
Tuesday's Gamea 
Kansas Cny (Appier 1·0) at Boston (Darwin 0-1) Texas (KBrown 0-1) at Cleveland (King 1·0) Chicago (M.Perez 0-0) at N-York (Eiland O.Q) Toronto (Wells 1-0) at Detroit (Gullickson 0-0) 
+American Red Cross +
Minnesota (Erickson 0-1) at Seattle (Holman 0­1) Oakland (Siusarskl 1-0) at Calnornla (langston 1-0) 
The Student Union Board Presents 
Dr. Alice von Hildebrand 
Emeritus Profe~'"' \ l ~'Osophy 
Author of Greek Culture·,.. ~ \.-~the H_uman Sp~nt, and Introduction to ,... ~ ~.,gwn and vanous other works. Dr. von Hiler. ~~ ~u and taught extensively throughout the 
~ _, ~urope and South America 
Women in the Church 

8:00 PM Tuesday, April 16 Library Auditorium 
IGHT 
BASEBALL 
National LeagueGB 

NL-Suspended Kevin Mitchell, San Francisco Giants outfielder, for two games and fined him an 1 112 
undisclosed arrount for charging the rround In a 1 112 
game April tO. 2112 

ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned Paul Marak, 2112 pitcher, to Rlchrrond of the International League.4 
Purchased the contract of Jerry Willard, catcher, 
from Rlchrrond. GB 

PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Placed Bob Walk, 
p~cher, on the 15-day disabled list. Recalled 1112 
Orlando Merced, first baseman, from Buffalo of the 2112 
American Association. 2112 
2112 
BASKETBALL 3 
World Basketball League 

FLORIDA JADES-Acquired the rights to Eric 
Brown, forward, from the Memphis Rockets for the 
rights to James Blackmon, guard. Signed Jeff 
Fryer, guard, and Tracy Moore, forward. 

FOOTBALL National Football League CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed Darryl Sims, defensive lineman. DETROIT LIONS-Signed Don Overton, running 
Vaughn, wide receiver, and Eric Wilson,  
linebacker.  
HOCKEY  
National Hockey League  
BUFFALO SABRES-Sent Kevin Hailer and Ken  
Sutton, defensemen; Darren Shannon, forward;  
and Darcy Wakaluk, goa~ender, to Rochester of  
the American Hockey League.  
GB  NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Corey Millen,  
center, and Steven Rice, right wing, to Binghamton  
1112  of the American Hockey League.  
2  VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Signed Pat Quinn,  
2112  president and general manager, to a four-year  
3  contract. Sent Garry Valk, right wing, to Milwaukee  
3112  of the International Hockey League.  
3112  
SOCCER  
GB  American Profe..lonal Soccer League  
SAN FRANCISCO BAY BLACKHAWKS­ 
112  Signed Danny Pena, defender.  
112  
1112  COLLEGE  
3112  NOTRE DAME-Announced the  
4  retirement of Digger Phelps, men's  
5112  basketball coach.  
ST. MARY'S, CALIF .-Announced the  
resignation of Rick Sutton, sports information  
director. Named Claude Hagopian Interim sports  
Information director.  
SAMFORD-Named John Brady men's  
basketball coach.  

Monday'a Reaulta The Master's d. Country Western Afro's, 21-14 Malicious Prosecution d. Darkslde: The Final Chapter, 21-6 Shamrna, Lamrna. .. d. The Power Broker, 21·5 Julllus and 4 Others ... d. Mad Mexican Mixers, 21­11 Carolina Connection d. Omar y Los ... , 21·11 Apocalypse d. Vinnie, 21-15 nme For Us To Fly d. Lightin' ~. 21-16 The Door Knobs d. Your Mom Can1 Wrestle .. ., 21·7 Digger, Hussein ... d. Antonio's Secret, 21-7 Dancing w/ Ohlymeyers d. Bad Axes, 21-12 Peach's Latenne All-Stars d. Estimated Profits, 21­
9 

Team 556 d. The Koozie's, 21-8 Goory Train d. Meatless Baked Ziti, 21-19 
J. Cr-... d. Saddam, Miami ... , 21-12 4 Musty Pens ... d. TheN-Kids ... , 21-10 5 Man Acoustical Jam d. Team 475, 21-14 In Bounds, In Range d. 5 Glorious Mysteries, 21-17 Just Chlllin' d. Armed & Dangerous, 21-12 Where The Sun Don1 Shine d. Honky Breath, 21-6 Ml<ey Ll<e's ~d. High Rollers, 21-18 Barking CIHI Chickens d. Pale Rider Lives, 21-2 DeBartolo's H~men d. Saddam Hussein ... , 22-20 The Cheggers d. You Gatta Rp.., 21-16 5 Guys That Can1 Score d. Jane Doe, 21-11 Spider Agnum P.l. d. Team 664, 21-7 1992 Olympic ... d. 5 Guys Who Hate Bill, 21-12 Dawgs Turned Dirty d. Flamuche 5, 21-11 Chlllln' w/ Frozen Roman d. I Thought We Told ... , 21-12 Who are We Kidding d. Team Geek, 21-6 Toenail Clippings d. We Didn't Want ..., 21-12 NO's Most Wanted d. Jerry's Kids, 21-3 TA's From Hell d. Crunch Time, 21-12 Senior Bar d. Bad Boys, 21-4 Four Beavers d. Come Slam ... , 21·9 Four Men and Ken d. Brick Yard .. ., 21-17 Team 537 d. Suck Me, 21-8 Team 51 d. Chicks Dig Us, 21-5 Team 231 d. Tatonlca, 21-14 Team 373 vs. Rlcernan's Revenge, Rescheduled Bumblln', Sturrbiln', Rurrblin' d. The Manson Famlly,21-6 Gina's Pizza D. Ben-Wa BasketbaUs, 21-3 We Can Score Quicker d. Ml<e'li Team, 21-15 4 Genuine's d. Struggle wnh Our Name, 21-9 Victor Kiam d. Omar's Carnal Jockey's, 21-19 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Patrick Division 

At Pittsburgh New Jersey 0 0 0-<l Pittsburgh 2 1 1-4 
First Period-!, Plnsburgh, Hrdlna 1, 6:17. 2, Pittsburgh, M.Lemleux 3 (Recchl), 13:0S (pp). Second Perlod-3, Pittsburgh, Hrdlna 2 (Bourque, Jagr), :29. Third Perlod-4, Pittsburgh, Colley 2 (Pietrangelo), :56. Shots on goal-New Jersey 7-6-14-27. Plnsburgh 17-11-8--36. Goalies-New Jersey, Terrerl. Pittsburgh, Pietrangelo. A-16,164. 
Women's Bookstore 5 Women w/ Nell Fitzgerald d. We Swish and Never Choke, 17-15 One Last Shot d. Just Can1 Handle ~. 21·9 5 Reasons Women ... d. Just to say we Played .. ., 21·1 Team 30 d. Bernard, Harold, ..., 21-1 Panic Hardware d. The Generics, 21-18 Smoolh, Swift & Sweaty d. Hey Loopo,. . ., 22-20 Hooked on Foniks d. Those Who Can Please Do, 21-13 Nomands, Indians, Saints d. We Hope Nobody ... , 22·20 Our Cat Is in Heat d. Better Off Wetter, 21-6 Fast Break d. H.W.A., 21·5 C.J.'s Plb d. We May Not Be Able To Play ... , 21-0 5 Women Who Are Scared ... d. Five Seniors, 21·1 Four Athletes and a Golfer d. 5 Fab Farley Chicks, 
21-6 

NBA STANO INGS 
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Atlantic  Division  
w  L  Pet  
y-Boston  56  22  .718  
x-Phlladelphla  43  35  .551  
x-N-York  37  42  .468  
Washington  29  49  .372  
N-Jersey  24  54  .308  
Miami  23  55  .295  
Central  Division  
y-Chlcago  58  21  .734  
x-Detrolt  48  31  .608  
x-MIIwaukee  47  32  .595  
x-Atlanta  42  36  .538  
x-lndlana  39  40  .494  
Cleveland  30  49  .380  
Charlotte  24  54  .308  

WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Division 

w L Pet x-San Antonio 52 26 .667 x-Utah 51 27 .654 x-Houston 50 27 .649 Orlando 28 50 .359 Minnesota 27 52 .342 Dallas 26 52 .333 Denver 19 59 .244 Paclnc Division y-Portland 61 18 .772 x-LA Lakers 56 22 .718 x-Phoenlx 52 26 .667 x-Golden State 41 38 .519 x-Seattle 40 38 .513 LA Clippers 31 47 .397 Sacramento 23 55 .295 x-cllnched playoff berth y-cllnched division title 
Monday'• Games 
Late Games Not Included 
Chicago 103, Milwaukee 94 
Minnesota 112, Sacramento 94 
Houston at Seattle, (n) 
Dallas at LA Lakers, (n) 


o/ICS 

iiiiiiiiis~iiiiiiiii 
2BUCK 
TIJESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 

113 DIXIE' WAY .-rH 
....,..,._...... 

GB  L10  Struk  Home  Away  Conf  
6-4  Won  2  35-5  21-17  35-15  
13  5-5  Lost  2  28-12  15-23  31-19  
19 112  3-7  Lost  1  19-20  18-22  26-25  
27  3-7  Won  2  20-18  9-31  21-31  
32  2-8  Lost  1  19-20  5-34  16-35  
33  3-7  Lost  2  17-22  6-33  14-36  
6-4  Won  1  34-6  24-15  39-12  
10  6-4  Lost  1  31-9  17-22  31-20  
11  5-5  Lost  2  32-8  15-24  32-20  
15112  5-5  Won  1  29-10  13-26  25-26  
19  5-5  Won  1  28-12  11-28  25-26  
28  5-5  Won  1  20-18  10-31  21-31  
33 1/2  5-5  Won  1  16-23  8-31  15-35  
GB  LID  Struk  Home  Away  Conf  
8-2  Won  1  31-8  21-17  33-18  
1  5-5  Won  1  33-5  18-22  35-17  
1112  7-3  Won  1  30-9  20-18  31-20  
24  3-7  Lost  3  21-17  7-33  23-33  
25 1/2  5-5  Won  2  20-20  7-32  17-38  
26  1-9  Lost  7  18-21  8-31  15-37  
33  1-9  Lost  8  16-23  3-36  11-42  
10-0  Won  14  34-5  27-13  40-13  
4112  8-2  Lost  1  31·8  25-14  38-14  
8112  5-5  Lost  1  30-9  22-17  32-20  
20  5-5  Won  2  28-11  13-27  25-28  
20 112  8-2  Won  5  27-12  13-26  26-26  
29 1/2  7-3  Won  1  23-17  8-30  26-26  
37 1/2  4-6  Lost  2  22-17  1-38  16-35  
Tuesday's Games  

Miami at Charlotte, 7-:sJ p.m. Boston at Detro«. 7:30 p.m. Indiana at N-Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Washington, 7:30p.m. Philadelphia at N-York, 8:30p.m. LA Clippers at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Phoenix at Denver, 9:30 p.m. Houston at Portland, 9:30 p.m. Sacramento at ~ah. 9:30 p.m. 
HAPPY 22nd 
~~[10~[Q)&g 
LOVE, Mom, 
Dad, 

Frank + Brent 
Look But Don1 Touch d. In Over Our Heads, 21-7 Book of Ruth d. S~y Sewenches, 21-4 We're No Angels d. Hurt Chicks, 21-8 Dee Money ..., d. Girl Scouts Gone Bad, 11-5 Team 131 d. We're Psycho .. ., 21-8 Censored Again d. All But I Got Whammled, 21-3 5 Gins From Howard d. Mighty Ninja Warriors. 21-2 Circles Make Us Dizzy d. Grubs, 21-16 Montezuma's Revenge d. The Economy Sucks & So do We, Forfe« Turlet Police d. The Might Not Be Giants, Forfeit Aunt Flow's Nieces d. Se 'dunk' lion, 21-11 5 Softballs In Search of ... d. Hoosier Hysteria, 21-6 EZ4U2NV d. Dr. J and the M & M Cookies, 21-17 Hoosier Lawyers d. They Can Make Passes .... 21-8 Tight Ends d. P .E.-thetlcs, 21-9 Sexual Chocolate d. Rather Be Sleeping, 21-14 Hoop's Earrings d. Digger's Resignation, 21-2 
Philadelphia (DeJesus 0-0) at Chicago (Harkey 0-1), 2:20p.m. St. Louis (Hill 1-0) at Montreal (Mahler 0-1 ), 7:35 p.m. N-York (Whnehurst Hl) at Plnsburgh (Tomlin 0-0), 7:35p.m. Houston (Harnisch 1·0) at Atlanta (lelbrandt 0­1), 7:40 p.m. Cincinnati (Charlton 0-1) at San Diego (Benes 0­0), 10:35 p.m. Los Angeles (R.Martlnez 1·0) at San Francisco 
back. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Stacey Bailey, wide receiver. 
NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Signed Vaughan Johnson, linebacker, to a four-year contract, and Jim Wll<s, defensive lineman, and Hoby Brenner, tight end, to two-years contracts. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Released J.T. Smhh, wide receiver. Canadian Football League 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Willie 

Tuesday, April 16, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Penguins blank Devils 4-0; Blues, Flames fighting for survival 
(AP)-Jiri llrdina and Frank Pietrangelo spent most of the stretch drive watching as their tnammates led the Pittsburgh Penguins to their first-ever di­VISIOn championship. On Monday night, both got their chance in the spotlight. 
llrdina, a seldom-used for­ward, had two goals and Pietrangelo, a backup goal­tender, stopped 27 shots as Pittsburgh blanked the New Jersey Devils 4-0 in the seventh and deciding game of their Patrick Division semifinal series. 
The Penguins will meet the Washington Capitals, third­place finishers during the regu­lar season, in the division finals beginning Wednesday night at Pittsburgh. 
The Penguins got an emotional lift when All-Star defenseman Paul Coffey, expected to be out for the rest of the playoffs, was in the starting lineup wearing a special face guard to protect an injured eye. Coffey's goal early in the third period wrapped up the scoring as the Penguins won for only the second time in nine attempts in the deeisive game of a playoff series. 
"Having Coffey in the lineup gave them a big lift," Devils coach Tom McVie said. "He's one of the top two or three players in the world. His pres­ence certainly had a psycholog­ical advantage." 
"I wasn't even thinking about playing when I went to the doc­tors (Monday) morning," Coffey said. "They said there was no risk in playing and that any injury would be a new injury. I got a little nervous and scared about two hours (before game time), but I didn't think about it when I was playing." 
Hrdina and Mario Lemieux, who did not play the last two periods due to back spasms, gave Pittsburgh a 2-0 lead after one period. 
The Penguins made it 3-0 just 29 seconds into the second pe­riod when Phil Bourque skated down the left-wing boards and threaded a pass through the crease to Hrdina, who beat Chris Terreri to the glove side. Hrdina took only one shot in the first six games of the series and had just one two-goal game during the season. 

Pietrangelo, who started and won Game 6 when Tom Barrasso was unable to play due to a shoulder injury, had little to do in the first two peri­ods as the Devils managed only 13 shots. New Jersey appeared deflated and tentative after a questionable call by referee Bill McCreary late in the second pe­riod of its 4-3 loss in Game 6 disallowed Laurie Boschman's apparent tying goal. 
"Instead of kicking them when they were down, we let them get back into it when we let them win Game 6," Devils defenseman Ken Daneyko said. "We didn't get anything going all night and it didn't get any better." 
"When we came home after winning Game 5 (in Pittsburgh), I had no doubt that we would be playing in the second round," McVie said. "We lost the series Saturday in New 
You cansaymanythings aboutMacintosh. 


You can talk about how simple the Apple• Macintosh• computer is to use. Or how it can think the way you think. Or how compatible it is with other computers. 
But think again when the word "expensive" comes to mind. Because it's just not true any more. 
Introducing the Macintosh Classic• computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it has all the capabilities you need to handle basic applications, such as 
analysis. The Classic is acompletely integrated Macintosh system. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect-such as built-in networking and the Apple SuperDrive·disk drive, which lets the Classic read froin and write to Ms-OOS, OS/2, and Prooos• ftles. 
Stop in today. We'll show you how it's possible for nearly anyone to afford a Macintosh. Comfortably. 
word processing and spreadsheet NOTHE DA:\IE 
COi\IPUTEH STOJn: 
orr.rc or University Computing Computing Cenler(Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 • 5:00 
01910......c.oo.po..loc. ---....~.....,...---...----,·~--~·,----·
......a.p..loilsoollo"a---oi-~IMII----oi--lladilooo~ 
Jersey. We took home ice ad­vantage away from them twice and gave it back twice." 
Dr. Charles Burke, the Penguins' team physician, said Lemieux felt much better after icing his back during the final two periods and would probably play Wednesday. Lemieux's problem was related more to the playing every other day and the constant travel than his earlier problems, Burke said. 
"He has a greater risk (of spasms) because of his history, but he was 50 percent better after the game," Burke said. "He'll be better (Tuesday) and even better the next day." 
On Tuesday night, the St. Louis Blues and Calgary Flames will try to make NHL history. 
Both teams have rallied from 3-1 deficits to force deciding games in their best-of-7 series -St. Louis vs. Detroit and Calgary vs. Edmonton. The Blues and Flames will try to cap their comebacks at home and join seven other NHL teams that have won playoff series after trailing 3-1. 

"Both teams are on equal footing now," Detroit coach Bryan Murray said after St. Louis evened the Norris Division series with a 3-0 victory Sunday. "But they're in their building and that gives them an advantage." 
Theoren Fleury scored in overtime at Edmonton after in­tercepting a pass by Mark Messier, giving Calgary a 2-1 victory over the Oilers in Game 6 of the Smythe Division series. 
"We've got to forget about it now, regroup and go at it for Game 7," Messier said. "It should be a great game." 
The winner of the Calgary­Edmonton series will advance to the division final against the Los Angeles Kings, who elimi­nated Vancouver in six games. The St. Louis-Detroit winner will play the Minnesota North Stars, who upset the Chicago Blackhawks in six games. 
St. Louis star Brett Hull said the Blues didn't get discouraged after losing three of their first four games to Detroit. 
Magic surpasses Big 0 in assists 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Magic Johnson surpassed Oscar Robertson as the NBA's all-time assist leader, getting 19 to lead the Los Angeles Lakers over the Dallas Mavericks. 
Johnson tied the record with 
6:46 left in the second quarter, setting up James Worthy for a short jump shot. He got his record-breaking ninth assist with 5:44 left in the period, lobbing a pass to Terry Teagle, who made a 15-foot jumper from the right basline. 
Worthy led the Lakers with 23 points and Teagle finished with 
21. Johnson scord only seven points and had nine rebounds and 11 turnovers. 
Derek Harper led the Mavericks with 29 points, 19 of them in the fourth quarter, while Herb Williams added 22 points and 11 rebounds. 
Rockets 97, Sonlcs 93 
SEATTLE -Otis Thorpe scored 28 points, including the go-ahead basket with 6:05 to play, and the Houston Rockets beat Seattle 97-93 to pull into a second-place tie with Utah, one game behind San Antonio in the Midwest Division title chase. 
The Rockets, 24-6 since the All-Star break, and Jazz are 51-27 overall to San Antonio's 52-26. Each team has four games remaining. 
Giant suspended 
NEW YORK (AP) -Kevin Mitchell of the San Francisco Giants was suspended for two games and fined an undisclosed amount by National League president Bill White on Monday for his role in a brawl on April 10 at San Diego. 
The suspension begins Tuesday, when the Giants play Los Angeles. 
Mitchell, whose five home runs leads both leagues, was brushed back by Padres pitcher Bruce Hurst in the fourth in­ning of last Wednesday's game after hitting a home run in his first at bat. Mitchell was re­strained from going after Hurst following the brushback pitch, but charged the mound when the next pitch bounced and hit him in the foot. 
Mitchell hit Hurst with a body block before being tackled by the Padres' Fred McGriff and was ejected from the game. 


~~-------­
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, April 16, 1991 
Key pitches two-hitter as Jays soar 
SPORlSBRIEFS Gaetti leads Angels past Twins; Gibson nails 2HR 
•Sports Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All 
briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 
Rangers 15, Orioles 3 
(AP)-Jimmy Key felt in tip­
•Attention campus referees: Anyone interested in
Angels 9, Twins 4 ARLINGTON, Texas-Nolan 
top shape going into Sunday's officiating Bookstore Basketball games should contact MikeMINNEAPOLIS -Former Ryan beat Baltimore for the game against Milwaukee. He Flecker at 283-3024, 1126 Grace. $8/game. 
Twin Gary Gaetti, booed at the first time since April 20, 1976,felt even better when Toronto 
•Applications are being accepted for Observer sports
Metrodome during the week­allowing two hits and strikingscored six runs in the second writing positions. Give your name, campus address and phone
end, drove in four to help out nine in seven innings as
inning. 
number to Dave Dieteman between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. at theCalifornia beat Jack Morris and Texas pounded the Orioles. 
Key pitched a two-hitter and Observer office, third floor of LaFortune. 
Minnesota. Ryan (1-1) got off to a shaky
rookie Mark Whiten singled 
It was also a big day for Luis start, giving up a three-runtwice in the six-run second as •Attention Crew Members. a mandatory meeting will bePolonia. The diminutive out­homer to Sam Horn in the firstthe Blue Jays beat the Brewers held Wednesday April 17 at 7:30 pm in 127 Nieuwland. Thefielder had three hits, scored inning. But he settled down andat the SkyDome. 
meeting is to pay for Madison and finalize Rent-A-Rower, sothree runs and stole three allowed only Glenn Davis' third­At 5-2, the Blue Jays are off to bring your checkbooks. 
bases as the Angels improved inning single after that as thetheir best start since the club's to 5-l. It equals California's Rangers broke a season-open­•A guest speaker will be at the Boathouse tonight at 6:30inaugural season in 1977. 
best start even, also achieved in ing four-game losing streak. 
pm. Everyone is encouraged to attend, and lessons will be at 1970 and 1974. Kevin Reimer and Brian 
4:00. Chuck Finley (2-0) extended a Downing hit homers for Texas, 
•Tune to WVFI 640 AM tonight at 8:00 to hear Irish
Phelps 
personal winning streak to which broke the game open 
basketball player Keith Tower and former teammates Joe seven games over the Twins by with a four-run rallies in the 
Frederick and Jamere Jackson discuss the resignation of Digger continued from page 20 pitching seven-plus innings, al­sixth and seventh innings. 
Phelps and possible replacements, and call in with your own lowing five hits and four runs. Jeff Robinson (0-1) lost his 
thoughts.

mored to have been rocky at 
•Stepan Courts will be taken at 7:00 pm on Tuesday andMark Eichhorn pitched the final first start for Baltimore, giving times, a charge Phelps denied. 
Wednesday for the Women's Bookstore Final 32 round. 
"That really bothers me when two innings. up five runs on five hits in two­•Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be playing softballpeople say this about Dick plus innings. 
tomorrow, Wednesday, at 4:30. If interested, meet in front of
Rosenthal and Digger," said 
Stepan Center. Anyone with questions should call Mark Zoia at
A's 7, Mariners 6 
Phelps. 
283-1606.

Finally, Phelps pointed to a OAKLAND, Calif. -Seattle
Royals 5, Yankees 3 
quote he made several years blew a chance to halt Dave
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Kirk 
•Prospective NVA Aerobic Instructors: Applications are
ago, about when he planned to Stewart's 20-game April win­
Gibson hit two homers and 
being accepted this week for the 1991-1992 school year. Men
ning streak as Oakland rallied
leave the game. 
drove in four runs and Mike and women experienced in all types of aerobics instruction are"It's funny. Jim Davis, last from a five-run deficit to beat
Boddicker gave up no runs in encouraged to apply. For more information contact Diannayear, caught onto it in Houston. the winless Mariners. 
eight innings as Kansas City 
Patnaude in the NVA office at 239-5965.
He said, 'Coach didn't you at Mark McGwire's two-out sin­
beat New York. 

one time say you were going to gle in the ninth inning off re­
Gibson, who signed as a free •Correction: The correct score for Adworks vs. Saddam,leaye this game by the age of liever Mike Jackson (0-1) drove
agent with the Royals over the Digger, and 3 other guys with no offense should have been 21-850?"' said Phelps, who will turn home Dave Henderson from
winter, homered in the first and instead of 21-7. 
second base with the game­
50 in July. 
eighth innings. His last two­
winning run to give the /\s the
He also said that he had homer game was for Los 
•Final sign-ups for An Tostal Slam Dunk contests (9 and
victory and drop the Mariners
made a commitment to his 
Angeles at Chicago on July 14, 10 foot rims) are today at the SUB office. Call Jeff Oakey atto 0-6.
family to only coach 20 years at 1988. 
283-1068 for further information.
the University of Notre Dame, Rookie Dana Allison, the /\s
In two starts for the Royals,
and decided only last week that fourth pitcher, worked the fmal L------------------------'
Boddicker (1-1) has given up 
inning for his first win. 
he would retire. one earned run in 17 innings. Cardinals 5, Expos 4 
"When I was making that de­The Mariners led 5-0 after two Astros 3, Braves 1 MONTREAL -Pedro
The Yankees loaded the bases 
cision to retire from coaching, innings, but the /\s tied it 6-6 in ATLANTA -Jeff Bagwell's 
Guerrero hit two homers, in­
off Mark Davis in the ninth in­
I (was) doing it in moment of sixth to preserve Stewart's first major-league homer, a cluding a leadoff shot in the
ning and Jeff Montgomery re­
celebration. There's nothing to streak. Stewart is 16-2 lifetime two-run shot in the ninth in­ninth inning that sparked a
lieved with one out. Pinch­
against Seattle. ning, gave the Houston Astros a
look over my shoulder to. three-run St. Louis rally, as the
hitter Mel Hall then cleared the 3-1 victory over the Atlanta
"It's time to move into the Cardinals beat Montreal in the
bases with a double. 
Braves on Monday night. 
next decade for me." Expos' home opener. 
Closed Sections as o  
7:00 p.m. 4/15/91  HA  ;jl);j  U!>  U~!>l)  ENGL  415C 01  2802  HIST  393  01  2507  PHIL  231  01  2980  THEO  251  01  0082  
AGGT  231  01  0265  BA  391 01  0212  ENGL  416E  01  2803  HIST  394  01  1203  PHIL  232  01  2528  THEO  251  02  0081  
AGGT  231  04  0268  BA  391 02  0211  ENGL  416F  01  2804  liPS  310  01  3236  PHIL  235  01  1671  THEO  253  01  0148  
AGGT  231  05  0269  BA  391  03  2223  ENGL  416Z  01  2805  LAW  631A  01  1286  PHIL  239  02  1029  THEO  260  01  0147  
AGGT  231  10  0274  BA  490 04  0534  ENGL  418C 01  2806  LAW  631B  01  1287  PHIL  244  01  2530  THEO  261  01  0146  
AGGT  231  11  0275  BA  490 05  0515  ENGL  425  01  2807  LAW  631C  01  1288  PHIL  246  01  1672  THEO  262  01  2358  
AGGT  231  15  0279  BA  490 06  0516  ENGL  428A  01  2810  LAW  6310  01  1289  PHIL  246  02  1673  THEO  265  01  0145  
AGGT  231 16  0280  BIOS  304L 01  0528  ENGL  435  01  2812  LAW  633  01  1295  PHIL  246  03  2981  THEO  281  01  2547  
AGGT  231  18  0282  BIOS  341 01  0530  ENGL  435A  01  2813  LAW  695  01  1300  PHIL  247  01  2593  THEO  287  01  3065  
AGGT  334 04  0288  GAPP  243 01  0608  ENGL  440  01  1256  LAW  695  02  1301  PHIL  253  01  2531  
ACCT  334 05  0289  GAPP  331 01  3315  ENGL  488Z  01  2823  LAW  695  03  1302  PHIL  264  01  2983  
ACCT  371  05  0294  GHEG  459 02  0650  ENGL  491  01  2824  LAW  695  04  1303  PHIL  268  01  1676  
ACCT  371  06  0295  GHEM  119L 02  2431  ENGL  495B  01  2826  LAW  695  05  1304  PHIL  268  02  1677  
AGGT  372 01  0296  GLAS  305 01  2445  FIN  360 04  1058  LAW  695  06  3356  PHYS  210  01  3145  
ACCT  475 03  0301  GLAS  328 01  2699  FIN  360 05  1060  MARK  231  03  1308  PHYS  222L  02  3151  
ACCT  475 04  0302  GOTH  351 01  3184  FIN  360 06  1061  MARK  231  04  1309  PLS  442  02  1829  
AGCT  476 02  2371  GOTH  378 01  2460  FIN  361  02  1063  MARK  231  05  1310  PSY  341T  03  1893  
AGCT  476 06  0219  GOTH  461 01  0739  FIN  376 04  1075  MARK  231  06  1311  PSY  342  01  1839  
AGGT  479 01  0307  GOTH  478 01  3187  FIN  380 03  1078  MARK  231  08  1313  PSY  342T  01  1923  
AERO  444L 01  0316  ECON  302 01  0794  FIN  462 01  1080  MARK  350  02  1316  PSY  389  01  2352  
AERO  444L 02  0317  ECON  303L 02  3189  FIN  473 01  1084  MARK  350  03  3164  PSY  454  01  3004  
AERO  444L 03  0318  ECON  350 01  0797  FIN  478  01  1085  MARK  492  01  2520  PSY  455  01  3005  
AERO  444L 04  0319  ECON  421  01  0799  GOVT  342  01  1165  MATH  325  01  1384  PSY  481  01  3006  
AERO  446L 01  0322  ECON  443  01  0800  GOVT  342T  01  2365  MGT  231  01  1473  ROFR  310  01  2037  
AERO  446L 02  0323  EGON  457  01  3195  GOVT  342T  02  2366  MGT  231  02  1474  ROFR  465  01  3015  
AERO  446L 04  0325  EE  342L  04  3112  GOVT  342T  03  2367  MGT  231  03  1476  ROIT  101  03  2041  
AFAM  260 01  3263  EE  344T  02  0851  GOVT  342T  04  2368  MGT  231  04  1478  ROSP  237  01  3021  
AFAM  368 01  3265  EE  348T  02  2171  GOVT  342T  06  3296  MGT  231  08  1482  ROSP  328  01  2079  
AFAM  371 01  3273  EE  361  02  0858  GOVT  343T  01  2853  Ml  308  01  2501  soc  220  01  2097  
AFAM  374 01  3266  EE  361 L 03  0861  GOVT  343T  04  2856  Ml  432A  01  2956  soc  232  01  2538  
AFAM  452 01  3275  ENGL  300A  01  2771  GOVT  343T  05  2857  Ml  435A  01  2942  soc  260  01  3029  
AFAM  455 01  3269  ENGL  301A  01  1011  GOVT  401  01  2851  MSA  544  01  3176  soc  313  01  3031  
AMST  360 01  3383  ENGL  311  02  2775  GOVT  404  01  2863  MUS  220  01  2959  soc  314  01  3361  
ANTH  375 01  2738  ENGL  315B  01  2698  GOVT  462  01  2665  MUS  220  02  2960  soc  342  01  2540  
ANTH  444 01  2390  ENGL  317C  01  2779  GOVT  472  01  2870  MUS  221  01  2122  soc  374  01  3032  
ANTH  450 01  2736  ENGL  317T  03  2782  GSC  220  01  3221  MUS  223  01  2961  soc  401  01  3033  
ARHI  397 01  2739  ENGL  319A  01  1018  GSC  412B  01  3223  MUS  226  01  1557  STV  247  01  2591  
ARST  133S 01  0434  ENGL  319A  02  1019  GSC  430  01  3218  PHIL  220  01  2976  STV  454  01  2397  
BA  362 01  0504  ENGL  328A  01  2794  GSG  480Z  01  3227  PHIL  221  01  1667  THEO  242  01  3061  
BA  363 01  0505  ENGL  340  01  3317  HIST  392  01  2911  PHIL  222  01  1669  THEO  246  01  0153  
BA  363 02  0506  ENGL  384B 1J1  2796  PHIL  222  02  2977  THEO  247  01  3063  
BA  363 03  0507  ENGL  399A  01  2567  PHIL  225  01  2525  THEO  250  01  0102  
BA  363 04  0508  ENGL  414Z  01  2801  


-~-----­
SPORlSSHORTS Foyt prepares for comeback at Yalvo!lne 200 
•LONG BEACH, Calif. -A.J. Foyt's plan to begin his racing comeback next weekend in the Valvoline 200 at Phoenix lntHrnational Raceway may have run into a snag. 
The 56-year-old Foyt, a four-time Indianapolis 500 winner and the winningest driver in Indy-car history, was badly injured in a race crash last September at Elkhart Lake, Wis. He continues on a therapy program for badly mangled feet and legs and tested last week at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. 
But Foyt, who has been hoping to get back behind the wheel of his Lola-Chevrolet for some real competitive driving on the one­mile oval at Phoenix, said, "We're wanting to drive at Phoenix. but we don't know if we're going to be released by Dr. (Terry) Trammell to drive. 
"I'll be there (in Phoenix), but I don't know whether or not I'll drivo." Trammell is a notod orthopedic surgeon and the director of modical serviens for CART, the Indy-car sanctioning body. 
Foyt was in Long Beach on Sunday as a team owner, with BMnard Jourdain of Mexico driving his car in the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach on the downtown street drcuit. 
Asked If he still plans to drive in the May 26 Indianapolis 500­a record 34th consecutive start in that event-even if he can't raee in Phoonix, Foyt said simply: "Absolutely." 
Ibrahim Hussein wins second Boston Marathon 
•BOSTON -Ibrahim Hussein kept his eye on the finish line and won tho Boston Marathon for the second time. Abebe Mekonnen made the mistake of kooplng his eye on the man who was supposed to win. 
By the time Mekonnen realized that Douglas Wakiihuri wouldn't live up to his billing as the favorite in a strong field, it was too late to catch up. 
llussein Hasily held ofT a latt~ surge and beat Mekonnen by 16 seeonds Monday. 
The Kenyan didn't particularly care that his time of 2 hours, 11 minutes. 6 seconds was slow. What mattered was simply crossing the finish line first one year after sutTering an injury he felt might ond his outstanding career. 
"I won. That was the most important thing," Hussein said. "I wanted to prove to myself that I am still competitive and can still win." 
American soccer player first of his kind In Soviet Union 
•MOSCOW -American Dale Mulholland. the first foreigner to play professional soccer for a Soviet team, said he was surprised to see his teammates trading caviar and vodka for their Western opponents' cleats and warm-up clothes. 
But since joining the high-ranking Soviet team Lokomotiv Mosc~ow moro than a year ago, the former Orlando Lions forward has found everything unusual. 
"Every time we go abroad on tour, the players turn into businessmen," says the 26-year old native of Tacoma, Wash. "Thoy spend all their time trading with teams to accumulate Western goods." 
His favorite story is about one enterprising goalkeeper who bought three photocopiers while touring Singapore. 
Lacrosse faces road test vs. Wooster 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team returns to the road today to face Division III power College of Wooster. The Fighting Scots, ranked 17th in the latest Division III poll, sport a 10-1 record and are in the midst of their best season ever. 
Wooster carried a 4-0 record into last season's matchup with the Irish (4-5), but Notre Dame outscored the Scots 7-3 in the second half en route to a 12-8 win. 
"They always give us a tough game," said third-year Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "They're playing great right now, so we'll have to be ready to play from the outset." 
The Irish have had little time to ponder Saturday's 10-3 loss to Cornell, in which a sharp Irish defensive showing was sidetracked by a lackluster of­fensive performance. 
"A lot of our problems are mental. We start thinking about things too much offensively," said Irish senior defenseman Pete Gillin. "Hopefully against 0-Woo we'll put some of these things behind us and play the type of game that we're capable of playing." 
All-American attackman Steve Davidow, who tallied 51 goals and 33 assists last season, sparks the Scots offensively. Senior Andy Fox dished out 45 assists for the Scots in last year's campaign. 
At Wooster, the Irish begin a season-ending road trip that will send them to Lake Forest, Ill, Columbus, Ohio, and East Lansing, Michigan. 
Although a Division III team, Corrigan expects another un­wavering eiTort from the Scots. 
"We're in no position to go out and wait for them to play their game," said Corrigan. "We have to play aggrossively and keep them from scoring early." 
Irish sophomore midfielder Brian Mayglothling and junior attackman Brian Schirf con­tinue to put impressive num­bers on the board for Notre Dame. Attackman Mike Sullivan was held scoroless for the first time all season in the Cornell game. 
With a defensive performance similar to that of the Cornell game and an improved offen­sive attack, the Irish should re­turn from Wooster with a win that would put them back at the .500 mark heading into their final drive for an NCAA berth. 


Senior tri-captain Mike Sennet and the Irish lacrosse team take on Division Ill College of Wooster today in Ohio. A win will put the Irish back at the .500 mark with a 5-5 record. 

• Men's tennis dominates at MCC's 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team prepared itself for its fmal three matches of the season with a phenomenal showing at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tennis Championship held Sunday in St. Louis, Mo. 
Rain plagued the tournament, which was originally scheduled to take place Saturday and Sunday on outdoor courts. But after a gulley-washer Saturday and no relief in sight, tourney officials decided to complete the event in one day. 
The Irish started the day at 2 
p.m. with sophomore Chuck Coleman beginning the Notre Dame onslaught at number-one singles. Junior AU-American Dave DiLucia, who has been on a tear for most of the season, bypassed the tournament to rest his back. Fourteen hours later at 4 a.m., the Irish packed their bags and returned with six of the eight spots on the AII­MCCTeam. 
"We're probably a step better than most of those teams down there," said Notre Dame Coach Bob Bayliss. 
Following Coleman's 7-5, 6-1 win, junior Will Forsyth, in his first MCC Championship Tournament, cruised to a 6-0, 6-1 victory. 
Sophomore Mark Schmidt rolled to a 6-2, 6-2 win at num­ber-three singles, while Ron Rosas had little problem in his 6-2, 6-1 win at four-singles. 
Chris Wojtalik snagged an­other win for the Irish with a 6­3, 6-1 win for the number-five singles championship. Tommy North completed the singles sweep for Notre Dame, taking a 6-3, 6-3 win. 
With the downpours forcing action inside, courts were few and far between. Because of the unending rain, tournament officials moved the match sights to a variety of courts throughout St. Louis. 
"We played on four different court surfaces and we adjusted pretty well," said Bayliss. "We deserve credit for grinding it out." 
And a grind it was. Some players played in six different matches within the fourteen hour period, including semi-fi­nal rounds. 
"The whole tournament turned out to be a logistical nightmare," said Bayliss. "We were trying to take advantage of any indoor courts available." 
Because of the time con­straint, the doubles matches were played in a six or eight game pro-set format. 
At number-one doubles, Forsyth/Coleman rolled 8-4, followed by a 6-4 win by Schmidt/Wojtalik. The only loss for the Irish in the fmals came at third-doubles, where the freshman duo of Todd Wilson and Tad Eckert took third place. 
Joining Coleman on the All MCC squad are Forsyth, Schmidt, Rosas, Wojtalik, and North. 
With the two doubles titles, the Irish move into second on the all-time MCC list with nine. 
While the Irish faced a mini­mal amount of competition at the MCC Championships, their final three matches will be detrimental to their shot at an NCAA bid. 
"These next three matches are critical for us," said Bayliss. "We feel we need to win all three to get into the NCAAs." 

The Observer/Kenneth Osgood Junior transfer Will Forsyth was one ofsix players from the men's tennis team named to the AII-MCCteamSunday in St. Louis. 
Text 
continued from page 20 
days as we did twice this past season during the second semester is very difficult for the student athlete. Yet, to play the television schedule and power games with the conference teams, you have to play on the dates available outside of the conference schedule. With the new NCAA rule, regarding the student-athlete's time, of 20 hours per week with a day off in a seven-day period, it might be even more difficult to schedule 27 games as an independent. 
Our home is South Bend. I love the community, the people, the lifestyle. About 10 years ago, I made a decision with my family to stay here and turned down a chance to coach the New York Knicks in the NBA. Terry had just earned her doc­torate in 1980 and was offered a teaching position in the law school. Our children were fi­nally settled with their friends and school activities. The four of them gave me a chance to get here. During the 1970-71 season, from an assistant coaching position at the University of Pennsylvania to the head coaching position at Fordham and finally the head coaching position at Notre Dame, we moved five times. Since that time, our family's roots have been at 122 Peashway. It's our base. It's our foundation, no matter what life's challenges bring any of us. 
It's time to move into the next decade for me. 


Subscribe now to The Observer for only $25 a semester or $40 a year. What Adeal!! Don't let this opportunity pass you by. 

Season School Record 
1970-71 Fordham 1971-72 Notre Dame 1972-73 Notre Dame 1973-74 Notre Dame 1974-75 Notre Dame 1975-76 Notre Dame 1976-77 Notre Dame 1977-78 Notre Dame 1978-79 Notre Dame 1979-80 Notre Dame 1980-81 Notre Dame 1981-82 Notre Dame 1982-83 Notre Dame 1983-84 Notre Dame 1984-85 Notre Dame 1985-86 Notre Dame 1986-87 Notre Dame 1987-88 Notre Dame 1988-89 Notre Dame 1989-90 Notre Dame 1990-91 Notre Dame TOTALS 
26-3 
6-20 

18-12 
26-3 

19-10 
23-6 
22-7 
23-8 
24-6 
22-6 
23-6 

10-17 
19-10 21-12 21-9 23-6 24-8 20-9 21-9 16-13 12-20 419-200 
Pet. Postseason 
.897 .231 .600 .897 .655 .793 .759 .742 .800 .786 .793 .370 .655 .636 .700 .793 .750 .690 .724 .552 .375 
.677 

Your last chance 
for extra credit 
beforegraduation 

All you have to do is take a field trip to our dealership and show us your student I.D., driver's license and proof ofa job~ graduation. Chances are, you'll be eligible for up to 60 monthS financing on any new Nissan~ with no money down and no payments for 90 days. . 
Now, this extra credit carit improve yourgrades. But It can certainlyget you out of school in a hurry 
No monevdown. Nopayments for 90 days.
.....

.  
-'H~aiJJ  •  
(  ~;::..-- GeE>  
~  

2500W. Lexington Ave. 
15 minutes from campus "On the Bypass at 3 points#Call Tom Naquin, N.D. Oass of 76 

ELKART
toll free 674-6059 


9~JJ~u&5 
Wednesday, April 17th 7:30p.m. 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall Especially important for Seniors-to-be 
Any Questions Call Aaron X3264 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
ACROSS 33 Light 53 Trifle
9 a.m.-11:30 a.m. One Hundred Years of Catholic Social 
heavyweight 56 Sondheim song 
Thought 1891-1991, Session Eight: 'Toward a Theology of the 1 Incarnation of a 
champ: 1952·60 61 Feelersdeity
Corporation: A Second Chance for Catholic Social Teaching," 
34 Fannie--62 "The-Kid,"
Dennis McCann, DePaul University, Center for Continuing 7 Chilean desert 
35 Norman river 1984 film Education. Sponsored by Center for Ethics and Religious 14Summary 
36 Anent &3 L.A. team Values in Business. 15 Certain singers 37 Funny favorites 64 Pool people 9 a.m.-3:15 p.m. One Hundred Years of Catholic Social 11 Herb Gardner in a circus Thought 1891-1991, Session Five: "Social Equality and play 39 Bob from Kan. 
DOWN

Politieal Liberty in Contemporary American Society," Amitai 19Lad 40 "--we forget" Etzioni, George Washington University, Center for Continuing 41 Motherless
20 Scot's uncle 1 Syrian, e.g. 
woman

Education. Sponsored by Center for Ethics and Religious 2 Kill a bill 
21 Proofreaders' 42 U.S. tennis 
Values in Business. marks a Wan
champ: 1977

4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Simultaneous Design 4 Thine, in Torino 
22 Palm Springs 43 Summer: Fr.
Problems in Linear System Theory," Bijoy Ghosh, Washington mayor 5--Darya,
44 Circus role of 26

University, Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by 24 Dumas---Asian river
Across Centnr for Applind Mathematics. 6 Take umbrage 
26 Famed circus 47 Jung or Lewis at
7 p.m. Film: "My Beautiful Laundrette," Annenberg Au­
performer 48"Dies--" 
7 Rosacea 
ditorium, Snite Musnum. 30"­49 Foreigner 8 Minute amount 
9 p.m. Film: "Ariel," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Rosenkavalier" 52 Belgian resort 
9 Jeanne d'-­10 In an unfeeling
LECTURES 
way ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Eaglewood
Tuesday 
4:30 p.m. Lecture: "Inscribing the Male; Images and Issues of Male Sexuality on the Road to Cubism," Len Klekner, visiting assistant professor, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by department of art history. 6:30 p.m. Leeture: "Where Are You In Your Job Search?" Jeff Hice, Career and Placement Services, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 7 p.m. Films and Discussion: "Global Dissent," "War on the Home-front" and "Paper Tiger Television," Center for Social Concerns. Part of Analyzing the War: Tuesday Night Video Series. Sponsored by Gulf Crisis Action Group. 7 p.m. Lecture: "Coping with an Alienated Society: Dealing with Cultural Differences," Dr. Michael Reamer, MD. Knights of Columbus Building. Sponsored by Knights of Columbus of Notre  A P E ~~M A S S A 0 T T 0 LIAR OSKAR SHOD ITSA MIAMI ARNO THEGREAT~~~~-EAR A N N E E A S E L S E R RAN ~~I S L E LEAN.UPON.IMAGE B A R N UM AIN D B AI L E Y AD E E R .TARE••AA G AS R E E S E S VA AIL TII!JIAVO N~ A R I. s HOWON EARTH N I N E E L ATE C A R A N A G S N A R E S I T E R A S S T A V E R S D E E p  12Whimper 13 "Comus" composer 16 Draft inits. 18 In a frenzy 22 Chapeau for Co rot 23 Capri follower 24 Excoriate 25 Miquelon, etc. 26 Boxer Griffith 27 Painter of waterlilies 28 "Tru" star 29lslamic V.I.P. aoWaggish  31 Zhou­32 Della of songdom 35 Ballet role 37 Deride 38 Face shape 42 --Dolorosa 44 Diminishing 45 Cry of pain 46 Distresses severely 47 Relinquished  49 Botanist Gray 53 Trumpeter, e.g. 50 Advance 54 Aware of 51 "... swords -­55 Customs plowshares" 57 Compass dir. 52"-a 58 Gob Woman," 1964 59 Mariner's abbr. song &o Jacutinga, e.g. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·5656 (75¢ each minute).  
Dame.  
8 p.m.  Lecture:  "Women  in  the  Church,"  Alice  Von  
Hildebrand, Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union  
Board.  

MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chlr.ken Romano Beef Stew with Biscuit Chili Cheese Macaroni Broiled Chicken 
THE FAA SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER
CAlVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
~----------------------------~~ ~--------------------------------~ 


"C'mon, c'mon! You two quit circling the table and just sit down!" 
5Zl.nrros ta{is going to 6e a 6rast tliis year and you ana your friuuf.s can 6e an integra£ part of it! 'Eitfur 6y coming out and winning coo[ prizes or 6y puiCing your dorm to 'rrfie Qjust J'or rrfie Crown· Cfiampionsliip. 'Tfiis wif£ win a o/CR,.Jor your dorm's private use! 'But if you couldn't get on your dorm's teams sign-up any way! 
The B. ike ~ace

The ,.S' lam 'Dunk Contest The Golf Tournament 1mprov/1 mpersonation Contest The Morning ~ un The ~oad ~ally 
• 

•AnTostal Dorm Representatives• We will meet in the SUB office @ 7 pm WEDNESDAY~ April 17th 
..,11:111 Nl IINIIIN UUMCII 

It is imperative tliat you sliow up!!! Your dorm is re{ying on you! 
l'usl 'I D 

Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, April 16, 1991 
Phelps ends 20-year tenure with ND hoops 
Speculation ends as Digger retires; wants next decade to be more than basketball 
By RICH KURZ dertaker, was a natural to re­"I don't know how many Associate Sports Editor place him. more years Notre Dame can 
"In 1965 I wrote to Ara survive as an independent," 
The Digger era is over. Parseghian explaining my love Phelps said. 
After 20 years, 393 wins and for Notre Dame and my desire Despite speculation about his a perfect 56-56 record in grad­to coach there someday," Phelps future, which placed him in po­uating players who completed reminisced. "Little did I know sitions with the Bush all four years of eligibility, Notre that my dream would become Administration, the Irish ath­Dame head basketball coach reality six years later." letic department and various Richard "Digger" Phelps, 49, Since that time, Phelps has television networks, Phelps said retired yesterday, citing a desire led the Irish to the NCAA tour­he had no plans. to live a life outside of nament 14 times, and Phelps­"I don't have any offers right basketball. led teams have knocked off now, and the door's wide open 
"My decision is for the next seven number-one teams, the to what I'll be doing in the fu­decade of my life, there are first of which ended UCLA's 88-ture." other things I want to do," said game win streak. Rumors abound about his Phelps. Many people speculated that successor as basketball coach. 
The hour-long press confer­the team's lackluster 12-20 Among those names mentioned ence ended several weeks of record this season may have in rumors include Seton Hall's speculation about Phelps' future accelerated Phelps' retirement. P.J. Carlisimo, Georgia Tech's as the Irish basketball coach. Phelps addressed this year's Bobby Cremins, and perhaps Phelps read a prepared team in his statement. wishfully, Duke's Mike statement for the first part of "The past season came down Krzyzewski. Incidentally, how­the conference, and then an­to three things-one, saving ever, the South Bend Tribune swered questions for the re­Monty Williams' life by not reported that Krzyzewski will mainder of the session. playing basketball with his be in town this week to speak 
"I want to live the other life heart disease; two, Tim to the South Bend after basketball," Phelps said. Singleton being out for six Transportation Club. 
Both athletic director Dick Beauchamp.
weeks with a bulging disc, and Phelps indicated that he
"It's what I teach my players Rosenthal and Reverend Said Rosenthal, "We wish 
and what I really believe." three, LaPhonso Ellis, who was would not be involved in William Beauchamp, the Digger all the best in his new ineligible second semester, searching for his replacement.
Back in the 1970-71 season, a executive vice president of endeavors, whatever they
29-year old coach at Fordham staying in accounting as a ma­"I have nothing to do with Notre Dame, were out of town, might be... The renewal I've 
jor... Yet the rest of the team that, I'm not suggesting any­
University gained the attention but issued statements. found in my new assignment
of Notre Dame and the college­gave everything with the sched­thing, and I'm staying out of it," "Notre Dame greatly appre­(as AD) has been a special joy basketball community when he ule we had to play." Phelps said. 
ciates the contributions of for me and my family, and I 
led Fordham to a 26-3 record, He also articulated his views Junior forward Daimon Sweet Digger Phelps during his two wish the same to him." 
including a victory over the on next year's team, along with was the only player available decades as our head basketball The relationship between Irish. his opinions on the independent for comment. 
coach... We look forward to Phelps and Rosenthal was ru-And when Johnny Dee left status of Notre Dame basket­"I think he made a decision his continued close association 
Notre Dame after that season, ball, which he felt was detri­he thought was right," said with Notre Dame. Certainly, his see PHElPS I page 16 that coach, the son of an un-mental. Sweet. "He'll be successful in place in Notre Dame basketball 

Phelps' statement given 
Editor's Note: The following six since March 19. is the prepared text read If you really believe in the Monday afternoon by Digger \essence of the true NQtre Phelps announcing his Dame. one can't possibly be resignation as basketball consumed by one's job. I never coach at the University of did have tunnelvision with bas­Notre Dame. ketball or allow basketball to 
consume IDe. Personally 1 
After 20 years as head bas· though that :tp.ade roe a; better ketball coach at the University game coach. 1 always felt that of Notre Dame, I am retiring. with three good game tapes of 
In 1965 I wrote Ara our opposition and three days Parseghian explaining my love of practice, the power game for Notre Dame and my desire rwould come down t~ Joul to coach there some day. Uttle shooting a}ld defensive te· did 1 know that my dream bounding in the last minute. would become reality six years We always sell this to the later. For the last two decades players in every big game. it has never been a job. Every day, even with the ups and The past. .season came down downs, has been like to three things-one, saving Christmas morning opening Monty Williams' life by not the presents you always playing basketball with Ms wanted. heart disease; two;. Tiro 
I've put my lit'~ into time Singleton being out (J>r six blocks. Being a funeral direc-weeks with a bulging disc~ and tor's son. I've learned to do three, LaPhonso Ellis, who was that. There is only so much ineligible second semester, time in the game of life. staying in accounting as.a rna~ Between the ages of50 and 60, jor. He will play in Et~rope and one better attempt the other the NBA lik.e Bill Laimbee:r did. challenges because things But how many Division I foot­change between 60 and 70. I ball and men's basketball play· want to live the other life after ers are accounting majors? Yet basketball at Notre Dame. It's the rest of the team gave what .l teach roy players and ·everything With the s¢hedule what I really believe. This we had to play. · place as a university has taught me many lessons The seniors should be very outside of· bas· good next year. They will win ketba.U-intellectuaJ.ly. spiritu~ .games thatthey lost this year. ally, cult1,1rally and socially. The sophomores will be better 
What will I do? Time will tell. and the five freshmen as a Yes, I'm concerned about edu· class are ranked in the top 15 cation in this nation, the home-nationally. less Oow income housing), the Personally, I don't know how mentally disabled arid the eco-many more years Notre Dame noroically deprived, can survive as an independent. 
Doing television is fun. I may Playing four games in eight write a novel about college sports. I started painting oils a 
see TEXT I page 18
year ago-actually I've painted 
I walk into the funeral not knowing quite where to sit. 
The vultures, the press, sit near the front, hoping to record that tear when it streams down the face of Digger Phelps. The mourners sit in the back, probably telling remember when stories and hoping this is some kind of cruel -------­joke. 
All are here to pay their last respects. I take a seat in the middle. 
It's the retirement announcement for Phelps, who just completed his 20th season as Notre Dame's head basketball coach. This isn't like Roger Smith stepping down at GM. No one is waiting in the wings with a cake. 
It's almost like a White House press conference when someone introduces Phelps and he appears from behind a magic curtain. (There's that darn reference to that Bush administration thing again.) 
He speaks slowly but confidently, reading from a prepared text. He answers every question. The rumors are history now. 
Twenty years is a long time, too long for some. Maybe the time was right for a change. Maybe the program needs some new blood pumped through it. 
Phelps said he always wanted to coach 20 years at Notre Dame and call it a career. He has said in the past it would be "very hard" to coach another college team. Notre Dame is the place where you want to end a career. 
He didn't get the farewell tour complete with rocking chairs and framed photos in his last season. Sometimes, when you're 12-20, they slam the door instead of throwing the party. 
Digger stressed that the decision was his and his alone. He denied any bad blood between himself and athletic director Richard Rosenthal, who issued a whopping four-line statement concerning the announcement. Rosenthal is probably not planning to hold the retirement party at his house. 
Now the speculation begins as to whom will 


Digger closes 20 years of Irish history; next in line has a class act to follow 
replace Phelps. Some of the names mentioned most often include Xavier coach Pete Gillen Southern Methodist coach John Shumate, and ~ handful of others ranging from stupid in Duke's Mike Krzyzewski to intriguing in Georgia Tech's Bobby Cremins. Take Gillen and give the points. 
It's safe to say that whomever the candidate is, he will never match the flamboyancy and class of Phelps. He will never match the green carnation. Or the fluorescent green jerseys for that matter. 
He always said give him three tapes and three days and he could beat anybody. Just ask top­ranked UCLA. Or San Francisco. Or Marquette. Or DePaul. Or Kentucky. Or Virginia. Or North Carolina. 
I can vaguely remember watching that game against UCLA when I was six, although when you see something that many times you just assume you were there. 
But that probably won't be my biggest memory of Phelps. This one is of a game I didn't even see in person. It was last year in Syracuse when Elmer Bennett hit that shot and Digger did that jig across the floor of the Carrier Dome. 
Was it really just last year? It seemed so distant as he stood there and read his memoirs. 
The questions end. He says he will go back 
to his office with his staff. Maybe someone will have a cake there. 
I wish him good luck. It seemed like the thing to do. 
I look briefly into the basketball arena. hoops here until October 15. No more Digger forever. 
Notre Dame doesn't retire uniforms, but maybe it should get a dark blue Armani suit, pin a green carnation on it and hang it from the rafters. They could do it on Digger Phelps Day when the season opens next fall. Twenty years deserves something. 
Phelps said Father Theodore Hesburgh had the most influence on him in the Notre Dame community. He said when it's said, done and historians have recorded it, people will realize how much Hesburgh really did for Notre Dame and the world. 
The same will probably be said when thos historians get together and rehash the Phel career. 
• 




