
ltU·It92 Sf SQUICENTINNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 3 


~~.»&~ 
Se~~er .g.3.
;... W ~ saint Ma~s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gorbachev threatens to quit 

Preparing Old College The Observer/John T. Rock 
Workers paint Old College getting ready for the sesquicentennial celebration. Old College is the first and oldest building on campus, built in the spring of 1843. 
~----------------------------~ 
O'Hara implements changes in Office of Student Affairs 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Several changes in the Office 
of Student Affairs were made 
this summer as part of a re­
structuring plan by Professor 
Patricia 0' Hara, vice president 
for Student Affairs. 
Three changes were made at the Senior Staff level, including the addition of a fourth assis­tant vice president for Student Affairs. A new director of the Ofnce of Minority Student Af­fairs was also hired following 
tho resignation of Ken Durgans this summer. 
Heplucing John Goldrick as Assistant Vice President for Hesidence Life is William Kirk, former rector of Stanford and Holy Cross Halls. Ills responsi­bilities include the supervision 
of the offices of Residence Life, 
Security, and Student Resi­
dences. 
Kirk brings to his position 

knowledge of the residence hall 
system and experience in both 
legal and financial affairs, ac­
cording to O'Hara. 
He received an 

undergraduate degree in 
accounting from Notre Dame in 
1984. He worked for the 
accounting firm of Price 
Waterhouse for the next four 
years, serving as a staff 
accountant and as a consultant in the Management Consulting Services division. 
Kirk returned to Notre Dame in 1988 to begin his law studies, which he completed this spring. During his three years in law school he served as an assistant rector in Sorin Hall, and rector of Holy Cross and Stanford 

Maid services restructured 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Students returning to the Notre Dame campus Sunday found that the cleaning supplies that were in their rooms last year were no longer there. 
This is one of several changes in the housekeeping services that are being implemented this year by Colonel David Woods, director of Support Services. 
The cleaning supplies found In dorm rooms last year will now be provided only to stu­dents who request them through their rectors. This was Implemented because, accord­ing to Woods, 80 percent of the supplies given to the students last year were never used, re­sulting in an ulncredible expen­diture." 
Also last year, shower clean­Ing crews traveled between residence halls, and showers were cleaned on a weekly basis. This practice has been discontinued. 
Each member of the rotating crews will be assigned to a building on a permanent basis, and the showers will now be cleaned by the permanent resi­dence hall crew. 
~In the men's residence halls, we're back to the way we were before (the rotating crews were set up last year)," Woods said. 
In addition, the private bath­rooms found in some residence halls, such as Walsh Hall, were cleaned by housekeepers once a week, last year. These bath­rooms will now be cleaned three times a week. According to Woods, this is due to numer­ous complaints last year of clogged drains in these bath­rooms. 
uThe students with private bathrooms have a right to a clean room, but they also have a responsibility to help main­tain it," he said. 
The rotating crew which is­sued linens has also been dis­continued. This year, the sheets will be issued by the permanent 
see MAIDS I page 6 

MOSCOW (AP) -President Mikhail Gorbachev, warning of impending "catastrophe," threatened Tuesday to quit un­less the Soviet Union's splinter­ing republics can at least pre­serve a military and economic union. 
As he spoke, a seventh repub­lie spun off from the center. 
The Soviet president, who only a week ago was a prisoner of the hard-line coup plotters who briefly toppled him, made a forceful and impassioned plea to the national legislature to maintain the country's cohesion or risk disaster. 
Shouting at times to be heard over the clamor, Gorbachev said the Soviet Union stood uon the point of collapsing" and warned: "If it does, it would be a catastrophe." 
But the Soviet president indi­cated he is willing to settle for a two-tier union: an economic and preferably a military al-Hance of all 15 republics, and a political union of only some of them. 
Amid growing pressure to set the Baltics free, he said it was 
• 
U.S. Response I page 4 

• 
Professor's views /page 4 


the republics' constitutional right to secede, but appealed to them to do it in an orderly fashion. 
"We have to be responsible, not be totally emotional about this, letting passion prevail over reason," Gorbachev said. 
In the ninth day of an ex­traordinary upheaval that has seen Gorbachev's ouster and reinstatement, the ascendancy of Russian president Boris Yeltsin and the disintegration of the once-mighty Communist Party, there were these devel­opments: 
• Moldavia, which borders Ro­mania, declared independence, the fifth republic to do so since the coup and the seventh over­all. "It's a happy day," said President Mircea Snegur. In the Moldavian capital, Kishinev, crowds waved the republic's red-yellow-and-blue flags after its Parliament adopted the in­dependence declaration. 
• The European Community formally recognized the Inde­pendence of the three Baltic states, joining a growing list of foreign governments granting diplomatic recognition to the republics or saying they would do so soon. 
• In a strong new sign of the Kremlin's loosening grip on the Baltics, the new Soviet defense minister, Yevgeny Shaposh­nikov, said Lithuanian youths drafted into the Soviet army can go home. Shaposhnlkov also told Lithuanian lawmakers the infamous "black beret" troops, blamed for bloody at­tacks, would be withdrawn from the Baltics. 
• Robert Strauss, the new 
U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union, strongly hinted that President Bush may extend diplomatic recognition on Fri­day to the Baltlcs. He said Bush "probably will have something significant to say" about the matter that day. 
• The official Tass news agency said the seven surviving 
see SOVIETS/ page 4 
Halls. 

For a law student to reach 
such positions is considered 
uhighly unusual," according to 
O'Hara, who said she believes 
the experience will be highly 
beneficial to his new position. 
She cited new federal legisla­
tion on alcohol and drug poli­
cies as just one area where 
Kirk's legal background will be 
helpful. 

Joining the office as a new Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs is Kevin War­ren. His newly-created position places him in supervision of the Ofnce of Minority Student Af­fairs and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. In addi­tion, he will be responsible for the concerns of off-campus students. 
The position was created as a means to reorganize the Office 
of Student Affairs while allevi­
ating some of the burdens on 
the other three assistant vice 
presidents, O'Hara satd. War­
ren's arrival adds "a whole new 
dimension" to the office, she 
said. 
O'Hara said that placing the Office of Minority Student Af­fairs under Warren will allow Sister Jean Lenz to focus formal responsibility on graduate students, a segment of the stu­dent body that she has infor­mally supervised for some time. 
Warren comes to Notre Dame with an undergraduate degree from Grand Canyon University in 1986, where he was an aca­demic and athletic All­American in basketball, and an 
M.B.A. from Arizona State in 1987. 
He then entered Notre Dame law school, where he excelled 
in the area of trial advocacy, 
according to O'Hara. 

Upon completion of his law degree in 1990, Warren worked for a law firm in Kansas City, specializing in the representa­tion of universities involved in NCAA violations. 
In addition to his responsibil­ities, he will serve as a concur­rent assistant professor of law. 
An additional change in the senior staff brings Ann Firth back to the office on a part­time basis as an Assistant to the Vice President in January when she returns from her ma­ternity leave, O'Hara said. 
Firth, formerly the Director of Hesidence Life, will work on special projects in her new po­sition. 
see POSITIONS I page 6 

Cheer, cheer The Observer/John T. Rock 
The band sparks Irish football spirit on the first day of classes as they play the fight song during yesterday afternoon's practice. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Stiff penalities 
for breaking 

alcohol policy 
As the hot summer heat------­

bears down on the men 
and women of Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's, one's 
thoughts turn to one thing: 
beer. 
Once again, students 
have returned to campus 

to find out the alcohol John O'Brien 
policy has been changed. 

And, in their attempt to Accent Edttor 
minimize the importance 

of alcohol to students' social lives, the people 
responsible for revising du Lac have once 
again brought the subject of alcohol to the 
forefront of everybody's consciousness. 
Now, only "those of legal age may only possess or transport in any public area of campus an amount of alcohol which is con­sistent with the concept of responsible indi­vidual consumption." 
This new clause raises several concerns, the first being, how much is enough for re­sponsible consumption? 
Say there's some 350 lb. guy who lives in 
Dillon who can drink a case without even 
burping. If he's carrying a case of beer across 
campus, is he obeying the rule for responsible 
consumption? 

By the same token, say some 85 lb. fresh­
man is carrying a six-pack across campus. 
Providing he has never drank before, isn't 
that too much for responsible consumption? 
Fortunately, in an Observer EXCLUSIVE!!, we have received a copy of the Student Affairs directive to rectors and R.A.'s regarding safe amounts for responsible drinking and suitable punishments for violators of this rule. 
That directive has set the following guide­
lines: 

• 
Five beers (or one bottle of liquor) over the limit is punishable by a $20 fme. 

• 
Ten beers (or two bottles) over the limit is punishable by a "swift kick in the privates." 

• 
Fifteen beers over is punishable by a sentence of 25 hours spent hanging out in Theodore's, the nightclub on the campus. 

• 
Twenty beers over and you have to serve 25 hours WORKING in Theodore's, the nightclub on the campus. 

• 
Anyone caught with a party ball will be doused in gasoline and ignited. Anyone caught with a keg will be thrown into a wrestling ring with the L.A. Police all-stars. 


Also, anyone carrying alcohol across campus must use "suitable packaging." Somehow that sounds like a motto for a brand of condoms: "If you're gonna do it, use Suitable Packaging." 
Anyway, what is suitable packaging? If you have a big bottle of tequila stuffed in your pants pocket, what are they going to do, frisk you? Actually, that might be a good way to meet female security guards. 
Women, on the other hand, can carry stuff in their bras. If those guys lay one hand on your chest, kick THEM in the privates and bring up a sexual harassment suit-du Lac also provides for that now. 
Anyway you look at it, the new alcohol policy is just going to do one thing: make the securing and drinking of alcohol more of a forbidden fruit. 
There's only one way to escape it: Move off­campus. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Today's Staff 
News Viewpoint Alicia Reale Rich Riley Dave Kinney 
Illustrations Production Jake Frost Lisa Bourdon Rich Riley Sports 
Dave McMahon 
Graphics Brendan Regan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 

fORECAST: 
Mostly sunny and hot today. Highs in the higher 80s. Partly sunny Thursday with highs around 90. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  92  70  
Atlanta  85  71  
Berlin  70  54  
Boston  67  68  
Chicago  92  68  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  93  70  
Denver  93  63  
Detro~  88  68  
Honolulu  89  79  
Houston  99  73  
Indianapolis  91  68  
London  81  63  
Los Angeles  82  65  
Madrid  97  68  
Mlam Beach  89  80  
Moscow  63  54  
New York  87  67  
Paris  82  57  
Philadelphia  88  67  
Rome  95  70  
St. Louis  93  73  
San F ranctsco  68  55  
Seattle  64  54  
South Bend  8f  u  
Tokyo  81  70  
Washington, D.C  86  71  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Will Lenin's tomb fall? 
• MOSCOW-Less than a week after a failed coup, monuments to Communist leaders have been toppled all over the country. But reformers still are wary of removing Lenin from his temperature-controlled granite mausoleum. Although a debate has been raging for more than a year about whether to remove Lenin's body from the mausoleum, talk now is a also focusing on a large statue of the Soviet founder in Moscow's October Square. However many Soviets are just reluctant to give Lenin up. Commonly referred to as the "vozhd," or great leader, many absolve him of aff responsibility for a Communist paradise gone wrong after he died in 1924. 
NATIONAL 
Bob Was Second Most Expensive Storm 
• BOSTON-Hurricane Bob ranks as the second most expensive hurricane in U.S. history, but it was the path of the storm rather than its severity that made it so costly, insurance experts say. The hurricane caused about $780 million damage during its sweep through the densely populated Northeast, an insurance group said. The estimate was released Monday, one week after the hurricane hit New England, damaging buildings, boats and farmland, and knocking out power to more than 2 million utility customers. The damage ranks Bob a distant second behind Hurricane Hugo, which caused $4.2 billion worth of insured losses in the Caribbean and southeastern U.S. in September 1989. 
Dalmatian saves boy and kitten 
•NEWPORT, S.C. -A teen-ager says he and his kitten were saved from a fire by a universal symbol for firefighters -a Dalmatian.Dirk Tanis said he fell asleep Saturday after starting to cook and awoke to the family dog, Spuds, biting his hand. Flames were touching the kitchen ceiling, the microwave was melting and smoke 
OF INTEREST 
• New graduate students should remember to stop by "The Cookout and Activities Night" at Holy Cross Field from 4-7 p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/August 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 180.48 Million 215.26 •.35 COMPOSITE 393.06 .. 0.79 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,026.16 .. 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD{} $.80 to $354.40/oz. 
SILVER{; .2¢ to $3.91/oz. 

filled the house. Tanis ran from the house and called 911. Meanwhile, he said, Spuds grabbed Gizmo, a 5-month­old kitten, by the scruff of the neck and took her out of the house. 
Qua~le ~lans to visit Indiana a IN lA APoLis -Vice President 
Dan Quayle will attend a political fund­raiser in northwest Indiana next week and receive an alumni award from Indiana University School of Law in Indianapolis. Quayle's Sept. 6 visit will start in northern Indiana, where he will attend a fund-raising lunch for Republican Sen. Dan Coats, who faces re-election next year for the seat 

Quayle once held. Quayle is to meet with law students at IU School of Law and receive the distinguished alumni service award at the school's annual alumni dinner. Indiana's former junior senator graduated from the Jaw school in 197 4, as did his wife, Marilyn. 
Plea agreement reached in shooting 
• 
INDIANAPOLIS-A plea agreement was reached this week with three young men charged with murder in the drive-by shooting of a 12-year-old girl who was an innocent victim of gang violence. Under the agreement, murder charges were dropped against the three whopleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit murder and three counts of attempted murder. They also agreed to testify against a fourth man, Paul Harris, 17, who was arrested Thursday. Latonya Stone was shot and killed on April 27, 1990, while she stood with friends in a crowded yard on the east side of Indianapolis. Police said members of the 34th Street Gang were seeking revenge against members of the 30th Street Gang, some of whom were standing in the area, for an earlier beating. 

• 
Seven year-old Craig Shergold's request for get­well cards that appeared in yesterday's Observer has been fulfilled. Students, faculty and staff are therefore asked not to send any letters or cards to the address printed with the request. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1910: Russia declared Montenegro an independent kingdom under Nicholas II. 

• 
In 1941: FDR created a seven-member Supply Priorities and Allocations Board to speed arms to Allies. 

• 
In 1970: Palistinian National Council rejected U.S. Peace Plan for Mideast. 

• 
In 1982: In Spain, Greenpeace boats blocked the dumping of atomic waste. 

• 
Five years ago: Jerry Whitworth was sentenced to 365 years in jail for his part in a Soviet spy network. 


---~-~----·--------------~ ~ 
VVednesday,August28, 1991 The Observer page 3 


ABA rates Thomas 'qualified' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The American Bar Association on Tuesday gave Clarence Thomas its mid-level rating of "qualified" to be a member of the Supreme Court. 
Two of the 15 members of the ABA panel that evaluates judi­cial nominees voted Thomas "not qualified" to sit on the high court. An ABA source who requested anonymity said one panel member did not take part in the vote. The names of the two dissenters were not made public. 
The ABA, the nation's largest lawyers organization, has three rankings for high court nomi­nees -well qualified, qualified and not qualified. 
The mid-level rating for Thomas is the same ABA evalu­ation he received when he was appointed a federal appeals court judge in 1989. 
Ron Olson of Los Angeles, the head of the ABA evaluation committee, was not Immedi­ately available for comment. 
White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said in a state­ment from Kennebunkport, Maine, that President Bush wel­comed the finding that his nominee was qualified. 
wwc arc very pleased that the ABA's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary has found Judge Thomas qualified to be an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court," Fitzwater said. 
"As the president stated here two months ago, Judge Thomas has excelled in everything he has attempted and the presi­dent is confident that Judge Thomas will serve on the court with distinction." 
Thomas, 43, a conservative black judge and former chair­man of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, has been attacked by civil rights groups, including the NAACP, and women's rights groups. 
The civil rights groups oppose him for his criticism of af­firmative action and have said he was too lax in enforcing anti-discrimination laws as head of the EEOC. Women's rights groups said they expect him to vote to overturn the court's 1973 ruling which legalized abortion nationwide. 
Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on the Thomas nomi­nation are scheduled to begin Sept. 10 and are expected to be highly contentious. 
Last year, the ABA rated David Souter well-qualified when Bush picked the then lit-tie-known judge from New Hampshire to become a Supreme Court justice. Souter was confirmed by the Senate as 
Bush's first high  court ap­ 
pointee.  
The  ABA's  role  has  been  

highly controversial in the past, 
•particularly when former Pres­
·Jdent Ronald Reagan named Robert Bork in 1987 to become a member of the high court. 
Four members of the ABA evaluation committee found Bork unqualified to be a high court member. 
That triggered angry attacks by Republican senators who said the committee members were politically motivated. Ten members of the ABA committee said Bork was "well-qualified," and one was "not opposed" to his nomination. 
Bork's nomination was de­feated by the Senate as a lib­eral-led attack accused him of being a rigid ideologue and radical conservative. 
The last Supreme Court nom­inee to be given a simple "qualified" rating was Sandra Day O'Connor in 1981. Until Thomas, all other nominees since then were deemed "well qualified," with the exception of Douglas Ginsburg, whose 1987 nomination was withdrawn before the association could act. 
In addition to Bork, other re­cipients of the "well qualified" rating were Justices Antonin Scalia in 1986 and Anthony Kennedy in 1987 and David Souter in 1990, and Chief Jus­tlce William Rehnquist in 1986. 
Groups critical of Thomas seized upon the ABA's weak en­dorsement as evidence they said buttressed their argument that he was a poor choice to succeed retiring Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall. 
"Thomas' rating is the worst of any nominee in the past decade, and that fact will not be lost on the Senate," said Arthur Kropp, president of People for the American Way Action Fund, a liberal-oriented group. 

The Observer/John T. Rock 

Notre Dame student clowns around 
Lester the Clown presents Steve Fuller with a balloon animal during his Tuesday afternoon visit to Fieldhouse~ 
Economists· predict a slow recovery from recession 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Talk among economists about the prospect of a "double-dip" re­cession has pretty much died, but most predict the current economic recovery will be mod­est at best. 
Both the Bush administration and private forecasters agree the first recession in eight years is over and they see little chance of a quick relapse, as has happened in five of the last eight economic downturns. 
However, they disagree over the strength of the rebound. The administration is counting on above-average annual growth of better than 3 percent to help it reduce the budget deficit and improve the prospects of President Bush's re-election. 
Private analysts, meanwhile, foresee weak growth that at first will not feel much different than the recession. 
"I don't believe we're going to have a so-called double-dip re­cession," said economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch. "On the other hand, I do think this recovery Is going to be the weakest one we've seen in more than 50 years. It's going to be pretty lame." 
More Information on the state of the economy was expected with today's release of the Commerce Department's updated look at the gross na­tional product for the April­June quarter as well as the first look at corporate profits for the period. 
Many analysts were looking for little or no change from an original report a month ago that showed the economy growing at a slight 0.4 percent annual rate in the second quar­ter. 
That compared with a sharp 
2.8 percent decline in the first quarter and a 1.6 percent drop in the last three months of 1990. 
Economists will be studying today's revisions for clues as to how the economy is performing in the current July-September quarter. 
For instance, most analysts anticipate that production of goods for inventories was weaker in the second quarter than estimated earlier. That may reduce the GNP figure for that period, but it is a favorable development for the future. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR ·" 





~CLUB 
ATTENTION SENIORS! ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
IS NOW OPEN 
9 PM-2 AM 
EVERY WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY NIGHT 
ALSO, STUDENT DJs AND CAMPUS BANDS CONTACT ERIC AT 239-7521 
IllALUMNI 

~CLUB 
Lean inventories mean that any pickup in sales will quickly translate Into increased pro­duction at factories and eventually into more jobs. 
On the other hand, the na­tion's trade performance In the quarter likely was somewhat better than thought previously. The Commerce Department said Tuesday the merchandise trade deficit, on a balance of payments basis, shrank to an eight-year low of $15.6 billion in the second quarter. 
Among the threats to the re­covery is the possibility that spreading weakness in Japan and Western Europe will cut demand for U.S. exports, one of the few areas of strength dur­ing the recession. 
Another area of concern is commercial construction. Over­building and the rcluctance of struggling banks and savings institutions to finance new pro­jects has deeply depressed that sector. 
The most closely watched sector -and the largest, rep­resenting two-thirds of the economy -is consumer spend­ing. Consumer confidence picked up earlier this year after the end of the Persian Gulf War, but economists said It will take a reduction In the 6.8 percent unemployment rate and Income gains to sustain their spending. 
"Overall, the economy is growing slowly, but within that there are sectors doing well and sectors doing poorly, regions doing well and regions doing poorly," said economist David Berson of the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
The Northeast and the auto­producing sections of the Mid­west have been hardest hit in the recession, while the Pacific Northwest and the Southwest have been doing relatively well, he said. 
Earlier this month, the Fed-era) Reserve cut a key short-term interest rate to stimulate the economy. Analysts said the central bank likely was pre­pared to move again In September, but only if the re­covery stumbles. 
"Clearly the Fed Is there and is willing to ease on the first sign that the economy is falter­ing," said economist Mark Zan­di of Hegional Financial Asso­elates in West Chester, Pa. 
llv'rnE FIGHTif\JG ~ American Heart AI 'tOUR LIFE Association v..___j 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
News Writers 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant at 239-5303 
~---­
~ 
page 4 The Observer VVednesday,August28, 1991 

Professor says coup attempt was poorly planned 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Igor Grazin, a member of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R., called last week's attempted overthrow of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev "a had co­incidence of events." 
Grazin, who is also the Paul J. SchierVFort Howard Corp. dis­tinguished visiting professor of ethics at the Notre Dame Law School, was in Moscow during the attempted coup by hard-lin­ers. He was there only to pick up papers for his courses at ND. He returned to the United States Thursday. 

At a press conference Tues­day, Grazin, a native of Estonia and an outspoken independencs ­advocate for the Baltic states, 

Soviets 
continued from page 1 
coup leaders could face the death penalty on charges of high treason. One of the con­spirators, former Interior Min­ister Boris Pugo, was found dead after the coup collapsed, but it was not certain whether he committed suicide or was slain. 
Since the abortive coup, Yeltsin, the Russian Federation president who rallied opposi­tion to the hard-line takeover, has emerged as Gorbachev's partner in government -per­haps the senior partner. 
Gorbachev, speaking to the lawmakers, said Yeltsin agreed with him on the need for some form of unity among the re­publics. If that cannot be pre­served, he said, he would put said that the coup was badly organized from the very start. 

For example, he said he went to the Kremlin last Monday and encountered some Soviet sol­diers there. "Two or three of the soldiers asked me for ci­garettes, and one other one asked me for some sandwiches, because they had not eaten for 10 hours." 
According to Grazin, this indicates that the army "lacked even the elementary logistics" to pull off the coup. 
In another incident, Grazin interviewed 10 Soviet officers and soldiers. "I asked them 'What are your orders?' and they said 'Our orders were to come here and stay here, and that's that.' I asked them 
the question to Parliament "and leave." 

But the resignation threat did not have the force it would have before the coup. Many ordinary Soviets blame Gor­bachev for appointing the hard­line coup leaders to positions of power in the first place and resent the hardships caused by the Soviet Union's moribund economy. 
Participating in Tuesday's talks on economic unity were Gorbachev; Yeltsin; Askar Akayev, Kirghizia's president; and Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev. 
The presidents agreed to try to complete negotiations on the economic agreement within 10 days, and to hold separate, parallel negotiations on politi­cal unity, Akayev said. 
All the republics have said they want to continue economic ties, since their industries are tightly linked and would suffer from ;l hr,:mlc in t.rMIP. 
'Where do you get your new orders?' and they said 'We don't know. The radios don't work.'" 
The atmosphere of Moscow during the coup, according to Grazin, was one full of anger, but also full of irony. "The peo­ple were laughing at the junta," he said. 
As one example of the irony, Grazin noted that one tank he saw carried a sign with "a four­letter word" addressed to the Soviet commander-in-chief. This sign, Grazin said, showed that "laughing at the enemy is a useful weapon." 
Grazin said that he was able to move freely, and he never feared for his own life during the coup, as the people in charge of the coup "tried to preserve the image of legality, and arresting or kidnapping a deputy would undermine that legality." 
However, he and the other deputies of the Supreme Soviet did fear for their families. "We were afraid that our families might become hostages." For­tunately, he said, that never happened. 
The thing that saved Gor­bachev's life, according to Grazin, was the fact that "Muscovites had picked up enough experience to violate Gorbachev's decrees," such as his ban on rallies and political demonstrations in Moscow, which was issued May 1990. "If they had been obedient," Grazin said, "perhaps Gorbachev would not be alive anymore." 

Concerning the future, Grazin said that the Soviet Union will be replaced by a new political union which will not include the three Baltic republics of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. "The Soviet Union as one unit is gone forever," he said. 
As for his personal future, Grazin will continue teaching at the ND Law School. This past June, he finished writing a manuscript which he has titled "Moscow Conventions." Now, Grazin thinks he has the perfect subtitle for it: "From Demo­cratic Elections to Junta." 
Grazin hopes that his press conference represents "my 'swan's song' as an elected po­sition." 

Bush considers the recognition of Baltics 
KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine (AP) -President Bush held a far-reaching review with senior advisers Tuesday on the revolu­tion in the Soviet Union, and the administration signaled it would grant formal recognition to the breakaway Baltic states as early as Friday. 
Administration leaders read­ily acknowledged they were un­sure what will be left of the So­viet empire and the central gov­ernment in the aftermath of the collapse of communist power. 
"I don't think anyone knows what the end product is going to look like," said Robert Strauss, the new U.S. ambas­sador to the Soviet Union. "It looks to me like my job may have a lot less geography in­volved and a lot less travel. It may also be far more complex in terms of the problems." 
He said Gorbachev and 
Yeltsin, partners in trying to prevent the nation from col­lapsing in chaos, appear to have established a good working relationship. 
He said Gorbachev had ap­peared disoriented in the im­mediate aftermath of the three­day coup against him but now was "on top of things ... and very sensitive to them." 
Meanwhile, Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., released a let­ter signed by 21 senators of both parties calling on Bush to extend immediately diplomatic recognition of the Baltic states. 
"The time for recognition is now," he said, reciting at a news conference the growing list of nations who have taken such action. "The United States ought to be in the lead on this issue ... There is no excuse for waitinl!." 
"We should stand with Yeltsin and the Baltic people in the name of freedom and justice," said the letter addressed to Bush. "We strongly urge that the United States seize this moment in history." 
Strauss met with Bush as his seaside home, joined by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, chief of staff John Sununu, national security adviser Brent Scowcroft, his deputy, Robert Gates, who is Bush's nominee to head the CIA, and Ed Hewitt, the senior Soviet specialist on the National Security Council staff. 
As a growing list of nations granted recognition to the Baltics, it appeared likely that the United States would extend diplomatic ties with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia before week's end. 

"Stick With The One You Know" 






NDTREDAME 


Welcome Back Students, Faculty & Staff 
•o. ......... 

, ............ 1....... ,_,_, 


Scotch 
Scotch
Remouable 
Heauy Duty
Mounting 
Mounting
Squares 
Squares 
89; 
89~ 

Special Hours: Wed. Aug. 28, 9-7, Thurs. Aug, 29, 9-6 
ON THE CAMPUS 
Vvednesday,August28, 1991 
NO 
Magazine wins medal 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame Magazine has bf!f!n awarded a gold mf!dal by the Council for the Advance­ment and Support of Education (CASE) as one of the nation's lop tf!n higher f!ducation peri­odicals. 
In earlier judging, the magazine had been selected onf! of seven gold medal winners in the university magazine category. The CASE top ten are chosen from among the gold medalists in three categories: university, college, and research magazines. 
The magazine also has re­ceived third place for personal­ity profiles in the Catholic Press Association's 1991 awards competition. The winning pro­file, "The Uncommon Courage of Imani Kuumba" written by Guy Trebay, concerns a single mother raising a family in the midst of the poverty, violence and drugs of New York City's South Bronx. 

The Observer 
CliWI tlt"wlf'tt IJal·kanl f'ompany fJ(II21112B 

More and mon• l'hDs across the country art' recommending Hewlett­
Packard financial and scientific calculators to their students. And for somP very strong reasons. 

"Tlw HI' 4HSX Scientific Expandable has powerful graphics tools that an• rPrnarkahly ht>lpful to student., learn-1;:~··· 
in~ mathematical concept<;. And with thP t>quat.ion solwr fpalun•, it's PXCPIIPnt for applying matlwmal.ics to engim•Ning;• according to Dr. William Hahrneyt>r, a professor of eivil and environmental engine!'ring at Utah StaU• lJniwrsity. 
"ThP HP Busin(•ss Consultant II has an equation solwr and ex!Rnsive 
·IHSX Sd<•ntifie t;xpan.tablt· 
math functions. These free the stu­dents from computational tedium so they can think and interact on a higher level;' says Dr. Lee V. Stiff, a professor of math education at North Carolina StatP University. 
So go check out the HP calculator line at your college bookstore or HP retailer. You'll agree, there's no fa.'iter n>liPffrom the pain of tough problems. 
HP calculators. The best for your success. 
Ff/0'1 HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
page 5 

St. John's students expelled 
NEW YORK (AP) -A St. 
John's University disciplinary 
panel has recommended expul­
sion for four students acquitted 
in court of sexually abusing a 
woman. 
The committee of faculty and 
students said Monday three of 
the students were guilty of be­
havior that disqualified them 
from school. 
The fourth student admitted 
abusing the woman, but 
avoided prosecution by testify­
ing at the trial of the other 
three. 
A jury last month acquitted 
Walter Gabrinowitz, 23, An­
drew Draghi and Matthew 
Grandinetti, both 22, of 
sodomy, sexual abuse and sex­
ual misconduct charges. They 
had been suspended. 
The woman, now 22, testified 
she tried to fight her attackers 
as she lapsed in and out of con­
sciousness from alcohol in 
March 1990. The defense 
claimed the woman willingly 
drank alcohol and consented to 
sex acts. 
Falling rocks kill woman 
CLOVEHDALE, Ind. (AP) ­
An Arcadia woman was killed 
and two men were injured 
early Tuesday when rocks 
thrown from an Interstate 70 
overpass broke the windshields 
on their vehicles. 
Marsa Gipson, 28, was killed 
at approximately 1:30 a.m. 
when two large rocks were 
dropped on her westbound car 
from the Manhattan Hoad 
overpass, said state police offi­
cer Sgt. Gary Salsman. 
Gipson was struck in the 
head and upper chest by a rock 
measuring 10 inches in 
diameter. She was pronounced 
dead at the scene by the 
Putnam County coroner. 
A 20-pound rock glanced off the hood and went through the windshield on the passenger's side, injuring Stanley Hamby, 25, of New Castle, who was treated at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis and released. 
A semi driven by Kimberly Schutler, 23, of Scranton, Pa., also was hit by rocks, police said. Schutler was not hurt, but her co-driver, James Polites, 29, also of Scranton, sustained a broken leg. He was in satis­factory condition at Methodist Hospital. 
Several other rocks were found under the overpass, about eight miles west of the Cloverdale-Greencastle exit, police said. No arrests have been made. 
State police said there have been several rock-throwing in­cidents along that stretch of In­terstate this summer. 
"We've attempted to catch individuals previously with no success," said Salsman. 
We need vou. 
ftAmerican Heart ""Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING~ 
'tOUR LIFE 

page 6 The Observer VVednesday,August28, 1991 
Adams given GEM award for minority recruitment 
Special to The Observer 
Howard Adams, executive di­rector of the National Consor­tium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering, Inc. (GEM), has been chosen the 1991 recipient of the Vincent Bendix Minorities in Engineer­ing Award by the American So­ciety for Engineering Educa­tion. 
The award is presented annually to an educator for outstanding achievements in 

Howard Adams 

increasing minority and female participation in engineering graduate degrees. Seventy programs. engineering and science 
Adams, a Danville, Va., native, institutions and 79 industrial or has been GEM's executive government research director for the past 13 years. laboratories participate. 
Summer internships, stipends, 
GEM, headquartered at Notre tuition and fees are awarded on Dame, is an educational, non­a competitive basis to Native­profit organization that offers American, African-American, paid summer internships and Mexican-American, and Puerto financial aid for minority Rican recipients of bachelor's engineering students seeking degrees for graduate studies. 

duce "a rather substantial drain on the staff." 
Maids 
Starting next year, the laun­dry department will take over
continued from page 1 
the distribution of linen. 
crews in each residence hall. 
In another change, all the
Woods said that he is making housekeepers in the residencethis change somewhat reluc­halls will now report to work attantly, as he fears it will pro­7 a.m. Last arrived at 

------------------~~~ 
Positions 
continued from page 1 
One such project involves a three-year Lily grant recently received by the University to increase cultural diversity awareness in the residence halls, according to O'Hara. Firth will work with the Office of Minority Student Affairs, the Office of Residence Life, Cam­pus Ministry and hall staffs in planning and developing pro­grams to utilize the grant, O'Hara said. 
Taking Firth's place as Direc­tor of Residence Life is Betsy Pawlicki, who had previously served as Acting Director. a project manager in the ~omn 
A change at the department Bend Housing Authority, and level of Student Affairs was the has also worked for community hiring of a new director for the organizations such as the Ur­Department of Minority Stu­ban League of St. Joseph dent Affairs. Iris Outlaw will County and the Hispanic Task assume this position, also serv­Force. ing as a liaison between O'Hara The interviewing process for and other University officials Outlaw's job was conducted by on matters relating to minority a multi-cultural, "integrated issues. committee" of faculty, staff and 
Outlaw replaces Durgans, three students, according to who resigned after the close of O'Hara. 

different times and took their breaks at different times. Woods believes that this "created some perspective problems on the part of ob­servers." 
Woods said that these changes have been met with very positive responses from the students and the rectors. 
rector of Minority Student Af­fairs is the first of its kind, having been budgeted but un­filled last year, according to O'Hara. 
Although previous considera­tion for the job had focused on the applicant's having a mas­ter's degree, O'Hara said Fuentes' "familiarity with the "We've presented the changes to the HPC (Hall Presidents Council), and we've got excel­lent feedback from the HPC." 
According to Woods, the re­sponse was even better when the changes were introduced to the housekeepers three weeks ago. "They responded with a round of applause." 
Regan
Notre D~mc experience lrum the position of a minority stu­dent is a desirable plus for the office" that others could not of­fer. 
With the addition of Outlaw and Fuentes, the Office of Mi­nority Student Affairs was moved from the mezzanine level of LaFortune to the second 
These changes, Woods said, will be constantly reviewed. "That's a basic fundamental of sound management." 
One of the best things to come out of the changes of the past two years, according to Woods, is the "ongoing dialogue which didn't use to exist with regards to these procedures." 
r space y occupie 
by the Office of Alcohol and 
Drug Education and student 
organizations to "maximize 
space," according to O'Hara. 
Finally, O'Hara has named Mark Pogue as Coordinator of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Pogue comes to Notre Dame after serving as the assistant director of the Al­cohoVDrug Information Center at Indiana University. 
His office, recently moved to 
the area formerly occupied by 
Minority Student Affairs, will 
work to develop and 
implement awareness of the 
dangers of alcohol and drug 
abuse through campus events 
and presentations. 
Pogue brings to Notre Dame an undergraduate degree in Chemistry and master's of Science degree in Health and Safety Education from Indiana University in 1989. He has been active in BACCHUS and the Indiana Collegiate Drug Prevention Network, according to O'Hara. 

school for the summer. "I did Assisting Outlaw will be Mari some restructuring," she said, Fuentes, formerly an assistant 
CLUBS &ORGANIZATIONS!
"and he tendered his resigna­director of the Notre Dame tion in connection with that." Alumni Association. Fuentes 
Outlaw comes to the Univer­was graduated from Notre sity with an undergraduate de­Dame in 1989 after four years gree from Indiana University in in which she worked as a mi­
MAKE SURE YOU'VE SIGNED UP FOR
1973 and a master of science nority student recruiter and as in administration degree from a member of the Multi-cultural Notre Dame last year. Executive Committee. 
She most recently worked as Her position as Assistant Di-
CAMPOS ACTIVITIES NIGHT! 
September 3rd 
Litnited space still available Stop by Student Activities Office 315 Lafortune Deadline: Thursday Aug. 29th For more info call239-7308 


VVednesday,August28, 1991 The Observer page? 

Abortion protesters fight clinics, judge 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) -A fed­and the Rev. Pat Mahoney of eral judge Tuesday offered to Boca Raton, Fla. free jailed Operation Rescue Kelly said anyone arrested leaders and other abortion from now on will not get a sec­protesters if clinic blockades ond chance. Previously, people end. had to have two or more arrests 
"If leaders step before me and or had to be deemed leaders tell me Operation Rescue is before they were subject to over, all of those incarcerated contempt of court proceedings. today can expect to be released The judge said he has now at a moment's notice," U.S. ordered that each person ar­District Judge Patrick Kelly said rested be brought before him. during a hearing. Tuesday was another quiet 
Law enforcement sources said day at all three Wichita abor­the national anti-abortion tion clinics, two of which are group has pledged to cease ille­covered by Kelly's order barring gal protests as a step toward protesters from blocking freeing its leaders. But no access. Some protesters pick­promises had been made to the eted at Women's Health Care group in return, said three Services, which is operated by sources who spoke on condition Dr. George Tiller. But there of anonymity. were no arrests. 
Michael McMonagle of The protesters are targeting Philadelphia, Operation Res­Tiller because his clinic is one cue's acting director, said local of few nationwide that perform anti-abortion leaders are now late-term abortions. in charge of the "rescues," or In court Tuesday, Kelly said attempts to block access to he knows how Tiller feels now. abortion clinics. The doctor wears a bulletproof 
But he added: "I think it's fair vest and has been the target of to say rescues will not be as many threats. The judge also frequent as during the 'Summer has received threats and has a of Mercy,' but more frequent detail of federal marshals as­than in the past." signed to guard him 24 hours a 
Since demonstrations and day. clinic blockades started July 15, The judge sentenced two there have been more than more protesters to 60 days in 2,600 arrests of more than jail for contempt Tuesday. He 1,500 people. About 24 have told them they were good and been jailed after being found in decent people. 
AP Photo contempt of court. Both men, one from Balti­Among them are three Opera­more, Md., and one from St. 
Anti-abortion protests increase around the country as the conflict heats 
tion Rescue leaders: Keith Tucci Paul, Minn., told the judge of 
up. Earlier this year protestors from around the nation marched on the 
of Charleston, S.C., the group's their deep religious beliefs and 
Washington Monument grounds. 
executive director; the Rev. Joe their motivation for keeping Slovenec of Cleveland, Ohio; patients from entering clinics. 
Eck donates 
$1 million 
for stadium 

Special to The Observer 
Advanced Drainage Sys­tems, Inc., of Columbus, Ohio, and Notre Dame alumnus Franklin Eck, the firm's chairman, president and chief executive officer, have made a gift of $1 million to the University for the construction of a new baseball stadium. 
The stadium will be part of a general redevelopment of the University's playing fields for both intramural and intercollegiate· athletics. It will replace Jake Kline Field, the University's baseball facility since 1963, freeing that site for future construction. 
The new facility will be named Frank E. Eck Sta­dium and will feature a lighted grass playing field with 1,500 permanent and 1,500 temporary seats. 
Eck was graduated from Notre Dame in 1944 with a degree in chemical engineering. He has previously endowed a collection in chemical engineering in the lies­burgh Library and under­written the construction of Eck Tennis Pavilion, an in­door recreational tennis facility. 
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. is a producer of corrugated plastic drainage pipe. 
Smith trial judge to stay 
Reporter's death still a mystery 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. (AP) taken, Frost said. tions made in 1983 that theLead prosecutor Moira Lasch -A reporter who said he was "The tests so far indicate that Justice Department stole com­
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. also had accused Lupo of bias (AP) -William Kennedy for postponing the trial until 
investigating a possible gov­he was not incapacitated by any puter programs developed by Smith's trial judge on Tuesday Jan. 13. 
ernment plot had traces of a drug they have found," Frost INSLAW Inc., a Washington rerused to remove herself from Smith's attorneys responded 
painkiller and an anti-depres­said. company. sant in his blood when he died Frost said earlier that Caso­The company has alleged in
the case. Monday that the state motion with his wrists slashed, author­laro's death was consistent with court that the Justice Depart­
had no legal basis and was an Judge Mary Lupo of Palm attempt to go "judge-shop­
ities said Tuesday. a suicide. He said he saw no ment, which gave INSLAW a A blood sample from Joseph evidence of foul play, but didn't $10 million contract, then stole
Beach County Circuit denied ping." 
Casolaro, 44, of Fairfax, Va., rule it out. Frost said he found software designed to help law
the prosecution's request in a one-sentence order. An appeals court removed 
contained tiny amounts of nothing in the tests to change enforcement officials track Tylenol No. 3, which contains his mind. cases. Government officials
Prosecutors had argued that Lupo from a 1989 personal-in­Lupo had shown bias in her jury case on a defense request, 
codeine, a narcotic, said Dr. Combining codeine with an have denied the allegations. rulings and even her facial ex­but Smith's attorneys said that 
James Frost, an assistant state anti-depressant may enhance The software, useful in medical examiner. the effect of either drug, ac­tracking dissidents, may have
pressions, and had lacked can­decision was based on Lupo's His blood also contained cording to the Physician's Desk been traded to foreign intelli­dor about potential personal adversarial role, not her ex­traces of an anti-depressant, Reference, a standard gence agencies, INSLAW owner
conflicts in tho case. pressions, and that the Florida Supreme Court ruled such ex-
but in an amount too small to reference book. Bill Hamilton charges. 
determine the specific drug Casolaro's body was found A Berkeley County coroner Aug. 10 by employees at~ hotel ruled that Casolaro's death was in Martinsburg, in the Eastern a suicide and his body was em­
********************************************************~ Panhandle. He was lying in a balmed within hours by a local
• * 
bathtub with both wrists funeral home. Family members slashed several times. A single­said they weren't consulted be­
! FRESHMAN WELCOME WEEK ! 
edge razor blade was found in fore the embalming and Caso­: * the tub. laro's brother and others said Casolaro had been working the action may have destroyed for a year on a book on allega-evidence.
! TONIGHT! !
• * 
* * 
* *
! "FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF" :! "FRESHMEN MOVIE NIGHT"' ! * * F R E E * ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM * 
*: (CUSHING) *! ,._ 7:00 PM & 9:30 PM * * * 
* * 
* *
*! Bus leaves ND Main Circle *! ! THURSDAY, AUGUST 29 at 6:45 PM, 7: 15 PM, ! ! "'FRESHMAN BOWLING NIGHT"" 7:45 PM, 8:15PM & 8:45 PM ! ! AT UNIVERSITY LANES Lest shuttle leaves : : 7:00 PM-1 1:00 PM University Lanes at 11:00 PM ! 
* * 
: $1.75 per game w/ ND I.D. ! : Shoes: $1.30/pr. !
* FREE Transportalion !: 
* • 
: For more information call 239-7308 
~********************************************************~ 



----~ ~-----~--------______, 
The Observer Wednesday, August 28, 1991 
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
SIGN UP AUGUST 27-30 
NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK (9:00 A.M.-9:00 P.M.) 
WHO: Class of 1992 
WHEN: Pictures taken September 2-20 
WHERE: Third Floor, LaFortune 
WHY: To Be In 1992 DOME 
Minimum sitting fee $10.00 

., "f" I ,•J

VVednesday,August28, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Militants fight proposed nuclear plant 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP)­Militant environmentalists staged a mock nuclear plant accident Tuesday in front of the state Capitol to protest a pro­posal to consolidate U.S. nu­clear weapons plants in Ten­nessee. 
The U.S. Energy Department scheduled hearings Wednesday and Thursday at Oak Hidge, one of live sites being considered for a new weapons production plant to be called Complex 21. 
During the demonstration, sirens blared and white carbon dioxide flakes sputtered from a fire extinguisher operated by a Greenpeace worker hidden in a box said to represent the Rocky 
Quit smoking. 
Flats nuclear weapons plant near Denver. 
Tom Clements of Atlanta, a Greenpeace campaigner against nuclear weapons, said the tO­second carbon dioxide shower represented nuclear fallout that Tennessee residents would see if they let the proposed plant be built. 
"We're totally opposed to Oak Ridge receiving this nuclear plant," Clements told a small crowd on Legislative Plaza. 
"Why is the United States government bent on moderniz­ing its nuclear weapons capa­bility now that the Cold War has ended? What this newly configured complex would mean is that the Cold War levels of nuclear weapons would be maintained." 
More than 300 people have signed up to testify at the DOE hearings, which a spokesperson said would not be allowed to become a forum for anti-nu­clear comment. 
"We're not here to solicit comments on the merits of re­configuration of the weapons com.plex," said Howard Canter, the senior DOE official in Oak Ridge for the hearings. 
"We're here to gather com­ment on the issues that should be addressed." 
The push behind Complex 21 was Energy Secretary James Watkins' assessment that the nation's nuclear weapons building complex -12 sites in 11 states -was too old and too spread out, and didn't pay enough attention to environ­mental consequences. 
Clements also released a copy of a letter to Gov. Ned McWherter, urging him to withdraw his endorsement of efforts by Oak Ridge, site of nuclear weapons plants since World War II, to attract Com­plex 21. 
"Your chance to speak out for peace, environmental clean up and economic conversion of the Oak Ridge area has arrived," said the letter. 
\NE'RE FIGHTII'JG Frn American Heart &:~a 
ngineering student? Smart. Math or science major? Also smart. 
On tests, you probably run equations over again to make sure they're right. So 
you're working harder. 
You don't have to do it anymore. Not when you use the 11,68 Advanced 
Scientific or TI,S1 Graphics Calculator, with their last equation replay feature 
YOJRUFE 
Association ~ 
and so many other smart functions. 
We've spent years with stUdents like you and edu, cators like your professors to develop the 11,68 and the 11,81. That's why they're so highly recommended. 
For engineering students, The 11,68 solves up to five simultaneous equations, provides complex number functions and offers formula programming. That's power. 
And for math and science applications, the 11,81 offers the 
most compre, hensive, yet easy, t~use graphing functions with ex, tensive program, ming capabilities. 
Try a 11,68 or 11,81 at your local 11 retailer today. 

And start working smarter, instead of harder. 
TEXAS 

INSTRUMENTS 

Yugoslavian leaders try for pea~e 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Croatia's president ex­pressed a slight hope for peace Tuesday night after meeting with Yugoslav military leaders to prevent fighting in the republic from escalating into all-out war. 
Croatian officials indicated 
that if the talks failed they 
would call up all able-bodied 
men for militia duty to fight 
federal troops and Serbian in­
surgents. 
Croatian President Franjo 
Tudjman and his senior 
defense officials met on the 
Adriatic island of Brion! with 
the federal defense minister, 
Gen. Veljko Kadijevic, and the 
army chief of staff, Gen. 
Blagoje Adzic, a Serbian hard­
liner. 
"I think Croatia can sleep 
peacefully and not expect an 
all-out army attack on Croatia's 
democratically elected 
government," Tudjman said 
after the talks. "There is a cer­
tain amount of hope left that 
we can avoid the escalation of 
war imposed on Croatia. But 
whether anything will change 
remains to be seen." 
Tudjman was scheduled to travel to Paris on Wednesday to confer with French President Francois Mitterrand. llis arch­rival, Serbian President Slobo­dan Milosevic, was invited to go to Paris after Tudjman, the Yu­goslav state news agency Tan­jug reported. 
France and other European Community nations have acted as intermediaries to bring peace to the Balkan nation, but without success. 
On Tuesday, European Com­
munity foreign ministers meet­
ing in Brussels, Belgium, issued 
their most partisan statement 
on the crisis, endorsing claims 
by Croatia that Serbia is insti­
gating attacks by the federal 
army and by ethnic Serb guer­
rillas to try to expand Its bor­
ders. 
Germany and Italy are urging 
the EC to recognize the June 25 
independence declarations of 
Croatia and Slovenia if the 
fighting persists. More than 
250 people have died in the 
fighting involving Croatian se­
curity forces, Serb guerrillas 
and federal soldiers. 
Croatian officials, who have 
been on the defensive in most 
of the fighting, indicated they 
were preparing to step up their 
attacks. 
"Real war is being waged in a large part of Croatia," Croatian Deputy Premier Mato Granic told reporters in Zagreb, Croatia's capital. Granic said the government would take urgent measures, including a general mobilization, so that "the burden of war could be shared by all citizens." lie pre­dicted a "long, defensive war." 
Serbia's deputy premier, Budimir Kosutic, said in Bel­grade that his republic would take "adequate measures" in response to a general callup in Croatia. lie did not specify what he meant. 
Serbia is Yugoslavia's largest republic and opposes indepen­dence for neighboring Croatia because of its large Serb minority. Ethnic Serbs dominate the Yugoslav army, and Croats contend the army is aiding Serb rebels in the lighting, a charge the federal military denies. 


-~-~-------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 VVednesday,August28, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-s Editor ...•..•..••.•...••.••••Monica Yant Advertising Manager •.....Julie Sheridan Vi-point Editor .••••••••••.•••••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••.•.••. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Managar .•...•..•••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor .•••••••.•••...•••..John O"Brien Systems Manager .....••..••..... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..••..•••..••••..•..••..•Eric Bailey OTS Director ••...•....••..•...••.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••••••.•••Emily Willen Controller•..•.••...•••...••..•Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader reacts to editor's column and NO minorities 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to Kelley Tuthill's column (The Observer, May 3). If she has ever been to Mexico, she must be well aware of the fact that conditions for the majority of the folks in that country are miserable to say the very least. 
Each month, however, thou­sands of them are swarming across the Texas border seeking refuge mostly in the metropolitan areas. Even though they are undocumented aliens, they manage to obtain jobs and a variety of assistance in the form of welfare, educa­tional seminars to teach them English, their kids are admitted to our schools, etc. 
After they have been here a short period of time, not all of them but many begin to vehe­mently complain about the po­litical system, educational sys­tem, welfare programs, work­men's compensation, health programs, transportation, unemployment compensation, and on and on and on. 
Tuthill certainly reminds me of those people. In one of her columns she stated that the University is not meeting the needs of its women and ethnic minorities. I don't believe there is anything that can be done to satisfy people like her. 
We 

f"'..-..;;;;;.-;;;;;-........,?:!~~;.;.:,=.;;~------,-,:i;.T~~~~ 
association have put back mil­lions of dollars into the Univer­sity to improve the quality of the education for the students. Yet, whatever the University does, it's not enough! 
When I ran a manufacturing company years ago, I had the same experience; it didn't make any difference how much we paid the employees or how much we did for them in the way of fringe benefits such as profit sharing, it was never enough. 
Probably the biggest mistake the University made was when they decided to admit women and decided to build up minor­ity representation. 
Tuthill must have a lot of time on her hands. When I was on campus, I had to spend every available moment in class, 
~ preparing for a class, and holding down three part-time jobs. What a luxurious experi­ence she must be enjoying that she has enough time on her hands to tell the administration how to run the University. Frankly, if I was investing $18,000 per year for an educa­tion, I'd switch schools if the one I was attending didn't meet with my satisfaction. 


Viewpoint Department Policy 
The following is the Viewpoint Department Policy: 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, or cartoons to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. While individuals not associ­ated with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the View­point department gives priority to those individuals who are di­rectly associated with the community. 
II . All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons sub­mitted to the Viewpoint de­partment become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a mem­ber may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in­chief or the permission of the managing editor and the View­point editor. If the commen­taries have not been printed in The Observer, the Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors. 
III. The Viewpoint de­partment reserves the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint depart­ment. The Observer has no obligation to print commen­taries submitted. Commen­taries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible.
IV. 

All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circum­stances will unsigned commen­taries appear in print in the Viewpoint section of The Ob­server. The author's name ap-
Correction 
pearing in print must be one by which the author is commonly known. · 
V. Commentaries submit­ted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or or­ganization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries ap­pear in print as columnists
VI. 

All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. The means of verifi­cation are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VII. Only those indi­viduals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organiza­tion's name. In such cases, the primary author of the commen­tary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the or­ganization.
VIII. 

Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or pub­lications. Exceptions to this procedure are those organiza­tions of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. 
IX. 

The opinions ex­pressed in the Viewpoint sec­tion are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House edi­torials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regu­lar columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; and cartoons are com­mentaries. Such status is de­termined by the Viewpoint 
QOUTE OF THE DAY 
editor in all incidences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the In­sta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 
X. Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries ap­pear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commen­taries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose commen­taries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that commentary in letters to the editor. 
XI. 
This policy must be approved be the editorial board and can be amended by a ma­jority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not cov­ered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The proce­dures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. 
XII. 
No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning and candidate for student government or hall of­fice once the official campaign period has begun for that of­fice. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer re­serves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor­in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. 
This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 

In Rich Delevan's column yes­terday, the fourth article should have read: "Some arguments are worth thinking about; ethnic-American authors have been neglected by academia and American society does need to rethink its cultural self­conception." The Observer regrets the error. 
'We are what we pretend to be.' 
Kurt Vonnegut Jr. 

Have a good lyric, proverb or quotation? It doesn't matter who said it, all that matters is what was said Mail it in to: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent ­
VVednesday,August28, 1991 Page 11 

'Think Happy
Thoughts' 
Cancer took Jay Kelly's lite, but his spirit endures 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Editor-in-Chief 
W 
hen Marianne Melnyk starts to get sad thinking about the Joss of her friend and boyfriend Jay Kelly, something always happens that makes her smile and forget about the pain for a while. "I know that's Jay," she says. 
According to friends, that's what Jay wanted-for his friends to be happy and not dwell on the sadness of the situation. When Jay would got depressed or scared about his illness, Melnyk would tell him, "Think happy thoughts." Now it is she who tries only to think happy thoughts about the friend she lost prematurely. 
Haymond Kelly IV, or Jay as he was known, died on July 15 after a two-year battle with cancer. University President Father Edward Malloy, a close friend of Jay's, presided at the Mass of Christian Burial in Flushing, Michigan. 
Friends from Sorin Hall served as pallbearers at the mass. They included Andrew Pauline (a friend since high school), Terrence Murphy, John Evans, Jeremy Langford and Tom Gerth (also a friend since high school). 
A resident of Sorin Hall, Jay was diagnosed with Ewing's sarcoma after his freshman year at Notre Dame, says Father Steve Newton, rector of Sorin. He was not able to come back for his sophomore year, but visited frequently. 
During what would have been his sophomore year, Jay was undergoing chemotherapy to fight off tho cancer. A student in tho Program of Liberal Studies at ND, Jay took courses at the University of Michigan-Flint when he was able. 
During his Junior year, Jay was able to return to ND and stayed as long as his health allowed him, according to Newton. lie continued to come back and visit during what would have been the second semester of his junior year, even auditing some classes, Melnyk says. 
Even though he was suffering a lot, he always seemed more concerned that his friends and family were all right, says Murphy. "If you met Jay, you would never know he was sick. He had an incredible ability to joke about his illness," Pauline says. 
All who knew him attested to the fact that his sense of humor helped Jay get through the illness. "When Tom Gerth and I were at his house around the time he died, there were oxygen tanks and he was breathing badly. He wasn't sleeping much and was tired. I thought, 'There's no way he's enjoying life.' But he had us laughing." 
Jay tried practically everything to help him rid his body of the cancer. During his two-year ordeal, he had an operation at Harvard University to remove a third of his pelvic bone, chemotherapy, radiation, Immunotherapy, diet and a trip to the Loudres shrine In France. 
"He never wanted to give up," says Melnyk. Before Jay made his pilgrimage to Loudres, Malloy asked him what he expected to find there. He replied that he didn't expect to be healed, but hoped to be given greater strength. 
Friends attest to the fact that Jay had tremendous faith in God. Entries in his journal, which he kept from high school through his illness, are often concerning faith and his desire to help others. 
"No matter how bad it got, he was always looking at what God had given him, not what He had taken away," says Murphy. "lie really lived," agrees Langford. "We are all empowered to go on is his spirit." 
Jay's attitude about God and life taught his friends to appreciate the gifts they have. "He created his own way of living which we can all learn from," says Langford. "If people could just live their lives like he did, the world would be an incredible place." 
Frequently in his journal, excerpts of which Jay's father compiled for Jay's friends, Jay talks about life, death and God. His relationships with his friends were very important and among his goals for 1989 is to "Keep and get closer to all my friends." 
"In a letter he wrote to me, he said he wished everyone could know for one day how others really feel about them," says Langford. Jay told Pauline that he wished everyone could have the experience of the love and support he received. 
"To me, he really redefined quality of life," says Pauline. While one would expect that Jay would be able to look past the pain in the beginning of the illness, Malloy says it was amazing that his attitude stayed positive until the end. 
"I would ask myself, 'Could someone enjoy life like this?" says Pauline. "But he did." 
"Sometimes we learn more from the unexpected and the schocking than from the other things we do. In that sense, he was a great teacher," says Malloy. 
Jay's family is very close and went through the stages of Jay's illness together, says Malloy. They spent a lot of time talking, crying and supporting one another, he says. 
Jay's friends say it was ironic that his parents, Raymond Kelly III, and Kathleen Brennan Kelly, were supportive of them at a time they thought they were supposed to support the family. Jay's father gave an eloquent talk about Jay at the funeral, says Malloy. 
Jay was the oldest of the five Kelly children including, two sisters, Deirdre and Laura, and two brothers, Tim and 
Top: Jay Kelly hangs out in a Notre Dame dorm room. Above: Jay and his brothers and sisters goof around in there home in Flushing, Mich. From front are David, Tim, Jay, Dierdre, and Laura. 
David. He also was survived by his grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Kelly Jr., and Mrs. Roger Brennan. 
He was preceded ,...,~____,,.-----,----------=---------. 
~~SNotre D~~~::. 
grandfather and great-grandfather. He loved Notre Dame and never gave up trying to return here, says Malloy. 
His parents request that anyone wishing to make a donation in Jay's name may do so to the St. Robert Catholic School in Flushing, Georgetown Prep School in Washington, D.C., or the University of Notre Dame {c/o Chris Carlin, 212 Main Building). 
A University­wide memorial mass is being planned for Jay, but no date has been set as of yet. 
A journal entry 
Final entry in Jay Kelly's Journal 
June30,1991 

To Everyone I Love ­
Well, if one page is all I have, then I'll have to do with it what I can. We've all been given a certain amount and I guess the thing is to do the best we can with it. 
The only thing I can get out right now is thanks. Everyone around has made my life so wonderful-! wouldn't change a thing. Yes, some may say that I've been short-changed or spent too much of it in pain. All of that is a part of life-and I truly believe that life is the most precious thing around. 
Thanks for the memories. When I look back, the only thing that I see are smiles and laughter. I could go on writing for hours and I'd never be close to finished. Hopefully, I've brightened up some of your days, but I really hope I can do more of that in the future. I hope that when you think of me, you think of the good times, because that is how I'll remember you. 
I wish that I had time to tell each one of you how I feel-but you'll have to take this. So I'll say ... Know that I love you-that is, I feel, my greatest gift. Please accept it, and know that you've made one man's life the greatest in the world. 
Catch you on the flip side. 
Love, 
Jay 

dated April 2, 1....------------------~ 1989, said, "Pain is temporary. Victory is forever." (Notre Dame Spring Football, 1989) As Murphy says, "Cancer wasn't the winner-Jay's spirit was victorious." 
:....­
.... 
-
page 12 The Observer VVednesda~August28, 1991 
49ers Montana will miss season opener for first time since 1980 
-
(AP)-Joe Montana has bounced back from serious back surgery and a rash of other injuries. 
But he hasn't missed the 49ers' opening regular-season game since 1980 ... Until now. 
The 35-year-old Montana, the NFL's Most Valuable Player the past two years and the MVP in three of San Francisco's four Super Bowl victories, was placed on injured reserve Tuesday with a sore right elbow that has kept him from throwing for the last three weeks and just doesn't seem to get better. 
That means Steve Young, whose displeasure at riding the bench has been somewhat as­suaged by a contract that pays him $4.5 million for two years, will start Monday night's opener with the Giants -the latest Game of the Century between the two teams that have won four of the last five Super Bowls. 
Montana's disabling was the major development in a day of maneuvering in which many veterans cut on Monday ended a day in limbo and went back on the active roster. 
They included Gerald Riggs of the Redskins; Vince Evans and Jerry Robinson of the Raiders, Billy Ard and Keith Uecker of the Packers, Doug Smith of the Rams, Cliff Stoudt of the Cowboys, Darrin Nelson and Leo Lewis of the Vikings and Skip McClendon and Leo Barker of the Bengals. 
Dexter Manley, cut by the Cardinals on Monday, resur­faced with Tampa Bay. 
"It's strictly a numbers game. Anything can happen, and it did," said Tom Waddle, a three-year player re-signed by the Bears along with fellow wide receiver Glen Kozlowski. "I know they have to protect certain guys. For me, though, I'm going to play the same each day I've played all through training camp." 
All those players cut were the victims -for a day -of the rule that allows a player placed on injured reserve to be reactivated during the season only if he goes on IR after the 47-man roster is set. Several dozen players were put on that list Tuesday; several dozen players were brought back or 
claimed on waivers. 
Other than Montana, the most prominent players to go on injured reserve were running back Ickey Woods of the Bengals, author of the "Ickey Shuffie;" Marcus Dupree of the Rams, attempting to come back after five years recovering from a knee injury incurred in the USFL, and Keith Millard of the VJ.kings, the defensive player of the year in 1989. 
Also placed on IR was Eric Swann, the Cardinals' high-risk No. 1 draft choice who already has undergone two arthroscopic knee operations. 
Swann, the 315-pound de­fensive lineman who was the sixth overall pick, is the first non-college player drafted in the first round since Emil Sitko in 1946. He signed a $4.05 mil­lion, five-year contract right after the draft and injured his left knee in minicamp May 4. 
He has been troubled in training camp by fluid on the knee and will be out four weeks and probably more. With his only post-high school experi­ence with the semi-pro Bay State Titans, he undoubtedly will need a lot of work before he can be thrown into an NFL game. 
Also placed on injured re­serve was Jamie Mueller, the Bills' starting fullback. Mueller has a rare spinal problem that could threaten his career. 
"I'll be out for several weeks, maybe longer," said Mueller, who has cervical stenosis, a narrowing of the spinal canal. 
"The worst-case scenario, if I can't play anymore, I've got to be happy for the time I have in. But I'm hoping and trying to stay confident that it won't come to that." 
Dupree, who came back last year after sitting out five sea­sons with a knee injury sus­tained in the USFL, was placed on IR with a turf toe that had kept him out of practice after he looked good in early camp. Cornerback Carl Carter and free safety Barney Bussey joined Woods, who injured a knee, on the Bengals' injured reserve list. 
The Seahawks brought back wide receiver Paul Skansi and running back Darren Comeaux, who had been waived on Monday. To do that, they had to put quarterback Kelly Stouffer, a former No. 1 draft choice, on injured reserve. 
The 49ers, meanwhile, re­claimed punter Ralf Mojsiejenko, guard Tom Neville and center Dean Caliguire. 
And the Broncos, who placed wide receiver Vance Johnson among others on injured reserve, reclaimed kick returner Kevin Clark. 
There was one trade, the Chiefs getting linebacker Ervin Randle from Tampa Bay for a 1992 conditional fifth-round pick. 
The Bucs, desperate for a better pass rush, had discussed a possible trade for Manley during the preseason wound up getting him for free after coach Richard Williamson changed him mind. 
Williamson said he wasn't interested in hurting the chem­istry of the team, but switched gears after watching tape of Manley on Monday night and making some telephone calls. He says he's not worried about the effect the signing would have on the rest of the club. 
"I don't think there was a change (in attitude). When you sit down and talk about up­grading your team, that's one of the things you consider (team chemistry)," Williamson said. 
Manley is expected to serve as a backup and a pass-rushing specialist. To make room for him, defensive end Jim Skov was waived. 
Tarpley's trail begins in Dallas 
DALLAS (AP) -A jury was Jury selection was allowed seated Tuesday in the to proceed after Dallas County drunken driving trial of Criminal Court Judge Mike Mavericks forward Roy Schwille rejected Ethington's Tarpley, which continues motion to suppress evidence. despite motions to suppress Opening statements were evidence filed by the player's scheduled to begin attorney. Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. 
COT. 

Tarpley's attorney Jay Ethington filed pre-trial Ethington said he will present motions to throw out all state­evidence Wednesday showing ments made at the time the 7­police deliberately targeted foot forward was arrested. the Mavericks player, using cellular phone lines instead of The motions hinged on the police radio lines so the subpoenaed testimony of conversations would not be Linda Adams, an recorded. unauthorized observer in one 
of the arresting officers' 
Prosecutors refused to patrol cars. Ethington said comment on the evidence authorities tried to prevent Ethington said he got from Adams from becoming a wit­police computer files. ness in the case. 
The Observer accepts classdieds every business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classitieds is 3p.m. All classdieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, Room for rent in new home, MUST HAVE INDIANA TIX!III Call ATTENTION ACCENT STAFF: KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE located in Granger, 7 minutes Steve x2366 An honest fan with a large family That means you,NOTICES ENTRANCE, UTILITIES from campus. $350 per month, looking for football tickets. We Gerry Hamilton 
INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. male graduate student NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. personally use what we buy. We Meredith McCullough USED BOOKS CHEAP/!!!!!!!!! 272-0615. preferred. Please call Andy Please help east coast double can afford a fair price. John Fisher 25% off list price or leave message at 271-domer bring his family to an Irish Jeff 272-g602 Laurie Sessa 10-5:30 everyday STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO 8162. victory. Call Sam at Shonda Wilson Pandora's Books comer of ND ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. (201) 334-3804. and Paige Smoron ave & Howard Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. Since you're reading this, that 
FOR SALE NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pitt means you know that the paper has STEAM CLEAN YOUR CARPET THE PARTY starts here. Excellent5 GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR game. Parents will pay well! Call started. GET OFF YOUR DARN Get out those stains and storage bedroom home. Semi-furnished. Couch and furniture for sale. PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1-Tim@ X4063 BOOTIES AND CALL ME SO WE mildew. Beach V-ball court, private parking 287-0060 612-227-7577. CAN GET STARTED ON THE 
r 
$10-You do. $20-We do. lot. Next to other student houses. BEST DAMN YEAR EVER! RAH Call x1541 or x3565 234-3831 or 288-5653. Safe area. COMPUTER DESK-$160. WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND RAH RAH, WOO WOO, Wubba 2 TWIN MATTRESS SETS -$40 HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL NEED 1 St. TX. for MICH St. Wubba Wubba. 3 BEDROOM HOME EACH COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. CAN TRADE 1PITT OR Love, HerbieLOST/FOUND g13 LAWRENCE 1 FULL MATTRESS SET-$60 PURCHASE. Kathy x3958 $500 DEPOSIT, $555 MONTH NOTRE DAME Jen S, FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR 232-3616 258-5201 TICKETS WANTED Call me! I'm in the same place as 
IN MAIN BUILDING. CALL LYN 239-7367. WANTED  ]NICE FURNISHED ROOMS, GOOD AREA, CLOSE TO ND. 277-3097.  PROFESSIONALLY BUILT STUDENT LOFT $50. REFRIGERATOR $40. 289-8404.  271-1371 NOTRE DAME TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL 271-1371.  Please help. Need 2 tickets to IU game., GA or student or both. Call Ann 4011.  last year. Paul. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED N.D. HOME GAMES-OTHER MISC. TIMES AVAilABLE. $4+1HA. 234-2354.  4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, washer/dryer, sand wlleyball, 119 N. St. Peter. 233-9947.  Rug, neutral6x8, $50; Electronic typewriter, $65; dinette table, $50; maple rocking chair, $40; 239-7160, 287-6714.  IU TICKETS? I need them in a big way. Call 283-4098.  PERSONAL  Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. JIMBO  
GOLF SHOP AT LOCAL PRIVATE COUNTRY CLUB NEEDS PART­TIME HELP, PREFERABLE  MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR HOUSE SOUTH OF TOWN. 10  PONTIAC PHOENIX LJ, '80, 118K, WELL-MAINTAINED, $950. 239­60721684-2994.  NEED: 8 GA's for Indiana game Will pay big$$$!! Call X1076 NEEDED:  am the Lizard King and I can do anything. $$$$  Welcome Back! Here's to a great senior year together. Bluv You!  
MOANING HOURS. CALL CHAD AT 282-3727 FOR MORE INFO. FOR RENT  MINS. TO CAMPUS. I'M GONE 6 MONTHS IN YEAR. CALL RICK 291-8155 EVE.; DAY 259-2302, LV. NAME & NUMBER ONLY.  JAGUAR XJS, '79, 56K, AEDIBLACK, AUTO, AIC, LOVINGLY MAINTAINED, $9,000. 239-60721684-2994.  2 GA's for IU game call 272-8735 ask for Shannon $$$$$$$$  Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563  JEFF'S TOP 10 NIEWLAND QUOTES-FINALS WEEK 1991 10 Laura has maximum spread capacity 9 Anyone seen a cake around here?  
...,..  2 BEDROOM ON ND AVE.FURNISHED.272-6306 HOME AWAY FROM HOMEI 2 ROOMS TO RENT, $250/MO., $250 DEP. KITCHEN, LAUNDRY FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ROOM FOR RENT -lARGE HOME 2.5 BLKS FROM ND, $290 MO. UTIL. INCL. 234-0873. NEAR NO -Quaint furnished apts. 1 bedrm $260, 755 South Bend  TICKETS I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 ALUM NEEDS 2 I.U. TX. I WANT  I WANT TO GIVE YOU MONEY... for your IU tix. Need GA's or students. X1236 $$$$$$$$  Happy birthday Joe Roberts. ATTENTION: STUDENTS! $5.50 HAIRCUTS VITO'S BARBER SHOP  8 Is that guy really ugly, or is it just me? 7 If I got f•••d 3 times a day, I'd be a plant too 6 I can't. I don't know what any of these genuses are. 5 No. Disturb me.  
- 232-2794. 2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159.  Ave. 2 bedrm $360, 607 E. Corby. dep. ref. 1-800-582-9320 FOR RENT-605 N. St. Peter, 5  TO COME BACK TO N.D. TO ASK MY GIRLFRIEND TO MARRY MEl WILL PAY $100 FOR 2 GENERAL ADMISSION TX. PLEASE CALL CARL DURING WORK HOURS AT  WANTED TO BUY: student ~cket applications. x1236  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 Walk ins  4 You should charge for this. 3lt's 12:30. You'll have to leave. 2 The Eraser Police. It's a work study program 1 Is 20 less than 15? Yes.  
..  VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only $69.95. VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959.  Bedroom, 1.5 bath, furnished for 3­6. $135 moJeach +share u~lities. Elmer 288-8341, 288-3942. B & B available near ND on football weekends. 271-0989. House for rent, one block from ND, professors, staff, or graduates, 650 month, 234-1714  1-SOQ-745-5402. WANTED: SENIOR TICKET APPLICATION. YOU WILL PROFIT $80. CALL 289-4914. NEEDED BAD: 2 or 4 GA's for the Indiana game. Will pay top dollar\!! Call #3372 ask lor Greg.  if you're not using your ftbl tix appl. I'll buy itl fred @ 2322 Need G.A.s for Indiana and Michigan St. Money no object. Call Ron x2157 I need INDIANA G.A. Tix for Alum $$$$ & friends X1224  Want to learn to dance?! try DANCE DIMENSIONS... new dance studio downtown Mishawaka. Classes in tap, jazz, ballroom, and ballet. Call 255-4611.  Atten~on Andy Weigert CORE Renegades from 1990-91: Irs true, the reunions have begun. We're playing softball Fri. alt. (same spot) & will chow @ Max's off-campus pad alter. Call Raff or Monica for details-Don't miss ill  

VVednesday,August28, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Lendl taken to five sets; all seeds advance at U.S. Open ­
NEW YORK (AP) -This was Ivan Lendl's kind of match, one of those brutally long five-set grinds under a savage sun where it all came down to pain and desire. 
He is the Charles Darwin of tennis, the true believer in sur­vival of the fittest. Nothing pleases him more than to see an opponent melt in the heat or stagger to the finish, especially if the opponent Is younger. 
For Lend!, 31, it is proof that age has nothing to do with strength or stamina, that all the miles he runs and all the weights he lifts are worth the effort. 
Lend! survived Tuesday as he has in the past, coming back from two sets down and two match points from defeat in the first round of the U.S. Open to beat hard-serving, net-charging 19-year-old Richard Krajicek 3­6, 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7 -5), 6-0. 
When the sun was its hottest in that final set, when Krajicek was wobbling on tired legs, his shots having lost their power and his tongue hanging out like a dog's, Lend! looked fresh enough under his white desert cap to play another match and then perhaps a round of golf. 
Three times the U.S. Open champion, five times the run­nerup, Lend! didn't so much overpower Krajicek in the last set as simply outlast him. 
"I thought he was actually going to fall down at that stage," Lend! said after the 3 1/2-hour affair. "After one of those first serves, he was just standing there and resting be­tween the two serves. I thought he may fall over. I was actually worried about him because he was totally red in the face and I don't think he knew exactly where he was. He was feeling awful in my opinion." 
And at exactly that moment, when Krajicek was at his weak­est, Lend! showed him what it takes to win, getting up on his toes and bouncing a few times as if it were the first game of the day. 
Krajicek, one of several strong young players from the Netherlands, seemed on his way to an upset of the No. 5 seed as he uncorked 120 mph serves and ruled the net in the first two sets while Lend! stayed cautiously at the baseline. 
But it is never wise to count Lend! out of a match, especially if he spots a weakness in an opponent. In this case, Lend! saw Krajicek tire in the third set and make mistakes, espe­cially on his backhands. Lend! responded by drilling shot after shot to the backhand. 
"He wasn't serving it hard in the third set for some reason," Lend! said. "He was slowing down very quickly, and once I had got my foot in the door, I didn't want to let him close it. I wanted him to open it more and more." 
The door opened just enough to give Lend! a chance to tie the match in the fourth set, but then it looked ready to close again when Krajicek broke Lendl's serve with brilliant forehands to go ahead 6-5. 
Krajicek, weary and eager to end it, smacked one of his 19 aces to take a 40-15 lead and hold two match points. Lend!, reluctant to charge the net most of the match, attacked with a volley that forced an error by Krajicek, then fought off the second match point with a backhand winner. 
"On the first one, I said to myself, 'You better make this one,"' Lend! said. "And then I saw him moving really badly to that shot, so I thought he is not moving. So, next one, when he missed the first serve, I said, 'Make sure you push it in so he has to move to it.' You don't miss it. You toe the line. And it turned out to be a winner." 
Lend! broke Krajicek with a volley winner and and a fore­hand, then pushed harder in the tiebreaker while the teen­ager wilted. Krajicek double­faulted to fall behind 6-5 after holding a 4-2 lead, then lost the set when he couldn't reach a short overhead backhand volley by Lend!. 
The victory allowed Lend! to avoid his earliest exit in a Grand Slam event since losing at Wimbledon In the first round in 1981 in a five-setter against Charlie Fancutt. 
He has come back from two sets down to even a match seven times in his career, win­ning four and losing three. At Wimbledon earlier this summer, he came back from two sets down to beat MaliVai Washington. 
Lend! wasn't the only high men's seed to encounter trou­ble, although none suffered the fate of first-day loser Andre Agassi. No. 2 Stefan Edberg beat Bryan Shelton 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7 -4), 6-1; No. 3 Michael Stich beat Jacco Eltingh 7-6 (7-5), 6­1, 6-0, and No. 9 Sergi Bruguera edged Tomas Carbonell 3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7­3), 6-3. 
Two other seeds won In straight sets, but no• withou\) some difficult moments. No. 1 Boris Becker beat Martin Jalte 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, 6-4 while Jim Courier, No. 4, had an easier time beating Nicklas Kulti 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. 
"Of the four Grand Slams, this is the toughest to win, be­cause of the off-court distrac­tions," said Becker, who wit­nessed a stabbing in Times Square a few days before the tournament started. 
Courier, the French Open champion, was pleased with his play and with the way has life has turned since winning his first Grand Slam event. 
"In the past nobody would have known who I was in the streets," he said. "Everything Is going great, really. All my plan­ets are in the correct orbit." 
In women's matches, No. 4 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario beat Katia Piccolinl 6-0, 6-1; No. 5 Mary Joe Fernandez beat Larisa Savchenko 6-3, 6-3; No. 6 Martina Navratllova beat Patricia Tarabinl 6-2, 6-2; and No. 9 Jana Novotna beat Ann Grossman 6-3, 4-6, 6-1. 
Detmer, BYU preparing for top-ranked Florida State squad 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­How do you improve on a lleisman Trophy season? Ty Detmer faces such a challenge this year, and he's also coming off surgery to repair a sepa­rated right shoulder. 
Nevertheless, his coach at Brigham Young says Detmer will do just fine. 
"I don't think there's any question Detmer is going to be a better quarterback than he was last year," LaVell Edwards said. "I don't know if his numbers will reflect that. lie's got a new cast this year. 
"lie appears to be even stronger this year than he was 
before. During the rehabilita­tion of his shoulder, he spent a lot of time in the weight room." 
Detmer will get his first op­portunity to work with his new cast Thursday night when BYU, ranked 19th in The Associated Press preseason poll, faces top­ranked Florida State in the Pigskin Classic at Anaheim Stadium. 
"It's tough, being a young team getting ready for the No. 1 team in the nation," Detmer said. "It's been tough trying to get everything together. We've gotten better through two-a­days. 
"I'm very confident with 
what we can do with a young team. We're not going in just fired up and crazy. We're going in with a focus in mind. We know we're young, we know we're inexperienced. We'll be ready at game-time." 
Detmer enters his senior season needing only 426 yards passing to become the NCAA career passing leader. Last year, he passed for an NCAA single­season record 5,188 yards and a career-high 41 touchdowns. 
Should he win the Heisman Trophy again, Detmer would become only the second double­winner of the award, joining_ Ohio State's Archie Griffin, who was honored as college foot­ball's best player in 1974-75. 
The Cougars, 10-3 last sea­son, will be providing the oppo­sition for a preseason No. 1 se­lection for the second straight year. They can only hope for the same result -they upset Miami 28-21 in 1990. 
"It would be nice if we had a game under our belt," said Detmer, recalling that the Cougars had beaten Texas-E) Paso 30-10 before upsetting Miami a year ago. "But this is probably as good a time as any to play them." 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said Tuesday it's time to fmd out If his Seminoles are, indeed, the nation's best team. 
"We've talked about how good they are," he said before his team left Florida. "Now, we're about to find out. 
"In 1988, they picked us to be No. 1 ... I'd never been there, my players had never been there ... We didn't know how to act..} hope now we know how to act. 
Florida State was ranked No. 1 before the start of the 1988 season, but that didn't last long 
the Seminoles were overpowered 31-0 by Miami in their season-opener. 
Twins may undergo some pitching changes as problems mount 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -The A high-ranking member of Twins sport baseball's best the front office suggested that record but enter the final six Scott Erickson, who has a 7.83 weeks of the season with essen­ERA in his past 10 starts and tially a two-man starting staff. seems to tire by the third or 
fourth inning, might benefit 
David West was returned to from skipping a turn, the Star the rotation Monday and Allan Tribune reported Tuesday. Anderson returned to the bullpen. And, with three days Pitching coach Dick Such off over the next nine days, said the Twins have not seri­more changes are possible. ously considered that possibil-
Still Looking for a Course? 
The following Sociology courses are open for additional enrollment: 
Soc. 302, Research Methods Soc. 372, Religion in America Soc. 374, Irish in America Soc. 404, International Migration (1 credit) Soc. 418, Patriotism & National Ritual Soc. 420, Ethnicity in America Soc. 446, Family Problem Solving 
ity, although he said the three  face the same teams back to  
off-days give him more maneu­ Privately, the Twins admit to  back."  
verability, the paper said.  being very concerned with the  The possibility of the club  
state of their rotation, lament­ acquiring a starter from outside  
Tom Edens has made only  ing that Kevin Tapani and Jack  the organization can no longer  
one start since his promotion  Morris are the only dependable  be discounted, though lt will be  
from Class AAA Portland, West  starters, with Morris being  difficult for any player the  
has been erratic, and Anderson  highly susceptible to rough  Twins covet to slide through  
has made only one start for the  stretches, the Star Tribune re­ waivers.  
Twins in the past month, having  ported.  The Twins acknowledged  
spent four weeks in Portland.  trying to trade for Milwaukee's  
"I think we can expect mov­ Chris Boslo before the July 31  
ing the pitching around some,"  deadline for non-waiver deals.  
By the end of the week, the  general  manager  Andy  Bosio said over the weekend  
Twins  must  settle  on  their  MacPhail said. "With the excep­ that the Twins had made an­ 
postseason roster, which is ex­ tion of Tapani and Morris, I  other bid for him but that six  
pected to include nine and  think you can expect to see the  teams, including the Chicago  
probably 10 pitchers from the  starters switched around, partly  White Sox, blocked the potential  
current 11-man staff.  so that guys will not have to  deal with waiver claims.  
wh•yoabave  
Qtbe NewUork@times  
delivered on  
the day al ...blication  
at 272-5896. Fall Term


~­
Rates are .3()¢ dally. The Sunday paper is $3.00. Papers are dellvercd 
-
to dorms and faculty offices. For more lnfonnatlon call Greg K.letzly 
Course descriptions available in 
Mon.-Fri. $20.10
Sociology Department Office, 
Mon.-Sat. $23.40 
325 O'Shaughnessy. 
Mon.-Sun. $56.40 
-
Sunday Only $33.00 
Delivery for Fall tenn begins on Sat. 3, ends on Dec.l3. Subscription price does not Include delivery during school holidays or breaks. 

Observer File Photo With a defense anchored by senior linebacker Mark D'Onofrio, Penn State has hopes for a national championship season. 
~~--~---~-­
page 14 

-
-
-
-
Manley, released Monday, picked up by Sues as crunch time nears 
(AP)-Dexter Manley, cut by the Cardinals on Monday, was picked up by the Buccaneers. Tampa Bay also claimed ex-Jet defensive lineman Gerald Nichols, and former Viking cornerback Alzono Hampton. 
The Buccaneers also traded starting linebacker Ervin Randle to the Chiefs for a draft choice. 
Minnesota placed Keith Millard, the 1989 NFL Defensive player of the year, on injured reserve. 
"He's just not ready to play," coach Jerry Burns said. "He was disappointed, but he realizes that." 
MiUard, who'll miss at least four games, injured his knee in last year's fourth game and was out the rest of the season after undergoing reconstructive surgery. The defensive tackle played during the preseason but was a shadow of his former self. 
The Cardinals placed Eric Swann, their untested first­round draft choice, and another rookie on injured reserve and 
Real the follo'hing ex~ls from a1988 Unrversity Task Foroo., and compare them to the actions listed below... 
'JVORDS 
In 1988, Nolnl Dmne said: 
Evidence from many qual1eiS ndic:alas a widesaead hostiity direcled ilwards homosexual persons which is con ITaly il the Chri;tian natJre of the instilution...achwlge ci atJtud8 mu;t be txourjlt about, ~ ;mong oursllldlrliS...we mu;t ..tmgabout an envialnt61'1t which is suw;rive ofiL5 
~l'i. 

The l.kliwlsity should ft:rmulas Wid flltii&h a {Xiiq s/atem6nt which adctssse61he nB6d fa a1 ab1laiphere oftBance, tmpect ;nJ ooncisainilab! fa al~wilhout ff1!Jf'd t1 sexual aienlafoo. Itshoold rwde "sBXual aienlafoo"i1 ils txmaJ noncisainilalion polcy slatemen/s. 
The l.k!Natsity shoold broaden accass to cwnpus mooting fD;es Wid tl chamels fa {Ai1lic nolice ofmeetilgs fa msmtas oflls ~Ccrrrm.ri.-ila-95/Bd i1 disct.lssifv issiJ6s re/al9d b SBXua/it', i1ctJcfng hancMxuaity. 
'TaMil tanhTalk Face Cll ....... Fny and Olhe' IJI CcmmiM11s Repcrt,.b.nlln Noie !line Bgr!l. (Spedilllllue,Apl8, 19118). A~dlltrepcl1121be b.nlln lltlb.y. Emjlhalll added. 
ACTlONS 
In 1991, ~Dane: '(J)rDud1D IJ8YIIIt Esbiorl, gay ;rd bisexual &~~.dens hom f1111111i11 on~ oena::led gUdeinas " ~C8I'60I' ads ol the ~ed gay ;rd klsDan IJOlP 'COIOlued" deny empbyment" PJISOn& based on sexual oriertaion 


To help the students who have helped lesbians and gays at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for aver 7 years, write Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
reclaimed wide receivers Amod Field and John Jackson. 
Swann, the sixth player taken overall, and Greg Amsler, an eighth-round selection, were on the 4 7 -man Phoenix roster after the cutdown. They must remain on injured reserve at least four weeks, missing games against the Rams, Eagles and Redskins and the Sept. 22 home opener against the Cowboys. 
In addition to the other vet­erans reclaimed, the Redskins reactivated a half-dozen players including running back Gerald Riggs after putting a similar number on IR. 
And the Seahawks brought back wide receiver Paul Skansi and running back Darren Comeaux, who had been waived on Monday. 
The 49ers, meanwhile, re­claimed punter Ralf Mojsiejenko, guard Tom Neville and center Dean Caliguire. 
The Broncos, who placed wide receiver Vance Johnson among others on injured re­serve, reclaimed kick returner Kevin Clark. 


STORE HOURS 
NORTH 
STRTE LINE CRRPET 
·~LRND 
RUTEN 
D 
SRI NT 
MRRY'S 


BACKroSCHOOL 
SPECIAL!! 
DORM ROOM SIZE 
R NANTS! 
Keep your feet warm this winter! 
ALL REMNANTS 
50%= 
50760 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4500 
------~--------~-------------------------, 
The Observer 
VVednesda~August28, 1991 


Tech 
continued from p. 20 

9. 
Oklahoma. A good team last year, it should be interesting to see how Gary Gibbs handles this season. The Sooners must battle Nebraska and Colorado for Big Eight bragging rights, but Texas should prove the only other serious competition on their schedule. 


10. 
Colorado. For the Buffaloes' sakes, the world can only hope that head coach Bill McCartney learned a very valuable lesson by kicking to Notre Dame's Raghib "Rocket" Ismail in the closing minutes of the 1991 Orange Bowl. The Buffaloes are lucky that the Rocket did not blow their dream season to buffalo chips, but, seeing as Oklahoma and Nebraska are the toughest competition that the Buffs will face (no more Texas, Tennessee, or Washington), McCartney may just get another chance to make Colorado rue the day it gave him his 10-year contract. 


r-----------------------------------1;
I Additional 1 0°/o off i ! I with College I.D. ! I 
L--------------------------------~--~ 
Follow Douglas Road to: 

.....................,..........................._..JW..................................................... """ Iiiii.,_, 

VVednesday,August28, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Phillies' Dykstra out for season after breaking collarbone Monday -­
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) ­Lenny Dykstra's latest bout with misfortune has him trying to forget 1991. 
The Phillies' hard-charging center fielder is out for the sea­son after making a running catch Monday night at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium, then crashing into the wall and breaking his collarbone. 
It was the right collarbone, the same one broken in a May 6 car crash that seriously injured both Dykstra and teammate Darren Daulton. The collarbone wasn't fully healed when he returned six weeks ago. 
''I'm kind of hurting right now, but I can't do nothing about what's happened. All I can do is something about what's going to happen in the future," Dykstra said when he arrived Tuesday at Philadelphia International Airport. 
With his season over, Dykstra seemed ready to write if otT. 
''I'm looking forward to next year and getting ready to go," he said. "There was only a month left, anyway." 
Dykstra made a spectacular grab In the second inning Monday night after Chris Sabo hit a line drive to deep right center about two steps from the wall. 
llis right shoulder absorbed the blow as he slammed full speed into the outneld wall. 
"I just went for it as hard as I could, but the minute I hit the wall I knew I had messed it up," Dykstra told the Philadelphia Daily News. 
"A'l soon as I came in I went down the tunnel. I took a couple swings. You always think you're going to be all right. But I knew I wasn't going to be able to go. I knew it was broken," he told the paper. 
He was examined in Philadelphia by team physician Dr. Phillip Marone, who said the fracture was along the line of the previous fracture. 
"It's been four months-the weakest part is the area that fractured," Marone said. 
For Dykstra, the impact with the unforgiving wall was the final crunching blow in a season of controversy and pain, much of it stemming from an Intense approach to baseball and life. 
"He plays real hard. He gives up his body a lot," said Sabo, who hit the bases-loaded shot that Dykstra chased down. "He made the catch for the team and now he's probably done." 
In July, Marone had called it "a calculated risk" for Dykstra to return with the collarbone not fully healed, "as long as he understands and I think he un­derstands." 
Understands what? "That he can't run into walls, and dive into bases like he does," the doctor had said. 
"Lenny came back when 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Associate News Editor News Copy Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, August 30. 
Lenny and I felt he could come back," Marone said Tuesday. 
Manager Jim Fregosi, who ripped Cincinnati management for not padding its outfield walls, said in July that Dykstra "can only play one way." 
"Running into a fence, Lenny isn't worried about that," the manager had said. 
At the airport, Dykstra agreed with Fregosi and Marone. 
"Every place should have padding, but I can't use that as an excuse," he said. 
The Phillies were 25-11 since he returned July 15, including a 13-game winning streak. They were 24-37 without him. 
"Great catch, great play," shortstop Dickie Thon told the Daily News. "How are we going to be affected by this? We'll find out right away. But he's big. He's one of the best players in the league, so, sure, we're going to miss him." 
Dykstra finished his season with a .297 average, highest among Phillies regulars, a .390 on-base percentage and 24 stolen bases in 246 at-bats. 
"He's our leadoff guy; he plays great defense and he's going all-out," Ricky Jordan told The Philadelphia Inquirer. "It's tough to replace all that." 
Asked how his injury would affect the team, Dykstra talked around the question, but his answer was clear. 
"When I came back the club played real good," he said. "I think we've got a positive win­ning attitude that can carry over to next year." 
Controversy started in spring training when Dykstra admitted in court that he played high­stakes poker several years ago. He was placed on probation for a year by commissioner Fay Vincent. 
Then came May 6, when he drove his Meorcedes sports car into two trees in Radnor Township, breaking his collar­bone, cheekbone and three ribs. Daulton, the Phillies' catcher and Dykstra's passenger, frac­tured a bone near his eye. 
Dykstra's blood-alcohol count was 0.179 percent, police said, well above the legal limit of 0.10 percent. He still faces drunken-driving charges. 
Last week, a Florida news­paper reported that Dykstra had received three traffic tick­ets after nearly hitting a school crossing guard in 1988 and swearing at her. lie also got two speeding tickets in Mississippi in 1988 and 1990. 
Four National League stadi­ums don't have padded fences: Wrigley Field, Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, Candlestick Park and Riverfront. 
"The money they have tied up in players and their con­tracts and they don't do it," Fregosi fumed Monday night. "I'm not saying he wouldn't have busted it anyway if the wall was padded. But there's a good chance he wouldn't have." 
Dykstra agreed about the padding. 
MHow much would it cost?" he said. "No matter what, it would be worth it." 
Players hope injury brings padded walls 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Players want pads on the unforgiving outfield wall at Riverfront Stadium. They hope Lenny Dykstra's season-ending injury finally brings some action. 
The Phillies' center fielder broke his right collarbone Monday night when he ran full­speed into the wall after mak­ing an over-the-shoulder catch. Dykstra's teammates were an­gry, blaming the unpadded ply­wood wall. And Reds player" emnathized. 
"It takes one of the major stars to get hurt before they'll do it," outfielder Glenn Braggs said. "I'm surprised more guys aren't injured." 
There's agreement pads are needed. The only question is, who's going to buy them? 
Reds general manager Bob Quinn said Tuesday it would cost between $40,000 and $60,000 to pad the walls, which have been bare throughout the stadium's 21-year history. 
The city operates the sta­
dium and has been at odds with 
both the Reds and the NFL 
Bengals for years over im­
provements and upkeep. The 
teams contend it's the city's re­
sponsibility to perform such 
chores. 
Team president Marge Schott said Tuesday that she asked the city to install padding months ago, but it's been slow to act. 
Asked whether the Reds would consider buying padding for the walls, Schott said, "I think it's the city's stadium. Nobody's ever been hurt before. And I don't think padding ... I was thinking of that bubble stuIT, like they wrap stuIT in." 
Schott smiled, an indication she was joking. The players aren't in a mood to laugh. 
"Something should be done," Reds outfielder Eric Davis said. "There should come a point in time when you wake up and say, 'Hey, I've got to do something about it.' It's some­thing that should be considered, anyway." 
Dykstra's injury is one of the 
most notable at the stadium. 
Davis, who has sustained a 
variety of less-severe injuries, 
said he's lobbied Schott over the 
years, without result. 
"I've asked Marge several times to get the walls padded," Davis said. 
Most other major-league ballparks have padded outfield walls. Phillies player represen­tative Darren Daulton said he hopes Dykstra's injury results in changes in Cincinnati. 
"It'll be noticed. I don't think I'll have to say anything," Daulton said. "I think every­body will notice it. 
"With as much money as you've got roaming the outlields in this game, they should all be padded. Especially with what they've got roaming here, Eric Davis for one." 
-

BEACH PARTY! 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31 ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH (RAIN DATE SEPTEMBER 1) 
A GREAT SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
11:00 AM BIATHLON 
INDIVIDUAL AND 2 PERSON TEAMS SWIM 1/2 MILE RUN 2 MILES REGISTER AT REC SPORTS OFFICE IN ADVANCE VARSITY & "THE REST OF US" DIVISIONS 

·. 
---~·------------------------­
NOON BEACH VOLLEYBALL 
TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT REC SPORTS OFFICE 3 AND 6 PERSON TEAMS 



CANOEING PADDLE BOATS SCUBA DEMOS KAYAKING CLINIC SAILING AND ROWING DEMOS 
....,.
j \ NON.t1Aitl11r ATHlEriCI 
·~·..... 



page 16 The Observer VVednesda~August28, 1991 
Mackovic, lllini lose receiver Mueller to congenital health problem 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -No faced an increased risk with game in the Big Ten last season, one likely will miss wide re­football. This has been a terrific completing 64 percent of its ceiver Steven Mueller more disappointment for him passes for 2,698 yards and 17 than Illinois quarterback Jason personally and for our team." touchdowns. Verduzco. 
Mueller, a junior from "We've got to find a way to 
Mueller, who gave up foot­Valparaiso, Ind., underwent produce some pressure on ball for medical reasons, was tests after taking a hard hit in Verduzco," said East Carolina Verduzco's favorite pass target practice. But Mackovic said the coach Bill Lewis. "We've got to and his roommate. problem was congenital. keep him in the pocket ... con­
tain him ... limit the time he has 
"I knew what he was think­Mackovic said the loss of to throw the football." ing and where he'd go," Mueller, who caught 32 passes Verduzco said Tuesday. "It hurts for 496 yards last season, Mackovic said a key for when he's not going to be complicates preparation for Illinois will be stopping East there." Saturday's opening game Carolina's option-oriented of­
against East Carolina. fense, led by senior quarterback 
Coach John Mackovic told Jeff Blake. reporters, then Verduzco, that Mackovic said he would look Mueller had given up football to some young players to help "He can run the option or he on his doctor's advice. A spe­experienced wide receivers Gus can fake and drop back and cialist detected a narrowing in Palma, John Wright and Elbert throw the ball," said Mackovic. Mueller's spinal column. Turner. The loss of Mueller 
won't reduce the passing at­The Pirates rushed for 1,996 .......... "Football is a collision tack, Mackovic said. yards and passed for another sport," said Mackovic. "He Illinois had the No. 2 passing 1,605 in a 5-6 season in 1990. 
8o's ready to get to know the majors 
HOOVER, Ala. (AP) -Bo In the third, Jackson split time between the football Jackson's three-game minor grounded into a double play. Raiders and baseball Royals, league hitting streak was in After Monday night's game, was released by Kansas City peril after two at-bats Tuesday a 1-0 loss to Charlotte, Jackson after the severity of the hip night for the Birmingham said he was pleased with his condition was confirmed. Barons, although the larger is­hitting so far. sue of his preparation for a re­The White Sox picked him turn to the major leagues con­"I haven't seen a lot of up in April and he spent the tinued to be rosy. pitches since last year and I summer undergoing therapy 
Jackson, who had four hits made contact every time at the before going to Sarasota to be­in 10 at-bats in two games with plate except once," he said. gin a rehabilitation assignment. Class A Sarasota and in Monday 'Tm not trying to do any­"My No. 1 goal is to finish night's game with the AA thing spectacular. I'm just try­the season with the White Sox," Birmingham Barons, drew a ing to get my eye back on the Jackson said. ''I'm laying the walk in the first inning Tuesday ball." foundation for that." night against Charlotte. He Jackson is trying to complete Despite doubts in some subsequently scored ahead of a long comeback after injuring quarters, Jackson said he's sure Kevin Garner's home run, his hip in an NFL playoff game he'll be back in the majors with which snapped a 22-inning in January. The 1985 Heisman the White Sox. "Everything is Birmingham scoreless streak. Trophy winner at Auburn, who going fine." 
Toretta gets nod for 'Canes, backup 08 Fortay quits 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -A victory by Arkansas would Erickson, who is beginning his Memories of a year ago remain be a bigger upset than BYU's third season in Miami. "But our fresh for the Miami Hurricanes win last year. The Razorbacks guys have been able to focus as they prepare to open the are coming ofT a 3-8 season and and deal with what's at hand, season Saturday at Arkansas. are picked by many to finish in which is the game Saturday." 
In last season's opener, the Southwest Conference cellar One of Erickson's biggest Brigham Young upset then-No. in their last SWC season before concerns going into fall drills 1 Miami, 28-21. The loss prob­heading for the Southeastern was the offensive line. The ably cost the Hurricanes their Conference. Hurricanes have only two re­fourth national championship turning starters there, and both since 1983. "They had a bad year last have been switched to new 
"They know that for us to year," Erickson said. "This is positions. have a successful season, their opportunity to come out of "We're not exactly where we they've got to win that first the chute and beat a team that's would like to be" in the offen­game," coach Dennis Erickson ranked third in the country, get sive line, Erickson said. "We've said Tuesday. "They all know that tradition back and get made great strides since fall what happened last year, and things going in the right di­camp started. Until we play a they all remember what that rection." game, we won't know exactly plane ride back was like." The Hurricanes have been in where we're at." 
the news plenty this month, but Miami blasted Texas 46-3 in not because of the Arkansas 
Blake carried 118 times for 414 yards and completed 116 of 219 passes for 1,510 yards and 13 touchdowns. 
He will be joined in the backfield Saturday by senior fullback David Daniels, who led East Carolina in 1990 with 100 carries for 553 yards and five touchdowns. 
Tight end Luke Fisher, a se­nior, was the top receiver last season with "It will be a fast­paced offense we face," said Mackovic, whose 1990 team tied for the Big Ten champi­onship and ended the season 8­4. 
Illinois, rebuilding at fullback, will go with senior Kameno Bell, also a good re­ceiver out of the backfield. Junior Wagner Lester, the other top fullback, is recovering from a stress fracture in his foot. 
"It's been a long, long road," said Bell, a walk-on, 190-pound tailback when he came to Illinois in 1987. "I didn't see myself getting up to 220 pounds and being a full­back." 
But he said Mackovic told him that would be his best opportunity to play. And when Howard Griffith completed his eligibility in 1990, Bell got his chance. Bell now is listed at 5 feet 11 and 223 pounds. 
One of the key's to the East Carolina defense will be linebacker Robert Jones, a 6­foot-3, 234-pound senior. He led the Pirates in tackles in 1990 with 167 and had a fumble recovery and two interceptions. 
"He's quick to fill, so I know I'll have my work cut out for me," said Bell. "But I've been there before." 
Most sports television deals resulting in losses 
(AP)-In 16 months televi­mous sums in major sports sion spent $8.5 billion in a properties, and at the end of shopping spree for big sports the day, we had nothing to events. So what do fans get show for it," said Ken out of it? Schanzer, executive vice 
More junk sports, less to president of NBC Sports. "We see overall and bigger bills. owned no equity, and if those 
Almost every one of the re­properties deCided to go cent megabuck deals has re­somewhere else, our sulted in huge losses for the investment was gone." networks, and they're deter­Such was the case with mined not to let it happen baseball, which, after a 40­again. year association with NBC, 
"We can only hope that sold itself to CBS and ESPN 
reality will set in for two years ago. negotiations next time Another partial solution is around," said Dennis Lewin, selling time to independent senior vice president at ABC producers, who then assume 
Sports. "Last time around, the risk. In July, ABC sold 11 reality just wasn't there." time slots to Haycom, which 
The new reality means will produce college more inexpensive, made-for­basketball games for the TV sports, independent network. And last month, productions, pay-per-view former NBC executive and less sports on the air in producer Michael Weisman general. was named president of a 
NBC, for example, has new production company, added professional beach vol­Davis Sports Entertainment of leyball, celebrity golf and Los Angeles, to take three-on-three basketball to advantage of that trend. its programming. And the Instead of employing huge network has invested more production staffs of 30-50 than just time in those events. people, "the trend is hiring In an effort to exert more outside production control over the sports it companies, paying them a televises, NBC owns at least a fee, and eliminating a lot of part of all three events. big salaries and overhead," 
"We were investing enor-Weisman said. 


page 17

Wednesday, August 28, 1991 The Observer 
Georgi·a Tech faces 7th-ranked PSU in Kickoff Classic ­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -When Shawn Jones was a freshman at Georgia Tech, 200 people showed up for fan appreciation day and "half of them were players." This year, 3,000 fans mobbed the junior quarterback and his teammates. 
"It was amazing," Jones said. "It seemed like everyone wanted my autograph. I was signin posters, helmets, jerseys -you name it. I even signed a $20 bill for one guy." 
Tech's popularity has soared since it won a share of the national championship last season. The Yellow Jackets went 11-0-1, finished first in the coaches' poll and second to Colorado in the t AP writers' poll. 
:::~~~~ij;;J~:~]J~~~f}!gff.~~~;.~: 
i.,·.·.·.i··

cornerback Willie Clay said. "We want to prove .. 
them wrong." 
The eighth-ranked Yellow Jackets can make a strong case by beating No. 7 Penn State in Wednesday night's Kickoff Classic at Giants 
Stadium. Although it's the first game of a Ion '''" season, both sides know the outcome could have ~··
.. ·.··. . . a major impact on their season. "It's a chance for us to show that we can play with the best," Clay said Tuesday. "Every year, 
Penn State Is one of the top teams in the country. Observer File Photo "Once they get through the first series, they'll be We want to get to the same level, where we're in Nittany Lion quarterback Tony Sacca is one of 13 starters back for fine," Ross said. "They're all talented players." the Top 20 every year." Penn State, winners of nine straight games before bowing to FSU. Penn State has 13 starters back from last year's 
If it was up to Penn State coach Joe Paterno,L----:::----:-.---:::-.--;:";'~-:-:,.,.----:---.-;-;--:---;~-~:--:---'team, which won nine straight games after opening Tech wouldn't have gotten the opportunity to play the Southern Cal, BYU, Miami and Notre Dame. But with two losses. Senior quarterback Tony Sacca will Nittany Lions in the Kickoff Classic. Paterno let his players decide, and they overruled him. direct the offense, while the defense will be led by yet 
"I told them all the negative things about playing, another great group of Penn State linebackers. 
but I guess they didn't listen to me," he said. Sacca is already the fifth-leading passer in PennPaterno didn't want his team to start the season so Penn State had a negative experience the last time State history with 3,381 yards. 
early, especially with tough games later on against 
NL umpire Palermo making progress after shooting incident in July 
DALLAS (AP) -American Lnague umpire Steve Palermo, who was shot in the back last month while chasing four rob­bery suspecl'i, said Tuesday he is neither angry at his as­sailants nor sorry he got in their way. 
"I think my wife's got the anger. I don't have the anger," Palermo said at an emotional news conference at the Dallas Hehabilitalion Institute in his first public remarks since the 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editor 
For more information contact 
239-7471
Dannika 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Organizational meeting and Auditions 
7:00P.M. 
VVednesday,August28 VVashington Hall Mainstage 
All students interested in any 
July 7 shooting. 
"Those guys were in the wrong place at the wrong time," Palermo insisted, his voice cracking. "We weren't. They were." 
Crying, Palermo took a mo­ment to collect himself, then declared: 
''I'm going to walk again. Long before their punishment may be up. So who got the worst part of the deal?" 
The 41-year-old Palermo 
, 
',:.:,·'·.• \··.. \ 
, was able only to wiggle two toes on his right foot when he entered the rehabilitation insti­tute July 15, but now he is walking slowly with braces and forearm crutches. 

Dr. John Milani, medical di­rector of the institute's Spinal Cord Unit, said the prognosis is good for Palermo's continued recovery but added it was im­possible to tell to what extent Palermo will improve or if he would be able to return to work. 
But Palermo didn't mince words. "I will walk again," he said. "And I will umpire again. You can make book on it," 
Milani said Palermo, shot in the tip of the spinal cord, has paraparesis, a condition in which the spinal cord is injured to a point that causes difficulty in the use of the lower extremi­ties. 
Palermo worked as the third base umpire at a July 6 game in Arlington between the Angels and Rangers, and was eating dinner at Campisi's Egyptian Restaurant in Dallas when four people tried to rob waitresses outside the building. 
Palermo, an AL umpire since 1977, ran outside about 1:30 
a.m. along with former Southern Methodist defensive tackle Terence Mann and restaurant owner Corky Campisi when a bartender saw four men trying to rob two 
r--::::-----------------------Tao, photographers and televi-
Happy 21st Birthday, :~·~~~::,::~::~:.d:::k:: ::: 
•m EllI.s (#32) 
citedly at Tao, and exclaimed,
"You know, I just remembered
Jl 

something. You're not holding onto mel" 
liangle Drafting Supply 1021 North Main Street Mishawaka. Indiana 46645 
/SA 
ltl)'
(219) 2!18·2459

~ 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F SAM-5:30PM SAT 9 AM-NOON 


waitresses near the restaurant. 
"He just said two of the girls are getting beat up out there," Palermo said. 'They're getting robbed. And we just sprung out of there. 
Palermo and Mann chased the would-be robbers and caught one. The three others fled, then returned and one of them shot Palermo and Mann, police said. 
Mann, who was shot in the chin, right arm and stomach, was released after being hospi­talized for several days. 
The four suspects, including a juvenile, were captured and the alleged triggerman was charged with two counts of at­tempted capital murder. Their trials are pending. 
Palermo said he has had no second thoughts about being a good Samaritan. 
"As far as doing anything differently, the league president asked me that once when I messed up a play and I thought I had gotten It right," Palermo recounted. "And then all these replays showed I had gotten It wrong. 
"But prior to me seeing the replays, he said, 'Would you have done anything differently?' I said no. 
"He said, 'Well, you would have screwed it up twice then.' And I guess I'd of screwed this up twice, too. Because I'd have it played in the KickoiT Classic. Nebraska routed the Lions 44-6 in the inaugural game in 1983. 
"We got killed," Paterno said. "I don't think anybody ever played better against us than Nebraska did that day. They were just a much better team than we were." 
Paterno is 4-0 against Tech coach Bobby Ross, but those victories came when Ross was at Maryland and all of them were close games. 
'The only time I've ever beaten Joe Paterno was in the coin flip before the game," Ross said. 
Nobody has beaten Ross since Duke downed Tech 30-19 on Oct. 28, 1989. The Yellow Jackets enter the season with a 16-game unbeaten streak, longest in the nation. The only blemish was a 13-13 tie with North Carolina midway through last season. 
"We don't dwell on the streak," tight end Tom Covington said. "All we care about is working hard and playing up to our potential." 
The Yellows Jackets have plenty of potential with an offense led by Jones and a veteran defense anchored by All-American safety Ken Swilling. But injuries and suspensions have left them with virtually no experience at running back. Starting tailback Jimy Lincoln and Tech's top two fullbacks, David Hendrix and Michael Smith, are redshirt freshmen who have never played a down in college. 
done the same thing." 
Palermo thanked all the well-wishers who have sent him cards and flowers, joking that the Seattle Mariners, who sent the biggest bouquet, "are going to be about 30 games above .500 next year." 
He also said the first thing he'll do when he returns to his home in Kansas City is to "walk 18 holes at Wolf Creek." 
"And I'll let him," responded his wife, Debbie. 
Palermo said he was taking his recovery day-to-day but longs for his return to the baseball diamond, whenever that may be. 
'That's what I keep on ask­ing Dr. Milani and he won't give me an answer," Palermo said. "It's going to take time. 
"And I don't know how much time. But that's what I got a lot of right now ... and hopefully I've got all the eiTort." 
Palermo also downplayed notions that he was a hero. 
"I don't consider us heroes. Our folks are heroes," he said. "Look at how we reacted. Obviously, we must have had some kind of upbringing that allowed us to ... go bolting through the door after those guys." 
After the news conference, Palermo strapped on the braces and walked about 140 feet with his physical therapist Gwen 
..


follow the meeting. 
The Observer VVednesday,August28, 1991
page 18 

-SPORlS BRIEFS Player calls for the removal of Ohio State's Cooper; 
•Football 
ticket sales will begin Thursday at 9 a.m. with the Senior Class. Sales will run until 6 p.m. Students are reminded to bring their application, student 1.0. and remittance to Gate 10 of the JACC. A maximum of four applications and J.D.'s are to be brought by one individual. A chart showing all sales dates appears on today's back page. 

•Attention 
Observer Sports Writers: Leave your new campus addresses and phone numbers in the Sports Department mailbox at the Observer by noon on Wednesday if you intend to write this year. Please include your top three choices for beat assignments. All editorial staff and returning writers must attend a meeting at 6:00 p.m. Thursday, and should report to the Observer as early as possible. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rugby Football Club has practice every Monday thru Thursday at 4:15p.m. at Stepan Field starting today. For anyone wishing to join the club, there will be an informational meeting at 5:30 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium next Monday, September 2, or just come to a practice. All are welcome. Pads not 


necessary. 

•Mandatory lacrosse meeting for anyone interested in playing for the varsity squad Monday, September 2 at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Any questions, call Kevin Corrigan at 239-5108. 
•A meeting will be held for all new sports writers Thursday at 
6:00 p.m. on the third floor of LaFortune at the Observer. Anyone interested in writing is welcome to attend. 
•All 
wrestlers and anyone interested in wrestling should attend a meeting on Tuesday, September 3, at 4:00 p.m. at the ACC. 

•Off 
campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rowing Club begins its 1991 season with an officers meeting this Thursday at 4:00 p.m. in the LaFortune basement. The frrst general meeting for all returning rowers and experienced transfer students will be held Monday at 7:00 p.m. in Nieuwland on the lower floor. All should attend, bring copies of insurance forms. 


tells paper he was forced to miss classes to practice 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Ohio State coach John Cooper and Robert Smith met Tuesday morning but were unable to iron out major differences that prevent the tailback from re­turning to the team. 
"We had a good meeting, but nothing is changed regarding Robert's status with this football team," Cooper said after the team's morning practice session at the Woody Hayes Athletic Center. "Robert is getting ready to take a final exam in chemistry and our football team is getting ready to play a game." 
Smith, who rushed for the 16th highest regular-season rushing total by a freshman in NCAA history in 1990, quit the team Friday. Citing a disregard for players' safety and aca­demics by the staff, he called for the removal of Cooper and assistant head coach and of­fensive coordinator Elliot Uzelac. 
Smith, who did not return a telephone message Tuesday, met with Ohio State athletic di­rector Jim Jones on Monday morning. 
"He has a perception about certain things in our program," Jones said Tuesday. "To him, they're real, whether we think they're real or not." 
In a story in The (Cleveland) Plain Dealer Monday, Smith said he was ordered to miss academic classes so he could attend football practices and meetings. 
"Coach Uzelac directly told me that I took my classes too seriously," Smith was quoted by the newspaper. "That is a direct quote from him." 
Cooper has denied that any of his coaches have ever in­structed a player to miss a class. 
After a practice on Monday, Cooper said, "According to our coaches, they never told any young man not to study. Period. We've never done that. Any comment ever made about that -and I doubt if it was ever made -wasn't made in a seri­ous tone." 
But Jones said it is possible that such a comment could have been construed to be seri­ous by Smith. 
"You and I can stand and 
hear some remark and one of 
us will laugh and the other 
takes offense at it," Jones said. 
"But the fact of the matter is, 
the person who laughs is not 
wrong, nor is the person who takes offense. We all interpret what we hear." 
Asked if disagreement over the alleged "taking class too seriously" statement was a bone of contention between Smith and the coaches, Jones said, "I don't know. It could be. One man's cup of tea is another man's cup of poison.... I as­sume that could be a bone of contention between the two of them." 
Cooper said he would not disclose anything discussed during his meeting with Smith, sayin.~ it was "strictly per­sonal. 
But he did defend Uzelac, in his first year at Ohio State after spending last season as an unpaid volunteer assistant coach at Indiana. 
''I'm fed up and sick and tired of the shots Elliot Uzelac is taking," Cooper said. "Elliot and I are on the same page re­garding academics, discipline, toughness and hard-nosed football. He's teaching the kind of football that I love, that I played, that I taught myself." 
After the morning practice, 
Cooper said that all workouts 
would be closed to the media 
and that all players were off­
limits to the media. 

Soviets lead U.S. midway through Track and Field Championships 
TOKYO (AP) -The political turmoil at home hasn't slowed the parade of Soviet athletes to the medals stand at the World Track and Field Championships. 
The Soviets, who arrived in the midst of unprecedented upheaval in their country, have taken a commanding lead in the medals race halfway through the competition. 
Many had counted out the Soviet Union as a leading track power because of its domestic problems. The Soviets' me­diocre showing at the 1990 European Championships in Yugoslavia had been considered the initial signs of a decline. 
But 14 medals, including four golds, in four days have given the Soviet Union a margin of five over the second-place United States, which also has four golds. The Soviets also had twice as many medals as the unified German team. 
"Our athletes have been able to train properly this year de­spite many problems. This proves their dedication to the sport and their professional approach," said former Soviet star Igor Ter-Ovanesyan, now chairman of the national track federation. 
The medals have come from a mixture of veteran talent and a new generation of stars. 
At 36, Yuri Sedykh was one of the oldest competitors in the championships. But the world record-holder and Olympic champion was still No. 1 in the hammer throw, which he domi­nated for the Soviet team's only men's gold so far. 
The women provided a gold on opening day in the walk and two more with their middle-dis­tance runners. 
Alina Ivanova, at 22 a rising star in the event, had a strong fmish to take the 10-kilometer walk on Saturday. 
Lilia Nurutdinova upset 
heavy favorite Ana Quirot of Cuba for a gold in the 800 me­ters and two-time world and Olympic champion Tatyana Dorovskikh, making a come­back after her marriage and a child, won the 3,000. 
With some of the team's big guns yet to perform, including pole vaulter Sergei Bubka, the Soviet Union has a good chance of staying on top of the medals table throughout the champi­onships. 

booklets back. We will be able to trace tickets from a seat to a
Tickets 

name, and names can be given continued from p. 20 to the Office of Student Affairs 
in cases of unruly behavior or Those purchasing tickets are in ticket scalping." for a shock, as this year's To gain admittance to games, 
tickets will no longer be sold on students will be required to perforated sheets, but rather in present their 1.0. cards as well booklets. The change in format as their entire ticket booklet, is intended not only to reduce without which entry to games illicit sales of student tickets, will be denied. Tickets which but also to provide security with have been removed from their better means of control over booklets will be considered in-rowdy behavior. valid. "The booklet will be about the Changes have also been insti­size of the plastic 1.0. holders," tuted in the way married stu­said Cunningham. "It will con-dents apply for tickets. tain tickets to all six games, but "On the back of the application the tickets ·themselves are not there is a paragraph stating the printed with the student's seat intended use of married student location, which appears on the tickets, and the applying cover of the booklet. student is supposed to sign that. "The old student tickets con-If a student is in fact mis­fused many alumni and friends representing himself as not who though that they were married, his name will be given buying legitimate tickets. Also, I to Student Affairs. This is a think that students will be less special situation, and notes likely to sell their tickets be-have been provided to the mar­
cause they may not..J.:e~t~tUh!!e~i!"--r_.,;~~~~Q;~Q;~QI:"IQQI;~ 
is looking for•.• £© ©~®~®~~~® 
1 f you are a creatiue person interested in aduertising, then this job is for youl 
For more information call Alissa at 284-5319. 
ried students." Section 29. Activities Committee. All gen­While students have already "You can't pick and choose your eral admission tickets for home been observed camping outside seating situation, so some games have been sold, but GA's the ticket office, Cunningham people may be dissatisfied with remain for road contests at cautions that sleeping out may their seats. Every student who Purdue and Stanford. not necessarily translate into wants a seat will get one, and General admission tickets may seats on the 50-yard line. all the students of a particular be charged to either "It's important to know that class year will be in relatively MasterCard or Visa, although getting out there early does not the same area." student season tickets may only guarantee that your seat will be Finally, a minimum of 200 be paid for by check or cash. what you expect it to be," student tickets will be available The cost for Purdue GA's is $18, warned Cunningham. "We fill at the JACC ticket office for while Stanford GA's cost $22. sections from the bottom to the road games against Michigan Students may purchase up to top, so you may be in Row 60 of and Purdue. Lotteries will be six (6) GA's apiece for either Section 28 instead of Row 1 of conducted by the Student game. 
~~~~'='.L...:.-(/.~7~~--~,..-.....~,...-~&..-~~ 
DORMITORY ~ REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: (starting at) 
$ 4 5 

2.5 CUBIC fEET 
for the school year
3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 
PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. (corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
• 
~~ -------------------~ -----~-------------------------~ --------------~ 
VVednesday,August26, 1991 The Observer page 19 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Welcome Back Picnic, Stepan Field 
Homestyle Chicken Sandwich Smoked Thuringer Hamburgers 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlets 
Beef Stew 
Vegatarian Chili 
Deli Bar 
S.P.I.N. JOHN MONKS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Indian tourist mecca 5 Minutes of a meeting 9 Tried for office 12 A custard dessert: Sp. 13 Gambling-hall cry 15 Dorothy Gale's 
dog 16 Lowest level 18 Grayish brown 19 Tune 20 Baking dish 22 Look at 23 Getting along 24 Sulkies 
27 Before: Prefix 28 Ground grain 30 Disney's 

inventive mouse 31 Pod inhabitant 32Wheel man 34 Dry, as wine 35 Fatty 37 ~~ volente 
38 Turkish capital 40 Suffix with social 41 Prefix with cycle 
or ton 42 Fla. county 43 O'Neill work 44Goof 45 "~~,Satan!" 47 A Mascagni 
opera, for short 48 Help for a troubled S.&L. 50 Stipend 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:=-t=:+--:+=-i 10 Longfellow's bell town 11 Speech part 14 Tentmaking poet H.,:.,+::-fllllll!-:::+=-88.::+=-~"t-::-t-=-t.,...,..+:,"ct 15 Adolescent ~-"-'+"-+"+-'-looiiio -=+-:+.=+::+7+:':-liillllt"::+=+::::'-1 17 They wiII be themselves 21 Acted without words 23 Package stamp 
~-:+=+~ 24 Senor's home -=+=+=-+::~ 25 Improve __,___.___.__, 26 Hybrid music 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

53 Jamaican citrus fruit 54 Stern; unyielding 57 Sort papers 58 Symbol of slowness 59 Floor covering, for short &O Vaudevillian Eddie &1 Sicilian spouter &2 Basic Latin verb 
DOWN 
1 Eur. neighbor 2 Steal: Slang 3 Ethnic group 4 Some socks 5 Dwelling 6 Eugene or Gary 7 Explosive a Greek 
marketplaces 9 Certain flowering layout 
27Write 44 South Pacific 49 Premium on ­
29 Loyal subject island exchange 50 Peel
46 Cather's "One 31 Actress Zadora 51 Batters' slats. 
of-"
32 Appropriate 52 Urges47 Perlman role on

33 Emulate a lark 55 Singer Stevens 
"Cheers" 
from London 48 Shine 56 Female deer 35 Response to 
"Grazie!" 36 Exploit 39 Type of penguin 

Answers to any three clues in this 
41 Kind of church 

puzzle are available by touch-tone 
feast 

phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 43 Chant minute). 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


• 

--Sports 
page 20 VVednesday,August28, 1991 
Irish women's tennis making presence felt on national level 
By RICH SZABO ment play, and the team will be initely can play with them." Sports Writer hosting the Irish Invitational in This year's Irish team is very early October, competing deep once again, with only the 
After achieving a first-ever against teams such as departure of last year's captain, 
national ranking and sending Kentucky, Illinois, Ohio State, Kim Pacella, to compensate for. 
two players to the NCAA tour­and Purdue. The Brown "Kim will really be missed," 
nament, the Notre Dame Invitational follows, with said Louderback. "She was a 
women's tennis team is not Princeton, Yale, Brown, and hard worker and a great ex­
about to become complacent. Tennessee expected to partici­ample. Laura Schwab is com­
The Irish return all but one pate. After hosting the ing in ranked high, though, so player from last year's team Midwest Collegiate Conference she will be a big help on the which finished the regular sea­Championships, and competing court." son ranked 25th in the country in the Rolex Regionals, the Irish "College tennis will be so dif­and sent singles players Tracy will finish the fall with a dual ferent. The competition is Barton and Melissa Harris to match against Tennessee, a much stiffer, plus I'm the only the NCAA's. This taste of na­team that fmished 13th in the freshman," said Schwab, the tional success has them reach­country last year. team's lone freshman. "It's a big ing for new heights. transition, but I'm really excited 
After last year's national ex­to be here. This program is "Last year was a new situa­posure, the Irish will be ready getting stronger every year and tion for us," said coach Jay to contend with the pressures of Jay is doing a great job." 
-
Louderback, "and that experi­facing the top-caliber teams. ence should make things easier "The team is definitely more Louderback has indeed for this year. I think the players experienced this year, and brought this program up to a expect to be in the top 25, and making the tournament is still higher level. Women's tennis we will be better as a team, so our main goal," said junior has only been a Division I pro­we may move up in the Melissa Harris. "Last year, gram at Notre Dame since the rankings." losing close matches to some of 1985-86 season, and 
"We came extremely close to the good teams helped us, and Louderback has given the team making the NCAA tournament we feel that we can compete national exposure in his first as a team last year," continued with anyone. two years here. He has given Louderback. "And this year ev­his players the chance to gain 1989-90, the Irish went 16-9 This year's Irish team is eryone will believe that we have Senior captain Tracy Barton experience by scheduling some last year against a much loaded with talent. Havin,g a solid shot at it. The more we agreed, citing that, "Last year, of the top teams in the country. tougher schedule, one that tested the waters of top-25 think we can do something, the we were excited to be ranked, included 12 ranked teams. competition last season, the quicker it will happen." but hopefully we will go even The Irish have been Louderback's efforts have pro­Irish will be looking forward to 
further this year. I'm looking developing into a national duced strong recruiting and will bigger and better things in The fall season consists forward to playing some of the power the last two years. undoubtedly continue to do so 1991-92, and have the potential m::tinlv of invit->•in... -1 tnurna-big name teams again. We dPf-Followinu " 17-K '""""'n in in the comin~ years. to achieve even more success. 

Season opener brings out yet another prediction: this time it's Tech 
As college football addicts Dame defense is woefully Edgar Bennett are tough, as is granted, but the Longhorns across North America gear up under-rated (with justification, the offensive line, but it should dump the conference for the Kickoff and Pigskin 
after the loss of George remains to be seen whether NFL expansion candidate Classics, the time is ripe for a Williams), its hard-hitting ways head coach Bobby Bowden can (Houston) en route to a pre-season peek at those will not go unfelt for long. put all the pieces together. winning season. Most of the de­twenty teams who (supposedly) fense returns from last season, have the best claims on the 3. Michigan. It will take 5. Washington. Last season's and the few existing gaps have still-mythical national great feats for the Maize and unimpressive choking against been filled by heavy-hitting championship. Gold to escape the Big Ten UCLA plus the loss of 'Horns. A potentially explosive 
undefeated, let alone escape quarterback Mark Brunell offense doesn't hurt, either. 
If the title doesn't seem their building jinx with Notre yields an iffy outlook for the The grueling SWC schedule, mythical to you, ask Bobby Dame. Quarterback Elvis Grbac Huskies. Billy Joe Hobert, the however, just might hook the Ross and his Georgia Tech must live up to his potential, new QB, is supposedly a sight 'Horns in the end. 
Dave Dieteman 
Yellow Jackets for their rings. and tailback Ricky Powers to see, but the mighty PAC-10 This year's Top Ten teams are Sports Editor must do the same if the and Nebraska promise to put 8. Miami. Like every other as follows. Wolverines offense is to avoid Washington to the test. contending team, the 
mediocrity. Still, the Wolverines Hurricanes have lost their2. Notre Dame. An under­
1. Georgia Tech. Stop will be sitting pretty if they 6. Penn State. A tough share of talent from last year's 
rated team, largely because of
laughing. The Ramblin' Wreck sneak past either Florida State defense should be expected of squad, but, as usual, they
the tremendous number of
returns quarterback Shawn or the Irish. Joe Paterno and the Nittany promise to fill the gaps with
questions which surround the
Jones, four potent wide Lions, but what about the budding superstars. Last year's 
Irish starting lineup.
receivers and eight starters on 4. Florida State. The offense? Quarterback Tony Cotton Bowl performance
Quarterback Rick Mirer has
a tough defense, including All­Seminoles don't have the Sacca may be ready for prime­should ensure that they are as
another year and two painful
America strong safety Ken toughest schedule in the time, but is anybody else on his hate-able as ever, but their on­
losses (Stanford and Penn
Swilling. Add in a conference nation, but it won't be easy to side of the ball? A difficult field antics this year may earn
State) under his belt, as do all
schedule that's easier than get by Brigham Young (in the schedule (Georgia Tech, them a national championship.
the other returnees. Oft­
Michigan's and Washington's Kickoff Classic), or Michigan, Southern Cal, BYU, Miami, and A still-mushy schedule features 
overlooked tight end Derek
(and independents Florida LSU and Louisville (all three on Notre Dame to name a few) Houston, Penn State, Florida
Brown should play a big part in
State and Notre Dame) and the road), and season-closing should make or break the State and Arkansas. 
what is shaping up as a
you've got a potential winner. contests against Miami (at FSU) season for Penn State. 
surprisingly potent offense.
Clemson looks to be their lone and Florida (at Florida). Sure, see Tech, p. 14
Finally, although the Notre
opposition in the ACC. running backs Amp Lee and 7. Texas. A surprise team, 
" 
i i 
~ 
I 
I i 
FOOTBALL TICKET SALE INFORMATION 
Seniors: Thur., Aug. 29 
Juniors: Fri., Aug. 30 
Law/Grad Students: Sat., Aug. 31 
Sophomores: Mon., Sept. 2 
Freshmen: Tues., Sept. 3 

ND football ticket sales begin tomorrow for seniors 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 

Distribution of Notre Dame student football tickets is scheduled to begin Thursday, August 29 from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Gate 10 of the JACC. 
Students are advised to bring their I.D. cards, ticket applica­tions and remittance (cash or check) to the JACC. Students will be allowed to carry a maximum of four I.D.'s and four applications each. 
The remainder of the tickets will be distributed as follows: Juniors, Friday, August 30; Law/Grad Students, Saturday, August 31; Sophomores, Monday, September 2; Freshmen, Tuesday, September 3. 
Unfortunately, most off-cam­pus students have not yet re­ceived their ticket applications. Students who have not received their applications as of today are advised by Notre Dame Ticket Manager Bubba Cunningham to come to the JACC ticket office. 
"A lot of times were not sure if a student is living off-campus in South Bend or if we have their home address, so we have to wait to mail the applications out," stated Cunningham. "We don't want to mail the applica­tions to their houses and miss them. We have a list from the Registrar that we go by, but students should call the ticket office if they don't receive their applications." 
see Tickets, p. 18 




