~........~......................................~--~----~--------------------.---..~------------~-------------~ ~..­
, 
!. 



··~2·1992 
Sf SQUICEN1ENNIAl 
VOL. XXIV NO. 5 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lawmakers suspend Communist Party 
MOSCOW (AP) -Soviet law­makers dealt a potential death blow Thursday to the Commu­
• Bush, Major talks/ page 8 

nist Party, suspending the crip­pled and discredited organiza­• Western aid/ page 8 tion and freezing its bank ac­counts because of the party's leading role in last week's coup. 
on the radio to calm the people.
In Kazakhstan, there were 
"I want to firmly assure yourallies and protests amid fears that the collapse of the center isthat the Russian Federation, led not the collapse of the country,

by an increasingly powerful 

moreover of Russia," he said onBoris Yeltsin, could try to seize Radio Rossiya. 
parts of the Central Asian re­Yeltsin welcomed the destruc­public's territory where most of tion of "that powerful, bureau­the inhabitants are ethnic Rus­cratic system which has for sixsians. 

years stood in the path of
Amid concern about who con­

transformations" during Gor­
trols the many nuclear weapons bachev's rule. 

in Kazakhstan, the republic's Capping nearly a week of at­
president shut down its huge 

tacks on the Communist Party
Semipalatinsk testing range. 

for its role in the coup, thePresident Mikhail Gorbachev 
Supreme Soviet legislature
sent a delegation to Kazakhstan 

halted party activity nation­
to keep things from 

wide. 
..snowballing." 
The step -taken near th.e
Ten dizzying days after the end of three days of marathon announcement of the coup that debates -was part of changeshastened the demise of the cen­

see Soviet/ page 8
tral government, Yeltsin went 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, 1991 

Law school adds doctor of juridicial science program 
By MEREDITH dents will come with eight years Notre Dame Law School into the Soviet Parliament taught J .S.D. candidates," said Lewers. McCULLOUGH of university experience rather ranks of other highly acclaimed University classes in Students in the program face News Writer than six~" he said. "The usual law schools such as Harvard, comparative constitutional law, a one-year residency require­candidate will have an under­Yale , Virginia, Columbia, specifically between the United ment, during which they will graduate degree, a professional Pennsylvania and about 10 States and the Soviet Union. develop dissertation outlines
A doctor of juridical science law degree (J.D.) an'd a LL.M. others who offer this prestigious Dean Jorge Correo, faculty of and participate in course work(J.S.D.) program which leads to (master of laws degree)." degree. According to Lewers an law at Diego Portales University as students or teachers, Lewersthe most advanced degree in institution cannot claim to be a in Santiago, Chile, and Ignatius explained.

the field of law has been added The program, which-Lewers top research law school without Walker, council to the president Students will have a maxi­to the Notre Dame Law School, sees as "primarily for those in­this program. of Chile will join the teaching mum of five years to completeaccording to Father William terested in an academic ca­While ND currently ranks staff in the spring. the program, which includes Lewers, professor of law and 

reer," will focus on human among the top 25 law schools in The J.S.D. program will in­approximately two years for director of the newly introduced rights law. the country, Lewers said, the clude only two or three students writing their dissertation. program. With Notre Dame's facilities in arrival of the J.S.D. "represents at any one time, according to Lewers expects one student, a 
"This is a research degree the CCHR and the law school a continuing development in the Lewers. Notre Dame graduate, to begin parallel to the Ph. D.," ex­already offering a master of growth of the law school." Seven students are currently work on the degree this fall. plained Lewers, who is also the laws in this field, Lewers con­"This program will enhance involved in the University's The J.S.D. program was ap­director of the law school's siders the initiation of the our ability to attract senior and master of laws in international proved by the University's Aca­Center for Civil and Human J.S.D. a "natural development visiting faculty," he said. human rights law. demic Council and has appliedRights (CCHR). to go one additional step." This past year, Igor Grazin, an "It's from a pool like that that for approval from the United 
"The difference is that stu-Such a step has brought the elected member of the Supreme you would draw one or two States Bar Association. 
Attacks mar students' return to campus 
By SANDY WIEGAND said. Summers said he could News. Writer not provide additional informa­tion until he spoke with superi­
A sudden increase in assaullc; • ND security/ page 5 ors. and robberies traditionally ac­"Our suspicion is that several companies the return of Notre different factions are fighting Dame and Saint Mary's students for crack distribution through­to campus, said Doug Way, said. out the South Bend area," Way director of Crime Prevention at Another tactic criminals use is said. the South Bend Police preying on inebriated students, Way said the first football Department. because they know the victims weekend is when students be­
Notre Dame students, who come primary targets of rob­
will not be able to articulate are primarily brought up in well to police, and because their beries, since there are so many middle-class neighborhoods, intoxication will be noted on students walking around the 
often do not take the precau­police reports, Way said. city, to off-campus parties and tions necessary to avoid being Crack has hit the streets of bars. victims. South Bend in increasing Students should not be afraid Street-smart attackers know to knock on a door and ask a
amounts this summer, he said, 
to prey on students, Way said, and there has been "a rash of resident to call the police, he since they are unsuspecting, drug-related crimes," including said, especially if being fol­often inebriated and, most im­drive-by shootings, especially lowed. Attackers often follow 
portantly, they seldom prose­on the west side of town. lone students until they catch cute. Lt. Ed Summers, a South up with them, he said, and "a Way told a story of a man who Bend narcotics officer, con­block away from a bar in any 
attacked a Notre Dame senior, firmed this report, but refused direction" is prime mugging then had the trial date moved to to comment whether drug-re­territory. summer, when it was lated crimes have been promi­Off-campus students often 
inconvenient for the student to nent in areas that have com­make the dangerous mistake of travel across the country to monly been used for ofT-campus letting neighborhood kids into pursue the charges. student housing. their apartments for parties, 
The assailant, who later shot Patrols have been increased Way said, adding, "That's taboo I a man, passed his knowledge in the Notre Dame area sinceI on to other local criminals, Way students returned, though, he see Attacks/ page 5
,, 
! .· 
' 


FORECAST: Mostly cloudy and not as warm today with a 40 percent chance of thunder­storms. Highs in the middle 80s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Use your head and be careful 
It's the first official weekend of the school year. The time is right for party-and bar­hopping, making the rounds of all the social 
events before the weather ------­takes a turn for the worse. 
Unfortunately, the time is also right for some less­fesotive activities, like 

muggings and robberies. And before you know it, something other than the weather might be taking a Monica Yant turn for the worse. News Editor 
You see, you're back in ------­So.uth Bend. You've been gone for the summer, and frankly you missed out on what appears to be a worsening crime situation. 
While you were gone, you missed crack cocaine and its undesirable friends increasing their presence in the area. You missed some gang warfare, with drive-by shootings. 
You missed out on the transformation of a nearby apartment complex into a rent-by-the­week-to-the-kind-of-people-making-quick­exits-from-town facility. It used to house students. It's not safe anymore. 
But you're back now. You couldn't possibly have missed the story about the NO student who was attacked in front of his ofT-campus residence less than 24 hours after arriving in town. 
Or the rumors that have circulated about ofT-campus parties being disrupted by unin­vited guests with weapons and attitudes deadlier than most of you have ever encoun­tered. They've been spotted all over town, from Notre Dame Ave. to St. Louis St. and everywhere in between. 
You want to go out, but you want to come back alive. What can you do? For starters, don't be stupid. Going off­campus alone is insane, as is even dreaming about walking somewhere. If you don't have a car, take a cab. Everywhere. 
Know where you're going, because one wrong turn could put you in a dangerous dead-end. If you're looking for a party, try not to drive so slow that somebody's grandmother could jump the car. And for God's sake, keep your doors locked. 
Once you get to your destination, make sure it's safe to stay. If you're going to the bars, don't overestimate yourself. Alcohol does funny things to one's reasoning. Don't let it destroy it. 
The walk between Club 23 and the Com­mons that used to be "doable" at a fast pace is simply ludicrous now. Don't even think about it. 
But what if you follow all the rules and still rmd yourself in an uncompromising position with some of South Bend's finest gang members? 
Don't get cocky or smart. Chances are, your intellect won't get you anywhere, except maybe in the hospital. The best thing you can do is to remain calm and get out alive. You may lose a watch, but it's better than your life. 
Warnings aside, the situation may get worse before better. All it will take is one over-zealous addict with a gun at a large party before all hell breaks lose. Be careful out there, and maybe it won't. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Accent Frank Rivera Shonda Wilson Paul Pearson Meredith McCullough Ann M. Hartman Cristina Ortiz Alicia Reale Illustrations 
Production Jake Frost 

Cristina Ortiz Sports Jeanne Blasi Rolando DeA Lab Tech Scoreboard Macy Hueckel Dave McMahon 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. AH reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday,August30, 1991
The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Libyan pipe will carry water to farms BENGHAZI, Libya -With fireworks and pounding music, Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi opened the spigot on a $5 billion pipeline carrying water from under the Sahara to coastal farmland. But critics say the Great Man-Made River doesn't make economic sense and that it is not certain how long the Saharan aquifier will last. The project is also aimed at replacing coastal aquifiers that are drawn down and becoming saline. At a ceremony Wednesday night, Gadhafi stood triumphantly on a platform as the first water from the river gushed below him and cascaded into a gigantic empty reservoir. "The small, poor, backward, illiterate people of Libya made the river without any loans or help from America with all its strength and wealth," Gadhafi boasted in a rambling, 45-minute, fiercely anti-American speech. "After this achievement, the U.S. threats against Libya will double. They will make excuses but the real reason is to stop this achievement and keep the people of Libya oppressed. Wait and see." 
NATIONAL 

Koop: AIDS risk from doctor is slight WASHINGTON -Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop said Thursday the public is "concerned and confused" about the AIDS hazard, even though there is "essentially no risk" of getting it from a doctor. Officials of the American Medical Association, the Centers for Disease Control and the Society for Hospital Epi­demiology of America joined Koop in arguing against mandatory testing of physicians or other stringent measures. "I have found that the public is both con-
OF INTEREST 
•Jazz 
band auditions will be held on Sunday, September 1 in the Koons Band Building at 1 p.m .. 

•Auditions 
for Cabscene production of Sam Shepard's .. The Tooth of Crime," will be held tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Upper Lab Theater, Washington Hall. Call Jason Winslade at 287-8625 for details. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/August 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 150.21 Million 216.90 v .27 COMPOSITE 395.81 .. 0.80 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,049.64 • 5.59 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {J. $ .50 to $353.90/oz. 
Sll.VER f. 1.2¢ to $3.92/oz. 


City 
Athens Atlanta Bertin Boston Chicago DaUas·Ft. Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miarri Beach Moscow 
New Orleans 
New York 
Paris 
Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C 
H L 
B8 68 88 73 
70 50 
81 71 92 73 91 74 
86 56 
91 73 87 73 
96 72 69 69 73 55 82 62 97 68 86 73 
55 41 
91 71 92 75 82 57 98 75 91 72 89 74 73 57 
12 75 77 70 
96 74 

cerned and confused about the real risks of getting AIDS," said Koop. "There is essentially no risk ... of transmission from a health care worker to a patient," he said. · 
INDIANA 

12-year-old held for death of brother INDIANAPOLIS -A preliminary murder charge was filed Thursday against a 12-year-old girl for the fatal 
stabbing of her 15-year-old brother, authorities said. The girl was beinl! held in the Marion County Juvenile Center. Seku Stanfield was stabbed Wednesday night when he intervened in an argument between his sister and brother, Indianapolis Police Detective David Burks said. The girl became impatient with her 9-year-old brother after asking him to open the apartment door for their mother, Linda Stanfield, 41, when the woman · arrived home about 11 p.m., Burks said. Ms. Stanfield was in another room when Seku was stabbed in the chest with a butcher knife, police said. Police found Seku on the bathroom floor. He was dead on arrival at Wishard Hospital. 
CAMPUS 

NO law students injured in wreck 
MISHAWAKA-Two Notre Dame law students were 
injured last night when a van driver collided with their 
car near the University Park Mall. Corinne Pavlis and 
Melissa McAndrews, both first-year law students, were 
waiting to turn right from State Road 23 into the Mall 
when the driver struck them from the passenger side, 
according to Pavlis. Their car was thrust into another 
car, then into the entrance of University Commons. The 
car was totaled in the accident, according to Pavlis, who 
said she received a bruised shoulder and whiplash. 
•A 
summer service project celebration for returnees will be held on Sunday, Sept. 1 at the Center for Social Concerns -9 a.m. 

•Residence 
halls hosting concession stands may pick up their packets beginning today at the LaFortune Information desk. Contact the Student Activities office with any questions. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1922: All of South Russia was reported to be in revolt against Bolsheviks. 

• 
In 1937: Joe Louis beat Tom Farr in his first title defense. 

• 
In 1949: In Paris, the U.S.S.R. rejected a Western plea for reunification for Germany. 

• 
In 1969: 96 of the 113 members of the hijac~ed TWA jet were set free by Syrians. Israelis were the only ones not released. 

• 
Five years ago: In Moscow, U.S. journalist Nicholas Qanlloff was seized by Soviets and accused of being a spy. 





David Schumerth 

sobering Advice·;.
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Jeff '91 cansavear 
and Sue 

Think Before You Drink 
~~-·­

Before You Drive .,v
-

i'lll!'lm'''""""'''llllml''''"""''''""""'''llllm!'''""""''''"""'''''"""'''''!!! 


Friday, August 30, 1991 

Design contest announced 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Food Services is sponsoring the "Design a Mug" contest in an effort to mix cre­ativity with conservation. 
The contest is open to stu­dents, staff and faculty. They are being asked to depict life at Notre Dame through a funny cartoon or picture, according to David Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services. 
"We want people to have some fun with designing the mugs," he said, "while encour­aging everyone to buy and reuse them." 
And, they want something a little more fun to look at than the Notre Dame logo, he said. 
According to Prentkowski, the Notre Dame Food Services staff began selling the refill mugs last year to try to reduce the huge waste of paper and plastic 

Students join Irish Guard 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame Irish Guard has announced its lineup for the 1991-92 year. This year's squad will be captained by se­nior Christopher Woods. This is Woods' third year with the guard. Two of the squad's other members-senior Trey Hester and junior Pat Bednarz-are starting their second year with the team. 
Seven new members have joined the Irish Guard. They are seniors Steve Curley, Matt Kil­lian and Jim Mercurio; juniors Lou Blaum and Chris Boone; sophomore Mike Maier and freshman Chris Bouffard. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-that just because he~ found

guilty of these charges ... it does not mean in anyway that he's guilty of anything else, anywhere else," said public de­
Happy 21st 

fender Mary Lou Cuellar. 
Rolling, who had been smiling and joking with his lawyers
Birthday 
~ 
~ otre 
~ arne

a ncounter 
~ 

D 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTV &STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with othera, to deepen your -underatlndlng of youraelf, your v1lues, your relationship _ with Christ, your experience of Chrlst..n community lnd 
_ service. 
~ RETREAT DATEs: 
[ APPLICATIONS, AccEPTED= 
g CONTACT: E­
~ COST: 

~ 
October 4-6, 1991 
I

September 2-9, 1991 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 239·7800 
S2S.OO 
~­
i 

The Irish Guard has been in 
existence since 1951. The 
squad marches in front of the 
Marching Band "making sure 
no one cuts through the band," 
according to Woods. They 
march at football games and 
perform a traditional Irish clog 
dance after each home victory. 
The squad also travels with the band, which means they will be performing this year at the Purdue game and at any bowl game in which the team plays. 
All members of the Irish Guard must be at least 6 feet 2 inches tall, and, according to Woods, it takes about two hours for the squad to put on their uniforms. 
cups used on campus. 
The first prize winner will have his or her entry printed on the new refill mug and will re­ceive a $100 gift certificate to Hammes Bookstore. Second and third place winners will re­ceive $50 and $25 bookstore gift certificates, respectively. 
The Notre Dame Food Ser­vices staff will select the win­ners in early November. The new mug design might even in­clude parts of several entries. 
The new mug is expected to arrive on campus after Christ­mas break in January, he said. 
All entries must be submitted by Oct. 18 at the South Dining Hall, Marketing and Nutrition Office, Lower Level, Room 1. The contestant's name, address and phone number must be on the back of the entry. 
All entries become the prop­erty of the Notre Dame Food Services. 
The Observer 
page 3 


~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 


COME JOIN THE FUN AT THE ANNUAL 
~ 
:3_ 

ACTIVITIES NIGHT
3 
::3 

SEPTEMBER 3 1gg 1
~ 
• 
] 

JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m.
~ 
I~ 
= 

SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 
]_ 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
:j 

The Observer/Sean Faman 
Casual setting 
Th~ st~ps of .the Architecture Building provides a comfortable setting for (left to right) Professor Tom RaJkOVICh, Elizabeth Butler, Dave Bagnoli, Joe Smith and Marette Tepe. 
Murder suspect guilty of robbery 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -The prime suspect in the slayings of five Gainesville college students was convicted Thursday in the armed robbery of a grocery store. 
The case may help place Danny Harold Rolling in Gainesville about the time of the slayings because the car used in the Tampa robbery was stolen from a student apart­ment complex in the area of University of Florida after the last bodies were found. 
However, his lawyer said that fails to prove Rolling committed the murders. 
"I would remind everyone 
through most of the trial, was 
stoic as the verdicts were read. 
"It's OK, mom, I love you," he 
mouthed to his mother, Claudia 
Rolling, in the front row of the 
courtroom. 
Following the verdict, prose­cutors said they expect to seek a life sentence for the robbery at the Oct. 11 sentencing. He's being held in Hillsborough County Jail. 
"What this legally does is, if he should ever be convicted in Gainesville, it will allow them to use this against him in the penalty phase," said Assistant State Attorney Cass CastiHo. "But if he is convicted of all five deaths in Gainesville, they probably won'fneed it anyway." 
The jury convicted Rolling of armed robbery, attempted armed robbery and aggravated assault on police in the holdup of a Tampa convenience store a few days after the last of five bodies were discovered in Gainesville. 
Rolling is charged in several 
other burglaries and robberies 
stretching from Tampa to 
Gainesville, where last month 
prosecutors said he robbed a 
bank the day after the first two 
bodies were found last August. 
And earlier this week, a police affidavit listed evidence that may tie Rolling to a 1989 triple slaying in his hometown, Shreveport, La. In that crime, a victim was posed similar to some of the Gainesville victims. 
He's also wanted in the at­tempted murder of his father, a former Sitreveport police ofti­cial. 
No one has been charged in the student murders in Gainesville. Prosecutors said they plan to present evidence to a grand jury in November on Rolling and former University of Florida student Edward Humphrey. 
Dflilltlililllillilill1lllilUlliJlJIJillWJJiulllilllllJJIIlill!lJ111UillJJi11illWJii11illWJli1 

The Observer

page 4 Friday, August 30, 1991 
Yugoslav army accused of siding with Serbian rebels 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -A senior European envoy on Thursday accused the federal army of siding with Serbian rebels in their war with Croatia and said only foreign observers can guarantee peace in the breakaway republic. 
The war between the ethnic Serbian minority and the Croat­ians appeared to have entered a lull, although sporadic sniper fire was exchanged in several areas, the Croatian news agency Hina said. 
Croatian and Serbian media said a tense calm prevailed in the besieged eastern Croatian town of Vukovar, on the border with Serbia and site of the worst fighting in the past week. 
More than 50 busloads of mothers of conscripts in the Yugoslav army traveled to Bel­grade to demand that their sons be released from the federal forces. Some said Serb civilians harassed them as they traveled through the republic. 
In the Croatian town of Osijek, 10,000 mothers converged on an army building to make the same demand. 

Fighting between Serbs and Croats has torn Croatia since the republic declared indepen­dence on June 25. 
Leaders of Croatia's 600,000­strong Serbian minority oppose secession and demand self-de­termination for areas where they live if the republic leaves the Yugoslav federation. Although far outnumbered, the Serbs now occupy about a fourth of Croatian territory. 
The Serb-dominated federal military also is involved. Its leaders say the federal soldiers are keeping Croats and Serbs apart, but European Commu­nity envoy Henry Wijnaendts, who visited Vukocar on Wednesday, disputed that. 
"Given the light armaments we saw on the Croatian side, the level of force apparently used by the federal army seems difficult to reconcile with the role they claim, namely that of an interposition force between fighting factions," he said in a statement. 
"If this visit convinced us of anything, it is that impartial foreign monitors are indis­pensable if a cease-fire is at least to hold," said the state­ment, sent to The Associated Press in Belgrade. 
The EC has blamed Serbia for the failure of all cease-fire ef­forts. It has proposed a peace conference to end the fighting, which has killed at least 280 people. 
The EC repeated the accusa­tion on Thursday, and threat­ened to halt talks with the most powerful Yugoslav republic if it does not accept the latest EC peace plan. 
Speaking on be half of the current Dutch presidency of the EC, Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek said the Netherlands will propose an emergency meeting next week on Yu­goslavia, and on the exclusion 
Church urges Polish citizens to vote 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The powerful Roman Catholic church on Thursday urged its followers to "defend Christian principles" such as opposition to abortion in voting for the nation's first freely elected parliament since World War II. 
In an unprecedented appeal published by the episcopal press office, the bishops called participation in the Oct. 27 elections "an important moral duty." 
Noting that the first demo­cratic parliament in post-Com­munist Poland will prepare and approve a new constitution, the bishops said the elections will "decide about the future sys­tem" of Poland. 
"A Christian cannot choose a system which refuses God a place in public life," the state­ment said, adding that Catholics were bound to support the social teachings of the church. 
"There are laws which no human power can change: ... the right to live, from the mo­ment of conception to a natural death, and the right to religious freedom," the bishops said. 

Responding to charges that they were interfering unduly in politics, the statement noted that priests are not running for office, and the church is not supporting any party in the elections. 
The church is respected for its role in deposing Commu­nism, but many Poles have crit­icized the church-backed legis­lation that introduced religion classes to schools and opposed a proposal to outlaw abortion. 
Although about 95 percent of the 38 million Poles are Roman Catholics, a recent poll showed that more than half the popula­tion believes the church's role in public affairs it too great. Nearly two-thirds want church­state separation written into the next constitution. 
Poland's current parliament was chosen in 1989, becoming the first in the Soviet bloc to in­clude non-Communists. But the elections were rigged to guar­antee Communists and their al­lies two-thirds of the seats in 
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
SIGN UP AUGUST 27-30 
NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL AND LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK (9:00 A.M.-9:00 P.M.) 

WHO: Class of 1992 
WHEN: Pictures taken September 2-20 
WHERE:Third Floor, LaFortune 
WHY: To Be In 1992 DOME 

Minimum sitting fee $10.00 
the lower, decision-making house of parliament. 
In November, Poles elected Lech Walesa as their first democratically chosen presi­dent since the fall of Commu­nism. 
Correction 
The seventh paragraph of Wednesday's story on the changes in the housekeeping should have read: "In addition, the private bathrooms found in some residence halls, such as Walsh Hall, were cleaned by housekeepers three times last year. These bathrooms will now be cleaned once a week." The Observer regrets the error. 
sobering Advice, cansavealife 
Think BefOre YOU Drink BefOre.You Drive 
of Serbia from EC-Yugoslav discussions unless Serbia ac­cepts EC peacekeeping monitors in the strife-torn republic of Croatia. · 
In Belgrade, busloads of mothers from Croatia, Mace­donia and Bosnia demanded to speak to federal Defense Minis­ter Gen. Veljko Kadijevic and Chief of Staff Gen. Blagoje Adzic about their sons' military service. 
The republics of Bosnia and Macedonia have been neutral in the Serb-Croatian conflict but increasingly both have been leaning toward Croatia. 
Military officers diverted the convoys to an army barracks in the suburbs. But by late evening, no senior army official had talked with the parents. 
In Osijek, 10,000 mothers, some weeping, banged on the doors of an army building but also received no reception from officers. 
"Serb army get out! March back to Serbia!" they shouted. 
Meanwhile, Serb militants were tightening their grip on Vukovar, Belgrade television reported. About 3,000 Croatian policemen and members or the Croatian National Guard were believed trapped in the city. 
"Since the (Croat defenders) cannot escape, we are offering them a chance to survive by surrendering," Nernanja Kojic, a local Serb commander, was quoted as saying on a Belgrade evening TV newscast. 
Serbia's hard-line President Slobodan Milosevic was non­committal Thursday on the EC's latest proposal to end the fighting. 
"We are going to study the peace plan," Milosevic said after a 90-minute meeting in Paris with French President Francois Mitterrand. 
Later, French Foreign Minis­ter Roland Dumas told re­porters that Milosevic "asked to think about it, but I have the impression there was some slight progress." 
I + Ame_r_i_c_an_Re_d_C_r_o_s_s ___. 
Fulbright Comoitition 1992-1993 
Seniors Interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad ore inuited to on informational meeting with aduisor, John Welle(7204) on Wednesday, September 4th at 7:30 p.m. in room 118 O'Shaughnessy. 
BEACH PARTY! 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31 ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH {RAIN DATE SEPTEMBER 1) 
A GREAT SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
11:00 AM BIATHLON 
INDIVIDUAL AND 2 PERSON TEAMS SWIM 1/2 MILE RUN 2 MILES REGISTER AT REC SPORTS OFFICE IN ADVANCE VARSITY & "THE REST OF US" DIVISIONS 


NOON BEACH VOLLEYBALL 
TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT REC SPORTS OFFICE 3 AND 6 PERSON TEAMS 


CANOEING PADDLE BOATS SCUBA DEMOS KAYAKING CLINIC SAILING AND ROWING DEMOS 
....,.
........ IIOII·ttAIISIJY .ATHLEFICS 
Friday, August 30, 1991 

Security cautions students 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Crime throughout South Bend is on the rise, and campus se­curity is warning students to be aware of new dangers on-and off-campus. 
A major area of concern is the neighborhood directly south of campus, according to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame security. In the past, many of the homes in that area were rented out to students during the school year. Recently, how­ever, Rakow said that many of the houses are being rented out by the week or the month. 
As a result, the area is now inhabited by a "more transient group." This, said Rakow, has created an environment in which crime is more likely. 
"South Bend, in general, is seeing a bigger crime picture," said Rakow. "There's been a lot of violent crime this summer," including drug-related crimes and gang violence. 
Security is concerned for the safety of studenl'i Jiving in and frequenting establishments in the area south of the campus, which includes Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, The Commons and Club 23. 
Many students find them­selves inebriated in that part of town between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m., according to Rakow. This adds an additional element of danger because students under the influence tend to lose their judgement and reflexes, and, in turn, are more susceptible to attacks, he said. 
However, Rakow added, "students should just be con­cerned whenever they're out in small groups," because crime can happen anywhere. 
Rakow recently had a meeting with Ron Marsiniak, 

South Bend police chief, and 
Mayor Joe Kernan in an effort 
to "share information." The two 
departments will be working 
together to increase safety on 
and around campus through a 
variety of cooperative pro­
grams, said Rakow. 
The city's Neighborhood En­

forcement Services Team 
(NEST), which patrols problem 
areas as a preventative mea­
sure against crime, will be 
stepping up its patrols between 
Thursday and Saturday, ac­
cording to Rakow. "' 
Notre Dame security has also 

commissioned an additional 
campus car to patrol the 
perimeter area from 8 p.m. to 4 
a.m. and "watch out for stu­dents," said Rakow. 
Finally, a publicity campaign 

was launched in an attempt to 
make students more aware of 
the dangers off campus and to 
teach them how to stay out of 
trouble. 
Rakow fears that this may not 

be the case. "We hear rum­
blings," he said, "that some 
students think this is just being 
put out into the public because 
we want to curb drinking." 
He denied this assessment. 

"We wouldn't be spending the 
time and the money talking 
about the northeast neighbor­
hood just to curb drinking." 
Rakow said that there are a number of things that students can do in order to avoid being a victim: 
• 
Don't overconsume alcohol, he said, because it dulls judge­ment, awareness and reflexes. 

• Be aware of surroundings. 


• 
Try to travel in groups and avoid dark areas, he said. 

• 
Don't go toe-to-toe with an attacker. "If it's a wallet they're after," Rakow said, "give up the wallet and get out of there." 


The Best Rates in Town! 
Call and compare our rates to any other federally insured financial institution. We're sure you'll find we have the best rates in town I 

3 Month Certificate 6 Month Certificate 

12 Month Certificate 
$2,000 Minimum Deposit Dividends Paid at Maturity 
Substantial penalty for early withdrawal 
5.752% 
Daily Money Market Account $2,500 Minimum 
All annual interest rates listed here are subject to change without notice 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (219) 239-6611 
Independent from the UnlversHy 
The Observer page 5 

Clean clothes 
Brett Myrter, a junior living in Dillon Hall, does the demanding chore of laundry in Badin Hall Thursdav. 
Three rescued after 12 days adrift 
NEW YORK (AP) -Three pleasure boaters survived Hur­ricane Bob in a life raft after their yacht sank and were res­cued after 12 days lost at sea by a Navy sailor who dropped from a helicopter into shark-infested waters. 
The castaways, who included a pregnant woman, ate fish they caught and seaweed dur­ing the ordeal, a survivor said Thursday after they were flown to NP.w York for treatment. 
Sunburned, swollen and suf­fering from exposure and de­hydration, the three were gin­gerly taken off a Navy heli­copter at Kennedy Airport, transferred to wheelchairs and stretchers, and whisked to a hospital. 
Bound for Newport, R.I., from Little River Inlet, S.C., the 38­foot sloop Moorings 38 sank on Aug. 18. Winds gusting to 70 mph ripped off the sailboat's 
mast amid waves pushing 40 feet. 
Hurricane Bob battered the East Coast from the Carolinas to Maine starting Aug. 19, killing at least 16 people and causing more than $780 million in damage. 
Survivor Edward Provost, 42, of Pawleys Island, S.C., spoke briefly with reporters, thanking Petty Officer 3rd Class Steve Doerner for helping rescue them about 80 miles south of Cape May, N.J., on Wednesday. 
"This man dove into water filled with sharks to get my two crewmates out," Provost said. "This guy is unbelievable. He's the real hero." 
Provost, skipper Marc Du­pauillion, 26, of Calabash, N.C., and Allison Wilcox, 3 2, of Austin, Texas, were taking the sailboat to Rhode Island for its owner, and were supposed to arrive by Aug. 21. A search be­gan Aug. 23 after they were re­ported overdue. 
All were in stable but guarded condition Thursday. Wilcox's pregnancy was not threatened. 
The three sailors abandoned ship after hitting a water spout. They brought along a survival kit, some food and three gallons of water, but lost most of their provisions after the raft was repeatedly flipped by high waves. 
Provost said they survived by catching fish and eating "a lot of seaweed." They kept each other alert by telling stories, but their conditions deteriorated rapidly after they ran out of fresh water three days before their rescue, forcing them to sip sea water. 
Provost said they saw heli­copters looking for them for four days before they were spotted. 
Way also advised that stu­dents stay at home if they want to drink alcohol, or arrange for transportation. They should also bring out the minimal amount of money possible, he said. 
"Once they're assaulted they wise up," he said. "If they don't, they'll be reading about it in the paper." 
Attacks 
continued from page 1 
city. Two days later I guarantee they're going to come home and find their stereo gone." 
The only reason neighbor­hood kids come in, he said, is to case the homes for drugs and items that can be stolen later. 
And the perpetrators are almost never over age 20. "They range in age from 12 to 16," Way said. 
Like Rex Rakow, Way stressed that students should never hang around and try to fight attackers. They may be young and small, he said, but "they're often armed -and they're good at what they do." 
rF~~®fKllMl~WI W~[L©©lMJ~ ~~iS~ lr©OOO@fKllr~~~ 
OJ NIGHT AT THEODORE'S (2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER) 9:00 PM -1:OOAM *FREE* 
Bring your friends &dance the night away!!!! SATURDAY,AUGUST31& SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 Come and see CRAIG KARGES Mind reader, ESP, Psychic Magician 8:00 PM -Washington Hall Tickets $3.00 on sale at LaFortune Information Desk 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Or Your Money Back 

page 6 The Observer Friday, August 30, 1991 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Shooting hoops 

These stud~nts take a break from buying books and finding class­rooms to play basketball on the Stepan Courts Thursday. 
WASHINGTON (AP) Richard Kerr, the deputy direc­tor of the CIA, will take over next week as acting director to replace William Webster, who is retiring from government service, the agency said Thurs­day. 
The CIA public affairs office said Kerr will become acting director on Sept. 2, and will serve until a new director is confirmed. 
Webster announced his re­tirement in May and said he would leave the agency at the end of July to go into private law practice. But he extended his service, at the request of President Bush, after the Senate held up confirmation of his designated successor, Robert Gates. 
The Senate Intelligence Committee, which was sup­posed to start its Gates confir­mation hearings on July 15, postponed them until Septem­ber 16 to pursue new informa­tion regarding Gates' role in the Iran-Contra alTair. 
The information stems from testimony by former CIA officer Alan Fiers, who pleaded guilty earlier this month to two mis­demeanors in connection with the diversion of Iran arms sales profits to the Contra rebels in 
Nicaragua. 
Officials send food to rebel Cuban inmates 
TALLADEGA, Ala. (AP) ­Federal officials on Thursday sent food to rebel Cuban in­mates and their nine hostages, ending a weeklong starvation siege at a prison. 
But at least two hostages need medical help, said officials who fear for the hostages' mental state. 
The inmates, meanwhile, posted a sign that said ..Pray for us." 
The seven men and two women hostages, as well as 121 Cuban detainees and 18 Ameri­can inmates in the occupied unit, were given hamburger, rice, beans, bread and coffee only a few hours after the Cubans released one ailing hostage. 
Prison officials said the re­leased hostage -Kitty Sud­deth, a 34-year-old prison sec­retary -was receiving medical treatment Thursday, but re­fused to disclose her condition or location. 
The officials asked hostage 


Mo•-Thurs. 11;3() am-8;J()pm Friday 11:30-10:00 pm S.tarclay •:30-tO:OOpm SundayOORd 
2446 M1racle Lane ToWft &Coun1ry Shopping Center 258-4911 • Eal In Dr Ca"y Out 
~ 
liangle Drafting Supply 1021 North M.in Str•et Milh•w•ka, lndiena 46545 

NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS 

:1M-F SAM-5:30PM SAT 9 AM-NOON 
Kerr replaces CIA director Webster 
dia. But a member of the Sud­deth family, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said, ..We're elated Kitty is free ... We praise the Lord for her safety. We thank the negotiators, and we are praying for the other hostages' safe release." 
Food had been withheld from the unit since the takeover be­gan the morning of Aug. 21, but was delivered early Thursday. 
Inmates posted a sign from the roof Tuesday night that read: "We have not been fed for a week. The hostages are dying due to the lack of food." 
Among signs raised by five Cubans who went on the roof of the besieged unit Thursday was one that read "Pray for us." 
Greg Bogdan, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, said Thursday at least two hostages needed "significant medical attention." He didn't elaborate. 

"Moreover," Bogdan said, "we are concerned about the long­term psychological effect that this stress~{ ordeal is having on the hostages and any detainees that might not want to be there." 
The Cubans in the besieged cellblock are among thousands who arrived in this country during the 1980 Mariel boatlift, and some have said they would rather die than return to their homeland. 
Warden Roger Scott said that doctors examined the nine hostages and detainees at a grille at the entry to the unit, but that they "were not allowed to fully assess the condition of the hostages. 

2.00 off COs 
Excludes imports, sale items and used 
Expires Sept 13, 1991 
Fiers said he reported the di­version to three of his superi­ors, one of whom told him to withhold the information from Congress. 
During some of that time, Gates was deputy director to William Casey, becoming acting director of the agency in De­cember 1986 when the late CIA chief became too ill with a brain tumor to work. Gates served in that capacity until Webster became agency director in the spring of 1987. 
Kerr, 55, became deputy CIA director when Bush named Gates as his deputy national se­curity adviser in January 1989. 
It wasn't the first time he had followed in Gates' footsteps. Kerr became the head of the agency's intelligence analysis directorate in April 1986 when Gates was promoted to deputy CIA director. 
He was named as a long-shot among potential candidates for the top agency job when Web­ster announced his retirement in May after four years at the helm. 
Kerr hasn't escaped mention in the annals of the Iran-Contra scandal, either. Records show that a former CIA analyst, Charles Allen, told Kerr in Au­gust 1986 that he suspected Iran was being overcharged for the weapons it was buying from the United States and the prof­its were being used to arm the Contras. 
Kerr told congressional in­vestigators in 1987 that he passed Allen's concerns to Gates, who asked to be kept in­formed. Gates, according to the report of the congressional Iran-Contra committees, said he didn't remember the conver­sation with Kerr. Allen subse­quently sought out Gates di­rectly in October 1986 and passed on his suspicions, both have testified. 
Kerr was born in Fort Smith, Ark., grew up on the West Coast, graduated from the Uni­versity of Oregon, and joined the CIA in 1960 as a military analyst. 
Like Gates, he has served as an analyst of Soviet affairs. He analyzed aerial reconnaissance photos during the Cuban missile crisis in 1963-63, was the CIA liaison with the U.S. Pacific Command and chaired the committee responsible for the requirements and uses of satel­lite imagery. 
In 1976 he was named direc­tor of the .office responsible for worldwide political analysis. 
United way
• 

It brings out tht~ best in all of us. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 
30 30 30 LOOK ..... IT'S 30 30 MARCIA BRADY! 30 
30 30 30 
30
OR IS IT

30 30 
30 R 0 B I N K R A M E R 
30 30 (HUMAN RESOURCES) 30 30 THAT'S OVER THE HILL? 30 30 30 30 30 
~~ HAPPY 30TH BIRTHDAY ROBIN' 30 
Love: Rhonda, Renee, 30 
30 Lori, AnnMarie, 30 
30 · Amy and Jan!!! 30 
30' 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 
families to avoid the news me-_____s_u_n_d_a_v__-_____ 

Daily 1 D-9 11 7 CASH-TRADE FOR USED CDS & TAPES 277-8338
IJ rn & ~ ~ ~------=:::===!!!11111"-r---· 


1.00 off tapes 

Excludes sale items and used 
Expires Sept 13, 1991 

., 
Friday, August 30, 1991 The Observer page 7 

American Red Cross 

AT AZAR'S 
Now that you've danced 

the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar·s. 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

•
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you:re not quite to call ~ anight, head to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all­new LATE NITE menu. lfll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
Afl'l! 
BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 

Subway operator admits drinking during work 
NEW YORK (AP) -The oper­ator of a speeding subway train said he had been drinking and was falling asleep at the con­trols just before the train derailed, killing five people, ac­cording to court documents re­leased Thursday. 
Robert Ray, 38, had a blood­alcohol level of 0.21 percent, twice the legal limit, according to tests taken about 13 hours after the accident. Tests showed no trace of drugs, police said. 
Police had reported earlier that a vial with traces of co­caine was found in the motor­man's cab. 
Ray was arraigned on five counts of second-degree manslaughter and was ordered held without bail. 

The transport union repre­senting him announced it will agree to random drug and al­cohol testing in an effort to re­store confidence among riders after the worst accident in 63 years in the nation's largest subway system. 
The National Transportation Safety Board completed its on­site investigation Thursday but will not issue a final report for at least seven months, said Ken Lopatkiewicz, the board's spokesman. 
Ray told police he had been drinking before work and was falling asleep as he operated the 10-car train, which crashed as it switched from the express to the local track at the Union Square station in lower Man­hattan, according to the com­plaint that charged him with manslaughter. 
At least 133 passengers of the approximately 500 people aboard the train were injured in Wednesday's accident, which sheered ofT part of the first car, folded the third car around a wall and derailed several other cars. An additional 126 people, including police and firefighters and other rescue workers, were treated at the scene. 
Five late-night workers -two women and three men -were killed, police said. 
The motorman told police he "consumed alcohol prior to his operation of said train and was falling asleep as he operated the train prior to the crash," according to the complaint 
With joy and thanksgiving, The Congregation of Holy Cross announces the Profession of Perpetual VolVs by our brothe1·s: 
Bruce Kevin Cecil, C.S.C. John Roger Geracci, C.S.C. Peter Andrew Jarret, C.S.C. Santiago Mendez-Vides, C.S.C. Kevin Paul Spicer, C.S.C. Anthony Vincent Szakaly, C.S.C. 
at a celebration of the Eucharist 
1:30 P.M. Saturday, August 31, 
1991 Sacred Heart Church Notre Dame, Indiana 
prepared by Detective William Barger of the Police Depart­ment's Major Case Squad. 
Ray also said the train was traveling about 35 to 45 mph when it crashed, according to the complaint. Steven Blakely, acting General Superintendent of the TA's Rapid Transit De­partment, said the speed limit where the derailment occurred is 10 mph. 
According to the police com­plaint, the train's conductor, David Beerem, told police Ray was operating the train at a speed "far in excess of a safe speed," when it made the track change and crashed. 
Beerem also said Ray had been operating the train errati­cally before the crash, over­shooting two stations in the Bronx. At one, five cars went beyond the end of the platform; at another, one car did, the complaint said. 
Immediately after the acci­dent, Ray talked to two police officers but then left the subway tunnel. Authorities did not see him again until they picked him up at his apartment about 5 1/2 
New unemployment claims fall slightly in mid-August 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell slightly in mid­August, the government reported today. 
For the week ending Aug. 17, there were 421,000 Americans filing first-time claims for help, down 9,000 from the previous week's mark of 430,000, the Labor Department said. 
The 9,000-decrease, though not large enough to reverse the 22,000-spurt that had occurred the week before, at least stemmed recent increases in jobless claims. 
The level of new jobless claimants can be extremely er­ratic from week to week and analysts hesitate to read too much into the number until the level moves in the same direc­tion for three or four weeks in a row. However, the number is seen as a bit of fresh evidence on hiring practices across America. 
Claims had risen for two straight weeks, so the 9,000­decline for the week ending Aug. 17 stops -or interrupts -that upward trend. 
Since hitting peaks of more than 500,000 in March, the level of new claims had fallen, for the most part, until June, when it began fluctuating be­tween 400,000 and 430,000. 
For the week ending Aug. 10, there were 3.3 million Ameri­cans actually claiming unem­ployment benefits, a decrease of 23,000 from the previous week, the Labor Department said. 
.Affierican Red Cross 
hours  after  the  midnight  
accident.  
Sonny  Hall,  president  of  

Transport Workers Union Local 100, said his union was willing to accept random drug and alcohol testing to offset "the perception of substance abuse among transit workers." 
He said he planned to propose testing to Metropolitan Trans­portation Authority head Peter Stangl at a meeting late Thurs­day. 
..My members ... have no fear of drug and alcohol testing," he said. 
Mayor David Dinkins praised the decision. 
"It sure can't hurt and I think it could help a lot," he said. "Whether it would have avoided this particular situation, obvi­ously nobody knows." 
The Transit Authority tests employees when they are hired, for any promotion, as part of their regular physical check­ups, and when an accident or "any incident warrants it," said Bob Previdi, a transit spokesman. 
America's unemployed 
New claims 

No more benefits 
Jobless workers ~ 
who exhausted state 
unemployment benefits:* 
300························································· 

Source: U.S. Department of Labor AP 

_______________________________________.... 

The Observer

page 8 Friday, August 30, 1991 
Bush, Maj<:>r discuss Soviet shakeup 
Major lists western aid package for Soviets 
: : . 

. . NOTE: Figures do not equal100% due to rounding 
AP/Karl Tate 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 

that restructured the pillars of Soviet society and raised fears of further economic turmoil, ethnic unrest and political chaos. 
Without drama, legislators voted 283-29, with 52 absten­tions, to suspend the party that had ruled the nation by fear and intimidation for 7 4 years, with a presence in every fac­tory, school and city hall. They also froze its bank accounts and halted its financial operations, meaning party operatives cannot he paid. 
"I frankly rejoice in ... the demise, the fall of the totalitar­ian non-democratic party," President Bush said in Maine. 
Party archives were sealed, which could hurt party officials seeking jobs elsewhere. 
The resolution urged the So­viet prosecutor to turn over ev­idence of official involvement in the coup to the national Supreme Court, which would then determine whether the party can resume operations. 
But it appeared unlikely the party could reassert the control it once had. 
Party leaders were deeply in­volved in the Aug. 18-21 coup that toppled Gorhachev. Mem­bers of its Politburo and Central Committee were on the eight­member committee that set itself up as the Soviet Union's government. 
Gorbachev quit as party leader on Saturday, urged the party's Central Committee to disband, and terminated party cells in the Soviet government, armed forces, Interior Ministry, KGB, and other law enforce­ment agencies. 
Yeltsin, who has taken the initiative in reshaping the na­tion's political structure, earlier had barred the party from his vast republic and sealed party archives. 

Party chiefs in the republics have quit the Politburo or their party positions altogether and many have led the drives to suspend the party's activities. Party buildings have been sealed, statues of party icons toppled. 
As the party came under at­tack throughout the republics, new inter-ethnic problems be­gan to arise. 
Kazakhstan President Nor­sultan Nazarbayev said tension was rising in his republic be­
"Grear Brands. (;reD' Ser-.·ice, Greai Price·s. Renrats 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Elkhart Mon Thu1s South Bend 
l'fE!1·f11 h~\/r'pm lfli=ti·tFJ 
220 W Marion Sal lO-4 pm 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUrrAR & BASS REPAIRSI 

cause Yeltsin has not clearly renounced Russian territorial claims there, the Interfax news agency reported. 
"This can force the republic to take the same steps as the Ukraine. Special danger lies in the fact that Kazakhstan is a nuclear republic," Interfax quoted Nazarhayev as saying. 
The fragmentation of the union has raised the specter of new republics -some whose names were unrecognizable to Americans before this week ­becoming nuclear powers overnight, with the attending hazards of attack or accident. 
Kazakhstan is of special con-
SINCE 1~.J9 

cern because it hosts 15-20 percent of the Soviet Union's fixed silo nuclear missiles, as well as two nuclear weapons testing ranges and a bomber base which is probably nuclear capable. 
In his radio address, Yeltsin ruled out a division of strategic arms among the republics. 
Nazarbayev issued a decree closing, the test range at Semi­
. ..needs a SMC DfiY EDITOR For more Information please caII Jennifer Habrych 284 tt'IZ6 Day Editor must be able to work Mon. Wed. & Fri afternoons 

CLASS MASS HAS BEEN POSTPONED TO SONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 AT 5:00P.M. 
palatinsk. He demanded com­pensation for the "damage done to the health of the population" by tests at the base since 1949. There have been no tests there in two years. 
Gorbachev told the Supreme Soviet he was dispatching a delegation to Kazakhstan be­cause the situation "got more complicated." He spoke three times by telephone with 


KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine (AP) -The United States and Britain called Thursday for "totally guaranteed" safeguards on the Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal amid the Kremlin collapse and also pledged humanitarian assistance for the difficult days ahead. 
President Bush said there had been no concern about "something going awry" in the confusion of last week's botched coup. 
Nevertheless, he said the control of the weapons "needs to be sorted out, and I'm confident that everybody in the republics and everybody in the center understands that the last thing that the world needs is some kind of a nuclear scare, say nothing of a nuclear con­frontation." 
British Prime Minister John Major, standing alongside Bush, said, "It is a matter that we'll want to address and discuss with the Soviets at an early stage, and the sooner we can get positive answers and positive assurances, the happier we'll be." 
The two leaders held talks at the president's oceanfront home and went fishing -un­successfully -in Bush's speed­boat before holding a midday 
WASHINGTON (AP) -British Prime Minister John Major to­day listed the following six ways in which the West will aid the Soviet Union. 
1. 
Extend existing food cred­its. 

2. 
Assess the need for food aid this winter. 


3. Send "lifeline" teams to the news conference outdoors un­der a bright sun. 

Bush welcomed the news that the Soviet parliament had sus­pended the Communist Party. "I don't see any bad news in that at all. Hejoice! Cheer!" 
The president also indicated he would put off until Monday official recognition of the Baltic states, hoping that Soviet law­makers would grant indepen­dence by then. 
White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said later that Bush's message was that the Soviet government should act by Monday "or we would have a decision of our own." Timing aside, Bush made his feelings obvious. 
"We've urged the Soviet lead­ership not to stand against the will of the inevitable, the winds of this inevitable change. Clearly the Baltics will have freedom." 
Agreeing on a go-slow ap­proach on assistance toward the Soviet Union, Bush and Ma­jor held back from any com­mitment of financial aid. 
They said they would provide food credits, assess the need for additional food aid in the winter months and send "lifeline teams" to the Soviet Union to 
Soviet Union to provide assis­tance in establishing efficient food production and distribu­tion systems. 
4. Implement existing know­how programs on technical aid discussed by the G-7 group of industrialized nations and other bilateral programs. 
5. Get the International Mon­etary Fund and the World Bank to become urgently involved in providing practical assistance in structural reform plans within the Soviet Union. 
6. Push for associate mem­bership soon in the JMF for the Soviet Union with a view to full membership in the future. 
help create an efficient food production and distribution system. 
Moreover, Major said they would move ahead with "know­how" programs of technical assistance, and push the Inter­national Monetary Fund and World Bank to produce practi­cal plans for overhauling the disintegrating economy. 
The two leaders also agreed to speed up the process that would lead to full membership for the Soviet Union in the IMF, making it eligible sooner for loans. 
"We cannot dictate the ending of what's happening in the So­viet Union, but neither are we mere spectators," Major said. 
Major said he understood the sentiment for "something fresh, entirely different and entirely dramatic, but we have to consider what will be practical, what is deliverable and what would actually help." 
The prime minister said the West needs more information before going beyond food aid and technical assistance. "There's no point in going be­yond that until we can see pre­cisely what the need is," he said. 

Viewpoint
Friday, August 30, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Turhill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton GiI bert Gomez 
News Editor ....••........•.•••.... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ...•.•.....•••.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••.••.•••••David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor .••••.•••••••.•••••.John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller .................... ·.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and rhe tree expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Athletics can be positive learning experience 
Dear Editor: competitive athletics. revenge, the brutality and the BUT HOW YOU PLAYED THE their homes, that they will be 
I think it is long past the time We are an honorable, cry to win at any price. GAME... for the rest of their lives, and if for sports fans, various alumni, generous and good people.The ·Sports can be an antidote to Coaching is often a thankless they pass this time with little or athletes, coaches and the media Judea-Christian Ethic and a softness and easy living and an task. We may overlook the no fruit, it will be a hopeless to give more time and concern sense of propriety that additional avenue in relieving positive influence coaches exer­delusion later on to make good evaluating the meaning and characterized America in the tensions, stress, pressure or cise over their charges from the omissions of their precious purpose of competitive sports past as an ideal and a goal, is even mental strain. Sports ac­dangerous, harmful and mali­days at home. activity at all levels in our coun­disappearing in many segments tivity must be pursued in pru­cious influences. Coaching is an In closing, permit me to quote try. of American society and not just dence and moderation to be ef­art with great potential for the Paul's Epistle to the 
Some people have suffered the organized competitive fective for the health of the development of strong moral Corinthians, where he resorts to the loss of a livelihood, their athletics. The pristine value of participants. and cultural values in youth. My sports to signify his religious reputation and their good name the family and family life must Sports is the school for the old high school coach, Lefty and human mission as an apos­because of the web of suspicion be restored to its lofty and body, mind and soul, such as Marinou of Benson Tech in tle to us.lt is taken from his and perhaps their innocent in­primitive place that it once loyalty, courage, honor, sports­Portland, Oregon, taught us epistle to the Corinthians. 1st volvement in administering enjoyed. If society is sick it is manship, mercy, compassion lessons in proper behavior and Corinthians, Chapter 9, Verses competitive sports activity. because the family is sick. and fair play. discipline that is still a part of 34 to 35. " Do you not know Those who are guilty might This is where we must focus Our bodies are Gods master­my character over 55 years that in a race all the runners have inadvertently tainted the our attention; on the restoration piece, and the dignity, harmony later. run. But only one gets the reputation of their conferers by of the family and family life and and chasteness of our bodies All praise to our coaches for prize? Run in such a way as to this web of suspiGion and every then the restoration of society rust he ctiltivated so that we the splendor they have given to get the prize. Everyone who effort must and I know will be will surely follow. We read can render due homage to the the youth of our country and to competes in the game goes into made to exonerate these from the daily newspaper that Divine Creator and the edifica­our great nation itself. We are strict training. They do it to get honorable people. most violence stems from the tion of all. grateful indeed. Coaches are a crown that will not last; but 
More of us must take an home among family members Sometimes when we win, we playing a very important role in we do it to get a crown that will active concern in maintaining and their acquaintances so we lose and sometimes when we the development of youth to last forever." the honesty, the integrity, the can plainly see that the family is lose, we win. Mr Grantland face the joys, sorrows or Lou Holtz of Notre Dame safety and the wholesomeness pivotal. The family is the first Rice, one of the famous sports whatever in your adult life long football coach emphasizes 3 of this area of our national life. school for children, and writers of this century, once ob­after you have left the playing rules to his players. They are: I. The media and appointed mothers and fathers are the served in a poem: field. The priorities they are Have a goal in life. 2.Do your commissions that do the children's first teachers. educating to would probably be best. 3. Do unto others as you monitoring cannot hope to be When and where morality is FOR WHEN THE ONE GREAT the following: (I) Home, church would have them do unto you. successful without the help and divorced from competitive ath­SCORER COMES, or synagogue. (2) School books cooperation of more of our letics what follows is the con­TO WRITE AGAINST YOUR and study. (3) And then Brother Edward Courtney, citizens who are able and can tinual spiral of violence and NAME, ATHLETICS if you are so in­esc render invaluable assistance in dishonesty solidly entrenched HE MARKS NOT THAT YOU clined. Let young people never Columba Hall maintaining the integrity of which in turn gives life to WON OR LOST... forget that what they are in August 28, 1991 
Gay and lesbian group should rise above petty tactics, name-calling 
Dear Editor: agenda, complete with discriminated against on a the above mentioned reality of do well to avoid the group. 
Well, they're at it already. incomplete citations (1988) daily basis in the real world discrimination, albeit politely In other words, they need to Having just read the first and unsubstantiated so why should life under the upper middle class and grow up, get their heads out of official volley fired over the behavioral lampoons (1991). Golden Dome be any differ­Catholic. the clouds and endeavor to administration's bow by that Might they not instead have ent? (Of course,open hostility rise above the tactics of those unofficially recognized gay regaled readers of the is usually circumvented by If this first ad of the 91-92 people and agencies the group and lesbian student group, I "Orientation" issue with pre­mere eye rolls and snickers academic year is a sampie of purportedly repudiates. I grow am now quite glad that I did views of coming attractions: after a suspected homosexual the ink, space, time and weary of their negative ener­not contribute money to help social, educational and yes, leaves the room). money they are going to waste gies and pronouncements be­finance said advertisement even spiritual? They need to trading barbs and name fouling my morning coffee. when unofficially solicited by top their belly-aching and get If nothing else, the group calling both Student Affairs the bi-umvirate responsible -on with it. should be devoted to providing and Campus Ministry, then Craig B. McKee or rather irresponsible -for students, staff and faculty with any reasonably adjusted gay, Evening Supervisor once again foisting their They should get a proverbial the psychic coping strategies lesbian or bisexual within the Reserve Book Room incredibly tired political clue; gays and lesbians are and infrastructure to..deal with University community would August 27,1991 
DOONESBURY 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
tl~, !¥WO, P&RS<YVAUY, IT'S NO 816 lJtAL.. 70M& tuH&TH&I< IAI&'V&-MeTEJU(F& a?.N(JT, 8lJT 
I AM ClJRJ()JS AeCUTewE 7HIMS... 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'At 50 everyone has the face he deserves.' 
George Orwell 
Submit to: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
_______________________________________.... 


.. 
.. 
. ;~ 

AUGUST 3D-SEPTEMBER 1 








thanks to a group of students here at Notre Dame it has been made possible once again. 
According to Joe Cassidy, di­rector of Student Affairs, these students, who have been very active in a variety of campus activities, felt that the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community was in need of an organization dedicated to sponsoring high­quality performers at reason­able prices-guaranteed to sat­isfy your expectations and more. 
This group, Satisfaction Guaranteed, seeks out per­formers with the potential to "make it big," before they get too expensive. 
Satisfaction Guaranteed is working in conjunction with the Student Activities Board. With the students' ideas and the Board's funds, they are bound to provide great entertainment. 
First up... Craig Karges in his show "The Magic of the Mind." Captivating and intrigu­ing, he is a mentalist and an ESP showman. A master of mind over matter and illusion, Karges stretches the potential of the human minds to amazing limits with no hocus pocus. 
"Craig's a great kickoff," said Cassidy. 
"We only use 10 to 20 per­cent of our minds," explained Karges. "Think ~f the capabili­ties that lie in that 80 to 90 percent of our unused minds." 
Karges believes that "the most incredible, the most fasci­nating computer in the world ... is your mind." He may demon­strate the mind's capabilities, but he dares you to reach for vour full potential because it is 

only limited by your imagina­tion. 
He was awarded the Certified Speaking Professional (CSP) designation by the National Speakers Association, which has only been awarded to less than 10 percent of their mem­bership. 
The National Association of Campus Activities (NACA) also nominated Karges "Campus Entertainer of the Year" and 
"NoveltyNariety Entertainer of the Year." 
Karges has fascinated audi­ences of all ages across the country. 
"Absolutely extraordinary! It 
Spring forward with 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Accent Ed1tor 

bile the rest of South Bend elects to keep their clocks the same even 

when the seasons change, Saint Mary's is scheduled to Fall Forward this weekend. 
For this second annual event, the Student Activities Board (SAB} expanded the roster of activities that began with a pic­nic on Thursday and will end with Club Tuesday on, appro­priately, Tuesday. 
Maureen Lowry, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, said that there will be at least one event each day that will give students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame an excuse to put the books aside. 
"Everyone is so excited in the beginning of the year," Lowry said regarding the timing of Fall Forward. "It will be nice to have things outside while it's still warm." The name of the weekend is a description to "kick off the year" with. Lowry said that SAB hopes the fresh­men take advantage of this op­por\unity to meet new people and upperclassmen come to see old friends and get, or stay, in­volved. 
Last year's program was on a smaller scale and included a luau, which was "a hit!" Even though leis v tributed this w anticipating ar response to Dunes trip. 
Students wh to-five mini-va1 will not leave e ther. Favors a cream sundae~ free deal. 
"We (SAB c1 hers) had thr• year (to plan fl The framewo before the st kept in cont other," Lowr twelve board are involved in 
Organization 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------E~~e~11 ~ 

e 
I 



versity said, "You (Karges) have  
astounded mystified and  
completely baffled our audi­ 
ences. Each of your appear­ 
ances has been to a packed  
house."  
Karges is more than just an  
entertainer; he can prepare his  
presentation to fit any situation.  
He has been known to deliver  
everything from motivational  
shows to sales presentations.  
He insists that he does not  
prearrange anything. If you still  
don't believe him, he has a  
$10,000 offer, payable to char­ 
ity, if you can prove he uses  
stooges or confederates to ac­ 
complish his demonstrations.  
All of the performers sched­ 
uled to appear as part of this  
series are promised to be as  
talented as Karges-Satisfac­ 
tion Guaranteed!  
Some of the other entertain­ 
ers that have been scheduled  
are Tim Settimi and Lynn Tre­ 
fzger.  
Settimi is "a one-man  
vaudeville," and "a nuf on  
wheels!" said Cassidy.  
He was awarded Top Enter­ 
tainer on college campuses in  
1988 and, according to Cassidy,  
"he is still going strong."  
Trefzger is a ventriloquist and  
a comedian. Audience par­ 
ticipation is one of her greatest  
assets, along with her ability to  
kend as he masters matter and illusion -stretching ad-lib during her self-written  
1e Magic of the Mind," is brought to ND by a new shows.  
Entertainment at its best is  
what Satisfaction Guaranteed is  
ies (NACA) also rges "Campus the Year" and y Entertainer of  was, by far, the most outstand­ing and enjoyable entertain­ment we have ever had. Anyone who has missed you (Karges) has missed the best!" said  looking for. You won't be disappointed-that's their guarantee! Craig Karges will be perform­ing this weekend, Saturday,  
ascinated audi­ Sharen Brady, a manager at Beecham Products who saw  August 31, and Sunday, September 1 at Washington  
ges across the  Karges perform at a seminar.  Hall at 8:00 p.m. Dates of up­coming performances will be  
~xtraordinary! It  Dave Tomeo of Clarion Uni- announced.  

Mith Saint Mary's 
though leis will not be dis­factor in being able to puJl ev­tributed this weekend, Lowry is erything together. Bridget Dunn anticipating an especially good and Kathy Gannon can be 
response to the Day at the credited with keeping the cam­Dunes trip. pus informed of the four-day Students who take the nine­event. Lowry praised them for 
to-five mini-vacation on Sunday doing "a terrific job with pub­
will not leave empty-handed, ei­licity. The best recognition will ther. Favors and cups with ice be a fantastic turnout." cream sundaes are part of the Mollv Weiland, commissioner 
free deal. of Club Tuesday, has arranged "We (SAB committee mem­for entertainment on Haggar bers) had three meetings last Terrace to help the weekend 
year (to plan for Fall Forward). atmosphere carry into the The framework was laid out week. Students can look forward to
before the summer, and we 
kept in contact with each more Club Tuesday fun with other," Lowry said. Of the Andrew Cutrefellow's guitar twelve· board members, eight playing on September 17 and 
are involved in the weekend. John Lautrec's hypnotic skills Organization has been a key on October 1. 


Friday, August 30, 1991 

page 12 The Observer 
Are ND students more brain-washed than parents? 

On my last evening in London this summer, the young couple offering me dinner gave me some poems to read out loud to them. I liked tlte poems so well, I brought home the book so I could share them with you. 
The weltanschauung of the author, Roger McGough, a member of the living poets' so­ciety, is as "Carpe diem!" as anything found in Horace. 
His "At Lunchtime. A Story of Love" is embroidery on the theme, "Make peace, not war." 
When the bus stopped sud­denly to avoid/damaging a mother and child in the road, the/young lady in the green hat sitting opposite/was thrown across me, and not being one to/miss an opportunity i started to make love/with all my body. 
At first she resisted saying that iVwas too early in the morning and too soon/ after breakfast and that anyway she found/me repulsive. But when I explained that/ this being a nu­clear age, the world was go­ing/to end at lunchtime, she took off her/ green hat, put her bus ticket in her pocket/and joined the exercise. 
The bus people, and there were many of/them, were shocked and surprised and amused/ and annoyed, but when the word got around/that the world was coming to an end at lunch-/time, they put their pride in their pockets/with· their bus tickets and made love one with/the other. And even the bus conductor, being/older climbed into the cab and struck up/some sort of relationship with the driver. 
That night, on the bus coming home,lwe were all a little em-

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

her son/cut me up into little pieces/& throw away every piece but one 
Let me die a young man's death/not a free from sin tiptoe in/candle wax & waning death/not a curtains drawn by angels borne/ 'what a nice way to go' death 
I don't find the American way of death very appealing. If you wish to know why, look at the nursing homes. Faith promises us that in the sweet bye-and­bye, there will be pie in the sky; but I dislike the orthodoxy that makes doubt a sin. All of us will be flying blind when we die; maybe dying is easier than it looks. 
I don't want cheerleaders mobbing the sick bed,smothering me with assur­ances that Jesus is Resurrec­tion and the Life; I hope to make my own act of faith. 
The belief that the dead will rise again is usually arrived at after a struggle with darkness. Christian optimism isn't a form of grace under pressure that comes with the territory. 
The consolations of religion shouldn't be used as a cos­metic, hiding the sadness of death. Dylan Thomas was right to tell his father: "Do not go gen tie into that good night./Rage, rage against the dying of the light." 
As Christians, we need space to figure things out. That's why guidance counsellors should be gentle in their approach, like seeing-eye dogs. 
Does wine make a bloke merry? The top of the bottle does; after that, the euphoria goes down hill fast. Golden girls, and the lads that drink with them, should figure that out from experience, with a lit­tle help from their friends. 
As a religious, aged 65, know the songs of love are not for me; and I have no regrets. I'm young enough to remember that a thing of beauty can be a joy until morning; and old enough to have compassion on the youngsters who haven't dis­cover that there will be a to­morrow, and when it comes, it could find them feeling shabby, like the hotel room they wake up in. 
But those of us who defend rules should tread lightly when we intrude on other people's freedom, like angels and minis­ters offering the divine assis­tance. 
Catholic education used to mean that students were brain­washed in Catholic ways that would help them save their souls. Shouldn't they be taught to see truth as though it were the light at the end of the road leading them home, no matter how often they have left the reservation. 
Some of the announcements I see posted-of seminars on date rape, Alcoholism, drug use, and AIDS-prevention_ look ominous. In my day, we were just warned that eating meat on Friday, missing Mass on Sunday, bad thoughts and actions. alone or with another, and mixed marriage would put our mortal souls in danger. 
1-iow can the gurus of the brave new world deliver their grim warnings, without making students feel that they are more brain-washed as Catholics than their parents were? 
barrassed, especially me/and the young lady in the green hat, and we/all started to say in dif­ferent ways how hasty/and foolish we had been. But then, always/having been a bit of a lad, i stood upland said it was a pity that the world didn't nearly/end every lunchtime and that we could always/pretend. And then it happened. 
Quick as a crash we all changed partners/and soon the bus was aquiver with white/moth ball bodies doing naughty things./And the next day/And every day/In every bus/In every streeVIn every town/ In every country/people pretended that the world was coming/to an end at lunchtime. It still hasn't.!Although in a way it has. 
I like the poem for saying "what oft was thought, but ne'er so well expressed," which is Alexander Pope's definition of wit. Using it is my way of telling you that I'm bored to death with solemn high Catholics who insist on calling the world to moral attention. 
One of the charms of Judaism is the willingness of old rabbis to take even the Master of the Universe with a grain of salt at times when He seems overbear­ing. Catholic education shouldn't be wasted on bright young scholars who have every­thing going for them but a sense of humor, because chances are good that they'll grow up to be zealots pontifi­cating publicly on faith and morals. 

I've been accused of being in­sensitive to the wounds which ruin lives when I tell people who attend Mass on a rainy day, "Go home and get out of your wet things, into a dry Martini." 
To tell the truth, I'm not in­sensitive to anything, especially if it's a bad habit. Like Toots Shor, feel sorry for people who don't drink. They know when they wake up in the morrring, that's the best they are going to feel all day. 
McGough's other best poem is titled "Let Me Die a Young Man's Death" 
Let me die a young man's death/not a clean & in be­tween/the sheets holy water death/not a famous-last words/peaceful out of breath death 
When I'm 73/& in constant good humor/may I be mown down at dawn/by a bright red sports car/on my way home/from an all night party 
Or when I'm 91/with silver hair/&sitting in a barber's chair/may rival gangsters/with ham-fisted tommy-guns burst in/& give me a short back & in­sides. 
Or when I'm 104/& banned from the pubs may my mistress/catching me in bed with her daughter/& fearing for 
JUNIORS 
Interested in organizing our most important weekend of the year??? 
Applications for JPW CHAIRPERSON are available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
Experience not necessary, but initiative is. 
' 

Curious? Pic:k up an applic:ation today. 
DEADLINE: 5:00 Monday, Sept. 2nd. 

------------------------~----------------~----~-------------.--------------------------------------------~-------------· ~-·-­
Friday, August 30, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Pete Sampras eager to achieve fortune without fame 
NEW YORK (AP) -It is all so easy for Pete Sampras at the 
U.S. Open, and all so hard for him off the court. 
Give him fortune without fame, respect without respon­sibilities, and he'll be happy to hit tennis balls forever. 
Sampras, a rnanchild at 20, is caught between his desires and his needs, wanting to make the 
U.S. Open his "home away from horne" as Boris Becker has done with Wimbledon, but feel­ing he must escape the inevitable celebrity. 
He barely strained himself on the court to reach the third round Thursday, then looked so uncomfortable talking about it, as if every question were a vol­ley to his throat. 
On a day when fans and play­ers were collapsing in the heat and humidity, Sampras breezed in the shade of the grandstand when his opponent, Wayne Ferreira, quit with a sprained ankle while losing 6-1, 6-2, 2-2. The abbreviated match lasted about as long as Sampras' first­rounder, a straight-sets romp in which he yielded only five games to Christo van Rensburg. 
Sampras, the youngest U.S. Open men's winner in history last year, seems poised to go for the title again. His 125-mph serves are kissing the corners as they did a year ago, his vol­leys are crisp and his legs don't hurt the way they did most of the year after his victory here last September. 
"My game is as high as it has been in a long time," Sampras said. "I played probably as well as I could have played in the first two sets today." 
Sampras is peaking at just the right time, coming in here after winning two tournaments this summer following many months of injuries and self-doubt. 
The first few months after winning the Open last year, he said, were ..just utter chaos" as he bounced from exhibition to exhibition, talk show to talk show and one interview and re­ception after another. 
"Maybe it was a bit my fault," he said. "Maybe I didn't control the situation the way I should have. But you live and learn about these things. If I had to do it over again, I would do it differently. I don't think I would have done the exhibitions and talk shows, which I was committed to. I would have taken a two-to three-week va­cation and let it sink in. 
"I don't enjoy doing talk shows. I was a little nervous 
when I went to see Johnny (Carson). But I'll have a tape to show the grandkids. I don't like to be the center of attention. I don't like to be famous." 
Yet, he is caught in a contra­diction here in one of the media capitals of the world, insisting that he would "like to make the 
U.S. Open be my home away from home. You know, like they talk about Becker at Centre Court at Wimbledon being his home. This is a good tourna­ment to be my home." 
Becker wouldn't mind making the U.S. Open his second home. He won here in 1989 and is looking strong this year, reaching the third round with a 6-0, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 victory over Alexander Volkov. 
Volkov upset Stefan Edberg in the first round last year, but couldn't cope with Becker's 
power or quickness to the net. 
"I could sense after I won the 
tiebreaker that the match was 
over," Becker said. In truth, it 
looked as if Volkov just quit 
trying in.. the final set, either 
overwhelmed by Becker or the 
heat, or both. 
Ferreira was one of four 
players who quit in midmatch 
for different reasons. Courtside 
temperatures over 100 degrees 
took a toll on Sweden's 
Christian Bergstrom, who re­tired because of heat exhaus­. tion in a match against France's 
Arnaud Boetsch. 
Aaron Krickstein, who upset Andre Agassi in the first round, reached the third round when Jaime Yzaga suffered a strained right knee while losing 6-1, 3-6, 6-1, 3-2. 
The Observer accepts dasslfieds every business day from 10 a.m. 10 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame otfice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, induding all spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!!!!!!!! 25% off list price 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard 
OFF CAMPUS IH FOOTBALL SIGNUP CALL STEVE 233-3882 
GARAGE SALE 2010 Beverly Place SATURDAY, August 31st. 8:00-5:00. 
LOST/FOUND 

FOUND: POCKET CALCULATOR IN MAIN BUILDING. CALL LYN 239-7367. 
LOST: GOLD I.D. BRACELET REWARD;SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL LISA 4838 #352 SIEGFRIED 
WANTED 

BABYSITTER NEEDED N.D. HOME GAMES-OTHER MISC. TIMES AVAILABLE. $4+/HR. 
234-2354. 
WArfrEDBIKE Call JIM 2285 
1wo coucmess rresnman neeo a couch. II you can help us, please call either Sally or Linda at X1288. 
FOR RENT 
I 

2 BEDROOM ON NO AVE.FURNISHED.272-6306 
HOME AWAY FROM HOME! 2 ROOMS TO RENT, $200/MO., $200 DEP. KITCHEN, LAUNDRY FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 232-2794. 
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only $69.95. VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO NO. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. Utilities paid. Call255-9664. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
THE PARTY starts here. Excellent 5 bedroom home. Semi-furnished. Beach V-ball court, private parking lot. Next to other student houses. 234-3831 or 288-5653. Sale area. 
3 BEDROOM HOME 
913 LAWRENCE 
$500 DEPOSIT, $555 MONTH 
232-3616 

4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, 
washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 
N. St. Peter. 233-9947. 
ROOM FOR RENT-LARGE HOME 
2.5 BLKS FROM NO, $290 MO. UTIL INCL. 234-0873. 
NEAR NO-Quaint furnished apts. 
1 bedrm $260, 755 South Bend 
Ave. 

2 bedrm $360, 607 E. Corby. 
dep. ref. 1-800-582-9320 
FOR RENT -605 N. St. Peter, 5 Bedroom, 1.5 bath, furnished for 3­
6. $135 moJeach +share utilities. Elmer 288-8341, 288-3942. 
B & B available near NO on football weekends. 271·0989. 
House lor rent, one block from NO, professors, staff, or graduates, 650 month, 234-1714 
Room for rent in new home, 
located in Granger, 7 minutes 
from campus. $350 per month, 
male graduate student 
preferred. Please call Andy 
or leave message at 271­
8162. 

Student rentals now available. Ideal for graduate students with family. Call232-5411 or 234-0379. 
FOR SALE 
I 

Couch and furniture for sale. 
287-0060 

PROFESSIONALLY BUILT 
STUDENT LOFT $50. 
REFRIGERATOR $40. 
289-8404. 

Peavey 130 wan bass amp $275 
X1857 

Rug, neutral 6x8, $50; Electronic typewriter, $65; dinette table, $50; maple rocking chair, $40; 239-7160, 287-6714. 
MATCHING SET: SOFA, CHAIR, ROCKER, COFFEE TABLE, END TABLE. $125. CALL CAROL, 272­3273 OR 277-8000. 
2 TEN SPEED BIKES.272-6306 
SCHWINN LaTour 23" bike. TOP 
condition. $225 or best. 234-9485, 
288-0201. 

NO MOM selling drapes, rugs, bedspreads, table & benches, sheets, towels, lamps, dothing. Fr. & Sat. 9-4 pm. At St. Rd. 23 and Grape, go north on Grape to Brandon Ln. Watch lor green & white balloons. 
FOR SALE­
83 TOYOTA COROLLA 
new brakes, transmission, 
and shocks. 85,000 miles. 
Call 233-2588. 
Used Computers: Mac Plus12dd/pr Apple llgs wtworl<s laptop 386 w/hd Man (x1778) or John (277-2176) 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA OR STD TIXS All HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 
1 TICKET NEEDED FOR INDIANA GAME. CALL COLLEEN AT 4244. 
WANTED: SENIOR TICKET APPLICATION. YOU WILL PROFIT $80. CALL 289-4914. 
NEEDED BAD: 2 or 4 GA's for the Indiana game. Will pay top dollar!!! Call #3372 ask lor Greg. 
MUST HAVE INDIANA TIXIIII Call Steve x2366 
I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY CALL BILL -4186 
Will trade 2 Mich St. GAs lor 2 IU GAs. Bill x4108 
I need I.U. &P.U. TIX Jason x2030 

Need 2 Mich. St. GA's Call Mike at #1694 
NEED 1 GA TIX FOR INDIANA GAME. CALL SHANE X1655 
4 season ftbl. tix 4 sale. 272-7034 after 6 pm. All wknd. 
Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff x3301 
Need TWO INDIANA GAs. Call Lynn at x4940. 
NEEDED: 71U tix. Call Ann x2808. 
NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela x2796 
Needed: 4 G.A.s lor Mich. St. Call David at 277-7767 
GRAD STUDENTS, MBA'S, LAW, ANYONE: '87 ALUM SEEKS YOUR FOOTBALL TIX (OR TICKET APPLICATION!) I'LL MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE.$$$ THANK YOU. CALL COLLEEN AT 256-5099 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE PLEASE. 
NO GRAD NEEDS TWO PITT TICKETS. CALL 4034. 
I need 1 Mich St GA Call Bill x4274 

NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. Please help east coast double domer bring his family to an Irish victory. Call Sam at (201) 334-3804. 
NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­612-227-7577. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO HOME FOOTBAll GAME. CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL271-1371. 
IU TICKETS? I need them in a big way. Call283-4098. 
NEED: 8 GA's for Indiana game Will pay big$$$!! Call X1076 
NEEDED: 2 GA's for IU game call 272-8735 ask lor Shannon 
$$$$$$$$ 
I WArfr TO GIVE YOU MONEY... for your IU tix. Need GA's or students. x1236 
$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED TO BUY: student ticket applications. x1236 
if you're not using your ftbl tix appl. 111 buy it! fred@ 2322 
Need G.A.s for Indiana and Michigan St. Money no object. Call Ron x2157 
NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pin game. Parents will pay well! Call Tim@ X4063 
NEED 1 St. TX. for MICH St. CAN TRADE 1PITT OR PURCHASE. Kathy x3958 
Please help. Need 2 tickets to IU game. GA or student or both. Call Ann 4011. 
I NEED GA TIX: 4 INDIANA; 6 MICHIGAN STATE. DAVE x283­1545 
I NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC. CALL ANNA x284-5432. 
I'M BUYING I.U. STUD. TIX Call John x3660 
NEEDED DESPERATELY: 
STUDENT TICKET APPLICATION for recent grad. Make lots of $$$1 Call x4258. 
Desperately seeking USC or Tenn. GA's. Brian x3883 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME GAMEl CALL MIKE 1655 
NEED GAs lor Mich. St., U.S.C., Navy, & Tenn. Call Tony at 277-6048. 
Need 2 IU GA's for family visit. Call Mick at 12133 
HAVE TICKETS TO ALL GAMES. NEED TO TRADE FOR USC. CALL MIKE POHLEN AT 800-444-3810. 
LET ME BUY YOUR STUDENT TICKET BOOK CALL JIM AT 271-8311 AND LET'S MAKE A DEAL. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 


USC GA's WANTED II I Dad's dying to see NO play before I graduate. PLEASE CALL x4227 
Will trade 4 great Mich St. G.A.'s for 4 USC G.A's. #1752 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TWO GA'S FOR STANFORD-HELP MY TENDER LOVING PARENTS SEE THEIR FIRST AND ONLY NO GAME­DON'T DEPRIVE THEM OF THIS GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY (NO PUN INTENDED) CALL X4970 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PERSONAL 

I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
ATTErfriON: STUDENTS! $5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 Walk ins 
SENIORS! Sf.NIORSI REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TODAY, TOMORROW, SEPTEMBER 3, SEPTEMBER 4. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TOOAY, TOMORROW, SEPTEMBER 3, SEPTEMBER 4. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
Attention 1990-91 A. Weigert CORE CLASS: it's true, the reunions have begun. We're firing up for another softball game this FRIDAY afternoon, same place as last year. And if we're really nice, Max will let us chow at her off-campus pad afterward. Feel free to bring others-the more the merrier. Call Rafl or Monica for details. SEE YOU THERE! 
THE METHA-TONES ... LIVE! A dose of lou Reed and a lot more! Sat. Aug 31 CLUB 23 
Want to learn to dance?l Call DANCE DIMENSIONS... 
new dance studio downtown Mishawaka. Classes in tap, jazz, ballroom. 
Call255-4611. 

Dear Ellen, 
Happy 20th Birthday to my little sister. Its going to be great to be here with you the next two years. Have a great Junior year! 
Love, Michael 

Wish Dave Walters a happy 19th birthday! 
AMY sorry do you love? 
N.O.S.P. We're back 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
Interested in being a OJ?II Student Activities is accepting applications lor DJs lor Theodore's. Pick up applications at 315 LaFortune. 
Lou Reed's favorite NO band THE META-TONES ..• LIVE! Club 23 Sat. Aug 31. 
LOST TO GRADUATION...guitarists/bassist from BONE FOREST. We have a gig, now all we need is a band. Call Bryan x3348 or Chris 272-3739. 
Pookie, I love you!! IIIII! please don't Ieaveii IIIII!! love, Louis 
lntervarsity Christian Fellowship's KICKOFF PICNIC Sun., Sept. 1st at 3 p.m. Everyone welcome. Meet at main circle lor rides. Questions, call Sean at 277-4436 or Kevin at X1417. 
Dante Andre Diamente will be 21 tomorrow! Close your doors, wear plastic, and girls, wear your belts because Dante is a monster. Happy birthday, Dante. 
Love, your manly roomies 
Walsh FRESHMAN, hope you're enjoying Walsh-there's much more to come!! 
Michelle, Yvonne, and liz, come join us for slushies any time!! Having a great tme-love, the quad (Buffy, Buxom, Bubbles, Bunny) 
Rich­it's great to be back-this weekend will be out of control-hope you've enjoyed our study break happy hoursllll See you in and hour. love, me 

Friday,August30, 1991

SCOREBOARD
page 14 

AL STANDINGS NL STANDINGS 
U.S. OPEN RESULTS NFL DRAFT SIGNINGS 
...................................... forward, to a two-year oontract. 
DETROIT PISTONS-Signed John Salley, 
C)C)<:)e)()()<:)C)()e)C)C)
FOOTBALL Netlonel Football L..gue BUFFALO BILL8-Signed Henry Jones, defensive 
back. 


NOTRE DAME
CINCINNATI BENGALs-Signed Carl Zander, 
linebacker. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Mike Bell, defenetve end, and Todd McNair, running back. Signed Mike Perez, quarterback, to the practice roeter. Placed Bill Jones. running back, on the 
Free

VIDEO
reserve-auspended Rst. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed J.B. Brown, 
Popcorn
cornerback, and Ferrell Edmunds, tight end. 

<:)C)C)e)e)<:)<:)<:)e)e)e)C)
NEW YORK JETS-Signed Reggie Moore and James Bradley, wide receivers, and Marll Hayes, 
& 
ollenelve lal:kle, to the pradioe roster. 

Proudly Presents It's
NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Mark Ingram, wide 
Membership
receMit; Dave Meggett, running back; and William Roberts, guard, to two-year oontracts, and Murray Garrett, defensive lneman, and Steve Clalk, tight 
Sales 

end, to the practice squad. PHILADELPHIA EAGLE8-Signed Jerome Brown, 
(jrand Opening 
defensive tackle, to lhree one-year contracts. 

HOCKEY Nedonal Hockey Leegue HARTFORD WHALERS-Signed Adam Burt, defenaeman. to a mulllyear contrad. &at Cout Hodley Leegue RICHMOND RENEGADES-Named Dave Allison 
Friday, August 30th 
coach. 
TRA~K AND FIELD 

·V 
INTERNATIONAL AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION-Suspended Delisa Floyd, 800 
4:00 to 11:00 p.m. 
meters runner, for lour years lor testing pos~ive lo1 ! amphetamines at the World Track and Fielc 
I 
Charr1)1onsh~s. 

I 
COLLEGE CALIFORNIA, PENNSYLVANIA-Named Tomt Puoc~ athletic director. 
I j
: t 
DREW-Annouced the resignation o1 Dick Szlasa
I i
r . athletic director. Na,...d Maureen Horan-Pease and Vernon Mummert interim athletic co-directors. EAST STROUDSBURG STATE-Named Rose 
Located in the Basement of LaFortune
Wahl Haler, women'• basketball coach. FRANKLIN & MARSHALL-Named Karl Purnell man's tennis ooach. 
,. 
U.S. Open Reaulta NEW YORK (AP)-Results Thursday of the $7.25 million U.S. Open at the National Tennis Center (seedings In parentheses): 
INn Singlei 
•

Second Round JimmY Connors, Santa Ynez, Calif., del. Michiel Schapers, Netherlands, 6 -2, 6-3, 6-2. Todd Martin, Lansing, Mich., del. Danny Sapsford, Britain, 6-2, 6\-3, 3-6, 4-6, 6-2. Jim Courier (4), Dade City, Fla., del. Jimmy Arias, BlAfalo, N.Y., 6-3, 6-2, 6-Q. David Wheaton (11). Deephaven, Minn .. del. Horst Skoff, Austria. 6-1, 6-2, 6-2. Amaud Boetach, France, del. Christian Bergstrom, Sweden, 6-2,\6-3, 2·1, retired. 
Francisco Clavet, Spain, del. GuUiaume Raoux, F ranee, 6-1, 6-1, 6-4. eart-u-Steeb, Garmany, del. Grant Stafford, 

South Africa, 6-0, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1. Boris Bedcar (1), Germany, del. Alexander Volkov, Soviet Union, 6-0,7-6 (7-4), 6-1. 
Pale Sllfr1)!'as (6), Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., del. Wayne Ferreira, South Africa, 6­1, 6-2, 2-2, retired. 
Emilio Sanchez (14), Spain, del. Andrew Castle, Britain, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. Anders Jarryd, Swvdan, del. Thierry Chan-pion, France, 7-5, 6-2, 1-1, retired. 
Aaron Krlcksteln. Grosse Pointe, Mich., del. Jaime Yzaga. Peru, 6-1, 3-6, 6-1, 3-2, retired. 
Wally Maaur, AustraHa. del. Michael Joyce, Los Angeles, 8-4, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. Stephane Simian, France, del. Kevin Curren, Austin, Texas, 6-3. 6-7 (4-7), 7-6 (7­
4), 6-4.

I 
Karel Novacek (10), Czechoslovakia, del. Nuno

\ 
Marques, Portugal, 6-7 (1·7), 7-6 (7·

l 5), 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. 
't Paul Harrhula, Netherllands, def. Andrei Chesnokov, Soviet Union, 6-1,4-6, 6­2, 7-8 (7·2). 
Women Singlea Second Round Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (4), Spain, def. Kristin 
Godrldge, Australia, 6-1, 6-1. Steffl Graf (1 ), Germany, del. Catherine Mathes, France, 6-0, 6-0. Manlna Navratllova (6), Aspen, Colo., del. Debbie Graham. Fountain VaHey, Cal~ .• 6-1, 

8-4. Conchita Martinez (8), Spain, del. Yayuk Basuki, 1 ndonesla, 6-3, 6-4. 
Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere (10), Swhzerland, del. Andrea Strnadova. Czechoslovakia, 7-5,6-2. 
Zlna Garriaon (12), Houston, def. Sandra Cecchini, I taly,6-1,6-1. Eva Svlglerova. Czechoelovakla. del. Catarina 
Llndqvlat, Sweden, 6-2, 6-2. Patty Fendk:k, Sacramento, CaiW., del. Karina Habsudova. Czechoslovakia, 6-2, 6­
3. 
Mary Pierce, T Clf11l8, Fla., def. Lori McNeil, Houston, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (8-6). 
Nathalie Herreman, France, del. Elena Brioukhovets, Soviet Union, 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7·5). 
Kilrberly Po, Rolling H~la, Calil.;def. Anne Smith, Dallas, 6-2, 6-4. Natalia Zwreva, Soviet Union, del. Anke Huber (16), Germany, 6-2, 6-4. 
Pam Shriver, Lutherville, Md., del. Magdalena Maleeva, Bulgaria, 6-7 (1Q-12), 6-1, 6-2. 
Barbara Rittner, Germany, del. Julie Halard, France, 6-2, 8-0. Judith Wiesner, Auatria, del. Shaun Stafford, GalnesviHe, Fla., 3-6, 6-t, 6-4. Florencla Labat, Argentina. del. Amy Frazier, Rodhester Hills, Mich., 2-6, 7-5, 6-2. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
Nallonel Leegue 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Activated Sid Bream, first 
baseman, from the 15-day disabled list. Sent 

Randy St. Claire, phcher, outright to Richmond of 
the lmernatlonal League. 

CINCINNATI REDS-Fired Ray Rippelmeyer, 
assistant director ol player development. 

NEW YORK METS-Recalled Anthony Young, 
pitcher, from Tidewater ol the International League. 

Placed Chuck Carr, outfielder, on lhe 15-day 
disabled list. 
BASKETBALL 
Netlonel B..ketbell Aeeocletlon 

All TlmH EDT
NFL Firat-Round Signing• All TlmH EDT 
1. 
Dallas (from New England). Russell Maryland, dl, Miami, Fla. 5 yean;, $8 minion (indude& $3 milion signing bonus). 

2. 
Cleveland, Eric Turner, s, UCLA. 4 years. $6 miltion ($3.15 million signing bonus, $550,000 In ' 91, $600,000 In '92, $700,000 in '93, $1 million in '94). 

3. 
Atlanta. Bruce Pickens, cb, Nebraska. 


4. 
Denver, Mike Croel,lb, Nebraska series of one-year contracts; terms undisclosed. 

5. 
Loe Angeles Rams. Todd Lyght, cb, Notre Deme; 5 years, $5.6 milrlon. 


8. Phoenix, Ertc SWann, dl, no oollege. 5 years, $4.05 million ($1.65 mi"ion signing bonus. $320,000 In '9t, $360,000 In '92, $475,000 in '93, $550,000 In '94, $650,000 in '95). 
7. 
T~ Bay, Charles McRae, ot, Tennessee. 5 years, reported $4.7 million. including a signing bonus ol more than $2 mil~on. 

8. 
PhHad~hla (from Green Bay), Antone Davis, ot, Tennessee; signed interim one-year oontract. Final oontract atill being negotiated. 

9. 
San Diego, Stanley Richard, cb, Texas. Agreed to undisdosed terms. 

10. 
Detroit, Herman Moore, wr, Virginia. 3 years, $2.4 million 

11. 
New England, Pat Harlow, ot, Southern Cal. 3 yean;, $2.21 million (with $1.3 mHiion signing bonus, $280,000 in '91, $300,000 in '92, $330,000 in '93). 

12. 
Dallas, Alvin Harper, wr, Tennessee. 3 years, $2.15 rrillion. 

13. 
Atlanta (from Indianapolis), Mke Prhchard, wr, Colorado. 3 years, $2.3 million. 

14. 
New England (from New Orleans through Dallas), Leonard Russell, rb, Arizona State. 3 years, $2.3 rrillion. 

15. 
Pltaburgh, Huey Richardson, b, Florida 4 years, reported $2.8 million. 

16. 
Seattle, Dan McGwtre, qb, San Diego State. 3 years, $3.35 million ($1.15 m~lion signning bonus, $400,000 In '91, $800,000 in '92, $1 minion in '93). 

17. 
Washington (from Houslon through New England and Dallas), Bobby Wilson, dt, Michigan Slate. 3 years, $2.19 million ($1 million signing bonus. $300,000 In '91, $350,000 in '92, $540,000 in '93). 

18. 
Clncinnat~ Allred WIHiams, lb, Colorado. 3 years, 2.235 million ($1 rnilion signing bonus). 

19. 
Green Bay (from Philadelphia), Vincent Clark, db, Ohio State. Agreed to a lour-year oontract, t erms not disclosed. 

20. 
Detroit (!rom Washington via Dallas), Kelvin Prhchen. dt, MississpPi. 3 years, $2.1 million. 

21. 
Kansas Chy, Harvey Williams, rb, LSU. 4 years, terms undisdosed. 

22. 
Chicago, Stan Thomas, at, Texas. 5 years, $3.25 million. 

23. 
Miami, Randal HIM, wr, Miami, Fla. 3 years, $2.1 million. 

24. 
Los Angeles Raiders, Todd Marinovich, qb, Southern Cal. 3 years, $2.25 million. 

25. 
San Francisco, Ted Washington, dl, Louisville. 4 years, $3 million (incudes $900,000 signing bonua). 

26. 
Buffalo, Henry Jones, a, IUinois; reported 4 years, $600,000 a year, induding a $900,000 signing bonus. 

27. 
New YOlk Giants, Jarrod Bunch,lb, Michigan. 3 years, $2.1 million (indudes $900,000 signing bonus). 


ALLEADERS · · 
BASEBALL'S TOP TEN 
By The A..oclated Preu 
AMERICAN LEAGUE G AB R H Pel. 

Franoo lex 114 460 86 156 .339 
Palmelro Tax 125 507 97 170 .335 
Boggs Bin 117 444 76 148 .333 
Griffey Jr Sea 122 432 62 143 .331 
Mol•or Mil 123 525 103 174 .331 
Puckett Min t24 502 75 164 .327 
Tartabull KC 102 388 66 126 .325 
CRipken Bit 127 506 82 164 .324 
Thomas Chi 127 459 86 148 .322 
GreenweN Ban 122 459 61 142 .309 
Horne Rune Fielder, Detroit, 36; Canseco, Oakland, 35; Carter, Toronto, 29; Thomas, Chicago, 26; 

JuGonzalez, Texas, 26; CDavis, Minnesota, 26; CRipken, Baltimore, 26. 
Rune Betted In 

Fielder, Detroh, 111; Thomas, Chicago, 96; Canseco, Oakland, 94; JuGonzalez, Texas, 
93; Carter, Toronto, 91; Sierra. Texas, 90; Joyner, California, 86. 
Pitching (11 Dec:lalone) 

Henneman, Detroh, 9-2, .818; Klink, Oakland, 9-3, .750; Erickson, Minnesota. 16·6, .727; 
Hesketh, Boston, 8·3, .727; Stonlemyre, Toronto, 12·5, .706; Finley, Cai~ornia, 16-7, .696; Gullickson, 
Detro", 16-7, .696. 


The Observer has positions for Day Editor and typists. Contact Dannika Simpson at 239-7471 or X4233 
NATIONAL LEAGUEAMERICAN LEAGUE E..t Dlvialon&at Divielon w L Pet. GBw L Pet GB 
Plltaburgh 74 51 .592
Toronto 72 57 .558 
81. Louis 69 57 .548 5112
Detroit 69 59 .539 2112 
Chicago 65 62 .512 10
Boston 64 63 .504 7 
New YOlk 61 66 .480 14
Milwaukee 60 67 .472 11 
Philadelphia 61 66 .480 14
New Yolk 57 69 .452 13 1/2 
Momreal 50 76 .397 24 1/2
Baltimore 52 75 .409 19 
Weal Dlvlaion
Cleveland 42 85 .331 29 
W L Pet. GBWeat Dlvlalon 

Atlanta 71 56 .559
w L Pet GB 

Loa Angeles 69 57 .548 1 112
Minnesota 77 52 .597 
Clncinnatl 64 63 .504 7
Oakland 69 60 .535 8 
San Diego 63 65 .492 8 1/2 
Chicago 68 60 .531 8112 
San Francisco 60 67 .472 11
Kansas City 66 60 .524 91/2 
Houston 53 74 .417 18
Texas 66 60 .524 91/2 61 .523 9112 Wedneadey'e G•-•
Seattle 67 Cincinnati 11, Montreal 3
California 63 64 .496 13 Philadelphia 11, Houston 1 0, 1 0 innings Atlanta 3, New York 1
Wedneaday'a Gemee San Diego 2, Sl. Louis 1
Oakland 9, Boston 3 Chicago 8, San Francisco 6 
California 1, Detroll 0 NewYOik5, Texas 1 Pittsburgh 6, Loe Angeles 4 
Toromo 3, Bahlmore 0 Thuredey'a Game•
Minnesota 4, Cleveland 2 Late Game Not Included
Kansas City 7, Chicago 6 Chicago 5, San Francisco 4 
Seattle 7, Milwaukee 6 Cincinnati 5, Montreal 4 Houston 5, PhUadelphla 1
Thuredey'e Game• 
Atlanta 2, New York 0 Toronto 8, New York 2 San Diego 1, Sl. Louis 0 Chicago 7, Cleveland 2 Pittsburgh at Los Angeles (n) Only games scheduled 
Friday'• Gernee
Frlcley'a GemH New York (Cone 11·10) at Cincinnati (Myers 5-11), Toronto (Siottlemyre 12-5) at New York 
7:35p.m.
(Sanderson 13-8), 7:30p.m. 
Houston (Deshaies 4-11) at Montreal (Gardner 7­
Cleveland (Nagy 7-11) at Chicago (Fernandez 6­9), 7:35 p.m. 
11), 8:05p.m. 
Atlanta (Avery 13-8) at PhHadelphia (Greene 9-5), 
Baltimore (Milackl 7·7) at Minnesota (Edens Q-0), 7:35p.m.
8:05p.m. 
Pittsburgh (Smiley 15-8) at San Diego
California (McCaskiU 1Q-16) at Milwaukee (Rasrnusaen 4-10), 10:05 p.m. 
(Wegman 9-6), 8:35 p.m. Kansas City (Boddk:ker 11-8) at Texas (Ryan 8-6), 
Chicago (D.Jadlson 1-3) at Los Angeles (Belcher 8-8), 10:35 p.m. 
8:35p.m. 
81. Louis (Cormier 2·1) at San Francisco (Black 9­
Detroit (Tanana 11·8) at oakland (Darling 3-1). 13), 10:35 p.m. 
10:35 p.m. 
Beeton (Hesketh 8-3) at Seattle (Hanson 7·6), Saturdey'a Gemea
10:35 p.m. 
81. Louis at San Francisco, 3:35p.m. New York at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. 
Saturday'• Game• 
Houslon at Montreal, 7:35p.m.
Toronto at New York, 1:30 p.m. Atlanta at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m.
Detroit at Oakland, 4:05p.m. Pittsburgh • San Diego, 10:05 p.m. 
Cleveland at Chicago, 7:05 p.m. Chicago • Loe Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Callornla at Milwaukee, 8:05 p.m. 
Sundey'e Gemee
Balimore at Minnesota. 8:05 p.m. 
Houston at Montreal, 1 :35 p.m. 
Kansas City at Texas, 8:35p.m. Atlanta at Philadelphia, 1:35 p.m. 
Boston at Seanle, 10:05 p.m. New York at Cincinnati, 2:15p.m. 
Chicago at Loe Angeles, 4:05 p.m.
Suncley'e Gamee S1. Louill at San Francisco, 4:05p.m.
Toronto at New York, 1:30 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at San Diego, 8:05 p.m.
Bdimore at Minnesota. 2:05 p.m. Cleveland at Chicago, 2:35 p.m. Callornia at Milwaukee, 2:35 p.m. Kansas City at Texas, 3:05 p.m. Detroit at Oakland, 4:05p.m. 
1.1.1 
l-It) 
-~~~:r 
~Zat 
~"' ~ ''A BOLDLY IMAGINED NEW COMEDY!' 
..... -au..! Sdidol. TIME ~I I 
--o "RIOTOUSLY FUNNY!' 
0 = }riCnio, SIXTY SECtW ~
-

·::~ ~ 
~ L.-ca 
"A WINNER!

.Y r-"C
c: ... 
ROMANTIC AND 
FUNNY."

e._.= 
--~IQ(.tv 

Ecc,~
0 
VI 
"A HEAVENlY COMEDY!' 

C) -I'IIC6o.~TV 
0 "C 

TM. FIIIIII.T TRUE •TOIIIIIY 
OP' WHAT HAr,.EN. AFTiflt YOU 0111

F=! =c "BRILLIANTLY 
8~ca ~~~~ ALBERT BROOKS MERYL STREEP 
~L 
.u0 1.1.1 ... -""'""~o DEFENDING
.l "' 

Z ~ THUMBSUP!" 
-.ut•!IDT

zu: YoUR LIFE 
RIP TORN LEE GRANT BUCK HENRY
-
u 
~=::;;;;;;::;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-. 

Friday, August 30, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Bubka, Foster win gold medals at World Championships 
TOKYO (AP) -Sergei Bubka Floyd, reached Thursday in 90 minutes before the like the Soviet, he set a The Athletics Congress, the didn't know if he could win, and Houston. "Every supplement, competition and another late in championship record. sport's governing body in the Greg Foster didn't know if he every vitamin, we always called the competition. Both he and Pierce were United States. For minor did win. the Olympic committee number After clearing his first attempt timed in 13.06 seconds, but amphetamines, the ban is three 
But with one last leap and one to make sure it wasn't on the at 18-8 1/4, he passed until 19-Foster outleaned him and was months. last lean, both had gold medals banned list." 4 1/4. He missed his first try at declared the winner. Pierce Pettigrew, a senior at St. for the third straight time at the It was not disclosed what type that height, then passed, and asked for an official review Augustine's College in Raleigh, World Track and Field of amphetamine Floyd tested missed again in his first shot at before conceding. N.C., and the 1989 and 1991 Championships. positive for. the next height, 19-6 1/4. "I couldn't tell who won," U.S. champion, scored the 
Foster edged Jack Pierce in "How can they tell someone At that point, he was sixth. Pierce said. "I thought it was a biggest victory of his career in the 110-meter high hurdles on they're banned but they can't And had he been unsuccessful photo finish. It looked dead the 400, clocking 44.57, just Thursday, while an ailing tell them why?" Floyd asked. on his next attempt, he would even." ahead of Britain's Roger Black Bubka of the Soviet Union Bubka, meanwhile, has been have finished there and Istvan "I didn't think I had won," and American Danny Everett. soared 19 feet, 6 1/4 inches for battling his emotions over the Bagyula of Hungary would have Foster said. "When I looked up Lewis, already the winner of a dramatic victory in the pole political tension in the Soviet won. But just as he did in the at the scoreboard, I wasn't sure the 100-meter dash in a world­vault. Union as well as injuries to both '88 Olympics, the world record who had won. record 9.86 and winner of 
It was a bittersweet day for heels. holder won on his final jump, "This was definitely the best, seven gold medals in seven the Americans, though. "The first thing is we have to clearing 19-6 1/4 and breaking the toughest, of the three titles." world championship events, -Antonio Pettigrew won the work, whether under capitalism the championship record of 19-While Foster's career is still served notice that he was on 400 meters. or socialism," said Bubka, a 2 114 he set in 1987. prospering, Floyd's probably is target for another gold by 
-Carl Lewis prepped for native of the Ukraine, one of "Today's victory was very over. leaping 28-1 in the long jump Friday's long jump final with seven Soviet Republics to hard for me," Bubka said. "My She became the first athlete qualifying. the best mark ever in declare independence. confidence level was 50-50." suspended for four years by the The best previous qualifying qualifying. "Now, the Soviet Union is Bagyula, who attends George IAAF after the world governing jump was 27-4 1/2 by Randy 
-Dan O'Brien gained the working toward capitalism. I Mason University, figured body's Congress changed the Williams at the 1972 Olympics. lead midway through the think things will remain Bubka would pull out the mandatory suspension for a "Technically, I'm as sound as decathlon. difficult, unless they settle victory. positive drug test from two to I've ever been," Lewis said. 
-Delisa Floyd, an 800-meter down." "It would be unrealistic to four years last week. "There's no question that I'm runner, was suspended for four Bubka added that the most beat Bubka even if he had his The test followed Floyd's last­ready." years by the International important thing for him was to injuries," Bagyula said. "First place finish in the semifinals of Is he ready to break another Amateur Athletic Federation continue participating "under place is given him. It's decided the 800 on Sunday. world record -Bob Beamon's after she tested positive for no matter what flag," especially before the competition. Second "The amphetamines were 29-2 1/2? amphetamines. in the Barcelona Olympics. place is what we are going for." found to be performance­
"Delisa took nothing that was Bubka had trouble with his Like Bubka, the 33-year-old enhancing, which led to the "Everybody's talking about on the banned list," said her feet on Thursday. To curb the Foster is unbeatable in World stiffer penalty," said Ollan that ... but it doesn't matter," he husband and coach Stanley pain, he was given an injection Championship finals, and just Cassell. executive director of said. 
Gamez sets opening-round record at Milwaukee Open 
FRANKLIN, Wis. (AP) ­Robert Gamez used an eagle and two birdies in his final four holes to set an opening-round record 61 and build a two­stroke lead Thursday at the Greater Milwaukee Open. 
Gamez, 23, a third-year pro from Las Vegas, was 4-under after 11 holes but birdied his next three and then went to 9­under with an eagle 3 on the 524-yard No. 6 hole at the par-3 197-yard No.8. He credited improved putting Tuckaway Country Club. Gamez said his eagle-3 came with helping his game, which he 
John P. O'Malley  
~ ~' IUIIOIS · IIOIAIA CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB  Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980  
Please ask tor John O'Malley.  

Mter birdies on the next two after his drive found the rough said has always been somewhat holes moved him 11 under, he and his approach went over the streaky. Gamez won two tour parred the final hole to break green into the bunker. events last year but none this the GMO opening-round mark "I had a great lie in the year and had to withdraw from of Tommy Nakajima of 62 in bunker," he said. "I checked the the International tournament 1987 and tie the course record pin because I wanted to make earlier this month because of of Ken Green in the third round sure the pin was sitting right. ... shin splints, a problem he said of the 1988 GMO. It just felt like I could make it. It didn't affect him Thursday. 
Mark Brooks and Karl felt like I could get real close." "My iron shots were good all Kimball were tied for second. As he lined up the 30-foot day and I started making some Brooks scored an eagle 3 when shot, "a bug flew on my nose. I putts," he said. ''I'm playing the he fired a 3-iron shot 15 feet didn't want to back away from same as I did last year, I just from the hole on the par-5 it. I felt comfortable over it, so I haven't made the putts." sixth, and added seven birdies just kind of blew the bug off and Brooks said he missed four on the par-72, 7,030-yard hit it (the ball). It rolled right other chances for birdies that course. down and went in the hole." could have put him on a record 
Kimball birdied seven of his He said the only time he pace. final nine holes to gain a share thought of possibly matching "I felt like I was going to play of second place. the all-time PGA Tour record of good when I came out today. 
Jeff Maggert, Hal Sutton, Joel 59 was when he birdied No. 7 "I struggled at the first hole Edwards and David Sutherland to go 10-under for the day. But when I hit the bunker," he said, 


•••••••••••• ·ere bunched at 65, Edwards he settled for a birdie on the but managed to play out for a•••••••• r k. 1 · next hole and a par on the last. par 5 on the hole. "It would
1 The------Castle & Co. : ter rna mg a ho e-m-one on have been pretty easy to take a 
: Men's Hairstyling : ....--C-A_T_C_H_T_H_E_T_E_A_M_S_P_IR_I_T_!---. bogey there, so maybe that 
changed the attitude, if any­thing, all day. 
: YOUCHOOSEAFIRSTCLASSCAMPUS, II 
NOTRE DAME APPAREL 
"It was a good solid round all I WHY NOT AFIRSTCLASSHAIRCUT? I 
day," said Maggert, who last 
year led the money winners on : Haircut, Shampoo, Blow Dry & Condition : 
FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILy 
the Ben Hogan Tour, a testing
You'll be rooting for your 
ground for the PGA Tour.
I Reg. student cut $11.00 I 
"I made the putts you are
favorite college athletic team 
supposed to make.... Most of
I Bring in a friend and receive your 1 
in style. JCPenney has one of the 
the birdies were inside of 10 your cuts for $9.00 each . : 
feet, so I hit a lot of good shots." 
most complete collections of Notre 
Sutton, crediting a switch to
I 

Dame Team Apparel in the area. 
cross-handed putting for help­MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS I 
ing him on the greens, played in 
Check us out! 
one of the nrst groups to tee off
272..0312 277-1691 I and said he found a light breeze
I ~ I
54533 Terrace Lane 1 providing some relief from the
1 

hot, humid weather. 
._ Exp. date 9-3o-91 • • • • • • ~ 
"I haven't won in a while so they give me early tee times 
r:~~~~~~~~~~====~~~~~~~~~~~~andigooutandscrapethedew
1.'-.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................~~ offJ~r!~~~·~~:t~gefit of the ~ ~ T'b QL,.e~~e..,.. early start woutd be a longer 
~ HEY EVERYBODY, ~ ~ -: eJ J~-A.-=Y~ .&:= break before starting the sec­
~ $ ~ ond round, when the weather is ~ LOOK OUT BECAU E ~ is looking for enthusias~c ~t~dents to again expected to be hot and ~ ~ fill the following posttlons: sticky. 
~ ~ Greg Norman, last year's ~ 110/ill 'j]IIJ@illl1ll1®1IJ ~ leading money winner but 50th ~ ~ Assoct·ate News Edt.tor on the list this season, said he 
.r. ~ was happy with his start, which 
~ IS FINALLY 21! ~ News Copy Edt.tor put him among several golfers 
~ ~ at 66. His round included a ~ HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ~ chip-in from 20 feet for a birdie ~ ~ f h · £ ti on the par-5 12th hole. 
~ ~ To apply, or for urt er tn orma on, ..This is a golf course where ~ LOVE, ~ contact: you know it is going to take 20­~ ~ Mont"ca Yant, 239-5303 under par or better to win," he 
~ MOM, DAD, COLLEEN ~ said. 
~ AND KATIE ROSE ~ Applications will be due FriQ; y, August 30. 1 "If you don't shoot 66 you've 
.r. ~ Igot a lot of ground to catch up. 
~ ~ l!-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; You k n ow t h e o t h e r guys are 
• going to shoot six or seven birdies out here." 



!' 
~ 
Ii 
I 
l 
I 
page 16 The Observer Friday,August30, 1991 
Seminoles prey on Cougars; Arkansas preps for Miami 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Casey Weldon threw for 268 yards and two touchdowns, outplaying Ty Detmer in the contest of quarterbacks as top-ranked Florida State whipped No. 19 Brigham Young 44-28 Thursday night in the Pigskin Classic. 
Heisman Trophy winner Detmer was 
19-for-32 for 229 yards with one 
interception. But he kept his 24-game 
TD passing streak alive when he hit Eric 
Drage with a .30-yard shot with 7:22 
remaining. 

But the effort came far too late for the 
Cougars, whose inexperienced offensive 
line made Detmer an easy target all 
night. 

Behind Weldon, the Seminoles' 
explosive offense rolled up 543 yards, 
and he completed 21 of 28 passes with 
no interceptions. 

Leading 28-14 at halftime, the 
Seminoles continued to roll in the third 
quarter, marching 86 yards on 11 plays 
to score on a 2-yard run by Edgar 
Bennett with 7:10 left in the quarter. 
Detmer threw for only 16 yards in the 
third quarter while being sacked for an 
8-yard loss. The Cougars' ground game 
was even worse, posting a 13-yard loss 
during that span. 

A bad snap on a punt by Florida State 
resulted in a 40-yard loss and set up the 
Cougars' second touchdown of the half, 
a 6-yard pass from Detmer to Eric 
Hughes with 2:27 remaining. 

Florida State's Edgar Bennett scored 
two touchdowns, rushing 19 times for 87 
yards and making six catches for 57 
yards. Amp Lee ran for 75 yards on 13 
carries. 

Against the undermanned BYU 
defense, the Seminoles rolled to a 13-0 
lead on their first two possessions as 
Toretta ready to lead Hurricanes 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -Gino Torretta can sound humble and cocky in the same breath as he becomes accus­tomed to his role as the Miami Hurricanes' starting quarterback. 
''I'm only one person of 11 on the offensive team," Torretta said. "But I'm going to be the leader. And I'm going to lead the offense to touchdowns and 
. .. 
wms. 

The fourth-year junior from Pinole, Calif., won the starting job last week when coach Dennis Erickson gave him the nod over third-year sophomore Bryan Fortay, who then quit the team and transferred to Rutgers. 
"It's a shame to see him leave. He's a good friend of mine," Torretta said. 
As the successor to Jim Kelly, Bernie Kosar, Vinny Testaverde, Steve Walsh and Craig Erickson, Torretta is aware of the job's high-profile demands. They begin Saturday when the third-ranked Hurricanes open at Arkansas. 
"Being the quarterback at the University of Miami, everything is riding on your shoulders," Torretta said. 
Saturday's start will not be Torretta's first at Miami. In 1989 he led Miami to three wins in four games as a fill-in for an injured Craig Erickson. Against San Jose State, Torretta threw for a school­record 468 yards. 
"I think I showed 'em two years ago that I have the tools," he said. "And I think I'm going to show it this year." 
But with Fortay gone, second-guessing will be more intense if Torretta fails. The new backup is a second-year freshman, Frank Costa. 
Fortay felt he was the best quarterback in practice, and Torretta admitted he hasn't thrown the ball well this month. In two scrimmages, he completed 18 of 44 passes for 185 yards with one touchdown and four interceptions. 
"I could've played a lot better," he said. "With two-a-days you get kind of tired. You aren't concentrating as much as I should have. 
"As soon as the season starts, I think 
everything will come back. I'm ready to 
play. I'm pretty anxious to get out there 
and get this over with." 

Erickson offered another reason for 
Torretta's recent passing problems: a 
blister on the index finger of his 
throwing hand. 

Bennett caught a 4-yard pass from Weldon and ran 3 yards for another score. 
On BYU's first three possessions, Detmer was 2-for-5, had one interception and was sacked for a 14­yard loss. But he regrouped in the second quarter and· his 33-yard pass to Micah Matsuzaki keyed an 89-yard scoring drive that ended with Peter Tuipulotu's 21-yard run to make it 13-7 with 14:28left in the half. 
But the Seminoles answered with scores on their next two possessions, on a 6-yard pass from Weldon to Eric Turral, followed by Matt Frier's recep­tion for a two-point conversion, and Lee's 5-yard run. 
BYU narrowed the deficit to 14 points on a 10-play, 92-yard drive that ended with Tuipulotu's 22-yard TD run with 
2:18 left in the half. Tuipuloto fmished with 58 yards on 10 carries to lead BYU. 
The Seminoles became the first winner of the Pigskin Classic after Colorado and Tennessee played to a 31-31 tie in the inaugural game. 
Florida State won its seventh straight game dating back to last season. The Seminoles' last loss was to a 20-17 setback to Auburn on Oct. 20. 
The Arkansas Razorbacks, coming off their worst season in 38 years, aren't interested in moral victories when they play host to No. 3 Miami on Saturday. 
Coach Jack Crow said it's not his intention to "cover up the ball, kick it down the field, cover up the ball. That's not the kind of game plan we're going to have. That's not the kind of defensive game plan we're going to have." 
Arkansas, whose 3-8 record last 
e Computer Of Your Choice 
286/12MHZ SYSTEM 
100°/o IBM COMPATIBLE 
(shown with opdotNal monitor) 
• full IMiyte RAM  • tOt key keyboard  
• Printer Ports  • Mono VIdeo Output  
I. 2 Serial ports  • t .1 Mllyte Hoppy Drtve  
UMm.D Q.UANTITIESI  


SAMTRON PAPER 
WHITE MONITOR 
• 
HI Resolution 

• 
14.. dlolgon.J 


DISrLAYOI'TIONS TV Adapter $39.95 Color Monitor SJ1t9i0S. 
SAUl $279.95 

season was its worst since the 2-8 mark of 1952, faces a team that is 55-5 the last five years, a span in which the Hurricanes finished no lower than third in the Associated Press poll. 
"This is their opportunity to come out of the chute and beat a team that's ranked third in the country, get that tradition back and get things going in the right direction," said Miami coach Dennis Erickson, whose team is a three­touchdown favorite. 
Despite its high ranking, Miami has only four returning starters on offense and six on defense, plus two others with some starting experience. 
Arkansas' quarterback will be Gary Adams, who has attempted 12 passes in two years as the backup for Quinn Grovey. Jason Allen was supposed to push Adams this fall, but he has been on the sidelines since he hurt his hand on the first day of practice. 
Adams was recruited as an option quarterback when Ken Hatfield was still Arkansas' coach. Preston threw for 950 yards in a run-oriented offense at Mount Vernon, Texas. 
·--..J.I 
(; 
'.
' . 
• 
friday, August 30, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Braves take step toward division title; 
•The Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune from 9:00 a.m. 
Pirates extend lead to five in East race 
until 4:30pm. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of days the brief is to run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 
•Attention 
Observer Sports Writers: Leave your new campus addresses and phone numbers in the Sports Department mailbox at the Observer by noon on Wednesday if you intend to write this year. Please include your top three choices for beat assignments. All editorial staff and returning writers must attend a meeting at 6:00 p.m. Thursday, and should report to the Observer as early as possible. 

•The 
Notre Dame Rugby Football Club bas practice every Monday tbru Thursday at 4:15 p.m. at Stepan Field starting today. For anyone wishing to join the club, there will be an informational meeting at 5:30 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium next Monday, September 2, or just come to a 


. practice. All are welcome. Pads not necessary. 
•Mandatory 
lacrosse meeting for anyone interested in playing for the varsity squad Monday, September 2 at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. Any questions, call Kevin Corrigan at 239­5108. 

•A 
meeting will be held for all new sports writers Thursday at 6:00 p.m. on the third floor of LaFortune at the Observer. Anyone interested in writing is welcome to attend. 

•All 
wrestlers and anyone interested in wrestling must attend a meeting on Tuesday, September 3, at 4:00 p.m. at the ACC auditorium. 

•Off 
Campus interhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882. 

•Novice 
coaches are needed for the 91-92 season. Interested parties should submit their name and number at the NVA!Recreational sports office in the JACC. 

•The 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club will hold a brief meeting for all returning members in the court yard next to Washington Hall today at 2:30 p.m. If you cannot make it please call Lisa at 283-4852. 

•The 
lottery for Michigan and Purdue student tickets will be conducted by the Student Union Board, not Student Activities as qas reported in the August 28 and 29 issues of The Observer. The Observer regrets the error. 



Paid Position of 
Circulation Drivers. 
Contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 
DON•T MISS THE SHOW OF THE YEAR!!! SATURDAY AND SUNDRY NIGHTS TWO SHOWS!!! 
>>> CRAIG KARGES <<< 
(1991 CAMPUS ENTERTAINER OF THE YEAR) 

ESP SHOWMAN, MENTALIST HE WILL AMAZE YOU!!! 
8 PM WASHINGTON HALL $3.00 Tl.H ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE INFORMRTI ON DESK 
Satisfaction UEAat"al'\teed 

Look who's No. 1 in the NL for the NL Cy Young Award. "I won four of their last five. West. can't say I'm not going to 
Atlanta caught Los Angeles on struggle again this year, but I Reds 11, Expos 3 Tuesday and waved good-bye to feel a lot more confident again, Tom Browning (13-8) pre­the Dodgers on Wednesday by like I did before the All-Star vailed in a rare match up of per­taking a one-game lead. The break." fect-game pitchers as Cincinnati Braves are trying to go from The Braves have won six of pounded Dennis Martinez (12­last place to first in the span of eight and have an NL-best 31-9) for five runs in three innings a year. 16 record since the All-Star and routed Mon trea] at 
"Back when the Braves had a break Riverfront Stadium. little dry spell, people were say­ing reality had set in," Mets Pirates 6, Dodgers 4 Cubs 8, Giants 6 manager Bud Harrelson said. Bobby Boni1la drew a one-out Chico Walker hit the NL's first "No one's saying that now." walk with the bases loaded to inside-the-park grand slam 
Tom Glavine pitched a four­force in the go-ahead run in the since 1985, and Chicago held on hitter to beat New York 3-1 and ninth inning as Pittsburgh beat to beat San Francisco at become the major leagues' first Los Angeles at Dodger Stadium Candlestick Park. The Giants 17 -game winner. to take a five-game lead over St. have lost four straight games. 
Louis in the East. 
Glavine (17 -8), pitching with a 
Phlllles 11, Astros 10 
heavily-taped right ankle which Padres 2, cardinals 1 
Charlie Hayes, who hit a
he sprained in his last start, Fred McGriff snapped a tie grand slam in the first inning,struck out four and walked one with a ninth-inning sacrifice fly capped a three-run rally in thefor his eighth complete game. and Bruce Hurst won his 15th lOth with an RBI single off AI
''I'm starting to feel real game as visiting San Diego 
Osuna (7-4) as Philadelphia
confortable again," said ended St. Louis' five-game win­outlasted Houston for its 16thGlavine, the leading candidate ning streak. The Padres have straight home victory. 


Tyson might face grand jury investigation over alleged rape of pageant contestant 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Indianapolis told police Tyson investigation would be com­Former heavyweight champion raped her July 19 in a room at pleted by Labor Day. Mike Tyson may appear this the Canterbury Hotel, where The jury, meeting for a third week before a grand jury inves­Tyson was staying as a guest of day, heard testimony from con­tigating an allegation he raped Indiana Black Expo. testants in the pageant and also a beauty pageant contestant The Star reported that James from the Rev. Charles Williams, last month, according to a H. Voyles, Tyson's Indianapolis president of the Indiana Black published report. attorney, said Wednesday he Expo. 
A judge approved a motion didn't know if his client would Under Indiana law, testimony Wednesday letting Tyson's appear before the jury. before grand juries is confiden­lawyer in Washington D.C., "I have no idea. I really don't tial. · Vincent J. Fuller, represent the know," Voyles said. "That's a Prosecutors have said that boxer during legal proceedings decision for Fuller to make." Tyson was subpoenaed to tes­
here, The Indianapolis Star said No charges have been filed tify, but as the target of the in­in today's editions. against Tyson, who has denied vestigation, is not obligated to 
It also said that a source said the accusation. appear. a person close to the investiga­The special Marion County No motion to quash the sub­tion confirmed Tyson would grand jury of three women and poena has been filed with testify before the grand jury, three men began investigating Marion Superior Court, the which is to meet again Friday. Aug. 12. court to which the grand jury 
An 18-year-old woman who David J. Dreyer, chief counsel will report. That motion, if filed, competed last month in the for Prosecutor Jeffrey Modisett, is automatically granted by Miss Black America Pageant in has said he hoped the judges for those who are targets 
Please recycle. 
Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. 
Thank you. 

Italian Pasta "All Homemade-100% Real Cheese" 
Spec1a1 1 Courae Dinner • Charcoal Chicken & Steak 
of investigations. 
Judge Patricia J. Gifford ap­proved the motion for Fuller to be an attorney of record in Tyson's case, Voyles said. 
Because Fuller is not an ac­credited Indiana lawyer, he needed a judge's permission to practice here. 
Williams confirmed he an­swered questions for about two hours, but he cannot publicly reveal what he said. 
More than 16 people have tes­tified, either on Wednesday, or Aug. 16 or 23. 
... 

Private Portiea 288-3320 Banquet Room 
BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FREE DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & NO. SPECIAL 
LARGE 18" PIZZA  $ 14.00 TWOOllMUIIIT  
..  
SMALL 12" PIZZA  $ 7.50 TWOOliM.-T  


page 18 The Observer Friday, August 30, 1991 

SPORTS SHORTS
Toronto finds formula to win title 
Baltimore Storm Rising 
NEW YORK (AP)-In a late­After an intentional walk to Pat time for much of August but August game, the Blue Jays Borders, Rich Monteleone seem to be going in the right 
BALTIMORE -Best-selling author Tom Clancy is considering
found everything they needed to relieved. direction heading in to 
trying his hand at writing a new chapter in Baltimore
win a division title and maybe Manager Stump Merrill's September. Wells (13-9) had professional football lore. 
even more. strategy backfired, however, given up 27 runs over 26 1-3 Clancy, author of the "The Hunt for Red October" and currentToronto discovered David when Manuel Lee hit innings in losing his previous New York Times No. 1 best-seller "The Sum of All Fears," isWells can win, particularly Monteleone's first pitch into the five starts. 
considering applying for ownership of a prospective NFL
when backed by spectacular gap in right-center, clearing the '"I think we are more relaxed 
defense. The Blue Jays' 6-2 bases. right now," said Gene Tenace, 
expansion team in Baltimore, according to his attorney, David victory over the Yankees on "Monteleone pitched fine after who's filling in as manager for 
Cohan. Thursday night was a course in that but that one pitch was very Toronto while Cito Gaston is 
Clancy is examining the cost of owning an expansion franchise textbook baseball. costly," Merrill said. "I don't sidelined with a bad back. 
before making a definite statement, Cohan said. He's not seeking There were two great know what to tell you." "We're getting better pitching 
to align himself with any other group seeking an expansiondefensive plays, timely hitting Toronto also used some clutch and that always helps." 
team. 
and a complete-game effort defense to take some runs off Wells gave up two runs, eight Clancy, a 44-year-old Baltimore native, lives in Prince Frederick 
from Wells for Toronto's fifth the scoreboard. hits, struck out five and walked in Calvert County. 
straight victory and a 2 1/2-With the the Blue Jays leading none for his second complete 
game lead over Detroit in the 2-0 in the third, second game of the season. 
HiR=h schooler an ace with coach's clubs
AL East. baseman Roberto Alomar "David was in a little rut," WAERTOWN, S.D. -Watertown High School golf coach MikeHot-hitting Devon White also robbed Don Mattingly of a two­Ten ace said. "But the Ries might have a difficult time convincing 16-year-old juniorchipped in with a homer, double run single with an over-the­performance he had out there Barry Poppen to return his clubs.
and single to give the center shoulder catch of a soft liner to tonight shows he's working out Poppen, using the clubs he borrowed from Ries, recorded two
fielder 14 hits in his last 32 at­shallow right field. of it." 
holes-in-one in three days. 
bats. In the only other game played White gave the Blue Jays a 2­"He says he wants them back," Poppen said. ''I've kept using ''This is the type of baseball in the AL, Chicago beat 0 lead when he hit a solo them because I've been hitting the ball well with them." 
you have to play in a pennant Cleveland 7-2 to snap its nine­homer, his 14th, with one out in He aced the 165-yard fourth hole of the Benson Golf Club in
race," White said. "You have to game losing streak. the third, a shot deep into the Omaha, Neb., on Saturday with a 6-iron and followed it Mondaytake advantage of the In addition to his three-run Toronto bullpen in left. He also with an ace on the 121-yard fifth hole of the Watertown Countryopportunities and take them double, Lee made a diving stop helped build a run with a single Club with a 9-iron.
away from the other team." of Bob Geren's grounder up the in the first. Want an example? middle in the seventh to start a "I look at it as being happy 
Jets establish Lyons award 
With Toroto ahead 3-1, 6-4-3 double play. For a and appreciated," said White, HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -The New York Jets will establish anYankees starter Jeff Johnson (5-moment, it looked like first and who was acquired last award in the name of Marty Lyons, their longtime defensive end 
8) hit a batter and gave up a third with none out. December from California. "It who retired after last season.
single to Pat Tabler before a Both Wells, who had lost his started in spring training under The award will be given annually to the Jets player whosewild pitch put runners on previous five starts, and the Cito and I've been successful in ideals emulate those of Lyons. Lyons, who established the Martysecond and third in the sixth. Blue Jays went through a rough the leadoff spot." 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

While DiLucia's summer re­sults were phenomenal, 
I;i Pizza
I, doubles partner Coleman
d caught a spark after summer \.o'J£.S school as well, winning the U.S. Collegiate Davis Cup in New York over Georgia's Bobby Delivery & Carry out Marincheck, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1. Coleman's next stop was at the 
As near as your phone

USTA National Amateurs, 
' 

where he lost in the semi-finals to Marco Cacopardo, 3-6, 7-6, 3-6. 
271-0200
Coleman also took summer classes and spent much of his time in the weight room, which 
1740 South Bend Ave 
had been a rarity. 

NLifting helped out more than anything else," said Coleman. South Bend, IN Nit's something I should've been working on for awhile, so it was good to see that it paid otT." 
FREE DELIVERY
The top notch play of the DiLucia-Coleman duo should 
I 
pay ofT as the Irish go for their 
'·' 
second straight trip to the NCAAs. 

WELCOME BACK ..•. 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
real competitive match. 

"It's good that we have such a difficult schedule. We have high expectations, and we want to become a Top 20 program, and the only way to get there is to 
OPEN 'TILL
play the best teams." 


And for the Irish to win on Saturday, they will have to continue to show progress in 
MIDNIGHT 
J 

two major facets of the game: passing and defense. 
"Our effort and our pursuit (on defense) have been pretty 2 FREE TOPPINGS good, but we need to become more comfortable with our medium large skills and going to the floor to 12" 14" play balls than where we are 
$6.11 $8.28
right now," Brown said. 

Does not Include tax Free Delivery
-'J 
But for now, the road back to 
Not vaJid With any
the NCAAs begins Saturday 
othef otter
night at the Joyce ACC. EXP. 9-5-91
"Our ultimate goal is to get a bid, and I think it's a realistic, 
·-'·. but difficult goal," said Brown. "It's not going to be something that'll just happen. We're going to have to work pretty hard to attain that goal." 
BUY A 12" WITH 2 ITEMS AND
2 FREE TOPPINGS 
GIT 1 0" FREE CHEFSE PllZA 
medium large CAMPUS DEUVERY ONLY 
12" 14" $6.11 $8.28 

Does not include tax Does not lndude tax 

Free Deiivery 
Free Delivery 
Not val!d with any 

Not valid With any 
other offer 

other offer 
EXP. 9-5-91EXP. 9-5-91 

L------------·--· 
Friday, August 30, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday 
ACROSS 32 Topples a king s& Name in a 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Defending Your Life." Sni. 34N0Waim famed Supreme
1 Put back on the 35 Realty unit Court case
Museum of Art. market 
36 Romanian-born

7 Neb. river 58 New
playwright 

Brunswick'sSaturday 13 More maudlin 
40 Of heat 
river14 Cow catchers 

44 Abandon , 7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Defending Your Life." Snite 1&Whim 45 "King Olaf" 60 Ignored Museum of Art. 11 Footstool composer insultingly 18 Minor argument 47 Opulent, in 61 Noted 19 Mrs. Bunker Oviedo 
62 Viscous 
48 Freudian concerns 63 Take into 21 Heroic tale 

22 Turf 49 Morse-code account23 Capone 

word 

weapon 
50 Seaport in

24 Tirana money DOWN
northeast lt. 

25 "Woe is me!" 
~1 Clydesdale 

1 "--ofthe
27 Fur-bearing 
fodder 

Bailey," TV carnivore 
53 Comedian Ole 

mystery series 
--------------------------------------------zgNothing more 
2Swords, inMENU than 55 Painter Toledo
Georges-­

----------------------------~0 Comedian Jerry 
3 Close 

and family Tour 4 Source of Abu Dhabi's wealth 
Notre Dame 'NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5-majeste 6 Deepens a channel
Broiled Haddock 
7 Schemed
Fried Fish Boats 

28 Of bodily tissue 40 Vital participant 46 U.S. soldiers 
French Bread Cheese Pizza 
8 Slat 
29 Drive in wedding 52 "l.Quien -?"

9 Frick content planning
31 Sounds of 
53 ---Neisse

to Uruguayan hesitation 41 Shipyard Saint Mary's uncles 33 Vet on the worker Line 
42 Reykjavik's 54 Montague, e.g. 
11 Cantina fare hustings nation
Philly Sandwich 12 What-not 36 Characteristic 55 Actress Merrill 
43 President ofstyles
Baked Fish Supreme 13 Church book 57 Pistons' org. 
Harvard:37 Decrees 

California Quiche 15 Krait and 1933-53 59 Tackle 
38 Quack Deli Bar fer-de-lance medicine20 Actor McKellen 39-of Answers to any three clues in this 2&1mmerse 

Thread needle puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Elegance of St. (Bank of phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each form England) minute). 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
Ull .• l-1; .., HY NAM€.15 

'/ellII, YCRII Y£ R 1€NHF.U CAVt:RN. I'l\'1 
ROOf'fiiN' wrr HANK l'H e f'RE.SHIVl~ WOtriAN 
SP£LUWK£R. HERE'S
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Sfl..ECT'Ef' f'Oit ~ 1'bP 
DVH f?oof\1! /'JUtriSV/1. 
:.:;. 

.. And SO -this i?uck starts ,, headin' r~ht-For me~tknov.t So I -hKes OL\t -t\'ns nere red hanJI\erchietand T 
sta.rls \NG\Virtg it like this,_ y'K'fiOw.,. but" he dorvt see me/ so I j~st keeps wavin.9 an:i wo.v\n_g aM all +he tme I'rn 
+h·,nkin; ''rsth;s reqlly hapPet!·~ -b me?",, 
Now we go live to Jeff Harper interviewing three members ofthe new puppet government 




················································~ 
INTERVARSITY 

.. 
CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP'S
: Join the Notre Dame Athletics : 
: • Sports Marketing teamll !• 
®®@~[Ji}l1ll0f1ll@J~@~QIT!ru~W®t!l~ ~O©~©(y)a 
(I.e. picnic) 
_/ • • Free food, fun, fellowship, & volleyball 
PREGNANT
: .IRISH : 
Sun., Sept. I @ 3:00 @ Potawato•i Par 
MOTHERS:
: Student volunteers wanted to help promote : 
(•eel @ •aln circle for rlcles) 
PLEASE 

: Irish athletics for the 1991-92 school year. : 
Sean 277·4436 
DOI'T.OKE! 
For information, call Kevin Kohl at 239-6826. : 
Kevin· x1417 Jack· x3526 
t

en 1Bll;AN QNCIR SOCIIT'f' 
••............................•...................•._______________________________________________
~ ~--------------------~ 


l ) 
) '• 
) ' 

~ 
1.¥ 
'ti 
I 

I 
i j 'I'' 
i' 
l,, 
l 
I j 
I 
I 

; I 
Sports 
page 20 Friday, August 30, 1991 
Dilucia ready to play for NO after summer with ATP tour 




By DAVE MCMAHON Associate Sports Editor 

Although the Notre Dame men's tennis team's season ended in the spring with a spot in the-Round of 16 at the NCAA tournament, the wins kept coming for the Irish during the summer. Though not compet­ing for the Irish the past months, the summertime per­formances of three-time All­American Dave DiLucia and ju­nior Chuck Coleman should greatly improve the team out­look for the fall season. 
After reaching All-American status for the third time in as many years during last spring's NCAA men's tennis tournament, DiLucia faced an opportune summer. 
He could have joined the Association of Tennis Players (ATP) tour and try to earn enough points to gain a qualify­ing position at the U.S. Open in Flushing Meadow, New York, or he could have taken summer school classes to lessen his 
Brown debuts as volleyball coach in season opener 
By RENE FERRAN now for starting positions are Associate Sports Editor Choquette and Turner-who Jed the Irish in kills (321), aces (42) For frrst-year volleyball head and digs (261) in 1990-at coach Debbie Brown, the outside hitter, senior Katie honeymoon is just about over. Kavanaugh at defensive 
The Notre Dame volleyball specialist, and sophomore team opens its 1991 season this Janelle Karlan (1104 assists, Friday at 7:30 p.m. with an 226 digs) at setter. exhibition match against a "At the defensive specialist squad comprised of Notre Dame position, Katie Kavanaugh has alums. The season officially done a great job," Brown said. begins Saturday night at 7:30 "It's going to be important for 
p.m. as the Irish host Purdue. us to have her one the floor as 
Ever since Brown was hired much as possible. She plays last December, all the talk great defense, she passes very surrounding the program has well, and I imagine that I'll find focused on the new coach and a way every game to have her how she, as well as assistants in there. Steve Schlick and Kim Reefer, -"Janelle also is going to be a has brought calm to a situation key player for us. The setting which resulted in the role is a critical one, and we're resignation of Art Lambert last going to rely on her heavily to October. do a good job, and I have 
"We're a lot more enthusiastic confidence she'll do well for about this season," said junior us." co-captain Alicia Turner. A setback for Notre Dame "There's a positive attitude on occurred Wednesday, however, the team and a lot of unity. We as senior Jennifer Slosar went all want to play this season." down in practice with a knee 
"I can't imagine a better injury. While at first appearing 
coach," concurred senior co­serious, doctors have told captain Christine Choquette. Brown that surgery will not be "She pushes us to work hard, necessary and that Slosar but we want to work hard. It's should be back within two to not like a chore." three weeks. 
But while Brown has provided "Obviously this is a a breath of fresh air to the disappointment, but this is a program, will it translate into resilient team, and I'm sure it improvement over 1990s 9-27 will respond to this adversity in record? a positive way," Brown said. 
Choquette, who was a While Slosar's injury will not member of Notre Dame's last affect the Irish greatly in NCAA participant three years Friday's exhibition, they ago, believes so. certainly could have used her 
·we definitely have the against the Boilermakers. potential to make the NCAAs," Purdue finished 21-11 last she said. "Comparing the two season, was ranked 20th in the teams, although we had final coaches' poll and reached stronger players my freshman the NCAA tournament for the 
year (1988), our team now is first time since 1987. Two of its much more unified, much more top returnees are senior Sarah together. What we may be Hopkins (2.59 kills, 218 digs) lacking in experience, we make and junior Gail Halink (2. 7 kills) up for because we work so well who shared the team's Most together." Improved Player award. 
Another Irish strength this Purdue is one of 12 matches season should be its depth. Notre Dame faces in 1991 
"At every position, there is a against NCAA tournament lot of competition within the teams from a year ago. team as to who well be starting "It's nice to have the alumni and for playing time," said match first because we can get Brown. "There will be a large the preseason jitters out in a number of players who will get low-pressure situation," Brown a lot of opportunities to play." said. "But I like opening with a 
Among the favorites right see BROWN I page 15 
class load for the current year 
and work on the physical aspect 
of his game. In typical DiLucia 
take-charge fashion, he ended 
up doing both. 

After contemplating his op­
tions with Irish tennis coach 
Bob Bayliss, DiLucia opted for 
another few weeks in South . Bend, taking three classes and working extensively on his 
physical game. 

"He made a conscious deci­
sion to come for summer 
school," said Bayliss. "He 
wanted to lift and become bet­
ter physically equipped, which 
he did because of a great job by 
the strength coaches. He's also 
guaranteed a lighter load for 
his senior year, which will help 
his game out a lot during the 
season." 

A representative of Team USA 
at the Pan American Games in 
early August, DiLucia continued 
his torrid spring pace, rolling to 
the singles finals before falling 
to Mexico's Luis Herrera, 6-3, 
6-2. But DiLucia was only 
halfway through-he later 
teamed with professional Pam Shriver to bring home the gold medal in mixed doubles. 
While Bayliss liked what he saw in DiLucia in Havana, he was concerned that the United States Tennis Association (USTA) would view DiLucia's decision to nix the summer cir­cuit as a setback to his gar;ne. 
"I was concerned that the USTA hierarchy might think that tennis wasn't important to Dave," said Bayliss. "But they saw what he's capable of by what he did down there, and I really think his Pan Am perfor­mance earned him a spot in the qualifiers at the U.S. Open." 
The qualifying positions nor­mally go to other touring pro­fessionals who have earned a minimum number of ATP points, but the Open committee invited DiLucia over many pros. A rotator cuff injury in his sec­ond qualifying match cut his stint short at the Open and has forced DiLucia to go without hitting since his return. 
see TENNIS I page 15 
DuBose leads ND Linebackers 
By MARK McGRATH determination to help 
Sports Writer 
team. 

"They (the outside When the Fighting Irish take linebackers) are vastlythe field against the Hoosiers improved over last year," said from Indiana University to DuBose. "They have had 
open the 1991 season, one another year to work on both 
question will be on the mind of their individual skills as well as Irish fans-How good is the de­working to help the team." fense? The Irish will rely on these 
One area that will be under players to form the foundation scrutiny will be the of the defense. DuBose is linebackers. The Irish have lost touted by some magazines as six linebackers since last a possible post-season award 
season: four to graduation and winner. One reason for this is two transfers. his intensity and hard work. The lone returning starter is This summer, DuBose im­
Demetrius DuBose 

inside linebacker Demetrius proved his strength, size and DuBose. His partner inside is and the mental aspect of the 40-yard dash times. This is game.
Jim Flanigan. Flanigan, a proof of his desire for excel­
sophomore, earned the "I think that this year's 
lence. DuBose will be the sup­

starting spot last year and this group of linebackers has port for the entire defense. year in fall practice. The worked extremely hard "I just want to play hard this outside linebackers will be led through spring practice and year," said DuBose. "I just by senior Devon McDonald. He this fall." want to do what it takes for will be complemented on the "We have a good group of the team to win." other side by sophomore linebackers in Jim, Pete 
Flanigan thinks the 
Bereich, Brian Ratigan and the

Anthony Peterson. However, linebackers have been playing
Peterson is being challenged by freshmen. I think that they will real well. 
all play real well this year,"

Karmeeleyah McGill, a "We have a lot to prove this 
said DuBose. 

versatile player who moves year, especially inside, because back and forth between offense we have little experience." The outside linebackers arc
and defense, depending on The emergence of the Irish 
where he is needed. as young as the inside 
linebackers in the season The Irish linebackers are linebackers. With three opener should help form a young, so they have spent sophomores, two juniors, and a 
foundation in which they can 
lone senior, the Irish will be

much of their time working on build one of the finest defenses 


