-------~-----------.....-----------.._---~---~---·-~·­

VOL. XXIII NO. 98 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1991 
THE1NDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
HOW TO SHOW CAPITULATION 
Steps to demonstrate a genuine 
troop stand-down are well known 
to 
military officers around the world. 
IRAQI FORCES COULD: 
..,.. Shut off air defense radars, a step that would be evident to the allies' airborne electronic listening posts 
..,.. Transmit clear radio messages saying they intend to cease offensive activities 
..,.. Drop their weapons and leave defensive positions, coming out into the open so that they could be clearly seen by allied observers 
..,.. Pull camouflage nets from tanks, artillery batteries, and troop emplacements 
..,.. Withdraw front-line troops so that allied forces could take over portions of Kuwait and monitor larger troop exits 
..,.. Make major troop pullouts over a stated period of time so movement toward Iraq would be seen 
..,.. Place remaining Scud launchers in the open for observation 
Allies anxiously await ground war 
DIIAIIHAN, Saudi Arabia (API -A waiting world watched Baghdad and the bleak Arabian d«~sert Wednesday-Baghdad for word on peace, the desert for news of all-out war. 
On the northern battlefront, where a million men braced for the light of their lives, probing and skirmishing intensified. American hnlicopters carted off hundreds of Iraqi prisoners after one action, and Iraqi gunners zeroed in on a U.S. unit in another, killing one Arm~rican and wounded seven. 
From front-line bunkers to the distant corridors of power, reports and rumors flew of dnadlines and ultimatums for the long-expected ground war. 
A key French lawmaker said the Desert Storm allies would give Iraq until late Thursday to respond to a Soviet peace pro­posal. or face a final offensive to drive its forces from Kuwait. 
"Now, mon1 than ever," said Fmnch Foreign Minister Roland Dumas. "the ultimate decision rests with Saddam Hussein." 
Late Wednesday, Baghdad radio said President Saddam was sending Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz to Moscow "soon" with the reply of the Iraqi lead­ership to the Soviet plan, be-
OPERATION 
DESERT STORM 
• 
Parents in the Gulf I page 6 

• 
AP poll I page 6 

• 
Washington views I page 6 


lieved to call for an uncondi­tional Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait, coupled with vague as­surances that Saddam could stay in power and the Pales­tinian question would eventu­ally be addressed. 
The Soviet initiative was de­scribed by the U.N. secretary general, Javier Perez de Cuellar, as a "historic opportunity," and U.S. ally Italy also endorsed it. House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said that if the withdrawal is unconditional, "I don't know 
see GROUND I page 6 



Rethinking war objectives-
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
Moved to action by what he viewed to be an immoral re­sponse to Iraqi aggression on the part of the U.S. govern­ment, Father Robert Bossie joined the international Gulf Peace Team in a peace camp inside the Iraqi border prior to the start of the war. 
"The intention of the camp was to be neutral," Bossie told his audience Wednesday. "The human rights violations that had already been committed were to be deplored, but also to be deplored and resisted was the impending war," he said. "That was the people's mission and their voice." 
According to Bossie, the 
'-=S-:-o-ur-ce-:-=-P-en-ta-g-on A_P_, camp, located approximately 
half way across the southern Iraqi border, housed represen­tatives from 16 nations seeking to give non-violent testimony to the war. "We made it clear to both Iraqi and international authorities that we intended to stay indefinitely, and posted signs in both English and Ara­bic that said: 'We choose not to leave. Peace be with you,"' he said. 
"I was embarrassingly safe at the camp," said Bossie. "I was in no physical danger." Despite 
• Press conference I page 3 
these assertions, the campers were evicted on Jan. 27 by Iraqi authorities who had "concerns for their safety." The campers were then transported to Baghdad and eventually bussed to Amman, Jordan. 
Bossie and several fellow coalition members were permitted to tour the remains of the milk factory that Allied forces maintain was an Iraqi chemical weapons plant. 
"If that was a chemical weapons factory, they (Iraq) are better at Hollywood pro­ductions than Hollywood is," he said. "Contrary to what is being presented in the media, the use of English is not an Iraqi ploy to deceive the world; a vast number of Iraqis speak English and many of the signs in the country are in both English and Arabic." 
Bossie also visited the second largest hospital in Baghdad, where he saw "clearly civilian patients injured by the air at­tacks. We saw broken bones, severe burns, and body lacera­tions," he said. 
"If you believe this is a war between two opposing armies, you are sorely mistaken," Bossie said. "The war is against 
the people of Iraq in all 
dimensions of thn word." 
"I have come back from the 
Middle· East to talk to as many 
people as possible and get them 
to reconsider what in the name 
of God is being done over there 
in our name," said Bossie, him­
self a military veteran. "l want 
people to stop being so riled by 
words like 'justice' and 
'liberation' and examine what 
is the moral consequence and 
purpose of this war." 
According to Bossie, because 
the U.S. did not intervene in 
other cases where human 
rights were violated such as 
Turkey's invasion of Cypress 
and the Israeli shelling of 
Beirut, "the only conclusion can 
be that it (U.S. involvement) 
was done because of the West­
ern interests at stake." 
"The U.S. wants to assert it­
self as the accepted policeman 
of the world for the terms it 
expresses in its own interests," 
Bossie said. "What better way 
to get a leg up on the competi­
tion (Japan and Germany) than 
to control the oil resources they 
are utterly dependent upon?" 
Bossie is critical, too, of the media polls which maintain that 80% of the American pub­lic support George Bush's poli­cies. 
Inmate on Death Row is spared 
RICHMOND, Va. lAP) -A man scheduled to die in the electric chair "let out one hell of a cheer" upon learning Gov. Douglas Wilder had commuted his sentence to life in prison with possible parole. 
Wilder said Tuesday, the facts of the case and not widespread support for the inmate led him to spare Joseph Giarratano, who was convicted of the 1979 slayings of a woman and her teen-age daughter. 
The decision was "complex but not difficult," Wilder said. 
A relative of the victims, how­ever, said the governor caved in to political pressure. Wilder has often been mentioned as a Democratic candidate for na­tional office in 1992 or beyond. 
"We're very upset," Earl Jones said in Delmar, Del. "I hope this man never becomes president. I could never live in a country that would allow him to be president." 
Giarratano was convicted of 

Male verbally 

assaulted 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
A man was verbally as­saulted by another man in the men's tenth floor bath­room of the Hesburgh Li· brary early Sunday evening, according to Rex Rakow, director of Security. 
Although the suspect made inappropriate comments to the victim, no physical harm took place, he said. 
The victim described the suspect as a middle-aged white male. He was five feet s·even inches tall, balding and wearing a red ski-jacket, Rakow said. 

in library 
This description matches the description of a suspect in a similar instance last semester. 
Although this was the first case of harassment reported this semester. several cases of the same sort were reported to Security last semester. Usually these cases occured in an upper floor bathroom of the library, Rakow said, however, there have been two in· stances on the sixth floor and one on the second. 
"We strongly encourage anyone who suffers from any sort of harassment to immediately report it to Security," Rakow said. 
Harvard professor encourages diversity 
By KATE MANUEL he said. techniques, the subdominant He hoped this would lead the 
News Writer The university administration people of power need to diver­dominant people of power, who needs to tune its ear to the spe­sify their group membership to are unlikely to listen to needs cific grievances of the minori­include and, thus, reach the they have not experienced, to 
Because resisting "diversity ties at the institution and real­dominants, Willie said. be receptive to minority needs leads to conflict and even war, ize that there are no universal "The best way to reach if they are involved in these 
the survival of a society de­pends upon its learning the lessons that can be taught by groups marginal to it, said Charles Willie, professor of ed­ucation and urban studies at llarvard University. 
College campuses, like all other societies, include domi­nant people of power and sub­dominant people of power, said Willie. 
The dominant people of power meet the needs of a soci­ety by controlling its resources, while the subdominant people of power alert the dominants to needed changes when the soci­ety is not working effectively, remedies to placate minorities everywhere, said Willie, a life­long activist against racial and sexual oppression. 
"A college campus needs to listen carefully to its minorities . . . It's the better part of wis­dom to listen ... Subdominant people of power are essential in any organization, including a university," he said, " The insti­tution, including universities, seldom knows it is being unfair; it needs to be told." 
Because the dominant people of power in society will not re­spond to needs if they are unaware of them or if these needs are presented by certain people unlike you is to make coalitions with those unlike you," he said. "Martin Luther King, Jr. insisted on the marches being multi-colored and -cultured; the whites understood by marching." 
He said that coalitions includ­ing dominants and subdomi­nants are valuable tools for minorities because "you invited them to live with you and expe-. rience life with you ... they also suffer the consequences and realize the unfairness and need to change." 
He cited the realizations able­bodied students gained when they spent time in wheelchairs. 
needs. 
Subdominant people of power will be more effective in com­municating social needs if they diversify group membership. Therefore, the demands will be presented by people like those who will make the changes. If they alert the dominant people of power, the technique used in presenting demands should not be a factor influencing the meeting of the demands, he said. 
Although he would like to see a change in the attitude and orientation of listening, Willie 
see WILLIE I page 5 
fatally stabbing Jones' sister-in­law, Barbara Kline, 44, and raping and strangling the woman's 15-year-old daughter, Michelle, in Norfolk. He was scheduled to die Friday. 
Giarratano, 33, on death row at the State Penitentiary, "let out one hell of a cheer" upon learning of the decision, The Richmond News Leader said Tuesday. 
Wilder had received 5,978 telephone calls and letters urg­ing him to spare Giarratano, who as a "jailhouse lawyer" has written for such publica­tions as the Yale Law Journal. 
·---~--~------~----~---­

page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Mostly sunny today, 

Notre Dame's 
highs in the mid 
50s. Partly cloudy 
and mild tonight. 
Lows in the mid 
30s. Increasing 
cloudiness Friday, 
highs in the mid 


little known 'Mystic Places' 
40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L

Eighty-eight days. 
Athens 59 46 
Atlanta 69 59 
Baghdad 63 45 

That's how many days 
remain until the class of 
Boston 59 43 

1991 bids a fond farewell 
Chicago 46 28 Dallas-Ft. Worth 64 31

to Notre Dame. Some of 
60 35

us won't return to campus Robyn 
42 31 

for a long time; the rest of Simmons 82 71 
Houston 61 48

us will start popping up in Asst. Accent Editor 
Indianapolis 46 27plaid pants for the next London 46 36 
home football game. Los Angeles 83 52 
Madnd 46 37

Since my days at Notre Dame are 
Miam1 Beach 78 71 numbered, I thought I would take time out to Moscow 18 10 New Orleans 65 57
mention some of the places on campus that I 
New York 61 50

would like to visit before I graduate, and ask Paris 50 30 the readers if they know what people do in Philadelphia 58 48 
Portland, Ore 55 46

these hidden niches under the Dome. 
Rome 46 28 

14TH FLOOR 'BRARE: What goes on in there? I've often imagined that it has a dance floor with pulsating lights and a disco glitter ball that descends from the ceiling, while a bunc~ of priests boogie down to "Pump up the 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Jam. 
3RD FLOOR 'BRARE: This is that 'missing' floor that most of the elevators bypass. I haven't got a clue what they have in there. Actually, there are a lot of places in the 'Brare that I haven't visited yet but I would like to check out, like the Medieval Institute and the Rare Books Room. 
But enough about the 'Brare, there are plenty of other places on campus I have yet to visit. 
RADIATION LAB: I'd like to take a peek inside, but I think I'll pass on taking a tour of this place. I'm sure that our radiation lab is extremely safe, but with my luck I'd probably end up hitting some switch and recreate the scrub down sequence from "Silkwood." 
WASHINGTON HALL ATTIC: For four years I've heard the rumors about ghosties and ghoulies hiding out in Washington Hall. It's about time that somebody volunteered to find out once and for all if there are any spirits breaking parietals in the building. Maybe that's why the tortured spirits were forced to roam the attic of Washington Hall in the first place. 
That pretty much covers the list of places I've always wanted to visit before I leave here, but looking at a map of the campus made me think about two more places to in­vestigate. 
REYNIERS GERMFREE LIFE BUILDING: I didn't know we even had one of these. Wisely, the University put this building far away from both of the dining halls and my dorm room. I just have one question. If this building is supposed to be germfree, why did the University put it directly next to the next item on my list ... 
HAZARDOUS WASTE PROCESSING BUILDING: I don't even want to think about what they process here and where they put it. I'm not exactly sure what counts as haz­ardous waste at this University either. It could be a day-old Shepherd's Pie or half-empty beer cans from last week's ofT campus party. 
It looks like I've got my work cut out for me. So many places to see, and only eighty-eight days to see them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's  Staff:  
Production  
News Christine Walsh Megan Junius  Ann Buff Cheryl Moser Graphics  Systems Cesar Capella Brian Stalter  
Accent Michael WMman  Pat Midden  Photography John Rock  
Viewpoint  
Sports Dave McMahon  Rich Riley  Circulation Chris Hanely  
Scoreboard  Business Colleen Gannon  Lu Medeiros  
Mark McGrath  Rich Riley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD Train wreck causes evacuation 
•WOOLDRIDGE, Mo. -Authorities evacuated this tiny village Wednesday' after a toxic chemical used in rat poison began rising in a bright white cloud from the wreck of a derailed freight train. Hazardous waste crews worked to plug a hole in a toppled car containing yellow phosphorous, a highly flammable chemical that is toxic if inhaled or ingested. No injuries were reported. Officials worried that a shift in wind could carry fumes to nearby Overton, a village of about 10 people. Wooldridge has less than 100 residents. Thirty cars of a 119-car Union Pacific train derailed in the remote central Missouri area about 10 miles southwest of Columbia. 
NATIONAL 
'Party line' call results in rape 
•DETROIT-There's no easy answer to keeping children from calling "party lines" like the one an 11­year-old girl used to meet a man accused of raping her, Michigan Bell says. Police on Tuesday were seeking a warrant for a 24-year-old man being held as a suspect in Saturday's rape. The girl got the number from a schoolmate, called Friday and spoke to a man who gave her a second number at which to call him, her mother said. They spoke again Saturday, when she gave the man 
OF INTEREST 
•Assistant 
Student Body Treasurer applications are due today. Turn them in at the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. 

•counseline 
is an audiotape infor~ation service of the University Counseling Center. Curious? See page 3 of your ND/SMC phone book and call239-7793. 

•JPW 
pictures taken during the Friday night Gala Event will be on display Today and Friday from noon until 6 p.m. in Theodore's. Pictures ordered will be available for pick-up in two weeks. 

•candidates 
for Class Offices: There will be a mandatory meeting for each ticket today at 4 p.m. in Student Government offices in LaFortune. Please make sure at least one person from each ticket attends. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 20, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
185.68 Million 199.26 ... 2.14 
S&P COMPOSITE 
365.14 {} 4.25 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,899.01 • 33.17 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD 1}-$.20 to$ 364.70oz. SILVER {} 1.7¢ to$ 3.673/oz. 

her address. He and another man came to the house Saturday while her parents were out and were let in by the girl's 8-year-old brother. One of the men raped the girl, said Officer Allene Ray, a police spokeswoman.Contrary to earlier reports, Ray said only one of the men was involved in the rape. 
CAMPUS 

•NOTRE DAME -On Saturday, Feb. 23 a CPR re­certification course will be offered beginning at 12 noon. Instructors will be available at the Rockne Memorial in Room 218 to recertify any individuals in Adult, Infant, and Child, or BLS CPR, and Standard First Aid. A current certification or one that has expired within the last 30 days is required to take this challenge. Call 239­5297 to sign up. There will be a $3 fee. 
INDIANA 

Purdue University employee killed 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -A Purdue University employee was killed Wednesday when a gunman shot her as she worked at her desk, officials said. "Apparently the gentleman with the gun fired at close range, within 6 feet. After he fired the shots he turned and walked about 90 feet," said Jeanne Norberg, director of the Purdue News Service. "He set his gun on a secretary's desk and said, "Call the police."' Robert Lyon, 59, of Lafayette was arrested shortly after the 3:10p.m. shooting at Freehafer Hall and questioned at the Purdue University Police 
•Korean 
Language Class will be held at 7 p.m. in Sorin Room, LaFortune. It is a non-credit class held every Thursday. Anyone who is interested is welcome to attend. 

•Amnesty 
International Urgent Action Meeting will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is asked to attend. 

•All 
GOLDEN TICKET winners should attend General Meeting # 3 for AnTostal '91 "The Best College Spring Festival." It will take place at 9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Prizes for 'The Bar" fundraiser will be awarded at this time. If you won a GOLDEN TICKET please attend so you have the chance to win a VCR, 12 Pizzas at Barnaby's or a $50 gift certificate to the NO Bookstore. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On February 21 : 

• 
In 1866: Lucy B. Hobbs became the first woman to graduate from a dental school, the Ohio College of Dental Surgery in Cincinnati. 

• 
In 1916: The longest and bloodiest battle of World War I-the Battle of Verdun -began in France. 

• 
In 1947: Edwin H. Land iirst demonstrated his Polaroid Land camera, which used self-developing film that produced a black-and­white photograph in 60 seconds. 

• 
In 1965: Black activist Malcolm X was shot to death by assassins identified as Black Muslims as he was about to address a rally of several hundred followers in New York. 

• 
In 1972: President Nixon began his historic visit to mainland China. 


Thursday, February 21, 1991 
Bossie participates in peace camp in Iraq 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
The American public has not received a fair picture of Sad­dam Hussein or of the Persian Gulf War, said Father Bob Bossie, who spent four weeks with a peace group in Iraq. 
"This war is not being fought against Saddam Hussein and his troops. It is being fought against the Iraqi people," Bossie said at a press confer­ence Wednesday. 
Bossie said that while he does not defnnd Saddam II ussein 's human rights violations, he did not think the press had given an accurate picture of him. "Saddam is not the biggest (lfwil in the Middle East. lie has brought free education and medicine to his people." 
The press has not given an accurate picture of the war, Bossie said. "We have painted a black and white picture of the situation. Because of this, we can't understand what is going on." 
The people of the Middle East do not like a Western presence interfering in the Gulf. Bossie said, "If Iraq told us how to handle George Bush and took over Mexico and sent troops there, we wouldn't be very comfortable with that." 
Bossie discussed his visit to a powdered milk factory in Baghdad before it was bombed by allied forces, who suspected that the factory was producing chemical weapons. Showing a sample of the powdered milk from the factory, Bossie said, "Unless I am totally naive, I can say that nothing I could see could be looked at as chemical weapons." 
Bossie spent six days in Baghdad, where he said he saw "the destruction of innocent human lives." 
He chose to go to Iraq with the international peace group "because they wanted to show that they were willing to put themselves at risk in order to achieve peace." 
Bossie recalled the words of an Iraqi middle class woman who was interviewed after her neighborhood was bombed. "She said, 'Why are you doing this? Are you doing it for the oil in the ground? You should be ashamed!"' 
Also at the press conference, the ND Gulf Crisis Action Group released a letter sent to Presi­dent Bush concerning the re­cent proposals for a negotiated end to the Gulf War. 
The letter, in part, con­demned the continuation of the war, saying that it "will not contribute to lasting peace in the region." 
Saint Mary's students: 
•2 
American Airlines tickets 

•Free 
long distance calls 







Win! 
•Gift 
certificates 

•A 
variety of other prizes 


Volunteers are needed for the 
College's Spring Phonathon Feb. 17-28 (Sun-Thurs.), 6-10 p.m. Third Floor, Haggar College Center 
Assist for just 2 hours any night and have a chance at winning one of more than 50 Individual prizes and awards! 
For more information, call The Division of College Relations, 284-4706 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 
The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Michelle Roell

Trying to get respect 
Saint Mary's students, belonging to the group "Respect," assume the role of the handicapped for the duration of the meeting. "Respect" encourages proper treatment of all people, including the crippled, blind and deaf. 
Mind/body problem explored 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
Although it has yet to be proven, the mind is nothing other than the brain, said Pro­fessor Patricia Churchland of her research Wednesday, dur­ing her lecture "The Neurobiol­ogy of Mind." 
Churchland began her speech by discussing the long-time be­lief that there is a distinction between the physical brain and the composition of the mind. Scientists have gone against this belief and tried to apply the qualities of the human cell to human experience. 
Churchland posed the ques­tion to the audience as to how scientists can perform such re­search. She described the mind as being the part of the human that "feels, thinks, or perceives... the mind survives the death of the brain." 
Through various examples, however, Churchland showed that the mind is indeed part of the physical brain. In one case, she cited when a neurological disorder distorted the mind's ability to perceive correctly. 
In this case, the patient was to look at a drawing of two houses. The houses were iden­tical except that the one pic­tured on the left had flames coming from the left side of the roof and the other house did not. Because of a neurological disorder called "Hemineglect" where in general terms, only half the brain's sensory capa­bilities are utilized, the patient identified the houses as being exactly the same. 
This example supported Churchland's claim that the physical part of the brain did indeed affect the mind in its 

The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 
PEACEMAKING: THE GOSPEL IMPERATIVE 
Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
Tonight-February 21 7:30p.m. LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
ability to perceive, thus, 
indicating a physical link 
between the brain and the 
mind. 
Churchland said that there is 
a call for "co-evolution" re­
search at "higher levels" with 
"more realistic and simplified 
models" in the areas of both 
the physical brain and the psy­
chology of the mind. 
The philosophers were then 
followed by the teachings of 
Freud who deals with questions 
of the mind and how it relates 
to free will and determinism. 
Churchland's lecture fits in by 
discussing the physical ele­
ments of the brain and how the 
"networking of many cells" 
plays a role in the working of 
the mind. 
"We [humans) are meat ma­
chines" quoted Churchland, ".. 
. and we need to understand 
what this means to each of us 
as individuals." 
The lecture given by Church­
land was also sponsored by the 
department of Biological 
Sciences; the department of 
philosophy; the Reilly Center 
for Science, Technology and 
Values, and the Continuing 
Medical Education Center of St. 
Joseph County. 
Women mix pregnancy and alcohol 
CHICAGO (AP) -The drink­
ing rate among pregnant 
women has declined overall, 
but not significantly for 
mothers-to-be who are young, 
less educated or who smoke, 
researchers say. 
Interviews with 1, 712 preg­
nant women in 21 states 
showed that overall, alcohol 
consumption fell from 32 per­
cent to 20 percent between 
1985 and 1988, according to a 
report in today's Journal of the 
American Medical Association. 
"Of all subgroups, only three 
did not show a statistically sig­
nificant decline in alcohol use 
during pregnancy: those aged 
18 to 24 years, those with a 
high school education or less, 
and those who smoked," the 
report said. 
Among pregnant women ages 
18 to 24, the drinking rate was 
23 percent in 1985, compared 
with 22 percent in 1988. The 
rate also declined from 23 per­
cent to 22 percent among 
women with less than a high 
school education, while it fell 
from 42 percent to 37 percent 
among smokers. 
-~------~--­

"_" __ _
"~----­
The Lord's pr?mise is _that He is in our midst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened hy this conviction, we beseech the ~1sen Chnst to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen of Peace, to mtercede for us and for the peoples of our time... (The Challenge of Peace, ~ 292) 
A CALL TO PRAYER FOR PEACE 
This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special f\1ass for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1991-5:15 P.M. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C., Presider & Homilist 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in th1·5 
war:  .  
Jed Aldridge  Jean Crutcher  Patrick Hirl  Paul Moberly  Dan Schneider  
Billy Allen  Jack Cunningham  Mico Holguin  Teddy Molina  Martin Schubert  
Mark Alveear  Tom Cummings  Dennis Hollingshed  John Mullane  Terry Schwemper  
Andrew Ankrom  Jamie Deets  Kipper Hull  Thomas Mullen  Joe Schweninger  
Dr. James Asher  John Demma  Allen Hunt  Neil Mulligan  Marty Sears  
Rick Badger  Peter Deperro  James Jenista  Kevin Murphy  Tim Shanahan  
Kyle Bain  Sean Dillon  Russ Jenkins  Peter Murphy  Kevin Sheehan  
Cincio Balderas  Barney Dodd  Jeff Johansen  Pete Najera  Simon Shimble  
Jim Ballard  Rick Dombrowski  Bruce Jones  Dennis Navarre  James Van Sickland  
Peter Barlock  Jason Domoleczney  Mike Jones  Michael Navarre  Jim Sieth  
Andy Barlow  Rev. Wm. Dorwart, CSC  Patrie Kelleher  Arthur Navarro  Mike Sly  
Brandy Bartolone  Tommy Duke  Niel Keohne  Steve Neary  Michael Spitz  
Todd Bentley  Tommy Dyke  Mike Knott  Kevin O'Brien  Ken Stafanek  
Joseph Bile  Peter Van Es  Giovanni Kotority  Jerry O'Connor  Brett Steele  
David Blain  Dianne Fain  Jeff Kozlovich  Emmett O'Hare  Michael Stefanchik  
Eric Bohdan  Allan Feany  Denny Krembel  Michael O'Leary  Danny Stoeffel  
William J. Bolt  Janet Fierst  John Lanan  Odie Van Opdorp  Scott Storer  
Brian Bott  Andrew Fontaine  John Paul Larkin  Benjamin Pangelinan  Greg Stricklin  
Chad Bowman  David Frenzel  Matthew Laven  Steve Peelor  Anthony Sullivan  
Eric Bowman  David Gagnon  Matt Lawrence  Scott Peters  Joe Sullivan  
Michael Box  Brian Gannon  Paul Leeds  Andrew Peterson  Jerome Swanson  
Michael Boyd  Dozier Gardner  Brad Linsley  Kevin Poling  Joseph A. Swider  
Joey Brenner  Sean Garret  Simon Lissner  Tom Porter  Bill Szalay  
Chuck Broderick  Jim Gass  Gregory Scott Littlejohn  Mark Rakow  Mark Szkudlarek  
Prue Brownley  Mark Gatto  Randy Livingston  Peter Read  Pat Timon  
Joe Bystedt  Carl Gebo  George Logdson  Kathleen Regan  Steve Tomaso  
Bill Caniano  George N. Gee  Jeff Lowe  Sean Reilly  Kelly Townsend  
John carey  John Gerth  John Lriesdale  Todd Reilly  Alejandro Trujillo  
Joseph Carino  Beau Giggy  Ronnie Mack  Johnathan Reinebold  George Uzarralde  
Pat Carr  Jim Gillen  Brian Maher  Brian Rixon  Andrew Vogt  
Curtiss Carter  Reginald D. Glon  Scott Manning  Steven Roumell  Jimmy Wagner  
Andy J. Cernicky  James Goebel  William Marchant  Tim Royston  Jason Wallin  
Jim Chapple  Steven Gonzales  Pat Markivitch  Anna Ruiz  Chris Wallis  
Robert Chrobot  Paul Goodman  Javier Martinez  Elizabeth Ruiz  Don Warmke  
Tim Ciesialka  Mary Pat Govekar  Vic Masserelli  James Ruquet  Chuck Wehnes  
Steve Clear  Joey Graber  Bob McCarthy  Brad Sandars  Tim White  
Gregory Cleary  Chris Hashem  Kelly McGinley  Dan Scarnavack  David Williams  
Danny Cluxton  John Hayes  Scott Mcintyre  Matt Scarnavak  John Winkler  
Michael Coates  Peter Haynes  Matt McKenna  Tom Scheetz  Phil Wirsing  
Patrick Collins John Coniffe  Bob Heinke Bob Henks  Marty McNicholas Joel Miller  Lee Sheley Michael Schierberl  Pete Witty Peter Woodmansee  
Philip Coghlan  Edward Hiar  Jeff Mirer  Brian Schiller  Alex Wojicki  
Marty Cox  John Yaninek  
Steve Cox  Please let us know of additional names missing from this list.  Johnny Young  
Brett Crenwelge  CAMPUS MINISTRY  Joseph Young Frank Zimmerman  
103 Hesburgh Library  Roger Zuidema  

~-------~-------~-~--~ 
Thursday, February 21, 1991 The Observer page 5 



Gorbachev reprimands Yeltsin for insurrection 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet parliament formally censured Hussian loader Boris Yeltsin on Wednesday for urging Mikhail Gorbachev to resign, and Gor­bachov's former foreign minis­ter pleaded for peace in the "war of presidents." 
Tlw plea by Eduard Shevard­nadze, in his first public re­marks since his resignation as fomign minister last December, suggested the depth of the cri­sis in Soviet government. She­vardnadze quit after warning that thn nation was heading toward dictatorship. 
Security Beat 
In a stormy session of the Supreme Soviet parliament, fel­low lawmakers accused Yeltsin, the president of the Russian Federation and a frequent Gor­bachev critic, of declaring a civil war and seeking more power for himself. 
In a resolution adopted 292­29, with 27 abstentions, they accused Yeltsin of defying the constitution. 
The resolution said his statement on national television Tuesday was "aimed at replac­ing the lawful organs of state power.... It contradicts the constitution and aggravates the situation in the country." 
Shevardnadze, who spoke at the opening of a non-govern­mental foreign policy associa­tion he heads, told reporters that if destabilization contin­ues, dictatorship or a civil war is still possible. 
He urged Yeltsin and Gor­bachev to meet to resolve their differences because "this war, a war of parliaments, a war of laws and now a war of presi­dents, must be ended." 
"Everybody must think of the country, the people, the fate of democracy in the Soviet Union and the world," Shevardnadze said. 
stop it is to do what he has done and warn society of the danger. 
Yeltsin seemed to blame Gor­bachev alone for the nation's ills. 
In his televised interview, he proclaimed that Gorbachev "has led the country to a dicta­torship, giving it a pretty name: presidential rule." 
He went on to say: "I am in favor of his immediate resigna­tion, with the power being transferred to a collective or­gan, the Federation Council." 
The Federation Council is the body that includes Gorbachev and the heads of the Soviet re­publics. 
Radical deputies of the Len­ingrad City Council on Wednes­day adopted a resolution back­ing Yeltsin's stand and con­demning what they view as a campaign of persecution of Yeltsin in the Supreme Soviet and in the central press. 
Much of the first half of the nightly TV news program "Vremya" was devoted Wednesday to deputies attack­ing Yeltsin's remarks, although some were shown criticizing the Gorbachev-Yeltsin feud. 
Yeltsin's remarks were per­haps the most dramatic in his years of clashes with the Soviet establishment, which fired back with gusto on Wednesday. 
Lawmaker after lawmaker took the podium in the Supreme Soviet to blast the Russian leader in an hour-long debate. 
"It's a blatant manifestation of sick ambitions and claims to power," said Erkin Yusupov, a deputy from Uzbekistan. " ... People are tired of all these demagogic speeches." 
Viktor Azarov, a parliamen­tarian and representative of a Soviet veterans' group, said Yeltsin's comments amountnd to "a real call for a civil war, inexcusable for a man who eomes to power in our govern­ment." 
Neither Yeltsin nor Gorbachev attended Wednesday's legislative session. The official Tass news agency said Supreme Soviet Chairman Anatoly Lukyanov stopped some people from speaking, including deputies who planned to defend Yeltsin. 
Some deputies did express support for Yeltsin in interviews with Tass. Yuri Luchinsky, a member of the parliament's Democratic Russia faction, said he saw "nothing terrible" in Yeltsin's remarks. Col. Gen. Dmitri Volkogonov, another Russian parliamentarian, said the call for Gorbachev's resignation was "quite legiti­mate." 
MONDAY, FEB. 18 
10:30 a.m. A faculty member reported the theft ol his decal from his automobile. 
12:50 p.m. A Breen·Phillips Resident reported the theft of textbooks and notebooks from the first floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
1:55 p.m. A Zahm resident reported the theft of cash from his jacket on the thirteenth floor of the Hesburgh Library on the evening of Feb. 17. 
TUESDAY, FEB. 19 
11 :17 a.m. Security discovered vandalism to the passenger window of an automobile belonging to a Sarin resident during a security check of the 0·2 lot. 2 p.m. Security discovered vandalism to the wheel cover of an automobile in the B161ot belonging to a University employee. 
7 p.m. Security helped escort an injured Zahm resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center. The Zahm resident injured his ankle playing basketball. 
7:31 p.m. Security responded to a disturbance in the kitchen of the University Club. 
10:51 p.m. A Cavanaugh resident reported the theft of a portable CO player and a compact disc from the second floor of Hayes-Healy. 
11:07 p.m. Secunty helped escort an inJured Cavanaugh resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center. The Cavanaugh resident injured his ankle playing basketball. 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 20 
1:09 a.m. A Stanford resident reported the theft of his wallet from his coat on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
In his resignation speech last December, Shevardnadze blamed the .military and the Communist Party's Old Guard for Gorbachev's shift away from reform. He said Wednesday that the Soviet crackdown in the Baltics. which occurred after his resignation, "confirmed that my fears were not baseless." 
In an interview in the latest issue of the radical magazine Ogonyok, Shevardnadze said a "shadow power" is operating alongside and sometimes cir­cumventing the nation's consti­tutional bodies. "The shadow power is dangerous bec-ause it is anonymous," he was quoted as saying, and the only way to 
10 a.m. A University visitor reported losing his checkbook in the JACC during the NO vs. Creighton basketball game. 10 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of his decal from his automobile while parked in the B-2 lot. 
11 :06 a.m. Security responded to a medical alert at the University Club. The person was assisted to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
12:20 p.m. A resident assistant from Howard Hall reported a series of harassing phone calls to several residents of Howard Hall. The caller was an unknown male and claimed to be tak1ng a survey. 
LIKE CHILDREN? 
LIKE THE OUTDOORS? 
Be a counselor this summer at Camp Foley in Pine River MN 
Come see us: Man Feb. 25 at SMC in Lemans Tues Feb. 26 at ND in Lafortune 
Looking for stuff in sailing, swimming, biking windsurfing, tennis, waterskiing, fencing, lancing, archery, riflery, crafts, & more ... 

Wi II ie 
continued from page 1 
said at this time it is easier to 
change the approach to ex­
pressing demands. 
"Whites are more likely to 
believe what it is like being 
black when they are told by 
someone who is white," he 
said. "One would hope that one 
would listen to the truth re­
gardless of who says it. Unfor­
tunately, this is not always the 
case." 
He mentioned the example of 
two books describing what it is 
like to be black. One, "Black 
Like Me," was written by a 
white author and is now used 
in high schools throughout the 
country. The other, "On Being 
Negro in America," was written 
by a Black. Although it is 
equally good, it is seldom read. 
lie said one of the weak­
nesses in the marches of the 
women's movement was their failure to include men. 
Willie argued against exclu­sively black colleges because the value of black colleges can only be learned by whites from other whites who have been ed­ucated there. 
Within both American and collegiate societies, there is a tendency to discourage plural­ism, he said. 
In the 1920s, America had a multi-linguistic population and discouraged the use of native languages. Now, Willie said, "we are seeing how valuable multi-linguistic talents are in Japan." 
Similarly, he said, "Colleges are inviting minorities to come, but to come and conform to the college as it had existed. The minority groups are saying, 'we don't want to conform because we are a corrective."' 
"I tell all my students at Har­vard, once you are a member of this community, it belongs to you and you belong to it. You must conform to it and it must conform to you," he said. 
When society fails to accom­modate and learn from the di­versity within it, it falls victim to self-destructive contradic­tions, he said. Two examples of such self-destructive contradic­lions in American history are the Constitution and the Supreme Court's Plessey vs. Ferguson decision. 
The Constitution was written by 55 delegates who were all white and all male. They were trying to promote a democratic and free society, but at the same time they also embraced slavery, he said. 
"As a result of trying to live with this contradiction, we fought a civil war almost two generations aftnr the constitu­tion was written," he said, "If the nation had had a Black, a Native American, a woman, and poor people at the Constitutional convention, my guess is that they would have had a Constitution supporting democracy without slavery." 
A similar contradiction was contained in the 1896 Plessey vs. Ferguson decision that al­lowed segregated facilities as long as they were equal, he said. 
"The range of knowledge, ex­perience in that decision was too narrow-nine individuals. As a result of that limited per­spective, our society almost came apart at the seams two generations later, in the 1960s," he said. 

LUB 

Share in the life and work

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
of the Holy Cross Fathers 
AND 

and Brothers in East Africa 


JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 
as a lay associate. 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT 
Information and THE INFORMATION DESK IN 
applications available at LAFORTUNE 
the Center for Social Conerns. Contact Mary APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
Ann Roemer soon. Position 


open, starting in August. 
MARCH 1, 1991 



OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 6 Thursday, February 21, 1991 
AP poll: Women serving in the Gulf 
NEW YORK (AP) -The As­your family fight in· the armed sociated Press poll on women forces against Iraq, or not? · and combat was conducted by Yes: 45 percent. No: 50 telephone Feb. 13-17 among percent. Don't Know-No a random sample of 1,007 Answer: five percent. adults in the contiguous 48 • Would you be willing to states. Interviewing was done have a young man from your by ICR Survey Research family fight in the armed Group ofMedia, Pa. forces against Iraq, or not? 
The results were weighted Yes: 74 percent. No: 22 to represent the population by percent. Don't Know-No key demographics such as Answer: four percent. age, sex, region and • Would you say that most education. men are better suited for 
Chance variations in the combat than most women, .. sample should not cause the that women are better suited results to vary from the than men, or that men and 
answers of all Americans by women are equally suited in more than three percentage this area? Men better suited: points more than one time in 61 percent. Women better 
20. This margin of sampling suited: 0.5 percent. Men and error is larger for responses Women equally suited: 3 5 of subgroups, such as a percent. Don't Know-No region or age category. Answer: four percent. 
There are other sources of • Do you feelit is acceptable potential error in polls, or unacceptable for the including the wording and United States to send women ·· order of questions. Here are with young children to the 
the AP poll questions: war zone? Acceptable: 31 (Because of rounding, sums percent. Unacceptable: 6.4 may not total 100.) percent. Don't Know-No 
• 
Do you think women in Answer: four percent. the U.S. armed forces should • Do you feel is is participate in the fighting acceptable or unacceptable against Iraq, or not? Yes: 56 for the United States to send percent. No: 39 percent. Don't men with young children to Know-No Answer: five the war zone? Acceptable: 68 percent. percent. Unacceptable: 28 

• 
Would you be willing to percent. Don't Know-No have a young woman from Answer: four percent. 


Should parents leave 
(AP)-Carolynne Zales, Kerri Worthy and Ramona Seymour believe they can best serve their country by staying home with their babies. 
They hope the Army agrees. 
''I'm perfectly willing to serve," Seymour said, "as long as they understand that my children come first." 
As the nation fields a military force with more parents in its ranks than ever before, the obligation to serve is running headlong into obligation to family. 
Children from 17,500 families have been left either without both parents or without the single parent who cares for them since Americans started leaving for the Gulf in August, the Pentagon says. 
Government figures show that 16,337 single parents and 1,231 military couples with children are among the more than half-million U.S.troops deployed in the six-month-old gulf crisis. Although parents have served in other wars, the unprecedented numbers in the gulf have prompted calls for a change in policy about deploy­ing parents. 
Among those called to duty are new mothers like Kerri Worthy, a Pleasant View, Tenn., woman who gave birth to a son less than six weeks ago. Her husband, Scott, already is in Saudi Arabia with the 101st Airborne. 

Saddam's future debated 
Baker is certain Iraqis will soon leave Kuwait 
WASHINGTON (AP) Persian Gulf to "stand together unconditionally, despite much 
Secretary of State James A. against another brutal discussion of a still-secret 
Baker III declared on dictator." Soviet proposal on the subject. 
Wednesday that Iraqi troops He also noted that the guests Members of the House were 
"will leave Kuwait soon," but at the black-tie dinner included given a briefing on Capitol Hill 
he steered clear of the question not only Gen. Colin Powell, complete with a slide show 
of Saddam Hussein's postwar chairman of the Joint Chiefs of showing how allied troops 
future. Staff, but the top enlisted men would get past Iraqi ditch, wire, 
House Speaker Thomas S. in the Army and Navy, Sgt. Maj. minefield and burning oil Foley, meanwhile, said it would Julius W. Gates and Master defenses.­be "extremely difficult" for Chief Petty Officer Duane R. "! think most members now President Bush to refuse an Bushey. have reluctantly concluded that unconditional Iraqi withdrawal "Our country is united behind a ground war may be -even if that meant leaving them totally, today, exactly as inevitable," said Rep. Jim Saddam in power. we were united in World War II Slattery, D-Kan. But Rep. John 
While the talk continued, and patriotism is high here Spratt, D-S.C., a member of the 
Saddam's army remained in now," he told the queen. Armed Services Committee, 
Kuwait, and the world waited "Our purpose ... is clear and said that although Congress 
for Bush to give his own troops our mission is just and we are was willing to leave such a 
the go-ahead for the long­going to prevail and your forces decision to the president, "the 
expected ground offensive. and ours will guarantee that strong advice is not to rush into 
Bush himself had nothing to the torch of freedom will a ground war." 
say on the subject in public. But illuminate Kuwait," Bush said. U.S. military officials said 
Baker, speaking at a luncheon Foley, the top-ranking they expected victory if and 
for Denmark's Queen Democrat in Congress, said when Bush gave the green light 
Margrethe II, renewed the U.S. lawmakers share the for ground action. But they also 
demand that Iraq pull out of administration's concern about sought to dampen any 
Kuwait "immediately, totally Saddam remaining "a serious expectations of a lightning 
and unconditionally" and problem in the gulf for years to triumph. 
comply fully with U.N. come." But if Sad dam agrees to Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, 
resolutions. "Anything short of an unconditional withdrawal, director of operations for the 
that is unacceptable," he said. Foley said, Bush would have "a Joint Chiefs of Staff, noted that 
'One way or another, the very difficult choice." he and other officials had said 
army of occupation of Iraq will "I don't know how he could a day earlier a ground war 
leave Kuwait soon," Baker fail to accept it." would be won "in short order." 
predicted. He said later that the "I should have said 'good 
At a state dinner Wednesday question might well be order,"' he said. "I don't think 
night for the Danish queen, academic because there has it's going to be any kind of 
Bush saluted Denmark for been no indication Saddam is pushover.... It's not going to be 
sending a warship to the prepared to withdraw a snap." 
Associated Press Poll 
Sending


children to serve? 
Parents

The couple has no place to ent in military couples and sin­leave their baby, and Mrs. Wor­gle parents who are their chil­to War thy plans to take him with her drens' sole provider. Rep. Bar­Do you feeFlt is.acceptabhi 
or when she reports to Fort Lee, bara Boxer, D-Calif., has pro­, unacceptable for the United States Va., on March 1 to press her posed similar legislation in the , to send women with young children case. If the Army continues to House. i to the war zone? deny her plea for an Acceptable w-r.~~~~·¥;t exemption, she wants a Rep. Clay Shaw Jr., R-Fla., 
Unacceptable 64%

stateside assignment. wants mothers of children un­
No answer 14%

der 6 months old to be assigned "If I go over there, if both of outside of areas subject to 
Do you feel It Is acceptable or 

us make it back, he'd be almost hostile fire, and Rep. Jill Long, 
, unacceptable for the United States 

a year old, at least. He won't D-Ind., has introduced a bill to send men with young children to even know who we are," said that asks the military to con­the war zone? Worthy, who is still nursing sider deploying the sole, or at Acceptable 68% Corey. "And if we're both killed, least one parent, to an area 
Unacceptable~

then he'll be an orphan." where child care facilities are 
No answer 14%

That image has inspired a available. 
Source: Associated Press poll taken Feb. t 3-17

raft of legislation. U.S. Sen. But if it takes congressional 
by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa.

John Heinz, R-Pa., has intro­action to .change policy, it most 
The random sample of 1,007 American adults 

duced a "Gulf Orphans Bill" to likely will be too late to help 
has a margin of error of ± 3 percentage points. 

exempt from combat one par-parents in the Persian Gulf. 
AP/Carl Fox 

Ground 
continued from page 1 
how (President Bush) could fail to accept it." 
Bush kept a public silence on the issue Wednesday, a day after describing the plan as "well short" of U.S. requirements. Although Bush did not elaborate on his objections, Re­publican House leader Robert H. Michel said, "We want to see conditions change" in Iraq ­that is, Saddam ousted. 
While Baghdad's beleaguered leadership kept the world waiting for its reply, its official radio remained defiant. 
Dismissing the alliance's strategy for an assault on Kuwait, the radio declared, "Their paper plans will be nothing when the ground battle starts." 
For his part, overall Desert Storm commander Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf said the Iraqi army, under aerial bombardment for a month, was "on the verge of collapse." Other senior U.S. officers added, however, that they still expected a bloody fight. 
"There's still a formidable force out there," one said. 
One formidable element was reported moving into place. British military sources said Iraqi troops were dispersing artillery at the front in apparent readiness to take on the allies with chemical weapons. 
American commanders say intelligence information indicates Iraqi division comman­ders were issued chemical artillery rounds with authority to use them at will, said a news-pool report from the front. 

People gather Tuesday in Amherst, Mass. to lay flowers, light candles, or just look at the scene where Gregory Levey, 30, of Amherst, Mass., died Monday after setting himself on fire at Amherst Common to protest the war in the Persian Gulf. 
r 
Business 

Thursday, February 21, 1991 page 7 
Mil ken will serve 3 to 10 years 
NEW YOHK (API -Michael Milkr.n should serve at least three years of his 10-year prison s1mtenee said a federal judge. She plaeed the cost of Milken's erimes at $318,000, far bPlow the government's es­timate of $4.7 million. 
The U.S. Probation Offiee val­UI~d the erimes eontained in the guilty plea by the former Drnxel Burnham Lambert lne. fi­nancier at approximately $685,000. 
The estimates arc expeeted to bn eonsidered when thn U.S. Parole Commission decides how long Milknn must be imprisoned before becoming eligibln for parole. 
U.S. Distriet Judge Kimba Wood said Tunsday that Milken should snrve at least thren ynars of the I0-year sentnnee shf~ gave him last November. Wood said shn fashioned the s1mtenee in proportion to one given inside trader Ivan Boesky, Milken's main aecuser. 
The judge made tl'le eomments at a hearing in 

ATIENTION SOPHOMORES 
and Interested Freshmen: Don't Miss The College of Arts and Letters 
Michael Milken 
connection with her planned recommendation to the parole commission. The commission is not required to follow recommendations from either the judge or the U.S. Probation Office. 
Milken pleaded guilty to six felonies last year related to il­legal securities trading and agreed to pay $600 million in penalties. His lawyers are ap­pealing the sentence, but said he is to report to federal au­thorities March 4. 
"Meet Your Major Program" 
Day Date Time Sunday 2/24 5-6 
6-7 7-8 8-9 
Monday 2/25 4:30-5:30 
7-8 8-9 Tuesday 2/26 7-8 
8-9 
Wednesday 2/27 4:30-5:30 
7-8 
8-9 
Thursday 2/28 4:30-5:30 
7-8 
Boesky served just over two years of his three-year sentence before his release last year. Had he not been rewarded for cooperating with prosecutors, Wood said, he likely would have spent five to seven years in prison. 
Milken's term included a com­parison to Boesky's based on damage to market confidence, attempted cover-ups, the in­volvement of others and per­sonal character she said. 
Under federal guidelines, if losses exceeded $1 million, Milken would get a recom­mended sentence of 40 to 52 months before becoming eligi­ble for parole. If the losses to­taled $200,000 to $1 million, he would face 24 to 36 months. 
Prosecutors said in December that Milken's crimes involved more than $4.7 million in fraud, while the defense placed the cost at $326,000. The judge said she arrived at a total of $318,082, all of it in one of the five transactions in Mil ken's guilty plea .. 
Department CAPP Hesburgh Program Sociology Philosophy 
AE/ALPP Music German & Russian Romance Languages Theology Anthropology History 
American Studies Economics Gender Studies English 
(AP)-Community control. 

Those two words have be­come a rallying cry in many poor neighborhoods as folks who once were silent and submissive are speaking out and taking steps to shape their communities. 
"We're giving people an alternative -to take control over their own lives," said Charlene Johnson, president of REACH, a Detroit-based community group involved in many self-help projects. 
From the classroom to the streets, the movement is growing. Here are some examples: . 
EDUCATION: In MilwaUkee, less than 300 children attend private schools at public expense in a first-in-the­nation choice program that is the subject of a court fight. 
The program. approved by the state Legislature, was struck down last fall by a state appeals court, which 
Location 104 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 
104 O'Shag 103 Crowley 115 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 204 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 
218 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 115 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 
Classical and Oriental 
Languages  218 O'Shag  
Program  of  Liberal  
Studies  (PLS)  Grace  Pit  
Science, Technology  
& Values  218 O'Shag  
Communication  
and Theatre  O'Shag Loft  
Psychology  119 Haggar  
Government  104 O'Shag  
Art,  Art  History  &  
Design  200 Riley  

Self-help projects grow in poor neighborhoods 

**Note: Those students interested in an AL Math major please attend the College of Science Information night. 
said it had been slipped illegally into a larger bill. The children continue to attend six private schools while the deci­sion is being appealed. 
Critics, including the NAACP and state · schools superintHndtmt, argi.H:l the plan siphons off needed money from public schools 
and  uses  tax  dollars  for  
private purposes.  
NEIGHBORHOODS:  In  

Detroit. HEACH has bought, renovated and sold more than a dozen homes, some of which were crack dens. It purchased another building that was converted into a 150-seat cafeteria last fall and is co­owned by group members. 
REACH, based in a neigh­borhood where the average income is $13,000, also has led anti-crime marches and established a small business development center providing counseling for budding entrepreneurs. 
CPA Desert Tax Mission launched 
Special to The Observer 
The Indiana CPA Society has launched CPA Desert Tax Mission to provide assistance and ease tax filing coneerns for Indiana military personnnl sta­tioned in the combat zone and their spouses who need help in completing standard tax re­turns or answers to tax ques­tions. 
Although a filing extension has been granted for military members serving in Operation Desert Storm, families may be faced with questions they have not encountered before. Especially affected are those with reduced income in 1990 due to the call to active military duty. 
As a public service, the Indiana CPA Society will try to match requests to local CPA firms for free tax return preparation assistance on 1990 individual and joint, Indiana and federal tax returns for Indiana military personnel sta­tioned in the combat zone and their spouses who need help in completing standard tax re­turns or answers to tax ques­tions. 

To be eligible, the military member must be an Indiana residnnt and provide a eopy of deployment orders to the com­bat zone. 
Military families can call the Indiana CPA Society at (317) 872-5184 for assistance or a brochurn. 
The Indiana CPA Society is an organization of 6,000 Certified Public Accountants . 

--------------------~---~ 
---~­
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, Febraury 21, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor••••.••...........•.••. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••.•.•...Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ..••........ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ............•........ Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor..........•...•.. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ••••Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......•.................. Eric Bailey OTS Director ..........••......... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...•..•. Corinne Pavlis Controller ...•.......•.•...•..... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. ·It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND contributions to Third World Relief Fund helps many in need 
Dear Editor: 
The vertical sun-rays baked 
the air and drained our tired 
bodies. A woman and her 
teenage daughter, a young cou­
ple and their sick boy, an 
elderly fellow: all sat patiently 
outside the low-income medical 
clinic in the remote Mexican 
town. Smiling as they bore their 
sufferings, they came in one at 
a time for triage. With a blood 
centrifuge and an EKG machine 
from the 1960's, we diagnosed 
the patients. The volunteer 
Mexican doctors and U.S. med­
ical students used a new micro­
scope to view blood and urine 
samples daily. ' How did an out-of-the-way 
clinic acquire a modern micro­scope? Every year members of Notre Dame's faculty and ad­ministrative staff, through the Third World Relief Fund, give contributions or pledge portions of their salaries to help grass­roots development projects around the world. 
A gift of a free trip to the clinic was presented to the Third World Relief Fund committee. As no members could go, they sent me. That week I learned how much peo­ple can do if they come together to give of themselves. A young women, feverish and exhausted, came to the clinic on a Friday. Her red blood cell count was very low. Because iron-rich green vegetables are rare in the area, she was given iron tablets. She returned Monday energetic and smiling. She was diagnosed and treated for anemia, a simple solution for a debilitating ailment. Through the efforts of the Third World Relief Fund, it became apparent that people giving together can help change people's lives. 
Anyone interested in helping the Third World Relief Fund or for further information, call Kathleen Weigert at the C.S.C. at 239-5124. 
Paul Radich Zahm Hall 
Feb. 18, 1991 

U.S. solution to Hussein perpetuates problems 
Dear Editor:  Kuwait, he should have used the  John Lennon in his call to "give  suffering in this war are not the  making a circle around a burn­ 
In light of the events which  international body behind  peace a chance."  warmakers, but rather the  ing house and hurling Molotov  
have so brutally been laid out  whose ambiguous flag the  members of the coalition army,  cocktails at it in order to try to  
before our eyes, I feel compelled  coalition is hiding, namely the  Then, George Bush jumped at  the Iraqi army and, most of all,  burn it down more quickly, and  
to comment on the unnecessary  United Nations.  the chance to test his toys and  the innocent civilians of the  hoping that none of its flames  
violence caused by the actions  guns on living, breathing peo­ Middle East.  shoot out to any of the neigh­ 
of both parties in the Gulf  Instead, he took matters into  ple. Furthermore, Saddam then  The solution to try to end  boring houses.  
conflict. I am outraged at the  his own hands and violently  fulfilled his promise to attack  Saddam's violent rampage with  
attitudes of the heads of state  pursued a solution to his  the innocent people of Israel.  violence was unnecessary and  As one can see from this  
commanding this war. Neither  problem. In doing so, he used  This, after five months of per­ imprudent. Peaceful means of  analogy, it is not the smartest  
of them considered a peaceful  the method which is not a  secuting the people of Kuwait in  resistance were not given a  method of solving the problem.  
means or resolution and the  solution at all, but rather just a  many unspeakable ways.  chance. Instead, via the rubber­ We must rise up and call for a  
result has been the deaths of  compounding of the problem.  Recently, I think one of the  stamp decisions by the U.N.  peaceful solution to this war  
thousands of individuals, who  This was seen shortly thereafter  grossest examples of just how  Security Council and the U.S.  now, so we can stop the violence  
will not have a chance to enjoy  as the U.N. allowed sanctions  wrong both sides are in this war  Congress, the fate and suffering  and work toward a peaceful  
the glorious life given to them.  against the Iraqis.  was given to us. Estimates of  of millions of individuals lies in  world, in which our children  
No, they have been cut short by  Unfortunately, an ultimatum  500 to 1000 Iraqi civilians were  the hands of two men.  can live and prosper. It must  
two megalomaniacs, who think  was then given to the Iraqis,  killed in a single bombing raid.  start sometime, and the time is  
they are playing war games.  and in five months of military  The Iraqis blame us, and the  Violence is never a solution to  now.  
I think that most agree that  escalation, approximately seven  U.S. blames the Iraqis;  any problem. Saddam Hussein's  
Saddam Hussein was totally  hours of talks occurred. These  meanwhile these innocent men,  use of violence has led us to this  
unjustified when he invaded  talks basically consisted of  women, and children are dead  awful predicament, and George  Jack Daly  
Kuwait in August. If he had le­ demands by both sides. Neither  due to the massive egos of two  Bush's choice of fighting  Pangborn Hall  
gitimate grievances against  leader listened to the other, nor  men. This shows us that those  violence with violence is like  Feb.13,1991  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  


'Perserverence and spirit have done Wonders in all ages.' 
George Washington 


Viewpoint
Thursday, February 21, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
War is leading Christians away from God's Kingdom 

Dear Editor: torrent of oxymoronic rhetoric not two naughty boys arguing both Augustine and Aquinas lost times, they were forced to be 
On Ash Wednesday, I attended and trivializing tripe has turned over a minor incident; they are sight of the example of Christ's violent. mass at KetHHtn iiall. Father into a river of blood, as if Moses two international leaders both life, as well as the example of The justification that we llimns was the prBsider. In his had just dipped his statT into it. guilty of grossly evil acts. the early church, when they Christians use today for our homily, Father focused on the First, we have George Bush In light of all of that, I guess were considering the problem of participation in military action words of St. Paul in the second stating that "we are going to what disturbed me most in war. And we in the closing is that "we simply have to face reading: "Now is the acceptable kiek some ass" as if we were Father Himes' homily was the times of the twentieth century the reality of the world as it is." time for salvation!" This, of getting ready for a football realization of just how far we haven't stopped to re-examine Jesus did not come to accept the coursn. was not St. Paul's game or, worse, threatening a are as a nation from being the the issue. world as it was or is now, but to original idea. John the Baptizer barroom brawl. best of whom and what God As a community, we turn the world upside down and had called for repentance On the other hand, we see intends us to be, and, for those Christians have forgotten the make the Kingdom of God earlinr, stating that the born-again Moslem Saddam of us who profess to be fact that to be a Christian is to reality. I believe that he did "Kingdom of God was at hand." Hussein bowing towards Mecca Christian, how unable we seem be a martyr, to meet violence that. If I didn't, my faith is a lie, And .Jesus repeated the and petting children. Islamic to be to grasp this acceptable with passive resistance, to turn and my life as a monk makes mnssagn and taught how to religious leadership pointed out time for salvation. If the polls the other cheek, to die, if me a bigger fool than the ent1~r the Kingdom. Father these acts as a quintessential are correct, the vast majority of necessary, as an act of love. philosophers! llimes simply reminded us that hypocrisy and a mockery of us who claim to be the followers Jesus was first, then Stephan, I keep hearing George Bush salvation is ours now -we only God. of Jesus--who say we strive to followed by thousands. even say that the war can end as rwml accept it by being who God There is the twisted reasoning be Christ-like--are in full millions, more throughout the soon as Saddam Hussein pulls intendt~d us to bB, that is, by that would have us believe that support of the decisions of ages up to our present time. his troops out of Kuwait, the bning thn best of whom and the best way to support our George Bush acting as Names like Martin Luther King, choice is his. Bush only what wn arn, the image of troops is to psych them up to Commander-in-Chief. Many Oscar Romero and the six acknowledges half of the Christ. Unfortunately, Father's kill and die. One example of an point to the Just War Theory as Jesuits of El Salvador come options. The war will end as homily, though brilliantly oxymoron was restated in a Feb justification. immediately to mind. These soon as someone, one side or dt~livered and inspiring, was a 7 letter to the editor: "war is Attempting to determine people died, not in battle, but the other, stops fighting it. It little difficult to takB after necessary for peace to occur"; whether or not this war in the because they challenged could be us. having just watehed the evening the best example is "a just war." Gulf qualifies under the injustice by a bold witness of Now is the acceptable time. news and the lirst real pietures And now we are witnessing the philosophical assumptions of the gospel. I would submit that of the demonic nature of our spectacle of Bush and Hussein the Just War Theory is a their lives did more toward Brice Abel, O.S.B. current war. accusing each other of having ludicrous exercise when held up moving us closer to the goal of Brownson Hall 
In this propaganda war in the caused the death of civilians like to the teachings and life of real peace than all of the Feb.15,1991 Gulf, which only incidentally two naughty boys pointing Jesus. In this case, I agree with "necessary" wars. They did not involves a battle field, neither fingers at each other over a St. Paul--the philosophers are submit to the fallacy that side is to bn belinved. Thn broken window. But they are fools. I think the problem is that because they lived in violent 
Lack of cultural diversity at ND makes minority identity difficult 
Dear Editor: most minorities first arrive at for their performance on the 
Among people I know and ar­Notre Dame, they are subjected field, but cannot (and will not) tides I read in The Observer, it to an environment totally for­become friends with them off of seems that there is much con­eign to them. They either par­it. This all points to the fact that fusion eoneerning SUFH and the tially lose their identity to fit in there is a great misunder­issun of minority affairs at Notre or feel out of place in Notre standing of other cultures and Damn. Many are puzzled that, Dame's extremely homogeneous an ignorance of their identity in a fairly Christian, family­environment. and how to relate to them. oritJn ted !'!Jviron men t, where I did not personally realize the I do not wish for an environ­people are generally concerned prevalent ignorance of other ment where people segregate for others, a few people com­cultures here until the themselves because of skin plain about life at Notre Dame beginning of this year. When I color or treat others differently and its cohesiveness. Whenever would discuss my Filipino iden­because they come from differ­I diseuss minority issues (I am tity with others, most found my ent backgrounds. I do hope for Filipino), people claim that I views strange; they had always a setting where all people con­"expect to b1~ treated specially thought I was white, just be­sider themselves a family; how­becausn I have a different skin cause I was friends with and ever, I wish people were aware 
Dear Editor: tory eyes of the Notre Dame 
color," that I am just trying to could adequately associate with of and recognize the distinct I regret the offensive nature community. Additionally, all create dissention and contro­whites. One of my friends did identities of people from other of what follows, but it is time minority students at ND could versy, or that I am "raeist" not believe my background was cultures. This is the problem of that certain groups on campus be transferred into specialagainst whites. In my experi­any different than his, and told being a minority at Notre examined their actions and courses taught by minority pro­tmees, people do not understand me I was merely attempting to Dame-people are ignorant and possible consequences. fessors. This would liberate 
tlw issue of lwing a minority at be deviant. It wasn't until JPW indifferent to this. We at NPND {the Nazi Party at them from an educational pro­Notrn Dame. that he met my parents (and I believe the friend who met 
Notre Dame) would like to take cess dominated by white males. 
The point is not that minori­encountered their conspicuous my parents is now aware of my a few moments to congratulate It may even liberate them from ties feel they should bn treated accents and different customs) cultural personality, and for this the Students United for Respect the educational process alto­above others, or that we do not and realized that I did have a I am thankful. But I feel that on their successful efforts to gether. A minority dining hall 
want to be in sync with the rest distinct character and way of this understanding is not establish a multicultural center. with a special menu could be of Notre Dame. But we do de­life at home. present at Notre Dame, and 
Clearly, the hard work of these built on the ruins of St. sire to liVIJ in an environment Also, when I received a many minorities either lose dedicated students will improve Michael's Laundry. Of course,
that acknowledges and is not minority scholarship, people much of their cultural identity life at Notre Dame. NPND would have to insist that 
ignorant of our diverse identi­told me that I didn't deserve it in attending Notre Dame, or It goes without saying that minority students make full use ties that nrnanate from our dif­because they didn't believe I somewhat feel out of place with NPND has spent decades trying of their special facilities and ferent cultures. The problem, I was a minority. In another the rest of the campus. Of all to further the goals that SUFR stay, so to speak, out of sight.
feel. is that there is no cultural incident, when a Filipino friend the people I know who have left has recently adopted as its own. 
diversity at Notre Dame. of mine engaged in an or are dissatisfied with Notre For example, it was the Nazi By now, I hope everyoneIt is true that there is a fairly argument concerning her Dame, almost all of them are 
Party that established a center reading this is intelligent 
verage percentage of minori­identity and became angry with minorities, and I wish it did not for the Jewish people at enough to see the deranged na­s at Notre Dame, compared some of her friends, they tried have to be this way. 
Auschwitz more than fifty years ture of the "solutions" in this other universities, but there to calm her down, saying, "It's ago. article. But this, in fact, is the 
no valid avenues through okay, {we consider you) one of Cesar Termulo point. Such solutions are h to express or live out the us." St. Edward's Hall In the 1960's, our counter­deranged whether they are any baekgrounds minorities I also know of people who are Feb.18,1991 parts in the Klu Klux Klan proposed by a fascist group or me from. Consequently, when willing to admire black athletes fought bitter battles in an effort by a minority "rights" group. to preserve the centers of black The point of this absurdity is culture that existed in the back that integration, not separatism, sections of buses throughout the is the only viable solution. It's south. The KKK knew that non­time that SUFH realized this white segments of our and faced reality. population could never hope to find their true identities if For those of you who are integration was given a chance. thinking of attacking me as a racist, sexist, homophobic Now that the Administration xenophobe, I am a minority has taken the first step back to student who is insulted by the good old days of racial seg­SUFR's patronizing attitude. regation, we urge them to con­Demands for preferential sider several other avenues of treatment based on race are action. For instance, every non­themselves racist. white, non-male, non-hetero­sexual could be sent to a desig­Mlllnd Llmaye nated dorm so that they could Pangborn Hall live apart from the discrimina-Feb.13,1991 
~--~---~-----------------------­
Accent 
page 10 , Thursday, February 21, 1991 
'While the Lights Were Out' is not a typical 'who done it' mystery 
By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 
So you say you love murder mysteries? Do you think you can solve cases faster than Sherlock Holmes? If you answered "yes" to either of the above questions, "While the Lights Were Out" may be the play for you to see. 
"While the Lights Were Out," written by Jack Sharkey, is a farce of the murder-mystery genre. Performed by the Cavanaugh Hall Players, the show will open tonight and continue through Saturday with all shows starting at 8:10p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free, but donations will be collected for the Andy Sowder scholarship fund, which aids needy Notre Dame students. 
The play opens at the home of Clive and Monica Wickenham in Bermuda. The Wickenhams are preparing for the arrival of dinner guests when the mystery begins. The police show up to inquire about an anonymous note they had received about strange happenings that occur at the home. As the investigation about the note continues through act one, the dinner guests start to arrive, compounding the problem. At the end of the first act, a murder occurs, and everyone is a suspect. The rest of the play answers the question of "who done it," but not in the typical manner. 
While the first act basically introduces all of the characters and some of the convoluted relationships, the second act heightens the mystery to a ridiculous level. The last act explains exactly what happened when the lights were out. 
However, the explanation, although detailed is so ridiculous that it exceeds the limits of plausibility, even for a farce. Still, it is fairly humorous and the cast tries incredibly hard to make it work. 
For the mystery buffs, the plot is a lot of fun to follow. There are so many little details that are important to the events. The twists take the audience in every direction. However, if one pays close at­tention, a basic theory close to the explanation can be developed. 
Overall, the play is not as humorous as it can be. In some cases the cast tries too hard to make certain jokes work. In others, the cast breezes over some funny material, and it is lost in the shuffie. 
The fast pace of events makes things hard to follow at times, and the humor gets lost. But then again, some of the funniest scenes occur during the most rapid paced events. The play's inconsistency hurts the overall impression. 
The cast does a good job with the material. Mike Scarsella portrays the bumbling Inspector Braddock extremely well. Christina Saracino also makes a good performance in the fairly minor role of the maid, Nancy Stafford. The cast has a great time with the love scenes, which are incredibly sappy. But that should be expected with a farce. 
The only problem with the acting is the British accents of most the characters. The accents do not work well for most of the players, except for Christina Saracino, and detract from the dialogue. It would have been better to change the story a little and make the characters American. 
"While the Lights Were Out" works in some places and fails in others. It's worth going to see during one of the performances. It's also free, but don't forget the spare change. 
Celebrate African culture with the African Film Festival 
By KARA KEELING outsiders arrive because of an airplane accident Accent Writer and disturb the delicate balance of the household. This intrusion of the outsiders and 
An African Film Festival will be held at the the events which follow lead to a powerful Center for Social Concerns from Monday, conclusion. February 25 through Thursday, February 28, "Chocolat," Denis' first film, is described by 1991 at 8:00 p.m. The festival has been coordi­critics as a film that "incisively probes the bar­nated by Peter Walshe, the director of African riers between white and black, Europe and Studies and Sandy Barton, a staff person at the Africa, and defines an impenetrable gap esc. expressed through unspoken tension, unsettled 
glances, and unresolved vignettes." 
"I think that the West, particularly the United Africa's most celebrated film-maker, States, has a great deal to learn from Africa," Ousmane Sembene, brings to the festival on Professor Walshe states. He points out that Africa Wednesday, "Camp de Thiaroye." This drama, herself is struggling with her great poverty, but it based on actual events, begins in 1944 at a time is not a spiritual poverty, but a material one. in history when the colonial myth of white "These film-makers have a great deal to say superiority was beginning its decline and when about the human condition. We need to listen." an African consciousness was emerging. The 
The films to be featured are "Yaaba," story line deals with the problems involved with "Chocolat," "Camp de Thiaroye" and "A World the African troops serving in the French army at Apart." One film will be shown each day of the the end of World War II. festival. These recent films have been widely acclaimed in the European circuit. Closing the African Film Festival on Thursday 
On Monday, director Idrissa Oiedraogo's film, is "A World Apart," the directorial debut film of "Yaaba" (Grandmother), will be shown. The film Chris Menges. Menges has won two Academy centers on Bila, an independent boy of twelve, awards for Best Cinematography in "The Killing and on Sana, on old woman shunned by the rest Fields," and in "The Mission." Barbara Hershey, of the community because she is suspected of from the films "Beaches" and "Hoosiers," stars witchcraft. During the course of the film, an in this fact-based drama about a South African almost wordless but, strong personal relationship family caught up in the early stages of the is developed between the two characters as Bila struggle against apartheid. The film takes place matures. "Yaaba" takes place in the director's in 1963. It is the powerful story of a wife and own village in rural Africa. mother who is arrested for protesting apartheid, 
The festival explores Camaroon, a French leaving her teenage daughter alone to deal with colonial African country, on Tuesday to visit a the tumult. young French girl, her liberal-minded father, her The African Film Festival is being restless mother, and their handsome house sponsored by the African and African-American servant in the film "Chocolat." The word Studies Program, African Students Association, "chocolat" is a pun on the French slang for both Center for Social Concerns, and Minority, the words "black" and "cheated." The film itself is International and Non-Traditional Student Life based partly on the childhood experiences of its Affairs at Saint Mary's College. All films will be director, Claire Denis. In the film a group of shown in the Center for Social Concerns' multi 
purpose room at 8:00p.m. Admission is free. 




Thursday, February 21, 1991 The Observer 
Survey says baseball is tops 
(APJ -Major league baseball, traditionally dubbed "the national pastime," is a loser to pro· football in popularity in every section of the country and in every age category except 50-and-older. 
A comparison of Americans' attitudes about baseball and the NFL in the Sports Marketing Group survey re­leased Wednesday also shows broader fan appeal for football at every income level. 
Baseball is a favoritn or loved sport of 31 percent of the nation's adults, with support spread fairly evenly in all regions. 
The NFL is regarded the same way by 39 percent of the coun­try, but is strongest in the West at 44 percent. 
Younger fans nationwide pre­fer football by almost a 2-1 margin, with baseball listed as a favorite by 26 percent of 18­to-24 year olds, and football listed by 49 percent in the same age group. 
The difference narrows grad­ually with age, with both sports drawing the same support ­34 percent -among fans 50 and older. 
Fans cause 49ers to revert 
SAN FHANCISCO (APJ ­Planning to buy some football gear with that new San Francisco 49ers' logo? Don't do it. 
Calling the switch "a mis­take," the San Francisco 49ers reversed their decision to mod­ernize their helmet logo. As of Wednesday, it's back to the old, overlapping "SF" in a circle. That "49ers" emblazoned across the side is gone. Team owner Edward J. DeBartolo Jr. said the overwhelmingly negative response to the switch was the reason for going back to its traditional emblem. So, without playing a game under the new emblem, the 49ers reversed field and went back to the helmets they've used since 1962. 
"I was out there this past weekend and this started maybe Saturday or Sunday, our discussions," DeBartolo said in an interview on KPIX-TV. "The reason is the fans ... and the 
The more money people make, the more they tend to prefer football. The difference between the sports in households with under $15,000 income is 30 percent for the NFL, 27 percent for baseball. At $40,000 and over, the NFL leads 45 percent to 31 percent. 
Among women, baseball gets a slight edge. Overall, three of five men and one of five women say the NFL is a favorite or loved sport, compared with two of five men and one of five women who feel that way about baseball. 
to old logo 
fans are the important people to me. 
"I think that their response was so large that they wanted this logo to stay as it was that it was just a mistake on the part of the organization and on my part at this time to try and do something." 
DeBartolo said the team re­ceived thousands of letters and phone calls at its headquarters in Santa Clara, and at Candlestick Park, where the 49ers play their home games. 
page 11 

Paterno still happy with decision to join Big Ten 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Joe Paterno doesn't have any doubts about Penn State's decision to join the Big Ten instead of waiting for the new Big East football conference. 
"I don't have any regrets now," Paterno said. "We would still not be comfortable with the arrangement they have now because we needed an all­sports conference. Obviously, other people had to make arrangements to satisfy other concerns. 
"The fact that the other schools have a conference with Miami in it means everybody is coming out of it the best we can," Paterno said. "Obviously, if we had had put an all-sports conference together in 1980 or '81. we would have all been better for it, but that didn't happen." 
Paterno, speaking at a news conference to promote the Kickoff Classic against Georgia Tech on Aug. 28, said he felt good "because I was concerned for the Rutgers, Temples and Boston Colleges when we went to the Big Ten." 
Penn State had been a football independent and a member of the Atlantic 10 in other sports. The Nittany Lions hope to play a Big Ten football schedule as early as 1993, however Paterno hopes there will be room for Penn State's traditional rivals. 
"We'd like to play as many games against as many teams as we can in the East," Paterno said. "I would hope we could play Rutgers every once in a while, and Temple and Boston College. A lot of people were concerned about our traditional rivalries, but after we play Ohio State, Michigan and Michigan State, those will become big 
.. 
games for us." 
But facing Ohio State, Michigan and Michigan State on annual basis could mean that Penn State alumni and fans will have to get used to more frequent losses. 
"I look at playing eight con­ference games in a row and I think it will be a little tough to have the kinds of records we've had," Paterno said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for ne•t-day classlfieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

Not1ces 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NY TIMES, used and new books 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
corner of NO ave. & Howard 
10-5:30 everyday 
WORD PROCESSING -Term 
papers, reports, letters, etc. 
Expenenced legal secretary. 
(616) 699-7387 
SPRING BREAK\\\ $136.00 
ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE 
GREYHOUND GOES. 
RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 
WORD PROCESSING 
low Rates. 277-6091 
lost and Found 
LOST -ROYAL BLUE/GOLD WATERMAN FOUNTAIN PEN IN VICINITY OF ARCHITECTURE BLDG./OLD COLLEGE. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. 239·6546. 
LOST: 
MY CLOTHES. LAST SEEN IN 
A WASH. HALL DRYER. 
INCLUDES SHIRTS, RUGBY 
SWEATS, AND PANTS. 
I NEED MY CLOTHES BACK. 
$$$REWARD OFFERED$$$ 
X-1252 
FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in 
the snow near P.E. Call x4530. 
LOST: ONE BLACK HAIRED TROLL, VERY SENTIMENTAL 
AND NEEDED FOR SURVIVAL. 
CALL ME SOON... PLEASE. 
FOUND: WRISTWATCH ON FEB. 14 IN FRONT OF BREEN-PHILIPS. CALL 277-5912 OR 239-6886 (Romance Languages) 
LOST: gold ring in Gym 2 of ACC on Men 2/18. Family heirloom. 
Please call x2755 
Wanted 
ACCENT ON FUN\ Coed, sleepaway camp in Massachusetts seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all land & water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, model rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, AN. 
6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester. NY 
10707. 800-955-CAMP. 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. 
I NEED ride to Boston Will split gas & driving March 7, 8, or 9 Derek x1373 
For Rent 
GRAD. WEEKEND BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616 
Move Off Campus in '91-'92. 3 great houses avail. Sign lease before break and get discount. Call now 288-5653. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 
Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $t10 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
FREEDOM\ Rent the best houses. Prime locations. 233­9947. 
For Sale 
'IBM COMPATABLE' 1990 EPSON COMPUTER , PRINTER, TABLE & STAND $1750 OR PRICED BY ITEM CALL MARK 272·5167 
FOR SALE Macintosh Plus with two BOOK disk drives and word processing software. Call Alison at 283-4011. 
CD FOR SALE Double CD of "EAGLES UVE"­Excellent condition except for 2nd CD which skips a few times. BEST OFFER. Call NOW!\ x2051. 
"2 1 -way airline tickets to San Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 684·7203." 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
1/2 of round trip TIX to La Guardia Airport Leaves Mar 9 Sat from SB @12:25pm Call X1346 Annie 1-Way air ticket, SB-Tampa, 10 Mar. 7 am. $85. Call 272-7503. 
Tickets 
BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING 
BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING 
BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING 
Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm 7:30pm 
Wed. Feb. 27, 1991 7:30pm 
Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm 
Show your support and buy tickets from the student boxers Ill 
For sale-One rnd trp ticket to Orlando. Florida for Spring Break. Price Negotiable. Call x1891. 
FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,M\ to Newark.NJ-Ieave 3/B,return 3/17, must be female, VERY CHEAP I x4859 
For sale: one round trip TIX to Padre for spring break. Price negotiable. Call x4833. 
Personal 
CLUB 23 
Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 
Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 
Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 
Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 
Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
'"EXPO ROMA'" '"EXPO ROMA"' '"EXPO ROMA'" 
This week at Architecture Building. 
i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a great rider. 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL SAVE SAVE SAVEll CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF FUN AND SUN I! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800·426-771 0. 
Wanted: Caring, Energetic, Responsible Individual to care for 3 1/2 year old and I year old in my 
S.B. home. Flexible hours. Own transportation. References. $3.00/hr. Kathie 289-17D9 for interview. 
Need ride to NJ. 
Sprg brk. wilt pay$$$. Kevin x4043 
"Hello?" "Which Amy ... ?" WANDSTRAT. 
Arriba... 
Abajo... A\ lade ... AI otro.. AI centro... AI dentro!ll 
Hey Arne -drink "like a champ" tonight\! You ARE the rat's a­( I'd say it but we gave that up for Lentil!) 
Love ya, Razz 
Attention: 1991 BENGAL BOUTS 
PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE (Sandy, Bill, Alan, Howie, Sean, Mo. John, and Larissa) 
IMPORTANT pre-tournament meeting: Friday, Feb 22 @ 6pm ­JACC Boxing room 
??s or problems, call me. Until then, SELL SHIRTS\\\ Thanks-Amy 
FRITZ KLEIN • You are the ulitimate in masculinity. I want your ever-so -responding body\ Please end my passionate torture by fulfilling my every fantasy. Yours willingly and openly " a lustful admirer" 
""ATTENTION JUNIORS"" Vote the write-in ticket that is sweeping the campus: 
DENNIS-BRIAN-DAVE-TOM "Senior Class Government 
on a First-Name Basis" We're serious. Just write "Dennis Wolfe." 
Beginning Friday morning at Coach's ... THE DRIVE TO SURVIVE\\! 
'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'# The KING of the campus turns 21 today\\ I If you see MIKE FLECKER (and you'll know him by his strut) thank him for coming out and direct him to the J.V. bus. 
Love, Room 114 Farley 
'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'#'# 
Photography for Formals· Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539. 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
•• Spring Break Money " Notre Dame Fed Credit Union No Co-Signer Necessary "See Our Ad" 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB 
DANCE-A-THON 
UP MALL 
SAT. FEB 23 
I NEED A RIDE TO MN FOR SPRING BREAK. I WtLL HELP PAY GAS AND TOLLS. PLEASE CALL JENNIE X4831 
WHY ask WHY? ??? "GOOD QUESTION I" 
? ? ? 
LIVE@ McCORMICK'S FRI. 10 PM 
AMY WANDSTRAT AMY WANDSTRAT AMY WANDSTRAT 
Happy 22nd Birthday, 
BEER WENCH! Hope you have a great day, and we'll make the rounds tonight­maybe a couple games of late night Cricket at "Chez Commons", that is. if you can see the dartboard by thenII\ 
Love, your roommates and adoring fans 
OINK\ You're next... ...... 
Vote for THE FOUR CLASSMEN 
JESTER, at Club 23, Feb. 23rd "Guys, I'm out of cash\" Needed: 

A ride to Ft. Lauderdale 

area between approx. March 
5-7. Willing to help drive and 
pay for gas. Call 4936, Karen. 
Thanks\ 
BENJY· I think you're the hottest Thespian alive. Meet me at 
8:10 tonight? -Not a brunette 
BONESSI 
I stare and I stare 
'Cuz I'm very aware 
of how shy I am. 
Your dreams have come true 
so open your eyes, 
I'm staring at you. 
C-ya every Tues & Thurs 

ISO 'ISO 'ISO Skiing trip this Sat. Info and sign up at the office in La Fortune. Also T­shirts on sale for only $10. 
Don't you think this is funny? 
There are two penguins sitting in a bathtub and one penguin says to the other, " Can you pass me the soap?" The other penguin says, "I can't, I'm a typewriter..." 
You get it, don't you? 
Has the famed section 4A considered a coup? 
Alter all, 
"it was beyond my control ..." 
Jim Partridge, 
Did you nab the sharp suit? Along with the NO cufflinks, you were lookin' like quite the GO man... 
Class of 1991 "WEDDING WEEK" Bachelorette Party­
Storm'ns (behind Senor 
Kelly's)-bubbly, prizes 
9:30-? No Cover Bachelor Party-the Backer Show starts at 9 No Cover 
ROCK the 'Naugh 
Cavanaugh Hall Players present "While the Lights Were Out" Thursday, Friday, Saturday at 8:10 pm in Washington Hall. Come one. come all...the best part is, it is FREEl (but, of course, donations are most welcome) 
ROCK the 'Naugh 
Hi Rich Kenny .... 
r 
I 
I 
page 12 Scoreboard Thursday, February 21, 1991 
INDIANA TOP 20 
1. 
Gary Rooseveh (21-1) beat Highland 85-48; vs lndple Broad Ripple Fri. 

2. 
Bedlord N. Lawrence (18-1) at Colurrbus East 


Frl 
3. 
Martlnsvlne (20-1) at lndpls Perry Meridian Fri. 

4. 
lndpls Brebeut (18-1) vs Sheridan Fri. 

5. 
Washington Catholic (20-0) beat Evansville Day 117-55. 

6. 
Concord (16-2) baa Plymouth 71-48; vs Weotvi-Fri. 

7. 
Muncie Central (16-3) YO No.20 lndpla Ben Davis Fri. 

8. 
Muncie South (17-2) at Blackford Fri. 

9. 
War~ (18-1) beat S.Bend Adams 74-52; at Ekhart Central Fri. 

10. 
S.Bend Alley (t8·2) va Mich.Chy Rogers 


Wed. 1t. Jeffersonville (t7-2) vs Louisville Ballard Fri. 
12. 
Mlch.City Ellton (16-3) at Highland Fri. 

13. 
Terre Haute South ( 16-3) at lndpls Arlington 


Frl 
14. 
E.Chlcago Central (15-4) vs No.17 Andrean Frl 

15. 
Manchester (19-0) beat Northfield 80-69; at Maconaquah Fri. 

16. 
Anderson Highland (16-3) YO No.19 MI. Vernon (Hancock) Fri. 


17. Andrean (16-3) beat Lowell84-71; at No.14 .. E.Chlcago Fri. 
18. Evansville Bosse (15-4) at N-Albany Fri. 
19. M1.Vernon (Hancock) (17-3) at No.16 Anderson Highland Fri; vs lndpls Arlington Sat. 
20. lndpls Ben Davis (16-5) at No.7 Muncie Central Fri. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
Anwlcan~ TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms w~h Pete lncavtgla. oulllelder, on a one-year contract. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms whh Manny Lee, shortstop. on a one-year contract. 
NMion.JlMgue 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms w~h Dave Justice, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms wtth Moisea Alou. outfielder, and Kent Bottenfield and Doug Platt, pitcher, on one-year contracts. 
NEW YORK METS-Named Craig Sanders asslstan1 director of public relations. 
BASKETIIALL Nalonll BMkebl Aeeodll•on 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Traded Benoit Benjamin, center, to the Seattle SuperSonics lor Olden Polynlce, center, and Seattle's 1991 and 1993 first-round drafl choices. 
FOOTBALL 
......,.Footblllll..-gue 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Named Hal Hunter olfenslve line coach. DALLAS COWBOYS-Named Robert Ford tight end coach. 
HOCKEY Nlllionlt Hockey lMgue 
HARTFORD WHALERS-Traded Doug· Crossman, defenseman. to the Detroit Red Wings for Doug Houda, defenseman. Recalled Chris Tanclll, left wing, and Jergus Baca, defenseman, from Springfield of the American Hockey League. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Called up Brian McReynolds. center, from Binghamton of the American Hockey League. Recalled Paul Broten, right wing, from Binghamton alter a two--ek condhlonlng period. 
OLYIFICS 
U.S. OLYMPIC COMMITTEE-Named Bob Condron associate director of public Information and media relations and Jeff Cravens assistant director of public Information. 
SOCCER 
Anwrlc:Ml Soccer Laague 
MARYLAND BAYS-Announced the resignation 
of Pete Caringi, coach. 
National Profeaaionat Soccer League 
DETROIT ROCKERS-Placed Aaron Smith, 
mldllelder, on the suspended list. Signed Kirk 
Moser, midlielder. 
COLLEGE 
SOUTH CAROLINA-Named Tommy West assistant coach. 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
At.nlic Divlelon  
w  L  l'tt  (2  
Boston  39  13  .750  
Philadelphia  27  24  .529  11 112  
N-York  22  30  .423  17  
Washington  22  31  .415  t1 112  
N-Jersey  17  35  .327  22  
Miami  t5  36  .294  23 tl2  
Centnl Divlelon  
Chicago  37  14  .725  
Detroh  37  17  .685  1 t12  
Milwaukee  33  20  .623  5  
Atlanta  28  24  .538  9112  
Indiana  23  28  .451  14  
Cleveland  19  34  .358  19  
Charlotte  15  36  .294  22  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
~Divielon  
w  L  l'tt  (2  
San Antonio  33  16  .673  
Utah  34  17  .667  
Houston  29  23  .558  5112  
Dallas  20  30  .400  13 112  
Minnesota  17  34  .333  17  
Orlando  15  36  .294  19  
Denver  14  36  .280  19112  
Pacific Divielon  
Portland  42  10  .808  
LA Lakers  38  13  .745  3112  
Phoenix  34  17  .667  7112  
Golden State  29  22  .569  12 112  
Seattle  23  27  .460  18  
LA Clippers  16  35  .314  25112  
Sacramento  t5  35  .300  26  
W~y'sGemee  

Cleveland 118. Sacramento 104 Detro" 97, Atlanta 89 Indiana 122. Orlando 120, OT Golden State 108, Minnesota 105 Phoenix t t3, LA Clippers 93 
Thunday'e Gemee Seattle at N-York, 7:30p.m. Miami at Washington, 7:30 p.m. LA Lakers a1 Dallas, 8:30p.m. Milwaukee at Houston, 8:30p.m. Portland at Denver, 9:30p.m. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Pmc:k Oivielon 
w L T I'll NY Rangers 3t 21 9 71 Pittsburgh 31 26 3 65 Philadelphia 29 27 6 64 N-Jersey 25 25 11 61 Washington 27 31 3 57 NY Islanders 21 32 8 50 
Adams lllvlalon 
x-Boston 36 18 8 80 Montreal 32 24 7 71 Hartford 28 27r6-~ 62 Buffalo 22 25 t4 58 Quebec 12 38 11 35 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Nonie lllvlelon 
w L T I'll x-St. Louis 36 17 7 79 Chicago 36 20 5 77 Detrott 26 30 7 59 Minnesota 21 32 tO 52 Toronto 17 38 6 40 Smythe DivWon Los Angeles 33 20 7 73 Calgary 32 21 7 71 Edmonton 29 29 3 61 Winnipeg 22 31 1t 55 Vancouwr 21 35 7 49 
x-cllnched playoff berth 
w....-day'e Gamee 
Late Game Not Included Hartford 5, Montreal 3 Minnesota 5, Edmonton 1 Vancouver 5, Winnipeg 5, tie Quebec at Los Angeles, (n) 
Thunday'e a.m.. 
N.Y. 
Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35 p:m. Toronto at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 

N.Y. 
Islanders at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Vanoouver at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 


Fridey'e Gsmee Pittsburgh at N-Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 8:05p.m. Los Angeles at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Detroit at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
L10 8·2 4-6 4-6 3-7 3-7 4-6 
8-2 6-4 6-4 4-6 6-4 5-5 2-8 
L10 4-6 7-3 7-3 6-4 3-7 5-5 4-6 
7-3 8-2 7-3 5-5 4-6 2-8 3-7 
Gl' 
229 
256 
204 
212 195 179 
235 215 180 210 17t 
Gl' 
235 201 217 
200 
177 
249 249 
208 
213 189 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared
SlrHk Harne Awwy Coni 
Wednesday:

Lost 1 23-4 16·9 23-9 1. UNLV (23-0) did not play. Next: vs. Pacllic U., 
Won2 18-7 9-t7 19-12 
Thursday.

Lost 1 11-16 11-14 13-19 2. Ohio State (23-t) beat Illinois 73-64. Next: vs.
lost 1 15-8 7-23 14-18 Minnesota, Saturday. 
Won1 12-14 5-21 10-20 3. Arkansas (26·2) beat Southern Methodist 79­Lost t 1t-15 4-2t 8-24 70. Next: a! Texas A&M, Saturday. 
4. Indiana (22-3) did not play. Next: vs. Iowa,Won7 21-3 16-11 24-7 
Thursday.

Won2 23-4 14-13 25-9 5. Syracuse (23-4) lost to No. t8 St. John's n­Won3 23-4 10-16 21-12 72. Next:.~s.,No. 22 Pittsburgh, Sunday. 
Lost 1 19-6 9-18 17-18 6. North Ci!Jioiina (20-4) did not play. Next: vs.
Won4 17-8 6-20 14-17 Clemson, Saturday. 
Won1 13-15 6-19 12-20 7. Duke (23-5) beat North Carolina State 72-65. 
Lost3 11-16 4-20 9-24 Next: at No. 9 Arizona, Sunday. 
8. Kansas (19-5) lost to Colorado 79-71. Next: vs. Oklahoma, Sa!urday. 
SlrHk Home Awwy Coni 
9. Arizona (20-5) did not play. Next: vs.

Lost 3 20-6 13-10 22-11 
Cal~ornia, Thursday.

Won2 24-4 10-13 24-9 10. Lhah (24-2) did not play. Next: at ColoradoLost 1 19-8 10-15 17-16 State, Thursday. 
Lost 1 13-12 7-18 12-20 1t. Southern Mississippi (20-4) lost to Clnclnna!l
Lost 1 12-12 5-22 12-25 86-72. Next: at Florida State, Tuesday. 
Lost 3 13-14 2-22 11-22 12. Kentucky (19-6) lost to Vanderbih 98-87. 
Lost 6 11-13 3-23 6-24 Next: a! Florida, Saturday. 
13. East Tennessee State (24-3) did not play. 
Wont 27-2 15-8 25-8 Next: at Marshall, Saturday. 
Won2 22-5 16-8 24-9 14. Nebraska (22-5) lost to Missouri 91-71. Next: Won2 20-4 14-13 22-11 vs. Kansas State, Saturday. 
Won1 18-6 11-16 18-15 15. N-Mexico State (19-3) did not play. Next:Lost3 15-7 8-20 11-16 at Lhah State, Thursday. 
Lost 2 12-12 4-23 12-19 16. Oklahoma State (19-5) did not play. Next: vs.
Lost3 14-11 1-24 10-21 Colorado, Sunday. 
17. 
UCLA (18-7) did not play. Next: vs. Oregon. Thursday. 

18. 
St. John's (18-6) beat No.7 Syracuse n-72. Neld: YL Noire 0 ..... 81-aon Squ.1t a-dan, s.m.day. 

19. 
LSU (18-7) beat Mississippl89-78. Next: vs. Tennessee, Saturday. 

20. 
Virginia (19-8) did not play. Next: at North Carolina State, Saturday. 

21. 
Mississippi State (18-6) beat Florida 81-67. Next: at Alabama, Saturday. 

22. 
Pittsburgh (19-8) beat No. 25 Georgetown 78-65. Next: at No. 5 Syracuse, Sunday. 

23. 
Princeton (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. Colurrbia, Friday. 


24. 
Seton Hall (17-7) did not play. Next: vs. Villanova, Saturday. 

25. 
Georgetown (15-9) lost to No. 22 Pittsburgh 


78-65. Next: vs. Connecticut, Saturday. GA Harne Awwy Div 191 18·9-5 13-12-4 11-8-3 225 20-11·1 11-15-2 15-11-0 193 16-12-4 13-15-2 9-12-5 202 17-8-7 8-17-4 9-12-5 210 15-11-2 12-20-1 14-t 1-1 222 12-15-5 9-17-3 9-13-4 
202 21-7-3 15-11-5 15-7-3 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 

How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams fared Wednesday: 
1. 
Virginia (25-1) beat Maryland 1 t 1-74. 

2. 
Penn State (23-1) did not play. 

3. 
Georgia (23-2) beat Alabama 83-47. 

4. 
Tennessee (2t-4) did not play. 


5. 
Auburn (23-3) beat Alabama State 95-54. 

6. 
Purdue (21-2) did not play. 


7. 
North Carolina State (22-4) at Wake Forest 89-67. 

8. 
Western Kenlucky (23-1) beat T annes see Tech 95-88, 20T. 

9. 
Arkansas (22-3) did not play. 

10. 
Washington (19-3) did not play. 

11. 
Stanford (19·4) did not play. 


12. 
LSU (20-6) lost to No. 16 Mississippi 75-73. 

13. 
Rutgers (20-3) did not play. 


14. 
Connecticut (22-3) beat Northeastern 86-55. 

15. 
Texas (17-6) did not play. 


16. 
Mississippi (19-6) beat No. 12 LSU 75-73. 

17. 
UNLV (20-5) at UC Santa Barbara 

18. 
Northwestern (17-6) did not play. 


19. 
Providence (21-4) beat Syracuse 106-60. 

20. 
Stephen F. Austin (20-3) did not play. 

21. 
Iowa (15-7) did not play. 



22. Non O.me (111-5) cld not play. 

23. 
Long Beach State (16-7) va. Hawaii. 

24. 
Clemson (17-8) did not play. 


25. 
Oklahoma Stale (22-4) beat Kansas State 79-61. 


NCAA SCORES 
EAST Holy Cross 75, Fordham 12 Pittsburgh 78, Georgetown 65 Siena 93, La Salle 76 St. John's n, Syracuse 72 
SOUTH Duke 72, N. Caronna St. 65 GIIOfgia 73, Alabama 88 LSU 89, Mississippi 78 Louisville 104. SW Louisiana 77 Mississippi St. 81, Florida 67 Vanderbltt 98. Kentucky 87 
..DWEST Cincinnati 86, Southern Miss. 72 Missouri 91, Nebraska 7t Notre O.me 80, O.Paul 77, OT Ohio St. 73, Illinois 64 Ohio U. 63, Ball St. 60 
SOUTHWEST Arkansas 79, Southern Math. 70 Houston 74, Texas Tech 59 Iowa St. 97, Oklahoma 88 Texas A&M 66, Baylor 6t 
FAR WEST Colorado 79, Kansas 7 t 

197 19-11·2 13-13-5 12-10-4 198 16-12-3 12-15-3 9-10-3 211 11·11-9 11-14-5 6-10-6 268 6-18-7 6-20-4 6-t 1·6 
GA Harne Awwy Div 191 18-6-5 18-11-2 14-7-2 161 19-7-3 17-13-2 14-6-2 233 21-11-0 5-19-7 11-12·3 216 13-14-4 S.t8-6 7-13-3 248 11·20-2 6-18-4 7-15-2 
194 18-8-4 15-12-3 11-7-4 190 17-7-2 15-14-5 11-6-3 204 17-11-1 12-18-2 10-11-2 223 14-13-5 8-18-6 8-6~ 245 t2-14-4 9-21-3 7-17-1 


ATTENTION SENIORS """"
........ 
COME OUT AND SUPPORT 
i.Jf 

KRISS! DAVIS SARA lii!BSCHER 

IN THEIR FINAL HOME GAME and HELP SET A RECORD CROWD 11 
# 22 NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S BASKETBALL vs. 
.. 
OLD DOMINION 
~ Saturday, February 23, 1991 Joyce Alhletic & Convocation Center 
2:00 pm 
THf FIGHTING 
• IRISH 
FOR THE RECORD fin thejr four mrs 1987 • !991 )· 
• 
Overall Record 82 • 30 


• MCC Conference Champions (! 988-1989, I 989-1990) 
• 
.634 Winning Percentage 

• 1990-91 MCC Regular Season Champions 
• 
Plan to land their first NCAA Tournament Bid in Program's llislory !! 

The Observer 
Thursday, February 21, 1991 page 13 
Ismail prepares to show his stuff to NFL teams today 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­The New England Patriots and the Cleveland Browns, the NFL teams holding the No. 1 and 2 draft picks. are among 11 tnams invitnd to send scouts to watch Haghib "Hocket" Ismail run through his speedy paces on Thursday. 
"We trind to targnt tnams we thought would have a serious internst in him, and bn able to do something about it," agent Louis Duvernay said Wmlnnsday from the Oakland, Calif.. offices of Morcom Sports Enterprises. 
Ismail could earn as much as $25 million from a variety of 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
and Pat Loahy (H-1, 3.14). Sinnns led all Division-] pitdwrs in EHA last ynar, and l.mthy has the mechanics of a big-league pitcher, or batter. Freshman Tom Prien, who was named Unitnd Stat1~s Baseball Assodation Player of the Year in Illinois as a senior in high school, is expected to round out tlw inner core of the starting rotation. 
Helief Pitcher: Murphy is quite high on Alan Walania (5­0, 3.09) and Chris Michalak (4­2, 3.2H), two sophomores who made immediate impacts on the team last year. 
"Walania's the pitcher who's made the most improvements," said Murphy. "He'll pitch a lot of innings for us. And there'II bo a point in the season when people will be looking at Michalak as Notrn Dame's main man on the mound." 
Tony l.ivorsi (1-2, 2.79), a sources, including an NFL con­tract, bonuses, and endorse­ments, says a source who will be close to any negotiations. 
Also invited to watch Ismail were the Atlanta Falcons, Denver Broncos, New York Jets, San Diego Chargers, Detroit Lions, Phoenix Cardinals, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Dallas Cowboys and Seattle Seahawks. 
The invitations were not meant to exclude other teams, Duvernay said. "I would hope that even more would show." 
The junior flanker and return speeialist from Wilkes-Barre, Pa. gave up his final season of 
fifth-year senior whose fastball Murphy often compares with a schoolgirl's, will see considerable time at middle relinf, and possibly as the team's fourth starter. 
Catcher: Junior Cory Mee (.241 batting average, 23 RBI), a converted second baseman, probably will fill the hole that 1990 captain Ed Lund left. Freshman Matt Haas and senior Matt Krall {.304, 46 at­bats) will both see time there. 
First base: Junior team captain Joe Binkiewicz (.322, 4 IIH, 29 RBI) has played here often in the past, and will continue to do so. But Murphy will play senior Frank Jacobs (.277, 11 IIR, 49 RBI), one of the team's highest lineup priorities, when he can't accommodate him elsewhere. Jacobs blazed through the fall baseball season with two home runs, eight RBI and six hits in 14 at bats. 
"Jacobs has definitely matured in the game," said Murphy. "lie understands baseball better. and is 100 
eligibility to enter the draft a year early. He did not attend the NFL scouting combine held earlier this month in Indianapolis, citing a schedul­ing conflict. 
Ismail, a two-time All­American and runner-up for the 1990 Heisman Trophy, was not attempting to enhance his mystique by avoiding the com­bine, his agent said. 
"He's not showing off," said Duvernay. "The teams ex­pressed an interest in working him out, and Rocket wants to cooperate." 
The Patriots, who finished 1­15 last season, haven't talked about whether the team would keep the top pick or trade. Chief executive officer Sam Jankovich expressed interest when Ismail entered the draft but cautioned it was "far too early" to decide. 
Jankovich was unavailable for comment Wednesday and the Patriots' public relations office did not return phone calls. 
"They're just playing it close to the vest at this point," Duvernay said. Asked whether teams had approached the Patriots about a trade, or whether the team was inter-
Shortstop: Senior Mike Coss, Murphy's only four-year starter, will set anchor at this position. Coss hit .290 in 57 games last season, and needs only 41 more appearances to be the all­time leader in games played. He suffered a knee injury in the preseason but is healthy enough to play against Dartmouth today. 
Third base: Junior Craig Counsell, who Murphy calls "the most complete baseball player" on the team, hit .265 last season with 4 home runs and 33 RBI. If Coss gets hurt, Counsell could move to short and Mee could go to third. 
Left field: Sophomore Edwin Hartwell (.258, 2 HR, 15 HBI in 62 at-bats) and freshman Irv Smith (tight-end on football team) both have made great strides in the preseason. Look also for Jacobs at this position at times. 
Center field: Junior Dan Bautch (.267, 29 stolen bases) is the speedy man on the team. He's an excellent defensive player and he gets on base. l-Ie 
ested, he said, "I haven't the slightest idea." 
The scouts will watch the 5­foot-1 0, 175-pound speedster run the 40-yard dash and pass patterns. His speed helped him return five kickoffs for touch­downs at Notre Dame, gain 4,187 all-purpose yards and a total of 15 touchdowns in three seasons. 
lie currently is competing on the Notre Dame track team and ran the 55-meter dash in a school-reeord 6.07 seconds earlier this month, qualifying for next month's NCAA meet. 
had a .399 on-base percentage last year. Hartwell and Smith could play center if nnnded. 
Right field: Sophomore Eric Danapilis is one of Murphy's deadliest offensive weapons. IIe hit .429 last season, with 6 home runs and 31 RBI. lie led the team in hits (60), despite having missed 18 games. His batting average was the highest for a freshman in Notre Dame history, second on the all-time list (1988 grad Dan Peltier's .446 is the best). 
"If Eric Danapilis stays healthy, he'll be as successful as anybody we've got," said Murphy. 
Designated hitter: Adam Maisano, a sophomore who surprised everyone last year with his extraordinary ability to hit the fastball, will see time at this position. This 5-8, 240­pound specimen drove in 37 runs in 87 at-bats, averaging 
1.25 runs for each hit. When Murphy uses another designated hitter, such as Jacobs, Maisano most likely will be used as a pinch hitter. 

Pat Murphy 
times better defensively. He'II never be a guy that hits .400, but what he has, he has better than any pro prospect in the country-that's power. He's got the most power of any pro prospect in the past five years." 
Second base: Freshman Greg Layson seems to have preseason dibs at this position (5 for 18 for a .278 avg. in the fall), but Mee may provide relief if he doesn't make the transition quickly from high school to college. 
DISTINGUISHED 
Will somebody please clue me in? What is a DGSA? 
It's a what and a who. The DGSA is the DISTJNGUISHED GRADUATE STUDENT AWARD. It will be presented annually by the Alumni Association and the Graduate School to the graduate student who has distinguished himself or herself through academic standing and service during his or her career at Notre Dame. 
Is this another obscure award for an obscure student? 
No, it's not. Because this is the first year of the award, 
G  our hope is to promote it as much as we can.  But our  
R A  promotions will do very little to bring the award out of obscurity without the support and input from those whom it was meant to honor -the graduate students.  
D  How can I nominate someone?  
u  It's easy.  Stop by the Alumni Association in the Main  
A T  Building during the daytime and pick up an application. If you want, you can even take two. Nominations from students are encouraged and appreciated. Who knows  
E  more about deserving grad students than other students?  

What's the deadline for nominations? February 28, 1991 Who selects the winner? A committee of administrators, professors, and students 
collaborate to select the most deserving candidate. Why hasn't anybody told us about this DGSA before? This is the inaugural year of the annual award. Our hope 
is that everyone who reads this will share it with a friend who will share it with another friend and so on and so on... 
AWARD 
S' 
T 
u 
D 
E N T 
• • THE RISE AND fALL OF A SMALLIll fORTUNE COOKIE fACTORY 
z 
WED., FEB. 27-SAT., MARCH 2 8:10PM SUN., MARCH 3 3:10PM 
::::. =~~:~~:,, :,~~~,. Cilin•u= :::·:::~:~~~:~~:..::·~;,~:~,';~~:::····· 
or at the door. 
MasterCard 

0 
M. 
Sponsored hy An Midwest members and friends in partnership with the Na­tional Endowment I<H· the Atts and spl'dal assist:IIKl" from Hudson's. 

---~--~ 
,~-­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1991 

' 
-Syracuse falls; LSU, Pitt win 
Malik Sealy scored 23 points and the other St. John's
I 
starters reached double digits
I I 
as the 18th-ranked Redmen I beat No. 5 Syracuse 77-72 on 
I 
Wednesday night. The Redmen (18-6, 9-6), who had to hold off a late 3-point
I 
barrage by the Orangemen, had lost four of six games and had dropped from the leaders in the Big East with the slump. They still have a chance at winning the title with just one conference game remaining, Monday night against Georgetown. 
Syracuse (23-4, 9-4), which had a six-game winning streak snapped, entered play on Wednesday with a two-game lead in the conference. 
Billy Owens, who led Syracuse with 28 points, hit a long jumper with 14:13 to play that brought the Orangemen within 42-38. keyed a decisive sec­ond-half spree. 
Saint Mary's beats Bethel, Grace 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 
After suffering three straight 
losses, the Saint Mary's bas­
ketball team regrouped and 
won two games this week. 
On Tuesday, Saint Mary's had 
an impressive win over Bethel 
College 87-65. 
Throughout the frrst half, the Belles had good execution, passing, and rebounding . The team as a whole shot consistently as well. 
Junior Catherine Restovich 
led the Belles scoring effort 
with 18 points. 
Four other Saint Mary's play­
ers were also in double figures. 
Sophomore Kim Holmes had 14 
points and junior Janet Libbing 
contributed 13. Coming off the 
bench were Courtney Swift and 
Linda Garrett with 17 and 11 
points, respectively. 
Buffalo Bill head coach Marv Levy.
Football 
His collegiate head coaching experience also includes stops
continued from page 16 
at Elmhurst (Ill.) College (1976­
83) and Illinois Benedictine Division II Kodak coach of the (1970-74). He served as year for the Midwest Region in offensive coordinator at '89, as well as Great Lakes Northern Illinois in 1975. Conference coach of the year. His Lakers led the nation in At Elmhurst, Beck put scoring (44.5 points) and total together an eight-year mark of offense (480.8 yards) in '89 50-22, including 8-1 records in 
Prior to coming to Grand '80 and '83. His teams ranked Valley State, Beck spent the in the top 10 for five straight 1984 season as offensive years and his '83 team led backfield coach of the Chicago NCAA Division III teams in total Blitz of the United States offense (483.3 yards) and Football League under current scoring (38.1 points). 
THINKING ABOUT LAW SCHOOL? 
WANT TO FIND OUT THE REAL DEAL 
FROM LAW STUDENTS WHO KNOW? 
THEN COME JOIN US FOR INFORMAL CONVERSATION AT THE 
ND/SMC PRE-LAW SOCIAL THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1991 
7:30p.m. LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED ALL ARE INVITED TO ATIEND 
SPONSORED BY THE WOMEN'S LEGAL FORUM 
No. 19 LSU 89, Mississippi 78 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 38 points and keyed a decisive sec­ond-half spree Wednesday night as No. 19 LSU won its fifth straight Southeastern Conference game, 89-78 over Mississippi. 
O'Neal, who had more than 33 points for the fourth time in five games, scored 9 straight for in a 17-4 surge that pushed the Tigers (18-7, 11-4) from a 46­45 deficit to a 62-51 lead with 
12:32 left. The sophomore had two slam dunks, a short layup and three free throws in the spurt that put the Tigers up for good. 
The Tigers got most of their points from inside, scoring 56 in the paint, including 34 in the second half. Forty-two points came on layups, 9 by O'Neal. 
Harold Boudreaux added 22 points for LSU and Vernell Singleton added 19. 
The game was a close contest at the half with the Belles tak­ing a slim 37-35 lead. 
Bethel came out weak in the second half and Saint Mary's gained a 57-41 advantage with 11 minutes remaining in the game. 
"The game went smoothly and we were very effective throughout the game," said Coach Marv Wood. "Our shots were going in and the defense rebounded after a weak first half start." 
With a positive win under their belts the Belles took the court against Grace College. The game was a sloppy 82-64 victory but the Belles improved their record to 11-9. 
The offense had poor chem­istry throughout the game, but defensively the Belles were consistent in rebounding and containing the Grace offense. 
"The offense did not click 
For Ole Miss {7-17, 1-14), which led 38-36 at halftime, it was the third straight game in which the Rebels led a Top 25 team at the break and lost in the final 20 minutes. 
No. 22 Pittsburgh 78, No. 25 Georgetown 65 
Sean Miller scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half Wednesday night as No. 22 Pittsburgh gained sole posses­sion of second place in the Big East with a 78-65 victory over 25th-ranked Georgetown. 
The Panthers (19-8, 8-5), trail league-leading Syracuse by a game. Georgetown (15-9, 7-6) slipped to fourth in the league by losing its third straight game. The Hoyas are 11-9 this season against Division I teams. 
Miller scored eight unan­swered points in a span of 1:29, helping the Panthers to a 49-33 lead with 14:52 remaining. 
tonight," commented Wood. "It was a game where one team tried to give it away and the other didn't want to take it." 
Janet Libbing led the Belles with an impressive 30 points. Senior Mea Tetterborn added 14. 
"Once we adjusted to Grace's defense we moved the ball around well and hit the boards," said junior Annie Hartzel. 
Saint Mary's switched to the zone in the second half and forced Grace to shoot from the perimeter. 
The Belles face a tough Saint Francis squad Saturday after­noon at home. St. Francis could pose a problem for the Belles considering they have three six-footers on their roster. This will be the last game of the sea­son for Saint Mary's, so the team is psyched for a final home winner. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will he held Sunday, Feb. 24 from 12-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shag. A $5 entry fee is required. 

•WOMEN'S 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held in early March, separately from the sign-ups for Bookstore this Sunday. Players can participate in both tournaments but must sign-up for each. Also, anyone interested in being a commissioners-contact Diane at x1093. 

•FELLOWSHIP 
OF CHRISTIAN ATHLETES will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Important events coming up: Midwest College Retreat and Prayer Week. If you're interested in either, but can't make the meeting, call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 

•MEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL: this Friday, Feb. 22 at 8 p.m., Notre Dame will take on arch-rival Michigan State. This match promises to be one of the best the Irish will host all season. Come out for great volleyball action in the JACC pit. Admission is free! 

•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE will have practice on Sunday from 4-6 p.m. at Angela .Athletic Facility. Bring a blank check for ·ackets. Questions? Call Cathy at 284-4456. 


.MEN'S INTERHALL BASKETBALL SEMI-FINALS will be held tonight in Gym 1 of the Joyce ACC. Morissey faces Grace at 7 pm, and Cavanaugh plays Flanner at 8 pm. 

$$$ MONEY $$$ 
for 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
You'll have all summer 
• 
Deferred Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


~ NO~EDAME 

~ F::DERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from th·a Unlversit Thursday, February 21, 1991 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 "The Name of 62 Matty of
Thursday 
the Rose" baseball
1 Ski lift 
author 
63 Ominous date 6:30 p.m. Workshop-Session I, "Career/Major Deci­s Edible jack fish 
34 The bottom line 65 A direction, to 
sion Making" Hoom 303, University Counseling Center, 9 Famed Italian 
35 Actor Kevin and Juan
239-7336. physician: 
ex-Yankee 
66 Baal, e.g. 
1844-1926 
pitcher 
67 Robert-­
14 Actor Cronyn 
7:30 p.m. CSC. Dr. Pathe Diagne, visiting professor 36 Valens song: 68 Cheesecake 
from Cornnll Univnrsity. Malian Emperor Bakari II (1312) 15 Spun 1958 joints and Christopher Columbus (1492).. Sponsored by NDASA, 16 He wrote "The 39 Spigot 69 Hong Kong coin 
Hollow Men" 
departm1~nts of Government and History, African and 41 Arranges 70 Departed
17 Norwegian king 42 TV critic and 
African-Amnrican Program and Anthropology. 
10 Actress Moran ex-German 19 ---foot oil president DOWN
8 p.m. Play. "While the Lights Were Out," Produced by 
44 Coach Holtz 
20 The combatants 
Cavanaugh Hall Players. Washington Hall. Sponsored by 1 My--,
during 25 46 Kind of cake 
Student Activities and HPC. Vietnamese
Across 47 North leader town 23 Thrice: Comb. 51 Asian tongue 
8 & 10:30 p.m. Film. "Better Off Dnad." Cushing Audi­2 Flower part 
form 52 Own, to I an 3 Commingle: 
torium. 
24 Swiss river 53 South leader Abbr. 
251861-65 61 Untersee craft 4 Prove wrong 
Friday 
5 Do a bailiff's job 6 Kan. product
12:15 p.m., CSC, Hm 124. Friday Forum at the CSC. Sis­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Eager 
ter Kathleen Cannon, O.P., ND Provost's Office. Talk-dis­

a Kind of floss
cussion: "Update: Faculty/Student Committee on 
9 Beauregard and 
­
Women" 
Sherman 10 Actor Vidov 11 Fabulist 28Know--480'Gorman 57 Ye --Shoppe
LECTURES 
(smarty) design

12 "I've-Gal in 58 High time 
29 Branco, e.g. 49 Bush's old org. 
Kalamazoo" 59 "Monty Python" 
4 p.m. 1990-91 Henkels Visiting Scholar Series: Collo­
50 Displayed30 Sign up
13 ·--bitsy star
53 Kind of mail 
quium in the History and Philosophy of Science, "Our 
31 Thrash again 

21 Common 54 Black 60 "Mine eyes ..
Brains, Ourselves: Heneclions on Neuroethical Ques­
Market initials 32 Vice prin. have--...
55 In the bow
tions," Patricia Smith Churchland, professor, UCSD. Hes­
33 Cameroon town 

22 Sell 56 Destiny 64 Tennis unit 
burgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by College of Arts and 
newspapers 37 Powerful D.C. 
Lnttnrs, Departments of Biological Sciences, Philosophy, 
25 P. Rose broke lobby 
this man's 38 Olympians
Hnilly Cnnter and Continuing Medical Education of St. 
Answers to any three clues in this record . 400ahu food
.Joseph Medical Center. 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 26 Sharpener 43 Mosel feeder phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
27 Fido's doc 45 Childish minute).
7:30 p.m. The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspec­
tive on War and Peace, "Peacemaking: The Gospel Im­JWrative," Father Nicholas Ayo. Tom Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by CSC and Campus Ministry. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Italian Grilled Chicken Breast Veal Parmesan Cheese & Veg Pot Pie 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUIIIER JAY HOSLER 
"ITS NOT TI-\~T I MIND
M'l ESSA.'{ \':> El>lT\Tl.ED. "~ffiR. SC.\.\00\.. A.I M'{ 
BEING CH~\Nto \N 111£ I-lOOSE ' ... A~~M ... 
Bt>StMt.NT, lfS JUST ThAI WHEN 1\\E. ME~\ \S n\lir>WN IXYt.IN I \\\( Rfo..~ 1-\PIIJE 11-\E 
AD~"NT~ Of NU~B\:.RS, 
mo ru~... 
,.1/~ 
~ -­

-----------------..... r----n,---------------------1 
•
f 
i
• 
i
l
t 
• 
~ 
The dam bursts 
THURSDAY FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
BEllER OFF 
DEAD 
~~-PAOOUCllONS PQt ')l NIAI()N LliSTRIRt 'TEP RY WARNl:R BROS. 
® 
!+. \Y.I\R~ER l'OMMI \;ll:O~Tltl:'l.~l:llMro\S' ,
' .........~ ....................... 

. .. 
8 & 10:30 PM $2 ADMISSION CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 
Thursday, February 21, 1991
page 16 

Sweet provides heroics for Irish in overtime 
Eight-footer ends DePaul's eight-game winning streak 
By CHRIS COONEY the hole and try to draw the had a lot of transition buckets Assistant Sports Editor foul." and I got some," said Bennett. 
The upset pushes the Irish "They shut that down in the Upsets can be Sweet. record up to 11-16, while the second half." After he missed the potential· Blue Demons fall to 16-8. DePaul went on a 19-6 scor­
winning shot in regulation, "I think our kids were sur­ing spree late in the first half to Notre Dame's Daimon Sweet prised at how hard Notre Dame take the lead from the Irish. clinched an 80-77 Irish victory came out and played," said De­Tim Singleton's controversial over DePaul Wednesday night. Paul coach Joey Meyer. "Notre layup at the buzzer brought the With :38 seconds remaining in Dame is not dead and buried. I Irish back to within two, 40-38. overtime, Sweet sunk an eight­think our kids forgot and lis­Terry Davis lead the Blue foot jumper in front of the bas­tened to other people." Demons with 25 points while ket, and then iced the win with Meyer and Phelps credited Stephen Howard contributed a free throw and steal that put the Irish zone defense for 14.
-the game out of Blue Demon shutting down Blue Demon star The Texas Express gave the reach. David Booth at critical . Irish their first second half lead 
"It was a great game for moments. Despite Booth's 21 when Sweet powered down the Sweet to win," said Notre Dame points, Phelps credited Keith court and dished the ball ofT to coach Digger Phelps. "It was a Tower for Booth's dismal six of Bennett, who gladly returned great win for the kids and for 15 shooting under the basket. the favor with a last second what they've gone through. "I thought Keith Tower had pass to Sweet. The easy layup After the way we played at three or four key defensive re­drew the foul, and the ensuing Temple and Monday night, the bounds the end of regulation free throw put Notre Dame on kids bounced back and fought." and in overtime" said Phelps. top, 64-63. 
Sweet's game-winner was fit­Tower grabbed 10 rebounds to But DePaul fought right back, ting redemption. The junior, power the Irish to a 34-29 edge scoring six straight. After both who scored a career-high 26 on the boards. teams missed a few from the points, could have prevented Meyer was disappointed that charity stripe, Tower, who fin­the overtime by sinking a shot the Blue Demons could not sink ished with 12 points, tied the as the clock expired. second shots to pull away from game at 70 with a jumper from 
With the score tied at 70, De­the Irish. the left baseline. Paul's Brad Niemann attempted "We had a lot of opportunities The Irish pulled out of their an errant three-pointer. Sweet to win it, but we missed free­shooting slump, connecting on dribbled the length of the court, throws and we didn't convert 59.6 percent of their attempts 
but instead of driving straight after the breaks," Meyer said. while DePaul competed just 41 to the basket, he sidestepped The Irish jumped to an early percent. left and put up a shot that was 26-17 lead, largely behind the The Blue Demon loss ends an wide to the right. intense play of Elmer Bennett. eight-game winning streak. 
"I just tried to drop a move Before fouling out with 2:09 
(on the defender)," said Sweet. remaining in regulation, the The Irish will try to hold onto "I should have taken it to the guard scored 15 of his 21 the win's momentum Saturday, basket, but I shot a fall-away points in the first half. when they face St. John's in jumper. Next time I would go to "I feel that in the first half we Madison Square Garden. 
Irish men; s tennis gets first-ever National Indoor win 
Singles players dominate as Notre Dame slams 20th-ranked Kansas in first round action, 6-0 
By DAVE McMAHON Tennis Coaches' Association 
Mark Schmidt kept up his taking the next five points and Sports Writer tournament today. phenomenal performance for thus the match. Sixth-ranked junior All­the Irish and stayed undefeated Perhaps the most eventful 
Irish tennis coach Bob Bayliss American Dave DiLucia rolled with a 6-3, 6-3 win against match for the Irish came at six said before leaving for the to an easy win at number one Kansas's Paul Garvin. singles, where Irish sophomore USTA/ITCA National Indoor singles, beating KU's Jeff Gross, "He got off to a slow start Ron Rosas took a streaky match Team Championships that the 6-1, 6-2. because the courts bothered from Pat Han, 6-0, 4-6, 6-2. 13th-ranked Irish (7 -3) could "Dave was in total control," him," said Irish assistant coach After taking the first six not possibly have prepared said Bayliss. "He broke Gross in Brian Kalbas. "He played back games, Kalbas said Rosas more for their opening round the first game and played really a little too far at the beginning, suffered a mental lapse and lost match against 20th-ranked well on the fast courts." but he has a short backhand, so eight of the ensuing 12 games, Kansas. At two singles, Irish after he got used to the courts which put him down 2-0 in the 
He couldn't have called it bet­sophomore Chuck Coleman he played well." third set. ter, as Notre Dame breezed played one of his best matches At five singles, Notre Dame "He turned his game up a past the Jayhawks 6-0 in recent competition in a 7-6 Ron Rosas sophomore Andy Zurcher took notch in the third set," said Wednesday morning at the (7-3), 6-4 win against Craig a 3-0 lead in the first set en Kalbas. Louisville Tennis Club. The Wildley. route to a 6-3, 6-4 victory Down 2-0, Rosas proceeded Irish advance to play the top­"Chuck really needed that impressive serve-and-volley against Rhain Buth. to take the following six gamesseeded and top-ranked win," said Bayliss. "Chuck got game in the advantage court to In the second set, Zurcher and complete the sweep for the Stanford Cardinal today at off to a slow start, but he beat Rafael Rangel in straight nailed a high percentage of his Irish. noon. played more consistently than sets as well, 6-4, 7-5. first serves but started off the With the format of the 
With a sweep of the singles he has been. He had a huge "Will served for the match at games defensively instead of tournament, Notre Dame is action, the Irish doubles teams serve and finally broke Wildley S-4 of the second set, but got aggressively, allowing Buth to guaranteed at least a 16th­will see their first play of the in the tiebreaker." broken before taking the stay in the match. Serving for place finish in the team's first United States Tennis At number-three singles, Irish match," said Bayliss. the match, Zurcher was down trip ever to the National Team Association/Intercollegiate junior Will Forsyth used an At four singles, sophomore 40-0 in the final game before Indoors. 
Baseball team begins 100th seasonBeck joins football staff, 
SCOTT BRUTOCAO will see the Irish travel 15,000 anniversary is one of Notre Assistant Sports Editor miles before they play their Dame's most demanding
brings offensive threat 
first home game. Notre Dame schedules ever. The Irish will The 15th-ranked Notre Dame will not play at home until April face five preseason top-20
Special to the Observer Grand Valley State's only 
baseball team kicks off its 10 against Purdue. schools, including Stanfordloss in '89 came at the hands 1OOth season ·today as it plays It is also the 300th-career (third), Texas (seventh).
Tom Beck, head football of Indiana (Pa.) in the first Dartmouth in the Oakland A's collegiate game coached by Pat Louisiana State (eighth),coach the last six years at round of the NCAA Division II Tournament in Phoenix. Murphy. In the 300 games, Michigan (13th) and Ohio State. 
Grand Valley State in playoffs. The Lakers also 
The game against Dartmouth Murphy is 188-108-3 (.629), In addition, season opponentsAllendale, Mich., has joined dropped a first-round game will be the first of a four-game which includes one year at Minnesota (26th), AuburnLou Holtz's staff at Notre in '90 to East Texas State. 
tournament for the Irish, in Maryville College in Tennessee, (28th) and UCLA (31st) appearDame. Particularly known for his which they play Nebraska two years at Claremont-Mudd on Collegiate BaseballBeck directed Grand Valley innovative offensive Friday and 18th-ranked Ohio Scripps in California and three magazine's "Fabulous 40." 
State to six straight winning techniques, Beck's teams at State Saturday. On Sunday, years in South Bend. Following is a look at this seasons and a combined 50-Grand Valley State averaged Notre Dame either will play in Finally, this game marks the year's probable starters 
b18 record after taking over a 30 points and 392.2 total the championship or beginning of the 1OOth season position:
-· 
program that finished 0-10 in yards per game, in addition consolation game. · of Notre Dame baseball, the Starting Pitcher: Murphy 1984. Highlights of his tenure to better than eight wins per Today's game versus second-longest history of any go with sophomores
with the Lakers included year. He was named NCAA 
Dartmouth is a milestone on sport at Notre Dame (the Sinnes (9-2, 1.05 ERA in 1records of 9-2 in 1986, 11-1 several counts. longest, football, spans 102in '89 and 10-2 in '90. see FOOTBALUpage 14 
It will mark the first game of seasons and 104 years). a monstrous road schedule that Complementing this festive see BASEBALUpage 1 






