
VOL XXIII NO. 133 
i 

TUESDAY , APRIL 23, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
General comes home 
SUFR submits new proposal to Malloy 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Tlw •·oal ilion of Students United For Hesp1~ct (SUFHI an­nounced Monday that it will ac­c••pt the proposal offered by Univ..rsity President Father Edward Malloy last week to continue dialogue on the issue of rultural divf~rsity. while adding an anwndment to in-dude a third-party participant that SUFR would have to re­in the discussions. evaluate their situation. 
The coalition delivered the Although it may appear that latest proposal to Malloy Mon­the coalition is surrendering by day at 2 p.m., announced SUFR accepting Malloy's plan, that is member Beatriz Cruz at a press not the case, according to Fred conference yesterday in the Tombar, SUFR member and Foster Hoom of LaFortune 1990-91 student body vice­Student Center. president. The decision, he said, 
SUFR called for Malloy to re­"is a show of good will and spond to the proposal by 3 p.m. compromise on our part. be­today. If the new proposal is not cause the most important thing accepted by Malloy, Cruz said to all the members of SUFR is to 
Sununu's travels questioned 
WASIJIN<;TON IAI'I -The WhitP IJousP on Monday promisPd a full accounting of rhil'f of staff .John Sununu's trawls as it sought to stem the political fallout over his extnn­sivP JWrsonal usc of military jPts. 
Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said l'residPnt Bush discussed tlw issup with Sununu on Mon­day shortly after the chief of staff n~turnnd -on an Air Fore•~ jnt -from a wm~kend in Nnw llampshin~. 
But "Tiwm's no evidence that tlwn~·s any ethical impropriety hPrP," said Fitzwater. lie said data consisting of "long lists and numlwrs" would affirm that judgnwnt. 
Fitzwater said the records, to hi! rPleased within tlw next few days, would back Sununu's con­tentions that he had reim­hursml the goVf!rnnwnt for per­sonal trips aboard military plarws. 
Congressional Democrats have seizml on thn issun and ac­cusf'd Sununu. whose brash mamwrs have never won him many frim1ds on Capitol llill, of misusing tax dollars. 
"It's probably l•~gal. It may be technically ethical. But most certainly it is excessive," said H•~p. Bob Wise. 1>-W. Va., chairman of the !louse Gov­ernment Operations subeom­mittl!e on government informa­tion. justice and agriculture. 
Wise welcomfld thfl White IJouse announcement that it would open up its books. But, h1~ said, "that handles one question. The other is whether Air Sununu should be flying on the seale it does." 
"When John Sununu isn't breaking up negotiations on the dvil rights bill, apparently he's flying out to Vail to ski at the taxpayer's expense," said Rep. Vic Fazio, 1>-Calif, chairman of the Demoeratie Congressional Campaign Committee. 
The latest furor surrounding the chief of staff arose with news aecounts ovflr the week­end that Sununu had taken more than 60 trips on Air Force jets including skiing vacations and visits to his home state of New Hampshire. 
"The prnsid1mt supports that policy" that enabled Sununu to fly aboard military planes even when on private business. Fitzwater said. "There should be no question about that." 
At issue is a 1987 directive signed by then-President Rea­gan authorizing the White I louse ehicf of staff and the na­tional seeurity adviser to fly aboard military jets at all times. Former Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee was chief of staff at the time. 
Administration officials say the policy is intended to make sure the top presidential aides are never out of touch. 
However, the memorandum was not publicized by the White House until now. 
Fitzwater said Bush had de­cided to make publie all perti­nent travel documents for both Sununu and national security adviser Brent Scowcroft. "I asked the president this morn­ing. He said, 'release it all,"' Fitzwater said. 
The spokesman insisted that Sununu had reimbursed the government for all personal trips aboard official aircraft, following well-established pol­icy guidelines, even if the amount of reimbursement was below what it cost to use the planes. 
"We don't think there's any­thing wrong," Fitzwater said. 
The Washington Post and U.S. News & World Heport reported more than five dozen trips by Sununu over the past 27 months on corporate-type military jets, almost half of them to New England. as well as such vacation spots as Vail and Aspen, Colo. The trips in­cluded both official business and personal and political travel. the accounts said. 
Nearly all Sununu's flights were aboard Air Force C-20s, a 12-passenger twin-engine jet that is the military version of the Gulfstream III corporate jet. 
see SUNUNU/page 6 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Gen. II. Norman Schwarzkopf is home from the Gulf War. but that doesn't mean his job is finished. 
As head of the U.S. Central Command based at MaeDill Air Foree Base, Schwarzkopf will continue to direct the 250,000 troops remaining in the Persian Gulf. 
"They're going to be there for a while," Schwarzkopf told a cheering erowd of about 500 people who greeted his return Sunday to MaeDill. "We're get­ting them home as fast as we can. But l ask all of you plnase just to keep giving the great support you've given all of us until the last American is home." 
Schwarzkopf. who spent eight months away from his family as commander of the allied troops in the Persian Gulf. took his wife. Brenda, and their three children in a big bear hug as soon as he stepped back onto American soil. 
"I can't describe to you tlw emotions in all of our lwarts," Schwarzkopf told the throng. "It's gn~at to be an American." 
The turnout was smaller than expected after officials had spent several days eneouraging people to stay home and avoid a erush. City and military officials had feared a logistieal nightmare with up to 200,000 expected. 
Awaiting his arrival were local dignitaries, base personn1d, families of Operation Desert Storm troops and Kuwaiti Am­bassador Saud Nasir al-Sabah. 
"Mr. Ambassador. I am proud to report to you Kuwait is free," said tlw four-star general, standing before a 40-foot-wide American flag. 
Schwarzkopf, 56, who plans to retire this summer, has been flooded with offers ranging from book contracts to a uni­versity presidency. A possible political candidacy also was mentioned. 
get the issues addressed." 
The latest proposal, Tombar said, is an effort to break the stalemate in dialogue between the administration and SUFR. 
Last week, SUFR staged a sit­in in the Registrar's office de­manding direct negotiations with Malloy on the issue of cul­tural diversity. The sit-in was a result of SUFR's belief that the administration had failed to properly address their list of demands made in January, in­cluding increasing the number of ethnic faculty, building a multi-cultural facility and de­veloping a racial harassment policy for the University. 
Small group meetings with Malloy last week failed to re­solve the stalemate, and on Friday Michael Nelson, the Na­tional Association for the Ad-
see SUFR/page 5 
Senate approves student budget 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
A $400,000 Student Activity Fee budget proposed by the 1991-92 Budget Committee wa..<> approved by Student Sen­ate Monday evening. 
The budget committee, chaired by Student Body Trea­surer John Coffey, carefully distributed the $400,000 alloted by the Student Activities Fund. Twenty percent or these funds were distributed among clubs and organizations, while the remaining 80 percent was dis· tributed between allocations, Student Union Board (SUB), Student Government. and a contingency fund. 
Coffey said that the commit­tee was very positive, especially with this year's limitations in the budget. 
The allowance of $13,000 for the Sesquicentennial Committee and a $6,353 budget for the 24-hour lounge in LaFortune caused cutbacks in other areas, Coffey said. However, the budget committee reacted positively to the setback, he added. 
According to Coffey, both Student Government and SUB suffered 10 percent losses within tlwir budgots. 
Student Body President Josep}l Blanco stated t.he bud­get was well-planned considering this year's set backs. 
Also approved in senate was the omission of a by-law amended by the 1990-91 Stu­dent Senate concerning the reimbursement of student election campaign costs. 
The by-law. set efl'ective for January 1. 1992, said, "Fifty percent of the money spent by candidates' tickets will be re­imbursed by the Eltlclion Committee.~ 
According to Coffey, if put into effect. this by-law would encourage joke tickets to run. "If they would be reimbursed then a joke ticket would only settle for half of the losses they would sutT<1r without this by-law," he said. 
Aftflr discussion among sen­ate members, the by law was defeated nine to six. 
Comments on the relationship between the omission of this by-law and the cutbacks in the budget were said to be unrelated. according to Coffey. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Variable cloudiness today with highs reaching into the 60s and lows dip­ping to the 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
Every day needs to be Earth Day 
Earth Day has come and gone and. just like last year, the annual surge of avid environmentalists will soon disappear. 
Although this yearly 

celebration of Mother Earth attempts to educate Geraldine 
the public about environmental concerns Hamilton 
· Accent Copy 
such as global warmmg Editor and the ozone hole, when------­the day is over the thousands of pamphlets that were distributed will be thrown into the recycling bins and be forgotten. 
I am not a pessimistic person -and I do not believe that the large majority of the public is indifferent to the destruction of the environment. 
As a matter of fact. I think people care. I have witnessed my hometown become environmentally conscious. 
1\vo years ago my kitchen had one big trash can, it now has an entire wall devoted to waste disposaL There is one bin for newspapers, one for clear glass, one for colored glass and one for aluminium cans. 
Yet, how many people know enough to realize that the recycling containers in their kitchens are only the very first steps to a solution to the problem? 
In order for people to implement remedies, they must have a full grasp of the dangers facing the environment and the implications these dangers have on their lives. 
For all those people that didn't get a chance to celebrate Earth Day here are some relevant facts about the environmental problems facing our world today: 
•Although, 
humans only need one gallon of water per day to survive, United States' citi­zens use 1800 gallons of water per day. 

•At 
the same time, underground water ta­bles are falling and the ground water is being contaminated by pesticides in 32 of the states. 

•There 
are nine pounds of carbon dioxide emitted into the air for each mile a car that gets 22 miles per gallon is driven. 

•Each 
American generates 20 tons of carbon dioxide per year. 

•In 
the mean time 31 million hectares of forest cover in industrial countries are 'damaged by air pollution. 

•
Fifty percent of skin disease among fair­skinned people is caused by the sun. 

•Approximately 
100,000 people in the world die of skin cancer per year. 

•The 
growing ozone hole in the earth's atmosphere over Antarctica suggests a gradual global depletion could be starting. 


Yes, Earth Day is over until next year, but the problem of the environment is not a one time a year event; zit is ongoing. 
Earth Day is a great start in making people aware of the dangers that we face. Yet, much more has to be done. 
Primarily, people have to realize the magnitude of the problem and begin to take action even beyond recycling. The world is now most definitely in our hands. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Today's  Staff:  
Production usa Bourdon Wendy Cunningham  News Ann Hartman Meredith McCullough  
Systems Paul Froning Patrick Barth Graphics Brendan Regan Circulation Kathleen O'Conner John O'Brian Alison Cocks  Accent Michael Krause Ad Design KenyCia1re Maria Blohm GregWach Alissa Murphy Sports Dave McMahon  

I 
! 
r 
! 
~ 
f 
~ 
I ~ 
' 
~ 
I 
r 
' 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published M9nday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Guerrillas killed after entering Israel 
•JERUSALEM -Israeli troops shot and killed two heavily armed Arab guerrillas who crossed into northern Israel from Lebanon, the army command said today. It was the first time in nearly two years that infiltrators had managed to get through an Israeli-controlled security zone and cross the Israel-Lebanon border. The guerrillas were killed Sunday night in a short exchange of gunfire about two miles north of Dan, the command said. It reported no Israeli casualties. Palestinian and Lebanese guerrillas frequently try to cross into Israel from Le­banon, but usually are stopped in the security zone, which Israel created when it withdrew most of its troops from southern Lebanon in June 1985 following a three­year occupation. 
23 killed In unrest in South Africa 
.JOHANNESBURG. South Africa -At least 23 people were killed in political unrest ·over the weekend, including four men shot by a police patrol after allegedly smuggling weapons into South Africa, police said today. The four were killed late Sunday night near Komatipoort on the Mozambique border after they opened fire on a police patrol. police said in a statement. Police were act­ing on information about an arms smuggling ring, they said. A large shipment of arms was recovered from the car, including 16 AK-47 rifles, a rocket grenade launcher, several machine pistols and ammunition, the police statement said. Weapons are frequently smuggled in to South Africa from Mozambique to be sold to rival black factions for use in fighting in black townships. Police said last week they had stepped up efforts to cut off arms smuggling. 
OF INTEREST 
•saint Mary's Student Admission Council members need to get their yearbook pictures taken today at 7:20 
p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
•Tickets required for entrance to the Guess Who concert on Saturday, April 27 will be available Wednesday or Thursday at the LaFortune Information Desk. The first 2,500 tickets are good, rain or shine. The second 2,500 tickets are only valid for shine. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April22, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES 125.36 Million  NYSE INDEX 211.23  ..@.­v  1·03  
S&P COMPOSITE  .m..  
385.70  v  2.76  

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,927.72 + 37.87 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {i-$ .80 to $357.90/oz. SILVER .. 2.4e to $3.94/oz. 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Wonn Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miam Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Ph•ladephia Portland, Ore. Rome St. LOUIS San Fran ciSco South Bend Tokyo 
Washington, D.C 
H  L  
72  50  
66  43  
43  32  
53  46  
63  32  
65  55  
61  36  
61  39  
93  69  
94  70  
61  33  
52  41  
66  56  
66  39  
79  65  
48  32  
78  57  
56  40  
48  36  
55  42  
63  49  
55  41  
62  41  
61  48  
60  35  
68  55  
60  47  

NATIONAL 
.WAS INGTON -Richard Walker Bolling, a Democratic Congressman from 
A(lf" Missouri who helped pass the first civil ' · rights legislation since Reconstruction, was found dead Sunday from an apparent heart attack. He was 7 4 years old. Bolling, who retired in 1982, was found in his Washington home by his wife, said Rep. Alan Wheat, D-Mo., who succeeded Bolling. Wheat said Bolling died of an apparent heart attack. Initially elected to Congress in 1948, Bolling was re-elected for 16 consecutive terms. After retiring from Congress, Bolling was a visiting professor of political science at the University of Missouri in Kansas City and a professor of politics at Boston College in Massachusetts. Bolling had said he was most proud of the role he played in winning passage in 1957 of the first civil rights legislation since Reconstruction. 
Drui to treat Leukemia approved 
•Career 
and Placement Services would like to help seniors moving to a new city after graduation find a new roommate/house-mate. Stop down to the office and add your name to the "Information Exchange" listing now, and then check back often for names. 

•Pasquerilla 
East needs men to help with Hall Storage on Friday afternoon, May 3. It will pay by the hour. Contact Patricia 283-4308 or Adrienne 283-4215 


ON THIS DAV IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: President-elect George Washington and his wife moved into the first executive mansion, the Franklin House, in New York. 

• 
In 1954: Hank Aaron of the Milwaukee Braves hit the first of his record 755 major-league home runs, in a game against the St. Louis Cardinals. 

• 
In 1969: Sirhan Sirhan was sentenced to death for the assassination of New York Sen. Robert Kennedy. The sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. 

• 
Five years ago: The government proposed barring immigration into the United States by people suffering from AIDS. 





.....
--~----------~-----------------------------------­
ND,Saint Mary's students given language and literature awards 
WED., Al't!IL 24-SAT., Al't!IL 27 8:1 0PM 

ies in lnnsbruck, Austria. 
SuN., Al't!Jl 28 3:1 0PM 
The stipend "helped out fi­nancially," said Schuetz. "It was a nice surprise," she said. 
Both Caldwell and Dowd will 
'I.UESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 
attend summer school in Len­ingrad and Griesbach plans to
Any 7" Sandwich 
study in Cologne, Germany. 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 
WASHINGTON HALL 1990-91 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
Reserved Seim 57, Student and Senior Gtizen disf:ounts ore available on Wed., Thurs. and Sun. Tickets ore available ot the door or in advance ot the Lafortune Student (enter information desk. For MasterCard and lf'SO orders call (219) 239-8128 

Tuesday, April 23, 1991 
--~ 
Voices heard The Observer/E.G. Bailey Members of Students United For Respect (SUFR) are shown here participating in a February demonstration. Such acts lead to recent discussions between the coalition and the administration. 

"The Pulse of the 90's!" 
Summer Countdown Party! 
PARl'il PARl'il PARl'il PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARl'il PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! 
~ EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT
.. ~ 
~ 75t/S2.50 Specials 
<
.. ~ 
PARTY! PARTY! PARl'il PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTY! PARTVI PARTY! 
• Win a Free Party for You and 25 Friends 

DANCE Featuring Guest DJ 

"The Best Damn Bar In Town" 
1150 Mishawaka Avenue Must be 21 
288-0285 I.D. Required 
APlAY BY a•:nm•.T am:urr 
Op~l'rlr7Jrj II 
ENGUIH VERSION BYt:Rit: BF.IVIU:Y 
IJhI~{/Jtj' 
The Observer page 3 
ND honors Church benefactor 
South Bend, Father Theodore ber of the Board of Founders of 
Special to The Observer 
Hesburgh, president emeritus, the Knights of Malta. lie was and Malloy. elected to Notre Dame's Board
Thomas Coleman, senior 
of Trustees in 1984. 
partner of Adler, Coleman & 
The restoration of the historic
Co., a New York City investment 
campus church included 19th Construction of Sacred Heartfirm, will be honored by the 
century murals, stained glass, Church began in 1970, and theUniversity of Notre Dame on altars and statuary as well as Ameriean Gothic Revival struc­May 2 as the principal benefac­the installation of a new roof, ture was consecrated in 1888,tor of the $7 million restoration 
air conditioning, fire safety replacing an earlier churchof Sacred Heart Church on 
improvements and new pews built in 1848 by Notre Dame'scampus. 
and carpet. founder and first president, Coleman is also a member of Father Edward Sorin. 
University President Father 
the Advisory Council for the
Edward Malloy will preside at a College of Business Administra­The site of the future Univer­Mass of thanksgiving at 5:15 
tion. He was elected to mem­sity first became a center ofp.m., marking the completion of bership in the New York Stock missionary activity in 1986,
the fifteen-month project. 
Exchange in 1956 and became when Father Claude Allouez, aHomilist for the liturgy will be a partner of Adler, Coleman & French Jesuit missionary to the
Father Edmund Joyce, Notre 
Co. the following year. Potawatomi people, establishedDame's executive vice-president a chapel there. In 1932, it be­emeritus. 
He has served on the boards came the mission headquarters of governors and directors of of Father Stephen TheodoreColeman is a 1956 alumnus 
the New York Stock Exchange Badin, the first Catholic priestand a member of the University 
and the New York Futures Ex­ordained in the United States. 
of Notre Dame's Board of 
change. Active in the affairs of
Trustees, which will convene on the Catholic Church in New Father Sorin and the Brothersthe campus for its spring meet­
ing as well as the celebration_ York, he serves on the boards of of Holy Cross who made up Saint Vincent's Hospital & Notre Dame's founding party
Donald Keough, chairman of 
Medical Center and Saint arrived at the site on November
the Notre Dame trustees and 
Patrick's Cathedral. 26, 1942. The University will
president of the Coca-Cola 
celebrate its sesquicentennialCompany, will preside at a diner He is also a member of the with a series of events, pro­following the Mass. Dinner 
board of trustees of New York grams and activities beginningspeakers will include Bishop Catholic Charities and a mem-in mid-September. 
John D'Arcy of Fort Wayne-
By BECKY RITZERT and Literatures. News Writer The winners named were Notre Dame juniors Michael 
Five Notre Dame and Saint Caldwell and James Dowd, ND Mary's students have been freshmen Brian Cayce and Julie named recipients of the Schuetz, and Saint Mary's ju­
Culpeper Foundation Summer nior Jacqueline Griesbach. Grant in the department of Each student will receive a _German and Russian languages $750 stipend toward the tuition 
Buy this space and say "CONGRATULATIONS" to someone in the May 17 Graduation Issue of The Observer. 
For more information, call The Observer office at 239-6900 or visit the 3rd Floor of La Fortune and at St. Mary's, 3rd Floor of Haggar. (Photos will be accepted) 
2BUCK 
and living expenses of attend­ing summer classes for im­provement in German or Rus­sian, according to Klaus Lanzinger, department chair­man. 
"The selection was made by a committee from our depart­ment," said Lanzinger. Five faculty members served on the committee, he said. 
"We selected five of the eleven applicants," explained Lanzinger. The students were judged on "their grade in Ger­man or Russian, their Univer­sity grade point average, and their prospect for further de­velopment in languages," said Lanzinger. 
The applicants were also asked to specify what type of summer program in which they wished to participate, said Lanzinger. 
Cayce, who plans to attend summer school at Georgia State University in Atlanta, said he was "pretty excited" when he learned he had won the grant. 
"I just wanted to take a Ger­man class," said Cayce. He added that he is considering German as part of a double major and that he chose Geor­gia State because he lives in At­lanta. 
The other recipients plan to apply the grant to studies abroad. 
Schuetz said that she already had intended to attend summer school in Salzburg in intensive preparation for a year of stud­

---~--~~-­
Tuesday, April 23, 1991 
Gorbachev's time runs out 

WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. officials are reluctantly con­cluding that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's govern­ment is paralyzed and the ini­tiator of world-shaking reforms at home and abroad may not hold power much longer. 
Kremlin watchers in Wash­ington are studying the most likely successors and consider­ing what a post-Gorbachev So­viet Union may look like. 
Gorbachev has enjoyed hearty support from President Bush, who made no secret of his hope that the Soviet leader would succeed. But Bush advisers and State Department analysts now say privately that Gorbachev appears unable to regain con­trol of his fractious country and that his time may be running out. 
"He's getting pretty close to the edge," said one influential Soviet affairs analyst at State. "The situation looks very pre­carious," said another. 
One official with long experi­ence observing Soviet affairs said the administration has re­ceived recent signals from vari­ous sources indicating that Gorbachev is in serious trouble and is "maneuvering furiously to protect his flanks and un­dercut the opposition." 
"He's very much aware of the threat," the official said. 
Administration officials are reluctant to comment openly about a subject as sensitive as Gorbachev's political survival, and those who spoke to The Associated Press did so only on the condition they remain anonymous. 
Other observers injected a note of caution, saying there is much hysterical talk but little hard evidence. 
John Steinbruner, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, said, "I do not see signs of his imminent demise." 
"He has balanced the overall politics in a way that doesn't make it easy to get at him," Steinbruner said, though he ac­knowledged, "One never quite knows where the breaking point is." 
State Department Counselor Robert Zoellick, in outlining Bush administration policy on Capital Hill recently, alluded to the "increased uncertainty about the future course" of the Soviet Union. 
The United States. he said, "should try to manage uncer­tainty by multiplying our chan­nels of information and in­creasing our points of access with a rapidly changing Soviet society." 
The administration is at­tempting to broaden its contacts at all levels of the Soviet power structure while trying not to undermine Gorbachev, whom it still regards as a friend and a positive force for change. 
Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY  
IN MEMORIAM Saturday, April 27 5:00p.m. Fr Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Sunday, April 28On Monday, April 29, 1991, 10:00 a.m. Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 11:45 a.m. Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. the 5:15 Mass at Sacred Heart Church Attention Seniors Will Be Offered for  

•' ~ ~" ..,. # ·'· · e• I' .• r ' ~ I ~ " "t ( v 'I • ', '"' "t • • ~ • • ~ """" •"' r* · •w· r ~· • ·y.,.. _,.,~ ·•· " • r .-""' .-... r •· 'r'f'"· t r ,.., • • • ~ t " • .. ' • • l'' • • · • • • f t • • ' 1 t • • r ' T 1 111 f ,. ,. f • r'" .··9 r t-r I"' t•e-.-,~ ••,... ,...•.,........~.,r,.•t• •· .-...... 

~------~----------------..----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
Tuesday, April 23, 1991 page 5 
SUFR 
SUFR SURVEY 
continued from page 1 
Following are the results of arandom telephone survey of 200 Notre Dame students conducted by The Observer 
vancomont of Colored People 
Are you aware of the demands being made Do you support SUFR's demands? 
national college and youth co­ordinator, mnt with adminis­
by Students United For Respect (SUFR)? VES 49 24.5% 
tration and SUFR members while at Notre Dame on a fact­
VES 132 66% 
NO --·65 32.5% 
finding mission. 
SOME L-----11 57 28.5%
NO -28 14%
Consultation with Nelson and the entire SUFB membership 
SOME L...-----11 40 20% 
OTHER c::::J29 14.5% yielded the proposal issued Monday. 
Do you support SUFR's methods Do you feel the University is truly
The proposal is comprised of 
to have these demands met? committed to cultural diversity? 
four points: 
• SUFR is to bn established as 
VES 40 20% VES 64 32% 
a rncogniznd student organiza­tion. 
NO 130 65% 
NO 92 46% 
• Malloy is to reaFfirm his 
SOME D 15 7.5% 
SOME CJ19 9.5%
commitment to cultural diver­sity through a "substantive 
OTHER 015 7.5% 
OTHER c::::::J 24 12.5% 
The Observer/Brendan Regan
document" to be circulated 
throughout the University. 
• "The University," said Cruz, is to "form a committee to en­gage in productive dialogue which will lead to tangible so­lutions to thn problems of cui­lund divnrsity that exist at Notre Dame." 
According to tho proposal, SUFH is to bn an active member of thn dialogun rnsulting from Malloy's document. not only in the selection of the committee mnmbers but also in the discus­sion of the issues. 
• Those who participated in the sit-in at the Registrar's of­fice on April 17 are to suffer "no academic or other reprisals." 
Tombar stated that the Uni­versity has already guaranteed that the students will not suffer any punishment for their par­tieipation in the demonstration. 
The proposal is actually an amended version of the pro­posal presented in a statement by Malloy on April 18. The re­quest for an impartial third­party participant in future dis­cussions was an addition made by SUFR. 
"What we saw," said Tombar, "was the entire dialogue com­ing to an impasse. And because the university felt so strongly about the four-point proposal, we thought that maybe this could just be some sort of starting point." 
Tombar pointed out that the committee to address cultural diversity would differ from past committees formed to address the issue. Rather than simply making recommendations, it will address the problems that have been raised and formulate substantive solutions. 
In addition, the committee will presumably include mem­hers of SUFI{. who, according to Tombar, are dedicated to seeing that the issues are ad­dressed. 
"We hope to also, by the end of this year, maybe have all of this (committee formation and groundwork) done," said Cruz, "and also have some sort of document, in writing, of what is to come, so that when we leave this year, some thing has been done." 

The Alumni-Senior Club is currently accepting applications for 
1991-92 DISC JOCKEY 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Applications due by Friday, April 26 
April, 1991 
Engineering department grows 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame department of earth sciences will be incor­porated into the department of civil engineering, creating the department of civil engineering and geological sciences, accord­ing to Associate Provost Roger Schmitz. 
The new department, accord­ing to Father James Rigert, chairman of the earth sciences department, will fall under the College of Engineering. The earth sciences degree will still be offered by the College of Engineering, and there are no 
52203 U 8 33 NOP'lTI-I • SOVTH IEIENP. INDIANA 418J7 • 1~19) ~);• 1:1~04 -----.. 
Members of Graduating Class/1991 University of Notre Dame du Lac Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, IN 46556 
near Graduating Students, 
CONGRATULATIONS!!! 
After many years of hard work, study and commitment your labor has been rewarded. The ownership and employees of Basney Imports, BMW, Mazda, Volkswagen would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your accomplishment. 
As you enter your career or further advanced studies, we at Basney Imports would like to extend to you the EXCLUSIVE BASNEY IMPORTS COLLEGE GRADUATE AUTOMOBILE PROGRAM. Our program is unique because we will work with you to: 
A) FIND THE CAR THAT FILLS YOUR NEEDS 
B) HELP SECURE FINANCING, (DEFERRED PAYMENTS AVAILABLE) 
C) SPECIAL PRICING CONSIDERATION ON OUR ENTIRE STOCK OF BMW, MAZADA, VOLKSWAGEN (PRICING SO LOW, SAVINGS SO TREMENDOUS, WE WILL NOT PUBLISH, OR PRICE OVER THE PHONE) 
D) ENTER YOU IN TilE VOLKSWAGEN JETTA GIVE-AWAY DRAWING 
E) GIVE YOU FREE CAR MATS WITH VECHICLE PURCHASE 
G) PROMISE YOU FRIENDLY, HELPFUL SERVICE AND A GREAT DEAL! 
PLEASE CALL OUR PROGRAM HEADQUARTERS AT (219)272-9504 FOR YOUR PERSONAL PROGRAM CERTIFICATE. THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE YOU. 
CORDIALLY, 
James P. Allanson PROGRAM MANAGER 
plans to change the require­ments for the degree. 
According to Schmitz, who is secretary of the Academic Council, the changes will take effect July 1. The proposal to merge the departments was approved by the Council unani­mously at its meeting April 16, Schmitz said. 
The idea to merge the two departments, Schmitz said, was presented to the council by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science. and Anthony Michel, McCloskey Dean of the College of Engineering, who said that the merger would be the best way to strengthen the 
Tributes to Mary planned 
Special to The Observer 
The fourth in a series on "Tributes To Mary" will be held Friday, May 3 at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dolores Tantoco-Stauder, li­brarian at the University of Notre Dame and coordinator of the series, will give the opening remarks and will introduce the speakers. 
A graduating senior at Saint Mary's College, Cathy Nolan who is a mother of seven chil­dren will speak about "Mary as Mother." 
Martha Ortega, founder of the VVord-Rosary Intercessor Ministry, will speak on how the rosary affects everyday life. Her lay ministry, located in South 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
HOUSES FOR REfiT ~ 1991-1992 SCHOOL YEAR ~ 
WASHERS &DRYERS 5 RND 6 BEDROOMS 2 HOUSES LEFT 
CRLL FLYNN'S RENTRLS 
289-6621 
INEHPENS I UE 
SECURITY SYSTEMS CLOSE TO CRMPUS 
two program which have com­mon interests. 
Rigert said that the College of Science had been discussing th1~ possibility of a merger "since last fall." He believes that the earth sciences department will make an easy transition be­cause it is a small department and it has no graduate pro­gram. "It has some very positive aspects," he said. 
Next year's freshmen, Rigert said, will still be able to take Earth Sciences 1 01-102 to sat­isfy the University two-semester science requirement. 
Bend, distributes nearly 5,000 books per month world-wide. 
Kathleen Ferrone, a wife and mother of three, will talk about how the apparition of Mary in Guadalupe affects the Americas now. Ferrone is a former ex­change student in Mexico with Intercambio International, a Youth for Understanding pro­gram. 
Jim Hassig, a corporal in the South Bend Police Department, as well as an acolyte and eucharistic minister at Sacred Heart Church, will talk on "Mary in the Streets." 
Jim Jennings will speak on "The Blessed Virgin Mary, Refuge of Sinners." 
The Tribute to Mary is free and open to the public. 
Sununu 
continued from page 1 
Presumably, the White House records will show that any re­imbursements made by the chief of staff were at commer­cial air fare rates. 
Critics of the policy claim commercial air fares would cover only a fraction of the cost of flying on a C-20 business jet. The Air Force lists the C-20s hourly operating rate at $3,945, not counting the salaries of the five-member crew. 
Fitzwater said the chief of staff needs a secure phone link to the White House at all times. He said "the most extreme" case would be if the president died. 
Even when Sununu leaves the military planes, "there is a portable secure communica­tions set that goes with him," Fitzwater said. 
Asked if Sununu was recon­sidering being such a frequent flyer aboard official aircraft, Fitzwater said: "I don't know what Governor Sununu's plans are.... It's up to him how he conducts himself, how he uti­lizes the aircraft." 
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich .. chairman of the House Gov­ernment Operations Committee, asked the General Accounting Office -an auditing and investigatory wing of Congress -to investigate Sununu's use of the official aircraft. 
Still, congressional criticism of the practice may be muted. Lawmakers of both parties have long used military aircraft for congressional trips, often called "junkets" by public-in­terest groups, to distant and sometimes exotic places. 
The Observer 
U.S. alone in camps 
SILOPI, Turkey (AP) -U.S. military forces working Monday to construct a model camp to house Kurdish refugees in northern Iraq were watched by Iraqi police but left alone, offi­cials said. 
The U.S. soldiers, meanwhile, have received high marks from relief groups and refugees in Kurdish camps along the Turk­ish border. 
"They are very cooperative, very willing, and they have a lot of logistical support," said Constantin Sokoloff, a field of­ficer for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
Dozens of U.S. troops have arrived the past few days at the worst-off refugee camps, at Cukurca and Uzumlu in Turkey. They will be bringing in medicine and water by heli­copter, distributing food and helping pipe spring water to the hundreds of thousands of refugees at the squalid camps. 
Two U.S. soldiers were in­jured in a land mine explosion at the Uzumlu camp Monday. The border had been mined by Turkey and Iraq before the Gulf War, and several refugees have been killed or maimed by step­ping on mines. 
Relief workers said the ar­rival of the Americans had re­duced tensions among the refugees. 
At Cukurca, a camp crowded with about 185,000 refugees, refugees seemed particularly pleased to see U.S. Army Spe­cial Forces on Monday. A day earlier, Turkish soldiers had fired at a crowd rioting over food distribution, killing five and seriously injuring three, according to medical workers. 
Turkish officials said Sunday that one refugee was killed and five injured. 
Tuesday, April23, 1991 
Iraq refugee AP Photo A young Kurdish girl shyly stands next to her mother in their tem­porary home in the village of Kani Masi. 

COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.f!X}IJIV11J!V'JJ $PIJ(]JrJU$ *1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 6. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 
CALL 233-2212 
page 7 
'Homo' midshipman asks judge's removal 
Tuesday, April 23, 1991 The Observer 
\ 
\ 
) 
:\ 
I 
) 
Jewish Russian veterans AP Photo 
Jewish Russian veterans of the Second World War cover their faces and repeat the "Shema Isreal ... " prayer Sunday during a commemoration to Jewish heroism during the war. 

Man recalls killing from childhood memory 
I'ITTSBUHGII (AI') -Coun­named was withheld by police, slding for strnss triggnred a said he witnessed thn slaying in long-dormant memory for a 1962 in some woods near sub­man who reealled how as a boy urban Baldwin. He also said the he watched a minister fatally minister sexually molested him. bnat and stab a I 0-year-old girl. Officials will not comment 
Tlw 3H-year-old man, whose further on the man's recollec­

Take off with low fares. 
10 o/o Off coupon 
• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Rentals For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Rood Service convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes con move you like o Hertz Penske 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks truck. 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­mission and Air Conditioning 



Hertz
Best 
Truck  Deal  
4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 2220 Toledo Road  219-277-0144  

Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks avodobft or alllocor;ons. All local and one-way rentals subject to Hertz 
Pon>ke "andord '""ol qualifi<otiofls, ~ He<11 Pen>ke Truck lecning, Inc:. 19&5. 
You pay for gas, taus, toUs, colliston damage waiver, ond parktng and driwing wtolattons. Drop it off atony participating Hertz Penske Truck Rtntallocation. 
Best 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A fed­eral appeals court was asked Monday to order a judge who called a homosexual plaintiff a "homo" in court to remove himself from the man's case challenging his dismissal from the U.S. Naval Academy. 
Attorneys for Joseph Steffan asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to take U.S. District Judge Oliver Gasch ofT the case. 
The judge refused to do so on April 12, saying his use of the word "homo" three times in a March 6 hearing did not mean he was biased. He said he did not intend any ofTense. 
.. But Steffan's attorneys con­tended in court papers that if a judge is allowed to handle a case when he has used a word considered ofTensive by the mi­nority group involved, "the inevitable result will be to un­dermine the confidence of mi­nority groups in the ability and willingness of the judiciary to safeguard their rights to due process and equal protection of the laws." 

Government attorneys have contended that Gasch did not show specific bias against Stef­fan and that the plaintiff must prove the judge had personal bias against him. 
Because he stated he was a homosexual, Steffan was dis­missed from the Naval Academy six weeks beforn he was to graduate in 1987. lie was not accused of homosexual conduct. 
He is challenging the policy of the armed forces that bans homosexuals from service. 
tion. Police excavated a site the accuser showed them. but found only animal bones. 
The investigation has been ongoing since the man made the accusation in December. No charges have been filed and no body has been found. 
"I think the whole issue is whether a crime has been committed," Allegheny County District Attorney Robert Colville said Monday. "Do we have enough evidence to establish this?" 
The man, who was 9 in 1962, went to police at the suggestion of a therapist he consulted be­cause of job-related stress, Baldwin Police Chief Christo­pher Kelly said. 
"He was having a hard time dealing with it, and he sought counseling, and the counselor told him he could continue to deal with it as he had, by sup­pressing it, or he could go for­ward and prosecute," Kelly said. 
Presbyterian Church officials said a 59-year-old minister who worked for a church counseling service in Seattle was the sub­ject of the investigation. The minister resigned from the ser­vice Feb. 18 for personal rea­sons after the death of a fellow counselor, according to news­paper reports. 

The alleged victim is believed to be Mary Ann Verdecchia, who was reported missing June 7, 1962, and was never found, Kelly said. 
Kelley said investigators are "comfortable that what he told us is the truth." Colville said the man's age at the time "and the question of whether it was fantasized or make-believe" must be taken into account. 
"It's going to take a lot more leg work," Colville said. 
Colville said a body isn't nec­essary to prosecute a homicide case. 
"You can (prosecute) on a statement, but you're working on very slim ground." he said. 
Security Beat 
THURSDAY, APRIL18 
1:43 p.m. A resident of Keenan Hail fainted after giving blood. striking his head first on a chair and then on the floor. 
5:22 p.m. A resident of St. Edward's Hall reported his golf bag and its contents stolen from outside the Notre Dame Golf Pro Shop after he had left them outside to go in and pay lor his round of golf. 
6:37 p.m. A visitor to the University reported that her bags were stolen after she had left them unattended in the Sorin room of LaFortune for an hour. 
10:25 p.m. An ott·campus resident reported that her car was broken into and her purse. which she had left under the seat was stolen. Her car was parked outside the Ecke Tennis Pav!Uon. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 19 
1:10 a.m. Three Notre Dame students reported seeing a suspicious person in the D-2 parking lot. Security responded, but found nothing out of the ordinary there. 
2:12a.m. A resident of Keenan Hall reported that a his wooden sign had been stolen from the Keenan loading dock. 
11:06 a.m. An ott-campus student reported that his car license plate was stolen from his car while It was parked in the gate 4 Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center lot. 
3:26 p.m. A resident of Walsh Hall reported that she had a few art objects stolen from the Alley Art Hall. As Security Investigated, other students claimed to have art items stolen from them in this building. 
7:45 p.m. A. resident of Badin Hall reported that her bike was stolen from outside gate 2 of the JACC. She had left It unsecured lor about 45 minutes. 
SATURDAY, APRIL20 
4:40 a.m. A University employee reported vandalism to the Center lor Continuing Education's golf cart. 
5:49 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported that a resident of Cavanaugh Hall received a twisted ankle from playing basketball. 
8 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of money from her purse in thll women's locker room of the JACC. She had placed her purse on the floor while she change clothes, and th1s is when the theft occurred. 
9:30 p.m. It was reported by an Notre Dame student that a suspect stole a handicapped transport golf cart. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 21 
3:35 a.m. A resident of Sorin Hall was stopped by Security tor reckless driving on campus, 
2:13 p.m. A resident of Flenner Hall received an was injured after being hit in the eye with a baseball during warm-ups before an 1nner·hall game. 
4:54 p.m. A resident of Flenner Hall reported that he had a textbook taken from his floor study lounge. The book had been left unattended, 
American+
Red Cross 
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, April23, 1991 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ...........•••...•••... Monica Yant Advertising Manager •.••••Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ...•......••...••• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •..••••••Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ..•••••.•.•.Jay Colucci Accent Edltor•••••••••••••••••••.John O"Brien Systems Mgr ••..•.........•..•.•.••• Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••••••••••.•.••••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••••.••••.•••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ••••..••••..Emily Willett Controller••....••.•••.•••••••.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student demands an apology from SUFR 
Dear Editor: 
For the past few months I have courteously listened to the diatribe and idiocies of SUFR because I feel that they are entitled to espouse their views no matter how redundant and ridiculous they may be. 
I firmly believe in the freedom of expression and the this right is the hallmark of our country's political system. However, I have an equally firm belief that there is a proper time and place for such expression. The ac­tions and displays of SUFR in the Administration Building on April 17th were unequivocally the wrong time and place. 
Further, as a direct result of their impropriety, I was unable to obtain a new student 10 which would have enabled me to go to lunch, dinner, and breakfast without having to charge the meals to may account. In addition, in my effort to may make may way through the bodies covering the Registrar's office, I was insulted and pushed by the members of SUFR. Therefore, I am turning the table on SUFR, and de­manding that they redress this great injustice on three counts. 
First, I demand that SUFR re­imburse my expense for having to charge three meals. Although I do not feel that the price that the dining hall charges is warranted, the prin­ciple at stake demands that the full expense be reimbursed. 
Second, I demand an apology for the lady who pushed when I entered the office. I also de­mand an explanation from her as to why she did not push or hinder the entrance of the stu­dent who immediately preceded my entrance. At the present 
DOONESBURY 
SUFR ideas contradict those of King 
Dear Editor: The message which seems to tural heritage, partially or 
James Madison addressed the underlie SUFR activity is -con­wholly, controls the content of problem raised by theSUFR'ers trary to the dictum of Martin an individuals' thought is to protest sit-in when, in the Fed­Luther King, Jr. that the content think racially and thereby make eralist papers, he warned of an individual's character, not the cardinal mistake of a racist. Americans to forever shun fac­the color of his skin (or cultural Notre Dame's interests as a tions. Factions, said Madison, origin) should guide our social learning institution is not are "a number of citizens, relations -that the University of furthered by the insolent con­whether amounting to a major­notre Dame should heighten duct of a faction of insistent, ity or minority of the whole, "cultural or racial diversitv" passion driven students. Nor is who are united and actuated by precisely because culture or Notre Dame's interests as a some common impulse of pas­race predominates over learning institution furthered by sion, or of interest, adverse to character (or ideas) in a engaging in racially or cul­the rights to other citizens or to learning institution. turally based hiring. the permanent and aggregate The "permanent and aggre­Finally, the Notre Dame stu­interests of the community." gate interests of the commu­dents interests are not fur­
The sit-in staged by SUFR was nity" of intellectual inquiry at thered by : 1) having their reg­surely great fun; conjuring up Notre Dame is certainly fur­istration efforts obstructed, and all those warm reminiscent thered by the robust exchange 2) by being instructed by images from the belligerent, of important ideas, prompted by anyone who has hired solely to radical 1960s, and then actually a thoughtful and learned faculty achieve "racial or cultural di­obtaining a meeting with Monk regardless of its racial or versity." Notre Dame and its Malloy! Yet, the SUFR'er sit-in cultural composition. Notre students should insist that SUFR only proved the lesson their 60s Dame should respond to SUFR read their lessons, go to their ancestors taught us; namely by seeking out and hiring the classes, and act their age. that if reasonable argument is brightest and most talented unpersuasive, throw a stomping scholars available; regardless of Kevin V. Parsons fit until someone is intimidated skin color or cultural heritage. Off-Campus enough to listen. To respond that race or cui-April18, 1991 
Special treatment is not respect 
Dear Editor: "differences" and as a result, changed. Racism is just as 
Though I sympathize with the they reinforce stereotyping and prominent now because members of SUFR, I have a racial resentment. minorities (and the majority) couple of problems with their As Americans, race have continued to stress racial latest exploits. First, if they distinctions should be differences, pointing out to each want respect, they should earn irrelevant. We all have the new generation that different it, not force it. Second, and same rights, so no "group" races are to be regarded as more importantly, racism and deserves special attention. separate entities. Indeed, the discrimination which it Minority organization racism will continue until we spawns will continue to be demanding special treatment choose to ignore our minute issues as long as minorities and (like equal opportunity laws, differences and accept all the media continue to make etc.) will draw pity from some, people simply as human beings. them issues. outrage from others, and So let's all start acting as a 
I believe that the sit-in staged respect from none. In fact, the single race, the human race, by SUFR and other similar very existence minority groups instead of making rigid actions do more harm to is in itself a form of "reverse distinctions that can do nothing minorities than good. By racism". What would the SUFR but divide us. categorizing themselves as a members think if I were to form distinct and separate group, the White Catholics United for Thomas E. Beaven minority organizations Respect or the NAAWP? Off-campus effectively make the public even Since the Civil Rights Aprll18, 1991 more aware of their movement began, very little has 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
time, the only explanation I have to account for such con­tradictory behavior is his mi­nority status and her racist disposition. 
Third, I demand an apology from the other lady who in­sulted myself and my mother. I hardly feel the insulting name you directed towards me could be part of any politically correct dictionary which SUFR is so vehemently trying to instill at the University of Notre Dame. 
As an exchange of goodwill for the fulfillment of this re­dress, I will offer my advice free of charge. Of course, I will offer my advice prior to this fulfillment because I have full confidence that SUFR will right this injustice as soon as they see that I have suffered. First, such violent action is only coun­terproductive towards the uni­fication of this campus. This is not Beirut, and you are not liv­ing in a Pre-Civil Rights Move­ment Era. 
Whether you believe it or not, the Administration cares about is students, both minority and majority. Second, if you want respect, you must express yourselves in a respectful man­ner. Until such time, SUFR will only be students united to dis­gust the rest of the campus. Lastly, if my demands are not met, I will be force to take whatever actions necessary to prompt SUFR to action. In other words, I will force you to read more of my menacing let­ters to the editor. 
John August Glassgow 
Dillon Hall Aprll18, 1991 
/3V/3N 85TTeR.. lH/3 INFRARW
~ HOIJJ'lJ AU TH& ttleAPON 
7H&­
t.!iY~ HOW UP IN 8AT­
5/GHTING tuA'3AtUfJI30Me. me 
5fK)(jtaf<­
8RA~ 7COK. H$ANI? 9.11?­THeWHATZ
W, MAN? 6fX)I?A9 7HIJY ~Y? 
MOUNTW
VJVW. 7H/3 HUMvtf;S N8V/3R R&WFAX.
I 
81<fJK/3/XJWN. ITtt/A!7 A 71?1-\ UMPH RI6HTA:J(()$ 
I
7H/3 80AR£J. 
'Half the harm that is done in 
this world is due to people who want to feel important.' 
T.S. Eliot 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Tuesday, April23, 1991 
Congress is currently debating the Brady bill. If enacted, the Brady bill would to two things: 
1) require potential gun buyers to wait for a 7 day "cooling off' period, and 2) require law enforcement agencies to run a background check on potential gun buyers. Does the Brady bill go too far? Not far enough? Perhaps the best way to answer these questions Is to critically examine the arguments of gun control opponents. 
First, the NRA and other gun control foes argue that the sec­ond amendment protests the "right to bear arms," and, therefore, prohibits gun control. This Is not an entirely accurate reading. the full text of the second amendment reads "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the peo­ple to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Infringed." 
The founding fathers clearly Intended to protect state mili­tias, not private individuals, from federal regulation. The phrase "the people" refers to the populace at large, not every Individual. Thus, the right of the populace at large to keep and bear arms In the form of "a well regulated military" does 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rick Acker In My Opinion 
not give every individual the same right. Even if the NRA's interpretation is correct, the second amendment says noth­ing about the right to buy guns without a waiting period or the type of guns which may be bought. 
A second argument often made by anti-gun control forces Is that easy access to guns is a great protection against criminals. On the surface this logic sounds good. According to FBI statistics, most gun carrying criminals get their weapons illegally. Therefore, runs the argument, gun control laws do nothing but make It difficult for law abiding citizens to protect themselves. The problem with this logic is that it doesn't work In practice. Countries which have tough gun control, such as Great Britain and Canada, have substantially fewer gun related crimes than America. The rea­son for this is simple. 
A cardinal rule of black mar­ket economics is that any prod­uct which can be obtained cheaply and easily legally can be obtained cheaply and easily 
Viewpoint 
page 9 
...v ..~···· too. nearly all of the guns used by criminal were at one point legally bought. The guns were then either stolen or illegally resold. Thus, gun con­trol laws would probably be an excellent way to keep guns out of the hands of criminals. We should not be surprised, then that those most threatened by violent crime, the police and in­ner-city residents, overwhelm­ingly support gun control. 
Moreover, according to police and FBI statistics, if you buy a gun to protect yourself or your home, your chances of being killed by a gun actually increase about eight times. The person who kills you will probably be a friend or family member of even yourself, and the gun that will be used will probably be yours. The chances of a friend or family member being shot also 

? 
• 
increase substantially. Statistically, having a gun around the house isn't a pro­tection, it's a threat. 
A third argument presented by gun control opponents is that gun control would be a heavy burden on hunters, target shooters, and collectors. This simply is not true. No legisla­ture has ever seriously consid­ered a gun control proposal that would seriously affect any of these groups. 
The large, expensive, and slow firing guns used by nearly all target shooters and hunters will not be affected by the Brady bill or any other serious proposal. moreover, few in these groups would be hindered by a 7 day waiting period or a background check. Likewise, collectors will not be affected by the bill or any other serious proposal. In fact, licensed col­lectors are the only private indi­viduals in America who can le­gally buy machine guns and similar weapons. 
The final argument commonly used by gun control opponents is that gun control restricts freedom in a country based on freedom. This is true, but mis­leading. Every person's free­dom may be legitimately limited when it seriously infringes on the rights of another. To use the classic example; my free­dom to swing my fist ends where your nose begins. Own­Ing, carrying, and u;sing guns are certainly freedoms, but they too often lead to gun misuse, which infringes on the rights of others, sometimes fatally. 
Reasonable gun control, such as the Brady bill, is legitimate because it limits our freedom only to the extent necessary to protect the rights of others. 
Gun control is not something which comes easily to me. I have been around hunting and guns all my life and own several guns myself. Moreover, I am a right wing libertarian and, therefore, Instinctively oppose any governmental attempt to restrict the freedom of Individ­uals. Nonetheless, the case for gun control Is too powerful to ignore. 
The Brady bill is a step in the right direction and will hope­fully be passed by Congress. As formers President Reagan, a Brady bill' supporter, reccn tly said, "it is time for America to get serious about gun control." 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

SUFR's ideas will hurt diversity 
Dear Editor: devoted to minority topics, and before. Of course, as anyone 
We are writing in response to accordingly more minority fac­does when they dare to speak address all the attention the ulty to teach these classes. We out on such an issue, we expect group, SUFR has been receiving understand SUFR's desire to to be called ignorant, racist, lately. SUFR claims its goal is educate people to minority per­etc., but we feel we have some­an environment where students spectives and concerns, but the thing to say. of all kinds can interact in a fact is that the Notre Dame By this letter we hope to give harmonious fashion. This is the curriculum already has too people an alternative viewpoint, furthest thing from the truth, or many requirements, and at and hope to heal the wounds
divisive and unproductive 
so it appears. It seems to us most only one course could be that SUFR has already inflicted Dear Editor: they are there. Students can that what SUFR really wants is required in this area. on the Notre Dame family. We I want to make a few points request such changes and a total polarization of this This means that while most feel that many agree with our -­concerning the group SUFR and argue their merit, but they have campus to a point where whites students would only take the view and we think that most 
and non-whites interact less one required class in the newly students, white and minoritytheir recent actions, including no right to demand them. 
than ever. created department, others, alike, want a Notre Damethose described in the Observer Perhaps the wheels of SUFR want designated space mostly minorities, would fill community where race and na­on April 18. These students change do not turn as quickly for minorities to be able to get their schedules with such tional origin mean nothing, andhave valid concerns to bring to as the members of SUFR would together. This is totally adverse classes. This means minority everyone is seen as just a per­the attention of the University like. That, however, is not an to the objective of "cultural students taking classes with son.
community, and to the excuse to trample the rights of diversity" which SUFR pays mostly other minority students SUFR is perpetuating the ex­administration In particular, but others in order to get their own 
such lip service to. taught by minority professors. act opposite. So don't let SUFRtheir means of doing so arc way. If every person or group If such space was given to Where is the diversity in that? do all the talking; write to thecounterproductive. with a grievance behaved like minorities there would soon be­Notre Dame, above all else, is Observer, or write to us, andTheir confrontational tactics SUFH, the result would be 
will alienate them from many anarchy. Notre Dame's role as come two kinds of activities at a community. SUFR, with its show you disagree with what Notre Dame, ones attended by sidewalk scribblings and sit-ins, SUFR stands for instead of
people, not bring them wider a center for higher learning and whites and ones attended by seems determined to divide this telling your roommates about it. 
support and sympathy. They a forum for the exchange of 

non-whites. This would dam­community. Not only are they Thank you. 
claim to "demand respect" but ideas would be shattered. 
age the Notre Dame social demanding things that would
their behavior (such as blocking SUFR talks much of their 
scene in that it would divide it. separate this university in effect Bill O'Brien students' access to University demands, but gives few indica­
What is so wrong with the cur­into two campuses, but even Jim DIJoseph offices and defacing the campus tions of being reasonable or 
rent system, where all student worse they are fostering ill will Grace Hall 
with chalk graffiti) Is Itself negotiable. Few things are 
groups have access to all areas? between the races on this Aprll19, 1991 disrespectful and undeserving more frustrating, or indeed SUFR demands more classes campus where it did not existof respect. Respect, one should frightening, than a group of realize, cannot be demanded, people who are absolutely cer­but only earned. It Is tain that they are right, you are something given freely, not wrong, and the rest of society taken by threats and force. Re­must conform to their viewpoint spect Is a two-way street. -by force If necessary. 
Some of SUFR's demands are To settle these disputes, both worthy of debate, but they are the administration and SUFR just that -debatable. For in­must be prepared to see the stance, an ethnic course re­other's point of view and to quirement may be a good idea, compromise. But understand but upon what grounds can any that negotiations do take time, group of students force their and In a compromise, neither private agenda upon the entire side ever gets everything it student-body (and faculty)? wants. 
Maintaining a comprehensive and balanced curriculum is the Bruce T. Lotz responsibility of the adminis­Off-campus tration and faculty-that's why Aprll18, 1991 

Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, April 23, 1991 
'Good Woman' Syburg's farewell to ND 
By JEAN HAZARD 
Accent Writer 
Is it possible to be successful while remaining a good person, or to be a good person while achieving success? 
Bertolt Brecht explores the paradox of trying to be both successful and good in his play "The Good Woman of Setzuan," which will be presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre in Washington Hall, Wednesday, April 24 through Sunday, April 28. 
The story is about three gods who roam the world to find truly good people. They are having little luck finding a place to stay until they meet Shen Te, a prostitute. Impressed by her kindness and goodness, the gods give her a gift of 1,000 silver dollars and urge her to remain good. 
Shen Te uses the money to buy a tobacco shop, but she drives the shop to the brink of ruin with her generosity. As a last resort, she disguises herself as an imaginary cousin, Shui Ta. As Shui Ta, she is a calculating businesswoman who makes the tobacco shop a profitable business. 
Shui Ta also arranges a fi­nancially advantageous mar­riage for Shen Te. The plan fails, however, when Shen Te falls in love with a penniless pi­lot named Yang Sun. Yang Sun is interested in Shen Te for her money to get him flying again. When Shen Te refuses to give him money, Yang Sun refuses to marry her. 
As her troubles increase, Shen Te relies more and more on the fictitious Shui Ta. Shen Te is absent for so long that Shui Ta is accused of kidnap­ping and murdering her. Shui Ta is put on trial with the three gods as her judges. When Shen Te reveals her disguise to the gods, they admonish her for her deception and instruct her not to call on Shui Ta again. 
The Good Woman of Setzuan 
A play by Bertolt Brecht English version by Eric Bentley 
Washington Hall Wed., April 24 -Sat., April 27 8:1 0 p.m. Sun., April 28 3:10 p.m. 
Reserved seats $7, but discounts are available. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune information desk. 
As the gods leave, believing they have found their good per­son, Shen Te finds herself in an impossible dilemma. Her last words are a cry for help. 
The production has special significance for both the cast and the Communication and Theatre department. At the end of this academic year, and after 37 years of service to Notre Dame as both teacher and di­rector, Professor Frederic Sy­burg will retire. "The Good Woman of Setzuan" will be Pro­fessor Syburg's final directing assignment as an active mem­ber of the department. 
Syburg joined the faculty of Notre Dame in September of 1954, and through the years he has directed a diverse array of plays from the classic Greek to the contemporary, and from serious drama to farce. This diversity has kept the work fresh for him, and the opportunity to watch the achievement of young artists has kept him in academic theatre. He keeps in touch with many former students through a newsletter called "Backstage" which he publishes twice each year. 
According to Tom Barkes of the Notre Dame Communica­tions and Theater Department, Syburg found two productions of his career particularly mem­orable. His production of "Amadeus" in 1988 came to­gether very close to the way he envisioned it. Audiences and 
'At the end of this academic year, and after 37 years of service to Notre Dame... Professor Frederick Syburg will retire.' 
critics also loved the produc­tion. "Amadeus" was the only play directed by Syburg that completely sold out before opening night. 
Another play, "We Bombed in New Haven," which was pro­duced in the early 1970's, was gratifying because it brought praise from author Joseph Heller. When he heard how Professor Syburg had staged the production, Heller com­mented that he wished he had done the same thing in New York. 
Professor Mark Pilkinton, 

Chair of the Department of Communication and Theater, said, "It has been my great privilege to work with Fred Sy­burg over the past seven years. He is an excellent teacher, su­perb director, and a consum­mate gentleman. Most impor­tantly, students and their needs come first with Fred. We will miss his quiet strength and as­tute counsel." 
Syburg's current challenge is to bring Bertolt Brecht's "The Good Woman of Setzuan" to life. In his contemporary version of the medieval morality play, Brecht displays a keen wit as he satirizes those who work to appear good while ruthlessly taking advantage of others. 
Brecht's "Epic Theatre" is a combination of dialogue, story­telling, songs, and occasional speeches directed to the audi­ence. Brecht illustrates his the­ory that it is impossible to have good without evil; you must meet evil with evil in order to do good. 
Syburg's approach in direct­ing the play will be to let the audience relate to the charac­ters and to become absorbed in the story. He has decided not to produce the play according to 
Simple Minds age ungracefully 

By JASON L. WINSLADE Accent Writer 
In my early days of high school I had a friend who was considered "punk," mainly be­cause she had a weird haircut. She had a picture of Jim Kerr crouched in a strange position stuck to her locker. 
I had only just recently heard of Simple Minds by seeing a video in '83 for "Promised You a Miracle" on that short-lived progressive video program from 
L.A. called "MV3." Simple Minds were progressive pop with an indescribable edge of sentimental strangeness unlike other Scotch/Irish bands like U2. 
I quickly researched the Minds' history which went back to the late 70's with their first album, "Life in a Day." After their pinnacle album in 1983, "New Gold Dream" came their harsher work, "Sparkle in the Rain." Then came the Break­fast Club, that paragon of teen flicks, with the theme song, and (gasp!) American airplay, "Don't You Forget About Me," a hit single not even written by the band. 
Like OMD, Simple Minds rocketed from relative obscu­--rity in this country to American 
stardom by an uninteresting song in a John Hughes film. Suddenly, Simple Minds were doing the Live-Aid, Amnesty, and Sun City thing, along with U2 and Bob Geldof. Jim got married to Chrissie Hynde of the Pretenders, the band re­leased a lame pop effort, enti­tled "Once Upon a Time," and toured huge venues world-wide. 
Just as "sell-out" was being screamed, the Minds came back with a predominantly session musician album, "Streetfighting Years," a work that successfully combined the band's new-found global consciousness, with complex layering of instruments in longer, more intense songs, an international sound, a Lou Reed guest vocal, and a striking cover of Peter Gabriel's "Biko." 
However, what worked once does not necessarily work again. 
Simple Minds' latest effort is entitled "Real Life." But if this is reality, life is pretty damn boring. With only three of the original members, Mel Gaynor on drums, Charlie Burchill on guitar, and Jim Kerr on vocals, the Minds have set the direction of their music right into the heart ofVH-1 heaven. 
Although the music on the al­bum's title track is fairly toler­able, the lyrics attempt to pre­sent "Real Life" on the streets and in cities, a theme better left to Lou Reed. 
All in all, most of the lyrical work on the album lacks origi­nality of any kind, and one longs for poetry like "We were on the top and the world was spinning, we were only young in a whirlpool of warning" from "Big Sleep." Kerr has over­worked his global conscious­ness into songs about generali­ties of "love" and "freedom," in "See the Lights" and "Stand by Love." 
Songs such as "Ghostrider" and "Travelling Man" try just too hard to be Top 40, and new ground is screaming to be cov­ered. "Let the Children Speak" is a bright spot on the album, with musical layering similar to what worked in "Streetfighting Years," and vestiges of older Minds styles appear. "African Skies" adds a contrast with Kerr's breathy and impassioned vocals, and tribal percussion. 
Two mellow songs, "Woman," and "Rivers of Ice," are actually romantic without stooping to cliches like the other songs on the album. The writing credit goes to MacLachlan, and with the intricate piano and acoustic guitar layering, it could be strict Brechtian theory because this technique employs an "alienation effect" to create distance between the players and the audience. Syburg be­lieves that the play can be even more powerful if the audience is allowed to become absorbed, and hopes his production will allow audience to become as in­volved as they wish. 
Brecht set "The Good Woman of Setzuan" in China to give an exotic flair to the play, but was not concerned with geographi­cal accuracy. (He thought the province of Setzuan was a city.) Syburg has stayed true to the Chinese flavor of the play. The loose, Oriental-style costumes for were designed by Richard E. Donnelly. 
The characters also wear masks throughout the perfor­mance. The masks serve a practical purpose for actress Siiri Scott, who alternates be­tween her roles of Shen Te and Shui Ta. Syburg decided to have the entire cast wear masks because "Brecht was pretty bizarre," according to actor Peter Dillard, and the masks add to the exotic effect. 
The set is built of old doors, window panes, tires, and posters gathered from the attics and garages of the producers. The second-hand, makeshift appearance of the set resembles the poor shanty town of Shen Te. The set is the same throughout the performance, and the multiple doors serve to represent both the inside and outside of the tobacco shop. The set and lighting will be done by Tim Brown. 
The play will be performed at 
8:10 p.m. Wednesday through Saturday, and at 3:10 p.m. on Sunday. Reserved seats are $7, and student and senior citizen discount tickets sell for $5 for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday performances. Tickets can be purchased at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
Canadian artist Sarah MacLachlan, darling of Net­twerk, Skinny Puppy's label. 
The closing track, "When Two Worlds Collide" is actually impressive display of rhythm, passionate vocals, and a theme concerning tension between ideals and reality. 
Despite the few interesting songs on the album, "Real Life" offers unimpressive guitar work, half-hearted enthusiasm with regard to originality and quality, and layering of instru­ments that just does not pro­duce the emotional effect achieved in "Streetfighting Years." 
Simple Minds seems like just another one of the products of the early 80's progressive movement that can't seem to age that gracefully. 
~-------~~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m.lo 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m.to 3 p.m. altha Saint Mary's office. 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All ciassifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES J  A major retail chain is accepting  House with indiv. Rooms avail. 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776.  PERSONAL  Top Ten Quotes from: Fun (Hung) & Learn Camp-out 10. How far have you gone in a  IIIIIJUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND  
applications lor a special security  in a Pinto? Moving or not?  DISK TO CAREER AND  
TYPING AVAILABLE  position at a local location. This is a  Summer Rent  IBM, COMMODORE. OR APPLE.  9. Roy Orbison turns me on.  PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR  
287-4082  lull-time position earning  Studio Apt., Turtle Creek  Cash paid for all makes of  (right Alese)  RESUME BOOKS NOW.  
competitive hourly rate. No  Furnished, utilities included.  Computers and Software. Computer  8. SNORT!!!! (How do you spell  DEADLINE FRIDAY. MAY 101  
experience necessary. Benefits  Call AI 273-9583.  software for IBM and IBM  that)  
Resumes...Professional quality  include major medical, life  compatible. Commodore or Apple,  7. I have a dull drill.  IF YOU THINK JOHN O'BRIEN IS  
272-5667. (Tom Williams)  insurance, vacations, available  Turtle Creek Townhouse  $2 each.  6. Had one WHAT with Eric.  UGLY, YOU SHOULD SEE HIS  
dental plan, available 401 K  For Summer Sublease  WESTERN ELECTRONICS  5. Let's all play with my  GIRLFRIEND. VOTE FOR HIM  
retirement plan, and more. To apply,  Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612  1530 WESTERN AVE.  Ding-a-ling-a-ling.  FOR UMOC ANYWAY.  
$$$tor books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  please write to: L.P. Manager, 841  287-7550  4. JM's harding all the  
hours 10-5:30 everyday  S. Kalamazoo Street. Paw Paw. Ml  wieners and holding the  MRS. O'BRIEN:  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  49079. Include phone #, address.  CONDO tor summer rental. Close  buns.  ARE YOU GOING TO SIT IDLE  
corner of NO Ave. & Howard  days available for work, and name  to ND. 2 bd, furnished. Rent  3. Here, use a condiment.  WHILE THEY CALL YOUR UTILE  
of newspaper ad seen in.  flexible !I Call 272-5708.  NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and  2. Keep your wiener stick to  BABY UGLY?  
trade, gold, silver, diamonds,  yourself.  
JOHN O'BRIEN IS NOT UGLY  LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5  jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's,  1. Lengthwise, at least  (on monday, April 22)  
JUST ASK HIS MOTHER  STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship  BDRMS. $700. 282-1014.  camcorders, cameras, air  there's a hole in it that  Meri-4  
Jobs $300 to $900 per week.  conditioners, microwaves, tools,  way.  
Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M­ A very spacious 1 bedroom!  Nintendo's, computers.  Have a great summer,  (on tuesday, April 23)  
F (317) 452-8809 Ext. C4.  Historical elegance!  OZARK TRADING POST  The Stupid Cheesehead who  Meri-3  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart. Award  Fireplace. French Doors­ 1530 WESTERN AVE.  talks too much ill  
Winning Hotel, has rooms lor  $385 mo. 287-5936  287-7550  (on wednesday, April 24)  
Graduation weekend. Located at  'also'  'TN D'  Meri-2  
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles  ATIENTION: Summer School  $385 month pays alii I  TROOP NOTRE DAME  
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2  Students. Earn $$$ as a Dorm  1 bedroom apt, fireplace, mini­ I got it.  II you missed us at St Ed's Carnival,  (on thursday, April 25)  
mghts with $110 deposit per room.  Supervisor for the Notre Dame  blinds 287-5936  Come. And be my baby.  there's still time ...  Merl-1  
Send letter with deposit to 3011  Hockey Camp. June 23rd  See us: Fri. April 26 at  
Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514.  -July 5th. Call N.D. Hockey Office it  NEED A SUMMER APARTMENT  An Tostal-3:30 and  (on friday, April 26)  
interested.  IN CHICAGO?  Latin Expressions  Hey world check her outllll  
239-5050  1986 ND alum needs a roommate  To all ENGL 491 A Warriors: "War is  "It's all in the way you groove"  And wish her a Happy Birthday!  
TYPING/WORD PROCESSING  for the summer in a fully furnished  an unending circle of pain"  'TN D'  Dial 284-GENT.  
SERVICE. 232-3325.  Lincoln Park location. The  
apartment is three blocks from both  VOTE FOR JOHN "I LIKE UGLY  
Third (male) roomate needed lor a  the "L" and the subway (10 min. ride  Tired of paying high taxi fares?  YARD PARTY AT THE SQUARE  MEN" O'BRIEN FOR UMOC.  
STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF  3-bedroom house next year. Nice  to the Loop) and 1/2 mile from Lake  Don't want to wait an hour lor a taxi  Friday, April 26th  
TIME?  house. Cheap.  Michigan. Rent is $300/mo. Call  to arrive?  Look for ticket sales all week- SEE AMERICA  
LASER QUALITY TERM  15-min walk from campus.  Mike at (312) 649-9407.  I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and  cups will be distributed upon arrival.  Save my sanity and drive with me to  
PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK  can give rides to the  Lots of beer, music, food and tun.  SPOKANE, WA alter finals. Come  
TURNAROUND.  x3234 Bob  Need female roommates lor Fall  airport/train/bus station the  Don't miss itlll  along to San Francisco too it you  
and Spring semesters at Turtle  weekend alter finals lor just $5.  want.  
MAIL BOXES  Creek.  Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a  Call x4844 for into.  
277-6245.  Need Roomate  Amanda, 271-1995  spot.  JOE ROBERTS: so it's a bit  
Summer; Year  late ... your birthday is EVERY day  
LOST/FOUND  $200.00 Mo. Call Lena  SUMMER RENTAL  lor us. Thanks lor being our fan club and South Bend navigaior. We love  AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91  
HELPI HELP! HELP! HELP! I LOST MY CROSS ON 3/27 IN  #3517 FOR RENT I  2 bdrm Townhome TURTLE CREEK Call Pete 1201  INTERNING IN CHICAGO THIS SUMMER? Female ND student needs roommate. Call Lynn at x4935.  you, even if you beat us in Drinktionary...The Farley Girls FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  ALTERNATIVE TUESDAY ALTERNATIVE TUESDAY ALTERNATIVE TUESDAY  
GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK ROPE IT HAS GREAT  L----------~ SUBLET TURTLE CREEK  ~~--F_O_R_S_A__LE__~ _  Moving off campus?  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER  Enjoy the Golf Tourney TQFTC The Mattress Drag TQFTC  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! A  TOWNHOUSE  Fantastic bar tor sale-less than a  AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK  The Univ. Food  
REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU  For Summer Months  ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO  year old. Also, various furniture  OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE  Services REAL LONG SUNDAE!  
FOUND IT PLEASE CALL:  CHEAP!!!!!!!!!  YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING  including beds  "INFORMATION EXCHANGE"  The Airband/Lypsync Contest  
MIKE AT 1788  Call Monica @ 283-4853  COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS.  (double and single), couches,  
GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO  tables, desks, bookshelves,etc.  AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91  
NO. LET'S EXPLORE  Call288-0597, Lafayette Square  STUDENTS:  AnTostal '91  
POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM)  Going home lor the summer? Need  
LOST: 2 Video tapes in the North  GRAD. WEEKEND  a place to stash your stuff? We  U Monday's results:  
Dining Hall. I lett them there on  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  have the place tor you I  M 1 . John O'Brien-131 votes  
Thur. (4-18) during lunch. Please  219-291-7153.  '86 RX7-GXL, mint, very low mi.,  JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE  0 2. Rob Kuennen-100 votes  
callII NO Questions Asked II  sun roof, stored, equalizer. loaded.  I need a ride to Cincinnati or Miami  272-2400  C 3. Brennan Harvath-80 votes  
Chris Balint 233-5882  259-7052.  U. 4/26-4/28. Christine x3884  4. Mark Manning ­5 votes  
An attractive studio in lovely old  5. Dan Maloney-1 vote  
mansion near N.D. $300 now  Vote for Ugly Man on Campus today  
renting lor summer &fall 91 call  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates  thru Thursday at Field House Mall  
LOST · BROWN LEATHER  2879624  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  IIII!JUNIORS, JUNIORS II!!!  and facility. Call Store-More Mini­ 4-6p.m.  
JACKET lost possibly in North  tor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.  Warehouse 654-3636.  
Dimng Hall. II found. please call  Office near campus.  SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND  JTM- 
Sam x3282.  DISK TO CAREER AND  You know I've been watching  
NYC SUMMER SUBLET  PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR  lor quite a while,  
AVAILABLE. $425/mo. May-Aug.  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  THE NOT-SO-ROYAL  I've become quite enchanted  
FOUND: A diamond ring near the  Call Barb (718) 802-0939.  89 GEO Spectrum  DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101  SHAKESPEARE COMPANY  with your great smile.  
library and Camp/math bldg on April  Great Gas Mileage- Presents  So, I dedicate this to the tall  
17th. Call 283-4570 to identify.  45/city 50/highway  man of my dreams,  
Still has factory warranty  "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS"  I hope you don't think this is  
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our  excellent buy, call Pat  II!!IJUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII  By William Shakespeare  a bit too extreme.  
N.D. alumnae family lor the most  288-5678  -call me  
......Lostllll1'..'''3·4 disks in a blue  attractive, well-maintained  SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND  Friday and Saturday,  Rachel 284-4314  
plastiC disk case; one says 'resume  apartments on Chicago's North  DISK TO CAREER AND  April 26 & 27 at 8 p.m.  
junk' on it. PLEASE return I !I  side I Hardwd floors, great closet  PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR  IN THEODORE'S  T  
Rewardllll Call Mark 273-9058.  space, lndry lacils .. conveniently  IRISH PUB NEAR N.D.-3 WAY  RESUME BOOKS NOWI  A IIIILIVEIIII  
located to public transp and  LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121  DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101  R At Club 23, Thursday 4125  
shopping. Call (312) 561-8224.  SOUTH BEND, IN 46624  T with Less Better Blues.  
We'd love to help you outl  OR CALL (219) 277-8526  Volunteering alter graduation?Sign  A Corne see the Gun get down  
Lost: 1 pair of pennyloaters at the  SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY  R.S.­ up at esc for volunteer send-off  A and get dirty. And always  
Senior Informal at St. Hedwigs. Call  Thank you for the flowers. It kills  ceremony by Apr. 24 Your parents  remember, "if we run out  
Jason x1845  FOR RENT FOR RENT  me tool! Call me.  will want to be therelll  G room, we'll pack ya' In the  
Plane Tix: SEATILE to ND in Fall.  -T.P.  U rear."  
BIG 4 BEDROOM /2 BATH  x1152  N  
WANTED  HOUSE WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. $600 FOR FOUR.  Volunteering post-grad?  HAPPY BIRTHDAY,  
10 MONTH LEASE.  Macintosh Image Writer II  JASON AND WILL,  Parents not too psyched about  ALLISON STAMBAUGHII  
CALL 271-0373  Printer For Sale. Less than one  THANKS FOR A FUN WEEKEND  the decision? Change their minds  My fellow delinquent,  
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK  year old. Excellent Condition!  TO A GREAT SIBLING AND OUR  at the volunteer send-off ceremony  you are Irreplaceable  
READING BOOKS AT HOME.  $300. Call Kathie  FAVORITE SHOULD-BE  on May 18 at 11aml  and I love you I  
CALL 1·615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES  @4045.  CHEERLEADER.  CHRISTINE  
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  JON AND ALISSA  
IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER  Hey! Do you want to  
3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE  87 Saab 900 Turbo, red, sunroof,  J The JPW Slide Show will  S.W.A.R.M.?  
Moving to Chicago? Female ND  NORTH OF ND 2773097  auto, 3-dr, low miles,$11 ,250, Ph  U be shown Monday, April  
grad needs roommate to share 2  277-8898  Favor Requested and Granted.  N 22, and Wed., April 24 at  
bedroom apartment. Must be a non­ Say this prayer 9 times per day for 8  I the Montgomery Theatre  ENGAGEMENT PARTY UPDATE:  
smoker. It interested, please call  days...it has never been known to  0 in LaFortune, 9:30-10  APRIL 25th  
Ann at (312) 935-1958.  FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN,  CRATE and MARSHALL guitar  tail. Publication must be promised.  A p.m. Be there, or be a  
AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE,  amps. Call Scott @ 234-3356  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be  S foolish little piglet.  CUM AS YOUR FAVORITE NEW  
NEED NO FB CARD 1110. $$$  UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N.  adored, glorified, loved, and  KIDI GUESS THE LUCKY  
Chris x4415  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  TALLAHASSEE PLANE TICKET  preserved throughout the world now  COUPLE AND WIN THE PRIZE II  
FOR 5113. (1-WAY OR ROUND TRIP-BACK 5119). B/0. CALL 283­ and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray lor us. St. Jude worker of  .....YARD PARTY........  295 LeMans • 295 LeMans  
4538 OR LV. MSG. AT 283-3991.  miracles pray lor us. St. Jude help  Friday, April 26th  
PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASEI I need a ride lo Cincinnati this weekend. Will pay own way.  Excellent 3-bdrm. house, 1 mi. from NO, on bus line, near stores, etc. Grad. Stud. pre!. Call 2884300, lv.  TICKETS  of the hopeless pray for us. Thank you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and Mary! -J.S.  Look for cups all weeki .......................  Fritz Klein, At your party this past Saturday night, I could barely keep my  - 
CONTACT X1811 anytime.  message.  aching, lustful thighs from jumping  
Need two Graduation tickets  on your manly physique. You are  
PLEASE! II Call Bathe 288-0597  IF YOU THINK HE'S UGLY IN  the epitome of my every throbbing  
Retail security in store. Store  SUBLETIOR AND/OR RENTOR  HEY KRIS-TONII  BROAD DAYLIGHT , YOU  desire! Please don't graduate and  
detective, experience preferred but  NEEDED  SENIORS!  Every dog has its dayll  SHOULD SEE JOHN O'BRIEN IN  leave me unlullllledlll  
not necessary. Training program.  Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm  I need 1 Grad ticket  HIS TIGHTY-GREENIES  II you don't satisfy me soon I'll be  
Benefits include major medical, life  sublet from June -August  Please call Martha x4271  lull of remorse because rumor has it  
Insurance. vacations, available  and/or share lease from Jan.-May.  that you're hung like a HORSE IIIII  
dental plan. available 401 K  Callx3828  HELP!  SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315  .....Your lustful admirer' ..  
retirement plan and more. Send  I need a ticket to graduation.  each way on discounted scheduled  LONDON SPRING '90.  
background Info. with phone # to  (Just one little ticket)  airlines to Europe from Chicago.  THURSDAY APRIL 25 AT 9:00  Here it comes Naughmen-the  
L.P. Manager. 841 S. Kalamazoo  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr.  If you've got one please call  Call (800) 325-2026.  BEACON BOWLING. JOIN USI  Toomski: live at the Mr. Campus  
Street. Paw Paw, Ml 49079.  Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776.  Mike @ 283-1116  contest, Thursday night. Be there.  

personal feelings, it came down 
SPOR1SBRIEFS 
Three Irish set
to dollars and cents."
Toronto 
However, Abram said New •ND/SMC Sailing Club: There will be an important meeting 
team records
England's skepticism about
continued from page 16 
tonight at the Boathouse at 6:30 pm. Also, come down to helpIsmail's potential impact also with equipment repairs today from 3-5:30 pm at the Boathouse.
hurt the team's chances of 
at track meet
hurt by it." 
Any questions, call Julie at 284-5197.
signing him. 
When Abram mentioned the "When you're trying to recruit
incident to Sam Jankovich, the Russell Maryland. with the Argonauts. The 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
a guy as unique as the Rocket,
Patriots' chief executive officer Jankovich said he warned Raiders will retain the NFL 
Sports Writer 
you don't beat him down with
apologized. Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson rights to Ismail until the 1995
negatives," Abram said. "We
"Joe was under a lot of pres­and team owner Jerry Jones draft, about eight months after The Notre Dame women's 
believe Rocket is an impact
sure," Jankovich said. ''I'm that they would have a hard his CFL contract expires. 
track team finished in sixth
player and a superstar.
sure he didn't mean to insult time signing Ismail. 
place as it participated in the Obviously, the Patriots didn't
Rocket in any way." "I just thought the price was The same strategy was suc­
Indiana Intercollegiates in
agree."
Mendes won't confirm or deny too high," Jankovich said. cessful with Bo Jackson. The 
Indianapolis over theJankovich denied that the
that he made the remark, but "Rocket's people told us we Raiders drafted Jackson in the weekend. Indiana UniversityPatriots minimized Ismail's tal­
says he is sorry if he offended would sell 10,000 more season seventh round in 1987 after he 
won the meet scoring a totalent in order to drive down his
Ismail. tickets if we signed him. failed to sign with Tampa Bay, of 173 points, with Purdue
asking price of $15.5 million
"If I insulted the gentleman, I Frankly, I don't think he would which had picked him a year finishing a distant secondover five years. But he admitted
truly do apologize," Mendes mean 500 season tickets." earlier. Jackson signed with the with 126 points. 
the team didn't think Rocket
said. "He's a class individual The Patriots went 1-15 last Raiders after the Bucs' rights
deserved a mega-contract.
and I wish him nothing but the season, the worst record in the expired. 
Point scorers for Notre
"He's not a quarterback,"
best." NFL. "It looks like AI Davis has done Dame included Lisa Gorski'sJankovich said. "If you're going 
Abram says the incident didn't "The name of the game is it again," Abram said. "He's 
fourth-place finish in the
to ask for that kind of money,
play a major part in Ismail's winning, and we need a lot always one step ahead of the 
3000-meters (10:25.80),
you have to handle the ball
decision to go to Canada, even more good players to win," competition." 
Diana Bradley's fourth-place more than 10 times a game."
though Rocket mentioned Jankovich said. "To sink all our Asked if Ismail would eventu­
in the 800-meters
After negotiations broke down 
Sunday that he was impressed resources into one player would ally play for the Raiders, Abram 
(2:16.88-a new school
with the Patriots, they traded
by the "cultural diversity" and have been a travesty." said: "Rocket has a four-year record) and Latrice Waters
their rights to the No. 1 draft
progressive racial climate in One man willing to gamble on contract. At the end of four fifth-place finish in the 100pick to Dallas. But the Cowboys 
Toronto. Ismail was Los Angeles Raiders years, he's going to take a look meters (12:59).
also refused to meet Ismail's
"It was basically an economic owner AI Davis, who picked around. If the Raiders are still Waters was satisfied with salary demands and decided to
decision," Abram said. Rocket in the fourth round even interested, I'm sure Rocket will 
her performance althoughtake Miami defensive tackle
"Regardless of Mr. Ismail's though he had already signed want to talk to them." 
the weather conditions were not ideal. 
Cyclists making strides in first competitive season 
"We were really cold andweekend was a moderate sue-lapse. 
unprepared for the weather,
By JIM VOGL ues to make significant strides. 
cess, but there was a crash at "We've had a lot of bad luck. 
making it hard to warm up,"
Sports Writer For instance, eight riders (four the finish line," Etzel com-Hopefully in another week or Waters said. 
freshmen) traveled to compete 
mented. two I'll be able to start practic-Although scoring only 10The Notre Dame Cycling Club's in the Regional Championships In Chicago the previous week-ing again," he said. 
points for the meet, three
first season has been an uphill meet in Miami, Ohio, last end, the Irish entered a cri-While the Irish racing season Irish performers were able to
battle. weekend. 
terium race, run on a mile or has concluded (the nationals 
set new school records.
"We've done pretty well for a In the C-category, Bob mile-and-a-half track, totaling only accept the top two teams in 
Along with Bradley's BOO­
first year team, considering we Kobayashi took second place, 
about a 20-30 mile distance, the region), the team antici­meter mark, Karen Harrisonly organized it in January while freshman Sean Carroll 
which emphasized bike han-pates success next season. 
threw the shot put 41-11 3/4and didn't start training until finished ninth. Darren Buck 
dling. "This year's squad had 32 rid-and Andrea Feaster clearedabout two or three weeks be­also placed fifth in the B-race 
Rain plagued the riders, ers and 14 of them were en­
4-9 3/4 in the high jump. 
fore the first race," said fresh­on Sunday. 
causing another wipe-out, tered in races. We're looking man Karl Etzel. The "road" race was run on which included Carroll (who for new riders for next year. 
The Notre Dame women's "Other established programs 
an eight mile circuit, incorpo­wound up finishing ninth), While we will eventually form a 
track team travels to Muncie,have a larger pool of riders to rating hilly terrain. The B race Etzel, and sophomore Chris team of eight to ten competitive 
Ind. on April 27, for a dualdraw from and work together went 43 miles, while the C race Lenhart (sixth). Rob Stevenson riders for races, we also wei­meet against Ball State. 
better," continued Etzel. went 33. 
also took 14th in the B race. come those on the recreational Despite the disadvantages of "Out of the 28 teams in the Etzel sustained a cracked rib, level to get in shape and prac­the late start, the team contin-region, we finished 16th. This which forced his lung to col-tice with us," said Etzel. 
---------------------------------,
MGT 231 02 1474 PLS 442 02 1829
CLOSED SECTIONS AS BA 230 01 049S EE 361L 03 OS61 GO~T 343T 01 2853 
MGT 231 03 1476 PSY 211 01 1833
OF 7:00 P.M. 4/22/91 BA 230 04 0501 EE 361L 06 3114 GOVT 343T 02 2854 
THEO 226 01 0156
MGT 231 04 1478 PSY 250 01 1836ACCT 231 01 0265 BA 230 06 3155 ENGL 300A 01 2771 GOVT 343T 03 2855 
THEO 227 02 3059PSY 341 02 2251
ACCT 231 04 0268 BA 230 07 3156 ENGL 301A 01 lOll GOVT 343T 04 2856 MGT 240 04 1486 THEO 228 01 3060
MGT 240 05 1487 PSY 341 03 2250ACCT 231 05 0269 BA 362 01 0504 ENGL 311 02 2775 GOVT 343T 05 2857 
THEO 242 01 3061
MGT 240 06 3165 PSY 341T 02 1922ACCT 231 09 0273 BA 363 01 0505 ENGL 312 02 2776 GOVT 343T 06 2858 
THEO 245 01 3062
MGT 488 01 3339 PSY 341T 03 1893ACCT 231 10 0274 BA 363 02 0506 ENGL 314E 01 3203 GOVT 343T 07 2859 
THEO 246 01 0153
MI 308 01 2501 PSY 342 01 1839
ACCT 231 11 0275 BA 363 03 0507 ENGL 315B 01 2698 GOVT 401 01 2851 THEO 247 01 3063
MI 309 01 2935 PSY 389 01 2352
ACCT 231 12 0276 BA 363 04 0508 ENGL 317C 01 2779 GOVT 404 01 2863 THEO 250 01 0102
MI 432A 01 2956 PSY 395 01 2599ACCT 231 15 0279 BA 363 05 0856 ENGL 317T 03 2782 GOVT 408 01 1167 THEO 251 01 0082MI 435A 01 2942 PSY 421 01 3003ACCT 231 16 0280 BA 363 06 3154 ENGL 317T 05 27S4 GOVT 413 01 1169 MSA 544 01 3176 PSY 454 01 3004 THEO 251 02 0081
ACCT 231 17 0281 BA 391 01 0212 ENGL 317T 07 2786 GOVT 426 01 2665 
MUS 220 01 2959 PSY 455 01 3005 THEO 253 01 0148
ACCT 231 18 0282 BA 391 02 0211 ENGL 31ST 02 2791 GOVT 447 01 2495 
MUS 220 02 2960 PSY 481 01 3006 THEO 255 01 3323
ACCT 334 03 0287 BA 391 03 2223 ENGL 31ST 04 2793 GOVT 472 01 2870 
MUS 221 01 2122 ROFR 102A 03 2021 THEO 260 01 0147ACCT 334 04 0288 BIOS 304 01 0527 ENGL 319A 01 1018 GSC 220 01 3221 MUS 223 01 2961 ROFR 103 07 2029 THEO 260 02 3412ACCT 334 05 0289 BIOS 304L 01 0528 ENGL 319A 02 1019 GSC 328 01 2700 MUS 226 01 1557 ROFR 201 01 2033 THEO 261 01 0146ACCT 334 06 1477 BIOS 304L 02 0529 ENGL 32SA 01 2794 GSC 412B 01 3223 NSCI 211 03 1613 ROFR 310 01 2037 THEO 262 01 2358ACCT 371 02 0291 BIOS 341 01 0530 ENGL 340 01 3317 GSC 430 01 3218 NSCI 311 02 1617 ROFR 310 02 0254 THEO 265 01 0145ACCT 371 03 0292 CAPP 253 01 0609 ENGL 384B 01 2796 GSC 480Z 01 3227 ROFR 465 01 3015 THEO 274 01 0143NSCI 311L 01 1621ACCT 371 05 0294 CAPP 331 01 3315 ENGL 399A 01 2567 HIST 225 01 0377 PHIL 201 02 1657 ROIT 101 01 2039 THEO 281 01 2547
ACCT 371 06 0295 CAPP 361 01 0612 ENGL 408Z 01 279S HIST 230 01 2904 ACCT 372 01 0296 CE 242 01 0617 ENGL 414Z 01 2S01 HIST 230T 02 2903 
PHIL 201 03 1658 ROIT 101 02 2040 THEO 287 01 3065 PHIL 201 05 1660 ROIT 101 03 2041 THEO 395 01 2549
ACCT 475 03 0301 CE 331 01 0620 ENGL 415 01 2596 HIST 392 01 2911 
PHIL 201 06 1661 ROIT 111F 01 2333ACCT 475 04 0302 CHEG 255 01 0643 ENGL 415C 01 2802 HIST 393 01 2507 PHIL 201 07 1662
ACCT 476 02 2371 CHEG 255T 02 3090 ENGL 416E 01 2803 HIST 394 01 1203 ROSP 101 02 2047 
PHIL 201 08 1663 ROSP 101 03 2048ACCT 476 06 0219 CHEG 459 02 0650 ENGL 416F 01 2804 liPS 310 01 3236 
PHIL 05
ACCT 479 01 0307 CHEM 119L 01 2429 ENGL 416Z 01 2805 liPS 320 01 2384 201 09 1664 ROSP 101 2050 AERO 444L 02 0317 CHEM 119L 02 2431 ENGL 41SC 01 2806 LAW 591 01 1258 PHIL 201 10 1665 ROSP 103 02 2059 
PHIL 201 11 2724
AERO 446L 02 0323 CHEM 223 01 0677 ENGL 425 01 2807 LAW 601 01 1265 ROSP 103 04 2061 AFAM 260 01 3263 CHEM 223L 04 0683 ENGL 42SA 01 2810 LAW 603 01 1269 
PHIL 201 12 0249 ROSP 103 05 2062 AFAM 368 01 3265 CLAS 305 01 2445 ENGL 435 01 2812 LAW 631A 01 1286 
PHIL 201 13 0235 ROSP 103 06 2063 AFAM 371 01 3273 CLAS 32S 01 2699 ENGL 435A 01 2813 LAW 631B 01 1287 
PHIL 220 01 2976 ROSP 103 09 2066 AFAM 374 01 3266 CLLA 115 02 0727 ENGL 440 01 1256 LAW 631C 01 1288 
PHIL 221 01 1667 ROSP 103 10 2067 AFAM 401 01 3267 COTH 201 01 2450 ENGL 464 01 2816 LAW 6310 01 1289 PHIL 222 01 1669 ROSP 103 11 2068 AFAM l120 01 3286 COTH 205 01 2454 ENGL 475A 01 2819 LAW 633 01 1295 
PHIL 222 02 2977 ROSP 201 02 2072 AFAM 452 01 3275 COTH 215 01 0383 ENGL 478A 01 2820 LAW 695 01 1300 
PHIL 222 03 2978 ROSP 201 03 2073 AFAM 455 01 3269 COTH 229 01 2221 ENGL 4SSZ 01 2823 LAW 695 02 1301 
PHIL 225 01 2525 ROSP 201 04 2074 AL 211 01 0332 COTH 351 01 31S4 ENGL 491 01 2824 LAW 695 03 1302 PHIL 231 01 2980 ROSP 235 01 2076 AL 211 02 0333 COTH 369 01 0741 ENGL 494 01 2825 LAW 695 04 1303 PHIL 232 01 2528 ROSP 237 01 3021 AL 211 03 0334 COTH 37S 01 2460 ENGL 495B 01 2826 LAW 695 05 1304 PHIL 235 01 1671 ROSP 318 01 2078 AL 211 05 0336 COTH 461 01 0739 FIN 360 01 1055 LAW 695 06 3356 PHIL 239 01 1218 ROSP 328 01 2079 AL 211 06 0337 COTH 47S 01 31S7 FIN 360 02 1056 MARK 231 03 1308 PHIL 239 02 1029 
soc 220 01 2097 AL 211 09 0340 CSE 331 01 3097 FIN 360 03 1057 MARK 231 04 1309 PHIL 241 01 3395 soc 232 01 2538 AL 211 10 0341 DESN 217S 01 0749 FIN 360 04 1058 MARK 231 07 1312 PHIL 242 01 3301 soc 260 01 3029 AL 211 15 0346 ECON 224 02 07S3 FIN 360 05 1060 MARK 231 08 1313 PHIL 244 01 2530 313 01 3031
soc 
AL 211 18 0349 ECON 224 04 07S5 FIN 360 06 1061 MARK 350 02 1316 PHIL 246 01 1672 soc 332 01 3302 AL 211 19 0350 ECON 224 05 07S6 FIN 361 01 1062 MARK 350 03 3164 PHIL 246 02 1673 soc 342 01 2540 AL 211 20 0351 ECON 225 01 07S9 FIN 361 02 1063 MARK 370 02 1318 PHIL 246 03 2981 soc 401 01 3033 AL 211 21 0352 ECON 301 02 0793 FIN 361 06 1067 MARK 492 01 2520 PHIL 247 01 2593 STV 247 01 2591 AL 211 23 0354 ECON 302 01 0794 FIN 361 07 1068 MATH 221 01 1369 PHIL 250 01 2982 
STV 253 01 2532 AL 211 24 0355 ECON 303 01 0796 FIN 376 01 1072 MATH 221 02 1370 PHIL 253 01 2531 STV 354 01 3049 AL 211 25 0356 ECON 303L 02 31S9 FIN 376 03 1074 MATH 225T 01 3134 PHIL 257 01 3335 STV 454 01 2397 AL 211 27 0358 ECON 315 01 257S FIN 376 04 1075 MATH 225T 02 3135 PHIL 261 01 1674 THEO 200 03 0179 AL 211 2S 0359 ECON 350 01 0797 FIN 3SO 02 1077 MATH 225T 03 3136 PHIL 264 01 2983 THEO 200 04 0177 
PHIL 265 01 1675 THEO 200 05 0176AL 211 30 0361 ECON 421 01 0799 FIN 380 03 1078 MATH 226 01 1379 
-
PHIL 265 02 2984 THEO 200 06 0175AL 211 34 0365 ECON 434 01 3192 FIN 462 01 1080 MATH 325 01 1384 
PHIL 268 01 1676 THEO 200 07 0168AMST 346 01 3312 ECON 443 01 osoo FIN 473 01 1084 MATH 325 02 1385 
PHIL 268 02 1677 THEO 200 08 0167 AMST 475 01 3310 ECON 4S4 01 2470 GE 101 03 1146 MATH 325 04 3139 
AMST 360 01 3383 ECON 457 01 3195 FIN 478 01 1085 MATH 325 03 3138 
PHIL 464 01 1680 THEO 200 09 0166 
PHYS 210 01 3145 THEO 200 11 0164ANTH 329 01 2631 EDUC 201F 04 8404 GE 103 02 1150 MATH 335 01 1386 
ANTH 375 01 273S EE 224L 01 OS2S GOVT 340 01 1161 MATH 335 02 0605 
PHYS 221L 02 1710 THEO 200 12 0163 THEO 200 13 0162
ANTH 388 01 2600 EE 241L 01 0834 GOVT 340 02 1162 MBA 620 01 3387 PHYS 221L 04 1711 
ANTH 444 01 2390 EE 241L 03 OS36 GOVT 341 01 2484 MBA 642 01 3392 
PHYS 221L 06 1713 THEO 200 14 0181 ANTH 450 01 2736 EE 342L 01 0846 GOVT 342 01 1165 MBA 649 01 2178 
PHYS 222 01 1714 THEO 200 18 0159 342T 2365 PHYS THEO 0252
ANTH 454 01 2396 EE 342L 02 OS47 GOVT 01 MBA 672 02 1446 222L 02 3151 200 20 
ARHI 397 01 2739 EE 342L 03 084S GOVT 342T 02 2366 MBA 673 01 3393 
PHYS 229 01 1716 THEO 200 22 3320 ARHI 457 01 239S EE 342L 04 3112 GOVT 342T 03 2367 MBA 673 02 3394 
PHYS 229L 02 1719 THEO 200 23 3321 ARHI 464 01 2282 EE 347 01 OS 53 GOVT 342T 04 2368 MBA 677 01 3385 
PHYS 331L 01 1725 THEO 224 02 3058 ARHI 471 01 2742 EE 348T 02 2171 GOVT 342T 05 3295 MBA 677 02 3386 ARST 133S 01 0434 EE 361 02 OS5S GOVT 342T 06 3296 ME 241 01 30SO 
DART COURSES ADDED 
ARST 289S 01 274S EE 361L 01 OS 59 GOVT 343 01 1166 ME 241 02 3081 
ROSP 237 02 3413 Compostition Level Ill, 3 cr. hrs., 12:15-01:05 MWFARST 325S 01 0448 EE 361L 02 0860 GOVT 343 02 1022 ROSP 238 02 3414 Survey of Spanish A mer. Lit. I, 3 cr. hrs., 12:15-01:05 MWF 
... '• a "t' ...· ......... ·.·: 

Tuesday, April 23, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Belles softball to host Irish today 
By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's College softball team (9-8) will play host to Notre Dame (25-19) in a double header today at 3:30 p.m. 
The starting pitcher for the Belles will be Stephanie Kisseorni (8-6), who carries an EHA under 2.0 into the contest. Saint Mary's also obtains a strong batting line up with Katherine Grobner leading the team with a batting averagn of .323. 
"Notre Dame has a strong pitching staff," praised Saint Mary's coach Maureen Hardy, "If we can get our bats going early, we have a better chance of coming out on top." 
Last season Notre Dame de­feated Saint Mary's 1-0 in a game consisting of five innings which had to be called because of rain. 
The Irish will start pitcher Missy Linn, (10-10) who posts an EHA of 1.64. 
"We're beginning to hit as a team," stated Irish coach Brian Boulac. "I think our pitching staff will establish itself. We just have to keep the ball rolling and we should do fine." 
SMC track finishes second 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's track team finished second overall at this past Saturday's Carthage Invitational in Kenosha, Wise., the highest-ever finish for the team at a meet of this kind. 
Overcoming 40-degree tem­peratures and high winds, the Belles accumulated 72 points to finish behind St. Norbert's College in the nine-team competition. 
"For the conditions, everyone ran really well," junior sprinter Beth Seymour, who won the 400-meter dash, said. "We've had a rough season injury-wise, and a lot of people overcame their injuries and ran good races." 
Although Seymour was their only individual winner, four Belles finished second in their respective events, including two school-record breaking performances-Katie Linehan 
(12.9 in the 100 meters) and Lynn Pfeiffer (33-7 1/2 in the triple jump). In addition, Pfeiffer took second in the javelin and Christy LaBarbera in the 100-meter high hurdles. 
Women's golf finishes slate with optimism 
By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
·The conclusion to the Notre Dame women's golf team's sea­son was bittersweet. 
The Irish showed flashes of brilliance, as they led the Purdue Lady Boilermaker Invitational after the completion of the first round. The following two rounds were not as kind to the Irish, and they finished in fourth place with a total of 1016 strokes. 
The tournament was won by Ohio State, shooting a total of 970 for the 54 holes. They were headed up by Tami Dougan, who breezed to a 239, winning the individual medal honors. Sophomore Kathy Phares and junior Allison Wojnas were the leading scorers for the Irish, both shooting a total of 254 strokes. 
Keyed by excellent rounds by Phares, Wojnas, Pandora Fecko, and Cappy Mack, the Irish came out firing to a three shot lead over Ohio State. But the cold weather and poor playing conditions got to the Irish, putting a damper on their title hopes. 
"I'm encouraged by the first round," said coach Tom Hanlon. "It is indicative of what we can do when we play well. It proves we can compete against the big teams." 
The Irish lose two starters next year, captain Hoberta Bryer and Pandora Fecko. Coach Hanlon is encouraged, however, because of the experi­ence the team gained, and the competitiveness they showed. 
''I'm looking forward to next fall," explained Hanlon. "We accomplished getting below 320 (strokes) at Michigan State. But, our objective next year is to tee it up to win every time. In order to do that, we must shoot around 320 every time." 
Lax travels to Lake Forest in first of three road games 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Irish Lacrosse team has a 5-6 record with only three games left in the season. In order to return to the NCAA tournament again this year, the Irish must begin their trek with a win against Division III Lake Forest College. 
"Being in the NCAA is one of the best feelings in the world and we'd like to do it again," said sophomore midfielder Brian Mayglothling, who tallied three goals and four assists in last season's contest. 
Today's game against Lake Forest is the next crucial step in getting there. 
Past bouts against Lake Forest have been victorious, as the Irish sports a 9-0 record in their series with the Foresters. In their last game, the Irish crushed the Foresters 22-8. 
"But still, this game is not to be taken lightly," said Mayglothling. 
One of the biggest concerns facing the Irish is concentra­tion. 
"Our problem is not whether or not we're playing hard; it's just mentally tiring playing a full 60 minute game,K he said. "And with a sport that demands a great deal of confidence, poise and physical strength we need to concentrate." 

page 14 
Weather, key absences plague Irish men's track at Indy 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
After a weekend at the University of Tennessee's Dogwood Relays, the Notre Dame men's track and field team returned to its home state Saturday to participate in the Indiana Intercollegiate meet. 
The meet featured top teams from across the state including Purdue, Ball State and Indiana University. 
However, the contest's most 
Draft 
continued from page 16 
Francisco Forty-Niners made him the second of ten Irish players taken. 
"I know that Ricky is very happy," said Watters' mother, Mrs. Marie Watters. "Ricky left for the 49ers mini-camp this morning. San Francisco is where he really wanted to go. 
"Some other teams-the Cowboys, the Dolphins and the Steelers-had called him, but he really wanted to go to the 49ers. He felt that it would be a great honor to be on a team with Joe Montana. He really got his wish." 
Jones also got his wish. 
"I thought that I would end up with Detroit, the New York Giants, San Francisco, the Los Angeles Raiders or the Steelers because those are the people who have been in contact with me the most," said Jones. "I'm happy because I got into a great defensive scheme. I'll play nickel-back and a little bit of strong safety because of my 
Rocket 
continued from page 16 
55-meter event at the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships last month. Also in the event will be John Drummond of Texas Christian and James Jett of West Vrrginia. 
Baker assumed Ismail still was coming despite his widely heralded signing with the Toronto Argonauts. 
Neither an agent for Ismail nor a spokesman for the Argonauts immediately re­turned a phone call for com­ment on whether Ismail would run at Penn. 
During the recent indoor sea­son, Ismail ran the 55 meters in 
6.07 seconds, making him the lOth-fastest collegian ever. Last weekend, Ismail competed in his first 100-meter race of the season in a quadrangular meet with St. John's, Western Michigan and Drake. His win­ning time of 10.34 bettered the NCAA provisional qualifying time. 
While Ismail's football ac­complished are well known, his track performances have not been highly publicized. But at Meyers High School in Wilkes­Barre, Pa., he was named male athlete of the year by state track and field coaches. At the state meet his senior year, he won the 100 meters (10.63), the long jump (23 feet, 4 inches) and anchored the winning 400-meter relay team. 
Later in his senior year, Ismail took second in the Golden West invitational 100 meters and placed second at the TAC junior meet. His 6.28 mark in the 55 led the nation for the '88 season. 
formidable opponent proved to be the strong headwinds and low temperatures which ham­pered performances throughout the day. 
While every squad was forced to deal with the in­clement weather, Notre Dame's problems were compounded by the absence of many key ath­letes. 
"It was a really lousy day," remarked assistant coach Tim Connelly. "The weather was un­cooperative and we didn't have 
quickness; they said that they plan to use me on third downs to cover backs and receivers." 
Yet defensive alignments were not the only reason for Jones's pleasure. George Stewart, who coached special teams at Notre Dame for several seasons before moving on to Pittsburgh, will again tutor Jones. 
"Coach Stewart coached me for a year and a half. It's good to be back out with him. He's one of the major factors in my going there. Basically, he told them that I could play. They thought I'd be gone by the sev­enth round, but they were glad I was there and they made the choice." 
Jones, however, also enjoyed the draft itself. 
"It was wild," exclaimed Jones. "I was sitting in the room and waiting. The phone would ring and I'd jump up. You're just hoping that it's a team you like and want to play for. I was on pins and needles. They gave me a certain round range and it was running out when the Steelers picked me." 
Kowalkowski enters a new situation with the Eagles under a lot of our top guys compet­ing." 
The Irish sprinting squad was depleted as several athletes stayed in South Bend to partic­ipate in spring football drills. 
Also, the team was without the services of distance stand­outs Ryan Cahill and Mike O'Connor, both of whom skipped the meet to run in California's prestigious Mt. SAC Relay Carnival. 
Fortunately, the team's call for veteran leadership was 
first-year head coach Rich Kotite, but the eighth-round pick is optimistic about his chances of making the team. 
"Throughout my career, I've walked into new situations and it always seemed to work out," he said. "If that's any kind of omen, I look at it as a good one. 
"For me to make the team, I'm going to have to play well on special teams. But I'll have a better idea of where I stand and of what my role will be after mini-camp starts Thursday." 
Heldt, who some experts thought would go as high as the fourth or fifth rounds, was slightly disappointed that he fell all the way to the lOth. Yet like Kowalkowski, Heldt believes that he has a very good chance of making the team in San Diego. 
"Everyone is pretty much even right now, and once I make the team, I'll feel a lot better," Heldt said. "I'm ready to work really hard, and with a lot of determination, I'll make 
it.H Lyght, Zorich, Dahl, Stonebreaker, Watters, Ryan and Ismail were all unavailable for comment. 
Yourlastchance 
forextracredit 
beforegraduation 

All you have to do is take a field ttip to our deale~p and show us your student l.D., driver's license and proof of a job ~r graduation. Chances are, you'll be eligible for up to 60 monthS financing on any new Nissan~ with no money down and no 
payments for 90 days. . , . . 
Now, this extta credit cant trnprove your grades. But tt can certainlyget you out of school in ahuny. 
Nomoneydown.Nopaymentsfor 90days. 
_,~~-:
p 
Gee> 
2500 W. Lexington Ave. 
15 minutes from campus 
"On the Bypass at 3 points"
Call Tom Naquin, N.D. Oass of 76 
ELKART 
toll free 674-6059 
quickly answered by Kevin Buhrfiend, who registered a 10,000 meter personal best 
31:42 in the day's opening track event. 
Buhrfiend, who in his fourth year of service has become a mainstay of the Irish distance team, finished eighth overall in the race. 
However, the Notre Dame senior's performance was one of few highlights as the gusting winds halted Irish momentum. 
Notre Dame was revived momentarily in the final event of the day as the 4x400 team of Chris Ross, John Evans, Brian Peppard, and Phil Casper turned in a season best time of 3:17. 
In the field events, the Irish received solid performances from long jumper Jeff Smith, who grabbed fourth place with a season best leap of 23 feet 8 inches. 
Discus thrower Tony Smith equalled the feat of his name­sake with a heave of 158 feet, marking his best effort of the season. 
Next week, Notre Dame will participate in the Drake Relays, considered the premier track and field event in the Midwest. 
Correction 
In yesterday's Scoreboard section, two incorrect results were reported from the women's Bookstore Tournament. "D-Money & 4 New Jack Sisters" defeated "Turlet Police" 21-8 and "Hoosier Lawyers" defeated "Good for Two Periods; No Second String" 21-8. The Observer regrets the error. 
HAP:PY 21ST BIRTHDAY: 
CfiRfi!: 

HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY CARA! 
LOVE, MOM, 
DAD, 
KATHLEEN, 
AND 
ANNE 


taRE-CHARGE 
~RE-FOCUS 
-and 
~TAKEOFF! 
After you get the picture get to the program... 
... with Humorist, Educational Consultant, & "Natural High • Expert, 

George Obermeier 
Date: Tuesday, April 23 Time: 7:30pm Location: North Lounge Regina Hall -SMC This Event is Sponsored By: Saint Mary's College Wellness Program Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, University of Notre Dame Saint Mary's Student Government 




CROSSWORD 
The Observer page 15 
ACROSS 22 Uzbek or 4& Rock group that Tadzhik: Abbr. included J. 
1 Hollywood and Osborne
23 Infant or tact 'lacmnent Services Confenmce Hoom. Sponsored by Career ender 47 South African truckle 
5 Surface for leader:
nd Placnment Services. 
24 Take down-­
Gretzky 
1862·1919
4 p.m. AnTostal Week activity: "Heal Long Ice Cream or two
8 Disposition 48 Trireme
·undae," South Quad. Sponsored by University Food Services. 
25 Machinist's pin 
12 Prototypical film propellant
7 p.m. Film: "Chushingura," Annenbnrg Auditorium, Snite 
28 Portable bed 49 Rita's Khan 
13 With no holds barred 29 Resume reader 50 Put in the
usnum. 
7 p.m. Film and discussion: "Consequences of War in the 
minutes
16 "There lived 31 Hangs in there
'ulf." Center for Social Concerns. Part of the Analyzing the 
51 Dumbfounded--in days of 
ar: Tunsday Night Video Snrins. Sponsored by Gulf Crisis 33 On the carpet 
yore": 55 "Once ~pon
eticm Group. 3&Actress
Thackeray 
Strasberg 
56 Where things 17 Bordering 37 Strong sometimes go18 Swing, for one
ECTURES wrapping paper 57 Bit of evidence 
19 Suffix with 38 Male gypsy 58 Actress Kate of Brooklyn
Tuesday "Atlantic City" 
39 Apostatize
20 A high old time 59 Catch a 
41 Surfeit
4:30 p.m. Seminar: "Bioremndiation and Natural Processes 21 Writers monarch 
Morrison and 45 Comedian &o Snead's needs 
sed During the Alaska Spill Clean Up," Jan Bock, Exxon 
Bambara Olsen
esearch and Engineering Company. Hoom 283, Galvin Life ~ience Auditorium. Sponsored by biological sciences and DOWN mter for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Chess piece 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Bangladesh Women Hunger for More," 
2 A versatile May 
ranees Bernard O'Connor. winner of the 1991 YWCA 
3Von
rnsident's Award for Excellence. IIesburgh Library 
Richthofen's 14 Baryshnikov 34 Count noses 44 Like some
uditorium. 
encounters leap 35 Guard dog's pitchers
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Natural llighs," George Obermeier, 
47 Beauty's
4 Dele deleters 15 Civet's cousin comment 
morist on issues for prevention of substance abuse, natural admirer
5 Gilbertian 22 Rubbed gently 38 High perch 
ghs and developing humor and creativity, Angela Athletic 49 Mellow, as wine
princess 25 Notched. as a 40 He wrote 52 Alphabet run
cility, Saint Mary's College. Part of the Alcohol Education 
& High pass battlement "Sophie's 53 Actress Julie 
,ries. Sponsored by Wellness Student Organization, SMC Choice"
7 I specialist 2& Brit. lexicon from Norway 
udent Government, and University of Notre Dame Office of 42 Finery
a"Le-," 27 Highest part 54 It ends end of cohol and Drug Education. Massenet opera 43 Subjects Oct.
30 "If--a 9 Part ofT.G.I.F. Hammer" 
~i":+:-t::+.-;t-;-+.:;-t;:;-t 1 o Architects· 32 --dog (acts 
Answers to any three clues in this products 
the swell) puzzle are available by touch-tone =+=+:+.-:......,. 11 Lumpy 33 One who phone: 1-900·420-5656 (75¢ each ___.___..__.__.-12 Ziti or vermicelli quarantines minute).
Notre Dame 
Oven Broiled Chicken Beef and Bean Burrito Fresh Vegetable Pasta Deli Bar 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Make Your Own Burrito Bar Macaroni & Cheese Baked Whitefish 
BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES THE fAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 



GOLF TOURNAMENT REAL LONG SUNDAE 4PM SOUTH QUAD
GOLFCOURSE STARTS 10 AM BURKE MEMORIAL 
•SPONSORED BY UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
AIR BAND/LIPSYNC 8PM TIIEODORE'S 
--------------~-~­
Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, April 23, 1991 
Ismail's decision to join Argos made easier by Pats 
'Cultural diversity' attractive 
(AP}-The Rocket's road to Canada was paved with dollar signs, but race and respect also played a part in Raghib Ismail's decision to nix the NFL and join the CFL's Toronto Argonauts. 
After the New England Patriots and Dallas Cowboys failed to meet his contract demands before the NFL draft, Ismail signed with the Argonauts for a potential $26.2 million-the biggest deal in pro football history. 
But money wasn't the only reason he chose the CF):. over the NFL. 
During negotiations with the Patriots, Ismail was offended by what he believed was a racist remark by team executive Joe Mendes. Ismail's agent, Ed Abram, also said the Patriots tried to "browbeat" the Notre Dame wide receiver-kick returner by insisting he wasn't an impact player and didn't deserve the kind of huge contract normally reserved for star quarterbacks. 
"They repeated that over and over again," Abram said Monday. "They never acted like they really wanted the Rocket." 
What made matters worse was a comment by Joe Mendes, the Patriots' director of player operations. During preliminary contract talks, Mendes suggested that Ismail lower his asking price. When Ismail looked away from him, Mendes reportedly snapped, "You have the attention span of Tim Worley." 
Worley, a running back for the Pittsburgh Steelers, and Ismail are black. Abram wasn't present during the meeting, but said Ismail later told him about Mendes' remark. "He found it quite insulting," see TORONTO/page 12 Abram said. "He was really 

Penn Relays changes format to accomodate pro Rocket 
PHILADELPHIA (AP} -The impact of Raghib "Rocket" Ismail signing a reported $26.2 million contract to play football in Canada tested the ingenuity of Penn Relays officials. 
Ismail, the Notre Dame All-American wide receiver and kick returner, still is scheduled to run Saturday in the Penn Relays but under a different scenario. 
Originally, Ismail, the IC4A indoor 55-meter champion this year, was to run at Penn in an Olympic Development 100-meter dash that included such standout sprinters as Andre Cason, world indoor champion this year, and Raymond Stewart of Jamaica, No. 1 outdoors two years ago. 
But Olympic Development events are governed by the International Amateur Athletic Federation, and IAAF rules prohibit professional athletes from competing in international or domestic events. That could have put Ismail out of the Penn event. 
But Penn officials weren't going to let the IAAF regulation cost them "The Rocket," whose appearance figures to boost attendance substantially. 
Dr. Timothy Baker, Penn Relays director, and his staff simply added another 100-meter section, featuring only college runners. Under NCAA rules, Ismail is eligible to compete. Cason, Stewart and three other runners who come under the lAAF regulation will run in their own section. 
The field in which Ismail will run includes Augustine ~lo.bia, a Washingto.n .state see ROCKET/ a e 14 
Jumor who beat Ismail m the P g 
Irish baseball puts win streak on the line vs. Indiana 
By RICH SZABO 
.. 
Sports Writer 
The 20th-ranked Irish base­ball team returns to action tonight with a 7 p.m. matchup at Coveleski Stadium against Big Ten power Indiana University. Going into tonight's non-conference game against Indiana, the Notre Dame base­ball team has a lot of positives on their side. 
The Irish (26-12} are riding a twelve-game winning streak, a streak which has seen dominant pitching performances, as the Irish rotation has held six of its last seven opponents to two runs or less. 
On Sunday, Irish coach Pat Murphy became the second winningest coach in Notre Dame history as the Irish swept a doubleheader from Butler. The wins, Murphy's 158th and 159th, pushed him past Larry Gallo into second place. In his fourth season, Murphy overtook Gallo, who coached from 1981­1987. Jake Kline is the winningest coach in ND history, chalking up 558 victories. 
This week also marked the return of the Irish to the na­tional rankings. The Irish, who were ranked 15th in the pre­season, climbed back up to 20th in the Collegiate Baseball!ESPN poll. 
"Indiana is 30-13 right now," said Murphy, "and they are al­ways tough. They have domi­nated Notre Dame until re-
Ten chosen in NFL draft; Lyght picked 5th overall 
By DAVE DIETEMAN and RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writers 
Success breeds success. 
At least, that's what the Los Angeles Rams hope is the case with cornerback Todd Lyght, one of 10 seniors picked from the 1990 Notre Dame football team in this weekend's NFL draft. 
Judging from the number of Irish players drafted, NFL gen­eral managers and coaches must have been impressed by the achievements of Notre Dame's class of 1991-one na­tional championship (1988), a runner-up finish (1989), four major bowl appearances and an overall record of 40-8. 
In addition, the successful transitions of Tim Grunhard (Kansas City), Pat Terrell and Frank Starns (LA Rams) and Jeff Aim (Houston) from college to pro ball make it seem less risky for an NFL team to take a chance on a Notre Dame player. 
Lyght was followed on day one by running back Ricky Watters (49ers, 2nd round), de­fensive tackle Chris Zorich (Bears, 2nd), offensive lineman Bob Dahl (Bengals, 3rd), and wide receiver Raghib Ismail (Raiders, 4th). 
The second day of drafting action saw offensive lineman Tim Ryan (Buccaneers, 5th), linebacker Andre Jones (Steelers, 7th), linebacker Scott Kowalkowski (Eagles, 8th), linebacker Michael Stonebreaker (Bears, 9th) and center Mike Heldt (Chargers, lOth) get their calls. 
Lyght, the highest-picked Irish player, was the fifth choice overall in the draft. The choice of Lyght surprised numerous draft gurus, who had predicted the talented defensive specialist from Flint, Mich., would go to the Cleveland Browns in the second pick overall. Lyght will join fellow Notre Dame grads Frank Starns and Pat Terrell on the Rams squad. 
"We thought Lyght was one of the best players in the draft.. .in our scheme, you have to be smart, one, and tough and aggressive, two," remarked Los Angeles defensive coordinator Jeff Fisher, quoted after Lyght's selection Sunday. "Lyght is both of those." 
Watters saw his dreams be­come reality when the San 
see DRAFT/page 14 
cently, and it would be nice for us to continue our winning ways against them. We know we can beat them, but it's just a matter of going out and execut­ing." 
The Irish have had some ex­cellent individual performances lately. Captain Joe Binkiewicz has been on fire, hitting a torrid 25-for-46 in his last 14 games. Greg Layson has emerged as a solid leadoff hitter for the Irish, and the pitching staff has been overpowering during the winning streak. 
David Sinnes is expected to start against the Hoosiers. Sinnes is 2-1 on the season, with a 5.20 ERA, but has faced some of the top teams in the country and recorded a huge 
win over then third-ranked Texas. 
"David is throwing the ball a lot better than he threw last year. He has faced Stanford, Texas, Michigan, and UCLA among others, and though the statistics may not show it, he is pitching much better than last year," said Murphy. 
During a 60-game season, there are bound to be some in­juries, and the Irish have not escaped unscathed. 
"Eric Danapilis missed a couple games last week," said Murphy, "and he is a walking first-aid unit. Most of the guys have some little injuries. You go through a 60-game baseball season with nagging injuries, nothing that is going to keep anyone out of the lineup, but I don't think that anybody is at full strength after playing this grueling a schedule." 
The Irish have won 13 of the last 14 games, and after three non-conference games, go back to the grind of the Midwest Collegiate Conference. The Irish are currently 9-2 in the MCC, trailing Detroit, which tops the conference with a 12-2 mark. 
Said Irish shortstop Craig Counsell, "We look forward to going against the best teams in the country. We don't take the MCC games lightly, because ev­eryone is gunning for us. If we don't concentrate and play well, we're going to get beaten, so we don't let up in the MCC." 
Todd Tim LYGHT RYAN
1 5
~




CB 6'1" 184 
2 
Ricky WATTERS 
TB 6'2" 199 
2 
Chris ZORICH 
NG 6'1" 266 
3 
Bob DAHL 
T 6'5" 261 
4 
Raghib ISMAIL WR 5'10" 175 
G 6'4" 266 
7 
Andre JONES 
OLB 6'4" 225 
8 
Scott KOWALKOWSKI 
OLB 6'2" 230 
9 
Michael STONEBREAKER 
ILB 6'1" 228 
10 
Mike 
HELDT 
c 6'4" 267 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

