
~~Jij~t .g.~. 
IU2•1992 
IISQUICENUNNIAL 

Saint Ma~:S Colleg~

NOTRE DAME •INDIANA 
VOL. XX IV NO. 34 THURSDAV , OCTOBER 10, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND faculty signs letter to defend homosexuals 
By PAUL PEARSON tributing so many copies. "I was "Lesbian and gay members of the ideas of the letter. ment "supported it wholeheart­
Assistant News Editor hoping to include the Saint the community deserve to live The positive response to the edly," she said. Mary's faculty, but it was just without fear," he said. letter represents "a sign of ma­The letter was simply "a too mueh to manage." This problem is not a matter turity that people are willing to statement of personal belinfs,"
OvPr I SO mPmbPrs of the 
Some copies of the letter were of demanding action from the speak," said Jordan. Rosenberg said. 
Notn~ l>anw faculty signed a sent to members of the ND administration, but changing The letter sent to the ND fac­Ghilarducci said she signed1.-tter to lw published in tomor­administration, but none of people's attitudes, according to ulty was signed by Jordan and the letter because she saw arow's OhsPrvPr dPfending the them were returned, Jordan Jordan. "Notre Dame is not al­five other members of the fac­close connection between therights of homosnxual members 
said. ways a pleasant place for gay ulty and staff: Susan Youens. way homosexuals are treated inof tlw communily, aeeording to students." professor of music; Charles a society and the way womenproft~ssor Mark .Jordan. 
The letter says in part that The letter, Jordan said, re­Rosenberg, chairman of the art. are treated. "When you set up aOver 700 h~tters wen~ sent by homosexual members of the ceived wide-spread response department; Sophia Jordan, as­hierarchy of genders, gfllwrally.Jordan to tlw Nl> faculty last community "should not have to from "every unit of the faculty," sistant librarian; Teresa Ghi­women and homosexuals will
week. and ovPr I SO of them 
fear harassment. the imposi­including some of the depart­larducci, associate professor of be near the bottom," she said.
W«'rn signed and returned. 
tions of self-hatred, infringe­ment chairs. economics; and Father Patrick According to Gall"ney, the let­
This rPsponse is 
ments of intellectual liberty, the Jordan said that he did not Gaffney, associate professor of ter was about "legal and civil
"encouraging," said Jordan, 
loss of employment, physical receive any "strong negative" anthropology. rights," not morals.
associate proft~ssor in the Me­
violence, or sexual abuse." responses to the letter. Some Youens said that she had wit­"Homosexuals shouldn't bedinval Institute. 
Jordan said that several inci­faculty members did tell him nessed several cases of discrim­subjected to discrimination," heNo eopins of the letter were 
dents of harassment and dis­that they wouldn't sign it be­ination based on sexual prefer­said.
snnl to the Saint Mary's faculty, crimination against members of cause they felt it was not the ence first-hand, which con­Gaffney said he was glad hehut .Jordan said that this was the community in the past proper forum to address these vinced her to sign the letter. signed the letter. "I think it's adw• only to tlw dilliculty of dis-inspired him to write the letter. issues, but no one objected to Members of the music depart-valuable thing to do." 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 
Something other than football 
(left to right) Juniors Jason Kies and Justin Hartings enjoy Tuesday's summer-like weather as they show off some of their talents by juggling some pins. 
Future Soviet Democracy is unlikely for the future 
By KATE KECKLER has been destroyed, and glas­
News Writer nost has nncouragnd individual 
republics to express thnir own 

Democracy in the Sbvint nationalism, O'Bri.-n said. Union is an unlikely prospect, "In introducing glasnost Gor­according to former United Na­bachev hoped to lind out what tions ambassador Conor Cruise the ptHlpln of tlw Soviet Union O'Brien. wanted. What lw has disl'ov­
Until the Soviet Union's future ered is that the peopiP of tlw becomes more certain, it would Soviet Union want to be rid of be rash for the Bush the Soviet ·Union." administration to initiate huge As the newly indnptmdent re­reductions in arms, O'Brien publics fight to establish them­said. "Amid these uncertainties, selves, they are threatPnPd by the West would do well not to disintegration. he said. "The drop its guard, to see what is seeds of civil war are not only aetually happening." there, but sprouting. And civil 
A former Irish ambassador to war is not conducive to democ­the United Nations, O'Brien racy." serves as Pro Chancellor of the O'Brien rnpnatedly exprnssnd 
University of Dublin and re­his concnrn that the Western 
mains active in politics. He politicians and nwdia an~ un­spoke yesterday at Notre Dame derestimating tlw nxtent of the on "Nationalism, Democracy. changes in the Soviet Union. and the Disintigration of the "Many of us s1wm to assume 
Soviet Union." that every thing is all right.. Yet 
Under Mikhail Gorbachev, the to conclude that democracy is system of terror previously holding the collective together see Soviet I page 4 
Funding for Weekend Wheels is closely examined 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
Stud.-nt Affairs Iwver consid­
•~red a request to fund Weekt~IHI WhnPls, the bus service that transports studPnts back to campus from otT-campus bars and Campus ViPw Apartments, arrording to Bill Kirk, Assistant Viet!-l'rt~sidPnt for Hesidnnt l.ifn. 
" I ha v P twv e r hP tnl approarlwd with tlw funding rPquPst," Kirk said. "IIPC made tlw rt'<fLH'st rireuitously through Busitwss AfTairs." 
This PXplains Kirk's mistaktHI idna that WnPkend WhPPis transports studf'nts to tlw bars. In faet, they aro merely supposPd to n~turn students to campus, hn said. Kirk made this statnnwnt at a studnnt government forum last Tuesday when hn said that Student Af­fairs could noi fund trans­portation to drinking estab­lishnwnts. 
"I was not prepared to talk about Weekend Wheels at that time," said Kirk. "I hadn't re­ally considered tho request for funds." 
This is not to say that if the Hall Presidents Council (IIPC) makes a direct requnst that Student Affairs will agref. to fund the program, he added. Tlwrn am many factors to con­sider. h~~ said. 
"I think that this is a great studnnt initiatnd idea," Kirk said. "I am not so sure that it is such ~t gn;,at University spon­sored Idea. 
III'C eo-chairpnrsons Charlie James and Kevin Hoxas spoke with .Jamns Lyphout, Associate Vice-President for Business Administration, about tlw pos­sibility of the Univnrsity helping to pay the cost of Weekend Wheels. Lyphout contacted Student AITairs, and they turned down thH n~quest, aecording to James. 
"We do not have funds in this year's budget for Weekend Wheels," Kirk said. However, there are a certain amount of funds set aside for unplanned expenses every year, he said. 
Kirk suggested that HPC has enough revenues from the sale of The Shirt to fund the pro­gram themselves. However, HPC had planned to distribute these extra revenues between the dorms, according to Ted Stumpf, IIPC executive co-Co­ordinator. 
"It is just not the case that the University is more concerned with the perception that they are providing rides for drinkers than they are for safety," Kirk said. "But just because a danger exists. doesn't mean that the University has to provide protection." 
Students need to take the ini­tiative, he said. They need to be responsible for themselves and take taxis, or choose not to drink and drive or not to fre­quent dangerous areas of town, he added. 
"I do see. their point in not funding Weekend Wheels be­cause that might be seen as giving approval to student­drinking," Stumpf said. "I just thought that they would be more concerned with the safety issue this year." 
Students are going to go to the bars regardless of Weekend Wheels, added Stumpf . IIPC was very worried about their safety due to thl~ rise in crime off campus as well as with the possibility of drinking and· driving, he explained. 
"I live in the real world too, but students have to take an af­firmative role in this," said Kirk. "Safety is a concern of the University, but we don't want to be seen as a provider of transportation for people who go to the bars." 
Neighborhood groups are not thrilled with the University about the bussing, Kirk said. They, too, are under the mis­pereeptioh that students are transported to the bars as well as back to campus, he said. 
"They see it as the University dumping .students off in their neighborhoods to drink and then pi eking them up later," he said. As long as Weekend Wheels is a student initiative. the University can respond to this complaint by saying that the bussing is a student-run ef­fort that the administration does not interfern with, he said. 
Bussing may not be the best way for the UnivPrsity to ad­dress the safety issue. said Kirk. llowever. IIPC is investing a substantial portion of its budgt~t because they think that tlw bus will help. according to Kevin Hoxas. IIPC co-chairperson. 
IIPC decided to use $4200, its entire yearly budgPtary allot­ment for Weekend Wlwels, to cover first semester expPnses only. Costs have risen since last year due to the fact that Indiana law makes it impossible to use school bus eompanies anymore. 
"We've decided to do it." Hoxas said. "It's underway and now we just hope that people will use it." 
If the students use the bus, HPC will continue the service next semester. They set aside $4.500 of profits from The Shirt, money which was sup­posed to have gone towards dorm improvements, to pay the costs next semester. 

Thursday, October 10, 1991 
PIIMCAIT: 
Partly sunny 
skies and cooler 
temperatures 
today with a high 
in the 70s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Egotistical attitudes overwhelm ND 
Every year some ill­informed female from Saint Mary's complains about paying higher prices for football tickets, and talks about how SMC is unjustly overshadowed by Notre Dame; it just 


The Observer 

makes her and her school A.Garr Schwa~ 
look bad. And ever since Sports PhotoEdltor then, things have been completely blown out o proportion. I am tired of hearing ND and SMC students bash on each other. Stop it! 
What disappoints me most is the ND students' reactions. Why was the letter acknowledged as representative of the SMC student body? Why was SMC attacked instead of the individual who wrote the letter? Steve Hurst, from Indiana, could probably answer that question better than I could. 
Everything stems from that wonderful pride that envelops this campus. The egotistical pride that breeds on this campus. Mr. Hurst, before getting all involved in his emotional problems, hinted at the difference between egoism and egotism. This point is debatable, so I will explain my general definitions. Both are derived from confidence and satisfaction in oneself. Egoism is belief in oneself regardless o what anyone may think. Whereas egotists constantly need the approval of others, and many times downgrade others to make themselves appear as better than they really are. 
The egotist's own self-image is built up by what others think, not by his own desire to please himself. I am not saying that everyone at ND is an egotist, but look at the amount and types of responses that were made against a whole community of women. Listen to what is said about state schools. Read how many times the word pride came up in the responses to Steve Hurst's letter. Head the article in a recent GQ magazine(a magazine I do not approve oD about how within 90 seconds of first meeting an ND person, he will mention that he is from Notre Dame. Go out in the damn parking lot, and see how many cars have ND stickers or license plates. Then look again and see how many cars have both. 
Some pride is good, and everyone from time to time succumbs to being affected by what other people think. This university, though, is a huge egotistical monster. Are you that insecure and narrow-minded, that you cannot look at yourse introspectively-and see what your faults and weaknesses may be? Does egotistical pride shine so brightly on the Dome, that everyone closes their eyes? 
The administration loves this egotistical pride by association. How else could it get such a conservatively apathetic student body. People are so proud of their ND, that they have problems getting mad when the administration oversteps its bounds. Thus, enabling the administration to continue to tighten control over students, and to keep you from making your own responsible decisions. 
Remember, Benders hate you! The police despise you! ND security does not like you either, and the administration does not give a damn! The only thing you have is to look out for yourself, and bind together with other students. That includes compatibility between ND and SMC students. We have so many enemies as it is, why fight each other? 
Today's Staff News Business 
Lauren Aquino Colleen Gannon Ann Marie Hartman Colette LaForce Sports Production 
Rich Kurz Cheryl Moser Anthony King Kathy Fong Accent Graphics 
Jahnelle Harrigan Ann-Marie Conrado Cheryl Moser Scoreboard Laurie Sessa Rich Szabo 
Viewpoint Ad Design 
Rich Riley Alissa Murphy Kathy Benz Molly Belden JP Thole 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Thomas droos in ABC's opinion poll 
•NEW YORK-Public support for Clarence Thomas' nomination to the Supreme Court dropped from 63 per­cent three weeks ago to SO percent after the Senate de­layed its confirmation vote, an ABC News-Washington Post poll found. The vote on Tuesday was put off for a week to investigate allegations he sexually harassed a former assistant. In the poll conducted Tuesday night, there was little difference in response between men and women. However, the public was split on the Seriate postponement, with SO percent in favor of the delay, 39 percent opposed and the rest unsure. 
Conflict forces lawfirm to withdraw 
•SALT LAKE CITY -A law firm hired to defend Utah's anti-abortion law agreed to withdraw from the case Wednesday after the state attorney general ex­pressed concerns about its work for an abortion clinic. Attorney General Paul Van Dam said it was "in the best interests of the state of Utah to select new counsel in the case." He cited a potential conflict of interest. An ACLU motion filed Tuesday said the anti-abortion lawyers and attorney general's office may have had ac­cess to sensitive information because Jones Waldo lawyers had represented the Utah Women's Clinic on other matters. 
OF INTEREST 
•Career 
Day for the College of Arts and Letter is being held today from 12 Noon-4 p.m. in the lower level of the CCE. Representatives from 30 career areas are in atten­dance to answer any questions that sophomores, juniors or seniors may have. 

•st. 
Edward's Hall Players will have an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the 1st floor lounge of St. Ed's. 

•seniors 
are invited to attend a presentation for sales opportunities with Revlon to be held at Saint Mary's Col­lege, Haggar Room 303 at 7 p.m. 


•or. George Szabo, curatoe emeritus of The Lehman Collection, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, will speak on "The History of the Robert Lehman Collection" 
MARKET UPDATE 

City 
Athens Atlanta Be~ in Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft. Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miam Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San Fran cisco Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C 
H L 77 61 77 52 66 50 70 52 
64 37 
83 55 78 46 62 39 90 73 84 55 65 41 63 52 92 67 
73 54 
88 74 57 50 82 58 71 53 63 45 72 52 63 55 69 43 84 56 71 51 73 56 66 61 75 56 
Roseanne's daughter molested also 
•LOS ANGELES-Roseanne Arnold told a national talk show audience that her father molested her daughter during the comedian's wedding last year. The star of the ABC hit series "Roseanne" also said her sister was attacked by her father a decade ago. Miss Arnold got a hug from alleged incest victims in the audience following Tuesday's one-hour taping of the "Sally Jessy Raphael" talk show at CBS Television City. The nationally syndicated show is scheduled to be broadcast Thursday. 
INDIANA Police believe crack is threat 
•BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Police in communities already battling gang crime are urging Monroe County authorities to put together an anti-gang plan now, at the first sign of gang activity. Authorities in both Fort Wayne and Anderson said they were caught unpre­pared by gangs and now face an enemy that is dug in. "They said Bloomington is in the same situation Anderson was two years ago. (They) told us they simply waited too long," said Capt. William Parker, head of Bloomington's detective squad. 
at 4:1S p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
•The 
Connells will perform tonight at Theodore's with the Seven Simons. ND/SMC ID's required. Doors open at 8:30p.m. 

•Best 
Buddies, Logan and L'Arche will host a hospi­tality luncheon by the Center for Social Concerns from 


11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. on Friday. Chilean food will be served. 
•ND/SMC Right To Life members and others interested in a peaceful picket of the South Bend Women's Pavillion on Friday, Oct. 11, can meet at the library circle at 9 a.m. Anyone with a car is encouraged to drive. Call Katrina at 283-2703 if you have any questions. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1913: the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans commingled in the Panama Canal after U.S. engineers blew up the Gamboa Dam. 

• 
In 1938: Germany completed its annexation of Czechoslovakia's Sudetenland. 

• 
In 1973: Vice President Spiro Agnew, accused of accepting bribes, pleaded no contest to one count of federal income tax evasion, and resigned his office. 


• In 1985: U.S. fighter jets forced an Egyptian plane 
carrying the hijackers ot the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro to land in Italy, where the gunmen were taken into custody. 

page 3 The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1991 



Run-off elections are determined 
By ANDY RUNKLE 
News Writer 
Hun-ofT tdnrtions dntt>rminnd II rnprnsentativt)S of tht) 1991­'J2 Fn~shnwn Advisory Commit­lPP ynstnrday, said Travis HPindl. Pll'rtions c~oordinator. 
Candidatn::; nlnrtnd to reprn­snnt thnir rnsidenen halls arn Suzannn Fodor. Lewis; Kevin MeAward. Fisher; Elizabeth I fanion. Knott; .Julia llohbnrger, Lyons; Hyan Grabow. Knnnan; .Iorge Hodrigunz, Stanford; Samantha Spencnr, Singfried; Amy Visnosky, Howard; David Bozanirh, Zahrn; Snan McHugh, Flanrwr. and Amy Connolly, Brnen-Phillips. 
In these 11 halls, no candi­datt~ received a 50 pnrcnnt ma­jority in Monday's gnneral elec­tion. Thn run-offs occurred be­tween the two candidates who received the most votes in the general election. 
The gmwral elections Monday detnnninnd two committee rep­resentatives, Marie llauck of Farley and Maria Capua of Walsh. The representatives from Morrissey, Sorin, and Carroll halls are to be an­nounced. 
The run-offs are the final stage of a new elections proce­dure adopted for the Freshmen Advisory Committee this year. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
On your mark .... 
Runners take their places at the starting lines in front of the Angela Athletic Facility as they prepare to race in its Saint Mary's College's Oktoberfest Run. 


Harsh penalties are pushed against sex harassers 

NEW YOHK (API -Clarence and earlier when both worked Heginald Welch, a spokesman commission always was that immediately locate a copy. Thomas pushed for harsh at tlw Education Department. who has been with the EEOC you don't go to Clarence "I remembpr something com­pnnaltins against subordinates Thomas, a federal appellate since 1974, said that in one Thomas with dirty hands," ing out and rrutking it very dear guilty of the sort of sexual ha­judge, has denied the accusa­such instance the early 1980s Hozzi said. "He's one man I sexual harassment would not rassnwnt aiiPgations now be­tions. Thomas urged that a high-level knew personally would never be toleratPd in the workplace," siPging him, govnrnment offi­Honnie Blumenthal, a 22-year official bP terminated instead of cheat or lie." Hozzi said. "It was very dearly cials who oncP workPCJ under veteran of the EEOC and the suspflnded or demoted, as Nancy Kreiter. research di­communicatPd that he was very him said Wndnnsday. acting director of its office of originally suggested. rector at Women Employed, a opposed -he felt it was one of 
Tlwy said thn Supnmw Court eommunieations and legislative Dolores Hozzi, the EEOC's di­Chicago-based group advocat­the worst kinds of insults." nominen's pt~rf'orrnance as affairs. said Thomas routinely rector of federal operations and ing women's rights in the .. hairman of the Equal Em­disciplirwd subordinates ac­a 17-year veteran, told of workplace, said she knew of no ploynwnt Opportunity Commis­cused of sexual harassment. another instance in which she written internal EEOC guidP­sion shows lw is not the kind of Blumenthal. who spoke at a urged Thomas to be lenient Iines indicating that Thomas pPrson who would ('ommit sex­lwman rPsourcPs conference, with an employee whom she be­had a strict policy on sexual 
Read 
ual harassnwnt. also said she'd never seen lieved was innocent of sexual harassment. On TuPsday. tlw SPIHttP dP­Thomas display the behavior harassment. Hozzi said Thomas She said that organizations 
John O'Brien's 
layPd a votP on Thomas' con­deseribnd by Hill. declined her request and de­and businesses that have pro­fir:mation to furtlwr investigatP Slw didn't elaborate on spe­moted the worker. gressive policies typically dis­
column every
an allngation by a fornwr cil"ic instances wlwn Thomas Hozzi said Thomas dealt with seminate written guidelines to Thomas aidP, law professor disciplined those accused of it harshly because he believed employees. 
third Wednesday 
Anita llill, that lw sPxually ha­spxual harassment, hut other sexual harassment was "such a Rozzi said Thomas had dis­rassl'() lwr a dPradP ago wlwn vetPran EEOC officials con­egregious crime." tributed. a written statement lw was chairman of the EEOC taett)d latt)r gave more details. "The feeling around the several years ago, but she 
in Accent. 
couldn't remember its contents. Welch. the EEOC spokesman, said he also recalled such a memo, but couldn't 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 

P@'SY 0 Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square
51400 31 North (21gi\J 277•1291 South IN 46637 ,.._Aaaw••• Z4 lara. 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMB 
8:00PM I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
MORRIS CIVIC A(JDITORI 
Students can now obtain about $50,000.00 within one years time towards college costs, and any other expenses. 
ON SALE TOMORROW 
This money is available from bank, and department store
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC 
credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student 
AUDITORIOM BOX OFFICE AND ALL THE 
loans you might have, or are applying for. 
USUAL MORRIS CIVIC CENTER TICKET Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance 
LOCATIONS 

your college education. 
~~~~,~~~~~~ww~ww~~ 
C
100% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED,
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH! 
~:!;:;~~====~====~=:::::::::::::~::::~::~~::.::s.~~~~~~mt~:~::::.mm~.m·m=m.·m·~'m'~m·lWI.'Ii~WlWi.'li&fP
219/284-9190 

Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISHING CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., U02 Wilmington, DE 19803-3700 
Name _____ ---------------Admess ___________________ 
City ________State ____Zip ____ 
Allow 3-4 weeks delivCI)'. "Amount of funds may vary allg.htly for each lndlvldual 
The Observer 

Thursday, October 10, 1991 page 4 
SAB meeting focuses on issues of 
Williams is optimistic 
By LAURIE GILBERT non-racial democratic
alcohol awareness and self-defense 
By KELLY JENNINGS 
News Writer 

A self"defense session and campaign for responsible drinking will highlight Saint Mary's involvement in National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness week Oct. 14-18, the Student Activities Board (SAB) an­nounced last night. 
The week will include two self-defense sessions called "Hands Off ... I'm Special," a campus-wide study break offer­ing alcohol related information and the distribution of a na­tional responsible drinkers con­tract. 
Saint Mary's will also partici­pate in the "Tie One On" cam­of Student Affairs, the Dean of paign during National Students, and the Director of Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Residence Life. week. With the cooperation of If the proposed dance is ap­local bars, students who act as proved, McGowan will form a a designated driver will receive dance committee consisting of a red bracelet for the week. representatives of the SAB, the When the designated driver Residence Hall Association, off­shows the bracelet in the bars, campus students, and members he or she will receive free soft of each of the classes. drinks for the night. "So far, the response has been 

The SAB also continued dis­great," she added. cussion of a proposed all-school dance. The plan has already Other upcoming events at been approved by the Board of Saint Mary's include Halloween Governance, said Meg grams being sold this week for McGowan, vice president of students who are abroad, a Student Affairs. tailgater sponsored by the 
The proposal must now be Wellness Committee on presented to and approved by Saturday, October 12. and the members of the school adminis­Fall Fest celebration week from tration, including the Director October 28-November 1. 
Jury rejects claims by three men who sued their millionaire uncle 
HOUSTON (AP) -A jury Wednesday rejected claims by three men who sued their mil­lionaire uncle to gain control of the high society family's for­tune. 
The county probate court jury deliberated nearly five hours before delivering its verdict in the bitter family feud. The case resembling a soap-opera story­line had gone to the jury earlier Wednesday after emotional pleas, chilly courtroom disdain and a few tears. 
The feud began after Robert Sakowitz took control of the family's upscale clothing store following the 1981 death of his multimillionaire father, Bernard Sakowitz. Relatives claimed Sakowitz then mismanaged the business to line his own pockets, costing them a fair share of the estate. 
Sakowitz, whom his father named sole executor of his will, 

Soviet 
continued from page 1 
safe after one coup is wishful thinking," he said. 
Even during this period of change, O'Brien noted that the Soviet Union remains a nuclear superpower. "We cannot know what kind of people will be in countered that he only took Wyatt, whose portion of the money out of the business that estate is in a trust, contended he had put in earlier. Sakowitz Sakowitz used the estate to Inc. failed in 1990. "engage in transactions which 
The lawsuit was filed by three benefited himself to the detri­nephews, led by Douglas Wyatt, ment of the shareholders and 
34. In 1986, Sakowitz, 52, set­creditors" of Sakowitz Inc. tled a similar lawsuit, brought The 1986 lawsuit split the by Wyatt's father, out of court. family, with Sakowitz's mother, 
Wyatt and his two brothers Ann, siding with him. She and sought about $7.5 million they Sakowitz have ceased speaking said their uncle took from the to his sister, Lynn Sakowitz company. They also sought a Wyatt, over the lawsuit by her penalty for allegedly breaching husband, Oscar Wyatt. the family trust. Those divisions were clear 
But the jury rejected all their Wednesday. During two hours claims and said Sakowitz of intense closing arguments, wasn't responsible for the loss the Wyatts filled a bench in the of the family's fortune. front row of the tiny county 
"I feel absolutely great," probate court, while the Sakowitz said moments after Sakowitzes crowded with their the verdict. "It has been ex­attorneys at a table facing the tremely draining ... over the jury. They never looked at one last six years. It's so good to another. have ... the family name exon­erated-to have my name ex­

onerated." 
News Writer 
After parti-cipating in the three-day conference on investment in a post-Apartheid state, Father Oliver Williams is optimistic about the economic and social future of South Africa. 
Members of the African National Conference (ANC) also share his optimism and are ready to "look forward" toward investment. "The long term future for investment in South Africa is very. very good. South Africa could be the engine that drives the economy of the entire continent," said Williams in a lecture last night. 
The Notre Dame sponsored conference, "The ANC and New Investment in• South Africa," allowed South African leaders to meet with over 120 American business executives to discuss the possibility of a first-ever investment policy for a post-Apartheid South Africa. Williams, associate Provost of the University, co-chaired the conference. 
Although optimistic about investing in South Africa, American businesses have concerns about issues like the possibility of nationalization and the question of future political stability, he said. 
The process of changing to a 
government may be finished within a year, according to Thabo Mbeki. director of international affairs for the ANC. 
When Williams returns to South Africa in March, he said he and Mbeki "will toast then to the relieving of all sanctions." 
Social situations in South Africa have improved over the past years as well, according to Williams. Most white South Africans support the change to a post-Apartheid government, he said. 
Either "they support it in principal or they feel that it's not worth fighting, although a small minority, similar to our 'rednecks' or Ku Klux Klan, continue to oppose the move­ment toward greater racial equality." 
Although many affirmative action measures have been taken, he cited the 30-40 percent unemployment rate as the most pressing problem facing South Africa now. And although cities such as Johannesburg and Capetown are becoming well integrated by the growing black middle­class, the majority of South Africans in rural areas are still illiterate and without electricity. 
Williams lecture was part of the Flanner Hall lecture series. 

Please recycle. Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. 
Thank you. 


· control of those weapons, one, five, or 10 years from now. We may not be dealing with the nice Mr. Gorbachev." O'Brien's lecture at the Hes­burgh Center for International Studies was sponsored by the department of history, the de­partment of government and international studies, the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies and the Institute for International Peace 
WILL BE TAKEN IN THE STADIUM 
Studies. 
OCTOBER 13 @ 12:00 NOON 
FOLLOWING THE PICTURE, 
THERE WILL BE FREE FOOD AT 
ALUMNI -SENIOR CLUB 


-~-----~----­
The Observer 

page 5 Thursday, October 10, 1991 


SMC students learn more about security awareness 
By JEANNE DE VITA tempted rape and at least 90 The most vivid way for a prevention is being aware of the The panel stressed that a vic­News Writer percent of these women know woman to define her limitations stages in rapists' behavior, tim can trust the campus ser­their attacker, according to the is to ask herself, "Would you McQuillan said. vices for support, and St. 
As part of Security Awareness Ms. Magazine Campus Project have lunch tomorrow with the Joseph's Medical Center, which Week, a panel of students and on Sexual Assault. guy you had sex with tonight?" A potentially dangerous situ­has a special 24-hour rape cri­professionals spoke to Saint said Kelleher. ation can be identified by the sis center in the emergency Mary's students Wednesday Participants in the panel in­way a man acts, the panel room. night about how to make cluded Mary Kelleher, director Panelists said that 75 percent agreed. Male behavioral caution college social life more fun and of Hesidence Life; Melissa Nagy, of attackers had been drinking signs include derogatory speech Rape is a felony and if hospi­more safe. student government represen­before the attack and 50 per­about women, the testing of tals treat a woman for rape 
One rape was officially re­tative; and Ellen McQuillan, cent of women had also used physical limits in a public place, they must report it to police. ported to Campus Security last president of the Hesidence Hall alcohol prior to being attacked. and violent or aggressive acts, Women should not feel embar­year, according to statistics. Association. They also stated that 80 percent especially while using alcohol. rassed or afraid to report an Although this figure is low, of all raped are planned and incident, as victims are under panelists argued that more in­Most women do not realize many involve getting the "Nobody wants to be raped," no responsibility to give their cidents are happening that are that the majority of men polled woman drunk beforehand. said Kellher. "The best preven­name or press charges with not being reported. admit they would force sex on a tion is education. Don't set police, and no student is re­
girl if they thought they could Most people believe that when yourself up to be alone." quired to report assaults to 
"College is a microcosm of get away with it, and of those sex occurs with the use of alco­campus security, according to what's out there," said Carol who would, only one percent hol, the assault is more excus­If an assault should occur, the Kelleher and Bentley. Bentley, counselor with the would consider forced sex to be able for men, McQuillan said. resources on the Saint Mary's Counseling and Career rape, according to Bentley. And when women are attacked campus are caring and Interested students are en­Development Center. What's after drinking, this conventional numerous, said Kelleher. A couraged to attend special self­"out there," according to F. B.l. A verbal 'yes' is the only view says they were "asking for woman who has been defense presentations by Dan estimates, is rape for one of ev­method of consent identified by it," she added. victimized should talk to Lena and Marie Howard ery three women. law, panelists concurred. Even someone, whether a friend, a Monday at 7 p.m. in the Little 
so, Bentley encourages women The best prevention a woman counselor, someone from Theater and Tuesday from 6-9 One-fourth of college women to be clear in their intentions as can take is to be aware of her Campus Ministry, Heath p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. have been vktims of rape or at-well as their limitations and to location at all times, the panel Services, or Hesident Life, or express those intentions to men. said. Another resource in rape even a trusted professor. 
* 
* ** **
* * 
* CAREER OPPORTUNITIES ** 
* *
** Information * *
* *
* Systems *
* *
* Management *
* ** ** * 
** We're looking for a few highly motivated people *
**

* * with a stong background in computer related **
*

* disciplines (CS, IS, MIS, EE) who want a career *
*
* in Information Systems Management. ** 
* **
* * 
* * 
* If you're the kind of person who's interested in * 
** ** 
rotational assignments, exposure to senior ** ** management, structured classroom development, ** 
* and you like the idea of having input into the ** 
** * 
direction of your career, the ACCENT Program *
*
* * 
* may be the right opportunity for you. * 
*
* * 
** * 
* We'll be on campus for: * 
* *
*
*
* 
* *
* *
* *
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
*
* * 
* *
*
* *
*
* *
**
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* ** * ** *
* * ---------------------­
** * 
1/Z orrCOVER!

* * * * *** 
~~::7 Present at * * door any
** * 
Sunday or

*
* * weeknight
* * 
us 31-33

** * 
Niles, Ml

* * 
* 2 miles north of NO
* *
* * MUST BE 18 TO ENTER 
~ 
* *
* L--------------------~ 



-r~--· 
~ 
~ ~ -~~ ~ 

Business 
page 6 Thursday, October 10, 1991 
Speaker discusses Indiana-Soviet trade relations 
Bv JULIE BARRETT 
Business Writer 
The Moscow Oblast continues to work with the state of Indi­ana and hopes that the failure of the communist coup in Au­gust will help create a strong and successful relationship with Indiana businesses, said Peter Prostyakow, director of the So­viet Institute for Information and Socioeconomic Research on Tuesday. 
The steps taken by the gov­ernment towards democracy 

and a free market economy will also help establish this rela­tionship, he added. 
Prostyakow and three repre­sentatives from the Moscow Oblast discussed their perspec­tives of the August coup and its impact on Indiana-Soviet trade relations. 
The shaky state of the gov­ernment prevents any full-scale economic relations with the So­viet Union right now, the repre­sentatives explained. 
The creation of convertible currency and privatization must be instigated in the Soviet Union before socioeconomic progress can be made, said Anatoly Dolgolaptev, chairman of Moscow Oblast Soviet. 
"There are not many oppor­tunities for short-term profit in the Soviet Union now," Dolgo­laptev added. In order to ac­celerate socioeconomic stability within his country, business in­vestments and joint ventures must be made despite this lack of opportunity for short-term profits, Dolgolaptev explained. 

"To encourage investments and joint ventures now with the Soviet Union, several business incentives have been established such as lower tariffs and paid permission to use land in Russia," Dolgolaptev said. 
Dolgolaptev, Prostyakow and two other representatives from the Moscow Oblast are in the United States now to do busi­ness with the Indiana-Soviet Trade Consortium. 
"Our primary goal at our meetings with the Indiana-So­viet Trade Consortium is to generate a joint agreement to do various kinds of business with each other such as trade, industry and agriculture," Prostyakow said. 
This general agreement will be officially signed at a cere­mony in Moscow by delegates from both parties of the Indi­ana-Soviet Trade Consortium on November 23. 
The Kroc Institute of Interna­tional Peace Studies sponsored the lecture. 

Bankers applaud credit crunch proposal; Some doubt it will stimulate new lending 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -gressively to address these is­George L. Grantham, presi­Bankers applauded a Bush sues," Donald G. Ogilvie, the dent of the First National Bank administration plan to ease the association's executive vice of Picken County in South so-called credit crunch but cau­president, said during the ABA's Carolina, said economic growth tioned that a robust economy -annual conference in San and controls on federal spend­not edicts from Washington -Francisco. "We think he is going ing would be more helpful. will accelerate loan activity. in exactly the right direction." "The problem is everybody 
The Treasury Department Highlights of the Treasury inside that Beltway there," said plan seeks to improve and plan include: Grantham, referring to streamline bank regulation, let •Allowing banks to raise more Congress and bank regulators. banks raise fresh capital, revise capital through offering "The idea that they can decree property appraisals and alter preferred stock. anything to ease the recession some accounting guidelines to • Permitting bankers a confi­does not make sense." give bankers more flexibility to dential appeal of bank exami­David 0. Dubreuil, chief exec­lend money. nations. utive of Louisiana National Se­
Hichard J. Boyle, chief credit •Revising methods for evalu­curity Bank in Donaldsonville, officer and vice chairman of ation of real estate loans. La., said banks in his region Chase Manhattan Bank in New •Restrictions on personal have plenty of money to lend. York, welcomed the package bankruptcy filings. The main problem is "the but doubted it would immedi­•Supporting Environmental people who are borrowing and ately stimulate new lending. Protection Agency rules to re­their ability to repay the loans," 
"This is not what I call a strict banks' liability for envi­said Dubreuil. jump-start to the engine," Boyle ronmental cleanups when they said in a telephone interview. "I don't directly control the prop­The so-called credit crunch think the measures are focused erty. developed last year when the with an eye on the future." economy entered a recession, 
When the economy improves, "It's not going to cure the decreasing loan demand. At the the reforms will ensure eco­whole thing but we're trying to same time, many bankers tight­nomic growth can be sustained, do everything an administration ened loan standards after vig­Boyle said. can to assist an economy that orous examinations from fed­
The plan was unveiled a day we think is moving out" of a eral regulators. The strict ex­after the American Bankers As­recession, Bush said at the ams followed the savings and sociation, the industry's main White House. loan crisis and major bank trade group, asked President A number of officers at small failures in Texas in the 1980s. Bush to back a series of similar community banks, reached on Many economists believe the reforms to stimulate lending. the final day of the convention, slowdown in lending is hamper­A plan to ease the so-called credit crunch was unveiled a day after the 
"We're delighted to see he has expressed mixed views on the ing the economy's climb out of American Bankers Association asked President Bush to back a series moved so firmly and ag-reforms. the recession. of similar reforms to stimulate new lending. 

Lawmakers seek lower credit card rates
Medicaid prescription limit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Mem­res, D-Calif., said Americans bought the account from DIME. bers of Congress pushed legis­hold more than 980 million "My problem is I had no
costs more than lt,,saves 
lation Wednesday aimed at credit cards and by 1995 will choice," she said. "As a con­pressuring the nation's credit have run up a tab of $500 bil­sumer who tries to be careful 
00.

BOSTON (AP}-An experi­Journal of Medicine. 
card issuers into sharing the lion. I think I have been poorly
ment to curb medical "Limitingreimbursement 
wealth with consumers by low­"Because the credit card is served by current banking law." 
expenses by limiting for effective. drugs puts frail, ering their "stratospheric" in­such a pervasive element of the Another bill, sponsored byprescriptions to elderly poor low-income, elderly patients terest rates. American landscape, it is criti­Rep. Larry Smith. D-Fla., would
people resulted in a sharp at increased risk of rise in nursing home institutionalization in nursing 
Over the past two years, in­cal that the market work in the require card issuers to start the terest rates that banks pay to consumer's favor," he said. grace period -the periodadmissions, probably costing homes and may increase raise funds, ranging from sav­Schumer's bill is designed to during which customers can
more money than it saved, ac­Medicaid costs," they cording to a study. concluded. 
ings account rates to the Fed­foster more competition by pay their bills without incurring eral Reserve's discount rate, forcing credit card issuers to interest -on the day the is­For 11 months in 1980 and The New Hampshire have dropped sharply to around disclose their interest rate, an-suers mail the bills, rather than1981, New Hampshire program wB;s,t(lplaced by a 5 percent. . nual fee, graee period and other on the last day of the billing pe­Medicaid paid for no more program ow~d patients But average rates on credit basic information in every print riod.
than three<medicines per as many t16ns ~s they 
cards have actually increased and broadcast advertisement. Many issuers wait five or sixmonth for pathmts covered by needed piece, After slightly to nearly 19 percent, The information would have to days before mailing bills,
the program. This reduced this chan >nursing home 
said Rep. Charles Schumer, D­be on the envelope of any mail thereby cutting into the typical
the use of wedicines by 35 admissions feU to the level 
N.Y., sponsor of a bill targeting solicitations. 25-day grace period, he said. 
percent and saved the state before the program started. 
credit card issuers. That would toughen current John LaWare, a former
an estimated $300,000 to In an accompanying 
000

"Incredibly credit card in­rules, in effect since March banker and a member of the
$400,000. editorial. Drs. Steven 
terest rates remain at the 1989, which require disclosure Federal Reserve Board, saidHowever, a new analysis Schroeder and Joel Cantor of stratospheric heights they were inside mail solicitations but not regulators believe current lawshows that nursing home ad­the Robert Wood Johnson at during the early '80s when in advertisements. provides consumers withmissions for the chronically m Found the New the discount rate was at almost Schumer's bill also would re­enough protection. Making it
elderly poor doubled during the same time, apparently as 

15 percent," he told the House quire credit card companies to difficult for card issuers to raise a result of the limit· on 
Banking consumer affairs sub­give customers 30 days notice rates could discourage them committee. before raising rates, twice as from cutting them in the firstprescriptions. And the extra Schumer charged that the long as the current notice, and place, he said. 
nursing l;l,oJ;b.e bills_, which 

"faltering banking industry" to allow customers to stop using were· also paid by . the was using credit card profits to the card and pay off their Requiring disclosure on en­
Medicaid program, probably were larger than the savings 

make up for commercial real balance at the old rate. velopes is impractical and re­estate loans and other ill-ad­Lillian Schlissel, a constituent quiring it in advertisementson prescriptions, team compared 411 elderly vised investments. of Schumer's from Brooklyn, could cause card issuers to
The study was conducted by New Hampshire patients with Dr. Stephen Soumeral and 1,375 in New Jersey, the tmly 
"We must work to make N.Y., complained to the sub­curtail advertising, he said. credit card issuers share the committee that her DIME Sav­"More regulation is not nec­others from Harvard Medical northeastern state that pro­wealth," he said. ings Bank card, charging 14.9 essarily better regulation,"
School. It was published in vided unlimited free prescrip­Thursday's New England tions afthe time; 
The chairman of the sub­percent, was raised to 17.9 agreed Rep. Carroll Hubbard, committee, Rep. Esteban Tor-percent when another bank D-Ky. 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 10, 1991 page 7 
Ihe ObserYer--=--= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ••••..Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •••.•.•..•••••••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Managar .•.••.••.••.Jay Colucci Accent Edllor...••.•••••••••••••.John OBrien Systems Manager ••••••.••...••.. Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••••.•.•..Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saini Mary's Edltor •••.•..•....Emily Willett Conlroller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions oricampus through letters, Is encouraged. 

LmERS TO THE EDITOR 
Basketball opponents should fear NO's 'sixth man' 

Dear Editor: As a player, I know one 
When one thinks of Notre important factor that controls Dame athletics what is the llrst the success of any team (be it sport that comes to mind? pro or amateur sports) and that Football, of course! Notre is the support of your fans Dame has one of the most pres­through all phases of the game. tigious football traditions in the What does the word nation, thus claiming most of wadvantage" mean when used the attention from all the other in the phrases "home court ad­sports. vantage" or "home field advan­
One specific sport starts next tage?" The word advantage in Tuesday and that is basketball. these cases mean you have an There have been ads in this extra player on the court or newspaper for basketball field and that extra player for tickel<;, but where are the long basketball will be you, the lines or camp outs for season Notre Dame student body. tickets? 
Notre Dame basketball in Notre Dame basketball is 
previous years has been re­going to have a tough schedule 
spectable. Granted we have not this year, especially on the road. 
yet won a national title, but This means we have to make 
Notre Dame is tough In any team has struggled slightly, this has a new image and a new every home game count. In 
sport we play and other teams was due to injuries, grades and coach and nobody knows what order for us to make all our 
respect us as if we arc national to some extent coaching. to expect out of the upcoming games count we need strong 
title contenders. We all know This y.ear, as most of you may season, especially me, and I am .support from the student body. 
that in the last few years the already know, ND basketball one of the players. Every team that enters the 
True spirit of Notre Dam·e rejects .negativism 
Dear Editor: front to every student~past, "mercilessly swept off the tion. Would she have written 
What does Monica Yant's Oct. present and future-who has floor." They support them as the her column if the ad had been 4 Inside Column have in com­ever really believed in the true fight song says "though the about Lou Holtz? We think not. mon with the wNotre Dame spirit of Notre Dame. odds be great or small." We are positive that Coach spirit" and support for its ath­As for the John MacLeod ad, MacLeod does not feel letic teams? ABSOLUTELY We recognize the fact that sure its a little crazy, maybe "humiliated" by the humorous NOTlllNG. Notre Dame basketball has had even a little cheesy. But Hplain approach taken in the afore­
As she so artfully stated, its share of adversity, but we stupid"? Those words describe mentioned ad. He is, however, Notre Dame Sportsmarketing don't think Joe Theisman was only her negative attitude. probably disgusted by her atti­has recently wunleashed a wrong in saying, Hlf you could Notre Dame fans have been tude and hopes, as we do, that massive, er... thunderous ad find some way to capture the waiting for new blood in their the Notre Dame student body campaign designed to attract Notre Dame spirit, you could basketball program. Now feels differently. With four re­student ticket buyers." In her light up the universe." Ms. they've got it. turning seniors and the support view, the campaign was Yant's Inside Column makes it of the Notre Dame community, wembarrassing" and gave clear that she has no clue as to The changes include a new, the hoops sr:fllad should and will students wa good laugh" at the what this really means. more pro-styled marketing go far. GO IRISH! expense of what she believes is At other schools, perhaps an strategy which targets an administration on drugs. attitude like hers is the status tendencies for student apathy Lisa Petursson 
In kecp)ng with the Saturday quo. But more is expected of (or in Yant's case, down right Breen Phillips Hall Night Live theme... NOT! We fans at Notre Dame. Notre hostility) with respect to a Mark Heilman as students/real fans of Notre Dame fans do not go around basketball program overshad­Carroll Hall Dame find her editorial an af-implying our athletes will be owed by the ND football tradi-Oct. 6. 1991 J.A.C.C. should be terril1cd to play because they will not want to face the sixth man on the court, the Notre Dame students. 
So forget about the ghost of Notre Dame's basketball past, and go buy tickets for the present. Because the Fighting Irish will be invincible at home, and with the help of all you, we will crush any opponent that steps into the Thunder Dome. 
Lamarr Justice Dillon Hall 
Oct. 8, 1991 
Dear readers: 
Printing a controversial letter to the editor Is not a problem to the Viewpoint department. 
As long as the author Is legit­imate and signs the letter, it's our job to see that people have a place to take their thoughts, no matter how extreme. 
We sometimes print cartoons with the letters to complement the article as well as fill space. 
The cartoon on yesterday'~; Viewpoint page did not compte. mont tho letter. It made a statement in itself. And unfor­tunately, it was a very deroga­tive statement. Worse yet, the cartoon was unsigned and therefore made it an anony­mous opinion--something con· trary to our policy. 
We do not apologize for printing the letter. And as al· ways, we welcome responses to this 'and any letter that presents an opposing opinion. 
We do apologize for the un· signed cartoon and the misun­derstanding it has caused. 
The VIewpoint Department 

DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
H/3 IS TOTA/.,.l-Y HOT/ I {}(}N'T KNOW fWYa.J CAN l<t&P '!WR. HAN/?5 OFFHIM! \  PROM/58 YOUA 816 TIP, Off)Hf3:? I  UM...YeAH. YOU aJON181JJW ITfOR M/3, /AJIU-YOU? I GOTK/[}!3. "  '1m trying to read your poetry, but I'm helpless  
like a rich man's child.'  
Bob Dylan  
Don't Look Back, submit:  

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

" 
Viewpoint

page 8 Thursday, October 10, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Controversial Joe Clark brings realities of urban education to life 

Dear Editor: 
The myriad problems of the 
American school system have 
been well documented and are 
known to all Americans. Impa­
tient local school districts, faced 
with the reality of drugs, crime 
and lower test scores, have 
taken matters into their own 
hands. 
Frustrated teachers and 
principals in urban en­
vironments have begun a 
counter-offensive against the 
lack of discipline and motiva­
tion which threatens student 
achievement levels by enforcing 
more rigid standards of conduct 
and by raising the academic 

level in the classroom. As one He will be speaking tonight in aged, student morale was low 
might expect, these efforts to a lecture sponsored by the and teachers were afraid to 
"clean up" the city classroom Student Board entitled "Fight come to work. 
have gained as many critics as One More Round" at Stepan Clark, a former Army 
admirers. Center at 7:00 p.m., in an Reserve sergeant, took decisive 
evening which promises to be actions to close the school to 
At the center of the debate as entertaining as it is drug pushers and instill new stands former Eastside High informative. disciplinary measures within (Paterson, N.J.) principal Joe Mr. Clark became principal of the school. Wielding his Clark, whose disciplinary phi­Eastside High in 1982, after 20 trademark bullhorn and base­losophy has gained him na­years as a teacher and elemen­ball bat, Clark instituted a dress tionwide attention, as seen on tary school principal in Pater­code, banned loitering in the news shows and as depicted in son. When he arrived, the hallway and made tardy and the biographical movie Lean on school was overrun by juvenile absent students clean graffiti off Me. He continues to speak out crime, ranging from dope deal­of the walls. on practical solutions to the ers to violent gangs who were problems which plague Ameri­threatening the stability of the Over the next seven years, can education. school. Facilities were dam-Clark threw out students who 
Editor's column was offensive, illogical 
Dear Editor: (read: homophobe!). Granted, hall presidents would like to 
After I had read Kelley what this guy said was not too think." Tuthill's column "Forums Could well-conceived, but must she Miss Tuthill sounds as though Clarify Safe Haven Issue," (The attribute it to the entire male she has made some new discov­Observer, Oct. 7) I could not student body? And does she ery, that because she has help but remind myself of a generally make it her business heard someone use the word "Saturday Night Live" sketch I to answer questions not posed "faggot" in a jocular and flip­
saw a few years ago. This to her? pant manner, all the dorms at sketch is a satirical representa­She equates the use of the the University of Notre Dame tion of the Salem witch trials. word "faggot" to the use of of­should reconsider the notion of 
The prosecuting attorney, fensive racial slurs and implies becoming "safe havens" for played by Jim Belushi, is asked that such "homophobic" atti­gays. to present his case. Looking tudes should never be tolerated. Furthermore, she attributes very distinguished, Jim Belushi However, these days anyone this quote (a quote not 
calmly walks over to the defen­stating the opinion that he be­addressed to her, mind you) and dant, points down to her and lieves an active homosexual the characteristics she as­screams "WITCH!" lifestyle is less virtuous than sociates with it to be the norm 
I suggest that Miss Tuthill and celibacy or a Christian mar­among most male Notre Dame those in line with her riage is subject to being called a students (i.e. gay-bashing ho­weltanschauung examine them­homophobe. mophobes). 
selves as objects of satire in a Miss Tuthill does concede that Are these the same gay-bash­comic analogy, but I am afraid there has been "beneficial" ers that formerly took part in my light-hearted suggestion will debate and discussion on the the "beneficial" debates and be indignantly shrugged off by issue of "safe havens," and that discussions? I fail to see the the infmitely insensitive editor­the dorms have taken on the is­logic in her argument, and I in-chief of the Observer. sue with sincerity. But now she find her observations and con­
But seriously, Miss Tuthill claims that dorms which con­clusions to be self-important, does quite a bit of assuming in sider themselves "safe havens" self-righteous, and offensive. 
this column; by assigning the in all but name should name of "Joe Domer" to the "reassess that decision" be­Lawrence Holland person she attributes his atti­cause "maybe the dorms aren't Off-campus 
tude to that of a typical student as free of insensitivity as some Oct. 8,1991 


SMC students unjustly face discrimination at ND 
were disrupting the school's ac­tivities and dismissed faculty unsympathetic to his vision. He preached his motivational mes­sage to his students: "If you can conceive it, you can believe it, and you can achieve it." 
In 1989, Mr. Clark's exploits attracted national attention when he was put on probation by the local school board for expelling sixty-six students 
whom  he  claimed  were  
"hoodlums,  thugs,  and  
pathological deviants."  

The plight of Mr. Clark, for some, came to symbolize the uphill battle against a system which seems to militate against positive change in urban schools. Praise from former Secretary of Education William Bennett and former President Ronald Reagan rallied support for the embattled principal. 
Clark himself took the offensive and appeared on news shows and forums. Armed with his eccentric oratorical flair, he preached self-motivation and self-discipline as the means to success in academics and in life, urging students and faculty alike to stop blaming the sys­tem. 
Critics, ranging from civil lib­ertarians to educators, charged 
/'

~·DJ 
Dear Editor: 
I disagree with Vincent Fazio's letter to the editor (Oct. 7). Although I share deeply his love for Notre Dame and its Catholic character, I found his criticism of Mr. Szabo's letter mistaken. Mr. Fazio seems to believe that providing condoms "puts aside" morality, and that it supports an "infinite" line of reasoning whereby "rules should be annulled, if they are broken." Mr. Fazio's fears are well intended, but somewhat misplaced. 
Providing condoms is not necessarily inconsistent with teaching the traditional value of chastity. These two actions are not a compromise of values, but merely an effort to mitigate the harm for those who reject traditional value; you must do "A," but if you reject "A" then 
you must at least do "B." The two messages represent contingent mitigation, not contradictory choices. 
For example, suppose a par­ent teaches temperance to his or her child, but the child be­comes drunk at a party anyway. Is it wrong for the parent to go out and give the child a safe ride home? No, because a safe ride home reduces the potential harm of drunk driving. 
The message sent to the child is not mixed, it merely says "I care for you," not "I condone drunkenness." Just as a"safe ride" is consistent with temper­ance, "safe sex" is consistent with chastity. 
Life is more complex and 
ambivalent than Mr. Fazio 
would lead us to believe. We 
rarely face clear choices be­
tween right and wrong, rather Mr. Clark's approach with de­meaning students and depriving them of fundamental rights. Some accused the disciplined approach was counterproduc­tive in that it sent more poor kids out on the street, where there is little hope of success. 
The attention surrounding Mr. Clark certainly focused the educational debate on the stark problems of urban education, as it attempts to cope with ris­ing homelessness, chemical de­pendency and violence in the inner cities. Mr. Clark is in a unique position to speak with candor on how he sees the plight of urban youth in the coming years. 
The Student Union Board in­vites you to share an informa­tive and entertaining evening with Joe Clark tonight at 7:00 
p.m. at Stepan Center. Tickets for the show are $3 for students and $5 general admission, and can be obtained at LaFortune Information Desk or at the gate. 
Dan Aiesia 
Dan Dwyer 
Pat Smyth 
SUB Ideas and Issues 
Committee 
Oct. 9, 1991 
we must struggle with choices between wrong and more wrong. That is why our re­sponse to life must be as subtle as the challenges we face. 
Providing condoms is just such a refined response. Con­doms prevent disease, and death. One out of every six Americans has an incurable sexually transmitted disease. Condoms can help prevent the spread of these diseases, in­cluding AIDS. 
Condoms also can help prevent the suffering of unplanned pregnancies, and reduce the number of abor­tions. It is a part of the Catholic character to prevent these evils, and we can work to do so without dropping "all rules and morals." 
If Mr. Fazio believes it be­
neath the "character" of a Catholic institution to promote the safety of condoms, and I am sure that he is not alone in this belief, then I suggest we all reflect further on our concept of "character." What kind of character lets us turn a blind eye to preventable human suffering? 
Christ reached out to people in need, even when those around him felt it undignified. Given Christ's example, are condoms really so beneath the dignity of Notre Dame? No, Notre Dame can always teach chastity first, and in a spirit of Christian mercy promote safety second. Such an approach may offend the purists, but I think that's a small price to pay. 
John Blakey Off-campus 
Oct. 7,1991 
Dear Editor: 
I want to end the "SMC vs. DOMER" debate once and for all. 
Does anyone out there know what the word "oppression" means? Have you ever felt op­pressed? Are you black, fe­male, fat, Indian, Spanish, a "dead-head", handicapped, Jewish, Catholic, Cuban, blond, blue-eyed, Iranian, freckled, abused, Southern, buck­teethed, a burn victim, a crimi­nal, or a "Domer"? 
If you are or if you have ever felt any sort of discrimination due to anything at all, then you will understand how it feels to be a "SMIC CHIC". 
I do not want a damned infe­riority complex because I feel like every time I raise a ques­tion at a Notre Dame Seminar or make a statement at a Notre Dame Club I am being judged on the fact that I am not smart enough to get into Notre Dame. 

I am sick of seeing the ques­tion "Why are you here?" be­hind people's stares. I have ev­ery right to be anywhere at anytime and say anything. It is my right as an Americ!n, isn't it? It is my right, ideally, as a human being. 
At this point, I'd like to share a poem that is worth pondering: 
"There is a women in every man, a man in every woman. Let the four lie down together. 
Four shall be two, two shall be one, for a time. There is an Arab in every Jew, a Jew in every Arab. Let these four be one, for a time. I am a honkey who lives in the black, he is the nigger who dwells in me. Not knowing that, we lay down for a time. Oppression! He cried. He was right. Two and two only are stranger. But four may be one for a time." 
(Unknown) 
We are all a part of each other. In the end, we are the same. Thank you. 
Meghan J. King LeMans Hall 
Oct. 6,1991 


Accent 
Thursday, October 10, 1991 page 9 

WAKE UP I LooK Our 
The Observer/John Rock and Joe Moody 

George, (from left) Ruthanne, holdin(:J Jack, and Angel swing in the backyard behind the home. 

from God or the beast of the world. How do you feel about the United State's government? I feel we have abandoned our forefathers. How do you feel about the Catholic Church? To me, it is the true church of Christ. 
What about other religions? 
I believe that the Lord honors the sincerity in our hearts. What do you love most in life? 
Peace 
What do you fear most? 
The lack of peace. 
What is your attitude to­ward death? Love is stronger than death. What is the hardest part 
about what you do? When you offer a child all you can and they reject it. 
"One baby, four year-old Jack, was born five months premature by young parents who neglected him," com­mented Ruthanne on one of her ehildren affiicted with total blindness and cerebral palsy. 
"The doctor didn't think he was going to make it. He was 
lacking the personal touch." 
Jle did make it. "He's so happy now. Very out-going. Jack sees himself with no limits. He's in love with ev­erything." A common scene is to see Jack blissfully twirling himself and singing such songs as the "Notre Dame Victory March" and "Immaeulate Mary." Ruthanne reeognizes the benefits of the twentieth century for many of her chi!­dren who receive medical aid. However, she also realizes the dangers that have also so quickly arisen for all children. "The children that come in from placement have all been laden with television. It's obvious-their approach to adults, their violence to one another, their rude talk, their inability to be creative. . .they're just gone." A television was recently donated to Ruthanne's home. She didn't know what to do 
with it until someone sug­gested turning it into an aquarium. 
Huthanne screens out toy donations. "Toys that generate violence I do not allow." Though the children sing oftnn and play instruments, there are also no radios in the home. "Due to the illicit messages, I 
.:._:al 
Gene, who said he was inspired 
by Buddy Holly, plays the piano . don't have time to screen everything that comes on the radio." One might qunstion Huthanne's technique of dos­ing off so much of our modern world away from her childrnn. "Knowledge of wiekt~dncss is 
• not wisdom to the Lord." she responds. Ruthanne believes her kids already have enough to battle against without exposing them to the whims of multi-billion dollar industries trying to sell America's ehildrnn. Huthanne's kids may not know the number one song on the eharts, the latest install­ment of the Terminator series or the new fall TV line-up. 
What they do know is struggle, faith, inner happi­ness. and the love selflessly provided to them by a woman in the country who will hold them as a Mother. 
page 10 
Accent 


By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Simple Word) were very Music Critic. successful on college stations. The Connells have been big 
Playing pop melodies reaped news ever since they originated from the countryside of North in 1984, when the band was Carolina, the Connells have founded by brothers Mike and been thrilling fans across the David Connell. country for over six ¥ears. Their debut release, Darker 
The Raleigh-based band will Days, from 1985, was co­play at Theodore's tonight, in produced by Don Dixon, a giant the first of what WVFI station in college radio who has manager Kevin Flaherty hopes worked with the Smithereens will be a long series of concerts and R.E.M. sponsored by student radio Boylan Heights_, the band's station WVFI. second album, was produced 
"It's good timing for a concert by another significant member to be on a football weekend," of the group that brought said Flaherty. ''I've heard from national prominence-to the more than a few 'people that Athens, Ga. music scene. they put on an excellent show." Mitch Easter, the former front 
With four albums under their man for Let's Active and belts, the Connells have begun producer of R.E.M. 's first to edge out of the territory album, Murmur, took the band reserved for strictly under his wing, and Boylan "alternative" bands. Heights rose to number four on 
"It's very accessible for the Gavin Report chart. people who are frightened of • Opening for the Connells will be the 'progressive' term," said Seven Simons, one of the latest 
Flaherty. "At times it's jangly. bands to emerge from the There is a lot of harmony, and endlessly fertile clubs of Doug MacMillan's vocals are Athens. whispered, which gives the Since the success of Athens music a light, calming sound, residents R.E.M. and the B-52s 
The North Carolina band The Connells with opening band Seven Simons will perform at Theodore's tonight 
even though the last two in the early 1980's, the college at 9:00p.m.

albums have been more town has consistently produced upbeat." winners on college radio. several Australian bands, 
The Connells' last three Seven Simons is currently including the Church. albums, including One Simple promoting their second album, Flaherty is hopeful that WVFI Word, from 1990, all reached Four Twenty-four, with a seven can attract other college-radio the top ten in the major college date tour of the Midwest. favorites to play at Theodore's. radio charts, while Connells Four 1\venty-four is an album ''I'd like to do a series at singles such as "Fun & Games" which features the dark, Theodore's," said Flaherty. (from Fun & Games) and "Stone mysterious guitar sound "Right now, we're looking at Cold Yesterday" (from One reminiscent of early R.E.M. and the Poster Children, and 
Thursday, October 10, 1991 

Clark spreads IDSPiriDO message 
By ELIZABETH VIDA 
Accent Writer 
"He gets people excited about life." 
This comment is repeatedly made about Joe Clark. Clark is the educator who resurrected a war zone named Eastside High School in the poor section of Patterson, New Jersey. 
The dramatic turnaround of a school that drug lords once controlled, and the ensuing controversy surrounding Clark's methods inspired a Time magazine cover story, numerous tele­vision appearances on shows like "60 Minutes" and "Nightline" and an award winning movie, "Lean on Me." 
Clark now spreads his message to an even wider audience around the country, including teachers, school boards, parents, business people and students. 
Through the efforts of the Student Union Board, he is speaking on campus tonight, at Stepan Center at 7:00p.m. 
After receiving heart surgery, Clark moved on from his position as principal of Eastside to Assistant Superintendent of Schools in the district. He has also written a book, "Laying Down the Law," in which he shares his philosophy on education and life in general. 
One of the main tenets of his philosophy involves discipline. This demand for discipline in school has gotten Clark into trouble in the past, as he was criticized for wielding a bat in the hallways, and being too demanding of his students. 
Clark writes in his book, "discipline is the ultimate tenet of education. Discipline establishes the format, the environment for academic achievement to occur. If there is no discipline, no learning can take place. Without discipline, there is anarchy." 
Clark's daughter, Joetta, is a living example of the rewards of the discipline no doubt instilled in her by her father. She is a world class runner, and is preparing for the Olympics in Barcelona this summer. 
Joe Clark's energy and his accomplishments encouragp, people to improve their lives. 
His work at Eastside is a reminder that if students who had a bleak or even nonexistent future could turn their lives around, then anyone can achieve whatever they set their minds to, with a positive attitude and a lot of work. 
In thP end, people are responsible for themselves. "Don't go around blaming other people for your plight," Clark writes. "Blame yourself, because if you end up a nothing, it's because that's what you want to be." 
Tickets for Joe Clark's presentation are $3 and can be purchased at the LaFortune information desk. 
whoever is coming to Chicago." 
The 390 tickets offered for the show sold out in three days, and Flaherty was both excited and hopeful about the interest in the Connells. 
"Theodore's was getting largely ignored for concerts," 
Flaherty said, "and I think it's a great place to see up-and­coming bands. With the reallocation of space in LaFortune, it's surprising that Theodore's didn't get touched, and I'd much rather see concerts there than something asinine." 


------~---------------; 
Thursday, October 1 0, 1991 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds IS 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Patrick wants 3 GA's for Penn  I NEED USC TIX (STUD OR GA)  $$NEED 1 PITT GA.  CHRISTA  NEEDED: 2 TIX, STUD OR GA  
State, dammit. x1 001  CALL MIKE@ 277-9205  x1346.$$  FOR TENN. CALL SUE AT 271­ 
Notices  LOST GOLD "ROPE" BRACELET,  0053.  
on October 8, 1991, somewhere on  I need tickets for Mich. St., and  I Have TENN GAs  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIII!III!II  South Quad.  USC. Call 1384  will Trade for PITT GAs  WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S WILL SELL  
25% off list price  If found, PLEASE CALL  call Paul 283-3863  PLEASE CALL EMILY AT  OR TRADE (PLUS $$$) FOR 2  
I 0-5:30 everyday  BETH  #2509.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  277-4861  TENN GA'S CALL MOE 3402  
Pandora's Books corner of ND  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  i need GAs for NAVY!II Todd x1784  
ave & Howard  I need 2 Navy GAs.  
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  Need 4 GAs for Penn State!  Please  i need 2 GA's for USC and PITT.  Call Kathy x4944  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  WANTED  Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay $$$. Call at work  call AJ Xt253  Greg x1795.  Have PITT GAS to trade  
(312) 701-6204 or at home  HELP!! Need 3 GA's for NAVY  i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791  for USC or TENN  
Right to Life  OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000  (708) 616-7818 anytime.  x2797  or sell  
Weekly Picket at Crisis  mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII  PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  HELP I  X1167 or 1177  
Pregnancy Center every Friday.  Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write  We need 1 USC and 1 Navy GA  TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED  
Meet at Sam-Library  IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del  NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE .  Call Chris or Pat @ 4657  Please call Sam Santo a1  I need 4 GA's lor the USC or Navy  
circle.  Mar CA 92625.  CALL JILL 272-1967.  (201)217-0030 (home) or  game. PLEASE! Call Amy at 284­ 
Help!ll need G.A.s to both Pitt and  (201) 992-8700 (work).  5117. Thanx.  
++++++ ATTENTION ALL+++++  I need a ride for break to Philly­ NEED 2 PITT GA'S  USC. Please call Andy@  
Buy your Notre Dame Mom,  Wilm-S. NJ area & back for USC  CALL ROB @ 3054  233-9588.  WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE  Need Pitt Tix X3543  
Dad. and Alum Sweats  game. Amy x4290  GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097  
this Saturday from 8 a.m.  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR  Need PITT GA'S; call @ 2789  Need 2 GA's for Navy and  
until noon at the SOUTH  NEED Ride/Riders to Boston.  TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL  leave message will return call  Need 4 TENN GA's  Tennessee.  Call Tim at xt417.  
QUAD FLAG POLE II II  Rhode Island area for October  601-249-3417 NIGHTS.  immediately  call jon 271-1562  
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Breakl Please!! I Call Amy 283­ Need 2 GAs for Pitt, 1 for Tenn. for  
1347.  i need 2 GAs for PITT for my aunt,  usc  usc  usc  usc  friends from MAINE!  
COMIC BOOK SHOW  who's a nun, and her friend, another  I Need 4 GAs Asap for Family  HAVE PITT GAS  x2258  
NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NJ  nun. Would you deny a nun her  Jenny at 3822  CALL xt781  
Saturday, Oct. 19th  OCT 18 $$ X4456  fun? Greg x1795  MAKE OFFER  I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC  
10am-5pm.  WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE  and Tennessee.  
Z.B. Falcons Hall  FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS  $$$$$  2 NAVY GA'SI  PLEASE HELP!  Chris 239-5713  
Sheridan at Western.  Promote and Organize our Spring  CALL TIM AT X2506  I need 2 USC tix  
Take bus to downtown, transfer to  Break tours.  All materials  USC GA's needed. Call and leave  Tom #3109  I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So  
Western Ave. bus. Lots of  furnished.  Good Pay and Fun.  Call  message 277-9468.  FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME  my friends can see those Red Neck  
collectibles. door prizes every hour.  Campus Marketing.  1-800-423­ GAMES273-1802  I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY  Vols.  Call the Green-One x3409.  
AdmiSSIOn $1  5264  $$$$$  GA TIXS.272-6306  
DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR  TIXWANTED:  
DOS User's Group  FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS  NEED TENN. GA'S.  USC. STUDENT OR GA. (Willing to  NEED 4 PITT GA'S AND 2 NAVY  2NAVY  1 USC  
Meetmg tontte 1011 0  to students or student organtzations  CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS,  trade) Call Ron 277-9205  GA'S ...CALL 288-7458 AND ASK  Brian x1743  
in G015 Computer-Math Bulid.  promting our Spring Break  OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM.  FOR MATT OR ROB  
WORDPERFECT FOR WINDOWS  Packages. Good Pay and Fun.  Need 2 Pitt tix  Thuy is so desperate for G.A.s or  
w1ll be shown  Bnng a disk I  Call CMI.  t-800-423-5264.  WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD  Call Liz at 4094  Relative have never seen  student tickets to Pitt he'll show you  
JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE?  CONDOMS IN ACTION I  anything you want to see. Sell him  
LOST/FOUND  Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling Spring Break Packages to  NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­ Need 2 USC GAs. Call Cath x4276  NEED 3 USC GA'S to have their DREAMS COME TRUE  two tix to get the mother of all rewards. Try him at his personal  

 Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  0654  Call MIKE at X2360  love palace@272-9326. If he isn't  
GLASSES FOUND!  Florida!  Best Trips and Prices!  I NEED NAVY AND TENNGA'S  home please leave this rich, rich  
ONE PAIR MEN'S GLASSES IN  Spring Break Travel 1-800-638­ NEED 2 PITT GA's  Rich alums need 10 A. F. g.a.'s. Will  man a message about the tickets.  
LENSCRAFTERS CASE FOUND  6786.  Monica X2680  HAVE 1 PITTGA  pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206)  
ON FRIDAY NITE, 10/4, NEAR  FOR SALE OR TRADE  624-7990  Attention! I have friends coming  
LIBRARY TO CLAIM, CALL  ••PITT Tlx··  HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME  from California who would love to  
COLETTE. 283-4434.  I need 5  GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN.  CALL TOM  Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and  see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs  
Also Need 1 USC  TIX. OR WILL SELL. CALL  X1762  USC  Whitney X4304  or student tix would be most  
IF YOU ARE THE YOUNG LADY  x4421  JASON,287-8818.  excellent, dude. Call 277-6932 and  
WHO DRIVES A WHITE HONDA  I NEED 4 PITT GA'S  I need a Navy GA desperately  give Rob your price. If Rob isn't  
CRX AND LOSl HER  Wanted: 1 Pitt Stud & 2 Navy  I HAVE PITT GAS FOR  CALL 289-7128  Call Mike x4655  home listen to his excellent  
SUNGLASSES AT THE CAR  GAs: Please help. X4036  SALE-Call Matt x2318.  answering machine and leave a  
WASH, STOP BY OR CALL. THE  HELP I I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S.  HELP I Alum needs 2 USC GAs  message.  
GLASSES HAVE BEEN FOUND.  ATTENTION CHEESEHEADS!  Give me your PITT Student Tic and  WILL PAY$$$$  Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037  
need ride to Kenosha. Oshkosh, or  you will know the meaning of life (or  ASK FOR AL@ X1230  NEEDED:4-6 Tenn. GAs,any USC  
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wt  St. Point, WI for fall break. Call  at least get some money) Chris  NEED 5 Pitt GA's Joe #2190  tix Call Jeremy 277-4873  
DIAMOND  OLDI HEIRLOOM.  x2040 & ask for Joe.  x3414  
BEYOND SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  I need:  2 Navy GAs  Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top  
IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO KELLEY X4294  FOR RENT  usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc  FOR SALE: 2 PITT AND 6 TENN GA'S. CHRIS X1023.  Tenn. GAs call Greg 289-8917  dollar! call Jeff 234·2396  
Vince Needs two GA's to see  I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S  
FOUND: FEMALE GERMAN  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  THE TROJANS  CALL COREY 277-5854  
SHEPHARD MIX WITH RED  219-291-7153  Call x3414 anytime  i need 2 GAs for PITT. Jeffx1791  Help me be a little angel! My  
COLLAR DRAGGING A CHAIN.  usc usc usc usc usc usc  godmother needs a USC GA. Be  I Need 2 USC GA's  
FOUND ON CAMPUS. CALL ANN  House for Rent  usc usc usc usc usc usc  i need 1 GA for PITT, dammit. Dana  my savior-X3484  -Steve X 1835  
654-8550 OR 239-6346.  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  dee 277-8084.  
8am-4pm.  •#•#•Let's Make A Deal.#"#  HAVE 2 GA Pitt CALL 288-0730  
LOST OR STOLEN  1310 South Bend Ave.  EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR  I NEED 1 STUD TIX OR GA FOR  I need USC GA's more than you  EVENINGS  
LICENSE PLATE  PITT AND WILL EXCHANGE  NAVY PLEASE CALL PAT  can imagine!! Call Liz at x2691 if  
llltno1s plate readmg  Extra nice completely furnished two  THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S.  X1763  you can help me out!  WHO HAS THE MIRACLE TICKET  
"D TROIT" missing since  bedroom with den. Ideal for two or  CALL MARIA AT 284-5132  
Thurs. 19 Sept.: came off  three students. Heat and electric  ATTENTION EVERYONE:  I NEED  Need 4 General Admission Tickets  LOOKING FOR 4  PITT GA'S  
somewhere between Kaplan  furnished. $300 for two. Graduate  MY LITTLE BROTHER AND  6 TICKETS FOR THE TENN.  to Pitt and 2 tickets to USC. Call  
Educational Center (next to Turtle  students preferred. Call233-8647.  FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO  GAME!! EVEN ONE WILL HELP!!  Marylou or Ray Cressy at 234­ FRIENDS ROADTRIPING FROM  
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's  THE ••NAvy·· GAME. NEED  MICHELLE 284-5536  7553 (Day) or 234-3873 (Nile)  THE 'BURGH.  
cute, but it w1ll cost a bundle to  AA-1 Bedroom furnished apartment.  GA'S!  
replace so PLEASE return if you  Newly decorated, carpeted, bath &  CALL MARIA AT 284-5132  I need 2 Pitt GA's really bad! Please  NEED 2 GA FOR USC. LV. MSG  CALL PETE AT 234-4715­ 
have it and no questions will be  shower, private entrance. Utilities  call Sandy x4071 if you can help me  FOR MK. 312/868-0119.  LEAVE A MESSAGE AND I'LL  
asked\\ If you have the plate or  furnished. Storage. $260.233-8647.  out. Thanks\  MEET YOU.  
Info. call 4911. Generous reward  I need 2 TN GAs .Will pay BIG$$.  2 Pitt GA's needed Please call  
offered.  FOR SALE  Call will at x3001.  NEED 3 TENN GA'S WILL PAY BIG $ X4558  x283-2831  I NEED 4 USC GA'S Ill  
LOST!!!!!!!  Need 4 PITT GA's. Can you help  I need a GA for Navy! II Call  PLEASE CALL  
at Steppan fields or tennis  CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill  me out? X4419  Student !-ball book 4 sale  Jahnelle at x2867  ANDREA 283-1330.  
courts on Sunday, Sept. 29,  T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­ cost!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. x1637.  
gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that  Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone  I need a student ticket or GA for  Need 2 USC GA's. This is  
have lots of sentimental value.  Game Day Promotions 291-6394.  Pitt-<:all Diane x2855  WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA'S FOR 2  SERIOUS! Call Steve x2366  sell book std tix  
If found. please call x2867  TENN. GA'S. CALL BOB 277-2560.  271 19 98 8-11  
$$$$REWARD$$$$$  selling student ticket booklet  HELP! I need Pitt  NEED 2 TENN GAs-CALL DOC AT  
x3025  tickets!!!  Please call 1321  NEED PITT GA'S AND STUDENT  2723001  I desperately need 2 pitt ga'sl  
LOST: I was going to the  TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 284­ call Art at 2479  
cleaners and I dropped my  I-WAY PLANE TICKET TO ST.  Need 6 Ten. and 6 USC GA's  3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME,  NEED PITT GA'S FOR POOR  
roommate's tie somewhere  LOUIS. DEPARTS SB ON 9/19.  Will pay big bucks.  NUMBER AND THE PRICE YOU  RELATIVES.  CALL KEVIN 1589  Need 2 Pitt G.A's.  Call2106.  
between Flanner and D2 on  CALL MIKE 1640 TO MAKE  #3718  ARE ASKING.  
Monday, October 7 a\ about  OFFER.  I NEED USC GAS  Large family needs PITT GA'S  
12:45 PM. If you picked il up  Have 2 Tenn GAs, want to trade for  WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT  CALL PHIL X2096  Use ALL we buy -GAURANTEED  
please call Jason at 1521  CD Player -asking $75  2 Pitt GAs. CAll Shannon P. 272­ TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL  JEFF eves 272 9602  
before he kills me!  call Mike at xt068  8735.  284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME,  
NUMBER AND PRICE  I NEED 1 PITT TICKET!  $$ WANTED:1 USC GA OR STUD  
LOST: Small Indian purse  Have round Trip ticket  MANY PITT AND NAVY TICKETS  Please call x1963  TICKET. BRIDGET x4980 $$  
wl student I. D. card.  to ATLANTA good til  NEEDED. RICH PARENTS WILL  I need PITT GAs I  student OR ga  
Please call Mike at  Christmas X1167 kyle  PAY BIG MONEY!  Call Jim xt493  NEEDGA'S  
283-3546 or send to  CALL ERIC or JEFF @x3575  -AIR FORCE GA's Needed!!  CALL TOM x3242  
261 Morrissey Manorll  1983 Buick LeSabre Limited,  NEED 2 NAVY GAS STEVE 233­ (At least 2) Please Cali­ 
34,000 miles, excellent condition,  Selling Pittsburgh student  3882  Cathleen @x 2822  I NEED 3 NAVY GAs.  
Found in Career & Placement:  loaded and overdrive, $5, 900/offer,  tickets. Luis: 273-1528  Call Carol x4942.  
Red. white & blue jacket: NO key  277-9737.  NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE  DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIX  
ring-8 keys including Mazda car key.  One Pitt Student ticket  NEED PITT GA'S X2187 DAN  JOE X1360  FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958  UISE $500 ... $1 000... $1500  
LOST: Brown, brushed leather  4 sale. x3459 ask for Joe.  NEED 6 TIX FOR PITT  NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT  Need Pitt GAs Call Jim 232-3296  FOOLPROOF  
Jacket. Very desperate to recover i\1!1 If you have it, have seen it, or know anything about it, PLEASE call Robb at 1802. Reward offered.  HAVE !WAY TIX TO CIN. ON 10118 4 OCT BREAK-CALL THERESE 2845237  CALL TOM x3242 NEED USC TIX: STUD. OR GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE AT:  277-9733 HELP MElli HELP MElli HELP ME!!!  I need 2 or 3 Tenn. GA call Shawn X3256  FUNDRAISING For your fraternity, sorority, team or  
No questions asked.  1 way plane ticket from  256-7034  I NEED PITT TICKETS!  Need TENN & USC GA's  Stan  other campus organization.  
LOST OR STOLEN JESUS  Baltimore.MD to South Bend at the end of fall break. Cheap$! Call 4905.  NEEDED: 1 GA NAVY. CALL CHRISTINE AT 271-0053.  CALL ALLISON X2750  xt726 WILL TRADE GA'SI  NEED 2 USC  Absolutely no investment required! ACT NOW POl rHI ClllNCI TO WIN l  
He's 3-dimensional and my  HELP!I!  I NEED NAVY GAs Ill  HAVE 2 NAVY. JILL X3021  CliiiiUN CIUIII AND PUULOUS 1'111111  
RA wants him back to light up his room.  TICKETS  DESPERATELY NEEDED!!  $$$$MONEY NO OBJECT$$$$  I NEED 1 PITT TICKET FOR A  CALL 1-800-950-8472, ext. SO  
Return him with no questions  2 PITT GAS-PARENTS COMING  FRIEND!  
asked to 316 Flanner.  Need Connells tix-<:all Don 277­ IN FOR BIRTHDAY!  CALL SCOTT: x1832 ANYTIME  
God would want you to do it.  5058  CALL LAURA AT X2545  GREG 1742  see CLASS/page 14  

---·---~------­
Thursday, October 10, 1991
page 12 
SCOREBOARD 
AP TOP 25 

Record Pis Pvs AL PLAYOFF STATISTICS INDIANA HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL 1. Florida St. (58) 5-0-0 1.498 1 
2. Miami (1) 4-Q-0 1,416 2 3. Washington (I) 4·0-0 1,404 3 
BATTING SUMMARY Oaao SA 4. Tennessee 4-0·0 1,298 4 

1. lndpls Ben Davis (6-0) at BeUevllle (10.) Althofl' Sat. 5. Michigan 3·1·0 1,213 7
TORONTO ab r h 2b 3b hr rbl avg 
2. 
Penn (6·0) vs S.Bend Oay. 6. Oklahoma 4-0-{) 1,208 5 

3. 
Carmel (6-0) vo Connersville. 7. Notre Dame 4·1·0 1,129 8


Alomar 2b 7 2 4 0 0 0 0 .571 
4. Lawrence North (6-0) vs Warren Central . 8. Baylor 5-0-{l 1,083 11Gruber 3b 8 0 4 0 0 0 4 . 500 5. E. Chicago Central (6-0) vs Crown Point. 9. Penn St. 5-1-{) 991 12Carter r1 7 2 3 1 0 0 2 .429 
6. Merrillville (6-{)) at 4A No. 1 Hobart. 10. Florida 4-1-{l 895 13White cr 8 4 3 1 0 0 0 .375 
7. Franldln Central (5-1) at lndpls Pike. 11. Ohio St. 4-0-{) 860 14Olerudlb 8 0 2 0 0 0 2 .250 
8. Richmond (5-1) at Logansport. 12. Pittsburgh 5-0-{l 692 17Mulllnlb db 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 .167 
9. Fort Wayne North (5·1) vs PW Snider. 13. Calll'ornla 4-0-{) 689 18Borders t 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 .125 
10. I.Atayette Jefl'(5·1) at Anderson. 14. Nebraska 3·1-0 687 15
Tabler ph 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Leess 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
15. Syracuse 4-1-{) 653 10 Maldonado II' 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Oaao4A 16. N. Carolina St. 5-0-0 638 19 
1. Hobart (6·0) vs SA No. 6 MerrUJv!De. 17.1owa 3·1·0 f/J7 9Gonzales pr·lb 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2. Boonv!De (6·0) at Vincennes. 18. Oemson 3-1-{) 579 6Totals 67 9 18 2 0 0 8 .269 
3. 
Seymour (5·t) at Bloomington North. 19. Alabama 4-1-{) 439 20 

4. 
Evansvtlle Bo111e (5·1) at Bv. Reitz Sat. 20. !Dlnols 3·1-{) 372 22


MINNESOTA ab r h 2b 3b hr rbl avg 
5. 
Port Wayne Wayne (5·1) at PW Ebnhurst. 21. Texas A&M 3·1·0 303 23 

6. 
New Haven (5-t) at E. Noble. 22. Georgia 4·1·0 287


Knoblauch 2b 6 3 4 0 0 0 1 .667 
7. Avon (6-0) at Plalnlleld. 23. Mississippi 5-1-{l 112Harper c 8 0 3 1 0 0 1 .375 
8. Columbia Oty (5·1) at Carroll (Allen). 24. Auburn 3·2·0 105 16Mack r1 6 1 2 1 0 0 1 .333 
9. Jndpls Washington (5·1) at lndpls Arlington. 25. Colorado 2·2-0 92 25Gagne n 7 1 2 0 0 0 1 .286 
10. Port Wayne South (4·2) vs PW Northrop. Other receiving votes: Arizona St. 74,Gladden Ir 8 1 2 0 0 0 0 .250 
Mississippi St. 30, Fresno St. 24, SouthernDavis db 5 1 1 0 0 0 2 .200 

Oaao3A 
Miss. 23, Air Force 19, East Carolina 16,Puckett cr 7 0 1 0 0 0 1 .143 

1. Tipton (6·0) at Madison-Grant. 
Missouri 12, North CaroUna 12, UCLA 11,Hrbek 1b 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 .125 

2. Port Wayne Dwenger (5·1) at PW Lu.....,, 
Georgia Tech 8, Indiana 7, Rutgers 4,Lelus ph-3b 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 

3. BvaDIVIJJe Memorial (5·1) vs Bv. Harrison. 
Southern Cal 4, Texu Christian 3, VIrginia 2, Larkin ph 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 

4. Grllllth (4-1) vs Highland. Wisconsin 1.
Pagliarulo 3b 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
5. Maconaquab (6-0) at Cus.
Newman 3b 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
6. lndpls Cathedral (4-2) at Lawrence CentraL
Ortiz c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
7. Western (5·1) vs Lar.Harrlson . 
Totals 64 7 16 2 0 0 7 . 250 
8. 
Juper (4·2) at Wasbtogton. 

9. 
Hamilton Southeastern (5·1) at HamUton Hts. 


TRANSACTIONS

10. New Palestine (4-2) vs Westfield. 
PITCHING SUMMARY Toronto AUTO RACING
Oaao2A g lp h r er bb so era 1. Greencude (6-0) vs Edgewood. INTERNATIONAL FEDBRATION OF Wells 1 3 2 0 0 2 2 0.00 2. West Lafayette (6·0) at Frankfort. AUTOMOBILB SPORTs-Elected Max Mosley 
Timlin 1 2 1·3 1 0 0 1 2 0.00 president.
3. 
North Putnam (6·0) at Ooverdale. Ward 1 2 1 0 0 0 4 0.00 BASilBALL

4. 
Bvansvllle Mater Del (5-1) vs Castle. Henke 1 1 1-3 0 0 0 0 2 0.00 5. Tell Oty (5-1) vs Princeton. American League Guzman (1·0} 1 5 2-3 4 2 2 4 2 3.18 6. South Adams (6·0) at Woodlan. CLEVELAND INDIANs-Released Keith CandlotU (0-1) 1 2 2-3 8 5 5 1 2 16.85 7. Hagerotown (5·1) at Union Oty. Hernandez, first baseman, and Mike York, 


Totals 2 17 16 7 7 8 14 3.71 
8. Eutskle (5·1) at Leo. pitcher. 
9. Sullivan (5-1) vs N.Central (Sullivan). MILWAUKEB BREWERs-Fired Tom Mbmeeota 10. Paoli (5-1) vs Brown Co. Trebelhorn, manager. g lp h r er bb so era TBXAS RANGBR5-Bxerclsed Its option on 
Gulhrle 1 2 1·3 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 Nolan Ryan, pitcher, ror the 1991·92 season. Willis 1 2 1·3 0 0 0 0 2 0.00 National League Aguilera 1 1 1·3 1 0 0 0 2 0.00 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLJB5-Asslgned John Bedrosian I 1-3 1 1 0 1 0 0.00 
Morris, outnelder, and Tim Mauser, pitcher, Tapanl (0-1) 1 61·3 8 4 4 2 5 5.68 
to Scranton-WUkes-Barre or the International Morris (1-0) 1 5 1·3 8 4 4 0 4 6.75 
League. Announced that Darrel Akerrelds,

lnterhall Cross ~ 
Totals 2 18 18 9 8 3 13 4.00 
pitcher, and Sll C&mpusano, outnelder, have opted to become free agents. SCORE BY INNINGS 
BASKETBALL Toronto 102 103 200-9 
Global Basketball AsiiOCiation Minnesota 222 001 000-7 
Country '~-•~_..,. 
GRBBNSBORO CITY GATER5-Slgned Bill Batts, center; VInce Wilson, guard; and Eric DP-Toronto 2, Minnesota 1. WB-Toronto 9, Minnesota 14. SB-Knoblauch 2, Gruber, Davis, 
Thomu, forward. Mack, White, Gladden, Alomar. CS-Knoblauch, Mack, Carter. 5-Aiomar. SF-Carter. 
10/9/91 Meet Results 
FOOTBALL Saves-Ward, AgullerL 
National Football League WP--Guzman. 
BUFFALO BILLS-Released Chris Oldham,

St. Ed's 62
Game 1 cornerback. Activated Joe Staysnlak, ofl'enslve Toronto 000 103 000-4 9 3 lineman, from the practice roster. 

Minnesota 221 000 oox-5 11 0 CINCINNATI BENGALS-Oalmed Bernard
Cavanaugh 66
Candlottl, WeD• (3), Timlin (6) and Borders; Clark, linebacker, of!' waivers from the SeattleMorris, WIIJII (6), Aguilera (8) and Harper, Seahawks. 
Ortiz (8). W-Morris, 1·0. L-Candlottl, 0·1. 
Flanner 102 
NEW YORK JETs-Placed Mark Boyer, tight 
Sv-Agullera (1). 
end, on Injured reserve. Signed Pat Kelly, tight end.

Alumni 107
Game2 
HOCKBY 

Toronto 102 000 200-5 9 0 National Hockey League
MIDDeoota 001 001 000-2 5 1 
·Pangborn 112 
MONTRBAL CANADIBNS-Recalled PaulGuzman, Henke (6}, Ward (8) and Borders; DIPietro, forward, from Fredericton of the 

Tapanl, Bedrosian (7), Gulhrle (7) and Harper. 
American Hockey League. 

Stanford 118
W-Guzman, 1·0. L-Tapanl. 0·1. Sv-Ward 
SOCCER 
(1). 
Major Socc..-League 
BALTIMORE BLAST-Signed Doug Miller, forward, to a 1-year contract. COLLEGE 

Grace 118 
Morrissey 125 
JUNIAlTA-Named Dirk Remensnyder men's assistant basketball coach. NBVADA-Named John Savage assistant 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE basebaU coach and Ron Verlln men's part·
East time assistant basketbaU coach.

Individual Winner 
w L T Pet. pp PA Buffalo 5 1 0 .833 168 148 Miami 3 3 0 .500 120 122 
Joe Cranley 13:50
N.Y. Jets 3 3 0 .500 120 112 New England 2 4 0 .333 66 111 Indianapolis 0 6 0 .000 43 134 Central 
PARE,THEDA,SHAM

Final Team Scores 
Houston 4 1 0 .800 156 69 
E V E N 0 A S I S H E R A

Pittsburgh 3 2 0 .600 us 104 Oeveland 2 3 0 .400 72 69 
S I N G I N I N T H E R A I N

(after 3 meets) 
Onclnnatl 0 5 0 .000 68 136 
0 D D. R I R E. T R I IP L E West Denver 4 2 0 .667 128 107 
St. Ed's 30 
-EB.CRIN­

H A Z I N G S HAC KIL E S LA Raiders 3 3 0 .500 91 108 
Kansu Oty 4 2 0 .667 98 69 
E L V E S S L A Y S .A L E Seattle 3 3 0 .500 ttl 86 San Diego 1 5 0 .167 97 127 
Grace 12 
L I 0 N S H.ABL E 

Cavanaugh 10 
ECU.AWING PLIED NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
N E SlT L I N G C R 0 0 N S

Flanner 6
East 

IIIIIIIR AM S A L I E Nllll w L T Pet. pp PA 
STRUMS.ADES.ARI

Alumni 2
Wubtogton 6 0 0 1.000 189 65 Dallas 4 2 0 .667 115 113 
THESOUNDOFIUSIC 

N.Y. Giants 3 3 0 .500 95 93 
EASTIINEPT NATO

The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado
Philadelphia 3 3 0 .500 90 80 
W I T S T E N T S E L A N

Phoenix 3 3 0 .500 92 105 
Central Detroit 5 1 0 .833 128 119 Chicago 4 2 0 .667 97 111 Minnesota 2 4 0 .333 69 106 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
Green Bay 1 5 0 .167 83 115 Tampa Bay 1 5 0 .167 73 113 IN 
New Orleans 5 0 0 1.000 121 47 Atlanta 2 3 0 .400 62 88 LA Rams 2 3 0 .400 73 109 San Francisco 2 3 0 .400 95 69 
West JERUSALEM 
and
Sunday's Games 
Dallas 20, Green Bay 17 Houston 42, Denver 14 Miami 20, New England 10 

MEXICO CITY 
Detroit 24, Minnesota 20 New York Jets 17, Oeveland 14 Tampa Bay 14, PhUadelpbla 13 Seattle 13, Onclnnatl 7 Wuhlngton 20, Chicago 7 

Spring Semester 1992 
New York Giants 20, Phoenix 9 San Diego 21, Los Angeles Raldero 13 

Applications Due
Pittsburgh 21, lndlanapolls 3 OPBN DATE: Atlanta, Los Angeles Ramo, New Orleans, San Francloco Monday's Game 
October 15, 1991 
Kansas Oty 33, Bulfalo 6 
Sunday, Oct. 13 Cincinnati at Dallas, 1 p.m. Oeveland at Wuhlngton, 1 p.m. 

Indianapolis at Buffalo, 1 p.m. For more information please contact New Orleans at Philadelphia, I p.m. Phoenix at Minnesota, 1 p.m. Dr. Claudia Kselman 
San Diego at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. Miami at Kansu Oty, 4 p.m. Assistant Director, Internat ion a 1 Study Programs
Houston at New York Jets, 4 p.m. Atlanta at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 420 Main BuildingLos Angeles Raiders at Seattle, 7:30 p.rn OPBN DATil: Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Green Bay, New Bngland, Tampa Bay 239-5882 
Monday, Oct. 14 New York Giants at Pittsburgh, 9 p.m. 


Thursday, October 10, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Blue Jays tie ALCS at one; series moves to Toronto 
MINNEAI'Ol.IS (API-The Toronto Blue .Jays are rnady for sonw donw doings of their own. 
In Game 2 of the American League playoffs on Wednesday, Metrodome magic was simply no match for rookie Juan Guzman and thn Blue Jays' hard-throwing bullpen. 
Guzman pitched 5 2-3 strong innings as Toronto beat Minnesota 5-2 to even tlw best­of-? series at one game apiece and hn~ak the Twins' seven­game postseason winning streak in thnir high-decibel donw. 
Now, it's on to the Sky Dome for mon~ turf wars in baseball's lirst-1wer indoor playoll's. 
AftPr a day off. the snries shifts to Toronto for (;anw 3 on Friday night. Scott Erickson 
' 

(20-H) is scheduled to pitch for the Twins against left-hander Jimmy Key (16-12). 
"I hope we don't have to come back here," Toronto manager Cito Gaston said. "This is a tough place to win." 
The last time the Twins lost a postseason home gamH was in 1970, when they played at Metropolitan Stadium. But it really shouldn't eo me as a big surprise they lost to Toronto. 
Coming into Game 1 of the playoiTs, the Blue .Jays had won 10 of 12 games in the Metrodome and 12 of I H overall against the '1\vins. 
Minnesota was trying to tie the record for consecutive postsea­son vietories at home, set by the New York Yankees ( 1927 -36). 
"Sure we would have liked to 
··~,· 

,d.(• 
l 
.# 

, •. -··~· 
._\ 
win both games here," Toronto right fielder Joe Carter said. "But realistically this is what we were hoping for. We've played well against them this year." 
Guzman, 10-3 after his recall from Class AAA Syracuse on June 4, is becoming something of a Twins killer. He beat Minnesota starter Kevin Tapani for the third time this season. 
"Guzman pitched a fabulous game," Twins manager Tom Kelly said. "We got beat by the better pitchers today." 
The top of the order came up big for the Blue Jays. Devon White had two hits and scored three runs and Hoberto Alomar had two hits and scored a run. Each stole a base, too. 
"That's our job," White said. "I go out there trying to get to 

Kelly Gruber of the Blue Jays makes a putout versus Boston earlier this season. Yesterday the Jays defeated Minnesota to tie the series at one game apiece, with the series resuming Friday in Toronto. 
second. We had a young pitcher out there and needed to get his head right." 
The Twins looked like they would get off to a quick start again when Guzman walked two in the first inning, but the right-hander quieted the crowd by getting Kent Hrbek on a popup and striking out Chili Davis. 
"I used to be concerned about .Juan in a situation like that but not now," Gaston said. "You have to be patient with him." 
Kirby Puckett, Hrbek and Davis -the 3-4-5 batters ­went a combined 3-for-20 in the first two games. 
Toronto scored a run in the first when White led off with a single, stole second, took third on Alornar's sacrifice and carne around on Carter's single. 
The top of the order got the Blue Jays going again in the third when White doubled and moved to third on Alomar's in­field hit to third. 
Alornar stole second and both runners scored on Kelly Gruber's broken-bat single to right. Alornar, thrown out at the plate in Minnesota's 5-4 victory Tuesday night, made a nice head-first slide to avoid catcher Brian Harper's tag. 
Every time Guzman seemed to get a little rattled, the Blue Jays tried to break the momentum with a meeting on the mound. The capacity crowd of 54,H 16 tried to stir the Twins, but sometimes got bored waiting for Blue Jays to break up the gatherings. 
Minnesota scored in the third when Chuck Knoblauch singled. moved to second on a wild pitch and carne horne on Puckntt's single. 
Guzman, acquired from Los Angeles in 1987 for infielder Mike Sharperson, then retired seven straight before walking Knoblauch leading off the sixth. Knoblauch moved to second on Puckett's groundout and Davis drew a two-out walk. 
Ilarper pulled the '1\vins to 3-2 with an RBI single on a full­count pitch. chasing Guzman, who gave up two runs and four hits, struck out two and walked four. 
Tom Henke rnlieved and got Shane Mack on a comebacker to the mound. llenkn pitched 1 2-3 hitless innings and Duane Ward got the final six outs for the save . 
In two games, Toronto's bullpen has given up no runs and four hits in 8 2-3 innings with 10 strikeouts. 

SPORlS BRIEFS 
•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis dub is announcing its winter league. Anyone intersted in forming a thrne-man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654-8345. 

•RecSports 
meeting: A meeting will be held for all captains for men's interhall volleyball on October 10 at 4 p.m., worn ens interhall volleyball at 4:30 p.m., co-ree basketball at 5 p.m., refs for basketball at 5:30 p.m. All these meetings will he in the football auditorium. 

•Walk-on 
tryouts for the ND baskteball team will be held onTuesday,October 15 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the .J.A.C.C. All are welcome. 

•Water 
Polo Club dues must be paid by Thursday, October 


17. Each member attending the pre-game barbecue on Saturday must pay Butch or Rock $5 by this Saturday. 
•SMC Varsity Basketball tryouts will be October 15, from 6-8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Night Owls: 
If you like to stay up late, why not earn some money and have fun doing it? The Observer is looking for design editors for page layout on Macintosh. 
Call Jay Colucci at 283-1702 or 239-5303. 
There must be some way to avoid doing the same thing for the next forty years. You'll be getting your degree from a top school. And you're ready to find a great job. The question is: which job? And can it interest you for your whole career? At Andersen Consulting, it's our job to help clients do what they do. Only better. For you, that means opportunity and challenge. Part of our business is anticipating ANDERSENthe future. So come talk to us about yours. Find out more about a career with CONSULTING !JI1llUR ANDERSEN & CQ, S.C.Andersen Consulting. Where wegofrom here': AndeBen ConsuttJn& Is an equal opportunity employe<  
Informational Session-Thursday, October 10th 7:00 p.m. -Monogram Room Casual aHire is appropriate.  


"THE FIRST REALLY Goon FILM OF 1991. 
\n unprnhuahk l"IHlliC and dram.uic dd1gh1 You h:nt·n·r ~t·t·n .111~ th111g qu1lt hkt· 11 <lncl' .\round i' nnung You ha1 t' 10 \t"l" 1111' pltlllrr -("'"'"'" '1'~11.\11111!1 



RICHARD DREYFUSS HOI.LY Hl'NTER DANNY AIELLO LAliRA SAN GIACO~O .1:-.1> GENA ROWLANDS 
~­

&~!Cb~~ 
llnlMI'kllTh'"'u'Joll!lllli!\~~E\TI;up Pllfll ,~M RUPL~ ~"'M ,tt•~KUL,llillliu II.RIIIJDif1R~ llilli\Hl\111 frll\1111llil LUMII;[~Illlil 1\JII;E\ln\lllJI ·tll(liU\U" •·;Jl~l'lk~\11 ...~:.llltlmlt~N\b~l -:t,JJI£\R\1 _l.l~EII'lllll !1\il\1 \l:i..:a, ~~lit.~\ ""~ ~Ull ~lmR ~lillil ~··~ l\J\llll\~1\,\JI(,IIIfM 1\1 · · · t~; 
IRI-=~~ 1. ···n~·~KUL•llllll JL'~~UIIlit~ ~~~ 
-~-­

page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1991 
Mutumbo signs with Nuggets but top picks won't be easy to sign 
(AP)The signing of the NBA's top three draft picks won't be as easy as 1-2-3 even though No. 4 pick Dikembe Mutombo has signed with the Denver Nuggets. Just ask the agents. 
Team presidents and player agents broke out their calcula­tors again after the 7-foot-2 center out of Georgetown signed a contract Tuesday re­portedly worth $12 million over five years. 
Class 
> > 
continued from page 11 
NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO, USC AND TENN. 
JAY X1578 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD WAY!! Brady x1191 
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP!!! 
TWO HOT BABES NEED PIIT TIX. 1 Student 2GA's 
If you can help, call Je<!nne and Colleen at x2670 
I need two USC GA's so my parents can bring me back to school!! Please HELP! I don't want to live at home!!! Call Jeanne x2670 -leave message 
Will trade 2 Pitt, USC, or Navy GAs for 2 Tenn. GAs Dean, 287-9663 
I HAVE TWO PIIT TICKETS!!! YOU WANT 'EM?? CALL KEITH AT #1560 
Save 
a life. 
Learn 
CPR. 
+ 
NO GIMMICKS-~ EXTRA INCOME NOW!~ 

All 27 teams have started training camp, but 13 first­round picks are still unsigned by their NBA teams, including the first three, Charlotte's Larry Johnson, Kenny Anderson of New Jersey and Billy Owens of Sacramento. 
Steve Endicott, Johnson's agent, disputed the $12 million figure and said Wednesday in a telephone interview from Dallas that Mutombo actually signed 

ENVELOPE SlUFFING -$600 . $800 every week . Free Delaill: SASE to 

... 
Neceuery Rouglvwaa (PG-13) 4-45 7:00 9•15 Dec:elwd (PG-13) 4:30 7"15 9;3() The Rllher King (R) 5:00 8:00 

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<~<<<<<< 
<<<< NEED USC TIX < STUDS ORGAS < 
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<< 
<<<< '91 ALUM LIVING LOCALLY YOUR BOOKLET WILL BE SAFE CALL SEAN@ 273-1601 LEAVE MESSAGE IF NOT HOME 
I NEED USC TIX BAD!! CALL KEITH #1560 
PERSONAL 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
Oh, nooooo!!! What are you doiiinnnnggg?!!! 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 PIIT TIX Kathleen @ x3726 x4132. 
All Night Vigil at the Grotto 

(to save John McKee's soul) Sunday, October 12th, 11PM B.Y.O.B. 
I am the Lizard Child, and I've got an Oedipus complex that'll drive you wild. 
Native offers Spanish classes 
Beatriz Call 272 97 13 
stronger than burt 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lnternat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Roor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free1991 Student 
for $13.7 million over five years. The Hornets have offered Johnson more than $3 million a year, or $15.2 million, over five years, according to team presi­dent Spencer Stolpen. 
Stolpen said the signing of Mutombo would quicken nego­tiations with Johnson. 
"It's right in line with what we're talking about," he said. "It was appropriate, reflecting where he was drafted and where he was.... It's certainly in line with the numbers we have been offering Larry Johnson." 
Stolpen said Mutombo's sign­ing will cause bigger problems for picks 2 and 3 because the Hornets' offer has always been larger than what Mutombo re­ceived. 
"I think 2 and 3 will be much more difficult. I hope you will see 1 go next," he said. 
Endicott is seeking a contract for Johnson that is significantly larger than the 5-year, $15 million deal signed by last year's top pick, Derrick Coleman of the New Jersey Nets. 
"I don't understand why he would say that (about the top pick signing first)," Endicott said. "They are offering basi­cally what Coleman's deal was. 

EAR CANDY WVFI640am presents 
The Jericho Sesssions 
A 73 minute CD featuring 19 original songs from 19 campus bands. All precedes benefit the South Bend Runaway Shelter. 
ON SALE NOW!! AT LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK 
DOCTOR STAT, DOCTOR LOVE HAS FOUND A NEW VICTIM; BEN JEHRING HAS BEEN INFECTED BY A CALLIPYGIAN. 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11 am to 3 am 
The Only Alternative Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234-4015 
WVFI640am PRESENTS 

THE CONNELLS with special guest 
7 Simons Where: Theodore's When: Thursday, Oct. 10 
9:00pm 

(doors open at 8:30) tickets on sale at Lafortune Info desk for $5.at door for$6. 
Are you chuckling at me? I heard you chuckling! 
NEEDED: ride to Purdue this Fri. or Sat. Oct.11-12 will help pay for gas please call x4943 Karen THE CONN ELLS 
TICKET GIVE AWAYI! Win one pair of tickets to see The Connells, Thursday night, Oct. 10 at Theodore's. HOW? Listen to WVFI 640am 
Sunday thru Thursday. Its just that simple. 
I need 2 GAs to Pitt! If you want to sell call X1253 
ARTS AND LEITERS CAREER DAY TODAY 12-4 P.M., CCE. BE THERE I 
ARTS AND LEITERS CAREER DAY TODAY 12-4 P.M., CCE. BE THERE! 
Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Bridget X3778 
AMSTER! KRATMIESTER! We'll take care of the little things, you please get well soon!!!!! We miss you!!! Hurry home!!! 
Rich, 

Well, I'm sorry I've been so silent lately, but I'm back. 
The only thing that's been stretching recently is my imagination. I think you've blown this whole head size thing way out of proportion. 
Lame comeback, I admit. But there's not too much to work with. 
With Love, JM 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOLLY 
Thanks for everything-this weekend will be awesome. I hope that the 18th will be memorable. You are the best. 
Love, 
Katie 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISiN 
..AITN: NY AND NJ.. Ll Bus wNCR has seats avail. We'll also stop in NJ. Lv 10/19 rtn1 0/25 
only $110. Reserve NOW! Joni 3793 Janice 2639 
000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB We will be going to Dan O'Day's Ballroom (instead of class) on Thursday, Oct. 10. We will meet at the MAIN CIRCLE at 8:15pm. Dress is semi-formal, and the cost is $3.00 per person. 
ONLY 1 DAY LEFT UNTIL THE BIG BIRTHDAY! 
NEEDED: RIDE TO JERSEY FOR BREAK! HELP MEl X3384 
Happy 21st Birthday Elizabeth lnduldge yourself and have a ball, but save a little cheesecake for me. Love, Rand 
Dan and Carrie sittin' in a tree .... 
HAPPY 21st-1 , SANDI the NAZI SANDBOX! a few words of wisdom: 
1. 
Excuse me, but do hear a-in the distance? 

2. 
It has nothing to do with intelligence -you can still do it if your head's cut off! -Yeah, but you won't know you're enjoying it! 

3. 
While you were at the Michigan game, you could have been scoring ... 

4. 
Don't rally or you might lose an arm! 

5. 
12th floor library-hmmmmm! with love, Peach and Lavender 


ARTS AND LEITERS CAREER DAY TODAY 12-4 P.M., CCE. BE THERE! 
JOE, viva Roma: I hope you're making architectural history over there. Sappy and I are doing ok without you, although we often lament and cry out in agony over your absence. Have you found my tall, dark Italian stud yet? (Keep working on it.) Be good and WRITE. Know that we love and miss you ... monicababe 
NEED RIDE 2 COLO 4 OCT BREAK-CALL ASAP-CELYNN 2845237. 
JESUS IS LOST/STOLEN 
A 3-d picture of Jesus is missing and my R.A. is pissed. Return it to 316 Flanner-no questions asked-and I will be spared. God wants to go home, please help Him. 
IAMERICAN <gCANCER~SOCIElY~ 

JOE CLARK 
Travel Catalog! 
J.]J£[P[p)? 8ll01$ 
~u'.:l.1fillJ])£t{ 
(Whose story was depictated in LEAN ON ME)  
Thursday October 1Oth  
b..  7:00 p.m. Stepan Ce~ter  
LOVE MOM, DAD,  ~Admission $3.00 for Students  
SHANNAH AND~  ~  General Admission $5.00  
MATIHEW  ..,..  




Thursday, October 10, 1991 
The Observer page 15 
.. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUMKER 
JAY HOSLER 



©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8701 
40 Loses weight 6 Enter furtively44 Man from Mecca (2 wds.) 
CROSSWORD 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
8 p.m. & 10:30 p.m. Film, "Arachnaphobia." Cushing Auditorium. 
8:10 p.m. "The Crucible." Directed by Father Arthur Harvey, Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and TheatrP.. 
-... 

LECTURES 
Friday 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns, "Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the U.S." Room 124, CSC. Brown bag or soup and bread for $1. Sponsored by the CSC. 
4:15 p.m. Hibernian Lecture: "A Sporting People: The Culture of Irish American Sports," Randy Roberts. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 
7 p.m. Lecture: Joe Clark, New Jersey school administrator, whose career inspired "Lean On Me." Stepan Center. Sponsored by SUB. 
8 p.m. Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Lecture 
1 Meditators 45 The devil 7 Station 42 Lift up 
Series: Canonicity and its Critics: "The Canon as Practical
7 Drink taken after 47 Store sign 8 Dutch painter 
43 Peaceful 

Question and Gateway to the Theoretical Abyss," Wendell V. Harris,
a drink 48 Nod off 9 Former pro 1 eague 46 Metric 
-

13 Church in Rome 49 American league 10 Nitwit 52 Hindu deity Pennsylvania State University. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 14 Natural environment team (abbr.) 11 Rome, The-City 
53-board 

16 Former 50 Part of MPH 12 Show joy 
54 -order

17 City in California 51 Patron 13 Moving like a 
55 Whip mark 

18 Gives a bad review 53 African capital horse 
57-part

19 Chess pieces 55 Take a bride 15 Having a label 59.Ralph Kramden's MENU 21 Overly proper 56 Persist at, as a 20 Toupee 
vehicle 

person point 26 Important person Z2 Part of TGIF 58 From Lhasa Z7 -Andronicus Notre Dame 23 Kith and ----60 Religious recluse 28 Ascended 
Top Round of Beef
24 Horse 61 Flatter 29 "Trivial Pursuit" 25 Nuremburg no 62 Conditions edition Baked Sole with Rice Dressing 27 Detroit athlete 63 Cuddle 31 Feather's partner Manicotti 29 Ticket sales for 33 Lou's partner 
an event DOWN 36 Vienna's river 30 Dessert item 37 Schoolroom need 32 Defamed 1 Sea marrmal 38 Short, sleeveless 34 Louisville slugger 2 Kitchen device garment 35 ----Vat-sen 3 Tennis match parts 39 Becomes due, as a 36 Propriety of 4 Gad's son note 
behavior 5 Highway part 40 Rutgers' river . 
so on't miss: ARACHNOPHOBIA 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER10
Don't miss JOE CLARK 
8:00 & 10:30 PM 
"Fight One More Round" 
CITY SLICKERS 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11
Thursday, October 10 
SATURDAY,OCTOBER12 

... 
8:00 & 10:30 PM
7:00PM Stepan Center 
Admission $3.00 for Students/ $5.00 for Non-Students 
Tickets available at Lafortune Info Desk ... 
(The man whose story was depicted in LEAN ON ME) 
.. ...~'"" ... .. ... .. ... .... ... .. ... . ' . '. .. '. '.. . .. ... .. .. ' ......'.. .... .. ... .. .. .......' .. •' ....
~· 
,. 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, October 10, 1991 
Men's soccer beats Valpo 1-0 
Dillman collects lone goal as Bader notches a shutout 
even better, however, as junior Brendan Dillman's second-half goal proved to be all the Irish would need to collect their 21st 
consecutive  win  over  
Valparaiso, dating back  to  
1977.  

After Kevin Pendergast's shot pulled Crusader goalie away from the net, Dillman collected the rebound and pushed his fourth goal of the season into the empty net to provide the winning margin. 
Despite collecting only one goal at Valparaiso, the Irish of-. fense showed dramatic im­provement on the road trip. 
"With a young team the last thing that clicks is offense," Meyer noted. "Now we know each what to expect from each other on the field and that has resulted in goals." 
The defense has been equally impressive on the road trip, al­lowing only two goals in four games. Junior sweeper Mario Tricoci stopped several one-on­one attacks from Crusader star Brian Thiel and freshman goalie Bert Bader kept Valparaiso out of the net to preserve the sixth Irish shutout in the last eight games. 
Bader now leads the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a sparkling 
0.86 goals against average. 
The Irish return home boast­ing a 6-3-1 overall record and a 3-1-1 MCC record, good enough to earn the number seven rank­ing in the Great Lakes Region and to keep them in the hunt for the conference title. 
They will have a chance to notch another conference vic­tory Sunday afternoon as Butler brings the Great Lakes Region's number-ten ranking to Alumni Field for a crucial MCC battle. 

Goalkeeper is a big part of women's success story 

By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

In 1990, the Notre Dame men's soccer team didn't collect a win on the road, but it has been a different story so far this season. 
Yesterday's 1-0 win over Valparaiso was the team's fourth consecutive road victory after an early season loss at Saint Louis. 
"We played some big teams early and got a few wins under are belt," commented senior captain Kenyon Meyer, "and that gave us the confidence to go into these games knowing we could win." 
After scoring. 14 goals in the previous three games, another explosion was expected from the Irish offense. Valparaiso's defense, however, shut down the Irish for most of the game. 
Notre Dame's defense was 
By BRIAN DINEEN 
Sports Writer 
The 1991 version of the Irish women's soccer team can credit a big part of its success to goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga. 
The team has enjoyed a very successful season. posting an 8­0-2 record to date. Coach Chris Petrucelli sees Lodyga's play as a major factor in this record. "She is a major contributor -a big reason for our success," said Petrucelli. 
Lodyga, a junior from Mission Viejo, CA, was originally recruited by former coach Dennis Grace. 
"It was funny-a teammate of mine in high school sent a tape of herself here and they ended up recruiting me from what they saw in the tape," said Lodyga. 
Pirates beat 
Braves 5-1, 
take 1-0 lead 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-Until Justice homered, the Braves' best threat came in the fourth. It lasted only a moment. 
Lemke led off with a grounder through first baseman Gary Redus' legs for an error. When the ball rolled into the right-field corner, however, Lemke also made a mistake. 
.Just like Toronto's Roberto Alomar, who was thrown out at the plate in Game 1 of the AL playoffs with the Blue Jays down 3­0, Lemke foolishly tried to make something happen. A perfect relay from Bonilla to Bell to Buechele caught Lemke, and the error was compounded when Pendleton followed with a single and .Justice singled, but were stranded. 
In last year's playoffs, Bonds and Bonilla each were thrown out at third. Call it experience or whatever, but this time it was the Braves who played like postseason rookies, while the Pirates played like the team with baseball's best record, which they had -98-64. 

"I was the only player re­cruited as a goalkeeper, so I knew what I was getting into. It was a great opportunity for lots of playing time right away." 
She has been the starter the past two seasons, but it is only in the last half year that she has really come into her own. 
"We've seen a big difference in years," said Petrucelli. "Since February she has spent a lot of time in the weight room as well as concentrating heavily on technical training over the summer. She came into this season much more confident." 
While the training for goal­keepers differs from field play­ers in terms of drills and en­durance, the work is qot easy. "I would have four practice sessions -the two regular ones as well as two goalkeeping ses­sions-during the preseason," 

Michelle Lodyga 

said Lodyga. "The focus is on jumping, throwing, catching, and diving, as well as field skills. The biggest key is devel­oping soft hands." 
Obviously, the extra work has paid off for Michelle. Her 1991 statistics include a stellar 0.35 goals allowed average with seven shutouts in the eight games she has started. .Just this week she was named the top keeper in the MCC. 


Lodyga attributes much of her personal improvement as well as the team's success to Coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"He's picky on tactics, but lets us play our own kind of game," she said. "He's the first coach I've had that has really understood the techniques of goalkeepers. The attention he gave me over the summer with countless one-on-one drills has raised the level of my game." 
Lodyga, who didn't start playing soccer until she was 12, has coached at various camps over the past few years. Her main involvement is with Soccer-Plus, a nationwide goal­keeping school. 
"I learn a great deal just by watching and coaching," she said. "I might want to get into coaching someday." · 
Her competitive edge shows as she continues to improve with timP. 
"I love the challenge, love to win. The situation lwre is simi­lar to what I was a part of in high school. 
"When I arrived we WPI'P on the building level. Since then we have moved from a regional team up to a team to be reck­oned with nationally," she con­tinued. 
"She's very, very solid," said Petrucelli. "She doesn't get the credit the women who score goals do. but she's just as im­portant." 
This is obvious as the unde­feated Irish eontinue to roll. 

Montana to have surgery 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­.Joe Montana, the three-time Super Bowl MVP who has been sidelined since training camp, finally consented to undergo el­bow surgery Wednesday night. 
After two days of criss-cross­ing the country hoping to find an alternative, Montana, 35, has decided that surgery is the best option to repair the torn tendon in his right elbow that has kept him off the playing field. 
"Joe personally visited at least two other physicians, besides MRis, where he was physically examined, and it was Joe's de­cision after receiving (team physician) Dr. Dillingham's, his team's input as well as the other physicians he visited, that it was no longer necessary for him to go elsewhere," 49ers president Carmen Policy said during a hastily arranged news conference Wednesday at team headquarters. 
" ... Ultimately it was .Joe's de­cision to go ahead and do what he is going to do this evening." 
The surgery, which is de­scribed as having an 80 percent rate of success, will be similar to the operation that ended the career of former Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw. He was 35, too. 
The procedure is expected to take 45 minutes, and Montana is scheduled to be released Thursday afternoon. 
"There is no suggestion at this point in time that there is any damage to the ligaments," Policy said. "This is a tendon situation.... It is nothing more than (Dr. Dillingham) antici­pated the problem to be a month or so ago." 
Dillingham will head a team of three surgeons who will per­form the operation at a Bay Area hospital. Dr. Gary Fanton and Dr. Warren King will also participate. 
The 49ers have scheduled a news conference Thursday that would allow Dr. Dillingham to describe the procedure and evaluate the operation. 
"The overall feeling (on the 49ers) basically seems to be that as a result of the surgery .Joe will not be able to return this season," Policy said. " ... The prognosis at this point. and that is a very qualified prognosis because the surgery has not been conducted yet, is that Joe should be able to be back in full stride, maybe even stronger, next season than he was when he reported to train­ing camp." 
After the 49ers recommended surgery over the weekend, Montana sought the opinions of two other elbow specialists, Dr. James Bennett in Houston on Monday and Dr. Ben Kibler in Lexington. Ky., on Tuesday. 

.. 
... 



