
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991
VOL XXIII NO 95 
• THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING N<;>TRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. says no date set for ground fighting 
I> IIAll HAN, Saudi Arabia(API -Tlw U.S. military said Sunday that no datn has been snt for an allied ground offensive in the Persian Gulf War. and Washington said it would reject any Soviet peace plan calling for a ceasn-fire. 
llllrn in Saudi Arabia, Anw ri ean and Iraqi patrois clashnd along the border in seven snparate engagements bntwenn 5 a.m. and 10 a.m. Sunday. 
During one prn-dawn skir­mish, an Amerkan Apache at­tack hnlicoptnr firing hellfire rnissilHs destroytld two American military vehicles, killing two solditlrs and wound­ing six. thH U.S. Command said. 
It was the worst "friendly firn" accident since .Jan. 29, whnn a U.S. warplane hit a Mariml rnconaissancn vehicle during a furious tank battle along the Saudi-Kuwait border and stWtln Anwrican soldiers wnre killmJ. 
In two of the clashes Sunday, 20 Iraqi troops, whosn positions wnrn overwhnlmed by U.S. firnpower, surrnndnred and walked into Saudi Arabia with Apache helicopters guarding them from overhead, the U.S. Command said. 
weapons, and that's when we just herded them back with the Apaches," Marine Brig. Gen. Hichard Neal told a military briefing in Hiyadh. "It's kind of unique how we captured those prisoners." 
British military officials admitted Sunday that a bomb from an HAF Tornado veered off course into the western Iraqi town of Fallouja during an attack on a bridge last week. Iraq has claimed that 130 people were killed and 78 wounded when the bomb hit an apartment building and an out­door market on Thursday. 
The British said there was no evidence to support the Iraqi claims of large-scale civilian casualties, but their investiga­tion was continuing. 
If the probe confirms the Iraqi claim, it would be a big propaganda victory for Baghdad, which repeatedly has claimed that allied warplanes are killing hundreds of Iraqis and that the raids are targeting civilians. 
Speculation continued, meanwhile, about when the al­lied forees will augment their non-stop air attacks with a ground or amphibious offen­sive. 
"They dropped their The French Foreign Minister, 
1991-92 CLASS OFFICER CANDIDATES 11!:1 
Sophomore Class (13 Tickets) 
Stacey Reed Nicole Rizzo James Mcintyre James McMahon 
Herberto Calves Angela Gugle Oliver Gibson Brett Mears 
Mike Hughes Jim Sperduto Jim Bonalsky Lisa Mahan 
Kevin Jerich 
Kenya Johnson 
Dave Hoeffel 
Stacy Jones 
Katherine Eichel berger Rob Ganz Dan Fagan Meghan Schenck Bryan Scovlar Emily Lieu Marcial Sandoval Amelie Gallagher 
Faust Capobianco Shaheen Goldrick Sean O'Reilly Dan Connolly Anne Pierson Katie Fitzgerald Brian Harr 

David Reinke Ellen Hujarski Jack Howard 
Richard Christianson Cathy Miller 
Steve Camilleri Tanya Bulakowski Jay Parsons Mike Palmer Sarah Lowthorp Lara Dickey William Kruse Joe Barone 
Tim Callahan Andy Scarcella Mike Meade Bob Burke Caroline Schippereit Carla Salucci May Morales ............. ~i~~K@!IY., ...,.,.,.,,..,:... 
Junior Class (3 Tickets) 
Dave Cathcart Bill Mcintyre Andrea Auyer Daniel Milton Tom Fellrath Emmanuel Bidegain 
Jennie o•Hea Lloyd Ad9J.!1S 
Senior Class (1 Ticket) Jennifer Switzer Sean O'Neill Jill Beth Hayes Tim Thornton 
All classes will hold elections on Monday, February 25. If run-offs are needed, they will be held Wednesday, February 27. All voting will take place In the dormitories. Off-Campus students 
may vote at the LaFortune Information Desk. 


Shawn DuffY Sonia Miller Kathleen Vogt • Robbie Hennings
.•.•.;-..•.,•:•,•:•:•:•.~·<·V.•:Y.•,•,•,•,·~······ • • ~ .••;.;.;.,.,• •...•;.;.;.;.;.; 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
• 
British bomb missed target/ page 6 

• 
Bush: end is near/ page 7 • Protesters kill 10/ page 7 

• 
Oil spill damage I page 7 



Roland Dumas, said Sunday that the allies have already set a date for the ground assault. "We are on the eve or the pre­eve of the ground offensive for the liberation of Kuwait," Dumas said in a radio interview in Paris, without saying exactly when the attack would occur. 
In another report, The Los Angeles Times said Sunday that the United States plans to launch a ground and sea attack this week if Iraq does not sur-
JPW celebration 
·render or agree to a 
"diplomatic deal" in the next 
three days. The newspaper 
quoted unidentified U.S. mili­
tary officers in Washington. 
The report also quoted a se­
nior officer as saying the allies' 
monthlong air war has cut the 
combat effectiveness of Iraqi 
President Saddam Hussein's 
army virtually in half. U.S. offi­
cials have said in the past that 
50 percent destruction was 
their goal before sending 
ground forces into Kuwait. 
The Pentagon refused to 
comment on the report. 
"Heretofore, we have not made 
those kinds of predictions or 
disclosed that type of opera­
tional plans," Capt. Sig Adams 
said in Washington. 
When reporters asked Neal 
about the French report, he 
said it was false. 
"No, there is no date set at 
this time," he told the Riyadh 
briefing. 
If a "diplomatic deal" is 
struck in the next three days, it 
will probably emerge from ne­
gotiations involving the Soviet 
Union and Iran. 
After allied forces said they 
would not guarantee his safety 
if he flew to Moscow, Iraqi 
Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz 
drove to Iran on Sunday, en route to the Soviet capital and a meeting Monday with PrBsident Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Before leaving Tehran, Aziz met with his Iranian counter­part, Ali Akbar Velayati, who reportedly returned Saturday from meetings in Moscow. 
Soviet officials were initially encouraged by Iraq's offer on Friday to withdraw from Kuwait, but they later said the many conditions Baghdad at­tached to the offer make it unacceptable. 
Moscow has not put forth any peace plan. 
However, Velayati said Soviet proposals resemble Iran's, which reportedly call for an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait, removal of U.S.-led gulf forces, and stationing of Islamic peacekeeping forces as a buffer between Kuwait and Iraq. 
Secretary of State James Baker said Sunday he is confi­dent the Soviets still support the anti-Iraq coalition, but he also said any peace plan that emerges must demand that Iraq withdraw quickly and un­conditionally. 
"There is nothing to be lost by talking ... and if that will re­sult in the witdrawal of Iraq 
see IRAQ I page 5 
The OlselvertMarguerite SctlrclR> 
Father Daniel Jenky (right), Father Monk Malloy (center), and Brother Dennis Meyers presided at the Junior Parents' Weekend mass, Saturday, at the JACC. 
Morrissey leads Iceberg quarterfinalists 
By CHRIS WILKINSON News Writer 

Tomorrow's quarter-finals of the Iceberg Debates will match the eight remaining teams to debate the resolution: ."The United States should substan­tially increase its social welfare system." 
The top four teams -Morris­sey, Grace 2, St. Edward's and Lyons-have the home field advantage for the 9 p.m. debates. Top-ranked Morrissey, led by captain Steve Keefe, will take the negative position against No. 8 Pangborn, lead by John Mulhern. 
Second-ranked Grace 2, led by John Albers, will hold the negative position against the seventh team, Flanner 1, cap­tained by Rich Delevan. No. 3 St. Edward's, captained by Rob Pritchard, will take the negative position against sixth-ranked Knott, led by Meg Kowalski. 
Karen Ilohberger and her fourth-ranked Lyon's team will take the the negative position against fifth-ranked Flanner 2, lead by Doug Radtke. 
The four winning teams will move on to the semi-finals on February 26. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The kinder, gentler side ofJPW 
JPW was truly the in­
credible experience that everyone said it would be. It was a time to gather together with your parents and the parents of the people you love and tell 


really embarrassing John O'Brien stories about each other. Managing Editor 
Aside from being a forum for airing out the family's dirty laundry, JPW provided an opportunity to tell our parents know how much we love them, and to tell them what we've really been doing for the past three years. 
However, JPW had much more to offer than just the sappy, sentimental stuff. In fact, some of the weekend's lighter moments had a most profound effect on me. 
For instance, there's the opportunity to walk into Commons and try and convince the bouncer that you are indeed a 25-year-old junior. It doesn't help much when your J.D. identifies you as Walter Payton and your Mom keeps begging the bouncer to "Let Skippy in." 
Then there's the opportunity to slow dance with your mom at the Friday night cocktail gala. While it is a nice opportunity for mother-son bonding, it can also turn into a wicked Oedipal nightmare. 
The food at all of the meals is simply in­credible. Catered by University Food Services, the meals featured many delicious items including (I'm serious) "Bananas Foster," which is, of course, vanilla ice cream and banana topping. 
This raises two questions. First, who is this Foster fella and why does he get a dessert named after him? If I put bananas over say, Rocky Road ice cream, can I call them "Bananas O'Brien?" 
Also, when was the last time you saw "Bananas Foster" in the dining halls? The closest thing I could find was "Welsh Rarebit" and my favorite, "O'Brien Potatoes." 
While the food at the meals was excellent, the speeches provided a wonderful source of entertainment. For instance, there was Monk Malloy calling our class "the most female class in the history of Notre Dame." 
Frankly, I DON'T THINK I'M FEMALE AT ALL. In fact, I'm just as manly as any God­fearin', flag-lovin', Saddam-hatin', beer­drinkin', crotch-scratchin' American male should be. I was so angered by his remark that if I had seen Monk after the dinner, I would have hit him with my purse. 
The dorm luncheons were a chance to meet the parents of all my well-behaved neighbors. It was interesting to see the people responsible for spawning the guy who can belch the alphabet and wear the same pair of underwear for three weeks. 
In the end, Junior Parents Weekend was just as I had always dreamed it would be. I was able to have fun with my parents-do and say things in front of them that I can't believe I did-and also get sappy with them. I learned a lot from them, as I'm sure they did from me. We laughed, we cried, it was better than "Cats." But best of all, there was "Bananas Foster." 
Today's  Staff:  
News Paul Pearson Ann Marie Hartman  Production Michelle Wood Jacquie Calhoun  Graphics Michael F. Muldoon Jake Frost  
Accent Mi -::hael Whitman Shonda Wilson Meredith McCullough Sports Rich Kurz Scoreboard Rolando de Aguiar  Systems Amalia Meier Fritz Valsaint Viewpoint Jay Colucci OaveCerto  Photography Todd Flint Business Colleen Gannon ")enisse M·landais Circulation Bill O'Roukrke Man Novak  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Man at Bush's church demands peace .KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine -A 
man at a Sunday church service attended by President Bush stood and demanded the United States "stop this massacre, stop this bombing" of Iraq.The incident began when Pastor Patricia Adams asked members of the congregation if they had any special concerns to 

express. 'We need to think 
of the 18 million people of Iraq, half of them are children under the age of 15 years old," Schuchardt stood and said. "We must think what it means to be bombed every day by 2,000 planes and cruise missiles."The man, who identified himself as Massachusetts lawyer John Schuchardt, was silenced only after police officers moved into the church and stood by his side. 
Judge sets $9 trillion bond 
•BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Ajudge criticized by the mayor for being too soft on habitual lawbreakers raised a 
are 
OF INTEREST 
•Daily 
Shillelagh calendars for Spring 1991 available free at the Information Desk in LaFortune. 

•Auditions 
for the Notre Dame Communications & Theatre Production of "The Good Woman of Setzuan" will be held tonight and Tuesday in the Laboratory Theatre of Washington Hall at 7 p.m. 

•Seniors 
interested in a year of volunteer work can meet with a representative from the Diocesan Volunteer of New York program, which involves a year of teaching in the Bronx, will be on campus Tuesday and Wednesday. Come ask Uanne Stevenson any questions you may have about volunteer work. 

•Past 
transfer students interested in applying for the 1991 executive transfer orientation committee may now 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 15, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSE INDEX  
222.37 Million  201.29  •  2.37  
S&P COMPOSITE  
369.06  ..  4.84  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
2,934.65  ..  57.42  
PRECIOUS METALS  

GOLD -t $4.10 to $ 364.40oz. SILVER • 4.3¢ to$ 3.780/oz. 
-------------------------.. 
.Monday, February 18, 1991 
Cloudy , chance of rain, with a high of 44 and lows in the upper 20s. Tuesday, variably cloudy, flurries, high of 36. 
TEMPERATURES: 
-~i.J'~····~  AthensCityAtlanta  57H 40  39L 29  
Baghdad  59  36  
Boston  38  18  
';~·}4@/ t(/) J'' ,,,,,.,. ,,., ..,,,_.,  ChicagoDallas-Ft Worth  4276  2946  
Denver  51  32  
Detroit  36  25  
Honolulu  81  66  
Houston  72  64  
Indianapolis  36  31  
London  43  34  
Los Angeles  68  53  
Madrid  45  32  
Miami Beach  67  4 7  
Moscow  21  21  
New Orleans  73  50  
New York  38  23  
Paris  41  28  
Philadelphia  40  23  
Portland. Ore.  52  41  
Rome  43  27  
St. Louis  46  37  
San Francisco  61  51  
South Bend  4 0  1 6  
·  Tokyo  48  43  
Washington. D.C.  42  28  

theft suspect's bond to $9 trillion, nearly three times the national debt. Mayor Richard Arrington complained at a City Council meeting last week that District Judge Jack Montgomery repeatedly enabled suspects with serious criminal backgrounds to be released by setting low bonds. Arrington cited Isaac Peterson, 34, who he said has been arrested seven times since July on charges of burglary and receiving stolen property. Each time, bond ranged from $500 to $5,000. But for someone with his criminal history it should be higher, the mayor said. 

WORLD 
Sandinista promises probe 
•MANAGUA, Nicaragua -An official from the Sandinista-controlled security police Sunday promised a full-scale probe into the slaying of former Contra chief Enrique Bermudez, whose death cast doubt on govern­ment assurances for the safety of other rebels who laid down their arms. But a right-wing radio station blamed the slaying of Bermudez late Saturday on Sandinista sympathizers, some of whom cheered the news of the killing. Officials said they had no suspects and no one immediately claimed responsibility for the killing. 
be pick up applications at the student government office from Barb. The deadline for submittal is Wednesday. Please return them to Barb by this date so we may set in­terview times ASAP. If you have questions, please contact Craig at 232-6933. 
•sequicentennial 
committee members have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Call Katie at 283-1297 or Jen at 288-3354 if you have any questions. 

•CPR 
recertification will be available on Saturday at 12 noon at the Rockne Memorial, Room 218, for any indi­viduals certified in Adult, Infant and Child, BLS CPR, and Standard First Aid. Your present certification must be current, or have only expired within the last 30 days to take this challenge. Call 239-5297 to sign up. Cost is $3. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On February 18: 
• 
In 1546: Martin Luther, leader of the Protestant Reformation in Germany, died. 

•In 
1564: The artist Michelangelo died in Rome. 

• 
In 1861: Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president of the Confederate States of America in Montgomery, Ala. 

• 
In 1885: Mark Twain's "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" was published in the U.S. for the first time. 

• 
In 1930: The ninth planet of our solar system, Pluto, was discovered. 

• 
In 1984: Italy and the Vatican signed a revised concordat under which Roman Catholicism ceased to be the state religion of Italy! 



-
The Observer 

Monday, February 18, 1991 page 3 



Professor: Gulf War related to Israeli occupation of Palestine 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
The Iraqi oceupation of Kuwait and the Israeli oeeupa­tion of Palestinian territories are interdependent. and one eannot be completely solved un­less the other is solved, said Hagai Busailah. a professor of English at Indiana University at Kokomo. 
The war. Busailah argued to the Michiana Coalition for Peacn and .I ustiee Saturday, eliminates the need for any dis­eussion on the Palestinian issue. "President Bush won't have to worry about the Palestinians because they no long11r have any strong allies," he said. 
Busailah was born in Palestine. but left after the crll­ation of Israel. lie has lived in thn United States for the past 30 years. 
lie admitted that, before the (;ulf War, them had been an in­cn~ase in discussion for resolv­ing the problem in thn occupied territories, but he argued that the U.S. was never interested in Palnstinian grievanc11s. 
lie said that "previous to th11 invasion of Kuwait. the U.S. su pportml tlw Israeli proposal, which would eliminate Palestinian self-determination. The Israeli proposal only allows for Palestinians to vote in local elections, but not at the na­tional level." 
The heart of the problem, ac­cording to Busailah, lies in the racist attitudes of Americans towards Arabs. He noted that "Americans are brainwashed into thinking that Arabs are crazy, yet no one studies Arabic culture. The only Americans who study the Arabic language are C.I.A. agents." 
Hegarding the war itself, Busailah feels that the U.S. is going way beyond United Nations resolution 660, which orders Iraq out of Kuwait either voluntarily or by force. He argued that the original aim of the U.S. was destroying Iraq as a regional power. not freeing Kuwait or defending Saudi Arabia. 
lie noted that the U.S. am­bassador to Iraq told the Iraqis that the U.S. would not involve itself if an invasion of Kuwait occurred. After the invasion, the U.S. pushed for a U.N. reso­lution allowing the use of force to drive Iraq from Kuwait. Now, he noted, the U.S. is sys-
CLUB COLUMN 
FEBRUARY 4, 1991 

The ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will hold its 3rd Annual 
Dance marathon on Saturday, Feb. 23 at University Park Mall. The three persons raising the most money will be eligible for the following prizes: a 12" TV, a walkman, and a $15 gift certificate to Camelot Music. The club meets Wednesdays at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center 
The Math Club will meet on Tuesday, Feb. 19th at 6:10p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune. Elections will be held, refreshments served, and internships discussed. At 7:30, the Math Club will be 
honored guests at the women's basketball game. 
Students for Environmental Action will meet Sunday, Feb. 24 at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Contact Amy Jenista, 283-1343, for more information. 
AHentlon all Polo Players, experienced riders, or interested parties: An organizational meeting for the Notre Dame Polo Club/Team will take place on Wednesday, Feb. 20th in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library at 8 p.m. 
The Club Room, 207 LaFortune, is available to campus clubs as a meeting room on a first come, first serve basis. For more information, call 283-2086 or stop by during the Club Coordination Council's office hours: Mondays 9:30-11 a.m. and 1 :30-7 p.m., 
and Thursdays 1 :30-8 p.m. 




GSUII
TEACHING 



~ 
RESEARCH WORKSHOPS 

Prof. L. Fraga Better Tests, Good Grades: Effective Skills for Testing & Grading Monday, February 18th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. I hr. general session and 1 hr. discussion groups 

tematically destroying the na­. tion of Iraq. 
Busailah argued that the U.S. 
does not want a strong Arab 
power in the region, which is 
why coalition forces are 
pounding Iraq with air power. 
"Iraq represented a threat to 
Israeli hegemony in the region. 
With Israel as the strong re­
gional power, the U.S. has con­
trol over their interests in the 
region, particularly oil interests. 
Iraq represented a threat to 
Israel and consequently. U.S. 
interests in the region," he said. 
Busailah argued for a Middle 
East conference to solve all the 
problems in the region, includ­
ing the Iraqi withdrawal from 
Kuwait and Israeli withdrawal 
from the occupied territories. 
Israeli withdrawal from oc­
cupied territories and the re­
newal of Palestine, according to 
Busailah, are the only ways to 
solve the Palestinian problem. 
He said that "originally 
Palestinians only wanted an 
equal vote within a joint 
Palestinian/Israeli state, but 
that went against the precepts 
Valentine for a Patriot
of Zionism ... so now we argue for a separate Palestinian 
Army specialist Kenneth Hall of Cape Cod, Mass., signs his namestate." 
to the casing of a U.S. Patriot missile, on display in a hotel. 
Bomb blast in Colombia leaves 22 dead 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Drug traffickers claimed re­sponsibility on Sunday for a car bombing in Medellin that killed 22 people and wounded 140, a radio station reported. 
The bomb exploded Saturday near the bullfighting ring in Colombia's second biggest city as thousands were flooding out of the arena. 
It was one of the worst at­tacks since the government de­clared a war on drug traffick­ers in August 1989. 
The bomb was aimed at po­lice providing security for the event, said Gen. Gustavo Pardo, an army commander in Medellin, 180 miles northwest of Bogota. 
Nine police officers were among the 22 killed, said Col. Jorge Ernesto Ferrero, the Medellin police commander. 
Hospital authorities said the death toll was likely to rise be­cause many of the wounded 
Interested in chairing the 

~®®~Q®~ 
Freshman Orientation 
Executive Committee 
Get applications from Stud Gov't Secretary (2nd Floor LaFortune) Due by: Friday, 22 Feb. 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSION FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST 
· TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 

ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 4:00PM ON FRIDAY, APRIL 19 
were in eritical eondition. 
The Caracol radio network reported Sunday that it had re­ceived calls claiming responsi­bility for the explosion by ter­rorists working for drug traf­fiekers. Ferrero said police would "evaluate" the call. 
Authorities suspect that one of the youth gangs that work frequently for the Medellin co­caine cartel may be behind the terrorist attack. 
About 2 50 police officers were killed last year in attacks by the Medellin coeaine cartel. Traffiekers said they were re­taliating for the anti-drug crackdown. 
Colombia also has b11en shaken by attacks by leftist guerrillas, which have resulted in more than 300 deaths this year. 
The drug cartel ealled an end to its bombing campaign last July in what it said was a peace overture to the government. The eartel said in a statement last week it would maintain its truce. 
But several recent cart11l statements have indicated that the traffick11rs' patienee was wearing thin. 

I.Buy4-\I"SSIOilS at~e regula-;! I pnce .1nd get 4 FREE • Ejuy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7 ,
_________ _J 

h~~8fJO'·----·-·-----~ llaJr('uttlng ('o~) 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURS GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Dally 9·8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11-5 


page 4 The Observer Monday, February 18, 1991 



Cargo plane crash in·Cieveland kills 2 passengers 


SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS 
l 

SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS .,. 
i'~· 

SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS 
" 
"' 

ARE YOU INTER~STED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AN ACCOUNT FOR $410,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
E ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
-STUDENT GOVERNMENT -STUDENT UNION BOARD -HALLS -CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE §'[]'(!)[Q)JEf:J'!J' I$<Q)[Q)'\Y '!l'mlEA§lUmiElli THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
ftl;. 

APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT
Practice makes perfect 
GOVERNMENT SECRETARY'S OFFICE 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8-5:00 PM;
Cpl. Mark Palacio of Los Angeles cuts barbed wire during a Marine training exercise Thursday in northern Saudi Arabia. The Marines are prE)paring for what is expected to be fierce fighting with Iraqi troops. 
DUE ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, BY 4:00PM. 
QUESTIONS, CALL 239·74-rT 


R..t..-.nt&

~~1tGR£A'T 
Coekt811l_.. 
Authenllc Szechuan, Mandarin l Hunan CUisine

~\YALL 
Sun. Feb. 1711:30-9pm MaiL 6: Tues. Feb. 18 6: 19 ~9pm CIIIRII 
Includes: Banquet rooms IIIWYUI ooup, appeti.un. available tor up IUPI'I' eight entrees, and to200 desserts
.... 


Come 
272-7378 130 Dixie W., L, 8outh lencl (next to Randal's Inn) 

Watch Irish Hoops on 5 TVs 

• • THE RISE AND FALL OF ASMALLIll FORTUNE COOKIE fACTORY 
•Nightly Specials 
Z 
Wm., FEB. 27-SAT., MARcH 2 8:10PM SUN., MARcH 3 3:10PM 

• Dart Tournaments 
Fri +Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 



All you can eat 2 -topping pizza for only $6 a person 
Sponsor~d by Art Midwest memb~rs and friends in partnership with the Na­tional Endowment for the 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 
APPhoto 

CLEVELAND (AP) Witnesses said they saw an ex­plosion shortly before a U.S. Postal Service DC-9 cargo plane crashed early Sunday at Cleveland Hopkins International 
Airport,  killing  the  two  
crewmen aboard.  
But  an  investigator  said  

Sunday night that no evidence of an explosion or bomb aboard the plane had been discovered so far. 
The plane flippe·d upside down onto the snow-covered main runway, demolishing the cockpit containing Capt. David Reay, 44, of Oakland, Calif., and First Officer Richard Dunney, 28, of New Jersey. Officials could not provide Dunney's hometown Sunday night. 
A gaping and charred hole was evident in the overturned underbelly of the fuselage. 
Witnesses to the crash in­cluded passengers aboard a Continental Airlines flight from Denver that had landed and was taxiing as the cargo plane was preparing to take off. 
"It looked like it exploded right in the middle," said Darren Wheeler, a passenger who is a Continental ticket agent. "It looked like it flipped, and then it slid right by us up­side down on the runway. It was 200 feet from us, at the most. 
"It's odd. I didn't hear any­thing," Wheeler said. "But it lit up my eyes and it felt like my heart stopped. Everybody on board was freaked." 
He said the Continental pilot told passengers that the explo­sion apparently involved a cargo plane, calming their fears that it was a commercial flight bearing passengers. 
Officials refused to speculate as to the cause of the 12:20 
a.m. crash or whether the cargo, thought to be ordinary 
U.S. mail, might have contained an explosive. 
Hopkins spokesman Mark Courtney, when asked whether a bomb might have been planted in the plane's cargo, said, "We have no reason to believe that is a possibility." 
Mort Edelstein, public affairs officer with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in Chicago, said there were flames in the left engine of the cargo plane as it took off on the runway. 
Investigators for the FAA and National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) arrived Sunday to sift through the wreckage, seeking the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder as well as other clues. 
At an briefing Sunday night, NTSB investigator Barry Strauch said the agency had not ruled out any possible cause of the crash. 
"Right now we are looking at everything," Strauch said. 
Strauch said there was no immediate evidence of an ex­plosion, but he acknowledged that witnesses had described the accident as following a blast. 
An initial check of the wreck­age showed no evidence of characteristic craters on metal parts that might indicate that an explosion that had occurred, Strauch said. In addition, the wreckage was largely intact, while an explosion often scat­ters debris over a wide area, he said. 
Strauch also said there was "no evidence of an act of ter­rorism" in the crash. 


---~--~ 
The Observer 

Monday, February 18, 1991 page 5 
Senate bill would require gender balance in Indiana state boards 





~ ~ 

MOMS HOME COOKNi 
Counc1l Travel oilers domeStiC student a11 lares 1n selected markets' Call lor more 1nlo and a FREE Travel Catalog'

• 
Ch1cago, ll 312·951·0585 Evanston. IL 708-475-5070 


1


CombO '~~;(~~·a-tf
A generous serving (:'·'-._ 

.} • 
offried,charbroiledand · ,··.
scampt-style shnmp. Served with rice or potato. · 




lSHONEYS. 
Seafood ltiiMl ' 
I U.S. 31 AT 1-80/90 Toll Road (Next to Signature Inn) 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS & FACUL TV 

1Oo/o Discount 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
from Kuwait then more power to whoever's doing the talking, as long as there are no sugges­tions of a pause or a cease-fire or something that would permit Iraq to reposition, to dig in further to strenghen its mili­tary position on the ground which could, of course, result in higher casualties for the 
1 I
' ~~~ '-i 
)'\ /{ 
\._£.; I 
J'~~<:, . ;/ 
. . Every dmner mcludes 1 
ShoRey's SoliD. • Salad &Fruit lar I 

coalition forces," Baker told Cable News Network (CNN). 
Baker refused to say during the interview on CNN's "Newsmaker Sunday" when an allied ground assault might be­gin. 
But when he was asked if it could start during the Aziz­Gorbachev consultations, he replied: "The campaign plan that the coalition forces have is going to be carried out in ac­cordance with its original terms." 
·24-Pieee Shrimp Diner ( ---------------------ffs-Tii.iE-i=oFfTHE------------------­
SECOND ANNUAL 
l

ServedwJthnceorpotato. ~ FOOTBALL SLAM DUNK ~ ~ CONTEST!! ~ C~me see your favorite football stars,Shrimp ( , _( v) ~ ~<9•(__"ld · JUdged by George "Boo" Williams, 
at halftime of NATIONALLY RANKED 
WQMEN1S  8 ASK ETB ALL  
VS  
ST.  LOUIS  

Tuesday, February 19th 7:30pm Joyce ACC 
SUJertiDJisbbl ~$1 FaMtil7Sls& GaiO:rr:J 

President Bush follows his dog Ranger as he starts out jogging 
Thursda afternoon in Washington. 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
AMERICAN 
+
CANCER SOCJElY' 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Try as he might, state Sen. Anthony Maidenbnrg has been unable to persuade a Republican commit­tee chairman that requiring gender balance on state boards and eommissions is a good idea. 
Sen. Joseph Coreoran, R­Seymour, has declined to give the Marion Democrat's bill space on the hearing calendar in thA Senate Public Policy Committee. 
"lie does not share my enthu­siasm about the bill," Maidenberg said. ''I'm reviewing my legislative options for how I will be able to bring this proposal to a vote." 
Under Senate Bill 591, new appointments to all boards, commissions, committees, councils, task forces and other state panels would have to be balanced so equal numbers of men and women eventually serve on the committee. 
However, the requirement would not apply to members who are required to hold an elective or appointed office as a condition for belonging to the board. For example, state legislators appointed to committees would not have to comprise equal numbers of men and women. 
Maidenberg believes his bill will encourage more women to become involved in state policy and open the doors to elected office for many of them. 
"The committees and task forces and other groups to which the bill would apply are often the beginning contacts men and women make for even 
deeper involvement in state 
government. Often, the seeds 
are planted for legislative 
races," he said. 
"Contacts are made, experi­ence gained, knowledge . acquired and interest 
stimulated." 
Maidenberg acknowledges 
that former Gov. Robert Orr 
and Gov. Evan Bayh have 
appointed more women to state 
panels in recent years than 
their predecessors. 
"Often, though, women are 
appointed to committees that 
are considered traditional 
women's areas," he said. "This 
legislative proposal would cut 
across the board, involving 
women in all facets of state 
government." 
Some opponents argue that finding women qualified to serve on some state boards would be too difficult. 



is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 20, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
~ 
~ 
THa; FIGHllNG 
•IRISH 
with your college I.D.
_____.....~·-------IRISH _______Sf______COUNTRY__I
'~----------~ ~%$~-------­

page 6 OPERATION DESERT STORM Monday, February 18, 1991 

APF'td:l

Marine funeral 
Marines carry the casket of Bernard Sean Winkley in Windsor, Maine, on Thursday during graveside service. Winkley was killed during a training exercise as part of Operation Desert Storm last week. 





U.S. pledges no cease-fire while Soviets try diplomacy 
WEEKEND GULF ROUNDUP 
Large pro-Iraq rally in Tunisia 
•TUNIS, Tunisia -Tens of thousands of pro-Iraq demon­strators burned American flags and marched through the capital Saturday in Tunisia's largest protest against the multinational coalition waging war against Iraq. The march was organized by the labor unions, which estimated 50,000 people attended. Police reported no violence. Tunisia has sided with Iraq in the six-month­old gulf crisis and is the headquarters of the Palestine Liberation Organization, one of Iraqi President. Saddam Hussein's strongest allies. In neighboring Algeria, meanwhile, heavily armed police patrolled the streets of Algiers a day after crowds sacked offices o the national airlines of Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Italy and France. Algerian police used water cannons and tear gas Friday to break up the rampaging pro-Iraqi protesters, who also stoned the local bureau of the United Nations . 
.Reagan says policy may have been 'a boner' 
•PROVO, Utah -Former President Reagan said Friday that his administration may have "committed a boner" by strengthening Saddam Hussein's military machine during its eight­year war with Iran. But Reagan, speaking to a crowd of 10,000 at Brigham Young University, said supporting Iraq against Iran seemed the proper course at the time. "I have to say we committed a boner with regard to Iraq and our close friendship with Iraq," said Reagan, invited to the Mormon-run school by its president, Rex Lee, who served as U.S. solicitor general from 198~ to 1985. Reagan, 80, said after seeing evidence that Saddam had used poison gas on Kurdish tribesmen in Iraq, he began to realize Saddam was a potential threat to peace. "What can you say to an independent country way off in the Middle East? I think we took action not to continue with supporting them," Reagan said. 
Americans support bombing, polls say 
•WASHINGTON -Eighty-one percent of Americans believe the shelter where an estimated 400 Iraqi civilians were killed by an American bomb was an legitimate military target, according to a poll reported Friday. Sixty-seven percent of the respondents believe the United States is making an adequate effort to avoid hitting civilians and only 13 percent say the effort is not enough, according to the ABC News and the Washington Post poll. In another poll, 92 percent agreed that the bombing of the underground shelter was an unavoidable tragedy. In that poll, a USA Today poll, 84 percent said Saddam Hussein was most responsible for the deaths in the shelter. Seventy-five percent o respondents in the ABC-Washington Post poll said the bombing o Baghdad should not be stopped to avoid civilian deaths and 69 percent of the USA Today sample said civilian deaths near military targets are justified if U.S. lives are saved. 
Sa:.di's earmark small fraction of funds 
•MANAMA, Bahrain -Saudi Arabia's environmental agency has earmarked $2 million -a small fraction of the estimated clean-up cost -to tackle the world's biggest oil slick and is relying solely on donated equipment, officials said Saturday. The officials blamed the kingdom's war-weakened economy for the cash crunch. Already more than 100 miles of the country's Persian Gul coast is awash with crude -some of it intentionally released by Iraq and some the result of war damage. "There's just no money in the bank," said a Western diplomat, noting that the Saudi fund was less than 2 percent of the estimated cleanup cost. "People think the streets here are paved with gold but they're wrong." In a study for Saudi authorities, Bechtel International estimated the costs of containing the slick at $1 billion and the long-term cleanup at $5 billion. 

Egypt rejects Iraqi diplomat's request 
•CAIRO, Egypt -A junior Iraqi diplomat who sought asylum in Egypt was turned down, but authorities allowed him to travel on to Sudan, a senior official at Cairo International Airport said Saturday. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, identified the diplomat as Iyad Jameel Kurdi, an administrative attache at Iraq's embassy in Chad. Kurdi arrived in Cairo on Friday aboard a Royal Jordanian Airlines flight from Amman, Jordan. He asked for asylum; saying he was disenchanted with President Saddam Hussein's regime, the official said. He did not say how Kurdi got to Amman from Chad. When authorities refused his asylum request, Kurdi asked to be allowed to go to Sudan. The official did not say why the request was refused. Sudan and Jordan are among several Arab countries that have shown sympathy for Saddam and protested the Persian Gulf war. 
Shamir rebuffs Iraqi peace offer 
•JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir on Friday dismis!'ed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's offer to quit Kuwait and said there would be no peace in the Middle East until Saddam Hussein was deposed. First word of Saddam's offer brought "a ray of hope," for an end to the Persian Gulf War, Shamir said in an interview broadcast on Israel television. "But it quickly became clear that the Iraqi dictator didn't yet decide to end this nightmare and these insane acts," he said. Saddam offered to withdraw from Kuwait, but among his conditions were a withdrawal of U.S.-led allied forces from the Persian Gulf and an Israeli pullout from occupied Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese territories. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration said Sunday that there was "nothing to be lost by talking" but vowed to continue the allied bombing campaign while the Soviets seek a diplomatic solution to the Persian Gulf War. 
"We say no cease-fire, no pause, get out of Kuwait," said Secretary of State James Baker. 
President Bush, vacationing in Kennebunkport, Maine, told reporters: "We are determined to finish this job and do it right." 
The administration reiterated its resolve as Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz headed to Moscow for talks aimed at finding a peaceful solution to the crisis. He is scheduled to meet Monday with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Bush said he did not know what would come of the talks, but he said Gorbachev was "trying very hard to seek an end to this conflict." 
"He knows very well that the objectives spelled out by the 
\ \. 
\ "~"''' 

The Bush bat 
United Nations... must be met in their entirety," Bush said. 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said the only thing that could slow the allied military campaign was the start of an Iraqi pullout from Kuwait. 
"The only thing we can really believe is action," Cheney said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," "We have to see him withdraw from Kuwait." 
"We have a certain tempo to our military operations now and... we're not going to break that tempo unless it is clear that he is complying with the (U.N.) Security Council directive," said Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft. 
Baker, interviewed on CNN's "Newsmaker Sunday," said the Soviets were welcome to seek a diplomatic solution, but he ex­pressed no optimism they would succeed. 
"There is nothing to be lost by talking... and if that will result in the withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait, more power to whoever is doing the talking," Baker said. "... It remains to be seen, of course, whether anything can come of this session." 
Baker added that even if an Iraqi withdrawal did follow the talks, "It's just not going to be because someone has been talking to the Iraqis. It's going to be because the coalition forces are doing what we have said for some time we would do" to force them out of Kuwait. 
Scowcroft, appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation," said past Soviet attempts to help Saddam Hussein engineer an "elusive withdrawal with dignity" had ended in failure. 
"He cannot be rewarded for the terrible things that he has perpetrated in the gulf," Scowcroft said. 
Bush's day began in church, where the service was disrupted by a man who demanded an end to the bombing of Iraq and the deaths of civilians there. 

Worth Sports Company of Tullahoma, Tenn., has crafted a special bat for President Bush and American Troops in Middle East. The bat features a likeness of Saddam Hussein on the bat's hitting surface. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Monday, February 18, 1991 page 7 


Bush confident that war will end 'very, very soon' 
KENNEHUNKPOHT, Maine (AP) -President Bush ex­pressed confidence Sunday that Iraq's takeover of Kuwait will nnd "vnry, very soon," but he rnfused to diseuss the timetable for an expnetnd ground war. 
"The dneision on ground fon~es will be madH by me," the vaeationing prnsident told re­porters aftnr a brisk, hour-long walk on Parson's Beach. 
French Foreign Minister Holand Dumas said earlier Sunday that a datn had been set and that the Persian Gulf was on the eve, or pre-eve of a ground battle. 
Bush told reporters he did not know what would come out of a meeting Monday between Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz. He said Gorbachev "is trying very hard to seek an nnd to this conflict. But he knows very well that the objectives spelled out by the United Nations -and the Soviet Union was an important part of this -must be met in their entirety." 
He added, "I think they (the Soviets) are trying very hard and they're trying within the mandate of the United Nations resolutions, and that's the key point." 
Bush repeated his invitation for Iraq to overthrow its ruler, Saddam Hussein. "I wouldn't weep if the people put him 
Expert: One in 1 0 rescued birds will survive oil spill 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) ­Despite medi<:al treatment, only one in 10 of the oily birds res­eund from a massive oil spill in the Persian Gulf will survive, a Canadian government environ­mentalist said Sunday. 
The slick continued to cling to a stretch of water off Saudi Arabia's enntral gulf coast, moving little as winds shift. 
.Jose Carreiro, chief of wildlife conservation for the Ontario region of Environment Canada, said most of the birds rescued from sueh spills are in very poor condition. 
Earlier in the day, the Canadian official handed over $(,0,000 worth of bird-cleaning and treatment equipment to the Bahraini government, which is bracing for the arrival of the slick on its shores. The oil is still about 90 miles north of Bahrain. 
Already about 100 miles of Saudi coast is awash with crude oil, strntehing all the way down to the Abu Ali peninsula. The slick was more than 10 miles north of the vital dnsalination plant at .Jubail. 
The easterly breeze was keeping the slick in place or 
even blowing it slightly back­ward up the gulf, said David 
Olsen  of  the  kingdom's  
Meteorological  and  
Environmental  Protection  
Agency.  

Oil is especially dangerous to birds, which can drown when their feathers become oily. An even greater threat, Carreiro said, is "when they ... preen themselves and ingest large quantities of oil. That's the killer, and that's why special treatment has to be given to them." 
Previous studies have shown that of the birds collected, only 10 percent survive treatment, Carreiro said. Without treat­ment. all of them die. 
With the Canadian equipment, volunteers can expect to clean and treat about 40 to 50 birds a day. 
Priority will be given to birds that have permanent nesting grounds in Bahrain, especially the loeal breed of cormorant. 
"If they die, if nothing is done for them, these colonies will never come back," said Carreiro, who had no estimate of the local cormorant popula­tion. 

aside. I wouldn't weep a bit." 
The president, nearing the end of a four-day stay here, be­gan his day at church, where the service was disrupted by a man who demanded an end to the bombing of Iraq. 'Stop this massacre, stop this bombing," implored Massachusetts attor­ney John Schuchardt. 
Bush did not respond during the church service and the protestor was removed by po­lice. Later, the president raised the subject as he talked with reporters. Despite the cold temperatures and oceans winds, he was perspiring after the aerobic walk. 
"I am concerned about the suffering of innocents and I'm talking about the innocents in Kuwait, too," he said. Bush said that last week, 200 children were slain in Kuwait and that their bodies were mutilated. 
"We mourn for the innocents and I've been mourning for the innocents in Kuwait since that invasion in August," Bush said. 
"I hope we can get an end to that suffering very, very soon. I think we will," he said deter­minedly. 
Bush brushed aside a ques­tion about Dumas' statement that a date had been set for a ground war. 
He said such questions re­minded him of skits on the, tele­vision show, "Saturday Night Live," making fun of the ques­tions asked by reporters. 
"You remember the questions they ask on 'Saturday Night.' 'Hey tell us how we can help the Iraqi soldiers the most' or 'What is the password' or 'Please give me some informa­tion that will do in our troops.' I mean, I'm not in that business, come on." 
Bush raised the subject of the condition-laden peace proposal from Baghdad on Friday, and said again, "The only good news out of that was for the first time they talked about withdrawal and they did not reassert their position that Kuwait was 'province 19," as Baghdad has claimed since its Aug. 2 takeover. 

Paws in the fighting 
Chief William Fields of Fayetteville, N.C., naps on a wall of sandbags Friday under the watchful eye of his six-month-old desert dog named Bojo at a U.S. airbase on the Arabian Peninsula. 
Iraqi protesters reportedly murder 10 members of Baghdad's ruling party 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -A crowd of Iraqis protesting Saddam Hussein's refusal to re­linquish Kuwait killed 10 offi­cials of the ruling Baath Arab Socialist Party in a town south of Baghdad earlier this month. according to reports reaching Nicosia on Sunday. 
The reports by travelers from Iraq quoted Iraqi officials who could not be named. Their ac­counts could not be indepen­dently confirmed. 
As far as the travelers know, it was the first anti-Saddam demonstration Iraqis have staged since the allied offensive beganJan.17. 
The 10 party officials in Diwaniyeh, 110 miles south of Baghdad, were all shot when they tried to confront the demonstration by as many as 5,000 people on Feb. 10, the reports said. 
The accounts by government and Baath officials said at least two of the bodies were muti­lated by the crowd. 
Diwaniyeh is in a predomi­nantly Shiite Muslim region. Shiites make up about 55 per­cent of Iraq's 17 million people, but Saddam's ruling elite is made up of minority Sunni Muslims. 
The reported protest came amid a relentless allied air of­fensive in which Iraqi officials claim thousands of civilians have been killed. The bombings are intended to force Saddam to withdraw his troops from Kuwait. 
"There were a lot of arrests after the killings, but no one knows for sure how many," ac­cording to one traveler's ac­count of the Iraqi officials' re­ports. 
"Officials say that the protesters were shouting anti­Saddam and anti-Baath slo­gans," another traveler said. "They were also protesting against the activities of the Popular Army." 
The Popular Army is the Baath Party's militia, formed in the 1950s when the Baath was underground. It is used to en­force party authority. 
The government claims the militia has 8 million members, but diplomats in Baghdad esti­mate its strength at around 850,000. 
Dissent and public criticism of Saddam's repressive gov­ernment are rare in Iraq. Saddam has systematically eliminated rivals or potential challengers since he came to power in 1979 and regularly purges his military. 
The reported protests reflect what the travelers, who have visited Baghdad and other parts of Iraq several times over the last six months, described as a growing alienation among Iraqis. 
Saddam's invasion of Kuwait Aug. 2 plunged Iraq into its second war in a decade. In the 1980-88 war with Iran, unoffi­cial estimates put the Iraqi death toll as high as 200,000. 
The travelers said that some Iraqi government officials -all of whom are Baath members ­are now openly questioning Saddam's dogged stand over Kuwait with outsiders where once they simply quoted party slogans. 
Based on comments by these officials, the travelers said heavy allied bombing has led a growing number of Iraqis to conclude that Iraq cannot with­stand an allied assault and that Saddam must moderate his stand or face catastrophe. 
The travelers said there was no evidence of any popular move to try to topple the Iraqi leader. He has survived at least seven assassination attempts since he took power in 1979 and several coup attempts. 
President Bush suggested Friday, when he rejected a heavily conditional Iraqi offer to withdraw from Kuwait, that the Iraqis should "take matters into their own hands" to force Saddam Hussein to step aside. 
The Observer 

UPPER LEFT: University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy sits at the President's Dinner Saturday. 
UPPER RIGHT: Daniel Piercy lectors at Class Mass at the JACC. 
MIDDLE LEFT: A saxophone player entertains the crowd Friday. 
MIDDLE RIGHT: Lisa and Carry Bernstein dine at the President's Dinner Saturday. 
IMMEDIATE LOWER LEFT: Flan­ner Hall President Chip Malin with his parents and Flanner rector Brother Michael Smith. 
LOWER LEFT: Sara Kuss is served during the From Sea to Shining Sea gala Friday. 
LOWER RIGHT:Tom Moyer and his mother Rose enjoy a cocktail. 
Photos by Marguerite Schropp and Ken Osgood. 




Business 
Monday, February 18, 1991 page 9 

New agency makes travelling easier for students 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN assistance in attaining trans­Business Writer portation and accommodations. Ninety percent of their business 

The trav11l agencies in Lafor­is making airline reservations, tune changed this past January. Anthony said. Anthony Travel, h11adnd by a The agency is able to get I986 Notrn Damn graduate, special rates for students. as has n~placed Travelmore. well as discounts for anyone 
.John Anthony is president flying to Notre Dame for special and ono of live ownnrs of the evnnts, such as football games, Dallas-originated agnncy. !lis Junior Parents Weekend, and wife and sister are also owners graduation. Faculty and staff and Notre Damn graduates. can get discounts, if travelling 
l'resnntly tlwrn are two of­in a group. lki!S, orw in Dallas, and one in Travel agencies do not con­Lafortune. Out of the twelve trol the fares, the airline does. nmploynes working for the Anthony explained,"If we see travnl agnncy, six arn either an opportunity where a lot of students or graduates of Notre people are going somewhere, Damn, aeeording to Anthony. then we go to the airline and 
Anthony said that the switch say 'you could get all of this in travnl agnndns in Lafortune business if there was a was a university decision. The discount."' prnvious travnl agency 's con­Travel agencies get paid by tract had nxpin~d. and the uni­vendors, such as airlines, ho­vnrsity did not rmww it. tels, and car companies, said 
.Jim Lyphout, associate vice Anthony. The agencies do the president for Business Affairs. vendors' work by providing in­rallnd Anthony last summer formation, and selling their and asked for a proposal of product. In return, the vendors husinnss snrvices. give the travel agencies a 
Othnr travel agencies were commission on the sales. asked to snnd in proposals. "It is a popular misconception Bl'forn opening in Lafortune, that it would cost a person Anthony said thny had done a more money to go to a travel could compare rates and get which includes teams, clubs or students. largn amount of business with agency than if they went to the the best deal for the consumer. academic departments; the tlw Notn! Danw administration. airline. when really the Anthony Travel's business is administration and faculty, with "We stress service and have 
Anthony Travnl is a full ser­opposite is true. "Anthony in three areas according to An­business travel; and the people who care about Notre vice travel agnney, providing pointed out that travel agents thony. These areas are groups, "leisure travel" mainly of the Dame, " said Anthony. 
Organized labor takes more realistic approach to health care 
BAl. IIAHBOUH. Fla. (APl -health insurance program. -often held up as a model for "A new sense of pragmatism government-financed plan for Discussion among union lead­Now, many labor leaders are U.S. reform advocates -has seems to be taking hold," Kirk­everyone, like Canada's setup; ers over how far health care backing a less radical overhaul been criticized as too land told a leadership confer­the other supports a less dras­rf'form should go shows that of the system because it is seen expensive, accounting for 9 ence of the American Medical tic approach, which would set organized labor is taking a as having a better chance of percent of the nation's gross Association, which was meeting up a program for uninsured 

morH realistic approach to the issue, AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland said Sunday. 
Speaking on the eve of the la­bor federation's annual meet­ing, lw noted that just a few years ago most union leaders backed a full-seale, national passing Congress. 
Opponents of national health insurance argue that it would eliminate the $200 billion in­surance industry overnight and impose an undue burden on taxpayers. 
Canada's $50 billion program 

AP Photo 

Patriotism sells 
A shopper in New York City's Bloomingdale's department store points out items in the "Stars and Stripes section Wednesday. Not since World War II has patriotic fashion been so popular. 
national product. Moreover, at a Miami Beach resort hotel Americans but keep many ele­critics cite problems such as near the labor federation's ments of the current employer­long lines at emergency rooms. gathering. based system. 
The 14.2 million-member la­Kirkland said a health care Kirkland, who himself favors bor federation's governing committee of the AFL-CIO's 33-the less radical approach, said board will try to hash out its member governing board was the move away from a govern­differences this week and pro­split evenly. ment-financed plan is one pose a specific reform package. One side backs a full-scale, measure of our determination. 
Senecan Indians sign new agreement; compensated for previous unfair lease 
SALAMANCA, N.Y. (AP)-For ing the lease settled for at least of the city's 6.500 residents. are years, it seemed little more another 40 years will allow life not balking at the higher rents. than a curiosity that this small to return to normal. The lease, they complain, will town nestled in the hills of "I know we should have been give Senecas more power over western New York was living paying much more,"· said the land and lasts just 40 years, on land leased for a token Loretta Ambruske, whose rent even though leaseholders will amount from an Iroquois In­will rise from $5.50 to $268 a have the option to renew for dian tribe. year. "But right now, all I want another 40 years. 
to do is get it over with -sign Above all, they're frightened 
But as the 99-year lease a new lease and get on with my by U.S. District Judge Richard ebbed away, Salamanca's eco­life." J. Arcara's initial decision in nomic life began to suffer. the case, that residents cannot Banks refused to write mort­Under the new agreement. sue the Senecas to enforce the gages on town property; busi­the Senecas will receive $35 lease becausP. the Seneca Na­nesses unsettled by the million from the federal tion has sovereign immunity prospects of change refused to government and $25 million from lawsuits. The reservation move in. from the state to compensate has a population of about 
When residents wake up them for the unfairness of the :uoo. Wednesday, their world will previous lease, imposed on have changed, and many feel them by Congress, which set "Where could we go if this for the better. The lease expires rents for most homeowners at happened: Let's say 15 years Tuesday night. just $1 to $5 a year. from now, some militant got in 
The land beneath their homes Salamanca, about 50 miles control (of the Seneca Nation) and businesses is owned by the south of Buffalo. has been liv­and said, 'We want the white Seneca Nation of Indians, one ing on borrowed land ev1!r man out,"' asked local busi­of six Iroquois tribes of upstate since it was founded by nessman Dna n Kilbourn. New York. Last year, city and railroad workers in the mid-"Where could we go if not to Seneca leaders signed a new 1800s on a reservation granted tlw federal court?" lease they hope will revitalize to the Senecas a half-century Some Senecas oppose thn the city economy. earlier. new lease just as loudly. 
A group of non-Indian resi­Nevertheless. when the dead­Protesters who advoeatn dents are fighting the new lease line passes there won't be any rnclaiming thp land for thn in court, and even some brass bands or fireworks on Seneca Nation by denying Senecas have displayed anger display. Most city and Seneca whites any new leas(! have over its terms. leaders will be at the U.S. Cir­disrupted several City Council 
But for many residents who cuit Court of Appeals in New meetings. began signing a new lease last York City, where a dissenting Mayor Antonio Carbone said week, the overwhelming feeling group of residents is seeking to he hopes the settlmnent will put is one of relief. They will be overturn the new lease. the city's economic paying sharply higher rent to The opponents, who claim development efforts back on the Senecas, but they hope hav-support from as many as 1,000 track. 








Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, February 18, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor.•.•...•..•••••••••••••Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director •.••.••••............ Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ...••.................. Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

GROUND WAR 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Student's strife not result of sex, race 
Dear Editor: average financial aid student is a belief is patently false. All the 
In his guest column, R. Garr "given" the opportunity to bor­students here are bright Schwartz expresses a sense of row money and to be eligible for persons who deserve to be here frustration at the price he has a work study job. At the end of on their merits. Minority had to pay for his education: an four years of college, a financial students are not admitted eight year commitment to the aid student could be over simply because of their race; military (The Observer, Feb. 5) $13,000 in debt with they get into Notre Dame He suggests that this choice was Guaranteed Student Loans because they are smart. forced upon him because he is a alone! Students get between five Mr. Schwartz's mistaken un­white male. However, he is and ten years to pay back these derstanding about relative ad­mistaken. loans, and must begin paying vantages leads to a false char­
Putting aside athletic and six months after graduation. acterization of Students United academic scholarships, the fi­Thus, financial aid students are For Respect. SUFR is not nancial aid "pie" is cut accord­not given their educations. they working for "Racially exclusive ing to a family's economic sta­earn them. In choosing to as­ideas that benefit minorities tus. Consequently, many white sume these debts, they enjoy no alone." Their demands are quite males qualify for financial aid. advantages over Mr. Schwartz, reasonable. In fact, many non­Mr. Schwartz was not given a who has chosen a military ser­minority students at Notre slice of the pie because his vice debt. Dame believe that SUFR is cor­family income is too high, not Some financial aid students rect, and fully support the de­because he is a white male. receive substantial grants. mands. If the Administration's That left him with unpleasant Again excluding athletic and treatment of SUFR is any indi­choices to make. He could have academic scholarships, these cation, minority students are asked his mother to take a job students come from families treated unfairly, not with fa­in order to pay for his college that are very poor. Few would voritism. education. He could have at­argue that such young people If Mr. Schwartz wishes to tended a less expensive school. should be denied generous fi­promote unity, he should get his He could have worked for a few nancial assistance. If minority facts straight. He should years to establish financial in­students disproportionately are understand that financial aid dependence from his parents, represented among the ranks of students work very hard to pay and thus qualify in his own right such students, it is because for their educations. He should for financial aid. However, he minority families are much know that minority students chose to take a ROTC more likely to be impoverished meet the same academic stan­scholarship. than white families. But poor dards that white students meet. 
The skyrocketing cost of post­white males qualify for the He should realize that minority secondary education forced Mr. same financial aid which is students suffer more disadvan­Schwartz to make great granted to poor females and tages now than most white stu­personal sacrifices in order to poor minority students. dents will ever encounter. He obtain a college degree. Nor do minority students at should be frustrated about the However, the problem is not a Notre Dame receive "academic terrible choices that he and function of his race or sex-it headstarts." Each student at other young people in this soci­results from our society's Notre Dame must meet high ety have to make in order to se­refusal to subsidize post­standards to be admitted. There cure an education. And perhaps secondary education for a per­are not minority standards, if he sits down and talks with son whose family income ex­female standards and white minority students, instead of ceeds certain limits. male standards. Suggesting that about them, he will realize that Furthermore, financial aid stu­minority students have received the unpleasant choice he had to dents face personal sacrifices such advantages at the expense make in order to pay for his similar to those Mr. Schwartz of white males leaves a reader education had nothing to do face when deciding how to pay of Mr. Schwartz's column with with his race or his sex. for his education. the impression that he believes 
Financial aid students do not minority students are less Maureen A. O'Reilly enjoy great advantages over qualified to attend Notre Dame Off-campus students like Mr. Schwartz. The than white male students. Such Feb. 11,1991 
DOONESBURY 

Dear Editor: years (The Observer, Feb. 4). 
Some intriguing thoughts l can not help wonder, just have come to my mind after what has Notre Dame been up reading about Mr. Ignacio to all these years? Both Mr. Lozano's recent visit and Lozano, as ambassador to El splendid donation to the Salvador, and the late Mr. University of Notre Dame (The Duarte, as president of that Observer, Jan. 30). Mr. Lozano, impoverished nation, had to be The Observer says, has (among instrumental in the immoral several things) been an ambas­American policy in Central sador of the United States to El America. The Salvadoran Salvador, and he has also gen­holocaust at the hands of the erously contributed to the Notre US-backed military has been Dame Jose Napoleon Duarte rightly condemned by the Scholarship Fund. Mr. Duarte Catholic Conference of himself was, several years ago, American Bishops and the the subject of much publicized grassroots of the Peace and tribute from the University du Justice movement in this Lac, to the joy of the Reagan country. Administration. 
It is a well known fact that As a fervent Catholic and 70,000 Salvadorans have been admirer of this illustrious slaughtered in the last ten years Catholic University, I do not by the US-backed Salvadoran want to think the unthinkable. military. Many Catholic priests, Someone had better tell me that including prominent Jesuit Notre Dame has not in any way scholars, have been victims of accepted or condoned what the that military cold bloodshed. American government has done Just a few days ago, the Roman to the people of El Salvador. Catholic Church's human rights God forgive! agency accused army troops of the massacre of 15 peasants, Anthony Mastro eight women and seven men, Off-campus ranging in age from 14 to 68 Feb.8,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'We often repeat what we have said, but never, never that which we have not.' 
Thomas Jefferson 



Viewpoint
Monday, February 18, 1991 page 11 

U.S. engages in war on both Iraq and environment 
Wn'rn not going to make it as a plarwt unlnss wn learn to stop waging war on ourselves and our environnwnt. 
Tlwre's absolutPly no doubt that WP and tlw world had to respond to Iraq's (Saddarn Hussein's) ruthiPss invasion and systPmalic looting, pillaging and raping of Kuwait and potential invasion of Saudi Arabia. Our first rPsponsn-tlw ert~ation and imposition of internationally agrPnd upon tradP sanctions barkNl hy non-invasivn military interdiction-was ideal. and providPd an PXrPilPnt example of' how nations might co­opnratP in tlw futun~ to create pnacPI'ul. non-military solutions to conflict situations. UnfortunatPiy, ratlwr than con­timw this coursn, we ruslwd too quickly into war. 
Wi!'ll rwvnr know if sanctions would haw workP<I. They might have, for Iraq has littln to sell otlwr than oil. If nothing else, sanctions would have bought additional time for other forms of' diplomacy and/or nvnnts (e.g., internal insurrection) to work. Diplomacy, in turn. might have had a better chance of sucenss (given poor Arab na­tions' long-standing dislike for the United States) had coalition forces and initiatives not been so disproportionately American. 
It's difTirult to imagine how we expectnd war to result in anything but a prolonged and devastating escalation of origi­nal conflict. Vast numbers of troops and civilians will bP. 
killnd or maimed, espndally if a land war is initiatnd. Israel will likely be drawn into the war, possibly causing a rP.-alignment of Syria within the coalition, and attacks of' Syria, Jordan and Iran against Israel. Chmnieal and/or biological and even tactical nuclear WP.apons may bn used. Horrendous eco­logical destruction will occur. lrnmensn sums of monP.y will be diverted from each country's pressing domestic needs. Long­standing Arab animosity to­wards the United States and the West will be intensified. J>rejudic1~ and discrimination against Arab citizens in Western countries will nmergn. Terrorist activity will increase now and for years to eorne. Even when Hussein is defeated, he will have w~m. having be­come a martyr to many Arabs for standing up to the United Statns, Israel and the West. And the cydn goes on. 
Regardless of whether one agrees with the decision to go to war, we are at war, and our troops and their families de­serve our total support, now and in the future. 
Support, in part, means doing our best to end this war before further escalation occurs, and before a deadly ground war is initiatnd. 
Support also means providing our troops with the best pro­tective gear and weapons pos­sible. It is outrageous. then, that we an~ asking our men and womnn to put their lives on the 
Joseph Miller 
Guest Columnist 
linn when we have equipped them with technologically obso­lete and minimally adequate M-17 gas masks, and provided them with numerous weapons that have repeatedly failed per­formance and-or reliability tests. Such weapons include the M-1 Abrams battle tank, thn AH-64 Apache helicopter, the Bradley Fighting Vehicle, the Dragon antitank missile, the UJI-60 Black Hawk hP.Iicopter, the Aegis defense radar system on Navy ships, and others. Large numbers of Anwrican troops were killed or maimed in Vietnam when we supplied them with M-16 rifles that were known to jam. Are we incapable of learning? 
Support also means letting our government know that we want an end to the conditions that got us into this war, and which will get us into future wars if we don't change our ways. 
We're never going to have peace, for instance, as long as our and other governments persist in massive arms sales to other countries. We're never going to achieve peace as long as we and other countries and corporations persist in selling technologies that can be used to create chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, de­stabilizing ballistic missiles, etc. We're never going to know peace until we and other nations enter into binding, verifiable disarmament/arms­limitation treaties, and back up these treaties with the threat of rigorously enforced economic and trade sanctions. 
We're really in two types of war. Even if we're successful in addressing <til the issues above and reducing inter-and intra­nation conflict, we'll still be at war. This second form of war-created by our massive dependence upon, and combustion of, oil-is being fought against the planet and its inhabitants in the form of global warming, smog, species and habitat dnstruction. wilderness destruction and toxic pollution of our air, land, water and food. 
The encouraging thing is that documented, viable ways to break our dependence on oil al­ready exist and can be further developed. These include fuel­efficient cars and trucks; in­creased use and development of mass-transit; energy efficient heating, cooling and building technologies; non-petroleum in­tensive agricultural methods; alternative and/or renewable energy technologies; recycling; and many others. The discour­aging thing is that our "leaders" are doing their best to ignore or even undermine the above. 
Why is it, for instance, that the President's proposed fiscal 1992 budget cuts federal sup­port for mass transit projects from 80 percent to 60 percent? 
Why is it that so few of our federal dollars are put into energy eflieinncy, renewables or alternatives, and so many are put-directly or indirectly-into nuclear power? 
Nuclear power is an incrndi­bly expensive, inherently dan­gerous technology, with many unresolvnd pr~o~blerns (e.g. stor­age of radioactive waste, rmtc­tor ernbrittlemenl), and the po­tential for catastrophic acci­dents. Nudear pownr is also no answer to our depnndl'nce on oil. According to the Nuclear Information and Hesource Service. less than 6 percent of our electricity was produced from oil in 1 <J90, and 90 percent of that was us1~d to producn power during peak periods, a task for which nuclear reactors arn par­ticularly unsuited. 
Things aren't going to change unless we make them change. For a variety of reasons (e.g. narrow education and social­ization, masculist values, commitment to the status quo) our "leaders" seem unable or unwilling to lead us towards a safe, just and sustainable fu­ture. Many of the options and directions that we need to pur­sue these goals have already been identified. 
Isn't it time that we found our voice and demanded that they be acted upon? 
Joseph Miller is an assoriate professor of psychology at .')aint Marys College. 
-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


U.S. flag theft shows students' warped political views, ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter bPcausP tlwrP are pPople on this campus with tlw genetic makP-ll(l of pond scum. I don't know who tlwy an~. but tlwy stoiP my Ameriean flag, and I am thoroughly disgusted. 
I liVP in PasquPrilla West, and while Llw dorm is in tlw midst of a l1~ngthy process of procur­ing a flag to hang "as a symbol of Anwrkan vallws," I opted to display my own flag in dedica­tion to tlw men and women who arP willing to light and din for this rountry. 
Shortly after midnight on Feb. 9, some guys (I know they were guys-1 !ward their voices) decided to rip down my flag. They nxpend1~d quite a bit of nnergy to commit this atrocity because the flag was not exactly reachable from the ground. I ran only assume that such a vile act repmsents some sort of warped political view in addition to profound ignorance. 
It's hard to nxpress the anger I feel. Such immaturity and in­sensitivity is uttnrly indefensi­ble. llow could someone who has the 'privilege of being an American citizen treat the flag and thn troops who are lighting for it with such blatant disre­spect'? 
While there are brave men fighting in the Persian Gulf, there are spineless cretins roaming around this campus performing acts of mindless vandalism. Apparently, these boys desecrated the stars and stripes because they are inca­pable of articulating their op­posing points of vinw in an in­telligent fashion. 
I challenge the people who stole my flag to overcome their cowardice and discuss the whereabouts of my flag with me. In the meantime, I abso­lutely refuse to let such base stupidity prevent me from showing support for the troops. 
Jo Delorenzo Pasquerilla West 


Feb.10, 1991 



Dear Editor: 
I am writing on behalf of Stanford Ilall concerning the apparent indifference on our campus towards a very special event, Late Night Olympics. For the fifth year in a row, Stanford paired up with Lewis to bring home the team title. This resulted from an organized effort to gain participation from numerous people in both dorms. In fact, it is usually the case that most people do not get to participate as much as they would like, due to a limit placed on the number of teams one dorm can enter. However, once the competition begins, we find that a number of dorms do not participate in any fashion, and the events become filled with forfeits. As a result, a lot of hard work by the Non-Varsity Athletics office is wasted, and a number of teams show up for hours while only getting to play one or two games. 
NVA has expressed concern that other dorms do not get in­volved because they feel that it is a waste of time due to the apparent lock that the Stanford/Lewis team has on the title and the prizes that accom­pany it. This seems to be true, since no other team put in the optional $100 ante for the grand prize fund. This-award gives 80 percent of the total fund to the winning team and 20 percent to charity. While I am surn that thn Stanford/Lewis team will contimw to put forth a strong effort eaeh year, there is by no means any secret to our success. Wn win for three simple reasons: enthusiasm, teamwork and some athletic ability thrown in as well. None of these elements is unique to Stanford and Lewis. 
While wn remain proud of our accomplishment of being the only team to win the nvent, I believe such an accomplishment would mean even more it if earne against the best that each dorm had to offer. The event provides in one night the chance to participate in organized cornpntition, raise money for charity and maybe even win some prizes for your dorm. The co-ree competitions and the pairings of male and female dorms on teams provides a chance to meet new people, as well. Ovnrall. there are a number of good reasons why people should become more involved in this annual nvent. Stanford/Lc~wis will show up in full force again next year; we only hope that a few other dorms decide to do the same. 
Matt Holloway Stanford Hall 
Feb. 13,1991 


Sense of community eludes ND student because of denominational differences 
Dear Editor: 
Maria Anrw Cataldo is not alorw as she rnfnrs to "a com­municw which does not truly exist bntwenn the [United Methodist and Homan Catholic! ehurdws." (The Observnr, Feb. 
11) As a United Methodist at Notre Damn, I have, at times, fnlt exduded as a Protnstant outsider. 
First, I wish that all United Methodists could be as ecu­mnnically embracing as those whom Cataldo has met in South Bnnd. I havn my share of home­town parishioners who question my prnsnncn at a Catholic university. I have defended my­snlf by maintaining that fun­danwntally I attnnd a Christian university. 
I fmqtwntly worship with the law school community. Initially, euriosity and convenience drnw me to Mass, followed by a de­sire to worship with my peers. Celnbrants ranging from law school professors to this uni­versity's top administrators have moved me, and I have " belongnd" for a moment-until the Eucharist. When my fellow students and I are ready to commune with our common God, I am forcnd to sit down as they proceed to the altar. A sense of great belonging pre­cedns this moment; a sense of great loneliness follows. 
This loneliness occurred again at the Jan. 15 Mass for peace at Sacred Heart Church. We united as a studnnt body and as a nation to pray for a peacnful resolution to the Gulf crisis. The Mass alerted me to the power of prayer and the power of community, but it did not invite me to partake in the power of holy communion. 
Similarly, certain law profes­sors begin their classes with "Hail, Mary" or other denomi­nation-specific prayers which, often unintentionally, exclude non-Catholics. I am grateful to others that begin classes with the "Our Father" or other in­clusive, spontaneous prayers. Such prayers do not diminish Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter, but strengthen it by reach­ing out to all Christians. 
What did I expect by corning to a Catholic law school? I hoped to be welcomed as a fel­low Christian. I hoped to learn from, not be excluded because of, denominational differences. I hoped to find that the love of Christ which unites us is greater than the doctrine which divides us. 
John D. Stoddard Off-campus 


Feb.11, 1991 

-----~----·~~~------­

[ 
----·-----­


Accent 
page 12 Monday, February 18, 1991 
'Good Sports' offers blond hair, nice smiles, and bad humor 
When someone mentions nates the initial banter, Tannen "Good Sports" (CBS, Tuesdays interrupts to tell the audience at 9:30 p.m.) certain images that he is "the other anchor immediately come to mind, and here on Sports Central." a clue for the potential viewer Roberts then quickly interrupts is that an Emmy is not among Tannen to inform the American them. The images inspired by public that "he is not unlike the this program consist of such things as clouds. Things of little or no substance with lots of Marc Johnson open spaces might remind the To Be Continued ... viewer of "Good Sports." 
This program has a very spare tire we keep in our cars." original plot which might have If CBS thought that Farrah worked very well. Each episode Fawcett and Ryan O'Neil would of "Good Sports" opens with an have some wonderful interplay ESPN-style format. The viewer because they were married, sees a graphic bearing the they were wrong. The comedy Rappaport Broadcasting they produce has absolutely no System logo and hears the net­substance, and after every line work's theme song. This they appear to wait for the graphic is then replaced by the laugh track to shut down be­All Cable Sports Network fore continuing. Neither actor (ASCN) logo. has played a comic role in re­
CBS is attempting something cent years, and this fact is all very interesting with the con­too painfully evident. If the ex­cept of "Good Sports." Here is a ecutives at CBS wanted to hire major network using the suc­two blonds with nice smiles and cess of the cable industry as the no comic talent, they made the basis for a new series of its right choice. If they wanted own. While "WIOU" and other anything else, they made a mis­new series use the television in­take. dustry as their basis, a cable Another disappointing aspect network has never been the fo-of "Good Sports" is that it cus. makes very little use of the 
If the concept of "Good sports format. Jim Brown was Sports" has been established as the subject of one program, but 
-
a good one, where does the the athletic nature of his char­series go wrong? The problems acter was not highlighted. The begin when the viewer sees Jim Brown who did not like to Farrah Fawcett and Ryan give interviews was the only O'Neil behind the ASCN logo. Jim Brown "Good Sports" fully Farrah Fawcett plays anchor utilized. 
quivering with excitement nor to be a harpist. "The first step desperate, all the characters ofwoman Gayle Roberts, and After Jim Brown destroyed a laughing at the humor. is admitting you have a prob­"Good Sports" turn to stupidRyan O'Neil is cast as anchor­reporter of lesser merit, Gayle Although Jim Brown dealt lem," said a consoling Gayle sex jokes, but the characters ofman Bobby Tannen. Roberts is Roberts decided to tackle this some serious insults including, Roberts. this program are simply too flat 
the lovely but talented reporter difficult interviewee. "I'll de­who takes her job very seri­stroy Gayle Roberts," growled "you're a bag full of hair, a to be funny. 
mouth full of teeth and $50,000 The comedy of this situation Comedy does not requireously, whereas Tannen is the Brown. 
worth of aerobics," Gayle is so forced that watching it reality to be successful, but theex-football star who only takes "My father told me that Roberts prevailed to the sur­becomes almost painful. Jim basis of "Good Sports" ishis lust for Roberts seriously. beauty is only skin deep, and prise of no one. Brown did have some very founded in the very real worldEach program begins with an where there's a will, there's a funny lines, but they wer.e of of reporting and sports. Theactual television broadcast, but lawyer to read it to the sur­In the dramatic climax, Jim such a suggestive nature that I humor in this subject may bethe dialogue coming from each vivors," countered Roberts. At Brown was reduced to tears by would probably have had them found somewhere, but not inanchor person is very uncon­this point anyone still watching admitting that he really wanted edited. When the program gets this program. 
vincing. When Roberts domi-"Good Sports" was neither 
Mica makes no 'Contribution ' to dance music 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR the strong rhythm. album. Again, however, she is Accent Writer "If I Love U 2 Nite," the first unable to produce vocal · single from Contribution, pre­excellence consistently. 
Dance music seems to be dictably, was written by Prince. Every other vocal song on the going nowhere. With each new In fact, His Purple Majesty album is a disappointment. artist, identical rhythms are penned the track especially for Each is a standard, boring, hammered into listeners' heads Paris, and she turns it into the dance-music, synthesizer pro­and rehashed by different most satisfying vocal perfor­gram with Paris' usually weak synthesizer programmers like mance of the album. Though voice thrown in for good mea­so many Vanilla Ice riffs. Lyrics the lyrics and arrangement of sure. rarely, if ever, delve more the song are disappointing for a The two brightest spots on deeply into human nature than Prince work, Paris shows the the album do not adhere to the did "Celebration." listener her capabilities as a dance-music formula. "Deep 
Mica Paris is relatively un­singer. Afrika," with its African drums, known in America, though she Apart from these songs, no howling, and powerful, word­has enjoyed a huge following in track is satisfying from begin­less singing by Paris, is a song her native Britain since the re­ning to end. The most annoying which is not fully satisfying only lease of So Good, her 1988 de­example of Paris' inconsistency because of its length (under but, a typical late '80's dance is "Who Can We Blame," a song two minutes). "One World," too, collection, full of synthesized which begins with an interest­is an intensely interesting song, rhythms and overproduced ing instrumental. Yet, the num­though hampered by overly background singers. ber quickly degrades into a trite subject matter. 
Paris has broken little ground rhythmic tedium with Paris oc­After listening to on her second album, casionally soaring through the Contribution, it is difficult to Contribution. Though she beat. These moments of vocal determine Mica Paris' capabili­shows flashes of talent, her strength from Paris are few· ties. She has a strong voice, but voice is drowned out by rhythm and far between, and her peri­she rarely decides to use it on nearly every track, and the ods of relative silence are frus­fully. Paris can also work well two best songs on the album do trating. with alternative rhythms, as not feature Paris at all. she shows on "One World." The album's opening song, Similarly, Paris frustrates the Unfortunately, the rest of "Contribution," showcases an listener with ':More Love," a Contribution is wholly unsatis­~PAP intriguing beat and a rap solo song written by Smokey fying for the listener, who, once by Rakim, both of which help Robinson which, with its intri­he has had a taste of what cONTRIBUTION I this track to respectability. cate instrumentation, is ar­Paris can do, will be However, the listener never ranged much more inescapably frustrated by what
Although Mica Paris shows flashes of talent in her second album 
hears Paris, who is overpow­interestingly than any other she chooses to do with this al­
"Contribution," her voice is lost in the rhythm on most of the singles. 
ered throughout the song by vocal performance on the bum. 
Monday, February 18, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Barkley, Hawkins help 76ers beat Clippers, 114-104 
LOS ANGELES (API Charlns Barklny and IIMsey llawkins each had 24 points as tlw l'hiladnlphia 76ers snapped a thren-ganw losing streak and a si'VIHJ-ganw road skid with a 
I 14-I 04 victory over tlw Los Angeh~s Clippers. 
In winning for only the fourth tinw in their last 14 games and tlu~ first time away from the Spnctrum since Jan. 11 at Milwauknn, thn Sixnrs also got 17 points from Hon Anderson -eight in thn fourth quartnr­as thny dealt the Clippnrs their sewnth dnfnat in eight games. 
Danny Manning pacnd Los Ans.wtes with 21 points. 
Lakers 106, Trail Blazers 96 
.lanws Worthy scored 11 of his :w points late in the third quarter and the Los Angeles Lakers rallied to bnat Portland I()(,.')(, to pull within 3 1-2 ganws of the Padfk Division­leading Trail Blazf'rs. 
Magie Johnson added 9 of his 24 points in tlw third quarter for tlw l.akl'rs, who had lost two of tlw i r previous th rne gamns aftPr winning 16 straight. 
Los AngPIPs, which has tlw NBA's third hnst rncord at 37­1:~. won for tlw second timn in thrPn ganws with Portland this sPason. Dn~xiPr had 2<J points for Portland. which still has the NBA's IH'st rncord at 41-10. 

Knichs 116, Pistons 88 
Patrick Ewing scored 28 points and thn Nnw York Knicks played their best game of the season Sunday, outscoring Detroit 62-34 in the middle two . quarters nn route to a 116-88 victory. 
With anothnr loss at Madison Square Garden, the Knicks would have had the worst home reeord in the NBA. Even with the victory, they are 11-15, an 1~mbarrassing decline from their 35-6 record at home two seasons ago. 
lnstnad, Nnw York recovered from a slow start to rout the dnfending champion Pistons, outscoring them 18-4 after turnovers in the pivotal second and third quarters. 
Dntroit lost for the fourth timn in six games, although it is still 7-4 since Isiah Thomas was lost for the remainder of the snason after wrist surgery. John Satiny also missed the game with a bad back. 
Vinnie Johnson led the Pistons with 23 points, but leading scorer Joo Dumars had only snven on 3-for-12 shooting. Dumars, troubled by a sore toe, scored 58 points in Detroit's prnvious two games. 
Kiki Vandeweghe scon~d 20 points for New York and Charles Oakley had 15 re­bounds. 

Bullets 1 08, Cavaliers 1 04 
Rookie A.J. English had 31 points and 10 assists as Washington ended Cleveland's three-game winning streak. 
English, forced into the starting lineup because of in­juries to the Bullets' regular guards, made 12 of 20 field goal attempts to surpass his previous career-best of 30 points. 
The Bullets blew most of an eight-point lead in the final 
5:49. Down 105-102, Cleveland had a chance to tie in the last 11 seconds, but Craig Ehlo and Steve Kerr missed 3-pointers. 
Bernard King, who scored 25 points, then made two free throws with four seconds left to clinch the victory. Larry Nance scored 27 points and Brad Daugherty 22 for Cleveland. 

Pacers 113, Kings 110 
Micheal Williams scored 22 points, including two free throws with 11 seconds left, as Indiana handed Sacramento its 18th consecutive road loss. 
Rik Smits als.o scored 22 points for the Pacers, followed by Reggie Miller with 21. Antoine Carr led the Kings with 35 points, and Lionel Simmons scored 29. 
Chuck Person's two free throws gave the Pacers, who never trailed and led by as many as 20 points, a 111-108 lead with 15 seconds left. 

The Kings closed to 111-110 on a pair of free throws from Travis Mays with 13 seconds left before Sacramento's Jim Les fouled Williams. 

Celtics 126, Nuggets 1 08 
Larry Bird scored 17 of his 24 points in the first period against Denver, sparking Boston to its seventh consecutive victory. 
The Celties brnnzod to a 3(,. 23 lead af'ter one quarter and opennd a 67-41 lead at half­time. 
Although using their reserves for most of the second half. the Celtics shot 52.7 percent in handing the Nuggnts their fifth straight loss. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classilleds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 


Classifieds 
spaces. 

CLUB 23 GSU PROFESSIONAL THE THREE POINT PLAN 
I NOTICES CwANTED 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart. DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP #3 ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms Daily Specials. New addition: ' STUDENT LIFE TYPING AVAILABLE sleepaway camp in Massachusetts for The Coffee House BETTER TESTS, GOOD GRADES: INTELLECTUAL LIFE 
287-4082 seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, Graduation weekend. Located at Bring your books and come EFFECTIVE SKILLS FOR 'SAINT MARY'S APPRECIATION lifeguard, tennis. arts & crafts. all Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart study, or just come socialize. TESTING AND GRADING land & water sports. fitness, (12 miles from South Bend) Open daily 4pm-3am. ALISSA MURPHY gymnastics, piano/play for shows, Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 PROF. LUIS FRAGA 
NY TIMES. used and new books drama, judo, dance, archery. deposit per room. Send letter with '"EXPO ROMA'" PRESIDENT OF STUDENT BODY Pandora's Books 233·2342 photography, computers, model deposit to 3011 '"EXPO ROMA'" MONDAY. FEB. 18, 7·9 PM corner of NO ave. & Howard rocketry. guitar. radio. video, Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, '"EXPO ROMA'" CENTER FOR CONTINUING CARLA PRANDO 1 0·5:30 everyday yearbook, newspaper, wilderness. IN 46514. This week at Architecture Building. EDUCATION 
woodwork, AN. VICE-PRESIDENT FOR 6/23·8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. I need a ride to D.C./Virginia for REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
SOPHOMORES 111 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY Prime locations. 233· Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will Are you ready for Advanced 1 0707. 800·955-CAM P. 9947. enjoy my company. GREER GILLILAND Regtstr'ltion beginning April 8 ? LAUREN DELUCA IS THE BEST Have you selected your major? DAMN JPW WAITRESS EVER! VICE-PRESIDENT OF STUDENT 
Summer job interviews · Average FORSALE I SEARCHING FOR A CAREER? Love, Table 473 ACTIVITIES If you answered NO, consider earnings $3900. University We can help! reg1stenng for CAREER/MAJOR Directories, the nation's largest "2 1 · way airline tickets to San Quality resume and VOTE ON TUES., FEB. 19 DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP publisher of campus telephone Francisco. Feb. 27. $100 cover letter duplication. starting the week of February 1Bth directories. hires over 250 college 684·7203." Matching envelopes too. RACHEL HAUGH IS 211111 at the Umversity Counseling Center. students for their summer sales THE COPY SHOP Even though she can't drink, she'll NEWS FLASH: Call 239-7336 to reg1ster or for program. Top earnings $5,000-INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER somehow manage to make a fool ROB PASIN, our practically more information 8,000. Gain valuable experience in Buying a car? Good rates. Call me OPEN EVERYDAYIII out of herself. engaged student body president, 
advertising, sales and public for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. DONALD FOREVER was seen at Club 23 on Saturday Summer Programs 1n London relations selling yellow page Office near campus. TO PIGGY: Love, Kelley presiding over one of his (May 22-June 21) or Rome advertising for your campus HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY constituents. The constituent is (June 16·July 15). Courses in telephone directory. Positions also ANN GRANT! I! FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY described as blonde, medium art, business, education, history, available in other university CALL X5112 AND WISH CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. height, and cute. Rob was wearing

PERSONALS 
Italian, and sociology. markets. Expense paid training HER A HAPPY 19TH khaki pants, much to the surprise of Meeting Feb. 20, 6:30pm at program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking WE LOVE YOUUUU! WILD HEART, everyone. Upon seeing his khaki Carroll Hall (SMC) Students. for enthusiastic, goal-oriented CLUB 23 YOU LOOKED MARVELOUS! pants, the babe du jour burst into teachers. pizza, passport photos students for challenging, well· SPRING BREAK SPECIAL PLEASE, DO SAVE ME A DANCE tears. screamed. and sang a bar available. Info: call Prof. Black paying summer job. Internships Daily Specials. New addition: SAVE SAVE SAVEll NEXT TIME. from "Speed Racer." 284·4460 (off.) or may be available. Interviews on The Coffee House CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF 272·3726 (home). campus Friday. February 22nd. Bring your books and come FUN AND SUN!! Rachel Haugh-· Okay Mono 
Sign up at the Career & Placement study, or just come socialize. SUN SPLASH TOURS goddess, so you can't drink on your RAFF, JACK, and BILL: YOU Services. Open daily 4pm-3am. 1-800-426· 7710. 21st ....... we'll have you puking in THREE ARE THE MANLIEST MEN 
SPRING BREAK!!! $136.00 no time!l In the meantime .... I KNOW. Thank you for putting up ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE ANN "FUN" HICKEY: section 3-B will have a drink on with my less-than-skillful automotive GREYHOUND GOES. EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK CLUB 23 Happy 22nd birthday to the you!!! exploits. I am sorry you had trouble RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287·6541 READING BOOKS AT HOME. best RA on campus! You are Love, jacking. but then again, it WAS 
CALL 1·615·473-7440 EXT. B 340. Daily Specials. New addition: awesome!! Love, Liza, Monica. Kelley, awfully cold. Hopefully, you'll only 
The Coffee House Annie Herbie, Jill, E.T., Gina and Ang1e have to do it one more time. Love Tired of the protesters? Want to I need a ride to Philly or Wilmington, Bring your books and come and long·haired·Mask-look·alikes· show real support lor our troops? DE area for spring break. Will study. or just come socialize. Angie Bates: at-Taco Bell. ... Monica Call 289·1321, leave your name & share expenses. Amy x4244 Open daily 4pm-3am. Photography for Formals-Halls· Happy 21st birthday I No talking number. Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS to Ralph on the Big White Phone 
Photography at 234·8539. (especially in my room!) Have an Siobahn, Ann Marie and Megan are CLUB 23 excellent time and we're glad to cheap. sleezie News flooziess. BE ON T.V. many needed for Only 15 day!l. until John O'Brien have you join the quest for the 
LOST/FOUND 
commercials. Now hiring all ages. Daily Specials. New addition: becomes an adult. Maybe he'll cheesiest bar in Michianal Dutchboy· For casting info. Call The Coffee House move on to 14 year·olds now. Love, Thank You for a very enjoyable .... LOST .... 
(615) 799·7111 Ext. T-695. Bring your books and come 3·B: Liza, Kelley, Monica, Jill, evening-(formal) GOLD LINK BRACELET · looks like study, or just come socialize. Rachel, and E.T. It was great·(informal) (XoXoXoX)· IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd Open daily 4pm-3am. Attention Crew team members (past And so was that tie. FL LIBRARY, OR ANYWHERE ON FOR RENT and present): Only 15 more days CAMPUS. unitl John O'Brien's birthday. Herbie: IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CLUB 23 Now that your parents are gone 
219·291·7153. To all ENGL 491 A warriors: "All (Johnny, what a wussl) look out! Bridget· Daily Specials. New addition: wars are boyish and are fought by How was your Valentine's Day? Did Congratulations! As much as we 
LOST: BROWN PAIR OF NICE The Coffee House boys." words to live (and die) by ..... you soar like an EAGLE? Garth hate to think that you've "blown" GLOVES WITH LEATHER 3 Bedroom Homes. Bring your books and come enjoyed your box of candy and you your perfect record, it's always nice STRIPES. PLEASE CALL #1654. Walk to campus. study, or just come socialize. Kelley Tuthill is awesom. Love, Me. smooching his TB!II He says you're to have your mother around when 
232·3616 Open daily 4pm-3am. P.S. Happy Birthday to you .... welcome to do it again soon I you're sick! 




SCOREBOARD
page 14 Monday, February 18, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 

EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Allantic  Division  
w  L  Pel  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Boston  39  12  .765  9-1  Won  7  23-4  16-8  23-9  
Philadelphia  25  24  .510  13  3-7  Lost  3  17-7  8-17  19-12  
New York  22  29  .431  17  4-6  Won  1  11-15  11-14  13-18  
Washington  22  30  .423  171/2  4-6  Won  1  15-8  7-22  14-17  
New Jersey  16  35  .314  23  2-8  Lost  1  11-14  5-21  10-20  
Miami  15  35  .300  23 1/2  4-6  Won  2  11-15  4-20  8-23  
Central  Division  
Chicago  35  14  .714  7-3  Won  5  20-3  15-11  22-7  
Detroit  35  17  .673  11/2  6-4  Lost  1  21-4  14-13  24-9  
Milwaukee  32  20  .615  41/2  5-5  Won  2  22-4  10-16  20-12  
Atlanta  27  23  .540  81/2  3-7  Won  1  19-6  8-17  16-17  
Indiana  21  28  .429  14  6-4  Won  2  16-8  5-20  13-17  
Cleveland  18  33  .353  18  5-5  Lost  1  12-14  6-19  12-19  
Charlotte  15  35  .300  20 1/2  2-8  Lost  2  11-15  4-20  9-23  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Midwest  Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
San Antonio  33  15  .688  5-5  Lost  2  20-6  13-9  22-10  
Utah  33  17  .660  1  7-3  Won  1  23-4  10-13  23-9  
Houston  29  22  .569  5112  8-2  Won  2  19-7  10-15  17-15  
Dallas  19  29  .396  14  6-4  Won  2  13-12  6-17  11-19  
Minnesota  16  33  .327  171/2  3-7  Lost  5  11-11  6-21  11-24  
Orlando  15  35  .300  19  5-5  Lost  2  13-14  2-21  11-22  
Denver  14  35  .286  191/2  5-5  Lost  5  11-13  3-22  6-23  
Pacific  Division  
Portland  41  9  .820  8-2  Won  2  26-2  15-7  24-7  
LA Lakers  36  13  .735  4112  8-2  Lost  1  21-5  15-8  22-9  
Phoenix  32  17  .653  a112  6-4  Lost  1  19-4  13-13  21-11  
Golden State  28  21  .571  121/2  6-4  Won  1  18-5  10-16  17-14  
Seattle  23  25  .479  17  5-5  Lost  1  15-7  8-18  11-16  
LA Clippers  16  33  .327  241/2  2-8  Won  12-10  4-23  12-18  
Sacramento  15  33  .313  25  4-6  Lost  14-11  1-22  10-21  
Sunday's  Games  Monday's  Games  
Late Games  Not Included  Chicago at Cleveland, 3:30 p.m.  
Washington 1 08, Cleveland 1 04  San Antonio at Utah, 3:30p.m  
New York 116, Detroit 88  Seattle at Detroit, 7:30 p.m.  
Indiana 113, Sacramento 110  Denver at Minnesota, 8 p.m.  
Boston 126, Denver 1 08  Dallas at Golden State, 10:30 p.m.  
Milwaukee 111, Orlando 103, OT  
Philadelphia at LA Clippers, (n)  
Portland at LA Lakers, (n)  

HOW THE AP MEN'S TOP 25 FARED 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared this week: 
1. 
UNLV (22-0) beat UC Santa Barbara 98-71; beat No. 12 New Mexico State 86-74. 

2. 
Ohio State (22-1) beat Michigan 81-65; beat Wisconsin 73-71; beat No.4 Indiana 97-95, 20T. 

3. 
Arkansas (25-2) beat Texas Tech 87-69; beat Texas Christian 97-64. 

4. 
Indiana (22-3) lost to No. 3 Ohio State 97-95, 20T. 

5. 
Duke (22-5) beat Davidson 74-39; lost to Wake Forest 86-77. 

6. 
Arizona (20-5) beat Arizona State 71-50; lost to Georgia Tech 62-56. 

7. 
Syracuse (22-3) beat Providence 1 01-83; beat Boston College 106-85. 


B. North Carolina (19-4) beat Wake Forest 85-70; beat Maryland 87-75. 
9. 
S. Mississippi (19-3) beat McNeese St. 81-62; lost to S. Alabama 92-85; beatS. Carolina 62-58. 

10. 
E. Tennessee State (23-3) lost to Furman 104-93; beat Liberty 90-49; beat N.C. Charlotte 96-80. 

11. 
Kansas (19-4) beat Missouri 74-70; beat Kansas State 69-67. 

12. 
New Mexico State (19-3) beat UCSB 67-64; beat Fullerton St. 80-74; lost to No.1 UNLV 86-74. 

13. 
St. John's (17-6) beat Boston College 66-60; lost to No. 22 Pittsburgh 94-83. 

14. 
Utah (24-2) beat Wyoming 77-72; beat Brigham Young 81-74. 

15. 
UCLA (18-7) lost to California 82-79; beat Stanford 89-86. 

16. 
Kentucky (19-5) beat Tennessee 85-74; beat Mississippi 89-77. 

17. 
Nebraska (21-4) beat Iowa State 65-57; beat Oklahoma 105-93. 

18. 
Georgetown (15-8) lost to Connecticut 61-55; lost to Seton Ha1163-50. 

19. 
Virginia (19-7) beat Fairfield 84-52; beat Clemson 57-47. 

20. 
LSU (17-7) beat Auburn 98-61; beat Alabama 88-81. 

21. 
Oklahoma State (18-5) beat Oklahoma 77-74; beat Missouri 71-56. 

22. 
Pittsburgh (18-8) lost to Seton Hall 83-73; beat No. 13 St. John's 94-83. 

23. 
Mississippi State (17-6) beat Mississippi 84-77; beat Georgia 70-64. 

24. 
Texas (17-6) beat Rice 65-64; lost to Houston 82-73. 

25. 
Princeton (18-2) beat Brown 79-63; beat Yale 59-54. 



lJpcoming Events 
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 18 
ERICA DAHL-BREDINE 
1987 Notre Dame Graduate 
"EI Salvador: Option for the Poor ­
Reflections on a Postgraduate 
Experience" 
4:00 p.m. -Ctr. for Social Concerns 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20 
REV. ROBERT BOSSIE, S.C.J. 
Eighth Day Center for Justice, Chicago 
"Report from Iraq: An Eyewitness 
Account" 
In conjunction with NO's Gulf Action Crisis 
Group 

7:30 p.m. -Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 21 
Brown Bag Seminar 
DR. PATHE DIAGNE 
Visiting Professor, Africana Studies & 
Research Center, Cornell University 
"African Civilization and the State, 
and the Concept of the Sacred 
Person and Human Rights" 
Cosponsored with the NO African Students 
Association and the Department of 
Government and International Studies 
12:00-1:00-Room 121 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
NHL STANDINGS  
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Division  
w  L  T  Pts  GF  GA  Home  Away  Dlv  
NY Rangers Pittsburgh Philadelphia New Jersey Washington NY Islanders  31 30 28 25 27 20  20 26 27 24 30 32  9 3 6 11 3 8  71 63 62 61 57 48  225 250 199 212 193 174  186 222 190 198 205 218  18-8-5 19-11-1 15-12-4 17-7-7 15-11-2 12-15-5  13-12-4 11-15-2 13-15-2 8-17-4 12-19-1 8-17-3  11-7-3 15-11-0 9-12-5 9-12-5 14-11-1 8-13-4  
Adams  Division  
x-Boston  36  18  8  80  235  202  21-7-3  15-11-5  15-7-3  
Montreal  32  23  7  71  212  192  19-11-2  13-12,5  12-9-4  
Hartford  27  27  6  60  175  195  15-12-3  12-15-3  8-10-3  
Buffalo  22  24  14  58  207  205  11-11-9  11-13-5  6-10-6  
Quebec  12  38  10  34  168  265  6-18-7  6-20-3  6-11-6  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norris  Division  
w  L  T  Pts  GF  GA  Home  Away  Dlv  
Chicago St. Louis  36 35  19 16  5 7  77 77  198 228  156 182  19-7-3 17-6-5  17-12-2 18-10-2  14-6-2 13-7-2  
Detroit  26  30  6  58  213  229  21-11-0  5-19-6  11-12-3  
Minnesota  20  32  10  50  195  215  12-14-4  8-18-6  7-13-3  
Toronto  17  37  6  40  175  245  11-20-2  6-17-4  7-14-2  
Smythe Division Los Angeles 32 Calgary 31 Edmonton 28  20 21 28  7 6 3  71 68 59  244 238 204  192 182 198  17-8-4 16-7-1 17-11-1  15-12-3 15-14-5 11-17-2  11-7-4 11-6-3 10-11-2  
Winnipeg Vancouver  22 21  31 35  10 5  54 47  208 181  218 237  14-13-4 12-14-3  8-18-6 9-21-2  8-6-5 7-17-0  
x-cllnched playoff berth  
Saturday's  Games  Monday's  Games  
DAYTONA 500 RESULTS 


Chicago at Philadelphia, 1 :05 p.m.Minnesota 3, Detroit 0 N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers, 1 :35 p.m. New Jersey 3, Philadelphia 2 Washington at Los Angeles, 4:05 p.m. N.Y. Islanders 4, Pittsburgh 3 

Edmonton at New Jersey, 7:45p.m.

Hartford 2, Montreal 1 Quebec at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Toronto 3, Edmonton 2 Vancouver 4, Washington 2 
Tuesday's Games

Boston 5, Los Angeles 4, OT Buffalo at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Toronto at St. Louis, 8:35p.m.
Sunday's Games 
Detroit at Calgary, 9:35p.m.

Late Game Not Included Detroit 3, Chicago 3, tie Winnipeg 6, Quebec 0 Toronto 3, Buffalo 0 St. Louis at Calgary, (n) 
HOW THE AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 FARED 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams fared this week: 
1. 
Virginia (24-1) beat Wake Forest 98-66; beat No. 23 Clemson 89-62. 

2. 
Penn State (23-1) beat Temple 86-60; beat Rhode Island 98-33; beat Massachusetts 94-45. 

3. 
Georgia (22-2) beat Mississippi State 90-59. 

4. 
Tennessee (21-4) beat DePaul 105-43. 

5. 
Auburn (22-3) beat No. 25 Florida State 79-64; beat Vanderbilt 83-75. 

6. 
Purdue (21-2) beat Michigan State 102-76; beat Michigan 69-54. 

7. 
North Carolina State (21-4) beat North Carolina 90-70; beat Georgia Tech 98-74. 


B. Western Kentucky (21-1) beat Dayton 87-80; beat Eastern Kentucky 84-57. 
9. 
Arkansas (21-3) beat Texas Tech 82-70; beat Texas Christian 82-46. 

10. 
Washington (19-3) beat Oregon State 68-61; beat Oregon 65-55. 

11. 
Stanford,(19-4) beat Southern Cal76-58; beat UCLA 91-77. 

12. 
LSU (19-5) beat Louisiana Tech 76-70; beat Alabama 78-66. 

13. 
Rutgers (20-3) beat Duquesne 80-58; beat Temple 70-38. 

14. 
Mississippi (18-6) beat Mississippi State 75-57; lost to Kentucky 87-81. 

15. 
Connecticut (21-3) beat Seton Hall 80-59; beat Syracuse 85-49. 

16. 
Texas (17-6) beat Rice 87-50; beat Houston 68-64. 

17. 
Providence (20-4) lost to St. John's 90-89. 

18. 
UNLV (20-5) beat Hawaii 66-59; beat Hawaii 70-61. 

19. 
Northwestern (16-6) beat N.lllinois 91-66; beat Wisconsin 93-72. 

20. 
Notre Dame (1 8·5) beat Butler 94-62; beat Detroit 87-62; lost to Miami, Ohio 69-65. 

21. 
Stephen F. Austin (19-3) beat Sam Houston State 80-61; beat SW Texas State 84-50. 

22. 
Iowa (15-7) beat Ohio State 70-47; beat Indiana 86-55. 

23. 
Clemson (17-8) beat Georgia Tech 76-64; beat Maryland 77-64; lost to No. 1 Virginia 89·62. 

24. 
Long Beach State (15-7) beat UC Irvine 74-42; beat UC Santa Barbara 80-58. 

25. 
Florida State (18-5) beat Louisville 86-52; lost to No.5 Auburn 79-64; beat Memphis St. 101-77. 


DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Results of Sunday's Daytona 500 NASCAR stock car race, with starting position in parenthesis, hometown, type of car, laps completed, reason out, if any, money won and winner's average speed in mph: 
1. 
(2) Ernie lrvan, Rockwell, N.C., Chevrolet Lumina, 200, $233,000, 148.148. 

2. 
(12) Sterling Marlin, Columbia, Tenn., Ford Thunderbird, 200, $133,925. 

3. 
(14) Joe Ruttm.an, Franklin, Tenn., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 200, $111,450. 

4. 
(7) Rick Mast, Rockbridge Baths, Va., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 200, $100,900. 

5. 
(4) Dale Earnhardt, Doolie, N.C., Chevrolet Lumina, 200, $113,850. 

6. 
(17) Dale Jarrett, Conover. N.C., Ford Thunderbird, 199, $74,900. 

7. 
(36) Bobby Hillin Jr., Harrisburg, N.C., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 199, $50,925. 

8. 
(27) Alan Kulwicki, Charlotte, N.C .. Ford Thunderbird, 199, $52,450. 

9. 
(9) Ricky Rudd, Chesapeake, Va., Chevrolet Lumina, 199, $52,600. 

10. 
(20) Bobby Hamilton, Nasvhille, Tenn., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 199, $43,500. 

11. 
(28) Dick Trickle, Iron Station, N.C., Pontiac Grand Prix, 199, $39,525. 

12. 
(40) Eddie Bierschwale, San Antonio, Texas, Oldsmobile Cutlass, 199, $31,550. 

13. 
(31) Terry Labonte, Archdale, N.C., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 198, $34,355. 

14. 
(30) Chad Little, Charlotte, N.C., Ford Thunderbird, 198, $29,540. 

15. 
(1) Davey Allison, Hueytown, Ala., Ford Thunderbird, 197, crash, $77,350. 

16. 
(6) Kyle Petty, High Point, N.C., Pontiac Grand Prix, 197, crash, $41,580. 

17. 
(38) Mickey Gibbs, Glencoe, Ala., Pontiac Grand Prix, 197, $24,560. 

18. 
(35) Robby Gordon, Los Angeles, Ford Thunderbird, 196, $23,740. 

19. 
(3) Richard Petty, Randleman, N.C., Pontiac Grand Prix, 195, $43,120. 

20. 
(29) Phil Barkdoll, Phoenix, Ariz., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 194, $24,160. 

21. 
(18) Mark Martin, Jamestown, N.C., Ford Thunderbird, 193, $31,955. 

22. 
(41) Brett Bodine, Harrisburg, N.C., Buick Regal, 193, $23,400. 

23. 
(21) Jim Sauter, Necedah, Wis., Pontiac Grand Prix, 192, $21 ,845. 

24. 
(1 0) Darrell Waltrip, Franklin, Tenn.. Chevrolet Lumina, 190, $25,440. 

25. 
(11) Harry Gant, Taylorsville, N.C., Oldsmobile Cutlass, 190, crash, $26,385. 


21j. (33) Derrike Cope, Charlotte, N.C.. Chevrolet Lumina, 189, crash, $28,180. 
27. 
(8) Rusty Wallace: Concord, N.C., Pontiac Grand Prix, 188, crash, $26.425. 

28. 
(15) Bill Elliott, Dawsonville, Ga., Ford Thunderbird, 188, $28,680. 


TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League BOSTON RED SOX-Signed Ellis Burks, outlielder, to a one-year contract. CLEVELAND INDIAN$-Signed John Farrell, pitcher, to a one-year contract. 
SEATTLE MARINER5-Signed Rich Delucia and Brent Knackert, pitchers. to one-year contracts. TEXAS RANGER5-Agreed to terms with Ruben 
Sierra, outlielder, on a one-year contract. 
BASKETBALL 
National Basketball Association 
NEW JERSEY NETs-Activated Sam Bowie, center, from the injured list. Placed Kurk Lee, guard, on the injured list. 


~~~-~~----~-~~~~-----l 
Monday, February 18, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

DISMAS HOUSE: 
A communi~ of support, reconciliation and adjustment, dismos house offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dome students to shore in a life-training experience with former prisoners. Together on environment of trust, friendship and hope con be built to provide theconfidence and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral 
member. 
Are you interested in living in the Dismas community next semester? 
Applications available at the Center for Social 
Concerns. See: 

Kathy Royer-239-7862 
Application deadline: 

Friday, March 8, 1991 
In the NeXTstation""computer. "c"ve managed to squeeze the rnost possible computer 11110 the least flO"ihlc spa<:c \Vc\e :tlso 'queezcd the most posSible computer 11110 the least possible prlt·c. 
One lo\\ price indtllk' not onh the kevboard and mun1tor. but a full e1ght mcgahvtes of rncmor\. a hudt-in ! XK-meg.1hvtc Hopp' disk drive and Ethernet.The Ne\"Istation is also cqu1ppcd "ith :t lllS·megabvte hard d"k. onto" h1ch "·e han: taken .the Iibert\ of m'talling a rather formiua· hie package of soft\\ arc. including Wmet'\o\\." II!IIHrll/1111111." NcX'Ii11J11"" and [),gltJI Webster."" So all vou ha,·e to do i~ plug 11 in Jnd vou"re read' to 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN GET TWO BREAKTHROUGHS FOR THE PRICE OF ONE. 

Omcc of UNvcnuy Compu&illa Computin& C~:nu::r/M ..h Buildn1 
Phone: 139-?477 Hours: Mon. · Fri., 9:00 . S:OO 
The Observer page 15 
Twardokens wins gold at U.S. Alpines, poor conditions scratch men's races 
CRESTED BUTTE, Colo. (AP) -Ski Team veteran Eva 1\vardokens pocketed her sec­ond straight gold medal, over­coming near-blizzard conditions to win the women's slalom Sunday in the U.S. Alpine Ski Championships. 
The men's giant slalom, scheduled to be the concluding event of the nationals, was canceled pending possible rescheduling because of unsafe snow conditions. 
Crews managed to clear about 18 inches of new snow from the upper portions of the men's course, but the relatively warm snow caused the surface to begin breaking up after 27 skiers had made it down on the first run. The race was stopped, and officials said they would try to reschedule it later at another site. 
Twardokens paced the first run of the women's slalom, fin­ishing 34-hundredths of a sec­ond ahead of Heidi Voelker, as heavy snowfall and slippery conditions knocked eight of the skiers in the top seed of 15 from the race. 
Twardokens, 25, of Santa Cruz, Calif., finished in 51.18 seconds. Voelker, of Pittsfield, Mass., was clocked in 51.52 and Wendy Fisher of Incline 

go w \\Ork. You en:n get a free trial subscription to Ne>-.'TWORLD""rnag· azinc. ro keep vou up to date. 
-\nd to makt.: our ra"ic en:n more mmpcllmg. \\e"ll send a free '""I" of the exrr~ordinmv ~prcadshect pro­gram. Lotu' lmpro' (a ~t>'l) ,·alucl. to e\ef\·onc "ho purchase~ and rcgh· tcrs a NeXTst<Hion or NcX"Ii:uhc rom purer. or :111 040 UJlf!.T;u\c.: hoard hdorc March 31, 1991.• 
\\'e couldn"t even guess where mu muld make a comparable pur­cha\e.llut \\e ca.n tdl vou e~,.
,. 
actlv \\here to make this one. Check the space ~ below to tind the location riJII of w1ur campu' rcseller. '1"""" 

Village, Nev., ranked a distant third in 52.79. 
When Voelker missed a gate on her second run, exiting the course just seven gates from the finish, Twardokens appeared certain of winning ­if she could stand up. 
That appeared problematic as the snowfall, already heavy, intensified. 
"I couldn't see anything," said 1\vardokens, who also won the giant slalom on Saturday. "It was really tough with the visi­bility to keep your skis going in the right direction. I was really close to going out. I had trouble on the bottom and probably came within a centimeter of going out. 
"You couldn't really look ahead. You just had to hang in there. It wasn't a real good sec­ond run for me. I'm a little dis­appointed in it. But I knew Heidi had gone out, and if I had gone for it, I probably would have gone out, too." 
1\vardokens had a clocking of 
57.72 seconds on her second run-only the 10th best-but it was good for a combined time of 1 minute, 48.90 seconds. 
That was nearly a full second ahead of Fisher's 1:49.80. The runner-up finish gave the 19­year-old Fisher the combined title. 
For 1\vardokens, the victory concluded a brilliant eight days of skiing. She tied a career best with a second-place finish in a World Cup giant slalom last Sunday in Germany. After skip­ping the downhill here, she was ninth in the super-G before winning the GS and slalom ­her first national titles since 1985. 
The latest triuwph was worth $1,000 to Twardoken& under the new prize system in use at the nationals. 
Yugoslavia's Andreja Hojs, who skis for the University of Colorado, wound up third in 
1:50.73. Andrea Hartmann of Austria was fourth in 1:51.50, and Karianne Eriksen of Norway took fifth in 1:51.95. 
Officials were hopeful of get­ting in both runs of the men's race Sunday afternoon before it became obvious it was unsafe. 
"The seven members of the race jury were unanimous that we had to stop the race because of soft snow conditions in the racing line," said technical delegate Ted Savage of Canada. "The race course was breaking up. It looked like we would be OK until about racer 11 or 12. Then it started getting out of hand. 
"There were several crashes, and after Mark Bonnell crashed after breaking the tail of his ski in the Rock Garden section, we stopped it." 
Savage said the new, warm snow and little wind caused the hard snow underneath to break up, and that officials didn't have time to apply chemicals to harden the surface. 



Tennis 
continued from page 20 
has yet to reach his peak, ac­cording to Bayliss. 
"He's gutting out a lot of matches, but he's made enough improvement that he can play more aggressively" said Bayliss. "He has a lot of confi­dence in his ability to outlast people. He needs to look for opportunities to be aggressive, which he's working on." 
It seems that the Irish as a team are ready to pick up where the left off before Indiana's rude awakening. 
Playing five teams in the Top 20 in the next eight days will be hefty task for Notre Dame, but the win against North Carolina should provide the lift needed to overcome such competition. 

DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
Spending your SUMMER in Pittsburgh? 
DUQUESNE'S 1991 SUMMER SESSIONS OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
Registration for visiting students is easy ­by phone, fax, mail or in person! 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 
for your complete SUMMER 1991 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
-._...---------­
page 16 The Observer Monday, February 18, 1991 
~~------------------------------------------------------~--­




_________, 
Eldredge repeats as the U.S. Figure Skating champ 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -They finally ran out of surprises at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships. 
After upsets in women's sin­gles and in dance and a semi­stunner in pairs, Todd Eldredge, the only defending champion at the 1991 nation­als, held onto his title, beating 1989 U.S. titilist Christopher Bowman. 
"I have to rank it up there high," Eldredge said, "with all the pressure of defending a na­tional title and skating right after Christopher skated so well." 
Was it his best? "Pretty close," said Eldredge, 19, of Chatham, Mass. A steady long program high 
on technical skills lifted Eldredge past Bowman on Sunday. Although he wasn't spectacular, he did hit seven triple jumps, including two in combination, and his other ma­neuvers were superior to Bowman's. 
That was enough to give Eldredge first place with six of nine judges. Paul Wylie, using the same program that won him the free skate last year, got two first-place votes but wound up third Sunday. 
"Every time you win a na­tionals or any competition," Eldredge said, "it's meaningful. It's a great feeling to know I can do it twice. The second is even better, I think." 
Eldredge, Bowman, of Los 

Angeles, and Wylie, of Denver, qualified for next month's world championships at Munich, Germany. Bowman was third in last year's worlds, where Eldredge placed fifth and Wylie was 1Oth. 
Mark Mitchell of Hamden, Conn., who also skated well in the long program, slipped to fourth behind Wylie. They were the only two of the top con­tenders to draw a standing ovation. 
After Bowman hit all his jumps but showed little of the flair that marked his programs in previous years -when he was known as "Bowman the Showman"-Eldredge imme­diately followed with an even more difficult routine. 
"It's a great feeling to know after he skated so well I could come through and skate just as well and win it," said Eldredge, who won last year after Bowman, well behind in the standings, withdrew before the free skate with back spasms. 
Eldredge doesn't think his physical abilities are that much better than last year. 
"There isn't a big difference skating-wise," he said. "But the main difference is just maturity and overall appearance on the ice and even otT. I had a whole year of maturing and growing up and it helped a lot." 
In the last six months, Bowman has changed coaches and training sites. He also changed his ways on ice and that loss of sparkle seemed to hurt with the judges. 
"I was more concerned with how I did myself and what peo­ple thought of my skating and how it was received," Bowman said. "I was proud." 
Toller Cranston, the Canadian who coaches Bowman, was im­pressed with the level of per­formance he saw at these na­tionals. 
"This was like worlds," he said. "It was too bloody good. It was definitely not like this at Canadians. We didn't have this volume of tiptop (skaters). 
"Probably many of the American skaters going into worlds will have medals when they leave." 
Men 
continued from page 20 

The Owls scored the last five points of the first half, and then ran otT the first six points of the second stanza when the Irish couldn't regroup in the in­termission. 
"We're infamous for giving up spurts," said Irish center Keith Tower, who scored three points and had six rebounds. "We thought we could regroup and then get a spurt of our own. We have a lapse every game. That's been our downfall all year and it certainly killed us today." 
Said Bennett, "We were flat and they took advantage of it. They came out with the inten­sity. It was hard to fight back." 
One bright spot for Notre Dame in the second half was the play of freshman Carl Cozen otT the bench. Cozen hit 3 of 5 field goals for seven points, his biggest offensive output since he scored 12 points in the season-opener against Fordham. 
"My shot's been feeling good for the past week or so," Cozen said. ''I've been working on it in practice. I've been waiting for a chance to get in and show them." 
But Cozen couldn't put to­gether a comeback by himself. Notre Dame closed within 10 at 44-34 with 12:16 remaining but could get no closer. Temple scored 18 of the next 26 points to build a 20-point lead. 

Notre Dame had its only lead of the game at 6-5, but stayed close through most of the first half. The Irish trailed just 25­23 when the Owls went on their spurt and moved a step closer to an NCAA Tournament bid. 
"I'm comfortable with our won-loss record but I'm not confident with our consistency," Temple coach John Chaney said. 
"I've seen the best and worst of this team and this was a solid effort." 

Nappanee, Indiana
(219) 773-4383 

Bed & Breakfast
(219) 773-7034 

Only 35 min. from Campus 
Saint Mary's students: 
•2 
American Airlines tickets 

•Free 
long distance calls 




Win! 

•Gift 
certificates 

•A 
variety of other prizes 


Volunteers are needed for the 
College's Spring Phonathon Feb. 17-28 (Sun-Thurs.), 6-10 p.m. Third Floor, Haggar College Center 
Assist for just 2 hours any night and have a chance at winning one of more than 50 Individual prizes and awards! 
For more information, call The Division of College Relations, 284-4706 
SaintMa~'s Coli~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN ARIHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. invites all Junior Accounting and Finance Majors to a presentation on INTERVIEWING Tuesday, February 19, 1991 At 7:00p.m. Monogram Room Dress is Casual Reception/Refreshments to Follow  

The Observer 
Monday, February 18, 1991 page 17 
1 
I

lrvan beats Earnhardt and Allison to win Daytona I 
l
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Ernie lrvan, who tried all week to convince people he had a real chance to win the Daytona 500, went out Sunday and did just that, outrunning heavily favornd Dale Earnhardt and pole-winning Davey Allison when it counted. 
"It just proves pnople better listen to me next time," lrvan said with a laugh. 
His victory was aided consid­erably by Earnhardt's continu­ing ill fortune in NASCAR's premier stock car race, with a spin three laps from the end curtailing his chance of winning it for the first time and sending lrvan on to the victory under a caution flag. 
Earnhardt, whose heart was broken here a year ago when he shredded a tire about one mile from the end of what appeared to be a certain victory, tried hard to be philosophical. 
The defending Winston Cup ehampion said, "They're going to run another one of these things in '92 and I'll be baek." 
For lrvan, them was pure joy and some disbelief in his second Winston Cup victory and a trip to Daytona's Victory Lane -especially since he nearly ran out of gas after the biggest triumph of his 32 years seemed assured. 
Irvan was second to Earnhardt and Allison was sev­enth when the field was given the green flag with seven laps remaining following the eighth caution period of the race. 
By the end of lap 194 around Daytona International Speedway's 2 1/2-mile track, Allison was up to third and he and Irvan were hooked up chasing down Earnhardt. 
Irvan's yellow Chevrolet Lumina then took control, moving to the front on lap 195 and leaving Earnhardt's Lumina and Allison's Ford Thunderbird in a side-by-side duel behind him. 
"I figured I could have stayed behind him and pushed him to the Daytona 500 win or he could push me to the Daytona 500 win," Irvan said. "I can't think of anybody I'd rather see win this race, because he hasn't won it yet, but I decided I'd rather him push me." 
After he rocketed by Earnhardt, Irvan kept a close eye one what was taking place behind him. 
"I think I looked more in my mirror than straight ahead. 
"I remember looking up and seeing them behind me and thinking they're going to get in line and run me down. So I just tried to run as hard as I could hoping they wouldn't catch me," Irvan said. 
The two chasers didn't seem to be making up any ground on the leader when, suddenly, Earnhardt's car skidded and began sliding. He bumped Allison, toward the wall on the backstretch and Allison also spun wildly, eventually winding up against a dirt bank in the in­field. 
"When I looked in my mirror and saw what was happening behind me, I thought, 'This can't be true.' Then, after I took the white flag (for the last lap) I went into turn one behind the pace car and I started run­ning out of gas. I thought, 'There's no way this can hap­pen on the white flag lap in the biggest race in the world when I've got it won.~ 
Irvan drove down onto the flat apron of the track and got some of his remaining fuel to slosh back toward the pickup on the right side of the car. 
"That must have worked be­cause we were able to get to the end." 
"I was doing everything I could but I couldn't get no help," Earnhardt said. "Joe (Ruttman) was in and out and couldn't decide where to go. I think I lost some air ofT the car. We were running hard and I spun and hit Davey. I was just racing hard for the win." 
Sterling Marlin wound up second, followed by Ruttman, Rick Mast and Earnhardt, who was able to keep his engine running and finish the race. Allison fell all the way to 15th and Kyle Petty, who led several times in the race, finished 16th after wrecking in the fourth turn on lap 197. 
Most of the 200-lap event was a strategy game because of NASCAR's new pit lane rule, in­tended to make the pits safer. It prohibited tire changes during caution periods and forced the teams to make all their tire changes under the green flag. 
"I don't like the tire rule," Earnhardt said. "Not changing tires under cp.ution makes it hard on the drivers to. drive the cars harder. They have to drive them with a lot of push or they have to drive them too loose. You're really on the ragged edge." 
Darrell Waltrip, the 1989 Daytona 500 winner, appeared to have the race won going into the final 20 laps. 
Waltrip made only two tire stops, stretching the last one late enough that he was able to also take on enough gas -on lap 145 -to go the rest of the way without stopping. 
After six caution periods in the first 77 laps, the track stayed green for 104 laps and Waltrip was in the catbird seat, trailing only Rusty Wallace, who was in need of another gas stop. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~·~ 

& Co. 
~~The Castle 
Is Your 
New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 

• 
New Wolf Tanntng Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private 


Rooms 
• Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 
_ .........~272-0312 






~~d~3 ~!!~\~e1A -~ 
Closed MondiiY 
Study in 
London, England 
Plenty of parking-

Liberal Arts International Business Criminal Justice 
Mainstream classes with British students, plus specially designed courses for American students. 
All courses approved by UW­Piatteville and validated on an official UW-Piatteville transcript. 
$4,325 per semester for Wisconsin and Minnesota residents. $4,675 per semester for non-residents. 
Costs include: Tuition and fees Home-stay accommodations 
with meals Fieldtrips 
Financial aid applies. Summer Program also available. 
For further information contact: Study Abroad Programs 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 1 University Plaza Platteville, WI 53818-3099 
(608) 342-1726 



University of Wisconsin Platteville 

osu 
continued from page 20 
Neither team led by more than six points and there were 24 lead changes and 22 ties. Ohio State hadn't lost at home this season in 12 previous games and Indiana hadn't lost on the road in its eight previous outings. 
Indiana, which lost the first matchup between the teams in Bloomington 93-85 on Jan. 21, built a. five-point lead with 1:00 left in regulation. But Ohio 

2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
********* 

~ 

...is the ~ ~ faith of the Holy Cross 
State came back on two free throws by Jamaal Brown and two more by Lee to pull to a 77­76 deficit with 20 seconds left. 
After Bailey hit the front end of a bonus situation with 12 seconds left, Ohio State re­bounded and called timeout with seven seconds remaining. 
Jackson took the ball near midcourt and worked his way into the lane, from where he lofted a short shot over Anderson with one second left to force overtime. 
In the first overtime, the Hoosiers took an 85-81 lead on a 3-point field goal by Bailey with 2:52 left in the five-minute extra period. Ohio State, trail­ing 87-83 after another Bailey basket with 2:06 remaining, scored the next four points on baskets by Perry Carter on a rebound follow and Lee on a 10-foot baseline jumper from the right side. 
Jackson blocked a potential game-winning shot by Bailey, then forced Chris Reynolds to alter his shot at the buzzer, pushing the teams to a second overtime. 
THE HEARTBEAT OF NOTRE DAME 
Fathers and Brothers 
Through vision, work, and prayer they have given life to a great university, enriching our world with timeless values, caring service. 
Holy Cross also serves a variety of ministries: schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to the poor and others. 
For information about the one-year Candidate Program at Notre Dame write: 
Vocation Director Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Jamie Skelton, substituting for Mark Baker, who twisted an ankle in the first half, hit a pair of 3-point shots for a 94-92 Ohio State lead with 2:28 left. But the Hoosiers countered with a pair of Bailey free throws and one by Anderson for a 95-94 lead with 1:08 to play. 
Ohio State drew even on a free throw by Brown two set­onds later. Anderson missed a perimeter shot with 25 seconds left and, Ohio State took pos­session for the final time. 
Jackson, with the court spread as he worked one-on­one against Meeks, again drove into the middle. But under pressure, he passed to Lee, who arched his shot over Anderson with four seconds left. After two timeouts, Pat Graham's ofT-balance shot from 40 feet was long. 
Carter had 22 points, Brown 1 7 and Lee 14 for the Buckeyes. 
Indiana got 26 points from Calbert Cheaney before he fouled out. Anderson had 20 and Mlllt Nnver 10. 
P.l.M.E. 

MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's life through a misslo1111ry vocation 
~ 

The Pontifical lnatttute lor Foreign Mlaaionl (the PIME Milalonllrlee) ia an ~00111­munlty of Cetholic prina Mel laymen who make a lifelong commitment to continuing the miulon of Jesus Ctvill! In the modem worid. We~ the Golpelln ~.Brazil. Hong Kong, India. Japan, Mywvnar, Pllj)UII New GuinN, PhHipplnes, TalwM, Thelland and W..t Africa among the pocx Mel unchurdled. 
Founded In llaly In 11&0, • fiiVUP of dioc:e­un prieltll, • the ~~ of their bllhopa, grww In their understanding of jusl pre­cisely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer and ..mesa Mfvice, especially to the poor. The mla­alonary must leam how to be a sign of 8hared r.llh betwwn weH established European and American local churches and peoples where the Church Is just beginning. The missionary must know how to announce the Kingdom of God while IMHng a force tor transformation of those societal values which do not build up that Kingdom. 
II you are a young man betwMn 18 and 35, in good health end spirits, excited to live your faith in the mlaionary wey described above, .-Ill in or C8ll tor information today. 
''· John J. U.Jkll 
PillE MISSIONARIES 
35750 Moravian Dr. 

FMSER. MICHIGAN 48026 
....... (313J 781·2100 
The Observer 

page 18 Monday, February 18, 1991 
LendI beats Sampras to win the U.S. Pro Indoors 
PHilADELPHIA (AP) -Three weeks shy of his 31st birthday, Ivan Lend! says he's a long way from being through with tennis. 
"I think this is the first year of the second half of my career," the former top-ranked player said Sunday after beating U.S. Open champion Pete Sampras 5-7, 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 in the $1 million U.S. Pro Indoor Tennis Championships. 
Sampras, the reigning U.S. Open champion, said he ex­pected to see Lend! around for some time. 
"I think he's capable of being No. 1 again, but who's to tell," Sampras said. 
Lend!, now the world's third­ranked playe~ served 23 aces during the 3-hour, 20-minute match, the last three finishing 

Women 
continued from page 20 

as the Irish scored 14 straight in a three-minute span to take a 42-27 lead. Adrienne Spatz's two free throws broke the run, cutting the margin to 42-29 at halftime. 
The Irish pushed the lead back up to 49-35 with 15:17 left in the contest, but scored only 16 points the rest of the game as the Redskins re­grouped. 
"We tried to get ourselves re­organized and back into it at halftime," Wunder said. "The key was we came out and played better defense." 
As Miami clamped down on defense, Notre Dame became tentative on offense, going away from what had been working well in the first half. Knapp, Krissi Davis, and Margaret Nowlin combined for 28 first-half points as the Irish pounded the ball into the post, but only scored four among them in the second stanza. 
"They stepped up their de­fense, and we didn't play smart," senior guard Sara Liebscher said. "We didn't try Sampras in the ninth game of the fifth set. 
''I'm starting to feel finally that I'm beginning to under­stand the game a little bit," Lend! said. 
Lend! has won every Grand Slam tournament but Wimbledon at least twice and holds 89 career singles titles, including two in this event. He won in 1986 when Tim Mayotte withdrew from the final. 
Sampras, 19, won his first pro title last year in Philadelphia and went on to win at Manchester and the U.S. Open. 
Sampras was on a pace early to repeat his triumph, taking a 4-1 lead in the second set after winning the first. Lend!, how­ever, won the next five games. 
"Obviously it's not a good si­
to get the ball inside, and we didn't do the little things to get ourselves shots." 
Robinson-who led the Irish with 16 points on the night-single-handedly kept them in the lead. She scored Notre Dame's last 12 points of the game as it set numerous screens in order to get her open. 
The Redskins, however, kept chipping away at the lead until, with 2:34 left, Heidi Blomberg drove the baseline and hit a lit­tle six-foot jumper to give them a 62-61 lead. 
They pushed the margin to five before Robinson stopped the 12-0 Miami run with a jumper with 48 seconds left to cut the lead back to 66-63. 
Notre Dame then began foul­tuation, but you have to keep trying," Lend! said. "If you keep trying, some good things sometimes come out of it and that's what happened today." 

Sampras praised Lendl's powerful ground strokes and consistency. 
"I just think my game and my intensity kind of went up and down throughout the match, whereas he was kind of one speed the whole way and he was just too strong for me," Sampras said. 
Lend! broke service in the fourth game of the final set to lead 3-1, getting the break when he made a strong cross­court return of service that Sampras couldn't handle and hit a backhand into the net. 
Lend! served two aces to get 
ing in order to regain the lead, and the Redskins tried to oblige. D'Nelle Seiple hit only one of two free throws, and Robinson hit from the right wing to ·bring the Irish within two, 67-65, with 38 seconds remaining. 
After a timeout, sophomore Coquese Washington stole the ball from Blomberg to give Notre Dame a chance to tie. Blomberg stepped between Liebscher and Robinson, how­ever, to steal the ball with 11 seconds left. 
Still, the Redskins couldn't close it out. Blomberg missed the front end of the one-and­one, and the Irish quickly brought the ball up. Kelley Berens then stepped around Nowlin and picked off the entry 
~Cheer Cheer For @ 
Old Notre Dame 
Informational Meeting Cheerleading & Leprechaun Tryouts ~ Feb. 19, 1991 7:00 p~ & 
-':1:11' Football Auditorium JACC~ 
to 4-1 and an ace and two ser­vice winners gave him a 5-2 lead. 
Sampras served his 14th ace in winning the eighth game. Lendl's last three aces closed out the match in the next game after Sampras hit a return long on the first point. 
Sampras won the first set from 6-5 as Lendl's first serves deteriorated. With the score 30-30, Sampras made two sharp service returns, Lend! hitting the first into the net and sending the other wide on a cross-court passing shot. 
Lend! fell behind 3-1 in the second set by serving two dou­ble-faults in a row. Sampras started the fifth game with an ace and won it with a cross­court passing shot on the run. 
Lend! snapped back to win 
pass with three seconds re­maining, and calmly sank two free throws to seal the victory. 
"We gave them enough chances after missing some of the free throws, but (Berens) made the two biggest ones down the stretch," Wunder said. 
Blomberg led four Redskins in double figures with 18 points, 11 in the second half. Spatz and Julie Howell added 14 apiece, and Seiple chipped in 11, all in the final period. 
The loss drops the Irish to 18­




YES!! 
~~~~~-­
•.I'• 

the next five games, reaching 4-4 with two straight aces and breaking Sampras' service in the seventh and ninth games. 
Sampras saved one set point in the 1Oth game at 30-40 with a spectacular cross-court passing shot. Lend! gained set point a second time when Sampras returned a volley out. Lend! then served an ace, his 11th of the match, to win the set. 
Lend! got the first break of the third set in the seventh game, then served a love game for 5-3 and won four straight points in the 1Oth game to take a 2-1 lead in sets. 
Sampras had three aces in a row to reach 3-2 in the fourth set, broke Lend! with a passing shot to reach 4-2 and then ral­lied from 0-30 for a 5-2 lead. 
5 and damages their drive toward the team's first-ever NCAA bid. While Notre Dame still should make the tourna­ment, the defeat hurts its seed­ing and could cost the Irish home-court advantage. 
Notre Dame, however, will have little time to reflect on Sunday's game. The Irish face a winless Saint Louis squad Tuesday night, a perfect oppor­tunity to return to form. 
"We have to turn ourselves around and get back to where we were," Liebscher said. 
Happy Birthday Mike Nead! You're almost there and we're 
:~:proud ofyou. 
.,.. L
+ ave, 
:~: Mom, Dad, JoAnn, 
•.I'• 
:~: Frank, Suz, Tiffany, 
+ Patrick, G and G. 
•.I'• 
·~· 
·-c· 


St'1C Peace t3roup presents F'o~•ul Eu-Culture Group rnol.)l 9: 
A Dry White SeasonHistory of the Middle East 
Tues. 7p.rn. Carroll Hall 
Bp.rn. Science Hall Don~tion $1 TONIG.,T Find out ai:Jout the othgr si cJg 
-~ ---~---p--age-19---.---.1 
Monday, February 18, 1991 The Observer 
l I
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Sell to 51 From Nippon consumers
6:30 p.m. Workshop: Session I, "Career/Major 1 One of the 54 Saloon 
29 Squabbles receptacle
Decision Making," Room 303, University Counseling Marianas 33 Pub offering 58 Wields
Center. (For further information call 239-7336). 
5 Type of makeup 34 Break a cryptic 
Sponsornd by University Counseling Center. 59 Ingested
10 Peter or message 61 Collection of Alexander 

36-AIIey 

Norse myths 14 Storied lion 37 Digs up &2 Wire measures 
15 Navajo 39 Norse &3Adhereresidence underworld &4 Cars of the 20's 
16 Luminous circle goddess 40 Gallagher's 65EI-,Tex.
17 Torn vaudeville 66 Bedrock

LECTURES 
18 Concerning partner &7 Scene of a 1989 

19 Give off 41 Zoo favorites invasion 20 Nonresident 42 Deprived doctors 
44 Western Indian 22 Relating to 45 Sirens Iberia 
47 Sundered 24 Countess's title 49 Get up 25 Japanese 50 "Auld Lang grappling -" 

MENU 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Ribs 
Shepherd's Pie 
Pasta Bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
VAD. HOW Do SOLOI£115 Klll.lt-IG 
EK\\ On\£.1<. 
SOL'I'i:. 1\-\E 
W~LIYs PROS~Ms? 


I n\lt-IK GRD\'.11-t-UPS JIJ'ST ACT LIKE 11-\E'i 't.~OW WI-I"'I 11-\£'fR£ OO~G. 
I 

The crew of the Starshlp Enterprise encounters the floating head of Zsa Zsa Gabor. 


SHocKING! SENSE·SHATT£RING 1 

VRI-ENliNE's-DAY· 
NiERP1111N CARTooN! 

27 Skip 28 Mid-morning 29 Achieving 
people 30 Bottleneck 31 Growing out 32 Bridged 35 Mien, in Metz 38 Gourmet's 
coffee 40 Give sparingly 421mplore 43 Artwork for this 
puzzle 
SPELUNKER 

46"-the 52 Brunei is here season ..." 
53 Discussion groups

48 Barrie's enduring 54 Agitate creation 
55 Music halls 50 Squander 56 Famed aviator 
51 It can be high or 57 Space org. broad 60 --mode 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. 
Send to:  Name  
The Observer P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556  Address City  State  Zip  

1 
~~~---------------­
.. 

I Sports
page 20 Monday, February 18, 1991 
Notre Dame basketball teams have a bad weekend 
Men have trouble scoring points, Women upset at lose big against Temple, 70-46 home by Miami 
By GREG GUFFEY in double figures, led by Mik 
of Ohio, 69-65

Sports Editor Kilgore with 15 points. Mark Strickland added 14, Mark By RENE FERRAN 
HERSHEY, Penn. -Notre Macon and Donald Hodge 13 Sports Writer Dame came to Chocolate Town and Vic Carstarphan 10. with visions of a four-game Overcoming a 15-point first­road winning streak and a Daimon Sweet led the Irish half deficit, the Miami (Ohio) post-season tourney bid still on with 14 points off the bench women's basketball team the distant horizon. and Elmer Bennett added 11. stormed back in the second half 
Instead, the Irish turned in Notre Dame shot just 38 per­to upset 20th-ranked Notre their lowest offensive output in cent (19-50) from the field, Dame 69-65 Sunday before a seven years in a 70-46 loss to while Temple connected on 60 season-high crowd of 1,446 at Temple before a capacity crowd percent (30 of 50) of its shots. the ACC. at Hershey Arena that dropped The Redskins (10-13) broke a them to 10-15 and put those "We just didn't shut them five-game losing skid with the tourney hopes -be it NCAA or down defensively," Notre Dame victory which Miami coach NIT -in serious jeopardy. coach Digger Phelps said. Linda Wunder believes could 
"Temple had a great offensive revitalize her team. Notre Dame has seven games rhythm." "It's been a long time since remaining, including tonight's 8 we've won a ball game," 
p.m. contest with Creighton at Negative streaks have Wunder said. "Once our kids the Joyce ACC. doomed the Irish all season and started to believe they could Saturday was no exception. beat somebody ... they went It was Notre Dame's lowest Temple outscored Notre Dame out and did it." 
offensive total since a 52-42 11-0 in a stretch that turned a The Redskins led by as much loss to South Carolina in the two-point Owl lead into a 13-as eight points early before 1983-84 season. The Irish point advantage and virtually Notre Dame bounced back. scored just 47 points in an 82-sealed the Irish fate early in the Karen Robinson and Kristin 
47 loss to North Carolina ear­second half. Knapp combined for 10 points lier this season. The Owls placed five players 
see MEN I page 16 see WOMEN I page 18 
Irish men's tennis regroups and defeats North Carolina 
By DAVE McMAHON Saturday, DiLucia ousted 
we do it." he returned to face Jones at Sports Writer Swedish Tar Heel Roland After splitting the singles second singles, losing 5-7, 6-0, Thornquist in straight sets as matches with North Carolina, 6-4. The duo of DiLucia­
The Notre Dame men's tennis well, 6-2, 6-3. the Irish took all three doubles Coleman, however, continued team continued its quest for an "This was a good win for us matches, but not without some its dominance, winning 7-6, 6­NCAA bid with a weekend after the disappointing loss to dramatic turns. 2. sweep of Southern Illinois, Indiana," said DiLucia. "North . At second doubles, Will "Chuck's had some hard Illinois, and 15th-ranked North Carolina was very deep and tal­Forsyth and Andy Zurcher, luck," said Bayliss. "He had Carolina. ented, so it says a lot for the down 5-2 in the third set, over­some tough breaks go against 
While the Irish cruised character of this team to come came two match points in the him today. They go at him a lot through the first two matches back and play like we did." tiebreaker to beat North in doubles, and he's done a with ease, both 9-0 routs, At least one question mark Carolina's Thornquist and Chris good job of hanging in there." Sunday's contest with North was answered for the Irish (6-Mumford, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (9-7). Sophomore Mark Schmidt Carolina proved to be the 3) over the weekend in doubles "We came through in dou­covered a lot of ground over the
Ryan Wenger

match that showed the fans action. After a tough three-set bles," said Notre Dame coach weekend as well, playing at what college tennis is all about. loss against the Hoosiers, Ryan "I was really disappointed Bob Bayliss. "When you come fourth and second singles, and 
After taking a break from ac­Wenger and Paul Anthony with myself after the Indiana into the match and sweep dou­never looking back regardless tion in the Southern Illinois snagged three wins for the match," said Anthony. "I think bles, from a coaching stand­of where he played. Undefeated match, junior All-American Irish, including a 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 this was a win that we really point that's exactly what you after nine matches, Schmidt Dave DiLucia returned to the dual against North Carolina. needed as a doubles team. We want." has yet to reach his peak, ac­lineup playing the way he did Such a tough win could go a know we can compete with While sophomore Chuck cording to Bayliss. before his day off -with domi­long way in helping the Irish anyone, now it's just a matter Coleman was able to sit out in nance. After a 6-0, 6-2 win on pave their road to the NCAAs. of going out and making sure Saturday's match with Illinois, 
see TENNIS I page 15 

Buckeyes down IU in 2-0T thriller 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -It send the game into the first Bob Knight took over at Indiana was billed as the best game overtime and Lee's basket to tie in 1972. ever at St. John Arena. It may ·it in that period. Jackson also "The key was we didn't get have ended up being one of the disrupted two last-second shots the kind of help on Jim Jackson best ever in the Big Ten by Indiana in the first extra pe­that we needed at the end of Conference. riod and set up Lee's game­the game," Knight said. 
Treg Lee, who tied the game winner in the second overtime. Ohio State moved to 22-1 in the first overtime, hit a 10-"That play at the end of the overall and 12-1 while Indiana foot jumper from the left base­second overtime was designed fell to 22-3 and 10-2. line· with four seconds left in for me," said Jackson. "I got The victory ruined a career­the second overtime to give double-teamed and Treg made high 32-point effort by Bailey, second-ranked Ohio State a 97-a smart move and cut back­the Indiana freshman, who hit 95 victory Sunday over No.4 door. I saw him and hit him." 11 of 15 shots from the field, Indiana and sole possession of "Jackson made the penetra­including three of four from 3­first place in the conference. tion and I felt Damon Bailey point range. He didn't have a 
"That was a tremendous col­went out to double-team him turnover in 46 minutes, and lege basketball game. I've and I made eye contact," said had three rebounds and four never been involved in a better Lee. "I went to the baseline and assists. game," said second-year Ohio got the ball and shot a short "I loved Damon Bailey today," State coach Randy Ayers. jumper. It felt good when I shot said Ayers. "For a freshman, he 
Ayers had reason to like the it. I had plenty of time to showed why he's a winner." outcome. square up, but I had to arch it "Two teams played well to­
Indiana had a five-point lead high because Eric Anderson day," said Knight. "When that with one minute left in regula­was there." happens, both teams should tion and a four-point lead at The shot was perfect, ending have a chance to win at the one time in the first overtime. Indiana's six-game winning end." 
.,.....,___/~IW,·. 

It took a last-second shot by streak, stretching Ohio State's But only Ohio State took ad­
"..w--<1-x•···->'w<•..-;w:.;.,._ 
Jim Jackson, who had a career­to five in a row and giving the vantage of its chance. 


The Observer I David Short high 30 points to go with 11 Buckeyes their second season Damon Bailey had 32 points and didn't commit a single turnover, but it 
rebounds and six assists. to sweep of the Hoosiers since 
wasn"t quite enough as the Hoosiers fell to Ohio State, 97-95 . see OSU I page 17 
.... 










