,y,p, eo.z 
1.--P 'fl/ g 
, 0 I 'f 
v· FJ.-1F ; 'f 

FRIDAY , FEBRUARY ~, ~ 991 VOL. XXIII NO. 84 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students will stay in London 
By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
Rumors that students in the 
Notre Dame London program 
have been confined to their res­
idence halls and ordered to 
keep packed suitcases ready 
since the Gulf war began are 
false, according to Anastasia 
Gutting, director of the pro­
gram. 
No additional students have 
opted to leave London, and 
business is as usual for stu­
dents in the Saint Mary's Rome 
program, the ND Rome, 
Angers, France and Innsbruck, 
Austria programs. 
According to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of Foreign Studies programs, approximately 13 students total have left ND programs in Eu­rope since the onset of Operac tion Desert Storm. She esti­mated that eight students from Rome, four from Angers, and one from London have returned to the United States. 
"Life is as usual." Gutting said, "things seem to be in a very normal state, given the circumstances." 
The London students are not taking classes in their residence halls, as some rumors have suggested, nor have they been denied travel opportunities, she said. 
Gutting mentioned a trip on a Thames River "disco cruise," as well as evenings at the theater and opera as examples of the 
see ABROAD I page 6 
Allies bomb advancing Iraqis 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia 
reported evidence of five or six (AP) -Allied forces bombed Iraqi divisions -at least Iraqi armor headed toward 60,000 soldiers -massing Kuwait and snatched back a near there. Saudi Arabian town from A U.S. air squadron defiant Iraqi tank troops commander, Lt. Col. Dick Thursday after lighting the sky White, spoke to pool reporters in a fierce all-night battle. Thursday of intelligence 
Iraq said its incursions at reports that 800 to 1,000 Iraqi Khafji and other border points vehicles were moving toward

OPERATION
signaled the start of a the border. But after returning "thunderous storm" on the DESERT STORM from a flight, he said he did not desert floor. Another U.S. plane actually see a large number of -with 14 people aboard -• Iraq assault I page 6 vehicles. was shot down behind Iraqi • Gulf mail I page 6 At the U.S. military's daily lines. briefing in Riyadh, the Saudi
• SMC peace talks I page 7 
Baghdad also claimed it capital, Army Brig. Gen. Pat
• Israel under fire I page 7 
captured the first women Stevens IV said he couldn't
• Poll on coverage I page 7 
prisoners of the 2-week-old confirm reports of troop war. The United States refused movements. But he did confirm to confirm the report, but draw more blood from the the assessment that 
allied elephant-the "evil
conceded that a woman was Schwarzkopf delivered the day
coalition." as Iraq terms it. 
among two soldiers missing in before -Saddam Hussein is 
The battle at Khafji "is a first
action. far from finished. 
warning from the faithful men
Allied military officials "I have no doubt, based on 
in Iraq to all U.S. occupiers that
played down the significance of what we've seen over the last 
they will leave with their dead
the tank battle that raged for two or three days, that he may
in bags and coffins," Iraqi radio 
the better part of two days in very well attempt some further 
warned. An Iraqi newspaper
and around Khafji, on the action," Stevens said. "He may
forecast "a thunderous storm
Persian Gulf coast below the be looking for some sort of ... 
blowing on the Arab desert." 
Kuwait border. victory. He may be looking for 
During the battle for Khafji,
"About as significant as a some sort of an action from 
another battle raged 40 miles
mosquito on an elephant," which he can gain . to the west, near the Kuwaiti
growled the U.S. commander, Allied aircraft continued to 
town of Wafra, where Saudi U.S. Army Gen. H. Norman dump a firestorm of munitions AsotBa.m.EST 

troops and U.S. airplanes
Schwarzkopf. on Iraq's top troops in Kuwait,
exchanged fire with Iraqi
There were hints. however, 
positions. U.S. Marines see GULF I page 6 
that the Iraqis might try to 
Black leader Bond speaks 
By DAVID ZIRINGER 
News Writer 

"Our present is filled with a renaissance of racism," civil rights activist Julian Bond told a crowded Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium Thursday, explaining that he failed to find Martin Luther King's ideals present in 1991. 
We honor King for his commitment to racial justice, economic equality, and world peace, Bond said, yet the headlines proclaim contrary truths. Bond pointed to the Gulf War, U.S. economic decline, and the prevalence of racism and poverty to illustrate the absence of King's values in today's society. 
In particular he indicted the political and private sectors' indifference toward the underprivileged in the 1980s. 
The decade was a "festive party thrown by the rich," Bond added, a "decade of "private profit and public arrogance at the expense of people living on the economic edge." 
Bond is particularly critical of recent political leadership. He stated the U.S. elected a "an amicable incompetent" in Reagan, who took "the government out of the business of enforcing equal opportunity." 
Furthermore, Bush and Dukakis, in their '88 campaigns, painted a country where "everyday is the Fourth of July," while neglecting "a shadow America" of then and now, Bond said. 
A "neo-segregational" president and Supreme Court wish to "erase laws written in blood and sweat," Bond explained. Also, "for the past and present administrations, the Constitution is a document of infinite elasticity." 
Bond likewise decried a "second front against racial justice (that) opened in the 1980's." Academics, he said, united with industry to deregulate America. 
The effects of such attitudes have had far­reaching effects, Bond said. Increases in infant mortality and black poverty, as well as decreases in young families' home ownership and blacks' life 
see BOND I page 4 
Air supremacy

GULF WAR ROUNDUP 
Two weeks of precision air attacks have forced

Thursday, Jan. 31 
Saudi forces backed by U.S. Marines retook the coastal Iraq to abandon centralizedborder town of Khafji, Saudi Arabia, after an Iraqi attack 
control of its air defense. Gen.

that launched the first major ground battle Norman Schwarzkopf says theof the war. 
allies have supremacy over Iraqi ~-------J skies. 
ANorwegian ship has begun skimming crude ======~ from the 460-million-gallon oil Dhahran .t' spill now nearing a I 
SAUDI ARABIA
desalting plant. 
o Riyadh 

Media 
Most Americans believe the military should increase its control over reporting of the war, according to a poll from the Times Mirror Center for The People and The Press. 
AP 

Iraqi invasion 
Iraqi forces launched a four-pronged incursion into Saudi Arabia occupying Khafji. The Saudis, backed by allied forces, retook the town after aseries of pitched battles. 
Friday, February 1, 1991
page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A modern day fairy tale ... or is it? 
Once upon a time in a land not so far away there lived a very respected religious monk. The monk had dedicated his life to the formation of the characters of the young men who came to his university. 
He taught them to be honest and hard-working, to be kind to 
old people and to honor Lisa Eaton your father and your mother. Young men came Production Manager from all over the land to this________ 
university to learn from this great monk. 
One day the monk was greeting the new class of young men coming to his great university when he was struck by the face of a new student looking nervously around the room of new and strange faces. 
The monk went up to the boy and introduced himself. The fellow's name was Joe, he was the oldest of five children, his father went to this very university over twenty years ago, and Joe was very proud to be here. 
And so the years passed and the monk took the boy under his wing and taught the young man all that he could. Joe grew into what many grandmothers considered to be a "fine young man." He studied hard, supported his school and called home at least once a week. 
At long last, the day he had worked so hard for came at last. Graduation Day. In front o thousands of smiling faces, he proudly walked across the stage and accepted his diploma from the monk. In his eyes, the diploma was worth its weight in gold; it was the key to his future success. 
The man was a success. He had a job that was prestigious and made enough money for Joe and his family to live more than comfortably. He had a good marriage and was respected in his community. 
One day the man was in a board meeting and business was as usual when he was petitioned by the minority members of the board, who were representing the women and people of color who worked in the company, to adopt a discrimination and harassment policy. 
After some heated debate, the man rejected the petition. In his mind, if people were not being promoted it was because they did not work hard enough, they were not intelligent enough to do the job or they just did not want to be. 
As for harassment, it simply did not exist. What was the harm of a couple jokes here and there? As far as he could see, this was simply a bunch of bitter people who needed something about which to complain. 
Well, the man did practice what the monk had taught him. His diploma was indeed as good as gold, as could be seen by the gold in his watch . on his fingers and on his car. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 
Sports CirculationNews 
Frank Pastor Bill O'Rourke Peter Loftus Matt Novak 
Siobhan McCarthy Scoreboard 
Accent 
Rene Ferran Photography Sean FarnanRobyn Simmons Charmaine Martinez 
Production Michelle Devers 
Melissa Cusack Graphics Paul Pearson 
Jeanne Blasi Mike Muldoon 
Systems Viewpoint Cesar Capella Michael Krause Amalia Meier 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forecasttor noon, friday, february 1. 
Llries st1!JW l!lgl'l teffll)eratures · .·
WEATHER REPORT 
·............ COld ttont 0 Hlglt preasurelliJ SttowersQ Thunde~ tmowQ S\lnny ......., warm mmt f'l\. t.ow pm~~~~.~re·~·· Rain ··•·.·f71·A··A t:furrtes ·a·· 1ce •.
.. L .. 2.:::J.•· ctoudy 
.......... Stat1cfront V · · ~ .. <·• •4=1 · · · ... @t~ ~We$!hljr,l~··· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Ayerst Laboratories, the creator of Norplant -a reversible, five-year contraceptive inserted under the skin of the upper arm -is shipping kits to interested physicians across the country. ·Indiana University
Fla. Gov. labels women 'weaker sex' Medical Center was chosen by the manufacture as the Norplant training site for Hoosier doctors. 
• TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -Gov. Lawton Chiles says he was only looking out for women when he called them the "weaker sex" Thursday, but joked later that he would see a dentist to get "my foot out of my mouth." The reference WORLD came during a talk with students at Shanks High School about parenthood. He was urging young men to have more respect for women. "Being a man is allowing the weaker sex 
-women -to have a say-so and to have their own Egypt's President predicts end of war control," he said. • NEW YORK (AP) -Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak predicts that allied military forces will be able to drive the Iraqis from Kuwait within a month. In an interview broadcast
INDIANA 
Thursday night on ABC's "Primetime 
Live," Mubarak said the air forces of 
the coalition are causing considerable . • . . . . damage to the Iraqi military."! think Nude dancmg fight film a pOSSibility this way it may take three or four weeks, something like 

• INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A West Coast production this," he said in an interview conducted Tuesday in Cairo. 
company is researching Indiana's fight against nude dancing to see if it has the makings of a movie-of-the-week. The company recently asked the office of the state attorney general for a copy of the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that nullified Indiana's nude-dancing ban last May. The legal battle. which has drawn considerable attention from the national media, hinges on whether nude dancing is a constitutionally protected form of expression. 
New contraceptive available locally 
• INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A birth-control method recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration will be available to Hoosier women this month, officials said. Wyeth-
OF INTEREST 
• A NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING information session will be held Thesday, Feb. 5, from 7-8 p.m. in the Education Center of St. Joseph's Medical Center. For more information, call237-7401. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/JANUARY 31, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
187.59 "(} 1.57
204.24 Million S&P COMPOSITE A. 343.93 u-3.02 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,736.39 {} 23.37 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {). $7.30 to$ 368.80/oz. 
SILVER fr 1.2e to$ 3.805/oz. 
···.f!J•·.·. 
Pl. · 
Cloudy 
FORECAST: Partly sunny Friday with highs from 30 to 
35. Mostly clear and cold Friday night, with lows from 20 to 
25. Partly cloudy and warmer Saturday, ; with highs from lower 
to middle 40s 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Albany  29  22  
Athens  41  34  
Atlanta  48  35  
Boston  39  27  
Chicago  23  10  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  57  23  
Denvef  53  20  
Detroit  24  16  
Houston  82  66  
Indianapolis  26  14  
London  37  34  
Los Angeles  74  50  
Lubbock  62  25  
Madrid  50  32  
Miami Beach  81  74  
32  10  
38  29  
36  27  
38  30  
43  35  
55  28  
40  18  
60  46  
22  13  
50  36  
34  


V.P. hints Gorbachev could lose post 
• 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet vice president said the Communist Party's strength does not depend upon the leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev, and he hinted Gorbachev could cease to be party secretary, the state news agency reported Friday. Vice President Gennady Yanayev spoke Thursday, on the eve of the start of patrols by the army and Interior Department troops that republic leaders have declared a sign of a slide toward dictatorship. 

• 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS are invited to join the Logan Center clients for bowling today. Van pickups will be at Holy Cross Hall at 3:30p.m. and at Pasquerilla West at 3:45 p.m. Questions? Call Janet Kunst at 284­5090 or Sally Greene at 283-3783. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On This Day in history: 
• 
In 1861: Texas voted to secede from the Union. 

• 
In 1893: Thomas Edison completed work on the world's first motion picture studio, in West Orange, N.J. 

• 
In 1960: Four black college students began a sit-in protest at a lunch counter in Greensboro, N.C., where they had been refused service. 

• 
In 1968: During the Vietnam War, Saigon's police chief, Nguyen Ngoc loan, executed a Viet Cong officer with a single pis­tol shot to the head in a scene captured in a now-famous photo­graph. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~.-~--------------------------------~ 
Library disclosure system improved 

By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
University Libraries recently upgraded its process of provid­ing borrowers' names to inter­ested users by establishing a new automated disclosure sys­tem. 
Under the disclosure policy, if a user needs certain material which is currently checked out, the user may ask the circula­tion department to provide the name of the original borrower in order to contact that person and ask to borrow the material, said Kathy Blackstead, library advancement officer. 
It is possible, however, for a user to request that his or her name be kept confidential. A user can simply fill out a "patron confidentiality form," which "will indicate that my name should not be given out 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) ­A former Duke University stu­dent who posed as a wealthy French baron was a con artist with lavish desires, said a judge who sentenced the impostor to three years in prison for fraud. 
"There are various types of con artists," Judge Frank Bul­lock said Wednesday in sentencing Maurice Jeffrey Locke Rothschild, who changed his name from Mario Cortex Jr. and had claimed to be a baron. "I don't see Mr. Rothschild as one who did what he did and 
laughed all the way to the bank." 
But the judge also said that "Mr. Rothschild had lavish de­sires. His greed as well as the greed of others certainly con­tributed to this." 
Rothschild, 38, who has spent the last year in jail, was sentenced for bilking"two banks by posing as a nobleman from France's wealthy Rothschild family. He could have received up to eight years for four counts of fraud. 
The charges involved 
Happy Belated Birthday, Bridge Now you'll know not to mix 

to any borrower under any cir­
cumstance." 
University Libraries has al­
ways had a policy of both dis­$12,000 Rothschild received closure and has always after submitting false informa­honored requests for confiden­tion on credit and credit card tiality, said Blackstead. How­applications at the Duke Fed­ever, there is now "an auto­
mated circulation system which eral Credit Union and Wachovia can efficiently process the in­Bank and Trust Co. He signed formation that someone doesapplications as Baron Maurice not wish to have his/her namede Rothschild, once listing his disclosed to another member ofmother as Baroness Maurie de the Notre Dame community,"Rothschild. 
according to a library memo. 
Rothschild, who told the 
Signs will be posted at all cir­judge that he has serious psy­culation points alerting bor­chological problems, is eligible rowers of the option of the con­for immediate parole because fidentiality request forms, said he already has served a year in Blackstead. The forms have al­prison awaiting his trial and ready been sent to faculty 
members along with an expla­

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. ann.ounces the opening South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 

FRI 
SAT 
LUNCH 12-2 GRAD NITE 5-9 
and 
BASEBALL NITE 
come salute your favorite pitcher! 
Always wanted to be an Archie? Try some drafting tonight! 
closure, circulation staff mem­
bers had to search through pa­
per files in order to check 
whether or not the original 
borrower would allow his or 
her name to be disclosed, said 
Blackstead. Now, disclosure in­
formation will available on 
computer. 
Users' names will not be dis­

played on UNLOC terminals, 
said Blackstead. The UNLOC 
terminals display only that a 
book has been "charged to a 
user," and the due date. An in­
terested user who wishes to 
know the name of the current 
user must go to the circulation 
desk, where staff members will 
check if the user with the 
checked out material has per­
mitted the library to provide his 
or her name. 
University Libraries has also made some changes in its recall policy, according to a memo is­sued to ND faculty. 
Recall is the process by which University Libraries may recall a book from a user anytime after fourteen days after the user checked it out. The pur­pose of recall, like disclosure, is to address "the need for rea­sonably quick access to mate­rial," according to the memo. 
Under the revised policy, "a recall notice is sent to the orig­inal borrower establishing a new 'recall due date' 14 days after the date of this notice." After the new due date, specific fines will be imposed depending on how long the original user keeps the material. 
Faculty members can check out a book for up to a year, graduate students six months, and undergraduate students 28 days. Both the recall and dis­closure policies apply to all cat­egories of users. 
Death is forever. 
Heart di~ease 

Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to resolve i doesn't ha\"l~ to be. personal, relationship, and career problems. University of I Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used 
I

only when indicated. For appointment call234-5656. I 

GSU~~
TEACHING 
~ 
RESEARCH 
WORKSHOPS 
Prof. G. Lopez Learning To Teach: Real Skills and Helpful Tips Monday, February 4th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. 1 hr. general session and 1 hr. discussion groups 

,..
-
t t 
J,. 
page4 The Observer Frida)", February 1; 1991 
Library book thief is convicted 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -A defendant described by pros­ecutors as an odd man who "wears his underwear a long time" was found guilty Thurs­day in the theft of millions of dollars of rare books from li­braries and museums. 
A federal court jury deliber­ated about four hours before returning the guilty verdict on four felony counts against Stephen Blumberg. 
Blumberg, 42, had pleaded innocent by reason of insanity to all four charges, including 

Bond 
continued from page 1 
expectancies are consequences of our leaders' attitudes, he said. 
Bond returned to the 1950s and '60s, the years when King and his ideals were alive, to de­scribe "our democracy's finest hour. A voteless people voted 
one of possessing 21,000 books stolen from libraries and muse­ums in 45 states and Canada. The other counts related to thefts of musical instruments and stained glass windows. 
An impassive Blumberg was immediately taken into custody by federal marshals. A hearing Friday will determine if Blum­berg, who had been free on bond, will remain so until sen­tencing April 26. 
"The jury has spoken and we just have to go on from here," said Don Nickerson, one of 
abusive powers, arose from or­dinary people who didn't wait for mass approval or for charismatic leaders to organize them, as we do today. 
We must not become "King­dependant, summoning his memory as a substitute for ac­tion," Bond said. He called upon the audience to become involved in community organi­zations to reassert their demo­cratic power. In conclusion, 
Blumberg's attorneys. He and another defense attorney, Ray Rosenberg, declined to specu­late on an appeal. 
Earlier in the day, summing up 6 1/2 days of testimony, Rosenberg said Blumberg lives in a "time warp" and was driven by delusions to steal rare books from all over the country. 
Defense psychiatrists said Blumberg had a family history of mental illness and that Blumberg himself had schizoid tendencies. 
rights concerns as a Georgia congressman, writer, and civic leader. Presently he is a pro­fessor at American University in Washington D.C. 
His lecture was sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the Student Government, the Institute for International Peace Studies, the Office of Student Minority Affairs, and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter of the NAACP. 
with their bodies and their feet, Bond quoted early activist W. E. 
and paved the way for other 
B. DuBois, "I believe in ser­social protests." 
vice." 
$35,000 SCHOlARSHIPS:
He said those movements that Ever since he was a collegebegan removing gender and ra­
student, Bond has been ad­
cial impediments, as well as THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
dressing political and civil 
-~ :00.... ~.i\..-:r Chi,.M-A.-an Rnt•urant &
Cockt•ll LOIIf9 
Two-year NROTC
.,~U '~LL Auu,.,llc Sz«~~uan. ~· .. Mandarin & Hunan Culsl .... 

scholarships offer 
Lunches starting at--.--$3.95 
tuition and other 
Dinners starting at----$5.45 
financial assistance 
Bllr 1 Restaurant open 7 days 
worth as much as 
....... ~-11:311 Llll. lo 10p.rn. Fri•• Sol. II;;JOLrn.lo 11 p.rn. 
-& .-.,. 11:3:1 Lrft.lo IOp.lll. 
$35,000 to qualified 
1JI Dillie Way a., loudl hnd (next ID Randal's 
college sophomores. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees and gives you an allowance of $100 a 

Products 
month for up to 20 
months during your 
last two years of 
college. 
Upon graduation and completion ofrequire­
-Full Service Salon 
ments, you'll become an important part of the Navy
-Close 1o Campus -Tanning 8ed $ 35/month 
adventure as a Navy officer. Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging and rewarding program. 
1tle ~ CIUI. 4dt ~ 4IUt ll4d ~· 
A~ORIES -REPAIRS -LESSONS 
241 DIXIE WAY N • US 33 (OLD 311 one mile north of ) 
L T Tricia Vislay 
St. Mary's College
( Roseland 
Naval ROTC Unit Notre Dame 239-6065n274 

GUITARS_ AMPS MON-FR1.1200NOON-6pmCALLiorSAT.houra 
N.A'tTU RQTC You and the Navy.
CRATE. ALVAREZ-YAMAHA 
I 272-7510 I
WESTONE ·TAYLOR . . 
ftf I Full Speed Ahead. 
DICK WJSNER -OWNER 
FREE 
TANNING 
The Catholic Faith Series 
Models of Holiness in the Tradition of the Church 
Reflections on ways of holiness in the Chrrstian tradition with suggestions for the present in the light of the past. 
Lawrence Cunningham is a professor of theology and Undergraduate Director of the Department of Theology. Author of thirteen books, including the recent Catholic Prayer (1989). 
Sunday, February 3rd, 7:00 -8:30pm 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
NEXT TO VENTUR!: 
Sponsored by Campus MinistTy GRAPE RO, MISHAWAKA 
For further information call Sr. Mary Curran, CSC, at 239-5242. 277-79-46 
Dally9-8 





..... 
• Friday,. February 1. 1991 The Observer pageS 
\.

U.S. stations diplomats in Baltics 
MOSCOW (AP) -The United States has stationed diplomats in the Baltic republics and U.S. officials are encouraging sepa­ratists there to hold popular votes on their independence declarations, Baltic officials said Thursday. 
Estonia's parliament decided Thursday to hold a referendum on March 3, two weeks before the date set by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev for a na­tionwide vote. Lithuania has scheduled a vote for Feb. 9, and Latvia is expected to consider one soon. 
U.S. pressure for a peaceful resolution of the Baltic crisis increased after Soviet troops killed 13 unarmed civilians in an attack on the Lithuanian television station on Jan. 13, American and Baltic officials say. 
Since then, with the addi­tional deaths of five Latvians and one Lithuanian in Soviet attacks, the United States has kept two diplomats in each of the three republics to "act as a check on Soviet behavior," a 
i'ii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~i. n ...~-~r... 
U.S. official said. Expelling to reject secession. them would signal a renewed But "the past two weeks de­crackdown, he said. creased the chance of retaining 
The U.S. government never these republics within the So­has recognized the forced an­viet Union," the official news nexation of the Baltic republics agency Tass said in a commen­during World War II -they tary Thursday. had been independent between "Changes in favor of com­the two world wars -and had promises indicate that the barred its diplomats from Baltic governments have meeting with officials of the greater confidence in public previous Communist regimes support after the tragic events there. in Vilnius and Riga," Tass said. 
U.S. Ambassador Jack Mat­The U.S. ambassador de­lock and U.S. congressmen clined to say whether he has have been discussing proposals been recommending a referen­for a referendum with Estonian dum. But one American official leaders, said Endel Lippmaa, said, "We think it would be a the republic's minister for ne­good idea to show the depth of gotiating independence from support in the countries." the Soviet Union. "Gorbachev does not under­
"They stressed that such a stand how many Russians referendum is necessary for in­(living the Baltic republics) ternational relations," Lippmaa support independence," said said. one U.S. official, speaking on 
For nearly a year, separatist condition he not be further Baltic leaders have balked at identified. Gorbachev's demands for ref­erendums on secession. They Juozas Tumelis, chairman of said resounding victories by the pro-independence Lithua­pro-independence candidates nian group Sajudis, predicted 

in free parliamentary elections victory by a 9-to-1 margin. "We APPholo last spring were sufficient. want to clearly show Fighting the cold They also had feared that eth­Gorbachev the referendum 
Two Soviet soldiers try to keep warm by a bonfire while guarding the
nic Russians, particularly in results," he said. "This also is 
Latvia and Estonia, could vote our defense before the West." 
''.9Lre you reacfy yet?!'' 
Happy X9, Anne. Short + Nickle 
Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:il 1991 The Association ofAmerican Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes. Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep, has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests. and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work7Over HALF the students in medical school today are Kaplan alumni New test7 No problem. 
I STANLEY H. KAPIA.~ 
~ Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 f. '){Ill U Rl 'll A\'£ • 
5ili.JfH Bf \0, I 'li 466 H 
219/272-41 }') 
4/27/91 MCA T Prep Cldss starts 2/2/91. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 
7:30,9:30 
Radio and Television building in Vilnius, Thursday. 
Student body president candidates announced 
Observer Staff Report Pangborn Hall; 
•Nicole Farmer of Lyons Hall 

Elections for the positions of and Eric Griggs of Grace Hall; student body president and vice •Joseph Blanco of Alumni Hall president will be held Monday, and David Florenzo of Flanner 
Feb. 11., student government Hall. announced. All candidates are juniors. A 
The following tickets are in presidential debate has been the running, (presidential scheduled for Wednesday, Feb. candidates listed first, vice 6, at 7 p.m., but the location president second): has yet to be announced. The 
•Michael Ferguson of Stanford runoff election will be held Hall and Charles James of VVednesda~Feb. 13. 
JUNIORS 
Anyone interested in being the Chairperson of the Class of 1992's Senior Fonnal please pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, rd floor LaFortune. Deadline: Feb. 6 
******************** 
* * 
:TODAY, and every FRIDAY: 
** + ** 
* * 
* * 
~ SPECIAL MASS for PEACE ~ 
** + ** 
* * 
** 5:15P.M. ** 
~SACRED HEART CHURCH1 
** + ** 
* * 
* * 
~ LET US PRAY TOGETHER~ 
******************** 

r '' •-•'! tIt' It • o o I' I • It I I 
u 
I 
page 6 
OPERATION DESERT STORM Friday, February 1, 1991 
Mail provides comfort to soldiers under fire and stress 
ABOARD THE USS WISCON­SIN IN THE PERSIAN GULF (AP} -American soldiers in the Persian Gulf seem almost ob­sessed with getting mail from home, even from people they've never met. 
Correspondents visiting troops in the field or sailors on warships often are asked, "Did you bring any mail?" 
Seaman Mark Stallins, 22, of Parker, Colo., is perhaps the ul­timate reader. After a recent false alarm for a missile attack, he pulled out his wallet to gaze at pictures of girls who have become his pen pals. Then he pulled a teddy bear out of a locker and crawled into bed. 
"That missile could have been real, and we might not even be here anymore," Stallins said. "It makes you think about things. And we're not just pen pals. We're friends." 
He cultivates such friends, many of them acquired through "To Any Sailor" mail sent by volunteers in the United States. 
Heather, 16, of Wisconsin, wrote even though her father didn't want her associating with sailors. "She gave me her phone number and told me to call her if anything happened," Stallins said. "Of course something did." The war started. 
After allied planes started bombing Iraqi targets, Stallins said he asked his family to call Heather and tell her he was OK. 
Stallins said he especially appreciates the effort made by Cory, a 6-year-old boy from New Jersey. "He doesn't write much, because he's only 6, but he does take the time to write." 
And he was particularly struck by Shannon, a nursing student in Wisconsin. Stallins caught a glimpse of her photo­graph when a married buddy got a "To Any Sailor" letter from her. 
The buddy rejected Stallins' entreaty to let him take over, so he broke into his buddy's desk and stole her address. She didn't want to get involved, but Stallins was persistent. Now they've become friends, he said, partly because she writes about real life, not, ''I'm real glad you're over there fighting for us. Take care of yourself." And she sent the teddy bear. 
Stallins said he's going to visit her when he returns to the United States and may accept some of his other invitations: two dinners in Wisconsin, two dinners in California, one trip to Disneyland and two wrestling matches. 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
London students maintaining "routine" activities. 
Additional rumors about the Saint Mary's Rome program being cancelled are also false, 
Gulf 
continued from page 1 
the crack Republican Guards. Iraq, in turn, lofted another Scud missile into the Israeli­occupied West Bank. Israeli officials said there were no casualties. 
Members of Congress said after briefings from Pentagon officials that a modified C-130 equipped with small cannons and machine guns, part of a Special Operations mission, was shot down over Kuwait. Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., said 14 people were on the plane. 
A grim ritual began on the home front -the military began notifying the families of 11 Marines who were killed in the fighting around the Saudi town of Khafji. 
"He believed in his country," said Barbara Anderson, the mother of Marine Cpl. Stephen Bentzlin, 23, of San Clemente, Calif. "He was there for all of us, not only for himself but for all of us." 
President Bush declared Sunday a national day of prayer. He asked people of all faiths "to say a special prayer on that day, a prayer for peace, a prayer for the safety of our troops, a prayer for their families, a prayer for the innocents caught up in this war." 
A battalion-sized force of Iraqis had taken over Khafji ­deserted and undefended -on Tuesday night. The allies came calling about 24 hours later, when U.S. Marines let loose with artillery fire and Saudi and Qatari tanks and armored personnel carriers rolled up to the town. 
The battle lasted all night long. The sky was lit by flares, tracer fire and bursts of weaponry. At one point, U.S. Marines who had driven TOW anti-tank missile launchers to the periphery of the town were forced to retreat under blistering crossfire. 
"You couldn't tell what way they were coming from," one Marine captain said. "It seemed like they were everywhere." 
By midafternoon, Saudi troops were in control of most of the deserted city, and after dusk, U.S. sources said the town was all but rid of Iraqis ­except any still hiding in 
according to Peter Checca, counselor for the program. He said that nine students have left Rome thus far, although none have returned in the last week. 
Students in Rome are follow­ing State Department recom­mendations to maintain low profiles, Checca said, and have had no additional security re­
buildings, awaiting door-to­door searches. 
Retreating Iraqi troops continued to blast away at the allies with mortar fire. 
Allied officials gave no casualty figures, except to say that 11 Marines had died in nearby fighting Wednesday. No new casualties were reported Thursday. 
Stevens said the allies had destroyed about 22 Iraqi tanks. Pilots who flew missions over the area described bombing that resembled target practice. 
"They're moving in columns," said Lt. Col. White, 39, of Fort Smith, Ark. "They're moving in small groups and convoys. It's exactly what we've been looking for, and it sounds to me like he has lost his marbles." 
There were preliminary reports that 160 Iraqis were taken prisoner at Khafji. Previously, the United States had listed 131 Iraqi POWs under U.S. or Saudi control. 
Iraq had claimed to hold more than 20 allied POWs, but said Thursday it had taken an unspecified number of prisoners during the Khafji battle, including some "female 
U.S. soldiers." 
"These female soldiers are being treated well by the Iraqi fighters in accordance with the traditional treatment of prisoners," the Iraqi News Agency said. "They will be given good treatment in accordance with the spirit of the lofty Islamic laws.". 
LUNCH SPECIIlL Mon.-Fri. All Month 
Free Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Purchase 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30A.M. 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Across From The Hollday Inn) 272-7433 
strictions placed upon them. 

Charles said that the Inns­bruck and Angers students are preparing for exams and ar­ranging travel plans for their upcoming break. She said cer­tain restrictions have been placed upon them, such as re­quests not to travel in Italy, Greece, or any potentially 
IRAQI FORCES' FIRST GROUND ASSAULT 
For the first time, U.S. Marines were reported killed in ground combat during the heaviest fighting so far in the 2-week-old Gulf war. 
n 
10:30 p.m. Tuesday 

The first 1950s-vintage Soviet-built T-55 ta:nks::::_:::~~-,;~~~§:~tr!~
border from Kuwait. 
Some tanks had their guns facing 
rearward. asign of 
surrender. The 
Iraqis were 
met by Marine 
light armored 
infantry and 
tactical aircraft. 
n Wednesday morning

~Forty more Iraqi tanks invade and are met by the 
Marine light armored infantry. 

Saudi-led allied forces storm the Iraqi-held town of Khafji. Some light armored Saudi 
Iraqi losses: Ten tanks dntrorllll, nine 

forces make it to the center of the city, but other allied forces are forced into retreat. After 
prisoners capturllll 

repeated assaults the allies retook the city. 
Source: U.S. Department of Defense. Associated Press reports 
.&a-t, 1· 1/!M, 
Valentine Delivery ~ 
Candy/l1o9er!/B611oon8 
'lJ>-3~ 
OeAUm '35 reb. 14th m 
February Special All Month Apple Pancakes 
$JOO 
OFF 
No Coupon Needed 
?14/1/Uf 
1la~'4­
~~ 
"hostile areas." 

"We'd like them to confine their travel to within the coun­try they are in, Western Eu­rope, and the British Isles," Charles said. Students will be asked to leave travel informa­tion and locations with their program directors, although no additional security measures 
DETAIL AREA 

IC1 Early Wednesday ~ Late Tuesday ~Iraqi tanks and infantry f'~An Iraqi battalion invaded the deserted resort engage the Saudi Arabia National town of Khafji. Allied forces respond with attack Guard and Marine tactical air. The helicopters. invaders withdraw. 
Iraqi losses: Four tanks and 13 
vehicles destroJIIII 
0 Thursday 

AP/R. Tore, Karl Tate 
EVERY SUNDAY 
The Nation's Hottest Rock-n-Roll Bands 
'11118 >JUJLI.UI"&:J 
Doors open at 9 
•BRING DIIS AD, RECEIVE $1 OFF ADMISSION 
Just north of stateline on US 33. For more information, call Ritz Concert Hotline, 684-{)746 
18 and older admitted A RITZ VIP PRODUCTION 
are being taken. 

A female student in the 
Angers program was attacked 
Jan. 16 by a man she recog­
nized and thought to be an 
Arab. She suffered cuts and 
bruises in the incident. No 
additional reports of violence 
have been reported, Charles 
said. 
IRAQ 

. --~.1..1...~ :l.! 1:1 .i ' .1 .• :1 l 't l . ·:"I ~ ; ' • . ·: 
Palestinians fire rockets at northern Israel for 3rd day 

SHOMERA, Israel (AP) ­Palestinians fired rockets to­ward northern Israel for a third day and tried to infiltrate the border Thursday in attacks linked to the Gulf War, an Is­raeli commander said. 
The army said three Pales­tinian guerrillas were shot and killed by Israeli-backed militi­amen of the South Lebanon Army before Three other Palestinians were killed and 10 wounded when Israel and Arab forces traded shellfire in the wake of the border incident, 
Saint Mary's group plans to educate others about war 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Several Saint Mary's stu­dents, concerned that their fel­low students are becoming apa­thetic about the Gulf War, are uniting to organize peace talks to help students remain in­formed on the various issues related to the war. 
It is the Peace Study Group's concern that the student body does not know enough about the Gulf War. Senior Anne Hart described the objectives of the group as being to "terminate apathy and get opposing views because those who are for it (the war) seem to just sit back and say 'Oh, well...we're at war.'" 
Early in the dinner discus­sion, Sister Mary Turgi, assis­tant director of campus min­istry, attempted to clear up a misconception she said most people have of Peacemakers. "We're not just against things-we are for something. We want peaceful solutions." Turgi said. 
Concerning media presenta­tion of the war and an article called "Beat the Devil," Hart said that there is the "possibility of the United States and Iraq fabricating stories to make Saddam out to be a Hitler." For this reason, people should "think critically about the government and the war." 
Senior Toni Olivieri pointed out that even though there are women on the front line, "they are in a position where they are less likely to be killed." 93 percent of the jobs open over there (the desert) are open to women, according to Turgi. 
Junior Peggy Abbod added that women "cannot scream equal rights and not be willing to go fight, too." 
Since no one knows how long the war will continue, the possibility of a draft has not been ruled out. Olivieri said in the drafting process. "the twenty year-olds go first, then 20-25 with a lottery by birth, the 26-31 who have already served, and finally the 18-19 are called." 
According to Olivieri, a per­son has just ten days to become a conscientious objector. Three reasons why someone might want to try for deferment are "(the draftee) makes over 50 percent of the family income, medical reasons, or postpone­ment until graduation." 
Olivieri suggested that if one is in danger of being drafted and wishes to be a conscien­tious objector, "you should write to the local draft office and say that you want to be a conscientious objector. If there is no need for a draft at that time, they will keep it on file 
and know that you were con­
cerned should the draft become 
instituted." 
However, Rosalind Clark, English professor, said that for a person to be a conscientious objector, "you have to be op­posed to all war. You have to have thought about and articu­lated your views for a long time." To reinforce Clark's point, Ann Loux, also an English professor, said that unless a person "has a history of being a conscientious objec­tor, they won't believe you." 
Clark, whose father was a conscientious objector in World War II, is amazed by the "difference in moods (in the media and current issues). Peo­ple used to be interested in women and minority issues and now all you see is a dignified man in a suit or camouflage." 
Hart finds current events "very interesting," especially the oil spill. "We could have done it accidentally," she said. "Even though Saddam said he would (spill the oil), if we did it, everyone would automatically blame Saddam," Olivieri added. 
The Peace Study Group conducts organized discussions because they do not want au­thorities to do their thinking for them. It is the group's belief that submission to authority often lead& the masses to serve the commands of authority 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: Managing Editor Business Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 6. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTSManager Controller Art Director 
A t~o-page personal sta_tement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 
Lebanese police said. 
The early morning clash oc­curred in Lebanon, about two miles from Zarit, an Israeli town along the Lebanese bor­der. Two militiamen were lightly wounded in the firefight, said a commander of a border brigade who could be identified only as Col. S. 
He briefed reporters at his brigade headquarters in Shomera, about four miles south of where he said the clash took place in southern Lebanon. 

without making their motives clear. They want the student body to become more active in promoting peace by considering the following: 
•inform 
yourself about the history of the Middle East as well as the history of America's intervention in wars 

•think 
critically of the Presi­dent's motives in the war as well as how the press presents the war 

•ask 
yourself if war is ever inevitable 

•examine 
your personal feel­ings about killing others and ask yourself how you would re­


act to a draft 
•inform 
yourself about con­scientious objection and draft resistance; encourage your friends to do the same 

•ask 
your representatives in Washington about the morality of spending more money on better ways to kill than on bet­ter ways to live 


Future meetings will include a debate among students, a let­ter writing campaign to sena­tors and representatives, and lectures . The group will meet again on Tuesday from 5-6 pm in Mary Turgi's room, 111 Holy Cross. 

RATING THE MEDIA WAR COVERAGE 
Asurvey of American attitudes about news coverage of the Persian Gulf war. 
Percent that believe the military••• ...should exert more media control: 57% .. .is not hiding bad news: 78% 
Percent that bellerte news organizations••• 
...were trying to give an objective picture: 
72% 

...have been accurate for the most part: 
61% 


Percent who say the war depl'fiSSBS them: 
Women The study was conducted from January
64% 
25-27, 1991 illld is based on telephoneinterviews with 924 adults in ltle

Men 
continental U.S.; ltle poll has a4-point margin of 111ror.
33% 

Source: The Mirror Center for The People &The Press 
AP/Martha P Hernandez 

I 
ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE ~~ PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS ROCCO'S STYL~ SHOP 531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WAL.K-IN MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR  
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church Saturday, February 2, 5:00pm, Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. Sunday, February 3 10:00 am, Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 11 :45 am, Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C . ...  .....  

r·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------..... 
!1'
.. I 
t;· 
Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, February 1, 1991 
i ( 
!\ 
1 

! 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 

Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Edltor.........••..••..••.•.. Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor .••...•.•...... Michelle Dall Sports Editor ••••...•••••.••....•.Greg Guffey Accent Edltor.•......•....•... Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ...••....•.•••.•......... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager .........Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Viewpoint that Israel desires war, has influenced U.S., is false and dangerous 
Dear Editor: 
Clearly, Saddam Hussein would like to involve Israel in the war in the Persian Gulf in order to break up the coalition against Iraq. His terrorist at­tacks on Israeli civilians under­score his desire to do this. I was therefore disappointed to discover that Kahilil Azar of the South Bend Arab-American League, speaking at Saint Mary's College on Jan. 24, sup­ported Hussein's propagandistic purpose by voicing the con­viction that Israel not only has some involvement with the United States in the current war, but also desires a war in the Mideast. The propagation of such ideas and others ex­pressed in his talk is intended to incite U.S. anti-Semitism and has no place in the rhetoric of a man who is speaking out under the guise of peace activism. Spreading hatred and prejudice will not lead to peace. 

The war in the Persian Gulf is not a U.S./Iraeli war against Iraq; rather, Israel is one of many victims. No country so small, surrounded by so many hostile neighbors, would wish for anything but peace; Jews in Israel and around the world have long prayed for peace. The U.S. entered the current war for reasons of its own economic interests. The deci­sion had nothing to do, judging from what U.S. officials have said, with the welfare of Israel. 
Further, Israel's recent re­quest for additional financial assistance from the U.S. is not a bribe to keep Israel from retaliating for the unprovoked Iraqi assaults upon its country. Rather, Israel is suffering damage to its economy, its property and its people as a result of a war which the U.S. entered, knowing that its faithful Mideastern ally would likely be the innocent target of anti-U.S. attacks. 
I hope that Mr. Azar will truly promote peace as he reaches out to our community by re­fraining from attempts to incite further hatred and division. His observation that the peace agreement made between Egypt and Israel at Camp David was a joke especially saddened me. Peace is never a joke. 
Dr. Carla Johnson Saint Mary's Department of Communication and Theatre Jan.25,1991 

Dear Editor: 
In times such as these, the American flag often blinds its people. When the government asks us to show support for the soldiers, it asks for the support of war; it asks us to support killing. 
Those who heed this call, who believe the best thing we can do is to rally in support of this war, are being misled by a gov­ernment that chooses to censor the truth from our eyes. ·The military removes the war from the public. They destroy the realism of war and, in doing so, perpetuate its cause. 
We have been told by our televisions that some American and coalition servicemen have been killed. Civilian deaths have also been reported. These deaths remain numbers on a screen. We do not see these lost lives, do not feel them in any way. The meaning of life is reduced to points of light on a screen. 
For those who ask the nation to support this war, I ask you to imagine what it must be like to die under a bombardment that has lasted for almost two weeks, to watch death in progress. Military censored 
DOONESBURY 
television does not reveal what it is like to smell death hanging in the air, to die because of an­other's desire. This experience is foreign to us, yet we are asked blindly to support it. 
Hussein's actions are con­demnable, but how intelligent is it to respond by killing? What does this say about the moral values our leaders uphold? What does this say about us as human beings if we support such action? 
Operation Desert Storm, as dramatic as the name sounds, is synonomous with death. When we support our soldiers, we support death. How long will it take to realize that killing is not an appropriate response? Until the body bags start coming? Until the draft is reinstated? Until the truth of what is actually happening is revealed? 
I believe it is our responsibil­ity as conscientious humans to protest war. Protesting is about life, it calls for the support of human existence; supporting war subverts our ideals, diminishes our potentials. 
Christopher T. Crossen Off-campus Jan.25,1991 
Security stifles fans' attempt to back troops with banners while supporting our team 
Dear Editor: stifled when JACC security con­
On Saturday, Jan. 26, the fiscated our flag and our ban­Notre Dame men's basketball ner. Security told us that this team played Virginia, its first was JACC policy. nationally televised game since Many of us at Notre Dame the War in the Middle East be­have friends and family serving gan. In an effort to show sup­the Allies in the Middle East. port for U.S. troops in the We believe that in a time of Persian Gulf, we brought an war, exceptions to JACC policy American flag and a banner can be made. Having occurred reading "Support Our Troops" during a television time-out, to the game. our actions were not obstruct­
During a time-out in the first ing the view of those around us. half, we waved our flag and Furthermore, those around us held up our banner. Our actions supported our actions by help­were simply an attempt to show ing us wave our flag and hold the patriotism that character­up our banner. Therefore, we izes our campus to the televi­ask: What is wrong with a dis­sion audience. However, our play of patriotism when our patriotic display was suddenly country is at war? We hope that 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

this policy will be re-evaluated for the upcoming games, especially the nationally tele­vised games against Duke and Syracuse. 
All of us at Notre Dame are proud to belong to the Notre Dame family. But we must re­member that we are also proud to belong to the bigger American family. It is important that we at Notre Dame be allowed to show support for our troops as well as our teams. 
Matt Kelley Jim Kuser Sean Murdock Alumni Hall Jan.28,1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'I say ... let us be peaceful; but the only way to do this is to first assure Justice.' 
John Howard Griffin 
He JUSTJIJTAQ<£0Me IA/ITH­(l)lfT, l'l1ARDA. 
PR5TTYNICE 
01/T/AJARNIN(j ON TH& ~ /Q/TH A tU.trrlfR. PJ5TfXl I C4/.J,f;[)
HW'IJ 'IOU6/iT /l.UJPAINTON IF 
A COP, BUT 7Hl3 Cli1fi3P 
015APPE3/JR.UJ.' --..........
\ 
Viewpoint
Friday, February 1, 1991 page 9 
War not a sporting event to be cheered, death the only winner 
The imagery was incredible! The setting was that of a sporting event, but the rhetoric and signage was that of war. "We support our troops and ND Hoops," read one sign, on last Saturday, as Notre Dame played Virginia at home and Iraq in the Persian Gulf. The crowd was worked into a frenzy as students ran around with the bedsheets vandalized for this occasion. The crowd chanted: "USA! USA! USA!" 
Moments later. a different flag and a different chant: "ND! ND! ND!" Same crowd. same intensity. It made one wonder. 
Are college students so removed from the reality of the world's events that they can so glibly interchange those two realities for each other? And non-student fans: are they so naive and forgetful of wars past that they disregardthe fact that we .are not engaged in a battle to determine or assert who is number one in a field of play. but are involved in a battle of life and death? 
War is made more under­standable and, thus, more ac­ceptable, if we force it into im­ages we find commonplace and acceptable. Sports have be­come our metaphor for our battle in the Gulf. Basketball on Saturday; Superbowl on Sunday. 
Put flags on the helmets and uniforms. Sing the anthem as the game commences. At half­time, have a few words from the President and his wife, comparing the brave warriors on one field with those on the other. Play on the nation's emotions by parading the chil­dren of those who serve on the foreign field. Have the broad­casters speak tearfully and emotionally of what we are ob­serving, in case any of us miss an emotional beat. 
Coke can build the suspense by asserting they delayed their commercial until the fourth quarter, so the half-time pageantry can be played out (and more viewers might be available when the commercial does air). In the midst of all that love and support for every­thing our side is doing and against everything the other side does. have a newsbrief to admit we might have started the oil fire. Who would com-
Stephen P. Newton 
Campus Ministry 
plain? 
All the pageantry in the world and all the mixing of symbols and metaphors we engage in cannot change a very fundamental truth: we are at war, and war is hell. 
War is not hell only because some of our loved ones are missed and in jeopardy. It is not hell merely because we are reminded of it each day as we play and eat. It is not hell merely because it pre-empts our normal reading and view­ing. 
War is hell because it pits life over death and death has the advantage. It is hell because it is an admission that we still know of no better, more hu­mane way of settling our dif­ferences. It is hell because it is an admission that we cannot live long with peace. It is hell because it is the antithesis of heaven-the kingdom of peace. 
War is not hell because peo­ple die. It is hell because people kill. It is not hell because land is lost; it is hell because life is destroyed. 
There is a tone in the land and on this campus: if one is for peace, one is on-American. Only by being for war can one be a true American. (Maybe that isn't too surprising, since America was established on war and has been at war more than any other civilized country in the same time period). 
If that is true (and I don't be­lieve that it is), then one-espe­cially at Notre Dame-needs to reconsider: Are we Americans who happen to be Christians or Christians who happen to be Americans? Are our primary values those contained in the rhetoric of war or in the gospel of peace? When our own iden­tities are in conflict, which do we abandon or attempt to change? 
Whatever their political or nationalistic views, I would hope that members of the Notre Dame community might play a role of leadership in the nation by abandoning the juve­nile notion that war is a lark, like a football or basketball game, and if one doesn't sup­port our side, one necessarily supports the other side. 
The only sides taken in a war are those of life and those of death. That's not a game. Let's get the gamesmanship of war out of our systems this time, before our friends and relatives start coming back in body bags and before we get so immune to the atrocities that are inevitable in any inhumane conflict that we are too numbed to know what to do. 
Let the energy and enthusi­asm of our youth be spent not in continuing to advocate a cause that can only lead to death, but in establishing a kingdom of justice, love and peace. 
It would be great if Notre Dame were to win over all and the team we back were to win the Superbowl. But nobody wins a war. 
Except death. 
Rev. Stephen P. Newton is Director of Special Projects for Campus Ministry and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Decision made, banners unappropriate at games 
Dear Editor: 
Since military maneuvers be­gan in the Persian Gulf earlier this month, the Athletic Department has established several policies and procedures which should be made clear to University students, faculty, staff and others attending Notre Dame athletic events. 
At each home men's basket­ball game since Jan. 15, we have observed a moment of si­lent prayer for world peace just prior to the playing of the National Anthem. Our coaching staff and team have specifically altered their pre-game routine to be on the floor during the moment of silence and the playing of the National Anthem. 
In addition, our players have American flag patches­provided by the Midwestern Collegiate Conference-dis­played on the sleeves of their shooting shirts. These are the three acknowledgements that the University Athletic Department has chosen to rec­ognize the United States' par­ticipation in the ongoing situa­tion in the Gulf. 
We anticipated the possibility that students and other fans might bring banners and signs to games in hope of displaying their views on the war, and we made a conscious decision to establish a policy prohibiting their use and display. Part of the reason for the policy in­volves security, safety and practicality. The other part in­volves the inappropriateness of such displays, given the previ­ously-mentioned observances. 
The Athletic Department is not in a position to determine which banners, regardless of what they might say, should be deemed reasonable and which should not. The original deci­sion to continue athletic compe­tition-as opposed to cancelling or postponing games-was made with the idea that such competition should go on. though with appropriate ac­knowledgement of the current world situation. 
No one connected with the University or the Athletic Department has any objection to students making known their views on the war. We simply feel that there are other times and places more appropriate than our athletic events. 
Michael J. Danch General Manager, JACC Jan. 29, 1991 
In supporting troops, we need not back the damage done by Bush 
Dear Editor: 
honorable honest man? I sin­
Many on this campus accuse cerely think not. 
those of us who oppose the war George Bush came to the 
in the Gulf of failing to support Presidency with the promise of 
the troops. True patriots, we "a kinder, gentler America." 
are told, should support the Then he had "our troops" (his 
troops and support the troops) invade Panama to get 
President. The added "support rid of a dictator he had helped 
the President" is important, as I establish when he was head of 
shall come to. the CIA He and his cheerlead­
What these people exactly ers told the world"only" about mean by "support the troops" is 200 people had been turned never clearly articulated, but it into collateral damage. That has a strong analogy to was a blatant lie. The truth, cheerleading. I choose this which has since emerged, is word carefully. Many people in that thousands of innocents this country view the war like a were killed and that mass football game: our side versus graves were dug to hide their theirs, we've got to win, and the bodies from the cameras. How whole world's watching (I found kind and gentle. it morbidly amusing the The The media manipulation that Observer reported that the war accompanied the invasion of might cancel the Superbowl­be trying to annihilate our Panama was nothing compared -one big entertainment troops, but many are probably to the present lack of informa­spoiling another. What a shame doing it against their will. Most tion or solid analysis about that Americans can't watch also have loved ones in their events in the Gulf. But what­their football in peace). own homes, just as U.S. forces ever we're eventually told about 
Cheerleading is designed to have loved ones here praying the casualties you can bet it's a rouse a crowd in continued for them. Others are non­distortion of the truth. We support for its team. The combatants who have nothing simply cannot trust George crowd participation keeps the to do with the fighting Bush. Given his past record, players' morale high, it fires whatsoever. But these civilians why should we? them up, gets their adrenalin are casually dismissed as The slaughter in the Gulf is, pumping so that they feel "collateral damage." of course, no football game and strong and perform at their It is unquestionable that a very sick kind of media enter­best. Without that support, so many Iraqis have already be­tainment. But the best way to the idea goes, the players feel come collateral damage, thanks support "our side" is to show let down and are not motivated to our high-tech "surgical true concern for the welfare of to play welL This affects their strikes" on "military installa­the soldiers and to recognize performance on the field. In tions." But leaders in the mili­the oneness they share with other words, crowd participa­tary and the White House those they have been told to tion and cheerleading can affect aren't telling the media how destroy. the outcome of the game. many combatants or non-com­Support the troops, yes. But 
Translate this to the war sit­batants our troops have annihi­know just how you are support­uation. We are expected to lated-we don't want the ing them. And know who you support our troops by encour­cheerleaders yelling the wrong are supporting. Distinguish aging them in their fight, by things, do we? between the leaders and the bending the message that we're The huge control and censor­people of countries. Support 
behind the 100 percent and ship of the media brings me to your loved ones. But show that we want them to do their the important response to "the support and compassion for the best against Iraq. Go! Go! Go need to support the President" "enemy" you do not know or do U.S.! Beat the Iraqis! that usually goes along with the not see being killed on the 
This, of course, is extremely rallying cry to support the censored news. This is very distressing. What we are actu­troops. The "us" against different than supporting ally doing in "supporting the "them" mentality is integrally Hussein. Obviously no one here troops" in this way is encourag­linked to "Bush against supports him. But, for good­ing them to annihilate human Sad dam." Bush is "our" cham­ness sake, don't support George beings as quickly as possible so pion; therefore, we must sup­Bush either. that "we" can win and port him in his war effort. But Alan Crosbie celebrate the victory. Many of just who are we being asked to Off-campus these human beings may well support? A pure. upstanding Jan.25, 1991 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~~--------------------------------­

.. ".FEBRl!~RY 1 ::~ _ 
weekend calendar 
f~y 
MUSIC New Earth Blues Band, Club 23, 10 p.m. The Edge, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. XVZ Affair, McCormick's, 10 p.m. Good Question, Bridget's, 9 p.m. Heaven's Trail, Oar House, 9 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. Fun Flicks II, LaFortune, 11 a.m. -5 p.m. 

MUSIC 
5 O'Clock Shadows, Club 23, 10 p.m. Heaven's Trail, Oar House, 9 p.m. Harvey & the Blues News, Center Street Blues Cafe, 

9:30p.m. 
EVENTS Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. Blizzard of Bucks, Theodore's, 8 p.m. 

MUSIC 
Fine Arts Quartet, Mozart String Quartets, Washington Hall, 2 p.m. Tickets $2 students, $5 General Admission. Baroque music, Sacred Heart Church, 8 p.m. 
~s 
FRIDAY "The Navlgator,"Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. "Fiatllners,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY "The Navlgator,"Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. , 
"Fiatliners,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.  ·  
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST  
"Alice," 1, 3:10, 5:20, 7:35 & 9:45 p.m.  
"Mermalds,"1 :30, 4:15 & 7 p.m.  
"Eve of Destruction,"9:20 p.m. "Three Men and a Little Lady,"1:10 p.m.  \  
"Lionheart,"3:20, 5:30, 7:40 & 9:50p.m.  
"Kindergarten Cop,"1, 3:10, 5:20, 7:30 & 9:40p.m. "Dances With Wolves, "1 :15, 4:45 & 8:15 p.m.  ..1 1  

"Grlfters,"1 :40, 4:30, 7 & 9:25 p.m. ~.~ 
The Observer I Michelle Roch These five Keenanites, four with pillowcases over their heads and one doing a handstand, provide sufficient proof for the title of their skit, "People Are Strange." 
Post-revue SYR replaces traditional Saturday party 
By ELIZABETH VIDA pulled during the party. "We unorganized chaos that would Accent Writer found that, after the alarms inevitably occur after Satur­were turned off and people day's show with a total ban), 
I 
n past years, one of the were coming back into the they wanted an SYR. 
more memorable building, a large number of the Lacher said, "Keenan Hall 
events connected with people had no tickets to the puts out a gift to the Notre 
, the Keenan Revue was party," Yocum said. Dame and Saint Mary's com­the post-revue party Whether the alarms were munity. You meet all th~se peo­held in Keenan Hall the night of pulled purposefully in order to ple in the hall while putting to­the last show. With 300 allow friends waiting outside to gether the show, and some Keenanites (and 900 of their join the party, Yocum can only gathering afterwards is a great friends from other halls) guess. way to show success. It's form celebrating the success of the isn't the key. The group getting show, the party grew in fame as The third reason was the sig­together is the important a great time, almost eclipsing nificant amount of underage thing." the Revue itself in popularity drinking that occurred at the In order to get the SYR, and tradition. party. Keenan Hall had been Yocum and the others had to This year, however, there will granted an exception to the make concessions. No longer be no party. University Alcohol Policy by the will there be drinking in the Instead, Keenan Hall will hold administration, allowing party­hallways, parietal exceptions, a hall semi-formal, along with goers to drink in the hallways or three tickets for each the accompanying one-date re­(an exception that had also Keenan resident. Instead, all striction. This change from the been granted to other events, the rules of an all-hall semi 15-year-old Keenan Revue tra­Yocum added). They had also formal, including only one date dition was handed down by been granted extended pari­to each Keenanite, will be fol­Student Affairs last summer etals (until 3:00 a.m.). lowed. upon review of last year's post­However, with the large num­Also, security will be very revue party. ber of guests at the party, the tight. Besides the normal "The administration banned it office of Student Affairs clearly Keenan Hall resident assistants, because there had been too felt, especially after last year's who will all be on duty and much trouble in the past, at fire alarm fiasco, that the ex­posted at every exit in the previous parties," Keenan Hall ceptions were being abused. building, two hired security vice President Tony Yocum The initial decision by Student guards will roam the hallways explained. Affairs to ban any post-revue during the night, monitoring Yocum listed the reasons celebration was eventually the number of people and the given by Student Affairs for the amended to allow an SYR, drinking. initial cancellation of any post­thanks largely to the efforts of "These were the concessions revue celebration at all. The Brother Bonaventure Scully, the we had to make, and we're very first reason was the excessive rector of Keenan Hall; Revue glad that some sort of post-re­number of people in the build­Director Joe Lacher; Revue vue event got reinstated," said ing. There was a substantial Producer Tom Lynch; Yocum Yocum. "A type of celebration amount of guests in the hall, and Jason Rosemurgy, Keenan for success should be awarded including people who weren't Hall's president to us, and the celebration after invited but wanted to come be­They presented a 12-page the last show is one of its cause of the party's reputation. proposal to the Office of Student greatest awards. But in the end, The second reason, and per­Affairs at the beginning of the the show was the most im­haps the most important reason school year, stating that, portant thing here, and we for the party's cancellation, was instead of having the traditional don't want to do anything to the number of fire alarms post-revue party (or risk losing the show." 




features lineup 
which has almost as many correspondents as CNN. 
A little closer to home, there are the obligatory ND basket­ball jokes, but Digger takes a back seat to Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Af­fairs, who gets honorable men­tion several times throughout the Revue. 
Even if some of the skits miss their marks, the TV show tunes used to bridge the gaps be­tween them are guaranteed to keep the audience entertained. Students will be unable to resist singing along to selections which range from "Sesame Street" to "The Love Boat." 
The Revue is true to its kinder, gentler image. Many of the usual stereotypes are avoided, and the ribald humor which characterized past Re­vues has been heavily rationed. Those who valued this aspect of the show might be disap­pointed. 
Overall, this year's Revue has a little trouble during takeoff and a bit of a rough landing, but there are several times throughout the show when the Keenanites are flying high. The show's high points are worth the trip to O'Laughlin Audito­rium tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. for a good laugh. 

' 
15th annual show a 'kinder, gentler' 
By ROBYN SIMMONS 
and ALISON COCKS 
Accent Writers 
omeone gave the men 

S 
of Keenan a crash 
course in decorum. 
The Keenanites 

waste no time in informing the audience that they were asked to prepare a "kinder, gentler" show for the 15th annual Revue. 
The opening number promised "You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet," and for the first several minutes of the show, it looked as if that would be the case. 
The Revue got off to a rather slow start. The first five skits were either flat or uproariously funny. "Flunk You Out" falls into the uproariously funny category, with champion body­builders Hans and Franz as chemistry professors. 
The first act of the show fi­nally takes off with "Wargames." The tension be­tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women erupts into a hi­larious (and beautifully chore­ographed) confrontation, as women from both campuses battle to seduce underwhelmed ND men. 
Every year the Keenan Revue stages a Dining Hall skit, and it usually turns out to be one of the best sketches. This year is no exception. "Dining Hall Gladiators" offers a card­punching competition, Babushka, the Romanian dining hall worker, and Sloth, the slowest dining hall worker in the world. 
The momentum that the first act picks up and maintains is never quite recovered in the second act. None of the sketches completely falls flat, but there are less belly laughs and more one-liners. Some of the shorter sketches are the strongest. "Lionheart" is Damme brief, but Damme funny. 
Those who maintain that sanity still pervades Keenan, even during the Revue, need only watch "People Are Strange" to change their minds. A few guys let the creative juices flow for this skit, with the aid of a few pillowcases in odd places and a Bart Simpson mask in a strategic location. 
The Revue also touches on current events at home and abroad. The Persian Gulf War is the topic of two sketches, "U.N. Interpreter" and "Baghdad Cafe," (which both fall into the 'say it, don't spray it' category) and it also makes headlines during the Keenan Revue News, 


The Observer I Michelle Roch 

Even the Persian Gulf War is fair game for ridicule by the Keenanites. Iraq is the basis of two Revue sketches, "Baghdad Cafe" (featured here) and "U.N. Interpreter". 
The last temptation of an American president 

Christian president; yielding to
I Jove Nick and Jeannie with 
"Then Abram bound the all my heart. I watched them youth with belts and straps/ the temptation, he could start grow up as representatives of Father Robert Griffin And builded parapets and twisting the arms of other the best and brightest of our trenches there/ And stretched world leaders he needed to Notre Dame students. I forth the knife to slay his son./ support his decision. He wanted
Letters to a Lonely God
presided at their wedding and When lo! an angel called him to use force sooner rather than baptized their two children. out of heaven/ Saying, Lay not later, the London Times and the New York Times both told us,
Charles Lamb wrote an essay of the gods, for George Bush is roamed the grounds in the thy hand upon the lad/ Neither on "the dream children" whom playing dice with human sur­early hours with his dogs ... He do anything to him. Behold/ A because he wanted the shooting he loved. I've written a half­vival. got the idea for a Billy Graham ram, caught in a thicket by its to start before his frail coali­
dozen Observer columns on This war he has master­church service at Fort Myers ... horns/ Offer the Ram of Pride tion fell apart, or before he 
Nick and Jeannie as Domers minded could turn nuclear and the hawkish evangelist instead of him./ But the old could lose the backing of his 
who have become more than overnight, as Saddam has ex­roared in from North man would not do so/ but slew country. It's dreadful to think, as
dream children to me. plicitly warned us. "Militarily." Carolina ... his son/And half the seed of Eu­Nick was an ROTC student, Bush says, "launching SCUD "In these final days, Bush was rope, one by one." some cynics have alleged, that commissioned at graduation to missiles at Israel doesn't make at his best. But as he said over The near-sacrifice of Isaac our President wanted his war 
started and over with, so thatserve in the Navy aboard nu­sense. Spilling Kuwaiti oil into and over during the tense may have been the event that the body bags, coming homeclear subs. He left the Service the Persian Gulf seems like the hours, 'There's a long, tough brought an end to human sacri­from the front, can be out of
two years ago, but at Christ­last gasp reaction of a mad­road ahead for real peace."' fice in the Jewish religion. mas time, he was reactivated man." It must take a Jot of soul­Christ, says the Bible, died to sight before his re-election and is on duty at a desk job in Our experience in Vietnam searching to start a war which save us all. Jesus praised the campaign starts next year. Washington. Last week, Nick, should have put us on notice to all our religious leaders--with love which makes anyone gen­I'm not comfortable laying Jeannie and I spent an hour on wait and see how effective our the possible exception of Billy erous enough to lay down his guilt on the Commander-in­the telephone discussing the sanctions against Iraq would Graham--have condemned as as life for his friend. Chief. If there's one word which current unpleasantness in the be. Why would a statesman an unthinkable option. You Christians have never been chimes through his rhetoric, Persian Gulf. start a war now in order to must truly need to screw your strangers to the idea of self­it's the word "peace." In trou­
Yesterday, I felt jolted by the prevent a war later that he courage to the sticking point to sacrifice. War deaths are not bled times, the Establishment way that this best-beloved cou­could conceivably find peaceful reach out your hand toward limited to sacrificial deaths in always appeals to the ideal of 
ple talked down to me in the ways of avoiding? that forbidden fruit. the field among soldiers who "God's gentle sleeping peace" note they sent: "The subject of Time magazine gave us the Like Christ in Gethsemane, have consented to die for their as the dream of a new day war, particularly when it is not details of the President's psy­you must really sweat blood as country. War deaths occur when peace has a chance, after in the abstract, will always be chodrama. "A day before the you look for grace under pres­among children too young to bloodshed has paid for it. difficult. You don't have to Iraqi deadline was to run out... sure, inspiring you to accept understand what words like This century has been very apologize for your position on 'If it came to force, when?' that cup of suffering--which. of "sacrifice" or "freedom" mean. hard on the young. If you ever the war. You came by it hon­somebody asked. 'Sooner course, you will not hold to As Christians, we agree that saw young Nickie, the first­estly and thoughtfully-yours is rather than later,' said Bush. your own lips. but to the lips of the practice of human sacrifice born of Jeannie and Nick, at not a knee-jerk reaction. We all Level voice, even soft. No table faceless victims half a world is unacceptable to God. How play with his sister in his child's hope that it goes well and ends pounding, but stunning every away. come this practice must be ac­garden of verses, you might 
soon." person there... Wilfred Owen wrote a poem ceptable to us as Americans, if remember the old war poem I don't feel I was apologizing "Over Christmas, he came to called "The Parable of the Old we want to be patriots? Must about arms and the boy: "For when I described the war as the terms with himself. Back at the Man and the Young": "So Christian patriots subscribe to his teeth seem for laughing unfolding of a tragedy. Gott White House from Camp David, Abram rose, and clave the human sacrifice--euphemisti­round an apple./ There lurk no wurfelt nicht ("God does not he told his staff, 'I have re­wood, and went/ And took the cally described as "collateral claws behind his fingers sup­play dice"), said Einstein in his solved all moral questions in fire with him, and a knife./ And casualties"--because our fear­ple;/ And God will grow no 
habitually expressed reaction my mind. This is black and as they sojourned both of them less leader has resolved all talons at his heels/ Nor antlers to the quantum theory. Should I white, good versus evil.' ... together/ Isaac the first-born moral questions--of black and through the thickness of his apologize for the fear I have? "All through last week, there spoke and said, My Father/ white, good versus evil--in his curls." The American president is was a kind of studied normality Behold the preparations, fire mind? Thousands like him perish in tempted to hubris, or the pride about the President. He moved and iron/ But where the lamb War with Saddam may have every war fought to make the that brings down the vengeance in his familiar ways... he for this burnt-offering?I been the last temptation of our world better. 

If you are looking to beat the February blues, 
The Observer wants you 
With the dark, cold months of February and March just around the corner, The Observer is looking for new faces in all departments-from Ad Design to Sports and everything in between. If you're interested in joining the almost 200 crazy people who have beaten the study-class-study routine, now is the perfect time. Come see us at The Observer office, 314 LaFortune, or call us at 239-5303. Join now and go crazy with us this spring. 
The Observer: The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer accepts classrtieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must ba prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND ave and Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION Invites all Grad. Students, Faculty and Staff Members 
to the FRIDAY AFTERNOON CLUB! This Friday, and every Friday at the Alumni-Senior Club 
5:00 PM -9:00 PM NO COVER -FREE FOOD 
TYPING term papers/reports/letterS/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy 
Lock up your daughter Lock up your wife Lock up your back door And nun for your life ... 
Weazel returns with his big organ ... and the band "GOOD QUESTION" 
the best in blueS/rock Bridget's Friday Night 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Nikon Camera & Case Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26 at Law School Party in the JACC Monogram Room. If picked up or found, please contact 273-9236. You will be rewarded for your honesty. $$$$$$$ 
LOST: DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE RING. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. 283-3097. 
LOST: Clear plastic dress bag filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. Was left hung over wire fence behind Breen-Philips on Dec. 21. Sweater of great sentimental value inside. If found, please call Erin at x1458. 
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of a link design. Great sentimental value. Reward. Phone 2156 (Maria). 
FOUND: portable CD player call Tom at1155 
LOST ON MONDAY AT ACC: GOLD-AND-SILVER-COLORED WATCH. ACOMMEMORATIVE 
GIFT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD! PLEASE CALL 2710621. 
LOST -DETEX. REWARD. 283­
4909. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO. ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES. SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771 , DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER 
CHILDREN'S CAMPS­
NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 
WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN 
THE NORTHEAST. GOOD 
SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, 
TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY. ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
GRAPHIC ARTIST STUDENT NEEDED FOR FREE LANCE WORK. CALL IHRD 233-4493. 
MACINTOCH EXPERTISE NEEDED. WE HAVE SOFTWARE· NEED HELP INSTALLING AND CLEANING UP. CALL IHRD 233­4493. 
WANTED-Female Housemate to share house in nice neighborhood 5 min. from campus. $240w/ util. call Angie 234-5316 
GROUP HOMES Several live-in or shift positions available working in group homes for children or adults with mental retardation. Moderate pay; challenging work. Spring interviews available. If you have training or volunteer experience working with individuals having developmental disabilities, send your resume to: Griff Hogan '71 RHMR 3030 West Fork Road Cincinnati, Ohio 45211 
FOR RENT 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to campus. Only $150/month. Call Paul287-2159. 
Need rooms for Jr. Parent's Week? CAll Home B &B. 291-0535. 
SHARP houses, '91-'92 yr. Many ex1ras. 288-5653 or 234-3831 
3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 
Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514. 
MARION ST. FRAT HOUSE 
Rent for '91-'92 year 
For 8 people@ $160/mnth. 
Utilities & Furniture ex1ra 
Call Jon@ 289-1015 
between 5 and 6 pm. 

Efficiency apartment 1 mile to ND 
campus.$250 a month. Call Don 
1.6830175 after 6om. 
FOR SALE 

ROLEX WATCH, lady's, new, orig. 
cost $3,000. Sacrifice. Dan 289­
2797. 
' 
1980 Datsun 200sx,5spd,runs 
great,30mpg,perfect college 
car,asking $500,x-1617 
286 computer,40MB 

HD, 1 MB,3.5&5.25HD,VGA,Iots of 
ex1ras,asking $1300,x-1617 
New Kids 2tix x1311 Tami 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 DUKE G.A.'S 
DAVE 1417 
FOR SALE 
TWO DUKE STUDENT TIX 
CALL DAVE AT# 3024 
2 PENN & TELLER TIX 
15TH ROW FRI, FEB 8 
STAR PLAZA CALL 234-2527 
LEAVE MESSAGE 

KEENAN REVUE TICKETS I have 2 tickets for Friday night and want to trade for 2 for Saturday night. Call Caroline at x4049 
PERSONALS 

A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $299! DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY $99! SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, summer, J-term, Graduate, and Internship programs. All programs run under $6000. Call Curtin University at 1­800-878-3696. 
DO YOU ENJOY WORKING WITH PEOPLE? If you are searching for an opportunity that will allow you to earn an exceptionally large income while helping people, call291-2964 for an appointment. 
PREGNANT? Happily-married Catholic parents, full time stay-at­home mom and devoted dad, eager to adopt. Will provide strong faith; lots of love; two excited brothers; large ex1ended family; opportunities include college and travel. We enjoy week-ends at our lake cottage and mini-vacations with friendS/children. Paid medical, legal, counseling, housing, and living expenses. Call COLLECT: 0-317-253-8838, Extension 255 and let us help you. 
SPRING BREAK '91 
BAHAMAS/CANCUN from $375 
CALL NOW!!! 277-0253: MIKE 
Guys call Liz Joyce, the hottest 
woman on campus, 284-4215 and 
wish her a happy birthday. 

Liz Joyce you are the best cousin anyone could ask for. Party On! And be excellent to yourself. Happy B-Day! You Rock! love, Cathy 
LIZ JOYCE IS THE GODDESS OF LOVE CALL AND ASK THIS BLONDE HAIRED BEAUTY TO YOUR NEXT SYR OR ON A DATE. 284-4215. 
TOP 5 KARIN GRACE QUOTES -Wow...tubular...tongue ... plastic -I've always wanted to tongue the Ricker! -I'm eating cheese whiz and 
crackers...why don't you like 
me? -Shot down ...in a blaze of 
glory... -I love you Donald...BLEEEEEEH Stop by the round table and wish her a happy 21st! 

To the chemical industry: You can'tlet Gloria get away for so little. Jump on her now. She doesn't want to be a weekend wife. -the ChEg Class of 1991 
WHO'S PLAYING AT BRIDGET'S TONIGHT? 
GOOD QUESTION?!? MUSIC STARTS@ 10 PM. 

ADOPTION: Christian couple seeks to adopt white infant. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad and answer our prayers. Please call Harry and Melody collect at (219) 259-0585 any time. 
Anyone interested in playing at 
"The Coffeehouse" contact 
Jim@ X4061 
LONDON SPRING '90!!!! GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND HAVE A PINT. MEET AT COACH'S MON. FEB. 4 @ 9P.M. ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA X 4034. 
JOHN O'BRIEN, 
Your fleeting beauty longs to be 
captured by my fingertips. My 
tongue yearns to entwine yours. I 
wait with baited breath for the day 
your sweet-smelling sweat will 
caress my lips like dew on a rose 
petal. 
All my love and passion 
entwined, P.G. 
LONDON SPRING '90!!! GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND· HAVE A PINT! MEET AT COACH'S MON. FEB. 4@ 9P.M. ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA X4034! 
SPRING BREAK in Cancun or Bahamas from $299.00! Includes round1rip air, 7 nights hotel, cruise, beach parties, free lunch and much more! Organize a small group-earn free trip plus cash. Call 1-800-BEACH IT. 
FOFIMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
CALLING VANESSA 2729305 
NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC I D. ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD. CALL 277-6245. 
Hey L.B, 
Maybe you'll stop wining 
know that you got an ad 
from me (Just kidding). 
I can hardly wait to spend some time with you this 
weekend. I LIKE YOU 
ADAMENTLY. 
Love, 
Your Hon 
I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8 Call Missy at 2577 $$ 
ATIENTION ALL CREW TEAM MEMBERS (present and former) ~nly 33 days until John O'Brien's birthday! See you all in Orlando. 
Mony Yant and "Robere," I long for ye like I long for the sea, I long to kiss your tender lips, My love for ye runs deep and long, like a river. I love ye deeply. 
Love and passion, 
A mysterious personal writer 
Hi Rich, Marianne, and "Coli!" 

Scoreboard 
page 14 Friday, February 1, 1991 NBA STANDINGS HOW THE TOP 25 FARED NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS SPORTS CALENDAR 
r 
All Times EST 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Boston 32 t1 .744 4-6 Won2 Philadelphia 23 19 .548 81/2 3-7 Lost 1 Washington 20 24 .455 12 1/2 5-5 Won2 New York 19 25 .432 13 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 New Jersey 14 30 .318 18 1/2 4-6 Lost 3 Miami 11 33 .250 21 1/2 2-8 Lost 6 Central Division Detrort 32 13 .711 8-2 Won4 Chicago 29 13 .690 1 1/2 7-3 Lost 1 Milwaukee 27 18 .600 5 2-8 Lost6 Atlanta 24 19 .558 7 5-5 Lost4 Indiana 18 24 .429 12 1/2 6-4 Won3 Cleveland 14 29 .326 17 3-7 Lost 1 Chartotte 13 29 .310 17 1/2 2-8 Lost2 WESTERN CONFERENCE -.sweat Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak San Antonio 31 11 .738 7-3 Won 1 Utah 29 15 .659 3 6-4 Won2 Houston 23 21 .523 9 4-6 Lost 1 Dallas 15 26 .366 15 1/2 3-7 Won2 Mimesota 14 27 .341 16 1/2 5-5 Wont Denver 13 30 . 302 18 1/2 7-3 Won5 Orlando 11 33 .250 21 2-8 Lost 1 PKitlc Division Portland 37 8 .822 7-3 Lost 1 LA Lakers 31 11 .738 4 1/2 10-0 Won 12 Phoenix 28 14 .667 71/2 7-3 Won 1 Golden State 24 17 .585 11 8-2 Won3 Seattle 20 22 .476 15 1/2 5-5 Won 1 LA Clippers 15 28 .349 21 4-6 Lost 1 Sacramento 12 29 .293 23 5-5 Lost 1 Thursday's Games late Games Not Included 
Washington 107, New York 98 
Seattle 97, Houston 94 
San Antonio 106, Chicago 102 
Denver 123, New Jersey 119 
Utah 105, Portland 91 
LA Clippers at Golden State, (n) 
Atlanta at LA Lakers. (n) 
NBA BOXES 
CHICAGO (102) 
Pippen 7-13 t-2 15, Grant 9-16 2-2 20, Cartwright 4-9 0-0 8, Paxson 3-5 0-0 6, Jordan 9­2217-18 36, Levingston 2-4 0-0 5, Armstrong 2-5 0-0 4, King 0-0 0-0, Hopson 2-4 0-0 4, Perdue 2-3 0-0 4. Williams 0-0 o-o 0, Hodges 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 40-83 20-22 t 02. SAN ANTONIO (106) 
Green 5-9 4-6 14, Elliott 6-14 6-6 18, Robinson 9-14 13-15 31, Strickland 8-17 6-9 22, Anderson 4­9 4-412, Pressey 1-6 2-2 4, Greenwood 1-21-2 3, Higgins 0-3 0-0 0, Johnson 1-1 0-1 2. Totals 35-75 36-45106. Chicago 31 28 23 20-102 San Antonio 25 24 26 31-106 
NEW JERSEY (119) 
i 
\ Morris 10-19 2-4 22, Coleman 8-17 7-9 23, Dudley 2-8 0-0 4, Blaylock 1-14 0-0 2, Theus 10­21 8-9 28, Haley t -3 0-0 2. Mills 1-2 0-0 2, Lee 0-0 0-0 0, Gervin 6-11 2-2 14, Petrovic 9-11 2-2 22. Totals 48-106 21-26 119. 
DENVER (123) 
I Wolf 5-12 2-212, Cook 3-6 3-4 9, Rasmussen 4­9 1-2 9, Adams 13-30 16-19 45, Williams 11-21 5-5 28, Battle 4-4 2-2 10, Jackson 0-10 0-0 0, 
l 
~ Anderson 0-1 0-0 0, Lane 2-6 0-3 4, Liberty 2-5 0-2 6. Totals 44-t 04 29-39 123. New Jersey 16 38 22 43-119 Denver 25 23 39 36-123 
WASHINGTON (107) 
Grant 9-t 4 3-4 21, King 20-35 9-10 49, Jones 3­41-2 7, D.Walker 2-5 2-2 6, Workman 5-9 3-4 13, Ellison 0-4 0-0 0, English 3-7 1-2 7, Alarie 0-0 0-0 
0, Hammonds 1-2 0-0 2, Foster 0-3 0-0 0, Eackles t -4 0-0 2. Totals 44-87 19-24 t 07. 
1. 
,( 
NEW YORK (98)
I 
Oakley 4-8 2-4 10, Vandeweghe 5-13 4-4 16, Ewing 13-20 3-9 29, Cheeks 4-8 0-0 8, Tucker 3-9 0-0 6, E.Wilkins 0-1 2-4 2, Jackson 1-6 2-2 4, G.Wilkins 5-16 0-1 t 0, K.Walker 3-5 1-1 7, Quinnell 3-5 0-0 6, Mustaf 0-2 0-0 0, Starks 0-2 0­0 0. Totals 41-9514-25 98. Washington 25 22 28 32-107 New York 28 28 17 25--98 
The
i 
Graduate Student Union 
Cordially invites 
All Graduate Students,
1 
Faculty Friday Friday, 
1. 
UNLV (16-0) at San Jose State. Next: vs. Rutgers, Sunday. 

2. 
Arkansas (21-1) did not play. Next: at Rice, 


Saturday. 
3. 
Ohio State (17-1) lost to Michigan State 75-61. Next: vs. Purdue, Sunday. 

4. 
Indiana (19-2) did not play. Next: at Minnesota. Sunday. 

5. 
St. John's (15-3) did not play. Next: vs. No. 25 Seton Hall, Saturday. 

6. 
Arizona (17-3) beat Washington State 84-71. Next: vs. Washington, Saturday. 

7. 
Duke (17-4) did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Saturday. 


a. Syracuse (18-3) did not play. Next: vs. Boston College, Saturday. 
9. 
North Carolina (15-3) beat Clemson 90-77. Next: at North Carolina State, Wednesday. 

10. 
Kentucky (16-3) did not play. Next: vs. Georgia, Sunday. 


1t. Nebraska (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. Oklahoma State. Saturday. 
12. 
UCLA (15-5) did not play. Next: vs. No. 19 Prttsburgh, Saturday. 

13. 
Utah (20-1) beat Texas-EI Paso 78-68. Next: at New Mexico, Saturday. 

14. 
LSU (13-5) did not play. Next: at Vanderbi~. Saturday. 

15. 
Virginia (15-4) did not play. Next: vs. Wake Forest, Saturday. 

16. 
East Tennessee State (17-2) did not play. Next: at Appalachian State, Saturday. 

17. 
Southern Mississippi (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. Louisville, Saturday. 

18. 
Georgetown (13-5) did not play. Next: vs. DePaul, Sunday. 

19. 
Prttsburgh (15-6) did not play. Next: at No. 12 UCLA, Saturday. 

20. 
New Mexico State (15-2) did not play. Next: at Long Beach State, Saturday. 

21. 
Oklahoma (14-6) did not play. Next: vs. Missouri, Saturday. 

22. 
New Orteans (18-3) did not play. Next: vs. Southwestern Louisiana, Saturday. 

23. 
Georgia Tech (12-6) did not play. Next: vs. Maryland, Friday. 

24. 
Kansas (14-4) did not play. Next: at Iowa State, Saturday. 

25. 
Seton Hall (13-5) did not play. Next: at No. 5 St. John's, Saturday. 


COLLEGE HOOPS BOXES 
BOSTON COLLEGE (79) 
Arditti 0-1 0-0 0, Beasiey 3-4 0-0 6, Curtey 3-8 2­2 8, Eisley 3-6 3-4 9, Huckaby 3-4 0-0 9, Jackson 0-0 1-4 t, Abram 5-8 2-215, Moran 2-7 0-0 5, Able 5-7 2-212, Hinton 5-7 3-5 13, Foley 0-21-21. Totals 29-5414-19 79. NOTRE DAME (77) 
Ellery 3-5 11-13 18, Ross 1-t 0-0 2, Tower 3-6 4­
4 10. Singleton 3-5 3-5 9, Bennett 6-17 0-2 12, Boyer 2-3 t -2 7, Sweet 6-8 0-0 17, Cozen 0-1 0-0 0, Ross 1-t 0-0 2. Totals 25-47 24-32 n. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 43, Boston College 42. 3­point goals-Boston College 7-17 (Huckaby 3-4, Abram 3-5, Moran 1-5, Arditti 0-1, Eisley 0-2), Notre Dame 3-5 (Boyer 2-2. Ellery 1-2, Bennett 0­1). Fouled out-Moran. Rebounds-Boston College 25 (Moran 6), Notre Dame 28 (Tower 9). Assists-Boston College 15 (Eisley 4, Huckaby 5), Notre Dame 14 (Bennett 6). Total fouls-Boston College 25, Notre Dame 17. A-9,469. 
OHIO ST. (61) 
Jackson 5-17 2-3 12, Lee 3-5 4-5 10, Carter 3-10 5-811, Baker 6-10 2-4 14, Brown 3-7 0-0 7, Ske~on 0-0 0-0 0, Davis 0-2 0-0 0, Jent 2-10 1-1 5, Robinson 1-t 0-0 2. Totals 23-6214-21 61. MICHIGAN ST. (75) 
Stephens 4-4 0-1 8, Steigenga 2-6 3-4 8, Peplowski 1-3 2-2 4, Montgomery 6-9 3-917, Smith 8-18 9-9 26, Weshinskey 1-1 1-2 4, Zulauf 0­1 0-0 0, Hickman 4-6 0-2 8. Totals 26-48 t 8-29 75. 
Halftime---Michigan St. 39, Ohio St. 36. 3-point goals-Ohio St. 1-12 (Brown 1-4, Jackson 0-1, Baker 0-1, Davis 0-t, Jent 0-5), Michigan St. 5-10 (Montgomery 2-4, Steigenga 1-1 , Weshinskey 1-1 . Sm~h 1-4). Fouled out-5teigenga. Rebounds-Ohio St. 36 (Carter, Jent 9), Michigan St. 35 (Peplowski 9). Assists-Ohio St. 6 (Lee 2), Michigan St. t6(Montgomery 7). A-15,138. 

and Staff members To the Afternoon Club To be held 
February 
Every Friday this From 5:00 P.M. ­at the Alumni-Senior There will 
1, and Semester 
9:00 P.M. 
Club. be 
NO COVER CHARGE. Munchies will be provided. 
Become part of the GRADUATE tradition! 
All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
w L T Pis GF GA NY Rangers 27 18 8 62 191 164 Philadelphia 27 22 6 60 186172 Pittsburgh 28 22 3 59 226 195 New Jersey 22 21 10 54 194 178 Washington 24 27 3 51 171181 NY Islanders 18 28 6 42 151186 Adams Division 

Boston  30  16  8  68  196169  
Montreal  29  20  5  63  183162  
Buffalo  21  21  10  52  183178  
Hartford  22  25  5  49  151179  
Quebec  11  33  9  31  151 234  
CAMPBELL CONFE RENCE  
Norris Division  

w L T Pis GF GA Chicago 34 15 4 72 tn 134 St. Louis 30 15 7 67 201 160 Detrort 22 26 5 49 176197 Minnesota 16 30 9 41 163168 Toronto 13 33 5 31 147 212 Smythe Division Los Angeles 28 18 5 61 206 165 Caigary 27 20 5 59 213170 Edmonton 25 22 3 53 174161 Wrnnipeg 18 29 8 44 179195 Vancouver 19 30 4 42 165 204 Thursday's Games late Game Not Included 
Boston 5, Montreal 2 Quebec 4, Buffalo 1 Washington 4, N.Y. Islanders 3, OT Philadelphia 4, Prttsburgh 2 St. Louis 4, Hartford 3 
N.Y. Rangers at Vancouver, (n) 
Friday's Games Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
NHL LINESCORES 
Quebec o 3-4 Buffalo t 0 0-1 

First Period-1, Buffalo, Vaive 19 (Makela, Ruuttu), 4:06. Penalties-Loiselle, Que (slashing), 2:03; Pearson, Que (holding), 6:59; Sundin, Que (cross-checking), 14:36. Second Period-2, Quebec, Wolanin 3 (Hrkac), 
3:23. Pena~ies-Ledyard, But (tripping), 1 :37; Sundin. Que (cross-checking), 2:06; Lapointe, Que (boarding), 5:31; Krupp, But (roughing), 15:05; Hartman, But (unsportsmanlike conduct), 15:05; Kimble, Que (unsportsmanlike conduct), 15:05; Sundin, Que (holding), 16:07. 
Third Period-3, Quebec, Sakic 28 (Lapointe, Nolan). 3:10. 4, Quebec, Quinney 3 (Morin, Hrkac), 8:23. 5, Quebec, Kimble 2 (Leschyshyn), 13:24. Pena~-Krupp, But (slashing), 14:54. 
Shots on goal-Quebec 5-10-12-27. Buffalo 10­13-13--36. Power-play Opportunities-Quebec 0 of 3; Buftalo 0 of 6. Goalies-Quebec, Cloutier, 3-3-0 (36 shots-35 saves). Buffalo, Wakaluk, 2-2-0 (27-22). A-14,814. 
Pittsburgh 1 0-2 Philadelphia 2 0 2­

First Period-!, Pittsburgh, L.Murphy 8 (Roberts, S.Young), 9:34. 2. Philadelphia, Sutter 12 (lacombe), 10:38. 3, Philadelphia, Ricci 15 (Samuelsson, Eklund), 14:57 (pp). Penalties-Taglianetti, Pit (tripping), 7:06; Zalapski, Prt (cross-checking), 14:16; Errey, Prt, major (fighting), 14:16; Berube, Phi, major (fighting), 14:16; Caufield. Pit (cross-checking), 19:24. 
Second Period-4, Pittsburgh, Lemieux 2 (Hrdina, Coffey), 15:52 (pp). Penalties-Sutter, Phi (holding), 14:07; Kerr, Phi (holding), 17:04. 
Third Period-S, Philadelphia, Mellanby 16 (Ricci), 4:35. 6, Philadelphia, Sutter 13 (Samuelsson, Hextall), 6:25. Penalties-Fenyves, Phi (tripping), 9:50; Acton, Phi (cross-checking), 20:00. 
Shots on goa~Pittsburgh 6-11-11-28. Philadelphia 12-8-6-26. Goalies-Pittsburgh, 
W. Young (26 shots-22 saves). Philadelphia, Hextall (28-26). A-17,382. 

BASEBALL American League MILWAUKEE-Agreed to terms with Mike Felder, outfielder, on a one-year contract. NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms with Chuck Cary, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Named Tom Schieffer president. National League 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms with Fernando Valenzuela, Trm Crews and Jim Gott, pitchers; Jeff Hami~on, third baseman, and Stan Javier. outfielder, on one-year contracts. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Signed Nikco Riesgo, infielder, to a one-year contract and Bill Long, pitcher, to a minor league contract. 
NEW YORK METS--Agreed to terms w~h Todd Hundley, catcher, on a one-year contract. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES--Agreed to terms with Joe Soever. pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
PITISBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to terms with John Smiley. prtcher, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
CHARLOTIE HORNETS-Activated Rex Chapman, guard, from the injured list. Signed Scott Haffner, forward, to a 10-day contract . FOOTBALL National Football League 
NEW YORK JETS-Acquired Ron Mattes, tackle, from the Seattle Seahawks for an undisclosed draft choice. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Named Jim Vechiarella linebackers coach. HOCKEY National Hockey League 

HARTFORD WHALERS-Promoted Ken Schinkel to director of hockey operations. 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled Steve Tuttle, right wing, from Peoria of the International Hockey League. 
Montreal 2 0 0-2 
Boston 2 1 2-5 

First Period-1, Boston, Hodge 11 (Neely, Lazaro), 4:55. 2, Montreal, Ewen 3 (Cote, Gilchrist), 5:49. 3, Boston, Brickley 2. 9:59. 4, Montreal, Dufresne 2 (Gilchrist), 13:47. Penalties-Lazaro, Bos (charging), 10:54; Keane, Mon (holding), 15:52. 
Second Period-S, Boston, Bourque 12 (Wesley. Hodge), 1:41 (pp). Pena~ies-McPhee, Mon (interference), 1 :04; Lefebvre. Mon (cross­checking), 6:27; Bourque, Bos (tripping), 9:00; Corson, Mon (high-sticking), 10:50; Dufresne, Mon. minor-major (slashing, fighting), 12:20; Bourque, Bos, minor-major (high-sticking, fighting), 12:20. 
Third Period-6, Boston, Neely 31 (Lazaro, Bourque), 4:38. 7, Boston, Poulin 7 (Skriko, Bourque), 10:03. Penalty-Burridge, Bos (hooking), 14:45. 
Shots on goa>-Montreal9-6-10-25. Boston 12­14-14-40. Goalies-Montreal, Racicot (35 shots­30 saves), Chabot (10:03 third, 5-5). Boston, Moog (18-16), DelGuidice (10:03 third. 7-7). A-14,448. 
Washington 1 0 2 1­N.Y. Islanders 0 2 1 0-3 First Period-!. Washington, Leach 9 (Khrrtisch), 
8:01. Penalties-May, Was. major-misconduct (fighting), 5:23; Kordic, Was, major (lighting), 5:23; Baumgartner, NY, major-misconduct (lighting), 5:23; Vukota. NY, minor-major-misconduct-game misconduct (instigator. fighting), 5:23; Leach, Was (roughing), 12:52; Hunter, Was (roughing), 16:33; Wood, NY (roughing), 16:33. 
Second Period-2, New York, King 14 (Nylund, Sutter), :30. 3, New York, King 15 (Flatley, Suffer), 
16:20. Penalties-May, Was, double minor (charging, roughing), 3:56; Baumgartner. NY (roughing), 3:56; Ferraro, NY (tripping), 6:58; Kypreos, Was (charging), 10:08. 
Third Period-4, Washington, Ciccarelli t 4 (Ridley, Miller), 2:49. 5, New York, Sutter 19 (Flatley, King). 11:57. 6, Washington, Tatarinov 4 (Miller, Ridley), 16:50. Pena~ies-None. 
Overtime-7. Washington, Hunter 1 t (Pivonka. Druce), 1 :44. Penalties-None. 
Friday, February 1 NO Hockey@ Air Force 7:30 p.m. 

Saturday, February 2 NO Men's Basketball v. Duke 4:00 p.m. NO Women's Basketball @ Evansville 2:30 p.m. NO Wrestling@ Iowa 7:30p.m. NO Men's Swimming v. Northwestern 2:00 p.m. NO Women's Swimming v. Northwestern 2:00 p.m. ND Hockey@ Air Force 7:30 p.m. 
-All times local 
WOMEN'S TOP 25 

How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams Jared Thursday: 
1. 
Virginia (19-1) did not play. 

2. 
Penn St. (16-1) did not play. 

3. 
Tennessee (17-4) did not play. 


4. 
Georgia (18-2) beat No. 22 Florida State 91­71. 

5. 
Purdue (17-1) did not play. 


6. 
N. Carolina St. (16-3) beat South Carolina 72­59. 

7. 
Auburn (17-3) did not play. 

8. 
Stanford (14-3) did not play. 


9. 
Rutgers (17-1) beat Rhode Island 77-48. 

10. 
LSU (16-3) did not play. 

11. 
W. Kentucky (17-1) did not play. 

12. 
Arkansas (16-3) did not play. 

13. 
Washington (13-3) did not play. 


14. 
Mississippi (15-4) beat Memphis St. 93-77. 

15. 
Northwestern (11-4) did not play. 


16. 
UNLV (16-3) beat San Jose St. 79-46. 

17. 
Texas (13-5) did not play. 

18. 
Connecticut (16-3) did not play. 


19. 
Notre Dame (1 4-3) beat St. Louis 97-48. 

20. 
Clemson (14-5) did not play. 

21. 
Providence (17-3) did not play. 


22. 
Florida St. (14-3) lost to No.4 Georgia 91­71. 

23. 
Lamar (18-2) did not play. 

24. 
Maryland (13-7) did not play. 

25. 
Iowa (9-6) did not play. 



PGA TOUR RESULTS 

Scores with courses designators Thursday after 
the first round of the $1.1 million AT&T Pebble 
Beach National Pro-Am. KEY: x-played the 6,799-yard, par-36-36-72 Pebble Beach course; y-played the 6,895-yard, par-36-36-72 Poppy Hills course, and z-played the 6,81 0-yard, par-36-36-72 Spyglass Hill course. Mike Standly 32-33-65x Brian Claar 33-33-66z John Cook 34-32-66y Lance Ten Broeck 33-34--67x Paul Azinger 31-36--67z Larry Rinker 33-34--67x Jeff Maggert 34-33-67x Davis Love Ill 33-34--67z Jay Haas 33-35--68x John Daly 32-36--68x Chris Perry 34-34--68x Robert Thompson 34-34--68z Tom Kite 35-33-68y Jay Delsing 34-~x Bill Britton 35-34-69y Eric Woods 34-35-69x Rocco Mediate 35-34-69x Hale Irwin 37-32-69y Doug Tewell 35-34--69x Payne Stewart 35-34--69y David Sutherland 34-35-69y Mike Smith 36-34-70y Perry Arthur 35-35-70y Tom Sieckmann 34-36-70x Chip Beck 35-35-70z Kenny Perry 35-35-70y Emlyn Aubrey 35-35-70x Jack Nicklaus 36-34-70y Mark Brooks 35-35-70x Jerry Haas 34-36-70x Peter Jacobsen 35-35-70y John Joseph 34-36-70x Andy Bean 36-34-70y Dillard Prurtt 35-35-70x John Mahaffey 35-35-70y Howard Twitty 38-32-70x Lee Janzen 34-36-70y 
You may not know our name, but we've been a cornerstone of America for 125 years. 
We wouldn't be a bit surprised if you didn't recognize our company name-Cargill. But we've been in business since 1865, helping America's farmers feed the world. 
We're a company built on talented people. Our particular skills include marketing; handling and processing bulk commodities; risk management; strategic capital investment; and taking an innovative approach to generating cost efficiencies. 
We apply those skills to a broad range of businesses. Today, Cargill handles commodities as diverse as scrap metal and molasses, cocoa and fertilizer, cotton and ocean freight, and wheat and orange juice. Our operations vary from flour mills to futures trading, from meat-packing plants to mining salt, and from steel mills to selling seed. Cargill, its subsidiaries and affiliates, employ more than 55,000 people worldwide. 
If you have a good academic background, above-average communication skills and a desire for advancement, we'd like to talk to you. Career opportunities exist for talented, ambitious people from diverse educational backgrounds. 
Recruitment dates are as follows: 
February 12, 1991-Commodity Merchandising February 13, 1991 -Merchandising Interns 

DOMINO'S PIZZA TOP 10 PICKS 

DOMINO'S POLL 
UNLV 15-0 
Arkansas 20-1 
Ohio State 17-0 
Indiana 18-2 
Arizona 16-3 
Duke 16-4 
StJohn's 15-2 
Syracuse 17-3 
North Carolina 14-3 
Kentucky 15-3 
Call about our 30th Anniversary Special! Employmmt Opportunities Available. 
MONDAY-TUESDAY SUNDAY DOUBLE · ANY DAY SPECIAL
SPECIAL FEATURE ::~~~c:= $499 GettwoSmall $ 99 : Gettwolarge $10 95 : 
I 91¢ each. G<xxl on Monday onf~~0ff.~~~ ~~~d-1 one-topping pizzas I : and Tuesday only. Sunday only. 1 for $10.95. :
a 1.
I 
. I •. I1 

I 
: · : · ., I : · e I 


v....~~""'·""' · c-poys-IU v..... __""'""'""'""'""-"'""~"""-'"' v.."~-~""'·""' .., "'"""'-"""""-'"'
1 .t~nappiciOII . .._.~~~-====-~cwry-~~an$20.oo. .-.IA)Iqblt ~--:!.s~~-===-~~fafylesstrlnS20.oo. 1 wnn~A~bt*t ........~n:~-;:.::::·2:::'0My•"-'$2000. -1 L-------------~~~--j_-------------~~2/~I__ .J. _____________ ~~_!!!!9.!._ _ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835SouthBendAve. 289-0033 816PortageAve.
C1990 Domino's Piua, Inc. 

--------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 1, 1991 
I 
l \' ( 
l
l 
~ 
i \' 
Top coaches like Meyo field 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
When making a menu of the nation's most competitive track and field meets, top coaches and athletes always remember to add the Meyo. The annual invitational, named in honor of Raymond Meyo, a 1967 Notre Dame graduate and contributor of Loftus Sports Center's impressive one-fifth mile track, begins tonight with the pentathlon and continues through Saturday. The Irish men's track team, hoping to improve upon last week's performance at Western Michigan University, will field athletes in numerous events. Head Coach Joe Piane is looking forward to hosting some of the country's finest competition. "It promises to be an out­standing meet," he said. "There will be a number of extremely talented athletes in a wide range of events." Piane believes that the 800 meter run, which will be separated into two equally competitive sections, could generate the most excitement. "The separate heats will allow 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
under Tower for a layup to put Boston College back on top with 4 7 seconds left. Sweet tied the game again 22 seconds later on a turnaround jumper . 
Boston College (11-9) looked for the final shot. Guarded tightly by Tim Singleton, freshman Howard Eisley sunk a 15-foot jumper from the left wing. The Irish quickly called for a timeout to set up Bennett's final attempt. 
"He made a great shot," said Singleton of the winning basket. "I had both hands in his face. I jammed him and didn't let him get in the paint." 
Phelps said the loss was espe­cially painful after squandering a lead that reached as many as nine points in the first half. Although the Irish went into the locker room with a 43-42 lead, a see-saw second half allowed the Eagles to take charge. 
"This was a tough one to lose," said Phelps. "I didn't like the fact that we gave up 12 points on offensive rebounds and 12 points off turnovers." 
Phelps said the many fouls called in the first half prevented the Irish from establishing a rhythm. Notre Dame scored 18 points off of 16 Boston College fouls in that stanza, 11 of them coming from Kevin Ellery, who led all scorers with 18 points. 
The Irish jumped to an 8-0 lead before the Eagles fought back to tie it at 20. With most of the points for both teams coming from the charity stripe, the Irish looked to pull away from the Eagles with a 38-29 lead with 4:33 left in the half. 
But Boston College wasn't about to give up and closed the gap to one. 
"This was a good win for us," said Boston College head coach Jim O'Brien. "We were stale at the beginning but we gutted out an important win." 
After trading the lead at the start of the second half, Boston College spread out the Irish de­fense to connect on five of its seven three pointers, pulling away from a 51-51 deadlock. The Eagles took their biggest lead of the game, 63-53, on a pair of treys by reserve Mal­colm Huckaby. 
for faster individual times," he noted. Irish middle distance standout Brian Peppard headlines the first section, which also in­cludes Illinois State All­American Dave Rzeszutko and NCAA runner-up George Kersh of Mississippi. In the second heat, Mark Dailey of Eastern Michigan, Georgetown's Ethan Frey and Michigan's Chris Newman should vie for first place. The "Meyo mile", always one of the year's fastest indoor races, again features an out­standing field, including Georgetown teammates Rich Kenah and Steve Holman as well as Michigan's Brad Bardquist. In the 3,000 meter run, Notre Dame will be well represented as Irish captain Ryan Cahill and sophomore John Coyle, an All-American in cross country, look to qualify for the March NCAA Championships. The shorter races also promise to be exciting as Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, the 1989 IC4A 55-meter dash champion, makes his 1991 debut for the Irish. Ismail's brother, Qadry, a member of the Syracuse track 
squad, will compete in the 
110-meter hurdles for the Orangemen. In the jumping events, Notre Dame will place its hopes on the ability of '90 IC4A high jump qualifiers John Cole and Paul Maloney as well as long jumper Jeff Smith. Pole vaulter Greg Matteo, who recorded an outstanding 15­foot, 6-inch effort during last week's meet, will provide additional support for the Irish. Throwers for Notre Dame in­clude Frank Montabon, Jim Flanagan, Ryan Mihalko, and Brian Brock, all who will be attempting to better the IC4A shot put standard. On the women's side, the most exciting event may also be the 800-meter run as NCAA fourth-place finisher Mirielle Fankatsing of Eastern Michigan will lead a stellar field of half milers. Irish captain Amy Blaising will compete with teammate Terese Lemanski in the 3,000­meter run. Sophomore Lisa Gorski, who will be racing in the 1,000 meters, represents the top hope for Notre Dame middle distance runners. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 

Boston College freshman Howard Eisley hit the shot of his life, a jumper against the pressure of Irish defensive spe­cialist Tim Singleton. 
"He hit a great shot," said Bennett, who almost stole Eisley's headlines. 
In many ways, the game seemed like a repeat of last week's 62-52 Irish loss to Rutgers. 
Despite having an early lead, Notre Dame never really estab­lished a rhythm after spending most of the first half at the foul line. The Eagles didn't stay out of foul trouble, but they did stay close to the Irish. 
"It's really hard to explain," Irish forward Daimon Sweet said. "I don't think we really got into a flow the first half. We didn't ever set up our of­fense." 
Said Notre Dame forward Kevin Ellery, "We just didn't do what we had to do in the first half. Down the stretch, we knew ·they would make a run and we just didn't come through." 
The loss was difficult for the Irish because it came on the heels of a good performance ­and a victory -at Dayton two days earlier. It also came with the one-point loss to Virginia fresh in their minds. 
The thing that puzzles many Notre Dame players is that they play well for an extended stretch, but then it seems that the breaks go the other way late in the game. 
"It's tough," Singleton said. "We play hard every game, but we're just coming up short. Things are bound to turn around sooner or later." 
Sonner would be better than later with Duke coming in on Saturday. The Blue Devils de­feated the Irish in the consola­tion game of the Dodge NIT in November. 
And the schedule -one of the toughest in the nation -will get no easier. The games ahead in­clude De Paul twice, Syracuse, St. Johns, Temple, Louisville and Missouri among others. 
Add to that the fact that LaPhonso Ellis won't be returning and it's clear that the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
"This season is frustrating," Bennett admitted. "But we have some games left and we just have to play hard and hope things fall our way. If you concede losing, you will lose." 
Student Government Presents ... 
A Public Forum On Contemporary Issues 
with 
Gavriil Popov Boris Notkin 
Mayor ofMoscow Soviet Journalist 
"WhatS Really Going On In the Soviet Union" 
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 7:00pm Stepan Center 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
~TUDE •NT 
&OYIINIINI This lecture was made possible through the generosity ofseveral members of the Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
Notre Dame students organize cricket club 
Several enterprising students have begun a club which will bring the British sport of cricket to Notre Dame. 
Still in its organizational phase, the Cricket Club numbers about 25 now, and its founders are in the process of organizing a schedule. 
Most of the cricket played in this country is on the east coast, but the club has heard of smaller teams in 

and near Chicago which would be Rolando De 
more accessible. Aguiar 
Though cricket is not very popular Club Corner 
in the United States, the team has a ------­
large base of players, many 
experienced foreign students have come out for the team. 
"Hopefully we should get a team by Easter," said organizer 
Marko Burgar. "If we can get a game going in Loftus, we think 
it'll be the first indoor, full-sized game ever played." 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski teams raced at Crystal 
Mountain in the Michigan Governor's Cup, as all three teams 
finished in the upper division. 
The men's team finished fifth out of 11 teams in Michigan, as 
Dave Barry, Tim Peterson, and Bob Reich led the Irish. 
Reich finished in the top five in the Giant Slalom, and Barry 
placed tenth for the Irish. Tim Peterson helped the Notre 
Dame cause with a 21st-place time. 
The Saint Mary's women placed fourth, with Katie Daniels taking home a fourth place trophy. Beth Mcintosh brought in a ninth-place time, and Rachel Deck lifted the squad with her 36th-place showing. 
Notre Dame's women's team fell just short of the Saint Mary's squad, with a fifth-place result. JoJo Gehl was 17th, Ann Laing 27th, and Bridget Underwood 30th at CrystalMountain. 
Information or questions regarding club sports at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should be directed to Rolando de Aguiar do The Observer, Box Q, La Fortune Student Center. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Today 
is the last day to turn in applications for the position of Assistant Commissioner in the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Applications can be picked up at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. Any questions, comments or problems should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 234-8817. 

•Late 
Night Olympics schedules are available at NVA office or by calling 239-6100. Nicole Farmer (ASB secretary) will replace Fred Tombar in the dunk tank from 10-10:30 p.m. Friday 


Men's tennis hosts Northwestern 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 
After season-opening losses almost two weeks ago to the third-and fourth-ranked teams in the nation, the 13th­ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team will try to get back on the winning track this week­end by hosting three dual matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish, coming off 6-3 losses to Georgia and Tennessee, face a powerful Northwestern squad Saturday at 11:30 a.m. In the second match of the day, Notre Dame meets Purdue at 7:30 p.m. Finally, the Irish, ranked first in the region, will entertain Big Eight member Colorado Sunday at 10 a.m. 
"I'm worried about Northwestern and Colorado," said fourth-year coach Bob Bayliss. "Northwestern went to the NCAA's last year and re­turns an All-American at num­ber one singles in Steve Herdozia." 
Along with Herdozia, who is ranked 25th nationally, the Wildcats will play with two transfer students. At number two singles, Giora Payes, who transferred from UCLA, recently beat his opponent on the top-ranked Georgia team. Adding to Northwestern' strength is Anthony Roy, who transferred from Trinity University. Roy and Notre Dame's Will Forsyth were roommates before transferring after Trinity reduced its sports to the Division III level. 
"With that kind of nucleus," said Bayliss, "we have to be afraid of them." 
Colorado is a steadily improv­ing team, led by freshman Scott Davidoff and Sweden's Hakkan 
Olsson. After losing to the 
Buffaloes in 1988, the Irish 
have won two straight against 
fourth-year coach Ron Sass. 
If playing three matches 
against quality opponents in 
less than 24 hours seems 
unusual, well, it is. Because of 
NCAA rules that limit the 
number of dates on which dual 
matches can be played, Bayliss 
had to combine the three 
matches into one weekend. 
"In some ways, these matches 
are more pressure-filed for us," 
said Bayliss. "When you play 
some of the top teams like 
Stanford, UCLA, and Georgia, 
you don't feel the pressure be­
cause you're not expected to 
win. But we really need to 
have a strong weekend. With 
the schedule we're going to 
play, we have to win every 
match." 
For the Irish, "strong" is the 
key word. After taking many 
matches to three sets against 
Georgia and Tennessee and 
coming up short, Notre Dame 
has undergone some condition­
ing chan_ges. 
"Coach got on to us about that," said Irish sophomore Mark Schmidt, who has recov­ered from a bout with mononu­cleosis that sidelined him for most of the fall season. "We've been doing a lot of running in practice. We've had a few weeks to get in shape, so we should be ready physically." 
Physical readiness, paired with some match experience, should bring about different results than those that ap­peared against Georgia and Tennessee. 
"They were more match tough than we were," said ju­nior Dave DiLucia, who is 1-4 against Northwestern's Herdozia. "If we had won a 
few of those three-set matches, 
it-could've been 5-4 in our 
favor instead of 6-3 against us. 
Now that we have a few 
matches under our belts, we 
should be better off against the 
teams this weekend." 
Some fine-tuning in practices 
over the past two weeks should 
allow the Irish as a team to 
come together against some 
tough early season opponents. 
"We tried to be real specific 
in practice," said Bayliss. 
"We've been working on pass­
ing shots, attacking second 
serves, and quite a bit of dou­
bles." 

The number two doubles team of Andy Zurcher and Will Forsyth went undefeated against the Georgia and Tennessee. Forsyth has made his presence known in more ways than one, according to Bayliss. 
"First of all, he's a great guy. He's been accepted in a way that's hard to believe." said Bayliss. "He's left-handed, and the only left-handed player on the team, so that's good for us in practice." 
Forsyth hopes his debut in Division I tennis will material­ize into a crowd pleaser. 
"I'm looking forward to it," Forsyth said of his home opener. "From what I've heard, a lot of people come out and it gets pretty intense, so hopefully it'll be like that again on Saturday." 
If it's not like that, a lot of people will be missing some tennis programs on the rise, and others that are on the verge of national dominance. 
"We definitely need to estab­lish that we can win at home," said Bayliss. 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIALOL YMPICS $1.00 DONATION AT THE DOOR ENTER GATE 2 OR 3 JACC 
8:00PM GAMES OPEN OPEN SKATING TIL 9:30 INNERTUBEWATERPOLO 
TONITE 
LATE NIGHT
INDOOR SOCCER -MEN VOLLEYBALL 
OLYMPICS 
WALLYBALL 
8:30 HALF-COURT BKB 
9:00 DUNK TANK OPENS TABLE TENNIS DOUBLES INDOOR SOCCER -WOMEN RACQUETBALL SINGLES 
9:30 NERF FOOTBALL 
10:00 WATER LACROSSE BROOMBALL OBSTACLE COURSE 
10:30 WHIFFLE BALL 12:00AM OPEN SKATING TIL 1 :30 

.­

page 18 The Observer Friday, February 1, 1991 
Hockey team wants to improve road record 
Schafer. "The game was in
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
overtime, they scored a goal, except the puck wasn't in the 
The road to date has not been net. It hit the post and bounced kind to the Notre Dame hockey out." team. Bankoske was equally upset 
Despite owning a 13-11-1 with the goal. record on the season, the Irish "They hit the post and called are only 1-10-1 on the road. it a goal. We don't want to let After playing two games at Air that happen again," said the Force this weekend, the Irish junior center. will travel only once more (to The Irish are coming off a an independent tournament at sweep of Kent State, winning the end of the season), and the second game despite Notre Dame captain David managing only 12 shots on Bankoske wants to improve the goal. The lack of offense has away record. Notre Dame concerned but not 
"We want to prove to panicky. ourselves that we can win on "We've been struggling with the road," said Bankoske. goal scoring," said Bankoske, 
Irish head coach Ric Schafer the Irish leader in goals (16) was more philosophical. and assists (19). "I've been try­
"I'm not worried ... (but) I'm ing to score more goals in not happy. This is competition. practice... We have to start mainder of the season. be used. We'll make sure our two away games with Air It just so happens to be on the shooting instead of looking for "He's back where he was shifts are very short. Here we Force. road," said Schafer. the perfect pass. One of these (before the East Coast trip)," go for one minute (per shift), "We'd like to beat them 
Schafer expects two close days we'll break loose." said Schafer. "He's got it back there we'll go 45 seconds." twice," said Schafer. games with the Falcons. The The biggest reason Notre under control." As a junior, Bankoske has Irish lead the all-time series Dame won Saturday's game A major concern for any ath­experienced the high altitude And two wins on the road will with Air Force 14-10-1, after was the inspired play of fresh­lete competing in the Rocky associated with Colorado (on do wonders for the team's con­
~ splitting four games last sea­man goaltender Greg Louder, Mountains (where the Air Force the trip there last year). fidence, especially when two of '! son, including one game that who turned away 32 of 33 shots Academy is located) is the thin­"When you're out (on the ice) the most important games the \I \ the Irish players and coaches he faced against the Golden ner air found at high altitude, for 20 or 30 seconds, you start Irish will play take place in are sure to remember going Flashes. but the Irish are preparing for sucking wind," Bankoske said. Anchorage, Alaska, in the into this weekend. Coach Schafer feels that it as best they can. Despite their difficulties on Jeep/Eagle Independent Hockey "We got robbed out of a game Louder will continue on a "Fatigue sets in faster," said the road, the Irish won't be Tournament on March 9 and 
(against them) last year," said higher level throughout the re-Schafer. "All of our players will complacent with splitting the 10. 
Notre Dame fencers to meet top teams at Princeton tournament 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR weekend for the season," said after this meet." ipating in a tournament in came in with an 8-5 mark. Sports Writer coach Yves Auriol. "All the Undefeated at 12-0, the Irish Montreal and sophomore Noel The Irish women's team also teams are very competitive." men's team has destroyed its Young was ill and unable to takes an undefeated slate to 
Notre Dame fencing will face Last season, the Irish men Midwestern competition thus travel. Princeton. The team is 9-0 and its biggest test of the season lost in only one event while in far this season. Last weekend, Notre Dame had standout also was 5-0 at Cleveland State. this weekend as the Irish travel Princeton. This year, the team Notre Dame again showed its performances in each event. The most impressive perfor­to Princeton. hopes to achieve similar superiority over its midwestern The sabre team had an excep­mance for the women's team 
Both the men's and women's success. opponents by going 5-0 at tionally strong performance as came against defending na­teams will face several of the "I'm excited about taking this Cleveland State. The Irish de­brothers Chris and Ed Baguer tional champion Wayne State. nation's fencing powers. Host swing east," said Head Fencing feated Case Western Reserve finished with 8-0 records for Notre Dame controlled the strip Princeton, along with Brown, Coach Mike DeCicco. "It will 24-3, Detroit 20-7, Eastern the weekend. convincingly, and won 11-5. Cornell, Duke, New York give us a good chance to com­Michigan 24-3, Michigan 23-4, Foilist Jeff Piper was 7-1 in The Irish completed their University, North Carolina, pete against those teams we and Wayne State 21-6. Cleveland and senior teammate successful weekend by defeat­North Carolina State, and Saint will inevitably see again in However, several standout and captain Phil Leary con­ing Case Western, Detroit, and John's, will participate in the NCAA competition. We should performers for the Irish could tributed a 6-1 mark. In epee, Michigan without losing a bout, tournament. have a strong feeling about not make the trip to Cleveland. freshman Greg Wozniak was and defeated Eastern Michigan 
"This will be our toughest where we stand in the country Leszek Nowosielski was partie-10-2, while Geoff Pechinsky 15-1. 
:·~······••t,~··~~~··tt••·········
SPRINu ljHt:AI\. '91 : 
SENIORS with experience in
!ACAPULCO i 
Social Action/Community Service
• $ 8 l': -••
. 
179 .:FROM 459. 00 'JJ,.1"g 4'1 : 
~ 
• MARCH 11-17, 1991 eq.t.~ : 
are invited for a Weekend Away
: Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS...... : : from CHICAGO on AMERICAN AIRLINES : 
at Lake Michigan 
: FOB MORE INFORMATION CALL: •
. : 
:BOB AT 1-800-875-4525 : 
''A SEARCH FOR THE SPIRIT IN THE 
( : ONL..l 15,"iit~ LEfT(\~ CALL, .TODAY!! : 
LIFE WE LIVE"
·····•*" •·······•······· ...
t «. • .f~J 
• • : Bef(Je 6pm
t: 
A FAMILY coMEPY Sc.'-·warzenegger 
--FRIDAY, MARCH 1 to SUNDAY, MARCH 3-­
i ' I 
WITHOUI' THE FAMILY. \'
1 
1101.\fE lffiJ ~indsrgarten 6iAUNe COP~ 
4:30-7:15-9:30 4:45-7:30-9:45 

Sponsored by Campus Ministry and The Center for Social Concerns 
l~ 
I 
Information and applications available at The Center for Social Concerns 
1: 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 8
~ 
1t 
I 
! 


CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Sammy Cahn is 48 Lesser one nobleman, in 
1 Cringe 
Spain

30 Dawdled Friday 7 Noted 31 Lotion plant 50 Canada goose 12 Private chapel 32 River in Poland, 53 Made into law 11 a.m.--5 a.m. Fun Flicks II: Notre Dame students 13 Looked for food to Germans 54 In a silly way have the opportunity to make their own music videos. 15 Concise 33 Deceives 55 Glacial ridge LaFortune TV Room. All videos are free. 16 Pizza spice 35 Less tight 56 Cheap and 17 Penrod's dog 38 Preadults gaudy Saturday 18 Whit 39 Mild oath 20 Astringent 40 --de plume 
DOWN 
8 p.m. Blizzard of Bucks: Students can win $500 at 21 Coarse person 42 Anatomical Theodores. Sponsored by SUB. passages 1 Soft hail 
22 Ski-slope mound 43 Chubby 2 Raffish 24Chemical 44 River in 
3 North American compound Portugal Indian 25 Firm 45 Plagiarize 
4Ludwig-­Beethoven
26"1smell-" 46 Indonesian 5 Silkworm 
island maliciously 47 Spring period & Roofed churchyard structures 7 Ord, e.g. 
27 Treats 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
&"You­There" MENU 
9 Periodicals 10 A goal of the =t:':+:=+:-;-t French 

27 Goodbye 38 Round French 46 Ripening agent Revolution 
loaf 47 Bring an aircraft
29 Kind of hog

11 Stripped 
39 Two-piano downNotre Dame 12 --the hills 30Ciumsy piece 49 Like balloons: 1=+-:-:+:::+::cf'!!!'~l'!!' o::+.<-t.:i.-:+:+.o:+.;-+.:; 13 DoIt 33 Yellow variety 41 Chummy, in Abbr. Manhattan Clam Chowder .....,.,~&h:-i 14 Cathedral tops of quartz Cheshire 51 Actress Merkel Taco Bar 
~+.-:-+=-1=1 19 Baseball call 43 Trudge 52 Shooter marble 
34 Iroquois Indians 

Quiche Lorraine 
22 "Marilyn" Vegetables Marinara author's family 36 Computer­terminal worker, 
23 Bean and Answers to any three clues in this 
e.g.

Saint Mary's Welles puzzle are available by touch-tone .,.,-h........-+.rn 24 Excuse, 37\n a blunt phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each Spicy Beef Melt sometimes manner minute). Cheese Ravioli Chicken Pasta Salad wNegetables Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
nitRE 0\)6\{\ 10 'i?.t: ~ o~ C.o<J\0£., l ~~ 'ffii~K 
L~W 1\G~I~Sr \4{>,\jlt-IG 9:.:1\00L 1'\-\E.RE. S\-IQIJ\.D & SG-IOOL ON 0~'6 ¥M~N IN nit. FAlL EITHER ... A.NO "ffit.Rt.'5 Et-.100~ S\Jt-\M£.R'S 00\ ALREf>..l)'( .... SNOW It> PtA'{ At-.1\) Tl-\tN \Wc.Rt.'S SPRING .. 
IN. 
I 
B'1 SKO~\) GRAD£., '(QIJ'D BE PK'(ING 'IOOR LVNCI-\ BOX Nln\ DtN\\lRE C\£11-NERS. 

.. 
.bJ'{O B£\=OR£ I 
~~ Th \1-1\RI:> GAAO£., r 
WlD RETI'K£. 
.. 

~-.. 
Mouies 

•
WINTERFEST '91 
Raising Arizona: January 31
Beacon Bowl: January 31 
Flatliners: February 1 & 2
Fun Flicks II: February 1 
Cushing Auditorium
Shear Madness: February 1 
8 and 10:30 P.M.
Blizzard of Bucks: February 2 
Admission: $2
Flag Football Tournament: February 2 & 3 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
:-*-­
-

Sports 
page 20 Friday, February 1, 1991 

Irish wrestlers prepare for second-ranked Iowa 
By DAVE DIETEMAN "They may be ranked second, 
2-1 triumph over Troy Steiner is high and we've been looking Sports Writer but they are by far the best at 142 pounds. Curt Engler, really good lately. This will team in the country," said who wrestles <tt Heavyweight probably be our toughest meet 
After a wildly successful Notre Dame head coach Fran this season, drew with Don these kids will ever see in their week, the Notre Dame McCann. "There is no question Finch for the other Irish points. lives. wrestling team (3-4} believes that they are the best team in Fortunately for the '91 Irish, "We are looking to gain re­that it has built the foundation the country. Wrestling them on they are peaking at the perfect spectability. We must be men­for a profitable weekend the road will make it tougher -time. With tough matches tally tough, though. The experi­matchup with the second­Iowa City is a pretty hostile en­against Purdue and Oregon as ence of mental toughness is ranked Iowa Hawkeyes. vironment for opposing teams. well as the National Catholic what we try to instill in our kids The Hawkeyes, an "But the main topic of con­Tournament under their belts, so that they can go out and acknowledged and perennial cern for us is that we not be the Irish are primed for a clash perform well in a meet like this. power of the wrestling world, intimidated. Iowa is extremely of the epic magnitude which We are looking to toughen up are 18-0-1 under coach Dan physical, and if we let them in­Iowa will provide. now for our last four meets. If Gable, a member of the timidate us we will be embar­Also, Notre Dame hopes that we can do that, then we can Wrestling Hall of Fame. In his rassed. The key for us is that the valuable experience and re­carry good momentum into our
Mark Gerardi 

career, Gable has directed Iowa we fight back. As long as we spectability it stands to gain regional meet." 
to a 261-16-4 record. keep our composure and don't are returning national champi­from its meeting with the 
Penn State made the only sit on our heels, they will re­ons. Hawkeyes will aid in its Once again, the Irish will look chink in the Hawkeyes' armor spect us." Last year, Iowa swarmed the remaining dual meets with to 12th-ranked Mark Gerardi this season -a 19-19 tie at the This year, the Hawkeyes have Joyce ACC and the Irish with a Nebraska (#8}, Oklahoma, (167}, Steve King (190), 12th­National Dual Meet. Prior to the eight wrestlers ranked in' the stunning 36-5 victory over Illinois and Indiana. ranked Marcus Gowens (126), National meet, Iowa had top 12 in the nation in their Notre Dame. Pat Boyd, since "We are in the best shape Todd Layton (150}, and fresh­decimated the Nittany Lions by weight classes. Terry Brands graduated, managed the only that we've been in all year," man J.J. McGrew (177) to pro­a sizeable margin. (126} and Tom Brands (134} win of the day for the Irish -a said McCann. "Our enthusiasm vide the bulk of their scoring. 
Notre Dame loses one more in the final seconds 
No dancing for Eisley's basket 
Digger in latest with :04 left lifts 
Irish setback Boston College 
By GREG GUFFEY By CHRIS COONEY
Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
The stage was set for Richard A frustrated Irish basketballPhelps to bring "The Digger" team watched victory bounceback into vogue Thursday night out of its reach Thursday night at the Joyce ACC, a Ia last 
when a last-second shot by
year's win at Syracuse. 
Elmer Bennett hit the front of
Notre Dame trailed Boston the rim and allowed Boston
College 79-77 and had the ball College to edge Notre Dame,with four seconds left. Elmer 77-75 at the Joyce ACC.
Bennett -the hero of the 
With four seconds remaining,victory over the Orangemen ­Bennett snuck up through thecaught the inbound pass and Irish screens, grabbed the in­
shot a three-pointer at the 
bounds pass and put up a
· buzzer that hit the front edge of jumper from three-point landthe rim. 
at the top of the key. While theIt seemed like Phelps, who breathless crowed was momen­
popularized the jig when 
tarily remind~d of the junior'sBennett hit a similar buzzer­nearly identical shot upsettingbeater last February, was al­Syracuse last year, the effortready hearing the music when was just short.
the ball bounced off the rim. 
"It wasn't the same play weBut instead of dancing, the ran against Syracuse last year,Irish were singing the blues but it was in the same place,"and dropping to 8-12 with a said Irish head coach Digger
date against Duke set for 
Phelps. "When he shot it, I
Saturday afternoon in the sold­thought it was going in." 
out JACC. 
After missing a number of
"It was a tough game to lose," chances to regain its first-half
Phelps said. "It (last shot) 
lead, Notre Dame (8-13) tied
wasn't the same play we ran the score at 7 5 with 1:20
against Syracuse but it was in remammg. Keith Tower and
the same area. We set the 
Daimon Sweet combined for six screens for him. When he shot unanswered points to pull theit, I thought it was going in." 
Irish up from a 75-69 deficit. 
Just a few seconds before 
The Eagles' Doug Able, who'I Bennett's attempt at heroics, finished with 12 points, ducked 
see IRISH I page 16 see HOOPS I page 16 
Women's tennis team to open spring dual season 
By RICH SZABO Louderback said. " I think we 
past fall, with Barton making Katie Clark at the remaining Sports Writer can get some wins over them." the NCAA tournament and the slots. In doubles, Ann Junior Ann Bradshaw, com­team earning national recogni­Bradshaw and Tholen will play The Notre Dame women's ing off a second-place finish in tion. No. 2, with Clark and Kristy tennis team begins its spring the Eck Doubles Classic with "Kids now nationally know Doran playing at No. 3. dual-match season this partner Lisa Tholen, added, that we are serious about hav­Louderback did not know who weekend, travelling to "Practices are up and the dif­ing a good program here," would team with Tracy Barton
'l 
Wisconsin to challenge ference is team intensity. It's Louderback says. "They know at No. 1 doubles, deciding to
!, 
Furman, Marquette, and just a feeling that people know that there is a commitment wait until after the team's Wisconsin. something good is going to here." practices at Wisconsin to name ·, The Irish, ranked 25th in the happen." The Irish coach believes that her partner. nation in the Volvo/Collegiate If the Irish are to reach the his team will get off to a good Even if a player is out, this~i Tennis Poll, are hoping for a NCAA tournament, a goal start but may be playing with­spring's Irish team is loaded fast start this weekend as they which Louderback says the out freshman Christy with talent. 
Tracy Barton 

look ahead to a schedule which team has a good shot at, then Faustmann. Faustmann, who "I think for us, the biggest
ij,it 
includes nine teams ranked in this weekend will be important. years," said Tracy Barton, plays No. 2 singles and teams thing is our depth," Louderback last season's. final top 25 poll. Wisconsin is currently ranked Notre Dame's top singles with Barton at first doubles, says. "This weekend, and many Coach Jay Louderback has fourth in the region, while the player. "We might have to take has been sidelined with times this season, we are goingl~ high hopes for the team's suc­Irish come in second. The some losses to develop the kind mononucleosis. to travel with nine or ten play­d' d) ., cess, citing the tough schedule Badgers represent the first of of program that Notre Dame If she does not play, the Irish ers. Our doubles teams will as an excellent motivational many tough matches the Irish wants to develop." will probably go with Barton at also be very strong this year.
:J; 
factor. will have this spring. That kind of program has No. 1 singles, followed by We're ready to get going, and I 
,,
" "We need to get some experi­"The tough schedule is quite been helped by the team's per­Melissa Harris, Lisa Tholen, think we will play well this
I
r
·I ence playing the top teams," ·different from the past two formance last year and this Terri Vitale, Kim Pacella, and weekend."
/:
I. ·'­
I. 


.. 




