-~--~-----------------­

VOL. XXIV NO. 22 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 24, 1991
I 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Most dorms reject safe haven resolutions 

By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
Most Notre Dame residence halls have decided against passing a "safe haven" resolu­tion presented by NO's under­ground homosexual support group. Only three dorms have passed some version of the res­olution over tho past two weeks. 
Those dorms that did not pass tho resolution cited a Jack of necessity to reaffirm existing University regulations prohibit­Ing discriminatory harrassment against homosexuals. 
Three dorms-Siegfried, Stanford and Zahm-have passed resolutions over tho past two weeks either Identical or similar to tho model resolution, which was sent last month to all hall presidents by Michael Vore, a graduate English student and co-chairman of Gays and Lesbians of NO/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), which Is not recognized by the University. 
Three more dorms-Badin, Cavanaugh and Lyons-have in­vited either Vore or another representative to their dorms to speak before they took any action on the resolution. Zahm also invited Vore to speak be­fore agreeing on the final wording of their passed resolu­tion. 
"The most important thing is that people are looking at the issues of gays and lesbians in the dorms," said Vore Monday. "As long as issues are ad­dressed, a homosexual resident in a dorm might be able to be more open, more confident" in discussing his or her homosex­uality, he added. 
Vore challenged, however, the notion that Du Lac's policy is enough to guard against dis­crimination of homosexuals. 
Under the model resolution, contained in a memorandum from Vore to all hall presidents dated August 26, a dorm would affirm "the rights of its gay residents to be welcome and 
Bush asks U.N. to keep Iraq sanctions 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­
President Bush told the United 
Nations on Monday "we cannot 
compromise" on demands that 
Iraq destroy its nuclear 
weapons capability. lie also 
urged the world body to dis­
avow Its stand that Zionism is a 
form of racism. 
While talking tough about Iraq, Bush set no deadline for Saddam llusseln to uncondi­tlonallv submit to inspection and destruction of his most dangerous weapons or face the possibility of renewed military force. White House press secre­tary Marlin Fitzwater told re­porters that the United States was discussing a 48-hour deadline with other Security Council members. 
Bush said the U.N. should keep economic sanctions clamped on Iraq as long as Saddam remains In control. 
He took a strong stance on the 1975 Zionism resolution, a major source of mistrust be­tween Israel and the U.N. 
"To equate Zionism with racism Is to reject Israel itself," Bush said In his speech to the General Assembly of represen­tatives from 166 nations. "This body cannot claim to seek peace and at the same time challenge Israel's right to ex­Ist." 
"By repealing this resolution unconditionally," he said, "the United Nations wlll enhance its credibility and serve the cause of peace." 
The United States has long deplored the resolution but Rush had postponed a cam­paign to repeal it out of a desire to maintain Arab support for tho effort against Saddam In the Persian Gulf. 
Tho State Department's as­sistant secretary for interna­tional organizations, John Bolton, told reporters, "We think we have a majority in fa­vor of repeal." 
As for Iraq, some advisers 
had urged Bush to set a 48­
hour deadline after which 
American warplanes would be 
used to accompany U.N. inspec­
tors on helicopter flights in 
Iraq. 
White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the United States was consulting wlth Security Council members on how to proceed, and that a decision might come in a day or two. "Our plan contains a 48­hour deadline and a proposal on how to move after that" if Saddam continues to balk, he said. 
However, another adminis­tration official said the 48-hour plan "may not be relevant" anymore as the U.N. faces new problems with Iraq's denial of documents to U.N. inspectors. Nevertheless, the official asserted that the United States and its allies have the authority to use force if necessary against Iraq. 
"We have the grounds for ac­tion," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Fitzwater said Saddam's in­terference with inspections "leads us to be more pes­simistic" that he will comply with U.N. demands. "It doesn't appear that Saddam recognizes the seriousness of the situation. The basic problem is he doesn't want to comply." 
Bush reworked his speech at Camp David over the weekend and tinkered with the section on Iraq before leaving the White House on Monday -as Iraqi soldiers were detaining 
U.N. inspectors who were trying to take nuclear-weapons documents from a building in Baghdad. 
"We're not going to do any­thing before we understand the facts," Bush said after his speech. In Baghdad, the Iraqis released the inspectors but kept the documents. 
see BUSH/ page 4 

comfortable where they live." A dorm would oppose "discrimination of any of its residents based on their sexual orientation." 
Most hall presidents, after consulting wlth either their rec­tors, hall councils, or both, have determined that a safe haven resolution was not necessary because their dorms have never discriminated in the past. Also, a section of Du Lac, the ND student policies and regulations handbook, specifically prohibits "Intentionally demeaning expression concerning the ... sexual orientation ... of the victim(s)." 
Stanford's hall council passed unanimously a resolution af­firming Du Lac's policy, but it did not use the term "safe haven" in its text. 
According to Greg Butrus, Stanford co-president, the reso­lution states: "Be it resolved that the residents of Stanford Hall have read and affirm our commitment to (NO's) discrim-
Laugh it up 
inatory harrassment policy as spelled out in Du Lac. We will not tolerate .discriminatory harrassment based on race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, or national origin." 
Butrus said he thinks Vore would be pleased with Stanford's resolution, passed last week, but that "we didn't do it to please him. Hall council just thought it was the right thing to do." 
Zahm's hall council voted 5-2 last week in favor of the resolu­tion, but will meet later this week to agree on the final wording of the resolution, ac­cording to Zahm Co-president Warrick Muldrow. . 
Siegfried passed the resolu­tion unanimously two weeks ago. In a letter to The Observer, Siegfried's rector and assistant rector said that their resolution "simply restates a reality which· existed before any one group politicized it; that is we have never discriminated against someone because they are gay.. 
. Our statement was more about discrimination than about homosexuality." 
Joe Flanagan, president of Cavanaugh Hall, said he expects Vore to address Cavanaugh Sunday at their bi-weekly hall forum, after which a decision will be made on how to address the resolution. 
Lyons expects Vore to speak there also, according to Sarah Fitzpatrick. 
Megan Sullivan, president of Badin, said she hopes to have either Vore or another speaker at Badin within the next week. 
Most hall presidents empha­sized that deciding against the resolution was not the same as being anti-homosexual, or that their dorm condoned discrimi­nation of homosexuals. 
"Keenan Hall Council voted on the proposed safe haven resolution and concluded that Keenan does not discriminate 
see DORMS I page 5 
The Obse!verffim Farish 

~oug ~e~erle and Emma Bellis can't stop laughing while rehearsing for the Irish Accent, a comedy 1mprov1sat1onal group here at NO. 
Iraq takes papers from U.N. team 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Iraqi soldiers detained U.N. of­ficials for more than 12 hours in a Baghdad building Monday, then forcibly ·confiscated docu­ments that apparently show Iraq has been developing nu­clear weapons. 
The inspectors found the pa­pers in a surprise search sev­eral hours before the U.N. Security Council met to discuss Iraqi obstructions to U.N. searches for hidden weapons and production facilities. 
The inspectors hauled seven carloads of papers from an Iraqi government building, but authorities stopped the team, held Its members for 12 hours and "forcibly" seized the data, officials said. 
Rolf Ekeus, head of the U.N. special commission in charge of finding and demolishing Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, said that before their detention the inspectors had copied some of the key documents with their own portable copying machines. 
The confrontation appeared likely to lead the Security Council to accept President Bush's offer to provide troops to guard the inspectors and warplanes to escort U.N. heli­copter searches. No formal council meeting was immedi­ately scheduled. 
The Gulf War cease-fire re­quires Iraq to allow the U.N. inspections, and the Security Council already was upset over Iraq's refusal to allow unan­nounced helicopter flights to suspected weapons sites. 
"The Security Council resolu­tions that call for inspections· are unconditional," Secretary of State James Baker said. 
"We saw earlier the tragic consequences of the failure to comply with Security Council resolutions," he warned, refer­ring to the U.S.-led campaign that drove Iraqi troops from Kuwait after Saddam Hussein refused U.N. orders to end his occupation of the emirate. 
Baker was at the United Nations for a speech to the General Assembly by Bush, who said U.N. demands that Iraq destroy Its nuclear weapons capability could not be com­promised. 
Iraq has denied its nuclear program Is Intended to develop weapons. 
Iraq's Foreign Ministry said the government was not trying to hide the documents, but in­sisted that proper receipts be filled out for the papers to pre­vent false claims from being made about what is in them. · 
Its statement was carried by the Iraqi News Agency. 
David Kydd, chief spokesman of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria, said the papers found by the U.N. experts appeared to confirm for the first time that Iraq has been "working on the development of a (nuclear) weapons capability." 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Feminists are not militant 
H l


man haters 
84 63 
85 59 
66 50

Feminism is a term------­
71 53

which unfortunately has 
66 53 

negative connotations for 82 67 
76 35

many Notre Dame 
66 52students. 90 70 
As a result many people 90 72 
68 47 

are confused about how a 66 55 woman "should" or 93 71 
91 64

"would like" to be treated 
87 77

these days. 55 43 
68 55

Feminism is an Assistant News 
89 72

important belief which ex-68 55 presses the idea that Editor 70 56 women deserve equal 84 64 
71 49

opportunities in life. 78 53 For example, feminists believe that a 73 51 
61 46

woman deserves the opportunity to work in 
81 66 

an intellectually stimulating job, just as a man also is given this opportunity. 60 And once given this job she ought to be treated with respect because of her mind, and 
'',•.

not her appearance. If she deserves not to be respected, this judgement should also be derived solely from her performance, and not because of her lack of beauty. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Femininity is a feeling that says "I like who I am, and I like being a woman. It is possible to play soccer in the mud and still be a feminine person. 
However, picking teeth with a fork at Christmas dinner is not a very feminine man­nerism. But, at the same time, no man should be proud of such behavior either. Nor would it be a good idea to show up at the dinner table after playing soccer in the mud, not having taken a shower. 
Both of these examples are demonstrations of what good manners should be for both sexes. Thus, being a female includes execut­ing good taste so as not to embarrass the company. 
This defmition is not always so cut and dry, however. There may be something a woman would want to do, but at the same time such behavior might embarrass or even hurt a close relationship. 
This is where problems arise. As a good friend perhaps it is correct to give into the accepted standards so as to give support to that relationship. 
Women would not mind doing this as long as they are not taken advantage of. Females must always be aware of appearance and must also realize that ignoring this fact may hurt other people. 
A feminist wants to be treated as a capable being. A man does not always have to do lit­tle things for her. For instance, she is usually quite capable of opening the door for herself. She doesn't want to feel helpless. 
Additionally, she is not a militant bitch who hates men, but rather a person who is ex­pressing her self-worth. 
Feminism tries to stop women from being treated as object's of man's vision, constantly being judged on appearance. 
A feminist is not against having a man open the door for her as a plight of common cour­tesy, but rather she is against having a man open the door for her just so he can watch her walk through. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's staff: Production: Scoreboard: Melissa Cusack Anthony King Cynthia Ehrhardt Accent: Ad design: Jahnelle Harrigan Maria Blottm Laurie Sessan Ellen Talaga Viewpoint: Lisa Gunsorek Julie Shepherd News: Guy Loranger Paul Pearson GraphicS: Julie Barrett Ann Marie Conrado Sports: Photos: Rich Kurz Sean Farnan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rasarvad. 
NATIONAL 
Jesse Helms has prostate cancer 
•RALEIGH, N.C.-Sen. Jesse Helms is undergoing treatment for prostate cancer, a spokeswoman said Monday. The 69-year-old North Carolina Republican known for his staunch conservatism is undergoing radiation treatment but continues to work at his Washington office, said spokeswoman Marilyn Tomczyk in Raleigh. Prostate cancer can be cured if detected early enough. Helms, who in 1990 was elected to a fourth term, announced in July that he had been diagnosed with Paget's Disease, a bone disorder that causes weakened and deformed bones. He said doctors blamed his limp on the di,sease, and prescribed pills to fight it. 
Textiles made by forced labor 
•WASHINGTON-A human rights group said Monday it has evidence that a New York trading company raided earlier this month by U.S. Customs agents illegally imported textiles made by forced labor in Chinese prison camps. Officials for Asia Watch told two House subcommittees that First National Trading Company Inc. was mentioned in a Chinese journal for labor-camp officials as having provided knitting machines to one camp in exchange for cotton cloth. The company, with offices in Manhattan's garment district, was among 23 companies raided by Customs Agents on Sept. 4 on suspicions of bringing Chinese clothing into the United 

OF INTEREST 
•A London Program application meeting for all interested sophomores will be held at 6:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
.rhe Industry Day banquet for engineers is tonight in the Monogram Room. At 6:30, hors d'oeuvres will be served, sponsored by General Electric and The Travelers. Dinner will be at 7:15, with Susan Linn, a networking specialist. Reservations only. Questions, call Beth Brandis at 283-2509. 
•The local chapter of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom has invited Professor Joe Gatto to speak on Leo Tolstoy's ideas about peace tonight at 7 at the Colfax Cultural Center, 914 L.W.W. in South States illegally. Several million dollars in goods and money were seized in the raids. 
INDIANA Board will drop "Jesus Loves Me" 
•ALEXANDRIA, Ind.-The song "Jesus Loves Me" will be dropped from elementary school music classes, despite public protest, the president of the Alexandria School Board says. The board is scheduled to review on Oct. 7 a complaint filed by Kathie Wilbur, whose son sang the religious song during kindergarten class at Oreste Elementary School. Board attorney Jeffrey Lockwood said the board had no chance of winning a legal battle to keep the song in the curriculum. Lockwood said religious songs cannot be used in public schools for the purpose of teaching religion, and they cannot be initiated by a teacher. 

CAMPUS 

Professor chosen for science course 
•Notre Dame, Ind.-Su-Min Oon, assistant professor of chemistry at Saint Mary's College, was one of 29 U.S. university and college faculty members from around the nation selected by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to attend a short course on "Teaching Macro-Molecular Chemistry and Engineering in the Undergraduate Curriculum" at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., this summer. The program, which focused on undergraduate applications for polymer research, was offered for the first time this year. It was organized by the American Chemical Society and Virginia Tech. 
Bend. For more info call Kathleen at 239-5319/5322. 
•Informational 
sessions for the Saint Mary's Alumnae Association Career Exploration Program will be held tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 in Stapleton Lounge-LeMans hall. For more info contact the Alumnae Relations Office, 108 LeMans Hall. 

•Dancers-are 
you interested in taking classes, teaching, and performing? If so, join the SMC/ND Dance Collective this week. Classes will be held for any interested men and women at the Rockne Memorial, room 301, for Jazz, Thurs. at 6 p.m. and Ballet, Friday at 4:30 


p.m. and Sunday at 7 p.m. For more info, call Elaine at 283-4995 or Ann Marie at 284-5147. 

MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 23 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
145.54 MILLION 212.02 """' .96 
--2.0 
• 8.72 
$220 to $351.10/oz. 

• 'I. If, I 
ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1869: Thousands of businessmen were ruined in a Wall Street panic after financiers Jay Gould and James Fisk attempted to corner the gold market. 

• 
In 1955: President Eisenhower suffered a heart attack while on vacation in Denver. 

• 
In 1957: The Brooklyn Dodgers played their last game at Ebbets Field, beating the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0 . 

• 
In 1960: The USS Enterprise, the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, was launched at Newport News, Va. 

• 
One year ago: The Supreme Soviet voted to give 


preliminary approval to a plan for switching the Soviet Union to a free-market economy. 
I I I I I I I I I a, I I I .. I I I I • • 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
Alan Matheney appeals his murder conviction 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The case of Alan Matheney, whose death penalty appeal comes be­fore the Supreme Court this week, has brought significant changes to state correctional policy and criminal law, experts 
say. 
The highly publlcized case of the prison inmate who mur­dered his ex-wife while out of prison on a pass has spurred correctional authorities to re­strict all work-and early-re­lease programs. 
It also prompted lawmakers to make a series of changes in laws ranging from victim noti­fication to domestic violence, experts say. 
~All kinds of people have cited 
the Matheney case to do all 
kinds of things," said Richard 
Good, executive director of the 
Prosecuting Attorneys Council. 
"And it's kept other things from 
passing, such as early release 
and things like that.~ 
Matheney was convicted and 
sentenced to death for the 
March 1989 beating death of 
his ex-wife, Lisa Marie Bianco 
of Mishawaka, while he was 
free on an eight-hour pass. At the time, he was serving an eight-year term after being convicted of battering Bianco. 
On Tuesday, Matheney's at­torneys will ask the state's highest court to reverse the conviction and sentence. The court could take months before rendering Its decision. 
It didn't take long for state officials and lawmakers to react to the case. Within weeks, two correction officials were fired and three others were suspended for issuing the pass to Matheney. 
A special report concluded "blurred lines of authority" had allowed Matheney to be re­leased when he shouldn't have been. 
Since then, the special as­signment program Matheney was in has been abolished, and new guidelines have been adopted to improve screening of all inmates seeking to get into early-or work-release programs. 
Department of Correction 
spokesman Pat Heffernan said 
the most recent census shows 
159 inmates in work-release 
programs. 
The Observer page 3 

Members of the Student Senate meet every week to discuss various issues affecting campus life. 
WVFI chief addresses Senate 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
"It is not dangerous. It is 
music,~ said campus radio sta­
tion WVFI in its proposal to 
Student Senate to gain support 
to convert to an FM stereo 
broadcasting system. 
The station's present AM car­
rier current has poor reception 
in most campus buildings, and 
a conversion to FM would allow 
the station to reach a few miles 
ofT campus and expand its role 
in the university, said Kevin 
Flaherty, station manager, in 
his address to the student sen­
ate in Monday's meeting. 
There Is demand for a station 
such as WVFI said Flaherty. 
The station is expected to pro­
mote events on campus and 
therefore contributes to the 
success of the events, he said. 
WVFI is the only station in 
the area with an exclusively al­
ternative format, Flaherty said. 
It received great support in this 
year's freshman interest survey, 
and received 150 applications 
for 11 deejay positions. Area 
high school students also 
showed interest in alternative 
music in a recent survey by 
WVFI. 
According to Flaherty, the 
bad reputation that WVFI has 
gained in the past because of a 
few infractions of FCC broad­
casting limitation is due to a 
"circle of apathy." Deejays, he 
said, do not care what they say 
when they think no one is Jistening, and the administration will not allow the station on the air unless It follows FCC restrictions. 
Although there was no official vote on the issue, support for the new FM system was voiced by one senate member. WVFI will be approaching the administration on the issue later this semester. 
JUNIOR CLASS BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Juniors -Grab your bookstore team and start I warming up now. The tournament is Oct. 3-5th. Sign up Mon, Sept. 23rd-Wed, Sept. 25th in the Junior Class OHice, from 3-5 pm. $5/team, teams must have -­at least 3 iuniors. )I I \'-._.._.-* Prizes will be awarded to the winning team *  
INDUSTRY DAY COLLEGE OF . ENGINEERING September 24 BANQUET # MONOGRAM ROOM HORS D'OEUVRES 6:30 sponsored by General Electric & The Travelers DINNER 7:15 September 25 CAREER FAIR FITZPATRICK HALL (Floor 1and 2) 11 :00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. * Representatives from over 30 major companies * Opportunities for full-time employment and summer internships * Bring your resumes! Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS  

WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'vOUR LIFE 
. t
Amencan Heart LC~ Association V 
page4 The Observer 

The Observermm Farish · 
A steady hand 
Joe Brassard works intensely on a print he has been perfecting in the Riley Hall of Art and Design. 





Armenia declares independence 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) -The Soviet republics were in turmoil Monday from the Caucasus to Central Asia. Armenia declared independence, armed Georgian activists refused to leave a TV station and a Communist leader regained power in Tadzhikistan. 
Armenia and Azerbaijan, meanwhile, reportedly were making headway in Russian­mediated talks over Nagorno­Karabakh, a disputed enclave where a bloody ethnic conflict has claimed hundreds of lives since 1988. 
The republics were taking af­fairs into their own hands and virtually ignoring the central government, proof that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has failed to regain much au­thority since hard-liners de­posed him briefly last month. 
Armenia on Monday became the 12th republic to declare in­dependence from the Kremlin, leaving only Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkmenia in the nominal union. The three Baltic states of 
Bush 
continued from page 1 

Bush's plea for keeping up pressure on Saddam and for r~pealing the resolution on Zionism were the high points of a speech in which he outlined his vision of the world in the post-Cold War era. 
Bush also used his visit for a marathon of diplomatic meet­ings at his suite at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. He met with the leaders of Brazil, El Salvador and South Korea and arranged a reception for all the U.N. heads of state. 
At the same time, Secretary of State James Baker was con­ferring with foreign ministers of Britain, the Soviet Union, France and China, presumably solidifying Big Five support for pressure on Iraq. 
Baker appeared to warn Saddam of the threat of mili­tary force. "We saw earlier the tragic consequences of failure to comply" with U.N. resolu­tions, he told reporters. 
On Tuesday, Bush will meet with Boris Pankin, the new Soviet foreign minister, now seeking nearly $15 billion in food grants and credits from the West to avert starvation this winter. 
In his speech, Bush said the United States had no desire to impose a "pax Americana" on the world. 
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia already have broken out of the Soviet Union. 
The others who have broken from Moscow do not seek the same level of independence as the Baltics. They have agreed to remain in a loose confederation of independent states, and all 15 republics have expressed in­terest in maintaining economic ties in a kind of common mar­ket. 
Armenian lawmakers unani­mously endorsed the results of last Saturday's referendum, in which residents voted more than 94 percent in favor of in­dependence. After the vote, lawmakers and foreign visitors burst into "a stormy ovation" celebrating independence, the Tass news agency said. 
A political storm persisted in the southern republic of Georgia, where President Zviad Gamsakhurdia demanded that the opposition put down its guns and vacate the republic's broadcasting studio. 
Thousands of adoring sup­porters answered Gamsakhurdia's call to rally in front of the massive Government House. Waving the b I u e-whi te-and-maroon Georgian flag, the crowd shouted "Zviady, Zviady" when Gamsakhurdia emerged from the building in the evening. He declared nothing would happen to his opponents if they left the TV station. 
But the opposition remained firmly ensconced in the broad­cast studios, about a mile away. Some 100 protesters occupied the building early Sunday and later were )o.ined by protesters and rebel Georgian National Guardsmen. 
"We want real democracy. If Gamsakhurdia steps down, we'll leave peacefully. If not, we're staying here," said Ghia Matahashvili, a young National Guardsman loyal to the opposi­tion. 
SINCE 1949 
Great Brands, Great Service, Great Prices, Rentals AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur 11-7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 
220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
fPrr®ol!.~w ~®~O®~W Meeting 
Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors interested in becoming a member of the Pre..Law Society should attend the general meeting on Tues., Sept. 24, at 7 pm in the Cushing Auditorium. Dean Waddick and Professor Susan Vance will be on hand to speak. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 

Croatians, troops continue fighting . 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­As federal troops and Croatian militias tested a day-old cease­fire with gunbattles Monday, officials said neighboring Serbia was pressing for an agreement allowing it to incorporate key sections of Croatia. 
News reports spoke of fierce fighting around the central Croatian towns of Nova Gradiska and Okucani, with in­tense tank and mortar shelling of Vukovar, a Croatian town on the Serbian border. 
The Yugoslav news agency Tanjug said Monday night that the fighting seemed to be eb­bing, except for sporadic clashes in the eastern region of Slavonia, where Serb insur­gents have fought Croatian militias since the republic .de­clared independence June 25. 
"Croatia has shown its teeth, and a completely new relation of forces has been established," said Croatian President Franjo Tudjman's top adviser, Mario Nobilo, explaining why he thought the truce would hold. 
"The only language that (Serbian President) Slobodan Milosevic can understand is the language of force, and we have now shown that will no longer be effective," Nobilo said. 
The federal army may soon pull back from the fighting and settle into Serb-held parts of Croatia where the population "recognizes it as its own," said Borisav Jovic, Serbia's man on the eight-member federal pres­idency. 
A Western diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Serbia seeks an urgent meeting among Yugoslav leaders to approve the partial army withdrawal. 
He said Serbia would ask at the meeting that Croatia be permitted to secede from Yugoslavia, but without terri­tories now held by the Serbs. That would achieve Milosevic's aim of expanding Serbian terri­tory before agreeing to Croatian independence. The military is dominated by Serbian officers whom the Croats claim are loyal to Milosevic. 
Although Croatian leaders have expressed willingness to give .greater autonomy to Serb­dominated a~eas, they refuse to give up Croatian territory. There are also disagreements over which areas of Croatia would be considered "Serb­dominated." 
Croatia's 4.75 million people include about 600,000 ethnic Serbs, many of whom live spread throughout the republic. Serb militants have taken up arms in some regions to set up their own government or join their areas with Serbia. 
Tensions between Serbs and Croats, Yugoslavia's two largest ethnic groups, are fueled by memories of the massacre of hundreds of thousands of Serbs by the pro-Nazi government of Croatia during World War II and retaliatory killings by Serbs. 
HAPPY 21st THDAY JULES 

\~CAMPUS GOLF,! 
2 PERSON SCRAMBLE 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 TEE TIMES STARTING AT 11:00 AM AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 

SIGN UP AS INDIVIDUALS OR IN PAIRS. PAIRS MUST HAVEONE PLAYER OVER 90 
FEES DUE WITH ENTRY $4.50 FOR STUDENTS 57.00 FOR FACULTY AND STAFF 
REGISTER AT THE GOLF SHOP (ROCKNE) DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 25 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
Study says junior college students need incentives 
WASHINGTON (AP) -More collaboration is needed between two-and four-year colleges to entice students at junior and community colleges to continue their educations, a higher education group said Monday. 
The American Council on Education said students who attend the two-year institutions -especially Important gate­ways for minorities -are dis­couraged In several ways from transferring to four-year schools: 
• 
Schools may not adequately value each other's work, affect­Ing perceptions of student per­formance. "Community college transfer students are too often viewed as less capable than their four-year counterparts," the council said. 

• 
Big colleges and universities are heavl~ bureaucratk and students are often discouraged by confusing and conflicting rules, regulations and require­ments. 

• 
Students may not have the financial resources to move from a two-year to four-year school and available financial aid may be Inadequate. 


The report, "Setting the National Agenda: Academic Achievement and Transfer," called for Increased collabora­tion between administrators and faculties at two-and four­year schools. That, it said, is "the central, essential element in successful transfer efforts." 
The report, published by the council's National Center for Academic Achievement and Transfer, said also that schools should develop faculty mentor programs for transfer students, establish definite transfer goals and develop financial incentive plans to enhance student transfers. 
About a third of junior and two-year community college students say they plan to move on to four years schools, but studies suggest that between 20 and 25 percent actually do, the council said. 
The report said that more than 5.7 million students were enrolled in community and ju­nior colleges in 1989 -about 43 percent of the 13 million students who attended the na­tion's schools of higher educa­tion. 
"Access to higher education through community colleges has been especially important for minority students," the re­port said. It said 42 percent of blacks, 56 percent of Hispanics, 40 percent of Asian Americans and 54 percent of Native American students who at­tended college in 1988 were en­rolled in two-year schools. 

The Observer pageS 
The ObsetVer/John Rock

Strike a pose! 
A Notre Dame student has his picture taken while studying at the Huddle. The Huddle is a popular spot to study. with food and friends close by to take well-needed breaks. 
P---------------------~-------------Dorms 
If you want to put your technical skills to use and you have an interest in . .. 
Information Systems or Telecommunications 
Come talk to us at the. .. ~~~ ,llf'' ~~~~~~~ r!H,,.Iii!! 11! ::111::1: !'1~1 '1~ 11'!l1!jl 1 
~I, 1~1 1.~~l 
~~I ~lil'l !'l,'iII~ ·,,!1,1'!1'',n jl':lli 
~Dinner on Tuesday, September 24 ~Fair on Wednesday, September 25 
TheTravelerST' 
"On The Leading Edge of Technology in the Financial Services Industry." 
.........................,, .............-.... " ...., .... . 
I t t I . .. • t ,, ~· 
~ 
continued from page 5 
on any basis," said Keenan president Adam Spahn in a ·prepared statement. "and views it unnecessary to declare Keenan Hall a safe haven. There have been no problems in the past, and there is no reason to expect any in the future." 
"We haven't had a problem in the past [with discrimination of homosexuals)," said Tom Pitstick, president of Fisher. He said hls rector, Brother Edward Luther, told him that avowed homosexuals have in the past lived in Fisher with acceptance by other residents. 
St. Edward's decided against the resolution after a dorm­wide vote, hi which about 25 percent voted for the resolu­tion, half thinking the resolu­tion was necessary. and the rest voting directly against such a resolution, according to hall president Rob Pritchard. 
"Our policy in the past ls that we've never condemned anyone for their [sexual] preferences," said Anthony Coury, president of Dillon. "We respect the pri­vacy of both heterosexuals and homosexuals." Dillon reached its decision after the hall co­presidents met with the rector and heard input from Dillon residents. 
"It would be redundant," said Tom Leahy, president of Carroll, of the resolution. "We decided that Carroll didn't dis­criminate in any sense, includ­ing sexual orientation." 
Farley rejected the resolution September 10, for two reasons, according to Co-president Jennifer Swize. First, Du Lac contains an anti-discriminatory policy. Second, if Farley had passed the resolution, it would have implied that Farley was not a safe haven in the past or that they weren't a safe haven for other minorities, she said. 
"I don't think [Du Lac's dis­criminatory policy) is enough." said Vore. "It's not enough to say that something shouldn't 
see DORMS I page7 


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
K,idnappers promise to release British hostage 



Lou Chappuie, a junior from Sarin, paints a watercolor of Jesus while enjoying the sunny weather. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Pro-Iranian kidnappers said early Tuesday that within 48 hours they will release British hostage Jack Mann, the oldest of the Western hostages, who was abducted more than two years ago. 
The move by the Revolutionary Justice Organization appeared to indicate that a logjam in the complex negotiations by U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar for a comprehensive exchange of Western 
Paint a masterpiece 
Riots persist in Zaire's captial 
BRAZZAVILLE, Congo (AP)­About 3,000 paratroopers mu­tinied in Zaire Monday, pillag­ing stores in downtown Kinshasa and forcing the clo­sure of the country's main in­ternational airport, diplomats reached by telephone said. 
The government's Kinshasa Radio said late Monday that troops loyal to President Mobutu Sese had chased the mutineers from the city. But the international airport and the Congo River port that handles traffic with Brazzaville, which lies across the river from Kinshasa, remained closed. 
There were unconfirmed re­ports of shooting deaths and injuries. 
Portugal's ambassador to Zaire, Jose Manuel Duarte de Jesus, said there appeared to be a "power vacuum" in the former Belgian colony. He told the Portuguese news agency LUSA that shots were still being heard Monday afternoon. 
Diplomats in Kinshasa said in telephone interviews that the paratroopers were soldiers from the 31st Brigade who were angry because they hadn't been paid for several months . 
captives for Arab prisoners held by Israel, and possibly European countries as well, had been broken. : 
A handwritten communique from the Shiite Muslim group said the decision to free Mann was the result of "immense efforts" by Perez de Cuellar. He has been seeking to negotiate an overall prisoner swap between Israel and its Muslim foes for more than a month. 
Tuesday's communique, written in Arabic, was delivered a few minutes after midnight to Beirut's An-Nahar daily and-a Western news agency in the Lebanese capital. 

It was accompanied by an authenticating photograph of American hostage Joseph Cicippio, who is also held by the Revolutionary Justice Organization. 
Cicippio, 61, of Norristown, Pa., was kidnapped in Beirut Sept. 12, 1986. The poor-qual­ity photo, the same one 
The ObserveriJohn Rock 
the hostage-takers had released before, showed him from the waist up, sporting a bushy beard and without the specta­cles he usually wears. 
The statement indicated that obstacles in the delicate negotiations to free the Western hostag-es, which apparently blocked the expected release last week of Mann, 77, had been overcome. 
There had been expectations Mann would be freed after Israel on 
Brazil set to privatize state-run companies 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) -A campaign to privatize state companies appears ready to begin at last, but last-minute challenges are threatened by foes who called the auctions a "sell-out" to foreign interests. 
Bidding on the $1.8-billion Usiminas steel mill is to open Tuesday on the stock exchanges in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. It is the frrst-and some say the choicest -state enterprise to hit the auction block. 
Privatization has been pro­moted as the cornerstone of economic reforms sought by President Fernando Collor de Mello ever since he took office in 1990. But fierce opposition has kept the sales from pro­ceeding. 
Collor said the sale of 27 companies, worth $70 billion, would help to eliminate chronic 
;r::~~,~? 
Sept. 11 released 51 Arab prisoners and the bodies of nine Lebanese Shiite guerrillas killed by the Israelis in south Lebanon. 
But Revolutionary Justice claimed Thursday that Israel had reneged on a pledge to release 80 prisoners, and said Israeli intransigence was holding up release of the hostages. 
On Tuesday, however, the 33-line communique said: "The United Nations has intervened in the 
budget deficits and finance so­cial welfare programs. 
But opponents who argue that Usiminas and other companies targeted for s.ale are profitable enterprises. A federal court has yet to rule on a motion that would suspend Tuesday's auction on technical grounds. 
The government was confi­dent it would be allowed to proceed, since the courts have repeatedly rejected motions to block the sale of Usiminas, in­cluding a last-ditch effort Monday in Minas Gerais state, home of the mill. 
"I believe the public spirit will prevail," said Eduardo Modiano, head of the National Privatization Program, who called it "a great opportunity to rescue the economy from stagnation and achieve a siz­able reduction of the public deficit." 
person of the secretary-general and other intermediaries with immense efforts to salvage the situation." 
"They sought to narrow the gap and reach solutions satisfactory to all parties," it added. 
It did not say who the other intermediaries were. But the statement paid tribute to Syria and Iran for cooperating "to reach these positive results." 


' ~· ., ...., 

Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer page 7 
DO YOU WANT TO MAKE MONEY? 
Noriega assistant testifies at trial 
MIAMI (AP) -Manuel
The observer needs circulation 
Noriega's former right-hand man testified Monday that he
drivers. Available from 11 :00-1 :00 
delivered envelopes and suit­cases stuffed with drug cash to
fridays. 
his boss and accompanied him to a meeting with Fidel Castro In Cuba. 
Testifying in Noriega's drug­trafficking trial for a third day,
Paid Position!!! 
Luis del Cid described himself as a confidential "errand boy" for the ousted Panamanian dic­
Contact: Gil Gomez 239-7471 
tator. Del Cid also said the former
or Joe Guddemi 283-3936 
Panamanian ambassador to Paris, Gaspar Wittgreen, --------------'!"-----------.brought four "easy womel'" to 
MANDY PATINKIN 
IN CONCERT: DRESS CASUAL 

Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend October 4 • 5 
Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. &8 p.m. 
Tickets: Eves.-$26.50 $22.50 $17.50 $12.50 Matinee -$23.50 $19.50 $15.50 $12.50 
BOX OFFICE OPEN 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and until curtain on show days. 


PHONE (219) 284-9190 
MasterCard & VISA Group, Student, & Accepted Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
visit Noriega in 1983. Lead de­
nse attorney Frank Rubino angrily demanded a mistrial. After a bench conference, tes­timony continued but prosecu-
Great Taste Shows 
With only 15 calories per ounce, you can enjoy all the rich taste of sugar free Diet Colombo for only half the calories of regular frozen yogurt. No fat. No cholesterol. Taste it to believe it. 
YOGIS YOGURT 

\ ( C · ~ 
~. ( . . 
:.I . · 1 
-·-·~:.Z:::::::? '"-~ 
-' ~ .. A.:.--. i 
-----·-8 
~--B-UY ONE-LAnGE-SUG-AR-FREE-DIET--~ :i~~~d:~!:~:e?~~:~n~!esf:!~ 
I 1\! 1 the issue, it would not be in the I COLOMBO AND GET ASMALL ONE FREE 1form of a safe haven resolution. 
1 I Some residents of Knott Hall 1 Not valid with any other promotional offer. did not like the wording of the 
Limit one per customer. 

I I Coupon redeemable only at: I We deliver Mon, Tues , Thurs 1 Yogis Yogurt 17911 St. Rd. 23 
1 (Across from old Martins)L 2n-4337 
tors dido 't follow up on the women's visit. 
The former aide's testimony finished on a dramatic note when prosecutor Myles Malman asked him to identify Noriega. As del Cid pointed him out, his former commander stood up and del Cid reflexively rose to his feet in the witness box. 
Del Cid said his first contacts with Colombia's Medellin co­caine cartel came In late 1981 when, under Noriega's orders, he successfully mediated the kidnapping of Marta Ochoa, sister of three cartel leaders. She was released by leftist M-19 Colombian guerrillas after the cartel paid a $1.2 million ransom. 
Soon afterward, del Cid said, 
I resolution, according to hall I president Lisa Dugand. "We're I following along with Du Lac," 
I she said. 1 The presidents of Pasquerilla 
East, Grace, Lewis and Sorin 
I Halls declined to be:J Interviewed for this story. Lewis --· -------decided against the resolution on September 10. 
private planes from Colombia began flying into Panama City's downtown Paltilla airport. 
He said Noriega frequentlv sent him to Paitilla to meet wiLh three pilots who worked closely with Noriega. On one occasion in their hangar, pilot Enrique Pretelt, Introduced him to Jorge Luis Ochoa, one of the top car­tel leaders. 
Del Cld said that in November 1982, Noriega sent him "to pick up an envelope with money ­drug money," from another pilot, Floyd Carlton. Three months later, del Cid returned for another, heavier envelope. 
"Watch out, it might be a bomb," he recalled joking with Carlton. 
Dorms 
continued from page 5 
happen. In an environment that already assumes a negative judgment, you have to go farther, and affirm the positive." 
"I challenge the dorms to re­ally examine whether or not the needs of gay and lesbian students are being met," Vore said. 
However, Vore said he feels that if the safe haven issue has spawned dialogue about homo­sexual-related issues, then he has achieved something. 
Swize expressed similar ob­servations. She said some good has come out of the safe haven issue, in spite of Farley's rejec­tion, because more students are talking about homosexual­related Issues. 
Howard decided that the is­sue addressed by the resolution was not "a serious enough mat­
ter" to discuss with its hall ~ouncil, according to hall pres­
1dent Lara Crosby. 
Flanner's hall council "chose not to consider the resolution at this time," according to Co-
Researcher: Recycling won't solve all problems 
WASHINGTON (AP) Recycling has been oversold as the main answer to America's garbage problems, a researcher said Monday. 
"Studies show recycling itself has environmental side effects," Lynn Scarlett, vice president for research at the Reason Foundation in Santa Monica, Calif., wrote in the report. 
She cited fuel consumption and air pollution from the extra collection trucks and said recycling some products re­quires large amounts of energy or water. 
''I'm not opposed to recycling, but l think we need to put It in perspective," Scarlett said. 
Her study, "A Consumer's Guide to Environmental Myths and Realities," was sponsored by the Dallas-based National Center for Polley Analysis. The center and the Reason Foundation are supporters of free-market policy options in place of government regula­tions. 
Scarlett said that recycling of some materials, such as alu­minum cans, is clearly benefi­cial, but said local circum­stances could make recycling of some kinds of paper, glass or plastic bad for the economy and the environment. 
She criticized proposed gov­ernment standards for recycled content In specific products, saying they could be counter­productive. 
"What l endorse is the con­serving society," she said. "Sometimes we should throw things away because it uses less resources than reusing them." 

The Observer/John Rock

Buy some beads 
Beaded necklaces and braided bracelets are some of the variety of things being sold at the Guatemalan Imports shop set up in La Fortune. 

pages The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
New biography author calls John Lennon a nice guy 

It's not just anotherwayfor you
to spend your money. It's awayto he1p you save it. 
NEW YORK (AP) -In the 11 years since his murder, John Lennon has been dissected in excruciating and usually unflat­tering detail by authors ranging from ex-girlfriend May Pang to celebrity biographer Albert Goldman. 
But the latest book on Lennon provides a much kinder portrait of John in the months before his death. It was written by the ex­Beatle's personal assistant, a man who provided Goldman with extensive material for his toxic "The Lives of John Lennon." 
"I found him to be a sympa­thetic character," said Fred Seaman, author of "The Last Days of John Lennon," who went to work for the rock star in February 1979. 
"That's really the tragedy of John Lennon: His heart and his head were violently at odds," Seaman said in an interview. "When I met him, he struck me as a very brilliant mind trapped in a tortured body." 
The torturer, according to Seaman, was Yoko Ono. Lennon's widow dominated her late husband; he "had to pre­tend she loved him, and he loved her. More accurately, he was totally dependent on her, like a child to its mother," said Seaman. 
Seaman depicts Yoko as a dragon lady who cheated openly on John and was ad-dieted to heroin. She was cold and uncaring toward their son Sean, according to Seaman, and ordered thugs to beat the author. 
The last allegation is the only new one about Ono, but it points to the unusual history of this book and its author. Seaman pleaded guilty in 1983 to stealing Lennon's private di­aries; Ono twice blocked publi­cation of previous manuscripts by Seaman. 
"John used to have a saying: 'If it doesn't kill you, it'll make you stronger.' And after surviv­ing the attack by Yoko's goons and my criminal conviction without no breakdown and no suicide, I knew sooner or later my story would come out," said Seaman. 
The author also presents his side of the diaries theft for the first time: he says he was fol­lowing John's request that the volumes go to his son Julian. Seaman claims he planned to make copies for Julian and re­turn the originals to Yoko, but was double-crossed by a friend. 
Ono spokesman Elliot Mintz dismissed Seaman's effort be­fore it was even published. 
"Yoko never reads any of these books. I cannot imagine what could possibly be new. I think this book comes out be­cause of the John Lennon name and the Kitty Kelley mentality," Mintz said. 
Seaman's dealings with Yoko seem to have left the author somewhat paranoid. When the line became cluttered with static during the telephone in­terview, he said, with a nervous laugh, "Maybe my phone is be­ing tapped. Why would anybody want to tap my phone?" 
Seaman, despite the tone of his book and that of Goldman's effort, said they are not at odds with one another in detailing Lennon's life. 
"Albert Goldman is a devil's advocate. His interpretation of Lennon is harsh, but not un­fair," he said. "Albert wasn't around John, and he had to rely on the testimony of other peo­ple." 
Now; get the Card and get Stu~ent Privileg~s. Special savtngs created JUSt for you. Only from American Express. 
If you think the American Express"' Card is simply another way to buy things, wed like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you save. 
Become a Student Card member today, and you'll automatically get American Express"' Student Privileges,~ our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the money you spend. 
3ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT APRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 
Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: Each certificate could save you as much as $250 over regular ContinentalAirlinesfares on a coast-to-coast trip. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES" OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERYMONTH FOR AYEAR 
also help you save on your 
long· For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional could save more than $44 benefits of Caramembership-likewhen you enroll and use the personal attention you can getthe American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives.And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in 
Talk about va,ue. Now the Card can 
change your current long· 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 
Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the savingsyou need on the things you want-a sure way to make the most of 
a college budget. This year alone, Student Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. 
You'll find your certificates in each issue of our exclusive student magazine, American Express"' Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today. 
AGOOD INVESTMENT, AGREAT VALUE 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All ofwhich goes to show that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways 
for you to spend your money, there are few that help you save it. Apply today. ® 


An Amencan Express company 
•To be eligible, you must be approved by December 31, 1991 •• A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 is equal to the charges for a domestic 30·minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call and appropnate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by 
December 31, 1991 © 1991 American Ex~-;Travel Rela1ed S<rvices Compan~ Inc 


Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 

Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Roseanne Arnold joins other stars speaking out on childhood incest 
For Those Interested In Law.School: 
The Law Caravan is here on Wednesday, September 25th. 
Stop by Stepan Center from 
10:30 am to 2:30 pm and meet 
with represe.ntGtives from approximately 50 Law Schools. 

(AP)-"My name's Roseanne, and I'm an incest survivor." 
With those words, actress Roseanne Arnold has joined a growing number of public fig­ures who by breaking years of silence have helped bring the devastation of childhood sexual abuse into the open. 
"It takes a tremendous amount of courage to come forward," said Marilyn Van Derbur Atler, a former Miss America who went public in May. "We've been silent for generations, unable to stand up without shame." 
But since spring, when Atler appeared on the cover of People magazine, rumblings have be­come a revolution. More and more adult incest survivors are defying the taboo as never be­fore. 
In addition to Atler and Arnold, talk show host Oprah Winfrey, singer LaToya Jackson and former Sen. Paula Hawkins have said publicly they were sexually abused as children. 
"The movement to dispel the myths has really exploded," said Susan Forward, a therapist whose specialty includes treating sexually abused peo­ple. 
"When I published 'Betrayal of Innocence' in 1979, I was out there banging on doors, but I couldn't get anybody to talk about it," Forward said from Bel Air, Calif. "For a long time it was a terribly lonely road." 
The ugly and uncomfortableCheck it out reality was long evaded. But stati!ltics indicate one in four
This wooden sculpture is one of the many creative pieces of art 
girls and one in seven boys are
that decorates the lawn in front of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. 
sexually abused by age 18, ac-

Roseanne Arnold 
cording to the National Com­
mittee for the Prevention of 
Child Abuse in Chicago. 
The vast majority, however, do not report the violation until years later -if ever. The ram­ifications are too painful; the shame may seem too great. 
"Everybody would rather deny that someone could do this kind of thing to a child," said Jo Blish, 32, who was abused by her late grandfather. "It's easier, especially for the scared and battered. That's why Roseanne is a model of courage. Those of us who can speak out must do it." 
Arnold, the 38-year-old star of television's "Roseanne," spoke out before an audience of 1,100 tearful victims and ther­apists Saturday at a conference on incest in Denver. 
Her parents, who live in Salt Lake City, are not listed in the phone directory and could not be reached. 
"Don't stay untreated," Arnold said in an hour-long speech. "It will kill you. Incest takes away your power, your access to your thought process, 
your ability to love, even feel. 
Incest takes away your life." 
Arnold said sexual abuse by 
both her mother and father 
drove her to consider suicide, to 
smoke five packs of cigarettes a 
day and to abuse drugs, alcohol 
and food. 
"There is so much anger, so 
much pain involved when par­
ents betray a child's basic trust, 
and as long as it remains a 
secret-THE secret -the pain 
goes on," said Scott Chase, who 
has helped his lover confront 
childhood abuse. 
"Eventually you have to take the risk," Chase, 37, said from Boston. "It's like falling out of an airplane: You think you've got your parachute on, but you're not absolutely sure. Will there be someone there to catch you?" 
Fortunately, during the last 10 years a tremendous safety net has developed for incest survivors. They are meeting in church halls, going on wilder­ness retreats, expressing them­selves through music, art, the­ater and dance. 
"Talking about it as public figures have is just one stage," said Laura Davis, whose book, "The Courage to Heal," is for many the incest survivor's bible. "It's important, but there's an incredible amount of work that has still to be done to overcome the effects of abuse." 
Recovery often begins with simple flashbacks, a flickering of memory that frequently crops up between ages 35 to 50. 
·-----·-------·-------------·--·--·----· .. --... ---··~··-·· 
Viewpoint 
Page 10 Tuesday, September 24, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edhor-in.Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-s Edhor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ••....Julie Sheridan VI-point Edhor..••••.••.•.•.•.•.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••.•••.• Alissa Murphy Sports Edhor •••••••••..••..David Dieteman Production Manager ..••...••.•.Jay Colucci Accent Edhor.••...•••..••....•..John O"Brien Sy .. 1ems Manager ••••.••••.•••.•. Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••••••••••.Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ••••••••••••••••.•••.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edhor ...•.•••••••Emily Willen Controller•••.•••••••••••••••••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL Non-social options need to be offered 
Students on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame cam­puses are well aware of the fact that Saint Mary's does not provide the social opportunities for the ND/SMC community. From day one, upperclass students tell Saint Mary's fresh­men to save their quarters for shuttle fare, and Notre Dame students are told to expect the typical weekend arrival of the "Smick Chicks." 
Saint Mary's residence life does not foster an atmosphere for social entertainment. The strict visitation policy re­stricts guests from making unannounced visits, and limits spontaneous interaction due to the required escorts at all times. Quiet hour policies make gatherings difficult as any size group in a room is bound to result in a noise violation. 
So what do the students do? As expected, they look else­where for social opportunities. Sixty percent of the senior class as well as a significant amount of underclassmen moved to off-campus housing for the freedom and social possibilities it provides. Those who remain in the halls know they will be traveling to Notre Dame or off-campus for par­ties. 
Saint Mary's presence at Notre Dame parties results in tense situations. A competitive rivalry exists between the women at the two schools. Not around during the week, Saint Mary's impression is very limited and often a_ppea_rs socially threatening. While parties provide an opportumty to meet the members of the opposite sex, often efforts are not made for the women at the schools to meet beyond a possible brief introduction. . 
The relationship between Notre Dame men and Samt Mary's women exists almost only on a social level. Men and women from each school rarely meet on a daily basis. They don't work on projects together. They don't compete in classes. They don't often volunteer together. The relation­ship is strictly limited to social acquaintance. 
In order to improve relations, interaction between the groups needs to grow in non-threatening situations. If classes and halls could take popular programs on each campus and invite the other school to participate, students may soon discover usually you can't tell which school some­one attends, nor does it matter. 
Saint Mary's students who claim that nothing is ever hap­pening at their school need to make efforts to remedy the situation. Notre Dame students who only interact with Saint Mary's women in social setting may change their opinion of their counterparts if they included them more in other University events. 
DilTerent types or events which will allow students to in­teract more freely may help facilitate an end to degrading stereotypes that exist on both campuses. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 

I feel obligated to write in re­sponse to Karl Eichelberger's letter to the editor (The Observer, Sept. 18). I am sure that he was trying to make a point in regards to the inde­pendence of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame and how that is meditated through such events as football tickets. 
Unfortunately Mr. Eichelberger gets tangled up in his personal feelings and offends me personally and the student body of Saint Mary's as a whole. 
If Mr. Eichelberger were to come to Saint Mary's, sit in our classrooms, eat in our dining hall, and really get to know Saint.Mary's women and o"ur community I think he would fmd the answer to his question, "Are Saint Mary's students not proud of where they go to school?" In fact he would fmd a vibrant, dynamic community of women living together and learning from one another. 
No, we are not Notre Dame. Nor do we want to be mistaken for Notre Dame students, in fact most Saint Mary's students go to great pains to differentiate themselves as Saint Mary's students. 
Although the formal name of the school is Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, it is referring to the area not the university to distinguish it from the many other Saint 
Mary's Colleges  across  the  
country.  
It  is  evident  that  Mr.  

Eichelberger knows little in re­gards to the history of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. He ac­cuses us of riding on the coat­tails of Notre Dame. Obviously he does not know that Notre Dame has tried repeatedly to 
Saint Mary merge with them and consistently is has been Saint Mary's that 
resists-fighting  to  remain  
independent.  
Speaking  of  pride,  Mr.  

Eichelberger does not even mention that 1991 is the 150th anniversary of the Sisters of the Holy Cross coming to America and founding of what is today Saint Mary's College. 
Mr. Eichelberger gives an ex­ample of a Saint Mary's student he met at a party and then pro­ceeds to characterize an entire community from her. There are many obvious problems in thinking in this manner. What if I did the same thing in judg­ing Notre Dame students who wear tee-shirts proclaiming their Catholicity while condemning others as criminals? 
We at both these schools make much of our religion, but is this what Eichelberger thinks Jesus meant when he said love one another? 
I would submit to Karl Eichelberger and others on both campuses that think like him that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are not the same. The two schools are actually quite different. Notre Dame is a large research oriented uni­versity while Saint Mary's is a small liberal arts women's col­
ege. We sions. 
But I believe it is more impor­tant to leave these differences behind and concentrate on the community we inherently share as Catholic places of learning. Our dependence on each other is manifest as I stand in Regina chapel or Alumni chapel and we pray for the students on both campuses because we have a genuine concern for each other, not out of an attitude of competition. 
One last word to Mr. Eichelberger. In 1990, U.S. News and World Report listed their best colleges in America in which Notre Dame slipped out of the top 25 of their category while Saint Mary's climbed up another notch in the top 5 of theirs. 
Eichelberger needs to open his eyes and realize how 
· oblivious he is as to what actually goes on at Saint Mary's. Before he writes another letter condemning Saint Mary's I suggest he visit the campus and try to learn what goes on in this unique community. His type of immature bantering has gone far too long between our schools and I would hope that we shall see an end to it soon. Peggy Abood Le Mans Hall Sept: 18, 1991 

Accent 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 Page 11 
WAKE UP I LooK OuT 

in the community but not a part of the HNotre The Observer/John Hock and Joe Moody 
Dame Family. H 
By JOE MOODY Viewpoint Editor 
"I don't feel comfortable here," said Tom, age 16, with an honest smile as I walked through campus with him re­cently. 
lie held on tightly to his girlfriend, 15-year-old Helen. Following along was David, Helen's younger brother. David strolled happily along enjoying the sights, oblivious at age 12 to the double stares and judgmental glares that anyone in Harley Davidson leather and cowboy chains seemingly must receive. 
Tom's uncomfortable feeling worsened moments later. After leaving the three to walt in LaFortune while I attended a meeting, they were ap­proached by a Notre Dame security officer who questioned and held them until I returned. 
The officer then kindly apologized and went his way. Tom and Helen were both a little shaken up. "Just 'cause we look different," said Helen wtth her beautiful, green eyes blazing. 
David found It exciting. "The cop was nice," he said. Most people at Notre Dame are. 
As we drove off, David stared out the window humming to the song on the radio, "Wooden Ships." Tom dis­cussed with Helen where she should sleep that night-not another word about being stopped and interrogated. Nothing new under their sun. 
Tom, at an age in life when most kids are occupied with thoughts of prom, football games and homework, Is facing the realities of a career, mar­riage and Independent living. 
He left high school just months ago as a second year freshman. "I skipped a lot," he explained from under the brim of his blue Led Zeppelin hat. "I messed up so bad I wasn't gonna be able to catch up." 
Tom has managed to avoid the snare of drugs and crime that so many fall to that come from similar backgrounds, so devoid of opportunity and assistance. 
Tom's mother has been his only guide, still providing shelter for him. His father left five years ago when Tom was 11. His parents have been separated for five years. 
Currently, Tom is employed full-time at Kentucky Fried Chicken. For now it Is his niche In life. He's saved enough money to buy a 1972 Tornado. His 
Helen, 15, (from left) Tom, 16, and David, 12, sit on Tom's 1972 Tornado outside of Helen's house. 
bike has been his main mode of transportation so far, but as soon as he does some necessary repairs to the Tornado, he hopes to be driving. 
The following is an interview with Tom conducted on September 16, 1991: 
If you could go to Notre Dame, what would you study? 
Probably business management. I'd like to start a business in dry-walling and painting. 
If you were suddenly given one million dollars, what would you do with it? 
I'd buy my parents... I mean my mother, something nice that she'd want. She's wanted a Chrysler LeBaron convertible for awhile. And I'd just buy my friends things they like. Something nice. Plus, put some for myself in the bank and let it sit there for interest. 
How would you define the typical Notre Dame student? 
Well, from most of 'em ... high class. You know, they think they're bettei: than other people. That's about it. 
What do you think of Catholics? 
They're normal people like me and everybody else. It's just their decision of religion. 
What do you think of the United States? 
I love America. 

What did you dream of becoming as a young child? 
I would have liked to have been a cop... and also a doctor. 
What stopped you? 
I've seen bad cops that just go after people for their skin color. Or a lot of dirty cops that arrest people for one thing a then they turn around and do it themselves. On the part of a doctor, I just messed up in school. 
What do you hope to be in the future? 
To be able to help people out any way I can. You know, like on the part of havin' my own business, I'd like to go out, get the homeless people and train them for the job. That way they'd be able to make some money and be able to make a living. 
Who has helped you most in life? 
Probably my mother. 
In what way? 

She's helped me out with bein' on my own and it's taught me a lot. You know, showin' me how to manage my money. I'm not great at it but I have learned a lot. Then on the school part, she was always gettin' after me. At first I didn't really understand it. I didn't really care. And then after all my skippin', I found out she was right. 
Who has hurt you the most in life? 
My father. He was an alcoholic. He drank about three cases of beer a week. And every weekend when he'd get drunk, he'd beat my mother over stupid stuff, and me and my sister too. 
Who or what do you love most in life? 
My mother and Christ. 

Without many boundaries or restrictions, Tom and Helen have been free to choose their own roads in life. 
What do you fear most in life? Death. Do you believe the society we live 
in is a just one? 

In a way it is... But then, some people judge people by how they look or how they dress. 
Do you believe the education system helped prepare you for life? 
The way I see it, they just pass people just to get 'em out of the class. Like at LaSalle [High School] they tell the kids to do this but a lot of 'em don't explain it. 
If you could say one thing to the entire Notre name community, what would you say? 
Urn... [long pause] ...Think about others instead of thinkin' everything's great 'cause it Is for yourselves. 
The life Tom, Helen and David live is a day to day life. Faced with toils and troubles most late 20th century chil­dren are not accustomed to, they manage to shine on with an Inner brilliance. A peace exists In their presence that would make a Zen monk jealous. 
They laugh together and face their fears and peers like any other children. They don't see themselves as any different, because they aren't. 
Not book-smart but street-smart, they exist in the type of simplicity that is free from fronts, alterior motives or dishonesty. 
No one-way road to the almighty dollar sign was paved before them. On their road they simply have their beliefs, hopes, memories both good and bad, an occasional Marlboro Red, and each other. 
The following is a poem written by Helen, age 15: 
I've been hurt so much in many way that had such an affect on my life. Now I've come to realize that I'll never stop my eyes from crying tears . that let out my fears. Some people call me ugly or maybe even stupid. But I don't care because I am special, 
somebody, me. Nobody likes who I am. But that don't matter if they don't 
like me cause I am glad to be who I am. Nobody can ever replace me 'cause I am one of a kind. 
I don't know how long I'll live or how long I'll stay, that is why I wrote this poem. 

Accent

Page 12 Tuesday, September 24, 1991 

•
OVI8S 
in color 
Multicultural film festival asks students to expand horizons 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

"Hair is a common problem for everyone." 
According to Pat Washington, director of Saint Mary's Minority, International and Non­Traditional Student Life (MINT), this is the issue of the film, "Hairpiece," that started the Multicultural Film Festival on Monday. 
"You have to decide whether to dye it or leave it natural. Go straight or go curly. Cut it short or grow it long. 'Hairpiece' is about how African-American women deal with their hair." 
Many other areas of interest will be explored in the four-day series that will focus on the commonalities and the differences that bind us together and sometimes tear us apart. 
The series features ten films over a four night span. 
Washington said that "the films are all so different" and to bear in mind that they are "not complete pictures, but a glimpse into the world of the women of color." 
The films that were selected by Saint Mary's students last spring take a different route than the usual stereotypical portraits of minorities. Washington emphasized they are "not about men with male directors. Women are the main characters and the directors when possible." 
The goal of the festival is to educate and "celebrate the diversity of women of color" since in the cinema we "rarely see stuff that's positive." 
There are numerous advantages to showing the chosen films and using the Oprah Winfrey format where an "emcee goes into the audience and asks questions." 
The festival will serve as an "educational opportunity to learn about people of color" both for Caucasians and for minorities "who may learn something new about their her­itage." 
Washington said the community gathering will "focus on characters as spokespersons, not on students" thereby permitting freer discussion. Washington hopes to draw a mixed crowd, targeting "young people from the community with limited information." 
The films present an "opportunity for everybody to learn something :-.hnnt somebody else. Some films hit it right on target, some slide around the target." 
Whatever the case, students can expect to see reflections on the lives of African­American, Asian-American, and Mexican­American women in situations specific to 
Film Fest Schedule 
lilesday, Sept. 24 
7 p.m. "Talking History" and "Knowing Her Place." Room 105, Saint Mary's Science Hall 
Wednesday, Sept. 25 
7 p.m."Unfinished Business" and "Four Women." Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 
.Thursday, Sept. 28 
7 p.m. "Chulas Fronteras" and "From Here, From This Side." Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 
women of color and ones that all women can relate to. 
"But Then, She's Betty Carter" deals with a female jazz singer struggling to be taken seriously. Carter faced problems of age, race, and gender and the stereotype of "independent women being perceived as cold." 
Although the films have women in dominant roles as individuals and not as someone's wife or girlfriend, Washington did not ignore the fact that men are not without their own problems. 
"Not all Notre Dame graduates are engineers or doctors. What about the art major? What happens to him? He may not be gay but how will he be perceived by people if he wears long hair and has a 'wild' look?" Washington asked. Continuing on the subject of appearances, she questioned how a black male will be perceived by his professors if he chooses to wear dredlocks. 
"We are influenced by gender, age, language, ethnicity, religion, and experiences. Those [factors] filtEr what you say and teach. Interpretation of results [of your experience] is filtered by who you are," Washington said. 
Washington wants to give students a chance to look at life beyond themselves. The videos are not available in video stores. "HopPfnlly., it [the film festival] will generate interest among students. 
"Maybe students will take a look around them and see how limited they are. It's not completely their fault because the materials aren't available to them." 
Guns N' Roses release old talent in new ways 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Usa Your Illusion I * * * * 
Accent Writer 

Usa Y• lluslon 1 


The six members of Guns N' Roses are 
Guns 'N Roses 
(out of five)
men. 

Testosterone oozes from their every and rush of its seeming mate; "Garden 
pore, and, if they had come into 
Of Eden."

popularity 10 years ago, we would have The only real disappointment on thecalled them macho. They make music 
first album is "November Rain," in
about drinking and women and parties which Guns N' Roses sadly falls into the and sex. 
genre of balladeers like Winger and BonAnd America loves it. 
Jovi.

With the simultaneous release of Use This is but a small smudge, however,Your Illusion I and Use Your Illusion II with 30 songs and 2 1/2 hours of music last week, the Los Angeles band again between the two albums. 
staked its claim as the foremost rock 'n' 
rollers of their generation. 
are also also satisfying, with rockers
Both of the new albums are fun, 
like "You Could Be Mine" and "Shotgunexciting expositions of GN'R's exciting Blues" leading the way.
talents. Use Your Illusion I begins with the rush of "Right Next Door To Hell," 
"Civil War" and "Knockin' On
which immediately gives the listener an Heaven's Door" were both released onidea of what to expect. 
compilations last year, and appear againHowever, the band is able to slow here. "Civil War" takes a rational stand, down for "Dust N' Bones" and the first unlike many GN'R songs, against war,single from Use Your Illusion I, "Don't while the latter song is a well-craftedCry." 
rendition of a Bob Dylan classic. 
"Bad Obsession" is a bluesy number The rest of the album is also exciting, that, like several other songs on the two 
with "14 Years," "Yesterdays" andalbums, details the excesses that 
"Locomotive" providing highlights. 
occurred during Guns N' Roses rise. 
The closing song, "My World," is a"Double Talkin' Jive" is forbidding, and funky rap which shows, as so manyits acoustic guitar outro shows a side of artists have recently, that rock and rapguitarist Slash not often heard. 
go together like rock and roll. 
"The Garden," with its especially 
Guns N' Roses feels that it has been
gritty vocals, whining guitar and 
mistreated by the press in the past. With ethereal background voices, is eerie and 
"Don't Damn Me" and "Get In The
contrasts with the straightforwardness Ring," Guns N' Roses tells of their anger, 
~.· 

The macho sound of Guns N' Roses dominates their two albums released last week: 
Use Your Illusion I and Use Your Illusion II. 
asking for a confrontation with all journalists who have disrespected them. 
Among other things, the band is apparently furious about the attention they received for lyrics from "One In A Million," from the G'N'R Lies EP, which were labeled as both homophobic and racist. 
Though they have shown little remorse, Guns N' Roses does not make the same mistakes twice. The band avoid any lyrics which could be offensive to minorities or homosexuals. 
Women, however, are not spared. 
"Pretty Tied Up," though described as a joke in the band's press release, is nevertheless a graphic description of bondage, ~bile "Back Off, Bitch" also comes dangerously close to condoning violence toward women. 
The band crosses the line here, dealing out the same cowardly attacks of the pen that it has been dealt in the 
past. 

Though this misogyny should not lightly be brushed aside, the message of freedom which Guns N' Roses sends out on this album is admirable. Underneath the Parental Advisory sticker on the shrinkwrap, the band has included a concise message to those who would restrict the purchase of their album and 
its "offensive" lyrics. 
Guns N' Roses' testosterone-driven sound comes of well on Use Your Illusion I & II, and the albums re­establish the band as the kings of rock 
'n' roll. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer page 13 
I would run with my coach and "I think its better this way. "We spent about one and a would have regretted it if I a few others at at time." There's more emphasis on the half years trying to recruit her," hadn't come."
Flood 
In NCAA cross country, how-team, and placing as a team is Connelly said. Her decision to accept is cer­ever, the name of the game is important," Flood said. The decision to attend Notre tainly a plus for the Notre Dame 
continued from page 20 
team placement. While each Coach Tim Connelly first be­Dame after being offered a women's cross country Individual must do their best, a came interested in recruiting scholarship was difficult but program. "She's one of a lot of Flood is running with a team. good effort by one runner Eva about two years ago when clear to Flood. young kids we have," Connelly· 
"I never ran with a team-It means nothing if the rest of the Brian Peppard, a former Notre said. Look for her continued was always an individual ef-team is too far back. This team Dame runner from Dublin, "My parents thought it was a Impact on women's cross coun­fort," Flood explained. "To train philosophy is new to Flood. made him aware of her. great opportunity. I think I try. 
The ObseNer acoepta da&&Wieda f1N9fY bualneaa day from 10 Lm. to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame olllce, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline tor next-day dauHieda Ia 3p.m. All claaaHieda must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including aN spaces. 
Classifieds 
I 
I 
FOUND: SEIKO WATCH AT THE Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade Need Navy GA's--call Derek at .#.#'#·#·#·#·#·#·#·#·# GROTTO. CALL & DESCRIBE 284-for 4 Pitt GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. x1374
NOTICES 
5168. 

HEY P.W.­Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call NEEDED: 
•NOTRE DAME VIDEO• LOST Kevin@# 1407. 
QUEEN WEEK IS HERE II New Movies: Gold colored dass ring 3 G.A.'s to USC game 
Awakenings between Fitzpatrick and I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR please call Mike at xt578 Come out and support yourDances with Wolves Flanner TENN GAME II X 1684 
section queen canidates. Edward Scissorhands Please call Tom x1172 NEED 2 NAVY GAS New Jack City PLEASE HELPII 29 
I 
@284·50 The Schedule: Home Alone My two (BIG) brothers are comingWANTED I for the USC game-they will be NeedTenn GAs Today-The World's slowest bike 
Special Membership . . VERY MADill Have$$$$ race. Rates Available Now $Marketing Co. needs ND/SMC don't get them tix. Karen x4808 In front of PW at 7pmstudents originally from South Bend. NEED 2 USC GA'S·PLEASE II Lafortune Student Center Make own hours,GREAT PAY, good Call Colleen at X4900. HELP I 
Wed· Cartoon Nita. 4p.m.·11p.m. exp.lor resumes.$$271·1803$$ 
TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED In the Party room at 8pm
........................

Seven Days a Week Please call Sam Santo at 
WANTED: Off·campus roommate. NEED: NO ALUM NEEDS TICKETS (201)2t7-0030 (home) or Thurs-Jello Tug-of-war and USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME (201) 992·8700 (work). Barbeque.25% off list price GAMES. 
In Mod Quad at Spmt 0.5:30 everyday HELPII DESPERATELY need CALL JOE AT #271-1430. I HAVE PU RDUETIX 
Pandora's Books comer of NO 4 GA's for USC lor family II ························ CALLJIMX2341 and ... the grand finale .... 
ave & Howard Alice x4907 
NEED t PITT GA I'M SHIT OUT OF LUCK ....UNLESS The Road to Royalty SYR with a Desperately need ride lor Oct. Sheri x2t9t YOU SEll ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. coronation at Midnight. TYPING AVAILABLE Break-anywhere on LI,NY 
CAll X341 4 ·ASK FOR KATHY'S 287·4082 
Please help II X2t72 Keri PITT TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX LOG Get dates I Get psyched I and Alum needs 2 GA's lor Pitt. Will pay Support your Oueenlll 
Typing BABYSITTER NEEDED $$$. Call at work VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) Fast, Professional TUESDAYS/THURSDAYS, 8·5 (312) 70t-6204 or at home BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. '#'#'#·#·#·#·#·#·#·#·#· 2n-7406 FOR ONE-YEAR OLD. MUST (708) 6t6-78t8 anytime. GA'SFOR HIS DOMER 
HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. PITI TIX PITT TIX PITI TIX RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. HOUSE SITIEA AVAILABLE. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL 
liPLESS B Y CALLING X3414 OR Good rates. Save Money. Call me EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE. SUSAN 259·6006. 2G.A.,s Stanford For Sale 34100RAJ RAMONA'S AFTER lor a quote 9:30·6:00, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. Call John @4050 tAM 
289-1993. OHice near campus.REASONABLE DAILY RATE. CALL PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA 
MELISSA 277-5708. Now hiring drivers 10-40 hrs. per NEEDED: SIX TENN. GAs I NEEDS T ICKETS TO NDIPITT Becky-To tell you what these past 
I 
wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible
I 
call Jeremy 277-4873 BIG $$$CAll MATI AT 277-months have meant to me would schedules & perks. Call today 271· . 
4673 use up pages of this paper. I am lost
LOST/FOUND 
tt77. WANTED: 2 NO/TN tickets. CAll in you and I am found. You are my 
502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm '68ALUM DESPERATELY 
one and only, as I'm proud to be LOST: Student 1.0. card case HOUSE MATE WANTED: Share 2 collect. WANTS2GA'STO 
yours. Looking forward to this Fri. w/ temporary 1.0., BR house with Grad M. Avail NOW. TE NNORUSC 
Will I be wearing my t-shirt, shorts, driver's license, and 288-3878lv msg. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR CALLJOANNE 2184 OR 3783 
and bow tie? Wait and see, sweet other cards belonging NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL 
thing Ill to Francis Kelly. COLLECT 614·459-0074 DESPERATELY SEEKING PITT PLEASE return to 307 CarrolII FOR RENT EVENINGS. AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
I I 
LIZ-3783 OR 2184 every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. 
························ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S & TENN ST. Eastern time. Train and jump the·········Losr··········· 219-29t-7153 NEED 4 PITI GA'S. X2204. Purdue tickets lor saleI Call Carrie same day. Modem equipment and Black Leather Men's Wallet @ 4029. training programs. Licensed at the Common's · If you found it or House for Rent 2 PURDUE TIX FOR SALE instructors. FFI call Skydive took It by accident $t50/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 CHEAP Xt659 ROB Mike needs PITT GAs x1450 Hastings (616) 948-2665. PLEASE CAll 8am-4pm. Kristen Harknett 288-942t I have 2 NAVY GAs FOR SALE I 2 STU TIX BOOKS CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP
......................................... 
Furnished apts. near N.D . will trade for 2 PITI GAs 288-5859 MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M.
....... 
cozy 1 bedrm $255 call Nicole at x3719 FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 
dean 2 bedrrn $340, Have 6 tix to Stanford. Found: EYEGLASSES on north dept. ref. 1·800-582-9320. I need tickets for the Tennessee Make offer. hi quad between BP and game. Call 277-6693. call xt563 Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &claim NOTRE DAME AVE.2 Scrodamungus, 
BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 NOTRE DAME NEED2GA's FOR PITT, USC, The ravages of age have not My girlfriend gave me a black, TICKETS WANTED ANDTENN . CALL GREG x2092 affected you. Really. Happy green and yellow bead before Wanted: Female apt. mate, 2-bdrm. 271-1371 Birthday I her car wreck and I lost It apt. at Turde Creek. Call277-5463 I NEED USC tickets so bad I feel it Scrodiddly 22 Sep about 7:15pm between alterS pm. TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS deep inside me. the Rocke and 06 parking. If I RANDY 80().323-7687 Call me. Tomorrow is Perry Osborn's 20th you found it plz call David at Trish birthday. Why don't you ladies of 289-3234. FOR SALE 2 USC GA's Needed 289-7934 ND/SMC stop over and let him
I 

Call Patrick@ 271-t573 show you 101 different uses lor a FOUND: Denim jacket in parking Tappan Range • 30'-White· PurdueGA's for salel Call P.l. x2859 stethescope (nor all of them are lot behind ACC on Saturday. Call Electric· Almost New· $t50 ·239-i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791 or Mike x11 77 medical). The countdown is onI x4076. 5510 Days 
Need 4 USC GA's Need 3-4 PITI. TICKETS. Will •cAMP LEWIS • CAMP LEWIS • LOST: RED, WHITE AND BLUE Guitar lessons Call Bill pay the big bucksI JeH 234-2396. no tent-building BIKE HELMET IN EITHER from NO Teacher X1143 skills necessary CUSHING OR O'SHAG ON 9111 Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 
I
OR 9112. PLEASE CALLIIII NEED 4 TENNGA'S. 288-9621 PERSONAL JASMINE GROOVE DAVID--271·8577 I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT @ Club 23 Thursday, Sept. 26
I

TICKETS TIX, AND$$$$$ TO TRADE. I am the Lizard King and I can do
I

FOUND men's gold watch In anything. LARBABY, Fltz computer lab Wed. night NEED 2GA OR 1 STOlt GA FOR NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR Records we never thought call #1245 USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. POOR RELATIVES. $$$$ would be broken: 1) 
CALL KEVIN Xt589 Need GA's to all home games. Bob Beamon's 29' 21/2' LOST · MY LICENSE PLATE i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why have extra Purdue tix. long jump Illinois plate reading don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. Need one Pitt GA. X2172 ask lor Call Tom x1 563 2) Babe Ruth's 715 HR's 
•o TROIT'Iosr Thurs. 19 Sept. Call me lor a good time, 277-6885. Keri 3) Columbia's 36 game losing somewhere between Stanley FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + streak Kaplan Center (next to Turde NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR I just want somebody to love... CASHICANCUN, JAMAICA, 4) Ty Cobb's 4190 Hits Creek) and the D-2 lot. PLEASE call NAVY GAME. CALL MARK and two NAVY GA'sl BAHAMASI SELL TRIPS ON 5) LARBABY's 393 days of If you have It or any information · it's COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5t61. THink you can help? call1371 CAMPUS A NO EARN FREE TRIP LONELINESS I going to cost a bundle to replace. ask lor STEVE. +BONUS CASHI FOUR Reward offered lor return • no need GA's to TENN game WILL TOP •ANY" PRICE Ill SEASONS 1·800.331·3136. CONGRATULATIONS, questions asked. Call 4911. lisa 2572 NO KIDDING Ill DR. Ruth 
MonicaEig elberger is a ho. LOST: An Indiana driver's liscence NO FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDEDI Pitt GAs Navy stud. If CLUB 23 
I am in desperate need of a ride to CINCINNATI this weekend. Please call Sean at X1496. 
J. I love you. -Bethany 
ATIENTION CONVERTIBLE CAR OWNERS: Interested in being a part of Homecoming? Call Staph at x4t89 lor details. 
Michael, Days of gold, nights of lire Aulllmn does my love inspire . 
P.S. Good luck on Phyalca todayI -A-. 
Scot. rm rKXry I can't be with you today! We11 make up lor It on Friday. love, Becky 
Happy 7th I 

To the drunken Grace Hall 7th floor Air Force ROTC "FLANNER HAll FOOTBALL IN YOUR FACE' 
Karen who played the hammer at Ariel, please call x1563 
Ride needed to Columbus, OH area 9-27 and t0-4. Will pay tolls and gas. Lisa 2n-6321 
NEED 1 or 2 Pin GA's . Please call Jill272-1967. 
Mary Beaton: Bugs. Hair. Garlic bread. Germany. Phone Home. Love, Cin and Malis. 
Amanda P. and Kelley G. Good afternoon, sunshines.Enjoy your yo-<:ream. 
-Your Partners in Crime. 
Hey Jules I 
Did you eat all ten of those big BRATSI1 Hope you enjoyed every luscious bite! 
Have a good day I Sincerely, Your old but not lost sectionmatesl 
POSITIVE X-TRA INCOME 
Mall Letters -$500-$2000 In Spare Time Free Details: SASE To: 
Jamwln Associate 1387 Eggert Pl. • Far Rockaway, NY 11691 
UISI $500...$1000...$1500 
IFOD-LI 
t~:r·:·J~ 
FU._.D 
RAISING 
For your fraternity,sorority, team or other campus organization. 
A8SO'UTI'Y' NO INVIA'MIN1' .IQUI.IDI 
CAll1·800-950·6472, ext. SO 
The Observer Is now 
and St. Mary's 1.0. Call Sara during WANTED. TOP$$$. 8()().638-7655. you can help call Scott 2373. JOY on men: "If you don't come & 
accepting applications 
the day@ with an inviration, don't come at all' VIC'S SUBS 
for:

(708) 866-8700 and In the evening I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE I NEED TENN TIX BADLY I @ (312) 281-5166. WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A CALL MIKE AT 1103. JENon men: "Why live together are now open from 
RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS when you can spend the night?" 11 amto3am LOST OR STOLEN ADDED BONUS NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's lor Alum. 

Circulation Drivers 
LICENSE PLATE CHRIS X3414 or 3410 Please call Susan: 284-4435 MONYon men: "The last time I saw The only alternative Illinois plate reading you, you were in your underwear" Live Music and Specials "() TROIT" missing since Please, I need 3 Pin GA's (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) 
Must be available Friday 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off WANTED: 3 PITT GA's lor Mattx3795 Are you 90ing to PURDUE? I need Phone : 234-4015 ao~re between Kaplan family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKSI a ride. Beth x4341 
afternoons 

Educational Center (next ID Tunle HELP MEl Dan x2349 FOR SA(E, 2 TIXS ALL HOME Creek) and the 0-2 lot. I realize Ira GAMES 273-1802 STUDYAB ROAD IN AUSTRALIA KRISTI QUINN: cute, but it will coat a bundle to Air Force GA's, X1502 Info on semester, year, graduate, Happy Birthday Ill 
Contact Joe Guddeml 
replaoe so PLEASE rerum If you summer, and internship programs in Have a great day and a SPOT-less have It and no questions wiN be Need GA'a lor Pitt., Perth, Townsville,Sydney,and yearll We're going to have BIG 
@ 283-3936 
ukedll If you hav. the plata or -USC TROJANS-USC, and Tenn. Melbourne. Programs start at FUN this weekend II 
or Gil Gomez 
Info, call 4911 . Generous reward -need SIX g.a.'s -Jay x1578 $3520. Call 1-8()().878-3696. Luv, offered. CALL ROB at x1845 Phoenix La Rue 
@ 239-7471 


Scoreboard
page 14 Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE STANDINGS MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS 
AHTimes EDT AU Times EDT AMERICAN CONFERENCE AMERICAN LEAGUE East East Division 
w L T Pa PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv w L 
Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away Buffalo 4 0 0 1.000 127 95 2-0-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 1-0-0 2-0-0 Toronto 83 67 .553 4-6 Wont 42-33 41-34 Miami 2 2 0 .500 77 71 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 Boston 81 68 .544 1112 z-7-3 Lost t 42-33 39-35 N England 2 2 0 .500 46 67 t-1-0 t-1-0 2-2-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 Detroit 75 73 .507 7 Z-3-7 Lost6 44-29 31--44 NY Jets 1 3 0 .250 62 75 t-1-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 Milwaukee 72 75 .490 9112 z-7-3 Won3 38-34 34--41 
lndnplls 0 4 0 .000 37 82 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 0-1-0 0-2-0 N-YO!k 63 85 .426 19 3-7 Wont 35--40 28--45 Central Baltimore 62 87 .416 20112 4-6 Lost2 30-45 32-42 Houston 3 1 0 .750 114 55 2-0-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 Cleveland 51 96 .347 30112 z-7-3 27--47
Won2 24--49 Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 58 52 t-1-0 1-1-0 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-0-0 West Division Pttsburgh 2 2 0 .500 94 101 2-0-0 0-2-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 w L Pa 00 LID Streak Home Away 
Clncnnatl 0 4 0 .000 61 123 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 0-1-0 0-2-0 Minnesota 90 60 .600 5-5 Won3 49-27 41-33 W<!IIIP. Chicago 82 68 .547 8 5-5 Lost2 43-31 39-37 Denver 3 1 0 .750 101 59 3-0-0 0-1-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 2-1-0 Oakland 78 71 .523 11112 4-6 Lost 1 43-31 35--40 Kan.Chy 2 2 0 .500 51 50 2-1-0 0-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-0-0 Texas 77 71 .520 12 Z--4~ Lost4 43-31 34--40 LA Raidrs 2 2 0 .500 66 81 2-0-0 0-2-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 1-0-0 Kansas City 76 73 .510 13 112 z-5-5 Wont 35-39 41-34 Seanle 1 3 0 .250 67 76 1-0-0 0-3-0 t-2-0 0-1-0 0-2-0 Seanle 76 73 .510 13 112 6-4 Lost 1 43-32 33-41 San Diego 0 4 0 .000 63 100 0-1-0 0-3-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-1-0 CaiHomla 75 74 .503 14 112 z-8--4 Won2 36-39 39-35 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE NATIONAL LEAGUE East East Division 
w L T Pa PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv w L Pa 00 LID Streak Home Away WashingIn 4 0 0 1.000 146 58 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 x-Pittaburgh 91 59 .607 z-8-2 Won2 47-28 44-31 Phlla 3 1 0 .750 77 43 1-1-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 2-1-0 1-1-0 St. Louis n 72 .517 13 112 4-6 Wont 45-29 32--43 Dallas 2 2 0 .500 74 80 0-2-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 N-York 72 77 .483 18 112 z-5-5 Lost 1 37-39 35-38 NYGiants 2 2 0 .500 59 63 2-1-0 0-1-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 Chicago 71 77 .480 19 2-8 Lost2 42-35 29-42 Phoenix 2 2 0 .500 59 75 0-1-0 2-1-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 1-2-0 Philadelphia 71 79 .473 20 5-5 Lost2 43-34 28-45 Central Montreal es 82 .446 24 z-6-4 Won2 33-35 33-47 Chicago 4 0 0 1.000 70 56 3-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 West Division Detroit 3 1 0 .750 73 98 2-0-0 t-t-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 1-0-0 w L Pa 00 l10 Streak Home Away Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 43 69 1-0-0 t-2-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 0-1-0 Loa Angeles 87 64 .576 z-7-3 Won2 50-25 37-39 
r Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 45 72 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-1-0 t-2-0 t-t-0 Atlanta 85 65 .567 1112 5-5 Lost2 45-30 40-35 Tampa Bay 0 4 0 .000 56 69 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 San Diego n 74 .510 10 z-8--4 Won3 38-38 39-36 
' r I 
i 
W<!JIIP. Cincinnati 71 79 .473 15 112 z-3-7 LO&t 1 38-37 33-42 N-Orlns 4 0 0 1.000 94 41 3-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 San Francisco 69 81 .460 17 112 5-5 LO&t3 40-35 29-46 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 56 61 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 Houston 81 89 .407 25112 4-6 Wont 36-39 25-50 San Fran 2 2 0 .500 89 57 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 x-cllnched division !Hie LA Rams 1 3 0 .250 50 88 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 1-3-0 0-2-0 z-denotes llrst game was a win. Sunday'a Gamea 
N-YOlk Glanta 13, Cleveland 10 
! 
Detroit 33, Indianapolis 24 Mlamlt6, Green Bay 13 
Waahlngton 34, Cincinnati 27 
N-England 24, Houston 20 

, 
Atlanta 21, Loa Angeles Raiders 17 New Orleans 26, M lnnesota 0 
, ~ 
Phlladeptlla 23, Pktaburgh 14 
Denver 27, San Diego 19 

, 
San Francisco 27, Loa Angeles Rams tO 
Hey Notre Da~ne!
Kansaa City 20, Seattle 13 Buffalo 17, Tampa Bay tO

r Dallas 17, Phoenix 9 Monday'a Game
• 
Chicago 19, N-York Jets 13, OT
,~ 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
~ 
Come meet the newest member 
~ WpQMn"a lntKiwll fqptlwll KQrtl 
Pasquertlla West 9, PaaquerHia Eaat 6 Lewis 6, Farley 0 OT Siegfried 6, Knoll 0 OT
~ 
Walsh 14, Badin 8 OT 

of the ND family: 
~ Breen-Phlnlpe 8, 011-CII/Tl)Us 0 Howard v. Lyona, ppd. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASKETBALL National B..katball Aaaoclatlon 
SACRAMENTO KINGS--Traded Antoine Carr, forward, to the San Antonio Spurs for Dwayne Schlntzlus, center, and a second-round pick In the 1994 draft. Continental Basketball Aaaoclatlon 
ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Paul Graham, guard-forwatd. FOOTBALL National Football League 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS--Piaced Kerry Cash, tight end, on Injured reserve. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
BUFFALO SABRES--Assigned Chris Snell, defenseman, to Rochester of the American Hockey
!, League. CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS--Asa.lgned Roch Belley and Ray LeBlanc, goalies; Owen Lessard,t Martin Desjardins, Tracy Egeland, Justin Lafayette, 
Sean Williams, Rob Conn, Craig Woodcroll, 
Shawn Byram, Zac Boyer, Dan Vincelette, Kevin 
St. Jacques, Trevor Dam, Phillip Crowe and Rayroond Edwards, forwards; and Adam BeMett, Mike Dagenais, Mike Speer, Jell Slrkka, Chris Norton, Jim Playfalr and Cam Russell, 

delensemen, to Indianapolis of the International Hockey League. Released Bill Lacouture and Mike Tomlinson, forwards, and Steve Chelioa and Joe 
Coach John MacLeod
Mittelstadt, defensemen. 

EDMONTON OILERS--Assigned Mike Greenlay and Eugeny Belosheiken, goalies; Shjon Podeln, Craig Fisher, Torres Kapusta, Tim Tisdale, Dean Antos, Richard Borgo and David Haas, forwards; and Brad Werenka, Mario Barbe and Jason Soules, defensemen, to Cape Breton of the American Hockey League. Assigned Barry Nieckar and Trevor Converse, forwards, and Doug Greschuk, defenseman, to Winston-Salem of the East Coast Hockey League. Returned Alex 
and the rest of the
Legault, Scott Allison, Joel Blain, Mario Nobill, Roman Mhralek and Mike Power to their junior teams. Released Jason Lafreniere, defenseman. 
MONTREAL CANADIENS--Aaslgned Gilbert Dionne and Patrick Lebeau, lell wings, and Jesse 
1991 -1992 Fighting Irish basketball
Belanger and Paul DIPietro, centers, to Fredericton 
of the American Hockey League. 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Assigned Doug Dadawell, Chad Erickson, Mark Romaine, Corey Schwab, goalies; David Cralevlch, Kevin Dean, Chris Kiene, Petr Kuchyna, Chris Lipuma, Dean 
team 
Maikoc, defenaemen; Steve Cadieux, Jim Dowd, Ben Hankinson, BIN Huard, Kevin Kerr, Scott Lulk, Daryn McBride, Kevin Riehl, Matt Ruchty, Jason 
Simon and Brian Sullivan, lorwards, to Lttlca of the American Hockey League. Returned Martin Brodeur, goalie; Paul Wolanski, defenseman, and 
and have some pizza on us! 
Donavan Hextall and Curt Regnier, forwards, to 
their junior teams. Returned Jarot~lav Madry, defenseman, to Dukla Trencln of the Czechoslovakian League. Released Alex Roberts, defenseman. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS--Assigned Steve Junker, left wing, to Spokane of the Western Hockey League; Todd Sparl<s, lell wing, to Hull of 
Wednesday, September 25, 1991 
the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League; and 
John Johnson, center, to Niagara Falla of the 
9:00pm
Ontario Hockey League. Released John Davis and Frank Lascala, left wings; Derek Clancy, Derek D8C08ty and David Aiken, right wings; Perry Florio, 
Theodore's-LaFortune Student Center 
defenaeman; and Scott Harlow, center. NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Guy Larose, Brian McReynolds, and Rob Zamuner, centers, to 
(Light refreshments will be served -compliments of General Foods)
Blnghamlon of the American Hockey League. COLLEGE NCAA---Named Wayne Wright, Pepperdine athlellc director, to the NCAA Council. DREXEL~ Bruce Bronsdon men's swimming coach. MANHATTAN-Named Chris Quinn men's goH coach. PEPPERDINE-Named Suzy Favor-Hamlhon volunteer aaalatant cross-country coach. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Jets blow a lead and Bears win 19-13 

CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago Bears are either touched by destiny or the New York Jets are plagued by disaster. 
Make it a little of each. 
The Bears remained unbeaten Monday night and gave coach Mike Ditka his tOOth win by twice coming back from almost certain defeat to beat the Jets 19-13 on Jim Harbaugh's 6­inch plunge with 18 seconds left in overtime. 
It came after a 23-yard TO pass to Cap Boso had been overruled by replay official Bill Fette and the ball set back out­side the goal line even as both teams and fans left Soldier Field. 
"We may be the luckiest team in the world," Ditka said. "It may be luck, it may be divine intervention. It's something ... I don't know what. We got this one on luck. We'll take another one on skill." 
Luck isn't the word for it. 
It was a game the Bears tied on a 6-yard pass from Harbaugh to Neal Anderson on the final play of regulation after Steve McMichael stole the ball from Blair Thomas with 1:54 left at the New York-36. That came after the' Jets, leading 13­6, had stopped Harbaugh at the 1-yard line on fourth down with 3:32left. 

Then the Bears watched as 40-year-old Pat Leahy, one of the NFL's best kickers of the past two decades, missed a 28­yard field goal on first down with 3:50 left in the extra pe­riod. Leahy, who missed a 37­yarder earlier in the game, had missed only seven of his last 105 inside the 40 entering Monday night's game. 
Harbaugh completed 28 of 42 passes for 303 yards, career highs in attempts, completions and yards. He drove the Bears 80 yards in 10 plays for the winning score in a surreal at­mosphere rivaled only by the 1989 playoff game in which the Bears beat the Eagles in fog that obscured the field from almost everyone, including the players. 
"Yes, we got some breaks with the missed kick," said Ditka, whose team's four wins are by a total of 14 points. "But I've been on both sides of games like this. It's much nicer to fmd a way to win than a way to lose." 
For the Jets, who fell to 1-3, it was the second heartbreaking loss to an unbeaten team. Last week, they fell 23-20 to Buffalo after leading 20-16. 
But this was worse. Much 
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMP~ ASI< FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 
yo
u put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid arc its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial hftalth? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a fmancial services company really is, gave 
.. 
TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER-PERFECT. 
TIAA received A+ from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptional financial strength, superior inveshnent pertormance, and low expenses. With its guaranteed rate of return and opportunit;y for dividends, TIAA is one ofless than ten companies, out of 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M 
2,200 nationwide, that received these 
highest marks. 
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversi­fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save lor the future. 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
i-~ENDNOWFORAFREE---~~r:~ 

RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, ;;'! 
induldhing a .._\fJ(f't~d R,·porl on TIAA investments. £_\. 
Mai t is <·oupon to: TIAA-CREF. Dept. QC. , 
730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call I 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016. 
Nam( ( Pll"asl' print) 
l'it.v 
IIM/tlulitlfl (Full naml") 
Tit/,­
1'/tl/I·('Rf:FP,rlt,·tpmlf 

G)<., ON.• 
CN 

worse. 
"I'm at a loss for words," said Jeff Lageman, whose sack of Harbaugh just before the tying TO pass was one of many points where the Jets seemed to have won. ''I'm so frustrated right now I don't know what to feel." 
"We're all stunned," said safety Lonnie Young, who was all over the field during regula­tion. 'This one will be hard to come back from." 
The Jets led 13-3 entering the final period, a lead cut to 13-6 by Kevin Butler's 44-yard field goal 2:09 into the period. 
Then Brian Washington's stop of Harbaugh at the goal line kept the Bears away and Thomas, who gained 125 yards in 27 carries, moved the ball out to the 36 as the Bears used their final timeouts. But then came McMichael's strip and that final drive -set back by Lageman's sack and Washington's stop of a Harbaugh scramble at the 6. 
But the Bears lined up, got off the final fourth-down play and Anderson caught it in the left front of the end zone to make it 13-12. Butler added the extra point to force overtime. 
The victory left Chicago as one of four unbeaten. NFL teams, along with New Orleans, Washington and Buffalo, where the Bears will play next Sunday. The victory also increased Chicago's record in September under Dltka to 23-2. 
The Jets had taken their lead on field goals of 19 and 34 yards by Leahy and a 1-yard TO run by Brad Baxter to cap a 60­yard drive with 3:30 left in the third period. 
Butler's field goal at 2:09 of the final quarter, set up by a 28-yard pass interference call on James Hasty, cut it to 13-6. 
The Bears never got close to the Jets' end zone In the first three periods as Young, the free safety, roamed all over the field, making tackles and batting down passes. 
Rec 
continued from page 20 
Dick Rosenthal used in chang­ing the title non-revenue sports to Olympic sports-it has a more positive connotation." 
As the number of activities Rec Sports offers has grown, so has the support staff the de­partment employs to oversee them. Along with Kelly and Derengoski-who is in charge of recreational services-Rich O'Leary runs the intramural and club sports divisions, an­other 22 graduate and under­graduate students supervise the issue room and office, and countless students pick up a few bucks as officials or in­structors. 
All this activity has come during a time when most uni­versities are curtailing the growth of their intramural programs for lack of funding. Kelly points out, however, that that has never been a problem at Notre Dame. 
"We have always had great support from the administra­tion to allow us to grow," he said. 
After 23 years at the helm, one wonders how Kelly keeps up his enthusiasm. Or why a man with his experience has not left for greener pastures long before? For him, the an­swer is simple. 
"It still excites me to walk into this building at night and see the activities going on," he related. "We are part of the ed­ucational process, a real part." 
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
Sanders says he may rejoin Braves for end 
SUWANEE, Ga. (AP) -Ifthe Atlanta Braves ask, Deion Sanders said he -not the Falcons -will decide if the outfielder-cornerback joins the fmal days of the NL West pennant race. 
"It's only speculative," Braves general manager John Schuerholz said Monday night. "We may pursue Deion Sanders. We may not. We haven't done anything yet." 
Sanders, who left the Braves for the Falcons on July 31, said there was a 90 percent chance he would return to the Braves for the end of the season, but that he hasn't been asked yet. 
"If they come to me and ask me to do so, it's pretty much done," Sanders said. He added he would do "anything it takes" to help the Braves in their quest for the NL West title. 
Barry Axelrod, Sanders' baseball agent, conrrrmed that he had not yet been asked about having Sanders return to the Braves this season. 
Sanders hit .193 with four home runs and 13 RBls this year under a contract that called for him to play through July 31. He's under a full-sea­son contract with the Falcons, where he is a vital part of the secondary and a return specialist. Sanders had a key play in Sunday's 21-17 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders when he forced a fumble that was returned for a touchdown. 
The Falcons have a home game on Sunday with the New 
Spurs trade Schintzius to Kings for Carr 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -The San Antonio Spurs traded cen­ter Dwayne Schintzius and a 1994 second-round draft pick to the Sacramento Kings on Monday for forward Antoine Carr. 
The 6-foot-8 Carr, 30, is a seven-year NBA veteran from 
Wichita State who led the Kings in scoring last year with a ca-reer-best 20.1 points per game. 
~thel~c~~ir!~:J~:r.;.~. ~~~J 
of operations. "For a man his 1 size, he has shown that he can shoot from outside and he can play either forward position." 
Bass said Carr will be an of­fensive threat for the Spurs and that he has proven in the past year-and-a-half he is an emerging scorer in the league. 
The 7-2 Schintzius, 22, aver­aged 3.8 points and 2.9 re­bounds in 9.4 minutes per game in his rookie season last year as a backup to Spurs starting center David Robinson. He was a 1988 Olympic team finalist from the University of Florida. 
Schintzius was the Spurs' first-round draft pick and the 24th selection overall in 1990. 
Spurs coach Larry Brown, who at times criticized Schintzius' work habits, said the trade will be beneficial for both clubs. 
"We need to be as competitive as possible this season and in Sacramento Dwayne will have the time he needs to fully develop his potential," Brown said. 
Jerry Reynolds, Kings direc­tor of player personnel, said giving up Carr was difficult, but that the Kings have "an abun­dance of forwards.' 
Orleans Saints, but will be off the following week. 
During that week the Braves will close their season with three games at Cincinnati and three at home against Houston as they try to catch Los Angeles. The Dodgers had a 1 1/2-game lead Monday, with two weeks to play. 
Falcons coach Jerry Glanville was asked at his weekly news conference about the possibility of loaning out Sanders. 
"I would not allow that un­less they would let me be the third base coach," Glanville quipped. 
Asked if he wasn't taking the possibility seriously, Glanville said, "No, but why should I? No one's asked me anything." 
Asked if a request came to him, he said, "I wouldn't play the 'if games." 
Sanders says such a decision is his to make. 
"I don't think the Falcons can hold a man back from what he wants to do," he said. "They really can't do that. They have no power over that. All they can do is lay a rme on me, which we're used to that anyway. So, I'm going to have to do what I have to do." 
After leaving the Braves at the end of July, Sanders took a couple of extra days off 
Rams stick with Everett despite problems 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Jim Everett seemed on the verge of joining an elite group that in­cluded Joe Montana, John Elway and Dan Marino, the NFL's finest passers. 
But that was two seasons ago. 
Not only has Everett failed to break into that select circle, this season he's been slipping back beyond mediocrity. 
Everett, who led the NFL in touchdown passes from 1988 to 1990 with 83, has the dubious distinction this year of being the only starting quarterback in the league who hasn't thrown a scoring pass. 
His rating has slipped to 57.9, near the bottom of the league. He has completed 55 of 103 passes for 663 yards, but has been intercepted four times as the Rams have gotten off to a 1­3 start and rank next-to-last in the league in passing. 
Everett seemed to be living up to his early promise as passer when he threw for 4,310 yards in 1989 and led the Rams into the NFC championship game at San Francisco. But he had a poor game -completing 16 of 36 passes for 141 yards with three interceptions -as the Rams lost 30-3 to the 49ers. 
Late in that game, Everett's forgettable day was punctuated when he ducked to the ground to avoid the 49ers' rush. Only there were no 49ers within 4 or 5 yards of him. 
Although an islolated incident in a game almost two years ago, that incident and that loss tions, and those of the Rams, have continued into 1991. 
Their poor start, cannot, of course, be laid solely on Everett's shoulders. The Rams have had a staggering run of injuries, especially in the offen­sive line, and have been unable to balance their offense with a running threat. 
Everett has not, however, been able to complete passes at critical times, provide any big plays to give his team offensive spark. 
In a 24-7 loss to New Orleans on Sept. 15, Everett completed just six of 17 throws for 71 yards. The Rams were 0-for-10 in converting third-down situa­tions in that game. 
Last Sunday against San Francisco, with the Rams down 13-10 in the second half, Everett threw an interception from the 49ers' 16-yard line, costing Los Angeles a chance to go ahead in what turned out to be a 27-10 loss. 
Also during the game, the Rams lost their leading deep threat, Flipper Anderson, to a back injury, and also lost still another offensive lineman, Bern Brostek, to a sprained ankle. 
"I don't think there's much lower to go," Everett said afterward. "This team has been through quite a bit. We're going to need a lot of intestinal fortitude to come back and put everything together." 
Rams coach John Robinson said he thought his quarterback showed signs of regaining his old form. Everett was 17-of-35 for 219 yards against the 49ers, with one interception. 
"I thought Jim played better," Robinson said Monday. "He's still not in sync; he missed Flipper down the sideline on a pass he's completed in years before, and he missed Aaron (Cox) once when he was open. But I feel Jim did make progress." 
Everett also showed determi­nation. missing just one series after his left shoulder -he's right-handed -popped out of the socket and back in again when he jammed it in a collision with a teammate. 
Asked if Everett and he talked about whether the quarterback should go back into the game, Robinson said: "Yes, he wanted to and I thought it was a good idea. I think he's responding great to the pressure he's under now. I think he said to himself that if he's still standing, he's going to be in there." 
Asked what he thought when Everett took a jarring hit later, Robinson smiled and said, "I was scared to death. But he needs to do the things that en­able him to continue to keep his confidence and move forward. 
"He's our quarterback, we think he's a very good quarter­back, and we're all going through a difficult period. The only way to get out of that is to fight your way out." 

seem in retrospect to have sig­Falcons. He was fined 
before reporting to the 
naled the beginning of his slide, $25,000 for missing not only 
and that of the Rams. those days, but also all the 
While Everett had his good 
GYROS 
moments in 1990, the Rams
days of training camp before 
~ 

finished 5-11 and failed to
that. 

Grand Opening Specials are:
make the playoffs. His frustra-
Gyro Sandwich ...........................................•.. $2. 75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger ....•.....................•.. $0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 
What is an Urban Plunge??? 
1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner ..........•.•........ $3.49 
Rib Tip Dinner ........•.......•...•..•.•..........•.•....... $4. 75 
Come to an information meeting: 
21 Shrimp Dinner •........••...•........•..•..••••..•..... $3. 79 (all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw 
7:00 -7:30 pm and garlic bread) 
Show Student ID and get a free 16 oz. drink with your
September 25th (Wed.) 
'purchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t 
Center for Social Concerns 
: : : : : : : : : : N:ewiocationis now open: : : : : : : : : : : 
(48 hour inner city experience over Christmas 
~' P~x~e: W~Y. ~~J1li, ~(»s~~~4 f'J:e~t:t~ ~9~~~ay ~f!n:27~-Q~ 
Break) 
· · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru ........ . 
~ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : H:oW.s: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Bob Bass, Spurs vice president ~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!IJ!:~M~o~:n~~;TJr~:u~r~s~:t~J~:()O-~.~~~l~;oo;·~:~~~ri~-S~.a~:t~;t~l~:QO=-~:1~:2~::00;-~:i!!!s~.u~:n~:t~J~:oo-~.
~-1~.o~;oo~-~: 

ND COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
MARKETING AND PUBLICITY DIVISION 
FIRST MEETING OF THE YEAR 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 7:00P.M. MONTGOMERY THEATER (in LaFortune) 
Questions? CaiJ Amy at 287-2654 
1'..-.«-y_r_r.i .. ......i., • i' .. ~ i.~.~ ~.i. i_W 3-; ,_;_;. • oi.; ~ _:.;. ~, i-.-i.,;..r.~ ;,·;, ~ .: .; " ...
t' 


l 
1
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer 
page 17 

SPORlS BRIEFS 
Bucs bench Testaverde, 
•For anyone Interested In trying out for •Bookstore Basketball warm-up tourney: the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts sign-ups for the 5 on 5 tourney are from 3 to 5 
will start Chris Chandler 




will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 in the pit of the p.m. until Wednesday, September 25 in the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at Junior Class Office. Each team must consist of 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have at least 3 juniors. $5 per team. any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 
Testaverde 
quarterback ­
•Meet new coach John Macleod and the 
week. Youth Hockey League Is looking for students pizza on Wednesday, September 25 at 9:00p.m. who would like to help coach young hockey at Theodore's. 
•Ice hockey coaches are needed. The Irish 1991 Irish basketball team and have some 
swered players form the South Bend area. All those Interested should contact Ja·ckie McKew at 256-•WVFI Sportstalk welcomes Dean Lytle 
Richard Williamson. 6839, or write the league office at P.O. Box 490, to the show tonight. Tune in from 8 to 9 p.m. or Notre Dame, IN 46556. call 239-6400 with your insights. 
•Women's Ice Hockey: Anyone with or •The first lnterhall cross-country meet without hockey experience who can skate and will be Wednesday, Spetember 25 at 4:45. is interested in playing should contact Molly at Check-in at the golf course at 4:30. Contact 283-2685. your captains with any further questions. 
started 0-4. 
•Water 
polo team members must have •The Notre Dame Rugby team (3-0) beat their Insurance forms in by Wednesday, Bowling Green on Saturday, 33-10. The Irish September 25. Everyone must have this done take on the Chicago Griffms this Saturday. before we can go to the Dayton Tournament on Friday, September 27. •Irish Insanity will meet tonight at 7:30 

p.m. a t the women's volleyball game in the 

•Free 
body fat testing will be provided J.A.C.C. arena. We will also go as a group to the from 6-8 p.m. Participants must wear shorts men's soccer game vs. Indiana Thursday night. 


we made and t-shlrts in order to participate. Please enter The athletic department is providing shuttle the JACC through gate 2. service to the game at school field. 
then 
happy with a loss." 
ND BOXING CLUB 
second-half 
ATTENTION ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS 
added. 

·--TICE FOR THE NOVICE TOURNAMEN 
cially at
IN THE FALL BEGAN MONDAY 
MEET OUTSIDE THE BOXING ROOM 
he had." 
LOCATED JUST INSIDE GATE 3 OF THE JACC, AT 4:00PM 
BRING PEN AND BE READY FOR WORKOUT ANY QUESTIONS CALL TIM PHELAN # 1010 
the team to a victory. 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
management Systems Division 
Pizza Party! Wednesday, Sept 25 at 7:00 PM Morris Inn · Alumni Room 
TAMPA, Fla. {AP) -Chris Chandler will replace Vinny as Tampa Bay's at least for this 
The question that went unan­Monday is where Testaverde stands with coach 
The 1986 Heisman Trophy winner limped off the field with a sprained toe on Sunday and watched Chandler pump life into a listless offense that is one of the reasons the Bucs have 
He conceded that Chandler 
did a good job of moving the 
club during a 17-10 loss to the 
Buffalo Bills, but still found it 
difficult to accept Williamson's 
decision to change starters for 
next Sunday's game at Detroit. 
"If everyone is happy because a good showing against a Super Bowl team, they're wrong," Testaverde said. "You can't be 
Williamson said Chandler earned the start with a strong 
performance against the Bills. The decision was facilitated by Testaverde's turf toe injury, which is not considered serious, the coach 
"You don't want a guy out there who's going to be handi­capped in what he can do, espe­
that position," Williamson said. "And Chandler deserves to start because of the way he played.... What he did was very commendable consid­ering the lack of practice time 
Chandler, who's in his fourth pro season, was obtained from the Indianapolis Colts last year for the Bucs' 1992 first-round draft pick. He started three games in 1990, including one when Testaverde was injured, but has not been able to lead Tampa Bay is 16-30 in games 

Testaverde has started in the 
last four seasons. The team is 
0-6 when he hasn't started, but 
Chandler is confident he can 
change the pattern. 
He has waited patiently for 
another chance to be No. 1, and 
is eager to show what he can 
do. 
"I try to prepare every week 
like I'm the starter," said 
Chandler, who was 10-6 in two 
seasons as a starter at 
Indianapolis. "This week it'll be 
a little easier, a lot more realis­
Uc. When you know you're 
starting, you're n{>t out there 
fooling yourself." . 
This is considered a make-or­break year for Testaverde, whose inconsistency cost him the starting job for two games last year and sparked debate over whether he will ever de­velop into the franchise player the Bucs envisioned when he was the first pick in the 1987 draft. 
He has yet to throw for more touchdowns than interceptions in a season and is off to another slow start with 51 completions in 91 attempts for 684 yards, two TDs and two interceptions. He has been sacked 16 times and has a quarterback rating of 73.6-15th in the NFL. 
The decision to bench him last year affected Testaverde's confidence and damaged his relationship with former: coach Ray Perkins, who was fired with three games len in the season. 
Williamson said he hasn't given up on Testaverde. He em­phasized that the fifth-year pro's foot is not healthy and that he was only announcing that Chandler will start against the Lions. 
"Anything beyond that and you're asking about a scenario that doesn't exist," Williamson said. 
Testaverde wasn't happy with the explanation he was given for losing the job to Chandler. 
"To me, if I'm not starting because I'm injured, say that. If I'm not playing because I'm not getting the job done, tell me that," he said. "They're saying it's both." 
Chandler directed two long scoring drives against Buffalo, and the Bucs were on the Bills' 8-yard line when time expired. He completed 15 of 27 passes for 137 yards and was Inter­cepted once -a mistake the Bills converted into a field goal. 
"There was a difference," wide receiver Bruce Hill said. "You can't deny Chris was ef­fective." 
A third-down efficiency rate of 22 percent killed the Bucs in the first three gaines. The of­fense was 10-of-19 against the injury-riddled Buffalo defense, including 7-of-9 under Chandler in the second half. 
"He made some calls and found the right people," Williamson said. "There were some wasted opportunities early in the game. In the second half, the offense went out there and made some things hap­pen." 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
Women's soccer tries to continue 5-game streak 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team will put its un­beaten streak of five games on the line today when they take on Division II Siena Heights at 
4:00 p.m. on Alumni Field. 

The Irish (3-0-2) will be fac­ing a Saints squad that lost seven starters from last year's team, including honorable mention all-American Shelly VanderVeen. 
The big guns for Siena Heights are senior forward Dawn Huggins, who finished last season with 14 goals and six assists for 34 points, and junior forward Deb Baierl, who tallied 'to goals and two assist last year. 
Junior Lori Lackey will once again be minding the net for the Saints, looking to improve on last year's 1.19 goals-al­lowed average. 
"Siena Heights is a physical team," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "This is a midweek which is always tough to play. We have some injuries at this point in the season we are go­ing to have to work around." 
Expos lose 10-1, Cubs beat the Phillies 
ST. LOUIS (AP) ­Todd Zejle  Chicago moved two games  eighth. Gregg Olson got the  
hit a three-run double to lead ·  ahead of Philadelphia in their  last three outs for his 30th  
St. Louis out of a prolonged  battle for fourth place in the  save.  
scoring slump and Bryn Smith  NL East.  Poole came into the game in  
pitched a three-hitter as the  Maddux (13-10) posted his  the fourth with the bases  
Cardinals beat Montreal 10-1  sixth complete game and sec­ loaded and no outs. He got  
Monday in the first game of a  ond in the last five days,  Tom Brunansky to ground into  
doubleheader.  having defeated the New York  a game-tying double play and  
Ozzie Smith added a two-run  Mets 4-1 last Wednesday. The  remained in control.  
homer, Pedro Guerrero had a  Cubs, after suffering a  The Orioles made it 4-3 in  
two-run double for his frrst ex­ doubleheader loss to Montreal  the bottom of the inning  
tra-base hit since July 4 and  on Sunday, took out their  against Mike Gardiner (9-8)  
Ray Lankford had a two-run  frustrations on Terry  when Leo Gomez doubled and  
single for the Cardinals.  Mullholland (15-12), who  Mike Devereaux singled him  
Entering the game, St. Louis  lasted just two innings.  home.  
had scored only 13 runs in its  
previous six games and was 1­ American League  
-s in that span.  Tigers 2, Indians 1  
Smith (12-8) struck out six  Orioles 4, Red Sox 3  DETROIT -Bill Gullickson  
and walked one for his first  BALTIMORE -The  became the American  
victory since Aug. 21. Dennis  Baltimore Orioles slowed  League's frrst 19-game winner  
Martinez (14-11) allowed only  Boston's drive toward first  as Detroit beat Cleveland,  
three hits in 3 2-3 innings.  place Monday night, beating  breaking a six-game losing  
the Red Sox 4-3 behind rookie  streak. Gullickson (19-9) is the  
Cubs 10, Phlllles 3  reliever Jim Poole.  Tigers' first 19-game winner  
CHICAGO -Luis Salazar hit  The loss, Boston's second  since Jack Morris won 21 in  
a three-run homer during a  straight after four consecutive  1986.  
five-run frrst and Greg Maddux  victories, dropped the Red Sox  Gullickson gave up six hits,  
pitched seven-hit ball over  two games behind Toronto in  walked none, and struck out  
eight innings as the Chicago  the AL East, pending the Blue  four in seven innings. Mike  
Cubs routed the Philadelphia  Jays' night game at California.  Henneman worked two perfect  
Phillies 10-3.  Poole (2-0) retired 14 of the  innings for his 20th save.  
Ryne Sandberg had two sin­ 15 batters he faced after  Eric King (5-11) gave up two  
gles and a double with three  entering the game with the  runs ­one earned ­on eight  
RBis and Mark Grace, saddled  bases loaded in the fourth  hits in 6 1-3 innings for  
in a 16-for-76 slump, had  inning, allowing only a two-out  Cleveland. King walked four  
three of the Cubs' 14 hits as  single to Jody Reed in the  and struck out two.  

Out of the starting gate 
Back in the 80's in Breen-Phillips Hall, Father John Fitzgerald, CSC, would preach about the going-on at the end of the school year. It was kind of an annual thing for him-preaching about leaving the confines of the residence hall, and moving on "out there." 
Now this might seem like an odd thing to be writing about in September, 
but nothing seems closer to me at the moment. (And perhaps also for the Seniors, who no doubt are beginning to experience the "firsts of many lasts," beginning with the ticking of each home football game.) 
f 
f 
Fitz would talk about the notions of "Church", and how residence life might or might not prepare a ,person for the experience of the ch&_:~rch after leaving this place. He'd talk about his listening to the hordes of graduates who struggled with their faith after leaving Notre Dame. They struggled because the intimacy once experienced in the halls was now lost. They wandered in that vast common expanse of normal parish life filled with thousands of families. And maybe they missed the music, and the people that were known, and the common concerns that were prayed about, and the words that were preached. And so on. 
Fitz would say that he believed that college students had within them the power to change the church, wherever they went. He urged them to 
,._ 
lend a hand, become a part of, join with the songs, add to the sense of personal belonging. He urged them not to give up the struggle of achieving some sense of community, even when it became a challenge 
to create it beyond the confines of the University. 
We are faced with a world bent on fostering isolation. One need only hang around lower Notre Dame Avenue to find out how real a nightmare that can be. Even in our own lives, from the Walkman to dinners from one of the frozen food section, we seem to drift further and further from any sense of common experience or oneness, whether it be through entertainment or the simple act of having supper. 
But when we pray together on Sunday evenings, and when we gather to 
remeber students who have recently died, and when our friends rally 
around us after some kind of personal loss, we are presented with a 
great truth· there is love to be found at the table of the Word. and the 
Mass Schedule at Sacred Heart Church: 
Saturday, September 28 5:00pm-Rev. Mark Van Wassenhove, C.S.C. 
Belles win one, face Goshen today at home 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's soccer team tries to extend its unheated streak to six straight games as it hosts Goshen College today at 4:00 p.m. in the first-ever meeting between the two teams. 
The Belles (3-0-2) come into this afternoon's matchup off a 2-2 tie with Saint Joseph's College Sunday afternoon in Rensselaer, Ind. Saint Mary's had two one-goal leads in the contest, only to let Saint Joseph's tie the score each time. 
Junior forward Stacy Winget opened the scoring five minutes into the game for the Belles, and they took a 1-0 lead into halftime. Saint Joseph's evened the match 15 minutes into the first half, and regulation ended with the game tied 1-1. 
Saint Mary's roared out in the first overtime, with sophomore Megan DeBlasio putting the team up 2-1 in the opening minute of the period. However, the hosts salvaged the tie with a goal early in the second over­time session. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY 
.. 
. . . considerations CZ\MPUS 
MINISTRY 
table of the Eucharist. Love, and a challenge -that is, to take the spirit of community so eagerly shared by in a Sunday night liturgy and passit amongst those who do not know of this joy. 
We are just now out of the starting gate, as it were, here at the University. 
A whole year of possibility lies before us. Soon enough, we will come to 
face that last Sunday in May, tangled with the emotions of the last good-byes, and wrapped around the melancholy rendition of "Be Not 
Afraid." Maybe it's better to hold Fitz's words and challenges right in front of us right now. 
We are the church. And we have the ability to bring the lessons of concern, found in a small community like the residence hall, to a wider world. We have the ability to expand people's images and the language of God. We have the experience locked in our minds of what it is like for a whole assembly to be bound together in common song. 
These experiences, I'll wager, are not placed in our skulls merely to look back upon with great fondness ten years from now, at an Alumni Reunion. These experiences push us to an awareness of our own present mission. What we have been given as a gift-the oneness of shared table and the ability to celebrate as community-must likewise be passed on as a gift to another in great need. 
It could be that May is a great time to think about heading out, hitting the open road, leaving the nest, making our own way, whatever it may be called. But there remains the question of how we make our way in the ensuing days and months ahead. And it is just as significant now, out of the starting gate, as it will be at that final springtime liturgy. 
Steven C. Warner Associate Director of Campus Ministry Director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
h-­
1-11 

Sunday, September 29 
10:00 am-Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
11:45 am-Rev. Mark Van Wassenhove, C.S.C. 




·,, 
Tuesday, September 24, 1991 The Observer page 19 
TlEFARSIDE 

l 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
WE\.L, 'N\-\D N'ttDS j~ 

-. 
"Short-sheeted my bed, didn't you, Jenkins? ... You know, I could make your life miserable, too!" 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
I WI'S" 'tiE ll'lE.t> \!'\ ~£ 
Si\DLI-.~05 Of ~0~\~i\. 
IT'S t:A'SIE.R 1\\t.I<E E£.0.\l'SE 
£RJ'5\0~ 0!=\t.l'{ El<I'OSE.S 
1\-\t: ~O~'tS . 
\ 




CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
ACROSS 26 Tned out 43 Life work 
7 p.m. Film, "Cabin in Cotton." Annen berg Auditorium. 
28 Purified 44 Pride of Pindar 
1 Recedes 
Admission. 32 Like a flophouse 45 Supreme Being •
5 New York and of Islam 
Boston 33 Loan follower 9:15 p.m. Film, "Casablanca." Annenberg Auditorium. 
46 Stiff-drink
10 Sooth1ng 34 Uno. due,--Admission.
followersubstance 35 Contest. Greek 
49Matinee­
14 Depend (on) style so Christian or
15 In progress 36 Oceans and Caesarean LECTURES16 Sheltered, as a seas 53 Storm pellets sailor 37 Kmd of camp 55 Obstruction
17 Br1dge feat 38 Kingsley's "--Tuesday
56 Assistant
18 W1th nary a sou 1nWhite" 57 Run away to
20 Tall on many a 39 Toilers in 3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Theoretical Studies of the 
list Ivanhoe's day wed Temperature Dependence of Domain Growth Kinetics," Kristen 21 L1ke some cars 
58 Monster
40 Toutle-Fichthorn, Pennsylvania State Univ. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 22 Halt (everybody) 59 London trolley 23 Actress Black 41 Land and 60 Depressions 
4 p.m. Lecture, "The Persian Gulf War In Ught of Just War 
25 Barne p1rate buildings 61 Garden 
Theory and Western Imperialism," Robert Holmes, University of
Interloper 
Rochester. Auditorium, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies. DOWN 
1 Gaelic 2 Strap 
MENU 
3 Legal authority: 1723-80 4 Prefix for Notre Dame metrical 
19 Period between 30 Wear away 45 Handy sessions 31 Hold back 46 Friendly talk 
5 Made no bid 21 Nobelist in 33 Ancient Chinese 47 Head covering Chicken Fried Steak 
6 Frequently 
Chemistry 1934 36 Like a ghost 48 Radames's Grilled Pollack 
7 Cross 24 Letter abbr. town beloved 
Cheese Enchiladas 
8 Heavy weight 
25 Cuffs 37 Cold Adriatic 49 Privy to 9 Certain ships 
26 Hobo wind 51 Unusual 
10 Sterile 27 Avid 39 Opponents 52 Describing Saint Mary's 11 Tub plant 28 Kitchen mavens 40 Shopping center nonagenarians 12 Albanian coins 42 Mussulman 54 Bullring cry 
29 Salisbury Plain 

Beef Fajitas 
13 Convene monument 43 Shuts 55 Female pig 
Parm. Oven Fried Fish Spanish Rice Deli Bar 
\ I t • ' I t • 4 I • f & t • ' •••• t • ' ••• ' ' ' •••••••• i •••••••• I •••••• ' I •• ' • I ..
• \ \ \ I ~ \ I • • ·, I ~. • I I \ \ I \ I I \ I I I \ \ \ \ \ \ l '• \ ; l \ I • I \ \ I \ • •. ' · 
~.-------------­
~ 
r 
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
Men's soccer defeats MSU, ties Evansville 0-0 
Powerful Hoosier squad is the next test for the Irish 
By JASON KELLY freshman Tony Richardson with "Defense is the most solid 
Sports Writer three apiece. part of our team right now," 
Second-year coach Mike commented sophomore mid­
It was a busy but successful Berticelli was pleased with the fielder Mike Palmer. "'We're weekend for the Notre Dame play of his young team against really confident 'in everybody men's soccer team. The Irish the Spartans. who plays back there." captured a 1-0 victory over "Many teams are going to Michigan State on Friday night come out and try to intimidate Missed opportunities were the before battling perennial pow­us because we play so many story once again for the Irish erhouse Evansville to a 0-0 tie freshmen," he told the South offense, which collected 19 on Sunday afternoon. Bend Tribune. "Tonight our shots on goal, but couldn't con­
Missed opportunities hindered younger guys didn't play like vert against the Evansville de­
the Irish offense once again freshmen." fense. against Michigan State. They didn't play like freshmen Seventeen shots yielded only against Midwestern Collegiate "We were disappointed that one goal for the Irish, but it Conference rival Evansville ei­we didn't score," Palmer said, proved to be enough as the de­ther. The Aces came into "but we were happy with the fense held the Spartans to only Sunday's game at Alumni Field way we controlled the ball in three shots on goal on the way with an 18-game MCC winning the game." 
to its second consecutive streak, dating back to 1989. shutout. The Irish will bring their 2-2­Junior Brendan Dillman net­The Irish defense, however, 1 record into Thursday night's 
ted his second goal of the sea­shut down the Aces and last game against perennial power son on an assist from senior year's national goal-scoring Indiana, before hitting the road captain Kenyon Meyer with just leader, David Weir, ending the for four straight games. The over 12 minutes remaining. two-year-old winning streak. Indiana game, originally sched­Meyer led the Irish with four Freshman goalie Bert Bader uled for Friday, has been moved shots on goal, followed by collected four saves to earn his to South Bend's School Field to sophomore Mike Palmer and third consecutive shutout. accommodate a larger crowd. 
Volleyball team seeks to stay on a roll 
By RENE FERRAN 
losing to the Cardinals. "They are a good defensive
Associate Sports Editor 

team," Brown said. "They're not real big, but they have good 
The Notre Dame volleyball By BRIAN DINEE selected to represent Ireland
all-around players and play
team completes its brief homes­Sports Writer in the Cross Countrytand tonight at 7:30 p.m., host­with a lot of intensity." International, and in July of ing the Illinois State Redbirds. Perhaps no one represents that same year participated in 
The Irish (6-1) currently enjoy The Redbirds are led by se­the name "Irish" better than the school-age International
nior outside hitter Lisa Rolf
a five-match win streak, includ­Track and Field meet.
Eva Flood, a native of Dublin, 
(200 kills, 115 digs, 15 service
ing a 15-10, 15-5, 15-9 thrash­Ireland. During the 1990 track and
aces), a player Brown described 
ing of an injury-decimated Flood, only a freshman, has field season she also achieved 
as "typical of the (Illinois State) 
Boston College squad on made an instant impact on a record time for Leinster 
team-a smaller player, but has
Sunday. Notre Dame has not the Notre Dame women's schools of 10:20 in the 3000
good ball-control skills, hustles, 
lost in over two weeks, but after meters.
Janelle Karlan cross country team. "In terms
is quick."

tonight's match, they will be of talent, she is one of the Making the adjustment to hard-pressed to maintain that the United States and big­
"(But) probably the most im­most talented runners the
Notre Dame could face the
streak. 

portant thing for us was to get mens' or womens' teams have time NCAA athletics has not 
Notre Dame beads out for loss of sophomore setter Janelle been easy for Flood. 
everybody some playing experi­ever had," said head cross
Karlan for tonight's match.
five straight on the road in the ence. That is something that country coach Tim Connelly. "Eva is in the process of a 
next two weeks, facing teams Karlan has been ill all weekend, big adjustment in terms of
will pay off for us down the In the first meet· at 
such as DePaul (9-2), 11th­and Brown will make a decision
road sometime." Georgetown, Flood recorded a lifestyle, academics, and our 
ranked New Mexico (4-3) and during the day whether she will training schedule," Coach
Tonight, though, Notre Dame time of 18:50, good enough
top-ranked Stanford (7-0). play. If not, the Irish will be
must concentrate on Illinois for a second-place finish in Connelly said. "She has
without one of their key
According to Irish coach Debbie 
State (7-6). The Redbirds come the five-kilometer race. shown grea1 potential, and we Brown, Sunday's win over the into tonight's match having won players. Amazingly enough, it marked expect really good things
Eagles was important in several only two of its last seven the first time she had ever from her in the years to
"If she can't play, we're defi­
respects in preparing for the come."
contests, including a four-game been timed in an official race.
nitely going to be limited in
tough road ahead. victory over Loyola last "In Ireland we run cross "I'm still getting used to 
"We made some changes of­some of the things we can do," many things here," Flood
Saturday. country purely for the place,
Brown said. "That's the one
fensively-putting in a couple and not for timesr" Flood ex­said. "For one thing, I have to
position where we don't really
new formations and adding a So far, the two teams have plained. get used to typing papers-wefew plays-that will be benefi­have someone to replace her. Flood enjoyed tremendous handwrite all our
played two common opponents: 
Our backups (seniors Jennie
cial in the long run," Brown 
Purdue and Louisville. The Irish success in her native assignments in Ireland!" said. "They give us a bit more knocked off both, while Illinois Bruening and Katie Kavanaugh) homeland, running for a club As far as her running goes, 
do a good job in practice, but
flexibility. I was glad to have State split its two games, de­in the local town. the biggest adjustment for 
had this match to try them out they don't have match
feating the Boilermakers and In April of 1990 she was see FLOOD I page 13
experience at that position."
in. 


The Clleerver I Art:JrfM ~ ND goalie Bert Bader kicks away a ball in Sunday's tie with Evansville. 
Frosh runner gives NO a true Irishwoman and boost 
No more NVA as RecSports moves into the future 
By RENE FERRAN 
Rock for any organized activi­More importantly, the ACC weight training and racquetball, Associate Sports Editor ties such as racquetball or bas­opened in 1968, and Interhall setting the stage for the recent ketball. Athletics was never to be the name change. 
Editor's Note: This is the first "Also, our charge back then same. "When I got here in 1983, I in a two-part series concerning was strictly undergraduate. We "It allowed for so many more found that the program was the Rec Sports Program. did not offer any programs for activities, with broader pro­going to be bigger-and already 
Non-Varsity Athletics is no graduate students, or for faculty gramming and upscaled facili­was-than the name," said
Rec Sports are the students,"
more. and staff members." ties," Kelly said. "It was around Assistant Director Sally
Kelly said. "We have an active
Well, it's still there, but it bas At that time, the department that time that we decided that Derengoski. "Originally, the
student body, one that would 
a new name: Rec Sports. And was called Interhall Athletics, Interhall Athletics was no name meant we covered what
much rather participate than sit 
along with the name change, but the club sports were also longer an appropriate name. the varsity program didn't, and
idly by."

there's some confusion. monitored by the office. Well, We were still competitive, while NVA served us well, as we
The history of the interhall
"The first time Brenda (the sort of. though, and we were part of the developed and added the recre­
program can be traced back to
office secretary) answered the "They were semi-au-athletic department, so hence ational services dimension, we
the earliest days of the univer­
phone, 'Rec Sports,' the person tonomous," Kelly explained. the name Non-Varsity Athletics came to realize that we were
sity. A trophy dated from the
hung up, probably thinking he "There was very little financial (NVA)." more than the name implied."
early 1900's sits in Kelly's office 
got a wrong number," laughed support for the clubs. Nor did Since then, expansion has Another factor in the name 
as a reminder of the origins of
Rec Sports Director Tom Kelly. we do anything in terms of su­been steady. Many of the now­change was the word "non" at
what has evolved into one of the 
But Rec Sports is a serious pervision or procedure." varsity women's sports (soccer, the beginning of the title. 
largest departments on. campus.
business on this campus. Over Things began to change wheri track, golD, as well as men's "The first word bothered
"When I came here (in 1968}, 
80 percent of all students par­Kelly took over, however. He sports such as lacrosse, started some people," Kelly said. "Some 
there was only the one director
ticipate in one of the hundreds brought the club sports more out as part of NVA. As well, the people felt that it meant we
and three student assistants,"
of Rec Sports-sponsored activi­under the direction of his de­fitness craze that swept the weren't as legitimate as varsity
Kelly said. "The old fieldhouse
ties ranging from interhall partment, and expanded its of­nation swept the Notre Dame athletics. It was the same rea­
was still in existence, and it had 
football to rugby to aerobics. ferings to graduate students, campus, and NVA began offer­soning that (Athletic Director)
only one basketball court. We
"The most important aspect to faculty, and in 1972, women. ing such activities as aerobics, 
see REC I page 15

were not allowed to use the 




