--, 


~Wf1~JL~~Itit 

•Qe4a 
---!!f--­
18•2·1992 
SfSQUICENUNNIAl 
Saint Mary's College 

VOL. XXIV NO. 17 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Professor: Thomas should be confirmed 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
A number of key factors indi­cate that Supreme Court nomi­nee Clarence Thomas should be confirmed by the Senate in the coming weeks, according to Law School Professor Douglas Kmiec. 
Thomas must first gain the approval of the Senate Judi­ciary Committee, before which he is testifying. The committee attempts to gain information about the nominee's qualifica­tions and background during this two-week hearing. 

Thomas has taken the ap­proach of saying as little as possible about cases that he might face if he is confirmed, according to Kmiec, a professor of constitutional and property law and former assistant attorney general of the United States. 
Thomas has continually reit­erated that to render opinions without the specific circum­stances of each case could put 
• Confirmation news I page 4 
him in an awkward position. 

This lack of substantive tes­timony during the hearings has led several on the Senate Judi­ciary Committee to say that Thomas is dodging the issues. Kmiec, however, refutes this claim. 
"Institutionally, judges ought not to be publicly commenting about the facts and circum­stances of likely cases," said Kmiec. "No one would want their case pre-judged." 
Others on the committee have attacked Thomas for abandon­ing opinions that he wrote and spoke about in the past. Thomas has hurdled this ob­stacle, as well, by adopting the stance that "that was then, and this is now," according to Kmiec. 
Thomas has emphasized that those decisions were written when he was a policy maker and an administrator; now he's 
see THOMAS I page 4 

Sight-seeing The Observer/Elisa Klostem'lan 
Sacred Heart Church is one of the many points of interest for visitors to the University, like these women on Monday. 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1991 
Opposition leader arrested 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) -An opposition leader in the repub­lic of Georgia was arrested Monday, hours after thousands of protesters mobbed the capi­tal in the fiercest confrontation yet over President Zviad Gam­sakhurdia. 
Georgy Chanturia, leader of the National Democratic Party, was arrested with an aide, Irina Darishvili, at Tbilisi's air­port· Monday evening, accord­ing to Russian television and the independent news agency Express Khronika said. 
A Soviet airliner carrying Chanturia from Tbilisi to Moscow was 15 minutes into its flight when, on orders of Gam­sakhurdia, the plane turned around and returned to Tbilisi, where Chanturia was arrested, said Tamara Kalugina, a re­porter for the news agency. 
Chanturia was Gamsakhur­dia's leading opponent in presi­dential elections last May that 
see GEORGIA! page 4 


Parisi talks about nature of memorv at SMC lecture 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Thomas Parisi, chairman of the Saint Mary's psychology department, said Monday that a student should "select a major in terms of interest, and not in terms of a potential career." 
"'Many key events in my life have happened because I didn't plan for them," said Parisi. 
Parisi summed ·up the life of the mind as a system of bridges that connect one segment of our life to another in his lecture, which opened the Life of the Mind Lecture Series at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
..The life of the mind is not restricted to the classroom," said Parisi, "an exit from one place (in your life), is an en­trance to another." 
Parisi's address focused on the sharing of memories from his childhood, using his colle­giate career to explain the evo­lution of the life of his mind. 
In his lecture, Parisi said that "memory is not only and not even mostly memory," but a type of storytelling. Like all life stories, he said, they are "ambiguous and chaotic," but when told as "narratives, they become clear and serene." He added that, "The storyteller now sees an end to the action and makes it more structured in that context." 
One influence on Parisi's life and intellectual development were the conversations that took place at Sunday diners. In one anecdote, he said that in the fall of 1963, he deduced that because Robert Kennedy was on a campaign to stop the mafia, that "JFK and RFK are out to get Italians," a view which caused him some prob­lems when he shared them with his seventh-grade class. 
Another early childhood memory that he shared was a 

University Task Force researches possibility of no-smoking campus 
By MARK CAWLEY 
News Writer 
The possibility of a smoke-free campus is being investigated by the Smoking Task Force, a committee established last year to create a policy on smoking at Notre Dame. 
..Our purpose is to set a writ­ten policy on where you can and cannot smoke at Notre Dame," said Melissa Mong, an ND junior and Task Force member. 
"What we're doing is deciding the University's policy and making the rules," she added. 
The Task Force, composed of students, faculty, and staff, has determined its goal to be "the creation of a healthier envi­ronment on campus," according to Mong. 
"In my opinion, the ultimate goal is a smoke-free campus, but that's not realistic right now, so we have to ease into it," she said. 
In the pursuit of that goal, the Task Force has been con­sidering three smoking policy options for residence halls. The creation of completely smoke­free dormitories is the first op­tion, but Mong admits that the Task Force has anticipated student opposition to this policy. 
The establishment of smoke­free 24-hour lounges in dorms or permitting smoking only in private rooms are the other two options under review, she said. 
The Task Force is awaiting the results of an informal poll of students conducted by the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) this week to clarify student opinions toward smoking on campus. 
At last week's HPC meeting, an unofficial vote was taken on the issue of smoking in dormi­tories and, "at least 75 percent of them were in favor of smoke-
free dorms," according to 
Mong. 
In a lone attempt to stop smoking in residence halls, the Sorin Hall Council initiated a referendum last year on the is­sue of creating a smoke-free dorm. On the referendum, "over 70 percent [of Sorin Hall resi­dents] stated a preference for no smoking," according to Fa­ther Stephen Newton, rector of Sorin Hall. 
, 
The new policy, which took effect this semester, restricts smoking to one half of Sorin 's front porch where, "it is reluc­tantly tolerated," said Newton. 
Newton said he feels other residence halls should. follow Sorin's lead in the interim of a University policy on smoking.. 
"We know too much about the dangers of smoking to simply roll over and let others impose second hand smoke upon us." 

vacation he took when he was five years old...It is only a glimmer of a memory, probably because it was retold so many times and not from actual memory." The trip took him to South Bend, Indiana, specifi­cally Notre Dame. · 
Parisi, who at the time was living in the New York area, said, "It was a foreign place then, not common as it is to me now. Now the gold dome has replaced the Brooklyn Bridge, and I am saddened by it." 
These memories are viewed by Parisi as important bridges in the life of the mind. Through these events, he said, one devel-ops intellectually and crosses over bridges in life...The life of the Mind is not solitary, but communal," stated Parisi, "it is not always intellectual, and there are no answers." 

"The Life of the mind centers around kitchen tables ... read­ing literature ... and walking in the woods," he concluded, "It really is a communion, don't miss it!" 
Funded by the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE), the Life of the Mind lecture series allows · select faculty members to share brief autobiographies with stu­dents and colleagues. 
• ". J 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Magazines portray the "fearful" man 
Mademoiselle, last------­
week's Chicago Tribune magazine, and every other magazine I pick up are seriously damaging my image of men. 
Men, what do you think of a title like "Guy Anxiety: His 8 Greatest Love 


Fears"?  Gil  Schwartz,  Anna Marte Tabor  
among many other male  SMC Accent Editor  
writers,  decided  to  

enlighten us clueless women with the answers to questions regarding puzzling masculine behavior. · 
Are you afraid of eating with silverware, watching anything other than NFL games, being neat, meeting your girlfriend's friends, having meaningful conversation, changing, not changing, and being happy? In short, are you an indecisive, thoughtless wimp? 
Schwartz, who purports to he an expert on the male psyche, seems to think that men are incapable of anything more that one night of drunken bliss and an "I'll call you in the morning." Puh-leeze. 
Probably the most revolting message of "Guy Anxiety" is the implication that all women go out with chokers and two-foot long leashes in their back pockets. I wonder if it ever occurred to Schwartz that women go out to have fun, too, that the words '"I do" are not on the tips of their tongues. 
The reason I'm so disappointed in articles that put men in a cold-blooded, totally inde­pendent light is because I'm a die-hard ro­mantic. It began when I followed Kermit and Miss Piggy the way people get involved with soaps. 
Since first grade I've come to appreciate the rmer romances. At the same time I've learned not to expect a Palamon and Arcite episode from the Knight's Tale, where two men fight over the love of a woman in a window that neither of them have met. 
I haven't evidenced m~ch chivalry at Notre Dame in the 20th century. Every year before the first home game, freshmen woo the ladies and hope something will come of their efforts. The goal is to get Rapunzel to come down. 
The panty raid is supposed to be a classic example of men facing their greatest love fears by risking inspection and rejection. Somehow "Yo! Hook me up with some fancy panties!" is not exactly what I had in mind. 
BUT the night after the raid this year, some Pangborn gentlemen held a box up in front of McCandless (shades of "Say Anything") and serenaded no one in particular with '"Everything I Do, I Do It For You." 
For guys who get cavities from sweet-talk­ing, sweeping women off their feet is not al­ways necessary to temporarily get in their good graces. The important thing to remem­ber is to not let arrested adolescents like Schwartz sell you short. If you don't want to commit, don't put yourself in a position where you feel pressured to. It's as simple as that. 
Correct me if I am wrong, hut male magazines don't have "It's a Female Thing" articles between the sports stories, do they? It's awfully presumptuous of Schwartz to as­sume women don't understand the men they're involved with and insulting to men to have "fears" imposed on them. 
A typical date to, say, This Can't Be Yogurt is about as nonthreatening as they get. And if you order a waffiecone, silverware isn't nec­essary. 
Today's staff: News: Accent: Paul Pearson Jahnelle Harrigan Steve Zavestowski Anna Marie Tabor Viewpoint: Sports: Julie Shepherd Anthony King Guy Lorangerz 
Scoreboard: 
Rolando deAguiar Production: 
Graphics: Melissa Cusack 
Brendan Regan Cynthia Ehrhardt 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obserwr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
' 

Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
The Observer 

: Mostly sunny today, 
• highs in the 70's. · . ; Cloudiness tonight : with 40 percent 

· : chance of showers . . : · : Cloudy and cooler 
·Wed.  
H  L  
84  57  
96  76  
66  50  
90  69  
77  70  
89  74  
75  42  
86  73  
90  71  
92  76  
92  72  
70  59  
85  62  
95  66  
85  76  
57  45  
92  70  
93  71  
75  55  
94  73  
75  64  
83  70  
72  54  
78  53  
80  71  
70  66  
9673  


,. ·. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Baker meets with Shamir 
• JERUSALEM-Secretary of State James Baker met with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir on Monday amid tensions over President Bush's refusal to expedite U.S. loan guarantees to house Israel's flood of Soviet immigrants. "What I'm proposing is in the best interest of peace,.. Bush said of his insistence that 

the loan program be held in abeyance. "This is the foreign policy of the United States while I'm president. No rancor about it and there are not personalities involved." But the president's policy stirred strong protest in Israel. When Baker's motorcade from the airport reached a crossroads at the entrance to Jerusalem, it was pelted with tomatoes. Baker's car was not hit, police said. 

NATIONAL 
NO junior arraigned in U of M melee 
• ANN ARBOR, Mlch.-Five of the alleged par­ticipants in a melee Saturday at the University of Michigan were arraigned yesterday, including one Notre Dame student. Of the five defendants, only one, a 17 year-old Ann Arbor resident charged with inciting a riot and felonious assault, remains in custody. Notre Dame junior Michael Hartmann was charged with felonious assault and was released on $1,000 bond, according to the Michigan Daily. He faces a maximum penalty of four years imprisonment, the paper said. '"We entered a plea 
OF INTEREST 
• 
esc van driver training course will be held today and Wednesday at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. Either one may be attended. This training is mandatory for anyone planning to drive esc vans. 

• 
A post-graduation volunteer opportunities in­formation session will be held today from 4:30-5:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All interested seniors and undergraduates are welcome. 


MARKET UPDATE 

of not guilty today, .. said Basil Baker, Hartmann's attorney. '"To comment any further on the case would be inappropriate." Preliminary examina~ions for Hartmann will begin Oct. 2, while examinations for the rest of the defendants is set to begin Sept. 25. 

INDIANA 

Court sup~orts right-to-die verdict 
• 
INDIAN POLIS -The state's highest court ruled today that the family of a brain-damaged woman at the center of a right-to-die fight had the authority to halt artificial feedings before her death in July. The ruling comes after a six-month court fight pitting William and Bonita Lawrance, the woman's parents, against the National Legal Center for the Medically Dependent and Disabled.The Lawrances won permission in May from Hamilton Superior Court Judge Jerry Barr to cease Lawrance's feedings, and she went without nourishment from May 3 to May 17. 

• 
Ans and Letters placement night will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Representa­tives from Baxter Healthcare, May Co., and United Way will discuss career opportunities. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

• 
The An Tostal '92 spring festival's first general meeting will be held tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Contact Matt at 239-7757 for more informa­tion. 


ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In , 787: the Constitution of the United States was completed and signed by a majority of delegates attending the constitutional convention in Philadelphia. 

• 
In 1920: the American Professional Football Association ­a precursor of the NFL -was formed in Canton, Ohio, where league franchises were sold for $100 each. 

• 
In 1939: the Soviet Union invaded Poland, more than two weeks after Nazi Germany launched its assault. 

• 
In 1983:Vanessa Williams of New York became the first black contestant to be crowned Miss America. 


Tuesday, September 17, 1991 The Observer 
page 3 

Security Senate discusses discussed at 





Du Lac with Kirk. 
BOG meeting 
By JOSEPH ADAMS students to formulate sugges­News Writer tions about the policy. Student
By MAUREEN COLLINS 
Government organized a task
News Writer 
The recent changes to Notre force to accomplish these goals
Security issues became a 
Dame's alcohol policy may drive last year, but it dissolved for
dominant topic at Monday's 
students off-campus for social reasons unknown.
meeting of the Saint Mary's 
gatherings where they could Members of the Senate alsoBoard of Governance (BOG). 
become greater victims of expressed concern that the newIn response to the recent at­crime, according to some mem­policy would force students totacks that occurred on Saint bers of Student Senate. conduct more social gatherings
Mary's campus, BOG, along 
The alcohol policy was ad­off-campus.
with Saint Mary's Security, will dressed in last night's Senate However, Kirk said the new 
sponsor a Security Walk 
meeting where Bill Kirk, assis­rules do not affect social gath­Around today at 8:30 p.m. Stu­tant vice-president for Resi­erings in rooms. He added thatdents will inspect the campus 
dence Life, explained the the administration had taken
for dangerous areas in order to 
nature of the changes and this issue into account while
submit proposals to help im­listened to student input about drafting the new rules and thatprove these areas. 
the policy. the rules are subject to revisionThe walk will begin in Holy There were two major if adverse consequences result. 
Cross Lobby. BOG invites all changes to Du Lac this summer Senators also raised the issuestudents to participate. 
concerning alcohol. First, un­of "personal consumption" andSecurity issues will also be a derage students may not pub­the concern that this new rulemajor topic at an open forum licly transport alcohol and sec­might drive students off-cam­sponsored by the SMC Student 
ond, the amount of alcohol pus if they could not provide
Government on Wednesday at 7 transported on campus by stu­enough alcohol for guests. Kirk p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Students dents of legal age must be con­replied that he believed that are encouraged to bring any sistent with responsible drink­transporting an amount ofideas or questions they have ing, according to Kirk. alcohol consistent with respon­about improving the campus to Kirk said that the new policy sible consumption should notthis discussion. 
was developed in response to affect student gatherings. 
SMC Student Government will rectors and faculty who ex­In other matters, the Senatealso sponsor a Security Aware­pressed concern over the large reviewed the Business Board ness Week Oct. 6-12. A self-de­quantity of alcohol carried onto Report for the three student­fense demonstration has been campus each weekend. The run businesses on campus: Irishscheduled as one of the high­administration felt that this ac­Gardens, Notre Dame Video,lights for that week. 
tivity promoted underage and Adworks. Irish Gardens 
Clarification 
Do to a circulation error, The Observer was not dis­tributed to the Saint Mary's campus on Wednesdav. Sept. 11. The Observer regrets the error and any inconveniences it may have caused. 
drinking and was inconsistent with moderate alcohol con­sumption. 
Members of the Senate ex­pressed concern regarding the lack of student input to Du Lac, and specifically, the alcohol 


policy. Kirk said that although the Office of StudentAffairs has 
Lending a hand 
sole responsibility for Du Lac, it welcomes student input.

~h:sf stat~e in Ril~y Hall of Art and Design points visitors toward a 
He suggested the formation of 

e P ul d1rectory 1n the building's lobby. 
a task force composed of 





The College of Business Administration 
In Celebration of The University's Sesquientennial and the 70th Anniversary of the College Invites You to Attend 

C~ou.ECa·: oF Bt JSINES.<; Ani\IINISTRATION 
lJNIVER<.;ITY OF NOTRE DAME 
and Notre Dame Video reported losses of $208.64 and $1,412.76, respectively. Ad­works reported a profit of $3,767.84. 
The Senate also approved by­laws for P.IP.r.t.ion of thP ~rAsh­man Class Council. Students must have 10 freshmen in their dorm stgn a petition in order to represent their dorm. If no one wishes to run for the seat, the rector may appoint someone. 


A Convocation of Our Graduates 
Seventy Years of Business Education at Notre Dame 1921 -1991 
Thursday, September 19, 1991, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame 
1:30 p.m.-3:45p.m.: Convocation ofGraduates 
Moderator: Dr. John R. Malone Professor Emeritus of Marketing 
Mr. Edm~nd R. Haggar  Mr. James L. Hesburgh  
Honorary Chrurman of the Board,  President and Chief Executive Officer,  
Haggar Apparel Company  J.L. Hesburgh International, Inc. Business Administration  
Dr. Joseph A. Pichler  Mr. William Lehr, Jr.  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  Senior Vice President and Secretary,  
The Kroger Company  Hershey Foods Corporation.  

Mr. James M. Corgel Director of Process Industries, IBM Corporation 
4:00p.m.-5:00p.m.: 

"The 90's: Main Street Emerges-Wall Street Recedes" Moderator:
Mr. Philip J. Purcell, III 
Dr. Frank Reilly 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard J. Hank Professor of Business 
Dean Witter Financial Services Group Inc. Administration 

A Business Advisory Council Colloquium on "The Challenge of Education" 
Friday, September 20, 1991, Center for Continuing Education, Main Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
8:30a.m.-9:40a.m.: The Role ofBusiness Schools Dean Tom Keller, Duke University, Fuqua School ofBusiness Dean Jack Keane, University ofNotre Dame, College of 
10:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m.: The Role ofthe Private Sector A panel ofprominent business leaders, presidents, and ChiefExecutive Officers. 
1:30 p.m.-2:45p.m.: The Role ofthe Public Sector Senator Bill Bradley (D., NJ) "America's Challenge in the Post-Communist World." 
page4 The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1991 


Class Thomas ends confirmation testimony 
continued from page 12 

WASHINGTON (AP}-Supreme spokesman Marlin Fitzwater date. whose nomination was rejected Court nominee Clarence said. ' But to receive the ABA's by the Senate in 1987. Four Thomas concluded five days of "The president said that higher "well-qualified" rating, dissenters on the rating com­grueling conrrrmation testimony Judge Thomas's testimony "the candidate has to be among mittee found Bork not qualified, Monday as the nation's legal showed the American people the most prominent members of saying they had questions about establishment said he was an that he has an outstanding our profession," Olson said. his judicial temperament. outstanding candidate but not record, is committed to the rule Thomas did not meet that Democrats continued to the best possible choice for the of law, and will preserve and standard because of his limited complain that Thomas had high court. protect the Constitution," experience as a federal appeals ducked questions on important 
Thomas renewed his pledge Fitzwater said in a statement. judge. "He has not been faced issues after disavowing not to bring an ideological "The president is confident with those experiences, he is provocative opinions he had agenda to the Supreme Court that Judge Thomlls will be con­untested," Olson said. expressed on a number of and Democrats continued to firmed," he added. Olson noted that two mem­topics when he was an official complain that he had ducked The head of the American Bar bers of the panel dissented from in the Reagan administration. questions about controversial Association's judicial screening the rating, primarily because of "Your vanishing views, Judge views he had expressed in the panel said that Thomas was an Thomas' lack of legal Thomas, have become major is­past. outstanding nominee but not experience. sues in these hearings," Sen. 
"Whatever you determine, I'd the most qualified candidate. The two dissenters, who Edward Kennedy, 0-Mass.told like to reiterate that I've been President Bush had called found Thomas unqualified, the nominee. treated fairly," Thomas told the Thomas the best qualified per­cited his writings and articles in "It's difficult to accept the Senate Judiciary Committee son for the job when he nomi­legal journals that "have been notion that the moment you put before leaving the ornate Sen­nated him to succeed Justice criticized by a wide range of on that judge's robe all the ate Caucus Room. Thurgood Marshall. individuals," Olson said. . views and positions which you 
President Bush telephoned Ronald Olson said that The last five Supreme Court held prior to going on the bench Thomas "and congratulated Thomas was rated "qualified" nominees received "well quali­just magically disappear," said him on the completion of his for the Supreme Court because fied" ratings from the associa­Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D­testimony," presidential he was an outstanding candi-tion, including Robert Bork, Ohio and another liberal. 
Kmiec, however, said that this have someone ... who has expe­ruling that legalized abortion. If factor should help, not hinder, rienced poverty, who has expe­Thomas is confirmed, his will
Thomas 

the nominee. "It means that he rienced struggle and adversity," be an insurance vote for those appreciates the universal he said. against abortion, he said. 
continued from page 1 

dignity of all persons, so he will All factors considered, Kmiec not be drawing specious said, "I think that it is highly Thomas was nominated by disti~;tctions among people," he likely that he'll he confirmed." President George Bush in July.
being considered for a position 

said. Kmiec said that, should he The Senate Judiciary
as a judicial decision maker, 

"someone who is going to be Thomas' life of overcoming take a seat on the high court, Committee is in the process of adversity could also have an Thomas will be another indica­reviewing Thomas' background
given the serious responsibility impact on his confirmation, said tion of a changing court. and qualifications in a two­ofjudging cases," Kmiec said. 

Kmiec. "The judicial committee "The general direction of the week hearing consisting ofKmiec said that this sets ... and the American public at court," he said, "is toward be­testimony by Thomas and later
precedent for Supreme Court 

large are somewhat impressed ing ... less willing to read into by opponents and proponents ofnominees in the future to put a by Clarence Thomas' ability to the constitution their own per­the nominee, according to
wall between their opinions of surmount the level of poverty sonal beliefs." Rather, the Kmiec.

the past and their stance as a that he confronted as a child." courts of the coming years maynominee. 

More importantly, he said that tend to limit their interpretation The committee will then voteSome criticism has been di­Thomas' character is important of the constitution to the actual to recommend either approval
rected toward the nominee 

toward diversifying the text, be said. or disapproval of Thomas to theabout his adherence to natural perspective of the court. "I Kmiec added that tbP. court is full Senate. The Senate laterlaw. the belief that all men are think it is institutionally very already on the path toward votes to confirm or deny theentitled to dignity and respect 
good for the Supreme Court to overturning Roe vs. Wade, the nominee.
as humans. 
The Observer is currently accepting applications for tile following paid positions: Asst Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Features Photo Editor Saint Mary•s Photo Editor iA one page page personal statement should be submitted to Andrew McCloskey at The Observer by Thursday, Sept 19, at 5pm. For further information contact Andrew McCloskey at239-7471 
To Rich Kurz. one of the biggest Giants fans on this campus, thanks for all the help Sunday night, because I know I was being a pain. Hey Jen Marten, I lasted until 4 a.m. How long did you go for your first time?? 
Rich 
TO OUR GUESTS FRIDAY NIGHT: 
To Bob who snored all night, To Doug the pillow thief, To Jeff (ow, dresser!), To Chris who swims in his 
underwear, And especially to Jeff, the only sane one of the bunch.•. 
THANKS FOR NO SLEEP, BUT A MEMORABLE NIGHT! Kath, Debra, Anita, & Laura 
ATIN: All WHITE STUDENTS We're trying to organize a white student yearbook that would serve as a supplement to the Dome. This yearbook would cover only caucasian events on campus. If interested call John Doe, xOOOO 
Claven is raving 
Molly Crowe­You're gorgeous 
Top ten quotes heard from the mouthe of STERLING BLACK at Ann Arbor: 
1. 
Woooo Par-tayllll 

2. 
C'mon guys, lers sing the fight song! 

3. 
I need another brew-ski. 

4. 
Have you guys seen Joey V. 

5. 
Seriously, she just raped me. 

6. 
Remember boys: Party first. Safety last. 

7. 
Screw these frats, I live for Tappa Kegga Dei. 

8. 
let's take our shirts off and cut some rug! 

9. 
I've had 43 beers this weekend! 

10. 
I'm a bigger deadhead than him, man. 



Hey A& K! 
Here's the top quotes from our ROAD TRIP FROM HELL! 
• 
Where do you live? ... I'm SORRY ... Where do you live? 

• 
Happy Birthday, Cindy! Your friends are stupid! 

• 
Nice t-shirt ... NOT! 


• 
Where do you live? Knott. -Excuse me. Knon.. -Oh, you don't live on campus? 

• 
That's the hugest squirrel I've ever seen I -Amanda, it's a skunk. 

• 
Would you consider cheating on your fiance? 

• 
Every time I see her it puts me in a bad mood! 

• 
There's nothing to see here... Please disperse! 

• 
AMANDA P •..• is that a request? 


• 
I'm sorry to burst your bubble girts, but you're staying here. • •.. Wheat Thin??? 

• 
Oh, he's an alcoholic.. -Hey, get a life! 

• 
Boys night out at the Nectarine! 



looking forward to PURDUE! Love, M & C 
BRIAN & DON­YOU GUYS ARE JUST THE HOTTEST! LOVE, THE KNOTT GALAXY CHICKS!@#$ 
HELP! If I don't get two PITT TICKETS, my parents will remove my favorite appendage! Chris X1088 
The Secret of Getting Rich: 
Amazing Book Tells All. Free Offer Details-Send a self-addressed stamped envelope to: Book. P.O. Box 311 Mercersburg, PA 17236-A 
IAISE ssoo•••11ooo•••$1500 
IFOOLI 
l~;r·=·J~
..... 




RAISING ~ 
For rour fraternity, soronty, team or olher campus organization. 
AUO,Uft,YNO INVII'rMIIIf RIOUIRIDI 
CALL 1·800·950·8472, ext. 50 




,------­
Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
Aquino makes call for base referendum 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­President Corazon Aquino vowed Monday to call a public referendum and use "people power" to overturn a Senate vote against renewing the lease for a big U.S. Navy base. 
Her action could delay a U.S. withdrawal from the Subic Bay base for months or even years. The base is a major supply and repair station for U.S. 7th Fleet ships in the western Pacific and the Indian Ocean. 
The current lease on the base expired Monday. 
The U.S. government had said the Navy would begin leaving quickly if the Senate rejected the treaty to extend the lease for 10 years. But U.S. officials said Monday a departure would be delayed to await the refer­endum. 
The White House praised Aquino. "'We do appreciate her efforts. She's trying to engender public support for the treaty," spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. 
Aquino's former allies in the "'people power revolution" that installed her in office pleaded with her to accept the Senate's 12-11 vote to close the base and end the 9 3-year American military presence here. 
They said holding a public referendum could undermine the democratic institutions she created after replacing the ousted Ferdinand Marcos in 1986. But Aquino would not back down on her plan to let 
the voters decide the issue. 
ruce tJiarts finally turned 21 l on Sunday • wish this 0 chubble a HaWpy Birthday 
~ 

• 
"The great majority of the Filipino people still want the Americans to continue to stay on," she said. . 
In an interview with NBC-TV, Aquino said a U.S. pullout would harm the country's economy and delay plans to modernize the Philippines mili­tary. 
Asked if she favored a con­tinued U.S. presence because American warplanes helped end one of the most serious of seven attempts to topple her, she said, "'I feel pretty confident there is no longer any threat of coup attempts." 
Aquino said there was no definite agreement on how long the U.S. bases would remain without a treaty, but she said anti-base senators earlier had proposed a three-year period of withdraw!.. 
Most Filipinos are believed to support keeping Subic Bay open, although surveys also say about 25 percent of the 61 mil­lion Filipinos are unaware of the U.S. presence. 
Opposition to the treaty is strongest in the better-educated urban classes. 
Opponents said they were not against the United States, but viewed U.S. military bases as an infringement on the Philippines' sovereignty. They also complained the treaty provided no firm aid guarantees, and s~id the prlJplJs~d rent of $203 million a year was not enough. 
The Observer pageS 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman Sailing away 
Students took advantage of windy conditions yesterday by spending the afternoon sailing on St. Joseph Lake. With rain in the forecast, however, these days may be numbered. 
MIAMI (AP) -Manuel Nor­iega, the most powerful man in Panama, was "just another crooked cop" who sold his na­tion to Colombian cocaine kingpins, a prosecutor said Monday to open the ousted dic­tator's drug trial. 
Pointing to Noriega and call­ing him a "small man in a gen­eral's uniform," lead prosecutor Michael Sullivan said the government would prove Nor­iega abused his authority to help a flood of cocaine pour into the United States. 
Noriega came to the Medellin cartel's attention in the late 1970s when he arrested smug­glers and intercepted drug shipments, Sullivan said. 
"The cartel chiefs sat down and said they were either going 
Attention Photographers 
There will be an organizational for all Observer photographers on Tuesday Sept. 17th at 7:30pm in the Sarin Room, first floor of LaFortune. Any· new photographers interested in working for the Observer are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Andrew McCloskey at 239-7471 
to eliminate him, or they were going to buy him," the prosecu­tor said. "They decided to buy him." 
The defense elected to hold its opening statement until the prosecution rests, which could take months. 
Among the first prosecution witnesses was convicted U.S. drug trafficker Max Mermel­stein, who was among others expected to outline operations of the Medellin cartel. 
Mermelstein is in the federal witness protection program and says there's a $3 million price on his head. He took the stand under tight security. U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler asked sketch artists not to draw 


---------------~·-···-·---··--~----------------------------------' 
his face. 
Mermelstein, who smuggled 55 tons of cocaine to the United States in the early 1980s, traced his involvement in the cartel, whose drug and finan­cial records he eventually con­
trolled. 
Mermelstein, who was paid $250,000 by the government for information, said he met in 1981 with cartel leaders Jorge Ochoa and Pablo Escobar in Panama to discuss expanding their business. 
He didn't mention Noriega in his testimony but was expected to after his scheduled return to the stand on Tuesday. 
Earlier Monday, prosecutors referred for the rrrst time to two face-to-face meetings Noriega 
allegedly held with cartel leaders in Panama in 1982 and Colombia in 1983 to negotiate a deal. 
According to witnesses who will include the cartel's con­victed U.S. manager, Carlos Le­hder Rivas, Noriega proved willing to sell himself-but greedy. 
Georgia 
continued from page 1 
the president won by a land­slide. He has joined thousands in accusing Gamsakhurdia of becoming a dictator since the election. 
An estimated 30,000 people on Monday mobbed downtown Republic Square to hear the former prime minister, Tengiz Segua, demand that the presi­dent resign. 
A short time later and just 200 yards away, thousands of 
· Gamsakhurdia supporters ral­lied just as loudly, some waving portraits handed out in ad­vance. 
A large mass of local police, some with sidearms, stood arm-in-arm through the center of the 200-yard stretch to sep­arate the pro-and anti-Gam­sakhurdia forces. No incidents were reported. 
Later, thousands of opposition supporters rallied outside the government~controlled TV station, the republic's only tele­vision since Russian and Soviet broadcasts were interrupted last week. 
"We want access to TV," said student Michael Dzhgenti, 16. "People in the villages and towns outside Tbilisi don't know what's going on." 
The political temperature and language hurled from each side in Georgia have mounted steadily since local militia for_ces opened fire on an oppo­sitiOn demonstration Sept. 2, wounding five people. 
The Observer 

page 6 Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
Judge dismisses North's charges 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A fed­eral judge dismissed all charges against Oliver North, the cen­tral figure in the Iran-Contra affair, on Monday after the special prosecutor gave up try­ing to reinstate North's felony convictions. 
An exultant North declared himself "totally exonerated, completely. I don't have another word for it ... I've had my last hearing forever, I hope." 
North hugged his attorney, family and friends in the court­room after U.S. District Court Judge Gerhard Gesell dismissed the charges and said, "This terminates the case." 
Independent counsel Lawrence Walsh said he had decided it was unlikely he could win reinstatement of North's three convictions -for de­stroying documents, accepting an illegal gratuity and aiding in obstruction of Congress ­which were set aside by a fed­eral appeals court in July 1990. 
The appeals court had ordered Gesell to determine whether testimony at North's trial was tainted by use of the defendant's own forced testi­mony before Congress, given under immunity in 1987. Last week former National Security Adviser Robert McFar­lane, North's White House boss for a time during the Reagan administration, dealt a heavy blow to the prosecution by say­ing in court that his testimony had been influenced by North's statements to Congress. 

North was a little-known Ma­rine colonel detailed to the White House at the time of the main events of the Iran-Contra affair-the resupply at his di­rection of the Nicaraguan rebels while such aid was illegal and the eventual diversion to the Contras of money from the sale of U.S. arms to Iran. 
Disclosure of the basic facts in late 1986 was the worst blow to the Reagan administration during its eight years, but the televised congressional hear­ings that followed made North a national figure. 

Learning martial arts 
TheObserver!EiisaKiosterman 
Notre Dame students learned some of the finer points of TaeKwonDo yesterday at the Rockne Memo­rial. The students are part of the Notre Dame T ae Kwon Do club. 

Campus Ministry 

0MPUS MINISTRY
... considerations 

REFLECTIONS ON THE SESQUICENTENNIAL 
Well, it's here. The much anticipated Sesquicentennial celebrations have begun. From now until the Fall of 1992 there will be special lectures, dedications and feasts as well as many other events, all celebrating this great milestone of our university community. 
It occurs to me that the meaning given to this time of celebrating 150 years of Notre Dame's mission and ministry will be different for different people. The significance of this milestone will mean one thing to a Freshman, another thing for a Senior. It will have a different impact on someone who is the first in their family to come to Notre Dame, than on one who has had other family members come here. This historic event will mean different things, to the administration, the faculty and to the Holy Cross Religious, many of whom have dedicated their entire lives to Notre Dame. 
But whatever our personal history or investment in the University might be, I hope that all of us take this time to reflect deeply on what it means for us to be here; what it means to be a part of a mission that has thrived for 150 years. 
. 

For it would be easy for us to let this time pass us by amid the celebrations and our hectic schedules, and not take the time to look at what it is we have become in these 150 years. Now is a great time to take an honest look at what it is about our community and institution which is good and ought to continue into the future. It is also the time to make an assessment of where we need to grow and change. It is a time to look clearly at who we have become, and to look ahead to who we might become. 
All of the planned events for the Sesquicentennial are important ways for our community to celebrarte a truly great event in our school's history, but we will surely miss out on something great if we don't take the time to look deeply into who we have become in these 150 years. For if all we do is celebrate for celebration's sake, the fact that we are 150 years old, then any thunder we might "shake down" in joyous festivity will only dissipate and fade into the vastness of time like a loud, but ultimately meaningless rumble of thunder. 
We can, however, in the midst of the joy and wonder of this great event, dare to look at the deeper, perduring questions of what this history reveals. If we do that, this time of sesquicentennial celebration will indeed be a time of truth seeking which will shine forever as a beacon to guide us through the challenges to come. 
Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. 
•....•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
..
..
.. 
Mass Schedule at Sacred Heart Church
..
.. Saturday, September 21
.. 
5:00 pm -Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C .
..
..
..
.. Sunday, September 22.. 8:00 am -Fr. George Wiskirchen, c.s.c.
.. 
.. 
.. 10:00 am -Fr. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 11:45 am -Fr. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c.
..
..
.. 



Tuesday, September 17, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Gates confirmation hearings commence 


"I suspect few people have re­
flected more than I have on the 
Iran-Contra affairs ... but today 
tras of profits from the sale of I want to speak about the 
U.S. arms to Iran before specu­misjudgments that I made and lation on such dealing was the lessons I learned," Gates 
brought to his attention on Oct. told the committee. 1, 1986. "At the same time, I believe 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Last-minute studying 
that the actions I did take were 
The 4 7 -year-old analyst had well-intentioned and honest," made the same contention dur-he said. 

Mariah Sharkey, ND freshman, catches up on her studies in Waddick's Monday in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Negotiator arrives in war-torn Yugoslavia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP} greb, the Croatian capital, and aggressive strategy of -A European Community television officials said their neighboring Slovenia that led to peace n ego tia tor came to Yu­transmitter outside the city was withdrawal of federal soldiers goslavia Monday in an atmo­slightly damaged by a missile. there after brief but fierce sphere of near total war in Lord Carrington, the· Euro­fighting. Croatia for a summit with its pean Community mediator, But it seemed unlikely that president and the leader of ri­faced the task of finding com­the Serbian-dominated armyval Serbia. mon ~rround between Croatian would !live uo so easilv in 
Federal military units an­President Franjo Tudjman and Croatia. nounced an offensive to lift the Serbian President Slobodan Croatia accuses Serbia, the siege of army garrisons in the Milosevic. largest of Yugoslavia's six re­major Adriatic coastal cities of What little the two men had publics, of instigating the Split, Zadar, and Sibenik. A in common has all but disap­fighting in an attempt to expand federal air force jet was shot peared in 2 1/2 months of its territory as Yugoslavia down near the Hungarian bor­fighting in Croatia that has disintegrates. Milosevic saysder. killed more than 400 people. Croatia cannot take Serb-dom­
Air raid sirens wailed for the Croatia, despite battlefield inated areas with it if it secedesHugh second consecutive day in Za-losses that have cost it a third from Yugoslavia. 


HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO WORK FOR: 
Allstate Nintendo Arnurol Noxell Corp. Black & Decker Oldsmobile Commonwealth Edison Philip Morris, Inc. 
Dean Witter Pillsbury 
First Brands (Including Green Giant) 
Hallmark Cards, Inc. Procter & Gamble 
H.J. Heinz Richardson-Vicks, Inc. Heinz Pet Products Samsonite Luggage The Keebler Company Schenley _Industries, Inc. Kellogg Sealy, Inc. Kraft, Inc. The Seven-Up Company Maytag Sony Corporation of America McCaw Cellular Communications Star Kist McDonald's Corp. Tropicana 
Miller Brewing Company United Airlines Mrs. Smith's Frozen Foods Co. Unocal 
ALL OF THEM. 
They're our clients. Or rather, our partners. For their business is our business. Every day, we contribute marketing and advertising ideas to all these blue chip companies, working as a team to move their business ahead. If you'd like a career with a challenging diversity, and one that's also a lot of fun, come hear about the advertising business according to Leo Burnett. 
Client Service Presentation Undergrads MBA's Thursday, September 19 Monday, September 30 
6:00 pm  7:00 pm  
Senior Bar  Monogram Room  
P.S. Free Apples  ACC  


LEO BUHNETI COMPANY, INC. 35 W. Wackl'r Dnvl· Chkago,lllmois 60601 
of its territory, stiffened both its Tensions between the Croats political and military posture by and ethnic Serbs, who make up barricading federal army 12 percent of Croatia's 4.7 mil­facilities. lion people, are fanned by 
The republic, which declared memories of the World War II 
independence in June, slaughter of Serbs by a Nazi 
appeared to be adopting the puppet regime in Croatia. 

An International Favorite
I 
I 
Comic/Mime 
I
I 
I 
i 
FRIDAY, OCT. 4, 8 P.M. 
II 
I 
.A. moreau galleries, sylvia taccani, photographs; michael Shaughnessy, sculptural installation, sept. 6-oct. 4, admission free .A. saint mary's theatre, hansel &gretel: an old tale newly told, nov. 14-17 
.A. jonathan frid's shakespearean odyssey, nov. 23 .A. the south bend chamber singers gala christmas concert, dec. 20 Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, 
located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Visa/MasterCard orders at 284-4626. 
. if--­
SatntMary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Robert Gates said Monday at the open­ing of confirmation hearings on his nomination as CIA director that he made "misjudgments" during the Iran-Contra affair and "should have asked more questions." Skeptical Democrats accused him of will­ful ignorance. 
Questioning of Gates was dominated by Iran-Contra, the five-year-old affair that un­folded while Gates was No. 2 at the CIA. Now a national secu­rity aide at the White House, Gates was nominated last July by President Bush to succeed William Webster at the CIA helm. 
Gates repeatedly denied he had any knowledge of the di­version to the Nicaraguan Con­ing hearings on his previous nomination to the top CIA post by President Reagan in 1987­a nomination that was with­drawn amid heated questions about his possible role in the affair. This time, his denial was offered with contrite additions. 
"I could have and probably should have acted more ag­gressively" in trying to find out more information, Gates said. 
In his defense, he told the Se­nate Intelligence Committee that during that period he had been preoccupied with other developments, such as a coup in the Philippines and a super­power summit, "and frankly I didn't pay much attention" to the Iran-Contra developments. 
The Observer 

page 8 Tuesday, September 17, 1991 

I ! f 
r 
( 
Make sure your road trip proceeds without ahitch. 


Sometimes road trips can be a little more adventurous than you expect them to be. Which is why you 
should always pack your AT&T Calling Card D It's all you need to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. 
Its the least expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. And you'll be connected to the 
reliable service you've come to expect from AT&T. D Plus if you get your Calling Card now, you'll also get a free hours 
worth of AT&T long distance calling.* And you'll become a member of AT&TStudent Saver Plus, a program of products and 
, 

services designed to save students time and money. D The AT&TCalling Card Its the best route to wherever you're going. 
Get an AT&T Calling Cardtoday. Calli 800 654-0471 Ext. 4812. 

AT&T 

*Good lor one hour of dired-dialed, coast-to-coast, night and weekend calhng, based on prices effective 2/16/91 Offer limited to one $8.25 AT&T Long Distance Certiicate per student. Offer valid through June 30, 1992. ©1991 AT&T 
I f I I I f 


Tuesday, September 17, 1991 The Observer page9 

ACT scores hold steady; minorities gain ground 
NEW YORK (AP) -Average scores on the ACT Assessment held steady in 1991 from the previous year, but test officials hailed the results as a sign mi­nority students are gaining in school achievement. 
The composite average was 20.6, unchanged from 1990. Scores on the four-part exam, the predominant college en­trance test in 28 states mainly in the West and Midwest, have barely moved since 1987, when they averaged 20.8. 
The multiple-choice test is scored on a scale of 1-36. The average on the ACT, adminis­tered by American College Testing in Iowa City, Iowa, was based on the scores of 797,000 students who graduated from high school last spring. 
ACT revised its exam in 1989, and test officials said national averages from 1987 through 1989 were converted to make 
Ride Horses at Home? 
IR.ide Here! Available for lease during 91-92 school year. One quality thoroughbred hunter. This horse is safe and has won the local medal classes. Call Chris Kerner at Four Flags Farm 
night. If Discovery had not

'-•••••••llllliiilillliillilliiliiill••••••••!!l, changed its orbit, it would have 
Back to Cool 
When Thste Matters 
Make the creamy, delicious taste of Colombo Frozen 
_ Yogurt part of your curriculum. 
~· ~~~~~ 
~----­
YOGIS YOGURT 
BUYONELARGECOLOMB~ 
GET ONE SMALL FOR FREE. 
Not valid with any other promotional offer. limit one per customer. 
No expiration date 
Coupon redeemable only at: 
Yogis Yogurt 17911 State Rd. 23 (across from old Martin's) 


-·--------------------­
"Yogis Yogurt" is offering student discount cards good for 15% discount on all purchases. To get your card, stop by the store location listed below. lAcross from old Martin's) and 1st Source Bank 17911 State Rd. 23 NE Corner. Ironwood 
277-4337 
We deliver Mon., Tues., Thurs. 

them comparable to scores on the revised test. 
ACT President Richard Fer­guson said he was encouraged that scores have held up despite steady increases in the numbers of minority test­takers. Minority groups continue to score well below the national average although their 1991 scores held steady or slightly improved. 
Nearly 27 percent of all test­takers were non-white in 1991 compared with 21 percent in 1987, according to a summary report. 
Eighteen percent more black students took the test in 1991 than in 1987, 50 percent more Asian-Pacific Islanders, 47 per­cent more Puerto Ricans and Cubans, and 37 percent more Mexican-Americans. But 4 per­cent fewer whites took the exam. 
Couples Golf Outing 
Sunday, September 22 2:30pm 
Notre Dame GolfCourse 9 hole outingandpicnic Faculty, staffand their families invited $15.00percouple Includes golf, cart & picnic 
Registerat the GolfShop 
tCAMPUS GOLF:! 
2 PERSON SCRAMBLE 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 TEE TIMES STARTING AT 11:00 AM AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 

rr:.
FACULTY AND STAFF 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
SIGN UP AS INDIVIDUALS OR IN PAIRS. PAIRS MUST HAVE ONE PLAYER OVER 90 
FEES DUE WITH ENTRY $4.50 FOR STUDENTS 57.00 FOR FACULTY AND STAFF 
REGISTER AT THE GOLF SHOP (ROCKNE) DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 25 
The Observer/Greg Massa 
Bicycle lock-up 
Chris Coppula, sophomore, takes safety precautions by locking his bike outside of Fisher Hall Monday. 
Discovery dodges Soviet space debris 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ~ The Discovery early Monday dodged a chunk of a Soviet rocket, the first such near miss of the shuttle program, before the crew assembled a giant "Erector Set" as practice for the proposed space station. 
The five astronauts should not have to worry about any more such encounters during the mission, NASA said. 
The shuttle and the debris ­about the size of a van ­passed within about 10 miles of each other minutes after mid­come within about 1.4 miles of the rocket, NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said late Monday afternoon. 
It was the first time in the tO­year-old shuttle program that astronauts had to move their ship to avoid orbiting debris. 
"I think we scored a space first," Mission Control's Jan Davis told the crew before they went to sleep for the day. "Good work on everybody's part." 
The astronauts have been working at night and sleeping during the day since they reached orbit Thursday, ar­ranging their schedule around 
the midnight release of an at­
mospheric observation satellite. 
Before going to sleep, the as­
tronauts assembled a large 
Tinkertoy-like structure in the 
first test of a truss model for the 
planned space station. The 64­
inch long, 8-inch square device 
was shaken electronically to see 
how it withstands vibration in 
microgravity. 
"While it might look like an Erector Set ... it's not a trivial experiment," astronaut James Buchli said in a preflight inter­view. "I expect there are two or three folks whose Ph.D.s are riding on it." 
Buchli and crewmen Mark Brown assembled the device by snapping its gold-colored joints into place. The rest of the 
structure consists of white 
plastic pieces. 
The two astronauts planned 
to return to tests on the model 
Monday evening. 
Also on Monday night's agenda was a live radio inter­view with broadcaster Larry King. 
Harkin hits 
I 
campatgn trail in N.H. 
MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP)­Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin worked New Hampshire's unemploy­ment lines Monday on his first full day as a presidential candi­date, telling jobless workers, "I understand what's happening to ordinary, hard-working Americans because I've been there." 
Harkin, who announced his candidacy Sunday in Iowa, de­clined to take shots at fellow Democrats, instead giving New Hampshire a taste of what he promised will be a no-holds­barred campaign against Pres­ident Bush. 
"I do not look upon Paul Tsongas or Doug Wilder or any other Democrats who might get in the race as my opponents," he said. "I look upon them as allies in an effort to get this country turned around." 
"I want to put two people on the unemployment line: George Bush and J. Danforth Quayle,·· he said. 
Harkin, 51, spent the day greeting jobless people at unemployment offices in Dover and Manchester. He called on Bush to spend less time on for­
eign policy, and more on find­
ing ways to put unemployed 
Americans back to work. 


~----------·~-------~---....... 

Viewpoint 
Page 10 Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
-_·l~lte=ObserNer_­P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busln... Manag• Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor..................Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  l NEVER AAVE M'/TIUt-Ki 10 00 WITH TIIE5E G\JY0, '{OJ UND~1ANP-..  

LEitERS TO THE EDITOR 

HPC acted out of 'compassion' .Right to Life member asks 
Dear Editor, avoid with this "vague" letter. the way that the letter de­I am writing in response to an Now let us examine the letter scribes; a way that will be more 
all to fight against -abortion 

editorial which expressed the in an attempt to understand. effective and compassionate view of The Observer con­First, Mr. Yore states in his let­than the approach taken last 
Dear Editor: Bend last spring, four of our

cerning a letter sent to the Hall ter to the Hall Presidents that year during 'Coming Out Day' Every day in America inno­members went so far as to bePresidents by Micheal Yore "they have the power to discuss and condoned by The Observer. 
cent, defenseless people are de­arrested for what we believe in. 

('86,'92)-a concerned student gay, lesbian and bisexual issues I would also like to reiterate nied the right to exist. These Our concern about this tragicattempting to guard the rights with (their) hall councils," and that there was no mention in people (for they are human be­loss of human life is greatof gay, lesbian and bisexual he hopes that they do so in the letter that Mr. Yore wanted ings even before they enter the enough to motivate us to act,students. order to make their hall a Safe the Hall President's Council to world) are unborn, whose lives not for personal ~ain, but in theThe Observer states that Mr. Haven. After a rudimentary act as a group as The Observer are taken by the practice• of interests of those who have noYore's letter was vague in analysis of this statement we believeS' we should have, thus I abortion. Numerous have been way to act for themselves. 
nature, but was it? My answer see-that Mr. Yore wants this is­did not feel that it was out duty the pleas. prayers and debates Fundam~ntally, we believeis "no", I believe he wrote the sue to be discussed at each hall to change the focus of Mr. 
concerning this very divisive is· that all human life is precious.

letter in such a manner so as to council meeting, not the Hall Yore's memorandum. 
sue. Abortion, no matter how younot create a major public issue, President's Council meeting. Therefore, I believe that the Actions, however, as we all look at it, destroys human life.

which might have happened Secondly, Mr. Yore says that Hall President's Council did not know, speak louder than words. We must all, as Christians whohad we pursued the avenue he hopes, "to be able to make a miss "a golden opportunity to Abortion activists from around value life, act for change. 
favored by The Observer. presentation about (the Safe engage in dialogue about an the country made headlines this On behalf of ND/SMC Right toAs we have all seen before, Haven) to the hall councils." important issue on this summer in Wichita, Kansas, Life, I challenge you to put yourissues concerning gay, lesbian Here we see that Mr. Yore campus," but in fact pursued among other places, for taking beliefs into action, in letters toand bisexual rights (such as last wishes to keep this issue re­the issue in an effective and their beliefs to the street to the Observer or in participationyear's 'Coming Out Day') which. stricted to the individual halls, compassionate manner with the show that they value human in the Hall Forums to be con­arose public interest can do which I believe will lessen the rights of all individuals taken life. ducted by Right to Life. Wemore harm than good. As a chance of "gay bashing" within into consideration. 
As a member of the Notre hope that these forums will

senior, I have never heard or the hall, and in tum allow this Charlie James Dame/Saint Mary's chapter of provide a healthy environmentrecall more "gay bashing" than · issue to have a fighting chance. Co-Chairman Right to Life, I have partici­for discussion and understand­during the weeks surrounding This letter was not "skirted" Hall President's Council pated in similar protests at the ing of this vitally important is­'Coming Out Day'. This, I be­by the Hall President's Council, Sept. 17, 1991 South Bend abortion clinic, in sue.
lieve, is what Mr. Yore tried to but actually was carried out in the annual rally in Washington, Mary Ann Tebben DC, and in other pro-life activi­Pasquerilla West ties. During a protest in South Sept. 13, 1991
Lyons Hall did not Support of 'Safe Havens' was trivialized
'push the issue aside' 
Dear Editor, that discussion be on-going Dear Editor: group politicized it; that is we VISion of inclusivity and 
Perhaps the HPC did among all the hall members, We are writing in response to have never discriminated welcome flows from a charita­"fumble the ball" on the 'Safe and voted to invite the author of your editorial and coverage of against someone because they ble commitment to justice and Haven' resolution at last 'Safe haven" resolution to speak the "Safe Haven" statements for are gay. Siegfried has never our statement was more about Tuesday evening's gathering. at the hall. As the week gay and lesbian students which selected residents by race, discrimination then about ho­
However, the Lyons Hall co­progressed, discussion hall councils are currently class, creed or sexual orienta­mosexuality. We are and al­presidents, Sarah Fitzpatrick continued. addressing. Your coverage of tion. The reason why we were ways hope to be a welcoming and Jennifer Schuster, took the Hopefully, other halls have the issue not only trivialized able to make a "quick" decision community of faith. issue seriously as they been as serious in their Siegfried's support of the on the statement is because presented it to fifty of the invitations to discuss the issue. statement but it also created there was no controversy. Sr. Maureen Minihane, C.S.C women at the Lyons Hall Lyons has not "pushed the issue confusion as to exactly what We understand the difference Rector Council. aside" was being endorsed. between endorsing sexual activ­Ms. Mary Yu 
The co-presidents, along Kathleen Beatty SSJ The statement which our Hall ity and simply accepting some­Assistant Rector with other members of Lyons Rector Council supported, albeit sym­one who is gay. Our support of Siegfried Hall Hall, discussed some issues Lyons Hall bolic, simply restates a reality the "Safe Haven" statement was Sept. 12, 1991 regarding Safe Haven, decided Sept. 16, 1991 which existed before any one an embrace of the latter. Our .. 
DOONESBURY 
itlf!U,Ha<& 
>tXRTIMING 
A PAI<TY~ 
~NOTH­
OH,NO.., Yl2MINO
couwae
ING/ IJ/151-1 
CFF, MAN. 
I IF ICOM8
MeWQ<. ... 
toOKSUI<e 
IN FORA\ 9fe'5 HAV!t-13 J AA!tb, A fW<TY. ; MAN~ 
~\~r; \~ 
Jllllll~~ 
' ~~ 
YOU IXJN'TUJMT 70, RAY. 
IT'~ THAT l¥/MN MIUTAR.Y 
FAM!t.-Y 5UPPrRT GRa.JP1 
I 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It homosexuality were the normal way, God would have made Adam and Bruce.' 
Anita Bryant 
We rely on submissions. Mail them to: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND.IN 46556 

Accent 
Tuesday, September 17, 1991 page 11 


By JOHN O'BRIEN the weather forecast from a Accent Editor teleprompter. As they do that, they have to put ·nob. I can't see you anymore ... I those little rain, sun, snow and other
Lights, Camera,
love another man ... Sally says. wiping assorted weather symbols on a large the tears away from her eyes. magnetic map. Once again, they 
·nut Sally. what about the receive a videocassette of their children?· Bob forces out with a performance. whimper. • Movie Theater-A 15-20 seat 
·1 don't know ... Sally says abruptly. theater will be set up for students to 
·nut I do know that I'm late for Orgo... preview upcoming films from ·Huh?. Bob says. Columbia Pictures and and Tri-Star This scene, or one much like it, will pictures. Free popcorn will also be 
be developing on the fields near available . Stepan Center this Thursday and • Comedy Quiz-Students will be Friday. able to win prizes by answering 
No, "Sally" and "Bob" are not some questions based on CBS programming. 

demented pre-med students having a public fight. They're students acting out a scene (rom CBS' "The Young and the Restless," and the CBS cameras are there to film the action. 
This whole scenario is part of the "CBS College Tour," a national tour of college campuses in order to promote CBS programming. 
The tour is hitting 53 colleges and universities across the U.S., and it will be at Notre Dame on this Thursday and Friday. 
The tour is being brought to Notre Dame with the help of the Office of Student Activities. The event is a promotion for CBS, but it also should be a lot of fun for students, said Kelly McCrystal, a student programmer for Student Activities. 
"It's designed for students, but anyone can come to it," she said, acknowledging the fact the the campus will be abuzz with pre­Michigan State activities. 
The events will run from noon to 6 
p.m. on Thursday and from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Friday, McCrystal said. The crew then has to pack up and move on to Northwestern University and then on to 46 more schools. 

Students at all of these schools will try something other than acting in a have the opportunity to act out a scene soap opera: like "Bob" and "Sally" did, and will • Broadcast Booth-Designed to promote CBS Sports, two students provide their own play-by-play to a famous sporting event and receive a videocassette of their performances. 

'Commitments' entertains with quality music 

By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Film Critic 
After seeing a movie such as 

"The Commitments," the dis­
criminating filmgoer asks the 
question: is it fair to judge this 
movie on a par with other 
movies? The problem lies in 
this movie's classification. 
Like "This is Spinal Tap," 

"The Commitments" is a movie 
that frustrates the critic's desire 
to define it. 
Faced with such a dilemma, the obvious choice is to put this film on its own plane, and not measure it against conventional standards. 
This exemption from close scrutiny is exactly what is needed for "The Commitments" to be enjoyed. The actors in this movie, all genuine, struggling Irish musicians, are not actors in the traditional sense of the word. 
They were chosen for their musical talent and stage presence rather than acting ability. It is often true that out­standing performers in music can act very well, and the ac­tors in "The Commitments" ac­quitted themselves admirably. 
However, if you are looking for truly high-quality acting you will not find it in this mm. 
On the other hand, that's not the reason "The Commitments" 
Till Collllibl..ll 
Produced by Roger Randall­Cutler and Lynda Myles Directed by Alan Parker Now showing at University Park 
* * * * 1/2 
(out of five) 
should be seen. It's like asking an artist to cook you a gourmet meal -he or she might very well be able to do it, but it is not the person's life work. 
jy"The Commitments" is a movie about musicians and what they make-music. 
And if you are looking for great music you will find it. These young men and women band together for the unlikely purpose of bringing soul music to Dublin. Their flyers bill them as "The Saviours of Soul." Many of the band members knew little or nothing about soul before joining the band. 
The only thing that binds them together is their talent and love of music, the same things that eventually cause a division between them. 
Their inspiration and founder 
• Basketball-Student players 
. compete against the clock while trying to hit shots from five marked areas. 
• Family Feud-A mini-set of the famed television show will allow two groups of students to play against each · other. 
The questions will be based on a survey of 100 college students. Organizers did not say if contestants have to kiss Richard Dawson or not. 
• Price is Right-Yet another recreation of a CBS game show, students can win prizes by playing the favorite game of smart shoppers. One note: Odds are Bob Barker will not be there. 
All of these events are free, McCrystal said. 
In addition, students will be eligible for giveaways ranging from free airline tickets to $500 scholarships. Also, there will be chances to enter several national sweepstakes, McCrystal said. 
The prizes in these sweepstakes include movie jackets, IBM computers and a Mazda MX-3 sports car. 
For all of the budding thespians on hand, there is also the chance to win a special prize: a walk-on role in either a CBS prime-time show or soap opera. 
• Weather Booth-As a plug for the Who knows? With the help of CBS, "Sally" and "Bob" might get lucky and
local CBS affiliate (in this case WSBT­TV, channel 22), students get to give hit the big time. 
is their manager, Jimmy of unemployed Irish kids. Rabbitte, played brilliantly by Almost ·single-handedly he Robert Arkins, who has a vision glues the band together for a of his soul band emerging out of few moments of really great rreland to become music. The viewer is convinced internationally famous. that without Jimmy's drive the 
Jimmy, a handsome, earnest band would have never had its young fellow, is really the only first gig. character in the movie. His character is fully developed The combination of Jimmy's and his presence is felt even heroic efforts and likeable during the musical segments character, and the excellent when he is not on the screen. quality of "The Commitment's" 
His charm lies in his renditions of old soul hits, dedication and vision to create makes this movie highly enter­a real soul band out of a group taining. 
It is a series of thoroughly enjoyable concert scenes, sprinkled across the de­velopment of Jimmy's appealing character. 
Leaving aside the theatrical conventions of most movies, this musicaVmovie leaves the viewer wrapped up in the music and enamored with Jimmy. 
I don't know if I could call this a great film, or even a great story, but it is, in every sense of the word, great cin­ema. 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
The Observer accepts classified& wery business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar Colega Center. Deadline lor next-day dasdiedl il 3p.m. AU classiliads
Classifieds 
must ba prepaid. The charge ill 2 cants per characler per day, including all spaoas. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS GHEAP!IIIIIIIII 
25% off list price 
10..5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books comer of ND 
ave & Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Fund raising I 50% profit for your 
organization; clubs, charities, ect. 
Five different programs available. 
Call Nancy at 232-8242 
Notre Dame Video 
"NEW MOVIES" 
-Awakenings 
-Dances With Wolves 
-Edward Scissorhands 
-New Jack City 
-Home Alone 
••special Membership Rates•• -Basement of the Stud. Center 4:00-7:00 p.m. 7DAYSA WEEK 
Typing 
Fast, Professional 
2n-7406 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST KEYS, LOST KEYS. I LOST 
4 KEYS ON A NIKE KEY CHAIN. 
PLEASE CALL 277-9468, LEAVE 
MESSAGE . THANKS. 
FOUND: One man's watch 
on lawn in front of Keenan­
Stanford. Please call X2722 
to claim. 
LOST: SILVER FILIGREE PEN WITH MY NAME CARVED ON IT­LEIS ROBBINS. I'VE HAD IT FOR 13 YEARS AND IT MEANS A LOT TO ME. I LOST IT IN THE BOOKSTORE. PLEASE CALL 273­0703. 
FOUND: Picture of a navy man (one not in NO NROTC) found by infirmary. If yours, give Jeni a call at x4209. 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET LAST MON. NIGHT PLEASE CALL ED OR STEVE AT X3402 REWARD! 
LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE RETL!RN. 
Call Dan @271-9239 
found: intermediate accounting book. 277-9468 
FOUND: RELIGIOUS MEDAL. CALL 289-5311 ANTHONY 
LOST:Silver claddagh ring with green marble heart. Left in Theodore's bathroom during Drovers concert around 9:00. Extreme sentimental value. Please call x4231 if found. Ask for Erin. 
WANTED 
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE!! Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote the country's most successful SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­Campus Programs 1-800-327 ·6013. 
DRUMSII You got 'em, we want 'em. Call Joe at 271-1211 or Jason at 287-881 8. 
NEED 6 GA'S FOR PITISBURGH RICH RELATIVES WILL PAY HIGH PRICE!!!! CALL CHUCK -2226 
$350.001 DAY Processing PHONE ORDERSI PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 
Do you play bass guitar? If so, we need you. A few ND students are forming a band. Call Jason at 287­
8818. 
Need Bassist, Drummer, and 
Keyboardist. 
Contact: Wheels 3131 or 
Hoof4788 
Authentic Classical Architect 
to design sacred building in 
Chicago. NO STEEL (less is a 
Bore) Watercolor Renderings 
a MUST! 233-3003 WANTED: Off-campus roommate. 
Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. 
Wanted: FACULTY ADVISOR for presently forming UNO WATERSKI CLUB call Chris@X2123 
NEED RIDE TO DUBUQUE, lA 
OCT 4-6-WILL HELP WITH GAS 
X2819 
FOR RENT 
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 1g-color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13M color TV, two semesters only $69.95. VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
21 9-291-71 53 
BED&BREAKFAST FOR NO/ST. 
MARY'S FAMILIES. 2 
BEDROOMS, PRIVATE BATH. 
TEN MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 
SAFEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN 
AREA. 234-2626 
House for Rent 
$150/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 
8am-4pm. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Shr 2 BR Hse w/lib, quiet, grad M Lg Kit, wshr/dry, gar, AC, plenty storg. $250, shr utils Avl Oct 1 Jeff 288­3878 
FOR SALE 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, doseout. T­Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
LAPTOP COMPUTER 
Zenith 181, dual3.5 drives 
IBM P.C. compatible 
DOS, in carton, rarely used. 
Call 272-3255 
Racing bike in excellent condition. Many accesories. Call #371 8. 
ATTENTION: BANDS Ill! Quality PA system 4-sale VERY REASONABLE!! Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064 
Cubs vs Phillies tix for sale Sept 26 277-8790 Brent 
Round Trip ticket to ATLANTA good until Christmas 
McPius External Drive BOOk lmagewriter 11-$700 Call 273-1934 
Walk to NO from beautiful contemporary. 11 years NEW. 3 BR, 2 1/2 bath, 2300 sq. ft. Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or Cressy & Everett BH & G. 233­6141. 
United Air plane coupon value$106; 
Sale: $60 271-8401 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA OR STD TIXS All HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 
NEED 2GA OR 1STDI1GA FOR USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need I.U. and all other tickets 
call Bill@ X1747 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDMSU TIX Angie x2172 
Help Ill 
My parents are coming out to celebrate my 21st birthday on­Saturday the 21st. They need 2 MSU GA's. Otherwise it won, be a golden birthday. 
Call Julie at x1342 
I have $$$$$ for your Mich St 
GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or 
4208. 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR 
NAVY GAME. CALL MARK 
CQ.LECT AT 1-407-886-5161. 

I NEED 8 Pm & 4 TENN. TIX!! CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER WILL BE REFUSED!!! 
NEED 2 STUDAND3 GA'S FOR MSUI KATE 4998. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC ON 10/26. CALLJIM AT 818-789­0654. 
Please help desperate alumni! Need 2 Mich St. GA's! Call x4189 
I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS ADDED BONUS CHRIS X3414 or 3410 
NEED 2-3 MSU GAs STEVE #1083 
HELP N.Y. ALUMNI-need MSU tix. please call x1676 
Need 2 GA's for MSU will pay$$$ caiiX1562 
I HAVE PURDUE TIX CALL JIM X2341 
NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's CALL JOE X2341 
Need 2 stud tix to MICH. ST!II Call Pete x1791. 
LUSTED AFTER: 2 or 3 Tennessee studs. Call George at x1672. 
NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. CALL JOHN 312-951-4167 DAYS, OR 312-929-9411 EVENINGS. 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S CALLX3806 
·DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S 1 MSU 2 PITT 
PLEASE HELP! KAREN X4918 

I DESPERATELY NEED20R 3 GA'S FOR PITI GAME Ill X 1684 
WANTED: 3 Pm GA's for family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! HELP ME I Dan x2349 
Need to sell 4 Michigan State GA's-call Kathryn-x2808 
Need to sell 2 Mich. State GA's-call Laurie-x2867 
Need 6 GAs for Michigan State. Let's make a deal. Call Mike at 283­1305 
Air Force GA's, X1 502 
Need 3 Mich St GAs call Jim 232-3296 
Need stud & GAs for most home games. x4282 
NEEDED: 2 GA's FOR EITHER PITT, USC or NAVY. CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks! 
-USC TROJANS­-~ SIX g.a.'s ­CALL R 0 B at x1845 
I need 2-3 Michigan St. GA's call Kathleen @ X4082. 
Need 6 USC GA's and 3 Tennessee Ga's. Call #3718 
Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade for 2 Pin GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. 
I Still Need MSU Stud Tickets Buy or Trade, Steve 2n-4749 
I NEED 2 USC GAs and will pay. Call DAVE at X1859 
Needed: 

Mich. St./USC GA's Joel1245 
ALL tickets FOR SALE. Call with offer. x4229 
NEED 1 MICH ST STUD TICKET CALL MIKE 272-7581 
WILL TRADE 2 GA's ANY HOME GAME FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097 
Need 1 MICH ST GA Jackie 277-3610 
NEED2USC GAs caU 234-7740 
FOR SALE: 4 MICH ST. GA 
BEST OFFER 
TOM x1781 
Help! I need 4 Michigan State 
G.A.'s. Please call Andrew@ 233­
9588. 
Needed: 1 GA for Michigan State. 
Call Sheila 283-4842. 
Need 2 TennGA, will trade for 2 
MSU, Pitt or USC GAs. 
Call Nick 239-7733 
Please. I would like tickets to Mich. 
St. and USC. If you can help call 
Ed 1384 
NAME YOUR PRICE! WEALTHY RELATIVE WILL PAY $$$FOR 2 MSU GA TICKETS!!! CALL SHANA, 234-1752!!1 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 
NEED M.ST. TIX 
NEEDPITITIX 
213-470...4419 
Lv. Mssg. 
Need Mich St. and USC GAs 
call Phil at x2096 
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS 
RANDY 800-323-7687 
Have 2 Pin GA's trade for MSU 
GA's. 717-757-1934. 
NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA'S. CALL 
MIKE X2322 
NO '82/SMC '83 grads from PA 
to Calif. returning for reunion. 
We need GA's for USC! Please 
help us!!! Call my little sister, 
AMY, at X2875. THANKS! 
NEEDED! Mich.St. tix-2 ga 1 stud. 
Call Scon •2373 
HELP! Four Persian Gulf War Vets missed last ND season coming for Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven #2201 
Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn. GA's Make my life call Dave #2201 
Michigan St GA's NEEDED! Call Sharon 284-5146 
I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY 
PLEASE HELP MEl x4312 John 
I need 2 MSU GA's. 
Call 283-2067. 
2 USC GA's Needed Call Patrick@ 271-1573 
HELP!! NEED 2 Pm GA'S FOR 
PARENTS CALL TIM X4063 
My dad's rich. 
Sell me an MSU GA. Mickey, x1846 
Will trade awsome Mich. St. 
G.A.'s for USC G.A.'s #1798 
NEEDED:1 TENN STUD TIX-Iife depends on it.Price no object.Call 
Brian x3083 
I need 2 Mich. State tix. Call Erin X2590 if you can help. 
I HAVE 2 GA 'S FOR MICH ST 
CHRIS X1699 
HELP I I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH CALL 3353 ASK FOR SCOTI
...................... 
HAVE 4 MSU GA's, want to trade for 2 Pin and 2 USC GA's. X1236. 
I need 2 GA's for either USC or Pin. X2479 
HAVE M.S.U. GA's II 
FOR SELL OR WILL TRADE 
FOR GA's TO USC OR TENN. 
283-1167 
I NEED MICH. ST. GA'S CALL MIKE@ X1862 
i need 2 MICH. ST. GA's. Jeff x1791. 
I need 1-3 Mich St GA's, have $$, Amy x2558 
Needed: 2tickets for USC and 4 
for Tenn. Student or GAs. Gall Sue 
at 271-0053. 
Have 2 Navy GA's, will trade 
for 2 Mich St. GA's! Also need 
1 Mich St. stud 
Call Dan at 277-3203 
Need 5 MSU GAs!! Julie x1618 
Need 2 MICH ST. GA's to shame 
Mich St alums (Mom and Dad) 
Kent2n-1112 
Need 2 student tix or GA's for 
Michigan State and 2 GA's and 1 
student for Pin. Call284-3814 and 
leave your name, number and the 
price. 
HELPI!!I!!I!III 
I really need 3 Michigan St. 
GA's. Will pay BIG bucks! 
Call X4909-Joy 
SELLING TICKETS ALL GAMES. 
LUIS 273-1528 
Need 
4 Pin 
2USC 
GAs 
will 
TRADE 
2 NavyGA 
1 Tenn St 
x2204 
NEEDED: One GA for NAVY. Call : Lisa at x4832 
NEED 4 TENNGA'S. 288-9621 
HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENT 
TIX, AND $$$$$ TO TRADE. 
I have four Purdue tickets! 
Best offer takes them I 
call Chris@ X2123 
NEED 2-5 MSU GA's. 
PLEASE CALL 287-3587. 
Need tickets to Michigan 
State. Call Ann #4011 
Need several Michigan State 
G.A.'s; call x2789 
Have MSU Stud for Sale-Chris x1252 
Need 3 STATE GAs or STUDS BADLYx3673 
AN HONEST FAN WITH A LARGE FAMILY NEEDS MSU AG'S. WE USE ANY WE BUY-GAURANTEED JEFF 272-9602 
I Have 2 NAVY GA's and would like to trade for 2 PITT GA's Chris x1998 
I r;eed 2 GA tickets to the Michigan state game. Call 277-8962 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor and teacher, longing to share our love with newborn. We'll give your baby a caring, warm and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect (212) 874-3537. 
$50 FREE merchandise; room decor, Xmas gif1s, etc. Host a home/dorm or catalog party with Decor and More. Call Nancy at 232-8242. 
If you taped PRIME TIME last Thursday evening, please call Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 pm or 272-3753 after 5. 
HERE THEY ARE, the top ????quotes of the Michigan blowout, featuring marge, katey, karen, lush, mo, joyful, mer, coli, the twins, kirsten, christine and yours truly: 
•Mif 
you know them, dick them, if they're cute, stop" 

•"Am 
I STILL wet?M 

•"Remember 
what Jov savs: If vou 


don't come with an invitation, don't come at air 
•MShe's 
a woman who's blown" 

•MS;op 
laughing. Am I still wet?M 


·-It was a riot. I mean, it was really arior 
•"Karma karma karma 
chameleon ..... • ·-I'm nowing like a river"' •-rhanks, now I am too• 
•"For 
the last time, am I STILL wet?" 

•"We 
said we went to ND. We didn't know if she'd know the difference­


•"GO D ....GO D ....GO D (for Karen especially. ) 
•-rhank god, I'm DRY" 
Due to space limitations, the list 
must end even though the fun didn't. Until Purdue..... love, beef and bugles, MONY JOY on men: -If you don't come with an invitation, don't come at aiiM 
JEN on men: -Why live together when you can spend the night?" 
MONY on men: -The last time I saw you, you were in your underwear" 
INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP!! Come join us! BIBLE STUDY every Tuesday 7:3Q.. 
9:00 in Stanford basement lounge; PRAYER MEETINGS every Thursday 7:3Q-8:00 in Stanford­Keenan ChapeL For more info: Sean 277-4436 or Kevin x1417 
Dear Mojo Risin', 
Happy Belated 21 st!!!!l! You have one free massage COMING your way-or should we say OUR way???? 
We love you, Colette (90"k) and Aimee (10%) 
Are you going to PURDUE? I need a ride. Beth x4341 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, TODD I HOPE IT'S THE BEST, BUT TAKE IT EASY! LOVE YA, "WANDERER" 
TRADE TRADE TRADE HAVE: 2 MICH. ST. GAs NEED: 2 USC GAs 
or 2NAVYGAs Call Kelley x4836 
hey nif 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
"ARTS AND LETIERS BUSINESS SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TOMORROW 6:30P.M., 124 HAYES-HEALY. ALL INVITE~. 
BACK-UP SINGER NEEDED for working campus band Call J.P. 271-0742. 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 
Happy 21st Absterl!! 
NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED 2NAVY GA'S CALL KRIS@ x3474!!!!!!!1!11!1!!!!111! 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Give a big, wet, smootch to Diane Abbey-it's her 21st!!! Happy b-day, Oil We love you! -Nelldog, Sess, and Gab 
I -ARTS AND LETIERS BUSINESS SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TOMORROW 6:30 P.M. 124 HAYES.HEALY. ALL INVITE~. 
Hey NO! Wish your favorite southem belle, Diane Abbey, a happy 21st! 
Michigan State -2 rooms at Marriott, Sept. 20 &21. 217-546­0981. 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
Some thoughts from Michigan: 
-"I was onlv doina 80 officer. The speed limit is only 65 son" --rwo American legends: Leonard Bernstein and Jim MorrisonM --rhe sky is blue, but it's the wrong shade of blue" -Who is Paul Harvey and why are we listening to him?" -"Hey, this is the men's room. Can I have some privacy here?" -"GO SEMINOLESr -"lightning NEVER strikes twice" -"Let's win one for the Gibber"' --rhis is the worst day of my entire life" --rhat was three the hard way­ALSO, it is only 8 days until Perry's birthday, and 1 1 until his birthday extravaganza. Ladies, start getting ready-he is! (ps, you better show up P.) 
see Class page 4 
• 


Tuesday, September 17, 1991 page 13
SCOREBOARD 
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS LEAGUE LEADERS 
AMERICAN lEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE &at Dlvlalon G AB R H Pet. 
W l Pet GB L10 Streak Home Awey Franco Tex 128 522 95 178 .341 Toronto 81 63 .563 z-7-3 Lost 1 42-33 39-30 Boggs Bsn 133 506 89 168 .332 Boston 77 .535 z-8-2 lost 1 39-35 Molftor Mil 138 582 191 .328
67 4 38-32 115 75 68 .524 5112 4·6 lost 1 44-26 31-42
Detroit Thomas Chi 141 503 95 164 .326 
1991 REC.va OPP.

Milwaukee 68 .479 z-4-6 Won 2 38-34 Palmelro Tex 141 102 184 .326
74 12 30-40 565 
RECORD PTS. PVS. TOP 25 REC. EXTRA POINTS 

82 19 112 GrlffeyJr Sea 156 .325
New York 61 .427 1-9 lost 2 34-39 27-43 134 480 65 Baltimore 61 83 .424 20 z-7-3 Won 2 30-45 31-38 Puckett Min 138 555 85 180 .324 
Florida St. (47) 3-0-0 1,436 1 1-0-0 2-3-0 Longest win streak at 9 

Cleveland 47 95 .331 33 3-7 lost 1 23-46 24-49 Tartabull KC 116 434 72 140 .323 CRipken Bn 144 573 90 185 .323 
Miami (8) 2-0-0 1,345 2 1-0-0 2-0-0 Outscored opp. 71-13

Weat Dlvlalon Sierra Tex 142 589 102 183 .311 W l Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away 
Michigan (1) 2-0-0 1,329 3 1-0-0 1-2-0 Howard, Heisman favorite 

Minnesota 87 58 .600 z-S.. Won 1 46-26 41-32 RUNS-Molltor, Milwaukee, 115; Canseco, Chicago 79 66 .545 8 z-S.. Won 1 40-29 39-37 Oakland, 105; Palmeiro, Texas, 102; Sierra, Texas, 
Washington ( 1) 1-0-0 1 ,270 4 0-0-0 0-1-0 D faces top NCAA offense 

Texas 76 66 .535 9112 6-4 Won 2 41-29 102; White, Toronto, 99; Thomas. Chicago, 95;
35-37 Oakland 76 68 .528 10 112 z-5-5 Won 1 41-30 35-38 Franco, Texas, 95. 
Florida ( 1) 2-0-0 1, 250 6 1-0-0 1-1-0 Matthews-Rhett too much! 

Seattle 72 .507 Z-5-5 2 RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 123; Canseco. Oakland,
70 13 112 Won 39-29 33-41 111; Thomas, Chicago, 103; Sierra, Taxas.103;
Kansas City 72 71 .503 14 4-6 lost 3 35-39 37-32 California 71 .497 Z-6-4 1 35-33 Carter, Toronto, 101; CRipken, Baltimore, 98; 
Tennessee 2-0-0 1,107 11 1-0-0 2-1-0 Host Miss. St. and Auburn

72 15 lost 36-39 JuGonzalez, Texas, 95. 
Oklahoma 1-0-0 1,047 9 0-0-0 0-0-0 Kicking game is weak spot 

NATIONAL lEAGUE HITS-Molitor, Milwaukee. 191; CRipken, Eaat Dlvtalon Baltimore, 185; Palmelro. Texas, 184; Sierra, 
1-0-0 1 ,028 8 0-0-0

W l Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away Texas, 183; Puckett, Minnesota, 180; Franco, Pittsburgh 86 58 .597 5-5 Won 1 42-27 44-31 Texas. 178; Sax. New York, 171. 
2-0-0 899 13 0-0-0

St. louis 76 67 .531 9112 5-5 Won 3 45-29 31-38 HOME RUNS-Fielder. Detroit, 42; Canseco, Chicago 70 74 .486 16 z-3-7 lost 2 42-33 28-41 Oakland, 41; Carter, Toronto, 33; Thomas, 
2-0-0 864 14 0-0-0

New York 69 74 .483 16 112 4-6 Lost 2 34-36 35-38 Chicago. 30; CRipken. Baltimore. 29; Tartabull. Philadelphia 67 77 .465 19 3-7 lost 1 40-34 27-43 
Kansas City, 28; CDavis. Minnesota, 28. 
1-1-0 856 7 0-1-0

Montreal 63 79 .444 22 Z-8-2 Won 1 34-35 29-44 
Weat Dlvlalon NATIONAL lEAGUE 2-1-0 715 5 1-0-0 1-2-0 10 after 57.5­G AB R H Pet.
W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 
Morris Cin 121 426 68 138 .324 2-0-0 711 15 0-0-0 1-1-0 Redshirt frosh came thru

Atlanta 82 61 .573 z-9-1 Won 2 45-30 37-31 Los Angeles 81 63 .563 1 112 6-4 lost 2 44-24 37-39 
TGwynn SO 134 530 69 168 .317 Pendleton All 135 511 86 161 .315 2-0-0 638 23 1-0-0 3-0-0 Snaps Buffs 11-win streak 

San Diego 73 71 .507 9112 z-7-3 lost 1 34-35 39-36 Cincinnati 70 73 .490 12 4-6 Won 1 38-37 32-36 Jose Stl 137 507 61 158 .312 McGee SF 113 424 58 132 .311 1-0-0 611 20 0-0-0 0-1-0 Hill a record 212 yards 
San Francisco 65 78 .455 17 3-7 Won 1 36-35 29-43 Houston 58 85 .406 24 z-3-7 lost 1 34·38 24-47 Bonilla Pit 140 524 90 161 .307 z-denotes first game was a win. WCiark SF 133 508 75 154 .303 2-0-0 526 19 0-0-0 2-1-0 6-0 vs. Washington St. Biggio Hou 133 478 72 144 .301 AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Sabo Cin 136 514 81 154 .300 1-1-0 491 17 0-1-0 1-3-0 Shawn Jones 315 total yds Mondey'a Gamea Monday'a Gamea Butler LA 143 548 102 164 .299 late Geme Not Included late Gamea Not Included RUNS-Butler. Los Angeles, 102; Johnson. 2-0-0 404 22 0-0-0 2-0-0 Host high-scoring Gators Minnesota 9, Kansas Chy 0 St. Louis 3, Philade~hia o New York, 99; Sandberg, Chi~go, 94; Bonilla, Milwaukee 5, New York 4 Pittsburgh 5, Chicago 4 PKtllburgh, 90; Gant. Atlanta, 88; JBell, Pittsburgh, 1-1-0 365 12 0-1-0 2-1-0 Beat Gophers 38-6 in 1 Baltimore 9, Boston 2 Houston at San Diego, (n) 87; Pendleton, Atlanta. 86. Toronto at Seattle, (n) A!lanta at San Francisco, (n) RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, 105; Johnson, 3-0-0 350 24 0-0-0 3-1-0 Has allowed 8 pts. a game Only games scheduled Cmcmnati at Los Angeles. (n) New York, 103; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 99; Dawson. Tueaday'a Garnea Only games scheduled Chicago, 97; McGriff, San Diego, 93; Gant, Atlanta, 1-1-0 336 10 0-1-0 2-1-0 First meetng with lllini Milwaukee at New York Tueadey'a Garnea 91; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 91. Ba~imore at Boston Montreal at New York, doubleheader HITS-TGwynn, San Diego. 168; Butler. Los 1-1-0 309 1-0-0 2-2-0 Oliver 3 INTs for Trojans Detroit at Cleveland St. louis at Phllade~hia Angeles, 164; BonHia, Pittsburgh. 161; Pendleton. 
Oakland at Chicago Chicago at Pittsburgh Atlanta. 161; Jose, St. Louis, 158; Sandberg, 3-0-0 302 25 1-0-0 0-3-0 First shutout since 1979 Kansas Cky at Minnesota Houston at San Diego Chicago. 157; GBell. Chicago, 155. Cal~ornia at Texas Cincinnati at Los Angeles 
HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York. 34; 2-0-0 119 o-o-o 1-2-0 last rank: Oct. 31, 19n 

Toronto at Seattle Atlanta at San Francisco 
MaWilliams, San Francisco, 30; Gant, Atlanta, 29; Dawson, Chicago, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; 2-0-0 116 0-0-0 0-2-0 Only 2-5 at Tuscaloosa McGriff, San Diego, 27; Kvt.Aitchell, San Francisco,

NFL STANDINGS 
27. 

AMEmCAN CONFERENCE Sundey'a Game• 
Eaat 
Detroit 17, Miarri 13 
NFL BOX 
W l T Pet PF PA 

Pittsburgh 20. New England 6 PENNANT RACES Buffalo 3 0 0 1.000 110 85 
Chicago 20, New York Giants 17 Kana.. City 0 7 0 0 7 Miami 1 2 0 .333 6t 58 
Philadelphia 24. Dallas 0 Houaton 7 0 7 3 17 N England 1 2 0 .333 22 47 
Washington 34, Phoenix 0 
NATIONAl LEAGUE

NY Jets 1 2 0 .333 49 56 
Green Bay 15, Tarrpa Bay 13 AMERICAN LEAGUE Flret Quarter
Eeat Diviaionlndnplis 0 3 0 .000 13 49 

Minnesota 17, San Francisco 14 E18t Dlvialon Hou-Pinken 1 run (Howfield kick). t 1 :01. 
W L Pet. GB 

Cleveland 14, Cincinnati t3 W L Pet. GB Second Ouarter
Pittsburgh 86 58 .597

Centrel 
Denver 16, Seattle 10 Toronto 81 63 .563 KC-Okoye 2 run (lowery kick), 14:33.
St. Louis 76 67 .531 9 112Houston 3 0 0 1.000 94 3t 

Atlanta 13, San Diego 10 Boston 77 67 .535 4 Third Ouarter 
Pttsburgh 2 1 0 .667 80 78 
Buffalo 23, New York Jets 20 Detroit 75 68 .524 5 112 Hou-Jeffires 4 pass from Moon (Howlield kick), 
Remeinlng GameaCleveland 2 1 0 .667 48 39 

los Angeles Raiders 16, Indianapolis 0 14:51.
PITTSBURGH (18)-Home (12): Sept. 17,Cincnnati 0 3 0 .000 34 89 

New Orleans 24, los Angeles Rams 7 Remaining Game• Fourth Quarter
Chicago; Sept. 18-19, St. Louis; Sept. 20-22, TORONTO (18)-Home (6): Sept. 27-29, Hou-FG Howfield 23.
PhHade~hia; Sept. 30-Qct. 1-2. New York; Oct. 4-6,Weal 

Mondey'a Game Minnesota: Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2. California Away
Montreal. Away (6): Sept. 24-26. New York; Sept. 
Denver 2 1 0 .667 74 40 
Houston 17, Kansas City 7 (12): Sept. 16-18, Seattle; Sept. 20-22. Oakland;
27-29, Montreal.
LA Raidrs 2 1 0 .667 49 60 TRANSACTIONS 
Sept. 23-25. California; Oct. 4-6, Minnesota 
ST. lOUIS (19) -Home (7): Sept. 23 (DH)-25,

Kar1.City t 2 0 .333 31 37 BOSTON (18)-Home (11): Sept. 17-18,
Montreal; Sept. 27-29. Away (12): Sept. 17, BASEBALLSeanle 1 2 0 .333 54 56 Baltimore; S~. 20-22. New York; Oct. 1-3. Detroit; National LeaguePhiladelphia; Sept. 18-19, Plnsburgh; Sept. 20·22,San Diego 0 3 0 .000 44 73 Oct. 4-6, Milwaukee. Away (7): Sept. 23-25, 
COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE-SuspendedBaltimore; Sept. 27-30, Milwaukee.

New York; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, Montreal; Oct. 4·6, Atlanta Braves outfielder Otis Nixon for 60 days lorChicago.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE DETROIT (19)-Home (11): Sept. 20-22, violating the terms of his drug-abuse after-careEaat Milwaukee; Sept. 23-26, Cleveland; Sept. 27-30, 
Sundey, Sept. 22 West Dh1ialon program.
W L T Pet PF PA 
Baltimore. Away (8): Sept. 17-18, Cleveland; Oct. 

Cleveland at New York Giants, 1 p.m. Nl-Suspended Cincinnati Reds pitcher Norm
W L Pet. GB

Washingtn 3 0 0 1.000 112 31 
1-3, Boston; Oct. 4-6, Bakimore. Phila 2 1 0 .667 54 29 
Detroit at Indianapolis, 1. p.m. Atlanta 82 61 .573 Charlton seven days and lined him $1 ,000 lor 
Green Bay at Miarri. 1 p.m. Los Angeles 81 63 .563 1 112 throwing at los Angeles Dodgers catcher MikePhoenix 2 1 0 .667 50 58 
Weat Divlalon Dallas 1 2 0 .333 57 71 
Washington at Cincinnati. 1 p.m. Sciascia In a Sept. 9 game and saying afterwards 
W L Pet. GB

Houston at New England, 1 p.m. Remaining Gamea he might try to hit him again. 
NY Giants 1 2 0 .333 46 53 Minnesota 87 58 .600
los Angeles Raiders at Atlanta, 1 p.m. ATLANTA (19)-Home (6): Sept. 24·26, Chicago 79 66 .545 8
Minnesota at New Orleans. 1 p.m. Cincinnati; Oct. 4-6, Houston. Away (13): Sept. 1&-BASKETBAll
Central 
Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 17, San Francisco; Sept. 18-19, San Diego; Sept. Natlonel Buketball A..oclatlon
Chicago 3 0 0 t.OOO 51 43 
Remaining Gemea

San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m. 20-22, los Angeles; Sept. 27-29, Houston; Sept. LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Signed Ed Horton,Detroit 2 1 0 .667 40 72 MINNESOTA (17)-Home (10): Sept. 17-18,
los Angeles Rams at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 30-Dct. 1·2, Cincinnati. forward.
Minnesota 2 1 0 .667 43 43 Kansas Chy; Sept. 20-22, Texas; Sept. 24-25, 
Seanle at Kansas Chy, 4 p.m. Continental Baaketbell Aaaocletlon
lOS ANGELES (18)-Home (13): Sept. 16­Green Bay 1 2 0 .333 32 56 Chicago; Oct. 4-6, Toronto. Away (7): Sept. 27-29, 

Buffalo at Tampa Bay, 4 p.m. RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Jackie Jones. 
17, Cincinnati; Sept. 18·19, Houston; Sept. 20-22,TaJ'flla Bay 0 3 0 .000 46 52 Toronto; Sept. 30-0a. 1·3, Chicago. 
Dallas at Phoenix, 8 p.m. Atlanta; Sept. 27·29. San Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. forward. 
CHICAGO (17)-Home (12): Sept. 17-18, TAl-CITY CHINOOK-Traded James Bradley,t-2. San Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24-25. San Diego;Weat Oakland; Sept. 20-22, California; Sept. 27·29. guard, to the Columbus Horizon for a 1992 third·

Mondey, Sept. 23 Oct. 4-6, San Francisco.
NewOrlns 3 0 0 1.000 68 41 Seanle; Sept. 30-Qd. 1·3, Minnesota. Away (5): round draft pick. 
New York Jets at Chicago. 9 p.m. 

Atlanta 1 2 0 .333 35 44 
Sept. 24-25. Minnesota; Oct. 4-6, Seattle. LA Rams 1 2 0 .333 40 61 I. 
FOOTBALL

San Fran 1 2 0 .333 62 47 National Football Leegue 
DALLAS COWBOYS-Traded Jesse Solomon. linebacker, to the New England Patriots lor an undisclosed 1992 draft pick. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTs-Waived Bryan Wagner, punter. 

Baxter 
NEW YORK JETS-Signed Leroy Kinard, running back, to the practice squad. Waived James Bradley, wide receiver, from the practice squad. 
HOCKEY National Hockey Leegue

Come Talk to Us 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Signed Martin 
( .-, 
Lapointe. right wing. to a four-year contract. LOS ANGELES KINGS-Sent Marc Saumier, center; Andre Boullane and Wayne Marion,
Careers In: 
goa~enders; Jerome Bechard, Darryl Williams. Kevin While. Tim Bres~n. Kevin Heise. Bob Berg, Ross WHson and Jim Ballantine. forwards; and Kris 

• Marketing 
Miller, Mike Ruark, Trevor Pochiplnskl. Shawn Wheeler, Kevin MacDonald and Eric Ricard, 
• Accounting 
defensemen, to Phoenix of the International
• Operations 
Hockey league. ST. LOUIS BLUE5-Signed Garth Butcher, delenaaman. and Rich Sutter, right wing, to three­
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 


year contrails. and Bob Bassen, center, to a two­year contract. Returned Nathan Lafayette and Grayden Reid, centers; Kevin Malgunas, right wing; and Jason Brousseau. left wing, to their junior 
teama.

Tuesday, September 17,6:00-8:30 pm International Hockey League 
SAN DIEGO GULLS-Signed Keith Gratzky.

ACC -Monogram Room center. Sponsored by Finance Club SOCCER 
Major Soccer league BALTIMORE BLAST-Waived Hank Henry, goakeeper. SAN DIEGO SOCKEAS-Signed Was Wade, forward, to a one-year contract.
Tuesday, September 17, 7:00-9:00pm 
COlLEGE
Morris Inn -Notre Dame Room
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
BROOKLYN-Namad Ron Ratner and Gilbert Kreiss graduate assistant sports Information

Sponsored by Career and Placement Meet Baxter Night Joe men's graduate assistant
directors; lara basketball coach; and Stephanie Roberts women's 
Sponsored by Baxter 
voleyball coach. 

On Cll/lfllll tlt•vlllwlntl OCIDIIBr 211-80 
SETON HAll-Named Ed Lyons assistant baseball coach; Michelle Larson assistant softball

lnflbtlon.llg/Hfl /JIBII/1111 IBPIBIIDll' 28-24 
coach; Chris O'Donnell and Fred Woodruff assistant swimming coaches; and Vince Cartier

(JpM llg/HfliJatlltiB Dctob• 7-8 assistant track coach. WAGNER-Named Bill Cali assistant baseball coach. 


{ 
page 14 The Observer 
Braves lose tough one to Giants 
' SAN FRANCISCO -The firSt­place Atlanta Braves blew a three-run lead lead and lost 8-5 to the San Francisco Giants on a foggy Monday night in their first game without major-league stolen base leader Otis Nixon. ­Playing without Nixon, who· was suspended for 60 days by the commissioner's office ealier in the day for violating base­ball's drug policy, the Braves self-destructed on defense and on the mound. Atlanta entered the game with 1 1/2-game lead over Los Angeles in the NL West. Tom Herr had three hits and three RBis for the Giants and Darren Lewis scored four runs. Kent Mercker threw a wild pitch that helped the Giants to a two-run third inning, and left fielder Lonnie Smith fell trying to catch Terry Kennedy's flyball in the fifth, letting two more 
Kent Graham hurt in Ohio State win 
I 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -No.16 Ohio State will most likely have a different starting quarterback when it takes on pass-happy Washington State Saturday. 
l 
) Kent Graham was rocked by a hard hit on a 21-yard comple­tion early in the fourth quarter of Saturday's 23-15 victory over Louisville. The first-year starter stayed in for three more plays before getting hit hard again on a broken play. . 
It was the broken play that told the coaching staff some­
thing was wrong. "He went the wrong way," head coach John Cooper said 

' Monday. "Then it dawned on us. Hey, it's not like Kent to do that."
l Graham will spend this week recovering from a concussion suffered on the pass completion and a slight dislocation of his left shoulder sustained on the blown play. 
I 
Kirk Herbstreit, a junior, played the remaining 12 min­utes of Saturday's game and will get the start if Graham isn't able to play. Herbstreit will be 
backed up by Joe Pickens. 

' 
Cooper said that the presence of Herbstreit, known for his running more than his throwing, or Pickens, a redshirt freshman, will not change the Ohio State offense. 
"The only difference you'll see is No.14 (Herbstreit) or No.12 

J 
runs score. During much of the season, Nixon and Smith pia­tooned in left field with Nixon starting against right-banders. 
In his last start, Mercker and two relievers combined on a no­hitter against San Diego. 
The Giants, with manager Roger Craig back in the dugout for the first time in four games, fell behind 4-1 in the third in­ning as left-handed starter Brian Hickerson gave up four runs and four hits in two in­nings. Craig missed the Giants' previous three games while re­covering from a procedure to clear blockage in a coronary artery. 
The Giants pulled within 4-3 with two runs in the bottom in the third as Lewis scored from third on Mercker's wild pitch, and Willie McGee, who moved to third on the wild pitch, scored on a sacrifice fly by 
(Pickens) under center as 
opposed to No.11 (Graham)," 
Cooper said. "Other than that, 
it'll be the same." 

Herbstreit has thrown just one 
pass the last two seasons and it 
was intercepted. Pickens has 
never played in a collegiate 
game. 

"We had one pass called the other day" with Herbstreit in the lineup, Cooper said. "The receiver was covered and we didn't block it very good. But Kirk can throw, he can run the offense." 
Herbstreit was an option quarterback at Centerville High School. 
"I think his weakness in the past has been his ability to throw the football," Cooper said. "Nobody's worked any harder than Kirk has at throw­ing the ball. And he's a better passer now than at any time since he's been here." 
Cooper said that Graham had not been ruled out for the game and would be evaluated by the medical staff throughout the week. He added that Graham would not play if he were not able to practice. 
Ohio State's defense is giving up 70 yards a game rushing. It held Louisville to 27 net yards on 28 attempts. 
"I think we're flying around and getting after folks pretty good," Cooper said. "But we're Kevin Bass. 
San Francisco scored four runs in the fifth off Jim Clancy (2-5) to take a 7-4 lead. Herr and Bass hit consecutive one­out, run-scoring singles before both scored as Smith lost his footing and missed Kennedy's high fly that fell for a double. 
Francisco Oliveras (5-5), the third of five Giants pitchers, gave up one run and two hits in a 1 2-3 innings for the victory. Rod Beck worked two innings for his first career save. 
Down 1-0, the Braves loaded the bases on walks to Smith and Mark Lemke and Terry Pendleton's bunt single before Ron Gant drove in all three by lining a double down the left­field line. David Justice followed with a single that scored Gant. 
Herr drove in the Giants' first run with a first-inning single. 

making too many mistakes." 
Six times in the first quarter, Ohio State was called for being offsides on defense. Cooper credited Louisville quarterback
Erik ~atts Buckeyes off by altering the cadence. The Buckeyes were assessed 118 penalty yards for the game. After the game, Watts said Ohio State players were "mouthing off' throughout the game. "We don't allow that. We don't teach that, we don't coach that," said Cooper. "There's no 
And if that is happening, we will get it straightened out." Cooper said he would talk to H-­
the officials before Saturday's game and would ask them to tell him if there was any more loose talk on the field. 
Cooper also said that Carlos Snow would be the Buckeyes' starting tailback. 
Snow led Ohio State in rushing in 1988 and 1989, hut missed all of last season after removal of a bone tumor from his hip. He was the backup to Butler By'not'e in the opener, but gained 58 yards on 14 carries against Louisville. By'not'e, who came into the game tied for the top spot in the nation in rushing, had 48 yards on 18 carries. 
UJhen: LIJbere: LIJbO: 
sign-ups in both dining halls september 16, 17, 18 
Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
sunday, sept. 22 stepan fields for charity 



Grat Brandl, Great Service, Great Prices, R-.1111 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTAL$ 

Mon -Thur Elkhart South Bend
11-7 pm Fri 11-6 pm ! 220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. Michigan 
J SPECIALISTS IN GUrrAR & BASS REPAIRSI j 
J 
1 
a::J 
ill8Jr])[p~ 8il~ ®n<DW@2 ~ 

i 
0
' 
J 
It's about time!
) 
ClZ> 

a1 Love, the Lyons crew 
SINCE 1949 
page 15

Tuesday, September 17,1991 The Observer 
SPORlS SHORTS Cycling clup riding to win in second season 
• Wimbledon nixes middle Sunday matches 
•WIMBLEDON, England -The All England Club says there will be no tennis on the middle Sunday at Wimbledon even though the idea was a hit this year. 
Club officials said Monday there would be too many crowd control problems if they repeated this year's unprecedented step of playing on the middle Sunday of the two-week event ­a move caused by rainouts on the opening week. 
Fans and players thought it was a great idea, and called for it to become a tradition. 
Instead of the staid crowd that usually fills Centre Court. a younger group of spectators -many of whom spent all night on line for the first-come, first-served tickets -created a carnival-like atmosphere with their enthusiasm. 
But club chairman John Curry said it would be impossible to ensure proper crowd control and safety if everyone knew in a?va_nce that tickets for play on the middl~ Sunday were to be 

.... distributed on a rtrst-come, rll"St-served basts. 
..Everything worked out well this year because of the surprise. el~ment of announcing it so shortly beforehand," Cu~ry sa1d. We also had bad weather on the Saturday evening, which reduced the overnight queues. I do not think we could get away with it again." 
Club officials made a small concession by cutting the price of 2,000 unreserved Centre Court seats on the middle Saturday from $47 to $35. 
'f' .. ·. . )# 
!P~~~8J'cr~ !~'~u!'!~hs:!~~player knew~:sh~uldn!t 
punch an opponent in the mouth, so he kissed him on the cheek. The peck got him ejected and h.e servea a one-game suspension Monday for ungentlemanly conduct. 
R.J. McSorley, a 21-year-old sophomore defensive midfielder for the Community College ofiAlJegheny County in Pittsburgh served his suspension when his school was host.· to Allegany Community College of Maryland. 
The kiss happened Sunday in the second half of CCAC's 5..1 wi~ over Dundalk Community College in Maryland. McSorley satd he retaliated to some aggressive play by Dundalk players in t~e first half and received a yellowcard for roughing. 
H1s coach, Paul Dangelo. warned him not to retaliate again because a second yellow card comes with an automatic ejection and one-game suspension. 
So when McSorley came face to face in the second half with an unidentified Dundalk player, he kissed him and walked+ away. 
The second yellow card came out. McSorle}' said.he was not surprised by· the suspension. "You 

· ,don't go around kissing people, .. he said. "It's antagonizing/' 
The coach said he didn't plan any team discipline against McSorley. "I'm glad that he didn't punch the guy or kick the guy." Dangelo said. 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
The second year of Notre Dame's Cycling Club got off to a bittersweet start at the Citizens race in rural Mont Pelier, Indiana, on Sunday. 
The bitter part was that no Irish men placed among six participants. The most devas­tating incident was a crash which occurred about seven miles from the finish line. One casualty was ND senior Matt Tyska, who was among the pack (about sixth), and at the time had a good shot of placing . 
The sweet was provided by Heidi Toboni, a sophomore, who placed first in the women's category, a category that severely lacked strength last year. 
John Puskas founded the Notre Dame Cycling Club last January-just weeks before their first race. Last year. it 
featured approximately 30 members, 15 who consistently participated in races. 
The culmination of the ND Cycling Club's first season ef­forts came at the Spring Regionals in Miami of Ohio, where they earned an impres­sive 16th place in the Midwest Region which consists of 27 other schools. 
While last year's emergence was spontaneous, and the team was understandably not pre­pared, this year they hope to establish themselves as serious contenders. 
"Truthfully, we made a lot of rookie mistakes last year. It cost us by starting late," admit­ted Puskas. 
"Last year we went to 12 races. This year we should have about 16. We're hoping to throw a home race during the second or third weekend of March, which should include the whole conference," said Puskas. 
In cycling, a team garners points in descending order from categories A (advanced), B (intermediate) and C (navist). Women account for nearly 40% of a team's possible score. Last year, the Irish Cyclers had no participants in the A-category, and only one woman-Cathy Black. 
"That (the shortage of women competitors on the team) really worked against," said Puskas. "Cathy is a possible candidate for the intermediate-level nationals if she rides up to her potential." 
Black's husband Mark, an engineering graduate, also has the experience and strength to be a top racer this season. 
Other key returnees include sophomores John Puskas and Tom McDonald, junior Chris 
Lenhart, seniors Rob Stevenson, David Hicks and Matt Tyska, and law-student Bob Kobayashi. Along with freshman hopeful Damian Defazio, these riders are among the elite squad, "the best of the best." 
"We have outstanding talent," boasted Puskas. "We were rated in the top-1 0 as deter­mined by the US Cycling Road License (a national non-colle­giate governing body, which judges riders by previous rac­ing performances)." 
Besides improving on last year's racing, one of this year's priorities for the Cycling Club is pursuing financial help for a sport which relies on necessar­ily expensive equipment to re­main competitive. While Cycling quickly secured the school's second highest club 
council budget ($3,000), it also 
receives commercial sponsor­
ship from the top names in bi­
cycle equipment, including 
Patrick shoes, Bell helmets, 
Power Bar, and Pro Form Bike 
Shop in South Bend, which pro­
vides mechanical maintenance 
for the squad. 
Another priority is establish­
ing mountain biking in the 
Midwest, following the path 
road cycling blazed just four 
years ago, when the Midwest 
Collegiate Cycling Federation 
appeared with ten teams. 
"There is currently no colle­
giate structure for mountain 
biking," said Karl Etzel, who got 
Notre Dame riders involved in 
the National Off-Road Bicycling 
Association this fall. "ND is the 
only school in the Midwest with ·a mountain biking team." 
Etzel hopes to fuel enthusi­
asm for the new sport by hand­
ing out flyers to competitors at 
the road races. "It's taken off 
for road racing. The same 
thing can happen for off-road 
racing." 
"The sport is growing expo­
nentially," raved Etzel, who 
raced with the Irish road cy­
clers last season before under­
taking the pioneering position 
this year. "It [mountain biking] 
started as a cult thing in 
California a few years ago. 
Now one-half of the bikes on 
campus are mountain bikes, but 
must aren't used for their 
purpose." 
Geoff Frank and Matt Roscoe 
are two of the most promising 
mountain bikers for the Irish, 
who are always looking for new 
riders at both the competitive 
and recreational levels. 
The off-road team will partic­
ipate in the Indiana State 
Championship, October 5 and 6 
in Bloomington. 
Here we are talking about May and Lou hasn't played USC. Coach MacLeod has yet to hold a basketball practice. And you haven't a single clue where you'll spend Spring Break. 
The hard reality of life is that your senior year will be over before you realize it. (That's something to think about when you drop in at Coaches or Senior Bar.) 
That's where we come in. The May Department Stores Company has 15 divisions located across the U.S. Our stores are listed below and we're betting that you have probably s~opped in one. Each year, May h1res over 300 energetic, successful students from schools like Berkeley, Duke and Notre Dame for our executive training program. We're coming to Notre Dame and would really like to meet you. 


I 

Open /louse Wednesday, September 18 We'U be in the Dooley Room ofthe LaFortune Student Center from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stop in between c~. 
At the open house, we'll answer questions like: 
• 
What will I do on a typical day? 

• 
Will you train me? 

• 
Can I put my major to use in this job? 

• 
What is merchandising? 


And, importantly, you'll meet some of our executives who at this time last year, were wo~ied about how they were going to get to the Orange Bowl and where they were going to spend Spring Break! 



.,..---,.---------------------------------------­
~ 
' 
) 
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
Charlton suspended for a week 

LOS ANGELES -Cincinnati Reds pitcher Norm Charlton was suspended for seven days and fined by the National League on Monday for deliber­ately hitting Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Mike Sciascia and saying he might try to hit him again. 
The suspension was effective immediately, but Charlton ap­pealed NL president Bill White's ruling, making the left-handed reliever eligible to play pending a hearing. 
"I have a regret for talking about it publicly," Charlton said. "It's probably not the way I should have handled it, but that's the way I did it. There's not much I can do about it now. I made a mistake by saying it." 
Joe Kelley, a member of the Reds' public relations depart-ment,.said Charlton appealed both the suspension and the undisclosed fine. 
"In all honesty, he needs time to gather his information," Charlton said of White. "So if he hears about it from CNN or ESPN or reads about it in the paper and gathers his informa­tion without gathering any facts, that's not very intelligent. So he needs to take whatever time he needs to take to gather his facts and make an intelli­gent decision." 

A statement from White said, "Charlton was suspended for his comments admitting he de­liberately threw at Mike Sciascia of the Dodgers and his threats concerning hitting Mr. Sciascia in the future." 
Perhaps coincidental to 
•White's announcement, the Reds were scheduled to begin a two-game series in Los Angeles on Monday night. "I think the action that Bill White has taken is appropriate because Norm Charlton was out of line with his actions and with his words," Dodgers general manager Fred Claire said. When asked if a seven-day suspension was enough, Claire said, "I think it's appropriate." Charlton, one of the Reds' three "Nasty Boys," hit Sciascia on the arm in a game at Cincinnati on Sept. 9 because he believed Sciascia was steal­ing signs. "I threw at him. I hit him on the arm, but I didn't mean to hit him on the arm," Charlton told a Cincinnati newspaper re­porter after the game. "He'll be lucky if I don't rip his head off the next time I'm pitching." 
Reds manager Lou Piniella immediately reprimanded Charlton, and Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda was livid when he heard the remarks. 
"He made a big mistake by saying that," Lasorda said. "It's a disgrace to baseball for a guy to make a statement like that." 
Reached at his Fullerton, Calif., home Monday morning, Lasorda said he supported White's decision. 
"First of all, it's good to see that he reacted," Lasorda said. "This guy made a very, very se­rious threat toward Sciascia, saying he wanted to tear his head off. He should be pun­ished." 
"This is a guy who actually comes out and says he wants to tear a guy's head ofT. There's no place in baseball for this kind of stuff. Let's hope that situations like this don't happen again." 
Before Monday night's game, Piniella said he believed the suspension to be "very strong," and said he didn't believe his pitchers throw at opposing hit­ters. 
"I think it was more frustra­tion on his part," Piniella said of Charlton's comments. "These guys here on this club don't head hunt. In fact, we've been hit much more than we've hit people. But at the same time, you can't go out and make irresponsible statements like that. 

A d' · h APfilephoto 
e s p1tc er Norm C~arlton, one of the Nasty Boys, was suspended

Belles soccer wins tourney at Wooster 
for 7 games after beamng Dodger's catcher Mike Sciascia. · 
By BRIDGET MCCOURT Sports Wrrter 
The Saint Mary's soccer team came back victorious from a tournament this weekend at Wooster College. By beating re­gionally and nationally ranked teams, the Belles have greatly improved their place in the 

On Friday, Saint Mary's played Elizabethtown College, ranked number eight in the na­tion. Junior Stacy Winget scored three goals in the first half to account for all of the Belles points. Elizabethtown was held to only one goal by an intense St. Mary's defense, which was Cook. Senior co-captain Greer Gilliand, who added to the scoring total with two assists, commented that "coming ofT the big win against Elizabethtown increased our confidence and showed us that we can play as a team." 
ranked seventh regionally, clinched first place in the tour­nament for Saint Mary's on Saturday. The offense again took strength from a strong defense to win 3-0. The goals, all in the second half, were scored by Winget, sophomore Megan Delsaso, and Cook. 
penalty goal against Calvin College. 
Now with their record at 3­0-1, the Belles are hoping to use this weekend's wins to build their confidence for an away match against Saint Joseph's College on September 22. Saint Joseph's is an upper Division 2 



Call Domino's Pizza: 
NOTRE DAME  ST. MARY'S  
271-0300  289-0033  
1835 South Bend Ave.  816 Portage Ave.  


Look Who's Got The Best Deals On Campus! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $ 99
ONE TOPPING 

ADDITIONAL
PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS
$4 MORE! AVAILABLE 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE TWO SMALL 
$ 
99
PEPPERONI 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS
PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. belivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 

Tuesday, September 17, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Zilvitis key to women's socc_er progress and success 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
Susie Zilvitis has seen many changes in her four years on the Notre Dame soccer team. 
The senior tri-captain has watched the team improve the level of its competition in its first four years from no-names to top-twenty squads. The irony is that Zilvitis is a big reason for that change. 
Zilvitis has started every game in Notre Dame women's soccer history and currently holds numerous team scoring records after three strong sea­sons. 
In her freshmen year, the forward led the team in goals with fourteen and assists with 

seven. Zilvitis was named to the Indiana Soccer Coaches Association All-State team'for her achievements. 
Continuing to be successful, Zilvitis was the leading scorer with twelve goals including five gamewinners in her sophomore campaign. 
Last season, she was instru­mental in securing several vic­tories against Northeast Missouri State, Valparaiso, Washington, IUSB, Northwestern, Florida International, and Zavier. She knocked in ten goals including four game winners and assisted on seven others. 
So far this season, the soccer team is 2-0-2. Zilvitis has played in all four games, but has yet to score this fall. 
"I am playing hard, but I could push harder and get more results," said Zilvitis of her play. 
Notre Dame soccer coach Chris Petrucelli is not worried. 
"If she produces the way she has in the past, it'll be another great year for her," said the coach. 
Zilvitis' success is due in part to her raw athletic ability. In high school, the Sudbury, Massachusetts native played on the soccer, lacrosse, and cross country teams. She is gifted with outstanding speed, en­durance, and a knack for scor­ing goals. 
"The thing that jumps out most is her ability to run by people with her great speed and endurance," said Petrucelli. 
Despite the success she has enjoyed in the past, Zilvitis real­izes that there is still room for improvement. She has been working on her technique and ball striking. 
"Her ability to shoot the ball is better now than it has ever been," said Petrucelli. 
As one of two remaining members of the first soccer team here at Notre Dame, Zilvitis has emerged as a real team leader on and off the field. 
"Susie is full of energy," said teammate senior Molly Lennon. "She isn't the most vocal or gungho motivator. She's more of an example setter." 
Zilvitis agrees that she is in a very influential position. 
"I want to help them (the six freshmen) see that soccer is a team sport individual achieve­ment isn't as important as how we come together as a team," said Zilvitis. 
Through the years, she has matured on the field anrl taken on various roles with grace and dignity. Zilvitis is facing the end of her soccer career at Notre Dame with the same amount of grace. 
..I wish I could stay because I think we will make it to the NCAA tournament in the near future, but I am happy just to be a part of the building pro­cess." 


It's not just anotherwayfor you
to spend your money. It's ·a way to help you save it. 
Now, get the Card and get Student Privileges. Special savings created just for you. Only from American Express. 
If you think the American Express" Card is simply another way to buy things, wetl like to share some valuable news with you: Since you're a student, the Card can actually help you save. 
Become a Student Card member today, and you'll automatically get American Express® Student Privileges,"' our newly expanded package of outstanding savings and special offers. All designed just for you-with more of what you need, for more value from the 

money you spend. 
Continental g 
3 ROUNDTRIPS ON CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-AT A PRICE THAT REALLY MAKES FLYING AFFORDABLE 
Only Student Cardmembers can enjoy this great deal on Continental Airlines: three roundtrip flights for just $129 or $189 each-depending on where you're going~ What's more, these certificates are good any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous states. 

Use your certificates to visit friends at other schools, see your family back home or enjoy yourself during a vacation. And the best part: Each certificate could save you as much as $250 Ot'er regular Continental Airlines fares 012 a coast-to-coast trip. 
OUR NEWEST ADVANTAGE: UP TO 30 MINUTES'' OF FREE MCI LONG-DISTANCE CALLING EVERY MONTH FOR AYEAR 
also help you save on your long­For just SSS a year, the Card gives you all distance calls. In total, you these savings, as well as all the traditional could save more than $44 benefits of Cardmembership-like when you enroll and use the personal attention you can get the American Express 24 hours a day from our Customer Card as a calling card. Service representatives. And you don't even have to And because you settle your account in 
Talk about value. Now the Card can 
change your current long-M'CJ 
distance company. 
PLUS, SAVINGS ON CLOTHES, FOOD, MUSIC ... AND MORE 

Student Privileges Value Certificates give you the savings you need on the things you want-a sure way to make the most of 
a college budget. This year alone, Student Cardmembers have saved at Pizzeria Uno, Eddie Bauer, MTV and ArtCarved class rings, among others. _ 
You'll find your certificates in each issue of our exclusive student magazine, American Express" Card CONNECTIONS-where you'll also find valuable ideas and information about college life today 
AGOOD INVESTMENT, AGREAT VALUE 
full each month, you won't pay any finance charges-which can save you even more. 
All of which goes to shbw that the American Express Card is an exceptional value. Because while there are many ways for you to spend your money, there are fe~ 
TRAVEl that help you save it. RELATED Apply today SERVJCES 
•To be eligible, you must be approved by December 31, 1991. •• A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. S3.70 is equal to the charges for a domestic 30-minute night/weekend MCI Card Compatibility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by 
December 31, 1991. © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Compan}: Inc 


Get the Card today. Calll-800-942-AMEX. 


'l 
), 
y I 
~ 
I 
f 
'·1 
jl
~· 
1. 
c} 'I 
;~
{
;, 
{ 
I 
~ 
l}
j~i! 
)·1 
jl 
J 
'l 
.. , 
I 
/,, ­
)1 1}
y
/
:! 
j}' 
t~' ( J'
); 
H
L1
1{, 
i!. 
,,
I'..
' .~/l ~ 
p I;: 
jl
~ 
j~
it 
'( 
I!'
ll.,. 
I' 
l~ 
r
'( 
i ~ 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Any 
graduate student or faculty member interested in coaching, advising, and or competing in gymnastics should contact Tim Sullivan at 283-3274. The team can pay money simply for an advisor's presence. Regular gymnastics begins Monday at 4:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility At Saint Mary's. 

•The 
NO TaeKwonDo Club will practice tonight in gym 4 of the A.C.C. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners classes in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial on Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. and Sunday 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Advanced classes are held Friday from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. and Saturday 10:00 to 


12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 

•For 
anyone Interested In trying out for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, S~pt. 22 in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and semors and at 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 

•Tune 
Into WVFI Sports talk tonight from 8-9 p.m.. to talk to the players about the Michigan loss and the upcommg MSU game. Call 239-6963 to give your insights. 

•Notre 
Dame Ski Team/Club will hold its first meeting regarding our Christmas trip and s~i team ~ryouts this Thursday. All interested should meet m 118 N1euwland at 


8:30 p.m. Questions call Chris at 277-7089 or Greer at 284­5048. 
•The NO Rowing Club will hold a varsity general meeting today at 7:30 in 204 O'Shag. The meeting will cover Head of the Ohio cost ($45), dues ($35), and the Alumni Row. Bring your checkbooks. 
Miller. 
continued from page 20 
the 100-meters, good enough to rank him second in the nation for high school sprinters last year. 
Last season at Willowridge High School, Miller rushed for 635 yards and eight touch­downs, caught 35 passes for 640 yards and six touchdowns. Despite only handling a total of ten punts and kickoffs, Miller returned five for TD's. 
World 
continued from page 20 
performance, it would not get a bid for the 1990 season. 
The NCAA followed through. In a letter dated November 22, 1989, the NCAA denied the league's application for an au­tomatic bid, citing low strength­of-schedule ratings and poor 
I
records against Division I non­
i
.,
conference opponents. 
I
"What they failed to take into account was that all MCC teams were playing 60-game sched­ules," Murphy said. "It's much tougher to be competitive play­ing a 60-game schedule than a 3 5-game one like so many of the other conferences in the East. 
..Besides, we're a relatively new conference, and we don't have the pulitical clout that some of the Eastern confer­ences that don't play nearly as good baseball." 

Since then, a top priority of 
the MCC has been getting that bid back. And with this report, it hopes it will succeed. 
"We have been spending a lot of time and energy in trying to regain a bid," said Assistant MCC Commissioner Teresa Kuehn...It's very important to us." 
But if the MCC fails once again, Murphy and his troops are ready. 
..Our kids play with the atti­tude that if we work hard every day, come out, play the type of 
schedule we play and do well, we'll be fine," he said...We're not going to worry about what we have no control over. If the MCC gets a bid, fine; if not, we'll go there anyway." 

Sponsored by 



The Observer Tuesday, September 17, 1991
page 18 
· Belles look forward to Concordia By KRISTEN MARTINA Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team faced some tough compe­tition this past weekend at the University of Wisconsin­Whitewater tournament. 
On Friday, Saint Mary's went 1-2, dropping two close games and pulling through with a 15­7, 15-2, 15-9 win over the University of Wisconsin­Stevens Point. Junior Karen Lorton and sophomore Michelle Martino both contributed in the Belles win. 
..Stevens Point was trying to shut down Karen in the middle. Fortunately, our other hitters pulled through with a strong hitting attack," said first year coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles face Concordia College tonight in River Forest, 
IL. The match looks to be a tough challenge for the Belles. 
"We need to work on closing our blocks and helping out on defense", commented Schroeder-Biek...We also need to work on our movement, and quicken up our offense. 
The Belles, now 2-7, have the 


WSBT AND CBS TELEVISION NETWORK INVITE YOU TO 
....,...,. in CBS soap operas CALL sports plays 
SHOOT baskets 
GUESS  the lines from CBS comedies  
PLAY  The Price Is Right & Family Feud  
REPORT  your local weather  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
STEPAN FIELD SEPT. 19, 12PM-6PM • SEPT 20, 10AM-4PM 
. ~ 
· The Observer/ M.Schropp The Saint Mary's VC?IIeyb~ll team went 1-2 on Friday, winning their last match over U. of W1sconsm-Stevens point 
talent n~ded to come through Schroeder-Biek. ..They work with the win. Lorton and well together and play as a Martino add depth and experi-team out on the court." ence to a fairly young team. The match tonight against 
"We have a great group of Concordia College should be a girls this. year", stated closeonefortheBelles. 
Come On 
Down! 
I 
I 
I 

• 
. ' -~ '" . . .. . . 
.. " .... ' ­

Tuesday, September 17, 1991 
The Observer page 19 

TtE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1991 umwrul 


God at his computer 


"Well, there he goes again .... I suppose I shouldn't worry, but I just get a bad feeling about Jimmy hanging with those tuna punks." 



.. .. ..... And SO -this ir-{..(ck starts . : : ·· headin' r~ht-for rne/Y'Kno~ so I ~kes OL\t 1-h",s here red hand l<erchlefand I 
sta.rls \NG\Ving it like thrs/ y'koow... but he don•+ see me, so I just keeps wavin_g ar0 wo.v\n_g af'\d all +he tme I'm !h·,nkin; ''rs ihis really happen!~ io me? u 
:1: 
·\ 
CALVIN Atm HOBBES  BILL WAITERSON  
'fl\-\~T fl.-00$ \\OBBES? 010 'lOU S\GN \.\\til UP TOO?  \T Tf«£5 'JS .b-tL D~i TC> DR'<, ~Nt> \JNill "'lt. 00, ~t: st~~t.u.. ru~nt~  


THE FAR SIDE 


f/
I 
Henry never knew what hit him. 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
ACROSS 31 Long, long 63 "Bonanza" 

times 
Tuesday
actor

1 First name of 47 
32 Fall bloomers 64 Switch 7 p.m. Film, "Women in Hollywood Series." Annenberg
Down 
35 Salt Lake City positions Auditorium.
6 Strong Tahitian 
team 65 Chaser in a bar 9:15p.m. Film, "Manhunter." Annenberg Auditorium.
drinks 37 Hounds' 66 Pomme de -­
10"-along, 
sounds (potato)little dogie" 39 Writer Bellow 13 A heavy in "The 40 PulsatesMaltese Falcon" 

DOWN LECTURES
42 "Cubic" Rubik 

15 Plaintiff in a 1970 case 44 Half of a dance 1 Fiber source 16 Revolutionary 45 J. Jones heroes 4Z Greek mountain TUesday War general 46 Baseball chain 12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "A .Complex Web: State­18Siowone Hall-of-Farner 3 Take back a Agricultural Bourgeoisie Relations in Revolutionary Nicaragua 19 Hindu goddess Hank hand (1979-1990)," Rose Spalding. Room C103, Hesburgh Center for 20 Mother lode 48 Tell a story 4Arow International Studies. 21 Confirmation, 51 Kilmer subject 5 Important digits 3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Spatial Localization of Corrosion 
e.g. 52 Dueling sword on an l.R.S. 
on Passive Metals," Kurt Heber, Iowa State University. Room
form

23 Insistence 53 Virgil opener 
356, Fitzpatrick Hall.
6 Type of code 

25 Waiting area for 55 High points 
4 p.m. Lecture, "A House Divided: The Arab World in the
7 Calfskin 

TV guests et al. 59 V. Lombardi's 
Aftermath of the Kuwait Crisis," Father Patrick Gaffney.
parchment

29 ~arly Dadaist team: 1 959-68 
8 Norse sea god Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies.
30 Schisgal play 62 Author Kovic 
9 Riv. boat -------------10 Environmental-Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "Women of the Breaking," Sister Bettina

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ist gr_oup11 Architectural Maria Ferraro. Stapleton Lounge LeMans, Saint Mary's.
style 12 Type of bopper 13 R.E.L., D.D.E. et 32 Lou Grant 47 A three-time 57 Irish lake MENU al. . portrayer Wimbledon 
sa Dublin-to­

14 Sign on a champ
33 Essen's area Madrid dir. Notre Dame 
48 Amazon feeder "' 
giveaway 

34 Cinder 49 Front part of a &OCertain Caribbean BBQ Chicken
17 Turns inside out 
stage telegrams of Beef Stew over Biscuits

22 Cities in Mich., 36 Evening affair so No-no 
yesteryear: Mushroom Quiche

N.Y. and Ohio 54 Talking bird 
38 Record Abbr.
24 Highway sign 56 Dutch painter 
beforehand 
61 H'wd.

25 Overabundance Jan van der Saint Mary's 
41 Beard's org. ten-percenter
26 Biblical book Baked Chicken 43 What 160
27 Ocotes, sapins, Chimichanga
square rods 

etc. Answers to any three clues in this Blueberry Crepe
28 Famed add up to 

puzzle are available by touch-tone Deli Bar Canadian 46Poet-phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each physician Manley Hopkins minute). 

Sports 

page 20 Tuesday, September 17, 1991 

Women's soccer impressive in Cinci 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Marianne Giolitto, who also had ..After the goal, something Sports Writer an assist on Porter's second happened to us mentally," goal, halfway through the Porter said, "We were unsure 
The Notre Dame women's second half. It was assisted by how to react." soccer team enjoyed a success­Margaret J arc. J arc and The Lady Commodores then ful weekend in Cincinnati, de­Giolitto have been working well knotted the game eleven min­
feating Cincinnati 4-0 behind a together all season on both utes later, when Tracey Moore hat trick by sophomore sides of the field. scored on a header off a corner Stephanie Porter on Saturday "This was a great win for us, kick. and tying Vanderbilt 3-3 on not just because we won, but "We were dominating the Sunday. how we won,.. a pleased coach game when we were up 2-0, but 
The Irish overwhelmed Petrucelli said after Saturday's some critical mistakes in the 
Cincinnati in the crucial Central game, "We are starting to come backfield let them back into the Region matchup. They domi­together and are playing the game," Petrucelli commented. nated every aspect of the game, way we are capable of playing." In overtime the Irish once 
outshooting the Bearcats 22-4 On Sunday, Notre Dame built again scored first. Two minutes and taking ten corner kicks to leads of 2-0 and 3-2, but the into the extra session, freshman Cincinnati's one. Lady Commodores fought back Tiffany Thompson, who was 
"Everybody gave 100 both times to even the contest. credited with an assist on percent, and we were able to Early on it looked as if the Lester's goal, scored on a seven move the ball well," Porter said, Irish would cruise to another yard shot from in front of the 
"Whenever we click, we can re­convincing win. Porter scored goal. Once again, Vandy battled ally play well together." her fourth goal of the weekend back. With 17:39 left, Holly Porter opened the scoring on a header at the 13:04 mark Goodman put a shot over the with two minutes left in the ftrst to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. head of Notre Dame goalie, 
half when she took a pass from Alison Lester then added her Michelle Lodyga from 15 feet 
freshman Robin Mego and third goal of the season with out. Neither team could score netted a shot from 20 yards out. under two minutes remaining in for the remainder of the game. Her second goal came nine the ftrst half. "It is hard to accept a tie, minutes into the second half on However, the second half especially after being up 2-0," a 15 yard shot from in front of was a different story. Only 1:11 Petrucelli added, "In overtime, the goal, and she completed the after the intermission we played well and created hat trick with a seven yard shot Vanderbilt became the first chances, but again a critical from the middle with eight team to score against the Irish mistake led to a goal. This minutes left in the game. when Jeannie Barrow finished week I am going to work with 
The other Notre Dame goal a two-on-one breakaway with a the defense. We need to play was scored by tri-captain shot from five yards out. 90 minutes without a mistake." 
Mike Miller leaves Notre Dame 
By RICH KURZ "He went home to Houston... kick off and punt returns. Associate Sports Editor Sports Information Director Unconfirmed reports have John Heisler confirmed that said that Miller will transfer to 
The man widely touted as the Miller had informed Notre the University of Houston, but heir to the Rocket has abdi­Dame coach Lou Holtz of his Miller gave neither Holtz nor cated the throne. Freshman decision to leave, and Coach the University any indication of 
Mike Miller, one of the top high Holtz told WNDU that Miller his future plans. school sprinters in the country was homesick. According to WSBJ-TV, Miller last year with the moves to Most likely another factor in reportedly wanted to go to a make big plays, has deCided to Miller's decision was his health program that would allow bini transfer from the University of problems throughout the sea­to concentrate on track full­Notre Dame. son. The freshman pulled his time during the spring s~ason. 
According to Miller's room­hamstring on the second day of A 5-7, 155 wide receiver, mate, Nick Galassi, Miller left summer camp and just started Miller was one of the most for Houston at 5:45 this after­practicing at full speed last highly recruited prep players in noon. Miller is from Missouri week. the country last season. He has City, Texas, a suburb of Miller also injured his ankle been timed at 4.35 seconds in Houston. in Saturday's game at Michigan, the 40-yard dash and 10.32 for 
"He is no longer a student at his first game in an Irish 
see MILLLER /page 18
the University," said Galassi. uniform.. He was put in to on 

MCC awarded automatic bid for women's basketball • 
One of the standard arguments-------­women's hoops is welcome news. For two straight Murphy. against Notre Dame's membership years, the team has won 2 3 games, only to be "It's unfortunate for the kids, because they deserved in the Midwestern Collegiate disappointed when the tournament bracketing was to go," he said. "How can a team beat three teams in Conference in years past has been announced. Now, though, the pressure is off for the the top 10, win 45 games, play the type of schedule we that the conference was too weak thr.ee-time MCC champs. played, and not get a bid? It was just a gross over­to earn its members a spot in the "After winning the league three straight years, it's sight." NCAA tournament. easy now to tell a recruit that you've got a pretty good If the MCC gets its wish, that kind of oversight won't 
But last month, the NCAA shot at making the NCAAs,.. McGraw said. "Last year, happen again. Executive Committee announced we were in a situation when after we lost to Miami of This week, the league's baseball coaches will meet to that the MCC had been granted an Ohio (in late February), we felt like the season was discuss a report compiled by the MCC over the summer. automatic bid into the women's RENE FERRAN over. This way, we can afford to lose a few games and This report provides statistical evidence to support the basketball tournament that will be World of Sports know that we still have a chance at making the tourna­league's upcoming application for an automatic bid. held next March. ment." • Among the data available to the MCC: 
And in November, the NCAA Baseball Committee will And in terms of scheduling, the Irish can continue to •The MCC ranked sixth among all Division I confer­consider an MCC application for an automatic bid for play one of the most difficult schedules in the country, ences in percentage of games played against Division J that sport, and the league will present a detailed report but now with a different goal in mind. competition (92.9 percent). The bottom league in the showing why the MCC deserves to have the bid it lost in "It's a great confidence booster knowing that we can rankings was the Pac-10 North (75.3 percent). 1989 reinstated. schedule difficult opponents, lose a few along the way, •The MCC (without Saint Louis' statistics) compared · 
"We knew that the MCC had made a commitment to but at the end of the year still have the opportunity to favorably with other conferences in the region-the Big improve their sports when we joined (in 1988)," said win the conference and get a bid," said Conboy. 10 and the Mid-American-in terms of strength of Assistant Athletic Director Missy Conboy. "We're now Still, you have to wonder why all of the sudden the schedule. seeing the effects of that commitment." MCC is deserving of a bid. Could it be to make up for •The MCC also compared favorably with several 
"They (the MCC) have shown consistent improvement snubbing Notre Dame two straight years? conferences already receiving automatic bids in terms with their scheduling and their ability to compete "It certainly appears that way to me," joked McGraw, of overall, Division I, and non-conference winning against that schedule," said NCAA Women's Ba~etball "when you consider that they said we're not a strong percentages-including the Atlantic 10, Big South, Committee chairperson Judy Holland. "Obviously, the enough conference to warrant us getting an at-large Eastern Intercollegiate, TransAmerica, Northeast, strength of the conference is Notre Dame, but the other bid. North Atlantic, MAC, Ohio Valley, Southern and schools as well have shown improvement." "(But) the departure of Saint Louis and Marquette Western Athletic. 
But another important event occurred this past was really the big reason why we got the bid," she "Baseball in our conference has gotten so much summer which may have meant more: Saint Louis and continued. "With them gone, now they (the NCAA) are stronger the past few years," Murphy said. "There's no Marquette, two of the weakest women's basketball saying that our conference isn't as weak, and they're question that our teams-Notre Dame, Evansville, and teams in the conference--and in Division I itself-left to right." Detroit-are tournament-caliber teams." join the new Great Midwest Conference. ••• Back in November 1988, the NCAA warned the MCC 
"The two schools dropping from the conference Down at Jake Kline Field, the Notre Dame baseball that if it did not improve its scheduling and definitely helped (the MCC) get a bid," said Holland. team is getting ready for the 1991-1992 season. But the 
see WORLD I page 18 

For Notre Dame, the MCC's automatic qualification in memories of last year's snub still rankle Irish coach Pat 





