

VOL. XXIII NO. 88 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student body candidates field forum questions 
AP Photo 

DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Three tickets discussed their views and goals for next year during debates for Student Body President and Vice Presi­dent. hnld Wndnesday night. 
Elections for the positions of studnnt body presidnnt and vice presidnnt will bn held Monday, Feb. 11. 
Tickets participating in the dnbatns w11re Michael Ferguson of Stanford and Charlie James of Pangborn, Nicoln Farmer of Lyons and Eric Griggs of Grace, and Joseph Blanco of Alumni and David Florenzo of Flanner. 
Thn ticket of Mark Kromkowski and Sam Nigro did not attend thn debatn, citing "previous commitmnnts that are prnssing to our philosophi­cal growth." 
The debate consisted of an optming statnment from nach ticket, followed by three rounds of questions from representa­tives of Thn Observer and Scholastic magazine. The floor was thnn opnned to thn audi­encn, followed by closing re­marks. Participants were given onn to two minutes to answer each question. 
Ferguson, whose experience ineludes presidnnt of the Freshman Advisory Council, Student Senate. and Stanford flail Judicial Board, cited the multi-dimensional nxperience, diverse agenda, leadership ability, and the fact that his running mate James had "a fire pus," said Farmer. "People seem to be drawing lines. Through communication, this problem could have been allevi­ated before." 

Ferguson and James pointed out that students on both sides were frustrated, and that stu­dent government must give SUFR backing in order to pro­vide credibility. "Thny feel that if they pursue proper channels . . . they're being shut down." The conflict could be avoided in the future with the restruc­turing of Student Senate and the channels to the administra­tion, according to Ferguson. 
While Blanco and Florenzo expressed support for most of the issues of SUFR, and em­phasized the point that groups like these must be given the op­portunity to express concerns from the start. "We can do best," said Blanco, "by getting the administration involved at the grass-roots level." 
While Farmer/Griggs support the multi-cultural center re­quested by SUFR as beneficial to cultural diversity and educa­tion, the other tickets were he­sitant to support the building. 
Blanco said that the center must be centrally located if it is to succeed. "We don't want a center that is going to be off the campus somewhere, it would become more of a divisive thing." 
Ferguson objected to spend­ing money on building rather than on programs more valu­
see DEBATE I page 4 

Actor Danny Thomas dies at 79 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Co­nwdian Danny Thomas, the son of an illiterate immigrant who became television's most recognized daddy and one of its most prolific producers, died Wednnsday aftnr a heart at­tack. lie was 79. 
The star of the long-running eomndy s11ries "Make Hoom for Daddy" died at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center about 30 min­utes aftnr hn was taken there 
I . 
I 
from his Beverly Hills home. 
From former presidents to lifelong friends, expressions of sympathy and shock poured in Wednesday. 
"Danny Thomas delighted millions with his tremendous talent and sense of humor," said former President Ronald Reagan. "He was a pioneer in wholesome television enter­tainment and a devoted family man of tremendous generosity." 

Comedian Joey Bishop, a close friend for 45 years, said he was stunned. 
"I really couldn't stop crying this morning," said Bishop. "I loved him so much. I don't re­member Danny ever being sick." 
"He died peacefully," said Norman Brokaw. Thomas' longtime agent and newly named chairman and chief ex­ecutive officer of the William Morris Agency. "It's hard to be­lieve," Brokaw said. "He really wasn't sick." 
Funeral services were pend­ing. 
Thomas made his last TV ap­pearance Saturday night. play­ing an aging doctor on "Empty Nest," the successful comedy series co-produced by his son, Tony Thomas. 
He also had recently com­pleted a promotional tour, in­cluding a guest spot on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" for his new book, "Make Room For Danny." 
On television, Thomas is best remembered as Danny Williams, the loud but soft­hearted nightclub entertainer on "Make Room for Daddy," which ran from 1953 to 1971 on ABC and CBS. 
The series, for which Thomas won an Emmy in 1954, was re­ally a spin-off of his real life. Its title came from a phrase often heard in the Thomas household when the traveling entertainer returned home and his children scrambled to different beds to "make room for daddy." 
Iraqi anti-aircraft fire futile against attack 

DHAHRAN. Saudi Arabia (AP) -The United States ambushed four fleeing Iraqi jets Wednesday and Iraq blasted the sky with intense -but ap­parently futile -anti-aircraft fire, allied military officials said. 
Iraq announced that it was cutting diplomatic ties with the six leading members of the multinational coalition seeking to oust its troops from Kuwait. And Saddam Hussein gained an ally in word, if not in deed, when Jordan's King Hussein called for a cease-fire and de­nounced the war "against brotherly Iraq." 
King Hussein -no relation to Saddam -had long been considered one of the West's best friends in the Arab world. But he has tilted increasingly toward Iraq in the Persian Gulf War, and Wednesday strode firmly onto Baghdad's camp. 
"This war is a war against all Arabs and all Muslims and not against Iraq alone," the king said. Although he stopped short of offering military assistance to Saddam, he called on all Arabs and Muslims to support Iraq. 
President Bush instantly re­jected the call to cease fire on Saddam. "There will be nothing of that nature until this man commences a credible. unilat­eral withdrawal and then we'll see what happens," he said en 
OPERATION 

DESERT STORM 
• 
Civilian casualties I page 6 

• 
Diplomatic ties cut I page 6 

• 
Blood drive I page 7 

• 
American Muslims I page 7 

• 
Gas mask inventor I page 7 


route to a speech in New York. 
An Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity called Hussein's speech "the most comprehensive and most aggressively pro-Iraqi" since the crisis began. The 20-year unofficial pnace between Israel and Jordan is critical to lsranl's defense posture. 
Iraq severed diplomatic rela­tions with the United States, Britain, France, Italy, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. 
Allied jets ranged denp into Iraqi territory, and Iraq claimed that 150 civilians had been killed in a single air raid, including 35 children. Baghdad radio complained that the 
see GULF I page 4 
in his belly," as reasons for their candidacy. 
As student body secretary, a student senator, member of the Campus Life Council, and multi-cultural work, Farmer and Griggs will succeed by "bridging the communications gap." 
A key gaol of the Farmer/Griggs ticket is to build on the beliefs of students, to improve the communication between student government, 

Actor and comedian Danny Tnomas, center, shown with the cast of television's "Make Room for Daddy" series, died early Wednesday of a heart attack at his Beverly Hills home. Thomas was 79 years old. 
the administration and stu­dents, and to demand that the University commit itself to un­dergraduate education, not re­search. 
Blanco, who has served on Hall Presidents' Council, Stu­dent Senate. and the class gov­ernment committee, and Flo­renzo, a member of the student union board, believe that they will be able to combine experi­ence to accomplish their goals. 
Their ticket focused on the changing pursuits of Notre Dame. "We are s·eriously con­cerned," said Florenzo, "about whether Notre Dame is truly in­terested in undergraduate edu­cation." 
The issue of the concerns of the Students United for Respect (SUFR) recurred frequently. The Farmer/Griggs ticket at­tributed the problems to a lack of communication. "SUFR is something that many feel is misunderstood on this cam­
-~--. ---~-----­
----------------·----·-------~------------­

page 2 Thursday, February 7, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Time to wake up and smell the blood 
Wartime is a wake 

up call. 
It awakens senti­

ments like the one re­
minding us that we 
live in "The Land of 
the Free and the 

Joe Moody

Home of the Brave. n 
Asst. News Editor
In this Land of the 

Fref! we're permitted 
to worship Zeus or 
Jehovah, wear cor­
duroy or plaid, and 
flip burgers at Mc­
Donald's or Burger King. It's America. 
The Home of the Brave means that we didn't get here without some spilled blood. Many died to get what we have today. And many were killed to get it. That's just been part of the game. 
That "game" includes being brave when the powers-that-be say to bebrave. And so here we go again. War has begun. 
However, we're entering a new stage in the "game" that must be coped with, be­cause we've entered into a new technological age. And it would be unrealistic to dream that only the superpowers will ever have globally destructive nuclear capabilities. 
Warfare changed dramatically from the time of the sword to the gun, how much more dramatically it must change, if not cease to exist, in this new era. 
Next time we choose to play the Super­man of the world in the name of the Ameri­can way, it may not be Scud missiles falling clumsily on Tel Aviv, but an entire nuclear arsenal raining down directly into New York City. If some future Hussein could, he would. 
What is even more troubling is the fact that we, in this new technological age, still have to rely so heavily on a limited resource that comes abundantly from one of the most unstable regions in the world. 
It's becoming more clear that maybe it's 

time to develop a new fuel, not a new war. 
But we've been too busy showing off our 

guns. Showing them off so impressively, in 
fact, that a renewed spirit of nationalism is 
sweeping our lands. 
. T?roughout this new war, many truly pa­

triotic people have expressed praise for the 
skill and bravery of our forces in the Per­
sian Gulf. This can't be denied. They are 
brave. They are skilled. 
"Support our troops," seems to be the most popular slogan. And they do need our support, and prayers. President Bush has taken a massive popularity leap as he has successfully led a tougher, more aggressive America into the unimaginable hell of war behind a kinder, gentler smile. 
But if you support the President's ac­tio~s. are you also supporting the troops dymg for them? And if you support the troops, are you also supporting the thou­s~nds of innocent civilians accidentally killed by them? Who's right? Who's wrong? 
I really couldn't tell you. 

But there is another sentiment that c?mes to mind, one we were never taught to smg .• It had a line--"Nobody's right. ifevery­body s wrong . .. 
n 
Today'• Staff: Systems
News 
Cesar Capella 
Production
Christine Walsh Brian Stalter
Cheryl Moser 
Mike Owen 
Jacquie Calhoun 
Graphics
Accent 
Patrick Midden 
VIewpoint
Shonda Wilson Rich RileyMichael Whitman 
Photography John Rock
Business
Sports 
Colleen Gannon 
Rene Ferran 
Circulation
Alicia Reale Chris Hanely 
Rich Riley
Scoreboard 
Lu Medeiros 
Mark McGrath 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

WORLD Second protestor on trial in China 
•BEIJING (AP) -The second of four leading democracy activists charged with sedition went on trial today under tight security, and potential spectators were turned away. A small notice posted outside the Beijing Intermediate People's Court announced the trial of Liu Gang, 30, who helped lead student protest marches in 1989 that grew into a nationwide democracy movement before being crushed by the army. He is the 29th participant in the movement to be tried or sentenced since Jan. 5. The gov­ernment appears to be seeking to wrap up the cases while world attention is focused on the Persian Gulf War.Liu has been jailed 20 months and has been in solitary con­finement since May, when he led a prisoner hunger strike 
to  commemorate  the  movement.  
Winnie  Mandela  supporters  injured  
•JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP)  - Prosecutors at  

the kidnapping and assault trial of Winnie Mandela today tried to head off a defense bid for dismissal. Police later swung clubs to hold back her enthusiastic supporters outside, injuring several people. The melee broke out when a confident-looking Mrs. Mandela emerged with her husband, African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela, from an initial court session. They were greeted by about 200 cheering supporters, and Mrs. Mandela re­sponded with clenched fist sillutes. 
OF INTEREST 

•THE JUNIOR CLASS Dinner at Macri's will take 
place tonight from 6-9 p.m. There will be discounts on BRT's, breadsticks, and nachos. 
•CONDUCTING AN EFFECTIVE Mail Campaign will be the topic of a presentation given by Career and Placement Services at 6:30 p.m. tonight in Room 220 
Hayes-Healy. Strategies for mailing resumes and cover letters to prospective employers will be discussed. 
•A STUDENT FILM AND VIDEO show will be 
presented tonight at 7 p.m. in the ETS Theater in the basement of the CCE. The project will be shown from Communication and Theater production students of the 
past year. Please enter the CCE from the rear entrance. 
•TODAY IS THE DEADLINE for the summer 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 6, 1991 
VOlUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 276.94 Million t-3.49
195.38 S&P COMPOSITE 358.07 ~ 6.81 DOW JONES INDUSTRIAlS 2,830.94 ~ 42.57 
PRECIOUS METAlS GOLD ~ $5.70 to$ 362.90oz. SilVER f' 1.18¢ to$ 3.77/oz. 

NATIONAL Reagan celebrates eightieth birthday 
•BEVERLY HILLS -Ronald Reagan turned 80 Wednesday with a glitzy birthday bash luring world dignitaries as well as cash for the Reagan library, a hilltop shrine to his eight years in the White House. Britain's former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, a fellow Cold War warrior and dear friend of Reagan, was.the featured 

speaker at the Beverly Hilton Hotel black-tie gala hosted by Merv Griffin. More than 900 Reagan devotees paid $2,500 apiece to rub elbows with a diverse crowd ranging from Vice President Dan Quayle and Gov. Pete Wilson to Elizabeth Taylor, Jimmy Stewart, Liza Minnelli and Lee Greenwood. 
Arizona government officials indicted 
•PHOENIX (AP) -Seven Arizona legislators were in­dicted Tuesday with seven lobbyists and activists on charges including bribery, money laundering and filing false election statements. Police and prosecutors refused to answer questions about the 146-page indictment or the investigation into Statehouse corruption. The charges grew out of a police sting operation in which a shadowy figure known as J. Anthony Vincent campaigned for legal­ized casino gambling, using bail bondsman Ronald Tapp and private investigator Gary Bartlett to recruit political allies as tape recorders whirled. 
Service Projects applications. Stop by the CSC to pick up an application or turn yours in. There will be an Informational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at the CSC for any applicant who has not attended one of the previous meetings. You must attend one meeting. 
•RIGHT 
TO LIFE OF ND/SMC will meet tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theater, Lafortune. Guest speaker Professor Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law 

School will discuss the latest developments of abortion related cases and other life issues as well. 

•SPRING 
BREAK SEMINARS for March 9 -16 are still open to Washington D.C. (study the Gulf War), Chicago (explore cultural diversity) and an all new trip to 


Atlanta (the heart of the South). For more information contact the esc. 239-7943. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1812: Author Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, England. 

• 
In 1904: A fire began in Baltimore that raged for about 30 hours and destroyed more than 1,500 buildings. 

• 
In 1964: Thousands of screaming fans welcomed the Beatles at 


New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport as the Fab Four began their first U.S. tour. 
• 
In 1983: Elizabeth H. Dole was sworn in as the first female seeretary of transportation by the first woman to sit on the U.S. Supreme Court, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. 

• 
One year ago: The Soviet Union's Communist Party agreed to 


let alternative political parties compete for control of the country, thereby giving up its monopoly on power. 
Thursday, February 7, 1991 The Observer page 3 




Multimedia technologies enhance higher education 

By MINDY DILLON 
News Writer 
For Father Theodore Hes­burgh, University president­emeritus. "The only bright light in the Persian Gulf War is the possibility for establishing a New World Order." 
Only in reconstructing the system that allowed Saddam Hussein the ability to inflict harm and instill fear in the world will any good come out of the present struggle. Hes­burgh said last night during at the St. Edward's Hall Forum. 
Hesburgh's said his stand on the war is based upon six basic principles of justification for violence that date back to the fourth century and include the minds of St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas. 
The first principle states that the war must be for a just cause, standing up and elimi­nating an evil movement. "For the first time since the end of the Cold War, there has been no disagreement (among na­tions)," he said. 
"What Iraq did was unjust and evil. He (Saddam) should get out," Hesburgh said. 
The second characteristic in­volves declaration of war by the heads of government. Hes­burgh said that the declaration was made with the support of the United Nations, the Presi­dent, and Congress. "Approval by appropriate powers was at­tained," he concluded. 
Thirdly, the war must be a last resort. Hesburgh ex­plained Congress debated be­tween continuing economic sanctions or taking military ac­tion. "It is impossible to say what's right or wrong. or good or bad. It looks like declara­tion of war was the last result, but I would have liked to have given the sanctions more time," he said. 
The fourth principle by which Hesburgh formed his opinion states that war "should not be a foolish endeavor." According to Hesburgh, "some reasonable pos,;;ibility of success must ex­Ist. 
In declaring war. the Presi­dent and the allies made a de­cision that showed their confi­dence about Victory. he said. 
The two remaining principles of justification are, according to Hesburgh, not as applicable in this situation due to the power of modern technology. "The possibility of a just war is obsolete when instruments of total oblivion are used," he said. 
For Hesburgh, the answer lies only in the creation of a New Order. He explained the need for a new security council that would include nations like Germany, India, China. Mexico. and parts of Latin America. 
"It's harder to be a problem if you are part of the club." Hesburgh said. 
JEFF CABOTAJE News Writer 
Today's trends in technology can enhance education and the development of curriculum, said Bill Hanson. manager of media integration at Apple Computer. 
Multimedia is an integration of technologies, such as text, graphics, animation, sound, sound effects and video, utiliz­ing a personal desktop com­puter, explained Hanson in a presentation on the latest ad­vances in multimedia in relation to higher education. 
Hanson demonstrated the in­expensive and easy-to-use tools and applications that control or provide access to information and that can help faculty members develop curricula and enhance personal productivity. 
Corporate marketing, video production, training programs and education are areas wherein the new technologies allow a more efficient and ef­fective access to information, said Hanson. 
Furthermore, multimedia users are rewarded with an in­creased attention, interest, re­tention and motivation of the audience, as a result of the en­gagement of multiple senses. 
The Apple Media integration goals, according to Hanson, are: 
• the evolution from "static to dynamic documents," which would involve the incorporation of sound and video graphics into a text on the computer to enliven it. 
"People are suggesting, 'Why would you talk to your com­puter?' I think it will become obvious why you would want to talk not to but into the com­puter," explained Hanson, "because sound or speech is the dominant way we communicate. And being able to annotate documents within a word processor involves sound." 

• electronic output, or "Print to Video." 
According to Hanson, "Another idea is offering an­other alternative to hard copy output. The idea is to print a video because video is a very ubiquitous technology. So, be­ing able to transfer what you're doing on the computer, if it in­volves graphics, animation, or sound. combine that with a regular video, and then output it (through a VCR) in the same way you do to a laserwriter is becoming a reality." 
• to extend distributed usage of media, establishing a cen­tralized system for users. 
These goals are now being reached with the programs on the present software available now, as well as the future soft­ware soon to come out in the market. For example, author­ing software with programs such as HyperCard and SuperCard come with most Apple computers. Graphics software include VideoQuill, Oasis, and the revolutionary Photoshop which was described as an electronic darkroom. These new "tools" enable the user to manipulate graphics. 
The hottest software, accord­ing to Hanson, are those con­cerning 30. In particular was the Swivel Professional pro­gram which created a 3D object from a 2D object on the com­puter screen, resulting in pho­torealistic images. Once 3D was available, animation software 
American Heart c•a Association 'V 

developed, such as the Studio 1 program which involved 3D im­ages, animation. and sound. 
The sound software programs were the MacRecorder which shows wave forms of sounds and the AudioMedia which turns a personal computer into a high quality digital audio recorder found in post­production studios, said Hanson. "(With AudioMedia). I could record and edit on my computer and even output back out to a digital audio tape with no loss of quality." 
The video software mainly in­volved the laserdisc, which in multimedia could hold 54,000 images from slides and access any one of them in less than a second, providing an instanta­neous presentation of any indi­vidual image. 
Hanson also explained com­pression which dealt with keep­ing information in the smallest possible size when sending it to people. This, he claimed, was the key to moving forward in technology. He further ex­plained that the Motion Picture Experts Group (MPEG) is now developing the idea of com­pressing a video onto a CD while CCITT. who introduced fax standards, are working on telephony (sending documents over phone lines). 
Tony Van Hoof, the interac­tive media specialist at Notre Dame. followed Hanson and discussed the multimedia re­sources now available on cam­pus for course development. 
Instructors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as from local school districts, were invited to the event. It was sponsored by the Office of University Computing and Apple Computers as part of the Technology for Academia series. 
THE M.1LRIC\,\i HEART 
;\SS(~J ..\Til.).\1 MEMUI~IAI.I'I~CO:;RAM,,
-

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager 
Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTSManager Controller Art Director 

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 


Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self·knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
----------------------~~·--------------------~------------------~----~--------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1991 



Debate 
continued from page 1 
able to the University and even to minorities on campus. "What's wrong with hiring more minority faculty? We don't necessarily feel like putting up a building will solve the problem," he said. 
All of the candidates empha­sized the importance of ad­dressing the transition of the University from one dedicated to the education of the under­graduate to one committed primarily to research. As a re­sult of teachers teaching fewer classes, "the class size is out of control," said Ferguson. Notre Dame must re-commit itself to the needs of its students. 
Blanco/Florenzo cited stu­dent/administration relations as a major concern of their ticket. "We'd like to do a Board of Trustees report about how the administration views student voices," said Blanco. 
All of the tickets agreed that the corporate-sponsored lec­ture series instituted this year should be implemented again in coming years. 
The candidates also discussed the importance of changing HPC and student senate roles in the Notre Dame community. 
"HPC is the pulse of the stu­dent body," said Blanco. Each ticket emphasized the impor­tance of the council as a con­tact for students at the grass­roots level. All of the candi­dates called for increased power for HPC. Fergu­son/James called for a restruc­turing to provide better repre­sentation for students. 
The candidates differed about how to change the student sen­ate in order to allow it to better address student needs. Farmer/Griggs called for a fac­ulty member to better student­faculty relations, while Blanco/Florenzo believed that the Senate should do more to serve as a forum for debate of issues. "We'd take cabinet posi­tions," said Farmer, "and put them in constant contact with the administration and with the students. It would stop this tension of 'I don't want to talk to the administration." 
Ferguson/James said that, if elected, they would restructure the Senate and hold elections in the fall, so that students are better represented. 
One student in attendance asked the candidates to express their policy concerning a gay and lesbian organization. 
Farmer pointed out that, although the University cannot fund a gay and lesbian organi­zation because it is against the beliefs of the Catholic faith, as students we must support the efforts of the group. The Blanco/Florenzo agreed that the University can only support a group that is consistent with the beliefs of the Catholic Church and Notre Dame. 
Ferguson/James pointed out that one of the highest forms of insult is the failure to recognize a group. The 'gay and lesbian group seeks only to unify. he said. 
All the candidates supported more campus phones, emer­gency phones, and cable TV. Farmer cited improvements in the dining hall, drainage, and students helping students pro­grams as key needs for stu­dents in upcoming years. 
Farmer summed up her ticket saying, "We believe in building on your beliefs, we believe in representation, we believe in freedom of speech." Asked how her ticket would succeed, she continued, "Unless you have heart you have no place to go, and Eric and I have a lot of 

heart." In Washington, Secretary of Affairs Committee. "Tough Blanco emphasized the im­State James Baker tried to times lie ahead." 

Gulf 

portance of pushing for Notre steel Congress for a long and Dame to commit to undergrad­continued from page 1 bloody fight. Baker's warning was old news uates rather than research. In to the allied troops massed addition, he said "we want to United States and its allies "The military actions now near Saudi Arabia's border see a student representative on were bombing hospitals, under way necessarily involve with Kuwait. They spent a (the) DuLac (committee), a se­mosques and houses. many casualties, great hard­tense but relatively quiet day rious review of the honor code, "They want to expel Iraq ships and growing fears for the on the front, still waiting for a and a review of the disciplinary from the 20th century," the ra­future," Baker said in testi­ground offensive they know will procedures." dio said. mony to the House Foreign be difficult and deadly. 
. THE GULF CRISIS 

March 9-16 Spring Break Seminar 




[j{JC5i(j0 
Chicago Cultural Diuersity 
March 9-16 
Spring Break Seminar 
For more information, 

contact: Dr. Michael Affleck-239-7943 Center for Social Concerns 


Atlanta March 9-16 
The Heart of the South One week in urban and rural Georgia contact Br. Bonaventure 239-7353 
Applications still accepted at the Center for Social Concerns WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

The Observer 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 page 5 
'Miss Saigon' hits record sales 
NEW YOHK (APJ -Theater­goers lined up from dawn till well past dusk to buy tickets to "Miss Saigon," the most expen­sive show in Broadway history with advance sales already at a record $34 million. 
About 120 people were wait­ing when the Broadway Theater's three box office win­dows opened at 8 a.m. Monday, two hours earlier than usual, and they were still trickling in shortly before midnight, when the windows closed. Hegular box office hours, 10 a.m.-6 p.m., were to begin today. 
First in line were Darren Stein, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Peter Hack of Montclair, N.J., two students at New York University. They had arrived at 5 a.m. to buy tickets to the hit British musical. 
"It's an incredible show," said Stein, a film major at NYU. "I saw it in London." 
By 5 p.m. Monday, the Broadway Theater box office had taken in $461,230, said Fred Nathan, a spokesman for the musical. In comparison, Nathan noted that "Les Miserables" took in $447,275 the first day its tickets went on sale at the same venue. 
"The Phantom of the Opera" sold a record $920,271 in tick­ets its opening day here, but in­dividual "Miss Saigon" tickets have been on sale through phone and mail orders since May 20, 1990, 24 weeks longer than "Phantom" tickets had been available, Nathan said. 
Top price to see "Miss Saigon" is $100 for 250 prime seats in the front mezzanine. It begins preview performances March 25 and the musical officially opens April 11. 
Orchestra tickets will cost $60, the current top price for musicals such as "The Phantom of the Opera" and "City of Angels," while other mezzanine tickets will be $60, $45 and $30. About 100 student-priced $15 tickets will be available for Monday through Thursday evenings. 
The musical, a variation on "Madame Butterfly," is set during the Vietnam War and focuses on the fall of Saigon in 1975. It concerns the romance between an American Marine and a Vietnamese bar girl. 
Producer Cameron Mackintosh attributed the tickets' high prices to "mathematics." 


Changes in communications 
Bill Hanson, manager of media integration at Apple Computers, held a presentation on various new technology being applied to multimedia in higher education. Story page 3. 
ALL MARRIED STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF ARE INVITED TO: 
TAKE SOME TIME TO JENJRIT\CJHr YOUR MARRIAGE in a Marriage Enrichment Program from Campus Ministry 
Using the E.N~ICH Inve~tory, co.uple.s look at a.reas of their marriage: Commumcatlon, Resolvmg Confhct, Fmances, Children and Parenting, Families and Friends, Sexuality, Religion and discuss issues of similar and different perspective. 
This is a two-session program. Each session will be offered twice. In Session I couples take the inventory. In Session II couples receive the results. 
Session I will be offered Sunday. February 17,2:00-3:30 pm . . ~nd Wednesday, February 20, 7:30-9:00 pm (Ch1ldcare 1s available on Sunday afternoon; please request it when you register.) 
Pre-registration is necessary. There is a $10 processing fee per couple. (Fee does not apply to students.) 
Call Campus Ministry at 239-5242 to register by Februaryl5. 
For further information, please call Tracey Sandman or Chris Etzel. 


Landmark arms treaty is delayed 
WASHINGTON (AP) Secretary of State James Baker, questioning Soviet credibility, called on Wednesday for a delay in ratifying a landmark weapons reduction treaty and accused the Kremlin of turning "down a path of no benefit" in the Baltic Republics and on other fronts. 
In testimony to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Baker lashed the Soviet leader­ship for expanding the author­ity of the army and the KGB se­cret police and for the harsh way it was dealing with rebel­lion in the Baltic Republics. 
"Perestroika cannot succeed at gunpoint," Baker declared. 
Baker, in the past, has tried to insulate U.S.-Soviet negotia­tions to cut nuclear and con­ventional forces from frictions on other fronts. 
But he told the committee that he had recommended to President Bush he delay submitting to the Senate for ratification a treaty signed by 22 nations last November to make the most extensive cuts in non-nuclear weapons in history. 
Baker questioned the Soviets' interpretation of the Conventional Forces in Europe accord, particularly their effort to exclude three infantry divi­sions from reduction provisions by reclassifying them as shore defense units. 
Naval forces are not subject to restrictions in the pact, signed by the 16 North Atlantic Treaty Organization and six Warsaw Pact nations, and ap­plying across the vast expanse of Europe -from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains in the Soviet Union. 
The Bush administration also has questioned as understated the size of the Soviet forces now in Europe and the shifting of thousands of tanks east of the Ural Mountains before cuts are to take effect. 
The treaty would require far deeper reductions in Soviet weapons than in U.S. arsenals. According to some estimates, the Soviets would have to de­stroy at least 17,000 of their 72,000 ground weapons and aircraft. 
Also, the treaty would compel Gorbachev to carry out his promise to withdraw Soviet troops from East Germany and Poland. 
Baker said the questions raised by the United States, its allies and even Warsaw Pact members go "to the heart of credibility and trust." 
As a result, Baker said he had recommended that the treaty not be submitted for ratifica­tion. It was not clear whether that would imperil the treaty timetable. Key provisions of the 1979 SALT II strategic arms treaty, for example, have been observed by both sides even though President Jimmy Carter withdrew it from the Senate to register displeasure with the Soviet Union's invasion of Mghanistan. It has never been resubmitted. 
Baker told the House commit­tee that the recent disagree­ments have slowed work on an­other treaty, meanwhile, to re­duce long-range U.S. and Soviet long-range nuclear missile arsenals. 
"We need to clear these things up," he said. 
The program instituted nearly six years ago by Mikhail Gorbachev to move from com­munism to political and eco­nomic freedom has made "an apparent turn" back in the di­rection of a centralized econ­omy, Baker said. 
He called the violence in the Baltics, a less free media and the departure of advocates of reform from government "unsettling events." 
"The Soviet leadership is at a crossroads," Baker said. "We have made clear that their last several steps have taken them down a path of no benefit for them or for us or for anyone else." 
He made no mention of the Soviet president by name, a common practice of diplomats registering displeasure with a foreign leader. 



Projects 
•STUDENTS volunteer lor 8 weeks In soup kltchena, 
shelters, CONSIDER SOMETHING hospitals, summer camps, social service agenclea, etc•••
D'L:F:F:E:R:ENT 
FOR 

•sCHOLARSHIP 
Of $1400.00 Ia awarded to each student 

•sPONSORED 
by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs aero.. the country 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 7TH 
•tor more Information contact your dorm rep or the 
Center for Social Concerns THIS YEAR!! I 



page 6 OPERATION DESERT STORM Thursday, February 7, 1991 

Iraqi civilians killed 
Iraq claims 150 lost in recent allied raid 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq on Wednesday claimed an allied raid on the city of Nassariyah killed about 150 civilians, and announced it was severing diplomatic ties with six of its enemies. 
It also claimed its artillery killed 40 allied soldiers. 
The reported death toll in the southern city included 35 chil­dren and was the highest in a single raid. Iraqi officials said many homes were hit. 
Baghdad radio, meanwhile, promised an escalation in ter­rorist attacks against Western targets, and called President Bush a liar for saying the United States was not trying to destroy_Iraq. 
The Foreign Ministry an­nounced Wednesday night it was cutting diplomatic ties with the United States, Britain, France, Italy, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. 
The official Iraqi News Agency said Wednesday night that it has learned from diplo­matic sources that Iraqi ar­tillery bombardments killed 40 allied soldiers and wounded 38 near Hafr al-Batin in north­eastern Saudi Arabia. 
Saudi, Syrian, Egyptian and Kuwaiti forces are encamped in Hafr al-Batin. 
A military spokesman on Iraqi radio also said there had 
Training blindfolded 
A U.S. Marine on board the U.S.S. Okinawa somewhere in the Arabian Gulf handles a captured Iraqi AK-47 assualt rifle while blindfolded during a training exercise with weapons belonging to Iraqi soldiers. The war on Iraq by the Allied forces continues. 

been 281 raids and missile at­tacks on residential areas overnight. The spokesman said Iraq shot down six planes and missiles. 
Allied bombs smashed mili­tary and industrial targets during the intensive bombard­ment, and columns of smoke floated over Nassariyah long afterward, said travelers from the city arriving in Baghdad. 
The port city of Basra and other southern towns including Faw, Tannuma, Umm, Zubeir and al-Khasib were hit "every few minutes," according to Iran. 
Iran radio said shockwaves from missile attacks on Basra could be felt 50 miles away in the Iranian city Khorramshahr. 
The Iraqi government news­paper AI-Thawra reported that since the allied raids began Jan. 17, 349 people have been killed in Basra. Iraq previously announced that 428 civilians had died in allied air attacks on Iraqi cities. 
Baghdad radio said the allies "targeted all the scientific, eco­nomic, and cultural installa­tions, went beyond that to tar­get medical installations, places of worship, and sacred sites, and went even further in their criminality to hit residential ar­eas...." 
"They want to expel Iraq 
AP Photo 
from the 20th century," the commentary said. 
The radio warned that a Jihad, or Holy War, "mounted by good Muslims against the imperialist interests will esca­late each day and will signifi­cantly advance the interests of Jihad and thwart the imperial­ist scheme." 
Iraqi officials said allied bombs and missiles rained down on Baghdad, smashing a bridge, hospital, communica­tions center and homes. 
The first resounding explosion of the day echoed through Baghdad shortly after midnight. As on most nights since the war began, residents fled to shelters to ride out the attack that lasted until dawn. 
Iraqi defense officials said four cruise missiles hit residen­tial areas of the capital. 
Two surface-to-surface rockets hit al-Jomhouriya Bridge in downtown Baghdad. It was the second hit on the 33-year-old bridge this week and destroyed it. 
Two other rockets landed near a bus station, officials said, destroying two movie theaters and about 200 shops nearby. 

Baghdad breaks diplomatic ties AP 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq's decision to severe diplomatic ties with the United States and other members of the alliance was expected to complicate the warring parties' means of communication off the battlefield. 
Iraq's Foreign Ministry an­nounced its decision in a broadcast by Iraq radio Wednesday night. 
It also urged other countries to follow Iraq's lead and break relations with the countries: Britain, France, Italy, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, in addition to the United States. 
"We call on the nationalist regimes in the Arab homeland and the governments of Islamic states to take the same step of severing diplomatic relations with the states of the American-Atlantic aggression and the Arab regimes allied with them," the statement said. 
Iraq previously had cut diplomatic ties with the United States after the 1967 Six Day War between Israel and its Arab neighbors. It wasn't until 1982, during the Iran-Iraq War, that full relations were
' 

restored. At the time, the United States was tilting toward Baghdad, then considered a bulwark against expansion by the revolutionary Islamic Republic of Ayatollah Khomeini. 
Iraq ~id not provide details about its decision, such as when its remaining diplomats would be pulled from the six countries. 
Iraq's staff in Washington al­ready was down to about three or four. 
The United States, Britain, Italy and France said they had 
· not received any formal notifi­cation about the reported break. 
But British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd called it "a pretty empty decision." 
"I can't see any point about it. I can't see the significance of 



JPW NEWS! 
The Weekend is Almost Here! 
Juniors: Registration rpackets for JPW will be available at the Sorin Room in LaFortune When? 
Monday February 11 *6pm-10pm Tuesday February 12*6pm-10pm All Juniors attending JPW must pick up their packets during the above hours. 
NEW WEAPONS IN ACTION 
Here are some of the new high-technology weapons systems that are getting their first trial by fire in the Gulf War. 
E·BA JOINT STARS RADAR PLANE 
. 


. 
. 
D 
. ·~ 

~~ 
By flying in a racetrack pattern high over Saudi Arabia, this prototype surveillance jet can spot moving or stationary targets deep within Iraq using new radar technology that sees over the horizon. 
PATRIOT AIR DEFENSE MISSILE SYSTEM 
Deployed at air bases and strategic sites, the Patriot provides the only workable defense against incoming surface-to-surface missiles. The Patriot's radar can lock on to an attacking missile and destroys it in mid-flight. 


CRUISE MISSILE 
Ship-launched cruise missile, capable of hitting distant targets with great precision. 


F·117A "STEALTH" FIGHTER-BOMBER 

Attack jet capable of surprise attacks because it can reach targets without being spotted by air defense radar systems. F-117As led the first raid on Baghdad. 
A·10 THUNDER· BOLT ATTACK 1; FIGHTER v 

Known as the "Warthog," it is heavily armed with weapons for destroying enemy tanks in support of allied ground troops. 
it," Hurd said. 
An Italian Foreign Ministry spokesman said a break would be "especially damaging to Iraq." Italy closed its embassy in Iraq before the war broke out, but the Iraqi Embassy in Rome remained open. 
At the State Department, an official noted that although communications between Baghdad and Washington would be more difficult, U.S. policy didn't need direct diplo­matic channels at the moment. The official also said the Iraqi diplomatic staff probably would remain at the United Nations. 
"The substance of our policy is an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait," the official said on condition of anonymity. "We could certainly tell that without going through an ambassador." 

........ ' ... 


OPERATION DESERT STORM
Thursday, February 7, 1991 page 7 


Muslims in America torn by two allegiances 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
Thn gulf crisis has left many Muslims in America in an awk­ward situation, worrying about tlwir families and friends in the gulf on one hand and their fnnlings of loyalty toward their new eountry on the other. 
Father David Burrell, profes­sor of philosophy and theology, exprnssPd the dilemma by stat­ing, "They love America but tlwir own people are being eaught in the cross-fire of war. Again, they have no love of Saddam Hussein but they do not want their own people bomb1•d." 
The Islamic society of 
Miehiana, a group of Muslim families and students who meet in the Notre Dame Community Center in the University Village for meetings, prayer and Koran school, blame both leaders "blinded by arrogance and power" for allowing innocent victims to suffer. 
"We are not in support of anyone, however we would like to condemn the killing of inno­cent people, on both sides, who are not able to defend them­selves because their senseless, selfish leaders have lost their conscience and have become spiteful and power hungry" wrote the Islamic society in their newsletter. 
The Islamic Society of Michiana questions the justifia­bility of the war. "Thousands of people are dying and no one can say it is for a good cause. Please don't give excuses to jus­tify the war, because there is no justifiable excuse for the killing of human beings. The whole world knows that politics, op­pression, and money is the cause for all this misfortune." 
According to the Islamic Society the war is contrary to the teachings of both Christianity and Islam. "Our main question is: How are these decision makers going to show their faces to God on the day of judgment? Where did all the peaceful religious teachings of both the largest religions go?" 

The Islamic Society of Michiana points to the devas­tating pain people will have to endure because of this war. They ask, "Can anyone feel what the wife of an American pilot, who was the first casualty of the war, feels at this moment. Can anyone anyone feel what it is like to be buried alive in debris, because of the constant bombardment of Baghdad?" 
The society laments, however, that "only the ones who go through these tragedies know what it actually feels like, and no one can imagine the pain 
unless you yoursnlf nxpnrience it... The Islamic society ends the statement by requesting: "Let us convey our true feelings very strongly to our leaders, and let them know that war is not a game. People are not game pieces that they can move any way they desire. War .is a seri­ous step, a step that can sear a person for the rest of their lives." ' 
Burrrell said of the statement by the Islamic society, "It is a poignant example of people caught in the middle. Unlike President Bush, if we are mak­ing Sunday a day of prayer, we should pray for all people." 



Blood drive held as symbol of unity 
By MEREDITH 
McCULLOUGH 
News Writer 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAG) hopes to act in solidar­ity with all those suffering in the Persian Gulf by sponsoring a blood drive to be held on Wednesday, February 13 in Theodore's in Lafortune. 
According to GCAG members, the drive will be a symbolic aet representing participants' sup­port for American troops as well as empathy for all victims of the war. 
AP Photo 

Although the group ultimately

The mail keeps moving 
desires a cease fire, the blood Airmen at McGuire Air Force Base, N.J. load a "K" loader with pallets of mail addressed to the troops in 
drive itself is not designed to 
criticize United States foreign
Saudi Arabia. The volume of mail has declined since war broke out in the Persian Gulf as American heed 
policy. Instead it focuses on a universal concern for the sol­
to requests to stop sending heavy packages and stick to sending letters and cassette tapes. 
diers involved. Members of the GCAG hope

First gas mask developed in 1914 
CLEVElAND (API -The gas masks now being used in the Pnrsian Gulf to guard against clwmical warfarn trace their origins to a "breathing device" patnntnd in 1914 by a self-edu­eated black businessman who also invented the three-light trallk signal. 
The irony of the rnnewed threat of gas warfare first ex­pPriencl~d in World War I isn't lost on (;arrett Morgan's daughtPr-in-law. Willa Morgan. 
"1 was just thinking about that when they were saying a store had sold out of these things and were searching for them all over," Mrs. Morgan said. ller husband, Garrett Jr., and (;arrett Morgan's two other sons are dead. 
"It's like the man said, they are still using the same thing: a charcoal filter. I said, 'Boy, I'm telling you.' It's really amazing,' "she said. 
"When he was in the Deep South he had to pose as an Indian when he demonstrated the mask," she said. A white friend posed as the owner. 
One of his gas masks is on loan from the Detroit Museum of African-American Ilistory to a branch of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Morgan, who lived in Cleveland, applied for a patent for his "breathing device" on Aug. 19, 1912. lie received patent No. 1,113,675 two years later, just five months after the outbmak of World War I and 2 1/2 years before the United that the blood drive can help to generate unity among studentsStates entered the conflict. 
divided by war issues. One
By the time Morgan received 

member stated, "People who
his patent, Germany and are for the war support the

Britain were already mass-pro­

troops and people who areducing gas masks, but the against the war support the
patent is proof that he invented troops too-we meet on theit in America's view, said Tom 

fact that we both support
Hollingsworth with the National them."
Invention Center in Akron. 

The group stressed that the purpose of the drive is not toIn either case, Hollingsworth argue whether or not one is forsaid, "With almost any inven­or against the war, but to bringtion we can find a counterpart to mind all victims and standin Britain or Germany." 
together in solidarity. The South Bend Medical
Mrs. Morgan said the gas 

Foundation's Central Bloodmask used by Gen. John 
Bank, an affiliate of the Ameri­
Pershing's Doughboys was 

can Association of Blood Banks.
copied from the original 

will oversee and run the bloodMorgan design. "They kind of drive. It is from this bank thatredid it a little bit to be more the GCAG has learned most ofcomfortable for the men," she 
the information concerning
said. 

blood donations in relation to 
The Christian Conscience: 
Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 


War and Peace: 
THE BIBLE AND THE KORAN 
Reverend David B. Burrell, C.S.C., 
the war. 
It is a national policy among blood banks that donors can not distinguish nor banks des­ignate where donated blood can be used. Because of this policy it is impossible for a donor to know if his or her blood will be sent to the war. 
As of now, South Bend's blood bank has not been called upon as part of the 1,000 units of blood sent weekly from the United States to Allied forces in the Gulf. The bank emphasizes that it has no way of knowing when or even if such aetion will take place. 
The blood collected at the GCAG drive is therefore merely a symbolic measure. The group stated that although the blood will most likely be usHd in the South Bend community, the drive will still be successful in that "in giving blood we are giving life. The action is a gen­eral support for human life." 
Due to the size of the staff at the blood bank and th•~ time rH­quired to donate blood. the drive will only be able to acco­modate 84 people. According to one GCAG member, this is a significant number eonsidnring the drive will only last one day. 
Students may sign up at the Center for Social Concerns or at designated tables in the dining halls and library. Donation times will be from 8 a.m. to 4 
p.m. on February 1 :J. 
The group is eonfident it will rr.ach its goal of 84 donors and calls students "to remembnr those bleeding in thn Gulf, and to act in fellowship with their suffering." 
In addition to the blood drive, the GCAG will host a publie nd­ucational forum focusing on the issue of vietims of the war. It will be held at 7 p.m. at a place to be announced at a later datiL 
Future GCAG activities will emphasize the group's hope for a cease fire, for continund nn­gotiations, for renAwed sane­lions, and for the replacement of United States troops with United Nations troops. In ac­cordance with these goals the group has plannnd a hospitality lunch at the CSC bAnefitting victims of war and a campaign to convey a strong anti-war message. 

Hesburgh Professor of Arts and Letters 
a 

THE NATIONAl COLLEGE NEWSPAPER
Tonight -February 7 
Joins wlh rhe Obsetwrin hoping for rhe quK:k and safe return o{our

7:30pm. 
loved ones in the Persian Gulf.

LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
The Lord's promise is that He is in our midst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened hy this conl'iCiiun, we beseech the Risen Christ to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen of Peace, to intercede for us and for the peoples of our time... (The Challenge of Peace, ~ 292) 





A CALL TO PRAYER 
FOR PEACE 
This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special f\1ass for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8~ 1991-5:15 P.M. Rev. William B. Simmons, C.S.C. Presider and Homilist Music by the Notre Dame Chancel Choir 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, lsrael, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in this 
war: 

Jed Aldridge Mark Alvear Andrew Ankrom Rick Badger Kyle Bain Peter Barlock Andy Barlow Brandy Bartolone Todd Bentley Joseph Bile David Blain Eric Bohdan Brian Bott Michael Box Michael Boyd Joey Brenner Chuck Broderick Prue Brownley Joe Bystedt John Carey Pat Carr Jim Chapple Danny Cluxton Steve Clear Michael Coates John Coniffe Philip Coghlan Marty Cox Steve Cox Brett CrenwelgeJean Crutcher Tom Cummings Jamie Deets Peter Deperro Sean Dillon Barney Dodd Rev. Wm. Dorwart Tommy Duke Tommy Dyke Peter Van Es Dianne Fain Janet Fierst 
David Gagnon Brian Gannon Dozier Gardner Sean Garrett Jim Gass Mark Gatto Carl Gebo George N. Gee John Gerth Beau Giggy Jim Gillen 
Christine Glavin James Goebel Steven Gonzales Paul Goodman Mary Pat Govekar Joey Graber Chris Hashem Peter Haynes Bob Heinke Bob Henks Edward Hiar Patrick Hirl Mico Holguin Dennis Hollingshed Kipper Hull Allen Hunt James Jenista Russ Jenkins Jeff Johansen Bruce Jones Mike Jones Patrick Kelleher 
Mike Knott Giovanni Kotoriy Jeff Kozlovich Denny Krembel John Lanan Matthew Laven Paul Leeds Brad Linsley Simon Lissner 
Randy Livingston John Lriesdale Ronnie 1-.ack Brian Maher William Marchant Pat Markivitch Javier Martinez Vic Masserelli Bob McCarthy Kelly McGinley Scott Mcintyre Matt McKenna Marty McNicholas Joel Miller Jeff Mirer Paul Moberly Teddy Molina John Mullane Thomas Mullen Kenneth Murphy Peter Murphy Pete Najera Dennis Navarre Arthur Navarro Alexander Navarro Steve Neary Kevin O'Brien Michael O'Leary Odie Van Opdorp Benjamin Pangelinan Steve Peelor Scott Peters Andrew Peterson Kevin Poling Tom Porter Mark Rakow Peter Read Kathleen Regan Sean Reilly Jonathan Reinebold Brian Rixon Tim Royston 
Elizabeth Ruiz 
Brad Sandars 
Dan-Scarnavack Matt Scarnavak Michael Schierberl Brian SchillPr Dan Schneider Martin Schubert Terry Schwemper Joe Schweninger Marty Sears Tim Shanahan Kevin Sheehan Simon Shimble James Van Sickland Mike Sly Michael Spitz Brett Steele Michael Stefanchik Danny Stoeffel Greg Stricklin Anthony Sullivan Joe Sullivan Jerome Swanson Mark Szkudlarek Pat Timon Kelly Townsend George Uzarralde Jimmy Wagner Don Warmke Chuck Wehnes 
John Winkler Pete Witty Frank Zimmerman Roger Zuidema 
Please let us know of additional names missing from this list. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 103 Hesburgh Library 





Business 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 page 9 

Upward Economy 
Budget Director Richard Darman gestures while testifying on Capi­tol H1ll Tuesday before the Senate Budget Committee. _______j 
Separate tax filings urged 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Income taxes putting a strain on your marriage? Consider a trial sep­aration. 
No, the financial experts who make that recommendation anm't suggesting that anybody get a "tax divorce" or otherwise break up a happy home. 
They urge couples to give some thought to filing separately, rather than jointly, when doing their federal income tax returns. 
Of the two methods available to most married taxpayers, fil­ing a joint return is generally considered the more advanta­geous and convenient way. 
But if a family's finances are at all complicated, advisers say. why not do the calculations separately as though you were going to go the "married filing separately" route? Then you can compare the bottom-line tax bills from both, and opt for the one that costs the least. 
By COLLEEN CONLEY 
News Writer 
A group of faculty members and students gathered yester­day at the Center for Social Concerns to hear ND Law Pro­fessor Barbara Pick's lunch lecture on how to handle sexual harassment at the workplace. 
Pick began by outlining the legal view of sexual harass­ment, which she said can be defined in one of two ways. In the first type of misconduct, the 
perpetrator delivers  a  job­ 
related ultimatum.  In the  sec­ 
ond type,  the instigator  cre­ 

ates a "hostile environment," she said. 
In both instances, the effect of unwelcome advances can be damaging to the worker's job ability, she said. 
Within the context of ha­rassment by ultimatum, work­ing women are often made to understand either that their acquiescence will procure a raise or promotion, or that their rejection of sexual advances will result in adverse job action, Pick explained. 
Less explicit than ultimatums can be the harassment which creates a hostile environment, usually in the form of "inappropriate comments on how you look or comments of a sexual nature," she noted. 
She went on to say that the conventional perception of su­pervisors and bosses as the most likely instigators of sexual 


Fink speaks on harassment at work 
harassment is not necessarily true. 
Anyone with job authority over a woman or even her co­workers could be guilty as well. In a university setting, harass­ment could also originate with administration workers or even students, she added. 
"The employer is responsible for making sure the environ­ment is not sexually hostile ... " she continued, meaning that the employer must act accord­ingly so that the woman is not continually subject to a situa­tion which may effect her job performance. 
She cited a recent Florida case in which a judge ruled in favor of women who objected to suggestive pictures that coworkers had hung in the workplace. The judge found that the women were indeed being hampered on the job be­cause they were being regarded not as coworkers, but as sex objects. 
An employer is not legally ac­countable for isolated instances of harassment unless the behavior is deemed "severe and pervasive" enough that it has interfered with an employee's ability to do her job, Pick said. 
Therefore, she said, women should be urged to take action of their own because "by sitting there and doing nothing, you are indeed...sending a mes­sage." 
She said women should make "low-key comments to suggest that [sexual remarks) have no place in the work environment." Along these lines would be statements such as 'That's inappropriate-don't do it again,' she said. 
In the event that such efforts 
prove to be fruitless, women 
should not hesitate to report 
repeat offenders to their em­
ployers, according to Pick. 
She said that there is a spe­cific "mechanism in place" at Notre Dame to facilitate report­ing sexual harassment and en­couraged women to use this if necessary. 
Any harassment deriving from university staff should be reported to the Director of Human Resources. Harass­ment by faculty members should be brought before the Office of the Provost, and ha­rassment by students should be addressed to the Vice President for Student Affairs, according to Pick. 
Furthermore, she said that if the person to whom the woman is taking her complaint happens to be the instigator, the woman should not be deterred. Instead she should seek out the next person on the ladder. Pick added that the university's policy contains a provision for confidentiality. 
She said that the university aims not only to stop harass­ment on an individual level but on a broad level and reminded women that "the university can't legitimately stop some­thing it doesn't know about." 
,

CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS , ., ., Select Your Apartment Now 
Furnished apartments 
. . 
JaCUZZI 

24-hour laundry 

-professional management 

-indoor swimming pool 
-tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 
1 1 

-shuttle bus 1 
I 
~ 

1 

For information call 272-1441 
[ 
r r 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 7, 1991 

page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor.•..................•.. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .....••••Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .•.....••••.••.Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager •••••••.••.. Amy Eckert Sports Editor •..........•...•.•••. Greg Guffey Production Manager •••••......•.Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor........••.•.••.. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr •••.Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ••..•.....•..•.••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director •••.••••.•.........•• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •.••....Corinne Pavlis Controller...........•••......... Chris Anderson Art Director.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Prayer without information Soldier's letter shows how important our support is 
and action is ineffective 
Dear Editor: it is something to look forward Dear Editor: flags and begin waving them? and onto our feet. We must seek In the past few months, Notre to! Here we've got nothing to 
These days, many people are Or would we act creatively a variety of news sources-BBC, Dame students have read in look forward to, except return­praying for peace. Since the against the gross injustice being computer mail, PeaceNet, The Observer articles and let­ing home and for that there is week the war began, members committed against the mouse? foreign radio-ones that offer ters to the editor about the absolutely no knowing! Thingsof Pax Christi-Notre Dame have Now do not read me wrong. us more than fancy maps and Persian Gulf crisis. Screaming are pretty much the same, 
been meeting every day to pray Saddam Hussein is a thug. The scant information about what is throughout these writings are weather is hot during the day,for peace; the Gulf Crisis Action atrocities he has authorized are really happening. pleas for peace and the end of cool at night, we eat, we exer­
r 
Group sponsored a vigil last reprehensible. He is not a the American build-up in the cise, we write, we pray! And of r Friday at the Grotto from 7 p.m. mouse. However, if you note the Those who believe this war is Middle East. course we get the chance tor to 7 a.m.; Father Warner called number of sorties we've sent justifiable and necessary have But it seems that the people dream a lot. Dream of what?r on us to pray; even President compared to the few Scuds they an obligation to stand up and protesting the war do not have Dreams of WAR, PEACE and
r 
Bush, the man who led America have launched, the analogy state their case-not just wave a definite solution to the LOVE. We see our fears and,r into this war, announced a holds: there is heinous injustice their flag. But first they must be situation and do not seem to face our worries. We take a ~ National Day of Prayer for U.S. being committed in our re­properly informed on several understand that sometimes war hard look at ourselves and look r troops Feb. 3. sponse. issues: the history of U.S. mili­is necessary for peace to occur. at our self worth. We review our
, 
These efforts are tary interventions aimed at lib­Now, America is at war with lives, our glories and our commendable, for the underly­We may never see official eration (i.e. El Salvador); the Iraq, and these people continue failures. Some place a wall of ing causes have spiritual di­statistics which represent the complex socio-political dynam­to spend their time protesting. strength as a barrier to deflect mensions, but I am afraid to say bloody truth of this useless war. ics of the Middle East; and the Why? Demonstrating against their fears, this just adds tur­that I am beginning to smell Personally, I have not bought anesthetizing power of prayer the war is only fueling Saddam moil. Many young men (18 or opium. the "surgical strike" myth. I see devoid of real information. If all Hussein's fire and dividing a 19 years old) come into this Is it enough for Christians and our actions more as a we do is watch Peter Jennings country. Why not accept we are medical station with self-in­all people committed to sledgehammer pounding a fly. and read Newsweek, we are at war and support those over flicted wounds (knife or bullet)conversion to merely pray at a What were the Christians of lacking substantial information. in Saudi Arabia? It may be hard trying to escape this place. So time like this? A Turkish news Europe and the U.S. doing as The press has been kind enough to understand supporting afraid that they may die in the agency announced, after just Hitler was liquidating Jews, to inform us that they are not something as ugly as war, but upcoming months, they were four days of bombing, that there Catholics and others he consid­informing us, telling us they will the troops need us. willing to put a bullet through were 150,000 Iraqi casualties; ered less than human? Many photograph neither caskets nor their own thigh or a knife into Greenpeace recently estimated were waging war-trying to de­soldiers injured in battle. For the past three months, we their bellys. It's frightening to 140,000 Iraqi deaths. And now feat violence with violence. And have been writing to soldiers just sit here and think of Death. 
U.S. military authorities have what were the others doing, Those who believe this war is over in Saudi Arabia, all of I believe that is why we do act,banned the press from those unable or unwilling to unjustifiable have a similar whom we have never met. We talk, and behave in a rude,photographing flag-draped take up arms? I dare say they obligation: to rise up, make have only corresponded with stupid sort of way. It is, in a coffins as they multiply at Dover were praying: praying for their argument and exercise them by letters, pictures, and way, our escape. Just as your
Air Force Base. These grim peace. A noble effort, but by it­their patriotic privilege and tapes. From their correspon­letters for me are an escapestatistics and U.S. press self-without real information their Christian duty to resist this dence, we have learned only a from here!! censorship make us question and consequent action-a use­war with all the peaceful little bit about what is going on Love, Dennis" 
whether it is enough to kneel less enterprise. strength they can muster. in Saudi Arabia and a tremen­down and whisper a prayer to Mother Teresa has said that Positions for or against this dous amount about these out­We hope this excerpt has God. For many, it seems the prayer without action is no war cannot be adequately de­standing individuals. This im­shown the importance of sup­
only response. Yet, I think more prayer at all. Prayer lacking fended on the basis of prayer personal war has become per­porting the war and our sol­is required. subsequent action is like a lion alone. Those who pray without sonal to us. We would like to diers involved in it. They need without teeth or an eagle with­adequate information and ac­give an excerpt, which has us. Do not neglect them. 
If we chanced upon an ele­out claws. tion are like a toothless lion touched us greatly, from one of phant stepping on a mouse's What more can we do, then, who will slowly starve to death. the letters received from our Sara Kubik tail, what would we do? Would as conscientious people? We new friends in Saudi Arabia: Diana Dow we hold a prayer vigil for the can inform and educate our­Thomas Michael Esch,CSC Lisa Tako elephant to get off the mouse's selves so that when the vigil is Moreau Seminary "When do you guys take your Breen-Phillips Hall tail? Would we go buy elephant-over we can get off our knees Feb.2,1991 finals? Late February? At least Feb.1,1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

-~----­

-----------------. 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 page 11
Viewpoint 

Athletics compatible with the goals of education 
By Suzanne FitzGerald 5 years) for students receiving AP surveyors point to the 1988 justly from an inaccurate and college athletics. Last week, I Guest Columnist football related financial aid All-American football players, poor image. Certainly, critics spoke with Mr. Hoger was 50.3 percent. Compared to most of whom graduated, some overlook the benefits associated Valdiserri, Notre Dame's 
Thn topic for the rirst two similar statistics compiled by with honors and about a third with collegiate athletics. For Associate Director of Athletics rounds of the 1991 Iceberg the U.S. Department of with B or better cumulative instance, many of the in Sports Information. lie views Dnbatns is, "Hesolved: That big­Education, 47 percent of males averages. aforementioned players, who big-time athletics as a valuable time athletics play a d1~trimental attending public institutions and have proven themselves capable component of a university, role in American colleges and 52.9 percent of males attending One widely-purported detri­students, would not have been which he conceptualizes as ex­universitins." I hold the negative private institutions graduated ment associated with the exis­able to attend college without tending beyond the classroom. position, that is, that big-time within six years. Notably, the tence of high-profile athletic the scholarship revenues gen­Mr. Valdiserri asserts that col­athletics are not detrimental to government study was con­programs is "scandal." Drugs erated by big-time programs. Of legiate athletics are analogous higher education. To establish ducted after six years, while the are commonly involved. the 1988 All-American. the AP to organizations like the theater this. I will show that athletics do CFA survey was based upon However, upon closer examina­report states that, "Several club in providing participating not detract from the mission of graduation statistics after five tion, it must be recognized that players said they probably students with extracurricular ~ a university, but, rather. that years. drugs are a pervasive societal wouldn't have attended college activities and others with they are quite compatible with Related to this issue of aca­problem, rather than a specific if it wasn't for football, and entertainment for a fee. Clearly, the notion of a university. demics, it is frequently, though ill only attributable to collegiate some said they wouldn't have no one questions the validity of 
As defined by Webster, the wrongly, asserted that the ath­athletics. Therefore, athletics graduated if they hadn't been so such groups at universities. primary purposn of a university letes in the big-time programs should not be indicted for the concerned about maintaining Furthermore, Mr. Valdiserrii is to confer degrees. Keeping do not achieve the level of per­existence of these and other their eligibility." Washington calls the thrill, drama and this in mind. the presence of formance in the classroom harmful elements, which are State's Mike Utley said, "I passion of competition big-time athletics within such which non-athletes attain. Yet, more appropriately reflective of probably would have been a "wholesome" and valued since an institution does not hinder in a recent study, the American the woes of society at large. manual laborer if it hadn't been ancient times. Indeed, in Plato's thn vi tainment of this end. Association of Collegiate Further, just because violations for football, but now I'll get a Republic, Socrates' guardian Opponents will argue otherwise, Registrars and Admissions arise within the collegiate ath­degree." class was to receive the finest but, as Dick Schultz. executive Officers revealed that, " ... the letic system does not necessarily education -one which consisted 
dirnctor of the NCAA and freshman participation in var­make big-time athletics More broadly, big-time athlet­of "gymnastic." Thus, we are columnist Chuck Neinas agree, sity athletics has no adverse ef­detrimental to universities in ics enhance universities aca­compelled to include athletics in " ... college athletics are better fect on academic progress." general. Here, an analogy may demically by attracting media a full education. Whether the than their public image." To Moreover, the study found that, prove insightful. In writing pa­attention and national recogni­goal of a university is simply to begin with, claims that student " ... athletes performed as well as pers, academic dishonesty can tion. Inevitably, these institu­award degrees, or, as Reverend athletns arn lnss likely to other freshmen or better across occur, but surely this would not tions receive more applicants E. William Beauchamp, CSC, graduate than regular students all areas of academic progress, mean that paper writing is and, accordingly, can require states, " ... the one mission of the arn blatantly false. According to such as hours attempted, hours detrimental. more stringent admission crite­university .. .is to educate our Susan Hiller's article, "Notre earned, grade point average, In brief, it has been shown ria. The result is a highly gifted young people," athletics Dame Graduates Entire Class of and in returning for the that the participants in big-time student body. Notre Dame is an undoubtedly mesh with these 1987," the results of the 1988 sophomore year." In fact, an athletics are qualified students excellent example of this appeal ends. college football Association Associated Press survey who fulfill the aim of a to great scholars as well as (CFA) study shows that the indicated that, "Good players university, the conferral of de­great athletes. Suzanne FitzGerald serves on overall graduation rate (within and good grades go together." grees. Also, it has been ob­A closing argument offers a the Iceberg Debates Standing 
To support this statement, the served that athletics suffer un-fresh perspective on the issue of Committee. 

College athletics' role is currently imbalanced 
By Michael Swope tion of the academic adminis­season tickets, am an in­supposedly founded and case for this argument: Guest Columnist tration and when Perles' con­veterate Detroit Red Wings charged with the mission of Oklahoma football. Big-time tract as athletic director comes hockey fan and make annual providing quality academic athletics need not mean only 
Last November. two seats on up for renewal later this year, excursions to Opening Day at programs. But academic defi­football or basketball; hockey thn popularly 1~lected Board of the administration of President Tiger Stadium. I'm a sports nut. ciencies have nowhere near the and baseball are just as impor­Trustees at Michigan State John DiBiaggio will once again My resolve that big-time college attention-grabbing power that tant at some schools. University were to be decided at divert its attention from the athletics is detrimental to NCAA investigations do. Athletics and academics can tlw polls. When Nov. 6, 1990 university's academic mission. American colleges and uni­Athletics have become the dog, mix, as long as the proper per­bngan. the Michigan State gov­Athletic department problems versities is a result of the many and academics are now the tail. spective is maintained. That is erning board had a 5-3 in the Big Ten are not confined abuses perpetrated by and for Few alumni are concerned not being done presently. The I>mnocratic majority. Whnn that to Michigan State. Three Big college athletics, and the inor­about classes as long as the sports that can unify a com­day ended, the board had a 5-3 Ten schools have programs dinate attention paid to athletics football team is winning. munity are increasingly tearing Hnpuhlican majority. The currently on NCAA probation, by academic administrations. schools apart and bringing burning issUf~: th1~ conduct of with a fourth (Minnesota) about One of the biggest problems is Instead of teams begin per­administrations down. The thn athlt~tic department and the to join them. The Minnesota the amount of time academic ceived as sporting representa­sports that can symbolize a naming of {;eorge Perles as both investigation has already administrators must spend on tives of academic institutions, school can stigmatize it as well athlntic dirnctor and head caused repercussions at Notre their athletic departments. teams have become entities (see under: Miami Hurricanes, football coach. Dame, with more to the story When a new coach for a major unto themselves, complete with or Southern Methodist 
That was only the latest in a yet to be written. The Southwest sport is needed, the college marketers to peddle team logos. Mustangs). On balance, athletics long-running series of arrests, Conference has been infamous president is a key person in the Admittedly, school logo now have more negative in­accusations and feuds that have for athletic improprieties for decision. If a player gets ar­marketing provides a significant fluence upon our academic in­doggnd the Michigan State years and is now rent with rested or has problems, the amount of money for students, stitutions than the positive role football team and campus. If dissension and defection of president or a dean faces the but only as long as successful they can play. these problems were being schools to other conferences. press. One cause for this is due teams can continue to milk the handled by the football coach Before you start thinking l am (of course) to the large amounts cash cow. and athletic director, there anti-sports, let m,e assure you of revenue collegiate athletics The story of abuses in the Michael J. Swope Is a would be few complaints. that it is not the case. l am the provide, but, beyond this, the name of athletics are so nu­graduate student of history and However, these problems have proud owner of University of mission of colleges has become merous and easy to find that I serves as policy analyst for the spillnd ovnr to occupy the atten-Michigan and Detroit Drive muddled. feel no need to enumerate them. Iceberg Debates Standing 
(Arena Football League) football Colleges and universities are Two words make a convincing Comml«ee. 
LETTERS 

Attack on professor's enlightening lecture shows ignorance 

tN comes entirely from reading condemned it. Mr. Miller states the people and governments of says "we want the West to leave ignored. The Observer article about the that "none of Professor the Middle East. It was the us alone," she is speaking on Professor Talhami's presen­Gulf Crisis Action Group ses­Talhami's statements are Arab governments which behalf of the populations of the tation was enlightening and sion. Miller's assumption that correct." Surely, a native of the sought U.S. support and con­Arab countries, who resent the thought-provoking and does not Professor Talhami is a man re­Middle East must know quite a tribute to the forces arrayed lack of respect shown to them deserve to be attacked from a 
flects a sexist attitude and is bit about this situation. against Iraq. The citizens of by the nations of the West. position ignorant of her indicative of his ignorance of In his claims that the Arab Arab countries, now seen Furthermore, Mr. Miller statements and her gender. 
-

Talhami's presentation. people support U.S. interven­marching in support of Iraq, asserts that the Palestinian is­
Contrary to Miller's asser­tion in the Gulf, Mr. Miller make it clear that the policies of sue is completely unrelated to Peter Bajzek tions, Professor Talhami never overlooks the fact that Arab governments do not re­the invasion of Kuwait. Tim Hemstreet justified the invasion of Kuwait Professor Talhami was clear in flect the will of their citizens. Certainly Saddam Hussein did Stanford Hall by Iraq and, indeed, making the distinction between Thus, when Professor Talhami not invade Kuwait to aid the Jan.31,1991 








Accent 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 page 12 
Does 'Davis Rules!' deserve its exclamation point? 
An even better question might be 'Who cares?' 
A major problem exists when dealing with the negative review of a television series. If a reader has enough interest to even begin reading this article, the negative review may possi­bly destroy this interest. A posi­tive review will entice the reader to continue and to dis­cover the merits of the program in question. 
When the reader discovers that a program has been roundly criticized, he or she will most likely not continue. If the program is bad, what else needs to be said? 

Marc Johnson 
To Be Continued... 
"Davis Rules!" is one program that most definitely warrants a bad review, but do not stop reading. This review will use "Davis Rules!" as a basis for a list of rules which will eliminate the need to watch another bad television series. 
1) Do not watch television programs that air on ABC on Tuesday evenings at 8:30. This rule differs with each passing year, but it definitely holds true this season. This time slot is currently occupied by "Davis Rules!" a program of less merit than the "Brady Bunch." 
2) Do not watch any program starring Jonathan Winters. "Davis Rules!" has Winters placed in a starring role as Gunny Davis, the patriarch of the Davis clan, around whom this series is based. Winters is just not funny, and ABC made a tremendous mistake in ever thinking that he was. 

The highlight of Winters' ca­reer may have been his appear­ance on the "Scooby Doo Show." He played this role in drag, and I think it worked. 
Gunny Davis' humor is not terribly creative. "Did you hear about the trip this old couple took for their anniversary? The paper says that they lived in a duplex all their lives and now they're going downstairs." Did anyone laugh at this joke? Win­ters and Gunny Davis did. 
3) Do not watch any series with children characters who are as bland as unbuttered white toast. Gunny Davis lives with his son (Randy Quaid) and his children. 
Quaid does an adequate job in his role as a widower and principal of a local grade school, but his sons are totally lacking in personalities. These roles seem to serve the sole purpose of human laugh tracks for Winter and Quaid's really pitiful humor. 
How many sons does Quaid have? What are their names? Who cares? This show is not in­teresting enough to make the viewer answer these questions. 
4) Do not watch any program which airs after the Super Bowl. "Davis Rules!" played to the post-game audience, but no one actually watched it. This time slot has traditionally been used to plug weak series which have been thrown together to replace programs already axed by the network. "Davis Rules!" fits this characterization in ev­ery respect. 

5) Do not watch a situation comedy that attempts to de­velop a serious love story as one of its plots. During one particular episode of "Davis Rules!" plots involving harass­ment of one of the Davis boys, teachers assisting in busing policies, and Quaid's romantic 


Bob Marley & The Wailers' greatest hits highlighted in new compilation 

situation were introduced. Why does Davis rule? Is the 
The Davis boys are just not family really cool, or are they in full characters, and busing is control? This article cannot not an issue with tremendous answer these questions, nor the comic potential. What is left? question of the necessity of the Quaid's passionate kisses? exclamation point in the title Busing was contained more "Davis Rules!" comic potential. Hopefully, these six rules will 
6) Finally, do not to watch a assist in future selection of program with a really stupid ti­quality time in front of the tele­tle. "Twin Peaks" was the name vision, but they cannot realisti­of the setting in which the ac­cally be expected to work for tion of that particular series every series. For this reason, occurred. "thirtysomething" is the reader will occasionally be the approximate age of the forced to return to this column characters of that particular for another scathing review of series. a terrible new television series. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Accent Writer 
Though Bob Marley died nearly ten years ago, his popularity lives on, thanks to releases of Marley compilations such as the classic Legend. A new retrospective of unreleased material puts a novel twist on the Bob Marley & The Wailers collection. 
Talkin' Blues is the latest step in Tuff Gong Records' efforts to digitally remaster and re-release the entire Marley collection. 
Taken primarily from a live performance on San Francisco's KSAN in 1973, the album features alternate versions of such Wailers standards as "Get Up Stand Up" and "I Shot The Sheriff," as well as songs such as "Walk the Proud Land," which have never before been released. 
Interestingly, one of the best songs on the album was neither written nor sung by Marley. Fellow Wailer Peter Tosh performed both of these duties for "You Can't Blame the Youth," and released the song as a solo effort. This marks the first time the track has appeared on a Wailers album. 
"Am-A-Do" is another song on which Marley takes a back seat. The stars of these songs are undoubtedly the I-Threes, Marley's backup vocal group, made up of Rita Marley, Judy Mowatt, and Marcia Griffiths. Their voices give texture to the song, a typical reggae romp. 
The music never takes a bad turn, from the mellowness of "Talkin' Blues" to the upbeat, fun mood of "Kinky Reggae." 
The most interesting aspect of this collection, however, is not the music, but the voice of Marley, taken from a 197 5 interview with Jamaican disc jockey Dermot Hussey. Excerpts from the two-hour interview are included on Talkin' Blues as segueways between songs. 
Marley's comments, with topics ranging from the formation of the original Wailers to the opportunities lacking in Jamaica, give a unique perspective of the artist's mindset. But be forewarned that it is difficult for the untrained ear to understand Marley, because of his thick Jamaican accent. 
To understand Marley, it is better to listen to his music. He protests police treatment of Rastafarians in "Burnin' and Lootin'," and sings candidly of his Rasta beliefs in "Rastaman Chant." 
Indeed, Marley was a protest singer on par with Bob Dylan, and though he sings of lifestyles alien to many Americans, his following in the U.S. still grows. 
Two of the songs which were primarily responsible for the popularization of Marley in the United States are included on this album. "I Shot the Sheriff," the Marley-penned song covered by Eric Clapton, and "Get Up, Stand Up," Marley's anthem of rebellion, are both included in previously unreleased versions. 
The performance of "I Shot the Sheriff" featured here is taken from the same series of concerts at London's Lyceum featured on Live! The track on Walkin' Blues is a more emotional rendering of the classic, and is an exclamation point at the end of a great album. 
The Observer 
page 13

Thursday, February 7,1991 


Santiago, Aldrete lead off arbitration hearings; two Reds settle 
NEW YOHK (AP) -While the first two arbitration cases of 19Y 1 were argued in Los Angeles, eight players settled on new contracts Wednesday with Dave Valle and Billy Hatcher getting multiyear deals. 
Catcher Benito Santiago and San Diego went before arbitra­tor Hots Valtin while outfielder Mike Aldrete and the Montreal Expos argued before arbitrator John Caraway. 
Santiago is asking for $2.5 million and would set an arbi­tration record if he wins, top­ping Don Mattingly's $1,975,000 in 1987. San Diego if offering Santiago $1.65 million. 
The catcher made $1.25 mil­lion last year as a winner in ar­bitration. The Padres had of­fered $750,000 for 1990. 
Aldrete, who made $297,500 last season, is asking for a raise to $510,000 while Montreal is offering $350,000. 
Valle is guaranteed $3.6 mil­lion under his new deal: a $200,000 signing bonus, $600,000 in 1991, $1.3 million in 1992 and $1.5 million in 1993. The catcher, who made $510,000 in 1990, can make up to $500,000 more each season if he plays 130 games. 

Hatcher, who set a World Series record with seven con­secutive hits, agreed to a a two­year contract worth $3.2 mil­lion with a club option for 1993. The outfielder made $690,000 last season. 
Third baseman Chris Sabo quadrupled his salary when he agreed with Cincinnati at $1.25 million, a raise of $990,000. 
Catcher Mike La Valliere and the Pittsburgh Pirates settled at $925,000, a raise of $270,000. He also can earn $110,000 more each year in performance bonuses. 
The Observer accepts classitleds every business day lrom 1 o a.m. to 3:30p.m. at tho Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all 


Classifieds 
spaces. 

SUMMER JOBS PLEASE HELP I I NEED JUST ONE TICKET TO Stop laughing and just kiss mel HONEY BUNCHES OF OATS­COUNSELORS/SUMMER THE INDIGO GIRLS CONCERT I YOU ARE NOT MY GIRLFRIEND 
NOTICES I 
CHILDREN'S Affordable 5,4,2 bedrm. homes WILL PAY$$ OR MIGHT STILL AND YOU NEVER WILL BE. CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP for '91-'92. Beach HAVE ONE TICKET TO "LIVING WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK LOVE, YOUR FUTURE HUSBAND SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, V-ball ct., washer/dryer, COLOUR" THIS FRIDAY FOR '911 CANCUN FROM $459. 
TYPING AVAILABLE TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST sale area. 288-5653 or TRADE OPTION. JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON'T 
287-4082 HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE 234-3831 CALL PAUL AT 232-9646 MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL THE BAR THE BAR THE BAR FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 1-800-427-7710. ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, Charlie and the Chocolate 
NY TIMES, used and new books BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, Factory I Pandora's Books 233-2342 DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, ADOPTION: Christian couple corner of NO ave. & Howard FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, LOST AT LAS VEGAS PARTY ON seeks to adopt white infant. NOW SHOWING II II 

FOR SALE 

10-5:30 everyday GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, MARION STREET: A white and Financially secure home in HORSEBACK-ENGLISH. green hat with an "I" on it. II you suburban area. Expenses paid. When: Sunday, Feb. 10 JUGGLING, KARATE, TKT. FR. SB TO PHILA FOR have it, please return it to Dan (234-Legal/confidential. Answer our ad Time: 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
WORD PROCESSING -Term LACROSSE, NATURE, 3/10/91 -$80. CALL RUTH 283-1048). Sentimental value. and answer our prayers. Please Where Carroll Auditorium papers, reports, letters, etc. PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, 2876. call Harry and Melody collect at @SMC Expenenced legal secretary. ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, (219) 259-0585 any time. 
(616) 699-7387. ROPES, SAILBOARDING, CLUB 23 The story we loved as a kid is now SAILING, SCUBA. SOCCER, GIBSON EPIPHONE coming to life I Charlie won a TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, BASS GUITAR Daily Specials. New addition: FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY Golden Ticket® and so can you I 
Want a great job? WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: BRAND NEW, GREAT ACTION I The Coffee House CALLING VANESSA 2729305 With the chance to win a VCR, 12 Then you need a great RESUME I CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, BEST OFFER. Bring your books and come Barnaby's Pizzas, and a $50 Gift Only $20 including 25 copies & MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) study, or just come socialize. certificate to the Bookstore I But envelopes on quality paper. 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR CALL EDDIE@ 272-8198 Open daily 4pm-3am. NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX there's two ways to win: MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 1 ) Buy "THE BAR" from an 
1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. AnTostal '91 Rep. 
(617) 934-6536. FOR SALE : Sound System lor CLUB 23 $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC 10. 2) Answer the questions placed bar band. In Good Shape. ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD. right here to win a $100 check from 

( LOST/FOUND I 
Reasonable Price. Call: Daily Specials. New addition: CALL 277-6245. AnTostal!l TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER Kevin X3498 or John X1166. The Coffee House CHILDREN'S CAMPS­Bring your books and come THE BAR THE BAR THE BAR 
LOST: Gold Gaurdian Angel Pin NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN study, or just come socialize. I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8 Call Great sentimental value WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN Open daily 4pm-3am. Missy at 2577 $$ 
Call Adrienne 284-5223 THE NORTHEAST. GOOD FOR SALE: FEISTY -Good luck I All your SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, Smith Corona Personal Word friends are behind you. Any time TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN Processor (System 14) CLUB 23 SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA I you feel nervous, just take a deep 
Lost -Silver necklace in CSC on CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, Contains typewriter XE 6100 Fun in the sun on the beach in our breath and think: "PIPE...." 1/30. Reward. Prof. O'Brien 239-P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA w/dictionary; when hooked to Daily Specials. New addition: NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated 7312. 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL monitor becomes word processor. The Coffee House AAA excellent. Call now 1-904­
OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 2 in 11 Bring your books and come 252-1412. The Mardi Gras Mambo, Mambo, 
GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY Interested? Staph @ 4322 study, or just come socialize. Mambo, Mardi Gras Mambo LOST-POLO silver 10543 (914) 381-5983. Open daily 4pm-3am. --<!own in New Orleansllll Let's w1re rimmed glasses Typical N.D. guy who happens sing it right while we still canlllllll! no case please call EXERCISE BIKE: USED ONLY to be gay, seeks same for Tim x1649 TWICE CALL 1559 CLUB 23 friendship. I have roommates 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK too, so discretion is 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. Daily Specials. New addition: important. Thanksl MARK, LOST: Green and white baseball hat CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. FOR SALE NEW COUCH AND The Coffee House P.O. BOX 974, N.D., IN. 46556. w1th an "I." Lost Friday night at Las CHAIR. CALL X4780 Bring your books and come Vegas Party. Call Dan at234-1048 study, or just come socialize. 
~ 
Open daily 4pm-3am. HELP-I need a ride to EXPERIENCED TAEKWONDO SANDUSKY, OH or anywhere INSTRUCTION FOR 16 YEAR Furnished bedroom in Turtle along OH TURNPIKE 2/8-2/10 
FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 OLD MALE ATHLETE. CALL 277 Creek town house. CLUB 23 Lisax3882 
mJ 
N1euland. Call x4530. 4316 EVENINGS. Available immediately! Daily Specials. New addition: 

LAST CHANCE! 
FOUND: Scarf in front of Library. The Coffee House Who the hell is playing at Call x4530. Call Tim @ X2506 Bring your books and come Club 23 Thursday? I 
FOR RENT 
study, or just come socialize. ??????????? 
Open daily 4pm-3am. Who?l FOUND: Eyeglass Case, found TICKETS ) ??????? Sat. Feb. 2 on path from BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Flanner to NOH behind PW. 219-291-7153. Call X1583to Identify. I need an Indigo Girls Ticket X VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS "GOOD QUESTION" LIVE AT 
1930 VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS CLUB 23 -THURSDAY 10 PM HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to 
DAYTONA BEACH ....... $ff9*
Found: -lady's ring at ACC campus. Only $150/month. Call It's not too early to submit your before break Paul 287-2159. NEEDED: 3 Syracuse b-balltix classifieds for Valentine's Day. Don't Wie vial seltner dann als Gold, SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,,,$f:Z9* -scapular outside 234-2728 (rick) wait until the last minute -come in Menschen uns geneigt und hold. Howard anytime SOON. Nicht wahr, maine Chorbruder? STEAMBOAT ....,$96* Call Dan @1772 to identify 3 Bedroom Homes. 
FORT LAUDERDALE ,.,...,$f~7*
Walk to campus. 232-3616 DON'T FORGETII Notre Dame's Metal Band
PERSONALS ] PANAMA CITY BEACH ...... $f24*


WANTED 
UPS YOUR BOXES Notre Dame's Best Band THIS WEEK FOR Notre Dame's ONLY Band CORPUS CHRISTl I 
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 VALENTINE'S DAY DELIVERY MUSTANG ISLAND ....... $fQB* SUMMER JOBS Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776 DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & HEAVEN'S TRAIL ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS FLORIDA 6 DAYS $299! THE COUNTRY HARVESTER HILTON HEAD ISLAND """'$ff2* PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE Live at The Oar House 
DDN'T WAIT 'TIL IT'S TOO LATE 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Furnished Bedrooms and Shared $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-239-6714 (US31-2 min. N. of N.D.) 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY

NEAR LAKE PLACID Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. 800-638-6786. CALL 1-800-343-8373. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month Fri. and Sat. 10 p.m. 

1·800·321·5911 
includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. THE GATEKEEPER­
Adoption: Loving couple, doctor Please excuse my delay of SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER and teacher, longing to share our time/But in a rather flattered Photography for Formals-Halls­CHILDREN'S CAMPS­Ramada Inn of Elkhart, love with newborn. We'll give your state of surprise do I myself Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms baby a caring, warm, and happy find./ Adore I do the beautiful crimson Photography at 234-8539. WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO for home. Expenses paid. Call Carol roses/But many questions this SWIM. SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL Graduation weekend. Located at and Frank collect 212-874-3537. thoughtful gift poses./Your true POOL AND LAKES IN THE Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart identity, for one, remains NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, (12 miles from South Bend) concealed ,land I am only waiting for 
:;(,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~
Panama City Beach 
ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 PREGNANT? Loving, happily­it to be revealed.!Wha1 is a poor 
~ Jeff Burgfechtel's ~ 
this spring break

EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: deposit per room. Send letter with married professional couple mistress to do?/Perhaps you could 

~ 3rd Annual ~
CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, deposit to 3011 wishing to adopt. We promise your lend me a clue I 

only $199

MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, child lots of love, security, strong THE KEY MASTER 

~ Spring Break Party ~ ­
381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR IN 46514. religious affiliation, & a lifetime of Trans. and hotel inc. 



WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX happiness including international 
~Daytona Beach or South ~ 
1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 travel/educational/& living TOP 5 REASONS TO WISH JOE & 
CallND ~ 

(617) 934-6536. opportunities. We enjoy skiing, JON ROSS A HAPPY BELATED 
~Padre Island. For INFO and ~ 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD hiking, camping, and visits with BIRTHDAY: 
NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO family and friends. Medical, legal, 1) Their combined size is 13'7 450 
~LAST CHANCE ~~
~n~~ Ifr .,.\~, 

~s~n~p ~ 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR counseling, and living expenses lbs. 
239-7668 
. fl' 

2773097 possible. Call COLLECT 0-317-2) No one did yesterday. 
~Tues., Feb. 12 ~ 
or stop by 

GRAPHICS ARTS STUDENT 253-8838, Extension 567 and let 3) An opportunity to figure out who's 
~ Montegomery Theater ~ 
2nd floor

NEEDED FOR CATALOG LAYOUT. us help you. who. 
~LaFortune 7pm ~ 
PROJECT IS ON PC-BASED 4) They're WWF wrestlers in the off 
LaFortune 

~or Call Jenn 284-5087 ~ 
DESKTOP PUBLISHING SYSTEM. FREEDOM I Rent the best houses. SB<\SOn. 
WILL TRAIN. CALL DENNIS 293-Prime locations. 233-II HOWARD II 5) Fagan and Ganz are paying for 
~....................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,j
3568 (DAYS) 272-5031 (EVES) 9947. Kim and Cheryl 4 Sec.--this damn thing. 

Scoreboard

page 14 
,MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS . NFL DRAFT NHL STANDINGS 
ND 


RECRUITS 

Huntley Baldch, LB, &-3, 210, Dalla&, Texas Lee Beckton, RB, 5-11, 185, Vanoeboto, N.C. Travta Davis, DB. 6-0, 180. Wilmington, CalM. ( 
1. UNLV (18-0) did not play. Next: vs. Fresno  
State, Thursday.  Randy Baldwin, rb, Mississippi  WALES  CONFERENCE  
2. Ar1<ansas (22·1) did not play. Next: at Houston, Thursday.  Chris Blackmon, lb. S. Carolina St. Dannls Brown. K, Abilene Christian  Patrick  Division w  l  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  
3. Ohio State  (18-1)  did  not play.  Next: vs.  Richard Buchanan, WR, Northwestern  NY Rangers  28  t9  9  65  202  t74  15·8-5  13-lt-4  10-7-3  
Northwestern, Saturday.  Jesse Campbell, s, North Carolina State  Pittsburgh  29  23  3  61  235  203  18-tt-1  t1-12-2  14-10-0  
4. Indiana  (20-2)  did  not  play.  Next:  at  Rob Carpenter, wr, Syracuse  Philadelphia  27  24  6  60  t88  177  15-t1-4  t2-13-2  9-10-5  
Northwestern, Thursday.  Irvin Clark, DL. Florida A&M  New Jersey  23  22  tO  56  200  t84  tS-7-6  8-15-4  8-t1·5  
5. Arizona (18-3) did not play. Next: at Southern  Ben Coates, te, Livingstone  Washington  25  28  3  53  178  tBB  t3-ti-2  t2·t7-1  13-11-1  
Cal~ornia. Thursday.  David Daniels, WR, Penn St.  NY Islanders  t8  29  8  44  t57  195  tO-t 5-5  8-14-3  7-t2·4  
6. Duke (18·4) did not play. Next: vs. No.  11  Dexter Davis, db, Clemson  Adame  Divieion  
Virginia, Thursday.  Ryan Ouve, te, LHah St.  Boston  32  t7  8  72  2t0  t83  20·6·3  12-tt-5  13-7-3  
7. Syracuse (t9-3) did not play. Next: at Notre  Chris Gardocki, pk, Clemson  Montreal  30  21  6  66  194  t76  18-9-2  t2-12-4  11-7-3  
Dame,  Saturday.  Raghlb"Rocket"lamall,  wr-kr,  Hartford  24  25  6  54  159  181  t3-11·3  t1·t4·3  7-t0-3  
8. St. John's (16·4) Providence, Saturday.  did  not  play.  Next:  at  Notre Dame Reginald Jones, DB, Memphis S1.  Buffalo Quebec  21 1t  23 34  10 9  52 31  t89 155  t86 240  tt-t0-6 5-t6-6  t0-t3-4 6-t8-3  6-10-4 6-9-5  

Banning) Paul Failla, QB, 6-3, 185, Wexford, Pa. Reggle Fleurima. DL. ~. 200, Evanston. Ill 
(Townahip) Helbef1 GI:Mson. OL 6-6, 265, Olllroil (King) Jua1111 GOheen, LB, &-3, 223, Wexford, p._ (N. 
Alleghany) TrltCY Graham, DB, 5-10, 180, Chicago (St. AHa) Sedrid! Jermaine Holden, DE. 6-5, 240, 
Anderson, S.C. (Westside) Jim Kordaa, Ol, 6--6, 245. Chicago (St. RH8) Eric: Kuchenberg, LB. 6-2. 225, Hobart, Ind. Ryan Leahy, OL, 6--5, 265, Yakima, Wash, 
(Eiaen"-er) 

Mke Millar, WR, 5-7. 155, Sugarland, Tex111 laRon Moore, DB, 5-9, 180, indianapolis (Franklin Central) Jeremy Nau, LB, ~. 225, Chicago (Moullt Carma~ 
Jell Riney, OL, 6-5, 235, Sterling, IU. (Newman) Jeremy San'4)le, Fa, 6--1, 206. Downers GrOYe, 
ll Charles S1afford, DB. 6-1, 174, Elgin, II. Greg Stec, OL, 6,-3, 235. laGiange, Ill (lyons) JOhn Titlla!erro. TE. 6-4, 228. Hyatts\lille, Md. 
DeMatha) Shawn Wooden, DB, 6-0, 175, Willow Grove, Pa. (Abington) Mark Zataveskl, OT, 6--7, 280, Wynede. Pa. (McDevttt) Ray ZeUars, RB, 6-0, 212. Pitlsburgtl, (Oliver) 

NHL BOX SCORES 
AI Hartford, Conn. Edmonton t 0 0-t Hartford 1 0 4-5 

9. 
North Carolina ( 15-3) vs. North Carolina Stale. Next: vs. No. 11 Virginia, Saturday. 

10. 
Kentucky (17-4) did not play. Next: at Mississippi, Saturday. 

11. 
Virginia (17-4) did not play. Next: at No.6 Duke, Thursday. 

12. 
Southern Mississippi (15-2) did not play. Next: vs. Virginia Tech, Thursday. 

13. 
East Tennessee Stale (19-2) did not play. Next: at Citadel, Saturday. 

14. 
UCLA (16-5) did not play. Next: vs. Arizona Stale, Thursday. 

15. 
Nebraska (18-4) lost to No. 18 Kansas 85-77. Next: vs. Colorado, Saturday. 

16. 
New Mexico State (16-2) did not play. Next: at UC Irvine, Saturday. 

17. 
Utah (20-2) did not play. Next: vs. Hawaii, Thursday. 

18. 
Kansas (16·4) beat No. 15 Nebraska 85-77. Next: vs. No. 23 Oklahoma, Saturday. 

19. 
LSU (14-6) did not play. Next: vs. Georgia, Friday. 

20. 
Georgetown (14-6) beat Providence 79-65. Next: vs. Villanova, Saturday. 

21. 
New Orleans (19-3) at Ar1<ansas Slate. Next: vs. Louisiana Tech, Saturday. 

22. 
Oklahoma Stale (15-4) vs. Iowa State. Next: at No. 18 Kansas, Saturday. 

23. 
Oklahoma (15-7) did not play. Next: vs. Seton Hall, Saturday. 

24. 
Pittsburgh (16-7) did not play. Next: vs. Boston College, Saturday. 

25. 
Michigan Slate (13·6) did not play. Next: vs. iowa, Thursday. 


First Perlod-1. Hartford, Verbeek 28 (R.Brown, Francis), 4:27 (pp). 2. Edmonton, Lowe 2 (Linseman, Klima), tO:tO. Second Period-None. Third Perlod-3, Hartford, Francis t8 (Babych, Crossman), 6:53 (pp). 4, Hartford, Tomak 5 (Cyr, 
Dineen). 8:13. 5, Hartford, Crossman 5 (Verbeek, Francis), t2:49.(pp). 6, Hartford, Holik t6 (Burt), 17:43. Shots on goal-Edmonton tt-2-3-t6. Hartford 11-10-tt-32. Goaii-Edmonton, Reddick. Hartford, Sidor1<iewicz. A-11,364. 
AtNewYor1< N.Y. Islanders t 0 t-2 N.Y. Rangers 3 2 0-5 

First Period-1, N.Y.Islanders, Volek t8 (Tucker, McBean), 3:25.2, N.Y. Rangers, Gartner 29 (Leetch, Patrick), 16:13 (pp). 3, N.Y. Rangers, Ogrodnlck 22 (Kislo. Mullen). 18:t9 (pp). 4, N.Y. Rangers, Sheppard 20 (Turcotte, Patrick), 18:51 (pp). 
Second Period-S, N.Y. Rangers, Erixon 5 (Gartner), 2:19. 6, N.Y. Rangers, Shaw 2, 10:58. Third Period-7, N.Y. Islanders, Flatley t6 (D. King, LaFontaine), 12:35 (pp). Shots on goai-N.Y. Islanders t0-9-t2-31. N.Y. Rangers t3-4-2-19. Goalles-N.Y. islanders, Healy, Hackett. N.Y. Rangers, Richter. A-15,588. 
AI Buffalo, N.Y. St. Louis 2 t-5 Buffalo 2 2 0 a-

First Period-I, Buffalo, Hogue t2 (Turgeon), t:SO. 2. Buffalo, Andreychuk 19 (Turgeon, Ledyard), 
8:07. 3, S1. Louis, Ronning 12 (Brind'Amour. Marois), 8:19. 4, St. Louis, Hull 56 (Oates, Brind'Amour). 
12:26. _. Second Period-5, Buffalo, Turgeon 25 (Hogue, Mogilny), 2:40. 6, St. Louis, Courtnall 19 (Oates, Brown), 4:t 5. 7, Buffalo. Hawerchuk 20 (Mogilny, Andreychuk), 15:09. Third Period-8, St. Louis. Brown tO (Mornesso, Stevens), 8:04. Overtime--9, St. LouiS, Hull 57 (Oates). 4:15. 
Shots on goal-St. Louis 9·12-tS-2-39. Bullalo 10-9·9·3-31. Goalies-St. Louis, Riendeau. Buffalo, Puppa. A-t5,354. 
AI Montreal Chicago 3 3 2-8 Montreal t 2 0-3 

First Perlod-1, Chicago, Thomas 10 (McGill), 3:06.2, Montreal. Daigneauli 2 (Corson), 6:24 (pp). 3, Chicago, Goulet 18 (Larmer, Roenick), 8:22. 4, Chicago, Larmer 32 (Gilbert, Roenick), 19:55 (pp). 
Second Period-5, Chicago, Roenick 28 (Manson). 2:38 (sh). 6, Chicago, Creighton 16 (Thomas, Kucera), 6:31.7, Montreal, Lebeau 19 (Corson), 9:40.8, Chicago, Thomas 1t, 10:30.9, Montreal, McPhee t4 (Daigneault), 19:25 (pp). 
Third Period-10. Chicago, Goulatt9 (Roe!1ick, Larmer), 3:28. It, Chicago, Presley 9 (Creighton, 
Wilson). 6:59. Shots on goal-Chicago 9-6-4-19. Montreal13-t3-8-34. Goalies-Chicago, Balfour. Montreal, Racicot, Chabot. A-16,726. 
At Winnipeg, Manijoba Toronto 3 1 0-5 Winnipeg 3 t 1 0-5 

First Perlod-1, Toronto, Marois 15 (Rouse, Clar1<),.1:48. 2. Winnipeg, Evans 6 (Marchment, Steen), 
5:45. 3, Winnipeg, S1een 11 (Eiynuik, Evans), 6:09. 4, Toronto, Clark t5 (Bradley), 11:49. 5, Winnipeg, 
Olczyk t9 (Osborne), 12:t7. 6, Toronto, Clar1< 16 (Bradley), 14:35. Second Period-7, Toronto, Foligno 8 (KrushelnyskQ, 3:t6. 8, Winnipeg, Elynuik 23 (Ashton, Steen). 
8:f1. 

Third Perlod-9, Toronto, Reid 13 (Hannan). 8:32 (sh). tO, Winnipeg, Arniei 5 (Evans, Housley), 16:08. Overtime-None. Shots on goal-Toronto t4-9-t2-3-38. Winnipeg 14-15-7-2-38. Goali-Toronto, Besler, lng. Winnipeg, Essensa. A-12,157. 
Work up lo 6 months rn B"tarn Ireland France. Germany. Jamaoca. Nev,.-Zealand. and Costa Roca Counc>l's Work Abroad Pro: gram. Ihe only one oi rls kond rn !he lJ S cuts through aliihe red lapel 
Call lor FREE brochures on work programs, drscounl au lares, language courses. and more. 
Council on tnt'/ Educatrona/ Exchange (US Sponsor of the lnt't Student t.D. Card) 





nciiTravel 
Chicago, IL 312·951-0585 Evanston. IL 708-475-5070 



Ed King, g, Auburn Sean Love, G, Penn St. Pete Lucas, T. Stevens Pt. Todd Marinovlch, qb, Southern Cal Herman Moore, wr, Virginia Jerry Renners, TE, Butler Curvin Richards, RB, Pittsburgh Leonard Russell, RB, Arizona St. Eric Swann, DL, no college Ernie Thorrpson, RB, Indiana Rob Turner, WR, Indiana Jon Vaughn, rb, Michigan Sarrmy Walker, cb, Texas Tech Robert Wilson, rb, Texas A&M 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms with Felix Fermin, infielder. on a one-year contract. 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms with Greg Cadaret. pitcher, on a one-year contract. Announced the resignation of George Bradley, vice president of baseball operations. 
SEATILE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Dave Valle, catcher. on a three-year contract. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Brian Bohanon and Roger Pavlik, pitchers, and Kevin Reimer, outfielder, on one-year contract. National League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Jeff Treadway, second baseman, on a one-year contract. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with Billy Hatcher, outfielder, on a two-year contract, and Chris Saba, third baseman, on a one-year contract. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms with Mickey Harcher, first baseman, on a one-year contract. 
PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to terms with Mike LaValliere. catcher, on a one-year contract. Named Douglas Bureman senior vice president for business operations. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Activated Tom Garrick, guard, from the inj_ured list. 
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Placed Haywoode Wor1<man, guard, on the Injured list. Signed Clinton Smhh, guard, to a 10-day contract. United Slates Basketball League USB l-Awarded a franchise to Atlanta Professional Sports, Inc., lbr the 1991 season. Liberty Basketball Association LBA ALL-STARS-Signed Renee Kelly, forward, and Vicki Link, center. FOOTBALL National Football League 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Announced that Joe Pascale, defensive coordinator. will be reassigned. Named Fritz Shurrrur defensive coordinator. Canadian Football League 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Giuilo Caravella, quarterback-kicker, and Richard Khchener, offensive lineman. World League of American Football 
NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Named Mouse Davis coach. 
SACRAMENTO SURGE-Named Doug Cosbie communhy relations director. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-Assigned Jell Parker, center, and Gord Dineen, delenseman, to Muskegon of the International Hockey League. HORSE RACING 
DEBARTOLO RACING-Named Corey Johnsen director of marketing. SOCCER American Professional Soccer League 
TAMPA BAY ROWDIES-Signed Peter Vermes. forward. COLLEGE 
NORTHEASTERN-Named Theo Lemon defensive coordinator. 
ROBERT MORRIS-Announced the contract of women's basketball coach Dan Swalga would not be renewed. 
SETON HALL-Names Scott Wlodychak men's tennis coach and Kevin McGlynn women's tennis coach. 
STEVENS TECH-Named Dean Winy lacrosse coach. 

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie. Division 
w  l  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  
Chicago  35  17  4  74  189  144  18-7-2  17-10-2  14-6-t  
St. Louis  32  16  7  7t  2t6  t74  t6-6-5  t6·t0-2  t3-7-2  
Detroit  24  27  5  53  189  206  19-10-0  5-t7-5  11-10·2  
Minnesota  17  31  9  43  172 t97  t0-t4-4  7-t7-5  4-t3-3  
Toronto  14  35  5  33  156  226  9-19-2  5-t6-3  7-t3-2  
Smythe  Division  
Los Angeles  31  18  5  67  224 t72  17-7-3  t4·1t-2  10-7-3  
Calgary  28  21  5  61  217 t73  15-7-1  13·14·4  tt-6-2  
Edmonton  27  24  3  57  187  177  16·9·1  11·15·2  10-10-2  
Winnipeg  20  29  8  48  t87  200  t2-t2-3  8-t7-5  8-6-5  
Vancouver  t9  32  5  43  172  22t  tt-t3·3  8-t9-2  7-17-0  
Wednesday's Games Late Game Not Included St. louis 5, Buffalo 4, OT  Thursday's Games Calgary at Boston, 7:35p.m.  

Vancouver at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m.
Hartford 5, Edmonton 1 Montreal at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. 
Chicago 8, Montreal 3 Toronto at Minnesota, 8:35p.m

N.Y. Rangers 5, N.Y. Islanders 2 Toronto a! Winnipeg. (n) 

NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 

w l Pet GB ltO Streak Home Away Coni Boston 34 t2 .739 5-5 Won2 23-4 tt-8 22-9 Philadelphia 25 2t .543 9 3-7 Wont 17-7 8-t4 19-12 NewYor1< 20 26 .435 t4 5-5 Lost 1 t0-t3 t0-t3 1t-15 Washington 20 27 .426 t4 112 4-6 Lost 3 t3-8 7-19 12-17 New Jersey 14 33 .298 20 112 3-7 Lost 6 9-t4 5-t9 9-tB Miami t3 34 .277 21 1/2 3-7 Wont 9-14 4·20 7-22 Central Diviaion Detroit 34 t4 .708 7-3 Wont 2t·2 t3-t2 23-6 Chicago 31 t4 .689 t 112 6-4 Wont t8·3 t3-tt tB-7 Milwaukee 30 19 .612 4 1/2 3-7 Lost t 22·3 8·16 19-1 t Atlanta 25 21 .543 8 4·6 Wont t7-6. 8-15 15-t5 indiana 19 26 .422 t3 1/2 5-5 Lost t 15-7 4-t9 t2-t6 Cleveland t5 31 .326 t8 4-6 Lost 2 t0-13 5-ta t0-18 Charlotte t4 32 .304 19 2·8 Lost 3 10-t4 4-18 9-20 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Divialon 

w L Pet GB LID Streak Home Away Coni San Antonio 3t t3 .705 6-4 Lost 2 tB-5 13-8 22-8 Utah 31 t6 .660 1 t/2 6-4 Won 1 21-4 t0-12 2t-8 Houston 26 21 .553 6 t/2 7-3 Won3 t7·7 9-14 16-14 Dallas 16 27 .372 t4 t/2 4-6 Won 1 10-12 6-t5 9-t9 Minnesota 16 28 .384 15 5-5 Won2 tt-11 5-t7 tt-19 Denver t4 3t .311 t7t/2 7-3 Lost1 11-12 3-t9 6-~2 Orlando 13 33 .283 t9 3-7 Won2 t1·12 2-2t 9-21 Pacific Diviaion Portland 39 8 .830 9-t Won2 24-2 15-6 23-6 LA Lakers 35 1t .76t 3 112 tO-O Won t6 20-4 15-7 21-8 Phoenix 30 t6 .652 8112 5-5 Lost 1 tB-4 t2-12 19-10 Golden Stale 26 19 .578 t2 7-3 Wont t6-4 10-tS t6-13 Seattle 22 23 .489 16 6-4 Won2 t5-6 7-t7 t0-t6 LA Clippers t5 32 .319 24 2·8 Lost 5 t1-t0 4-22 tt-17 Sacramento 12 32 .273 25 t/2 4-6 Lost4 t1-t1 1-2t 8-2t 
Wednesday'• Games 

Thuraday'a Games Late Game Not Included 
Charlotte at Atlanta, 7:30p.m.Boston t33, Charlotte tt7 
Houston at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Miami 134, New Jersey t19 
Boston at New York, 7:30p.m. Philadelphia 108, Washington t 00 
Minnesota at Orlando, 7:30p.m.Houston ttt, Milwaukee 109 
New Jersey at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Utah I 03, Phoenix 99 
Chicago at Detroij, 8 p.mSeattle 107, LA Clippers t04 
Golden Stale at Dallas. 8:30p.m.
Portland at Sacramento, (n) 

Indiana at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Sunday's Game All-Star Game at Charlotte, 1:30 p.m. 
INDIANA TOP 20 
1. 
Martinsville (17-0) at Center Grove Fri; at No.5 Bedford Sat. tt. Muncie South (1!>-1) at Carmel Wed; vs No.8 

2. 
Gary Rooseveh (t!l-1) beat Crown Point t02· Anderson Highland Fri. 57; vs Merrillville Sat. 12. Jeffersonville (14-2) vs Jennings Co. Fri; vs 

3. 
lndpls Brebeuf (16-t) atlndpls Riner Fri. Gary Mann Sat. 

4. 
Concord (13-t) vs No.19 SB Riley Thurs; vs 13. E.Chicago Central (12-4) vs Gary Wallace Northridge Fri. Frl 

5. 
Bedford N. Lawrence (t5-1) vs New Abany 14. Warsaw (14-t) a1 Kokomo Fri. Fri; vs No.I Martinsville Sat. t5. Andrean (12-3) at Chesterton Fri. 

6. 
Washington Catholic (16-0) vs Wood 16. MI. Vernon (Hancock) (t4-3) vs Noblesville Memorial Fri; a! Tecumseh Sat., ppd to Feb. 12. Fri; at Wes-Dal Sat. 

7. 
Muncie Central (14-2) beat Lebanon 8t-74; at t7. Manchester (t7-0) a1 Ft. Wayne Elmhurst Fri. Anderson Madison Hts. Fri. 18. Vincennes (14-3) vs Evansville North Fri. 

8. 
Anderson Highland (t3-2) at No.1! Muncie 19. S.Bend Riley (15-2) vs No.4 Concord Thurs; South Fri; atlndpis Pke Sat. vs Mishawaka Fri. 

9. 
TH South (t3-2) vs lndpis Washington Wed; at 20. lndpls Ben Davis (13-5) at Plainfield Fri; vs Ev.Re~z Sat. Southport Sat. 

10. 
Mlcii.Ctty Elston (14·2) vs Elk.Memorial Frl; vs SB St.Joseph's Sat. 


The Catholic Faith Series 
The Ignatian Way of Holiness Finding God in all things is at the heart of the Ignatian Way of holiness -a path which inz>ites women and men to be attentive to tilt> movement of God's grace within themselves and in the world around them. 
Keith F. Pecklers. S.I. is currently pursuing a Masters in Liturgical Studies at Notre Dame, while also serving as deacon at Sacred Heart Parish. He has received a Master of Divinity from the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkley. He has taugh in New York City, in the Caroline Islands of Micronesia and in Lagos, Nigeria. He is preparing for ordination in June. 
Sunday, February lOth, 7:00-8:30p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry For further information call Sister Mary Curran, esc 239-5242 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION 1991 ·coURSE LIST 
Unless other dates are noted in the 1991 summer session Bulletin, courses in the 1991 summer session will run from Monday, June 17 (enrollment) to Wednesday, July 31 (final exams). Classes begin on Tuesday, June 18. The 1991 summer session Bulletin containing course descriptions and call numbers will be available in the Summer Session Office (312 Main Bldg.) beginning on Friday, February 15. 
Notre Dame continuing students--undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1991 who expect to return in the fall--must use DART to register for summer courses until May 31. DART will be available for summer registration from March 1 to April 5 and from May 1 to May 31. Students may register whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. Instructions on the use of DART for the summer and a PIN (personal identification number) will be sent to all continuing students in mid-February. The 1991 summer session Bulletin containing course descriptions and call numbers will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Bldg.) beginning on Friday, February 15. 
Students who decide to attend the summer session after May 31 may register at any time up to the first day of classes (June 18). To do so, they must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Application forms may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. Tuition for the summer session of 1991 will be $112 per credit hour plus a $25 general fee. 
AEROSPACE  ANQ  MECHANICAL  ENGINEERING  COMPUTER  APPLICATIONS  PHILOSOPHY  
AERO 499 AERO 598  Undergraduate Research Advanced S!Ud19S  0037 0038  CAPP 243 CAPP 497  Introduction to Computers Special Projects  0489 0490  PHIL 201 PHIL 227  Introduction to Philosophy Ways a! Knowing  0217 0218  
AERO 599  TheSIS D~reclion  0039  CAPP 498  Departmental Tutorial  0491  PHIL 234  The Art ol Peacemakmg: Ghand1, Bubar,  0219  
AERO 699  Research and D1ssertat10n  0040  CAPP 499  Special Topics  0492  and Fretre  
PHIL 246  Ethics and Business  0220  
Mecnantcal Engtoeenog ME 226 Mechanics II  0041  COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING CSE 241 Logic Design and Sequential Circiuts  0162  PHIL 261 PHIL 312  Philosophy ol Religion Nietzsche's Trilogy  0221 0222  
ME 32t ME 327 ME 334  Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics ThermodynamiCS FlUid MechanicS  0042 0043 0044  CSE 251 CSE 361  Structured Programming Microcomputers  0163 0164  PHIL 468/568 The Social and Political Though! of Jacques Maritain PHIL 498 Directed Readings  0533  0534 0223  
ME 342 ME 468  Engmeenng Economy Eng1neenng Aspects ol Product Liability  0045 0046  EARTH SCIENCES EASC , o9 Undergraduate Reseiuch  0135  PHIL 699  Research and Dissertation  0224  
ME 499 Undergraduate Research ME 598 Advanced StUdieS ME 599 Thes1s D~rection ME 699 Research and Dissertation AMfBICAN STUDIES AMST 48 t The Arts ol Amenca Painting and Architecture AMST 483 The Outstder tn Amencan Culture AMST 498/598 Spec1al Stud1es 0053 AMST 599 TheSIS D"ection  0047 0048 0049 0050 0051 0052 0054 0055  ECONOMICS ECON 224 Principles of Economicsll ECON 350 Economics ol Labor Institutions ECON 421 Money, Credit and Banking ECON 498 Special Studies ECON 697 Special Topics ECON 698 D.rected Readings ECON 699 Research and D•sserta11an  0136 0137 0138 0319 0141 0141 0142  ~ PHYS 221 PHYS 222 PHYS 499 PH'IS 699 PROGRAM PLS 281 PLS 302 PLS 477  Physics I Physics II Undergraduate Research Research and Dissertation Of LIBERAL STUDIES Great Books Seminar 1: The Greek Tradition The Idea of Education Directed Readings  0225 0226 0227 0228 thru 0258 0259 0260 0261  
Millift_Qf>_~ ANTH 328 IntroductiOn to Cultural and Soc1al Anthropology ANTH 490 Archaeolog1ca1 F1eld School AACHITECTUAE ARCH t 00 Career D1scovery 1n Architecture at Notre Dame ARCH 144 Des1gn Theory ARCH 593 Advanced StudiOS A.B.L_.A.BJ HISTORY and DESIGN ARHI 4611561 Posl-impress•an•sm through Surrealism 0059 ARHI 4751575 D.rected Read1ngs 1n M H•story 0061  0468 0469 0056 0057 0058 0060 0062  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING EE 222 Introduction Ia Electrical Science EE 224 Introduction Ia ElectncaiNetworks EE 241 Logic Design and Sequential Circuits EE 251 Structured Programm1ng EE 361 Microcomputers EE 499 Undergraduate Research EE 598R Advanced Studies EE 599 TheSIS Direction EE 698 Advanced Topics EE 699 Research and Dissertation EE 700 Nonresident Dissaratalion Research  0165 0166 0167 0168 0169 0170 0171 0172 0173 0174 0175  PSYCHOLOGY PSY 211 Introduction Psychology PSY 351 Child Development PSY 354 Abnormal Psychology PSY 397 Special Studies PSY 497 Special S!ud1es PSY 560 Research Methodology PSY 561 Foundations of Counseling PSY 562 Group Dynam1cs PSY 599 Thesis Direction PSY 663 Psychopathology PSY 678 Seminar in Family Therapy  0262 0263 0264 0272 !hru 0292 0293 thru 0313 0265 0266 0267 0314 lhru 0334 0268 0269  
ARHI600 Nonres1dBnt Thes1s Research ARST 209,210 Bas1c Ceram1cs ARST 244·444 Wood Sculpture ARST 245 Metal Sculpture I  0064 0066  0063 0065 0067 0068  ENGINEERING NONDEPARTMENTAL EG I OOA Introduction to Engineering EG IOOB Introduction to Engineering  0143 0144  PSY 691A PSY 691 B PSY 693  Advanced Special Issues in Counseling Advanced Issues 1n Statistical and Research Des1gn Read•ng ProJects: Special Top•cs  0270 0271 0335 thru 0355  
ARST 4091509  Ceram1cs Studio  0069  0070  f.lliiiJ.Sjj  PSY 695  Research Projects:  Special Topics  0356 !hnu 0376  
ARST 433,533 Pa1nt10g StudiO ARST 435WI535W Pa1ntmg Workshop  0071 0073  0072 0074  ENGL 389 ENGL 419A  The Religtous lmagmation 1n American Literature Afncan-American Novels ol Social Protest  0145 0146  PSY 699 PSY 700  Research and Dissertation Nonresident Dissertation Research  0377 thru 0397 0398 thru 0418  
ARST 585 Photography Stud10 ARST 676 Directed Read1ngs ARST 696 Thes•s PraJBCI BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES BIOS 494 D"ec!ed Read~ngs BIOS 499 Undergraduate Research BIOS 569 Pract1cal AquatiC Biology BIOS 599 Thests D~rectton BIOS 600 Nonrestdent Thests Research  0075 0076 0077 0078 0079 0080 0081 0082  ENGL 423A ENGL 424 ENGL 498 ENGL 500 ENGL 538 ENGL 5858 ENGL 598 ENGL 599 ENGL 685S ENGL 699  Major British Novels Heroism in Euro-Amencan Literature Otrected Readtngs English lor Non-Native Teachers Chaucer Mark Twatn and the American Imagination Spec1al Studies Thests Direction Seminar for Teachers: Twatn and American Imagination Research and Dissertation  0147 0530 0148 0149 0150 0151 0152 0153 0154 0155  ROMANCE ROFR 101 ROFR 102 ROFR 103 ROFR 104 ROFR 399 ROfT101 ROIT 102 ROIT 103 ROIT 104  LANGUAGES ANQ LITERAtURES Beginning French I Beginning French II Intermediate French Conversational French Special Studies Beg1nn1ng Italian I Beginning Italian II Intermediate Italian Conversational Italian  0419 0420 0421 0527 0422 0423 0424 0425 0528  
BIOS 672 Spec101 Problems BIOS 699 Research and Otssertatton BIOS 700 Nonrestdent Dtssertallon Research BUSINESS AQMINISTRATION BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION; NONDEPARTMENTAL ACCT 23t Pnnc1ples ol Accounting I ACCT 232 PrinCiples of Accounting II  0083 0084 0085 0470 0471  GERMAN GE 101 GE 102 GE 103 GE 125 GE 126 GE 500  & RUSSIAN LANGUAGES Begmning Garman I Beginning German II Beginning German Ill Intermediate German I Intermediate German II German Gradule Read1ng  &  LITERATURE  0156 0157 0158 0159 0.160 0161  ROSP 101 ROSP 102 ROSP 103 ROSP 104 ROSP 399 ROSP 494 ROFR 500 ROIT 500  Begmning Span•sh Beginning Spanish II Intermediate Span1sh Conversational Spanish Special Studies The Novel of Human R1ghts in Latin Amenca French Graduate Reading Span1sh Graduate Reading  0426 0427 0428 0527 0429 0430 0431 0433  
ACCT 334 ACCT 371 ACCT 475 ACCT 476 BA 230 BA 362 FIN 23t FIN 360 FIN 361  Cos! Analys•s and Control F1nanc1al Accounting Theory and Practice I Auditing Theory and Practice Introduction to Federal Taxation Stal•st•cs 1n Busmess Legal Env~ronmenl of Busmess Bus1ness Fmance Manager101 Econom1cs Bustness Condtltons Analysts  0472 0473 0474 0475 0476 0477 0478 0479 0480  GOYERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES GOVT 411 Urban Poli!ICS GOVT 489/589 Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599 TheSIS D"eCtiOn GOVT 692 Directed Readings ·Government GOVT 696 Examination Preparation GOVT 699 Research and D1sseration  0177  0176 0178 0179 0180 0181 0182  ROSP 597 Directed Readmgs ROFR 597 Directed Readings SOCIOLOGY SOC 102 Introduction to Sociology SOC 220 Social Psychology SOC 232 Social Problems SOC 234 Criminal Justice SOC 319 Soc•ology of Sport  0434 0435 0516 0517 0518 0519 0520  
FIN 370 Investment Theory MGT 231 Principles ol Management MGT 240 Computers 10 Bus1ness MGT 38t Women in Business MGT 382 Career Management MGT 475 Human Resource Management MGT 483 Entrepeneurship and Small Business Management MARK 231 PrinCiples of Marketing CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CHEG 499 Undergraduate Research 1CHEG 599 Thes1s D"ect1on CHEG 699 Researcr1 and DISSertation CHEMISTRY ANQ BIOCHEMISTRY CHEM 118 Ganeral Chem•stry CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry I CHEM 223L Elementary Organ•c Chem1stry Laboratory I CHEM 224 Elementary Orgamc Chem1stry II CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chem1s!ry Laboratory II CHEM 499 Undergraduate Research CHEM 599 Thesis D"ect1on CHEM 699 Research and Dissertation  0481 0482 0483 0484 0485 0486 0487 0488 0088 0089 0090 0091 0092 0093 0094 0095 0096 0097 0098  !::!J.llQll.Y HIST 320 Cnme and Society in Western Europe HIST 35~ Amenca 1n Vietman, 1945-1975 HIST 365 Ireland and lrish·America Since 1776 HIST 490 D~rected Readings HIST 590 Directed Readings HIST 599 Thesis Direction HIST 697 Directed Readings HIST 699 Research and Dissertation INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES liPS 396/496 Directed Readings liPS 427/527 Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice liPS 4341534 The Art of Peacemaking: Ghandi, Bubar, and Fre1re liPS 488N588A Contemporary Issues 1n International Conflict and Cooperation liPS 530 Peace Studies Laboratory liPS 551 Soc1al E!h1cs liPS 552 Issues in Social Ethics liPS 599 Thesis Direction liPS 692 D1rected Readings liPS 695 Field Experiences  0493 0495 0497 0499  0183 0184 0185 0186 0187 0188 0189 0190 0494 0496 0498 0500 0501 0502 0503 0504 0505 0506  SOC 498 Directed Readings SOC 599 Thesis Direction SOC 600 Nonresident Thesis Research SOC 655 Directed Readings SOC 699 Research and Dissertation SOC 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEOLOGY THEO 200 Foundations ol Theology: Biblicai/Histoncal THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical THEO 227 Prayer: Living in Dialogue with God THEO 260 Christ10n Ethics THEO 500 Introduction to Graduate Studies THEO 514 Prophecy: Isaiah THEO 521 Patristic Theology THEO 530 Fundamentals of Systematic Theology THEO 532 Christology THEO 533 Eccles•ology THEO 534 Doctnne ol God THEO 536 Theology of Grace THEO 539 Western Spirituality THEO 545 Women and Myths of Religion 1n India THEO 551 Social Ethics  0521 0522 0523 0524 0525 0526 0001 0002 0036 0003 0004 0005 0006 0007 0008 0009 0010 0011 0012 0013 0014  
CIYIL ENGINEERING CE 1OOA C1v1l Eng1neenng Concepts CE tOOB Civil Engineenng Concepts CE 498 Directed Stud1es CE 598A Advanced StUdiOS CE 599R Thes1s Direction CE 600R Nonresident Thes1s Research CE 698R Advanced TopiCS CE 699R Research and Dissertation CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research CLASSICAL & ORIENTAL LANGUAGES & CLGR 101 Beginning Greek I CLGR I 02 Beg10ning Greek II CLGR I 03 Beg•nn1ng Greek Ill CLLA I 01 Beg1nmng La !in I CLLA 102 Beginning Latin II CLLA 103 Beginmng Latin Ill MLAR I 01 Beginmng Arabic I MLAR I 02 Beginning Arabic II MLAR I 03 Begmmng ArabiC Ill MLAR 500 Readmgs 1n Syriac Literature  0099 0100 0101 0102 0103 0104 0105 0106 0107 LITERATURES 0108 0109 0110 0111 0112 0113 0114 0115 0116 0117  MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MSE 499 Undergraduate Research MSE 598 Advanced Studies MSE 599 Thesis Direction MSE 698 Advanced Topics MSE 699 Research and Dissertation MSE 700 Nonrestdent Dissertation Research MATHEMATICS MATH I 04 Finite Mathematics MATH I OS Elements of Calculus 1 MATH 106 Elements of Calculus II MATH 126 Calculus II MATH 211 Computer Programmmg and Problem Solving MATH 499 Undergraduate Reading MATH 511 Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 551 Mathematical Models MATH 579 Introduction Ia Pascal MATH 580 Advanced Programming MATH 698 Advanced Graduate Reading MATH 699 Research and Dissertation MATH 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research  0191 0192 0193 0194 0195 0196 0197 0198 0199 0200 0201 0202 0203 0204 0205 0206 0207 0208 0209  THEO 552 Issues in Social EthiCS THEO 560 Liturgical History THEO 561 Christian Initiation THEO 562 Eucharist THEO 563 Liturgical Prayer THEO 564 Liturgical Thealogy THEO 566A Marriage THEO 568 Liturgy ol the Word THEO 569A Liturgy, Art, and Cu~ure THEO 570 Eastern Worship THEO 573L Camps Review-Liturgical Studies THEO 573T Camps Review-Theolog•cal Studies THEO 574D Liturgical lnculturatlon THEO 598 Directed Readings THEO 599 Thesis Direction THEO 600 Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research CENTER FOR EQUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY UB 104 Finite Mathematics UB 109 Composition and Literature  0015 0016 0017 0018 0019 0021 0022 0023 0024 0025 0026 0027 0028 0029 0030 0031 0032 0033 0086 0087  
MLJA 101 MLJA 102 MLJA 103  Beg1nning Japanese I Beg~nmng Japanese II Beg1nmng Japanese Ill  0118 0119 0120  MEDIEVAL Ml 305 Ml 497  INSTITUTE Christians and Philosophy, August10e to Aquinans Directed Readings  0210 0211  
COMMUNICATION  ANQ  THEATRE  Ml 597  Directed Readings  0212  
COTH 20 I  Bas1cs ol Media Studies  0121  Ml 599  Thesis Direction  0213  
GOTH 204  Bas1cs ol Film  0122  Ml 600  Nonresident Thesis Research  0214  
GOTH 205  Introduction Ia Theatre  0123  Ml 699  Research and Dissertation  0215  
COTH 227  Oral Interpretation  0124  Ml 700  Nonresident Dissertation Research  0216  
COTH 420 GOTH 501  Act1ng Workshop Comparative Approaches 10 the Media  0125 0126  M..lLSl.C  
GOTH 505A The Med1a and the Public Mind  0127  MUS 222  Introduction to Symphomc MUSIC  0507  
GOTH 505B Med•a and Authorship  0128  MUS 3101510  Piano  0508  0509  
GOTH 505C Med1a, Race, and Gender  0129  
GOTH 551  Writers' Workshop  0130  MUS 311/511  Organ  0510  0511  
GOTH 560  TeleviSIOn Production  0131  MUS 314/514  Voice  0512  0513  
COTH 572  Advert1s1ng  0132  MUS 598  Special Studies  0514  
COTH 573  Public Ralal•ons  0133  MUS 599  TheSIS Direction  0515  
GOTH 598  Spec1al Stud1es  0134  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

page 16 
Saint Mary's avenges earlier loss 
Belles go to overtime to defeat U. of Chicago 86-79 
By CHRIS BACON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's basketball team rebounded from last Saturday's loss to Olivet by escaping the University of Chicago (12-8) in overtime, 86­79 Tuesday night. 
Earlier this season at Saint Mary's Roundball Classic, Chicago defeated the Belles 85­7 3 in the finals. 
Senior guard Mea Tettonborn 

\ed all scorers with 19 points, 10 rebounds and nine steals. Guard Claire Brouter and cen­ter Tina Klawinski led Chicago with 13 points each. 
"I've been waiting for a game like this," Tettonborn ex­plained. "It made it easier for me to play my game knowing everyone was doing their part." 
"This game was tight from beginning to end. The largest margin of the evening was the final score," added Belles coach MarvWood. 
The Belles (9-6) opened the game on a shot by sophomore center Kim Holmes. The team increased their lead to four points, 8-4, with 16:24 on the clock, but Chicago quickly tied the score. Both teams ex­changed buckets and the lead several times before Chicago took a 36-35 halftime lead. 
"It was just nip and tuck," Wood said. "The score was ei­

! 



~ NBA 
I continued from page 20 
~ 
~ injuries lately, but the presence 
I of the Admiral, David Robinson, 
I 
gives the Spurs the edge for the 
I 
division title. 
I 
The loss of Isiah Thomas for the season with a wrist injury
' I 
I seriously dampens Detroit's I (34-14) chances for a "three­
I 
peat." Thomas sparked the
I 
Pistons' attack and, while

I 
rookie Lance Blanks has great
I 
I potential, he will have difficulty I replacing a perennial All-Star. I Chicago (31-14) should be the 
I 
primary beneficiary of Detroit's 
l 
troubles. For the Bulls to merit 
I I 
serious consideration for the NBA title, Scottie Pippen and Horace Grant must continue to 
l 
provide 15-18 points apiece to 

I I 
make sure Michael Jordan is not worn out by playoff time. 

Boston (33-12) and Milwaukee (30-18) are two of the biggest surprises of the season. The Celtics' elder statesmen (Bird, McHale, and Parish) have found their second wind and combined with Reggie Lewis, Brian Shaw and Kevin ther tied or see-sawed by only one or two points." 
dticago jumped ahead in the second half, grabbing a 41-37 lead, but the Belles rallied and took a 49-46 lead. 
Saint Mary's used a harassing full-court man-to-man and 2-3 zone to keep the lead until the very end of the game. 
"This time we used a harass­ing full court man-to-man which dropped back to a funny 2-3 zone," Wood said. " I call it funny because we matched our guards against their (Chicago's) good shooters. It's the first time we've done and it worked better than we expected." 
The defense also shut down Chicago's Ebony Howard, hold­ing her to just seven points. Howard led her team with 22 points in Chicago's victory ear­lier this season. 
The Belles reached their largest lead with 2:00 left in the game at five points, 58-53. 
However, Chicago held on. With just two seconds remain­ing, Howard's lay-up tied the score at 71, forcing overtime. 
The Belles dominated the ex­tnt period, outscoring Chicago 15-8. Teresa Clemens came off the bench and led the Belles with six points, sinking the last free throws to seal the victory. 
The Saint Mary's team re­mains plagued by illness and 
Gamble, often run their opponents into the ground. 
Meanwhile, the Bucks, led by another super three-guard rotation in Alvin Robertson, Ricky Pierce, and Jay Humphries, started the season 19-0 at home, but a recent West Coast swing brought them down to earth. Boston may encounter the same fate, having to make the same trip next month. 
And don't forget about either Atlanta (25-21) or Philadelphia (2 4-21). Both Dominique Wilkins and Charles Barkley are as good as they claim to be and could carry their teams to an upset or two in the playoffs. 
As for the four expansion franchises, only Minnesota (16­
28) has any chance at a playoff spot. The Timberwolves temporarily have abandoned their slowdown tactics, and they have responded by playing .500 ball the past few weeks. 
Could the Wolves actually make the playoffs this year? Doubtful, but this has been a season of surprises in the NBA, and this would be the biggest of all. 
FLASHAMANIA 
RUNNING WILD IN UTAH ANDATND! 

InJury. Starting forward Catherine Restovich did not play, while junior center Linda Garret, also ill, could only play half the game. Junior guard Janet Libbing continued to play on a bad ankle. 
"It's probably the best overall performance all year," Wood said, "and we had a patched-up team on the floor." 
Led by Tettonborn, the Belles had four players in double fig­ures. Libbing tallied 18 points, 10 rebounds, Clemens racked up 15 points and Anne Hartzel also came off the bench for 12 points and four rebounds. 
"It was a real team effort," Libbing said. "We knew at the beginning of overtime that it was ours. There was no way we'd let go of something we worked so hard for." 
Thurday, February 7, 1991 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
ATTENTION CREW MEMBERS: meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. $40 dues must be in. The erg race will be discussed and issue sweats will be distributed. For those who have not paid, sweatshirts are $25 and sweats are $19. Bring your checkbooks. 
COME SEE THE IRISH WRESTLING TEAM take on No. 5 Nebraska at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the JACC. Gift certificates to Macri's Deli will be given away. 
OFF-CAMPUS LACROSSE -Anyone interested in planning call Mike or Pete at 287-2218, no talent necessary. 
THE HAPKIDO CLUB meets Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
TWO IYHL MINIMITE TEAMS will be in action in two exhibition hockey games between periods one and two of this Friday's Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin-Stevens Point hockey game. The Notre Dame game will begin at 7:30. 
STUDENTS INTERESTED in 1991 Bengal Bouts promotions should attend at meeting at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 13 in the Boxing Room at the JACC. 
THE ND/SMC WOMEN'S LACROSSE TEAM will have a meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 

The New York Rangers extended their lead in the Patrick Division over second-place Pittsburgh to four points with a 5-2 victory over the New York Islanders last night. 


WELCOMEYOURPARENTSTOJPWIN STYLE WITH ONE OF THESE GIFTS 
$7.00 
$13.50 
$13.00 
ORDER MONDAY-FRIDAY 4-8pm AT THE JPW OFFICE (3rd FLOOR LaFORTUNE, REYNOLDS ROOM) UNTIL FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8th. PICK-UP GIFTS ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13th OR THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14th. 
FOB MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-6028 
_T_h_ur_s_da_y_._F_e_br_u_a_ry_7_._1_9_9_1_________________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_~_e_r____________________________________________~p_a~g-e---1~7------~-l
I 
1 
1 
I 
•tS

ReC rU I 
continued from page 20 
touchdowns in his senior ymtr. lie also had five returns for touchdowns, prompting the ~~omparisons to Ismail. 
Miller is the crown jnwel of Notn~ Dame's Class of '95, one that falls far short of recent Irish dassns in the eyHs of the nation's rncruiting analysts. After finishing No. 1 in the country in rncruiting each of the past four years, Notre Damn had to rally to finish in tlw top 20 this season. 

Still, llollz had nothing but good things to say about the newest members of the Fighting Irish. 
"We have 24 very, very good competitors," he said. "You cannot play the game if you're not tough." 
Toughness is one yardstick Holtz uses to judge high school football talent. Speed is an­other. 
Lee Becton. a 5-11, 185­pound running back from Vanceboro, N.C., selected Notre Dame over North Carolina, South Carolina and North Carolina State. Becton, who ran for 2,011 yards and 32 touch­downs last season, is widely considered one of the top dozen running backs in the county and brings 4.5 speed to the Irish backfield. 
Linebacker Huntley Bakich from Dallas, Texas, a high hurdler who runs the 40 in 4.4 seconds, brings great quickness to the defense. Notre Dame beat out Miami, Texas and Colorado for the services of Bakich, who had nine sacks and 194 tackles during the '90 season. He was the eighth-ranked recruit out of Texas. 




ROUND T\NO: 
THE DETRIMENTAL ROLE OF ATHLETICS AT AMERICAN COLLEGES 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7TH 9PM 
Check posters in dorms for details . 
~TUDE •NT 
&OYIIIIIIJ 


Notre Dame recruited only one quarterback, Paul Failla of Wexford, Pa., but the 6-3, 185­pounder is also a top baseball prospect expected to be se­lected in the next Major League Baseball draft. Failla completed 63 of 118 passes for 1,289 yards and 14 touchdowns and ran for 11 more in his senior season. 
The Irish originally wanted quarterback Jeff McCrone, who instead opted for Florida State. McCrone is one of many highly-regarded prospects who slipped through Notre Dame's hands for one reason or another. 
Rumors of Holtz's uncertain future at Notre Dame, problems with the admissions office and unusually strong recruiting campaigns by Irish opponents left Notre Dame without many of its most highly-regarded prospects when national sign­ing day rolled around. 
"We lost a few more Iprospects] than what we're used to at Notre Dame," Holtz said. "We lost some athletes we really wanted very strongly." 
Holtz admittl~d that rumors of his departure from Notre Dame were "probably a factor" in Notre Dame's failure to land several prized prospects but denied published reports that changes in admissions 'stan­dards were to blame. 
"I have no qualms whatso­ever about decisions the admis­sions office makes," Holtz said. "If there was a breakdown in the process, it was in our [football] office, not in the admissions office." 
(A complete list of Irish signings is in the Scoreboard.) 


SuperPrep Top Five -Early Signings 
OFFENSE 
Quarterbacks 
1. Donnie Davis, 6-2, 190, Cummings H.S., Burlington, N.C., Georgia Tech. 2, Heath Shuler, 6-3, 190, Swain County H.S., Bryson City, N.C., Tennessee. 3, Eric Zeier, 6-1, 195, Marietta. Ga., 
'H.S., Georgia. 4, Justin Armour. 6·6, 215, Manitou Springs, Colo., 
H.S., Stanford. 5. Rob Johnson, 6-4, 2-5. El Toro, Calif., B.S., 
Southern Cal. 
Linemen 
1, Greg Frey, 6-6, 272. Clearwater, Fla., H.S.. Florida State. 2, 
John Elmore, 6-3, 250, Sherman, Texas, H.S., Texas. 3, David 
Weeks, 6-6, 245, Marist H.S.• Atlanta. Georgia. 4, Scott Joslyn, 6-4, 
295, Evans H.S., Orlando, Fla., Florida. 5, Robert Loya. 6-2, 280, 
Fontana, Calif .. B.S.. Southern Cal. 
Wide Receivers 
1, Mike Miller, 5-7, 160, Willowridge H.S., Missouri City, Texas, 
Notre Dame. 2, Bobby Engram, 5-11, 180, Camden, S.C.. H.S., 
Penn State. 3, Brian Brown, 5-9. 170, Grand Prairie, Texas, H.S., 
Arkansas. 4, Felman Malveaux. 6-0, 170, Hamshire-Fannett, 
Texas, H.S., Michigan. 5, Jack Jackson, 5-9, 170, Moss Point. 
Miss.. H.S., Florida. 
Tight Ends 
1, Dameian Jeffries, 6-5. 245, Comer H.S., Sylacauga, Ala., Auburn. 2, Greg Delong. 6-5, 235, Parkland H.S., Orefield. Pa., North Carolina: 3, Troy Stark, 6-6, 245, Canandaigua, N.Y., H.S., Georgia. 4. Jeremy Kennedy, 6-5, 230, Westmoore H.S., Moore, Okla., Florida. 
Running Backs 
1, Marquette Smith, 5·9, 192, Lake Howell B.S., Winter Park, Fla., Florida State. 2, Napolean Kaufman, 5-9, 168, Lompoc, Fla., H.S., Washington. 3, Stephen Pitts, 5-11, 195, South H.S., Middletown. N.J., Penn State. 4, Rodney Thomas, 5-11. 190, Groveton, Texas, H.S., Texas A&M. 
DEFENSE , 
Linemen 
1, Jason Layman. 6-6, 275, Sevier County H.S., Sevierville, 
Tenn., Tennessee. 2, Trent Zenkewicz, 6-5, 260, St. lgnacius H.S., Cleveland, Michigan. 3, Sam Adams, 6-3, 265, Cypress Creek B.S .. Houston, Texas A&M. 4, Cli.nt Moore, 6-4. 279, Longmont. Colo., 
H.S.• Colorado. 5, Antonio Robinson, 6-8 245, Frayser B.S., 
Memphis, Tenn., Tennessee. 
Backs 

1, Derrick Brooks, 6-1, 205, Washington, Fla., Pensacola, Fla.. 
Florida State. 2, Mike Hendricks, 5-11, 160, Judson H.S., Converse, Texas, Texas A&M. 3, Deollo Anderson. 6-1. 190, Ursuline H.S., Youngstown. Ohio, Michigan. 4, Darnell Stephens, 6­1, 205, Judson H.S., Converse, Texas, Clemson. 5, Rodney Young. 6-2, 190, Ruston. La .• H.S., LSU. 
Others: 6, Tracy Graham, 5-t1, 183, St. Rita H.S.• Chicago, 
Notre Dame. 
Linebackers 
1, Jamie Miller, 6-5, 220, El Cerrito, Calif., H.S., UCI.A. 2. Kevin Carter, 6-5, 230, Uncoln H.S., Tallahassee, Fla.. Florida. 3, Tom Tumulty, 6-4. 235, Penn Hills H.S., Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh. 4, Norman Watkins, 6-2, 210, Irving, Texas, H.S., Texas. 5, Dale Person, 6-2, 240, Vocational B.S., Chicago, Michigan State. 
Others: 7. Huntley Bakich, 6-3, 210, Wbite H.S., llallas, Notre Dame. 


The Observer 

page 18 Thursday, February 7, 1991 
Sun Belt invites in Metro holdovers 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. (AP) -The Sun Belt Conference has invited the four remaining Metro Conference schools to join, according to the athletic director at a Sun Belt school. 
The Sun Belt "extended a formal invitation to the four Metro schools," Jimmy Feix, athletic director at Western Kentucky, said Wednesday. 
The four Metro Conference schools are Louisville, Virginia Tech, Tulane and Southern Mississippi. 
He said the invitations were issued on "an individual basis" to each school. "They don't have to come in all at once," Feix said. 
But Bill Olsen, athletic direc­tor at Louisville, said his school is not interested. "For Louisville the Sun Belt is not something that's a viable op­tion or a preference." 
He said he did not know if Louisville or any other Metro school had received a formal invitation from the Sun Belt, but added that he would be "surprised if there was any in­terest." 
Because the Metro will be down to four members next s_eason, the conference stands to lose its automatic bid to the NCAA basketball tournament. Under current NCAA guide­lines, a conference must have at least six schools with continuous membership for five years to be eligible for the automatic bid. 
Last week an NCAA special committee said it would pro­pose a waiver to the rule. The committee recommended that a waiver of the "six-five" rule be granted after a one-year waiting period to a conference that previously was eligible for an automatic bid. 
During the waiting period, the conference would have to have at least six members that had been members of Division I for the last eight years. 
UNLV, Hogs prepare for showdown 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­The tents are up outside Barnhill Arena, the fmal indica­tion that Sunday's UNLV­Arkansas showdown is the col­lege basketball event of the 
season.  
But  first,  the  No.  2  
Razorbacks  (22-1) play  at  
Houston on Thursday night.  

"The big concern is the fact that Houston is a very good basketball team," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. "The times we've won down there, they were one-point and four-point victories. It will not be a cakewalk." 
And then there's Sunday's game at Barnhill, where stu­dents pitched tents outside the arena on Wednesday to claim a spot in line for general admis­sion tickets. 
"If you answer the phone in my office, I've never seen any­thing like it," Richardson said. "I mean, 99.9 percent of the calls are about tickets. People who went to school with me in the first grade, judges, lawyers, coaches. Coaches who I like them as friends saying, 'Hey, you've got to do me a favor. Can I have a couple?" 

So No. 1 vs. No. 2 is three days away. UNLV (18-0) brings its 29-game winning streak to town, while Arkansas has won 19 in a row after a loss to Arizona. 
Everyone knew the Runnin' Rebels would be ready to de­fend their national title this year, but Arkansas had a ques­tion mark or two entering the season. 
Last year, the Razorbacks had three sophomore starters. Todd Day was the scorer, Lee Mayberry the catalyst and Oliver Miller the assist man with the soft shooting touch. 
But most figured Lenzie Howell, who made plenty of big plays last year when Arkansas reached the Final Four, would be difficult to replace. 
Enter seniors Ron Huery and Arlyn Bowers. 
Bowers is the shortest player on the team at 5-foot-10. Huery comes off the bench by choice. 
Arkansas, while not as flashy as the Runnin' Rebels, has found ways to win. 
Day is still scoring, Mayberry is still doing the little things and Miller is blocking shots while shooting an incredible percentage. 
Day leads the SWC in scoring, averaging 21.9. He only needs 32 points to move into fifth place on the school's career scoring list. 
Mayberry has an assists-to­turnovers ratio of 3.2 with 125 assists and 39 turnovers. He already owns the school career assist record with 443. 
Miller leads the SWC in field goal percentage, .694, and in blocked shots with 81. He needs five more to break the one-sea­son school record he shares with Andrew Lang. 

Win 
continued from page 20 
of his career-high 24 points in the first five minutes of the second half. 
"I just hit my shots tonight. Usually I slump coming out in the second half, but I didn't do that tonight," said Ellery. The senior forward made all six of his shots in the second half, in­cluding three three-pointers. 
The second half was like a scene from a theater of the ab­surd from La Salle's per­spective. 
"This was probably the worst second half we've had in my five years here," said Morris. "We couldn't get it going. We got a little crazy today." 
Keith Tower continued his improved play, hitting 7-8 from the field on his way to 16 points. 
"I'm getting the ball in a range that's comfortable for me,"Tower said. "I've been working on shooting in the low post, and I'm very comfortable there now." 
Notre Dame shot 64.7 per­cent from the field for the game, a statistic that did not please La Salle's Morris. 
"Defensively we just didn't do a good job. We didn't pressure the ball, we didn't stop penetra­tion, those are the things we've been doing," he said. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps credited the attitude of the Irish as being a key to last night's game. 
"We have to go out there and get mad enough to say that we're tired of losing. They went in there and did everything they needed to do and they played well," he said. 
The Irish have another tough game on the horizon, with the Syr·acuse Orangemen coming to town Saturday, but the win over the Explorers gives Notre Dame some confidence going into that game. 
"It'll be interesting to see what happens Saturday with Syracuse, because we still have 10 games left," Phelps said. 
The Irish guards managed to Sweet made the two free get in the act as well. Elmer throws, and when the Irish got Bennett scored 13 of his 20 the ball back because of the in­
Duo 
continued from page 20 

points in the first half, and tentional foul, he scored inside getting ready for Syracuse is Daimon Sweet, who was re­to complete the six-point play important for us" placed by Ellery in the starting and give Notre Dame a 77-57 
After losing close decisions to lineup, finished with 16. Sweet lead. Virginia and Boston College last was the big scorer on what "It was a screwy play," Sweet week, the Irish really needed to amounted to a six-point play said. "I just went to the ball pull this one off. They did it which put the Explorers away after Brooks made a great play primarily because Ellery, who for good. to throw it back, and I just hit 9 of 11 shots from the field, went to the basket." and center Keith Tower, who is With 4:4 7 left in the game 
continuing to improve and and the Irish leading 71-57, Sweet said he didn't mind finished with 16 points, got the Tim Singleton came up with that he didn't start against the job done inside and outside. the ball in a scramble at the 
Explorers. He was just happy

Notre Dame foul line and 
that his team won. 

"Ellery made three out of four threw it ahead to freshman "I would like to start, but if three-pointers," Tower said. Brooks Boyer. Boyer caught the coaches think another "When he's doing that, it opens Singleton's heave and tossed rotation would be better for things up for me inside. And my an acrobatic behind-the-back the team, that's what they have pass to Sweet, who drove in to
outside game opens up some to go with," Sweet said. "I'll do things for him inside as well. I hit a reverse layup and was everything for the team, and fouled intentionally by
think Kevin and I complement I'm putting my individual scor­
Broderick President. 
each other very well." ing aside to help the team." 
In the :-\t::'\'1 station'"cornputer. go to \\ork. )ou en;n ~ct ~~ frcl· [fl~il 11·e've mana~ed to squeeze the most ,subscription 10 !\:cXT\\'()I{]J)'"mag­possible computer into the least azine. to keep \'ou up to dale. possible spacc.\\c\e ,l]so 'queczed :\nd ro make our n1se c\·c.:n more the most possihk: computer into the compelling. we'll send a free eop1 of lt:~lst pqsslhlc prit'e. the extraordinar\' sprcadsheel pro­
One low prict: includes not on]\' gram.l.otus lmpr01 Ia :"I>'J) ,·,duel. 
the kc\'board and monitor. hut a full 10 ei'Cf\Une ll'ho purclws'-"· and rq~is· 
eight nlegabvtes of lllCillOr\'. a built-in tcrs a Ne:'\Tstation or 1\:e:'\Tcube 
2.HH-me~:ab\'te Aopp1· disk dri1·e and c<llnpuH.:r. or :mll-m "l'~""lc hoard 
Ethernet.The Ne:'\Tstation is also before March 31, 1991.• 
equipped" ith a IO'i-megabyt.: hard We couldn't ewn guess where 
disk. onto which m.: ha,·e taken the I'OU could make a comJXlrahlc pur­
libcm· of installing a rather fonnida­chase. But we can tell \'OU ex"­
blc packa~e of software. including actln,·hcrc to make this '­
\VritcNow.·.1/athrmalim: NcXli11ail'" one:Check the space ~ 
and Di~ital Webster:· So all vou hm·c helmno tind the location riJiifl 
w do is plug it in and \'ou'rc read1· 10 of \'Our campus rescller. ,.-: 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN 
GET TWO BRUKTHROUGHS 
FOR THE PRICE OF ONE. 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
1990•1991 
SAINT MARv·s COLLEGE 
SATURDAY, FEB. 9, 8 P.M. 

BalletMet 
John McFall, Artistic Director $16/$14 SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS FREE WITH 1D 

JAN. 25-FEB. 26, MOREAU HALL GALLERIES• ADMISSION FREE 
Marilyn Lysohir, ceramics Juried Alumnae Exhibit 
GALLERY INFORMATION: 284-4655 SAT., FEB. 16, 8 P.M. 

THURS., FEB. 28, 7:30P.M. MOREAU HAll IlTTLE THEATRE 
TilE NATIONAL TOUR The South Bend 
Famous People 
Chamber Singers 

Players
A Solo Recital $12/$10 


All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Yisa/Maste!Card: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 67 4-0900, category 1740.
-------1%1-----­
Saint Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlA!'\ A 


Office of Univenity Computinij Computing Center/Math Builcting 
Phone: 239-7477 llours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00. 5:00 

'I •K~>Im11w• .will be d~lwcrcU ,.h~n ~·~•l•bk. tlt'NO NeX1'<..:oruputcr.lrK. 1\11 r!Jhlo rcsc:n·cd The ."'.:o:XT lu~u" a rcl(t~u:uU !ralk:JNtrlt,NcXT, Nc>.·rll•tKin. 'cXT.uhc. ~eXTmat I ~nd Dtl(tUI W~!Ktcr arc tmlcntark• of NcX'r Computcr.lnt.·.WrtteNU\0' I• IICK•Sicll:d uullcmuk ul Tlfl.t.ltcr Co ,iful~rllfllhrd., 1 ·~~'"coed u~demark of Wolfr1m Rc...:llt'h.lnc 1\11 uthcf trllkmark• mc:ntklncd be kin~~; to the if fnpt:<'tl\"C Q'olncn 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 
The Observer 

LECTURES CROSSWORD 

Thursday, February 7, 1991 
7:30 p.m. "The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace: The Bible and the Koran." Father David Burrell, Hesburgh Professor of Arts and Letters. Dooley Room, LaFortune. 
8 p.m. The 1991 Cushwa Lecture on Religion and Public Life: "The Return of the Catholic Liberal," Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, editor, Commonweal magazine. llesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Baked Sole w/Rice Dressing Manicotti 
Saint Mary's 

Baked Pork Chops Spaghetti w/meat sauce or marinara sauce Vegetable Stir Fry Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


FofZ PETE:'S SAKE:? HAL~ 

SUB Executive Council Applications for 1991-92 Now available from the Secretary, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Movies STRIPES : February 7 
THE ADVENTURES OF FORD FAIRLANE: 
Cushing Auditorium 
8:00 and 10:30 P.M. Admission: $2 

ACROSS 33 Is suffering from 64 Govt. branch 34 Thackeray 66 Articulate
1 Makes a decision 

character's 67 Equal, to Henri instrument? 
68 A first name in 39 "That would not5 Checks architecture10 Sale term 
lift-": Yeats 
69 Love14 Milne favorite 
42 Finnish author: 
10 Yegg's target 
15 Like xenon 1861-1921 71 James Bond 
16 Table game 43 Actress Shire adversary11 His, in Le Havre 44 Rock singer's 72 Descartes and 10 Sub's ears flourish? 
Auberjonois19Adjust 47 Suffix with host 73 Trap, in a way 
20 Actress's 48 Comedienne intelligence? Imogene 23 Item in the 49 TV studio DOWN sky? apparatus 
1 Iridescent 24 Bud's partner 52 Network letters 
mineral 25 Part of A.D. 54 Persian poet 

2 It's sometimes 26 Chatter 57 Strange gadget played in water 27 Pitches Seaver 58 Balderdash 3 See the sights 
served 59 Actor's 4 Protection 31 Hiatuses fastener? 
5 Trouble &Wild ox of puzzledomANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7 High I.Q. group a Seafood delicacy 9 Fibrous R:.:..r:t+-7i 10 Inclined 
1Ql!~~~~ 11 Comedian's
f.! drinks? 12 District in Asia 
Minor 13 Polished 21 Hammer at an 
angle 
22 Honor .,;+=+::~ 27 Catch flies -:-:+:-t:::+.:=-1 28 Lion portrayer ..:,;.+.,.;+.:~ 29 Musician's 
bird? 
30 Assurance 
32 Govt. home­building org. 35 "The Sweet­
hea~ of Sigma 
36 Mayor Dinkins's predecessor 37 Word with sun 
or moon 38 History 40 Sgt. or cpl. 41 Ornamentation 45 Type of urn 
SPELUNKER 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

46 Ma and Pa of films 50 Loser to D.D.E. 51 Abhor 52 Set of principles 53 Louis or Ali 55 Adobe construction 
56 Exploratory mission, for short 
eo Thin 61 Seaweed 
derivative &2 Site for a bite 63 "Demon as 
Pirate" painter &5 Dove sound 
------------·--. 

page 20 Thursday, February 1,1991 
·-----· 

---~ 
Sports 

Irish take control in 2nd half of win over La Salle 
Notre Dame shoots over 64 percent in 84-68 victory 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
Some days, just about every­thing goes right. Then there are other days when absolutely nothing goes right. The crowd of 9,231 who saw the Irish dismantle the La Salle Explorers 84-68 last night got to see both extremes. 
On the one hand, there was Notre Dame. Just about every­thing the Irish shot went in, leading some to wonder if Notre Dame had acquired the "smart-bomb" technology that guides the U.S. military's mis­siles used against Iraq. 
The Explorers directly con­trasted the Irish. La Salle bombed three-point attempt after three-point attempt, only to watch 23 of 32 clank off the rim, where the Irish were wait­ing to scoop up the rebounds. 
"(Our players) were overcon­fident," said Explorer coach Bill "Speedy" Morris. "I don't know why, we haven't had much success here. It's Notre Dame. I don't care who they have wearing those uniforms, it's a tough place to win." 
La Salle had the lead for ex­actly 29 seconds when Randy Woods hit his first shot, a tri­fecta that gave the Explorers a 3-2 lead with just under two minutes gone in the game. From that point on, the game belonged to the Irish. 

The Irish ran off 14 points in five minutes, including four points from Elmer Bennett, be­fore La Salle could manage an­other point. 
The Explorers closed the gap to one just 21 seconds before the first half ended on the basis of a 7-2 run that finished with Woods converting the three­point play after being fouled by Bennett. 
"I told the kids at halftime that we were fortunate to be one down, we played terrible," Morris said. 
The Explorers made only 10 of 35 shots in the opening stanza, for a horrid 28.6 per­cent. But half of those were three-pointers, and La Salle shot a perfect 11-11 from the charity stripe, nearly offsetting the 58.3 percent field-goal shooting of Notre Dame. 
The hot shooting continued, and even improved, for the Irish in the second half, as they shot 70.4 percent in the second period. Kevin Ellery scored 10 
see WIN/ page 18 
Trail Blazers, Celtics surprise NBA followers 
The NBA All-Star game is this Sunday in Charlotte, and as the league winds down to its annual three-day break, several things surprise me about the 1990-91 season. 
First, the Portland Trail Blazers. have the best record in the NBA (38-9) as of Wednesday. Even I, one of their biggest fans. would have laughed at the notion that the Blazers would be the best team record-wise in the league this season. But the success the team experienced in last year's playoffs has carried into the regular season. 
I'm puzzled, however, that Portland would trade for Walter Davis. The Sporting News reported that the Blazers made the trade in part because they didn't want any other Western Con­ference rival picking up the North Carolina alum, especially division rivals Phoenix and Los Angeles. 
Defense, never one of Davis' strong suits, has keyed Portland's success this season, so it remains to be seen just how well Davis fits in with the team. 
Just when you thought you were finally rid of them, the Los Angeles Lakers (35-11) run off 16 straight wins and climb right back into contention. So their 2-5 start threw me off. I could dream that "Showtime" finally could be over, couldn't I? 


Rene Ferran 
Sports Writer 
Magic Johnson and James Worthy have been the catalysts during their current streak, and Dallas must be ruing the fact that it let Sam Perkins go as a free agent, especially with Roy Tarpley out for the season. 
Speaking of Dallas (16-27), everybody thought this might be the year it could go all the way. But injuries to Tarpley and Fat Lever have the Mavericks struggling just to stay in contention for the eighth playoff spot in the West. 
Phoenix {30-15) made a huge move by trading for Xavier McDaniel earlier this season. The X-Man had worn out his welcome in Seattle, and the Suns only gave up Eddie Johnson, another player in the Davis mold who can shoot all day, but don't ask him to guard someone. 
In the Midwest Division, San Antonio (31-13) and Utah (30-16) are battling it out for the top spot. Both the Spurs and the Jazz have been hit by 
see NBA I page 16 

Inside-out duo of 
Tower and Ellery 
leads Irish attack 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
They finally got it. 
A big victory over a good team last night had the Notre Dame basketball team cau­tiously optimistic. With 10 games left, the Irish, who de­feated La Salle 84-68, still are hoping to put a winning streak together which will put them into the NCAA tournament. 
They know that with teams like Syracuse. Temple, St. John's, Louisville and Missouri on the schedule, a few key victories can boost them into the tourney. 
"This win feels good, but we've still got 10 games left," said Kevin Ellery, who led Notre Dame with a career-high 24 points. "I don't think this win tonight will get us into the tournament, but we've got a big game coming up this weekend against Syracuse and we're looking forward to that. 
"We had a couple of tough breaks last week, and now 
see DUO 1page 18 

Miller highlights '91 recruiting class 
BY FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Even an NCAA gag order failed to keep Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz from singing the praises of wide receiver Mike Miller at Wednesday's teleconference on national signing day. 
Speaking in compliance with an NCAA regulation restricting coaches and administrators from talking about football re­cruits until they have officially signed a national letter of in­tent, Holtz first consulted with Sports Information Director John Heisler to confirm Miller's signing and then described the swift receiver from Sugarland, Texas, in familiar terms. 

"It's scary when you go into his home," Holtz said. "He looks like Rocket [Ismail], he talks like Rocket, his facial ex­pressions are like Rocket. He's not quite as tall as Rocket, but he's got that same bubbly per­sonality. They tell me he might be faster than Rocket. He's probably more advanced as a wide receiver than Rocket at this stage. 
"But," Holtz cautions, "do not expect him to be another Rocket." 
The 5-7, 185-pound speedster from Willowridge High is the fourth-ranked recruit out of Texas and is the fastest prep star of the '91 recruiting class (4.3 in the 40). He rushed for 635 yards and eight touchdowns and caught 35 passes for 640 yards and six 
see RECRUITS I page 17 

Michigan, Penn St. grab top recruits 
(AP) -The rich got richer in college football Wednesday as traditional powers Penn State, Michigan and Florida State led the way in signing top high school prospects. 
"Penn State got the best group of running backs, some great people on the offensive line and a couple of outstand­ing linebackers," said Allen Wallace, publisher of SuperPrep magazine. 
"Michigan got the best group of defensive linemen, the two best quarterbacks from the state of Michigan and the best athlete from the Midwest. And Florida State got the best run­ning back, the best defensive back and the best offensive lineman in the country." 
Wednesday was the first day high school players could sign letters of intent. 
Florida State's prize recruits include three homestate stars -running back Marquette Smith of Winter Park, offensive lineman Greg Frey of Clearwater and defensive back Derrick Brooks of Pensacola. SuperPrep rated each player as the best in the nation at his po­sition. 

Michigan signed highly rated quarterback Craig Randall of Grand Rapids, Mich., and four of SuperPrep's top 20 defensive linemen, including second­rated Trent Zenkewicz of Cleveland. 
The Wolverines also got one of the nation's top defensive backs, Deollo Anderson of Youngstown, Ohio; SuperPrep's No. 4 receiver, Felman Malveaux of Hamshire, Texas; and all-around star Tyrone Wheatley of Dearborn, Mich. 
Unlike most schools, Penn State doesn't release its list of recruits. But Wallace said the Nittany Lions were expected to sign SuperPrep's second-rated receiver, Bobby Engram of Camden, S.C., and two running backs ranked in the top 10 ­Stephen Pitts of Middletown, N.J., and Kijana Carter of Westerville, Ohio. 
The Nittany Lions also re­portedly got three of the top 10 offensive line prospects ­Andre Johnson of Southampton, N.Y., Marco Rivera of Elmont, N.Y., and Scott Stratton of West Chester, Ohio. 
Georgia Tech went unde­feated last season and won the coaches' national champi­onship, but Wallace said the Yellow Jackets were outre­cruited in their own state by Georgia. 
"The Bulldog tradition is hard to beat," Wallace said. "Plus Georgia Tech can't get some kids because of their tough academic standards." 











