
VOL. XXIII NO. 107 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Many U.S. troops to come home Thursday 
WASHINGTON (API -The Bush administration said Tues­day it would steer clear of the dvil strife that has hit Iraq fol­lowing the Gulf War and warned Iraq's neighbors to do the samfl. The Pentagon made plans to weleomo home up to 15,000 veterans of the war during the next week. 
President Bush hailed the troops as "American heroes" and said "home towns all across America" will welcome them home soon. 
"Their magnificent victory in the gulf has brought a renewed stmse in pride and confidence here at home," Bush said. "It's contagious, it's all over our country. You can feel it every single minute." 
White I louse spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwatnr said the adminis­tration welcomed the mlease of 35 American and allied prison­ers of war to Hed Cross officials in Baghdad. 
Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said the POWs, of which 15 are Americans, will he flown out of Baghdad on Wednesday after an allied transport carries 294 Iraqi POWs back home. lie said poor weather had delayed the ex-

Mills/Siawner wins GSU's first campus-wide elections 
change, which had been sched­uled for Tuesday. 
Maj. Gen. Martin Brandtner, the deputy director of opera­tions for the Joint Staff, said interviews with the first six U.S. POWs to be released indicated "they were treated well." 
The general said there was no reason to doubt Iraqi claims that they held no more allied prisoners. 
At the State Department, spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler cautioned Iran and other outsiders to stay out of the civil strife that has affiicted a dozen Iraqi cities. 
"The United States respects and believes in the territorial integrity of Iraq, and we do not believe that other states should involve themselves in the inter­nal matters of Iraq, and that other states should refrain from interfering in Iraq's internal affairs," she said. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said "significant unrest" directed against President Sad­dam Hussein has occurred in­side Iraq, but that the United States and its coalition partners won't get involved. 
''I'm not sure whose side 
VOTES 
72 46 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

By MEREDITH 
McCULLOUGH 
News Writer 
Kurt Mills and Karen Slawner were electod president and ex­t~eutive vice president of the Graduate Student Union (GSU) for the 1991-1992 year Tuesday in the first campus-wide elec­tions of this kind ever held. 
Of the 11 R ballots cast, the Mills/Slawner ticket captured 72 votes while the opposing ticket, Michael Brooks and Chris Meyer received 46 votes. 
After hearing of the results Slawner responded, "We are both really glad we won and are very excited about what we havll planned for nllxt year." She expressed a hope that Brooks and Meyer would con­tinue to work with the GSU by offering somll of the innovative idllas that they presented dur­ing the campaign. 
Slawner said that the team plans to follow through with the items mentioned in their statement of intent which was published earlier in The Ob­Sflrver. In this way they want to incrHase the level in which graduat11 students are involved in the GSU. 
During their term they will focus on issues such as improving day care, increasing the level of stipends, work.ng with the administration to revise duLac, and developing a woman's Cflnter, said Mills. Voicing graduate students' nfleds is a primary concern. 
Chris MHyer expressed his good wishfls for his opponents and recognized them as "experienced, capable candi­dates." 
According to current GSU President Arsene Balihuta, the turnout was encouraging con­sidering this was the first elec­tion conducted among all grad­uatfl students. 
Balihuta explained that in the past, executive officers were ei­ther chosen by the Graduate Student Union Council (GSUC) or volunteered their services on their own. He hopes that such democratic selection of GSU leadership becomes a tradition. 
He realizes that while 118 votfls from about 1,400 students may seem like "a low turnout on general election terms, as a start it is a success." He attributes this victory to intense publicity and an active current GSUC. 
Mills and Slawner will offi­cially begin their term of office on March 20 at the final GSUC meeting of the year. 




OPERATION 

DESERT STORM 
• Iraq in chaos/ page 6 
you'd want to be on," Cheney said. 
As for homecoming U.S. troops, Pentagon military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 4,400 mem­bers of the Army's XVIII Air­borne Corps, including mem­bers of the 82nd Airborne Divi­sion, would be among the first group returning on Thursday. 
The sources said Bush was expected to welcome them at Andrews Air Force base outside Washington, but White House deputy spokesman 
see TROOPS I page 4 


St. Ed's wins Icebergs final 
By CHRIS WILKINSON 
News Writer 
St. Edward's Hall defeated Lyons Hall with a unanimous judges' decision in Tuesday's finals of the Iceberg Debates. 
The teams debated the idea "that the University Adminis­tration should officially recog­nize the Gay and Lesbian Club at Notre Dame." 
St. Edward's sister-brother team of Catherine and Robert Pritchard held the affirmative position, and Lyons team mem­bers Janessa Griffin and Eliza­beth Vida argued the negative position. 
Both sides stressed the three objectives of the Gay and Les­bian Club as published in the club's literature: Support, Fel­lowship and Communication. 
St. Edward's attacked the 
University administration's "unreasonable attitudes to­wards homosexuals." They said that since the Catholic Church has recognized homosexuality within a celibate life is accept­able in the Catholic faith, the University should do the same. 
The St. Edward's team said that 45.7 percent of Notre Dame's population has a nega­tive attitude towards homosex­uals. They argued that there could be no change in the way students view homosexuality until the University officially recognized their position. 
Lyons attacked the three goals of the club. In terms of support, they argued that ho­mosexuals could find the sup­port they may need in estab­lished University programs, such as the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. 
In terms of communication, Lyons cited last semester's seminars on homosexuality as proof that the administration is working to dispel ignorance of homosexuality. 
Lyons questionfld the motives behind the fellowship goal of the club. In a brochure, they found references to the forma­tion of spousal relationships from contact within the club setting. Lyons argued that the Catholic Church was opposed to physical homosexual contact and to support thfl formation of clubs that would foster such contact was opposed to the moral teachings of the Church. 
St. Edward's said that people need an outlflt in people with whom they can identify. They also cited a study that con-
see ICEBERGS I page 4 


The Observer/Nicole McGrath 


Lunchtime in Lafortune 
Customers fill The Huddle in LaFortune at lunchtime in the last week before Spring Break commences. 
~--­-----~-­

page 2 Wednesday, March 6, 1991
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Boats, saints are mysteries to be pondered 
Maybe there are some things in life that are just not meant to be understood by the human 

mind. Or, maybe it's just ------­
that the pressure of 

midterm week tends to Amy Eckert 
produce bizarre thoughts 

in the minds of college Ad Design Mgr. 
students. Lately, I've 

found myself thinking more than usual about 
the great mysteries of life. 

For one, how do they get those immense boats, vans and pieces of farm equipment into the middle of University Park Mall? This is a question that has puzzled me since my youth. 
There seems to be no conceivable way to get them into the mall. Is it possible that the UP Mall boat shows can actually defy the laws of physics as we understand them? 
City  H  L  
Athens  48  43  
Atlanta  66  32  
Berlin  45  32  
Boston  47  37  
Chicago  52  25  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  96  48  
Denver  54  33  
Detroit  50  23  
Honolulu  79  67  
Houston  84  52  
Indianapolis  61  27  
London  54  48  
Los Angeles  62  54  
Madrid  59  41  
M1ami Beach  7 4  56  
Moscow  39  16  
New Orleans  73  47  
New York  52  38  
Paris  57  52  
Philadelphia  57  35  
Portland, Ore.  48  34  
Rome  64  41  
St. Louis  59  38  
San Franc1sco  58  48  
South Bend  54  25  


My most recent theory is that they are taken there, every part is brought into the mall individually and then they are reassembled inside. 
The obvious drawback to this is that by the time they were taken apart and put back together, the show would be over. 
A less mundane possibility is that these events take place outside of time and space. Perhaps they have their own existence, which we are allowed to share for a few days a month. 
I think that I've spent too much time thinking about this. 
Another of the mysteries of my life is of a religious nature. I would give non-vital body parts to know why rational people put clas­sified ads in newspapers addressed to saints. Do they really believe that the saints read the newspaper? 
How do they think the saints are going to get the paper in the first place? I, for one, would hate to have heaven on my paper route. Not only would it be one heck of a long bike ride, but they don't even have any earthly goods with which to tip their paper carriers. 
A third question that I've been pondering of late is more directly related to my life. In the three years that I've been at Notre Dame, I have never been able to come up with a reasonable way to explain why the "close door" buttons in the library elevators never work. 
I'm afraid that it is some kind of psychology experiment to find out how people behave when they feel helpless. 
Another equally disturbing possibility is that 
•student Government Leadership awards 
there is a hidden camera inside the elevator nomination forms are now available in the Student Ac­
and somebody laughs himself or herself sick tivities office, Room 315 LaFortune. The deadline is watching the people who frantically push the March 19. 
idiot buttons. 

•seniors who are planning on interviewing for the
Maybe I'll never find the answers to my questions, but these excursions into the Archdiocese of New York Service Project, contact Marymysterious unknown make everyday life more 
Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns for 
interesting, especially during midterm week. 
transportation. 
The views contained in this column are 
•WSND-FM is now taking applications for the 
those of the author and not necessarily those 
following positions for the 1991-92 academic year: Traffic 
ofThe Oserver. 

& Continuity, Program Director, Business Manager, Chief Announcer. News Director. Nocturne Director and Chief Engineer. Resumes are due in the Student Activities office by March 20. For information call Cathy at 283-1321. 
Tuesday's Staff 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY
News Systems

Paul Pearson 
Frank Rivera 

Mark Sloan Sports 
Edouard A. Beauvais Dave McMahon 
•In 1475: The artist Michelangelo was born.
Accent Graphics 

• In 1836: The Alamo in San Antonio, Texas, fell to Mexi­
John Fischer 
Production 

Jake FrostPaige Smoron 
can forces after a 13-day siege. 
Usa Bourdon Mike Muldoon Melissa Cusack 
• In 1857: In its "Dred Scott" decision, the U.S. Supreme
Kristin Lynch Brendan Regan 

Court held that Scott, a slave, could not sue for his freedom in
Ad Design VIewpoint Circulation 

a federal court.
Doug Bronsing Rich Riley Bill O'Rourke Traci Hupp 

• In 1933: A nationwide bank holiday declared by Presi­
Matt Novak Kevin Hardman 
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt went into effect. 
Amy Eckert 

• In 1981 : Walter Cronkite signed off for the last time as anchorman of "The CBS Evening News" after 19 years on the job.
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
• One year ago: The Soviet parliament overwhelmingly 
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. Ail reproduction 
approved legislation allowing people to own factories and hire 
rights are reserved. 
workers for the first time in nearly seven decades. 
FORECAST: 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

:J8~t~n ~g~~raR~-:"!~u'r~"us !ltne18 
Africa -Winnie Mandela is to return to court Wednesday for the resumption of her kidnap and assault trial, but the prosecution's case is in jeopardy with one witness missing and two others too scared to testify. Judge 
M.S. Stegmann postponed the trial on Feb. 14 for three weeks when prosecutor Jan Swanepoel said it would be "impossible" to continue without the witnesses. The three young men are the survivors of the alleged kidnap and beating and were expected to give damaging testimony about Mrs. Mandela, the wife of African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela. Mrs. Mandela and three co-defendants pleaded innocent Feb. 11 to four counts of kidnap and four counts of assault. The four are charged with taking part in the abduction and beating of four young men in December 1988. One of them, Stompie Seipei, 14, was found dead in a field with his throat slit. The prosecution's first major setback also came Feb. 11, when Swanepoel announced that witness Gabriel Mekowe was missing. The following day, witnesses Kenneth Kgase and Tabiso Mono refused to testify, saying Mekowe's disappearance had frightened him. 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
Notre Dame Orchestra concert scheduled for Thursday at 8 p.m. has been postponed and rescheduled for 8:15p.m., Wednesday, March 27, in Washington Hall. 

•rhe 
1992 Sophomore Literary Festival committee applications are available at the SUB desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due March 27. 

•A 
van drivers training seminar will be offered for those who have not previously attended, and are planning to request use of Center for Social Concern's vans. The course will be offered Thursday, March 7. at 5 p.m. at the esc. 

•stand-up 
comedians are needed for Student Union Board Comedy Night on April 3. For information. call Adam at 283-3374. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 4, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 253.70 Million 306.85 + 0.31 S&P COMPOSITE 376.72 .. 7.39 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,972.52 • 58.41 
PRECIOUS METALS 

ro.D • $3.25 to $ 366.30oz. 
SILVERf-1.9¢ to $ 3.841!oz. 

Cloudy, windy and colder today with a 50 percent chance of light rain show­ers until noon. Highs in the lower 40s early, falling through the 30s in the afternoon. 
TEMPERATURES: 


Loot found buried in Brazilian beach 
•RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -Police unearthed nearly $6 million in cash stuffed in suitcases and buried on a northeastern beach, and identified it as loot from Brazil's biggest bank robbery, a TV network said Tuesday. Officers, acting on a tip, found the haul plus several pistols at Janga Beach just outside Recife, capital of Pernambuco state, 635 miles northeast of Rio, Globo TV said. The money was half the $12 million stolen by 20 heavily armed bandits on Feb. 12 from a steel vault of the state-owned Banco do Brasil in the northern Amazon port city of Belem, police told the network. 

NATIONAL 
•vi 
All , Calif.-A gunman proclaiming "those drugs kill babies" narrowly missed a judge who had ordered a woman to use a birth control implant as a condition of probation. Superior Court Judge Howard Broadman dropped to the floor behind his desk in a courtroom Monday when the shot was fired, said authorities and witnesses. The gunman then placed his .357-magnum revolver on the bailiffs desk, said Ward Stringham, an attorney who was in court. " 'I'm guilty. I did it. Those drugs kill babies,' " Stringham quoted the gunman as saying. Harry Raymond Bodine, 44, was arrested for investigation of attempted murder, said prosecutor Gerald Sevier. In January, Broadman ordered a woman convicted of child abuse to have the new Norplant long­term birth control device implanted under her arm. 
-------~---------------~---------------------------­
I

Wednesday, March 6, 1991 The Observer page3 





Prejudice does not explain all race troubles, Williams says 
By KEVIN GRUBEN News Writer 
In his lecture on "Race and Sex Discrimination in the Economy," Walter Williams stressed that discrimination alone cannot explain the so­cioeconomic problems faced by black Americans today. 
Williams, the John M. Olin Foundation Distinguished Pro­fessor of Economics from Ge­orge Mason University. began his lecture Tuesday by stating that other ethnic minorities, such as Jews or Orientals, while also experiencing a long history of discrimination in the United States, are now near. or at the top of the economic ladder. 
"Resources should not be put into getting rid of discrimina­tion, but into other areas," Williams added. 
lie went on to give examples of some of the problems which he said have had a major effect on denying blacks socioeco­nomic advances. He said that one of these problems is the present public school system. 
"The public education system Is giving blacks a fraudulent education." he said. "In fact, black education is the worst where blacks are in charge. Ra­cial discrimination cannot ex­plain poor education. The sys­tem needs change." 
Williams stated that busing and other methods of racial­mixing are not effective in mending this system, but are in fact racist themselves. 
According to Williams, crime and the eroding black family structure propose other hurdles for blacks trying to gain economic equality. He said that the erosion of the black family structure and the rise of illegit­imate births among blacks are relatively new trends and are not due to discrimination. 
"The black family was stronger and felt more secure in their neighborhoods in the 1960s," said Williams, "when there was even more discrimi­nation." 
Williams also stated that. while it is difficult to implement effective governmental policy which will help blacks economi­cally, there are several laws which cut off the bottom rungs of the economic ladder. He said that many of those regarded as "black leaders" in government go against the opinions of the mainstream black American. 
"Stop following blindly those who argue that blacks cannot advance until we eliminate ev­ery vestige of discrimination," Williams said. 
Although his lecture focused on the economic discrimination faced by blacks, he did address briefly the issue of sex discrim­ination. Williams said that in­stead of discrimination against women, the institution of mar­riage and the choice of many women in their college majors has an effect on limiting their ability to achieve economic equality. 
Williams ended his lecture by • saying that over the past 100 years, black Americans have made some of the greatest gains in the history of man. 
"Large problems still re­main," he said, "but we should acknowledge their achieve­ments, and not regard black people as victims." 
The lecture by Williams was sponsored by the Student Union Board in conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns. 

Attention Notre Dame Clubs and Organizations!! 
Deadline to return completed registration packets for next year is Friday, March 8, 1991. 
Deadline to request a check from the Student Body Treasurer's Office for this year's allocation is 
Monday, April 
Questions?? Call 283-2086 or Stop By the Office (207 LaFortune) 
8, 1991. 

ClubCoordinationCouncil 

STUDENT SENATE CANDIDATES 

ICAMPUS I 
One representative per district 
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
For the third consecutive year, Notre Dame has been named to the John Templeton Foundation Honor Roll of colleges and universities that "encourage the development of strong moral character among students." 
"Notre Dame is one of 108 schools selected on the basis that it is a university that is relatively drug free, promotes a high standard of personal conduct, fosters a sense of responsibility to both community and world and emphasizes attitudes of caring. giving and forgiving," said Dudly Wooley, a representative for the Marketing Research Institute. which represents the foundation. 
The foundation was created by investment advisor and philanthropist John Marks Templeton on the principle that the "moral fiber of our nation comes primarily from three 
IOFF CAMPUS I 
One co-representative pair 
sources: the family, the church and our educational institutions." 
According to the foundation handbook, the purpose of the honor roll is three-fold: to recognize institutions which presently teach character development and value building, to inspire other schools to emulate these insitutions and to provide a list of colleges for prospective students, parents and donors who are interested in more than scholasticism. 
"The honor roll is a reminder that higher education means inspiring students not only to learn, but also to learn how to live," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "Values have pride of place at Notre Dame so I find it particularly gratifying that the University has again been chosen for this award." 
Other schools that made the honor roll include DePaul University and Stetson University. 


God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A ooe-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
page4 The Observer 
Wednesday, March 6, 1991 


By STEVEN KRAUSS News Writer 
Kevin Roxas of Morrissey Hall and Charlie James of Pangborn Hall were elected as co­chairmen of the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) during their meeting in Siegfried Hall Tuesday. 
Roxas and James will head the council for next year and the remainder of this year. 
James discussed some goals for next year, among them in­ter-quad formals to foster campus unity. On a serious note, he expressed a wish to 
Icebergs 

continued from page 1 
eluded it is impossible to change a person's sexual pref­erence after the thirteenth year. 
The judges for the debate were Michael Brown, professor of management; Lt. Edward Fairbairn, instructor of naval science; Cristina Giannantonio, professor of management; Joyce Manthay, admissions co­ordinator of the MBA program; and James O'Rourke, director of ND Center for Business Communication, Management. 
The Best Speaker award went to Catherine Pritchard. 
"give HPC more representation on the Senate by creating quad representatives." 
Also on the HPC agenda were nominations for the Irish Clover Award, given to the student, faculty or administrator who has best served the Notre Dame community in the past year. Several names were mentioned, including Gil).a Mahoney, founder of Safewalk, and Paul Radich, who organized the Wednesday Lunch Fast pro­gram. 
In other news: 

•Hugh McGowen was intro­duced as one of Alumni Hall's newly-elected co-presidents. 
•March 
29 is the last day for dorms to seek matching funds from the Student Government purchasing committee. 

•
Badin Hall and Carroll Hall announced their formal will take place April 5. 

•
Knott Hall has moved its SYR to April6. 

•April 
8 is the last day hall funds may be spent. 

•Applications 
for Rector of the Year and Sowder of the Year are due at the next HPC meeting, March 20 in Sorin Hall. 



INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE 
DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MARCH 4-8 
10:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. 
•Portfolio Bags  •Coffee Mugs  
•Short Sleeve Polo Shirts  •Cotton Sweaters  
•Cotton & Velour Blankets  •Sweatshirts  
•Official Miami T-Shirts  •ND Rub-ons  

You won't find better prices anywhere! Great Gifts for Spring Break .and Easter!! 
ND wins high school student program grant 
By MIKE SCARSELLA News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame has been awarded a two­year summer program that brings to campus area high school students to participate in science research projects by the National Science Foundation. 
According to Mario Borelli, associate professor of mathe­matics and director of special instructional projects and activ­ities, thirty seniors and five ju­niors will receive six weeks of training and begin a research project under the direction of ND faculty this summer. The students will work in the areas of biology, chemistry, physics and engineering. 
Two students from each high school will be chosen by a selection committee consisting of local high school teachers and representatives from the ND Colleges of Science and Engineering. 
Borelli applied to the National Science Foundation earlier this year and received the grant. 
"While planning the project, I had the help and advice of some local high school teachers," he said. 
Borelli stated that the stu­dents will receive minimal pay for their work but the project is basically an "enrichment op­portunity for the students." 
The students will work five days a week for six weeks. The work will consist of library re­search and hands on experi­ments in the laboratories. 
The topics of the project range from Research Method­ology to Ethics and Values in Science and Engineering. The project will continue into the fall with ND faculty giving lec­tures at the various high schools. 
Borelli is looking forward to working with students who will "take advantage of this oppor­tunity to advance themselves." According to Borelli, the project is, "a service of the University to the local educational com­munity." 

Troops 
continued from page 1 
Roman Popadiuk said he was not aware of plans for a presidential welcome. 
Within a week of the initial return ceremony, up to 15,000 members of all service branches are expected to be back in the United States from the gulf area, said a senior Pentagon official. 
The official said the rede­ployment of Operation Desert Storm's 540,000 troops "will begin this week," and that Bush was expected to address the issue of the timing of the massive return Wednesday night in his speech before a joint House-Senate session. 



ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage 
Reserve Your Space Now! 
NQ Administration Fee 
NO. Deposits 
NQ Increased Rents for Students 
NQ Worries about Break­Ins While on Vacations .YES_Security System YES On Site Manager YES Free Locks for 
Students YES Low Prices YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 


North Side of Dougla• Rd. Between Grape Rd. and St. Rd. 
/ 
23 



Wednesday, March 6, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Novello asks brewers to stop targeting students 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Sur­geon General Antonia Novello took aim Tuesday at binge drinking by college students, complaining that "Spring break used to be when~ the boys are. Now it's where the booze is." She called on brewers to stop running promotions that appeal to underage drinkers. 
"Unfortunately, spring break has become synonymous with excessive and binge drinking by our young people," Novello said. 
Novello began her news con­ference by showing a videotape of throngs of drunken students clogging the streets of Palm Springs, Calif., during spring break three years ago. 
"I want to say to our young people that it is time to put on the brakes with regard to their drinking," she said. Novello ex­pressed hope the message would carry far beyond this spring's vacations. 
"This is the wave of the fu­ture," she said. 
Novello said young people have been bombarded with ad­vertisements that lead them to believe drinking is "an accept­able rite of passage, a neces­sary path for them to follow." 
She appealed to alcohol man­ufacturers and retailers to "take a more responsible pos­ture" in their marketing and promotion tactics during this year's spring break. 
She said the Beer Institute "responded favorably" to her appeal and had indicated that brewers would not "take their tents, their hats, umbrellas and other promotional materials to spring break this year." 
James Sanders, president of 


Dr. Antonia Novello 

the Beer Institute, said manu­facturers in the past had pro­vided "diversionary recre­ational opportunities" during spring break such as contests and games to take the empha­sis away from drinking. He said the brewers were unfairly blamed for the unruly behavior of students who lost control and that most brewers would stay away altogether this year. 

LAFAVETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
"They just decided there's no vention within the Department way they can win," Sanders of Health and Human Services. said. "The real activities they Novello was accompanied by were sponsoring never came college students and adminis­through." trators who joined the call for 
restraint. 

He said alcohol manufactur­Bobby Heard, a 23-year-old ers abide by an advertising student at the University of code that tries to avoid target­Texas, said thousands of stu­ing people under age 21. dents already are converging 
Novello said: on beaches in his state for this 
year's break. 

• 
The average student spends "more money on booze than on Last year's celebration at books." South Padre Island featured 

• 
Alcohol is one of the leading continual drinking on the causes of death among young beaches, intoxicated couples adults. having sex in hot tubs and 

• 
Alcohol is a factor in 21 young women stripping on their percent of all college dropouts. hotel balcony for a drunken 

• 
Among those currently in crowd below, he said. college, between 240,000 and "We as young people have to 360,000 eventually will lose take control of this situation," their lives due to drinking. he said. "Many young people 

• 
Most college students drink are tired of confusing messages more beer than anything else. and being unfairly targeted by 


The figures came from the the alcohol industry with their Office for Substance Abuse Pre-misleading advertising." 
Officials probe recorders of Colorado plane crash 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -As residents looked on from a nearby apartment com­plex, investigators Tuesday dug up pieces of embedded wreck­age of a United jetliner that plunged into a park, killing all 25 on board. 
The smell of burned plastic still hung in the air Tuesday, two days after the Boeing 737 came down at a sharp angle five miles short of Colorado Springs Municipal Airport, burying much of itself in the ground. 
Federal officials, who said it was too early to conclude that air turbulence, pilot error or low fuel supply might be to blame, examined flight data and cockpit recorders Tuesday. 
Debris was scattered across an area about the size of a football field after the plane crashed in a small park in the Widefield community in the foothills of the Rocky Moun­tains. 

Flight 585 narrowly missed an apartment complex and houses. Residents, some of whom witnessed the crash, watched as a dozen investiga­tors scoured the site. 

Correction 
In yesterday's article an­
nouncing the 1991-92 General 
Board for The Observer, the 
following board members 
were ommitted: 
James Colucci, a junior 
Aerospace Engineering major 
at ND, has been named 
Production Manager. lie is 
from Boca Raton, Fla., and 
currently serves as an 
Assistant Production Manager. 
Mark Sloan, an ND junior 
from Rochester, NY, will serve 
as the Systems Manager. He is 
a civil engineering major and 
currently serves as a Typeset­
ter. 
Dan Shinnick, a sophomore economics major at ND, will continue to serve as Director of the Observer Typesetting Service (OTS). He is from Excelsior, Minn., and served as OTS Director during the 1990-91 publishing year. 
Thomas Thomas, a junior, will serve as the Controller. He is an accounting major from Rock Springs, Wy., and this is his first Observer position. 
The above will join 1991-92 Editor-in-Chief-elect Kelley Tuthill, Managing Editor-elect Lisa Eaton and Business Man­ager-elect Gilbert Gomez, to form the 1991-92 General Board. They will assume their duties immediately after spring break. 
The Observer regrets the omissions. 


ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 ~ 
OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 6 Wednesday, March 6, 1991 
Kurds claim Iraqi city in North; anti­Saddam rebellion spreads in South 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP} ­Kurdish guerrillas claimed Tuesday to have seized five northern Iraqi towns, joining a growing rebellion against Sad­dam Hussein that has sent war­weary civilians fleeing to Iran and Kuwait. 
In southern Iraq, refugees streaming out of the country said Shiite Muslims and muti­nous soldiers controlled two Iraqi cities and fighting contin­ued in several more. 
"Young people were march­ing in the streets, tearing down posters of Saddam, and the soldiers would just shoot them," said Dafe, a Kuwaiti man who said he witnessed the fighting in Basra, Iraq's second­largest city. He asked that his last name not be published. 
Members of the Iraqi opposi­tion in Iran and Syria claimed that two other southern cities fell to rebels, who apparently sense that Saddam is vulnera­ble after the crushing defeat his army suffered in the Gulf War. 
In Washington, Rear Adm. Mike McConnell, director of in­telligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said there were indica­tions of civil unrest in about 12 Iraqi cities south of Baghdad. 
He said he believed Saddam would be able to quell the un­rest in the short run, but "may be sowing the seeds of hts own destruction." 
In less than a week, civil un­rest has expanded into a full­blown rebellion and spread north from Basra, a southern port city, to Erbil, about 80 miles south of the Turkish frontier. 
"Erbil has been liberated," Jalal Talabani, leader of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, declared in Damascus, Syria. 
He said Kurdish guerrillas took control of the provincial capital of 900,000 early Tues­day, and that fighting had ex­ploded throughout the northern mountains of Kurdistan. 
The smaller towns of Salah al-Dine, Khabat, Daratow and Eskiklik were also in guerrilla hands, Talabani claimed. 
Talabani said anti-Saddam demonstrations broke out Sun­day in Tikrit, Saddam's home­town. 
There was no way to inde­pendently verify the opposition groups' claims. 
Iran supported anti-Saddam Iraqi Shiites and the Kurds during its 1980-88 war with Iraq. But it was not possible to 
~.' 1111
To"ch•l~
Give to the United Way . 
.... 

determine whether Tehran was involved in the turmoil, which threatens to tear Iraq apart. 
Iran has in the past sought to establish an Islamic republic in Iraq. The Kurds have battled for autonomy for decades. 
Talabani said "tens of thou­sands" of Kurdish guerrillas were confronting a government force of about 60,000 in the north. 
U.S. military sources said two Iraqi mechanized brigades have been recalled to Baghdad to protect Saddam, including one from the north. About 7,000 Iraqi soldiers have been rede­ployed closer to the capital, they said. 
At Safwan, on the Iraq­Kuwait border, refugees said they had fled Basra, 30 miles away, to escape fierce fighting between Saddam's Republican Guard soldiers and thousands of demonstrators who had taken to the streets the past four days. 
Several young Iraqi men who declined to give their names said demonstrators took the town of Suq ash-Shuyukh after battles with soldiers. They said they had learned this while 
-passing through the town a day earlier, but they did not know the name of the group in con­trol. Refugees at the border post 
Monday said demonstrators controlled Nasiriyah. Those refugees reported uprisings in several cities, including Suq ash-Shuyukh. They said the rebels were Shiite Muslims de­manding an Islamic republic in Iraq. 
The south is largely populated by Shiite Muslims, who form about 55 percent of Iraq's 17 million people. Saddam and his ruling elite are from the mi­nority Sunni sect, and much of the recent opposition has come from Shiites. 
Although Baghdad has ac­cused the allies of aiding the rebels, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Tuesday the United States did not intend to become involved in Iraq's in­ternal affairs. President Bush has repeatedly said he would welcome a change in Iraq's leadership. 
Kurdish sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that as unrest has spread throughout the northern province of Kurdistan, large numbers of soldiers, disen­chanted with Saddam after the war over Kuwait, have switched sides. 
Military units in other regions also appear to be reorganizing and choosing sides, U.S. mili­tary sources in Riyadh said. 


How to start your lawcareer 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top Ja;N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
flll1 
!KAPLAN 
DON'T COMPETE WITH 
AKAPLANSTUDENT-BEONE 
1711 E. SOOTH B£N) AVE. SOOTH EI£N), IN 46637 219/272-4135 

6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 
GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE COURSES DAY and EVENING CLASSES 

Daily Specials 


THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-3a.m. 


Wednesday, May 29 to Wednesday, June 26 
SESSION ll 
Friday, June 28 to Tuesday, July 30 

CONTINUOUS 
REGISTRATION until the day before each session begins. REGISTER NOW! 
EVENING SESSION 
Wednesday, May 29 to Tuesday, July 30 
For summer Bulletin, write: SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE Or, if you prefer, call: 
(215)645-4320 

1VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY-Summer Sessions Office Villanova, PA 19085I Please mail me acurrent Summer Bulletin. 
II 
Name ---------------------­1 Address 
I 
1 City/State/Zip 
~------------------~ 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 6, 1991 page 7 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .•.••••••••••••Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJonty of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

~ 
.( 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Arafat's actions fuse PLO with Hussein's fascist cause 
Dear Editor: 
I want to thank my colleague Patrick Gaffney (The Observer. Feb. 25) for responding in detail to my previous lettHr, and I wish to respond to his arguments. Contrary to what c;amwy said, Professor Talhami did not "emphatically c:onrh~mn" Saddam Hussein's "disregard for international law" wlwn she specifically dnnied that tlw Scud missile attaeks targeted at lsranli dtiznns were terrorist. Nor dons Gaffney "emphatically condemn" llussein, when he rhoos1~s to ignore the other re­marks of Talhami's which I singled out, and the obdurate fact that Yassir Arafat's Fatah faction of thP PLO was launch­moderates while utterly undermining Palestinian cred­I ibility. I know that the position • I advocated by Gaffney is guided 

I 
by high ideals, but in my admit­tedly fallible opinion they have 1 blinded him to the stark reali­ties of the situation. 
Where some of Gaffney's ide­als and mine may agretl, I sus­pect. is that the United States bungled its way into the war through the Heagan/Bush Administration's universal "cult of guns" foreign policy in the 1980s and through oil depen­dency policies. We probably also agree that America must learn from this war-specifi­cally, that democratic ideals must take precedence over un­principled Realpolitik in foreign 

ing missiles toward Israel in the last rouple of weeks from I.nbanon and only stopped be­CilliSI! tlw missiles were ineffec­
tivl~. 
By (;affney's argument, the missilns represent the "maturation and democratiza­tion" of tlw PI.O and reveal its distance from Saddam llussein 's Scud missiles. By my argumnnt, the Palestinian mis­siles reprnsent that thn PLO was attmnpting to open up a second front for Saddam 1Iuss1~in's terror. 
That Yassir Arafat is the elected Chairman of the PI.O means about the same to me as that Saddam Hussein is the elected President of Iraq. Arafat is the man, as Gaffney knows, who in 1989 sent con­gratulations to Chairman Deng of China for his massacre of the democratic movement in Tienanmen Square. If Yassir Arafat had a democratic bone in his body, he would have im­mediately publicly condemned the assassination of his number two man, Abu lyad, and put his own life on the line by distanc­ing himself from President Hussein. 
Instead, he followed the fascist impulses of the Palestinian masses toward the strong man of Baghdad and launched his own missiles at Israel. Far from distancing himself from the people who murdered his number two man, Arafat and his PLO fused with Hussein's fascist cause. I call such a person a cowardly ter­rorist. not a democratic leader. And I call such impulses to em­brace a ruthless tyrant who surrounds himself with a totali­tarian cult of personality fas­cist. And I call the continued ignoring of these facts through scholarly rationalizing, whether intended or not, apologetics for fascism. 
Anyone can say anything anywhere in the world. But in some organizations and coun­tries, you will be killed for· do­ing so. Gaffney's analogy of the assassination of Abu lyad with John F. Kennedy is absurd, and even the more clearly political assassination of Robert F. Kennedy by the Palestinian Sirhan Sirhan because of his position on the Israeli-Arab problem would be irrelevant. The PLO has a history of not tolerating dissent. The contin­ued splintering of the PLO into factions such as Abu Nidal's terrorist group, speaks against pluralism. 
One Palestinian-American professor, Nabeel Abraham, said it straight when he said, "To me when I look at the Arab world, I see societies which have in a sense, forsaken tolerance. pluralism, and democracy. In the U.S., even though there is this jingoism that's all over the place in a flood, you still hear people say others have a right to a differ­ent opinion." (New York Times, Feb. 20, 1991). Professor's Abraham's outlook, which in­cludes the crucial condition of self-criticism, is the one that will bring Palestinians, other Arabs, and Israelis to peace. Gaffney's one-sidedness in the name of the PLO and of ab­stract procedural justice, in my opinion, leads nowhere. 
Gaffney, like Professor Talhami (and unlike Kelly Reuba of Amnesty International), diverts attention away from the Kuwaiti predicament and the threats posed by the Iraqi powers of mass destruction by claiming that the Palestinian-Israeli question is somehow relevant to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait or to the current war. This is ex­actly the propaganda put forth by Baghdad. 
Similarly, his scholarly history at the teach-in made it appear that when Hussein invades for oil to the Southeast (as he did in Iran) it is for greed, while when, economically devastated by that war, he then invades to the Southwest, in Kuwait, it is influenced by historical reasons. Hussein invaded Kuwait out of murderous, imperialistic greed, not because of history and certainly not to help the Palestinian people. The Palestinian-Hussein alliance has struck a blow to Arab policy as at home, and a strong energy policy of alternative Bnergies be developed. 
Perhaps Gaffney and I also agree that these things will not likely come to pass: witness the current Texas oilman!Sununu nuclear reactor fantasy policy proposals from the Bush Administration. That is why. although having protested American military policies from the Vietnam war to Panama (which I believe was a brutal attempt to retrieve Noriega's files on the "cocaine for con­tras" policy directed from George Bush's Vice-President's office), and despite strongly supporting this war. I realize that I may be back to the picket lines for the next war. It is also why I feel that America is a na­tion waning quickly, and fear that the "new world order" may be even more sinister than the old American one. 
Eugene Rochberg-Halton Associate Professor Dept. of Sociology · Feb.25, 1991 

OOONESBURY 
UH...IF IT'S AU OKAY, SPORT. 7HB54ME7D PIC/<. A CARD, YOU, MAN, I 
ANY CARl?/ (}()N'T N/:.&.PA TtJU'Rb 60/NG MORAt/5 OFF/­TOWV& CERJUST / THIS.' NOW. 
\ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
HeY, NO PROB! I 60T A AJU. 
NO, NQ 7H05C GUY'S/
CA5E.J..OAD 7VD4Y ANYWAY. 
rrs OKAY.' AlWAYS WITH
tf/B'V£3 81.313N 71<CATIN6 A toTOF NAVY CA'3UtJ.W8S YeAH, TH& (5(X){)­F!<OM 7Ht3 /11!Nt3 !3'XPL.O-TAI<& YOUR NATUR&l? 
/ 5/QVS., TIM& 1 / BARBS! 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'We have no weapons, 
except patience and 
sufferance, and talk about 
tomorrow.' 

• Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, March 6, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
LULAC officers respond to-Peralez's anti-SUFR opinions 
Dear Editor: 
As officers of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) at Notre Dame, we would like to rebut certain aspects of Mr. Peralez's article (The Observer, Feb. 15) regarding African American­Hispanic relations. 
First, Mr. Peralez has the au­dacity to continuously claim being the "founder" of LULAC at Notre Dame, and is even more so audacious in suggest­ing that he speaks for the Hispanics on this campus. · 
Mr. Peralez, though he sug­gested the idea of LULAC and did some of the ground work, did not actually follow through in securing funds for LULAC and is not a spokesperson for the League. 
His claim that SUFR is an African American movement, dragging Hispanics along, is absurd. No one is forced to be a part of SUFR; and as organi­zations LULAC, Black Cultural Arts Council, Hispanic American Organization (HAO) and other ethnic support groups do not support SUFR as a whole, but rather do so as in­dividuals. The very fact that not as many Hispanic Americans at Notre Dame are actively in­volved with SUFR does not mean that among us we do not support the aims of this group. 
Because there exists apathy within the Hispanic American community at Notre Dame, less than one-third of the "officially" counted Hispanic Americans at Notre Dame actively participate in the Hispanic American support groups: HAO and LULAC. Their percentage of active involvement in the African American support groups is much higher. However, though a large degree of apathy exists in the Hispanic American community (and to a smaller degree in the African American ~ommunity), apathy is not synonymous with disap­proval. 
In his article, Mr. Peralez claims that African Americans (the reason he singled out this group is beyond us) blame their academic failures on a system of oppression rather than on their lack of initiative and qualifications. Though some Ethnic American students do lack initiative with their schoolwork, there are also European Americans who also lack initiative. In fact, the graduation rate of African American (and other Ethnic American) students here is ap­proximately 7 5%, which is much higher than most other universities, but because of problems with financial aid, the environment at Notre Dame, etc., this figure could be higher. Thus, to make a sweeping gen­eralization that African Americans lack initiative (along with a statement that they are unqualified to attend Notre Dame) is unwarranted. 

Mr. Peralez also contends that hiring more African American faculty would compromise Notre Dame's standards. However, few would argue that hiring a more representative group of faculty from different cultural backgrounds, including African Americans would enhance Notre Dame's academic reputation and diver­sity. In addition, there does ex­ist a substantial pool of quali­fied Ethnic American Ph. D.s, and because they are in de­mand, the University should make a stronger effort to bring them here. Thus, Mr. Peralez is obviously misinformed on this matter. 
Furthermore, the suggestion that a multicultural center would serve as a "party space" is ludicrous. A multicultural center would serve the purpose of showing that there is a cross­cultural existence at Notre Dame and would also expose the students to cultural diversity. Ideally, the center would have offices for the vari­

ous ethnic clubs. and the Office SUFR), we do not feel he should of Minority Affairs, exhibit be thought of as a spokesper­space, a library with "our" his­son for Hispanics on campus. tories from our perspectives, congregational space, class­Manuel A. Espino, President rooms (so as to insure interac­John A. Rodarte, Vice­tion among cultures), an audi­President torium to host speakers and Veronica A. Guzman, lounge space. Secretary 
Though we respect Mr. Beatriz Cruz, Treasurer Peralez's right to have a dis­League of United Latin senting view (though we feel he American Citizens should do more research on Feb.25, 1991 
Criticism of SUFR does not reflect the views of all Hispanics 
Dear Editor: 
As members of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) and the Hispanic American Organization (HAO) at Notre Dame, we feel it is our duty to dispel the notion that Mr. Paul Peralez speaks for Hispanics. Though he proposed the idea of starting the League, he did not follow through in its coming to fruition. Contrary to that which is suggested in his article, LULAC at Notre Dame is as much Mr. Peralez's as the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Hispanic students at Notre Dame, other than Mr. Peralez, did the necessary work in the establishment of LULAC on this campus. Mr. Peralez's antagonisms and derogatory statements are not welcomed by the League, nor HAO, nor by other Hispanic Americans on campus. 
Dear Editor: 
In Jeffrey D. Long's letter to the Editor (The Observer, Feb. 19), he talks about the war in the Persian Gulf and how peace can be attained. Mr. Long tells us of our options in the Gulf; either we reach a peaceful settlement through political means or through the use of military force. However, Mr. Long gives us a third option-peace within oneself. He claims that peace obtained through political and military means is a false peace, and that peace can not exist in this way. 
If memory serves us correctly, Mr. Peralez, while taking cheap shots at the great Civil Rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., used to have a poster of this national hero on his door. At one time, Mr. Peralez appeared to be sympathetic to the plight of African Americans. This recent article is further evidence of his inconsistent and unstable views. 
Although Mr. Peralez has a right to his own personal be­liefs, the opinions voiced in his article are void of rational ob­jectivity and of any attempts to create a genuinely thoughtful argument, notwithstanding his commanding grasp of vocabu­lary, grammar and rhetorical strategy. 
Though it pains us to chastise another "Hispanic," we feel that Mr. Peralez knows very little about what it means to be Hispanic, and we do not feel 
Mr. Long tells us that meditation is the key to world peace. He claims that the way to obtain world peace is through inner peace. The remainder of the article is spent describing different meditation techniques. 
Mr. Long uses reliable sources such as former President Dwight Eisenhower. Unfortunately, Mr. Long does not explain his views of world peace. His argument relies on his religious beliefs. This is where his argument does not work. He is talking about peace in the Gulf where the majority of that he is qualified to speak on our behalf. Paul Peralez can only speak for Paul Peralez. It should be acknowledged that his opinions are his own indi­vidual sentiments (hatred in­cluded) concerning Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the African American community at large. 
His views in no way reflect the views of the Notre Dame Hispanic community. In addi­
. tion, Paul Peralez has yet to at­tend a meeting of Students United for Respect; and has made no serious, meaningful effort to learn about the group and its motives. Although the language with which Mr. Peralez voices his opinions is eloquent and seems intelligent, the contents of his remarks are presumptuous perversions of logic, grounded in misconcep­tions and ignorance (if not baselessness). bordering on slander. 
the population is Muslim; however, his suggestion is to use Christian beliefs. Mr. Long's theory does not even work in a country such as the United States, where religious beliefs differ. This is a very nice opinion, however it is a per­sonal one that can not appro­priately be placed on society as a whole. Therefore, Mr. Long's opinion is inappropriate for world peace. 
Cullen Hegarty Morrissey Hall 
Feb.20,1991 

Mr. Peralez is mistaken in la­beling SUFR as an African American group with solely African American aims (though it has more African American constituents than any other of the Ethnic American groups on campus). Admittedly, there is much apathy among Hispanic Americans in terms of involve­ment in social and political or­ganizations. 
Only one-third of Notre Dame's Hispanic students, the largest Ethnic American group on campus, actively participate in the main Hispanic support groups: LULAC and HAO. Nonetheless, in addition to participation by other traditionally underrepresented Ethnic American students on campus, a respectable number of Hispanic students are actively involved in the SUFR coalition. Mr. Peralez, we assume for personal reasons, has chosen voluntarily not to JO!ll this coalition. Furthermore, Mr. Peralez's involvement in HAO is non-existent, and his involvement in LULAC after positing the idea of a campus chapter, has been minute, at best. 
Essentially, Mr. Peralez has produced an elaborate and well-written article which lacks in proper knowledge of self, of Hispanic and African American culture, and Students United for Respect. It is a tribute to Mr. Peralez's writing skills and command of diction that such preposterous nonsense and at­tempts to attract attention ac­tually give the impression of being intelligible. 
Jose Villa Pedro Villegas, Jr. League of United American Citizens Hispanic American 

Prejudice overshadows argument against thieves 
Dear Editor: 
In her letter to the editor (The Observer, Feb. 18). Ms. DeLorenzo tries to appeal to our values when making her argument against a group of people who stole her American flag. She begins the letter by alienating her audience, insult­ing students whom she does not know as having "the genetic make-up of pond scum." 
This phrasing shows a lack of control and fact, and one will likely infer that this writing will reveal a surplus of slants favor­ing her emotions and a lack of concrete evidence. These af­fronts continue through her use of such words as "spineless cretins" and "cowardice." 
The fact that the perpetrators were men seems very im­portant to her, as well. The anger which she expresses not only against those who took the flag, but also in her emphasis that the thiefs were "guys" im­plies some prejudice that is re­
ally irrelevant to her problem, 
but which she feels must be 
voiced. Such prejudice clouds 
her argument and forces one to 
consider how many motives 
were involved in writing this 
letter. 
DeLorenzo also assumes that 
these people who stole her flag 
have "some sort of warped 
political view" and show disre­
spect for the troops in the 
Middle East through this theft. 
This non sequitur is succeeded 
by another in her conclusion: 
that this pilferage represents 
"stupidity" which might forbid 
her to hold the same posture 
for the troops in the Gulf. 
This personal vendetta, in ef­
fect, shifts some of the negative 
stmtiments of the reader away 
from the crime and onto the 
author and her inordinate 
description of her problem.
. 
Mark Engel Grace Hall 
Feb.21,1991 


The 1990-91 acadllmic year was 
designated the Yel).r of Women at Notre 
Dame by Fr. Edward Malloy. The 
committee appointed to develop a 
schedule ani! coordinate activiles 
durln~t the year established four goals:: 

•Spotlight Wl/!!len's accompllsliments
In a variety of nelds. 
•Focus 
on res9arch, scholarship and topics of spe~iallnterest to women. 

•Improve 
relations betw01m male and 

f11malo studnnts on the eampus. 

•Address 
asfects of the ND 


environment hat could be more 
inclusive and supportive of wom~>n. 


The Year 9f Women provides 11n 
opportunity for the membQrs of the 
Notre Dame community to share their 
viewpoints, knowledl{e and 
experiences to enrich our 
uniierstanding of the evolving role of 
women in socrety. 
In this insert. sponsored by Year of 
Women and the College of lluslness 
Administration, members of the 
§Indent body examine lss~es at the 
forefront of our social 11genda and Dr. 
J. Massyngbaerde Ford and Sister M. 
Georgia Costin remind us of the long
tradifion of women at Notre Dame. 

A special advertising supplement to The Obsever March 6, 1991 

Technical fields often inhospitable to women 
By Chris Cooney pany in Chicago, Flusche is one of just three women, a "definite minority." When she started 
Most people don't associate 
working there this year, Flusche engineers with aquariums. was treated differently than the 
But, female engineers insist, new male employees and felt the "Fishbowl Syndrome" defi­she had to prove herself. nitely affects women who enter "There was no blatant dis­this traditionally male-domi­crimination, mostly wary looks nated field. and stares," says Flusche. "But I 
"I sometimes get weird looks think that was partly because I when I tell people what my ma­was new and partly because I jor is," says Nancy Greene, who was a female." Is one of seven women in a se­In her training, Flusche ex­nior class of 7 8 mechanical plains, the men were reluctant engineers. "Sometimes I wish I to teach her some of the more had more female companions. physical tasks, such as going Any minority is going to feel Kathie Newman into manholes. alone at times." "It didn't bother me because
unconsciously and make them
Greene's feelings are only part they were up front about it,"
gradually lose interest in the
of the Fishbowl Syndrome, says Flusche. "They eventually 
field.

according to Dr. Kathie New­let me do some of the physical
"By definition, these mi­
man, a physics professor and work." She added that she
croinequities happen so often
member of the Year of Women gained respect by asking intelli­
we don't realize what's happen­
steering committee. Newman gent questions, not relying on
ing," says Newman. Other mi­
explains that women in math, the men and going out on jobs
croinequities might include
science or engineering careers by herself.
speaking to women on a less in­
often feel isolated, with every­Janet Herold, a senior Math
tellectual level, calling on male
body watching them as if they and English major, had a simi­
students more often, asking
are in a fishbowl. In addition, lar experience two summers 
men the more difficult questions 
the actions of anyone inside the ago at Lockwood Green in At­
and subtly implying that the
fishbowl are magnified for those lanta. As the only woman em­
women must prove themselves. 
outside the bowl, causing them ployee who wasn't clerical help, 
"Each seems so insignificant, While the number of female faculty like marketing instructor Ann Root
to come under closer scrutiny. Herold says that at times it was 
we say 'why worry about it,' but (above) has improved, they remain underrepresented in technical fields.
The Fishbowl Syndrome is just difficult to be taken seriously. 
they add up," says Newman.
one of many "microinequities" "You have to prove yourself, the national percentage of faced by women in these fields. 
"We need to look at how many 
women with doctorates in the Brown bag lunches have ad­
Newman feels challenge women but that's not necessarily be­
inequities exist in our en­subject. And, according to dressed many of the issues that
who pursue technical cause of sex," Herold says. 
vironment and how they make Newman, the department has affect women scientists. In ad­
professions. Although the Newman feels Notre Dame 
number of women entering you feel overall." does a better job than most been very receptive to examin-dition, Newman says, the vari­these fields is increasing, and Pam Flusche graduated last universities to make women feel ing and discussing the problems ous departments have invited 
year from Notre Dame with a 
female scientists face. prominent female scientists to
blatant discrimination is dimin­comfortable in the science and
degree in electrical engineering. Newman says that the Year of speak at Notre Dame this year. 
ishing, Newman says these math fields. Four of Notre
Out of 60 engineers at Com­the Women has increased the "That raises the awareness
"minor" inequalities may cause Dame's 36 physics professors
monwealth Edison Power Com-
women to doubt their abilities are female, which almost equals awareness of the problems see Faculty/page 2 
On-site day care can benefit working parents 
By Robyn Simmons Day School r-------------------------, rate, we have our year. opened its doors Award-winning South Bend day own separate "Together, Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's provide 5% of our

On weekdays Sue Hardey, a in 1970 (it is the care center to close on Apr!'I 1 identity from
oldest licensed Notre Dame and operational budget," says Kosik,
special education teacher at 
e m P I o Y e r -On Feb. 9, Excel/Nyloncraft announced that its nationally Saint Mary's," "Had we not had those subsidies Buffalo Grove High School in s P o n s o r e d recognized day care center would close its doors on April 1, explains Terry early on for ten years, we wouldBuffalo Grove, IL, drops otT her program in 1991. This facility provides day care for 150 to 170 children Kosik, director of not have grown and developed3-year-old daughter Meghan at 
Illinois) women in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. ECDC. the way we have now. 
Little Bison Preschool and goes were just be-The primary reason for the decision is decreasing employee Approximately "Presently Notre Dame pro­directly to her office-which is ginning to make use and increasing costs. In July, 1988, 45 percent of the 78% to 80% of the vides graduate student familiesright down the hall. 
their mark in the enrollment at Nyloncraft was employee-related. Currently families served by with financial need a tuition "The number one (benefit) is 
work force. that figure has dropped to about 15 percent. ECDC are Notre remission scholarship for their 
my peace of mind," says 
Today what The center, 616 W. McKinley Ave., was nationally Dame affiliated, children to attend ECDC," saysHardey, "knowing that I'm in traditionally has recognized in 1988 by the Congressional Caucus on Women's while 18% to 20% Kosik. "However this population the same building as my kids, been called a Issues. The center received the Pioneer Award and is one of of the families are is growing and there is an and knowing at any time I could woman's issue the model programs being studied by the federal affiliated with increased need for scholarship
stop in and see what's going 
has become a government for the Capitol Hill Child Development Center. Saint Mary's money."on." family issue. L--------------------------l College. Only The cost of placing a child in 
The Little Bison program 
Both female and male to be a part of Notre Dame's about 1/3 of the children attend ECDC is not inexpensive. Tu­began as a preschool in 1973 employees are starting to ask mission to have more day care ECDC on an ali-day basis. ition for one child on a full-time when the high school opened, their employers to address their than it already has," Peterson "Campus programs have a lot of schedule Monday through Fri­
and ten years ago it was 
child care needs. remarks; "ECDC doesn't go families with flexibility," says day is $68 per week. High tu­
reorganized into a day care 
Jim Peterson, an assistant young enough.. .I personally Kosik. "A large population of ition costs are a way to insure 
center. The facility can hold a our families are faculty and
professor of communications would like to have it closer to that staff turnover is minimal. 
maximum of 16 children 
and theater at the University of Notre Dame." students, both undergraduate According to Kosik, the aver­between the ages of two and 
Notre Dame takes his three-Currently, ECDC is the only and graduate. "Parent-paid age wage for a child care 
five at one time. 

year-old daughter Lauren to the form of on-site day care avail-tuition accounts for 86% of worker is $5.35 an hour na­
As the number of women in 
Early Childhood Development able to the Notre Dame and ECDC's yearly operational tionwide, with a staff turnover the labor force is expanding, the Center at Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's community. ECDC budget. The remaining 14% rate of more than 50% per year.
need for on-site day care is also 
on Tuesday and Thursday started in 1971 as the Happy comes from private donations Such a high turnover rate can growing. But the number of 
afternoons. Peterson and his Day Care Center. In 1974 it was and the interest on investments. have a negative effect on the companies which otTer any type wife Susan have to hire a reorganized to be a professional In the early 1980s, Notre Dame children, since they are con­
of child care assistance is still 
woman to watch their 15 month college lab school which offered provided ECDC with the tinually adjusting to new care­
extremely low. One of the 
old daughter Anna since ECDC child care to faculty from both Freimann Fund, a $50,000 takers. 
challenges parents must face in 
is only licensed to accept schools and on-site practicum endowment. The interest on "(At ECDC) we can offer the 1990s is how to convince children between the ages of experience for Notre Dame and that endowment accounts for salaries to our teachers which their employers to address their three and nine. Saint Mary's students. 1% of ECDC's operational are higher than what would be child care needs. 
"I think that it certainly ought "We are a not-for-profit or-budget for a nine month school 
When the Lawrence Armour see Day care/page 3 
ganization, (and) we are sepa­
~----~--------------------------------------------------~--~ 
Tf-f 
~YEARO: 
'\bMEN)

Page 2 A special advertising supplement to The Obsever 
Women faculty have made their mark at NO 
Sight unseen. No search committee formed. No inter­views conducted. Notre Dame moved cautiously to appoint her first two women to the Faculty in 1965: they knew the women's professional qualifica­tions and publication records and this would suffice for the time being. 
It was the responsibility of these women to show how they could contribute to the aca­demic community. Dr. Suzanne Kelly with her doctorate in the History of Science arrived in August 1965 and Dr. J. Massyngbaerde Ford with her PhD in New Testament Studies on September 16th. Their way had been prepared by Mrs. Elizabeth Lynch, Director of Special Education, who was the first woman to teach in the University but was not actually appointed to the Faculty. 
Ante-dating Lynch, Kelly and M-Ford were, however, the women on the Library Staff and the secretaries, both of whom replaced religious brothers who served in those capacities in the early days. 
Just one year prior to the women joining the Faculty was the appointment of Dr. Alberta Ross as Professional Specialist in Radiation Chemistry. 
Dr. Kelly taught in the General Program, now the Program of Liberal Studies. She left Notre Dame for a time but returned in an administrative position, the Director of the Religious Leaders Program. She is also responsible for the ministry students and teaches in the 

Josephine Massyngbaerde Ford, the first tenured woman professor at Notre Dame, celebrated her 25-year anniversary with NO in Sept. 1990. 
Core Course. deliver her paper) and the 
Dr. Kelly and Dr. Massyng-Chicago Society of Biblical Re­baerde Ford, were well and search. cordially received and the fac-She also gave numerous con­ulty seemed content. Kelly did ferences throughout North publish but her first priority America before many more was top class undergraduate women became qualified in the­teaching with an emphasis on ology. M-Ford also founded the experience and width of educa-departmental faculty colloquia tion. independent from the phi-
Dr. M-Ford proceeded to the losophy department and openly professional Biblical societies supported women deacons and and was the first woman to read more covertly the ordination of at the Catholic Biblical Society women. (1966) (and thereby hangs a Both Dr. Kelly and Dr. M-Ford tale), the Society of Biblical played key roles in the liturgy Literature (the editor, Dr. Mor-on campus. It was M-Ford who ton Enslin, expected an African first broached the idea of priest to go to the lectern when women and handicapped lectors he called on "Father Ford" to in Sacred Heart church. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Lynch was the first woman to enjoy this privilege. 
Since then liturgical roles for women have increased and multiplied. The 1970's were the times of creative liturgies and a great contribution was made by the music professor Dr. Sue Seid-Martin who was choir­mistress for about six years. 
Presently, a woman, Dr. Eleanor Bernstein, holds the position of Director of the centre for Pastoral Liturgy and is responsible for the annual li­turgical conference in June that has been at the center of litur­gical renewal for many years. 
The number of faculty women gradually increased. There seem to be no University records or figures until 1980. But the first women included Dr. Dolores Frese, who is now an international scholar in Chaucer studies; Dr. Alberta Ross; Dr. Deidre LaPorte in the general program; Dr. Kathleen Weigert and Dr. Katherine Tillman (both of whom moved to administrative positions). Dr. Mary Lynn Broe, who now has a Chair in English and Women's Studies at Grinnell College, Uni­versity of Iowa, Dr. Maben Hering and Dr. Madonna Kolbenschlaig. 
These women formed a volun­tary committee called "Committee W" which met in the basement of the library in the lunch hour. Committee W tried to improve the situation for women at large from the domestic staff to faculty mem­bers and, interestingly enough discussed nearly all the points which were later deliberated in the Faculty Senate Committee on the Status of Women ably led by Dr. Ellen Weaver and Dr. Kathleen Biddick. 
This report was published in 1989 and may have far reach­ing effects. for example, with regard to creating "an excellent environment for women to study, teach and do research"; to forming a standing commit­tee on the status of women; to supporting facilities for gender studies and assisting in the re­cruitment and promotion of women. 
However, we must not forget the tremendous contribution made by the religious, mostly women, who attended Summer School at Notre Dame. 
Perhaps most of all by their courage, devotion and in­tellectual prowess, they were the greatest influence on Notre Dame to engage women faculty. 
The quality and number of our women faculty are increasing. Records of full-time teaching faculty from 1980-88 show an increase from 35 women: 129 men to 63 women: 519 men in those years. 
There is still great room for improvement, for example, there were only 9 women full professor to 220 men in 1988 and, according to the Faculty Senate research on the status of women we have not reached the standard of universities like Princeton, Brown, Indiana (Bloomington), Michigan State, Duke, John Hopkins, Southern California and Fordham. 
J.M. Ford has been a professor in the theology department for 25 years and was the first tenured woman at Notre Dame. 

best for the job." encouraging, Newman says the jobs are." good they really are. They may While Flusche says that most more efforts are needed to con­And while more women are need special encouragement to
Faculty 
of her male peers expected the vince females to pursue techni­joining these majors, overall have confidence in their abili­
continued from page 1 
women to be more heavily re­cal careers. females are still a minority. ties." that females are doing quality cruited, and never seemed "Is there a perception that you Newman says that women are work on scientific subjects," upset about it, Linda-Margaret can't have children and be a "Women may feel it's not encouraged to enter these Newman said. "Plus, it's a sign Hunt, Assistant Chair of the scientist?" asks Newman, the not appropriate to go fields even when tests show of changing times." Biological Sciences department, mother of two. "Or is there an they've got the needed skills. 
The College of Engineering is feels that some men may resent idea that you should be taken into math fields," says "lt's my impression that making similar efforts to com­it. less seriously because you're a women are more easily turned
Knight. "These are
bat gender discrimination. Dr. ''I'm sure it does bother the woman? It's taboo to talk about off by physics then men," New­Kimberly Gray points to her men. It's reverse discrimina­these things, but they do exist." societal problems that man says. "Women aren't pay­hiring in the fall of 1989 as one tion," says Hunt. "They can't Newman, Gray and Hunt feel ing attention to scores that say way the school is trying to at­help it if they were born male." their male colleagues at Notre have to be overcome. they're good in math." tract women to engineering. But, she adds, quotas for Dame have done a good job to Greene notes that while many
While almost half of Notre
"There is an enormous coil­women and other minorities are help them feel included. of her male classmates can ap­
Dame's biology and biochem­
cern here for making programs needed to make changes. Hunt "We found we had more in ply a theory to working on a car,
istry majors are women, there
attractive to nontraditional stresses that no company would common than we didn't," says for example, she has never had
are only three female physics
students," says Gray, the first hire an unqualified woman. Gray, including a dedication to that experience. In contrast,
majors (out of 35) at the school. 
female engineering professor "If there's an equally qualified research, developing curricu­Greene recalls her roommate
The difference is especially
hired at Notre Dame and one of male and female, they're going lum, concern for students and last summer who was raised in
n!JtiCeable in the College of
only two currently holding posi­to take the female because of opinions of departmental poli­a family of boys and was very
Engineering. Women generally
tions in the college. the emphasis on Affirmative tics. used to mechanical work. 
make up between 15 and 20
"You cannot be intimidated," Action hiring," says Hunt. "But Dr. Julia Knight, who was the "It depends on what you grew 
percent of the classes, but in
says Gray, adding that until so­if a woman isn't qualified, shew only woman in the math de­up with," says Greene. 
real numbers this percentage
ciety incorporates the nonsexist The past decade has brought partment when she was hired in The most important qualifi­
can mean that a woman is one
policies into individual .practice, more women into the math, 1977, says she never felt any cation for entering math,
of just five to ten female majors 
women will always face science and engineering fields. chauvinism. science and engineering is a
in her year. And in individual
inequalities. Although just eight percent of "What we were talking about love for the subject, says
classes, the number of women
Gray says that Notre Dame all undergraduates studying was always math-related and Greene. While there have been
may be only one or two.
purposely tried to find a woman had nothing to do with gender," few women to "open the way"
The numbers are not small
to fill the open engineering "No one wants to be says Knight. "I never felt any she claims she did not choose
because of a lack of talent, says 
position. Because many different." her major "to be a female in
hired for a position Newman. She counters the
employers want to hire pro­Instead, Knight says, particu­engineering."
claim that women are less
tected minorities, women may just because of lar problems women face may suited to science careers be­
find jobs in math, science or be those common to all women, "You want to be in it on the
cause of some biological ten­
engineering more easily than chromosomal such as how to balance a job basis of what you can do ­
dency by pointing out that in
their male counterparts. with having a family. Greene where your talents and apti­
Argentina 50 percent of the
Flusche remembers that the makeup," says Gray, has noticed that some of her in­physicists are women. tudes lie," says Greene. "No one women engineers she knew re­terviewers have asked about is gung-ho 'I'm here to prove
"but because they're However, women may be at a
ceived more offers than their her plans to have children. Be­something.' It's what you like
disadvantage because society
male classmates and sometimes the best for the job." cause of the commitment re­and what you're good at." The
still tends to discourage them
were offered a little more quired by a career in these challenges math, science and
physics were women in 1973, from pursuing these studies. 
money. fields, Gray thinks women need engineering provide don't
by 1989 that percentage had "Women may feel it's not ap­
But these advantages can have an added determination to stick discriminate, says Flusche,
doubled. Similarly, in 1975, five propriate to go into math
a downside, Flusche and Gray with it. making an interest in the sub­
percent of all PhDs. in physics fields," says Knight. "These are
agree. "Succeeding requires a high jects imperative. 
were awarded to women, while societal problems that have to
"No one wants to be hired for level of dedication," says Gray.
in 1989 women earned eight be overcome.
a position just because of 
"It cuts into personal time. It "Going into this field, you have 
percent of them. "It may be that women need to 
chromosomal makeup," says takes commitment and ambi­
to like what you're doing or you

While the higher numbers are be told more than men how
Gray, "but because they're the tion. You have to move where won't be happy." 

A special advertising supplement to The Obsever 
Page 3 

Editor's note: With the support of the Year of Women Committee on Women. and the Faculty Senate, the Academic Council adopted at its February meeting a policy supporting the use of gender inclusive language at the University of Nolfl! Dame. This article examines the issue of gender­inrlusive language. 
By Eric Werge 
Thnir names were Kirk. Spock. McCoy, Sulu. They were a product of the sixties, a dnr.adn of experimentation and nxploration, where people sought to n~ach beyond individ­ual and societal limitations and experience new. hidden sensa­tions and emotions. The Star Ship Entnrprisn explornd the ul­tirnatn unknown of outnr space, going boldly where "no man has gone before." 
Twenty years later, Star Trek: thn Nnw Gnneration appeared as a product of the eighties. Th1~ original characters are gonn. but the premise is the same: exciting adventures in undiscovnred galaxins. Listen r.losnly to the opening, however, and you'll notice one difference. This nnw crew of explorers boldly goes to go whnre "no one has gonn before." 
In recnnt years, the call across the country for people to u~e gHndHr-inclusive language in thnir spe11ch and writing has grown stronger and more united. The movement began in the 1970s as blacks and women in particular struggled to gain tlwir idnntities as distinct groups within an American sodety dominated by white mains. 
Mall! dominance in society was for thn first time linked to the dominance of male images in tlw English language. Womnn bngan to demand changns in thn spoken and written words of daily life, and pnopln wnrn soon much more conscious of the words they used. 
In thn law '70s and early '80s, tlw call was for a stop to "sexist language." In I 982, by a vote of 
~~eX~p~e~e 
found in a typical child care eommunity center and nursery sdwol," Kosik explains. "We are able to hire professional teaehers with four year degrees and some with Mastnrs degrees and pay them with encourage­ment to stay." 
The ECDC program is success­ful, but several Notre Dame faculty members with young children would like to see an expanded program closer to Notre Dame's campus. Three years ago, Jacque Brogan, an associate professor of English at Notrn Dame, spoke with University president Rev. Ed­ward Malloy about setting up a day eare program at Notre Dame. 
"At that moment he was vnry encouragnd and he said that if the University determined that 22 to 5, the Notre Dame Department of Theology adopted a policy which called upon "faculty, staff. and stu­dents to avoid sex-exclusive and sex-discriminatory language." 
The switch to the term "gender-inclusive language" oc­curred in the mid-1980s, with the realization that people who fail to use inclusive language are not necessarily sexist. 
Eileen Kolman, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, de­fines inclusive language as "speaking and writing in such a way as to include all people re­gardless of gender or any other characteristics." She says that a particular area of difficulty in escaping male-oriented lan­guage involves the use of pro­nouns. 
Kolman believes that "it is no longer a fair assumption" to hold the traditional view that the word "man" is inclusive of all people. An essay entitled "Man as a False Generic"_ stud­ies show that broad definitions of man "tend to call up images of male people only, not female people or females and males together." 
Ellen Weaver, who teaches theology agrees, says that people associate the generic "man" with definite images of maleness. The word "mankind" is slowly being replaced by "humanity" while occupational terms such as fireman, mail­man, policeman, and chairman are slowly being phased out and replaced by fire fighter, mail carrier, police officer. and chair. 
Since 1980, phrases in the Mass which had seemed to ex­clude women have been altered to include women. In the words of the consecration, for in­stance, the Blood of Christ is no longer "shed for you and for all men" but "for you and for all." 
Kolman believes that definite strides are being made with the use of gender-inclusive lan­guage. She notes that many publishers and journals have policies rnquiring gender-inclu­sive language, and she believes that the official publications of Notre Dame have shown a much greater awareness in the 
it was a necessary and good idea that they would have a day care up and going next September, and it never hap­pened," says Brogan. 
The reason the Administration gave Brogan for not setting up an on-site day care facility was the prohibitively expensive in­surance costs. "I think Notre Dame has the money," Brogan says, "At a Catholic university that supposedly supports chil­dren, they should be a priority. 
Brogan and her husband Terry. a visiting assistant pro­fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies. alternate in taking their youngest child Evan, 6, to ECDC each morning. Although Brogan is happy with the ECDC program, she would prefer a day care center which is closer to her work place. 
Kosik also expresses an inter­est in working with the Univer­sity to expand its day care facil­ities. "We hope that there will language they use as well. 
The Year of Women has raised the conscious.ness of people at the university to these sensitive issues of language, but Kolman is still concerned with progress at the classroom level. She becomes frustrated when she sees female students consistently .use male-oriented language. 
"It would be an absolute shame," she says, "if any stu­dent leaves Notre Dame in 1991 without knowing that exclusive language is simply no longer acceptable." 
Weaver agrees that progress is being made in heightening people's awareness to the issue of inclusive language within the Notre Dame community. 
"It's gradually becoming part of the culture." she says. 
The quest for an official in­clusive-language policy at the university may soon be realized. A resolution proposed by the Faculty and Student Committee on the Status of Women at Notre Dame was discussed by the Faculty Senate on Feb. 5. 
The committee is headed by Sr. Kathleen Cannon, associate Provost and the resolution states, "it shall be the policy of the University of Notre Dame to use respectful and inclusive language in its official procla­mations and documents and to call upon faculty, staff, and students to adopt such usage in the conduct of their work and their social life both within and outside the Notre Dame Com­munity." 
Both Kolman and Weaver are optimistic that the resolution will soon be recognized as uni­versity policy. "Language not only expresses what we think but forms what we think," Kolman says. 
"It's part of our total con­sciousness. If there's a better way to do things, why not do it the right way?" 
Whether people agree that gender-inclusive language is the "right way" or not, it is certain that those strongly in favor of it are taking language to a place where "no one has gone before." 
be a dialogue... We have a model program," she says. "Should Notre Dame move into the area of institutionalizing a program that is either on-site or near the campus, we hope that it would be done in conjunction with this program." 
As today's college graduates enter the working world, the responsibility for seeking day care will not necessarily be limited to mothers. "Many of my colleagues are concerned and many of them are males, so I don't understand the lack of response," says Brogan. 
As more women enter the la­bor force, on-site day care, like health insurance and pension benefits, might soon determine which companies are most at­tractive to workers with fami­lies. "The pressure has to come from consciousness-raising and ethical and moral reasons." says Brogan. "As soon as it's perceived as a need, (businesses) will respond." 
By Sister Georgia Costin 
One of Father Sorin's first acts upon arriving at the pre­sent site of Notre Dame was to write back to France and ask for Sisters to come and help him develop a college. 
This was the beginning of 150 years of working together on the Notre Dame campus. Though Father Sorin had specified that at least some of the Sisters should be prepared to teach, the Sisters of the Holy Cross have never taught at Notre Dame. 
A "college" on the frontier in those days meant a school that took its students wherever they were in their education and tried to move them forward. Some of the "scholars" at Notre Dame were as young as eight. Someone was needed to wash and mend their clothes, nurse them when they got sick. and keep their living areas clean. 
These tasks were taken over by the first four Sisters to ar­rive in 1843. One of the Sisters also took charge of the farm animals. Later the Sisters replaced the Brothers of Holy Cross in the college kitchen. 
A year after their arrival, the Sisters opened a novitiate in Bertrand, Michigan, just over the state line. The local popu­lation assumed that the Sisters had come to teach, and sent their children to them. Within three years, the Sisters in Ber­trand had a "select" academy (a finishing school of somewhat more practical bent than the eastern variety), an orphanage with training for girls who would have to earn their own living, and a school for the deaf. 
The young Sisters being trained in the novitiate were seen as contributing primarily to the apostolate at Notre Dame. An early archivist wrote, " .. .if the necessity of looking to the novitiate and of obtaining from it some good for the College [N.D.] had not been so urgent, it would be hard to understand this first year in Bertrand, which was and will be for a long time to come, nothing more than a dead town." 
In 1855, Father Sorin bought the property at the present site of Saint Mary's, and the whole operation moved back to Indiana. The orphanage and school for the deaf were eventually phased out, and the academy began to grow into the present Saint Mary's Col­lege. The Sisters' teaching apostolate also grew as parochial schools were ac­cepted and new academies founded. 
The shift from domestic duties into teaching (and from the Civil War onward, nursing) left Notre Dame short of cooks, laundresses, and housekeepers. Father Sorin recruited the kind of worker he wanted in Europe, especially Germany. 
In 1873 he set up a separate novitiate for these Sisters, who, it was understood, would devote their entire lives to domestic service at Notre Dame. This system was in effect for almost twenty years. In 1890 Rome ordered the Notre Dame novitiate closed and the Sisters' services contracted for through Saint Mary's. 
It never seems to have oe­curred either to the priests or the Sisters of the Holy Cross that the Sisters might have served as faculty members at Notre Dame. As their teaching apostolate grew. the Sisters were kept busy staffing their own schools. 
At their institutional peak in the 1950s, the Sisters had four colleges for women in thP. United States (at Salt Lake City, Washington, D.C., and Boston, as well as at Saint Mary's) and one in Bangladesh. They continued to serve in the Notrfl Dame laundry. clothes room. and sacristy, and professional nursing services had been added in both the students' and the priests' infirmaries. 
The appreciation of the priests for the Sisters' services was expressed by Father Hesburgh when he wrote to Mother Kathryn Marie of his gratitude for "the Holy Cross Sisters who ... havo continued their unselfish and generous efforts to further the cause of Notre Dame.... Only God knows how many blessings they have brought to the University and its growth through their devoted lives and many prayers." 
Sisters still serve as ball directors and campus ministers. 
From the arrival of the first four Sisters in August 1843, there has not been a day when Notre Dame has not been re­ceiving the services of some Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Sister Georgia Costin is the editor of the Sesquiscenten· nial Publications of the Sisters ofthe Holy Cross. 


-
March 6, 1991 
A special advertising supplement to The Obsever 
McGraw juggles hoops, home 
By Sara Liebscher ents went through the stages of 
childbearing and child rearing 
One member of the Notre as though they were following a Dame women's basketball team script: doesn't care if the team wins or Most couples who married in loses, as long as he is fed and the 1940s and 1950s finished gets his diapers changed. having their 3.2 children by the 
Murphy McGraw was born on time they were in their late April 29, 1990, into a schedule twenties. of practices, meetings, game It is no secret that the times films, and travel. His mother is have changed, and the tradi­the team's head coach, Muffet tional notion of family has been McGraw. dramatically transformed. To­
Before the arrival of Murph, day, only 10 percent of families Muffet and her husband, Matt, in the United States consist of a 
\

were the McGraw family -a breadwinner father, home­two income, two car, Nikes, mi­maker mother, and two or more crowave, and VCR kind of fam­children (Catalyst, August 
I

ily. 1989). 
For years, their lives -have re­If prime time television is any volved around the _game of bas­indication of societal tendencies, ketball. In fact, framed on a then we need look only to the shelf in their family room and prevalence and popularity of most important problem faced her life are drastically different, becoming a reality. serving as a constant reminder such shows as thirtysomething, by women today is the tension her lifestyle choice is much the While there is no clear-cut, of the top priority in the house­The Cosby Show, and Roseanne between work and family (New same as Dr. Momont's. She is a black and white formula for hold is the announcement, "We to see that American viewers Perspectives Quarterly, Winter single parent who, ironically, child rearing in modern Amer­interrupt this marriage to bring identify with women balancing 1990). runs a day-care center out of ica, for the McGraw family, the you the basketball season." motherhood and career. But behind all the statistics her home, so that she can meet key element is mutual happi­
Yet, with Murph came new Conversely, television shows and studies, and living in the her financial needs without ness. "I think the primary ad­considerations. He brought to like Father Knows Best, Leave It midst of this daily tension, are having to let someone else raise vantage of working is that it their lifestyle more than 2 a.m. To Beaver, Happy Days, and real-life people for whom child her daughter. makes me happy. feedings, dirty diapers, and The Brady Bunch have become rearing has become a lifestyle "The most important benefit," And I think that anytime you sleepless nights. cultural artifacts, reminding us choice. For Dr. Sheila Momont, says 23-year-old Peggy, "is that are in a relationship with any­
He introduced into the Mc­of the way things used to be. If a physician, the wife of a physi­Deirdre can be at home, in her one -husband, baby -if you Graw household the dilemma Claire Huxtable had decided to cian, and mother of two chil­own highchair, her own bed, are happy, it's going to be a that confronts the modern send Rudy to a day-care center, dren, ages two years and 10 etc." Thus, this enables Peggy much better relationship." This American woman in her desire she would have had 10 times as months, having a place that her to spend a lot of so-called is not to suggest that Coach to be both Mom and money­many to choose from as June children can call home is her "quality time" with Deirdre. McGraw places her happiness maker. In a society that in­Cleaver ever had. biggest concern. "For me, quantity time is quality above that of her husband and creasingly demands that women Rudy would have been one of "I am adamant about not time. Just to be there, the son; quite the opposite, this play both roles, the question over two million American chil­taking them out of the house consistency and theroutine, and family is a team whose players remains, "who's raising the dren in day-care centers, while (into a day-care center)." says the constant figure there all the rely upon one another for their kids?" the Beaver would have been Dr. Momont, who works three time, not one during the day happiness. 
The answer is not as obvious one of only 141,000 (The days a week in the Gundersen and one at night, but the same A necessary ingredient to the as it used to be. According to Heritage Foundation's Issue Clinic, LaCrosse, Wisconsin. "I one-that to me is quality time." McGraw recipe for family suc­social historian Barbara Dafoe Bulletin, October 6, 1988). have a babysitter come into my Another aspect of this lifestyle cess, therefore, is Muffet being Whitehead (New Perspectives In fact, according to economist home on Mondays, Thursdays, choice of child rearing involves a working mother. "I want Quarterly, Winter 1990), only a Sylvia Ann Hewlett, of the 17 and Fridays. the extent to which the male Murphy to grow up knowing generation ago parents stood at million jobs created in the It is not easy to trust someone becomes responsible for what that it's OK for women to work. the center of society. United States during the 1980s, else with my most precious have traditionally been female I think it's good for him." 
First of all, there were lots of two-thirds were filled by possessions, but I feel the need duties. Although it is not a With the ever-increasing de­them; fully half of the nation's women, and the fastest growing to work part-time because of prevalent scenario yet, as the mands placed on women today, households in 1960 were com­segment of the work force is the mental and social stimula­number of women entering the Murphy will be one of an entire prised of one or more children now mothers with pre-school tion it gives me." work force continues to grow generation that thinks it's OK under 18. Moreover, parents children. For Peggy Weber, mother of (an expected 60 percent by the for women to both bake the looked alike -Dad worked and A 1989 New York Times poll three-year-old Deirdre, year 2000), "Mr. Mom" may no bread and bring home the ba­Mom stayed at home. And par-found that, consequently, the although the circumstances of longer be merely fiction. It is con. 
Tannen examines gender communication gap 
respond, "fine" and leave it at derstand. seek confrrmation and reenforce sation with one another, using explain yourself in a way your Deborah Tannen is a sociolin­intimacy, whereas boys use the same words, and then walk partner can accept.
that? Does it seem they just 
guist who offers revolutionary language to protect their away from the conversation Thus, Tannen presents a re­lecture, criticize, and never re­answers to those and other independence and negotiate with completely different inter­freshing, new approach to theveal anything significant? 
Gentlemen, do you have trou­questions that perplex women status in large-group activities. pretations. battle of the sexes: a peace ble with women? Do you feel and men in their attempts to Women and men carry these Deborah Tannen uses a light, treaty of understanding in a they nag and never get to the communicate with each other. manners into adult life, where clear style of prose to prove her shared language. By under­point? Do they poke incessantly Using stunning evidence from their relations become more theory. Using humor Tannen standing the other's conversa­with prying questions like, her own studies of children, intimate and complex. Conse­softens and personalizes her tional style, we can accept dif­"What are you thinking?" After adolescents, and adults Debo­quently, men approach life as generalities. She demonstrates ferences without blaming each 
rah Tannen shows that men and an individual in a hierarchical through colorful vignettes of other or ourselves.
making plans for an evening out do you feel exhausted, women live in different social order in which he is ei­everyday life the existence and Everyone should read this manipulated, and confused? worlds-even when under the ther one-up or one-down. development of "genderlects" honest, fascinating account. It If you haven't faced complete same roof. They grow up in Women, however, approach life (differences in language style will help you leap across the different cultures. as an individual in a network of and usage based on gender).
frustration in conversations giant communications gap be­
Muffet McGraw, Notre Dame women's basketball coach, talks with her team during a recent game. McGraw is one of many women who balance traditonal and nontraditional women's roles. 
Book Review: You Just Don't Understand: Women and Men in Conversation. 
By Deborah Tannen, Ph. D. 330 pages. William Morrow and Company, Inc. $18.95. 
Reviewed by Nicole Sugg 
Ladies, do you have trouble talking with men, either per­sonally or professionally? When you ask them a question like "How do you feel?", do they book as social science and makes it all the more interest­ing, relevant, and personal. You can apply her theories easily and frequently in modern life. 

1 p 
~ 
In a time of hostility over dis­cussions of gender, Tannen dif­
• 
?
• 
fuses the fire by suggesting both women and men should 
consider her original analysis of the sexes. Neither is asked to

o.ue? • 
learn to speak as the other, but rather to try to understand the nature and motivation of the other's speech and try to 

From childhood, girls and boys connections, searching for Tannen's reader immediately tween men and women and
with the opposite sex, you've been fortunate. If you have, you learn to speak and interact closeness and consensus. recognizes oneself in the work. open lines of communication must read Deborah Tannen's differently. Girls play in small No wonder a man and a This reflective, revealing professionally and personally. groups and use language to woman can carry on a conver-quality gives credence to the
book, You Just Don't Un­
-

Accent 
Wednesday, March 6, 1991 

to say that his father was a pilot
Lt. Col. Jim Brechwald, (right), coincidentally received a letter 
stationed in Saudi Arabia, "so I know what it feels
that was addressed "To any... Serviceman" from his son, Matt 
like from the other side. I won't see him for some
Brechwald, an NO freshman. 
time, but I know he's over there for a good reason," it's going to be great," said Matt. 
Chuck the deceased warns the living of drastic pitfalls in choosing a major 
"So what an~ you majoring in?" Sornl'orw asks me every day. Or at least every time I bomb a test. Which can seem likn nwry day. 
I always say that I don't know 
Y!~t. 
"Heally? Don't you have to decide soon? What college are you in'?" 
"WPII, I haven't n~ally picked a college either." "You nwan you don't know at 
all?" 
"Basically." 
Like many I>omers, I consid­en~d myself well-rounded in high school. I knew I would have troubh~ picking a major. Unfortunately. last semester I realized being well-rounded just nHHLns I can get a 2.0 in any subject. But I still have to decide. 
So, as part of my quest for the perfeet major, I was reading another one of those "If You Major in Libnral Arts You Won't Sp1md Your Life in the Gutter (Unless You're a Philosopher and You Think You Should)" articles in The Observer during dinrwr last week. Its major points were that nobody from Notre Dame needs to worry about finding a job regardless of their major, that the 70's weren't dead and that vinyl rm~ords wen~ about to make a huge comeback. I guess I was too engrossed by that Inside Column, because I accidently bit into some olive green Operation Desert Storm .Jell-0 and died. 
Notre Dame is a great place to die beeause everybody is sure to notice. As my spirit rose through the r.oof of North Dining llall, I saw five or six Prn-Meds gather around and try to revive me through their collective knowledge of Organic Chemistry, Biology and Anatomy. Not surprisingly, I 
Divine intervention? Son and airman 
father think so 

By JOHN O'BRIEN Cottar added. Managing Editor Cotlar recognized Col Breehwald's name. "I aetually started to cry," Cotlar said. "In my 58 
Whether by. divine intervention or just a years on this earth, I have never been so touched not coincidence, a care paekage sent by members of the only by the emotionalism and courage of this young Notre Dame Air Force ROTC unit to Desert Storm man, but by the miraculous coincidence of the letter troops ended up a son's heartfelt message to his Air arriving in Saudi Arabia at the very base to whieh his Force pilot father. dad was deployed." 
Notre Dame freshman Matt Brechwald included in "I had to believe that there is divine intervention," a care package sent after Christmas a letter he added. addressed "To any Army, Navy, Air Force or marine Col. Brechwald, deployed with the 48th Tactical Serviceman serving in Operation Desert Shield." Fighter Wing (Provisional) from the Royal Air Force Little did he expect that the letter would reach his base at Lakenheath, England, reaeted with pride to father, Lt. Col. Jim Brechwald, an F-111 pilot sta­his son's letter. tio'ned in Western Saudi Arabia. "I was impressed that Matt was trying to motivate 
"It was really neat and kind of funny because it was or 'psyche up' the service member by the very such a coincidence," said Matt, an Air Force ROTC positive words," he said. cadet. "Matt's letter was indicative of the support from 
"I heard about Matt's letter coming back from a America the service member needs to be truly combat training mission," Col. Brechwald said. "I effective in performing his duty in war," he added. He was thrilled that Matt had taken interest in American carried the folded-up l~tter with him in the pocket of servicemen and women serving in the Middle East by his flying suit. writing to any service member." Since the conl1ict in the Middle East began in 
The letter reached Col. Brechwald soon after August 1990, almost 30 million pounds of mail has Operation Desert Storm began on Jan. 16. He has been delivered to service members in the Middle been in Saudi Arabia since August of last year. East. 
Air Force Col. Alvin Cotlar, commander of the "The Air Force eadets have sent numerous tactical hospital at the base, re,ceived the packages and letters addressed to any serviceman or detachment's care package. woman in the Gulf," said Col. Howard Hanson, corps 
"I opened the package from Notre Dame and commander for Air Force HOTC at Notre Dame. started to read one of the letters from the unit While many were sent to random units, some addressed to 'Dear Sir/Ma'am.' I was really im­packages were sent to specific units, he added. "But pressed with the sensitive attitude of the young man as far as I can tell, this package (with Matt's letter) who wrote it," Cotlar said. was sent randomly," Hanson added. 
"He (the writer) began by saying that he knew the "I had written another letter to 'any service reader was homesick and that he was writing to member' and that person sent back a post card 'psyche you up.' He expressed his thanks for the job saying they knew my dad," Matt said. "It's really a lot we were doing, and his concern for the uncertainty of coincidences." that we were facing, but reassured the reader that he If Matt were to write his father another letter today, should 'hang' in there because 'you'll be home before he's send a message of happiness and hope. you know it,"' Cottar said. · "I'd say that I'm glad that the war is over and I'm 
"I was pretty choked up by that time," he added. looking forward to seeing him come home safe and Matt went on sound," Matt said. 
''I'm going to be able to see him this summer and 
kept 11oating upwards until I useless. We've got an old say-· up. Take some night classes, was standing on some clouds. ing up here: 'It's easier for a whatever."
Chuck Young 
The afterlife was pretty bor­camel to pass through the eye Night classes'? In what? 
Fresh Perspective
ing. of a needle than for a liberal "I dunno, something practical. 
A long line of people stretehed arts major to get a job in Try for an MBA, maybe." into the distance where a set of began to beep loudly. "Hang Heaven."' All right, thanks. pearly gates rose into the sky. on, it says here you didn't make I didn't know that. "Listen, keep your nose to the Most of them were dressed in the dean's list in college! How "Look, Bub, how much of a grindstone. Mike didn't want to business suits and kept did you expect to get into brain does it take to figure out? hire a Philo major, but he's readjusting each other's ties. heaven with grades like these?" Everybody on earth who wants willing to make an exception The line slowly moved forward. They're not that bad. to get into heaven spends years since you're from Notre Dame." It reminded me of the infirmary. Besides, I learned a lot in col­studying some practical skill Why? Is he a big fan? 
After what seemed like an lege. What do grades have to that's in demand up here. Do "No, not really." eternity, it was my turn. A man do with it? you think they would do that if So why does it matter that I sitting at a desk next to the "What do grades have to do it didn't help them in the went to Notre Dame? gates smiled at me as he fin­with it? Everything! How else afterlife? Didn't your coun­"Well, you know those new ished typing something into his can we differentiate amongst all selors tell you anything? Your Rocket shoes Nike is gonna 
computer. of the qualified candidates for parents?" make?" "Hello," he said. "I'm St. heavenly posts?" No, not really. But I guess I Yeah? 
I guess I don't know. Maybe
Peter. Welcome to the afterlife. should've seen that. "He's hoping you can help him 
Name, please?" good deeds or something? "You bet your soul you should swing an early shipment. Good Chuek Young. "Good deeds? You don't run have. All right, since you went luck, kid. NEXT!" He waved "Middle initial?" an operation this big on good to Notre Dame, which is really me aside and another guy in a It deeds. This is the 90's. We popular up here, I'll go out into suit stepped up to his desk. "Hi, ".Just a moment." He need sharp, ambitious people limbo for you. Get it? You will I'm St. Peter. Welcome to the 
punched a few keys and his with the drive to succeed. in a minute." He picked up his afterlife. Name, please?" printer started to clack. He People who know what they phone. "FSH shoes, please ...Yo, "Joe Anderson." 
want out of their afterlives and
leaned forward to read the Mike? I'm O.K. How are "Middle Initial?" printout. are willing to work for it. This things? Great. Listen, I've got "M." 
"Hmm, interesting record, is a new, leaner, more innova­another one of these Arts & St. Peter punehed his name here, Chuck. You like basket­tive Heaven that thrives on Letters majors up here ... Yeah, I into his computer and made ball and reading. Your least fa­chaos. We need people who know. But I don't want to send another printout. "Fantastic, vorite food is something ealled can be at the forefront of him downstairs and I thought another guy from Notre Dame. Noodle Kugel. And look at this! spiritual management. you might have something for But you've got a 3.5 in Chemical It says you worked at The Everybody else can just go to-" him... Philosophy, but he's from Engineering! Go right on in. Observer as a columnist! Suddenly, his computer began Notre Dame... Really? Great, We've already got an office set Everybody up here loves your to beep very loudly. "WHOA! I he's on his way." up for you already along with a stuff. You shouldn't have any didn't even notice this: you So what's the deal? generous Medical and Dental problem getting in." majored in Philosophy! What "Well, it looks like you got package." 
Iley, that's great. use do we have in heaven for lucky. Mike is willing to give Joe was dumbstruck. "It's a 
"Your pen name was Ian Philosophy majors?" you a break. He manages a lit­good thing I planned for this in Mitchell, right? Lion Taming? You don't have a lot of tle shop in Purgatory called college," he said. You're my favorite-" Father and SQ.I1's and Holy
philosophers up here? ­
Uh, no, aetually. "Get a death! This is the in­Spirit's Shoes. They've been "Don't pat yourself on the "No?" formation age, man. We need resoling and selling shoes for­back," said St. Peter. "It doesn't I use my real name. You computer programmers, engi­ever. I know Mike, for one, has take that much foresight. Why 
know, Fresh Perspective? neers and scientists. With so been down there on furlough do so many Domers have "You're that freshman'? Oh... many souls to process, accoun­for almost one thousand years, trouble thinking about the Well, don't worry, we'll proba­tants are in high demand. now. I can't believe he's not future?" bly find something for you Business majors are always done yet. Anyway, you're going 
anyway... " He tapped some employable since the bureau­to be in sales." "Sometimes it's easy to forget keys on his computer. "Let's cracy up here is the most com­I've got to spend eternity that there is life after Notre see. You're from Minnesota, you plex in the universe. But . selling shoes? Dame," Joe said. 
like to write... " His computer Philosophy majors? Totally "Nah, you can work your way 
~~ -~~-------------­
page 10 

The Observer Wednesday, March 6, 1991 
Braves bassmaster, 85, leading team to catches of the day 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -A lot of teams bring special coaches to spring training. Ted Williams helps Boston hitters, Sandy Koufax teaches Los Angeles pitchers and Al Kaline instructs Detroit outfielders. 
The Atlanta Braves have Charlie Hohenadal. He's their fishing coach. 
At 85, with a hearing aid and wire-rimmed glasses, he doesn't look like those Hall of Famers. But he's an expert, too. 
"He'll show you how to hook 'em, that's for sure," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. 
Hohenadel has been leading the Braves to bass for 15 years, by his count. Phil Niekro, Bruce Benedict and Len Barker are among the many he's taken to Lake Okeechobee and other fa­vorite fishing holes. 
"I've been out with a bunch of the boys," the Braves bassmas­ter said Tuesday. "There have been so many, I can't remember them all." 
The lure of fishing is natural for baseball players, Hohenadel reckons. 
"They make much better fish­ermen than the average per­son," he said. "They can handle the rod and reel better, they're great at judging distance and they're competitive by nature. If they don't make a good cast the first time, they'll keep doing it until they get it right, whereas someone else might not fix it." 
Ballplayers also make good story-tellers, Hohenadel said. 
"They got some dandies," he said. "They could go on for days." 
In general, it's the older play­ers and coaches who seek out Hohenadel for help while the younger players prefer golf. But one of the big ones that got away was Dale Murphy. 
"I knew him real well, but he doesn't fish," Hohenadel said. "I wanted to get him out on the lake, but I never did." 
Hohenadel and the Braves just kind of came together when the team was in Milwaukee. He ran a fishing school, worked around the club during the spring, got to know some players and it kind of took off from there. 
These days, Hohenadel spends most of his mornings in the corner of the dugout, always wearing his Braves hat. He used to take the players fishing a couple of times a week; he's slowed down a bit, but still lets the guys use his two-man boat whenever they want. 
Sometimes, Hohenadel hits the water before daylight with a player in tow. More often, they go after practice, usually to Mangonia Lake, about a mile from the ballpark. 
"They don't have a lot of time, so they get right out of their uniform and we take off," he said. "Mangonia Lake isn't the best place, but it's close. If you try to go to Okeec!Jobee, you spend two hours driving when you could be fishing." 

Each summer, Hohenadel vis­its Atlanta for a week. He stays at the home of Braves traveling secretary Bill Acree and they go fishing, often with Niekro. 
"Phil's one of the best I've ever seen," Hohenadel said. "He could make a living in tournaments." 
Bass are his favorite, but Hohenadel can catch any kind. 
"He knows the best spots to go, and when to go," Cox said. "That's important, because the conditions change. But Charlie won't keep telling you how to do it. He knows it all, but won't give you advice unless you ask." 
Among those who hope to learn something this spring is John Schuerholz, the Braves new general manager. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 

Classifieds 
spaces. 

1-University Allied Publishers, Inc., seeks NOTICES motivated, entreprenurial students Bar with sink. Five stools. Misc. glasses. Loretta, LOST AT PW I FISHER FORMAL: interested in a campus venture. Great 289-5345. TYPING AVAILABLE resume builder, opportunity for very good 
------No matter what lies ahead I want you to ON SAT. MARCH 2 
know I love you more than anything else 287-4082 money. No capital required. Call David INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a 
and will do anything to save what we have Charcoal-grey, pin-striped suit coat wl 213 Carlock at (617) 894-5575. car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-together. 
dorm keys attached to FORD key ring. 
NY TIMES, used and new books 

6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. Love, Glenn Pandora's Books 233-2342 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MATI corner of ND ave. & Howard SUMMER JOBS 

FOR SALE : ONE WAY TRAIN TICKET ON SENIOR FORMAL 1991 X 1650 10-5:30 everyday ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 318 STOPS IN 
TONIGHT IS THE LAST NIGHT TO PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS CLEVELAND,ERIE,BUFFALO, 
REGISTER FOR SENIOR FORMAL AT 
RESUMES..PA,OFESSIONAL QUALITY. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE SYRACUSE, 
N.D.III 
CALL 272-5667. PLACID. CALL ROCHESTER,SCHENECTADY, ALBANY. 6-9 P.M. IN THEODORE'S 1 0 Reasons to Embarrass Jen Martin Now 1-800-343-8373. 
REAL CHEAP. CALL MATI 3014 BIDS WILL BE ON SALE THURS. FROM 6-and Not on Her B-day: $$EARN CASH OVER BREAK$$ 91N LEMANS. 1.We wanted her to puke first. 
Call Brad at 233-9226 before Friday for Are YOU hitting the beach for 
Toren RTS racquetball racquet $991best 
2.We wanted her to hook up wiRob before details. Spring Break? Well we'd love 

233-3059 STAND-UP COMEDIANS; need Michelle did. to also! Need a ride for 2 in 
comedians for SUB comedy night on April3; 3.So we could say,"How's that toilet?" BASEBALL FANS! Alabama/Florida direction. 
call Adam x3374 4. We wanted her tolerance to improve from 
I ncms

Draft your own Fantasy League (Rotiserie) DO CALL PIER AT 3303 2 wine coolers. 
Team 
Denver air: lv 319 (or open on 

AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 5.She never would've let us use the car.and compete in upstart league EARN $3001$500 PER WEEK READING Amtrak,) ret 3115. OW $120, RT $200. Dolls -5 women & 5 men 6.So she could PDA on the dance floor. 
with fellow ND students. 

BOOKS AT HOME. Patrick 289-8390 7pm Tues 315 Wash. Hall 7 .She was too busy chopping garlic. 
American League only. 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 7pm Wed 316 Wash. Hall 8.She had to overcome her affinity tor Interested Call Paul x3265 (Lower Lab) amphibians.
respond quickly Teams going fast. NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO SBIChic/Denver 1way 9.Luce had to change the tire. 
OR OXFORD VICINITY ON Mar 9, Cheap 277-9361 HELP ME!(...please?} 1 O.Better her than us! 
MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY $$$.
I LOST/FOUND ,-_-

Desparate female needs a ride to the Windy -the 8-4-8 CALL KATIE X2862. 
City for break. If you are driving to Chicago
PERSONALS ~­
found: on 2122191 a lady's wnstwatch was on Thurs., Mar. 7, please give me a call. (I'll 
found outside of Knott Hall around 11 :00 MoDELs WANTED FOR ADVANCED even ride in the trunk, will pay tolls, etc.) 
p.m. If you can idenlify it, call x1209. HAVE MERCY ON ME! Need a ride HAIRCUTIING CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S Call Chris 283-4011. 
TOPIOLESSONSLEARNEDIN 

to MINNESOTA for break, leave any1ime, 277-1875. 
THE DT FROM LEWIS GIRLS: FOUND: ONE MEN'S SEIKO WATCH. gas, tolls, you name it. GREG 3234 Then fly betimes, for only 10.Don't come earlyFOUND IN THE PARKING LOT (D2) THE 

SENIORS -THINKING ABOUT SERVICE 
they 9.Don't come lateWEEK OF 2/18-22. CALL CAROLINE AT Need ride to WISCONSIN 
NEXT YEAR?? consider HOLY CROSS 
Conquer love that run away. 8.Biender's broken-don't comeX4354 TO CLAIM. 
for a sunny Spring Break! ASSOCIATES. Applications due MARCH ?.Music choice: 70's 70's 70's! 
Please call Frank at x1443 20. Call M.A. White (5521) or M.A.Roemer •• RIGHT-TO-LIFE •• 6.BABSMANIA!

LOST 8-9 KEYS 2-22. THE KEY CHAIN IS and leave a message. (7949) for more info. Interested in being an officer for next year?? 5.Pienty of good cheek A WHITE BALL. REWARD. 
There are many positions available for 4.New cool word: BONKERS!
CALL MARK X1584 Need a ride to NYC?? Call Jennifer at ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple energetic Pro-Life students. For info. 3.Veal can find another X4842 . 

will give your newborn the best things in life. please contact Maria at x2613, Julie at blenderSomeone accidently picked up Let us help you through this difficult time. x4859, Mary Lee at x2671, or Bill at x4062. 
2.Hudes can find another date my long gray tweed winter Medical expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Call today!!!!!!! 

1.You'll find your girl. ..
coat with a velvet collar 
FOR RENT 

Call Barbara and Joe anytime. (800) 253-•• RIGHT-TO-LIFE •• SomedaySaturday night at a party on 8086.
Nowi.Nslng
Notre Dame Ave. A similar Photography for Formals-Halls-Dances­coat was left behind. If you ~FAYETTE SQUARE 

Resumes .... Professional quality 272-5667. ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539. have it please call Karin at 
TOWNHOMES 
(Tom Williams) 
St. Jude Norvena: May the sacred heart of x1992.] 
4 6 5 BEDROOM UNrTS 

FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING Jesus be adored, glorified, loved and 
AVAILABLE 

ATIENTION! VANESSA 272-9305. 
preserved throughout the world now andLOST: I lost my thin link gold 

National firm has many part-time openings. 
AmeniUu lndydt· forever, Sacred Heart of Jesus, Pray for us.
bracelet on Wednesday, 

Looking for students who live within 1DO­
-WASHER & DRYER "I just want to be FRIENDS." St. Jude, worker of miracles, pray for us.

Feburary 2011 If you find it, 

mile radius of campus for special work 
St. Jude, Helper of the hopeless, pray for ·SECURITY SYSTEM please call Jessica at 4824. 

program. $8.10 starting. AASP scholarships FRIENDS: A fate worse than 
us. Say this prayer nine time a day; by the & internships available. Flexible schedule. FACE! 
-DISHWASHER eighth day, your prayer will be answered. 
-CENTRAL AIR

FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd floor, rm 
Call259-9740 for interview. 
Publication must be promised. Thank you 
-PATIOS

224?) on Sun. 2124/91. Call Matt @3472. 
11 B-the FACE Zone. St. Jude. B.J.M.
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS 

Do you not have a clue about how you are It's colder than a Heisman in here! LEFTI 
getting back to ND after spring break is 
Riders needed-St. Louis x1607 Found lady's golden ring near the stadium. pLL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 

over? Do you live in the New England NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH for S.Paul t.271-0868 
232-8258 

area? Can you drive a stick? WOULD BREAK $ JoAnne 1275 
Hey 11B!!! YOU LIKE A RIDE? If you answered yes to 
The reason you have such Found: Men's watch in D2 parking lot. Call GRAD. WEEKEND any of these questions, give me a call. I Free up to (4) four cans of coke with your FACE problems is that you don't eat enoughx1852 to identify. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY need a passenger for the return trip only. Pizza order from Gina's 271-0200 
PASTA!!
219-291-7153. 
-Moire x4914 
Love, the PASTA chicks! 
LOST: The TUTUS ARE COMING!!!!!! P.S. Who won the Heisman @ Fisher I PW Formal on 

4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. No damn cat, no damn cradle. The TUTUS ARE COMING!!!!!! 
this week?? Just curious. 

Sat. March 2 Rates. Phone#232-1776. 
ice-nine Are you excited? 
Charcoal-grey, pin-striped 

TOMORROW NIGHT 9:00pmsuit coat wl 213 dorm keys 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living The Coffeehouse 
Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus Hi Big Monicas, Sluthill, and Herbie, attached to FORD key ring-. Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Don't be a stuppal Sarroon! 
While Playing Basketball: We're in it tor the I hope you're having a nice lunch!!! It is Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 
chicks. 
now 2:20 and the production goddesses areIF FOUND, PLEASE CALL: 232-1776. •••••••**.**•••••****** getting restless!! 

Mattx1650 Attention Ads People : GATEKEEPER 

AMY RAZZ, JULIE SHERIDAN, ANNE ROSES ARE REDLOST: A CHARCOAL-GRAY 
I fORSALE 

GALEHOUSE, CAROLINE BROCK, AMY AND SOMETIMES YELLOW Robyn Simmons, SUIT COAT AT THE P.W. 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 LEROUX,GEOFF STELLA, SCOTI HALES, THANK YOU FOR BEING SUCH FORMAL (U repair). Delinquent tax property. 

KERRI OWENS, MIKE OWEN, DANIELLE A THOUGHTFUL, KIND FELLOW For your information, Neil Diamond DOES CALL ED AT X1891 Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 962-DUCHATELLIER, BRIAN HARTY AND KEY MASTER SO have a multitude of very nice songs!! So 8000. 
DAVID LEMON -­
get it straight! 

-Ext. GH-9834 for current repo To whomever "borrowed" the Charlatans UK LOST: Brown leather ID holder list. 
Thanks for a great year and all the hard disk from the party Saturday at 1662 Turtle with $$$$ at bookstore or work you put into the Advertising Creek: Herbie:library on 3/1 . Reward if all One way tix from NY-SB on 3/17. Cheap! 
Department. You won't have to witness any It's pretty nice of you to come to our party, PLEASE COME AND LICK MY FACEis returned. Teresa 271-9299 call Janice x2993 
more of my fits!!! I had fun and I hope you 
drink for free, and help yourself to a CD that AGAIN ..... I MISS YOUR LOVING 
did too!! Good luck next year (for those of was not even ours! II 
TONGUE! IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! 3 BDRM you who are staying!!) and to all the seniors Anyway, we DO need it back, and if you 
GUESS WHO? HOME FOR SALE BY OWNER. -may we all have jobs in the near future but could please return it in our mailbox ASAP FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM WIBAR. MOVE­until then ... CHEERS!! 
__w_ANT_e_o---...~~1-­
we would appreciate it..(no questions Kelley,NEED DRIVER(S): One-Way to L.A. area. 
IN COND. 15 MIN WALK FROM ND. APPT ***Bethe .... 
asked.) 
Happy birthday to you ............ Sept. 4, 1991, 

Call DSI at 232-3784. ONLY. 234-8116, EVE. 
Thanks 1662 the massacre begins! 

Wednesday, March 6, 1991 page 11
SCOREBOARD ... 
-

NHL STANDINGS 
AI TirTM EST 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon 
w L 

NY Rang... 34 22 
Philadelphia 31 28 
Plltoburgh 33 30 
N-Jel'ley 28 29 
Waohlng1on 29 32 
NY lslandel'l 22 37 
Adame Dlvlalon 
x-Boston 38 22 
x-Montraal 34 26 
x-Buffalo 25 25 
x-Hart1ord 28 31 
Quebec 12 43 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
No"la Dlvlelon 
w L x-St. Loull 40 18 x-Chlcago 40 21 De1roh 211 32 Minnesota 21 33 Toronto 19 41 Smythe Dlvlalon x-Los Angeles 39 20 x-Calgary 38 22 Edmonton 31 31 Winnipeg 23 36 Vancouver 24 39 
x-cNnched playoff berth Tu..day'a Gamu 
De1roM 6, Quebec 3 
St. Loull 4, Hartford 1 
N.Y. lalandel'l4, N-Jel'ley 3 
Plnlburgh 4, Vancouver 1 
Toronto 8, Boston 3 
Los Angelea 3. W•hlngton 3, tie 
Edmonton 5, Wlnnpeg 4 Weclneaday'a Gamaa N-Jeraey at Buffalo. 7:35p.m. Montreal a1 Chicago. 8:35 p.rn Edmonton a1 Mlnneeota. 8:35p.m. Thuraday'a Gamaa 
St. Loula at Booton, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. lalandel'l at De1roM, 7:35p.m. 
Loa Angeles at Plltsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangel'l a1 Quebec, 7:35p.m. 
Vancouver at ToroniO, 7:35p.m. 
Philadelphia at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American Laague 
OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terma wtlh 
Joe KUnk. phcher, on a one-year contract. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to tarma wtlh Jack Daugheny and Jeff Huaon, lnfleldel'l, on one-year contracta. Ran-tha contracta of Kevin Brown and Kenny Rogers. pltchara. and Chad Kreuter. 
<2tchar. 
TORONTO BLUE JAY~amed Mike McAlpin coach of Knoxvlle of the Southam League. Agreed to tarma with Harry Muir and Robert Panerson, phchel'l, on one-year contracta. National League 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE8-Agreed to terms with Rld<y Jordan, flrat baSeman, and Mlcl<ey Morandlnl, second baSeman, on one-year contracla. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Named Greg Coma director of Arizona operatlona. Named Craig Pletenlk Interim general manager of Phoenix of the Padflc Coaat League. 
BASKETBALL 
National B..katbtltf Aaaoclatlon 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPERs-Placed Ken Nonman, forward, on the Injured Mot. Activated Wlnaton Garland, guard, from the Injured llat. 
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Activated David Wingate, guard. 
FOOTBALL 
National Footbatf League 
NEW YORK JET8-Signed Chris Goetz. guard. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLE8-Signed Don McPhal'lon, quarterbaCk. to a one-year contract. Named Pe1er Giunta defensive and special teams aulatant coach. Canadian Football League 
OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Named Robert Prloe defensive secondary coach. 
HOCKEY National Hockey Laague 
BUFFALO SABREs-Traded Ken Priestlay, center.to the Plnaburgh Pengulna for Tony TanU, right wing. Purchued Steve Weeka. goalie. from lha Vancouver Canucl<a. 
CALGARY FLAME8-Traded Marl< Hunter, right wing, to the Hart1ord Whalel'l for Carey WHson. canter. Traded Marc Bureau. center. to the Mlnnea01a North Stars for a third-round plck In the 1911t drafl. 
CHICAGO BLACKHAWK$-Tradad Mike McNeill, canter, and Ryan McGHI, defenseman, to the 
. 

T Pta GF GA 
12 80 259 212 9 71 225 215 4 70 285 258 11 67 237 225 6 64 214 231 9 53 194 250 
8 64 253 229 8 76 233 210 16 66 233 226 9 65 204 230 12 36 190 304 
T Pta GF GA 9 89 268 211 6 86 229 173 8 66 241 259 13 55 207 227 8 46 207 282 
8 86 287 212 7 83 285 213 5 67 228 224 11 57 234 253 7 55 208 277 
Quebec Nordlques for Paul Gillis, center, and Dan 
Vlncelone, left wing. 
EDMONTON OILER8-Traded Kim Issei. right wing, to the Plnsburgh Penguins for Brad Aitken, left wing. 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Traded llkka 
Sinlsalo, left wing, to the Los Angeles Kings for an 
eighth-round pick In the 1991 draft. 
MONTREAL CANADIENS-Traded Mark 
Pedel'len, left wing, to the Philadelphia Flyel'l for a 
second-round pick In the 19111 draft. Anlgned 
Donald Dufresne. delenseman, and Jean-Claude 
Bergeron, goalie, to Fredericton of the American 
Hockey League. 
NEW YORK RANGERs-Traded Kevin Miller, 
center; Dennll Vial, defenseman, and the rights to 
Jim Cummins. right wing, to the Detroh Red Wings 
for Joe Kocur, right wing, and Per Olav D}oos, 
delenseman. 
ST. LOUIS BLUEs-Traded Keith Osborne, right 
wing, to the Toronto Maple Leafs lor Darren Veitch, 
defenseman. Assigned Veitch to Peoria of the 
International Hockey League. 
TORONTO MAPLE LEAF$-Traded Allan Bl!6ter, 
goalie, to the Detroh Red Wings for a sixth-round 
choice In the 1911t draft. Traded Bobby Reynolds, 
left wing, to the Washington Caphals for Rob 
Mendel, defenseman. 
VANCOUVER CANUCK8-Traded Dan Quinn, 
center, and Garth Butcher, delenseman, to the St. 
Louis Blues for Geoff Courtnall and Sergio 
Momesso, left wings; Robert Dirk, defenseman, 
and Clift Ronning. center. Traded Ron Stem. right 
wing, and Kevan Guy, delenseman, and future 
considerations to the Calgary Flames for Dana 
Murzyn. defenseman. Traded Steve Weeks, goalie, 
to the Buffalo Sabres lor cash and future 
considerations. 
COLLEGE 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE DIRECTORS OF ATHLETIC~amed Mke Lude chairman of the long-range planning committee. 
BRADLEY-Announced the resignation of Stan Abed<, baake1ball coach. BROWN-Announced the resignation of Mike Clnglaer, baske1ball coach, eftecllve March 31. ROCKLAND COMMUNITY COLLEGE-Named Cheryl Bernfeld women's softball coach. WILMINGTON, OHIO-Named Mke Wallace football coach. 

Hank Record School Pomts 1 27-0 UIIILV 1,550 2 25-1 Ohio St. 1,4B8 3 25-4 Indiana 1,363 4 26-4 Syracuse 1,347 5 28-3 Arkansas 1,298 6 25-6 Duke 1,270 7 22-5 North Carolina 1,156 8 26-2 Utah 1,103 9 24-6 Arizona 1,048 10 22-6 Kentucky 947 11 23-4 New Mexico St. 846 12 21-6 Kansas 813 13 24-6 Nebraska 773 14 21-6 Oklahoma St. 700 15 28-4 E. Tennessee St. 607 16 20-8 LSU 467 17 21-8 UCLA 451 18 20-7 Mississippi St. 450 19 23-2 Princeton 437 20 20-7 St. John's 427 21 19-8 Seton Hall 377 22 21-6 Southern Miss. 376 23 20-7 Texas 263 24 18-9 Alabama 149 25 18-8 DePaul 76 
AP 
Other receiving votes: Illinois 64, Plnsburgh 50. Connecticut 45. New Mexico 44, N. Carolina St. 36, Wake For9Bt 23, Fordham 17, Virginia 17, N. llllnola 14, MIBSourl11. N-Orleans 8, E. Michigan 6, Temple 6, Brigham Young 4, Creighton 4, South Alabama 4, George1own 3, Pepperdlne 3, Louisiana Tech 2, SW MIBSourl St. 2, Furman 1, Georgia 1, Houston 1, Michigan St. 1, 
St Francia, Pa. 1. 
BOXES 

LA LAKERS (85) 
Perkins 4·11 2-2 10, Worthy 8·18 1-2 18, Dlvac 2-3 0-0 4, Johnson 9-20 14-14 32, soon 4-12 1-1 10, Green 3-4 0-0 6, Thompson 1·2 0-0 2, Teagle 0-3 2-3 2, Smhh 0-3 0-0 0, CafTl)bell 0-0 1-2 1. T01als 31·76 21·24 85. MINNESOTA (IM) 
Corbin 9-20 !HI23, MMche117-16 1·3 15, Spenoer 2-5 0-0 4, Cafi1Jbell11·20 3-5 25, Richardson 4-8 0-2 8, Glass 2-4 1·1 5, Brooks 1­3 0-0 2, West 3-4 0-0 6, Murphy 1-1 4-6 6. T01ala 40-81 14·23 94. Los Angel1!6 15 22 22 2&-115 Mlnneaota 16 24 27 27-1M 
3-Polnt goals-Los Angeles 2·9 (Scott 1-1. Worthy 1·3, Perkins 0-1, Johnson 0-4), Mlnnes01a 0-2 (Brooks 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Los Angeles 43 (Worthy 7), Mlnn9Bota 55 (Mhchell14). ABIIsts-Los Angeles 19 (Johnson 9), Mlnnes01a 24 (Corbin, Richardson 7). Total fouls-los Angeles 17, Mlnneaota 23. Technlcals-Corbin, Mlnneaota Illegal defense. A-19,006. 
PHOENIX (107) 
Chambers 9-20 13-14 32, McDanlel6-9 2-2 14, Lang 2-4 2·2 8, Hornacek 2·7 0-1 5, Johnson 10-16 9-10 211, Ramble 0-1 0-0 0, West 1-11-4 3, Majerle 5-10 2-4 12. Ceballos 1·2 0-0 2, Knight 0-1 0-0 0, Carroll2-4 0-0 4. T01als 38-75 29-37 107. NEW YORK (102) 
Oakley 6-9 9-14 21, Vandeweghe 3-12 1·1 7, Ewing 15-28 6-8 36, Cheeka 2·3 4-4 8, G.Wiklns 3-9 2-2 8, Statka 3-7 2·2 8, Oulnnen 3-6 0-0 7, 
NBA STANDINGS 
All Times EST EASTERN CONFERENCE AUantk: Dlvlalon 
w L Pet. GB Boston 43 18 .7211 Philadelphia 32 26 .552 10 112 N-York 27 32 .458 t6 Washington 22 36 .379 20 112 Miami 19 39 .328 23112 N-Jersey 19 40 .322 24 Central Dlvlalon Chicago 42 15 .737 081roh 38 22 .633 5112 Milwaukee 36 24 .600 7 112 Atlanta 34 25 .576 9 Indiana 28 31 .475 16 Cleveland 20 37 .351 22 Charlone 17 42 .288 26 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mid-at Dlvfalon 
w L Pet. GB Utah 39 18 .664 San Antonio 37 19 .661 1 112 Houston 34 24 .588 5112 Dallas 22 35 .388 17 Mlnnes01a 19 38 .333 20 Orlando 19 39 .328 20 112 Denver 16 41 .281 23 Pacific lllvlalon Portland 46 14 .763 LA Lakel'l 42 17 .712 3 Phoenix 39 19 .672 5112 Golden State 30 27 .526 14 Seattle 29 28 .509 15 LA Clippers 20 38 .345 24 112 Sacramento 15 41 .268 28 112 Monday'• Gamea 
Boston 126, Indiana 101 Phoenix 126, Charlotte 93 Utah 106, Oriando 88 Dallas 102, N-Jersey 100 Seanle 105, Golden State 99 
Tueaday'a Gamu 
Law Gamea Not Included Atlanta 139, Denver 127 Indiana 112. Charlotte 101 Miami 116, LA Clippers 113 Mlnnes01a 94, LA Lakel'l 85 Phoenix 107, N-York 102 Chicago 104, Milwaukee 86 Houston 112, N-Jersey 1 00 San Antonio 104, Philadelphia 99 Cleveland at Seattle, (n) Golden Stale at Sacramento, (n) 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Mlarri at Boston, 7:Xl p.rn New York at Detroit, 7:30p.m. LA Clippers at Oriando, 7:30p.m. Utafl at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Dallas, 8:Xl p.m. 
Thuraday'a Gamaa Phoenix at Atlanta, 7:30 p.rn Denver at Indiana, 7:30p.m Seanle at Mlnneaota, 8 p.m. 
Dallas at Houston, 8:30 p.rn LA Lakers at Milwaukee, 8:Xl p.m. New Jersey at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Cleveland at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
MILWAUKEE (86) 
Roberts 3·1 0 0-0 6, Grayer 8-18 3-4 19, Schayes 3-11 3-6 9, Robertson 2·6 0-0 4, Humphries 6-11 0-1 12, Ellll 7-14 2-2 19, Conner 0-2 0-0 0, Skma 0-2 1·2 1, Lohaus 3-7 4-4 10, Stephens 2-2 2-2 6, Kome1 0-1 0-0 0. T01als 34-84 15-21 86. CHICAGO (104) 
King 2-6 2-2 6, Pippen 8-11 0-0 17, Cartwright 5­9 3-4 13, Paxson 3-8 0-0 6, Jordan 9-23 12-13 30, Armstrong 4-7 0-0 9, Levingston 2-4 3-4 7, Perdue 4-7 2·3 10, Hodges 2-5 0-0 4, Hopson 1-1 0-0 2. Williams 0-1 0·0 O.Totala 40-82 22·26 104. Milwaukee 25 19 21 21-86 Chicago 20 30 25 29-104 
3-Polnt goals-Milwaukee 3·10 (Eilla 3-6, Schayes 0-1, Robertson 0-1, Humphries 0-1, Lohaus 0-1), Chicago 2·3 (Pippen 1·1, Armatrong 1-1. Hodges 0-1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Milwaukee 49 (Schayea 12), Chicago 53 (P~n 10). Assists-Milwaukee 20 (Robertson. Ellie 5), Chicago 28 (Armstrong 7). T01al louie-Milwaukee 26, Chicago 21. T echnlcals.-Chlcago coach Jacl<son, Paxson. Ellll. Flagrant foul-Robertson. A-18,335. 
PHILADELPHIA (1111) 
Barl<ley 9-24 3-6 22. GIHiam 8-t3 1·1 17, Mahom 5-10 6-6 16, R.Green 1·8 0-0 2. Hawkins 9-15 9-9 211, Turner 1-4 0-0 2, R.Andel'lon 3-10 0-0 6, Bol1­2 1·2 3, Oliver 1·1 0-0 2. T01als 38-87 20-24 911. SAN ANTONIO (104) 
Elliott 8-13 2·3 14, Cummings 8-15 2·2 18, Robinson 13-22 7-11 33, Presaey 2·2 0-0 4, W.Anderson 5-17 2·2 12, Johnson 3-3 0-0 6, 
NCAA RESULTS 
TOURNAMENTS 
Eaat Cout Conference 
Championship 
Towaon St. 69, Rider 83 liM Poat Se•aon Firat Round 
Mo. Western 85, SE MIBSourl 73 Mid-Continent Conference Championship 
WII.-Green Bey 56, N. llllnola 39 Mlde..t Collegiate Conference Fll'lt Round 
Gannon 68, Buffalo 65 
LeMoyne 86, Mercyhurat 58 · llaaourl V•lley Conference Champlonahlp 
Creighton 88, SW MIIISOUri St.52 
NAIA Dletrtct 10 
Championship 
Emporia St. 109, Fort Hays St. 89 
NAIA Dlatrlct 27 
Championship 
Athens St. 911, Faukner 92 
NAIA Dlatrtct 30 
Championship 
St Rose 96, St. Thomaa Aquinas 89 
Rio Grande 109, Malone 100 North AUantlc Conferance Firat Round 
Booton U. 88, ~ Hatrp~hlre 57 


Wednesday, March 6, 1991 The Observer page 12 
... 
SPORTS ROUNDUP 

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Oakland manager Tony La Russa is not that upset at no-show Rickey Henderson -yet. 
.Henderson hasn't talked to anyone in the 1\s organization since training camp opened almost two weeks ago. He must report by Wednesday or risk fines and the agitation of his manager. 
At the moment, La Russa is staying calm over Rickey's absence. 
"As long as it doesn't interfere with what our team is trying to accomplish," La Russa said. "If he shows up by April 1, he'll be ready." 
La Russa, long known as a thinking man's manager, thought he might do something to "tease" the absent outfielder to show up. "I have been thinking about something, but (the participants) would be limited to our uniformed personnel," he said. 
AUSTIN, Texas-Nolan Richardson almost didn't make the trip to Texas. And certainly after Arkansas's 99-86 loss to the Longhorns, he wished he hadn't. 
The Arkansas coach caught the flu during the week and had spent most of the past several days in bed. During Sunday's game, "Strollin"' Nolan was confined to the bench and stood up only once all afternoon. 
The only reason Richardson went, he said, was because of his past disappearing acts in Austin. Last year, Richardson left the bench late in the game, but returned when the game went over­time. 
"If it was any other game, I wouldn't have even made the trip," Richardson said. " I couldn't afford to leave for the second straight game. Besides, I didn't want these people calling me chicken." 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Ernie Harwell, who some say has written the book on baseball broadcasting, has written a book on baseball. 
Harwell, entering his 31st and final season as the Detroit Tigers' play-by-play broadcaster, has authored "Ernie Harwell's Diamond Gems," a collection of baseball anecdotes. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs will be held April 11th. There will be 3 and 6 mile runs. Students and staff should start training now. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club: weather permitting, practices will be held from Monday, March 4 through Thursday, March 7 at 2:30 


18-year old Lindros ready for NHL 
Already being compared to Lemieux, Gretzky 
NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario (AP) -The sign is unfolded in the stands during the first period of the Oshawa Generals' game against the Niagara Falls Thunder: "On the Eighth Day, God Created Eric Lindros." 
Pretty heady stuff for someone who just turned 18 and still wears braces -but nothing new for Lindros, the most cov­eted junior hockey player since the Pittsburgh Penguins' Mario Lemieux. 
"I don't think comparisons do anyone any good," said Lindros, who people have compared to hockey's holy triumvirate: Lemieux, Gretzky and Howe. "No one is 100 percent similar to anyone else." 
But a look at Lindros provides an idea of how the comparisons got started. 
At 6-foot-5 and 218 pounds, Undros has Lemieux's size. His on-ice vision and precision 'passing are reminiscent of Gretzky's playmaking magic. And, like Howe, Lindros is a physical player who seems to thrive when the going gets rough. 
Plenty of prospects have one or maybe even two of the above-detailed attributes. Very few have all three, which makes it understandable why, barring the unforeseen, Lindros will be 
the first player chosen in next 
June's NHL draft. 
"He looks like a guy who can 
change the flow of the game at 
will," said Buffalo Sabres gen­
eral manager Gerry Meehan. 
"Whether or not he can do it at the pro level, obviously, that's another thing," Meehan said. "But at the junior level, it looks like he can have his way in most games. If he needs a big · effort or a goal, he can go out 
and manufacture something." 
Such was the case in the 
Generals' game against the 
Thunder recently. Tied 2-2 in 
the first period but playing list­
lessly, the Generals had two 
players in the penalty box when 
Lindros seemingly decide'd it 
was time to score. 
As he cradled the puck inside 
his own blue line and headed 
up ice, both Niagara Falls de­
fensemen began backpedaling 
frantically, maintaining a 10­
foot safety zone between them­
selves and the elusive Lindros. 
Crossing the Thunder blue 
line, Lindros headed to the right 
and flicked his head in a nearly 
imperceptible feint. Using one 
arm to ward off his would-be 
checker, he curved around the 
defense and snapped a one­
handed shot, low and hard, just inside the far post. 
Don't think that was a fluke; those who regularly watch the Generals, the Ontario Hockey League leader with 94 points, say it's one of his favorite plays. 
"Oh yeah, it was a rifle. It was just a bullet," he said with a self-deprecating laugh after the game. "It's just a wrist shot. Anything you can do to win, you make use of it." 
It was Lindros' second goal of the game -the other came as he held off two checkers in front of the net to deftly tip home a shot from the point. 
For the season, Lindros leads the OHL in scoring with 69 goals and 69 assists in 53 games. He also leads the league in shorthanded goals with 10 and, surprisingly, is among the leaders in penalty minutes with 179. 
He's a little sensitive about that last statistic, maintaining opponents are "trying to bait me" into picking up penalties. The tactic worked for the Thunder. who picked up a goal while Lindros sat in the penalty box for roughing. 
But there was a price to pay. In the game's final minutes, Niagara Falls' Derek Booth fu­riously stick-checked Lindros before ramming both forearms 

p.m.at the Boathouse. Official practices begin March 18 also at. 2:30p.m. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 
Arkansas hoops player suspended 
•Censored Bookstore Basketball teams have until 
Hawkins breaks team rule; investigation pending
Thursday, March 7 at 5 p.m. to submit a new, uncensorable name to the SUB secretary,. 2nd floor LaFortune. A copy of the list will be 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) -rules apparently were violated Richardson said. ''I'm going on posted outside the SUB office until Thursday. 
Redshirt junior forward Darrell because woman visitors are what I know at this point. I Hawkins will be suspended for permitted only during specified haven't received all "the infor­
•Men's Volleyball: The Irish play three home matches this 
the first three games next sea­hours. An investigation began mation. I'll wait for the total
week: Wednesday vs. Tri-State University and Friday vs. 
son for violating team rules by after a 33-year-old Springdale finding and act accordingly."
Cincinnati. All matches start at 7:30p.m. in the JACC pit, but most 
having a woman in his room in woman reported the incident to A report on the incident is be­importantly, they are all free. 
the athletic dormitory, coach campus police on Feb. 27. ing prepared by the university 
Nolan Richardson said Tuesday. and will be presented to Ziser the NVA today. A $25 entry fee is required. 
•Rosters for Women's lnterhall outdoor soccer are due at 
Richardson announced the The suspension will prevent on Wednesday or Thursday, an suspension less than a week Hawkins from playing in the official said. Athletic director 
•Rosters for Undergrad 12" Softball (Men's and Women's) 
after authorities investigated an Maui Classic in Hawaii. Frank Broyles said Monday that are due today at the NVA office. Minimum of 12 and maximum ol 
alleged sexual assault in the "Not only is this a violation of no decision on disciplinary16 players. 
athletic dorm. team rules but it's against the action would be made until he dorm policy also," Richardson receives the report.
•Campus 32 Team Soccer Tournament rosters are due in 
Prosecutor Andrew Ziser said said. "Anyone else involved is a Earlier Tuesday, Broyles an­the NVA office today. First 32 teams submitted with $10 entry fee 
on Saturday that evidence in­judgment decision and is a nounced plans to accelerate thewill play. Open to students, faculty and staff. Varsity players not volving a woman's rape accusa­team matter. They will be dealt integration of non-athletes intoeligible. Double elimination tournament with play to start March tions didn't warrant filing of with in a direct and private the athletic dorm as well as31. 
charges. The woman also de­manner. provide other living arrange­
cided not to press charges, "I acted on a combination of ments for some athletes. The Minimum of 12 players. Rules to be handed out with schedule. 
•Grad/Faculty/Staff Softball rosters are due to the NVA today. 
Ziser said. team rules and how I feel about move is in line with NCAA legis­The prosecutor said dorm what has happened," lation. 
•

i• The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. . •. i• 
: an essential ingredient in your :
•: 
career planning strategy •:

• 
: 
• Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate •: : Chicago. : : • Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. : : • Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in :


: ~~. : 
: • Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. : : • Receive career counseling. :-: • Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. : 
i Cdllce i 
• FOil TE'IIIIPOIIAIII!I • 
• IE 

The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 • 
•~....................................................................................•• 

Wednesday, March 6, 1991 The Observer page 13 
-

Shaq Attack's on the rack: LSU star to miss SEC tourney 

AP Photo 

Testimony begins in card case
LSU will be without the services of Shaquille O'Neal during the SEC 
tournament. A leg fracture may cause him to miss the NCAAs. 
Teen says he traded $1200 Ryan rookie 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­What looked to be a promising postseason for LSU now hinges on the fractured leg of Shaquille O'Neal. 
The Shaq Attack is on the rack. 
O'Neal, the nation's leading rebounder, is out of this week's Southeastern Conference tour­nament and could even miss the NCAA tournament if the injury fails to heal in time. 
"The doctors feel it's a situa­tion that will have to be re­evaluated next week," LSU as­sistant coach Craig Carse said Tuesday. "He's walking on it, but it will be a while before he can run and do the other things. The feeling is that this time next week, they will re­evaluate again, and we believe it will be fine. 
"We feel real good about the NCAA." 
Coach Dale Brown was unavailable for comment Thesday, but said earlier, "If he has not healed 1 00 percent by NCAA tournament time, he will not play." 

WHEATON, Ill. (AP) -A teen-ager who snagged a Nolan Ryan rookie baseball card worth $1.200 for $12 and is
is currently accepting applications for the 
being sued by the store he
following paid positions: 
bought it from testified Thesday that he no longer has the card. 
Saint Mary's Day 
"I traded it," Bryan Wrzesinski told Karen
Editors (2) 
Delveaux, the lawyer for the store, Ball-Mart Baseball. 
Two students are needed to perform general 
Walter Maksyn, the lawyer
office duties including answering telephones and 
representing Wrzesinski, said 
taking classifieds. Each day editor must be able 
he believed the 13-year-old to work 12 to 3 p.m. at least two days a week at 
from the Chicago suburb of Addison had traded the Ryan
the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more 
rookie card Monday night for a
information, call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
Joe Namath football card and a 
Tom Seaver baseball carr!. 
$$$ MONEY $$$ 
for 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Axed 
• $500 Maximum 
• Deferred Payments: ~0°~~~:;C~n~ill ~u~~~~991) 
• Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
• NOTREDAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from the Unlversit 

The 7 -foot-1 center, the SEC's player of the year who averages 28 points, 14.5 rebounds and 
5.1 blocked shots per game, suffered a hairline fracture of his left leg during LSU's game last Wednesday against Florida. 
Brown held O'Neal out of the Tigers' final regular-season game last Saturday -a loss at Mississippi State that gave the Bulldogs their first SEC title in 28 years. O'Neal was be re­placed by 7-0 sophomore Geert Hammick, who had 20 points and 10 rebounds in his first ca­reer start. 
Originally, it was believed that O'Neal's injury was a bruise and that he would play in the SEC tournament. However, a further examination by an orthopedic specialist on Monday found a hairline fracture of the fibula near its juncture with the knee. 
"Those who saw the Florida game saw he was limping real bad toward the end of the game," said Dr. J. Thomas Kilroy, who diagnosed O'Neal's injury. "We examined the area, 
"I think the boy had a right to sell the card," Maksyn said. "It was his property." 
The news brought the first day of proceedings in DuPage County Circuit Court to a halt, as Judge Ann Jorgensen con­ferred with the lawyers in her chambers for nearly an hour. 
After the meeting, the case was put otT until Thursday. 
In morning testimony, clerk Karen Baker testified that she thought the superstar pitcher's rookie card was priced at $12 when she sold it last April. 
"That's what I thought the symbols on the card meant," she said. 
Wrzesinski has said the card said, plus the expenses of legal was simply marked "1200" fees. without a dollar sign, decimal "The money is not the only point or comma. He said he point, the principle is the is­knew the card was worth more sue," he said. than $12, but he had no idea Irmen said he offered $100 for how much. the card back before filing the 
Ryan is baseball's all-time suit, but the boy turned him strikeout leader and has tossed down. 
THE VARSITY SHOP 
1639 Edison Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 

and it was tender below the knee joint on the fibula head. We later did a bone scan of the area, and sure enough, it was a hairline fracture of the fibula head." 
Kilroy was unavailable for comment on Thesday. 
The 16th-ranked Tigers (20-8) are certain to be invited on Sunday to play in the NCAA tournament, even if they fail to put on a good showing in the SEC tournament. LSU meets Auburn (12-15) on Friday. 
"It's certainly disappointing to know that one of the great players in the country will miss the SEC tournament," Auburn coach Tommy Joe Eagles said. "His absence is a distraction from the tournament." 
Mississippi State coach Richard Williams calls O'Neal "the best player in America." 
"Who can take an O'Neal otT the team and him not be missed?" Williams said. "Where they will really miss him is defensively. Hamminck is a pretty good offensive player but now teams will not have to be 
a record six no-hitters. 
He thought he had just gotten a good deal after asking for the card at $12. 
"I bought it f~ir and square," he said. 
Joe Irmen, owner of Ball-Mart Baseball, contends the teen­ager took advantage of a har­ried and inexperienced clerk who had no idea how much the card was worth. 
"We were taken advantage of, in a way. The boy knew what the card was worth," he said. 
Irmen said he was selling the card on consignment and was to pay its original owner $1,000 for it. He still owes $500, he 
Wednesday, March 6, 1991

page 14 The Observer 
-
Eighth time a charm for Wolves in 94-85 win over L.A. 
Johnson said. "At least last Sunday we played hard. But(AP) -The Minnesota 
that's what's so upsetting aboutTimberwolves aren't likely to 
this one -we didn't work
win a playoff game anytime hard."
soon, so this will have to do. 

Campbell made six of his firstThe Timberwolves beat the seven shots in the second half
Los Angeles Lakers 94-85 
after a 3-for-9 start. His basketTuesday night, the first time in with 1:20 remaining gave theeight tries that Minnesota de­Timberwolves an 86-80 leadfeated the team that won five after the Lakers cut a 10-pointNBA titles in the 1980s. 
deficit to four.

When it was over, the Sam Mitchell had 15 pointsTimberwolves danced and and a season-high 14 reboundshugged each other on the court. 
for the Timberwolves, who
"We're all very happy. You saw outrebounded the Lakers 42-35.
the way we celebrated after the "Anytime you beat the Lakers,
game," forward Tod Murphy 
it's a great win, especially this
said. "It was obviously an 
year," Mitchell said. "They'veimportant game for us." 
got a great team."

About the only one who 
But Johnson said they didn't
seemed reserved was 
show it Tuesday night.

Minnesota coach Bill 
"We're not supposed to loseMusselman, who never beat the this way," he said. "We gotLakers in eight previous games outhustled, outrebounded and
as coach at Minnesota and 
beat to loose balls. Look at theCleveland. 
stat sheet and we got no play"Anytime you can hold the from nobody, one through 12."
Lakers to 40 percent shooting, 
Hawks 139, Nuggets 127
you're playing great defense," Musselman said. 
Atlanta won its 22nd consecu­Former Laker Tony Campbell tive game at home, outscoringscored 11 of his 25 points in the Denver behind Spud Webb's ca­
third quarter and Tyrone 
reer-high 32 points.

Corbin added 23 points for the Dominique Wilkins and John
Timberwolves, who won for Battle each scored 24 points
only the third time in 13 games. 
and Wilkins had 18 rebounds,The defeat marked the second including nine on the defensive
two-game losing streak this 
end in the third quarter, tying aseason for Los Angeles, which team record. The Hawks neveron Sunday lost to Houston 104­trailed after an 11-0 start.
95. 

Orlando Woolridge scored 32Magic Johnson led the Lakers points for the Nuggets.
with 32 points, but was dis­
Bulls 104, Bucks 86
gusted with the team's effort. 

Michael Jordan scored 30"It's one of the first games points against Milwaukee as
when we were outworked, and Chicago won its 21st consecu­we couldn't afford that now," 
UK celebrates great season 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-With and pompons, participated in a the regular season over and no pep rally inside Memorial place to go, Kentucky held its Coliseum. own party to celebrate a self­"I can't imagine anyone not 
proclaimed championship. wanting to come here as a re­
Five fire engines carried the cruit after seeing this," said waving players, coaches and Woody Hayes of Middleton, cheerleaders on a 30-minute Ohio, who drove 120 miles to parade Tuesday. The school's attend the rally. pep band led the way around five crowded blocks near the campus. 
/

UK athletics director C.M. 
tive home game. 

Scottie Pippen added 17 points and 10 rebounds as the Bulls won for the 14th time in 16 games and improved their record to 42-15, best in the Eastern Conference. 
Chicago, which trailed by 13 points in the first quarter, got six points from Pippen in a 23­15 spurt that gave the Bulls a 10-point lead in the third quar­ter. The Bulls extended the margin to 91-72 midway through the fourth quarter. 
The Bucks were led by Jeff Grayer and Dale Ellis, both with 19 points. 
Cavaliers 113, SuperSonics 111, 
OT 

John Morton tied the game with 0.8 seconds left in regula­tion, then hit an off-balance 15­foot bank shot at the overtime buzzer as Cleveland snapped Seattle's five-game winning streak. 
Morton, who scored a career­high 21 points, also converted two free throws to tie the game at 111-111 with 21.4 seconds left. 
The Sonics tried to hold the ball for the last shot, but Eddie Johnson's errant pass gave the Cavaliers the final shot and Morton scored again. 
Brad Daugherty led the Cavaliers with 27 points and Larry Nance had 25. 
Johnson scored 28 points, Ricky Pierce 27 and Shawn Kemp 23 for the Sonics. 
Kings 100, Warriors 92 

Rory Sparrow scored a career­high 32 points as Sacramento ended a nine-game losing 
streak by defeating Golden State. 
The Kings, losers of 26 con­secutive road games but now 15-12 at home, led 50-45 at halftime and never trailed in the second half. 
Sparrow, who made 13 of 22 field goals, scored his previous high of 30 points on Dec. 11, 1982, as a member of the Atlanta Hawks. 
Chris Mullin scored 25 points and Tim Hardaway 20 points for the Warriors, who shot only 
33.3 percent from the field. 
Spurs 104, 76ers 99 
San Antonio, which lost twice last week after blowing big leads, erased a 17-point first­quarter deficit as David Robinson had 33 points and 16 rebounds. 
Robinson gave San Antonio a 98-95 lead with a pair of free throws with 2:32 left. After an exchange of baskets, Robinson blocked Rick Mahorn's shot with 1:20 left to secure the vic­tory. The Spurs won despite a 3 1/2-minute span without a field goal in the fourth quarter. 
Hersey Hawkins scored 29 points for Philadelphia. 
Suns 107, Knicks 102 
Phoenix continued its streak­busting ways as Tom Chambers had 32 points and Kevin Johnson 29. 
The Suns, who previously stopped winning streaks of 16 games by the Los Angeles Lakers, 11 games by Detroit and Portland, and seven by Boston, ended New York's longest winning stretch of the season at five. 
The Knicks, also looking for their first three-game winning streak at home this season, trailed just 101-100 with 1:09 to go after a jumper by Patrick Ewing, who scored 36 points. But Johnson scored on a drive, Dan Majerle on a jumper and Chambers on two free throws to seal it. 
Rockets 112, Nets 100 
Sleepy Floyd scored 27 points and Akeem Olajuwon, in a sub­stitute role since returning from injury, had 18 points and 12 rebounds as Houston won at home against New Jersey. 
The Rockets led only briefly until opening the fourth quarter with a 10-2 spurt that gave them a 92-87 lead. 
Otis Thorpe scored 22 points for the Rockets, while Mookie Blaylock scored 22 points for the Nets, losers of 10 consecu­tive road games. 
Heat 116, Clippers 113 
Sherman Douglas scored 27 points, including a go-ahead layup with 11.9 seconds to play, as Miami won at home for its team-record 19th victory. 
Los Angeles led 113-112 with 
24.4 seconds left after an 11-1 run sparked by two three-point plays by Charles Smith and a 3­point shot by Ron Harper. 
After Douglas spun inside to give the Heat the lead, he knocked the ball away from Danny Manning to set up Glen Rice's basket at the buzzer. 
Miami, a third-year expansion team, won 15 games in its first season and 18 in its second. It is 19-39. 


~ 
/ 
" 

""' 
Newton promised a parade two weeks ago if Kentucky finished  ~­ Ihe£lbsener__  -Ihe~Obsener­----­--­ 
with the best record in the  
Southeastern Conference·. The  
Wildcats had the best SEC record at 14-4 while compiling a 22-6 overall mark.  is currently accepting applications for the following position:  is currently accepting applications for the following position:  
He had been miffed by a deci­sion by the SEC to put Kentucky  Advertising Clerk  Advertising Representatives  
at the bottom of the standings  
with an asterisk denoting its ineligibility for the· champi­ For more information contact Julie  For more.information contact Julie  
onship because of NCAA and  at 239-6900 or 283-1291  at 239-6900 or 283-1291  
SEC probation.  
After the parade, about 4,500 fans, many carrying cameras  \..... ....  ~  '  ..I  

~ • SMC • ~ 
~ HAVE A GREAT CA~P'!,~~~~~EAR7 ~ 
• Come to en informetion • 
.SpRING BREAK 1 
meeting.Merch7et

: • 7p.m. in Hagger Geme Room • 
• for some nelpful t1ps! : 
: --from St1C Student Government : 
....... 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
ACROSS 31 Clear, fresh air 49 Saroyan play, with "The" 
33 Queues 

6:30 p.m. Workshop: "Intimacy-Contact and Conflict: 1Commercials 
54 Palindromic title
And What's Alcohol Doing In a Place Like This?" Mary 4 Unfermented 34 Princess's 
sleeping 55 King or

Cecilia Roemer, coordinator of senior/alumni programs. grape juice 
problem producer
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored a Altercation 35 Loaf 56 Crocus, e.g. 
by Year of Women Committee, University Counseling Cen­13lnst.in ter and the Office for Alcohol and Drug Education. Cambridge 36 Godfrey· 57 Sharp mountain 
instrument ridge

14 Classy 7 p.m. Film: "The Exorcist," Annenberg Auditorium. 15Weird 37 Rugged rock 58 Pismires Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 16 Fruit of the 38 Donkey, in Nice 59 ld --(that is) apple family 39 Luce subject ao Defective car 
9:15 p.m. Film: "Blow Up," Annenberg Auditorium. 17 "Thi~k nothing 41--Vance, 
61 Attention getter 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. fictional sleuth 
&2 Some coli.
18 Monads 
42 Refined 

linemenThursday 19 Choicest; best emotion 
22 Rip to pieces 44 Kind of can or 
12:05 p.m. Travel Videos at Noon Series: "Sanibel Is­cloth DOWN
23 Greek letter land. Florida," ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Edu­45 --Johnson,
24 Morse-code 1 Love, in Milano 
cation. Sponsored by Educational Media. word explorer 
2Readily25 Items for table 4& A--sheep's 
available setters clothing 3 Candlemaker's
LECTURES need 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Gender Roles: Cultural vs. Biologi­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Condescend 5 British dandy
eal Factors," Phyllis Dolinhow. University of California, Berkeley. Room 116 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by 
a United whole 25 Feather 41 "Aias!­
49 Leguminous

Gender Studies. 7Tale about 
Yorick" plant

Eros, e.g. 2&Compare 43 Source of a 50 The same, to 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Doing What Comes Naturally? The aJones, Pebble, 27 As to 
sauce Seneca

Culture and Biology of Gender," Phyllis Dolinhow, Univer­etc. 28 Fun date 
46 Sausage 51 Hullabaloo

sity of California, Berkeley. Galvin Life Science Audito­9 Adorn again 29 River duck 
47 "-Tuesday 52 Cravings

rium. Sponsored by Year of Women Committee, Gender 
10 Buck chaser 30 Starchy food ...": 1969film 53 Feed-bag fillersStudies and Anthropology Department. ........_;4--'-...j.:-:.-+"'-~ 11 Ineffective one 31 Waves, to 48 Sparks or 54-demer 
...;....j-~+::­

12"-Girls," Pedro Beatty (cruise blues) MENU Kelly movie 32 Grey of the westerns
~::::+.::+.:~ 16 One-hundredth 
Answers to any three clues in this part: Abbr. 37 Not so warm 

puzzle are available by touch-tone .;+:=+=::+=-l 20 Silent 39 Epiphany trio phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each
Notre Dame 

.=..a...:....L:..:....L::..J 21 "-homo" 40 Hawaiian thrush minute). 

Oven Fried Chicken Noodles Romanoff Baked Chicken with Herbs Swedish Meatballs in Mushroom Sauce  
THE FAR SIDE  JAY HOSU:H  CALVIN AND HOBBES  
FROM  THe:  DIREC:R>K  OF ROC30Pn.OF  ~IS W\UE 8c:oK IS t\Jll ~ T\-\\~G<; mf\T 1-\A\Jt. \C) BE "-cctf'ltD ON. rM~ ! IT'S f>.. Rl::.l\GI0\'-1.1  

BILl WATTERSON 
A.t.ID Il-l 11-\t. flS f>.. \1\f>.TI-l P\lSLIC SCI\OO..S A~EI'5\, r tto 1£9;. O.U. S\-\00\..D 8£ EXCo<,£D 
f>. LAW~~R. HIOM n\\5 . 

"Uh-oh, Lenny ... It's the sllmelord." 



Master of the Mind 
March 7 at 8 pm
•
ID 

Theodore's 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 
Wednesday, March 6, 1991 
page 16 

Final column devoted to "Things We'd Like to See'' 
New baseball stadium, supportive hoop fans among many hopeful changes for Irish sports 
The purpose of this column throughout the last year has been to give some off-beat exposure to issues in Notre Dame sports. During the course of the last 12 months. we have learned some things about the athletic program that we would like to see ScoH Brutocao changed, and others we Irish Items would like to stay the same. 


Spurning sentimentality, we would like to write our final Irish Items column not with an exclamation mark, but more with an unpretentious period. Therefore, we present a modest list of "Things We'd Like to See" in Notre Dame's athletic program. 
Things We'd Like to See: 

•A 
baseball field on campus that doesn't resemble the Bermuda triangle. 

•A 
football ticket policy in which you don't have to present your ticket, I.D., another form of I.D., a birth certificate, any recorded birthmarks and your mother to get into Notre Dame Stadium. 

•A 
football ticket sales policy in which students can buy tickets to games anywhere in the country, regardless of whether they're within a three-hour drive. 

•A 
baseball with the Notre Dame insignia sold at the Bookstore. 

•Affordable 
prices at the Bookstore. 

•No 
censorship of Bookstore Basketball team names. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball tradition to go on forever. 

•A 
student body that actually supports the basketball team. 


•A 
positive remark from a student about Digger Phelps. 

•The 
men's basketball team to surprise their next opponents with sky-magenta-colored uniforms. Either that or something in a nice mauve. 

•Anyone 
using the term "Domer" to be hanged instantly. 

•Other 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference teams to drop convents, convalescent homes and St. Louis from their opponent schedules. 

•The 
MCC to build up its reputation and receive an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament in every sport. 

•Olympic 
sports at Notre Dame to get some respect and support. 

•Lou Holtz to stay at Notre Dame. 

•
Lou Holtz to say something more about opposing teams than they could be a top-10 team and that their helmets are very pretty. 

•LaPhonso 
Ellis to be academically eligible for basketball for a whole (gasp!) season. 

•The 
NFL to repeal the "in the grasp" ruling so Chris Zorich can follow through on his wish to lop off the heads of mangy quarterbacks. 

•Chris 
Zorich to become as famous as Ricky Watters. 

•The 
people in charge of security at football games to get a raise. 

•The 
people in charge of security when students camp out for football tickets to relax or go away. 

•The 
fencing terms "foil," "epee" and "sabre" to be changed to something more intelligible, like "Tom," "Dick" and "Harry." 

•Notre 
Dame to move its campus to a more temperate climate, like Antarctica or Siberia. 

•Free 
champagne, oysters and caviar at the Fisher Regatta. 


•A baseball stadium more deserving of the name 

Observer File Photo Men's fencing is only one of many successful Olympic sports that have not received overwhelming fan support. 
"Jake Kline." 
•Male 
student football "experts" to save their invective toward the players until they can look the players in the eye and tell them in person. 

•Band 
members to show some class during basketball games. Either that or be funny. 

•The 
student body to realize that we have nationally­ranked teams besides the football squad: women's basketball, baseball and men's tennis. 

•The 
people who follow Notre Dame sports to realize that it's a diversion, it's for fun, and it's nothing to get worked up about. We watch for entertainment, don't we? 


NCAA officials return to UNLV for investigation of former recruit 
"They've pulled our kids outta practice, and some of the kids have missed classes, but the visit is not that unusual," said Tarkanian, who has sparred with the NCAA since the early 1970s when Long Beach State went on probation for viola­tions during his coaching tenure. "I didn't like it, but it's something I've learned to ex­pect. They did that to us all last year." 
KVBC-TV reporter Dan Burns said the investigators talked Monday with Johnson, Ackles, H Waldman and Stacey Augmon. He said Ackles was O'Bannon's designated host during an official visit to UNLV on Feb. 18, 1990. 
"There are no problems with O'Bannon, none whatsoever," Tarkanian said. 
Booke said the O'Bannon visit was not among 29 charges listed against the university in December. 
Tarkanian said NCAA investi­gators also talked to him on Tuesday about "another school," which he wouldn't identify. 


LAS VEGAS (AP) -NCAA in­vestigators were back on the UNLV campus this week, with reports indicating the visit fo­cused on failed efforts by the defending national champions to recruit California prep star Ed O'Bannon. 
Jerry Tarkanian, coach of the No. 1-ranked Runnin' Rebels, said he had learned to expect the visits by NCAA investiga­tors. 
"They've been in 16, 17 times this year," Tarkanian said Tuesday. "That's their job. There's no secret that they've interviewed our people." 
The Rebels, 27-0, have been banned from 1992 TV and postseason play because of NCAA sanctions growing out of a battle with Tarkanian dating back to the mid-1970s. They also face 29 new allegations in a series of charges handed down by the NCAA in December. The university is ex­pected to answer those charges by May 1. 
KVBC-TV reported the latest visit by the investigators in­volved the recruiting of 
O'Bannon, who gave a verbal commitment to attend UNLV, then opted for UCLA after the Rebels were hit with an NCAA penalty last summer. 
O'Bannon, who injured his knee in a practice before the season started, has redshirted the season on a medical provi­sion. 
The visit by enforcement in­vestigators comes just days after the NCAA lifted, then quickly restored, the eligibility of four UNLV players who vio­lated NCAA rules by leaving un­paid a total of $129 in room service bills during recruiting visits. The four reportedly in­cluded staters Larry Johnson and George Ackles. 
NCAA spokesman Jim Marchiony declined comment on the visits, saying pending in­vestigations are not discussed. 
"The timing of investigative work is within the exclusive discretion of the NCAA en­forcement staff," UNLV legal counsel Brad Booke said. "The university has no advance no­tice or control of investigative work." 
Money matters plague training; Henderson expected back 
(AP) -Jack Armstrong and Joe Oliver of the Cincinnati Reds and Texas pitchers Kevin Brown and Kenny Rogers didn't like their contracts, so they picked up and left spring training on Tuesday. 
The significance of the walkouts will not be clear until Wednesday, the mandatory reporting date under the collective bargaining agreement. That also is the date American League MVP Rickey Henderson is expected to report to the Oakland Athletics. 
As teams prepared for exhibition openers on Thursday and Friday, the offseason money battles went on. The players, all of whom fall short of arbitra­tion eligibility, were renewed at salaries of their team's choosing. 
"I don't want to start playing for the money," said Armstrong, renewed for $215,000. "It's the principle. I feel that's a burden I have to bear for the players who will follow me." 
Armstrong, who started the All-Star game for the National League last summer, was seeking about $100,000 more than the Reds gave him. Oliver, re­newed for $185,000, thought he should have gotten between $275,000 and $280,000. 
"I'm not happy with the treatment I've gotten," Oliver said. "I just wanted to make a statement." 
Brown had his contract renewed by Texas for $327,500, a 50.2 percent raise. Rogers was renewed at $287,500, a 105.4 percent raise. 
"This is not the way to build a relationship for the future," Brown said. ''I'm not demanding all the money in the world. I don't think that way. I just wanted a chance for the market to show what a fair number would be." 
If the players fail to return on Wednesday, they can be fined. 
"It's not the right approach," Reds 
manager Lou Piniella said, "but then they have to make their own decisions." In other spring training news on Tuesday: 
-Players on the Athletics are taking up a collection for Henderson, who thinks he's underpaid at $12 million for four years and wants to renegotiate. 
A collection bottle was placed near the entrance to the trainer's room and it was full of greenbacks of varying de­nominations by the end of Tuesday's workout. 
On the bottle was a handwritten message: "Rickey Appreciation Fund. Not Tax Deductible." 






