
1 
.THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · 

halts sales of fuel 
DIIAIIHAN. Saudi Arabia (AP) artillery drove 30 intruders Iraqi President Saddam the Iraqi defense of Kuwait. -Allill<l warplanes and the USS back into Kuwait after they Hussein. Giant Air Force B-52 bombers Missouri's mighty guns crossed into Saudi Arabia. But a "He's got to say, 'I'm going to struck Republican Guard shattf~red the morning peace news pool report from the front get out of Kuwait,' now, fast," positions in six raids, the from Baghdad to Kuwait's em­said U.S. Marine officers gave a Bush said. command said. battled shores Tuesday. llard­different aecount: Iraqi troops It said U.S. warplanes also prnssed Iraq banned sales of struck twice across the border, The U.S. chief executive said continued focusing on resupply lwating oil and otlwr fuel to its overrunning a Syrian position in he was sending the Pentagon's lines to the Iraqi troops in dtizens. who grew ever more one attack, being pushed back top leadership -Defense Sec­Kuwait and southern Iraq, desperate under a mid-winter in the second. OPERATION retary Dick Cheney and Gen. striking a 25-truck convoy in siegn. Colin L. Powell -to the war one instance late Monday. Bri,
DESERT STORM
Baghdad said 42S civilians Behind the scenes in Mideast zone this week to assess how tish officers reported strikes on 
• Iraq cuts fuel I page 8
havn been killnd thus far in capitals, meanwhile, diplomats the U.S.-led offensive, now 20 an ammunition storage site what the official radio con­and government leaders con­• Ground war? I page 9 days old, is progressing. south of Baghdad, and a rail­demned as "savage" bombing. ferred on Monday's bid by Ira­• Terrorism I page 9 The U.S. command reported way junction and rail bridge in 
Up on the desert war front, nian President Hashemi Rafsan­another 2,000-sortie day in the southeast Iraq, among other the Syrian contingent in Opera­jani to mediate a Persian Gulf tive. In Washington, however, Desert Storm air war, and said targets. tion Dnsert Storm dashed with peace. President Bush said he had American warplanes took spe­They said one-third of the key tlw Iraqis for the first time. The Soviets and Turks sig­seen no Iranian peace plan and cial aim again at the dug-in Re­bridges in Iraq have been de­
Ttw Saudi military said Syrian naled support for Iran's initia-saw nothing to negotiate with publican Guard, backbone of stroyed. 
Pope greets Walesa promising that church will defend freedom 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -In a of a Christian nation at the be­when pregnancy is the result of meeting of Poland's two favorite ginning of its history." rape or incest. sons, Pope John Paul II greeted He hailed the role of Walesa Walesa has said he would sign Lech Walesa on Tuesday and and Solidarity, which was the the bill into law. It is now before told him the church stands first free labor movement in the the lower house, with a vote ready to defend Poland's new­Soviet bloc. expected in April. found freedom. "The world must not forget Walesa met in the evening 
that it was the workers who with Italian Prime Minister 
Walesa, who first met with played the principal role in Giulio Andreotti, and both John Paul a decade ago as head overthrowing a system that was urged leaders in the Soviet of the fledgling Solidarity labor supposed to have defended Union's Baltic republics to move union, returned in a state visit them and identified with their cautiously in their quest for as the country's newly elected interests," John Paul said. independence. president. John Paul also raised the is­
Walesa said he wanted to sue of abortion now being de­Andreotti said the indepen­thank the pope and the church bated in Poland, telling Walesa dence movement "must move in for support in the struggle that the church defends human tune" with that of the interna­against the former communist rights "from the moment of tional political scene "in order regime and that it was "not by conception until natural death." not to put into a crisis" the chance" that he chose the Vati­Abortion was permitted and policies of Soviet President can for his first state visit. widely practiced under the Mikhail Gorbachev. 
prayer 
John Paul, visibly pleased communists. But the Senate has Walesa added the Baltic during an exchange of passed a law that would permit countries "must express them­
A guitar player shares his talent at a charismatic prayer service. 
speeches, described the visit as abortions only in cases when a selves during these crises the "pilgrimage of the president woman's life is in danger or wisely and with gradualness." 



Moscow's Popov speaks at ND on Soviet condition 
By BETSY PUNSALAN Popov also came to discuss News Writer some of Moscow's problems with American authorities such as Secretary of State James Soviet Pn-1sident Gorbachev Baker, former Secretary of should ally himself and his State Henry Kissenger, and the Hightist Ctmter Coalition with mayors of New York City and democratic forces, Moscow City Los Angeles, he said. He also Coundl Chairman Gavriil Popov conducted business talks to said last night in Stepan Center. learn about the U.S. Medicare The lncture, titled "What's system and to discuss building 
Heally Going on in the Soviet industrial plants in Moscow. Union," was part of Notre Popov noted that his country Danw's Student Government has been led by the Rightist ledure series. Center Coalition, headed by 
Contradicting publicity circu­Mikhail Gorbachev, since 1985 lating on Notre Dame's campus, and through the summer of Popov 11xplained that "I am not 1990. "At first, (Gorbachev) the 'mayor' of agreed with our (democratic Moscow-'mayors' do not exist forces)... but in September, it in my country. I am the turned out that his conserva­Chairman of City Council." tives didn't want to make any 
Popov, Hussia's leading liberal concessions. Gorbachev yielded frne-market economist, and his to pressure and cancelled his interprnter, prominent Soviet plans and tried to restore the journalist Boris Notkin, are in Rightist Center Coalition. the U.S. for a twofold purpose, "Though many issues have he said. been solved (under Gorbachev's 
''I'd like to give America a leadership)... this coalition has fuller notion of what happens failed to solve all of our 

The Observer/J. Rock 


in my country," Popov said, ex­problems," Popov said. plaining that America's mass Popov illustrated five princi­what problems to resolve dur­other experiment on a country ing Soviet economy. Accordingmedia does not give a "many­ple differences between his ing Perestroika. According to which for the past 70 years has to Popov, Gorbachev is tolerant 
sided view of our President's own democratic policies and the pro-democratic Popov, gotten very tired of experi­of a "variety of kinds of prop­actions. That's why some those of Gorbachev and his Gorbachev and his conserva­ments." erty, but (feels) the main and events in my country seem un­conservatives. tives want to create a new so­Secondly, Popov explained the dominant kind should be the expected and inexplicable." The first issue centers on cialism which would "make an-differing approaches to chang-· state one," adding that Gor­
see POPOV/ page 4 

~oo t "< V"1~1.,rl<:~-' -.H::h:><=~nh<:>W 
page 2 · The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Best valentine is good enough to eat 
Early '80s men and------­women knew how to woo a valentine. 
Elaborate plans were devised to make sure the flowers arrived on February 14 at precisely 8 a.m., before that 
"significant other" heads Christine Walsh 
off to school or the office. 
Dinner reservations were Asst. News Editor 
made for 7:30 p.m. (you 
plan to show up fashionably at 7:45) in the 
most socially correct restaurant in town. The 
evening was capped off with a little dancing, perhaps a bottle of champagne with fresh strawberries (they're expensive this time of year and low-cal too). and some sort of jewelry (preferably rubies). 
What could be more perfect? Yes, we really had it together in those carefree days of up­turned polo collars, Tom Selleck mustaches and Love Connection. 
Where's the romance in all of this? Are these things really signs of our undying love and burning desire? Probably not, but if you don't give your honey something, you can be sure you will not have another SYR date as long as you live. 
Fear not, brave Romeos and Juliets. This is the '90s, and highly scientific studies con­ducted by frustrated graduate students have revealed what all valentines far and wide have always longed for. 
The one and only thing everyone desires for Valentine's Day comes in three varieties: milk, semi-sweet and dark. ("White chocolate" does not even deserve it's name and is not worth its weight in lard.) 
It has long been thought that chocolate is nothing more than a substitute for affection, but this myth has been ill-conceived. According to Sandra Boynton: "...it is not the lovelorn sufferer who seeks solace in chocolate, but rather the chocolate-deprived individual who, desperate, seeks in mere love a pale approximation of bittersweet euphoria" (Chocolate the Consuming Passion, 1982). Chocolate was meant to be shared (how about that for romantic?) 
Some may fear giving the gift of chocolate because it is fattening and just plain bad for you. These myths are obviously rooted in that early '80s overly health-conscious oat bran mentality. In fact, nothing is more physically and mentally soothing than a simple Hershey's Kiss. There is no room for stress when the body is filled with Toblerone. Besides, there are 520 mg of calcium in an eight ounce chocolate bar. 
Rumor has it that those involved in the S&L debacle had previously been involved in a chocolate-deprivation experiment in college, the effects of which are now widely observed. I even understand Saddam Hussein has never hummed a few bars of Nestle Crunch. The Swiss, however, have the world's highest GNC (Greatest National Chocolate)-and when was the last time they went to war? 
And what if your Valentine is one of those freaks of nature who eat vanilla ice cream and angel food cake? Get them chocolate and show them the error of their ways. 
-Ih-e-0-bs.e~Tier­
----. -.L-=Y~ ­
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's  Staff  
Sports  News  
Systems  Chris Coooney  Joe Moody  
Marl< Sloan Mike Murphy  Production  Christine Stephan  
Kristin Lynch  Accent  
Graphics  Lisa Bourdon  Paige A. Smoron  
Pat Midden  John Fischer  
Jake Frost  VIewpoint  
Rich Riley  Ad Design  
Circulation  Doug Bronsing  
Bill O'Rourke  Scoreboard  Traci Hupp  
Matt Novak  Rene Ferran  Kevin Hardman  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
•HARARE, Zimba we -Leaders of a seven-nation African bloc opposed to white-led South Africa arrived Tuesday for a meeting to consider new strategies following Pretoria's pledge of radical political reforms. Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, a leading crusader against South Africa's racial policy of apartheid, is scheduled to open a one-day summit Wednesday of the so-called Frontline States. Besides South Africa, the group will review recent diplomatic efforts toward peace between the governments of the former Portuguese colonies of Angola and Mozambique and the guerrilla armies waging war against them. Organizers said the group will also discuss the economic impact of the Persian Gulf War on the region. 
rison 

, a y -Two Palestinians convicted of helping the hijackers of the Achille Lauro cruise ship have been released from prison early and expelled from Italy, their lawyer said Tuesday~ The two are Mohammed Issa Abbas, a cousin of fugitive Palestine Uberation Front leader Mohammed (Abul) Abbas, and Youssuf Sa'ad, said Genoa attorney Gianfranco Pagano. Pagano said both benefitted from an Italian law allowing a reduction of two years for eligible convicts at Christmas time. They were released from prison on Christmas Eve and ordered to leave Italy within 15 days, he said. The two departed for Algeria about two weeks later, Pagano said. A wheelchair-bound American who was a passenger on the 
OF INTEREST 
•ATIENTION 
ALL SENIORS: Are you interested in doing a year of volunteer work? If so come meet Ken Kin­ley of Christian Appalacia to discuss the many options available to you. Mr. Kinley will be in the library con­course from 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and in the esc from 1-5 p.m. today, Wednesday, February 6. 

•THE 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT/VICE PRESIDENT DEBATE will take place on Wed., February 6, 7:00p.m., in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. This is your chance to question the candidates. 

•SAINT 
MARY'S WOMEN FOR ENVIRONMENT will meet tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Holy Cross Parlor. If there 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 5, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
187.40 ..0. .19
291.60 Million S&P COMPOSITE 343.05 .(}, .88 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,730.69 {7 5.70 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD -t $2.70 to $ 368.60oz. 
SILVER .fb 1.0¢ to$ 3.839/oz. 

City Athens Atlanta Baghdad Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston 59ndianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow 
New York 
San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington,D.C. 
H 
43 73 50 64 51 60 52 56 82 63 62 35 61 48 74 16 68 29 69 55 64 46 62 61 51 52 70 
L 
28 50 31 41 27 55 26 34 73 
59 
45 30 52 34 70 -04 51 19 34 
49 
40 25 44 50 36 37 42 
Italian liner, Leon Klinghoffer, was shot to death by a hijacker and his body dumped into the Mediterranean during the October 1985 hijacking. 
NATIONAL 
•REDDING, Ca Tt. -Police are investigating the death of a 4 1/2-month-old boy who died of meningitis after his parents tried to heal him by prayer instead of taking him to a doctor. Police say Jordan Cory Northrup died Thursday after the parents and members of their church attempted through six days of illness to heal him by laying on hands and praying. 
Belifrous ~rb banned in schools 
•PH ADEL HIA -Principals of the city's public schools have been told they can fire teachers who come to work wearing Christian crosses, Muslim head scarves, Jewish yarmulkes or other religious garb. A federal appeals court last year upheld the Philadelphia School District's decision to prohibit a Muslim teacher from wearing a head scarf to school. The district said its aim was to preserve "an atmosphere of religious neutrality," and on Jan. 9 sent a memo telling principals they could take action against teachers who wear religious garb. This was defined as "any garment, headwear or accessory which is identifiable as religious in nature." Some teachers were angered by the policy, which they say violates their First Amendment rights. 
are any questions, please call Teresa Lynch at 284-5403. 
•AN INTRODUCTION TO RESUME EXPERT presentation will be given today from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. The computerized resume preparation system will be de­scribed and detailed instructions given on how to use the program to prepare and enhance your resume. 
•YEAR OF THE WOMAN COMMITIEE and the Law School are sponsoring a lecture, "Sexual harassment at Work and What to do About it," by Barbara Fick, As­sociate Professor of Law, at the CSC Coffee House at 12: 15 p.m. Soup and bread lunch will be served. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

•In 
1895: Baseball legend Babe Ruth was born in Baltimore. 


• 
In 1933: The 20th Amendment to the Constitution-the "lame duck" amendment-was declared in effect. 

• 
In 1952: Britain's King George VI died; he was succeeded to the throne by his daughter, Elizabeth II. 

• 
In 1987: Reporter Gerald Seib of The Wall Street Journal was released after being detained six days in Tehran and accused of spying for Israel. 

• 
Ten years ago: The Labor Department reported the nation's unemployment rate for January 1981 remained unchanged from the month before, at 7.4 percent. 


Wednesday, February 6, 1991 The Observer page 3 



Three professors discuss issue of women and film 

"Women and Film" was the subject of a lecture yesterday. Professors, Hilary Radner, Ava Collins and James Collins spoke about women and film through the ages. 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
Society's constantly changing view of women is cultural and not necessarily natural, according to Ava Collins, a professor in Notre Dame's de­partment of communication and theater. 
Movies provide a much more complicated view of women, and an array of possibilities of femininity, none of which should be taken for granted, added Hilary Radner, also a communication and theater professor at Notre Dame. 
Radner and Collins spoke Tuesday along with James Collins of the same department in a panel discussion titled "Women and Film." Taking an historical approach, they ad­dressed two key issues; the essentialism of how femininity is defined, and the extent to which movies provided contra­dictions in this definition. 
Radner discussed films of the early 1900s, stating that be­cause there was a large immi­grant audience at this time, films emphasized " immigrant women battling the New World. .. with urbanity as the antago­nist." "In the 1920s, we be­came a society organized 

It's More Fun Than A Barrel OfLos Monos*. 
*Although only the Spanish te:r.rn. for monkey is e:xpressed, there vvill be many different cultures represe:n.ted. at the FestivaL 
around consumerism," she 
said. Femininity thus became 
defined in the woman's ability 
to consume, with films provid­
ing a "veritable handbook" of 
what to buy in terms of fash­
ion. 
Ava Collins next discussed 
films of the 1930s and 40s. 
During this period, she said, 
the "maternal melodrama" be­
came popular. These melodra­
mas dealt with problems de­
fined as female, such as 
domesticity and family life. 
Ava Collins focused upon films containing mother-child relationships and scenarios of separation. "These films make it evident that being a mother doesn't come naturally at all," she said. 
Lastly, James Collins dis­cussed films made from the 1950s to the present. He said that the 50s involved both a "presentation of the hyper­feminine woman," and the American nuclear family, "still together, but coming apart at the seams." 
With the 60s came the emer­gence of the countercultural film, in which women w~re "either insignificant, or moni­tors of male sexual liberation," Collins said. "This made the liberation process of the 60s a decidedly one-sided affair," he added. 
In films of the 1970s, confi­dent women faced situations which would have formerly de­stroyed them, said James Collins. However, "feminist messages were cloaked in such a way as they were not directly threatening to male audiences," he noted. 
Women were no longer a tar­geted audience for film-makers in the early 1980s, as the focus shifted to teen flicks, said James Collins. But women have returned as a target audience. Movies now include old images being reproduced, Collins said. He asked, "Can ironic rearticu­lation of the image be that which diffuses the power of the image?" 
He concluded by observing that there is no homogeneity or uniformity of women's images, and that women must juggle them, possibly processing or manipulating them to their own needs. 
The discussion was spon­sored by the Friends of the Li­brary. 

American Heart a•a_ Association V 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
Senate passes resolution on gender 

Winnie Mandela, wife of African National Congress leader, Nelson Mandela arriv.es at the Johannesburg Supreme Court on Monday, where she appeared on kidnapping and assault charges. 
By KATE MANUEL News Writer 

The Faculty Senate, at its Tuesday meeting, passed a resolution recommending that it be the policy of the University to use respectful and gender­inclusive language in its com­munications. 
The recommendation, which also called on all members of the University community to use gender-inclusive language in their work and social life, had been sent to the Faculty Senate Ad Hoc Committee on Inclusive Language from a university ­wide committee on women chaired by Kathleen Cannon. The recommendation will now return to this university -wide committee for further discussion. 
Ellen Weaver, Professional Specialist in Theology and chairperson of the Ad Hoc Committee on Inclusive Lan­guage, said, "We were given something to work on, and we realized we had to put an or­ange and a cactus in the same resolution." 
Gender presents a problem in our language that is very dif­ferent from that which it pre­sents in other languages, and this problem is inherited with our language, said Weaver. 
Nouns in other languages have a specific gender; English nouns have no gender but are often viewed as being male, she said. 
"We're 10-15 years behind the others (other universities) in making this resolution," said Paul Conway, Associate Profes­sor of Finance and chairperson of the Faculty Senate. 
"If we cannot agree on a statement this simple, then maybe we should not be pass­ing a resolution about the use of language," said Leo Despres, professor of Anthropology. 
The Faculty Senate also dis­cussed the resolution for in­cluding a date/acquaintance rape policy in Du Lac that the Campus Life Council sent to Pa­tricia O'Hara, Vice President of Student Affairs. 
"O'Hara committed herself to those issues raised (by the Campus Life Council resolu­tion)" said Sandra Harmatiuk, Director of the Basic Learning Skills Program and co-chair­person of the Faculty Senate Student Affairs Committee. 
The resolution, which ad­dresses Administration insensi­tivity to rape, the lack of com­munication with rape victims about support services, and making rape statistics more public, could be complicated by a new security act concerning the reporting oT campus crimes, said Harmatiuk. 



Popov 
continued from page 1 
bachev sees private property as an "inevitable evil." 
Popov said his democratic forces agree both state and private property can co-exist, but "the basic property should be a private one." 
The thil"d issue Popov dis­cussed concerned the destatiza­tion in the Soviet Union. Gor­bachev feels that privatization should occur at the expense of the people. Conversely, Popov believes "human beings who have worked for the state for decades have the right to get their share for free." 
Fourth is the issue of chang­ing state machinery. According to Popov, it is not enough for Gorbachev and conservatives merely to "proclaim" a multi­party system; "We should con­fiscate Communist Party prop­erty and distribute it equally among all parties." 
The last issue involved the conflicting views over the ethnic construction of the Soviet Union. Popov said c.onservatives are willing to "preserve (the union) at any cost even if force is to be used," while he and his democratic forces feel the "union of nations should be preserved, but only if it is voluntary." · 
Popov went on to discuss three alternative scenarios that could occur in his country in response to the current Soviet regime. 
First is the possibility of each republic disintegrating and se­ceding from the union, said Popov. Some individual re­publics might solve their prob­lems on their own, he said, but most republics believe that act­ing jointly would be in all the 
On January 30, 1991 an item in the Of Interest column incorrectly stated the University Counseling Center needed volunteers for counseling. It should have stated they need volunteers for Counseline. The Observer regrets the error. 
Yesterday's article covering Spike Lee's lecture stated the film "Do the Right Thing" was released by Paramount Pictures. It should have stated Paramount Pictures was supposed to release the film but did not after Lee refused to change the film's ending. Universal Pictures did release the film. The Observer regrets the error. 
republics' best interests. Popov said this possibility would occur only under serious agitation in the Soviet Union. 
A second possibility could oc­cur if present conservative forces fail in their attempts, said Popov. This would result in some turning to military dicta­torship, while others would join the democratic forces proposed by Popov. 
A final alt1'lrnative is a parallel center of leadership between the conservative and the demo­cratic forces. 
Student Body President Rob Pasin, acting for South Bend· Mayor Joe Kernan, presented Popov with a key to the city of South Bend, and gave Notre Dame sweatshirts to both Popov and his interpreter Notkin. 
The lecture series is spon­sored by the Advisory Councils of the Colleges of Arts and let­ters and Business Administra­tion. 

The Christian Conscience: 
Ethical Perspective on War and Peace 
When: Thursdays, beginning February 7 Time: 7:30 p.m. Where: LaFortune Student Center 
Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
February 7  WAR AND PEACE: THE BIBLE AND THE KORAN Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., Hesburgh Professor of Arts and Letters.  
February 14  FORMATION OF CONSCIENCE:  CATHOLIC TRADITIONS  
Professor George Lopez, Faculty Fellow, Institute for International Peace  
Studies; Associate Professor of Government and International Studies.  
February 21  PEACEMAKING: THE GOSPEL IMPERATIVE Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Program of Liberal Studies.  
February 28  PEACEMAKING~ NON-VIOLENCE AND THE CATHOLIC TRADITION Sr. Elena Malits, C.S.C., Professor of Religious Studies, Saint Mary's College.  
March 7  PEACEMAKING: PEACE AS THE FRUIT OF JUSTICE  
Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Campus Ministry  
Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator, Center for  
Social Concerns.  
March 21  FORMATION OF CONSCIENCE AND CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION  
Dr. Todd Whitmore, Assistant Professor, Theology.  

·This series of reflections, from a perspective of faith, addresses some of the principal ethical dimensions of war and peace. 

These thirty-minute presentations, co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns, will be followed by informal discussion and dialogue. 
Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
The Observer page 5 

Vacation area films to be shown to cope with cold 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Writer 
Anyone looking for a way to escape winter in South Bend during February and March can go to the Center for Con­tinuing Education on Thurs­days during lunch. 
Educational Media is spon­soring Travel Videos at Noon in an attempt to help students, faculty , and staff escape the winter doldrums. Sister Elaine DesRosiers. director of the series, says vidPos of well known vacation spots will be shown. 
DesRosiers said the program was started by several Educational Media employees who had been on trips to these places. They purchased professional tapes and thought showing them "would be great for cold winter days." 
During the month of Febru­ary, one can visit The Grand Canyon, The Great Smokey Mountains, Yellow Stone Na­tional Park. and Sea World. 
The films ,which are free and open to the public, can be seen in Room 14 of the Center for Continuing Education on Thursday's at about 12:05. A brown bag lunch is suggested. 
DesRosiers also said that during March anyone can bring in videos to be shown, provided they are commercial tapes. If anyone is interested they should contact Carla Llnhoff at 239-5465 to scheduling a showing. "(This is) just a chance for people to do something different," she said. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

'li'~~~DEC9rtJ?J~~ 
~F 
t U'>IIWA (II\. II I· f()f( lllf '>llllll l >I ·\MIIIIC i\N l •\IIH >Ill I'>M 

An nou nee s. the 19 91 Cu shwa Lecture on RELIGION and PUBLIC LIFE MS. MARGARET o•BRIEN STEINFELS 
Editor of Commonweal will speak on 
THE RElURN OF THE CATHOLIC LIBERAL 
Thursday Febr. 7) 1991) 8:00 PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium the Lecture is open to the public and free of char~. 




Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 6. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager 

Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTS Manager Controller Art Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 



Senior says 'be informed' on war 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
"I think that it is essential to look at all sides (of this war). But don't let the National Enquirer be your bible," senior Peggy Abood said of the impor­tance that students remain ac­curately informed of the events in the Gulf. 
At the second Peace Support Group meeting at Saint Mary's, Abood shared some different views in that she doesn't "feel called to protest" but does "feel the need to be informed," which is the sole objective of the group. 
The meeting revolved around the discussion of the article "Why We Are Stuck in the Sand," letters from servi­cepeople, and personal opinions of the war. An immediate con­sensus was reached that the well-written article proves how little most Americans know about the war. 
Senior Sarah Carroll singled out the last paragraph as an excellent summary of the Gulf War. "An earlier regional player, Benjamin Disraeli, once sarcastically remarked that you could tell a weak government by its eagerness to resort to strong measures. The Bush administration uses strong measures to ensure weak gov­ernment abroad and has enfee­bled democratic government at home. The reasoned objection must be that this is a dangerous and dishonorable pursuit, in which the wealthy gamblers have become much too accus­tomed to paying their bad debts with the blood of others." The statement was from the article by Chris Hitchens. 
H a LebanPse back-

For dcrtails (119) ID-8530 
ground, Abood said that she has some concept of the war but that her family will not say they are for or against the war. She would like to see the "United States play the role of a mediator. The Middle East needs a non-Arab (nation) as a mediator. We're there because what Iraq did is wrong. (But) should the United States be the world police?" 
On the topic of the termina­tion of Saddam, Elizabeth Noel, professor of English, said that "if we get rid of Saddam and liberate Kuwait, other countries will unite (against the Allies) and we'll have another problem. We'll never get out of there. Once we set ourselves up to play this role (of the world police), it's hard to get out." 
Ann Clark, professor of philosophy, is concerned that "Americans are naive. We think that we're special and have special moral insight." Mary Turgi, assistant director of Campus Ministry, added "we have the illusion that we're controlling all this by our tilts and nods. But we're really playing the fool." 
To substantiate these com­ments, Carroll reminded the group of Bush's statement: "We're on schedule," yet he cannot tell the public when the war will be over. In addition, one of the letters from the ser­vicemen said that he is still un­clear about why he is there. 
According to Clark, "(Americans) are terrified of land battle. The Pentagon never tells the truth during a war. We have the habit of believing (what we are told) but the Pen­tagon can't tell the truth be­cause they think it's a threat to national security." 
The group felt that most people are for military control of the press so that the public does not get upset. The military doesn't wan.t to tell families what it's really like, was the general idea. However, head­lines such as "Showdown in the Gulr can be dangerous, said Carroll. 
Noel has experienced some desensitization to the war, pos­sibly due to the media coverage. "When listening to (some) men talking, they treat it as a substitute for football. They're almost exhilarated. It's like a game," she said. 
Tamsin Bomar, professor of English, stated that a motive of the United States in the war is simply "American honor. The United States has lost ground and (we are trying to get) reestablished as a world power. We need military superiority as a mediator." 
Ideally, this is a good coneept, Clark said. "We ought to be mediating, but when I listen to actual people, I'm not hearing that we want to have people feel secure in their homeland and with their neighbors. It sounds like all we can do well is make guns." 
Bomar made reference to recent announcement of the possibility of using nuclear weapons and the fact that every weapon that has ever been made is used. "Does the thnmt of nuking Iraq scare you?" she asked. "(It would be) a nice, quick end.'" 
The Peaee Support Group will be showing "Faces of the Enemy" on Monday at 8 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge and the n~xt meeting will be on Tuesday at 5 
p.m. in room 11 in Holy Cross Hall. 
Future sessions will include two more scheduled films, lec­tures on Middle East History, Press and Authoritative Opin­ion. the Draft, Baghdad Bomb­ing, the UN's Involvement, Eco­nomic Issues in the US and World, Linguistic Terminology, Peace Protestors Myths, and a debate. 

GLORY BE! AARON'S 2l 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY BABE,Mom 
~~The Castle & Co. Is Your 
New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 

• 
New Wolf Tanntng Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 





page 6 
Iceberg Debates First Round 
Affi.rmatiye ~.e..t..s Negative 
~E..t..s 
Flanner I 7817 8 Pangborn 
80/73 P.E. 57/62 Lewis 2 74/84
0 2
Flanner II 57/57 Grace I 0 41/41 
B.P. 7 4 I 7 8 Cavanaugh 0 73177
2 
Sorin 80/75 Fisher 2 86/77
0 Stanford 0 74/74 Badin 2 86/86 St. Ed's 2 82/80 Zahm 0 69/7 4 Grace II 2 76/77 Carroll 0 71/65 Alumni 76/85 Lyons 80/76 Knott 85/79 Dillon 91/75 Morrissey 2 84/84 Siegfried 0 70/66 Keenan 2 Bye -Did Not Debate 

Man accused of killing neighbor with spiked Coke 
BARTOW, Fla. (AP) -Eight of Coca-Cola bottles in October years of arguments over loud 1988 with thallium nitrate -a music, yelping dogs and other highly toxic heavy metal -and aggravations escalated into secreting them into his neigh­murder when a man tried to bors' kitchen. commit "the perfect crime" by poisoning his neighbors' Coca­Peggy Carr, 41, lapsed into a Cola. a prosecutor said. three-month coma and died 
after sipping the soft drink. 

Jurors were to receive final Four other members of her instructions from Circuit Judge family were poisoned, though Dennis Maloney today before not fatally. deliberating charges against George Trepal of first-degree If Trepal is convicted, prose­murder, six counts of attempted cutors intend to· seek the death first-degree murder and penalty. product tampering. "What we have here is a man 
who thought he was so smart 

Trepal, a 42-year-old com­he could commit the perfect puter programmer and MENSA crime," prosecutor John Aguero high-IQ club member, is ac­said in closing arguments cused of spiking an eight-pack Monday. 

'ff!. !!IV!., -f} n!)(~!,·?;·1; ('~ fW.m ~J9·H1; ~~t%t?i~ ~ft?~~~) 






fiVN!D~ 
at S.AiliT 11ARY I s 


Feb 7 ~ 7-9p _m_ 
Ha.ggar 

The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1991 

Judge bans 'suicide machine' 
PONTIAC, Mich. (AP) -A she said. "The reasons why Dr. "She's out of the dark ages,"judge said Tuesday Dr. Jack Kevorkian has been unable to Fieger said. "A judge in this Kevorkian was more interested find employment in any accred­state has no right to grant in­
in getting publicity than in ited hospital are made patently junctions on moral issues." helping the terminally ill, and clear .to the court." 
He also said he would seek 
she banned him from again us­return of Kevorkian's suicide 

ing his drug-injecting "suicide Kevorkian, 62, a retired 
machine from the prosecutionmachine." pathologist from Royal Oak who under a January order by Mc­
Oakland County Circuit Judge last worked at a hospital in Nally. Kevorkian has said before Alice Gilbert made permanent 1982, was charged in December the ruling he planned to donate her earlier order that with first-degree murder in it to a museum. Kevorkian refrain from assist­Adkins' death. Clarkston 
County Prosecutor Richard ing anyone with suicide. District Judge Gerald McNally Thompson said his office would 
On June 4, Kevorkian helped dismissed the charge, saying return the machine to Janet Adkins, 54, of Portland, Michigan has no law against Kevorkian now that the case Ore., use his machine to inject assisted suicide. was over, with the clear under­herself with a fatal drug dose. Tuesday's ruling was on a standing he was banned from Adkins suffered from civil suit brought by prosecutors using it again.Alzheimer's disease. to prevent Kevorkian from Thompson said the thor­
using the machine again or oughness of Gilbert's 34-page"As a physician, Dr. building another one. ruling would make it easy to 
Kevorkian was morally, ethi­"Boy, do I feel terrible," defend on appeal.cally, professionally and legally Kevorkian said after hearing obligated to adhere to the cur­Gilbert's ruling. He said he "It reiterates the interest of rent standards of medical prac­would abide by her order not to the state in preventing suicide tice," Gilbert wrote. Doctor-as­help anyone else commit -sui­and the sanctity of life,"sisted suicides clearly violate cide. 
Thompson said. "It returns those standards, she said. But, "I can still speak out and some sanity to the issue." In a scathing opinion, Gilbert promulgate the idea," he said. Gilbert issued a preliminarysaid Kevorkian showed a pat­"There's still free speech, isn't injunction against Kevorkian tern of seeking recognition there?" four days after Adkins' death. 
through "bizarre behavior" and 
She presided over a civil trial in showed "unabashed disregard Kevorkian's attorney, Geoffrey early January. and disrespect for his Fieger, said he would appeal As a pathologist, Kevorkian profession." the decision promptly, either to lacked the training to treat an 
"His real goal is self-service, U.S. District Court or the Alzheimer's victim, the judgerather than patient service," Michigan Court of Appeals. said. 

THE 
'I 

NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 

Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
Touchdown. NeXT's newest and most affordable machine is here. Stop in for a hands-on demon-~ srration of the revolutionary NeXlstationncomputer. And go where no computer has gone before. '9' 



Sqphornor·~ ~arent 
vJeekenu 1 able Si(Jn-uos
..) I 


Feb. 118x12
,..,.. ,..-) 

-t:J-r]p .rn. Hr1 n n r1 r-· Pr1 r· lnr· 
. . -;L :! --. . . -. 
Games~ Food~ Fortune Tellers br·ing ID 
and 110RE' 


Wednesday, February 6, 1991 The Observer page 7 


Pledges from allies to aid in containing U.S. spending 

M. · G J h . Ap Photo 
rssoun ov. o n Ashcroft, (from left) ~resrdent ~ush, Washington Gov. Booth Gardner and White House 
Chref of Staff John Sununu attend the wrnter meetrng of the national Governor's Association Monday at th 
Whrte Ho~~e.Bush announced "we are going to have to fight together"to win congressional approval ~~ 
transfer brllrons of dollars to domestic programs to the states. 

Gorbachev orders referendum 
MOSCOW (AP) -Mikhail Gorbachev stepp1~d up his war of words with Lithuanian lead­PrS on Tuesday by rejecting their independenee poll set for Saturday and ordering instead a Kremlin-controlled referen­dum. 
Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsb1~rgis insisted the non­binding ballot would be held as planned. 
"Lithuania is in observance of law ... and views the president's decree as impermissible politi­cal interference in the matters of thfl sovp,reign Lithuanian state," he said in a statement read by spokeswoman Rita Dapkus 
The decree was sure to in­crease tension in the republic in the days leading up to the vote, which is to occur four weeks after. Soviet troops stormed several buildings in a crack­down that left 14 people dead. 
The decree followed Gor­bachev's order for new talks . with the Baltics and seemed a dear attempt to force Lithuani­ans to seek independence only on the Kremlin's terms. The de­eree, however, did not threaten any action if the poll was held, indicating only that the Kremlin would not accept its results 

"The poll and the attempt to call it a 'plebiscite on the future of the Lithuania state' (are) le­gally invalid," his decree said, according to the state news agency Tass. 
The poll "cannot be seen as anything other than an attempt to block ... the holding of a na­tional referendum on the ques­tion of preserving the Soviet' Union," said Gorbachev. 

Pre-game peci for all men's and women's NO Basketball games 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE! 
USE AFTER 


~ 
Q9 
~ :=--J 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 
I• 
' 
' 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
dent Bush said Tuesday that 
$51 billion in pledges from al­
lied countries should enable the 
United States to contain its own 
spending for the first months of 
the Persian Gulf War to $15 
billion. 
But on Capitol Hill, 
Democrats complained that the 
United States has received little 
of the promised monetary help 
and pressed the administration 
to aggressively collect it and 
seek more. 
White House budget chief 
Richard Darman told Congress 
that he was confident the 
money would arrive and said 
Bush's campaign for the assis­
tance has gone better than an­
ticipated. 
Darman visited the Senate 
Budget Committee, where he 
testified on the $1.45 trillion 
fiscal 1992 budget Bush un­
veiled on Monday. He talked of 
the president's plan to shift 
some spending within 
Medicare, education and other 
programs to poorer 
beneficiaries from those better 
able to pay, but spent much of 
his time parrying questions 
about war costs. 
"We have extraordinary con­
tributions, way more than peo­
ple had expected," Darman told 
the budget panel. 
Questions over the adequacy 
of foreign assistance have been 
simmering in Congress for 
weeks. Lawmakers have in 
particular asked whether Japan 
and Germany, which boast two 
of the world's burgeoning 
economies, have contributed 
enough. Germany has pledged 
$6.6 billion and Japan has 
promised $9 billion, Darman 
noted. 
At the White House, Bush told 
reporters that when combined 
with the $15 billion for the war 
included in his budget, the $51 
billion in promised foreign help 
should be sufficient. 
"I am confident that what we 
have in there will take care of 
it," he said. 
Darman provided the budget 
panel with updated cost figures 
for the war. He said the price 
tag for the troop deployment 
through Dec. 31 was $11.1 bil­
lion, up from an earlier $10 
billion estimate. 
For that period, he said the allies have pledged $9.74 bil­lion, of which $5.32 billion in cash and $1.3 billion worth of supplies and services have been 


11'-..::==~ 
received. Nations that have 
promised contributions include 
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Japan, 
Germany, South Korea, and the 
United Arab Emirates. 
He said that for the first three 
months of 1991, the allies have 
promised $41.78 billion. 
"Most people would say $41.8 
billion for a quarter is going to 
turn out to be a very, very sub­
stantial portion of the actual 
costs incurred," Darman said. 
He also said that Ameriean 
officials have told contributing 
countries that the United States 
will seek additional aid if the 
fighting extends beyond March 
31. 
Some Democrats said, how­ever, that some allies were still not doing their share. Budget Chairman James Sasser, D­Tenn., specifically cited Japan. 
"This is a very sound invest­ment for them," Sasser said. "If they can protect their oil supply for $9 billion and no loss of Japanese lives, I'd say that's one of the greatest bargains in the history of mankind." 
Bush's budget for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 received mostly mild criticism from the lawmakers, who in past years have been more hostile to ad­ministration spending ·plans. 
A major reason for the muted response is that Bush and law­makers agreed to spending limits in last fall's five-year deficit-reduction deal. For the most part, the only questions left are over how to divide the money up. 
Sasser complained that the document did little to combat the recession or to boost social services, and promised to rear­range some of its priorities in the coming weeks. 
Another lawmaker, Sen. Kent Conrad, 0-N.D., called the spending plan's proposal to re­duce farm aid "an assault on rural America." 
Darman touted the budget's plan to limit many benefits for the well-to-do and make more money available for the poor. For example, support would be eliminated for farmers earning more than $125,000 annually, and more education grants would be shifted to students with the greatest financial needs. 
"Don't take poor people and start them out in life with an enormous burden of debt," Darman said. 
:.o:::::..-'11 

SPRING BRtAK 
VA~AMA CIIT liUCil 
fLCl!l[d ~ 
Spend Spring Break in ~~ Panama City for Only$199 
f 

~ Bus transportation and sevenf' nights beach front hotel included. 
' 
~  
' t~  Sponsored by N.D. Student Union Board and Travelmore. Stop by  '  
~~,1 desk on 2nd Floor LaFortune or call 239-7668 for more info.  '  
'  ' 

~---------------------------------­
---~---~ 
OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 8 Wednesday February 6, 1991 
Iraq cuts off sale of fuel to citizens, reports radio 



Jinsnaya 
. l:rayeh 
· · --#Y Baisour 
~~-y. "·~harbiyeh 
Tuffah JJ.. 
HoumineY*Sarba 
Smiles 
Arab Saleem*
5km AP/Carl Fox 

Iraql's overrun 
.


SYnan troops 
I.n fI. rst battI e 
NORTHERN SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Iraqi troops overran a Syrian position and fired ar­tillery at another in the first battle between forces of the two nations, U.S. Marine offi­cers said Tuesday. 
A Marine spokesman said the Iraqis apparently occupied the Syrian position in a surprise push Monday night into the Syrian sector in northeastern Saudi Arabia, but the Syrians turned back the second assault. 
Only sketchy details were available, and it was not known whether Americans or other al­lied troops responded to the Iraqi attack. 
Syria generally has been more sympathetic to Baghdad than have other Arab nations in the U.S. led coalition. It has said, for instance, that it would not participate in direct attacks against Iraq. 
The Syrians have 19,000 sol­diers in Saudi Arabia, including an armored division with about 270 T-62 tanks. 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq said Tuesday that it had cut off the sale of fuel to its citizens, already suffering since the war's beginning from a critical scarcity of heating oil, cooking gas and gasoline. 
In announcing the suspension of fuel supplies by the Iraqi Oil Ministry, official Baghdad radio said: "For organizational purposes, it will suspend the provision of fuel to citizens as of 4th February until further notice." 
The suspension covered oil for heat, gasoline and other fu­els, the radio report said. It apparently allowed residents no chance to stock up against the winter cold. Temperatures have been in the 50s during the day, and routinely dip into the low 30s at night. 
Residents in Baghdad also are living without electricity and with only sporadic water service. Private cars already had been limited to about four gallons of fuel every two weeks, 
making horsedrawn carts a 
prized means of transport to ferry goods and shoppers to market. 
Radio reports also reported the continuing allied bombard­
ment of Baghdad, President Saddam Hussein's hometown of Tikrit, and 35 other sites. 
Iraqi radio said Tuesday night that Iraq had struck back, firing its Al-Hussein missiles, a modification of the Soviet­designed Scud, on Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. 
"In retaliation for the U.S. administration's crimes ... our heroic missile forces this evening dealt a destructive strike with Al-Hussein missiles at the Dhahran base, the sym­bol of violation ·and disdain of the sanctity of the holy land," the statement said. 
Associated Press reporters in . Dhahran, however, said the sirens that warn of incoming missiles never sounded Tues­day. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz said 108 civilians had been killed and 249 wounded in air raids on residential areas of Iraq between Jan. ·26 and Sun­day. That would raise the total number of civilians killed in the allied attacks to 428 and the number of wounded to more than 650, according to official Iraqi figures. 

The bombing Monday night and early Tuesday forced resi­dents from their beds into pub­lic and private shelters and sent columns of fire arid smoke into the air. 
Witnesses living on the out­skirts of the capital reported two large explosions at 12:35 and 12:40 a.m. One witness, who refused to be identified, reported seeing a pink flash in the sky. "A second later, I heard the explosion," he said. 
Local residents said the sec­ond explosion apparently was at a military site in the area. According to security and mili­tary regulations, the exact site could not be reported. 
Explosions echoed across the capital, and blasts were heard in many sections of the city. Some people said at least four missiles fell during the night. 
A resident of the western part of the city said the explosions shattered the windows of his house. "My house was deeply shaken," he said. 
Travelers arriving from Tikrit, the president's home­town about 95 miles north of Baghdad, said it took intensive fire Monday night and early Tuesday, as it has since the war began. 
Those coming from the southern city of Basra said it was heavily shelled Monday. Columns of smoke and fire were seen in many parts of the city, which is Iraq's main port and a supply center. 
The civilian casualty figures were contained in a letter Aziz wrote to Iraqi newspapers. The previous casualty figures, 320 killed and more than 400 wounded, were in a Jan. 27 let­ter to U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
In his letter, Aziz said 37 civilian areas and towns were hit. Targets included television and radio stations in Baghdad and the provinces, government buildings in the capital, an irri­gation dam in western Iraq 170 miles west of Baghdad, com­munication centers, commercial areas, homes, and trucks and cars on highways, he said. 
Allied commanders have said they are not targeting civilian sites. 

AP Photo

In the desert camp 



Selling Saddam 
AP Photo 

Indians ot New Delhi line up to buy posters of Iraqi President 
Saddam Hussein in a predominantly Muslim neighborhood in the 
old city on Monday. 
EASTERN SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Increasingly heavy al­lied bombing has cut the effec­tiveness of some of Saddam Hussein's ground troops by more than half, and ·even harsher punishment is planned in the days ahead, a senior U.S. Air Force officer said Tuesday. 
The relentless U.S.-led bomb­ing also is cutting supply lines to Iraqi troops at "a pretty fantastic rate," said Col. John McBroom, commander of the First Tactical Fighter Wing. 
In an interview with The As­sociated Press and two other news organizations, McBroom said more bombing runs are being aimed at Saddam's troops each day. The allies are able to concentrate on the troops because they are easing up on earlier targets, including Iraq's nuclear and chemical facilities, he said. 
"Most of our sorties now are geared toward attriting out the people in Kuwait," McBroom said, using the military euphemism for killing. "We're taking a very heavy toll on the troops.... (The) Republican Guard south through Kuwait, most of the packages are going in that area." 
But in Washington, another 
U.S. military commander em­phasized that bombing of ear­lier priority targets like nuclear and chemical sites will continue as allies try to cripple Iraq from the air. 
"Obviously, we don't think we've gone far enough because we continue to pound his logis­tics, we continue to pound his forces that are in contact, we continue to pound the Republi­can Guards and we continue to revisit NBC sites -nuclear, bi­ological and chemical -and other strategic targets that 
Increased allied bombing weakens ground troops 
comments. 
McBroom, whose wing flies F­15 escorts for allied bombers, said the success of air attacks on Iraqi troops had convinced him that any plans for an allied ground assault should be put on hold. 
"The air war is absolutely getting to him," McBroom said. "He's getting pounded.... I would hope we do not go in on the ground until we have al­most completely obliterated him from the air." 
As McBroom spoke, several of his F-15s were scrambled from an major air base in Saudi Arabia, presumably in response to Iraqi air activity. McBroom said Iraq's air force has been flying infrequently since the war began and that such scrambles were uncommon. 
McBroom said allied war­planes "rule the skies very easily" and are beginning to inflict heavy damage on Sad­dam's ground forces, including elite Republican Guard divi­sions. 
On Monday, another Air Force officer, Maj. Bob Baltzer, said in the days before a ground war the air campaign would be almost solely focused on attacking ground forces, with the goal to cut their fighting power at least in half. He said the battlefield would be mapped in boxes to help pre­vent allied bombing in sectors being heavily traveled by allied ground forces. 
"We have a very good idea of what the targets are and where they are," Baltzer said. 
McBroom, too, said pilots have detailed information on Iraqi targets. He wouldn't say if the allies want to cut Iraq's effectiveness by half before at­

A Somali refugee sits on his luggage after fleeing the war in Iraq, in the Ruweished refugee transit camp  need to be attacked," Lt. Gen.  tacking.  
close to the Iraq-Jordan border on Monday  Thomas Kelly told reporters,  Still, he said: "We're headed  
when asked about McBroom's  in that direction for sure. There  








OPERATION DESERT STORM
Wednesday, February 6, 1991 page 9 


Israelis arrest 10 Israeli Arabs on charges of spying for Iraq 
JEHUSALEM {AP) -Israeli  raignment within a few days.  them to Baghdad with an agent.  
security forces have arrested 10  Last week, Sari Nusseibeh, a  A police spokesman said that  
Israeli Arabs on charges of  41-year-old university professor  acquiring published material  
spying for Iraq, police said  and leading Palestinian activist  was not a crime, but "points to  
Tuesday. It was the second case  in the occupied West Bank, was  hostile intent," and supports the  
of Israel detaining Arabs on spy  jailed under "administrative  espionage charge.  
charges since the war began.  detention" for three months.  The statement said the Arabs  
The Arabs. from the northern  will be charged with belonging  
lsnwli town of Acre and three  The latest suspects were ac­ to a hostile organization, con­ 
villages in the Galilee, were ar­ cused of photographing strate­ tact with a foreign agent and  
rested over the last two weeks,  gic and military installations  spying.  
police said in a statement. More  and forwarding information to  
arrests are expected, police  Baghdad on where Iraqi mis­ Nusseibeh was accused of  
said.  siles·have struck in Israel.  "collecting security information  
Iraq has fired dozens of mis­ for Iraqi intelligence, especially  
"Tlw mmnbers of the spy ring  siles at Israel since the Gulf War  after the missile ~ttacks on Is­ 
are suspected of being recruited  began Jan. 17 and at least four  rael."  
by an activist from the Palestine  Israelis have died in the  Administrative detention al­ 
Liberation Organization's  attacks.  lows authorities to incarcerate  
mainstream Fatah group, a  suspects deemed dangerous to  
former Israeli Arab linked with  Israel has censored journal­ state security without bringing  
Iraqi intelligence now living in  ists' reports on the location of  them to trial.  
Iraq and Egypt," the statement  missile explosions to avoid  Nusseibeh's jailing drew an  
said.  helping Iraq fine tune its aim.  appeal for his release from  
The statement said the sus­ Amnesty International and  
It did not give the name of the  pects also were instructed to  other human rights groups. A  
alleged recruiter or of any of  buy journals and magazines  judge has reduced Nusseibah's  
the suspects. They were to be  pertaining to Israeli military  detention from six to three  
brought before a judge for ar­ and security facilities and send  months.  Injured Iraqi  AP Photo  

This photo, received from a local Jordanian newspaper in Amman, reportedly shows an Iraqi woman allegedly injured in one of the al­lied air attacks on Baghdad recently. 
Leftist guerrillas dynamite car killing three people 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -Leftist spokesman reached by tele­guerrillas on Tuesday dyna­phone confirmed the attack was mited a car outside a security against the office of Pesavisa, company contracted by the U.S. the Peruvian subsidiary of a Embassy in Lima, Peru, killing U.S. security company, Wack­three people and seriously in­enhurst. Pesavisa is under con­juring seven, police said. tract to provide security for 
Police said they found leaflets both the U.S. and Canadian at the scene signed by the pro­embassies, the spokesman said. Cuban Tupac Amaru Revolu­Three security guards died tionary Movement condemning when rebels drove by and the United States for its role in threw at least 22 pounds of the Persian Gulf War. dynamite and fired machine 
gun bursts at three diplomat's 

Also Tuesday, a bomb ex­cars parked in front of the ploded outside a bank in Beirut, company, police said. Lebanon, in the 14th bombing in the Lebanese capital linked Police said the explosion, by police to the Gulf War. And which took place at 1:15 p.m., in Saudi Arabia, police arrested blew out windows and de­
AP Photo 

an undisclosed number of sus­stroyed several cars and a state 
Air Force pilot Captain David Meinhart, of Plattsburgh, NY, leaps up for a pre-flight inspection of the 
pects in a sniper attack on U.S. bus outside the company office, 
engine of his KC -135 tanker on Monday afternoon at an air base in central Saudi Arabia. The tankers are 
military personnel. located in the commercial dis­
being used to refeul fighters for Operation Desert Storm. 

In Lima, a U.S. Embassy trict of Miraflores. 


Bush admits that ground war may be necessary 
WASHINGTON {AP) -Presi­decisions of sending American He said the Soviet Union "will how things are going, on what Bush said he will rely on Ch­dent Bush said Tuesday he troops into battle. ''I'm sleeping never go back, no matter what the future course of events eney, Powell and Schwarzkopfdoubts Iraq's army can be ex­quite well, as a matter of fact." happens, to the totalitarian, might be." for advice about a ground war pelled from Kuwait without a Bush said, "I know what I've closed society days of the Cold Bush said he looked forward but that "I would bear the full ground war and announced he got to do," but he added, "I War." to hearing their views on responsibility for that very dif­is sending Defense Secretary can't tell you I don't shed a tear The decision on starting a whether air power alone would ficult decision." Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin for families and for those that ground war is probably the defeat Saddam. "My own view He warned the Iraqi leader to Powell to the Persian Gulf for a might be lost in combat." biggest question facing Bush as is I'm somewhat skeptical that consider "very, very carefully"
"firsthand status report." Unequivocally, Bush said he commander in chief. It raises it would," the president said. the retribution he would faee if 
Bush, at a news conference, would not reinstate the draft. the specter of a bloody conflict The Cheney-Powell trip will chemical weapons were used said "it would be a lot easier to And he said he did not intend to with well-equipped, battle­be the first top-level mission to against the allies. see a successful conclusion" if propose an income surtax to hardened Iraqi troops and the the gulf since the war beganSaddam llussein were ousted or help pay for the war. risk of a sharp increase in Jan. 17 with the bombing of Bush said the U.S.-led allies killml, but he stressed that the American casualties. Iraq. Bush said the mission did were going to unprecedented
U.S. objective was still simply to He said the $15 billion in his Many in Congress -Republi­not signal a ground war was lengths to spare civilian casual­drive Saddam's forces from new budget, when combined cans and Democrats alike -about to be launched. ties and damage to holy places. 
Kuwait. Any other world leader with $51 billion in promised say Bush should wait a few The only ground battle so far "We do not seek Iraq's destruc­would have yielded by now foreign help, "will take care of months to give the air war more -the fighting in Khafji last tion, nor do we seek to punishrathnr than submit his country it." time to work. week-was "a humiliating de­the Iraqi people for the deci­to relentless bombings and Declaring himself pleased Bush said Cheney and Powell, feat" for Saddam, the president sions and policies of their lead­missile attacks, Bush said. with the conduct of the war, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs said. "There were devastating ers." 
Spelling out rigid conditions Bush said, "I don't believe it's of Staff, would go to Saudi losses on the Iraqi side, no He accused Saddam of relo­for any cease-fire, Bush said going to be long and drawn Arabia late this week to confer question about the amounts of cating military functions such Saddam would have to under­out." with Gen. Norman armor that were killed, and re­as command and control head­
take "a credible, visible, totally The war dominated the 36-Schwarzkopf, the commander grettably the loss of life." quarters into schools and other convincing withdrawal" and re­minute news conference. The 
of allied forces. Eleven U.S. Marines were civilian areas for protection.turn Kuwait's exiled leadership only other question was killed in fighting touched off by Bush brushed aside an offer 
to power. 

whether President Mikhail Pentagon spokesman Pete the Iraqi attacks across the from Iran to mediate the war. "lin's got to say, I'm going to Gorbachev still holds the reins Williams said Cheney was "not Kuwait-Saudi Arabia border, But he took pains to praise that get out of Kuwait, now, fast." of power in the Soviet Union. going over to give Gen. seven of them by a missile from nation, which has declared it­
Twenty days into the war, Bush said Gorbachev "is still in Schwarzkopf some instructions. an American warplane. Allied self neutral and claims to have Bush portrayed himself as being charge" and that the United ... They're interested in the military officials say Iraqi ca­impounded some 100 Iraqiat peace with himself, com­States will continue to deal with opinion firsthand from Gen. sualties were heavy but have warplanes that have soughtfortable with the momentous him. Schwarzkopf and his staff on refused to be more specific. safe haven. 

-r -----~,--­

Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, February 6,1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor News Edltor .••...............•.•.. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .......•..••••. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor •.............•••.... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor••..•..•......... Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •••••••••••••.•..•.......Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
' ' r r 'r  3"a.ke  
Non-Catholics have right to express opposing views  

Dear Editor: 
As a non-Catholic attending Notre Dame, I was insulted and angered by Jon Beane's narrow interpretation of this university's academic mission (The Observer, Jan. 22). I can only say I am glad the Adminis­tration does not share Mr. Beane's anti-intellectual views, for if it did I would not be here. 
This University is not a clois­ter. Many who attend Notre Dame and many who teach here are not part of the Catholic Church. Those who come here, Catholic and non-Catholic alike, must be prepared to accept discussion of views with which they may not agree. In addition, because this University intentionally attracts students of all faiths, it has an obligation to provide an open academic forum beyond the dogma of the Catholic Church. To do otherwise is effectively to disenfranchise non-Catholics who consider themselves part of the church although they may not agree with all of her teachings. 
Mr. Beane's narrow definition of "academic freedom" is sim­ply not freedom at all. To say that at a Catholic university "many points are already 
DOONESBURY 
known to be true" ignores the fact that many people at Notre Dame disagree with this truth, and they have every right to do so. Mr. Beane seems to say that non-Catholics and their ideas should not be welcome at Notre Dame. If he is truly calling for the expulsion of myself and other non-Catholics because of our heretical views, let him say so. I do not think most students or faculty members would agree with him. 
There are many ways for Notre Dame to emphasize its status as a Catholic university without resorting to the draco­nian censorship Mr. Beane pro­poses. Statements such as those made by Mr. Beane only serve to make non-Catholics feel as if they are second class citizens at Notre Dame. We all, Catholic and non-Catholic alike, have the right to be here and the right to express our views. Upholding the "Catholicness" of this university at the cost of free and open academic discus­sion would only cause the University to fail in its mission of teaching. 
Daniel Myers Off-campus 
Jan.30,1991 

Dear Editor: 
The heat of the summer can be a very troublesome time for students. Some are searching for an internship that will catapult their chances of landing an incredible job when they graduate. Perhaps some are getting more and more depressed over the fact that they are not sure what they are supposed to be doing in life. Last year, around this time, I was weighing my options as well. I decided to do a Summer Service Project. It was definitely an experience that has affected every facet of my life. 
I volunteered eight weeks of my summer to work with adolescents at a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center. I entered the summer with the attitude that I was going to help these children. In the past, I have had my share of problems and confronted my share of peer pressure, yet I have never taken a drug in my life. I guess I wanted to show them that it was cool to "Just Say No!" But when I started to witness and talk with these children, I understood that it wasn't simply a matter of "yes" and "no." 
The problems of these children far surpassed their problems with drugs. They were all extremely poor. Most of them carne from broken homes. Most had serious crime problems. Though they were between the ages of 13 and 17, it was hard for me to keep in mind that they were only children. They experienced things that I would consider very adult issues. Some were taking heroin intensely by the time they were six. Many had their first sexual experience at the age of eight. Most had been arrested by the time they were nine. 
It is easy for a person to forget about the reality of the problems that exist in society when they don't have to deal with them everyday. It is easy to not really understand the concepts of loving parents, warm clothes and financial security. The best way for me to describe my experience is "Eye­opening." I finally awoke to view reality. I read the newspapers and I saw the statistics. 
I thought I understood the hardships of adolescent drug users and homeless and abused women and children. But last summer these numbers became faces. I became aware of things that I had always taken for granted-my family, my education, my opportunities. Last summer I became aware of how insignificant my problems were compared to problems of these children. Last summer, I felt the heat of humanity as I escaped from myself for eight weeks. 
I'm not sure if these children received anything from me. But I know that I received so very much from them. I believe that experiencing hardships first hand through a Summer Service Project will undoubtedly change the way you view many things. The deadline for sign­ups is Feb. 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Peter P. Meringolo SSP Task Force 
Jan.31,1991 

Tutoring program really makes a difference 
day a week commitment, and the program provides trans­portation. Some things are worth making the time for. When you see these children and how their faces light up when you enter the room, you will know this is one of those things. If you are interested in participating in the program, call Patty at 283-4570. 
Patty Wogan Co-President Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Jan.30,1991 

through twelfth grades. As a tutor, you have the chance to really make a difference. All it takes is three hours a week, a caring and sharing heart and a little patience. 
The children in this program need your academic, social and emotional support. NSHP has tutoring centers at 18 schools and after-school centers all over South Bend, but there are still many, many children that we aren't able to reach. In order to expand the program, we need your help. It is a two 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
HeY, MARK, I /A/ANT YOIJ tAU. EJ(){)P9/f; ANI? 6/V/3 HtR. A Mef35Af3e, a;tiY:'!' 
f38T lH/5 I?OIA/N... 
I 

Dear Editor: 
Most of us have been blessed with incredible educational opportunities, the ability to take advantage of these oppor­tunities and tremendous famil­ial support. There are hun­dreds of children in the South Bend area that lack one or all of these crucial assets, and they are calling out for our help. There are so many ways to of­
fer  that  help,  and  the  
Neighborhood  Study  Help  
Program is one such way.  

NSHP is a program that offers tutoring to children in first 
lEU HER I'M 0/<AY! 7f;t.L. M-IAT'S 7HATA6AIN,HtR. I'M ON MYWAY 70 816 6UY? I WAS 7H~ FRONT; 8UT mAT tu&'V& JU5T f3e.TTIN6 A 
5ea-J NO ACTION ::0 
Pl3NC/l-."/
/ FARATu, 
'No man can fight another like the man who fights himself. If you deal with the enemy within, then no enemy without can stand a chance.' 
Bob Dylan · 



1-------~~­Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
page 11

Viewpoint 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Upcoming GCAG blood drive symbolizes union with war victims 
Dear Editor: lunch. Sign up sheets are situ­forces in the Gulf. American, Iraqi, British, Israeli, and should not matter to them. 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group ated in the Center for Social 2) The local South Bend Blood French or of other nationalities. In fact, we encourage those has repeatt~dly stressed its sup­Concerns and at tables in din­Bank has not sent any blood Practically speaking, the blood who oppose our principles to port for the soldiers in the Gulf ing halls and the library. We out. It is on a waiting list and will probably be used to help join us, for their own reasons, war. We have taken the stance encourage people to sign up will be called on if necessary. At those in need in this county, in this one action that reveals that the best support we could early because only about 12 present, the Bank stresses to and that can only be a good our common ground. If this is possibly give is to do all we can people per hour can be donors that donated blood will thing. In giving blood we are indeed a time to show unity, to have the President stop the handled, so there will be room be used to keep up the regular giving life; the action is a then let us do so on this cam­war and bring the troops home for approximately only 84 local volunteer reserves of general support for human life. pus. We have our differences safely to their families. We rec­donors in the whole day. blood, and that is all until they and are free to air them, but we ognize and respect the sacrifice At 7 p.m. the same day we are told otherwise. We in the Gulf Crisis Action can act together. of those who are called to serve will hold a public educational Group wish to stress that we do Many, many human beings in th11 militaries, but reinforce forum centered on the issue of 3) It is a policy of all the blood not intend this particular action are losing their blood right now our eommitted support for and victims of the war. bank organizations in this to be a protest against or an in this war. We call on the stu­solidarity with all the people Before anyone questions our country that no designated endorsement of the war effort dents of Notre Dame, whatever suff11ring in the war zone. sincerity in this action, we want blood is to be sent to the Gulf. or any side in the war. For that their reasons, to take an ap­
to take this opportunity to This means that donors cannot reason we ask that no political propriate stand this Ash 
Aceordingly, on Feb. 13, Ash share with readers exactly why dictate how their blood will be signs or slogans appear near Wednesday, to remember those Wednesday, we are sponsoring our group has decided to orga­used. No one can ever know the location of the blood drive, bleeding in the Gulf and to act a blood drive in solidarity with nize a blood drive, and what where, or even if, his or her in respect both to those who in fellowship with their suffer­all victims of the war, to be exactly it is to entail. From a blood has been sent. are suffering in the war ·and to ing. overseen and run by the South representative of the South Because it is highly unlikely those who wish to donate blood. Bend Medical Foundation's Bend Central Blood Bank we that the blood will be used VIenna Colucci Central Blood Bank, an afliliate have learned the following in­anywhere but in the U.S., we, We are fully aware that David Cortright of tlw American Association of formation regarding blood do­as a group, see this drive others who might want to par­Allan Crosbie Blood Banks. The drive will nations and the war in the Gulf: primarily as a symbolic act of ticipate in this kind of event Pan Smith take place in Theodore's in 1) At the present time, 1000 solidarity with all victims of the may not agree with us or our David Palumbo LaFortune from 8 a.m. until 4 units of blood per week are be­war, combatants and non­particular reasons for holding Notre Dame Gulf Crisis Action p.m., with one hour off for ing sent from the U.S. to Allied combatants, Kuwaiti, it. This does not matter to us Group 
ND students display hypocritical support 
Dear Editor: dents badmouthed Ricky have a great year. A team 
When we visit11d Notre Dame Watters for dropping a punt. which had questionable depth last ymtr, w11 WMe told a lot of Where did the critics go after to begin with was not helped by things about what this school .the Tennessee game? As if this these unfortunate occurrences. was lih. We knew that Notre wasn't enough, a few weeks Digger Phelps and the team Damn had one of the finest ath­later, after the Penn State loss, are doing the best they can, letic programs in the country, we actually heard people saying considering the extremely and were told that the students Lou Holtz doesn't know what tough 32 game schedule they show great support for the he's doing. It always amazes us play, which includes just six tPams that rnpresent them: how ignorant some people can games against teams currently ".Just wait until football season; be about sports, thinking they with a losing record. Coming tlw students here just love their understand a game they have into this season, Phelps' t11ams." Unfortunately, what we never played, thinking they winning percentage at Notre have SIHHl to this point is not know more than a coach whose Dame was 68%. Compare this truP support but, instead, a teams have lost four games in to Mike Krzyzewski at Duke distorted and hypocritical ver­the last three years. (69%), and Dale Brown at LSU sion of it. However. the thing which (63%). These fine coaches 
One thing our coaches always made us write is what has been certainly aren't booed as they told us was that things always going on at the last few bas­are introduced at their home go well when you're winning. ketball games. For those of you games. It's when you lose that your who may not have been to We suggest that if you are true character will surface. We these games, our student body going to boo Phelps, don't think the student body should is showing its "basketball bother coming to the games. 
Dear Editor: would meet the U.N. goal of
ask. "llow well do you deal with knowledge" by booing Digger Stay home and do something I agree with President Bush. freeing Kuwait without further
advMsity?" Phelps, the Head Coach. productive. 
We are in the Persian Gulf to bloodshed.
In thn Stanford football game, Yes, the team is not having a stand up to lawless aggression. As God's children, we are

w11 lost to an unranked, great year, but when you lose Chris Caltagirone I do not agree with standing up challenged to love--not
unhnralded team. However,· Monty Williams for the season, Jason Pisarik to aggression and violence with kill--our enemies; to suffer,
upsets happen in every sport, Tim Singleton gets hurt, and Stanford Hall 
aggression and violence. As we rather than cause suffering; to
espPcially football. It was ap­LaPhonso Ellis is declared aca­Jan.30,1991 
are witnessing, violence only be merciful rather than
palling the way so many stu-demically ineligible, it's hard to escalates hatred, terrorism and revengeful. For though we live 
killing. We have lowered in the world, we are not to 
ourselves to Saddam Hussein's wage war as the world does, 
level. We are called instead, as nor fight with worldly weapons 
unrealistic as it appears, to (2 Corinthians 10:3-4). 
stand up to lawless aggression Peacemakers who sow peace, 
with a spirit of love, reconcilia­not war, raise a harvest of 
tion, forgiveness and a shield of righteousness and hold the 
faith. possibility of winning over their 
I believe economic sanctions enemies to a new way of think­
meet this criteria. I also be­ing and living. Jesus asks us to 
lieve, given 18-24 months, eco­go out into the world and make 
nomic sanctions could work, as disciples of all nations. How 
Iraq's economy is almost totally are we to do this if we are 
dependent on exporting oil and killing them? 
importing consumer and 
military goods to survive. A Julie Hart 
ceasefire now, followed by con­Off-campus 
tinued economic sanctions, Jan.30,1991 
Attending candidates'debate insures student involvement 
-
U.S. armed forces Dear Editor: voting for students who repre-. During our Administration, sent your beliefs. Attending the Dear Editor: instruments of our democrati­letter to a newspaper. It takes some of our decisions have Student Body President/Vice
In response to Mr. Crossen's cally-elected government. They, tremendous courage to face been met with controversy. We President debate will provide letter (The Observer, Feb. 1), I as we, are bound by the deci­death every minute in a war understand that that is a you with the best means for de­takn issue with his statements. sions of that government. If we zone. Those who possess such normal part of any termining the candidates' posi­lie states that in supporting do not like those decisions we courage will always have my Administration. However, one tions on the important issues. war, one supports killing. I certainly have the right to unconditional support and comment which particularly We urge you to come and ques­­grant him this point, as it does protest, but we are not less gratitude. If Mr. Crossen has a bothered us was, "you made tion the candidates tonight at 7 seem rather axiomatic. But he bound by a law we consider un­disagreement with U.S. policy, I the decision without consulting p.m. in the Notre Dame Hoom goes one step further and states just than by one we consider suggest that he take it us with the student body." It is on the second floor of that if we support the men and just. Our soldiers understand those who make that policy, not impossible for the Student Body LaFortune. 


women of the armed forces, we that it is not their job to make those who fight and die as a re­President and Vice President to support killing. This statement policy-that is to be left to the sult. consult the student body on Robert F. Pasin 
-

is as flawed as it is government. every decision they make. Student Body President reprehensible. Brian D. Martin However, you may best insure Fred Tombar Ill The men and women of our It takes no courage to protest Off-campus that your voice will be heard by Student Body Vice-President armed forces are the government policy or to write a February 2, 1991 

Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
Sophomore Literary Festival draws diverse authors 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Brown published his first collection of short stories, Heinz Literature Prize at the University of Pittsburgh Assistant Accent Editor Facing the Music, in 1988 and received the Mississippi for Moustapha's Eclipse. 
Ever since 1967, when one sophomore began the Institute of Arts and Letters 1989 Award for Literature. McKnight was born in West Germany to a military tradition by single-handedly organizing a campus Last fall Brown published a second collection of short family. After receiving his bachelor's degree from event celebrating the life and works of William stories, entitled Big Bad Love. Colorado State in 1981, he taught English in Dakar, Faulkner, the annual Sophomore Literary Festival David Huddle, a poet and short story writer from the Senegal, for a year. McKnight received a master's has brought to the University of Notre Dame University of Vermont, will read from one of his works degree in English from the University of Denver in 1987 campus some of contemporary literature's finest on Feb. 11 (Monday) at 8 p.m. in the Library and currently is an assistant professor of English in the authors and poets. They have included Kurt Auditorium. writing program at the University of Pittsburgh. Vonnegut, Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams, John Huddle published his first book of short stories, A Wakoski has published a large number of poetry Irving, and Ken Kesey, to name but a few. Dream with No Stump Roots in It, in 1975. Since then collections since her first book, Coins and Coffins, in 
This year the festival, in its twenty-fourth year, he has published four more collections of poetry and 1962. Selections from her various collections were brings seven writers to campus between Feb. 10 short stories: Paper Boy, Only the Little Bone, Stopping translated in Romanian in 1982. Wakoski's most recent (Sunday) and Feb. 15 (Friday) to read from their by Home, and The High Spirits. Two more works are collections include The Rings of Saturn (1987). work and to share their insights and visions. Work­scheduled for publication in the spring of 1992. Emerald Ice (1988), and Medea the Sorceress (1990). shops conducted by the authors will take place the A native of Ivanhoe, Va., Huddle served in the U.S. Wakoski's fellowships and grants include a USIA tour 
Army in Germany and Vietnam from 1964 -1967. He of Romania, Yugoslavia and Hungary, and a Fulbrightday following their readings at noon in the has degrees from the University of Virginia, Hollins for Writers to Yugoslavia in the fall of 1984. Since 1976Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
Leading off the festival is Larry Brown, the author College and Columbia University. Huddle is also the Wakoski has been writer-in-residence at Michigan State of two collections of short stories and a novel, Dirty recipient of two creative writing fellowships from the University and in 1990 she was designated university Work. Brown will read from his work at 8 p.m. on National Endowment for the Arts. distinguished professor. 
Feb. 10 (Sunday) in the Hesburgh Library Reginald McKnight, an African American short story Wakoski was also a participant in the Sophomore writer, and Diane Wakoski, a distinguished poet, will Literary Festival in 197 4.
Auditorium. 

Before starting his writing career, Brown was the make presentations on Feb. 12 (Tuesday) at 8 p.m. in Barry Hannah, known for his unique style in both captain of the fire department in his hometown of the Library Auditorium. stories and novels, will give a presentation of his work Oxford, Mississippi. Brown's short stories have been McKnight recently won recognition with his story on Feb. 13 (Wednesday) at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
published in several literary journals and The Best "The Kind of Light that Shines on Texas," which was Critics have praised Hannah for having the lyrical American Short Stories and New Stories from the included in The Best American Short Stories and The 0. style of William Faulkner. Hannah's first book, Henry Award Wznners. In 1988 McKnight won the Drew Geronimo Rex (1972), was nominated for the National
South anthologies. 

Notre Dame student elections: a battle of 'intellects' 
Choosing a college can be "Yeah,"said Patrick. "Doesn't exactly the same in 2050. safety of the community." tricky. I'm surely not alone in that make it hard to have a Except for tuition, of course. "That's it,"said John,"what
Chuck Young

deciding on Notre Dame largely clear stance on all of the is­There are some things you just about serious issues that we based on the regular room sues?" can't fight." can actually affect, like 
Fresh Perspective

cleaning and free laundry ser­"~d Neil does?" he retorted. So you don't have any posi­integration?" vice that was so lauded by the "He thought Lunchfast meant tions? "Hey, just because most uni­upperclassmen who showed me you didn't have to wait in line." "Oh, of course. They're just versities put Arts & Letters and
patches during basketball
around campus. Needless to "So what? I mean... he was not so liberal. We strongly sup­Science in the same college
games. And the alcohol policy
say, I was disappointed last fall right, wasn't he?" port holding An Tostal again doesn't mean we should. How
has to be changed. If you want
when I found two cleaning fluid All right, John, can't you run this year and continuing the can you be so backwards?"
to have a responsible party you 
bottles and an advertisement for some sort of Freshman Bookstore Basketball tourna­"Chuck, I give up."
have to charge people to get in
from Martin's cleaners had re­post? . ment. We also unequivocally grabbed her books. "Do you
just to cover the fines. That's
placed those services. I felt like "No, they don't have real elec­believe St. Michael's should be think you can write a political
not right, people shouldn't have 
a highly-recruited athlete who tions. That's one thing I want to rebuilt as soon as possible. Not column and get my name out
to pay to drink at Notre Dame, 
-found out the coach was leaving change. At least we had the to mention our groundbreaking there? Just once?" 
it's just not right..." 

the day after he signed with his pretense of voting in high ideas on how to encourage stu­
Hang on a minute. What are
first-choice school. school." dents to attend football games. "And make sure you mention
your positions, Pat? 

I related that story recently O.K., so you have a right to And we consider it especially me, too," said Patrick. "As you
"I see this man as a real
during a heated discussion in run. But what's your platform? important that Notre Dame know, I'm serious about under­
threat to everything we cherish
La Fortune with John Phillips "I want to privatize the dining continue its role as one of standing and supporting
at ND. That's why Neil and I are
and Patrick Mitchell, a halls. Sell 'em to Vic's Subs America's leading Catholic freshmen. It's the middle o
entering the race, even though
freshman and a junior running maybe. And replace the Universities." winter, the basketball team i
-
we don't have experience in
for Student Body President. bookstore 'on the campus' with Sounds ambitious. Well, does struggling, they've got 'u"-''ui5u.
Student Government. We're
"But." John insisted, "I'll keep a Bookmobile. We can use the your campaign include anything parietals over JPW... Maybe
willing to contribute some of
my campaign promises .. " building as a multi-cultural innovative?" can't solve those problems,
our valuable time-time that we
Do you have any credentials? center and for classroom "One thousand sharp looking at least we'll be defending
could spend garnering
"I was on the Prom space." two color posters. And it's about campus from people like
credentials that will help us get
Committee in high school." "You've got to be kid­time." that want to change it for
jobs-to help ND 'stay the
---Great. ding,"said Patrick. I mean, like new ideas for worse."
course'."

"And I was secretary of the "No, really. And I want to meeting the needs of the stu­
So what's your platform? 

Honors Society." make Domino's deliver to the dent body. The preceding column
"Well, we don't want to make
Even so, aren't you being kind door (people think they're get­"Oh. Well, if elected, we will humor. Any similarities to
any wild campaign promises we
of ambitious? You don't even ting cocky), and I want to make try to get ROTC units patrol people or their opinion
can't fulfill. Like most students
have a running mate like Pat's the Towers co-ed by section and Rape Road with M-16's, how's solely the result of Chuck's
here, we see Notre Dame being
buddy Neil O'Hara. the ushers wear American flag that? We're looking out for the luck. 
Sophomore Literary February 10-15, 1991 Festival 

Sunday: Larry Brown Monday: David Huddle Tuesday: Diane Wakoski and Reginald McKnight Wednesday: Barry Hannah Thursday: Greg Delanty Friday: Jaimy Gordon 

All readings will be held at 8:00p.m. m the Library Auditorium except for Wednesday's which will be at Washington Hall. 
Book Award and won the William Faulkner Prize. His latest novel is scheduled for publication in April. 
Hannah was born in Clinton, Mississippi, in 1942 and currently teaches at the University of Mississippi. He has written seven books, and his articles have appeared in Esquire, Harper's, Rolling Stone and The Southern Review. 
Greg Delanty, a visiting professor at St. Michael's College in Vermont, will read from his poetry on Feb. 14 (Thursday) at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Selections from Delanty's poetry include "A Wake on Lake Champlain," "The Emigrant's Apology," "Observations by a Pond at Dusk in Gainesville, Florida with a Thank You," and "Setting the Type." 
Delanty is originally from Ireland and his poetry is well respected in Ireland and in the United States. Delanty has already published one collection of his poems, Cast in the Fire. Another collection, Southward, is forthcoming. 
The festival will close with a reading by Jaimy Gordon on Feb. 15 (Friday) at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Gordon published her first novel, Shamp of the City Solo, in 197 4. She recently won acclaim for her second novel, She Drove Without Stopping, which was published last year. Her most recent effort. Lost Wed­dings, is a translation of a German novel by Maria Beig. 
Gordon was born in Baltimore, Maryland, and has de­grees from Antioch College and Brown University. Currently she is an associate professor in the English department at Western Michigan University. She has received three creative writing fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and numerous awards for her works. 
Wednesday, February 6, 1991 The Observer page 13 
---, 
Kansas State surprises No. 23 Oklahoma with 95-70 win ­
MANHATTAN, Kan. (AP) -After missing the game's first throw and then added a 3-point cold spell beginning the second basket. The Sooners did not .Jean Derouillere triggered a shot, Kansas State (12-8 over­basket to make it 6 7-60 . half. First Brittian, then score in the second half until quiek getaway and then deliv­all, 2-5 Big Eight) hit 10 straight Amerson each missed two Sallier's three-point play with ered two key baskets in the and seized a 21-8 lead. But Derouillere, a 6-5 senior, straight free throws and Brit­16:51 left made it 55-39. second half Tuesday night as The Sooners (15-7, 4-4) were sank two straight buckets, .Jeff tian muffed a layup. underdog Kansas State cruised trailing 67-49 when they made Wires hit a follow shot and But Oklahoma missed on Derouillere led Kansas State past No. 23 Oklahoma 95-70, their only move. Bryan Sallier Maurice Brittian tipped in three straight possessions in the with 23 points while Wires had the Sooners' most lopsided loss hit a pair of free throws and Wires' miss, giving the Wildcats meantime, and then Derouillere 21 and Brittian 20. Sallier had 
of the season. Mike Harris and Terry Evans a 75-61 lead with 6:44 to play. and Wires broke the drought 17 of his 18 points in the second 
dropped in two straight buckets with unanswered buckets. half and Webster had 14, all in over Kansas State's zone Oklahoma, which was ranked the first half. defense. No. 3 last year when Kansas A moment later, Brittian 
State carved out a 66-51 victory blocked a shot by Oklahoma Oklahoma's worse previous Keke Hicks, following Keith in Manhattan, failed to take freshman Jeff Webster and loss this year was a 22-point Amerson's turnover, hit a free advantage of a sudden Wildcat Amerson converted it into a setback to No. 2 Arkansas. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classlfleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all
Classifieds 
spaces. 
SUMMER JOBS  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK  John O'Brien,  
NOTICES  COUNSELORS/SUMMER  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  PLEASE HELP I  '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON'T  Thanks so much for the dozen roses and all the fan mail... l'm sure  
CHILDREN'S  2773097  I NEED JUST ONE TICKET TO  MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL  you're right .... You are my biggest  
TYPING AVAILABLE  CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY,  FREEDOM I Rent the best houses.  THE INDIGO GIRLS CONCERT I WILL PAY$$ OR MIGHT STILL  1-800-427-7710.  fan !I! I love you. Garth Brooks  ·"  
287-4082  TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST  Prime locations. 233­ HAVE ONE TICKET TO "LIVING  
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE  9947.  COLOUR" THIS FRIDAY FOR  ADOPTION: Christian couple  
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES:  TRADE OPTION.  seeks to adopt white infant.  Valentines  
NY TIMES, used and new books  ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL,  Affordable 5,4,2 bedrm. homes for  CALL PAUL AT 232-9646  Financially secure home in  
Pandora's Books 233·2342  BASKETBALL, BICYCLING,  '91-'92. Beach  suburban area. Expenses paid.  
corner of NO ave. & Howard  DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS,  V-ball ct., washer/dryer,  Legal/confidential. Answer our ad  
t 0-5:30 everyday  FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF,  safe area. 288-5653 or  and answer our prayers. Please call  test ad  
GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY,  234-3831  Harry and Melody collect at (219)  
HORSEBACK-ENGLISH,  II HOWARD II  259-0585 any time.  
WORD PROCESSING -Term  JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE,  Furnished bedroom in Turtle Creek  Kim and Cheryl 4 Sec.  
papers, reports, letters, etc.  NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY,  town house.  
Experienced legal secretary.  PIANO, ROCKETRY,  SPRING BREAK in Cancun or  
(616) 699-7387.  ROLLERBLADING, ROPES,  Available immediately!  Quand le philosophe Diogene  Bahamas from $299.001 Includes  
SAILBOARDING, SAILING,  avail faute d'argent, il disait qu'ille  roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, cruise,  
SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK,  Call Tim @ X2506  redemandait ases amis, non qu'ille  beach parties, free lunch and much  
Want a great job?  WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD.  demandait.  morel Organize a small group-earn  
Then you need a great RESUME I  MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP  -Montaigne. ComPriT-il?  free trip plus cash. Call  
Only $20 including 25 copies & envelopes on quality paper.  WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914)  FOR SALE  1-800-BEACH IT.  
MAIL BOXES ETC. 277·6245  381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR  Matt Bomberter and John Kinney,  
WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX  Thanks for the fun time on Sun.  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  
1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332  ROLEX WATCH, lady's, new, orig.  Are you guys still repressed?  CALLING VANESSA 2729305  
NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO 2/8  (617) 934-6536.  cost $3,000. Sacrifice. Dan 289­ Aerobicizel  
OR 2/9. WILL HELP W/ GAS $!  2797.  -Renee, Erin, Becky  
CALL X4112.  
'  LOST/FOUND I  SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO  TKT. FR. SB TO PHILA FOR 3/10/91 -$80. CALL RUTH 283­2876.  LOST AT LAS VEGAS PARTY ON MARION STREET: A white and green hat with an "I" on it. If you  NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC 10.  
SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL  have it, please return it to Dan (234­ ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD.  
LOST: Nikon Camera & Case  POOL AND LAKES IN THE  1048). Sentimental value.  CALL 277-6245.  
Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26  NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY,  GIBSON EPIPHONE  
at Law School Party in the  ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL  BASS GUITAR  
JACC Monogram Room. If  EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE:  BRAND NEW. GREAT ACTION I  I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8 Call  
picked up or found, please  CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE,  BEST OFFER.  Missy at 2577 $$  
contact 273-9236. You  MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914)  CLUB 23  
Will be rewarded for your honesty. $$$$$$$  381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX  CALL EDDIE @ 272-8198  Daily Specials. New addition:  SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA!  - 
1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332  FOR SALE:  The Coffee House  Fun in the sun on the beach in our  
(617) 934-6536.  Smith Corona Personal Word  Bring your books and come  NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated  
Processor (System 14)  study, or just come socialize.  AAA excellent. Call now 1-904­ 
LOST: Gold Gaurdian Angel Pin  Contains typewriter XE 6100  Open daily 4pm-3am.  252-1412.  
Great sentimental value  EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  w/dictionary; when hooked to  
Call Adrienne 284-5223  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  monitor becomes word processor.  
CALL 1 -615-4 73-7 440 EXT. B 340.  2 in 1!  CLUB 23  Dearest Cynthia,  
Interested? Staph @ 4322  Still thy name eludes me, although  
Lost -Silver necklace in CSC on  GRAPHICS ARTS STUDENT  Daily Specials. New addition:  methinks/1 have found thee out./  
1/30. Reward. Prof. O'Brien 239­ NEEDED FOR CATALOG LAYOUT.  The Coffee House  Why your heart shrinks/ From self­ 
7312.  PROJECT IS ON PC-BASED  Bring your books and come  revelation I do not know-/ Thy  
DESKTOP PUBLISHING SYSTEM.  '77 VW Rabbit GTI  study, or just come socialize.  stated fear is that I would forego/  
WILL TRAIN. CALL DENNIS 293­ Absolutely trashed  Open daily 4pm-3am.  The love thy heart bears for me if  
LOST-POLO silver  3568 (DAYS) 272-5031 (EVES)  but runs like bullet.  thy name/ Were revealed to me.  
wire rimmed glasses  $450 or bio. Call:  Could it me shame/ That  
no case please call  288 0018 or 283 1378.  encourages silence? I cannot make/  
Tim xt649  EXPERIENCED TAEKWONDO  CLUB 23  Love to a sonnet. I ask thee take/  
INSTRUCTION FOR 16 YEAR OLD  My quite humble and simply-versed  
MALE ATHLETE. CALL 277 4316  Daily Specials. New addition:  rhyme/ (If rhyming be not now a  
LOST: Green and white baseball  EVENINGS.  EXERCISE BIKE: USED ONLY  The Coffee House  terrible crime)/ As a sign of faith; but  
hat with an "I." Lost Friday night at  TWICE CALL 1559  Bring your books and come  of games I tire,/ So this answer:  
Las Vegas Party. Call Dan at 234­1048  FOR RENT  study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  Have you in Star Trek attire/ Been? I await your response. -Colin  
FOR SALE NEW COUCH AND  
CHAIR. CALL X4780  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  CLUB 23  Typical N.D. guy who happens  
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of  219-291-7153.  to be gay, seeks same for  
a link design. Great sentimental  Tickets  Daily Specials. New addition:  friendship. I have roommates  
value. Reward. Phone 2156  The Coffee House  too, so discretion is  
(Maria).  Bring your books and come  important. Thanks! MARK,  
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to  I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR INDIGO  study, or just come socialize.  P.O. BOX 974, N.D., IN. 46556.  
campus. Only $150/month. Call  GIRLS. CALL EVES 272 9602  Open daily 4pm-3am.  
FOUND: Eyeglass Case, found  Paul287-2159.  
Sat. Feb. 2 on path from  HELP-I need a ride to  
Flanner to NOH behind PW.  CLUB 23  SANDUSKY, OH or anywhere  
Call X1583 to identify.  3 Bedroom Homes.  NEEDED: 3 Syracuse b-ball tix  along OH TURNPIKE 2/8-2/10  
Walk to campus.  234-2728 (rick)  Daily Specials. New addition:  Lisax3882  
232-3616  The Coffee House  
Found: -lady's ring at ACC before break -scapular outside Howard  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92  PERSONALS I_  Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  -­Who the hell is playing at Club 23 Thursday?! ???????????  ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM  ....  
Call Dan @1772 to identify  Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776  A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA &  Who?l ???????  Slt•llle,..l People Slt•lftea.IIHIIft •t St. Edw•rd't H•ll  
WANTED ,_  Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month  FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786.  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS It's not too early to submit your  -­"GOOD QUESTION" LIVE AT CLUB 23 -THURSDAY 10 PM  Father Hesburgh  
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776.  PREGNANT? Loving, happily­married professional couple wishing  classifieds for Valentine's Day. Don't wait until the last minute -come in anytime SOON.  -­ SPEAKS ON  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373.  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms lor Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  to adopt. We promise your child lots of love, security, strong religious affiliation, & a lifetime of happiness including international travel/educational/& living  DON'T FORGETII UPS YOUR BOXES  ATTENTION: VICKER THE LICKER OF RICHARD. IN YOUR THIGHS THE NIGHT THE HEAT...IN YOUR THIGHS I'M INCOMPLETEI!I PETER  "WHAT I THINK ABOUT THE WAR IN THE GULF'  
WANTED-Female Housemate to share house in nice neighborhood 5 min. from campus. $240w/ util. call Angie 234-5316  ( 12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514.  opportunities. We enjoy skiing, hiking, camping, and visits with family and friends. Medical, legal, counseling, and living expenses possible. Call COLLECT 0-317-253­8838, Extension 567 and let us help you.  THIS WEEK FOR VALENTINE'S DAY DELIVERY THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 239-6714  John, Since everyone knows our nicknames, I'll just come out and say it: I LIKE YOU II Kelley -­ Wednesday, February 6 7:00P.M.  



------------__...... 
..... 
Scoreboard 
page 14 Wednesday, February 6, 1991 NBA STANDINGS NBA LEADERS NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS HOW THE TOP 25 FARED 
All Times EST Scoring All Times EST BASEBALL 1. UNLV (18-0) did not play. Next: vs. Fresno EASTERN CONFERENCE G FG FT Pis Avg WALES CONFERENCE American League State, Thursday. Atlantic Division Jordan, Chi. 44 535 280 1362 31.0 Patrick Division BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Luis 2. Arllansas (22-1) did not play. Next: at 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Barl<ley, Phil. 37 398 316 1133 30.6 w L T Pis GF GA Rivera, shortstop, on a one-year contract. Houston, Thursday. Boston 33 12 .733 4-6 Won 1 King, Wash. 46 542 288 1377 29.9 NY Rangers 27 19 9 63 197 171 MINNESOTA TWIN&-Agreed to terms with 3. Ohio State (18-1) did not play. Next: vs. Philadelphia 24 21 .533 9 3-7 Lost 2 K.Malone, Utah 45 442 372 1257 27.9 Pittsburgh 29 23 3 61 235 203 Jack Morris and Willie Banks, pitchers, on one­Northwestern, Saturday. NewYorl< 20 26 .435 13 1/2 5-5 Lost 1 Ewing, N.Y. 44 460 259 1179 26.8 Philadelphia 27 24 6 60 188 177 year contracts. Designated Chip Hale, second 4. Indiana (20-2) did not play. Next: at Washington 20 26 .435 13 1/2 4-6 Lost2 Robinson, S.A. 43 410 306 1127 26.2 New Jersey 23 22 10 56 200 184 baseman, for assignment. Northwestern, Thursday. New Jersey 14 32 .304 19 1/2 3-7 Lost 5 Wilkins, All. 44 409 268 1136 25.8 Washington 25 28 3 53 178 188 National League 5. Arizona (18-3) did not play. Next: at Southern Miami 12 34 .261 21 1/2 2-8 Lost 1 Adams. Den. 34 283 233 877 25.8 NY Islanders 18 28 8 44 155 190 CHICAGO CUB&-Agreed to terms with Steve California, Thursday. Central Division Richmond, G.S. 39 381 207 995 25.5 Adams Division Wilson, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 6. Duke (18-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 11 Detroit 34 14 .708 7~3 Won1 Mullin, G.S. 44 419 253 1112 25.3 Boston 32 17 8 72 210183 CINCINNATI RED&-Agreed to terms with Virginia, Thursday. Chicago 31 14 .689 11/2 6-4 Won1 Hardaway, G.S. 44 407 181 1034 23.5 Montreal 30 20 6 66 191 168 Norm Charlton, pitcher. on a one-year contract. 7. Syracuse (19-3) did not play. Next: at Notre Milwaukee 30 18 .625 4 4-6 Won3 Pierce, Mil. 43 336 267 976 22.7 Hartford 23 25 6 52 154180 HOUSTON ASTRO&-Named Ricky Peters Dame, Saturday. Atlanta 25 21 .543 8 4-6 Won1 Miller, Ind. 44 307 318 985 22.4 Buffalo 21 22 10 52 185181 manager of Auburn of the New York-Penn League. 8. St. John's (16-4) lost to Villanova 61-51. Next: Indiana 19 26 .422 131/2 5-5 Lost 1 Drexler, Port. 46 369 250 1022 22.2 Quebec 11 34 9 31 155 240 NEW YORK MET&-Agreed to terms with at Providence, Saturday. Cleveland 15 31 .326 18 4-6 Lost2 K.Johnson. Pho. 44 327 312 968 22.0 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Darryl Boston, outfielder, and Chris Dannels, 9. North Carolina (15-3) did not play. Next: vs. Charlotte 14 31 .311 181/2 3-7 Lost 2 Worthy, LAL 42 389 118 910 21.7 Norris Division infielder, on one-year contracts. North Carolina State, Wednesday. WESTERN CONFERENCE Daugherty, Clev. 44 340 264 944 21.5 W L T Pis GF GA SAN DIEGO PADRE&-Agreed to terms with 10. Kentucky (17-4) lost to No. 19 LSU 107-88. Midwest Division Hawkins, Phil. 43 299 269 919 21.4 Chicago 34 17 4 72 181 141 Bruce Hurst, pitcher, on a two-year contract Next: at Mississippi, Saturday. 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Chambers, Pho. 41 320 212 867 21.1 St. Louis 31 16 7 69 211 170 extension through the 1993 season. 11. Virginia (17-4) did not play. Next: at No.6 
San Antonio 31 13 .705 6-4 Lost 2 Blackman, Dall. 42 341 172 875 20.8 Detroit 24 27 5 53 189 206 BASKETBALL Duke, Thursday. Utah 30 16 .652 2 6-4 Lost 1 Minnesota 17 31 9 43 172 197 National Basketball Association 12. Southern Mississippi (15-2) did not play. Houston 25 21 .543 7 6-4 Won2 Field Goal Percentage Toronto 14 35 5 33 156 226 INDIANA PACERs-Activated Rik Smits, center, Next: vs. Virginia Tech, Thursday. Dallas 16 27 .372 141/2 4-6 Won 1 FG FGA Pet Smythe Division from the injured list. Released Jawann Oldham, 13. East Tennessee State (19-2) did not play. 
Minnesota 16 28 .364 15 5-5 Won2 Williams, Port. 203 325 .625 Los Angeles 31 18 5 67 224 172 center. Next: at Citadel, Saturday. Denver 14 30 .318 17 8-2 Won6 Gamble, Bos . 286 466 .614 Calgary 28 21 5 61 217 173 PHOENIX SUNs-Activated Kurt Rambis, 14. UCLA (16-5) did not play. Next: vs. Arizona Orlando 13 33 .283 19 3-7 Won2 Barkley, Phil. 398 671 .593 Edmonton 27 23 3 57 186 172 forward, from the injured list. State, Thursday. Pacific Division Divac, LAL 199 345 .577 Winnipeg 20 29 8 48 187 200 SAN ANTONIO SPUR&-Signed Clifford Len, 15. Nebraska (18-3) did not play. Next: at No. 18 Portland 39 8 .830 9-1 Won2 Parish, Bas. 241 420 .574 Vancouver 19 32 5 43 172 221 guard, to a 1 0-day contract. Kansas, Wednesday. 
LA Lakers 34 11 .756 4 10-0 Won 15 McHale, Bos. 357 635 .562 Tuesday's Games Continental Basketball Association 16. New Mexico State (16-2) did not play. Next: 
y 
Phoenix 29 15 .659 8 1/2 6-4 Won1 Robinson, S.A. 410 735 .558 Boston 6. Edmonton 5, OT CBA-Annonced that Michael Holton, Tulsa at UC Irvine, Saturday. Golden Stale 26 19 .578 12 7-3 Won 1 Paxson, Chi. 168 304 .553 Los Angeles 3, Philadelphia 2 guard, has been suspended indefinitely for failing a 17. Utah (20-2) did not play. Next: vs. Hawaii, Seattle 21 23 .477 161/2 5-5 Won 1 Washington 5, Vancouver'3 drug test. Thursday. LA Clippers 15 30 .333 23 3-7 Lost3 Rebounding New Jersey 2, Calgary 1 LA CROSSE CATBIRD&-Signed Gene Banks, 18. Kansas (15-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 15 Sacramento 12 32 .273 25 112 4-6 Lost4 G Off Del Tot Avg Wednesday's Games forward. Waived Michael Cutright, guard. Nebraska, Wednesday. Tuesday's Garnes Robinson, S.A. 43 191 372 563 13.1 St. Louis at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. Suspended Michael Williams, center. 19. LSU (14-6) beat No. 10 Kentucky 107-88. Lata Games Not Included K.Malone, Utah 45 157 410 567 12.6 Edmonton at Hartford, 7:35p.m. FOOTBALL Next: vs. Georgia, Friday. 
Atlanta 118, Cleveland 114 Oakley, N.Y. 45 165 382 547 12.2 Chicago at Montreal, 7:35p.m. National Football League 20. Georgetown (13-6) did not play. Next: vs. Detroit 107, Philadelphia 98 Rodman. Del. 47 179 353 532 11.3 N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. CHICAGO BEAR&-Agreed to terms with Mike Providence, Wednesday. Orlando 118, New Yorl\116 Ewing, N.Y. 44 113 385 498 11.3 Toronto at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. Ditka, coach, on a three-year contract extension. 21. New Orleans (19-3) did not play. Next: at Minnesota 94, Utah 93 Coleman, N.J. 39 133 274 407 10.4 CLEVELAND BROWN&-Named Bill Belichick Arllansas State, Wednesday. Dallas 114, Indiana 1 09 Daugherty, Clev. 44 1 02 355 457 10.4 NHL LINESCORES coach and signed him to a five-year contract. 22. Oklahoma State (15-4) did not play. Next: Gclden State 112, San Antonio 106 Parish, Bos. 44 132 325 457 10.4 DETROIT LION&-Named Dave Levy offensive vs. Iowa State, Wednesday. Denver at Phoenix, (n) Edmonton 3 1 0-5 coordinator. 23. Oklahoma (15-7) lost to Kansas State 95-70. LA Clippers at LA Lakers, (n) Assists Boston 1 2 2 1~ GREEN BAY PACKER&-Named Russell Next: vs. Seton Hall, Saturday. 
Wednesday's Games G No. Avg. First Period-!, Boston, Janney 18 (Townshend), Riederer strength and condi~oning coach. · 24. Pittsburgh (16-7) did not play. Next: vs. Charlotte at Boston, 7:30p.m. Stockton, Utah 45 640 14.2 PHOENIX CARDINALs-Re-signed Willie Boston College, Saturday. 
6:25. 2, Edmonton, Simpson 24 (Lowe, Messier), Miami at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Johnson, LAL 43 572 13.3 8:52, 3, Edmonton, Klima 22 (Lowe, Unseman), Williams, tight end, and Craig Kupp, quarterback. 25. Michigan State (13·6) did not play. Next: vs. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Adams, Den. 34 407 12.0 HOCKEY Iowa, Thursday. 
12:34. 4, Edmonton, Simpson 25 (Joseph, Houston at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. K.Johnson, Phoe. 44 444 10.1 National Hockey League
Anderson), 16:13 (pp). Phoenix at Utah, 9:30p.m. Richardson, Minn. 43 424 9.9 TORONTO MAPLE LEAF&-Traded Brad TOP 25 BOXES
Second Period-S, Edmonton, Klima 23 LA Clippers at Seattle, 10 p.m. Hardaway, G.S. 44 432 9.8 (Tikkanen, Unseman), 3:48. 6, Boston, Hodge 13 Marsh, defenseman, to the Detroit Red Wings for Portland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Bogues, Char. 43 412 9.6 (Barahona, Christian), 10:21 (pp). 7, Boston, an eighth-round pick in the 1991 entry draft. OKLAHOMA (70) 
Webster 6-12 2-214, Ware 4-12 3-411, Sallier 5-8 8­1318, Evans 3-12 0-0 8. Price 1-6 2-2 5, French 0-1 0­
Wesley 9 (Skriko, Neely), 19:59 (pp). COLLEGE
NBA BOXES Third Period-S, Edmonton, Klima 24 (Linseman, BIG EAST CONFERENCE-Announced that Tikkanen), 1:32. 9, Boston, Hodge 14 (Neely), Rutgers, Temple, West Virginia and Virginia Tech 
0 0, Harris 3-5 4-710, Keane 0-20·00, H1cks 1-51-24. Totals 23-63 20-30 70.
UTAH (93) PHILADELPHIA (98) 1:41. 10, Boston, Douris 4 (B.Sweeney), 6:38. will join Miami, Syracuse, Pittsburgh and Boston KANSAS ST. (95)Edwards 10-11 4-4 25, K.Malone 11-20 7-10 29, Barllley 10-16 3-3 23, Gilliam 9-17 4-5 22. Overtime-It, Boston, Hodge 15 (B.Sweeney, College to comprise the Big East football 
Amerson 4-6 2-611, Derouillere 11-161-2 23, Britt1an Eaton 3-5 1-3 7, Toalson 1-3 0-0 3, Stockton 6-15 Mahorn 3-5 7-713, Hawkins 5-16 2-414, Green 5-Neely), 4:52. conference, beginning next season. 
10-13 0-2 20, Zeigler 3-7 2-5 9, Wires 9-13 1-2 21, 2-214, Rudd 0-2 0-0 0, Griffith 3-11 0-0 6, Bailey 10 0-0 10, Anderson 2-4 1-1 5, Turner 3-7 0-0 7, Shots on goal-Edmonton 5·6·12·1-24. Boston Howard 2-7 2-2 6. Fritz 0-0 2-2 2. Rettiger 0-0 0-2 0, 3-11 1-2 7, Brown 1-3 0-0 2, O'Sullivan 0-2 0-0 0. Bol 0-2 0-0 0, Harris 2-3 0-0 4, Williams 0-0 0-0 0, 10-19-8-2--39. NO-LOYOLA BOX King 0-00.0 0. Shadd 0-0 0-0 0, Sams 1-11-1 3. Totals 
Totals 38-83 15-21 93. Payne 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 39-80 17-20 98. Goalies--Edmonton, Ranford. Boston, Foster. 40-63 11-24 95. DETROIT (107) A-14,448. Halftim~Kansas St. 47, Oklahoma 36. 3-polnt
LOYOLA, ILL. (61) 
Metz 2-91-2 5, Prutm 5-13 0-2 10, Schink 8-12 goals-Oklahoma 4-12 (Evans 2-6, Price 1-3, Hicks 1­
MINNESOTA (94) Rodman 4-8 1-2 9, Edwards 6-11 4-6 16, 4-4 20, Murtaugh 2-7 2-3 6. O'Shaughnessy 2-8 0-3), Kansas St. 4-10 (Wires 2-3, Amerson 1-3, Zeigler 1­1 4, Bluege 2-5 2-2 6, Slattery 0-0 0-0 0, Giometti 3, Derouillere 0-1). 

Murphy 1-5 5-6 7, Corbin 7-17 4-4 18, Breuer 2-Laimbeer 6-12 0-0 15, Johnson 9-18 3-3 21, 

8 0-0 4, Richardson 5-12 2-2 12, Mitchell 9-17 4-4 Dumars 8-18 2-4 19, Salley 1-4 1-2 3, Long 1-4 0-Los Angeles 0 2 1-3 1-1 0-1 2, Kundinger 1-2 0-0 3, Zalas 2-5 0-0 4,22, Spencer 2-3 1-2 5, Campbell 6-13 3-4 15, 0 3, Aguirre 9-13 3-5 21. Totals 44-88 14-22 107. Philadelphia 1 1 0-2 Hamill 0-0 1-2 1. Totals 25-62 10-17 61. VILLANOVA (61) 
Brooks 4-6 0-1 9, West 1-2 0-0 2, Colley 0-0 0-0 0, First Period-!, Philadelphia, Craven 18 Glass 0-4 0-0 o. Totals 37-8719-23 94. Philadelphia 37 27 19 15--98 (Murphy, Kerr), 3:38 (pp). 
NOTRE DAME (81) Bain 1-5 0-0 2. L.Miller 4-13 0-1 8, Oowdell2-5 6-7 Alexander 0-2 0-0 0, Davis 4-7 3-5 11, Nowlin 8-10, Walker 1-3 5-6 8, Woodard 2-8 3-4 8, D. Miller 0-1 0­Detroit 30 28 24 25--107 Second Period-2, Los Angeles, Elik 13 (Taylor, 
11 0-0 16, Robinson 6-15 0-0 13, Washington 3-6 0 0, Byrd 2-3 0-0 4. Bryson 9-13 3-5 21, Pelle 0-0 0-0 0.
Utah 25 24 17 27-93 3-Point goals--Philadelphia 3-11 (Hawkins 2-5, Blake), 3:02. 3, Philadelphia, Lacombe 7 (penalty 
2-2 9, Knapp 8-12 5-6 21, Leary 0-0 1-2 1, Totals21-5117-2361. 
Minnesota 19 34 22 19-94 Turner 1-1, Mahorn 0-1, Bol 0-1, Green 0-3), shot), 8:42. 4, Los Angeles. Duchesne 15 (Taylor, ST. JOHN'S (51) Liebscher 3-6 3-5 10, Orlosky 0-5 0-0 0. Totals 32­Detroit 5-9 (Laimbeer 3-4, Dumars 1-1. Long 1-1, Elik), 10:09. . 
Sealy 4-17 8-10 16, Singleton 1-5 2-4 4. Werdann 3-5 3-Point goals--Utah 2-7 (Edwards 1-1, Toalson 1-Johnson 0-1, Aguirre 0-2). Fouled out-Mahorn. Third Period-S, Los Angeles, Robitaille 30 1-4 7, Buchanan 4-10 0-0 10, Sproling 4-7 0-1 8, Scott 6414-20 81. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 37, Loyola, Ill. 25. 3-point 
1, Stockton 0-2, Griffith Q-3), Minnesota 1-6 Rebounds--Philadelphia 41 (Gilliam 1 0), Detroit (Halkidis, McSorley), 7:53. 2-4 0-0 4. Cain 0-0 0-0 0, Mulhn 0-5 2-2 2, Muto 0-0 0-0 
goals--Loyola, Ill. 1-7 (Prutm 0-4, Murtaugh 0-1, 
(Brooks 1-3, Campbell Q-1, Murphy 0-2). Fouled 55 (Rodman, Laimbeer 12). Assists--Philadelphia Shots on goal-Los Angeles 14-13-5--32. 0. Totals 18-5313-21 51. 
Kundinger 1-2)), Notre Dame 3-6 (Robinson 1-2, 
-out-Edwards. Rebounds--Utah 52 (K.Malone 16 (Green 6), Detroi124 (Dumars 11). Total Philadelphia 5-10-9-24. Halftime--St. John's 21. Villanova 19. 3-pomt
Washington 1-2, Liebscher 1-2). Fouled 
1 0), Minnesota 53 (Murphy 15). Assists--Utah 30 fouls--Philadelphia 22, Detroit 19. Goalies--Los Angeles, Hrudey. Philadelphia, goals-Villanova 2-10 (Walker 1-2. Woodard 1-3, 
out-Nowlin. Rebounds--Loyola, Ill. 31 (Schink 7), 
O.Miller 0-1, Bain 0-2, l.Miller 0-2), St. John's 2-9 Notre Dame 45 (Nowlin 11 ). Assists--Loyola. Ill. (Buchanan 2-5. Sprohng 0-1, Mulhn 0-3).
(Stockton 17), Minnesota 26 (Richardson 9). Total Technicals--Edwards, Aguirre, Detroit illegal Hextall. 
louis--Utah 21, Minnesota 17. A-19,006. defense. A-21 ,454. A-17,382. 
16 (Murtaugh 7), Notre Dame 24 (Robinson 8). 
In the NeXTstation'"eomputer. go to work. You e1·cn get a free trial we've managed to squeeze the most subscription to Ne)I.'T\VORLD'"mag­
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. ann.ounces opening 

possible computer into the least azinc. to keep you up to dau.:. 
South Bend office for the practice of 

possible spacc.\Ve\c c1lso squeezed And to make our case e1·en more the most possible computer into the compelling. we'll send a free copy of
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 

least possible: price. the extraordinarv spn:adsheet pro­
One low price includes not onlv grcun. Lotus hnpro' (a S6'15 value).
Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to. resolve 

the kevboard and monitor. but a full to e\·crvone "·ho purchases and regis­
personal, relationship, and career problems. University of 

eight ~1egabvtes of mcmorv. a built-in ters a NeXTstation pr NeXTcuhc 
Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­

2.RH-megabvte Aopp,· disk drl\·c and computcr, or an 0-lO upl(radc hoard 
Ethernet.The NeXTstation is also before March 31, 1991.• only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
analytic Association accredited training. Medication used 

equipped "ith a IO.'i-megabvtc hard We couldn't cvcn gucss wherc disk. onto which we ha1·c taken the vou could make a comparable pur-
Iibert\' of inscalling a rather formida­(·hasc. Bur 11·c can tell vou ex"­
'-' 

ble package of software. including actly where to make this \VriteNow.".l!rt/llflnarim.· NeXlinail'" one:Check. the space ~ and Digital Webster.'" So all vou han: below to find the location 
r;fll.

to do is plug it in and vou"n: readv to of Your campus rcseller. 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN
When the Great 

GET TWO BRUKTHROUGHS
Ameriam Dream 

FOR THE PRICE OF ONE. 
isn't great enough 
Have you considered

-
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

.. 




Wednesday, February 6, 1991 The Observer page 15 
·' 
Morris and Hurst become next $3 million men 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Jack Morris and Bruce Hurst became the 12th and 13th $3 million pitchers in baseball on Tuesday when Morris signed with the Minnesota Twins and Hurst got a two-year extension from the San Diego Padres. 
Morris, the winningest pitcher of the 1980s, rejected a $9.3 million, three-year offer that would have kept him in Detroit and signed a one-year, $3 million contract with the Twins. The pitcher has options for 1992 and J9<n at $2 million a se.ason. 
If Morris pitches 240 innings and makes 34 starts in each of the next two seasons, the con­tract would be worth $11 mil­lion over three years. 
"He brings us 240 quality in­nings," Twins manager Tom Kelly said. "That gives us somebody to look at if things are going bad -'Let Jack pick us up tonight.' It helps the bullpen. It gives our young pitchers someone to look up to." 
Minnesota spurned Morris after the 1986 season, when owners boycotted free agents. He was a new-look free agent this winter as part of the $280 million collusion settlement, and this time he was able to change teams. 
"It took four years and three free agencies to get him there, but he's there now," said Morris' agent, Richard Moss. 

Ten new-look free agents switched teams, three remained with their clubs for more money and two kept their old contracts. The 13 players with new deals signed for $84.5 mil­lion over 33 years, an average of $2.56 million a season. 
Hurst, the most highly sought free agent two winters ago, got an extension though 1993 for $6.4 million. 
"Bruce Hurst is a very signif­icant player and person in the Padres' plans for the foresee­able future," Padres general manager Joe Mcilvaine said in a statement. "We are delighted to be able to come to terms with him on this extension. We look for many good outings from Bruce over the next few years." 
Hurst, who will make $1.75 million in 1991 in the final sea­son of his three-year, $5.25 mil­lion contract, gets a $500,000 signing bonus as part of the ex­tension and salaries of $2.75 million in 1992 and 1993. 
San Diego has an option for 1994 at $3 million or must pay a $400,000 buyout. 
Three players in arbitration agreed to contracts Tuesday, reducing the remaining players to 79. 
Left-bander Norm Charlton, who made $175,000 last year, tripled his salary when he set­tled with the Reds at $625,000. 
Center fielder Daryl Boston and the New York Mets settled at $750,000, a raise of $440,000, while shortstop Luis Rivera agreed with Boston at $565,000, a raise of $255,000. 
The first arbitration cases are scheduled for Wednesday in Los Angeles. San Diego catcher Benito Santiago and Montreal first-baseman outfielder Mike Aldrete both are scheduled for hearings. 
Cubs pitcher Steve Wilson, who is not eligible for arbitra­tion, signed for $230,000, a raise of $85,000. 

Cleveland makes Belichiak NFL's youngest coach 
CLEVELAND (AP) -The Cleveland Browns made Bill Belichick thl\ NFL's youngest coach on Tuesday, hiring the NllW York (;iants defensive co­ordinator to resurrect the Browns from the rubble of last season. 
The 38-year-old Belichick was given a five-ynar contract to r!lplace Bud Carson, who was firNI Nov. 5 after the Browns lost seven of their first nine games. 
"It giVIlS 11111 a gn•at deal of pridll and plnasure to be a part of this organization," Belichick said. ''I'm tremendously proud to be hem. Tlw interest here is trPmendous, as it is with the tmtm I was with, the NHw York <;iants." 
Fornwr offPnsive coordinator .Jim Shofner finished the season as interim coach but took his name out of the running be­cause he was unable to halt the team's slide. 
Cleveland's 3-13 mark was the worst in the franchise's 41­year NFL history, a shocking turnaround from five straight trips to the playoffs. Injuries and retirements depleted the offensive line while contract problems wrecked morale on the defens11. 
Belichick's prospects of be­corning a head coach were en­hanced by the Giants' defensive performance last season, in­cluding their 20-19 Super Bowl win over the Buffalo Bills on Jan. 27. IIH also was a candi­date for the Tampa Bay va­cancy, which went to former Bucs assistant Richard Williamson on Monday. 

Browns owner Art Modell chose Belichick over several other candidates, including Los Angeles Raiders quarterbacks coach Mike White, former Los Angeles Rams defensive coordi­nator Fritz Shurmur, Seattle special teams coach Rusty Tillman and Kansas City defen­sive coordinator Bill Cowher. 
"Prior to taking this job I had very lengthy discussions with Art and other front office members," Belichick said. "I feel very comfortable with Art and how the organization works and I feel we can win with it. 
"I want to be involved in all facets. I've coached offense, I've coached defense, and I've coached special teams. 
Everybody is going to work to­gether and we are going to get it done. I want an aggressive, hustling team with a good work ethic." 
Modell described Belichick as a coach who reminds him of Don Shula. At age 60, Shula has coached 28 consecutive NFL seasons, the last 21 with the Miami Dolphins. 
"I've been disappointed be­fore, but I don't expect to be disappointed this time." Modell said. "We're not a 3-13 team, nor are we a 13-3 team. I think we are a competitive team. I will not give -him nor myself a time frame. I tried that before and it doesn't work." 
A native of Nashville, Tenn., Belichick is the son of Steve Belichick, a former fullback with the Detroit Lions and a long-time assistant coach at the 
U.S. Naval Academy. The elder Belichick played football at Western Heserve University in Cleveland and coached at nearby Hiram. 
The younger Belichick, who attended Wesleyan University, began his NFL coaching carPer as an assistant with Baltimore in 1975. He movHd to Detroit as an assistant in 1976, then went to Denver in 1978 before joining the Giants under Ray Perkins in 1979. He remaintld in New York when Bill Parcells took over as the Giants' head eoaeh in 1983. 
Belichick is the eighth head coach in Browns' history, not counting two int.Hrim coachHs. 
Last year, the Haiders' Art Shell, 44, was the youngest coach in the NFL. 

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES 
Wednesday, Febuary 6 at 7 pm 
Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor Lafortune 
Candidates 

Presidential: Mike Ferguson Nicole Farmer Joseph Blanco Mark Kromkowski Vice Presidential: Charlie James Eric Griggs David Flrenzo Sam Nigro 
-
All students are welcome. Come and Challenge the Candidates. 
** Election Date: Monday, Febuary 11 
-
.. 

page _16 The Observer Wednesday February 6, 1991 
Top recruits say 
Pistons down 76ers, Wolves upset Jazz 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) Magic 118, Knicks 116 footer at the buzzer for Utah, -Mark Aguirre came off the ORLANDO, Fla. -Scott which lost for the first time in 
they'll play at ND
bench to score 10 of his 21 Skiles sparked a 16-6 fourth­eight games against Minnesota 
points in the fourth quarter as the Detroit Pistons rallied to beat the slumping Philadelphia 76ers 107-98 Tuesday night. 
Vinnie Johnson, starting for the injured Isiah Thomas, also had 21 points. Joe Dumars added 19 points as the Pistons won for the sixth time in seven games since Thomas was in­jured. 
Charles Barkley, playing de­spite a sprained left ankle, had 23 points to lead the 76ers, losers in seven of their last nine games. Armon Gilliam added 22 points. 
The lead see-sawed until John Salley blocked Barkley's attempt at an easy banker. Bill 

-<--
Laimbeer then sank his third 3-pointer with 36.4 seconds left to seal the victory. 
Hawks118,Cavs114 
ATLANTA -Dominique Wilkins scored 14 of his 40 points in the final 7:50 as At­lanta snapped a six-game losing streak and won its 15th straight home game by beating woeful Cleveland. 
The Hawks blew a 19-point second-quarter lead when the Cavs fought back to gain ties of 77-77, 83-83 and 87-87. Duane Ferrell's driving layup with 8:25 remaining broke the final tie and gave Atlanta a lead it never relinquished. 
Wilkins, who also had 13 re­bounds, stretched the lead to 91-87 with a one-handed slam dunk on a rebound and later added two three-point plays to stretch the lead to 103-96. 
It was the fourth road loss in a row and 22nd in 27 games overall for Cleveland, which got 28 points from Darnell Valentine, 23 from Henry James and 19 from Larry Nance. Glenn Rivers added 19 points for Atlanta. 


LaSalle 
continued from page 20 
Woods (46 pts) and Overton (45 pts) combined to set an NCAA record with 91 points between them. 
And, if an opponent concen­trates on Woods and Overton too much, 6-6 swingman Jack Hurd (17. 3 ppg ) has the ability to beat them, especially with the trifecta. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps knows his Irish will have their hands full with the trio. 
"You're going to find Overton, Hurd and Woods really coming after the shooting," said Phelps. "Those kids are really active shooting threes." 
Phelps also cited penetration of the lane by Overton and Woods as key points of concern for the Irish. 
Notre Dame needs a strong game from its big men, espe­cially from center Keith Tower. Milko Lieverst, the Explorers' import from the Netherlands, is LaSalle's leading rebounder 
(8.6 rpg), but stands only 6-9. The only other Explorer regu­lar taller than 6-6 is reserve forward/center Bron Holland, who is 6-8. 
Phelps thinks the Irish have to use their height advantage to beat the Explorers on the in­side. 
"We're going to have to do a

-
quarter burst and Greg Kite hit a layup with 37 seconds re­maining as Orlando won for the third time in four games. 
Skiles scored 23 points and Dennis Scott 20 as the second­year Magic swept the season series 2-0 to hold a lifetime 4­2 advantage over the Knicks. New York lost for the fifth time in seven games. 
The Knicks overcame an eight-point deficit to tie the game at 116 with l:Olleft. But Jerry Reynolds slipped a pass to Kite, who hit the decisive shot from the left baseline with time running out on the shot clock. 
New York, which got 28 points from Kiki Vandeweghe and 21 from Patrick Ewing, had two opportunities to tie. Ewing, who sat for more than four minutes with foul trouble, missed a turnaround jumper with 28 seconds remaining, and Maurice Cheeks' off-bal­ance jumper bounced off the rim at the buzzer. 
Wolves 94, Jazz 93 
MINNEAPOLIS Sam Mitchell's 15-foot jumper with 
11.4 seconds left capped a 22­point performance, giving him 87 points in three games and the Minnesota Timberwolves their first victory ever over the Utah Jazz, 94-93 Tuesday night. 
The second-year Timber­wolves beat teams with win­ning records in successive games for the first time. They are 3-20 against winning teams this season. 
Tyrone Corbin had 18 points and Tod Murphy 15 rebounds for Minnesota, which was coming off a double-overtime victory over Philadelphia. 
Thurl Bailey missed a 20­while its three-game winning streak ended. Karl Malone scored 29 points and Blue Edwards a career-high 25 for the Jazz. John Stockton added 14 points and 17 assists. 
Malone scored eight points during a 12-3 surge that gave the Jazz a 93-90 lead with one minute left. After Tony Campbell made a jumper to cut the deficit to a point, Corbin blocked Darrell Griffith's long jumper and the Jazz turned the ball over on a 24-second violation. 
Corbin missed a drive, but the rebound was knocked back to Mitchell, who hit from the foul line. Mitchell was the hero for the second straight game. He had 37 points in 58 minutes and put the Timberwolves ahead for good in their victory over Philadelphia. 
Stockton's pass was de­flected out of bounds with 2.5 seconds left before Bailey missed from the right baseline. 
Mavs 114, Pacers 1 09 
DALLAS -Derek Harper scored 24 points and had a key steal and offensive rebound in the last 30 seconds Tuesday night as the Dallas Mavericks rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers 114­109. 
The Mavericks took the lead for the first time late in the third quarter with a 19-6 run, fueled by Herb Williams, who scored 14 of his 16 points after halftime. 
Indiana closed to 101-100 on Greg Dreiling's follow dunk with 2:59 left. Rolando Blackman, who had 22 points, sank a jumper and two free throws to put Dallas ahead 109-106 with 27 seconds left. 

Special to the Observer 
The nation's fastest high school football player is one of two Texans who have verbally committed to attending Notre Dame next year. 
Mike Miller, a 5-7, 155-pound wide receiver from Sugarland, Texas, has run the 100 meters in 10.1 seconds and is being widely touted as an eventual replacement for junior flanker Raghib Ismail, who plans to en­ter the NFL draft this year. 
Miller ran for 635 yards and eight touchdowns this season, while catching 35 passes for six touchdowns. The senior, who chose the Irish over Miami and Texas, also returned five of 10 punts and kickoffs for touch­downs. 
Chicago-based recruiting analyst Tom Lemming said Miller was "a big catch for Notre Dame, perhaps its biggest catch for a long time." 
The Irish also received a ver­bal commitment from one of Texas' best defensive players, Hunter Bakich, and Pennsylva­nia quarterback Paul Failla. 
Bakich recorded 194 tackles and nine quarterback sacks his senior year. The 6-3, 210­pound linebacker has been clocked at 4.4 in the 40-yard dash and bench presses 320 pounds. Bakich chose Notre Dame over Miami, Texas, Col­orado and Texas A&M. 
Failla, a 6-3, 185-pound quarterback, connected on 63 of 118 passes for 1,028 yards this year. The Wexford, Penn., native ran for 11 touchdowns while throwing for 14. Failla, who runs the 40 in 4.6, is also a top baseball prospect and is expected to be drafted. 
Today is official signing day. The Irish are still waiting for commitments from Lee Beck­ton, a top running back form North Carolina, and lineman Peter Kendall from Mas­sachusetts. 


Hair Styling for Men & Boys 
GENTLEMEN'S BARBER STYLING 

2443 Miracle Ln. 
Sam Belardinella

Town & Country Shopping ('tr Mishawaka. IN 46545 255-6429 
job on the boards," said Phelps. "We've got to try to get the ball inside and score our points that way." 
The Explorers are coached by Bill "Speedy" Morris, the first Division I coach to go from coaching a women's team (at LaSalle) to a men's squad. Morris is one of only three coaches ever to win 100 games in his first four seasons. 
Morris has the Explorers playing an uptempo style, as evidenced by their 68-point first-half outburst at Loyola Marymount, and 66-point sec­ond-half effort against Vil­lanova. 
"They've really adjusted well without Simmons, to play this type of game now, where obvi­ously they want to run, push the ball, shoot it," said Phelps. "And I think the thing we're going to have to control is their perimeter-shooting game." 
The Explorers had their 27­game Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference win streak snapped earlier this season against Iona, but they jumped right back in the saddle and currently are riding a seven-game win streak, and are shooting for their fourth straight MAAC Championship and the NCAA berth that goes with it. 
The Irish are playing their fourth game in eight days and will have played five games in 11 days when they play Syra­cuse on Saturday. 
Research saves lives. , 
, 

• 
-~---~-------­
Wednesday, February 6, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bruins beat Oilers in OT, 6-5 
THE NO CRICKET CLUB will have practice today at 11 
p.m. in Loftus. All students and faculty are encouraged to attend and bring equipment. For information, call Marko 
x:H19 or Tim x 1556. 
BODY FAT TESTING will be held today from 7-9 p.m. in the football auditorium of the JACC, free of charge, sponsored by Non-Varsity Athleties. 
ATTENTION CREW MEMBERS: meeting this Thursday, Feb. 7 at 7:30p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. $40 dues must be in. The erg race will be discussed and issue sweats will be distributed. For thos11 who have not paid, sweatshirts are $25 and sweats are $1 <J. Bring your checkbooks. 
COME SEE THE IRISH WRESTLING TEAM take on No. 5 Nebraska at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday., Feb. 8 in the JACC. Gift r.ertifkates to Macri's Deli will be given away. 
OFF-CAMPUS LACROSSE -Anyone interested in planning call Mike or Pete at 287-2218, no talent necessary. 
THE HAPKIDO CLUB meets Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in Hm. 21 <J Hockne. Learn self-defense and sparring t11r.hniques. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Hon at x3504. 
STUDENTS INTERESTED in 1991 Bengal Bouts promotions should attend at meeting at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. I;{ in thn Boxing Hoom at the JACC. 
THE ND/SMC WOMEN'S LACROSSE TEAM will have a mnPting on Tuesday, Fnb. 12 at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
Sobering Advice;: 
~~~~~ ~!!fe~~ 
Before You Drive ~·~· · 

FLASH... 
Happy Birthday 
Congratulations on your Olympic training in Utah! 
ND loves and 
misses you!!! 
Projects 

'STUDENTS volunteer lor 8 weeks In soup kitchens, shelters, hospitals, summer camps, social service agencies, etc.•• 
'SCHOLARSHIP Of $1400.00 Is awarded to each student 
'SPONSORED by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs across the country 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 7TH 
•for more Information contact your dorm rep or the Center tor Social Concerns 

BOSTON (AP) -Ken Hodge completed the first hat trick of his NHL career by scoring with eight seconds remaining in overtime to lift the Boston Bru­ins to a 6-5 victory over the Edmonton Oilers Tuesday on Tuesday night. 
Petr Klima scored three goals for the second time in four games for the Oilers and Craig Simpson had the other two goals for Edmonton, which led 4-1 early in the second period before Hodge led Boston's comeback. 
The victory gave the Bruins a 15-2-2 record against the Oilers in regular-season games at the Boston Garden. The Oilers are 4-0 in playoff games at Boston. 
It was the ninth victory in 11 games for the surging Bruins, who tied Chicago for the lead in the overall NHL standings with 72 points. Boston outshot the Oilers 39-24 while snapping Edmonton's four-game winning streak. 
Kings 3, Flyers 2 
PHILADELPHIA-Luc Ro­bitaille's 30th goal of the season snapped a third-period tie and lifted the Los Angeles Kings past the Philadelphia Flyers 3-2 on Tuesday night. 
Robitaille, who broke a tie late in the third period of the Kings' win Monday night in De­troit, took a pass from de­fenseman Bob Halkidis and beat Ron Hextall to the far side with a slap shot from the right circle at 7:53. It was Robitaille's 21st goal in his last 30 games. 
The win was the Kings' fifth in their last six games and moved them six points ahead of second-place Calgary in the Smythe Division. The Flyers have lost two straight home games and three of their last four overall .. 
LA's Wayne Gretzky, playing in his 900th NHL game, was held pointless for only the fifth time in 53 games this season. 
Los Angeles tied the game 2-2 at 10:09 of the second period. Steve Duchesne collected his 15th goal of the season when he picked up a loose puck in the slot and knocked it under Hex­tall's leg. Dave Taylor's assist on the goal gave him his 1,OOOth NHL point. 
Philadelphia had taken a 2-1 lead 87 seconds earlier when Norman Lacombe scored on a penalty shot at 8:42. Los Ange­les defenseman Rob Blake threw his stick at Lacombe aftnr colliding with teammate Brian Benning. Lacombe's slap shot beat Kelly Hrudey over his left shoulder for the Flyers' second penalty-shot goal this season. 
Capitals 5, Canucks 3 
LANDOVER, Md. -Dino Cic­carelli scored his 400th career goal early in the third period to ignite a four-goal rally that lifted the Washington Capitals past Vancouver 5-3 Tuesday night, extending the Canucks' winless streak to seven games. 
Ciccarelli, AI Iafrate and Dale 
Hunter scored in an 8:27 span 
as Washington overeame a 3-1 
deficit to hand Canucks coach 
Pat Quinn his second loss with­
out a victory since taking over 
for Bob McCammon on Jan. 31. 
Mike Hidley added an empty­net goal with 13 seconds left as Washington scored more than ·two goals in a period for the 
first time since Dec. 7.\ 
Michal Pivonka had three as­sists for the Capitals, who had two shorthanded goals and ended a 1-for-39 power-play drought on Hunter's game­winner with 6:28 left. 

Canseco's wife wants hearings moved 
MIAMI (AP) -The wife of Oakland A's right fielder Jose Canseco is seeking to move the couple's divorce proceedings to California. 
Canseco filed for divorce in Florida on Jan. 16. In the di­vorce papers, Canseco said his marriage to Esther was "irrevocably broken." 
Miami attorney Luis Delgado said Canseco was attempting to take advantage of Florida di­vorce laws. 
"Jose Canseco would stand to benefit greatly if the divorce proceedings were held in Florida," Delgado said in a news release on Tuesday. 
Delgado said the Cansecos 
have not been residents of the state of Florida since April 1988. 
"They live in California, work in California, pay resident taxes, have checking and sav­ings and investment accounts there," Delgado said. 
In California, community property is split 50-50 in di­vorce proceedings. 
Canseco, 26, won a $10,000 bet with teammate Dave Stew­art in 1988 by getting married before a Nov. 5 deadline. 
He married Esther Haddad of Miami in a civil ceremony in Co­ral Gables on Oct. 25, 1988. 
The Canseco's own two vaca-
Though the men's foil team did lose one team match for the 
Fencing 
weekend, the team performed well overall, garnering a 7-1
continued from page 20 
record. losing a maximum of three The squad's only loss, to bouts against any one foe. North Carolina, came at the 
"The epee squad was the end of a long day of fencing. most consistent team this Sophomore star Noel Young, weekend," said women's coach who was absent from the Irish Yves Auriol. lineup the previous week with 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Come have the best summer of your life! Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience living in the awesome Rocky Mountains brings. St. Mary Lodge &Resort, Glacier Park's best, now hiring for the 1991 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services February 7th and 8th. Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now, or call 1-800-368-3689 Don't pass up the opportunity of alifetime! 
tion homes in Coral Gables, where they spent time during the offseason, Delgado said. 
"My client simply wants what she is legally entitled to," Del­gado said. 
Mrs. Canseco made headlines last October for criticizing Oakland Manager Tony La Bussa, who benched an injured Canseco for Game 4 of the World Series. 
"He's a punk," Mrs. Canseco said of La Hussa at the time. "Let them (the Reds) sweep us. I should have worn a red dress." 
Canseco, bothered by a sore back, played poorly in Cincin­nati's four-game sweep of the A's last October. 
illness, was 19-5, and senior captain Phil Leary also foiled well, with a 16-4 record. 
The Irish women's team was also undefeated for the week­end, as Heidi Piper was a spot­less 29-0. Captain Lynn Kadri fenced a strong 23-6, and Anne Barreda, Rebecca Haugh, Kelly Haugh and Margaret Connor all brought in winning records for Notre Dame. 
This success, however, did not come as easily as it may seem, as the Irish survived two key injuries incurred Saturday. 
"We were struggling because Hebecca Haugh sprained her ankle, and Anne Barreda hit her head," said Auriol. 
The Notre Dame women now have a 17-0 record, which in­cludes a convincing victory over defending national champion Wayne State last month. 
But despite the teams' excel­lent performances this week­end, Auriol maintains that the NCAA tournament will not be as easy. 
"This weekend was some ;m­provement, but we have a long way to go," he said. 
Both teams will compete in Detroit this weekend. 


Daily Specials 


THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-38.m. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 6, 1991
page 18 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Mike Ditka will be prowling the Chicago Bears' sidelines for the next three years after agreeing to a new contract on Tuesday. 
"We worked it out in a matter of minutes," team president Mike McCaskey said of the new deal, worth an average of about $1 million a year according to a report on WBBM-TV. "We don't believe in agents. We worked it out man-to-man and face-to­face. 
"There was never much of a doubt in my mind that Mike wouldn't be coaching for us," McCaskey said. "We talked a number of times and it wasn't so much about the contract. It was more reflecting on the past season and things we did well and things we didn't do so well. I think we came up with some good ideas." 
Ditka was absent for the an­
nouncement. He was on his way 
to Palm Springs, Calif., for a 
golfing vacation. 
McCaskey said Ditka is the 
Wuss 

Ditka, Bears sign three-year contract 
personification of Bears foot­doubts in Ditka's mind over ball. 
whether he wanted to continue coaching. 

"He has done an excellent job coaching the Bears. He helps us "We all are aware the year take the field and play football before had not been a very 
the way the Chicago Bears pleasant or enjoyable one for should," McCaskey said. "We Mike Ditka or for any of the are one of the teams in the NFL Bears," he said. "I think during 
that have a distinctive personal­that time, there was a question ity. We play tough, hard-nosed in his mind whether he wanted football on defense, and a lot of to continue with football and if it stems from Mike Ditka." it was fun and enjoyment enough to offset the aggrava­
Ditka has coached the Bears tion that necessarily comes with since 1982. He was named being so public and so heavily coach of the year in 1988 when scrutinized." the club went 12-4 although he missed a month in the middle of He also said money was not a the season due to a mild heart problem. attack. "At this point in his career, 
money is not the most impor­
In 1989, the Bears slumped to tant thing for Mike," McCaskey 6-10, but came back this past said. "He does have extraordi­season to win the division with nary opportunities being in an 11-5 record and defeated Chicago. New Orleans in the first round of the playoffs before losing to "We've already turned our the New York Giants 31-3 in the attention to getting to the Super NFC semifinals. Bowl. planning for the NFL 
draft and getting the coaching McCaskey said the Bears' staff all geared into acting as collapse in 1989 had triggered one." 
-==:::: =-------:=:::-­
; --=-----~ --=-­
----==---­
SMC basketball faces tough rivals 
continued from page 20 
has a hall formal Friday, but her fiancee has other obligations. "I wanted to go to the dance, but I didn't want to break his heart," she says. 
Guess what dorm her fiancee lives in? 
"Wuss Hockey comes before all else," says Mike Burk, shrugging his shoulders as if he had no choice between Wuss Hockey and a Walsh formal. 
Scarmack. Burk's roommate,

~ ·~ never had skated in his life be­t fore coming to Notre Dame t and, since he'd been here, I never had mastered the craft. 
~ 
Scarmack's "coach," Chet 

I 
Milensky, is also a senior in ~ Dillon who sees Scarmack's si­l t tuation as completely regular. 
"The ice is a universal handi­

I 
I cap," says Milensky, who is not l playing Wuss Hockey because ~ he doesn't wish to injure him­I self and endanger his I participation in another sport, 
car racing. "Nobody skating out I there on Wuss Hockey has
I 
mastered the ice. The ice is a

I 
handicap."

~ 
"Yeah," says Scarmack. "And 

I ~ 
I'm utterly disabled." Although Scarmack's level of

l 
l play-even though it has im­l proved-is a bit below the I norm, it really does not matter I how bad you are at the sport.I This makes it uniquely charm­
l 
ing. "It's a sport where you get 
praised for being the worst," says Mike Morin. "You don't have to worry if you stink." 

t 
Be that as it may, Wuss

~ 
I Hockey enables Dillonites to 
vent their anxiety on the t ice-in a sporty way. I "You can go totally out to kill 
~ 
your roommate and not worry

l 
about hurting them," says

I 
Kraemer.

I 
This is because everybody is so blatantly bad at the sport that no one can deliver any real harm on anyone else. But some would dispute that claim. 
"It is the most painful (sport) I've played at Notre Dame," says Scarmack, whose hips and knees have seen many a bruis­ing. "But it's extremely fun. It's male bonding at its most ab­
surd."'' 
'I 
~t 'J,
...... ro
C1v1• In tlw Un~tt•d W,1y. 
.. 

By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will look for victory tonight in a rematch with the University of Chicago. 
At the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic, Chicago beat the Belles{S-6), 85-73. Coming off of Saturday's loss to Olivet College, 64-74, the Belles know they need to make changes. 
"We've started behind in the last three games, "explained Belles head coach Marv Wood. "We have to get started. We can't give up 10 to 20 points early and expect to beat them." 
The next three opponents 
for the Belles are the strongest 
on the schedule. After facing 
Chicago tonight, the Belles 
host Division III National 

Our undergraduate officer commissioning program gives you the opportunity to get more than a B.A. or 
B.S. It gives you a chance to get a career started plus: 
• 
Earn $100 a month during the school year 

• 
As a freshman or sophomore, lets you complete 

your basic training during two six-week summer sessions 

• 
Lets you get in line for one of our graduate programs as a junior 


Earnad~ 
in Jeaderibip. 
Champions Hope College and then Rosary College. The Belles lost to Hope earlier this season in a close contest, 62­59. 
Tonight, the Belles are keep­ing their eyes on three players. Guard Chris Maschka scored 16 points in the last matchup. Catherine Fitzgerald, point guard, scored 14 points. Forward Ebony Howard led Chicago in its victory by tallying 22 points. 
"We weren't doing the job on boards against Howard," added Wood. "We'll have take some of their strong perimeter shots away. It's not going to be easy, but it can be done if we pay the price." 
"We already played them and we should know what to do to beat them," added junior forward Janet Libbing. "We got some things to show ourselves and to our coaches. I think we can do it." 
• Lets you take civilian flying lessons So, if you're looking for a chance to lead, check out the Marine Corps undergraduate officer program. 
You could start off making more than $20,000 a year from the start. 



~--------------~----~ -----~­
The Observer page 19 
'­

CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 
Wednesday 
3:30 p.m. Presentation. "Introduction to Resume Ex­pert". By Paula Cook, ND Career Counselor of Career and Placement Services. In the Career and Placement Confer­ence Hoom. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Film, "Vampy." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
9 p.m. Film, "I was a Contestant At Mother's Wet T­Shirt Contest". Annenerg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
Thursday 
12:05 p.m. Film, "The Grand Canyon". A part of the Lecture series of Travnl Vidnos at Noon Series. At the ETS Theatrn, Cnnter for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Educational Media. 
LECTURES 
12:15 p.m. Lneturn. "Sexual Harassment at Work and What to do About it." By Professor Barbara Fick of ND Law School. At Thn Center for Soda) Concerns. 
MENU 


p E HO J AL 0 
AD
E A 
L
S T 
ANOR

A LR D E 

ARRAS WETS. 
FROMSTN I CHOLAS 
TERSE-EM NIP RAMPAL 
AD 
I 

T~AST.ROUGE 
F A 

T H EIA c H "IT M A 
s 

ARE E L. HALT REMOVE KID EACH AERATE~R S H E A D C A R 0 
L
stc51i"t:i 

T 0 
R N 
A B E L 
L 
N A 

I A L L AE R 
0 s
E D
ow 
L y 
AN
S T 
s

R E N E 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Frind Steak Spaghetti and Meatballs Chnnse Enchiladas Baked New Zealand Whiting 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~UGHHH! ~ sKOW SNAKE'S GOT Mt! 
f>..\ LH'S"\ t #AVE t>-. LIHO ... UN\..\~ SOME WEIROOS I KNOW. 

Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Chicken/Bean Tostada Blueberry Crepe Deli Bar 
BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER 
\bR~IB\..t. \NNt.R. \ttl\4 ON 
ITS SE?t>-R~TEL~ tiiOIJING­Ul'PER Jf>..W ~N~ t>..~ 1'\lLUNG 11\1:. 00\'.IN \IS FRIGID Gl.ll\..E\! Rl.lN 
toR. '10\lR LirE! 

'f( A.t~ ~~0 
~ ~~'V ~~ 
~~ ~0 ~ ~'t'\ ~,o~ 0.., v 

""" iljdp x'o x'o \\ 
_,G,, · ·{'.'\' ~0 co · 

A\(}~ (j 'C X~· ~')."-' ?>-~~ ~?}'\' '0'\
S ~~~ v.._0 0~0 . e:,e <'lo~~ ~ 
~:{':). ()0'< 

48 Like a summer 
tea 49 Undulating 51 Wrongful act, in 
law 53 End of the quip 60 Different 61 Hebrides island 62 Musical symbol 63 Peachy-keen! 64Shake-­
(hurry) 65 Western alliance 66 America or 

Muffet 67 Knob 68 Skiers' delight 
DOWN 1 Sandwich fish 2 Solar disk 3 Source of poi 4 Like tired merchandise? 
ACROSS t Makes doilies 5 Uppity one 9 The Censor of 
ancient Rome 13 Beehive State 14 Put on cargo 15 Burning 17 Emperor of 

Rome: A.D. 54-68 18 Appian Way, for one 19 Honey badger 20 Start of a quip 23 "Taffy-­Welshman" 24 Electrically charged atoms 
25 "Like-, he hunts in dreams": Tennyson 
27 Very small: Comb. form 29 Advantage 33 From behind, Roman style 
35 Suffixes for mountain.and auction 
37 Ger. is here 38 More of the quip 41 Label 42 French battle 
site: 7/7/44 43 Martin and Allen 44"--This a 
Lovely Day?" 46 Pennines, e.g. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Opens an envelope 

22 Dudley and 6 Hale or Detroit Roger7 Music halls 25 Mercatora "lch bin ein product
--":J.F.K. 26 Condescend
9 Leslie of films 1 o "A dagger of the 28 Fabulous mind,­moralist 
creation": 30 Plunge into Macbeth 
31 Ridiculed 
tt Josip Broz 32 Notable periods 

12 Beaver St. 16 TV Tarzan 33 Play start 21 Scottish 34 Book size 
pudding 36 Swift's forte 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE 
39 Duke Orsino's nationality 40 Speakers' 
stands 45 Chirps 47 Plastered 50 Kin of 
dreadlocks 52 Storm, to Simone 
53 Chip off the old block 54 List entry 55 Siamese 56 Alone 57 Lamb 58 This, in Toledo 59 Pack 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
GARY LARSON 


0 
0 0 
0 

;~,.._.._ ... 
*************************************************** 
r

SO'S ~x'ecutlve Council Applications for 1991-92 ~ 
.. 

Now available from the Secretary, 2nd Floor LaFortune iC 
.. 

Due by Feb. 11 (Interviews Feb. 12 & 13) iC 
.. iC 

iC u~ ~ I? rn $ iC 
~ 

cj,,C0~-v ~~() Thursday at Cushing Auditorium iC

.. 
8:00 and 10:30 P.M. ~ Admission: $2 STUDENT UNION BOARD
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ i( 
-. 
I I 

. j 
Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, February 6, 1991 
Women down Loyola 81-61, up record to 16-3 

Davis scores 1OOOth point, Knapp leads Irish with 21 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
After weeks of quizzes, the Notre Dame women's basketball team awaits its biggest mid­term exam of the regular season. 
The 20th-ranked Irish passed its final test last night with flying colors. cruising to an 81­61 victory over Loyola University. Notre Dame is off until Saturday evening when the team travels to Knoxville to face fifth-ranked Tennessee. 
The Irish had a balanced scoring attack against the Ram­blers, with five players in double figures. Freshman Kristin Knapp scored a career­high 21 points and pulled down nine rebounds to lead all scorers. 
"Coach (Muffet) McGraw has always known that I can score, but she's been asking me to do more rebounding and defensive work on the blocks, and I've been trying to up that part of my game," Knapp said. "I can

IIR•m•;rqD<I-:~~--·, 
rebound the way I did tonight
The Observer/David Lee 
all the time, but it's just a matter of doing it." 
Karen Robinson was one of five Notre Dame players to score in double 
Junior Margaret Nowlin 
digits Tuesday night, adding 13 points. 
added 16 points and 11 

Fencers maintain· perfect record 
\By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Undefeated and unchal­lenged, Notre Dame's fencing teams traveled to Princeton last weekend to face their toughest competition of the regular season. 
Though both the men's and women's teams faced stiffer challenges in New Jersey than they had against Midwestern foes, their records escaped un­scathed. 
The Irish men (20-0) rolled to victories over eight opponents, and won all but one event over the weekend. 
The Irish sabre team, led by Leszek Nowosielski, went unde­feated at Princeton, downing Brown, Cornell, Duke, North Carolina, North Carolina State, New York University, Princeton and St. John's by a combined score of 60-12. 
Nowosielski was 15-0 in the tournament. Other Irish stand­outs included Chris Baguer and James Taliaferro, who brought in identical 12-3 records, while Ed Baguer was 8-1 for the Irish. 
Notre Dame's epee squad won all eight of its matches as well, taking 53 of 72 bouts. David Calderhead won 21 bouts for the Irish, while losing only three. Junior Jubba Beshin was 15-3, and freshman Grzegorz Wozniak went 15-7 for the weekend. The epee team did not falter against any opponent, 
see FENCING I page 17 

N D ready for LaSalle challenge 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
A basketball team which loses a consensus Player of the Year, the school-record holder in nine categories, including most points and most games played, can usually be expected to experience some rough times when that star leaves. 
For the LaSalle Explorers, that hasn't happened. Despite the graduation of Lionel "The L-Train" Simmons, the Explor­ers have been able to keep up their excellent level of play, notching a 14-3 record so far this season. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps is wary of the Simmons­less Explorers, who roll into the Joyce ACC tonight at 8 p.m. to take on the Irish (8-13). Notre Dame will be looking to avenge last year's 86-78 loss at LaSalle's hands. 
"With Simmons out, every­body thought that this LaSalle team may not be as strong, but I think they're very good. It's obvious. Their record shows it," Phelps said. 
LaSalle's strength clearly

"-rests in its backcourt, which is led by 6-3 point guard Doug Overton, an All-American can­didate. Overton is among the leading scorers in the country, averaging 25.7 points per game phia's Public League. Woods is also an explosive scorer, ac­counting for 22.1 points a game. Against Loyola Mary­mount earlier this season, 

see LASALLE I page 16 
and 4.82 assists. He tied with Simmons for high-point honors against the Irish last year in Philadelphia with 27. 
Overton is joined in the back­court by Randy Woods, like Overton a product of Philadel­rebounds before fouling out with 4:30 remaining. Karen Robinson tallied 13 points and eight assists, Krissi Davis 11, and Sara Liebscher, 10. 

"We've had that kind of bal­ance all year, but not so much in one game. It's a great sign to have a couple of people in double figures," McGraw said. 
Stephanie Schink led Loyola with 20 points and seven re­bounds, and Cindy Pruim added· 10 points. Sherry Metz, the Ramblers' leading scorer coming in to the game, was held to only five points on the night. 
Both teams played sloppily in the early going as the Ramblers committed seven turnovers and the Irish six in the first seven minutes of the game. Notre Dame was down four quickly, but ran off 17 unanswered points to take a 21-8 lead with 
11:17 to go in the first half. 
Knapp scored eight of Notre Dame's next 12 points as the Irish extended their lead to 15 with 5:26 remaining before set­tling on a 37-25 halftime advan­tage. 
Notre Dame came out red-hot to start the second half, going on a 23-2 run in the first six minutes to put the game out of reach. The Irish led 60-27 with 13:45 remaining, and coasted from there. 
"We didn't play up to our po­tential on defense," Schink said. "We can play a lot better than we did tonight." 
Davis had nine points during the spurt, including her 1,OOOth career point on a free throw with 19:08 to go. She is only the eighth player in Irish history to accomplish that feat. 
For the game, Notre Dame shot 50 percent from the field, while holding Loyola to only 
40.3 percent. The Irish also outrebounded the Ramblers 45­31. 
Turnovers once again plagued Notre Dame. The Irish had 26 overall-18 in the first half-while also forcing 25 from Loyola. It is one of the areas of concern for Notre Dame as it looks ahead to Saturday. 
"In the beginning of the sea­son, we were a running team. We ran the ball all the time, but at the same time, we were playing smart and protecting the ball" Knapp said. "But in the past few games, we've been running a little bit, but we've had more turnovers. We need to work on little things like that and mentally prepare for Tennessee." 
Dillonites like to fall for 'Wuss' Hockey 
Delicately placing the blades of his skates onto the ice, Mark Scarmack abandons the security of the ice rink's handrail and stands, tentatively, on the slick surface. He holds a hockey stick in his gloved hands, wears a helmet and probably has either knee pads or elbow pads at his disposal. 
Inching his way down the rink, the 6­foot-4, 250-pound specimen is passed by Scott Brutocao several speeding skaters, all wielding sticks and wearing helmets. Scarmack Irish Items looks one way, then another, dazzled by the whir of oncoming bodies. 


He resumes his steady pace. 
Before he knows it, a referee sounds a whistle, and a puck is inserted into the the middle of the rink. Suddenly Scarmack is watching people handle the puck with consummate inexper­tise. 
The puck comes close to him and his defensive position obli­gates him to stop advancing intruders from scoring a goal. He turns quickly, quite unlike he is accustomed to doing while still retaining his balance, and falls to the ice with a resounding thud. 
Chuckling, tittering and full-blown laughing ensues from the gallery. 
Where are we? 
We're at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center ice rink, watching Dillon Hall's fabled Wuss Hockey league, a late-night demonstration of bumbling athletic prowess. 
What is Wuss Hockey? It's a realistic name for a league comprised almost entirely of Dillon and former Dillon residents playing hockey, late at night, against each other. Of course, if you have previous hockey experience, you're not allowed to shoot at the goal, and if you're on the Notre Dame team, you can't play. 
The dorm rents the JACC ice rink on weekend nights when most people in the South Bend community are busy sleeping, and charges each team a flat fee for ice time. For the cost, these Dillonites get to play five one-hour hockey games, broken up over about six weeks. 
Aside from a few significant bumps and bruises, the players receive an ungodly amount of fun, too much fun to miss for a measly party on campus or a night at the bars. By the end of the game, the players are usually tired, exhilarated and in search of a shower. 
"It's the most fun I've ever had playing a sport," says senior Dave Kraemer. His roommate, Pat McQuillan, sees the rare opportunity implicit in the sport. 
"When are you going to get a chance to play hockey on a real 
rink with your friends, huh?" he asks, presumably rhetorically. "How often is that going to come up, huh?" 
Others share in his evaluation. Lisa Datz, a senior in Walsh, 
see WUSS I page 18 







