
VOL. XXIII NO. 125 THURSDAY , APRIL 11, 1991 
--THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Williams is optimistic after visit to South Africa 
By JOSEPH ADAMS Father Williams said that he impressed with the ANC's News Writer "came prepared to hear about "sophistication" in accomplish­economic sanctions" and why ing "the transition from a lib­
Father Olivnr Williams, asso­the ANC supported their con­eration movement to a political eiatll provost. is optimistic tinuation. Instead. he heard party." He emphasized the about tlw current situation in the ANC's leaders express their rapid change by contrasting the South Africa aftnr rnturning desire for an improved rela­ANC's headquarters in 1986, "a from a visit in which he met tionship with American compa­small shed." with its present lo­with key black leaders. includ­nies. cation, a skyscraper in down­ing Nelson Mandela. Mbeki told Father Williams. town Johannesburg. 
In a lncturn Wednesday, Fa­"Our top priority is job cre­Father Williams also spent a ther Williams said hn was in aticm." saying that enhanced full day meeting with Zulu lead­South Africa during thn first economic opportunities are ers and representatives from two weeks of March as a mem­necessary "in preparation for religious and labor groups ber of a national committee post-apartheid South Africa." .. during his visit. Another high­trying to lind ways for the pri­Father Williams predicted that light of the trip was an oppor­vatn seetor to help dismantle the ANC will call for a halt to tunity to preach to a multiracial apartheid. lin met with South the sanctions before the end of audience in a Capetown Afriean black leaders, seeking the year. cathedral. their opinions on how to best Mbeki also was eager to He said that he was optimistic end apartlwid. "engage in dialogue with Amer­about South Africa's future, 
Fathnr Williams spent an ican companies" in order to adding, "To see the level of afternoon nHwting with leaders stimulate South African in­forgiveness and compassion, of th11 African National vestment. However, Father one has to believe the Holy Congmss (ANC). including Nel­Williams predicted that Ameri­Spirit is at work." son MandPla and Director of can business will not directly Specifically, he focused his 
Fon1ign Affairs. Tabo Mbeki. invest in South Africa until eco­optimism on two key events. Also pr11sent wer11 key nomic sanctions are officially The first one is President de m11mbnrs of th11 ANC's National halt11d. 
Executiv!l CommittHe. Father Williams said he was see WILLIAMS/ page 4 
NO makes progress in computer service; more ahead 
By DAVID KINNEY Spicer described the work stations. They are used the Development Office, Human • OUC was created, by rec­Assistant News Editor progress of the University both for public use and instruc­Resources, Student Information ommendation. to coordinate computing situation in terms of tional purposes. users, and other areas concern­and facilitate the University 
Notre Dame has made great the various recommendations: Most clusters are staffed by ing the operation of NO, ac­computing structure. stridns in fulfilling the comput­• Campus networking. A net­students, while others provide cording to Spicer. More work • Funding. "The University ing rwnds of students, faculty work, NDnet. is being set up to on-line or telephone access to remains to be done to accom­has developed a funding strat­and administration, but work connect various sites on cam­provide student assistance, said plish this goal. egy that has allowed OUC to must still lw done to incorpo­pus in order to "facilitate cam­Spicer. OUC, now employing • The Library Computing Sys­approach projects with assured ratP nPw tnchnology into the pus-wide communications and over 150 students, is one of the tem. OUC and the Library. said funding," said Spicer. curriculum. according to thP provide access ... to the Uni­major employers of students on Spicer, are combining informa­Despite the progress of the assistant provost for University versity's computing resources." campus. he continued. The tion organizations and access, University Computing Initiative, Computing. read the recommendation. The clusters are managed by the technology, and communica­there are still many issues that 
A four-ytmr campus comput­network will also link Notre User Services division of the tions in order to "enhance the still need to be addressed, ac­ing initiative was launched in Dame to national and regional Office of University Computing library catalog system." cording to Spicer. April of 1987. with the comple­networks. (OUC). • Support services. The Task While the 1987 report tion of a report by the Task However, said Spicer. "there • Mobile data projection units Force recommended that sup­"concentrated on building an Force on Computing at the Uni­are a multitude of electronics, have been provided by Educa­port services be expanded to infrastructure and an organi­versity of Notre Dame. Hecom­management, and service tional Media to faculty and de­provide "educational programs zation to support that infras­mendations werP also submit­issues whieh must be resolved partments needing a substan­and materials, consulting ser­tructure," said Spicer, "the tlld by thll University before a useable and useful tial amount of data projection. vices, general technical sup­primary issues now facing the Committee on Computing and network is available." According to Spicer. the future port. and assistance to faculty community and the OUC are Information Snrvices (UCCIS). • Public computer clusters. development of classroom in developing course-ware and how to leverage the results of 
"It appmtrs that slightly past The University responded workstations and projectors applying educational computing these efforts." the mid-point of thn Computing promptly to a request for public will be incorporated into the technology." The University must attempt lnitiativB," said Donald Spicer, clusters. primarily to fulfill the DeBartolo Building. The services are currently to use the technology to en­assistant provost for University needs of undergraduates. said • Administrative computing. being provided by several divi­hance the curriculum, teaching, Computing, "the major recom­Spicer. Currently, there are 10 To "maintain security, but ... sions of OUC, said Spicer: Sys­and learning at NO, and to bet­mendations have either been sites, providing 184 Macintosh, allow appropriate access to of­tems and Networking Services, ter information access. entirHiy fullillf1d or substantial 81 DOS, and 124 UNIX fices across campus," systems Administrative Computing, and progress has been made." microcomputers and high end have been instituted to support User Services. see COMPUTER/ page 4 


The Observer/ E. Peterson 
The budding trees are visible in the cloudy April sky. Warm temperatures of last week allowed both stu­dents and nature to prepare for spring. However, recent cool weather has emptied fieldhouse mall. 
Off-campus students choose freedom, change 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN and MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
News Writers 
In a 1975 survey, students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were asked why they chose to live off-campus rather than in one of Notre Dame's residence halls. 
Although years have passed since this data was compiled, current students of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College continue to voice many of the same reasons for making the move off campus as their pre­decessors once did. 
Fifteen years ago. nearly 1,400 students had residence outside of the campus bound­aries of Notre Dame in compar­ison to today's present total of 1,066. 

Off -Campus Housing 
FIRST OF A TWO PART SERIES 

Saint Mary's College reports that the number of students moving off-campus over the past live years has increased by live percent. 
The larger number of past ND undergraduates living off­campus was due to the lottPry system used then that dHter­mined who would live in the dorms. At th1~ time of the sur­vey, 27 percent cited the lottery as their reason for living off­campus. 
Currently, the 1990-1991 school-year 's total number of 
see HOUSING I page 4 


--~---~---------·---------~-------------­

e2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Minoso is all that baseball should be 
Major League Baseball: America's pastime. Bull. 
The source of this attitude is a story about former Chicago White Sox great Minnie Minoso. Minoso, a perennial fan favorite known for his 


propensity for crashing John O'Brien into walls, was about to Accent Editor 
become the first player i • ..________ baseball history to play in six decades. 
No, the 68-year-old Minoso hasn't been playing for 60 years-his career began in the '40s and continued until the late '60s. However, Bill Veeck, the former owner of the Chicago White Sox and baseball's greatest showman, put Minnie in for 3 games in 1976 so he could have played (technically) in four decades. 
In 1980, Minoso was brought back for two at­bats, thus his career covered 5 decades. 
Now, in the '90s, baseball has become oh-so serious. Last summer, in Old Comiskey Park's last season, Minnie was slated to bat again. No no no, said Baseball Commissioner Fay Vmcent, that would take away from the game's integrity. 
Vincent should have said, "Bah. humbug." 
Minnie's story surfaced again because Mike Veeck, Bill's son and owner of the Miami Miracle of the Florida State League, had planned to let Minnie bat this Saturday night. The League Commissioner nixed those plans. asking, "Is he a competitive player for the league or not." 
Well, no he isn't. But maybe competition can take a break for one minute. Baseball is a game-it's not a war and it's not life or death. IT'S JUST A DAMN GAME. 
Baseball is supposed to be fun, and Minoso was always that. Fans tell how he always played his heart out, running down every fly ball. The fact that he crashed into walls a lot makes him all the more endearing. People called him a klutz, but everybody loved him. 
For Bill Veeck, Minoso embodied the spirit o baseball. Veeck, who pioneered the exploding scoreboard and once put a midget up to bat for the St. Louis Browns, knew that baseball was "ust a game. He made it for the fans and he made it fun. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

•WASHINGTON D.C. -President Bush will nominate U.S. District Judge Emilio Garza of San Antonio to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, the White House said Wednesday. Garza, 43, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and the University of Texas School of Law, would succeed Thomas Reavley on the appeals court, which is based in New Orleans.Former President Reagan appointed Garza to the federal bench for the western district of Texas in 1988. He previously had been a district judge in Bexar County, Texas, and in private practice. 
OF INTEREST 

•Volunteer 
Recruiter Carla Doran, representing Christian Appalachian Project will be on campus today. She will be recruiting for permanent, temporary and summer positions at CAP. Stop by the library concourse from 10 a.m. to noon or the esc from 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. for more information. 

•Engineer's 
Week: Thermodynamic Thursday. There will be a sub lunch at 12:15 p.m. in the EG student center. At 3:30 p.m. on Cushing Quad will be the Calculator Toss. followed by the Paper Airplane Contest. A faculty-student wine and cheese reception will be held from 4:30 p.m. to 


6:30 p.m. at the University Club. At 9 p.m. is Beacon Bowling. Meet there. 
•SIGN-UPS FOR ANTOSTAL '91 EVENTS are being taken in the SUB office on the second floor of Lafortune from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. today and Friday. 
•Irish Guard Informational Meeting...Today at 4:30 
p.m. those interested in trying out for the Irish Guard next year should meet in the lobby (TV Room) of LaFortune. Questions, call Chris Woods 283-1606. 
•off-Campus Seniors please pick up your Senior Month Booklets at the Information Desk in Lafortune today. 
•Income Tax deadline. All International Students ­April15 is the normal date for filing taxes. If you need an 
Camobell's to show sodium content 
•CAMDEN, N.J.-Campbell Soup Co. has agreed to list its soups' sodium content in advertising that makes health claims. The company agreed to the change Monday to settle a 2-year-old complaint filed by the Federal Trade Commission. The agreement came under attack from the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which had asked the FTC to review Campbell's advertising. The FTC said Campbell advertisements linking the low-cholesterol, low-fat content of its soups with a reduced risk of some types of heart disease misled consumers because it did not alert them to the soups' high sodium content. 
Now, Bill Veeck is gone. Baseball is a world of million-dollar salaries and so-called "heroes" who wear shirts that say, "Leave me alone." 
Gone are the Bill Veecks, the Ernie Banks, the Minnie Minosos. Here to stay are the Jose Cansecos, the Deion Sanders, the Wade Boggs. 
Baseball is no longer "fun." It's "serious." It has "integrity." It 's business. 
As Mike Veeck said, baseball thought bringing Minnie Minoso back "would trivialize the game." 
Somewhere, somehow, Bill Veeck is shaking his head. The game the he gave his life to make fun is now saying that "fun" isn't what it's all about. 
Maybe someday Major League Baseball will remember what it's all about. Maybe someday Minnie will get his chance. Until then, I'll watch pro wrestling. At least pro wrestlers know they're a joke. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

News Graphics Peter Loftus Ann Marie Conrado Megan Junius 
VIewpoint Sports Barb Moran Dave McMahon Shannon Ryan 
Rich Riley Scoreboard Jim Vogl Business 

Colleen Gannon Accent Rich Riley Jahnelle Harrigan Laurie Sessa Systems Michael Whitman Pat Barth 
Brian Stalter Production Ann Buff Circulation Cheryl Moser Chris Hanely 
Lu Medeiros 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

extension, please visit the ISO Lounge on Friday, 11 a.m. to 4:30p.m. or Monday 1:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m. 
•A Fireside Chat will take place April 12 from noon to 1 
p.m. in the ISO Lounge, second floor Lafortune. Lunch will be provided. Bob Moody will speak about Native American religious beliefs. 
•SOPHOMORES: 
JPW applications for Chairperson are available in Student Activities, third floor LaFortune. The deadline is Friday, April 12 at 5 p.m. 

•Notre 
Dame Video needs a new manager and new employees for next year. Applications available in the store, due Friday, April 12 by 5 p.m. Questions? Call Steve Perkins 283-1605. 

•1991 
Fisher Regatta is coming April 20. The deadline for boat entries is April12. For any information, hurry and call 283-3928. Ya Gotta Regatta! 

•The 
Cultural Diversity Student Government Board o Trustees committee is now accepting applications for the 1991-1992 committee. Applications can be picked up at the SGO office. Deadline: April 17. Questions? Call chairperson Joe Wilson at 283-1686. 

•Juniors 
-JPW pictures are available for pick up at the information desk in LaFortune. A student ID must be presented. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
1689: William III and Mary II were crowned as nut>rt>i<YTIC in Britain, two months after their reign as part of the "Glorious Revolution" that nalnn<u>n ames II. 
In 1814: Napolean Bonaparte abdicated as emperor 
ance and was banished to the island of Elba. 
of his command in the Far East. 
Ten years ago: President Reagan returned to House, 12 days after he was wounded in an assassi­
Thursday, April 11, 1991 The Observer page3 
Dean and registrar Winicur will resign in June 
Special to The Observer 
Daniel Winicur, dean of ad­ministration at the University of Notre Dame since 1985 and its registrar since 1983, will resign both positions June 30, ac­cording to the University's provost, Timothy O'Meara. 
Winicur will join Franklin College of Indiana as vice pres­ident for academic affairs and dean of the college .. 
"The University appreciates Dan's widely varied contribu­tions in teaching as well as administration over the last 21 
years," O'Meara said. 
"His new position is a great opportunity and gives him broad scope to use his exten­sive experience in support of Franklin College's educational mission. He has the support and best wishes of his Notre Dame colleagues for success in the years ahead," he said. 
An associate professor of chemistry and a research scientist in Notre Dame's 

Radiation Laboratory, Winicur Daniel Wlnlcur 
joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1970. 
Prior to his appointment as registrar, he was assistant dean of the College of Science for four years. A specialist in chemical physics, he continued for several years to teach and to pursue his research in kinet­ics and spectroscopy of free radicals, chemical dynamics and kinetics, and energy trans­fer studies using crossed molecular beams. 
Winicur earned his doctorate from the University of Califor­nia at Los Angeles in 1968 and was a research fellow at the California Institute of Technol­ogy before coming to Notre Dame. 
The New York City native was graduated from the City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineer­ing and earned his master's in mechaniCal engineering from the University of Connecticut. 
Winicur and his wife, Sandra, have a son, Zev, and a daugh­ter, Paula. 
Prof. discusses Amazon deforestation and solutions 
By JEFF CABOTAJE 
News Writer 
Although attention to the tropical rain forests came to the general public, and particu­larly political leaders, only very recently, the problem has been developing for more than 20 years. according to a guest bi­ology professor in a lecture Wednesday. 
Jean Langenheim, professor of biology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said that there has been immediate attention to the deforestation of the Amazonian rain forest and to the threat of increasing carbon dioxide in the atmo­sphere and of global warming, in her lecture, "Amazonian Rain forests: Past, Present, and Future," 
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, Brazil attempted to colonize parts of the Amazon region, hoping to develop the land. 
Approximately 8,000 Brazil­
.0 IP 1.£ 1~1 I]J I]]) l.ll.l :~$1.£ 
DEPARTMENT OF MHTHEMHTI CS 
Open to all students who are Interested In learning more about the Mathematics programs at Notre Dame. 
TON IGHT: Hprll 11, 
Thursday, 6:30 PM 
Room 214, Computing Center end Mathematics Building 
ians were brought into the Amazon to live and colonize on their given plots of land. How­ever, as Langenheim noted, poor roads and disease stopped any further attempts. 
Necessary burning of the land occurred during colonization, according to Langenheim. Yet, it became a huge problem when cattle ranches held by large corporations were involved. By 1987, the amount of smoke in the area had reached its highest peak. 
According to Langenheim, NASA did a study of a portion of the Amazon and concluded that 8,000 fires occurred each day and 240,000 each year and that each fire added 10 percent to the global contribution of greenhouse gases. 
After release of this informa­tion, the Brazilian president demanded a cease of the fires. 
Since then, said Langenheim, the Brazilian government had been spreading the word that a decline was in effect. 
However, there were contra­dictions. 
The government claimed that only five percent of the Amazon had been deforested while World Wildlife claimed 10 per­cent. 
Langenheim said that much of the confusion arises from the fact that there are no precise figures on deforestation . 
She said that now the scien­tific challenges facing the fu­ture of the Amazon are both 

LAST CALL 
Semester Around the World 
Japan, Hong Kong, China, Nepal, India, Thailand 
16 Semester credits In uerlous subjects Open to ell ND­SMC students 
CHLL: Dr. Pullepilly at 284-4468 or 272-0889 
'1]r1flflE I~JlJ iJ .ID 1~1 IT; [ID Ml I.P liD ~~ liD rn.l 1~1 liD ~ 
. 

(not performing at NRZZ) 
THE STUDENT UN ION BURRO MUSIC COMMISSION IS LOOKING FOR RN OPENING BRND FOR THE GUESS WHO SCHEDULED TO PLRY ON SHTURDRY, APRIL 27. DROP TAPES OF OR I G I NRLS TO BE JUDGED IN THE MUSIC COMMISSION MRILBOH IN THE SUB OFFICE ON THE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
THE DERDL INE FOR ENTRIES IS F R I DRY, R P R I L 1 2 RT 5 PM. 
the understanding of complex 
ecosystems and the preserva­
tion of biodiversity within the 
ecosystem balanced with sus­
tainable utilization of forests. 
Suggesting possible solutions 
to problem in the Amazon, 
Langenheim said, "As scien­
tists, more people can go into 
tropical research." 
"If we do go into tropical re­search, we're still at a point where most of the developing countries need us to help train them, but it must be done with sensitivity to the needs that they have and not as we per­ceive them.," he said. 
"Although it may be demand­ing, serve on decision-making government agencies," he said. 
Citizens, Langenheim sug­gested, can join action groups (such as Rain forest Action Network, Nature Conservancy International, and World Wildlife), buy acres of land through Nature Conservancy, or buy certified tropical woods (such as teak, mahogany, moss­wood, and ebony). 
She also mentioned compa­nies' attempts in preserving the rain forests. The fast food chain McDonald's, for example, has distributed pamphlets describ­ing its efforts in not using beef from any rain forest area. 
Also, a subsidiary of Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream has started selling "Rain forest Crunch" -a mix of Brazil nuts. The com­pany has indicated on its pack­age that 20 percent of its prof­its will be donated to rain forest based preservation groups. 
Langenheim's lecture was the third installment of NO's Col­lege of Science Nieuwland Lec­tures in Biological Sciences. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, APRIL 8TH 
9:52 a.m. Security assisted a construc­tion worker who had fallen off a beam to St. Joseph's Medical Center . 
4:10 p.m. Security responded to an automobile accident on US 33 near Douglas Road. Two automobiles sus­tained property damage. 
6:45 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported vandalism to his automobile while parked on the west side of the stadium. 
8:23 p.m. A Siegfried resident reported a suspicious person on the first floor of Siegfried Hall. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 9TH 
11:59 a.m. A University employee re­ported that his automobile had been vandalized while parked behind the Rockne Memorial. 
2:30 p.m. A Stanford resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
10:37 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported being followed and approached by a suspicious person. 
11:38 p.m. Security assisted an off­campus student to St. Joseph's Medical Center for Injuries sustained during a basketball game. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10TH 

10:45 a.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of her decal from her automobile. 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1991 
Boston's busing crisis may return to court soon 
BOSTON (AP) -Boston's school desegregation crisis may return to court nearly 20 years after it began with stormy protests over court-ordered busing, and nearly one year after many hoped it had ended. 
Black parents filed a request last week to reopen a discrimi­nation lawsuit, saying the school system has not hired enough black faculty or spent enough on building mainte­nance. 
"The bottom line: they didn't comply," Robert Pressman, an attorney representing the par­ents, said Wednesday. 

Pressman said the school sys­tem has about 18 fewer full­time black faculty than the 25 percent minority goal set by a federal judge last year. 
The request is the latest chapter in the case that began in March 1972, when black parents charged the city with maintaining two separate school systems, one for whites and another for blacks. 
U.S. District Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. agreed, issuing orders to integrate the schools through cross-district busing and to increase the ranks of minority educators. 
In 1974, the nation watched as cursing, rock-throwing hordes greeted the first black students arriving at predomi­nantly white South Boston High School. 
Garrity ordered the city in May 1990 to spend $13.5 mil­lion on its aging buildings. 
Pressman said the schools will spend only $11.7 million this year. 
School officials did not deny the allegations. They said they will respond after meeting with an attorney and hope to resolve the complaint out of court. 
"We are committed to our obligations to hiring black and other minority staff," said Larry Faison, spokesman for acting superintendent Joseph McDonough. 
As of March, the Boston 
schools employed 4,361 teach­ers. Of those, Faison said, 65.44 percent were white, 23.92 percent were black and 10.6 percent were of other minority backgrounds. 
The Boston Teachers Union said it continues to oppose a portion of Garrity's order upholding affirmative action in hiring. The union wants to pro­tect its members' seniority in case of layoffs due to budget cuts, vice president Tom Gos­nell said. 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
students off-campus reflects an increase over the 1989-1990 semesters. The rise in the number of students living off­campus is due to an unavail­ability of on-campus housing, according to the University's Office of Student Residences. 

However, many of today's students live off-campus by choice. Whether it results from a desire for more responsibility and less regulation or simply a change from the routine of res­idence hall life, students are moving to off-campus accom­modations. 
Notre Dame student Jack Bentz, a resident of Castlepoint Apartments, says living off­campus is "like a real home; it's your own place... 1 definitely love it." 
Campus View tenant, Jeannie Sabin, also enjoys "coming home to a real home." She prefers the freedom off-campus living provides. She added that she feels "safer [at Campus View] than at Saint Mary's." 
Claudia Limbarto, another Campus View resident and Notre Dame student, stated that Campus View was the "perfect college apartment for a year." 
The Office of Residence Life at Notre Dame offers informa­tion to students who are inter­ested in moving off-campus. They allow various local real­tors and landlords to advertise through its office. 
Tomorrow's paper will fea­ture options available to those interested in alternative resi­dences than those which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer. 
Williams 
continued from page 1 
Klerk's stated intention to re­move the "last three pillars of apartheid: the Land Act, The Population Registration Act, and the Group Areas Act." 
The suspension of these im­portant laws means the abol­ishment of statutory apartheid. Father Williams said that in the major cities "de facto apartheid has already broken down" be­cause the official apartheid laws are not being enforced." 
He said the new policy will have its greatest impact in ru­ral areas. He predicted that "tension between poor whites and blacks" will become even greater as blacks start to com­pete for jobs previously held by whites. This problem is not as prevalent in urban areas where whites are more economically secure. 
The second major event was 
Computer 
continued from page 1 
The UCCIS has formed four working groups to address the major areas of concern regard­ing the computing situation: student access, instructional technology, distribution issues, and research. The underlying goal of the groups, according to Spicer, is to show faculty and students "what's available in the classroom besides chalk and talk." 
"The University has done a poor job of extending options," said Jeff Sepeta, former OUC lab consultant and student in­structor. While the University has done a good job in laying the ground work for the Uni­versity computing network, he said, they need to push the technology to its potential. 
The University must also offer more services to aid those using public computer clusters on campus, according to Sepeta. OUC has not concen­trated enough on hiring trained, knowledgeable stu­dents in order to help students using the clusters, he said. 
In addition, students must realize that the technology available can be used for more that simply typing papers, said Sepeta. "Students have power to do a lot more things," he said. 
Sepeta encouraged students to attend the evening courses in order to learn how to better organize thoughts, make pa­pers look better, and save time when writing papers. 

the January 29 meeting be­tween ANC leader Mandela and Zulu leader Bethulezi. These opposing factions had been vio­lently warring in the townships and the meeting of their respective leaders represented a new willingness to cooperate. 
Father Williams said that a side effect of violent uprisings, the disruption of education, particularly worried Mandela. Mandela is concerned that eco­nomic apartheid will continue if blacks do not possess the skills to hold influential jobs. 
Father Williams said that in a "best case scenario," an "all party conference" consisting of every interested political group will take place before the end of the year. This conference will lay down the principles of a new South African constitution. 
The next step would be "to elect a constituent assembly to draft the constitution. Father Williams said that the design of the constitution can be accom­plished by 1992 while it can ac-
Capable. Affoidable. Adaptable. Affordable. 
T~rtable. 
Affordable. 

When it comes to increasing 
productivity at an economical price, there's no tool that's more able. 
Meet the Macintosh.,Classic"'computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it can handle avariety of basic home, office, and classroom applications, such as word processing and spreadsheet analysis. 
The Classic is acomplete Macintosh. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect-such as the ability to 
network and the Apple* SuperDriveN disk drive, which lets the Classic read from and write to MS-OOS, OS/2, and ProDOS"'ftles. 
The Classic can easily go where you need to go, when you need to go there. Its integrated design, light weight and built-in carrying handle are ideal for aperson on the move. 
So come in and see ademonstration. And see anew value in personal computing that couldn't be more respectable. Or affordable. 
Available. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Offitc of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 
Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00-5:00 
C> 1990 Apple Compolfr, Inc. Apple, !he Apple klgo, Madr<a;h, Superl)ri>< .00 l'rollOO are tqli!lered 1I2<ienwks dApple Coolpu!O', Inc. Classic i5 atqli!lered uad<mari< licensed to AppleCoolpuiC,Inc. MS-I)(l;oatqli!lereduad<mari<dMiaadtQxporatim W2•a"'!!L"'freduad<mari<dl-!!mineo;Mad>inesQxporatim 
tually be implemented by 1994. 
He said, "The last election of white-only voting has already taken place." He sees the fu­ture of South African politics as multiracial, adding that the next president must be elected by September of 1993. 
The lecture was part of the St. Edward's Hall Forum. 

-------~---------~-~-----­
Thursday, April 11 , 1991 The Observer page 5 
Former clinic owner speaks out against abortion 

get their commission so they did," said Everett. "scrape out some of the lining She also said that people of the uterus from the woman don't realize the effect is not who is not pregnant," said Ev­solely on the mother. Everett erett. The increased rate of in­added that her own son won­fertility is a result of abortions dered if she had intended to on non-pregnant women, ac­abort him. "Abortion breaks cording to Everett. the family unit down," said Ev­
erett. 
Everett left the abortion business after a local television Having been on the other side station sent non-pregnant re­of a protest, Everett encour­porters wired for sound into the aged the endeavors of pro-life clinic to see if the abortionists activists. She added that would perform the operation. protestors can discourage Finally, Everett realized she prospective abortion patients as was suffering from "empty well as the employees working womb syndrome" as a result of in the clinics. her own abortion years before. Concluding the lecture spon­
This personal experience sored by ND/SMC Right to Life, helped Everett relate other the Year of the Women, and problems with abortion. Pax Christi-NO, Everett ex­"Seventy five percent of the re­pressed the importance of lationships break up after the reestablishing America's stan­abortions, as my own marriage dards and the sanctity of life. 
Holy Cross Sisters break ground for new SMC hotel 
By MAUREEN Also at the presentation was John O'Connell, President of
SCHNEEBERGER 
Holy Cross Shared Services who 
Saint Mary's News Editor said, "The sisters feel it will 
benefit the college and the
Wednesday morning, the Sis­whole community. The inn, aters of the Holy Cross broke 
three-story glass and wood
ground for The Inn at Saint structure, will be an up-scaleMary's, the new hotel to be 
hotel at a reasonable price." 
erected on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The hotel committee had heldA group of about 100 people, a community-wide contest toincluding members of the col­name the new building, offering lege and campus management, a free weekend at the hotel asjoined the sisters in the Angela 
the grand prize. Jaqueline
Athletic Facility to dedicate the Norris, a financial advisor tonew building. 
the Holy Cross council, submit­ted the winning entry of ThePresent at the ceremony were Inn at Saint Mary's. A total ofJohn Phair, representative for 204 entries were submitted.
the Holladay Corp. in South Bend, who will be running the 
The ceremony, which washotel; Sister Thomas More, originally to be held at the
president of the Sisters of Holy corner of Douglas Rd. and U.S.
Cross; Frank Perry, the project 31, was moved to the inside of
manager; and Dorothy Feigl, 
Angela Athletic Facility due to
Vice President and Dean of 
the cold weather. 
Faculty. 

By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
Although the facts say 98 percent of all abortions today aro for birth control, pro-choice advocates claim rape and incest as roasons for abortion clinics, according to Carol Everett, a former part-owner of an abortion clinic. 
Everett, whose lecture was sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life, aimed to expose an indus­try that is involved in a war "that has killed more than all other wars totalled." 
Everett asked her listeners to remember that "abortion is not about rape or incest, abortion is not about rights or choices, abortion is about money." 
She related events from her own abortion clinic chain in Dallas-Fort Worth in order to 
Touching up 
reveal the true nature of abor­tion clinics. According to Ev­erett, "Doctors and physicians save lives, abortionists take lives for money." 
Everett estimated that a physicians earnings for deliver­ing a baby break down to be­tween $100 and $200 per hour. Abortionists doing ten to twelve abortions per hour for $75 per abortion make from $750 to $900 per hour. 
Everett added that the abor­tionists at her clinic were paid in cash at the end of the day. "It was left entirely to the dis­cretion of that man who was killing babies for a living, what he reported to IRS," said Ev­erett. 
Everett testified in a court case in which an abortionist admitted to making $45,000 per month. Everett said the 
Saint Mary's senior, Mary Raich, wipes off her brushes after making final touch ups while preparing to display her paintings for Senior Composites on Friday at Moreau Gallery, Saint Mary's College. 
problem is that a doctor is not needed for an abortion because it is legal for anyone to perform one. She said, "You or I could legally perform an abortion right here tonight." 
Everett exposed certain means by which abortion clines maximize profits. Instead of placing the babies in jars which cost seventy five cents each, Everett said, the abortions at her clinic ended up in the garbage disposal. 
She also added that the abor­tions too large for the garbage disposal were wrapped in tow­els and left at other clinics so the fetuses would not be found in her clinic's garbage. 
Everett also talked about performing abortions on non­pregnant women. Abortionists must produce tissue in order to 
The Observer/ Michelle Roch 

~----~---------------------·-. 
page6 The Observer Thursday, April 11 , 1991 
Survey sharpens image of religious nation 
• th U S 
---~ 
IOnS In e • • 
Estimates of the number of persons 18 or over in each group. Projected from weighted results of ICR Survey Research Group's telephone interviews with 113,000 Amencan adults. 
Christians 
Total Christians: 151,668,000 
Presbyterian 

Episcopalian-Anglican •.':•.'.::r.,••:··~U'I·",UI~i<)
.· ::·· .• 

Mormon-LOS •.•2~48ir.ooo {::::{ 
Jehovah's Witness . Seventh Day Adventist liriooo Assembly of God iiw;o,oo 
Evangelical-Born Again 
Church of God 
. :-:-:: 
Congregational E••.• •'•• 
Greek Orthodox 13&4;000 Quaker-Mennonite I®~;QOO Christian Science i~J;boo Brethren f#liboo Disciples of Christ lli;Poo New Apostolic tit~~]ooo Worldwide Church of God fii~Ooo 
Russian Orthodox ~·~· Charismatic tllo Wesleyan 10lo Christian Reform rllo Eastern Orthodox ~~~~0 Church of God in Christ fllo Fundamentalist lftf.l~ Independent Church ~~~ Four Square Gospel fg. 

•no denominatiOn SUpplied ~~~djUSted '(0~ ~ndefCO~ntS dUB tO f~nguage nmm>m'IS 
Souroe: The National Survey of Religious Identifications, 1989-90, by the City University of New York Graduate School and University Center 
AP/Karl Tate 
NEW YORK (AP)-New re-
Iigions and immigration from the Far East and Arab world have barely dented the over­whelmingly Christian composi­tion of the U.S. population, a 13-month survey of 113,000 adults has found. 
Study director Barry Kosmin of the City University of New York Graduate School called the findings the most extensive religious profile available of 20th century America. 
The survey found 86.5 per­cent of Americans identified with Christian denominations, including 26 percent Roman Catholic and 60 percent Protes­tant. 
Only 2 percent refused to re­veal their religious identifica­tion, and only 7.5 percent said they had no religion. 
Richard John Neuhaus, edi­tor-in-chief of First Things, a monthly journal on religion and public life, said it should come as no surprise that Americans are so pervasively religious. 
Neuhaus said the one sur­prise for him in reading about the survey was the researcher's conclusion, after accounting for language barriers in the poll, that Muslims represent 0.5 percent of the U.S. population, or 1.4 million Americans. 
"I think over the last five years, most of us in this busi­ness have used the figure of 3 million plus," Neuhaus said Wednesday. 
The finding indicates that half of Arab-Americans either have Christian origins or converted in America. 
About 40 percent of the Mus­lims are black, but only 2 per­cent of the blacks surveyed are Muslim. 
The survey also found that most Asian-Americans are not Muslims, Buddhists or Hindus, but Christians. And most of those who say they are of Irish ancestry are Protestants, not Catholics. 
"Another surprise was the way the so-called new religions were much smaller than we an­ticipated," said professor Sey­

mour Lachman, CUNY dean for community development. 
The researchers estimated that 20,000 adults describe themselves as adhering to the New Age spiritual movement, which combines mysticism, psychology and holistic healing. 
"It's something that's just swirling through the culture," Neuhaus said. While such movements may get a lot of media attention and generate high book sales, they include "a lot of people in the Christian category that flirt with New Age and other esoterica," he said. 
Kosmin said his estimates should not be expected to match figures given out by de­nominations, which use varying standards for counting. 
"This is not religious affilia­tion. These are people's percep­tions of what they are," Kosmin said. "If I want to call myself a duck, I'm a duck even though I can't swim and haven't got feathers." 
The U.S. Census does not ask about religion. Nationwide polls often do, but their samples of 1,000 or 2,000 people include too few Muslims, Hindus and other minorities to make reliable conclusions about them. 
The City University re­searchers had ICR Survey Re­search Group of Media, Pa., provide information from stan­dard poll questions used in 2,000 telephone interviews a week with a random cross-sec­tion of adults in the 48 con­tiguous states. Much of the survey was conducted last year, and the results were released this month. 
Sampling error should not cause overall results to vary from what all Americans would say by more than a fraction of a percentage point. The margin is larger for smaller samples. And some small groups might be understated because mem­bers are reluctant to identify themselves. 
U.S. Army desertion trial starts 
FORT POLK, La. (AP) ­Seven Army officers began deliberations Wednesday in the court-martial of a National Guard soldier accused of organizing an abortive mass desertion from a base where they were training for Persian Gulf combat. 
Sgt. Robert Pete, 24, faced up to 20 years in prison if found guilty by the panel of officers. 
Pete is one of three members of 3rd Battalion, 156th Infantry, based in Lake Charles, who faced charges of attempted desertion, conspiracy to desert, solicitation to desert and arranging a strike or demonstration involving members of the armed forces. 
Spc. Dwayne Brown, 19, and Spc. Derrick Guidry, 24, face courts-martial later on identical charges. Guidry also is charged with disrespect to an officer and giving a false statement. Brown is to go on trial Thursday; Guidry, on April 24. 
They were accused of plotting an early-February desertion by roughly 100 guardsmen to protest conditions at Fort Hood, Texas. Enthusiasm for the plan fizzled and officers got wind of the plan, according to Tuesday's testimony 
In closing statements, prosecutors cited testimony of officers, fellow guardsmen and a television reporter contacted by the men to show that they planned a media protest at Lake Charles in addition to the desertion. 

All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin. Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information. call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
f!f----­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME I NDIAf\:A 
JiD®~IT ~®W9 
~£IT lli£1XIEJJ1~ 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT • WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of. employment when you apply to save time. 
NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOO MAY QUALH FOR ANY OF THE FOUO\VIC LOANS BASBJ ON YOUR SIGNATIH. 
- MASTERCARD· 16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your  
first year as part of this special offer.  
~  QUICK CASH·  13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this  
loan, you simply write a check!  
~  RELOCATION·  9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to  
~  repay. You must also have our  
Mastercard and line-of-credit.  

Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Sepa/llle from 1118 ~ 


Thursday, April 11, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Patient settles suit in 
I

vacc1ne sex case 
1988, when she was a student at Fordham University. 
The woman was suffering from a minor urinary tract in­fection when Fordham officials referred her to Soto, who was under contract with the school. 
Soto admitted to the state Board of Professional Medical Conduct that he lied when he told the woman she was suffer­ing from herpes, and that he could obtain a secret vaccine. He told her the most effective way to administer the vaccine was through sexual inter­course. 
The woman also is suing Fordham for $4.5 million, claiming the school was re­sponsible for Soto's conduct. That suit is pending. 
Sullivan warns sports fans about sponsors 

SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -A woman has settled her lawsuit against a former doctor who she claimed tricked her into having sex by saying it was the best way to administer a secret vaccine. 
Both sides agreed not to dis­close the amount of the settle­ment reached Tuesday, said at­torney Joseph Fahey, who rep­resented the 21-year-old sub­urban Syracuse woman. Her lawsuit against Julio Soto of New York City had sought $1.05 million. 
Justice Robert Nicholson ruled in October, based on un­contested facts in the case, that Soto had committed medical malpractice. The state Board of Regents revoked Soto's medical license last year because of his conduct with the woman in 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Health Secretary Louis Sullivan on Wednesday asked people to think twice about attending sporting events sponsored by tobacco companies. 
"As individuals, Americans can send a message to the to­bacco compani!1s in the only language they appear to under­stand -the language of money," Sullivan said in re­marks prepared for a smoke­less tobacco conference in Columbus, Ohio. Copies of his speech were released in Wash­ington. 
"The message is that we will no longnr financially support promoters of sporting evnnts and others who would encour­age our children to use addic­tive substances which will ruin their health and send them to an early grave," he said. 
Sullivan did not use the word "boycott." Nor did his spokesman when asked about the address. 
"He's calling on all people to recognize that when a sporting event is sponsored by a tobacco company, that event is being used to promote tobacco use and he's asking them to make the decision as to whether they want to support that kind of promotion," said Campbell Gardett, a spokesman for the secretary. 
Sullivan does not attend sporting events sponsored by 

GLENN CLOSE ·JEREMY nms 
~SILVER 

lllilEit\\Lo/~l)~~~ 
1991 ACADEMY AWARD WIN R-BEST ACTOR 
Cinema at the Snlte 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:45 
tobacco companies, Gardett said. 
The secretary said he was appealing to individuals to tar­get tobacco companies because his plea a year ago to the in­dustry to stop sponsoring sporting events "fell on indif­ferent ears." 
He said "the disgraceful tradeoff in America between profits and good health must stop. But it will stop only when our citizens rise up and say 'enough-no more."' 
The secretary said he is par­ticularly concerned about the use of smokeless tobacco by boys and young men. 
After a three-year decline, sales of smokeless tobacco in the United States rose by 2 mil­lion pounds in 1989 to 116 mil­lion pounds, he said. Smokeless tobacco is a $1 billion a year industry. 
National surveys said that nationwide in 1988, more than 25 percent of boys ages 12 to 17 had tried some form of smokeless tobacco, and more than 6 percent had used it in the previous month. 
Sullivan cited a more recent survey by the Illinois Depart­ment of Public Health that said nearly half of all high school­age boys across the state had tried smokeless tobacco. 
According to the U.S. surgeon general, smokeless tobacco can cause cancer as well as non­cancerous oral conditions and can lead to nicotine addiction and dependence. 
Congress in 1986 banned smokeless tobacco advertising on television and radio and required health warnings on packages and in ads. 
Much of the culture of smokeless tobacco is rooted in sports, particularly in baseball, Sullivan said. 

1991 

SUMMER SESSIONS BROCHURES NOW RURILRBLE 
Courses offered In areas of: 
Arts & Sciences Business Education Professional Studies 

For more Information, call or write: Xavier University Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 (513) 745-3601 
Xavier UnlversHy Is an academic corrmunlly commlnad lo equal opportunMy for al persons regardless ol a e. sex, race. rell ion. handle~. or nallonal or ln. 
Student dies from punch 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP)-A 15-year-old athlete died of cardiac arrest from a high school friend's punch in the chest during a classroom "cuss game" popular with students. 
Flags at Oak Grove High School flew at half staff Wednesday as the school mourned Russell Edwards, one of its top athletes. 
Edwards died after the punching game in a Tuesday morning science class. He fell to the floor seconds after the punch to the chest by a 1-f-year-old friend. 
A member of the football, baseball and wrestling teams, Edwards was a campus sports star at a husky 150 pounds and 5­foot-1 0. Witnesses said he complimented his opponent on the "good hit," then died. 
The boy who punched Ed­wards was not identified by police. The boy was described as about 5-foot­1 0 and very strong, but not as big as Edwards. 
"The boy's totally devas­tated," homicide detective Sgt. Walt Robinson said Wednesday. 
"I just spoke with his grandmother and she says he hasn't slept since this occurred .... He keeps saying he's terribly sorry," Robinson said. 
Police and school officials said no charges will be filed in the case and that Edwards' family is sympathetic to the boy who punched Edwards. 
When the 14-year-old realized he had hurt his friend, he cried and prayed over Edwards"' body, witnesses said. Two teachers trained in cardiopulminary resuscitation tried to revive Edwards, who was later pronounced dead of cardiac arrest at a hospital. 
An autopsy was planned to verify the cause of death, but doctors said one blow to the chest could be fatal. 
"If the blow is delivered with enough force at precisely the right moment in the cycle of the heart, that could cause the heart to stop beating," said Dr. Edward Perper, associate chief of cardiology at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center. 
Fellow football player Kevin Williams said Edwards was easy to talk to and a good student. 



~travelmore 
~Car\son TrqVel Network
OHAnD OP[ntno
APRIL f3'~1991
1723 South Benet Avenve Ne.xtto frank's Rea Hots
9AM ,_ 2.PM 
nrtconr noTKr oAnr '' 
WIN AIRLINE TICkETS, PREI GIPTSAND MORI!! 
Phone: 21 I -4880 


...-r---...---~----~ ---~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1991
a e 8 

...................................................................................... 
Petitionfor Life 
I•
: 

"We, the undersigned, believe that every human, born and unborn, is an utterly unique and unrepeatable: being made in the image of God and entitled to that most basic of rights, the right to life. We condemn : abortion and all evils which affront this right. We firmly oppose the so-called right to an abortion-a right : which so ignores the rights of others that it allows us to destroy them-and lament the havoc which abortion: wreaks on its many victims, born and unborn. We believe that the taking of a human life can never be thet answer to the problems besetting women, and support instead the serious engagement of those problem • 
through constructive, rather that destructive means. We call for a solution free of violence and oppression-a solution enabling people to live as brothers and sisters respectful of one another's rights and responsible for one another's needs." 
Bill Keen Sean Gilboy David Nupper  Mary Lee Freeman Pat Cill Bill Gill  Michael J. Crowe Alfred J. Freddoso  Rob Pasin Jill Coakley  Margot O'Brien Charles E. Rice James A. O'Brien  Dan Foley Tom Martin  
Jeffrey Hoelscher Christopher G. Michel Charles McCarthy Andrew Campell Daniel Fulkerson Bill Gormley Nick Caulfield Bob Hannigan Bradley Shebib Michael Gaffney Kevin Yaley  Thomas Zurcher,CSC Pete Jarret,CSC Anthony Szakaly,CSC Kevin Heffernan Christopher Lox Chris Johnson,CSC Pert Muelle,CSC Bill Wack,CSC Robert Kloska Claire Johnson John Herman,CSC  Leslie H. Martin Cara Anthony Jim Hogan Tom Elmer Agnes A. Gloster Mary Faith Ranaghm Chenoa Topash Anne Surline Elli Reichelt Julie Hennigan Andrea Cavanaugh Jennifer Kulbieda  Barb Sain Mary Ann Tabben Eric Schimmel Lisa Gabany Mike Witzman Phil Tomsik Mary Rodgers Anna Maria McMorrow Karen Whitman Raissa Schickel Eddie Wetzel  John P. Baker Theresa Rice Michael A. Farnan G. Robert Blakey C 1F s Jun" ar · c IttTh G omas orman Douglas M. Kmiec Walter M. Rogers Rick Acker Chris Godfrey David McClarnrock Bernard Lau Townsend Lange  John Jacobs Rob Thomson Dave Hensler Debbie James Janet Libbing Alan Nicgorski Amy Lowery Arnie Halstead Margaret Schmidt Pat Moran Mark Hoffman Jay Budd  i I  
Joe Kingil  Donald Conny  Kathleen Collins  May Morales  John O'Karma  Michael Fitzpatrick  
Paul Radich  John Platte,CSC  Sr. Maureen Minihane, C.S.C. Elizabeth Bone  Michael Garvey  Stephan Smith  
Dave Fuentes Paul Kell Ken Wincko Kathleen Golski CraigAmith James Cohalan Bryan Farren Jim Trautmann Michael Mollet  James McDonald,CSC Fachna McCArthy Bill Pither,CSC Daniel Kayman,CSC Morgan Oailey Garry Jungels Alan Alexander Joe Dekautis TimMulleh  Fr. Greg Green A · C h"ll1~~e a Clarre Konopa Nancy Reuscher Diane Peters Joanna Hillman Deborah Goodrich Bobbie Jean Schleifer Alicia Ann Caputo Erin M. Tierney  Helen Anne Murphy Cathy Olsen Moira Murphy Joe Maneri Kevin Harris Eric Brown Peter Musty Chris Keisting Pat Vedra  Michael Napierkowski Charles Fisher Laurie Niemann Eric HorvathTreven Santi cola Eileen Smith Jon Miranda Laura Williams Mathew E. Ryan Jeanne Hoge John Mackie Sr. Marietta Murphy, I.H.~od Green Loretta Murray Andrew Schlidt Anne Marie McMorrow Dan Walter Ellen Rice Bill Blum Chris Estes Jim Guerrera  
Tom Norton  Gerard Lynch  Andrea Sullivan  Maria Rhomberg  Bill Miscamble, C.S.C.  Anthony Fiore  
Samuel Connor Patrick Peturson Chris10pher Beaudet Tun Mooney Jonathan Rock Rob Milles Steve Hank Mike Cox Jason Wilson Jeffray Dill  TimHaegan Dave Lyons Michael Parra Joe McManus Stan Kolis Randal Davis Erik Bias Peter Sweeney PeterNani Jude Benavides  Libby Costello M. Erin Quinn Peter Bajzek Steve Zavestoski Kevin Kaufman Jim Primich Nick Merry Crai Egan Joseph B. Gavigan Brian G. Faught Jason Wagner  Beth Ellbogen Susan Elias Linda Klein Karen Sanford Anne LaFleur Jennifer Babula Maureen Argue Catherine Hirschfeld Kristina Hannam Raquel Alviar  Joseph Summer Susan Merkel Nicole Wellman Maura Carroll Tanya Pinto Angel Farah Stan Teholmi Annmarie Mueller Julie J. White K · O'Gatle ara Maria Eva Jukic Colleen Malloy  John H. Odell Joe Honnigford Joseph 0. Blanco Justin Politi Ryan N. Roberts Mishael Rhatty Ed Lamb Jim Marcurio Tom Conaghan Stephen Schuerman Charlie Nighton  
Lee Euglen Vicent Rals  Frank Brenninkmeyer Kelly Bradley  . W hbKevm e Y Geoff Slevin  Katherioo Bambrick Evie McGovern  Stephanie Pile Tina Vukovits Kelly A. Morrison  He!.dl" Weber Peter Slamkowski  
Richard Trayman  Bill Rhomberg  Bill Mowle  Susan DiDonna  Susan Espinosa  Danny Keegan  
Bill Kempf  Mike Rozembajgiar  Ruth Thompson  Theresa McCaughey  Lisa Sabol  E. William Beauchamp  
Earl Johnson  Dan Dwyer  Jay Thompson  Colleen Hogan  Aimee L. Vessell  Richard Riley  
• Darnell Boyton DavidCerto David Sparks Rick Conners Ryan Mattening Nathan Uz Scott Gallagher David Lealy Paul Stin Scott Smoron  Maria Rukavina Susan Lochner Megan Frost Catherine Ryan Michelle Osmanski Joy Macintyre Sarah McGrath Kristina Vineyard Margaret Sweeney Sherry-Ann Morris  Joel Barstead Rober M. Elmer Mike Cotter Francis J. Flynn John Gugle Chris Corbett Kevin G. Monahan Ronald L. Thibert J ff C C S C e ooper, . . . s h Rtep en ucmcnappBrother Chet, C.S.C.  Brooke Backet Maria Rasso Shannon Schippereit Judy L. Hutchinson Kathy Hardieck Amy Janista Amy Coizmar Joanne Wallace S L S lduzanne . o ysK · p ·1 · kaue e1 st1c er Kristen Stamile  Kenna Weidner Anne M. FerrisBetsy Meyer Katie Creedon Eileen M. Gordon May Morales Kathleen Kolakovich Amy Young Barbara Henkels Kara Luckew Kr" K 1sten eneseyBrigid Cronley Kevin Corrigan  Magaret Smith Thomas Hur Michael K. Sain Gaeh M. Bowler Mary Scherzinger John P. O'Callaghan Suzanne Andres Anthony Andres John Ramos C.S.C. Loiue Rivetti, C.S.C. Regina C. Wilson  
Keith Johson  Nicole Verich  Michael McDermott  Kerry Rose Duggan  Lisa Gabany  Jeff Cooper, C.S.C.  
Stephan Sierra  Michelle Griffen  Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C.  Annie Castro  Maria Garvey  Maria Cataldo  
Gregory Scherk  Zaragoza Guerra  John Snyder  Mary Rodgers  Michael Krause  Gregory Wilde  
Joseph Hayes  Rob Hahn  Rebecca Schnucki  Vicki Sowko  Ellen Feeney  Judy Vaccaro  
Justin Hawtings  Jennifer Lynn Stor.e  Megan Barmister  Wendy Sanger  John Carozza  Jane M. Ward  
Chris Zepl  Tom Bayer  Kathie Henn  Miriam Bragdnza  Susan E. Loveless  Kathryn McMahon  
Joe Cantz Jeffrey O'Neill Marilyn Leueney  Marie Liddy Cathy Nolan Denis Nolan  Euleen M. Lyons Kristin Lewis Kathleen Kopecky  Anne. E. Broderick Ann C. Cook Emily Dwyer  David Brown Patricia Lynn Joe Cronley Eddie Lavelle  Marcie Poorman Angela Gugle Cynthia A. Chan  
M. ha 1Le1c e tteney Susan Shull  Th eresa Forst Patricia Lynn  Angela GentileD · avid Schindler Jr. Mike Gleason  Lisa Petursson Jackie BaylissSusan Petti  Colleen Conley Rebecca Kelleher Mary Brennan  Ellen FeeneyK th 0 enne sgooaChristina Qulong  
Bridget Deegan  Pat McCullough  David Glen  Jennifer Slate  Kevin Damitz  Russ Dinger  
Michael Evan  Mike Seelinger  Maria Mendoza  Roxanne Mendez  Sarah Keyes  Phyllis Barber  
Jeff Long  Vickie King  Amy Sillottemer  Eileen Deane  Manuel Espino  Jean Einloth  
Dan Mahan  Mike Clark  Dan Swietet  Kristin Sadie  Aimee Delach  Kathy Minas  
Maureen Castello  Glenn Cassidy  Mike Timbrinn  Kathy Hipp  romJasTP. Kelly  Ann Haban  
Tanja Pieters Kathie Barco  Tom Faller Richard Kenny  Susan Makin Sue Grabler  Angela Crandall Kathy Seggerson  R<:<>htt d. Kimaylor IC arSean Carroll  Amy Bugan Ann th C e a ox  
Joe Dimbero  Ed Palimisano  Mike Sheliga  Paul DeLave  William Merritt  Kristin Telas  
Steve Holtthaus  Sharon Tasca  Todd Foley  Angela Schueler  Kevin Peschke  Volve Blunlisten  
Michael Allen Jacob Landry Sr. Rose Lundergan Thomas M. Esch, CSC  Katrina Hilton Patrick Borderick Drew Dougherty Stephen Camilleri  Cheryl Williams David Zeringer Barbara BagenskiKathleen Aurigemma Steph Ferry  Michelle Jennings Tanya Braukman Noreen Pikuza Kathleen Vogt Cristin McCarthy  John Rooff Humberto Arriola J ames McMillin J h R c s c osep oss, · · · Karl Mejia  Kimberly Shea Elsa Scheidler David Banda D Ban eaton Thomas Marvel  
John Patrick Riley, CSC  Derek Schnack  Elsa Schaidler  Julie Connors  Pat Cady  Michael Mancuso  
Mike Coman, CSC  Mike Scrudato  Amy Campbell  Mary Ellen Townsend  ~=:.eb!ti~ane  Dan Gord  
Richard Kyle, CSC  Joe Fabbre  Elizabeth Lauinger  Anne Heaton  Blane Shearon  Nancy Dausman  
John Fortin  Ed Clark  Ann Marie Quast  Jill Poyadue  Kevin Jones  Tara E. Verdon K  
Brian Levitt  John Sallin  Magaret Haugh  Kristin Holmes  Victor Blix  Theresa Forst  
Bruce Cecil, CSC  James Robertson  Vivierme B. Padilla  Shannon L. Clancy  Jack Howard  Patricia Lynn  
Bradley Wolcott  Thomas Kelly  Ruth Mulligan, R.S.M.  Mary Ann White  Colin Clary  Christine Harper  
John Reardon, esc Paul Kollman, esc w·n· s t h,CSC J I I~ ~c esc 0osep ey,  Ken Bugajski Daren Wallis D D"ll" G an ~·I~ reg IC  Annemarie Crane D M N ·n ave c ~I Ryan Darg1s Michael Waldstein Patricia Carlin  Dorothy Ghyselesich Peter Kuzmich V . Lo Nathaniel Tricker eromca csm~ndy David M. DeSalle Gregory R. Sterling William J. Purcell, Jr. c.s.c. Jim Breen, C.S.C. Stephen Macmanus  Katheleen Renard M r S . h e ISS a. fill Stephan1e Joyce Elizabeth Panzica Brian Brophy  

..................................................................................... 

~ --~--~ 

Thursday, April 11, 1991 
Egypt open-minded about Israeli proposal 
CAIHO, Egypt (AP) 

Secretary of State James Baker 
Ill took an Israeli peace 
proposal to the Arab world on 
Wndnnsday and encountered a 
warm rneeption from Egypt, 
the largest Arab nation and the 
only one at peace with Israel. 
Fornign Minister Esmat Abdel-Meguid said, "This is an idea that is very interesting. We will certainly discuss that very seriously, with an open mind." 
There was a more skeptical nmction from the semi-official Egyptian prnss. But the foreign minister's statement, after Baker had met for 90 minutes with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Abdel-Meguid, kept the momentum of the Bush administration's effort to settle the 43-year Arab-Israeli dispute. 
Baker called the discussion "fruitful and useful." He will meet here on Thursday with J>rince Saud, the Saudi foreign minister, and then on Friday with Syrian and Jordanian leaders. 
Thll aim of his trip is to set up peace talks, and the Israeli proposal for a regional peace conference involving Arabs, Israelis and Palestinians has givlln Baker a jump start. 
"We are open to discuss any way to find a peaceful solution," Abdel-Meguid said. Still, the Egyptians prefer an intllrnational conference, and the foreign minister called the lsra1Jii plan an "initial step." 
Baker said format was secondary to making meaningful progress toward a solution to the festering 
YOU THOUGHT Z GLASSES WERE 
~  BAD, JENNY?  ~  
,. JUST WAIT... PAY·BACKS  ~  
ARE HELL!!!  
HAPPY BELATED Zist!  
Love, Celynni, Katie, Niki, Terri  


dispute. 

Before Baker flew here from Jerusalem, the Egyptian press indicated Mubarak might confront Baker with a five­point plan of his own calling for Israel to relinquish land in order to gain Arab acceptance of its existence. 
Other provtsJons in Mubarak's plan included a halt to new Israeli housing construction on the West Bank 
and  in  Gaza  and  the  
establishm ent of a  Palestinian  
state.  

The Egyptian leader did not rule out the regional peace conference proposed by the Israeli government -provided it was to lead to an international conference. 
Israel's plan would have the conference held under U.S. auspices, preferably in Washington, with the Soviet Union a participant. Reporters traveling with Baker were told the Soviets would have to restore full diplomatic relations with Israel if they hoped to sponsor peace talks. 
Egypt's approach would involve other nations, as well, many of which have opposed Israeli actions in U.N. votes. 
Baker and his senior aides declined to hazard a guess how the Israeli plan would be received in his talks with Mubarak and with Prince Saud, the foreign minister of Saudi Arabia, in Cairo. 
Abdel-Meguid warned before Baker's arrival from Jerusalem that Israel could not have peace until it yielded what he called Arab land. 
I 

The Observer page 9 
AP Photo

Fleeing Refugees 
Kurdish women shield their mouths against dust in the mountainous border area of Piranshahr, Iran, Sunday, after they had crossed from Iraq. Thousands of Kurdish refugees have fled into border areas of Iran and Turkey recently following Iraq's crackdown on rebel elements in the north and south of Iraq. 
Troops from 5 permanent U.N. nations to make_ up Iraq-Kuwait peacekeeping force 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Officers from the five perma­nent Security Council nations will serve together for the first time in the new 1,440-member 
U.N. force that will monitor the Iraq-Kuwait border, officials said Wednesday. 
Twenty-seven other nations will join the United States, Bri­tain, France, China and Soviet Union in the patrolling force, whose advanced guard, led by an Austrian commander, was to arrive in Kuwait City on Friday. 
An official cease-fire in the Gulf War will take effect Thursday at 10 a.m. EDT, diplomats said, as long as council members have no last­minute objection. 
Members of the council re­ceived copies of the Iraqi Par­liament's decision on Saturday accepting the Security Council's conditions for a permanent cease-fire. 
The two-line Iraqi statement simply said that the body ac-
only a few days left to buy tickets to 

an off-campus Dinner/Dance for all Graduating Seniors 
FRIDAY, April19, 1991 7pm to Midnight at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Ave at Scott Street -Sit Down, Family Style Dinner -Drinks­-Great Campus BANDS -Jester -Five O'Clock Shadow 
THE COST: $ 25 a couple 
If you did not buy a bid to the Senior Formal, why notjump on this attractive alternative for a truly festive time? 
Tickets Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
cepts Security Council Resolu­tion 687, passed April 3, which requires Iraq to pay for war damages and destroy its weapons of mass destruction. 
The council had been pre­pared to declare the cease-fire on Tuesday, but at the last minute decided it needed to see whether the Iraqi Parliament had expressed any reservations or conditions. 
When the cease-fire becomes official, the Security Council president, Belgian Ambassador Paul Noterdaeme, will send a letter to Iraqi Ambassador Ab­dul Amir al-Anbari that informs him of the condition. 
Austrian Maj. Gen. Gunther Greindl, who commanded the 
U.N. peacekeeping force in Cyprus from 1981 to 1988, was officially confirmed Wednesday as leader of the U.N. Iraq­Kuwait Observation Mission, called UNIKOM. 
Greindl and the other advance members of the 
UNIKOM team arrive in Kuwait City on Friday, but the main units of peacekeeping infantrymen, military observers and combat engineers are not expected for another 10 days to two weeks. 
Headquarters for the force will probably be established at Urn Qasr, an Iraqi town in the demilitarized zone near the outlet of the Shatt-al-Arab wa­terway. A logistics base will be set up in Kuwait, and liaison offices will be opened in Bagh­dad and Kuwait City. 
The core unit of the force is a 300-officer group of military observers. They will carry light sidearms, but are not supposed to confront or attack anyone who violates the border. 
They will patrol the approxi­mately 120-rnile border of Iraq and Kuwait, maintaining a demilitarized zone six miles into Iraq and nearly four miles into Kuwait. 

The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1991 
Student Government Presents... 
APublic Forum On Contemporary Issues 

Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy 
U.S. Department of Energy 
"Securing Our Energy Future" 
Thursday, April11, 1991 7:00pm CCE Auditorium 
-


~TUDE NT 
GOYIIIIIII 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members of the Arts &Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
----..-...... 'f'-T ..... T~..,._...,..,. ... ,..,..,~ •• -............................ ., ................. ••••••.o.-•-· 
Business 
Thursday, April 11, 1991 page 11 
Hospital costs predicted to increase during 1990s 
BOSTON (1\Pl -Hospital /\IDS, among other factors. eosts are likely to grow rapidly Their work, based on data during the 1<J<JOs, a study con­from the American Hospital dudes. Association and the Health Care 
The stnady incrnasn in hospi­Financing Administration, was tal costs slowed temporarily published in Thursday's New during the mid-1980s, and the England Journal of Medicine. nnw rnsearch found that this Dr. Joseph Newhouse of Har­can be explained entirely by an vard University said the re­abrupt reduction in unneces­search "suggests that hospital sary days in the hospital. The costs will continue to trend up total number of patient hospital unless the payment system days fell by 28 percent between sends a signal to the medical 1981 and 1988. care system that all new tech­
However. the researchers nology won't necessarily be eontend that this was a one­paid for." time saving. Even though in­The movement toward reduc­surancn companies and health ing the amount of time people maintenance organizations still stay in the hospital began in vigilantly guard against un­earnest in the early 1980s, needed hospital stays, hospital when the Medicare system costs will again climb sharply phased in a new way of paying unless something else is done to hospitals for care of the elderly. control costs. Instead of paying whatever bills 
I>r. William Schwartz, princi­patients accumulated, Medicare pal author of the study, said big began reimbursing with flat employHrs and others who fees regardless of the lengths of worrind about out-of-control their stays in the hospital. medical costs have been slow to Private insurers have likewise recognize that they have al­cut back by encouraging more ready wrung all the important outpatient treatment and re­savings they can from hospital ducing hospital stays for child admissions. birth, heart attacks and other 
"Managed care organizations routine care. and industry have bmm burying "Doctors have been hassled their heads in the sand, and forced to change the pat­because things looked so good tern of their practice," said the for a couple of years," said co-author of the study, Daniel Schwartz, a physician and med­Mendelson of the Washington ical economist at Tufts Univer­consulting firm Lewin-ICF. sity School of Medicine. "Almost 30 percent of days 
The researchers said that have been reduced. But as a hospital costs are likely to go up long-term cost-containment substantially because of new strategy, it won't work, because hospital tHchnology, higher you can't squeeze out another salaries and more patients with 30 percent." 
Mug program aids environment 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
University Food Services has instituted a mug refill program in accordance with the recy­cling effort at Notre Dame. 
"Preserves our trees, uses fewer natural resources, re­duces solid waste" reads the advertisement in LaFortune promoting the University Food Services' environmental mug effort. 
"We are committed to a recy­cling program," said David Breitbach, assistant manager at LaFortune and new head of the University Food Services' Recycling Committee. ' 
Breitbach said last October that members on the recycling committee passed a mandate "to recycle as much as possi­ble." The committee said that a mug program, such as the one recently implemented in LaFor­tune, would have the greatest impact on the reduction of waste. 
University Food Services is such recycling measures," Bre­the implementation of suchthe only sponsor of the mug ef­itbach stated. plans.
fort and is pleased with the 
University Food Services does "Recycling is expensive," saidsuccess that the program has not make any profit from the Breitbach.
enjoyed in the three weeks that mugs, manufactured by Aladdin The current mug offer willit has been in action. 
Cups. However, the new mugs continue as long as supplies"We have sold approximately eliminate future costs on large last. When the surplus is de­2,500 mugs," said Breitbach. 
orders of paper cups. pleted, Breitbach says the
The committee established 
For the consumers, the mugs committee hopes to design athis program now "in an effort eventually pay for themselves 150th Anniversary mug for nextto get started [recycling] before with the 10 cents discount they year's Sesquicentennialwe have to," he said. 
receive on mug refills. celebration.
Within the next five years, 25 The committee hopes to ex­Breitbach urged consumers topercent of all waste will have to 
pand its recycling measures take advantage of this offerbe recycled and by the year 
into the areas of cardboard, because it benefits both the en­2000 this percentage will dou­
corrugated paper and Styro­vironment and the customersble. "The University would 
foam. A lack of funding slows themselves.
have inevitably had to institute 

DART CLOSED COURSES  DART COURSE CHANGES  
ACCT ACCT  231 01 231 05  0265 0269  ENGL FIN  414Z 473  01 01  2801 1084  soc soc  313 314  01 01  3031 3361  AL CSE  421 467  01 01  0083 3103  should be "Permission Required" new times: 11:00-12:15 T H  
ACCT ACCT  231 09 231 10  0273 0274  FIN GOVT  478 342T  01 02  1085 2366  soc soc  342 374  01 01  2540 3032  EE EE  498C 598A  01 01  3346 0245  new times: 01:15-02:30 T H (lab times TBA) new times: 09:30-10:45 I H  
ACCT  231 11  0275  GOVT  401  01  2851  soc  401  01  3033  EE  598J  01  3345  new times: 11:00-12:15 I H  
ACCT ACCT ACCT  231 15 231 16 231 17  0279 0280 0281  GOVT GSC GSC  472 430 480Z  01 01 01  2870 3218 3227  STV THEO THEO  454 246 251  01 01 01  2397 0153 0082  HIST  471  01  3366  should be "Majors only" thru 3rd period, then open to all  
ACCT  372 01  0296  HIST  392  01  2911  THEO  253  01  0148  
ACCT  475 03  0301  HISI  394  01  1203  THEO  262  01  2358  
ACCT  475 04  0302  LAW  631A  01  1286  THEO  265  01  0145  
ACCT  476 02  2371  LAW  695  03  1302  THEO  287  01  3065  DART COURSES ADDED  
ACCT  479 01  0307  LAW  695  06  3356  
AERO AERO  444L 01 444L 02  0316 0317  MARK MARK  231 231  02 03  1307 1308  ROFR  31 0  03  3407  Textural Analysis, 3 cr. hrs., 02:45-04:00 T H  
AERO  444L 04  0319  MARK  231  04  1309  
AERO  446L 01  0322  MARK  231  05  1310  
AERO  446L 02  0323  MARK  231  06  1311  DART COURSES CANCELLED  
AFAM  260 01  3263  MARK  231  07  1312  
AFAM  368 01  3265  MARK  231  08  1313  ECON  625 01  0814  
AFAM  371  01  3273  MARK  492  01  2520  
AFAM  374 01  3266  MGT  231  02  1474  **NOTE: The following SOC courses have a limited number of spaces  
AFAM  455 01  3269  MGT  231  03  1476  available to each class during their respective DART periods. These  
ANTH  450 01  2736  MGT  231  04  1478  courses will be open at the start of each new DART period. Any  
BA  362 01  0504  MGT  231  07  1481  remaining openings will be available to anyone on April 24th.  
BA  391 01  0212  MGT  231  08  1482  
BA  391 02  0211  Ml  308  01  2501  soc  220 #2097  
BA  391 03  2223  MUS  220  01  2959  soc  232 #2538  
BA  490 04  0534  MUS  220  02  2960  soc  260 #3029  
BA  490 05  0515  MUS  221  01  2122  soc  302 #2098  
CHEG  459 02  0650  MUS  226  01  1557  soc  313 #3031  
CLAS  328 01  2699  PHIL  220  01  2976  soc  314 #3361  
COTH  478 01  3187  PHIL  235  01  1671  soc  342 #2540  
ECON  421  01  0799  PHIL  246  01  1672  soc  372 #1601  
ENGL  3158  01  2698  PHIL  247  01  2593  soc  374 #3032  
ENGL  317C  01  2779  PSY  454  01  3004  
ENGL  319A  01  1018  PSY  455  01  3005  
ENGL  328A  01  2794  soc  220  01  2097  
ENGL  399A  01  2567  soc  232  01  2538  
ENGL  413F  01  2800  soc  260  01  3029  


-----------~-~--------­
Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 11, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Negative stereotypes demean all ND racial groups 
Dame and St. Mary's campuses going to be solved by expres­I have no interest in the color broadly generalize, the more
Dear Editor: 

are becoming more and more sions of racial egoism or su­of a person's skin, only in what ridiculous it becomes; weRace relations on these cam­separated and among some periority. These assertions they think, believe, and feel. demean ourselves and others.
puses are a complete disaster. 

people, increasingly hostile create an absurd paranoia nobody deserves to be put The key to solving the raceWe all know it. What nobody toward one another. among some individuals who down or labelled with a nega­problem on this campus is to
can seem to agree upon is 

The problem is particularly feel that one racial group is tive stereotype solely on the stop dwelling on the problemswhose fault it is. People blame disturbing when you look at "getting more than the de­basis of race. Paul Peralez, in of justice and equality as issueswhites, people blame blacks. 
how it affects individuals. I can serve." The two feelings, one his recent letter, did just this, of debate. things like this willSUFR is blamed, as are "middle think of several black students of racial assertion or trying to tell us just what it is fall into place naturally whenclass Catholic white people" who, over the last few years, dominance, and the other of that "blacks' want. That's we finally start treating people(the stereotype we all know and have had to choose which racial fear and paranoia, will interesting. I didn't know that for what they are as individuals,love). We don't seem to realize group they wanted to spend inevitably feed upon one an­Paul Peralez knew what was on and not for how much lightthat it's everybody's fault; black, their time with. They were other. the minds of the hundreds of their skin absorbs. Heybrown, white, whatever. 
ostracized as a result of the We should not necessarily feel blacks on this campus. everybody, lighten up. The horrible crime of actually duty-bound to respect a person person sitting next to you thinksWhether it's the mini-South having white friends. On the because of their race, nor It's exactly as illogical as a and feels just like you do. Let'sAfrica that exists in the dining other hand, I've seen a white should we irrationally fear them black person saying that all all show a little respect. 
halls (you sit with your race) or 

guy who happened to go on a because of it. In the end, it's white middle-class people are
palpable hostility you can feel in 

date with a black girl, and the individual, not the race that racist. My family happens to be Ted Sherman,the air when a person of the 
.never heard the end of it from counts. I have no more duty to white middle-class, and we are Grace Hall "wrong" racial group walks into 
his white friends. respect you because you are a members of the NAACP. It just Renee Shelleny a party, the problem is clear; 
It goes both ways. black person than you do to shows you where stereotypes LeMans Hall 
racial groups on the Notre 

Problems like this are not respect me because I am white. can get you. The more we April10, 1991 
Administration is wasting time with needless smoking task force 
Dear Editor: of Father Mallloy's task force on University "ban" on it will no to formulate policy on racial issues need to be addressed. smoking belies this function. more effectively prevent it than harassment at Notre Dame. Another aspect of the task 
I am ignorant and uniformed Smoking at Notre Dame is not prevailing student sentiment al­It seems the task force's role force about which I'm uni­regarding many facets of the a problem meriting emergency ready does. The very concept is in this instance is merely a formed is how it is funded. Any administration of the University attention. silly. cosmetic one: to address an money, time and effort ex­of Notre Dame. The role of a Is the role of a Presidential innocuous non-problem. One pended on this task force seems Presidential task force is open In fact, ultra-health-conscious task force to formulate policies· can only hope the administra­misapplied. such mystery to me. Is a task Notre Dame may have less of a on all "problematic" issues at tion hasn't grown so comfort­force formed to address a crisis problem with smoking than any the University? Again, this able and complacent that it has Edward Schmitt situation? The announcement school in this country. Public seems unsound. No Presiden­time and effort to waste on such Zahm Hall 
opinion here rejects it, and any tial task force has been created foolishness when real, vital April 8, 1991 
Beaux Arts Ball open to all students 
Dear Editor: be held in the Architecture permitted as this is an upstand­
Well, it is time again for the Building Gallery on Saturday, ing University event, but we will semi-annual Beaux Arts Ball, April 13, from 10 p.m. until 2 be serving some yummy Kool­sponsored by the School of a.m. It will of course be lots of Aid. The cost is a mere $5 per Architecture. We would like to fun. We have chosen the theme person and will well be worth extend an invitation to all stu­"The Sting," which should in­it. So come as your favorite dents and faculty to attend. spire some pretty interesting gangster, flapper or whatever, it Each year we try to make costumes. The incredible and really doesn't matter, just come. known that this great event is well-known bands Jester and 5 for everyone, not just "arkies," O'Clock Shadows will be play­Kim Conrad yet no one seems to ever believe ing. Have you heard Stella's Sanjay Singhal us. We're not kidding. voice? Wow! Beaux Arts Ball Co­
Beaux Arts Costume Ball will Unfortunately, no alcohol is Chairpersons 

DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
"WHEN HIS AIO&S PREStNTBJHIM IIJfTHA aTAI/.W JWNl¥1 FCRHIS fiRSTMteTIN& t-UfTHB:l<BACHf}{, TH& PR£5/t:JENT9/.111}, 'HAV& YOU 91011JN 7Hifl 70NAN&Y?' WO, 5/R..' '111/ftt,GeTBACK 70M& AFT1JI?~eSPA55W ON IT.'*  (I) BORING, MARl<. m ~9</P AHMP70 7H&60a? PAF<T5!  (1) PARTY ON, ZONK. (CUP HANT?5ANf? MAK&BARN­YAFIJ N0/585.)  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The moral outrages inherent in war are often ignored when the fighting is crowned with success.' 
Guenter Lewy 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND.IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Thursday, April11, 1991 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Events will celebrate Native American culture, past 
This wenk there will be three events on campus focusing on Native Anwricans (four includ­ing thn Hawaiian Luau). I have written this column to give stu­dtmts and staff a better knowl­ndge of the history of Native Americans. 
We an~ the survivors of the gn~atest holocaust in history. Nevnr. in the entire world has thnre bnen such a concentratnd altl~mpt to annihilate a people as then• was here in thn Unitnd States. Since 1492, approxi­malldy 50 million Native Americans havn been killed by war, starvation and European disnasns. from the original five million, approximately 250,000 survived. Today in the U.S. the population of Native Americans is lnss then one-half of one per­cent. 
OriJ..,rinally a pnople whose civ­ilizations were marked by ex­traordinary cultures, deep spiritual beliefs, a profound re­spect for naturn and for each otht~r. along with invented medicines and food crops which today sustain most western nations, we are now known for our poverty and our high rates of alcoholism and adolescent suicide. 
It took 500 years to bring us to this situation. Originally, many tribes fought and tried to flee. The Iroquois approached the U.S. government and asked that they, like the Europeans who ldt England, may leave this country because they could not bear to live in a country without freedom. Yet, although they themselves had fled perse­cution. the U.S. government re­fusnd to grunt them that right. That thn U.S. Constitution was based on the democratic rule of the Lt~agm1 of the Iroquois is an even greater irony because it was this very U.S. Constitution which dnnind Native Americans any rights. 
One can only admire the Iroquois for refusing to become 
U.S. citizens. When the U.S. 
required that all Native Americans register as U.S. citi­zens, the Iroquois responded by saying, "We are not now, we have never been, and we will never be Untied States citizens." That is how it should be for all Native American peoples. The only things that citizenship ever gave us were broken treaties and broken hearts. We have never wanted equality; we know that we are equal; what we have always thirsted for is frnedom. 
Many people are blind to the extent that the U.S. went in order to annihilate Native Americans. History books are filled with the so-culled justified and courageous wars that the 
U.S. led against the Native Americans. Heroes have been made out of slaughterers. Twenty-three soldiers were awarded medals for the mas­sacre of 300 unarmed men, women and children at Wounded Knee. Out of the 300, only 90 were actual war­riors, the rest were elderly, women and children. Men like General William Sherman are honored in history. Yet it was he who telegraphed to President U.S. Grant. "We must act with vindictive earnestness against the Sioux, even to their total extermination, men, women and children. Nothing less well reach the root of the case." 

Even great literary figures had their say. An editorial in the Aberdeen Saturday Pioneer seemed to speak out the com­mon attitude of the day: "The Pioneer has before declared that our safety depends upon the total extermination of the Indians. Having wronged them for centuries we had better, in order to protect our civilization, follow it up by one more wrong and wipe these untamed and untamable creatures from the face of the earth." Ten years later, the author of this editorial would write The Wonderful 
Monica Tsethlikai 
Guest Columnist 
Wizard of Oz. The author was 
L. Frank Baum. 
Even though it has been one hundred years since the last great massacre at Wounded Knee, retribution has not been paid. Shannon County, where the wounded Knee Massacre occurred and where most of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation is located, remains the poorest county in America. The U.S. government has made retribu­tion for some of its lesser evils and has poured billions of dol­lars into foreign countries so that thy may retain their inde­pendence. yet they refuse to ac­knowledge their greatest abuse of human rights. 
The U.S. wasn't entirely suc­cessful in annihilating us, so perhaps the next best thing was to make the nation forget about us by burying the truth of the past and shipping us to reservations. Even the Statue of Liberty, the greatest symbol of the motto that the U.S. sup­posedly embraces, has always had her back turned on her na­tive people. 
Today, whenever you hear of controversy surrounding mi­norities, it is generally assumed to be in connection with black 
U.S. citizens. Whenever some­one speaks about oppression, it is usually in reference to black citizens or to Hispanic citizens. On this campus, whenever topics concerning racial dis­crimination are brought up, it is only in regards to the black and Hispanic students. I don't deny that they. too, have suffered oppression, I am merely pointing out that the U.S. has done a good job of obscuring the abuse of Native Americans both in the past and in the pre­sent. Because we are not a large group nor a very vocal group, our issues and our exis­tence have been pushed into nonexistence in the minds of most non-Native American citi­zens. 
The University of Notre Dame, itself, is guilty of this apparent amnesia. The land that Notre Dame sits on was given to the University by the Potowotomi Indians in ex­change for the education of their people. Today, the University stands in violation of this verbal treaty and they refuse to admit that they are in the wrong. Qualified Potowotomi Indians are not given free tuition. 
Moreover, the only reminder of the history of the land are in the paintings in the Administration building. The University has no special pro­grams or monuments dedicated to Native Americans. They of­fer the lowest financial aid package for Native American students. They also have a very high dropout rate for Native Americans who come from reservations. We are now seeking to address this prob­lem, but up until our recent ef­forts, the University has never bothered to care. 
This week three events are being sponsored on campus to teach students and faculty about Native Americans. On Thursday, April 11, a film called "Where the Spirit Lives" will be shown in the esc coffee house at 7:00 p.m. It is a very powerful and exquisitely pro­duced film about the horrors of the boarding schools that Native American children were forced to attend in both the U.S. and Canada. I guarantee you that it is a lesson in history that you were never taught. 
Despite the fact that I know about the cruelties practiced, my own father was forced to attend boarding school, the ac­tual extent to which the abuses occurred left me in tears. I en­courage you to attend. It is a lesson that should be taught so that people will have a true pic­ture of what happened and what is still happening to Native Americans. 
After the movie. a discussion will be led by Sharon O'Brien who is an expert on Native American affairs. It is being sponsored by the multicultural Executive Council. 
On Friday, April 12, there will be a Fireside chat in the ISO lounge from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. The chat will feature Bob Moody who is a Potowotomi Indian. He will talk about the religious beliefs of Native Americans. Lunch will be pro­vided. It is sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
The biggest event is on Sunday, April 14. There will be a PowWow from 12:00 to 7:00 
p.m. at Stepan center. Admission is free for students, faculty and staff. The Pow Wow is a celebration of our continued existence. If you have never been to one, it is a good chance to see one of the beautiful sides of Native American culture. 
One hundred years ago, the future seemed nonexistent for Native Americans. After 100 hundred years of mourning, many Native Americans are looking on the next 100 years as years of healing. The youth are being educated in order to learn how to bring success to their nations in the White world. A spiritual resurgence is growing on the reservations. We are regaining our pride and our strength and soon the U.S. government will no longer be able to ignore us. We are be­ginning to mend the Sacred Hoop and hopefully, this process will lead us to self-deter­mination. 
Monica Tsethlikai is a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
People must start protecting the environment now 
God cn~atnd the Earth for His it for messages or giving it to a junction with upcoming Earth I ems. 
Tina Buchanan 
pnoplll. The ecosystem ulti­recycling center, 2. give clothes Week, the campus will host a Ms. Sue Greer, the guest
Guest Columnist 
mately nvolved into a collection and other household items to guest speaker from the PAHLS speaker, is the Executive of living things. However, I charity instead of discarding (People Against Hazardous Director of PAHLS will be 
that total victory has been
would argue that the ecosystnm them, 3. set your refrigerator Landfill Sites, Inc.). PAHLS has speaking tonight, Thursday,
achieved. When we destroy the
is more than just a "collection." temperature between 38 and 42 a newspaper which reaches 45 April 11, at 7:30 pm in Haggar
environment, we destroy our­
Evnrything from humans to degrees and set your freezer states and five foreign countries Parlor. Ms. Greer's expertise is
selves as well as others around
animals to all the individual between 0 and 5 -the colder -Malaysia, Scotland, Australia, in the area of toxics. This 
us. Ecosystems are destroyed,
trnes am morally significant to the appliance the more energy West Germany and Holland. evening, she will address the
species are exterminated, and
thn internsts of the Earth. consumed, 4. save water by environmental concerns of such 
animals are endangered. We
Since the Earth is our most washing clothes only when you PAHLS is a not-for-profit areas as the industry's com­
have an ethical commitment not 
precious resource, we must do have a full load, 5. recycle grassroots organization formed mitment to the environment to
only to ourselves, but to all the
all that we possible can in order newspapers, and 6. if possible, in 1982 when Waste environmental concerns in the
animals, species, and ecosys­
to save our great ecosystem. It buy pens and razors with refill­Management began accepting medical profession. The lec­
tems themselves.
has become increasingly clear able cartridges. hazardous waste at a landfill in ture, titled "The Environment:
There are so many things a
that we, humans, need to take In order to protect the envi­Wheeler, Indiana. The organi­Whose Responsibility Is It 
person can do to protect the 
lUI ethical stand on the issue of ronment, people must pay at­zation addresses concerns Anyway?" should provide some
environment, such as recycling.
the environment. Most people, tention to the outdoors as well. about landfills, incinerators, very interesting and exciting in­
There are several ways to go
unfortunately, have never fully For example, keep steel-belted water quality issues, and much formation on environmental
about recycling and winning the 
realized that they are not the or radial tires filled with opti­more. PAHLS is also dedicated ethics. 
war against the killing of ...
only moral interests on the mum air levels since bulky tires to providing education and in­
Mother Earth. In the store, it is
planet. We have forgotten end up in landfills and do not formation to low-income and Tina Buchanan is a member 
very helpful to buy in bulk.
about the moral concern of decompose. minority communities faced of the Saint Mary's Earth Day
Excess paper and plastics often
other living organisms bneause with serious toxic waste prob-Committee.
aren't recyclable and will end 
we have (in some cases) used Also, six-pack rings from 
up in a landfill. Also, it is better
these organisms to suit our own beverages should be snipped
to accept paper not plastic bags 
needs and interests. It is since birds and marine animals
because plastic bags are not
llSStmtial to remember that get tangled in them and choke.
bio-degradable. Another
animals, plants, ecosystems, Balloons also end up in the
important tip is to use a no-or
and even spncies have interests. ocean where fish mistake them 
ttt:LP lf

low-phosphate detergent to
These interests are morally for food and choke on the
wash clothes. This is useful be­

significant because without indigestible material that 
cause phosphates get into lakes
them humans would have gone becomes stuck in their intestine. ~ 
and streams and cause algae
without so many needs being We should hang on to our
bloom which die and absorb all
satisfind. balloons or better yet, buy
of the water's oxygen as they
The time is now for an envi­recyclable or biodegradable
decompose. Thus, other life
ronmental ethic to take place in ones.
forms die as well from lack of 
our land. Although progress As with the rest of the nation,
oxygen.

as been made in the area of Saint Mary's has become more
People may recycle at home.
nvironmental awareness and aware of the need for en­
These are just some sugges­
rotection, we cannot assume vironmental actions. In con­
tions: 1. recycle mail by using 


Accent 
page 14 Thursday, April 11 , 1991 
NO's Morris voices the '"'isdom of Disney
By MONICA Y~NT him named Professor of the But it may have been his nat­News Editor Year for the state of Indiana. urally effusive personality and Not bad for a former rock love of performance-this is a musician whose philosophical professor who dons Hawaiian Take one. calling came at an interesting garb and sunglasses to help The words, "Tom Morris, time-just when CBS Records ease students' return to classes doctor in philosophy," flash was showing an interest in his after spring break-that made 
across the te 'evision screen, band. him a cinch for the part. 
followed by a single question, Although Morris went on to He was hired to star in two "Who knows where inspiration get his Ph.D., he still keeps a television commercials, a 30­comes from?" guitar, and the free spirit of a second and a 15-second spot, 
He is pictured in an elaborate musician, in his Decio Hall and a magazine spread, all to office, with l'ooks scattered office. ''I've never considered appear this summer. among classil wooden shelves myself an intellectual, but just Morris stands to profit con­and a dishevl'led, yet accord­an ordinary person who has siderably from the adventure. ingly academi1: aura to it. intellectual interests," he said. He will be paid an initial fee 
He speaks. "V\!hen I was a kid, Morris was chosen after a and a $300 residual every time there was one great thinker cross-country search for a phi­the ads, which are scheduled to who beat all tlze classics, " says losophy professor by the appear on all the networks Morris, professor of philosophy worldwide ad agency D.D.B. during family viewing periods, at Notre Dame. Needham, which represents are aired. 
Flash to Winnie the Pooh, Disney's home video series. The During the six hours of animated hero solving one of agency sought a professor to filming, Morris said, he gained life's many mcral problems. appear in spots for the Winnie incredible insight about the 
Return to ,;he philosopher. the Pooh series to help spread television industry. He saw the "How did he think of that?" the message that the series can precision involved in filming all of a sudden there would be For now, Morris will return to Morris asks. teach children to think. and the teamwork needed on three people with sparkling the classroom and his award­
Fade out on Morris, focus re­Even after combing some of the set. "I've never seen such water before me," Morris said. winning teaching methods turns to Pooh and his animated the nation's leading universities, harmony in a big room of Like any first-time television while waiting to be notified activities. Another voice helps the agency had yet to find the people before," Morris said of star, Morris was dazzled by the when the commercials will be answer his qllestion, "The wis­right professor. Many were the commercial's crew. grandeur of show business. aired. He said he's not certain dom that inspires us as chil­"stuffy," Morris explained, while Morris said he had to over­"They picked us up from the where the experience will lead dren stays with us forever. some who had the right come his tendency of speaking airport in long white limousine him, but that it challenged him That's why D:sney's Winnie the personality traits did not come and moving like a professor in with a driver dressed in the lat­"in a new and different way" Pooh is essem ial. " across well on film. front of a large lecture class. "I est fashions, and with a bar and and that he would "do it again" 
Back to Morris, the professor Getting the job was a fluke of had to get sensitized at the very refrigerator stocked with family if asked. no longer a r;keptic. "You can sorts, he said, as the father of beginning to the technology," he favorites like Peppridge Farm And although the world of one of the ad executives was a said. goldfish and sparkling water." philosophy and the world of
always tell your good stu­

dents," he concludes. "They Notre Dame alumnus and sug­Morris, who read Pooh as a It didn't take Morris long to children's animation may not 
know their Pcoh." gested they extend the search to child, said he had no problems realize that working with evoke an automatic connection Cut. ND. When the agency contacted with reciting the lines praising Disney meant working with the from those who will see the ads, Making thi > commercial was Public Relations and Disney as an educational tool. best. He said he and his family Morris has no trouble seeing 
anything but just another day in Information, they were given In fact, for a man who read were set up in a posh hotel in the correlation."There's a kind the life of Morris, who recently one name, Morris'. Pooh to his fiancee in college Beverly Hills and had their ev­of wonderment about Pooh," he returned from California as one He fit the bill perfectly. Morris and who has a dog named after ery need attended to. said. "Pooh is almost a Socratic of Disr ey's newest has had television experience, one of the characters in the "They told me .that the budget figure, sort of proto­spokespersor s. Having shot two appearing as part of the series, there was "no more nat­for incidentals (like spending philosophical." commercial!; and a magazine University Lectures Series on ural a thing for me to do." money and food) was greater This wonderment is the con­spread to plug the Winnie the The Learning Channel in an in­Through it all, he experienced than most total budgets for nection. For like Morris, and Pooh series, Morris is capping troduction to philosophy lec­his share of the royal treatment music videos," he said. "This Aristotle said, '"Philosophy be­off a year that has already seen ture, "The Ethics of Everyday given to the stars. "If I were to definitely was the best of every­gins in wonder."' 
Life." say, 'I'm getting a little thirsty,' thing." 
Nf~W television series brings PBS into 'The 90's' 
music video of the African which could not be heard in any country of Mozambique is quite other medium. remarkable. These voices are composed of 
"The 90's" attempts to a core of correspondents and a present the vast array of number of regular group of information as best it is able personalities and characters. and much better than any other This program has no actual source. "We're constantly host; the closest "The 90's" searching for honest voices to comes to such a conventional put on TV," says Executive figure is an animated Albert Producer Tom Weinberg, and Einstein. Nothing could better more voices present a more reflect post-modern American honest picture. A given episode culture. will feature footage from 15-25 "The 90's" is also a very quick different video tapes. television program in keeping 
with its post-modern origins. 
How does "The 90's" unify Americans cannot maintain an these different sources of in­attention span of more than two formation? This program is minutes, and this program does forced to act in the same man­not require this of its viewers. ner as the typical American. All One segment provides enough video footage is placed under a food for thought, but the real single theme. The Federal challenge is in relating an Reserve ;md African video seg­entire program. ments were both unified undBr "The 90's" is definitely aThink of the adjectives used of modern culture. When both Marc Johnson the central theme of money. program that college studentsto describ£· modern American the primitive tribes of Africa Other themes include war, pris­could enjoy. This program ex­culture, and these adjectives and the middle class families of ons, and television. plores controversial issues from describe "The 90's." This televi­Indiana are able to utilize the To Be Continued ... 
Producer Joe Cohen says that every conceivable point of view sion series airs Tuesday nights technology of the video The narrator approached the "we put the new hour together and then attempts toon PBS at 10 p.m. Yes, PBS is recorder, amazing results are actual Fed building while every week and we always sense of overwhelming amounts the station that airs nature inevitable, and "The 90's" illus­reflecting on "the bizarre include the best tape we see of information. 
specials and "Mister Rogers' trates these amazing results. 
rituals of money that take place that week, even if it's not Perhaps the daily rigor of
Neighborhood," but WNIT 

within these halls" and was exactly on the general theme." classes provides far too much of (Channel 34) need not be seen One episode of "The 90's" promptly denied any access to These themes are all treated such activity, but judging by theas dull. featured a segment which at­
.. these rituals. The segment had with a great deal of concern demands upon the intellect of
tempted to discover the process the distinct feeling of a "Roger from numerous sources. This my fellow classmates, I doubtAmerican culture is eclectic, that the Federal Reserve uti­and Me" style production. program definitely is not this is the case. Trash the lameconcerned, and quick, and PBS lizes in determining how much While the description of this "America's Funniest Home television and tune into "Thereflects those characteristics in money is made. Taking a tour of segment may not seem remark­Videos," and television audi­90's." PBS is not the networka style uni,Jue to television with a mint is easy, but conversing able in itself, the fact that it ences breathe a collective sigh you remember it to be; it'sits series "The 90's." with a actual member of the appeared in the same episode of relief. "The 90's" provides a better and more current

The eckcticism of this pro­Reserve proved to be a much 
which also featured the first forum for a great many voices ever.
gram is based in the technology more difficult task. 




Thursday, April 11, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Augusta National not putting timetable on minority memberships 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP) -The chairman of Augusta National Golf Club says there is no set timetable, but the club will have more minority members in the · future. 
"I'm not going to say next fall we'll have another black or two more," Hord Hardin said Wednesday during his annual news conference on the eve of the Masters. "Judge us by what we do." 
Minority members of golf and country clubs became a major issue last summer when blacks threatened to demonstrate out­side Shoal Creek near Birmingham, Ala., site of the PGA Championship. 
The turmoil boiled over when Hall W. Thompson, founder of Shoal Creek, said there were no black members of the club be­cause things weren't done that way in Birmingham. 
Civil rights groups called off plans to boycott after Shoal Creek accepted a black as an honorary member. 
The fallout from the contro­versy produced pledges from the PGA of America, the PGA Tour and the U.S. Golf Association to take into consid­eration a club's membership policies as a criteria for hosting an event. 
1\vo clubs bypassed PGA Tour events this year because of the new policy -the Butler National club near Chicago los­ing the Western Open and Cypress Point at Pebble Beach losing the Pebble Beach National Pro Am. 
Ron Townsend, 49, president of Gannett Television Group, became the first black member of Augusta National last year. 
Townsend's membership was announced after the Shoal Creek controversy, but Hardin said the club had decided to of­fer membership to a minority member earlier. 
"We don't have restrictions on prospective members based on race, creed, or color," Hardin said. "We are certainly not fin­ished in the process." 
Hardin said the club has been delighted with Townsend. 
"We couldn't have been hap­pier with that choice," he said. "He's been here 11 or 12 times. He's a golf nut. He fits in beau­tifully. It's been a very reward­ing experience for us, and I hope for him." 
The Observer accepts dasslfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day dassifleds is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prapaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character p8f day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
HELPIIINEED A ROOMATE FOR SUBLETIOR AND/OR RENTOR Ill JUNIORS, JUNIORS Ill CHRONIC DESIRE Top 21 Quotes From MUN NY Trip: CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL NEEDED
NOTICES 

DOUG X2051 Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm SUBMIT RESUME TO CAREER SENIOR BAR'FRIDAY'4/12 21. A three hour tour? sublet from June -August AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 20. Faehner's sequestered? Good !II TYPING AVAILABLE American AuPair nanny specialists. and/or share lease from January­FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. 19. Three shots fast? I'm there 287-4082 Carefully screened families. Full May call x3828 twice. 
benefits, airfare, good wages, DECLARATION OF 18. She fell down the escalator, and $$$tor books 10·4:30 M-Sat.reg. Nanny support system, no lees. HOUSE FOR SUMMER SUBLET Ill JUNIORS, JUNIORS Ill INDEPENDENCE: the scary thing is, she's completely hours 10-5:30 everyday Local interview-call Joan 616-684-FROM 6/1 0-8/20. RENT sober. Pandora's Books 233-2342 1451. NEGOTIABLE. HISTORICAL SUBMIT RESUME TO CAREER "I am the queen of 17. Rhododendroms are not corner of NO Ave. & Howard NEIGHBORHOOD. CALL 7-9 PM AND PLACEMENT SERVICES meaningless sex." indigenous to these parts. 
232-8783. FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. 16. If nobody minds, I'm going to Ramada Inn of Elkhan, Award CINCINNATI -I need a ride this signed, watch LA Law. Bye! Winning Hotel, has rooms for weekend Ill II your going and want AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR AUGUST PREGNANT? Independence, Iowa 15. Hello, We don't want any! Graduation weekend. Located at company and money lor gas, 1. FOUR BEDROOM HOME WITH Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing In 14. No. I'm not caucasing, I'm non­Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhan (12 miles please call Kristen at 283-2927. TWO COMPLETE BATHS. your tummy by accident? Loving aligned.
.........................

from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 COMPLETELY FURNISHED. doctor and his stay-at-home wife 13. Bite Mel nights with $110 deposit per room. CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL would like to discuss Baby's future STUDENTS: 12. I'd be bored and you'd be Send letter with deposit to 3011 STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? 234-9364. with you. Please call collect Going home for the summer? Need confused. Belvedere Rd. Eikhan. IN 46514. I'm looking lor 1-3 roommates to anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael & a place to stash your stuff? We 11. At least I didn't lose a Senate 
share a Campus View apartment for Sublet apartment tor summer:1 Debra. have the place lor you! raceI TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 VAS. the summer. I'm interning in the bedroom, 800+ sq. ft., fully JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE 10. Wanna pet my lizard? UNIVERSITY TEACHING Bend, so I won't be around much. furnished, washer and dryer I got it. 272-2400 9. Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST Call John at 283-3574. in apartment, pool, tennis Come. And be my baby. General, are those Bugle Boys BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS courts, etc. Rent negotiable. STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? you're wearing? IN ECON & MATH COURSES. Cali 277-2597 I'm looking for t-3 roommates to 8. I don't know. They just followed 272-3153. HELP! NEED RIDE TO ~DOPTION: Loving couple, doctor share a Campus View apartment for Benny home. 
COLUMBUS, OH. THIS FOR SALE 3nd teacher, longing to share our the summer. I'm interning in the 7. Hey! Come back here with that Professional, fast, accurate typing WKEND. CALL 284-5196 love with newborn. We'll give your Bend, so I won't be around much. can! done lor your term papers. reports, sofa, luv seat, carpet baby a caring, warm, and happy Call John at 283-3574. 6. Faehner constantly strives lor resumes, etc. Reasonable rate. LOOKING FOR CONDO/APT. TO window seats (Fl. & Gr.) home. Expenses paid. Cali Carol self-improvement (In Bed) Call or leave message at 299-1737. SUBLEASE FOR SUMMER. CALL X1583 and Frank collect 212-874-3537. ENGINEERS' WEEK 5. Even baby pythons are born 12 
JANET 283-3831. CLUE #4 inches long. TYPING term 1990 CAVALIER Z24, II. blue, low LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes THE MAN WAS A GENIOUS. HIS 4. Ken's got Perma-Smllel papers/reports/letters/resumes. Sitter for two boys. Age 5 and 3. miles. sharp. Cali 271-8920. every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 am. SYSTEM OF THOUGHT CAN BE 3. Oh? You mean the 6-2 black guy Pick up and delivery available. 277-Flexible, own transportation. Train and jump the same day. FOUND IN DIRECTORIES. with blond dreadlocks kneeling by 5134 Cathy. Sunnymede area. 289-9649. For Sale: 1982 VW Rabbit Modern equipment and training the side of my bed? 
Great condition, new battery, programs. Licensed instructors. SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS 2. It's Rich's birthday on Friday. 100k miles. $950 OBO. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) LONDON-ROME OPENINGS He'll be twenty ... uhh two. 
Call Jeff @1786. 948-2665. STILL AVAILABLE . College 1. One, two, three ... Shut up Rick 
courses and travel May & June, (Ken/Mike)! LOST: A Minella Camera In a black GRAD. WEEKEND INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Info. call Prof. A.A. Black 284­Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Win a free Mac SEll Ill 4460(olfice) 272-3726(home) AnTostal '91 ...1T's COMING! have been lost 3128191 in 127 219-291-7153. for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. The Mystery Mac made an AnTostal '91 ..JUST DO IT! Niewland. II found please call Scott Office near campus. appearance on the 8th. $CHICAGOLAND AREA JOBS!!$ @ 273-9355. REWARDIIIII 3 Bedroom House Did you see it? If you did, Graduates...full-time PERMANENT, AnTostal'91 
Close to Campus 89 GEO Spectrum remember where and register also TEMPORARY office support April 20-28 April 20-28 Found: A gold braclet near the $555 Month +Deposit Great Gas Mileage-to win it at the Hesburgh jobs available. Dome. A name and date are Ten Month Lease 45/city 50/highway Library Computer Lab this Call INTERVIEWING Everyone's Doing 1111111111 inscribed on the braciet. To claim 232-3616 Still has factory warranty week. The drawing will be CONSULTANTS, INC. please call Ajay at excellent buy, call Pat held on the 18th at the at (312)263-1710, ask for Cathy SIGN-UPS: 5749 or 287-4869. HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. 288-5678 Fieldhouse Mall. Giambarberee or call Thurs. & Fri., April 11-12 
3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, Lisa at 284-5112 for an application. 4pm-6pm LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT Reasonable Rates. ONE-WAY TIC TO SAN DIEGO, YOU MUST BE PRESENT (In SUB-2nd Floor LaFortune) SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239-Call at 232-1776. 5/19 FRM CHI. $150 OR BIO.CALL TOWINII FRIDAY. 12TH 10-2AM 5812 TERRI WELTY. MIKE 288-7797. Less Better Blues STOP TORTURE 
An attractive studio in lovely old Irish Music & Dancing with Five O'Clock Shadows FREE INNOCENT PEOPLE LOST: KEYS! 3 keys on two mansion near N.D. $300 now GREAT DEAL! Round trip SEAMAISIN Sat. Club 23 and TARTAR GUN SAVE LIVES attached rings-one room key, one renting for summer &fail 91 call plane ticket.ANYWHERE in 9 pm until whenever ends (TARTAR GUN) MAKE A DIFFERENCE! mall key (#139) and one padlock. 2879624 USA $148 John at t619 McCORMICK'S CONEY ISLAND Lost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar. TOP 1 0 Quotes from Jack and across from the marriott. HOW? Come to the Please call X4092 If you can help. Best Locations, Best Houses, Have Marge's weekend in VEGAS come and see the GUN do all of AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
LOST/FOUND I IL..._F_O_R_R_E_N_T____. 
TICKETS

your own yard. 233-9947. 10. Anyone want a UNLV shirt? your favorite songs and people. WRITE-A-THON lor Human Rights LOST: IN OR NEAR LOFTUS, A 9. It only takes you an hr & a Today-11-2pm Sorln Room DIAMOND RING OF GREAT Quaint furnished apts. near NO. I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL hall to get readyl Annenberg 8-1 Opm Dooley Room SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU lor summer or fail semesters. JOHN X2325. 8. What's your all-time Friday, 2 pm. FREE of LaFortune FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL 257--effeciency $225 favorite performer? Your granny wouldn't like It 8154. -1 bedroom $260 One-way air from Chi. to LA. 5/11. 7. Welcome to the world's but you might STOP BY TO WRITE A LETTERII 
-2 bedroom $360 $110,x4243 largest BOOFETI I left my glasses In the Physics 222 deposit, references 616-6. Why do you keep going into the if you thought that the 5 guys who Lab on the third floor of Nieuland on 483-9572 FOR SALE: trunk? You look fine! weren't afraid to wear tutus while Jac, March 26. Two Paul Simon tickets. Floor 5. So, uh, what team are you playing basketball were good, then Best of luck with Greg ... If you have any information, please Female rmmte. (non-smok.) needed seats, great location. Cali: playing? go to the Annenberg Friday 2pm Needless to say, you are the best! call me!I I am blind without them II for '91-92 at Runaway Bay-call Usa Scott at 234-1 048 4. Dealer's got Blackjack; HIT ME II Entiende? Nicole x4907 259-6841. 3. Welcome to the VALLEY OF I went to see the 5 guys in tutus Dutch 
Need 2 grad tix for Grandma and FIRE! That's the Elephant Rock? play at Stepan. Will they come to Lost keys on U of 0 keychain Furnished Summer Apt.-Tunle Grandpa before they kick. Ron, 2. So I'm carrying this American the Annenberg on Friday at 2pm to Watch out... around NOH, library, or D2. II Creek-2 Bed-Call x3504. Standard toilet seat to the hardware see me play? Zahm LAX is on the loose again found call Amy X3391 283-1747 after 5 store. It's still got 92 days left on a tonight... 
FOR SALE 25 yr guarantee Eckelkamp. Good luck guys! LOST: RING WITH 5 SMALL PAUL SIMON TICKETS 1. Where's the Wayne poster? Hizon. DIAMONDS IN SHAPE OF A V. Moving to NYC/ or Summer FOR APRIL 16TH SHOW. Kreidler. Kirby, 
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO Internship? Female non-smkr GREAT SEATS. ROW 4 AND 13. Engineers' Week: Rhomberg. I heard "you got some," and at the 208 KNOTI HALL roommate needed to share large CALL X 3790 Thermodynamic Thursday Salvatorieiio. library of all paices I NO QUESTIONS ASKED. mnhttn apt -safe, great neighbrhd, 'Sublunch -12:15-1:15 pm Maybe you should hang out there 
near Central Park, Subway; Prica DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD Engineering Student Center Better than Jordan, Jon, Danny, instead of going to SYRsl FOUND: Two rings in the Ladies Negoc. Contact: Linda Filar (NO TICKETS! Cali Jerry x1069 'Calculator Toss -3:30 pm Donnie, and Joel first floor restroom in O'Shag. Cali '90) (212) 968-3937 on wkdys; or Cushing Quad SYR-not a dance; we're a BAND One week 'til Georgie's 21 #2170 to claim. write: 711 Amsterdam Ave, 25M, FOR SALE: 'Paper Airplane Contest 4pm Grace Colfehouse, Sat. Night We know that she'll have lots of fun. 
NYC, NY 10025. Apt available mid­PAUL SIMON••2nd ROW Cushing Quad 10PM-? Doing things she shouldn't have Lost: On the basketball courts at May. Best offer!! Cali x4900 'Faculty-Senior Wlne&Cheese done. Stephan...a Triumph WATCH and Reception 4:30-6:30pm POW WOW POW WOW In one week she will be totally legal, 1934 Chicago silver RING!!! Please at the University Club Sunday,April 14th But she still won't have a beagle.
PERSONALS
call if found-Condo for summer rental 'Beacon Bowling 9pm from 12:00 to 7:oop.m. 2 bdrm 1 mi. from NO 272-5708 Meet There! at Stepan Center Withoutanauto--Good luck with MODELS WANTED FOR Admission is FREE wilD your talk on NOEll know you'll do a 
ADVANCED HAIRCUTTING POW WOW POW WOW wonderful job as long as you 2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-So, you thought the TUTUs were remember to end with the quote, $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. 1875. finished? Think again, maggots, Elizabeth Bird (Head Female and the priest doesn't fall asleeplll Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School because we're back I That's right, Dancer) Is performing live Strive for a· and get a position right 
yr. Call Michelle at X4970. Resumes .... Professional quality we won! We beat a bunch of girts on April 14th, from 12 to 7 ON the PPFIIIIIIIIII 
272-5667. (Tom Williams) (though not by much) I Come watch p.m. at Stepan Center. TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES us play again on Friday, 4:45pm, Admission is FREE wilD Allison Stambaugh-FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE To ail ENGL 491A Warriors: "I Stepan. Come and watch her hop like It's become blatantly obvious!! II IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER Have Committed Fornication in a crow and two-step like a pro as 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE Another Country and Besides, the FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY she guides all of the dancers at the Colleeen-­NORTH OF NO 2773097 Wench is Dead" CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. POWWOW. Hope you get better soonllll 

'
·r-~---------~-----~~-­
~ 
Page ~6 

Average Baseball 
Salal~ies 
In thousar;ds of dollars as compiled l>y the Major League Baseball Players Association. 

1991 based on AP survey [il Aver•l.ge Salary 0 Minimum Salary 
1968 not available 
700 
600 

1967 70 '80 '85 '90 
Beginning in 1 l79, salary deferrals wrthout interest are discounted at 9 percent per year. Beg1nmng 1n 1' l87, signing bonuses are increased at 9 percent per year. 
Figures as of April ~;-,-;199;;;;;1;-----------------------_J 
l:t.t.]:{ji.]; EBASKETBALL XX 
Bookatore Bealu tbllll RHulte from Wedneaday, April 10 
Bad Boys del. The llmmles, 22-20. Your Mom Can1 W1 estle del. Hthis was Nlntendo, 22· 20. Manson Family Pro acts del. Joe & Jon Rosa Fan Club, 21·16. Rice Man's Revengo del. 5 Guys who would 
surrender, 21-10. Tearn I 373 del. Pt uddle Duddles by torten. Team I 231 del. Huwall 5 'Ho' s, 21-14. Tatonka del. We Jr, lln the Future, 21-11. Team I 51 det. Big! JOt, Lochneas Monster ... , 21­
19. Chicks dig Us del. f Iva Feet of Fury, 21-12. Koozles del. The Nill Sedaka Project, 21-12. Bad Aces del. Dlggnr, Lou, & 3 Guys ... by forfeit. Dances with Ohlme (Bra del. The Regulators, 
21-9. Digger, Hu88eln anc I 3 other del. The Beaver 
Cleavers, 21-r. Anzonzo's Secret d If. We have tin hats, 21-10. Llghtin' tt del. 5 Hoc psters from beyond the 
Grave, 21-12. The Doorknobs del. 4 Whipped Guys, 21-2. Apocalypse & 4 Ho,semen del. Nice Musky, 21­
2. 
Vinny & the Polish ~:elbasas del. Rev. Dlmesdale, 21-14. 4 Beavers and a [); n del. The Satanic Angle­Bangllng ... 21·7. Come Slam on Davo del. Brown Shoners, 21­
11. 
4 Men & Ken del. F Jmunda Cheese, 21-11. Brickyard Borrtlers :let. Phi Luu's Roomate & 4 others, 21-8. Team I 537 del. Stnak Dudes, 21-5. 
S.U.C.K.M.E. del. Jll & the Hac's, 21-10. OmarY Los GrlnQOl, del. 60 Shots & a Fish, 21­11. Senior Bar del. FranK Rizzo, Brett Wyatt .., by torten. Bumblin', Sturrblin', Rurrbin' del. Casa & Co., 21-3. Estimated Proftts del. She Likes that Greek 
Stuff, 21-19. Carolina Connectio11 del. Hell, 21-19. Peache's Late Nigh del. Unlike Digger, 21-5. Tearn II 556 del. $5l00, a Championship Ring, 
21-9. Circles Make va. Di:2y del. Las Chicaa by torteh They can make pas ;es but we..del. The Mother Lode by f )rfett Farley del. Shaved, 21-4 Hoosier Hysteria dsl. Brink, 21-4 
APIMartha P. Hernandez 
Thuraday'a Schedule 
Stepan 1 Just Chillln' Vs. Team 179, 4 Armed & Dangerous va. Box & One Honkybreath vs. 5 Shameless Woman Hustlln' Playboys va. Where the Sun Don1 Shine Stepan 2 Mikey Like h va. Teeth Trashln' We'll Win with va. High Rollers 4 Fleas & a Camel vs. In Bounds In range 5 Glorious Mysteries vs. Static equilibrium Slepan 3 Pale Alder Lives va. House of Pain 9 am Diggers vs. Barking Cliff Chickens 3 Male Chauvanlsts va. Saddam Hu88eln ... DeBattolo Hb Men vs. Shoot the Trey Stepan 4 Operation Bookstorm va. Cheggers You got a rip vs. Come see our 6000 Jane Doe vs. Dangling Fury Dogs In Heat va. 5 Guys that can1 score Stepan 5 Splderman PI vs. Flyln' Hack Daddys Team II 684 vs. Hairy Mexicans .. United Deamons vs. 1992 Olympic 5 guys who hate Jill vs. We hate your lffe Hal Gurney's vs. Stepan 6 Flamiche Five vs. Stray Scuds First Rund Knockouts vs. I thought we told.•. Chlllln w/ Frozen Roman vs. Lou's Slaughterhouse Bookatore g Bogies vs. David, Goliath, & 3 Dudes Who are we kidding vs. Carpe Merkin ... The Dangles vs. We dldn1 want Gaping wounds .. vs. Toenale Clippings Bookatore 10 Skanky Fishheads vs. Jerry's Kids NO's most wanted vs. There's no lire 4 Sloths and a swafllllox vs. TAs from hell All time Lows vs. Crunchtlma Lyona 11 Paradise Jam vs. Dead In the Long Run Our party balls flow vs. 5 orange whips Satan & His Minions vs. Small but huge Legends of Rico Suave vs. Smacky & the Boys Lyona 12 Cuhure Club Farewell vs. DC 3 amlgos Digger's Fan Club vs. Beertrain Bitter vs. Go Billy Bardo & Bradley Too Los Huerons vs. The Innkeepers 11 



~ I Italian Pasta
8 I • "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" / ':' Spec1al. 7 Course Dinner • Charcoal Chicken & Steak ,-~ Private Part1es 288-3320 Banquet Room 
Hit.UNUTESSWoiCAMPUS MIOPFWRIEAVE 
BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FRE:E DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & NO SPECIAL 
LARGE 18" PJZZA $12,00 <WOITEMuMn 
SMALL 12" PIZZA $ 5 • SQ 
TWO ITEM LIMIT 

OFFER EXP1RES6 ·28 o1991 
Scoreboard 

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Milwaukee 2  0  1.000  
Toronto 2  1  .667  t/2  
Detroit 1  1  .500  1  
New York 1  1  .500  1  
Boston 1  2  .333  1 112  
Cleveland 1  2  .333  1112  
Baltimore 0  2  .000  2  
West Division  
w  L  Pd  Gil  
Chicago 2  0  1.000  
California 1  0  1.000  
Oakland 1  0  1.000  
Kansas City 2  1  .667  1/2  
Minnesota 0  I  .000  I 112  
Seattle 0  I  .000  I 112  
Texas 0  2  .000  2  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
East Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
New York 2  0  1.000  
Pittsburgh 2  I  .667  1/2  
Chicago I  I  .500  I  
St. Louis I  I  .500  I  
Montreal I  2  .333  I 112  
Philadelphia 0  2  .000  2  
West Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Cincinnati 2  0  1.000  
Los Angeles I  0  1.000  
San Diego I  0  1.000  
Atlanta 0  I  .000  1112  
San Francisco 0  I  .000  I 112  
Houston 0  2  .000  2  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Wednesday's Gamea  
Late Games Not Incl uded  
New York 4, Detroit 0  
Kansas Crty 1, Cleveland 0  
Toronto 5, Boston 3  
Chicago 2, Bahimore o  
Mi..,aukee 6, Texas 0  
Calnornia at Seattle, (n)  
Minnesota at Oakland, (n)  
Thursday's Games  

Cleveland (King 12-4) at Boston (Darwin 0-0), 1:05 p.m. New York (Eiland 3-4) at Detrort (Gullickson 0-0), t:35p.m. Minnesota (Erickson 8-4) at Oakland (Show 0-0), 3:15p.m. California (Langston 1 0-17) at Seattle (Holman 11­1I), 3:35 p.m. Milwaukee (Robinson 12-5) at Toronto (Wells 11­6), 7:35p.m. 
Only games scheduled 
Friday's Games 
Chicago at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 
Milwaukee at Toronto, 7:35p.m. 
Calnornia at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. 
Baltimore at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
New York at Kansas City, 8:35p.m. 
Seattle at Oakland, 10:35 p.m. 
Only games scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wednesday's Games 
late Games Not Included 
Chicago 2, St. Louis 0 
Pntsburgh 6, Montreal 3 
Cincinnati 6, Houston 5 
Los Angeles 6, Atlanta 4 
Philadelphia at New York, (n) 
San Francisco at San Diego, (n) 
Thursday's Games 
Los Angeles (Martinez 20-6) at Atlanta (Leibrandt 9-1 \),2:10p.m. St. Louis (K.Hill 5-6) at Chicago (Harkey 12-6), 2:20p.m. San Francisco (LaCoss 6-4) at San Diego (Benes 10-11), 4:05p.m. Montreal (Mahler 7-6) at New York (Whitehurst t­O), 7:40 p.m. Houston (Harnisch 0-0) at Cincinnati (Chartton 12­9), 7:35 p.m. 

Thursday, April 11, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 

EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Atlantic  Dlvlalon  
y-Boston  w 54  L 21  Pet .720  GB  L10 6-4  Streak Lost I  Home 33-5  Away 21-16  Coni 33-14  
x-Phlladelphla  43  33  .566  11 112  6-4  Won  3  28-10  15-23  31-18  
x-N-York  36  41  .466  19  2-8  Lost  2  18-20  18-21  25-24  
Washington  27  49  .355  27 112  3-7  Lost  4  19-18  B-31  19-31  
Miami  23  53  .303  31 112  3-7  Won  I  17-22  6-31  14-34  
N-Jersey  23  53  .303  31112  1-9  Lost  6  18-20  5-33  15-34  
Central  Dlvlelon  
y-Chlcago  57  20  .740  6-4  Won  2  33-6  24-14  38-11  
x-Detroh  47  30  .610  10  6-4  Lost  3  30-9  17-21  30-19  
x-Milwaukee  46  30  .605  10 112  7-3  Won  2  31-8  15-22  31-18  
x-Atlanta  41  35  .539  15 112  4-6  Won  3  28-10  13-25  24-26  
x-lndlana  38  39  .494  19  5-5  Lost  1  27-12  11-27  24-25  
Cleveland  29  48  .3n  28  5-5  Won  1  19-18  10-30  20-30  
Charlotte  23  54  .299  34  4-6  Lost  3  15-23  8·31  15-35  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Mldweet  Dlvlalon  
x-San Antonio  w 51  L 25  Pet .671  GB  L10 8-2  Streak Lost I  Home 31-8  Away 20-17  Coni 32-18  
x-Utah  50  26  .658  1  7-3  Won  2  32-5  18-21  34-16  
x-Houston  49  26  .653  1112  8-2  Lost  1  30-9  19-17  30-19  
Orlando  28  47  .373  22112  6-4  Won  1  21-17  7-30  23-30  
Dallas  26  50  .342  25  1-9  Lost  5  18-21  8-29  15-35  
Minnesota  24  51  .320  26112  3-7  Won  1  18-20  6-31  16-38  
Denver  19  57  .250  32  1-9  Lost  6  16-23  3-34  11-40  
Pacific  Dlvlalon  
x-Portland  59  18  .766  10-0  Won  12  32-5  27-13  38-13  
x-LA Lakers  55  21  .724  3112  7-3  Won  5  30-8  25-13  37-13  
x-Phoenlx  51  25  .671  7112  5-5  Won  1  29-8  22-17  31-19  
x-Golden State  39  38  .506  20  3-7  Lost  3  26-11  13-27  23-28  
x-Seattle  37  38  .493  21  6-4  Won  2  24-12  13-26  23-26  
LA Clippers  30  46  .395  28112  7-3  Lost  1  22-17  8-29  25·25  
Sacramento  22  53  .293  36  4-6  Won  1  21-16  1-37  15-33  
x-cllnched playoff berth  
y-cllnched dlviaion title  
Wedneaday'e  Gamea  
Late Game  Not Included  

Cleveland 94, Detroit 90 Mlaml112, Washington 106 Philadelphia tOO, N-York 84 Chicago 101, Indiana 96 Portland 105, San Antonio 100 Utah 97, Dallas 91 LA Clq,&rs vs. Seattle at Tacoma, (n) 
Thuraday'a Gamea Atlanta at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Boston at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Houston at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Lhah at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Orlando at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
Frklay'a Gamee Miami at Boston, 7:30p.m. Minnesota at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Cleveland at N-Jersey, 7:30p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Detroh, 8 p.m. Indiana at N-York, 8:30p.m. San Antonio at Seattle. 10 p.m. 

is looking for people who are interested in being 
Day Editors 
for the 1991-92 school year. Must have at least one afternoon per week free. 
Cont111ct D111nnlk111 Simpson 111t 283-4624 or 239-7471 

-~---------~-~·--­
Thursday, April11, 1991 The Observer page 17 


NOTRE DAME'S ANNUAL CAMPUS BAND FESTIVAL 
COME OUT AND JAM WITH SOME OF NO'S FINEST BANDS 
Stage A Stage B 
7:00 SYR 

7:15 Good Question 7:30 
Thee Bitch Hogs 7:45 5 O'Clock Shadows 
8:00 Jester 8:15 Smear 
8:30 Chronic Desire 8:45 Sister Spleen 
9:00 Castaways 9:15 Met Iatones 
9:30 Bone Forest 9:45 Heaven's Trail 
10:00 Ice Nine 10: 15 Headless Torso 
10:30 Tartar Gun 10:45 Beds pins 
11 :00 NAZUS 1 1 : 1 5 Footloops 
11:30 Door Knob Lore 11 :45 Doghaus 
12:00 JAM 
',l\'1lll\!l 111\!HlN 11111\1/ll 
The Observer 
page 18 

Portland wins 12th straight 
Pippen scores 17 for Bulls; Seikaly nails 27 for Heat 
(AP)-Portlanc won its 12th consecutive game and became the first NBA team since 1987 to sweep a th1·ee-game Texas series, defeating San Antonio behind ClydE Drexler's 22 points. 
Not since Bo:;ton beat Dallas, Houston and San Antonio con­secutively frcm Feb. 18-21, 1987 has a team repeated the feat. There were 43 intervening three-game Te:ms series before the Trail Blazers. who defeated Dallas on Sunday and Houston on Tuesday nig 1t, did it. 
Terry Porter scored 18 points for the Blazers, who matched last season's franchise single­season victory ~ecord with their 59th triumph and ninth consec­utive victory ott the road. Their 59-18 overall record is the NBA's best by t'IVO games. 
San Antonio saw its four-game winning strea}: end despite 27 points from Da rid Robinson and 20 from Sean Elliott. 
Bulls 101, Pacers 96 
Michael Jorc.an scored 10 of his 28 pointB in the fourth quarter and Chicago limited Indiana to just three baskets in the final six mi 1utes. 
The Bulls, \\ ho trailed by as many as nine in the first half, took the lead :or good on con­secutive three-point plays by Scottie Pippen and Horace Grant 38 seconds apart. 

Pippen, who scored 17 points, put the Bulls ahead 88-86 with 
5:51 left and Grant made it 91­88 as he took a Jordan pass underneath, made a layup and the following free throw. 
76ers 100, Knicks 84 

Ron Anderson had 25 points and 10 rebounds as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the New York Knicks 100-84 Wednesday night, retaining their slim hopes of winning a homecourt edge in the NBA playoffs. 
Hersey Hawkins added 18 points as the 76ers won their third straight game and fifth of their last sixth. They are 3-1 without Charles Barkley, still sidelined with a sprained knee. 
Patrick Ewing had 28 points and 12 rebounds for the Knicks, who lost for the ninth time in their last 13 games, and played again without injured starters Charles Oakley and Gerald Wilkins. 
To get a homecourt advantage, the 76ers, with five games left, have to catch the Milwaukee Bucks, who lead Philadelphia by three games in the Eastern 
Hawks held to 10 shots in first two periods; Wings, Oilers win 
(AP) -Mike Craig and Mark Tinordi score :1 during Wayne Presley's second-period major penalty and M .nnesota held the Chicago Blackltawks to 10 shots in the first two periods as the North Stars beat the Blackhawks. 
Neal Broteu also scored for Minnesota, which sent the series back to Chicago Stadium for Game 5 on Friday night. The Blackhawks led the league with 106 regular-soason points and finished 38 ahead of fourth­place Minnesota. 
The North ~tars blew a 5-2 lead Monda·r but held on Wednesday despite allowing Steve Larmer·~ goal with 4:58 to play. Minnesot 1 outshot Chicago 34-17 and has a 145-107 series advantage. 
IL 

lVI 

Jon Casey, pulled from Minnesota's net the last two games by coach Bob Gainey and criticized for allowing two weak goals in Monday's Game 3, was rarely tested until the third period. Nevertheless, he made several key saves in outdueling Ed Belfour, the NHL's top regular-season goalie. 
"They took it to us for all 60 minutes," Chicago's Troy Murray said. "Once they scored, we backed right down. Give them credit. They deserved the win. We sure didn't. 
Red Wings 4, Blues 3 

Third-period goals by Rick Zombo and Brent Fedyk led Detroit over St. Louis. 
Steve Chiasson had two goals for the Red Wings, playing without Bob Probert who on Conference. 
Cavaliers 94, Pistons 90 

Brad Daugherty scored 23 points and Larry Nance 22 in Cleveland's victory over Detroit, trimming the Pistons' lead over Milwaukee to one-half game in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 
Darnell Valentine had 20 points and Daugherty grabbed 11 rebounds for the Cavaliers, who led by as many as 12 points before the Pistons closed within two in the final minute. 
Isiah Thomas scored 20 points and Bill Laimbeer had 16 points and 19 rebounds for the Pistons, who lost the season series to Milwaukee 3-2 and must maintain a clear-cut lead over the Bucks to keep the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference. 
Heat 112, Bullets 106 

Rony Seikaly broke out of a slump with 27 points and 16 rebounds and Kevin Edwards converted two three-point plays 
Michael Jordan scored 28 points last night as the Bulls erased a nine­
in the fourth quarter as Miami 
point first half Indiana lead and beat the Pacers, 1 01-96. 
defeated Washington. 
The outcome snapped a four­games, was helped by Glen 95-94, Edwards' dunk and free game losing streak for the Heat Rice's 24 points and Edwards' throw gave Miami a 97-95 and extended the Bullets' losing 13. advantage with 5:53 remaining. string to four. Edwards' first three-point play Pervis Ellison had 19 points 
Seikaly, who had scored just gave Miami a 94-92 lead. Then, and 14 rebounds to lead the 57 points in the previous six after Washington went ahead Bullets. 
Tuesday received a one-game suspension for slugging St. Louis goalie Vincent Riendeau in Game 2. 
Brett Hull, who led the NHL with 86 regular-season goals, scored two third-period goals for the Blues, including his fifth of the series to narrow the score to 4-3 with 2:51 remain­ing. The Blues pulled Riendeau for an extra attacker with 1:00 remaining. 
Riendeau faced 34 shots, Detroit goalie Tim Cheveldae 29. 
Only seven teams in NHL playoff history have rallied from 
a 3-1 deficit to win a series. The 
most recent team to win a 
The Red Wings did it in 1987, coming back to defeat the Toronto Maple Leafs in the Norris final. 
"The play of Steve Chiasson has really surprised me," Detroit coach Bryan Murray said. "We weren't even sure if he'd be able to play in Game 3, and he came in and scored a goal. And then he had a real impact tonight. 
Oilers 5, Flames 2 
Esa Tikkanen scored a pair of power-play goals in a five­goal onslaught to lead Edmonton over Calgary. 
Tikkanen and Mark Messier revived the Oilers' anemic power play, each scoring goals while Edmonton enjoyed the man advantage in the second period after the Flames took a 2-0 lead in the first. 
Tikkanen scored again on the power play early in the third and Kelly Buchberger fol­lowed with his first career playoff goal as the Oilers took a commanding 3-1 lead in the best-of-7 Smythe Division semi­final. 

S U M M E R S E S S I O N S 
series after trailing 3-1 was the ,--------, 1991 
Edmonton Oilers last year in the first round against Winnipeg. 

OPEN VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
ONE NIGHT TOURNEY FRIDAY APRIL 12 7:00-10:00PM BRING A TEAM OR MEET PARTNERS THERE TRIPLES SIX-ON-SIX 
JACC FIELDHOUSE NO ADVANCE REGISTRATION NECESSARY Thursday, April 11, 1991 


eorgetown 
UNIVERSITY 
ISchool for Summer and 
._________J 
Continuing Education 
Please send more information on: 
ProgromJ or Grorgrtom•n 
_Over ZOO graduate and 
undergraduate <.'oursc!' 
_ Public Affairs Internships _High School Program; _ ln<ercultural Training _"Interpretation and 
Translation Institute _ Language Courses _Theology Conference _Literary Criticism Conference _Institute for H.S. Teachers _Institute on Sacred Scripture _Alumni College _English as a Foreign 
Language _Helping Families Cope; Ethical and Paswral Care Issues in Generics 
Sessions Pre-Mav 20-June 14 First-ju.ne 10-julv 12 8-Week Cross Se;sion­
june 10-August 2 Second-July 1,5-Augusr 16 
Program.r obmad 

_Antwerp, Belgium-lnr"L Trade _China-Chinese Language and Culture _Tours. France-Language 
and Culture _ Fiesole, Italy-Italian _ Greece-Humanitie!-1 _Oxford. England-Comparative 
Business (undergraduate) _Oxford. England-International 
Management (graduate) _Quito. Ecuador-Spanish _Trier, Germany-German _Middle East-H.S. Teachers _ Leningrad, USSR-Russian 
Language and Culture _Hong Kong-lnt'L Business _Leicester, England-Shakespeare 
Call (202) 687-5942 or mail ro: 
SSCE-Georgerown Universirv 306 lnrerculrural Center . Washingron, D.C. 20057 FAX: (202)687-8954 
NAME---------------­ADDRESS ________________ 
------STATE ZIP 
Grorxrtuu."" {:nit~rsity is on rquul opporrunil)' offirmatit.·r artion mstttutum in nnplormnll and r1dmissions. 


Thursday, April11, 1991 The Observer 
page 19 



~ ~~---~ 
oage 20 The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1991 
Kicke1· lgwebuike' s trial continues 
Attorneys say government witness changed his story 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP)-Attorneys for Minnesota Yikings kicker Donald IgwebuH e took aim at the government's star witness Wednesday, all£ ging he com­pletely changed his story about the player's rcole in heroin smuggling. 
Igwebuike's longtime friend Ibezim Ofedu has testified that he followed the kicker's direct orders in a scheme to smuggle one-half pound •>f heroin from his native Nigeria to the United States. 
But just a li :tle over two months before the trial began, Ofedu told one ·>f the player's attorneys a different story ­that Igwebuike had nothing to do with heroin snuggling. 
"He repeatedl)' stated Donald was not involved," testified James Felman, cne of three at­torneys who has represented Igwebuike duri 1g his federal trial. "That was the clear mes­sage he was telling me," 
Felman said Ofedu requested the Jan. 15 meeting at a federal lockup facility, where he was charged with •:onspiracy to smuggle heroin with Igwebuike. Ten days before the trial began, Ofedu pleaded guilty to the charges and agreed to testify against his friend. 
Igwebuike, 31, has steadfastly denied the ch(lrges, and defense attorneys claim Ofedu is only trying to implicate the player to gain a lenient sentence. 

Ofedu's credibility was further challenged by his cousin, Anthonia Agbakwu, who testi­fied Ofedu told her in a series of phone conversations from jail that Igwebuike had nothing to do with heroin smuggling. 
Also testifying for the defense Wednesday was Igwebuike's fa­ther, Matthew Igwebuike, 59, who made his first trip ever to the United States to testify on his son's behalf. 
The elder Igwebuike, a retired Nigerian government accoun­tant and tribal chief, testified his son sent thousands of dol­lars back home during his six­year playing career with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and VIkings. 
Igwebuike's money helped pay for two cars and the ongoing construction of a two-story, 14­room family home in Nigeria, the elder Igwebuike testified. 
Most of the time the money was wired home, the father said, but on one occasion last year $7,000 was sent home with one of Igwebuike's new friends -fellow Nigerian Maduwubu Ibekwe. 
It was Ibekwe's arrest at Orlando International Airport on Oct. 11 after a trip from 
Nigeria that helped authorities unravel the alleged smuggling scheme. Customs agents found three packets of 85 percent pure heroin in lbekwe's crotch and another 30 packets in his stomach. 
lbekwe, 31, led authorities to Ofedu and pleaded guilty to heroin importation charges, but he will not testify against Igwebuike. 
Ofedu has testified that the football player directed him to pick up a package of drugs in Tampa, take it to New York, sell them and then bring Igwebuike the expected $65,000 in profits. 
A Tampa banker testified for the prosecution Wednesday that Igwebuike -who made $350,000 in his last NFL season -has borrowed and then refinanced over $100,000 in personal loans, still owing about $40,000. 
Prosecutors' used the testi­mony to send the unspoken message to the jury that even a high-paid athlete like Igwebuike had enough incentive to get in­volved in drug smuggling. 
Testimony was set to resume Thursday with the case possibly going to the jury as early as Friday. Defense attorneys have not indicated whether Igwebuike will take the stand. 
Toror1to 
continued from page 24 
Canucks-Kings playoff game. 
That use of all that jet fuel and time spenl in luxury suites should be eno 11gh to quell any suggestions M;Nail's not seri­ous about signlng Ismail. 
"If this was a publicity stunt, I wouldn't be here," Ismail said. 
"We believe it's important to Rocket and Jo 1 and his people ~o know we're serious," Mlakar said. 
At stake are the next two football seasons for Ismail, who set college football on its head during his three years with the Fight .ng Irish. 
He could ace ~pt McNall's offer of $6 million over two years and sign with the Argos or he could sign wi1h the NFL's New England Patriots, which fin­ished last in 1he NFL last sea­son and earn~d the first draft choice. 
And to hear Ismail and Edwards tell it, it honestly doesn't matte!' which team it is, as long as thn deal he signs is OK. 
"I have no apprehensions about going anywhere and be-

been the attitude of the team that I'm interested in, a positive attit.~de. To me, that's the big key. 
Edwards, who said "Team Rocket" has met two or three times with the Patriots and spoke with McNall last week and Wednesday, added that other inducements may play a key to the deal. 
"Money's a consideration but it's not the only consideration by any means," he said. "This is a class organization and we're taking their interest in Raghib very seriously." 
Last year's No. 1 NFL pick, quarterback Jeff George of the Indianapolis Colts, signed a deal worth $12 million over six years including a $3.5 million signing bonus, making McNall's offer very attractive. 
Critics of Ismail say he's too small at 6-foot-1 and 180 pounds to make it in the NFL. 

is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Purchasing Agent 
Freshman and sophomore business majors interested in gaining valuable business and managerial experience which could possibly lead to promotion within the business department should contact Gil Gomez at 239-7471 for more information. 

ing able to ~roduce," Ismail l~:::===================:::J
said. "All my playing days, it's ~ 


Squad 
Reminder: 

the first clinic for the 1991-92 tryouts is Sunday, Hpril 14th from 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm in the pit of the JHCC. 
Hope to see you there! Noemi It Rosella 
Ifyou see this girl, buy her a shot! 
(Blow jobs are her favorite.) 
•••WE LOVE YOU, 
Happy 22ndl 



Thursday, April 11, 1991 The Observer page 21 
DeSensi, Lisanti sign with Notre Dame baseball 
Observer StaH Report 
The Notre Dame baseball team announced the signings of two more recruits yesterday. 
Craig DeSensi, a shortstop for Trinity High School in Louisville, Ky., batted .430 last season, hitting five home runs and stealing 23 bases in 23 at­templ'i. He also committed only one error all year. 
DHSensi was a member of the 1989 Lexington-Dixie Baseball Club that participated in the National Amateur Baseball Federation World Series, wherfl hn was named a member of the All-Tourney team. The Irish beat out Louisiana State to land DoSensi. 
"The kid told me that he is going to Notre Dame, and the reason is because he thought it was a better school academi­cally," Tiger coach Skip Bertman said in the March 11 edition of the Baton Rouge Morning Advocate. 
Catcher Bob Lisanti, mean­while, was a member of the 1990 Chicago Sun-Times All­State team and carries a 4.0 GPA as a senior at Fenwick High School in Oak Park, Ill. He chose Notre Dame over Northwestern and Illinois. 
"Both of these guys have great potential and could be impact players for us next sea­son," Irish coach Pat Murphy said. "They will make great contributions to our program." 
DeSensi and Lisanti join Craig Allen (Franklin, Ky.), Tim Kraus (Cincinnati, Ohio) and Steve Verduzco (San Jose, Ca.) as Irish letter of intent signees. 
NFL's Tagliabue: team choosing first may negotiate Rocket 
NEW YOHK (APl -NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said Wednesday that the team holding the first pick in the NFL druft may negotiate a contract with a player if it chooses. 
But he also ratified a dedsion made at the league meetings barring a team without the first pick from talking contract with prospective draftees. 
The decision stems from Chicago's signing last year of Mark Carrier, who the Bears chose with the sixth overall pick of the draft. The Bears had also discussed contract with defensive end Ray Agnew and linebacker James Francis before announcing they had signed Carrier. 
Carrier, a safety, went on to become defensive rookie of the year, although most teams thought at the time that he would have been a low first­round or high second-round choice had he not agreed to terms. Francis was taken eighth overall by Cincinnati and 
f4==JVRERS 

Some straight 'A' options from EFG 
(iuaranteed and non-guaranteed loans. Lines ofcredit. Flexible budget plans. Given the high cost of higher education, ir's essential to have more than one financing option to cover your tuiuon costs. That's why The Educational Financing Group of Manufacturers Hanover offers a straight 'A' lineup of options designed to help you achieve your academic financial objectives. 
It's as easy as EFG: No one else offers a more comprehensive range of options. Because no one else understands your needs better than the Educational Financing Group. Call us at 1-800-MHT-GRAD and go to the head of the class. 

Burger on NCAA committee 
Former chief justice chosen to review rules process 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. (AP) -Warren E. Burger, former chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, and nine others will comprise a committee to review the NCAA's rules en­forcement and infractions pro­cess, it was announced Wednesday. 
Chairing the committee, which was authorized by the NCAA Council in January, will be Rex 
E. Lee, president of Brigham Young University. 
The panel was appointed by the NCAA Administrative Committee. Its charge is to re­view the entire process with an eye toward suggesting changes that could be acted upon by the NCAA membership at the con­vention in Jan. 1992. 
No date has been set for the committee's first meeting. 
"The purpose of the review is to make sure that the enforce­ment and infractions process is being handled in the most effec­tive way, that fair procedures and due process are guaran­teed, that penalties are appro­priate and consistent, and also to determine ways to reduce the time needed to conclude the in­vestigation and infractions process," NCAA executive di­rector Dick Schultz said in a prepared statement. 
"The group also will be re­quested to determine if there can ·be innovative changes that will make the process more positive and understandable to those involved, as well as to the general public," he said. 
Other committee members are Reuben V. Anderson. a former state supreme court justice in Mississippi; Morris S. Arnold, 
U.S. district judge for the Western District of Arkansas; Charles Cavagnaro, director of athletics at Memphis State and a member of the NCAA Council; Charles W. Ehrhardt, faculty representative from Florida State; Robert R. Merhige Jr., senior U.S. district judge for the Eastern District of Virginia; William M. Sangster, dean of the college of engineering at Georgia Tech, and Paul R. Verkuil, president of the College of William and Mary. 
"I am very pleased with the people who have agreed to serve on this committee," Schultz said. "The caliber and experience of the committee en­sure a candid, open review and a report that guarantees accep­tance and credibility." 
Agnew went to New England on the next pick. 
At last month's meetings, the NFL's competition committee had recommended that no ne­gotiations take place with any player. 
However, Joe Browne, the league's vice president for communications and develop­ment, said in a statement Wednesday: 
"As in the past, the club choosing first in the first round may talk with more than one player and reach a financial agreement before the draft. This agreement cannot be for­malized until after the club has notified the league it is choosing the player." 
New England, which has the first pick in this year's draft, is expected to choose kick-re­turner-wide receiver Raghib Ismail of Notre Dame. Ismail's agents h~ve asked for $3 mil­lion over five years and also have talked to Toronto of the Canadian Football League. 
Achievement 
Educational Financing Group 

continued from page 24 
me, where Is Doug Flutie now? How many of you know that the former Heisman Trophy winner now plays for the British Columbia Lions out In Vancouver, B.C.? 
So, for all this posturing about how Ismail might sign with Toronto, all It's worth Is about an extra million or two on the NFL contract he'll sign with the Patriots. 
Oh, and don't forget about the all-expense paid vacation In Toronto, complete with freebie tickets to a Blue Jays game, too. 
MAI~IGOLD 
MAI~KET 
-SRfN<SS­
BIN&JER.KYS 
ib c,AR'TH DAY Fe=:S-rlVAL­
~lL14!1Tff Al~~v~ 
•FE~aFbP:> ,• ~IN FoREST 

Cf<UNC.f+ 
_. ~WNlEfS\1<5 
SEE YouiHERE.! 
~­


Grape &Cleveland Rd. (219) 272-1922 

-~--------------------------­
page 22 The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Ar~~ansas star Day suspended 
Sexunl incident in athletic dorm leaves future uncertain 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­Arkansas basketball star Todd Day and three teammates were suspended from the team for a year for t 1eir part in a sexual incident at the athletic dormi­tory, sources said Wednesday. 
The pla vers can appeal the ruling of the All University Judicial Board to administra­tors. The ruling doesn't pre­clude the players from attend­ing scho<1l, said two highly placed university sources, who spoke on condition they be given anonymity. 
A 34-year-old Springdale, Ark., wom.m, who said she was sexually a ;saulted on Feb. 27, implicated four players. They admitted having sex with her but said sl1e consented. Police said the w<,man was drunk. The local pro:;ecutor said there wasn't enough evidence to prosecute the players. 
School oficials, saying federal law prohibits disclosure of any details of tl1e internal investiga­tion, have 1leclined comment on action taken against the stu­dents. 
The siler.ce has drawn criti­cism from the public and con­cern from :1chool boosters, who say the inc dent has tainted the reputation of the athletic and academic programs. 
"The minimum effect of this would be t :1 prohibit all of the players involved from either playing or practicing next year 
Roc:kne 
continued f·om page 24 
by signs, unencumbered by sou­venir shop!:, gum wrappers or even paved road. The pasture where the Jllane landed is still a pasture. Th ~ lone public notices of the monument are a small notation in red letters on road atlases and at a rest stop on the nearest Kansas Turnpike exit. 
The land on which it stands is owned by Leonard Cornelius of Bay City, Te~as. The monument is entrusted to Doug Stedry, 51, an insuran~:e agency manager in Cotton\'\ ood Falls. Stedry earned the honor 10 years ago by moving into the house on Highway 17 7 nearest the crash site. 
"I didn't roally know when we moved," he said. "Shortly afterward, we found out when people begll n knocking on our door and asking us where it was." 
The house, as does nearly ev­erything ancl everyone in Chase County, has a direct connection to the crash. The late Harvey Cox pulled his ambulance into the drivewuy in order to put chains on he tires before he started thro11gh the mud. 
Stedry has a key to the gate. When peoph· call or, as is more likely, appeu unannounced in Chase Count'r and ask to see the monument, they are directed to him. With auy lead time at all, Stedry is happy to oblige. It is the civic boonter in him. 
"You nevHr know who the 
next resident of Chase County 
will be," he s11.id. 
The road l'rom Highway 177 to the memorial is two ruts worn into the ground. Joan Burton, clerk of Chase County, warns inquiJing visitors not to come withou; a pickup truck. A wooden gate with a chain and padlock gua1·d the property. A sign on the g11.te reads, "Kansas Livestock Association." 
The road starts to the right, winds back lnft and straightens to the crest of a hill. A small watering pond is tucked at the base. On the opposite crest is the memorial. If you didn't 



The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 

forceto cause 44 House

LECTURES 
disaster overhC~ng 45 Endeavored 

APRIL 11: £~£~©~ W©~~~ ©~ ~l]]~ 
~©©N 

APRIL 12: ~lU~:n~ ill!~ 1fll=IT~ V©ILilll~~ APRIL 13: CARTOON NIGHT CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
..
8 pm AND 10:30 pm S2 ADMISSION Sl POPCORN SIGN-UPS FOR ANTOSTAL EVENTS .. APRIL 10-12 4-6 PM 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
_SUB OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
Thursday 
7 p.m. Film. "Where the Spirit Lives." Center For So­cial Concerns Coffee Room. Sponsored by the Multicul­tural Executive Council. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film. "Amazon Women on the Moon" Cushing. 
Friday 
9:30 a.m. Workshop, "When Women Speak the Word of (;od." h~d by Kathleen Cannon, O.P., Associate Provost, Knott llall. 
12 p.m. Reading and Discussion by Coleman Clarke, author. Library Lounge. 
Thursday 
4 p.m. "Graduate School Preparation" Panel presenta­tion of four faculty members. Notre Dame Room, LaFor­tunn. 
4 p.m. The Ward-Phillips Lectures, "High Culture, Sav­age Art, and the Uses of Pornography, " Nan.cy Arm­strong, University of Minnesota, ETS Theatre, CCE. 
7:30 p.m. First Annual Riley Lecture· Series, Dennis Oppenheim, New York artist. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite. 
8 p.m. "Christianity and Politics in Britain Today" Rev. Dr. Donald Gray, Canon of Westminster Abbey, Chaplain to the Speaker of the House of Commons. Room 100, CCE. 
8 p.m. Lecture. "Origins of Scientific Literacy in the U.S." Jon Miller, Northern Illinois University Dekalb. Sponsored by the ND Chapter of Sigma Xi, the Research Society. 
figure 
Pass.~geto

MENU 
22 Existed 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Italian Grilled Chicken Breast Baked Pork Chop Veal Parmesan Spaghetti Cheese and Veg. Pot Pie Vegetable Stir Fry 
Deli Bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
LOOK fl..\ WH,._I \1{\'5 D\.JMB 101\S\ER DID 
1b tv\i TO,._SI.' 
~\)'IE.\ 
...SOI-\E\-\0\'1... 
LIFE. GOES 
ON. 
ACROSS  25 Hindu  52 Genetic  
1 Companion of rave 5 He wrote "My People" 90neofthe Hoggs 12 Don Ho's hello 14 Tired, in Leon 15 Of an age  incantation 28 Trolley payment 32 Rob'!--of the C.S.A. 33-­contendere 36 Men:10rable Merman 37 Fibber 38 Lopez of  duplicates 55"-is,is right": Pope 59 Deck out 60 Brainchild 62 City in NE Italy 63 State as a fact 64 Former spouses 65 Spy of a sort  
1&Sea or way  songdom  66 Turkish title of  
follower  40 Take notice  respect  
17 Ratite birds  41 Bound is bound  67 Moreno or  
18 Core of an egg  to this  Coolidge  
19 Situation about  43 Solar disk  68 Gr. resistance  

21 A Jackson 

DOWN 23 Water wheel 47 Ire, colloquially 1 Finn's 
24 Pierce-Arrow 49 Actress Lupine 
conveyance

contemporary 50 Bread unit 
2 U.S.S.R. range 3 Brew fancier in "Cheers" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Olivier film: 1960 • 
5 Oleoresin & .. La-," 25 Brouhaha Valens hit 26Ak a 7 lnst. at Tempe 27 Comes closer 8Cosa-28 Dunce cap 9 Something to 29lnthelead pump 
30 Superman.::.+:.+=-+.=-! 10 Grain for Vassar portrayer 
11 Tosspot 31 Pliny the­13 Pergola 34 T award the 15 A Ken Follett mouth 
best seller 

35 Kindled 20 Praying female 
39 Forster's "A 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

• 
"Curse you, Ahmad! This Is a picnic lunch, and I specifically asked you not to bring your work with you!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

42 Jekyll's alter ego 46 Less difficult 48 Become troublesome 50 Like success's smell 51 Sacred city of Lamaism 
52 Shore-dinner item 53 World mover 54 Follow orders 56 Perfume container 57 Sicilian city 56 Steeps, as flax 61 Half of MXXII 



~-~­

Sports 
page 24 Thursday, April 11, 1991 
Women's tennis cruises over Western Michigan, 5-1 
Irish recover from early lapses to beat Broncos; face Vols and Deacons in final matches 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
Sometimes, as the saying goes, looks can be deceiving. Upon first glance, the Notre Dame women's tennis team's 5­1 victory over Western Michigan on Tuesday looks like it was an easy one. 
Don't be deceived. The Irish won three of those five matches in three sets, and had to do so without regular number-one seed Tracy Barton, who sat the

• 
match out to rest a sore arm. 
"It was kind of nerve-wrack­ing," said Melissa Harris, who played number-one in the ab­sence of Barton. "At one point, four of six players were losing." 
But never fear, Notre Dame recovered to win. Harris won her match at number one against Kathleen Meyer, 6-3, 6­3, leading, the Irish to victories at all positions except for third singles, where Lisa Tholen lost to Breita Johnson 7-5, 6-2. 
After losing the opening set at number-two singles, Christy Faustmann beat Western Michigan's Amy McClure, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4. At fifth singles, Kim Pacella defeated Cindy Turner, 6-2, 6-1, in the second of Notre Dame's straight set victories. 
Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback decided to accept the match win after singles play was completed, rather than playing out the doubles, which would not have affected the outcome of the match. 


"They're a good team," he said. "We always have tight matches with them." 
Faustmann agreed with her coach, and pointed out that it was a big match for Western Michigan. 
"They played very well," she said. "They had nothing to lose." 
The Irish were sluggish at the beginning, but heated up as the match continued. Of the six sets Notre Dame dropped in the en­tire match, three came in the opening sets. 
"We started ofT slowly. We got in late Sunday, and just hit some balls yesterday. (But) ev­erybody got rolling, and we were okay," said Louderback. 
According to Harris, part of the problem was overconfi­dence. "Going in, we thought they were worse than they were. We took it for granted." 
The break from top-25 oppo­nents also gave the Irish a chance to recover both physi­cally and mentally. Barton's arm consistently has caused her problems, and any time off gives her a chance to rest that arm. 
"It's best for the team to have her sit out as much as possible, so we'll have her for the big matches," said Harris. 
The Irish leave for Knoxville, Tenn., this afternoon, where they will face 13th-ranked Tennessee and highly regarded Wake Forest this weekend in their season-ending matches. 
60 years after his death, Rockne legacy remains 
By IV AN MAISEL 
Staff Writer, The Dallas Morning News 
Editor's Note: This story originally appeared in The Dallas Morning News March 31, 1991-the 60th anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. It is reprinted here with per­mission of The Dallas Morning News. This is the first of two parts. 
CHASE COUNTY, Kan.­Easter Heathman bent his neck and began to search the prairie at his feet. The kind of wind that makes a man hunch his shoulders blew noisily from the west. Behind Heathman stood a 10-foot-high stone monument. Beyond the memorial, the Flint Hills, still wearing their dun winter coats, rose and dipped to the horizon. 
Heathman, 73, spied the ob­ject of his search and plucked it from a damp patch of dirt. 
"You can still find pieces of glass from the cracked wind­shield," he said. "Somebody thought maybe this glass was from a pop bottle. It's all the same thickness. If it were from a bottle, some would be curved, some straight." 
Four chunks of glass are 
found, the biggest of which is 
as thick as two quarters. They 
arc slivers of history, like Minie 
balls discovered on a Civil War 
battleground. Gettysburg didn't 


Knute Rockne 
ask to be a historic site. Fate and death anointed it. So it is with this crest of rolling pas­
ture. 
At 10:47 a.m. on Tuesday, March 31-60 years ago Sunday-a Fokker F-10-A pas­senger plane dived out of a leaden sky and buried itself into this piece of Kansas. The two pilots and six passengers on Transcontinental & Western Air Express Flight 599 perished instantly, which is also how quickly the news spread across the nation. 

One of the passengers had been Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne. During the 1920s, known as the Golden Age of Sport, Rockne had be­come a living legend. In 13 years as coach of the Fighting Irish, Rockne won 105 games, lost 12 and tied five. His win­ning percentage of .881 re­mains the highest in the sport. 
Heathman, then one week 

Is Rocket's Toronto tour needed? 
Come on, Rocket, who ---------­do you think you're kidding? Raghib Ismail has left for Toronto to receive a grand tour of the SkyDome during a two-day visit to the city. While there, he will meet with 
representatives of 

Bruce McNall, majority Rene Ferran 
owner of the Toronto 

Argonauts. Associate Sports Editor 
Ismail's agents say that he is seriously considering a two-year, six million dollar contract to play for the Argonauts in the Canadian Football League (CFL).Right. And next, Michael Jordan will go play in the Italian League.Anyone who seriously believes the Rocket would blast ofT his professional football career in Toronto needs his/her head examined. 
... 
This charade is exclusively for the viewing (dis)pleasure of Sam Jankovich, the new general manager of the New England Patriots. New England, owners of the first pick in the National Football League draft April 21-22, are likely to choose Ismail. 
By making it appear as if Ismail might run for 
the border, his agents simply are trying to gain some negotiating leverage with the Patriots. Even Ed Abram, Rocket's lead agent, admitted as such two weeks ago: "We're in negotiations with the Patriots, and we wouldn't care to upset the apple cart there." In any event, Jankovich probably isn't losing much sleep over this possibility. Do you think Ismail would have given up his final year of eligibility for the right to play in the 
CFL? Or give up the lucrative endorsement contracts he has signed since declaring for the draft? 
Another factor: is that six million dollars in American or Canadian currency? If it's in Canadian dollars, the value of the contract converts to approximately $5.25 million in American dollars. And even if it is in American dollars, income tax rates in Canada are higher than in the United States, which would also drop the relative value of the contract. 
Finally, are Ismail and his consultants ready to give up the high visibility of the NFL for the anonymity of the CFL? Do they want their client to drop of the sports world map for the next two years? 
If you don't think this would happen, then tell 
see ROCKET/ page 21 

short of his 14th birthday, was one of the first people on the scene. He lived about a half­mile south on the nearest road to the crash site. Six decades later, Heathman lives about a quarter-mile north on the same road, now paved and named Highway 177. 
There had been the fiery train wreck in 1927 and the flood of 1951, when the Cottonwood River crested "as high as it has ever been known to be," Heathman said. Two people drowned in that flood. Eight men died in the plane crash, but only one riveted the focus of the nation on these farm hamlets, on Bazaar and Cottonwood Falls, Matfield Green and Strong City, as it did 60 years ago. 
"It is not untrue to say that no death within the confines of the United States caused more grief and depression in those years than did the death of Rockne," wrote Father Arthur 
J. Hope in his 1943 history, 
Notre Dame: One Hundred Years. Hollywood-ironically, Rockne's destination on that early spring day-made a movie about him that featured a fu­ture president. 
In 1988, 57 years after the crash and 100 years after Rockne's birth in Voss, Norway, President Ronald Reagan presided over a cere­mony to introduce a postage stamp bearing the coach's like­ness. No other coach in any sport has been so honored by the U.S. Postal Service. 
There have been numerous memorials to Rockne-a movie, a stamp, a building and some busts on the Notre Dame cam­pus. In death he has remained a public figure. Yet the biggest and most poignant of the memorials, which stands a mile or so west of Highway 177, south of Bazaar, is on private property. 
Carved at the top of the statue are the words "Rockne Memorial." Below them, listed vertically down the body of the statue, are the victims. "In Memory of Knute K. Rockne, Waldo B. Miller, H.J. Christen, John Happer, Spencer Goldthwaite, C.A. Robrecht, Robert Fry, Herman J. Mathias." Under their names, in smaller letters: "Who per­ished on this spot in an airplane crash March 31, 1931." 
The memorial was built in 1935 with money raised from the public durin1~ the Depression, when the public didn't have any. 
The monument is unheralded 
see ROCKNE/page 22 
Ismail receiving royal treatment from Argos 
TORONTO (AP) Boardrooms, ballgames and nightspots. Then a quick jaunt to the West Coast for the Stanley Cup playoffs. The courtship of Raghib "Rocket" Ismail has begun in earnest for the Toronto Argos of the Canadian Football League. 
And if Ismail, the All­American wide receiver-kick returner from Notre Dame, is at all impressed by glamour and royal treatment, it could be goodbye NFL, hello SkyDome. 
Ismail, projected as the first overall selection in the April 21 NFL draft, got a first-hand look at how Argos owner Bruce McNall treats his people during a whirlwind, coast-to-coast tour which began Wednesday in South Bend, Ind., and will wind up this weekend in Los Angeles. 
Ismail and his agent, Jon Edwards, were picked up by McNall's private jet in South Bend on Wednesday and were whisked to the SkyDome, where they met with Sue Waks, vice­chairman of McNall Sports and Entertainment, and Roy Mlakar, executive vice-president of McNall's NHL team, the Los Angeles Kings. 
Then it was a meeting 
the local media prior to th Toronto Blue Jay-Boston Re Sox game. 
After that, it was ofT to out the nightlife of Toron along with current Argos terback Matt Dunigan, ceiver Darrell Smith and returner Mike Clemons. 
After meetings on Thur morning, there's a flight to West Coast in for llltltlLlllll/.:-. McNall and a chance to with one of the other Arg owners -Wayne Gretzky before everything is capped with Friday night's Vancouver 
see TORONTO/page 


