
'-~-----~~-------­

~.~~~t 

·Q&·
1842·1992 
SESQUICENTENNI-'L 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 


VOL. XXIV NO.1 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 24, 1991 

~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND class of 1995 
GEOGRAPHIC PROFILE OF 1991 NOTRE DAME FRESHMEN 


largest in history 
By MONICA YANT Figures were even more im­News Editor pressive for the admitted stu­dents, who ranked in the top 
The class of 1995 joins the seven percent of their class and University with the distinction averaged 1,222 on the SAT. of being the largest freshman Geographically, the largest class ever, according to Kevin portion of the class of 1995 Rooney, director of Admissions. comes to Notre Dame from the 
With the exception of size, the Midwest, which claims 39 per­class of 1995 is almost identical cent of the class. The rest of the to last year's freshmen, ac­geographical breakdown is as 
cording to Rooney. follows: "We're seeing the same level •Thirty percent from the of talent and diversity," he said. Northeast; 
·The geographical distribution, •Eleven percent from the class rank and test scores have West; been "fairly representative of •Ten percent from the South; the last couple of years," he •Eight percent from the said. Southwest. 
Out of 3,500 accepted, ap­Over 250 students from proximately 1,870 students will abroad applied for admission, enter Notre Dame, versus just according to Rooney. Fifty-three over 1 ,800 last year. of these were admitted, putting 
The University received 8,300 international students at two applications for admission, percent of the class. down from over 9,000 last year. While some of these may be But although the applicant pool Americans living abroad, about decreased, the figure still one-half are what Rooney calls represents the fourth largest •true internationals." group of applications ever Minority enrollment remained received, he said. at 15 percent, or 280 students, 
The average applicant ranked of the freshmen class. Ro·Jney in the top 12 percent of his high said. Approximately 1,100 mi­school class and scored 1,160 nority applications were re-
The ObserverrBrendan Regan

on the SAT, according to 
see ND I page 8 
Rooney. 

Saint Mary's enrolls 391 freshmen for 1991-92 year. 
"Throughout the admissions percent were in the top 10 per­Sixteen of the students, force set a goal of 20 new mi­
By EMILY WILLETT and 
process they have appeared cent of their class, and 50 per­approximately four percent, in nority students per year. This 
JENNIFER HABRYCH 
highly competent. They were cent were in the top 20 percent the freshman class are goal has been met each year, News Writers very involved in their high of their class. minorities, according to Rowan. she said, and there are now 61 schools, and I'm very excited to Rowan said that most of the The overall minority rate for minorities at the College. 
Saint Mary's begins the 1991-have them here." incoming freshmen were in­1990-91 was 3.6 percent. This year's class is slightly92 academic year with 391 stu­The students represent 36 volved in sports and extracur­The minority enrollment in smaller than last year's class dents in the new freshman states and three foreign coun­ricular activities in high school the freshmen classis on target due to a smaller applicationclass, according to Mary Ann tries, Rowan said. The average as well as being involved in with recent projections by the pool, Rowan said. This is a re­Rowan, director of Admissions. grade-point average of this community service. Eighteen Diversification Task Force, flection of a trend toward 
"I feel this year's freshmen year's freshmen class was a percent of the students have an established three years ago and smaller classes that began two 
are a very well-prepared group headed by Rowan. The task
3.36 out of 4.0. Twenty-four alumni connection. see SMC I page 6 
of women," said Rowan. 
Summer construction 
Orientation 1991 
Schedule of Events 



keeps builders busy 
.':~f.:::~:··. . .-:.:,.:;:J!t§ltfHHfh!fff.:f-ifflfJ:.· ... 
Notre Dame 'i'i!fk?i~ ~: 

By DAVID KINNEY fire in November 1989. Saturday "''"!C . .. Assistant News Editor The facility is expected to be 1 p.m. Official welcome and tntroducto'Y Ceremony' Joyce •. . complete by this December, and · 2 p.m. Academic perspective from th~ Provost and the Deans of 
Construction crews filled the should "be in service for the
3 p.tn. Parent orient~t~n ·and generalS$ssi0ri ··. · firSt·. · ·S1.:u··ttents 
Notre Dame campus throughout spring semester of 1992," said 
c , •

sors. · . . · Wf#~ :,_ ,,, . . .. ·.·:..iif!·,.!f·J;i.J,~~%E 
the summer, and work Dedrick.
4-6·p.m. Information fairan University programs and RDI"'OJ'I#'>Illc ~~"OU<LI, 
continues this fall on the De­Another major project
8 p.m. Students meat witf!..haH rectors and staff..·. . first year "'"'''·"=" 
Bartolo Quad, the new laundry through the summer, according facility and a variety of other to Dedrick, was the renovation 
projects. of a former power plant build­
..We've had our hands full this ing that will house the Hessert year," said Don Dedrick, Center for Aerospace Research. director of the physical plant. The new renovation was 
A large part of the construc­made possible by a $1.6 million tion work has been directed gift from alumnus Thomas 
Hessert. The former Heattoward the rrew De Bartolo 

Classroom Facility, which Power Lab was gutted, Dedrick Dedrick said should be com­said, and research equipment pleted by the summer of 1992. and five wind tunnels were Although the roof is finished, transported from the old engi­
crews will be working on the neering research building to the external masonry during the newly refurbished facility. 
Other construction and reno­

fall months. Two more major projects in vation include: the new quadrangle, a College • Crews painted rooms and 
of Business Administration improved fire protection in a building and a Maria DeBartolo "rehabilitation" of Alumni Hall. Center for Performing Arts Complete smoke detection sys­
building, will be in the planning tems were installed in Grace stages this fall, he said. and Flanner Towers. 
Crews are also working on • Work is continuing on the finishing the new laundry facil­new Fischer Graduate Complex ity near the ND Credit Union; 
see PROJECTS I page 8 

the old one was destroyed in a 
--------------------------------------------------------~ 

page 2 Saturday, August 24, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Going away to college is hard 
A week ago I left home------­to make my rmal drive out to Notre Dame. As always, it was difficult to say goodbye to my parents. I still can't get used to the fact that I don't really live at home anymore. It was somewhat awkward. I hugged them and said Kelley Tuthill goodbye like a robot, but Editor-in-Chief when I got in the car I felt ------­
like crying. Leaving home is hard. 
Next I had to go pick up a classmate who was going to drive to South Bend with me. On the way to his house, questions kept coming into my head. What will we talk about for sixteen hours? What if we don't like the same music? What if we can't agree on when and where to stop? Spending lots of time with people you don't know well is hard. 
Once we got going, I realized my worries were pretty silly. It turned out that our mu­sical tastes were similar and that we agreed on most everything. Just when I started to feel confident and relaxed, the "check 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 

gauges" light came on. My car was over­heating. Dealing with problems is hard. 

CAMPUS ND students. alumni win fellowships 
We waited for a while and were relieved 
•SOUTH BEND, In -Three Notre Dame graduate
when a cop pulled over to help us. He told us students have received National Science Foundation fel­he had to check in with his post and promised 

ND professor publishes book 

lowships. Melissa Waggoner Dieckmann, a DePauw us he would be back shortly. An hour later, 

•SOUTH BEND, In -"Victorian University graduate, and David Watkins, Jr., a graduatewe were still stranded and it was getting dark America: Transformations In of Washington University in St. Louis, received fel­out. We decided to walk the four miles to the Everyday Life, 1876-1915," by lowships to pursue environmental engineering. Paulnext exit so we could call a tow truck. As we were walking, a car pulled over. Although we 
Thomas Schlereth, professor of Tougaw earned his bachelor's degree from Rose-Hulman were wary, we decided to take the ride. 
American Studies at Notre Dame, Technical Institute and will study electrical engineering. Making decisions on your own is hard. 
has been published by Harper Once we got to a phone, we called a tow 
Collins. The volume, a Book of the truck and started to solve our problem. It felt 
Month Club selection, examines 
Student wins biblical studies grants 
good that we could handle the situation 

all aspects of American culture 
ourselves. The man who towed our car took and everyday life during a period when the country •sOUTH BEND, In-Peter Flint, a doctoral candidate at us to the luxurious Lee's Center Court Motel doubled in size and struggled to industrialize. A 1963 ND Notre Dame, was awarded a research grant and a travelin Nowheresville, NY. Little did we know that graduate, Schlereth teaches American cultural, urban, grant from the Endowment for Biblical Research. It is 

our little car problem would leave us 

landscape, and architectural history as well as material rare that one candidate receive two grants in the samestranded for two days. With each hour we culture studies at Notre Dame. y~ar, as competition for the grant is heavy. Flint, a nativewere stranded, the tension rose. Dealing with of South Africa and former teacher at the University ofstressful situations is hard. 
Transkei, is currently writing a dissertation on the DeadWhen I realized the extent of the damage to Sea Psalms Scrolls. 
my car, suddenly I didn't want to handle the situation by myself anymore. It was time to 

New director of audits named
call Dad. Dad told me to relax and go sit by the pool at the motel. Sometimes parents 

•SOUTH BEND, In -Kathleen Anthony, a 1985 NO 
N D receives $400,000 grant 
have trouble visualizing the situation you're 

graduate, will replace Louis Cohen as director of 
•SOUTH BEND, In -The University of Notre Dame hasin. Sometimes you just don't want to tell them 

University audits at Notre Dame. A Certified Public Ac­
received a three-year, $400,000 grant from the Pewhow bad it really is. Being away from your 

countant from Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Anthony has been 
Charitable Trusts for its Center for the Philosophy ofparents is hard. 

manager of the Dallas, Tex., branch of the accounting 
Religion. The grant is contingent upon the University'sThe second night we were stuck in NY, we 

firm Deloitte & Touche for five years. She is also a
decided to move up to the Holiday Inn. At this raising of an additional $1.32 million in gifts toward the 

founding partner and has served as treasurer of Anthony 
point we both needed to be in a place where Center's endowment. The Center was established in 1976 

Travel, Inc. Cohen, who will serve as a consultant to the 
we could get a good night's sleep. The next to promote, support and disseminate scholarly work in

new director during the fall semester, has served the
day we went back to the repair shop and 
Christian philosophy and the philosophy of religion. ItUniversity for 27 years. 

waited while they rmished my car. When they sponsors lectures, conferences and seminars on topics
presented me with the bill, I nearly died. 
such as belief in God and the problem of evil, and pro­Finding out how expensive things are is bard. 
vides fellowships for scholars visiting the university. 
Finally we were able to get back on the 

Corbaci receives national award 
road. Our trip was set back a day, but we had survived. At some points during the trip, I 

•SOUTH BEND, In -The American Association of thought I was going to loose my mind. The 
Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers presented Snite displays photos of Southwest experience reminded me of my time at Notre 
its 1991 Professional Development Award to Leo Corbaci, •sOUTH BEND, In -An exhibition including work of
Dame. In the past three years, I've had 

associate professor emeritus of economics at Notre 
such photographers as Ansel Adams, Jack O'Grady, andseveral set backs and many disappointments. 

Dame. The award acknowledges his contributions to the 
Mary Peck will be open through Sept. 15 in the SniteGoing away to school is hard, but nothing can 

association's national and state branches; Corbaci 
Museum's Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery. Thereplace the feeling of actually overcoming 

recently published a history of the Indiana branch of the 
collection, titled "Photographs of the American
difficulties and reaching your destination. 

association. Corbaci received a master's degree from NO 
Southwest," is meant to complement another exhibition,
The views expressed in the Inside Column 

in 1951 and later served as the dean of administration at 
"Victor Higgins: An American Master," currently on
are those of the author and not necessarily 

the university. 
display in the museum's O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
those ofThe Observer. 

Today's  Staff:  
Production:  Accent:  OF INTEREST  
Jeanne Blasi Rich Riley News: Paul Pearson Dave Kinney Monica Yant  Viewpoint: Joe Moody Sports: Rene Ferran Dave Dietman  John O'Brien Jahnelle Harrigan Photo: John Rock Marguerite Schropp Sean Farnan  •No off-campus students will be able to establish their telephone, gas, electric and cable television services at a special "STORE" (Student Order Entry System) being offered by Indiana Bell at Theodore's 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Monday through Wednesday. •sample food products from Notre Dame vendors at the "Taste of Notre Dame" on Monday at Stepan Field from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. South Dining Hall will be open, but North Dining Hall will be closed.  •Auditions for "The Crucible" will be held by ND Communication & Theatre at 7 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday in Washington Hall. •The Notre Dame Band has openings on all instruments for this upcoming year. For registration and complete information, come to the Koons Band Building as soon as you can or call239-7136. •student escorts are available on both campuses for  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are reserved.  •No Communication & Theatre will hold a meeting for all students who wish to become involved in theatrical productions this year on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Refreshments will be served.  students' safety. Notre Dame students can call Safewalk at 283-BLUE between 8 p.m. and 2 a.m. Saint Mary's students can call 284-5000 for a security escort.  

Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer page 3 


Over 200 transfer students will enroll at Notre Dame 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Over 200 transfer and re­admitted students will enter the University this year, according to Kevin Rooney, director of Admissions. 
This was a "fairly typical year," he said. Out of almost 700 applicants, 180 were admitted as transfers. An additional 50 will return to the University as re-admitted students. 
All transfers must also be ei­ther sophomores or juniors, with a grade point average of at least 3.0. Most applicants, however, enter with a grade point average of 3.5. 
Re-admitted students are students who have left the Uni­versity for various reasons. Those who leave to study on foreign programs not sponsored by Notre Dame are almost always guaranteed re­admission, Rooney said. 
Students who have been dis­missed for disciplinary mea­sures may •also apply for re­admission, he said, although there are "no guarantees" . 
The geographic profile of the 1991 transfers shows that 57 percent come from the Midwest, while an additional 20 percent hail from the Northeast. 
Eleven percent of the trans­fers come from the West, six percent from the South, and four percent from the South­west. 
Only two percent of this year's transfers are international students, Rooney said. 
Because transfers must apply directly to the college of their choice, admittance depends on college size and space availabil­ity. As it was last year, the largest group of transfers was admitted to the College of Busi­ness Administration, according to Rooney. Approximately 100 students will enter the College of Business. 
Figures for the other colleges also remained similar to last year, he said. About 70 students were admitted to the College of Arts and Letters, while 30 were added to both the College of Science and the College of Engineering. 
Because gender plays no role in admitting transfer students, the male-female ratio tends to vary from year to year. How­ever, he said that the percent­age usually hovers close to the overall 60-40 ratio of the Uni­versity. 
"It's safe to say that there are more men than women who transfer," Rooney said. 
Transfer students are not guaranteed housing, a fact that often places them on waiting lists that are "typically into the hundreds," according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of Student Residences. 
There are 169 males and 93 females on the housing waiting list this year, she said. 
Reinebold said that 63 fe­males on the list have already been offered a room, although many have not yet accepted the accommodations. 
.. We like an answer right away, but usually can wait 24 or 48 hours," she said. Often, 


the on 






~~P.!!~~ 
$ 
only perweek Monday-Saturday! 
Chicago Tribune provides Pulitzer 
Prize winning journalism, full­
color photography, and in­
depth regional, national and 
world news, and features: 
Great college and pro 


sports with color photos of the Big 10, Bulls, Bears and more! 
Top coverage of 
popular music, movies, art 
and trends. 

Complete. business and financial reporting to keep you on 
top of career planning. 
columnists and comics. 

Get the best price! Save 40°/o off regular prices. "Daily,"and "Daily and Sunday," subscriptions are available. Prices range from $1.25 to only $2.10 per week for convenient delivery. Credit cards accepted. 
Call TOLL-FREE: 1-800·TRIBUNE 

Ask for Operator 34. 

(fhirago [ribnne 

students need time to discuss finances and logistics with their families after being notified, which could delay the place­ment. 
None of the males on the waiting list have been contacted due to the fact that there are eight freshmen males still needing dorm roop1s, Reinebold said. She estimated that the freshmen should be accommo­dated within two weeks, at which time her office can begin 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
the process of placing the male  
transfers.  
"We hope to 'pick up some  
beds the first week of school,"  
Reinebold said.  
Although every transfer stu­ 
dent was  eventually offered  
housing last year, Reinebold  
said that an increase in the  
number of freshmen and a de­ 
crease in the number of stu­ 
dents moving off-campus could  
mean  less  opportunity  for  
transfers to live on campus.  
I  
1  
I  
J  
1  

WHIT IF 10U DOWTGO 
INTO THE 
SCHOOL OF 


YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there areother schools. But why settle? Kaplan prepcourses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first·choice schools. Fact is, noone has helped studentsscore higher! 

PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
272•4135 

Rocco's Restaurant Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's ·original Pizza· and a tradition with students since 1951· 
Only a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian Cuisine Try us and you'll agree 
Tues-Thurs 5 pm-12 am Fri -Sat 5 pm -1 am 
537 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 Closed Sunday & Monday 

Happy Golden Birthday Kim Cenedella 


20 on the 20th 
We love you 

tons, 

Mom, Dad, Mary Ann and Liz 
page4 The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991 




SMC student government faces several changes 
By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment is running smoothly and looking forward to instituting a number of improvements to the college this year, according to Student Body President Mau­reen Lowry. 
Several changes in the way that student government oper­ates were made last year in an attempt to improve the effi­ciency of the organization. This year there will be six policy committees to address issues on campus, including security, campus improvement, comput­ers, recycling, and recruiting. 
Through the security commit­tee, "there is going to be an assessment of security on cam­pus," said Lowry. They hope to install new lights, emergency phones, and mirrors in the corners of the tunnels through­out the year, as well as provide mace and rape whistles for those students who want them, she said. 
Lowry said that student gov­ernment will try to install more phones in the classroom build­ings and the library. They hope to get cable television service on campus and an outdoor au­tomatic teller machine to make residence life better for Saint Mary's students. 
The committee on computers and laser printers will solve the problem of too few computers and limited availability, she said. "We're trying to make computers more accessible for our students," said Lowry. 
Student government will also contribute to the recycling cause with a recycling liaison. 

Saint Mary's President William Hickey addresses his school's latest freshman class in the Angela Athletic Facility Friday. 
Whenyou partyremeinber to... 


Give vour heart 
an extra helping. 
Say no to high-fat foods. 
ASPIRfS To 
PUBLIC OffiC£. WITH THE. HE.lP OF kinko's 

1COULON 'T BE SECRETARY. 
l'MJUSTNOl THf. TYPE AND 
rCAN1TYPE. 
"I think we can help them with their processes and organizing the plastic and glass this year," she said. 
Another major concern, re­cruiting, will be addressed by a Student Alliance of Women's Colleges, she said. They plan to work on forming a network of representatives from several women's colleges, she said, in order to improve on recruiting around the country. 
"We want to promote our school to girls in high school by promoting the benefits of an all-girls college," she said. 
Student government has been condensed into a more efficient two-board system composed of a board of governance and a board of student activities, ac­cording to Lowry. The change should "reduce a lot of ambigu­ity" among the various student government positions. 
Lowry said that stud~nt gov­ernment will continually try to address the perennial concern of improving relations between the students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The first concrete action to this end will be to recruit a rep­resentative of ND student gov­ernment to serve as a liaison on the Saint Mary's Board of Gov­ernance. They also hope to se­cure more funds for the ND/SMC Relations Committee in order to render it more effec­tive, she said. 
Lowry will be assisted by Meg McGowan, vice president of student activities, and Colleen Rhattigan, vice president of academic affairs. 
Student government already has a number of events to bring in the new year, said Lowry, in-eluding the following: 
•Notre 
Dame freshman women are invited to attend a dinner on Monday with Saint Mary's freshman at the Library Green on the campus of SMC. 

•Student 
government is spon­soring a used book sale from Aug. 26-31, in order to give students a way to get books more conveniently and cheaply. 

•Fall 
Fun Weekend, from Aug. 29-31, will give students the opportunity to see several Kevin Costner movies and go on a dunes trip, among other things. 


Other September activities at Saint Mary's include Senior Disorientation Week, Activities Night, and the Irish Ethnic Party, accordina to Lowry. 

Notre Dame Medieval Institute receives $629,000 grant to preserve old volumes 


umes in the Medieval Institute's library -about one-half -fall within the 'brittle books' period of 1800 to 1950, according to Sophia Jordan, head of the li­braries' special collections and preservation and director of the project. 
During that time, Jordan said, book publishers switched from linen and cotton rag paper to wood pulp paper to meet the demand of the reading public for more and cheaper books. Unfortunately, she said, over time acid forms in these books and the paper turns brittle. 
The NEH grant will enable the preservation of a critical inter-
Special to The Observer 
A three-year grant of more than $629,000 has been awarded to the University of Notre Dame by the National Endowment for the Humanities to support a program to preserve the content of embrittled scholarly volumes in the library of the University's Medieval Institute. 
Since its founding in 1946, the Institute has been one of the leading centers for medieval studies in the world. The collec­tion is used daily by faculty and students at Notre Dame, and the Institute regularly hosts visiting international scholars. 
A significant number of vol-
Welcome Students 

Bible Study Join 
Us! 
national resource in medieval scholarship, according to Robert Miller, director of University Libraries. The grant will support a microfilming program that will preserve the cont~nts of more than 12,000 embrittled volumes particularly rich for. studying medieval intellectual life, he said. 
The grant is one of 29 recently-awarded NEH preservation grants in 18 states and the District of Columbia totalling $12 million and intended to help support the preservation of deteriorating books and newspapers and to help stabilize irreplaceable material culture collections. 

BAPTIST Student Union 
-Fellowship -Fun 
See us at Activities Night 
O.K. SO I'VE HAD SORT Of AN TO DO SOMEllHNG ABOUT IT. V. P? THEY WIND UP DOING UNDISTINGUI5HED ACADEMt< BUT CLASS PRES\DENT? TOO MffiTOfTHE REAL WORK CAREfR. IT'S NOT TOO LAlt: MUC+l RfSI>ONS IBl LJTY. ' 
-~----~~------~--­
Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer page 5 
SMC workers renovate dining hall, art gallery 

By DAVID KINNEY Assistant News Editor 
There was little renovation or construction on the campus of Saint Mary's this summer, and no major construction is planned for this fall, according to John Marshall, superinten­dent of building and grounds. 
Crews are continuing work that began this summer on the dining hall, he said. They en­larged and renovated the serv­ing lines, and upgraded the salad bar and soup bar lines. 
Some safety work was done on the dining hall's exterior and around the entrances, he said. 
Asbestos problems were treated in areas of several buildings on campus, includingReflection Madeleva Hall, Haggar College Center, Moreau Hall, and
The Grotto provided a perfect opportunity for these people to take a break from Orientation Friday. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
"We took out the stuff that was of immediate concern this summer," Marshall said. 
Asbestos, he continued, is not a concern on campus, because it is almost entirely encapsu­lated and does not pose a health threat for students. 
The crews did normal sum­mer-time painting in many of the halls, including Madeleva Hall and all of Havican Hall. Marshall said that rather than the normal white walls, they tried "different color schemes in the classrooms to brighten them up a bit." 
The area of Hammes Art Gallery was doubled to create more room for art displays, he said. 
Exterior work on the campus included sidewalk repair and the construction of handicap
=-----iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iilliill;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iilliilliilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:.------------.ramps into various buildings,
r 
• 20-30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
• 
$5. 10 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 


OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, August 27th 4:00 -6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 

F U N 0 
~~~ 
If you have any questions, please call: Mike Brach 239-7938 or Patty Studebaker 239-7241 
he said. 
TilE AMERICAN HEART ASS<D:IATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAMe 

WE'RE FIGHTlf\G FOR 'OJRUFE 
t ' 
American Heart ft Association V 
This space provided as a public service. 


\ 

-, • .. ,;. " , ...;. • --'"~ •, I; -· t , . " ,.. ._ w 
pages The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991 
ND security increases nightly ca.mpus patrols 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame Security had a fairly quiet summer, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant di­rector of Campus Security. 
Campus Security's summer activities, Hurley said, consisted mainly of re-routing on-campus traffic around the many construction projects. "It was something of an inconvenience for automotive traffic, but I think it resulted in a betterment of the campus," he said. 
This year, Hurley said, Cam­pus Security was authorized by its budget to hire an additional police officer, who will be con­ducting "perimeter patrols" of the campus nightly between 8 
p.m. and 4 a.m. 
During Orientation Weekend, Hurley said, Rex Rakow, direc­tor of Campus Security, will be making a presentation to new students and parents during the Information Fair Saturday from 4-6 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The session, Hurley said, will focus on personal safety and the hazards of traveling off­campus. New students, he said, should be aware that "they can go just south of the campus and quickly meet up with people who want to relieve them of their personal property." 
Richard Chlebek, director of Security at Saint Mary's, said that his department spent the summer working on a crime prevention program to be given in the halls during the academic year. 
Saint Mary's Security has also prepared placards on personal safety and crime prevention, Chlebek said. The placards will be posted in the residence halls, the Dining Hall, Haggar College Center and the off-campus student lounge. 
Chlebek said that his depart­ment will continue its student escort program, which picks up Saint Mary's students nightly at the Grotto bus shelter after the shuttle stops its service for the evening. 
N D student government makes plans for new year 
with the multi-cultural execu­tive council in a program which would bring some sort of "cultural diversity sessions" to the dorms. 
Student government will con­tinue to operate the FRED line, a program by which the stu­dents can dial FRED and send their opinions and suggestions to student government. 
The other major project stu­dent government is working on is the lecture series, which brings nationally renowned speakers to Notre Dame. While they have no firm commitments yet, Blanco said that he is op­timistic that they will be able to bring some well-known speak­ers to the campus. 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Saint Mary's is prepared for this decline, according to Rowan. In 1984, the College de­clared that the quality of Saint Mary's would not be compro­mised as a result of the demo­graphic decline. Rowan said that admissions standards have not declined. 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame student gov­ernment has several projects lined up for the 1991-92 aca­demic year, according to Stu­dent Body President Joseph Blanco. 
One of the main projects they are working on, Blanco said, is a report on teaching and re­search at the University, which will be presented to the Board of Trustees at its meeting next February. 
"We are still recruiting people for this project," he said. "We want to put together a very good group of people for this." 
Blanco said that student gov­ernment also hopes to work 
SMC 
oontinued from page 1 
years ago. Demographic studies show the pool of 18-year-olds has declined from 4.3 million in 1979 to 3.2 million for 1994. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Carpet sales 
Pictu~ed from left to ~ight are John Goldstein, Tony Yocum, Scott Hazen and Ryan Hallford practicing AmeriCan free enterpnse at the carpet sales on the Stepan Courts Friday. · 
NO wins $200,000 judgement 
Special to The Observer 
The Universities of Notre Dame and Southern California, UCLA and Ohio University have received a $200,000 court judgement in settlement of claims of counterfeiting and in­fringement of their trademarks by Creative Apparel, Inc., a Long Island-based soft goods manufacturer. 
Creative Apparel had manu­factured and sold sweatshirts, t­shirts and other goods bearing the universities' names and trademarks without obtaining licenses from the institutions. 
The universities had filed a civil action in January in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York and had received an order permitting seizure of all counterfeit mer­chandise and related business records from Creative AppareL 
In addition to the monetary judgement, the settlement in­cludes a permanent injunction barring Creative Apparel from any future manufacture or sale of unauthorized goods bearing the universities' names or trademarks. 
Jeffrey Laytin of the New York City law finn Lewing & Laytin, P.C., represented the universi­ties in the action. 

The Carpet Remnant 
2220 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 
TOTAL LIQUIDATION 

-1 
~-..--~---------------------------------------------------~---------~-~----------~­
Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer page 7 

The Observer/John Rock
Forward march 
Members of Notre Dame's Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps march in the B-2 parking lot Friday. 
Michel receives Fulbright grant 
Special to The Observer 
Anthony Michel, the Mc­Closkey Dean of the College of Engineering and Freimann Pro­fessor of electrical engineering at the University has been awarded a Fulbright Scholar Grant for the upcoming aca­demic year. 
Michel, who has been at Notre Dame since 1984, re­ceived his grant to lecture and conduct research at Technical University of Vienna (Austria) from March to June 1992. 
A native of Romania, Michel holds a doctorate in applied mathematics from the Techni­cal University of Graz (Austria) as well as a doctorate and a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and a master's in mathematics from Marquette University. 
Michel is known internation-

Anthony Michel 
ally for his fundamental re­search in systems engineering, particularly on the stability theory of dynamical systems. Before coming to Notre Dame, he taught and conducted re­search at Iowa State University from 1968-84. 
He is a fellow and a medalist of the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers. 
Michel will join approximately 1,800 U.S. scholars, teachers and students who will conduct research, study and teach worldwide during the 1991-92 academic year as part of the Fulbright program. 
Founded in 1946 under legis­lation introduced by former Sen. J William Fulbright of Arkansas, the Fulbright Scholar Program is designed to "increase the mutual under­standing between the people of the United States and the peo­ple of other countries.' 
Selection to the program is based on academic and profes­sional qualifications, as well as a willingness to share ideas and experiences with those from different cultures. 
The program is funded and administered by the United States Information Agency. 
Back To School 

REMNANT SALE 
10% To 20% OFF 

Over  800  remnants  Hundreds  of colors  
Delivery  available  Hundreds  of sizes  
Our  aale  price is in addition  to  the  

already discounted posted price. Actual aavin~ are up to 40X off reQular prices. 
2n-s111 

MON.-FRI.9:00-8:30eCARPETaVINYL SAT.9:00-5:30
•WOOO.CEAAMIC 
SUN.1 :00-5:30 

•AREA RUGS 
FLOOR Oec~ators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road 
TAKE HOME SAMPLES AVAILABlE ALL PRICES CLEARLY MAAKED FRU ESTIMATES LARGEST INVENTORY EXPERT INSTALLATION 
Five NO professors win NEH fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
Five members of the Univer­sity faculty have won fellow­ships from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for the 1991-92 academic year. 
The five awards continue a trend at Notre Dame, which has had 24 NEH faculty fellows since 1985-86-the fifth highest in the nation among private universities and tied seventh overall. 
The NEH fellows from Notre Dame for 1991-92 are: 
•Theodore Cachey, assistant professor of romance lan­guages, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990. He·re· ceived a $30,000 fellowship for a project titled, "Between His­tory and Literature: Romance Representation of New World Encounter (1492-1992)." 
Cachey holds a bachelor's de­gree from Northwestern Uni­versity and master's and doc­toral degrees from UCLA. 
•Ethan Haimo, chairman and associate professor of music, who will work on a project in­volving Arnold Schoenberg and the birth of atonality with a $30,000 fellowship. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1976, he has a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago and a master's and doctorate from Princeton University. 
•Carlos Jerez-Farran, assis­tant professor of romance lan­guages and literatures, received a $30,00 fellowship to study the theater of FedericJ Garcia Lorca and the hidden sources of his inspiration. 
Jerez-Farran came to Notre Dame in 1986, earning his 
J_ 
SMC 

Fri., Aug 23 
1:30 p.m. 

LITTLE THEATRE MOREAU HALL 

bachelor's degree at the Uni­versity of Sheffield in England and his master's and doctorate from the University of Mas­sachusetts at Amherst. 
•Donald Kommers, professor of law and professor of gov­ernment and international studies, will work with an $85,505 fellowship to study American constitutionalism in comparative perspective. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1963, he is also director of the Center for Civil Rights, director of the Western European Studies Program and editor of "Review of Politics." 
Kommers holds a bachelor's degree from Catholic University of America and a master's and doctorate from the University of Wisconsin. 
•Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy, re­ceived a $52,148 fellowship for work on Pascal's posthumously published Pensees. A Notre Dame faculty member since 1981, Morris earned a bache­lor's degree from the University of North Carolina and his mas­ter's and doctorate from Yale University. 
Notre Dame is tied with Rut­gers University for seventh among all schools in the num­ber of NEH fellowships won since 1985-86. Leading the way are Columbia, Harvard and Princeton Universities with 31 each. 
The University of Michigan is fourth with 27, followed by Berkeley with 26 and the Uni­versity of Chicago with 25. 
Trailing Notre Dame and Rutgers are Indiana University, which is ninth with 2 3, and Stanford with 21. 
INFORMATION 
SESSIONS 

IRELAND PROGRAM 
ND 
Sat., Aug 24 
4:00 p.m. JOYCE ACC 
(after general session) 


STUDENTS AND PARENTS WELCOME 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Organizational meeting and Auditions 7:00P.M. VVednesday,August28 VVashington Hall Mainstage 
All students interested in any aspect of theatrical production are encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. 
Auditions for The Crucible will follow the meeting. 


page 8 The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991 
ND/SMC women invited to dinner 
By PAUL PEARSON students will be exposed to year's turnout will be better, Associate News Editor stereotypes about each other since the dinner is listed in the during the Orientation week­orientation literature of both 
The Saint Mary's Library end, he hopes that the dinner Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Green will host a dinner for all will provide them, "an opportu­female first-year students of nity to come together, meet one In its research, Stumpf said, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's another, and build a good base the committee found that a lot Monday from 4:30 p.m. to 6 upon which to judge the stereo­of students could "rattle ofT" a 
p.m. types." lot of the stereotypes about the 
The dinner will be presented The committee held a similar two campuses. However, he 
by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's picnic at Saint Mary's last year. said, "when we asked them if 
Relations Committee. Ted However, Stumpf said that the they ever met anyone from the 
Stumpf, the founder of the turnout from Notre Dame was other campus, they said 'No.'" 
committee, said that the dinner very light and very disappoint­
will offer the freshmen of each ing, something he hopes will not The ultimate goal of the 
campus the chance to meet be repeated this year. committee, Stumpf said, is "to 
each other before they are ex­Brigid Brooks, the ND Student relieve a lot of the stereotypes 
posed to the stereotypes the two Senate representative to the on the campuses." Although he 
campuses tend to hold about committee, believes that the low admits that this will be "no each other. turnout was due to lack of small task," he is hopeful that Although he believes that the advertising. She hopes that this the goal can be achieved. 
Projects 
continued from page 1 
on the east end of campus. Dedrick said that presently 100 two-bed apartments are com­plete and another 100 will be fmished by Dec. 1. 
• The D-6 parking lot, which serves South Quad students, 
ND 

continued from page 1 
ceived, with Hispanics compris­ing nearly one-half of the pool. 
This marks the third consec­utive year that the University met its goal of 15 percent, a goal that was met prior to the 1992 deadline. 
"Our goal now is to surpass it (15 percent)," he said. 
Rooney noted a slight de­crease in the number of African-Americans in the class was paved and marked. 
• 
Two of the elevators in Hesburgh Library have been replaced by faster, more effi­cient ones; the other two will be replaced in the fall and will cut down on waiting time for students, said Dedrick. 

• 
The old Aerospace Research Building near the baseball field has been razed 


• 

of 1995. Hispanics and Native Americans increased slightly, but Rooney stressed that all changes "are very small." 
Children of alumni number approximately 25 percent of the freshman class, Rooney said. or these students, who compete against each other for admission, he estimates that "at least one-half would have been admitted clearly without being alumni." 
"They're clearly well-quali­fied," Rooney said of the alumni applicants. 
The male-female ratio 
and a parking lot is being constructed. 
Future construction work on campus includes improving the intersections of Juniper and Edison and Juniper and Dou­glas by repaving, putting in stoplights, and making room for left-tum lanes. This will in­volve some road closings and detours, according to Dedrick. 
changed slightly this year, with women moving up one point to 38 percen.t. 
Gender-blind admissions will begin with the applicants in 1992, according to Rooney. This process will, for the first time, enroll "a percentage of women equitable with their credentials," he said. 
The switch to gender-blind admissions should raise the number of females to approxi­mately 43 percent, a swing of 5 percent. 


HowYou Like Pizza At Home. 


-----~--­

------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~-----~---------------------~-­
Saturday, August 24, 1991 
Archaeological excavation unearths campus artifacts 
Special to The Observer 
Anthropologists at Notre 
Dame have completed an ar­
chaeological dig conducted this 
summer around the University's 
founder's monument, Old 
College and the Log Chapel to 
learn more about everyday life 
early in the University's history. 
James Bellis, chairman and associate professor of anthropology, says most of what has been known until now about the lives of the first students, faculty and religious has been limited to what was deemed by early leaders important enough to write down. 
"Unfortunately, this is not al­ways the best picture of their everyday lives," he said. 
What they ate for supper, whether there were lean or fat times, tend not to get mentioned in the archives, Bellis says, and leadership records and statistics may not be as important to a community's evolution as the dynamics among people. 
Two types of deposits were found during the five-week dig, according to Mark Schurr, the visiting assistant professor of anthropology who directed the excavation. 
In one location workers dis­covered the original ground surface about three feet below the present ground surface. The top three feet of soil contained "junk and garbage of all types," says Schurr, including brick and large pieces of pottery and crockery from the last century. He believes the garbage was in­tentionally thrown there to pro­vide a fill for the site. 
In addition, both domestic 
and wild animal bones, 
including fish, mammals, and 
many immature animals, were 
well-preserved on the site. Deer 
and catfish remains were the 
predominant wild animals 
found, as well as remains of 
goose or perhaps wild turkey. 
"I also think that the mix of 
wild and domesticated animal 
bones is very interesting," 
Schurr said. "Does that mean 
that they preferred a broader 
diet, or was there an economic 
reason why they had to use 
wild animals as food? Right 
now we aren't certain." 
The other site examined by researchers had a thin layer of construction debris, "stuff that appears to come from a build­ing," Schurr said. 
Archaeology attempts to re­construct the patterns of human behavior from its material remains, Bellis said. "One of the most objective tools for the study of human behavior," he said, "is the stuff that's left behind. I can't imagine that a Neanderthal edited his garbage." 
The excavation is complete, but what remains, according to Schurr, is a large collection of artifacts that will be analyzed and dated in the coming year. These artifacts will provide the basis for research papers and several student projects, he said. 
The dig was conducted now because the University's founding site will receive new architectura] and landscaping treatments to visually unite the three elements for the University's Sesquicentennial celebration. · 

The Obs~rver 


Tihe Observer/Sean Farnan 
Tryouts 

The world-renowned Notre Dame Marching Band conducts tryouts on a bright, sunny Friday on the Stepan Fields. 
page 9 

Robotics lab gets $2,500 from police 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's Robotics Re­

search Laboratory has been 
awarded $2,500 from the South 
Bend Police Department to 
build a manipulating device for 
the removal of explosives by 
the department's bomb disposal 
team. 
The device, a lightweight, te­

lescopic stick extending to 
about 15 feet, will be operated 
by a fully-suited bomb 
technician, who will control a 
grappling hook on the extended 
end to move bombs and other 
explosives. 
The robotics laboratory personnel will use the design of similar devices already commercially available, but will include additional features, according to Michael Stanisic, assis tant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering and project coordi­nator. 
With Notre Dame's help, said Corporal Ron Karch of the South Bend bomb squad, the police department will have a device that improves on what is commercially available and costs less. 
If this project is successful, researchers hope to pursue another goal, the construction of a robot for the purpose of bomb removal. Bomb technicians would like to have a remote controlled robot with video capabilities that could maneuver stairs, Karch said. 
Once again the Notre Dame robotics lab is willing to partici­pate. 


Don't you want to keep in touch with what's going on around campus after you're gone??? 
Subscribe to The Observer. 
Published Monday through Firday, Make checks payable to: The Observer The Observer is a vital source of and mail to: P.O. Box Q information on people and events in Notre Dame, IN 46556 
the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. Enclosed is $40 for one academic year. 
D

Join the more than 12,000 readers who have found The Observer an Enclosed is $25 for one semester.
D

indispensible link to the two Name _______________________________________ campuses. Complete the 
Address __________________________________
accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your CitY------------State Zip ---­home for $25 a semester or $40 for a 
Renewal 0 ND/SMC Graduate Class of ______ full year. D Freshman Parent
D 

.. 

Saturday, August 24, 1991
page 10 The Observer 
't(:~-r· 



SALE3f9.99 
BATH TOWELS 

Reg. 3.99 ea. All-cotton towels in bright solids. By Home Collection. 
PLAIN HEM SHEETS 
Reg. 4.99. Flat or fitted 180-thread count cotton/polyester solid sheets. 
Regular ~es appearing are offering prices only. Sales may or may not have been made at regular prices. Sale prices on regular priced merchandise effective through Monday. Dynasty through Sept. 7. Plain Hem through Sept. 14. Other sizes also on sale. Percentages off represent savings on regular prices, as shown. 
CATCH THE TEAIVI SPIRIT! NOTRE DAME APPAREL FOR THE ENTIRE FAMIL V 
You'll be rooting for your favorite college athletic team in style. JCPenney has one of the most complete collections of Notre Dame Team Apparel in the area. Check us out! 
SALE 
I BATH 
THEJCPENNEY TERRY TOWELS 
Reg. $8. Thick, combed cotton towels in decorator colors. 27x50". Sale 3.99. Reg. $6. Coordinating hand towels. Sale 2.29. Reg. $3. Washcloths or fingertip towels. 
SQOfoOFF 

VELLU~ BLANKETS 
Sale 17.49. Reg. $35. Twin size. Nylon flocking over polyurethane foam. 
JCPenney
Fashion comes to lifesm 
Charge it at: University Park Mall -Mishawaka Phone: 277-6000 
• ·----·-· --­

--, 
.i 
... -. ' .. -. 
Viewpoint
page 11 Saturday, August 24, 1991 ' I 1 
1 
=Ih~Obsenrer= 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ...............David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Be smart: It can happen to you 
As new students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, you are probably enjoying the beauty of the two campuses.The lakes, the trees and the various landmarks that mark our campuses most likely are part of the reason you chose your school. 
Unfortunately, our surroundings can be misleading. While both campuses seem protected, we are not as isolated as we appear to be. This weekend, in addition to meeting new people, setting up your new home and getting ready to start classes, we urge you to also think about safety and security, both on and ofT-campus. 
As both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's security will stress, students must take precautions to ensure personalsafety on and off-campus. There are areas that are dangerous on our campuses-namely the road between the campuses (Saint Marfs Road), isolated parts of the St. Joseph and St. Marys Lakes, and the area by the Grotto. You must also be cautious of any areas where lighting is poor. 
At Notre Dame, there is an escort service called SafeWalk. The phone number is 283-BLUE, and trained students will escort you anywhere around campus. After SafeWalk hours, call 283-4444 and Notre Dame Security will provide an escort home. For an escort at Saint Mary's, call Security at 284-5000. Saint Mary's students should take the shuttle rather than walk back from Notre Dame alone. The services are there for your safety. If you can't travel in groups at night, call an escort. 
Another concern for students is ofT-campus safety. OfT­campus. as well as on, the best protective measure you can take is to travel in groups. However, even when you're in groups you must be particularly careful in the area southwest of campus. The "four corners" area, where several bars are located, is notorious for frequentmuggings and other assaults. 
Please do not walk between the bars or from the bars to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The surrounding area is dangerous and even if you are traveling in groups, you may be asking for trouble. 
Finally, as you get settled in your new home you need to realize that it's your responsibility to protect your personal property. Thefts do happen in the dorms and in ofT-campus apartments and houses. Even if you are onlygoing out for a little while, lock your door. 
You'll no doubt hear these words several times over the weekend. Be smart. Heed the warnings. It can and does happen. Even here. Even to people like yourself. 

, l ; ; .;, -?-:.. ...._. ~---------..... ----.. 
LEitERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Class of 1995: 

It is my privilege to welcome you to Notre Dame on behalf of 1----­all my colleagues here at the University. We have a beautiful campus and a stimulating learning environment. Soon I &........,;;;_..._"""""_.;...-..;~-....,-ill hope you will call it home. I hope that you can build on 
You have already distin-this foundation and bring to guished yourselves in high Notre Dame the richness of school for your academic your talent, energy and enthu­achievement and your leader-siasm. This is a tradition-laden ship role. place but ev-ery generation 
Saint Mary's president expresses hopes to incoming Class of 1995 
Dear Class of 1995: 

Welcome to Saint Mary's Col­lege! You are about to begin what we hope will be one of the most rewarding four-year peri­ods of your life. We are excited to have you here. 
The liberal arts education you will receive at Saint Mary's will yield a solid foundation for life, but the strength of this founda­tion will be only as sound as your commitment to learn. You will need to probe, question, search and grow during your years at Saint Mary's. Take advantage of the knowledge that is here waiting to be dis­covered. 
Take time to get to know your professors. They care about you and they want to participate in your education. If you are willing and receptive, they will guide you through classes and help you see how your course work applies to the real world. 
Saint Mary's has been dedi­cated to helping students de-
Y£~ !! 
'Never let your schooling get in the way of your education.' 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND.IN 46556 
velop their individual talents for nearly 150 years. As a Catholic institution, the College is committed to seeing each student grow academically, spiritually and culturally. The many clubs and organizations available on the campus were created by the diversity of our students. 
There are varsity and intra­mural sports, the campus newspaper, yearbook and liter­ary magazine; student govern­ment offers opportunities to represent your fellow students and is a forum for affecting change. Participating in these activities will help you experi­ence campus life. Through these experiences you will de­velop friendships that you will treasure for a lifetime. 
For several months you have anticipated your first year of college. Now that you have ar­rived, you may find the transi­tion from home to campus is not as simple as you imagined it would be. I assure you that you are not alone. All of us at Saint 
JAKE fROST QUOTE Of THE DAY 
Mary's want to help you adjust to the changes that are taking place in your life. 
Counselors, faculty, adminis­trators and the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross are here to help you succeed and to make you feel at home. All you need to do is seek us out. 
Wonderful opportunities await. As you begin your first year at Saint Mary's, I challenge you to get involved. Participate in the extracurricular activities that are offered and commit yourself to stretching your abilities in the classroom. Commit yourself to developing your talents and growing as a human being. 
Your four years at Saint Mary's will become a memory before you know it. Spend them wisely, for they will provide the foundation for all of the goals you set for the years ahead. 
William Hickey President Saint Mary's College 
Aug. 22, 1991 

needs to take on the challenges of the present. 
I pray that Notre Dame may become a special place for you as it has been for so many other graduates of the past. I look forward to meeting you personally. 
Father Edward Malloy President University of Notre Dame 
Aug. 22, 1991 


Ac
Page 12 
I 
i I 
t 
i 
r 
} 
1 
I 
' 
The Notre Dame Man: Atestosterone time bomb? 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Accent Editor 

elcome to Notre Dame! 
W 
Bah humbug. By now, you are probably tired of hearing stories about what it's like to go to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Well, The Observer, as always, would like to put it's two cents in. On these pages, you will find three different perspectives on the ND/SMC experience: One for the Notre Dame man, one for the Notre Dame woman and one for the Saint Mary's woman. Take this advice with a grain of salt, as nobody here (even the authors of all that orientation literature) really knows anything. The only thing you can do is to try and tread water and survive until you think you know what the hell is going on. Only then can you spew forth a load of bull and pass it off as advice. Anyway, this article is being directed at the Notre Dame man. Women should read the other articles on these pages for two reasons. First, except for an occasional cross-dressing episode, I know very little about being a woman. Second, it's time for a man to man talk. Now that all the women have stopped reading, let's get down to business, men. Don't worry, I'm not going to explain the birds and the bees, because, frankly, I'm not so sure of them myself. First, as a new student, accept the fact that you are at the bottom of the totem pole. Do you know that crud that hardens on the bottom of dishes after they've been left in the sink for weeks? That's you. I mean that in the nicest wav. You were probably the Big Man in high school. Varsity letter winner, student body president, valedictorian-you were quite a stud. At Notre Dame, everyone was the Big Man in high school. Now we're all just little fish in a big pond. If you want to succeed-in school, around the dorm, with women-you need to know some inside secrets. That's where I come in. In the dining hall, walking down the aisles flexing your muscles and pushing skinny guys around is not cool. Women will think you are some kind of testosterone time bomb and the skinny guys will simply kill you while you sleep. You live with them, remember. Don't whine about the dining hall food. Sure, it's not as good as Mom's, but whining will only make the cooks mad. Remember, you don't know what they're putting in that stew. Going to class will be an experience. Dress casual-you've got no one to impress. Even though it might be the first time you've gone to class with women since eighth grade, don't dress up like it's your prom. Believe me, after a while, both men and women don't look so hot. 
On that subject, be careful of criticizing the way women look during class or in the dining hall. Not only will that. make them think you are Male Scum (they like to use that title a lot), but it might be hypocritical. 
Try this: go out drinking until 4 a.m. on a Thursday. Wake up for your 8 
a.m. class. Roll out of bed and look in the mirror. Then say, ..I:m John Doe (well, insert YOUR name) and I'm a Handsome Guy." You probably look so 
ugly that YOU wouldn't even kiss you. 
Think about that before you criticize. 
Parties will be fun. You will not be 
the first freshman guy to overestimate 
your ability to consume a]cohol. 
At least once you will wake up some 
morning on the steps of the 
Administration Building dressed in a 
ninja outfit, covered in vomit and 
holding hands with some girl that 
you've never seen before and you're 
not so sure you want to see again. 
Tell your parents you've had a 
growth experience. 
Odds are your present roommate will 
probably be the Person You Hate Most 
by say, April. Try to tolerate him, even 
if he does listen to the New Kids and 
still wears his high school letter jacket. 
If it gets to be too much, wait until he 
passes out and then, calmly, CLUB HIM 
LIKE A BABY SEAL. But don't let your 
rector hear you. 
SYR's are as much fun as everybody 
says. When searching for a date, try to 
find someone you know. If you do 
resort to using the dogbook, don't just 
look at the girl's face. Look at her 
major and interests, too. For instance, 
this is a profile of a bad date: 
Looks: 10. Good. 
Major: Veterinary science. Bad, suggests she would rather take care of animals than take care ofyou. 
Interests: Socializing. Bad. means she talks a lot. Breathing. Bad, she probably has to concentrate to do it. 
A good date looks like this: Looks: 7. Not bad. although braided mole hairs might be cause for concern. Major: Brain surgeon: Good-big bucks. 
Interests: Dancing naked while caked in baby oil. Enough said. 
When you go to an SYR, always ltive your date something, and no, ..Lots of Beer" does not qualify. Flowers are a sure hit, but try to avoid Irish Gardens on a Friday-too crowded. 
The best gift, though, is something original. A fish, a mouse or an ND toilet seat cover will win the heart of any young lady, especially if they started drinking before you got there. 
Studying is one of the most important things to do at Notre Dame. The key to being successful in your classes is to know when to study and when not to study. 
For instance, if you only study while walking to your exam, you might want to increase the time you spend studying. 
However, if you miss the first half of the ND vs. USC game to fmish a paper due in two weeks, I can only say one thing to you: get a clue, pal. 
Parietals are interesting. Imagine you are at home, and your sister is in your bedroom listening to music. Certainly your mother would come in at midnight and kick the little hussie out. Thankfully, we have the University to take mom's place. 
Keep in mind that this stuff is just rough guidelines for success. If any of this advice fails you, tough. Don't blame me if you can't handle the pressures of being a Notre Dame Man. 
In all seriousness, take everything as it comes. Don't worry about fitting in because everybody makes mistakes-that's what being new here is all about. 
So heed my advice, men, as you venture forth on your Notre Dame career. And may the force be with you. 


Saint Mary's: More than just, 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
W 
ell, you've finally made it. 
You've arrived at Saint 
Mary's and you've placed all 
your important memorabilia 
into your dorm room. Your room is now 
the perfect home away from home. 
That's the easy part of college 
orientation. 
Now comes the real orientation-not the 
three days of events prepared by Saint 
Mary's, but the orientation that evolves 
from the actual experience of college. 
Everyone has some image of what 
college will be like. But no matter how 
much you know about attending Saint 
Mary's, a few things will surprise you. 
When I arrived on campus last year I 
was a little overwhelmed, to say the least. 
The Saint Mary's campw. was unfamiliar. 
The mile hike to the Notre Dame campus 
seemed to take forever, and once there, it 
was almost impossible to find my way 
around. 
Rest assured, things do get easier-in 
time. 
While I eventually became accustomed 
to my surroundings, there are a few things 
I wish I had known a year ago. 
First, the Notre Dame campus is not as 
confusing as it seems. You will quickly be 
able to find the dorms and other campus 
landmarks. · 
If you do get lost, though, find your way 
back to the dome. Conveniently enough, 
Mary is pointing the way back to Saint 
Mary's (OK, I stiJI do not think that's true, 
but maybe it will help you). 

Notre Dame's South Dining HaJI is not a 
dorm (although you would not be the first 
to mistake it for one). 

While the graffiti dance is not the key to 
your social success, the dogbook is. 

Being called a SMiC chick is not a • 
compliment-you ~II learn why later. 
Parietals at Saint Mary's are a lot stricter than at Notre Dame. Be prepared to have male guests only during certain hours, and then kno~ that they must leave an ID at the front desk and be escorted at all times. 
I know it seems odd, but it is a policy that has been around for a long time and probably will not change for a while. Besides, NO men do not make the trek too often. 
Get used to walking. Camping out for football tickets will generally not get you better seats. 
Be prepared for the annual ND panty raid. Yes, it is a bit absurd and out of date, but with the right preparation you can have a lot of fun with it. 
Make sure the panties you decide to throw out of your window are either obnoxious or the type you would buy at Frederick's of Hollywood. 
Also make sure that they are signed with a unique message and your phone number. Just remember to be creative and 
cent Page 13 

~long walk from Notre Dame 
you may receive a few phone calls. You may not be a heavy sleeper now, but 
I have never heard of anyone forming a learn to sleep with music blaring at all lasting relationship from a panty raid call, hours of the night, people running down but there is always a first time for the hall, and the conversations going on in everything. the room above and next door. 
At the beginning of the year, make sure All Saint Mary's residence halls have you fill out your room damage report com­quiet hours posted, but they are seldom pletely. Include damage that might not be obeyed. done to your room now, but will most The Cushwa-Leighton library is the likely be done before you vacate it in the perfect place to nap if you can no longer
spring. take the noise on your floor any Saint Mary's does not check to see if the longer-just be sure you do not talk in damage you put down is actually there your sleep or snore. until the end of the year. I guarantee that people on all four floors of the library will hear you. It truly is that 
Get used to waiting in lines. The one you quiet in there. waited in to receive your billing number Be prepared to eat meals with unusual will not be the longest or the slowest. names and ingredients. Marriott Food 
Do not be too discouraged when Service is known for making countless attempting to find a date for your own dishes with their universal sauce, so be SYR. The best way to find one is to simply ready to eat what may not look like sit in a room with a phone, a dogbook, a yesterday's entree, but sure will taste like 
phone book, and a group of friends. Start it. with a the A's, and dial to the Z's if you The dining hall food will not be as goodhave to. once your parents leave. 
Whatever you do, make sure you ask This is not a complete list ofwhat it is someone-you probably won't regret it. like to be a new student at Saint Mary's. Believe me, after a while you will build up You will encounter things you didn't ex­a tolerance to rejection. pect, and in time you will be able to deal 
Everyone has had an awful SYR with anything. experience. You will not be the first, and For now, sit back and enjoy the ride. It you certainly will not be the last. If it will be a exciting experience. And no really is that terrible you can always matter what kind of embarrassing things escape through the maze of people and you do, you will live to tell about them. find a place where he can't locate you in You might even laugh about them-after Hagga~ . you've been here for a while, that is. 
NO women beware: You're outnumbered 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
ew on the Notre Dame cam­
N 
pus? Female? No need to worry-sure, you're a little outnumbered by all the men on campus, but basically we're all equals. We go to the same classes and parties, eat at the same dining halls, and in four years, we'll have one big, collective "Nc tre Dame experience." Well, maybe not one big, collective experience. Maybe an almost-the­exact-same experience, or possibly a kind-of-the-s arne-with-a-few­exceptions experience. ·OK, let's be honest-women and men 
just do and see many things in different 
ways, right? ND is no exception. 
Granted, not all women are alike, but 
for the most part, your first few months 
at ND will be fairly similar to your 
roommate's, your neighbor's, and your 
R.A.'s. 

Here are a few things to think about: 
•The dining hall-The typical ND woman's first trip to the dining hall is nerve-wracking. There are just so many things to worry about. What if your new Vali-Dine doesn't work and they won't let you in? 
What if you can't find your friends 
and have to sit with that guy you met 
at the graffiti dance last night? You 
know-the one who is frantically wav­
ing to you to sit with him. You can't 
remember his name, and honestly, you 
really don't care ifyou ever do. 
And what exactly did that 
orientation committee person mean 
about going left-left or right-left, and 
where will you end up if you go the 
wrong way? 
But for the most part, a female new 
student will worry most about the 
possibility of doing something blatantly 
stupid and embarrassing (like dropping 
a completely full tray, or not being able 
to figure out how those darn milk 
dispensers work). 
Oh yes, and of course, she always has her eyes open for that perfect ND man. 
• The SYR-This is one of the biggest events of the semester for an ND woman. Planning takes months, well actually, more like a week or two, and it is imperative that things be ab­solutely perfect. 
Just as with the dining hall, the worry-factor is prevalent: you worry if you'll ever finish decorating your hallway. You worry that you'll never have enough time to take a shower, and even if you do, your hair probably won't turn out right. 
But the majority of worrying concerns the choice of an SYR date. The SYR date isn't simply a person-he is an ideal-the Prince Charming of ND. 
Almost from the moment a woman arrives on campus, she searches for that perfect date-the kind that will make her roommates jealous enough so that she can see them drool as their jaws drop to the floor. 
However there is always the possibility of the SYR date from hell, and unfortunately, this grave possibility is just enough to begin the worrying process all over again. 
• Football games-This is one of Notre Dame's greatest traditions, but for the first game or two, most new ND students feel slightly out of place cheering for a team that has only re­cently become "their" team. 
There is a definite tendency to feel 
like an idiot because you don't know 
any of the cheers, and when you can't 
get your arms and hands to do that 
Lou-thing ... well, it can be a little 
embarrassing. 
More often than not, you don't know 
who many of the football players are, 
and even if you did, your seats are so 
far away from the field that you 
couldn't see them anyway. 
Probably the worst realization comes 
around the second quarter when you 
realize that the rumor about students 
standing throughout the entire game 
was not some cruel and heartless joke. 
But it all becomes worth it in the end 
when you can join the rest of the 
stadium in singing the ND fight 
song-or, at least you can pretend to, 
because you haven't quite mastered all 
of the words yet. 
•Having a party in your room-This is the sign of true independence. Just you, your roommates, and 50 of your closest friends whom you just met last week. 
Many ND women plan ahead for this 
event and clean their rooms until they 
sparkle like never before (well, did 
they ever actually sparkle?). 
However, excitement turns to fury 
when your humble little abode is 
completely trashed by 11 p.m. 
That worrying sets in again when 
you realize that you don't know half 
the people in your room, parietals is in 
five minutes, your assistant rector lives 
next door to you, she's already warned 
you twice about the noise, and ... well, 
you get the idea. 
As a general rule, understand that it might not be possible for a female ND student to fully relax and enjoy her own party until at least her second semester. Then again, rules were made to be broken, right? 
•The library-Unfortunately, along with the status of being a college student comes frequent visits to this hallowed establishment. 
At first, you may discover a nice, "quiet" spot on the second floor. This will usually be a study carrell because 
a) all the tables will have already been taken by upperclassmen, and br you will try to convince yourself that you can get more done and be less distracted if there are three walls surrounding your face. 
Also, you won't know enough to take the elevator to the eighth or ninth floors at least until after October break. 
For that well-deserved study break, The Pit in the basement of the library is a popular choice. 
However, until you branch out from your second floor carrell and notice that everyone else is having a late night snack, you will continue to observe the "strict" rule that no food or drink is to be brought above the basement level. 
The worst comes when you prepare to leave, only to discover that the security guards check all bags that leave the library. 
Maybe now is the time to return that oh-so-coveted book "How to Find an SYR Date and Pour Milk at the Dining Hall at the Same Time," if only to save yourself a small degree of em­barrassment. 
Don't worry? Well ... maybe just a little bit. 


r· 
• -_.,. ···; ,.~ 11 ,~\ •., •.,~,.,-,_~:'. 

page 14 The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991 
Taiwan again the favorite in finals 49ers cruise past Seahawks 
The Obaerver accepts cla&&liedtl f11/8ry business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's olfioe,
Classifieds 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classified$ il 3p.m. All clasilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including aN spaces. 
of Little League World Series 
WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. (AP) ­The coach of the last U.S. team to win a Little League World Series offered some advice to this year's u.s. rmalist. 
"How do you beat any other team? You go out, set up defensively and you have to make all of the routine plays," said Bob Zullo, the coach of Trumbull, Conn., which beat Taiwan 5-2 in 1989. 
Zullo delivered the suggestion to the coaches of the San Ramon Valley Little League team from Danville, Calif., which will face Tai Chung, Taiwan, for the title today. 
The California manager believes that no matter what happens on defense, his team might be able to match Taiwan's power on offense. 
Taiwan is batting .464 in the series, with six home runs in two games. The West champions are hitting .396, with five home runs. Both teams had four home runs in Thursday's semifinals. 
Connors relishes unseeded status as U.S. Open commences 
NEW YORK (AP)-Five times a U.S. Open champion, always a threat, Jimmy Connors is delighting in his new status as unseeded outsider in the middle of a dangerous draw. 
''I've waited 20 years to be a dangerous floater," said Connors, who will bring his grind-it-out style back to the Open next week against Patrick McEnroe, younger brother of the fellow Connors beat in the 1982 Wimbledon fmal. 
Connors, who turns 39 on Sept. 2, reached the quarters of a tuneup tournament in Commack, N.Y., on Thursday and says he's ready to play in the Open again after missing it last year for the first time in two decades. 
"I take tournaments seriously," Connors said. "I play every match like it's the fmal at Wimbledon." 
He knows that his reputation precedes him against many younger players, giving him an edge at the start. But he also knows that advantage doesn't last long. 
"You can only bluff to a certain extent," he said...Mter that, your tennis has to take over." 
McEnroe, 25, knows that his brother John lost a five-setter to Connors in the 1982 Wimbledon final. But Patrick McEnroe is not lacking in confidence after reaching the semifinals of the Australian Open this year. 
They're both stuck, though, in a quarter of the draw that includes Andre Agassi, 1990 champion Pete Sampras and 1989 champ Boris Becker. 
Agassi, runnerup last year, will have to be very lucky or very good just to get into the final after drawing the most dangerous path of all the men's seeds in the $7.25 million tournament that starts Monday. 
If Agassi, the No. 8 seed, survives a first-round match against Aaron Krickstein, the next obstacle is the winner of the Tim Mayotte-Jaime Yzaga match. Two matches later looms a possible match against the winner of the Connors-McEnroe duel, or perhaps No. 10 seed Karel Novacek. 
"We're a pretty good hitting team, but we have a tendency to have peaks and valleys," manager Troy Ward said. "(Thursday) was the best hitting we've had in awhile. If we play as well as we are capable of playing, I think we can have a pretty good showing." 
Only two American teams have been able to beat Taiwan in a Little League World Series -Kirkland, Wash., in 1982 and Trumbull in 1989. In 18 tournament appear-ances since 1969, Taiwan has lost only one other game, 3-2 to Nicaragua in the first round of the 1970 tournament. 
Taiwan's dominance over American teams shows in the scores 9-0 over Shippensburg, Pa., last year, 10­0 over Pearl City, Hawaii, in 1988 and 21-1 over Irvine, Calif., in 1987. Six of Taiwan's championships have come on shutouts. 
Kirkland won the 1982 title 6­0. The key to stopping Taiwan is 
If Agassi is still going, he could meet Becker in the quarters, No. 6 Sampras in the semis, and whoever survives from the Stefan Edberg-Ivan Lend] side of the draw in the final. 
Top-seeded Boris Becker has a relatively easy opening match against Martin Jaite of Argentina, but the second­seeded Edberg will find himself in a serving battle with powerful Bryan Shelton of Huntsville, Ala. 
Michael Stich, the Wimbledon champion and No. 3 seed, plays another big server with upset potential in Jacco Eltingh of the Netherlands. 
No. 2 Monica Seles meets Nicole Arendt of Princeton, N.J.; No. 3 Gabriela Sabatini plays Nicole Provis of Australia; No. 4 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario plays Katia Piccolini of Italy; No. 5 Mary Joe Fernandez plays Larisa Savchenko of the Soviet Union; No. 6 Martina Navratilova plays Patricia Tarabini of Argentina; and No. 7 Jennifer Capriati plays a qualifier. 
stopping the team early. The team scored 11 runs in the first inning against Canada in the semifinals and scored twice in the first against the Dominican Republic en route to a 3-2 victory. 
"If you can hold Taiwan down, if you can hold them and put some runs on the board first, you get them to play your game rather than them having you play theirs, .. Zullo said. "This is a sound West team. They've got the bats that can do some damage." 
Kevin Graham will pitch for California. He had a three-hitter against Dunedin, Fla., in the quarterfinals on Wed-nesday, walking just two. He also has homered in each of San Ramon Valley's two games. 
Taiwan will go with Pan Chih­Chiang, who got the vic~ory against the Dominican Republic. He struck out 13 and walked five. 
(AP)-Joe Montana may not be ready for the start of the regular season. The San Francisco 49ers definitely are. 
Montana, sidelined by tendinitis in his right elbow, watched from the sidelines for the third straight game as Steve Young led the 49ers to a 28-16 victory over the Seahawks on Friday night, completing a perfect preseason. 
Young led San Francisco to touchdowns on its first three possessions at the Kingdome for a 21-3 lead as the 49ers (5-0) finished their first unbeaten exhibition schedule since going 7-0in 1954. 
The 49ers don't know whether Montana will be ready for the season-opener against the New York Giants on Sept 2. 
Raiders 17, Chargers 7 
Jay Schroeder threw touchdown passes on consecutive drives and the Raiders bottled up the Chargers in the first half to win in San Diego. 
Schroeder hadn't thrown a TD pass in Los Angeles' previous four exhibition games. But he threw a 10-yarder to Marcus Allen on the Raiders' second nossP.ssion and a 19-yarder to 
Second seed 

Monica Seles is seeded second behind Steffi Graf at next week's 
U.S. Open. Seles' first-round opponent will be Nicole Arendt of Princeton, New Jersey. 
Ethan Horton, giving the Raiders a 14-0 lead before San Diego had its second first down. 
Cowboys 20, Falcons 17 

Ken Willis kicked a 38-yard field goal 2:35 into overtime as the Cowboys won at home after blowing a17-0 lead in the third quarter. 
Odie Harris recovered Steve Broussard's fumble on the Atlanta 22 after Dallas had failed to move on the first possession of overtime. Dallas ran two plays to position Willis for the game-winner. 
VIkings 31, Browns 7 

The Vikings (2-2) made it look easy as Wade Wilson completed 14 of 16 passes for 139 yards and two touchdowns before the visiting Browns had either a completion or a first down. 
By the time Wilson left the game· 4:54 into the second quarter, Minnesota led 14-0 on the scoreboard, 170-11 in total yards, 12-0 in first downs and 
16:19 to 3:35 in possession time. 
The Browns (2-2) rested many of their offensive regulars, including quarterback Bernie Kosar. His replacements were sacked six timPc: 
AP Photo 

NICE FURNISHED ROOMS,WANTED GOOD AREA, CLOSE TO NO.
I I 
277-3097. 
Post advertising materials on campus. Write: College Distributors, 
4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, 33 Pebblewood Tr., Naperville, IL 
washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 
60563. 
N. St. Peter. 233-9947. 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR HOUSE SOUTH OF TOWN. 10 MINS. TO CAMPUS. I'M GONE 6 MONTHS IN YEAR. CALL RICK 
291·8155 EVE.; DAY 259-2302, LV. NAME & NUMBER ONLY. 
WELCOME TO WALSH • FRESHMAN!II 

____TI_CK_E_T_s__.ll PERSONAL 
Good luck this yearl Don't forget to attend the Walsh I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL picnic tonight for all Walshiites and HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 
I an-the Lizard King and I can do their families!Ill anything. 
FOR RENT 

2 BEDROOM ON NO AVE.FURNISHED.272-6306 
THE PARTY starts here. Excellent 5 bedroom home. Semi-furnished. Beach V·ball court, private parking lot. Next ID other student houses. 234-3831 or 288-5653. Safe area. 
3 BEDROOM HOME 913LAWRENCE $500 DEPOSIT, $555 MONTH 232-3616 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153. 
NEAR NO -Ouaint furnished apts. 1 bedrm $260, 755 South Bend Ave. 2 bedrm $360, 607 E. Corby. dep. rer. 1-800·582-9320 FUTONS ETC. Best Pricesl From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call 
1-800-484-1060 
When You Hear a Tone, Dial 1576 WE SHIP A Vosidus Production 
ROOM FOR RENT· LARGE HOME 
2.5 BLKS FROM NO, $290 MO. UTIL.INCL. 234-0873. 
FOR SALE 
PONTIAC PHOENIX LJ, '80, 1181<, WELL-MAINTAINED, $950. 239­60721684·2994. 
JAGUAR XJS, '79, 56K, REDIBLACK, AUTO, AIC, LOVINGLY MAINTAINED, $9,000. 
239-60721684-2994. 
.. ~~···
< • 

NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­612-227·75n. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
FOR SALE. 
CALL 271-1371. fghjfghjfghj 
WELCOME BACK EVERYONE! 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
fhjfgjfghjfghj 
Mingle, Mingle, Mingle. 
LOVE, JEANNE 
Rich, HI! Hope you're having funIll It's 2:30am and Rene better get a move on what to fill the rest of this page with or we'll be here til 4am and that will not make me happy. Later-love, me 
Buxom, bunny, and bubbles, this year will rock-let's rage! love me 
Go Dawgs-(and jelly donuts) 


Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer 
page 15 

SCOREBOARD 
BASEBALL STANDINGS BASEBALL LEADERS 
All Time1 EDT AMERICAN LEAGUEAMERICAN LEAGUE G AB R H Pet.
E11t Dlvleion 
Palmeiro Tax 120 488 94 165 .338
w L Pet GB 

Franco Tax 109 437 82 147 .336
Toronto 67 56 .545 
Boggs Bsn 1t 1 420 75 141 .336
Detroit 66 57 .537 1 . 
Puckett Min 120 486 73 161 .331
Boston 62 59 .512 4 
Mol~or Mil 117 499 97 165 .331
Milwaukee 57 64 .471 9 Griffey Jr Sea 117 412 59 136 .330
New York 55 65 .458 10 1/2 CRipken B• 122 488 80 160 .328
Baltimore 51 71 .418 15 1/2 Thomas Chi 122 441 85 144 .327
Cleveland 39 82 .322 27 
Tartabuli KC 100 380 65 123 .324
Weat Dlvllion 
Greenwell Bsn 117 441 59 139 .315
w L Pet GB RUNS-Molitor, Milwaukee, 97; Palmeiro,Minnesota 74 50 .597 

Texas, 94; Canseco, Oakland, 89; Sierra, Texas,Oakland 68 55 .553 51/2 86; Thomas, Chicago, 85; White, Toronto, 84;Chicago 67 55 .549 6 Franco, Texas, 82.
Texas 63 58 .521 91/2 RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 108; Thomas, Chicago,Seattle 64 59 .520 91/2 96; Canseco, Oakland, 92; Carter, Toronto, 88;
Kansas City 62 59 .512 10 1/2 
JuGonzalez, Texas, 87; Sierra, Texas, 87; Joyner,California 58 63 .479 14 1/2 
Calilornia, 85. HITS-Palmeiro, Texas, 165; Molitor,
NATIONAL LEAGUE Milwaukee, 165; Puckett, Minnesota, 161;Elet Dlvlaion CRipken, Baltimore, 160; Sierra, Texas, 153;w L Pet GB Franco, Texas, 147; Thomas, Chicago, 144.
Pittsburgh 71 49 .592 
HOME RUNS-Canseco, Oakland, 35; Fielder,
St. Louis 65 55 .542 6 
Detroit, 35; Carter, Toronto, 28; Thomas, Chicago, Chicago 62 59 .512 91/2 26; CDavie-, Minnesota, 26; CRipken, Bahimore, 26;
New York 59 62 .488 12 1/2 
Tartabull, Kansas City, 25; Tettleton, Detroit, 25.
Philadelphia 58 63 .479 13 1/2 
STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 44;Montreal 48 72 .400 23 Raines, Chicago, 42; RAiomar, Toronto, 38;Weet Dlvlaion Polonia, California, 37; Cuyler, Detrott, 31; Whtte,w L Pet GB Toronto, 30; Franco, Texas, 24.
Los Angeles 68 53 .562 
PITCHING (11 Daclalona)-Henneman,
Atlanta 67 54 .554 1 
Detroit, 9-2, .818, 2.72; Erickson, Minnesota, 16-5,Cincinnati 59 62 .488 9 
.762, 2.96; Klink, Oakland, 9-3, .750, 3.77;
San FranciSCO 59 62 .488 9 
Gullickson, Detroit, 16-6, .727, 4.12; Stottlemyre,
San Diego 58 64 .475 10 1/2 
Toronto, 12-5, .706, 3.33; Finley, Californta, 15-7,Houston 51 70 .421 17 
.682, 3.90; Langston, Cal~ornia, 15-7, .682, 3.20. SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 36; Aguilera,
AMERICAN LEAGUE Minnesota, 32; Reardon, Boston, 31; Harvey,Fridey'a G1me1 California, 29; Henke, Toronto, 29; Thigpen,Lete G1me1 Not Included Chicago, 27; Olson, Baltimore, 26.
Ba~tmore 5, Minnesota 4 Cleveland 4, Chicago 3 
NATIONAL LEAGUEToronto 6, New York 5 G AB R H Pet.
Texas 6, Kansas City 1 
I
TGwynn SO 121 479 65 159 .332
Detroit 8, Seattle 6 
I 
Pendleton All 113 415 74 132 .318
Boston at Cal~ornia, (n) Jose StL 431 136 I
115 54 .316

Milwaukee at Oakland, (n) 
Moms Cin 101 354 49 111 .314
Saturday's Games 
WCiark SF 113 434 64 136 .313 
'l
Seattle (Johnson 12-8) at Detroit (Tanana 10-8) 
Butler LA 120 464 86 145 .312
New York (Johnson 4·7) at Toronto (Wells 12-8) 
Bonilla Pit 117 437 76 136 .311
Chtcago (McDowell 14-7) at Cleveland (Nagy 6-.,
Nixon Ad 104 342 70 104 .304
11) McGee SF 91 340 48 103 .303
Milwaukee (Wegman 8-6} at Oakland (Siusarski 
Finley Hou 120 444 60 133 .300
3-5) I 
RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 86; Sandberg,
Minnesota (Edens 0-0) at Baltimore (Milacki 7-7} I
Chicago, 81; Johnson, N-York, 77; Gant, Atlanta,Texas (Ryan 8-5) at Kansas City (Boddicker 10­76; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 76; Pendleton, Atlanta, 74;

8} 
OSmith, St. Louis, 74. 
1
Boston (Morton 3-2) at California (McCasktll 9­RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, 96; Bonds,
16} 
Pittsburgh, 90; Johnson, New York, 81; McGriff, San Diego, 79; Dawson, Chicago, 79; Gant, t
NATIONAL LEAGUE Atlanta, 78; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 78.
Friday'• Gamee HITS-TGwynn, San Diego, 159; Butler, LosChicago 5, San Diego 4 Angeles, 145; Grace, Chicago, 136; Jose, St.
Pittsburgh 8, San Francisco o Louis, 136; WCiark, San Francisco, 136; Bonilla,Atlanta 4, Phtladelphia 2 Pittsburgh, 136; Sandberg, Chicago, 134.
Cincinnati 6, New York 1 HOME RUNS-Gant, Atlanta, 27; Johnson,Houston 9, Montreal 2 New York, 26; McGriff, San Diego, 25; MaWiHiams,St. Louis 2, Los Angeles 1 San Francisco, 24; WCiark, San Francisco, 24;Saturday's Games KvMitchell, San Francisco, 24; O'Neill, Cincinnati, Cincinnati (Rtjo 9-4} a1 New York (Whitehurst 5­
23.
8), 
STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 64;
San Diego (Benes 8-10) at Chicago (Maddux Grissom, Montreal, 54; DeShields, Montreal, 45;
10-7) 
Bonds, Pittsburgh, 38; Coleman, N-York, 37;San Francisco (Wilson 8-9} at Pittsburgh (Walk Butler, Los Angeles, 34; Lankford, St. Louis, 29;
7-2) 
OSmith, St. Louis, 29.
Philadelphia (Cox 4-5) at Atlanta (Smoltz 9-13} PITCHING (11 Deelalona)-Carpenter, St.
Montreal (Barnes 3-4} at Houston (Portugal 9-5} 
Louis, 9-3, .750, 4.28; Downs, San Francisco, 10-4,
Los Angeles (Morgan 10-7) at St. Louis (Olivares 
.714, 3.44; Hurst, San Diego, 14-6, .700, 3.32;
6-4) 
DeJesus, Philadelphia, 9-4, .692, 3.40; Rijo, Cincinnati, 9-4, .692, 2.66; Tomfin, Pittsburgh, 8-4,BASEBALL LINESCORES .667, 2.56; Glavine, Atlanta, 16-8, .667, 2.19; 
M iWilliams, Philadelphia, 8-4, .667, 2. 12. AMERICAN LEAGUE SAVES-LeSmith, St. Louis, 34; Dibble, Chicago 000 001 002-3 12 0 Cincinnati, 24; MiWilliams, Philadelphia, 23; Cleveland 012 1 00 OOx-4 1 0 Franco, New York. 22; Rtghetti, San Francisco, 20; 
Lefferts, San Diego, 18; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17.
Hibbard, Patterson (4) and Fisk, Karkovice (8); Blair, Hillegas (9) and Skinner. W-Biair, 1·1. L-Hibbard, 8-10. Sv-Hillegas (6). 
Minnesota 0 0 3 0 1 0 000--4 1 0 0 Baltimore 010 300 001-5 9 0 
1991 NOTRE DAME Jays rally to down Yankees 6-5
Anderson, Willis (5), Leach (9) and Ortiz; McDonald, Olson (9) and Holies. W-Oison, 3­

TORONTO (AP) -Roberto Alomar blooped a two-run 
4. L-WIIIis, 7-3. HA-Baltlmore, Evans (5). 
single in the ninth inning, rallying the slumping Blue Jays past the Yankees. 
New York 110 300 000-5 1 5 Toronto 110 010 012-6 9 0 
Toronto, which had lost 10 of its last 14, began the day 
Taylor, Habyan (7), Cadaret (8), Farr (9) 
leading the AL East by one game over Detroit. 
and Nokes; Candiottl, MacDonald (7), Ward 
The Blue Jays loaded the bases with no outs in the ninth 
(8) and Borders. W-Ward, 6-5. L-Farr, 3-4. 
against Steve Farr (3-4) when Mookie Wilson was hit by a
HR&--New York, Maas (18). Toronto, White (11 ). 
pitch, shortstop Randy Velarde made an error and Manuel Lee was hit by a pitch. After Devon White struck 
Texas 300 000 030-6 8 0 
out swinging at a 3-2 pitch, Alomar hit a looper into
Kansas City 000 000 010-1 5 3 
short center field for the win.
Bohanon and Rodriguez; Appier, Magnante 
Duane Ward (6-5) pitched 1 2-3 innings for the victory. 
(9) and Spehr, Mayne (9). W-Bohanon, 3-0. 
L-Appter, 10-9. 
Orioles 5, Twins 4 
Seattle 000 030 012-6 15 1 
BALTIMORE -David Segui singled home the winning
Detroit 000 170 OOx-6 9 0 Holman, Jones (5), Swan (5), Jackson (B) 
run with two outs in the ninth inning as the Orioles cooled 
and Cochrane; Gullickson, Gibson (7), 
off the streaking Twins. 
Gleaton (8), Kaiser (9) and Tettleton. W­
Dwight Evans hit a three-run homer for the Orioles,
Gulllckson, 16-6. L-Holman, 10-13. Sv­
who have won three straight. Minnesota had won six of
Kalser (1 ). HAs-seattle, O'Brien (11 ). Detroit, Tettleton (25). 
seven and eight of 11. 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Tigers 8, Mariners 6 
San Francisco 000 000 000-0 7 0 
DETROIT -Mickey Tettleton's 25th homer started a 
Pittsburgh 014 030 OOX-6 14 0 
seven-run fifth inning, leading Bill Gullickson and the
Burkett, Hickerson (3), Beck (7) and Manwaring; Drabek and LaValliere. W­
Tigers over the Mariners. 
Drabek, 13-11. L-Burkett, 9-8. 
Gullickson (16-6) tied Minnesota's Scott Erickson for the most victories in the majors. He allowed three runs on 
Philadelphia 010 000 001-2 6 0 
seven hits in six innings and struck out a season-high
Atlanta o1o 003 OOx-4 1 3 2 Mulholland, Hartley (6) and Daulton; 
seven. 

Glavine, Stanton (7), Wohlers (9) and Olson. W-Giavlne, 16-8. L-Mulholland, 12-11. Sv­
Cardinals 2, Dodgers 1
Wohlers (2). HAs-Atlanta, Justice (12). Hunter (9). 
ST. LOUIS -Jose Oquendo's eighth-inning sacrifice fly lifted St. Louis over Los Angeles.
Cincinnati 112 11 0 ()()()-6 16 
Milt Thompson led ofT the eighth with a double against
New York 000 01 o ooo-1 9 
Tim Crews (2-3) and went to third on a groundout before 
Browning, Power (8), Dibble (9) and Oliver; Viola, Innis (4), Simons (6), Pena 
scoring on Oquendo's drive to left off left-bander John 
(8), Franco (9) and Cerone. W-Browning, 12· 
Candelaria. 

B. L-Viola, 12·11. HAs-Cincinnati, Duncan (4), O'Neill (23). 
The ObservertBrentJan Regan Braves 4, Phlllles 2 Montreal 000 001-2 ATLANTA -Dave Justice and Brian Hunter hit
001 6 Houston 000 005 22x__.g 11 consecutive home runs in the sixth inning and Tom O..Martlnez, Sampen (7), Rojas (8) and Glavlne became the National League's first 16-gameReyes; Bowen, Schilling (9) and Biggio. W­
winner, leading the Braves past the Phillies 4-2 Friday
Bowen, 3-2. L-De.Martlnez. 12-B. HR­Houaton, BagweH (12). --• · · · night. 






page 16 The Observer Saturday. August 24. 1991 

, 
I 
f 
I I 
I I 
Jordan still undecided about '92 
Bird's lawyer Bob Woolf said
NEW YORK (AP) -The 
Thursday. "It would never be
Dream Team could give night­
forgotten."
mares to the rest of the bas­
Reports already have been
ketball world at next year's 
published that the U.S. team
Olympics. 
will include Jordan, Bird,
If a wavering Michael Jordan 
Johnson, Barkley, Malone, John 
decides to play and Larry Bird 
Stockton, Scottie Pippen, Chris
believes his surgically repaired 
Mullin and David Robinson. 
back can hold up to an extra 
But C.M. Newton, chairman
two months of pounding, the 
of the 13-man selection com­
1992 U.S. Olympic team will be 
mittee, said no formal invita­
a memorable one. 
tions would be issued until next 
Magic Johnson, Charles 
month. For now, Newton said.
Barkley and Karl Malone ­
the committee is working from
each an all-NBA player this 
a pool of top players, informing 
year-haven't wavered in their 
them they are under considera­
desire to play since 1989 when 
tion and determining the degree 
the door opened for Olympic 
of each player's interest. 
participation by NBA players. 
Newton indicated a player
That they would receive an offi­
will not be formally invited un­
cial invitation would appear to 
less he informs the committee
be a foregone conclusion. 
he will play on the Olympic
But it's Jordan, Bird and 
team.
Johnson who would capture the 
"Our desire is
imagination of basketball his­no different 
than ever before," Newton said, 
tory buffs. 
"and that's to put together the 
"It would be so exciting hav­
best possible team that can be
ing a team with those three," 
New baseball stadium to be built 
Observer Staff Report 
Franklin E. Eck, a member of the Notre Dame Class of 1944, along with Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., have made a $1 million gift to the university for construction of a new baseball stadium. 
The new facility will be named Frank E. Eck Stadium and will feature a lighted grass playing field and a permanent capacity of 1,500 spectators, with the capability of an additional 1,500 temporary seats. It will replace Jake Kline Field, the current on-campus site of Notre Dame baseball games. 
''I'm ecstatic about the new stadium," Irish coach Pat Mur-
Ihe Obsa:ver 
is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
News Writers 
To apply, or for further information, 
contact: Monica Yant at 239-5303 
************************************* 
..  
..  
..  UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
....!  International Study Programs  

.. 
.. : lt­
.. 
.. WHEN: 
• 
WHERE: 

• 
TIME:


. 
....
.. . 
·~mmedJately followmg the general infonnation session. mdividual sess1ons for each pmoram will be held in 1~ 
··ollowmg rooms:  e­ 
.PROGRAM.  COORDINATOR  ~  
'"'"-Angers. FranceJIIIf" ·  Dr. Louis MacK-~·e~·~  Gate 10, Gym  
!lnnsbruclc, Austria  Dr. Alex Hahn  C!4  
.Jerusalem  Sr. Mary Aqum O'Neill  CI05  
!:Maynooth, Ireland;csaint Mary's College)  Ms. Roxann Brown  Monogram Room B  
lit-Me:ouco City, Mex1co  Dr. OIJ\·era-W1.II1am•,  Monogram Room C  
!Nagoya. Japan  Fr. George Mmamik.i, SJ.  Pool, Rolfs  
..  Aquatic Center  
lt-Romc.ltaly*Samt Mary's College)  Dr. Peter Checca  Gate 8, Gym  
:Toledo. Spain  Dr. Carlos Jerez-Farran  Arena. Section 5  

.. 
~ Former student participants will also be on hand to d1scuss the1r .or expenences, offer comments and answer questions. 
.. 
' I -". .. '"' ' .•, •
.~ . .. 
*************************************.. 
INVITF.SYOUTOATIEND A GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION 
SATURDAY,AUGUST24.1991 JACC ARENA, Sections 4/516 (Purple and Orange) 4:00P.M. 
phy said. "It's something I've dreamed about since I got the job here. It's definitely some­thing that's badly needed for a team that has attracted the type of opposition it's been fac­ing." 
Eck previously has endowed a collection in chemical engineering at the Hesburgh Library and underwrote construction of the Eck Tennis Pavilion, the indoor tennis facility on the east edge of campus. 
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. is a Columbus, Ohio-based producer of corrugated plastic drainage pipe for agricultural, commercial and construction purposes. 
.. 
.. 
.... ..
! 
.. 
.. .. : .. 
lt­lt­
..lt­
..
..
.. 
"'­
.. ; lt­
! "'­~ 
lt­lt­
: 
! "'­~ 
lt­lt­
.. 
: 
.. 
: 
.. .. 


Despite reports that Jordan .has agreed to play in Spain, his management group insists-a decision hasn't been made. 
"I don't think he'll be shamed 
in to playing," ProServ 
spokesman Ted Ewanciw said 
in proclaiming Jordan is still 
undecided. "His status is un­
changed because of time con­
straints, the fact he played in 
the Olympics in 1984 and his 
desire not to take a spot from a 
deserving player who never was 
in the Olympics." 

"I tell him that we can do 
something that could be truly 
great," Johnson said of his 
conversations with Jordan. 
"Everybody's waiting to see the 
USA team with NBA players. 
This will be my last chance, so 
if I have to take a pay cut and 
give it to him, (I will). I'm going 
to make him play one way or 
the other. Because that might 
be my first and only chance to 
really get a chance to play with 
him in a competitive nature." 
Johnson said he so far has 
failed to change Jordan's mind, 
but he thinks the Bulls' star 
eventually will decide to play. 
A sense of history might also 
sway Bird, according to Woolf, 
who believes Bird is now lean­
ing toward playing after initial AP Photo 
reluctance. U.S. C?lympic basket~all fans wa~ to find out whether Chicago Bulls' 
star M1chael Jordan w1ll demonstrate his aerial acrobatics in Barcelona. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~w~~~ 
FRESHMAN WELCOME WEEK 
MONDAYJl AUGUST 26 3PM-8PM ""NOTRE DAME NIGHT AT UNIVERSITY PARK MALL"" 
Catch e 67 Transpo Bus for only $.30 et the NO Li brery et one of the 
following times and enjoy en evening of coupons and discounts at the Mall. 
For More Information Call 239· 7308. 
~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
I 
i 

More people 
have survived cancer than 
now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
~AMERICAN T~­
I ...... 

Bus leaves Returns NO Librery: from Mall: 3:01 p.m. 3:17p.m. 3:31 p.m. 3:47p.m. 4:01 p.m. 4:17p.m. 4:31 p.m. 4:47p.m. 5:01 p.m. 5:17p.m. 5:31 p.m. 5:47p.m. 6:01 p.m. 6:17p.m. 6:31 p.m. 6:47p.m. 7:40p.m. 7:53p.m. 
8:43p.m. 
9:33p.m. 

SAVE ON YOUR FURNITURE NEEDS FOR DORM OR APARTMENT SOFAS*LOVE SEATS*CHA I R_S*DESKS*SHEL VES 

_.---------------------~-----------------~ -~----­_Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer 
page 17 


I 
1­

STEPAN CENTER SUNDA_Y, AUGUST 25 12:00 P.M. -6:00 1).M. l\10NDAY, AUGUS~l~ 26 10:00 A.M.-6:00P.M. 
I 

Plastic Storage Crates Refrigerator Retttals 
Plants Overstuffed Pillows 
Quality Furniture Posters 
Carpets Pietures 
Banking lttfortna tiota Newspaper Subscriptions 
.. 

.. 
Why move your stuff, when you can buy it here!!! 
I 

Sponsored by the Student Union Board 
' 

-a : :" ; ..__ -·~ ., -~-~·--------~-~ ;:,_
.r.....":. :_---' & 
' 

The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991
page 18 
Belles soccer looks to Jenkins' injury checks Irish optimism 
build upon '90 season 
By JENNIFER MARTEN players, including Kelly Cook, sports Writer Greer Gilliland, Megen Dalaso, Kristin Crowley and Stacey
As the Saint Mary's soccer Winget. team begins its second season Cook, a senior from Ohio, was in NCM play, Belles coach Tom selected as the Most Valuable Van Meter is looking to this Player for the third consecutive 
year's team to build on last year for her defensive play.year's successes. Gilliland was the leading scorer last season and is the penalty'Td like to repeat the suc­kick specialist. 
cesses we've built the last cou­ple of years. Our obvious goal is Dalaso, a sophomore from a winning season, but ideally, Colorado, is a second-year
we'd like an NCAA post-season starter and was the second bid," said Van Meter. highest scorer on the team in 1990. Crowley, a junior from Last year, the team was Wisconsin, is one of the leading ranked sixth in the Great Lakes defensive players and is ex­region and had its strongest pected to resume playing after 
record (13-3-3) in the last six knee surgery. Winget is also a years. The Belles defeated na­solid player with strong ball tionally ranked Division III handling skills. teams such as Kalamazoo, Saint 
( Mary's-Winona and Wooster "The upperclassmen have College, as well as Division I paid their dues and they de­Marquette. serve to reap the rewards," said 
Leading the team are several Van Meter. 
SPORlS SHORTS 
•Senior David Dllucla won two medals in the tennis com­petition at the Pan American Games recently completed in Havana, Cuba. 
DiLucia earned the silver medal in men's singles, defeating a Cuban in the semifmals in three sets before falling to Mexico's Luis Herrera 6-3, 6-1. 
He combined with Pam Shriver to win the gold medal in mixed doubles, overcoming the Brazilian tandem of Claudia Chabalgoitu and N. Kyriakos 6-3, 4-6, 6-0 in the fmals. 
Former Notre Dame fencer Molly Sullivan won her second Pan Am gold medal as a member of the winning U.S. women's team. Sullivan was also part of the 1987 team that won the gold at Indianapolis. 
•This week, DiLucia is competing in the qualifier for the main draw of the U.S. Open. He is one of 85 players vying for eight spots into the last of the Grand Slam tournaments which will open next week in Flushing Meadows, New York. DiLucia won his opening round match Thursday night. 
~unlor Tanya Williams qualified for the u.s. Olympic trials in two events at the recently completed U.S. Senior National Swimming Championships held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
The All-American fmished third in the 400 individual medley in a time of 4:56.31 and fourth in the 100 backstroke in 1:03.96 to qualify for the trials to be held next summer. 
With her performance at the Senior Nationals, Williams has moved into the top 10 among U.S. backstrokers and is expected to be among the top 25 in the world when the upcoming rankings are released. 
•Freshman Mike Iorio, one of three Irish high school All­American lacrosse recruits, has been named to the U.S. Under­19 National Team. The Chester, New Jersey native will compete at the World Games next summer against teams from Australia, England, Canada, the lriquois Nations, and possibly Japan. 
"This is a great honor for a high schooler," Notre Dame lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan said. '"It means that for his age group, he is one of the top five defensemen in the country. We're excited for him, and we're also excited to have him coming here." 
•Frank Jacobs has been tearing up the New York-Penn League since signing with the New York Mets. 
A seventh-round pick in the June draft, Jacobs reported to Pittsfield, Massachusetts on June 10th. Since then, he is leading the Class A team in home runs and RBI's. In 61 games, Jacobs is hitting .239 with nine homers and 43 RBI's, garnering 57 hits in 238 at-bats and scoring 43 runs. 
Macleod 
continued from page 24 
pen overnight; it will be a slow process." MacLeod tells Irish fans to 
expect a team that will play as a team, and a team that fans can be proud of. 
"I never say 'x' number of wins, but we are going to work hard, have fun and learn to win," MacLeod said. "I would like everyone to come out and support the team. It would be great to see SRO (standing room only) crowds and have the student body continue to make this the hardest arena for opponents to play." 
By RENE FERRAN team's goals for the 1991 sea­start playing some games and Associate Sports Editor son to begin September 7th at seeing how we stack up against home against Mercyhurst. other teams." 
Is three years enough time to "We may be a year or two With only two seniors lost build a playoff caliber pro­away, but it's definitely some­from last year's MCC champi­gram? thing we're keeping in the back ons, a strong nucleus returns to 
Notre Dame women's soccer of our minds," Petrucelli said. the program. The top five goal coach Chris Petrucelli hopes so. "We have a very good group of scorers from last season are 
Building on last season's 16-returning players and a tal­back, including sophomores 3-1 performance and landing ented group of freshmen, and I Alison Lester (15 goals) and an NCAA berth are among the think we're looking forward to Stephanie Porter (10) and se­nior Susie Zilvitis (10). Junior goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga 
(0.79 goals against average, 11 shutouts) also returns. 
An injury to junior defender Shannon Jenkins, however, 

· threatens to dampen Petru­celli's optimism. Jenkins, a two­year starter in the Irish back­field, anchors the defense, and her probable replacement, freshman Jill Matesic, while showing promise in the fall, will not fill the void completely. 
"Shannon's had a knee prob­lem since April," Petrucelli said. "We were hoping she'd be back and ready to go by now, but she's still struggling with it. She's defmitely somebody we'll miss." 
In an attempt to bolster its NCAA chances, gone from the Notre Dame schedule are the likes of St. Joseph's, Indiana­South Bend, and Calvin College. In their place, the Irish travel to Vanderbilt, William & Mary, and Providence. 
'"I think we're very positive heading into the season," Petrucelli said. 


TV and VCR RENTALS 
2 Semesters 
19" TV Rentals  $99.95  
13" TV Rentals  $69.95  
VCR  Rentals  $99.95  

FREE FAST DELIVERY 272-5959 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 
...MICROWAVES, REFRIGERATORS, STEREOS... 
-----------------------.------------------~-----------------------------------------------------~-------­
Saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer page 19 
New volleyball coach exudes confidence 
By RENE FERRAN At the crucial position of set­Associate Sports Editor 
ter, however, Brown has found a winner for the starting job: sophomore Janelle Karlan. 
Only three years ago, the Notre Dame volleyball team "Janelle had done a great job,posted a 19-12 record and both in the spring and this fall," made its first-ever NCAA ap­she said. "Our backup setters pearance. Mter two consecutive are doing well, but they're a losing seasons and the tumul­few steps behind Janelle." tuous resignation of Art Two freshman join the Irish 
Lambert, new head coach this year, outside hitters Nicole Debbie Brown has the team Coates from Princeton, Illinois pointed in that direction once Debbie Brown and Peters, a native of Solana again. nament, and even though it's Beach, California. Brown has 
..She has such a good atti­early, from what I've seen so been pleased so far with their tude," said freshman Christy far, I believe it's a realistic progress. · Peters. "When she says some­goal." "They've both had a good pre­thing to one of us, we trust in Notre Dame's inexperience season," she said. "I believe what she's telling us." plagued it throughout the 1990 they'll see a lot of court time 
Brown took over the program season, but with the team losing this season." in December after resigning as only three members from that Both freshman are acclimat­an assistant coach with the U.S. 9-27 squad, Brown has ing to the college game with national squad. Before that, she veterans at every position to ease-but not without a little coached for six years at Arizona choose from. help.State, taking the Wildcats to the Four seniors, including two NCAAs in five of those seasons, three-year monogram winners "The girls on the team have and she anticipates similar in outside hitter Christine made it really easy to make the results with the Irish. Choquette and all-purpose transition," said Coates. "I like 
performer Katie Kavanaugh, the atmosphere here, the close­
"I definitely believe that we provide a nucleus around which ness of the entire community." have the capability to make the to build. NCAAs," Brown said. "We "I am pleased with the depth The transition period is al­talked with the team about that we have," she said. "It's going most over, however. Notre being a goal that we would like to be hard to pick a starting Dame's season opener is next to strive for, to put ourselves lineup because all the players Saturday at 7:30 p.m. versus into position to make the tour-are so equal in their abilities." Purdue at the Joyce ACC. 
DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS 
RENTAL SIZES: (starting at) 
$45
2.5 CUBIC FEET 
for the school year
3.5 
CUBIC FEET 

4.5 
CUBIC FEET 


6.5 CUBIC FEET 

PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. (corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
.. 
STARTS 
FRIDAY 
AUG.30 
LOOK 
FOR 
YOUR 
FILM 
CALEN 
IN THE MAIL OR PICK ONE UP AT THE SNITE 

The Observer/John Rock The effort demonstrated by the Irish volleyball team during fall drills (as exemplified above) has pleased head coach Debbie Brown. 
Aug. 30 Alumnae Game 7:30 p.m 
31 Purdue 7:30 p.m. Sept. 6-7@ Big Four Classic, Louisville, Kentucky 6 vs. Kentucky 6:00 p.m. 7@ Louisville 6:00p.m. 13-14@ SW Missouri State Invitational, Springfield, Missouri 
(Ohio State, SW Missouri State, Eastern Michigan) 
22 Boston College 2:00 p.m. 
24 Illinois State 7:30 p.m. 

27-28@ Miami (Ohio) Invitational, Oxford, Ohio 
[DePaul, Southern Illinois, Miami (Ohio)] · . Oct. 3-4@ Stanford Invitational, Palo Alto, California 
(Stanford, New Mexico, San Jose State) 
18 @ Butler 7:00 p.m. 
19 @ Evansville 7:00 p.m. 
22@ Illinois 7:30p.m. 
25 Xavier 7:30p.m. 
26 Dayton 4:00 p.m. 
27 Akron 2:00 p.m. 

30 Louisville 7:00p.m. Nov. 2@ Toledo 7:30p.m. 
3 @ Bowling Green 4:00 p.m. 
15-16@ MCC Championships, Indianapolis, Indiana 
23 vs. San Francisco 1 :00 p.m. Hempstead, New York 
24@ Hofstra 1:00 p.m. 

29@ Texas-Arlington 7:30p.m. 
30 @ T n 7:30 .m. 
The Observer!Brendan Regan 
Campus golf tournament begins Friday 
Special 1o the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and 
women's golf teams are hosting 
the 1991 Fall University 

Championship Tournament. It 
is an open tournament that also 
serves as tryouts for anyone 
interested in joining the varsity 
golf teams. 
It will be a 72-hole, stroke 

play tournament for the men's 
student division, and a 36-hole 
stroke play tourney for the 
women. There is a five dollar 
entry fee, and entry forms are 
available in the golf pro shop. 
The dates for the men's draw are for Saturday, August 31st and Sunday, September 1st, with a cut after Sunday's play. The remaining golfers will play two rounds on Sunday, Septem­ber 8th for the championship. The women only play the first two days. 
There is an entry deadline of 

5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, Au­gust 28th, and no late entries will be accepted. 

r 
page 20
u I The Observer Saturday, August 24, 1991 · 
I 
t Losing 13 starters doesn't I li dampen Buffs expectations 
BOULDER, Colo. (AP) -For most teams, losing 13 starters to graduation -including nine who were drafted into the NFL -would be cause for conster­nation. 
The fact that there is little hand-wringing or nail-biting in evidence at Colorado this fall is a clear indication this is not your average college football program anymore. 
The Buffaloes don't realisti­cally expect to duplicate their national championship of last year, but neither do they expect to fall very far. A string of quality recruiting classes should ensure their continued lofty standing. 
"We may have some growing pains this year, but we have talent," coach Bill McCartney said. "The ingredients are here for us to have continued suc­cess into the '90s. I see no rea­son for us not to be in the thick of things." 
What does trouble McCartney is an offensive line that could include as many as three freshmen starters. 
"We're raw, and we'll have to force-feed some of these young guys," he said. 
As a result, McCartney ex­pects his defense to "accept the 
WORDS 
In 1988, Notre Dame said: 

Can W9 ignore tlat homa;exual persons feel ostacized if they n open about lhef efbr1s t) understand lhef sexuality, h.lf we are serious about educating skldents, [we cannot~ .. 
Evidenw from marrt quarters indicalas a widescread ho61ilitv directed tlWards homosexual ~ons which is coorary t) lhe Clvistan nat.ne of the institutiln...a ~of atitvde mtstbe btoufjltabout,~ ~oors~...we miJit ..tmgaboutan envionfl96flt whdl is sufJXXfive of45 
~lt. 
lj 
The lil~ should tamt.Jas emPJtiish a 
p;Jic,y staleroont which addrasses the rl88d kr 
~ atma;plmJ ofbUance, rospect, fnd 
'· 
rmdisainnatioo kra1petSOOS without regarJ ~ sexl8 aien~Um. Itshovld ildude "sexuci aiant:~aon•;, ~ kxmaJ I"JOfldsainilaiOn pdcy st:llements. 
The lil~should broaden~~ can;xsm9Bfng {iac8s em b ctmnels kr PJblic notK:e ofmoor;,g& fer membets oflie UrWarsif Convn!.R~ iltrestsdil disctssing issues rolaiJd ~ sexuciit;, ilcJucjng homosexually. 
'Ta tan hi Task Faceon~. F~ and 0111r 
lJB CanninItS Repttt. as b.nd In Noire DMne Beoortt 
(Spadilllsa.oe. Apl8, 1988). AcqiJ clfle repor1 can be 
b.nd In tie lbr;wy. EmPialis added. 
ACTIONS 

In 1991, ij)tJe Dane: ~to IJ8Wd Bsbian, gay Cl1d bisexual Sll.del1s from rneeti'Y!l on C3llJUS '8fB."8l gUdeines to ~at1"601' a of lhe Lfii9Qlgrlized gay illd klstias1 ~ 'COrtilued to deny empbyment to ~based onsexlllloriertaion 
Gay and 1rSian stultntHDl their supporterHhint it's time b Notre Dame's adiom to catd1 up with its wonk. 
To help the students who have helped 
lesbians and gays at Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's for aver 7 years, write 
Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
challenge at the onset to set the tempo for the team." 
And the defense appears to be up to the task. "Our defense should measure up nationally," McCartney said. "I think we have the talent to have the best defense we've ever had here." 
Gone from that unit are linebackers Alfred Williams, a first-round draft choice, and Kanavis McGhee, a second­rounder. While the linebacking corps has undergone some reshuffling, a number of key starters return, including nose tackle Joel Steed, free safety Greg Thomas, tackle Leonard Renfro, linebackers Greg Biekert and Chad Brown and cornerback Deon Figures. 
The only returning starters on offense are quarterback Darian Hagan, center Jay Leeuwenburg and tight end Sean Brown. 
After Hagan tore his left kne• in Colorado's Orange Bowl vic· tory over Notre Dame, som• thought his career was over But the knee now appear~ sound following an intensiV£ rehab program that preventec him from competing in sprin~ drills. 
"It looks like he's fully recov­ered," McCartney said. "H€ 

Rec Sports/NVA holds signups for fall semester 
Observer Staff Report 
For students who may not have quite the ability to com­pete for one of Notre Dame's varsity teams, the Rec Sports/NVA program provides an outlet for their athletic tal­ents. 
Signups for men's and women's interhall football, co­ree and 16-inch softball, men's and women's tennis and the freshman swim meet are due by September 4th. Men's interhall soccer lists are to be turned in by September 11th. 
The Rec Sports/NVA office is on the first floor of the Joyce ACC's North Dome next to the equipment issue room. All par­ticipants will have to provide proof of insurance in order to compete. 
Rec Sports/NVA also offers aerobics classes designed for all different types of work­outs-from beginners to high intensity to water aerobics. 
Classes in both karate and judo also are on tap for the fall semester. The karate program costs $15 per semester, while the judo classes cost $25 with limited enrollment. 

Hagan's request that he be given a shot as a punt returner 
- a  position  he  more  likely  
would play in the pros.  
After  becoming  the  sixth  

player in NCAA history to run and pass for 1,000 yards in the same season as a sophomore, Hagan slumped to 442 yards rushing last season and didn't display the same quickness that had made him one of the most 
But McCartney says that's be­cause Hagan battled nagging injuries most of the year and was called upon to play a dif­ferent role. 
"We asked him to throw the ball more last year," the coach said. "We didn't need him to carry the ball as much." 

STORE HOURS MON -FRI 9:00 TO 8:00 SAT SUN NOON TO 5:00 
NORTH 
STRTE LINE CRRPET 
~LRND 
RUTEN 
0 
SRI NT 
Mnnv·s 

DORM· ROOM SIZE I

• 
NO Keep your feet warm this winter! 
ALL REMNANTS 
50%= 
r----------------------------------·· 1I Additional 1 0°/o off I ! I with College I.D. ! I 
L-------------~------------------~--~ 
Follow Douglas Road to: 
50760 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4500 
• 
saturday, August 24, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Men's soccer hopes to rebound from 'unlucky' year 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 
Although several thousand men and women will spend the next week sorting out their new homes, one man will be spend­ing his time very differently. 
Notre Dame soccer coach Mike Berticelli, on the brink of his second season with the Irish, will be busy evaluating a bumper crop of freshmen and eleven returning lettermen. 
"I'm extremely pleased with our recruiting class," said Ber­ticelli, who is coming off the first losing season in his fifteen years of coaching. '"For our first year of recruiting, I'm ex­tremely pleased with the quality of players." 
And well he should be. 
Not only can the Irish depth charts boast of two Parade Magazine High School All­Americans (goalkeeper Bert Bader and midfielder Jason Fox), but they can also show­case two of Gatorade 's Top Eight High School players in addition to numerous players with United States National Team experience. 
"This recruiting class wasn't based on our reputation as a program or as recruiters, or even on our background," ex­plained Berticelli. "We just re­cruited people by saying that we are building a program. We recruited with the Notre Dame tradition of success, and with promises that soccer will be a part of that Notre Dame tradi­tion. 
"We've got a thick pile of press clippings right now, but I think that it will turn into re­sults on the field because these kids are intense, competitive athletes. They're gonna bring a lot of excitement to the pro­gram. You have to be realistic, though, and see that we're not gonna be the best in the nation, but we'll be very, very competi­tive with anybody we play." 
Yet the vast pool of freshman talent will not be the sole driv­

.-.... 
The Observer/John Rock Fall drills are a time to impress coaches, work on fundamentals, and prepare for the upcoming season. Here, members of the men's soccer team practice their dribbling. 

ing force behind the Irish push 
for success. 
Co-captains Brett Hofmann 
and Kenyon Meyer will bolster 
the defense and offense respec­
tively for Berticelli, whose team 
finished 4-11-3 overall and 2-6­
1 in the Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference last season. 
Hofmann, who received no playing time as a freshman, is a consistent defensive performer has started 37 of 38 games over the last two years. Meyer, on the other hand, tied for the Irish lead in goals last year (seven; winner vs. Ohio State) and notched one assist while firing 29 shots. 
"The fact that our upper­classmen have shown tremen­dous attitude and that we've gotten firm leadership from our captains. The first three days of pre-season have been exciting, and it's exciting to think of the possibilities." 
The other returning starters-midfielder Brendon Dillman, goalie Peter Gulli, forward Kevin Pendergast, de­fender Pat Sullivan, and sweeper Mario Tricoci-and lettermen hope to create a win­ning chemistry in Berticelli's second season. 
Still, Notre Dame stands in need of work in several areas, most notably: 
•DEFENSE. The Irish need to tighten up the unit that surren­dered 3 2 goals last season. "We just have to be more intense on the defensive third of the field," analyzed Berticelli. "We really have to play out of the back better than we did last year, but we have the players to do that." 
Goalkeeping was also a prob­lem for the Irish last year, but one which they are confident of overcoming. 
"We weren't as solid as we would have liked to have been, but it's not the fault of particu­larly anyone," stated Berticelli. 
"Pete Gulli stepped into a start­ing role with no Division I ex­perience, and Matt Fitz was a walk-on. We really didn't have as much time to prepare as we'd have liked to have. We've got five goalkeepers working 
out in pre-season, and they're all showing very, very positive signs and being very competi­
to be a bit more creative and skillful than we have been in the midfield," observed Berticelli. "We have lots of freshmen here, though, and one player-Mike Palmer of South Bend-has had a great spring and tremendous pre-season. Palmer does a great job and he has a tremendous work ethic, so things look good for us." 
•ATTACK. Scoring opportu­nities were infrequently trans­lated into scores last season. "This job will probably fall to Kevin Pendergast (33 shots, 7 goals, 4 assists, 1 winner in 1990). He's had a very good pre-season. The rest of the scoring will probably come from our new players, or someone that did not score much last year will have to rise to the occasion." 
If it sounds like Notre Dame is 

hard at work on every facet of 
its game, it's because that is 
exactly the case. Berticelli will 
go to any lengths to reverse last 
season's unlucky finish . 
"Last year, we lost seven games that we could have won just as easily," ruminated the second-year coach. '"It wasn't a disastrous season, it was un­lucky. But I believe that you make your own luck, and we didn't make it at times like we should have. We can't let that happen again, and this time we won't let it happen. 
..1 think about last season ev­ery day because I learned a lot from it. I learned that you can't always fix everything that's wrong with a team, and also that it takes time to fix any­thing. I guess that I was hum­bled by the game." 
Finally, Berticelli is not alone in his quest of molding the win­ning team. Second-year assis­tant coach Chris Petrucelli, who is the Notre Dame women's soccer head coach, will be aided by new assistant coach Mike Parsons. 
Yet this will not be a new combination of coaching wis­dom. Parsons was with Berti­celli and Petrucelli at UNC-Greensboro for a NCAA Division III National Championship in 
1982 (Petrucelli as a player, Parsons as assistant coach, Berticelli as head coach). From there, Parsons went on to to an
assistant coaching position at Old Dominion (with Petrucelli under Berticelli) and then onto head coaching positions at 
HOUSE FOR RENT ROOMMATES NEEDED 
2-4 PEOPLE WASHER/DRYER INCLUDED SHARE UTILITY AND RENT 
5 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS CALL 233-1317 
-=========================~-..!:=======:.====;:;..........!~-, tive. Whoever starts will have to 
earn the spot." 
•MIDFIELD. The key to any successful season, Notre Dame 
must fmd more ways to produce 
..g•o•p•p•o•r•tu•n•i•ti•es···"•W•e..h•a•v•e..S•t•e•ts•o•n•a•n•d..M•e•th•o•di•"•s•t.......~ 
1991 NOTRE DAME 


.. through Friday.
A\\ day. MondaY. 
Only atthe Hactenda. 
'd be Hacienda. No 
me \tWOUI ey

\f va\ue had ana , t food for so Httle man . t \ves you so much grea eekday and get a 
g u go for \unch or dinner any: r $3? \nc\uding Where e\se can y~ festive atmosphere for u~ e m~a\ dea\ full meal served m a • You won'tfind that Kmd of yfor good 

FREE chips and sauce. So when you're hungrfast food restaurant. ' 
t a

even a · 
easonab\e pnce...
food at a r 
"In t~~e restaurant onlY· 

Mishawaka · Grape Road at Indian Ridge Plaza • 277-1318· · U.S. 33 at 100 Center • 259-8541 · South Bend Scottsdale Mall • 291-2566 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 



, , • • • • .. _ •• ... • "' • .. • .s. .-.. ' 
page 22 

New coach directs SMC volleyball Cross country teams ready for new year 
By JENNIFER MARTEN cited about the opportunity to Sports Writer take over and to continue to Men hope to build upon third-place finish at NCAAs 
build the program that former 
Julie Schroeder-Biek has head coach, Sue Medley, devel­By JENNIFER MARTEN 
ish third in the nation last year. returned to Saint Mary's to oped," said Schroeder-Biek. Sports Writer He also won the American coach a volleyball team that she The Belles face a very World trials and competed in used to play on. competitive schedule, but Ranked fifth nationally in the world championships. Schroeder-Biek has been the return a strong team and also preseason, the Notre Dame Sophomore Mike McWilliams 
I assistant coach for the last two had a good recruiting year. men's cross country team is also had an All-American sea­(.1 years at Saint Mary's. She in­There is a strong possibility looking forward to another son in his freshman year. herits a team that was ranked that this team could receive a successful season. Despite los­Finishing 34th in the NCAA 
I 
I~ in the top ten of the Division III post-season bid. ing two of their top runners to championships, he was the statistics for kill average, assist Returning for the Belles are graduation, the Irish return number two runner for Notre average, and block average two leaders on the team. Karen with a solid squad and a Dame during the NCAA cham­throughout last season. Lorton, a junior middle blocker promising group of freshmen. pionships. ..As a former player at Saint from South Bend, led the team Notre Dame coach Joe Piane McWilliams also should 
Mary's, I know how good our in kills, serve percentage, hit­expects the freshmen to con­John Coyle emerge as a team leader this program really is, and am ex-ting, and assists last year. tribute to the success of this finish in the 1990 MCC champi­year, and according to Piane, 
j:i year's team, but the returning onships. He will be a consistent should be "someone to be reck­
runners will be the heart of the runner that the team can de! oned with" this season. J1 team. pend on throughout the season. The team has finished as one li Senior captain Pat Kearns Junior John Coyle returns of the top 10 teams in the na­
n 
placed in the top 10 in every after a successful season in tion three of the last four years, meet going into districts last which his All-American perfor­including last year's third-place year and recorded a first-place mance helped Notre Dame fm-finish. 
Connelly excited about women's chances for '91 season 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Carolina, and Sarah Riley, who In addition to Blaising, senior Sports Writer won the California State Diana Bradley and junior Lisa Championship her junior year. Gorski will be other leaders for 
The Notre Dame women's Other freshmen who will con­the young team. Bradley had a cross country team will have a tribute to the program this year solid season and was the top youthful appearance when include Becky Alfieri of Irish finisher against George­practice opens on Monday. Spencerport, NY, Stefanie town while Gorski was the top Joining seasoned veterans Amy Jensen of South Lake Tahoe, Irish finisher at the MCC Blaising, Diane Bradley, and CA, Emily Husted of New championships. Lisa Gorski will be a significant Palastine, IN, and Polly Hassi of Director of Cross Country Joe number of freshmen and Irish Phoenix, AZ. Piane feels the team will be coach Tim Connelly is excited composed of a "higher caliber about the season. Last year, the team, which is of women," but the team must 
in its fifth year as a varsity take small steps and improve 
"I am expecting the freshmen program, won the Midwestern meet by meet. to come in and help us right Collegiate Conference and away," said Connelly. The placed second in the National Any woman interested in try­freshmen class includes Eva Catholic Meet to Boston College. ing out for the team should talk Flood, a runner from County Senior captain Amy Blaising to Coach Connelly in his office Dublin, Ireland who placed sec­will be a leader for the young in Loftus before tryouts begin
I ond in the national juniors cross squad. Blaising notched her on Monday. Anyone who can't
j; 
country race in her country, personal best at the Indiana reach the coach before Monday 
Kala Boulware, a three time Intercollegiates with a time of should report to the outdoor 
state champion in South 18:48 last year. track at 3:00 p.m. 



FRESHMAN WELCOME WEEK 
MONDAyI AUGUST 26 3PM-8PM "'NOTRE DAME NIGHT AT UNIVERSITY PARK MALL"" Catch a •7 Trenspo Bus for only $.30 et the NO Library Bt one of the following times end enjoy an evening of coupons end discounts et the Mall. 
Bus leaves  Returns  
NO Library:  from Mall:  
3:01 p.m.  3:17p.m.  
3:31 p.m.  3:47p.m.  
4:01 p.m.  4:17p.m.  
4:31 p.m.  4:47p.m.  
5:01 p.m.  5:17p.m.  
5:31 p.m.  5:47p.m.  
6:01 p.m.  6:17p.m.  
6:31 p.m.  6:47p.m.  
7:40p.m.  7:53p.m.  
8:43p.m.  
9:33p.m.  

TUESDAY~ AUGUST 27 ""MAKE YOUR OWN SUNDAE'" *FREE* (To N.D. fre:thmen) 
8pm-1 Opm in 

THEODORE'S 2nd Floor, LE!Fortune Student Center 
. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.. . ....... . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . 
-
WEDNESDAyI AUGUST 28 "'FRESHMEN MOVIE NIGHT"' *FREE* 
'"FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF" 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
7:00 PM & 9:30 PM 
• 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 29 '"FRESHMAN BOWLING NIGHT"" AT UNI VERS lTV LANES 7:00 PM-1 1:00 PM 
Bus 1 e a v e s N D M e i n Ci rc1 e et 6:45 PM, 7: 15 PM, 
7:45 PM, 8: i 5 PM & 8:45 PM 
Lest shuttle 1eeves Uni v e rs it y·L. ene s at 1 1 : 0 0 PM 
$ 1.75 per geme wI NO I.D. Shoes: $1.30/pr. FRE:: Transportation 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 30 "'OJ NIGHT AT THEODORE"S.. (2nd Floor, LaFortune Student Center) 9:00 PM-1:00 AM *FREE* 
Brings your friends & dance the night away!!!!!! 
SATURDAY,AUGUST31 & SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 COME AND SEE 
··cRAIG KARGES .. Mind reader. ESP.. Psychic M6gician 
8:00PM WASHINGTON HAll 
Tickets -$3.00 on se 1 e et LeFo rtune lnformetion Desk 
SATISFACTI O~J GUARANTEED or your money back!!!!! 


a • a a a a • • a a • a • a a a a a • a • a • • a a • a a a • a • a a a a • a • a • • • • a a I 
For More Information Call 239-,7308. 

Saturday, August 24, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
MENU CROSSWORD 
Notre Dame 
ACROSS 32 Settled snugly 61 Metric unit, for 34A .45 
short1 Foldaways 
Saturday Monday 
35 Gun owners' 62--Palme,
5 Limiting memorablecondition

Turkey Rice Soup Pasta Bar gp. Swedish
36 Welty's "The 
10 Ocean liner? 

BBQ Glazers BBQ Ribs Wide--" statesman 
14 Out of whack

Fried Clams Shepherds Pie 37 Military asst. 63 Lyric poem
15 Allan--of

Mushroom Stroganoff 40 Ring-win called 64 Pianist Gilels 
old ballads 

by a ref 65 Lip service? 
16 "Song of India," 

Sunday e.g. 41 Alms 66 Allude (to) 
17 Actress Bonet 43 Proprietary right 67 English poet-critic:
New England Clam 1a Hindu 46 "I'll set-of 1893-1968
Chowder mendicant rue ...": Shak. 
Roast Turkey 19 It's in the book 4a Sanctity Kielbasa & Kraut 20 "THANKS FOR 49A British DOWN THE" breakfast dish 1 Halloo
23 To be, in Brest 52 Consumer 2 Miscellany 24 Unyielding 53 VERMONT ANA 3ALDAS2a Civil 57 Intangible 4 Fitful 

disobedience barrier for marathoners 5 The quicker
31 "-Book": E. 

picker upper? 
Burdick 60 French toast 6 "Giselle" composer 7 Sign on a
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
giveaway aGo up 9 King of Judea 
271mpedes, 42 Swallows up 54 Jack-a-dandy10 Lascivious legally 44 "... bound upon 55 Lamb cover-up11 Is multiplied? 
2a "Where the Wild a-fire ...": 56 Realtor's sign 
12 Noway 
Things Are" King Lear 57 Chinese13 "Dese are de author 45 Plimsoll cooking pan
conditions­
29 Dress for the 47 Cognizance sa Cousin ofprevail": bench so Perron part Mohammed
.• 
Durante 30 VIII 51 Public 59 Altos or Banos
21 He wrote "What 
storehouse preceder
the Butler Saw" 33 Linda of "Another World"
22 Hose woe 25 "THE TIME 38 Reduce the Answers to any three clues in this 
TIME sheen of yarn 
puzzle are available by touch-tone MACHINE" 39 Movie critic phone; 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 26 "-cheap" Judith minute). 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
EAA.'f\(S £XC£S'S\~ GAA~\T'( 
W\T\\ ~IJ'5Q£S Of MA.G~Ii\l~ \'5 ~~ ~TC\1. R>R STUPEN()(JIJS 
1\\E Mf..S'I<E.D ~ r::k MIG\\T IWIS snJP£t'\OOtJS ~! 
RO\.l5 t>.. ~~~\1\\\C s~wam. ... 
\ 

... '«~t.Rt. "E \.IStS \-\IS Si\I~OO'J5 '4\S\0~ It> LOCAl'£ n\£. 01/1. Bel\cto.L t>RC..\\ ·8~ 
AHHOY!If6 Gil« .' 
' 

In the days before feathers "Don't make any erratic movements, Miss Halloway . 
• • • Not only Is the truculent nature of this species amply documented, but, as you can discern for yourself, the little suckers can really jump." 
.. f 
The Observer 
would like to welcome all new students 
•
to NOtre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Join The Observer and become a part of the craziest organization on campus. Stop and visit our booth on Activities Night, September 3, or come up to our office on the 3 rd floor of LaFortune. 



f' 
~~. 
Sports
~ :
·~.· ~ 
; page 24 Saturday, August 24, 1991 

r : 'I 
: ~~ 
I!~~ 
,,, t r 
i !• ;1 ~ ·l1 
\i 
;.!i 
u 
'It ·' 
I' 
' 
~~, 
/.. 
" 
:il 
:j 
r 
l< 
)> !: Hi
lit 
)I!; 


'( 
-
;! 
l.i:. 
.··t 
).lj 
·~ ~-~ 1, 
I 
'i 
.!} 
~
'n'' 
\I
., II
,, 
!! 
;',
jl .; 
Off-season casualtie~ force Irish to change on the fly 

Transfers, disciplinary problems leave lineup in doubt; Poorman to QB 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 

George Poorman at quarter­back? 
While injuries and questions about the NBC contract, steroid abuse and play selection har­ried Lou Holtz and the rest of the Fighting Irish coaching staff throughout the 1990 season, this 104th season of Notre Dame football is fast approach­ing with new questions of its own. 
Will George ..Boo" Williams return to anchor the defensive line? Linemen Troy Ridgely and Todd Stoker may return soon, but how will the Irish adapt to the losses of tailback Dorsey Levens (transfer), quarterbacks 
B.J. Hawkins and Jake Kelchner (transfer; denied readmission from Holy Cross), fullbacks Walter Boyd and Rusty Setzer (dismissed for undisclosed reasons; withdrew from team), lineman Winston Sandri (denied fifth year eligi­bility), all-purpose man Raghib Ismail (early departure to the CFL) and freshmen Mike Miller, Huntley Bakich and Germaine Holden (muscle pulls)? 
Of course, Williams, Sandri, and Kelchner were only possi­ble additions to Notre Dame's alreadv stacked depth charts, but th-eir absence is sure to leave armchair coaches across the United States (and Europe, thanks to NBC's inter-continen­tal telecasts) wondering what might have been. 
Perhaps worst of all, 
Kelchner, whose attempt at readmission was hampered by a driving-under-the-influence incident, had pushed Irish quarterback Rick Mirer to keep his game at its best. The depar­ture of B.J. Hawkins led Holtz to switch defensive back George Poonnan roquarterback. While Poorman gives Notre Dame a more experienced backup, sophomore Kevin McDougal and freshman Paul Failla are also capable signal-callers. 
All in all, lists of departures and disciplinary casualties should not obscure the im­mense wealth of talent which the Irish will throw at their ri­vals from September until January. 
On defense, linebacker Demetrius DuBose and backs Greg Lane and Rod Smith promise to punish opposing of­fenses. Meanwhile, Mirer, tight end Derek Brown, offensive linemen Gene McGuire, Justin Hall and Mirko Jurkovic, as well as captain Rodney Culver, Jerome Bettis and the Brooks Brothers (Tony and Reggie) in the backfield hope to give simi­lar workouts to the same teams' defenses. 
Culver finds himself in the not-so-common position of be­ing the sole captain-the first solitary captain since 1986-on a team where numerous in­dividuals were voted for. In fact, the voting for captain had to be re-conducted several times because of votes cast for players no longer on the Irish roster. 
The Observer/Kevin Weise With the loss of potential back-ups Jake Kelchner and B.J. Hawkins, the 1991 Notre Dame football season depends upon the health of junior quarterback Rick Mirer (shown here in last spring's Blue-Gold game). 
Macleod ·happy to be Irish 
New ND coach heads out on recruiting trail in high spirits 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It may be early to be talking about the NCAA tourney, March Madness, and Irish basketball, but for first-year coach John MacLeod there is plenty ro talk about and do in preparation for the upcoming season. 
MacLeod is now in the pro­cess of recruiting, a task that he has not had since his days at Oklahoma. 
"I went to the Nike camp which had 125 high school players," said MacLeod. "It was very overwhelming." 
But, according to MacLeod it is a skill he has not lost, and a job that he enjoys. 
"Recruiting is selling, and a coach doesn't ever really lose his selling ability," explained MacLeod. "It's an easy job be­cause we have such a great uni­versity to sell. I want to get the kids who really want to come to Notre Dame. If they don't want to be here I don't want them." 
According to MacLeod, re­cruiting is one of the major changes he is undergoing from the shift from pro basketball. He first must adjust from a 95­game to a 30-game schedule. 
"There will be a lot less games and a lot more practice time," stated MacLeod. "But that is good, because we need the time to develop and grow." 
The college game has under­gone a few changes since MacLeod last coached at 

John Macleod 

Oklahoma. MacLeod believes, however, that his professional experience should directly apply to the collegiate level. 
"With the establishment of the three-point shot and the 45­second clock, the college game has changed for the better," said MacLeod. "We had a 30­second shot clock they tried out for a couple years while I was at Oklahoma, and the basket­ball got much better for the fans and the athletes. But the changes have made the game more like the pro game." 
Getting his team to practice together and play as a team is MacLeod's goal for the upcom­ing year. 
"The team's that are suc­cessful are the teams that work as a team," remarked MacLeod. .. If you look at the teams like the Lakers, their teamwork is what made them the best. Their individual recognition came from their success as a team. I want to establish the imoor­tance of team play and have an unselrtsh team." 
Irish fans can look forward to a fast pace this year. MacLeod wants to speed up the Irish offense, but don't expect to see a Loyola Marymount run­and-gun show in the Joyce ACC this year. 
"I want to speed up the tempo, I want high percentage shots along with a strong de­fense, but I don't want bad shots put up." explained MacLeod. 
Notre Dame's usual tough schedule is a plus according ro MacLeod. It will test the Irish every game, and force them to play at their best. 
"I'll put our schedule up against anybody's in the na­tion," said MacLeod. "We play the best teams in many confer­ences around the country. It makes for a good level of com­petition and gives us good tele­vision exposure in five major markets, (Philadelphia, New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Texas)." 
When asked about his deci­sion to come to Notre Dame, he explains that this is a unique opportunity for any coach. 
"I love the atmosphere here," declared MacLeod. "There is great tradition here, and this is a great environment for college students. I believe we can become a basketball powerhouse. This will not hap-
see MACLEOD I page 18 
Irish Olympic sports have tastes of success too 
Welcome, all new students. 
Let me let you in on a big secret early in your Notre Dame careers. Okay, here it is: there are actually other varsity sports on campus besides the football team. 
I can see you trying to catch your collective breaths at this startling news. 

With the recent downturn in the Rene Ferran fortunes of the men's basketball team the last couple of years, it just only Associate Sports seems like the only sports team worth Editor 
mentioning is the football team. But _________ upon further review, the replay official provides the following evidence of life outside of Rockne Stadium: 
•The 
women's soccer team, in only its third year as a varsity sport, finished 16-3-1 last season and ninth in the Central Region rankings. 

•The 
men's cross country team took third at the NCAA championships last November, and both junior John Coyle and sophomore Mike McWilliams earned All-American honors. 

•The 
women's basketball team won its third straight conference title, won over 20 games for the fourth consecutive season with a 23-6 record, and made the Associated Press' Top 20 for the first time in its history. 

•The 
wrestling team sent four members to the NCAA meet, with junior Steve King finishing eighth in his weight class, good enough to gain All-American status. 

•Tanya 
Williams became the first Irish swimmer to ever earn All-American honors with her eighth-place finish at the NCAAs. 

•The 
fencing team finished a combined third at the NCAA meet, with senior Heidi Piper winning the individual title in the women's foil. 

•The 
baseball team won another Midwestern Collegiate Conference title, finishing 45-16 and ranked 19th in the country by Collegiate BasebalVESPN. 

•The 
men's tennis team made its first-ever appearance at the NCAA tournament, and senior David DiLucia reached the round of 16. 


Now, some of these accomplishments are not Dome-shattering. However, they are proof that other sports exist on this campus-and do quite well. Not quite 11 national championships, perhaps, but noteworthy just the same. 



