
..------------~---­
l
.I I 

w~H&~ I 

·Q·&·
server 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~ 


Academic council prepares to review Code of Honor 

VOL. XXIV NO. 46 
Hditor's note: The following is the second part of a two-part srries on thr University's Academic 1/onor code. 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's Academic Council will review the i\cademic Code of Honor at the organization's first meeting in February. 
John Coffey, Academic Code of llonor Committee chair, and others will present an evalua­tion of the code at the meeting, according to Father Oliver Williams, associate provost and member of the committee. 
The Council implemented the code of honor in 1988, for a four-year trial period to end this January. During the code's first year, freshmen committed to follow its terms in certain courses. Professors of upper­class courses could propose that their courses be governed 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Local officials discuss rape issues, prevention 
By NICOLE MCGRATH News Writer 
Five cases of rape have been reported in South Bend within the first four days of November, according to Laurel Eslinger, who has worked with the Madison Center Sex Offense Services (S.O.S.) for 15 years. 
Joining Eslinger were Lt. Bonnie Werntz of the South Bend Police Department and Deputy Prosecutor John Marnocha. 
"Rape is any sexual inter­course against a person's will and is not gender specific," said Eslinger. The reasons someone rapes are to degrade, to control or to overpower a person, according to Eslinger. 
"Rape is not a sexual act," said Eslinger. "It is an act of violence." 
There are three types of 
by the code. If the college dean approved. and no students in the course objected, the code was in place. 
The honor code is now effec­tive for all courses, according to Williams. 
These four years have not been Notre Dame's first exper­iment with an honor code. A code was in effect prior to 1969, when members of the Student Honor Council resigned because they did not think students were committed to the code. 
Williams, Academic Code of Honor Committee chair when the code was implemented, commented then that he thought students would be more supportive of the new code. 
And they have been, he now says. The code has been "quite successful," according to Williams, who recalled that the key reason the Council first supported the code was that "it 
The Honor Code 
Second in a two-part 


would be· a tool of moral educa­tion." 
The code's terms are similar to those in the "real world," Williams said, "although the penalties are much harsher there." 
An example is the "non-toler­ance clause," which states that a student must urge classmates witnessed violating the code to turn themselves in, or inform on the violators personally. Many students dislike this clause, Williams said, and it "reflects the real world in that we all have a problem with it." 
"Adults have a problem with telling an alcoholic friend he's got a problem, but it's an im­portant skill to learn...how to tell someone he's messing his life up," Williams said. 
Raymvnd Sepeta, associate professional specialist of the Freshman Year of Studies, and a member of the Academic Code of Honor Committee, also favors the code. He said he wishes the community were better informed on the topic, though. 
"My criticisms of the code are aimed at myself as much as anyone," he commented. 
Sepeta went to a military uni­versity with an honor code, he said, where people met fre­quently to discuss the code's meaning. Here, many people confront the code once during their University career, he said, and as time passes, "people get rusty on the rules." 
He agreed that the "non-tol­erance clause" is difficult to abide by, but said it comple­ments the sense of community and family the University has. 
rapists, said Eslinger, the most common being the power rapist. The power rapists use rape to make themselves feel powerful, she said. The rapes are premeditated and often the victims feel guilty. Date rape is often attributed to this category. 
Anger rapists are the second type, said Eslinger, and these rapes are usually not premedi­tated. The victims are found physically hurt and have a why­me mentality. 
Sadistic rapists are among the smallest group of rapists but are the ones who make the headlines, according to Eslinger. The rapist will sys­tematically plan and torture the victim, and unless someone in­tervenes, the victim usually does not survive. 
"All reactions to rape are a normal one," said Eslinger. Reactions such as sleeping dis-
see RAPE! page 4 

Most importantly, one must re­alize "the sum is bigger than the parts," according to Sepeta. 
Students' attitude toward the code has changed during the last four years. Sepeta said. Those who were introduced to the code in their junior or se­nior years were very cynical, he said, and the attitude now is "so much more positive. It's really come a long way." 
Sepeta related the story of a freshman taking her first math test. Her professor left the so­lutions on the desk and went to have a cup of coffee during the test, saying that because of the honor code he trusted them not to cheat. The freshman, Sepeta said, "felt so proud that (the professor) trusted them." 
The belief that the code is ba­sically a "promise not to lie" is a misinterpretation, according' to Williams. Really, "the student is saying, 'I am willing to sub-
see CODE! page 4 


Senate forms subcommittee for study of minority affairs 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
Thn Student Senate listened to a report given by Father Hir.hard Warner, co-chairman of thn Presidnntial Task Force on Cultural Diversity, and pro­posed the formation of sub­eommittees to study its consti­tution and the honor code dur­ing Monday's mneting. 
Warner said the task force was formnd on a request from Univnrsity President Father Edward Malloy after last semester's conflicts with Students United For Hespect. Its purpose is to examine the situation of minority students on campus and make recom­mendations to Malloy. 
The group is comprised of six faculty members, eight students ronment, culture and atmo­sphere, a second to examine structures and policies and a third to update the statistical basis of the Hatch Report, a study of minority affairs at Notre Dame completed in 1987. 
The Environment, Culture and Atmosphere committee plans to have hearings with individual minority groups and residence hall members to gain an idea of the minority atmosphere on campus, said Warner. 
The Policies and Programs coq1mittee has identified spe­cific problems at Notre Dame and is now looking to see how peer universities have dealt with similar situations, said committee member Joe Wilson. Targeted issues include struc­turing a more specific racial harassment policy, forming a 
Fountain of ice 
and six administrators. Three committee to handle affirmative 
The fountain beside LaFortune is now an ice sculpture shaped from the freezing temperatures and
sub-committees have been 
snow that has gripped the South Bend area.
formed: one to study envi-see SENATE/ page 6 
i r 
! 
I 
I 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Take responsibility for your op1n1ons 
Let's talk about the· graffiti syndrome. 
This is an ailment that seems to be affecting more individuals around here than one would like to think. In short, this syndrolje is a disorder in which individuals express Jay Hosie~ vile, hateful notions and/or Cartoonist their pointed opinions ------­about something or the other without taking credit for it (i.e., they do so anonymously). Obviously, the name springs from graffiti such as that which can be found in nearly every study carrel in that tower of intellectual purity called the Hesburgh Library. 
I have always been interested by the ex­cruciatingly hateful things people of this in­stitution are capable of scrawling; racial epithets, slurs against women and homo­sexuals, and the ever present invitations to perform any number of sexual acts. 
Why is this important? More importantly, is it important? Well, yeah, I think so. You see it all comes down to accountability; taking responsibility for the things you say. 
1\vo semesters ago, I was awakened by the incessant jangle of my phone. Fumbling through my room with all the grace and speed that could be expected at 3:00 a.m., I reached my phone. 
"Hello", I groveled. 

What proceeded out of the phone was the most well rehearsed tirades I have ever had the pleasure of experiencing. Wow, did I get an earful. I was so tired, I just stood there and listened. I was a sexist. A really, really big sexist. I should end my strip for the Observer. I was obviously jaded and bitter. I wasn't funny (this one snapped me awake). 
My stomach sank lower and lower. The last thing in the world I had wanted to do with my cartoons was seriously offend someone. These allegations really concerned me. I figured a discussion should ensue so I could get a better grasp on her perspective. But not now, not at 3:00p.m.. I was exhausted and in no position to discuss anything coherently. I would set-up another time to talk. 
So I asked her name. Silence. Maybe she didn't hear me. I asked her name again. She just started talking again, ignoring me. I asked her name again. And again. And again. She hung up. I stood there with the phone in my hand. 
Someone had just raised some serious issues and although I didn't agree with her point of view, I realized that she may have some insight that I might be lacking. But there was no discussion, no exchange of ideas and as I tried to get back to sleep I realized that I had just been the victim of intellectual terrorism. Blind-sided by someone who obviously lacked a strong enough conviction in her ideas to associate her name with them. 
Now, I've learned to expect feedback only when I've done something wrong. I can live with that. All I ask is that if you do have an opinion to express, take responsibility for it. Because the graffiti syndrome and intellectual terrorism are just euphemisms for something far more fundamental-cowardice. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY"S STAFF:  Jon Halloran  
PRODUCTION:  Pat Barth  
Melissa Cusack  ACCENT:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Jahnelle Harrigan  
SPORTS:  Cheryl Moser  
Rich Kurz  Laurie Sessa  
SCOREBOARD:  AD DESIGN:  
Rolando de Aguiar  Molly Belden  
NEWS:  Kathy Benz  
Frank Rivera  JP Thole  
Julie Barrett  Alissa Murphy  
SYSTEMS:  GRAPHICS:  
Cesar Capella  Brendan Regan  

~----------------~­
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-~-----------,
~· ----·------~ -­
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
L  
46  
32  
41  
31\  
26  
44  
36  
29 72  :·: r  
47  
28  
41  
51  
52  
69  
42  
33  
45  
30  
54  
34  


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
VlaAssoc/aledPress ©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 50 49
Pressure 
52 32 

L tE1 ~ [UJ 0 EZI ~ i) 17 
SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
::::· ··;:::::; .;:;: ":::: 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

exile in Hawaii in 1989. The government says President Ferdinand Marcos and his flamboyant wife stole up to $10 billion from the Philippine people during his 20-year rule. Mrs. Marcos faces nine tax fraud and other charges in connection with allegations she and her husband pillaged the treasury before their February 1986 exile in the "people power" revolution. President Aquino's chief aide, Franklin Drilon. said the former first lady was allowed to return so the government could prosecute her and thereby meet Switzerland's conditions for returning $350 million from banks there. 
NATIONAL 
Senate bewns another MIA probe 
•WASHING ON -A dozen senators will launch today another investigation into the controversy that has bedeviled the nation since the end of the Vietnam War regarding whether there were any U.S. servicemen left captive. Reports of live Americans sighted in Southeast Asia, photographs of questionable authenticity and Hol­lywood's box-office fiction have rekindled thoughts that somewhere in the jungles, Americans languish at the hands of communist captors. More than 15 years after the Vietnam War ended, 2,273 Americans still are listed as missing in action. Almost all of them are considered by the Pentagon to be dead, but many families remain skeptical about what the government has told them. The Vietnamese are more cooperative than ever before, and so is the Pentagon, which in the past has been accused of giving the brush-off to families of the missing, keeping too much information secret and dismissing evidence that may have merited further attention. 
Student kills five over Ph.D. honor 
•IOWA CITY, Iowa-When Gang Lu's doctoral dissertation wasn't chosen by a University of Iowa com­mittee for an academic honor, he filed a complaint -and bought a .38-caliber revolver. He took the gun to a weekly meeting of the physics and astronomy department Friday, where he began a rampage in which he killed five people and himself. Lu, 28, shot to death two professors and the student whose dissertation last spring was nominated for the award over Lu's. Then he left the meeting room and killed a third professor in his office. Next he went to another building, where he fatally shot an administrator and wounded her secretary. 
INDIANA 

Air law favors ethanol production 
•INDIANA-Hopes that a new federal clean air law will increase demand for ethanol are fueling a drive by producers of the corn-based gasoline additive to expand their capacity. The federal law requires that by Novem­ber 1992, gasoline must be reformulated to control car­bon monoxide and smog in the nation's 39 areas with the worst carbon monoxide pollution. One way to create an oxygenated, cleaner-burning fuel is to add ethanol, a colorless grain alcohol brewed from corn. And experts say demand for ethanol will go up; the question is by how much. Still, ethanol has yet to become widely accepted. Only about 8 percent of gasoline sold in the U.S. contains 10 percent ethanol, with sales concentrated in the midwest where public support for the corn fuel is higher. 
CAMPUS 

Notre Dame student accosted 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-A female Notre Dame student was accosted in D-2 South parking on Nov. 2 at approximately 1:50 a.m., according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. The student told Security she was approached by a black male who grabbed her arm. She was able to flee from the man after hitting him with a flashlight she found nearby. The student was not injured in the incident, he said. Security is investigating the incident. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On November 5: 
• 
In 1914: Britain, France, and Russia declared war on Turkey, and Britain annexed Cyprus. 

• 
In 1921 : Outer Mongolia signed and accord with Russian to protect against a Japanese or Chinese invasion. 

• 
In 1940: President Roosevelt became the first man in history to be re-elected for a third term, over the Republican candidate Wendell Willkie. 

• 
In 1966: Florence's cathedral II Duomo was damaged, along with many of its art treasures, after days of storms and violent rain hit Italy. 

•In 
1979: Cartoonist AI Capp, who worked on strips like "Li'l Abner" and "Joe Palooka," died at the age of 70. 



l 
I 

Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Surgeon Gene~al targets TV beer and wine ads 


-
HowAmerican Expresshelps you cover more territory.For less money. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Surgeon General Antonia Novello asked the alcohol industry Monday to pull television ads that use cartoon characters, bikini-clad women at beach parties and other such images that she says target underage drinkers. 
Industry representatives de­fended their companies' ads. They said they will discuss teen­age drinking with Novello, but have no plans to halt any of their ads. 
Hep. Joe Kennedy, D-Mass., who is sponsoring legislation to rtlquiro that alcohol advertising carry health and safety warn­ings, said it was"naive" to be­lieve the industry will aet volun­tarily. 
While Novello said she prefers voluntarily action -executives, she said, "will know what to do" -she added that she would seek stronger action if the industry does not comply. 
Novello did not say what that action might be. 
Most of her criticism was di­rected at ads that portray beer drinking as part of a sexy and glamorous lifestyle of attractive young people that includes beach parties and active sports like skiing and surfing. The ads imply that drinking builds con­fidence, she said. 
"The constant pounding of messages about drinking widens the opportunity for kids to believe it is OK to do it and most important that it is safe to do it," the surgeon general said. 
Novello, who has been cam­paigning against teen-age drinking, said she wants the beer and wine industries to re­move any ad that appeals to youth, "especially (ads) that have music that appeals to them and anything that has cartoons." 
Liquor products are not ad­vertised on TV. 
She has invited the top execu­tives of major brewers, vintners and distillers to meet with her Dec. 11 to discuss her criticism of their advertising. 
A spokesman for the Beer In­stitute, Jeffrey Becker, said in­dustry leaders are willing to meet with Novello to discuss underage drinking, but added that "I don't think you're going 
to see the end of the lifestyle 1 "":~::~~.:2·~. ads." "There is a middle ground," he said, adding, "I don't know n::i'li:>Uli"'::~>JAr\hnl.Jn·tj11fitli' 
what that is." 
John De Luca, president of the Wine Institute, said his in­dustry's voluntary advertising code does not condone the use of athletes, rock stars or "anything that targets underage drinking." 
Novello also released an in­spector general's report which concludes that federal regula­tion of the alcohol industry is fragmented, that enforcement authority is limited and that al­cohol industry standards do not effectively restrict ads that ap­
peal to youth. 
~,;,;.;;.;.;;.;.,;.;;;;;,;;;;;.;;.;;,;;~;,;.;;;.;.;:.;.;;;;;,;;"'!!"'~..J 
Become aStudent Cardmember today and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
Only the American Express* Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more. 
just look at the map and pick the place you'd like to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use acertificate leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
By becoming aStudent Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express* Student Privileges~ Program. Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year-absolutely free. And that's just one example of how the Card can help you save. 
For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply. just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again.
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the 
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri­
Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the 
tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime­• Minneapolis/St. Paul, Sl. Louis and Nt'W Orleans art considered cities eas1 of I he M1ssiss1pp1 River •• Acredit of up 10 13-70 for calls wJII ap~ar on each billing stateme-nt for 12 mon1hs ahe-r enroll
because there are no blackout dates. But you must mem. 13.70 is equalw 1he charges for a domeSlic 30·minule nighl/weekend MCI card Cornpall
make your reservations within 14 days of the day you bilily call and appropr(al< surcharges You muSl enroll for !his service by Decemher 31, 1991 

TRAVEL RElATED 

SERVICES Continental




CALL 1-800-942-AMEX 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriuing soon
Mc1


------~-~-·-----~-·--­
page4 The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Pilot succumbs to cold before rescue 
TORONTO (AP) -Twelve hours before help arrived, the pilot of a military supply plane that crashed in the high Arctic succumbed to the brutal cold after he insisted that an injured survivor wear his jacket. 
Capt. John Couch was alive and unhurt after the C-130 Hercules transport plane crashed Wednesday onto the tundra 12 miles short of Alert, Northwest Territories, a secret military base at the top of the world. 
But after working frantically for hours in 8 below zero tem­peratures and bitter winds to tend the 13 other survivors, 

Rape 
continued from page 1 
orders, eating disorders and self-blame are common, ac­cording to Eslinger. The chances of becoming pregnant are believed to be less than one percent. For rape victims, they often feel like their privacy has been ripped away from them, she said, and they may even change their home residence. 
The police department's pri­mary concerns, according to Werntz, are frrst to look out for the victim's interest. They must next collect evidence and help prepare a case for the prosecuting office, she said. 
It is crucial that they prove three elements for the state of Indiana to consider the assault a rape, said Werntz. It must be vaginal rape and performed with a lack of consent. They must also try to get the identity of the suspect quickly, said 
Code 
continued from page 1 
scribe to the whole process,"' including the judicial process 
and penalties, he said. 
'Sepeta likened the honor code pledge to the Pledge of Allegiance. "It's an affirma­tion.. .it doesn't have to be paradoxical for a person who believes in it," he said. 
Some students criticize the penalties the code outlines. But "the penalties have been around forever," Sepeta said, and "there would be those decisions whether we had an honor code or not." 
Sepeta advocates some changes in the policy. For ex­ample, take-home test proce­dure should mimic homework procedure, he said. If students are permitted to collaborate on homework, he explained, they might be more inclined to work together on take-home tests, regardless of instructions. 
The discrepancy over proc­toring must be cleared up, Sepeta said. Some students are offended if a professor passes out different colored tests or tells them to sit a couple of desks apart, he said, "but we just acknowledge that as hu­man beings you get tempted." 
In turn, some professors think they are obligated to leave the room during a test, Sepeta said. As he interprets the code, professors "can stay in the room, can pace the room once ... and if they see blatant cheating, they have to report it." 
Some professors think they are not permitted to be in the classroom during a test, Sepeta said, so they pretend they are not there, ignoring any cheat­ing that goes on. 
Couch, 32, lay down to sleep outside the wreckage wearing only a light jacket. He never woke up. 
The leader of the search and rescue team, Warrant Officer Fred Ritchie, told reporters in Edmonton, Alberta, "He never rested. He was like a mother to them all out there." 
Four others also died. 
Lt. Joseph Bales, the co-pilot, said the crew had parkas but weren't wearing them while op­erating the aircraft. The crew jumped out on impact and the cockpit exploded. The cause of the crash wasn't known. 
The crash trail was a mile 
long, with survival gear strewn over the snowy terrain. 
"Everything was pitch black," Bales said in an interview with the Toronto Globe and Mail. "We were running around for the first few hours. It was ter­rible. Just the combination of cold and dar~. We were carry­ing bodies and just sweating profusely." 
No one was killed outright, but "four people died within the first hour of severe injuries that basic first-aid techniques couldn't look after," the co-pilot said. 
The QbserverfTim Farish

Seeking inspiration 

A statue in the Ivan Mestrocoic Memorial appears to be seeking in­spiration and words of wisdom from above. 
opera e s as a 
From a legal standpoint, the victim's statement, he said. state of Indiana defmes rape as, Injuries help convince the "A person who knowingly has jurors of a defendant's guilt as sexual intercourse with a does a statement from the de­member of the opposite sex and fendant. that other person is held by The program about rape is­force," said Marnocha. sues was presented at Indiana 
The prosecutors look for some University at South Bend in key points in a rape case, said conjunction with Rape Marnocha. They need co-Awareness Week. 
DON'T GET AJOB NEXT SUMMER 

GET A BUSINESS 
College Pro will be recruiting on Campus this week. 
Information session this evening in Haggar rm. 117 at 7p.m. 

3THINGS 




TO CONSIDER 
BEFORE BUYING 
ACOMPUTER 

IN YOUR 
FRES 

YEAR. 
. .. 1-.',.' ••• ' 


The Observer 

Tuesday, November 5, 1991 page 5 
The Observermm Farish 
Cut that out 
Senior Nate Fitzgerald edits a video he has been working on for his video production class. 
Two Kuwaiti wells capped; crews battle final two fires 
RAWDATEIN, Kuwait (AP)­Firefighters capped two gush­ing oil wells Monday and bat­tled flames at the final stubborn pair of the 640 wells set ablaze by the Iraqis during their occupation of Kuwait. 
They hoped to finish them ofT before Wednesday's planned ceremony marking the end of the firefighting effort. 
The snuffing of the final fire will mark a surprisingly quick end to an environmental and industrial disaster. Iraqi forces damaged a total of 732 of Kuwait's 940 producing wells, most during their February re­treat under allied bombard­ment after a seven-month oc­cupation of Kuwait. 
Smoke from the fires polluted the air, black rain was reported as far away as Bulgaria and Kuwait's desert remains marred by soot and oil lakes. 
Nevertheless, scientists say predictions of a global catas­trophe have not come to pass. 
The Kuwaitis estimated that the destruction cost their oil industry $43 billion, though of­ficials said two weeks ago they expected the figure to be lower because of the rapid progress. 
Kuwaiti oil officials at first thought it would take until March to extinguish and cap all the damaged wells. 
But a rapid increase in the number of firefighting teams, greater availability of equip­ment, more plentiful water supplies and quickly gained ex­perience sped-up the campaign. 
On Monday, crews capped two two wells in the Rawdatein and Burgan fields which had been extinguished earlier. 
The troublesome blazes are in the Rawdatein and Sabriyya oil fields, north of Kuwait City. 
Notre Dame Orchestra set to perform fall concert 
Antonio Vivaldi's "Concerto in F Symphony Orchestra in Lake Plymouth, N.H., later serving as ceived his bachelor of arts de­
Special to The Observer 
Major for Three Violins" and Forest, Ill., and chamber music director of the Lakes gree at Nanjing College of Arts. Symphony no. 3 in A minor, orchestra conductor at the Region Symphony Orchestra He has studied the violin for 17 
The University of Notre Dame "Scottish," by . Felix University of Chicago. and the New Hampshire Music years and is now a first-year Orehestra will perform their fall Mendelssohn-Bartholdy. Bordo earned his bachelor's Festival Orchestra. graduate student at Notre eoncert on Thursday, Nov. 6, at Bordo recently completed his and master's degrees in music Laliberte is a second-year Dame. 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The doctorate in orchestral con­at the University of Michigan. graduate student in music per­concert. sponsored by the ducting at Northwestern He has studied conducting with formance at Notre Dame. She Rambukwelle is also a first­University's music department, University. After his debut con­Gustav Meier of Tanglewood began playing the violin at age year graduate student at the is fren and open to the public. cert at the 1988 Arts Jubilee Music Center, assistant conduc­12 in Duluths, Minn., and University working on his mas­
Conductor Guy Victor Bordo Festival in North Conway, N.H., tor Carl St. Clair of the Boston earned her bachelor's degree in ter of music degree. He is from will lead the orchestra with he served as music director for Symphony Orchestra and fine arts at State University of Sri Lanka where he began graduate students Michelle the New England Symphony presently with Victor Yampolsky New York at Purchase. She studying violin at the age of 10. Laliberte, Yi Xu and Kavan Orchestra. Bordo is currently at Northwestern University. plans to study violin abroad He received his bachelor of fine Hambukwelln as violin soloists orchestra conductor at Notre From 1983 to 1988, he was next fall. arts degree from State performing Gabriel Faure's Dame as well as resident con­an assistant professor of music Xu is from the People's University of New York at "Pelleas and Melisande Suite, ductor of the North Suburban at Plymouth State College in Republic of China where he re-. Purchase. 
We'd like to suggest that you give your NeX'Iscations are moving not only inw put your NeXTscation to work first and read In fact, your NeXTstation can switch compmcr the same carL·fnl consideration teaching labs bm imo dorm rooms as well. the instruction manual later. ciTonlessly among any of over IIXJ NeXT that you give your major. With a minimum of!'! MB of memory Just don't be misled by our simplicity. applications. Revolutionary appli<:ations More, actually. and 105MB of hard disk storage standard, Behind that comfortably inmitive graphi­like Lotus'" lmprovm, Adobe'"lllustrator~, After all, it typically doesn't cost a couple you'll be haru prc:sseu w n111 ..ut of room fur o.:al imerfacc resides the full power of \Vordl'crtl:<:t\ 'lbpDraw•, anu S10 i!J'C ·. ~:.::sand dollars to Sll IH~h YOUR all your accumulated knowledge. YOUR UNIX'", the ope.rating system AND 110UR Software you can put to . J . So keep SOPHOMORE YEAR And with a JUNIOR YEAR. of chmce among I~ work on your school m mmd that the • Motorola scientists, re-SENIOR YEAR. work today. bargain computer that \\;urks just fine for 68040 processor, that clocks in at a fulllS searchers and business professionals. And for many days thereafter. freshman English may seem a bit MIPS, you won't find your NeXTscation Unlike personal computer operating sys-So visit your local campus computer rc­lightweight when you'rc,: knee-deep in slowing down at the precise moment your tems,like MS-008-, with UNIX you can seller for a NeXTscation demons~t­statistics. Or engineering equations. Or workload is picking up. print a term paper, evaluate a complex tion. And get an idea just how ~ research projects. What's more, it won't cake four years to spreadsheett and graph your latest lab re-exciting the next four years arc Which may explain why more and more learn' to use one. Don't be surprised if you suits, all at full speed. All at the same time. going to be. ®  

,...-----------­
-
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Five U.S. presidents gather at Reagan library opening 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) ­Ronald Reagan opened his presidential library Monday and invited the world to "come and learn from it." He was joined by President Bush and their three predecessors in the first gathering ever of five U.S. chief executives. 
Eleven years to the day since he was elected president, the 80-year-old Reagan joined Bush, Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon at the hilltop library under brilliant, windswept skies. A band played "Hail to the Chief' as they took the stage. Air Force F-16s flew over. 
"The doors of this library are open now and all are welcome," Reagan told a crowd of 4,200 invited guests. "The judgment of history is left to you, the people. I have no fears of that. We have done our best. And so I say, 'Come and learn from it."' 
In addition to the presidents and their wives, Lady Bird Johnson and her daughter rep­resented the late Lyndon Johnson, and John Kennedy Jr. and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg were there for their late father, John Kennedy. There were also relatives of President Franklin Roosevelt. 
Reagan's fellow chief execu­tives took turns at the micro­phone, praising him and looking back on the challenges of their own administrations. 
Bush, who was Reagan's vice president, called him his men­tor and hailed him as "an American original ... a vision­ary, a crusader and a prophet in his time." 
"Ronald Reagan predicted that communism would land in the dustbin of history and his­tory proved him right," said Bush. Reagan's defense buildup "paid off for every American" in the Gulf War, he said. 
"He was the great communi­cator and also the great libera­tor," the 41st president said of the 40th. "No leader since Churchill used words so effec­tively to help freedom unchain our world." 
Nixon said Reagan would be remembered as a president who believed in freedom and democracy and who "restored America's military might." 
Ford said Reagan was a leader who was "able to articu­late the highest hopes and deepest beliefs of the American people.". 
Even Carter, who hurried back from election-monitoring in Zambia to attend the dedica­tion, had kind words for the man who ruined his reelection hopes. Under Reagan, Carter said, "our nation stood strong and resolute and made possible the beginning of the end of the Cold War." 
Carter, the only Democrat of the five, jokingly alluded to Republican presidential domi­nance in the last quarter-cen­tury. 
"I have one concern, and that is that the Republican represen­tation has four times as much time on the program as the Democratic," Carter said to laughs from the largely GOP crowd. "You all have another advantage over me. At least all of you have met a Democratic president. I've never had that honor yet." 
Bush said he felt badly about that but asked that voters "please don't do anything" about it. 
Reagan's tone was sentimen­tal, but no more so than at many times while he was presi­dent. 
"At one time or another I've run against most of these gentlemen and they've run against me," he said. "And yet here we are. It just goes to show that above personal ide­ologies and party politics, we stand united as Americans." 
Reagan said, "I have been de­scribed as an undying optimist. It's true. I always see the sunny side of life." 
Citing the collapse of com­munism, Reagan said, "I have seen the world turned upside down and conventional wisdom utterly disproved. Visitors to this mountaintop will see great jagged chunk of the Berlin Wall, hated symbol of, yes, an evil empire." 
"Today that wall exists only in museums, souvenir collections and the memories of a people no longer oppressed," he said. 
Also on hand for the were former administration officials 
J Watt, Caspar Weinberger, Michael Deaver and Bush's sec­
Locatlon:Simi Valley, so miles northwestofLos Angeles. COst: $10 million in private donations: $$6million for building, $14 millionfoi"100 acres of land. ­
Size: 150,000 square feet. California Mission-style building has four floors and houses the National Archives and the Ronald Reagan Foundation offices. 
What's There: 47 million documents, including 6.3 million pages of White House documents available to researchers; 1.6 million photographs; 87,750 feet of motion picture film; 20,000 videotapes; 22,000 audio tapes; 75,000 museum objects; 15,000 books; extensive White House gift collection; displays on Reagan's life and the Reagan presidency. 
Points of Interest: A full-sized replica of the Oval Office, and a three-ton chunk of the Berlin Wall. 
Admission: $2 adults; kids free. 
Staff: The National Archives will have 25 full-time staff members to operate the library at $1.1 to $1.5 million a year. 

Who's Attending: Slated to attend Monday's dedication are Reagan, President Bush and former presidents Carter, Ford and Nixon; Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney; Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro; Jihan Sadat, widow of slain Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. 
retary of state, James Baker.-~--....,~----~----.;..~----------..1 
president. APIAian Baseden 
Another election is just a year away, and Democrats saw Bush's attendance as an oppor­tunity to criticize him for a heavy travel schedule and what they contend is inattention to domestic problems. 
just back from the Mideast peace talks in Madrid, Spain. 
In keeping with Reagan's show-business background, the audience also included such Hollywood stars as Bob Hope, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Merv Griffin and Charlton Heston. 
In the latest reading on Reagan's standing, nearly three years after he left the White House, a Los Angeles Times poll pub1ished Monday suggested that people who gave Reagan landslide victories are divided on his legacy, and many consider him only an average 

formation gathered thus far, Student Body President Joseph study of the honor code since it and the second will make spe­Blanco. The committee will will be reviewed by the

Senate 
cific recommendations. study the whole constitution Academic Council in February. and make recommendations to Since the Senate represents the
continued from page 1 
The Senate also discussed the the senate. student body, Blanco concluded action concerns and strictly formation of committees to it should make its opiniondefining what groups are con­study its constitution and the Blanco also recommended a known. 
sidered minorities in specific si­honor code. tuations, he added. 
Being a Marine Corps Officer can open the door to opponu­each paying more than $1,300
The constitution has been 
The task force will submit two . nities you may have thought were beyond your reach. It • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn
changed in bits and pieces over 
-helped Marine Officer Charles Bolden become a NASA astro-more than $2,200
reports to Malloy, Warner said. the past two. and a half years so 
-naut. And if you·re willing to make the commitment, it could • Free civilian flying lessons
The first, due January 15, will that it is repetitive and con­
· help you also. You can get started while you're in coUege 
• Aslar1ing salary of more than $22,000
be a general report of in­tradictory in places, said 
with our undergraduate officer com­-missioning program. You could take advantage of getting: 
• $I00 a month while in school 
_ • Freshmen and Sophomores train -during two six-week summer sessions 

__TEL 
AN OLD TAlE NEWlY ToLD BY GlENN AlLAN SMITH DIRECTED BY RoBERTA N. RuoE 
THURS., FRL, Nov. 14, 1s BP.M. SAT. Nov. 16, 11A.M. &2:30P.M. SuN. Nov. 17, 2:30P.M. 
Hewantp

togoas.tar 
Please support 
+
Anleru.:an 
R~·d CroRH 

Immediately upon graduation you could become a Marine ~_ Officer. It's your choice. _ : Maybe you're the kind of _ man we're looking for. -
Tbe F-. Tbe Proud. Tbe MRrines. 

Capt. Tom O'Connell will be at the Lafortune Center, Ohara Lounge from 10:00-2:00 tomorrow, Wednesday the 6th. Stop by 

WIN FREE PIZZA! 
ORDER THIS WEEK AND YOU'RE REGISTERED TO WIN A FREE PIZZA EVERYDAY FOR THE REST OF THE SEMESTER! THE SIZE YOU ORDER IS THE SIZE PIZZA YOU MAY WIN. 




r---------------,
I 16" PARTY SIZE I 
I I 

I ONE TOPPING PIZZA I 
I 
I 

I $6.99 I 
I I 
Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participatin_g stores only.I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valtd wtlh_ B!IY I1 olher offer. Limited delivery area to ensure safe dnvmg. I 

NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
r--~~----------• 
271-0300 289-0033 I 14" LARGE I 
I

1835 SOUTH BEND AVE. 816 PORTAGE AVE. 


ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
I I 

I a~ $5.99 :
I mm~ I 

Offer expires 12/31/91. Valid at participatin_g stores only. 1I Customer pays applicable sales tax. Not valtd wtlh. a!lyL olher offer. Limned delivery area to ensure safe dnvmg. -:


NOBODY 
r--------------1

1 12" MEDIUM

KNOWS 
: ONE TOPPING PIZZA :
LIKE 
: Ill $4.99 :
®DOMINO'S.m 
I v . . . . I
Offer expires 12/31/91. altd at paruCJpaUn_g stores on y. II Customer pays appiicabl_e sales tax. Not vahd with_ a!ly L olher offer. Limtted delivery area to ensure safe dnVIng.
HowYou Like Pizza At Home. .J 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer 

Cleaning up 
Linda Edwards, who works for ND University Food Services, washes pan after pan during her shift at the North Dining Hall. Edwards is one of the many hard workers employed in NO's food service. 
Army delayed notification of soldiers' kin 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Army delayed for months noti­fying relatives of soldiers killed by friendly fire in the Persian Gulf War, The Washington Post reported in Tuesday editions. 
The newspaper said the Army broke its own rules by not im­mediately providing families with full information on how their stlrvicemen died as soon as it was known. But an Army official said it was necessary to deviate from regulations if prudence demanded it. 
The Post said initial Army re­ports from the Persian Gulf listed "enemy" as the source of fire in all but two of the ser­
page 7 

ROTC places second in Ohio Ranger Challenge 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Could you march 10 kilome­ters carrying thirty pounds of gear and wearing combat boots? 
Would you want to? 
1\velve cadets from the Notre Dame Army ROTC program did this weekend in under an hour's time to gain a first place finish in this event and a second place finish overall as they competed in the ROTC Ranger Challenge in Akron, Ohio. 
The team competed against eighteen colleges from Indiana and Ohio, and their second place finish enables them to move on to the regional compe­tition in Fort Knox, Kentucky at the end of the month, said Public Affairs Officer Laura Gritz. 
The Challenge consisted of eight events including a physi­cal fitness test, in which the Notre Dame team also placed first, weapons assembly, and orienteering. It is both physi­cally and mentally grueling be­cause the cadets are continu­ously challenged the entire three days of the competition, said Gritz. 
All members of Notre Dame's team are volunteers, and they are led by Cadet/Lieutenant Colonel Greg Hendry, said Gritz. Other team members are senior Jim Grogan, juniors Tim Provich, Greg Wessels and Joe Turbyville, sophomores Andy Scarcella, Joe Reardon, Brian O'Meara, Mike Deperro, and Darrell Driver, and freshmen Greg Cannata and Jed Hardings. 

The Ranger team has tradi­tionally been a small group "because it is probably the most challenging activity," said Gritz. The Notre Dame team has also traditionally been extremely competitive and has won three state championships in recent years, she added. 
Team members practice twice a day, five days a week, said Hendry. Physical training is done in the mornings, and practical skills are practiced in the afternoons, he added. Gritz is not surprised the team did well because they are a "very hard working, extremely dedicated group," she said. 
Hendry expects the Challenge team to be competitive in the regionals, and he noted the ex­perience gained by the young team. "As everyone gains expe­rience it will benefit the whole squad," he said. 
Hendry has competed in the Challenge for four years, and he notes that it has contributed to his own personal development. 
"It helps in a lot of ways," he said. "Ways to test your limits and gain confidence-and to experience the thrill of accom­plishing something." 
vice's 21 fatal cases of friendly fire. In 11 cases, it said, there was strong, immediate evidence that U.S. forces had inflicted losses on themselves. 
The newspaper said it based its findings on military docu­ments obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. 
It said that in 33 of the 35 cases of death by friendly fire in the war, Army and Marine commanders knew the cause by the end of March. All but one of the families, however, had to wait until August for official acknowledgment, the newspa­per reported. 
Army regulation 600-8-1 re­quires the service to make im­mediate and full disclosure of friendly fire to next of kin. The Post asserted the Army dis­obeyed its own regulation. 
It quoted Lt. Gen. William Reno, deputy chief of staff for personnel, as saying: "I am obliged to comply with my own regs, but I am also obliged to deviate from them, informally in many cases, where it's prudent to do so." 
"Every decision we made with respect to notification of fami­lies was made with the motive of care and compassion for the families," he said. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1991 


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Say ah 
Nurse Rita Garvey takes junior Rob McBride's temperature at the Student Health Center to see if he has a stomach virus. With the current cold weather, students need to be extra careful to keep warm and stay healthy to avoid catching colds and flus that tend to spread quickly on college campuses. 
Mideast delegates have mixed feelings 
MADRID, Spain (AP) -Arabs and Israelis went home Monday with mixed feelings of frustra­tion and anticipation after an intense foray into the realm of peace. Israel and Syria were mired in recriminations, but promised to meet again. 
Few concrete achievements resulted from last week's three­day Middle East conference and the three sets of direct Israeli­Arab talks that ended early Monday with a bitter Israeli­Syrian session. 
But the talks smashed a 43­year taboo on direct Israeli­Arab talks, setting in motion a process of face-to-face negotia­tions to resolve one of the most intractable regional conflicts in the world. 
The United States and Soviet Union sponsored the talks, and President Bush's assessment was: "We have a long way to go and interruptions will probably occur, but hopes are bright." 
The brightest are for negoti­ations between Israel and the 
1.7 million Palestinians living under its military rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The dimmest are for a thaw be­tween Israel and Syria, the re­gion's strongest military pow­ers, and most bitter foes. 
"I would like to express our regret for leaving this city without having tangible re­sults," said Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa. 
In a reminder of how relent­less the conflict is, hard-line Israelis inaugurated a new Jewish settlement in the Golan Heights just hours after the talks ended. Syria's main de­mand is for the return of the Golan Heights, captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war. 
There were also reports that Israeli troops shelled the posi­tions of radical Muslim guerril­las in Lebanon. 
In the Iranian capital of Tehran, Shiite Muslim demon­strators burned American and Israeli flags and an effigy of Uncle Sam outside the former 
U.S. Embassy compound to mark its takeover 13 years ago by Iranian radicals. 
The late-night talks in Madrid were the first-ever direct dis­cussion between Israel and Syria and they lasted five hours, into the early hours on Monday. But the enemies failed to move even an inch from their positions, or even shake hands. Even coffee breaks were taken in separate rooms. 
Syria refused an Israeli re­quest to establish direct con­tacts to arrange the site for the next round of talks, scheduled later this month. 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 






MIRACLE 
WORKER 
BYWJLLIAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Nonetheless, both agreed to meet again -if the United States comes up with an ac­ceptable location. Officials on both sides said Washington or other sites in North America were possible. 
An Israeli spokesman said Monday that Israel would still prefer that the talks be held al­ternately in Israel and Syria, or along their border. But Syria remained just as adamantly in favor of a neutral site and ac­cused Israel of being intransi­gent. 
According to both sides, it was a dialogue of the deaf. 
Israel's delegates "talked about everything except the land that the Israelis occupied and have been occupying for the last 24 years. That is the Golan Heights," al-Sharaa said. 
Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global investment banking flnn headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its financial analyst program. This two-year program offers individuals, from a broad range ofacademic backgrounds, unique insights into the investment banking industry. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representatives for an introduction to the firm and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 The University Club The Main Lounge 6:00p.m. 
Interview Date: ­February 4, 1992 

For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Betsy Joseph Investment Banking (312) 750-3094 
The First Boston Corporation Park Avenue Plaza New York, N.Y. 10055 

Serbians unleash tank, artillery fire on Croatians 
DUBROVNIK, Yugoslavia (AP) -The Serb-dominated army unleashed tank, artillery and howitzer fire on three Croatian warfronts Monday, and Serbia rejected a European plan to end the fighting. 
On the eve of the European Community's latest deadline, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic's Socialist Party claimed the proposal violated international law and rejected it. The rejection risked interna­tional sanctions on Serbia. 
Milosevic is the only one of six Yugoslav republic leaders to reject the plan calling for recognition of all republics in their existing borders and an extensive program to protect minority rights. He claims it would mean the total disman­tling of Yugoslavia. 
Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek, leading a meet­ing of European Community colleagues in Belgium, indicated renewed army attacks made sanctions virtually certain. 
The EC's special envoy, Lord Carrington, said he would meet with army leaders and defense chiefs of rivals Serbia and Croatia at talks in The Hague. 
"I am going to do what I can to bang their heads together, but it is frightfully hard going," he told the BBC. 
The army pounded Croatian forces in the Adriatic town of Dubrovnik, the central city of Karlovac about 25 miles from the capital Zagreb, and the eastern stronghold of Vukovar. 
Fighting raged as close as 200 yards from Vukovar's city center, where the Croats have dug in, the Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported. 
Federal gunners, apparently aiming at Croatian mortar po­sitions, sent tracer-lit artillery shells whistling over Dubrovnik's historic old town. 

Shelling lasted about 2 1/2 hours. Two people were re­ported killed and four wounded. One of the dead and one of the wounded were Croatian defenders. 
After the shelling, civilians came out of their cellars. Some ran down the streets, keeping close to the city's medieval walls. 
Artillery shells apparently were fired from army positions at Zarkovica less than a mile and a half southeast of the city. Croats returned fire with mor­tars. 
On the eastern Croatian front, Gen. Mladen Bratic, the commander of the Novi Sad, northern Vojvodina, army corps, was killed in action, Bel­grade TV reported. 
Carrington said there was blame on both sides for the Serb-Croat conflict that has cost well over 1,000 lives since Croatia declared independence on June 25. The Croats have said 5,000 people have died. 
But he said there was no rea­son to attack Dubrovnik. 
"There are no Serbs in Dubrovnik," he said. "It's never been part of Serbia, it's always been Croatia and the attack on Dubrovnik is absolutely unwar­ranted." 
Carrington said he doubted that threatened economic sanctions would be very effec­tive. "You'd have to put it probably on the whole of Yu­goslavia, and that I think takes rather a long time to operate," he said. 
"We don't really have the weapons with which we can stop this," he added. "I can't see that the European Commu­nity would be very likely to in­tervene militarily." 
~~,~~~~ 
. . . . . 


Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 9 
House votes against FDIC bailout 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House on Monday overwhelm­ingly defeated legislation de­signed to rescue the nearly in­solvent Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and provide new business opportunities for ttHl nation's struggling com­mnrdal banks. 
The 324-89 vote sent law­makers searching for a more acceptable paekage. 
One available possibility was a narrowly drawn bill already introdueed which would replen­ish the FDIC and make a few rngulatory changes that have gmwratnd littln controversy. 
Before adjourning for the ynar, Congrnss must provide morn funds for the FDIC or h~avf~ the agency in danger of bning unable to protect 110 million depositors. 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called on the House to "now craft new comprehensive legislation to address the real problems of the banking system ... including an appropriate balancing of interests between the insuranee, securities and banking industries." 
"A narrow recapitalization of the bank insurance fund will only delay the day of reckon­ing." he said. 
But Democrats most involved in crafting the bill said they saw little chance of passing anything more than the nar­rowly drawn bill, given the level of controversy and scant few weeks left before adjournment. 
The Senate planned to start debating its version of the banking bill this week. The House and Senate versions then could be melded in a conference committee later, still allowing Congress in the end to send the president broad banking legislation despite Monday's defeat. 
The Bush administration, which objected to changes in the bill made at the urging of Democratic leaders, cam­paigned to defeat the House measure. It was joined by Democrats opposed to restric­tions the package would have placed on bankers. 
The nation's largest banks lobbied hard against the mea­sure which took nine months to draft and was under debate on the House floor for three days. 
Majority Leader Richard 
Gephardt, 0-Mo.. pleaded for passage of the measure, urging lawmakers to forget about the lobbyists. 
"We hear a lot about what this lobby wants and what that lobby wants," Gephardt said. " ... Let's forget about the lob­bies and start worrying about what's good for the American people and the American tax­payers for a change." 
But, 170 Democrats joined 153 Republicans and one inde­pendent in defeating the bill. Voting yes were 83 Democrats and six Republicans. 
In addition to increasing the taxpayer-backed borrowing authority of the FDIC, the bill would have permitted banks to expand freely across state lines for the first time since 1927 and enter the securities business, although under tight re­strictions, for the first time since 1933 . 
Both the narrow and broad bills would give regulators new power to crack down on weak banks and forbid most bailouts covering deposits over the $1 00,000-per-account federal insurance limit. 

Huge, metal equipment has been strategically placed on God Quad to blow away the remaining fallen autumn leaves. 


Campus Ministry••• 

OFFIGOF 0MPUS

•••considerations 
MINISTRY 

Formation for Life 
of community. Our students need to spend more time and 
Sometimes I get the impression that the goal of our Notre Dame education and of all our student affairs policies is to provide our students with four nice years -peaceful, useful, and fun -that will be remembered with gratitude and nostalgia, and hence, bind our alums into the ever-growing network of responsible American citizens who wear Notre Dame T-shirts while they jog. 
With a heavy commitment to dormitory systems where there are a lot of rules and plenty of control, and with a student body that has a strong sense of its need to work very hard to conquer an excess of material, our atmosphere can sometimes feel like it hardly gives anyone time to look up and see what kind of person they are becoming. Our worst stereotype is of a student life that looks like five nights of compulsive study, followed by two nights of compulsive drinking -no integration, no balance. A more pleasant image is of people just getting by, doing what they're told to stay out of trouble -being nice. 
The hassle is really not the students, its the grownups. We haven't made it clear enough what we think is important. We allow folks to move through four nice years, maybe working too hard, maybe not, but without the challenge and help to clearly enough articulate what values they will live for and build a life around after graduation. 
The Center for Social Concerns tries, Campus Ministry tries, Notre Dame Encounter does some of it, the rectors and dorm staffs do a lot. Still I wonder if our students hear a clear message and a clear call. 
Inquiry, belief, community -these are the markers of our self-Image. But where do we do it? How do we practice Integrating these things together? When do we help each other to $et up patterns that will carry into our future life? What are the values that must be embraced if our self-description Is to be valid In the real world? 
What I think we really need are more creative experiences energy together searching for what it would mean to be an adult and a Christian in the modern world. Our 'grownups' need to examine their lives more closely and see if our witness of daily life is truly an invitation to our students to see the world in a new way and to live with new hopes, or are we just quietly passing along the common, pedestrian values of our culture? 
We need to figure it out together. We need to talk more and more about what is more important. We need to call one another to the most satisfying and sustaining values of life, for example-fidelity, simplicity, and wonder. 
Notre Dame is a great place to be, to study, to make friends, to pray, to discover new talents. But in the end, it is not a place set up to help people just have four nice years. It is about formation for life. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 

WEEKEND UTURGY SCHEDULE SACRED HEART CHURCH 
ovember9 aturday -5:00 pm-Fr. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. 
ovember 10 unday -8:00 am-Fr. George Wiskirchen, 
c.s.c. 

10:00 am-Fr. William Beauchamp, 

c.s.c. 

11:45 am-Fr. DanielJenky, C.S.C. 

. 
---------~-------­





Viewpoint 
Page 10 




Tuesday, November 5, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ...••••.•.•..••...Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ...•.••..•..... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .••••..•••.......... John O'Brien Systems Manager •.•..•..•....... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..........• Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Eniily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lecture will articulate Church's teaching on homosexuality 
Dear Editor: nature (Professor Paul Gebhard, 
posed to the homosexual group, Courage, and the author 
One of the important issues "Historical and Cross-Cultural lifestyle, perhaps many feel they of one major study, "The that has arisen recently in the Perspectives on do not adequately understand Homosexual Person: New Notre Dame community is that Homosexuality," Oct. 9), nor the reason for the Church's Thinking in Pastoral Care" of our attitude toward and contrary to anything in the Old teaching on this matter. (Ignatius Press, 1987 ) and over treatment of persons with a Testament, nor the teaching of They might have a difficult 40 scholarly articles on the homosexual orientation. St. Paul in the New Testament, time articulating and justifying subject. 
Last year a number of de­nor the mind of Christ (Mohr this traditional tenet of Catholic As a further means to foster­partments in the university and and Douce). morals. Father Harvey proposes ing discussion of this issue, on several campus organizations One lecture urged that the to do precisely this: To explain Wednesday evening of this sponsored a five-part lecture Catholic Church and her the Church's teaching on week, Nov. 6, in the Galvin Life series on homosexuality "to ministers foster monogamous homosexuality and to do so by Science Auditorium, we will be promote a better understanding (i.e. and genital) relationships locating it within the broader sponsoring a debate on the of the psycho-social, religious, among persons who are of an context of the teachings of issue of whether this university' cultural, philosophical, and irreversible homosexual Christ, Scripture, and the s non-recognition of a historical aspects of orientation and not called to tradition on the nature of homosexual student homosexuality and lesbian and celibacy for the kingdom of God sexuality itself. organization is inconsistent gay people," as it was (Reverend Richard J. It clearly does not follow that with her mission as a Catholic advertised. McCormick, S.J., "Perspectives sues the day on this campus, if one is opposed to the homo­university. 
It seemed as if the invited on Homosexuality and the we at the Graduate Student sexual lifestyle on Christian Professor Lawrence Bradley speakers, from the perspective Church," Oct. 30). Union Intellectual Life and ethical grounds that one is of the Management Department of five academic disciplines The perception by a number Committee and the Student thereby homophobic. Certainly will be arguing the affirmative (anthropology, philosophy, the­of members of the Notre Dame Union Board Ideas and Issues no one can accuse Father side of this question, Professor ology, communication, and psy­community was that this lecture Commission are sponsoring two Harvey of homophobia . Having Ralph Mcinerny of the chology), presented only one series was flawed by its events of interest this week. been involved in the pastoral Philosophy Department will be point of view. imbalance. It was one-sided, This evening, Nov. 5 in the care of homosexual men and arguing the negative. All are in­
Several of the lectures were expressing only positions Hayes-Healy auditorium, we women for over 35 years, it is vited to attend and participate outright advocacy of the homo­conflicting with the centuries­will be sponsoring a lecture en­doubtful whether there is a in this event: There will be a sexual lifestyle (Professor olf position of the teaching titled "The Homosexual Person member of the Roman Catholic question and answer sequence Richard Mohr, "Ethical authority of the Roman Catholic and Catholic Moral Teaching" Church in the United States who to follow. Perspectives on Church on the question of by Reverend John Harvey, 0. S . has more experience with and Thomas D'Andrea Homosexuality," Oct. 16; Dr. homosexual orientation and F. S . While perhaps most of the sympathy for the difficulties and G.S.U. Intellectual Life Louise Douce, "Homosexuality: homosexual acts. members of the Notre Dame struggles of the homosexual Patrick H. Smyth A Psychologist's Perspective," Sensitive to this perceived im­community are as Roman person than he. S.U.B. Nov. 13): others argued that balance, and acting in accord Catholics faithful to long­Father Harvey is the founder Ideas and Issues Commission homosexuality is not against with our purpose of fostering standing Church teaching, op-of the homosexual support Nov. 3; 1991 
Reader claims referees, 'Phantom II' helped ND to victory 
Dear Editor: "controversial" call by the ref­won at all. an errant call. Can't we be as in South Bend, they don't give
The Observer's football re­eree. It was errant. USC Ten years ago in the candid as the press in southern Regis Philbin's three reasons: porters need to be more objec­should have gotten the ball on Coliseum, USC beat Notre Dame California and boldly call this our coach, our team, and our tive and critical. Why don't the 20. Instead, Notre Dame by virtue of a referee error. touchdown "Phantom II"? fans. 
they declare what television got seven points. The next day the Los Angeles Instead, they give just one: viewers across the country Times headline read, "USC wins We in the stands might not our refs. We should at least try 
know: Tony Brooks didn't That referee's call was an in­on goal-line sham." That score have recognized what was go­to understand why they might reach the end zone with the ball tegral part of our victory .. We is now known as the "Phantom ing on, but those watching the legitimately think that. in the game against USC. He might hate to win games like Touchdown." game at home saw the referee's 
fumbled it into and out of the that, but, face it, if we didn't mistake replayed several times. Tom Poundstone end zone. win this game like that, we Brooks' touchdown against When those viewers ponder St. Joseph Hall It wasn't just a quite possibly would not have USC was equally dependent on why USC can't beat Notre Dame Oct. 30, 1991 
DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5!Z, I'M NOT ReAU.Y A  YeAH.  
CABBI/?. I'M A P~­ I'V/360!  MYJ0£3?  
ANC& A!W5T. THIS IS JUST  A £.177£8  UM...  
7CMFORAR'I, UNTIL-MY HUS­ 6//<t..  
BANI? GeT5ANOTHeR. JQ9...  

'God gave burdens, also shoulders.' 
Yiddish Proverbs 

Don't carry that weight, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 




Accent 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 page 11 

By MONICA YANT for people discussing the Civil at the same time. News Editor Hights mHvement. "At times, I Amazingly, he did just that. would be looked to as sort of At the time, the CFL would 
From the Notre Damp, grid­the independent person." induce players with the oppor­iron to the Canadian Embassy Even so, he said he found lit­tunity to start a career while in ln~land. Michael Wadsworth tle cultural difference between playing football. He was able to has made quite a name for himself and other students. attend law school during the himself. llis experience with the foot­mornings and early afternoon 
The position is merely one of ball team was during a "very and then practice from 4-to­a series of unexpected promo­interesting four-year period ...at 9:30 p.m. with the Toronto tions thrusting the ambitious the tale end of Notre Dame's Argonauts. I<J(l(l alumnus into tlw lime­valleys in its football history." If the schedule sounds excru­light. Wadsworth, who was on By his junior year, Ara ciating, it was. eampus last week lecturing on Parseghian was hired and the UYou could do it then, you 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Northern Ireland, tells an life team "scaled the heights" to a couldn't now," Wadsworth said. story full of hard work and de­9-1 season. He spent five years with the 1966 graduate Michael Wadsworth has found life full of opportunity. termination. UYou saw the tremendous dif­Argonauts until a call to the He rose steadily through the host of services, from helping Still. the defr-nsive tackle­ference leadership could play," Canadian Bar Association and a ranks at Crownx, he said, until distressed Canadians abroad to 
turned-ambassador admits that he said. nagging knee injury told him it 1989. That was the year he-fostering cultural and academic the luck of the Irish has been Even when the team was was time to move on. But heard of an even better open-exchanges between the two na­with him all the way. down, Wadsworth saw a strong although Wadsworth was leav­ing: the position of Canadian tions." 
Ih~ eamtl to Notre Dame with support network from the stu­ing the playing field, he would Ambassador to Ireland. Halfway through his four­snvnral dreams. lie wanted to dent body and the general pub­not abandon the game. Family ancestry proved the year appointment, Wadsworth play football for the Irish. lie lic. "The campus would still be Although he had "no back­basis for Wadsworth's active is already looking to the future. wanted to do so well enough to swarming with people, the sta­ground" in journalism, interest in Ireland. He and his The appointment is usually only follow in the footsteps of his dium would still be filled," he Wadsworth's retirement from wife Bernadette grew more in-one-term, so his options are father, who played profession­said. the game led to jobs working as terested after taking a dozen numerous. ally in the 1930s and early "I think people were just a radio and television commen­trips to the country between Still, he's not predicting his 1940s for the Ottawa Fighters waiting for it (football) to return tator and newspaper columnist. 1980 and 1989. future. of the Canadian Football to its rightful place." He worked as a radio and By this time he had also be-The European situation in-League (CFL). Although the change in the television commentator for the come very involved with the trigues Wadsworth, who said 
llll also wanted to get a good football program's success is Toronto Argonauts games from Ireland Fund, a charity organi-experiencing the everyday education and preparation for evident, the biggest difference 1971-1981. At the same time, zation to "raise funds outside changes in the political and law school. Wadsworth sees today is the he was also a sports columnist Ireland for non-sectarian, non-economic structure will be a 
lie hoped to do it all. role academies play at the for the Toronto Star from 1972 political uses" under the motto "great plus" to his business ca-
When Wadsworth came to University. "There was a lot to 1973. "peaee, culture and charity." reer, whatever he decides to do. Notre Dame in the 1960s, the more discussion (in the 1960s) And through all of this, he Needless to say that when he Notre Dame's reputation in turbulence of thll 1960s should about whether the school was maintained a successful prac­heard of the open position, Ireland has been pleasantly havll betm enough chaos for any emphasizing academics too tice in criminal defense law. Wadsworth knew he wanted the surprising to Wadsworth. "The student. Matters weren't helped strictly." By 1981 Wadsworth had job. Irish people know soeeer more by the faet that Wadsworth was While critics claimed the ustarted to become a little rest­About 15 percent of Canadian than football ... But they know an intP.rnational student in a University's commitmerrt to less," going through "a period ambassadors are from the pri-about Notre Dame." nnw 1mvironment. academics would diminish its of wanting new options" beyond vale sector, including the uThe Irish feel a certain kin-
lie didn't know what to ex­championship tradition, the legal field. He decided to Ireland position. Since a mentor ship with (Notre Dame)." pect, and said he was pleasantly Wadsworth points to the Irish expand his horizons and try a in the legal field had introduced With the Notre Dame delega­surprised by the Notre Dame football program in 1991 to different profession: business. Wadsworth to Canadian Prime tion's visit to Ireland comes talk family. dispel their arguments. With the assistance of an ac­Minister Brian Mulroney years between religious, business and 
uovnrall, the four years at "The academic requirements quaintance looking for a new before, Wadsworth formally academic leaders interested in Notrll Dame were outstanding are higher today than they were executive, a businessman was declared his interest in the job. forging a stronger relationship years. The whole atmosphere then, and I don't have to tell born. At 38 years of age, Then he waited. between the University and the on the campus was a very posi­you about the superiority of the Wadsworth and his family About eight months later, he country. tive one," he said. football program." moved to the United States as received a call from the Prime During his tenure, Wadsworth 
During his years at Notre When Wadsworth graduated he embarked upon a career Minister and was offered the will encourage this relationship. Dame, the international factor in 1966 with a degree in gov­with Tyco Laboratories Inc. in position. In October of 1989, he Having just celebrated his 25th .. often put Wadsworth in the ernment and international New Hampshire. Three years and Bernadette moved to reunion, his memories of Notre spotlight. studies his dream hadn't later, another opportunity arose Dublin. Dame run deep and strong. 
I lis perspective as an interna­changed; he wanted to return to a bit closer to home in Toronto, The job of an ambassador is "The feeling hasn't left me, tional student was sought after Canada to play professional and he went to work for multi-faceted, Wadsworth said. after all this time. I wouldn't by friends needing a mediator , football and attend law school Crownx, Inc. "An embassy creates a whole trade it for the world." 
Accent 
page 12 Tuesday, November 5, 1991 




Child prodigy Fred Tate (Adam Hann-Byrd) struggles with his mother Dede (Jodie Foster) in the movie "Little Man Tate." 
most popular, commercial cinema. The rising trend in movies has been to convey a few moments of real entertainment, while distracting the viewer the rest of the time with gags, music, or action. 
For this very reason I do not judge "Little Man Tate" that harshly. Its "bits of the sublime" are better than most I have seen on the big screen in the past few years. 
The film reaches the heights of true cinematic art at several places, but the rest of the movie (the hour and ten-odd minutes left of the film) not only disap­points the viewers, but bores them. 
"Little Man Tate" is the story of a music/mathematics genius only seven years old. He is the son of a waitress who has no money, education, or husband. 
The child is bored by his regular
-
school, and his mother, played by Jodie Foster, tries to stimulate him as best she can. She obviously loves him, but her love is hardly enough to sustain his 

•
1n 

Choirs anticipate busy semester 
By JEANNE DE VITA invitation to perform a variety of Accent Writer contemporary Midwestern composers' work for women's voices at the Convention 
This season the Notre Dame/Saint is "a real honor, " said Menk, as this year Mary's Women's Choir and the Collegiate marks the first year that the choir will be Choir are rapidly making a name for performing in the Central Division. themselves among the country's choral Several men from the Collegiate Choir community. , · will perform with members of the 
"I feel the Women's choir is one of the Women's Choir at Saint Mary's Madrigal strongest I have had," said Nancy Menk, Dinners this December. Entertainment at choir director for the Saint Mary's music the dinners, which are recreations of an department. "They are gpod readers and Elizabethan feast, will be provided by the are able to learn a lot a lot of music in a mixed choir. short time," Menk said. Eight pieces of music for voices that 
The Women's Choir is one of two have been commissioned, premiered, 
separate choirs that serve the Saint Mary's published, or composed by the Saint and Notre Dame communities. A select Mary's community have been published in group of 30 women were chosen by Oregon. Two of the pieces were composed 
to add their voices to the by Saint Mary's Dr. Zaemann; his Women's Choir. "Grandma's Alleluia" will be performed by 
20th century pieces created to challenge the Choirs at the concert Thursday. the woman's voice are chosen for this Various selections from the other pub­choir. The choir generally sings a cappella, lished works are performed regularly using various repetitions and rarely sing across the country. in fewer than three or four parts. The officers of the Saint Mary's choirs 
The Collegiate Choir is a "fun group," include President Ed Palmisano; Vice­which "gives more people the opportunity President Cecelia Martin; and Secretary­to sing in a mixed choir," said Menk. 50 or Treasurer Cara Belog. 60 students from both Saint Mary's and The 1991 season promises landmark Notre Dame participate in this choir, achievement for the Saint Mary's Choirs. A singing musical selections representing all semester of vigorous training and periods and styles. preparation have been rewarded with na­
Menk anticipates a busy semester for tional performances and recognition. the choirs. The two choirs will perform a concert in the Little Theatre, Thursday, Students are invited to the Choirs' November 8, at 8 p.m., as part of the concerts and campus performances and rigorous preparation process for a guest also to participate in the choirs. Menk performance in February. reminds students that auditions for the 
The Women's Choir has been invited to Collegiate Choir are held each semester, participate in the Central Division and the choir welcomes tenors and bass Convention in Chicago this February. The voices to auditions in the coming weeks. 
the movie. all that he loves. Grown-ups have killed Jodie Foster plays the part of the 
The child, played by Adam Hann­themselves over less, but Fred merely overprotective victim-mother with all Byrd, play~ most of the role hides. the imagination found on a soap opera, convincingly, but fails on the truly He doesn't cry, he doesn't get hostile, and is shown up by the relatively emotional moments of the movie. This is and he even blames the correct parties untrained actors Connick and Hann­partially the fault of the script. instead of himself. He may be far ahead Byrd. 
The writer does not seem to have of the adults in this movie intellectually, The moments of glory in this movie, really watched how kids act when they but nothing but time and experience such as the scenes of Fred's thoughts as are under pressure, frightened, or matures a person emotionally. he figures out math problems or disappointed -whether they are child That is the major flaw of this film, in analyzes a pool game, the segment with prodigies or regular kids. that it assumes that Fred can handle Connick set to "I Get a Kick Out of You," 
No kid at age seven would take as more emotional pain than other seven­and the close-ups of Fred buried in stoically as Fred does the outrages, year olds. For the truly gifted children, thought, are irreproachable in both upheavals, and existential angst that he with their understanding of both the their inception and execution. undergoes. There is a line in this movie: events and the consequences of what However, the rest of the movie serves "The pain of the mind is often far worse happens to them, the reverse is as sharp contrast to these moments of than the pain of the body." probably true. inspiration. 
For children this is doubly true. Fred The rest of the movie, excluding the Overall, however, Foster cannot be Tate takes his sorrows and his pains beautiful cameo of Harry Connick, Jr. as criticized too closely either. She has just like a little man with all the atten­Fred's buddy, is disturbingly regular. directed a film with moments of dant terrible results. Connick's bright spot shows his excellence in it, for which the direction 
However, his strength and eventual emulation of Frank Sinatra admirably, is largely responsible. collapse are not convincing because no prompting the viewer to recall Sinatra's Foster has obviously worked closely child, not even one who really under­film triumphs such as "The Manchurian with her choice for Fred, and Hann­stands what is happening to him, can Candidate." Byrd shows signs of well-directed for long bear the burden of the loss of Ironically, the experienced actress coaching. 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classlfieds every bus1ness day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
'NOTRE DAME VIDEO' 
New Arrivals: 
-Dances with Wolves 
-Doors 
-Misery 
-Robin Hood 
-Silence of The Lambs 
Open 7 Days a Week 4-11 PM Basement of Lafortune 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Buy and Sell used books 
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and 
the NY nmes tooII 
corner of NO ave and Howard 
233-2342110-5:30 everyday 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
BUFFALO CLUB XMAS BUSIIII The bus will leave December 21st and come back January 13th(the day before registration) Signups will be in Lafortune, by the Information desk, on Thurs. Nov. 7th from 9pm­11 pm. Cost is $75 dollars. Rochester people welcome. Any ?'s, Ma"x3573 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: light grey Ariz. St. sweatshirt sometime before Break ...maybe near Badin. If found, call Jon #1854 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS ON SATURDAY AT GAME. CALL 284-5093. 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118. 
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Promote & Organize our Spring Break tours. All materials furnished. Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus Marketmg. 1-800-423-5264. 
Fraternities, sororities, campus 
organizations. highly motivated 
individuals-Travel FREE plus earn 
up to $3000+ selling SPRING 
BREAK trips to Cancun 'South 
Padre Island 'Bahamas/Cruise' Acapulco 1-800-258-9191. 
Earn $2500 & F rae Trips Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 
I need 5 G.A.'s for the Tennessee game. Andrea X3720 
Riders needed to Buffalo area leave: 27NOV return: 1DEC Please call Sherry x4717 
FOR RENT 
2 bdrm house. $150 & 
$200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 
Walk to campus. 
1310 South Bend Ave. 
Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical 
home. No appliances. $550/mo. 
Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or 
Cressy & Everett/ BH & G 233­
6141. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6 PEOPLE 2773097 
LARGE 3-BEDROOM DUPLEX 
NEAR NO. APPLIANCES, 
GARAGE, WALK-IN CLOSETS, 
NEW CARPET/PAINT. $395 + 
UTILITIES. 289-1618. 
2 Bed/2 Bath Condo, 1518 N. 
Oakhill. 5 min walk from campus. January avail. References/Deposit 273 
-1329. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
A quaint studio in lovely old mansion 1/2 mile from N.D. $2251 mo. plus deposit call 2879624 
FOR SALE 
2 0/W TIX SB TO PHILA. NOV 14 $80 EA. 287-9676 
FOR SALE: 
'83 Mercury Lynx 
Good condition, sunroof 
Will discuss price 
Call Karen @ 284-5050 
See NO in Hawaii\I Airline ncket only $430.00 Call Mike #3493 
'76 VOLVO 245 WAGON. 3 SEAT, 7 PASS. NO RUST OR DENTS. NEW BRAKES, TIRES EXHAUST. 4 SPEED WITH OVERDRIVE. $1800 OR B/0. 684-6129. 
Must sell two very good tickets for James Taylor concert, Friday 1118, Chicago, Aria Crown. Call AI 239­5378 or 273-1080. 
Apple lmagewriter If 
Brand new, in box, paper & 
dust cover. ask $375 
Tom 277-8790 
TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
0 1ease help, I need Tenn GA's, call 
Kevin@# 1407. 
FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME 
GAMES273-1802 
WILL BUY TENN 
MIKE 288-7458 
I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD. 
CALL MATT @ 1802 
DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN 
GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL 
PAT X17671!1 
I will give YOU anything you 
want if You give ME what I 
want-ANY TENN TIX 
Call BROOKE at x2240 
$$$ATTENTION Ticketholders: I need TWO Tennessee GAs so bad that I can taste them! Big Bucks in it for YOU II Call DICE at x1751 $$$ 
Roses are red 
Violets are blue 
I'm schizophrenic 
And so am I. 
So I need an extra 
Tenn. GA. 
Todd X2371 
Need Tenn tix Call Jim 232-3296 
I need Tenn GA's or stud Greg 289-8917 
H$LPI ON$ T$NN TICK$T N$$0$01 CALL COLL$$N X4244 
Need 2 TennGA's desperately II Call Laura X2545 
NEED 2 Tenn GAs Kelley 283-4836 
Need 1 TN GAl Mark x1197 
Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big $ pd. Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908 449-0589. 
Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn. Joe 277-9924 
PLEASE sell me 2TN GAs. I'll pay 
BIG$$. Call Will at x3001. 
NEED 2 PENN ST GAs Kelley 4836 
SELLING TENNESSEE STUDENT TICKETS. LUIS: 273-1528 
I Need A Female Stud. Ticket. Jay x1578 
NEED Tenn. nx x4040 
NEED Tenn. nx x4040 GA or Stud. 
Need TENN tixl x4282 '60 ALUM NEEDS 20R4 TENN 
GA'S 2989 OR 272-3229 $$ 
HELP!$! Need 5 Tennessee GA's 
Joe 289-6494. 
I NEED TENN. STUD'S OR GA'S 
CALL CHRIS #1245 THANX 
NEED ONE TENN GA TICKET; 
CALL DAVE 283-1545 
NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283­
1545 
I need 1 stud or GA ticket for 
Tennessee. Call Henry at 
272-9326. If not home, leave a 
message. 
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhl Please help me. need 2 GA's for Tennessee more than life itself. I'm sure I can help you out in return. For instance, I give great sax. If that isn't music to your ears, we'll work something else out. Just call Ma" at x2058. 
NEED 4 TENN nx-STUD or GA 
Call Bill at -4186 
Need Student or GA's for Tennessee. Call Sean 232-3296 
Need Tenn. Stud. & GA's. 
Call #3718. 
FOR SALE: 3 TENN. GA'S. CALL 
JOHN 2473. 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITT.& NAVY 
GA TIXS.272-6306 
Need 2 GA's for Navy and 
Tennessee. Ca11Ttmatx1417. 
I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC 
and Tennessee. 
Chris 239-5713 
NEED PENN STATE TIX JOE X2341 
TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS. 
RANDY 800-323-7687. 
Can you dig this I I am terribly interested in buying a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object, unless of course you want more money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015. If Dave is busy his personal staff will be happy to help you. Irish V-ball ruleslllllllllll 
will buy any 
tenn or navy 
tix. john 1811 
Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please 
call Dan xt740 
Good afternoon, my friends. I have a small request which I hope can be mutually beneficial to all involved. I desperately need 4 GAs for Tennessee. If you have any at all please call Gina@ 2982. If I am unavailable, please leave a message so I can get back to you. 
Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets 
Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845. 
$$$ I need lots a' GA's for Navy and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for Aaron or leave message. $$$ 
Need Tenn GAs Chris X2125 
I NEED 2 TENN GA5-LAURA 277-9158 
WILL BUY TENN Mike 288-7458 
NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831 
I NEED I TENN GA OR STUD TIX WILL PAY BIG $$ CALL STEVE X1003 
Need 2 TENN stud. or GA's. Call Lara x4918 
"""$$$$$$$$$$''''" " NEED TWO TENN GA's " " FOR PARENTS FROM "' " BOSTON I WILL PAY"" " TOP DOLLAR! PLEASE" "CALL PATTY x2126'" ""'''$$$$$$$$$'""' 
$ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $ 
I WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY FOR 2 TENN GA'S X1737 
I have 1 Student Tenn ticket for . sale, best offer. I also am in dire need of two Tennessee GA's, call xt471. 
Need 2 student tickets for Tenn. , 
Please call273-9316 
PLEASE help I Need Tenn. GA 
or Stud. tixl Call Sarah x4220 
One TENESSEE ticket needed 
Please call Michelle at 2672 
Help Cure The Peutis Running 
Rampant in My Family I I I 
Sell Us Four Tennessee GA's X3414 
DESPERATELY NEED TENN TIXS CALL MARIA OR CRISTIN X3433 
NEED TENN STUD AND GA TIX 
JOE X1835 X1836 
Tennessee UNSIGNED Student Ticket Book. Call 283-3658. Take your HTH to the game. Call up your friends, tell them you've found a ticket for the NO-Tennessee game. Number 5 ranked Notre Dame versus Number 13 Tennessee-what a game it will be. 
Need Tenn GA's or Stud's. Call 
Chris-2779442 
$$$Help make Aunt Rita and Uncle Len very happy! Need Tenn tix-stud or GAI-x1814 
Need 2 Tenn GAs or stud tixl Please Helpl Susan x4276 
2 Tenn ST Tix for sale 
271-0702 

I NEED SIX TENNESEE GA'S AND TWO STUDENT TIX FOR FAMILY CALL DREW @ 2789 
NEED TENN GAS. MONEY NO 
OBJECT! Call Ron x2157 
Need 1 Tenn GA 
Call x2558 

Knoxville Alum wants 10 tickets. willing to pay BIG BUCKS$$. Call x3278 
I need 2 GA's for Tenn. $$$ 
call Ma" at 277-4673 
Big, Big $$$$ for TENN Tickets : Student and GA's call x3302 
I NEED 2 OR MORE TENN GA'S 
OR STUDENT TICKETS 
CALL BRENT X1972 
FOR SALE: 
ROOM RESERVATION 
AT DAYS INN ON 31 PLUS 
TWO TENN GA'S. PACKAGE 
DEAL! I CALL TONY X3467 
NEED 1 TENN. STUDENT OR GA Call Beth x1346 
I need, I want, and I covet 
Tennessee GA's 
Please, Please, Please, Please 
call Andy @ 233-9588 
PERSONAL 
Start preparing for the fa"y old Tailgator to end all tailgatorsl 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
stronger than burt 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TOMORROW 6:30 P.M. HAYES­
HEALY AUDITORIUM. ALL 
INVITED. 

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TOMORROW 6:30P.M. HAYES 
HEALY AUDITORIUM. ALL 
INVITED. 

PLAY IT AGAIN! 
PLAY IT AGAIN! Dancing and singing musical revue w/ the HERITAGE DANCE COMPANY at Mishawaka High School auditorium. Saturday 
November 9, 7:30pm. 
Only $3.00 for students. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
2 ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKETS! You are eligible to win this fabulous prize by volunteering at the SMC phonation, Nov. 4-14, 1991. Call Jean at 284-4502 to sign up or for additional details! Free long­distance phone calls! Free food I Free fun I 
On Thursday, Nov. 7, 1991 
JOE THEBY TURNS 211111 
if you see him, wish him a good one and make sure to assist him in his pain. make it a night he can't remember. 
Lando Lives .......... . 
To Jenny and Brad: My co-workers in Hell. .. We got through it, who needs sleep? A few reminders: 
Non-sequitur Wrong! Next issue! That's 1 very, 2 shorts. Our overheads were cool. 
Bring on Helene Curtis I Love, Lynn 
HELPIII I'M IN NEED OF TENN GA TICS I 
Please call Alissa at 284-5319. 
COME SEE Athletic Director 
DICK ROSENTHAL 
Speaking On 
"The Future of Notre Dame Athletics" 
TONIGHT 7:45 p.m. Knights of Columbus Hall >OPEN TO THE PUBLIC< 
hey nil 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 
000 The Copy Shop 000 Lafortune Student Center WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS 
Just saying Hi to Boozi, Marie, and Marrit. Thanks for dissing me this year. 
yours truly, 
P.B. 
Sharing our love with a baby would be a dream come true. Please help us with our dream. Call Marty or Nancy collect (317) 842-8312. 
WANTED: 1 or 2 dedicated students to fill the Fri. night shift for COUNSELINE. If you are interested in providing this community service, call 239-7337. 
SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATIONS LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH I WE PROVIDE EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW 6:30P.M. HAYES HEALY AUDITORIUM. ALL INVITED. 
The fun and exciting Pi"sburgh Club needs a freshman or soph. executive member! call Di x4~61 for more info. 
DON'T FORGET: SESQUICENTENNIAL CUP NIGHT AT ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUBII WED. NOV. 6 $.50-CUPS $1.00 TO FILL 
Is anyone going to the Detroit Rush concert Nov. 13 or 14? I need a ride. x4009 

Congratulations to the FLANNER TOWER GAMECOCKS for their 8-0 shutout of Off-Campus 
in the IH playoffs. As Father Bill said, "You shut them out, you shut them down, and YOU SHUT THEM UPI" 
GO'COCKSIIII KRUSH KEENAN Ill! 
HOA SEZ: THE TOP 10 KOPECK QUOTES FROM ROOM 748: 
10. Kreative Kinky Kool Kopecking Kan be Krazy-Sez Amy, Beth, Christine, Cindy, Court, & Hoa 
9. I think about your Kopeck when I go to the bathroom-MD 
8. C'mon Girls Lets drive to Tennesee-we can Kopeck all the way down-nm 
7. Cindy sez: Kopecks & Marinara are my fav 
6. My father always said don't blow your Kopeck all in one place-Chat 
5. Sabes has a very small Kopecker-Luigi 
4. Any chance of Kopeck Luigi drops his pants & grabs his ankles­Sabes 
3. Thrust the Kopeck into the vortex of the Megaron-Scion of G-28 
2. I love to Kopeck in the dark-KC !.DOH 
Dude-Thanks for the personal! 
Hey Walsh-sometimes the best team doesn't always win. Congrats on a great season, and be sure to win one for the Gibber next year. t had a great timel -D.G. 
Hey KNOTT ANGELS I 
Spend a night with the stars .... 
SYR tix are going fast so buy yours soon and don't miss out on those awesome squeeze bo"lesl
.......................................... 
Eileen O'Connor, 
We miss you terribly I Hope you are knocking them out in lnnsbruckl Amanda, Kelley, Cindy and Melissa are wondering when those Austrian guys are going to start calling. Everybody says hello! 
Love, Amanda, Kelley, Cindy, Melissa, Julie, Christina, Kara, Nicole, Chine"a, Anne Marie, Beth Eileen and the rest of the Angels I 
P.S. It snowed this morning, bet you really miss South Bend weather! 
309 Kno" Hall "FOR RENT" go figure 
flESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/ 

DAYTONA BEACH -lffM 
5 Mid 1 NIGHTS 

· SOUTH ,ADtf ISWIJ -'128 
5 Alii) 1 NIGHrS 

SJ!AMIJOAT -'JJJ 
2, 5 AND 1 NIGHTS 

PANAMA CITY·BEACH ,...'122
7 NIGHTS 

FORT LAUDERDALE .....lfJ6 
7 NIGHTS 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND -1ff9 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

MUSTANG ISLAND I . .....lf28 
PORT ARANSAS · '$· 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS . :: 

lith Annual ;, Celebratlol'!f TOLl FREE INFORIIAnON & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 

~~ ~ ~ 


I___ --------.--------------·-----·---·-·-------------------------------------------------------·-·· ... --·---.......... ~ ........... --~..--....~-................... J 



SCOREBOARD 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
EAST Rutgers (5-4) at Pittsburgh (5-4) Boston College (3-5) Ill Terrple (2-6) SOUTH SW Louisiana (1-7-1) at Auburn (4-4) Georgia (6-2) va. Florida (7-1) South Carolina (3-3-2) at Florida St. (9-0) Furman (6-2) at Georgia Tech (5-4) Central Florida (4-5) at Lberty (4-4) Alabama (7-1) at LSU (4-4) Penn St. (7-2) at Maryland (2-6) Louisville (2-7) at Memphis St. (4-5) West VIrginia (6-3) at Miami (7-0) Clemson (5-1-1) at North Carolina (5-3) Virginia (6-2-1) at North Carolina St. (7-1) North Texas (2·5-1) at Nicholls St. (4-4) East Carolina (7-1) at Southern Mississippi (4-5) Navy (0.8) at Tulane (0.9) Kentudly (3-5) at Vanderblft (4-5) Akron (4-4) at VIrginia Tech (4-4) Duke (4-2-1) at Wake Forest (1-7) MIDWEST Middle Tenn988ee St. (6-2) at Cincinnati (3-6) Indiana (5-2-1) at Iowa (7-1) Kansas St. (4-4) at Iowa St. (3-4-1) Nebraska (6-1-1) at Kansas (5-3) Northwestern (3-5) at Michigan (7-1) Ohio St. (6-2) 111 Minnesota (2-6) Oklahoma (6-2) at Missouri (3-4-1) Tennessee (5-2) at Notre Dame (8-1) Eastern Michigan (2-6-1) at Ohio U. (2-6-1) 
Illinois (5-3) at Purdue (3-5) Ball St. (5-4) at Toledo (3-4-1) M!aml, Ohio (5-3-1) at Western Michigan (5-4) 
Michigan St. (1-7) at Wisconsin (3-5) 
SOUTHWEST Texas A&M (6-1) at Texas Christian (6-2) Texas (4-3) at Houston (2-5) 
Colorado (5-2-1) at Oklahoma St. (0. 7-1) Alee (3-5) at Southern Methodist (1-7) Jadlson St. (3-4) at Texas Southern (5-4-1) Arkansas (5-3) at Texas Tech (3-5) 
FAR WEST Army (3-5) at Air Force (7-3) Oregon (3-5) at Arizona St. (4-4) Wyoming (4-5-1) at Brigham Young (6-3) Texas-EI Paso (3-5-1) at Hawaii (4-4) Long Beach St (2-7) at New Mexico St. (1-7) 
Calffornla (7-1) at Oregon St. (0.8) Fresno St. (7-1) at Pacffic u. (4-5) Colorado St. (3-6) at San Diego St. (7-2) Cal St.-Fullerton (1-7) at San Jose St. (5-3) Washington (8-Q) at Southern Cal (3-5) 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Petrick Dlvlelon w L T Pte GF Washington 11 3 0 
22 67 NY Rangers 11 5 0 22 58 New Jersey 9 6 0 
18 62 Pittsburgh 5 6 2 12 53 
NY Islanders 4 7 2 
10 50 Philadelphia 4 6 1 9 32 
Adame Dlvlelon Montreal 12 3 1 
25 58 Hartford 6 4 2 14 41 Boston 
4 7 2 10 41 Buffalo 4 8 1 9 30 Quebec 3 1
9 7 42 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvfelon w L T Pte GF St. Louis 6 5 44
3 17 Chicago 8 6 4 
16 61 Minnesota 
6 6 1 13 42 Detroh 
6 7 1 13 48 
Toronto 4 10 1 9 40 Smythe Dfvlelon Vancouver 
10 4 1 21 58 Los Angeles 8 3 3 
19 56 Calgary 
7 6 1 15 57 Winnipeg 6 6 3 
15 48 Edmonton 5 2 44
8 12 San Jose 1 15 0 
2 38 
Sundey'e Gemee Vancouver 7, Edmonton 2 St. Louis 3, Winnipeg 3, tie Minnesota 4, Chicago 4, tie 
Monday'• Gemee Montreal 3, New Jersey 2, OT N.Y. Islanders 6, Boston 4 N.Y. Rangers 4, Calgary 0 Toronto 4, San Jose 1 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL Amerlcen Leegue NEW YORK YANKEES-Purchased the contract ol Larry S1anford, phcher, from Columbus of the 
International League.
SEATILE MARINERS-Placed Ken GrHfey, 1­outflelder, on the voluntary retlrad list. Netlonal League 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Dick Egan 
L!~~-==~:::..:....::.:_~..:_:::_....:..:...:....:..:::___:._.=__ __:_.:....____________-i regional croas-chedllng scout; and Bill Singer, Joe 
Campise, Ty Brown, Brad del Barba. Tim Schmidt, L_!!!!~_::~~:::!....:::.__:_:_:___:~.:..:._.:.._...:::.~..:....:=-=-:.....:...:....:..:....:_..:....:..:____.:::___--j
Steve Minor, Grady Mack, Jim Moran and Scott Dlez area scouts. NEW YORK METS-Namad Mke Cubbage third ~:!;_:::.:::::::~:____:_~:_....:..:.:._:_:...___:_.=_:.._:___:..:._:::..::.._.:....___:_.::.._______:::::---J 
base coach, Barry Foote dugout coach, Dave L~~~~:_::~~-_:~_:::.__::.:..:_::::__::___:_:_..:_:=~:.....:.....:.:.:::..::.:..:...:..:..:....:...:~..:....:..:.:....___--j
LaRoche bullpen coach, and John Stephenson bullpen catcher. Cellfornla Leegue 
SAUNAS SPURS-Named Charles Dowd Jr. general manager. 
BASKETBALL Netionel Beeketbell Aeeocletion 
DENVER NUGGETS-Announced the resignation of Don Johnson, vtce president of sales and marketing, In order to become director of marketing for the San Diego Padres. Continental B..ketbell Aeeocletlon 
GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Traded Sean Tyson, forward, and Andre Reyes, center, to the Yakima Sun Kings for a 1992 first-round draft pldl. Global B..ketbell Aeeocletlon 
HUNTSVILLE LASERS-Signed John Douglas, Carlos Funchess and Leroy Carnley, guards; and Earl Wise, Michael Graham, Dewayne Tanka and Frank Slllmon, forwards. Named Jell Walker assistant coach. 
FOOTBALL National Footbell League HOUSTON OILERS-Released ian Howfield, placekldler. 
HOCKEY Netionel Hockey Leegue 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled Dominic Lavoie, defenseman, lrom Peoria of the International League. Sent Randy Skarda, delenseman, to Peoria. 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Assigned Olaf Kolzlg, goaltender, from Baltimore of the American Hockey League to Hampton Roads of the East Coast Hodley League. 
GA 42  Home 5-t-o  Awey 6-2-o  Dlv 7-o-0  DIVISION 1-AA POLL  
48  7-2-o  4-3-0  4-2-o  
43 56 56 34  5-t-o 2-4-2 3-4-1 3-3-0  4-5-0 3-2-Q 1-3-1 1-3-1  2-4-Q 3-4-1 1-4-Q 1-4-1  MISSION, Ken. (AP) -The top 20 teeme In the NCAA Dlvlelon 1-AA football poll with flret-place votee In perentheeee, recorda through Nov. 3, total pointe end leet -•k'e  
ranking:  
Record Pte Prv  
23 40 47 44  7-2-o 3-1-2 2-3-0 3-3-1  5-1-1 3-3-0 2-4-2 1-5-0  6-2-1 2-2-1 0.1-1 3-4-1  1. Nevada (4) 9-Q-0 80 1 2. Eastem Kentudly 7-1-o 76 2 3. HolyCross 8-o-0 72 3 4. Northern Iowa 7-1-o 68 4  
51  3-4-1  0.5-0  1-3-0  5. Alabama State 7-0-1 64 6  
6. Middle Tenn. State 6-2-Q 60 7  
7. New Hampshire 7-1-0 56 8  
8. Delaware 8-1-0 52 9  
GA  Home  Awey  Dfv  9. Villanova 7-1-o 48 t10  
42  4-Q-2  2-3-3  2-2-2  10. Sam Houston State 6-1-1 44 5  
60  4-4-2  2-2-2  0.3-3  11. Furman 6-2-Q 40 13  
46  5-2-Q  1-4-1  3-0-1  12. James Madison 7-2-o 36 14  
46  5-3-0  1-4-1  2-3-1  13. Boise State 6-2-o 30 15  
51  4-3-1  0-7-o  3-2-1  14. Samlord 8-1-o 29 18  
15. Marshall 5-3-0 20 119  
42  6-2-1  4-2-o  5-2-Q  16. Western Illinois 6-3·1 19 12  
50 48  3-1-1 3-t-o  5-2·2 4-5-1  3-1-2 3-4-o  17. Lehigh 7-1-0 18 119 18. Cttadel 5-3-0 10  
55  4-4-1  2-2-2  2-3-1  19. McN98Se St. 4-3-1 6  
58 88  2-2-2 1-4-Q  3-6-0 0.11-0  3-3-1 1-4-0  20. Appalachian State 6-3-0 5 110  

Tueadey'e Gemee Minnesota at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 
Makea 

American
Boston at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Philadelphia at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
contribution to Heart 
Wedneedey'e Gemee 
Association 
Calgary at Hartford, 7:35 p.m 
life after death. 


Montreal at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Toronto, 7:35p.m 
N.Y. Islanders at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. This space provided as a public service 
DIVISION II POLL 
MISSION, Ken. (AP) -The top 20 teeme in the NCAA Dlvlelon II footbell poll with first-place vote• In perentheue, recorda through Nov. 3, total pointe end r..t -ek'e 
renklng:  
Record  Pte  Pve  
1. Indiana, Pa (4)  9-0-0  80  1  
2. Jacksonville St., Ala  7-o-0  76  2  
3 Pittsburg State, Kan.  7-1-1  72  7  
4. Northern Colorado  7-t-o  68  4  
5. Virginia Union  8-1-1  64  8  
6. Butler, Ind.  7-1-o  60  10  
7. TexasA&I  6-2-0  56  16  
8. Mississippi College  5-2-1  50  3  
9. North Dakota State  5-2-0  48  t1  
10. Portland State, Ore.  7-2-o  44  13  
11. Grand Valley St., Mich.  6-2-Q  42  12  
12. East Stroudsburg, Pa  7-1-1  36  14  
13. Winston-Salem St., NC  8-1-o  31  17  
14. Elizabeth Ctty, N.C.  7-1-o  26  
15. Mankato St., Minn.  5-3-0  23  118  
16. Ashland, Ohio  7-2-0  15  5  
17. Morehouse, Ga.  6-3-0  14  
18. Shippensburg, Pa  7-2-o  13  t18  
19. Sacramento State  6-2-o  6  9  
tie. North Dakota  6-t-o  6  
tie. Wofford S.C.  7-2-o  6  6  

FORMULA ONE 
Drlvere' champlonehlp 
1. 
Ayrton Senna. Brazil, 96 points. 

2. 
Nigel Mansell, Br~aln, 72. 

3. 
Riccardo Patrese, ~aly, 53. 

4. 
Gerhard Berger, Austria, 43. 

5. 
Alain Prost, France, 34. 

6. 
Nelson Piquet, Brazil, 26.5. 

7. 
Jean Alesi, France, 21. 

8. 
Stefano Modena, ~aly, 10. 

9. 
Andrea de Cesarls, ~aly, 9. 

10. 
Roberto Moreno, Brazil, 8. 

11. 
Pierlulgl Martini, ~aly, 6. 

12. 
J.J. Lehto, Finland, 4. 

13. 
Bertrand Gachot, Belgium, 4. 

14. 
Michael Scumacher, Germany, 4. 

15. 
Mka Hakklnen, Finland, 3. 

16. 
Martin Brundle, Britain, 3. 

17. 
Satoru NakaJima, Japan, 3. 

18. 
Julian Bailey, B~aln, 1. 

19. 
Eric Bernard, France, 1. 

20. 
Ivan Capelli, ~aly, 1. 

21. 
Agurl Suzuki, Japan, 1. 

22. 
Emanuelle Pirro, ~aly, 1. 

23. 
Mark Blundell, Britain, 1. 

24. 
Gianni Morbidelll, ~aly, .5. 


Conetructore' chemplonehlp 
1. McLaren-Honda. 139 points. 2. WHIIams-Renaun, 125. 3. Ferrari, 55.5. 4. Benetton-Ford, 38.5. 5. Jordan-Ford, 13. 6. Tyrreii-Honda, 12. 7. Minardi-Ferrari, 6. 8. Dallara-Judd, 5. 9. Lotus-Judd, 3. 10. Brabham-Judd, 3. 11. Lola-Ford, 2. 12. Leyton-llmor, 1. 
PGA MONEY-WINNERS 
PONTE VEDRA, Fla. (AP) -The final money leaders on the 1991 PGA Tour through the Tour 
Championship, which ended Nov. 3: Trn Money 
1. Corey Pavtn 
2. Craig Stadler 
3. Fred Couples 
4. 
Tom Purtzer 

5. 
Andrew Magee 

6. 
Steve Pille 

7. 
Nidi Price 

8. 
Davis Love Ill 

9. 
Paul Azlnger 

10. 
Russ Cochran 


11. Mlllk Brooks 
12. 
Lanny Wadkins 

13. 
ian Baker-Finch 

14. 
Billy Andrade 

15. 
Rocco Mediate 

16. 
Chip Bedl 

17. 
John Daly 

18. 
Jim Gallagher, Jr. 

19. 
Bruce Lietzke 

20. 
Mark O'Meara 

21. 
Jay Don Blake 

22. 
D.A. Welbrlng 

23. 
Jell Sluman 

24. 
Mike Hubert 

25. 
Slew Eklngton 

26. 
John Cook 

27. 
Scott Hoch 

28. 
Nolan Henke 

29. 
Ted Schulz 

30. 
ian Wooenam 

31. 
Payne Stewart 

32. 
Kenny Knox 

33. 
Hale Irwin 

34. 
Brad Faxon 

35. 
David Peoples 

36. 
Blaine McCallister 

37. 
Gene Sauers 

38. 
David Edwards 

39. 
Tom Kfte 

40. 
John Huston 

41. 
Bob Lohr 

42. 
Fuzzy Zoeller 

43. 
Jose Marla Olazabal 

44. 
Kenny Perry 

45. 
Tom Watson 

46. 
Billy Ray Brown 

47. 
Hal Sutton 

48. 
Curtis Strange 

49. 
Jim Hallet 

50. 
Mlllk Calcavecchla 

51. 
Scott Simpson _ 52. Bob Tway 


53. 
Greg Norman 

54. 
Steve Jones 

55. 
Rick Fehr 

56. 
Ray Floyd 

57. 
Bll Britton 


56. Loren Roberts 
59. 
Robert Gamez 

60. 
Larry Mlze 

61. 
Tom Sleckmann 

62. 
Gary Halberg 

63. 
Dillard Pruitt 

64. 
Peter Jacobsen 

65. 
Ken Green 

66. 
Bob GUder 

67. 
Brian Claar 


66. Jell Maggart 
69. 
Kehh Clearwater 

70. 
Gil Morgan 

71. 
Funon ADem 

72. 
Lee Janzen 

73. 
Fred Funk 

74. 
Howard Twhty 

75. 
Ben Crenshaw 

76. 
Bruce Fleisher 


n. PhU Bladlmar 
78. 
Dan Forsman 

79. 
Dave Rummells 


60. Scott Gurrp 
81. 
Bobby Wadkins 

82. 
Ed Dougherty 


63. Buddy Gardner 
84. 
Jay Haas 

85. 
Tim Simpson 

86. 
Dully Waldorf 

87. 
Wayne Levi 


88. Andy Bean 
89. 
BIUy Mayfair 

90. 
Neal Lancaster 

91. 
Mke Springer 

92. 
Mark McCurrber 

93. 
Davtd F roat 

94. 
Joey Sindelar 

95. 
Dan Pohl 

96. 
Larry Nelson 

97. 
Dan Halidorson 

98. 
Mke Reid 

99. 
Brad Bryant 

100. 
Jay Delslng 


25 21 21 25 28 26 23 28 21 
30 
30 23 21 29 25 26 33 32 19 25 27 24 30 31 28 25 31 27 31 6 19 33 17 28 29 26 25 27 25 27 26 16 7 24 16 29 28 20 31 24 18 
24 17 27 26 17 
30 
29 27 25 28 26 27 23 29 25 31 29 29 24 23 33 31 30 21 10 27 26 
31 29 31 36 30 29 25 29 25 24 33 33 28 23 28 28 21 16 27 20 29 31 
$979,430 $827,628 $791,749 $750,568 $750,082 $727,997 $714,389 $666,361 $885,603 $684,851 $667.263 $651,495 $849,513 $815,765 $597,438 $578,535 $574,763 $570,627 $568,272 $563,896 $563,854 $556,848 $552,979 $551,750 $549,120 $546,984 $520,038 $518,811 $508,056 $485,023 $476,971 $423,025 $422,652 $422,088 $414,346 $412,974 $400,535 $396,695 $396,560 $395,853 $388,759 $385,139 $382,124 $366,784 S354,an $348,082 $346,411 $336,333 $333,010 $323,821 $322,936 $322,931 $320,196 $294,961 $288,963 $284,897 $282,884 $281,174 $280,349 $279,081 
$278,598 $273,546 $271,861 $263,180 $263,034 $251,683 $251,309 $240,940 $239,727 $232,913 $229,702 $228,242 $226,915 $226,426 $224,563 $219,335 $218,838 $214,175 $213,627 $207,809 $206,503 $201,956 $201,700 $200,637 $196,582 $196,081 $195,861 $193,609 $185,666 $180,037 $178,587 $173,852 $171,282 $166,352 $183,438 $160,543 $156,743 $152,678 $152,202 $149.775 
SAINT MARY'S DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION PRESENTS: 
WcD>~~IHicD>lP ~~ll 
BUILDING SELF-ESTEEM IN THE CLASSROOM 
What is it? 
Participants in this workshop will learn the multiple 
components of self-esteem, classroom activities which 
enhance each of the components, and investigate ways 
to develop their own self·esteem both personally and 
professionally. 
When and where is it? 
The workshop will take place on NOVEMBER 1&, 1991 
from 8:30 am until 3:30 pm in Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's College. 
How much does it cost? 
Registration fees for SMCjND students are $8.00 (DUE NOV&) and $1D.DD for Non·SMCjND students (OPEN REGISTRATION: NOV 7·14) 
For more information on registering, contact the Department ofEducation, W isl85.
I 
THE PROBLEM: LOST CONTACT LENS 
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
* 
We'll call your doctor at no charge to you and quickly replace your contact lens 

* 
Conveniently located near campus 

* 
Eye exams and complete vision care available 


20% Discount on materials to students and faculty 
~ 
~
:= ==. 
~ _.? 

Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
277-1161 VISA Mastercard
1635 N.lronwood and Discover accepted 
North of McDonalds 


---------~ --~~ 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Volunteers hope to end inconsistency on Saturday 
Hope win versus the Irish will propel them into top 10 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -Memphis State 15 yard line. second half. "But we've got a lot Tnnnnssee coach Johnny Majors Late in the game, Tennessee of work to do to get ready for says he is morn concerned was on the verge of putting the what's ahead ... Notre Dame about his own team than the game away with a second-and­can score against anybody if one it's about to face -Notre goal at the Memphis State 4 they get the ball enough," he Darn<l. when nose guard Chris Hobbs said. 
Forget the tradition-rich intercepted a Kelly pass and Saturday's game is key to the mystique of the fifth-ranked ran 95 yards for a touchdown. postseason hopes of both the Fighting Irish, the Volunteers' It tied for the second longest Volunteers and Notre Dame, opponent Saturday in South interception return in school which is coming off a 38-0 vic­Bend. Ind. history. tory over Navy. 
Majors wants to unravel the ''I'm displeased with a lack of "There's no question of the mystery of No. 13 Tennessee's continuous consistent play," significance for both of us," inconsistency. Majors said. "We're more mis­Majors said. "We're still in the 
"Knowing thy self is more take-prone than any team I can hunt for a major bowl bid but important than knowing other recall in a long time." we have to beat Notre Dame. people," Majors told a Sunday That will be the focus of this It's our chance to get back in teleconference. week's practice as the Vols the Top Ten." 
The Vols (5-2) had a school prepare for Notre Dame (8-1). A As for the Notre Dame mys­rncord 603 yards in offense in solution may be elusive. tique, "I definitely think it's Saturday's 52-24 victory over "It's mystifying," Majors said. something you can spend too Memphis State. Andy Kelly "We've penalized people; we've much time on," Majors said. "A completed 28 of 37 passes for disciplined people. I think we've lot of our players don't even 319 yards and Aaron Hayden been getting excellent effort. remember Joe Theismann, ran for 169 yards and three but the consistency has not much less George Gipp and touchdowns. been there and that concerns Knute Rockne." 
But Tennessee defensive end me." Besides, Majors said perhaps Kaey Rodgers dropped the Majors said he found comfort with relief, "We won't be play­opening kickoff. In the second in Memphis State's inability to ing or coaching against any of quarter, the Vols fumbled on the score on the Vols' defense in the those people." 
Native Americans ·protest outside Redskins game 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A a Honkie." District of Columbia police offi­spokesman Vernon Bellecourt, Love and others said the dozen N.ativn Americans Cooke, the Redskins owner, cers stood by. But police said have questioned Pale Moon's protests would continue at the protested peacefully outside and other team officials main­there had been no clashes be­heritage. Redskins' remaining home HFK stadium bnfore the tain that the term "Redskin" tween the demonstrators and games. including next week's Houston Oilers-Washington speaks to the proud, loyal her­Redsk\n fans entering the sta­Pale Moon was not available contest against the Atlanta Hedskins game as part of their itage of Native Americans. But dium. to comment, but her husband, Falcons. campaign to get Washington to the Indian groups maintain the "Most of the fans have been Wil Rose, has said that she is change its nickname. term is derogatory and racist. receptive, but there have been a not enrolled in either the AIM drew attention to its is­
The group at Sunday's game, "They don't understand our few derogatory remarks and Cherokee or Ojibwe tribe be­sue by protesting against the whieh ineluded members of the culture," said Daniel Love, a obscene gestures," Love said. cause she did not discover her Atlanta Braves and their toma­Arneriean Indian Movement and Cherokee who lives in "That's to be expected, I guess." lineage until she was an adult. hawk-chopping Jans during the the Congress of American Greenbelt, Md. "We're a very The group also was protesting recent National League playoffs Indians, banged on drums, re­spiritual people, and we take the team's decision to hire an Inside the stadium, Pale Moon and World Series. cited Indian chants, and carried the nickname and all the antics Ojibwe Indian who calls herself performed the anthem without signs that read "The Team Has as an insult." Princess Pale Moon to sing the incident as nearly two dozen And while some Indian tribes a Hacist Niekname" and "If I'm Nearby the 12 Indian national anthem. Native Americans dressed in are not supporting the protests, a Redskins, Jack Kent Cooke is protesters, about two dozen Some, including AIM ceremonial gowns translated Love said they would continue. 
the anthem into sign language. She was accompanied by the "This is about education, both Redskins Marching Band. Each for Indians and white people," of the band's 90 members was he said. "We've been ridiculed wearing a headdress. and degraded all our lives." 
r-----­
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle7 Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fad is. noone has helped students score higher! 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
Salary: $15,000 -$29,000 
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
Loans: Deferment (Stafford) or Cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) 
1717 E. South Bend Ave.
Information Session 
South Bend, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135
Wednesday, November 6th, 8pm #204 o•shaughnessy Hall 



, .. • • ,.,,.,.,. .,..._.. ""'"' .,.,..,.,.. ,..,. •-,..,,. """• • r _...,,_....,rrJr:: • ..,._._ r r.r~" ...... , ______..,._....._____________~---------•.,.• ••• • •• •·• • 
t 
I page 16 The Observer I I I Joan Benoit Samuelson recovering 
from asthma after New York Marathon 
NEW YORK (AP) -A shaken Joan Benoit Samuelson, who suffered from severe dehydra­tion and asthma during the New York City Marathon, re­turned home to Maine on Monday with a new medication to ease her health problems. 
"It brought her considerable relief," Fred Treseler, a spokesman for John Hancock Financial Services, who talked with Samuelson before her de­parture, said of the medication. "She was buoyant as anyone could have been for someone who went through the trauma she did." 
Samuelson's difficulties began past the 17-mile mark of Sunday's 26-mile, 385-yard race through the city's five boroughs. Until then, she had stayed with the women's lead­ers -eventual winner Liz McColgan of Scotland, runner­up Olga Markova of the Soviet Union and third-place finisher Lisa Ondieki of Australia. 
After that, Samuelson, who never has dropped out of a marathon, struggled coura­geously to finish, winding up sixth. 
Her condition was described as hypovolemia by Dr. Andres Rodriguez, medical director for the race. 
IH 
continued from page. 20 
Pasquerifla West 14, Off­Campus 12 
The Pasquerilla West interhall football team snatched a victory from the jaws of defeat in Loftus on Sunday night against the Off-Campus Heathens. 
Off-Campus jumped out to an early lead in the first 'half with the help of running back Kristy Alkiadas. The speedy senior left 
Vball 
continued from page 20 
Wednesday night at home against MCC rival Loyola at 7:30p.m. This match concludes the 1991 home slate for the Irish. 
"It indicates a decrease in circulatory blood volume," Rodriguez said. "Mostly, it's caused by sweating and dehy­dration. She said it was the first time it happened to her in a race." 
The first sign of the serious­ness of the asthma problem oc­curred in May when Samuelson blacked out while running along the Charles River in Massachusetts in preparation for a low-key race in Iowa. It was the first time she ever blacked out and she was taken to a hospital. 
"I took it lightly then," she said. 
The asthmatic difficulties re­occurred during a half­marathon at Toronto in September. 
"I was wheezing and I ran slow, like I did today," she said after Sunday's scary experi­ence. "I started to shake. I was having trouble getting air. The difference between this time and last time was that I was coherent. I've to figure out how to get a handle on this condi­tion." 
Dr. Lewis Maharam, who at­tended to Samuelson in the acute medical tent and in her hotel room after the race, and Dr. Lorraine Giordano, a mem­
the P. W. defense in the dust with the long touchdown run. 
O.C. failed to get the extra point conversion. 
With minutes remaining in the half, P.W. pulled its offense together and was driving when time expired. 
P.W. came out for the second half with a renewed confidence in its abilities thanks to a frank halftime talk with coaches Jim and John Gordon, Chip Malin, and Darryl Clark. 
"Gordo (P.W. head coach Jim Gordon) let me know that he believed in us as a team," said ber of the medical team who helped administer four liters of intravenous fluid, may have found the cure for the 1984 Olympic silver medalist and American record-holder. 
"The doctors indicated that the medication she was taking contributed to the dehydration," Treseler said. "When she left today, she was feeling much better." 
Should Samuelson have stopped running when the asthma and dehydration set in? 
"If a physician would have noticed she had hypovolemia at the 17th mile, he would have advised her to drop out," Rodriguez said. "Her condition was an extreme form of dehy­dration ... it was worse than dehydration. Her condition was not painful, but she was totally exhausted. The asthma could have aggravated it." 
Despite the bitter disap­pointment of not winning at New York-a victory she had dearly coveted -will not has­ten Samuelson's retirement. 
"This is not the end of me as a marathoner," the 34-year-old Samuelson said. "I trained hard for this race: I think I was in better shape than before I ran Boston." 
At Boston in April, she fin-
P. W. quarterback Bethany Riddle. "I went out in the sec­ond half and really wanted to win the game for our coaches because they had so much faith in us." 
The Plaid Wave comeback at­tack was silenced to a faint murmur when O.C. quarterback Michelle Kowalski scrambled out of the pocket and raced over forty yards for a touch­down. The point after attempt was again denied by the P.W. defense giving O.C. a 12-point lead. 
The P.W. offense returned to 
UNIVERSITY FORUM Homosexuality at a Catholic University 

Intellectual Life Committee 
• 
& 
Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Commission 
It Unltedway 
The Homosexual Person 
bri~ out the best1 
and :=atholic Moral Teaching 
Rev. John Harvey, O.S.F.S. 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium Room 122 
7:30p.m. 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Father Harvey has over 35 years of experience in the pastoral care of hot ·sexual men and wo!"en. He is the director of Courage, a spiritual SUJ rt group for Cat.holtc homosexual men and women with chapters loc;;·.,d across the Un~ted States. He has written extensively on the moral and •astoral .tssues rrused by homosexuality. These writings include over 40 scho trly amcles, two shorter works, A Spiritual Plan to Redirect One's L1fe •nd Pastoral Care and the Homosexual, and a recent book entitled The 
Hom """" ~'~' N~ Th<·=""""" '"'"· "''I 
Graduate Student Union 
Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
SPORlSBRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m.,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 
~ttention Rowing Club: There will be a mandatory meeting for all rowing members this Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in room 120 Cushing, Fall break and future activities will be discussed. Bring ergathon pledges. 
~women's safety and self-defense course, beginning Wednesday, November 6, is being offered by Recsports. The objective of the course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Basic karate, judo and wrestling will be introduced as well as strategies for avoiding dangerous situations and dealing with threatening circumstances. Class meets 12 times on Monday and Wednesday nights from 7 to 8:15p.m. 
•ND/SMC Field Hockey will practice Wednesday, 11/6, between 10 and 11 p.m. in Loftus. For information call Suzanne at 283-2687. 
ished fourth with her best time in six years. 
She said she was uncertain whether she would compete in the women's U.S. Olympic marathon trials at Houston on Jan. 26 or try to make the team as a 10,000-meter runner. 
"First, I'll take an easy month" before making her de­cision, she said. 
McColgan was timed in 2 hours, 27 minutes, 23 seconds, the fastest time ever by a first­time woman's marathoner. 
the field with eight minutes re­maining in the game and abso­lutely nothing to lose. With the help of sophomore receivers Bridget Graham, Eileen Mee, Kristen Lefere, and Jenny Tate, Riddle led the drive downfield. Facing an unforgiving O.C. rush, Riddle was forced to scramble near the 30-yard line when holes opened up and the quarterback charged into the endzone. O.C. denied P.W. in its extra point attempt. 
Beaten twice on big runs, the 
P.W. defense got down to work. Key sacks by linemen Jen Mee Salvador Garcia of Mexico was the overall winner in 2:09:28, a career-best. 
However, race director Fred Lebow said the women started about four seconds before the cannon was fired officially sig­nifying the start, and her time may be adjusted after a study of tapes of the race. 
Approximately 26,900 started the race and 25,617 finished, both race records. 
and Jen Marten held O.C. to three downs. 
The P.W. offense did their job again. With a little over a minute remaining in the game, running back Ronnie Alvarez broke free down the sideline and raced for the touchdown. Sophomore Gail Carey caught the successful two point con­version to put P.W. ahead 14-12. 
O.C. had time to score again until senior Terry Cotter of P.W. grabbed an interception to end the drive. 
PW faces B.P. at Stephan field next Sunday at 2 p.m. 

Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee 
/lL

Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Commission 
Forum 

Is non-recognition ofa homosexual organization inconsistent with the mission ofa Catholic university? 
A Discussion/Debate 
Ralph M. Mcinerny 
Professor of Philosophy 
Lawrence J. Bradley 
Assistant Professor of Management 
Galvin Life Science Building Galvin Auditorium, Rm. 283 

Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 17 
' ,, .

Winless Colts continue the search for some answers 
URBAN P
~----~R~-~~~~~~-S~~~-R~-R~-~~~1-~0-~N~------~~~ 
z
0-E-R-D-l-1-N-E­
G) 
m 
A-T-N-0-:--C ENTER F 0 R S 0 C I Ill CONCERNS -CAMPUS MINISTRY: BADIN & HESBURGII LIBRARY 
R-T-S-M-G+--=JUSTI CE EDUCATION -CAMPUS MINISTRY -sURU OFFICE-IN 
HAGGAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CRLL: SUE CUNNINGIIRM 239-5293 
1 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Forget fingers, it's sure not going to be an interception by the Dolphins' about the trick plays. Right now, me," he said. "I just worry Louis Oliver. Then, after the Indianapolis Colts can't about my own job, and that's Miami's Pete Stoyanovich even execute the basies. plenty to do. We're not scoring missed a field goal attempt with 
"We don't have many decep­a whole lot of points period, 2:54 to go, the Colts drove tive plays in our gamH plan," field goals or touchdowns." across midfield before turning quarterback Jeff George said. The only other scoring for the ball over on downs. "But that's not for me to say. To Indianapolis has been on two "I made a bad throw," George me, we've just got to start touchdowns by Eric Dickerson said of the interception. "Then I seoring touchdowns." and one each by Jessie Hester was given a second chalice, and 
Indianapolis, the Nl•'L's only and Bill Brooks. on that fourth-and-5 play ... winless team at 0-9, hasn't "It's definitely a down feeling they came up with the right call scored a touchdown in 53 right now," Hester said. "We and we didn't execute, and we drives over 20 quarters. The just havH to keep our heads up shot ourselves in the foot." Colts have just 61 points this and go forward and try to come The loss was the Colts' fourth season and their only scoring back. Offensively, we aren't under new coach Rick Venturi, since the fourth week has been always on the same page. We who was elevated from defen­Hight field goals by Dean just need to get everyone doing sive coordinator when R-on Biasucci. the same thing." Meyer was fired. 
"Nobody's pointing fingers," Unlike the other games this "There's no such thing as a said Biasucci, who had two field year, the Colts never really were moral victory," Venturi said. goals in Sunday's 10-6 loss to out of Sunday's game and had "But at the same time, you have Miami. "Everybody's trying to two chances to go ahead in the to feed off small successes. I hold onto their own piece of the fourth quarter. don't have the points to show fort. We just need to get more "We came out playing hard, for it, but this team has come a W's." moving the ball," George said. long way in a month." 
Biasucci leads the team in "We did some things we wanted A big improvement has been scoring with 11 field goals and to do, but it was the same old the defense, which shut out the four extra points. story. We stopped ourselves." Dolphins the final three quar­
"If anybody's going to point The first chance ended with ters. 

"It's extremely frustrating to come out of each game with a loss," linebacker Scott Radecic said. "We made some good ad­justments and had opportuni­ties, but we just didn't win it." 
George said the Colts' game plan for the Dolphins "was pretty much the same as the first eight games." 
"We played a lot harder, but 
AP File Photo 

the fact is we're 0-and-9, and 
This pase sums up the Colts season to date,as Indy still seeks its first 
we need to stop that. I've said 
win. It will get its next chance against the Jets on Sunday.
this many times, but until we 
stop shooting ourselves in the foot and quit making mental errors, we're not going to win." 
Indianapolis plays Sunday at the New York Jets, who beat the Colts 17-6 in the Hoosier Dome earlier this season. 
"We can't play well one quar­ter.... We've got to play well the full four quarters." George said. 

DISMAS HOUSE: 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, 
dismas house offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training xperience with former prisoners. Together _an environ me 

of trust, friendship and hope can be built to provide the onfldence and courage necessary for each to enter societ as a valuable and integral member. 
Are you interested in living in the Dismas 
community next semester? Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer • 239·7862 
"I don't care how well we played (earlier), we didn't exe­cute on the fourth-and-5. I thought that was over with, but this game proves it (isn't). That's why we lost." 
Former Notre Dame coach's father dies 
DAYTON, Ohio (AP) -Gerald 
A. "Fuzzy" Faust, a former high school football coach and the 
father of Akron football coach Gerry Faust, has died at age 
84. 

Faust died Sunday of natural 
causes at his suburban Oakwood home. 
He coached Dayton's Chaminade High School to 11 
city championships from 1933 
to 1952. He came out of re­tirement to coach Chaminade 
-

____,___-=__._....._,..._.,___  r~~~~: ;:~::::~~~:~:~  
·_,_-,: 1~.­~-·· ~  Sophomore  • B • Ad • • t t•&Junior USiness miniS ra IOn Notre Dame Accounting Association and Arthur Andersen  M •aJOfS  ~·-_ ~~-­I iI  Faust grew up in Cleveland and enrolled at the University of Dayton in 1927. A back injury cut short his football playing career, and Dayton coach Harry Baujan hired him to coach the prep school team the universityoperated at the time.  
~ • ~ ~  present CAREERS IN ACCOUNTING  {f. After graduating from Dayton in 1930, Faust coached for a1~>t< year at Cincinnati Purcell High· School, then two years in  
~._,1~ ~--· ~  All students are welcome to attend and hear more about accounting related careers Wednesday, November 6th, 1991 Senior Bar  ~>t<·~­Cleveland at Cathedral Latin before taking over at1 Chaminade in 1933. 1...­His son, Gerald A. Faust Jr., I played for his father atI Chaminade. He later became  
I.; ~ 11 jI ,· ~  Presentation_ 4:30pm Pizza Reception -5:30 pm Dress is casual ARTHUR ANDERSEN  ~ coach at Cincinnati Moeller high school and the University 1of Notre Dame. before becom­. ing head coach at theIUniversity of Akron. Other survivors include his wife, Alma; a daughter, Marilee Oberhaus of Dayton; another ~ son, Fred, of Dayton; and seven B ~randchildren.  
~  ARTHURANDERSEN&Co SC  ~  Funeral services are sched­ 
l  !  uled  for  Thursday  at  Holy  

' 

~~->at<•»>K'~<''~~·>X<'~·:.x,~·~'>.CIIN~:~~,~~~·~;~~~'~,~~*'~'~"~''~'~',.J., Angels Church. 

Rangers extend win streak to six games 
Clemson remembers its 
with 4-0 shutout of Flames; Sharks lose 
national championship 
NEW YORK (AP) -John Vanbiesbrouck stopped 39 shots for his 11th career shutout and the New York Rangers extended their winning streak to six games by beating the Calgary Flames. 
Neither the Rangers nor Vanbiesbrouck have fared well against the Flames -New York ended a five-game winless streak against Calgary while Vanbiesbrouck is 3-7-1 lifetime against the Flames. 
But the Rangers controlled play from the start, taking a quick 2-0 lead on goals 59 sec­onds apart by Mike Gartner and Paul Broten. 
Islanders 6, Bruins 4 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Steve Thomas and Pierre Turgeon both scored twice, leading the
'· 
New York Islanders over Boston "It doesn't take this to bring those memories back." 
Ken Griffey Sr. decides to hang it up 
Memories of a storybook 

SEATTLE (AP) -Ken Griffey Sr., who played right field for two World Series champion teams with the Cincinnati Reds and made major league history by hitting back-to-hack home runs with his son, has an­nounced his retirement. 
Griffey, 41, said he reached the decision Saturday night, a day after his doctor told him he would not be able to play for at least 10 more months. 
Griffey began the 1991 season on the disabled list after injuring his neck in an auto ac­cident during spring training. He came back to play in 30 games, hitting .282 with one home run and nine RBls, before a bulging disk in his neck forced him out for good. The disk was removed Sept. 11. 
Griffey's doctor, William Tobler, cleared him to do light running on grass, but said Griffey would be in no shape to play by spring training. 
Bengals 
continued from page 20 
drop his public tirades. 
"It gets you nowhere, and it's worse than a waste of effort," Brown said, when informed of Wyche's comments. "It's better if you say very little. 
"There's nothing I can say to (Wyche) I haven't said many times on this subject." 
IHTERHALL BASKETBALL 
(MEH AHD IJOMEH) GRAD/FACULTY/STAFF BASKETBALL 
(MEH AHD IJOMEH) CLUB BASKETBALL CAMPUS CO-ED WALLYBALL IHTERHALL HOCKEY GRAD/FACULTY/STAFF HOCKEY 
DEADLINE -NOVEMBER 6 
for only their second victory in their last 10 games. 
Thomas' two goals came in a three-minute span of the first period, giving the Islanders a quick 2-0 lead. 
Maple Leafs 4, Sharks 1 
TORONTO -Wendel Clark scored two of Toronto's four third-period goals as the Maple Leafs rallied to send the San Jose Sharks to their 13th con­secutive loss. 
Toronto won for only the fourth time in 15 games. The expansion Sharks are 0-11-0 on the road, including a seven­game trip that ended at Maple Leaf Gardens. 
San Jose scored on David Bruce's power-play goal in the second period, and took a lead into the fmal period for the first 
"I was hoping to be able to come back for one more year, but I realized about a week after the operation that it probably wasn't going to hap­pen," Griffey said Sunday night from his home in West Chester, Ohio, near Cincinnati. 
He finished his 19-year career with a .296 average. He had 2,143 hits, 152 homers, 859 RBls and 200 stolen bases. 
Griffey broke in with Cincinnati in 1973 and hit .384 in 25 games. He became the Reds' starting right fielder in 1975 and batted .305 during the regular season. He played in all seven games of Cincinnati's World Series victory over the Boston Red Sox, batting .269 with four RBis. 
In 1976 Griffey finished sec­ond in the National League bat­ting race with a mark of .336 and earned another World Series ring as the Reds swept the New York Yankees in four 
Do it out of respect for the dead. And the livmg. 
t 
American Heart ft Association V 
time in their brief history. 
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP) -Jeff 

Canadiens 3, Devils 2 
Davis rolled the large ring

MONTREAL -Mike Keane 
around his finger and then 

scored on a rebound 38 seconds 
took it off. He doesn't wear the 

into overtime Monday night, 
ring much. Too valuable. 

lifting Montreal over the New 
Besides, he doesn't much care 

Jersey Devils and extending the 
for jewelry. 

Canadiens' winning streak to 
But he was wearing it now 

eight games. 
because he was back at

The victory saved face for 
Clemson to be honored along

Montreal goaltender Patrick 
with many of his 1981 team­

Roy, who allowed a freak goal 
mates for winning the school's 

to tie the game in the third pe­
first and only national 

riod. 
championship.

New Jersey's Peter Stastny, 
"This is a symbol," said 

headed off the ice on a line 
Davis, a co-captain on the 

change, flipped the puck in 
1981 team. "But what's 

from center ice and the shot 
engraved in my heart they

bounced over Roy's glove at 
couldn't make enough gold,

11:00. Roy, who had allowed 
they couldn't make enough

only 19 goals in his past 12 
diamonds to compare to that. 

games, just dropped his stick 
"This is something I'll 

and stared ahead in embar­
always remember. I can 

rassment. 
always reflect on it," he said. 

games. 
season that began with the 

Griffey was traded to the 
Tigers not even ranked and 

Yankees in 1982. He played 
ended with them beating 

parts of five seasons in New 
Nebraska 22-15 in the Orange 

York before going to Atlanta in 
Bowl to finish 12-0. 

1986, back to Cincinnati in 
The year before, Clemson 

1988 and finally to Seattle in 
went 6-5 and was overshad­

1990, where he joined his 
owed in its own state by South 

oldest son, Ken Jr. 
Carolina, which featured 

They became the first father­
Heisman Trophy winner 

son combination ever to start a 
George Rogers. 

game together on the same 
But when the two teams met 

team, when Ken Sr. played left 
Nov. 22 in Columbia, the 

field and Ken Jr. played center 
Tigers beat the Gamecocks 

on Aug. 31.1990. 
27-6. The victory, which may 

On Sept. 14, 1990, the two hit 
have saved coach Danny 

back-to-hack home runs off the 
Ford's job, propelled the 

California Angels' Kirk McAskill 
Tigers into the next season 

in Anaheim Stadium. 
with renewed hope. 

"Having Junior get to the 
"We probably had more tal­

major leagues as quickly as he 
ent (in 1980) than we did on 

did and then playing alongside 
the national championship 

him rates as one of my two 
team," said Davis, a 6-foot, 

greatest thrills," Griffey said. 
223-pound senior linebacker 

"The other is having my 
on the 1981 team. "We were a 

youngest son (Craig) drafted 
lot better than our record 

and signed by the Mariners last 
showed. It was very 

summer." 
demeaning. It was the year 

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
THE THOMAS MOORE SOCIETY OF NOTRE DAME and THE OFFICE OF FAMILY LIFE DIOCESE OF FORT WAYNE-SOUTH BEND present 

Helen Alvare 
The National Spokeswoman for the American Catholic Bishops on Abortion 
on 

tJ1£[B@IT{IJQ@[}:!] IT{Q@[}{)IJ~ LlJ 
£fY!J® ~~~ae££[}!.1 r1Dr:B~~r1 ®rn~©C£~C£w 
Noon, Wednesday, November 6 Law School Court Room and 
tJ1£[B@IT{IJQ@[}:!J ~Q@[}{)IJ~ ID3 
£ C££IJ[X)©r!.DC£ [frn~D[f£]D~I1 [prniT{~[prne£vawrn 
7p.m.. , Wednesday, November 6 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Duke beat us. 

"That year was like a smack in our face. At Clemson, you weren't supposed to go 6-5. We had to do something to erase that. It all started with South Carolina. Once we beat them that year, we were ready to go." 
Clemson opened the 1981 season with a 45-10 victory over Wofford and then eased past Tulane 13-5. Up next was defending national champion Georgia, which was ranked No. 4 at the time. 
The two teams had split their last four games, although the Bulldogs had lost only 13 times in 49 meetings. But Clemson forced nine turnovers and beat Georgia 13-3. It was the only regular­season loss Herschel Walker suffered in his three-year career. 
With the victory, Clemson fi­nally made the national rank­ings -at No. 19. Victories over Kentucky, Virginia, Duke and North Carolina State pushed the Tigers to No. 3. 
Then came an 82-24 victory over Wake Forest in what has been called the Halloween Massacre. The triumph left the Tigers ranked second, behind only Pittsburgh. 
The next week Clemson faced No. 8 North Carolina in an Atlantic Coast Conference showdown. The game was· ex­pected to be a defensive drama and it was, with the Tigers prevailing 10-8 in Chapel Hill. 
"After the North Carolina game, that was it for us," Davis said. "We knew then we had control of our destiny.,.. I think it matured us and let us know that was the only situa­tion we hadn't been in. Once we passed that test, we were ready." 


Tuesday, November 5, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
.. 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

BILL WATIERSON \-\£'RE I t>-.'t-11, A. \l.S .. 
CIT\'ZEN, W\T\.1 NO \JOICE \N ~\lR REPRt.St:NTf>.T\\Jt. Gel\Jt.I<NMENT! 
\ 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

(0 Edward Julius Collegiate CW8714 
ACROSS 55 Soldiers 24 Opera ­
56 Ancient region of 25 Loud-voiced Trojan1 -of strength Asia Minor War figure6 Add to, as a story 57 Certain exam answer 27 Baseball hall-of­9 Horse or car 58 Here: Fr.. farner (2 wds .. )
14 Five books of Moses 59 Mongrels 28 -----square15 Flightless bird 60 Handbill 29 Term of endearment 16 Well's partner 61 Pasture sound 30 Fury 17 Fearless 62 Anchor position 31 "----Joey"18 Soak 63 Asterisks 33 War casualty19 Pitcher's statistic 64 Buildfng addition 34 Results of Binet 20 S.A .. G.. member 65 Food fishes tests 21 Small -35 Enthusiast 22 Work assignment DOWN 36 Prefix for metric 23 Of the chest cavity 38 Infants 25 Wheat varieties 1 Up (2 wds .. ) 41 Moral 26 Central Calif. city 2 Olympics symbol 44 Bandleader Louis, 28 Golf shot 3 Muse of poetry and family32 Applying an incor-4 Taste with pleasure 45 Hodgepodges 
rect name to 5 Well-known constel-46 Elevate in rank 37 -Hornblower lation (2 wds.) 47 Hairlike pro­39 Flea market find 6 Oouble-dealing jections40 Not speakin~ well 7 Punishes 48 One who comforts 42 Concerning (2 wds.) B Jury-50 Part of C.Y .. O. 43 Housecleaning aid 9 Traveler's document 51 Prefix for mural 
(2 wds.) 10 Having wings 52 Lustrous 45 Ebb 11 Polite 53 Reacts to something49 In a rush 12 Happening shocking54 Of a central line 13 Takes five 55 Ridicule 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Goldfinger." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2.. 
9 p.m. Film, "The Godfather.. " Annen berg Auditorium .. Admission $2. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Uneven Development and North­South Trade," Amitava Dutt.. Room C103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies .. 
3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Light Scattering Study of Polymer Network Formation in Supercritical and Subcritical Fluids," J. Richard Elliot, University of Akron.. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall .. 
4 p.m. November Lecture. "A Moral and Political Appraisal of the August Coup and the Prospects of Nonviolence in the U.. S.. S.. R." Ruben Apresyan, Soviet Academy of Sciences and the Moscow Center for Ethics of Nonviolence. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center .. 
7:30 p.m. Program in History and Philosophy of Science Lecture, "Herophilus of Alexandria," Heinrich Von Staden.. Lounge, Hesburgh Library .. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "The Fortepiano at the Time of Mozart: Some New Discoveries," Eva Badura-Skoda, Vienna .. 115 Crowley Music 
Hall.. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "Eagles and Sheep: Christianity and the Public Order Beyond Modernity," Nicholas Lash, Norris-Hulse Professor of Divinity, University of Cambridge, England. Hesburgh Library Auditorium.. 
·­
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Oven Fried Chicken Make Your Own Burrito Bar Baked Chicken w/ Herbs 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlets Deli Bar Pork Polynesian Waffies 
f 
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Favorites advance in first round of inter-hall soccer 

By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 

Despite the blistering weather conditions, there were no major upsets in the first round of the inter-hall soccer play-offs on Sunday. 
Wednesday's semifinals will pit first-seeded Cavanaugh against fifth-seeded rival Zahm on Wednesday. In the other bracket, third-seeded Alumni will play second-seeded Stanford. 
"The weather was just amaz­ingly cold, especially out in the open at Stepan Field on Sunday," observed Cavanaugh's senior captain Garr Schwartz. "The ground was frozen and it was hard to maintain ball con­trol; the wind caused a lot of balls to be misjudged, and it was hard to concentrate." 
While Cavanaugh just edged eighth-seeQ.ed Pangborn, 1-0, Schwartz thought his team should have capitalized on sev­eral other· opportunities. 
"We should have scored at least three to four more goals. We didn't get the breaks we 
The Observer I A. Garr Schwartz usually do, but it was enough to 
The Cavanaugh soccer team, here scrimmaging against Dillon earlier win." 
this year, advanced into the second round of the IH playoffs. 
Apparently, the weather was also a factor in Pangborn's near-forfeit. "They only had six players at game time, and the ref called a forfeit. But we agreed to wait and they eventu­ally showed up," said Schwartz. 
The dismal conditions may have induced several no-shows in the game between Bridget's Brigade and Alumni. 
"They played one man short the whole game," said Alumni captain Eric Horvath, whose team won 3-1. "Otherwise, the weather was neutralizing." 
Horvath was not intimidated by the prospect of defending the powerful Stanford offense, which tallied a 7-0 victory against El Cartel on Sunday. 
"We haven't seen Stanford, but we have a strong defense. We should be okay." Horvath noted Volker Blankenstien as the team's defensive standout in their most recent victory. 
The other game was post­poned until Monday, as Zahm took Grace 2-1. 
"We came out really strong and scored two quick goals in the first half,"said Zahm cap­tain Dan Kavanaugh. "Thank God we only play 25 minute 

Bengals change for better but Wyche is still same 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Coach Sam Wyche hasn't changed now that his Cincinnati Bengals have finally won a game. 
After the Bengals dodged three last-minute scoring threats to beat the Cleveland Browns 23-21 on Sunday, Wyche was in a contentious mood in his media briefing. 
He took more swipes at the media, with whom he's feuded during the team's 1-8 night­mare, and blasted the officials for what he called their "unbelievably inaccurate" calls. He also accused the Browns of illegal tactics. 
The win hadn't changed a thing. 
"Sam's going to be Sam," general manager Mike Brown · said. "He's bound to have jus­tice, but he's got to learn it's not always going to be so." 
Wyche gained national atten­tion Oct. 21 when he twice went onto the field during a loss in Buffalo and repeatedly screamed at the officials. One on-field venture drew a 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. 
The league later warned teams about publicly complain­ing about calls, and Wyche was on his best behavior a week ago during a 35-3 loss in Houston. He reverted to form Sunday. 
"We had to battle unbeliev­ably inaccurate work by the third team out there," he said, referring to the officiating crew. "Something's got to be done. Please. There's a bit of an odor." 
He objected to numerous calls, including the officials' de­cision to stop the clock when a Browns' player was limping off the field and the Bengals were trying to snap the ball quickly. 
"That's not the option of the official to call a time out. It was an unbelievably good call by that official because he saved that man's life," Wyche said sarcastically. 
Brown wishes Wyche would 
see BENGALS/page 18 

AP File Photo The Bengals have another reason to celebrate besides this stop of Pittsburgh's Tim Worley-they won their first game of the year Sunday. 
halves; when you get out to an early lead, you naturally start to let down and get into a de­fensive shell." 
Both Cavanaugh and Zahm are powered by their defense. The Crusaders, backed by freshman goalie Chris Fisher, have not allowed a goal by their opponents this season. 
The Moose defense, lead by goalies Brian Ceponis and Brendan Gaffey, is nearly as st­ingy. "Both of them tried out for the varsity squad and could have made it, but they weren't able to finish (due to injuries)," said Kavanaugh. 
"There's a definite rivalry between us and Zahm in all sports because we are neighbor dorms." said Schwartz. 
For Kavanaugh, the match against the Crusaders will be more than just playing a dorm with a familiar name. 
"We'll be fired up for Cavanaugh," he admitted. "When we played them last, the conditions were horrible and we were disappointed with our play. We're not worried about them; we just want to avenge the loss." 
Irish volleyball sweeps matches 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame volleyball team swept two matches this weekend from the University of Toledo and Bowling Green University. 
The Irish (16-7) trounced Toledo 15-5, 15-5, 15-4 on Saturday night, and then travelled to Bowling Green to defeat the Falcons (19-4) 15­9, 15-13, 15-11. 
Junior Jessica Fiebelkorn was the weekend star for the Irish, posting nine kills and three service aces against the Rockets and following up with 15 kills and 14 digs against the Falcons. 
Other outstanding perfor­mances were turned in by ju­nior co-captain Alicia Turner (seven digs vs. Toledo) and freshman Christy Peters (nine kills, nine digs vs. Bowling Green). 
Notre Dame's next match is 
see VBALUpage 16 

Underdogs rule as women's IH football playoffs start 
By ELAINE J.C. DeBASSIGE Sports Writer 
In the first round of the play-offs, there 
were three upsets. The semi-final games 
will be held at Stepan Field this Sunday. 
Lewis 6, Howard 0 
Experience proved to be the cutting edge in the first game of the play-offs. Lewis shutout an excellent Howard team 
..... 6-0 . 
In a battle of defenses, the only score of the game came from Allison Heidbrink. On the first play of the second overtime, Lewis ran a reverse for a 5-yard touchdown. 
Howard was not able to pass against a tough Chicken defense Sunday and settled for a Gold Division title while Lewis will play P.E. in the semi-finals. 
Breen-Phillips 12, Walsh 6 
The Blitz kept themselves in the running for the championship by edging Walsh in overtime 12-6. 

two interceptions. 
Lisa Peterson and Lynn Irvin connected twice to put B.P. on the board. The Peterson-Irvin connection iced the victory in an overtime score. 
Walsh played with enthusiasm, but B.P. has play-off experience which could have been the edge they needed to get the win. 
B.P. plays Pasquerilla West in the semi-fi­nals at Stepan Field. 
Pasquerilla East 8, Seigfried 0 
The P.E. Pyros got the win over Seigfried, but it may have cost them two key defensive players. 
In a very physical game, Nina DeLorenzo and Amy Nocero were injured. The defense pulled together to shut down the Slammers and catapult 
P.E. into the semi-final action. 
A 45-yard pass play clinched the win for the Pyros. Allison Kossler hit Kelly Dwyer with two passes to get a touch­down and the two-point conversion. 
P.E. plays a psyched Lewis team Sunday at Stepan. 
B.P. kept up with their reputation as a
The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
see IH/page 16

tough defensive team as Kelly Guerin had
The Lewis defender loses this battle in Sunday's game, but they win the war to advance 
to the IH semifinals. 






