----------------·~~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 74 FRIDAY I JANUARY 18, 1991 · .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hussein launches missile attack on Israel 
No chemical warheads reported; Israel does not counterattack 
TEL AVIV. Israel (AP) ­
Missiles struck Israel early 
Friday. causing serious 
damage and at least some 
minor injuries. the army said. 
Israelis were ordered into 
shelters and told to don gas 
masks for protection against 
Iraqi chemical weapons. 
However. an Army official 
said none of the missiles car­
rind chemical warheads. 
Israel had said it would 
retaliate if attacked. but there 
were no signs a counterattack 
had been launched. The 
United States has urged the 
Jewish state to stay out of the 
Persian Gulf war. and Arab 
members of the anti-Iraq 
coalition have warned that its 
entry could split the alliance. 
"The problem of Israeli 
rntaliation, if at all. arises," 
Israel television said. 
The first air raid sirens 
wnnt oil' in Jnrusalem and Tel 
Aviv at about 2 a.m. 
Numerous explosions could be 
heard. 
Brig. Gen. Nachman Shai, the Israeli army spokesman, said thnrn wen~ at least seven minor injuries. Police reports said at least 30 people were taken to hospitals but their conditions were not known. 
Television pietures showed buildings in a poorer residen­tial neighborhood of Tel Aviv that had been reduced to shells filled with rubble. Smoke wafted out of bomb 


ND student attacked in France 
Special to The Observer 

A female student in Notre Dame's Angers, Franee, pro­gram was beaten in the early morning Wednesday. Jan. 16 as she walked home. according to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of foreign studies programs. 
The woman was grabbed. wrestled to the ground and pummeled by a man whom she later said she had seen before. but did not know. The man spok!l to her in a language she did not understand. but thought to be Arabic. 
She said a second man ap­peared suddenly during the at­tack. apparently persuading the attacker to nee because a car was approaching. 
The student suffered cuts and bruises in the beating and was treated by a local physician. French police are said to be in­vestigating the incident. 
At a meeting of the Angers Notre Dame group Thursday to discuss safety measures in light of the Persian Gulf war. the woman described the attaek to her fellow students to dispel any rumors surrounding it. She said she had no evidence to link the incident to the situation in the Gulf. 
Meetings on safety have been held for students in all of the University's European foreign study programs, said Charles. 
Iraqi Scud Missiles Strike Israel 
-%t Gaza Strip 

JORDAN 
ISRAEL 

ISRAEL  
EGYPT  ~·IRAQ  
SAUDI  
ARABIA  
25 miles  
~  
25km.  

craters. 
An American official in Washington, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said Israel has the right to defend itself. His comment appeared to signal that the United States would understand if Israel struck back. 
The official also repeated 
U.S. assurances given Israel in the past few weeks that "an 

Students hold protest against war in Gulf 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 

• 
Programs abroad I page 4 

• 
Local protest 7page 4 

• 
Student war support I page 5 

• 
Media discussion I page 5 

• 
Kuwaiti envoy comments I page 6 

• 
World markets I page 6 

• 
Military reports I page 6 

• 
Washington's reaction I page 

• 
U.S. protests I page 7 

• 
American reactions I page 7 


7 
unprovoked attack on Israel also calls for an appropriate American response." 
The White House said Presi­dent Bush condemned the at­tack on Israel and "is outraged at it." 
"Coalition forces in the gulf are attacking missile sites and other targets in Iraq," Bush's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said in a statement. 
Kuwait's ambassador to the United Nations, Mohammad Abulhasan, said: "I hope there would not be an Israeli reac­tion. If there is, it complicates the matter, but we should not exaggerate the complication." 
An Israeli official in Washington, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 12 missiles hit Israel. 
The official said preliminary reports suggested that three missiles had exploded in Tel Aviv, two in the northern sea­port of Haifa and three in un­populated areas of the country. It wasn't clear where the others landed. 
It was the first time Tel Aviv or other major population centers had come under bom­bardment since' the 197 3 Middle East war. 
Initial reports said Jerusalem had been hit in the attack. Those reports could not be confirmed, and there was no indication the capital was struck. 
Pete Williams, the spokesman for U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, described the missiles as Scud surface-to-surface missiles. "It's what we've been worried about all along," he said. 
The Pentagon said a majority of Iraqi sites already had been destroyed before the attack on Israel. 
Iraq had threatened to attack Israel if it were 
subjected to attack by the United States and its allies. 
After the first missiles struck, Israel Radio broadcast instructions to take precautions against gas, "due to a rocket attack on Israel." 
"Place a wet rag at the bot­tom of the door as an extra precaution and stay near the radio to receive explanations of what is happening. We will keep broadcasting to you," the announcer concluded in English before switching to Hebrew. 
A subsequent Hebrew lan­guage translation came on, saying: "Due to a rocket attack on Israel, a general alarm has been sounded." 
About 45 minutes after the first explosion, Israel Radio said people could remove their masks. A short time later, the announcer told people in Tel Aviv and Haifa to put them back on. 
At one point, a distant rumble of planes could be heard over Jerusalem, but it was difficult to tell where the planes were flying to or from with windows sealed against possible chemical attack. 
Israel had been under virtual curfew all Thursday in the aftermath of the U.S. attack on Iraq. Residents were instructed to remain at home and keep their gas masks with them at all times. 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Associate News Editor 
In a rapid response to the on­set of the Gulf war, the Gulf Crisis Action Group held a rally and protest Thursday declaim­ing the Bush Administration's military actions. 
A crowd of over 200 gathered at the Fieldhouse Mall to hear speakers from the group and others voice their opinions of the Gulf war. 
"We have come here to protest this war," said Janet Meissner, co-coodinator of the Gulf Crisis Action Group. "It does not serve our interests or objectives, and will be a disas­ter for us." 
"It was wrong last week, it was wrong yesterday, it was wrong last night and today, and it will be wrong tomorrow," she said. 
"We must express our anger at our president, who has put us into an unjust war, and we grieve for all those who have lost their lives, both American and Iraqi." 
Meissner said that through­out the war, we must support each other and our troops, and that the best way to support the troops is to bring them home. She asserted the democratic right to stand up against the war and to voice opinion. 
"We cry out against this war, we will not support it and we demand an end to it," she said. 
Meissner then called attention to the Peace Memorial in Fieldhouse Mall, mentioning those who had died before in war. Members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group erected a makeshift fifth column, marked "Kuwait," in memory of those who have already died in this conflict. 
Other students had opportu­nity to speak as Meissner opened the platform. "The name 'Operation Desert Storm' is appropriate," said one stu­dent, "as every bomb we drop sows the seeds for destruction. 
"We will not give in to war and violence. It is wrong to wage war when our vital inter­ests are not at stake," he said. "Our strength and commitment to peace will be tested, and we will not waver. We call for peace and justice, and for the president to end the war now." 
Others voiced support of the Bush administration's actions, saying that we owed support to both the president and the troops. They mentioned the atrocities of Saddam Hussein and that he has to be taken from his role as dictator, and that our responsibilities were to free the citizens of Kuwait. 
One such person was from the Middle East, where he said his family lived and wanted Saddam out of power. He said that he had talked to "the common man" while in the Middle East and that most peo­
see PROTEST I page 4 


An anti-war rally, coordinated by the Gulf Crises Action Group, was held yesterday at the Fieldhouse Mall to protest the implementation of Operation Desert Storm. Co-coordinator Janet Meissner (left) condemned this action by the U.N. coalition force as wrong. Pictured in the far left is a makeshift column set up by the Group to commemorate those Americans and Iraqis who have already lost their lives in the conflict. 


--------~ ~­
----------------.­
page 2 Friday, January 18, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Students 
abroad should 



not panic 
I arrived at school--------­. one morning in April, 
1986, to discover the 
sign over the gates 
identifying us as 
"TASIS England, 
American School" 
was gone. 
Talk on campus was 

of nothing but Presi-Alison Cocks 
dent Reagan's deci­

sion to bomb Editor-in-Chief Libya, following a series of terrorist inci­dents linked to Libya's leader, Colonel Qaddafi. Although British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher openly supported the President's decision, a sizable chunk of the populace was furious that she had involved Britain in America's feud. Suddenly it wasn't chic to appear Ameri­can. Students were advised to travel in groups, particularly in London. Varsity ath­letes were told to put away their letter jack­ets, since wearing them made Americans more identifiable. Americans were knifed, threatened and beaten in London. One girl in the small town of Cobham was raped and murdered, supposedly because of her na­tionality. Some of the members of our small Ameri­can community wished themselves Stateside, away from the long arms of Libyans seeking vengeance. I can imagine how many of the Notre Dame students now studying in Europe must feel. Although there is more worldwide support for Bush's action now than there was for Reagan's decision, anti-American sentiment is evident once again. One student in the Angiers program has already been victimized because of her citizenship. That's quite an introduction to Europe. Although they're undoubtedly nervous, the best thing these students can do for now is stay put. Associate Provost Isabel Charles indicated, in a memo sent to their parents, that "life is currently normal and we expect it will remain so." The directors of Notre Dame's foreign study programs have decided that, for now, the battlefield is confined to the Persian 
Gulf, and that there is no reason to worry 
about staying in their host countries. While 
these students should be more cautious 
when they go out than their predecessors 
needed to be, they will still enjoy studying 
abroad. 

In 1986 we were told not to draw atten­
tion to ourselves as Americans. We rolled 
our eyes, but became self-conscious in pub­
lic. It was the best thing we could have done. 
Not only did we avoid trouble, we were forced to adapt to England's definition of fun, which was, in itself a valuable and amusing experience. After the panic died, we had not only escaped with our American hides intact, we had learned a lot about the British. 
These students, too, can still be glad they're in Europe. They will be warned if it becomes truly dangerous for them to stay. When they do get home, they might be proud they stuck it out. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 

News Systems Brad Galka Cesar CapellaKevin Ryan Paul Froning 
Accent Circulation Robyn Simmons Bill O'Rourke Charmaine Martinez Matt Novak 
Michelle Devers Photography Sports Sean Farnan Rolando de Aguiar Viewpoint Production Michael Krause Melissa Cusack Jeanne Blasi 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 18. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
A

® © t~~ ~ [IrJ 0 Exxxj 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
There will be bowling and recreation today and tomorrow for old and new Logan volunteers. Van Pick­ups will be at the usual time. For more information, call Janet Kunst at 284-5090 or Sally Greene at 283-3783. 
Dillon Hall will be continuing its STB Booksale in the Dillon Pub tonight from 7 to 10 p.m. and tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. A significant number of books are still available. 
WORLD 
The Kremlin promised Thursday not to seize the Lithuanian parliament building but wary Baltic residents said they feared a crackdown while the world watches the Persian Gulf war. In Paris, the European Community threatened to cut off all Soviet aid, including emergency food supplies, if Moscow continues its hard-line tactics with the Baltic republics. Both Lithuania's Baltic neigh­bors, La~via and Estonia, were reported calm Thursday. The official Tass news agency said the Soviet military and Estonian officials had reached agreement on the con­tentious issue of conscripting Estonian youths into mili­tary service. Forcibly annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940, The Baltic republics are now seeking independence, though Lithuania has been far bolder than Estonia or Latvia. 
NATIONAL 
_The Bush administration gave regulators permis­swn Thursday to renegotiate savings and loan bailouts concluded in 1988. The move was designed to save tax­payers up to $4 billion. The deals, by the since-disbanded Federal Home Loan Bank Board, are expected to cost taxpayers an estimated $69 billion by the end of the decade. Because the bank board had no cash to rescue failed. i!lstitutions, it arranged for them to be bought by promlSlng government aid to the new owners. An over­sight b?ard, he~de~ by Treasury Secretary Nicholas ~rady, iSsued gmdehnes Thursday granting the Resolu­twn Trust Corp. authority to renegotiate the deals. But t~a~ would requir~ the government to spend up to $22 bllhon to pay off its assistance agreements early. Early payment would save the government from paying interest on its obligations. 
Yesterday's high: 29 
Yesterday's low: 25 
Nation's high: 78 
(Santa Ana and Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: -12 
(Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: 
Mostly cloudy and not as 
cold during this afternoon 
with highs in the middle 
30s. Continued cloudi­
ness tonight. Lows from 
the middle to upper 20s. 
Mostly cloudy and 
warmer tomorrow with a 
30 percent chance of light rain and highs around 40. 

©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
There will be a mandatory follow up meeting for all students who participated in the Urban Plunge over Christmas break on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Students will be taken to faculty and staff homes for discussion and will be returned to campus by 10p.m. 
Two adventurers landed their hot-air balloon on a frozen lake in far-northern Canada on Thursday to com­plete a record-setting journey of more than 6,000 miles across the Pacific. British magnate Richard Branson and Swedish co-pilot Per Lindstrand landed the craft in such poor weather conditions -blowing snow and tempera­tures of minus 13 degrees-that their rescue 150 miles west of Yellowkife was delayed several hours until they could be airlifted out. Branson and Lindstrand were re­ported in good condition after being picked up by heli­copter 100 miles from civilizaton. The balloonists set a speed record of 198.8 mph, flight officials said, and their 196-foot balloon was the largest ever launched. They left Wednesday from Miyakonojo. a southern Japan town, and landed in the wilderness less than 48 hours later. 
Researchers announced a treatment Thursday to reduce bacterial infections in some children infected with the AIDS virus. While not curing the youngsters, the treatment could improve their quality of life. Monthly doses of intravenous immunoglobulin, or IVIG, were found to decrease significantly the occurrence of serious, sometimes life-threatening bacterial infections in children whose immune systems are weakened by the AIDS virus, officials at the National Institutes of Health said. These infections include pneumonia, sepsis, meningitis and si­nusitis, which often result in prolonged hospitalization. Although the treatment is not a cure for pediatric AIDS, the results of this study do suggest that IVIG does have value in the prevention of some serious complications in some HIV-infected children. 
CAMPUS 

Martin Luther King Day will be observed at Notre Dame by a prayer service Monday at 7:30 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The service is enti­tled "We All Have a Dream: Through Peace to Service in Discipleship with Christ." It will include a "media reflection" based on the late civil rights leader's life and witness, readings from his speeches and writings and personal testimonies of Notre Dame students. Music for the event will be provided by Notre Dame's Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble. The prayer service is sponsored by Notre Dame's Office of Campus Ministry. 
MARKET UPDATE 


it 5.98 S&P Composite A 327.97 1:f 11.80 Dow Jones Industrials 2,623.51 :.0.114.6 
Precious Metals 
Gold ~ $4.20 to $404.50/oz. 
Silver + 1 .3¢ to $4.235/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On January 18: 

e In 1788: The first English set­tlers arrived in Austrailia's Botany Bay to establish a penal colony. 
eln 1912: English explorer Robert Scott and his expedition reached the South Pole, only to discover that Roald Amundsen had beaten them there. Scott and his party died during the re­turn trip. 
e In 1919: The World War I peace Congress opened in Versailles, France. 
e In 1943: During World War II the Soviets announced they had broken the long Nazi siege of Leningrad. 
eln 1956: In Berlin, Parliament approved the creation of East German People's Army. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, January 18, 1991 The Observer 
ND receives $5 million in grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $5,698,881 in grants during December for the sup­port of research and various programs. Hesearch funds to­taled $5,283,656, including: 
•$3,912,000 
from the U.S. Department of Energy for re­search on the effects of radia­tion on matter done by re­searchers in Notre Dame's Ha­diation Laboratory. Principal investigator is Robert Schuler, director of the Radiation Labo­ratory and Zahm professor of radiation chemistry. 

•$184,201 
from the National lnsititutes of Health for re­search by Subhash Basu, pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­dwmistry, on glycolipid mntabolism in normal and pathological tissues. 

•$135,000 
from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for a faculty de­velopment program adminis­tered by Frank Bonello, College Fellow and associate professor of economics. 

•$100,106 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Malcolm Fraser, associate professor of biological sciences, on transposon mutagenesis of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses. 

•$99,999 
from International Business Machines for research by David Cohn, professor of elnctrical and computer engi­nHering, on distributed and parallel computing. 

•$96,200 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by A. Graham Lappin, associate professor of chem­istry, on stereoselectivity in electron transfer. 

•$88,319 
from Oxychem Tnchnology Center for research by Charles Kulpa, associate professor of biological sciences, on bioremediation of soil. 

•$68,513 
from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration Lewis Research Center 





Pizza 
Delivery & Carry out As near as your phone 
271-0200 
1740 South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 
FREE DELIVERY 
PIZZA SIZES: 10", 12", 14", 16" toppings: 
Black Olives  Green Peppers  Mushrooms  
Canadian Bacon  Ground Beef  Onions  
Green Olives  Jalapeno Peppers  Pepperoni  
Morning Bacon  Pineapple  Sausage  
Tomatoes  Anchovies  Ham  


for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of. aerospace and mechanical engineering, on aerodynamicas and aeroacous­tics of nonuniform flows. 
•$63,720 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Fraser, on transportation mutagenesis of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses. 

•$50,000 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Flint Thomas, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on turbulence be­havior in shock waves and the turbulent boundary layer. 

•$50,000 
from Union C..bide for research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering, on optimal cata­lyst activity in distributions in pellets. 

•$44,992 
from Argonne Na­tional Laboratory for research by Patrick Dunn, associate pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on ther­mofluid and particle dynamics. 

•$38,000 
from Corporate Re­search Laboratory and 3M for radiation chemistry research by 

J. 
Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland chair and professor of science, chemistry and biochemistry. 

•$30,000 
from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Theodore Cachy, assistant professor of romance languages and litera­ture, on an Italian history of the New World encounter. 

•$30,000 
from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Ethan Haimo, chairman and professor of mu­sic, on Arnold Schoenberg and the birth of atonality. 

•$30,000 
from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Carlos Jerez­Farran, assistant professor of romance languages and litera­tures, on the theatre of Fed­erico Garcia Lorca. 

•$27 
,600 from DataTrek Corp. for high speed modem re­


search by Ruey-Wen Liu, Freimann professor of electri­cal engineering. 
•$24,999 
from Reynold Alu­minum for hydrogen sensor re­search by Charles Alcock, Freimann professor of electri­cal engineering. 

•$25,000 
from Whirlpool Corp. for cold storage option research by Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 

•$15 
,000 from the Ford Foundation for research on building democratic institutions in Latin America by Timothy Scully, assistant professor of government and international studies, and Scott Mainwaring, associate professor of govern­ment and international studies. 

•$8,000 
from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology, on two volumes of the biblical Qumran (Dead Sea) Scrolls. 

•$6,000 
from United Health Services for biochemical studies of human colon carcinoma and prostate tumor cells by Basu. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $20,225 from Insitec for a PCSV optical system used in research by Dunn. 
Awards for other programs total $395,000, including: 
•$385,000 
from Lilly Endow­ment Inc. to enhance inter-in­stitutional cooperation between academic libraries in Indiana, administered by Robert Miller, director of University libraries. 

•$7 
,000 from IBM for the technical gifts program, admin­istered by Gary Bernstein, as­sistant professor of electrical engineering. 

•$3,000 
from the Wilbur Foundation for the Dublin slums program, administered by Kenneth Moore, associate professor of anthropology. 


page 3 


The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

Storm supported 
This sign, pictured hanging on the outside of Cavanaugh Hall, reflected what recent nationwide polls have shown to be the popular American sentiment. 
Woman sports journalist will speak at Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Jane Leavy, former sports journalist with the Washington Post and author of the novel "Squeeze Play," will speak Jan­uary 29 at the University of Notre Dame on women in sports journalism. 
The lecture, "Sportswriting: A Woman's Place," will be at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Leavy earned her bachelor's in English in 1974 from Barnard College and her mas­ter's in journalism in 1976 from Columbia University. She worked ten years at the Wash­ington Post, from 1979 to 1989, the first five years in sports and the second five in "Style." 
Her novel, about a woman sportswriter covering baseball 

I.F. INTERNS-a two year extracurricular career de· velopment program in the growing field of compen· sation and benefits-is now considering applicants for 1991-1992 summer internship opportunities. Career opportuniti.es in this area are vast. They include positions in accountancy, communications, com· puter science, human resources, insurance, invest· ments, law, marketing and consulting. 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid posi· tions with firms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educational seminars in Chicago or Milwaukee during the academic year. Positions available primarily in Chicago, Milwaukee, Cleveland and St. Louis. 
I.F. INTERNS is for the energetic sophomore seeking to channel academic excellence towards specific career goals. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. Deadline for applications is January 30, 1991. 
Additional information and applications are available: 
Career and Placement Services Memorial Library 
in the nation's capital was pub­lished in 1990 by Doubleday and is being made into a major motion picture. She currently is working on a second novel. 
Leavy did her master's thesis on the Pulitzer Prize-winning sports reporter Red Smith, a 1927 Notre Dame alumnus, and contributed the results of her research to Notre Dame's Red Smith collection. The collection is a part of the Hev. Edmund P. Joyce Sports Research Collec­tion, which is located in the Hesburgh Library. 
Her lecture is sponsored by the University Libraries, the Joyce Sports Research Collec­tion, the Friends of the Library, the Year of Women committee, and the Department of Ameri­can Studies. 
-
page 4 



Letter sent to students abroad 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
In light of the volatile situa­tion in the Gulf, a letter ad­dressing safety concerns has been sent to all Notre Dame foreign study program partici­pants and their parents. 
The letter, dated Jan. 16, was written by Isabel Charles, asso­ciate provost and director of foreign studies programs, and offers precautions for the stu­dents and reassurances for parents. 
The University has been in contact with all on-sites direc­tors this week, according to the letter. "As of this writing, at all sites the situation is 'business as usual' and work continues in the normal pattern," wrote Charles. 
She reassures that all direc­tors are in contact with the U.S. embassies or consulates. Some extra security measures have already been taken including a security person hired to screen entry into the London facility. 
"...In the unlikely event of the necessity of recalling students to the U.S. from any interna­tional site, the University will arrange the safest possible transportation, will house stu­dents appropriately for the re­quired period, and work out 
plans  for  obtaining  a  full  
semester  credit,"  wrote  
Charles.  

The letter asks that students observe the following precau­tions suggested by the State Department to all Americans overseas: 
•
Be alert and pay attention to anyone who may be observing you; 

•Exercise 
caution when in or near U.S. military or civilian facilities; 

•Walk 
away from trouble. Keep a low profile. 

•Take 
the same precautions you would take at home. Don't give out your identity to un­known callers. Don't go in un­safe areas alone or after dark. 

•Should 
hostilities begin, keep informed through radio and television broadcasts. 


The letter also advises stu­dents to avoid large interna­tional airports or other places where Americans are known to gather, like McDonalds. 
Much of the responsibility for safety depends on the individu­als themselves, according to the letter. "Keeping out of trouble depends largely on you and your actions." 
The letter also offers sugges­tions about appropriate desti­nations for vacations and means of travel. Locations such as Jerusalem and Cairo are off limits to students because of State Department warnings. 
"We are mindful of the safety and welfare of all our students and will make every effort to make this international experi­ence an important contribution to their growth and develop­ment," wrote Charles. 

Givl' to tht· United Way. 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
11'ATI8 G:OUlt HOU 


Local protest held against military strikes 

By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
Chants of "No blood for oil" and "Give peace a chance" characterized a demonstration held in downtown South Bend Thursday protesting the United States attack on Iraq and Kuwait. 
A crowd of approximately fifty people gathered during the afternoon rush hour in front of the United States Court House on the corner of Jefferson and Main Streets to express their objections to Operation Desert Storm, which commenced on Wednesday evening. 
The prevailing attitude of the protesters was that the United States is fighting an unjust war over oil, with sanctions and ne­gotiations given insufficient chance to avert the events that were initiated on Wednesday evening. 
Fran Heidinger, who lived in Holland during World War 1\vo, said that "violence will never settle anything" and that she did not have much faith in the negotiations that took place previous to the military action. 
Heidinger said U.S. troops should not have been in Saudi Arabia, and believes action such as Desert Storm will cre­ate a trend where "more and more we will 
on violence to 
A FAMILY COMEDY WITHOUT THE FAMILY. 


HOME lffil -lliiAt1)Ne 

4:30-7:15-9:30 

settle conflicts," rather than peaceful alternatives. 
Another protestor, Gary Tu­torow, stated that he was "outraged by the acts of our president,"which have "made us mercenaries of oil interests." Tutorow said that the U.S. still has not "come to terms with Vietnam." 
Tutorow also said that there was an opportunity for the "New World Order" often cited by President Bush before the conflict, but that the attack on Iraq and Kuwait has caused that ideal "to slip through our fingers." 
Notre Dame sophomore Jeff Mazurek said that he didn't think sanctions and negotia­tions were given enough time, and that "concessions [to Sad­dam Hussein] would not have been necessary" if these alter­natives had been continued. 
Mazurek and fellow students junior Juan Wolf and sopho­more Marty Miller said they would not cooperate with a draft and would likely declare themselves conscientious objec­tors. 
Protestors took turns briefly expressing their objections to Operation Desert Storm by mi­crophone, while others held signs such as "War is Obsolete" and "Find New Energy Instead of It." 
Sc.hwarzenegger 
Kind9rgarten 




COP~ 

4:45-7:30-9:45 
Friday, January 18, 1991 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
ple wanted Saddam's reign to be over. 
Senior Jeff Long said that there are many reasons, both political and spiritual, why the military action in the Gulf is wrong, but that he mainly hoped that the troops come home safely. 
Some speakers mentioned the lack of television network con­cern for coverage of the loss of life in Iraq or Kuwait, question­ing the role of the press and its responsibilities. Mter watching news updates for hours and seeing no estimates of Arab deaths, they called this lack of coverage "shocking." 
A representative of the Michi­ana Coalition for Justice and Peace said, "We are outraged and appalled at this action in the Gulf, and we call on the president to end it." The repre­sentative said that we have a moral responsibility in this war, and that the government is threatening the very New World Order it speaks of. 
Meissner closed the protest saying that the Gulf Crisis Ac­tion Group has a commitment to continuing the dialogue on the situation in the Gulf. 

Other images provided by the protesters were a makeshift casket with an American flag on it, flags being flown at half­mast, and one individual with a skull mask holding a sign with a peace symbol. 
Only one counterprotester was present for much of the demonstration. Joseph Szaley, a Hungarian veteran of World War Two, shouted "Do you want to kill my son?" at the protesters. Szaley passionately argued for the President's ac­tions, and suggested the protesters were compromising the efforts of troops in Saudi Arabia such as Szaley's son who is in the army. 
Szaley drew parallels between Hussein and Adolph Hitler, stating that unchecked, Hussein was capable of the magnitude of atrocities that Szaley witnessed during World War 1\vo. 
There was various reactions from both pedestrians and au­tomobiles passing the demon­stration. Cars supporting the protest honked their horns as they passed by, while those against shouted profanities and accused the demonstrators of being un-American. 
More counterprotesters ar­rived near the end of the demonstration. The young South Bend residents called the protestors "hippies" and "un­American." One of the youths had enlisted in the Marines in the past few days due to the Iraq conflict. 
A Vietnam veteran stated that the anti-war demonstrators were "uninformed" and were merely reiterating what college professors who protested against the Vietnam conflict had told them. He said protests such as the one held yesterday plant seeds of doubt concerning American support in soldier's minds, no matter how small. 
The protest ended without in­cident after approximately an hour, with the dwindling of the rush hour traffic and the de­parture of the television media. 

Every Sunday The Nation's Hottest Rock-N-Roll Bands 
Just north of State Line on US 33 For more information call Ritz concert hotline 684-0746 
11 uti IIIIer ad•itted 
A Ritz VIP Production 


jan.27th-Allisynn Payne Feb. 3rd-P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend 



1 
j 
j
Friday, January 18, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page 5 
j 
I 
I 
Many students support U.S. actions 
By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
While anti-war demonstra­tors have made their presence known on the Notre Dame campus, students in support of 
u.s. involvement in the Gulf are by no means non-existent. 
"I'm definitely in support of what President Bush is doing," said Tom Bowes. chair of Col­lege Jlepublicans. 

Supporters of the involvement said that too often the reasons for the war are simplified by those who oppose it. "They paint it as much too much of a black and white picture, of a war with blood for oil," accord­ing to Mike Moreland, sopho­mom. 
"It's much more complex than that that, especially when you count the United Nations involvement." 
.Sanctwns· were gtven more· 

than enough time to take effect, 
and more time wouldn't have 
solvnd thn conflict, according to 
Bowes. "The shortage of food 
won't starve him [Saddam) or 
his soldiers, but innocent peo­
l " P ~any students said that they fnel thn general consensus on eampus is one of support. "Most people I've talked to are for the action," although not pro-war, said senior Joe Webb. 
"I think it's hard to gauge, but I'd guess that the majority [of studnntsl are in support," said sophomore Scott Bonhnen. 
I, 1 W · · 'd h
,,. . ets, a semor, sat e 

b I. 1 t' t among
e wvns t w sen tmen 

students is one that war was tho final option. Bowes said that he honors 
the right of others to hold dis­
senting views about the neces­
sity of the war, but believes 
even the anti-war groups 
should not abandon support for 
the troops. He said that 
Thursday's anti-war protest in 
front of the Peace Memorial 
was "inappropriate" because 
the memorial is, "a place to 
honor those who've fallen in 
war." 
Other supporters indicated that demonstrations will send troops a negative message. "They have their right to speak their piece, but I don't think they're going to accomplish anything, and I don't really ap­preciate it," said senior Mark Budde. 
"I think that's the wrong message to send to the troops," he added. Budde believes that soldiers may interpret the col­lege demonstrators as indica­tors of a much larger force of opposition in America. 
Claiming to support the troops by asking President Bush to bring them home is, according to sophomore Bill Hunnicutt, "demoralizing." To truly support the troops Bunni­cutt believes people, including the anti-war groups, must not doubt the necessity of their presence. 
Although demonstrations may be the means for students to show their opposition to the war, supporters say they doubt any pro-war rallies will sur­face. Bernard Mendoza, senior, said he believes the sentiment on campus is definitely one of support, but that voicing the support is another thing. 
The College Republicans are 
not planning to organize any 
reaction at this time beyond the 
possibility of writing a letter to 
The Observer to affirm their 
position, according to Weis. 
Senior Tom Ehrhardt, editor 

of Dialogue, said he found little 
need for an organized rally of 
supporters. 
"What would a support rally 

be?" Mendoza asked. Besides 
praising the government and 
offering support to the troops, 
such type of demonstration 
would be awkward, he said. 
Moreland agrees that sup­porters don't necessarily need to blow their own horn. "It's kind of the nature of anti-war demonstrators to always be louder, to be more likely to protest," he said. 
Moreland believes that those who back President Bush rec­ognize the serious tone of the situation, hence the absence of any organized response. "Supporters recognize that it's a serious manner without a lot of fanfare, without a lot of cheering. None of this gives way to demonstrating." 
Hunnicutt shares the senti­ment about the rhetoric in­volved in demonstrating against the war. "The only way they can gain credibility is through a massive protest. It's been like that throughout history with minority viewpoints," he said. 
"I don't think there's a need to come out and loudly say that I support it, because it should be assumed that I would," Hunnicutt added. 
f h " 

Ehrhardt was one o t e 1ew
d h · 

supporters who sai t e anti­war demonstrations have been positive. "They're a pretty 
..----------------------.. healthy sign," he said of the
students' outpouring of con-
SHONEY'S DOESN'T 
SERVE FASTFOOD 
BUTWE DO 
SERVE FOOD 
~·· 

'. . ',,~

( , ·&r."'
~~(,'' -. ? I • 
.... ~ ~.7' .>} ~ 
~ o. ~ 
\.\-c?(:/(.J ; 
"--'' 0~ ,-J 
~ ~, ~)>--­
'--~...:-//
r<'---\<.\-­
/ ~· 
.J.; ~ '-·-·" 
\~ )\ ,/ ,;::::..:·
/'-...._-c~ \ I/.~-~""'-;,;·~
~--.. 1_~1 
-d 
Real food, Fried Shrimp. Country Fried Steak, Charbroiled Chicken, Shrimp and Steak. Breakfast made to order, or All -You-Care -To-Eat Breakfast Bar. Desserts like straw­berry pic, hot fudge cake, sundaes, cheesecake. All at a. realis­tic price. Next time Fast Food seems to be the only chOice, think again. Think Shoney's. 
SHONEYS 
RESTAURANTS 
U.S. 31 at 1-80/90 Toll Road (Next to ature Inn) 
Notre Darne Students & Faculty 10 (i( discount \\'ith your college I.D. 
cern. ''I'd be a bit worried about Notre Dame if we all went on studying and doing nothing." 
11Je ~ ad .utt ~t-MJ. ad uu4 ~· 
ACCES"SORIES -REPAIRS -LESSONS 

GUITARS -AMPS 
CRATE · ALVAREZ-YAMAHA WESTONE ·TAYLOR 

Role of media in Gulf War discussed at SMC 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The American public is not 
receiving an accurate portrayal 
of the hostilities in the Persian 
Gulf due to the subjective cov­
erage of the nation's news me­
dia, according to several pro­
fessors at Saint Mary's. 
At a meeting of Popular Cul­
ture Thursday night, Andrew 
Cutrufello, assistant professor 
of philosophy, said, "America 
has ·become subject to propa­
ganda. We see staged views of 
the war and it (media coverage) 
has become almost like a mini­
series. It is a different sort of 
soap opera." 
The CBS News viewing prior to the discussion threw mind­boggling numbers at the audi­ence. For instance, over 1000 aircraft bombs have been dropped on the same number of sites. An additional 1 00 cruise missiles have been used for the first time. What CBS failed to mention, said Bill Tourtillotte, visiting professor of art, is that each missile costs one million dollars. 
Tourtillotte said he thinks that radio has been more two-sided than television. The public gets too taken in by the "blue bubbles in the desert and re­tired generals in uniform." He described the television broad­casters as "people with no in­formation who rehash it for hours." 
Robert Ladrech, assistant professor of political science, justified the abundance of news coverage by saying that people are watching "to see what the conflict is all about." Popular belief is becoming that the elimination of Saddam Hussein would make the world right 
241 DIXIE WAY N -US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north ol ) ( 
St. Mary's Coll119e Roseland 

MON-FRI. 12:00 NOON-6 pm CALL for SAT. hourt1 
I 212-1s1o I 
DICK WISNER . OWNER ~ 

again. "By focusing on 
Saddam, (we) have made this 
a personal war. It is an 
historical event," he said. 
On the personal level, DI­
anne Rothleder, adjunct pro­
fessor of philosophy and jus­
tice, brought out a reality that 
the media has ignored. "The 
media gives no sense of the 
bombing," she said. "We 
didn't hear of (Iraqi) civilians 
dying. 
"On 1V, Baghdad is a speck on the map, but it is really a large city of four million peo­ple. In the United States, it would be the fourth or fifth largest city. When a bomb is dropped, many civilians are being affected." 
Rothleder also expressed in­terest In the way President Bush has referred to Operation Desert Storm as the liberation of Kuwait instead of calling it a war. 
John Wright, visiting assis­tant professor of religious studies, said that by going In on the 16th, it was aetually Saddam's decision to wage war since the U.S. set a deadline. "If we went in two weeks from now, we would btl starting a war." 
Cutrofello said the purposfl of the meeting was not to trivialize the war, but to discuss how the media was presenting it. He hopes other social groups will join discussions to express po­litical and ethical views, in ad­dition to the group's cultural views. 
Popular Culture is a campus organization consisting of pro­fessors and students that meets regularly to discuss issues of the media and its role in society. 
,,,, ,, II~ 
~,:,t)
Give to the United Way.
• 

IF.!\ travelmore 
"i?? CarlsonTravel Network ATTENTION FACULTY,STAFF,STUDENTS 
Please visit our new location at 1723 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank·s Red Hots) 
New Hours: 8 am .-5:30 pm Monday--Friday 
Please call284--2051 or 1--800--232--2681 
236--2656 Saturday only 9 am--12 noon 
STOP BY AND REGISTER TO WIN 2 FREE TICKETS ANYWHERE IN THE CONTINENTAL U.S. WINNERS TO BE ANNOUNCED AT OUR GRAND OPENING. 

page 6 OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Friday, January 18, 1991 

-Coalition may be threatened by Israeli involvement 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Kuwait's U.N. ambassador said the missile attacks on Israel could threaten the carefully crafted, U.S.­organized coalition against Iraq. 
"Surely, it might cause a problem, but I hope that the United States will take care of that and control the Israeli re­action," Mohammad Abul­hasan, Kuwait's permanent representative to the world body, said late Thursday. 
U.S. and Arab diplomats have expressed concern that if Iraqi President Saddam Hussein drew Israel into a Mideast war, the coalition might unravel because Arab 
Markets react to Gulf attacks 
NEW YORK (AP) -The 
U.S. stock market soared to its second-biggest gain in history and oil prices crashed Thursday, but Japan markets began reversing the gains on reports that Iraq had fired missiles on Israel. 
Markets gyrated wildly in Tokyo early Friday amid uncertainty over how the attacks on Tel Aviv and Jerusalem would affect the Persian Gulf war. 
Stocks tumbled in Tokyo on the initial reports from Israel and then climbed back again. The dollar rose against the Japanese yen, and oil and gold prices also gained some ground. Prices of U.S. Treasury issues traded in Tokyo headed down. 
The events marked a dra­matic turn from trading Thursday in the United States, where markets were jolted with optimism after lightning air strikes on Iraq turned five months of anxiety into financial euphoria. 
The Dow industrial average of 30 stocks leaped 
114.60 points to 2,623.51. That was surpassed only by an 186.84-point increase on Oct. 21, 1987, two days after the stock market crash. Crude oil prices plunged more than $10 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Ex­change, causing a temporary halt in trading. 
But the attacks against Israel began to erase the enthusiasm that grew on feelings that a short war would not depress markets or destabilize world oil supplies. 
"A longer, nastier war could very well involve rising oil prices, ballooning the 
U.S. federal budget deficit and heightening inflation," said Mike Casey, international economist with Ramirez Capital Consultants Inc. 
The dollar moved as high as 135 yen in Japan from 
132.80 yen at the opening. The dollar closed at 132.30 yen in New York. 
The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average shed early gains of more than 400 points and headed into negative territory before climbing again. At the end of morning trading, the Nikkei was up 
229.58 points from Thursday's close at 23,676.39. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Pentagon's sophisticated Pa­triot missile shot down an Iraqi rocket in flight Thursday in its first test in combat conditions as the American military threw a full array of high tech weaponry into the day-old Persian Gulf war. 
Officials reported the loss of only one Navy pilot in more than 1,000 sorties, but Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and others cautioned against undue optimism. 
Officials identified him as Navy Lt. Cmdr Michael Spe­icher, 33, whose F-A-18 was based on the USS Saratoga in the Red Sea. 
Pentagon officials said the Patriot, so complicated that it took 15 years to develop before going into production 11 years ago, an Iraqi missile fired into Saudi Arabia. It is a surface-to-air missile that rides a radar beam to its target. 
Iraqi attacks on Israel and Saudi Arabia were made possible when U.S. warplanes failed to knock out all Iraqi missile launchers, senior officials said. 
Israel was given the Patriot recently, but has not yet brought it into service. 
Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said the Scud attacks would change U.S. tactics "not very much," but he said air strike missions are going after SCUD launchers and in "the next couple of days there are going to be intense air operations." 
"It's very difficult to know where all the mobile 
Attention New &Old Logan Center Volunteers 
There will be Bow ling and Rec. this weekend. Van Pickups at the usual time. ?'s: Janet @ 284-5090, Sally @ 283-3783 
Chln..e-Amerlclln Rntaurant & Cocktail Lounga Authentic Szectluan, Mandarin & Hunllll CUisine 


Lunches starting at--.--$3.95 anquet rqom Dinners starting at----$5.45 
vailable loru 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days
10 200

--::=:-==-..1 Mon.· Thuto. I 1:30 Lm.lo 10 p.m. Fri.· Sid. 11:30 Lm.lo I 1 p.m. 272-7371 Sun.&Holidayo11:3JO:m.lol0p.m. 
130 DIXIe W•y 1., Iouth Bend (next 10 RandaU's Inn) 
... 
launchers are," he said. 
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said 80 percent of the 1,000 air sorties during the first 14 hours successfully delivered their payloads and that 100 sea-launched Tomahawk cruise missiles performed nearly flawlessly. 
''I'm pleased with the initial results," Powell said. 
One U.S. official said the air strikes had taken a significant toll on Iraq's chemical and nuclear facilities. 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., after a briefing for lawmakers by Cheney and Powell, said: "We've not only knocked out their eyes and ears and cut up their nervous system ... but we've struck directly at their weapons of mass destruction." 
Late Thursday, a senior Pentagon official said the number of sorties had risen to more than 1,100. 
''I'm convinced Beethoven could not have orchestrated anything as well," said Rep. Ike Skelton, D-Mo., an Armed Services member. 
"It's even more devastating than I thought," said Defense Appropriations subcommittee member Norm Dicks, D-Wash. "We'll know in a couple of days whether they can take this hit." 
The Pentagon official con­firmed reports that some allied troops had been on the move but said no U.S. forces had crossed the Saudi-Kuwait border in pursuit of the Iraqis. 

Desert Storm Day One At·A·Giance 
Here are the latest developments in the Persian Gulf war: The Pentagon reported the first American casualty of the Persian Gulf war, an F-18 pilot whose plane was lost during more than 1 ,000 allied sorties against Iraqi targets in the first 

14 hours of combat. 
President Bush called the initial phase of the Persian Gulf war a success. After meeting with congressional 
leaders, Bush and most top officials of his administration 
attended a prayer service at Fort Myer that was arranged 
by evangelist Billy Graham. 
As war began, two of the largest and most unruly demonstrations were in San Francisco and New York, where crowds estimated at about 5,000 each lighted 
; bonfires, marched, chanted and carried protest signs. Fourteen people were arrested in a Washington, D.C., protest. 
-Baghdad radio claimed Iraqi anti-aircraft units downed 14 attacking planes, but American officials said it was an* * * exaggeration. Britain said one of its fighter-bombers was lost, with its two crewmen missing. France said four of its planes were struck and one pilot wounded. 
-
Saddam survived a night of fire that rained down on his capital. As the smoke-shrouded day dawned in Baghdad, Saddam said in a radio message, "The mother of all battles is under way!" 
On the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow Jones industrials gained 86 points to nearly 2,600 at midday. ~=== Volume was extremely heavy and a rule prohibiting some : computerized trading kicked in. 
Crude oil prices collapsed in their biggest one-day fall in history. In London, the March price for North Sea Brent Blend, an important grade of crude traded in Europe, fell $8.47 to $20.50 a barrel by late afternoon. 
In Moscow, a Soviet Foreign Ministry official said President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had urgently appealed to 
Saddam to pull his troops from Kuwait after being told of the United States attack an hour before it occurred. 
&~ 
Israel's military command ordered citizens to stay indoors 
•: and prepare their gas mask kits, but there were no immediate "' signs of a threatened Iraqi attack. 
AP/Carl Fox 

simplY,
··the Jjcst. 
'TANNING 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED T~MEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND. IN 
members would see Israel, not Iraq, as their main enemy. 
In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said: "There have been Scud launches into Israel. It's what we've been worried about all along." 
A military source in Washington said the missiles were launched from western Iraq. 
"I hope there would not be an Israeli reaction, if there is, it complicates the matter, but we should not exaggerate the complication," Abulhasan said in a telephone interview. 
"This should not change the coalition against Iraq. It has a task and it will fulfill its task whether Israel interferes or not." 
Israeli Mission spokesman Yuval Rotem said it was "clear that Israel had taken a huge risk upon herself by refraining from a pre-emptive strike. It is a big risk that no other country, knowing the severity of the situation, would have undertaken." 
The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith called the missile barrage "a savage, unprovoked attack on Israeli civilians." 
Abraham Foxman, national director of the league, said, "This confirms our worst fears. Saddam Hussein was playing 'possum.' 

He said Israel has every right to retaliate swiftly and completely, adding, "This confirms the need for the anti-Iraqi coalition to stay together." 
Algeria had urged the United Nations on Thursday to work for a "pause for peace" in the Persian Gulf war, but U.N. officials and diplomats said no prospect existed for an early cease-fire. 
Earlier in the day, U.S. Am­bassador Thomas Pickering said U.S. and allied attacks will be escalated if Iraqi President Saddam uses chemical or biological weapons, but Iraq can escape further destruction if it retreats from Kuwait. 
Algeria's ambassador in Washington, Abdelrahmane Bensid, conveyed a message from President Benjedid Chadli to Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar pleading with the world organization to work for peace. 
Bensid later told reporters, "Whether it is a cease-fire, or suspension of hostilities, we want a pause for peace." 
But Perez de Cuellar said diplomacy had failed, and that "for the time being, I don't think that it's time for diplo­macy ... It depends on Iraq, whether Iraq capitulates." 

U.S. leaders pleased with initial military results 
-----------------------, 
Friday, January 18, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page 7 
~~---------~-----------~--~­
Bush orders fresh wave of air strikes against Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush condemned Iraq's missile attack on Israel as "further aggression," and the White House said bombers from the Desert Storm alliance had been dispatched Thursday night for a fresh wave of air strikes against Iraqi targets. 
Military officials said Iraq also had fired a single missile toward allied forces in Saudi Arabia. The missile was de­stroyed by a Patriot ground to air missile in its first combat test, but even so the overnight Iraqi retaliation ended the eerie quiet from Baghdad that followed Wednesday night's commencement of war. 
Throughout much of the day, official Washington was expressing unbridled satisfaction with the war effort, and Bush vowed, "We will prevail." But there was a sense that Iraq would eventually come out fighting, and the administration threatened to intensify the campaign against Baghdad if it used chemical or biological weapons. 
The day's optimism was punctured by Iraq's missile 
Thousands protest war around the United States 
(AP)-Demonstrators blocked federal buildings and rural bridges Thursday as anti-war protests turned into civil disobedience in many parts of the country. Hundreds were arrested, some in confrontations with support­ers of the war. 
In some eities, passers-by tauntnd protesters with chants of "Move to Iraq." In Georgia, legislators angrily walked out on an anti-war speech in the stat1~ I louse. 
A poll taken Wednesday· night for ABC News and The Washington Post after President Bush announced bombing raids found Amerieans approved by a 76 to 22 percent margin. The random sample of 545 adults had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points. 
In San Francisco, riotous demonstrations escalated into rock-throwing and shouted obscenities. Police arrested about 600 people early in the day, breaking a human chain around the federal building by swinging batons at protesters' hands as chants of "No war, no way, don't go to work today" echoed in the plaza. 
Later in the day. police sur­rounded about 500 more demonstrators blocking Pine Street near the Pacific Stock Exchange, advising the activists they were under arrest. 
A few of the demonstrators were backing the military. 
"We're not supporting war, we're supporting troops," said Tim Farrelli, 17. a Petaluma High School student. "We don't want them to come home and be spit on like they were in Vietnam." 
In Washington, 14 people were arrested near the White House after two protesters were clubbed by U.S. Park Po­lice and others threw rocks and bottles. A rally and march by about 5,000 people in New York was punctuated early Thursday when a car slammed into protesters on the Brooklyn Bridge, injuring seven. The driver was charged with drunken driving. 

If you've set your stghts on law school. there's no better LSAT preparauon than Stanley H Kaplan 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes wnh score-raising strategies and techmques We'll help you master everythmg I rom Analyncal Reasonmg to Readtng Comprehension 
Our classes are live-and lively. And you can review lessons. and get JdditJonal help as needed 111 our TEST-N-TAPE" lab. open days. evenmgs and weekends lor your convemcnce. 
Visit our Center today and see lor yourself. 
And W<Hch the scales tip in your favor 

! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. SOOTH BUID AV£. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272--4135 2/9/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 1/21/91. 
attack on Israel. "It's what we've been worried about all along," said Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "The president is outraged at and condemns this further aggression by Iraq." 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had vowed in advance to answer American hostilities with an attack on Israel, a bid to widen the Persian Gulf war and tempt Arab nations -Syria and Egypt among them -to desert Desert Storm in favor of a holy war against the Jew­ish state. 
Secretary of State James Baker quickly phoned the am­bassadors of several key na­tions, including Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Syria and Israel. 
He also called Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and "assured the prime minister that the United States is con­tinuing its efforts to eliminate this threat," Fitzwater said. 
Israel did not immediately retaliate, much to the administration's relief. Fitzwater emphasized in his statement that the "coalition 
forces in the Gulf are attacking missile sites and other targets in Iraq." 
Zalman Shoval, Israel's am­bassador to the United States, said his country reserved the right to retaliate, but answered with a non­committal smile when asked if it would do so. "So far the State of Israel has paid the dearest price of any other countries in the Middle East which had faced Iraqi ag­gression, except Kuwait itself," he said, noting that the Jewish state is not part of the anti-Iraq coalition. 

A police officer tries to take away a banner from Mike Bianchi as Bianchi took part in an anti-war protest outside Robert Giaimo Federal Building in New Haven, Conn. Thursday. About 25 people, including Bianchi, were arrested in connection with the protest when they sought to block the doors of the building. 
America settles into reality of war 
(AP)-For many Americans, realization that the country was. finally, at war, brought a strange sense of release and a willingness to dig in despite likely sacrifices. 
The nation, however, was far from united Thursday, and reports of the first American death in combat -a pilot whose plane was shot down -fueled mounting fear and frustration. 
"I don't know where my boys are," said Carol Thompson of Friend, Neb., who has three sons stationed in the Persian Gulf. ''I'm just worried to death. It's got to be hard for everybody who has children over there." 
Reaction to Iraqi missile at­tacks on Israel was swift from Jews and Jewish leaders. 
"We think it is a very cow­ardly act on Saddam Hussein's part to send missiles into residential areas," Ken Schiner, international president of B'nai B'rith, said from his home in Baltimore. "Unfortunately, he is the kind of person who has no morals or ethics or anything like 

that."  
The  Jewish  service  
organization  has  a  half­ 
million  members  in  46  
countries.  

Thursday night, Esther Attia, 37, who is an Israeli, sat in a corner of a New York City deli clutching a cup of coffee. 
"You have to fight the fear," said Attia, whose family is in Israel. "I hope that it will be like a miracle and we'll wake up tomorrow and nothing will happen." 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25, 1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
fO]"========================:!I 
page 8 The Observer 
DOMINO'S PIZZA TOP 10 PICKS 

Domino's Poll  
UNLV  11-1  
Arkansas  15-1  
Indiana  14-1  
Ohio State  14-0  
North Carolina  13-1  
Arizona  13-2  
Syracuse  14-2  
Duke  12-3  
Kentucky  12-2  
Oklahoma  13-2  
Call about our 30th Anniversary Special!  Employment Opportunities Available.  
MONDAY-TUESDAYSPECIAL  : ·  SUNDAY DOUBLEFEATURE  · :  ANY DAY SPECIAL  
: 1 ~ I  Ge$4t~~~~~~ f~ppi!~ $499-"0" 91¢ each. Good on Monday Md•• Valid ~I pa~flng stores only: Not valid With any o~er offers. qustomer pays sales tax where aw/icable tv,:,ed=~8 t~en~~~~!:~a~-~~!'ev:'s carry less than $20.00.  :1 1 ~ I  Get two Small $599one-topping pizzasfor $5.99. Good Sun~y~~• Valid ~I partl~ting stores ~ly Not valid with any ~r otters. qustomer pays sales tax where applicable. llt:e:!::'e~=i~~ :~~-~~~::.rs carry less than $20.00.  II 1 ! I  Get two Large $10 95 : one-topping pizzas 1 fm$109~~!0Vahdat partictting stores only. Not valid With any other offers. Customer pays sales tax l'ltlere applicable. hve1:r~:: ~~~= :,..~a~·:rve~~ carry tess than $20.00. 1  

L------------__.!!~~~-_1.------------_G~~l/~1--_..l_------------~1!!!!'~9.!..._-_j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 l835SouthBendAve. 289-0033 816PonageAve.
11:>1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
.... :~ ...
I • 

Viewpoint 
page 9
Friday, January 18, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .....•.......•. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor •••.••••••.•••••.•...Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Old 'NORL[) QRDfR New WORLD~ 
In My Opinion  
By Rick Acker  
A great deal was said over  
the past month or two about  
tho price of war. Depending on  
thn opinion of the speaker, we  
wnre given high or low casualty  
nstimatns. long or short  
nstimates of the length of a war,  
and high or low cost estimates.  
We were then asked: Should  
America pay the price of war?  
Opponents of war said no, we  
should not pay "blood for oil."  
Advocatf)S of war said yes, we  
must reverse this "naked  
aggression." This is half of the  
proper debate. The other half  
surrounds the question: Should  
America pay the price of  
peaee?  
Bdore discussing the price of  
peaec, an examination of sanc­ 
tions is in order. Sanctions have  
benn touted as a bloodless  
solution to the Gulf conflict for  
some time by anti-war forces.  ences between the Nicaraguan  
Unfortunately, they are wrong.  and South African situations on  
The problem is best summed up  the one hand, and the Iraqi sit­ 
by William Webster, the head of  uation on the other.  
the CIA: "There is a chance  First, unlike Iraq, large ma­ 
that sanctions might work-in  jorities of the South African and  
three years or so."  Nicaraguan peoples supported  
This estimate is corroborated  the goals of sanctions:  
by the KGB and veteran  democracy and capitalism in  
diplomats in Baghdad. During  Nicaragua and racial equality  
that time the international will  in South Africa. In Iraq, on the  
to maintain a huge army in  other hand, most observers re­ 
Saudi Arabia will decline, the  port that the invasion and an­ 
rape and pillage of Kuwait will  nexation of Kuwait were very  
continue, and Hussein's stature  popular with the Iraqi people.  
in the Arab world will increase.  Second, unlike Iraq, neither  
Three years would be far too  Nicaragua nor South Africa  
long to wait for "a chance that  were true dictatorships: in  
sanctions might work."  both countries about a fifth of  
Moreover, there is no reason  the population had a say in  
to think that sanctions would  government (South African  
actually drive Iraq out of  Whites and Nicaraguan  
Kuwait. Sanctions advocates  Sandanistas). Iraq, on the other  
point out successes such as Nicaragua (where sanctions  hand, has a brutal dictatorship much like the late Noriega  
took eight years to work) and  government in Panama. Harsh  
South Africa (where sanctions  sanctions were in place against  
took five years to work). There  the Noriega government for  
are at least two crucial differ- well over a year without any  

positive effect. Also, the Panamanian people opposed Noriega's attempts to stay in power, while the Iraqi people support Hussein's attempts to keep Kuwait. History shows that sanctions will probably fail against Iraq. 

There is not even evidence that sanctions will weaken Iraq's military in the near fu­ture. Thanks to America, France and the Soviet Union, Iraq has large stockpiles of ammunition and spare parts left over from the Iran-Iraq war. Based on this and other evidence, the Democratic-con­trolled House Foreign Affairs Committee correctly concluded in a white paper published near the end of December that sanc­tions were almost certain to fail. 
What is the price of peace? The only way to get peace now, of course, is to meet Hussein's terms (pullout from Kuwait in return for a Palestinian home­land and Iraq not having to pay reparations to Kuwait), which is difficult enough to stomach. But that would be only a small part of the price we should pay. The real price would be paid in at least three ways. 

First, we would pay in the currency of Arab trust. Moderate Arab nations like Saudi Arabia and Egypt have always viewed America as something of a pointed stick: He who relies on it for support will get hurt. Arabs have long believed that the only country in the Middle East which America will really support is Israel. When King Farouk of Egypt was falling, America did not help. When the Shah, a loyal American ally, was being overthrown, America would not lift a finger. But let Israel be at­tacked, and America pours in billions in military aid. If we are unwilling to fight now, we will prove the Arab cynics right. 
Second, we would pay in the currency of our children's blood. We might be able to pre­vent war in the short term by pulling out, but we would be guaranteeing a much bloodier war or wars in the long term. Hussein and Hussein wannabes would quickly learn the Lesson of Kuwait: America and her allies will bluster and threaten in response to naked aggression, but will not actually fight. Hussein is not the only expansionist dictator, and Iraq is not the only large aggressive country with a small weak neighbor. Wars of aggression would break out in the Middle East and elsewhere, and either we or our children would eventually have to go fight. If we do not stop Husseinism now. we will have to stop it later when it is stronger. 
Third and perhaps most im­portant, we would pay in the currency of justice. There are those who think that America should not be "the world's po­liceman." But, as the Iraqi in­vasion shows, the world needs a policeman, and we are the only ones strong enough to fill that role. If we are willing to meet Hussein's peace terms in order to save our own money and skin, then we are shirking the responsibility which our power gives us. We would be sacrificing justice for temporary safety. If the strong are unwilling to die for justice, the weak are certain to die without it. 
The price of war will be high, but the price of peace will be higher still. Indeed, as colum­nist Charles Krauthammer put it, the price of peace is "defeat by tape delay." Many Americans, myself included, will be unwilling to pay that price. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 





Dr. Malcolm Sayer (Robin Williams, right) brings Leonard Lowe (Robert De Niro) out of his catatonic state and into the world in "Awakenings." 
r 


Williams, De Niro get cheers (and tears) for 'Awakenings' 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 

W 
hen asked about the script for his newest film "Awakenings," .Robin Williams said, "I was 
reading it on an airplane and 
was so moved that I started 
sobbing. It happened twice. The 
person next to me thought I 
was having a nervous 
breakdown." 
Williams isn't the only one 
who was brought to tears after 
hearing the story of Leonard 
Lowe (Robert De Niro), a man 
lost for decades in a sleep-like 
state who miraculously awak­
ens when given an 
experimental drug by Dr. 
Malcolm Sayer (Williams). 

Viewers will have a difficult 
time keeping dry eyes during 
this film based on a book 
written by Dr. Oliver Sacks. 
The film is set in 1969 in the 
Bronx's Bainbridge Hospital 
where Dr. Sayer, a reclusive 
neurologist, goes to serve pa­
tients affiicted with neurologi­
cal diseases. After spending 
most of his career working in 

laboratories, Sayer is uncom­
fortable with his first few en­
counters with "real" patients. 
Although this film is set al­

most entirely in the hospital, it 
is well-paced and easily draws 
in the viewer. Williams, who 
proved his ability as a serious 
actor in the 1989 hit "Dead Po­
ets Society," shows his versatil­

ity in his role of a doctor who is 
unable to open up to people. De 
Niro, too, shines and gives a 

performance that rivals Dustin 
Hoffman's "Rain Man." 
After becoming frustrated with the inconclusive diagnoses on a group of patients who are in zombie-likP states, Sayer de­cides to dedicate himself to finding out more about their condition and possible cures. 
After thorough reading of medical files, Sayer finds a common link between all the patients who are among the "living dead." He discovers that at the time of admittance, all the pati1mts were post-en­cephalitic, surviving vktims of a sleeping sickness epidemic that swept the world during the 1920s. 
Sayer, determined to help these patients who have been "asleep" for 30, 40, or even 50 years, fights to treat them with an experimental new drug. Leonard Lowe becomes the fo­cus of the film, as he is the first patient to try out the drug. 
After experimentation with the dosage of the drug, Leonard Lowe awakens and becomes reunited with his mother. De Niro's performance is outstanding during the tender moments when Leonard is reunited with his mother. 
Williams and De Niro com­plement one another as they discover together the true value of life and friendship. There are many lessons to be gained from this film, including the value of human interaction and friend­ship. 
Soon Dr. Sayer receives per­mission to give other patients the drugs and they, too, experi­ence "awakenings." One can't help but feel excited as the pa­tients formerly considered "hopeless" wake from their slee in state. 
f 
As the patients run around singing, dancing and enjoying life onrt' again, the true mes­sage of this film hits home: life is too short and too precious to waste. We are reminded to value even the smallest things in life, like a walk on the beach. 
Although this film is very sim­ilar to "Charly" with Cliff Robertson, the acting of Williams and De Niro combines with a' powerful script to make this movie anything but ordi­nary. 
Remember, though, this one's a true story, with no Hollywood ending. So do see "Awakenings"-it's one of the best films of the season-but don't forget the Kleenex. 
'Not Wit po 
By ROBYN SIMMONS 
Assistant Accent Editor 

W 
ith the Persian Gulf on ev­erybody's m i n d , Hollywood has given moviegoers one more reason to worry about that re­gion of the world. 
War-torn Iran is the setting for "Not Without My Daughter," an intense film based on writer Betty Mahmoody's struggle to escape from her husband with her daughter and return to the United States. 
The film opens in Michigan, where Betty (Sally Field) and her Iranian husband Moody live with their daughter Mahtab. Moody is a doctor at a local hospital, but the anti-Iranian sentiments of his fellow doctors and pressure from his family in Iran turn his thoughts back to his homeland. 


~--~--~1 
page 11 

-,.
• 
or 
r 

Johnny Depp shines with only a few lines 
in elllotional 'Edvvard Scissorhands' 
By ROBYN SIMMONS on, Edward even tries his throughout the movie, his spend the day gossiping until Assistant Accent Editor "hand" at dog grooming. characterization will keep the their husbands arrive home 
audience involved in his story. from work at the exact same 
S 
uburbia may not bn In the midst of all the atten­Other standouts in this film time. 
ready for Edward tion Edward receives from the are Dianne Wiest as the kindly At times Edward's appear­
Scissorhands, but nPighhorhooo housewives, the Avon lady who introduces Ed­ance seems quite normal in 
moviegoers will enjoy only person he really wants any ward to the entire Avon line of comparison with some of his 
this quirky teenage attfmtion from is Peg's daughter bases and moisturizers; and neighbors. With the exception love story about a mechanical Kim (Winona Hyder). Un­Anthony Michael Hall as the of the young people, everybody man who has scissors instead of fortunately, Kim has a very jealous boyfriend with an atti­else in this movie dresses as if it hands. jealous boyfriend (Anthony tude, proving that he has come were 1965, which adds to the 
Edward (Johnny Depp) is the Michael Hall). a long way from his geek roles film's dreamlike quality. creation of an old inventor The love triangle setup may in "Sixteen Candles" and "The The unusual setting of the (Vincnnt Price) who dies before sound familiar, but "Edward Breakfast Club." film is a perfect backdrop for he can complete his work. Ed­Scissorhands" is far from ordi­the story, and the story itself is 
ward is equipped with every­nary. A lot of credit must be Probably the most charming humorous and touching at the thing that a normal human be­given to the actors, most no­aspect of this movie is director same time. It is obvious that a ing would need, except a pair of tably Johnny Depp, who uses Tim Burton's fairy tale view of lot of time and effort was put hands. more facial expressions than suburbia. The streets are lined into the production of "Edward 
Edward remains in the inven­words to ex pre;,;, l1i::. Lktrac­with boxy houses in solid pastel Scissor hands," and in this case tor's old mansion until Avon ter's feelings. Even though colors, with a pastel car in ev­those efforts have definitely lady Peg Boggs (Dianne Wiest) Depp doesn't say much ery garage. ThP housewives paid off. pays him a visit. Peg brings Edward out of the mansion and into hnr home, and his presence irnmndiatnly causes a commo­tion in her sleepy suburb. 
Dnspitn his unusual appear­ancn, thn local housnwivns dis­eovnr that Edward is quite tal­nntcd in two areas: landscaping and hairdrnssing. Edward trims all of the shrubs on the block into unusual animal shapns and gives all of the ladins bizarrn hairdos. Later 
r 


ut My Daughter' features a 
rful story and fantastic Sally Field 

oody suggests that Betty When the two-week vacation rushed, there is more than as a "backward, primitive I Mahtab join him for a two­comes to end, Moody an­rnough action to keep the view­country." The film does come k vacation in Iran to visit nounces that he is going to stay ers riveted to the screen across as having a bias towards family, but Betty is against in Iran and lind a job. Betty throughout the film. the American way of life, but She feels that it would be refuses to stay in Iran, but It is difficult to watch this film there are also a few scenes that afe for herself and her Moody informs her that she has without becoming emotionally depict the prejudice that ghter to travel to Iran as no choice. As the wife of an involved in Betty's plight. Field Iranians experience in this 
erican citizens. Iranian, Betty is subject to her does a very good job of country. oody assures Betty that no husband's will. conveying the frustration that The film paints a grim picture m will come to herself or to Betty is forbidden to use the the real Betty Mahmoody must of Iran, but "Not Without My 
tab, and he swears on the telephone, and Moody's family have felt when she was faced Daughter" is based on a true Koran that they will return keeps her under constant with the possibility of being story. The real Betty Mah­he United States after two surveillance. Betty manages to separated from her child. moody was literally trapped in .ks. escape to the Swiss embassy The film might be a little dif­Iran by her husband, and and learns that being married ficult to swallow for viewers of Field's performance will enable 
hen Betty and her family to an Iranian man automati­Iranian ancestry. On more than viewers to put themselves in e In Iran, they are greeted cally makes her an Iranian citi­one occasion Iran is referred to her place.oody's family with an out-zen, and if she does decide to ing of emotions and bou­divorce her husband, Islamic s of flowers. However, the law dictates that Moody will ural and religious differ­automatically gain custody of lS are difficult for Betty to their child. 
st to; she is told to wear nic dress and keep her hair The rest of the film charts .red at all times. She also Betty's attempts to flee Iran ·es that some of Moody's with her daughter, and even 
ives have a great animosity though the last ten-minute se­
trds her. quence of the film seems a bit 

The Observer
page 12 

Is war in the nuclear age a Christian option? 
Last Sunday morning, in Lon­don, I heard a 50-year-old monologue from World War II about a charlady whose house was destroyed by a bomb, which also broke the legs of her 15-year-old son, Alfie. As she considered the bombs raining down on her boy, the charlady's comment was: "That 'itler, 'e's a bad loser." 
Will Saddam Hussein be a bad loser? Will George Bush be a good winner? Would it shock you if I answered: "Who in hell cares? A plague on both their houses?" 
War hype tempts us to de­scribe Saddam as a mad man. Bush, representing a kinder, gentler America, presumably has his eyes fixed on a thou­sand points of light. If I were a political animal, I could join the chorus of Bush-bashers who are asking if this war is going to be fought to prove that the American president is not a wimp. 
Is it politics to envision a sur­vivor, visiting a cemetery where the fallen armies of this Persian Gulf crisis are buried, asking, "Was this war really neces­sary? Was Hussein the only criminal guilty of war crimes?" 
In the great catastrophes which overtake the human race, you see, the great temptation is to ask, "Who's to blame? Who can be put on trial? Who can be punished for this sin against the human race? Who could have saved us from the suffer­ing and deaths?" 
The temptation to want to 
kick butt in high places may be 
childish, unfair, and unjust, and 
could turn me into a raving lu­
natic, but Bush may be re-
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the Covenant He had made with the Chosen People. 
War could tempt a saint to agnosticism, if he didn't believe in a God who suffers and weeps with His children. Church mem­bers who resort to prayer in their hour of trial shouldn't be mocked for asking God for peace, as the families of ser­vicemen did this week, but maybe they have their hearts set on the wrong kind of mira­cles. 
In our vigils, we tend to ask for the miracle of God's 11th hour intervention. Maybe crisis­intervention isn't what God wants to be famous for. Chris­tians of shallow faith seem to have the idea that God stays on duty to take mankind down from the cross. When He dis­appoints them, they become cynics and skeptics who com­plain that He must be dead. 
Prayer isn't very pure when it tries to manipulate God into getting our backsides out of a bind. That kind of prayer tries to pressure Him as though He were a politician doing us fa­vors because he needs our ap­proval. 
Look at the chief actors of the mess we have gotten our­selves into. Old Saddam is one of the world's most notorious bad boys. Mr. Bush is a Yalie who prays on the telephone with the head bishop of his Church, asking God to send peace. As Chief Executive, Bush wants peace, but not peace at any price. As the leader of the free world, war, for him, is al­ways an option. 
Maybe the truth is that in a nuclear age, war can never again be an option a Christian leader should consider. 
Armageddon may come, but should it come because the president needs to save face? Is this unfair? I didn't invent the idea. People on all sides are saying: "Bush has backed him­self into a corner, and now must fight. He has no other choice." Hussein is a madman who will allow civilians to die wholesale in order to save face, but he's not our boy entrusted with God's honor as a peace­maker after Christ's heart. 
Maybe we should find a peacemaker of the stripe to run for president. Maybe peace in our times will start when we love peace enough to elect an appropriately-qualified peace candidate to office, in place of the happy warriors who think it's heroic to indulge in sabre­rattling. 
We place our trust in missiles; then, in a crisis, we expect God to grant us peace, like a magician pulling a rabbit out of his hat. When Mr. Bush ap­peared on television Wednesday evening to announce the start of the shooting war, he looked presidential, and I felt ashamed of doubting him. 
I pray as a patriot that this is not the countdown to Ar­mageddon which John Kennedy had in mind when he spoke of a war in which the living would envy the dead. Maybe our strength is as the strength of 10, because our hearts are pure, though two hours earlier, I had fears that the nightmare we've been dreading all our lives might be upon us. 
May the God of battles be with us! May the time come quickly when we can serve Christ as the Prince of Peace. 

From the heart of darkness comes the surprising answer: "He's there on the cross, dying. He's hanging from the end of that rope. He's caught on the barbed wire of the battlefield. He's dying of thirst in the desert." 
Both Jew and Christian alike agree that God is the victim who prays, "My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me?" The innocence of the victim is all we see of God's face on this darkling plain. The servant is Israel, or the servant is Christ incarnate as the Man of Sor­rows, acquainted with grief. He is unable to find a hiding place, even though shelters and con­solations were promised him in Psalm 91: "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of th~ Almighty ... " 
Great cathedrals in great ci­ties-St. Paul's in London, for example, or the cathedral in Cologne-were only punished by the bombardiers a little bit, be­cause the tall spires served as landmarks, helping pilots to pinpoint nearby targets. Ruined churches are no argument against the providential, all­seeing eye of God; but a city left in ruins causes the survivors to wonder if God notices or cares. 
After the Holocaust, the Jews, seeing their patrimony, so it seemed, in ruins, literally put God on trial for violations of 

elected anyway, even if he doesn't get my vote in '92. -In England last week, preaching at peace Masses, I was visited by shades of deja vu. During the Vietnam era, I celebrated countless peace Masses. I used to wonder if all the praying or the peace vigils did the least good. Was the war shortened by a single day, or was a single life saved, because anti-war activists handed out daisies, after adding protest songs to the liturgy? 
This week, the television cam­eras visited churches where Christians were keeping peace vigils, and we saw the faces of women and children who had turned to God, to try to keep their hearts from breaking. Their prayers gave them hope, convinced as they were that God must be listening. 
Later, we saw Iraqi warriors prostrating themselves to Al­lah, asking, no doubt, for the grace to have courage as sol­diers fighting a holy war. Does the God of the nations prefer the peace prayers of Christians to the war prayers of Islam? Or is that the stupid kind of ques­tion the village atheist asks when he tries to make a mock­ery out of religion? 
A question that's as ancient as the Bible nags the believer: "What do good people do when bad things happen? Where is God then? Where is He now?" 
~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~ 
I ~ AUDITIONS FOR~~~~®£~~ I ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ Notre Dame and Saint Mary's singing and dancing ensemble ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ We need: -singer/dancers ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ -a drummer ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ -audio technician (no experience required) ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ Vocal/dance auditions will be held Sunday, January 20th ~ 
I ~ ~ ~ in the afternoon. No preparation is necessary. ~ 
~ 
~ -Sign up for an audition at 140 Fisher Hall ~ ~ 
~ 

, -Questions, call Jamie: X 3490 H 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-------~----~-------------------. 
Friday, January 18, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Australian Open takes a back seat to situation in the Gulf for players 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Love is part of the vocabu­lary of tennis, but all the talk at the Australian Open is about war. 
American Brad Gilbert and his wife worry about her brother, an Army helicopter pi­lot in the Persian Gulf. Ivan Lendl and his pregnant wife are fearful of terrorism as the players fly to tournaments around the world. Stefan Edberg calls the situation scary. 
Israel's Amos Mansdorf is flying home, shrugging off a four-set loss to Ameriean Aaron Krickstein before taking off Friday on the 6,000-mile journey just before Iraqi mis­siles hit near his home in Tel Aviv. 
"There are more important things at the moment," he ac­knowledges. "I don't have a wife or a child, but two of my cousins are paratroopers." 
Mansdorf, a 25-year-old Israeli Army reservist, knows he also could be catapulted into the war as soon as he arrives home. 
Gilad Bloom, the other Israeli player here, is staying to play a doubles match but may also re­turn to Tel Aviv this week. 
Snack-bar television screens in the stadium show bombers taking off for Baghdad and President Bush speaking at the White House, his words muffied at times by loudspeaker reports of the center court score. In the stands, fans watch the matches and listen to radios. 
Instead of banners rooting on the players, fans sport peace symbols and stickers that read, "No blood for oil." 
"The second round of the Australian Open is pretty in­significant compared to the Gulf war," says Australia's Pat Cash. "It might seem important when you are out there, but you're not going to die on court." 
Yet, there is no interruption of play, no suggestion that the matches come to a halt. Attention IS split between the war and tennis, but the games go on. 
Spain's Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, the women's sixth seed, beat American Lori McNeil 6-4, 3-6, 6-0 to reach the fourth round. Sanchez Vicario dropped only seven points in the final set and won 
Classifieds 
.____NO_T_IC_Es_.JJIL-.._w_ANT_E_o-...~1 
USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND ave and Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
••• DON'T BE STUPID ••• 
Why overpay for books ­aga1n? This time. make your first book stop 
Dillon's STB Booksale 

-Used book prices, bookstore convenience 
-Thurs., Jan. t 7 and Fri., Jan. t8 from 7-tOpm; Sat., Jan. 19 from 1 Oam-5pm in the Dillon Pub. 
-First come. first serve. No refunds. Check/cash sales only. 
Please join us in our prayer for peace at the Center for Social Concerns chapel each weekday evening at 5:15. 
Pax Christi-NO 

I LOST/FOUND I 
-HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY 
NIGHT 
THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM 
#115, P.O. BOX 1214, AND A 
BUSINESS KEY-AROUND 
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA 
FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE 
THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE 
FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK 
YOUII 
Lost: gold and pearl-face watch w/ black strap. Please call x3948. Thanks 
Lost: gold and pearl-face watch w/ black strap. Please call x3948. Thanks 
SUMMER JOBS ALL lAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR lAKE PlACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. lnlt. "R?N" If yours call x3470 & 10 color and MI. 
Roomate for two bedroom townhouse at Tulle Creek wanted. Bedroom is furnished. Contact Tim at x2506. 
VIDEO OF MIAMI PEP RALLY. Doesn't have to be perfect. Will pay going rate. Call parent collect evenings 518-273-2792 
ACCENT ON FUN! Coed sleepaway camp in Massachusetts seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all land & water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, model rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, AN. 
6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800-955-CAMP. 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER 
CHILDREN'S 

CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP 
SALARY, RM/BDilAUNDRY, 
TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST 
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK­ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, lACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, 
WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE. 
MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION TO CANCUN & PANAMA CITY BEACH I 
OrglJmze. a group or campus-wide eventl Earri Commissions & Free Tripsl Call: (800) 826-9100. 
the match on McNeil's double fault. 
Edberg, the top-seed, and Lend!, the third-seeded defend­ing champion, advanced to the third round Thursday by racing through their matches as if they couldn't wait to get off the court. 
Lendl heard of the bombings just before walking on court, and at the start of his match fans briefly chanted, "No more war. Give peace a chance." 
"That made it difficult, but once you're on the court you have to concentrate on tennis," said Lend!, who won 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-2. "We just have to hope there are as few casualties as possible, and that it's over quickly. If there are terrorist attacks I'd be worried" about traveling. 
Edberg beat Eduardo Masso 6-1, 6-2, 6-3 in less than 90 minutes. Lend! took a little more time to beat Davis. 
"He plays these crazy shots and if he's not making them you beat him two and two and if he is making them you have a tough match," Lend! said. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN lANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)­
SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL 
POOL AND lAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN lANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 
(914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
GROUP HOMES Several live-in or shift positions available working in group homes for children or adults with mental retardation. Moderate pay; challenging work. Spring interviews 
available. If you have training or volunteer experience working with individuals having developmental disabilities, send your resume to: Griff Hogan '71 RHMR 3030 West Fork Road Cincinnati, Ohio 45211 
Mary Poppins, we need you II We are two little boys. Can you come to our house in the Granger area and take care of us? We would like for you to come for 15-20 hrs. a week. Our parents are flexible and will pay you money, too. We're really nice. Please call 277-2468 or 288-6466. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION 
IN CANCUN! COLLEGE TOURS THE NATION'S lARGEST AND , MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN A FREE TRIP AND CASH. NOTHING TO BUY -WE PROVIDE EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
I FORRENT J 
FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM 
HOME NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS. 
PRIVATE ROOM, $220/MO, ALL 
UTILITIES, FULL HOUSE PRIV 
WASHER & DRYER, CLEAN ., 
HOME NEAR NO. 287-7928. 
QUAINT APTS. NEAR N.D. -furnished efficiency $225 -upstairs 1 bedroom $255 -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 deposit, references 616-483-9572 
FREEDOM I Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN TAKING OVER A LEASE AT RUNAWAY BAY, PLEASE CALL 255-7815. 
2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-3616 
Furnished efficiency -across street from bus stop $225 call Brenden x1870 
Large Furnished Turtle Creek Stud. Apt 5 min from campus $390 neg 234-1539 
I 
FOR SALE

'"========:-.J­1 

82 VOLVO, GREAT COND. PIONEER STEREO $1900 OR B/0, 272-4223 
I PERSONALS I 
Jeanne, It's been so long-how long must 1 wait for some LOVE? Whoever said war is hell was rightl Love, Arthur 
P.S. I can wait til the tide is out, however. 
Band looking for BASSIST call Greg 234-1048 or Scott 282­1557 
A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 
DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­800-638-6786. 
O.K., so we lied about the Rolling Stone thing, but we are playing tonight at Club 23. 
JESTER 

Arthur-Thanks for all your help the past couple of days. I would have gone crazy with out you. You're an awesome boyfriend and a great friend, too. Love you, Jeanne 
Yankees' Kelly signs for $900,000 a year 
NEW YORK (AP) -Center fielder Roberto Kelly, one of the few bright spots in a dismal New York Yankees' season, tripled his salary Thursday when he agreed to a one-year contract worth $900,000. 
Four other players agreed to one-year contracts on Thursday, leaving 152 re­maining in salary arbitra­tion. Players and clubs will exchange figures Friday afternoon, and hearings will be scheduled for the first three weeks of February. 
Right-hander Mark Eichhorn and California set­tled at $625,000, a $352,500 raise, and right-hander John Dopson and Boston settled at $265,000, the same salary he earned last season. 
The last two San Francisco Giants in arbitration also agreed to one-year deals. Pitcher Kelly Downs got $525,000, a raise of $100,000 over his 1990 base salary, and outfielder Mike Kingery got $362,500, a raise of$187,500. 
Also, free agent right-han­der Jeff Robinson agreed to a one-year contract with the California Angels with a club option for 1992. Robinson pitched for the Yankees last season and was 3-6 with a 
3.45 ERA in 50 relief ap­pearances and four starts. 
There are 36 free agents remaining who have not yet agreed to contracts for the 1991 season. 
Kelly, 26, hit .285 last sea­son with 15 homers, 61 RBis and 42 stolen bases, the third-most in the American League. He became the sec­ond Yankee to play in all 162 games, joining Roy White, who did it in 1973. 
Kelly had a base salary of $265,000 last season and made an additional $30,000 in bonuses. 
Eichhorn was 2-5 with 13 saves last season in 60 relief appearances, while Dopson had no record and a 2.04 ERA in four games. 
Downs was 3-2 with a 3.43 ERA in 13 games, and Kingery hit .295 with no homers and 24 RBis in 207 at-bats. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day ctassltleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. Including all spaces . 
TOP 10 QUOTES FROM MIAMI to Dutchboy, House, Bags, ' Cheeseball, and EO. 
1
. Can you get us free beer? 

2. 
Do I look like Sean Connery? No I 

3. 
AlA Beachfront Ave. 

4. 
Mr. Charmin? 

5. 
She's gonna end up on the floor soon I 

6. 
Ticklish? Very! 

7. 
I've fallen and I can't get up. Really, it's a song! 


B. Your groove, I do deeply dig I 
9. 
He's such a tenderfootl 

10. 
Pretend like you know each 


other! Love yal Lisa and Kristi 
NUCLEAR ENGINEERING AND PROPULSION 'The finest nuclear engineering training program in the world, emphasizing theory and plant operation. 
'A $4,000 bonus. 
'A $1,200 per month retainer during your junior and senior years. 
•Astarting salary of $28,000 
annually. QUALIFICATIONS 
'Must be age 26 or less at Ume of ljraduallon from an accre<lllld four-year college with aminimum 3.0 GPA. *Must have aminimum of one year of caluwlus and physics (calculus-based) with a·s· average or bet11r In allllehnlcallsdence COUfliS. 'Must be aU.S. ctllmn with correctable 20120 vision and nonnal color perception. FOR MORE INFORMATION, 
Call Navy Management Programs 1-800-527-8836 

f?ESEF?VATIONS AVAILABLE NOWI 
DAYTONA BEACH ·~-Stf9 • 
7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ...... Sf29 • 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT """' sg6'
}, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ....... SfJ7' 
7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH "M• Sf24' 
lNICHTS 
CORPUS CHRIST/ I 
MUSTANG ISLAND """sros·
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ...,Sff2' 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 
1·8DD·321·591t 
:."•("
. 
....... ~ 
·o~o~nclmq on art.Jii cMres .Jnct lt.''lgrn 01 st<~v 
THE PETERSON PARTY TOUR CONTINUESII We "Booted with Beth, "Drooled with Jules," "Got Sick with Nic," and now it's time to "GET 
TOASTED WITH TOPELI" Happy 
1· 
belated 22nd birthday, Jodi Topel! I We love you! -~ 
•' 
It's not too late to wish JODI TOPEL a great birthday! Happy 22nd,Jodil 
ATIENTION RIGHT TO LIFE: MARCH FOR LIFE IN D.C. Leave Monday from Main Circle at 
7:00 a.m. Full payment of $40 due then. Any questions, call Cathy at 1366 or Maria at 2613. Also watch for local activities. This is a time when we all must consider the preciousness of life. 
John'l<roepfl and Mike Richardson think Saddam Hussein is really cute. Tim Rogers is a skinhead. Tom Gibbons is Vanilla Ice. Blair 

-
O'Connor is a pen-iss. 
Marianne, Don't worry, I'll teach you the "­me eyes." We're going to have a blast. We can scope on all those HOT MEN WITH BIG BURLY MUSCLES we've seen. (Just don't tell Rich--Ha ha ha ha hall!II) 
Love, me 
Colleen Loeffler, You're eyes are like stars, You're as sweet as cake, Under the moonlight tonight, sweet love, we will make .... 
I'm enthralled by your charms­don't turn me down. I want to pour myself over you like a fine wine. 
All my love, A Secret Admirer 
Rich, Don't worry, you know I'm only joking. You know I would never do anything evil. Don't have too much fun with all those "loose women" you hope are there. 
Love, me 
There is no greater wonder than the way the face of a young woman fits in a man's mind, and stays there, and he could never tell you why; it just seems it was the thing he wanted . 
Melissa (news productiogoddess), Thanx for putting up with all my sh­
t. I hope we get out early (wishful thinking).Good Luckll Love, sports production goddess 

-------------------~--­
Scoreboard
page 14 Friday, January 18, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS APTOP25 NHL STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

How the Associated Pr9SS' Top 25 teams fared WALES CONFERENCE AUanUc Dlvlalon Thursday: Patrick Divialon 
w L Pet GB L10 Strk Home Away Coni w T Pte GF
t. UNLV (t1-<l) at UC Irvine. Next: vs. Long L GA Home Away DivBoston 29 7 .806 7-3 Lost2 t9-2 10-5 t9·5 Beach State. NY Rangers 26 t6 8 60 t84 153 t4-7-5 9-6-3
t2-9-3Philadelphia 22 t4 .6tt 7 4-6 Won2 t4-4 8-tO 17-7 Philadelphia

2. Arkansas (16-t) did not play. Next: va. 24 21 6 54 t69 t6t t2-9-4 t2-t2-2 7-t0-5Washington 16 19 .457 t2 tl2 7-3 Wont 10-5 6-14 9-t2 Pittsburgh
Southern Methodist, Saturday. 25 2t 3 53 2t0 t8t t5-t1-1 tO-t0-2 t2-9-0
New YOlk 15 20 .429 13 112 3-7 Lost2 8-12 7-8 9-13 3. Indiana (15-t) did not play. Next: at No. 24 New Jersey 19 19 to 48 t74 t65 t3-6-6 6-t3-4 B-t0-5New Jersey tO 25 .286 t8 t12 0-10 Lost tt 8-12 2-t3 5-t6 Iowa, Saturday. Washington 2t 25 2 44 
155 162 1t-t0-t 10-t5-t tt-9-tMiami 10 27 .270 t9 112 3-7 Lost t 7-tt 3-t6 4-17 NY Islanders t8 25 6
. 4. Ohio State (t4-0) did not play. Next: vs. 38 t32 t66 9-t4-3 7-tt-3 6-9-4 llltnols, Saturday. Central Dlvl81on Adam• Divlalon
5. North Carolina (13-t) did not play. Next: at Chicago 27 10 .730 9-1 Won7 t7-3 10-7 t6-5 No. t2 Duke, Saturday. Boston 28 t5 8 60 t76 t5·8·3
t58 tt-9-5 t0-6-3

Detro~ 27 11 .7tt tl2 tO-O Won tt t6-1 11-tO tB-5 Montreal 26 t8 5 57 t46
6. Arizona (13-2) at Arizona State. Next: al 16t t4-7-2 
t2-tt-3 t0-5-3

Mllwauk99 26 12 .684 ttl2 6-4 Wont t9-1 7-11 t7-1t VIllanova, Saturday. Buffalo 19 17 48 t49tO t63 t0-6-6 9-1t·4 5-8-4Atlanta 2t 15 .583 5tl2 8-2 Won2 t3-6 8-9 11-t4 7. UCLA not play. Next: vs. Hartford 20 22 45
(t3·3) did 5 137 157 tO-t0-3 t0-12-2 7-9-3Indiana t4 23 .378 13 4-6 Lost2 t2-6 2-17 9-15 Quebec tO 30
California, Sunday. 8 28 t35 2t2 5-t3-5 5-9-5
5-t7-3Cleveland 12 26 .324 15 1-9 Wont 8-t1 4-t4 9-15 

8. Syracuse (15-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 
Charlotte 11 24 .314 15 3-7 Lost3 8-11 3·13 7-15 25 Seton Hall, Saturday. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrie Divialon WESTERN CONFERENCE Vanderbilt, Saturday. w L T Pte GF GA Home Away Div 
9. Kentucky (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. 
Midweat Dlvlalon Chicago 4
tO. St. John's (t2-2) did n01 play. Next: vs. No. 32 t4 68 t67 t28 t7-6-2 t5-8-2 t3-6-t t6 Pittsburgh, Saturday. 59 t72 t39 t2-6-5 t4-8-2 tt-5-2
w L Pet GB L10 Strk Home Away Coni St. Louis 26 t4 7 San Antonio 25 9 .735 7-3 Wont t3-2 t2-7 18-5 Detroit 22
tt. Oklahoma (t3-3) did not play. Next: vs. 2t 5 49 t63 t70 t8-6-0 4-t5-5 
9-7-2

Utah 25 12 .676 t112 8-2 Wont 16-3 9-9 18-6 Oklahoma State, Saturday. Minnesota t3 28 8 34 t46 6-t4-4 2-t2-3
t74 5-t4-4Houston 19 18 .514 7112 4-8 12-6 7-12 11-11Lost4 12. Duke (14-3) did not play. Next: vs. No. 5 Toronto 12 3t 4 28 t35 t96 7-tB-2 5-t3-2 5-t0-2Dallas 12 23 .343 t3 112 3-7 Lost4 7-9 5-14 8-tB 

North Carolina. Saturday.Minnesota 12 23 .343 t3 112 5-5 Wont 7-10 5-13 8-16 Smythe Dlvialon
t3. Connecticut (t2·3) did not play. Next: vs. 
Orlando 10 28 .263 17 4-6 Lost2 8-10 2-18 8-20 Los Angeles 26 16
Providence, Saturday. 5 57 192 t52 tS-6-3 7-6·3
tt-10-2Denver 8 29 .2t8 t8 tl2 2-8 Wont 6-tt 2-t8 4-20 Calgary14. Virginia (11·3) did not play. Next: at 25 17 5 55 t94 t5t t3-7-t t2-t0-4 tt-6-2 

Georg1a Tech, Saturday. Edmonton 22 20 3 47 150 143 t3-8-t 9-t2-2 7-9-2Pacific Dlvlalon Vancouver t8 26 40 t79
t5. East Tanness99 State (t3-t) did not play. 4 t50 tO-tt-2 
8·t5-2 6·t3-0Portland 32 7 .821 6-4 Won2 11·2 15-5 20-5 Next: at Western Carolina. Saturday. Winnipeg t5 27 8 38 t58 t8t tO-tt-3 5-tS-5 8-5-5
Phoenix 24 11 .686 6 8-2 Won5 t4-4 t0-7 17-6 
16. Pittsburgh (t4-3) did not play. Next: at No. LA Lakers 23 11 .676 6tl2 8-2 Won4 15-4 8-7 t6-8 tO St. John's, Saturday. Thurad•y'e Gamea 
t7. Nebraska (t6-t) did not play. Next: at
Golden State 20 t6 .556 tO tl2 5-5 Won2 t2-4 8-t2 t3-t0 Boston 5, Los Angeles 3 Seattle 16 t8 .47t t3 tl2 5-5 Wont 11·6 5-t2 8-t2 Colorado, Tuesday, Jan. 22. Edmonton 6, N.Y. Islanders t LA Clippers t3 25 .342 18 tl2 2-8 Lostt t0-8 3-t7 t0·1t 
t8. Southern Mississippi (9-t) beat Tulane 64-Chicago 3, N.Y. Rangers 2 
Sacramento 8 25 .242 21 2·8 Wont 7-9 1-t6 6-t7 Philadelphia 5, Quebec t
57. Next: vs. Memphis State, Saturday. t9. Georgetown (10-4) did not play. Next: at 
Pittsburgh 6, Toronto 5, OT Wednaaday'a Gamea Boston College, Saturday. Minnesota 5, Washinglon 2 Golden State 1t0. Boston 1 05 Montreal 4, St. Louis 2
. 20.. LSU (tt-3) did not play. Next: vs. 
Cleveland toe. Miami 94 Friday'• Gamea
M1sslss1pp1, Saturday.Minnesota 93, New York 89 No games scheduled
21. New Mexico State (t2-t) did not play.
Chicago 99, Orlando 88 Saturday'• Game
Next: at Fullerton State, Saturday. San Antonio 100, Dallas 94 22.. South Carolina (t3-3) did not play. Next: All-~tar Game at Chicago, t p.m. Milwaukee t26, Indiana tt9 vs. Florida State, Saturday. Sunday • Game• 
Denver 1t1 , Charlotte t 04 No games scheduled
23. Utah (t5-t) at Wyoming. Next: at Air Force Washington 101, LA Clippers 99 Saturday. ' 
24. Iowa (13-4) lost to Wisconsin 9t-79 Next· 
Thuraday'a Games vs. No. 3 Indiana. Saturday. · · WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TRANSACTIONS
Late Game Not Included 

25. Seton Hall (tt-3) did nol play. Next: at No. 
Detroit 97, Houston 91, OT EAST
8 Syracuse, Saturday. LA Lakers at Sacramento, (n) Bethany, W.Va 72, Geneva 71 
BASEBALLBuffalo St. 74, Nazareth, N.Y. 70 American LeagueFrlday'a Gamea MEN'S BASKETBALL Connecticut 65, Syracuse 63 BOSTON RED SOX-Agr99d to terms withNew Jersey at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Delaware 58, Cent. Connecticut St. 56 John Dopson, pttcher, on a one-year contract. 

Utah at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Delaware Val. 70, Drew 52 CALIFORNIA ANGEL5-Agreed to terms withNew York at Miami, 7:30p.m. SCORES E. Connecticut St. 67, Worcester St. 62 Mark Eichhorn and Jeff Robinson. pitchers. on one­Golden State at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. George Washington 55, Duquesne 49 year contracts. 
Chicago at Allama. 8 p.m. Gettysburg 80, Lebanon Val. 64 NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms withLA Clippers at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Hammon 50, Clarkson 49
EAST Roberto Kelly, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
Charlotte at San Antonio, 8:3:1 p.m. Haver1ord 57, Widener 54
Dartmouth 94, New Hampshire 75 National League
Orlando at Milwauk99, 9 p.m. Johns Hopkins 78, Swarthmore 3t
Delaware t13, Cent. Connecticut St. 64 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms
Detroit at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. LeMoyne 75, Buffalo 72 
Hofstra 69, Md.-~lmore County 63 with Kelly Downs, pitcher, and Mike Kingery,
Seattle at LA Lakers, t0:30 p.rn Lycoming 63, Elizabethtown 47 
La Salle 94, Loyola, Md. 84 outfielder, on one-year contraels.
Washington at Portland, t 0:30p.m. Md.-Ba~lmore County 74, Hofstra eo
Manhattan 55, Niagara 52 American Association 
Mount St. Mary's 82, Fairleigh Dickenson 68
Marist 78, Brooklyn Col. 68 LOUISVILLE REDBIRDS-Named Tab
Saturday'a Gamea Muhlenberg 90, Urslnus 78 
Penn St. 83, Rhode Island 65 Brockman director ol markeling and public
New Jersey at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Nicholls St. 57, Salve Regina 44 
Rutgers 80, George Washington 75 relations. 
Utah at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Penn State 95, Massachusetts 27 
St. Francis, NY 84, Monmouth, N.J. 74 

New York at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Penn St.-Behrend 73, Fredonia St. 47
Vermont 75, Colgate 73 BASKETBALL 
Golden State at Minnesota, 8 p.rn Rutgers 95, West Virginia 77 
Wagner 75, Long Island U. 7t National B..ketball Aaaociation 
Charlene at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. St. John Fisher 62, Cortland St. 48
SOUTH INDIANA PACERs-Signed Byron Dinkins,
LA Clippers at Houston, 8:30p.m. S. Maine 76, Plyrnciuth St. 52
Ala.-Birmlngham 67, South Florida 62 guard, to a tO-day contract. 
San Antonio at Denver, 9:30 p.m. Thiel 78, Wayn98burg 67
Arkansas St. 82, Cent. Florida 76 MIAMI HEAT-Signed Alan Ogg, center, to a 
Washington at Seattle, t 0 p.m. Wagner 75, Long Island U. 65 
Bethune-Cookman 79, Howard U. 77 tO-day contract. 
Phoenix at Sacramento, t0:30 p.m. W. New England 52, Mount Holyoke 50 
Caflllbell 88, N.C.-Gr99nsboro 67 Centenary tOt, Samford 88 FOOTBALL
SOUTH Sunday'• Game Ashland 80, Kentucky St. 57
Coastal Carolina at N.C.-Ashevllle, ppd., war World Le•gue of American Football Milwauk99 at Portland, 8 p.rn Berry 70, Ga. Southwestern 6t
Davidson 92, Charl98ton Southam 78 WLAF-Named Bruce Dworshak European
Bridgewater, Va. 95, Randolph-Macon 55

NHL BOX Furman 67, Liberty 62 coordinator. 
Florida A&M 73, Miami, Fla. 65 

Georgia St. 73, Georgia Southern 72 SACRAMENTO SURGE-Named Bob Owens
Fla International 85, Georgia Southam 76 IRISH MEN'S BOX Morgan St. 75, Florida A&M 67 offensive assistant coach. 

Georgetown, Ky. 95, Union, Ky. 83BLACKHAWKS 3, RANGERS 2 N.C. Charlotte 87, Va. Common-alth 74 lnd.-Pur.-Ft. Wayne 73, Bel\armlne 72 

New Orleans 76, Lamar 66 HOCKEY 
Lamar 78, New Orleans 56

Chicago 2 1 0 -3 Texas-Pan American 90, SW Louisiana 82 National Hockey League
IRISH 80, WARRIORS 73 Lynchburg 54, Mary Baldwin 4t
N.Y. Ranger• 1 0 t -2 W. Kentucky 77, Old Dominion 74 LOS ANGELES KINGS-Assigned Jim
Roanoke 96, Randolph-Macon Woman's 25
MIDWEST Thomson, right wing, to New Haven of the
MARQUETTE (73) St. Paul's 75, Fayetteville St. 66
First Perlod-t, New York, Ogrodnlck 21 Dayton 86, St. Louis 77 American Hockey League. 
P<Mellt-50-22,Curry6-t20-0 t3, Key 1t-t44· Union, Tenn. 90, Blue Mountain, Miss. 63
(Mullen, Moiler), 4:24. 2, Chicago, Goulet t6 Michigan 79, Northwestern 68 NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Sen\ Greg Parks,
4 26, Logterman 4-tO 0-<l 9, Anglavar 2-5 t-t 6 Va. Wesleyan 60, Mary Washington 44
(Konroyd, Roenlck), 9:04. 3, Chicago, Roenlck 24 Michigan St. 71, Illinois 68 cenler, to Capital District of the American Hockey
Hay• t-3 0-0 3, Brak• 0-1 0-0 0, Zulaus 2·3 t-2· MIDWEST
(Goulet, Yawney), tO:t7. Penallies-Peluso, Chi, Minnesota 59, Purdue 56 League.
8, Mcilvaine 3-7 2-3 8, Grosse 0-0 0-0 o. Totals 30-Cedarville 78, Taylor 70
major (fighting), 8:19; Doml, NY, major (lighting), Morehead St. 98, NE Illinois 84 NEW YORK RANGE R5-0btained Joe Cirella, 
eo B-t3 73 Cent. St., Ohio 79, Indiana Tech 62 
6:t9; Lem~eux, Chi (holding), 6:49. Notre Dame 80, Marquette 73 defenseman, from the QuebeC Nordiques for Aaron 
Dayton 85, St. Louis 59

Second Perlod-4, Chicago, Larmer 30 Wis.-MIIwaukae 78, Northridge St. 63 Miller, defenseman, and the Rangers' t99t fifth·
NOTRE DAME (80) Ferris St. 67, Northwd, Mich. 55
(Chelios, Roenlck), 12:58 (pp). Penalties­Wisconsin 9t, Iowa 79 round drah choice. Recalled Tie Domi, right wing, 
s-tB-ttS-722, Rosa0-20-00, TowerS-90-2 Findlay 65, St. Francis, Ind. 56 
Roenick, Chi (high-sticking), 2:52; Manson, Chi Xavier, Ohio 100. Evansville 85 from B1nghanmon of the American Hockey League. 
t2, Singleton 4-5 7-t2 t5, Bannan 5-tO 6-8 t6, Grand Valley St. 82, Hillsdale 66 
(slashing), 5:0t; Mallette, NY, triple minor (double SOUTHWEST
Boyer 0-t 0-0 0, EDery 3-6 8-6 t3, Cozen t-t 0-0 2. Hiram Col. 66, Grove Ctty 63 
spearing, roughing), t2:40; L99tch, NY (boarding), NE Louisiana 96, North Texas eo American Hockey League
Totals 27-45 25-37 eo. Illinois St. 76, E. Illinois 58
SW Texas St. 96, McN99Se St. 7t CAPITAL DISTRICT ISLANDERS-Loaned -t7:34. 
Michigan Tach 64, Saginaw Val. St. 6t to of
Third Perlod-5, New York, Nicholls 18 Stephen F .Austin 75, Sam Houston St. 63 Dave Richter, defenseman, Albany the
Halhim&-Notre Dame 33, Marquette 32. 3-N. Illinois 9t, Wright St. 52 
(Patrick, L991ch), t1 :tt (pp). Pena~les-Peluso, Texas-Arlington 84, NW Louisiana 80 International Hockey League. Sent Alain Harvey
polnt goals-Marquette 5-t3 (Curry t-3, N. Michigan 63, Lake Superior St. 50
Chi (holding). t0:22; Miller, NY, major-game Tulsa 72, S. Illinois 67 goalie, and Phil Huber, center, to Richmond of th~
Logterman 1·5, Anglavar t-2, Hayes t-2, Zulaus 1-S. Illinois 72, Indiana St. 60
misconduct (high-sticking), t9:38. FAR WEST East Coast Hockey League. Recalled Brad Turner,
t). Notre Dame t-3 (Boyer 0-t, Ellery t-2). Fouled Tusculum 79, L99 64 
Arizona 74, Arizona St. 7t delenseman, from Richmond.
out-Anglavar. Rebounds-Marquette 30 (Curry Oakland, Mich. 74, Wayne, Mich. 60 
Shots on goal-Chicago t3-9-8-30. New Brigham Young 72, Colorado St. 55 
7), Notre Dame 27 (Power 8). Assists-Marquette Urbana 69, Thomas More 65 
Long Beach St. at Fullerton St., ppd., broken
YOlk 6-12-tD-28. SOCCER
t6 (Anglavar 5), Notre Dame t1 (Singleton 5). Xavier, Ohio 87, Evansville 63
Po-r-play Opportun~les--Chlcago 1 of 5· backboard National Professional Soccer Leegue
Total fouls-Marquette 25, Notre Dame t4. A-SOUTHWEST
New York t of4. ' Montana St. 100, E. Washington 77 CHICAGO POWER-Activated Viktor9,62t Arkansas Tech, Ouachita 58 
Goalies--Chicago, Balfour, 29-tt-3 (28 shots· Utah 90, Wyoming 83 Jakovljevlc, midlielder, from the disabled list. 
Ark.-Monticello 95, Harding 69

26 saves). New York, Richter, t4-9-3 (30-27) Utah St. 74, Pacllic U. 64 Signed Larry Sunderland, mldfielder, to a tO-day
Lubbock Christian 9t, Howard Payne 63

A-t6,078. Washington St. 99, Oregon St. 77 contract. AcqUired Sadri Gjonbalaj, midfielder, from 
S. Arkansas 74, Henderson St. 56

Referea-Denls Morel. Linesmen-Brian the New York Kick, lor cash. 
Stephen F .Austin 68, Sam Houston St. 67Murphy, Mark Vines. 

e in rsian gulf t·shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 100% cotton t-shirt. sizes: medium, large, x-large send your name, quantity and size plus your check or money order 
~HairCutting Co. for $10.00 plus $2.00 shipping and handling per shirt
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA NEXT TO VENTURE -allow 1-2 weeks for delivery dove promotions GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
-satisfaction guaranteed p. 0. box 1904 
277-7~ 

south bend in 46634
Dally9-a 
C ' 1990 dove productions
Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11· 


Friday, January 18, 1991 The Observer 
Roenick leads Hawks to victory 
page 15 

-

NEW YOHK {AP) -The Chicago Blackhawks won the battle of the NHL's top two teams Thursday night as All­Star Jeremy Hoenick had a goal and two assists in a 3-2 victory over the New York Rangers. 
The Blackhawks, leading the overall NHL standings with 68 points, spotted the Hangers an early 1-0 lead, then took com­mand to win at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nearly five years. Chicago had been 0-3-3 in New York since March 23, 1986. 
The Blackhawks, who host the All-Star game on Saturday, enter the break on a roll. They're 4-0-1 in their last five games and 7-1-1 in their last nine. 
The Hangers, who came into the game second in the overall standings with 60 points, fell to 1-3-1 in their last five games. 
John Ogrodnick put the Hangers ahead 4:24 into the game, tapping in Brian Mullen's setup pass. But the Blackhawks held the Hangers without a shot for the next 10:45 and scored twice to take the lead. 
Michel Goulet scored his third goal in two nights at 9:04, 
AP Photo 

Jeremy Roenick (27) had a goal and two assists as Chicago defeated the New York Rangers 3-2 last night. 
Mouse 
continued from page 20 
bad shots. We just need better execution and better shots." 
The senior ringleader's game has been getting better and better ever since he rejoined the team Jan. 10 against Wichita State. He was recovering from a disk injury to his back suffered against Kentucky Dec. 1. He played 29 minutes against Wichita State, scoring two points with three assists. Against Miami, he had two points and four assists in 35 minutes. His momentum continued against West 
ramming in Steve Konroyd's pass. Roenick put Chicago ahead to stay at 10:17 when he converted Goulet's passout. 
The Rangers had 10 shots in the first nine minutes of the second period, but were unable to beat Ed Belfour, who made 26 saves for his league-leading 29th win. 
The Blackhawks then capital­ized on a triple minor to New York's Troy Mallette when Steve Larmer got his 30th of the season, a deflection from the slot, at 12:58. 
The Rangers made it close with 8:49 left in the game when Bernie Nicholls pumped a re­bound over Belfour from the lower left circle during a power play. 
Oilers 6, Islanders 1 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. -Glenn Anderson had a goal and three assists, and Bill Hanford turned aside 21 shots to lead the Edmonton Oilers to a 6-1 victory Thursday night over the New York Islanders. 
The Oilers, unbeaten in their last four games, scored on three of their first five shots against Glenn Healy, who was 

assists. But there was a time 
pulled after the first period in favor of Jeff Hacket. Anderson, Ken Linseman and Steve Smith scored for Edmonton in the opening period. 
Hanford has allowed four or more goals in only four of his last 26 games. He got addi­tional scoring support from Mark Messier, Esa Tikkanen and Craig Simpson as the Oilers extended their unbeaten streak {3-0-1) as they finished a six­game road trip. 
Wayne McBean ruined Hanford's shutout bid with five minutes left in the second pe­riod by firing a 50-footer from the right point during a power play. The Islanders have won just once {1-4-1) in their last six games. 
The Islanders started the game with only five healthy de­fenseman because Gary Nylund and Jari Grondstrand came down with the flu. 
Linseman started things off with his sixth goal at 7:42, scoring on a rebound of a shot by Geoff Smith that hit the crossbar and dropped straight down behind Healy. Linseman flipped the puck into an open net. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Powell to just two points, well under his season average of 14.3. 
NOTES -Jon Ross got the starting nod for the Irish in place of Ellis, and Ellery played his usual role as the first player off the bench....The Irish shot a blazing 60 percent from the field....Bennett played the en­tire game, while Sweet and Singleton saw 39 minutes of ac­tion and Tower 37 minutes... .Key hit 11 of 14 field goals and all four of his free throw at-

Sacred Heart Church 
2nd Sunday of Ordinary Time 
lJFcoming Events 
Saturdr·:;·, January 19, 5:00 pm Fr. St~phen Newton, C.S.C. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 21 
Sunday, January 20, 10:00 am and 11:45 am Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. 
REV. J. BRYAN HEHIR Counselor for Social Policy, United States Catholic 
Everyone Welcome 
Youas~dand 
HE'S BACK... 
"THE ROLE OF THE JUST WAR IN THE PERSIAN GULF CRISIS" 
4:00 p.m.-Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Location change from Law School 
CLIFF ERICKSON 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
Tonight and Tomorrow 
at 
WALUMNI­
SENIOR

111111~~~;~~~ 
~CL.UB 
tempts for the Warriors. 
.Marquette outrebounded Notre 
Dame by a 30-27 count. 
MARQUETTE (73) 
Powell1-5 0-2 2, Curry 6-12 0-0 13, Key 11-14 4-4 26, Logterman 4-10 0-0 9, Anglavar 2-5 1-1 6, Hayes 1-3 0-0 3, Brakes 0-1 0-0 0, Zulaus 2-3 1-2 6, Mcilvaine 3-7 2­3 8, Grosse 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 30-60 8-13 73 NOTRE DAME (80) 
Sweet 8-11 6-7 22, Ross 0-2 0-0 0, Tower 6-9 0-2 12, Singleton 4-5 7-12 15, Bennett 5-10 6-8 16, Boyer 0-1 0-0 0, Ellery 3-6 6-B 13, Cozen 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 27-45 25-37 80. Halftime-Notre Dame 33, Marquette 32. 3­point goals-Marquette 5-13 (Curry 1-3, Logterman 1-5, Anglavar 1-2, Hayes 1-2, Zulaus 1-1 ). Notre Dame 1-3 (Boyer 0-1, Ellery 1-2). Fouled out-Anglavar. Rebounds-Marquette 30 (Curry 7), Notre Dame 27 (Power B). Assists-Marquette 16 (Anglavar 5), Notre Dame 11 (Singleton 5). Total fouls-Marquette 25, Notre Dame 14. A-9,621 
~,, ,, fiJ, 
~,:,~
Give to the .United Way.
• 
Jl 

Tim Singleton 
Virginia, when he played 38 minutes with four points and ten assists. 
Against Marquette, the num­bers kept climing. He played 39 minutes, had 15 points and five for concern-with about 12 minutes left in the first half his back was bothering enough to take him out of the game, if just for a minute. 
"My back was killing me," he said. "In the beginning of the game there was a lot of press on the guards and my back started hurting. At the 12­minute mark, it really hurt, and I didn't want another accident, so I took a break and it helped me a lot." 
The break, said Singleton, consisted of one minute of resting-lying prostrate on the ground behind the chairs-so his back could relax enough to get through the first half. 

page 16 The ObserVer Friday, January 18, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
-
The Notre Dame Cycling team will be holding an organizational meeting on Tuesday, Jan 22, at 7 p.m. in N.S.H. Rm. 127. If you can't make it or have any questions, call Jonathan Puskas at x3317. Anybody who is interested in riding should attend. No experience necessary! 
Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall for information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics, Friday, Feb. 1. 
All varsity women rowers -practice begins Monday at 5 p.m. at the Joyce ACC track. Any questions, call Meg at x2769 or Gerry at 289-7331. 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will begin spring practices Tuesday, Jan. 22, at 8:30 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. All beginners are welcome. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club -mandatory meeting Monday, January 21 at 8 p.m. in room 222 Hesburgh Library. New members welcome. For more information, call Karen x1715. 
The Water Polo Club will continue practice on Monday, January 21 at 8:30. Please be prompt. 
ND Boxing practices have begun for the 61st Bengal Bouts. Practices are held at 3:45 p.m. every weekday in the Boxing Room at the JACC. For questions, call Norm Conley at 233-8133. 
Bills and Raiders both preparing 
for frigid temperatures in Buffalo 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP)­If Sunday's AFC championship game comes down to a balanc­ing act, the Bills have better equipment. If it comes down to an aerial shootout, Buffalo also would seem to have an edge. 
If the game is to be won on the ground, it's advantage Raiders, although not by much if Bo Jackson can't go because of a hip injury. Defensively, things are pretty even. So are special teams. 
Then, of course, there is. the Bills' supposed biggest ally ­the weather. 
"Hogwash," Raiders defen­sive end Howie Long said, sort of. "We've got guys who have played in every kind of weather. Remember, we play in Denver and Kansas City every year and it can get pretty tough there." 
"I'm from Chicago," defensive tackle Scott Davis added, "so the weather won't bother me. I like cold weather." 
"The weather is not a factor 

No love lost between Giants, 49ers 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -It's not quite as loud or hostile as it would be if Buddy Ryan or Jerry Glanville were coaching, but there's quite a bit of yipping and yapping between the New York Giants and San Francisco 49ers as they prepare for Sunday's NFC championship game. 
"I feel it's my obligation to history not to let these guys threepeat," says nose tackle Erik Howard of the Giants, who grew up as an Oakland Raiders' fan in San Jose, about 8 miles from San Francisco's current training base in Santa Clara. 
"It's like they're walking six inches above the rest of us. Their feet never touch the ground. You hear all the hype and the commercials on the ra­dio." 
None of this, relatively mild as it may be, gets by the 49ers as they prepare for the second game of the year between the teams that were considered the best in the NFL for most of the season. 
"The Giants are talking trash about us," says San Francisco receiver Jerry Rice. 
The ill will started after the 49ers beat the Giants 7-3 at Candlestick Park on Dec. 3. As the teams left the field after the game, San Francisco defensive as much as being the visiting team," said Mike Harden, who played in some nasty stuff in Denver before joining the Raiders. "It's not even so much being the visiting team. If you're losing, you feel cold. I don't intend for that to be a factor." 

Forecasts for Sunday have varied. As of Thursday, predic­tions were for blustery, snowy conditions, with temperatures in the mid-20s. 
But even the Bills were dis­counting gaining any advan­tages from such conditions. 
"The Raiders are coming here to play for the championship and go to the Super Bowl," said Darryl Talley. "I don't think the weather is going to be on their minds. 
"We know and I'm sure they know that you have to focus on what you're doing and you can't get caught up in that or the media blitz and forget about playing football. We're 
back Ronnie Lott got into an angry verbal exchange with New York quarterback Phil Simms. 
Simms won't play this week because of a foot injury. He will be replaced by Jeff Hostetler, who led New York to a 31-3 win over Chicago last week. 
"I kind of hope they don't re­spect us," says Giants receiver Stephen Baker. "If they don't, it'll be their loss and our gain. It's not hard to get up for this
I 
ROFFLER 

PHONE (219)233-4957
SORBIE ;;;J PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
. 

ROCCQ'g grYLf gHQP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 

Products 

-Full Service Salon -Close to Campus -Tanning Bed ~ 35/month 
game or get focused." But the 49ers don't seem to be taking anything lightly. 
"When you get into a position where you're going for three straight Super Bowls, you're up for every game," says guard Harris Barton. ''I'm sure the Giants have the incentive of wanting to stop us." 
The Giants agree. 

"The incentive of going to the Super Bowl is incentive enough," Hostetler says. 
not running for president or governor -we're just in a football game. It's an important game for both of us and we're not going to lose that focus." 
The Bills certainly have proven themselves on all kinds of fields, in all kinds of condi­tions. They won in ideal weather early in the year and on frozen fields later. They went to Giants Stadium and won in the freezing rain. They outscored the Dolphins 44-34 on a frozen field in the playoffs. 
Only in the heat of Miami in Week 2 did they really falter, and such tropical conditions won't apply for at least another week, when the AFC champion goes to Tampa for the Super Bowl. 
The Raiders have not faced the horrendous conditions the Bills conquered against the Giants and Dolphins in the last month. They claim, however, they know how to deal with the situation. 
Women 
continued from page 20 

"I'll still see how the offense is going, because Margaret (Nowlin) and Krissi (Davis) are playing well," Robinson said, "but I'll also try to look for my­self a little more." 
Marquette (3-9 going into last night's game with Loyola) has struggled all year at home, winning only two of seven games at MECCA Arena. 
The Irish recently had experi­ence playing an MCC second-di­vision team on the road, play­ing lethargically in an uninspir­ing 66-55 victory over Loyola Tuesday evening. McGraw, however, believes the team "learned its lesson at Loyola." 
Robinson also thinks that especially without the lost play­ers, "We're definitely going to have to buckle down a little more; everyone's going to have to pick it up a notch, work a lit­tle harder." 
The Warriors are led by Heidi Ach (13.8 ppg, 6.8 rpg)-who was their only bright spot in the first meeting at South Bend, scoring 12 points-Courtney Romeiser (12.8 ppg, 3.3 steals) and Tammy Shain (12.6 ppg, 
6.9 rpg). 

Notre Dame held Marquette to only 26.6 percent shooting in December, which is not unusual for the Warriors. They are av­eraging only 38.1 percent this year from the field and barely above 50 percent from the foul line. Marquette also is experi­encing problems keeping pos­session of the ball, averaging 
30.5 turnovers per contest. 

Still, McGraw is not taking this game lightly. 
"We're tired. We've been on the road so long," she said. "If we get through this weekend, we'll get some time to regroup and rest." 

The Observer/David Lee 
Comalita Haysbert (23), who was lost to academic ineligibility, will probably be replaced by Sara Liebscher. 

is currently accepting applications for the paid positions of 
Asst. Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit an outline of your class schedule and a one-page personal statement to Michelle Dall at The Observer by 5 p.m., Tuesday, Jan. 22 . 
r 
CAMPUS COVERS DEl FaEE Yellow/Navy lvEar111 Reversible Twin Size Capped Comer Comforters ***Perfect for bunk beds*** only $49.99 
Cotton/Polyester*Machine Washable*Tumble Dry 
Twin Sheet Sets Available $34.99 Yellow or Navy Pimstripe 
Order by Phone l ..SQ0..462..2805 QUILTCRAFT 1933 Levee Street • Dallas, Texas 75207 
~ 
.~ ~
........... ,,.-........................, .... ....... .. 
The Observer 

Friday, January 18. 1qq1 page 17 
Georgia Tech, Penn State will play in Classic 
EAST HUTHERFOHD, N.J. (AP) -Georgia Tech, which shared the national college football title with Colorado in the wire service polls, will play Penn Slate on Aug. 28 in the Kickoff Classic at Giants Stadium, officials said Thursday. 
Georgia Tech posted a 11­0-1 mark this season, including a 45-21 victory over Nebraska in the Florida Citrus Bowl. Penn State was 9-3, dropping a 24-17 decision to Florida State in the Blockbuster Bowl. 
The Bobby Hoss-coached Y1)Jlow Jackets were selected as the No. 1 team in the coaches' poll. Colorado, which defeated Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl. was selected No.1 in the writers' poll. 
Georgia T11ch will make its first appearance here. Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions lost 44-6 to Nebraska in the in­augeral Kickoff Classic in 1983. 
The schools are each guar­anteed $650,000 for playing in the game, a $100,000 in­crease in the amounts teams received in the first eight Kickoff Classic games. 
"We are absolutely thrilled to host these tradition-rich institu lions," Peter Levine, the chairman of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said in announcing the game. 
Gretzky wants All-Star game to be cancelled 

HARTFORD, Conn. (AP)­People's minds should be fo­cused on the Persian Gulf, not hockey, Los Angles Kings center Wayne Gretzky said in urging the NHL to cancel Saturday's All-Star game. 
On Wednesday night, Gretzky said if it were his decision, the game would not be played. 
''I'd tell everybody to go home and evaluate what is going on. That's only my opinion, but I don't run this league," said Gretzky, whose cousin Kenny Hopper is a Marine pilot sent to the Gulf earlier this week. 
"The game is great for Chicago, great for hockey, but that's all secondary now," Gretzky said after the Kings lost 4-3 to Hartford. "If it was me, I'd cancel the game. 
"This is a scary situation when you think about it. Nobody likes to see war." 
In New York, NHL spokesperson Jane Freer said the NHL likely would take its lead from any recommenda­tions from either Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney or President Bush. 
"Hight now, we're proceeding as usual," Freer said. "Everything is being taken into consideration." 
Gretzky and the other players said their minds were on the war throughout the game. 
"The game was secondary tonight," he said. "I don't think I can even describe how every­body felt out there. Obviously we were more concerned with what was going on over there than what was going on on the ice." 
"It was on my mind in 
AP Photo 

Wayne Gretzky (99), whose cousin is serving in the Persian Gulf, says the NHL should cancel its All-Star 
game in the wake of the outbreak of war in the Middle East. 
warmups, during the game, on the bench and between peri­ods," Hartford center Ron Francis said. "This is going to be on my mind all night. I'm just hoping its over as quick as possible and with as little loss of life as possible. It's a scary feeling." 
Hartford goalie Peter Sidorkiewicz agreed. 
"This is scary. You'd think that people would learn," Sidorkiewicz said. "I just hope it doesn't last long." 
Some Whalers watched tele­vised newscasts between peri­ods, and Sidorkiewicz said he could hear the televisions on in the press box during the game. 
The crowd, which was somber before the singing of "America The Beautiful," sang the song loudly. And some in the near capacity crowd chanted "USA, USA" briefly midway through the third period. 
Gretzky said he hopes the war ends quickly. 
"Nobody wants to see war. But I also believe in what the president wants to do," he said. "I'm sure he knows exactly what has to be done." 
Gretzky said he got a call from his cousin on Sunday, who said he thought the attack would take place Wednesday. Gretzky said he's worried for the safety of his cousin and all the U.S. troops. 
Ihe ObserYer~ 
is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
AP Courier ­
Applicants must be have access to a car. If you are interested, contact John O'Brien at 239-5303 or stop by The Observer office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
~AREER OPPORTUNITIES 
THE SACHS GROUP 
We are a rapidly growing health care software and consulting firm located In Evanston, IIUnols, a suburb of Chicago. We currently have positions available for graduating aenlors who want to gain experience In lnlormatlon systems, marketing, conmlting, and the health care Industry. Some exposure to personal computers and software Is preferred, particularly ciBase, Excel and/or Lotus. 
II you would Uke to learn more about us, join us In the Foster Room on the third Door of the LaFortune Student Center on Monday, January 2Ist, at 7:00 p.m., for an Informal presentation on the unique career opportunities available with the Sachs Group. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
hie postseason berth, and a win 
over Notre Dame would look 
good for them," said Schafer. 
The coach's charges seemed fairly pumped up to play Lake Forest, and saw their previous games with Lake Forest helping their preparation. 
"We know how their power play works, and who their top players are," said junior Lou Zadra. 
"We'll be ready for (tonight's) game, there's no doubt about that," said freshman goalie Greg Louder. 
The Irish are coming off two rather lackluster wins against Div. III Canisius, winning 4-3 and 6-4 last weekend. 
"It's like going from one ex-
I 



Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30,9:45 
treme to the other," said Louder. "We played well against good teams (on the East Coast trip). and expected to carry it over (against Canisius)." 
Left wing Lou Zadra said, "It's always nice to get a couple of wins, even though we didn't play well." 
David Bankoske was the top gun for the Irish against Canisius, scoring four goals in the two games, including a hat trick on Saturday. He also con­tributed to the offense on the East Coast swing, which re­sulted in four Notre Dame losses. 
The Irish opened the trip with a 4-3 Joss at Princeton, then traveled to West Point. where the Cadets defeated Notre Dame 4-2. Things didn't get any easier for the Irish, as the 
second half of tour put the Irish up against two perennial powers. Notre Dame played New Hampshire tough, within one goal until the Wildcats got an empty-net score to make the final 5-3. 
Those three hard losses must have taken something out of the Irish, because they fell hard to the Boston College Eagles, 8­
1. The Eagles are fresh off a Final Four performance last year, and Notre Dame coach Hie Schafer was impressed with them. 
"B.C. was an awesome hockey team. (The game) was like one team going the speed limit, and the other team doing 100 miles per hour," said Schafer. 
Everything considered, how­ever, Schafer and his troops weren't too disconcerted de­spite losing all four games on the trip. 
"Three of the games were played very well," said Schafer, especially singling out the New Hampshire effort. 
"Overall we didn't play badly," said Louder. "We had some bad periods, just some breakdowns." 
The statistics somewhat ex­plain Notre Dame's road woes. At home, the Irish are scoring 
5.9 goals, while allowing only 
3.9. On the road, however, those numbers are reversed, with Notre Dame scoring only 
2.9 goals and giving up 5.3. 
The real breakdown for the Irish, however, usually occurs in the first period. At home, through 10 games, Notre Dame has scored 16 first-period goals while giving up only nine. On the road, the Irish have only managed six goals and have given up 19 scores in the open­ing stanza. 
Coach Schafer was philosoph­ical about Irish problems away from the friendly confines of the JACC. 
r----~­
-l 
1 
I 
I page 18 The Observer Friday, January 18, 1991 
Belles set record with 101 points in win ove.r Grinnel 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's sports editor 
In an NBA-style shootout, the Saint Mary's basketball team blasted Grinnel College 101-87, handing Grinnel just its second loss of the season Tuesday night. 

Junior forward Janet Libbing led the Belles (6-4) to their scoring record with a career­high 29 points, sinking nine of 15 from the field and 10 of 10 from the line. Libbing also led the team with 12 boards, two assists and two steals. 
"They came in as a strong team. They dominate in their region (Iowa). We played them extremely well." said Belles head coach Marv Wood. 

Wood was equally pleased • with the performance of Libbing. 
"It was an exceptional per­formance," he said. "By far the best of the year." 

"It was a great day," Libbing sai.d. "I thought everyone played great. It was a total team effort. Everything I put up just went in. I was lucky I guess." 
Teamwork and execution were the name of this Belles victory. Saint Mary's out-re­bounded Grinnel (8-2) by eight, 37-29, and committed a sea­son-low 11 turnovers while causing Grinnel to commit 16 turnovers. But the key for se­curing this record victory was the defense's ability to shut down Grinnel's one-woman scoring machine, Missy Sharer. Sharer, one of the top guards in Division III, averages 31 points/game. 
"I think she's a good player. I don't want to take anything away from her because she's a good player, but when a team focuses on one player, that player scores high and will have 30-point games." said Libbing. 
Initially, Grinnel broke out with a 6-0 lead. However, Saint Mary's quickly took charge with an 11-0 run. The Belles controlled the tempo of the half after an exchange of buckets. With 5:20 left in the half, the Belles extended their lead to 13 points, the highest margin in the half, at 38-25. The Belles continued to control the ball for the remainder of the half and led at halftime 45-36. 
In the second half, Sharer exploded as Grinnel adjusted their game to combat the switching man-to-man defense employed by Saint Mary's. Scoring many of her 37 points in the half, Sharer led Grinnel's efforts to cut into their nine­point deficit. Mter two minutes of action, the lead was cut to just five, 49-44. With 12 min­utes of play remaining the score was cut to three, 65-62. Grinnel increased its charge on the Belles and finally tied the score at 77-77 with 9:52 left on the clock. 
"It was nip and tuck much of the half, especially in the 60s and 70s. It was just a one-or two-point difference," said coach Wood. 
But the Belles' quick change in their zone defense checked the efforts of Sharer. In the following two minutes Saint Mary's secured its position, scoring eight unanswered points to lead 85-77. The Belles controlled the ball for the re­mainder of the game. forcing Grinnel to foul. With 2:14 left in the game, Belles led by nine, 94-85. With the clock at 11 sec­onds, junior forward Linda Garrett sank the last bucket to bring the Belles over the cen­tury mark, 101-87. 
"It was a great game, great shooting, great free throw shooting and few turnovers. It was just great execution," said coach Wood. 
Also contributing to the team's offensive onslaught were junior forward Catherine Restovich with 17 points, Garrett with 15 points and sophomore center Kim Holmes with 11 points. 
Tonight the Belles travel to Goshen hoping to extend their record to 7-4. Although Goshen is not as strong as it had been in the past, it is a new team on the schedule. The Belles do not know what to expect from this Goshen team, but they are preparing for Goshen's guard Karen Maft. In order to win tonight, they must shut her down. 
"They have a nice motion of­fense that gets everyone into the act," added Wood. "They also have Karen Maft who has been strong in the last two years. We'll have to keep an eye on her. We'll have to be sharp." 
Most events are continuing in wake of outbreak of war 
NEW YORK (AP) -For the most part, the sporting world went on as usual Thursday de­spite the start of war in the Persian Gulf. 
The NFL, NBA and NHL all decided to go on with games as scheduled. Only two major col­lege basketball games were put off: Wednesday night's matchup between North Carolina and North Carolina State and Thursday night's game between Coastal Carolina and North Carolina at Asheville. 

Even the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy went on with their sporting events. 
"This win should give the guys over there something to cheer about," Army guard Chad Michaelson said Wednesday night after the Cadets beat Lafayette 64-57. 

The NFL said Sunday's con­ference championship games and the Super Bowl on Jan. 27 would be played as scheduled. The league was criticized in 1963 when it played two days following the assassination of President Kennedy. 
"We recognize the impor­tance of achieving the goals established by President Bush and the United Nations," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said in a statement. "We also recognize that the American people will not be paralyzed by the events in the Middle East or allow the fabric of daily life to be destroyed. We thus expect to play Sunday's conference championship games and the Super Bowl as scheduled." 
Wayne Gretzky urged the NHL to cancel Saturday's All­Star game in Chicago, saying: "The game is great for Chicago, great for hockey, but that's all secondary now." 
That idea was rejected by NHL president John Ziegler. who said the game was sched­uled to "go forward as planned." 
"The expressed policy of the United States in World War II was that professional sports, as well as all business and en­tertainment, carry on," Ziegler said in a statement. 
The NHL had seven games scheduled Thursday night and the NBA had two. 
"We have been in touch with various officials in Washington and, on the basis of their reac­tions and advice, feel that the appropriate conduct for the NBA at this time is to continue to play all games as sched­uled," the NBA said in a state­ment. "We will remain in con­tact with these officials regard­ing ongoing developments." 

Jim Marchiony, a spokesman for the NCAA, said the organi­zation had not issued any direc­tives to its member conferences or schools. 
"That is strictly up to the in­stitutions themselves," he said. Almost all the schools decided to play as scheduled. 
In one of the few alterations to the sports calendar, the U.S. men's and women's World Cup ski teams headed home from Europe. 
"The decision was made last evening based on conversations between our administrative staff and our coaching staff," said Maggie Dyer, a U.S. Skiing spokeswoman based in Colorado Springs, Colo. "We feel we should take advantage of a relatively safe opportunity to move our athletes, versus taking the chance that would not be another opportunity for a while." 
The men's team arrived at John F. Kennedy airport in New York on Thursday afternoon. 
"It's a little disappointing," said Eric Keck, a downhill and Super-G skier from Montpelier, Vt. ''I'm just glad to be home safe." 
The PGA Tour was in Honolulu for the Hawaiian Open and said it planned to in­crease security. 
"We have no plans at this time to change our schedule," PGA Tour spokesman Sid Wilson said. "We are reviewing the next six weeks with an eye toward security. We recognize that television might be inter­rupted due to coverage of the war. That alone is not sufficient to change our schedule." 
Organizers of major European events -such as the European Figure Skating Championships in Bulgaria and the European Speed Skating Championships in Yugoslavia -planned to press on, although some athletes said they would stay home. 
NFL plans on playing Super Bowl 
TAMPA. Fla. (AP) -War in the Persian Gulf means tight­ened security for the NFL playoffs, but the games will go on. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said Thursday that the league expects to play this weekend's NFC and AFC championship games as well as the Super Bowl in Tampa Stadium on Jan. 27 despite the outbreak of fighting in the Persian Gulf. 
But he added that NFL offi­cials will continue to monitor the crisis and re-evaluate their position if necessary. 
"We recognize that the American people will not be paralyzed by the events in the Middle East or allow the fabric of daily life to be destroyed," Tagliabue said. 
The commissioner said the NFL is "taking all necessary security measures for the up­coming games. Local, state and federal law enforcement agen­cies have been enlisted in the league's efforts to provide the highest level of public safety to those ~ttending our games." 
Security personnel stationed around the clock at Tampa Stadium have been searching vehicles entering the grounds this week. Fans attending the game will be required to show their tickets for admittance to parking lots as well as a se­cured area outside the stadium. 
About 1,600 law enforcement officers from 16 agencies will be assigned to the game -re­portedly twice as many as the Super Bowl normally requires. 
"Security that comes with 
major events like the Super Bowl means taking prudent measures and sending a mes­sage out to terrorists," said Robert Smith, Tampa's director of public safety. 
"The wrong message is say­ing there will be no terrorist attack and that, 'We aren't do­ing anything.' It's always pru­dent to harden a target and close the gaps." 
On Thursday, work crews were installing a concrete bar­ricade around the 7 4,000-seat stadium to prevent any vehicle from smashing into the struc­ture. 
A 6-foot high, chain-link fence also is going up on a nearby road to keep everyone out except ticketholders on game day. 
LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS 

Friday, FebruaJY 1, 1991 • Joyce ACC • 8:00p.m. -4:00a.m. Contact Your Hall ~epresentative • Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics Proceeds to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics 

Sports 
page 20 Friday, January 18, 1991 
Irish pass first test with Ellis out of lineup, 80-73 
By GREG GUFFEY Ellis. He was the team's leading pull closer than five points the Sports Editor scorer at 16.4 and the top re­remainder.of the contest. bounder at 10.5. "We didn't crack in the sec­
Notre Dame passed its first "I think everybody is just go­ond half," Phelps said. "We test without LaPhonso Ellis ing to have to pick up their showed a lot of poise and com­Thursday night in an 80-73 vic­game a notch," said Sweet, who posure. I thought this was a tory over Marquette at the contributed six rebounds. pretty good win for us consid­Joyce ACC. "Everybody played well tonight. ering what we had gone 
The Irish placed five players We just have to keep playing through this week." in double figures in their first like this." The Irish hit 9 of 14 free game without Ellis, who is aca­Said Tower, "It helps our throws in the last three minutes demically ineligible for the re­confidence a lot. All everybody and connected on 25 of 37 foul mainder of the season. They was talking about was how we shots for the game. Sweet, improved to 7-9 and have the had a seven-game losing Singleton and Ellery combined weekend off before hosting streak. If they want to call us a to shoot 18 of 23 from the foul Rutgers on Tuesday night. streak team, then we're on a line. 
"I thought our kids adjusted three-game winning streak The lead seesawed in the first well tonight," Notre Dame now." half with seven lead changes coach Digger Phelps said. "It Notre Dame held together in and four ties. seemed like everybody stepped the second half, weathering The Irish held their biggest up a notch." Warrior spurts early and then advantage of the half at 14-10, 
Dairnon Sweet led the way for hitting key free throws in the but the Warriors scored 13 of Notre Dame with a career-high waning minutes. the next 17 points to take a 23­22 points. Elmer Bennett The Irish led 33-32 at the half 18 lead. Marquette led 30-27 scored 16, and Tim Singleton and then extended that advan­until Tower, Carl Cozen and tied his career high with 15. tage to 43-36 on a Singleton Bennett hit jumpers to give Kevin Ellery added 13 and field goal with 16:32 left. But Notre Dame the lead for good. Keith Tower 12 with a team­Marquette cut the margin to Damon Key scored 26 points high eight rebounds. 46-45 with 13:33 remaining on to lead Marquette, while Ron 
It was the third consecutive a Jim Mcilvaine free throw. Curry tossed in 13. The Notre victory for the Irish, but even Notre Dame boosted the lead Dame defense held Trevor more important than that was to 54-47 on a Sweet jumper, 
see IRISH I page 15
how they responded without and the Warriors could never 

"Mouse" roars after returning from injury 
His nickname is "mouse." He 
doing it for three years." probably earned it through his Singleton played his three quickness, agility and relative years in a microcosm againstsmall size. One more similarity: Marquette, with effective ball­He's hard to catch. handling, assists, defense and 
The Marquette Warriors scoring.learned that Thursday night "For (Singleton) to have 15 when senior Tim Singleton points, we felt we could go on equalled his career-high point that," said Irish coach Digger
Scott Brutocao 

total of 15 and distributed five Phelps. "I think it was another 
assists as Notre Dame defeated Assistant Sports Editor way for people to step up a 
the Warriors from Wisconsin, notch and do things they're not 
80-73. Singleton was mouselike used to doing. When Timmy
in every aggravating way, "I really wanted to create op­can score like that, it's a plus."
sneaking through defenders for portunities to score for my Such pluses on this belea­
easy layups, making quick teammates, but I noticed (the guered Irish team have become 
steals, playing tenacious de­defenders) were playing every­almost necessary with the re­
fense and generally scurrying body a lot tighter, with no one cent loss of leading scorer and 
around the court as if he were who would come in and contest rebounder LaPhonso Ellis. 
being chased by an aggressive a shot. I felt the opportunities Singleton, named team captain 
cat. to score myself so I took ad­at the beginning of the year,
In the game, one second he'd vantage of it." now will be looked to even be dribbling in front of his de­So Singleton did what only more in Ellis's absence. fender and the next he'd be those feisty, ruthless and impo­"I think my job description all 
past him, driving for the easy lite point guards do-drive along has been being a leader layup. Just imagine a slow-re­right into the defense and come on the court," said a quietflexed human standing in be­up with an easy layup. Singleton after the game. "Just 
tween a mouse and its hole-or "Tim comes in and gets knowing LaPhonso's not there The Observer/Elisa Klosterman Singleton and the basket-and things going," said teammate gives us the temptation to take 
Freshman forward Jon Ross replaced the academically ineligible you can picture how the de­Kevin Ellery, the only other se­LaPhonso Ellis in the Irish starting lineup. fender felt after each score. see MOUSE/ page 15
nior on the team. "He's been 
Hockey squad 

Women's basketball team 
returns home 

visits Marquette Saturday
vs. Lake Forest 
By RENE FERRAN take her spot.By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer Of the four players lost, Sports Writer Haysbert may be the most diffi­
The new-look Notre Dame cult to replace. She was second 
Ah, the simple pleasures of women's basketball team fin­on the team in scoring, averag­horne. It may just be a horne­ishes its four-game road trip ing 12.5 points per game, as ice advantage, horne cooking at with an MCC contest 5 p.m. well as being the team's best the dining hall, or just a Saturday at Marquette. defender. McGraw is not wor­psychological edge, but In an earlier meeting this ried so much about the lost whatever it is, the Notre Dame season, the Irish crushed the point production as how the
" 
hockey team has troubles when Warriors 109-56 at the JACC. Irish defense may suffer from it hits the road. However, that gan\e took place her loss. 
After losing four away games before four players were sus­"Nobody on the team can over the Christmas holidays to pended Wednesday from the guard like she can," McGraw fall to 10-10-1 on the season, team for failing to achieve a 2.0 said. "We have a big hole to fill 
the Irish's road record fell to 1-GPA last semester. there. Our defense will not be 9-1, while they boast a nine­"The Marquette game was as good, and the team will have' game winning streak at horne. the best game we've played all to work harder to compensate." 
Fortunately for Coach Ric ~ year. We shot the ball All-American candidate
The Observer/Scott McCann
Schafer and his troops, Notre extremely well," Irish head Karen Robinson (15.4 ppg) is Dame will be home for seven of coach Muffet McGraw said. one player McGraw will be
The Irish will host Lake Forest tonight at 7:30 at the Joyce ACC. 
its next 10 games. That streak "We're a little different team counting on to pick up some of will start tonight at 7:30p.m. at The Irish lost the first game 3-2 loss to the Irish, a span of five now, and we're still trying to the slack from Haysbert's ab­the Joyce ACC when the Irish at Lake Forest, but bounced weeks. Nevertheless. Coach Ric find a new starting lineup." sence. The senior guard is take part in a horne-and-home back to defeat Lake Forest 6-0 Schafer isn't taking Lake Forest McGraw still is undecided on aware she'll have to score 

series with Lake Forest. at home the following night. lightly. who will start in place of more, but is not going to Notre Dame has already The Foresters are 9-2 and "They'll be well rested. Cornalita Haysbert, although it change her style of play much. 
played the Foresters twice this ranked eighth in Division III. They're in the hunt for a possi-is likely Sara Liebscher-who season, splitting the two games. but have not played since that started against Loyola-who will see WOMEN I page 16 
see HOCKEY I page 17 








