
VOL. XXIII NO. 124 WEDNESDAY , APRIL 10, 1991 
-.I-.. 
,· · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

AP Photo 
Boating home 
Esqireo Luna of San Benito, Texas rides by boat to get to his home. Luna says he lost everything in his home due to recent floods, beds were floating inside the home. 

Faculty approves harassment policy 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
In its monthly meeting Tues­day, the Faculty Senate passed a discriminatory harassment policy by a vote of 22 to 4 with one abstention. 
The policy, which will be sent to the Academic Council, pro­hibits discriminatory harass­ment, which it defines as ha­rassment that is "accompanied by demeaning expressions con­cerning the race, sex, religion, sexual orientation or national origin of the victim(s)." 
The policy defines harassment as any physical attack, threat, persistent badgering or verbal attack intentionally inflicted to cause harm to the person or property of another person. 
Under the policy, cases of ha­rassment by students would be reported to the rector if it oc­curs within a residence hall, or to the Office of Residence Life if it occurs outside. Cases of ha­rassment by faculty members would be reported to the chair of the academic department or, in cases involving the chair, to the dean of the college. 
According to Frank Connolly, who presented the proposal, the policy is not aimed at the restriction of offensive speech. "The simple expression of an idea, no matter how offensive, is not harassment," he said. 
Connolly believes that the pol­icy will not be abused by people making inappropriate charges under the policy. "Unless you could charge intimidation, in­tent of hostility and persistence, you're going to get anywhere (under the policy)." 
One senate member said that he would not vote for the policy because he feared its use "in inappropriate or even frivolous cases." 
The policy was originally drafted by a committee created by University Provost Timothy O'Meara and chaired by Eileen , dean of Freshman Year of Studies. This committee then asked the Faculty Senate to consider it. 


Anti-abortion protesters released from custody 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­More than 100 anti-abortion protesters agreed to identify themselves and post $250 bonds Tuesday in exchange for reduced misdemeanor charges of criminal trespass. 
The agreement between at­torney Russell Sanford and the St. .Joseph County prosecutor's office followed the protesters' initial refusal to provide their names and addresses as eondi­tions of their release. 
They were accused of tres­passing at the Womfm's Pavil­ion, a clinic where abortions are performed, and faced contempt of court charges for violating an injunction against demonstrations on the clinic's property. 
The protesters were to be re­leased from custody with credit for time served, but later may be assessed fines and court costs, Sanford said. 
The Fort Wayne-based Northeast Indiana Rescue group postponed indefinitely another protest it had planned for Tuesday at the clinic, where 107 of its members were ar­rested on Friday, spokeswoman Gloria Carrel said. 
The prosecutor's office said three of the protesters had been released earlier after identifying themselves and posting bond. One is getting married, another had a death in the family and the third was ill, a spokeswoman for the prosecu­tor said. 
The rest remained in custody at a National Guard Armory, which St. Joseph Superior Judge Jeanne Jourdan used as 

Sexual revolution leads to porn 
By MARY MURPHY 
News Writer 
The sexual revolution has lnd to hard pornography d.-basing women and children through images of incest and sadomasochism, said Judith Heisrnan at a lecture last night at Ttwodore's. 
"I may be touching a raw nerve," said Hllisman, author of "Kinsey, Sex and Fraud: The Indoctrination of a People." 
Heisrnan, a counselor for the dtlpartment of Health and Hu­man Services, presented a dif­ferent perspective of the sexual revolution and pornography during her lecture "Sexual Hev­olution and Public Versus Pri­vate Space Behavior," paying particular attention to private vnrsus public space behavior. 
Before progressing with her prnsentation, Reisman asked the audionce to be open minded in viewing the slides and their relation to the sexual revolu­tion. 
"A lot of our problems are that the essence of porn or erotica is private space behavior in public space forms," Heisman said. Private space behavior is primarily nudity or "at risk" behavior, she explained. 
In a study of 6,000 images of children in pornographic publi­cations, Reisman found that 838 cartoons and 1250 visuals overlap sex and violence. 
With this in mind, she asked, "How can you say pornography doesn't have an effect on kids? That's the most nonsensical thing I've heard of. Everything we visually imbibe has an effect on us," she exclaimed. 
AI Kinsey, who wrote two books on sexual behavior, said that America was too uptight, too repressed, and that society has been lying about its sexual practices, Heisman told the au­dience. 
Kinsey said that 10 percent of the population is homosexual and humans are basically bi­sexual. Kinsey's philosophy is we should have as much sex as possible and in as many ways as possible, she continued. 
He often used children as sexual experiments. For example, in a study on sexual stimulation, 45 percent responded with twitching, 22 percent sobbed or were rigid, 17 percent had convulsions and cried. Yet, Kinsey concluded that all children had a "definite pleasure from stimulation." 
Reisman found the danger of this conclusion is that "no mat­ter how young and how much you scream, you can't be harmed if you're harmed sexu­ally." 
In another chart, Kinsey said that a 4-year-old had 26 or­gasms in 24 hours. 
The problem with these find­ings, Reisman said, is they were based on falsified data. "Kinsey is a liar." she pro­claimed. 
Reisman discussed other aspects of pornography which were dangerous to the human psyche such as the portrayal of children in incestuous relation­ships. 
Reisman noted that in magazines like Hustler, women are constantly portrayed with thinned or shaved pubic re­gions. She warned, don't be fooled; the publisher is trying to attract you to children. 
"There is a lot more direct eroticism flowing through a 

see REISMAN/ page 6 

a courtroom Monday afternoon for a mass hearing for the protesters. 
Members of the group have blocked access to abortion clin­ics in Fort Wayne, Kentwood and Niles, Mich., and have been arrested, but this is the longest that people from Northeast In­diana Rescue had been held, Carrel said. 
Sheriff Joe Nagy said city and county officials would be ready to handle another protest. It is costing his department $1,950 a day to provide meals, the extra officers and a nurse for the people being held at the ar­mory, he said. The only addi­tional cost will be meals if more people are arrested, Nagy said. 
Carrel said people refuse to give their names in order to identify with nameless victims of abortion. 
Most people taking part in Friday's protest are from the Fort Wayne area, have been trained in civil disobedience and knew what they were facing when they decided to risk ar­rest, said spokesman Bryan Brown of New Haven. 


AP Photo



Neo-Nazis attack Poles 
A group of German neo-Nazis make the Third Reich salute at the border to Poland in Frankfurt. The radical nationalists threw stones at Polish cars and buses, as they crossed the border. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Crayons create new, beautiful colors 
In the beginning, God created Crayons. He cre­ated three crayons: red, blue, and yellow. And He was pleased. 
In Redtown lived a crayon named Rosy. Rosy grew up like a typical red Jeanne Blasi child. She only attended Asst. Production Crayolithic schools, was a Manager colorball cheerleader and ------­dated all the muscular "fat crayons." 
Rosy graduated from St. Crayons H.S. with honors and proceeded to The University of Colors. Now CU had a diverse Crayola body; red, yellow, and blue crayons all attended the university. Rosy never knew a crayon of another color, but she assumed they were regular crayons, created by Crayola God, just like her. 

When Rosy started her freshman year, she didn't understand why the red, blue, and yellow crayons were so prejudiced against each other. They were all crayons, some were just different colors with different cultures; no one crayon seemed better than the other. 
Rosy once discussed it with her red friends who said, "Oh, I'm friends with lots of yellow and blue crayons, but I don't think we were meant to mix with them. I'm not prejudiced, but I mean, just imagine what would happen if a red and a blue crayon fell in love and had children. The poor thing would be an unheard of color and everyone would per­secute it." But Rosy didn't understand their narrow-mindedness. How could two beautiful colors bring forth anything but a better color? 
Rosy was especially upset by their attitudes since she was "scoping" on a hot yellow dude in the waxing hall. She finally got the courage to ask him to her colorfest and the two had a great time, in spite of everyone's staring and whispering. 
The two continued dating throughout col­lege, and in spite of endless persecution, mocking, and being told how immoral they were, they got married and had a child. They named him Orange. 
Gaining courage from Rosy, other red and yellow crayons hooked up in spite of the prejudice . And soon orange crayons became prevalent and the ignorant prejudiced crayons came to accept Oranges' as equal {although it never should have come into question anyway). 
Yellows and Blues soon followed suit and 
Wednesday, April 10,1991 
!fORECAST: 
FORECAST: Windy and very cool today. Partly sunny with highs in the 40s. Thursday dry but 
GO warmer. Highs in the 
60  50s. TEMPERATURES:  
City Athens Atlanta Berlin  H 61 80 54  L 50 63 41  



Boston  85  55  
Chicago  47  41  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  79  65  
Denver  58  28  
Detroit  74  59  
Honolulu  82  69  
Houston  84  69  
Indianapolis  78  59  
London  61  46  
Los Angeles  84  60  

Madrid 70 43 Miami Beach 80 74 Moscow 52 39 New Orleans 85 68 New York 86 69 Paris 61 39 Philadelphia 85 66 Portland, Ore. 53 43 Rome 73 46 St. Louis 64 53 San Francisco 68 48 South Bend 65 41 

......... Cotd ttont ®High pressure 
Thunderstonns~ 
Tokyo 77 50
Snow~ Sunny ~ 

......,. Warmfront 
Allin 

......... Statle troot <E)t.ow pre8tSUre CJ Flurrln § Ice U Cloudy Pt. Washington, D.C 84 66 
Cloudy ©1991 Aalu·Weather,lnc. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Reagan says Nancy book full of lies 
• LOS ANGELES -Ronald Reagan says a new biography of his wife, Nancy, is filled with lies. By the end of the day Monday, 150,000 new copies were ordered. That's in addition to the 600,000 already in or en route to bookstores around the country. Kitty Kelley's "Nancy Reagan: the Unauthorized Biography" portrays the former frrst lady as an abusive skinflint who ran the White House and carried on an affair with Frank Sinatra. Kelley claims that Reagan himself was with another woman on the day his daughter was born and that he and Nancy tried pot when he was governor. 
Democrats Launch 1992 Budget 
• WASHINGTON-House Democrats are introducing a $1.45 trillion budget proposal that boosts education and poverty programs and makes no tax changes. Republicans oppose the plan as unnecessary, contending it makes only minor changes in the spending outline Bush unveiled in February. The Democratic plan rejects cuts Bush proposed in 12 benefit programs, including re­ductions over five years that total $25 billion for Medi­care, $995 million for a welfare program and $698 million for guaranteed student loans. 
OF INTEREST 
WORLD 
Soviet withdrawal begins 
• BORNE-SULINOWO, Poland-The Red Army today began its long-awaited pullout from Poland after nearly 4 7 years of occupation. The pullout began at a formerly top-secret Soviet military base. A train, carrying members of a missile brigade that is being disbanded, was the first phase of a permanent pullout whose timetable was still a source of contention today. The Soviets say they will not vacate Poland before the end of 1993. Soviet troops have been a continuous presence in Poland since 1944, when they pushed back the German army, then stayed on to prop up a series of pro-Moscow regimes.. 
INDIANA 


had Green offspring. And Blues and Reds had Purples children. And on and on the mixing went And more beautiful colors were created. 
But, each color had to struggle to remove the inherent prejudices in some narrow­minded crayons who still had difficulty ac­cepting other colors and some still think they are better than others. 
But the prejudice was eventually overcome, and now we can proudly say that the original box of 3 crayons has grown into a large box of 64 different colored crayons (with a built-in sharpener). 
And Crayola God saw it. 
And He was pleased. 
Today's Staff: 
• 
Juniors, JPW pictures are available for pick-up with a student I.D. at the information desk in LaFortune. 

• 
West Germany's Alien Boys, who just released their second album, "Seeds of Decay" will be featured live on the air tonight at 7 p.m., only on WVFI, AM 640. 

• 
Native American religious beliefs will be dis­cussed by Bob Moody at Fireside Chat, Friday April 12th, from 12 to 1 p.m. in the ISO Lounge, 2nd floor of La For­tune. Lunch will be provided. 

• 
Sophomores, JPW applications for chairperson are available in Student Activities, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications are due Friday April 12 at 5 p.m. 


• Volunteer recruiter, Carla Doran, representing 
MARKET UPDATE 
Christian Appalachian Project will be on campus on Thursday, April 11. She will be recruiting for permanent, temporary and summer positions at CAP. Stop by the Hesburgh Library Concourse from 10 a.m.­noon or the Center for Social Concerns from 1-4:30 p.m. for more information. 
• 
Notre Dame Video needs a new manager and new employees for next year. Applications will be available in the store by Friday, April 12 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Steve Perkins 283-1605. 

• 
Student Government, Board of Trustees committee on Cultural Diversity is now accepting applications for the 1991-92 committee. Applications can be picked up at the Student Government office. Deadline is Wednesday, April 17. Any questions, please contact Joe Wilson, chairperson at 283-1686. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

News Alicia Reale 
Paul Pearson David Kinney 
Sports Marl< McGrath 
Scoreboard Rich Kurz 
Accent MelisSa Cusack Systems Chris Caracciolo Mike Murphy 
Production Lisa Bourdon Jay Colucci 
Graphics Brendan Regan 
VIewpoint Rich Riley 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• In 1945: American soldiers liberated the notorious Nazi concentration camp Buchenwald. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April9, 1991 

• In 1963: The nuclear-powered submarine USS VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 

Thresher failed to surface off Cape Cod, Mass., in a disas­

138.59 Million 21Q.43 ~ 2.43 
ter that claimed some 129 lives. 
S&P COMPOSITE 
• In 1974: Golda Meir announced her resignation as

373.56 .. 5.1 0 
prime minister of Israel. 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
• In 1979: 42 people were killed, more than 1,700

2,873.02 ..45.54 
injured when a tornado struck Wichita Fall, Texas,
PRECIOUS METALS 
destroying 3,000 homes and causing $400 million in 
damage.

GOLD -t $3.30 to $364.90/oz. 
• One year ago: The Chicago White Sox opened their

SILVER lf 6.0¢ to $4.019/oz. 
final season at old Comiskey Park with a 2-1 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 

Wednesday, April 10,1991 The Observer page 3 
Thousands of Iraqi civilians flee, taking UCA seeks reform of refuge in support camps on the border 
Salvadorian values 
HIYADII. Saudi Arabia (AP)­A Saudi general confirmed Tuesday that his country has set up a refugee camp along the northern border just inside Iraq and that it is housing more than 13,000 men, women and children. 
Maj. Gen. Abdelaziz Al­Sheikh, deputy commander of joint Arab forc!ls, said hundreds more refugees are continuing to drift toward Saudi Arabia's 550-mile border seeking help. More than 200 arrived Tuesday. 
The refugees in the Saudi eamp are mostly civilians and not war casualties, a)-Sheikh said in an interview. "They are looking for safety. They are not happy with the regime in Iraq." 
"We're looking at it from the humanitarian point of view," al­Sheik said. "They asked us to help. We have very close rela­tions with the Iraqi people. This is historieal." 
Al-Sheikh said the problem was an international one, but that the Saudis were giving the refugees tents, clothing, food and medical eare. 
"We don't know what will happen to them when the coali­tion forces withdraw." he said. The allied forces in occupied Iraq will pull out when a l ,440­member U.N. peace-keeping 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday
~-------------------------------------,I TRANSFERS! SIGN UP FOR TRANSFER ORIENTATION I
i TRANSFERS! 
I RANSFERS I : J • : TRANSFERS! 

: TRANSFERS! : TRANSFERS! : TRANSFERS! : TRANSFERS! 
I 
force moves into the area under cease-fire terms laid down by the U.N. Security Council. 
The United States military is caring for more than 15,000 other refugees in occupied southern Iraq around the town of Safwan, near the Kuwaiti border. They, too, could be left the tiesburgh Center. 

On November 16, 1989, six Jesuit priests, including the university president and vice­presidents, were assassinated by government death-squads at the UCA in San Salvador. Beirne's predecessor was one of those killed. 
Beirne, a Society of Jesus priest ordained in 1969, spoke of his experiences in El Sal­vador in relation to those views expressed in Henry Newman's "The Idea of a University." Cit­ing Newman's Sixth Discourse, he said "that the university's function is 'intellectual cul­ture.'" 
Beirne also explained the meaning and purpose· of the UCA, as spelled out by the as­sassinated president. Father Ignacio Ellacuri'a. The mission of Universidad is to serve the people of a structurally unjust 
AP Photo 

society, Beirne continued. 
Their aim is to cultivate the A Kurdish refugee carries firewood to his makeshift home in a camp set students "to develop an under­up by Turkish authorities on the Iraq border. Many of the tens of thou­standing of the national realitysands of refugees remain without proper shelter in the camp. 
so as to transform it." This 
in limbo once American troops leave. By CHRIS WILKINSON Arnold Luethold, chief of the News Writer Red Cross delegation in the Persian Gulf, said Monday the Father Charles Beirne, aca­
United States has a "very great demic vice-president of the Uni­moral responsibility" to protect versidad Centroamericana the refugees from persecution (UCA) of El Salvador, lectured by Saddam Hussein. on the nature of a university yesterday in the auditorium of 
TONIGHT! 
MANDATORY MEETING IN THE FOSTER ROOM ON THE 3RD FLOOR IN LA FORTUNE 
7:Jo PM 
IUE WILL HAUE SIGN-UPS FOR EARLY RETURNS TO THE DORMS 
lU ITH QUESTIONS CALL JULIE AT H 1 291 OR MATT AT 272-0552 

FOR SOME DRIVING GLOVES 
Ford Credit puts qualified college graduates in the fast lane w~th the Fo~d/Mercury College . Graduate Purchase Program. Jordan's Automall can arrange special financmg through Ford Cred1t and $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company. 
Here's all you have to do to qualify: graduate with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October 1, 1989 and December 31, 1991; have verifiable employment beginning within 120 days of vehicle purcha<>e; have a salary sufficient to cover living expenses as well as a car payment.. Although a prior credit history isn't necessary, if you have one, it must be satisfactory to Ford Credit. 
So get a comparunent for your driving gloves. Visit Jordan's Automall and take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. 
FORD CREDIT GETS YOU GOING. 
D 
,., FORD






JORDAN'S 
609 E. Jefferson ot Cedar, Mishawaka 
MERCURY 
259-1981 Toll-Free 1-800-837-1981 
L1 NCOLN
Hours: M, Tu, Th 8-9; W, F, So 8-6 

means the creation of a com­munity aware of "its potential and its problems, its values and its problems." The university objective is the eventual "social transformation of the Salvado­rian reality." 
Beirne connected his experi­ences in El Salvador to Notre Dame by explaining that a large, Catholic university, such as Notre Dame, must keep a constant eye on both theory and practice to ensure consistency. Also, the university must always know the community it serves. It must ask "who needs us most?" the "socially mobile Catholic population" or "the new immigrants; the homeless. the chronically poor?" 
The large, Catholic university must challenge its "students to reexamine their basic values and live with the consequences of this examination." Also, the university should be a "forum for discussion of the major Is­sues of our day." 
He said that the job of the UCA is to influence a country the size of Massachusetts, while Notre Dame has a far larger country to influence. 
Beirne received his PhD. in Education and Administration from the University of Chicago. Father Beirne served as assis­tant dean of Georgetown's business school. 
i through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
I 

.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllffilllllllllllllll. SUMMER STORAGE 
FOR STUDENTS 
High St. Storage -1212 High St. -288-3575 
• ~ULrAA 
= 
== 



== 

=;;;;;;;;

= == 
_,_ 
;r 
-'_c::,r--+"'-"'t--.; ,....__...,.1-'::';­>EV ~ tfJ 
=-~....::~1':;S~Tt:~o:~=~~----­
-·A deposit will hold your storage unit = 
Hurry Now -Spaces are going fast! •nnmnmmlmnmmnnmmnmmnmnmnmmmnnmmnmmmnmmmmnnmmnn• 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1991 

Siwinski: tactical errors led to fall of Polish communists 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
Woldzimierz Siwinski, vice president of Warsaw University, identified the forces of history, domestic resistance, economic failure, and geopolitics, as being contributors to the collapse of communism in Poland. 
In a lecture titled, "Why Communism Collapsed in Poland," Siwinski claimed that throughout Polish history, the communist hold in Poland has been weak. 
He referred to several tactical mistakes by the communists, especially those occurring post­WWI which contributed to this relatively weak communist po­sition in Poland. For example, the communist anti-state stance was against Polish ide­als, according to Siwinski. 
In 1918, after WWI, Poland was "carved" out of three sepa­rate states: Russia, the Austro­Hungary Empire, and Prussia. The Communist anti-state stance worked against the self­determinism and nationalism of the country, according to Si­winski. 
Another significant commu­nist tactical error, according to Siwinski, was their anti-peas­ant stance. Siwinski said, "the communist treated the peasant as the enemy." He felt that this position was "very unaccept­able" because the peasant was the basis of the Polish economy. 
In support of his point that historically Poland always had anti-communist roots, Siwinski cited the many rebellions stages in Poland. These include the October rebellion of 1956, March rebellion of 1968, June rebellion of 1976, August rebellion of 1980 and the final rebellion of 1988. 
Domestic resistance in the form of "civil society" was the second identifiable force which led to the collapse of commu­nism in Poland. "Idealistically". said Siwinski, "communism is a very strong state, and there is no civil society. However, the Poles did not give up civil soci­ety." Swinski cited the family and the church as two institu­tions through which the Poles maintained civil life and a na­tional identity. 
While Poland was communist, Siwinski claimed that the Poles maintained a national identity, separate from Communism. "The Polish were very opposed to the foreign invaders. There was a 'we' (Poles} and 'they' (Russians) attitude." 
Poles, according to Siwinski, maintained that their culture was superior as well as differ­ent and separate from the Rus­sian. Therefore even if a mem­ber of the intelligentsia were communist he wot necessarily feel united with the Russians because he was one of 'us' (Polish} and not one of 'them' (Russian}, added Siwinski. 
Siwinski indicated that other Poles joined the Communist party for their careers, but he assessed, "relatively few actu­ally believed in communism." 
The third force leading to the collapse of communism in Poland, according to Siwinski, was economic failure. Siwinski claimed that the communist system was fairly "successful in implementing extensive eco­nomic growth. Poland ran out of communist ways to deal with the economic problems -the only solution was to change to a market economy," Siwinski said. 
The final cause of the disinte­gration of communism was geopolitical forces. Siwinski viewed the threat of Soviet in­tervention as the largest factor blocking the collapse of com­munism in Poland. 
Therefore, when the Soviets indicated (through conferences, particularly one held in June, 1988 in Alexandria,Va, and through U.N. statements} that they were not going to use force to maintain Soviet control in the satellites, the political si­tuation was ripe for the fall of communism in Poland. 
However, Siwinski noted that many Poles believe that "it was because of no kind heart" that the Soviets allowed Poland to become independent. Rather, the Soviet Union wanted to equal the United States in mili­tary power and for economic reasons could not afford the expenses of maintaining control in Poland. 
Siwinski conceded, "although , the majority have been against communism from the begin­ning, it doesn't mean that the transformation to a market economy will be easy." In fact, Siwinski expects Poland will experience, "many ups and downs." 
According to Siwinski, communism makes people more passive and dependent on the state which will make the change to a market economy very difficult. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies. 
Sesquicentennial events unveiled at HPC meeting 

By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Newly elected Hall Presidents' Council (HPC} representatives met last night in official capacity for the first time since taking office. The new officers were welcomed by a number of pressing issues. 
Katie Pamenter of the Sesquicentennial Committee revealed the schedule of events for next year's celebration of Notre Dame's 150th anniversary. The first set of events will take place over the weekend of October 31st, and will include a Halloween dance at Stepan Center, as well as "The first homecoming at Notre Dame in twenty years." 
Special features of the home­coming will include a float competition, a special pep rally, and a crowning of homecoming king and queen. In addition there will be a gigantic homecoming parade featuring not only students, but also "shriners and other members of the South Bend community," according to Stephanie Ferry, homecoming committee chairperson. 
The second half of the Sesquicentennial celebration will take place the week of March 16 -21, immediately following Spring Break. Events will include a Class Night and Dessert Fest at the dining halls, a battle of ND campus bands, as well as nationally known musicians and comedians. Special events for St. Patrick's Day will also be organized. 
A representative from Christmas in April reminded hall presidents that the service project will get under way this Saturday, April 13th, beginning at 8 a.m., rain or shine. Everything is progressing according to plan, and a large turnout is expected. 
Finally, there will be a meet­ing for Freshman Orientation '91 commissioners on Sunday, April 14th, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFor­tune. All commissioners who have been appointed by Sunday are expected to attend. 

EXPERIENCED SPEECH/DEBATE COACH NEEDED 

If interested call Nancy at 277-2942. 

~--------­



Success 
Can Happen 0-yernight 
• t 


Whether you're a student or just starting out in professionallife,there are times when you just can't leave your work in the classroom or at the office if you want to put your best foot forward. 
Fortunately, Macintosh can come to the rescue as a powerful tool which will help you breeze through balance sheets,transaction listings, summary reports and sales breakdowns of any kind. On time. With plenty of time to play. 
Macintosh. 
Maximize Your Potential. 
•

This week, anyone can enter the free drawing for a Mac SE/30 by registering in the computer lab at LaFortune. The drawing will take place on April18. You must be present to win. You can find out more about Macintosh by visiting the Notre Dame Computer Store or calling 239•7477 
ollll I 
llII'
• 

~----------~~----~----~-­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1991 

Reisman 
continued from page 1 
small child's body than most adults are willing to acknowl­edge," according to Playboy. 
Also,  these  magazines  
publish  "child  magnets,"  
material  meant  to  attract  

children. She showed a slide of a Playboy coloring book in which a child had actually colored one of the pages. 
When you demean a people you can laugh at them, and you can do just about anything, Reisman commented. "Beware of what you laugh at." 
"Anybody who tells you this is a victimless crime, you tell them they are behind the times," she said. 
Reisman challenged the audience to think of pornography material in terms of proxemics, or spacial behavior. Proxemics is the way people and animals use space in relating. 
Lovers, for example, usually have 0" to 3" space between them, whereas friends have a social space of approximately 1', and far public space can reach thousands of feet. Therefore, she concludes private space behavior in a public space forum is a "mismatch, " which results in dysfunctional behavior. 
According to an article appearing in USA Today, Playboy magazine is "U.S.A.'s most widely read men's sexual education resource." 
Reisman finds this fact disturbing. She asked the audience, "How many of you remember the first time you saw a picture in Playboy magazine and the circumstances surrounding that instance?" 
She said she found, in a three year study on how children are depicted and affected by pornography and media violence, most people can. This again manifests the 
Man protests by tying body to train cars 
TOLEDO, Ohio (AP) -An en­vironmental activist arrested for chaining himself to a train hauling contaminated soil re­fused food Tuesday in a jail hunger strike, and officials said the train had left for another, unidentified state. 
Thomas Adams. 29, chained himself to one of the 26 rail cars for three hours Monday at the CSX Transportation freight yard in suburban Walbridge. 
Adams, a member of Stop Trashing Our Resources in Michigan. was protesting plans to dump the soil in a Toledo­area landfill. His group claims Michigan is deregulating some hazardous wastes so they can be shipped to out-of-state land­fills. 
The Frankenmuth, Mich., man was charged with criminal trespassing, disrupting public service and vandalism. He was being held in lieu of $9,000 bail. 
Capt. Larry Pilzecker, a jail supervisor, said Adams refused to eat breakfast and lunch Tuesday. He said the staff wouldn't take any action unless Adams' fast becomes a medical emergency. 
Joann Schiavone, a spokeswoman for a Toledo­based group called Hazardous Environment Leak Poison, said Adams refused food and water to protest his incarceration. 
,_ ............. ~ .......... . 
impact of visual images. 

To prove that visual images are more immediate than the printed word and are impossi­ble to erase from our memory, she showed two slides at once. In every case where the slides have been showed side by side, the audience has immediately recognized the slide of a man and a woman, remembering many details of the image. Conversely, they did not re­member "The American University" printed on the other slide. 
Reisman noted that the memory bank for images is different from the memory bank for cognitive thought. This, Reisman states, is because cognitive information cannot be processed at the same time one processes visual information. 
So much of how we view ourselves is "defined by the media, because visual communication has enormous impact," Reisman said. 
For example, during wars, men and women are portrayed with enormous respect. Cross­culturally, the images are of men and women with arms outstretched and as protecting, powerful, purposeful people. 
Reisman showed that art is often propaganda by presenting two opposing images of Stalin. She said, the way in which people are cartooned allows us to hate, disdain, and have been historically used to turn people against each other." Reisman urged the audience to constantly bear in mind the use of art to debase as opposed to love, or to honor as opposed to harm people. 
The modern problem, according to Reisman, with propaganda is that it helped to spin off the sexual revolution, particularly Playboy magazine. 
Reisman concluded with a look towards the future. "·We can't go back, we have to go forward to a time where men and women can relate, love, and trust one another." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 

Notre Dame conference to address one hundred years of Catholic thought 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business will host a conference April 14-17 titled "One Hundred Years of Catholic Social Thought." 
The conference will begin Sunday, April 14, with a concert by the Notre Dame Chorale and the South Bend Symphony in Sacred Heart Church at 8 p.m. The concert is presented by the Office of the Provost and will mark the official opening of the conference. 
The .following speakers will present papers during the con­ference in the Center for Con­tinuing Education: 
• 
Sr. Joan Chittister of the Benedictine Sisters of Erie, Pa., will speak on the topic of "New World, New Church: Political Pastoral or Prophetic?" April 15 at 9 a.m. Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter profes­sor of theology, will also speak on "An Ecclesiastical Analysis of Catholic Social Teaching," April 15 at 9 a.m. 

• 
Sr. Jean-Yves Calvez of Etudes, Paris, will speak on the topic "Is the Social Role of the Church Changing?" April 15 at 


10:45 a.m. J. Bryan Hehir, Counselor for Social Policy of the U.S. Catholic Conference, will also speak at that time on "Catholicism's Social Role: Leo XIII, Vatican II and John Paul . 
II.'' 

• 
M. Shawn Copeland, profes­sor of theology and black stud­ies at Yale University Divinity School, will speak on "Catholic Social Teaching in the Modern World: Three Dilemmas," April 15 at 2:30 p.m. Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emiritus of the University of Notre Dame, will also speak at that time on "Observations on a Possible New World Order." 

• 
Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, former secretary of state of The Vatican, will deliver the conference's keynote address on "The Functions and Future of International Institutions," April 15 at 8 p.m. 

• 
Amitai Etzioni, professor at George Washington University, will speak on "Social Equality and Political Uberty in Contem­porary American Society," April 16 at 9 a.m. Peter Paris, Elmer Homrighausen professor of so­cial ethics at Princeton Theo­logical Seminary, will also speak at this time on "Catholic Social Teaching and the African-American Struggle for Economic Justice." 

• 
Archbishop Denis Hurley of Durban, Republic of South Africa, will speak on "Catholic Public Opinion for Freedom and Political Institutions," April 16 at 10:45 a.m. Richard De Ge­orge, University distinguished professor of Philosophy at the University of Kansas, will also speak at the time on the topic "Neither the Hammer and 


Sickle nor the Eye of the Nee­dle: The Papal Critique of Eco­nomic Systems." 
• 
Michael Novak, senior scholar at American Enterprise Institute, will speak on "Liberty and Social Justice: Rescuing a Virtue," April 16 at 2:30 p.m. Paul Sigmund, professor of pol­itics at Princeton University, will also speak at that time on "Catholicism and Liberal Democracy." 

• 
Dennis McCann, professor of religious studies at DePaul University, will speak on the topic "Toward a Theology of the Corporation: A Second Chance for Catholic Social Teaching," April 17 at 9 a.m. Archbishop Marcos McGrath of Panama will also speak at that time on "The Social Doctrine of the Church in Latin America Expressed in Medellin and in Puebla." 

• 
Father Peter Henriot of St. Ignatius Church, Lusaka, Zam­bia, will speak on the topic "Who Cares About Africa? De­velopment Guidelines from the Church's Social Teaching," April 17 at 10:45 a.m. William Pfaff, author and political journalist, will also speak at that time on 


"A  Reconsideration  of  
Internationalism  and  
Nationalism."  

The conference's co-con­venors are John Houck, profes­sor of management, and Father Oliver Williams, associate provost and associate professor of management. 


Daily Specials 






THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-3e.m. 
IRISH HEARTLIGHTS ~~ 
3 & 6 MILE FUN RUNS  STUDENTS&STAFF  J~~Jl'a  
TROPHIES AND PRIZES  
THURSDAY, APRIL 11  5:30PM  FOOD & REFRESHMENTS  
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS  SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES  




Christian Appalachian Project 
Recruiting for service positions in Eastern Kentucky Thursday, April11: 
10-12 noon-Lirary Concourse 12:15-Brown Bag Lunch at the Center for Social Concerns 2-4-Center for Social Concerns 
"c-··---· ----::_· '
.....,,_.,.,~ .,..-.-..:;.::"i~..---.... .-·-.... p, 0--_-...... .-..... ____________ .... _._______........ 

------~~­

Wednesday, April 10, 1991 The ObserVer page 7 


~Car\son Tr~e\ Network

ORAnD 
AP R I L f3'~ 19 91
1723 Sout~ 8et1cA Avenue Ne:)(ttD frank's Red Hots
9AM ,. 2PM 

AP Photo 

Georgians declare independence 
A boy in Soviet Georgia waves a national flag near the republic's parliament in Tbilisi Tuesday. The Georgian parliament declared its independence from the Soviet Union Tuesday. 

RETURNS TO CAMPUS AT 3:00PM 
$7.00 INCLUDES: TRANSPORTATION TO/FROM 

SPONSORED BY NVA 
Hard times lead man to kill family, self during trip west 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -A Michi­gan man who brought his fam­ily west in search of a better life had 87 cents to his name when he shot to death his wife and her three children and killed himself, investigators say. 
A Detroit newspaper reported today that the man, David Greenwood, 32, had a history of mental illness. 
The bodies of Greenwood and his wife, Elizabeth, 31, were found near their pickup Satur­day on an isolated dirt road about 25 miles east of Reno. The children, ages 2, 8 and 10, were found in the front seat of the truck. 
The family left Pontiac, Mich., about two weeks ago. Nevada state investigators said 87 cents was found among the victims and that Greenwood apparently had been despondent because he did not have a job. 
Deputy Coroner Gayla Addington reported relatives said the Greenwoods had been married about two years and were having financial 


~travelmore 
problems. A family member said they were passing through Nevada on their way to Oregon, Addington said. 
The Detroit News reported today that Greenwood had a history of depression and at­tempted suicides. 
According to court records, Greenwood was diagnosed as suicidal and dependent on alco­hol and treated at two mental health centers for about a month in 1986, the newspaper said. The court records said he had tried to kill himself four times before being hospitalized, the newspaper said. 
In Pontiac, neighbors said the family abruptly packed up some belongings on March 21, put their three-bedroom home up for sale and headed west. 
The Greenwoods were known in the working-class neighbor­hood about 35 miles from De­troit for doing odd jobs for elderly and handicapped neigh­bors, such as shoveling snow and checking in on ill neigh­bors. 
David Greenwood rebuilt three old bicycles for the chil­dren, neighbors said. The older two children were his wife's by a previous marriage. 
"They were the most polite kids I'd seen in so long. It was always, 'please' and 'thank you,"' said neighbor Shirley Ri­ley. 
The couple met while working at a machine shop, Riley said. Just before Christmas, Green­wood quit because he was al­lergic to a coolant, which blis-
Summer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION I 683-1959 ] 
• APPitOX 2 l/2 MII..ES NOit'I'II US 31-33 Master Mini War<'hou~cs 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Design Editor 
For further information, contact Jay Colucci, 283-4335 or 239-7471 
tered his hands, and his wife quit last year because of foot surgery, Riley said. 
"Even with a cast on her foot she'd come out and shovel our snow," Riley said. 
Although most neighbors ex­pressed shock over the killings, Mrs. Greenwood's half-sister, Kellie Deuling, 19, of Newaygo, Mich., said she was not sur­prised. 
"I suspected it," she said. "They were really into religion. David was freaky when he talked. David scared me. didn't like him. She wasn't heavy into religion, she just agreed." 
Shirley Riley's husband, .Jack, said Greenwood bought a gun after Christmas, but it was not considered unusual because he liked to hunt. 
Daniel Byrd, the older chil­dren's father, said David Greenwood was jealous, drank heavily and did not let him visit the children. 
"I gave each one $5 when they left, even Liz and Dave," said another neighbor, Peggy Stacy. "I hugged and kissed them all goodbye. I told them they were taking a chance." 
Mrs. Riley said she urged the Greenwoods to leave the chil­dren with her until they were settled, "but Liz said, 'No, it's a family adventure."' 
"I tried to talk them both out of it," Mrs. Riley said. "But they were happy. They kissed me and said goodbye." 

nrtconr noTKr DAnr 11 
WIN AIRLINE TIGkiTS, IIREI GIFTS ANP MORI !! 
Phone: 21 I ...4880 
----~------~ 
~­

~­
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1991 

Census reveals continued Government report: Exxon oil spill segregation in communities continues to disturb environment 
MIAMI (AP) -Nearly a third of the nation's urban blacks still live in neighborhoods that are at least 90 percent black, according to a study of figures from the Census Bureau. 
In a study based on a com­parison of 1990 and 1980 fig­ures, The Miami Herald re­ported Tuesday that more than 
9.1 million blacks -or about 30 percent -still live in virtual racial isolation. 
That was down slightly from 34 percent in 1980, it said. 
"Any way you look at it, blacks are still very segre­gated," said University of Chicago sociologist Douglas Massey, co-author of several segregation studies. "At this rate, blacks will stay segregated for a long time." 
The study also found that 68 percent of the nation's white population lives in nearly all­white neighborhoods, down from 76 percent in 1980, the newspaper said. 
"We've known for some time how intractable the residential segregation phenomenon is," said Bill Tidwell, director of re­search for the National Urban League. "We know now that those historical patterns haven't been broken." 
The study did find that 13 states with large black popula­tions, as well as the District of 
Corrections 
• 
An article in Tuesday's Ob­server mistakenly said that only one percent of the current Notre Dame faculty members are ethnic Americans. Accord­ing to Notre Dame Report #16 (April 27, 1990), 11 percent of the current ND faculty mem­bers are ethnic Americans. The Observer regrets the error. 

• 
In Tuesday's Observer, the last line of a national brief 


Columbia, showed at least some decrease in the percentage of racially isolated blacks during the 1980s. 
Texas had the largest de­crease, followed in order by Florida, California, Illinois, the District of Columbia, New Jersey, Virginia, Indiana, Maryland, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, North Carolina and South Carolina. 
It also found that 44 of the nation's top 50 metropolitan areas showed some declines in black isolation. 
Benjamin Hooks, executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, was guardedly optimistic. 
"For the foreseeable future, segregation is a way of life in residential living," Hooks said. "There will be no dramatic change quickly, but there are some positive seeds being planted." 
But the sociologists warn that some of the apparent im­provement in many cities may not be real. Rather, it may be caused by an influx of poor Hispanics into once predomi­nantly black neighborhoods. 
Indeed, metropolitan areas that showed the most apparent improvement are in Florida, Texas and California, where most of the Hispanic immigra­tion of the 1980s occurred. 
about actor Michael Landon's recent diagnosis with inopera­ble cancer was inadvertently deleted. The sentence should have read, "Surgery, radiation therapy and anticancer drugs are treatment options, but have had very little influence on the outcome." 
• In an article in Tuesday's Observer, Moreau Seminary student Jacob Landry's name was misspelled. The Observer regrets the error. 

AP Photo 
Work station on Atlantis 
Mission specialists of the space shuttle Atlantis are pictured at a work station in the cargo bay. 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) ­The federal government said in its first comprehensive report on the damage from the Exxon Valdez disaster that the crude oil spilled two years ago con­tinues to harm wildlife. 
The report, filed in federal court Monday, dropped the se­crecy surrounding estimates of the long-term toll that were withheld because of lawsuits against Exxon Corp. and the state by governments, fisher­men and native Alaskans. 
The 19-page report is a summary of preliminary find­ings in dozens of scientific studies conducted since the tanker ran aground March 24, 1989, dumping 10.9 million gallons of oil into Prince William Sound. 
Exxon spent $2.2 billion cleaning up the spill. Four weeks ago it reached agree­ment on a $1 billion settlement with the U.S. government and the state. The settlement still needs approval from the Legis­lature and a federal judge. 
In recent months Exxon has run a nationwide campaign presenting the sound as largely recovered from the spill. 
But Monday's report said that crude from the nation's worst ~ oil spill contaminated sediment 330 feet below the sound's surface, and that contaminated clams and other invertebrates continue to affect marine mammals. 
"There are indications that injury is continuing," said Paul Gertler of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
Gertler said the information will help the public judge the proposed settlement. 
Exxon officials in Alaska hadn't seen the report and had no immediate comment, spokesman Joe Tucker said. 
The report said the spill killed up to a half million birds -in­eluding several hundred bald eagles, several hundred thou­sand more chicks, up to 5,500 sea otter, and 200 harbor seals. The spill caused no widespread die-off of fish or shellfish, but its long-term impact may still be serious, researchers found. 
At least 26 archaeological sites were seriously harmed, and hunting and fishing essen­tial to native Alaskans' lifestyle were severely affected, the re­port said. 
Gauging complete damage will take years. 
"In many cases, it's far too early for us to be able to say how long it's going to be before those species can recover," Gertler said. 
State officials had opposed release of the studies because of the lawsuits. But on Monday, Attorney General Charles Cole said he didn't see anything in the report that might prejudice the state's case. 




ND/SMC Right to Life group plans picket, other anti-abortion actions 
Special to The Observer 

Students at the University of Notre Dame will participate in Pro-Life Week this week through a variety of activities to increase student awareness. 
"Rose for Life" stickers will be distributed during the week outside the dining halls, and 100 small wooden crosses will be planted in the Fieldhouse Mall on Thursday to call atten­tion and prayer to the unborn victims of abortion. 
Several students have signed a statement, to be published in an advertisement in Thursday's Observer. It says that "every human, born and unborn," is a "unique and unrepeatable being made in the image of God and entitled to that most basic of rights, the right to life." 
Flatly opposing "the so-called right to an abortion -a right which so ignores the rights of others that it allows us to de­stroy them," the statement also laments "the havoc that abor­tion wreaks on its many vic­tims." 
The statement continues that "the taking of a human life can never be the answer to the problems besetting women" and urges "the serious en­gagement of those problems through constructive, rather than destructive means." 
On Friday, students will picket peacefully at the Women's Pavilion, an abortion provider at 2010 Ironwood Circle. Rides will be provided for interested students at 1 p.m., 1:45 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. from the University's main circle. 
One hundred and four anti­abortion demonstrators were arrested last Friday on criminal trespassing charges. 
The events of Pro-Life Week are sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College Right to Life organization. For more information, call Maria Rhomberg, president of ND/SMC Right to Life, at 283-2613. 

COURSE TIME CHANGES ENGL 109 28 0995 11:00-12:15 T H ENGL 109 29 0996 04:15-05:30 T H GOVT 343 01 1166 10:10-11:00 M W GOVT 343 02 1022 11:15-12:05 M W 
COURSE ADDED COTH 308 01 3401 Intro. to Broadcast Journalism 3 cr. hrs. • M W 11:00-12:15 Permission Required 
**NOTE: The following SOC courses have a limited number 
of spaces available for each class level during their respective DART periods. These courses close when each class allotment fills and reopens at the start of each new DART period. Any remaining openings will be available to anyone on April 24th. 
soc 220 2097 soc 232 2538 soc 260 3029 soc 302 2098 
soc 313 3031 soc 314 3361 
soc 342 2540 soc 372 1601 
soc 374 3032 

CLOSED ClASSES ACCT 231 01 0265 ENGL 328A 01 2794 MGT 231 02 1474 ACCT 231 10 0274 ENGL 399A 01 2567 MGT 231 04 1478 ACCT 231 11 0275 ENGL 415C 01 2802 MGT 231 08 1482 ACCT 231 15 0279 ENGL 416F 01 2804 MUS 220 01 2959 ACCT 231 16 0280 ENGL 418C 01 2806 MUS 226 01 1557 ACCT 475 03 0301 ENGL 425 01 2807 PHIL 235 01 1671 
ACCT 476 02 2371 ENGL 428A 01 2810 PHIL 246 01 1672 ACCT 479 01 0307 ENGL 432A 01 2811 PHIL 247 01 2593 AERO 444L 01 0316 ENGL 435A 01 2813 PSY 454 01 3004 AERO 444L 02 0317 ENGL 475A 01 2819 soc 220 01 2097 AERO 446L 01 0322 ENGL 491 01 2824 soc 260 01 3029 AFAM 368 01 3265 ENGL 494 01 2825 soc 313 01 3031 AFAM 371 01 3273 ENGL 4958 01 2826 soc 314 01 3361 AFAM 374 01 3266 FIN 462 01 1080 soc 342 01 2540 BA 362 01 0504 GOVT 401 01 2851 soc 374 01 3032 BA 391 01 0212 GSC 430 01 3218 soc 401 01 3033 BA 391 02 0211 LAW 676A 01 1297 STV 454 01 2397 BA 391 03 2223 LAW 691A 01 3398 THEO 246 01 0153 CHEG 459 02 0650 MARK 231 02 1307 THEO 253 01 0148 COTH 478 01 3187 MARK 231 03 1308 THEO 265 01 0145 ENGL 3158 01 2698 MARK 231 04 1309 THEO 287 01 3065 ENGL 319A 01 1018 MGT 231 01 1473 






Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 1 0, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .•..................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ••.••............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .....•.•••••••.David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ......•..•.•...•.... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
"1-\~V, FOR AN 00RA fJ.JCK LE!NJ\£ TAKE YOUR PICTUR£ ~CING WITH Awou::. 1' 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Committee on Cultural Diversity seeks applicants 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the University of Notre Dame Student Govern­ment Board of Trustees Committee on Cultural Diver­sity, I would like to take this time to encourage interested members of the student body to get involved with the 1991­1992 committee. Because of the fact that out of the nine committee positions available, six will be vacated at the end of this year, the committee has initiated an application process, t>nding on Wed. April 17, at 5 
p.m. Applications for the 1991­92 committee can be obtained at the Student Government office in LaFortune Student Ctmter. 
This committeo, formed at the lwginning of the 1990 school term. was designed to inVI~stigate the issues concern­ing Ethnic-American students on campus. After approxi­mately four months of careful research. the committee drafted a n~port corn posed of the rec­ornmmldations relating to is­suns such as financial aid, a Multi-Cultural Center, the Office of Minority Affairs. Intellectual Life, Student Life, etc. 
This n~port was then submit­ted to the University Board of Trustees during one of their campus meetings on Feb. 7, 1991, in hopes of gaining uni­vnrsity support. and providing an outlinn for the changes nec­essary for making the climate at the university conducive to cultural diversity. verses cui-
DOONESBURY 
tural visibility. Since that time, the members of the Student Government committee have followed up their initial actions by holding numerous meeting with members from almost ev­ery branch and department of the administration. 
Even though these meetings continue now, and have been scheduled throughout the re­mainder of the school year, the committees efforts will not stop here. By, assuming, in the fu­ture, a more active, creative and visible role, this organiza­tion will continue its efforts in promoting the adoption of the recommendations presented within the report. 
The members of the Student Government Board of Trustees Committee on Cultural Diver­sity, in search of new committee members, seek individuals of diverse backgrounds, variant opinions, but most of all those persons burning with the desire to promote positive change to­ward the goal of making all in­dividuals feel as though they are truly members of the Notre Dame community. Therefore, we strongly encourage every member of this community to consider getting involved with the efforts of this body. 
Joe Wilson Student Body Senator, Dis­trict #4 1991-92 Chairperson, Board of Trustees Student Committee on Cultural Di­versity April 8, 1991 
Smoking task force's policy is archaic and inconsistent 
Dear Editor: 
Reference is made to The Ob­server story (April 8)on the smoking task force created by Father Malloy. The long ex­pected witch hunt has begun. Its overture was the banning of smoking in some of the more "progressive" dorms on campus and, more subtlety, by the removal of the hall ashtrays in our own beloved Carroll hall. No one asked the smoking resi­dents how we felt about the matter. 
We were nauseated to learn about Sorin Hall's "adequate compromise's where smoking was banned everywhere but one side of the front porch. This is not adequate and hardly a compromise. This policy is reminiscent of how Blacks, an­other group that ignorant, ar­rogant people tend to feel supe­rior to, were made to sit in the back of the bus in the pre-civil rights era. This is archaic! Is this how Notre Dame solves its inter-personal problems? By driving out anyone who doesn't fit the mainstream, so-very­nineties, upper middle class ND profile? Are they trying to cre­ate a super-race of production line Dorner clones? Apparently so. 
We wonder if the alumni, and all the money thl'ly spend here on the football weekends, will be asked to put out their cigars, pipes and cigarettes in front of the bookstore. Probably not. Is it a mistake that the Joyce ACC, the Morris Inn and the Huddle-campus spots very popular with wealthy, and sometimes very generous alumni-are being "considered separately"? No, of course not. But then again, inconsistent policy is nothing new here un­der the Dome. How many alumni had their beers taken away on South Quad last foot­ball season? Our guess is not many. 
The argument will undoubt­edly be made that tobacco is unhealthy and its use annoying to others. If health is the big concern of the administration and the non-smokers of the University then why not ban beer? After all, alcohol is un­healthy and alcoholic products bear Surgeon General's warn­ings as well. If consideration is the goal, we ask you how an­noying is a screaming drunk or the smell of liquor-laden puke next to your tire as you come out of The Linebacker or Senior Bar? The smoking task force could be the vanguard of a new American Temperance move­ment born right here at ND! Won't we all be so proud. 
The fact that the Kurds being killed by the thousand and our most feared enemy since World War II on the brink of civil war were beat out for the headline on the front page by "Official Policy on Smoking Created by new Task Force" seems to il­lustrate the dream world that a lot of the Notre Dame commu­nity lives in. Do non-smokers think that when they get out into the workplace that all their co-workers (and bosses) won't smoke? Will they ask them to take it outside to the correct side of the porch? Again, probably not. Their kids are going to go to bed awfully hun­gry if they do. 
The Powers-That-Be are ask­ing to know how we feel about the issue. Well, we fear that given the current trend of per­secutions that this will not be a venue of discussion and com­promise but a quick way to railroad us. We don't expect sympathy; we don't want it. Keep it. But we're not afraid to defend an unpopular position. We are nice, and yes, consider­ate people we smokers. Neither I nor any of my friends that smoke have ever told someone to buzz off who asked us to put out a cigarette. However, we also have never felt guilty about smoking in a designated smok­ing area where we knew we weren't bothering anyone. 
Donald J. Modica Richard Tuohy Chris Hesburgh Michael Pard Carroll Hall April 8, 1991 

VieWpoint welcomes columns and letters on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'We must be prepared with all that God has given us to thwart intentions by the United States in these next days.' Saddam Hussein October 31, 1990 
QUOTES, PO. Box Q. ND,IN 46556 



-------~--~ --­
Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, April 10, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sexuality should not dominate co-ed housing debate 
Dear Editor: 
I found myself at first pleased, and then disturbed by Paul Corintha's March 22 Jetter concerning co-ed housing. Mr. Corintha's perspective on co-ed housing was truly original, showing its author to be a man of treat insight into the ways of the world. But I was sorry to discover that Mr. Corintha, a man who so clearly has his finger on the very jugular of the co-ed housing debate, nonetheless failed to take the opportunity to seize this, to coin a phrase, political "sacred chicken" firmly with both of his hands, and choke the life out of it. 
Mr. Corintha made three particularly relevant points. As he says, it is ludicrous to blame the housing situation for the state of gender relations on this campus. The root of the problem can be traced instead to the fact that men and women here communicate in the first place. None of this would be an issue if only we were not daily confronted by members of the opposite sex. 
I strongly recommend each and every one of you out there that you avoid your gender counterparts as much as pos­sible. It's always worked like a charm for me. It is also a fact that many of our older alumni, who did not have the benefit of being given a chance to "form meaningful relationships with women," are nonetheless perfectly adept socially. It has always warmed my heart to see these brave souls, clad in their traditional Irish plaid-n­polyester, standing around in the stadium parking lot, drinking themselves into oblivion. "These men," I think to myself, "are men who un­derstand women. And they are certainly, certainly not 'social morons.'" 
But by far and away, Mr. Corintha's best point is that Notre Dame is already the greatest university in the world, and that it has absolutely nothing to do with this. As Mr. Corintha sees, Notre Dame is great because of its success at promoting one incredibly insightful and all-embracing principal concerning human nature: people should be treated like the lust-filled swine they really are. 
In light of this, it seems to me that simply resisting the push for co-ed housing, as Mr. Corintha has bravely elected to do, is not enough: it is time for all good Catholics across this campus to insist that God's law is not broken-or at least, that the people breaking it are too worried about getting busted to enjoy themselves. 
Therefore, I suggest that the following measures be taken immediately: 1) the abolish­ment of room visitation rights; 
2) the immediate removal of men and women into separate quads, enclosed by electric fences and patrolled by gender­sensitive guard dogs, as opposed to their being merely in separate dorms; 3) the abolishment of the campus forces that are known as "co-ed classes"; and finally, 4) the abolishment of dorm dances, which were always just thin excuses for dance-floor "elbow sex" anyway. 
Considering the fact that, after reading Mr. Corintha's arguments, the need for all these reforms was clearer to me than ever before, I was for some time bewildered as to why he himself had not made such recommendations. A closer reading or the text of his letter, however, provided me with a disturbing and tragic clue concerning the origin of Mr. Corintha's hesitancy to go all the way-he himself may well have been a victim of temptation. 
In one of his closing passages, Mr. Corintha's words become achingly, nay, throbbingly reminiscent of Augustine's Confessions: "Everyone (and not just Catholics) who has had premarital sex knows there is something wrong with it-our conscience reminds us of this, even if the agents are not ex-actly cognizant of the exact reasons for its wrongness. Continued abuse of the inher­ent goodness of sexuality, of course, tends to mute the beckonings of conscience." 

No one could or would make such claims as forcefully and authoritatively as Mr. Corintha unless they spoke from long, hard, warm experience of the world. I pray that he recognizes that any fornicating he may have engaged in, at any time in your life, was not your fault; it was the fault of a university that has forgotten its principals, lost sight of the fact that no human individual alone is strong enough to whip the chains of temptation, to toss off their overwhelming urge to go out and "jump somebody's bones". I can only assume that he fell into this temptation for the obvious reason-he lives off campus, away form the immediate guidance of the Administration. 
Why is it that the noblest souls of any generation must 
Sparse participation impairs goals of SMC/ND Freshwoman's dinner 

Dear Editor: 
President Bush has declared April 5-7 as National Days of Thanksgiving for victory in the Gulf War. (Christian Science Monitor, April 1). For what are we to give thanks? 
-For 79 dead American sol­diers? 
-For 150,000 dead Iraqi sol­diers? (American Friends Ser­vice Committee Gulf War Fact Sheet) 
-For 135,000 dead Iraqi civilians, 60% children? (American Friends Service Committee Gulf War Fact Sheet) 
-For 30-40 Palestinians killed, and 2000 detained, in liberated Kuwait? (Christian Science Monitor, April 1) 
-For 300-600 oil wells burn­ing 600 million barrels a day in Kuwait? (New York times, April 1) 
-For uncounted thousands of dead and refugees from civil strife in Iraq? (Christian Science Monitor, March 28) 
-For the reduction of Iraq's central water system to 5 per­cent of its capacity to supply drinkable water? (World Health Organization report, Christian Science Monitor, March 29) 
-For Iraq's relegation to a "post-industrial age," facing "imminent catastrophe, includ­ing epidemic and famine" due to "near apocalyptic" coalition bombing? (U.N. report, Ob­server, March 22) 
Perhaps a National Day of Repentance would be more in order. As the President is fond of saying, "God bless America" -we need it. 
Michael Kremer Department of Philosophy April2, 1991 

suffer so hellishly so that they might bring the rest of us light in our moral darkness? The sacrifices Mr. Corintha's has made so that all of us might better understand. I only hope and pray that we treat Mr. Corintha's arguments with all the reverence of which they are due. 
One final point, and then my tribute to Mr. Corintha's way of thinking will be at an end. It is very true that co-ed housing will not magically cure all of our male/female difficulties, and that there are definite trade-offs involved. We must all think this through carefully. But this emphasis on sexuality and on fears that, if placed in close proximity, men and women will inevitably act on their basest emotions, strikes me as pathetic and sad. 
In considering the question of whether or not Notre Dame should have co-ed housing, the acceptability of pre-marital sex is in a certain sense not at issue: no one has discussed doing away with parietals, or allowing free and rampant sex with no consequences-not yet, by a long shot. There is no proof, moreover that placing people under the same floor, while retaining parietals and the Catholic prohibition against pre-marital sex, will lead to any more transgressions of those codes than already occurs. 
The real question is, whether or not having co-ed housing would be an effective means of improving the genuineness of male/female relations at Notre Dame. Judging from the sorry state of affairs at many schools which do have co-ed housing, the answer may well be "no." But let us at least consider the issue from the appropriate standpoint, rather than becoming so fixated on sex and sexual fears that we are unable discuss it intelligently. 
Alex Halow Morrissey Hall AprilS, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my disappointment in the turn-out for the recent St. Mary's/Notre Dame Freshwoman's dinner held in the Saint Mary's dining Hall. Both St. Mary's and Notre Dame's Freshman Boards worked together with the goal of improving the relations be­tween the women on the two campuses. we, the board mem­bers, and hoped to start a rela­tionship that would be carried on throughout our four years and to minimize stereotypes among our community. To im­prove the relations, we felt a dinner at which we dyed Easter eggs for a local shelter would be ideal to fulfill our goals. 
Unfortunately, due to forces beyond our control, the dinner could not be held in a totally neutral environment: therefore, the dinner sponsored by the SMC Freshman Board we held in our dining hall. I understand the inconvenience it may have been for the Notre Dame women to attend; however, the weather was beautiful and the shuttles were running. Of the 1200 freshwornan among the two schools only about forty attended. I am deeply disap­pointed since both boards were so supportive of the idea. 
I appreciate those who made the effort to attend. I carne away from the dinner saying "I am sorry to realize that I wasted a whole semester stereotyping Notre Dame women. I feel I made new friends. Friends that I could call to have dinner with or to talk to." It was an experience that our whole community could have benefitted from if they taken advantage of it. hope my letter will encourage people to "break the barrier" between the two schools. I also hope those who are taking our places in office next year will recognize our effort and con­tinue to work for better rela­tions. It's well worth the effort! 
Sara Shilling Regina Hall Aprll3, 1991 




r----------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
20th ANNIVERSARY OF BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
I 

A Supplement to the Observer 
TM\S IS Yf

' BRAIN, 
Photos by Kenneth Osgood, Sean Farnan, and Elisa Klosterman 

Favorites abound as Bookstore tips off 
By RICH KURZ Tony Rice and company. The Four last season before losing running back Dorsey Levens to conducted by the Bookstore Associate Sports Editor only constant on that team is to "Adworks," returns four of its lineup, will have to do with­committee, trying to keep the Derrick Johnson. its five players. out him for the first few top teams from meeting before 
The 1991 Bookstore One of the common denomi­"Tequila," like several other rounds. "Just Chillin" features the final rounds of play. Basketball title, the 20th of its nators this year will be youth. teams, will be affected by new split end Ray Griggs, while "We designate people we kind, is now officially up for Anyone who saw "Malicious" NCAA rules. "Tequila White Lightning" in­know will be solid," said Head grabs. survive a scare in the round of In the past, football coach c)udes linebacker Brian Commissioner Kevin McGee. 
There will be no three-peat, 32 last year against "Digger's Lou Holtz allowed his players Ratigan. "We have three extremely since two-time champions NIT Express" witnessed one of to skip practice if it conflicted Ratigan said that football knowledgeable basketball play­"Malicious Prostitution" has the most exciting games of the with a Bookstore game. players may have some con­ers on our committee. They fig­moved on to presumably tournament. And the However, due to a decrease flicts early, but added that as ure out the top 16, and we put greener pastures, with last "Express," reincarnated this in the number of days on teams advance, it shouldn't be them on separate pages (all of year's All-Tournament MVP year as "Gina's Pizza," returns which spring practice is much of a problem. which are different brackets)." Joe Scott and his law school all of its players, three of permitted, Holtz will no longer "I'll probably miss three or McGee also noted that good buddies now graduated. whom are sophomores and the excuse the players. This four games, but after that I teams can slip through the 
Even the runners-up of the other two of whom are juniors. change will affect many of the should be fine, as long as we seedings and upset high seeds past two years, "Adworks," will "Tequila White Ughtning," top challengers for the crown. keep advancing," said Ratigan. boast four new faces to replace which advanced to the Final "Adworks," which added Preliminary seedings were see PREVIEW/page 3 
l 
I 
1 1 
,1 
, 
,
, 
., 
"' 
,
"' 
,
, 
,
,
, 
,1 
,
,
, 
, 

BOOKSTORE. BASKETBALL '91 
page 2 April 10, 1991 


Bookstore names endure test of time 
Censors, creativity reign in 20th edition of tourney 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

By RENE FERRAN to Digger Phelps, 15 to 
Associate Sports Editor Saddam Hussein-1 0 have both names together-six to 
What is the most memorable the Ross twins and four to Irish aspect of the Bookstore tour­tailback Ricky Watters. nament? The champions? The "If you look at the uncen­games? The players? sored list as a whole, there 
LEFT: Alumni Hall's Paul 

Not even close. were some very creative 
Szyperski looks off his 

The most memorable part of names," McGee said. "With 
opponent before making a

the Bookstore experience year many of the names, we had to after year is getting together go over two or three times to 
pass in his preliminary-round 

with a bunch of friends and understand it. The fact that 
game (Photo by Elisa 

trying to come up with a name some names got censored is 
Klosterman). 

that will make it past the cen­testimony to their creativity." 
RIGHT: With games to only 

sors. 
21 points, every possession 
Freshman Ed Padinske 
counts, as these two 

Of course, some of the best wasn't lacking in creativity 
Bookstore opponents 

names never make the final when he thought of this year's 
demonstrate (Photo by 

cut. Observer choice for the top 
Kenneth Osgood). 
Bookstore name. "Sleeping 

Head Bookstore Com­with Bieniemy: The Ty Detmer missioner Kevin McGee ex­Story" was a result of a brain­The Observer Top 1 0 Best Bookstore Names plained the procedure used to storming session between a popular choice among The 
1. Sleeping with Bieniemy: The Ty Detmer Story (#197) 
censor the 670 names initially Padinske, a Cavanaugh resi­Observer sports staff as the 
2. Two Rosses Don't Make a Right (#17) 
submitted this year. Sitting dent, and some of his dorm­worst name of the year for its 
3. Four Musty Pelts and a Summer's Eve (#48) 
down with the SUB director of mates. perceived lack of taste. 
4. Coach Phelps: Oxymoron or Just Moron? (#456) 
programming, SUB director of 
5. Five Guys Who Would Surrender to Bush Anyday (#282) 
internal affairs, the An Tostal "We threw some names out Regardless of the 
6. Chuck Freeby Is the Blue Jogger (#29) 
chairman and two other mem­as a group, making fun of cer­creativity-or lack of it-in the 
7. All We Had Going for Us Was the Name and They Censored It (#315) 
~ bers of the Bookstore tain sports celebrities," name, however, it's still the 
8. We Could Beat Butler (#37) 
Committee, the censorship Padinske said. "But I decided talent of the team which 
9. If You Think We're Bad Now, You Should See Us Sober (#91) 
committee had the difficult that instead of picking on determines whether or not 
10. Organic Fertilizer, the Ethanol Plant, Digger Phelps, and Two Other 
task of paring out offensive Notre Dame athletes, I would that team advances. 
Things That Stink Up South Bend (#606) 
f 
names. pick on our opponents." Therefore, could it have 
Honorable Mention: Ricky Watters, the Stay Puff Marshmallow Man, 
And while they did the best "I think it's fantastic. Our been a premonition that led 
and Three Other Guys with Big Heads (#363); Sons of Chachi (#279); 
job they could, some names name definitely deserves to be teams to name themselves 
Rhinelander, Ricky Watters, Wisconsin Club, and Two Other Terrible 
~ 
slipped through the cracks: the number-one name," team­"The Return of Five Guys 
Draft Choices (#492); Bigfoot, the Loch Ness Monster, Digger's 21st 
r "Four Musty Pelts and a mate Mike Scarsella said. Without a Prayer," "Five 
Season, and Two Other My1hs (#165); Sometimes University Censorship 
r Summer's Eve" (No. 3 on The Seniors Just Out for the 
Kills Meaningful Expression (#521 ).
r Observer Top 10 list), "5 Not so according to Roger Exercise," "If We Were Any r Guards that Leave the Laurite, captain of "Two Worse. We'd Play Naked," and Ballhandling to Someone Else," Rosses Don't Make a Right," "Five Slow White Guys Who 
The Observer Top 10 Worst Bookstore Names 
"5 Guys Who Are Under 6 Feet the runner-up on the Observer Can't Hoop?" 
1. Hank Gathers, Pete Maravich, Len Bias, Joe Ross, and One Other 
and Over 6 Inches," and "She list. 
Stiff (#546) 
Likes That Greek Stuff." Or why bother showing up if 
2. Malicious Prosecution (#125) 
"Of course, I think our team's "The Enormous Team That 
3. Operation Bookstorm (#505)
"You could read innuendo name was the best," Laurite Wants to Kill You" is anything 
4. Your Mom Can't Wrestle But You Should See Her Box (#383)
into almost any name on the said. "However, I think that out like their name indicates? 
5. Toenail Clippings (#59) 
list." McGee said. "The fact of 670 teams, it's an honor to 
6. Digger Phelps, Mike Krzyzewski, Jerry Tarkanian, John Thompson, 
that the committee didn't be picked second. And year after year, old 
Jim Boheim, and Five Other Guys Who Won't Be at the Final Four (#398) 
understand the innuendo standbys-" Ad works," 
7. Dan Peltier, Jose Canseco, and Three Other Guys (#446) 
doesn't necessarily mean they "We were at one of the men's "Tequila White Lightning," and 
8. The Beaver Cleavers (#152) 
should be censored. We threw basketball games, and I made of course, "Five Men Who 
9. Net Dreams (#408)
the list past Student Affairs, that comment when Digger put Aren't Afraid to Wear Tu-tus 
10. Sam, Norm, Cliff, Frazier, and Woody (#296) 
and they accepted it." both Ross brothers in together. While Playing Basket­When it came time to pick a ball"-pop up in the field. 
Dishonorable Mention: Meatless Baked Ziti (#337); Scott Norwood, Bill
One thing McGee and the Bookstore name, we decided to 
Buckner, and Three Other Guys Who Miss (#15); The Laxatives (#443); 
committee could not control use it." So, in analyzing the 670 
Hanky Breath (#129); We Love Digger. .. Not (#331); The Village People 
was the lack of originality names in this year's field, can 
Go West (#194); Line Stretchin' Monster Flathead Cats (#21). 
some teams had when thinking Not all the names were one determine the favorite for up names. With 670 teams, praiseworthy. "Hank Gathers, Bookstore XX? Not likely. 
These results are based on a poll 
there is bound to be some Pete Maravich, Len Bias, Joe But you'll have a lot of 
of The Observets sports writers.
repetition, but 26 teams refer Ross, and One Other Stiff" was laughs trying. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

--------------~-----------­
April 10, 1991 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL '91 page3 
Preview 
continued from page 1 
early on. 
"If a team throws together Tim Singleton and a Division II player of the year, and we don't know about it. it won't get seeded." 
Once the field is narrowed to 16 teams, the committee meets again and reseeds the h~ams to attempt to create balance in tlw bracknts. And not too long after that, a new Bookstore champion will be crowned. 
Some of the top teams vying for thn top spot: 
•Adworks. Same name, same levnl of competition, different faces. Derrick .Johnson, a fluid 6-5 swingman, is the lone constant on this team that narrowly lost to Malicious Prostitution in last season's championship game. c;orw are Tony !Hen, Kevin Knyes, Cedric Figaro and .Jim Dolan (to "Tequila White Lightning"). In their plaetl is a qukker team with as equal or better tahmt. 
Former varsity basketball player Kevin Ellery is the major acquisition, adding his prowess around the hoop to "Ad works." Also joining "Adworks" is Dorsey Levens, an All-Tournament selection with "Soul Sonic Foree" last season. 
"We're smaller," said .Johnson. "We're all about the same size across the board, but we'n1 a little quicker (than last year). I think we can do it (advance as far as last year). 
•Malicious 
Prosecution. This year's law school entry should lw rwarly as competitive as past entries, despite the loss of Scott. .Jonathan Bergman and Ken Bonhm~r are the keys for this team. which will hope to rtlpmtt the past success of law school 1mtries. 

•T"quila 
Whit" Lightning X. This team will have a size ad­vantage against any team they play in the tournament. Giant 6-10 center .Jim Dolan, a stal­wart for Adworks last season, has joined "Tequila," making them a nightmare under the boards for the opposition. 


Eric .Jones, a defensive tackle on the football team, is one of the forwards. Jones is not participating in contact drills for football due to a ruptured spleen he suffered during the Orange Bowl, but he has b11en cleared to play hoops. 
Bubba Cunningham, a ticket managp,r for (/Jotball and 

ABOVE: Two teammates celebrate during one of the few not-so-serious moments of Bookstore competition (Photo by Kenneth Osgood). BELOW: The stern concentration etched on the faces of these players is evidence of the importance Bookstore Basketball has gained in its two decades of existence (Photo by Kenneth Osgood). 
~l 
.. 



former two-time Bookstore MVP, is one of the guards. He filled in for "Tequila" when former Irish quarterback Jake Kelchner went down with an injury last tournament, and will return this year. Linebacker Brian Ratigan rounds out the lineup for this group. 
•Just 
Chillin'. Ray Griggs carried this team to the round of eight last year. A question concerning this team has emerged however. Dave Clar, one of the keys for "Chillin'," tore several ligaments in his ankle and will miss the tour­nament, so it remains to be seen who will replace him. "Chillin"' will also miss Griggs for a few games while he is at football practice. 

•Other 
teams to watch in­clude the "Gauchos," who re­turn All-Tournament pick Ray Vasquez, "Paradise Jam," "Multiple Scoregasms" and "Fast Break." 


Here then, is the way this writer sees the whole thing winding up. 
"Adworks" will be off and running, and with their speed and athletic ability will blow many teams out, even when Levens is at practice. 
"Tequila White Lightning," with its tremendous size also should have its way with its opponents, all the way to a direct collision course with "Adworks." 
The championship will be yet another good game, with Dolan going against his former team. "Adworks'" speed and "Tequila's" size will be in direct contrast. The key will be guard play for "Tequila." If their guards can stand up to the pressure "Adworks" is sure to show, and can get the ball inside to the big men, "Adworks" will have its work cut out for them. 
If "Adworks" can force ··~· turnovers and turn the game into a track meet, however, they will have a chance to steal the game from "Tequila." Another key matchup will be Kevin Ellery against Jim Dolan, Ellery's coach on the basketball team. Ellery is used to playing taller players, so he will be able to fight to at least a standoff. 
Yet another factor to con­sider is the weather. If stiff winds or wet conditions dictate a slow pace, "Tequila" will be at an advantage. 
This game is very, very tough to pick, but if I had to choose, I would pick ... "Adworks." "Tequila White Lightning X" is a solid club with good guards, but I just can't see them matching "Adworks" back­court. So Derrick Johnson, in his final Bookstore Tournament, will get a championship. 
occurs now, with varsity Sudkamp, after being named the beginning of Bookstore's Lightning" on six different oc­players from Saint Mary's and Mr. Bookstore and Bookstore second decade. But the casions.

History 
Notre Dame playing on the MVP in two of his first four Commissioner declined the of­"Tequila White Lightning," best teams." tournaments, garnered his first fer because ESPN wanted to now in its 1Oth year of
continued from page 4 
While Conboy appreciated Bookstore championship in his televise the game on a Tuesday Bookstore play, has made great 
Oying to make it to the finals. the addition and expansion of fifth attempt. Laimbeer took night, rather than on the tradi­strides and must be considered Women's Bookstore, fielding 75 Bookstore MVP honors in his tional final Sunday of An one of Bookstore's all-time teams this year, she realizes final year. Tostal. consistently powerful teams.
In the first women's 
that Bookstore Basketball is In their first Bookstore outingBookstorP. championship, held 
during Bookstore VII, "Lally's the campus-pleaser. The 1980's brought style to While Conboy takes claim for in 1981, "Tequila," playing in Bookstore, as "The Doobies" playing in three different the Sweet 16, was described as
Team" scrapped their way to a 
21-19 win against "Helen "The women's tournament sported personalized uniforms decades, Notre Dame graduate a team of freshman, yet "they doesn't detract from the for the first time in history. and Ticket Manager Bubba simply destroyed a very strong 
Gorman's Team from Badin." 
overall tournament, and after Although Hanzlik, eligible for Cunningham, now entering his 'Nell's R.C.M.P.s' to get here. the first two or three rounds, Bookstore after completing his 11th year of play, can't escape They are strong outside shoot­Former women's varsity bas­
the players really showcase varsity eligibility, pumped in the lure of Bookstore. ers who rarely miss," reported 
ketball player and current 
what they can do as a team," nine points, Irish quarterback "I wasn't going to play last the April 23, 1981 edition of
Assistant Athletic Director 
said Conboy, who, after playing Rusty Lisch snagged his third year, but one of the players [on The Observer. Some thingsMissy Conboy is playing in her in Bookstore for the last three Bookstore title and was named "Tequila White Lightning"] got never change.
third decade of Bookstore, but 
years, will be the youngest Bookstore MVP. In three years hurt and they asked me if I
don't try to make any deduc­
tions-she's really not that old. player on a Women's Bookstore of Bookstore action, "The could give them one more Bookstore Basketball, fortu­team that includes Irish Chumps," (and slight variations year," said Cunningham, who nately, hasn't changed much women's basketball coach thereof) compiled a 19-1 played all four years in his un­either. Twenty years and
"I had the opportunity to play 
Muffet McGraw. record. dergrad days. almost 700 teams later,in both the men's and women's 
tournament in my undergrad • • • Bookstore attracts thousands Bookstore VIII in 1979 saw As Bookstore's popularity has "It's a lot of fun for the un­of players hoping to bring
years, and they were both 
the Hanzlik-coached "Chumps" increased, it has gained na­dergraduates, and that's where home the championship. Butgreat fun," said Conboy, who 
has played in 1977, '78, '79, win a championship battle over tional acclaim. ESPN, the na­the emphasis should be," said even for the opening round the "Butchers," 21-19. Math tional cable sports network, Cunningham, who has played losers, they become a part of
'88, '89, and '90. "There was 
professor Tom "Suds" wanted to televise the finals at against "Tequila White history from the first "Ball In!" 
the same type of stacking that 
-


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL '91
page4 April10, 1991 
Bookstore Basketball: HISTORY OF BOOKSTORE


the first score is history 
BASKETBALL 
By DAVE MCMAHON can do about it now." only-slam dunk contest. Joe Associate Sports Editor While the need for such an Montana and Monk Molloy, 

CHAMPIONS
involved staff has arisen out of along with Batton, were named No one could have imagined necessity, Bookstore's early to the All-Bookstore team. 
1972 The Family 211 Hawks and Geese 12
that Bookstore Basketball years weren't so complicated, In a catastrophe that insti­would evolve into such a spec­mainly because of the limited gated a change of venues, the 1973 The 31 Club 211 Bafin Exiles 19 tacular event, attracting play­number of interested players. roof of the Hammes Notre 
1974 Ducks 211 Club 311117
ers of all shapes and sizes who Dame Bookstore caved in dur­bring with them levels of talent The first few years of ing the finals of Bookstore V A 1975 Club 31111211 Average White Team 18 
that cause some to take them­Bookstore saw varsity basket­year later, 3500 fans 
selves seriously, as well as ball players dominate, as the converged on the roof again, 1976 TILCS 111221 Average White Team 20 those who take more interest NCAA rule forbidding their this time causing the 
1977 TILCS IV 21 1Average White Team 17
in naming their teams than in play was not passed until just University to force a change their on-court performance. before Bookstore XIII in 1979. from behind the Bookstore to 1978 Leo's Last 211 Chumps Too 18 
The inaugural Bookstore courts behind the Athletic and Now in its 20th year, champions, "The Family," gave Convocation Center because of 1979 Chumps 111211 The Butchers 19 the possibility of students
Bookstore Basketball was the new meaning to a "stacked" 1980 Defending Chumps 21 I Strappamasquon
brainchild of Vince Meconi and team. Future NBA players falling off the roof. Fritz Hoefer, who, along with John Shumate and Gary and the Combat Wombats 11 help of a few roommates and Brokaw joined with varsity Presumably because of a 
1981 Reclassified 'Nads 221 TPS 20
friends, organized a schedule teammates Pete Crotty, Dwight lack of students willing to and rules for the 53 teams en­Clay, and Irish football player organize the tournament itself, 1982 Full House 21 I Eddie O'Rourke and the 
tered .in the five-on-five tour­Cliff Brown to cruise to an easy the field was limited to 250 nament. Twenty years later, 21-12 win over "Hawks and teams during Bookstores V, VI, Traveling Stragglers 17 and VII.
6 70 teams are battling for the Geese" in front of 500 fans at 1983 Macri's Preferred Stock 21 I Tequila White 
championship of the world's the "Rick." In a move that While the women did not yet largest amateur five-on-five would be absolutely unheard have their own tournament, Lightning 15 basketball tournament. of in the current era of they could form their own 
1984 Macri's Preferred Stock 21 I Tequila White
Junior Kevin McGee, after Bookstore, Meconi moved the teams or join a men's team. apprenticing during last year's fmals inside because of casual Dana Snoap, the lone women Lightning 12 tournament, has taken the water on the Bookstore Courts. on her Bookstore V team, was 
the first woman named to the 1985 Revenge of the Fun Bunch 21 I Rousseau's
time-consuming task of run­ning the show for Bookstore A sampling of names from All-Bookstore team. 
Noble Savages 16 
XX. As Head Commissioner, the 1972 An Tostal sideshow Batton also carried his team McGee works with 13 includes "The Boys," "Mellow to the finals in Bookstore VI, as 1986 Lee's BBQ Roundhouse 21 I Leone's Executive, Assistant, and People," "Leo's Lunchmeats," the "TILCS" rolled over the 
Stallions 15
Associate Commissioners. In "White Pearls," "Average White Team" for the his second year with "Exhibitionists," and "Last second consecutive year. 1987 Da'Brothers of Manhood 21 I Leone's Bookstore, McGee believes the Gasp." Hey, it was the 70's. Batton became the first two­tasks of organizing such an The turnout for Bookstore II time tournament MVP and Stall ions 15 event could not be handled by nearly doubled from the previ­etched his name in Bookstore 
1988 Adworks 211 Tequila White Lightning 18 
someone without experience. ous year, as 102 teams took to history. "Roman Polanski's "It's been an ongoing tradi­the courts for the coveted Babysitting Service" took Best 1989 Malicious Prostitution 21 I Adworks 19 tion for a few years now to Bookstore title. Irish quarter­Name honors, besting a field of 
1990 Malicious Prostitution 21 I Adworks 19
have one commissioner in back Tom Clements scored 256 teams. 


training to get prepared for seven points as his team, "31 "TILCS" became the first next year," said McGee. "It's Club," held off the "Badin Bookstore dynasty, making it to rewarding for the commis­Exiles," 21-19, before a stand­the semi-finals of Bookstore sioner to be able to take on the ing room only crowd at the VII in 1978 before bowing to job by himself after so much Athletic and Publication "Leo's Last," the last of 256 en­preparation during the previ­Center. The fmal, held on the tries in the tournament. Joe ous year." Friday of An Tostal, was Montana scored seven points 
Because of its immensity, this broadcast live on WSND. for "TILCS" in their last hur­year's tournament hasn't gone Bookstore V in 1976 was a rah. In the finals, Irish varsity without it snags. year of firsts, and in one case a player Jeff Carpenter scored "Our major areas of concern last. WSBT-TV televised the fi­eight points as "Leo's Last" were the sign-ups, censoring nals for the first time. Irish outdueled Bill Hanzlick's the names, and scheduling a and future NBA player Dave "Chumps Too" for the title. tournament this size," said Batton, 6-9, led the "TILCS" to Laimbeer's "Tappa Kegga Bru" McGee. "We've had some the first of their back-to-hack squad put up a strong fight, problems with teams that are titles. But more astoundingly, but may not have whined scheduled to play this Saturday future Detroit Piston Bill enough or had enough elbows 


because of Christmas in April, Laimbeer won the first­The Observer/Brendan Regan
see HISTORY/page 3 
but there's not a whole lot we ever-and probably his 
A tribute to 20 years of Bookstore hoops 
Twenty years. A chance for ------­
sentimentality-or cynicism, depending on how you look at it-as the grand old game nears legality. 
It's not just time that serves as the measuring stick for Bookstore Basketball. It's tal­ent, interest, surprise and mys-Greg Guffey tique that have helped this , . event pass the first milestone 90-91 Sports Ed1tor that really matters. 


It is safe to say that Bookstore Basketball has exceeded the dreams of even those who still think the Cubs will win another World Series. The biggest sign of a good tourney is one in which people remember the event rather than the winners. 
It's a tournament as old as Digger Phelps' reign at Notre Dame, and it will likely be here long after he leaves. It's outlasted three Irish football coaches, the USFL, the ABA, the Senior Baseball League and soon the WLAF. It's the dominating event in a lackluster spring festival known as An Tostal. 
It's the only event that can draw Commons owner Pasquale to campus, bragging about how he sponsors the two-time defending champs. And Pasquale is probably the only owner who makes the team pick up the check after the last call. 
It is a tournament that allows university presidents and former hoop stars to show they can still shoot the jumper. It is one that shows Father Time waits for no one, including Father Malloy. 
It is a jock-dominated event which everyday students actually win once in a while, evidenced by Joe Scott's legendary performances the past two years. At the very least students have a better chance of winning than Halley does of seeing his comet. 
It is a tournament which manages to attracts some of the worst, intimidated referees in the history of organized basketball. James Naismith rolls over when he hears one blow his whistle. 
Other than the Dodge NIT, it is the only tourney which waits to see who wins in order to seed the final 16 teams. It is unmistakably the only tourney which allows teams to pick first-and sometimes second-round opponents. 
It is the only tourney whose strengths so far overshadow its weaknesses. It is the only event on campus, including those twice-weekly lectures by always in demand Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, that can draw a bigger and more enthusiastic crowd than the Tuesday specials at Coach's. 
In a day of greed and money, it is a tourney which is still played for just fun and a trophy. At least unless the score is close and the crowds are big. 
It is a tourney that keeps with every other campus event and makes fun of Ricky Watters whenever possible. It is one in which crowds cheer Bubba Cunningham after building up a fall of hatred over football tickets. 
It is a tourney in which teams without a snowball's chance in hell of even making a basket, let alone winning a game, pay five American dollars to make fools of themselves. Most succeed. 
It is a tourney which became so big that it outgrew its name by moving the finals to Stepan. But Stepan Basketball just didn't have the same ring. 
It insists on no more than one past or current basketball player, or three total football players on a team. The executive brain trust is still deciding on whether a team can have more than one chemical engineering major. 
But this is supposed to be a party. 
Light the candles. Strike up the band. 
Happy Birthday, Bookstore Basketball. 
-
-
•L 
----~---­
-




Accent 
Wednesday, April 10, 1991 page 11 
Victims of Terror 
Snite sponsors French Revolution-era letter readings 
By SCOTT SMORON Accent Writer 
You've read about the Terror, now hear the letters by those who nxperienced it. 
A dramatic reading of letters written by French prisoners during thn Heign of Terror will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, April IJ and 10, at the Snite Museum of Art. The readings will begin at 3 
p.m. in the Ninnteenth-Century Gallery and will last approximately one hour. Charles-Louis Muller's masterpiece, 'The Last Roll-Call of the Vietims of Terror," will serve as a backdrop for the reading. 
The reading has been organized by John Shields of the Snite. He was motivated to stage this reading by the recent availability of letters written by victims of the Terror and their relevance to Muller's masterpiece. 
"Since we have first-hand documents from prisoners, we can add a new dimension to the art," said Shields. "The prisoners were allowed to write letters to loved ones, but the letters wound up bning eonfiscated and put in boxes." 
Letters written by Queen Marie-Antoinette, the poet Andre Chenier, and Charlotte Corday, the patriot and murderess of Mar at. will be featurnd. 
The letters explore the hopes and doubts of these prisoners as they face the prospects of being set free or being put to death. Their dreams for freedom and fears of death are common to us all, and thnir historical significance should be of interest to many students. 
"Anyone may be interested in this," said Shields. "Art, gov­ernment, history, there is something for every student." 
Staff, staff assistants, and students will be assisting Shields with his presentation. Reservations are appreciated due to the limited number of seats at each reading. Reserve your own place by calling 239-5466. 
LAST LETTERS: 
DRAMATIC READINGS OF THE VICTIMS OF 
THE REIGN OF TERROR 1793-94 
PERFORMED: TUES., APRIL 9TH 
CAST: 
Narrator -------------------------------------John Shields Judge d 'Homay ----··--·-----··-·----------1ohn Coffman Aimee de Coigny, -------------------------Tracey Daugherty 
Duchesse of Fleury 

Cecile Quervain ------···-------------------Mary Jones Baron Trenck -------------------------------Matthew Murphy Olympe de Gouges --------------·---------Diana Matthias Therese-Caroline Choiseul-Stainville ,. June Kramer 
Princess ofMonaco 

Charlotte Corday -----·-·----------------Leone Michel Antoine-Quentin Fouqier-Tanville ----Doug Heberle Queen Marie-Antoinette ------·-··--·---Anna Dits 
Andre Chenier-·--------------·--·--------Matthew Murphy 
WED., APRIL 1OTH 
John Shields John Coffman Tracey Daugherty 
Mary Jones 
John Coffman Diana Matthias Arlene Hunter 
Leone Michel Richard Delevan Anna Dits 
Richard Delevan 

Rae uetball for weenies and other computer games 
------.. 


My entire section is sick. 
This probably doesn't sound too surprising. After all, South Bend's wonderful weather. easy-going academics and qual­ity dining can be tough on your immune system. Some days Notre Dame seems like a flu colony. Still, this is a special problem. Antibiotics won't help. It's a computer virus. 
I'm serious. My Macintosh, as nice as it is for composing columns like this one, is a health risk. It's the carrier of a horrible infection that is affiict­ing most of my section. They're missing classes, skipping meals and rarely sleeping. Worse, it mutates almost weekly, making it impossible to contain. As soon as the section builds up a resistance to one strain, say Tetris, another one appears. 
The newest variety is a super­virus that is virtually resistant to traditional treatment. It's called NFL Challenge, and gradepoints are falling. Conversations like this one are becoming typical: 
"This is amazing. It inter­cepted me five times-" 
Don't you have a midterm tomorrow?"What? Yeah, sure, but listen to this: Last week my 
starting  quarterback  gets  
injured on the first play!  Can  
you believe that?"  

Chuck Young Fresh Perspective 
It all started innocently enough. A guy down the hall put a copy of Risk into my computer and made a habit of playing. It wasn't long before he was hooked, and since a real good game of Risk requires two players. it was contagious. 
Soon someone was at the computer day and night. It was like having a third roommate. I started planning to write my papers during "Cheers," the only time I knew the Mac would be free. I even considered bor­rowing a Nintendo to distract them long enough for me to write my column. 
Understandably, for a while I thought they were possessed. I considered asking Father Griffin, who lives down the hall, to perform an exorcism on my computer's hard drive. He could earn a few bucks, sell the story to 60 Minutes, and maybe get his column syndicated. 
But after witnessing their ob­session for a few weeks. I de­termined that it must be a men­tal illness. What could I do? I 
tried calling Counseline, but they didn't have a tape for peo­ple with computer game addic­tions. 
I have a friend in Grace who ran into a similar problem. 
"My section was addicted," he told me. "I could be sleeping, studying, talking to my girl­friend, whatever, but someone was always playing Tetris. It wasn't malicious. They just couldn't stop. It was like rooming next to the LaFortune Anytime banking machine. 
"Anyway, one day I was trying to study and the noise from the game was driving me crazy. So I asked this guy, Greg, if he would please stop playing while I studied. He didn't pay any at­tention. Maybe he was so into the game he couldn't hear me. So I went up to the computer and shut it off-and he went nuts! 
He started beating on me. Not your normal male-bonding type of beating. A real pummeling. He kept hitting me and shouting about his high score. 
"It had gone too far. I deleted the game the next day. "Of course, now they play Risk." 
Risk is a computerized ver­sion of a famous boardgame that allows would-be war mon­gerers to conquer the world in the comfort of their very own living room. All the fun of rav­aging continents while destroy­ing thousands of your own people, without the hassles of living in underground bunkers and dodging enemy Smart mis­siles who outscored you on the S.A.T. 
During the war, Risk was re­ally popular in my dorm. The guys all wanted to be little Sadaam Husseins or George Bushes. I'm not sure which. I don't think they really cared. I talked to one of the five-star generals yesterday. 
"Hey, Chuck, do you want to play some racquetball?" 
Yeah, that sounds great, I said. (He was healed! He wanted to do something away from the computer.) 
"O.K. Let me go get it." He came back with a disk and loaded a game. The screen showed the rearview of a rac­quetball court and two players with racquets. 
"Here, you can serve. This is a great game. You can even hook up it up to a modem so you can play people in other dorms." 
Look out, ND. It's spreading. 
Ed. Note: Chuck's column appears every other Tuesday in The Observer. Honest. 

~-------------~ 
eage 12 Wednesday, April 10, 1991 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the -Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. hours 1 0-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 2~3-2342 corner of ND Ave. & Howard 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award 
Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514. 
TUTOR WITH PH.D. AND 10 YRS. 
UNIVERSITY TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST BUSINESS & ECON. STUDENTS IN ECON & MATH COURSES. 272-3153. 
Word Processing 
Quick service, color printing available Call Betty at 7458 or leave message (289-1321) 
Professional, fast, accurate typing done for your term papers, reports, resumes, etc. Reasonable rate. Call or leave message at 299-1737. 
RESUMES/TERM PAPERS/THESES Guaranteed Lowest Rates. 256-6657. 
Annenberg Friday 2 pm Clear your bowels before you go 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: A Minella Camera in a black Eddie Bauer pouch. Believed to have been lost 3/28/91 in 127 Niewland. If found please call Scott @ 27j-9355. REWARD!!!!! 
Found: A gold braclet near the Dome. A name and date are inscribed on the braclet. To claim please call Ajay at 5749 or 287-4869. 

LOST: a navy blue windbreaker, with "Mountainside Community Pool Staff" on it between LaFortune & Fisher on Mon 3/25. Be real cool and return it to Jeff x1873. 
LOST: KEYS! 3 keys on two attached rings-one room key, one mail key (#139) and one padlock. Lost 4-2 possibly in 117 Haggar. Please call X4092 if you can help. 
LOST: IN OR NEAR LOFTUS, A DIAMOND RING OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL 257­8154. 
I left my glasses in the Physics 222 Lab on the third floor of Nieuland on March 26. If you have any information, please call mel I I am blind without them!! Nicole x4907 
HELPIII HELPI!I HELPI!! I left an orange suade jacket in the Loftus Auditorium after the Physio exam on 4-4. My ID is in the pocket. If you found it, please call Dianne @ 2467. 
Lost keys on U of 0 keychain around NOH, library, or D2. If found call Amy X3391 
LOST: RING WITH 5 SMALL DIAMONDS IN SHAPE OF A V. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO 208 KNOTI HALL. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
HELPI!INEED A ROOMATE FOR CASTLE PT. NEXT YEAR-CALL DOUG X2051 

American Au Pair nanny specialists.  FOR SALE  
Carefully screened families. Full  
benefits, airfare, good wages, Nanny support system, no fees. Local interview-call Joan 616-684­1451.  sofa, luv seat, carpet window seats (Fl. & Gr.) X1583  
1990 CAVALIER Z24, it. blue, low  
miles, sharp. Call 271-8920.  
CINCINNATI -I need a ride this weekend II! If your going and want company and money for gas, please call Kristen at 283-2927.  For Sale: 1982 VW Rabbit Great condition, new battery, 1OOk miles. $950 OBO. Call Jeff @1786.  
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment fo1 the summer. I'm interning in the  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  
Bend, so I won't be around much. Call John at 283-3574.  89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage­ 
45/city 50/highway  
Wanted: A bicycle in good condition. Call Nicole x4049.  Still has factory warranty excellent buy, call Pat 288-5678  
HELP! NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OH. THIS WKEND. CALL 284-5196  ONE-WAY TIC TO SAN DIEGO, 5/19 FRM CHI. $150 OR B/O.CALL MIKE 288-7797.  
LOOKING FOR CONDO/APT. TO  
SUBLEASE FOR SUMMER. CALL  Do you need a flight home to  
JANET 283-3831.  Boston this spring? We're selling a  
one-way ticket from Chicago to  
Sitter for two boys. Age 5 and 3.  Boston on Sat., May 11 . It leaves at  
Flexible, own transportation.  2:05p.m. and arrives at 5:26 p.m.  
Sunnymede area.  289-9649.  Only $89.  
If interested, call Kelley or John at  
FOR RENT  '  239-5303.  

L--------1 I TICKETS 
GRAD. WEEKEND . BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
I NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS. CALL JOHN X2325. 
3 Bedroom House 
One-way air from Chi. to LA. 5/11. Close to Campus 
$110, x4243 $555 Month + Deposit Ten Month Lease 232-3616 
Need 2 grad tix for Grandma and Grandpa before they kick. Ron, HOUSES FOR LEASE 91-92 Yr. 
x3504. 3-7 Bedroom, Furnished, Reasonable Rates. Call at 232-1776. 
Spitting distance 2 PAUL SIMON TICKETS On the floor, 6th row center An attractive studio in lovely old Call Pat @2466 mansion near N.D. $300 now renting .for summer &fall 91 call 2879624 I need two tickets to Paul Simon 
Best Locations, Best Houses, Have (not bleachers). 
your own yard. 233-9947. 
Call Brigid #284-5239. 
Quaint furnished apts. near ND. for summer or fall semesters. FOR SALE -effeciency $225 PAUL SIMON TICKETS -1 bedroom $260 
FOR APRIL 16TH SHOW. 
-2 bedroom $360 GREAT SEATS. ROW 4 AND 13. deposit, references 616-CALL X 3790 483-9572 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD Female roomate(s) needed to TICKETS! Call Jerry x1069 sublet Turtle Creek apt. for summer. 
One way ticket Chicago to Call Jackie x4121 or Meg x4054 Newark 5/16 -must be female. $100 negot. 272-7727 
Moving to NYC/ or Summer Internship? ·Female non-smkr roommate needed to share large PERSONAL mnhttn apt -safe, great neighbrhd, near Central Park, Subway; Price 
Resumes .... Professional quality 
Negoc. Contact: Linda Filar (ND 272-5667. (Tom Williams)
'90) (212) 968-3937 on wkdys; or 
write: 711 Amsterdam Ave, 25M, WITH BEST WISHES 
· NYC, NY 10025. Apt available mid­Wedding Consultant for N.D/ 
May. SMC students. Phone 272-5640. 
Condo for summer rental 2 bdrm 1 mi. from ND 272-5708 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS 2 Bdrm. 2 Bath Oak Hill Condo. 
SUMMER? Jet there with $650 unfurnished, $800 furnished. AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the Avail. for Summer and 91-92 School Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. yr. Call Michelle at X4970. (As reported in NY Times and Let's Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 
KOONTZ HOUSE BED & 
BREAKFAST WEEKEND 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE 
GETAWAY. 23 miles south of campus on 
NORTH OF ND 2773097 Koontz Lake. 586-7090.
Students wanted to sublease apt. 
for summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. -Blaize x1654 PREGNANT?
Students wanted to sublease apt. 
Whoops! Is "Our Baby" growing infor summer. RENT NEGOTIABLE. 
your tummy by accident? Loving -Blaize x1654 doctor and his stay-at-home wife would like to discuss Baby's future SUBLETIOR AND/OR RENTOR with you. Please call collect NEEDED anytime. (219) 462-5250 Michael &Turtle Creek Apts, 2-bdrm Debra.
sublet from June -August and/or share lease from January­May call x3828 
I got it. Come. And be my baby. 
AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR AUGUST 
1. FOUR BEDROOM HOME WITH TWO COMPLETE BATHS. COMPLETELY FURNISHED. To all ENGL 491A warriors: "War is CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL the nightmare where adults feel like 234-9364. children" ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor and teacher, longing to share our love with newborn. We'll give your baby a caring, warm, and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect 212-874-3537. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00am. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFJ call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Happy 18th Birthday to Howard's Colleen Casey! Love, Mom, Dad, Judy, Mike, and Kevin 
Win a free Mac SE!III! The Mystery Mac made an appearance on the 8th. Did you see it? If you did, remember where and register to win it at the Hesburgh Library Computer Lab this week. The drawing will be held on the 18th at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
YOU MUST BE PRESENT TO WIN!! 
MIKE, MARK, BOSE, TONER, TITO, PHIL, CHRIS, KEN, AND EVERYONE THERE-THANKS FOR THE SUPPORT! YOU GUYS ARE GREAT! BOXANDONE 
TRANSFERS! TRANSFERS! 
Sign up to work transfer orientation. Mandatory Meeting in the Foster Room at 7:30pm TONIGHT! (3rd floor La Fortune). 
Happy Birthday, Agi!!lll!l Happy Birthday, Agi!!!!!!! Happy Birthday, Agi!!!!l!! Happy Birthday, Agi!!l!l!! Happy Birthday, Agi!!llll! Happy Birthday, Agi!!!!!l! Happy Birthday, Agi!!!!!l! 
Irish Music & Dancing with SEAMAISIN Sat, Club 23 9 pm until whenever ends 
'Go Beat' OFF would like to thank the support (ha-ha) of that rucous crowd on Mndy's game. Groovy posters. 
Who is Joe Evans??? Ask Raz. Who is Gonzo?????? Ask Raz. 
Who is John Galt??? ??? Happy 100th Day Michael! (do you speak French?) 
Engineers' Week: Weightless Wednesday 'Engineers' Lunch North & South Dining Halls 'Egg Drop 4pm Engineering Student Center 'Doubles Billiards Tourney 8pm LaFortune Billiard Room 
•senior Bar Night Alumni/Senior Club 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
STUDENTS: Going home for the summer? Need a place to stash your stuff? We have the place for you I JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE 272-2400 
STAYING FOR THE SUMMER? I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment lor the summer. I'm interning in the Bend, so I won't be around much. Call John at 283-3574. 
c 
H 
R 0 N I 
c 
D 
Hey Everyone!! c Guess whose birthday it is ... H (Besides Elvis's dad) 
R 
0 AGOTA BARDOS!!!I!!I!!!!!!!! N I Happy 19th Birthday, Agi!!!!! c For your birthday, we hope you get 
some...birthday cake, that is!!!!!!!\ D E Have a wonderful day!!!!!!! 
s 
I Annenberg R Friday, 2 pm. FREE E Your granny wouldn't like it 
but you might 
Senior Bar'Friday'4/12 To all the jerks in the Grace Study Lounges who were watching us battle the rabid goose who stole our 
c basketball: H Your rude comments were not R appreciated and we only have one 0 thing to say ...... . N I AT LEAST WE ONLY LOST ONE c OF OUR BALLS!!!! 
D How's that for telling them? E 
s Just wanted to let Ms. Ann Hickey I know that from what I've seen of R your competition (The Tall One E Can't Play Either) You better not be 
so cocky missy 11!1 Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 
Congratulations Jeremy and Laurie: c The new president and H vice-president of the Notre Dame R Marching Band!!! 0 N Monica (Y!) I Hi. ..... c I know it's gay but at least it's a 
personal. D Liz a E s Come and see Jill "I know I'm short, I but I'll kill you in a fight" Miller make R her bookstore basketball debut E today at 5:00 at the bookstore 
courts. SHE'S AWESOME!!!!! Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 Are you listening Ann? 
c 
H The team to watch ...... (Digger was
R 
even at their last practice!) .... 
0 
"The Tall One Can't Play Either"N Watch out Hickey!
I 
c 
Air Miller ....... Catch the Wave!!!!!! 
D 
E 
s 
ST· EDWARD'S HAll FORUM
I R 
Father Oliver 
E 
Williams, CSC 
Senior Bar-Friday-4/12 
Associate Provost 
speaks on 
ENGINEERS' WEEK 
"My Recent Visit 
TREASURE HUNT CLUE #3 
With 
HIS NICKNAME IS A BORATE MINERAL, (Mg,Fe3+)2 Fe3+B05 
Nelson Mandela" 
BUT BETWEEN YOU AND ME, HE 
Wednesday, April 10 
NEVER LIKED IT WHEN THEY 
7p.m.
ADDED THE (ITE). 
ST. fDWARD'S HAll FORUM 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON-ROME OPENINGS STILL AVAILABLE . College courses and travel May & June, Info. call Prof. A.A. Black 284­
Guatemalan 
4460(office) 272-3726(home) 
Imports 
Hey, you, don't look now, 
Saint Mary's College 
but here it is, Holy Cowl 
LeMans Hall 
LES MJSERABLES 
April 8-12 
for $50 buck, on April 11, wow wh< 
10 am-5 pm
luck! Do you want it?Yes you do! ·t LaFortune Info Desk has a ticket 101 you! 
Purses, hats, belts, shirts, vests, other
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL HOME OPENER!!! GOOD LUCK AGAINST 
accessories, and 
PURDUE-YOU GUYS SHOULD BE IN GREAT SHAPE AFTER ALL OF 
traditional 
OUR AEROBICS!! 
Guatemalan clothing 
GOOD LUCK! LOVE, DIRTY DEB 
and weavings. 
T A (we're not chronic desire) A % of Sales goes back R but we are at T McCORMICK'S A McCORMICK'S R McCORMICK'S across 
from the marriott. G FRIDAY, 12TH 10-2am· U BE THERE! (your mom will. N 

E 
s 
I 
R 
E 
How you live 

Senior Bar'Friday'4/1~, .• , , , . 
. may. saye your life. 

SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS
BASEBALL STANDINGS BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Results from Bookatore Baaketball XX:AMERICAN LEAGUE Atlantic Division Tuesday, April 9, 1991E811 Dlvlelon w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 
y-Boston 54 21 .720 6-4 Lost 1 33-5 21·16 33-14 Gina's Pizza d. Saddam Hussein, Pete Raddics .
Detroit 1 0 1.000 1-0 Won I 1-0 0-0 x-Philadelphia 42 33 .560 12 6-4 Won2 27-10 15-23 30-18 ., 21-6Milwaukee 1 0 1.000 1-0 Won 1 0-0 1-0 x-New York 36 40 .474 18 112 3-7 Lost 1 18-20 18-20 25-23 Ben-wa Basketballs d. Liz it or Lose it, 21-9Boston 1 1 .500 112 1-1 Lost\ 0-0 1-1 Washington 27 48 .360 27 4-6 Lost3 19-18 8-30 19-30 We Could Beat Buller d. Hey Mo ..., 21·1 0 Cleveland 1 1 .500 112 1-1 Won\ 0-0 1-1 New Jersey 23 53 .303 31 112 1-9 Lost6 18-20 5-33 15-34 Two Joes. Chris ... d. 3 Chicks, 2 Short ... 21-17Toronto I 1 .500 112 1-1 Wonl 1-1 0-0 Miami 22 53 .293 32 2-8 Lost4 16-22 6-31 13-34 Two Majors and Dads d. Transfers. 21-18Bailimore 0 1 .000 I 0-1 Lostl 0-1 0-0 
Central Division Power of the Triangle d. Navarre Noclurnals, forteitNew York 0 1 .000 0-1 Lostl 0-0 0-1 y-Chicago 56 20 .737 6-4 Wonl 33-6 23-14 37-11 We Can Score Quicker . . d. Pysche 5, 21-9Weet Dlvlelon x-Detroit 47 29 .618 9 6-4 Lost 2 30-8 17-21 30-18 Mike's Team d. Cease and Dismount, 21-17
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 
x-Milwaukee 46 30 .605 10 7-3 Won2 31-8 15-22 31-18 4 Genuines d. Nelsons, Ross Bros .... 21-17California 1 0 1.000 1-0 Wonl 0-0 1-0 x-Atianla 41 35 .539 15 4-6 Won3 28-10 13-25 24-26 Struggle w/ Name d. Bob Siabotnlk , 21-3Ch1cago 1 0 1.000 1-0 Wonl 0-0 1-0 x-lndiana 38 38 .500 18 6-4 Wonl 27-11 11-27 24-24 Gus' Wrecking d. Fighting Amish, 21-19Oakland I 0 1.000 1-0 Wonl 1-0 0-0 Cleveland 28 48 .368 28 5-5 Lost 1 19-18 9-30 19-30 No Clue d. AEMOD, 21-3Kansas City 1 1 .500 112 1·1 Lostl 1-1 0-0 
Charlene 23 54 .299 33 112 4-6 Lost3 15-23 8-31 15-35 As Long As We Don't .. d. Duel Dogs 3 , 21·16Minnesota 0 I .000 1 0-1 Lostl 0-0 0-1 5 Guys Who Celebrated . d. Ready, Break, 21-11 Seattle 0 1 .000 I 0-1 Lost 1 0-1 0-0 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Viclor Kiam ... d. Dalmer's Boys, 21-12Texas 0 1 .000 0-1 Lost 1 0-1 0-0 Midwest Division Omar's Camel Jockeys d. Mudda , forteit 
w l Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni Gooky Train d. Still Buzzln', 21-8 NATIONAL LEAGUE x·San Antonio 51 24 .680 9-1 Won4 31-7 20-17 32-17 Pezio Metric Heads d. Team 587. 21-3 E81t Dlvlelon x-Hous1on 49 26 .653 2 8-2 Lost 1 30-9 19-17 30-19 Powerbrokers d. 7os· Preservallon ..., 21-7 
w L Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away x-Utah 49 26 .653 2 7-3 Won1 31-5 18-21 33-16 Shamma Lamma d. Triumphant Return, 21-3 New York 2 0 1.000 2-0 Won2 2-0 0-0 Orlando 27 47 .365 23 112 6-4 Los11 21-17 6-30 22-30 Julius and 4 Others . d. Pulsating Dave Machine, St. LOUIS 1 0 1.000 112 1-0 Wonl 0-0 1-0 Dallas 26 48 .351 24 112 2-8 Lost 3 18-21 8-27 15-33 21-10 Montreal 1 1 .500 1 t-1 Lost 1 0-0 1-1 Minnesota 24 51 .320 27 3-7 Won 1 18-20 6-31 16-38 Mad Mexican Mixers d. Saddam, 3 ROTC.,., 21­Pittsburgh 1 1 .500 1 1-1 Won I 1·1 0-0 Denver 19 57 .250 32 112 1-9 Lost6 16-23 3-34 11-40 11 Ch1cago 0 1 .000 1 112 0-1 Losll 0-1 0-0 Pacific Division Counlry Western Afros d. Annoying Men, 21-12 Philadelphia 0 2 .000 2 0-2 Lost 2 0-0 0-2 x-Portiand 58 18 .763 10-0 Won 11 32--5 26-13 37-13 Maslers d. Frank Rizzo and 4 ..., fortelt Weet Dlvlelon x-LA Lakers 55 21 .724 3 7-3 Won5 30-8 25-13 37-13 All Pres. Men d. 4 Conservatives ..., 21-9 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away x-Phoenix 50 25 .667 7112 5-5 Lost3 28-8 22-17 30-19 Mealless Baked Ziti d. We Love Emgart, 21-5 Cincinnati 1 0 1.000 1-0 Won 1 1-0 0-0 x-Goiden State 39 37 .513 19 3-7 Lost 2 26-11 13-26 23-27 Saddam. Miami ... d. 4 Misogynists .... 21-11 San D1ego 1 0 1.000 1-0 Won1 1-0 0-0 Seattle 37 38 .493 20 112 6-4 Won2 24-12 13-26 23-26 J. Crew d. 1991: Year of Slow, White Guys, 24-22 Atlanla 0 0 .000 112 0-0 WonO 0-0 0-0 LA Clippers 30 45 .400 27 112 7-3 Won2 22-16 8-29 25-24 4 Musty Pelts . . d. Barstool Blues, 21-9 Los Angeles 0 0 .000 1/2 0-0 WonO 0-0 0-0 Sacra menlo 21 53 .284 36 3-7 Lost 1 20-16 1-37 14-33 New Kids d. Help 911, 21-11 Houston 0 1 .000 1 0·1 Lost1 0-0 0-1 x-clinched playoff berth Team 475 d. Arnold's Aug, 21-19 San Francisco 0 1 .000 I 0-1 Lostl 0-0 0-1 y-clinched division title 5 Man Acoustical Jam d. HO'S, 21-16 
Women's Bookstore Results: AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Monday's Games H.W.A. d. Eat Oat Bran, 21-12 Atlanta 105, Washington 94 San Antonio 115, Golden State 105Tueaday's Gamea The Economy Sucks . . d. Siegfried, 11-9 Toronto 4. Boston 3 Hooked On Fonlks d. Chopped Broccoli, 21-2Utah 111, Orlando 95 Seattle 118, Denver 112 Cleveland 2, Kansas City 1 Just Can't Handle 11 d. Girls . Never Score, 21-3 California 3. Seattle 2 Better Off Waner d. Short Shooters, 21-1 

Oakland 7. Minnesota 2 Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games NHL PLAYOFF RESULTS 
Lale Games No1 Included Wedneeday's Games Indiana 122, Charlotte 120 
Patrick Dlvlelon 
At Land0118r, Md.

New York (Sanderson 17·11) at Detroit (Terrell6-4), 1:35 p.m. Atlanta 1 04, Cleveland 98 N.Y. Rangers I 0 1-2Cleveland (Nagy 2·4) at Kansas City (App1er 12-8), 5:05p.m. Minnesota 109. New Jersey 89 Washinglon 0 2 1-3Boston (Young 8-18) at Toronto (Stonlemyre 13-17). 7:35p.m. Chicago 108, New York 106 First Perlod-1, New York, Nicholls 4Chicago (Hibbard 14-9) at Ba1t1more (Mesa 3-2), 7:35p.m. Portland 103, Houston 93 (Turcone, Gartner), 4:o4. 
Milwaukee (Bos1o 4-9) at Texas (K.Brown 12·1 0), 8:35p.m. Milwaukee 105, Detroil 95 
Second Perlod-2, Washington, Hatcher 1 {Tippett, Hunter), :25. 3, Washington, Tippett 1 

California (McCaskill t2-11) at Seattle (Johnson 14-11). 10:05 p.m. Golden Stale at Phoenix, (n) 
Minnesota (Anderson 7-18) at Oakland (Welch 27-6), 10:05 p.m. Orlando al LA Clippers, (n) Dallas a1 Sacramenlo, (n) 
(Ciccarem, Hunter), 15:31. Third Perlod-4, Washington, May 1 (Lalor, Wednesday's Games 
Bergland), 9:27. 5, New York, Janasens 2 (Leetch),NATIONAL LEAGUE 14:32.

Cleveland at Delroit, 7:30 p.m.

Tu81day'e Games 
Washington at Miami, 7:30p.m. Shots on goal-New York 8-7-6-21.
New York 2, Philadelphia 1, 10 mnings Washington 6-11-~26.
New York at Philadelphia. 8 p.m. 

St. Lou1s 4, Ch1cago 1 
Goalies-New York, Richter. Washington,
Chicago at Indiana, 8:30p.m. 

Los Angeles at Atlanta. ppd .. rain 
Portland at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Beaupre. A-15,741.
Pittsburgh 4. Montreal 3 
Dallas at Utah, 9:30 p.m. 

San D1ego 7, San Franc1sco 4 
LA Clippers vs. Seattle at Tacoma, 10:30 p.m. /lJ East Rutherford, N.J.
Only games scheduled 
Pittsburgh 0 0 1-1 New Jersey 2 0 2­First Period-1, New Jersey, C.Lemleux 1

Weaneaaay·a uamea Thursday's Games 
(Cigar, Muller), 6:45. 2, New Jersey, Stastny 3

St. Louis (Deleon 7-19) at Chicago (Maddux 15-15), 2:20p.m. Atlanta at Minnesola, 8 p.m. 
(Anderson, MadiiQ, 7:36.

Montreal (Boyd 10·6) at Pittsburgh (Z.Smlth 12-9), 3:05p.m. Boston at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. 
Second period-None.

Houston (Deshaies 7-12) at Cincinnati (Rijo 14-8), 7:35p.m. Houslon at Golden Stale, 10:30 p.m. 
Third Period-3, Pittsburgh, M.Lemieux 2

Philadelphia (DeJesus 7-8) at New York {Cone 14-10), 7:40p.m. Utah at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
(Young, Stevens), 4:41 {pp). 4, New Jersey,

Los Angeles (Belcher 9-9) at Atlanta (Smaltz 14·11), 7:40p.m. Orlando al Sacramenlo, 1 0:30 p.m. 
MacLean 3 (Shanahan, Morris), 16:42. 5, NewSan Francisco (Black 13-11) at San Diego (Hurst 11-9), t0:05 p.m. 

Jersey, C.Lernleux 2 (Brown, Kasatonov), 18:43 
{pp). 
Shols on goal-Pittsburgh 3-10-16-29. New Jersey 15-~10-34. Goalles-Phtsburgh, Barraaso. New Jersey, Terrerl. A-18,552. 

r.====~======~==~~:====~-~=====~-======~-~-~====~~~==~~~--------------~--~~~ll 
MEI-IAI{RY MEDICAL CoLLf:GE 
Graduate Studies in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 
At Meharry Medical College, graduate programs are available in Biochemistry and 1'-1olecular Biology leading to the Ph.D. degree. Opportunities exist for research in: 
• 
molecular biology -molecular genetics 

• 
membrane biophysics 

• 
transmembrane signalling, extracellular matrix and growth factor research 

• 
enzymology and structure-function relationships in macromolecules 

• 
cellular and metabolic regulation 

• 
cell biology of cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions 

• 
molecular virology 

• 
molecular neuroscience 

• 
regulation ofgene expression 


Tuition support IS provided tor all qnalified students, in addition to an annual stipend of up to $11,000. Meharry Medical College is a historically black institution. 
.. 

,-----------------------------------, 
MEIIARRY MEDICAL CollEGE 
1 Fellowships For Graduate StudJes In Biochemistry And Molecular Biology
Forfurther information I complete and mail form to: Pleas• Print I Name ________________Telephone --------------I Ifeanyi J. Arinze, Ph.D. I 
Address 
I
Chairman 
I

Dept of Biochemistry City, State, Zip-------------------­
I

Meharry Medical College I am interested in graduate study beginning~------___ Fall/Sprimo.-z______ I
Nashville, TN 37208 

to pursue Ph.D. M.S. I
Tel: (615) 327-6345 

I receive (expect to receive) the ----------____ degree in -------I Please send me appltcatton materials. I 
L-----------------------------------~ 
i 

page 14 The Observer 
Buffalo evens series in shoot out with Habs; Rangers and Penguins lose too 
(AP)-The Buffalo Sabres got even in the Adams Division semifinals by beating the Montreal Canadiens at pinball. 
The Sabres got more of the fortunate bounces Tuesday night as they beat the Canadiens 6-4 in a game that saw six of the 10 goals hit a de­fender's stick or skate before going into the net. Buffalo won its second straight home game to even the series after Montreal took the first two at The Forum. 
Buffalo led 3-2 after one pe­riod, with each of the five goals going into the net off a de­fender. Tony Tanti and Rob Ray added second-period goals for a 5-3 lead and Dale Hawerchuk scored on a third-period power play. 
Stephane Richer scored twice for the Canadiens. 
The teams have combined for 40 goals in four games, 10 more than they had in the Canadiens' six-game victory last year. 
The other Adams Division series is also even at two wins each. Hartford scored four times in the first 15:55 and held off Boston 4-3. 
Both Patrick Division series are also tied 2-2. Washington edged the New York Rangers 3­2 and New Jersey whipped Pittsburgh 4-1. 
The Norris and Smythe Division series resume on Wednesday night. In the Norris, it's Chicago at Minnesota and St. Louis at Detroit, while in the Smythe, Los Angeles is at Vancouver and Calgary visits Edmonton. The Blackhawks, Red Wings, Canucks and Oilers have 2-1 leads after winning on Monday night. 
ADAMS DIVISION Sabres 6, Canadiens 4 

Montreal took a 2-0 lead on deflected goals 16 seconds apart. But the breaks quickly evened out for the Sabres, who had three pucks hit Montreal defenders before going into the net. 
Tanti scored the first "clean" goal, beating substitute goal­tender Andre Racicot just 16 seconds into the second period with a wrist shot. 
Buffalo fired 43 shots at starter Patrick Roy and Racicot, who entered the game after Pierre Turgeon's weak backhander deflected off Montreal defenseman Alain Cote and past Roy at 12:30 of the first period, then left after Ray's goal 1:44 into the second period made it 5-2. 
Whalers 4, Bruins 3 

Hartford, which fell apart in the third period in Game 3 on Sunday night, held on this time after scoring all four of its goals in less than 16 minutes at the Civic Center. 
John Cullen had the Whalers' first goal and set up two by Mark Hunter for a 3-0 lead. After Dave Christian made it 3­1, Zarley Zalapski's goal at--------....... 
15:55 completed Hartford's scoring. 
Petri Skriko added Boston's second goal late in the first pe­riod and Ken Hodge cut the deficit to one goal with 5:32 left, but Peter Sidorkiewicz made several key saves to preserve the win. 
PATRICK DIVISION Capitals 3, Rangers 2 

With their scorers not pro­ducing, the Capitals got rare 
Some employers promise 
you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the worldbetter 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
goals from defensive specialist Dave Tippett and enforcer Alan May to beat the Rangers at the Capital Centre. 
Tippett set up Kevin Hatcher's game-tying goal 25 seconds into the first period after Bernie Nicholls' first-period goal gave New York an early lead. 
Tippett put the Caps ahead to stay at 15:31 and May's goal at 
9:27 of the final period -his first since December -proved to be the game-winner when Mark Janssens scored with 5:28 to play. 
Devils 4, Penguins 1 

New Jersey scored twice while totally dominating the first period, then held off Pittsburgh in the third at the Meadowlands. 
Claude Lemieux and Peter Stastny scored in a 55-second span during the first period, when New Jersey outshot Pittsburgh 15-3. Mario Lemieux cut the lead in half during a 5­on-3 power play at 4:41 of the third period, but Chris Terreri made 15 of his 28 saves in the final period. John MacLean and Claude Lemieux added late in­surance goals. 
i 


\ 
,/ \ 
•Limited Time. Come Early for Best Selection. 
~-----------------------­
-COUPON-
THis COUPON WORTH ~ .50 TOWARD PURCHASE OF ANY 
e 

'I' $3.98 or $4.98
50 50
CASSETTE FROM ANY COLLEGE SUPPLIERS MUSIC DISPLAY. LIMIT ONE COUPON PER CASSETTE PURCHASE. VALID UNTil 6-30-91. NOT VALID FOR ClASSICS SHOWCASE CASSETTES 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE., 
-oN Tt£ CAMPUS" 
., 

· •STARTS 4/8/91* 
50 ~:~~! S~:!I:!;ET~~::~EDIT 50~
'I' "'
PLEASE INCLUDE CUSTOMER NUMBER. 
REDEEMABLE IN YOUR BOOKSTORE ONLY 
"'-GRATEFUL D~D W-YNTON MARSALIS AEROSMITH BEETHOVEN BEST OF JAZZ. 
CHICAGO JIMMY BUFFETT LED ZEPPELIN BILLY JOEL VAN MORRISON 

~·······~~..~~*iFI~·~··~~·~·t<:..li·~·~·i······..··········l 
Executive Director of PAHL3 
• SUE GREER 
• -The Environment: : Whose ReSJlonsibility is it An~way?­
: April 
11

. 
EARTH DAy 1gg 1 
S d A -1 14 • 
un ay ~r-1 :
1-Sp_m_ , • 
Field South of MadeleVI ~«-~-: 
~ 
. 

: 7:30J!.m-Inform~tion booths .:,'. : 
: Haggar P~rl or Tree Planting Free food -' : 
• J • • v~
• Ben and erry s 5 o Clock ShaO.W b • 
• 1-~ • 
• Jce Crea't'utrofello/SU11lvan ~v : 
.1••••••••••~·········································································· 


-----~---------­
Wednesday, April10, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Arkansas to investigate basketball team Henderson attempts to 
break records in opener 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) ­A University of Arkansas stu­dent-faculty board took dis­ciplinary action following its investigation of a sexual inci­dent involving four basketball players and a woman in an athletic dorm, officials said Tuesday. 
But details of the board's action were scarce a day after it was released to the players. 
University officials remained mum in the face of criticism that action against the players was taken slowly. They said federal law prohibits talking about disciplinary action, even in generalities. 
A 34-year-old Springdale woman who said she was sex­ually assaulted Feb. 27 in the school's athletic dorm impli­cated four members of the basketball team. The players admitted having sex with the woman but said she consented. Police said the woman was le­gally drunk. 
Prosecutor Andrew Ziser said the woman decided not to press charges and he said there wasn't enough evidence to prosneutn. 
Coach Nolan Richardson sus­pnnded playnr Darrell Hawkins for the first three games of next season for having a woman in his room. Hichardson refused to say if he disciplined the other playnrs. 
Ziser relnased two statements on Tuesday from men who said they saw the woman the night of the incident. A doorman at a bar rncalled the woman dancing with s1weral players and then leaving with Hawkins. 
And Harvey Bryant said the woman repeatedly invited him to have sex with her. 
The woman's lawyer, Doug Norwood, said the woman didn't pursue charges because the prosecutor made it clear he wasn't going to press charges. 
"She knew not to beat that dead horse," Norwood said. He said the woman may file a civil suit against the players, the university and possible its board of trustees. 
The woman told police she thought she consented with one player but didn't think consent had been granted for the others. 
Her original statement said 10 to 26 men were involved, but the only name she was sure of was Hawkins. At another time, according to the police report, she said she had sex with 15 people. 
The woman told police she was led downstairs about 4:30 
a.m. and thrown out of the dorm. 
Chancellor Dan Ferritor, in the face of criticism from the public and media, revealed last weekend that he urged athletic director Frank Broyles on Feb. 28 to have Richardson take strong and immediate action against the players involved. 
Jim Blair, chairman of the board of trustees, said the university would have been better served if Ferritor's recommendation had been fol­lowed. He said a coach -un­like anybody else connected with the university -can ig­nore due process and bench or suspend a player for any rea­son. 
---Ih-e-0~~~-:--"~·---=-­
. -~~;L-=Y=-~.. 
is currently seeking Saint Mary's students who are interested in becoming involved as: 
Saint Mary's News Writers 
We will have an informational meeting April 1 0 at 8 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar Hall, Saint Mary's. If you have questions or are interested but cannot attend the meeting, contact Emily Willett at 284-5086, or Monica Yant at 239-5303. 
ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage 
Reserve Your Space Now! 

NQ Administration Fee .YES__Security System 
NQ Deposits YES On Site Manager NQ Increased Rents for YES. Free Locks for Students Students NQ Worries about Break­YES Low Prices Ins While on Vacations .YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 

North Side of Dougl•• Rd. 
-~ 

Between Grape Rd . .net St. Rd. 23 
Blair said he has received 
letters and calls from people 
accusing the university going 
easy on the players. 
He said the thirst by some members of the public for ac­tion against the players re­sembled a lynch-mob mentality. He said racism played a part in the criticism. The players are black; the woman is white. 
Marshall Carlisle, who rep­resents one of the players, said he and lawyers for the other players were considering an appeal of the board's decision. 
"You and I both know we would not be concerned with an appeal unless some discipline has been issued by the J­board," Carlisle said. 
University spokesman Jim Treadway said the school was forbidden by the 197 4 Family Educational and Privacy Act from discussing the board's action at all. But he said some general information, including what type of action was taken, would be released after the appeals process is complete. 
Asked if the need for an ap­peal means disciplinary action was taken against the players, Treadway said: "I think that would be a safe thing to assume based on what I'm saying." 
The usual appeal process won't be followed in this case because Ferritor said he can't hear the players' appeals, if filed, Treadway said. Ferritor's daughter, Kim Wood, 27, is an academic counselor in the athletic department, and advised at least one of the players in preparation for the board's review, Treadway said. 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -The Minnesota Twins are Rickey Henderson's favorite team to run against. 
They also happen to be Oakland's opening night oppo­nent Tuesday, when the Ath­letics' leadoff man resumes his quest to become baseball's all­time base stealer, health permitting. 
Henderson, 32, needs just three more base thefts to over­take record-holder Lou Brock (938). He is one shy of "Sliding" Billy Hamilton, who stole 937 bases between 1888 and 1901, the year baseball's modern era began. 
Of Henderson's 936 steals over 11-plus years in the major leagues, 83 have come against the Twins. He also has swiped 14 off Jack Morris, the Twins' starting pitcher who left Detroit to join Minnesota as a free agent. 
Henderson has been bothered in recent days by tendinitis in his left shoulder but was ex­pected to play in the opener de­spite missing the A's last five exhibition games. 
"He has made progress every day, and I think he will be ready to play," A's manager Tony La Russa said after watching Henderson work out Monday. "He is a great player and he knows what ready means." 
Henderson. who has com­plained about the A's refusal to renegotiate his contract, was noncommittal. 
"We will see," he said. 
Henderson, last season's American League MVP, has had plenty of base-stealing oppor­tunities thanks to his hitting ability. He hit .325 last season, with 159 base hits and 28 home runs. 
He stole 65 bases and was caught just five times last sea­son. 
Minnesota catcher Brian Harper nabbed him on one of those occasions but Henderson has been successful against Harper 16 other times. 
The 14 bases Henderson stole while Morris was on the mound are second only to the 16 he has swiped against Floyd Bannister. 
Tuesday night's opener also marked the start of the Athletics' drive for a fourth consecutive AL title. 
Their starting pitcher, Dave Stewart, entered the game with wins in his last 19 starts in April dating to 1987.. Last year, he was 5-0 with a 1.32 ERA in April. 
The month of April also has been a big part of Oakland's success story. The A's have gone 48-20 in April over the past three seasons. 

American Red Cross + 
B.P. Spring Fling 
1st Annual Breen-Phillips Euchre Tournament Sunday, April 14 11:00am-??? Signups Wednesday, AprillO-Dinner, SOH 
Thursday, Aprilll-Dinner, SOH Friday, April12-Lunch, NOH 
Cost: $5.00 per team, donation for Catholic Worker House 
Jlll ..........t....(•

Cash prize for 1st and 2nd 1::JO-]-15-8:45 
Df:nMlii'IG Youa llfl: (PC)

Limited space-sign up quick 1 ·1s. z:ao. a·As 
CLASS ACTION (R) 1:lQ. 7:00. 11:30 
s 
L 
A 
M 


....
OPEN VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 
ONE NIGHT TOURNEY FRIDAY APRIL 12 7:00-10:00PM BRING A TEAM OR MEET PARTNERS THERE TRIPLES SIX-ON-SIX 
JACC FIELDHOUSE NO ADVANCE REGISTRATION NECESSARY 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, April 10, 1991 
Tony Barone leaves Creighton to coach Texas A&M Creighton to begin search Barone becomes 4th coach in 2 years 
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) Creighton University athletic director Dick Myers said Tuesday that the Bluejays will begin immediately to find a new basketball coach to replace Tony Barone, who resigned to take the job at Texas A&M. 
"I would like to have this thing resolved by the end of the week if we could," Myers said, hinting that he favored naming a new coach from Barone as­sistants Dick Fick and Rick Johnson. 
"We have two viable candi­dates here in Dick Fick and Rick Johnson and both have expressed an interest in the job. That doesn't eliminate an out­side search, however, and we are looking into the legal rami­fications that we would be re­quired to conduct an outside search," Myers said. 
"If you have a program that is doing well and Tony left for the right reasons, it makes sense to try to maintain continuity in the program if possible," Myers said. "My preference would be to stay internal if I feel we have qualified candidates and I think we do." 
Myers confirmed late Tuesday morning that Barone resigned to take the A&M job in College Station, Texas. 
"It is both a sad and happy day for Creighton University," Myers said. "Obviously, we are saddened that we are losing not just a great basketball coach but a tremendous human being in Tony Barone. We are happy for Tony and his family because it is a gre-at opportunity at Texas A&M." 
"The business that I'm in is not as logical or as consistent as one would like it to be," Barone said in a news release issued by Creighton. "The rea­son for me accepting the posi­tion at A&M is based on two things: Number one, it's time for me to leave. After six years it's just time to go and I can't give you a list of reasons as to why. Number two, this is a tremendous opportunity and you don't get many of them. I think A&M is one of the last 'sleeping giants' in intercolle­giate athletics." 
Fick said he wanted to be the Bluejays' next head basketball coach if Barone left. 
"If Tony is gone, obviously I'm very interested in the job," Fick said. "We've got great kids here. I've recruited most of them, and I would love to coach them." 
Fick, a graduate of Lewis (Ill.) University, has been Barone's top assistant in his six years at CU. Johnson, a Kearney State graduate, also has been on the Bluejay staff for six years, the last two as a full-time assistant. 
The Bluejays this past season won their second Missouri Valley Conference champi­onship and qualified for the NCAA tournament for a second time in three years. 
In his six seasons, Barone led Creighton to a 102-82 record, three straight 20-win seasons, two MVC regular season titles (1989 and 1991) and two MVC post-season tournament cham­pionships (1989 and 1991). The Bluejays played in the NCAA tournament in 1989 and 1991, and in the National Invitation Tournament in 1990. 
The 1990-91 team finished 24-8, setting a school record for wins in a season. 
"Creighton University has been the most enjoyable experi­ence in my coaching career," Barone said in the news re­lease. "For the last six years I've been fortunate to coach some of the finest young men I've ever been associated with." 
"He has made some tremen­dous strides with our basketball program over the last six years," Myers said. "He promised to bring the program to a 'Cadillac' level and he cer­tainly has done that." 
"We've made a lot of strides in the program and the way the kids come across in the com­munity," Fick said. 
Fick said Creighton signed four players to national letters of intent last November -Mike Amos, 6-foot-10 center, Min­netonka, Minn.; Jason Bey, 6-2 guard, Chicago; Neal Fitzger­ald, 6-5 forward, Naperville, Ill.; and Joel Frakes, 6-foot guard, Stevenson, Mich. 
"It's very important that we take care of the kids who are here and the kids we've signed," Fick said. 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) -Tony Barone, pledging to guide the program toward national prominence, became Texas A&M's fourth head basketball coach in the past two seasons on Tuesday. 
"There are very, very few sleeping giants in this business and I don't think there's any question ... that this basketball job is a sleeping giant," said Barone, who led Creighton to three consecutive post-season appearances and 20-win sea­sons. 
Barone, 44, said the next level for the A&M program was to be among the top 25 teams in the nation. 
"I know you're going to jump on that as a statement, but I firmly believe that the potential of this club is in that particular realm," said Barone, who was given a five-year contract. 
Barone replaces Kermit Davis Jr., who led the Aggies to an 8­21 record in one season as head coach. Longtime coach Shelby Metcalf was dismissed during the 1989-90 season and replaced by assistant John Thornton. 
Davis, considered a young coach on the rise after a sue­

cessful stint at Idaho, replaced Thornton, but was forced to resign last month after a 3­month internal investigation uncovered eight NCAA rules violations. 
Barone said he would have no comment on the program's recent history. 
"If you would just indulge me I'd like to look to the future," Barone said. "The past is one of those things I have no opinions about. I have no knowledge of anything that went on here. That's good for me." 
Barone was the only one of five candidates interviewed by athletic director John David Crow. 
Barone said he felt no added scrutiny about the possibility of an NCAA probation over the violations. 
"The NCAA rules are set up and there are no shading of the rules so I don't see that as any extra scrutiny," he said. "I do a real good job with things I can control. I do a really poor job with things I can't control. What we need to do is move on." 
Barone said he was familiar with some of the coaches in the Southwest Conference, including Texas' Tom Penders, Houston's Pat Foster and Rice's Scott Thompson. 

''I've had a relationship with Tom Penders in the past and I'm sure it will get worse as time goes by," he said. 
The Aggies ended last season with nine scholarship players from Davis' program. Three non-scholarship players round­ed out the roster. 
Barone said he would con­centrate on bringing in players who would compete both in the classroom and on the court. 
"I don't think it's unusual to expect your kids to go to class and be competitive in the classroom," Barone said. "I have a blueprint and I hope the blueprint is a good one and we're going to use it here at TexasA&M." 
The Aggies 8-21 season this year was only the third 20-loss season in the 79-year history of the program and the first since 1955. Under Metcalf the Aggies won six Southwest Conference titles in 27 seasons. 
Texas A&M is scheduled to build a new $3 5 million, 14,500-seat arena in the next two years. 

Student Government Presents... 
A Public Forum On Contemporary Issues 
with 
Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy 
U.S. Department of Energy 
"Securing OurEnergy Future" 
Thursday, April11, 1991 7:00pm CCE Auditorium 
-
~TUDENT 
1011111111 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity ofseveral members ofthe Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
t
&!aAmerican Heart 
~Association 
Wednesday, April 10, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
• 
e r s eart tes fun runs are coming up April 11. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must bt~ in before five to guarantee next day printing. 

•The 
ND Martial Arts Institute will hold its annual Black belt tosting on Saturday, April 13, in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial starting at 1:00 pm. All are welcome to attend. 

•The 
Irish Guard will have an informational meeting April 11 at 4:30 in the lobby of LaFortune, for all interested in trying out. Anyone with questions should contact Chris Woods at 283-1606. 

•The 
ND Cricket Club defeated the India Association 70-40 in its first match of the season. Thanks to all who participated and eame to wateh. 


•ND/SMC Sailing Club: There will be practice everyday at 
3:00 prn. For more information, call Erie Bremer at 288-9359. 
•Irish 
Insanity will meet at 7 pm tonight in the Dooley Room for a brief meeting. All are welcome.] 

•Coach 
Lou Holtz will be hosting a sports trivia competition between Alumni and Dillon tonight at 8:00 pm in room 226 of the Cornputnr Math Building. Donations to St. Joseph County Special Olympics will be taken at the door. All students, staff, and faculty arn invited to attend. 


+American Red Cross 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP) There were echoes of St. Andrews in 1984 as Tom Watson and Seve Ballesteros sat side by side at the Augusta National Golf Club course. 
''I'm playing well enough to win," Watson said after a practice round for the 55th Masters. 
"I feel good about my game, good about the week, good about my chances," Ballesteros said Tuesday with more than a touch of his old, long-missing confidence. 
"I do not care about finishing second or third or fifth, like has been happening to me the last five or six years," Ballesteros said. 
"I have a feeling my time must come soon." 
The optimistic statements from both players were unso­licited and, in view of their recent performances, some­thing of a surprise. 
Each has been in a slump, Watson one of epic proportions and Ballesteros in a something milder low. 
But each was sounding, and acting, very much as they did seven years ago when they hooked up in a stretch duel on the Old Course at St. Andrews, 
Watson and Ballesteros ready 
when Ballesteros denied Watson's bid for a third consecutive British Open title. 
This time it is Nick Faldo of England who is going for three in a row, an unprecedented third consecutive Masters title. 
And the tall Englishman with the elegant, repeating stroke is on Watson's short list of those likely to succeed on the difficult, undulating greens of Augusta National. 
"You have to go with the players who are playing well at the moment," Watson said, looking ahead to the Thursday start of the first of the year's four major championships. 
"(Ian) Woosnam is playing very well," Watson said. 
"Seve is swinging well again. 
"Faldo is playing well. 
"Greg Norman, he's about ready to do well here. They've been writing him ofT. When that happens, good players tend to come back strong. 
"And that's my short list," Watson said. 
With the exception of himself, all are foreign-born: Ballesteros from Spain, Woosnam from Wales, Faldo from England, Norman from Australia. 
Pressed for some American choices, Watson added: "(Paul) Azinger, Rocco Mediate both are playing awfully well. 
"And," he said, "there's Old Folks, Jack (Nicklaus). He won at 46. He can win again. Jack's playing well. 
"And the thing about him is that he doesn't make many mistakes." 
Ballesteros, winner of two Masters and three British Opens but in a mild decline for the past couple of years, had a much shorter list. 
"Jose Maria Olazabal," Seve said of his fellow Spaniard. "He's the best player in the world." 
There was a long pause be­fore he continued. 
"It would be too bad for him to finish second after me," Ballesteros said, and shrugged. 
"It has been quite a long time since I have felt this good about my game, about my mood, about my chances," he said. 
"My confidence is very high." 
So is Watson's. 
"I feel good about the year," he said. "I've only played two bad rounds all year, in Los Angeles and in the last round of the Players' Championship. 
But his putting, the five-time British Open winner admitted, remains questionable. 
''I'm OK on the long putts. The short ones, well, I still have some trouble. I tend to freeze over them sometimes," said Watson, who won this title in 1977 and 1981. 
"I think I can beat it," he said. "It's a matter of being in competition and putting it to the test." 
Watson, who won his last major title in 1983 and nothing at all since 1987, has shown hints he is on the rebound with a second-place finish at Phoenix, a top-1 0 at New Orleans, a spot among the contenders until the poor last round of the Players. 
"It's getting closer," he said. 
Fiji government makes next Monday holiday 
SUVA, Fiji (AP) -The gov­ernment of this South Pacific island nation declared next Monday a national holiday as a tribute to its rugby team. 
The Fiji rugby union team has won tournaments this season in Hong Kong, Scotland and Australia. It beat New Zealand in the final of the Hong Kong tournament last month. 
Minister for Information Hatu Inoke Kubuabola said Tuesday the international success of the sevens team deserved the tribute of a national holiday and an official program to commemorate the occasion. 
"The Hong Kong final was a spectacular victory for Fiji but was also a tremendous boost for our country's image," he said. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<IIATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM., 
~~ 
WillE FIGHTif\.G Fa< YOJRLIFE 
American Heart di~:A Association .,.,. 
This space provided as a public service. 


The 1991-1992 University of Notre Dame Student Government Board of Trustees Committee on Cultural Diversity is accepting applications for new members. Applications can be obtained in the Student Government Office(Sec.). Applications should be returned by April17, 1991 at 5:00pm. 
Any Questions Contact Joe Wilson, Chairperson(1991-1992) at X1686 
~~p:ag~e~18:_______________~~~~----~----~----~~~T~h~e_O~b~s_e_~_e_r______~~==~~~~~~~~~~W=e~d=n=e=sd=a~y~,A=p~r=il=1=0=,1=9~93 
Boxer in Florida 
dies after debut as professional 
OCALA, Fla. (AP) -A boxer who collapsed after losing his professional debut died Tues­day -the first fight fatality under the jurisdiction of the Florida State Athletic Com­mission. 
Alan Lonnie Goldstein, 26, had been in critical condition since undergoing more than three hours of brain surgery at Munroe Regional Medical Center soon after the fight Sunday. 
Bill Mansfield, the hospital's director of public relations, said Goldstein died of brain damage apparently inflicted during the fight. Doctors said the boxer suffered massive bleeding. .. Don Hazelton, executive di­rector of the state commission, said the blow that caused Goldstein's death couldn't be pinpointed. 
"Six months ago, six years ago, the first punch of the fight, the last punch of the fight -we have no idea," Hazelton said from his office in Tallahassee. 
Goldstein, a middleweight who had recently moved to Miami from Indianapolis, fought 36 amateur fights. His pay for Sunday's four-round bout was $200. 
Hazelton said the commission will await findings from the Marion County medical ex­aminer. He said the death was Florida's first in professional boxing since the commission was founded in 1984. 
Goldstein's manager for the past two months was Mike Dundee, a member of one of boxing's most famous families. Dundee said his fighter was in excellent shape going into the bout and appeared to be OK when it ended. 
"All he had was a slight bloody nose and the start of black eye," Dundee said. "When the guy upstairs rolls the dice, there's nothing I can do." 
Pitted against Richie Smith of Miami, who went into the fight with an 0-4 record, Goldstein began to tire in the second round and was knocked down twice, Hazelton said. Goldstein recovered to win the third round on each judge's card, then went down again late in the fourth round but quickly got back up as the fight ended. 
"What it was was two tired young kids at the end," Dundee said. 
"(Goldstein) came to the corner and he was standing up. I began to take his gloves off and he started to fall to the canvas. I couldn't get the stool under him because it was so unexpected. At that point he became comatose." 
The bout was part of a six­... fight card at the Ocala Hilton. Hazelton did not attend but said reports he received left him confident that the Goldstein-Smith bout was con­ducted properly. 
"It went textbook the way it's supposed to go," he said. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATION MEMORIAL PR([;RAM.,
-

High school maintenance man gets to live fantasy 
SANFORD, Fla. (AP) ­Fantasy collided with reality as high school maintenance man Randy Harvey bellowed "Saaaafe" in his first call as a major league umpire on open­ing day at Detroit's Tiger Stadium. 
Harvey normally is mowing a baseball field on a weekday afternoon, not making major­league calls on one. Harvey, 30, is a groundskeeper at Lake Mary High School when not calling high school and college baseball games. 
But on Monday, he got the thrill of a lifetime as the second base umpire for the Tigers-New York Yankees game, won by Detroit 6-4. 
Baseball had to turn to old­timers and college umpires as substitutes for the striking umps. An agreement was reached early Monday but it was too late to prevent substi" tutes from working most open­ing day games. 
"It's a day I'll never forget," said Harvey. He didn't have much time to be nervous. 
Yankee slugger Don Mattingly came sliding into second base on a steal attempt in the first inning, and Harvey unhesitatingly called him safe. Tiger shortstop Alan Trammell, taking the throw, jumped up, stared at the ump and said, "Great call." 

"It felt good on that first play with Trammell saying 'Great call,"' Harvey said. "Hey, he was letting me know I was doing my job. 
Trammell and Mattingly might have had second thoughts if they had known Harvey never attended umpire school. 
"Not only was I the only re­placement guy who never went to ump school, I'm the only black," Harvey said. 
He cited his experience in the defunct Senior Professional Baseball League for providing him an opportunity to work in the majors. 
"A couple of general man­agers wrote and praised my work," he said. 
The longtime dream was nearly quashed when the labor settlement was reached, but it came too late for the regular umpires to reach the ballparks. 
"He was about as excited as a boy can get when they told him he was going," said Oscar Merthie, 69, Harvey's grandfa­ther. 
Merthie and his wife, Lillie, who raised Harvey since he was 3 months old, shared the mo­ment. 
"Now he has done it all: Little League, high school, college, Senior League and pro ball," Oscar Merthie said. 
Retired American League umpire Bill Deegan, who worked the plate and headed Harvey's crew on Monday, said he "liked Randy the first time I saw him work. He had the size (6-foot, 235 pounds) and the voice. He doesn't show timidity. He could work in the bigs." 
For Harvey, getting back to reality will be difficult. 


is looking for people who are interested in being 
Day Editors 
for the 1991-92 school year. Must have at least one afternoon per week free. 
Contact Dannika Simpson at 
283-4624 or 239-7471 

I Italian Pasta 
"'All Homemade-100% Real Cheese"' Special 7 Course Dinner • Charcoal Chicken & Steak 
288-3320 Banquet Room 

15 MINUTES &N o4 CAMPUS 2610PRAIRIEAVE. 
BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FREE DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & NO 
SPECIAL  
LARGE 18" PIZZA  $12.00  TWOrTEMUMIT  
SMALL 12" PIZZA  $ 5.50  TWOITEMLLMJT  
OFFER EXPIRES6 .28 ·1991  

EARN $5500 THIS 
SUMMER 

RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS VALUABLE RESUME EXPERIENCE 
SOUTHWESTERN COMPANY INFORMATION MEETINGS 5:30 AND 7:30 O'SHAG ROOM 206 MONDAY, APRIL 8 
TUESDAY, APRIL 9 WEDNESDAY, APRILlO 
s:MC/N:D
............. 

:SUMM:ER :PROGRAMS: 
......................... 
:L:ONDON~ROM:E 
:~~y :~~~~ ~:~~ ~~ : :Jone :16-Jl.fl. :1:s:

............... Y ... . OP:ENINGS: AVAILABLE: 
For Information: Ca11 : :p:rofes ·or :A:.R~ :s1a:ck:
.........S................ . 
•••••••••••••••••• 0 ••• 
:~~4~44~9 H~f:fJ~:~): 
••••••••••••••• 0 ••••• 
~?~-:~?~~: (~~~~) 


Wednesday, April10, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


DON'T GET J)OIJN, &UYS. lvf WON Af£ IJ,
J.l£ LOST TillS ON£. LOOk oN THE 81(/fitiiT SIDE. LJ£ f'IF1DE IT TO THE SW££ r256,
!JIIJN' T WE" 

7 p.m. Film: "The Bicycle Thief." Annenberg Audito­rium. Snite Museum. 
9 p.m. Film: "Know Your Enemy: Japan." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
LECTURES 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "The Role of Women in Economic Development-West Africa," Sonia Patten. University of 
Minnesota.  Room 116. O'Shaughnessy.  Sponsored by  
gender studies.  
.4:30  P·~·  Lecture~  "Structure  of  Identity  and  

I>tiTerences m Carmen, Prof. Susan McClary, University of Minnesota. Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. 
4:30 p.m. College of Science's Annual Nieuwland Locture Series in Biological Sciences, "The Amazonian Hainforests: Past, Present and Future " Jean I~ang1mheim, professor, University of Califor~ia, Santa Cruz. Hoom 283, Galvin Life Science Building. Sponsored by biological sciences. 
, 7 P·~· ldea.s & Issues. Commission Lecture, "Secondary l~ducatwn,. Concern~ wtth lnnercity Schools," Jay Parker, ~ead of Lmcoln Institute.. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsornd by Student Umon Board. 
7:30 p.m. Year of Women Locture Series, Issues in the anthropology of gonder, "Gender issues in West Africa: Labor. Property and Development," Sonia Patten, anthropologist, University of Minnesota Medical School. Hoom 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Year of Women, gender studies program, anthropology, and Officll of the Provost. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Grilled Sole Cheese SUcks/Marinara SaucP 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
• 

MR. S\JBTLE\'1 DRI'IES HOME .A.I'\O'rnER. POl~\. 
\ 
"Well, this Is just going from bad to worse." 
JRY PRRKER .. EDUCRTIDn: DIVERSITY DR EXTREmism?.. LECTURE TOniGHT LIBRRBY RUDITDBIUm 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Chicken/Bean Tostada Blueberry Crepe Deli Bar 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
ACROSS 31 Mah-jongg pieces
1 Gray element 32 Famed opera 
s-dixit 
impresario9Hwys. 
34 Black bird 

13 Brazilian state 35 Actress Anna: 
14lowa 1873-1918

cooperative 15 Scion 
36 General Curtis 16 Fruit for a 
grouch? 37 Peel 18 Madras V.I.P. 38 Silkworm 19 Riot 39 Preserved 
20 Favorite 40 Inscribed pillar roosters? 
41 Chemical
22-bene 
compounds24 Roi's femme 43 Breathe25 Restaurant 45 The gentry 

order 28 Old-clothes 
47 Idler's opposite dealer 48 Dressers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

, ••n~d! 
~ ~~~::t±:..J.:.~ 
-=+'"'+=~.-. 
loioioiol.-...,;=+"4-=-~:,:..j.::::..j,;~~ ~":-+-:--+"'-~ 
.:.=+.:-+:::-F-1 -=+::+--+--'-' 
c::+::+-~ 


B'i nit. t:'I~ITf PI\T\1:.1-K£ 'I£ST£1> I~ 1-1£. I ~ER'tE~ DVB 1\1t.t. •MUD.' ~()J M~'I 
RISE. 
W©~~W ©W 1!00~ CUSHING AUDITORIUM APRIL 11 at 8 pm AND 10:30 pm S2 ADMISSION Sl POPCORN 

51 Show off 

55 Ballerina's jete 
56 Harsh jockey? 
58 Behind 

schedule 59 Best and Ferber 60 Russian river 61 Unoriginal 
person a2 Retreats 63 Midge 

DOWN 
1 Milk: Comb . form 2 Pale color 3 Biblical Syria 4 Ousted from a camp cot? 5 Brat's cousin a Feeler 7 Show cynicism a Type of wind 9 Horde 10 Indian pipe 27 Less risky 
smoker? 

11 Cramp 29 Infirm, in a way 12 Spanish Mmes. 30 Singer Simone 14"... so-­
31 Friend's word 
die": Shak. 
33 Bailed17 Eag I ewood 
36 Gave a glossy 21 Greeting in finish
Genoa 37 Boxing area in a
23 Bore prison?

25 Rows of rows 39 Baby's bed 
26 "Everyone repeat!"? 40 Trident 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
7:30Pm_ 
FREE 
42 Romeo or Juliet 50 East Indian 44 Last year's hemp frosh 
52 Yemeni seaport 46 Disintegrate 
53 Hindu god 
48 Cinders of comics 54 Part of Q.E.D. 
49 Lowest high tide 57 Flivver fuel 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each mmute). 
JAY HOSLER 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


----~ -­

-----~---~--~ -~--~~-­
Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, April1 0, 1991 
Men's golf finishes fifth in Indianapolis Tournament 
Mike O'Connell paces Irish with total score of 146 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
"The rest of the guys played Sports Writer well for eighteen holes but then caved in when the weather got 
The Notre Dame men's golf bad on Monday," said Thomas. team season might have turned the corner with its performance Both O'Connell and Thomas at the Indianapolis were vocal in their criticism of Intercollegiate Tournament at the condition of the Eagle Creek the Eagle Creek Golf Club, as Country Club. O'Connell they placed fifth overall in a complained of the bare fair­field of eighteen. ways, while Thomas did not 
mince words on his opinion of Toledo took the overall Mike O'Connell the course. championship with a two-day 
drives in the fairway," said
total of 7 44, besting the Irish "They ought to be ashamed of 
O'Connell.

total of 761. Tim Frazier, of themselves for allowing the 
Ball State fired two rounds of course to be in that shape," he 
"Mike O'Connell has made a
72 for a two-day total of 144 to said. "They (the greenskeepers) 
lot of progress during his time
take the individual title. showed a total lack of interest 
here at Notre Dame," said Irish in their jobs." 
coach George Thomas. "He justJunior Mike O'Connell paced 
keeps getting better. I hope
the Irish with a sparkling Overall, Thomas was pleased
when he comes back next year,
opening round of 71, which tied with the performance of his 
he'll have a chance at the
a career best, and a 7 5 in the team.
NCAA's."

second round for a total of 146, 
which tied him for fourth-place "We really needed this type of 
The remaining Irish scores
overall in the individual effort," stated Thomas. "We've 
were Paul Nolta (74-81=155),
standings. had to deal with a lot of bad
Joe Dennen (74-82=156), Mike 
weather lately, especially the 

Crisanti (79-74=153), Chris
'Tve been working on my ball rain and cold at the Johnny 
Dayton (75-79=154), and Jason
striking lately. I was hitting the Owens Invitational. So, this 
Johnsrud (70-79=158). 

driver solidly and putting my performance was really a lift." 
lvanovich leads Equestrian team; heading to Nationals 
ByGREGWACH Ivanovich will be representing Ivanovich qualified for the Northwestern, Iowa State, and Dame represented the team in Sports Writer the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's nationals at a regional champi­Depauw. the Hunt Seat (Walk Trot). College Equestrian Team at the onship for Region XII, a division At the regional championship For the 1990-91 season the 
On the weekend of Mav 4th, Intercollegiate Horse Show which includes teams from Ivanovich competed in the Stock ND/SMC equestrian team fin­as the rest of the campus is Association (IHSA) national sixteen midwestern universities, Seat (Western style riding -ished 8th in its region for the preparing for exams, Notre championship at Hollings Col­including, among others, Ball Beginning Stock Seat) category Hunt Seat competition and 7th Dame sophomore Eric lege in Roanoke, Virginia. State, Purdue, Illinois, Indiana, and was joined by two in Stock Seat. The team first 
teammates. Angela Cutrona of began competition in the IHSA Saint Mary's College competed in 1987, and this year was able in the Hunt Seat (English style to host a show at Culver riding -Novice Flat) category, Military Academy near South and Larissa Wenning of Notre Bend. 
Rocket visits with Toronto 
TORONTO (AP) -Two days John Candy purchased the after Rocket Roger Clemens Argos from Harry Ornest, has spoiled baseball's opening day reportedly offered Ismail a two­for the Toronto Blue Jays, year, $6 million contract. Last Raghib "Rocket" Ismail will get year, the first pick in the NFL the grand tour from the new draft, quarterback Jeff George owners of the CFL's Toronto of the Indianapolis Colts, signed Argos. a six-year, $15 million contract 
.. which included a $3.5 million Ismail, the All-American kick signing bonus. returner-reciever from Notre Dame who is projected as a possible first overall pick in the Any deal between McNall and NFL draft April 21-22, will meet Ismail would have to be a per­with representatives of Argos sonal services contract and not owner Bruce McNall on a deal between the player and Wednesday and Thursday and the team, so as to circumvent take in a Blue Jays game during the CFL's $3 million a team a two-day visit. salary cap. 
Other CFL stars, notably 

"He hasn't been to Toronto quarterback Doug Flutie of the before and we're at a point now British Columbia Lions, operate where he's interested in seeing under such contracts. the city and the SkyDome," said Sue Waks, vice-chairman and Officials of McNall's group chief financial officer of McNall were back in Toronto on Sports and Entertainment. Monday, just as the paperwork 
on the sale was making its way 

"He'll be talking to some to Carling-O'Keefe Breweries, people here and seeing the which retained a 10 percent Dome when something's going stake in the team when it was on," Waks said. sold to Ornest in 1988. The 
brewery has a 30-day right of 

The pursuit of Ismail by the first refusal on the sale but Argos began in earnest late last Waks expects it to be waived. week during a meeting between McNall representatives and Ismail's agents. "We haven't spoken to 
Carling's (Monday) but I expect 

Right on target 
McNall, who along with hockey we'll be hearing from them 
Bookstore Basketball continued yesterday. See pullout in today's Observer. 
star Wayne Gretzky and actor soon," Waks said. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 








