/ 



~~.~ 
Se~~er -Q&·
~ Y 1 SaintMares eoHeg~
NOTRE OAME•INOIANA 

WEDNESDAY , OCTOBER 2, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
VOL. XXIV NO. 28 
First-time meeting: ND to host US and African reps 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN Azanian People's Organization. Ambassador to South Africa Africa for the past 15 years. after a new constitution is 
News Writer The 10-person ANC delega­Herman Nickel and Rep. ' The idea for the conference established. 
tion will bn led by its director of Maxine Waters (D-Cal.), a originated during meetings The ANC at this time main­
In a historical first-time con­international affairs, Thabo leader of the Congressional Williams attended during his tains its long-standing poliq 
ference to be held next week at Mbeki, and will include trea­Black Caucus will also attend. latest visit to South Africa last against economic engagement 
tlw University of Notre Dame, surer general Thomas Mkobi, The ANC asked Father Oliver March. in South Africa until a new gov­
offieials of the African National department of economic plan­Williams, associate provost and "The problems in South Africa ernment is in place, but the or­
Congn~ss (ANC) will tneet U.S. ning official Trevor Manual, and business ethics scholar, to or­are not ideologieal...they come ganization and its allies are be­
government representatives Penwell Manduna, member of ganize the conference. George from the fact that the young ginning to formulate ap­
and executives from more than the ANC's constitutional Schroll, South African consul­people do not have jobs," proaches for new investments 
40 major U.S. corporations to committee. tant for Colgate-Palmolive, is Williams added. in a post-apartheid nation, said 
discuss a policy for investment Hepresenting the U.S. gov­co-chair of the organization Williams stated that political Denny Moore, director of Notre 
in post-aparthnid South Africa. ernment will be assistant secre­committee for the conference rights are currently within Dame's office of Public Hela­
Over tlw WP.ekend. the ANC tary of state for African affairs, with Williams. grasp of the South African tions and Information. 
notified Notre Dame that it in­Herman Cohen; Kevin Callwood, "South Africa is a tremendous people and that it is possible Given what the ANC believes 
vited reprnst~ntatives of long­vice president of the Overseas place for investment, but that within the next two years to be the unjust legacy of past 
time political rival. Inkatha, to Private Investment Corporation; corporations fear South Africa they will have a new constitu­economic activity in South 
join the confemnct~. along with and Emily Solomon, Commerce because of its political instabil­tion for their government. The Africa, the Notre Dame meeting 
representatives of the Pan­department desk officer for ity," said Williams, who lias focus of the South African is designed to explore policies 
Africanist Congress and the South Africa. Former U.S. followed the situation in South leadership is what will happen 
see AFRICA I page 4 

Forum focuses Malloy's faculty address on off-campus 
reflects on past and future 
crime problems 
By CHRISTOPHER HANIFIN University was again able to 
By PAUL PEARSON News Writer maintain a balanced budget last 
Assistant News Editor year, through "prudent 
Heflection on the University's stewardship of the budget ad­
OfT-campus crinw is a man­past, and hope for the future ministration." 
agnahlt> prohlt>m in this com­dominated University President Particularly successful was 
munity, South Bt>nd Mayor Joe Father Edward Malloy's annual the "Strategic Moment" cam­
Kt>rnan said at a studnnt gov­faculty address yesterday. paign which raised in excess of 
Prnmt>nt forum Ttwsday. "We gather in the midst of $450 million, according to Mal­
Tlw forum fnaturt>d Kernan; our celebration to refleet on the loy. The monetary suceess of 
Bill Kirk. assistant vice presi­history of Notre Dame," he said. the athletic program, especially 
dt>nt for Ht>sidnnr«> Lifn; Hex "The activity around us the NBC contract, also con­
Hakow, din~rtor of Notre Dame provides the opportunity to re­tributed to the University's fi­
Sncurity; and Larry Bennett, flect on our collective past and nancial success last year. 
rhinf of thP Uniform Division of to look forward to future op­"The NBC contract makes us 
tlw South Bend Poliell. portunities." a stronger institution due to our 
Knrrutn said that tht> South Malloy characterized the targeted use of the monies," he 
Bend Polkn is working hard to foundation of the University as said. 
redurn rrinw in the northeast a trial of faith. "(Father) Sorin The University is "in better 
neighborhood of South Bend, took on a daunting task with financial health than the major­
whkh housns a largn amount of courage and convietion. His ity of our peer institutions," 
off-campus students. "The last persistenee was a sign of faith, said Malloy. lie vowed that 
thing we want to see is addi­of belief in God's blessings," Notre Dame "will not aect~pt 
tional barriers put up," be­Malloy said yesterday in Wash­tradeoffs forced by economie 
twenn thn University and the ington Hall. conditions," such as stafT lay­community, lw said. Although he acknowledged ofTs and downsizing which havt~ 
Hakow said that the severity criticism of modern edueation, been commonplaee in other in­and numhnr of inddents involv­including lack of grants, gen­stitutions. ing students so far this yea,r is eral attitudes of intolerance •Academieally, the University 
lower than thosn last year at among students, and a lack of "has a long way to go in reeog­tlw same time. lin eredited this interest in teaching careers, nizing the importance of out­
to tht~ "t~xenllnnt" relationship Malloy said that today side funding," said Malloy. between ND Security and the "American higher education is Many of the physical im­South Btmd Police. unparalleled in education and provements to the University, 
BennPtt also eallt>d this rela­access." such as the Hesburgh Center tionship "outstanding." In his Malloy addressed several key for International Studies, the 23 years on the foree, he said, areas to Notre Dame's present Marie P. DeBartolo Center for them has never been a problem and future: Performing Arts, and changes
University President Father Edward Malloy gives his annual faculty
between the departments. •Beginning with finances, in the Computing Center, are
address yesterday. He reflected on Notre Dame's rich history and 
Malloy announced that the
presented his key hopes for the future. 
see CRIME I page 4 see MALLOY/ page 4 

Student government promotes service organizations 
Editor's note: This is the dining halls, Julie Bradley, Buckman hopes to get to all of A Humanitarian Week, in as­third of a three-part series Student Government Commis­Student the dorms before Christmas, sodation with the Notre Dame concerning issues student gov­sioner for Social coneerns and "Freshman women are most Sesquicentennial, will take 
ernment is addressing during United Way Student Campaign Government vulnerable to date-rape place in April. Julie Bradley the 1991-92 schoo( year. Chairperson said. Issues 1991 because they are most unsure said. "This will be a nationwide 
"The $5,000 goal is higher
By MEGAN JUNIUS of themselves. They are also in service project organized by the 
than in the past. We are hoping
News Writer Third in a three-part series unfamiliar surroundings. Alumni association . Every
dorm collections make up the 
Therefore, we want to conduct Notre Dame Club will sponsor a Student Government is serv­difference," Bradley said. the presentations as soon as service project," she said. 
Notre Dame security during the 
ing as a link bt~tween the stu­Along with the beginning of possible," she said. "Both Student Government
1991-92 school year; last year
dent community and social ser­the United Way Drive, Student and Student Union Board will
not one case was reported. "If
vice organizations by support­Government, in conjunction The date-rape pre~entations work together in order to eon­
people realize there is a prob­
ing several student soda! ser­with Campus Alliance Hape are not required to tie seen by duct on campus and dorm ser­
lem, they will report it," she
vices including conducting a Elimination (CAHE), has begun all freshmen as are Honor Code vice projects," she said.
said.

United Way fund drive on cam­date rape awareness presenta­and Alcohol Awareness presen­
The presentations are given
pus, inereasing awareness of tions in residence halls. tations. The presenters must Other. service projects con­
by four to six presenters. The
date-rape, and sponsoring a "We want people to be aware be invited by the dorm rectors, ducted by Student Government
presenters have been trained
that date rape does occur oh
sesquicentennial humanitarian Buckman said. in conjunction with the Center
by Sex OITense Services, a rape
week. the Notre Dame campus," "Last year a few men's dorms for Social Concerns are Christ­
serviee in South Bend,
Sheila Buckman, Student Gov­
The United Way fund drive, did not conduct the presenta­mas in April. a lecture series,
Buckman said. There are both
sponsored by Student Govern­ernment Commissioner for tions. We are hoping for a 100 and a World Hunger Organiza­
male and female presenters.
ment and Hall Presidents eoun­Women's Concerns said. percent response this year," she tion Seminar, Bradley stated. 
During the presentations,
dl began on Oct. 1 and will con­According to Buckman, also said. "We will also be sponsoring a
students watch a video tape
tinue through Oct. 11. Hepre­Co-chair for the Notre Dame Student Government is also lecture series with the CPC on
and then discuss potential
sentatives will be taking collec­chapter of CAHE, two cases of encouraging more dorm service homosexuality, sexuality and
problems and solutions, she
tions throughout the dorms and date rape have been reported to projects. racism," Bradley said. 
said. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Chauvinism 
rears its ugly 
head in the gym 
My best friend is going to college in California on a football scholarship. He works out every day. And he has no body fat. 

When I asked Michael's advice on how I could start to get myself in shape he leaned forward and said in his patronizing way, "Woman; don't worry your silly little head about such male business. Go fix------­my dinner." 
Seriously, I want to get pumped up. 
"Okay, go invest in a pair of Q-Tips and start with your basic curl. All right-l'll be serious. First you need to find a gym. Not one of those manicured 'fitness centers' where the geriatrics huff and puff on that pressurized junk. A real gym." 
Like the kind where the spandex queens reign and men who look like marshmallows on toothpicks gawk at themselves in those full-length mirrors? 
"Naw. That kind just doesn't do it either. What you need to do is find a real hole-in-the­wall with no air conditioning, bad lighting, and no water fountains. Go to the smelliest, sleeziest, rankest gym that doesn't sell T­shirts that proclaim 'Body By Buffy. '" 
I have one of those shirts. 

"Exactly. And look at you. Serious body­builders don't work out at places like that. Those pseudo-studs fog up the mirrors too much. They're too busy admiring their re­flections and the tight-bunned redhead in the next machine." 
So I need to scout out a place not unlike the meat processing plant where Rocky got his start. 
"Right." I wouldn't even have to shave or shower be­fore I work out. 
"The women who lift in places like that are really ripped and hardly look female any­more. Personally, I find that unattractive." 
I guess that is kind of unfeminine. But I do want to get in shape, and be taken seriously. 
"Anna, that just isn't going to happen. If you join a club with the sauna, co-ed hot tub, aerobics classes, and stationary bikes, people are going to think you're there to show off and scam. Women have to look good for the men when they work out there and no one is supposed to look good when they work out." 
Then I'll take my chances and go to a 'real' gym. 
"They'll laugh you out of there. And besides, you don't have the time to devote to the art of bodybuilding. You have to do it every day. Just ask any of your puffed-up friends that visit GNC more than the john." 
But I just want a few cuts, nothing too dramatic. 
"It would take you months to see any results at all and women just don't have the patience it takes to get there. Besides, I already told you the rare ones who spend all their time pumping iron aren't attractive. Real gyms just aren't a woman's place." 
Okay, Mr. Expert, where is a woman's place? 
"In the kitchen and in the bedroom." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 
Sports Jennifer Marten  Photos David Lee  
News Meredith McCullough Alicia Reale  Production Lisa Bourdon Krisitin Lynch  
Scoreboard Anthony King Accent Meredith McCullough Paige Smoron Patrick Moran  Artwork Erik Christiansen Systems Pat Barth Mike Murphy Cesar Capella  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

AIDS increasing dramatically 
• CHICAGO -The AIDS virus appears to be spreading quickly among poor teen-agers, particularly dropouts, and is reaching especially alarming levels among girls, studies show. Experts say they have detected a dramatic increase in the level of infection among teen-agers over the past year or two. One study in Washington found that over 1 percent of the city's adolescents are now infected, and the disease appears to be spreading through heterosexual encounters in these youngsters. Blood from more than 11,000 youngsters has been tested. The infection rate grew from 0.4 percent in 1987 to 1.3 percent now. "We may be facing a heterosexual epidemic," experts say. It appears that teen-age boys in Washington are catching the virus from sex with girls and then infecting other girls, who pass it on again. 

Stanford celebrates its Centennial 
• STANFORD, Calif.-Beleaguered Stanford University ended its 100th year with a splashy stadium show that combined entertainment with history. Master of ceremonies Ted Koppel and school President Donald Kennedy told the crowd of about 30,000 that Stanford will overcome its problems in its second century. Kennedy has announced he will resign next year due to a research billing scandal at Stanford. Singer Bobby 


OF INTEREST 

• 
Dirty books sale will be held from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the concourse of Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Apple computer will present an ali-day session on Media Integration today in the Main Conference Room of the Computing Center/Math Building today. All students, faculty and staff are invited 

• 
Seniors interested in attending graduate school can attend a workshop given to answer questions about applying to graduate school. It will be held at 4 p.m. to­day Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 


• The English major's society will meet tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Dooley room of LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 


FORECAST: 
Party cloudy and warmer today with a chance of showers. Highs in upper 70s. Cloudy and cooler Thursday. Highs in the upper 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
Athens  91  68  
Atlanta  78  60  
Berlin  63  45  
Boston  72  47  
Chicago  73  46  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  85  62  
Denver  81  49  
Detroh  71  58  
Honolulu  90  75  
Houston  87  66  
Indianapolis  85  52  
London  63  53  
Los Angeles  99  71  
Madrid  68  46  
Mlam Beach  85  74  
Moscow  57  41  
New Orleans  82  72  
New York  74  54  
Paris  64  48  
Philadelphia  78  49  
Rome  82  64  
St. Louis  84  59  
San FranciSco  72  56  
Seanle  74  46  
South Bend  7 5  54  
Tokyo  66  63  
Washington. D.C  71  60  

McFerrin and Whoopi Goldberg were among celebrities who kept the two-hour show from dragging. Over 10,000 seats were empty despite discounts on tickets. The show culminated four days of centennial parties, parades and visits from politicians. During the past year, the school has been beset with problems, including a federal investigation into alleged overbilling of up to $200 million for research-related costs during the 1980s.Stanford University, which has denied wrongdoing, has paid back approximately $1.35 million for inappropriate bills. 
CAMPUS NO student wins sales award 
• 
sOOTH BEND -Scott Dennis, a chemical engi­neering major at Notre Dame, was awarded a $600 scholarship by Vector Marketing Corporation for sales achievements while working for the Kansas City, Missouri office. Dennis, the second Notre Dame student to win the award in the last two years, competed with thousands of students nationally, selling over $30,000 worth of merchandise over a three-month period. Vector exclusively markets Cutco-brand cutlery on a direct sale basis. 

• 
Health organizations' representatives will participate in Nursing Career Day '91 in LeMans Hall lobby from 3:30-5:30 today. Representatives will discuss summer and full-time job opportunities. 

• 
A post graduate fair will be held tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 7-10 p.m. Over 40 service groups will be there to talk to all those interested in vol­unteering after graduation. Seniors and all interested undergrads are encouraged to attend. 

• 
The public is invited to meet the candidates for Mishawaka City Offices on Wednesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Chambers of the Mishawaka City Council, located on the corner of Third and Cedar. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 1780: British spy John Andre was hanged in Tappan, 
N.Y. 

•In 
1919: President Wilson suffered a stroke that left him partially paralyzed. 

•In 
1941: German armies began Operation Typhoon -an all-out drive against Moscow. 

•In 
1959: The television program "The Twilight Zone" made its debut on CBS. 

•In 
1967: Thurgood Marshall was sworn in as an associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court-the first black so aJ1pointed.

•In 
1985: Actor Rock Hudson died at his Beverly Hills, Calif., home at age 59 after battling the deadly disease AIDS. 

•Ten 
years ago: U.S. Representative Michael "Ozzie" Myers, D-Pa., convicted of accepting a bribe in the FBI's ABSCAM sting operation, was expelled from the House, becoming the first congressman ousted by his colleagues since the outbreak of the Civil War. 



Miller details 'hustling' 

lJpcoming Events 
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 2 SIR KENNETH BLOOMFIELD 
Former head, N. Ireland Civil Service 
Panel: "NORTHERN IRELAND: THE LAST TWENTY YEARS & A LOOK INTO THE FUTURE" Discussants: JAY DOLAN IHietoryl & PAUL GARGAN llobund lnetitutel 
4:00 p.m. -Hesburgh Ctr. Aud. 
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 3 DAVID B. CORTRIGHT "PEACE WORKS: PEACE MOVEMENT IMPACT DURING THE 1980s" (Session II) 12:15-Conference Room 103 Hesburgh Center for Inti. Studies 
FRIDAY. OCTOBER 4 GEORGE A. LOPEZ "THINKING ABOUT A GRAD SCHOOL IN PEACE STUDIES OR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS" 
3:30 -Conference Room 103 Hesburgh Center for Inti. Studies 
INSTITUTE FOR 
Ill INTERNATIONAL 






I IIIII~~£~o~J;!~:~ 

CHIMES SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE THE AVENUE 
St. Mary·s Literary 
SOCCER St. Mary·s Student Magazine
Magazine is accepting 
vs 
is currently accepting editorials
sullmi ssi ons from the 
SMC/ND/South Bend UNIVERSITY OF and commentaries 
Community for the November issue 
Bring works to WISCONSIN Please submit work to
4p.m_ 
Madeleva 309
Madeleva 303 
Friday By October 4
Fall deadline 
Oct. 4
Nov_ 15 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Elinor Miller, profesor qf sociology and women's studies at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, gives a lecture titled "Hustling: The Work of Underclas Minority Women," Tuesday evening at Saint Mary's. 
Please Recycle Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. Thank You. 

SINCE 1949 

Grill Brlndl, Grill S.vlce, Grat Prlca, R.atlll 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 

Mon  -Thur  
Elkhart  11-7 pm  
Frl11-6 pm  
220 W. Ma.rion  Sat 1 0-4 pm  439 S. Michigan  

SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
Ih~Obseoler. 

The observer is currently taking applications for the 
PAID POSITION OF : 

TYPESETTER contact Mark Sloan @ 239-7471 
HPC discusses WVFI, SMC, and Weekend Wheels 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Stanford Hall Co-President 
Greg Butrus submitted a pro­
posal that the Hall Presidents 
Council (IIPC) throw its support 
behind WVFI 640 AM "in their 
efforts to become a FCC li­
censed FM broadcast radio sta­
tion." 
After spirited discussion, HPC 
Co-Chairman Charlie James 
elected to table a vote on the 
resolution until next week in 
order to let the presidents think 
about· it, and also to give the 
Student Senate a chance to act 
on it first. 
The proposal says in effect 
that WVFI is an asset to the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
communities, and that a move 
to FM "is a positive step for the 
University and deserves the full 
support of the Administration." 
Also at the meeting, Saint 
Mary's representative Adrienne 
Briggs announced that the Res­
idence Hall Association (RHA) 
will have their first meeting 
Oct. 2 at 8:30 p.m. in room 303 
Haggar. 
RHA is a new organization which will deal strictly with Saint Mary's residence halls and the issues affecting them. The agenda for their first meeting includes the possible restructuring of parietals, the smoking policy, and room se­lections. The meeting is open forum and all Saint Mary's stu­dents are welcome to attend. 
Finally, the Council heard a report on Weekend Wheels' first two days of operation. Ac­cording to James, 10-15 people rode the service on Friday night, and over 70 people rode on Saturday night. "Everyone at the Commons on Saturday night took Weekend Wheels back to campus at 3 a.m." 
James was undaunted by the comparative low numbers for the first weekend. Some of the reasons he gave were a lack of advertising in the bars, and the fact that there is nothing identifying the United Limo bus as Weekend Wheels. Both prob­lems should be rectified soon, however. "Once home football weekends start up again, we expect ridership to double." Weekend Wheels is a service sponsored fully by HPC in an effort to curb both drinking and driving, and the off-campus crime that results when students attempt to walk home from bars. 
The buses run every Friday and Saturday between 12 and 3 
a.m. The current route has the United Limo bus leaving Cam­pus View apartments every thirty minutes beginning at 12. The bus then goes to the Linebacker, Five Corners, Club 23, Lafayette Square, down ND Ave., and makes stops at the Main Circle and the Library Circle. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The rise of white women in the work force in the late 1960's led to an inemase in the number of unemployed under­elass black women turning to tlw streets and to the "hustling" of tlwir bodies as a source of ineonw, a1~cording to Professor Elinor Miller. 
Professor of soeiology and women's studies at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Miller prnsented this theory at tlw lecture titled"llustling: The Work of Underelass Minority Womnn." Tuesday evening at Saint Mary's College. 
Miller, who has done researeh in the field of "hustling," places a particular importance on the underdass minority population. She argues that white women who entPred the work force with higher erndnntials-namely a high sehool diploma-"depressed the marketability of black womnn." This "erowding" of thn work foree lnd to "inereases in unemployment and poverty among women of color," said Miller. 
As more blaek women turned to hustling, the crimn rate also rose. This corn~lation led Miller to her study of hustlers. She found that the increase was mainly in street crimes-larceny, embezzlement, fraud, and forgery. 
Interviewing 84 Milwaukee street hustlers, Miller found that the runaways that turned to hustling were equal in numbers of blacks and whites, and the drug abusers on the streets tended to be whites. The uneven proportion, according to Miller, occurs in the social structure and domestic network of underclass black Americans. 
Miller has written one book on her theory, "Street Woman," which was awarded the Ameri­can Sociological Association Criminology Section Distin­guished Scholar Award. Still, she feels that her research lacks depth. 
"The model works in Milwau­kee, and I believe it also applies to cities like Cleveland, Min­neapolis, Boston, and Cincin­nati, which are relatively the same in size and values." 
She said that she believes more research should be done in the area to determine how the model works in other cities, and to study the other factors such as the change from heroine to cocaine as the drug of choice in the United States. 
________j 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, October 2,1991 
SECURITY BEAT 

WBJESDAY,SEPt25 
3:30 a.m. A P.E. rel'!\dent repone receiving harassing phone cans on &It• urday, September 21. 
2:01 p.m. An off campus student repa,rted that he tost his parking decal> · 
11:15 p.m. A St. Edward's. Hall resident reported the vandalism of his bicycle on Sunday, September 22. 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 26 
12:00 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee OHtcer transported ari Injured University employee from Farley Hall to St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
1:20 a.m. A Grace Hall resident report~ 
being assaulted In the 0·:? student Pari<lnglot. ::cc•cc:ccc%WH+•... c. 
9:13 a.m. A Notre Dame Securlty/f'oll<:t OHicer reported a violation of Oolverslty Rules by the owner of a ~tehlcki park(IQ s,t the Fatima Retreat House. 2:00p.m. A Wilingsboro, 
Ne.W resident was cited by a No ourity/Police Officer for driving 25 MPH ~one. 
4:35 p.m. A lyons Hall resident the theft of her football tickets f.rom NOtre. Dame Stadium on Saturday, September 21, 
1991, c~#f+!l!i· •·.
t:30 p.m•. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee OHicer transported an injured Uplv$i'SlW employee from. South DininO H\'llttiHhe Sludeht Health Center. . i''ll!!i>>. 
10:35 p.m. A University emptc>yee. reported the theft of a trash can from Hayes ~aly Hall on September 25, 1991. · 
11:25 p..m. A Clearwater, Florida ~k!ant wa\1 cited by a Notre Dame Security/POllee OlftC$r tor driving 47 MPH in a 25 MPH zone and for driving with a s.~spended licence. 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 27 
12:15 a.m. A minor automobile accident occurred at the Architecture Building. 
4:45 a.m. A South Bend cab driver gave some items he found in his vehicle tc> a Notre Dame Security/Pollee Officer. The 
· Items were subsequently brought to the Notre Dame Security Building. 
11:00 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer confiscated an improper parking decal from an off campus student. 
3:30 p.m. A P. E. resident reported the theft of cash from her unattended jacket. 
5:22 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer transported a Keenan Hall resident from the Rockne Memorial Building to St. Joseph's Emergency Room after the viCtim complained of having chest pains. 
5:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer transported an injured Flanner Hall resident from Stepan Foolball Field to St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
5:59 p.m. A lost jacket was placed in the Lost & Found Department of the Notre Dame Security Building. It was. found at the Rockne Memorial. 
8:45 p.m. A Flanner resident reported damage to his parl<ed car In the 0·2 stu­dent parking lot. 
8:51 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated a sick faculty member at the University Club and assisted In her transport to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
11:53 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by a Notre Dame SE!curity/PoHce Officer for driving 52 MPH in a 30 MPH zone. 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 28 
12:19 a.m. A South Bend resident was oiled by a Notre Dame SecurityiPc>tlce Officer for driving 51 MPH in a 30 MPH 
~one. 

12:35 -_.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a false fire alarm at Flanner Hall. 
1:00 a.m. A South Bend, Indiana resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer for failure to wear his seatbelt. In addition, he was issued a speeding warning. 
1:12 a.m. A Champaign, Illinois resident was cited by a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer for failure to wear her seatbelt In addition, she was issued a speeding warning. 
1:30 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the vandalism of a window in his dormitory. 
1:34 a.m. A Scotsdale. Arizona resident was issued a speeding warning by a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer. 
1:45 a.m. A Schoolcraft, Michigan resident was issued a speeding warning by a Notre Dame Security/Police Officer. 
1:50 p.m. A NotrE! Dame Security/Police OHicer transported an Injured University employee from the Huddle to St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
2:15 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer transported an injured Alumni resident from the Student Health Center to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
4:47 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated an injured off campus student at Stepan FIEIId and later transported him to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
6:10 p.m. Notre Dame S~;~curlty/Pol\ce arrested a South Bend resident for pos­session of stolen property at Grace Hall. The suspect was later transported to the St. Joseph's County jail. 
7:41 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police Officer transported an injured Alumni resident from the Student Health Center to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
10:45 p.m. A Notre Dame Securily/f'otice Officer found a cassette player and brought It to the Notre Dame Security Building. 



Malloy. 
continued from page 1 
toward a stronger academic status. 
Malloy was also quick to note that Notre Dame continues to draw high quality recruits at all levels, despite limitations in fi­nancial resources. The Univer­sity clearly manifests its aca­demic success in its ability to retain a high percentage of students, he said. 
In addition, Malloy expressed his pride in the ability of Notre Dame graduates to successfully place themselves in the job market as well as post-gradu­ate education. 
Malloy characterized Notre 

Dame faculty as largely over­worked. There is a need for the faculty to address the issue of teaching versus research, and what lessons can be learned from other research universi­ties, he said. 
•There is a deep need for con­tinued thought about the spiri­tual development of the Notre Dame community, according to Malloy. 
"In my judgement, during the Sesquicentennial there is no more important area for reflec­tion than the Catholic character of this institution." he said. 
The University shows its commitment to faith through the large number of students who actively worship at Mass, take part in retreats, and in­volve themselves in social ser­vice projects, according to Mal­loy. 
However, the faculty also plays an important role in the spiritual development of the student body. Faculty must "assume special responsibility" in nurturing faith among the students, he said. 
The Congregation of the Holy Cross must play an important role in every phase of Notre Dame life as "a sign of the community's commitment to the well being of the University," Malloy explained. 
Notre Dame should become neither "Catholic in name only" nor "dedicated to antiquated morals," as some other Catholic schools have. 

•A number of issues which Malloy feels are being more successfully addressed now than in the past are cultural di­versity, environmental con­cerns, and off-campus crime. Malloy also expressed his hope that Notre Dame will enhance its appearance internationally. 
All of these issues are part of what Malloy calls "a challeng­ing reality" for the University. 
Malloy also announced the formation of a colloquy to "review present realities and identify the most appropriate steps for the University's fu­ture." The committee will focus on the major areas of University life, including academics, finances, student life. and the mission of Notre Dame. 
Africa 
continued from page 1 
Given what the ANC believes to be the unjust legacy of past economic activity in South Africa, the Notre Dame meeting is designed to explore policies that would redress this legacy, Moore said. 
The most successful outcome of the conference, according to Williams, will be that U.S. busi­nesses see South Africa to be a healthy climate for investment. 
The list of U.S. businesses sending representatives to the meeting includes AT&T, Bristol­Meyers-Squibb, Coca-Cola, Colgate-Palmolive, Ford Mo­tors, Kellogg, and Eli Lily. 
The conference will begin Sunday, October 6 and continue through Tuesday, October 8 at the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. The meetings are closed to the public. 


Crime 
continued from page 1 
Regarding another relation­ship-that between University students and the local commu­nity-Bennett said that, while the police do not want animos­ity, "It's a two-way street." 
Kernan said that police offi­cers do not go out looking for students to arrest. "There isn't a bounty on students. We have a responsibility to the people who pay our salaries to re­spond to complaints." 
While admitting that some of his officers are "a little short­tempered" at times, Bennett said that he deals with prob­lems when he knows they exist. "If I have an officer not re­sponding properly, I want to know about it. Unless I know about it, there's not a whole lot I can do." 
Kernan cited several drug prevention and housing pro­grams which he believes benefit both the students and the community. In particular, he praised the neighborhood watch program in the northeast community. "Our goal is to take that into every neighborhood in the city." Bennett agreed, saying "You'll find none stronger (in the city)." 

Kernan also praised the 
South Bend Police department 
for its efforts in clamping down 
on crime. "South Bend has the 
finest police department in In­
diana because of the quality of 
officers we have." 
However, Kernan said that ·the help the city is getting from 
Washington is "inadequate" for 
its needs. This year, South Bend 
received $3 million from the 
federal government, which is 
"less than has been available in 
the past." 
One of the keys to reducing 
off-campus crime, Kernan said, 
is making students aware that 
this community "isn't Disney­
land." Rakow agreed, saying 
that students venturing off­
campus "need to be careful 
about going into areas with 
which they're not familiar." 
Freshman Advisory Council Candidates­
You MUST HAVE YOUR POSTERS STAMPED AT STUDNET ACTIVITIES C3rd floor LaFortune) BEFORE POSTING!! 
-ELECTION COMMIITE 

St. MARY•s PHOTOGRAPHERS 
any students intersted in working as a photographer please contact Margarita Schropp x 284-4345 

ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB PROUDLY PRESENTS 






CLIFF ERICKSON 
SINGER/ENTERTAINER 
COME SEE NO'S FAVORITE PERFORMER 

~-­
Saint Mary's offers chance to sample career options 
By JOAN CATALANO 
News Writer 
Students will have the oppor­tunity to learn about career op­tions from representatives of over 60 corporations, non-profit organizations, governmental offices and graduate schools this week at Saint Mary's. 
According to Jeffrey Roberts, coordinator of placement ser­vices at Saint Mary's, the rep­resentatives will be on hand between 3 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. Thursday, October 3 in the lobby of LeMans llall. 
This event, called "Showcase of Careers '91 ," is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students free of charge, he said. 
"Come in, explore and dis­cover some new opportunities," said Roberts. "The showcase provides an excellent opportu­nity for students to begin or continue the career exploration and job search process." 
Students can obtain informa­tion on careers. graduate edu­cation, volunteer positions, in­ternships or full-time employ­ment, according to Roberts. In addition, "some of the organi­zations participating in the event will be accepting resumes from job seekers," he added. 
Among the more recognizable participants are the American Cancer Society, Snite Museum, Muskegon Heights and South Bend school districts, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. States Department, IBM and Holy Cross Associates. 
A number of SMC alumnae and several fathers of current Saint Mary's students will also be attending to represent their organizations, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and Sidley & Austin law firm. 
The event is sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­m~nt, the SMC senior and ju­nior boards, and the Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center. 

• 
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to a'isure quality. 


aC&B. I





'QtiCQOna 

SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA_  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  (1/2 MI. S. ot University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

·•• #',. f' 

The Observer page 5 
Prof recalls positive images of nursing 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
Professor JoAnn Widerquist expressed hope that she can ·leave a strong legacy of pride to her nursing students in a lecture at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium, Tuesday. 
Widerquist, chairperson and associate professor of the Saint Mary's department of Nursing, traced the significant figures in her life for an audience of both students and faculty in the sec­ond lecture in the "Life of the Mind" series. 
She related the images that these individuals formed in her mind to what she called the ba­sic values that form the integral part of the human con­sciousness: the body, mind, and spirit. 
Beginning with her earliest childhood memories, she re­called the skeptical, and even controversial family discussions that revolved around her grandfather's political support for socialism .. 
"I learned early the need to question, examine issues, and defend my position," Widerquist said. 
Independent thinking, even for Depression-age females, was a consistent element in Widerquist's early life. She said her personal interaction with an educated, career-oriented aunt and a "try it, you can do it," attitude encouraged her in her struggle for education. 
Widerquist added that com­pliments such as 'you think like a man,' which she heard during 
her education, proved her 
commitment and helped make 
her aware of the reality of the 
feminine struggle. 
During a slide presentation, Widerquist showed her audi­ence pictures of women who in­spired her to take up later struggles against unequal pay for female nurses and male en­vironmentalists. 
A broken wrist at the age of 15 took the Depression-age girl to the hospital for not only medical service, but a job. Hired immediately as a nurse's aid, Widerquist began a career that she said introduced her to some of the men and women who have contributed to her life. 
"Nursing as an art hadn't oc­curred to me" at that time, Widerquist explained. She said she began her aide's job hesi­tant and nauseous, but found herself responding to the job that demanded more than her best work. Nursing, she said, had become a calling. 
For a while, Widerquist said, her work in polio nursing forced her to ignore the indi­vidual person and concentrate strictly on healing the physical body, but the nuns she came in contact with taught her again to· channel her compassion for the hurting into more than simple healing. 
In her quest to serve the needs of the community around her, Widerquist said she hesi­tantly accepted a teaching posi­tion and again found herself overwhelmed by the personal 
=-­

response she had to the experi­
ence. 
"Teaching is more what we are than what we know," Widerquist said. In her calling to teach, Widerquist found her­self challenging the standard behavior of 1950's women by balancing both a career and family. 
According to Widerquist, it wasn't until she joined the fac­ulty at Saint Mary's that she found the profoundly spiritual aspects of nursing. She said her interaction with the young women of the college has helped her to realize that every year is the best year of one's life. 
She said trips with her hus­band to the Princeton Theologi­cal Seminary helped reinforce the healing and ultimate possi­bilities of faith. 
In this search for spirituality in her vocation, Widerquist took a sabbatical in London to study the writings of Florence Nightingale, whom she called a woman aware of "nursing, women, and women's work." 
This personal journey helped awaken in her a pride in the nursing heritage. She urged students to ignore the opposi­tion and degrading comments. "We need people with good minds in nursing very much," she noted. 
Widerquist said this glimpse into the mind of a woman should spark the minds of other women. "The quest for knowledge relies on the eye of the mind," she said. 
~ 


TOYOUR NlftlT~ ftnD TOTt1liRS 
To us, it's as easy as going to the faucet. To millions of children in the develop­ing world, it's a lifesaver. Over 3.5 million children die each year of diseases resulting from unclean water, but the Peace Corps is doing something about it. Volunteers are at work on 5 continents, educating developing communities about health and nutrition, building wells and sanita­tion systems, and helping to eradicate water-borne diseases that unnecessarily cause the deaths of millions. 
Your degree or experi­ence in nutrition, nursing, other allied health fields, or even construction can be put to use in Asia, Africa, the Pacific Islands, and Latin America. Join those who are person-by­person bettering the health of the world. And coming back with an edge on the competition for graduate school or a boost up the career ladder. Lend a hand. Share your heart. 

***** 
PFACECoRPS 
30 ~~!~Sf'mt 


Notre Dame Campus:  St. Mary's Campus:  
FREE FILM SEMINARS  INFORMATION TABLE  
Thurs., Oct. 3, 7:00p.m.  Thurs., Oct. 3, 8:30a.m. -·3:00p.m.  
Center for Social Change  ·  LeMans Hall  
INTERVIEWS  

Tues., & Wed., Oct. 8 & 9, Career Placement Office Notre Dame Campus Fri., Oct. 10, Morning only Counseling &Career Develop St. Mary's Campus. 
Call: 1-800-621-3670 ext. 107 
-

,.------­
-~­

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, October 2,1991 


Japanese culture topic of discussion at fireside chat 
By CHRISTl CORBETT News Writer 
The Japanese culture is obsessed with its own uniqueness, according to a professor speaking yesterday at a Multicultural Fall Festival fireside chat. 
"They want to see themselves as more unique than any other country," said Michael Brownstein, ND professor of Japanese. 
The similarities and differences between American and Japanese cultures are obstacles to understanding Japan, Brownstein said. Although Japanese cities look like American cities, for example, the differences within the cities are actually numerous. 
"Don't be too quick to judge, and try to look beneath the surface," said Brownstein in his discussion, "Understanding Japan." 
One obstruction to understanding Japan concerns stereotypes and misconceptions. The second obstacle is that Americans can only understand the Japanese through self­descriptions, which may not always be accurate for the entire country, he explained. 
Brownstein illustrated this by pointing to the Japanese reputation for politeness. This perceived politeness may only be a way of keeping distance from Americans, he said. 
The Japanese also have a reputation for placing great emphasis on the family. Because every culture puts some type of emphasis on the family, the Japanese are not unique for possessing this trait, he added. 
Brownstein answered general questions about Japan: 
•Regarding religion, Brownstein said that the "Japanese are all a little Shinto, a little Buddhist, and a little Confucian." 
Less than one percent of Japanese are Christian, he said. 
•Brownstein said that the Japanese use a Confucian approach to education. ''I'm not sure that Americans would put up with the educational system in Japan," he said. 
According to Brownstein, it's hard to get into college in Japan, but easy to graduate. 
•Economically, the Japanese can attribute their success to a group-oriented attitude. The idea of individualism has a negative connotation in Japan, according to Japanese professor Isamu Fukuchi. 
The Japanese are more group oriented, focusing on their company or their country. This non-individualistic attitude has helped Japan achieve great economic success, he said. 
•The idea that the Japanese cannot or will not tolerate failure is a myth, according to Brownstein. 
The stereotype of a Japanese person preferring death to dishonor has its roots in historical Samurai warriors killing themselves before allowing themselves to be taken prisoner. 
These warriors did this, Brownstein explained, because they considered the enemy to be beneath them, and if they were caught, the torture imposed by the captors would be far worse than killing oneself. 
The Japanese actually have as great a tolerance for failure as any other culture, he concluded. 
A COMBINATION THAT FITS TODAY'S STUDENT 
• 
ALL-IN-ONE! No wires to hook up 

• 
13-IN. SCREEN! Fits in small areas 

• 
25-function unified remote controls both the TV and VCR 

• 
On-screen programming by remote plus one touch recording 

• 
110 channels including cable 

• 
Audio/video input and output jacks for additional hook-ups 


499.99 
'Sales tax. delivery. or ins!OIIatlon nat Included In minimum monlhly payment shown. Your actual monlhly payment can vary depending on your account balance. 
TV size measured 
90891 
(Mrr. #CMS·R300CO) 

6501 GRAPE ROAD/US 23 (219) 271-6500 
SHARP TABLETOP STEREO. 
SONY MICROCASSETTE 5 DISC CD CAROUSEL 
PORTABLE RECORDER Remote. dual 
Auto recording 

29 99
349 99 
cassette, 3 • 
level, one • band equalizer 
touch record. 

Each of these advertised items are readily available for sale as advertised. 






Viewpoint 

Wednesday, October 2, 1991 Page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my support, and in hopes to sway otlwrs. for WVFI, the voice of Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's. I strongly feel that our studP.nt­run radio station is being un­ruly persecuted by the University-both by the Administration and by a major­ity of my pners. 
First of all. I am not an em­ployee of WVFI. therefore I am not spt~aking on their behalf or am I trying to ~~xprcss their own grinvancns. Secondly, due to my noninvolvPmnnt with thn station. I apologize for any wrongful assumptions or gen­nralizations that my ignorance allows me to makP. 
But I am familiar with the ob­vious commitment that WVFI has to thn Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Their thought-provoking program dtallt~ nges us to go bnyond ND/SMC -take life a step fur­tlwr -bt~ crazy. The assumed way to achieve this "nirvana" is through music. 
WVFI pn~senl'> a sampling of altnrnative music -challenging, pownrful music in an often too closed-minded society. The "Voice of ND/SMC" is an invaluable asset to our 
DOONESBURV 
community and is definitely worth the conversion ( to be fi­nanced by WVFI) to FM. 
Yes, WVFI has battled with the FCC, but that simply proves a valuable point. We, as college students, are in continual con­flict with those who attempt to suppress and control. We, "leaders of the future," need to take a stand on pertinent issues -one which WVFI is making against censorship. 
My stand on censorship is strong, but simple: Censorship is evil. But I'll leave that for another time. I'll leave you with this: 
"We are not afraid to entrust the American people with un­pleasant facts, foreign ideas, alien philosophies, and compet­itive values. For a nation that is afraid to let its people judge the truth and falsehood in an open market is a nation that is afraid of its people." 
John F. Kennedy (Feb. 26, 1962) 
Celebrate the Bill of Rights Bicentennial 1791-1991 Banned Books Week, and Cnlebrate the Freedom to Read September 28 -October 5, 1991 
Michael Zimmer Fisher Hall Sept. 30, 1991 

'Queers' are proud of rights movement 
Dear Editor: went through a long period of the slower-learning portions of 
Looking through the October proving to the world that they the community to join the issue of Common Sense, you'll are just as good, just as smart, twentieth century and notice an advertisement which strong and worthy as their recognize homosexuality as a boldly proclaims "Where The white counterparts. Many natural sexual variation, others Queers Are In '91." If the title asserted their validity through are beginning to reclaim gay of the ad shocks or startles you, "assimilationist" measures, culture and rebuild the gay self­then read on for a better trying to be as much like white esteem shattered by millennia understanding of what was people as they could to show of heterosexual oppression. meant by the cavalier language. they could make it. But things Some may still ask, "But the 
The enthusiastic adoption of have changed now. The black gays used to say that words like the word Queer by youthful gay community is reclaiming the 'queer' and 'dyke' were of­activists is a fairly recent de­heritage it mortgaged a gener­fensive -what's changed?" velopment in the long struggle ation ago. Actually, many things have. In for gay rights. Gays and les­Black students now proudly a post-modern society, context bians are taking this word, embrace their African roots, is everything. formerly an instrument of op­celebrating the rich history and If a redneck starts pression, and turning it around, culture of their people. This complaining about "those wearing it as a badge of pride. same heritage was set aside or Queers causing trouble again," 
The use of Queer as a blanket quietly remembered by their then of course, that's a term for "lesbian, gay, and parents twenty-five years ago. homophobic use of the word. bisexual people" represents a The women's movement has But when a hip straight person proud young direction for gays. experienced a similar progres­says, "There's nothing more fun In using the word as their own, sion. First -and second-phase than a Queer Halloween party," they are stripping it negative feminists spent the seventies then that's cool. Look at the meaning, much as their and eighties convincing them­rap group Niggers with predecessors proclaimed "gay" selves and their male counter­Attitudes (N.W.A.) if you need as their own more than a parts that they could survive, any further evidence of the im­generation ago. flourish, and triumph in a tra­portance of context. 
The gay community has done ditionally patriarchal world. You'll still see us referring to this before. The pink triangle, Now women are reclaiming ourselves as "gay, lesbian, and which is now the hallmark their femininity and there is a bisexual people" when that's symbol of the gay rights move­general re-appreciation of most appropriate. But when ment, was originally the patch things feminine. we're having fun and feeling that the Nazis forced gay men The gay liberation movement particularly proud, don't be to wear in World War II con­is following the same path. The surprised if we just call our­centration camps. battle in the trenches for base­selves Queer. 
To better understand our use level acceptance continues in Mike W. Miller of the word Queer, take a look many areas, but the gay com­Office of University Computing at the larger arena of identity munity is beginning to move in Sept. 28, 1991 politics. another direction. 
Much of the black community As activists continue to urge 


SO BA51CAUY, BOOPSI& 15 5AYIN6 5He eeu~vw 'trJU VlaATW HER. 7R!JST. 
I5 7HAT HOW YW 5eerr; B./?. :r 
I IAEU,NOT RCAU.Y... 
" 
I MeAN, I JUST THINK. 
7HtRb tvt:Rb f3)(Jl;N()ATING OR(JJM5TAJ.It:$. Tl-lf;:Fl3 tvA<3 A tf.IAR. ON, ANOtubtueRi3 ON TH/'3 We/1<0 CRI./1513
I 91/P... ~ 
7H& OAYWe BOARO~ Mi3G ANVI JUST RJUNO OUR5f3tJI!3G IN A Sf'TlJ4TION 7HAT N/3/lHt:R CF US HA£) 
PIANNWON/1 
/A/HAT 
SOI<TOF 
5/TUAT/ON? 
~ 
fAJf/Oi, A'3>W !<NOW, 
(}5(jiJJj;/ tbA/?5 
7D~X. 
I 

'Men are so inevitably mad that not to be mad would be to give a mad twist to madness.' 
Blaise Pascal 

We all have these thoughts. Submit: 
QUOTES, 1~0. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Page 8 Wednesday, October 2, 1991 
Sesquicentennial Symposium on O'Malley worth visiting 
We hear about morality, graduation, so in the early the fire at the end of my junior because "they are the only ethics, and Christian values as 1970's, he was one of only two 
year. gage for measuring the being part of a Notre Dame remaining professors who These became Maalox campus. They are not yet education from the first day lived among the students. moments for students who corrupted." we arrive on campus. Is it the You would think that many wanted to attain special O'Malley once said, "I "party line" or do these would be close to Frank. But permission (a small palm card receive freshmen papers qualities rub off on even the life around O'Malley was one that read "Thank you for which reveal underlying tones most resistant of us? of distance and mystery. His Voting Democratic") to enter of loneliness. Give me any 
From my experience as a existence seemed destined for his classes, which instantly freshman on this floor, and I'll resistant one, Notre Dame love and suffering. closed during registration . make him a better poet than moves in mysterious ways -in A chance encounter in the When Frank left his room, it anyone on the Juggler the dorms and classrooms, hallway usually developed into was not until noon for his one magazine staff." O'Malley within the alumni association, a humorous experience. We o'clock freshman seminar on could do that with what h~r even from the depths of the students would sit in the Capitol Comments Mondays. Other days he would said more than how he said it. community cemetery. · hallway along each wall and stay in the room until his four My last class at Notre Dame 
This weekend (Oct. 5 & 6). listen to him discuss politics, o'clock upper level course. was O'Malley's four o'clock the University hosts the first of religion, society, literature, or Occasionally he was seen in course on May 7th. Exactly
clicking from the soda 

sevetal Sesquicentennial anything that related to what the hallway emptying his trash one year later he passed away. 
machine in the basement 

Symposiums by honoring the· he called "the work." We, "the before the trek across campus Something compelled me to jot 
stairwell. It was Frank trying

"Mr. Chips" of Notre Dame his­friends of the work," always to his class. down his final words to us:
to coax the machine to take a 

tory. Francis J. O'Malley. came away from those The maid seldom entered his 
nickel. What was the problem

You might think that he was conversations more en­room, and to the best of my "I appreciate the presence,
I asked. Frank mumbled,

the John Wayne of the English lightened than we had ever memory, neither did most hope, and beauty ofyour lives. 
"This damn nickel won't stay

Department. He carried a frail dared to imagine. Lyons residents. These are the last words
in the damn machine." 

frame within his turtleneck One early morning around 2 However, I once did. Frank you'[[ hear from me -for the
As I looked at his pink­

sweaters and tan overcoat. AM, after the Wizard of Oz ran into me in the hallway time being anyway. I don't
colored hand, I saw that the 

Well then, you would think had played on television, we while emptying his trash. He know what's in store for me in
coin was a Canadian nickel. I 

that he at least was a silver­were keeping students awake asked me to step into his room the near future or far-off
replied, "Mr. O'Malley, this is a 

tongued orator who could by playing on a tape where the walls were shelved future. And I hope you'[[
Canadian nickel. That's why it 

rival any forensics coach, or recorder"Follow the Yellow with books. His overcoat lay remember these words. 
won't go into the 'damn 

Lou Holtz for that matter, in Brick Road" in the hallway. upon his bed giving me the im­I have a wish and hope for 
machine."' 


piper who taught five genera­tions of ND students how to live and laugh, sing and cry, love and endure? 
I lived on the third floor of Lyons Hall for four years with Frank O'Malley, enrolled in two of his courses, was one of his hall disciples, and cannot fully describe the profound influence he had on me. The best descriptions are the moments I can recall of him ­his wit, his love, his suffering. 
Room 327 in Lyons Hall was O'Malley's residence. In the early 1930's when he graduated, it was common to have resident professors. He never left ND after his Morrissey and probably throwing water balloons at the nearest windows. After abusing Morrissey for hours, Frank appeared on our floor from an evening with "a hopelessly dry martini" at the University Club. 
He explained some of the underlying meanings of the movie, turned towards his door, paused and shook his head while he mumbled, "Lyons, Tigers, Morrissey." He left us captive undergraduates actually rolling on the floor in laughter. 
On another evening at about 4 AM, I heard this constant rimmed glasses at his slightly shaking hand, he shook his head and handed me the coin saying, "Here, put this in your archives." He then climbed the stairs quietly, still shaking his head while his four other cans of soda bulged in his overcoat pockets. 
O'Malley would appear at various hours after midnight in the hallway and retreat to his room where mumbling sounds from a radi.o played until mid-day. Once inside he would never answer his door. In the four years I lived on that floor, I never saw him an­swer the door, not even during that night. On his desk sat a pile of books that looked like a wall around three sides. He told me to look at them because "all of these are my students." 

Edwin O'Connor's The Edge of Sadness sat on top with "Pulitzer Prize Winner" printed in large red letters on the cover. I opened the book to the dedication page which read, "To Frank O'Malley." 
Of all the O'Malley students, O'Connor achieved the highest honor. I do not know when O'Connor first sat in an O'Malley class, but I know that Frank loved to teach freshmen weekend to visit the O'Malley Symposium at the Center for Continuing Education, please attend. The schedule is available in The Observer and around campus. I am sure that a little of O'Malley's magic will rub off on all who attend as he still touches hearts from his grave. 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and now works in Washington D.C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House of Representatives . 

There are many advantages to single gender colleges 
"Why do you want to go to an all-girls college?" 
That's the question I kept get­ting asked during my senior year of high school -mainly be­cause the mentioned high school was all-girls, and my friends didn't understand why I wanted to "put myself through that again." 
In answering, first I'd tell them it was and all-women's college (which didn't make any big impression), and then I'd expound upon the many advantages of a single-gender community. 
To wit: 
1) You c·an go to class looking as if you just came through a wind-tunnel without worrying what The Guy Behind You thinks. And if you feel you sim­ply must wear your Garfield slippers to class. no problem. High fashion is not the goal here. 
2) You can concentrate better on your studies. My mother thought this one up; I'm not sure I convinced anyone else. To tell the truth, I'm not con­vinced. But presumably, worry­ing about what The Guy Behind You thinks about your hair lets you take better notes, and ergo get better grades. 
Maybe. 
3) There are guys -that come over from Notre Dame, so that you're not totally isolated from the male species. While this is true, I used this explanation before I had all the facts -i.e., you have to be: a) practically 
. engaged to a guy before he'll a 
Karen Albers 
Guest columnist 
make the mile-long hike, or b) spend fifty cents to get to SMC and back. 
On the shuttle on Saturday nights, you'll find the majority of people are going from SMC to ND -rarely the other way around. I mean, my brother hardly comes over, and we're blood-related. My theory is that a campus that takes only five minutes to cross on foot makes the guys uneasy, and also that they're away from the protective power of the Dome. 
4) In my particular case, I'm used to the single-gender com­munity. That's an advantage to the students have that went to all-girls high schools -the absence of males doesn't bother them, while those who went to coed school were, I think. expecting men to pop out from behind the woodwork during the first few weeks. They've adjusted now, I'm happy to say, and doing nicely. 

The one disadvantage I've found so far -and maybe I'm the only one to perceive it, and maybe it only bothers me -is a pressure to date. Because you're not in an environment that lets you be around guys long enough to become good friends -unless you're in a ND/SMC activity -dating to just be around guys becomes a big priority. 
Having had little luck in the dating scene, I'm doing my best to <;ope when I see those happy­go-lucky, hand-holding couples around me. 
But I can put up with that one problem, which is far outweighed by all the other ad­vantages. I may not have con­vinced a lot of my friends back in Toledo, Ohio, but I'm satis­fied that a single-gender com­munity is the place for me. 
So, say what you will about the all-women's college -I'll just forgo the makeup. slip on my Odie slippers, and sing "I Am Woman" at the top of my lungs on my way to class. Karen Albers is a freshman in­tending to major in writing and literature at Saint Mary's College. 
Accent 

Wednesday, October 2, 1991 page 9 
John O'Brien 
Rocknels Lovechild 
Songs you'll never hear (but should) 

hh. it's fall and there's music in the air. 
There's music in the trees, there's 
musk in the lakes, there's even music 
on WVfl. but you probably couldn't 
lwar it even if you wanted to. But that's a column in itself. 
This column is not about whether WVfl 
should get an FM transmitter (they should) or 
1wen if tiH~y'll play good music once they do 
( tlwy won't.) This is about music-the kind of 
musk BVeryone would like to hear but probably 
nnver will. We've all heard of cover versions of 
songs. When a new artist records a classic hit, 
it's called a cover version. 
Sometimes covers aren't as good as the originals (like the Pet Shop Boys' vnrsion of U2's "Where thn Strnets llave No Names.") Other times. though, the grnatness of a cover edipses that of tlw original (I'm thinking, of course, of Tiffany's "When I Saw Him (her) Standing Tlwre. ") That version is a dassic in and of itself. NOT. 
But there are some songs that just beg to be cov1~red by somebody. With the help of some friends, The Observer has compiled this list of songs that you'll probably never hear on the radio (even on WVFI-FM.) 
These songs, it is rumored, will soon be released on a K-Tel record titled "Fast Cars, Short Skirts and Warm Busch Beer." 
• 
Oh Lord It's Hard to Be Humble (When You're Perfect in Every Way) by Lou Holtz. 

• This Land is Your Land by Yitzhak Shamir. 

• 
When I Think About You, I Touch Myselfby Pee-Wee Herman. 


• 
Stayin' Alive by Jim Morrisson, Elvis Presley, .lames Dean and Amelia Earhart. 

• /Jon 't Drive Drunk by the Chicago Bears. 

• 
h'bony and Ivory by Paul Peralez and Billy Allen. 

• 
All My Rowdy Friends Are Coming Over Tonight by any student living in the Northeast Neighborhood. 

• Strangers in the Night by the Blue Jogger. 

• 
I Fought the Law (and the Law Won) by Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose. 

• 
Where are the Clowns? by the Democratic National Committee. 

• 
Welcome to the Jungle by Kevin Hooney, di metor of admissions. 


• Homeward Bound by ferdinand Marcos. 
• Only the Good Die Young by Pope John Paul II. 
• You Shook Me All Night Long by Barbara Bush (to George). 
• 
Debbie Gibson is Pregnant with My Tivo­1/eaded Love Child by Doogie Howser, M.D. 

• 
It's the End ofthe World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine) by Dan Quayle. 

• 
That's What Friends Are For by Lt. Norval Williams 


• Friends in Low Places by Edward DeBartolo. 
• /lot Legs by JetTrey Dahmer. 
• Workin 'for a Living by .John Sununu . 
• /Jad to the Bone by those short women who work in the dining halls. 
• If You Want My Body (and You Think I'm Sexy) by Fat Shirley. 
• Alive and Kicking by Bo Jackson. 
• llrPaking Up is Hard to Do by Donald Trump. 
• 
I Wanna Be Rich by Fr. William Beauchamp and Dick Rosenthal. 

• 
Why Don't We Get Drunk and Screw by Patricia O'Hara. 

• 
Memories by Honald Reagan. 

• 
So Long, Farewell by Digger Phelps. Order now! And remember: No C.O.D.'s. 




John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. /lis columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
NO and Xavier participate 
in exchange program 
By JIM BONALSKY Accent Writer 
Maria Newman and Keitha Hargest are students at the University of Notre Dame. Maria Newman and Keitha Hargest are students at Xavier University in New Orleans. 
A contradiction, you say? Impossible, you claim? 
Perhaps in the past the above statements would be mutually exclusive, but today, thanks in part to Roland Smith of Notre Dame and Charles Prejean of Xavier, they are not. The new student exchange program the two educators are in the process of forming is well on its way to evolving into a strong and lasting partnership between the two schools. 
Xavier University is a small school located in ~:"!""-:-----~~~-New Orleans. It also "This town might happens to be the only be a little slower predominantly black, 
Catholic college in the than New 0 rIeanS, country. Though it has an but the community enrollment of only 3,400 spirit is common to students, it is the second 
largest producer of Black both Xavier and students for medical and Notre Dame." dental schools nationally. -Maria N~wman Eighty percent of Xavier 
-----------students who apply to medical and dental schools are accepted, which is thirty percent above the national average. Fifteen percent of all Black pharmacy students are enrolled there. 
These figures should give one an indication that this school is in the upper echelon of colleges, yet it is not often referred to during discussions regarding the top nation_al schools. In fact, most people probably confuse it with Xavier of Ohio. To set the record straight, the Xavier in our exchange program did not beat Georgetown in the NCAA's. 
The idea for an exchange program was fostered two years ago. The original goal was to increase the number of Blacks going on to graduate 
schools and to encourage Xavier students to come to Notre Dame graduate school. According to Smith, many students at Xavier go in as pre-med when their talents could perhaps be put to other 
use. 
Another problem facing minority students is the fact that businesses lure them to work straight from college, thus eliminated graduate school. If students are exposed to the Doctorate programs at Notre Dame before they graduate, Smith believes, they will be encouraged to attend graduate school, be it here or elsewhere. 
This is the pilot year of the program. There are two students from Xavier attending Notre Dame this semester, and we will send two students there next semester. The exchange can be considered similar to a foreign studies program because the Xavier students pay Xavier tuition and the classes they take transfer. 
The tuition aspect is a vital one because it olTers the opportunity of a semester of Notre Dame 
..... 
The Observer I Sean Farnan 

From left, Keitha Hargest, Dr. Roland Smith, and Maria Newman are all involved in the new student exchange program. 
education to those who would ordinarily not be able to alTord it. The average cost of a year at Xavier is around $8,000. 
A faculty exchange is also part of the program. Charles Prejean is visiting from Xavier this semester to teach a civil rights course while doing research at the same time. The faculty exchange is still in the rough stages, but it will be built around the joint research. 
Along with this program, Notre Dame submitted a grant to the department of education for the Ron McNair Post-Baccalaureate Program. This is designed for first generation college or minority students to pursue graduate school. 
Notre Dame has sought after this grant in conjunction with Xavier and Clark/Atlanta Uni­versity, another predominantly black college in Atlanta. 
Students will be selected to come to Notre Dame for research. When they return to their original school, they will continue research with their old professors, while at the same time keeping in contact with the Notre Dame faculty. This will enable students and faculty to benefit from the resources of all three schools. 
Last week, the department"Here, the faculty of education announced that helps, but gives Notre Dame will indeedh receive the grant. 
YOU mUC more One might wonder about 
personal the culture shock involved 
responsibility. I when a student moves from a j:lredominantly black to a 
think that helps predominantly white 
prepare you better atmosphere.
for the real WOrld., Maria Newman, a senior 
exchange student from -Maria Newman Xavier, has not found it a -----------difficult transition. 
"It hasn't really been hard because New Orleans is such a melting pot that I'm used to seeing all types of cultural diversity. Things are great and I really love it here. This town might be a little slower than New Orleans, but the community spirit is common to both Xavier and Notre Dame," she says. 
"The major difference is that my old school really took care of its students," Maria continues. "If you missed a few classes or did poorly on a test, the faculty would call you and ask what was wrong. Here, the faculty helps but gives you much more personal responsibility. I think that helps prepare you better for the real world." 
page 10 Accent Wednesday, October 2, 1991 
By JEN GUERIN "a typical day involves just sit­Accent Writer ting and visiting people." Gina Perez, an associate at 
A journey. Far into the the Pocuro site, grapples with South American country of her feelings on the subject of Chile-poblacions changing the speed of her ("shantytowns") bordering lifestyle: "Often times I feel as great cities; poverty coexisting if I should be out doing some­
with wealth; political factions thing I feel is important. But I constantly in conflict. am slowly beginning to realize 
Holy Cross Associates, a that the most important thing program of service and faith for me to do right now is to sit for graduating Notre Dame and listen and talk to people. and Saint Mary's seniors, sub­That is the only way I will be­merges its participants in the come more aware and radically different culture and sensitive to the people and the atmosphere of this nation, en­way they live." couraging their spiritual and Submersion in the "simple 
mental growth. life" in Chile is in fact a For three years, Chilean complicated emotional associates enter on the most process for Holy Cross trying journey of their lives -participants. Dealing with the journey to a foreign land feelings of loneliness, a journey towards independence, sharing with 
understanding themselves oneself and one's companions and the extent of their faith in community, may be difficult and commitment to others. and challenging at times. 
Since 1978, Holy Cross These challenges are a Associates have been strong crucial part of the experience. and willing enough to live in Associates learn the essence the unpredictable foreign of simple living, namely culture of Chile, working in "prioritizing life's important community with Holy Cross elements and coming to see brothers to both help and be differently, with a differ~nt helped by their Chilean vision -with the eyes of neighbors. those with whom we live and 
serve." Holy Cross Associates exists in six cities across the United Racugglia describes HCA as 
States and in Chile; each pro­a kind of "lay missionary gram is based on working in work" with the potential to be service towards others while a real, transforming 
undergoing the struggle of experience. Both he and Mary 
defining personal spiritual di­Ann White, assistant director, rection and perspective. Na­agree that most participants tional programs last for one 
ha\'e communicated the year each, while the Chile feeling that upon entering the program is a more extensive, Chilean experience. they are three year commitment. longing to give, realizing that 
After an extensive in their lives they have been application process, Chilean given so much. However, all associates undergo almost return feeling they have eight months of psychological, gained as much as they have emotional and academic given, profoundly and 
preparation for the trip. positively affected by the 
After consultation with entire experience. chosen resource guides and The Holy Cross Associates spiritual counselors, partici­experience has had an impact 
pants gather at Moreau Semi­on the values and lifestyles of nary in South Bend during all of its participants. August for an extensive schools for area children; pas­teach the associates about glecis Imposmg tradiiwnal Challenging their own minds orientation session before toral work with women's themselves and their own American work ethics and and bodies, associates have embarking on the journey to groups and youth groups; and faith while gaining a different concepts of time on the entered a foreign land, Cuernavaca, Mexico for up to spending time with Parroquia perspective from their Chilean people. For exposing themselves to the twelve weeks of necessary St. Roque, a Holy Cross neighbors. Americans, the slow-paced bad and good, the simple and language training beginning parish, in its various social culture of South America is complex, the frustrating and in September. and agricultural endeavors. Because they enter the pro­fascinating and very difficult ultimately rewarding aspects 
Upon completion of the lan­Associates do not escape the gram intending to learn more to comprehend. of life in service. guage training, associates churning political atmosphere than to . aid, Chilean Associate Dave Carey ex­Each one has come away a leave together for Chile, of Chile. Julie Dorrian, as associates feel a sense of plains, "Chileans use the different person from what he where they live in one of two associate at the Santiago site, humility and vulnerability to term 'passing time' instead of or she was on the first leg of Holy Cross homes has been working for over a the culture of Chile; most 'spending time,' as time here the long journey two and a approximately two hours' year at the Chile Information convert that sense of is not money as it is in the half years previous at travelling time apart. One Project (CHIP), a group in helplessness to a desire to USA. This viewpoint on time orientation in South Bend, house is in Santiago, the conjunction with the Catholic share with the people and is something I am still trying Indiana. capital city; the other in Vicaria, respected throughout truly grow during their time to value and appreciate fully Because of the intensity of Pocuro, a poblacion outside the country and world for its as associates. ... I do not have much to offer the commitment, Holy Cross Santiago at the base of the work in defense of human Current associate Jan Chileans in the way of a skill directors encourage a serious Andes Mountains. House rights under Pinochet's dicta­Lemmers admits the reality or knowledge, but I can offer discernment process before assignment is based on torship. of his situation: them my attention and applying to the Associates personal preference. "Control for me has always interest in their lives, as they program. They are always
-
Similar to the United States The anxieties and the been a form of security :.. do the same for me. eager to discuss the program, the Chile program difficulties of moving into Now that security is gone, all "While I continue to possibilities of the program involves gathering the house democracy are clear, she says, I'm left with is myself and struggle with feelings of with students from Notre members together once a "It was wonderful to share in those very things that I've uselessness because I do not Dame or Saint Mary's College, week for reflection on their the Chilean people's been able to avoid before. have much to show for my as early as the student's first experiences, feelings and celebration. But now, I get the There's nothing I can do but time here, I am slowly year at college and as late as questions, not only about sense that the honeymoon is meet those things face to face chipping away at my task­senior year. their work in Chile but about over, and it will be interesting and challenge them. It scares oriented mentality and en­In the words of Gina Perez, the changes they are to see how an extremely me, but I have no choice." joying the time I have to be "Chile is nothing like I thought undergoing as people and as politically divided country Julie Dorrian carries with people." it would be, but just after a Christians. works together to resolve the Lemmer's thoughts one step few months, I'm almost able 
social and human rights further in her letter home to Bob Racugglia, the new to accept life in Chile for what 
Associates receive no salary problems ... " the Holy Cross community, director of the program, it is and let go of my but are given necessary Unlike other service pro­when she admits: "These new discussed the hardships of the preconceived notions and means to take care of basic grams, HCA does not propose challenges do not directly Chilean experience. In expectations. It might not be needs and live simply in their to enter Chile as a group de­stem from my life in Chile, but addition to adapting to the what I wanted. But I think it communities. signed to instruct and direct: rather they are questions physical obstacles like may be what I needed." 
The variety of work is "Associates are not called and which I find at the root of my extremely cold and rainy extensive and is determined sent from the USA to 'serve being. That is to say, I'm weather combined with Applications for the 1992­by the interests of the the needs of the Chilean being challenged by questions extremely humble housing 1994 program are due by associates and directors in people as if Chilean lay which I have asked, and will conditions, associates must November 5, 1991. Informa­Chile, and the needs of the persons might not be able to continue to ask, probably for reform their mental attitudes, tion can be attained at Holy Cross community there. respond to many needs in the rest of my life." as well -especially attitudes Campus Ministry . the Center 
Current Associate activities their own country.'" Just as it neglects imposing about time, production, and for Social Concerns, or by include work in health edu­HCA assumes Chilean self­superior attitudes towards the meeting deadlines. contacting Mr. Bob Racugglia cation, English, Spanish and sufficiency and uniqueness of surrounding community, the "The nature of working is a or Mary Ann White at math at two Holy Cross-run character which will serve to Holy Cross program also ne-lot different," says Racugglia, Moreau Seminary. 
I 
L 

--------------------·----------------------------------~ 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saini Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, rncluding all spaces. 
STUD TICKET BOOK FOR SALE  Needed: 2 USC GA's.  Biathalon Reminder:  
For Sale  CALL 3516  Call Sheila 283-4842.  Nancy Davis 38minutes  Go Walsh football-Beat O.C.II  
Notices  Brent Procida 53minutes  Don't fret-it's not our fault  
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill  NEEDED 2-3 GA'S FOR NAVY!  Need2 TN GAs  From your friends  the ref.'s don't know what an  
'NOTRE DAME VIDEO'  T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­ WILL PAY $$$ CALL 2605  Kim, Lisa, and Matt  offensive penalty is-much  
HOT NEW RELEASE  Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone  Zeke 1786  less anything else about foot­ 
Game Day Promotions 291-6394.  I need nx all games  Mike, congratulations on getting into  balllll  
THE DOORS  Jason x2030  I NEED 2 NAVY GAS  KU med school!  Good Luck!  
OVER40%0FF  CALL SCOTT X1688  Love,  
Lafortune Student Center  Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAPI  Need two GA's for Tennessee and  Love Knott 2B  The Monster  
4PM-11PM  -over Thanksgiving to see the ND  two for USC. Will PAYII Bill 2157  Need 2-4 USC GAs  
football game in Honolulu. Call  &1 Pitt tix ASAP!!  Guido's birthday ... .it's approaching.  
IRISH GARDENS  x3457 for info.  I HAVE TWO STUDENT TICKETS  Kathy x3803  Get him drunk and ask him to  Second Floor Walshiites.  
TO ALL HOME GAMES. I NEED  recount his high school days as a  This year has truly been superb so  
Lot of dances this Weekend!  COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr,  TWO TENNESSEE TICKETS.  Patrick needs Tennessee nx  smooth-dressin', sweet-talkin' Fort  far I  
And Pre-ordering is Available  $700/bst John@271-9239  WILL TRADE OR SELL.  x1001  Wayne stud.  We're having a blast!  
Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100  Hey frosh-CJ's this week Ill  
Lafortune Student Center  386sx mthrbrd/upgrade your PCI $350, 386 notebook  $$$$$  NEED 2 GA or STUD TIX for TENN. $or sexual favors pending. call  JOHN GORDON: Tell me how to get your attention. -Joelle  -Buffy.........................  
USED BOOKS CHEAP!IIIIIIIII  40megs, VGA, $2400/b  USC GA's needed. Call and leave  271-1545  
25% off list price  Matt x1778  message 277-9468.  EAR CANDY  Do you have the Pitt Tickets that  
10-5:30 everyday  Need 1 NAVY GA -Tony #2199  WVFI640am  could make my day? I need 4. Call  
Pandora's Books corner of ND  For Sale:  $$$$$  or #2174  presents  Lisa x4825  
ave & Howard  nx to DC  
for October Break  NEED TENN. GA'S.  PITT GA'S FOR SALE  The Jericho Sesssions  You know him as Tony. Or T.C. We  
TYPING AVAILABLE  10/18 -10/25  CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS,  CALL 1781;  call him Guido in the Fort. Whatever  
287-4082  $200 or negotiable  OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM.  MAKE OFFER  A 73 minute CD featuring 19  his name is, he's got a birthday  
Call 284-4452  original songs from 19 campus  coming up.  
Right to Life  1 STD TIC 4 Sale  NEED 1 PITT GA  bands. All procedes benefit the  
Weekly Picket at Crisis  Fender Sidekick Reverb Amp  232-8230  CALL MATT X3666  South Bend Runaway Shelter.  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO  
Pregnancy Center every Friday.  65watts RMS  GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA OR  
Meet at 9am-Library  w/reverb tool switch  NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO  NEED 4 PITT GA'S AND 2 NAVY  ON SALE NOWI!  ANYWHERE IN VICINITY FOR  
circle.  and distortion.Like New  ALL HOME GAMES.  GA'S ... CALL 288-7458 AND ASK  AT  OCTOBER BREAK. CALL KATHY  
Paid $260, asking $160 or b/o  X1578  FOR MATT OR ROB  LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK  284-5269.  
Heather x4230  
Lost and Found  WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD  PLEASE!! I NEED 2 NAVY GAS  LIVE MUSIC  Jen and Whitey: apologies you  
JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE?  HEIDI-277-6806  Dominic Campanella  want, but the truth comes first. It's  
LOST  1988 TOYOTA CARROLA SR-5  NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC  at The Coffeehouse  my duty to report the news. More to  
Saphira Braclet  SILVER, NEW SNOWS, NO  ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­ Relative have never seen  Friday, Oct. 4  come ...  
Reward if found  MAINTENANCE, GREAT CAR!  0654  CONDOMS IN ACTION!  (Acoustic Originals)  
Call Heather 277-5280  GREAT BUY AT $5200!  NEED 3 USC GA'S to have  Happy Birthday Katie Caputo!  
256-7013  their DREAMS COME TRUE  SMC -NO Summer Programs in  Love, Dan and Mark (the  
LOSTIII!IIIIIIII  WANTED; 2 TENN TICKETS  Call MIKE at X2360  London (5/20-6/19) and Rome  Spiders),Bogart, Blackie, Paul,  
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS  PLEASE CALL EMILY AT  (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland,  Edward, and Blake(p.51)  
i lost my l.d., detex, etc.  Promote and Organize our Spring  277-4861  Have Pitt  Scotland, England, France,  
a\ STAR WARS friday night  Break tours. All materials furnished.  Need Tenn  Germany, Switzerland, and Italy.  Peanut Butter and Shut Ass  
(10:30 show)  Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus  x3074  Courses in bio, business, education,  sandwhiches  
Pleeeze call lisa right away  Marketing. 1-800-423-5264  i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791  history, photography, Italian, polysci,  
VERY IMPORTANT!  selling 2 pitt std tx bull need 2 usc  and sociology. Meeting Oct. 7 at  Hedy La Guapa­ 
X4862  I NEED TENN TIX BADLY!  std tx. Will buy the USC tx or trade  6:15, Carroll hall. Teachers,  1just wanted to cheer you  
Tickets  CALL MIKE AT 1103.  2 Pitt tx+$$. Sean x 1387  students, pizza. etc.  up .... now that the sheep are back,  
FOUND: GRAY WALLET IN  start shearin'l (arai-what?)  
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME  4-SALE  HEY KEENAN BOX THANKS FOR  Oh mygoosh...  
CALL STELl US AT 277-8827 TO  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  GAMES 273-1802  STUD. TIX BOOK  THE SOFTBALL RODEO-SE&SI  Smile 'cuz you're loved I  
IDENTIFY.  288-5859  Mama D.  
Need 5 GAs for Tenn,will pay  Need Navy GA's-call Derek at  hey nil  
LOST OR STOLEN  cash,277-5312  x1374  Please Help! I need Pitt GA's for  Bo- 
LICENSE PLATE  family. Call Jim@ 1493.  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
Illinois plate reading  WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for  Need Tenn GAs  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  Do we meet at the lake after away  
"D TROIT" missing since  family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!  Have$$$$  Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  games, too? I forget.  
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off  HELP MEl Dan x2349  Karen x4808  pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206)  289-1993. Office near campus.  
somewhere between Kaplan  624-7990  Ben- 
Educational Center (next to Turtle  PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  HELP!  LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes  l'm looking forward to our hot date­ 
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's  Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay  TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED  I desperately need 2 U.S.C student  every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am.  even if I have to share you. Get  
cute, but it will cost a bundle to  $$$. Call at work  Please call Sam Santo at  G.A's. Call Molli @ 3950.  Eastern lime. Train and jump the  those hands ready!  
replace so PLEASE return if you  (312) 701-6204 or at home  (201 )217-0030 (home) or  same day. Modern equipment and  Love ,Molly  
have it and no questions will be  (708) 616-7818 anytime.  (201) 992-8700 (work).  NEEDED; 1 OR 2 PITT GA's  training programs. Licensed  
asked!I If you have the plate or  PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX  PLEASE CALL JOHN at x1590.  instructors. FFI call Skydive  Hey Luke (Chauffeur King).  
info, call 4911. Generous reward  I'M SHIT OUT OF LUCK. ... UNLESS  Thanks!  Hastings (616) 948-2665.  Thanks for stopping at 7-11 . How's  
offered.  WANTED: 2 NDITN tickets. CAll  YOU SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C.  the rose?  
502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm  CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S  ADOPTION  Love, Kristin  
LOST-J-Crew Barn Jacket  collect.  LOG  Personal  Happy, loving couple wishes to  
Olive Green. Los\ Thursday  raise your while newborn with  It's Katie Caputo's birthday!  
September, 19. Call Mike  I have 2 NAVY GAs  VINCE (KATHY'S LOG)  I am the Lizard King and I can do  warmth & love. Can provide  
X2095  will trade for 2 PITT GAs  BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C.  anything.  financial security & education.  Call her and make her day  
call Nicole at x3719  GA'S FOR HIS DOMER  Medical/legal expenses paid.  meow, meow  
LOST!! IIIII  RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS  $$$$  Please answer our prayers by  run, run we're going to miss  
NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE  ZIPLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR  Need GA's to all home games.  calling  SYR-Party  
at Steppan fields or tennis  CALL JILL 272-1967.  3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER  have extra Purdue tix.  Maureen & Jim  the quarter inch cut off your hair  
courts on Sunday, Sept. 29,  lAM  Call Tom x1563  1-800-456-2!)56.  Busch  
gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that  NEEDED: 4 PITT GAs  OK Good  
have lots of sentimental value.  Call Heather at 3427.  '68 ALUM DESPERATELY  FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP +  OVER40%0FF  
If found, please call x2867  WANTS 2 GA'S TO  CASH I CANCUN, JAMAICA,  Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP!  Get ready to get wasted I  
$$$$REWARD$$$$$  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR  TENNOR USC  BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON  -over Thanksgiving to see the ND  Love Clanc, Trish, and Colleen  
TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL  CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783  CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP +  football game in Honolulu. Call  
601-249-3417 NIGHTS.  BONUS CASH I FOUR SEASONS  x3457 for info.  To the hottest Alumni dog- 
Wanted  DESPERATELY SEEKING PITT  1-800-331-3136.  Your day might have been "cool"  
Help! 3 GAs needed for PITT  AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM  '' MOVIES on a NY BUS? "  but tonight will be "coup d'etat" II  
Need nde to UVa/vicinity for break­ Call X1678  LIZ-3783 OR 2184  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  We've got more potential than you  
Will help gas,tolls. Sheri x2191  1st time! Bus wNCR to Ll-lv 10/19  might think ... Happy 18thlll  
FULFILL MY NEEDSIII 2 PITT & 4  Need 3-4 PITT. TICKETS. Will  FAST EASY INCOME I  rtn 1 0/25-sign up & $ Oct 3  Love, your cradle robber  
PAPA JOHN'S PillA  TENN GA CALL TIM #1706  pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396.  EARN tOO'S WEEKLY STUFFING  Lafortune 8-!0pm. ?s Janice x2639,  
Now hiring drivers 1 0-40 hrs. per  ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ Joni x3793  Going to Boston for Oct. break?  
wk. Wages + \ips + comm. Flexible  I HAVE NAVY STUD TO TRADE  HAVE 2 PITT 2 NAVY TIX;  ADDRESSED STAMPED  Need someone to split a companion  
schedules & perks. Call today 271­ OR SELL. NEED PITT GA OR  NEED 2 USC TIX;  ENVELOPE TO:  We need enthusiastic, articulate  plane ticket. Roundtrip $110.  
1177.  STUD. MARY 2648.  WILL SWAP 201-487-9000  FAST INCOME  individuals to communicate with our  Shannon 284-5441  
FAST, PROFESSIONAL WORD PROCESSING $1.00 DOUBLE  Need 2 or 4 PITT GAs. Will pay $$$ Call Pat, 234-3973 after 6PM  Need 4 TENN GA's call jon 271-1562  P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517  computer product customers world­wide. Full and part-time positions available from 10am-7pm.  Another Ten Quotes From Jeff Sabella's Love Journey  -..  
SPACED PAGE BEFORE 4-239­ .  URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2  Familiarity with personal computers  
2174 AFTER 5-277-6304/683-5290  NEED TENN. AND NAVY TIX.  HELP -need 2 GA for Pitt game.  PITT TIX Kathleen @ x3726  helpful but not required. Our terrific  10. "Oude ........ Relish?l Yeah, I  
HAVE PITT AND USC STUD. TO  call Katie x5529  x4132.  staff, pleasant working conditions  want relish on that Wendy Burger."  
TRADE OR SELL. JOE X 2064  and new office building on the river  9. "Sara. order for me ....... l can't  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS  Need Pitt GA's x1694  0 great and wombat-ridden Eli:  create a positive non-smoking  read anymorellllllll"  
to students or student organizations  i need 2 GAs tor PITT for my aunt,  Your stability and benign smile  environment. Send resume to:  8. "We're in a raid, YEAH II"  
promtlng our Spring Break  who's a nun, and her friend, another  I need 2 USC \ix  have been a balm for my weary  Department CD  7. "If he jumps on that bed one  
Packages. Good Pay and Fun.  nun. Would you deny a nun her  Tom #3109  nerves. Thanks for being there.  Microshpere, Inc.  more time I'm gonna club him."  
Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264.  fun? Greg x1795  Chi-Chi's we?  56790 Magnetic Dr.  6. "liza, shut up and go back to  
I need 4 GA's for the USC game.  Mishawaka, IN 46545  sleep!"  
T 2 Tenn. GA's needed.  Please call Carla at  ATTENTION MICH. ST. VIEWERS!  5. "It's Six in the morning, I'm hung  
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling  E Leave message for Matt.  x5404  I need a copy of the Mich St. vs. NO  To the loser who has nothing better  way over and I'm looking for a little  
Spring Break Packages to  N  '91 game on video for a spirited NO  to do than read poetry by Jfm  companionship, is that so wrong?"  
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  N 1-800-443-0188.  NEED 3 USC GA TIX; CALL DAVE  fan who missed it. Contact  Morrisson; Get a life. He was a  4. "My boyfriend is a poster child."  
Florida! Best Trips and Prices!  E  283-1545.  Gabrielle at x2855  mediocre singer for a good  3. "Excuse us, could you tell us  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-638­ S PRICE IS NO ISSUE &  band-Not some sacrificial Christ  how to get to the Skulls house?"  
6786.  S quick reply guaranteed.  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND  GETAWAY WEEKEND  figure/poet. The only thing good  2. "Burritos as big as your head!"  
E  TENN.  KOONTZ HOUSE  about Oliver Stone's movie was to  1. "Can we party in here? Our  
E Thanks!  BED 'N BREAKFAST  show what a jerk Morrisson was. I,  friends are fighting upstairs."  
For Rent  CALL TOM  23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE  am the Lizard King, AND I can do  PLUS ....... A bonus dialogue  
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  X1762  DAME  anything. HA HA HAl  between a Notre Dame woman and  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  586-7090  a Purdue woman:  
219-291-7153  ONLY Chance to SEE Mom & Dad  I NEED PITT GA'S X3467  CAMP LEWIS  "Hi, I go to Notre Dame but can I  
BEFORE CHRISTMASIIIIIIIIII  DO YOU KNOW WHO THIS IS?  Bug juice for everyone!!!  have a beer?"  
House lor Rent  NEED TWO USC TIX (GA'S)  I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY  I DIDN'T THINK SO. (CLICK)  "You see that guy there, he's with  
$200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  WILL PAYI CALL AMANDA AT  GA TIXS.272-6306  THURSDAY IS PK'S B-DAY  Finally the day has come! The Post  me and the other one is with my  
8am-4pm.  17t5. I MISS MOM & DADIIIIIII  Graduate Fair is tonight from 7 -1 0  friend ...... don't touch them !I"  
1310 South Bend Ave.  I NEED 2-3 PITT GA'S  CORKY LOST THE ROOM II  pm at the CSC. Seniors and all  "Fine, but can I have a beer?"  
HELP!! I need PITT TIX for my  Julie x2912  interested undergrads can come  
BED AND BREAKFAST  parents and some friends-if  I am the Lizard Child, and I've got  find out what service opportunities  I need 4 Pitt. G.A's  
Lovely rooms with private bath &  I don't get'em I'm dead II  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  an Oedipus complex that'll  are available. Don't miss out on this  Call Monica (as In Eigelbergerl)  
entrance. 291-7845.  Please call Lynne@ X2614  CALL JOANNE X4899  drive you wild.  great event!  273-2202  

Ult..;. f 
page 12 SCOREBOARD Wednesday, October 2,1991 
NFC LEADERS BASEBALL STANDINGS

PENNANT RACES 
AMERICAN LEAGUE All Times EDT Eaat Dlvlalon AMERICAN LEAGUE
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 

Quarterback• Toronto 88 70 .557 All Com Yds TO lrt w L Pd GB L10 Streak Home AwayBoeton 83 74 .529 4 112 96 1290 8 4 Toronto 70 8-4 Wont 45-35 
W L Pd.GB East Division 
Young, S.F. 151 

88 .557 43-35Ryplen, Wash. 72
Remaining Games 114 988 6 5 Boston 83 .529 4112 3-7 Losl1 42·34
74 41-40Altman, Oall. 151 94 1055
TORONTO {4)-Home {1): Oct. 2, 6 3 Detron 81 76 6112 6·4 Won2 32-44
.516 49-32McMahon, PhD.
Callomla. Awtq {3): Oct. 4-6, Minnesota. 125 80 1155 4 3 Milwaukee 78 79 .497 9112 6-4 Lost! 43-37 35-42
Harbaugh, Chi. 146

BOSTON (5)-Home {5): Oct. 2·3, 90 1066 5 3 New York 68 89 .433 19112 6-4 Won2 36-40 
32-49
Hostetler, Giants 

0811011; Oct. 4-6, MliwatJ<ee. 147 96 1057 2 3 Battlmore 66 91 .420 21112 4-6 Loet2 32-46 34-45Hebert, N.O. 138 80 936 6 4 Cleveland 55 102 .350 32112 4-6 Lost3 29-51 25-52Tupa, Phoe. 127 70 1016 5
NATIONAL LEAGUE 5 West Division Waat Dlvlalon 110 58 2 w Pd GB L10
Testaverde, T.B. 738 

3 L Streak Home AwayPeete, Det. 129 75 845
W l Pd.GB 3 7 x-Minnesota 94 63 .599 7-3 Won2 50-28 44-35 Loe Angeles 91 66 .580 Chicago 94 73 .535 10 3-7 
Lost3 44-35 40-38Rushers

Atlanta 91 67 .576 112 Oakland 83 75 .526 11 112 Wont 47-34
5-5 36-41 Remaining Games All Yds Avg LG TO Texas 83 75 .526 11 112 6-4 Lost! 44-33 39-42
B.Sanders, Det.

LOS ANGELES {5) -Home {2): Oct. 1·2, 107 524 4.9 69 6 Kansas City 81 77 .513 13112 6-4 Loa11 39-41 42-36 San Diego. Awtq {3): Od. 4-6, San Francisco. E.Smtth, Dall. 97 517 5.3 75 4 Seattle 80 78 .506 14 112 4-6 Wont 43-35 37-43 ATLANTA {4)-Home {3): Oct. 4-6, Byner, Wash. 106 463 4.3 25 3 California 78 80 .494 16 112 4-6 Loa11 37-41 41-39 Houston. Away {1): Oct. 2, Clndnnatl. 49 1
Walter, Minn. 92 401 4.4 Delpino, Rams 83 3.5 5 LEAGUE
293 36 
NATIONAL 
Anderson, Chi. 86 280 3.3 3
42 East Division

TRANSACTIONS Fenerty, N.O. 54 253 4.7 54 0 w L Pd GB L10 Streak Home AwayHeyward, N.O. 
62 221 3.6 15 4 x-PIItsburgh 96 62 .608 7-3 Won3 50-30 46-32
Hampton, Giants 43 211 4.11 44

BASEBALL 3 St. Louis 83 75 .525 13 7-3 Won2 51-32 32-43
Thompson, Phoe. 72 197 2.7 0 .481

National League 15 Philadelphia 76 82 20 5-5 Won2 45-34 31-48 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Announced the New York 75 82 .478 20112 4-6 Lost2 40-42 35-40
Receivers

-lgnation of Dennis Sommers, lead scout. Chicago 73 83 .468 22 2-8 Lost2 43-37 30-46 NEW YORK METS-Named Steve Phillips NO Yds Avg LG TO Montreal 70 87 .446 25 112 5-5 Lost3 33-35 37-52
E.Jones, Phoe. 23 372 16.2 53 2

director of minor league operations; Scott Brown West Division
Irvin, Dall. 

administrative asslatant of scouting; and Maureen 23 330 14.3 30 3 w L Pd GB L10 Streak Home Away
Barnett, Phil. 23 322 14.0 75

Cooke administrator of mnor league department. 2 Los Angeles 91 66 .580 7-3 Won2 53-26 38-40
Rice, S.F. 
20.2

New York-Penn League 22 445 73 6 Atlanta 91 67 .576 112 6-4 Won5 46-32 45-35
Davia, Chi. 22 337 15.3

AUBURN ASTROS-Announced the resignation 75 2 San Diego 80 77 .510 11 6-4 Loat2 39-39 41-38
Clark, Wash. 21 16.3 2 74
342 75

of John Graham, general manager, effective Cincinnati 84 .468 17112 4-6 Loat2 39-41 35-43
Sharpe, G.B. 

Noverrber 15. 21 292 13.9 38 0 San Francisco72 85 .459 19 3-7 Lost2 40-36 32-49
Clark, Det. 21 276 13.1 36 0

NIAGARA FALLS RAPIDS-Named larry Parrish Houston 63 94 .401 28 4-6 Wont 37-44 26-50
20 
37

manager. Byars, Phil. 271 13.6 2 x-cllnched division title 
Meggett, Giants 20 164 82

BASKETBALL 21 1 z-denotes first game was a win. National Basketball Aalocla1ion 
Punters 

LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Signed Tony AMERICAN LEAGUE 8.-n, forward, and Greg Wlhjer, center. NO Yds LG Avg Monday'a Gamea
Newsome, Minn. 22 1032 60 46.9

LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Signed Anthony Seattle 3, Texas 2, 11 Innings, 1st game 
Barnhardt, N.O. 27 61

Jones, forward. 1219 45.1 Texas 2, Seattle 0, 2nd game
Camarillo, Phoe. 21 53
927 44.1 Feagles, Phil. 30 1308 77 

MIAMI HEAT-Signed Richard Anderson and New York 3, Cleveland 0 
43.6 Fulhage, Atl. 25 58

Ronnie Grandison, forwarda. Detron 8, Battlmore 3 
NEW YORK KNICKs-Renouncad the rights to 1081 43.2 CalKornla 2, Toronto 1 
Saxon, Dall. 18 775 62

Greg Grant, guard, and Eddie Lee Wlklns, forward. 43.1 Minnesota 8, Chicago 3 PHOENIX SUNS-Traded Xavier McDaniel, McJullen, G.B. 29 1195 56 41.2 Boston 9, Milwaukee 8 
Mojslejenko, S.F.

forward, to the New York Knlcka lor Jerrod Mus tal, 16 656 55 41.0 Kansas City 8, Oakland 4 
Landeta. Giants 17 61
692 40.7

forward, Trent Tucker, guard, and second-round Tueaday'a Gamea
Arnold, Det. 

draft picks In 1992 and 1994. 13 523 63 40.2 Milwaukee 11, Cleveland 0, lsi game SACRAMENTO KINGS-Signed Randy Brown, Cleveland 6, Milwaukee 2, 2nd game
Punt Returners 

guard, to a two-year contract Toronto 5, CaHfornia 2 Continental Basketball Association Yds LG TO Minnesota 3, Chicago 2 
NO AvgMttchell, Wash. 16 304 19.0 69 2

LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Russell Cross, Detron 8, Boston 5 
Gray, Det. 

center, and Tom Lewis, forward. 10 165 16.5 42 0 New York 3, Bahlmore 2, 11 innings
Skahema, G.B. g 143 15.9 62

RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Nate 0 Seattle 8, Texas 1 Johnalon, forward. Taylor, S.F. 9 127 14.1 24 0 Oakland 4, Kansas City 0 
Bailey, Chi. 12

FOOTBALL 119 9.9 37 0 Wednaaday'a Gamea
Harris, Phil. 22 212 9.6 34 0

National Football League Battlmore (Rhodes 0-3) at New York (Perez 2-4), 7:30p.m. 
Sanders, At I. 13 125 23

DALLAS COWBOYS-Waived Alonzo Highsmith, 9.6 0 Detron (Terrell 12-13) at Boston (Hesketh 11-4), 7:35p.m. 
Meggett, Giants 14 132 9.4 16 0

fulfbadl. Milwaukee (Boslo 14-10) at Cleveland (Jones 4-7), 7:35p.m. 
V.Bod<, N.O. 21 164

INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-flrad Ron Meyer, 7.8 18 0 CalKornla (McCaskillt0-19) at Toronto (Candiottlt3-13), 7:35p.m. 
Drewrey, T.B. 10 7.4

coach, and Leon Burtn811, offensive coordinator 74 13 0 Minnesota (Tapanl 16-9) at Chicago (McDowellt7·10), 8:05p.m. and quarterbacks coach. Named Rick Venturi Oakland (Da~ing 3-6) at Kansas Cny (Saberhagen 13-6), 8:35p.m. 
Kidloll Returners

coach lor the remainder of the 1991 season. Seattle (Fleming 1-0) at Texas (Guzman 13-6), 8:35p.m. PHOENIX CARDINALS-Waived Rod Saddler, Thuraday'a Gamea
NO Yds Avg LG TO Gray, Del. 

defensive end. 14 374 26.7 56 0 Minnesota at Chicago, 1:05 p.m.
Dixon, Dall. 14 23.6

Canadian Football League 330 39 0 Battlmore a1 New York, 7:30p.m. 
Turner, Rams 7

BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Placed Lorenzo 163 23.3 36 0 Detrok a1 Boston, 7:35p.m. 
D.Carter, S.F. 

Graham, running back, on the practic9 roster. 10 216 21.6 52 0 Milwaukee at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. 
Bailey, Chi. 8 161 20.1 27 0

OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Acquired Terrence Only g~ scheduled
Skahema, G.B. 

Jones, quarterback, from the Calgary Stampeders 9 179 19.9 28 0 
Sanders, Phil. 7 131 18.7 31

lor future considerations. 0 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
HOCKEY Meggett, Giants 13 240 18.5 25 0 Monday'• GameaSanders, Atl. 9
National Hockey League 161 17.9 26 0 Atlanta 4, Cincinnati 0 
R.HIII, Mia.-Phoe. 8

NHL-suspended Ron Hextall, goattender, of the 139 17.4 33 0 Pittsburgh 6. New York 5 Philadelphia Flyers and Jim Cummins, ~ght wing, St. Louis 11. Montreal 1 
Scoring

of the Detroit Red Wings lor six g~ and three Philadelphia 6, Chicago 5
Touchdowns 

~mea respectively lor their parts In a slashing Houston 2. San Francisco 0 Incident during an exhibition game on Sept. 22. Ret Pts Los Angeles 7, San Diego 2 
TO Rush Rec Rice, S.F.

HARTFORD WHALERS-Sent Brian Chapman, 6 0 6 0 36 Tueaday'a Gamea
B.Sanders, Det. 6 6

delenaeman, and Joe Day, center, to Springfield of 0 0 36 Late Games Not Included
Anderson, Chi. 5

the American Hockey League and Patrick Poulin, 3 2 0 30 Pittsburgh 2, New York 1
Delpino, Rams

left wing, to St. Hyacinthe of the Quebec Major 5 5 0 0 30 St. Louis 3, Montreal 1 
Riggs, Wash. 5 0 30

Junior Hockey League. 5 0 Atlanta 7, Cincinnati& 
E.Sm~h. Dall.

LOS ANGELES KINGS-Reassigned Trevor 5 4 1 0 30 Philadelphia 6, Chicago 5, 13 innings 
Green, Det. 4

Pochiplnakl and Eric Ricard, defensemen, and 0 4 0 24 San Diego at Los Angeles, {n)
Heyward, N.O. 

Darryl Williams, forward, to New Haven of the 4 4 0 0 24 Houston a1 San Francisco, (n)
Byner, Wash.

American Hockey League. 3 3 0 0 18 Wedneaday'a Gamea
Hampton, Giants 3 3 0 0

MONTREAL CANADIENS-Signed Donald 18 Montreal (Gardner 9-10) at St.louis (Cormier 3-5), 1:35 p.m. 
Dufresne, defenseman, to a 1-year contract. Irvin, Dall. 3 3
0 0 18 Houston (Bowen 5-4) at San Francisco (McClellan 3-5), 3:35 p.m. Assigned Sean Hil, delenseman, to Fredricton of Tumer,N.O. 0 0 Atlanta (Giavlne 19-11) at Cincinnati (Scudder 6-8), 7:35p.m. 
3 3 

18 the American Hockey League. Workman, G.B. 3 
1 2 0 18 Chicago {Maddux 13-11) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 10-8), 7:35p.m.PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-Named Scotty 
New York (Schourek 5-4) at Pittsburgh (Tomlin 8-7), 7:35p.m. 
Bowman Interim head coach. Named Pierre Kicking San Diego (Harris 8-5) at Los Angeles (Belcher 1 0-9), 10:35 p.m. 
McGuire asaistant coacll. PAT LG
FG Pts Thuraday'a Game• TORONTO MAPLE LEAFs-sent Felix Potvin, Lohmiller, Wash. 19-19 12-14 53 55 No games scheduled 

goaltender, to St. John's of the American Hockey Andersen, N.O. 13-13 10-10 47 43 League. Released Aaron Broten, Dave Reid, Kevin Bahr, Giants 6-6 11-15 49 39 Maguire and Kevin McCLelland, forwards. G.Davla, Phoe. 8-8 9-13 52 35 LACROSSE Zendejas, Rams 1-7 8-8 50 31 Major Indoor Lacrosse League Butler, Chi. 9-9 7-9 46 30 MILL-Awarded franchise to Buffalo, N.Y. to begin Murray, 081. 12-12 6-10 46 30 play In the 1992 season. The team wtll be known Christie, TB. 5-5 8-11 38 29 as the Bandits. Coler, S.F. 11-11 6-10 47 29 COLLEGE Ruzek, Phil. 8-8 7-9 47 29 
MIDWEST INTERCOLLEGIATE FOOTBALL WUiis, Dal. 11-11 6-9 54 29 CONFERENCE-Announced Northwood lnstttute {Mich.) will join the conftlf&nce at the start of the 1993 season. 
GLASSBORO STATE-Named William Magee, 
Wea Yamamoto and Scott Govern asslstan.~t~---•••••••••••••••••••-...-~...~~~~,
IOOiball coaches. Named Penny Kempf asaistan.li 
f~G~~==n=h;hat 
It will add 
KEEP ALL YOUR OPTIONS OPEN! 

women's IOOC8< u • Vllllhy aport in 1992. PENNSYLVANIA-Named Mike Schnur men'a 
and women's asalatant swim coacll. 
POST

PITTSBURGH-Agreed to a mutll-year contract extenelon with Paul Evana, men's basketball 

GRADUATION 
VOLUNTEER FAIR 
Wednesday, October 2 7-10 pm Center for Social Concerns 
40 programs represented For Senior and Interested unde ads 



Rockne mule Miller dies 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) ­
E.E. "Hip" Miller, one of the Seven Mules who paved the way for the Four Horsemen on Knute Hockne's legendary Notre Dame teams of the mid­1920s, died Tuesday at the age of 90. 
Miller, a tackle, was the last surviving member of the 1922-25 Irish teams that posted a three-year 27-2-1 record, including a national championship in 1924. In 1966, he became the first of the Seven Mules to be elected to the National Football f<oundation Hall of Fame. 
After graduation in 1925, Miller briefly took at job with the Studebaker Co. in South Hend, Ind., but later that fall landed an assistant coaching job at Indiana under "Navy Hill" Ingram. 
In 1926, Ingram was named head coach at the Naval Academy and took Miller along as his assistant. That season they won the national championship .. 
Miller was instrumental in launching the Navy-Notre Dame football series, the na­tion's longest continuous intersectional rivalry, by getting Rockne and Ingram together. The teams will meet for the 65th consecutive year Nov. 2 in South Bend. 
Miller became the head coach at Navy in 1931 and in three seasons had a 12-15-2 record, but he had the distinc­tion of coaching the first Navy win over Notre Dame, 7-0 in 1933. 
He lost his job the following year when Navy returned to a system of hiring only former academy graduates as head coach. However, Miller re­mained as a line coach, a position he held for the next 14 years. 
In 1948, Miller was elevated to assistant director of athletics with responsibility for recruiting. He retired in 1974. 
Saints enjoying perks of 5-0 start 
NEW ORLEANS {AP) -The biggest attraction in the French Quarter on Tuesday wasn't St. Louis Cathedral, the flower­draped balconies or the horse­drawn buggies. 
It was the New Orleans Saints who were drawing a crowd. 
Linebackers Mills and Pat Swilling, offensive lineman Stan Brock and Coach Jim Mora were on the patio beside Cafe DuMond to be interviewed for HBO's "Inside The NFL" pro­gram. 
Murphy and several hundred camera-carrying, autograph­seeking, star-gazing fans circled the set to watch. 
"This really isn't my thing," Brock said as a crew member applied makeup and hair spray. "If we didn't have the off week, I wouldn't be here. The hardest part of all of this is keeping our heads on and keeping perspec­tive." 
For Brock, the Saints' No. 1 draft choice in 1980 -the year they went 1-15, keeping per­spective isn't hard. 
"We know all this attention can leave just as fast as it came. A ,few losses and people change," he said. 
For the Saints, people have changed. They've changed from long suffering fans to true-be­lieving fanatics. 
In 25 years of losing, b~ea~ing-even and recently wmmng, the Monday morning greeting in New Orleans has been 'How 'bout them Saints?" Over the years it's been uttered in despair, joy, and always hope. The city's love affair with the team, although strained, never broke. 
In 1980, when the Saints didn't win a game until Dec. 14, the fans donned paper bag masks but still attended games -averaging 48,227 at each home game. 
And there was always next year. 
This year, with the team 5-0, many people think "next year" has finally arrived. 
.. 
JOHN Ma'clEOD, 
JOHNNY BOY BIG JOHN THE JOHNSTER FAST·BREAK JOHN DR.J THE J. MAC BIG MAC MAD MAC MACKYWACKY MAC THE KNIFE THE MACSTER THE MICKSTER MICKY MICKEY MAN THE CLOUD MAN THE LOUD MAN THE PROUD MAN THE GLADIATOR HOnER THAN ARADIATOR MEANER THAN AN ALLIGATOR GATEKEEPER KEYMASTER MASTER BWTER LONGERWTER HE'S OUR MASTER 
COACH 


Suns' McDaniel dealt to Knicks 
PHOENIX (AP) -Xavier McDaniel was traded Tuesday by the Phoenix Suns to the New York Knicks for forward Jerrod Mustaf, guard Trent Tucker and two second-round draft picks. 
McDaniel, obtained from Seattle last Dec. 7, was ex­pected to strengthen the Suns at both ends of the court, but he did not provide the neces­sary muscle to help the team succeed in the playoffs. Phoenix, which won one more game '{55) in 1990-91 than it did the previous season, was ousted in the first round. 
The Suns reportedly were one of the preferred destina­tions of Patrick Ewing, the Knick's disgruntled center, but the 7 -foot All-Star did not fig­ure in the transaction. The sec­ond-round picks included in the deal are for 1992 and 1994. 
"I was shocked when I heard," McDaniel said. "I thought something might hap­pen, but I didn't know when. New York was one of the places I wanted to be traded to if I was traded." 
McDaniel averaged 15.8 points and 7.2 rebounds for the 
. Suns in 66 games. For the en­tire season, he averaged 17.0 points and 6. 9 rebounds and has career totals of 20.0 points and 7.0 rebounds. 
"I've been working on my X's and O's and we just took care of one of the X's," Knicks coach Pat Riley said. "It was a trade we had to make. We needed to complement the out­side shooting of Kiki Vandeweghe and bring in a post-up small forward. It's a great trade for the Knicks be­cause it brings in one of the best small forwards in the league, a real front-line player." 
"We are pleased to obtain a quality young power foward," Fitzsimmons said of the 6-foot­10 Mustaf, 21. 
Mustaf, the 17th overall pick in the 1990 college draft, en­tered the draft as an under­graduate after two years of college ball at Maryland. He av­eraged 4.3 points and 2.7 re­bounds for the Knicks in 62 games last season. 
The 6-5 Tucker, known for his 3-point marksmanship, spent all of his. nine years in the NBA with New York, which drafted him sixth in the nation in 1982. 
hWatch ~~our hands!'' ~~watch your mouth!'' 
-
Guatemalan 

Imports •Vests •Shirts •Hooded Bajas •Fanny Packs •Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hat~, belts, purses, barrett• & headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing & much, much more! Saint Mary's College Sept 30 • Oct 4 
10am-Spm Located In front of 
Haggar
WITH YOU THERE HE CAN WIN. BUY YOUR SEASON TICKETS NOW. 

·Rain Place: Haggar Game Room 
~ 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 2, 1991 
Irish women hope to ground Flyers SPDRlS BRIEFS 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will attempt to ex­tend its winning streak to four games, and remain undefeated when the Lewis Flyers visit Alumni Field this afternoon at 4 
p.m. It will be the fourth game of a five-game homestand for the Irish, who are coming off Sunday's 3-0 victory over Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
"Lewis is a good Division lil school," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said, "They will be motivated to play us." , 
Lewis is returning eight starters from last year's team, which was defeated by Notre Dame, 4-0. However, the Flyers did lose their top two scorers from 1990's squad. This season their offense is led by junior Laurie Anderson, who finished last year with three goals and three assists. 
Another big difference in this year's team is head coach Mike Crowe, who is in his first year at the helm of the Flyers. He replaced three-year coach Evan Fiffies. 
"It is going to be tough to get the team up because it is a mid-week game, and I don't know if our players know too much about Lewis," Petrucelli said, "However, if we play good technical soccer, we shouldn't have to get too excited." 
Petrucelli would like to ac­complish two things in today's game. With three games in the next five days, he would like to get as many people as possible in the game to avoid fatigue later in the week. Freshmen Kim Gold may get her second start in goal; her first was in the Irish's 11-2 win over Siena Heights last week. 
Another thing Petrucelli would like to see is the defense continue to counterattack ef­fectively. 
"I'd like to see [Irish sweeper] Gennifer [Kwiatkowski] get forward and into the attack more. She scored over 100 goals in high school, and I think she is capable of scoring a few for us," Petrucelli commented, "We have a lot of player who can score, and if we can add to that we will be even more dangerous." 
Colts fire Meyer 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Ron Meyer was fired as coach of the winless Indianapolis Colts today and replaced by defensive coordinator Rick Venturi. 
Meyer's dismissal came two days a,fter an embarrassing 31­3 loss to the Seattle Seahawks dropped the Colts to 0-5. 
-Colts general manager Jim Irsay said at a news conference that Venturi is the "head coach for the next eleven games." The 45-year-old Venturi, who coached at Northwestern from 1978-1981, joined the Colts in 1982 as linebackers coach. 
The Colts also fired offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach Leon Burtnett, who coached Purdue from 1982-86. 
Meyer was not at the news conference but made his com­ments in a parking lot at the Colts' offices. 
"I leave here with my head held high," he said. "The thing I'll miss is the relationship with the players. They're a great bunch of guys." 
Asked if he was dealt fairly, Meyer said: "Tha people outside to make judgment. My record itself. I'm a solid, hard-""'Pirm football coach, that's all I' say." 


•Public 
skating is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday. and Friday. 

•Saint 
Mary's varsity tennis team will begin tryouts Sunday, October 6 from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic facility. 

•Ski 
team /club will hold its second meeting this Thursday, 


October 3 at 8:30 in 118 Nieuwland. A $100 deposit will be taken from the first 90 people. Bring your checkbook. Questions. call Chris or Bob at 277-7089. 
•ND 
Hockey is looking for a keyboard players who would like to play during the game or pre-record songs for the upcoming hockey season. Interested? Call Coach Schafer at 239-5050. 

•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654-8345. 

•SMC 
Varsity Track meeting for all interested participants will be Wednesday, October 9 at 8 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 

•The 
results of the RecSports golf scramble: Womens-1) Jerri Lucas and Judy Hutchinson -95 2) Jean Humeston and JoAnn Bunnage -95 Mens-1) Chris Ohlmeyer and Chris Zulanus-69 2) Mark Kiskorna and Jim Kavada-71. 



Thursday, October 3, 1991 THEODORE'S Exhibit:· 4:00 -7:00 P.M. Discussion: 7:00 P.M. VANESSA DURGANS 
Sponsorul6y: !Multicultural~wtivt Councif 


page15

Wednesday, October 2, 1991 
The Observer 
JAY HOSLER

CALYlf AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON SPELUtiCER 
GARY LARSON
TtEFARSIDE 

W\.\fl.i'S 'f.IQ:().IG W\it\ Thr-.T" 
~()..) CDJlD CJ\1(.\-\ PN't..\J\.\()-1\~. RU~ W 
ll. m!R\Blt IWIThl B\\l., ll~ fl.. fHJ MOt{MS, i\N\) m:.. 
\ 
Where the deer and the antelope work 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 



ACROSS 
1 Writer Kingsley 5 Oates book 9 Arledge of TV 
14 Like Pat Ewing 15 Had on 16 MISStep 17 Vegetable-oil 
derivative 18 Horned goddess 19 Chaney's 
"thousand" 20 COLUMBUS 23 Top of the head 24 Aficionado's 
shout 48 Camelot title 49 Converse idly 51 COLUMBUS 58 Audibly 59 Antelope's 

playmate 60 Variable star 61 Finish second 62 Underpinnings 63 Partner of 
Currier 64 Discussions 65 Fencing piece 66 Penny 
DOWN 
1 Bit 2 The former French Sudan 3 "-Three Lives" 
4 Variety of softball 5 Checker's 
dance 6 Threw a party 7 Clapton or Idle 8 Table mountain 9 Second drink 
10 Speechify 11 Killer whale 12 Coward 13 Sounds of 
hesitation 21 Canvas holder 22 Loose snow 
25 Display by a noted Surrealist 28 Speak like a Southerner 31 Prefix for light 34 Click beetle 36 Adding word 37 Danube tributary 38COLUMBUS 41 Egyptian cross 42 Home of the Keydets 43 Rest 44 Bandleader Brown 45 College V.IP.'s 47 Dealt with problems 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
"'!'!-'-:~~~~"-~ -=+-:~+=-! 
..:..:.L.:::.J...:J...::.J 


Wednesday 

12:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Festival, Culture on the Quad. Italian Club, Field House Mall. 
4:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Entertainment. Ballet Folklorico. Field House Mall. 7 p.m. "Teaching the Large Class" Prof. Gary Gutting NO­philosophy in 105 O'Shaughnessy. 7 p.m. "Teaching the Small Class," Marla Borelli NO­mathematics in 184 Nieuwland . 7 p.m. "Seeking Research Grants," Thomas Mueller NO­aerospace and mechanical engineering in 356 Fitzpatrick. 7 p.m. "Teaching the Small Class," Prof. Frank Bonello NO-economics in 105A O'Shaughnessy. 
7 p.m. "Reception and Presentation for all ChEg, ME,EE students" Lever Brothers in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 

Noon. "Fireside Chats," John Kennedy, Multi-Cultural FaU Festival, ISO Lounge, LaFortune Student Center. 
4 p.m. Lecture: "Northern Ireland: The Last Twenty Years :md a Look Into the Future." Jay Dolan and Paul Gargan. t\uditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
4:20 p.m. Lecture: "T-Invariance Violation," LB. Khriplovich, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Jloom 118, ~ieuwland Science Hall. 
10 p.m. "Presence and Proclamation: Lectors Orientation Workshop." Sacred Heart Church. James O'Rourke and Kate 
~ullivan. 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cantonese BBQ Ribs Monte Carlo Baked Whitefish w/Herbs Pinata Casserole Swiss Steak Fresh Veg. Pasta Noodles Romanoff Deli Bar 
25 Transfer picture 35 Electronically 50 Silver or 26 Make parallel produced echo Champion 27 Frolics 37 Low in tension, 51 Pot for paella 
29 Arrested as muscles 52 Mine find 30 Raggedy doll 39 Miss Hogg 53 Periphery 31 Boy Scout 54 Bring in the 
40 Beatles' "­
harvestgroup 
Work It Out" 
32 From bad to 55 Move aimlessly 
45 Rectifiers 
56 Uniform 33 Readied the 57 Bridge position 
46 Secret plan 
presses 481n a rut 58 Well phrased 

Backdraft
Come see Lean on Me Thursday October 3rd Friday Oct. 4th 
8:00 and 10:30 P.M. 7:30 and 10:30 P.M. Cushing Auditorium Saturday Oct. 5th $2.00 for Admission Cushing Auditorium 
$2.00 for Admission 

-
Also don't miss Joe Clark "Fight One More Round" (The man who Lean on Me was based on.) Coming to Stepan Center October lOth 


, 
Tickets at Lafortune Info Desk 

STUDENT UNION BOARD
$3.00 for Students I $5.00 for Non-Students 

page 16 Wednesday, October 2, 1991 
Sports

• 
Men's soccer blanks Detroit 

By JASON KELLY 
leg injury, collected the rebound Sports Writer from Brendan Dillman's shot to record his first career goal. giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. How well the Notre Dame Richardson launched a shot to men's soccer team fares on its the far post from 12 yards out current road trip will depend on an assist from Rey Prado to largely on how the freshmen complete Notre Dame's offen­
respond to the challenge of sive output, which included 16 playing on the road. If Tuesday shots on goal. afternoon's performance at Stifling defense was a key Detroit is any indication, the once again for the Irish as they Irish should be very successful allowed the Titans only two on the road. Tim Oates shots on goal, giving Bader the 
Freshmen Tim Oates, Tont support he needed to collect his Richardson and Jean Joseph to be quite a threat to the fourth shutout of the season. each notched a goal and rookie youthful Irish squad. On the opening leg of their goalie Bert Bader, who was first extended road trip, the rarely threatened due to the That wasn't the case, how­freshmen lived up to the chal­
play of the Irish defense, col­ever, as the Irish offense shelled 
lenge and the Irish came away lected his fourth shutout of the the Titans from the opening with a victory. They will have season in a 3-0 rout of kickoff. Detroit managed to to continue to live up to the Midwestern Collegiate resist the shelling until Oates challenge in order for the Irish Conference rival Detroit. With knocked in his team-leading to continue their success on the just over a third of the season third goal of the season from road. completed, Bader's four eight yards out with less than a The road trip continues shutouts equals Notre Dame's minute remaining in the first Friday night in Cincinnati in 
overall shutout total from a half. Soon after Oates put the another MCC battle with Xavier. year ago. The victory improved Irish on the board, Detroit's A visit to Dayton's Baujan Field the Irish record to 3-3-1 overall Matt Marske was ejected from is on the slate for Sunday be­and 1-1-1 in the MCC. the game, giving the Irish a fore a trip to Valparaiso next 
one-man advantage the rest of 
Wednesday completes the road 

Despite coming off a disap­the way. swing. The next Irish home pointing 3-14-0 campaign in 1\venty minutes into the sec­game is scheduled for Sunday, 1990, the Titans returned 15 ond half, Joseph, just two October 13th against MCC foe lettermen this season promised games after returning from a Butler. 


The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Chicago State yesterday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Belles smash Chicago State 

By EILEEN McGUIRE the upper hand. 
Sports Writer "Our serve reception broke down and therefore we dug ourselves into a hole we could 
Division I Chicago State not get oilt of," Shroeder-Biek 
University was no match for explained. 
Saint Mary's volleyball team as Junior captain Karen Lorton the Belles handily defeated contributed 20 blocks, 13 digs, Chicago State 15-4, 13-15, 15-and 11 kills as junior Michelle 
2. 15-11 last night at Angela Martino chipped in 23 assists. Athletic Facility. "As a team, we 
"This game helped a lot in communicated better and terms of confidence," Belles played a better defence than we 
-
coach Julie Shroeder-Biek had been playing," Lorton said. stated. "We communicated well "We had bad games over the as a team and everybody got in weekend but this proves we can to play." go out and play up to our The Belles, definitely the ability." or stronger team, dominated the The Belles' next encounter 
floor in all-around ability. will be against Illinois However, in the second game, Benedictine College at Illinois Saint Mary's neglected to show on Friday. 
Stanford is just another game for Irish 
By DAVE DIETEMAN game. coin and defer, we will take thP 
Sports Editor The Irish, however, held out ball. If we win the toss and hope, and coultl have won the defer and they take the ball. we game, had not Derek Brown will defend either the end zone 
If you think that Notre Dame been unable to snatch up a we warmed up in, or the end is heading to Stanford bent on Rick Mirer pass in the end zone that they warmed up in." avenging last year's 36-31 loss zone. Despite 21 years of diligence, in South Bend, think again. • • • however, Holtz n~lived that in­
Where Lou Holtz and the Several Irish players are still cident in West Lafayette last Irish are concerned, their game licking their wounds from the Saturday.with the Cardinal is significant season's first four games. "I guess that Derek Brown for one reason: the Irish must Troy Ridgely is expected to and Devon McDonald went out 
come away with a victory if return to practice this week. there, and Devon was the they are to win the rest of their Todd Stoker, who has been out spokesman," said Holtz. games. of action since last April, is also "Purdue won the toss of the 
"'You won't get ahead of any­expected to return. coin and they deferred and he body if you try to get even with Rodney Culver and Aaron chose to kick and they chose them," said Holtz. "Revenge Taylor are both playing with the end zone they wanted. I doesn't factor in at all on my sprained ankles, but may see said 'We did what?' I thought part, and I don't think it does action against Stanford. he was confused at first for the players as well. We "We have some bumps and because I thought he said 'They don't ever talk about revenge. bruises, but overall, aside deferred and we kick.' I said That was last year and that's Adrian Jarrell breaking his 'Wait. We deferred or they over no matter what you do. I arm last week and Rod Culver's deferred?' He said 'They think that you have got to look ankle, I think we ought to be in deferred.' So I said 'Are we forward to the future. This pretty good physical condition receiving the ball?' He said game's important-it's impor­for the game." 'No. We're kicking the ball.' tant to us because of the fact • • • "And what was scary was he that we have some goals and For those who did not see or was real excited about it. He objectives this year. hear Notre Dame's game was rather proud of it. I 
"But last year is history. We against Purdue, and for those started to get upset but I patted just don't ap{Jroach it that way who did, there is a humorous him on the back and said 'Hey,[from revenge]. Sure, we'd like story involving the coin toss. you better go out there and 
to win the football game-you For Holtz, it was the first oc­play well on defense and get don't want anybody to beat you currence of such an incident this off to a good start.' At twice in a row, you don't want since his days at William and halftime I joked with him about anybody to beat you once, Mary. At that time, teams were it. It's one of those things that though. But that's something not permitted to defer their happened. I wasn't very clear, that we don't even think much choice until the second half. obviously, in my instructions to about, at least I don't. My main William and Mary's team cap­them." concern-and I think it's the tain, however, when told that • • • players' as well-is how we're the other team had, after win­Finally, as Notre Dame stands going to win the football game. ning the coin toss, elected to at 3-1 a third of the way, Holtz We're going to play awfully receive, himself elected to kick. looked back on 'his pre-season well, and we're going to play William and Mary, then, had wishes of where the Irish an awfully fine football game. I to kick off into the wind. The would be at this point. don't know if we'll win this opposition, meanwhile, not "A third .of the way through, game, but we will play well." only was able to get the ball, we wanted to be 4-0, and we 
Last season, the Irish built a but the choice of which end aiso wanted Stanford to look 24-7 lead in the first half, only zone to defend. very poor on film," said Holtz, to see Stanford scramble to "and neither one of those have 
within 24-15 at the half, thanks Since that time, Holtz main­happened. But I can tell you to a disputed roughing the tains that he has strived to be this, after we were 1-1, we passer call on third and twelve. clear in his instructions to his wanted to go into Stanford 3-1. 
In the second half, the captains. We just have to try and get.Cardinal abused the Notre "I always instruct the people better. We have a lot of Dame defense for 21 more before they go out, and I in­problems. And we've solved a points. The Stanford shock struct them in front of the Jot of problems. We've started 
troops ended the day's scoring whole team," said Holtz. about six sophomores on when fullback Tommy Vardell "Every single week my decision defense. and we're going to be capped a four-touchdown per­is exactly the same. If we win a good defensive football team, 
formance by plunging into the the toss of the coin, we will and they've come along wayend zone with :36 left in the defer. If they win the toss of the but we still have a ways to go." 


