----~..., 
.-----------------------------------------~-----· --­


VOL. XXIII NO. 104 FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1991 
~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Allies sustain cease-fire; Kuwaitis detail atrocities 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) rape and kidnapping at the 
of U.S. and allied prisoners of pockets of Iraqi troops contin­-From the Euphrates to the hands of Iraqi troops who war. Iraq said it would return ued in mid-afternoon Thursday, Persian Gulf, U.S. and allied sacked their tiny nation in the prisoners. Associated Press correspondent troops held their fire along a seven months of occupation. "There's still great concern Neil MacFarquhar reported smoldering battlefront Thurs­"What I could tell you about about the next several days," from the field. The Iraqi units . day, weary, muddy but victori­the Iraqis," said optician Nizar White House spokesman Marlin involved had been bypassed in ous in a lightning war that freed Naccash. "I hate them from the Fitzwater said. Bush later an­the swift advance of allied Kuwait and humbled Iraq. inside of my blood." nounced the Iraqis had agreed forces. 
Statesmen began what Presi­Kuwaitis said thousands of to designate military comman­The commander of British dent Bush called "the difficult their countrymen, mostly young ders to discuss the cease-fire forces in the coalition, Lt. Gen. task" of securing the peace, and men, were taken off to Iraq as terms. Peter de la Billiere, said some
OPERATION

ordinary soldiers began a new hostages in the final days. The U.S. command reported Iraqi troops pinned down by countdown-for the trip home. Kuwait's U.N. ambassador put DESERT STORM some cease-fire violations Desert Storm forces appeared 
As a cease-fire dawned on the the number at 22,000, in addi­Thursday, including an incident "bewildered" by the standdown. 43rd day of the conflict, Ameri­tion to 8,632 Kuwaiti soldiers in which Iraqi gunners fired on "I think they're going to sit it can paratrooper David Hochins held prisoner by Iraq. • Battle graphic I page 6 troops of the U.S. XVIII Air­out until they run out of water had a warm vision of peace: The return of Kuwaiti de­• War criminals I page 6 borne Corps retrieving the bod­and food. Then they'll have to "My girlfriend, good friends and tainees was one demand set out • U.N. proposal/ page 7 ies of American airmen killed in surrender," he told reporters. 
good times." by President Bush in declaring a helicopter crash. The Ameri­Iraqi soldiers straggling north
• Peace lecture 1 page 7 

In Kuwait, meanwhile, they the cease-fire for midnight EST cans fired back and destroyed toward the southern Iraqi city 
began a sorrowful task, an ac­Wednesday -8 a.m. Thursday offensive against the Iraqi mili­two tanks and two multiple­of Basra were screened at counting of atrocity. in the gulf. tary if Baghdad does not meet rocket launchers, the command checkpoints by allied troops all the conditions, which also said.
Kuwaiti after Kuwaiti told The United States warned reporters of murder, torture, Thursday it might resume the include the "immediate" release Other isolated clashes with see PEACE I page 6 
Students ask for talks with SUFR members 
By KATE MANUEL a rash organization-there are News Writer precedents for everything," Vil­legas said. Meetings between SUFR SUFR is trying to improve, not 
members and small groups of destroy, current campus life, students would increase stu­said Villegas. The entire dent body support for and clear campus would benefit from a up student misconceptions general harassment policy that about SUFR, according to most could come from the more spe­students who participated in cific racial harassment policy forum Thursday with SUFR. which SUFR is currently seek­
The forum was sponsored by ing, he added. the Department of Anthro­"We hope that by our actions pology as a means of discussing it will be a catalyst for others' the concerns and demands success. We don't want to erode presented by SUFR. life on campus. We want to add 
Students have been seeking to it," he said, "But we pay to cultural and ethnic diversity on go here like other students and this campus since the 1960s, we don't feel we are getting but the administration has re­what we deserve." peatedly failed to address stu­SUFR can only speak for dent concerns, said Pedro Ville­those concerns with which it is 
gas, a SUFR member. familiar, but it is always recep­
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

Streak of sunshine 
"The tradition of trying to di­tive to being approached by versify this campus goes back a concerned students, said Ville-
Saint Joseph's Lake is illuminated by glittering rays of sunlight Thursday afternoon. Increasing tempera­
long way to 1968 ... SUFR is not
tures continue to remind wishful students that spring break looms in the near future. 
see SUFRI page 4 


GSU officer candidates debate wide range of issues 
By MEREDITH The ticket of Brooks and with few social appearances. Meyer focused on four main They added that it is the duty of
MCCULLOUGH 
objectives: finances, social the GSU "to provide the
News Writer 
events, the importance of opportunities for graduate teaching, and Notre Dame as a students to meet; it is up to the
Graduate student social life, Catholic university. During their students to take advantage ofthe Catholic character of Notre term, they hope to answer the those activities." The ticket
Dame, and financial issues question, "where is the proposes "more and better
were the chief topics debated graduate school going and how parties," but said that "for the
by the two tickets for the 
can it get there?" parties to be good, studentsGraduate Student Union (GSU) Though Brooks and Meyer have to attend them."
executive offices Thursday. 
feel that "nothing is more popu­Teaching is an intregal partThe election marks only the lar than to advocate raising the of being a graduate student,
second time that there has 
stipends for graduate stu­said Brooks and Meyer. Theybeen more than one ticket 
dents," they do not see it as the plan to make recommendations
competing for the position, primary focus of their cam­to let graduate students takeaccording to Edna Hidekel, 
paign. part in more teaching in ordercurrent GSU vice-president. 
According to this pair, the to gain sufficient experience. 
Outgoing GSU president, 
way the money received by de­Finally, the team presentedArsene Balihuta, explained the partments is used is the re­the view that since Notre Dameforum as a way to inform stu­sponsibility of the particular is a Catholic university, religion 
dents about the goals of the 
department and the individuals should be more emphasizedcandidates so they can choose a within it. They said, "We do both at the school and duringwise ticket who will "place our hope to be abl~ to raise the the hiring of new faculty.
priorities into the general pic­general allotment to the de­They stressed a concern thatture of the priorities of the uni­partments, on the understand­as the university makes a tran­versity." 
ing that once the money is re­sition to an "elite research uni­
Balihuta presented the 
ceived, the problem is ours only versity," the faculty must not controversy in the debate. They expressed their desire
participating tickets: Michael 
indirectly." forget its role as teachers in its The Mills and Slawner team to run "because the universityBrooks/Chris Meyer and Kurt Brooks and Meyers said that quest to publish. They see focused primarily on the role of makes decisions everydayMills/Karen Slawner. The can­they recognized a general feel­Christian goals and mission as the graduate student on the which will affect the rest of ourdidates began the debate by in­ing that graduate students a possible solution. This view Notre Dame campus and the lives; we feel it is vitallytroducing themselves and their 
spend much of their time was met by a skeptical tension that comes from being
platforms, then accepted q·ues­
see DEBATE I page 4

locked in labs and libraries audience and aroused both students and teachers.
tions from the audience. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
SMC students encouraged to get involved 
This is the last chance I will have to address to Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community. My term is over. My experience as Saint Mary's Editor has been exciting, rewarding, frustrating, and at times 

disappointing. Corinne Pavlis 
It has been exhilarating to be part of the news and Saint Marv's Editor events on my campus on a day-to-day basis. In an effort to diversify and increase Saint Mary's coverage the staff and I interacted with students, faculty from all departments, the administration, alumnae and members of the South Bend community. It was a great chance to really get to know the community I have been part of for almost four years. 
Although Saint Mary's coverage remains less than perfect, the entire Observer staff has worked intensely to better the coverage and representation Saint Mary's receives in the paper. 
Saint Mary's students, faculty, and admin­istrators have also taken an active role in the effort. I am grateful to everyone for all of the ideas and help I have received. 
The job also had some drawbacks. As with most jobs, you rarely get a response when people are happy with your work. But, when people are upset, they let you know. It's easy to get the feeling that everyone hates you. 
When either my staff or I make a mistake, it goes out to thousands of people in print. It was disappointing, during my last editorial board meeting, to learn of complaints voiced by members of the community concerning The Observer's coverage of the Saint Mary's elections. 
The real problem is that the complaints were completely accurate. I commend stu­dents' criticisms of the less than adequate coverage of the Saint Mary's elections. 
The positive side, I hope, is that students have come to expect better from The Observer. There are many students at Saint Mary's who take pride in their school and will not tolerate inadequate recognition. 
I hope these students will actively involve themselves in the numerous activities available. The Observer is just one such activity. 
"Chimes" literary magazine is another student publication open for involvement. There is a club or activity for every student. Also, every major has a club designed to en­courage academic and social interaction. Many other special interest, service/social action, ethnic, athletic, academic, and cul­tural organizations also exists. 
I hope that more people will get involved in these groups and that The Observer will continue to strive to cover them all in a pos­itive manner. 
I wish Emily Willett, my successor, all the luck in the world in her endeavor to encour­age involvement in and support for Saint Mary's coverage. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Thursday's  Staff  Production  
Jeanne Blasi  
News  Melissa Cusack  
Peter Loftus  Systems 

Siobhan McCarthy Chris Caracciolo Edouard Beauvais 

Accent 
Robyn Simmons 

Circulation 
Charmaine Martinez Bill O'Rourke 

Michelle Devers Matt Novak Paul Pearson 

ViewpointSports 
Michael Krause Ken Tysiac 
GraphicsScoreboard 
Steve Burgun Rolando de Aguiar Ann-Marie Conrado Michael Muldoon 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
~·~~~b··~~~~~'~~~~~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·u·~--~·~~-~-~-~-~-~-~­
Friday, March 1, 1991
The Observer 
Cloudy, breezy and mild Friday with afternoon showers and a high of middle 50s. Cooler. Saturday with highsi in middle 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H  L  
63  45  
64  36  
46  37  
42  26  
48  28  
65  46  
60  30  
41  22  
82  65  
65  53  
361  32  
50  41  
61  53  
59  39  
74  68  
37  30  
69  47  
45  32  
Paris  52  41  
Philadelphia  53  29  
Portland. Ore.  63  30  
Rome  64  48  
St. Louis  68  45  
57  53  
50  24  
63  45  
56  29  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

• VIENNA, Austna -At least 200 people were arrested in Albania after tens of thousands of demon­strators tore down statues of Stalinist dictator Enver Hoxha last week, an Albanian opposition leader said today. Arben Imami, a Democratic Party leader reached by telephone in Tirana, said that 170 to 200 people were arrested in the Albanian capital and another 70-80 in Korea. Some of those held apparently were beaten before being released, Imami said after meeting those concerned. An unknown number remain in detention, he said. 
NATIONAL 
OF INTEREST 
• Attention Campus Bands/DJs! Sign up now to be a part of the "Campus Entertainment Registry" in Student Activities. 315 LaFortune. Open only to those groups made up of members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. Call239-7308 for more info. 
• Freshman class ice skating. Saturday at the JACC 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 28, 1991  
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSE INDEX  _n_  
223.01 Million  200.70  v  0.04  


S&P COMPOSITE .fL 

348.08 v 1.21
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2,882·18 -!} 6.93 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD 'i} $5.70 to$ 367.40oz. 
SILVER 1J 17.7¢ to$ 3.729/oz. 
-~-~-~-·~:~.----~:~~-~------·__.._._._~_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_-_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_-_-_·_·~· 
but when I find out for sure everything is over with, I'll relax," she said. Three of her sons are in the Army, one is in the Army reserve, and one is in the Navy. Her sons joined the military largely to seek better lives than their low-income rural home offered, but they also discovered a sense of pride in serving their country, Mrs. Jurnett said. 
Keywitness dies in automobile crash 
• MIAMI -A key government witness who linked Manuel Noriega and two co-defendants to a shipment of cocaine died in a car crash before he got a chance to testify, officials said Thursday. Ramon Navarro, a con­fessed drug dealer to whom the government gave $170,000 and immunity in exchange for his cooperation, died when his car left the road and smashed into an electrical transformer Wednesday night, said Metro-Dade police spokesman Ralph Fernandez. Attorneys asked Thursday for time to consider mistrial motions. U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler denied a defense request for a mistrial. 
from 5 to 7:30 p.m. Free hot chocolate and doughnut holes will be served. 
• Cello recital this Sunday presented by graduate music student Carol Bullock at 2 p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art. Miss Bullock will play works by Haydu, Beethoven, Chopin, and Cassado. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1781 : The Articles of Confederation were adopted by the Continental Congress. 
• In 1864: Rebecca Lee became the first black woman to receive 
a medical degree, from the New England Female Medical College in Boston. 
• In 1954: An armed group of Puerto Rican nationalists, firing wildly from the gallery of the U.S. House of Representatives, wounded 
five congressmen. 

•In 
1961: President Kennedy established the Peat;e Corps. 

• 
In 1986: Adirective signed by President Reagan went into effect, making possible the execution of military people convicted of espionage during peacetime. 

• 
Ten years ago: Irish Republican Army member Bobby Sands began a hunger strike at the Maze Prison in Northern Ireland to 


-~~m~~~m~sb~h~~~~~~m.·•T·~·~·· 
-----------.-~-­
Friday, March 1, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Indiana census figures are undercounted, expert says 
INDIANAPOLIS {AP) -At least 35 Indiana communities should file appeals with the U.S. Census Bureau because they were undercounted, a state demography expert said. 
Jerry McKibben, of the Indi­anapolis-based Indiana Busi­ness Research Center, said the towns may have been under­counted in the last census be­cause of incorrect maps, cleri­cal errors or a lack of effort by census workers and elected ·of­ficials. 
"There is more than enough blame to go around," said McKibben, who works at the center's population studies of­fice. 
About 60,000 Hoosiers, out of the state's 5 million residents, were left out of ·the 1990 census, he said. 
McKibben said significant mistakes in counting heads were made in Cynthiana, Posey County; Owensville and Patoka in Gibson County; Montgomery and Plainville in Daviess County; French Lick and West Baden Springs in Orange County; Bicknell in Knox County; and Spurgeon and Petersburg in Pike County. 
He planned to meet with Petersburg and Bicknell offi­cials to help them prepare ap­peals, which must be filed by the end of March. 




ND Concert Band to stage annual spring performance 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Concert Band will present its annual spring concert March 19 at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
This performance is the cul­mination of the band's spring tour, which has included con­certs in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Indi­ana. The band is under the di­rection of Luther Snavely, who is in his fourth year as director of bands at Notre Dame, and Father George Wiskirchen, as­sistant director of bands. 
The concert program appeals to a wide variety of musical tastes, including marches, show tunes, overtures, selections from big bands and patriotic music. Soloists are Tim Zifer, 
FREE TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHAS~ 
ready and stock up for Spring Brea 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 
EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY .. 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC.. STATE RD. 23 UNIVEilSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 

trumpet soloist playing "Bride the Texas Music Educator's As­of the Waves" by Clarke; Lori sociation and an outstanding Amada, french horn soloist teacher award from the Uni­playing "Concerto No. 1 in E­versity of Mississippi's music flat Major" by Strauss; Cason department. Duke, trombone soloist playing Wiskirchen is a graduate of "Annie Laurie" by Pryor; and Notre Dame and Northwestern Bryan Miller, trumpet soloist University. He was ordained a playing "Carnival of Venice" by priest in the Congregation of Arb an. Holy Cross in 1955 and re­
Snavely was director of bands turned to NO in 1972 as assis­at the University of Mississippi tant director of bands, director for 16 years before coming to of brass ensembles and director Notre Dame in June of 1987. He of jazz bands while also serving is a graduate of Baylor Uni­as the coordinator of the Notre versity, Vandercook College of Dame Festival of Brass and Music and the University of faculty advisor for the Texas. Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Active as an adjudicator and Amada received a degree guest conductor throughout the from the Curtis Institute of Mu­country, Snavely has been sic in Philadelphia. She also honored with the Leadership participated in music programs and Achievement Award from at the University of Ten-
HOUSES FOR RENT 1991-1992 SCHOOL YEAR 
Super landlords Inexpensive 
5 and 6 bedrooms Security Systems 
3 houses left Close to campus 
CaU Flynn,s Rentals 289-6621 
nessee/Knoxville and IUSB in South Bend. Amada was princi­pal horn in the Knoxville Sym­phony and currently appears with the South Bend Symphony and is principal horn in the Lake Forest Symphony in Illi­nois. 
Cason Duke did his under­graduate work in music at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga, and also spent a year at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. He is pursuing a Master's De­gree in trombone performance and literature at Notre Dame and is a member of Mu Phi Ep­silon, a professional music fra­ternity. 
Miller is a graduate of North­ern Illinois University where he received a bachelor's degree in music education and trumpet performance. While at NIU, Miller played in the NIU Jazz Ensemble and was a drum ma­jor of the Huskie Marching Band. He directs Second Jazz Band at Notre Dame. 
Zifer is pursuing a master's degree in performance and lit­erature at Notre Dame. He re­ceived his undergraduate music degree from Ohio University. Zifer is also a member of the professional music fraternity Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, Alpha Kappa chapter. 
The Notre Dame Concert Band was founded in 1845 and is in its 145th year of continu­ous service to the University. The group has toured annually since 1945, performing in 42 states and more than 500 cities. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
RESEARCH
~~­
WORKSHOPS 
$ $ Money $ $
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
$ How To Get It! $ In Natural Sciences/Engineering &
AND 

Social Sciences/Humanities Monday, March 4th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 
1 hr. general session and 1 hr. discussion groups 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN 
LAFORTUNE 
-
~

•
APPLICATION DEADUNE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 

' 

page4 The Observer Friday, March 1,1991 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
important that graduate students be heard and participate in the decision­making process." 
The pair stressed involve­ment, dealing with the adminis­tration, and the place of the graduate student. 
Mills spoke first and ex­pressed his desire that gradu­ate students, GSU officers as well as others, become involved. He said they are open to suggestion, comments and proposals, for "without an increase of the graduate students' support, we can't go to the administration and say we represent them." 
Unlike Brooks and Meyer, he said they see funding as a ma­jor issue. He said they will "work to ensure that this [stipend] level is adequate to meet the needs of graduate students" as well as try to in­crease summer funding "either in the form of fellowships or assistantships." 
According to Mills, they hope to gain more support for stu­dents' professional develop­ment by increasing training for teachers. Their plans include improved departmental pro­grams or a university teaching 


__-=::..:.:..:~~~.....w.;;:L__ _._J 
center. "This would benefit not only graduate students, but un­dergraduates as well who are taught by graduate students." 
As for issues that directly concerned graduate students, the team dealt with ideas such as: helping in the process of re­vising du Lac to address the is­sue that graduate students are responsible for themselves; finding a permanent social space for students; establishing a woman's center; and address­ing the fact that half of Notre Dame graduate students are not Catholic. 
Both of the tickets expressed concern for the issue of day­care. Brooks and Meyer pro­posed a subsidized daycare center that is affordable to graduate students. Mills and Slawner recognize the problems involved in daycare and hope for a "creative" system "whether university sponsored or by a cooperative of students, and possibly faculty... 
The two tickets also shared the feeling that their success as GSU president and vice-presi­dent depends upon the gradu­ate students themselves. Ac­cording to Mills and Slawner, "there is a fine line between annoying people and getting them involved." Brooks and Meyer added, "we can't force anyone to be interested." 
GUITARS -AMPS 

CRATE • ALVAREZ-YAMAHA WESTONE -TAYLOR 

. The Observer/Elisa Klosterman Anthro~Iogy professor J~mes 8eIIIS and SUFR member Pedro Villegas discussed the positive force of group d1scuss1ons to help Increase student body awareness of prejudice at a forum Thursday. 
SUFR 
continued from page 1 
gas and fellow SUFR member Corey Collins. 
"I think the interest is there, but we can only speak for what we know," Collins said. 
SUFR is not an exclusive, 
-LESSONS 
241 DIXIE WAY N-US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( St. Mary's College Roseland 


MON-FRI. 12:00 NOON-6 pm CALL for SAT. hours 
I 212-1s1o I 
DICK W1SNER -OWNER 

The College of Engineering 
Freshman Year of Studies 
ana 
Year of Women sponsor and spotlight 
Eleanor Baum 
Dean of the Albert Nerkin School of Engineering The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Arts 
"Diversity in the Work Force: The Challenge of Engineering" 
Sunday,· March 3 7:00PM Library Auditorium 
All cordially invited to attend Reception follows in Library Lounge 
separatist group, said Villegas. He said, "If we were separatist, we would not be here." 
James Bellis, chairman of the Department of Anthropology, pointed out that SUFR has raised some problematic larger issues. 
One such issue is the distinc­tion between cultural diversity and subcultural harassment in society. Another is that of se­mantics, Bellis added. 
"How can we teach about dif­ferent cultures when we run out of adjectives?" Bellis asked. 
Despite the problematic na­ture of the issues SUFR has raised, Bellis told SUFR mem­bers, "You're raising issues that are valuable to all of us." 


HAPPY 
21ST 
BIRTHDAY 
MIKE! 
... --·_L • 
LOVE,

: liii1i: 
MOM,

* •*•.J... 
I~EER DRI\1-JK.\ DAD,& 
01· .\.\IEHIC\ I' \ H I 1 • ' \1 \ I\ I 
MERI 

AMERICAN EXPRESS" 
Gold Card 
PRESENTS IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE BCL GROUP 
AUL 









SIMON 
"BORN AT 

THE RIGHT TIME" 
WITH FEATIJRED SOLOIST 

MICHAEL BRECKER APRIL 16,-7:30 P.M. 

Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the INFORMATION DESK LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *Deadline for applications is March 29* 


NOTRE DAME JOYCE CENTER 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $22.50 
TICKETS ON SALE 
TOMORROW 10:00 A.M. JOYCE CENTER BOX OFFICE plus ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
TO CHARGE BY PHONE: 
1-800-359-8383 
NO ONE TO ARRIVE AT JACC BEFORE 7:00A.M. 
DRAWING FOR POSITION IN TICKET UNES AT.8:00 A.M. 
•IJt_ 


-----------------------------------------------~~--~·----­
Friday, March 1 , 1991 The Observer page 5 
NO received $2.8 million in research grants in Jan. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $2,855,746 in grants during January for the support of re­search and various programs. Research funds totaled $2,366,176, including: 
•$301,358 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by George Craig, Clark professor of biological sciences, on vector competence for LaCrosse virus in Aedes mosquitoes. 

•$224,122 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Howard Saz, professor of biological sciences, on intermediary metabolism of helminths. 

•$213,327 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pesold professor of biochemistry, on blood co­agualtion protein-metal ion­lipid interactions. 

•
$18 7,000 from the National Science Foundation for fast beams research by Stephen Lundeen, professor of physics. 

•$132,952 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, on growth and ordering of semiconductors. 

•$118,000 
from Purdue Uni­versity for research also by Furdyna on semiconductors. 

•$111,954 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Bruce Bunker, 


associate professor of physics, on studies of semiconductor microstructure. 
•$105,000 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Albin Szewczyk, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on bluff body wake flows. 

•$98,638 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Frederick Goetz Jr., professor of biological sciences, on phosphotidylinositol, protein kinase C and ovulation. 

•$88,200 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, Tomasz Giebultowicz, associate faculty fellow in physics, and others on neutron scattering in diluted magnetic semiconduc­tors. 

•$87
,807 from the U.S. Navy for research by Steven Skaar, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on camera-based manufacturing control. 

•$80,000 
from the U. S. Navy, for research by Thomas Mueller, chairman and Roth­Gibson professor of aerospace engineering, on rotors with variable flow conditions. 

•$79,992 
from the U.S. Navy for studies of ordering ternary and multinary semiconductors by Kathie Newman, associate professor of physics. 

•$71 
,000 from the National Science Foundation for re-




e • THE RisE AND FALL OF I SMAll1M FOITUIIE Coou FlaOIY 
Z WED., FEB. 27-S.u., MARrn 2 8:10PM 
.... SUN., MARCH 3 3:10PM 
~ WASHINGTON HALL 
Spon.",,..,._, h) An 'hd­
Wl-st m.,mhc:"' ;llld 
fn...n.J, in p;ll1n<·r-hip 

.. 
Wilh lh" -.;~lione~l l'n· ~o.lo\\ ll\(.'1\1 It •r the.: Art., ~nu spc..·..:ial as...i...l~tnc.:l· from Hu<L.,.>n''· 


search by Paul Helquist, chair­man and professor of chemistry, on new methods in organometallic and synthetic organic chemistry. 
•$65,424 
from Amoco Chemi­cal Research Center for re­search by Charles Kulpa Jr.,associate professor of bio­logical sciences, on degradation in anaerobic films. 

•$64,979 
from the NASA­Lewis Research Center for re­search by Ken Sauer. assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Peter Bauer, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, on sub­band/transform compression of video sequences. 

•$60,000 
from Purdue Uni­versity for research on super­conductivity by Paul McGinn, assistant professor of electrical engineering. 

•$59,290 
from Newmont Metallurgical Service for re­search by Charles Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biological sciences, on microbial treatment of ores. 

•$50,000 
from Raymond Cash for cretaceous/tertiary research by J. Keith Rigby Jr., associate professor of earth sciences. 

•$35,245 
from the Texas Engineering Experiment Station for research by Ahsan Kareen, professor of civil engineering, on wind effects on tension leg platforms. 

•$35,000 
from International Business Machines for air­cooled heat sink research by Victor Nee, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical 



................ , ........ ,.,. ...... ..... , ....
: 
engineering. 
•$30,21 
0 from the Texas Engineering Experiment Station for research by Joannes Westerink, assistant professor of civil engineering, on turbu­lent flow modeling with certain solutions. 

•$25,000 
from International Business Machines for research by Victor Nee, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on breathing cool­ing technology. 

•$24,200 
from Lilly Endow­ment Inc. for an open faculty fellowship for Stephen Fred­man, associate professor of English. 

•$5,000 
from Chevron Re­search Co. for research by Mark McCready, associate professor of chemical engineering, on capillary effects in gas liquid flows. 

•$4,
732 from the National Science Foundation for a re­search experience for under­graduates supplement, headed by David Leighton Jr., assistant professor of chemical engineer­ing. 

•$3,188 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Marvin Miller, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on drugs and delivery systems for opportunistic infections. 

•$2,
776 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Subhash Basu, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on glycolipid metabolism in normal and pathological tissues. 

•$1,782 
from the National 



John P. O'Malley
Sales Represelfative New Memberships or Transfers 
tu.•••· ....... Auto &Property Insurance CHICAGO Hertz &Avis Car Reatals 
MOTOR W-(HICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
CLUB 5922 Grape Road 
ladJaa Ridge Plaza Mishawaka, ladiaaa 46545 219/277-5790 RES:219/21S·0980 Please ask for Jo~• O'Malley 
IRISH GARDENS 
needs a few good people to fill the positions of 
MANAGER 
and 

ASST. MANAGER 
Please stop by the store in the 
Tfi. h 

basement of LaFortune for an

Gaf~ens 

application and job description. 
All students are eligible. · 
THE CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
HOLINESS AND PSYCHOLOGICAL INTEGRITY 
Holiness and integrity are outcomes (and not two different outcomes) that result when one develops a Christian identity, an identity that is forged in the pursuit of vocations that participate in the redemptive work of God. 
Daniel Lapsley is Assistant Professor of Psychology. He received his doctorate from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. His special interests have come to focus on adolescent development, especially in the general areas of self, ego and identity development and in moral psychology. He is the co-author, with Clark Power (PLS program) of Self. Ego and Identity: Integra­tive Approaches and Moral Education in a Plural­istic Society. The latter book will be published by Notre Dame Press. He is presently working on a book entitled Moral Psychology to be published by 
W.C.Brown. 
-

Sunday, March 3 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. 
OFFKJOF 
Keenan·Stanford Chapel 
CAMPUS 
MNISTRY 

...... -, ..... , ............. ··~····· 
Institutes of Health for research by Malcolm Fraser Jr., associate professor of biological sciences, on transposon mutagenesis of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses. Awards for facilities and equipment included two robots and two controllers from Delco Electric Corp. for research by Michael Stanisic, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. Awards for instructional programs totaled $342,487, including: 

•$257
,369 from the U. S. De­partment of Education for the Upward Bound program, ad­ministered by Roland Smith Jr., director of the Center for Edu­cational Opportunity, and Dorine Blake-Smith, assistant professional specialist and di­rector of Upward Bound, 

•$81,618 
from the National Science Foundation for the electronic design automation workshop, administered by John Uhran Jr. and Eugene Henry, professors of electrical ­engineering. 


•$3,500 
from the Food and Drug Law Institute for a food and drug law course, adminis­tered by Capt. William McLean, professor of law. Awards for service programs totaled $105,476 from private benefac­tors for various programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. Awards for other programs totaled $41,607 from the Federal Highway Administration for an assistance program adminis­tered by James Taylor, profes­sor of civil engineering. 


S. Korea's 
leader sees unification 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ­

President  Roh  Tae-woo  
predicted  Friday  that  the  
division  of  the  Korean  

peninsula would end in three or four years, paving the way for national unification. 
"The walls are coming down," Roh told a national television audience. 
He said that by the time the peninsula marks a half century of partition, in 1995, there will be no division. In the past, Rob has predicted the Koreas would be made one by century's end. 
He offered no explanation for the prediction. Nor did he suggest there were particular signs of improvement in tense relations with North Korea. 

The two Koreas have held sporadic dialogue on easing military and political tensions, but have made little progress. North Korea called off a fourth round of high level talks that was to have been held this week. 
The president's remarks came on a national holiday marking Korea's fight for independence from Japanese colonial rule, which ended in 1945. 

American Heart c•a 
Association ~ 

----.~~~~~-­
Ffiday, March 1, 1991


OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 6 
Allied forces search for war criminals 
(AP) -Allied forces are screening Iraqis heading home in a search for suspected war criminals responsible for a reign of terror in the last days of Iraqi rule over Kuwait, mili­tary officials said Thursday. 
British tanks were parked astride the main northbound highway leading from Kuwait to the southern Iraq city of Basra, and U.S. Marines manned roadblocks outside Kuwait City itself, they said. 
The checkpoints were up and functioning hours after Presi­dent Bush declared a cease-fire early Thursday, suspending the war with Iraq. The haste re­flected allied anger over re­ports that Iraqi soldiers mur­dered, raped and mutilated citi­zens before abandoning the Kuwaiti capital. 
"Anybody moving along that road is being screened because we're particularly interested, if possible, in picking up anybody who's been involved in the atrocities in Kuwait City," Lt. Gen. Sir Peter de la Billiere, the commander of British Forces, told a news briefing. 
"Any Iraqi coming up there will be a prisoner of war and, subsequent to that, will be in­terrogated to find out whether he's got anything to answer or not." 
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, the U.S. com­mander, told reporters a day earlier that any suspects caught would be classified as enemy prisoners of war, "but the ultimate disposition of those people . . . might be quite different than the way we treat any other prisoner of war." 
Marine Brig. Gen. Richard Neal, the chief spokesman for the U.S. Command, said Iraqis were being checked with help from members of the Kuwaiti resistance, who had prepared lists of suspected war crimi­nals. 
Neal said those not under suspicion could head north and keep their weapons as long as they showed no intent to use them. 
Asked if that meant Iraqis could take tanks through checkpoints, Neal said: "I don't want to get into the specifics of it." Under persistent question­ing, he suggested the issue was unimportant. 
"These guys are defeated," he said. "There aren't any tanks rolling around out there. They've already made their breaks back to Basra." 
Neal said the allies estimated about 40,000 Kuwaitis had been picked up by the Iraqis since August. 
Allied military officials said the cease-fire was holding de­spite a few violations. 

GROUND WAR: STEP BY STEP 
OCCUPYING FORCE: 545,000 Iraqis in Kuwait 
BUILDUP: U.S. positions the 101st and 82nd Airborne divisions. 24th Mechanized Infantry and 3rd Armored Calvary behind Saudi Arabian task force 
GROUND FORCES BLUFF: Allied forces are aligned opposite Iraqi positions in Kuwait so that it appeared they planned to attack the Iraqi positions directly. The Iraqis build an extensive barrier on the border and along the east coast of Kuwait. 
Feb. 23, 1991: Before the Storm 
The allied strategy in the war relied on two feints: 
0 Athreatened amphibious assault on the Kuwaiti coast. Purpose: Force the Iraqis to deploy their forces along the coast -which they did. 
8 Alast-minute shift of vast numbers of allied soldiers to the west, allowing them to enter Iraq west of the dug-in Iraqi forces. The Iraqis are unaware of this movement because their air force had been 
put out of action. 
4:00 A.M. LOCAL nME: 
01st and 2nd Marine Divisions launch attacks through the barrier system, accompanied by the U.S. Army Tiger Brigade of the 2nd Armored Division.8 French 6th Armored Division, accompanied by U.S. units, launch an overland attack to the As Salman airfield. 0Two Saudi task forces breach the Iraqi border defenses and continue attacking up the east coast 
8:00A.M.: 
8101st Airborne launches an assault deep into enemy territory to establish aforward operating base. 
AFTERNOON:
0 Diversionary Pan-Arab and Saudi attacks. 
0 U.S. 24th Mechanized Division crosses the border. 
8 U.S. Vllth Corps, 1st and 3rd Army Divisions and 2nd Cavalry Division cross the border. 
0 U.S. 1st Infantry Division and British 1st Armored Division cross the border. SPECIAL FORCES: had been sent deep into enemy territory to observe. 
Feb. 25-26: Tightening the Vise 
0 Saudis c~ntinue up the eastern flank. 
8 Saudi and Arab forces turn towards Kuwait City. 
0 British unit continues to attack. 
8 U.S. Vllth Corps sweeps eastward toward the Republican Guard. 
0 24th Infantry Division moves into the Tigris and Euphrates valley and blocks the only escape route for retreating Iraqi units.0 The French set up aflanking position to prevent Iraqi forces from entering from the west. 
Feb. 27: Claiming Kuwait 
Oxvlllth Airborne Corps forms solid wall across north, attacking due east. 
8 Vllth Corps also attacks due east 
0 Arab forces from both the west and the east close in on Kuwait City. 
8 1st Marine Division continues to hold Kuwaiti International Airport. 
0 The 2nd Marine Division blocks all exits from Kuwait City. 
Feb. 23, 1991 
IRAN 
Iraqi units with 75% of 
strerJgth remaining _ ­

-
Iraqi units with SG-75% of strength remainmg -­

Persia• Allied bombing had Suit
SAUDI 
weakened Iraqi units dug in

ARABIA 
on the front lines to 50% or ,....,_._~ below !""-~....,.-._;;:,:,~~ 
., 
• If 
50 miles 

50km Set up along Kuwaiti border 

AP/Karl Tate 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
looking for members of units suspected of atrocities in Kuwait. 
More information emerged Thursday on the human cost of the war. 
The Saudi ambassador to Washington said an estimated 85,000 to 100,000 Iraqi soldiers were killed and wounded as their army was shattered in 37 days of air bombardment followed by four days of ground war. Some 80,000 Iraqis are prisoners. 

The U.S. command said the American casualty toll for the war stood at 79 killed in action, 212 wounded in action and 45 missing in action. An additional 52 Americans are listed as non­combat deaths, and nine are known to be prisoners of war. 
The Saudis reported 44 of their soldiers killed in action, and the British 15. 
Along the battlefront Thurs­day, allied units were busy blowing up Iraqi tanks and other weapons abandoned in the Iraqis' headlong flight. Although the aerial bombing ceased, the allies also continued reconnaissance flights over Iraqi territory. 
The fury of the final days could be seen Thursday on the Kuwait-Basra road, jammed with the broken, burned-out hulks of scores of vehicles ­both army trucks and com­mandeered civilian automobiles -in which Iraqi soldiers tried to flee north, only to be caught· in air strikes. 
The campaign's climactic bat­tle exploded in the Iraqi desert west of KuwaH on Tuesday, when forward elements of a giant U.S.-British armored force collided with the Republican Guard, heart of the Iraqi army. 
After a 2 1/2-day dash across the trackless desert in sand­storms and heavy rains, the 
U.S. 3rd Armored Divison and other units swept in behind Guard positions and caught the Iraqis as they tried to withdraw northeasterward, toward Basra. 
Associated Press correspon­dent Fred Bayles, riding with the 3rd Armored, reported that the U.S. MlAl tanks and Bradley Fighting Vehicles swarmed over Iraqi tank units in scattered clashes that raged on through Wednesday. 
The Americans said they found the Iraqi tankers disor­ganized, without apparent leadership or battle plan, Bayles reported. Both the American troops and equipment won praise from U.S. commanders, especially the TOW anti-tank missiles. 




~---·~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
.. .. 4"­






HOME ® GUEST 
E OFTH~ EEK 

Celebrate Notre Dame Basketball Victories with Domino's Pizza "Game ofthe Week" Savings. Evcrytime Notre Dame wins you can get 112 offyour order at Domino's Pizza. 


Employment Opportwrlties Available. 
PARTY SPECIAL : I TWO TOPPER SPECIAL: GAME OF THE WEEK I 
SPECIAL 

I Get four Large Cheese pizzas $I 9 9 Get an Original Medium pizza Get 112 off the regular price of llJJ2 ' 
I for $17.99. Only $1.80 per with your two favorite toppings $ 99 your pizza order when Notre Dame · 
I person. Serves 10 hungry for just $6.99. Get the second wins this weeks' hlsketball game! 
I People. Additional toppings r nl $3 00 Offer valid with your game ticket stub • 
•Or 0 Y · more. or this coupon. Not valid with any
! available at extra charge other offer. Valid game. ~F. . F 
I 11 II . . 
I 

Valid a1 particlpalong stores only Not valid with any other offers. Customer pays sales tax 1 Valid at participa!Jng stores tlllly. Not valkl With any othel offers. Customer pays sales tax 1 Valid at partici_pallng stores only. Not valkl With 3!'Y Olhel offers. Customer pays sales tax I
I where applicable. Oei~VerY areas ltmKed to ensure safe driVIng. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. where applicable. Delivery_areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. where applicable. Delivery_areas limKed to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry ~than $20.00. Our dnvers are not penalized lor late delovanes. • j_ Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. _j our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. _j
L ____________ _!xpirts1!!1~-----__ ----____Expir~31191_ _ _ ---_ ----____ Expim3/3119!...__ 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 816 Portage Ave.
IsJsSouthBendAve. 
Friday, March 1, 1991 The Observer 
page 9 

Cheerleader's mom fights murder charges 

HOUSTON (AP) -A woman 
pleaded innocent Thursday to a 
charge she tried to hire a hit­
man to kill the mother of a girl 
competing with her daughter to 
be a high school cheerleader. 
Wanda Webb Holloway is scheduled to go on trial June 10 on a charge of solicitation of capital murder, said her attor­ney, Troy McKinney. 
Mrs. Holloway sat calmly in the courtroom while McKinney entered the plea. She walked quickly through a phalanx of television cameras without making any public comment. 
"She's dealing with it," McK­inney said. "She has to be that way. I'm sure there are mo­ments when she's not that composed, as you can imagine. But she's dealing with it." 
Police say Mrs. Holloway is the "ultimate stage mother," so intent on having her daughter, Shanna, 13, make the cheer­leading squad at the Chan­nelview school that she tried to hire a gunman to kill Verna Heath, undermining the chance of Mrs. Heath's daughter, Am­ber, to win auditions. 
Mrs. Holloway, 37, who was arrested Feb. 1 and indicted Feb. 19, is free on a $10,000 bond. She could face five years to life in prison if convicted. 
March 6 hearing sought by her 
ex-husband, Tony Harper, to 
take custody of Shanna and her 
brother, Anthony, 17. 
Investigators said Mrs. Hol­loway contacted her former brother-in-law, Terry Lynn Harper, in January to find someone to kill Mrs. Heath, 38, before the spring cheerleader tryouts for the future ninth­graders. 
They say she originally of­fered $7,500 for a hitman to kill both Mrs. Heath and Amber, bu~ later agreed to pay $2,500 to kill only Mrs. Heath. 
Terry Lynn Harper, who has a prior felony conviction, con­tacted authorities about the deal and an undercover officer posed as the hitman. Investiga­tors say she offered diamond earrings worth $1,500 as a down payment to the officer, and their conversation was recorded. 
McKinney said the Holloways' lives have "pretty much re­turned to normal," despite re­quests to appear on "just about every" national talk show, invi­tations McKinney said have been refused. 
He said the children's lives also "are pretty normal. They've gotten a great deal of support from family, friends, 
AP Photo 
Post war plans 

President Bush meets with his national security advisors Wednesday to discuss post-war plans. Clockwise from left are: Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Colin Powell, White House Chief of Staff John Sununu, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, Vice President Dan Quayle, Bush, Secretary of State James Baker, National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, Asst. National Security Adviser Robert Gates. 
Episcopalians might ordain homosexuals 
NEW YORK (AP) -After measures that would permit having a blanket rule about it. three years' work, a commis­ordination of non-celibate ho­sion of the Episcopal Church mosexuals. Explicitly, "it would neither recommended Thursday that Such a move came allow nor disallow" such ordi­the way be cleared to allow or­Wednesday in the 3 million­nations, but "could allow" it, dination of homosexuals to the member Presbyterian Church said Bishop George Hunt of priesthood. (U.S.A.), in which conflict also Providence, R.I., head of the 
The issue has been hotly de­swirled about the matter. commission that proposed the bated throughout the 2.5 mil­Under the Episcopal proposal, policy. lion-member denomination. decisions about ordination 
It was the second major would be left up to local He said this was the church's Protestant body in two days in diocesan bishops and their longtime tradition until recent which study panels proposed elected advisors, instead of years. 
Mrs. Holloway also faces a school and church." 



$$$ MONEY 
.. 
Brando's son sentenced 10 years 

SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP) ­Actor Marlon Branda's son Christian was sentenced Thurs­day to 10 years in prison for voluntary _manslaughter in the shooting death of his half-sis­ter's lover. 
"It's a tragic situation for both families, for Christian Brando," Superior Court Judge Robert Thomas said in imposing the sentence. 
In tearful, rambling testimony before sentencing, Marlon Brando portrayed his son as a "basket case," a drug and alcohol abuser whose parents failed him. 
$$$ 

Christian Brando, 32, drew a six-year sentence on the manslaughter charge and four more years for aggravating circumstances -using a gun to commit the slaying. 
He pleaded guilty last month to voluntary manslaughter in the shooting last May of Dag Drollet, whom he maintained was killed accidentally in a struggle. He said he was angry with Drollet for beating his pregnant half-sister, Cheyenne. 
Prosecutors, alleging the killing was premeditated, sought the maximum 16-year prison sentence. 
A probation officer recom­mended the minimum sentence of t~ree years, citing chemical-induced brain damage and lack of self-esteem. 
''I'm sorry," Christian Bran do said to Drollet's family before the sentencing. "It's not my family, it's me. I'm at fault in this. If I could trade places with Dag, I would." 
The sentence appeared to stun the 80 people who filled the courtroom. There was si­lence for a moment and no one moved. Christian Brando, wearing a business suit, kept his head bowed and showed no reaction. 
He had been out on bail and was immediately ordered into custody and led away by sher­ifrs deputies. 


HOPE TinS STAll 
REMAINS YOUR 
LOHG TIME fRIEND! 
HAPPY 21st! 


We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 

You'll have all summer 
• 
Deferred Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


~ NOTREDAME 

~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from th'e Universit 

~HairCutting Co. 


• II 
• 
H 

• 
H 

• 
H 


LE 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE · 

GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA PROFESSIONAL . 277-79-40 HOURS: Daily 9-8 
REDI<EN 
Sal 9-6 Sun. 11 -5

PRODUCTS 
• Hair longer 1han Shoulder lenglh $1 0 additional ~o1 Chteago Hair Culling Co. 1991 
,;-----------~~~--~-~~-------------------------------....~----------------------------..
·' 
I ' 
~.~l. 
> 
! l
i 
t 
I'
I 
I~' 
(
. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John O'Brien  Kathleen O'Connor  
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill  Advertising Manager .........Beth Bolger  
VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall  Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert  
Sports Editor ..........•...•...... Greg Guffey  Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton  
Accent Edltor••.••••.••...•••.Colleen Cronin  Systems Mgr ..•. Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey  OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick  
Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis  Controller ....................... Chris Anderson  
Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials• represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, March 1, 1991 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Everyone should have right to voice beliefs without fear 
Dear Editor: 
In The Observer (Feb. 21) I found a photo of a number of people gathered around a patch of ground in Amherst, Massachusetts where an anti­war protester had burned himself to death. This photo hit rather close to home: I went to Amherst College as an under­graduate, and I could see that patch of ground from my se­nior-year door room. As I walked home from campus this afternoon, I wondered to my­self, why would someone choose to kill himself in such a painful and public manner? Simply to grab attention? To create a fuss? Or from strength of convictions? Even so, even with convictions so strong, why create a protest so open and so final? 
As I was turning into my apartment complex, a possible answer hit me. I saw all of the yellow ribbons and paper flags which my neighbors have put up in their windows and tied to their balconies. I thought that this person, this Gregory Levey, was perhaps crying out his op­position to the war in the only way he thought he had left. 
Those of us who oppose the war in the Middle East are very much a minority, as small as 20 percent if some polls are cor­rect, but if you look around, our numbers seem smaller than that. Any argument an anti-war protester may bring forth is drowned in a sea of red, white, blue and yellow. A man stands up in George Bush's church in Kennebunkport, Maine to offer 
DOONESBURY 

' • • I 
a prayer for the people of Iraq, and he is promptly over­whelmed by the congregation singing "God Bless America." Go to the campus bookstore, and the display in the window tells you that they support our troops abroad. Go to a local diner, and their sign will likely tell you the same. 
Ribbons and U.S. flags are everywhere. People who oppose this war feel some fear about speaking out in public, fear of being screamed at, fear of being called a traitor, fear of violence. Whatever dissent there is is quieted, or even silenced-silenced by fear. 
I am not going to defend Mr. Levey's actions here, nor am I going to condemn him. I did not know him, and in any case, it is not my place to judge. All I have to say is this: if our society si­lences dissent to the point that some consider violent protest the only way to make their voices heard, then there is a major problem in our society. 
This silencing does not have to be a result of laws or result of threats; it can, and does, merely consist of an aggressive refusal to listen. I ask you sim­ply to remember: even if only one of five people opposes the war, we 20 percent still have a right to speak out, free from fear, free from repression and free from condemnation. Protest should not need to be to the death to be heard. 
Stephen A. Allen Off-campus 
Feb.21, 1991 
(A)ITH THE PRE-SS I Y(JJ JUSTHAVE 
TO REM8MF3CI<.IAJ10'5 IN cart'ROL. YOUR stFf£ANT seeMS TO HAV8 A !<CAL-APTITU£/f5 FOR 



Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to the AP article titled "Inmate on Death Row is Spared" (The Observer, Feb. 27). A man in Virginia, Joseph Giarratano, was scheduled to be executed by electrocution on Feb. 22, 1991. Governor Douglas Wilder commuted his death sentence to life in prison with possible parole. I'd like to commend Governor Wilder for sparing this man's life. The death penalty is not an acceptable means of punishment. Why does the state kill people to show people that killing is wrong? It just doesn't make sense. 
Wilder said the facts of the case led him to spare Joseph Giarrantano. Evidence has been uncovered raising serious ques­tions about this prisoner's guilt. Virginia may have executed an innocent man. The death penalty is an irreversible punishment. Human beings, in­cluding judges, juries and lawyers make mistakes. One man should not lose his life be­cause of another man's error. 

Others have said that the Governor gave into political pressure because Wilder has been mentioned as a Democratic candidate for na­tional office. Earl Jones of Delmar, Delaware was quoted as saying, "I hope this man never becomes President. could never live in a country that would allow him to be President." This statement particularly upsets me. I hope and pray that we can live in a country with a President that shows respect for human life-all human life, including that of criminals. 
All human life is sacred, and it's time we had leaders who realize and uphold this belief. The death penalty is legalized murder and shows complete disregard for human life. The time to abolish it is now. 
Kelly Reuba Lewis Hall 
Feb.23,1991 

'Politically correct' can be dangerous term 
complete contradiction to the classical foundations of Western higher education. Honest discourse is essential to learning, and it depends on freedom of thought, speech, and the ability to act upon such desires. To learn from this freedom we must be able to openly discuss various view­points without holding such prejudices as the belief in a "politically correct" frame of reference. I sincerely hope that The Observer will refrain from using this term in future issues. 
Jeff Sepeta Off-campus 
Feb.26, 1991 
Dear Editor: 
It has recently come to my at­tention that The Observer makes frequent use of the term"politically correct." Such a phrase is dangerous in that it leads readers to believe in its converse: i.e., that there is a state of political incorrectness. There are standard mores and socially acceptable ways of be­havior within every society, but I am unaware as to one partic­ular political viewpoint which is "correct" above all others; some may come from a so-called logical development of the thought processes, but others do not. Many are simply based 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

I'UHAV&TO
5f3R.G£/WT,
THIS GUY 

G&T8ACI<7D
PO ANYOF
H.A5AUTH8 
YOUONTHAT,
YOU GUYS
MAKJNSSOF 
8/U-. " _.---r-,.,_

HAV& L-IC/3 7 
A!<EALPUB­
/ 
'A man prepared has fought 
UCIIFFAIRS 
OFFICER/ 
half the battle.' 
Don Quixote 
f I j I • 

upon traditions spanning a great number of generations. This does not make them in­valid or unworthy of debate. 
In the United States, most people generally accept the be­lief that each person is entitled to holding individual values which may or may not be ac­cepted by anyone else. This is especially true when applied to politics-although this may not apply at the University of Notre Dame, where a large majority of the people have particular tendencies which they would like to inflict upon others. 
This is nothing short of intel­lectual terrorism, and stands in 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
Viewpoint
Friday, March 1, 1991 page 11 
Year of Women shows need for coeducational housing 
"The Year of Women... What, precisely, does that mean? Does it mean that women will be treated with a special respect this year? Does it mean that women will be favored or focused on during the following months? No. However, one of the goals of Year of Women is to improve the relations which exist (barely, but they do exist) between the two sexes. 
Women at this University have, for 20 years, been the ob­jects of severe discrimination. They are apparently angered because a good number of men at this school treat them like sex objects and nothing more. Many of the male students at Notre Dame come from all­boys' high schools and have a difficult time relating to women. 
I am not condemning either man or single-sex schools (1, as well, attended an all-male Jesuit institution), but rather a widely-experienced mindset on this campus. Why does this mode of thinking persist on a co-educational campus? 
For one reason, and one rea­son only. The lack of co-educa­tional dormitories has created such a misanthropic atmo­sphere at Notre Dame, and it is time the situation is remedied. 
There is one primary reason 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

which serves as proof for this argument. There is little or no interaction between the two sexes outside of classes, dating and hall-organized events. It's difficult to make close friends of the opposite sex if you only see them in class and at par­ties. With mixed-sex dorms, men and women would be more likely to become friends, instead of forming the single­sex cliques which have developed at Notre Dame. 
By segregating the sexes, the university is virtually handicap­ping its students. Male gradu­ates of Notre Dame have his­torically found that they have more difficulties dealing with women and vice versa. They feel uncomfortable dealing with members of the opposite sex in non-social settings because they have not been exposed to such situations during their 

Matthew Miller Guest Columnist 
college education. 
My solution: co-educational dorms. If women live just down the hall or one floor up, men will be exposed to their pres­ence in other non-social locales and vice versa. Male students will be forced to interact with females and women with men. No longer will this University require a "Year of Women.. to further establish ties between the sexes, for such relations will develop naturally on their own. 
Integration of the sexes would be simple. Look at Flanner and Grace-by floor or by section, co-education would be simple. In fact, every dorm on campus could be made co­ed either by floor or by section. 
So what is hindering the 

Administration from imple­menting such an ideal pro­gram? Catholic doctrine. Apparently, the University has qualms about allowing men and women to be in the same dormitory after 2 a.m. That's not bad, compared to what it was 30 years ago. Besides the fact that women weren't even admitted to Notre Dame, the University shut the power off at midnight. Guards were posted at the entrances to the dorms, hoping to catch anyone coming in late. 
The only reason that we have parietals and single-sex dorms is because the University is afraid that students will not follow Catholic morality. At a Catholic school, the morals should be followed; but at the cost of interfering with normal relations between the two sexes? Which is more objec­tionable: a few people doing the wild thing after hours, or a lot of screwed-up graduates with little or no sense of non-social interaction? 
Besides, parietals could still be enforced, if the University persists. Rules banning men from women's floors or sections and vice versa after 2 a.m. wouldn't need to change. What's the difference-mem­bers of the opposite sex are al­lowed in several places in each dorm after parietals anyway. 
The point remains that Notre Dame desperately needs co-ed­ucational dorms. I would en­courage the University to look beyond their fears which bind them to Roman Catholic teach­ings and institute co-ed dorms for the good of the school. In this Year of Women, we need to look at relations between the two sexes here at Notre Dame and give some thought to why they are so bad. Co-ed dorms are the solution. Remember, you pay $18,000 a year to at­tend this school; the Administration is here for you. You've got a voice-use it. 
Matthew Miller is in the Freshman Year of Studies and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Despite imperialist history, U.S. trying to solve problems 
Dear Editor: "imperialist" neighbors and to 
In response to Manuel claim themselves as the inno­Espino's letter concerning cent victims of yanqui aggres­hypocrisy in the United States, I sions, but they seem to forget would like to ask Mr. Espino if the countless times when they he knows of any other country have taken on the role of bullies or race that has not been against the rest of their neigh­hypocritical, or unjust? I am not bors in Latin America. I will not trying to defend U.S. history, even mention the rampant God knows it is far from racism that occurs within their perfect, but I would like to em­own rigid caste system. phasize that one cannot contin­As far as the United States' ually blame a country for taking away Mexican territory something it did 100 years in over 150 years ago, I would like the past simply to justify what to ask Mr. Espino if he can jus­one wants in the present, espe­tify Mexico's claim to that land, cially since there is not one per­since that land did not belong to all Native Americans as peace Secondly, I am glad these a racist and telling me that. I son or race on this planet that Mexico to begin with. It be­loving individuals. For example, cabrones -and I mean that in a just do not understand what it has not acted unjustly at one longed to the people who lived I do not think that the imperial­loving way-had the guts to feels like to be discriminated
.. 
time or another. To help illus­there, the Native Americans. istic land-swindling Aztec rebel against Mexico, if not, the against, I would like you to trate my point, I will use the Mexico had no right to that land Empire treated their conquered Tejano culture in Texas would know that I have seen both country Mr. Espino claims as simply because it inherited it with all the love and respect we not be what it is today: a sides of racism. I am of Mexican his mother land-Mexico-as from Spain. Since it is always think they did. When a people community of proud bi-cultural descent, which means I am an example. Having lived there insistent on the sovereignty of a want to justify their past, they people who are not ashamed of Spanish, Native American, and for a year, I know first-hand people, why didn't Mexico re­call it good old survival. When either their roots or their her­French-my French ancestors how history can sometimes get turn that land to its rightful they want to convict the actions itage. We have neither lost our being involved in the distorted to suit a people's owners instead of allowing both of others. they call it aggressive roots nor our heritage by be­"imperialist" French interven­needs. Mexicans and Americans to imperialism. coming citizens of this country; tion of Mexico. I know very Mexicans are quick to point settle it? As for the Spanish imperial­we have enhanced them. After well what it feels like to be both th fi at their northern It would also be an i ustice ists whom Mr. Espino derides, all, we have the be,st of two discriminated against and to be who exactly does he think he worlds. blamed for an ancestor's ac­was descended from? It is a There are times when both tions, and I do not wish either well-known fact that mostly all the history of my country and of those feelings on anyone else. Mexicans have a mixture of my ethnic group saddens me. I did not write this letter to both Spanish and Indian blood but neither I nor anyone else show the faults of a particular flowing through them. There is should take the blame for group or culture, but to only a tiny minority of Mexicans things that have happened in emphasize that every society who can legitifuately claim the distant past. Yes, racism has its faults. This does not themselves as being either still lingers, but innocent people mean, however, that one should purely Spanish or purely of the present should not be denounce either his heritage or Indian. If that is the case, it held accountable for the actions his country. Despite all the would make sense for Mr. of either their ancestors or their problems within Mexican soci­Espino to blame his very own cousins of today. It is wrong to ety, I still consider it one of the ancestors for Spain's imperial­blame a group of people most beautiful countries in both ism and not the present citizens collectively; we should hold only its culture and its history; as far of Spain. After all, there are those individuals responsible as the United States is very few Spaniards who can whose actions are concerned, yes, we have many honestly claim a conquistador reprehensible. If Hispanics injustices, but I do see a gen­
Dear Editor: campus cannot purchase an 
as his ancestor, since the ma­want to solve their problems uine spirit within this country to
A monumental injustice is equal trinket to' bestow upon 
jority of descendants of these they must do so by working to­correct them. Instead ofoccurring within the very their spouse. How, we ask you? 
Spanish conquerors are of gether in a positive way and not slamming this country, as Mr.
shadow of the golden dome. In How can this be? Why should Mexican citizenship, not by complaining about their bad Espino has done, we shouldthis, the one thousand nine men be denied the privilege of Spanish. lot or by begging another ethnic praise it for its willingness tohundred and ninety-first year flashing a Notre Dame ring at In defense of the "Spanish­group to solve their problems try to solve its problems. Theof our Lord, aka. The Year of the health club, proudly boast­surnamed pendejos " who for them. Demanding that U.S: may have faults, but it also Women, it is only possible for ing, "My wife went to Notre helped the U.S. take away others give up either their job has many other things to bethe male members of the Notre Dame"? 
"Mexican territory,.. I would or their land simply because proud of.
Dame Community to purchase Gregory M. Delate 
first like Mr. Espino to know one feels his ancestors have
for their spouses a "semi unof­Cavanaugh Hall 
that I am extremely disgusted been stilted is like putting a Zaragoza A. Guerraficial" Notre Dame "dinner Steven L. Curtis 
with his-derogatory £emnrk; in ,band-aid over a large kni'fe , ., , ,. , ~, t • ~ ~avana&JQI'l~ liall
ring." However, we find that ' Grace Hall 
the future, I hope he will call us wound. Feb.25,1991
the women on this blessed Feb. 22, 1991 


-~------~----------------~------------------------------~-----------------­
Third annual Morrissey Film offers good student films for a 
MARCH 1 • 3 
W:.':':"···· 



!weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC The Generics, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. Krosen Roe, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
l 
5 O'Clock Shadows,. Alumni-Senior Club, 1 0 p.m. I Nick Campanella, Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. 
I * 
Chronic Desire, Grace Coffeehouse, 11 p.m. South Bend Wind Quintet, Moreau Hall Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
THEATRE 
I 
"Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie 1 Factory," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $7. 
1 

sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
I 
5 O'Clock Shadows, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. 
Harvey & the Blues News, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Beloit College Choirs, Moreau Hall Little Theatre, 
Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
EVENTS 
An Expression in Rhythm & Rhyme, Carroll Hall Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
THEATRE 
"Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $7. 

MUSIC 
Faculty Organ Recital, featuring Craig Cramer, Sacred Heart Church, 8 p.m. 
THEATRE 
"Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory," Washington Hall, 3:10p.m. Tickets $7. Student discounts available. 
DANCE Southold Dance Theater, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2 p.m. 
FILM 
African Camera Safari, Madeleva Memorial Building, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, 2:30p.m. 

FRIDAY "The Little Thief," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 &9:45 p.m: SATURDAY 
"The little Thief," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m., "Dick Tracy," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
t's back, and it's bigger than ever. 
Over 20 films were 
submitted for the third · 
annual Morrissey Film Festival. Tonight audiences will be able to view the winning movies at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
According to the festival's co­chairman Jay Barry, more than · half of the dorms are repre­sented in this year's film fest. "We had a greater number of off-campus entries this year," he added. 
The films in the festival fall into two separate categories: Morrissey films and non-Mor­rissey films. At least five non­Morrissey films and two Mor­rissey films are selected to be shown at the festival. 
"We've got a really solid group of films, and it will rival last year," said Barry. "They range from the bizarre to the hilarious. Each film is individu­ally appealing." 
"We definitely have a cross­section of a lot of different movies," said co-chairman Dan Garibaldi, "No two movies are alike in any way." 
This year's entries from Mor­rissey include "You Think I'm Nuts," by Brian Muller and Barry, and "The Shiesman Award," a spoof on the Heis­man Award ceremony, by Leo Tighe, Alex Schlich, Doug Cooper and Garibaldi. 
A lot of time and effort goes into putting together these eight-to-ten-minute segments. "Filming it took ten hours, and editing took an additional six 


NO Folk Choir: How sheet m photos fit in the life of a uniq 
By JEAN HAZARD Accent Writer 
A 
remarkably atypical choir, the "folkheads" of the Notre Dame Folk Choir have a cow as their unofficial mascot, bang sheet metal in their spare time, and sneak out of abbeys for late-night photographs in Ken­tucky pastures. 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir 
began in 1980 and has since 
grown from six to 37 members. 
The group performs weekly at 
the "Strings and Wings" 11:45 
a.m. liturgy at Sacred Heart. 
The "folkheads" also perform 
at Advent and Lent Vespers, 
Junior Parents' Weekend and 
Freshman Orientation masses, 
Saint Patrick's Day mass, and 
the Our Lady of Guadalupe 
mass. 

Collections from Satnt The Notre Dame Folk Choir (pictured here) recently recorded the alqum 
Patrick's Day masses benefit Companion to Prayer. nnP able to imerweave his writings 
the North Wall Women's Center hour and 10 minutes of sacred with their songs. 
for unemployed and illiterate music, will be available in the A monastic scholar joined the 
Dublin women, and proceeds Notre Dame bockstore in April. Folk Choir for three of four 
from the Guadalupe masses go The cassette is the result of 21 recording sessions. Many of the 
to a clinic in Mexico for medical hours of recording, 13 1/2 of psalms on Companion to Prayer 
supplies. which are from the Folk Choir's are based on the work of 
Funds for the choir are raised trip to Gethsemani Abbey in Chrysogonus Waddell, a Geth­
from the sales of the cassettes Trappist, Kentucky. semani monk who translates 
Mass on the Feast of Saint The group made a retreat to Hebrew psalms to English. 
Patrick, and Companion to Gethsemani, the first Cisterian 
Prayer. Mass on the Feast of abbey in the United States, last The choir uses funds from 
Saint Patrick was released in November and returned in Jan­their cassettes to partially fi­
March 1989 and features sa­uary to record Companion to nance trips. The choir visited 
cred music performed on the Prayer. Thomas Merton, a Ireland in 1988 and 1990, and 
Celtic harp, guitar, organ, and cloistered hermit who wrote in they plan to travel to Scotland, 
flute, with the voices of the protest of Vietnam, lived at England and Ireland in 1992. 
Notre Dame Folk Choir . Gethsemani and the choir was Although they have some free hours," said Garibaldi. "To film and edit would take a good three or four days." 
Although films from Morris­sey will be shown at the festi­val, only non-Morrissey films are eligible to win Best Picture, Best Actor and Best Actress. Last year, John Fletcher of Holy Cross Hall won Best Picture for "Dreams 'n' Stuff," a music video; Ann Puetz won Best Actress for her role in "Lyons Gladiators," and the webbed­footed star of Sorin's "My Life as a Duck" won the Best Actor award. 
Although Morrissey films are not eligible for these awards, there is an award for the best Morrissey film. Last year, Pat Marty walked away with the Morrissey title for his series of short interviews on the Notre Dame sex policy titled, "Sex, Lyons and Videotape." 
Last year, Cushing Audito­rium could not accommodate all of the students who came to see the festival. "Last year we had about 300 people in the aisles ... and we had to turn away some people," said Garibaldi, "We're having two shows this year to meet the demand." 
Although the festival has added a second screening, the chairmen expect another capacity crowd. Students who want to attend the first showing are advised to arrive at Cushing by 6:30 p.m. Since there is no admission, students will be seated on a first come, first serve basis. 
Admission is free, but stu­dents are encouraged to make a donation to the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center, a local tutor-
Morrissey residents (from left) ... Schlich and Doug Cooper film "Th the Morrissey Film Festival, to be h 
ing and daycare center for un­derprivileged grammar school children. "(The festival) is a charity event first and fore­most," said Barry. 
The festival has not started yet, but some of the reviews are already in. Tighe, .vho started 



page 13 

Festival ~ood cause 


Steve Martin's crazy, off-the-wall humor carries the otherwise weak 'L.A. Story' 
By DAVID KENNEDY Although the bizarre Marti­Accent Writer nesque humor is more subtle 
than some of his earlier films, 

S 
teve Martin fans alert: there still are plenty of times 
his latest movie, a when the audience questions 
romance set in Los the sanity of the writer. 
Angeles, has the Martin uses the setting of Los 
required amount of Angele~ as a personality in it­crazy, zany, goofy. oddball self. Although many aspects of humor his followers crave. In the L.A. lifestyle are satirized, it "L.A. Story," Martin takes the is never done in a nasty or audience through the judgmental way. The film shows beginnings of a love affair while that, although they may seem depicting life in Los Angeles as superficial and materialistic, only he could imagine it. the people of L.A. are human 
Martin plays Harris K. and can be as good or bad as Telemacher, a "wacky" televi­anyone else. The magical sion weatherman who finds qualities throughout the story himself stuck with an embar­depict the pervading optimistic rassing job and a superficial feeling that Los Angeles is a girlfriend {Marilu Henner) with place where anything can hap­whom he has nothing in com­pen. mon. changes work for the better. He sica Parker). 
His life begins to change after attempts to look for more The good parts of this movie Those moviegoers who have encountering a freeway sign satisfying work through a new include, above all, numerous enjoyed Steve Martin's work in which acts as Harris' fortune agent and tries to attract the examples of Martin's unique the past should definitely see teller, sounding board, and attention of Sara McDowel comedic filmmaking ability. For "L.A. Story." If you're not from conscience. The sign accurately (Victoria Tennant), an English example, his shortcut to work L.A .. or if you think that his predicts that changes in his life journalist who is doing a story takes him over sidewalks, movies are "silly" or "too will happen soon and will be about L.A. for the London through parks, and neighbors' strange," you should spendcaused by the weather. Times. yards who nonchalantly wave your money on something else. First, he is fired from his job Although all seems to work hello to him as he drives right Aside from the humorous 
The Observer I John Rock 
when his weekend weather re­out well for the two at first, past them sitting on their scenes, the move falls short in 
)hn Fallenstein, Leo Tighe, Alex port, which he taped in advance 
with the aid of the freeway sign, lounge chairs. believability, and the magical
! Shiesman Award," their entry into ("This is L.A. What's going to 
complications arrive when both In another comic scene, scenes are somewhat weak. 
!ld tonight at Cushing Auditorium. 
change?"), turns out to be Harris and Sara catch each Martin has to give an entire If all you're looking for is an wildly inaccurate. In addition to other enjoying romantic financial statement to a entertaining film with off-beat
the Morrissey Film Festival in 1989, says this year's show will this, he finds out that his girl­weekends with other people. restaurant (L'Idiot) at which he humor, look no further than "L. be "a bastion of laughter and friend is having an affair with Sara is with her ex-husband attempts to make a reservation, A. Story." If you are looking for emotion." his agent. (Richard E. Grant), who wants only to secure a table eight a great example of movie mak­
''I'm happy with the direction Having been freed from his her back, and Harris is with a weeks later while being able to ing and a film which will last 
job, his girlfriend and his agent, young, sexy, free-spirited
it's taken since I started it three order nothing loftier than throughout the ages, well, it's years ago," said Tighe. "I think Harris sets out to make these clothing store clerk (Sarah Jes-chicken. no "Star Wars." it could be around for a long time." 

etal and midnight ue musical group 
r 
McLean finds "more emotional because the choir knows who the psalms were written for." 

Although they take their per­formances, recordings, and bi­


Theatre Grottesco presents a
weekly practices seriously, the choir keeps the spirit light. "Folkheads" have adopted cows as a mascot, after having passed many herds of cattle on 


break from the ordinary stage 
road trips to retreats and 
recordings. 

One April Fool's Day, the choir subtly sang "Moo" instead of "Doo" during mass, unbe­By JOE MOODY chronization, dance, and other­ing on. knownst to the prayerful con­Assistant News Editor worldly dialogue, is the story of Theatre Grottesco is a vaca­gregation. During the retreat at a small family-owned cookie tion so far from the ordinary Gethsemani, the group snuck f you want to dream factory on the brink of that your destination is as far out late at night to explore the without closing an eye, bankruptcy. A destitute novelist as your personal perception can grounds. People in the Abbey then the Theatre is hired to write fortune cook­take you. later reported hearing "banging Grottesco is the thing to ies, and the company is in­If it's an excursion for $7 a
I

sheet metal"-which was see. stantly turned around. With ticket you're looking for, this is actually Cerrone's deft escape. It's a spectacle of move­success in the company comes it. The explorers discovered the ment-a modern circus of sight, an accompanying struggle The visit of Theatre Grottesco cow pasture of a dairy com­sound and action, all flowing against the greed, avarire, and to Michiana is sponsored by
Pttoto courtesy ot Amy Puetz 
pany, but were disappointed to with a subtle yet strong pride that so often comes with Arts Midwest members and 
Companion to Prayer . find the cows awake. Since they question challenging the success. friends, in partnership with the time, choir members are kept could not tip the wakeful cows, "contradictions and speed of National Endowment for the busy performing at cathedrals the choir instead took pictures change in contemporary Amer­Even with such a plot, it's Arts, and with special assis­while touring. Host families of themselves and the cows at ica." easy to be transported into an­tance from Hudson's. usually house the students, three o'clock in the morning. Theatre Grottesco opened in other dimension from the Performances of "Fortune: providing an opportunity for The "folkheads" are a very Washington Hall on Wednesday. dream-like visuals alone-all The Rise and Fall of a Small surprising and humorous cul­tight-knit group. "It goes so far The performance will be put on by a highly talented Fortune Cookie Factory" will tural misunderstandings. For beyond just singing together," running through Sunday. group of performers who have run Friday and Saturday at example, one host family of says Kate McLean. "This is the truly mastered the art of 8:10 p.m. and Sunday at 3:10 
student director Marc Cerrone, closest group I've ever worked The play is divided into three movement. p.m. The $7 tickets are avail­an Italian from New York, as­with." parts. Part one, titled "Fortune: The script is virtually put on able at the door or in advance sumed Cerrone was in the The retreats to Gethsemani The Rise and Fall of a Small the back burner behind a bar­at the LaFortune Student Cen­Mafia. and Dragonwood give the Fortune Cookie Factory," is a rage of images, emotions, and ter Box Office. Student and se­
members of the choir a sense of melodrama set in the late incredible acting throwing the nior citizen discounts are avail­The music of the Folk Choir is family. "(They are) people to go 1930s. audience into a near out-of­able for Sunday's performance 
contemporary liturgical music. to for a hug,"saya Cerrone. For Amongst the impressive dis-, body experience where it's easy at $5. For Mastercard and Visa 
Steve Warner, the choir's direc­the "folkheads," the choir is a play of lighting, rhythm, syn-to forget the stage it's happen-orders, call (219) 239-8128. 
tor, writes some of the music, worship community, a support 
which choir member Kate system, and a lot of fun . 




The Observer Friday, March 1 , 1991
page 14 

An ode to St. George Bush the dragon-slayer 
When the Gulf War began, I was a sweet, ol' fella, mellowing nicely, headed not so gently into that good night, raging with dignity against the dying of the light. 
After weeks as a Gulf War junkie, watching tragedy unfold on the television like a mini­series, I'm ready to smoke dope and wear love beads as I brood over the poetry of the counter­culture: "Christ climbed down/ from His bare tree/ this year/ and ran away to where/ no in­trepid Bible salesmen/ covered the territory/ in two-tone Cadil­lacs/ and where no Sears/ Roe­buck creches/ complete with plastic babe in manger/ arrived by parcel post/ the babe by spe­cial delivery/ and where no tele­vised Wise Men/ praised the Lord Calvery whiskey." 
The irony is that the churches couldn't afford to let Him go, if He chose to leave them. 
This fine-tuned Catholic con­science of mine has become a maverick that needs to be roped in and bridled. Yet no conscience of mine is going to stand still, waiting for the cloned rangers with the Stars and Stripes in their eyes to lay violent hands on it, and brain­wash it into applauding the United Nations' resolution which licenses the President to spend $77 billion and some change on war. 
My conscience may be erro­neous, but it's the only map I have to steer by in this cocka­mamie world. If it leads me to hell, that will not be the first time I have quarrelled with the will of God. 
In the Guinness World Book of Villians, Saddam must take top honors as· the guttersnipe you wouldn't want your sister to marry. Even with the devil as a sidekick, Saddam could never be Hitler, though he may dream of becoming Hitler the way a skinny eigth-grader dreams of becoming Joe Montana. 

Maybe Saddam could be com­pared to the godfather whom the Mafia fears most. As a 
·school boy bully, Saddam must have been a sight to behold. Maybe his classmates appeased him by offering him their lunches. ·Maybe it's the price they felt they had to pay to pre­vent him form poking the eyes out of the small boys he met in the washroom during recess. 
For Saddam, as a badass steeped in his country's blood,. it was a bad day at Black Rock when St. George the dragon­slayer stepped up to bat, hear­ing a voice like St. Joan of Arc. 
As you can figure out from reading the papers (Would you like a bibliography?), St. Ge­orge's voices told him that his country was suffering from a poor self-image, as a conse­quence of losing the Vietnam War. The voices told George that if the country could show the world that Americans can still win a war, then America would emerge from the fray as this tainted planet's solitary superpower. 
"Would Noriega do as a tyrant to topple?" George asked. Noreiga, Bush was told, would do as a sparring part­ner. But Noriega wasn't a dragon with an established reputation. He was more like a Tomcat feared in the neighbor­hood as a public nuisance. 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
What was needed was a tnu v mythical beast the size o1 1he Sphinx, one which couldn't be trusted not to be ferocious with virgins. 
As a fire-breathing behemoth, Saddam is only a papt~r dragon with sawdust for a heart. But on stage, he looked good and had all the vile habits that blood-thirsty werewolves are famous for. 
When Saddam tried to swal­low poor little Kuwait last Au­gust, St. George, reacting like a member of the Dead Poet's So­ciety, wrote on his calendar: "Carpe diem! Seize the day!" Standing up to the aggressor like a tinhorn soldier, the dragon-slayer verbally tweaked Saddam's nose, and kept on tweaking it verbally every day for five months. 
The ways things are turning out, George isn't going to comP out of this dustup smelling like a saint or hero, no matter how tall he stands in the Rose Gar­den when he sends the message to his enemy: "Make my day." Saddam, as we knew, is an in­ternational thug, in a class with the crime lords who lie with their feet in a tub of concrete, in the garbage at the bottom of the East River. 
The comic side of this tragic war is that George had imag­ined that Saddam was so much bigger than life: a born-again Stalin running his evil empire as a police state behind thf> Iron Curtain. Our nation f'ould have fought "Star Wars" with the sky, sea, and land armada we sent to call on Iraq, which has been collapsing like a house of cards from the night the bombings began. The allies have had more firepower at their fingertips than was ever used before in all the wars known to history put together. 
Any war is folly, but the spe­cial folly of this war is the amount of overkill. "Parturient montes, nascetur ridiculous mus," wrote the Latin poet Ho­race. "Mountains will heave in childbirth, and a silly little mouse will be born." It's almost as much of a disparity to find that the allies have staged "Apocalypse Now" to put Herod, a local tyrant born to lose, out of commission. 
Saddam deserved to have his backside kicked into Kingdom Come, but did we have to go after him as though he were the anti-Christ? "We have no quar­rel with the Iraqi people," Bush keeps saying. So why did he send an army so big it could have humiliated Russia oppos­ing us in the Cold War? 
Bush tells us that Saddam is 
responsible for all the death 
and destruction. Was Pilate 
guiltless of the blood of Christ? 
Pilate's saying so doesn't make 
it true. Bush, unless. he's a fool, 
must know where the buck 

stops. Even the barbarism, oxymoronically called a "just war," can go on too long being needlessly vicious. Who do you blame it on, if you can't blame George? 
A fanatic, says Churchill, is one who can't change his mind and won't change the subject. But in resisting this war, I have, for the first time in my life, taken to heart the sermon of Father Mapple, in Melville's "Moby Dick." 
According to Mapple 's preaching, the whale "vomited out Jonah upon the dry land; and when the word of the Lord came a second time ... Jonah did the Almighty's bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood? ... 
"Delight is to him .. . who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth ever stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight ...is to him who ... is only a patriot to heaven ... And eternal delight and deli­ciousness wil be his, who com­ing to lay him down, can say with his final breath, '0 Father ... here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, .or mine own. Yet this is nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out the lifetime of his God?" 
What can you expect to be­come except a prophet when the conscience you live with feels like an albatross hanging around your aging neck? Maybe you should pray for my attention span to be shorter, before I annoy St. George, slay­ing his paper dragon. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS--LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off Campus Sign-ups: February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. On Campus Sign-ups: ..
~~-lo Now -March 1. Look for posters in respective d~rms. 
'•

=f•• "Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Casimir-Ford Street neighborhood 
This project needs your support! 
QUESTIONS??? Please call: 
Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 
page 15

Friday, March 1 , 1991 The Observer 


Douglas gets hot as Heat blister Pistons 100-98 
MIAMI (AP) -Sherman the Pistons matched their sparking the Atlanta Hawks to lead, then got 27 points and 15 David Robinson scored 2 3 Douglas won a battle of the longest losing streak of the their 21st consecutive victory at rebounds from Patrick Ewing to points while Sean Elliott and guards Thursday night by season. home, 117-109 over the win their fourth consecutive Terry Cummings each had 19 scoring 27 points, including the Dumars missed an outside Portland Trail Blazers Thursday game, 100-93 on Thursday for San Antonio. Gerald Wilkins tie-breaking basket with 1:i 3 jumper with 90 seconds left night. night. adedd 22 for New York. left, and Miami handed the that would have put Detroit Battle had nine points and It was the first time since Jan. A jumper by Wilkins, who has Detroit Pistons their fourth ahead, and Douglas then hit a Duane Ferrell added seven in a 3-6 against Denver and the Los scored more than 20 points in consecutive defeat, 100-98. driving 8-footer to give Miami a 22-5 burst that turned an 80-72 Angeles Clippers that the each of the New York's four 
Detroit lost despite a season­98-96 lead. After Douglas in­deficit late in the third quarter Knicks have won two straight victories, gave the Knicks the high 32 points by Vinnie tercepted a pass by Dumars, into a 94-85 lead. Battle capped games at Madison Square lead for good at 89-87 with 2:42 Johnson and 30 by Joe Dumars. Miami's Grant Long hit a follow the surge when he barely beat Garden, where they are now left. San Antonio had scored But it was another guard, shot with 33 seconds to go for a the shot clock with a 3-pointer 13-1 7 for the season. seven straight points, the last Gerald Henderson, who took 100-96 lead. out of the right corner with 5:49 The loss knocked the Spurs three on a 23-footer by Elliott, the final shot for Detroit, miss­to play. out of first place in the Midwest to tie the scored 87-87 with ing the rim on an 18-footer as Hawks 117, Division after they briefly re­3:02 left. the buzzer sounded. Trail Blazers 1 09 Knicks 100, Spurs 93 gained the top spot from Utah Ewing scored 10 points in the 
Henderson missed all five of John Battle scored 18 of his The New York Knicks spotted by defeating Portland twice this third quarter as the Knicks 
his shots and failed to score as 26 points in the final quarter, the San Antonio Spurs a 19-1 week. pulled ahead 74-68. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314laFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all


Classifieds 
spaces. 

Move Off Campus in '91-'92. HELP , PLEASE SAVE ME FROM ««ATTENTION WOMEN»>» NOW LEASING Take me to PGH for sp break!$$ 3 great houses avail. Sign MY ROOMATE. I NEED A RIDE You don't have to dream about LAFAYETTE SQUARE Dlanex4902 Des Moines tor Easter( NOTICES lease before break and get TO GEORGIA FOR SRING BREAK. meeting a tall, dark handsome man TOWN HOMES discount. Call now 288-5653. IF YOU ARE GOING TO GEORGIA anymore -you can call him at CAVANAUGH'S NAKED BLUE TYPING AVAILABLE OR FLORIDA PLEASE GIVE ME A x11 06 and wish him a Happy 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS JOGGER -I love you -thanks for 287-4082 FLORIDA KEYS! LIFT. Birthday!!!!! AVAILABLE the happiness 
HOUSE RENTALS MICHELLE ROCH P.S. His name is JORGE RICHA NY TIMES, used and new books Near Key West and beaches 284-4338 AMENITIES INCLUDE: Redundancy Department of Pandora's Books 233-2342 Call Rich 288-5428 -WASHER AND DRYER Redundancy WILL go all the way !!! corner of ND ave. & Howard ADOPTION: Loving, professional SATAN IS NOT AS WILD, BUT -SECURITY SYSTEM 10-5:30 everyday 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 couple will give your newborn the STILL MANAGES A COUPLE WET -DISHWASHER in your FACE with disgrace! 
Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776. best things in life. let us help you PHILOSOPHERS PER -CENTRAL AIR FACE FACE BABY!! Dissertations, Theses, Papers through this difficult time. Medical SEMESTER!!!! -PATIOS FACE FACE BABY!! Professional Typing Furnished Bedrooms and Shared expenses paid. legal/confidential. -118 277-7406 Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Call Barbara and Joe anytime. ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS 
Washer and Dryer. $200 per month (800) 253-8086. What NOT to give Cecilia Brown for LEFT!!!!!!! Jeff and Jen hooked up before. Will RESUMES.. PROFESSIONAL includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. her 21st birthday-Call For More Info Now they get drunk enough on their 21st QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. Resumes .... Professional quality "1 01 Uses for a Dead Cat" 232-8256 to hook up again? I don't think so 
272-5667. (Tom Williams) "Great Puns I Have Heard" because you can't if you're WORD PROCESSING FOR SALE Grand Marnier HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!!!!!! unconscious, and they will be. Low Rates= 277-6091 Simon & Garfunkel's "Bridge Over KRISTIN "NEWT" GAFVERT 
l.,jUVERNMENT HOMES from $1 Troubled Water" Let's do something different and go ATTENTION ALL CREW TEAM (U repair). Delinquent tax property. JOHN "HERBIE" O'BRIEN, Happy Birthday Cecilia-Eric to the COMMONS!!! MEMBERS (present and former): 
LOST/FOUND 
Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 Just because you're hot for love, Monday is John O'Brien's 21st 962-8000. us doesn't mean you can call ••• GRADUATE STUDENTS ••• the hottest quad Birthday! "Only 3 more days 'til my 
LOST: Ext. GH-9834 for current repo us losers, loser! Remember... in P.W. and the birthday." See you in the Tikki Tikki A 35mm camera was left hanging list. Your the one who started this RESEARCH MONEY: rest of 4A Tikki Room! on the coat rack in Room 101 of payback WAR!! HOW TO GET IT! Galvin Life Sciences on Sat. the One way tix from NY-SB on 3/17. Love &Kisses, Ia Ia Ia Ia, lemons ... white what? HELP! I need a ride home to the 16th-during JPW weekend. If you Cheap! call Janice x2993 K&M DR. JENNIFER GLASS Louisville, KY area tor Spring Break. have any info. , please please call: P.S.-Too bad about your disease ... DR. THOMAS MUELLER To 76 Seniors from California: Will help pay for gas. Call Ana Tim #1151 82 TOYOTA TERCEL SR5 hope it clears up! So you thought I was CRAZY, x4914 
HATCHBACK, 53,000 MILES, AIR, MONDAY, MARCH 4, 7-9 PM did you? "...dragon and beast found: on 2/22/91 a lady's STEREO, LIKE NEW. • I need a ride to New York-• and false prophet" of Revela­Dear Sebastian, wristwatch was found outside of ONE OWNER. X 232-8718. Syracuse vicinity. If any­CENTER FOR CONTINUING tions Ch. 16, vs. 12 refers to I thought I'd write a classified note Knott Hall around 11 :00 p.m. If you one is going that way save EDUCATION AUDITORIUM Russia and Iraq and U.S.A. To make up for that letter you wrote. can identify it, call x1209. AIRLINE TICKET! One-way me and give me a call. Millions will die. I warned You think that you can get away 
from S.B. to ST. LOUIS. X4049 REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED you. Michael With games like this that people 
LOST: I lost my thin link gold Leaves on 3/9. Only $50. play? bracelet on Wednesday, Call Chris x1067. LAST CHANCE!!! HE'S A PEOPLE PLEASER, 2 people need a RIDE to the Oh, no, my friend, you're surely Feburary 20!! If you find it, Cancun from $359.00 A CHICK TEASER, PITTSBURGH AREA for break. Will quite wrong-please call Jessica at 4824. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Air and seven nights A LOVER OF LEISURE, help pay gas/tolls. Lisa X3783 or Cool goddesses like me will 
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me No cash? Take out a loan from the A TRUE "GARDEN WEASEL" Dan X1772 eventually come along LOST nice Casio calculator. for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. credit union and then call! To ensure that you will finally regret Saturday probably at the Huddle. If Office near campus. Mike 277-0253 DO IT UP TONITE KERR! AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE! These funny little ideas that you you found it, PLEASE return it-no somehow get. questions asked. Reward. HEARSE, 1975 OLDSMOBILE Jeannie Weenie in the Brownie TOP TEN QUOTES FROM FOOLS AUDITIONS FOR SHAKESPEARE! I've evened the score, to my utter 
call4354. EXCELLENT CONDITION Beanie Always Falling lnbetweeny, &CALIFORNIA SUITE: delight. .. 
BEST OFFER -CALL PAUL IN -10 phrases of wisdom for your 10. THANK GOD THE TEACHER FINAL DAY!!! Now I can turn my attention to FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd CHICAGO 312·235-6959 19th year: IS HERE! (TACKLE) tonight. floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91. 1. Avoid short s-words 9. VICTIM OF MY DORMANT Auditions for "The Comedy of Be certain, my friend, I'll get the Call Matt @3472. 2. Never trade tuna for bologna FEELINGS OF PASSION Errors" will be held today at better of you
I 
TICKETS 3. Don't fall, Jeannie, don't fall. 8. I DIDN'T MARRY HIM; I Theodore's from 6-9 p.m. All Love always, your friend in four-forty 
4. Tie back your hair with your own DIVORCED HIM! interested in either acting or two.
WANTED rubberband. 7. YOU'RE STANDING UP, BUT production please attend. ~ 1 RT CHICAGO-PHOENIX OR 5. Cakes! Cakes! Cakes! YOUR EYES ARE SITTING Ride needed to South Florida for EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK ORANGE COUNTY 3/6-3/18. 6. Worship God. DOWN THE GENERICS break. Will share $. READING BOOKS AT HOME. NAME A PRICE-X1779 ned 7. Be sure to go to the Mall to get 6. EASY, EASY NOW! Call 284-5190. CALL 1 -61 5-4 73-7 440 EXT. B 340. some Zuba's! 5. WHAT CURSE, POST-HO? At BRIDGET'S, Friday Nite, 
Buy a rd trp tix to Padre for Break, 8. Watch those Chinese Sunburns! 4. CAN'T YOU KEEP IT IN YOUR 10-2. They were busted LAST Will pay $100 for ride to S. Florida I NEED ride to Boston call x4833 9. Don't have a massive break-out PANTS? week, chances are slim for a repeat. for break. Call #4274 Will split gas & driving and get two zits a year. 3. LEON!! Think about it... See ya there! March 7, 8, or 9 10. Walk like a duck. 2. IF IT'S FLAT, SQUARE, AND Derek x1373 HAS FOUR LEGS, THEN YES K's Priorities after THE Meet Marianne (Subs), 
!PERSONALS! 

Happy Birthday, Barbie big boobs!! 1. *HAACK* THPTOO! 1) Food Congratulations on the elections!! ROCHESTER, NY; I need a ride for FUR BALL 2) Sleep We shall celebrate this weekend spring break; call John x3371 I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia for Love, 3) Robo (and I won't be crabby). Mickey 
Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will Troop 700 and the rest of the BREAK A LEG, GUYS!! CARA 4) Swimming mouse is happy for you too. He I NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY FOR enjoy my company. BARBIES!!! • I'm moving up in the world. wants a copy of your poster and SPRING BREAK :WILL PAY HALF Yenchna! Yenchna! Good luck. another's. Good luck!!!! GAS/TOLLS-MIKE x3589 I need a ride to rochester, n.y. for stay tuned for another love, Rob love, 
spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a round of the gorilla vs. Your wonderful( usually) roommate!!! 
Help!! great rider. Do you not have a clue about how the orangutan! FIVE O'CLOCK SHADOWS I need a ride to New Jersey or NYC you are getting back to ND after me Fri 3/1 at Senior Bar Hi Rich!!! Love, me on spring break!! SPRING BREAK SPECIAL spring break is over? Do you live in Sat 3/2 at Club 23 
JJ X4842 SAVE SAVE SAVE!! the New England area? Can you Photography for Formals-Halls­They're live! They're original! Toddles, We WANT You!!!!!!!!! 
CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF drive a stick? WOULD YOU LIKE A Dances-ROTC. Call IHS They love everyone! Need ride to N. VA, Bait. or DC area FUN AND SUN!! RIDE? If you answered yes to any Photography at 234-8539. HI MELISSA!!! Aren't we having so for spring break. Will help pay SUN SPLASH TOURS of these questions, give me a call. I LawNmoWEr much fun???? We definately are expenses. 1-800-426-7710. need a passenger for the return trip acE oF SpADes the production goddesses! 
Chris 1235. only. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY RefriDgerAtOr 
SENIORS -TAKE THE ROAD -Moire x4914 CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. Lead PoisOning THE TUTUS ARE COMING!!!!!!! NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO LESS TRAVELLED. Consider pipE cLEANer OR OXFORD VICINITY ON doing a year of service work with •• Spring Break Money •• REMoTE CoNTRol Japanese Queen--CONGRATS!I MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY$$$. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. Notre Dame Fed Credit Union YellOw thumBtaCks Remember always-Hitler, Napoleon CALL KATIE X2862. Sites in Portland, Oakland, Phoenix, HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY No Co-Signer Necessary diCtionaRy and all world emperors are short 
Colorado Springs, South Bend, and JORGE!! •• See Our Ad •• LiGHT bulb and have insecuriy complexes!!! Brockton. Applications due MARCH Thanks for being such a great friend Gold tOOth Need ride to Phila for Break. 20. Contact M.A.White (5521) or these past four years. Good thing -ERD 
Nowleutng

Ed 3317 Will split expenses M.A.Roemer (7949). you live in Peurto Rico -I can visit ***SENIOR FORMAL1991*** you every year! Have a great (April 19·21 in Chicago) 
FAYETTE SQUARE SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY ATTENTION! ATTENTION! birthday! Sign up for rooms. tables. flowers, U'r the 1 who makes bathtime 
TOWNHOMES is looking for a guitarist. If ATTENCION! love, tuxedos, &activities lots of fun, Rubber Ducky I'm 
4 l 5 BEDROOM UNITS 

interested, call Thorn X3334 TAKE YOUR FRUSTRATIONS OUT Kathleen awfully fond of you! It all 
AVAI\.ABLE 

or Kevin X3347. ON THOSE WILD &RECKLESS March 5+6 from 6-9 PM in started w/a kiss behind the shed & Aa1anlt!ts lodyde'
LYONITES! Theodore's has grown into a wonderful bond of 
-WASHER & DRYER

I 
CREAM YOUR FAVORITE March 7 from 6-9 PM in LeMans love and 
-SECURITY SYSTEM

LYONITE. SIGN-UPS AT THE I NEED A RIDE HOME TO friendship!
[ FOR RENT 
-DISHWASHER

DINING HALLS DURING DINNER CLEVELAND ON FRIDAY MARCH -CENTRAL AIR
TIME. 8. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND Going to Syr, NY 4 break? Happy 2-month Anniversary! GRAD. WEEKEND TAKES PLACE UNDER THE ARCH TOLLS. CALL KATHIE@ Need plane tix cheap? Call 
-PATIOS BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY AT 4:30 FRIDAY, 4045. x3623 lwuvU! 
ONLY A F~W APARTMENTS 219-291-7153. MARCH 1,1991. Dude 
LEFTI FOR r.«>RE N=O NOW. 
"' -~ l
... 
232-8251 • l .


L..--.=.;:-----­
Friday, March 1, 1991


SCOREBOARD
page 16 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE  
Atlantic Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Boston 41  15  .732  
Philadelphia 31  24  .564  9112  
New YorK 26  31  .456  15 112  
Washington 22  34  .393  19  
New Jersey 19  37  .339  22  
Miami 17  39  .304  24  
Central Dlvlelon  
Chicago 40  14  .741  
Detroit 37  21  .638  5  
Milwaukee 35  22  .614  6112  
Atlanta 32  25  .561  9112  
Indiana 25  30  .455  15 112  
Cleveland 20  36  .357  21  
Charlone 17  38  .309  23 112  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midw"t Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Utah 36  18  .667  
San Antonio 35  18  .660  112  
Houston 32  23  .582  4 112  
Danas 21  33  .389  15  
Orlando 19  36  .345  17 112  
Minnesota 18  37  .327  18 112  
Denver 15  40  .273  21 112  
Pacific Divlalon  
Portland 44  13  .772  
LA Lakers 41  15  .732  2112  
Phoenix 36  19  .655  7  
Golden State 29  26  .527  14  
Seanle 26  28  .481  16 112  
LA Clippers 18  36  .333  24 112  
Sacramento 15  39  .278  27 112  
Thuraday'a Gamea  
lall Game Not InclUded  
Miarri 100, Detroit 98  
New Jersey 98, Milwaukee 93  

New York 100, San Antonio 93 
Atlanta 117, Portland 109 
LA Lakers 121, Denver 108 
Houston at LA Cl~rs, (n) 
Frlc:lay'e Gamea Cleveland at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Portland at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. San Antonio at Boston, 8 p.rn Utah at Detroit, 8 p.m. Dallas at Chicago. 8:30p.m. Washington at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. Sacramento at Phoenix, 9:30p.m Char1otte at Seattle, 10 p.m. Orlando at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms with Bob MHac:kl, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Ken Griffey, Jr., out1ielder, on a two-year contract, and Jose Melendez, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
TEXAS RANGERs-Agreed to terms with Juan Gonzalez, outfielder, and Jose Hernandez, infielder. on one-year contracts. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with AI Leiter, pitcher, and Rob Ducey and Derek Bell, out1ielders. on one-year contracts. 
National league 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms with Jim Neidlinger and Dave Walsh, p~chers, and Greg Smith, Infielder. on one-year contracts. 
PITISBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to terms with Mike Roesler and Mike YorK, pitchers; Tom Prince, catcher; Orlando Merced, llrst baseman; and Steve Carter, outfielder; on one-year contracts. Signed Doug Bair, pitcher. to a minor league contract. 
BASKETBALL Netlonal Baeketball A11oclatlon 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Activated Akeem Olajuwon. center, from the Injured list. Placed Man Bullard, forward, on the Injured list. 
HOW THE TOP 25 FARED 
How the A11oclated Preaa' Top 25 women'a teame fared Thuraday: 
1. Virginia (26-1) did not play. 
2. 
Penn State (25-1) beat •24 George Washington 77-62. 

3. 
Georgia (25-2) did not play. 

4. 
Tennessee (23-4) did not play. 

5. 
Auburn (23-4) did not play. 

6. 
Purdue (23-2) did not play. 

7. 
North Carolina State (23-5) did not play. 

8. 
Arkansas (24-3) did not play. 

9. 
Washington (20-3) did not play. 

10. 
Stanford (21-4) did not play. 

11. 
Western Kentucky (23-2) did not play. t2. LSU (21-6) did not play. 


13. 
Connecticut (23-4) did not play. 

14. 
TaKas (19-7) did not play. 

15. 
UNLV (23-5) beat Fresno State 72-69. 

16. 
Providence (23-4) did not play. 

17. 
Rutgers (22-5) lost to West llirginia 89-78. 

18. 
Mississippi (1 9-7) did not play. 

19. 
S. F. Austin (23-4) beat McN98Se St. 101-41. 

20. 
Northwestern (17·7) did not play. 2t.lowa (17-7) did not play. 


22. 
Notre Dame (20-S) lost to Dayton 79-76. 

23. 
Long Beach State ( 18-7) did not play: 



24. 
George Washington (21·5) lost to •2 Penn State 77-82. 


25. Lamar (25-2) did not play. 
IRISH WOMEN'S BOX 
FLYERS 71, IRISH 78 
NOTRE DAME (76) 
Knapp 3-6 2-2 9, Davis 13-17 4-5 30, Nowlin 3-9 0-0 6, Robinson 5-17 4·4 t4, Washington 1-4 t-4 3, Llebscher 4·10 2-3 12, Orlosky 1·2 0-0 0, AleKander 0-1 0-0 0, Leary 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 3-68 
13-18 76. DAYTON (71) 
Arnold 7-9 0-0 14, Green 4-8 0-0 8, Goodman 10-18 4·5 24, Saunder 1-6 6-7 8, Stein 4-8 2·2 10, Meineke 2-2 0-0 4, Potee 4-9 0-0 8, Hll 0-6 3-4 3, Wecbsser 0-1 0-0 0. Totals32-67 15-18 79. 
Halftime--Dayton 36, Notre Dame 30. 3-polnt goals-Notre Dame 3-6 (Knapp 1·1, Robinson 0-1, Washington 0-1, Llebscher 2·5), Dayton 0-4 (Saunder 0-1, Stein 0-3). Fouled out-Davis, Nowlin. Rebounds-Notre Dame 40 (Knapp, Nowlin 8), Dayton 38 (Arnold 8). Assists-Notre Dame 25 (Robinson 11), Dayton 25 (Saunder 7). Total louis-Notre Dame 22, Dayton 15. A-400. 
AP MEN'S TOP 25 

How the Alaoclalld Prell' Top 25 teama fared Thuradey: 
1. UNLV (26-0) did not play. Next: at Fullerton L10 S1reak Home Away Conf 
St., Saturday. 7-3 Won 1 25-4 16-11 24-11 
2. Ohio State (24·1) did not play. Next: vs. 7-3 Won 6 20-7 11·17 22-12 
Michigan St .. Sunday.6-4 Won 4 13-17 13-14 16-19 
3. 
Arkansas (28-2) did not play. Next: at Texas,2-8 lost 4 15-10 7-24 14-21 

Sunday.5·5 Won 2 14-15 5-22 12-22 

4. 
North Carolina (22-4) beat Georgia Tech 91­5-5 Won 1 12-18 5-21 10-27 


74. Next: vs . .a Duke, Sunday. 

5. Indiana (24-4) beat Michigan St. 62·56. Next: 
at Wisconsin. Saturday. 10-0 Won 10 24-3 16-11 26-7 
6. 
Syracuse (25-4) did not play. Next: vs. 3·7 lost 4 23-5 14-16 25-12 

Georgetown, Sunday. 6-4 lost 1 24-4 11·18 23-13 

7. 
Arizona (23-5) a1 Oregon St.. Next: at Oregon,6-4 Won 1 23-6 9-19 17-19 


Saturday.6-4 lost 2 18-9 7-21 16-18 
8. Duke (24-6) did not play. Next: vs. '-4 North 5-5 Won 1 14-16 6-20 13-22 
Carolina. Sunday. 3·7 Won 1 12-16 5-22 10-25 9. Utah (25-2) did not play. Next: at Brigham Young, Saturday. 
10. Kansas (21·5) did not play. Next: at •15 
Nebraska, Sunday. L10 Streak Home Away Conf 11. New Mexico State (22-4) beat Pacific U. 67· 7·3 Won 1 25-4 11-14 26-10 60. Next: vs. Fresno St.• Saturday. 4·6 lost 1 21-6 14·12 24-12 12. Oklahoma State (21-5) did not play. Next: at 8-2 Won 3 20-8 12-15 19-16 Iowa St., Saturday. 4-6 Won 1 13-13 8-20 12-22 13. Kentucky (21-6) did not play. Next: vs. 7-3 Won 4 14-14 5-22 15-22 Aubum, Saturday. 2-8 Lost 1 13-14 5-23 13-27 14. Southern Mlsslnlppl (21·5) beat 1·9 Lost 3 12-16 3-24 7-28 Southeastern Louisiana 85-60. Next: at Tulane. 
Saturday. 

15. Nebraska (23-6) did not play. NeKt: vs. •10 5·5 Lost 3 28-3 16-10 27-10 Kansas, Sunday. 6-4 Won 1 22-5 19-10 26-9 16. UCLA (20·7) at Washington St.. Next: at 6-4 Lost 1 21-5 15-14 23-13 Washington, Sunday. 3-7 Lost 4 18-8 11·18 18-19 17. St. John's (20-6) did not play. Next: at 5-5 Won 2 17-6 9-20 13-17 DePaul, Saturday. 3-7 Lost 1 14-12 4-24 14-20 18. LSU (20-7) did not play. Next: at 123 3-7 Lost 7 14-12 1-27 10-22 Mississippi St., Saturday. 
19. East Tennessee State (25-4) did not play. Next: Southam Conference tournament. 
Saturday'• Gamea 

20. Seton Hall (18-8) did not play. Next: Big East
Chicago at Indiana, 7-::IJ p.m. Conference tournannent.
New YorK at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 

21. Princeton (21·2) did not play. Next: at
LA Cl~rs at Minneso1a. 8 p.m. Harvard, Friday. 
Miami at Dallas, 8:30p.m. 

22. Plnsburgh (20·9) did not play. Next: vs.
Orlando at Denver, 9:30p.m. Connedicut, Saturday. 
Sacramento at Seanle, 10 p.m. Char1one at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 

23. Mississippi State (19-7) did not play. Next: vs. •18 LSU, Saturday. 
24. Alabama (17·9) did not play. Next: vs. Portland a1 Boston, 1 p.m. 
Sunday'a Gamea 
Tennessee, Saturday. 

25. Virginia (20-9) did not play. NeKt: vs. San Antonio at Washington, 1 p.m. 
Utah at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
Maryland, Saturday. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Dlvlalon  
w  L  T  
NY Rangers  32  22  12  
Philadelphia  31  27  8  
Pittsburgh  32  29  4  
New Jersey  27  27  11  
Washington  28  32  5  
NY Islanders  21  36  9  
Adame  Dlvllion  
x-Boston  37  20  8  
x-Montreal  32  25  8  
Buffalo  24  25  16  
Hartford  28  30  7  
Quebec  12  42  11  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlalon 
w l T x-St. Louis 39 18 8 x-Chicago 39 21 6 Detroit 28 31 8 Minnesota 21 32 12 Toronto 18 40 7 
Smythe Dlvllion x-L011 Angeles 37 20 7 Calgary 35 22 7 Edmonton 30 30 4 Winnipeg 23 33 11 Vancouver 24 36 7 
x-cfinched playoff berth 
Tueeday'a Gamea 
Late Game Not Included Boston 5, N.Y. Islanders 0 Buffalo 5, Quebec 1 Chicago 6, Hartford 3 
N.V. Rangers 4, St. Louis 4, tie Winnipeg at Los Angeles. (n) 
Frlc:lay'a Game. New Jersey at Detroit, 7:35 p.rn Pittsburgh at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Montreal at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
Pte 76 70 68 65 61 51 
82 72 
64 
63 35 
Pte 86 84 
64 54 
43 
81 77 
64 
57 
55 GF 248 219 279 227 208 188 
243 221 
226 196 
184 
GF 260 221 234 205 195 
274 271 221 225 
206 
GA Home Away Dlv 208 19-9-6 13-13-6 12-9-5 205 17-12·5 14·15-3 11-12-6 251 21·11·1 11·18-3 15-12·1 217 19-8-7 8-19-4 1 t-13-5 226 16-11·3 12-21-2 15-12·3 244 12-16-6 9-20-3 9-15-4 
215 22·7-3 15-13-5 15·7·3 205 19-11-3 13-14-5 12-10-4 222 11·1t·10 13-14-6 8-t0-7 219 16-13-3 12·17-4 9-11-4 295 6-19-7 6-23-4 6-12-6 
GA Home Away Dlv 206 21·6-6 18-12-2 15-8-2 173 22-7-3 17-14-3 15-7-3 250 23-11-0 5-20-8 12·12-3 221 13-14·6 8·18-6 7·13-4 270 12-20-2 6-20-5 7-16-2 
204 20-8-4 17-12-3 13-7-4 208 20-7·2 15-15-5 13-7·3 216 18-11·2 12·19-2 10-12-2 238 15-15-5 8-18-6 8-8-6 258 15-14-4 9-22·3 8-18-1 
Saturday'• Gamee Buffalo at Boston, 1 :35 p.m. St. Louis at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m. Hartford at Quebec, 7:35 p.rn 
N.Y. Islanders at Washington. 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Calgary, 8:05p.m Montreal at Edmonton. 8:05 p.m. NY Rangers at Toronto. 8:05p.m. Winnipeg at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Sunday'• Gamea Toronto at Hartford, 7:05 p.rn Boston at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Vancouver at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 
Atlanta at Milwaukee, 2:30p.m. Houston at LA Lakers, 3:30p.m. LA Clippers a1 Detrolt, 7 p.m. 
, 

UTAH JAZZ-Placed Blue Edwards, forward, on the Injured list. Signed Tony Brown, guard, to a 10­day contract 
World Baeketball League FLORIDA JADES-Signed Clinton Ransey, forward. 
FOOTBALL National Football League 

LOS ANGELES RAM5-Signed Allred Jackson, cornerback; Derrick Carr, defensive end, and Jim Price, tight end. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Announced the retirement of Carl Hairston, defensive lineman. SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Signed George Radachowsky, defensive back. 
Canadian Football League 

OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Shawn Daniels, fullback, to a two-year contract. Signed Brock Smith, slotback. 
HOCKEY National Hockey league 

DETROIT RED WINGS-sent John Chabot, center, to Adirondack of the American Hockey League. 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Jamie Huscroft, delensemen, from Utica of the American Hockey League. 
WINNIPEG JETS-Traded Tom Draper. goaltender, to the St. Louis Blues for future considerations. 
SOCCER American Profe11lonal Soccer league SALT LAKE CITY STING-Named Valery Volostnykh coach lor the 1991 season. 
So you say you're creative? 
Then put your talents to use at The Observer where you can gain practical experience and get paid at the same time. We are currently seeking reliable and creative Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students to fill the following positions: 
Ad Design Manager 
We need someone who is interested in computer-assisted design or who is interested in advertising. The Ad Design Manager is responsible for using Macintosh computers to create professional advertisements for Observer clients. Applicant must be motivated, organized and responsible. We will train. Hours: Approximately 2-3 hrs. Sunday through Thursday afternoons. 
Art Director: 

We need someone who has experience in computer graphics and who demonstrates artistic ability. The Art Director is reponsible for formatting Associated Press graphics and creating original computer graphics. The Art Director is also in charge of illustrations for the newspaper. Hours: Vary depending on individual's schedule and number of support staff. 
Anyone interested in these positions should submit a two-page personal statement and a resume by 5 pm, Friday, March 1, to Kelley Tuthill. Any questions should be directed to either Kelley or Lisa at 239-7471. 

Friday, March 1, 1991 The Observer page 17 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
Louisville. Missouri and DePaul 
in their last three games. 
Dayton was a significant bright spot on this year's Notre Dame highlight film, as Daimon Sweet scored 28 points (a career high), Keith Tower racked up 21 points and hauled down 17 rebounds (a career high). Elmer Bennett scored 24 and handed out 7 assists as well. 
Tim Singleton, meanwhile, netted had six points and six assists. Kevin Ellery. like Singleton appearing in his final game at the JACC, chipped in eight points and six rebounds. The Dayton game was the first time in nearly three years (March 7, 1988) that three Irish players scored 20 or more points. 
The Cardinals will be led by the backcourt tandem of LaBradford Smith and Everick Sullivan. Junior Cornelius Holden, Louisville's third­leading scorer, will also be counted on to do most the the rebounding for the Cardinals. Sophomores Derwin Webb, a 6­4 forward, and Troy Smith, a 6­8 center, will round out the starting lineup. 
.. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS i.AST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off-Campus Sign-ups: February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. On-Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in your respective dorms. 
"Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Cashmir-Ford Street neighborhood. This project needs your support. Questions??? Please Call: Isabel Navarrete x1314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheilbel x1739 
Come Watch Irish Hoops on 5 TVs 
•Nightly Specials 
• Dart Tournaments 
Fri + Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 

Sabres slam hapless Nordiques; Bruins win 
QUEBEC (AP) Dave Andreychuk scored the tie­breaker in the second period and Benoit Hogue clinched it with two third-period goals as the Buffalo Sabres beat the hapless Quebec Nordiques 5-1 Thursday night behind the strong goaltending of Clint Malarchuk.· 
The Nordiques; last in the overall standings and now win­less in their last 12 games, have been a nemesis for the Sabres. with three victories and two ties in six games this season before the latest meeting. 
The Sabres went ahead 1-0 only 64 seconds into the game when defenseman Grant Ledyard's slap shot seemed to dip on Quebec goaltender Jacques Cloutier. 
Paul Gillis tied it for Quebec at 2:37 of the second period, but Andreychuk put Buffalo ahead for good less than a minute later. only 25 seconds after a high -sticking penalty to the Nordiques' Tony Twist. 
Pierre Turgeon then scored at 
2:04 of the third period to make it 3-1. Turgeon's goal, on which he had a clear breakaway from the blue line in, and the two goals by Hogue, at 7:55 and 12:20, settled the outcome. 
But until Turgeon's back­breaker, Malarchuk, a former Nordique who had lost all three starts against his former 
teammates this season, was a 
pillar for the Sabres. He foiled 
Mike Hough at least four times 
and made superb stops twice on 
Joe Sakic and Scott Pearson, 
including a breakaway save on 
the latter when the Sabres held 
a 2-1 lead in the second period. 
Malarchuk made 28 saves, in­cluding 13 in the opening pe­riod. 
The Nordiques, already thin on defense after losing Curtis Leschyshyn for the season with a knee injury, had Alexei Gusarov leave the game in the second period when he fell over Mike Ramsey's oustretched leg and fell on his right knee. 
Bruins 5, Islanders 0 
Rookie Ken Hodge had his second hat trick for a season's total of 22 goals and goaltender Andy Moog recorded his 12th career shutout Thursday night as the Boston Bruins overpowered the New York Islanders 5-0. 
Ray Bourque assisted on all three Hodge goals and added one himself to run his personal scoring streak to seven goals and 23 assists for 30 points in the last 21 games. 
Moog, making his first start in the Boston net since a Jan. 31 knee injury, had 19 saves in chalking up his third shutout of the season. 

is currently accepting applications for the paid position of 


Accent Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit a one-page personal statement to John O'Brien at The Observer by 5 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 or call John at 239-5303. 

We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept 
grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social functions, team sports and much, 
much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
-featuring ­1-Bedrooms from $285 • Planned .~ivnies Program 2-Bedrooms from $345 
Efficiencies from $270 
+ 
Beautiful Clubhouse &Pool 

+ 
Air Condnioning • Cable TV Available 


• Dispcsal • Laundry Rooms272-1880 + Basketball Court 

• Picnic Tables &Grills Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, 
+ Volleyball Court • Gazebo Sat. 1 0-4 and Sun. 12-4 • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
*Ask about the Hickory Village Summer BrHze ... the easy and economical way to keep your apartment through the summer and still go home. 

rHlCKORlj • VlLLAYE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 

$15 NO APPLICATION FEE!
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory VIllage. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the
1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 
$15 application fee will be waived. 
ExplrH 911191 15 
\ '\ 


'\ 
·\ 
\ 
I 
~ 
' 
\ 
\ \ I 
: \ 
) 
) 
1 
) 
\ I 
l l 
' 
I 
l 
j l 


Bengals 
continued from page 24 
lenge in his final opponent, Lou Hall. 
Hall, a transfer from Elmhurst College in Illinois, has been impressive in earning two three-round decisions. His semifinal bout with Michael Butler was one of the hardest­fought contests yet seen, and Hall showed his stamina with the victory. 
Though Brian Stokes was bloodied early in his 130-pound semifinal match with Drew Dougherty, the defending champion survived to earn a unanimous decision over the determined junior. In the other semifinal at 130, Timothy Phelan won a split decision vic­tory against Pat Owens. 
Both Phelan and Stokes will need even more determination when they meet in a rematch of last year's 127-pound champi­onship confrontation. In that fight, Stokes won a split deci­sion after three rounds of closely contested boxing. 
The Phelan-Stokes matchup will be first fight on the card Friday night. Bouts will begin at 8 p.m. in the North Dome of the 
Cheaney's 18 lead Indiana past Spartans 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­Indiana's Calbert Cheaney engi­neered fast starts at the begin­ning of both halves Thursday night and the second one proved fatal for Michigan State. 
Cheaney scored 18 points in leading No. 5 Indiana to a 62­56 Big Ten victory over Michigan State. 
"Once I get the ball, I just shoot it," Cheaney said. "I have to keep moving and using the screens, so I get open and I did a better job in the second half." 
Cheaney scored five points as Indiana opened the game with a 7-0 start. Then he started the second half with six points in an 8-0 Indiana start as the Hoosiers broke a 33-all half­time tie and led the rest of the way. 
"The key was the good sart in the second half," Indiana coach Bob Knight said. "Cheaney didn't have real good movement in the first half. He did in the second half." 
The victory gave the Hoosiers (24-4, 12-3 Big Ten) a sweep of the season series with the Spartans. 
"We said the start of the sec­ond half would be the most im­portant part of the game," Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote said. 

page 18 The Observer Friday, March 1, 1991 

Men's tennis team will face Buckeyes in Columbus 
By DAVE MCMAHON At number-one singles, Notre team. At six-feet, four-inches Sports Writer Dame junior All-American Dave tall, he could present an inter­DiLucia will continue to face the esting test for Irish sophomore 
After coming off last week's best competition possible. This Chuck Coleman. 
11th-place finish in the National weekend the competition "He can be brilliant and he Indoor Team Championships, happens to be yet another fa­can also be inconsistent," said the 13th-ranked Notre Dame miliar opponent. Bayliss. 
men's tennis team (8-5) Ty Tucker, who like DiLucia At three-singles, Sam ventures to the unfriendly was ranked in the juniors top Sebastian, a transfer from Ohio confines of Columbus, Ohio, 10 coming out of high school, University, has what Bayliss Saturday night to face the hasn't lost a home match in his terms a pro-level forehand and unranked Buckeyes. career at Ohio State. uses it consistently from the 
While the Irish have won the "He's as quick as any big man baseline rather than coming up last two matches between the playing tennis," Bayliss said. to the net. two teams, including a 6-3 DiLucia, ranked seventh na­home victory last year, coach tionally, brings an 11-match After the tournament last Bob Bayliss believes the away winning streak into the contest. week, the Irish are a bit worn match could present the Irish "I really like the way DiLucia out, but don't expect them to with some problems. is playing right now. He had falter i9 their important re­
"They don't play a great some great wins at the indoor gional test against Ohio State. 
schedule," said Bayliss. "but tournament." they always seem to come up At two-singles for the "Everybody's tired, but we've \\jth the big wins in the middle Buckeyes is Gabor Koves, the got a lot ahead of us," said of the season that allow them to top junior in Czechoslovakia Bayliss. "The schedule doesn't 
get into the top 20." and a member of its national let up." 
Joyce ACC. 

Defending champion Kevin Max, boxing at 185 pounds, will win his class on a walkover. His scheduled opponent in the finals, Tom Sullivan, developed internal bleeding in his nose during his unanimous decision over former champion Mike O'Neill, and will be unable to fight for the 185-pound title. 
Max, who won his first-round decision over Paul Amann, also walked O'-:er his semifinal bout when Sean Gilboy could not box. 
Two returning Bengal Bouts finalists will meet at 155 pounds when Colin Mullaney faces Shane Hitzemann. Mullaney was defeated by Armetta last year and by Wate in 1989 in finals, while Hitzemann came up short in the 1990 150-pound championship. 
At 140 pounds, Joe Carrigan will fight Derek Bartlett. Carrigan defeated two-time champion John Manfredy in a controversial split decision semifinal bout. Manfredy won a hard-fought unanimous deci­sion over Bartlett in last year's 134-pound championship. 
Only one freshman has ad­vanced to this year's finals. Jeff Gerber will box Mike Jennings in the 135-pound final. Gerber, who won a convincing victory over Mark Tierney in his semi­final bout, enjoys a sizable reach advantage over Jennings. Jennings, on the other hand, uses a very powerful hook and has a variety of other explosive weapons in his arsenal. However, the senior has a ten­dency to fight out of control, and this may hurt him against the precise Gerber. 


The 145-pound championship will match defending champion Eric Milito and Matt Mullarkey. Both Milito and Mullarkey earned dominating unanimous decisions over Bobby Burke and David Dauenhauer, respectively, in their semifinal bouts. 
Both combatants at 160 pounds also won unanimous decisions Wednesday night. John Sordi, who fought in the 158-pound final last year, will battle Chris Toner in this fight. Both of these boxers are big hitters, and should provide fireworks. 
The heavyweight division will mark the last fight of the evening. With only two fighters in this division, neither Mike McCarthy or Dan Ward has had an opportunity to display his skills in the ring. 
0 
The Observer/Kenneth Osgood Ryan Lee and the Notre Dame men's tennis team will try to record a victory over Ohio State for the third straight year on Saturday. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN 







LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER &DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT~ 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 

232-8256 
• 


• •
•

• 
• 
•
• 

• 
•
• 
• •
•
• • 

.•••• 
•
• 
.....
•
•
• 
• 
•
•
•

• •
• •
•
• 

• •
•

• 
• 
.... • 
• 
• 
d"'\
• 

• • 
• 

•
• 
•
• 
• •• Friday March 1, 7:00 p. m. and 9:30 p. m. •• • •• CushingAuditorium •••• • •• • 
: All donations to benefit the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center are : :• graciously accepted :• 
• 
-···················································································································· 
.

-.. • -fl ~-. ,.1' ...... 
~ ~ " ~ t. ~ ,. • p lj ' ~ -,; o • t ;,. ~ ;-·• a. ~ ::>-P r .. • .::>-.. • • tr; c, • f 7 • ·--:. t 'f • • • • t " ~ :> • 1 • ,; It Ill lit 1l : ~ ":. -~ ' ~ o;. of. ' ~~ 
• '"' .• .. ~ .. r I c ~ • .. b .• ... till ~ ~ b .. -.... b ~ '1: • • ... • .• ' • • • • • • ' 6 • II ,_ 411. ~ • • ~ 





--~--­)' ------.-----------....,--,..---------------------.---------------..-!-----------­
~ 
page 20 
Gathers case still open one year after his death 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -One year after Hank Gathers col­lapsed on a basketball court and died, his name still comes up almost every day -in court briefs, depositions and notices of appeal. 
More than 30 lawyers from seven different firms coast to coast have made the Loyola Marymount star the subject of suits and countersuits, accusa­tions and denials, and the string of litigation has spawned acrimony among those closest to him. 
Gathers, a senior forward, was intent on leading the Lions to their third straight West Coast Conference tournament title March 4 when, following one of his trademark dunks in a game against Portland, he dropped to the floor. He was pronounced dead less than two hours later. 
The cause of death was found to be cardiomyopathy, a heart disorder. 
A jury likely will decide who or what contributed to Gathers' death and any culpability. 
In the meantime, heavy pub­licity surrounding the $32.5 million wrongful death suit filed by Gathers' mother, brother, aunt and a 7 -year-old son born out of wedlock has drawn battle lines between the family and 14 defendants, among them former Loyola Marymount coach Paul Westhead, the university and doctors who treated Gathers before and after his collapse. 
The litigation even has cast a shadow over efforts by wee of­ficials to commemorate Gathers' death at this year's tourney, where there will be a pause to remember him at 


Texas 
continued from page 24 
a doubleheader with traditional NAIA power St. Mary's Saturday, and another twinbill against Trinity Sunday. The Irish are 5-9 against St. Mary's and 8-0 versus Trinity. 
"I believe we can win all five games," said Murphy, whose squads have pulled off early­season upsets against Top-20 powerhouses Texas and Miami in past years. "And I believe we will win all five-we're just going to go down there and do it." 
A move that Murphy said he has been considering for the past year is putting senior Mike Coss at catcher. Coss' traditional position, shortstop, probably will be filled by Craig Counsell, who usually plays third. In Counsell's place, Murphy could put Cory Mee. 
"Coss can make transition fairly easily to catcher," said Murphy, "and his arm is strong to throw out baserunners. It (the transition) could be a nice thing to have him help out (freshman Matt) Ha:as there." 
Otherwise, the Irish will keep most other positions as they are. 
"The important thing is that Monday's championship. 
"The litigation really limits what we can appropriately do," said assistant wee commis­sioner Don Ott, adding that the conference wrestled with the problem. "But everybody is re­membering him this week." 
"We can never forget the im­pact Hank had on the confer­ence and the tournament," Ott said. "He was the tournament MVP twice." 
There will be no public com­memoration at Loyola Marymount, where Gathers was the nation's scoring and rebounding leader in 1988-89. The school's athletic director, former trainer and team doctor all are defendants in the suit, which also names the univer­sity. 
Although the suit was filed last April, the first settlement conference is set for March 9. That may not come off, though, since even the defendants can't agree on strategy. 
"Some (defendants) are indi­cating they're not interested in participating," said Wayne Boehle, who represents Loyola Marymount. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•ND/SMC Sailing: will host at Spring Cleaning party Saturday, March 2 at 12:30 p.m. All members old and new are encouraged to come to the boathouse and help. When we are finished, we will be rewarded. •Bookstore Basketball: Absolute final sign-ups will be held Tuesday, March 5 from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. Remember the $5.00 sign-up fee. This will be the last chance to sign-up.  

·­.:::.::: 0 ::J ..c: (.) >. ctS "0 .c t::·­m ~ (/) T­C\1 >. a. a. ctS J:  

Sisters of Nefertiti present 
AN EXPRESSION IN & R1lY1rfE 
Saturday, narch 2, 1991 at 8:00p.m. Saint Marg•s College Carroll Auditorium 
SMC/ND students will perform black poetry readings, dances, 
The Observer 


The Observer/David Lee Notre Dame will host the NCAA Midwest Regionals Saturday and Sunday at the Joyce ACC. 
American Heart Association 
Friday, March 1, 1991 



Fencers 
continued from page 24 
The epee squad is in excellent shape, with All-Americans David Calderhead and Jubba Beshin leading the way. Beshin won the NCAA individual title last year, while Calderhead closed out in the number-three spot. Freshman Greg Wozniak, who came from Poland to fence at Notre Dame, holds down the third spot in the starting lineup. 
This is the last year of eligi­bility for sabreman Leszek Nowosielski, and he is again the top man on the sabre squad. Nowosielski has lost only six matches out of the nearly 100 he has fenced in an Irish uniform. He will be joined on the sabre team by the Baguer brothers, senior captain Chris and junior Ed. 
Men's coach Mike DeCicco is optimistic about this team, and feels that it will be a force to be reckoned with at the Midwest Regional and at the NCAA Tournament. 
"I would expect to qualify all four teams, and two or three individuals in each weapon," said DeCicco. 
Although he considers com­parisons with the teams of 1977-79, teams that amassed· 122 wins in a row and two NCAA Championships, prema­ture, DeCicco thinks this team could be among the best ever at Notre Dame. 
"This team can challenge that (team), and maybe be even bet­ter than that," said DeCicco. 


fhB 5iiBDCB Of fhB 1Bmb5 
• 
'5AT & ~uJ MATINEE 2:00 ..,.,..,ON fR1 
~TUMI MUEASE ~ 

4:30-7:15-9:45 
9:30 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
'TOP-DRAWER 

TRUFFAUT!  
CHARLOTTE GAINSBOL'RG  
WILL STEAL YOl'R HEART~··  
Fl1(hard Frudrnmr  .\DIHOlSE _\III"SPAPEFI'  
"MAGICAl AND  
HILARIOUS! THE SC~IMER'S LOVELIEST  .  ~  •-' - 
SCRPRISE~"  

-Paa Trarm 1/IJLLJ.\t; 5ft 1.\E '----"'-'--.,..c.c=:_~'--~--....:-..!>d 

jodie foster anthony hopkins scott glenn 
SAT & SUN MATINEE 

/ 
115 
:4 ­
45 7:30­9:45 
we're continuing to play with 

skits, and songs.
the be~t (teams)," said Murphy. "We're trying to ensure against mental breakdowns and trying to keep the continuity of our PARTY in Haggar College Cente competition." 
e 1• Ie• 
with DJ to follow ceremony. 
~ .....,.,..... """""""'" ,............-.. ~......,..-~·• ""'•._., um.1 •uc••J 
~ f\11£1 \\1, n.ltR r-........liL ....._.11...
NOTE-Notre Dame's game MIA#.MAX 
(!) (!) AMIIWWFILIISRI'LI.A.Ill -ALl RM;HTSM!:~Uimo • --.---i.--.. ··-· 
against Texas will be broadcast 

Cinema at the Snlte
on WHME Radio 1 03.1 today at 

Admission to both is fREE!!!
2p.m. TONIGHT AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:45 
·' 

• ': .. { , .'t ~ ,t fJ , ... I _F • ; ,' t ; • , • • • • ~ 'I 4 i • " I • I .. • ~ ... • .. • ~ ~ r1 tl ' (! ( .. f ~ t (' • • I ,. . ~ •· ... " -f • " ' • • .•· 


' I I • -., 
.... ' -,. ­
' 

... , . . .. 
Friday, March 1, 1991 The Observer page 21 


Wrestlers return to· Normal for West Regionals 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team looks to return to Normal this weekend. 
Normal, Illinois, that is-sight of Illinois State University, host team of the 1991 NCAA Western Regional tournament. 
But the Irish aren't just look-. ing to go back to Normal, where they thumped the Cardinals 26­15 in their first dual meet of the season. 
The Irish are looking to send their Normal opponents into fits of rage. 
"This is our second season," said Notre Dame coach Fran McCann. "Everything else was just preliminaries. This will be a breath of fresh air for us. Our kids are excited and turning more to individual goals. Team goals are involved, but the major thing is for the kids to get to the NCAA Championships. 
"I think we're ready. I like our attitude. I hope that the type of competition we've been facing all year will pay off now. This is put-up time and the guys realize that this is what the season is all about. It is especially important for the young kids to get to the tour­nament. To get to the NCAA tournament in their first year is critical for the future. All the kids have to go into this week­end with the idea that they can make the NCAAs." 
The Western Region is com­posed of 11 midwest, indepen­dent schools. Traditionally, Northern Iowa· and Notre Dame have battled for the top spot. The rest of the schools participating are Marquette, Illinois State, Northern Illinois, Eastern Illinois, Drake, Southwest Missouri and Valparaiso. 
Scheduled to compete for the Irish are Chris Jensen (118 pounds), Marcus Gowens (126), Kyle Cadman (134), Jamie Boyd (142), Todd Layton (150), Emil Soehnlen (158), Mark Gerardi (167}, J.J. McGrew (177), Steve King (190), and Curt Engler (HWT). 
"We could have six or seven wrestlers seeded in the top two or three of their weight classes," postulated McCann. "The top two in each class go to the NCAA championships. We have a good shot at placing a bunch of wrestlers in the NCAAs, which is good for the program. If we can make the finals, chances are we will go to 

Tl')e Observer/David Lee 
The Irish wrestlers will travel to Normal, Ill. for the NCAA Western Regionals. 
"I wish J .J. was healthy," stated McCann, "because he will probably be second-seeded, and the top-seed wrestler is ranked third in the nation. J .J., if he was one-hundred percent, could beat him. We just hope he qualifies and can heal up for the NCAA tourney." 
NO's tourney hopes hurt in Dayton loss 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's 
basketball team's NCAA 
Tournament hopes suffered a 
serious blow Thursday night in 
a 79-7 6 loss at Dayton. 
Despite getting 30 points on 13 of 17 shooting from the field from senior forward Krissi Davis, the Irish (20-6) suffered their first loss after 37 straight Midwestern Collegiate Conference victories. 
Center Kaihra Goodman did most of the damage for the Flyers (15-12), notching 24 points and adding seven re­bounds. Forward Julie Arnold chipped in 14 points and eight rebounds for Dayton. 
The Irish shot just 13 of 34 from the field in falling behind 36-30 at the half. They whittled --,.. away at that deficit, however, and took the lead with 13:35 to play when senior Karen Robinson scored on a short jumper. Notre Dame extended that lead to 55-50 with 11:00 remaining when Sara Liebscher stole the ball and scored on a layup with an assist from Coquese Washington. 
Dayton refused to throw in the towel, though, and with 
3:36 to play the Flyers took the lead for good when Goodman hit a short jumper to make the score 68-6 7. 
Robinson scored 14 points for the Irish and Liebscher added 
12. Washington had 11 assists. 

American Heart .:a 
Association ~ 
the championships." 
In fact, two of the Irish wrestlers-Mark Gerardi and Steve King-are returning champions from last year's Regional meet. Notre Dame placed second at that meet 
(67.75 team points), just behind Northern Iowa. Five Irish wrestlers qualified for the NCAA Championships. 
Luckily for the Irish, they are, with one exception, back in good health. Chris Jensen and Curt Engler have recovered from late-season injuries, while 
J.J. McGrew is still nagged by a shoulder separation. 
Pizza\.o\Je.s Delivery & Carry out As near as your phone ' 271-0200 1740 South Bend Ave South Bend, IN FREE DELIVERY PIZZA SIZES: 10"' 12"' 14" I 16" toppings: Black Olives Green Peppers Mushrooms Canadian Bacon Ground Beef Onions Green Olives Jalapeno Peppers Pepperoni Morning Bacon Pineapple Sausage Tomatoes Anchovies Ham 2 Free Toppings 2 Free Toppings Buy one 12" Pizza with 4 toppings and get 2nd small medium large small medium large 1 0" 12" 14" 10" 12" 14" Pizza for only $4.00 $4.22 $6.11 $8.28 $4.22 $6.11 $8.28 Does not indude tax Free DeliveryDoes not include tax Does not include tax Not valid with any Free Delivery Free Delivery other offer Not valid with any Not valid with any other offer other otter EX? :H-91 EX? :H-91EXP~91 ·•~·~·•~w·•~~-~~•~•~•·•~•r•• •~7~••~•••••••••~•~·~·~· ~ ., ... ~'till ~ ~~ ..... 0 11k tilt -. .. ' .... '­0 ._ "" 'llo ._. A \r. t. .... 1a '..._ 0 'lo ~ .. ~ ~ ~ ... '"=­' ~­~ ~­..._ ,,_ ,., "' .-.. .., ,._J -.,  

page 22 The Observer Friday, March 1 , 1991 
Irish lacrosse team will try to build on last year's success 
' 
t 
{' 1 
' 

J 

'· 
'!...' 
~ 
·: 
By MARK MCGRATH Sports Writer 
Last year was a year of firsts for the Notre Dame lacrosse team. The team earned its first NCAA tournament bid and cracked the Top 20 in the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association poll where the Irish finished at No. 17. 
The Irish hope they will able to improve upon last year's success when they open the season Saturday at 1 p.m. against Canisius at the Loftus Sports Center. 
"We want people to realize that last year was not a fluke," said Pete Gillin, a senior defensemen. "This year should be a year in which we build upon our success from last year." 
In order to repeat the success from last year the Irish will have to look to their defense. 
The back line will start three seniors, tri-captains Dave Barnard, an All-Midwest selection last year, and Eamon McAnaney. They will be joined by Gillin. 
"This should be the best defense that Notre Dame has ever had," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "They (the seniors) are hard workers and have great experience." 
"The defense will be the reason for many wins this year," said Mike Sennett. "The experience the seniors bring will support the rest of the team." 
"Dave may be the best defensemen in the region;" said Corrigan. ''I'd like to see him play at a level where he can make a run at some national recognition." 
"Eamon is the emotional spark," said Mike Sennett. "He always comes to play." 
"Lurch (Pete Gillin) is a heads-up player," said McAnaney. "He's very aggressive and uses this aggression to pick-up ground balls." 
Returning defensemen Doug Murray, Pete Senger and Matt Umscheid should see action in the rotation. 
The rookies in the defense will have to work extremely hard to see action. Garrett Reilly and Kevin Murphy played on the same line at the Connecticut State Champion Wilton High School last year. They will be joined by Mike Moser (Kings Park HS, FL). 
At attack, the Irish lost Brian McHugh, the sixth-leading scorer in Irish history. However, the Irish return three attackmen and have four rookies who should be able to pick up where last year's unit left ofT. Leading the attack will be junior Mike Sullivan, the leading scorer (52 points) from last year. 
"Mike has improved more than any player I've ever seen," said Corrigan. 
Sullivan will be playing with senior tri-captain Mike Sennett who contributed 14 points last year. These two should provide a powerful scoring punch. 
"Mike is a very hard worker," said Barnard, "who leads by example." 
They will be playing with a very capable supporting cast. Junior Brian Schirf (9 points) and Bo Perriello (9 points) are the other returning attackmen. 
The Irish recruited well at attack. The Irish got Mark Hexamer (New Canaan, Conn.), Jeff Taddeo (Penfield, NY). Randy Colley (Wilton, Conn) and Rob Snyder (Geneva, NY}. Colley was an All-American at Wilton last year, but will not be able to play this year due to this fall. 
"Randy is a great player," said Gillin. "The loss of him will hurt both the attack and the defense. His size and skills made the defense get better . " 
The Irish are impressed with the play of Snyder. 

"He has been a big surprise," said Gillin. "He has become comfortable with the system and his size and skills make him a quality crease attackman." 
The midfield was hurt by the graduation of Dave Carey (24 points) and Mike Quigley (22 points). The midfield unit was also hurt by injuries. Joe Minutoli, Scott Musa, and Kevin Patrick have been hurt. Patrick will not play due to a knee injury and Musa may be able to play later in the year. Minutoli had a great preseason but will 
not be in action due  to  his  
injury.  
"While  we're  young  at  

midfield, we want to have a lot of people contribute," said Corrigan. "I don't think we're going to look at one or two guys to do well. But we're going to look to eight or nine guys that are going to help us." 
The midfield will be led by 


r ~ 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church 3rd Sunday in Lent 
Saturday, March 2 5:00pm, Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. Sunday, March 3 
10:00 am, Fr. Regis Duffy, O.F.M. 
11:45 am, Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 


ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'g STYL£ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
OOffiLPLP~ ill~dJffi~ 


''BOLG''!! 
Kevin Corrigan 

senior John Capano (10 points and 72 ground balls}. 
"John is a very talented and gifted player," said Barnard. "He will play a big role both offensively and defensively, and will be very important this year." 
Capano will be supported by sophomore sensation Brian Mayglothling (23 points}. Mayglothling, an All-American in both soccer and lacrosse at Wilton chose to give up his soccer career to concentrate solely on lacrosse. 
"I think Brian's a heck of a player," said Corrigan. "He's got all the ability and a great attitude. There's nothing he can't do. I think he's ready to bring his game up a notch." 
Ed Lamb will be the other member of the first midfield line. Lamb is coming ofT a year in which he had 15 points and set the record for most goals by an Irish freshman with 13 goals. 
"Ed is probably the the smartest player on this team," noted Corrigan. "He has a mastery for the game's fundamentals." 
The midfield will look for contributions from veterans Tom O'Brien, Tom Carroll and Chip Lonsdale. The rookies at midfield will contribute right away. Steve Manley (Springfield, Penn) and Chris Sforzo (Calhoun HS, NY} are good athletes and are coming from excellent high school programs. Bill Ahmuty (Chaminade HS, NY) and Willie Sutton (St. Mary's HS, MD) will be playing early this year. 
Goalie Chris Parent will return for his second year with the Irish. Parent had a 6-4 record last year and posted a .574 save percentage. 
"I don't worry about playing in front of Chris because I know he can stop almost everything," said Gillin. "I can play more aggressively because I know he will bail me out of any trouble." 
Parent will be backed up by Pat Finn, a converted attackman who has amazed all involved with his progress. 
"Pat has been a pleasant surprise," said Gillin. 
The schedule will provide this team with serious challenges. The Irish will face powerhouses such as Hofstra, Cornell, Villanova, Denison, Ohio Wesleyan and rivals Air Force and Michigan State. They will also face the preseason number-one team, Loyola of Maryland. 
However, Notre Dame can not look past this weekend team, Canisius. Last year, the Irish defeated the Golden Griffins 19­
7. This year's Griffs are very young and they had a great recruiting class. They return their leading scorer, Randy Mearns (45 goals, 49 assists). 
"I remember my first game," said Gillin, "and I was geared up to play. These guys (Canisius} will be the same way tomorrow, so we must be ready for them." 


INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE 
DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MARCH 4-8 
10:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. 
•Portfolio Bags  •Coffee Mugs  
•Short Sleeve Polo Shirts  •Cotton Sweaters  
•Cotton & Velour Blankets  •Sweatshirts  
•Official Miami T-Shirts  •NO Rub-ons  

You won't find better prices anywhere! Great Gifts for Spring Break and Easter!! 
·, 

THE VARSITY SHOP 1639 Edison Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 
re.c!l!1!'~ru~t! ~~ .k~~e. s!Jrgery •.•.. L;..;.,;,.;;.;.,;;.;..~~:,;.,;:..;..;:..;..;·o..:·o..:·-.:·-.:·o..:·o..:·o..:·o..:·~·~·~·~·~·~·..;,~..,..~-..;,~..;,·.-·•·..:.·.;,·_........,_.M._____________7____________. 
-


Friday, March 1, 1991 
page 23 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Friday and Saturday 

ACROSS 31 Lascivious 55 U.S. space 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film: "The Little Thief." Annen­stares shuttle
1 Price preceder 

berg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 32 Revoke a 57 Mimicker 
51dem legacy 58 Every 60 10 Boundless 33 Pretend

8:10 p.m. Comedy: "Fortune: the Rise and Fall of a minutes 
14 Done with 36 You were, to
Small Fortune Cookie Factory," performed by Theatre Cato 59 Phillies' former 
15 Start of a 1922 manager
Grottesco. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Department of 
Broadway title 37 Pens for Porky 
Communication and Theatre. 60 Minus
38 Before: Prefix 
16 Muslim general 61 Brings forth 

Sunday 39 Roman sun god
11 Moon and lambs

40 Celery stem 
Tel star 62 Retreats

3:10 p.m. Comedy, "Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a 19 French-German 41 Socially active 
people

Small Fortune Cookie Factory," performed by Theatre river 
42 Earthlings
Grottesco. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Department of 20 Necessarily DOWN
44 Confirm
Communication and Theatre. involves 
47 ~--Addar 1 Come in second21 The Titan, for (Cape Bon) 2 Lendl of tennis 
7:15 p.m. Sunday Vespers Concert, Faculty Organ 48 Celestial
one 3 Small paving 
23 Assam, e.g. revolvers
Recital, Professor Craig Cramer, University Organist. stone Sponsored by Campus Ministry. 24 Intonations 50 Encloses 4 They pick up 25 Between Scheat protectively 
the tab -------------------------and Chara, e.g. 54 Item for Walton 
5J. R.'scity

LECTURES 
6 Relative of a stork 

Friday ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Small songbird a Abound 9 Small bones 
3 p.m. "The Persian Gulf War and American Society," 
10 Coed college in
Edward Derwinski, secretary of veterans affairs. Room 
Poughkeepsie

122, Hayes-Healy Center. Sponsored by College of Busi­
11 One more time 28 Turkic language 40 Parched 4& Kind of ness Administration. 
resistance
29 Young Caesar 41 Pre-meal thanks 12 Commandment 49 Ghillie, e.g. 
was oneverb 42 Parts of radios so Dhu's group

Sunday 13 Vetches 30 Onions' cousins 43 Derelicts: Slang 51 Oeillade 18 Predators, at 33 Type of code or 52 No, in Nurnberg
7 p.m. "Diversity in the Work Force: The Challenge of rug 44 Shock
times 53 Sp. matrons Engineering," Dean Eleanor Baum, School of Engineering, 22 Simulacrum 34 Astronomer 4Sincline 56 Altar on high Cooper Union. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored 25 Sights on the Sagan by College of Engineering and The Year of Women. Seine 35 Dick Tracy's 
wife

2& Third spouse of Answers to any three clues in this Poppaea 37 Elastic puzzle are available by touch-tone Sabina 38 Polluted, as phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
MENU 27 Greenish blue pens or minds minute). 
SRTURDRV 8 RND I 0:30 PM ROM/SS/ON: $2 CUSHING RUD /TOR I UM 

Notre Dame 
Baked Pollack 
Broccoli Quiche 
Pasta Bar 
Cheese French Toast Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
tf IN.T'KaD\JCtD ~t. \lf..~~ TO 
A. ~R\E~I) W\.\Os 'IERi C\.OSE 10 ~'( 1-\E~RT. J\JST f>... L\n\..E DOWN 1\~D \.t.fl, 
TO BE 'StB:\F\C. 
.. 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
GARYLARSON 
\JI'{ ~R\E~O \S A~ ELOQ\JN\ S?EP--I'IR. 1-\E Mf>!£ "WRE~ PI<C%0J~I) t>-~MEI'\"\S v-!1-\\LE I EXC.\JSED 1'/t.'{SE\.f f'KOM 11-\t. I<C<>tv\. I ~l'Nt-.~S \.£~'4~ ~'tN 1Wt. TA.LK G£15 ?1-\\\.C)'S~\Ct>..l. 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
~ ATTENTION, RE.ADE.RS l 'Cf 
8PEL VNK£R. ® PROUDLY PRESENTS AN ALL-N£W J (JLTRfJ-CONTEtfPORAR'f; ABSOLIJTtLY 
POUTI(tlli.Y CoaiKT (.HARACTER!
IT'S NOT 8UICK,WHrrc,REDollYEtl.Diol. n':S NOi ~/tl6tHf, (tillY oR BISBXOAL Tfif A8.5£:NCE OF ANY 5£CONDAR'( SE.XtJAl. CHA RtiC:TERIST'IC5 PREV6NTS SOCIETY FRoM .st.APPINGt IT WITH 
A~611RA~'l LABeLS UK£~ WoM~N", "WoM'*'" Og •mAN': If'S NCITilt:1'1«XIfAT oil: --IUL.._ RE PUBUCAN! tJaT IIN•MitL 1 Viii>CT'A !!.I.E , OR L liST, A CHit RltCTE:R tJNBIM>EO aMM~N'TAfi.YI 
..... 


... 


t 
I 
l l I f 
); 


' . 
---------------------------------------------~-------------­
Sports
~ 
\' 
page 24 Friday, March 1, 1991 
NO will attempt to slug 10-15 Louisville squad 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Notre Dame and Fordham, has Sports Writer remained unswervingly optimistic and dedicated to 
When many people hear playing hard. 'Louisville,' they think of the Possible parallels between 'Slugger.' this year's Notre Dame and 
Even though Digger Phelps's Louisville squads are nearly son-in-law is in spring training unavoidable. Under Crum, with the Texas Rangers, he and Louisville has recorded 20 or 
the Fighting Irish men's more wins in 17 of 19 seasons; 
basketball team are thinking of Digger's Fighting Irish have nothing but Denny Crum and done so 13 of 20 times. Digger's the Louisville Cardinals. career record is 419-197, while 
The 10-15 Cardinals, who Crum's is 472-172. have been making headlines The series between Notre untypical for Louisville, are a Dame and Louisville, dismal 3-10 in the Metro furthermore, is even at 7-7. Conference and seem on course More will be at stake in for their first losing season Freedom Hall at 2 p.m. since 1942. In that wartime, Saturday afternoon than a 1942 season, the Cardinals simple win. For both schools, went 7-10. The next year tomorrow's game is a matter of Louisville did not even field a doing the right things to rebuild team. In 1944, the Cardinals for next year. got back on track, and they The Irish, after registering a finished 10-10,16-3,22-6,17-6 92-87 overtime victory over the and 29-6 in the next five years. Dayton Flyers in their last home 
This year, the Irish will likely game Tuesday, are 12-17 and fail to reach the NCAA hoping against hope to earn an Tournament for the first time in NIT bid with road wins over 
The Observer/David Lee 
seven years. Digger Phelps, who 

see HOOPS/ page 17 Elmer Bennett and the Irish will try to defeat the struggling Cardinals at Louisville Saturday. 
has worked miracles both at 

Baseball team travels to 
Irish fencers to host Midwetern Regional 
By RICH KURZ 
Germany, who Auriol said are 

Texas for weekend games 
Sports Writer "very competitive." The top women for the Irish 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Dartmouth and Nebraska to
For the past five months, the are Heidi Piper, Anne Barreda Assistant Sports Editor place second in the four-teamNotre Dame fencing team has and Rachel Haugh, and they tourney.
been pursuing one goal-the have the potential to do very 
The Notre Dame baseball "I felt like we were the bestNCAA Championship. This well this weekend, according to team, which travels south this team in that tournament,"weekend the Irish will have a Auriol. 
weekend to play Texas, St. said Murphy, "and over thechance to bring that dream one "If they fence to the best of Mary's and Trinity, can take at long haul we'll prove westep closer to reality. their abilities, they should be in least some solace in the fact were."
Notre Dame is playing host to the top five," he said. 
that it has dropped from 13th Notre Dame gets its first op­
the Midwest Regional All three men's weapons are 
to 18th in the national rank­portunity to redeem itself as itTournament this weekend, an strong, and no team should be 
ings. faces seventh-ranked Texas
event that serves as a precur­able to defeat the team overall, Why? It moved up two spots today at Disch-Falk Field in sor to the NCAA Tournament. It although Wisconsin features a
Phil Leary 

on a more immediate list. Austin. The Irish have a 2-2will be necessary for individ­strong sabre squad and Wayne "This team moved up from record versus the Longhorns,uals to finish in the top five this all four categories (men's foil, State boasts one of the top 278th to 276th in the Murphy having last won 12-9 in 1989.
weekend to qualify for NCAAs, men's epee, men's sabre and foilists in the area in German 
Poll," said head coach Pat Last year, Texas beat Notre
while the team has to end up in women's foil) going into the import Stephon Schroeder. 
Murphy, referring to his more Dame 5-3. 
the top three to make the trip Regionals, and they should con­Senior captain Phil Leary and 
individually concocted "The players are going to
to State College, Penn., for the tinue their domination of the "the Aussies," sophomores Noel ranking. "I like to think that have to rise to the occasion,"NCAA Championships. Midwestern region. Young and Jeff Piper, will be in that's important, that that's said Murphy. "They're going to The fencing will begin "The main thing is to qualify the starting lineup for the Irish, what counts." face some very strongSaturday morning at the Joyce the team," said women's coach and all three are looking for a The baseball team (2-2) fell competition. We just hope toACC, just hours after the Yves Auriol. "I don't have any shot at Schroeder. 
in the national rankings mature and get a little betterBengal Bouts end. Workers will doubt we're going to qualify." "(Schroeder) won the Great because of its two losses last with each game. Thebe laboring throughout the The toughest competition for Lakes Championship last year, weekend at the Phoenix challenges have just begun."
night to change the north dome the women (19-0) will come so we're all pretty pysched to 
Thunderbirds Invitations to After the game with the
from a boxing venue to the site from Wayne State, a traditional fence him again," said Leary. 
Ohio State by scores of 6-1 Longhorns, Notre Dame playsof a fencing championship. rival of Notre Dame. Wayne 
and 12-11. During the 
see TEXAS I page 20 

The Irish are ranked first in State features two women from see FENCERS I page 20 
tournament, the Irish beat 


Sixty-first Bengal Bouts finals to be held tonight 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR for his performance. The Mulcahy-Trainor bout is Sports Writer "Mike Trainor was disquali­only one of ten on Friday's card. fied, and the 170-pound class is Another two-time champion 
Mter being disqualified from closed," said Rogers. "But will enter the ring Friday night, his Bengal Bouts fight with (Mulcahy and Trainor) wanted as Kerry Wate boxes Mike Mark Manning Wednesday to fight in front of a crowd, Trainor's brother, Tim, for the night, two-time returning which they have trained so hard 165-pound crown. champion Mike Trainor was for, and we are giving them that Wate earned his semifinal understandably disappointed. chance." victory over last year's 162­
"I had a lot of mixed emo­Though the Mulcahy-Trainor pound titleist, Jim Hawkins, by tions," said Trainor Thursday. matchup will not be fought for a· going inside on his opponent, "I was upset for throwing the title, the bout includes two of who held a significant reach punch. At the same time, it was the premier fighters in the and height advantage. instinct. There was no mali­tournament. Mulcahy advanced Wate will face a similar cious intent; I didn't do it to to the regionals of the NCAA problem in the title bout with hurt Mark. But the rules are boxing touraament last year Trainor. Trainor, however, rules, and I guess you have to while enrolled at West Point, possesses more power than play by them." while Trainor won Bengal Bouts Hawkins, as he demonstrated 
Trainor will be given the titles as both a freshman and Wednesday against Ed Schmitt. chance to fight again Friday sophomore. The referee stopped the bout night when he faces Scott Trainor was satisfied with the with one second remaining in Mulcahy in a non-divisional decision to allow him to fight the third round. bout. Mulcahy. The 150-pound class champi­
According to Bengal Bouts "The thing is, you have to look onship will prove to be a real director Walt Rogers, Manning at what the Bengal Bouts are all battle as well. Returning cham­cannot fight for 30 days, be­about," he said. "Sure I wanted pion Jody Armetta won his cause the referee stopped the to fight and maybe win four semifinal bout when the referee contest on a blow to the head. straight (titles), but that's not called the fight after only 28 
Therefore, Mulcahy will be the most important thing. seconds had elapsed. Armetta
The Observer!Oavid Lee The 61 st annual Bengal Bouts will come to a conclusion Friday night at awarded the championship at "In light of the fact that Mark confronts a formidable chal­8 p.m. in the north dome of the Joyce ACC. 170 pounds, while Manning is can't fight and Scott wants to, I see BENGALS I page 18 
granted the runner-up trophy am happy with the decision." 






