~~----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--------­
~ 
--------------I 
1 


VOL. XXIII NO. 73 THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1990 
, THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
GULF WAR BEGINS 
Allied planes pound Baghdad; Bush: 'We will not fail' 
CENTHAL SAUDI AHABIA largest U.S air base in central 
false. An Israeli military otlicial bia, a staging base for the U.S. 
(AP) -The United States and Saudi Arabia. "This is history in said allied warplanes struck force, said air raid sirens 
its allies hurled a mighty air the making," said Col. Ray Scud missile launch sites in sounded an alert of a possible 
armada against Iraq early Davies, the base's chief western Iraq. Iraqi missile attack. The "all­
Thursday to crush that Arab maintenance officer. The furious early-morning clear" later sounded with no 
nation's military power and The air offensive, aimed at assault was the climax to a cri­word of an attack. 
drive it from conquered troops and other strategic sites sis that built over more than The American warplanes 
Kuwait. in both Iraq and Kuwait, in­five months, as Iraq's President took off in pairs, disappearing 
"The liberation of Kuwait has cluded U.S. Air Force planes, Saddam Hussein, whose forces in red dots that winked out as 
begun." President Bush de­British Tornado fighter­stormed Kuwait in a lightning they gained altitude. The 
danld in Washington. bombers, 150 Saudi Arabian F-OPERATION invasion Aug. 2, rejected world aircraft were heavily loaded 
Wave after wave of war­15s and Tornados, and aircraft condemnation and dismissed with bombs and underwing fuel 
DESERT STORM

planes, in hundrnds of sorties of Kuwait's exiled military, al­U.N. economic sanctions de­tanks for the long trip north ­
on a starlit night, streaked lied officials said. signed to force him out of the 200 miles to Kuwait, 600 to
• Protests fail to stop war/Page 4 

north from Saudi Arabian First reports indicated Iraqi occupied emirate. Baghdad.
• World leaders respond/Page 4 

bases to punish Iraq for its five­resistance was limited, U.S. de­Bush told the American peo­"We've been waiting here for 
month dnfiance of the rest of fense ofticials said. Early word • Congress reacts/Page 4 ple in his 9 p.m. EST address, five months now. Now we fi­
the world. on U.S. casualties was "very, • Saddam will lead Iraqi "We will not fail." nally got to do what we were 
In Baghdad, reporters said very encouraging," said De­troops/Page 5 "All reasonable efforts" to sent here to do," Col. Davies bomb explosions shook the fense Secretary Dick Cheney. • Oil prices soar/Page 5 resolve the Persian Gulf by said. ground of the Iraqi capital. An Bush, on U.S. national televi­diplomacy and economic sanc­In Washington, a senior mili­
• Effects on ROTC/Page 6 

oil refirwry 10 miles away was sion, said no ground assault tions had failed and Iraq's tary official said the initial U.S.
• Students abroad return/Page 7 

in flames, and flashes of light was launched immediately President Saddam Hussein attack also included "a wave of brightennd the night sky. ap­against the dug-in Iraqi army in "met every overture of peace cruise missiles," possibly from parent anti-aircraft fire, they Kuwait. on Israel, as Baghdad had with contempt," said the U.S. battleships in the Persian said. threatened. somber president. Gulf. The missiles apparently 
"Operation Desert Shield" There was no immediate Rumors flew through the Per­"The world could wait no were launched to force Iraqi b11came "Operation Desert word from Iraq on damage and sian Gulf that Iraq launched longer." anti-aircraft defenses to turn Storm" around 12:50 a.m. (4:50 casualties there or in Kuwait. Scud ground-to-ground missiles Less than three hours after on their radars and be spotted 
p.m. EST) as F-15E fighter­Nor was there any immediate against Saudi Arabia, but the U.S. jets were launched, re­
bombers took off from the sign of an Iraqi missile attack 

Campus leaders react to war in Gulf 
Observer Staff Report 

Gaffney said that there was The onset of the war in the no real reason why military ac­tion couldn't have been post­
Persian Gulf last night elicited varied reactions from campus poned. The further use of leaders. 
sanctions could have either Student Body President Rob eliminated the need for 
Pasin reacted to the military intervention or made declaration with feelings of its use minimal. 
"I see this as a juggernaut-a
reservation. "I believe that 

President Bush should have game of chic:ken in which each given sanctions more of a side did not want to back chance; five months is not an down," said Gaffney. "It has 
now gotten out of hand." 
adeq~ate !est of their eiTectaveness. 

"The result of this could be 
"However, now that war has the embittering of Arab nations begun. like all Americ:ans, I for years. The region is not pray that it will be speedy and stable at all, and to presume 
deeisive," he said. that such conflict will end 
Heaction from Janet easily or smoothly is naive," he Meissnf'r, eo-chair of the Gulf said. Crisis Aetlon Group, was mired "It is sad it had to turn out in grief and anger. "I'm this way," he said. angry-angry at the President, GafTney questioned the valid­
angry that he stands up and ity of the Bush Administration in their post-war planning. He
lies to the American people, 

angry that he has not fully mentioned the diflic:ulty of U.S. forces in leaving Vietnam, say­
exhausted other 

opportunities," she said. ing that the withdrawal of mili­"This needs to be a time of tary forces is an important part courage. Our personal respon­of any strategy. The end result of the "shouting match"
sibility and our patriotic duty is to stand up and voice our between Bush and Saddam 
Hussein is in doubt, he said. 
opinion against it." 

''I'm angry," said Father
University President Father 

Stephen Newton, rector of
Edward Malloy and President Sorin Hall and director of spe­

Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh wero out of town cial projects at Campus 
Ministry. He spent most ofand unavailable for comment. 
Wednesday evening in his
Father Patrick Gaffney. asso­eiate professor of anthropol­room with hall residents ogy, commented on the rash­watching coverage on Cable 
News Network (CNN).
ness of the Bush 

Newton and people in hisAdministration in their attack 
room agreed that Bush's
on Iraq. "There was no inher­speech was a "waste of time." 

ent need to rush," ht~ said. "We 

He said the speech had no
should have negotiated more. It would have taken time, but It would have worked." see LEADERS/page 8 
Cheney called those reports porters in Dhahran, Saudi Ara-see WAR/page 4 

Bush: Forces will free Kuwait 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush summoned 

'Our servicemen and 
American and allied forces into 

servicewomen will be
war with Iraq on Wednesday night, declaring solemnly that given all the resources to "the battle has been joined" to 
do the job. I believe we
free Kuwait. Operation Desert Storm began with an aerial as­will prevail in a matter of L.. 
• sault that met little resistance, 
days or weeks.'
military officials said. 

"We will not fail," Bush -President Bush vowed as F-15E fighter bombers were locking onto their strategic military targets across Iraq and Kuwait. Hostil­held to an absolute minimum." vicemen and women will be ities were well under way when Congressional leaders, in­given all the resources to do the the president spoke to the na­formed in advance by the presi­job. I believe we will prevail in tion at 9 p.m. EST. dent, swiftly pledged backing a matter of days or weeks." 
The president expressed hope for American troops. Sen. Sam About 100 anti-war "this fighting will not go on for Nunn, who led the opposition to long, and that casualties will be war authority, said, "Our ser-see BUSH/page 4 
Roemer gauges students' views on crisis 
By PETER LOFTUS 
some supporting war. others Assistant News Editor opposing and a few ambivalent. Janet Meissner, a graduate The timing of U.S. Rep. Ti­student and co-c:hairperson of mothy Roemer's visit to Notre the anti-war Gulf Crisis Aetion Dame's Grace Hall was un­Group, told Roemer that war in canny. the Middle East is "not in the 
Roemer (D-South Bend) ar­best interest of the United rived at Grace Hall for a public States." forum concerning the Persian She urged Hoerner and other Gulf Crisis shortly after 7 p.m., students "to have the courage the reported time at which a to continue to stand up and 
U.S.-led air raid on Baghdad speak out" against the war in commenced. The topic of the the Gulf even though war has 
Tim Roemer 

forum had now shifted from, already broken out. "Should the U.S. go to war?" to U.N. resolution, gave President Noting that Roemer is a 
"freshman" congressman, she"Should the U.S. be at war?" Bush authorization to use mili­

After he was introduced to tary force to oust Iraq from told Roemer that "the position 
the crowd of about 150, Roe­Kuwait, which it invaded on that you take on this issue is mer solemnly announced that Aug. 2. He voted in favor of going to come to define your "Operation Desert Shield has resolutions which asserted career." Roemer was elected just turned into Operation Congress's exclusive authority last November and began his Desert Storm; the liberation of to declare war and called for first term in the House earlier Kuwait has begun." continued economic sanctions. this month. 
"The best way to support

Last weekend in the House of The students who voiced their Representatives, Roemer voted questions and opinions were di­personnel in the Gulf," said against the Michel-Solarz reso­vided on whether the U.S. was lution, which, like November's justified in waging war on Iraq, see ROEMER/page 7 
page 2 The Observer fflursdi:iy, Janualy 17, 199'1 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, January 17 
20 
20 


INSIDE COLUMN No excuse for keeping quiet about war The wait is over;--------­the drums of war have been replaced by shellfire. Where do we go from here? As members of the generation that has to fight this war we . can do one of two R ·b s· things: sit back and 0 yn 1mmons l~t President Bus? de-Asst. Accent Ed'tor1ctde how long this war will continue, or do everything within our power to end the fighting as soon as possible. The President who ordered the attack and the members of Congress who gave him the green light to do it are too old to fight in this war and many of their children are too old to be drafted. If anybody should have a vested interest in ending the war quickly, it should be the young people of this country. No matter where one stands on this issue, no one can afford to shut his or her eyes to what is going on. If you have an opinion about this war, voice it. Not just in the classrooms or the dining hall, but anywhere and everywhere. Earlier this week, there were several prayer vigils on campus and a peaceful demonstration. Throughout the nation, college students are letting their voices be heard, and Notre Dame students should be no exception. If you are against the war, don't stop praying and protesting. Write to your local paper. Write to the members of Congress. Write to Bush-he's the guy running the show. No matter how divided our nation be­comes over the war, we should not falter in our support of the men and women who are already in the Persian Gulf. Letters and packages will be more important than ever to the troops in that region. Vietnam taught us that the soldiers deserve our respect even if we are opposed to the war they are fighting. Many students on this campus know peo­ple who are part of Operation Desert Shield (now Desert Storm.) These people deserve our support, but they also deserve to return to their families alive. Nobody knows how long this conflict will last or how many soldiers will be killed in combat. It would be nice to think that Sad­dam Hussein will wave the white flag after the first attack, but it is highly doubtful. This war could last several days or sev­eral months, but how long are we willing to wait before we respond to the situation? Nobody can afford to be apathetic when our soldiers lives are in the balance. The worst thing that we can do is nothing. We can be concerned, worried or even upset that there is a war in the Persian Gulf, but if we are silent, we have only ourselves to blame when the number of casualties start climbing. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: Sports News Rene Ferran Paul Pearson Business Frank Rivera Scoreboard Christine Walsh Kelly Tuthill Mark McGrath Alicia Reale Florentine Hoelker ProductionMonicaYant GraphicsLisa Eaton John O'Brien Patrick Midden Cheryl Mosher Mike MuldoonMichelle Wood Accent Alison Cocks Shonda Wilson VIewpoint Colleen Cronin Becky Pichler Circulation Alison Cocks Lisa Eaton Chris Hanely lu Medeiros Ad Design Systems Tony Paganelli Cesar Capella Amy Eckert Brian Stalter The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


Yesterday's high: 42 Yesterday's low: 36 
30 Nation's high: 83 (Key West, Fla.) Nation's low: -Q3 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy today. Highs from the lower to middle 30s. Mostly cloudy tonight. Lows from 20 to 25. Partly cloudy Friday. Highs from the upper 20s to the lower 30s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © ~ ~ [1}] 0 A ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST Resident Assistant applications are available until Students who want to protest the presence of u.s. Friday, Jan. 18. The deadline for return of completed ap-troops in the Persian Gulf can call the White House Phone plications is Friday, Jan. 25, i1;1 the Office of Student M-at (220) 456-1111 or Capitol Switchboard at (202)224­fairs, 315 Administration Building. 3121. 
Auditions for "The Ice Wolf' will be held at 7. p.m. in Father Bryan Hehir, a counselor for social policy the Laboratory Theater of Washington Hall. for the U.S. Catholic Conference, will give an analysis of the Gulf situation and the non-application of the just warA demonstration against the war will take place at philosophy at 4 p.m. Monday, room 121 Law School. The 
5 p.m. at the Federal Building, downtown South Bend. 
analysis is part of a week of teach-ins sponsored by the 
Sponsored by the Michiana Coalition for Justice and 
Gulf Crisis Action Group. 
Peace. A discussion of the possibility of draft and the con­The Michiana Coalition for Justice and Peace and cept of conscientious objection will be held Monday at 8 
Pax Christi of Notre Dame will stage a protest of the war 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium as part of the Gulf Crisis 
1 p.m. Saturday at the Hansel Center in South Bend. 
Action Group's week of teach-ins. 
WORLD 
President Elias Hrawi's Lebanese government on The all-teak yacht of toppled Communist leader Wednesday ordered its army to deploy in south Lebanon Todor Zhivkov was auctioned off Wednesday to a Finnish beginning Feb. 1 to separate rival Shiite Muslim militias, businessman for $1.85 million, the state BTA news agency despite Israeli objections.The 15,000-member army has said. BTA said the "Akir-27," powered by three 650­had no active presence in south Lebanon since the coun­horsepower engines that give it a 600-mile range, was one try's civil war broke out in 1975. The government also of only three in the world. It identified the new owner as ordered the army to raid suspected arms hideouts that Lahti Mauno Antero. The 89-foot-long vessel was pur­
Christian and Muslim militias might have left in Beirut chased for Zhivkov eight years ago for $1.8 million, BTA and its environs. The militias withdrew from the capital in said. Proceeds from the auction. at the Black Sea port of November, when the Syrian-backed government began its Bourgas, were to go to the Ministry of Public Health. drive to reestablish control over the country. 
NATIONAL 

The Senate Ethics Committee on Wednesday concluded two months of contentious hearings on the Keating Five after listening to declarations of innocence by each senator. Two panel members and a defense lawyer have indicated they expect some aspect of the case to reach the Senate. Chair­man Howell Heflin, D-Ala, said delibe­rations would begin Jan. 30. Lawyers for the five, each of whom assisted political donor Charles Keating Jr. and his Lincoln Savings and Loan, said their clients acted prop­erly at all times. Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz .• defended 
himself, the only one of the five senators to do 
INDIANA 

The trial of a suspended Indiana State Uni­versity professor accused in the murder of a young Terre Haute man will remain in Vermillion County, a judge has ruled. Vermillion Circuit Judge Don Darnell denied a defense motion Tues­day for a change of venue in the murder trial of Robert David Little, 53. Attorneys Dennis Zahn and James Voyles argued the April 2 trial should be moved because of extensive publicity. During a Jan. 7 hearing, they offered boxes of news stories and videotapes of newscasts concerning the case. On Monday, the case was featured in national broadcasts of the syndicated programs, "A Cur­rent Affair" and "Inside Edition." Little was ar­rested last month for the mutilation slaying of Steven Agan, 23, after death row inmate Larry Eyler implicated him. Agan's body, with multiple stab wounds, was found Dec. 28, 1982, in a field by an abandoned house in Newport, about 40 miles north of Terre Haute. 
so. 
At the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's latest in­duction ceremonies, the facts of musical life are the Byrds and the R&B's. The sixth group of inductees include bluesmen John Lee Hooker and Howlin' Wolf; rhythm and blues artists Jimmy Reed and LaVern Baker; the spicy R&B duo of Ike and Tina Turner; the sweet soul of the Impressions; the steamroller soul of Wilson Pickett. Folk-rock pioneers, the Byrds, round out the most recent crop of honorees. The winners were announced last fall, and were to be officially inducted in a ceremony Wednesday night. The new group brings the total of inductees to 50. The original lineup of the Byrds in 1964 is being honored: Roger McGuinn, David Crosby, Gene Clark, Chris Hillman and Michael Clarke. Subsequent members, such as the late Gram Parsons, will not be included. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 

173.00 11-1.30 S&P Composite A 
316.17 ir 2.44 Dow Jones Industrials 
2,508.91 it 18.3 
Precious Metals 
Gold +$4.30 to $404.50/oz. Silver + 1.3¢ to $4.235/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On January 17: 

eln 1916: The original Dixieland band opened at the Reisenweber's restaurant in New York. 
eln 1927: The founder of the Girl Scouts, Mrs. Juliette Low, died at the age of 67. 
eln 1936: The German Minister of Propaganda Dr. Joseph Goebbels declared in front of a crowd of 18,000 that Germany must soon have colonies. Referring to the army's increasing need for raw materials, Goebbels said, "We can get along without butter, but never without cannon." 
eJn 1973: The Public Health Service linked smoking to fetal and infant risks. 
---~---------­
Thursday, January 17, 1990 
The Observer 


AP Photo Indignant Lithuanians pin their Soviet passports on the railings in which a poster of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev's poster was posted Tuesday at the Lithuanian parliament building in Vilnius Tuesday. 
Gorbachev proposes legislative control of media following Lithuanian assault 
MOSCOW (AP) -Stung by an article accusing him of leading a "criminal regime," President Mikhail Gorbachev on Wednes­day tried to stifle glasnost by putting the Soviet press under legislative control. 
But after howls of protest from lawmakers who cited Gorbachev's glasnost, or open­ness. as one of his greatest achievements, the Supreme So­viet legislature agreed to a modified version of his pro­posal. They authorized a committee and legislative lead­Hrs to take unspecified mea­sures to "ensure objectivity." 
Gorbachev proposed suspllnding the Soviet Union's press freedom law, which curtailed state censorship and guaranteed independent newspapllrs and radio and tel1wision stations. His suggestion represented another bid by Gorbachev to shift the nation to the right. 
The press law, which took ef­fect last year, has fostered the growth of independent newspa­pers of all political viewpoints, although central radio and television remains under state control. 

Lawmakers lambasted Leonid Kravchenko, the new head of the state broadcasting author­ity Gostelradio, for pulling the plug on a controversial televi­sion show last month and turn­ing Soviet TV back into the bland government mouthpiece it was under Leonid Brezhnev. 
The military assault in Lithuania has thrust the debate over objectivity in the media ­especially television -into the open. Boris Yeltsin, the presi­dent of the Russian republic and Gorbachev's main political rival, said Monday that inde­pendent newspapers and televi­sion producers who have tried to provide honest coverage of the Baltics "are simply being shut down." 
Gorbachev suggested the So­viet Union's political and eco­nomic crisis was threatened by radical newspapers such as Moscow News and required "constructive dialogue and co­operation." He initially sug­gested suspending the nation's press law one month. 
"We could decide to suspend this law but Lukyanov proposed an alternative, and the law­makers approved it. They voted 275-32 with 30 abstentions to have its presidium, or leader­ship of the Supreme Soviet, and a legislative committee on glas­nost work out measures to "ensure objectivity" in all Soviet media. Neither Lukyanov nor Gorbachev outlined what form the legislative supervision might take. 
Vitaly Korotich, editor of the radical magazine Ogonyok, said in an interview with The Asso­ciated Press that Gorbachev's proposal was "tragic" because Gorbachev himself is the origi­nator of glasnost. 
"I can understand if it were proposed by a general, but when today Gorbachev grabs the throat of his own child and kills his own ally, it looks like a political suicide," Korotich said. 
He was confident, however, that "the process of democrati­zation cannot be stopped." 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25,1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
~rr=------------------------------------------------~.~
Cnb==-~---==--------==---===---===-----======~Y 
page 3 


N D professor Leonard Savoie dies at age 68 


Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame Professor Leonard Savoie, 68, died at 4 
a.m. on Jan. 16, at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. A fu­neral mass will be conducted tomorrow, at 3:30 p.m. at Sa­cred Heart Church. 
Savoie, who joined the Notre Dame Accountancy Department faculty in 1980, chaired that department from 1983 to 1990. As chairman, Savoie was in­strumental in the promotion and hiring of several outstand­ing faculty members. He also played a key role in preserving and enhancing the national reputation of the department. 
A graduate of the University of Illinois and a veteran of the 
U.S. military, Savoie's profes­sional career began with the in­ternational CPA firm of Price Waterhouse. He was partner in charge of accounting research and education with the firm when he was selected, in 1967, by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) to become its executive vice-president. 
As its first chief staff officer to hold a CPA certificate, he was responsible for all AICPA activities and served as the AICPA's spokesman. 
After five years with the AICPA, Savoie moved to Clark Equipment (then located in Buchanan, Mich.) as their vice president of finance. At Clark, Savoie was responsible for all 

Professor Leonard Savoie 
external reporting and served as the primary liaison to shareholders and creditors on financial matters. 

Savoie's time at ND involved a productive blending of his administrative, technical and human relations skills. He taught graduate students, counseled Accountancy concen­..trates, worked with accounting practitioners and professors around the country, and was very involved in local, regional and national activities. 
Savoie served on a variety of advisory and decision-making boards, including those at the University of Michigan, the University of Illinois, Pruden­tial-Bache Securities, LaSalle Federal Bank and Trust of St. Joseph, Mich., and the Buchanan YMCA. 
Contributions can be made to the Lambs Fund for the Re­tarded in lieu of flowers. The mailing address is The Lambs Farm, P.O. Box 520, Liber­tyville, IL, 60048. 
APPhoto 


'Give peace a chance' 
Yoko Ono, Sean Lennon and Lenny Kravitz, left to right, flash the peace sign recently in Los Angeles. A new music video featuring a new version of John Lennon's "Give Peace a Chance" was re­leased Tuesday to coincide with the expiration of the United Na­tions deadline for Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait. 
Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
announces 
Auditions for 
The Ice Wolf 
Directed by Reginald Bain Thursday, January 17 at 7:00PM Laboratory Theatre -Washington Hall 
The Ice Wolf, the second Studio Series production of the 1990-91 season, is a play for young audiences which will be performed in the laboratory theatre. 
No preparation is necessary for the audition. 

------~------~-­
OPERATION DESERT STORM Thursday, January 17, 1990 
a e 4 



World leaders react to outbreak of war 
(AP) -The outbreak of war in the Persian Gulf elicited quick promises of support for the United States from its allies as well as outrage from long­time foes. Initial reaction from world markets appeared calm, while several governments im­mediately convened crisis Cabi­net meetings. 
The feeling of saddened res­ignation expressed by U.N. Sec­retary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, who had engaged in a frenzied 11th-hour effort to avert war, reflected the feelings of many. 
"After all my efforts, after all the efforts of so many coun­tries, so many different per­
.. sonalities, how can I tell you, dear friends, that we are now facing a war?" he said. 
Cuban President Fidel Castro, long a foe of the United States, was quick to criticize the war as unnecessary. He said it could have been avoided by diplo­matic means. 
"I think the mentality of the Arab countries was not taken into account. ... All these mea­sures that were taken were de­priving diplomacy of its possi­bilities," Castro said in a news conference. 
New Zealand Prime Minister 
Anti-war protestors try in vain to stop war in the Gulf 
(AP) -Anti-war protesters rallied in vain across the globe up to the final hours, chanting "No blood for oil!" and praying for peace before the U.S. bombing of Iraq began Thurs­day at 3 a.m. Baghdad time. 
U.S. officials in central Saudi Arabia announced that the air raids had started, and Presi­dent Bush said in Washington, "The liberation of Kuwait has begun." 
Hundreds of demonstrators had kept a vigil outside the White House after a U.N. dead­line expired at Tuesday mid­night for Iraq to leave Kuwait -invaded on Aug. 2 -or risk attack. 
One demonstrator shouted early Wednesday, "Wake up, Bush, don't go to sleep tonight!" Others pounded on drums or honked horns. 
In Europe, people rose before dawn Wednesday to pray in churches. 
War 
continued from page 1 

and destroyed by the attackers. 
In Baghdad, ABC and CNN reporters said there were "flashes in the sky." Explosions and machine-gun fire could be heard in the background of their reports. "The night sky filled with a hail of bullets from 

Bush 
continued from page 1 

protesters maintained a vigil in the dark drizzle outside the White House. 
The president marshalled a potent international alliance to challenge Iraq's occupation of the oil-rich kingdom of Kuwait and issued his war order less Jim Bolger said everyone hoped and prayed that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein would "at last see reason" with the onset of war. 
He said the world was now seeing the "sad but inevitable consequences of Saddam Hus­sein's refusal to end his illegal occupation of Kuwait." 
Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifi convened a meet­ing of the government's security council. "Japan firmly supports the action taken by the U.S.," said Foreign Ministry spokesman Taizo Watanabe. 
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney scheduled an emergency Cabinet subcommit­tee meeting. Inside the House of Commons, debate continued on a government motion asking parliamentarians to reaffirm United Nations resolutions calling for Iraq to leave Kuwait or face military attack. 
In Seoul, South Korean Presi­dent Roh Tae-woo sent a mes­sage to the U.S. president: "1, along with the people of the Republic of Korea, fully support the resolute military actions the United States has taken under the leadership of President Bush." 
Protesters maintained a somber candlelight vigil outside United Nations Headquarters in New York. 
More than 100,000 demon­strators marched in German ci­ties for a fifth day, many with banners declaring: "No blood for oil!" Others blocked en­trances to U.S. military bases. 
About 10,000 students marched in a single rally down elegant Kurfuerstendam boule­vard in western Berlin. Others demonstrated in Munich and Berlin. 
A radical leftist group claimed responsibility for a pre-dawn bombing that slightly damaged the Victory Column, a prominent landmark in Berlin hailing Prussian triumphs in 19th century wars. 
The U.S. Defense Department reported a bomb threat Wednesday at the Pentagon outside Washington. 
anti-aircraft guns," CNN's John Holliman said. 
Almost two hours later, re­porters said bombs were still falling. Baghdad radio was off the air, but at dawn Wednesday it could be heard broadcasting the patriotic song, "Baghdad, Mother of Holy War." 
Cheney said the U.S. "focus is on the destruction of Saddam's offensive military capabilities." 
than 24 hours after the expira­tion of a United Nations dead­line. 
Within moments of Bush's comments, Defense Secretary Richard Cheney told reporters that the first foray was con­ducted by hundreds of Ameri­can, British, Saudi Arabia and Kuwaiti aircraft. "So far there has been no air resistance" from the Iraqis, Cheney said. 

AP Photo 
'End of the world' party 
An Israeli dressed in an anti-chemical weapon suit and gas mask dances with Leila during an "End of the World" party in downtown Jerusalem Tuesday as the U.N. deadline for Iraq to leave Kuwait expired. 

Lawmakers hope Middle East conflict ends with few American casualties 
WASHINGTON (AP) -As the United States unleashed its air power against Iraq Wednesday, lawmakers said they hoped the conflict would end quickly with few American casualties. 
Across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House, hun­dreds of protesters marched and shouted. "Don't Bag Our Boys" one sign read. 
On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Thomas Foley said the nation "must now pray for a conflict that ends quickly, deci­sively and with a minimum loss of life. We must now stand 




Pizza 
Delivery & Carry out 
As near as your phone 
271-0200 
1740 South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 
FREE DELIVERY 
PIZZA SIZES: 1 0" I 12"I 14"I 16" toppings: 
Black Olives Green Peppers Mushrooms Canadian Bacon Ground Beef Onions 
Green Olives Jalapeno Peppers Pepperoni Morning Bacon Pineapple Sausage Tomatoes Anchovies Ham 

~----------------~-----------------y
~ 2 Free Toppings i Buy one 12" pizza with up: . . to 4 toppings and get a 1
1 1 on any size pizza 1 1 1 1 1 second for $4.00 I 
I I : I tax not included I tax not included I 
: EXPl-26-90 : EXPl-26-90 Ginas : 
I I I
IN GOD WE TRUST 

L••••••••••••••••'•••••••••••••••••~ 
united in support of our armed forces in the gulf who have em­braced the duty and burden of conducting the war." 
Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I. and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he was praying "for all those in danger tonight, our courageous servicemen and women, and innocent civilians in Kuwait and Iraq." 
"We can only hope ... Saddam Hussein will be wiped from the face of the Earth," Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., said. 
The message in Lafayette 
Park across from the White House was reminiscent of Viet­nam War protests. 
"Hey, Bush, what do you say? How many kids will you kill to­day?" the 200 or so protesters chanted. One demonstrator carried a four-foot-wide peace sign. 
Minutes after President Bush spoke to the nation at 9 p.m., the protesters, separated from the White House by a snow fence and more than 100 police officers, began marching north from Lafayette Park, away from the Executive Mansion. 

·--~-------~ 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 

Thursday, January 17, 1990 



Saddam himself will direct Iraqi troops in a war, legislator says 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (API -Sad­dam llussnin mflt on Wednes­day with the Revolutionary Command Council and a lngislative lnader said the Iraqi leader would personally direct the armed forces in any war with the U.S. and allied forces. 
Iraq's television Wednesday showed President Saddam ex­horting his troops in Kuwait to crush any U.S.-led offensive, and the state radio broadcast instructions on how to cope with air raids. 
Baghdad's streets were quiet Wednesday. Many stores shut down as more residents fled after the expiration of the U.N. deadline for Iraq to leave Kuwait. City officials ordered lights on bridges and along streets turned off after dark. 
Soldiers in Baghdad stood behind anti-aircraft batteries atop tall buildings as thousands of Popular Army militia roamed 

for all men's and women's~ @o N D Basketball games No 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MIEAL HALF PRICIE! 
6D 
"Since .1981" • ' ~ 
a~~ At.. ~ 
.. v • ,.., 
"The Italian 
Rr·storante" 

Please present ~h~:· 232•4244 
. South Of Nolrr D•mes' Golden Domehen ordenng 1412 Soullt Bend Av@nur 
.f 

OOPS UPSIDE YOUR H-....... 
We want to bounce this one off you: 
How would you like Swatch to pay part of your tuition bill for next semester? 
To have a shot at this, just go to the next "Swatch Free Tuition Shootout" game: 
Thursday, Janaury 17, 1991 Notre Dame v. Marquette 

(you must fill out an entry form at the Gate 10 Entrance to be eligible) 
If you're chosen, you'll be sununoned to rourt during halftime to take the shortest test of your life. You'll have 30 seconds to make the following three shot5: (I) One Lay-up. (2) One Free Throw, (3) One 3-Pomter. If you malc.e all three bcf~re the clock runs out, you 'II have netted yourself a partial tuition payment from Swatch. The only other requtremem to wm ts _that you're a full time undergraduate student. So support the Fighting Irish this semester! And Swatch might end up supporttng 
you nell.l semester! 


IRAN 
.o~· 

SYRIA 
~. 

JORDAN 
~~~.. ~ J#lM$1 
~..

I \ IRAQ '~' ~ 
100 miles 
SAUDI 

~ 
ARABIA

100km. 
AP 
the streets carrying AK-47 rifles. 
The official Iraqi News Agency said Saadi Mehdi Saleh, speaker of the National Assem­bly, and Latif Nassayif Jassirn, 

Pre-game Specia 
p . 

ersum Gulf
+ 
The official army newspaper, Al-Qadassiya, said the troops in Kuwait had finished digging in 
"'"' • 
and were ready to resist an at­
KUWAITJ 
minister of information and culture, attended Saddam 's meeting with the Revolutionary Command Council. No details of the meeting were released. 
Saleh said in an interview at that time that Saddam himself "will from now on direct the battle, but he will be assisted by his commanders." 
Saddam holds the rank of field marshal and controls Iraq's highly centralized mili­tary machine eve,n in peacetime. 
tack. Soldiers in combat uni­form, shown on Iraqi TV, pledged to Saddam they would fight to the death. 
"This is Iraq's Kuwait and we will not give it up!" a group of soldiers shouted in unison as Saddam inspected them along the Kuwaiti shore. 
~ 

page 5 


U.S. First-Strike Jets, Ta ets 
F-111: Strategic bomber used to F-15 Eagle: Air-superiority attack ground targets. EF-111 Raven fighter used to gain control 
variant uses radar jamming to reduce the effectiveness of enemy defenses. 
TURKEY 

F-117A stealth fighter: Attacks high-value, strongly defended targets such as radar and anti-aircraft sites. 
SAUDI ARABIA 



Oil prices skyrocket in as war with Baghdad begins 
NEW YORK (AP) -Oil prices instantly soared above $40 per barrel, then backed off slightly in cash trading as war with Iraq began Wednesday night, traders said. 
As television news reports broadcast the sounds of bombs and gunfire in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad, crude oil prices took their biggest jump of five months in private cash trading -oil companies making deals outside the venue of energy markets. 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI and SAT 7:30,9:45 
of airspace. A different model, i' the F-15E, is used for medium-range attacks. 
Likely targets 
~ Chemical, nuclear or biological warfare facilities 
&. Conventional weapons plants ..... Air bases 
IRAN 
The price of crude shot up dollars at a time from the clos­ing price of $32 per barrel Wednesday afternoon on the New York Mercantile Ex­change. Some oil dealers re­fused at one point to sell oil for less than $41 per barrel, said Thomas Blakeslee, an energy analyst with Pegasus Econo­metric Group Inc., in Hoboken, N.J. 
But after a few minutes, prices eased back by several dollars to around $37 per bar­rel, still $5 higher than they had been before the attack on Iraq. 
"It sold off," said Ann-Louise Hittle of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "It couldn't sus­tain that kind of surge." 
Energy exchanges, where oil for future delivery is traded, were just opening for business in Asia as the air raids on Iraq began. 
Even before most traders ar­rived at their offices in Tokyo, 
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude oil was offered at $32 for March delivery in Tokyo. Traders in Tokyo expected sharply higher prices over the day and confused trading. 
Oil traders in New York scrambled for information on the sudden attack, which carne almost four hours after energy futures trading stopped for the day in New York and London. 



·-----~ ------------·------------------------~ 
OPERATION DESERT STORM Thursdav.•J~nuarv 17, 1990 
orders U.S. economic embargo 
: against Iraq. : •Aug. 3 -Kuwaiti forces mount futile · last-ditch resistance. Iraqi troops push to : within few miles of Saudi Arabian border. 
Bush orders deployment of troops and warplanes to 
Fresh U.S. Navy task sail for region. -Iraq declares Kuwait is part 
-Iraq closes its borders for [:::fnrAinnoOf!': trapping thOUSandS Of Arr1erio~n•s and other Westerners in Iraq 
10-Twelve of 20 Arab League vote to send all-Arab military force Americans in defense of Saudi 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to sweep "emirs of oil" from gulf states. Pentagon sources to 250,000 U.S. ground troops 
sent to Saudi Arabia if war out with Iraq. 12-Saddam says he is ready 
I the gulf crisis if Israel t::::: ,.,;,~'n"'w" from territories it occupies. -Iraqi troops in Kuwait round and British visitors from two 
in Kuwait for transport to Iraq. of Jordan secretly meets in Baghdad. King Hussein flies to 
"'''' 'tv"'"""'mrm in effort to mediate U.S.-Iraq 
Saddam offers to withdraw 
20 -Iraq announces it has Western hostages to vital military r':: ;,n,.t:oll,.tinr'" to use as human shields. -Bush signs order calling up r::: """"rvi"'" to bolster the U.S. military 
''·  the gulf.  
(  -Iraq rings at least nine  
)  in Kuwait with troops,  
) · :i  ·  the U.S. mission, and detains U.S. Embassy staff members  
.'..  after promising them  
\  from Baghdad.  
•::  25-U.N. Security Council  

:•: passes resolution that would allow i military action to enforce economic ''''''"'mt'""'" of Iraq. 
26 -Fifty-two Americans, wives of diplomats from U.S. in Kuwait, arrive in Turkey detained in Iraq. 27 -State Department orders of Iraqi Embassy staff 1\'e•xpelledfrom United States and strict travel limits on 19 [ dliplo•mats allowed to remain. 28-Baghdad tightens grip on · by declaring it Iraq's t 9th 
0 -In televised statement, a r::: ~;oolkesma.n for Saddam offers free oil to 
I countries. 11-Bush addresses joint of Congress, reaffirming U.S. 
1'\c:ommitme•ntto roll back Iraqi annexation 
,Ji 16 -Iraqi TV airs videotape of /Bush address to the Iraqi people. Iraqi )spokesman calls Bush a liar. Iraq opens 
: Kuwait's borders and thousands of :Kuwaitis attempt to flee their country. 
•Sept. 
21 -Saddam says Iraq would "fight to the finish" in war with United States. Iraq orders expulsion of military attaches from all European Community countries. 

•Sept. 
23-Saddam says he will · Israel and launch all-out war 


U.N. embargo to 
"!':tr,.nt11A"Iraq. 27-Iraq orders Kuwaitis to tor Iraqi citizenship. Iraq threatens hang diplomats sheltering Westerners .in their embassy compounds. •oct. 9-Saddam says Iraq has developed missile capable of hitting targets in Saudi Arabia. • •Oct. 11 -Crude oil futures prices : close at all-time high of $40.42 per : barrel. 
•Oct. 15-Diplomatic relations are ·.'renewed between Iraq and Iran after a decade of hostility. Reconciliation could 
,,help Iraq circumvent U.N.-ordered trade embargo. 
•,.Oct. 17-U.S. and Kuwaiti officials 
' reject compromise offer from Saddam whereby Iraq would pull troops out of most of Kuwait. 
•Oct. 20-Opponents of U.S. 
111 

nvolvement in gulf stage protests in at least 15 major American cities. 
•Nov. 
8 -Bush orders additional 150,000 troops to gulf. It is reported that : Saddam has replaced his military chief · of staff with head of elite Republican Guards. 

•Nov. 
9 -Iraq says it will never pull out of Kuwait, despite U.S. order to ship additional troops to gulf and Moscow's qualified consent to use of force in region. 

•Nov. 
14-Bush tells Congress he is extending for an additional 90 days the 90-day call-up for reservists already serving in gulf. 

•Nov. 
19 -Iraq says it will pour 250,000 more troops into Kuwait. U.S. Army and Marine Corps announce call­ups of 26,625 reserves. 

•Nov. 
21 -Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev says U.N. Security Council should meet to address a "very dangerous" situation in the gulf. 

•Nov. 
26-Iraq accuses United States of using blackmail to win U.N. backing tor military strike to tree Kuwait. 

•Nov. 
27 -Senate Armed Services Committee opens hearings on Bush's gulf policy. 

•Nov. 
29-U.N. Security Council votes 12-2 to give Iraq six weeks to pull its troops out of Kuwait before United States and its allies are free to launch a military strike. 

•Nov. 
30 -Bush says he is willing to send Baker to Baghdad to discuss ending the gulf crisis. 

•Dec. 
7 -Iraqi parliament overwhelmingly endorses Saddam's decision to free all foreigners held as hostages by his government. 

•Dec. 10-The first wave of American 
:( 

~~!~~~~:a:~::~s~~~~:~~~:l::l~:et I 
date for direct U.S.-Iraqi talks in ·•: Baghdad. ''' 
•Dec. 19-Lt. Gen. Calvin Waller. i 




gg~s::;d:;\~" :··.'.:•~.. .._
•Dec. 20 -Pentagon warns Saddam that U.S. air power will be ready to attack by Jan. 15, even it all ground :: forces are not ready for war by then. \ 


~~:~~:::::::::~~; 1: 
Spanish TV as saying Israel would be 
Iraq's first target if war breaks out. 
•Dec. 25-Saddam insists Palestine 
:=~;;~::~~: c::~:~0e::oys
back to their posts to pass word he's ready to talk, diplomats say. Bush insists 
U.S. forces are ready to fight. ·•:. ~an. 3 -Bush offers to send Baker to Geneva to meet Aziz in "one last attempt" at peace. ~an. 4-Iraq agrees to hold its first high-level talks with the United States since the start of the gull crisis. ~an. 6 -Saddam tells Iraqis to prepare lor a long war, again ruling out an unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait. Baker says United States will not agree to linkage with Palestinian issue. 
•Jan. 
8-Baker meets with French, German and Italian officials to maintain cohesion of anti-Iraq alliance. ~an. 9 -Baker and Aziz meet in Geneva but fail to defuse crisis. U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar says he will go to Baghdad lor one last try at persuading the Iraqis to pull out of Kuwait. ~an. 10-U.S. Congress begins debate on gull crisis. ~an. 12 -In historic vote, Congress gives Bush authority to wage war in gull. Last American diplomats leave Baghdad. ~an. 13-Perez de Cuellar meets with Saddam and says afterward "God only knows" it there will be war. Saddam reiterates his country is ready to light to keep conquered Kuwait. 

•Jan. 
14-Perez de Cuellar says he has lost hope lor peace. Iraqi lawmakers pledge to support Saddam with their blood. France outlines last-minute peace :: plan calling lor Iraqi withdrawal and :. 


~~~~:r~~~eol a general Mideast peace ._:_·!.•. 
•Jan. 15-On day the U.N. deadline expires, State Department rejects ·:: 
French plan because it links Kuwait and •...·':,
Palestinian issues. White House says Bush is "ready to make the tough decisions." · ' 
•Jan. 16-The United States launches ·_:,_' air attacks against Iraq and Kuwait. 
:·. 

Attack on Baghdad has little effect on NO's ROTC students 

By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Managing Editor 
As the U.S. attack on Iraq and 
Kuwait sent shock waves across 
campus and across the globe, 
commanders of Notre Dame's 
Reserve Officer Training Corps 
(ROTC) programs stressed that 
war in the Persian Gulf will have 
little effect on the ROTC pro­
grams at ND. 
"I don't think what has hap­
pened will affect the ROTC pro­
gram at Notre Dame," said Col. 
Howard Hanson, Professor of 
Aerospace Studies, Air Force 
ROTC. 
"I don't anticipate anything 
will change before the cadets 
graduate and get their commis­
sions," added Capt. George De­
whirst, Commanding Officer and 
Professor of Naval Science for 
Naval ROTC. 
He said that ROTC students 
would be prematurely called into 
service "only if a lot of other 
things happen first." 
Currently, 681 Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's students par­
ticipate in the three ROTC pro­
grams. 
The commanders of the all three ROTC units did say that ROTC classes will take a close look at the Gulf crisis in the coming weeks. 
"I imagine we'll be talking about the situation a lot more 

Sgt. Rachel Forehand of Brooklyn, N.Y., rests her head on a stuffed bear as the United Nations dead­line for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait approached in Saudi Arabia Wednesday morning. Forehand is a nurse with the 28th Combat Support Hospital, stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C. She and other members of her unit were waiting for a plane to carry them to a forward base in the Persian Gulf. 
and I'm sure the classes will de­vote more attention to the situa­tion in the Gulf," said Lt. Col. Douglass Hemphill, Professor of Military Science for Army ROTC. 
"I've told everybody that their responsibility is to stay informed and to keep up to speed with the events so we can know and un­derstand what is going on," said Hanson. 
Dewhirst added that he plans to go to Navy ROTC classes to­day and talk about the situation. 
The three commanding officers offered support of President Bush's decision to launch an at­tack. 
"I think President Bush ago­nized over the issue and made the decision that was best for the situation," said Dewhirst. 
When asked if he was reas­sured by the President's mes­sage, Dewhirst replied, "Reassured? I don't know if any­one can be reassured. We're at war-nobody's happy to go to war." 
"By refusing to negotiate with us, with the group of Arab na­tions, and the Secretary General of the U.N., Saddam left the rest of the world no other choice," added Hemphill. 
Dewhirst said that a "quick" war is not necessarily guaran­teed. 
"I would hope Saddam Hussein sees what is massed against him and hopefully will conclude quickly that he is not going to win." He did acknowledge, how­ever, that Hussein might not give in, and that could lead to a pro­longed war. 
"There's no way to tell how long this will last," said Hemphill. "The Joint Chiefs of Staff aren't even sure because they don't have all the intelli­gence in." 
Hemphill added that he and the rest of the commanders are re­ceiving their intelligence the same way most students are. "There is no back channel sys­tem among the officers. We're watching a lot of news, too," he said. 
Hanson and Dewhirst said that Notre Dame graduates from the Air Force and Navy programs are probably serving in the Per­sian Gulf, but none that have graduated in the last two years are there. 
Recent graduates from the Army ROTC program at Notre Dame are stationed in the Per­sian Gulf, and many had written Hemphill in the weeks preceding yesterday's attack. 
"I am very close with those that have written, and there's some fine men and women over there," said Hemphill. 
"They're very enthusiastic be­
cause they're ·doing something 
they believe in," he said. 
AP Photo 


Friends 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Thursday, January 17, 1991 
... 

{ .If
• 
'i 
~ 
~­

\ ~ 
\ 
AP Photo
Prayers for peace 

American Muslims pray during Tuesday services at the AI Falah Mosque in the Corona section of New York's Borough of Queens, Tuesday, as war clouded over the Persian Gulf. 
Some students in foreign studies return to U.S.; fate of others remains uncertain 
By KELLEY TUTHILL and MONICAYANT News Writers 
The future continues to remain uneertain for students in Notre Dame and Saint Mary's foreign studies programs. 
Wednesday evening one stu­dr.nt in Notre Damn's London program returned to the United States, leaving England out of parental concern. 
The University has no plans to bring the students in the London program home, according to Anastasia Gutting, director of the program. 
Students in London have re­ceived the same advice as all 



Roemer 
continued from page 1 
Meissm•r. "is to make this war end soon and to protm:t their lives." 
"As one of the youngest mem­bers of the House of Hepresen­tatives," said Roemer, "I have a commitment to this generation, and all of you here as well." 
Hoerner believes that the troops in the Persian Gulf ne~ the support of the American people. lie did say, however, that he would continue to speak out on the issw1 of war. 
Hoemnr was eritical of Bush's policy in the Gulf on several points. 
"We exerdsed about six hours of diplomaey after six months of fadng each other in the desert," he said, referring to the unsuc­cessful talks between Secretary of State James Baker and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz. 
lie also noted that Congress was not consulted on "one of the key decisions" of the Gulf Cri­sis-Bush's decision in November to send an additional 200,000 U.S. troops to the Per­sian Gulf. 
"The Constitution fundamen­tally calls out for Congress to be involved" in the Gulf Crisis, he said. 
Two students in the ND ROTC programs, who did not say their names, spoke out in favor of the war. One said he was willing to fight against Iraq and felt most students in the HOTC program supported Bush's policy in the Gulf. The other HOTC student who spoke said that "we have an obligation to our allies in the Middle East." 
Another student said he sup­ported the war. He did not think American citizens in foreign ci­ties, according to Gutting. They have been told to minimize any drawing of attention to them­selves by avoiding American establishments, such as fast­food restaurants like McDon­ald's. The students have also been asked to dress in a manner that more closely resembles most Europeans, she said. 
In general. they are being told to maintain a low profile in all public places. 
Gutting said that the Univer­sity has been in contact with the 
U.S. Embassy in London about the security of the students. "Embassy officials say they have great faith in the British security 
that sanctions were enough to 
oust Hussein from Kuwait. He 
also said that Hussein "poses a 
present threat" to the security of 
the United States. 
"It's very self-centered to look after only ourselves," he added. "We have to look after the rest of the world." 
Another student who did not give his name said his views "oscillate" back and forth be­tween supporting and opposing 
the war with Iraq. He was disil­
lusioned by what he perceived as 
hypocrisy on the part of such 
nations as Syria and Turkey, 
each of which has been guilty of 
aggression and occupation, he 
said. 
He also said that Americans 
should now realize that they 
need to change their lifestyle in 
order to render the United 
States less dependent on foreign 
oil. He was concerned about the 
environmental impact of war in 
the oil-rich Persian Gulf, saying 
that "human as well as animal 
and plant life" are in danger. 
He concluded that he was very 
concerned with the possibility of 
a military draft. "I don't want to 
be drafted," he said. 
Roemer responded to this last 
concern: "I do not support the 
draft... I don't want to see you 
go over there." He said that he 
believed an all-volunteer military 
was adequate. 
Jeff Jotz, a junior from Fisher 
Hall, expressed concern about 
the damage the U.S. economy 
has suffered and will continue to 
suffer with a war. 
Hoerner responded that he too 
was concerned, and said that he 
has written Secretary of Defense 
Dick Cheney. asking him how 
much a war will cost American 
taxpayers. 
system and feel that the students are as safe in England as they would be in the U.S.," she said. 
The students in Notre Dame's Rome program have also been trying to maintain a low profile, said Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of foreign studies programs. There is concern over the anti-war demonstrations in Rome, she said. 
No update on the Saint Mary's Rome program was available on Wednesday and program director Peter Checca, assistant professor of Modern Languages, said he will update the situation this afternoon. 
Regarding American support of the war, Roemer said, "Vietnam taught us that you don't commit troops before you commit people and before Congress is committed." 
He said that the American peo­ple are "deeply divided" on the war, and that many of his con­stituents did not see Iraq's occu­pation of Kuwait as a national crisis. 
"We will not know if sanctions would have worked," said Hoe­mer, "given what's happened tonight." He said that economic sanctions were having a signifi­cant impact on Iraq's Gross Na­tional Product, per-capita in­come, and acquisition of military spare parts. 
Roemer addressed the concern over the strength of the coalition against Iraq. He referred to a recent statement by former U.S. 
Secretary  of  State  Henry  
Kissinger,  who  said  that  the  
anti-Iraq  coalition  will  

"crumble" if it continues to rely solely on economic sanctions. 
"Well, if it's going to crumble under sanctions, what do we do when the Syrians say they will not go in on offensive actions?" he asked. He was also concerned with the possibility of Israel be­ing drawn into the fight by an Iraqi attack. If Israel retaliated, Arab nations in the anti-Iraq coalition could very well pull out of the coalition, he said. 
Roemer alluded to former U.S. Senator Hobert Kennedy in one of his last remarks, urging ev­eryone to stand by their ideals: 
"When one person stands up for a cause, or is committed to an ideal, or strikes out against an injustice, a tiny ripple of hope is sent forward." 

page 7 
::: .::· .:: :~: 
this poll, we randomly asked stud~nts their reactions were to the U.S. attack on and if they agreed with the decision. 
information was compiled by Shonda Wilson, were taken by Elisa Klosterman. 
"I think it's important 
that we took a strong stand at the beginning and have maintained it throughout. I support our position in the Middle East, and I think that Bush has handled the situation as he should have." 
-Jill Jankowski (Junior) 

"I'm really torn because there's one side of me that knows what Bush is trying to accomplish and then 1 
l ~
there's another side that feels that war is a useless answer to peace. My heart really breaks for the people who might die who had great futures ahead of them." 
-Kate Beck (Saint Mary's) 

"I'm worried about what's going on. I've got friends in the Gulf, and I'm wondering what their condition is. I'm not sure if its the right thing to do, but it's happening ...." 
-Matt Bomberger (Sophomore) 
"I wish it hadn't come to this, but Hussein just pushed us to it. He could have done a partial pull-out and really saved himself. It is too bad he didn't. The burden's on his shoulders." 
-Ken Roach 
(Sophomore) 

"I feel that it is a real travesty that the sons and daughters and brothers of many of our American citizens are fighting in a battle in which the motives are unknown, but yet throughout history the overt strug~les of unfortunate individuals from around the world have in many cases been ignored by this 'great U.S.A.;' therefore, we as a nation must begin to reevaluate the reason for which we aggressively attack other 'barbaric nations.' The question which should be asked is 'aren't we the barbarians?"' 
-Joe Wilson (Sophomore) 
"Since we did attack, I am glad that we did it with such force that we appear to have been effective. I am also glad that the American public has been informed about the situation since the beginning." 
-Melinda Carver 


~~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 

Leaders 
continued from page 1 
intellectual substance. 
"People (hall residents) did not expect us to act so quickly," said Newton. He described stu­dents as worried and upset. Some Sorin residents have relatives stationed in the Middle East. 
Father Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall, voiced his strong opposition to the war in the Gulf. "War is ultimately wrong and sinful," he said. "There are other ways to solve international problems besides war." 
He said that the news of the war was not really news, as the world had been preparing and expecting such action for some time. "It has been building on a daily basis," he said. 
Ross said that he planned to 
attend the rally at the Peace 
Memorial today at noon. 
Michael Affleck, assistant 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r
' 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
Stocks plunge 

professional specialist at the 
Center for Social Concerns, ex­
pressed his feelings of shock 
upon learning of the strike. 
"I'm just shocked, but in some 
ways, I shouldn't be." 
Affleck gathered with hun­dreds of students throughout the night at the esc to pray and organize response to the strike. He said he thinks most of the student body is supportive of the troops and believes that "all across campus, in every sector, there 1s a desire for peacemak­ing." 
He said dialogue between students and professors is paramount at this time. "I would personally call on every professor to make this the number one priority, to talk about it and individualize it in their classes. I don't think we can ignore the overwhelming feelings (of concern)" among students, he said. 
Florentine Hoelker, Kelley Tuthill and Monica Yant con­tributed to this report. 
AP Photo 


A coatless floor dealer flashes hand signals at the Tokyo Stock Exch~nge Wednesday before the 2 p.m., midnight EST U.N. deadline for Iraq ~o pull out of Kuwait. Stock prices plunged, losing 
3.32 percent, as Investors opted to await news of imminent war. 
When y<?U party remerilber to... 


Don't h'et wrecked. Ifyou re not sober-or vou're not sure­let SOlllt'OilC else do till' driving 





Work up to 6 months 1n B11tam. Ireland. France. Germany. Jama1ca. NeYT Zealand. and Costa R1ca. Counc11's Work Abroad Pro· gram. the only one ol1ts kmd 1n lhe \.) S cuts through all the red lapel 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs. d1scount air lares. language courses. and more. 
Council on lnt 'I Educational Exchange 
(U.S. Sponsor of the lnt'l Student I. D. Card} 
nci 
Chicago. IL 312·951-0585 Evanston, IL 708-475·5070 
EDUCATION 
FOR THE 

REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy­relevant issuffi. 
AREA CONCENTRATIONS: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Interna­tional relations, Inter­american relations, inter­national business man­agement, comparative development, strategic and national security studiffi. 
Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by February 15. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL SWDIES 
UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123 CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 

The Observer 

Thursday, January 17, 1990 

AP Photo
In reserve 

U.S.. Mar~ne ~eservist~ fro~ the 8th ~ank battalion, Bravo Co., which is based in Syracuse, N.Y., take part In a live f1re exerc1se w1th .30-cahbre machine guns, and M-60 tanks in the Saudi desert Tuesday. 
PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 
PARSONS IN PARIS June 21-Auguet 12 Paint on the L.elt Bank. explore prehistoric caves in the Dordogne, visit the masterpieces of renaissance art in Tuscany. Courses include painting, drawing, art history and the liberal arts. Students may choose to spend the last two weeks of the program in the Dordogne or Cortona, Italy. 
PHOTOGRAPHY IN PARIS June 2Wuly 21 Study both the aesthetics and the craft of photography in the c~y that has in­spired great photographers for 150 years. Guest lecturers and visits to Parisian galleries supplement the curriculum. 
FASHION IN PARIS June 2Wuly 21 Study the history and contemporary trends of French fashion design through visits to Parisian museums and costume collections. Guest lecturers and visits to design studios and retail outlets are part of the program, as are daily classes in fashion illustration. 
HISTORY OF ARCHITECfURE a DECORATIVE ARTS IN PARIS 
June 2Wuly 21 Offered in collaboration w~h the renowned Musee des Arts Decoratlfa, this pro­gram focuses on the history of French architecture and European decorative arts. Excursions to points outside of Paris are included; last summer, students visited Versailles, Vaux le Vicomte and Fontainebleau. 
MODERN PARIS June 2Wuly 21 Combining architectural history with drawing, this program focuses on the development of Paris In the modern period (1830 to the present). 
PALEOLITHIC ART AARCHAEOLOGY OF THE DORDOONE 
July 21-Auguet 12 Daily class sessions near the town ol L8s Eyzies de Tayac, in southwestern France, are devoted to lectures and guided visits to the aren famous and lesa well-known prehistoric caves, living lli1es and archaeological excavatlona. 
HISTORY Ofl ARCHITECfURE IN ITALY June 2Wuly 21 The architectural heritage of Italy Ia studied In Rome, Florence and Venice, where on-site presentations are made by Parsons faculty. 
HISTORY Ofl ARCHITECTURE l DICORATIVI ARTI IN OAIAT IAITAIN July I-Augull4 This four-week curriculum, c0118ring the years 1800-1900, is offered In London, with aeveral excursions to nearby towns and country houaes. 
PARSONS IN WEST AFRICA MALl: July 2""-'ly 14 
IVORY COAIT: July 11-Augull II Workshops In ceramics and fibers will Introduce students to artlata and artisans in aeveral Ivory Coast villages, where th888 craltl can be studied In their original context. A photography curriculum examines techniques ol documen· tatlon and reportage In regions ol great natural beauty and cultural dlwraity. The history ol African art and architecture alao Is offered. Aseparate curriculum in Mallia available. 
All progremslnclude round trip airfare, accommodations and land tr.nalera. Academic credit Ia available to quaiWied students. For more Information, pleue return the coupon or call: 
(212) 741·8975, Ext. 17 
PII"'Inl School of Deelgn Office of Special Progr1m1 88 Fifth Avenue, N.Y., N.Y. 10011 

Please send Information about: 
0 Pai'IOnt In Parts 0 Photography In Parts 0 Fashion In Parts 
o Architecture & Decorative Arts In Parts 
0 Modem Parte 
o 
Paleolithic Art 0 Architecture In Italy 0 Architecture In Great Britain 

o 
Parsons In West Africa 


Name _______________________________________ 
Add~-----------------------------------­
City-------State-----Zip ___ 
CP34 


Viewpoint
Thursday, January 17, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....••••••.....•.••.... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .••..•.•.Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .....•.•..••..• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor •••••••••............ Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor.••••••••••••••••Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •.••..•...•.........••••• Eric Bailey OTS Director .........•........... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ....•... Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL 
UN launches unfortunate but necessary attack 
The United States led an Allied offensive attack on Iraq yestnrday, following Saddam Hussein's failure to withdraw his troops from Kuwait by the Jan. 15 deadline established by the United Nations. Although arguments may be made against any UN intervention in the Gulf, once the Jan. 15 deadline passed, those protests became obsolete. Bush faeed two basic alternatives: 1) to ignore the deadline and continue economic sanctions or 2) to enforce the deadline and invade. Given the progression of events in the Middle East since Aug. 2, the allied nations had no alternative but to restore peace in the region through a forcible strike. 
After delivering an ultimatum to Saddam Hussein, the United States had to stand by its decision to forcibly remove Iraq from Kuwait or lose credibility to this dictator and other nations across the world. If aggressors like Saddam infer that the United States will not back up its promises with appropriate actions, they will certainly question America's sincerity and strength. 
Estimates indicate that economic sanctions against Iraq will take at least one year to effectively achieve their purpose. American troops would presumably be forced to remain in the Gulf region throughout this entire period, leading to the eventual exhaustion of both troop morale and military supplies. 
Moreover, the coalition that currently exists between the United States and its allies may disintegrate during this time. The United States, Syria, Israel, the Soviet Union and Saudi Arabia constitute an unlikely and temporary alliance susceptible to internal strife. Iraq, meanwhile, would gain additional time to build up its manpower and arsenals. 
Additionally, economic sanctions alone are apparently inadequate incentive for a dictator who has repeatedly demonstrated blatant disregard for the welfare of his people. 
All human life is precious; any war is too long, and any casualties are too many. Yet, American action at this time is a necessary evil. Saddam Hussein has demonstrated a clear unwillingness to either negotiate or comply with UN demands. Therefore, the United States had to adhere to its promise to enforce the Jan. 15 deadline and liberate Kuwait. 
There is no clear solution to the controversial situation in the Gulf, and violence is never a favorable option. At this point, we ean only hope that the eonflict eoncludes quickly with a minimal loss of life. While the U.S. commits to war, we must continue to pray for peace and a safe return for all American service personnel stationed in the Gulf. 
DOONESBURY 
YOU WANT 70 KNOW fAJfAT MOST AWIZ&t? Me ON (}{)R. 
I'[) FOR60TTtN a/HATA RJR/CJlX3H, MAN"! 7H& 
HIJMONeotlS 0Pf3RAT/ON /<EAR. t::OI&lONS .' 
~~TivSANPSUPPORT 
/ IS! HUl-, 7HeR&MUSTEJe 1? PCRSONNE:i, FOR &Vt:RY ON& OF US/ 
/ 

Dear Editor: 
I was both disheartened and amazed at the response to President Bush's letter which was printed in today's paper. 
Mr. Bush's description of an invasion and looting of a house is completely justified. As the Iraqi troops moved through Kuwait, they showed no respect for human life. As Amnesty International has documented, the Iraqi soldiers committed unforgivable atrocities. They unplugged incubators support­ing prematurely born babies, they broke store front windows, and stole anything of value as they went. Worst of all, they are being led by a madman who has and, no doubt will, use any weapon he can obtain. To say that Mr. Bush used this description in a condescending way or as mere propaganda is to show naivety of the severity of Iraq's actions. 
Another display of ignorance is in the statement that "the majority" of the service women and men in the Middle East are opposed to the cause for which they will soon be fighting. On the contrary, the Americans in Saudi Arabia and in the Gulf are prepared, both physically and mentally, to see that justice is brought to Hussein and free­dom is returned to the Kuwaiti people. 
The majority of these outstanding men and women are willing to fight so that premature babies are able to live and we in America are safe from the very real possibility of a future nuclear attack from Iraq if Hussein is allowed to remain in power. It is unfortu­nate that the American media only highlights the defectors and dissenters. I congratulate Mr. Bush for giving us an ex­ample of a true American who is willing to fight for freedom and justice. 
For the past five months, Americans have debated the righteousness of war and the necessity of American forces in the Gulf. The U.S. Congress has spent a considerable amount of time debating these issues. College students and other demonstrators have questioned and criticized President Bush. In short, the American demo­cratic system has worked to the fullest. I praise this and admire all its participants, no matter what side they argue; for, the exchange and discussion of ideas is the cornerstone of the 

page 9 
American system. 
However, there comes a point in time when all citizens must come together as Americans and stand together behind the leadership of the president, the man whom WE have elected. When this time comes, wn must be one in our support for the president and for our troops. In the Persian Gulf Crisis this time has come. Yes, let us pray for peace and mourn the loss of life, but let us not criticize our leadership or insult our mili­tary. Let us show Saddam Hussein that we can and will stand together behind the lead­ership of the president. Let us pledge our unyielding support and confidence to our elected leaders. 
JohnS. Barry Keenan Hall Jan. 16, 1990 

-
Accent 
page 10 

Student Reaction 
'Eerie silence' pervades the 
• ND/SMC campuses following 
The Observer/ Elisa Klosterman 
Six freshmen from Pasquerilla West show their view on the Iraqi situation yesterday afternoon. 
the U.S. attack on Iraq 


-
-
-
By COLLEEN CRONIN 
Accent Editor 

As the United States launched its attack on Iraq last night, it was apparent that the student body felt the great impact of the strike. 
Very few people were out of their dorms. There were not the usual strains of music indicative of the second night of the semester. The Huddle did not have the usual crowd of snackers. The campus was covered in an eerie silence. You could feel that something was happening. 
The feeling was even stronger in the dorms. Groups of stu­dents were riveted to their tele­vision sets; there were periodic phone calls to family and friends as events unfolded. It was almost impossible to se­cure a free long-distance tele­phone line. 
Dillon, Sorin and Siegfried Halls were among the dorms that held Masses for peace last night, and rectors all over campus spent the evening with their residents. At Saint Mary's the atmosphere was no differ­ent. Every dorm chapel re­mained open for all-night prayer. Off-campus, too, at Turtle Creek and Campus View, the atmosphere was a quiet one, the only sound coming from television sets. 
Hundreds of students packed the Center for Social Concerns to follow the coverage. An emergency demonstration was in the planning stages when the attack was launched, so the Center simply shifted gears. It remained open all night for students to come in to watch the television coverage, pray and just be with other students. The Center will be there for people "looking for personal support for feelings of sadness, and also looking ways to re­spond organizationally," said Michael Affleck, assistant pro­fessional specialist at the esc. 
Student sentiments on cam­pus were mixed as to whether or not the attack should have been launched. 
A group of seniors in Farley had been following the happenings from the onset and debated the necessity of the strike all evening. The general attitude was that the attack was inevitable, but also surfacing were feelings of help­lessness, confusion and even anger. 
"Diplomacy failed-we had to do something," stated Wendy Cunningham. 
"All we can do is just wait for the next move," said Malini Chablani. "How can I even think about going to class tomorrow?" 
A room of freshmen down the hall shared the same feelings. All have friends or family over in Saudi Arabia and agreed that while people may not sup­port the attack, they have to support the American troops involved. 
"Now that it's started I see no reason to oppose it. .. I don't necessarily agree we should give up lives for oil but we have to give our support to the troops," said Maria Nonnenmann. 
At the Grotto a handful of people had gathered. All looked pensive and concerned. 
The United States attack on Iraq holds some scary possibili­ties for senior Brian Cody, who could very well end up in the Persian Gulf if the situation is prolonged and a draft is neces­sary. He is against waging a war but admits that the U.S. is in a no-win situation and that he cannot offer a peaceful al­ternative. 
"Hussein is going to do any­thing and everything is his power to stop the coalition forces," said Cody. 
A group of students in Keenan watched the television coverage beginning 6:30 p.m. and expected to be up all night following events as they unfold. 
''I'm totally shocked and re­ally nervous. It's going to be hard to go to bed," said junior Dennis Wolfe. He and the others agree that the U.S. had no alternative, calling Hussein and Iraq "lunatics." 
"It's the best possible thing we could have done-peace failed brutally. All these people understand is a fist in the face," said Wolfe. Though they are supporting the attack they are also hoping for a _quick surrender as they, too, would be eligible for the draft. 
Down the hall someone hung a large "Go U.S." sign. 
Father Joe Ross, rector in Morrissey, witnessed three dif­ferent student reactions as he made his way around his dorm. Some students were adamant supporters and wanted to "blow them [Iraqis] back to the Stone Age," while some groups were tense and launched into arguments. Others were simply remaining quiet and somber as the events continued. 
"I never thought that I'd see a war in our generation because of Vietnam," said Colin Clary, sophomore. "It's freaky and kind of scares me." 
''I'm shocked that it's happen­ing but I guess at this point that it's necessary and unrealistic to run around with peace signs. We might as well give our full support to our country," said Kevin Jones, a sophomore. Other individual student reactions were ones of resigna­tion laced with disagreement and confusion: 
•"Why 
is the U.S. the one with all the troops if it was a United Nations deadline?" asked Kate Sullivan, a senior. 

•''I'm 
not against aggression. Fighting has its place but I'm not sure this is the right place," 


said Sam Nigro, a senior, of the Students for Environmental Action group. 
• 
"The war needs to be protested by anyone who calls himself Catholic," said Tom Esch, a graduate student, of the Gulf Crisis Action Group. 

•"If 
the reason we are over there are true, why aren't we also in Lithuania and Afghanistan?" asked Kate Monahan, a senior. 

•"It's 
ridiculous to suggest that it will be a quick war with minimal casualties. They have to be honest that there will be [casualties]." said Matt Taylor, a sophomore. 


A demonstration has been organized for noon today at the Peace Memorial, and late last night students were putting up flyers around campus to alert the rest of the student body. Affleck was pleasantly sur­prised at the student reaction. 
"I was not prepared for such an outpouring of response from the student body. I think it's remarkable that this campus is filled with so many peace makers." he said. 
"It's weird," summed up Julie Van Tiem, a freshman. "It's history in the making and we are sitting here watching it. Years from now our kids are going to ask us where we were when this happened." 
Members of the Observer staff also contributed to this article. 
.------------------------------------­
l 
I 
The Observer 

I
Thursday, January 17, 1990 page 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Michigan's Vaughn declares for NFL draft 
NEW YORK (AP) -Facing a who was the team's second know what's going to happen Feb. 1 declaration deadline, leading tackler last season, and around here." some college football cornerback Kevin Smith. "It's Carpenter caught 52 passes 
All women's novice crew members -mandatory meeting on undergraduates are beginning something I'm definitely for 895 yards and five 
today in 104 O'Shag. to apply for early entry into the considering," Williams said. touchdowns last season. His NFL. That doesn't mean they'll ''I'd say there's a 90 percent good friend and ex-Syracuse all gnt there. chance I'll be back next year," teammate, Rob Moore, passed 
The Notre Dame Cycling team will be holding an organi­
Thirty-eight undergraduates Smith said. "But this could also up his final year of eligibility zational meeting on Tuesday, Jan 22, at 7 p.m. in N.S.H. Rm. 127.
applied for the draft last year, be a situation where it's time to after graduating and was the If you can't make it or have any questions, call Jonathan Puskas atthe first time the NFL offered do something else and move first round pick of the New that option, but only 18 were on." York Jets in the supplemental 
x3317. Anybody who is interested in riding should attend. No selected. Of the remaining 20, Also on the fence are some draft. 
experience necessary! only nine had played college marquee names-Notre Dame Clemson's Gardocki, fourth in ball in 1989 and four of them running back Raghib "Rocket" the nation in both field goals were under some sort of Ismail, runner-up for the and punts, explained why he Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame acadnmic suspension when Heisman Trophy and a finalist chose to give up his last year of and St. Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall forthey applied for the draft. for the AAU's Sullivan Award, eligibility. "I didn't want to take information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics, Michigan tailback Jon quarterback Todd Marinovich the chance of getting hurt," he Friday, Feb. 1.
Vaughn, who reached 1,000 of USC and Syracuse wide said. "(The decision) was tough. yards faster than any back in receiver Rob Carpenter. But the timing was right." school history, took the plunge Ismail has insisted that he 
Wednesday, joining a pair of would return for his senior "I thought over my options Clemson teammates, All­year at Notre Dame but he for a long time," said his 
Women 
American placekicker Chris could change his mind with the teammate, Davis, who led the 
continued from page 16
Gardocki and cornerback lure of a big money contract. ACC with six interceptions and Dexter Davis. NFL scouts project him as a top had 36 tackles last season. "I ers. That squad finished 23-6 
and won its last 12 games. 
Earlier, Au burn offensive pick in the first round when he sat down with my parents and "I hope the team can pull to­
lineman Ed King, North comes out. they helped me come to the Carolina State safety Jesse Marinovich was kicked off the decision to forego my final gether like we did last year," Campbell and running back USC team by coach Larry Smith year." 
said McGraw, adding that the Handy Baldwin of Mississippi last week after missing a members of the team are view­had declared. meeting and there were reports Draft analyst Mel Kiper said ing the loss as they did last Baldwin, an all-SEC running that he was leaving school, per­Davis would be picked in the year. "They have to rise above back. said he decided to haps to transfer to another first round and that Gardocki the adversity." declare following the Gator school, perhaps to declare for would go between the second The remaining Irish players Bowl. "My father and I sat the draft. On Tuesday, however, and fourth, because teams will have to gel quickly, Mc­down and discussed the matter his father said Marinovich was usually wait until later rounds 
Graw noted. Notre Dame faces seriously," the 23-year-old said. registering for classes and to draft kickers. Kiper said Marquette this Saturday and "We agreed that I wasn't attempting to arrange a A&M's Wilson would also be a will host Dayton the following getting any younger and that meeting with Smith. first round pick. 
Monday. "That's not much time for a
I'm a couple of years older than "Hight now, (Todd) hasn't everyone else ... we both made up his mind what he The league has long pre­new chemistry to form," strongly believe that it's time to wants to do," Marv Marinovich ferred that players complete 
McGraw said. movn on." said Tuesday. "I have not ad­their collegiate eligibility rather The Irish will probably miss On deck was Texas A&M vised him. He has to make his than come out early. Haysbert, considered Notre 
Dame's best defensive player,
fullback Hobert Wilson, ex­own decisions that affect his pectt~d to formally announce for life." "Staying in school is in the the most. The junior, who was 
academically ineligible last
the draft after he meets with Carpenter hinted earlier this best interest of the Aggie coach lt.C. Slocum, who month that the decision of overwhelming majority of spring as well, ranks second on was out of town on a recruiting coach Dick MacPherson to young athletes for educational, the team with 12.5 points per trip. "The one thing I want to leave Syracuse for the NFL New athletic and personal reasons," game, and third in rebounding do now is help my family," England Patriots might prompt commissioner Paul Tagliabue with 4.9 per game. Wilson told the llouston Post. him to go pro. "I plan to make said last summer in testimony 
McGraw has not decided who lie could be joined by a my decision in a couple of before the Knight Commission, will replace Haysbert, although couple of teammates, weeks," he said. "I'm still studying reform in college Sara Liebscher started Tues­
day's game against Loyola. 
athletics.
linebacker Anthony Williams, thinking about it. I really don't 
Classifieds 
I NEED DELIVERY PERSON FOR USA TODAY. EARLY A.M.
( NOTICES 

DELIVERY TO DORMS, 5 
USED TEXTBOOKS DAYS/WEEK. CALL BOB POWELL 25% off list price AT287-8531. Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO ave and Howard 
ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, TYPING AVAILABLE sleepaway camp in Massachusetts 287-4082 seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI. lifeguard. tennis. arts & crafts, all ••• DON'T BE STUPID ••• land & water sports, fitness, 
gymnastics. piano/play for shows, Why overpay lor books -drama, judo. dance, archery, again? This time, make your photography, computers, model first book stop rocketry. guitar, radio, video, 
Dillon's STB Booksale yearbook, newspaper. wilderness, woodwork. AN. -Used book prices. bookstore 6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 convenience Brassie Rd .. Eastchester, NY 
-Thurs., Jan. 17 and Fri., Jan. 10707. 600-955-CAMP 18 from 7·10pm; Sat., Jan. 19 from 10am-5pm in the 
Dillon Pub. A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 
· First come, first serve. No DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & refunds. Check/cash sales FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA only. 
$1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-600·638-6786. 
SUMMER JOBS
\ LOST/FOUND 

-HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY COUNSELORS/SUMMER 
NIGHT CHILDREN'S THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM CAMPS/NORTHEAST·TOP #115, P.O. BOX 1214. AND A SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY. BUSINESS KEY-AROUND TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST 
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, FOUND. CALL 284-4308. THANK ' BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, YOU II 
DANCE, DRAMA. DRUMS, 
FENCING, FOOTBALL. GOLF, FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, lnit. "R?N" If yours call x3470 & ID HORSEBACK-ENGLISH. color and MI. 
JUGGLING, KARATE. LACROSSE. NATURE. PHOTOGRAPHY. PIANO, ROCKETRY,
WANTED 

ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING. 
Roomate lor two bedroom SCUBA, SOCCER. TRACK, townhouse at Tulle Creek WATER SKI. WEIGHTS, WOOD. wanted. Bedroom is furnished. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP Contact Tim at x2506. WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, 
MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) VIDEO OF MIAMI PEP RALLY. 381-5963. WOMEN CALL OR Doesn't have to be perfect. Will pay 
WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX going rate. Call parent collect 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 evenings 518·273-2792. (617) 934-6536. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS· NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINAOU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 361-5963. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332 
(617) 934·6536. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1 -600-343-6373. 
CONSTRUCTION JOBS now hiring all positions. Both skilled & unskilled. Male & Female openings. For info. Call (615) 779-5505 Ext. T­541. 
FOR RENT ) 
FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS. 
PRIVATE ROOM, $220/MO, ALL UTILITIES, FULL HOUSE PRIV., WASHER & DRYER, CLEAN HOME NEAR NO. 287-7926. 
QUAINT APTS. NEAR N.D. -furnished efficiency $225 -upstairs 1 bedroom $255 -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 deposit, references 616-483-9572 
FREEDOMI Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-3616 
Furnished efficiency -across street from bus stop $225 call Brandon x1670 
Large Furnished Turtle Creek Stud. Apt 5 min from campus $390 neg 234-1539 
FOR SALE 
82 VOLVO, GREAT COND. PIONEER STEREO $1900 OR B/0, 272-4223 

PERSONALS 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION TO CANCUN & PANAMA CITY BEACH! Organize a group or campus-wide event! Earn Commissions & Free Trips! Call: (800) 626-9100. 
FREE SPRING BREAK VACATION IN CANCUNI COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES. EARN A FREE TRIP AND CASH. NOTHING TO BUY-WE PROVIDE EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 1-600-395-4896 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
More importantly, said Mc­Graw, is that Notre Dame finds someone who can guard the opponent's best player, a role Haysbert had filled for the first half of the season. McGraw said she would like Krissi Davis to take that job, but the senior has been plagued with knee problems this year and her mo­bility is limited. 
"We need to have nine healthy bodies," said McGraw. Losing Fitzgerald, Rupe and Jones doesn't help, either. 
"We're very disappointed," said McGraw. "The bench has been a very big factor in our success this year." 
McGraw pointed out that Fitzgerald, a biology major, and Rupe, a science major, both have cumulative grade points of just under 3.0. 
"They just had tough semesters," she said, "and Tootie, a freshmen. did well in three of her courses, but had problems in one." 
McGraw added that the NCAA does not require athletes to maintain a minimum grade point average, but Notre Dame athletes must earn a 2.0 to re­
tain their eligibility. 

The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline tor next-day classifleds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 
spaces. 
JUNIORS 

CLASS DINNER AT SENOR KELLY'S TONIGHT FROM 6-9. ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BAR 
FOR ONLY $4. 
JUNIORS 

TO THE COL ANE CLARY'S OF THE WORLD, LIFE IS HELL WHEN PEOPLE PLAY GAMES WITH YOUR MIND. 
BUT I GUESS THEY WOULD NOT KNOW WHAT THAT IS LIKE, SINCE THEY ARE THE ONE'S PLAYING THE GAMES. HONESTY ~UTEHS~ BT~SETY~~~:o~~TBUT I KNOW THAT EITHER. SO NOW IT'S THEIR TIME TO LIVE IN HELL. BYE WITH LOVE AND A KISS TATTOOED ON THEIR CHEEKI 
The band voted by Rolling Stone as the most likely to play at Club 23, Fri. Jan. 18th: 
JESTER 

Band looking for BASSIST call Greg 234-1048 or Scott 282­1557 
NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 1991? Earn $500-1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details -Rush $1.00 with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 Laura! Hill Orlando Fl.32818 
Cruise Ship Jobs . 
HIRING Men-Women. Summer/! Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS. OUR GUIDES. RECREATION PERSONNEL. Excellent pay plus FREE travel. Canbbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico. CALL NOW! Call refundable. 
1-206-736-7000, Ext. C33 7 
JUNIOR/SENIORS EARN OVER $1200 PER MONTH DURING LAST 2YEARS OF COUEGE. 
Get a head start on an exciting, chal­lenging position after graduation. While you ftnlsh school, we will pay 
you over$1200 per month to study and maintain good grades. We have the best graduate level nuclear training program In the world. Moths, physics, 
chemistry, technical malors, and engineering students may qua.fy. U.S. dtlzens less than 26 years old, 3.3 GPA 
or better, and good heahh are the 111
req rements. 
for more Information, call Navy Management programs toll free: 
1-800-.527-8836. 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOWI DAYTONA BEACH .... Sff9' 
l f!UGMTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND .. , Sf29' 
S 4ND 1 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT .... S96 • 
1 S AND 1 fVIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE SfJ7' 
1 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH .•. Sf24' 
1 NIGHTS 
CORPUS CHRIST/I MUSTANG ISLAND SfDB' 
5 AND 1 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND Sff2' 
S 4NO l NICHTS CALl TOLL FfflEE TODAY 
1·800·321·5911 


-
-~ 
-

page 12 Scoreboard 
NHL Glance  NBA Glance  Transactions  
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlelon w L T NY Rangers 26 15 8 Philadelphia 23 21 6 Pittsburgh 2<1 21 3 N-Jersey 19 19 10 Washington 21 2<1 2 NY Islanders 16 24 6  Pte 60 52 51 48 « 38  GF 182 164 204 174 153 131  GA 150 160 176 165 157 160  Home 14-6-5 11-9-4 15-11-1 13-6-5 11-10-1 9-13-3  Away 12-9-3 12-12-2 9-10-2 6-13-5 10-14-1 7-11-3  Dlv 9-6-3 7-10-5 12-9-0 8-10-5 11-9-1 6-9-4  EASTERN CONFERENCE AUanUc Dlvlelon w L Pet Boston 29 7 .806 Philadelphia 22 14 .611 Washington 15 19 .441 N-York 15 20 .429 New Jersey 10 25 .286 Miami 10 27 .270  GB 7 13 14 1/2 181/2 19 1/2  LtD 7-3 4-6 6-4 3-7 0-10 3-7  Streak Lost2 Won 2 Lost 1 Lost2 Lost 11 Lost 1  Home 19-2 14-4 10-5 8-11 8-12 7-11  Away 10-5 8-10 5-14 7-9 2-13 3-16  Coni 19-5 17-7 9-12 9-13 ~16 4-17  BASEBALL American League CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms with Dave Otto, p~cher, on a Class AAA contract. MINNESOTA TWIN8-Agreed to terms with Larry Casian, phcher, on a one-year contract. TEXAS RANGER5--Signed a four-year working agreement with Tulaa ol the Texas League. National League PITTSBURGH PIRATE5-Agreed to terms with  
Adame Dlvlalon Boston 25 Montreal 25 Buffalo 19 Hartford 20 Quebec 10  15 18 17 22 29  8 5 10 5 8  58 55 48 45 28  171 157 163 137 134  155 144 149 157 207  14-6-3 14-7-2 10-6-6 10-10-3 5-13-5  11-9-5 11-11-3 9-11-4 10-12-2 5-16-3  10-6-3 10-5-3 5-8-4 7-9-3 5-9-5  Central Dlvlalon Chicago 27 Detroit 26 Milwauk99 26 Atlanta 21 Indiana 14  10 11 12 15 23  .730 .703 .664 .583 .378  1 1112 5112 13  9-1 10-0 6-4 8-2 4-6  Won 7 Won 10 Won 1 Won 2 Lost 2  17-3 16-1 19-1 13-6 12-6  10-7 10-10 7-11 8-9 2-17  16-5 18-5 17-11 11-14 9-15  Bob Kipper, p~cher, on a one-year contract. SAN DIEGO PADRE5-Agreed to terms with Darrin Jackson, outfielder, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Baeketball A..oelatlon  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlelon  Cleveland Charlone  12,,  25 24  .324 .314  15 15  1-9 3-7  Won 1 Lost3  8-11 8-11  4-14 3-13  9-15 7-15  NBA-Named Stu Jackson dir9Cior of basketball operations. USA Basketball  
w L Chicago 31 14 StLouis 26 13 Detro~ 22 21 Minnesota 12 28 Toronto 12 30 Smythe Dlvielon Los Angel96 26 15 Calgary 25 17 Edmonton 21 20  T "' 7 5 8 4 5 5 3  Pte 66 59 49 32 28 57 55 45  GF 164 170 163 141 130 189 194 144  GA 126 135 170 172 190 147 151 142  Home 17-6-2 12-5-5 18-6-0 7-14-4 7-17-2 15-6-3 13-7-1 13-8-1  Away 14-8-2 14-8-2 4-15-5 5-14-4 5-13-2 11-9-2 12-10-4 8-12-2  Dlv 13-6-1 11-5-2 9-7-2 2-12-3 5-10-2 7-6-3 11-6-2 7-9-2  WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweet Dlvlalon w L Pet San Antonio 25 9 .735 Utah 25 12 .676 Houston 19 17 .528 Dallas 12 23 .343 Minnesota 12 23 .343 Orlando 10 28 .263 Denver 8 29 .216  GB 1112 7 13 112 13 112 17 18 1/2  LtD 7-3 8-2 4-6 3-7 5-5 4-6 2-8  Streak Won 1 Won 1 Lost 3 Lost4 Won 1 Lost2 Won 1  Home 13-2 16-3 12-5 7-9 8-10 8-10 6-11  Away 12-7 9-9 7-12 !>-14 4-13 2-18 2-18  Coni 18-5 18-6 11-11 8-18 8-16 8-20 4-20  USAB-Named Andy Landers, Jane Albright, Vince Goo and Jacqueline Hullah coaches and Leta Andrews, Alan Eads, Marti Gasser and Sal Buscaglia assistant coachea for the 1991 U.S. Olylf1lic Festival. EQUESTRIAN American Horse Shows Association AHSA-Narned Jane Forbes Clark pr9Sident. FOOTBALL  
Vancouver 18 25 4 40 Winnipeg 14 27 8 36 Tueeday'e Gamea Boston 5, N.Y. Islanders 4 Edmonton 2. N.Y. Rangers 2, tie Philadelphia 5, Pinsburgh 4 Montreal 5. Minneaota 1 St. Louis 7, Washington 3 Calgary 7, Winnpeg 5 Wedneaday'a Gamea Late Game Not Included Buffalo 5, Detro~ 3 Hartford 4. Loa Angeles 3 Chicago 2. N-Jersey 2. tie Winnipeg at Vancouver, (n)  149 156  177 10-10-2 8-15-2 6-12-0 180 10-11-3 4-16-5 7-5-5 Thuraday'e Gamea Los Angeles at Boston, 7:35p.m. Edmonton at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Chicago at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Washington at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. Montreal at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Frlday'a Gamaa No gam98 scheduled Saturday'• Game All-Star Game at Chicago, 1 p.m.  Paetnc Divlelon Portland 32 7 .821,,Phoenix 24 .686 6 LA lakers 23 11 .676 6112 Golden State 20 16 .556 10 1/2 Seanle 16 18 .471 13 112 LA Clippers 13 24 .351 18 Sacramento 8 25 .242 2i Tueaday'a Gamea Atlanta 117, Indiana 1 06 Golden State 112, New Jersey 111, OT Miami 104, Orlando 102 Portland 132, Minnesota 1 17 Phoenix 127, Washington 97 Utah 124, San Antonio 102 Seanle 146, Denver 99 LA Lakers 128, Charlene 1 03  6-4 Won 2 17-2 15-5 8-2 Won 5 14--4 10-7 8-2 Won 4 15-4 8-7 5-5 Won 2 12--4 8-12 5-5 Won 1 11-6 -5-12 2-8 Won 1 10-7 3-17 2-8 Won 1 7-9 1-16 Thuraday'a Gamee Detroit at Houston, 8:30 p.m. LA Lakers at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Frlday'a Gamea  20-5 17-6 16-8 13-10 8-12 10-11 6-17  World League of American Football MONTREAL MACHINE-Named Gordon Cahill general manager; Jacques Dussauh coach; Ray Beaulieu communications and press relations director; Raymond Lalonde assistant communications and press relations director; Pierre Villeneuve marketing director and ticket manager; and Johanna Savoie administrative secretary to the preaident. HOCKEY National Hockey League DETROIT RED WINGS-Called up Marc Potvin, right wing, from Adirondack of the American Hockey League. TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS-Traded Allalrate, defenseman, to the Washington Capitals for Peter Zezel. center, and Bob Rouse, defenseman.  
NHL Box Scores N. St. Louis Washington 1-3 Sl. Louis 4 3 0-7 First Period-1, St. Louis, HuN -t6 (Bassen, Brown), :31. 2. Washington. Hatcher 15 (Hunter, Pivonka), 2:07 (~)-3, St. Louis, Oates 10 (Hull, CourtnaH), 3:09.4, St. LOUis, Dirk 1. 10:28. 5, St. Louie, Stevena 3 (Courtnall, Lowry), 12:31. . Second Period-6, St. Louis. Oatea 11 (Brown, Hull), 1:15. 7, Washington, Rouse 5 (Rodley, Leach).  Wedneeday'a Gamea Late Game Not Included Golden State 110, Boston 1 05 Cleveland 108, Miami 94 Minn9801a 93, N-York 89 Chicago 99, Orlando 88 San Antonio 100, Dallas 94 Milwaukee 126, Indiana 1 19 Denver 1 1 1 • Charlene 104 Washington at LA ClpP&rs, (n)  New Jersey at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Utah at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. New Vorl< at Miami, 7:30p.m. Golden Stale al Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Atlanta. 8 p.m. LA Clippers at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Charlene at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Orlando at Milwaukoo, 9 p.m. Detroit a! Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Seattle at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m Washington at Portland, 10:30 p.m.  COLLEGE AUSTIN PEAY-Named Vince Hoch defensive coordinator; Danny Palmer recrurting coordinator and Ben Peloar offensive line coach. Retained Ken Matous offensive coordinator. MD.-BALTIMORE COUNTY-Announced Mark Bogosh, center, has leh the basketball team. NOTRE DAME-Announced that LaPhonso Ellis, forward, is academically ineligible to play basketball for the rest of the season. WOFFORD-Named Billy Taylor linebackers coach.  
5:39. 8, StLouis, Brown 7 (Hull, Meagher), 6:12. 9, St. Louis, Ronning 10 (Dirk, Maclean), 14:04.  
Third Period-tO, Washington, Druce 18 (Ridley: Kypraos), 13:55. Shots on goal-Washington 5-12-7-24. St. LOUIS 13-11-!>---29. Goaliee-Washington, Beaupre, Liut. St. Louis, Joseph. A-17,326.  NBA Box Scores  Indiana Top 20  
At Bloomington, Minn.  
Montreal  2  0  3--5  INDIANA (1 19)  ..  
Minneaota  0  1  0-1  Person 6-12 4-417, Thompson 2-4 1-1 5, Smits 1-5 0-0 2. Miller 6-14 4-4 26, M.Wolhame ~9 5-5 15,  Indiana High School Basketball Top 20  
Firat Period-1, Montreal, Savard 13 (Schneider), 7:24.2, Montreal, Svoboda2 (Savard, Turgeon), 9:11 (pp). Second Period-3, Minneaota, Siniaalo 4, 7:36. Third Period--4, Montreal, Carbonneau 9, 7:39. 5, Montreal, Carbonneau 10 (Court nail, McPhoo), 19:08 (pp). 6, Montreal, Coumtall 14 (Schneider), 19:59 (pp). Shots on goal-Montreal13-6-8--27. Minnesota 3-14-!>---22. Goaliea--Montreal, Roy. Minneaota, Casey, Hayward. A-5.375.  McCloud 9-15 0-0 18, Schremp! 7-14 5-7 19, Dreiling 2-4 1-4 5, Sanders 3-5 1-1 7, K.WiHiams 2-2 1-2 5. T atals 44-84 22-28 119. MILWAUKEE (126) Brickowski 1--4 !>-6 7, Roberts 0-1 0-0 0, Skma 2-8 0-0 4, Humphriea 1-t-20 5-6 33, Robertson 7·12 1-1 15, Pierce 10-20 10-11 31, Schayes 5-9 8-9 18, Grayer 8-12 0-0 16, Lohaua 1--4 0-0 2, Henson 0­1 0-0 0, Kornet 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 48-91 29-33 126. Indiana 28 25 37 29-119 Milwauk98 28 36 37 2!>---126  1. Martinsville (13-0) al Bloomington North Fri; va G<eenwood Sal. 2. Gary Rooeeven (1!>-1) beat Gary Mann 67-59; VI No.9 E.Chicago Fri. 3. ConOOI'd (1 0-0) VI Penn Sal. 4. Bedford N. Lawrence (12-0) a! Seymour Fri; va Brownstown Sal. 5. Muncie Central (10-1) at No.17 Muncie South  
At Calgary, Aberta Winn;p.g 1 2 2-5 Calgary 2 1 4-7 First Period--1 Winnipeg Olczyk 16 (Eiynuk, Numminen), :30 (pp). 2. Calgary. Makarov 16 (Fleury Suter), 17:08 (ppj. 3, Calg..;y, Makarov 17 (Macinnis, Nieuwendyk), 19:18 (pp). . Second Period--4, Winnipeg, Paslawski 9 (Carlyle), 3:49. 5, Wonnopeg, MacDerrnd 9 (Oiczyk. Carlyle), 5:5r. 6, Calgary, Makarov 18 (Suter, Roberts). 14:23. . . . . Third Period-7, Calgary, Nieuwendyk 24 (Makarov, Suter), :55 (pp). 8, Wonmpeg, Mcllwaon 9, 1.03 9, Winnipeg, MacDem!id 10 (Sykea, Olczyk), 10:20. 10, Calgary, Macoun 6, 12:40. 11. Calgary, Maneau 8 (M.Hunter), 15:18. 12. Calgary, Gilmour 10, 19:09. Shots on goa~Winnipeg 10-1!>-3--28. Calgary 17-12-21-50. Goali9S-Winnpeg, Tabaracci, Essensa, Tabaracci. Calgary, Wamsley, Vernon. A-20,006.  3-Point goals-Indiana 9-19 (Miller 6-10, McCloud 2-6. Person 1-3), Milwauk98 1-8 (Pierce 1-2, Roberts 0-1, Skma 0-1. Henson 0-1, Lohaus 0-3). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Indiana 45 (Schremp! 9), Milwaukoo 48 (Schay9S 1 1). Assists-Indiana 31 (Person, McCloud 6), Mo_lwauk99 24 (Pierce 6). Total fouls-Indiana 34, Milwaukee 29. Technicals-Schrefllll, Robertson. Moiler, Brickowski. A-14,627. MIAMI(94) Long 4-7 0-0 8, Thompson 3-7 0-0 6, Kessler 2-6 6-7 10, Rice 6-9 0-0 14, Douglas !>-11 1-2 11, Ogg 0-3 0-2 0, Edwards 2-9 0-0 4, Coles 2-7 5-6 9, Burton 7-14 4-5 19, Askins 2-2 0-0 4, Sundvold 4-6 0-0 9. Totals 37-81 16-22 94. CLEVELAND (108) Nance 4-2 4-5 12, Brown 5-7 1-1 11, Daugherty 7-13 8-10 22. Ehlo 8-13 0-0 16, Valentine 3-5 2-2 8, Ferry 4-6 1-2 9, James 6-12 1-2 14, Morton 4-8 1-2 9, Paddio 1-9 1-2 3, Kerr 2-3 0-0 4, Chievous 0-2 0-0 0, Babic 0-4 0-0 0. Totals 44-94 19-26 lOB. Miami 22 17 19 36--94 Cleveland 33 25 28 22-108  Fri. 6. Terre Haute South (9-1) vs Ev.Central Fri; at Bloorrington South Sat. 7. lndpls Brebeul (12-1) at Lawrence Central Sat. 8. Mich. C~y Elston (10-1) a! Elkhart Central Fri. 9. E.Chicago Central (9-2) at No.2 Gary ROOSIMIIt Fri; a1 Lake Central Sat. 10. Mt.Vemon (Hancock) (11-2) vs Eatem Hancock Sat. 11. Anderson Highland (9-1) at Pendleton Hts. Fri; a1 No.1 3 Marion Sa!. 12. Washington Catholic (12-0) vs Shoals Fri. 13. Marion (9-2) at Lafayette Jeff Fri; vs No.11 Anderson Highland Sat. . 14. Jeffersonville (11-1) at Columbus East F11; vs Scottsburg Sat. 15. Southport (9-3) vs Warren Central Fri; at  
Men's Top 25  NCAA Scores  3-Point goals--Miami 4-6 (Rice 2-2, Burton 1-1, Sundvold 1-2, Colea 0-1), Cleveland 1-5 (James 1­3, Paddio 0-1, Kerr 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds--Miami 49 (Burton 10), Cleveland 58 (Daugherty 14). Assists--Miami 27 (Coles 7), Cleveland 39 (Nance 8). Total fouls--Miami 26, Cleveland 20. Technicals-Douglas. Flagrant fouls-Burton. A-11,766.  Perry Meridian Sal. 16. Vincennes (10-2) at Terra Haute North Fri. 17. Muncie South (12·0) vs No.5 Muncie Central Fri; vs Conn91'sville Sat. 18. Andrean (9-3) vs Gary Wallace Fri.  
How the Associated Preas' Top 25 teams fared Wednesday: 1. UNLV (1 1 -0) did not play. Next: at UC Irvine, Thursday.  EAST American U. 87, William & Mary 70 Army 64. Lafayene 57 Boston U. 69, N-H8ll1>8hire 63 Duquesne 60, Temple 59, OT  MINNESOTA (93) Corbin 11-24 0-0 22, Mitchell9-13 2-3 20, Spencer 2-3 2-4 6, Cafr4lbell2-15 0-0 4, Richardson &-15 2-4 12, Glass 7-14 0-0 14, Brooks 1-6 0-0 3, Coffey 2-2 0-0 4, Breuer 4-0 0-2 B. W9St 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 43-100 6-13 93. NEW YORK (89)  19. Brownsburg (11-1) at Lawrence Central Fri; vs Tri-West Sal 20. White River Valley (13-0) at Paoli Sat.  
2. Arkansas (16-1) did not play. Next: vs. South91'n Methodis~ Saturday. 3. Indiana (1!>-1) did not play. Next: at No. 24 owa, Saturday.  Fordham 85, Lehigh 71 Northeastern 98, Drexel 90 Richmond 83, Navy 82 Siena 54, Hartford 51  Oakley 6-9 2-3 14, Vandeweghe 8-16 5-8 26. Ewing 7-19 3-4 17, Cheek& 4-9 0-0 8, G.Wilkins 3-10 1-1 7, Jackson 3-8 1-2 7, Mustaf 1-2 2-3 4, Starks 2-4 0-0 4, Walker 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 35-79 14-23 89. Minn96ota 28 21 16 28--93 NewYorl< 27 28 18 16--89  Women's Top 25  
4. Ohio State (14-0) did not play. Next: vs.  St. Joseph's 87, Penn 79  3-Point goals-Minn9Sota 1-5 (Brooks 1-4, Richardson 0-1), New York 5-10 (Vandeweghe 5-8,  
Illinois, Saturday.  Syracuse 81, Connecticut 79, OT  G. Wilkins 0-2). Fouled out-Oakley. Rebounds-Minnesota 61 (Corbin 12), New York 56 (Oakley  
5. North Carolina (13-1) vs. North Carolina State poslpOned war. Next: at No. 12 Duke, Saturday. 6. Arizona (t3-2) did not play. Next: at Arizona  Towson St. 75, Rider 71 SOUTH Butler 71, Jacksonville 58  19). Assists-Minn9Sota 30 (Richardson 16), N-York 21 (Cheeks 5). Total fouls-Minnesota 22. New York 14. Technical--Minnesota illegal defense. A-14,345.  How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams fared for Wednesday: 1. Virginia (15-1) beat Maryland 76-59. 2. Tennessoo (14-2) beat Florida 71-70.  
Stale, Thursday. 7. UCLA (13-2) VI. Stanlord. Next: vs. Calnornia. Sunday.  Clemson 103, W. Carolina 82 Duke 83, Citadel 50 Georgia 81, Mississippi St. 73  Australian Open Results  3. Penn State (11-1) did not play. 4. North Carolina State (13-2) did not play. 5. UNLV (14-1) lost to No. 19 Texas 89-67.  
8. Syracuse (1!>-2) beat No. 13 Connecticut 81­ Kentucky 95, Mississippi 85  6. Rutgers (12-0) did not play.  
79, OT. Next: vs. No. 25 Seton Hall, Saturday. 9. Kentucky (13-2) beat Mississippi 95-85. Next:  N. Carolina St. at North Carolina. ppd.. war South Carolina 83, Virginia Tech 67  How the seeded players fared Wedn86day at the S4 million Australian Open championships:  7. Georgia (14-2) beat DePaul 90-67. 8. Purdue ( 12-1) vs. Indiana.  
-­ vs. VanderbiM, Saturday. 10. StJohn's (12-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 16 Pittsburgh, Saturday. 11. Oklahoma (13-3) did not play. Next: vs. Oklahoma State. Saturday. 12. Duke (14-3) beal Citadel83-50. Next: vs. No. 5 North Carolina, Saturday. 13. Conn9Ciicut (12-3) lost to No.8 Syracuse 81­ Southern U. 116, Chicago St. 99 T ennesS98 70, Florida 67 Vanderbih 80, Auburn 59 Virginia 76, Maryland 62 MIDWEST Bowling Gr99n 87, Wright St. 74 Detroit 62, N. Iowa 53  Men Second Round Boris Becker (2), Germany, del. Marian Vajda, Czechoslovakia, 6-4, 6-1, 6-3. Jonas B.Svensson (8), Sweden, del. Francisco Claval. Spain, 6-2,7-5.3-6.6-1. Guy Fotget (10), France. del. Alexander Mronz, Germany, 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-2. Jay Berger (12), Weaton. Fla., del. Todd Wrtllken, Carmel, Ind., 6-1.6-3.6-0. Darren Cahill, Australia. del. Andrei Cherkaaov (14), Soviet Union, 4-6, 2-6, 6-3, 7-5, 7-5.  9. Stanford (10-3) did not play. 10. Auburn (12-3) did not play. 11. LSU (12-2) did not play. 12. Arkansas (14-2) beat Texas Christian 9!>-62. 13. Washington (11·2) did not play. 14. Mississwi (12-2) beat Prairie v-_ 87--42. 15. NorthW98tern (9-3) did not play. 16. Western Kentucky (14-1) beat Vanderbilt 80­ 
~­ 79, OT. Next: vs. Providence, Saturday. 14. Virginia (11-3) beat Maryland 76-62. Next: at Georgia Tech, Saturday. 15. East Tenn98S98 State (13-1) did not play. Next: at Weatem Carolina. Saturday. 16. Pinsburgh (14-3) did not play. Next: at No. 10 St. John's, Salurday. 17. Nebraska ( 18-1) did not play. Next: at Colorado, Tueaday, Jan. 22. 18. Southern Mississippi (8-1) did not play. Next: vs. Tulane, Thursday. 19. Georgetown (10-4) did not play. Next: at  E. Michigan 63, Cent. Michigan 61 Kansas 73, Miami, Fla. 60 Miami, Ohio 80, Ball St. 51 Ohio U. 74, Toledo 55 W. Michigan 67, Kent St. 56 SOUTHWEST Rice 70, Texas Tech 58 Southam Math. 80, Baylor 63 FAR WEST Gonzaga 82, Portland 78, OT  Women Sing lee Second Round Steffi Graf (1), Germany, del. Maya Kidowaki, Japan, 8-1, 6-0. Gabriela Sabatini (4), Argentina, del. Maria Ekatrand, Sweden, 6-1.6-1. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (6), Spain, del. Monique JaV91', Britain, 4-6, 6--4, 6-2. Zina Garrison (8), Houston, del. Nana Miyagi, Japan, 2-6, 6-0, 6-2. Jana Novotna (10), Czechoslovakia, del. Karine Quentrec, France, 6-2, 6-2. Rachel McQuillan, Australia, del. Barbera Paulus (12), Austria, 6-4, 6-7 (7-9), 6-4. Amy Frazier (13), Rocheater Hilla. Mich., del. Andrea Leand, Barto, Md.. 6-3, 6-Q. Elizabeth Smylie, Australia, del. Laura Gildemeister (15), Peru, 6-3, 2-6. 9-7.  78. 17. Clemson (10--4) lost to South Carolina 75-62. 1 8. Conn9Ciicut ( 13-2) did not play. 19. Texas (10-5) beat No.5 UNLV 89-67. 20. Iowa (7-5) did not play. 21. Providence (13-2) did not play. 22. Notre Dame (10-3) did not play. 23. Louisiana Tech (8--4) did not play. 24. Oklahoma State (1 3-2) at Nebraska. 25. Long Beach State (6-5) did not play.  
Boston College, Saturday.  Nevada 75, Boise St. 72, OT  
20. LSU (1 1 -3) did not play. Next: vs. Mississippi,  Pepperdine 91, Loyola Marymount 79  
Saturday.  Stanford 89, UCLA 82  
- 21. New Mexico State (12-1) did not play. Next: a1 F ullarton Stale, Saturday.  
22. South Carolina (13-3) beat Virginia Tech 83­ 
67. Next: vs. Florida State, Salurday.  
23. Utah (1 !>-1) did not play. Next: at Wyoming,  
Thursday.  
24. Iowa ( 13-3) did not play. Next: at Wisconsin,  
Thursday.  
25. Seton Hall (11-3) did not play. Next: a1 No.8  
Syracuse, Saturday.  


Thursday, January 17, 1990 
Hardaway's 37 leads Golden State to victory at Boston 
BOSTON (AP) Tim Hardaway's career-high 37 points and an inbounds vio­lation by Boston's Kevin (;amble gave the Golden State Warriors a 110-105 victory Wednesday night that ended the Celtics' 18-game home winning streak. 
Mitch Richmond had 26 points and Chris Mullin 16 for Golden State, which has won its last two games at Boston Garden after losing 11 in a row. Boston is 19-2 at hom1~. 
The Celties, playing their fifth straight game without the injured Larry Bird, were led by Gamble with 26 points and Knvin McHale with 22. Boston is 3-2 since Bird was sidelined with baek probl11ms. 
Tyrone Hill's free throw gave Golden State a 107-105 lead with 32 seconds left. After a Boston timeout, the Celtics lost th11 ball with 16.7 seconds rema1n1ng when Gamble eouldn 't inbound it within live seconds. 
Cavaliers 108, Heat 94 

HICIIFIELD, Ohio (API Brad Daugherty took advantage of Miami's outmanned frontcourt and scored 22 points as Cleveland ended an 11-game losing streak. 
The Heat, losing for the sixth 

Kipper re-signs with Pirates for 1991 
NEW YOHK (API -Pitcher Bob Kipper of Pittsburgh and outfielder Darrin Jackson of San Diego agreed Wednesday to one-ytmr contraets, leaving 157 players left in salary arbitration. 
Kipper, who made $525,000 in 1990 after winning his case, agreed to $825,000. He can earn $100,000 more in perfor­manct1 bonuses. Last year, Kipper wnnt 5-2 with a 3.02 
NoWay To TakeYour 
LSAT. 
I 
J 

If you've set your stghts on law school. there's no better LSAT prcparauonthan Stanley H Kaplan 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising srraregies and techntques We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasonmg to Readtng Comprehenston 
Our classes are ltve-and ltvely And you can revtcw lessons, and get additional help as needed tn our TEST ·N·TAPE" lab. open days, cvemngs and weekends for your convemence. 
Vtsll our Center today and see for yourself 
And watch the scales ttp in your favor 
& STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
~Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. SOOTH B£N> AV£. 
SOOTH El£M>, IN 466J7 
219/272-41J5 
2/9/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 1 /21 /91. 
EHA in 41 games, all but one in relief. 
Jackson and the Padres settled at $260,000, a raise of $115,000. lie hit .257 last season with three homers and nine RBis in 113 at-bats. 
Players and clubs are scheduled to exchange ar­bitration figures on Friday. Hearings will be held in the first three weeks of February. 
time in eight games, is without center Hony Seikaly, out since late December with a sprained knee. His replacement, rookie Alec Kessler, was unable to handle Daugherty, who scored 13 points to help the Cavs take a 58-39 halftime lead. 
Craig Ehlo scored 16 points and Larry Nance 14 for Cleveland, which won for just the third time in 21 games since losing point guard Mark Price to a season-ending knee injury Nov. 30. The Cavs also ended a live-game home losing streak. 
Willie Burton led Miami with 19 points, including 12 during a meaningless fourth quarter. Glen Rice finished with 14. 
Timberwolves 93, Knicks 89 
NEW YORK (AP) -Sam Mitchell scored 12 of his 20 points in the fourth quarter and Minnesota won its third straight road game. 
The expansion Timber­wolves, who had never before won consecutive road games until they beat Orlando and Miami last week, handed the Knicks their 12th loss in 20 home games, matching their number of defeats at Madison Square Garden last season. 

AP Photo 

New Jersey rallied from a two-goal deficit to salvage a tie with Norris Division leader Chicago 2-2 last night. In other NHL action, Buffalo defeated Detroit 5-3 and Hartford knocked off Los Angeles 4-3. 
Virginia knocks off upset-minded Terrapins 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. (AP) ­Bryant Stith scored 16 points, including six in a pivotal 18-6 run at the beginning of the second half, and No. 14 Virginia overcame a sluggish start to beat Maryland 76-62 on Wednesday night in an Atlantic Coast Conference game. 
Virginia (11-3, 3-1) trailed by five in the first half and needed a 9-4 run to take a five-point halftime lead against Maryland, playing its first game without injured injured guard Walt Williams. 
The Terrapins (8-7, 1-4) scored only 28 points in the second half -nine in the first 12 minutes. Matt Roe scored 16 for Maryland and Cedric Lewis had 14. 

is currently accepting applications for the paid positions of 
Asst. Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit an outline of your class schedule and a one-page personal statement to Michelle Dall at The Observer by 5 p.m., Tuesday, Jan. 22. 
is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
AP Courier 
Applicants must be have access to a car. If you are interested, contact John O'Brien at 239-5303 or stop by The Observer office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
Virginia dominated the second half from the outset, holding Maryland scoreless for nearly four minutes while upping its lead to 45-34. After a basket by the Terrapins' Kevin McLinton, Turner and Stith scored to make it 49-36. 
Moments later, Stith made a jumper and a follow shot and Matt Blundin hit a layup to make it 57-40 with 11:31 left, and Maryland never got closer than 12 the rest of the way. 
No. 9 Kentucky 95, 
Mississippi 85 

OXFORD, Miss. (AP) -John Pelphrey scored a career-high 29 points Wednesday night to lead No. 9 Kentucky to a 95-85 Southeastern Conference victory over Mississippi. 
Pelphrey was 8-for-16 from the field, including 6-for-9 from 3-point range, as Kentucky (13-2, 5-0) remained the only unde­feated team in conference play. 
The Wildcats, however, are on probation and cannot win the title. 
Kentucky led 49-35 at halftime and turned it into a 63-47 lead with 11:41 remaining. The Hebels (6-8, 0-5) then went on a 9-2 run to cut the lead under 10 for the first time in the second half. But Mississippi could never get closer than eight points. 
MSU 
continued from page 16 
I am extremely disappointed in us because we have wrestled so well in practice. We looked like a different team in this meet tonight." 
In action over break, the Irish defeated Ohio University, 23­13, but fell to 11th-ranked Ohio State, 27-6, and dropped to 23rd-ranked Syracuse, 21-16. 
"I thought that we wrestled pretty well during break, after having a month off," said McCann. "We did not look good against Ohio University, but we won. Against Ohio State, we wrestled better, but we lost five matches by one point each, so they beat us. We just didn't win the close ones, mainly because they were mentally tougher than us. I thought that we fought well and were not intim­idated. 
"Against Syracuse, we didn't win the close matches, either. We won four and tied one, but the four matehes we lost were all by one point. If we won those, we would have won the meet. I don't know if we have a confidence problem or what, but it is getting frustrating." 
The Irish are next in action Tuesday night at Purdue at 7:30p.m. 


r------------~~---~~---~--­
.... 
The Observer 

page 14 Thursday, January 17, 1990 
Irish out of the paint on the {Marquette) as a team with
Ellis 

other end. The 7-1 Mcilvaine is good three-point shooters." continued from page 16 not known for his scoring abil­
ity, but has blocked six shots in Ellery will replace Ellis at When Singleton was out he be­a game on two occasions al­power forward and 6-11 junior came like a second guard, ready this season. Senior guard Keith Tower will start at center. 
Mark Anglavar will be countedwhile now with LaPhonso out on to score from long range; he
we will post him up inside." Phelps is especially pleased
is 31 for 62 from beyond the
The Irish will play their first with the play of Singleton since 
three-point line this season.
game without Ellis tonight at 8 the Irish captain returned three 
p.m. against Marquette at the games ago from his back injury. Joyce ACC. The Warriors have The Irish will counter with lost six straight games and are Singleton and junior Elmer "He does three things for us now 4-8 on the season. Bennett (13.7 ppg) in the back­which make us a different 
court and junior Daimon Sweet team," Phelps said. "When we 
Marquette will try to work (15. 3 ppg) at small forward. press he is very, very intimidat­the ball inside to 6-6 senior ing because of his quickness forward Trevor Powell, who is "They are obviously a very and his speed. He also does a now eighth on Marquette's all­unpredictable team," Phelps great job of pressuring and in­time scoring chart. For the said of the Warriors. "We ex­timidating the ball in halfcourt season Powell leads the pect them to play as hard and defense whether we are in a Warriors with 14.3 points and as well as they've played all zone or a man-to-man. The 
8.6 rebounds per game. 6-8 year. I think Marquette has third thing he does offensively sophomore fc:::-ward Ron Curry some pretty good people; they is in two parts. Any timi;J we very hard training without 
face pressure he gets through Swim much racing, our racing skills
will also be counted on to score make things happen. I like in the paint. Powell and what he does. Key the pressure full court. get a little bit rusty. 
continued from page 16
has been playing very well for Obviously that leads to the sec­
"As expected the Big 10
Freshman center Jim them and with Anglavar able to ond part of it, where he is able clocked in at 2:06.18 in the schools have more power andMcilvaine will try to keep the shoot threes, we always find to create and dish it off." 
200-yard butterfly. depth than we do, but we've "The last time we raced them also clearly improved and we'll was 5 years :tgo {Welsh's first keep working at it. The race for
Judge refuses to hear suit over WBC title 
year as Irish swim coach). first was usually controlled by Swimming Minnesota was a the the Big 10, but the race for 
NEWARK, N.J. {AP) -A sanctioned a bout set for April Holyfield's WBC belt is taken good measure of our program. second was usually close," said federal judge refused to 19 in Atlantic City against away. Even though the score was lop­Welsh. consider a lawsuit over the former champ George sided {92-21) the races were
Penagaricano, who noted that
World Boxing Council Foreman. closer," said Welsh. "This meet measures the im­
the WBC had supported
heavyweight title Wednesday The Irish men also fell to the mediate effects of the training
Tyson had originally opposed arbitration all along, accused
and bumped the case back to Buckeyes, 154-80. The 400 camp. With a little more time
arbitration, but Penagaricano Holyfield of trying to delay a 
state court, where a judge has freestyle relay team of David and rest, we'll discover the long 
said Tyson changed his stance decision on the case by
already ordered arbitration. Nathe, Chuck Smith, Greg term effects as we go through
and filed papers Monday saying bringing it to court. 
WBC attorney Gabriel Cornick and Jim Birmingham the rest of the season. Overall,
he would abide by an arbi­
Penagaricano said the council won the only event for the this is the best both the men
trator's ruling. "My feeling is they were
would seek speedy arbitration Irish. However, diver Sean and women have raced coming
trying to filibuster so there
of its effort to strip heavyweight Hyer and swimmers Nathe, out of training camp," said
"We are pressing vigorously would be no decision until after 
champion Evander Holyfield of Birmingham, Ed Broderick, Welsh.
with the American Arbitration the Holyfield-Foreman fight," 
his title for not fighting former John Godfrey, and Cornick
Association for a very early he said. 
champ Mike Tyson. scored eight second places. 
date," Penagaricano said. HeTyson and the WBC contend said he hoped to get a ruling Holyfield's lawyer, Patrick "These meets were both very The Irish men and womenHolyfield's first defense of his before Tyson's March 18 bout English of Clifton, and Tyson's big challenges for the slightly will face Northern Illinoistitle should be against Tyson, against Donovan "Razor" attorney, Vincent Fuller of road weary Irish," commented Friday afternoon at Rolfsbut boxing's two other major Ruddock in Las Vegas, which Washington, did not im­Welsh. "After two weeks of Aquatic Center. 
ranking organizations have 
would become the title fight if mediately return phone calls. 
~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I ~ AUDITIONS FOR~~)?:]£~@~~ I ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ Notre Dame and Saint Mary's singing and dancing ensemble ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ We need: -singer/dancers ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ -a drummer ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ -audio technician (no experience required) ~ 
I ~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
I 
~ Vocal/dance auditions will be held Sunday, January 20th ~ in the afternoon. No preparation is necessary. ~ 
~ ~ ~ 

-Sign up for an audition at 140 Fisher Hall ~ 
-Questions, call Jamie: X 3490 I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Muscat native 62Cowl 33 Earthquake site 63Certain
1 Speak in 1790 refugees

Thursday imperfectly 
34Smell­66 Suffix with 

sLewis's"­
7:30 pm. Opening Reception, "Jane Fisher, Paintings" (suspect) beaver
Timberlane"
Hoom 200, Isis Gallery, Riley Hall of Art and Design. 36 Prefix for lingual 67 Start
9Compact
Sponsored by Department of Art, Art History and Design. 40 Possible cen­68 Gardener's
13 Fragrance sus conclusion nemesis 
14 Andean beast 
43 Maudlin 69Zeno's 

16 Biblical twin classroom
44 Yesterday, in 17 Of certain Milano 70 Cosby's TV son wage-earning 
45 Place for a beret 71 Poverty 

workers 
46 Variety of 
MENUS 

19 Encircle 
chalcedony 
DOWN
20 Large 
48-words 

properties (retract) 
1 Neiman's ploy Notre Dame Saint Mary's 21 Make a gift so Egyptian cobra 2 Run a car in 23 Ordinal suffix 53 Thane's neutral 
Moroccan Chicken 24 Love, in Lugo negations 3 Five-centime BBQ Chicken Pita Pizza 26 Walter Johnson 55Gunga-pieces Grilled Sole Calico Skillet was one 56 Disharmony 4 12-year-olds, 
e.g.

Pasta Bar Deli Bar 27 Man from Bonn, 58 Do a Monday 
to Luigi chore 5 British equivalent of 17 Across 
6 Everybody, in 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Dusseldorf 

7 Pop music of Latin American origin 29Arp's art 47 Sly role 59 Fits to­
8 Wee, to Burns 30 False gold 49 Antler end eo Weapon for an

ttml•• 10 9 Set of three Thai, for one 32 Extremely Olympic50 A Wimbledon 
conventional contestant
champ's family -':+=+:':-F--,:;:: 11 Devilfish 35 Impersonate 61 U. Grant's51 Patton portrayer 
~::-+-;;,~t-,;,--1 12 Seattle's-37 Legal claim opponentSound 38 Kind of bag or 52 Atget product 
64 Canadian prov. 

15 Zeal box 
54 Cut prices 65 Roush of 
39Model-de 

57 Inkling baseball fame 
members Ia Fressange 22 Pan attachment 41 "­
r.::-+.:::-1-'::-'-f.:::-+-=-i 25 Fully grown Daughter," 
~m~m~~~m~~J~rrrr~ 18 Clowder 
Answers to any three clues in this -:+.:+.::::-t:-E-1 27 Race-track 1970 film puzzle are available by touch-tone habitue 42 Approach, as a phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each ...;;....,..;.-'-'-'---'~ 28 Lake in Ireland disclosure minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


In sudden disgust, the three lionesses realized they had killed a tofudebeest-one of the Serengeti's obnoxious health antelopes. 
Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
Name 
The Observer 
Address
P.O.Box Q 

City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, January 17, 1990 
Hoop squads decimated by ineligibilities 
Ellis fails to make the grade Haysbert's loss will 
be felt most by team 
for second straight season 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 

By KEN TYSIAC going to look at adversity in a Associate Sports Editor positive frame of mind like 
The Notre Dame women's
we've done all year. We're go­basketball team will have to do
It's official. ing to stay positive with these more with less for the remain­Notre Dame scoring and re­kids." 
der of the season after four ofbounding leader LaPhonso Ellis The Irish coach also empha­the squad's members were de­was declared academically sized that Ellis did not fail any clared academically ineligibleineligible for the rest of the of his classes, but that he on Wednesday.
1990-91 basketball season merely did not meet the 2.0 
The 22nd-ranked Irish (10-3)
yesterday. grade-point average which is 
will compete with only nine
Irish coach Digger Phelps an­required for all student-ath­players for the rest of the year.
nounced that although Ellis, an letes at Notre Dame. 
Starter Comalita Haysbert, asaccounting major, did not fail "LaPhonso did not flunk any­well as reserves Deb Fitzgerald, any of his classes last semester, thing," Phelps said. "LaPhonso 
Majenica Rupe and Tootie
he nonetheless did not achieve is on target in the College of Jones, failed to attain the min­a high enough grade-point Business in accounting as far imum 2.0 grade-point averageaverage to remain eligible to as where he should be with his Notre Dame requires for varsity play basketball for the rest of cumulative grade-point average athletes to compete.
the spring semester. as well as where he is with his Irish head coach Muffet Mc­
This is the second time Ellis units. He is still in a position Graw said she was "shocked"has missed a semester because where he could graduate a year that so many members of theof poor grades. He was forced from this May. He will no team were declared ineligible,to sit out the first seven games longer be able to play. He will but feels that the Irish will beof last season, but then re­be able to practice, and he will able to overcome the loss ofturned to average 14.0 points be a part of the team." 
players. The fourth-year coachand 12.6 rebounds per game. While trying to remain posi­said she will look to the fresh­
Ellis, a 6-9 junior forward, tive, Phelps admitted that the men to pick up the slack on theled the Irish for the first 15 loss of Ellis will hurt the Irish, smaller team. 
games of this season, averaging who are now 6-9 after winning "The freshmen are very good16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds their last two games. There will and haven't got much playing
per game. The loss of Ellis be much more pressure on 
time," said McGraw. "Now's
presents Notre Dame, which younger players like Jon and their chance to contribute off
has weathered the loss of Joe Ross to get the job done. 
the bench." 

Monty Williams to a career­"It will be a huge loss for us. I Notre Dame faced a similarending heart disorder and a think now other guys will have problem last year when injuries back injury which kept senior to do more themselves and not and an ineligibility cut the teamcaptain Tim Singleton out of the wait for LaPhonso to do it all," to eight, and then, seven play-lineup for six games, with yet Phelps said. "It's obvious now 
another hurdle to overcome. that the Ross twins have to be­see WOMEN I page 11
Phelps is trying to remain come a factor and Kevin Ellery positive with his team despite has to become a factor. Kevin this latest setback. has been our utility player. 
ND gives meet away to Spartans, 22-14
"Adversity brings out the best in people," Phelps said. "We're By DAVE DIETEMAN Notre Dame head coach Fran after two periods. Thacktay,
see ELLIS I page 14 
Sports Writer McCann. "There is no way that however, surged past Jensen in­they should have beaten us. We the third period to register a 
The Notre Dame wrestling have the talent, but in some major decision, 13-5. team, after going 1-2 over the other areas we are lacking. We Gowens's pin in the next Christmas break, returned to need the will to win, and that match put the Irish on top of action at the J.A.C.C. last night can only come from within. If the dual meet 6-4. but Notre in a disappointing 22-14 loss to we are going to get beat, by Dame rode a slippery slide to Michigan State. God we should wrestle hard -defeat from then on. 
Marcus Gowens, 12th-ranked especially if we are wrestling at "I was extremely disap­in the country at 126 pounds, home. pointed with our upper scored six of Notre Dame's 14 "Wrestling is a team sport, weights," confessed McCann. team points with a spectacular and we have to realize that. We "We have beaten better pin of Spartan Demond Betts. lost three matches that we wrestlers than the ones we lost Jamie Boyd registered a 6-3 were winning. Were it not for to tonight. We just didn't exe­victory in his 142-pound match, some errors in those matches, cute. It just doesn't look like we while Steve King notched an 8-we would have won this want to win. 5 win at 190 pounds. Freshman match." "There is just no way -no 
J.J. McGrew battled Emilio The 118 pound match -the way -that they should have Collins of Michigan State to a first of the evening -may have beaten us. They did beat us be­draw at 177 pounds for Notre been a bad omen for the Blue cause they wanted it more and Dame's only other team points and Gold. In the first match, they out-toughed us. I give of the night. Soo Thacktay of Michigan State them all the credit in the world. 
"Tonight was a complete and Chris Jensen of Notre giveaway," said a disgruntled Dame were deadlocked at 2-2 see MSU 1page 13 
Irish sunk by Big 1 0 foes over break 
By BECKY WOOD mances, especially the fresh­Welsh. Sports Writer man, noted Welsh. The Irish women fell to the However, Head Coach Tim Buckeyes, 76-37. After 
BOCA RATON -The Notre Welsh remarked that the slug­winning the first event, the 400 Dame men's and women's swim gish times in the meet reflected medley relay, the Irish only teams trained and competed some of the fatigue of hard captured two more first places over break at one of the coun­training. -Tanya Williams in the 400 try's premier outdoor swim­••• individual medley relay, 4:30.12 ming and diving facilities. COLUMBUS -The Irish re­and junior Shana Stephens in 
The Irish trained twice a day turned to South Bend January the 200 backstroke, 2:13.70. for two hours at The Mission lOth before traveling to Stephens, Shannah Mather, Bay Aquatic Center, which Columbus on January 12th in Williams and Alicia Feehery's boasts two 50-meter pools, a their first meet ever against 400 medley relay time of 25-yard pool, and a diving pool. Ohio State -one of three "Big 4:04.31 was faster than in 
On January 5th, the swim 10" meets on the Irish's sched­Notre Dame's last meet before teams also competed in the ule this semester. Notre Dame Christmas against Bowling New Year's Classic at Mission also faced Minnesota, another Green. Bay. The Irish squad faced Top 10 squad, in the tri-dual Feehery and Mather also teams from Ohio, New York and competition placed second in the 50-yard Florida. "The Ohio State women have freestyle and the 200-yard
AP Photo 
Tanya Williams, whose home been nationally ranked all sea­breaststroke, respectively. 
Fourth-seeded Gabriela Sabatini breezed into the third round of pool is Mission Bay, captured son while their men's team is Against Minnesota, the Irishthe Australian Open by defeating Maria Ekstrand 6-1 , 6-1 . Other first in the 200 backstroke, perhaps the most improved won only one event as Williamswinners included top seed Steffi Graf and no. 8 Zina Garrison and 2:07. The men's team also team in the Big 10 due to anin the men's draw, no. 2 Boris Becker and no. 12 Jay Berger. ' turned in some strong perfor-excellent freshman class," said see SWIM I page 14 









