~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 86 TUESDAY I FEBRUARY 5, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
USS Missouri shoots 16-inch guns for first time in 30 years 

I>IIAIIHAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) 
Marini~ "jump jets" hammered Iraqi tanks in the northHrn sands Monday, while out in the gulf the USS Missouri nstablishnd a new front line ­thH battleship that ended one war unlnashing its big guns to lwlp win another. 
The Iraqis warned they would fight the Americans in the desert with "the hit-and-run tactic formulated by our ances­tors." the Arab raiders of old. 
But once again the U.S. mili­tary machine relied on the weapons of tomorrow. waking up Baghdad with "smart" bombs and missiles that sent Iraqis scurrying down to base­ment slwltPrs. 
The situation on the ground at the northern front remained nssfHJtially static Monday. No nnw Iraqi probes were reported six days after Iraqi troops 
OPERATION 
DESERT STORM 
• 
'Graves Unit'/page 8 

• 
Germans refuse duty/page B 

• 
Pan Am subpeonaed/page 9 

• 
Bus attacked/page 9 

• 
Israel will cooperate with U.S./page 9 


punched into Saudi territory and were repulsed in a series of bloody clashes. 
But the U.S. command said 
Filmmaker Spike Lee talks about racism and Gulf War 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Henown111l filmmaker Spike LPP said to a crowd at Stepan Center Monday. "I think we're at a very critical point in this eountry.. .This country is mov­ing fright11ningly mor11 to the right every single day." 
Th1~ presentation, "An Evening with Spike Len," gave students and the general public a chance to learn more about the director and his work. A variety of topics were discussed, induding the Gulf War and race relations in this country. 
Lee said he opposed the war in the Persian Gulf. "This has nothing to do with maintaining frnedom in Kuwait. .. I mean Prnsidmlt Bush didn't send any­body to South Africa." 
Lee said that watching the 
• Press conference/page 3 
war on television makes it seem "like a video game." He also criticized the role of the media in recruitment for the military. "(They say) 'We'll send you to college, we'll pay three years tuition, we got computers." 
Lee also said he disliked the media's lack of coverage of mi­norities serving in the Gulf. 
"If you watch the news you would think there are no black people over there," said Lee. "I have yet to see (the networks) interview a black woman who has a boyfriend or a husband over there where reality says its almost 50 percent black and Hispanic." 
Lee said he credited his suc­cess to his strong family back­ground. He also said it is nee-



Francine Lista, holding her two-year-old son Anthony, lights a votive candle at St. Patrick's Cathedral on Sunday. 
front-line Marines did trade fire with the Iraqis across the border Monday, and Marine pi­lots reported scoring a major hit against Iraqi armor. 
Four AV-8 Harriers, the Marines' vertical-takeoff "jump jets," found and attacked 25 to 30 Iraqi tanks across the bor­der, unloading Rockeye anti­tank bombs. 
"The results, from the initial pilot reports, were 25 Iraqi tanks destroyed, or at least burning," said Marine Maj. Gen. Robert Johnston, chief of staff for Operation Desert Storm. 
Marine officers earlier re­ported that two of their Hornet fighter-bombers knocked out an Iraqi rocket site that had fired on allied positions. 
The Marines also said a bat­talion-size Marine task force 
see IRAQ I page 4 


AP Photo 
Unhappy trooper 

An Israeli child, overcome by all the attention, cries while being looked after at the Bnai Zion Medical Center in Haifa, Israel. 

Spike Lee 

essary to have a spiritual base although it may not be religious. "Everyone has to work at their own relationship with God." 
When asked about the coali­tion Students United for Re­spect, Lee said minority stu­dents need to put aside differ­ences and unify. 
Lee told about the making of his films and the controversy surrounding them. He said he was kicked off of the campus of Morehouse University while filming "School Daze." He also said he was also criticized by the black middle class who felt that he was "airing dirty laun­dry " with his portrayal of the disunity among people in the black race. 
Lee said that the Howard Beach incident gave him the idea for "Do The Right Thing." 
"I wanted to really address the racial situation not only in New York but in America as a whole and the film came out in '89 and I don't think things have changed that much," Lee said. 
Lee said that Paramount Pic­tures, who distributed the film, wanted the ending changed be­cause "there's no hope at the end of the film." He refused and consequently Universal Pictures released the film. 

When asked why Mookie, the main character in the film, threw the garbage can through the window of Sal's Pizzeria, he replied that the action ex­pressed the rage that the com­munity felt at seeing the murder of the character Radio Rahim. 
He also said defending "Do the Right Thing" wore him out, but was necessary. "I had to do something to deflect the nega­tive press we were getting that this film was going to incite ri­ots and (that) I was advocating violence." 
Lee said he also had to deal with controversy about the two quotes by Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X which the film ends with. 
see LEE I page 4 

Iranian President Rafsanjani offers to help negotiate end to Persian Gulf War 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) -Ira­nian President Hashemi Rafsan­jani offered on Monday to help negotiate an end to the Persian Gulf War -a move that reflects Tehran's growing anxiety about its role in the war and the postwar Middle East. 
Rafsanjani said he was pre­pared to meet with Iraqi Presi­dent Saddam Hussein and also to talk to U.S. officials about undisclosed proposals for peace. 
He added that "creating se­curity in the region, without se­curing Iran's views, is not pos­sible." 
Iran has remained officially neutral in the war between two of its greatest enemies -Iraq and the United States. Iran and Iraq fought a devastating war between 1980 and 1988, and Iran has had hostile relations with Washington since the Ira­nian revolution in 1979. 
But Rafsanjani's comments underlined the country's unease about war on its doorstep. 
Rafsanjani is considered a pragmatist who wants good ties with both his Arab neighbors and the West. He has sidelined radical rivals who have demanded that he join the war on Iraq's side -one Islamic country helping another. 
"If there is hope for the sal­vation of the Iraqi nation, why shouldn't I meet Saddam?" Rafsanjani said at a Tehran news conference. "Our goal is much greater than a meeting with Sad dam." 
He added that it would be "logical" to talk to Washington about a peace proposal. 
Officials in Washington were surprised by the offer and re­acted coolly to it. 
White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said he saw little hope for such talks. The United States has said it would stop fighting only when Iraq actually begins pulling out of Kuwait. 

Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said the United States could support any diplomatic effort to implement U.N. Secu­rity Council resolutions, includ­ing complete Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait and restoration of the Kuwaiti government. 
"If someone can come up with a diplomatic resolution that achieves that objective, that would be fine, but I frankly don't expect it," Cheney said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar greeted the Iranian initiative more opti­mistically, saying he was keep­ing his fingers crossed in the hope it would work. 
"I welcome such an initiative. I think Iran is in a good position to produce a formula which can put an end to the present situation," Perez de Cuellar said at U.N. headquarters in New York. 
Tuesday, February 5, 1991

page 2 The Observer 
Book teaches good 'form' for letter-writing Offensive advertise­ments are never painless, but the least an airline can do is keep any Scott Brutocao stomach-wrenching spots Asst. Sports Editor out of their glossy, ------­harmless magazines. Unfortunately, American Airlines wasn't up to that task. To take my mind off the turbulence assaulting my system on an unusually choppy flight from Chicago to Los Angeles, I turned to the soothing color pictures of American's magazine, stuffed in the chair in front of me. What I found was an insult to any person who has written a word, symbol or squiggly line. "Slash Your Letter-Writing Time by 80% ... and write better letters!" read the headline, a naturally eye-catching phrase to entice any busy writer of letters. What was it, I wondered? A new thesaurus program to attach to a computer? A self-help audio tape containing expressionless voices telling you what letter-readers like to peruse? No, it was an atrocity called the Executive's Business Letter Book. The small writing reads: "You'll find useful letters on every common business subject. Over 150 letters in all-plus countless variations when you use the optional paragraphs" (emphasis in original). Optional paragraphs! You mean when we buy this book of standard letters we can pick and choose from the paragraphs provided? Imagine that! A bargain! What are these people thinking? The ad­vertisement claims that you save time and money when you buy these letters because they're legally safe, they prevent screw-ups, they increase productivity because of time saved, and they "cut stress." The cost? $69.95. (I don't know about you, but I have to be skeptical about any price that has the final digits of -$9.95.) Does K-Tel or Ginsu have anything to do with this promo? What's next? Will there be a book of per­sonal letters advertised in the next American Airlines magazine? Will I be told how to write a letter of apology, an emotional letter, a letter of sadness? How about Inside Columns? Can the Ob­server buy a book of 150 Inside Columns, covering any occasion relating to the Notre Dame campus? I wouldn't be surprised if our students believed that we had such a book, but that is another story. But if for some perverse, accidental, slothful reason you wish to buy this package for the ominous $69.95, this insult to any writer of English, I have the advertisement in my backpack. After all, the ad says the product will "let you enjoy life. We guarantee it: life will look a little brighter after you've removed a few hours from your weekly schedule!" If it does entice you, hurry. I should caution you that it soon may be running under this campus through a particular pipe reserved for more fluid items. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnctana 46556 Today's Staff: (219)-239-7471 Sports News Accent Dave McMahon Paul Pearson Michael Krause Scoreboard: Frank Rivera Frank Pastor VIewpoint SystemsProduction Jay Colucci Gil Gomez Karen Newlove Patrick BarthJeane Blasi Graphics Pat Midden The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

INSIDE COLUMN 
ll!l!:lll·lllji/JI::::·:::::!I~ 111!1lililli:ili.lili~••i•••••••••l.ilil:/:i!/:l 
FORECAST: 
Partly cloudy and mild today. Highs around the upper 40s. Partly cloudy and mild tonight. Lows around the middle 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H l Athens 43 28 Atlanta 73 44 Baghdad 51 34 Boston 64 38 Chicago 51 39 Dallas-Ft.Wor1h 59 57 

''''"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''':::· .d Denver 52 30 
J~a:,,:; . : ::::'[:'::,[:::: Ioetroit 
825s 3o
Honolulu 71 Houston 63 57 Indianapolis 62 37 London 35 30 Los Angeles 76 48 Madrid 48 34 Miami Beach 7 4 68 Moscow 16 -04 New York 68 46 Pans 28 19 

i 
Por11and, Ore. 52 48 Rryadh 72 55 Rome 46 25 62 44 :·. San Francrsco 61 50 
lliiiilllill~~ Philadelphia 
69 32 
St. LOUIS

:'::;;:;;;,;;:':':'::;;:,}i::,:;:;:;,;,;,;:;:;:::::::::; South Bend 5 1 4 o 
~)'fi\Ui~i Tokyo 52 37 Washington.D.C. 70 37 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Historic cathedral to receive facelift 
•PARIS (AP) -Old age, pollution and the elements have caught up with Notre Dame, the noble Gothic cathedral often called "the parish of French history." The ministry has allocated about $19 million for an ambitious 10-year facelift scheduled to begin this summer. "The monument's general condition is worrisome, and if we don't do something now, we'll end up with a very sick building," said Bernard Fonquernie, chief architect in the Culture Ministry's historical monuments division. Notre Dame was begun in 1163 under King Louis VII and not finished until nearly 200 years later. 
IRA uses civilian for suicide bombing 
•BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -The Irish Republican Army said Monday that it forced a civilian to drive a van packed with explosives 
into an army base, where the explosion injured several people. Gunmen forced Tommy Wallace, a building company employee, to drive the van to the Ulster Defense Regiment base at Magherafelt, 30 miles west of Belfast. Wallace's wife, Heather, was held hostage, with a 


hood over her head, while he drove to the base. Wallace shouted a warning as he jumped out of the van, and the bomb exploded two minutes later, police said. 
NATIONAL 

Six bombs found at chemical plant 
•NORFOLK, Va. (AP) -Six pipe bombs found fastened to two chemical tanks near the world's largest naval base were safely disarmed or detonated Monday, 
OF INTEREST 

military officials said. A one-square-mile area was evacuated after the first two bombs, attached to a tank containing highly flammable methanol, were discovered. The other four bombs were attached to a tank containing a less dangerous chemical. The tanks are at Allied Terminals Inc. on the Elizabeth River. The site is about 10 miles from the sprawling Norfolk Naval Base, which has sent about 35,000 sailors to the Persian Gulf, and five miles from the Navy's Craney Island fuel depot. No one immediately claims responsibility for the bombs. Base security has been tightened in the wake of Iraqi threats to commit terrorism because of the war in the Middle East. 
INDIANA 

ISU student charPred with murder 
•TERRE HAUTE,nd. (AP) -An Indiana State University student from Indianapolis faces a charge of murder in the weekend shooting death of a fellow stu­dent working as a bartender. The slaying early Sunday was the second violent death for a student at the Terre Haute campus in as many days. One died Saturday from injuries he received when struck by driven by an allegedly drunken student. Brian Hogue, 23, a senior communications major from Mooresville, was shot once in the chest Sunday morning shortly after midnight and was pronounced dead at Union Hospital, police said Mark Nicholson, 21, a sophomore, was being held Monday on a preliminary charge of murder, authorities said. Hogue was a bartender at the Ballyhoo Pizza King & Tavern, a popular hangout for students just off the campus. Hogue and bouncers went outside to quiet a disturbance after a woman said a man identified as Michael Boswell, 19, of Greenwood had taken her purse, a Terre Haute police detective, Sgt. Scott Seliger, said. 
•CHRISTIAN 
APPALACHIA PROJECT •LE CERCLE FRANCAIS, the ND/SMC French interviews will be held today and tomorrow at the library Club, will hold a brief organizational meeting tonight at 7 concourse from 10 a.m. to noon and at the Center for p.m. in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy. For information, call Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. Darrin at 283-2106 or Shannon at 284-4332. 

•THE 
RECYCLIN' IRISH will hold an orga­•THE STUDENT BODY president/vice president nizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for debate will be held Wednesday at 7 p.m., in the Notre Social Concerns. Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 4, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
246.67 Million 187.59 il" 1.57 S&P COMPOSITE A 343.93 1T 3.02 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2,736.39 • 23.27 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD .f $0.30 to $ 365.80oz. SILVER • 2.5¢ to$ 3.830/oz. 

• 
In 1783: Sweden recognized the independence of the United States. 

• 
In 1917: Congress passed, over President Wilson's veto, an immigration act sharply curtailing the influx of Asians. 

• 
In 1973: Funeral services were held at Arlington National Cemetery for Army Lt. Col. William B. Nolde, the last American soldier killed before the Vietnam cease-fire. 

• 
In 1983: Former Nazi Gestapo official Klaus Barbie, ex­pelled from Bolivia, was brought to Lyon., France, to stand trial for alleged war crimes. (He was convicted in 1987 and sen­tenced to lite in prison.) 

• 
One year ago: Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev told the Communist Party it had to give up its unchallenged right to rule and earn that right instead. 


------~---­
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Spike Lee discusses racial problems at press conference 
By KELLEY TUTHILL News Editor 
While filmmaker Spike Lee resents the fact that the media has labeled him an expert on racial issues, he addressed many concerns facing blacks in America at a press conference Monday. 
"The media picks who they feel should be a spokesperson for black people," Lee said. "This is not something I wel­come. and it's not something .I want." 
NonethElless, Lee spoke about everything from racism on col­lege campuses to the contro­versy surrounding his films. 
An issue of concern for Lee is the treatment of blacks in the Gulf War. Audiences watching the news would have no idea that there are any blacks fight­ing in the Gulf, said Lee, be­cause of the lack of coverage the networks have given to black soldiers and their fami­lies. 
"Any war that the United States has, we're (blacks) the first there," Lee said. "We'll go in, fight for our country and come home and still be treated like second class citizens," Lee said. 
Lee also addressed concerns that black students have at predominantly white schools in America. 
He said that black students at predominantly white schools must unify to make changes. "Black students never unify... I think if they all got together, along with Hispanics and Native Americans, they could do something." 
He said that life can be espe­cially difficult for black students at a school like Notre Dame, where 3. 7 percent of the student body is black. At Notre Dame that figure is even lower 
ND, Warsaw University to create book on U.S. history 
Special to The Observer 
In a ceremony Monday at the Polish embassy in Washington, D.C., tho University of Notre Dame and Warsaw University in Poland formalized an agree­ment to cooperate on the re­search and publication of the first comprehensive history of the United States written for an Eastern European audience. 
The agreement to support the Polish-American History Pro­ject, culminating in a five-vol­ume Polish language history of the United States, was signed by Timothy O'Meara, Notre Damfl provost, and Wlodzimierz Siwinski, prorector of Warsaw University, and witnessed by Kasimierz Dziewanowski, Polish ambassador to the United States. 
Collaborating in the project, 
NOTI~E DAME COMPUTER STORE 

Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00-5:00 
when you factor out the ath­letes, he said. 
"They're (athletes) not really considered black per se, be­cause if you're a big football player at Notre Dame ... you're not black . . . you!re Irish," Lee said. "If you're not an athlete, you're a nigger." 
He explained that there is a phenomenon where if you are a black entertainer or athlete, whites are more accepting of you, in general. 
"I'm glad I went to More­house," said Lee. "There's so much that you get at a predom­inantly black college." He said that many successful blacks went to mostly QJack schools. 
Addressing the issue of a ra­cial harassment policy at Notre Dame, Lee told the audience that while he realizes that is­sues like this can be "sticky" with respect to the First Amendment, he thinks profes­sors who make racial comments should be fired. 
After visiting many college campuses, Lee has discovered that "colleges are not really ex­empt from what's happening in society as a whole" in regard to racial tensions. 
His advice to blacks is that they need to become en­trepreneur and start their own businesses. ''I'm not saying it's easy, but it can be done." 
He spoke briefly about his next film "Jungle Fever," which will be. released in June and tackles the issue of mixed racial relationships. 
Lee is also working on a film about Malcolm X. "We want to tell the truth as best we can," Lee said. He explained that there are many myths about Malcolm X's life and assassina­tion. 
The main result of his pi­oneering into predominantly white Hollywood is that "we got a lot of black folks work," Lee said. He also proved that there is an audience for films that deal primarily with black sub­ject matter. 

While he is proud of his five films, Lee believes that some of the criticism of his work is un­founded. 
To the charges of reverse racism, Lee says, "I think that if any intelligent person looked at my films, they would see that I'm harder on blacks than any other people." 
The overall purpose of his films has been to promote dia­logue and discussion, said Lee. " 'Do the Right Thing' has been the most successful at promot­ing dialogue." 
Although he plans to continue making films, Lee also would like to start a magazine and re­cently signed a record label deal with CBS/Sony. 
which was made possible by an $85,000 grant from the United States Information Agency, will be Indiana University and the Warsaw University American Studies Center. More than 50 scholars from both countries will take part. 
Donald Critchlow, associate professor of history at Notre Dame, will serve as the Ameri­can general editor of the his­tory, and Walter Nugent, An­drew Tackes professor of his­tory at Notre Dame, will also contribute. 
The work, intended to ac­quaint the Polish public with American history, will be printed by PWN, the Polish Academic Press, which has dis­cussed with other Eastern Eu­ropean presses the possibility of the history's publication in Hun­garian, Czech and Russian. 


Filmmaker Spike Lee speaks to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail during, "An Evening with Spike Lee," held last night at Stepan Center.The presentation gave the audience a view of the director and his opinions on various topics ranging from his films to his view on the Persian Gulf War. See story on page 1 . 
Romanelli defeats O'Brien in College Bowl final round 
By AMY MARK News Writer 
In Monday's final round of the College Bowl, the team led by captain John Romanelli de­feated Bill O'Brien's team, 455 to 75. 
"I'm happy we won it. We worked well as a team and it paid off," said Romanelli, who, along with Bob Flanagan 1!-nd Jim Harrington were part of the 1988 championship team. Romanelli and Flanagan, both of Zahm Hall, were also on the 1989 winning team. 
The other members of the team are Flanagan, Harrington, an off-campus student, Dave Soeldner and Michael Faehner, both of Dillon Hall. 
O'Brien's team included Brent Procida, C.J. Hrach and Mark Donahue, all of Grace Hall. 
The winners will next embark on a run-off with a selective "All Star" team within the next few weeks. Their individual scores will be recorded and the top five will represent Notre Dame at a regional competition at Western Illinois University in early March. 

The winners of the regional competition will go to the na­tional competition to be sched­uled at a later time. 
Sponsor and moderator Peter Lombardo claimed that this year's field of 24 teams was the largest number ever in the ND tournament. The teams are comprised of five members each. 
A new tournament will be held after the regional tourna­ment and spring break. Anyone interested in forming or joining a team should contact Lom­bardo at the Center for Contin­uing Education. 
JUNIORS 
Anyone interested in being the Chairperson of the Class of 1992's Senior Fonnal please
'liJL~ehdown. NeXT's newest and most affordable machine is here. Stop in for a hands-on demon-£. stratlon of the revolutionary NcXIstation~computer. And go where no computer has gone before. y. 

pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, rd floor LaFortune. Deadline: Feb. 6 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
Lee 
continued from page 1 
"People never read that quote, Malcolm X's quote," he said. "They see the word vio­lence in this paragraph, they look at Malcolm's face and that's all they see." 
After "Do the Right Thing," Lee decided to do a film "with music, just about relation­ships." However, when his next movie, "Mo' Better Blues," came out, Lee said he was un­fairly accused of being anti­Semitic because of his portrayal of Moe and Josh Flatbush, the Jewish nightclub owners. 
"Really, that's the last time that I'm going to go out and have to defend {a film)." Lee said. "From now on I'm just going to let the work stand by its own and if you don't agree with it or think I'm racist so be it." 


Instructing joint patrol 
A militia commander briefs army and militia officers on the proper conduct of joint patrols in Moscow Saturday. 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 

opened up with 155mm artillery fire on Iraqi ground radar and infantry positions near the Umm Gudair oil field in southwestern Kuwait, and Marine light armored vehicles exchanged cannon and small­arms fire with Iraqi troops just over the border in Kuwait. 
No U.S. casualties were re­ported in those actions. 
Late Sunday, Desert Storm airpower pounded an Iraqi convoy on the move in Kuwait, Johnston said. He said the Iraqis, in a clear attempt to re­duce the size of targets for al­lied warplanes, are using smaller convoys than before ­keeping them to five to 10 vehi­cles, instead of the previous 50­to-1 00-vehicle convoys. 
The allies' mission-a-minute air campaign focused again on Iraqi troops' dug-in positions in Kuwait. The Air Force's giant B-52 bombers staged six raids on the Republican Guard, Iraq's best troops, Johnston said. 
In the wintry chill of the front lines, Marines told a reporter they like to hear the distant thunder of the B-52s -such "preparation" will make their eventual push into Kuwait easier. But they also said they can feel sorry for the Iraqis at the receiving end. 
"They're just like us," said one lance corporal, Eric Church. "They're soldiers doing their job." 
Their job became a little tougher Sunday when the half­century-old Missouri, having steamed far up into the gulf, fired its 16-inch guns in combat for the first time since the Ko­rean War. The shelling by the giant warship, which previously launched cruise missiles against Iraqi targets, was not reported until Monday. 
Seven rounds of 2,000-pound shells -each the weight of a Toyota -were lobbed toward Iraqi command bunkers just north of the Saudi-Kuwaiti border, destroying some of them, U.S. military sources said. 

Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY  
What are the U.S. Christian Churches Saying? AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICE COMMITTEE' AMERICAN EPISCOPAL CHURCH National greatness does not rest on material power but on the For what reason has our nation unleashed the greatest military capacity to meet the needs of the people and to lead towards force since the Vietnam War? Are we not justified in suspecting justice. The United Stated must find its pride in such that the reason is primarily economic? Have we not sent our accomplishments, not in its capacity to move an army 8,000 young men and women to the Persian Gulf, as our president has miles in a few short weeks and maintain it in a hostile said, to protect the American way of life? But what way of life is environment. Today's crisis provides us with a fresh opportunity it that allows the homeless and the unemployed to huddle on to grasp the need to turnabout, to replace the politics of war with our streets and our inner cities to decay? Is it possible that the the politics of peace, to conserve God's good earth and nurture American way of life--unbridled consumption -­has become for its people. many millions a way of death, unendurable poverty? SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS What, then, are the criteria of just-war theory? 1) Just cause. As pastors, we are deeply concerned about the human War is only permissible to resist aggression and defend those consequences of the crisis-the lives already lost or damaged by victimized by it. Only defensive war is defensible. 2) Just intent. Saddam Hussein's indefensible aggression, the many more lives The only acceptable motive must be to secure justice for all which are being destroyed by war and the suffering and loss that involved. Revenge, conquest and economic benefit are inevitably come with it. Talk of "minimal" casualties insufficient,· illegitimate and unacceptable motives...6. underestimates the uncertainties of war and the grief of a parent Proportionality. Will the human cost of the armed conflict -­American or Iraqi -­who loses a child to war. War in this justify the cost of lives lost and bodies maimed? Let it be stated situation will destroy many lives, divide our nation and leave here emphatically that jobs and oil are not a sufficient or the world in a condition which none of us can predict. With our legitimate motive. Holy Father we fear "war is an adventure with no return." ********************* * Mass Schedule at Sacred Heart Church* Saturday, February 9* 5:00 pm Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. * * Sunday, February 10* 10:00 am Fr. William Simmons, C.S.C.* 11:45 am Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. ** * *  

Tuesday, February 5, 1991 The Observer page 5 

.,.., 
.,;· 


AP Photo

Happy Children 
A group of Somalian children clown for the camera Sunday afternoon at the Azraq refugee camp approx­imately 50 miles from Amman. Jordan. Several hundred refugees are still in the Azraq camp, though the flow of refugees across the Jordan-Iraq border has diminished to a trickle in recent days. 
Seniors invited to weekend of reflection 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Writer 
Notre Damn and Saint Mary's seniors havn bnen invited by The Ctmter for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry to a wnnknnd at Lake Miehigan to rPrlnct upon tlwir experience with social action and commu­nity snrviee and how it fits into thtdr lives. 
Tlw retrnat nntillnd "A Search for thn Spirit in the Life We l.iv1~" was designed by Kathy Hoynr, Father Tom McDermott and a team of snniors to com­hirw the resources of both the CSC and Campus Ministry by encouraging deep reflection upon social action. 
lloynr, who has worked with Notre Dame students in the community for the past six years, has recognized the need for integration between the students' work and their lives. Aceording to Royer, the re­treat's "specific focus is to re­flect on the place of service and soda! action and to try to figure out where it fits." 
McDermott sees the weekend as an opportunity for students "to be grateful for their bless­ings, to learn from what has been difficult and to clarify and deepen motives so that when they leave, they will be better prepared to work for the good of others." 
A leadership team consisting of ND seniors Jay Caponigro, Bill Mordan and Mary· Sue Twohy will be helping Royer and McDermott. The students have been involved in every step of preparation, conveying the unique interests of graduating seniors. 

The team first met in October of last year as part of a com­mittee of students involved with social action. As plans for the retreat developed, the team said they chose to cater to se­niors since that group could benefit most from reflection on past experiences with relation to the future. 
The retreat will take place March 1-3. Applications will be accepted at the Center for So­cial Concerns until Friday, Feb. 
8. It is sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for So­cial Concerns. 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: Managing Editor Business Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 6. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTS Manager Controller Art Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 
Lopez: good teachers know about learning 
By JOSEPH ADAMS News Writer 
Knowing about good learning is the key to good teaching, said George Lopez, associate professor of government and international studies, in a lec­ture to the Graduate Student Union (GSU). 
The lecture. "Learning to Teach: Real Skills and Helpful Tips," was sponsored by the Professional Development Workshop Committee of the GSU. Lopez said that so much 
-time is spent learning how to teach that learning is not em­phasized enough. 
Lopez' words were well-re­ceived by an unexpectedly large crowd. "Attendance was phe­nomenal," said graduate stu­dent Patrick Sain, a representa­tive of the Professional Devel­opment Workshop Committee. Sain said that he expected only 50-7 5 people to attend. He es­timated last night's crowd at 
120. So many people were in attendance that the lecture was moved from a classroom to the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The "key to learning" is the interaction between a teacher and student, according to Lopez. A teacher must know what concerns and fears a 'stu­dent brings to class. 
"A class that is warm and comfortable is more successful than the one that isn't," said Lopez. Equally important is the knowledge a student has of the teacher. This knowledge will help both teachers and students become more familiar with each other. 
Lopez also emphasized the importance of clear goals to 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, JAN. 31 
12:30 p.m. A University employee reported that her parking decal was stolen from her unlocked auto in the B-2 parking lot. 
4:30 p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported that he was being harassed by a resident of Lewis Hall. 
FRIDAY, FEB. 1 
10:55 a.m. It was reported to Notre Dame Security that the poor box in front of Sacred Heart Church was broken into. No noticeable amount of money was taken though. 
12:30 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported that his wallet was stolen from the Rockne Memorial. He had left his wallet on the floor of the basketball court with his hat and gloves. 
11:45. p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported that his wheelcovers were stolen from his car while it was parked in the D-2 parking lot. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 2 
3:15 p.m. A resident of Flanner Hall was apprehended by Notre Dame Security for soliciting T-shirts at the JACC. 

good teaching. First of all, a teacher must define one's own goals. Lopez said that some faculty members are only con­cerned with protecting their "good, true. sacred field of knowledge" from the "great unwashed." 
Others seek to "let in as many people as possible," he said, "a good university must have a mix of these kind of people. Know into which school you fit." 
An instructor also must be concerned with how individual class sessions are accomplish­ing the overall goals of the class, said Lopez. Once these goals become clear, they can be accomplished more easily and "good learning" is helped. 
Lopez told the graduate stu­dents that imaginative teaching techniques also aid learning. Students often become bored when "all (they) see for a whole semester is a talking head." 
By alternating lectures, films and discussions. students will never know what to expect and their interest will be captured, he said. 
"Good teaching must mix course design and course exe­cution," said Lopez. lie told the graduate students that they must reconcile their design for the course with the actual ca­pabilities of their students. 
He gave the example of an in­structor assigning more reading than the students could possibly "read with integrity." 
Lopez ended the lecture by telling the students that he be­lieved teaching in American so­ciety has become more of a vo­cation than a job. lie said that "too many people ... believe this is just a job." 
11:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security received a report of vandalism in the 1st floor men's bathroom of the Cushing Hall of Engineering where someone had broken both of the large mirrors. 
6:49 p.m. A visitor to the university reported that his license plate was stolen from his car while it was parked near the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
9 p.m. A resident of Breen·Phillips Hall reported seeing a suspicious man in her dorm. No suspect was located by Security. 
SUNDAY, FEB. 3 

1:26 a.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported that 156 compact discs be­longing to 5 different people were stolen from his room. 
2:39 a.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
1:12 p.m. Notre Dame Security discovered a car parked in the D-2 parking lot that had two hubcaps missing from it and a third hubcap that was laying nearby. 
2:20 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported that money was taken from his wallet which was left on the desk inside of his unlocked room. 


with Gavriil Popov Boris Notkin 
•U.S.S.R.'s 
Leading Free Market Economist •Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Moscow

•Moscow's 
First Democratically Elected Mayor 

•Anchorman of "Good Evening Moscow"

•July, 
1990, Resigned From the Communist Party • Modern Day Muckraker in the U.S.S.R. 


Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
7:00pm 
Stepan Center 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
-

~TUDE NT 
GOV~RNM~Nl 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members of the Arts &Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
----------------------------~~--~---------------­
------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 The Observer page 7 

FBI spy sentenced to 20 years in prison 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The only FBI agent ever convicted of espionage was sentenced to 20 years in prison Monday by a judge who suggested the agency should not have placed such an inept agent in control of sensi­tive documents. 
It should have been obvious that Richard Miller was highly susceptible to recruitment as a spy, said U.S. District Judge Robert Takasugi. 
"The fact is that Mr. Miller betrayed a national trust. And yet I truly wonder why the FBI allowed Mr. Miller to serve in this capacity," the judge said. 
"Mr. Miller was out of con­trol," Takasugi said. "He was totally out of control." 
AP Photo 
Takasugi imposed separate

Los Angeles firefighters. examine the wreckage, Saturday, of the nose of a USAir Boeing 737 where it 
sentences ranging from 10

slammed into a building after colliding with another plane Friday at Los Angeles International Airport. The 737 
years to 20 years on the six

was landing on a flight from the east coast when it struck a departing commuter plane on the ground. The 
counts of Miller's indictment.

preliminary death toll was put at five with 25 injured. The death toll increased to 34 Monday. 
but he ordered all of the sen­tences to run concurrently. He 
said Miller would be eligible for parole after serving one-third of the 20 years. 

Death toll from plane crash rises to 34; 
investigators re-enacting mid-air collision The sentence was far lighter 
LOS ANGELES !AP) -The dtmth toll from the runway col­lision of a USAir jetliner and a commuter plane rose to 34 Monday, and investigators tried to dntermine what was visible from thn control tower and the jt~t's cockpit. 
Three re-enactments of the collision were scheduled for later Monday by the National Transportation Safety Board, using an identical commuter plane and a helicopter in place of the USAir Boeing 737. 
The purpose was "to see what could be seen from the control tower by the controller and what could be seen by the inbound 737 ," NTSB spokesman Brent Bahler said. 
The fiery collision occurred shortly after 6 p.m. Friday, when the USAir jet from Columbus. Ohio, landed on the runway and ran over the Palm­dale, Calif.-bound Skywest plane, which was in position for takeoff. It then slammed into an abandoned lire station. 
One re-enactment was sched­uled as a daylight run-through. Two were planned for the evening with varying lighting on the commuter plane. 
In one case, the Skywest stand-in was to be illuminated according to witnesses' de­scriptions with wingtip naviga­tion lights. a rotating fuselage beacon and a tail strobe. That lighting met Federal Aviation Administration and Skywest regulations. 
The other called for all its lights to be on, adding a tail floodlight. a nose taxi light and wing-mounted takeoff and landing lights. 
The death toll stood at 34. Crews lifted the wreckage of the jet off the squashed commuter plane over the weekend and hauled both off the runway after completing their work in recovering bodies. 
USAir passenger Richard Ronk. 33, who suffered burns over 90 percent of his body, died Monday at Sherman Oaks Burn Center, said Dr. Richard Grossman. He was from Mans­field, Ohio. 
Sixty-seven of the 89 people aboard USAir Flight 1493 sur­vived. All 12 people aboard Skywest Flight 5569 were killed. 

"You can offend a lot of people 
but you can't offend God." 
Miller's lawyers insisted that he never set out to become a spy. 
The prosecutors, who had sought the harshest sentence possible, seemed to agree that Miller drifted into spying. 
"We never contended he set out to betray his country," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Schiff. "What we contended is that he set out to sleep with Svetlana Ogorodnikov, which he did on the first or second meet­ing.... Very quickly, his motiva­tion became a self-centered one of greed and lust." 
Miller. who showed no reac­tion when the sentence was read, was immediately led away in handcuffs to prison. 
Ogorodnikov pleaded guilty to spying and is serving an 18­year prison term. Her husband, Nikolai, who also pleaded guilty. has been paroled from prison and faces deportation. 
Miller, who as an FBI agent was assigned to counterintelli­gence, was arrested in 1984 and charged with conspiring to pass secrets to the Soviet Union. 
In convicting Miller, Takasugi concluded that the bumbling agent ultimately became the, tool of Mrs. Ogorodnikov, who enticed him with sex and promises of cash and gold. 
Schiff said that Miller's be­trayal was as serious as that committed by any spy. "The bottom line is that to the de­fense this is small and insignifi­cant. For the government it is one of the most critical betray­als of trust we have seen in years." 
Schiff said he was disap­pointed with the sentence but hoped that it would be suffi­cient to deter others from dis­closing classified material. 
than Takasugi could have cho­sen. A judge in an earlier trial on the same charges sentenced Miller to two consecutive life terms plus 50 years. The con­viction was overturned on ap­peal. 
Prosecutors successfully ar­gued that Miller, 54, traded sex for secrets in a romance with Svetlana Ogorodnikov, a Soviet emigre whose ties to that coun­try's government were shad­owy. 
Takasugi imposed the sen­tence after Miller stepped to a lectern in the packed courtroom and gave an emotional apology for his actions. He said he knew he had hurt his family, his co­workers and his church. 
"Most of all, I've offended my heavenly Father," Miller said. 

The Finance Club is sponsoring the 
'Ihe Obseorer.= 
33rd annual Finance Forum 
is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Typesetter 
Applicants should posess some computer experience, preferrably on the Macintosh. If you are interested, contact Bernard Brenninkmeyer or Gil Gomez at 239-5303 or stop by The Observer office on 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
ND/SMC SKI CLUB PRESENTS:
Robert Kerrigan 
of Northwestern Mutual Life and 
Frank Oelerich 
SUMMIT, COLORADO
of Morgan Stanley 
Fri. March 8-Sat. March 16 
*Transportation via bus 
*6 nights lodging 
*5 day lift pass (opt. 6th day) *group party
TONIGHT at 7 pm 
*lunch on the mountain 
* group dinner * $410.00 

Informational meeting/Last Sign Ups Tues. Feb. 5
at Theodore's 
8:00 Nieuwland Science Building Rm. 123 Questions? Call: Bob 283-3588 or Chris 283-1606 

OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 8 Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
BAnLESHI 


Battleships M1ssoun ana W1sconsm are currently servmg m the Gulf War. 
TOMAHAWK II CRUISE MISSILE  
Ship-launched cruise missile, capable of hitting distant targets with either a nuclear or conventional warhead with great precision. Length: 21ft. Diameter: 20.9 inches Wing Span: 8ft. 6 inches Cruise Engine: 606 pounds thrust, turbofan Range: 1,552 miles (land attack version); 279 miles (anti-ship version) Cruising speed: 550mph Source: Jane's Weapon Systems; Jane's Fighting Ships  barrel  projectile Five 11 0-lb. bags of gunpowder  

AP 

Marine 'Graves Unit' await ground war in Persian Gulf 

NORTHEAST SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Marine Lt. Col. John Cassady hopes for as little ac­tion as possible in the war with Iraq. 
It is the job of Cassady, and his company, to identify the remains of Marines killed in ac­tion and ship them home. With a ground war against Iraq likely in the coming weeks, Cas­sady expects he'll be busy. He hopes not. · 
"If we do our job perfectly, everybody who pays the price for what we're doing would be accounted for and returned home," said Cassady, who leads a Marine "graves registration" unit. 
Cassady's company is the most forward of the graves' units, now stationed not far south of the Kuwait border with Saudi Arabia. The unit has already handled the remains of 11 Marines killed last week, seven of them by a missile fired by a U.S. warplane. 
The unit also has prepared the remains of several Iraqis killed in combat. Cassady said they were treated "exactly the same" as Marines. 
Cassady said men are unher­alded but will play an unfortu­nate but vital role in the war. 
"These guys display a lot of courage," he said Monday. "It's not facing the enemy, but I tell you, it's facing a lot of reality. They grow up fast." 
A psychiatrist and chaplain make regular calls on the unit to check on morale. And Cas­sady says he talks bluntly with his men about death. 
"We find that by talking it out, we defuse problems," he said. 
Cassady, 40, of Stratford, N.J., said the toughest part of his job is handling remains that cannot be identified. 
In those cases, Cassady's staff takes fingerprints and does as much research as possible. 
German soldiers refuse duty in Turkey, look for conscientious-objector status 
BONN, Germany (AP) ­Forty-nine members of two German military units ordered to Turkey are seeking conscien­tious-objector status to dodge prospects they may have to fight in the Gulf War, officials said Monday. 
The news came amid reports of near-panic among many German soldiers who want to avoid getting caught up in the war. 
"Our phone is ringing off the hook," said the Re·v. Ulrich Finckh, head of a Bremen group that offers advice to would-be conscientious objec­tors. Finckh was quoted in this week's editions of Der Spiegel magazine. 
A 12-month military stint is compulsory for German men beginning at age 18. 
Conscripts, active-duty sol­diers and reservists can apply for conscientious-objector sta­tus, which allows them to sub­stitute work in a hospital, or other civilian service, for mili­tary duty. 
The Defense Ministry said it does not know how many sol­diers have asked permission to swap active duty for civil work because of the Gulf War. 
But it said the total number of active-duty soldiers. con­scripts and reservists seeking conscientious-objector status jumped from 7,665 in 1989 to about 14,000 last year, when gulf tensions were simmering. 
War jitters have especially hit hard in units that are being sent to help protect NATO ally Turkey against neighboring Iraq. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl has sent 18 warplanes, along with 220 ground crew members, to Turkey, citing Germany's NATO obligations. 
Last week he took further 
• Integrating Multimedia Into Your CUrriculum· 
• 'Too{s anti appfications for integrating various mdia sources as we!£as resources avai£afj{e on campus 
Wet!tUSt!ay~ !fe6ruary 6 •1:30pm 
.9l.nnen6e1JJ .9l.uaitorium/Snite Museum 
Reception afterwards in the Snite Atrium 
steps. ordering anti-aircraft rocket systems to Turkey and about 580 soldiers to operate them. 
Military officials said 49 members of two anti-aircraft. units that are taking part in the deployment have applied for conscientious-objector status. 
It was not clear how many of the 49 soldiers had actually been told they would be going to Turkey. Only parts of the two units are being deployed. 
A debate is raging among politicians over whether the German troops in Turkey should be sent to battle if the NATO ally is attacked. 
Kohl's government has said Germany will fulfill its NATO responsibilities, but a number of opposition Social Democrats are vehemently against sending the troops into combat. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 page 9 
Attack on shuttle bus in Saudi Arabia hurts 2 Americans 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­In what U.S. officials called a possible terrorist attack, a gunman fired at a shuttle bus carrying American military personnel in the port city of Jiddah, injuring two. 
The incident occurred Sunday night as the shuttle bus was passing a junkyard, according to U.S. military officials. 
The gunman fired at the bus with a 9mm pistol or rifle, and two Americans were slightly in­jured by flying glass, the offi­cials said. The attackers escaped. 
Military sources said an Egyptian driver and a Saudi se­curity guard were also aboard the shuttle bus, which was go­ing to a hotel in the Red Sea port. 
Col. Ahmed al-Robayan, a 
Saudi military spokesman, de­clined to characterize the inci­dent as a terrorist act, saying such a determination could not be made until the gunman was captured. 
"It's a small act and it could happen anywhere," he said. 
U.S. Marine Maj. Gen. Robert Johnston also said it was too early to describe the Jiddah in­cident as a planned terrorist act. He called it a "possible ter­rorist act." 
The incident was the first at­tack of its kind involving Amer­icans in Saudi Arabia since the Persian GulfWar began Jan. 17. 
There have been more than 70 terrorist attacks against Western interests around the world since the war began, although authorities say Iraq is suspected of direct involvement in few of them. 
"What we've seen so far have been rather amateurish affairs that were probably the work of local enthusiasts rather than trained terrorists," Frank Brenchley, director of London's Research Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism, said in a recent interview. 


JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said Monday that Israel is suffering from its restraint in the Gulf War but will not retaliate against Iraq without coordinat­ing with the United States. 
In his first major speech since the start of the war, Shamir left open the option of retaliating for Iraqi missile attacks. He told parliament that "an end will come" for Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. 
Also Monday, Defense Minis­ter Moshe Arens told Pales­tinian leaders he was willing to take steps to ease a curfew that has been in effect in the occu­pied territories since the Gulf War began. However, he made no promises about ending it. 
During the war, Iraq has fired about 30 Scud missiles at Israel, killing two civilians and wounding 270 others. Israel has not retaliated, partly because such a step could destabilize the U.S.-led anti-Iraqi front, which includes Arab countries. 
"Our contending with this, and our lack of active partici-
Shamir: Israel will work with U.S. on any retaliation against Iraq 


NEW YORK (AP) -The re­ported barring of Iraqi nation­als from Pam Am flights may violate a New York civil rights law and the airline's president has been subpoenaed to testify about the policy, the city Human Rights Commission said. 
City law prohibits discrimina­tion against people based on their citizenship and national origin, commission spokesman Lonnie Soury said Sunday. 
The commission has subpoe­naed the president of Pan
AP Photo 

American World Airways,
Major splash 
Thomas Plaskett, to explain the Capt. Bob Beardsley of Red Deer, Alberta, Canada, receives an 
policy, Soury said. The sub­unexpected shower from Master Cpl. Jerry Delong of Woodstock, 
poena, issued last Friday, asked New Brunswick, Canada (right), and Master Cpl. Kerry Roenspies of 
Plaskett to appear Thursday Saskatoon, Canada, Sunday in Qatar. 
before the commission. 
pation in defending the country, is causing us suffering, because it is contrary to our principles," Shamir said in his speech. 
"The time for us to take direct action against the Iraqi enemy will come when we ourselves make a decision to this effect in accordance with cir­cumstances," he said. 
Shamir added that Israeli re­taliation would require "an ap­propriate process of consulta­tions with the United States." 
The prime minister pointed to the pain inflicted on Israel by Saddam's threat to use chemi­cal weapons, but said this also brought determination. 
"Facing his demonic missiles, in our sealed rooms, men, women and children ... we all feel the common heartbeat that pulses within us all, our deter­mination to survive, our love for our homeland ... and knowledge that an end will come for the tyrant who has arisen." 
Shamir praised a "great ef­fort" by the United States to eliminate Iraqi missile launch­ers and noted the U.S. airlift of Patriot anti-missile missiles had helped to defend the country. 
His speech came at the end of a lengthy parliament debate on the gulf crisis. 
By a vote of 66 to 42, with eight abstentions, the parlia­ment approved a resolution by Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc. It praised the government's re­straint and stated that "the de­struction of the Iraqi war ma­chine is vital for peace of the region." 
In a separate debate, one Parliament leader demanded that Germany prosecute citizens who helped build Iraq's war machine, and several legislators urged Israel to turn down millions of dollars in German aid. German companies have allegedly helped Iraq produce chemical weapons and update its Scud missiles. 
Arens, the defense minister, appeared on Israel television and acknowledged that Pales­tinians are "truly going through terrible suffering" during the war. However, he put the blame on Iraq, not Israel. 
Rights commission subpoenas Pan Am 
Soury said a copy of the writ­ten policy he received from Pan Am states: 
"In its continuing review of security procedures imple­mented as a result of the Gulf War, Pan Am has decided to decline acceptance of passen­gers carrying passports issued by Iraq. This decision was made as a result of the conflict between the U.S. and Iraq and in particular, in response to Iraqi threats to engage in ter­rorism worldwide." 
Pan Am spokesman Jeff Kreindler said the airline would not comment on the subpoena and would not say if such a policy was in effect. 
Soury said the policy would apparently screen out "not only Iraqi nationals but recent im­migrants who are living here, many of whom are trying to escape Sad dam Hussein." 
On Thursday, the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee sued the airline on behalf of an Iraqi man who said he was barred from buying a ticket. 
The man, Salan Salman, is recognized by the State De­partment as a political refugee because his father, an Iraqi government adviser, was exe­cuted in 1963 by the regime that brought Saddam to power, court papers said. 
Ask not what opportunity can do for you, 
•

but ask what you can do to create opportunity. 

~/c@"t~6 .. •u£<t~~~ 'o 
1-800-288USA-1 
•~•mt~••*li:l>27ft2022JJF9 ~J:.· 
l>2928il6100JJF9 ··P':J~l>tUUt ••, 
~fi.::t-·;;~'7-~··-AMIWJ~·· 
···~~····~[>~~-ft~-~~~ 
·-••• t~JtF, y7.,7'J.,.I./:.;::.7 };t.)l*& 
[>Bachelor's DegreeJ:.J.J:. i:lP&(IIIl~~it, ~ t:)~~[>~~ *±20JJ2000F9('90~4~ ~ 
•~nff:4*~m~. •~~~2@1 '~* Bi*lfl ~r.ll117 a Pi5•1.15i r> iiJ!l ~.--:.; .:~.JC .u;~ 'J < t:~\.'oiHIII(;t~..,-r:ll~\.'f.: L1 To ~1tst RECRUIT U.S.A. 111 Pavonia Avenue. Jersey City. N.J. 07310 )lffft:;Jt [> J:.lc• 
~-~(: t:i~ft(:.:•IJ:;Jt(f.:'~\.'o (t.!H!HLllJ) 
·~ L(~RECRUIT U.S.A. ~fiO) qjj~ilj\O)f.:/Jf)O)i{.tJOiJ -t-.:•'1{ (f.:'~\. 'o 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, February 5, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
In early January, my children were listening to a tape of chil­dren's music by an artist named Raffi, including a song about five little ducks who go away and, one by one, do not come back. As I found myself singing it over and over, the simple idea of beings going away and not returning struck me as one of the basic trag·edies of war. At the time we were facing the thinking there was another way. "We'll work it out," said Jack and Mack. "Face to face, not back to back." 
Five said NO to war one day, thinking there was another way. It's not because of courage they lack -they shall resist but not fight back. 
A hundred said NO to war one day, thinking there was an­other way. They threw their 

"deadline" of Jan. 15, and the something. And it is never too "The enemy is bad -we must Just one man went to war one guns in a garbage sack and possibility of war in the Middle early to teach human beings attack!," but only four of the day, but this one said "That's buried it with their hate out East frightened me. that war is not a good way to men came back. okay. They can't defend my nu­back. 
solve problems Four men went to war one clear attack." This time not A million said NO to war one 
How does one explain the As we listened to news of the day, over the seas and far away. even one came back. day. There's no one left to fight, horror of war to little ones? first bombing raids a few days They went in tanks and on No one went to war the next anyway. They share their love One night, after I put the boys later, Benjamin and Joshua horseback, but only three of the day. It wasn't supposed to turn and the food they stack, and the to bed and with their fragile wanted to know what was hap­men came back. out that way. Now night won't others give their love right beauty in my heart, I made up pening and why their mother Three men went to war one fall and dawn won't crack. If back. different words to fit the tune, and I were so worried. We day, over the seas and far away. only we got choices back. We say NO to war today, as a way of describing war and talked about it, and then I sang Uncle Sam said, "Go beat Iraq!" knowing there is another way. opposition to it. I tried to keep it them this song: but only two of the men came AND BACK We stand together in a pack. simple enough that my three­back. One said NO to war one day, War is gone ... but peace came and five-year old could under­"To War and Back" Two men went to war one thinking there was another back. stand. Children do not need to day, over the seas and far away. way. He took his gun down be faced with all of the realities TO WAR The machine guns all went from its rack, and to the killing Mark Gunty of war, but when they are eager Five men went to war one clickety-clack. And only one of he turned his back. Off-Campus to learn, I must teach them day, over the seas and far away. the men came back. TWo said NO to war one day, Jan.28, 1991 
We all have moral obligation to stand up for beliefs 
Dear Editor: we must seek change. Everyone once we know the facts and to educate ourselves and then the United States should take. 
Issues as grave as the Persian has the right to express likelihoods. If a man's well­stand for what is right. This Nevertheless, I have an obliga­Gulf War must be approached opinions. Furthermore, a formed conscience leads him to obligation is not concerned with tion to listen to you, to judge rationally, democratically and search for truth or for goodness see administrative policies as what everyone else thinks or what has been said, to formu­morally. Actions of this scope must listen to many opinions if beneficial and moral, he should necessarily what those in power late an opinion, and to stand by deserve the serious reflection it is to be successful. To protest, make this known and stand by think. Our leaders and our what I consider as the best and and input of all. for the good of the nation, can his reasons (not only his majority, as humans, make good moral stance. Your obligations 
To unquestioningly support an be just as patriotic as to accept emotion). If a woman's well­and bad decisions. toward me are the same. authority is neither democratic decisions that have been made. formed conscience leads her to To blindly support an author­Let those who support the nor moral. Our nation is built Second, we must realize our see policies as wrong, she must ity figure is very dangerous. Persian Gulf War speak out. Let on the right to speak freely and moral obligations. We all must do what she can to cause a Founders of the United States those who oppose it speak out. the responsibility to become educate ourselves and then fol­change and continue until a sought to take power out of the We all have our rights and our involved in our government. If low our consciences. Education change is brought about. She, hands of one or a few and to put duties. our nation or its representatives involves careful analysis of all too, should support herself with it in the minds of many. It is undertake or consider aspects of an issue. Only then reasonable facts and also undemocratic and amoral Rex J. Rempel undertaking an action that is can we make good choices. And probabilities. to quietly fall in line. We don't St. Edward's Hall not in our nation's best interest. we must follow our consciences We all have moral obligations all agree what courses of action Jan.28,1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'If we live good lives, the times 
are also good.  As we are, such  
are the times.'  
St. Augustine  

r--------------------------------------------~ -~---------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 page 11 
Minorities are not the only disadvantaged people 
starts or any type of favoritism. changes my whole future. After have gotten nothing for being a interest group. and self-interest 
R. Garr Schwartz When I was applying for col­I graduate, I have an eight-year white male; how can I possibly groups seek power to enforce Guest Columnist leges, I was hoping to receive military commitment to keep, be expected to support SUFR's their beliefs on others. SUFH some kind of financial aid, but and eight years and an educa­demands? I have and will never can only count on creating 
I find it very hard to see there was none for white tion is about all I have been support anything that promotes power and more racial tension. what advantages I, a middle­males. My family's income was given. In some eyes, it may segregation and the benefit of a I know it is easier to criticize dass main, have over minority that of a middle-class family; sound like I have plenty, but I certain group. than to solve, but I can only say students. Do you know how my mother did not work, and earned it. I have never gotten My only regret in writing this that my purpose is to end racial many advantages I was given even though I have three more than what I deserve, and letter is some of my friends, barriers, not to create them. I while I was growing up? Zero. younger siblings, I still was not SUFR is asking in excess of who happen to be minorities, believe in a unity that can be Evnrything that I have gotten, I eligible for financial aid. I what it deserves. may be offended. I just hope achieved through non-exclusion have had to work for-and I decided to make great SUFR's demands seem to re­they understand the frustra­and education, not in discrimi­know that no one has ever sacrifices to come to this volve around racially exclusive tions that white males also go natory self-interest groups. given me anything because I school. ideas that benefit minorities through. Many social groups am a white male. I have I am able to attend Notre alone. While my struggles may have problems, but SUFR is R. Garr Schwartz is a junior received no financial Dame only because I have an not have been as hard as some, demanding undeserved in the College of Business advantagns, academic head H.O.T.C. scholarship, which I still have had to struggle. I concessions. SUFH is a self-Administration. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
White student experiences both ugly sides of racism 
Dear Editor: Thanksgiving. In the midst of lite and thoughtless it is to even several people were standing. I racist, bigoted hypocrites. 
For much of my life, I only the reminiscing, the catching­consider smoking around non­was standing towards the back, I don't hate those black boys thought of radsm in terms of up and the laughter, I remem­smokers. She didn't hesitate to and, though there were a few for subjecting me to what has the Ku Klux Klan, lynching, and ber all too well meeting my 16-speak her mind then. And my open seats, I didn't attempt to undoubtedly been shoved down segregation. I thought that year-old sister's eyes and father has, on occasion, em­sit down. One reason f~r this their throats more than once radsm was, for the most part, a seeing my own astonishment phatically refuted and con­was because the teenaged boys -but I don't think they are thing of the past. However, the and disgust reflected in her tested the beliefs that my aunts sitting back there were right. And, the other day, when more experiences I had out in face: the simultaneous or uncles have asserted. sprawled all over them, and I saw a girl in the dining hall the "real" world, the more I realization that my aunt, and In truth, they aren't afraid to they were already starting to wearing a sweatshirt realized that prejudice, as sub­all the rest of my childhood defend the principles they feel harass another white girl proclaiming black women as tle and harmless as it might heroes, are racist. It wasn't just strongly about, they just don't standing by me, so I didn't intelligent, talented, and appear on the surface, is far revealed in a sentence or two. really care about racism. I al­think I should press the issue. beautiful, I was offended. Why? from being simply an event in Repeatedly, they demonstrated most understand. Defending During the course of the five Because if I went around with a history. -unconsciously, no doubt­yourself when being personally minute trip, they started to get snow white sweater (hers was I spent this Thanksgiving in that they they believe that attacked is almost instinctive. rowdy and crude, and seemed coal black), claiming those Louisvilh~. Kentucky, where my black human beings are not My parents aren't black. to be trying to pick a fight with same qualities for white mothc~r was born and raised, their equals. Neither am I, but I had an ex­anyone white near them, taunt­women, I'd be labeled as racist. and where the majority of her To hear the word "nigger" perience that opened my eyes ing one girl by offering her a I've never been black, so I siblings still live. When I was come out of the mouth of to the ways that racism (even seat, but doing it in such a way can never understand the growing up, most summers my someone I love and respect was when not openly hostile -as in that she couldn't really say yes. prejudice that the black family would pile into the sta­a shock, and to see my parents the case of my relatives) and The bus driver (a black American has experienced and tion wagon and head to laughing at a racist joke, when the complacency of non-racists woman) started to get angry. is still fighting against. The Knntucky for a week or so of I know that neither of them is towards racism (like my par­She demanded that they let us racism I have witnessed vacation. Some of the most prejudiced, was a revelation. ents), can affect me very di­sit down. One boy looked at me recently has shown me that wonderful mnmories of my But they couldn't openly disap­rectly. and offered me the seat next to there are no simple answers to c~hildhood are of those times. prove, could they? We were I often take the bus to the him, to which the boy on the the problem. I know that My aunts. uncles, and cousins guests, and causing a scene is mall. The bus coming back, other side responded, "Yeah, people who, while not wnre laid-back, fun-loving, car­not a very sociable thing to do. many times, is actually going to I'll let that white bitch sit by themselves racist, accept (and, ing and hilarious. The love and However, I've rarely seen my downtown South Bend but me." By this time, we had therefore, give approval to) admiration I feel for my rela­mother madder than when my makes a stop at campus. Often, reached Notre Dame, and I prejudice by not confronting tives runs deep. A part of me father's brother, knowing that in those cases, the majority of stumbled off the bus. I was the evil and contribute much to has always wanted to be just she smokes, invited us to his the people on the bus are black stunned, angry, hurt and con­the mentality of our society likn tlwm. home and proceeded, not only teenagers on their way down­fused. I had done nothing at all which still harbors so much I hadn't benn to visit in two to request that she not smoke, town. On one particular occa­to provoke them, yet they at­hate and contempt for those of years when we went this past but to lecture her on how impo-sion, the bus was very full, and tacked me -and they did it be­a different color. However, I cause I was white. don't think emphasizing our 
The saddest thing is that I differences will solve anything. 
Iceberg Debates to begin tonight 
almost understand, though I in For five minutes one day last Editor: have magnified the complex will debate the validity of this no way excuse them for how spring, I was the 
Tonight is the opening night relationship between athletics resolution tonight and on they made me feel. A white minority-surrounded by an of the 1991 leeberg Debates. At and academics. Thursday, Feb. 7. Witness one person sees one black homeless angry, hateful and scornful 9 p.m. in thc~ various dorms, 22 of these debates and examine man or reads one newspaper majority. For those five teams will be debating the Many have argued that the the opposing sides of this article about a crime commit­minutes, I felt the fear, rnsolution: That big-time primary concern of a university crucial issue. You will have the ted by a black, and he or she desperation and resentment athletics play a detrimental role is to foster academic excellence opportunity to voice your can develop the image of all that unfounded denunciation in Arrwrican colleges and in research and scholastics and personal opinion during the blacks as dirty, uneducated, creates. It did nothing to universities. that a disproportionate focus on question-and-answer forum criminal, drug-addicted bums. convince me of the humanity of 
This issue has always been athletics impedes that follows the debate. A black child is a nigger on the blacks-it did much to prove to elosely scrutinized in Notre complementing the collegiate street, and all the whites within me the inhumanity of men. Dame athletics. Haghib Ismail's experience, in addition to Kathryn Pirrotta hearing distance turn away and dndsion to entnr the NFL draft providing financial assistance Chairperson act as though they didn't hear, Catherine A. Hechmer and the plaeement of Laphonso to reward athletic achievement. 1991 Iceberg Debates and he or she can get the im­Knott Hall Ellis on academic probation The Iceberg Debate participants Feb.S, 1991 pression that all whites are Feb. 1,1991 
Student's misconceptions about SUFR changed after meeting 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the reeent articles and actions of the group SUFH (Students United for Respect). There are many misconceptions about the purpose and goals of this organization that may lead to erroneous conclusions about SUFH on the part of many stu­dents. Thnse misconceptions stnm from the type of press they have reenived and from University officials' failure to address issues. 
From what I have heard through the grapevine, the members of SUFH were charac­terized as a group of Afro­American students out to bene­fit themselves by presenting the University with a set of de­mands with whieh it had to comply or else face the conse­quences. 
This impression was vastly changed when I attended the mcwting held by Professor 
Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, intending to address the issues and demands presented by SUFR. At this meeting, the members of SUFR presented their list of demands to Professor O'Hara and her staff in an open forum setting. The people who attended the meeting comprised a wide range of minorities that included Hispanics, Afro­Americans, Native Americans and Asian Pacific Islanders who supported the need for a policy in du Lac concerning racial dis­crimination in the classroom. 
The group also proposed the development of a Multi-Cultural Student Center which would be used not only as a gathering place for minorities, but also as a way to educate the University on issues from a minority point of view. Education in this ca­pacity would include an ethnic library and minority art exhibit that would include works form different authors and artists. These would inform the Notre Dame community of the "Cultural Diversity" located on campus. 
Many people counter this proposal by stating that there currently is no individual center for their clubs, and, thus, why should the minorities have spe­cial privileges. However, what these people fail to realize is that the University's intention, upon accepting minorities, was to promote this sense of Cultural Diversity at Notre Dame. However, upon accept­ing minorities, the University has done nothing further to promote the "Cultural Diversity" it speaks so highly about. This Multi-Cultural Center is viewed as a direct way to implement what the University had intended to do when it started accepting mi­norities. The group is not ask­ing for a separate building ex-elusively for minorities, but it is asking for a gathering place to promote Cultural Diversity for everyone on campus. 
Throughout the meeting, Professor O'Hara seemed at a Joss for words. Intentionally or not, she shunned many ques­tions and avoided direct an­swers by passing the burden of responsibility to various coun­sels and senates, where these issues are currently being de­bated. She spoke of being a li­aison between the students and the Administration but on one occasion failed to approve the appointment of an Assistant Director of the Office of Minority Affairs "because the candidate did not have a mas­ters degree," even though the candidate did have the support of the Director of the Office of Minority Affairs and of the mi­nority students that were in­volved in the interviewing pro­cess. 

When asked if it was possible to start the hiring procedure for another assistant, Professor O'Hara informed the group that her office was currently over­budgeted and was using the budgeted salary for this position to cover other costs. At the end of the meeting, she failed to concretely answer any of SUFR's demands and accomplished nothing but setting a date for their next meeting. 
I admit that some of the de­mands will take time to imple­ment and, thus, SUFH should recognize the fact that the University is bureaucratic in nature. However, the University should also recognize that it has procrastinated long enough in ignoring minority issues and move quickly to address the issues brought forth by SUFH. 
Bernard Nunies Grace Hall Jan.30,1991 

Accent 
page 12 Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
You don't need New Orleans to celebrate 

By MAUREEN GALLAGHER dolls will be able to enjoy door, ten for $1.00, and at 9 Accent Writer everything at no expense at the p.m. all of the tickets will be party on Thursday. put into a hat; the person All of Haggar College Center whose ticket is drawn will win 
Saint Mary's College has will be decked out to celebrate a color TV and a Nintendo set. planned a very special celebra­Mardi Gras with style on For entertainment you can tion for Mardi Gras this year. Thursday Feb. 7. From 7-9 have your future told by a for­The festivities will be kicked off p.m. everyone can sway to the tuneteller or have your picture on Feb. 5 at Club Tuesday fea­beat of Pat Heiden's Rhythm drawn by a caricature artist. If turing the singer Brian Husky and Blues Band in the Parlor. you want to relax, you can sit I 
For a savory bite to eat, the back and enjoy the antics of 
Snack Bar is offering a special the juggler and magician who 'Get out and celebrate of buffalo wings, mozzarella will be present. Mardi Gras ... and indulge sticks, fried vegetables, a soda Be sure to bring your wallet 
and dessert for only $1.00. because the bookstore will be
for a while' 

For those in an adventurous open for a Moonlight Madness 
mood there will be Carnival sale, and there will also be fine 
Games. You can try your luck at jewelry and pottery on sale in 
who will be performing from 9-a roulette or craps table, try the Chameleon Room. 11 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. popping a few balloons, or play Everyone is welcome, and the 
..... 
There will be free refreshments basketball hoops. Each of the more the merrier. Get out and including a traditional Mardi games will be giving away gift celebrate Mardi Gras and Gras King cake which will have certificates to the bookstore or maybe win a prize or two. two toy dolls in it. The two Hacienda as prizes. Tickets for Bring a few friends and indulge lucky people who get these the games can be bought at the for awhile. 




Lolly, Lolly, Lolly get your education here 
I think I've finally figured out It's called the nervous system. care what your favorite song I understand that you can ac­why college seems so much And everybody understands is? I don't even KNOW you! tually rent a tape of the school­
lan Mitchell 

harder than grade school. those telegram commands, and Get a life! Leave me out of your house rock songs. Now, I don't There aren't any "Schoolhouse don't you know that everybody twisted fantasies! know if they're accepting ideas Rock" songs about most colle­better listen." Lion Taming Ahem. Anyway, it's my opin­for the next Keenan Revue yet,
giate class topics. Don't ion that the decline of but I suggest they playlaugh-most of what I American Government: American education began the "Schoolhouse Rock" in between 
remember from elementary "Well, I'm just a bill, yes, I'm votes for the best "Schoolhouse day "Schoolhouse Rock" was 
acts. Of course, I can't speakschool is stuff from those only a bill and I'm sitting here Rock" segment, then place the taken off the air. It was for the sane, but I personallySaturday morning cartoon on Capitol Hill." paper in a business-size enve­replaced, I believe, by the long to do a group sing-along.breaks. (This, of course, does lope and... THROW IT OUT! Or nutrition guys who lectured C'mon, everybody: not include my vivid and American History: send it to Chuck Young! Or "don't drown your food" and "Schoolhouse Rocky, a chip off painful recollections of the "Take your powder, take your staple it to your forehead, for "watch out for the munchies," the block of your favorite mandatory square dancing gun, report to General Wash­all I care! Whatever you do, but somehow it wasn't the schoolhouse, Schoolhouse sessions in Phys. Ed., but I'd ingtofl, the minute men are don't send it to me! What do I same. Rock!" rather not talk about that.) ready and on the move." 
Well, anyway, I'll bet you re­member all those Saturday ed­"Schoolhouse Rock" helped ucational tunes, too, even if you me get by in school long after won't admit it in public. Take a 6th grade. In high school we look at the vast array of sub­got extra credit for memorizing jects covered in "Schoolhouse the preamble to the Constitu­Rock" segments and just try to tion, and I knew I wasn't alone read the catch-phrases without in my method when, on the day supplying the tune: of the exam, the classroom was 
filled with the low humming 
Parts of Speech: sounds of students singing the 
"I find it quite interesting: a "Rock" version to themselves. 
The after-effects of a 'Well, I'm JUSt a 6111, yes, "Schoolhouse Rock" education linger with me to this day. In
I'm only a bill and I'm 

my college economics class, ev­sitting here on Capitol ery time the professor men­tioned the "consumption func­
Hill. . .' 

tion" the entire class would be­gin mumbling: "Consumption
noun's a person, place or 
function, what's your function?
thing." 

Picking up words and phrases"Lolly, Lolly, Lolly get your and clauses ... " adverbs here." 
One thing I've noticed is that"Verb! That's what's happen­
everybody usually has their
ing!" 

own favorite "Rock" segment. In fact, here's a fun game: poll
Human Anatomy: your friends as to what their''I'm a machine, you're a ma­favorite "Schoolhouse Rock"

chine, everybody that you 
song is. Using an 8 1/2" x 11"know, you know they are sheet of college-ruled paper,
machines. Your high-tech, 
clearly print the name, year inrevved-up body machine." 
school and residence hall of
"Well there's a telegraph line, 
each person along with their
you got yours and I got mine. 

-~------_.....-----------~--------~ -­
The Observer 
Tuesday, February 5, 1991 page 13 
Crop losses compel Sunkist to drop sponsorship of Fiesta Bowl 
TEMPE. Ariz. (APl -Sunkist Growers Inc., hit hard by a frnflZfl that caused an estimated $700 million damage to citrus crops, has dropped its Fiesta Bowl sponsorship, the bowl's presid11nt said today. 
Chuck .Johnson said the hunt has begun for a new sponsor for the bowl, which paid 1991 participants Louisville and Alabama $2.6 million each. J)p,spite dropping its game sponsorship, Sunkist will con­tinue to underwrite costs of the Fiesta Bowl Parade. 
"While we wish it were possi­ble to continue our title associ­ation with the Fiesta Bowl Football Classic, circumstances clearly beyond our control have requin~d an adjustment on our part." Russell L. Hanlin, presi­dent of the growers coopera­tive, said in a Fiesta Bowl news rfelease. 
Hanlin did not immediately return a telephone call to his 
Classifieds 
L NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy 
Want a great JOb? Then you need a great RESUME I Only $20 mcluding 25 copies & envelopes on quality paper. MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST Gold Gaurdian Angel Pin Great sentimental value Call Adrienne 284·5223 
Lost · Silver necklace in CSC on 1/30. Reward. Prof. O'Brien 239­7312. 
LOST-POLO silver Wire rimmed glasses no case please call nm xt649 
LOST: Green and white baseball hat with an "I." Lost Friday night at Las Vegas Party. Call Dan at 234­1048 
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of a link design. Great sentimental value. Reward. Phone 2156 (Maria). 
LOST ON MONDAY AT ACC: GOLD-AND-SILVER-COLORED WATCH. ACOMMEMORATIVE 
GIFT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
REWARD! PLEASE CALL 2710621. 
LOST-DETEX. REWARD. 283­4909. 
LOST: PR. OF POLO WIRE RIM GLASSES IN BR. CASE. TODD X1724 
FOUND: Eyeglass Case, found Sat. Feb. 2 on path from Flanner to NDH behind PW. Call X !583 to identify. 
Found on Sat. Feb 2 in Rm 4 Fisher-a Tan & White 21 day Birth Control Pill Dispenser-call Bob 111876 to retrieve 
Found on Sat. Feb 2 In Rm 4 Fisher-a Tan & White 21 day Birth Control Pill Dispenser-call BOb 111876 to retrieve 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BDILAUNDRY, 
TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST 
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 

TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA. 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536.1\AEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)­SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 
(914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. 
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM $1000 in just one week. Earn up to $1 000 for your campus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 morel This program works! No investment needed. Call 1­800-932-0525 Ext. 50. 
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY! ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME. 
CALL FOR INFORMATION 504-641-8003 EXT. 6840 
WANTED-Female Housemate to share house in nice neighborhood 5 min. from campus. $240 WI uti!. call Angie 234-5316 
GRAPHICS ARTS STUDENT NEEDED FOR CATALOG LAYOUT. PROJECT IS ON PC­BASED DESKTOP PUBLISHING SYSTEM. WILL TRAIN. CALL DENNIS 293-3568 (DAYS) 272­5031 (EVES) 
EXPERIENCED TAEKWONDO INSTRUCTION FOR 16 YEAR OLD MALE ATHLETE. CALL 277 4316 EVENINGS. 
FOR RENT 
I 

Furnished bedroom in Turtle Creek town house! Available immediately! Call Tim @ X2506 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to campus. Only $150/month. Call Paul 287-2159. 
3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616 

4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232­1776 
Van Nuys, Calif., office for com­ment. 
Johnson said the bowl board planned to spend about six months talking to potential sponsors. 
The money for this year's game included an extra $100,000 per school to be used for minority scholarships ­fallout from reaction to Arizona's lack of a paid state holiday for Martin Luther King Jr. 
But Johnson said the King Day 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 

Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. Prime locations. 233­9947. 
FOR SALE 
Gibson Epiphone Bass Guitar Brand New, Great Action! Best Offer. Call Eddie@ 272-8198 

ROLEX WATCH, lady's, new, orig. cost $3,000. Sacrifice. Dan 289­2797. 
FOR SALE: Smith Corona Personal Word Processor (System 14) 

Contains typewriter XE 6100 w/dictionary; when hooked to monitor becomes word processor. 2 in 11 
Interested? Steph @ 4322 
TICKETS 
2 PENN & TELLER TIX 

15TH ROW FRI, FEB 8 STAR PLAZA CALL 234-2527 LEAVE MESSAGE 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR INDIGO GIRLS. CALL EVES 272 9602 
( PERSONALS 

A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $299! DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­800-638-6786. 
Adoption: Loving couple, doctor and teacher, longing to share our love with newborn. We'll give your baby a caring, warm, and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect 212-874-3537. 
PREGNANT? Loving, happily­married professional couple wishing to adopt. We promise your child lots of love, security, strong religious affiliation, & a lifetime of happiness including international travel/educational/& living opportunities. We enjoy skiing, hiking, camping, and visits with family and friends. Medical, legal, counseling, and living expenses possible. Call COLLECT 0-317­253-8838, Extension 567 and let us help you. 
PLEASE HELP I I NEED JUST ONE TICKET TO THE INDIGO GIRLS CONCERT I WILL PAY$$ OR MIGHT STILL HAVE ONE TICKET TO "LIVING COLOUR" THIS FRIDAY FOR TRADE OPTION. CALL PAUL AT 232-9646 BRIAN MOLINARI BRIAN MOLINARI BRIAN MOLINARI 
Happy 22nd Birthday 'Bucallll 
-Don't get so ripped that you need someone to "rub your head to make the pain go away" II 
Have a great day! Love, Razz 
You've all dragged your feet for too long. All three are gone. Scott got Val, Eric got Jan and Steve got Katie. You all should've moved faster. 
-The Second Choice 
Who's got the b(ggest ring? 
Sara, "Lowenstein, Lowenstein." Lynn 
Laugh at me? Laugh at you II 
!I HOWARD I! Kim and Cheryl 4 Sec. 
CaPieTne the allusion? Nihil est enim renumeratione benevolentiae, nihil vicissitu­dine studiorum Cifficiorumque iucundus. -Cicero 
Matt Bomberter and John Kinney, Thanks for the fun time on Sun. Are you guys still repressed? Aerobicizel 
-Renee, Erin, Becky 
LOST AT LAS VEGAS PARTY ON MARION STREET: A white and green hat with an "I" on it. If you have it, please return it to Dan (234-1048). Sentimental value. 
WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.00! DON'T MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL 1-800-427-7710. 
ADOPTION: Christian couple seeks to adopt white infant. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad and answer our prayers. Please call Harry and Melody collect at 
(219) 259-0585 any time. 
SPRING BREAK in Cancun or Bahamas from $299.001 Includes roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, cruise. beach parties, free lunch and much morel Organize a small group-earn free trip plus cash. Call 1-800-BEACH IT. 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 2729305 
NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5 DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC I D. ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD. CALL 277-6245. 
I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8 Call Missy at 2577 $$ 
HAPPY 21st B-DAY COLLEEN I Now you can finally go back to Bridget'sll Piece and Comfort, Love the 4A Underground 
Hey Chrissy Rudolph-Happy Birthday-watch out-I'm scamming you! The Scammer 
issue was not a factor in the loss of game sponsorship. He said the move was forced by the late-December freeze to crops in Arizona and California. 
"They're in a situation where they're dealing with a devastat­ing thing like a freeze, and the last thing they're thinking about is the holiday situation in Arizona," Johnson said. 
Johnson declined to say how much Sunkist contributed last year to the game, parade or the 60-plus other events included under the Fiesta Bowl um­brella. He acknowledged the impact would be substantial but wouldn't be as bad as a pullout of all Sunkist sponsor­ship. 

"That's the first thing we thought about when we heard of the freeze," Johnson said. 
Sunkist has been involved in sponsorship of Fiesta Bowl events since the first game in 1971, but did not became the chief sponsor of both the pa­rade and the game until 1985. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
spaces. 

Siegfried girls and assorted boyfriends of section 3·B: Let me first publicly vow to make your 21st birthday ads as truly tasteless as humanly possible. Now, thanks so much for a most excellent 21st!ll So glad we all had a drink on me (right C-Angus?) 
Love, Liza 
P.S. Nice packing job, Alii 
P.P.S. Herbie, you -Ill! 
John O'Brien gets chicks! 

My prince Thank you tor giving me a rose when I had a bad day. You are sooo sweet. Sorry about the rocky weekend. I'll try to make it up to you next weekend. OK? By the way, I have some film that I 'd like you to develop for me. Do you have enough time to do it? I love you, even when you are a TUM. SN 
Dearest Micheal Hortatsos, Love of my life, as Valentines draws closer do you think we could finally consumate our mutual lust for eachother in your water bed? There is nothing which would please me more than your Greek body... Love and licks .... me. 
CRISSY RUDOLPH IS FINALLY LEGAL!! (legally able to vote, that is) 
Liza Bourdon was a belching, beer­sucking babe on her 21st. 
P.S. Garth Brooks is a country bumpkin 

Everyone call Crissy Rudolph and wish her a happy birthday. Or just buy her a bottle of Bacardi. 
HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY CRISSY RUDOLPH Ill !Ill 
SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA! Fun in the sun on the beach in our NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated AAA excellent. Call now 1-904­252-1412. 
To Ms. Chablani. .. In an attempt to answer to your rather probing question, I feel compelled to counter with this ... it's knewlove ...in the past tense. And you...what do you have to say for yourself? sheep or spam 
Hey Sea Nymph, meet me behind the sheet! 
Dearest Cynthia, Still thy name eludes me, although methinks/1 have found thee out./ Why your heart shrinks/ From self­revelation I do not know-/ Thy stated fear is that I would forego/ The love thy heart bears for me if thy name/ Were revealed to me. Could it me shame/ That encourages silence? I cannot make/ Love to a sonnet. I ask thee take/ My quite humble and simply­versed rhyme/ (If rhyming be not now a terrible crime)/ As a sign of faith; but of games I tire,/ So this answer: Have you in Star Trek attire/ Been? I await your response. -Colin 
ATIN: All Crew Team members (present and former); Only 28 days until John O'Brien's 21st Birthday. 
Happy belated 22nd birthday to Farley's favorite dweeb, Michelle Berninger. 
ST. EDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 
Slaalftca.l People Slaalllca.l ......,. at Ill Edward't Hall 
Father Hesburgh SPEAKS ON 
"WHAT I THINK ABOUT THE WAR IN THE GULF' 
Wednesday, February 6 7:00P.M. 


DAYTONA BEACH  .,0.. •tt9*  
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  ''""'Sf29*  
STEAMBOAT  "on· '96 *  
FORT LAUDERDALE  ''""''1~7*  
PANAMA CITY BEACH  ''""''124 *  
CORPUS CHRISTl I  
MUSTANG ISLAND  """''fOB*  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  ~rom$ff2*  

DON'T WAIT Til ITS TOO LATE 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 

1·800·321·5911 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ 
~ Jeff Burgfechtel's ~ ~ 3rd Annual ~ ~ Spring Break Party ~ 
I I
~Daytona Beach or South ~ ~Padre Island. For INFO and ~ 
~LAST CHANCE ~~ 
~s~n~p ~ ~Tues., Feb. 12 ~ ~ Montegomery Theater ~ ~ LaFortune 7pm ~ ~or Call Jenn 284-5087 ~ 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.J 
Best Parties! 
'1
Best Prices! : 
I 
Cancun, ~= 
Mexico !: 
~I 
per u I from: $469 person : 

Spoce L1mited, Coil NOW: 
I I Tore Steen I 
I 289-3336 I I 
................. 
page 14 
Tuesday, February 5, 1991

SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Boston 33 12 Philadelphia 24 20 New York 20 25 Washington 20 26 New Jersey 14 31 Miami 12 34 Central Division Detroit 33 14 Chicago 30 14 Milwaukee 30 18 Atlanta 24 21 Indiana 19 25 Cleveland 15 30 Charlotte 14 31 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L San Antonio 31 12 Utah 30 15 Houston 25 21 Dallas 15 27 Minnesota 15 28 Denver 14 30 Orlando 12 33 Pacific Division Portland 38 8 LA Lakers 34 11 Phoenix 29 15 Golden State 25 19 Seattle 21 23 LA Clippers 15 30 Sacramento 12 31 
Sunday's Games Boston 119, Washington 101 Phoenix 112, Detroit 97 Milwaukee 120, Charlotte 111 LA Lakers 99. Chicago 86 Minnesota 110, Philadelphia 102, 20T 
Houston 143, Golden State 135, 20T Monday's Games Late Games Not Included Seattle 100, Charlotte 93 Milwaukee 103, Cleveland 96 New Jersey at Portland, (n) Chicago at Sacramento, (n) Tuesday's Games Cleveland at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. New York at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Utah at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Indiana at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Golden State at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Denver at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. LA Clippers at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Wednesday's Games Charlotte at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Miami at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Houston at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Phoenix at Utah, 9:30 p.m. LA Clippers at Seattle, 10 p.m. Portland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 

~-­
NHL LINESCORES 
At Detroit Loa Ange•a 3 ~ Detro II 1 0 3--4 
First Period--1, Los Angeles, Rob~allle 28 (EIIk, TaylOr). 5:59 (pp). 2. Detroit, Yzerman 39 (Fedorov, Ysebaert), 16:46 (pp). Second Perlod--3, Los Angeles, Tonelli 11 (Rob~allle, Gretzky), 4:43 (pp). 4, Los Angeles, Benning 5 (Gretzky, Sandstrom), 
8:31. 5, Los Angeles, Tonelli 12 (Miller, Gretzky), 18:05 (pp). Third Period-S, Detroit, Federov 23 (Gallant, Yzerman), 4:06 (pp). 7, Detroit, Ysebaert 9 (Houda, Cheveldae). 5:56. 8, Detroit, Yzerman 40, 7:03. 9, Los Angeles, Rob~allle 29 (Taylor, Ellk), 15:55. 10, Los Angeles, Sandstrom 28 (Rob~allle, Benning), 16:57.
11'-..::==~ 

Pet GB L10 .733 4-6 .545 8 1/2 4-6 .444 13 5-5 .435 13 1/2 4-6 .311 19 4-6 .261 21 1/2 2-8 
.702 7-3 
.682 1 1/2 6-4 
.625 3 1/2 4-6 
.533 8 4-6 .432 12 1/2 6-4 .333 17 4-6 .311 18 3-7 
Pet GB L10 .721 7-3 .667 2 6-4 .543 7 1/2 6-4 .357 15 1/2 3-7 .349 16 4-6 .318 17 1/2 8-2 .267 20 3-7 
.826 8-2 .756 3 1/2 10-0 .659 8 6-4 .568 12 7-3 .477 16 5-5 .333 22 1/2 3-7 .279 24 1/2 4-6 
At Montreal 
Mlnneaota 2 0 
Montreal 0 2 
,.:::::..-111 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Signed Roy Smith and Israel Sanchez. pitchers, to minor-league contracts. Named Michael Fiorelli maketing coordinator, Scott lndorf assistant director of stadium services and Richard Simmons sales representative. Promoted Aric Holsinger to chief financial officer and Paul Zwaska to head groundskeeper. Added a team in the Gulf Coast League which will play out of Sarasota, Fla. CLEVELAND INDIANs-Named Pat Ciccantelli strengh and conditioning coach. KANSAS CITY ROYAL&-Agreed to terms with Kurt Stillwell, shortstop, on a one-year contract. TEXAS RANGERs-Agreed to terms with Charley Kerfeld, pitcher, and Mike Stanley, catcher, on minor-league contracts. National League CHICAGO CUB&-Agreed to terms with Mark Grace, first baseman, on a one-year contract. HOUSTON ASTRO&-Agreed to terms with Casey Candaele. second baseman, on a one­year contract. LOS ANGELES DODGERs-Agreed to terms with Kal Daniels, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
BASKETBALL Liberty Basketball Association LBA ALL-STAR&-Signed Marie Godby, center: Tracey Hall, Tanya Edwards, and Nikita Lowry, guards. 
FOOTBALL National Football League LOS ANGELES RAMs-Named Jimmy Raye passing game-receivers coach and John Teerlinck defensive line coach. MINNESOTA VIKINGs-Named Monte Killin defensive coordinator. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERs-Named Richard Williamson head coach and signed him to a two-year contract. Named Phil Krueger general manager. Canadian Football League EDMONTON ESKIMOs-Named Ron Lancaster head coach. World League of American Football LONDON MONARCHs-Named Larry Kennan head coach. 
v 

HOCKEY National Hockey League NHL-Announced that Grant Fuhr. Edmonton Oilers goaltender, has been reinstated after serving five months of a one-year suspension for violation of the league's substance abuse policy and is eligible to return Feb. 18. NEW YORK RANGERs-Sent Rick BenneU, left wing. and Paul Broten, right wing, to Binghamton of the American Hockey League. ST. LOUIS BLUEs-Traded Herb Raglan, right wing, and Tony Twist and Andy Rymsha, defenseman, to the Quebec Nordiques for 
1--3 
Darin Kimble, right wing.
3-6 
WASHINGTON CAPITALs-Recalled Reggie 

NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L T NY Rangers 27 
19 9 Pittsburgh 29 
23 3 Philadelphia 27 
23 6 New Jersey 22 
22 10 Washington 24 
28 3 NY Islanders 18 
28 8 Adams Division Boston 31 17 
8 

Montreal 30 20 
6 
Hartford 23 

25 6 Buffalo 21 
22 10 Quebec 11 
34 9 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division 

w L T Chicago 34 17 4 St. Louis 31 16 
7 Detroit 24 27 5 Minnesota 17 31 9 Toronto 14 35 5 Smythe Division Los Angeles 30 18 5 Calgary 28 20 5 Edmonton 27 22 3 Winnipeg 20 29 8 Vancouver 19 31 
5 

Monday's Games Los Angeles 6, Detroit 4 Montreal 5, Minnesota 3 Toronto 6, St. Louis 5, OT Tuesday's Games Edmonton at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Los Angeles at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Washington, 7:35 p.m. Calgary at New Jersey, 7:45 p.m. Wednesday's Games St. Louis at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Edmonton at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers. 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's 
1. 
Virginia (20-1) did not play. 

2. 
Penn State (17-1) did not play. 

3. 
Georgia (19-2) did not play. 

4. 
Purdue (18-1) did not play. 


5. 
Tennessee (18-4) did not play. 

6. 
North Carolina State (18-3) did not play. 

7. 
Auburn (19-3) beat Murray State 89-44. 

8. 
Stanford (16-3) did not play. 

9. 
Rutgers (18-1) did not play. 

10. 
Western Kentucky (18-1) did nol play. 

11. 
Arkansas (17-3) did not play. 

12. 
Washington (15-3) did not play. 

13. 
LSU (16-4) did not play. 


14. 
Mississippi (16-4) did not play. fs. Texas (14-5) did not play. 


16. 
Connecticut (17-3) did not play. 

17. 
UNLV (16-4) vs. No. 24 Fullerton State. 

18. 
Northwestern (12-5) did not play. 

19. 
Clemson (15-5) did not play. 

20. 
Notre Dame (15-3) did not play. 

21. 
Providence (19-3) beat Georgetown 128-114. 


Pts 63 61 60 54 51 44 
70 66 52 52 31 
Pts 72 69 53 43 33 
65 6t 57 48 43 
teams fared 

First Period--1, Minnesota, Gagner 30 (Tioordl, Broten), 11 :09 (pp). 2, Minnesota, Berezan 6 (Smhh, Johnson), 12:13. Second Period--3, Montreal, McPhee 11 (Courtnall, Carbonneau), 2:05. 4, Montreal, McPhee 12 (Carbonneau, Courtnall), 8:07. Third Period-S, Montreal, Courtnall 19 (McPhee, Carbonneau), 8:09. 6, Montreal, Turgeon 5 (Cassels, Chorske), 9:54. 7, Minnesota, Smith 13 (Glynn), 18:59. 8, Montreal, McPhee 13 (Gilchrist), 19:25 (en). Shots on goal-Minnesota 8-7-16-31. Montreal 10-13-11-34. Goalies-Minnesota, Hayward. Montreal, Racicot. A-16,104. 
Savage, center, from Baltimore of the International Hockey League. Waived Bob Joyce, left wing, for the purpose of sending him to Baltimore. 
SOCCER Major Soccer League WICHITA WING&-Fired Terry Nicholl, coach. Named Roy Turner interim coach. American Soccer League 
FORT LAUDERDALE STRIKERs-Agreed to terms with Tony Meola, goalie, on a one­year contract. 

22. 
Florida State (14-4) lost to South Carolina 92-91, 20T. 

23. 
Michigan State (15-4) did not play. 

24. 
Fullerton State (16-4) at No. 17 UNLV. 

25. 
Stephen F. Austin (15-3) did not play. 


GF 
197 235 186 198 173 155 
204 191 154 185 155 
GF 
181 211 189 172 156 
221 216 181 187 169 
Monday: 
GA 
171 20.3 174 183 185 190 
178 168 180 181 240 
GA 
141 170 206 197 226 
170 171 166 200 216 

SPRING BRL~K I• VA.~A.MA. CIIT (jiACil i r=LCVIIJA ~ 

LUB
Spend Spring Break in I' Panama City for Only$199 ' 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
' 
AND 

~ Bus transportation and seven 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 
'f' nights beach front hotel included. ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT
' 

THE INFORMATION DESK IN
~l' Sponsored by N.D. Student Union ~ Board and Travelmore. Stop by 
LAFORTUNE 
?t~ desk on 2nd Floor LaFortune or 
' 

l call 239-7668 for rnore info. APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
' 

MARCH 1, 1991
'--------------------' ~------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, February 5, 1991 The Observer Page 15 
Threat of terrorism prompts tight security for NBA All-Star game 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Metal detectors, additional po­lice officers and searches will be reminders of the Persian Gulf War for basketball fans attending NBA All-Star game events this weekend at the Charlotte Coliseum. 
"Things will be a little differ­ent and it's going to be more inconvenient," Steve Camp, the coliseum's manager, said Monday. "But we believe people will understand these measures need to be taken and they will cooperate." 
The beefed-up security mea­sures announced at an after­noon news conference were nearly identical to those im­posed at last month's Super Bowl in Tampa, Fla. Security has been tightened in the wake of Iraqi threats to commit ter­rorism because of the Mideast fighting. 
Fans attending Sunday's All­Star game and other events, in­cluding the slam-dunk and three-point shooting contests on Saturday, will encounter metal detectors and X-ray de­vices at all entrances to the building. 
In addition, rules barring um­brellas, bottles and cans have been extended to include portable radios, television sets, camcorders, cameras and other electronic devices. 
Roadblocks will be set up to prevent vehicles from getting close to the coliseum. Those ve­hicles that are cleared to pass the barricades will be subject to searches, officials said. 
Officials were quick to point out that all of the measures were preventive. 
"We do not have any intelli­gence information from any of the agencies assisting us to cause us to believe anything has been planned," Charlotte police chief Ron Stone said. 
However, the efforts took on new meaning Monday after au­thorities in Norfolk, Va., found six pipe bombs attached to two huge chemical tanks several miles from the Norfolk Naval Base, which has sent more than 35,000 sailors to Operation Desert Storm. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombs. 
Charlotte police are working closely with the FBI and other federal and state agencies on the security plan. 
"Fans need not be concerned about their safety. Security is our responsibility at the local level and we will take all neces­sary steps to assure the safety of the public," said Don Steger, assistant city manager. 

Stone said additional off-duty police officers have been hired to work at the coliseum events, which also include a Stay in School jamboree for 17,000 area public school students on Saturday afternoon. 
Other precautions will not be divulged, he said. Steger said he did not believe the actions were excessive. 
"I don't see any reason for people to have heightened anxi­ety," he said. 
"On the other hand, we plan to be proactive ... We feel we have taken appropriate actions." 
American ExpressAnnounces AGreat New Travel Program 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express® Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place you'd like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick ofmore than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, therrls no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arril'i1lg soon 
Compl~t ttrms and condluons o( this uavel aftr will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this alec. American Elpress assumes no liability for Continental Airlines' performance. 101991 American Express Travel Related Se-rvices Compan): Inc 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa· tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
• 
-

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
Women's tennis goes to 3-0 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team began the 1991 spring season on a strong note, winning three away matches this past weekend. 
On Friday, the Irish blanked Furman 9-0. Leading the way was first singles player Tracy Barton, who won by a 6-1, 6­2 score. Melissa Harris, Lisa Tholen, Terri Vitale, Kim Pacella, and Katie Clark all posted impressive singles victories. The doubles teams of Harton/Pacella, Ann Bradshaw/Tholen, and Clark/Kristy Doran played strong matches in completing the sweep of Furman. 
The Irish, ranked second in the region, had a key match on Saturday, taking on Wisconsin, ranked fourth regionally. The Badgers, however, could not keep up with the Irish. Tracy Barton defeated Elaine Demetroulis 3­6, 6-3, 6-3, as the team took four of the six singles matches and two of three doubles contests. 
Coach Jay Louderback said, "I thought our win over Wisconsin was very good. They are a strong team. For us to win 6-3 at Wisconsin, I was really pleased. All of our kids rose up and played well." 
Senior captain Kim Pacella added, "I think we did excep­tionally well. Winning at Wisconsin and without Christy [Faustmann] was a real chal­lenge. We proved ourselves this weekend." 
Faustmann, ranked 43rd among college players, is still out due to mononucleosis. She did not make the trip, and her status is uncertain at the pre­sent. The Irish showed their depth in overcoming her ab­sence and posting the Victory, and then closed out the weekend road trip with a strong performance on Sunday. The team dropped only the first doubles match in overpowering Marquette 8-1. 
The Irish, (3-0), are focused this season, and a possible NCAA tournament bid is in the cards. With a grueling schedule ahead of them, it was important that the team start off well. 
Vitale said, "It was a great way to start off the season. Everyone was mentally ready and I think we all played really well." 
Pacella summed up the team's enthusiasm and potential, adding, "Saturday [at Wisconsin] was probably the best I've seen any Irish team play in the four years I've been here. If this 

Giant's Taylor arrested in Hawaii 
the NFC in the Pro Bowl, police 
HONOLULU (AP) -New York 
said.
Giants linebacker Lawrence 
The taxi driver got out of his 
Taylor was arrested Sunday 
car and hit Taylor's car with anight for allegedly hitting a car metal pipe, police said. Taylorwith a metal pipe after a traffic got out of his car, took the pipeaccident, police said. 
from the man and hit the rear end of the cab, police said. 
Taylor, 31, was charged with Neither driver was injured,misdemeanor criminal property police said. 
damage and released on $50 The cab driver, whose namebail, police said. 
was not immediately available,Taylor was involved in an al­was charged with misdemeanor 
tercation after his rental car 
terroristic threatening and
collided with a taxi near 
criminal property damage. HeHonolulu Airport at 9:45 p.m., 
was released after posting $50 a few hours after he played for 
Women 
continued from page 20 
ing, and at times pathetic ­
some of the girls could not even 
shoot from outside 10 feet. 
"Probably the biggest thing that hurts us is that everyone has seen a high school basket­ball game. It's not that pretty," McGraw said. "Most people that have seen high school bas­ketball have not watched a Division I basketball game. 1 think they would be surprised at the level of play here." 
While the style of play is dif­ferent than the men's game ­no high-flying acrobatics, no windmill dunks, no seven-foot­ers battling for post position-it is no less entertaining. 
"It's not the fast-paced game you get with a Loyola Marymount, but what you do have is a Notre Dame team which is a quick, run-and-press type of team, which is exciting to watch," Assistant Sports Information Director Rose Pietrzak said. 

• In Scholl's opinion, there is no attendance problem per se. ' "While there are a few schools that are doing extremely well, 1 don't think we're that far behind most schools," Scholl said. The figures appear to back up Scholl. Texas's Lady Longhorns, until recently, outdrew its men's program, and Tennessee (4,918 per game), Stanford (3,319) and Louisiana Tech (2,202) are among the "giants" of NCAA women's basketball. However, other successful schools are struggling to get people to the games, including St. Joseph's (710), UCLA (600), and USC (834). 
Furthermore, Irish home at­tendance has almost doubled in two years from 391 per game in the 1988-89 season to to­day's 712 average. Much of this improvement, though, is due to the athletic department's tar­geting the off-campus commu­nity for support, partly because of student apathy, but also be­cause of reality. 
"The main problem is that students have a real lack of time, the inability to do every­thing," Conboy said. "We have a realization that there is a lot going on on campus, and you can't just appeal to the under­graduates to do everything. So we are trying to go out to the comifmnity a lot more." 
"The most significant thing we're doing is focusing on groups, large blocks of people coming in and checking the sport out," Scholl said. Among the promotions is an upcoming Niles Night February 19 for residents to celebrate local product Andrea Alexander. 
"We've also enhanced the presentation of the game it­self," Scholl continued. "Because women's basketball is relatively new, we can try inno­vative things we can't attempt with the men's program. We're trying to add to the entertain­ment value of the package." 
But the most important part of the package is a successful basketball team to watch. The Irish have done their part. It's up to the community now to show some recognition of its achievements so far. 
"I think it's going to take a little bit more of a bandwagon approach," Pietrzak said. "Maybe we do have to beat Tennessee (Saturday night) to get the student support, be­cause we've already done enough." 
bail, police said. 

ESPN's Chris Berman wins his first Sportscaster of the Year award 
SALISBURY, N.C. (AP)-Chris Berman of ESPN and Peter Gammons of The Boston Globe were selected Monday for the second straight year by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association. 
Berman, 35, received sportscaster of the year honors and Gammons, 45, won sportswriter of the year award for his work with Sports Illustrated by the association, which will hold its 1990 awards program on April 29. 
Gammons, who currently works for ESPN, also does two columns a week for The Boston Globe. 
"We won seven ACE awards, Chris won his first ACE and now this," said Chris LaPlace, ESPN vice president of com­munications. "What he was most pleased with was that it was voted on by his peers. Anytime the people who do the same thing you do give you an honor, it's a good feeling." 
No drugs or alcohol were in­volved, police said. Berman began his career as a Taylor was ordered to appear radio announcer at a Westerly, in Honolulu District Court on R.I., station. One year later, he Feb. 7, police said. went to a radio station in 
Waterbury, Conn., calling high school football games and co­hosting a sports talk show. 
His first broadcasting position came while he was a student at Brown, serving as sports director for WBRU radio, doing play-by-play on baseball, basketball, football and ice hockey. He also assisted NBC Sports telecasts in New England. 
Berman's first television ex­posure came in 1979, when he joined WVIT-TV in Hartford, Conn., as a weekend sports an­chor. In October 1979, he was hired by ESPN, one UJ.Onth after its inception. 
Currently, Berman is host for ESPN's NFL coverage and a play-by-play announcer for the network's major league base­ball coverage. 
Gammons, a University of North Carolina graduate, is a regular contributor to ESPN's baseball coverage. He was a senior writer for Sports Illustrated from 1986 through last year. Gammons also cov­ered hockey and college bas­ketball for Sports Illustrated. 

Australia snags first-round Davis Cup win 
(AP) Australia, confident after a first-round knockout of Belgium, has issued a b-old challenge to the rest of the Davis Cup field. 
"We are ready to play any team anywhere on any sur­face," Australian captain Neil Fraser said after his second­seeded team completed a 5-0 sweep Sunday in the World Group first-round match at Perth. 
That is a big change from the 1990 Davis Cup final, when Australia complained when the United States installed a red clay court in a St. Petersburg, Fla.. facility. The Australians then complained of the slow surface and the fact the United States, which went on to win the international team tennis ti-
Irish 
continued from page 20 
upperclassman." 
Said Zadra, in praise of Louder, "We know if we don't allow {the opposition) re­bounds, we know they won't score a goal." 
The difference on Saturday night was defense, according to Zadra. 
"We played better in our de­fensive zone," said the junior, "and Greg (Louder) made every save." 
Schafer was especially happy with his team's ability to bounce back from a tough loss tle, doesn't usually play on red clay. 

The Australia-Belgium match was one of many first-round tournaments played around the world as Davis Cup action con­tinued despite the threat of ter­rorism. 
Germany, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Argentina and Spain also completed first­round victories on Sunday. 
Two World Group matches ­the United States at Mexico and Israel at France -were post­poned because of the threat of terrorism and tentatively rescheduled for March 29-31. 
Six zonal matches were post­poned because of the Persian Gulf War: Bahrain-Bangladesh, Sri Lanka-Syria, Singapore-
Friday night. 

"(Coming back on Saturday) said something. Hard work fi­nally paid off." 
The offensive output gave reason to be optimistic, espe­cially with the crucial part of the season approaching. 
"We had a couple of goals over the weekend that have highlight film possibilities, and (some other) very good at­tempts on goal," said Schafer. 
At least one Irish player thinks the increased production has to do with the line combi­nations really starting to jell. 
"My two wingers have been playing well," said Janicke, who is back playing his more comfortable center spot. 
former mentor's Hoosiers is so strong that when the Irish play
World 

their cross-state rivals at home the Joyce ACC is enveloped in a
continued from page 20 

sea of red sweaters? and his team has made the Whether you like Phelps or Final Four in three of the past not, you have to face the facts. 
four seasons. He is coaching in Krzyzewski is not coming to North Carolina, where the 
Notre Dame. Tobacco Road citizenry considers basketball a second religion. Speaking of the Hoosiers, did Why would he want to come anybody think Bob Knight's to Indiana, where loyalty to his 
Kuwait and Malaysia-Saudi Arabia in the Asia-Oceania group, and Egypt-Senegal and Algeria-Ivory Coast in the African Zone. 
Richard Fromberg and Wally Masur completed Australia's easy weekend with singles vic­tories. Fromberg, the top­seeded Australian, beat Eduardo Masso 6-3, 1-6. 6-3. and Masur beat Filip Dewulf 6­1, 6-2. Both reverse singles were reduced to three sets after Australia clinched the match the day before. 
Australia will face either Israel or France in the next round. 
Meanwhile. Boris Becker and Michael Stich led Germany to a 3-2 victory over Italy in Dortmund. 
"(David) Bankoske makes all pf his linemates better, and Pat Arendt's line is coming to­gether." 
Zadra thinks the offense is here to stay. 
"Putting up six and four goals on the road... We're confident we can score." 
With six games left, Notre Dame is thinking big. 
"Hopefully we'll win the rest," Zadra said, a thought echoed by Janicke. 
"We want to win the next six." 
The Irish are off until Friday, when they take on Division III power Wisconsin-Stevens Point at the Joyce ACC. 
troops would be 20-2 at this point of the season and tied for first place in the Big 10? Although UNLV may be des­tined for the NCAA title this year, the Hoosiers are return­ing such stars as Eric Anderson, Calbert Cheaney and Damon Bailey, and when Knight has players of that cal­iber on the court he is almost a shoo-in to bring another cham­pionship banner back to Bloomington. 

----~--­
The Observer 
page 17 Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
Irish wrestlers dominated by powerful Iowa squad 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
There are good teams and there are powerhouses. 
That seemingly inane distinction was physically emblazoned on the Notre Dame wrestling team this past weekend. courtesy of the second-ranked Iowa Hawkeyes. Notre Damn. 3-5-1, had travelnd to Iowa City in search of respnctability and a chance to toughen up. Instead. the Irish suffered a tragic road loss hf'forn 4,153 spectators in one of the most hostile environmnnts in the sports world. 
"It was ugly," said Notre Dame coach Fran McCann. "They were so extremely physical that we could only hang tough for a period. We just couldn't handle them physically. The night bflfore they beat us, they beat Illinois and Northwestern just as badly." 
Yet the physical pounding which the Irish endured was not what worried McCann the most. 
''I'm really disappointed because I thought that we were ready for this kind of challenge when we were not," confessed McCann. "We were not mentally tough enough for that level of competition and we were unable to maintain our intensity for seven minutes. Also, we lost to a couple of guys that I thought we were better than. But in most cases, we were simply outmanned." 
"The way we wrestled was not indicative of the team we have. We are better than we showed, but we just did not wrestle up to it." 
At 118 pounds, freshman Chris Jensen lost by injury just :05 into the second period, as Iowa hurriedly scampered out to a 6-0 edge they would exponentially build on throughout the afternoon. 
Returning national champion Terry Brands, top-ranked at 126 pounds, scored a technical 
College stars report to NFL combine 
Ismail, Stonebreaker, Lyght are all expected to attend 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -All­America or all-conference honors mean nothing. 
It's time for last season's col­lege football stars to be poked, prodded. interviewed and scmen11d with big bucks on the line this week during the annual NFL scouting combine. 
A record group of about 460 NFL hopefuls have been invited for physicals. psychological in­tmviews and workouts in a fi­nal bid to persuade representa­tives of the 28 NFL teams that thny desnrve a chance to be pieked in the draft April 21-22. 
Among some of the players at­tending will be Miami defensive tackle Russell Maryland, Notre Dame linebacker Michael Stonbreaker and cornerback Todd Lyght and Florida linebackflr Huey Richardson. 
Whilfl some carry more im­pressive credentials than others, all of the participants share a dream of playing in the NFL next season. 
"We've expanded to invite some 100 to 120 more players than we have in the past," said Duke Babb, director of National Football Scouting. which has coordinated the combine in recent years. "We've added another day so that the larger group can be accommodated." 
The process begins Wednesday when linemen and kickers arrive. Workouts end Sunday when running backs, wideouts and quarterbacks get the opportunity to display their speed, agility and talent. 
For the first time, under­classmen who gave up their college eligibility in pursuit of big bank accounts have been invited to the combine. Among those scheduled to participate are Notre Dame's Raghib "Hocket" Ismail, USC quarter­back Todd Marinovich and Virginia wide receiver Herman Moore. 
"We've been a little limited 

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. ann.ounces the opening South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self·knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
Jeff Burgfechtel's 3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Option 1: Daytona Beach $179 Base Price ~ Bus Transportation 
$274.00 
Option II: South Padre Island $239 Base Price .t...12Q_Bus Transportation 
$359.00 
Trip Includes: 
• 
Eight Days/Seven Nights on the Daytona Beach Strip or on South Padre Island 

• 
free pool deck parties with refreshments 

• 
All taxes and tips 

• 
Optional side excursions 


LAST CHANCE SIGN-UP: TUES. FEU 12 MONTGOMERY THEATER or rail 
LaFORTUNE 7pm .JENNIFEtt .JEH:\tANo 
2R·I·50Hi 

with the underclassmen," Babb said. "They had a deadline of Feb. 1 to let the NFL know they wanted to be available for the draft. and we did not invite anyone from that group until the league approved their par­ticipation. Some of them are in­volved in classes and may be unable to get here on short no­tice." 
Babb said that underclassmen and any others unable to par­ticipate due to injury could be invited to another workout. 
"If some prospects fall through the cracks here, we'll see that they have another op­portunity," Babb said. "We've usually had a re-check oppor­tunity for those who had physi­cal problems when they came to the combine. For the first time we'll probably have workouts, and we're looking at Kansas City for a site since there is an enclosed facility for workouts there." 
fall over twelfth-ranked Marcus Gowens, as Notre Dame watched its chances slip away. Terry's twin brother Tom Brands, also a top-ranked returning national champion, pinned Brian Foy at 134 pounds. 
The Hawkeyes' other brother combination -Troy and Terry Steiner -major-decisioned Jamie Boyd (142) and pinned Todd Layton (150), respectively. Rounding out the other Irish matches, sophomore Emil Soehnlen (158) lost by technical fall. Mark Gerardi (167) was pinned, J.J. McGrew (177) lost on account of injury, Steve King 
(190) fell 3-2 in a narrow decision, and heavyweight Curt Engler was major-decisioned. 

Fortunately for the Irish. their worst defeat in 10 years may potentially help them to fare better against their remaining opponents 8th-rankfld Nebraska, Oklahoma, Illinois. and Indiana. 
''I'm just at a loss of words about how to get the team go­ing and get motivated again," observed McCann. "We tried everything to prepare for Iowa. so figuring out how to get baek up will be a difficult task. Of course, our primary concern is that we heal up. Whatever hap­pens this season, we do not want to lose Chris Jensen and 
J.J. McGrew to injuries. "It's all mental now." 

Olympic Commission to visit South Africa 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -South Africa competing in the 1992 Olympics is "not out of the question," International Olympic Committee vice presi­dent Kevan Gosper said today. 
Gosper said he will visit South Africa next month as a member of the IOC Apartheid Commission. The group will measure progress in removing racial barriers in sport. 
The commission will report its findings to the IOC Executive Board in April, with a recom­mendation to be considered by the full IOC in Birmingham, England, in June. 
"One can't rule out the possi­bility that South Africa will compete in Barcelona," Gosper said, referring to the 1992 Summer Games. 
His comments followed South African President F.W. de Klerk's weekend announcement that he would dismantle apartheid by the end of the year. 
Australian Prime Minister Bob 


PRING BflijU<91•
':;,..'tJ-.?
ORGANIZE A SMALL GROUP · //~-4i,1 
AND TRAVIL PAtE.~ 

BAHAMAS/ -I f 
CANCUN 
FROM$299 
COMPI.!Ti PACKAGE INCLUDES; 
• 
~dl to Nossau!Pctcdso lrlcnd cw Ccna.n Mexico. 

• 
Rcu-odlr'c> IICnslon ~em c:Wpcrt to hotel. a 7 ~hotel OCCOI'I"'IT'\\Ccrrtcna. 

• 
Wetcane n.m rwlzzl• paty ct mest holoiLCI'aDoY) 


• 
1Hour""' O'lcacul or Toc;uio (CQnCUI) paty. 

• 
l Hcur c:Mo with uMnaod rum porch Cl"''d on boctd entertcnnent. rNassau/Pcn:dlle blc:nd) 

• 
lllooch porflos Cone with floe U"chl music Cl"ldoc!Mift.CI'aDoYl 


• 
&o.alvo OCrnialon to !too Pdcco. Wafeffoo Ccioeum. ond D....eect HcloUNcuou) 

• 
~· '"""" pn:>Q"cms by !too Bc:noma


~oMc:e. 
• On 10canon proressicrd t()U' ete:crt. 

I 
(800)BEACH 


Hawke has said he hopes sporting sanctions will be among the first to be lifted and that it was "not unrealistic" that Australia could play South Africa in cricket next year. But Gosper warned that South Africa's return to the sports world must be orderly and ac­ceptable to each of more than 100 international sporting bod­ies. 
The IOC would "expect to take the lead" in deciding when South Africa should again compete internationally, he said. 
Whether South Africa went to Barcelona "would all depend on the orderly processes we are setting in place," he added. 
Gosper said high-profile sports such as rugby and cricket must not be allowed to jeopardize the process by mov­ing too hastily to restore con­tact. 
"Leading South African sports from nearly a quartflr of a cen­tury of darkness does not lend itself to the quick fix," he said. 
-

"There are entrenched posi­tions that are not easily changed. Further. more than 100 international sporting fed­erations are involved. 
"We need to make sure that each one of these federations accepts in an orderly manner a unified South African affiliate that no longer recognizes radal and non-racial sporting groups. 
~--------------­
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1991 
USC investigates reported cheating on drug tests 
LOS ANGELES (AP) ­Southern Cal athletic director Mike McGee disputed a pub­lished report that there is sys­tematic cheating on drug tests by Trojan football players. 
The Los Angeles Times, citing its own two-week investigation, reported Sunday that it had learned of a pattern in which some USC football players reg­ularly cheated on their drug tests. Players reportedly de­vised elaborate schemes to sub­stitute "clean" urine for their own and also by using masking drugs. 
"Although we reject the notion that there is systematic cheat­ing going on in our drug testing program -rather, the Los Angeles Times was drawing upon isolated incidents -we have formed a committee, in­cluding experts in testing from outside the university, to review the program," McGee said in a statement released by the school. 

"USC has used medical techni­cians in sample collection. And in addition, when we heard that an athlete may have cheated, we assigned the department's drug testing administrator -Marvin Cobb, who is highly knowledgeable in all aspects of drug education and testing -to directly observe the collection of the sample for that athlete. He observed no cheating." 
The Times began its investiga­tion after former USC quarter­back Todd Marinovich was ar­rested on Jan. 20 on charges of misdemeanor cocaine and marijuana possession. 
At the time of his arrest, Marinovich was on indefinite suspension from the team for not registering for spring semester classes and missing a team meeting. 
On Friday, Marinovich an­nounced he will pass up his fi­nal two years of eligibility in order to make himself available for the NFL draft in April. Marinovich will be arraigned on the drug charges on Feb. 11. 
Two days after Marinovich's arrest in Newport Beach, USC formed a task force to investi­gate drug testing at the school. The group, chosen by McGee, has yet to offer any recommen­dations. 
McGee acknowledged in the 

Baseball Hall of Fame voters decide to exclude banned players; Rose is silent 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Pete Rose still expects to be in baseball's Hall of Fame someday and isn't disturbed, at a vote Monday that will make it harder for him to get there, according to a close friend. 
Rose declined to be inter­viewed Monday after the Hall of Fame's board voted unani­mously to exclude banned play­ers from the ballot. Rose, who accepted a lifetime ban in 1989 for illegal gambling, is the only living person on the perma­nently ineligible list. 
The vote means Rose won't be on the Hall of Fame ballot un­less he's reinstated. He would have been on the ballot for the first time this year. 
Rose, who is serving 1,000 hours of community service at inner-city elementary schools for cheating on his taxes, didn't have much to say about the vote Monday. 
''I'm not in control of that, so there's not much I can do about it. I did my part," he said as he left an elementary school. 
Baseball's all-time hits leader then left in a car. He didn't stop to talk as he returned to a halfway house where he's ful­filling a three-month term. 
But one of Rose's close friends said baseball's all-time hits leader wasn't surprised or upset at the board vote. 
"He wasn't really depressed over it or anything," said Jeff Ruby, a business partner of Rose's. "He just feels confident he's going to be reinstated. That's the reason why it's not upsetting him that much." 

The Hall of Fame has been one of Rose's main concerns throughout baseball's investi­gation of his gambling and fed­eral authorities' handling of his tax case. 
When he pleaded guilty to hid­ing income on his taxes last summer and was sentenced to prison, Rose made a point to stress his credentials for the Hall of Fame. 
He spent five months at a fed­eral prison camp in Illinois be­fore returning to Cincinnati last month to serve the rest of his sentence -the three months at a halfway house and commu­nity service as a gym teachers' assistant in the public schools. 
Rose accepted the lifetime ban from baseball as part of an agreement with former Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti, who made no formal finding whether Rose bet on baseball or his Cincinnati Reds teams. Giamatti later said he believed Rose had bet on base­ball, the one allegation that Rose continues to deny. 
Rose can apply for reinstate­ment at any time, but has given no indication when he may do so. A source close to Rose has indicated it won't be until his federal tax sentence is com­pleted. 
"He thinks he'll be reinstated becl}use baseball's agreement with his suspension from base­ball -the agreement they both signed -is they did not find that he bet on baseball," Ruby said. "Also, because I think he's a very confident person. The same confidence that got him to be the greatest hitter in the history of baseball is demon-
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Come have the best summer of your lifeI Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience living in the awesome Rocky Mountains brings. St. Mary Lodg_e &Resort, Glacier Park's best, now hiring
-
for the 1991 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services February 7th and 8th. Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now, or call
-
1-800-368-3689 Don't pass up the opportunity of alifetimeI 
strated in this." 
Although Rose had little public reaction Monday, his public was upset with the board vote. One local television station gave the Hall of Fame's address so viewers could express their dis­agreement. The station's an­chorman finished his report about the vote by saying, "It's absurd." 
Several members of the Baseball Writers Association have said Rose at least de­served to have his name on the ballot. 
"I just think it's wrong." said Mike Augustin of the Saint Paul Pioneer Press. "It's like taking the presidential vote away from the people because they voted in Nixon. 
article that he was alerted to a possible cheating problem more than a year ago. 
"We heard in the fall of '89 that one of our athletes may have cheated on a test -not how it was done," McGee told the Times. "At that point, we put into motion what we thought were some extra pre­cautions that involved, in addi­tion to a technician, a univer­sity administrator to be an ob­server." 
McGee also acknowledged that Marinovich's arrest was the impetus to form the task force. That concern was echoed by Cobb, assistant athletic director and the administrator of USC's drug-testing program. 
"After Todd's arrest, I re­ceived several phone calls from current and former student athletes," Cobb told the Times. "They felt bad at what hap­pened to Todd. And they felt guilty to a certain extent and wanted to make me aware of things that were going on at the point of collection by a small group of athletes. 
"It actually fit with my suspi­cions. There were lots of ru­mors and there seemed to be cause to be suspicious." 
Even before Marinovich's ar­rest, Cobb said he had planned to change the collection proce­dure. Primarily, he was going to make sure that athletes were not hiding foreign urine. 
According to the Times, word among USC football players is that USC's testing procedure was lax and could be beaten. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•THE 
NO CRICKET CLUB will have practice Wednesday, February 6 at 11 p.m. in Loftus. All students and faculty are encouraged to attend and bring equipment. For information, call Marko x3419 or Tim x1556. 

•IN 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BASKETBALL semifinal action on Sunday, in the "A" division, Breen-Phillips defeated Howard 31­22 and Lewis beat PW 37-30. In the "B" league, Siegfried downed Lyons 52-19 and PW beat BP 28-16. 

•OFF-CAMPUS 
LACROSSE -Anyone interested in planning call Mike or Pete at 287-2218, no talent necessary. 

•THE 
HAPKIDO CLUB meets Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 


p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
•STUDENTS 
INTERESTED in 1991 Bengal Bouts promotions should attend at meeting at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 13 in the Boxing Room at the JACC. 

•BODY 
FAT TESTING will be held on Wednesday form 7-9 


p.m. in the football auditorium of the JACC, free of charge, sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics. 
It's not too early to order somethingfor ¥alentine's 1Jay. • h Last dayfor orders is Tuesday, February 12. 12:30 to 5:30 Mon-Sat Basement of LaFortune We deliver to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Campuses Visa/Mastercard accepted ~,/, 283-4242 4"'&1•  



Tuesday, February 5, 1991 T11a Obsr;;-..,;er
-----------·--··~:___________________ page 19 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 

You never see It coming 
Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. Film: "Pepe Le Moko," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
7 p.m. Film: "Hiroshima Mon Amour," Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
7 p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass. Log Chapel. 
7 p.m. Faculty Senate. Room 202, Center for Continu­ing Education. 
9 p.m. Film: "Every Man for Himself," Annenherg Audi­torium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucine Alfredo Cloverleaf Rolls 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Turkey w/cornbread stuffing Sweet & Sour pork w/ rice Hungarian Noodle Bake Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\lt.~ \:»-0, ~00 kNOW 1-\0v.l iO-.l Wfl...l'l\U) !<\£. 'TO SHOIJE.L 
NE tlR\'lt.'t-1/lo.~ ? _ _,.,_ __..,._. 
Will l nbJ.;I-\T UP fl... BETTER IOEI\' 
BILL WATTERSON 
1'Ll 'S\.lOIJtl. 11-NO PK¥:. II£ ~W It-® />.. BIG ~MP.' ~QIJ CAl-l GEl \~ T\\E G.R, ?£\j \l? 10 ~t:AR ~ Ui'l£, T\\~ OJT 11\E CUJKI-\, lt:P·:..Jt. fl... Pf>.TQ\ Of MOL\t.i'l RIJB~R OJT 'Wt. G~Gt., ANO ZC/::J:IIIJP n\E 
t.JI~ ~MP.' \I~/."\ ....... ~ 0 
:::>. ~ "J 

. IIIDI>I 
tlr.f.Arlo/1/AL FtA I? OF Some /111tl-8S THM IN nte !YIIDOI.c OF ~ LE:CTVRE: HIIU. PIICKr:D wtfr.t HOT ~BES, THEil? BRAIN WILL tNIIOLVN111Rtt.Y TRt6161Y? THf.l(r. LeG>S /0 ST11?10 /I'N() metR fl'I0Vn4 ro EXC/.Itt{Y) THAT W/I.LJ/U>1 5HkrNE.Fr. 15 II F!A/Ei llc.roR 
IT'S O.K. rofl, 6>fl.OwN /I'IBfV 1lJ PI./I'( WIOI SUtR 1\/A-ii!S ftcrwv Fl6.· !Jtfl/1181i , liND 171/tT TlfG'( 50fYIG11Mes 111/~S T'Hf-11. IYI OfY\fYl'( 50 f\'ll.iCH THIn" /H'b'f C.f'l.Y REA'L 

63 Ripped 64"-for 
Adana" 65 Was indebted 66 The libido 67 Wahine's patio 68 Helper 69 Dubas or Coty 70 Capital of 
Nidwalden, Switzerland 
DOWN 
fArrow part 2 Leaner at Pisa 3 Flub 4 Second U.S. 
President 5 Decrease 6 Suburbanite's 
pride 70foil 8 Letter after gee 9 Reindeer in 20 
Across to Fold hidden under Santa's 
31 "-we
beard? 
forget ..." 
t t Kind of code 32 In the distance 
t2Col 13 Tolkien creature 33 Risk 21 Birthplace of 34 Bit of gossip 
Karl Marx 35 Van Gogh's22 Bradley and brother Sharif 37 Haggard work 
26lce or six follower 38 The Magi made 28 Gypsy that flies one 29 Cougar 41 Young, 30 Bedouin 
snakelike fish headband cord 42 Homeric epic 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~'Ei 
1-7+~~ 
f=+::+.:-t=~ 
Et:+.:::+.::+.::-1 
8=+::-t:=:+::::-i 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ACROSS 
t Great bargain 
6 Cargo 
to Play tricks 
t4 Multitude on the move ts Albanian president t6 Mediterranean port f7 Polonius hid behind one f8Anti­Prohibitionists t9 Mae or Nathanael 20 "A Visit--": 
Moore 
23 More concise 
24 Sci. course 
25 Pinch 
27 Flutist Jean-Pierre 

32 Mine entrance 36 Whence the Magi came 39 Paris's Moulin 
40 Santa Claus, in London 43 Whirling 44 Ship part 45 Sentry's command 46 Take off 48 Goat's offspring so Apiece 53 Charge liquid with gas 
58 Oldest printed song for Yuletide 
62"­
Yesterday," 
1950 film 
SPELUNKER 

zlCOLL£ G!IITE. f'1!1LI/01£5 off 3£ 

47 Kind of egg or lily 49 Transfer pictures st Task 52 Wading bird 54 Morocco's capital ss Kind of theater 
56 A colorless 
hydrocarbon 57 New York island 58 Orange or 
Sugar 59 Oka River city 60 Gump or Hardy 61 Handle, in 
Amiens 62 Feathered scarf 

And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. 
Send to: 
Name 
The Observer 
Address
P.O.Box Q 
City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Sports
page 20 Tuesday, February 5, 1991 

Irish women drop to 20th; face Loyola of Chicago 
By RENE FERRAN "(Sherry) is scoring a lot of "It shows us we have to work Sports Writer points now, and I think that a lot harder, that we can't take game has given her a lot of anyone for granted," McGraw Although the Notre Dame confidence," Irish coach Muffet said. "It's going to be key for 
women's basketball team McGraw said. "We're going to the game tonight. They (Loyola) dropped a notch to 20th in this have to double-down on her." have been playing really well week's Associated Press poll, it Other leading Ramblers include ever since we beat them1 and was the only setback the team Cindy Pruim (14.1 ppg, 5.8 rpg, their season has really turned has faced recently. .438 three-point percentage) around." 
The Irish (15-3, 10-0), riding and Stephanie Schink (11. 9 the crest of a 14-game winning ppg). After Loyola, the Irish travel streak, face the Loyola In their first game, Notre to Knoxville to take on third­
Ramblers tonight at 7:30 p.m. Dame opened up a 36-14 half­ranked Tennessee February 9th in a Midwestern Collegiate time lead and then coasted in what will be their biggest Conference contest. An through the second half, allow­game of the year. While it interestin sidelight to tonight's ing Loyola to cut the margin to would be natural for Notre 
gam · t ~ior forward within 10 late in the game be­Dame to look past the Ramblers 
2 si Davis is Within three fore running out of time. toward Saturday evening, / points of reaching t~ Last Saturday afternoon, the McGraw is confident that the ~ point plateau for her career. -Irish came back from a six­Irish are focused on tonight's 
Loyola (5-12, 4-4) has won point deficit in the second half game. four of its last five games since to post its 34th consecutive 
losing to Notre Dame, 66-55, conference victory, 73-56, over "I think that it is hard, espe­January 15 in Chicago. Sherry Evansville. McGraw believes cially at this time in the season, Metz (14.3 ppg, 5.4 rpg) has this come-from-behind effort to look at every game like we're stepped her game up a notch will take care of any compla­playing Tennessee, but that's 
The Observer/David Lee 

since the two teams' first meet­cent attitude her team has con­what we're going to have to The Notre Dame women's basketball team, ranked 20th in the nation 
ing. cerning MCC opponents. do," she said. 
will look to continue its 14-game winning streak tonight at the JACC. 
Hockey snaps road losing streak
·Women's hoops fails to 
By RICH KURZ night for the Irish, just 1:37 "Saturday we were more pre­
attract big crowds. Why? 
Sports Writer into the game. pared to play," said sophomore Although the Irish led for Curtis Janicke. "We had time to •Time constraints -Of the much of the game, it's the score tnink about Friday's game." 

A trip to the high altitude of
11 home games during theMuch has at the end of the game that The game was marred by 30
Colorado Springs, Colo., proved 
school year, only three are
b e e n 

counts. and Air Force was penalties. 16 of which were
to be just what the doctor
on a weekend. This means
written 

ahead when it counted. It tied whistled against the Irish.
ordered for the Irish hockey
that students often cannotabout the 
the game 10 minutes into the Schafer wasn't pleased with the 
team. The Irish split two games
make it to a game because of 
lack of 

final stanza on Ingraham's officiating -he said the Irish
with the Air Force Academy,
a need to study.
attendance 

third goal of the evening, and had a "disproportionate num­
and in so doing snapped their
However, according toat Notre scored the gamewinner with ber of two-man short situa­

1 0-game winless streak on the
Conboy, not much can be just over a minute left in the tions, although we killed them
D a m e By RENEE 

road.
done to remedy these poor
women's 

game. off' -but the Irish were able
After leading 6-5 just a few

basketball FERRAN starting times. In order to 
"We were playing well, we to overcome the officiating, and 
minutes into the third period
games. But Sports Writer fulfill university were winning for 50 minutes," even used it to their advantage. 
Friday night, Notre Dame gave
requirements of missing only has anyone ever stopped to said Irish coach Ric Schafer. The Irish were presented
up two late goals to fall 7-6 to
three school days during theask why? 
'Tm disappointed, but it was a with 14 power-play
the Falcons. Saturday night the 
season, the Irish play at
The team is 15-3, ranked 

hard-fought game." opportunities and converted
Irish bounced back, riding the
home on weeknights and
20th in the country. and yet it Left-wing Lou Zadra felt that five of them into goals, a

goaltending of Greg Louder,
travel on weekends in orderstill only draws 712 people the Irish dug their own grave statistic that pleased Schafer. 
who stopped 38 of 39 shots, en
not to miss classes. 
per game. Obviously, there with defensive lapses. Nevertheless, Notre Dame

route to a 4-1 victory.
•Population base -Let's
must be a myriad of factors "We let in seven rebound was outshot 39-27. and were it

Curtis Janicke continued to

face it: Notre Dame, withwhich leads to the empty goals. That's inexcusable," he not for the continued strong
play well for Notre Dame,
only 7,673 undergraduates,seats: said. goaltending of Louder, the Irish
keeping the Irish in the game
cannot compete with state•Poor quality of opponents ­Notre Dame didn't sit around might have been on the losing
Friday night. He scored the fi­
schools such as Texas and
Membership in the 

feeling sorry for themselves, end again. 
nal goal of the night for Notre
Tennessee.
Midwestern Collegiate however. It came back strong "(He's) outstanding," said

Dame, and assisted on the sec­
"One of the problems weConference is helpful for the Saturday night, literally fighting Schafer. "He really plays like an

ond-to-last goal. Janicke also
have with a number of our
program in terms of 
its way to a 4-1 victory.

notched the first goal of the
Olympic sports programs, 
see IRISH, page 16 including · women's
scheduling and costs, and 

until a better option comes basketball, is that we offer so 
College basketball season highlighted by stellar 
along, Notre Dame should 

many sports," Conboy said.
stick with the MCC. "Now at schools like 
performance from Tarkanian's Runnin' Rebels
But with that said, the Tenhessee, where their
quality of their MCC student population is much 
Some random thoughts on test of the season when they travel to Fayetteville, bigger, there are more opposition is nowhere near 
college hoops. Ark. Sunday to face the second-ranked Arkansas students to appeal to, and that of the Irish. They do not 
There is supposedly no such Razorbacks. Oliver Miller, Todd Day and Lee that makes it much easier to have the money, facilities or 
thing as an unbeatable team in 
Mayberry can match up pretty well with Johnson, put 5,000 people in an prestige that Notre Dame has. 
college basketball. Augmon and Hunt respectively, and Arkansas has arena." 
Assistant Athletic Director 

Villanova proved that in 1985 the added advantage of playing the game atMissy Conboy points out that by playing a near-perfect game home.
•Lack of tradition -Notre

the MCC is taking steps to Dame has had a women's 
in the finals of the NCAA tour­In short, if the Razor backs can't beat UNLV, or at basketball program for just address concerns about MCC 
nament against a Georgetown Ken Tysiac least make it a close game at home in front of a 14 years, and only sincecompetitiveness. 
team that had appeared to be crowd which will surely be deafening, then it is Muffet McGraw became head "The MCC has targeted five 
invincible. The Wildcats held World of Sports doubtful that anybody can do it. If Arkansas can't coach a little over three
sports, including women's 

on for a 66-64 triumph to at least keep within striking distance of the years ago has the team had basketball, as priority sports capture the championship over a Hoya squad Rebels, we might just have to concede thein which schools must meet which featured a starting lineup of Patrick Ewing, championship to Tarkanian 's squad before March consistent 20-win seasons.
certain criteria by the 1991­"It's still a relatively new 
Reggie Williams, David Wingate, Billy Martin and Madness even begins and just play the NCAA1992 academic year," Conboy product," Sports Marketing 
Michael Jackson. tournament for fun. Director Bill Scholl said. "We said. "The criteria includes a This season it appears that there may be a team
mmtmum number of have a tendency to want 

which can't be defeated. Jerry Tarkanian's top­This season has been everything but fun for fans things to work out overnight,scholarships offered (12 for 
ranked Runnin' Rebels of UNLV have won 29 of the Notre Dame basketball team. Irish coach and it just won't happen that 
women's basketball). an 

straight games dating back to last season and are Digger Phelps has taken abuse once again as hisimprovement in the strength 18-0 this year. The Rebels aren't just good. They team has struggled to an 8-13 record two-thirdsway."
of members' schedules, and 
•Perceptions of women's 

are awesome. of the way through the season. quirements." 
full-time coaching re­

basketball -Being the 
Larry Johnson may be the best inside scorer in Phelps isn't going anywhere. Fans should realize product of an all-male 
the nation. Stacy Augmon is certainly the best that by now. But at Saturday's 90-77 loss to Duke, school, I had watched only Also, these teams are defender in the game, and he also does a good job they were nonetheless chanting at Blue Devilcapable of pulling off upsets. 
finishing off the fast break and shooting the coach Mike Krzyzewski, "Coach K. Coach here,"one girls' basketball game inXavier beat Duke earlier this threes. Anderson Hunt distributes the ball well and "We want coach K."
high school, and to beseason, and Butler defeated 
and can bust a zone from the outside as well. And Why do all of these so-called Irish supportersperfectly honest, it was bor-Vanderbilt, so don't believe Tarkanian gnaws on towels better than any coach think that Krzyzewski wants to coach at NotreMCC competition is always an 
see WOMEN, page 16 

in the game. Dame? He has been at Duke for 10 years now, This weekend the Rebels will face their toughest 
oxymoron. 




