
VOL. XXIII NO. 80 MONDAY I JANUARY 28, 1991 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. launches air attack to stop oil spill 
MANAMA. Bahrain (AP) ­A U.S. attack to staunch the world's largest oil spill may stop crude from flowing into the Persian Gulf. but the still­spreading stain will cause grave environment harm and could foul drinking water. 
The spill will slaughter tur­tlns, dolphins, whales, sea eows and birds, according to nxperts and government officials. The fishing industry could b11 ruined for a decade or longer. 
Govnrnments in the area have already written off marine life. Efforts have been eentered on protecting critical desalination plants, which provide two-thirds of the gulf statns' 18 million people with drinking water. 
"We just can't worry about the environment right now," one high-ranking Saudi official said. "It's a choice between clean drinking water and fish. We've got to protect our drinking water first." 
Those efforts could be ham­pered if expected high waves render useless oil booms and other devices. 
The spill, allegedly caused by Iraqi forces at the Sea Island Terminal off the Kuwaiti coast, contains 250­335 million gallons of oil and stretches over an area 35 miles long and 10 miles wide, said Commodore Ken Summers, commander of Canada's gulf forces. Sec­ondary slicks brought the length to about 85 miles. 
The previous record spill was the 176-million-gallon, 1979 Ixtoc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Ixtoc gushed and dissolved into a warm, open body of wa­ter, and did not cause critical environmental damage. 
The previous largest spill in the Persian Gulf took place in 


OPERATION 

DESERT STORM 
• 
Iran reveals peace plan/page 8 

• 
ND students in Washington/ page 8 

• 
Iraq opens borders/ page 9 

• 
Hunt for CBS crew/ page 9 

• 
Home front report/ page 9 


February 1983, when an Iraqi missile hit an offshore Iranian oil platform. Tar from that spill continues to wash up on beaches. 
Gen. H. Norman Schwarz-


At a parliamentary session in Vilinius, Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis accused Soviet authori­ties of abducting two draft-age students and condemned the military occupation of two buildings. 
SUFR asks for results in hiring of new assistant for Office of Minority Affairs 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
Hditor's note: This is the second of a three-part series examining the newly-formed campus minority coalition Students United for Respect and their demands of the Administration. 
To improve present ethnic programs like the Black Studies Program and Latin American Studies, SUFR has demandnd the formation of an Administration committee to work with a SUFR committee in researching ethnic programs at other universities. 
SUFR also demands that a course or courses in these ethnic programs be required b11fore graduation from Notre Dame to ensure that Notre Dame students truly experience cultural diversity. 
The Black Studies Program at Notre Dame has no faculty specifically dedicated to the program or a course-listing of its own, said a SUFR member. All courses taught in the Black Studies Program are cross-listed with another department, and the professors of these courses are members of other departments, this member said. 
A student can only declare Black Studies as a second, not as a first, major and can only take a concentration in Latin American Studies, a SUFR member said. 
Courses like criminology and social problems, which are now taught under the · Black Studies Program, would be more appropriately taught in Sociology, because crime and social problems are common to society, not exclusive to blacks, a SUFR member said 
A 9 percent increase in the number of African-American, Hispanic, or Native American faculty is also demanded by SUFR, which would like to see the number of minority faculty at Notre Dame be increased from its current 1 percent to a 10 percent total, which would equal minority enrollment on campus. 
SUFR members said financial incentives should be used in recruiting and in keeping minority faculty on campus. 
Minority faculty members are very important to minority 
see SUFR I page 1 0 

kopf, commander of Operation Desert Storm, an­nounced Sunday night that 
U.S. warplanes blew up an oil pipeline leading to the terminal to stop Iraq from pumping crude into the gulf from onshore storage tanks holding nearly 600 million gallons. 
It wasn't known whether the Iraqis were still pumping into the gulf from five tankers con­taining 126 million gallons an­chored near the terminal. 
Desalination and electrical plants, oil refineries and petrochemical installations, meanwhile, are scrambling to protect themselves from the approaching goo. Oil booms were placed around plants up and down the coast. 
Ibrahim Al-Muhanna, a top official at Saudi Arabia's Min­istry of Petroleum, said clean­up crews were ready even to use fishing nets to catch glob­ules of crude. 
The Norwegian "anti-pollu­tion" tanker Al Wasit, the first commercial vessel to involve itself in the fight, readied to leave the gulf port of Abu Dhabi. The tanker can swallow a half-mile of slick a day, its owners say. 
Sources in Saudi Arabia said the tanker would protect Saudi Arabia's critical desalination and electrical plant at Jubail. The plant, the biggest in the world, processes 30 million gallons of drinking water a day and is expected to be threatened by the slick in about four days. 
Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates issued announcements to their people, entreating them to be calm. 
Shoppers packed supermar­kets, snapping up stocks of bottled water, already 
Soviet army captain shoots Lithuanian 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) -A Soviet army captain shot a Lithuanian at a military checkpoint Sunday, and officials of the breakway republic said they have begun keeping a record of brutality inflicted on their citizens, a government spokesman said. 
Government spokesman Au­drius Azubalis said a Soviet patrol stopped the Lithuanian, who was driving a car with two hitchhikers about 1 a.m. The driver was asked to get out of the car and put his hands on the windshield. 
A shot fired at the ground by the captain; apparently as a warning, ricocheted and hit the man in the leg. The Lithuanian, identified as A. Shalkingas, was taken to a Vilnius hospital for treatment. 
Azubalis also said the last of six Lithuanians seized after a shooting incident involving paratroopers Thursday was released, then taken to a hospital for treatment of a concussion. 
The Lithuanian Health Min­istry reported a similar case Saturday in Kaunas, 60 miles west of Vilnius, where a man detained Jan. 24 by the military was released and taken to a hospital suffering from a concussion, arm fractures and chest injuries, Azubalis said. 
The commander of the Soviet Army garrison had warned Saturday that his troops were getting "more and more out of control." 
Troops have been patrolling major cities in Lithuania and the highways that connect 
see LITHUANIA I page 5 


AP Photo 

A U.S. Marine Muslim offers noontime prayers in the Saudi Ara­bian desert near the Kuwaiti border Friday. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Monday, January 28, 1991
The Observer 
Partly sunny today with highs in the •• mid 30s. Lows ~•.:..·~'"":'=..••.·." toninght around 20. ·.·.·. Mostly cloudy to­

·•·•. morrow with a 30 t~~~ >y>< Ipercent chance of 
~ <light snow. Highs in _ ..........................)•••1 the upper 20s. \TEMPERATURES: 
c•:<•>••••••••:........:•••:•:•:•:•:•••:~• City  H  L  
•::  Athens  50  39  
IQ[i~f '{{)•! Atlanta  55  32  
• Boston '<»».;>;;..>;:.:;:•••: •':1 Charleston,S.C.  36 56  24 39  
·•••••••••••••:•:·•······•·•••••••••·•·t Chicago  32  13  
.::  Dallas-Ft. Worth  72  40  
••  Denver  43  19  
• Detroit  32  12  
-~.......:;;;;;.;;;;;;;;~-+-4--4~~llr,~lj7 Ul~/)]·· Honolulu" : Houston ~~~~4 .< ti1if) ) {) >)!Indianapolis  8168 34  7250 08  
\:/::•::::: \) <>•:•:•:•:•:•.•:•:•·•·••:•:•:•·•:•! London  39  36  
Los Angeles  62  46  
DtJ.•·••BIO/{  ><<I Madrid  54  36  
Miami Beach • •·• •·•·•·•·•·•·•·••·•·•· .··. ·:t Moscow <)))'~;...,..........,.,\ New York City  80 32 40  68 02 28  
Paris  32  28  
Philadelphia  44  25  
Portland,Ore.  47  23  
Rome  52  28  
St. Louis  38  24  
~=...................1Salt Lake City  4 7  15  
( >t\i~llil}}";W~·< >>!San Franciscor .. South Bend  5530  4411  
Tokyo  50  37  
Washington,D.C  48  29  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Student Body elections need to be more fun 
R. Calhoun Kersten as--------­
sured Notre Dame stu­dents during his 1972 campaign for Student Body President that "God has agreed to ex­tend July for two weeks." Claiming that God approved of his ac­
tions, ~ersten set up his Alison Cocks campaign headquarters Ed't . Ch' 1
1 19
in the fourth floor or-m­bathroom of Walsh Hall,-------­outfitting himself in regal attire and 
promising voters to "come out unequivocally and indefinitely on every major issue." 
His platform included the abolition of all Student Government positions and the establishment of an oligarchy, recruitment of Yanamamo Indians from Southern Brazil and negotiations for a Rocka-Rocka dis­cotheque franchise on campus. On-Candi­date the Cat, a silver tabby, ran as the vice­presidential contender and became Notre Dame's first female to seek elected office. In short, Kersten challenged campaign standards. 
He also won. 
This year I'm thinking of making a "No Campaigners Allowed" sign for the door. To borrow a phrase, "I've had it." 
Everyone at Notre Dame has a responsi­bility to pay attention to the student body elections. Experience has taught me that once in four years is sufficient. 
In 1988, all nine tickets put up posters complete with their pictures and their re­sumes, and campaigned door-to door for a week. In 1989, a few candidates added spot color to their flyers. Oh, and they went door-to-door. In 1990, Pasin and Tombar went out on a limb and used purple spot color. They spent the week-you guessed it-campaigning door-to-door. 
In 1972, Kersten brought fun and creativ­ity to the process, and the student body re­sponded. He started as a joke ticket, which does not guarantee a successful campaign, nor is it usually the hallmark of inspiring leadership. But it is possible to win without following Notre Dame's formula for a suc­cessful campaign. Kersten's panache can be utilized without sacrificing substance. 
I'm throwing down the gauntlet to this year's hopefuls. We're bored. Do something unique for Notre Dame's apathetic voters. Show us something on your posters we haven't seen before. 
I'm not sure the student body is ready for 
another cat to take office, but we certainly 
need a fresh approach and new faces. Ker­
sten proved that inexperience doesn't have 
to be an obstacle. His credentials were a 
third-place finish in a campaign for dorm 
section leader and a stint as alternate 
homeroom student council rep. in junior 
high. 
A little initiative goes a long way, and I, 
for one, will be looking for that in this 
year's campaigns. I don't care if candidates 
run for president, king, or even emperor, as 
long as they prove that they not only can do 
the job, but can have fun with it. 
Today's Staff: 
Ad Design News 
Joy Harris Paul Pearson Tony Paganelli Kevaleen Ryan 
Anita Covelli Rene Ferran 
Lisa Gunsorek 
Accent Graphics 
Mike Whitman Jake Frost 
Shonda Wilson 
Michael Muldoon Gerrie Hamilton Business Sports Colleen Gannon Rene Ferran Denisse Marion-Landais Alicia Reale Production Michelle Wood Photography Jacquie Calhoun Garr Schwartz 
Systems Circulation Amalia Meier Bill O'Roukrke Fritz Valsaint Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
Newspaper corrects Mozart's death 
•LONDON-A British newspaper on Sunday cor­rected its report nearly two centuries ago on the death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The Observer said on Dec. 25, 1791, it reported "the celebrated German composer" Mozart had died 10 days earlier in Vienna. "We are now able to confirm that the composer died on Dec. 5 and was, in fact, Austrian. As today is his birthday, we should like to take this opportunity to apologize to the composer's family for any distress," the weekly said. The Observer added, "We should like to point out that news traveled more slowly in those days and the previous day's Times (of London) commit­ted the same error." 
Floods in Iran leave 3 people dead 
•NICOSIA, Cyprus-Torrential rains set off flash floods in eastern Iran, killing three villagers and ren­dering thousands of others homeless, the Islamic Re­public News Agency reported Sunday. The agency, monitored in Nicosia, said hundreds of heads of live­stock, and several dikes and villages were washed away and that dozens of roads were submerged, hampering relief operations. Kerman, capital of Khorasan province, and dozens of other villages were submerged, IRNA reported, saying rainstorms had slowed down army helicopters flying supplies to the stricken areas. The rains were unprecedented in this normally arid region of Iran, IRNA said. 
NATIONAL Sports fantasies constitute gambling
•"rALLAHASSEE, Fla.-Sports fantasy leagues, in which some 1 million fans get to run their own teams, were dealt a dose of reality by a legal opinion maintaining that they constitute a form of gambling. One of the founders of the Rotisserie League Baseball Association -which takes its name from a now-de­funct New York eatery, where it began in earnest in 1980 -said the Florida attorney general's recent rul­ing comes at the fantasy league world like a brushback pitch. Glen Waggoner, also a contributing editor to Esquire magazine and a free-lance writer, said the Jan. 10 opinion from Attorney General Bob Butterworth was the nation's first describing fantasy leagues as gambling. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/JANUARY 25, 1990 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
183.38 • 0.74 S&P COMPOSITE A 336.07 y-1.29 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2659.41 +16.34 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {t $2.60 to $ 376.1 0/oz. 
SILVER it-3.4tt to$ 3.817/oz. 

194.35 Million 

CAMPUS Bergin elected to Humanities board 
•NOIRE DAME--Thomas Bergin of Notre Dame was among the eight new members chosen to the board of directors of the Indiana Humanities Council. He will serve an initial 3-year term of office and will then be eligible for re-election to a second 3-year term. Bergin is Dean of the Center for Continuing Education. The Indiana 


Humanities Council is a non-profit organization that supports the public's use of the humanities to enrich personal and civic life in Indiana. 
OF INTEREST 
•SEATING 
FOR JPW dinner and brunch will be arranged at the Center for Continuing Education from 2 to 10 p.m. today and tomorrow. Don't forget to bring the ID's of those with whom you intend to sit. 

•THE 
MANAGEMENT CLUB will be sponsoring a organizational meeting on tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 124, Hayes Healy. All members must attend and any interested management majors are encouraged to come. 

•ANYONE 
INTERESTED IN TUTORING Native American students Tuesday evenings from 6 to 


7:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's should attend an informa­tional meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 315, Madeleva Hall. For more information, call Betsy at 284-4441. 
• 
STUDENTS UNITED FOR RESPECT (SUFR) will meet with Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of Student Affairs, Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 122, Hayes-Healy. All are invited to discuss issues of a ra­cial harassment policy, the construction of a multi­cultural center and ethnic history course requirements. 

•THE 
ISA'S International Student Festival will take place on Feb. 8-9 in Washington Hall. Anyone in­terested in performing or participating in any way, please contact Etienne at 273-6816. 

•ANYONE 
INTERESTED IN HELPING to start or becoming a member of an Objective Philosophy Club (Objectivism is the philosophy of famous novel­ist/philosopher Ayn Rand) should contact Tim Calmeyn at 283-3005 or sent a note to 308 Fisher. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1878: The first daily college newspaper, the Yale News, began publication in New Haven, Conn. 

• 
In 1909: The United States ended direct control over Cuba. 

• 
In 1916: Louis Brandeis was appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court, becoming its first Jewish member. 

• 
In 1973: A cease-fire officially went into effect in the Vietnam War. 

• 
Five years ago: The space shuttle Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff from Cape Canaveral, killing all seven crew members, including schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe. 


Monday, January 28, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Panel debates 'male standard' during Snite's 'Day of Women' 
By MINDY DILLON News Writer 
The "neutral standard" of evaluation in the workplace must be changed to accommo­date women and their strer'lgths, according to Teresa Phelps, Notre Dame associate professor of law. 
Phnlps, one of seven panelists in a discussion on women in the workplace, explained that this standard poses the greatest diflieulty for women because it is not neutral. "It is a white male standard," she said. 
!'helps was a member of the panel that assembled Saturday to discuss "The Situation of WomP.n in Different Fields" as part of the Snite Museum's "Day of Women." 
Other members of the panel indudnd Jean Dibble, assistant professor of art, art history and dcsig11; Deanna Francis, deputy managing editor/features of the South Bend Tribune; Mary Hoerner, therapist at the Omni Center for Women's Health and Medicine; Marcia Sawyer, professor of history; Kristen Stamile, NO senior; and Dr. 
Ellen Stecker, family practitioner. 
The traditional method of evaluation in the office along with a woman's unrealistic ex­pectations of herself creates in­tense pressure which can only bn alleviated by changes in the way society views working women, according to the pan­elists. 
Hoerner suggested that women too often seek external, often male, approval for their aetions. "We need to trust in ourselves and our womanliness and not the over-valuP.d mascu­line way of doing things," she said. Stecker added that men need to find a balance between work and family as well. 
It is not easy to change the climate in the workplace, agreed the panelists. Opportu­nities for women and minorities that are a result of Affirmative Action programs often cause resentment among workers. 
Sawyer shared her unique way of dealing with those who try to tell her she was only hired to fill a quota. She told the audience to "agree with them (opponents of Affirmative Action hirings) . . . with the complete confidence in your qualifications and competency serving as support." 
Although the panelists were from diverse backgrounds and fields, they shared common ex­periences with discrimination, family problems, and difficulties with relationships. The panelists explained how work, husbands, boyfriends and chil­dren often interrupt their pur­suit of an education. 
The sentiment toward the de­lays and deviations was varied. Stecker felt the irregular path reinforced her ambition. "Learning to pick up the pieces in the face of defeat is an in­valuable lesson," she said. 
In contrast, Sawyer expressed a desire for an "antidote to senioritis" that would instill patience into college seniors trying to rush a career, family, and marriage. 
The panelists agreed on the importance of discourse and events like "Year of Women" lectures in inducing change in society. Stecker recommends that women sustain the preju­dicial blows. "Believe enough in yourself to become the person you want to be," she said. 




Dr. Michael Salemi Graduate Student Teaching The Role of Graduate Student Teaching in University Education Monday, January 28th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. 1hr. general session and 1hr. discussion groups 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* *C. B. S. Ecumenical Bible Study Tuesday, Jan. 29, 1991 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. · one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room .of Campus Ministry 
• Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. AI D'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call: • 239-5242 or 239-5955 
•Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students,. : International Students and : : Members of the Notre Dame Family : : invited to attend : 
: .
' 
GSU 
TEACHING 
~ 
RESEARCH 
WORKSHOPS 


The Observer I E. G. Bailey 

In a seven-person panel on women in the workplace, Marcia Sawyer, NO professor of history, emphasized the importance of "Year of . Women" lectures in inducing a change in a male-dominated society. 
Father James Burtchaell named head of Justlife 
Special to The Observer 
Father James Burtchaell, professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame, was recently elected chairman of the board of directors of JustLife, a nationwide political action committee established in 1986 to support candidates and legislation upholding a consistent ethic of life. 
According to its policy state­ment, JustLife "supports gov­ernment programs that em­power the poor to become self-sufficlent. .. opposes all abortions, except when neces­sary to prevent the death of the mother" and rejects the position that "more and newer weapons systems are the way to achieve disarmament." 
In an essay describing JustLife, Burtchaell wrote, "We are calling for a fel­lowship of Americans who are alarmed alike by the cry of the poor, the massacre of the innocents and the terrorism of the beasts of war." 
Burtchaell, who is on leave for research and writing at 
'! lflflHlrWI 
r":'JI.H.~J 


Father James Burtchaell 
Princeton University during this academic year, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1966 and served as the University's provost be­tween 1970 and 1977. 
A 1956 graduate of Notre Dame, Burtchaell holds de­grees in theology from Gregorian University in Rome, Catholic University in Washington, D.C., and Cambridge University in England. His nine books in­clude "Rachel Weeping, and other Essays on Abortion," winner of a Christopher Award as one of the best books of 1982, and "The Giving and Taking of Life," a major ethical work published recently by Notre Dame Press. 
Ask one of the 3 million Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
Weare wtnrung. 
IAMERICAN
~CANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 


~--~~--~----~---~------~--­
page 4 The Observer Monday, January 28, 1991 
University Libraries receive $385,000 grant 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
Future improvements of the University Libraries. including closer cooperation between Notre Dame and three other Indiana libraries. will be made possible by a recent grant and funds received from NO's Strategic Moment campaign. 
Lilly Endowment, Inc., awarded University Libraries a two-year, $385,000 grant that will "enhance inter-institutional cooperation" between the li­braries of ND, Bethel, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's Col­lege's, according to Cynthia Scott, assistant director of NO's department of public relations and information. 
The grant will finance a link­age of Notre Dame's online computer system, UNLOC. with the systems of the other three colleges, as well as allow Uni­versity Libraries to expand cer­tain collections, such as Eastern European history and literature, according to Robert Miller, director of University Libraries. 
University Libraries have also received over $6 million from NO's Strategic Moment cam­paign, a recently completed ND fund-raising drive, launched in May of 1987. which attracted over $450 million from over 
61.000 individuals. The $6 mil­lion appropriated for University Libraries will be placed in vari­ous investments, the earnings of which will be used to improve the libraries. 
According to Miller and Kathy Blackstead, Library ad­vancement officer, present and future improvements of the li­brary include: 
•expansion of holdings in East European history and literature, West European literature, art, music, history of science and technology; 
•acquisition 
of additional UNLOC terminals and renova­tion of old terminals and print­ers; 

•inclusion 
of periodical in­dexes in UNLOC; 

•the 
establishment of a cam­pus directory of information, including that taken from or­ganizations not owned by the University, such as Educational Media; 

•renovations 
to the Hesburgh Library. including space alloca­tion brought on by moving non­library departments out of Hesburgh's ground floor; 

•increases 
in staff size. in order to further help users to learn how to use the library's resources; 

•assimilation 
of the coding for government documents with call numbers used for most of the libraries holdings. ND's li­brary is an official depository for government documents, in­cluding statistics and reports used for research purposes. 


University Libraries also plans to initiate the inclusion of user names in its circulation in­formation, according to Black­stead. In order to protect the rights of individual users, it will be possible for users to request that their name not be included in the circulation information. 
The addition of user names to circulation information is de­signed to encourage sharing of information between users, said Blackstead. However, she did stress that University Libraries would make every effort to respect the right of privacy of users. 

JUNifJR FDRMAL 
February 1, 1991 $10 per couple 
hors d'oeuvres, cash bar, music 
tickets on sale now at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
APPLICATION DEADLINE -FEB. 7 $1400.00 SCHOLARSHIP ND students only 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US Information meeting Jan, 28. 6:30 pm Center for Social Concerns 

AP Photo
Bomb blast 

A street cleaner sweeps shattered glass outside the British-based Barclays bank in the residential Athens suburb pf Marous1 after a bomb placed next to the entrance went off, causing slight damage. 
Women talk on media and the workplace 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
News Writer 
Women in the work force at­tempting to regain their femi­ninity was the focus of "Women in the Media and the Work­place," a lecture held as part of the Snite Museum's "Day of Women" on Saturday. 
The panel of women assem­bled to speak consisted of three Notre Dame faculty members from the communications and theater department and the de­partment of economics. 
Teresa Ghilarducci, assistant professor of economics, opened the lecture in discussing the idea that today's working woman loses her femininity be­cause she is "more prone to alienation and loss due to her subordinated work posi­tions ... women have more jobs that are alienating." 

Because of this. Hilary Rad­ner, assistant professor of communications and theater, added that women are "isolating themselves from the role in culture that [women] are to represent." 
Radner supported this statement by implying that women in the workplace are at­tempting to regain their femi­ninity through material pur­chases. "Traditional sex roles designate women as the shop­pers," said Ghilarducci. 
Ava Collins, adjunct instructor of communications and theater, used the hit movie, "Pretty Woman," to show the transformation of a woman in today's society. Collins at-
ATLEAST /DIDN'T ''FORGET'' 
tempted to prove that the way women are seen in society, as well as the ways in which they see themselves, come through their purchases. 
Radner gave examples from a survey taken of female corpo­rate executives who are the primary readers of fashion magazines. Nearly forty percent of the ads in the eight most read fashion magazines, display advertisements for methods of self-improvement for women. The consumer market is being designed around a more ego­sensed female shopper, said Radner. 
This lecture concluded the morning segment of The Snite Museum of Art's Day of Women. 

God gives each person one lifetime. Whatare you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
The Observer 

Monday, January 28, 1991 
International prayer for peace to be hosted by Abbey of Monte Cassino 
Special to The Observer 
Italy's ancient Abbey of Monte Cassino, destroyed during World War II by American bombers and rebuilt after the war, will be the site of an inter­national prayer for peace that will begin Feb. 15, the date of the 1944 bombing. 
Sponsoring the prayer is the St. Thomas Aquinas Society, the national spiritual enrichment program of the University of St. Thomas. The patron saint of the society and the university, St. Thomas Aquinas, studied at Monte Cassino in the 13th Century. 
Invitations to the opening twent have been extended to representatives of the Italian government, the Holy See and 
Lithuania 
continued from page 1 
them since a weekend of violence two weeks ago claimed 14 lives and injured more than 500 people. 
Azubalis said the Interior Ministry and other departments of the republic's government are formally logging incidents of Soviet brutality. 
He said the government of Lithuania, with about 3.7 mil­lion residents, had also agreed with representatives of the Soviet prosecutor's office to work on a joint investigation of all the incidents. 
The republics of Lithuania, the nations which had military personnel involved in the battle that raged around Monte Cassino before and after the bombing. These nations include Britain, Canada, France, Ger­many, India, New Zealand, Poland and the United States. The remains of thousands of soldiers from these nations are buried in cemeteries near the abbey. 
Father John McHenry, the so­ciety's executive director, said the prayer will be a novena, a form Catholics have used for centuries in praying for peace, and will involve the offering of mass each day for nine days. 
"While the prayer is in the Catholic tradition," McHenry said, "its message embraces men and women of all faiths 
Latvia and Estonia are seeking independence from the Soviet Union. Stalin forcibly incorporated the three Baltic countries, which were independent between the two world wars, into the Soviet Union in 1940. 
The Soviet leadership in Moscow has pressed the re­publics to retract their de­mands and, backed by the So­viet army, is trying to reimpose central government control. The Baltics all have freely elected parliaments and claim that laws passed by their new democratic legislatures supersede Moscow's. 
In another development, former Prime Minister Kaz­imiera Prunskiene telephoned and we ask that they join us in praying for the end of armed conflict in the Persian Gulf and every other corner in the world." 
McHenry said that the prayer will take place during Lent, the church season that traditionally focuses on death and res­urrection. The theme is symbol­ized by the abbey's rebirth after the destruction of war. 
The abbey has been a spiri­tual, educational and cultural center for 14 centuries. Located between Rome and Naples, Monte Cassino was founded by St. Benedict in 529 A.D. His tomb in the abbey escaped damage in the massive air at­tack that proved to be a futile effort to speed the Allied ad­vance on Rome. 
the Lithuanian news agency Elta to deny a report that she had fled the country and asked for political asylum in Switzerland. 
Prunskiene expressed anger about the reports, which she termed "disinformation." and said "such a thought had never even" come to mind. 
She said she was in Germany to seek aid for an organization called "Support Lithuania." Prunskiene said she had stopped in Poland to seek humanitarian aid en route to Germany, Elta reported. 
Prunskiene resigned earlier this month over protests at how her government had han­dled sharp price increases that took effect Jan. 1. 
page 5 


Marine Corporal Keith Lamont Dorsette of Brooklyn, N.Y., plays his saxophone at his forward position in the Saudi Arabian desert Thursday. He's a professional musician in civilian life. 
Chan1pion International Corporation -one of A1nerica's leading 1nanufacturers of paper for business cornmunications, corntnercial printing, publications, and newspapers-invites Saint Mary's and Notre Dan1e seniors to interview f()r sales representative positions. 
SMC 
Reception 

Stapleton Lounge, Wednesday, January 30, 7-9prn 
Interviews 

Thursday, January 31 
Notre Dame 
Reception 

The Foster Room in LaFortune Center Monday, january 28, 7-9prn 
Interviews 

Wednesday, January 30 


-------~ ---------~~--~~~-~----­
Monday, January 28, 1991

page 6 The Observer 
LATE NIGHT 

Friday, February 1, 1991 • Joyce ACC • 8:00p.m. • 4:00a.m. Contact Your Hall Representative • Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics Proceeds to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics 
Monday, January 28, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Right-wingers survive French election's first round 
PAHIS (AI') -Two rebel right­wing politicians won the first round Sunday of special parliamentary elections they billed as a crusade to rid France of political corruption. Turnout was light. 
A third finished second in her district but will also compete in runoiT elections Feb. 3. 
The three -Lyon Mayor Michel Noir, Jean-Michel Du­bernard and former health minister Michele Barzach ­quit last month to force the vote. It was seen as a challenge to Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac. a former premier and leader of the conservative Hally for the Hepublic Party. 
Noir and Dubernard easily won their Lyon contests and will face runoff opponents from Jean-Marie Le Pen's extreme­right National Front, which posted a surprisingly strong showing ahead of the traditional mainstream parties. 
Noir captured 43 percent of the vote for his seat. while his nearest challenger, Bruno Goll­nisch, weighed in with 16 per­cent. Dubernard won 40 per­cent of the vote compared to 18 percent for the Front's Alain Breuil. 
Record low voter turnout may have contributed to the National Front's performance in Lyon. Only about 30 percent of the southern city's registered voters cast ballots. 
In a news conference, Noir blamed the turnout on the im­pact of the Persian Gulf war, which has diverted attention away from domestic politics. 
In the 15th district of Paris, Barzach made the run-off but finished second, with 26 per­cent, behind Rene Galy-Dejean of the Rally for the Republic Party with 41 percent. Turnout stood at about 40 percent. 
Noir, 46, an up-and-coming national figure, resigned his National Assembly seat Dec. 6 and urged other politicians to follow him in protest of what he called broad corruption de­stroying political life. 
The crusade failed to attract widespread support, but the resignations further loosened Chirac's weakening grip on his fractious party, divided among diehard Gaullists and a younger generation of deputies like Noir and Barzach. 
It also demonstrates the dis­integration of the traditional right as a unified force against the governing Socialists, a fact borne out by the National Front's good showing. 
National Front leader Jean­Marie Le Pen said the record abstentions and his party's Lyon success "marks the loss of confidence hitting the estab-

American Association of University Students holds annual conference 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Associate News Editor 
The American Association of University Students (AAUS) is sponsoring its 13th Annual National Conference at Wash­ington University in St. Louis. 
The conference, titled "Race, Class and Education: A New Approach for the '90's," runs for several days and has sched­uled speakers of national and international acclaim such as former U.S. President Jimmy Carter. who will deliver· the keymote speech 
Other scheduled speakers in­clude closing speaker Dennis Watson of the National Black Youth Leadership Foundation and Scott Austin, involved in the "Names" project of the AIDS Foundation which adds a new 
• • 
e 

piece to a giant quilt for every AIDS fatality. 
A variety of one-hour work­shops like "Unity and Diversity," "Alcohol and College Life." and "Federal Legislation" are scheduled to run throughout the conference. Two panels, "Prejudice in the Campus Com­munity" and "The Changing University: Financial Matters vs. Educational Quality," will run simultaneously. 
Other events include a "Success Fair" and a national issues forum. in which students will meet in settings similar to traditional town meetings and talk about complex public pol­icy issues. 
According to Sam Adler, the conference director of services and logistics, the conference will have representatives from 
SCHOOLS 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
PARISHES 
lishment parties." Le Pen's party favors expelling immigrants from France. 
The Front lost a three-way mayor's race in the Paris sub­urb of Clichy-Sous-Bois. Ex­pelled Communist Andre De­schamps won with 42 percent against 38 percent for the Frong's Laurent Dafoss. Turnout was 50 percent. 
The Communist Party ex­pelled Deschamps last year after he said there were too many Arab immigrants in France. Deschamps called the stand necessary to counter the rising influence of the National Front. which favors expelling immigrants from France. 
nearly half of the Ivy League schools, and tentative plans have been made for a workshop on the Gulf War. 
AAUS, in a pamphlet describ­ing the conference. says the as­sociation is "committed to the idea that students can and must contribute to the pursuit of excellence. The association was founded on the concept that communication between students can be a positive force in improving higher education while enriching undergraduate experience." 
The conference runs from Feb. 27 to Mar. 3, with regis­tration fees of $170 until Feb. 20 and $200 on site. Delegates for the conference are directed to contact the Clayton Plaza Holiday Inn for reservations (314) 863-0400. 
Further questions concerning transportation or logistics should be directed to Adler of the conference committee at (314) 726-8503. 
Correction 
In an article on Friday's Observer, the dates of the Graduate Student Union's Professional Development Workshop Program were in­correct. The article incorrectly stated that the five sessions would take place during the week of Jan. 28. The talks will take place tonight, Feb. 4, Feb. 18, March 4, and March 25. The Observer regrets the error. 
..
0 

American Heart Association 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 8 Monday, January 28, 1991 
WEEKEND GULF ROUNDUP 
Oil slick threatens region's water supply 
•RIYADH,· Saudi Arabia-'-A Saudi environmental official said Sunday that the mammoth oil slick pouring into the Persian Gulf from Iraqi-occupied Kuwait does not threaten the kingdom's water supply. The official, Abdulbar al-Gain, also said at a press briefing that Saddam Hussein was waging a war on the region's wildlife. Officials said Saturday the oil could foul desalination plants that supply two-thirds of the region's fresh water. Experts said the oil could ruin the plants by gumming up their sensitive distillation equipment, and taint the water with toxic chemicals. "There is no danger, absolutely, to the desalination plants," al-Gain said. He said the water facilities had been protected with booms, skimmers and unspecified "non-traditional" methods. U.S. military officials have said Iraqis turned on pumps at a Kuwaiti offshore oil loading facility last week and fed the spill with five idle tankers holding 3 million barrels of crude -about 125 million gallons. Al-Gain said Sunday that as much as 2 million barrels of oil a day might be pouring into the gulf. 
Americans favor aerial over ground attack 
•NEW YORK-Most Americans expect the Persian Gulf war to continue for at least four months and favor continued aerial bombing rather than a ground assault, according to a Time­CNN poll released Saturday. Another poll, which appears in the Feb. 4 issue of Newsweek, shows the war aim mosl strongly supported by Americans is overthrowing the regime of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Of the 1,000 people Time-CNN polled, 59 percent expect the war to last four to six months or longer. Only 5 percent said the war will end within four weeks or less. Of the 751 people polled by Newsweek, 63 percent said they think the war will last several months -up from 36 per­cent last week. Only 12 percent said they think the war will end in days or weeks. The Time-CNN poll shows 54 percent of Americans believe the allied forces should continue to rely en­tirely on aerial attacks in the war against Iraq, while 32 per­cent favor starting a ground war. Forty-seven percent of those polled by Newsweek say the United States should stop military action against Iraq only after Saddam's government is removed from power. 
Penta~on devises post-war plans 
•WAS INGTON-Government planners are furiously brainstorming to devise responses for various outcomes of the Persian Gulf war -from rosy dreams of a full Iraqi surrender to nightmares of a chaotic, leaderless Iraq. The planners at the Pentagon, the National Security Council and the State Depart­ment are consulting outside experts, sometimes Iraqis, to sketch scenarios and contingency plans. The plans range from schemes to limit Saddam Hussein's power if he survives the war to tacit backing for a coup by military commanders if they feel Iraq is being destroyed in the war. For example, options to limit Saddam's influence might include international arms em­bargoes, Arab peacekeeping forces and a large American pres­ence in a liberated Kuwait. "Chaos and disintegration are also possible. But we don't want to be the ones restoring order. We'd leave that to the Iraqis and Saudis," said one source familiar with the planners' work. Their studies, as described by several people with access to the highly classified material, are general in nature and will be fleshed out only when the fighting ends. "There's a natural limit as to how much one can plan," said one planner. 
Pan Am refuses Iraqi passengers 
•NEW YORK-Pan American World Airways has turned away Iraqi passengers since war began last week in the Persian Gulf, a newspaper reported today. The New York Times quoted an unidentified Pan Am employee in Los Angeles as saying the air­line ordered ground staffs to turn away all Iraqi nationals on all domestic and international flights. "We will not carry anyone from Iraq," an airline employee told the newspaper on condition of anonymity. "We help them get onto another airline if we can. They are told, 'We cannot accept you for transporta­tion, however, we can get you a reservation on XYZ airline."' The employee said the ban applied to Iraqi visitors as well as legal resident aliens in the United States, the newspaper said. It said a security guard at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York confirmed the order. Neither the employee nor the guard would discuss how the ban was enforced. Domestic flights do not require passengers to show passports. On Dec. 21, 1988, Pan Am Flight 103 was blown apart by a terrorist bomb over Lockerbie, Scotland. All 270 people aboard were killed. 
Officials criticize city's handling of protests 
•SAN FRANCISCO-Federal officials criticized the city's handling of anti-war protests at the Federal Building last week that stopped some people from getting to work. The officials accused the city of being too lax. In a letter to Mayor Art Agnos, FBI agent Richard Held said protesters illegally blocked federal employees and that the city "has not taken action to protect the First Amendment rights of citizens who work in or do business with agencies in the Federal Building." Protesting demonstrators barred the building's entrances, keeping many employees out and halting most business inside. About 1,100 protesters were arrested as a result. Edwin Thomas, regional head of the General Service Administration, sent a memo to federal employees saying his agency made extra efforts to keep the building open with help from federal law enforcement offi­cials. "Unfortunately, without the assistance of the San Fran­cisco Police Department in keeping the streets and sidewalks clear, our efforts have been frustrated by the sheer size of the crowds," Thomas said. In the memo he implied the city of has a policy of not interfering with protesters. 
Iran reveals Gulf peace plan; says it will fight if Israel does 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Iran's Parliament speaker on Sunday unveiled a Persian Gulf war peace plan calling for an immediate cease-fire, simulta­neous withdrawal by both sides and a halt to Jewish settlement in the occupied lands. 
Mahdi Karrubi also said that Iran "will certainly fight Israel along with other Muslim states" if Israel enters the war against Iraq. 
His remarks were reported by Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, monitored in Ni­cosia. 
Karrubi's five-point peace plan proposes that Islamic forces from unspecified coun­tries supervise withdrawals of allied and Iraqi forces from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, re­spectively, then replace both sides in those lands. 
The Islamic forces would also supervise the lifting of United Nations' embargoes on ship­ments of food and medicine to Iraq. 
The plan seeks an uncondi­tional halt to "the Jewish influx" into Israeli-occupied territories and the formation of a committee of Islamic states to support the "liberation-seeking struggles" of Palestinians throughout the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
No further details were given. 
Karrubi also did not elaborate on his remarks about Israel, which has been attacked by Iraqi missiles six times in the past 10 days in an attempt to drag Israel into the war. The United States fears this could split the anti-Iraq coalition which includes several Arab states hostile to Israel. 
A possible cease-fire was on the agenda of talks between Iranian officials and Jordan's Foreign Minister Taher Masri, who arrived in Tehran on Sun­day in the first visit by a Jorda­nian official to Iran in 10 years. 
The two Islamic states re­sumed diplomatic ties earlier this month, ending a rupture initiated by Iran because of Jordan's support for Iraq during the eight-year Iran-Iraq war. 
Masri told reporters upon ar­riving for his two-day visit that since Iran and Jordan both shared borders with Iraq, they had common concerns about the war. 
He said Jordan, where pro-
Iraqi sentiment is widespread, was fully observing U.N.-ap­proved economic sanctions against Iraq. 
Jordan and Iran, which are neutral in the conflict, have been leading a variety of Islamic nations' efforts to arrange a cease-fire, conditional on Saddam's withdrawal from Kuwait. 
Both countries support the United Nations' demand for Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait, but oppose the U.S.-dominated military attack to enforce it. 
Later Sunday, state-run Tehran radio said the confisca­tion of Iraqi warplanes which landed in Iran on Saturday proved Iran's neutrality during the war and its "principled stand toward a war which was ignited by unholy motives." 
Also, Iran called for interna­tional help in controlling a massive oil slick spreading into the Persian Gulf from Iraqi-oc­cupied Kuwait, the official news agency reported. 
President Bush has ordered a team of oil and environmental experts to Saudi Arabia to cope with the spill. 
ND students march in Washington, D.C. 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 

Thirty-three Notre Dame stu­dents representing the Gulf Cri­sis Action Group (GCAG) joined members of other campus groups and peace organizations for a demonstration against the Persian Gulf War on Saturday in Washington, D.C. 
"The demonstration was an important occasion in which to make dissent apparent," said graduate student Kevin Ranney, a representative of the group. Ranney called the march a suc­cess and said approximately 100,000 people participated. 
He also was pleased with the diversity of the participants. In addition to the many religious groups and labor organizations present, "a significant propor­tion of young people were rep­resented at the march." Also present was the Michiana Coali­tion for Peace, a local activist group. 
The GCAG is calling for a 
"cease fire" and a reduction of troops in the Persin Gulf. The group also would like to see the 
U.S. troops currently stationed in the Midlle East replaced with 
U.N. forces. 

Ranney called for a resump­tion of economic sanctions and diplomatic measures, measures he considered the best way to resolve the situation in Kuwait. "Only by stopping the bombs from falling can we ensure that our loved ones will come home alive," said GCAG members. 

Taking precautions 
~ Jord~nian tapes ~p his shop window in case of missile attack. Jordanians fear the Gulf war may spill 1nto the1r country. Kmg Hussein has informed both Allied and Iraqi forces that he will remain neutral. 

----~------------~..------~--~--.-----------~------------------------------~------------------­
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Monday, January 28, 1991 page 9 
CBS presses search for missing crew, gets CNN help 
NEW YORK (AP) -CBS continued its efforts Sunday to find a four-member news team missing for nearly a week, and a CNN correspondent in Baghdad reported that Iraqi authorities say they have no word on the crew. 
Correspondent Bob Simon, producer Peter Bluff, camera­man Hoberto Alvarez and soundman Juan Caldera disappeared last Monday while covering the Persian Gulf war. They were traveling without military escort near occupied Kuwait. 
"We are doing all we can to to determine if indeed Bob Si­mon and his crew are in Iraqi hands, and if he is, that he be brought to Baghdad and shipped home," CNN's Peter Arnett reported in a live broadcast by satellite phone Sunday from that city. 
But "the Iraqis are saying they do not have him (Simon), or they don't have any information about him at this point," said Arnett, who has been reporting from Baghdad since the war began on Jan. 16. 
A Saudi military patrol found the crew's unoccupied car last week. Saudi officials said Friday that the crew apparently had been heading into occupied Kuwait, more than 350 miles southeast of Baghdad. 
"We've been urgently and ag­gressively contacting every official in the U.S. and overseas who might be able to help or provide information that could lead us to the crew," CBS spokesman Tom Goodman said. 
That includes U.S. and 

Iraq reopens border with Jordan; allows refugees across for first time in 5 days 
RUWEISHED, Jordan (AP) ­Iraq reopened its border Sun­day for the first time in five days, allowing a trickle of refugees and oil trucks to cross through this Jordanian border post. 
Along with 70 Tunisians, some of the first to cross were three Jordanians given permission to leave because they had been slightly injured in an allied bombing raid Sunday near the border. 
Some of the escapees said 3,000 to 5,000 people were still waiting at the Iraqi border post of Trebil for permission to leave. 
The injured Jordanians had been part of medical teams which had been returning home from a trip to Baghdad, one of the three, Sultan Shawakfeh, said in Amman. Jordan's capital. 
"We were on the highway (near Trebil) when our car window exploded in our faces and the car shook," said Shawakfeh, a medical techni­cian. "We jumped out and lay on the ground as we saw other cars being directly hit by bombs as several jets flew overhead. 
"Many people were wounded, but I don't know if there were fatalities," Shawakfeh said. He said no military traffic was visible on the highway at the time of the 

AP 
attack. 
One Jordanian family was also allowed through Sunday because their 2-year-old daughter had died of kidney problems while waiting at the border, Jordanian officials said. 
A Tunisian, who refused to give his name, said his group and most others waiting at Trebil had been there since before or just after the start of allied air raids against Iraq on Jan. 17. 
The exodus marks the second time Jordan has been confronted with a refugee crisis since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. At that time, more than 800,000 people, mostly Asians, arrived, overwhelming refugee camps and straining Jordan's economy. Crown Prince Hassan said Jordan feared 750,000 more refugees will arrive this time. 
Yet so far only a few thou­sand refugees have crossed the barren desert border about 180 miles east of the capital of Amman. 

ENVIRONMENTAL DISASTER IN THE GULF 
Environmental experts said there was no way to stop a mammoth oil slick pouring from Iraqi-held Kuwait. The slick has already crept 70 miles south along the Saudi Arabian coast. 
The oil slick threatens: Fresh water: Desert states on the Gulf's southern shore depend on desalination
IRAQ 
plants that remove salt from seawater to make It drinkable. Fisheries: All the Gulf states fish Its fertile waters commercially for food. Wildlife: The Gulf's south and wast shores are lined with ecologically fragile wetlands.
Projected direction of spread 
Dispersants break up oil slick, coagulating agants gathers oil together or sink droplets below the water's surfaca 
Weather 

Tar balls form from tha heavier parts or the oil and sink to the bottom. Wind and wave action amulslfy soma olllnto the water forming "Moussa" 
America's home front activities include 23-mile yellow ribbon through Reno 
(AP)-Flag-waving Americans turned out Sunday in several -communities to send off National Guard battalions or demonstrate their backing for U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf. Students in Nevada stretched a 23-mile yellow ribbon of support. 
More than 100 million people were expected to stay indoors and watch the Super Bowl football game being played in Tampa, Fla., where the war meant extra security and a patriotic halftime show dedicated to the troops. 
In Lafayette Park across from the White House, a few dozen anti-war demonstrators kept the vigil Sunday, banging on drums and cans. A few Bush supporters also were there, including a teen-age girl with a "Storm On" poster. 
Discarded leaflets and signs gave the only evidence of the crowd that had marched around the White House on Saturday in one of two huge protests and many smaller rallies around the country both in protest of the war and in support of the war effort. 
San Francisco police esti­mated 30,000 people poured into the city's Civic Center Saudi military officials. Iraqi officials in France. Japan, Washington, Italy and the United Nations, Goodman said. He said CBS also had made a written appeal to Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev. 
plaza  Saturday,  but  
organizers  estimated  the  
crowd  at  225,000.  In  


In addition, he said, CBS vice president Don DeCesare has been sent to Saudi Arabia and is trying to visit the area where Simon and his crew disappeared. 
CBS News also is seeking Iraq's permission for let pro­ducer Larry Doyle into Bagh­dad for the sole purpose of seeking information on the missing crew, Goodman said. 
He praised CNN's assistance in seeking information, saying the rival network "has been very helpful" in relaying CBS' requests for any information to Iraqi officials in Baghdad. 
Simon, 49, with CBS since 1967. has had long experience in covering the Middle East. He also covered the Vietnam War and the fighting in Lebanon. 
GULF WAR ROUNDUP 
Allied bombers kept up bombardment of Iraqi 
IW

positions In Kuwait and southern Iraq, described by returning pilots as a devastated landscape of shattered bridges and fires beyond number. 
' ~ 
/1111;,' 
0 
Baghdad 
OILSPIU 

• Allies struggle to find a way to \. stop the oil slick drifting toward
RBd 
1 Saudi water plants.

Stla 
1 • The oil spill, first reported as 10 miles long, was washing up 
Riyadhon Saudi beaches 50 miles away. 

\ SCUDAnACKS \ Israel and Saudi Arabia came under Iraqi attacks Saturday night and fired Patriot missiles at the
Saturday, \ 
Incoming rockets.

Jan.28 
As of 4 p.m. EST 
Washington, police estimated before, but now is the time to anti-war crowds at 75,000; stand behind our men 100 organizers said 200,000. percent and hope they can 
Iraqi President Saddam come home safely," Sorenson Hussein had few supporters said. 
among the 200 Arab­Americans, many of Iraqi descent, who marched in silence Sunday in Detroit. 
"We want to show the American people that there is • opposition to Saddam Hussein, both inside Iraq and outside Iraq," said Shaib Shunia, spokesman for the Iraqi Democratic Union. 
Meanwhile, at the Congregation Shaarey Zedek in the suburban Southfield, Mich., a crowd of about 3,000 waved American and Israeli flags as speakers spoke of support for Israel. 
A 23-mile-long yellow ribbon was tied around the Reno, Nev., area to show support for the troops. 1\venty-three teams from the University of Nevada each stretched a mile of ribbon on the ground at the same time. 
The final ends of the ribbon were tied by Richard Sorenson, a World War II veteran who won the Medal of Honor for throwing himself on a live grenade lobbed by the Japanese. 
"We have been divided 
An estimated 3,500 people turned out for a rally in St. Paul, Minn. 
"Men and women serving in the gulf, we support your mis­sion. We know you're not risk­ing life and limb simply for a can of oil. We know the stakes are much, much higher," said Joseph Chase of Richfield, an organizer of Patriots for Sup­port of Our Troops, which sponsored the rally. 
Hundreds of flag-waving supporters lined a North Little Rock, Ark .. street Sunday to give 270 members of the Na­tional Guard's 212th Signal Battalion a rousing sendoff for training in Texas. 
In eastern Kentucky, hun­dreds of coal trucks, pickup trucks and cars snaked for miles through two counties. The caravan was met by hun­dreds of spectators who waved American flags and displayed yellow ribbons. 
"We (truckers) just want to show our support in this small way of our president, of our troops and of the families left back here," said Roy Mullins, the caravan's organizer. 
L____________________~ 

-~----~---~---~--­

ItI S,._,tt! 


The Observer 

page 10 
SUFR 
continued from page 1 
students, a SUFR member said. The fact that there are so few minority professors, this member said, causes these professors to be "spread very thin" because so many minority students would like to take classes from them, do independent studies with them and have them as club advisors. 
"If the University is truly committed to cultural diversity, then it will use all the resources at its disposal to 
maintain it. Minority professors are in demand; the
Iraqi deportation 
Iraqi brothers Hisham (middle) and Hasham Abdul Sattar, flash "V for victory" signs as they sit hand­
University must compete to 
cuffed to their escorts in the exclusion room of the Manila airport while awaiting deportation Friday for 
get minority faculty. The 
their alleged involvement in the failed bombing of a U.S. library last week. 
resources are available, but there is an unwillingness on the part of the University to commit themselves to the ef­
Protests over rumored attempt to free 
fort," one SUFR member said. 
The University is aware that
Haitian coup leader leaves 1 0 dead 


PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -Rumors of a plot to free the jailed leader of a Jan. 6 coup attempt provoked street violence Sunday that left at least 10 people dead and 14 wounded, according to independent radio reports. 
The dead included four re­puted agents of the ousted Duvalier family dictatorship lynched by a mob and six protesters shot by soldiers, the reports said. 
Government and military officials denied there had been an attempt to free coup leader Roger Lafontant and said he and his 15 alleged conspirators remained under heavy guard at the National Penitentiary. 
A Kuwaiti Air Force officer escorts American news photographer Joe Mahoney off flight line at an east­
package meets the base need
ern Saudi Arabian airbase Thursday. Mahoney, a UPI photographer from Richmond, Va., is one of many 
for the year when the student 
newsmen who have encountered restrictions in their efforts td cover the hostilities. 
Radio reports said the dis­turbances began before day­break as slumdwellers erected barricades of flaming tires and debris in many sections of Port-au-Prince, capital of this impoverished nation of 6 million. 
In suburban Carrefour, sol­diers opened fire on an unruly crowd, killing at least six protesters, Radio Haiti Inter said. It listed 14 as wounded. 
Witnesses said a police sta­tion was burned in Carrefour and that the Army opened fire on the crowd. One of the killed was a blind musician, organist Ulrick Pierre. 
In a separate incident, Radio Metropole reported a 
Monday, January 28, 1991 
enters the University but it does so without compensating for tuition increases. Such a policy leads to minority drop outs as the financial burden on the family of the student increases, the member said. 
"The University is actively recruiting minority students onto campus. Once they are recruited, tuition is steadily increasing but the financial aid packets do not increase. The University talks of a commitment to minority recruitment. They should make more of an effort to keep those students here," the member said. 
Joseph Russo, the director of Financial Aid, said that the total amount administered by the Financial Aid office exceeds $65 million; this money comes from a variety of sources including, but not limited to, outside scholarships, ROTC, work­study, loans, university scholarships and grants. 
"Minority enrollment is ap­proaching 15 percent; it is reasonable to figure that the amount of assistance from all sources is at least proportional to that enrollment. It is probably beyond that, at least on an undergraduate level. Minority students are often needier than non-minority students," Russo said. 
There are no race exclusive scholarships offered through the Office of Financial Aid at Notre Dame and the Financial Aid office does not target a certain amount of money each year for minority students, he said. 
"All assistance includes as an absolute factor financial need," he said. "Any decisions are based on whether students need money or not. Any program includes a financial need factor. If there is no need, there is no money given." 
The Board of Trustees' deci­sion last year to set as a goal the meeting of all demonstrated needs for all students should benefit both minority and non-minority students, he said. 
"We could probably always be doing a better job-for all students, including minorities. But I think the University has made great efforts in recent years to provide us with additional funds to meet needs," he said. "This year is the first year after the Board of Trustees decision with additional resources and as a result hundreds of students have benefitted-both minority and otherwise." 
Tuesday The Observer will examine the Office ofMinority Student Affairs and club funding. 
mob lynched four men reputedly linked to the 29­year Francois "Papa Doc" and son Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier dictatorships, which ended in 1986, It said the victims' bodies were burned. 
By 7 a.m. EST, general calm was restored after the Army High Command and Port-au­Prince Mayor Evans Paul an­nounced in separate broadcasts on state radio that rumors to free Lafontant were unfounded. 
Paul said Paul Jean Mario of the militant National Front for Change and Democracy, which nominated him for office, was stabbed in the back when he tried to persuade the mob to go home. 
AP Photo 

there is a problem in the number of minority faculty on campus, said Provost Timothy O'Meara, but they believe this problem is a national one, not one specific to Notre Dame. 
"We know there is a problem, not just at Notre Dame, but in the country," he said. 
As evidence of this shortage in minority faculty, O'Meara pointed to the number of indi­viduals who got their Ph.D.s in mathematics last year. There were 1,000 new mathematics Ph.D.s last year, but only four of these, or .04 percent, were African-Americans, he said. 
Notre Dame is working on programs to remedy the shortage of minority professors on campus by participating in joint programs with Xavier University, Coca-Cola, and Ford and by making "very nice offers" in recruiting minority professors, he said. 
The shortage of minority professors can only be reme­died by the development of the "pipeline" producing new professors, O'Meara said. To get more minority professors there must be more minority doctoral students, and to get more minority doctoral students there must be more minority undergraduates. 
Financial aid 

An adjustment in University financial aid policies toward minorities is among SUFR's demands. SUFR would like to see student financial aid pack­ages readjusted to take into account the fact that a student's financial need will change as tuition increases. 
A SUFR member said that a student's financial aid 

Business 

Monday, January 28, 1991 
Pan Am refuses Iraqis on all flights 

NEW YOHK (AP) -Pan Am~rican World Airways' re­ported ban on Iraqi passengers sinee war b~gan in the Persian Gulf is discriminatory and vio­lates the U.S. Constitution, an Arab-Am~riean leader said Saturday. 
M. T. Mehdi. president of the American-Arab Helations Committe~ and the National Council on Islamic Affairs, said lw has called on Pan Am to re­sdnd the direetive and apolo­giz~ to Iraqis and Arab­Americans. 
Since the war commenced last week, Pan Am has ordered its ground staffs to refuse all Iraqi nationals on domestic and in­ternational riights, reported The New York Times in Saturday's editions. 
Quoting an unidfmtified Pan Am employe~. th~ n~wspaper said the ban applied to Iraqi visitors as well as legal resident alifms in the United States .. 
Pan Am spokesp~rson Pam~la Hanlon declined to discuss the airline's security measures. 
Mehdi said a Pan Am spokesperson with whom he spoke on the telephone Saturday confirmed the policy. lie said he sent a letter of protest to Pan Am. 
"Some friends of ours had ex­perienced this and had called us complaining," Mehdi said. 
Last week, two Iraqis with resident alien status in the United States were denied seats on a Pan Am flight to London, he said. 
"It is a violation of the consti­tution," he said. "A resident here has all the rights of a citi­zen except that he doesn't vote." 
Mehdi called the policy an ex­ample of Arab-Americans be­coming targets of discrimina­tion and hostility. He said hun­dreds of Arab-American lead­ers have been questioned by the FBI agents working to deter terrorism. 
"There is an attempt to justify war by creating the fear of po­tential Arab terrorism," he said. 
Patriot rockets for Gulf war produced in Indianapolis 
INDIANAPOLIS (APl -Elnctrie generators for the Patriot rockets used in the Persian Gulf war are made by Gen!lral Motors Corp.'s Allison Gas Turbin!l division in Indianapolis. 
The Patriot rockets have been successful in intercepting Iraqi Scud missiles. 
Allison won the contract to build the generators in August 19HO, said spokesperson Anthony Perona. 
lie would not comment on the ~~xact number of generators Allison has built or if it has bmm askHd to build more. 
Haytheon Co. of Lexington, Mass., d~veloped the Patriot as prime contractor for the U.S. 
Army. 
The missile went into produc­tion in 1980, the same year Allison generator sets were ordered for the project. 
The generator is based on an Allison engine developed in the 1970s. According to Perona, the Allison engine was developed as a turbine engine for trucks. 
Although the use of engines in trucks never panned out, the generator was deemed suitable for the Patriot, he said.] 
Allison is principally known as a builder of turbine engines. These engines are typically used for commercial and military helicopters and airplanes. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Saudi Arabia will contribute $13.5 billion to help defray U.S. costs of the conflict with Iraq over Kuwait, Secretary of State James Baker announced Saturday night. 
Baker said the contribution is for the first three months of the year. It follows pledges in the past week of $13.5 billion from the overthrown Kuwait government and $9 billion from Japan. 
The contributions "clearly un­derscore the strength and de­termination of the coalition," Baker said, referring to the 31 nations who have united in an attempt to force Iraq to relin­quish Kuwait. 
Baker says the Saudi pledge is the amount requested by the Bush administration. Pledges from other nations are ex­pected, he added. 
He announced the Saudi pledge after meeting at the State Department with Soviet Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh. 
President Bush said on Friday he was "very pleased with the cooperation and participation from foreign countries" in fi­nancing the war. 

"The burden sharing is com­ing along pretty well," the president added. 
Bush rushed U.S. troops to defend the Saudi oil fields after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August. Some members of Congress have questioned whether the Saudis had contributed enough in light of mounting profits from their oil production. 
Last year, the Saudis con­tributed $3.65 billion in aid to nations such as Egypt and Syria that participated in Operation Desert Shield and $3 billion in 
U.S. support. 
Baker and other Bush admin­istration officials have defended the monarchy against accusations the Saudis were making windfall profits. 
Saudi officials had indicated earlier that the kingdom would contribute about 40 percent of what the Bush administration intended to raise from wealthy countries. 
The gulf war is estimatnd to cost at least an estimated $600 million a day, according to U.S. officials. That figure would skyrocket if the United States sends ground combat troops into Kuwait. 
Overall, the gulf war is ex­pected to cost anywhere be­tween $28 billion and $86 bil­lion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
The contributions of all gulf countries last year totaled $12 billion, including $5 billion from Kuwait. 
Baker spent much of the past week trying to line up addi­tional financial support for the war effort. In the past week alone, he conferred at least twice with the ambassadors of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. 
The administration also has asked Germany for a substan­tial increase in its 1990 contri­bution of $2.2 billion. Chancellor Helmut Kohl said his country "will continue to do everything it can" to support the anti-Iraq coalition. 


Colt pistols set record price for American guns 
NEW YORK (AP) -Two gold­inlaid pistols, one of them the mate to a gun given to the czar of Russia more than a century ago, were sold for a record $352,000, an auction house said. 
The 1851-model pistols, made as show pieces at the Hartford, Conn., factory of gun maker Samuel Colt, were purchased Saturday by an anonymous London dealer, said Roberta Maneker, a spokeswoman for Christie's auction house. 
They were sold by a British collector, who also did not want his name disclosed. 
The price was a record for American guns sold at an auc­tion, she said. 
Lavishly decorated by en­graver Gustave Young, they 
display the elaborate crafts­manship that was the trade­mark of Colt's pistols. 
One of the two is the matn to a pistol that Colt presented to Czar Nicholas I of Hussia in 1854. 
It is engraved with intricate gold-inlaid scrolls. 
These intricate gold-inlaid scrolls illustrate wolves, eagles, and serpents. It also illustrates a reclining lion, dog and cat. 
In 24 karat gold relief on the barrel are a goddess of libnrty and a mounted American Indian aiming a revolver at a buffalo. 
The Nicholas I revolver is presently in the Hermitage mu­seum in Leningrad. 

Viewpoint 
page 12 Monday, January 28, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................••• Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••..•...•Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .......•....••• Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .•••..•..... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ............•.•...... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cr.onin Systems Mgr ..•.Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ........••.•.....•..••••• Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••••.•••...••.•••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .......• Corinne Pavlis Controller....•.••.••••••••••.••.Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
r 
r­

r 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
r 
r 
r 
r Bishop's crusade against Medjugorie is scandalous
r 
Dear Editor: Church's official particularly difficult for him to sion is charged by the bishops' a reported apparition," he 
In 1984, Bishop Pavao Zanic, pronouncement on Medjugorje. accept the fact that the episco­conference to continue further responded, ''I've them on video Ordinary of the diocese of Never before in the history of pal conference has recognized with its work." tape. I don't need to go to Mostar. which includes the vil­the Church had jurisdiction for that the bishop needs to help 3. "The secretariat of the Medjugorje."lage of Medjugorje, spread evaluating the authenticity of care for the millions of faithful bishops' conference has taken This attitude is particularlythroughout the press incorrect an apparition been taken out of traveling on pilgrimage to no position on the events in interesting in light of a recent information regarding the re­the hands of a local bishop. Medjugorje, something he has Medjugorje. It is astonished and statement in Medjugorjeported apparitions in On Sept. 22, 1987, the been loath to do. is asking itself how it could Gebetsaktion, (a periodicalMedjugorje. On May 2, 1986, in bishop's actions elicited another On Jan. 5, 1991, Vienna­happen that the Italian news translated into seventeen an unprecedented move by public response, this time from based Medjugorje Gebetsaktion agency ASCA could have come languages and publishedchurch authorities, jurisdiction a member of the first two found it necessary to issue a by such information." throughout the world) by Msgr.for ruling on the reported commissions, Fr. Ivan Reaction to the "Kathpress" From an interview with Paul Hnilica, S.J., Auxiliaryapparitions in Medjugorje was Dugandzic: "Father Bishop, report of Jan. 3, 1991, Cardinal Kuharic on Croatian Bishop of Rome: "When I speak taken out of the hands of Msgr. you persist in not allowing any "Bishops on Medjugorje: T.V. on Dec. 23, 1990, one can with people who doubt about Pavao Zanic. occasion to escape in order to 'Nothing Supernatural.'" conclude that the Yugoslavian Medjugorje then I always
But Bishop Zanic wasn't to be slander or morally destroy ev­The following emerges from bishops' conference-including counsel them, 'Come and see!'
'r stopped. Fourteen months 
ery person bound to information received from the the Cardinal personally-is This is the answer that the
r 
later, on July 25, 1987, with Medjugorje. You are hoping secretariat of the Yugoslavian taking a positive stance towards Savior also once gave. I myself 
r 
miter and crosier from the altar also of destroying Medjugorje Bishops' Conference and from the events in Medjugorje. have often been in Medjugorjer of St. James in Medjugorje, he itself." The bishop had never several members of the investi­Kuharic said, "It appears that for I see it as my obligation tor r declared, "I am by divine right tried to keep his position secret, gating commission that is re-certain circles are in very much form my own judgment. r the pastor, the teacher of the saying: "Either I or Medjugorje of a hurry to distribute Concerning no other pilgrimage faith, and the judge in questions must die." incorrect reports concerning site do people speak so much regarding the faith" in In fact, 29 months later, the Medjugorje within the public about today as Medjugorje.~ Medjugorje. He declared that April 1, 1990 issue of the 
mind, and by this to create a Both sides, for and against, can anyone traveling on pilgrimage National Catholic Register prejudgment before the official have certain reasons. As to Medjugorje was doing so in published throughout America report of the Yugoslavian bishop, in order to know where disobedience to the church (not Zanic's response to the bishops' conference becomes the truth is I must scrutinize it withstanding the Pope himself question. "What do you, as a 
known. Through this, closely, all the more so because often having encouraged bishop, want to have happen in 
apparently, confusion is the church has not yet spoken Bishops to make private pil­Medjugorje? What could the supposed to be brought about, any judgment concerning it of­
grimages and more than once Franciscans and the parish­
so as to render more difficult a ficially, and already millions of sending his personal blessing to ioners there do to work with 
possible positive decision." people from all over the world the visionaries). you?" Zanic leaned back in his 
The theme for the June 14-are making pilgrimages there. Furthermore, he forbade any chair and said, "Simple. I want 
16, 1991 National Conference Therefore, I, myself, go there,priest who believed that Our Medjugorje destroyed" (The re­
on Medjugorje at the University for when one sees a thing from Lady was appearing in porter was later to admit that it 
of Notre Dame in America is, up close he can better judgeMedjugorje to say Mass there was out of charity to the bishop "You will know them by their concerning it. I find that each (such an indiscriminate decla­that he had added, when fruits." Our Lord's words apply bishop (who, of course, is the ration was invalid according to quoting the bishop's response, to Bishop Zanic as well. His re­guardian of the faith), should go 
canon law). He concluded his "...as a phenomenon" in cent actions have once again there in order to form for homily in St. James by stating parenthesis). degraded the episcopal office. himself a judgment, with all the that anyone who purports that Today, Bishop Pavao Zanic It is scandalous that Bishop possibilities of checking and in­Our Lady was giving messages continues his crusade to sponsible for the events in Zanic doesn't take his respon­vestigating, 'Is it true, or not?' in Medjugorje "Deserves the "destroy Medjugorje." It is Medjugorje: · sibilities more seriously. Last When he is there with the heart lowest place in Hell!" widely acknowledged that he 1. "As of this date, the February, I spent an hour and a and the eyes open, then he has 
That July 25 homily was has recently leaked distorted investigating commission has half with him. Our discussion to come to the conclusion: It is spread across America by the information to the press re­offered no definitive judgement was videotaped. In answer to genuine!"Catholic News Service and garding the stance of the concerning the supernatural my plea, "It would show great Denis Nolan caused much confusion. Yugoslavian Bishops' confer­character of the events in openness on the part of Your Director Catholic papers carried the ence on the reported appari­Medjugorje." Excellency if you would come Queen of Peace Ministries 
story, believing it to be the tions in Medjugorje. It must be 2. "The investigating commis-to Medjugorje and pray during Jan.22,1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5H&'5NOT 
CDAT~

H&R&, Mil<&. 
N(JT...

9ft'S OUT 
OH,NO...

HlmNGA 
5Al&. 
I 

ANO IT'5 MA0£3. h/C/1 7HAT 
&NTI!?&L.Y ff?I)M W£4,V, MIN!<S IAJHO {f},+1· aJNOf&S IT. 
MITTW 5t/l&lt:Je \ IN 7H/J. UIIW. / 
I 

'Every time a child is born it brings with it the hope that God is not yet disappointed with man.' 
Rabindranath Tagore 
Viewpoint
Monday, January 28, 1991 page 13 
Personal ads attack homosexual concerns, destroy trust 
By J. Michael Vore Guest Columnist 
Thn Observer ran two per­sonal ads in its Dec. 14 edition that need not bn forgotten, even though wn have been away this past month, and, though, as a country, we're at war. 
The personals 'spoofed' the ads usually run by Gays and Lnsbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the organization which unofficially offers support and information to students qunstioning their sexuality on thnse two campuses. 
The first one said, "Are you GAY or Lesbian? Feel out of place hern? Do you need a friend to talk to?" and then listed four Notre Dame under­graduates to call. 
The second said, "GAY or LESBIAN? Are you lonely tonight? No need to worry about parietals!" and listed the same four students. 
I lad these ads made light of a battered women's group, or had thny usnd an ad for racial minority students to poke fun at others, there would be no 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
question that they were morally inexcusable. There's no differ­ence where lesbians and gays are concerned. The author of the ads needs to be labeled a heterosexist bigot. ('Heterosexist' refers to the assumption that everyone is heterosexual, as well as to the social structures which serve to elevate or enforce heterosexuality while subordi­nating or suppressing homo­sexuality). 
The great mistake in both of the ads is they destroy the tiny bit of trust of some student out there trying to come to terms with her or his sexuality, trust that was placed in the or­ganization that placed the originals. When it comes to dealing with an issue so charged as one's sexual identity, true and open discussion begins with such trust. These deceptive ads destroy that trust, so we've lost a great deal. 
The damage cannot be re­paired. Assurances that it won't happen again may not be enough for the one student who, on those last days before break, thought that was the time to make an effort, only to find that he or she had been caught in some stupid prank. It's hard enough to come out of the· closet that society tries to relegate you to without crap like this to contend with. 
This was not a joke played on four students who ended up be­ing named at the end of those ads. It was a joke pushed in the faces of all students working for fully realized lives on this campus. That means all of us. 
The ads make light of lesbian and gay concerns, and, in so doing, they attack all minority concerns and basically reiterate the unspoken truth at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: unless you're a straight white male, or here to serve him, you will not be taken seriously. 
It's a good lesson to learn at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. As it is here, so it is in most of America and America's world. 
Of course, this bothers few students. They fully expect to be part of the white male hier­archy. Most of the men here have always been on top, so why should it change in the real world? And the women here, though they talk about inde­pendence and work hard for it, know that success in the corpo­rate world means emulating or serving the majority of white males. 
As undergraduates, you think you'll be the ones who will be served by all others. Some day you'll learn differently, and then you won't be laughing. Instead of making fun of the marginalized people of this country, you'll have made the surprising discovery that you are now a part of them. You will have been marginalized, important only to the extent that you serve other, corporate goals. 
The numbing reversal of fortunes may very well enlist you in the ranks of the number one self-help organization espoused by Notre Dame grad­uates: Alcoholics Anonymous, or, instead, send you looking through the newspaper in whatever city you've been moved. You'll be looking through the classifieds for a support group that understands what you're going through. I hope you don't hear: "Sorry,
. 

wrong number." 
You're probably laughing at this now-1 am pushing an ex­treme scenario. It's one I would have laughed at it when I was here in 1986. But it's not really that funny, nor is it that extreme-so I discovered after being in the "real world" for four years. Now that I'm back, it seems my penance is bearing witness to the same arrogance that left me unprepared for the "real world." That is, of course, why I'm writing this. 
Do yourself a favor: wake up to reality before you leave Notre Dame. You'll find an amazingly diverse world that's full of many more fun and interesting things that white bread/white male power, and most of the things you've always assumed. 
I know you won't wake up, even as I write. Things like that don't happen until they're forced upon you. Good luck, anyway. 
J. Michael Vore is a graduate student in the English Department's Creative Writing Program and a 1986 Notre Dame graduate. 
U.S. should look to the future and commit to peace now 
Dear Editor: in the region. It can be argued there waiting for us to claim it. will we be willing to change the United Nations in all its deci­
"What arn we doing in the that this wave of aggression by After this war there will be conditions that allowed this sions concerning world peace Middle East: why are we fight­Hussein, but is that peace, or others, unless we look forward aggression in the first place and order, or will the status ing?" A good qunstion, one that even peace of mind? now and commit our efforts to and finally work toward true quo remain? wants to be asked and needs to The successful conclusion of making peace in the region. I peace in the region? Will we be We do have a great responsi­bn answered. "We are fighting the war will entail the freeing know it is hard to speak of as committed for peace as we bility ahead of us, and great against the naked aggression of of Kuwait and the hindering of peace when so many are en­are for war? opportunities, but only if we Saddam Hussein; we are Iraq from launching ;my fur­gaged in war, but we cannot commit now for peace. Think fighting for peace." This is one ther attacks or invasions. What allow ourselves to believe that We have taken on a new re­about why we are fighting this of the more common answers I will be left, however, will not be this war will bring us lasting sponsibility in the affairs of the war, and then think about the have heard around campus and a peaceful resolution. Iraq will peace by itself. Middle East. It is unavoidable future and the tasks ahead. Are in Observer editorials. Be very be out of the picture, leaving The U.S. objectives are clear. that the U.S. must take on this we prepared for it? For it will sure, though, we are fighting Syria as the greatest force in Are ours? The region will still responsibility, for better or for come. Think. th1i aggression that Hussein has the region next to Israel, so the be in the same state it was be­worse. Are we going to take on commanded against Kuwait. military threat of war has not fore the war. After the U.S. has the challenge for peace through Matthew Bomberger We are not fighting for peace. diminished, just changed corrected this act of aggression, the proposed peace conference St. Edward's Hall 
hands. after the status quo is restored, or by committing fully to the Jan.22,1991 
The Security Council has Furthermore, the reasons for acted under Chapter VII of its war will still be there. If Iraq charter to sanction actions by isn't the one who will control 
Anti-war protests will only divide country
member states to combat the the oil, someone else will. The 
Dear Editor: passed and the ground rules reaction by protestors. Where
"act of aggression" by Iraq. need to control as much area In the past few days I have were laid out, Hussein had were they five months agoOnce before, it acted in a simi­as possible is still present, as become more and more dis­more than enough time to think when these men and womenlar way against the act of ag­seen in Syria's domination over mayed when reading The it over and take action. His ac­were first sent? The only thing gression of North Korea against most of Lebanon and Israel's Observer. In the Jan. 17 issue, tion was none other than to stay such action does is divide theSouth Korea. The outcome of occupation of the West Bank "Campus leaders react to war in Kuwait. Basically, this gave country, just as in Vietnam,that war is well documented in and other territories. There is in Gulf" seemed extremely one the world his answer to the which led to, as President Bushour history books. The result: a always the Arab-Israeli conflict, sided. Every single person question, "Do you want war?" described, those men andreturn to the status quo, the smoldering now there 40 years asked for comment showed a He knew the options and gave women having to fight "withsame conditions that had led to with the occasional war negative viewpoint which, in us his answer when the one hand tied behind theirwar the first time. We weren't interspersed. The old reasons some cases, also seemed rather deadline expired on Jan. 15 and back."
fighting for peace that time, or for war still remain even after uninformed. I must ask why he hadn't left Kuwait. Many protestors say theyelse we might have never Hussein. 
Janet Meissner, co-chair of the In addition to this article, the support the military personnelcrossed the 38th parallel. Only Gulf Crisis Action Group, would rest of The Observer's coverage there but not the war. The mennow, 35 years under the What we will have accom­be so obviously negative. This of the Gulf War is extremely bi­and women serving in the Gulfpossibility of a renewed war in plished, however, is the addi­would not be so bad if the other ased. Things such as demon­see a lack of support for theKorea, there are signs, mere tion of a new facets in the 
side had not gone unrepre­strations and negative com­war as a lack of support for
signs, that a permanent Middle East conflicts. With the sented. Why weren't any of the mentaries end up on the front them, the people supposed topeaceful settlement might be United States now fully en­campus ROTC leaders asked for page, whereas things in support execute the war. There was al­made in this area of the world. gaged militarily against an comment-an obvious over­of the President become buried ready word in a newspaper ofArab nation, the threat of ter­sight? in the proceeding pages. This a serviceman who heard of the We have on our hands now rorism against U.S. targets, Miss Meissner shows a radi­newspaper is supposed to serve protests and was worried abouthistory in the making. Another abroad and at home, has in­calism uncalled for and very Notre Dame students, yet I see a lack of support back home.
United Nations force, under the creased. Furthermore, many unappreciated. She accuses the little evidence. Let us not put our men andleadership and guidance of the Arabs will now be embittered President of lying to the A great many people on cam­women serving in the Gulf -­United States, is launching an against the United States, re­American people. What were pus have a personal interest through such feelings of deser­attack against the openly ag­ducing U.S. influence in the re­the other opportunities avail­with a loved one in the Gulf. I tion as in the Vietnam War. Itgwssive nation of Iraq in order gion for any possible peaceful able to the President, as she am no exception. The peace hurts them, their families, and,to reverse its invasion of solution. The U.S. can now be had mentioned? Most of the protestors say they are doing as in Vietnam, may make the
Kuwait and to restore that seen as an aggresso~ even 
people asked for comment men­this for the good of the troops situation even worse.
country's legitimate govern­though it was only countering tioned sanctions, but the· gov­and to bring them home soon. If A vote to support force wasment (an Emirate, not a another aggression, and true ernment has done extensive re­things such as this would bring taken in Congress (the people's democracy). It seems unlikely peace will be even harder to search and does not see this men and women serving in the representatives), and it passed.
that these forces will fail in obtain. 
option having much success. Gulf home faster, don't you Each side had its chance, andth11ir objectives, and I hope and Mr. Hussein is obviously not think more of the families and the majority won. Why can't thepray that they will succeed, The work of peace can never going to leave by peaceful loved ones of servicepeople "American people close rankswith as little loss of life as pos­be accomplished through war. 
means. The U.N. passed a reso­would be involved? I see the as a united nation and supportsible. Open aggression, in this If we truly wish for peace, and, lution permitting force. The contrary. Most military families the democratically made deci­
impnrfect world of ours, ap­as Christians, Jews and 
President said once the resent these actions and hope sion?" I can speak confidentlypanmtly can only be countered Muslims alike, we should, we deadline passed, he would not more than anything their loved when I say I think the troopswith another aet of aggression must work for it. The barriers hesitate. What other ones serving in the Middle East would appreciate it. 
to prevent further acts of ag­of ignorance must be cleared 
information did a man like don't hear very much about
gression, or at least that seems away and understanding and 
Hussein need to make his them. Caryn Kikta 
to be the argument. justice must replace it. 
decision? Many military families also Siegfried Hall These objectives can in no After the bombs are finished Once the resolution was see this as a too little, too late Jan.18,1991
way be seen as creating peace dropping, peace will not be 
Accent 

Hana Yori gets a . •• 
By JENNIFER SOUKUP 
Accent Writer 

Ordinarily, the phrases "high adventure" and "fine dining" do not seem compatible. However, there are always exceptions, and Hana Yori of Japan is one of those instances. 
Located at 3601 Grape Road, just south of Edison, Hana Yori 
'There is . .. a small river you must cross before being seated, and a three foot golden statue of Budda that greets you at the door.' 

is not just dinner, it is an expe­rience. The decor is what you would expect from a Japanese restaurant-the waitresses wear kimonos, the walls are covered with screens, and there 
• • .thumbs up 
shrimp appetizer, vegetables, rice and green tea. Prices range from $9.95 to $19.95 per entree. 
Each course was delicious, especially the appetizer, which consisted of shrimp covered in what our chef referred to as "Japanese Cheese Whiz." We tried the steak and the chicken and shrimp combination. Both entrees were fabulous, as were the accompanying vegetables and rice. 
But the highlight of the meal is watching the dinner be pre­pared. The chef brings a cart to the table and cooks everything in front of you. Knives are fly­ing, flames are shooting, shrimp tails are soaring. It is quite a show. The chef himself was also entertaining. He tried several times to sell us a com­plete set of Ginsu knives, only slightly used. 
If the preparation doesn't sound like enough of an adven­ture, there is always the sushi bar to try. It has a fairly exten­sive menu, including several kinds of fish, octopus, eel, and something called a "Michiana Roll." Each sushi order is two pieces and costs from $3 to $4. I was told the yellow fish was good, but I was too much of a coward to try it. 
Hana Yori also offers a wide range of beer and wine, includ­ing Japanese varieties and sev­eral specialty drinks. They will accept most major credit cards, but no personal checks. 
As my esteemed dining com­panion/driver commented, "Every once in a while, this town surprises me." Hana Yori of Japan is one of those pleas­ant surprises. The food is great, as is the setting and manner in which it is served. If nothing else, it is a welcome change from pizza and BRT's. 
Chuck's quest for a new image 
Minnesota is cold. 

It's so cold that they don't even bother issuing weather advisories anymore. One step outside gives you all of the ad­vice you need: Go Back. Need­less to say, it cuts down the number of ways you can burn time during vacations. Water­slides, for instance, just aren't an option. 
So we shop. 

We do it in groups or alone in large heated shopping malls. And we do it often. Mostly, we buy cold weather clothes, but that's not all, of course. We 
!­
Hana Yori Address: 3601 Grape Road Type of Food: Japanese Price Range: $10.00 to $20.00 Atmosphere: Casual to Semi-formal is a large gong which is struck periodically. There is also a small river you must cross be­fore being seated, and a three foot golden statue of Budda that greets you at.the door. 
Even with reservations, we waited almost half an hour be­fore being seated. It was worth the wait. There are eight people seated in a horseshoe around the table. In the center is a large cooking area on which the dinner is prepared. The entrees include steak, chicken and seafood, alone or in combination. Included with each entree is soup and salad, 
shop for everything and any­thing. As a result, almost every native Minnesotan gets very, very good at it. 
I, alas, am one of the excep­tions. My whole life I've been something of a fashion illiter­ate. Even with all that practice shopping, I never really quite developed the knack. 
Which is not always the best way to be at Notre Dame. 
A frosh friend of mine once said to me, "Chuck, ya know, this sounds bad, but you've gotta like ND because people, like, know what brand names 
Chuck Young 
Fresh Perspective 

are." She looked down at my shoes and was embarrassed until she read "Reebok" through the grime. 
Now I've always been some­one who believed you shouldn't always go with the crowd. Dress how you want to dress. Act how you want to act. You know, be yourself. 
But though my old Reeboks were just plain comfortable, our conversation drove home the fact that they were also just plain ugly. 
So one especially frigid day (I'm talking 40 below here, no lie), my brother and I got the car started and went to the mall. My previously lackadaisi­cal attitude towards fashion footwear was about to change dramatically. We marched into Footlocker with a mission. 
The sales guy in the black­striped shirt took one look at my old, beat-up shoes and smirked. 
Little did he know. I didn't know exactly what kind of shoes I wanted, but just 
'You've gotta like ND because people, like, know what brand names are.' 
to get the guy in the right frame of mind, I said, "Take me to the Jordans." 
His eyes lit up like the score­board behind him. Here was a customer to be reckoned with. On a long shot, he took me over to the Reebok Pump depart­ment where even a single sale is a commissioned employees dream. 
The Reebok Pump is a combi­nation high-top basketball shoe and inflatable beach toy. Each pair comes with a small plastic pressure gauge and an 800 number to call if you over-in­flate your shoes and can't get them off. Good for Bungee cord jumping, but not my style. 
So the referee or shoe sales­man or whatever took me over to the Nike section. But before we got to the Jordans he intro­duced me to the latest concept in athletic footwear. They were black and white with neon rac­ing stripes and dark mesh be­low the ankle. Breathable toes and everything. My brother thought they were the obvious choice. 
'The latest concept in athletic footwear. They were black and white neon racing stripes and dark mesh below the ankles.' 
I decided to Just Do It. The results are awesome. 
No longer do I need to change shoes when I switch from bas­ketball to tennis. Or soccer to football. Or jai alai to squash. 
I Crosstrain. 

The guys in the dorm were impressed. Timm wanted to know if my new shoes "like eat and need to be fed. Those are wild." 
And it wasn't long after I bought my new Crosstrainers that I began to improve in all kinds of sports. You don't even need to be wearing them to re­alize the benefits, as my recent 210 bowling score shows. So I highly recommend Crosstrain­ing to all of my friends. I mean, you just can't explain away those kind of results. 
It's Gotta Be the Shoes. 

Want to read about yourself in the paper? Write to: Chuck. c/o Accent. 3rd Floor of LaFor­tune. 

The Observer 

Monday,January 28, 1991 

Irish matmen capture National Catholics title 
Good 

News For Anyone

oHas One Of These. 

American Heart 
•
Association 


By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

Surfing on a wave of confi­dencll, the Notre Dame wrnstling team hosted and ran away with the 1991 National Catholic Championships yester­day at the A.C.C. 
Thn Irish, who amassed 
120.75 total team points en route to their fourth consecu­tive Catholic Championship, placBd first in the field of nine tnams, follownd by .John Carroll (6H), Snton Hall (45), Marquette (33.75), Manhattan College (27.25), LaSalle (25.50). Boston Collnge ( 17.50). Siena II eights (1]) and Dayton (7.75). 
"Our goal was to be relaxBd and have fun," stated Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann, who was named Coach of the Year at the conclusion of the meet. "I believe we accomplished that goal. We executed really well. Our kids did a good job against some tough opponents. Their confid11nce has carried over from Oregon, who is now ranknd 13th. 
"We'ro feeling good, and we had a certain something -a mental toughness -that the other kids just didn't have. That mental toughness is a product of our strength of schedule, and I think that this meet proves that a strong schedule helps you to be tough when you go down a level of competition. 
"Every kid who wrestled in the finals, and in the whole tournament. did a great job," continued McCann. "I thought that we should have won nine of the titles; I was surprised that we did so well at 134 pounds, though." 
In the 134-pound bracket,. Notre Dame's Brian Foy, a true freshman who walked onto the team last week, fell to top­ranked Dave Buckiso of John Carroll 12-6 in the opening match. lie then went on to reg­ister a 14-9 consolation round win over Alex Pollina of Manhattan College before falling, 7-2, to third-place win­ner Rocky Majkowski of Marquette. 
The long day of wrestling proved to be a great day for the Irish, as freshman Chris Jensen battled his way through the 118-pound bracket to win the championship 3-1 in overtime over senior Nick Salatino of John Carroll. 
"The little guy sets the tone for us," said McCann, referring to Jensen. "Chris really showed his composure, especially in overtime." 
At 126 pounds, Notre Dame junior Marcus Gowens contin­ued his season-long rampage of excellence, as he pinned LaSalle's Chris Shalbert at the 
3:48 mark to seize first place. 
Senior Mark Gerardi sur­passed the 100 career victory plateau en route to winning the 167-pound division. Gerardi, whose 101 career wins are the eighth most of nine Irish cen­tury winners, won the champi­onship with a pin of LaSalle's Brian Mahoney (1:58), a 4-3 win over John Carroll's Judd Smith, and a 12-8 dumping of Marquette's Bill Kumprey. 
J.J. McGrew, a freshman from Cleveland, Oklahoma, also continued to impress onlookers as he blazed his way through the 177 -pound bracket to score an impressive 20-9 major deci­sion in the championship match against Manhattan College's Bill Pollard. McGrew advanced to the first-place match with pins over Shannon Watson of LaSalle (2:49) and Keith Soloman of Boston College (4:50). 
"I was really pleased with J.J. McGrew," declared an exuber­ant McCann. "He is definitely back in his pre-injury form. Personally, I thought that he was the best wrestler in the tournament." 
The Outstanding Wrestler award, however, went to Vinnie Ernst of LaSalle, who recorded a major decision and two falls to win the 158-pound division. 
Heavyweight Curt Engler, a junior from Peru, Iowa, also came through for the Irish. Engler pinned his first oppo­nent, Ryan Jones of Dayton (2:07), before registering deci­sions over Mark Miedzielec of Siena (11-3) and Dan Single of John Carroll (10-1) to grab the top spot. 
Jamie Boyd (142 pounds), Todd Layton (150 pounds), and Steve King (190 pounds) also won championships for Notre Dame. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314laFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must ba prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

~N_O_T_~_Es~JI~_W_A_m_E_D~ 
USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO ave and Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Please join us in our prayer for peace at the Center for Social Concerns chapel each weekday evemng at 5:15. 
Pax Christi-NO 
PORTUGUESLANGUAGE TUTOR: BRAZILIAN GRAD STUDENT, CALL ROSALI 283-4629 
LOST/FOUND 
·HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY NIGHT THREELOOSEKEYS. ROOM #115, P.O. BOX 1214. AND A BUSINESS KEY-AROUND ALUMNI. MORRISSEY, OR LA FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK YOUII 
LOST: Men's Pulsar watch, 
gold with white face and 
brown leather band. 
Sentimental value. If found 
please call Heidi at #21 08. 
Lost on Fri. 1/18/91 between Cushing and Alumni: key ring with 6 keys (3 dorm, 2 car, 1 house). Reward. Call x1209. 
LOST: GOLD RIM FRAMED GLASSES. POSSIBLY LOST BETWEEN BP AND 02. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X1279. NEEDED IMMEDIATELY-AM BLIND W/0 THEM. THANKS. 
LOST: Clear plastic dress bag filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. Was left hung over wire fence behind Breen-Philips on Dec. 21. Sweater of great sentimental value inside. If found, please call Erin at x1458. 
LOST: Blue Swatch between Dillon and Hurley, Tues., 1/22. Sentimental Value. Please call Chris x1851 
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of a link design. Great sentimental value. Reward. Phone 2156 (Maria). 
FOUND: portable CD player call Tom at 1155 SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS. HOCKEY, HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE. LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
ATTENTION 
CAMPUS BANDS: Local restauranVIounge is looking for college bands to perform. For further information call 272-8954. Ask lor Amy Razz 
........................ 
NUCLEAR ENGINEERING AND PROPULSION *The finest nuclear engineering training program in the world, emphasizing theory and plant operation. 
•A$4,000 bonus. *A $1,200 per month retainer during your junior and senior years. • A starting salary of $28,000 
annually. QUALIFICATIONS 
"Must be ago 26 or less at Umo of graduation from an accrodlllld tour-year college with aminimum 3.0 GPA. "Must have aminimum of one year of caluwlus and physics (calculus-based) with a"B" average or bet111r In all techn leal/Science courses. "Must be a U.S. citizen with 
correctable 20120 vision and normal color percepUon. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, 
Call Navy Management Programs 1-800-527-8836 
Intelligent hardworking indi­viduals sought for book trade. 15+ hours/wk. $5/hr. Call 288-1 002 after 5 pm. Send resume to PO Box 4621, S. Bend, IN 46634 
SPRING BREAK 1991 ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL or STUDENT ORGANIZATION to promote the two most popular Spring Break destinations. Daytona Beach and Cancun Mexico. Earn free trips and cash $$$111 Call now. 1-800-256 1799. Student Travel Services. Ask for T.J. 
GRAPHIC ARTIST STUDENT NEEDED FOR FREE LANCE WORK. CALL I HAD 233-4493. 
MACINTOCH EXPERTISE NEEDED. WE HAVE SOFTWARE­NEED HELP INSTALLING AND CLEANING UP. CALL I HAD 233­4493. 
SPRING BREAK 1991 Join thousands of college students in Daytona Beach or Cancun, Mexico. Package starting from $99.00 U.S. plus tax. Organize a · group and travel for free. Call T.J. at S.T.S 1-800 265-1799. 
FOR RENT 
FREEDOM I Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to campus. Only $150/month. Call Paul287-2159. 
SHARP houses, '91-'92 yr. Many extras. 288-5653 or 234-3831 
2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-3616 

NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS. 
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
Quaint apts. near N.D. -upstairs 1 bedroom $255 -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 deposit, reference 616-483-9572. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 

Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
FOR SALE 

CHEAP AIRLINE TICKETS from South Bend to Dallas Feb 7-10. Call 259-6748. Best Offer. 
TICKETS 
I Need one Duke ticket Dan x2042 
I PERSONALS 

A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY $99! SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 2 YR. OLD-Mornings 8-12 or 1 pm, T-Th. or M-W-F. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call 234-8743. 
GRAD STUDENT TEACHING 
"The Role of Graduate Student Teaching in University Education' 
Dr. Michael Salemi 
Monday, Jan. 28, 7-9 p.m. CCE Auditorium 
Refreshments Provided 
ROCKET, THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES. GOD BLESS YOU. YOUR MANY FANS. 
3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Daytona Beach or South Padre Island For INFO and sign-up Wed., Jan. 30 
IMonfrPol:>rn•Pnl Theater 

•uuoJ'tuite 7p.m. Daytona 
8 p.m. 5. Padre call Jenn 284-5087 

I SENIORS I Cubs Games-Cedar Point­Beach Trips! 
Fun During Our Last Month at Notre Damel 
Join the SENIOR MONTH COMM.II 
Any SENIOR Interested in 
planning fun events during 
Senior Month is wanted II Please submit name, phone#, and area of interest to Sr. Class Office by Wed. 1/30 II 
GREG SCHECKENBACH IS VANILLA ICE I I I (minus the lightning bolts shaved in his head ...) 
WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON'T MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL 1-800-427-7 
ADOPTION: Christian couple seeks to adopt white infant. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad and answer our prayers. Please call Harry and Melody collect at (219) 259-0585 any time. 
"Prayers for Peace" daily at the Grotto, 5:00-5:15 p.m. 
INTERESTED IN MIDDLE EAST AFFAIRS ??? Fr. Patrick Gaffney, esc. an expert on the Middle East will present'The Middle East:Burdens of the Past, Choices for the Future' tonight at 7 pm in Siegfried Hall. There will be a discussion and question period. All are welcomed to 
attend. 
Anyone interested in playing at "The Coffeehouse' contact Jim@ X4061 
I need a ride to Cleveland­John Carroll 2/1-2/3 call Lisa X3882 

NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 1991? 
Earn $500-1000 weekly 
stuffing envelopes. For details -Rush $1.00 with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 Laura! Hill Orlando Fl.32818 
Top 5 quotes from Sr. Bar with the Lushes of LeMans: 
5. "We want Debbie .... to do our laundryI" 
4. "Let's go blow up some mailboxes I" 
3. "I knew a girl there until she got killed at the 7-11 in the frozen food section." 
2. "Is he a "ick wad?!' 
1. "I looked in the mirror and I saw the cutest person ... and It was MElliI" 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, summer, J-term, Graduate, and Internship programs. All programs run under $6000. Call Curtin University at 1­800-878-3696. 
Send $1 to p.o. box 364 ND,IN 46556 
Alex: Du kannst mich am Schwanz lutschen 
Bridget-
Even though we don't have the chair anymore, I hope we'll·still be able to call you "spot' I 
LOST: Winter Coat containing ID, keys, liscence. Removed from 1st floor Zahm Friday night. Call 4053 
American Heart Association 

... 
----------~-----~~--~-~~­
----~---------­
~pa~g~e~1~6-----------------------------------~()~t)c)~ftj-------------------------M_o_nd_a~y~,J_a_n_ua~~~2_8~,_19_9_1 
-~~ 
NHL STANDINGS  MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS  SUPER BOWL BOX SCORE  
WALES CONFERENCE Paick OMeion w L NY Rangers 27 17 Philadelphia 26 22 Pittsburgh 27 21 New Jersey 20 21 Washington 23 26 NY Islanders 17 27 Adllma Dlvlalon Boston 29 16 Montreal 28 19 Buffalo 21 19 Har11ord 22 23 Quebec 10 32 CAJri>BEll CONFERENCE Nonie OlvWon w L Chicago 33 15 St. Louis 28 15 Detroit 22 24 Minnesota 15 29 Toronto 12 33 Smythe lllvieioo Los Angeles 28 17 Calgary 26 20 Edmonton 24 22  T 8 6 3 10 3 6 8 5 10 5 9 T 4 7 5 9 5 5 5 3  I'll 62 58 57 50 49 40 66 61 52 49 29 I'll 70 63 49 39 29 61 57 51  GF 190 182 221 184 165 140 191 173 179 147 145 GF 176 189 172 158 143 204 208 165  Gill 159 170 189 174 175 181 167 153 166 167 228 Gill 134 154 186 182 212 161 169 157  Home 14-7-5 14-9-4 16-11-1 14-7-6 12-10-2 10-14-3 17-6-3 16-8-2 11-7-6 12-10-3 5-14-6 Home 18-7-2 13-6-5 18-8-0 9-14-4 7-18-2 16-6-3 13-7-1 14-9-1  Away 13-10-3 12-13-2 11-10-2 6-14-4 11-16-1 7-13-3 12-10-5 12-11-3 10-12-4 10-13-2 5-18-3 Away 15-8-2 15-9-2 4-16-5 6-15-5 5-15-3 12-11-2 13-13-4 10-13-2  Div 9-7-3 8-10-5 13-9-0 8-11-5 12-10-1 7-10-4 12-7-3 11-6-3 6-9-4 7-10-3 5-9-5 DIY 14-6-1 13-6-2 9-9-2 3-12-3 5-11-2 9-7-3 11-6-2 9-10-2  How the Aaaoclatld Pntaa' Top 25 •ama f.-..:1 tliaweek: 1. UNLV (15-0) beat UC Santa Bartbara 88-71; beat Louisville 97-85. 2. Arkansas (20-1) beat Texas A&M 113-88; beat Baylor 73-68. 3. Indiana (18-2) lost to No.4 Ohio State 93-85; beat Michigan 70-60; beat No. 22 Michigan State 97-63. 4. Ohio State (17-0) beat No. 3 Indiana 93-85; beat Minnesota 80-70. 5. Arizona ( 16-3) beat Stanford 78-76; los\ to CaiHomla 85-78. 6. Syracuse (17·3) beat No. 21 Georgetown 58­56; lost to Providence 92-82. 7. North Carolina (14-3) beat Wake Forest 91-81; lost to Georgia Tech 88-88. 8. Kentucky (15-3) beat Florida 81-65; lost to Alabama 88-83. 9. Duke (16-4) lost to North Carolina State 95­89; beat Clemson 99-70. 10. St. John's (15-2) beat No. 19 Connecticut 65­62; beat Villanova 58·55. 11. UCLA (15-4) lost to Oregon State 97-96, 20T; beat Oregon 90-83. 12. East Tennessee State (15·2) lost to Tennessee-Chattanooga 76-74; beat VMI 97-66. 13. Oklahoma (14-5) lost to Southwestern Louisiana 103-101; lost to No. 14 Nebraska 111· 99.  GIANTS 20, BILLS 18 BuiWo 3 9 0 7 18 N.Y.Gianta 3 7 7 3 20 Rllll CA.IIrter New York-FG Bahr 28, 7:14. D~ve: 58 yards, 11 plays. Key plays: Meggen 10 run; Hostetler 16 pass to Ingram on 3rd and 7. N.Y. Giants 3, Buffalo 3. BuHalo-FG Norwood 23, 9;09. D~ve: 66 yards, 6 plays. Key play: Kelly 81 pass to Lofton. Buffalo 3, N.Y. Giants 3. Second a.-tor Buffalo-D.Sm~h 1 run (Norwood kick), 2:30. Drive: 80 yards, 12 plays. Key plays: Kelly 20 pass to Reed; Kelly 13 pass to Thomas. Buffalo 10, N.Y. Giants 3. Buffalo-Safety, Hostetler tackled In end zone, 6:33. Buffalo 12, N.Y. Giants 3. New York-Baker 14 pass from Hostetler (Bahr kick), 14:35. D~ve: 87 yards, 10 plays. Key plays: Hostetler 22 pass to Ingram; Hostetler 7 pass to Cross on 3rd and 6. Buffalo 12, N.Y. Giants 10. Third a.-tor New York-Anderson 1 run (Bahr klck), 9:29. Drive: 75 yards, 14 plays. Key plays: Hostetler 11 pass to Meggen on 3rd and 8; Anderson 24 run on 3rd and 1. N.Y. Giants 17, Buffalo 12.  RECBVING Bullalo Reed Thomas K.Davls McKeller Lofton Tolll New York Ingram Bavaro Cross Baker Meggett Anderson Carthon TDIII PUNTING Bullalo Tutten New York Landeta PUNT RETURNS Bullalo No Edwards 0  No 8 5 2 2 1 18 No 5 5 4 2 2 1 1 20 No 6 No 4 FC 3  y~ l.g 62 20 55 15 23 19 11 6 61 61 212 61 y~ l.g 74 22 50 19 39 13 31 17 18 11 7 7 3 3 222 22 Aroig l.g 38.8 47 Aroig l.g 43.8 54 y~ l.g 0 0  m 0 0 0 0 0 0 m 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 I3J 2 I3J 2 m 0  
Vancouver 19 28 Winnipeg 17 28 Saturday'• Gan.a Montreal 4, Buffalo 1 Boston 5, Calgary 2 Har11ord 5, Philadelphia 3 Pittsburgh 6, Quebec 5 Minnesota 3, New Jersey 1  4 8  42 42  161 170  194 192  11-12-2 12-12-3  8-16-2 5-16-5  7-15-0_~ 8-6-5  14. Nebraska (17-2) lost to Colorado 88-69; beat No. 13 Oklahoma 111-99. 15. Southern Mississippi (12-2) beat Texas-Pan American 88-72; beat Louisville 84-81; lost to Cincinnati 76-69. 16. LSU (13-4) lost to Tennessee 92-89; beat Florida 76-66. 17. Pittsburgh (15-5) beat Providence 92-79; lost to No. 21 Georgetown 83-78.  Fourth~ Buffalo-Thomas 31 run (Norwood kick), :08. Drive: 63 yards, 4 plays. Key play: Kelly 19 pass to K.Davls. Buffalo 19, N.Y. Giants 17. New York-FG Bahr 21,7:40. D~ve: 74 yards, 14 plays. Key plays: Hostetler 16 pass to Bavaro on 3rd and 7; Meggen 6 run on 3rd and 5. N.Y. Giants 20, Buffalo 19.  New York No FC Meggett 2 3 KICKOFF RETURNS Bullalo No D.Smtth 4 Edwards 2 Tollla 6  y~ l.g 37 20 y~ l.g 66 24 46 33 114 33  m 0 m 0 0 0  
Chicago 5, Toronto 1 St. Louis 5, Detroit 4, OT Los Angeles 5. Vancouver 4 SuncMy'aGa.... Washington 5. N.Y.Islanders 4, OT Boston 3, Montreal 1 Calgary 5. Buffalo 4 Edmonton 3, Winnipeg 2 Monday'• a..­New Jersey at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. Minnesota at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Tund8y'a Gen.. N.Y. Islanders at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Winnipeg at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Buffalo at St. Louis, 8:35p.m.  18. Virginia (14-4) beat Davidson 71-47; beat Virginia Tech 86-61; bam Non Dame 68-&7. 19. Connecticut (12·6) lost to St. John's 65-82; lost to Seton Hall 76-82. 20. Utah (19-1) beat Colorado State 55-51; beat Air Force 62-58. 21. Georgetown (12-5) lost to No. 6 Syracuse 58·56; beat No. 17 Pittsburgh 83-78. 22. Michigan State (12-6) lost to Purdue 62-51; lost to No. 3 Indiana 97-63. 23. New Mexico State (15-2) beat UC Irvine n­60; beat San Jose State 88-58; beat Utah State 86-66. 24. New Orleans (17-2) beat Central Florida 72­64; beat Alabama-Birmingham 81-70. 25. South Carolina (14-5) beat Davidson 85-57; lost to Merrohis State 60-52. NCAA BASKETBALL SCORES  Attendance-73,813. No-show&-0. FIRST DOWNS Rushing Passing Penalty THIRD DOWN EFF FOURTH DOWN EFF TOTAL NET YARDS Total Plays AvgGain NET YARDS RUSHING Rushes Avg per rush NET YAROS PASSING ColllJieted-Att. Yards per Pass Sacked-Y ds lost  Bullalo 18 8 9 1 1-8 0-0 371 56 6.6 166 25 8.6 205 18-30 6.6 1-7  New York 24 10 3 1 9-16 0-1 386 73 5.3 172 39 4.4 214 20-32 6.3 2-8  New York Duerson Meggett Tollla DEFENSE Bullalo L.Sm~h Conlan Wright Odomes Seals Kelso Bennett Bentley B.Smlth K.Jackson Bailey  No 1 2 3 T 8 8 6 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2  y~ 22 26 48 A 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 1 0 1 1  l.g 22 16 22 s 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0  m 0 0 0 IUntJiea Rae Fal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
NBA STANDINGS I  EAST Georgetown 83, Pittsburgh 78 ~haca 85, Union, N.Y. 75  Had Intercepted PUNTS-Avg. Had Blocked  0 6-39 0  0 4-44 0  Talley Lodlch Baldinger  2 2 2  2 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  
SOUTH  TOTAL RETURN YDS  114  85  Tasker  2  0  0  0  0  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  Georgia Tech 88, North Carolina 88  Punts Returns  0·0  2-37  J.Winlams  1  0  0  0  0  
Alanllc Dlvlalan  Randolph-Macon 87, Emory & Henry n  Klckofts Returns  6-114  3-48  Drane  1  0  0  0  0  
Boston  w 30  L 11  1'1:1 .732  (B  L10 4-6  !llreek Lost2  Home 20-4  Aww.y 10-7  Coni 20-8  FAR WEST Arizona St. 58, Stanford 47  Interceptions PENALTIES-Vds  0-0 6-35  0-0 5-31  Tuten Gardner  1 1  0 0  0 0  0 0  0 0  
Philadelphia NewYor1< Washington  23 18 18  19 23 23  .548 .439 .439  7112 12 12  3-7 4-6 5-5  Lost 1 Lost2 Lost2  15-7 9-12 12-7  8-12 9-1\. 8-16  18-11 11-14 10-13  WOMEN'S TOP 25 RESUL1S  FUMBLES-Lost TIMEOFPOSS  1-0 19:27  0-0 40:33  Mueller D.Smith Tollla  1 1 64  0 0 10  0 0 2  0 1 1  0 0 0  
New Jersey Miami  14 11  27 31  .341 .282  16 19 112  4-6 3-7  Won1 Lost4  9-13 8-13  5-14 3-18  9-17 5-21  How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's  INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING  New York  
Central Dlvlalon  teams fared this week: 1. Virginia (18-1) beat Wake Forest 87-70; beat  Bullalo Thomas  No 15  y~ 135  A"ll 9.0  l.g 31  m 1  T  A  s  IUntJiea Rae Fal  
Chicago Detrott Milwaukee  29 30 27  12 13 17  .707 .698 .614  3112  8-2 8-2 2-8  Won1 Won2 Lost 5  18-3 18-1 20-1  11-9 12-12 7-16  18-7 19-6 17-11  St. John's 90-51. 2. Penn State (15-1) beat Duquesne 95-42; beat West Virginia Hl6-60.  Kelly K.Davls Mueller  6 2 1  23 4 3  3.8 2.0 3.0  9 3 3  0 0 0  Collins Reasons Howard  6 6 6  0 0 1  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  
Atlanta  24  17  .585  5  6-4  Lost2  16-6  8-11  14-15  3. North Carolina State ( 15-3) beat North  D.Sm~h  1  1  1.0  1  1  Thompson  4  0  0  0  0  
Indiana  17  24  .415  12  5-5  Won2  13-7  4-17  11-15  Caronna 79-69; lost to Maryland 81-80.  Tolll  25  166  6.6  31  2  G. Jackson  4  0  0  0  0  
Charlotte  13  27  .325  15 112  3-7  Wont  9-13  4-14  8-16  4. Tennessee (17-3) beat No. 10 LSU 79-77;  Banks  3  1  0  0  0  
Cleveland  13  28  .317  16  2-8  Lost2  8-12  5-16  9-15  beat South Carolina n-61; beat No. 15 Mississippi 64-54.  New York Anderson  No 21  y~ 102  A"'I 4.9  l.g 24  TO 1  Johnson Walls  3 2  0 1  0 0  0 0  0 0  
WESTERN CONFERENCE ~Divlalon w L  1'1:1  (B  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  5. Georgia (16-2) beat Vanderbi~ 57-53. 6. Purdue (16-1) beat No. 14 Northwestern 64­55; at Wisconsin, Sunday.  Meggett Carthon Hostetler  9 3 6  48 12 10  5.3 4.0 1.7  17 5 5  0 0 0  Guyton Taylor Marshall  2 2 2  0 0 0  0 0 1  0 0 0  0 0 0  
San Antonio  29  10  .744  7-3  Won4  16-3  13-7  21-5  7. Auburn (16-3) beat New O~eans 96-56; beat  Tolll  39  172  4.4  24  1  Bahr  2  0  0  0  0  
Utah  27  15  .643  3112  5-5  Lost 1  17-4  10-11  19-7  Florida 93-59; beat Mississippi State 89-38.  Rouson  2  0  0  0  0  
Houston Dallas Minnesota Denver Orlando  22 14 13 11 10  20 26 26 30 32  .524 .350 .333 .268 .238  8112 15 112 16 19 20112  4-6 3-7 4-6 5-5 2-8  Won2 Won1 Lost3 Won3 Lost 6  15-6 8-11 8-10 P-12 8-12  7-14 6-15 5-16 2-18 2-20  13-13 8-19 9-19 6-21 8-21  8. Stanford (14-3) beat Arizona 94-65; beat A~zona State 79-65. 9. Rutgers (15-1) beat George Washington 78­47; beat St. Joseph's 79-58. 10. LSU (15-3) lost to No.4 Tennessee 79-n; beat Tulane 71-46; beat Florida 80-68.  PASSING llullalo Kelly New York Hostetler  Cmp 18 Cmp 20  ,. 30 ,. 32  y~ m 212 0 y~ TO 222 1  Liv 61 l.Ng 22  lrt 0 lrt 0  Washington Tillman Brown P.WIIIIams Tollla  1 1 1 0 47  0 0 0 1 4  0 0 0 0 I  0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  
Pac:llc DlvWon Portland LA Lakers Phoenix  36 30 27  7 11 13  .837 .732 .675  5 7112  8-2 10-0 8-2  Won6 Won 11 Won2  2t-2 16-4 17-4  15-5 14-7 10-9  22-5 19-8 18-8  11. Arkansas (16-3) beat Texas A&M 90-66; lost to Baylor 78-n. 12. UNLV (15-3) lost to UC Santa Barbara 85­82, OT; beat UC Irvine 80-64.  SUPER BOWL HISTORY  MISSED AELD GOALS-Buffalo: Norwood 47. OFFICIALS-Referee Jerry Seeman, Ump Art Demmas, HL Sid Semon. U Dick McKenzie, BJ  
Golden State Seattle LA Clippers Sacramento  23 19 15 11  17 20 27 28  .575 .487 .357 .282  11 112 15 20112 23  7-3 5-5 4-6 4-6  Won2 Won1 Wont Los\2  14-4 14-6 11-8 10-10  9-13 5-14 4-19 1-18  14-11 8-14 11-13 8-20  13. Western Kentucky (18-1) beat Alabama State 113-69. 14. Northwestern (11-4) lost to No. 6 Purdue 64­55; beat Illinois 85-74.  1991-N.Y. Giants (NFC) 20, Buffalo (AFC) 19 1990--San Frandsco (NFC) 55, Denver (AFC) 10 1989-San Fran (NFC) 20, Cincinnati (AFC) 16 1988-Washlngton (NFC) 42, Denver (AFC) 10  Banks Williams, SJ Larry Nemmers, FJ Jack Vaughan, Replay Mark Bums. nme:3:19.  
s.turday'a Gan.a Charlotte 79, Philadelphia 75 New Jersey 127, Mlarri 105 Detron 121. Orlando 81 Dallas 99, Washington 96 Houston 1 03, Cleveland 97 San Antonio 112, Minnesota 105 Denver 120, Utah 115  Monday'• a.n-Washington at Detrok, 7:30 p.m. Boston at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Seattle at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. New York at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Atlanta at Portland, 10:30 p.m. New Jersey at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m.  15. Mississippi (13-4) beat Mlssou~·Kansas City 53-45; lost to No.4 Tennessee 64-54. 16. Washington (13-3) beat Washington State n-62. 17. Connecticut (16-3) beat No. 19 Providence 86-84; lost to Pittsburgh 61-59. 18. Texas (12·5) beat Texas Tech 66-63; beat Texas Christian 84-58. 19. Provldene<~ (15-3) lost to No. 17 Connecticut  1987-N.Y. Giants (NFC) 39, Denver (AFC) 20 1986--Chlcago (NFC) 46, New England (AFC) 10 1985--San Francisco (NFC) 38, Miami (AFC) 16 1984-l.A. Aalders (AFC) 38, Washington (NFC) 9 1983--Washington (NFC) 27, Miami (AFC) 17 1982-San Fran (NFC) 26, Cincinnati (AFC) 21 1981-0akland (AFC) 27, Philadelphia (NFC) 10 1980-Pittsburgh (AFC) 31, Los Angeles (NFC) 19 1979-Pittsburgh (AFC) 35, Dallas (NFC) 31  TRANSACTIONS BASKETBALL MIAMI HEAT-Activated Rony Selkaly, center, from the Injured list. Signed Alan Ogg, center, lor the remainder of the season. PHOENIX SUNS-Placed Kurt Rambls, forward, on the Injured list. Signed Joe Barry Carroll, center,  
Phoenix 112, New York 94 Seattle 103, Atlanta 102 LA Clippers 99, Milwaukee 98 Portland 121. Sacramento 96 SUnday'a Game LA Lakers 104, Boston 87 NBA BOX  Tueeday'a GemM Chartone at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at O~ando, 7:30p.m. Miami at Washington, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Houston, 8 p.m. Seattle at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Denver at Milwaukee. 8:30 p.m. Atlanta at Utah, 9:30 p.m. New York at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. New Jersey at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m.  86-84; beat Villanova 97-70. 20. Notre O.me (12-3) beat Dayton 79-49. 21. Clemson (13-5) beat Wake Forest 69-63; beat Georgia Tech 63-61; beat North Carolina 79­66. 22. Louisiana Tech (10-5) lost to Lamar 83-72; beat Pan Ame~can 94-64. 23. Iowa (9-6) beat Minnesota 70-51. 24. Long Beach State (9-7) lost to Funerton State 75-63; lost to Fresno Slate 73-72; beat Pacific U. 71-69. 25. Flo~da State (13-2) beat South Carolina 69­60; beat Southern Mississippi 96-76.  197~11as lNFC) 27, Denver (AFC) 10 t9n-Oakland (AFC) 32, Minnesota (NFC) 14 197~1ttsburgh (AFC) 21, Dallas (NFC) 17 197f>-Pittsburgh (AFC) 16, Minnesota (NFC) 6 1974-Miarri (AFC) 24, Minnesota (NFC) 7 1973--Miarri (AFC) 14, Washington (NFC) 7 1972-Dallas (NFC) 24, Mlarri (AFC) 3 1971-Baltlmore (AFC) 16, Dallas (NFC) 13 1970-Kansas Cky (AFL) 23, Minnesota (NFL) 7 1969-N.Y. Jets (AFL) 16, Baltimore (NFL) 7 1968--Green Bay (NFL) 33, Oakland (AFL) 14 1967-Green Bay (NFL) 35, Kansas C~y (AFL) 10  and placed him on the suspended list. HOCKEY National Hockey ...g... NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Assigned AI Stewart and Pat Conacher, forwards, to Utica of the American Hockey League lor conditioning purposes. Recalled Neil Brady, center, from Utica. MONTREAL CANADIENS-Called up Luc Gauthier, defenseman, from Fredericton of the Ame~can Hockey League and Patrice Brisebois, delenseman, from Drummondvllle of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League.  

LAKERS 104, CELTICS 87 
LOS ANGELES (104) 

Perkins 7-13 3-4 18, Green 5-7 2-2 12. Dlvac 7­12 2-2 16, Scon 6-15 0-0 12, Johnson 9-16 3-3 22, Teagle 2-7 1-2 5, ThorT1J80118-7 5-5 17, T.Smkh 1­4 0-0 2, Campbell 0-1 0-0 0, Thomas 0-0 0-0 0. 
Totals 43-6218-18104. 
BOSTON (87) 

-
McHale 6-13 3-4 15, Garrble 7-11 1-2 15, Parish 4-7 3-4 11. Shaw 9-19 2-2 20, Lewis 4-15 4-4 12, Kleine 1-3 0-0 2. Pinckney 2-2 0-0 4, Brown 2-8 2­2 8, M.Sm~h 1-1 0-0 2, Vrankovlc 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 38-79 15-18 87. 
31 22 26 25 104 30 21 21 15 87 
3-Polnt goals-4-os Angeles 2-11 (Perkins 1-2, Johnson 1-4. Dlvac 0-1, Teagle 0-1, Scon 0-3), Boston 0-0. Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Los Angeles 46 (Perkins, Green, Johnson 9), Boston 41 (McHale 8). Assists-Los Angeles 29 (Johnson 15), Boston 20 (Shaw 9). Total fouls-Los Angeles 17, Boston 18. A-14,890. 
Tuesday January 29, 1991 @7:30pm IDM Presents: MULTI-MEDIA in a DOS WORLD Montgomery Theater-LaFortune 
Sponsored by DOS Users Group 
•Information regardinF DOS Users Group will also be available. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 30. For further information, call 239-5303. 

ttOTitE DfiME WELCOMES 
LIA 
Civil Rights Advocate, Economic Justice Spokesperson for the Disinherited 

''Beyond The Dream'' 
Thursday, January 31 
8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
Institute for International Peace Studies Minority Student Affairs Black Studies ND/SMC NAACP 
All welcome-No charge 
-

page 18 The Observer Monday, January 28, 1991 
Irish meet early-season goals at Western Michigan 
By HUGH MUNDY Sports Writer 
Going into Saturday's meet at Western Michigan University, the Notre Dame men's track team had two objectives -be competitive and stay healthy. 
By posting numerous creditable performances while escaping injury during a day marred by several spills and accidents, the team managed to achieve its objectives. 
Irish head coach Tim Connelly, however, was not elated about his squad's ef­fort. 
"The meet was mediocre at best," he said. "Many guys didn't run well." 
Pole vaulter Greg Matteo got the Irish off to a promising start with an IC4A qualifying leap of 15 feet 6 inches. 
"Greg turned in the best performance of the day," commented Connelly. 
Middle distance runner Brian Peppard also turned in an outstanding effort with a second-place finish in the mile run. 
Following Peppard in 

University of Wisconsin Platteville 
• 

Emphases in Liberal Arts Ioternatiooal Business 
Courses ~vailable in Spani:lb aod in Eogli:lb 
Flueocy in Spanish not required 

-
All courses approved by UW-Piatteville aod validated on an official UW-Platteville tnucript 
$3975 per semester for Wlscomln IDII Minnesota residents $4225 per semester for non-residents

-
Costs include Tuition aod Fees Room aod Board in Spaoisb Homes Fitldtrips 
Finaocial aid applies 
For further information contact Study Abroad Prop-ailS 3418 Warner HaD UnllersiiJ of Wlsconsin-PlattnWe I Unllerslty Plaza Plattmlle, WI 53818-38" (618) 3<12-1726 

fourth place was sophomore John Coyle, who· turned in a solid 
4:13.8 mark to eclipse his previous personal best by nearly two seconds. 
In the 3,000 meter run, the Irish narrowly averted disaster as distance men Pat Kearns and Tom O'Rourke were involved in a collision which left both unable to complete the race. For-tunately, neither runner sustained a serious injury. 
In the shorter races, Connelly was more optimistic about the team's progress. 
"Some of the younger sprinters ran pretty well," he noted. "They took advantage of the chance to gain experience. 
"A lot of guys didn't com­pete as well as I would have liked.The season is 
too  short  to  waste  
opportunities."  
Notre  Dame  returns  

home next week for the Meyo Invitational, a meet which features several outstanding teams and individuals from across the United States. 
Come Talk To Us 
Careers In 
~C{Jf!!J!JC5@@G@@@!J®illl@@lf? 
~®il®fl){:rei1Ja®w 

Application for Student Executive Committee Due Friday, February 1st 1991 by 4:00 pm to Student Government Secretary • Barb 2nd Floor LaFortune Be a part of Notre Dame's ONLY 15oth Anniversary 
Belles come back to down Albion 76-71 
By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's sports editor 
In an exciting second-half comeback effort Saturday afternoon, the Saint Mary's basketball team got back on the winning track, upsetting visiting Albion College, 76-71. 
Junior guard Janet Libbing, playing on a hurt ankle, led the Belles (8-5) with 27 points, grabbing 10 rebounds and cap­turing seven steals. Albion (6-9) was led by guard Richelle Rielly's 23 points and nine re­bounds. 
Albion grabbed control early in the first half, racing to an 8­0 lead. Costly turnovers hurt the Belles as Albion extended its lead to 15 with 1:50 in the half, 37-22. Just before halftime, Libbing sank a three­pointer to cut the Belles' deficit to 37-25 at the intermission. 
"They (Albion) came to play," said Belles head coach Marv Wood. "That is the best thing an opposing coach can say. They are aggressive and they have the best blocking on the boards I have seen all year." 
"They are a good ball club and they took us out of our game," explained Libbing. "We didn't play as a team and we got discouraged." 

The Belles ignited when they returned for the second half. The team executed a 14-5 run in the first six minutes of ac­tion, cutting the lead to three, 42-39. With 11:30 left on the clock, Catherine Restovich sank one from the perimeter to tie the score at 47-47. 
Seconds later, the Belles posted their first lead on a shot by Mea Tettonborn, 49-47. The team's zone press contained Albion as the lead increased to 56-51. 
But Albion came back, executing on foul shots and stealing the lead once more, 59-58. Albion increased their lead to seven with only 3:43 on the clock, 58-65. 
However, the Belles quickly adjusted their defense, chang~ ing to a switching man-to-man, and it paid off. The Belles re­took the lead with only 1:00 left in the game, 72-71. 
With both teams missing at the foul line, the score re­mained close. In the last few seconds though, the Belles pre­vailed as Linda Garrett sank the last bucket, putting the game out of Albion's reach. 
"At the half, we decided that we'd better get all five girls working on offense and de­fense," Wood explained. "I give the girls credit. They screwed up in the first half, but made up in the second." 
"A different team came out onto the floor in the first half. There were no excuses. We knew we did bad, "added Restovich, who tallied 12 points and six rebounds. "In the sec­ond half we came out and played like we should play. There was intensity." 
The Observer 

Monday, January 28, 1991 page 19 
Henke wins Phoenix Open 
Swim teams take two on the road 
PHOENIX (AP) -Nolan Henke rolled in an 18-foot birdie putt on the final hole Sunday, ending a back-nine collapse and giving him a one-stroke victory over Curtis Strange, Tom Watson and Gil Morgan in the Phoenix Open. 
Henke, whose only previous victory in three years on the PGA Tour was in last year's 
B.C. Open, finished with an even-par 71 and a 16-under total of 268. 
The victory was worth $180,000, more than half of what the 26-year-old Henke earned last season. 
Morgan and Strange both bogeyed the 18th hole to fall to 15 under with Watson, winner of 32 tour events in 21 years but winless since the 1987 Nabisco Championship. 
Watson became the early clubhouse leader with a 65 featuring birdies on five of the last six holes. 
Morgan shot a 66 and Strange a 6 7 on the 6,992­yard TPC course. 
CLUB COLUMN 
JANUARY 28, 1991 
If you signed up for Wednesday Lunch Fast at Thursday dinner or Friday lunch at South Dining Hall, please call 283-1129 and leave your name and I.D. number. A sign-up sheet was lost. 
SARG, Student Alumni Relations Group, will meet today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Everyone is welcome to attend. 
Bacchus will have a meeting Thursday, Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
Finance Club will hold an important meeting to discuss the upcoming election, Finance Forum and Social on Wednesday, Jan. 30 at 6:30p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. 
Women United for Justice and Peace will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday, Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. at the esc. 
All club presidents should check their mailboxes outside of the club room for any of their club's mail. 
Entries for the club column are due at 5 p.m. on Thursdays in the Club Room, 207 LaFortune. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 
"Ufcoming EIIf!tlts 
WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 30 
DR. JAMES SKELLY Associate Director for international projects of the Centre for War, Peace, and the News Media at New York University; Associate Director of the Irish Peace Institute at the University of Limerick, Ireland 
Brown Bag Seminar 
"COMPARING PEACE STUDIES PROGRAMS IN THE 
U.S. AND EUROPE" 12:00-1:00 p.m.-Room 110 Law School 
and 

Lecture 
"ENEMY IMAGES" 
4:30 p.m. -Multipurpose Room, Center for Social Concerns 
Coaponaored with the Canter lor Social Concern• 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL

IIIII~N~!~ o~~?L:: 
Women handle both Vikings and Bonnies with ease 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre.Dame women's swim team proved its power on the road this weekend by downing both Cleveland State (191-1 05) and St. Bonaventure (158-141) within less than twenty hours. 
As expected, the Vikings raced significantly faster than in years past, but Irish depth controlled the meet Friday night. Notre Dame won both relays and nine of eleven indi­vidual swimming races with nine different swimmers. Diver Jenny Kipp recorded two wins in both the 1-meter and 3-me­ter diving events. 
In Saturday's meet against St. Bonaventure, the Irish women met the Bonnie challenge head­on by winning more close races and scoring maximum depth points. Although Notre Dame won only seven of fourteen individual events, the Irish scored six seconds, twelve thirds, seven fourths and won two out of three places in both relays. 

"The meet was every bit as intense, competitive, and chal­lenging as we thought it'd be," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. "It was a real tribute to how much St. Bonaventure has improved." 
Welsh was pleased with sophomore Tanya Williams' "tremendous versatility." 
"We were able to ask her to race where we needed points," he said. 
Williams won both the 100 butterfly and 200 individual medley, beating St. Bonaventure's university record holders. Other double winners were freshman Alicia Feehery (100 and 200 freestyles) and junior Shana Stephens (100 and 200 backstrokes). 
Freshman Kristin Heath cap­tured the 200 butterfly and fly­ers Christy Moston and Jean Kelly sealed the event with sec­ond and third finishes. 
Distance freestyler Susan Bodhan scored two strong sec­onds in the 1000 and 500 freestyles, while Kim Steel's re­turn from a shoulder injury paid off. Steel won c.Iose races for third in both the 100 and 200 freestyles. 

In the pool the Irish depth and versatility kept everyone fresh. "Being able to race different line ups in both meets, is key for planning. It's very demand­ing and effective championship meet preparation," Welsh said. "This weekend's results mark a big step up for us. We're learn­ing a lot about racing ... we enjoyed winning." 
Men win at St. Bonaventure for first time since 1983 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team broke the spell. 
For the first time since 1983, the Irish beat St. Bonaventure on the road, marking the first time in five years that either the Irish or the Bonnies have won on the road. The Irish raced to a rivalry-driven win over the Bonnies on Saturday, 139-92. 
"The rivalry still exists, but it's healthier than it used to be," said senior co-captain Paul Godfrey. "Our unity and depth gave us the win." 
All 19 Irish swimmers scored points against the Bonnies. Assuming there are well matched lead swimmers, Notre Dame had a definite depth advantage over St. 

Bonaventure's roster of 15 swimmers. 
"Although we swam extremely well, we were a bit fortunate that the St. Bonaventure men were a little bit flat," said Coach Tim Welsh. "The men's captains did an especially good job of helping the team race as a team." 
Co-captain Brian Rini won the 200 butterfly, 1:55.22, while co-captain Paul Godfrey followed second behind Rini in the fly and was fourth in the 1000 free behind teammates Rini and freshman Jim Doran. Co-captain Jim Byrne also scored key Irish points in the 200 individual medley and the 200 backstroke. 
"Paul had an outstanding weekend in several events," said Welsh. "It was his strongest double performance in more than a year." 
Irish depth against the Bonnies showed in the points accumulated in the events won by the only two double winners of the meet. Nathe for the Irish (100 and 200 freestyles) and Kevin Paulsen for the Bonnies in the 1000 and 500 freestyles. 
Welsh noted a noticeable internal team change for the better. Welsh attributed the team's relaxation, focus and unity to the meditation work and guidance of Dr. Roger Klauer. 
Notre Dame also competed against Cleveland State on Friday evening. Seven different swimmers won seven events to help the Irish defeat Cleveland State, 133-109. Sean Hyer recorded the single double win for the Irish against the Vikings in both the 1-meter and 3­meter diving events. 
Penguins' fans rejoice: Lemieux's returned 
QUEBEC (AP) -Mario Lemieux resumed his career as if there hadn't been any inter­ruption at all. And he got to do it in front of his family in his native province. 
"It was special to play this first match in Quebec in front of my father, my mother, my brother and several friends," Lemieux said Saturday night after assisting on three goals in Pittsburgh's 6-5 victory over the Nordiques. 


"For the past week or so, I'd set the Nordiques game as my objective, but nothing could be confirmed because from one day to the next we didn't know how I'd react to the training sessions." 
Lemieux was forced out of a game last Feb. 14, ending his 46-game scoring streak. He played only once in the Penguins final 22 games last season, scoring a goal on March 31. 
He had disc surgery last July 11, then developed a bone infection last fall that doctors said was unrelated to the earlier inj 
~'' ,, 1111 ~,:.~
Give to the Un1ted Way. 

SUMMER PROGRAM 1991 lntersession: May 27-June 14 Summer Session: June 17 -July 26 
A More than 40 regular A A short course on offerings from the German unification University's liberal arts 
culminating in a live­
curriculum. 
day study trip to Berlin. 
A A three-week French language immersion .a. Weekend excursions: 
program, featuring Normandy, Champagne, cultural walking tours Loire Valley chateaux,and conversation 
sessions. 
and Glverny. 
Send lor our 1991 Summer Program Brochure: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs U.S. Office 80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 New York. New York 10003 Tel. (212) 677-4870 Fax. (212) 47!>-5205 
A Seminar tours on Fra,_ and the European Community with New York University, the University ot Texas, the University ot New Hampshire · lnterhostel, the United Federation of Teachers. 
THE 
AMERICAN 
UNIVEilSITY 
Of PARIS 

-.. 
•" •,.. ,.,_,_.a..... • .; ~ '-·• ·~ .. -... • ,. ,· •·• ·•·•·'"' "' • • • • • • ..... ,.. • • • •-•·--••..,-• ,.. •--•..,---,. ·-" --• .. • • • ·•-• ..... ·.-~.!'~•'"•'"'·"'·•·•·"-'~r ....~.... 
----~----------~~----­

page 20 
Cavs 
continued from page 24 
with 1:40 remaining. Stith 
scored seven points in the next 
32 seconds and Notre Dame 
could manage just one Bennett 
free throw as the advantage 
slipped to 66-64. 
Bennett added another free 

throw with 25 seconds remain­
ing, but Stith answered by driv­
ing the lane for a dunk to cut 
the margin to 67-66. When 
Stith hit the free throws with 
seven seconds left, it was the 
first Virginia lead since a 17-15 
advantage with 12:46 left in the 
first half. 
Notre Dame built its biggest 

lead of the game at 33-21 late 
in the first half. Virginia scored 
eight of the last 10 points of the 
half to trail 35-29 at the half. 
Stith 
continued from page 24 
Irish coach Digger Phelps la­
mented. "I think he scored ev­
ery time he touched the ball. 
That's taking the game over." 
Virginia coach Jeff Jones did 
not seem surprised at his star's 
performance. He thought that 
the Irish foul trouble late in the 
game had a lot to do with 
Stith's success driving to the 
hoop. 
"He just made up his mind he 
was going to score," Jones said. 
"They put Bryant Stith in one­
on-one situations on our 
offensive end, and with them 
trying not to foul, he took ad­
vantage." 
Indeed, Stith's scoring run did 
come after 6-11 Irish center 
Keith Tower fouled out with 
1:52 left to play, leaving fresh­men Jon and Joe Ross to do the job inside. With Tower's size­able presence absent from the middle of Notre Dame's zone defense, Stith found himself a home right in front of the bas­ket. 
"Tower's a big body," Stith said, "and Jon Ross and his 
brother just aren't as strong inside yet." It didn't matter what defense the Irish used. 
"He just really went after it," Phelps said. "We played a 1-3-1 zone, a 2-3 zone, and a man-to­man, but we just couldn't stop him." 
Strangely enough, Stith, who was averaging 20.2 points per game coming in, didn't rank this performance as the best of his career. 
"This is definitely one of my top performances in college," Stith said, "but last year's game against Wake Forest was pretty good, too." 
In that one, Stith poured in 37 points in a 71-70 overtime triumph. Jones realizes that he has a valuable commodity on his hands, somebody who wants the ball in close games when'it counts. 
"Sometimes, when our backs-are against the wall, he just takes over," Jones marvelled. 
Stith's performance at the end of the game was especially important to the Cavaliers be­cause of the job the Irish did on Virginia guard John Crotty. Crotty, who was in foul trouble throughout the game, scored just 11 points -none in the sec­ond half. 
So although Notre Dame managed to virtually shut down Virginia's top two threats throughout the first 37:30 of the game, Stith's performance sunk the Irish once again, sad­dling them with perhaps their most disappointing loss. 
The Observer 


The Observer/Kevin Weise Daimon Sweet's 21-point effort Saturday against 18th-ranked Virginia was not enough, as the Cavaliers came back from an eight-point 
deficit with 1 :40 remaining in the contest to defeat Notre Dame 68-67. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Squash: Anyone interested in playing squash should come to Court No. 2 in the JACC today at 7:30 p.m. Any questions, contact Heather at x2880. 
Anyone interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due on Friday, Feb. 3. Any questions or comments should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 234-8817. 
Men's Volleyball Club will play today versus Ferris State at 7:30p.m., in the pit of the ACC. Admission is free, so come and enjoy some fast-paced volleyball action. 
The Tai Kwon Do Club would like to announce new practice hours this semester. The club will meet Monday's and Wednesdays from 7:30p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. Beginners should plan to be there today. 
Late Night Olympic entries are due today at the NVA office. See your hall's LNO representative to sign up for any of the events. 
ND Boxing practices have begun for the 61st Bengal Bouts. Practices are held at 3:45 p.m. every weekday in the Boxing Room. Any questions, call Norm Conley at 233-8133. 
The ND Cricket Club will have a practice and organizational meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 30 at 10 p.m. in Loftus. All interested students and faculty are encouraged to attend and bring equipment. Call Mark at x3419 or Tim at x1556 for information. 
ND/SMC Women's Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting on Thursday, January 31 at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, St. Mary's. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
SNOW REMOVAL GUIDELINES 
Effective Jan. I through March IS special guidelines are in effect for park~ng in any faculty I staff lot. All vehicles are to be removed from faculty1staff lots before midnight each night. Vehicles left in faculty/staff lots will be lowed at the owner's expenses to another University parking area. The exception to the time in which vehicles are to be removed for lowing will be the B2/C2 lot east of the Besburgh Library. ,.owing will commence from tha lot shortly after the Library closes. Vehicles will als be towed from all roadways, sidewalks, loading zones, lime zones and traffic circles. 
-------~--.. 
Monday, January 28, 1991 
Oilers defeat Winnipeg 3-2 
WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) ­Kelly Buchberger's first goal of the season with 1:40 remaining in the third period gave the Edmonton Oilers a 3-2 victory over the Winnipeg Jets on Sunday. 
Buchberger converted a per­fect pass from Ken Linseman, just four minutes after Linseman had tied the score. Craig Simpson also scored for the Oilers. 
Randy Carlyle and Ed Olczyk scored for the Jets, who had a three-game winning streak snapped. 
Two of the three previous games between the Oilers and Jets went into overtime -in­cluding a 1-0 Winnipeg victory and a 3-3 tie. 
The Oilers opened the scoring on their first shot 5:46 into the game after Simpson stripped goalie Bob Essensa of the puck, swept around the goal and con­verted into an empty net. 
But Winnipeg tied the score before the first period ended. Carlyle's shot from the point found the net while Jets winger Paul MacDermid lay on top of Edmonton goalie Bill Ranford at 16:42. 
Olczyk put the Jets ahead with a power-play goal at 11:22 of the third period, deftly flip­ping a shot between Ranford's pads, but Linseman tied it with a deflection at 14:34. 
Flames 5, Sabres 4 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -AI Macinnis broke a 3-3 tie with a third-period goal and Doug Gilmour added what proved to be the deciding goal on Sunday as the Calgary Flames beat the Buffalo Sabres 5-4. 
Buffalo had overcome a 3-1 Calgary lead on goals by Dean Kennedy in the second period and by Alexander Mogilny at 
1:25 of the third. 

Macinnis' 19th goal of the year at 6:49 came two seconds after the expiration of Theoren Finery's penalty for slashing. Macinnis took a drop pass from Joel Otto and drove a 30-footer past Buffalo goaltender Darren Puppa. 
The victory ended a three­game losing streak for the Flames and snapped Calgary's six-game road losing streak. 
Bruins 3, Canadiens 1 

MONTREAL (AP) -Ray Bourque scored 12:50 into the third period and Ken Hodge scorod into an empty net with 11 seconds left Sunday as the Boston Bruins beat the Montreal Canadiens 3-1. 
Montreal, already hurt by in­juries, lost goaltender Patrick Roy to a sprained left knee at 
3:16 of the second period. 

Dave Christian gave Boston the lead at 13:27 of the first period. Shayne Corson tied the score with a power-play goal at 
12:19 of the second. Capitals 5, Islanders 4 

LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Kelly Miller's second goal of the game, with 39 seconds left in overtime, capped a rare come­back victory for the Capitals. 
Ken Sabourin's first goal with the Capitals, at 10:26 of the third period, tied the score after Miller had pulled the Capitals to 4-3 with 16:07 left. 
Derek King scored two goals and Brent Sutter had three as­sists for the Islanders, 0-4 against the Capitals this season. Washington is 2-4-1 over its last seven games. 


L.....------------~····················~ 

Monday, January 28, 1991 The Observer 

Australian Open champions 
Presenting the 1991 Australian Open winners -Boris Becker (left) and Monica Seles. Becker defeated Ivan Lendl 1-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 on Sunday, while Seles came back from being one set down to knock off Jana Novotna 5-7, 6-3, 6-1 Saturday. 
----., 
Maxwell joins elite NBA group 
HOUSTON (AP) -What do Wilt Chamberlain, David Thompson, George Gervin and Vernon Maxwell have in com­mon? 
Very little, exeept the fact that they are the only players in NBA history to score 30 points or more in a quarter. 
Maxwell joined the elite group Saturday night, seoring 30 of his career-high 51 points in the fourth period as Houston rallied to beat Cleveland 103­97. 
"I never really thought I'd score 50 points in an NBt\ game, much less 30 in a quar­ter," Maxwell said. "I played well and concentrated, espe­cially in the fourth quarter. It wasn't a personal thing. Coach (Don) Chaney just called my plays." 
Maxwell was 14 of 25 from the field, including 4 of 10 from 3-point range. He also made 19 of 22 free throws. 
"He got incredibly hot be­cause we let him eatch the ball all the time," Cleveland coach Lenny Wilkens said. "But give him credit, he had one heck of a game and shot the ball ex­tremely well." 
Lakers roll to1 04-87 victory 
BOSTON (AP) -Magic a medium-range jumpers. After .Johnson broke open a dose Kevin Gamble scored on a game in the third quarter layup, Sam Perkins and Sunday as the Los Angeles Johnson scored on drives and !.akers routed the Boston the rout was on. CPlties I04-87 for their 11th eonseeutive victory. Boston managed to remain 
dose as Brian Shaw scored half 
.Johnson seornd 8 of his 22 of his 20 points in the third pe­points and made 5 of his 15 as­riod. sists in the third period as the !.akers slopped Boston's eight­Los Angeles Jed 79-72 going gam!~ winning streak on Super into the final quarter. After Bowl Sundays. The Celtics have Boston closed within six points lost six of their last seven over­with 10 1/2 minutes remaining, all. the Lakers went on an 11-3 
l.os Angeles was without its run. l1~ading scorer, James Worthy, who jammed his right foot Perkins had 18 points and Friday night. But the Lakers Mychal Thompson (playing his wore down the Celtics, who are 900th NBA game) scored 17 for 4-6 sincn Larry Bird injured his the Lakers. who are 30-11 at lower back. their halfway point. Vlade Divac 
scored 16, and Scott and A.C. It was just the fourth loss in Green had 12 each. 21 lwm1~ games for Boston. 
Thern were I 0 ties and the Kevin McHale and Kevin It~ad changed 21 limes in the Gamble scored 15 points each first half. which ended with Los for Boston. Reggie Lewis had 12 Angeles ahead 53-51. and Robert Parish 11 for the 
Then the !.akers pulled away Celtics, also 30-11 at midsea­as Johnson fed Byron Scott for son. 
ENGINEERING AND MARKETING MAJORS: 
J~HNSON CONTR~LS 
A Leader in design and service of building control systems has positions available in technical sales and will be on campus the following dates: 
dnesda~. Januall~ go -7 to 9 p.m. CReception at t~e Centett ~ott Continuing £ducalion CUpstai11s Con~e11ence CRoom 
ffiu11sda~. Januall~ g1 -u\ee COo~ ~ntettviews at t~e Co11eett and cpeacement Centett 
Interview schedules and more information are available at the Career and Placement center. 
Giants 
continued from page 24 The score was set up by a 61­yard pass from Jim Kelly to Lofton, who caught the ball 
after it was tipped into the air by Perry Williams, one of six defensive backs who started 
the game for New York. 
That put the ball at the 8, but the Bills stalled at the 5 before settling for Norwood's kick. 
The Bills then gave the Giants a dose of their own ball-control style, going 80 yards in 12 plays to score the game's first touchdown on Don Smith's 1­yard run 2:30 into the quarter. Reed caught four passes for 44 yards in the drive as Kelly abandoned the shotgun forma­tion. Kelly was 18 of 30 for 212 yards. 
The Buffalo defense, mean­while, held the Giants without a first down for two straight series. 
After the Bills punted from midfield, the Giants took over at their own 6. A holding penalty on center Bart Oates negated a first down at the 17, setting up a second-and-10 at the the 6. 
As Hostetler dropped back to pass, he stumbled over Anderson's foot and was sacked 
Bruce Smith in the end zone 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. 

for a safety that made it 12-3. 
But after going just about a 
full quarter without a first 
down, the Giants suddenly 
struck. 
Taking over with 3:49 left in the half at its own 13, New York went 87 yards in 10 plays and scored on Hostetler's 14­yard pass to Baker with 25 seconds left in the half. The drive featured a 17 -yard run by Dave Meggett, an 18-yard run by Anderson and a 22-yard pass to Mark Ingram before Hostetler found Baker a step ahead of Nate Odomes in the left corner to narrow the mar­gin to 12-10 at the half. 
The Giants started the second 
half with another ball control 
drive, using 9:29 and 14 plays 
to march 75 yards for a touch­
down on Anderson's 1-yard 
run. It took more time than any 
drive in Super Bowl history. 
The key play was a third-and­
13 from the Buffalo 32. 
Hostetler hit Ingram 8 yards 
downfield and the 188-pound 
receiver broke four tackles and 
dove for the first down. 
Buffalo retook the lead when 
Thurman Thomas ran off 
tackle, broke a tackle by Gary 
Reasons and another by Myron 
Guyton and raced around the 
right side for a 31-yard 
touchdown that put the Bills in 
front 19-17. 
announces the opening 
South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self·knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
~~,,;~rilifar.~;rw.~c1a1niP1anner~~~~ 
JfarciSears  ~  
2SS·7:J:J6  ~  
General Consultation in the f ollowing areas:  ~  
Wedding etiquette  Ceremony  ~  
Color Scheme  Rehearsal  '­ 
Attire  Reception  ~  
Flowers  Music  ~  
Pictures  Showers  f.  

Please call for more information and aoooinhnents. ~ 
:..'NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNt 
Sweep 
continued from page 24 
Louder went into Saturday's 
game with a mission -to re­
prove himself. 
"It was definitely a turning 
point," said Louder. "I hadn't 
been playing as well as I 
thought I could, and I wanted 
to turn things around." 
The extremely loud crowd on 
Friday night got to see exactly 
what Coach Schafer had 
promised -an evenly matched, 
physical hockey game, which 
featured three lead changes 
and three ties. 
The outcome wasn't decided 
until the Irish had weathered a 
last-minute flurry of Kent State 
shots after the Golden Flashes 
pulled their goalie. 
Dan Sawyer scored the game 
winner for the Irish with just 
over three minutes left in the 
game when his slap shot from 
the point deflected off a Kent 
State defender and into the 
goal. 
The Irish had a chance to put 
the game away early, when 
they got off to their typical fast 
home start, scoring two goals in 
the first seven minutes of the 
game on goals by Curtis 
Janicke and Lou Zadra. 
A gritty effort by Kent State 
put the Golden Flashes up 3-2 
after seven minutes had 
elapsed in the second period. 
Curtis Janicke then tied the 
game with his second goal of 
the game, but a mistake by the 
Irish gave the lead back to Kent 
State. As the Golden Flashes 
streaked down the ice on a 
break, Notre Dame made a line 
change, leaving Irish goalie 
Greg Louder to face a thrne-on­
one which he wasn't able to 
stop. 
"Overall I'm pleased," said 
Coach Schafer. "The fans saw a 
see-saw battle." 

The Observer Monday, January 28, 1991 
pa 22 
Playing on the road proves to ·be no obstacle for Hoyas, Ga. Tech 
Jason Matthews had 15 Yellow Jackets (12-5, 4-2 Georgia Tech rally began with a 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Di­to fouls, while three other points and Darelle Porter 14 for Atlantic Coast Conference) 3-pointer by Jon Barry at 
kembe Mutombo scored 21 of Panthers had four or more 
snapped a five-game losing 16:45. Lynch got a layup, but
Pitt. Charles Harrison had 16

his 23 points in the second half fouls. Georgetown lost Robert points and Brown 10 for the streak in the Smith Center and the Yellow Jackets respondedwith No. 17 Pittsburgh's entire Churchwell to fouls and four 
Hoyas, who had lost three of won their first game at Chapel with a 19-1 run and led 62-59 frontcourt in foul trouble and other Hoyas had four or more. 
their previous five overall. Hill since the 1984-85 season. after Bryan Hill's dunk with No. 21 Georgetown rallied from 12:09 left. 
a 16-point deficit to upset the Pitt led 6 7-66 when Shorter Panthers 83-78 Sunday. left, but the Hoyas -with the 
North Carolina took two The lead changed hands five
7-2 Mutombo and 6-10 Alonzo Georgia Tech 88, No. 7 North timeouts after Mackey's points. more times after that. Fox 
The Hoyas (12-5), winning Mourning roaming at will 
Carolina 86 After the second, George Lynch made two free throws with .11 
their fourth straight over around the basket -later went tossed a low pass to Rick Fox, seconds remaining to givePittsburgh, trailed by as many on a 10-1 run capped by who dribbled from the right North Carolina an 86-85 lead. 
as 11 points in the second half, Mutombo's jam for a 76-71 CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP)­wing along the baseline andbut rallied after Pitt's leading lead. 
Malcolm Mackey converted a banked in a short jumper. But scorer, Brian Shorter, fouled three-point play with three sec­referee Rick Hartzell waved off Barry finished with 20 points
out with 6:20 to play. Shorter Gandhi Jordan's four-point onds left Sunday and Georgia the basket, ruling it came after for Georgia Tech, Geiger had 17 had 24 points and 14 rebounds. play, a 3-pointer and free and Kenny Anderson 14. 
throw, cut the Hoyas' lead to Tech rallied from a 16-point the final buzzer. In a physical game in which 80-78 with 28 seconds left, but deficit to upset seventh-ranked 
North Carolina 88-86. The Tar Heels, (14-3, 3-2) led Fox had 20, Lynch added 16,the teams were called for a Big Joey Brown made one of two 56-40 after two free throws by Pete Chilcutt scored 15 and East conference record 61 free throws and Jordan missed Davis and King Rice scored 11Mackey scored 18 of his 24 Hubert Davis with 17:35 re­fouls, Pitt lost Shorter and 6-a potential tying 3-pointer with points in the second half as the maining. 'From .there, the each for the Tar Heels. 
foot-7 sophomore Chris McNeal four seconds left. 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

THE GULF CRISIS 
March 9-16 Spring Break Seminar 

This Seminar is:  1-credit Theology course Graded S/U Orientation and Follow-up During the Semester Break One Week in Washington, D.C. Visiting Government and church leaders involved with the Persian Gulf Crisis Community Building  
INFORMATION NIGHT - Janucu:y 29 -7:30-8:00 P.M. Center for Social Concerns  
APPLICATIONS  - Available now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: February 6  


This Seminar is: 1-credit Theology course Graded S/U Orientation and Follow-up During the Semester Break One Week in Kentucky Working, laughing, learning Community building 
INFORMATION NIGHT-January 29 -7:00-7:30 P.M. Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS-Available now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: February 6 
Chicago -Cultural Diuersity March 9-16 Spring Break: Seminar 
This Seminor is: 1-credit Sociology or Theology Groded S/U 
-
Orientation ond Follow-up During the Semester Breok One Week in Chicogo Uisiting Ethnic Neighborhoods meeting with community Jeoders, eHperiencing the richness & difficulties of o culturally diuerse urbon center 
I NFORMRTI ON NIGHT-Jonuory 29 -8:00-8:30 P.M. Center for Sociol Concerns 
APPLICATIONS -Ruoiloble now 8t the Center for Sociol Concerns ond the Sociology Deportment. R plicotions ore due: Febru 6 

Monday, January 28, 1991 The Observer page 23 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 

Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Monday 
4 -5:30 p.m. "How to Help a Friend with an Eating Problem." Hita Donley, staff psychologist and coordinator of clinical services, University Counseling Center. Hes­burgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Year of the Woman Committee, University Food Service and University Coun­seling Center. 
7 p.m. Opening Lecture in the Graduate Student Union Professional Development Workshop Program: "The Role of Graduate Student Teaching in University Education," Professor Mike Salemi, University of North Carolina, Chap1~l Hill. Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union and the Office of Graduate Studies. 
CAMPUS Monday 
5 p.m. Mass in honor of St. Thomas Aquinas. Alumni llall Chapel. 
7 p.m. Presentation: "The Middle East: Burdens of the Past, Choices for the Future," Father Patrick Gaffney. 
Siegfried Hall. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast Beef Turnover w/ Gravy Eggplant Parmesan Rissole Potatoes Baked Chicken Breastlw Herbs 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
C't.\ON, Ci\L~IN! l\:>Dfl-'{ \'A'{ SPIRIT IS G£T UP ()R ~O'J'LL GOING 10 SCI-\OOL \'11-\ILE & U\i't. ~OR til'{ HOO'i ST,_~S IN SED. SO~OOL. 
NOW \'A'{ SP\R\1 15 IN 88>. 
THE FAR SIDE 
ACROSS 26 Decorous 30 Coffee type 
1 Official records 31 Thai king 
5 Attire 32 Rapier's relative 9 Trunk fastener 35 Printing mark 13 Olympics light 39AII thumbs 
15 Part of N.Y. 
41 Okla. city State Barge 42 Lyrical productCanal 43 Gold digger, 1&Mime sometimes 

17--Beach, 
44 DeceivesNormandy 46 Author Ludwig 18 S. Pacific fabric 47 Mick Jagger's19 Naked forte 

20 One outwardly 49 Self-defense powerful, systeminwardly weak 
51 Ipso­22 An achromatic 
53 Steeplecolor 
ornaments 23 Kind of bag 55 Pollock or pike 24 Actor Buddy from 56 Household 
Belleville, Ill. wrapping 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

r:-t:o:+.:-t::-1 14 Poker FIat creator 21 Made haste 
or blue 26 Formal 
GARY LARSON 
62 Chanteuse Horne 
&3Camedown 64 Fit to be tied 

65 Lodes' output 
66 Part 67 Chili con-­
68 Combustible heap 
69 Source of venison 
TO Globule 
DOWN 
1 On the apex 2 Torpor 3 Hazard for 
Faldo 4 Feel 

compassion 5 Savvy? 6 O'Hara's "­
to Live" 7 Auspicious s Safari member 9Commits 
forgery: Slang 10 Venezuelan river 11 Four-door car 12 Mouse, to an owl 
27 Indian princess 2BAugury 29Would-be 
lawyer's effort 30 College official 33 Cram 34 Former name of 
Tokyo 36 The Eternal City 37 Check texts 38 Part ofTV 40 Fox or turkey 
follower 45 Slip sideways 
SPELUNKER 

'\ STRAP 
·I I \ "'"' 
,, A;J ­
~ 


SOTHATSWitY/HfRESlLIJOSTRAPSONMYBACKFl'IGI<IA 
A (j,f?fiOU!IL DISlOD(n!f-IU! OF Til£ 51/0t/f..,D£ R(f?!mHT Of? Ll:fr) 
AS A f?.fSUf..,T OF OWL.Y VS!Nm oNE SiRIIP OF ONt.'S 
13ACKPACK At. 71foU(nH PHYSICAL 015 Co!YIFtJRT !5 MiNOt?, PAT/£NT.5 OFTEN CO/YIPt./1/N OF /)!FFICili.-TY IN FIND/N(n CO«<FO({TABLG Cf_orf{/!V&> ANo S IYJIJ/-L CHIL.Df?f3N TOSS!N0 l?OCK5 1/T Tf/£fYI SCR.f AfYIIN(n ''()U!lSi/TloDO-' Gt/!151/YIOOOI' 

48 "Private Lives" 55 Fail playwright 
57 Fiber-yielding so Meat garnish 
shrub 51 Intensely hot 
58 Fahd or 

52 Actor Ed from Hussein 
Kansas City 59 Do K.P. work 
53 Banishment &o Sicilian menace
54 Stuyvesant or Minuit 61 Cattail 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
Name 

The Observer 
Address

P.O.Box Q 
City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports 
page 24 Monday, January 28,1991 
Giants capture 2nd Super Bowl in last 5 years 
New York wins NFL title 20-19 as Bills ~ cannot match Giants' last-second magic 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -The New York Giants left the Buffalo Bills no time for the no huddle. 
Controlling the ball on touch­down drives at the end of the first half and the beginning of the second, the Giants won their second Super Bowl by beating the Bills 20-19 when Scott Norwood missed a 4 7­yard field goal with 8 seconds left. 
The winning points in the closest Super Bowl in history came on Matt Bahr's 21-yard field goal with 7:20 left in the game. • 
But the game was really won by New York's ball control of­fense, which moved the ball 87 yards to a touchdown just be­fore the half to cut a 12-3 deficit to 12-10, then held the ball for nearly 10 minutes to start the second half to take a 17-12 lead. 
The Giants had the ball for 40:33, leaving the Buffalo of­fense on the field for only 19:27. 
One hero of a game in which the lead changed hands four times was 33-year-old Ottis Anderson, who picked the most important game of his career to notch his first 100-yard game this season -21 carries for 102 yards. He went in from the one for a touchdown to cap the third quarter drive. Anderson was selected the game's most valuable player. 
"It's easy to run behind a group that blocks like that," Anderson said. "We knew we could put some points on the board. We tried to control the clock. They did some things early that hurt us, but we were able to come back." 
Another hero for New York was Jeff Hostetler, the backup 
Stith's heroics in crunch time stave off upset for Cavaliers 
With 6:33 remaining in the game, Irish center Keith Tower canned a short base­line jumper to open up a 57­49 lead for Notre Dame. 
Everything was going right for the Irish. But Virginia for­ward Bryant Stith made up his mind to change all that. The 6-5 senior scored the Cavaliers' last 17 points down the stretch to rally his team to a 68~67 comeback victory over the luckless Irish. 
We hadn't been converting early in the second half," said Ken lyslac Stith, who finished with 28 Associate Sports Editor points. "I know I can score for two layups and another against almost anyone. I thit:~k dunk. He hit a turnaround in my teammates have the middle of the lane. And confidence in me, so I just he made five straight free wanted to be the one to do it." throws with the game on the Stith scored 15 points in the line. last 2:30 of the game. He stole "What lost the game for us the ball from Elmer Bennett was we couldn't stop Stith," and raced in for a breakaway dunk. He drove to the hoop see STITH I page 20 


quarter~ack who directed the New York offense almost im­peccably, running his career record to 7-0 as a starter. He completed 20 of 32 for 222 yards and a 14-yard touchdown pass to Stephen Baker. 
The Giants held the Bills without a first down on Buffalo's opening possession, just the fourth time in the last 13 games the Bills had been held without a touchdown on their first possession of the game. 
Then the Giants did just what th.ey aimed to do -control the balL They drove 58 yards in 11 plays and ran 6:15 off the clock to set up Bahr's 28-yard field goal for a 3-0 lead. 
Buffalo tied it 1:2 3 later on Norwood's 23-yard field goaL 
see GIANTS I page 21 

Virginia escapes JACC with 68-67 win 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame was two minutes away from its biggest victory of the season on Saturday when Virginia -and Bryant Stith in particular -turned in a Top-20 performance. 
Stith scored his team's last 19 points -including 13 in the last two minutes -as the 18th­ranked Cavaliers rallied for a 68-67 victory in the Joyce ACC. 
"We'll take it," Virginia coach Jeff Jones said. "It wasn't sup­posed to happen like that -not here -but we'II take it." 
It was a disappointing loss for the Irish (7 -11). who played their best 38 minutes of the season' until Stith and the Cavaliers turned the game around in the final two minutes. 
"We played a great 38 min­utes, but the game is 40 min­utes," said Irish center Keith Tower, who had eight points and five rebounds. "We've got to learn to shut a guy down, a team down, in the last two minutes." 
Said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps, "It was a tough game to lose. This team should have a lot of pride. These kids played their hearts out against a Top 20 team. We just didn't finish it." 
Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett scored 21 points each to lead Notre Dame, while Tim Singleton added 12. Stith tallied a game-high 28 points for the Cavaliers, and Kenny Turner tossed in 14 points including two three-pointers. 
The Irish had a one-point lead and the ball out of bounds under Virginia's basket with 11 seconds left when Singleton overthrew a streaking Sweet at the opposite end of the court. 
"They were playing up on us and we wanted to look long," Singleton said. "He (Sweet) had a couple of steps on the guy but I just overthrew him." 
The Cavaliers then inbounded to Stith, who was fouled by Singleton. He connected on both free throws for the one­point Virginia lead. 
The Irish had seven seconds remaining, but Brooks Boyer stepped on the left sideline while pushing the ball upcourt. A Virginia turnover gave Notre Dame the ball with one second left, and the Irish could not get another shot. 
Notre Dame accomplished its game plan of forcing Cavalier standout John Crotty into foul trouble and eventually fouling him out with 1:48 left and just 11 points, but Stith was then unstoppable down the stretch. 
"He (Stith) took over when it was time," Sweet said. "It didn't seem like he really looked to get involved in the game until the last two minutes. We just didn't take the challenge." 
It was obvious the Irish missed Tower -who fouled out with 1:52 left -to help inside defensively when the game was on the line. Tower played 35 minutes before fouling out. 
The Irish still led 65-57 when Bennett hit two free throws 
see CAVS I page 20 

Irish hockey ~weeps weekend series 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 

Playing two straight games before the student body for the first time since the beginning of December, the Notre Dame hockey team made the most of the opportunity, winning both games against Kent State. 
The Irish won a thriller Friday, pulling out a narrow 6­5 win in front of a vocal crowd of just over 1000. Saturday night saw an extraordinary performance by Notre Dame goaltender Greg Louder lead the Irish to a 2-1 victory. 
When one team manages only 12 shots on goal to its oppo­nent's 33, you can usually as­sume that the team with 33 shots was victorious. That wasn't the case Saturday night, however. 
In a win that Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer called "the most single-handed win we've had this season," freshman goalie Greg Louder turned back 32 of 33 Golden Flash shots. 
Louder didn't mind the pres­sure, however. 
"Once you're out there, it gets to be where you want more shots, to keep the momentum," said Louder. 
The only goal Kent State scored came in the first period on a nice individual effort by right-wing Sam Thornbury, who flicked a shot by the Irish goaltender after juking a de­fender. 
Notre Dame didn't create many opportunities for itself offensively, but it took advan­tage of the chances Kent State created for it. 
Almost thr'ee minutes into the second period, Mike Curry notched the first Notre Dame goal. The Irish were short­handed after Chris Tschupp was sent to the penalty box for a cross check, and were stifling the Golden Flash power play when a Kent State pass went awry. 
Curry took off with the pass on a beeline to the Kent State goal, outskated a Golden Flash defender, crossed over to the right side of the goal, then flicked a backhanded shot past Kent goalie Scott Shaw. 
The game was scoreless from that point until five minutes into the third period, when an­other Golden Flash miscue was converted into a David Bankoske goal. 
A Kent State defender tried to make a pass over his own goal, but Notre Dame's Lou Zadra jumped high into the air and nabbed the puck. Zadra, alone except for Shaw, put down the puck and got off a shot which Shaw deflected. Bankoske col­lected the rebound and shot the puck over a sprawling Shaw to give the Irish a 2-1 lead which they did not relinquish. 
It wasn't a pretty win, but it was a win nonetheless, and Coach Schafer took it as such. 
"We won, but there is no question the game puck goes to Greg Louder," said the Irish skipper. "The name of the game is one good goaltender. That was the difference tonight." 
see SWEEP I page 21 







