. ,_:. :.'-i 
' I 

VOL. XXIII NO. 99 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1991 
THE1NDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush is skeptical of Soviet peace proposal 
But the administration has not yet definitely rejected the initiative 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush has "serious con­cerns" with a Soviet-Iraqi pro­posal to end the Gulf War, the White House said Thursday night, but the administration pointedly did not reject the dramatic initiative that could result in Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait. 
"The war itself continues," said spokesman Marlin Fitzwa­ter, acknowledging that Bush had not decided yet whether to open a ground assault that had seemed imminent. 
Earlier in the day, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said al­lied forces were massing for "one of the largest land assaults of modern times," a comment that lent urgency to the Iraqi mission to Moscow. 
Fitzwater said, "We have had our hopes erased before" but pledged that "we are taking a look at" the Moscow plan. He said the White HOuse would consult with coalition leaders and a flurry of diplomatic calls went out Thursday night from the offices of Secretary of State James Baker III. 
Bush himself went to the the­ater, leaving aides to pour over the announcement from 


Tariq Azlz 

Moscow. One administration source said among the problem areas were a proposed early end to sanctions against Bagh­dad and the avoidance of war reparations by Iraq. 
Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev called Bush Thursday night to brief him on details of the plan. The president thanked him for his efforts "but raised serious concerns about several points in the plan," Fitzwater said. 
"The president has indicated there could well be some diffi­culties here," Fitzwater said. He turned aside questions ab.out whether there was anything positive in the proposal, saying, "I don't want to give it any characterization." 

• 
War and Gospel I page 8 

• 
Families protected I page 9 

• 
World reactions I page 9 

• 
Saddam's speech I page 8 

• 
The Soviet plan I page 9 


"The war itself continues," he told reporters in a brief state­ment. "We will continue to seek compliance with the U.N. reso­lutions and the president will make decisions concerning the ground war as appropriate." 
There were some encouraging words in Congress, where Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-lnd., called the Moscow plan "a very serious proposal." He said it was an improvement over an Iraqi formula -full of conditions ­offered last Friday but that still, "It does have some problems in 
it." 


The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Prayerful reflectio.fls 

A picturesque Golden Dome is reflected in the stained glass win9ows of Sacred Heart Church Thursday. The finishing restorative touches were put on the Church last spring. 

Mikhail Gorbachev 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole, in a speech on the Senate floor, said, "Let's be cautious." He said that Saddam "might be playing a stalling game." 
Hamilton, while offering a cautiously upbeat assessment of the plan, said, "My reaction would be to continue the mili­tary action, certainly the mili­tary bombing." He said the ground war should not begin "at this point." 
Sen. James Exon, D-Neb., said, "It isn't a question of whether the Soviets accept it but whether the president of the United States accepts it. My guess is he will not." 
While the world studied the announcement from Moscow, 
Bush went to Ford's Theater to 
see "Black Eagles," a show 
about black Air Force pilots in 
World War II. 
Fitzwater declined to go into Bush's concerns, but knowl­edgeable officials, insisting upon anonymity in offering an initial review, suggested several possible obstacles. 
"The Iraqis are talking about voiding other U.N. resolutions, including reparations for the damage they did to Kuwait," said one. "That, essentially, would be letting them get away with it," he said. 
"The only positive point is that they say they'll withdraw," another official said. But he added, "They've moved a long way from last week when they set out a long list of conditions." 
The diplomacy in the Kremlin capped a day that began with a bellicose radio speech in Bagh­dad by Saddam. He vowed to continue the war and not to surrender. Bush and leaders of Congress registered sharp dis­appointment with the radio speech, and the administration said plans were moving ahead to begin a ground war against Iraq. 
Mozart's death will be honored by concert at ND 
Special to the Observer 

The 200th anniversary of the death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart will be observed at the University of Notre Dame with a faculty recital of his music Sun., Feb. 24th at 2 p.m. in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium. 
The Mozart program, performed by Carolyn Plummer, violinist and associate professor of music, and William Cerny, pianist and professor of music, will include Sonatas for the Piano and Violin in C Major, K. 296; B-flat Major, K. 378; E Minor, K. 304 and B-flat Minor, K. 
454. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Carolyn Plummer holds a bachelor of music degree from Indiana University and a master of music degree with honors in violin performance from the New England Conservatory. She joined the Houston Symphony Orchestra in 197 4, was a frequent soloist and served as assistant concertmaster from 1977 to 1986. 
In 1987, she joined the Atlanta Virtuosi chamber ensemble, and last summer she was concertmaster of the Grand Teton Music festival and a guest artist in the Steamboat Springs Chamber Music Festival and in the Great Lakes Music Festival at Notre Dame. 
William Cerny, who chaired Notre Dame's music department from 1972 to 
see MOZART I page 7 _ 
Kuwaitis, other refugees will be allowed to remain in the U.S. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration is preparing to let as many as 51,000 people who fled war in Lebanon, Liberia and Kuwait stay in the United States temporarily, sources said Thursday. 
A new legal ·status enacted by Congress last year, called temporary protected status, allows people who have fled war to remain in this country until it is safe to go home. 
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh is poised confer the designation on Lebanese, Liberian and Kuwaiti citizens who do not have other legal means of remaining in this oountry, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Justice Department spokesman Dan Eramian refused to comment. It could not be learned immediately for how long the temporary protected 
status would apply, but law provides for a minimum period of six months and a maximum of 18. 
The designation permits those under it to work legally and to apply for permanent residence. 
The designations were requested by Undersecretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger on the recommendation of the State Department's Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, said one source familiar with the decision. 
Eagleburger was particularly concerned about the plight of people who fled Liberia during civil war that has toppled the military government of Samuel Doe, said the source. 
As many as 13,000 people have died in fighting in Liberia since late 1989 and 
see REFUGEE I page 7 

page 2 Friday, February 22, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Subtle racism, 
I

sex1sm a problem at N D 
Last week I received a------­
call from  a  reporter who  
was  doing  a  story  on  
"politically correct" be­ 
havior  at colleges and  
wanted to know what the  
atmosphere was here at  
Notre Dame. I told him  
about Students United for  
Respect and he questioned  Kelley Tuthill  
me on the events that led  News Editor  
up to the formation of this  
group.  

He asked me what type of racism exists at Notre Dame and wanted to know if there are incidents of racial slurs reported on campus or in the classroom? I thought a moment and said, no, we don't have reported incidents of blatant racism. 
After hanging up the phone, I thought about what kind of racism and sexism does exist here. Then it occurred to me that I was so quick to deny the blatant racism because some of the behavior that many of us find so repugnant is subtle and very few admit that it happens. 
When Spike Lee came to visit he talked about the way we separate blacks on college campuses: "They're (athletes) not really considered black per se, because if you're a big football player at Notre Dame ... you're not black ... you're Irish. If you're not an athlete, you're a nigger." 
This comment is tough to swallow at first, but then I thought back to the last two years of Bookstore Basketball. Tensions surfaced between black and white students. A few football players expressed their outrage about being treated like gods during football season, and then, like Lee's "nigger" off-season. 
Recently, I heard of a white student who received racially-harassing phone calls at­tacking her for her involvement with ethnic students and organizations on campus. Whoever is calling her has to mask his comments behind the anonymity of a phone. 
We don't want to admit that people in our community are being harassed each day on our campuses on account of their sex, race, political beliefs, sexual orientation, etc. 
All of us, especially the ones who aren't doing the harassing, need to wake up and face the reality of what is happening here. We need to speak out and express our dis­approval at harassment. It is not appropriate to laugh at jokes that poke fun at ethnic or sexual stereotypes. No longer should we sit through class lectures where various groups are denigrated. 
Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., had great problems with the white moderate of the 60s. "Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will," he wrote in his letter from Birmingham Jail. 
" ... We who engage in nonviolent direct ac­tion are not the creators of tension. We merely bring to the surface the hidden ten­sion that is already alive. We bring it out in the open, where it can be seen and dealt with." 
···:;;.:·· 

Fo~~ for noari. Friday~ February 22 
line$ Sh(lW high ~~Uf($ • · cloudiy and colder 
WEATHER REPORT 
with a chance 

of flurries . Highs in 30s and lows in teens. Cloudier cold Saturday. 
H L 57 46 69 50 61 36 50 33 58 34 58 36 62 33 55 33 82 71 57 49 59 33 45 43 81 53 54 36 81 69 27 21 66 56 56 35 48 37 56 32 56 39 57 41 72 44 68 52 57 37 50 32 
D.C. 62 37 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Whales drown British trainer to death 
• OAK BAY, British Columbia -Three killer whales dragged a trainer to her death before horrified spectators at a theme park. Keltie Lee Byrne, 23, had ridden on the back of one of the whales during the exhibition at Sealand of the Pacific on Wednesday. She fell into the water as she walked along the edge of the whale pool, said witness Nadine Kallen of Calgary, one of about 10 spectators. As she was being helped out, one of the whales grabbed her foot and pulled her back into the water, Kallen said. 
Explosion knocks out fuel pipeline 
• CORDOBA, Spain -An explosive device blew up today on a pipeline carrying fuel to U.S. air bases in Spain, knocking it out of service, officials said. An anonymous spokeswoman reported the 480-mile-long pipeline would be out of service for about 24 hours. The company reported the pipeline carries gasoline, diesel fuel and kerosene. Central government delegate Alfonso Garrido said the explosion occurred near a railroad siding outside Cordoba. The pipeline runs from the Atlantic port of Rota, where the United States maintains a naval station. 
NATIONAL 

Marlboro Co s••es video game maker 
• NEW YORK -Philip Morris U.S.A. sued a video game manufacturer Thursday it says failed to follow through on an agreement to remove a cigarette brand logo from an auto-racing game for children. Sega Enterprises of San Jose, Calif., agreed in March 1990 to remove the Marlboro trademark from its "Super Monaco GP" video racing game, the tobacco company said in its lawsuit. The negative publicity stems, it said, from "the mistaken belief that Philip Morris was and is utilizing video games to market and promote its Marlboro cigarettes to children." 
OF INTEREST 

John Coogan, assistant professor of Foreign Policy History at Michigan State University, will be speaking at the Vincent DeSantis Lecture Series today in 211 Cushing Hall. Students enrolled in History 701 and 705 are required to attend. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 21, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES 180.n Million  NYSE INDEX 199.27  11­0.01  
S&P COMPOSITE  
364.97  ~  0.17  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
2,891.83  ..  7.18  
PRECIOUS METALS  
GOLD ..f $1.90 to$362.70oz.  
SILVER •  3.7¢ to$ 3.640/oz.  

Patient to sue dentist for AIDS virus 
• STUART, Fla. -A 65-year-old retired schoolteacher infected with the AIDS virus says she'II sue the estate of her dentist, who died from AIDS, claiming she is the third patient he gave the disease to during dental work. Barbara Webb, 65, of Palm City will file claims against the estate ofDr. David Acer and the insurance company that referred her to him, said her lawyer, Robert Montgomery. Mrs. Webb had four teeth pulled and two teeth capped by Acer in 21 office visits during a 13-month period ending in January 1989, Montgomery said Wednesday. 
INDIANA 

Hodgsett warns of religious scams 
• SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Hoosiers need to be aware of "experienced con artists" who are using religion to obtain money illegally, Secretary of State Joseph Hogsett said Thursday. Hogsett was touring the state Thursday warning Hoosiers about "Our Father's Congregation" and other "religious" investment operations that offer usury­free loans. "Experienced con artists are aiming religious­based securities and loan scams" at Indiana residents, Hogsett said in a South Bend news conference. 
CAMPUS 

Marzolf wins SMC run-off elections 
• NOTRE DAME, Ind.--The Saint Mary's class of 1993 run-off election resulted in victory for the ticket of Martha Marzolf (president), Donna Ruth (vice-president), Dina Selman (secretary), and Caroline Molnar (treasurer). Marzolf took 62 percent of the vote. The ticket of Kelly Green, Nora Richardson, Erin Foley, and Mimi Gibbons took the remaining 38 percent. Approximately 50 percent of the class voted. 
It's time for the students, faculty, admin­istration and staff at Notre Dame to ac­knowledge the harassment that takes place here and deal with it. 
Thursday's Staff 

Graphics News Melissa Cusack 
Production 

Steve Burgun BradGalko Jeanne Blasi 
Ann-Marie Conrado Michael Muldoon 
Siobhan McCarthy 

Accent Systems Circulation Robyn Simmons Chris Caracciolo Bill O'Rourke Charmaine Martinez Edouard Beauvais MaH Novak 
Michelle Devers Paul Pearson 
Sports 

Scoreboard VIewpointRene Ferran 
Rolando de Aguiar Michael Krause 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Of Interests are for free, one-time events of general interest. The deadline for submission is 1 p.m. the day before publication. Clubs are encouraged to use the 'Club Column' and not this space for announcement of their regular meetings and activities. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1630: English colonists in America got their first taste of popcorn. 

• 
In 1732: The first president of the United States, George Washington, was born at his parents" plantation near Fredricksburg. Va. 

• 
In 1973: The United States and Communist China agreed to establish liaison offices in Beijing and Washington. 

• 
In 1984: David, a 12-year·old Houston boy who'd spent most of his life in a plastic bubble because he had no immunity to disease, died 15 days after being removed from the bubble for a bone-marrow transplant. 

• 
In 1987: Pop artist Andy Warhol died at a New York City hospital at age 58. 

• 
Ten years ago: A wildly cheering crowd gave Pope John Paul II an exuberant farewell as the pontiff ended his hectic six-day visit to the Philippines before flying to the American island of Guam. 


page 3 

The Observer 
Friday, February 22, 1991 

The Obs81Ver!E.G. Bailey

Catching some rays 
Notre Dame students lounge outside by the War Mamorial Thursday in the unexpectedly balmy afternoon temperatures. 
No clues on cause of air crash that killed 20 people near Chile 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) -Pas­sengers clung in icy waters to the wings and tail of a char­tered Chilean jetliner after it skidded off the runway of a remote Chilean island, killing 20 people, authorities and wit­nesses said Thursday. 
The small four-engine jet of the Chilean airline LAN was trying to land Wednesday at Puerto Williams on Navarino island when it overshot the runway and crashed into the Beagle Channel, 1,500 miles south of Santiago, airline offi­cials said. 
The plane sank within min­utes, and some passengers froze to death after they jumped into the icy waters of the channel, which separates the Atlantic and Pacific oceans near Cape Horn, witnesses said. 
The 65 mostly American pas­sengers were on their way to an Antarctic cruise organized by a Seattle-based tour company. Seven crew members were also on the plane, and all survived. 
On Thursday LAN issued a fi­nal list of the dead, including 17 Americans, a Canadian, an Italian and an Israeli. 
GOTO 
I 
Ma11 this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships. P.O. Box 2865 Huntington Station. NY 11746-0690 
I 
Check up to three: D Army D Navy (21·34 year'"f age) (21·36 years of age) Please pnnt all mformation clearly and completely 
Name f•rsl Middle ln.~~al last 
Address 

I 
City State 
Phone o::IJ ITIJ I 

An initial inquiry of the crash site uncovered no clues to the cause of the crash of the Bri­tish-made BAe-146, said Chilean air force Cmdr. Hernan Baharhona, who heads the in­vestigation team. 
Witnesses said the plane sank quickly in the freezing water. 
"After 10 minutes, all you could see was the tail," wrote Maria Cristina del Pino, a cor­respondent for the Santiago daily El Mercurio. "The aircraft started to sink, while the pas­sengers emerged, many of them clinging to the wings, awaiting to be rescued." 
MEDICA! $_CJIOOI. 

tUltiOtl\ 
PA\D ..,} 
~. rn»" 
Find ou! h~w you can have your medical school tuition, required books and fees_pa1d 1n f~ll-plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school. Clip and ma1l the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy or Air Force. 
If selected~ you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable med1cal expenence servmg on active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology. 
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice­
and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today. 
• JE$I Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program can help cut my
--------.,I
• medical school expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below I understand I am under no obligation 
Ladrech: Europe is moving towards greater integration 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
While political union is not imminent, Europe is already on the verge of an economic union and is slowly moving toward in­tegration, said Robert Ladrech, assistant director of political science at Saint Mary's College. 
Ladrech discussed current trends toward a supernational status of Europe Thursday during a lecture titled "EC Polit­ical Integration: Is There a So­cialist Agenda?" 
A variety of individuals and parties, particularly the social­ist parties of Germany and France, are striving for the uni­fication of Europe, according to Ladrech. A variety of recent developments over the past two years have pushed Europe to­wards integration, he said. 
"This is a big step forward ... from four or five years ago," said Ladrech. 
Last year, for example, French President Mitterand and German President Kohl drew up a joint resolution calling for in­creased political unity. The Eu­ropean Parliament was a prime beneficiary of this increased power. 
An inter-governmental con­ference has also been planned to discuss the issue in the near future, Ladrech said. In addi­tion, the economic union to be completed by 1992 is putting pressure on Europe to "catch up" politically, he continued. 
There are two possibilities for political integration. First, a central body could be formed in order to protect the interests of all nations. Secondly, a fed­eralist system could be adopted to create a kind of "United States of Europe," according to Ladrech. 
A variety of barriers currently restrict the development of this movement, including prevailing nationalist sentiments, he continued. Even elections for the European Parliament, a group of country rep­resentatives who address inter­national European issues, de­pend on varying national elec­tion procedures and campaigns and tend to focus on national issues, he said. 
In addition, said Ladrech, many fear that if Europe be­comes a supernation, the inter­ests of each nation, including social issues, government pen­sions, and environmental con­cerns, may be neglected. 
There are, however, a variety of advantages for the European Community, Ladrech said. Polit­ical integration would help Eu­rope protect itself from inter­national pressures. European nations who compete heavily in the international market will avoid becoming an economic prisoner of U.S. and Japanese interests, he pointed out. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, the Committee of European Studies, ISLA, and the Departments of History, Sociology, Government, and International Studies. 
9018 
D Air Force (18·34 years of age) 
I 
0 Male 0 Female 
Apt.#~~~:=;::=;::::::; 
Zip I I I I I I 
I 
I Soc. Sec. No. ITIJ o::::J I I I I I 
Area Code Number 

I 
College (039) B~rth Date o::::J o::::J o::::J Mo ~ Year 
I 

F1eld of Study GraduatiOn Date L...l.....J o::::J 
The tnformatron you voluntanly provtde wtll be used for recrUiting purposes only The more comple~01 t 1 s, theYur bener we can respond to your request IAuthonty 10 USC 503).
.. _______ _. 
She said navy personnel using rubber boats quickly reached the scene. 
Another reporter said pas­sengers froze to death when they tried to swim 150 yards to a beach. 
"Several passengers, in de­spair, jumped into the water trying to swim to the beach. We who live here would never dare to do that," said Mauricio Car­vajao, a radio reporter in Puerto Williams. "The water is like ice, and you may freeze and die in a matter of minutes." 
He said island fishermen us­ing their small boats helped rescue some survivors. 
Speaking in Punta Arenas, 250 miles north of the crash site, Baharhona said the island had been sealed ofT to commer­cial air traffic so as not to "hamper our work." 

•••.•.•••••t, -.. 
> • f!O>
To Someone 
Who Cannot Help but Leave His Mark-
HAPPY 21st, 
CHRIS!!! 
LIKE CHILDREN? LIKE THE OUTDOORS? 
Be a counselor this summer at Camp Foley in Pine River MN 
Come see us: Mon Feb. 25 at SMC in Lemans Tues Feb. 26 at ND in Lafortune 
Looking for staff In saiUng, swimming, biking, windsurfing, tennis, watersk.Hng, fencing, canoeing, archery, riDery, crafts, a more 

page4 The Observer Friday, February 22, 1991 
Czechoslovakia begins to privatize gov't. assets 

An Tostal winners Anh-Tuan Truong, Ann Cook, Colleen, and Sarah Johnson display their gift certifi­cates after a recent drawing. An Tostal is scheduled to be held during the week of April21-27. 
Big 3 autoworkers will be idle next week 
DETROIT (AP) -About 41,000 workers for the Big Three automakers will be idled for a week starting Monday as all or part of nearly two dozen assembly plants are shut down due to sluggish demand, the companies announced Thurs­day. 
The number of layoffs at General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. is about two-thirds the number of workers affected by temporary layoffs in January, but remains an indication that the industry is struggling. 
January's combined sales of domestic and imported cars and trucks totaled 823,526 ve­hicles, down 27.8 percent from January 1990. 
Workers affected by the shutdowns are eligible for ben-

WEEDEND PRESIDERS at Sacred Heart Church Second Sunday of Lent 
Saturday, February 23 5:00pm Fr. Stephen Newton C.S.C. Sunday, February 24 1O:OOam Fr. Mark Poorman C.S.C. 11 :45am Fr. Stephen Newton 
Short-tenn credit. 
efit packages designed to give them 95 percent of their regu­lar wages while laid off because of sales slowdowns. 
More than half of next week's layoffs will be at Ford plants, especially truck factories. About 22,000 Ford assembly plant workers will be affected. 
Spokesman Joel Pitcoff said car plants in Chicago; Dearborn and Wayne, Mich., and Lorain, Ohio, will be shut down. 
Truck plants in Kansas City, and St. Louis, Mo.; Wayne, Mich.; Norfolk, Va.; St. Paul, Minn.; and its medium-duty truck plant in Louisville, Ky., will be closed. Truck plants in Edison, N.J., and Lorain, Ohio, will be working on one shift each instead of the usual two. 
The only truck plants Ford will be operating at regular ca-
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -Parliament on Thursday ap­proved the former East Bloc's most ambitious plan to return property nationalized by Com­munists to its previous owners. 
The legislators then immedi­ately moved on to another cornerstone of the govern­ment's plan to end its control over the economy -a bill to turn much of industry over to private hands. 
As much as $10.7 billion worth of property nationalized by the Communists after they took power in 1948 will be turned back to private owners under the so-called restitution bill approved Thursday, Fi­nance Minister Vaclav Klaus was quoted as telling parlia­ment. 
About $714 million would be paid in cash to original owners, the daily Lidove Noviny added. The remaining property would be returned in real estate and in the form of government-is­sued bonds, the newspaper quoted Klaus as saying. 
The bill was approved on a second vote in parliament, about 12 hours after it was narrowly rejected. The govern­ment of Slovakia, the eastern and more rural Czechoslovak republic, had opposed it. 
It had proposed giving origi­nal owners government bonds and access to management of companies turned over to pri­vate hands. 
The legislation also allows Czechoslovak emigres who de­cide to return to their homeland to reclaim property. It gives original owners and their heirs pacity next week are its Oakville, Ontario, plant, where it makes the F-Series truck, and Louisville Assembly plant in Kentucky, where its Explorer sport-utility vehicle is made. The F-Series truck has been the best-selling vehicle in the United States for the past nine years and the Explorer is eating into Jeep's market share. 
liiffilE  
tonight  
Earn credit in one, two, three, four, six,  Name  
seven or eight weeks this summer.  School Address  
calll-800-FINDS NU (lo Illinois, call 708/491-4114) or mail this coupoo.  
Cil)  
State  Zip  
lfomt• .~ddrr<>  
Cit)  
Slalt'  Zip  
Northwestern University  
Summer Session '91  
Think or swim.  
I'm thinking. Send me a fret• copy of the Summer  
S<.'Ssion '91 catalog with financial aid and registration  
information (available in April).  
l'll".t!;e send the catalog to  0  my home.  
0 myschool.  
Northwestern UniversitY Summer Session '91  
2005 Sheridan Road Evanston. Illinois 60208-2650  

GM is closing car plants in Linden, N.J.; Doraville, Ga.; Ok­lahoma City; and Ste. Therese, Quebec; and laying off one of two shifts at its Ypsilanti, Mich., factory.· 
six months to apply for their property. 
If the property is not returned within 30 days of the applica­tion, the owner has another 12­month period to claim his rights in court. 
No other former East Bloc country has yet taken a similar step, and Hungary and the former East Germany rejected such a move as too costly. 
The restitution bill was ap­proved by the House of the Na­tions in a repeat vote by mar­gins of 51-10 with four absten­tions among deputies from the Czech republic and 45-14 with five abstentions among deputies from Slovakia. 
In order to pass. a bill has to receive an absolute majority of all 75 deputies in both the Czech and Slovak sections of the House of Nations. On the first ballot, the Slovaks gave it 36 votes. 
The other house of parlia­ment, the House of the People, approved the bill on the first ballot on a vote of 86-25 with 13 abstentions. 
The property to be returned to private owners under the restitution bill is only a fraction of the total to be transferred to private ownership as the former Communist country tries to swiftly develop a market economy. 
The second piece of legislation would transfer large en­terprises not eligible for return to individual owners. 
It is not expected to be voted on until at least Friday. 

Friday, February 22, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Adworks to sell b-ball team shirts 
Special to the Observer 
Bookstore Basketball 
fashion may reach new 
heights this year with the 
addition of the Adworks five­
shirt package deal. 
The package, to be sold Sunday at sign-ups, will include five shirts of any color bearing a standard design for the tournament. They will also feature the team's own name and design. 
For teams expecting to play multiple games, Adworks will offer a ten T-shirt package consisting of five white shirts and five dark-colored shirts. 
"We want to show our sup­port for the tournament, and our appreciation for what our fellow students want," said Scott Kluge, Adworks' vice president, "Offering something for the players to have as a reminder of this event, with their own personal mark on it, we feel, is a unique idea." 
"Our staff is very talented and they're excited about de­signing team shirts,~ said Damian Shiner, president. Adworks ad agency is an entirely student-run organization. 
Already a four-year sponsor of a team in the tournament, Adworks' desire to increase its support of Bookstore Basketball resulted in the T-shirt pro­ject. 

Yugoslav republic desires secession 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­Croatia on Thursday invali­dated all federal laws on its territory and said it would join its pro-independence ally Slove­nia in initiating secession from Yugoslavia. 
Croatia's parliament, the Sa­bor, voted overwhelmingly to proclaim the superiority of its law over federal legislation, and unanimously approved a resolution formally starting its secession from Yugoslavia's federation of six republics and two provinces. 
The parliament of Croatia's neighboring republic, Slovenia, took similar action Wednesday. 
The moves raised the stakes for Friday's scheduled meeting of the federal presidency in Sarajevo. Four previous rounds aimed at sorting out Yu­goslavia's ethnic, political, and economic differences have failed. 
All 340 deputies in the Sabor voted to adopt the resolution that foresees dissolving Yu­goslavia, a nation of 24 million people, "into two or more countries." 
Any like-minded republics could join Croatia in a new, 
'Thrill killer' holdups have some storeowners nervous 
This is agreatway 
to wendtfie summer 
but itdoesrrtlook 
verylillpresslve 
onyourresume. 
At Allstate, summer intems get 
the ch,mce to do resume-quality 
work on real projects in offices all 
over the countrv 

So ifyou're interested in audit­
ing, accounting, sy.;tems, actuarial 
science, human resources, finance, 
law, marketing, graphics, under­
writing, advertising, or orl1er relat­
ed areas, send your resume to the 
lntemship Coordinator, Allstate 
Insur,mce Company, Allstate Plaza, 
GlC, Northbrook. IL 60062. 
Ofcourse, you'll still have time to perfect your po\Ver serve. It's just that vou'll also finish the summer with-skills that people may actually pay you for. 
A member ofthe W Sears Financial Network LlMJ 
AIISfafee 
You're in good hands. 
0 1991 Alistair Insurance Cmlpanl'. ~onhbrook.lllin01s 
looser association of states that "fully respect each others' sovereignty," the resolution said. 
It said the federation should be dissolved in a peaceful man­ner and republics should emerge with their former bor­ders intact. 
Independence moves by pros­perous, pro-Western Croatia and Slovenia have set them at odds with the largest state, Communist-ruled Serbia, and threaten the country with disin­tegration. There are 9.8 million Serbs, 5 million Croats and 2 million Slovenes. 
Officials of Croatia and Slovenia cite Yugoslavia's long­standing inability to solve its deep divisions as reason for their drive toward indepen­dence. 
Serbia vehemently opposes any plans to change the current federal system. It is backed by the pro-Communist People's Army and the army's Serb­dominated officer corps. Ser­bia's hard-line President Slobo­dan Milosevic threatens to alter borders to "protect" ethnic Serbs in other regions should the federation split. 

Mine class 
Staff Sgt. Robert Archiable of Elkhart, Indiana explains ~ow~ U.S. made M-21 anit-tank mine works to a group of U.S. mannes m the Saudi desert Tuesday. The Iraqi army has acquired many mines from a variety of different sources, including the United States. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) ­Along the streets where police say a "thrill killer" has slain six people in two holdups, stores are closing early and stepping up security. 
Virtually all the detectives in the Sheriff's Department were assigned to hunt down the killer after he struck a second time, shooting three pizza parlor workers Tuesday. The first shootings were at a Quik Stop Market a mile away. 

"We are scared -there is no other way to put it," Harold Edwards, manager of the Quik Stop market, told The Sacra­mento Bee. "I just hope to God they apprehend this individual before he takes any more lives." 
A sheriff's official said Thursday that investigators have more than 100 leads but 
no suspects. 
Tuesday's triple homicide oc­curred a week, almost to the minute, after two employees and a customer were shot in the head at the Quik Stop. 

,; I ( ( ~ 4 ~ ... -· ..t I • ,._ .. .I
,.. ... -:-.'" 

DOMINO'S PIZZA TOP 10 PICKS 

DOMINO'S POLL UNLV 22-0 OHIO STATE 22-1 ARKANSAS 25-2 INDIANA 22-3 SYRACUSE 23-3 N. CAROLINA 20-4 DUKE 22-5 UTAH 24-2 KANSAS 19-4 ARIZONA 20-5 
Call about our 30th Anniversary Special! Employment Opportunities Available. MONDAY-TUESDAY SUNDAY DOUBLE ' ANY DAY SPECIAL
SPECIAL FEATURE : 

C1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

33rd ANNUAL 
GRAMMY 
AWARD WINNERS 

Record of the Year 
"Another Day in Paradise," Phil Collins 

Album of the Year "Back on the Block,"Ouincy Jones 
Song of the Year 
"From ADistance," Julie Gold 
New Artist 
Mariah Carey 
Pop Vocal, Female 

"VIsion of Love," Mariah Carey 
Pop Vocal, Male "Oh Pretty Woman," Roy Orbison 
Pop Vocal, Duo or Group 
"All My Life," Linda Ronstadt, Aaron Neville 
AP 

FED pledges campaign to Refugee 
continued from page 1 
the strife displaced more than half the country's 2.5 million people, according to a report 
all.eviate U.S. 'credit crunch' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Federal concerns about their have avoided a recession if con­
prepared by Sen. Edward
Reserve Chairman Alan soundness. sumers had not lost confidence Kennedy, 0-Mass. 
Greenspan on Thursday A hesitancy by banks to make and reduced their buying fol­A cease-fire was declared last pledged an aggressive cam-loans, even to generally credit­lowing Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of fall but a rebel leader and apaign to overcome the reluc-worthy customers, has been Kuwait. 
vice president under Doe havetance of banks to make loans, cited by the Bush administra­Rep. Joseph Kennedy, 0­
both proclaimed themselves
the "credit crunch" hurting tion and private economists as a Mass., complained that the Fed president.
some parts of the country. But contribution to the current and other agencies first denied 
Thornburgh also agreed to
skeptical lawmakers com-recession. that any problem existed and designate people from Lebanonplained that the central bank's The reluctance to lend has have still offered little in con­and Kuwait as eligible for theefforts so far have been late and several apparent causes, rang­crete solutions. 
temporary protected status,
half-hearted. ing from an over-reaction by "The trouble is that bankers sources said.
Greenspan, appearing before bank regulators increasing are going out of business in According to Immigration and a subcommittee of the House their scrutiny in the wake of the New England, the economy is Naturalization Service figures,Banking Committee, said that savings and loan crisis to an being strangled and we are recently there were as many asthe central bank viewed the re-excess of caution by bankers talking about studying the 
27,000 Lebanese, 14,000
luctance of banks to make loans faced with steep declines in real problem," he told Greenspan. 
Liberian and 10,000 Kuwaiti as the most critical problem estate values. Kennedy said that the Fed has citizens in the United States. 
confronting the Fed's handling Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., the power to purchase But one source cautioned thatof monetary policy at the told Greenspan he believed the commercial loans from banks, 
many of them may have 
present time. Fed had been "very late" in ad-an idea that has been advanced student or travel visas, perhapsHe said that the Fed was dressing the credit problems in as a way of freeing up money expired by now. For instance,working with other banking New England while Rep. Doug that banks could use to make 
most Kuwaitis came on
regulators and the Bush admin-Barnard, D-Ga., asked, "Hasn't new loans. 
business or to study at
istration and would in a few there been over-aggressive crit­Greenspan told Kennedy that 
American universities, the
days unveil a package of ac-icism by regulators of bank the central bank had been ex­source said.
counting changes designed to loans?" ploring such a proposal for the 
Many people may have al­
encourage greater lending. Greenspan contended that the past two months. But he indi­
ready left. The immigration
In addition, he again called on Fed began moving to offset the cated the approach contained a 
service does not keep good
banks to make greater use of credit crunch by lowering inter­number of problems, including records on the number of peo­their option to borrow money est rates starting last July. He the Fed's lack of expertise in 
ple leaving because travelers
directly from the Fed. Banks said he believed the chances commercial loans, and probably often don't turn in departurehave been reluctant to do that were "a good deal better than would not do much to alleviate 
for fear that it would raise-50-50" that the country could the credit crunch. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES 
and Interested Freshmen: Don't Miss The College of Arts and Letters "Meet Your Major Program" 
Day Sunday  Date 2/24  Time 5-6 6-7 7-8 8-9  Department CAPP Hesburgh Program Sociology Philosophy  Location 104 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 104 O'Shag  
Monday  2/25  4:30-5:30 7-8 8-9  AE/ALPP Music German & Russian Romance Languages Theology Anthropology History  104 O'Shag 103 Crowley 115 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 218 O'Shag 204 O'Shag 104 O'Shag  
Tuesday  2/26  7-8 8-9  American Studies Economics Gender Studies English  218 O'Shag 104 O'Shag 115 O'Shag 104 O'Shag  
Wednesday 2/27  4:30-5:30 7-8 8-9  Classical and Oriental Languages Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) Science, Technology & Values Communication  218 O'Shag Grace Pit 218 O'Shag  
and Theatre  O'Shag  Loft  
Thursday 2/28  4:30-5:30 7-8  Psychology Government Art, Art History Design  &  119 Haggar 104 O'Shag 200 Riley  

**Note: Those students interested in an AL Math major please attend the College of Science Information night. 
cards. 

The immigration law enacted last year specifically gave tem­porary protected status to Sal­vadorans who fled civil war in El Salvador. "But the legislative history makes clear that Congress urged quick and fa­vorable consideration of Kuwaiti, Lebanese and Liberi­ans," one source said. 
Under the law Thornburgh may designate a period of time during which these groups will have temporary protected sta­tus. At the end of the period, the attorney general could re­view the situation in each of the three countries to determine whether to extend the designa­tions. 
The law allows those who re­ceive it to work and apply for permanent residence status, which could eventually lead to obtaining citizenship. Those whose visas expire during the period designated by the attor­ney general could also remain. 
Mozart 
continued from page 1 
1981, received his bachelor and master's degrees in music from Yale. Before coming to Notre Dame, he was a member of the faculty of the University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music. 
While at Eastman, in addi­tion to giving musical perfor­mances, Cerny taught piano, music history, accompanying sight reading, piano literature, and American, European and intellectual history. 
In 1968, he developed a pre­senWJ.tion entitled ..Explorations into Piano Literature" for college and university audiences. The presentation evolved into a weekly series aired for many years on the National Public Radio network. 
,\'' ,, ,,,, 
~,:.~
Give to the United Way. 
"' 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 8 Friday, February 22, 1991 
Saddam: Iraqi forces 'are ready for the showdown' 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Iraqi President Saddam Hussein said Thursday that his forces "are ready for the showdown" -the all-out ground war that hinged on the outcome of his foreign minister's trip to Moscow. 
"There is no path except the path that we have chosen," he said in a radio address to his nation. The speech seemed aimed at preparing the Iraqi people for hardships ahead. 
But in Moscow early Friday, Kremlin spokesman Vitaly Ig­natenko announced that Iraq and the Soviet Union agreed on steps that could lead to an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait and an end to the Persian Gulf War. 
The announcement came after talks between President Mikhail Gorbachev and Iraq's Tariq Aziz on terms of a Soviet peace plan proposed this week. 
Saddam spoke Thursday as his foreign minister was travel­

I 
j 
ing to Moscow with Iraq's re­sponse to the plan. "We will proceed on this path which Tariq Aziz has carried to Moscow," Saddam said, without describing his position on the I i' Soviet plan. Any other course, ' 
he added, would lead Iraq and the Arabs into "indignity and darkness." 

I 
"The response is positive," Ignatenko told reporters im­mediately after the Gorbachev­Aziz meeting. 
Baghdad Radio said Saddam's speech, his first since Feb. 10, 
was taped sometime before delivery. 
About an hour before it was broadcast, Iraq fired more Scud missiles at Saudi Arabia. Shortly after the speech, the Iraqi military announced that units along the Saudi border had crushed a land attack by the U.S.-Ied allies. 
"The aggressors suffered massive losses in personnel and equipment. Many of them were killed or wounded," the military communique said. It was read over Baghdad Radio, which is monitored in Nicosia. 
U.S. military officials in Riyadh confirmed that the American forces were staging armed forays into Iraq and Kuwait in advance of a full­scale land offensive. But there was no report of widespread casualties. 
Allied officials also said two or three Scuds were fired into north-central Saudi Arabia late Thursday afternoon, and were intercepted and destroyed by Patriot missiles. 
In his 40-minute speech, Sad­dam did not say if he was ac­cepting or rejecting the Soviet plan, details of which had not been disclosed prior to the Moscow announcement early Friday. 
The White House said it was disappointed by Saddam's speech; British Prime Minister John Major said it left "n'o glimmer of hope." Germany said Saddam is to blame for any further bloodshed. France said the Iraqi stance was "negative." 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney, addressing Congress, said the allies were preparing for 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS 
Poul Catherine 
GRESK SINGLETON 
1800 INB Tower Indian~, IN 46204 (317) 634-9777 
lni~ol in-office consuhation no d!orge 
rruhl1in,d c~lies 

"one of the largest ground as­saults of modern times." 
From his exile in Saudi Ara­bia, Kuwaiti ruler Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah told his na­tion in a message that "the hour of salvation is near." 
Much of Saddam's speech was taken up with complaints about the allies, particularly the Arab members of the anti-Iraq coalition, and warnings about the battle to come. 
"The Iraqi armed forces ... are ready for the showdown, supported by God and all peo­ple of goodwill," he said. "Our nation and armed forces, in addition to their strong deter­mination for jihad ... are confi­dent of a victorious conclusion to the eye of the battles." 
Jihad is the Islamic term for a holy war. 
Saddam complained that the United States and its allies had promised to end the war if Iraq agreed to withdraw from Kuwait, but then spurned Iraq's offer to withdraw. That offer, delivered last week, was tied to other conditions that the allies considered unacceptable. 
DETAILS OF PEACE 
PLAN 
II Iraq agrees to acomplete, 
unconditional withdrawal from 
Kuwait. 
6 The withdrawal begins the second day after the cessation of hostilities. 
11 The withdrawal takes place in a fixed time frame. 
II After the withdrawal of two-thirds of the Iraqi forces, the United Nations' economic sanctions against Iraq cease to apply. 
1:1 After the full withdrawal, the causes for the remaining U.N. resolutions against Iraq cease to exist. 
llJ After the cease-fire, all prisoners of war will be immediately released. 
1J The withdrawal will be monitored by countries not directly involved in hostilities, to be entrusted by the U.N. Security Council. 
ll] The work of determining details of the agreement continues. 
L------------....IAP 
-SAT&SU]
Cl.~~,."~fSHEID PIGURESMATINEE ~ x rT,.~ 130 
y v--:n.ITE 4:45­m FANG 7:oo­
jodie foster

tho silonco of tho lambs anthony hopkins 
SAT & SUN MATINEE 
115 

sleeping with 4 5­
'4 4:30­
the enemy ® 
7:30­

7:15­9:45
9:30 


AP Photo Specialist William Dunsford of Baker, Fla., holds a puppy, which was found wandering in the desert He and his comrades Staff Sgt Barry Burke and Sgt Thomas berry sit on a tank Tuesday in Saudi Arabia. 
Gospel, war in contradiction says priest 
By ANNMARIE ZELL News Writer 
Father Nicholas Ayo asserted that the messages of the Gospel contradict the current war in the Middle East in his lecture Thursday, titled, "Peacemaking: The Gospel Imperative." 
"Gospel is an astonishing call to love. It tells you to love your enemies," said A yo. "The Gospel is so light, it's blinding. War is so dark, it's blinding. You are looking at a bright light or a black hole", he said. 
In the gospel, Jesus provides an example for Christians to emulate, according to Ayo. " It is impossible for me to imagine Jesus taking someone's life. For anyone to imagine it, it would have to be with much difficulty," said Ayo. 
Further, Ayo said, "If you take Jesus Christ as your savior, the taking of life is a big contradiction. It's a big darkness." 
Ayo referred to an excerpt from Luke as an illustration of where Jesus provides an example of the Christian ideal. Jesus sent John and and James ahead to Jericho to make arrangements for the evening. Upon meeting rejection, James and John asked Jesus whether the people in the city should be punished. Jesus subsequently rebuked the disciples, maintaining a 'love your enemy' attitude. 
The story of the Good Samaritan also exemplifies the ideal that Jesus presents in the Gospel, said Ayo. The Good Samaritan did not pass the wounded man by, although the wounded man was his traditional enemy. 
"This is the traditional ideal: clothe the naked, heal the wounded, including your enemies", said A yo. 
Ayo also believes that the message of the cross contradicts the war. To illustrate his point he referred to Jesus' plea, "Forgive them for they know not what they do," as an example o[ unwavering love despite the circumstances. He described it as the "mystery of love that will not let go." 
However, Ayo acknowledges that the Gospel does not tell a Christian what to do when 
WED., fEH. !..., -SAL. MARCil !. H: 10 P\1 St'N., MARCil :l 3:10 I'M 
WASHINGTON HALL 
llftc,rved Seats $7. Stuci<'lll ai/CI.'i<!IIU>r CitJZI'II dis<:o/111/.\ ti/Yiilllhl<'. U:<•cl. Thurs. t/1/cl S1111 
innocent people are being hurt. Ayo referred to the example of being in a bus where someone was going to kill innocent people. 
Ayo said, "It does not explain whether it is worth taking another person's life to stop 30 deaths? Is one better than thirty?" 
Upon exploring the issue of the Gospel in everyday lives at Notre Dame, one ROTC student voiced her concerns involving the contradiction of being both a Christian and a soldier "trained to take lives." The student contemplated that perhaps it was "her place to bring peace within the military." 
The lecture was co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry, the third lecture in a series· to formulate consciousness and explore the Christian perspective of war and peace during the current Middle East crisis. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Friday, February 22, 1991 page 9 




As of 7a.m. EST AP 
Senate passes law made to protect Guard families 
I I 
I 
I
Iraq avoids linkage for the I I 
I 
I
first time with Soviet proposal I I 
I
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -For Security Council." tions. To Iraq and its sympa­the first time, Iraq has agreed The Iraqi leader said that thizers, it seemed unjust to im­I 
I 
to withdraw from Kuwait with­should include "immediate and pose sanctions and go to war to 
I out linkage to other Middle East unconditional Israeli with­enforce resolutions aimed at I issues, including the Palestinian drawal from occupied Arab getting Iraq out of Kuwait while I cause Saddam Hussein has lands in Palestine, Syria and such measures were not taken I championed. Lebanon; a Syrian withdrawal to enforce Resolution No. 242, I The Soviet-Iraqi plan may from Lebanon; mutual with­which calls for Israeli I contain some points objection­drawals by Iraq and Iran and withdrawal from areas it cap­I I able to the United States and its arrangement for the situation in tured in the 1967 Arab-Israeli Iallies, and its full details are not Kuwait." war. 
I
yet known. That condition, unacceptable Those territories include the 
I 
But noticeably absent from to President Bush and his allies, West Bank, taken from Jordan, the eight main points presented has continued to be part of and the Gaza Strip, won from l Friday morning in Moscow was Iraqi peace proposals, including Egypt. The occupied territories I Saddam's insistence that pulling one issued on Feb. 15. are home to 1. 7 million Pales­I out of Kuwait must involve a The Revolutionary Command tinians who would like to form J comprehensive Middle East Council, headed by Saddam, their own independent state I peace, including Israeli said then that an Iraqi with­there, a goal staunchly opposed I 
I
withdrawal from Arab lands it drawal "should be linked to an by Israel. 
I
has occupied since 1967. Israeli pullout from occupied That has been a mainstay of Palestine and other Arab terri­The eight points of the Soviet 
l
Iraq's policy since Saddam's tories in the Syrian Golan plan disclosed in Moscow 
I 
peace initiative of Aug. 12, 10 Heights and Lebanon. dropped the demands for link­
I 
days after his invasion of "Should Israel resist, the Se­age, but they left the door open I Kuwait. curity Council is to apply for possible additions. I 
At the time, Saddam proposed against Israel the same mea­I "that all the occupation sures applied against Iraq," the The final term announced was I problems, and those that have Iraqi leadership said in its pro­that talks would continue I been portrayed as occupation posal, which was termed by between Soviet and Iraqi offi­I 
I
problems in the region, be re­Bush to be a "cruel hoax." cials on other "details and solved simultaneously and on To many Arabs, the linkage specifications," with results on I the same principles and basis hinged on an equal application those talks expected to be an­I Ithat should be laid by the (U.N.) of U.N. Security Council resolu-nounced later Friday. 
I 

World reacts to Soviet peace proposal 
(AP)-Iraq's acceptance of the Fitzwater told a news confer­ing responses to the proposal Soviet peace plan set off im­ence. came from ambassadors repre­mediate, intensive consultations He said Soviet President senting Arab allied nations. by world leaders on Friday. The Mikhail Gorbachev had ex­Saudi Arabia's Shihabi may proposal was met with some plained the initiative to Bush in have complained about condi­skepticism but not immediate a telephone conversation tions, but Egyptian Ambassador rejection as the allies pored Thursday. Amre Moussa observed, "If this over the provisions. "Too many In London, the Foreign Office is to be made very clear, it will conditions," was the reaction of issued a brief statement early be a very important first step Samir Shihabi, the Saudi Friday saying it had "no reac­toward a political settlement." ambassador to the United Na­tion at present. We want to U.N. Secretary-General Javier tions. study what has come out of the Perez de Cuellar departed 
Both President Bush and Bri­meeting (in Moscow)." through the basement from his tish Prime Minister John Major Reaction was swifter in the office without giving a response were examining the proposal, U.S. Congress, with Sen. Robert to the peace plan, which was which calls for a full and un­Dole of Kansas, the ranking announced in Moscow after a conditional withdrawal from Republican in the upper house, meeting between Gorbachev Kuwait. urging caution. and Iraq's foreign minister, 
Under the plan, the pullout "Let's be very cautious. Let's Tariq Aziz. would begin two days after a be very certain we've examined Few people were stirring cease-fire and would be moni­it carefully," Dole said on the when the news broke early Fri­tored under U.N. auspices by Senate floor. "Let's remember day morning in Desert Storm countries not directly involved that the Soviet Union's only encampments in the Saudi in the war. been an observer in this pro­desert. 
"The United States will con­cess ... And let's remember that One, Navy Capt. Mike Double­sult with its coalition partners. Saddam Hussein may be play­day, a Central Command public The United States and its ing a stalling game." affairs officer, said of Iraqi coalition partners continue to The Soviets are expected to President Saddam Hussein's prosecute the war," White brief the U.N. Security Council acceptance: "Unbelievable! He's House spokesman Marlin on the plan on Friday. Conflict-surrendered to the Russians!" 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate Thursday night passed legislation protecting members of the National Guard and other armed forces reserve units serving in the Persian Gulf from mortgage foreclosure and a host of other legal problems. 
The chamber passed the mea­sure, an amendment to the Sol­diers and Sailors Relief Act of 1940, on a voice vote without dissent and sent it to the House. 
"Passage today is the only way to assure these citizen sol­diers and sailors that their country will not fail to match their commitment to duty," said Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. 
"Let the word go out that America has nothing but un­compromising support for each and every reservist, wherever they serve, whenever they serve and however they serve," he said. 
Earlier Thursday, Rep. Toby Roth, R-Wis., introduced legis­lation that would direct the De­fense Department to allow im­mediate members of a family to be exempted from service within the same combat zone. 
"Losing one member of a family is a real tragedy. Losing more than one, especially when we could have acted in time to prevent it, is too great a sacri­fice for any family," Roth told reporters at a news conference. 

Similar legislation sponsored by Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa.. was defeated Wednesday. The Pen­tagon opposes it. 
Among the protections af­forded the more than 200,000 citizen-soldiers are these: 
*An increase in the maximum rental or mortgage delinquency required before an eviction from $150 to $1,200. 
*Reinstatement of employer­provided health insurance. 
*A prohibition against credit discrimination related to a ser­vice members' credit record. 
*Suspension of malpractice insurance premium payments for physicians called to active duty until their return to the United States. 
*The right to return to the civilian job if called up for more than 90 days. 
Accompanying Roth at his news conference was Jim Sulli­van, the only son of Albert Sul­livan, the youngest of the fa­mous five Sullivan brothers of World War II. The five brothers died when their ship, the light cruiser Juneau, was sunk at Guadalcanal. 

Viewpoint
page 10 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor•••......•...•..•.•...• Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••••••...Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ...••.•.....•••Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .••••••••.•. Amy Eckert Sports Editor •.•...........•••••.. Greg Gulley Production Manager ...••........ Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor............•.... Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr •••. Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •..•...••.•...•••....•.•. Eric Bailey OTS Director ................•...• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •...•... Corinne Pavlis Controller ..•..••.•••.•....•...•. Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
{l
• 

Who are 'students of color?' 

Dear Editor: 
I would like Vice-President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara to please clarify what she means by "students of color." As an international student at Notre Dame, I find this term not only derogatory, but also misleading. 
The use of "color" is anachronistic and reminiscent of the term "colored people" used during the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's. By the way, isn't white a color too? (white: as in pallid, pale color) If you are going to group Blacks, Asians, Hispanics and American Indians (that is, mi­nority/ethnic groups on cam­

I never could understand why people are grouped according to their skin color in America. I prefer to think of an American as an American, but ethnically African-American, Japanese­American, Mexican-American or whatnot. Even among whites you can have German­American, Irish-American peo­ple, etc. It would certainly be a much better world if we could all be "color-blind," so to speak, and instead respect each individual's ethnicity and cul­tural background and treat him/her as a human being wor­thy of the dignity he/she de­serves. 
Friday, February 22, 1991 



Dear Editor: 

We are writing in response to a letter by a Hispanic student felt "compelled to pronounce a Hispanic opinion" concerning SUFR. (Observer, Feb. 15) Being Hispanics ourselves we feel that he has no right to speak on behalf of the entire Hispanic community, thus, we would like to express our individual opinions concerning his unimpressive and contra­dicting gener~lizations. 
First of all, he states that "blacks have chosen auspicious conditions for hell raising" be­cause of the war in the Middle East. This statement does not carry any weight. Where would we be without the Civil Rights Movement that reached it's height during the Vietnam War? 
Mr. Peralez seems to feel that learning only comes from a structured classroom curricu­lum. This blind view obviously relates to his idea that Notre Dame has compromised its standards by allowing HIS admission to the University. Of course, we all realize that igno­rance is bliss, which accounts for Mr. Peralez' living in obliv­ion. We personally feel that our admission to Notre Dame was due to our abilities and not the color of our skin. 
He also seems to be uni­formed about the racial ha­rassment policy which would not only protect the rights of blacks, which Mr. Peralez seems to feel is its main pur­pose, but also those of every student on campus despite their race, origin or color. 
Mr. Peralez assumes that mi­nority professors are less com­petent than others when he states that Notre Dame would have to compromise its stan­dards for faculty by increasing their representation. 
His example of the drastic comments made by the student body president of Morehouse College are merely another in­stance of one individual at­tempting to speak for an entire race. He contradicts himself by condemning the students ex­treme tactics while he, Mr. Peralez, does the same. When he states that "neither Hispanics nor the whole nation" are prepared to embrace blacks, he once again attempts to speak not only for Hispanic people, but for the nation as a whole. We personally do not feel that anyone has the right to express the personal opinions of others, especially those of the nation as a whole. 
Although Mr. Peralez ex­presses pride in his Hispanic culture, he alsc, states that Hispanics are kowtowing (bowing) and being proselytized (converted) to black leadership. How can he believe for one minute that Hispanics, or any other person, would follow a cause that they did not believe in. Furthermore, they would not concede to participating in a organization where every­one's leadership abilities were not employed. 
If Mr. Peralez were truly the proud minority he claims to be, he would never make some dumbfounded, racist remarks towards blacks. In addition, if he is not the racist he appears to be, we can only conclude that his comments were made out of sheer need for attention. 
We would like to conclude by emphasizing that these are in­dividual opinions and not those of an entire community or na­tion. We also feel that it is im­portant to state that we are not members of SUFR. 
Elaine Maldonado Patricia Acosta Knott Hall 
Feb.17,1991 
Dear Editor: 
I wrote an article criticizing the SUFR group, because I feel the organization is counterpro­ducitve to achieving less racial tension. I feel I must respond, because of the misinterpreta­tion of my article by Elizabeth Peterson, (The Observer, Feb. 

12) and Maureen A. O'Reilly :;· (The Observer, Feb. 17). 
Before I begin, I must say that before and after I wrote my 
first article, I had and have had lengthy discussions with active SUFR and BCAC members. I do not liken to the unfair and unsupported accusations that I received in Ms. O'Reilly's letter. Is fairness not what this is all about anyway? 

I did not write the first article to ask everyone to feel sorry for me, and say that I have suffered so many injustices. My whole point is that we are equal. I never made any claims or implications that I am any more disadvantaged than minorities. The only claim I made is that I have received no advantages, and SUFR is exclusive in its goals. 
I get angry when I read claims that SUFR is not trying to achieve racially exclusive goals, because it is so blatantly untrue. The request for sup­plementary scholarships for minority students is in itself ra­cially exclusive. I do not care if every other goal of the organi­zation is reasonable, which is also not true; I will not support the group. 
The group SUFR creates anger, which in turn creates blindness. SUFR creates a dis­turbance that makes it hard to see the goals that would benefit this University. If SUFR wants support of its goals, it must make itself more representative of the whole university. SUFR must refocus, to downplay the racial importance of the group. More can be achieved if every­thing is not all black and white. 
I stated before in my first column that I believe in a unity that can be achieved through non-exclusion and education. I still believe this, and I challenge SUFR to try to make this their goal. Do not exclude me from you goals, and I will be happy to come along. Educate me in your goals, and I will be sympa­thetic. We can work together, if we create understanding and not demands. 
A. Schwartz Cavanaugh Hall 
Feb.19,1991 


Viewpoint
Friday, February 22, 1991 page 11 
LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 

SUFR leader clarifies grievances and demands 
Dear Editor: States, or are disinterested in Notre Dame). In the past year, and may diminish as people be­American students and a single 
Our University's alumni, fac­ethnicity within a land whose attempts have been made by come more culturally aware. administrative authority, i.e. ulty, staff and students pride history is not an integral part of Ethnic American student orga­Also for many students, an Father Malloy. Furthermore, themselves on being members their lives. Although faculty nizations to draw the education at Notre Dame is we require budgeting for the of the "Notre Dame Family." from other countries undoubt­Administration's attention to­made possible through vital fi­second assistant (as promised However, the majority of Notre edly enrich the research and ward this goal. Each attempt, nancial help offered by the by the Administration for the Dame's traditionally underrep­teaching capabilities of this however, has been met with re­University. The University's fi­1991-1992 school year) and in­
resented Ethnic Americans university, they lack the North ferrals to numerous committees nancial aid mechanism does creased respect for and consid­have been alienated and made American experience of race where action on policy not account for 8 percent eration of Ethnic American to feel like step-children in this relations. The students of Notre proposals is suspended indefi­annual tuition increases. In the students' opinions and needs. family. We are misunderstood, Dame cannot expect this nitely. The formal and procedu­disenfranchised, frustrated and, substantial portion of ral requests of students have most importantly, disrespected. "minority" faculty to adequately been collecting dust on the There is a lack of recognition address the questions raised by desks of certain administrators and consideration for our cul­America's racial history and for years. In addition, the moral tural differences and the needs climate. Therefore, it is character and strength of this that arise from those differ­apparent that the data pre­Catholic university's ences. sented in the Spring Affirmative Administration come into seri­
As a result, Students United Action Report of 1990 is in­ous question when a moral is­for Respect (SUFR) has flated due to the definition of sue of human rights is treated emerged at Notre Dame. SUFR terms formulated by the admin­frivolously. While the University is a coalition of Ethnic istration. The actual percent­Administration continues its American students of color ages and numbers of Ethnic rhetoric of commitment to cul­seeking to end the University's American faculty at Notre tural diversity and to ethnic ex­long tradition of disrespect (at Dame are much lower (8 of pression and concerns, it has times through apathy) toward 800, according to the Board of failed to show any tangible and underrepresented Ethnic Trustees Report on Ethnic substantial signs of progress. American concerns. SUFR is American students) once this In regard to a multicultural 
working toward the acknowl­element of the study has been center, the Administration has, edgement of, respect for, and corrected. again, failed to honor the need expression of cultural diversity It is unrealistic to expect that for cultural diversity. Unlike on this campus. The coalition is this small number of Ethnic most quality universities, Notre open to students of all colors American faculty, however dili­Dame has not made an overt case of many Ethnic American The demands and deadlineswho have genuine interest in gent, will be able to rectify the material contribution to the students who depend heavily issued by SUFR respond to theachieving the fruition of SUFR's cultural ignorance of the Notre idea of cultural diversity. The on this assistance, the yearly historical lack of initiative bygoals. SUFR has formulated a Dame community at large. This 10 percent Ethnic American increase in tuition is of great the Administration to addresslist of demands addressing small percentage of the Notre population of University stu­concern. In other words, the these concerns. In past years,imperative campus issues Dame faculty is insufficient to dents, the few Ethnic American real {as opposed to nominal) members of SUFR have at­which it feels have been service the cultural education of professors, and all other stu­
financial needs of Ethnic tempted repeatedly to bring
needlessly and flippantly ne­the Ethnic American compo­dents and faculty members With American students who rely on these issues to the attention ofglected by University adminis­nent of Notre Dame students professional and personal cul­such aid, and all students who administrators through other trators. (10 percent of all enrolled stu­tural interests have been left to suffer the same ordeal, are not formal organizations and pro­Among these demands are dents) as well as the student ponder why they are delegated met. Of 32 highly respected cedures. The Black Culturalpriority efforts on the part of body in general. In light of the cubicle space in the LaFortune universities across the nation Arts Council (BCAC) ap­the University Administration to Administration's repeated Student Center in the midst of (including Princeton, Harvard, proached the Board of Trustees recruit Ethnic American faculty pledges to promote cultural di­two beautiful new buildings Cornell, and Duke,), Notre in 1986-1987 with the need for members, the establishment of versity at Notre Dame and its symbolizing the administra­Dame ranks by far the worst in better financial assistance and a Notre Dame multi-cultural goal to compete with other tion's commitment to the Notre financial assistance to all of its more Ethnic American faculty.
facility, autonomy for the reputable universities, it is im­Dame Band and the Notre 
students. The University During the 1989-1990 aca­
Director of Student Affairs in portant that the Administration Dame R.O.T.C. It should be un­provides less than 25 percent of demic year, representatives ofhiring assistants and in the make unmistakable efforts to derstood that the multicultural its tuition and fees in grants an Ethnic American studentconduct of daily operations af­recruit true Ethnic American center, containing a cultural and scholarship funds while 29 coalition met with Father Oliver fecting ethnic students, a more faculty. reference center as well as ex­of the other 31 schools supply Williams, Associate Provost stable financial aid structure At Notre Dame, we have all hibit space, would enrich the 
at least 50 percent of their Eileen Kolman, and Provost 
for the complete duration of a heard the rhetoric. SUFR be­entire Notre Dame community student's tuition through grants Timothy O'Meara and asked for student's academic career, and lieves that if the Administration by providing a place for cultural and scholarship money. Simply a procedural method of docu­the institution of a racial ha­of Notre Dame were genuinely exchange, expression, and, 
put, there is a minimal menting student grievances
rassment and discrimination serious in its commitment to therefore, enlightenment open commitment to financial aid (which today are voiced bypolicy. diversify its faculty, it would to all people of all colors. 
being made by the SUFR). Native American stu­The University Academic have little problem in increas­Another point of action SUFR Administration of Notre Dame, dents have had contact for Affirmative Action Report for ing its efforts to bring under­calls for is the inclusion of and the Financial Aid Office many years with the the Spring of 1990 reports that represented Ethnic American Ethnic American studies in the does not offer financial security Administration and have been "Total minorities equal only scholars to this prestigious in­form of required courses for spanning the duration of a stu­particularly active within the11.0 percent," of the "regular stitution. It has been argued Notre Dame students. This may dent's college education. SUFR, last two years in voicing their 
teaching and research" faculty. that there is an alarming na­take many forms: an ethnic which can only speak for its concerns. Also within the pastThe study cites 0. 9 percent tionwide shortage of Ethnic studies graduation require­
constituency of mostly Ethnic two years, the Multicultural African American representa-American faculty which compli-ment, the addition of African 
American students, requires Executive Council formally ap­that more funds be allotted for proached the Administration 
financial assistance programs regarding the need for a multi­and that necessary reforms en­cultural center. And finally, in compassing the needs of a four the Fall of 1990, BCAC officers or five year education for spoke with Father Malloy about Ethnic American students (and many of the appeals now de­others if desired) be discussed, manded by SUFR. Each appeal formulated and enacted. 
has been met with the same The final SUFR demand to be noncommittal and disregard discussed is the issue of auton­toward student grievances. In omy for the Director of Minority some cases, students have been Student Affairs in the hiring of summarily referred to slow and assistants and in the conduct of ineffective bureaucratic proce­tion, 3.9 percent Hispanic rep­cates the recruitment task. American, Native American, daily operations concerning dures already exhausted. resentation, 6.3 peN:ent Asian This neither excuses mediocre Hispanic, Pacific Islander, and Ethnic American students. Essentially, each appeal has composition, and no Native· efforts by the University Asian American studies to the Within the past two years, the been met by lip-service treat­American professors. Although administration toward this goal Freshman Year Program opinions of dormitory rectors ment, a lack of enthusiasm, the report is evidence of some nor explains the success of (seminar and composition) or have been more instrumental much stalling, and little action. effort on the part of the other universities in their to core courses in all colleges in the (non-) hiring of Office Thus, the members of SUFR Administration to address the campaigns to attract Ethnic­through appropriate means. assistants than the formal have taken it upon themselves lack of diversity, the data and American faculty. If Notre The demand is not intended to recommendations of the to formulate and present these conclusions of the study are Dame can compete successfully force-feed the history of an ig­Director of Minority Student demands to the Administration. 
Although we have been critical 
inaccurate. with other colleges for nored culture down the throat Affairs and Ethnic American The study is predicated on an endowment, monetary of Notre Dame students any student screening committees. of the Administration, it is extremely generous and unac­contributions and athletic more than a theology course The procedural recommenda­SUFR's hope that some day this 
ceptable definition of talent, why should it not do so aims at stuffing Catholicism tions of those people who university will be culturally di­"minority." The report counts in its commitment to cultural into the hearts and minds of would have the most contact, verse and responsible to all of non-U.S. citizens as "minority" diversity? non-Catholic students. Rather, by far, with such assistants its students. Perhaps on that or, as we prefer, Ethnic Secondly, it is an overt sign of it would foster an awareness of were rudely disregarded. SUFR day we may all be able to confi­American. This is misleading neglect and ignorance (or ar­ethnicity and cultural heritage seeks to bypass the bureau­dently and proudly proclaim 
on the grounds that some rogance) that a university of among students (perhaps fac­cratic red tape of administra­that "WE AREND." teaching and research faculty such global stature does not ulty as well) and encourage re­tors least affected by the Office are imported from foreign have an effective and concrete spect for ethnic histories, peo­of Minority Student Affairs ac­Pedro Villegas 
Students United for

countries and are either oblivi­racial harassment policy ples, and values. Much of the tivities, and demands autonomy ous to the unique nature of (encompassing the on-campus racism we all experience is due for the Director, holding him Respect 
Off-Campus

race relations in the United and off-campus students of to ignorance of other cultures accountable only to Ethnic 


ji 
~ 
I. 
~ 
( l 
I 

FEBRUARY 22 -24 


weekend calendar 
y 
MUSIC 

The Generics, Alumni-Senior Club, 10 p.m. New Earth Band, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Good Question, McCormick's, 10 p.m. Harvey &the Blues News, Midway Tavern, 810 W. 4th 
Mishawaka, 9:30 p.m. 3 Speed Driving Rock, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
THEATRE "While the Lights Were Out," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Free admission. 
sa y 

MUSIC 

Jester, Club 23, 10 p.m. Southside Denny, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. Doorknob Lore, Bridgers, 10 p.m. Web of Lies, Midway Tavern, 810 W. 4th St., Mishawaka, 
9:30p.m. 

EVENTS BCAF Fashion Show, Monogram Room, JACC, 7:30 p.m. 
THEATRE "While the Lights Were Out,"Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. Free admission. 
y 
. 
s• 
MUSIC 

Music, Motion and Form, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2:30 p.m. 
s
,
• . 
FRIDAY 

"Mo' Better Blues," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. "Ghost," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY "Mo' Better Blues," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. "Ghost," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10:30 p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "Silence of the Lambs," 4:30, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m. 
"WhHe Fang," 4:45,7 & 9:30p.m. "LA. Story," 5, 7:30 &9:45 p.m. 
a 2 2 a 2 a 
A South Bene 
r 


Super food sets Old Spaghetti W head and shoulders above the 
By ROBYN SIMMONS shoulders above many area sauce (a unique combination of impossible Assistant Accent Editor restaurants. tomatoes, green peppers, tire plate, 
The meals come with either mushrooms, onion, brown ing sever 
n the South soup or salad and a basket of sauce, sweet and dry ver­bread. 
I 
Bend/Mishawaka area, piping hot garlic bread. The mouth), alfredo, white clam and For tho! 
old factories don't fall garlic bread is generously red clam sauce. have eno1 
under the wrecking coated with garlic seasoning The fettucini with alfredo stomachs I 
ball; they are turned and cheese, and it's absolutely sauce is a staple at most Italian Spaghetti ' into restaurants. Out of all of incredible. restaurants, and the Old sweets sw these renovated factories, the It's a good idea to pace your­Spaghetti Works does a good cannolli, as Old Spaghetti Works, located on self if you're eating the garlic job of preparing an alfredo and crea 501 N. Niles Av. in South Bend, bread. There is a great tempta­sauce that isn't too thick or too Mousse Pie is clearly the best of the lot. tion to go through several bas­bland. 
It's little wonder why the Old kets of it and not have any Other: favorites at the Old Don't let Spaghetti Works is a South room left to eat the main Spaghetti Works include renovated I Bend favorite. The food is ex­course. lasagna ($8). Manager's Pot­Old Spagh« cellent, the servings are gener­pourri ($6. 95) and The Works of the bes ous and the prices are very rea­The Old Spaghetti Works spe­($6.50). The Manager's Pot­Bend/Misl sonable. The decor is a hodge­cializes in pasta. Patrons can pourri is mostaciolli with selec­restauran1 podge of turn-of-the-century choose their own combination tion of marinara, white clam Works Hot• advertisements and other arti­of pasta and sauce. There are sauce and Hunter's sauce. The own bar. facts, including memorabilia six types of pasta: fusilli Works is another combination Anyone' from the old Studebaker fac­(corkscrew pasta), fettucini, platter with lasagna, ravioli and formal con tory. linguini, angel hair, mostaciolli spaghetti. this restau 
This local touch sets the Old and spaghetti. The Veal Parmigiana ($7.50) good !tali Spaghetti Works apart from The sauces range in price is highly recommended. The works, stu other Italian restaurants, but from $4.95 to $6.50. The Old veal is covered with melted stray far f the food is what really puts the Spaghetti Works offers mari­cheese and red sauce and rests an afford1 Spaghetti Works head and nara, meat sauce, hunter's on a bed of pasta. It's almost dining expf 
r 


Polo Club does not live up to its olVn billing as 'fine dining' 
By ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN to be European cuisine, but it certain that our waiter called Accent Writer evidently joins the ranks of the the choices on the dessert menu illustrious at the Polo Club.) "low-calorie." The management erhaps the The appetizers had more ap­certainly hadn't had a stand-up
P 
management of the peal than the rest of the menu; routine before that point in the Polo Club felt they the sauteed mushrooms come evening, so it seems unlikely it had a good thing highly recommended and are would start then. going with South generously portioned. It would The atmosphere of the Polo Bend's new restaurant, but this have been even better had the Club definitely wasn't designed city has seen more promising correct silverware been placed by Ralph Lauren. The effect of a places. on the table with the appetiz­very square room with a lot of 
The Polo Club, a "fine dining ers, which shouldn't be too dusty rose, brick, wood and establishment" located at 1345 much to ask of a fine dining beige vinyl with a really odd 
N. Ironwood, just does not have establishment that makes the mirror is that of a banquet hall. the atmosphere, excellent pretense of serving sherbert to The restaurant has more than service or any sign of outstand­'cleanse the palate.' one room with plenty of ing food to keep customers sat­I would prefer to refrain from seating, but these surroundings isfied. commenting on the salad, but just aren't that attractive. The 
With prices equivalent to I'll just mention that the salad attitude of the management 
those of Tippecanoe's, one dressing could in no way makes the restaurant out to be 
would expect quite a bit from disguise the amount of brown something mighty great, but the 
this new competitor, but it just lt>ttuce presented on the plate. attitude doesn't match up with 
seems to fall short. A limited The dessert choices were sur­service or style. 
menu may be expected at such prisingly disappointing, mainly The Polo Club isn't such a bad 
an establishment, but in itself because carrot cake seems place, it's just not special. Me­
the food is nothing to write pretty typical and the other two diocrity doesn't make it when 
home about. choices were the lemon torte you want a nice dining experi­
The regular choices of veal, and the black forest cherry ence in South Bend. The $15 
steak, fish or chicken are ex­torte. You can't win if you're average price of a main course actly what one expects on a anti-torte or want something isn't outrageous. but there are menu promising "European other than carrot cake, which restaurants in the same range Cuisine," but the chicken stir was actually pretty tasty. in this city that are more pleas­fry makes a surprising appear­My companion and I are still ing with the food, aesthetics ance. (I never considered that wondering why we were both and service. 
page 13 

ttd dining adventure 
ti Works the rest 
impossible to finish off the en­tire plate, especially after eat­ing several slices of garlic bread. 
For those diners who still have enough room in their stomachs for dessert, the Old Spaghetti Works offers Italian sweets such as spumoni and cannolli, as well as a super rich and creamy Rocky Road Mousse Pie. 
Don't let the outside of this renovated factory fool you. The Old Spaghetti Works has some of the best food in the South Bend/Mishawaka area. The restaurant is attached to the Works Hotel and it also has its own bar. 
Anyone who has an SYR or formal coming up should keep this restaurant in mind. For a good Italian meal with the works, students don't have to stray far from campus to find an affordable and enjoyable dining experience. 
J 

g' 
r 
r called 


rt mnnu tgement ;tand-up 1t in the 
Gina's offers the best pizza you can get
11ikely it 
.he Polo 
IPsigned 
in the South Bend area--plus they deliver 
!Teet of a 
a lot of By JENNIFER SOUKUP istic curiosity got the better of edge. sticks or garlic bread. The 1od and Accent Writer me. They offer one creation called prices are competitive, with a 11Iy odd The place itself is small and "Our Famous Everything." The large combination pizza costing LJet hall. he next time you get very sparsely decorated, with menu claims "full portions of $13.98. The average delivery [)re than T the urge to order a only two booths, one bench, a ten toppings," and they are not time is 25-35 minutes, depend­mty of pizza, instead of cooler, and a phone that looks kidding. We saw one of these ing on the volume of business. ,undings calling Domino's or like a pizza cook tossing a pie. monsters before it was deliv­Gina's is open until midnight ive. The Pizza Hut, try Gina's The lack of ambience is not a ered. It was a pizza to be reck­every night, but the last orders gement instead. You won't be problem for the owner. as it is oned with, capable of calming are taken twenty minutes be­ut to be disappointed. primarily a take out/delivery even the worst study-induced fore closing. They will accept . but the Located at 1740 South Bend operation. hunger with ease. student checks. (Off campus up with Avenue, Gina's is new to the In addition to pizza, Gina's students may have to show a 
area and relatively unknown. Fortunately, the real allure of also offers sandwiches, includ­school ID to get check writing ~h a bad This is unfortunate. a restaurant is not in the deco­ing Italian sausage, stromboli, privileges.) ial. Me­rating, but in the food. The and an "Original Scapooch," This is one of the better piz­it when The original Gina's is located pizza is fabulous. The dough which features turkey, ham, zas, and certainly the best pizza · experf­in Niles, Mich., where it has and the sauce are homemade, pepperoni, onions, cheese, let­available with delivery, that I ihe $15 been turning out pizzas for al­and the sausage is specially tuce, and mayonnaise. They have ever had. My room has a 1 course most 20 years. The South Bend made from Gina's recipe. Ev­also have items such as garlic new pizza delivery number wre are store opened three months ago erything is amazingly fresh. bread, bread sticks, and Pizza posted near the phone. Their e range and is hoping for similar suc­We're not talking assembly line Gretel, another Gina's original. slogan is "Everybody Loves ·e pleas­cess. I must admit, I was wor­pizza here. The toppings, in­The best part is that every­Gina's." Well, they have cer­sthetics ried when we pulled up to a cluding the cheese, are gener­thing is available for delivery, tainly made a believer out of 
former gas station, but journal-ous and leave little crust at the except for a lone order of bread me. 
., 
I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
., 

.......................................................................... 
Friday, February 22, 1991

page 14 The Observer 

An open letter to the Commander-in-Chief 
Dear Mr. President: 
I saw you on television last Sunday, walking on the beach at Kennebunkport, and decided you look credible as a beach­walker. Beachwalkers are born to walk tall; otherwise, all that convergence of earth, sea, and sky can leave them looking like a shipwreck, or like J. Alfred Prufrock, measuring out his life with coffee spoons. 
Prufrock, humiliated by his vision of Neptune's daughters, does not have the image a President needs: "I grow old ... I grow old ... I I shall wear the bottom of my trousers rolled./ Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach?/ I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach.. " 
Jack Kennedy in his wind­breaker, and Bobby Kennedy barefoot and shirtless, looked at home on the beach. That's because they were good-looking Irish men and knew the dress code. Richard Nixon, striding the sands at San Clemente wearing a three-piece suit and Florsheims, was an embar­rassment. The lifeguard should have taken him in for loitering. 
But you, Mr. President, in your sports cap and parka, kept all your Prufrockisms hid­den, and we could have called you Ishmael. Melville told us, "Water and meditation are wedded forever;" and so, as the President who must find himself "growing grim around the mouth," because of the immi­nent ground war, using the coast of Maine for a stage must have been your substitute for a sea voyage. 
I grew up on the Maine coast, 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

down east from your 
bells, Mr. President, I was clas­cove, so I have a favor to sified as a 4-F in WW II be­When you finish using your pri­cause my ticker had kinks in it. vate beach, could you please I still have the same damaged deed it back to the people of heart, only it's 50 years older, Maine? but it's in the right place. 
The natives have always re­If, as the Commander-in­sented the rich tourists who in­chief, you could pull some vade their state in the summer, strings for me, I would join Op­fencing in the loveliest inlets eration Desert Storm as an' and harbors with access to the itinerant padre, wearing a de­sea, maintaining them back to cent black suit instead of a uni­back as a millionaires' play­form, needing only a Mass kit ground. and confessor's stole, and for­
Mr. President, you may never saking the perquisites paid to a see this letter, unless you sub­regulation holy Joe whom the scribe to the Observer, serving Service commissions. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. You may think I'm grand­
I'm not sure what you have standing, Mr. President, but I heard about my criticism of swear by my faith in the Holy your war, but to be honest, the Ghost, this request to be made dropping of all those bombs a sky pilot by executive order is leaves me ashamed as a filled with an old man's deepest patriot. yearning to be of use to "the 
As a way of supporting the kids," as you call them. Didn't troops, must I pray that those you promise them that they will bombs hit their target, and not have to fight with one hand make a blind act of faith that tied behind their backs? children are not becoming the As to the warmongering it­victims of a holocaust? It self, I don't know what Billy makes me sick to think of our Graham said to anesthetize young people as part of a your conscience, but I think fighting machine that is blind that, as a Christian leader, you to and mindless in the damage have opened an unforgivablyit does. tragic can of worms. 
To show you my good will Do you remember the last towards the Americans who are book of the Bible, called the bearing arms on a foreign field Apocalypse or the Revelation of half a world away, I'd like to John? The apostle John on offer myself as an unofficial Patmos has a vision of four chaplain serving the army. I'd horses, each of a different voluntarily enlist, but hell's color, and their riders--person­ifying the four major plagues of mankind: war, famine, pesti­lence, and death--are referred to as the Four Horsemen of of the Apocalypse. 
Apocalypse 6:8 has a horror to it that chills the heart: "And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell fol­lowed with him." 
I'm sorry to say, fearless leader, that you are the sponsor who has almost single-handedly unleashed the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse on the world, and for what? Compared to the crimes against humanity that this century has seen, Saddam's invasion of Kuwait ranks with the third-rate burglary at the Watergate. 
In five years, you tell us, Sad­dam, left unchecked, could be­come another Hitler. You should have watched PBS film footage on Hitler's invasion of Russia. The Germans chalked up over 3 million casualties in less than six months, before the invasion was finally halted by the Russian winter. 
Saddam isn't a fleabite on a bear's backside when compared to Hitler. Sending the Four Horsemen against Saddam is to bring this planet the risk of the nuclear winter. The truth may be that we could have nailed him with sanctions. 
As a Yalie, Mr. President, you must know that New England is notorious for inciting moral passion. Cotton Mather saw a gaggle of old women hanged because his conscience grew indignant over witchcraft. The Abolition movement in Boston sparked the flame leading to the war which freed 4 million slaves. Prescott, the Harvard historian, justified the rape of Mexico by the Spanish: the con­quistadors, in their rage for gold, brought an end to the human sacrifices which made the religion of Mexico bar­barous. 
Many Christians are indignant at the human sacrifice that goes on in America under the title of legalized abortions. Abortions in America could turn out to be the greatest crime in history. 
What would you say, Mr. President, if an army of Chris­tian crusaders--zealous like the abolitionists united against slavery--started to shed blood in the street in their war to bring an end to .abortion? You'd probably remind us on television: "We're not revolu­tionaries in a banana republic. Ballots, not bullets, are the American way." 
Civil war is no answer to our domestic crimes and national sins. Foreign wars against ci­ties that are not our own is no answer to the crimes that are committed abroad against other nations. 
What do you think would happen to this country if a peacemaker were elected to serve in the Oval Office? At our backs would we continue to hear/ the Horsemen of the Apocalypse hurrying near? 
Mr. President, you must dream of Flanders fields where "poppies blow/ Between the crosses, row on row." Shake­speare wrote: "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown." May God bless you and Mrs. Bush. 

Friday, February 22, 1991 The Observer page 15 
early in the fourth quarter and finished with 10 points.
Garagiola enters Hall of Fame Semis 
Griggs then made his presence known on offense,COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. (AP)­began his television-radio ca­1968-73. He rejoined the show continued from page 17 scoring 12 second-half points to 
Joe Garagiola, one of baseball's reer with the St. Louis last year. Garagiola also has with five apiece. Flanner was finish with 19 overall. 
best story-tellers for nearly 40 Cardinals in 1955, worked on been a game show host on "To led by Griggs Midgett with five. "It was hard to rebound years, will enter the Hall of the New York Yankees' televi­Tell the Truth" and "Sale of the He was followed by Lake tonight. Ray was able to control Fame this summer as recipient sion crew in 1965-66 and spent Century". Dawson and Bryant Dabney the pace of the game with his of the Ford C. Frick Award for the 1990 season with the In a nine-year career as a who both added four. rebounding," Flanner coach 
broadcasting. California Angels' TV team. catcher with the Cardinals, Flanner got in foul trouble Mike Trainor said. "Cavanaugh
Garagiola was a fixture on Garagiola worked on NBC's Pittsburgh, Chicago Cubs and early in the second half. so it played real well tonight. TheyNBC-TV's "Game of the Week" "Today" show from 1962-73 New York Giants, Garagiola could not be as aggressive on are a well-rounded team. The telecasts through the 1960s. He and served as co-host from batted .257 with 42 home runs. the boards. Dabney fouled out final should be a great game." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

I NEED ride to Boston For sale: one round trip TIX to ••••ATIENTION JUNIORs•••• MAH-BENJY (M.S.)-You're the ultimate! Will split gas & driving Padre tor spring break. Price Vote the write-in ticket that Do I stand a chance March 7, 8, or 9 negotiable. Call x4833. is sweeping the campus: WHATCHU DO? among your many admirers?
I NOTICES ] 
Derek x1373 DENNIS-BRIAN-DAVE-TOM YOU NO DO NUH! -Hopelessly infatuated Round trip Tix to Boston tor spring "Senior Class Government TYPING AVAILABLE I need a ride to BALTIMORE break-Mar. 8-17. from S.B. Must on a First-Name Basis" LOVE CC, I'd love to pay homage to u 287-4082 WASH DC area for Spring Sell! $99 call Chris 273-9316 We're serious. STE. sumlime in P"W" (u have a great 
Break -Emily x4097 Just write "Dennis." eye tor detail. other things aside). NY TIMES, used and new books but my lowly status compels me to Pandora's Books 233-2342 Beginning Friday morning at SLOAN, enter my own house of worship, the
I I PERSONALS I
corner of ND ave. & Howard Coach's ... THE DRIVE TO 'brar, tor the weekend. 
FOR RENT 
10·5:30 everyday 

'-----------" DO YOU ENJOY WORKING WITH SURVIVE!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM THE 
PEOPLE? MARRIED WOMEN AT CHEERS, Our Brother. SPRING BREAK!!! $136.00 GRAD. WEEKEND If you are searching for an " ..... oxygen masks are located THE FARLEY CHICKS AND YOUR ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY opportunity that will allow you to directly above your seats. In ROOMIES! ERIC CHRISTIANSEN IS 21! 
GREYHOUND GOES. 219-291-7153. earn an exceptionally large income the event of an emergency, RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 while helping people. call 291-2964 pull the masks down . Here's to his first beer... ??? 
3 Bedroom Homes. for an appointment. TIRED OF THE SAME OLD Dissertations, Theses, Papers Walk to campus. JESTER..........we're not SCENE? love, Professional Typing 232-3616 CLUB 23 afraid to fly. Check out 277-7406 Daily Specials. New addition: Nadine & 
Move Off Campus in '91-'92. The Coffee House SATURDAY (23) -CLUB 23 "GOOD QUESTION" Denise 
Tired of the protesters? Want to 3 great houses avail. Sign Bring your books and come show real support for our troops? lease before break and get study, or just come socialize. CLUB 23 CLUB 23 CLUB 23 at McCORMICK'S -TONITE!!II Sea Monkey Conspiracy Call 289-1321, leave your name & discount. Call now 288-5653. Open daily 4pm-3am. SATURDAY 23RD SATURDAY 
number. FRITZ KLEIN is looking for a new singer or 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart. CLUB 23 COME OUT AND SEE FUTURE I saw you out Wednesday night, singer/guitarist willing to begin WORD PROCESSING Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms K-tel LEGENDS.......... and I could barely restrain myself immediately. Please call Thorn Low Rates= 277-6091 for Daily Specials. New addition: from making a public display of my x3334 or Kevin x3347 
Graduation weekend. Located at The Coffee House JESTER red-hot, cajun-spiced affection. I TYPING term Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart Bring your books and come long to hold you in my arms and "Always a playground instructor, papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick (12 miles from South Bend) study, or just come socialize. In their SALUTE to DEAD rock look into your eyes, all the while never a killer" up & delivery available. 277-5134 Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 Open daily 4pm-3am. stars ........ enjoying your love nectar. Respond Break on through with­Cathy deposit per room. Send letter with here if you feel the same. DOORKNOB LORE 
deposit to 3011 CLUB 23 SATURDAY 23rd SATURDAY •••a lustful admirer••• SAT. AT BRIDGET'S Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, Daily Specials. New addition: CLUB 23 CLUB 23 CLUB 23 "Did you have a good world when
LOST/FOUND 

IN 46514. The Coffee House Hey Sweet-urns-you died-enough to base a movie 
Bring your books and come Now that "IT" is finally on?" LOST -ROYAL BLUE/GOLD FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. study, or just come socialize. MODELS WANTED FOR here. we can both take it WATERMAN FOUNTAIN PEN IN Prime locations. 233-Open daily 4pm-3am. ADVANCED HAIRCUTIING easy. This weekend will The Countdown Has Begun VICINITY OF ARCHITECTURE 9947. CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-be awesome ... you ARE the Only Eight More Days Until BLDG./OLD COLLEGE. CLUB 23 1875. best date ever! luv, L.B. Cruiser Turns 21 !! SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. Daily Specials. New addition: 239-6546. The Coffee House Photography tor Formals-Halls­Mike
FOR SALE 
Bring your books and come CinPW-Dances-ROTC. Call IHS LOST: FOR SALE study, or just come socialize. Giad you liked the rose. Photography at 234-8539. I spent last night dreaming of 
MY CLOTHES. LAST SEEN IN Macintosh Plus with two BOOK disk Open daily 4pm-3am. You'll find out soon. your eyes A WASH. HALL DRYER. drives and word processing There's something for you To all ENGL 491 A warriors: "All But your hair kept getting in the INCLUDES SHIRTS. RUGBY software. Call Alison at 283-4011. CLUB 23 above the mailboxes in wars are boyish and are fought by way SWEATS, AND PANTS. Daily Specials. New addition: Cavanaugh. M. boys." words to live (and die) by. Your lips dropped in to tell me 
I NEED MY CLOTHES BACK. CD FOR SALE The Coffee House how you'd been $$$REWARD OFFERED$$$ Double CD of "EAGLES LIVE"­Bring your books and come FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY But when I tried to kiss them X-1252 Excellent condition except for study, or just come socialize. AUDITIONS CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. My pillow told me I missed them 
2nd CD which skips a few times. Open daily 4pm-3am. LOST: Keys on Nike key chain BEST OFFER. Call NOW!! AUDITIONS •• Spring Break Money •• Your voice dropped by and sang between x2051. •••EXPO ROMA••• Notre Dame Fed Credit Union a lullaby j Walsh and Niewland. •••EXPO ROMA••• AUDITIONS No Co-Signer Necessary And it was then I knew just what j PLEASE call Meg at x2693. "2 1 -way airline tickets to San •••EXPO ROMA••• •• See Our Ad •• to do 
j Francisco. Feb. 27. $1 00 This week at Architecture Building. SHAKESPEARE I'd tall asleep and then 
j

FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in 684-7203." BALLROOM DANCE CLUB I'd dream of you again. 
I

the snow near P.E. Call x4530. I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia tor SHAKESPEARE 
j

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will DANCE·A-THON -Don't forget the jar of cherries! LOST: Buying a car? Good rates. Call me enjoy my company. SHAKESPEARE Amy 
I 

A 35mm camera was left hanging tor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. UP MALL 
j

on the coat rack in Room 101 of Office near campus. SPRING BREAK SPECIAL Auditions for Shakespeare's For Sale: Galvin Life Sciences on Sat. the SAVE SAVE SAVEll "Comedy of Errors" will be held SAT. FEB 23 14 ct. gold art deco ring, very large I 16th-during JPW weekend. If you 1/2 of round trip TIX to CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF Thursday, Feb. 28 and Friday, garnet, 3 small diamonds. $500 or j have any info. , please please call: La Guardia Airport FUN AND SUN!! March 1 . All interested in acting or OINK! You're next ... best offer. 
I 

Tim #1151 leaves Mar 9 Sat from SB SUN SPLASH TOURS backstage productions, please Erin Smith, 287-2587. 
I 

@12:25pm 1-800-426-771 0. attend. This is being done solely for Vote tor THE FOUR CLASSMEN 
I 

FOUND: WRISTWATCH ON FEB. Call X1346 Annie -...... the love of the theater. Place and 
I

141N FRONT OF BREEN-PHILIPS. lisa. time to be announced in "Of Vote for THE FOUR CLASSMEN J
CALL277-5912 OR 239-6886 1-Way air ticket, SB-Tampa, 10 Mar. Happy 22nd birthday to my Interest" section and this space next 
SAVE 
j

(Romance languages) 7 am. $85. Call272-7503. older half! I am very excited about week. For more details, contact Vote tor THE FOUR CLASSMEN 
Mon -Thurs 
I

this weekend. It should Scott Brutocao at 234-1048 or Paul 
Feb 25-28 
I

LOST: gold ring in Gym 2 of ACC on HEARSE, 1975 OLDSMOBILE be one we will always Salvatoriello at x1355. Vote for THE FOUR CLASSMEN 
for Mon 2118. Family heirloom. Please EXCELLENT CONDITION remember. 
I 

call x2755 BEST OFFER -CALL PAUL IN Love always, Vote for THE FOUR CLASSMEN 
I

Nr!can Film Festival 
CHICAGO 312-235-6959 Mike Class of 1991 
I 

•••wEDDING WEEK••• Needed: 
8:00P.M. 
I 

Found : corduroy ND cap after Wanted: Caring, Energetic, TONITE-Rehearsal Dinner A ride to Ft. lauderdale 
CSC Multi-Purpose Room 
I 

Depaul game in band room under TICKETS Responsible Individual to care for 3 Bruno's 4:30-6:30 area between approx. March 
I

stands. Call Man-x 3472. 1 /2 year old and 1 year old in my $4 all you can eat 5-7. Willing to help drive and 
GREAT FILMS! 
I

S.B. home. Flexible hours. Own SAT-Weddingless Reception pay tor gas. Call 4936, Karen. 
I

BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING transportation. References. HI's. Niles 9-1am Thanks! BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING $3.00/hr. Kathie Hors d'oeuvres,cake 
WANTED 

BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING 289-1709 for interview. $6 a person-no date 
required. SYR attire. BONESSI To "Not a Brunette," ACCENT ON FUN! Coed. Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm Need ride to NJ. Busses leave Main Circle Keep your hands off!-Benjy's mine! sleepaway camp in Massachusetts 7:30pm Sprg brk. at8:30 I stare and I stare love, seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, will pay$$$. 'Cuz I'm very aware Maisie 
lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts. all Wed. Feb. 27. 1991 7:30pm Kevin x4043 NOMOI of how shy I am. land & water sports, fitness. NOMOI gymnastics. piano/play tor shows. Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm Attention: Your dreams have come true drama, judo, dance, archery, 1991 BENGAL BOUTS Forget about Hussein so open your eyes, Marianne (Bubs). photography, computers, model Show your s~,;pport and buy tickets PROMOTIONS COMMITIEE (both of them) and go to I'm staring at you. Chin up! Cheer up! Good luck in rocketry, guitar, radio, video, from the student boxers !!! (Sandy, Bill, Alan, Howie, Sean. Mo, C-ya every Tues & Thurs Walsh elections. Don't stress-you yearbook, newspaper, wilderness. John, and Larissa) BRIDGET'S I work too hard. woodwork, RN. For sale-One rnd trp ticket to SAT. FEB 23 Good Luck!!! 
6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Orlando. Florida tor Spring Break. IMPORTANT pre-tournament DOORKNOB LORE Airline Ticket for Sale love, me Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY Price Negotiable. Call x1891. meeting: Friday, Feb 22 @ 6pm -CLASSIC ROCK to Corpus Christi, TX 10707. 800-955-CAMP. JACC Boxing room (Next to South Padre) Toddles. 
FOR SALE: rd trp tkt. Kzoo.MI to "I touched her thigh and for Spring Break Good luck in elections! Have a EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/8,retum 3/17, ??s or problems, call me. death smiled" REAL CHEAP swell weekend! READING BOOKS AT HOME. must be female, VERY CHEAP! Until then, SELL SHIRTS!!! -Jim Call x2090 love, CALLI-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. x4859 Thanks -Amy Ask for Rob Your Walsh admirers. 
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 22, 1991 
Women's tennis hosts three matches 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
After consecutive losses to William & Mary and Indiana, two top tennis programs, the Notre Dame women's tennis team will try to bounce back this weekend, hosting three matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
On Saturday, the Irish (6-2) play host to Iowa at 10 a.m., and then face LSU at 9 a.m. Sunday and Minnesota at 2 p.m. 
Said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "It will be impor­tant to have a strong showing because we went 1-2 last week­end and finished losing the last two. I think everyone was a little down after the Indiana match. 
"With three matches in two days. it's very important that we have a good weekend. The next match after this is against Northwestern, and they are ranked third in the region, so that will be a big match for us. I think this weekend will have a lot to do with how we play the next couple weeks after that." 
This will be an Irish squad hampered by injuries that at­tempts to end a two-match skid this weekend. Katie Clark, a solid player at singles and dou­bles, injured her back before the road trip last weekend and will not be playing. 

"I have a slipped disc," said Clark, "and will be going to see a back specialist on Friday. There is usually a mandatory rest time with this type of in­jury. We have a lot of depth, so I think we'll be alright, but it really depends on who is healthy and playing." 
Christy Faustmann may make her return to the Irish lineup this weekend, but even if she is able to play, her action will be limited. Louderback did not want to take any chances in rushing the 43rd-ranked player in the country back into action. 
Also, Terri Vitale has been sick and Tracy Barton is nurs­ing a sore shoulder. With all of the injuries, Louderback did not know what the probable lineup would be. 
"If we are short-handed, then we will have to play extremely well," Louderback said. "Iowa lost a close 6-3 match to Indiana, so they are a strong team. LSU has received votes in the current poll, and Minnesota also fell 6-3 to Indiana. All three teams are talented and the matches should be very competitive." 
Coming off consecutive losses and ~laying three matches in two days with a squad hurt by injuries, the Irish will have to be focused on the weekend. 
"The way we lost to William & Mary made it tough to bounce back against Indiana." Vitale said. "We might not have been mentally ready. Hopefully, if everyone can stay healthy, we'll do well. We want to play better this weekend, to redeem ourselves." 
With many big matches com­ing up for the Irish the remain­der of the season, a strong per­formance this weekend would provide a tremendous confi­dence boost for the team in its quest for an NCAA tournament bid. 
"From here on in, we can't lose the big matches," Ann Bradshaw, a doubles specialist, said. "We have to break into the top 20 if we want a (tournament) bid. It's not like we're there and have to worry about losing it. We have to earn it." 

Top-seed Ivan Lendl easily advanced at the Volvo Indoor tournament in Memphis, beating no. 16 Paul Haarhuis 6-2, 6-1. 
SCOREBOARD 

NHL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon w L NY Rangers 31 21 Pittsburgh 32 26 Philadelphia 29 27 New Jersey 25 25 Washington 27 31 NY Islanders 21 33  T 10 3 7 11 3 8  Pta 72 67 65 61 57 50  GF 233 267 208 212 195 181  GA 195 229 197 202 210 229  Home 18·9-5 21-11-1 16-12-5 17-8-7 15-11-2 12-15-5  Away 13-12-5 11-15-2 13-15-2 8-17-4 12-20-1 9-18-3  DIY 11-8-4 15-11-0 9-12-6 9-12-5 14-11-1 9-13-4  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvialon w L Pet Boston 39 13 .750 Philadelphia 27 24 .529 ~York 22 31 .415 Washington 22 32 .407 N-Jersey 17 35 .327 Miami 16 36 .308  GB 11 112 17 112 18 22 23  L10 8-2 4-6 3-7 2-8 3-7 5-5  Streak Lost 1 Won 2 Lost 2 Lost 2 Won 1 Won 1  Home 23-4 18-7 11-17 15-9 12-14 11-15  Away 16-9 9-17 11-14 7·23 5-21 5-21  Coni 23-9 19-12 13-19 14·19 10-20 9-24  BASEBALL American Laagua BOSTON RED SOX-Extended the contract ol Lou Gorman, general manager. through 1994. Agreed to terms with Denny Wailing. lnlielder· ouffielder, on a minor league contract. TORONTO BLUE JAY8-Agreed to terms with Bob McDonald and Frank Wills, p~chers; William Suero, Infielder; Randy Knorr. catcher. and Mark Whnen. outfielder, on one-year contracts.  
Ad1111a Dlvilion x-Boston 36 19 x-Montreal 32 24 Hartford 28 27 Buffalo 22 25 Quebec 12 39 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlviaion  8 7 6 14 11  80 71 62 58 35  236 215 180 210 172  206 197 198 211 274  21-7-3 19-11-2 16-12-3 11-11-9 6-18-7  15-12-5 13-13-5 12-15-3 11-14-5 6-21-4  15-7-3 12-10-4 9-10-3 6-10-6 6-11-6  Central Dlvlalon Chicago 37 Detrort 37 Milwaukee 33 Atlanta 28 Indiana 23 Cleveland 19 Charlotte 15  14 17 21 24 28 34 36  .725 .685 .611 .538 .451 .358 .294  11r.! 5112 9112 14 19 22  8-2 6-4 6-4 4-6 6-4 5-5 2-8  Won Won Lost Lost Won Won Lost  7 2 1 1 4 1 3  21-3 23-4 23-4 19-8 17·8 13-15 11-16  16-11 14-13 10-17 a-18 8-20 6-19 4-20  24-7 25-9 21·12 17-18 14-17 12·20 ~24  National Laagua HOUSTON ASTR08-Agreed to terrTil w~h Eric Anthony. ouffielder. on a one-year contract. SAN DIEGO PADRE8-Agreed to terms with Tony Gwynn. on a three-year contract extension through 1995. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms with Jason Grimsley and Amallo Carreno. phchers. and Rod Booker, Infielder. on one-year contracts.  
w L x-St. Louis 37 17 x-Chlcago 37 20 O.Crolt 26 30 Mlnn.ota 21 32 Toronto 17 39 Smythe Dlvlaion Los A~ 34 20 Calgary 33 21 Edmonton 29 29 Winnipeg 22 31 Vancouver 21 36 x-cNnched playoff berth Thuraday'a Gamea N.Y. Rangers 4. Philadelphia 4 Pinsburgh 11, Toronto 4 Chicago 4, Boston 1 St. Louis 7, N.Y. Islanders 2 CaiRary 6, Vancouver 4  T 7 5 7 10 6 7 7 3 11 7  Pta 8l 79 5(1 52 40 75 73 61 55 49  GF GA Home Away DIY 242 193 19-6-5 18-11-2 14-7-2 205 162 20-7-3 17-13-2 14-8-2 217 233 21-11-0 5-1a-7 11-12-3 200 216 13-14-4 8-18-6 7-13-3 181 259 11-20-2 6-18-4 7-15-2 255 195 19-8-4 15-12-3 11-7-4 255 194 18-7-2 15-14-5 12-8-3 208 204 17·11·1 12-18-2 10-11-2 213 223 14·13-5 8-18-6 8~ 193 251 12-14-4 9-22-3 7-18-1 Saturday'a Gamaa Buffalo at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Philade~hla at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Quebec at Calgaty. a:a5 p.m. Toronto at Montreal. 8:05p.m. Detroh al Vancouver. 8:05p.m. Chicago at Minnesota. 8:35p.m.  WESTERN CONFERENCE Mid-at Dlvialon w L Pet San Antonio 33 16 .673 Utah 34 17 .667 Houston 30 23 .586 Oanas 20 31 .392 Minnesota 17 34 .333 Orlando 15 36 .294 Denver 14 37 .275 Pacific Dlvlaion Portland 43 10 .811 LA L.akers 39 13 .750 Phoenix 34 17 .667 Golden State 29 22 .569 Seattle 24 27 .471 LA Clippers 16 35 .314 Sacramento 15 35 .300  GB 5 14 17 19 20 31/2 8 13 18 26 26112  L10 4-6 7-3 7-3 5-5 3-7 5-5 3-7 7-3 8-2 7-3 5-5 5-5 2-8 3-7  Straak Lost 3 Won 2 Won 1 Lost 2 Lost 1 Lost 3 Lost 7 Won 2 Won 3 Won 2 Won 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Lost 3  Home 20-6 24-4 20-6 13-13 12-12 13-14 11-14 27-2 22-5 20-4 18-6 15-7 12-12 14-11  Away 13-10 10-13 10-15 7-18 5-22 2-22 3-23 16-8 17-8 14-13 11-16 9-20 4-23 1-24  Coni 22-11 24-9 17·16 12-21 12-25 11·22 6-25 26-8 25-9 22-11 18-15 11-16 12-19 10-21  BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Piaced Sam Perkins. forward, on the injured list. HO~KEY Canada Cup TEAM CANADA-Named Mike Keenan coach and general manager. TEAM USA-Named Craig Patrick and Bob Puftord oo-managers. SOCCER Major Soccer League KANSAS CITY COMETS-Announced the retirement ol Tom Kain, defender. Signed Tony Glavin and Kevin Koetters. midlielders. and Scott Ga~her, forward; assigned Koetters and Gaither to the developmental roster.  
Frlday'a Gamea Pittsburgh a1 New Jersey. 7:45p.m. N.Y. Rangers al Washington. 8:05p.m. Loe Angeles at Winnipeg. 8:35p.m. Detroh at Edrronton, 9:35p.m. NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL EAST Duquesne 88, Rutgers 80 Fairleigh Dickinson 88, Long Island U. 85 Hofstra 72. Cant. Connecticut St. 4!1 lona 72, Fairfield 88 ManhaltanvMie 81. Kings Point 51 Marls! 84, St. Francis, NY 80 Md.·Bahimore County n. Drexel 73 Penn St. 71, St. Joseph's 87 Point Park 67, Ge.-a 86 Rebert Morris 90. Mount St. Mary's, Md. 86 Salisbury St. 98, Lincoln, Pa. 62 St. Francia, Pa. 86, Monmouth, N.J. 63 Tftllllle 80, MassachUMtts 70 SOUTH Alice Lloyd 110. Llndaey Wilson 103 Alk.-Utle Rock 96, SarriOid 80 Athens St. 91. Ai&.-Hun18Yille 76 Austin Peay 122, MNiigan 96 Bellaven 88, Xavier, NO 87 Ballarmine 90, lndianapob 63 B...a& 62, Cu!Tberland, Tenn. 80 Centenary 94. Stetson 87 Charleeton Southern 69, Lberty 67 Clinch Valtity n. TUSQJium 76, OT ~St. 1011. Md.·E. Shola87 Florida St. 76, M91Tllhis St. 84 Francis Marion 57, Coker 36 J..,..,. Madiaon 62, VMI67 Johnson C. Smith 100, Elizabeth C«y St. 80 Lout.iana Tach 113, Lamar 83 N. Kantuc::ky 70, Kentucky St. 65 NaiW OriMna n. car.. Florida 65 Old Dominion 73. South Florida 61 S.C.·AIIen 76, Banadlct 611 South Ailbama 100, W. Kentudly 91 Tal~ 87, MontaYIIllo 62  Boston at St. Louis. 8:35 p.m. Sunday'a Gamea ~Jersey al N.Y. Rangers, 1:35 p.m. Plltsburgh at Washington. 1:35 p.m. Los Angeles at Winnipeg. 3:35p.m. Hartford at Buffalo, 7:05p.m. N.Y. Islanders a1 Philadephia. 7:05p.m. Quebec at Edmonton, 8:05p.m. St. Louis at Chicago. 8:35 p.m. MIDWEST Bradley 87, lllnoil St. 83 Carthage 87, Nonh Central 74 Creighton 69, Orll<e 83 Cuiwr-Stockton 88, Missouri Val. 71 DaytOn 116. Butler 98 Eureka 91, Mac Murray 80 Evansville 58. Marquette 55 Graceland 103, Mid-Am Nazarene 102, OT Grand Valtity St. 95, Saginaw Val. St. 68 Iowa 80. Indiana 79. OT Judaon 115, Moody Bible 80 Lllke Erie 114, Bethany,W.Va. 103 Lake Superior St. 81, Northwd, Mich. 69 Lindenwood 108, Hannbai-LaGrange 99 Michigan 65, Wisconsin 62 Minn.-Morrie 91. Winona St. 73 Oral Roberta 911. Rockhurst n S. Indiana 81, Lewis 75 sw Baptist 122. Mo. Sot.chern n Spring Arbor 71, Grand Rapids Baptist 68 51. Louie 98, Loyola. II. 83 Tarkio 113, Balcer 94 FAR WEST Arizona 100, Callornia 63 Arizona St. 75, Stnord 57 Derlwr 96, Metro St. 84, OT E. Montana 76. Seattle Pacfic 62 E. Washington 82. Mon1ana St. 74 Gonzaga 95, San F rancieco 72 Hawaii 84, San Diego St. 79. OT Loyola Marymount 104, San Diego 102 ~Mexico St. 83, IJ1llh St. 75 Peppardina n, Santa Clara 68 Pornona-Pitzer 92, Whittier 79 Regis 117, Colo.-Colo. Springs 55 Southern Cal 85, Oregon St. 75 UCLA 100. Oregon 83  Thuraday'a Gamea Saturday'a Gamea Seattle 120, New York 101 Philade~hla at New Jersey. 7:30p.m. Miam 104. Washington 90 ~ Yofl< at Washington. 7:30p.m. LA Lakers 106, DallaS 92 DallaS at A~anta. 8 p.m. Houston 92, Milwaukee 90 Charlotte at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Portland 122, Denver 111 Clevaiand at Milwaukee. 9 p.m. Golden State a1 Oenv«. 9:30 p.m. Frlday'a Gamea Phoenix at Seattle, 10 p.m. ~Jersey vs. Boston at HartfOid. 7:30p.m. Detroit at Charlotte. 7:30 p.m. Sunday'• Gamea indiana at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Boeton at Indiana. 1 p.m. Philadelphia at Miami. 7:30 p.m. LA Lakers at Detroit, 3:30p.m. LA L.akers at Atlanta. 8 p.m. Houston at Minnaeota. 6 p.m. Orlando at Minnesota. 8 p.m. New Yofl< at Miami, 7:30p.m. Sacramento at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Sacramento al Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Lhah at Golden State. 10:30 p.m. Denver at LA Clippers, 9 p.m. San Antonio at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. San Antonio at Portland. 10 p.m. Phoenix a1 Portland, 10:30 p.m. Lhah a! Sealtle, 10 p.m. HOW THE AP MEN'S TOP 25 FARED How the Associated Presa' Top 25 teams fared Thursday: t. UNLV (24-0) beat Pacific U 80-59. Next: vs. UC Irvine. Saturday. 2. Ohio State (23-1) did not play. Next vs. Minnesota. Saturday. 3. Arkansas (26-2) did not play. Next: at Texas A&M: Saturday. 4. Indiana (22-4) lost to Iowa 80-79, OT. Next: vs. Mich1gan. Sunday. 5. Syracuse (23-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 22 Pittsburgh, Sunday. 6. North Carolina (20-4) did not play. Next: vs. Clemson, Saturday. 7. Duke (23-5) did not play. Next: at No.9 Arizona. Sunday. B. Kansas (19-5) did not play. Next: vs. Ot<iahoma, Saturday. 9. Arizona (21-5) beat Cai~ornia 100-83. Next: vs. No..7 Duke, Sunday. 1o. Utah (25-2) beat Colorado State 67-56. Next: at Bngham Young. Saturday. March 3. 11. Southam Mississippi (20-4) did not play. Next: at Florida State, Tuesday. 12. Kentucky (1~6) did not play. Next: at Florida. Saturday. 13. East Teni18SS88 State (24-3) did not play. Next: at Marshall, Saturday. 14. Nebraska (22-5) did not play. Next: vs. Kansas State. Saturday. 15. New Mexico State (20-3) beat Lhah State 83·75. Next: at San Jose State. Saturday. 16. Oklahoma State (19-5) did not pi'IY· Next: vs. Colorado, Sunday. 17. UCLA (19-7) beat Oregon 100-8:1. Next: vs. Oregon State. Saturday. 18. St. John's (18-6) did not play. Next: vs. Notre Dame, Saturday. 19. LSU (18-7) did not play. Next: vs. Tennessee. Saturday. 20. Virginia (19-8) did not play. Next: at North Carolina State. Saturday. 21. Mississippi State (18-6) did not play. Next: at Alabama. Saturday. 22. Pittsburgh (19-8) did not play. Next: at No.5 Syracuse, Sunday. 23. Princeton (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. Columbia. Friday. 24. Seton Hall (17-7) did not play. Next vs. Villanova. Saturday. 25. Georgetown (15-9) did not play. Next: vs. Connecticut. Saturday.  COLLEGE CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSN.­Suspended Ron Mason. Michl{lan State coach. and Red Berenson, Michigan coach, lor one game aher their teams -re Involved In a brawl during a game laSt weekend. ARMY-Promoted Greg Gregory, offensive coordinator, to assistant head football coach. Named Denny Doornbos defensive coordinator and Ed Warinner defensive line coach. BALL STATE-Named Eric Campbell running bad<s coach. NORTHEASTERN-Named Mike Borlch wide receiveno coach. AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams fared Thursday: 1 . Virginia (25-1) did not play. 2. Penn State (23-1) did not play. 3. Georgia (23-2) did not play. 4. Tennessee (22-4) beat Memphis State 93-46. 5. Auburn (23-3) did not play. 6. Purdue (21-2) did not play. 7. North Carolina State (22-4) did not play. 8. Westem Kentucky (23·1) did not play. 9. Arkansas (22-3) did not play. 10. Washington (19-3) did not play. 11. Stanford (20-4) beat Arizona State 1 09-61. 12. LSU (20-6) did not play. 13. Rutgers (21-3) beat St. Bonaventure 73-70. 14. Connecticut (22-3) did not play. 15. Texas (17-6) did not play. 16. Mississippi (19-8) did not play. 17. UNLV (22-5) beat UC Irvine 78-57. 16. Northwestern (17-6) did not play. 19. Providallf08 (21-4) did not play. 20. S. F. Austin (21-3) beat N. Texas 89-56. 21 . Iowa ( 15-7) did not play. 22. Notre Dame (1a-5) did not play. 23. Long Beach State (17-7) did not play. 24. Clemson (17-8) did not play. 25. Oklahoma State (22-4) did not play.  

Grace, Cavanaugh to meet in IH hoops final 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
If you are looking for excite­ment and action, go watch the interhall basketball finals on Sunday in the Joyce Center. 
The first semifinal matched Grace against Morrissey, with Grace earning a 53-48 win. 
This game was a spectator's dream. Grace had Demetrius DuBose and Bryant King and Morrissey had Derek Johnson and Dorsey Levens. 
The game plan for Grace was to work the ball inside to DuBose. After drawing the de­fense of Morrissey in, he would look to dish the ball outside for the shot. 
Morrissey presented a differ­ent look. Morrissey coach Ed Larkin wanted to spread the scoring around but could not forget about Levens-who fin­ished with 25 points,-and Johnson. 
The two teams traded bas­kets for most of the first half. It was not until the final two minutes of the half that Grace first took control, taking a 28­24 halftime lead. 
The second half presented the fans with more of the same action. 
"Demetrius was the key tonight. He was able to control the game," said Larkin. "We 

lacked intensity. We started all 
our games slow, but in this 
game we could never turn it 
on." 

"This was a great game," said Grace coach Mark Sloan. "Our passing was excellent and we were shooting well." 
The second semifinal put 
Cavanaugh up against Flanner. 
Cavanaugh was able to earn a 
51-41 win. 
"It was a good game," said Ray Griggs. "Both teams played aggressively." 
Both teams presented very similar game plans, wanting to spread the scoring around. 
Cavanaugh wanted to make sure that Griggs made an im­pact and stayed out of foul trouble. 
Flanner was without their best player, Zak Nagle, who was out with a sprained ankle. Flanner missed his rebounding on both ends of the court. 
Cavanaugh was down 8-2 early when coach Rob Gerbery called a key timeout. After the timeout, the game was all Cavanaugh. They finished the first half with a 26-17 lead. 
The scoring was balanced for both teams at the half. Griggs led Cavanaugh with seven points. followed by Pete Tulchinsky and Tim Quenan 
see SEMIS page 15 

NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball owners clinched "victory" in salary arbitration on Thursday despite left-bander Paul Gib­son's win over the Detroit Tigers. 
At the same time, San Diego outfielder Tony Gwynn agreed to a three-year, $12.25 million contract extension that makes him the 40th $3 million-a-year player and the third-best paid in the game. 
The owners have a 9-6 lead with only two arbitration cases left unsettled. But they consider salary arbitration an overall loss because almost all players get big raises even if decisions go against them. 
Gibson was awarded $565,000 by arbitrator Stephen Goldberg instead of the team's offer of $350,000. Gibson made $150,000 last season, when he was 5-4 with a 3.05 ERA in 61 relief appearances. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
personalities off the court make them very special people to me. 
"It's going to be a sad day on Saturday for me, too. We've grown to be so close, and I think that after four years, you don't always feel that way, but with them, it's been a great ex­perience all four years." 
But first, there is the task at hand,. making the NCAA 
Douglas Road Closing Douglas Rd., between Juniper Rd. and U.S. 33, will be closed to thru traffic February 26-28, 1991. This is necessitated by preliminary construction work for the new campus laundry building, which is to be located northwest of the credit union. 
Douglas Rd., from U.S. 33, should be utilized to .reach University Village, St. Joseph Hall, Holy Cross House, and Moreau Seminary. 
Douglas Rd., from Juniper Rd., should be utilized to access the credit union, warehouse, and support services building. 
Should you need further information contact N.D. Security/Police at 239-5053 or 239-5555. 
ATTENTION SENIORS 
Gwynn signs $4 million extension 
Right-hander Frank Wills and the Toronto Blue Jays, who were scheduled for a hearing Thursday in Chicago, settled early in the day on a one-year contract for $435,000, a raise of $192,500. 
· Third baseman Jack Howell and California had a hearing Thursday before arbitrator Anthony Sinicropi, and second baseman Jose Lind and Pittsburgh are scheduled for a hearing Friday before arbitra­tor Raymond Goetz. 
Free agent Denny Walling agreed with Boston on a minor­league contract, leaving 27 of the 96 free agents still un­signed. And in a front-office deal, Boston extended general manager Lou Gorman's con­tract two years through 1994. 
Gwynn, only seventh on the Padres' payroll last season, will have an average salary of $4,083,333 under the exten-
Tournament. And to do so. the Irish must win Saturday against Old Dominion. Notre Dame cannot afford to lose any more games if it hopes to earn its first-ever bid. 
"I would hope we get a bid in the tournament," Davis said. "It would be real disappointing if it didn't come through. It would be like working four years for nothing if we didn't get one." 
The Monarchs (3-18) have fallen upon hard times this sea­son. They were 21-10 in 1989­90-including a 63-62 victory 

........
"""" 


COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
EUROPE 1992: A Kaleidoscope of Perspectives 
FRIDAY, FEB. 22 2:30P.M. Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
SAVE CIP 
CALL AND WISH HIM A !H!A!PIPV $3ff!Plir!HJ/DJAVRRi x4330 

COME OUT AND SUPPORT 


(f 
KAREN R08tNSON

KRISS! DAVIS SARA UE8SCHER 
IN THEIR FINAL HOME GAME and HELP SET A RECORD CROWD !! 
# 22 NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S BASKETBALL vs. 
OLD DOMINION 

~ 
Saturday, February 23, 1991 Joyce Athlt!'tic & Convocation Center 
2:00 pm 
TH[ FIGHTING .IRISH 

FOR THE RECORD On thrir four !'cars 1987 -)991): 
* Overall Record 82 -30 * MCC Conference Champions (1988·1989, 1989-1990) 
• .634 Winning Percentage • 1990·91 MCC Regular Season Champions 
* Plan to land their first NCAA Tournament Bid in Program's History !! 
sion, which begins in 1993. He is the 40th player with a $3 million-a-year contract and trails only Roger Clemens ($5,380,250) and Jose Canseco ($4. 7 million) on the salary chart. Darryl Strawberry is fourth at $4.05 million. 
"I feel like $4 million is prob­ably above what I think I'm worth," Gwynn said. "Four million is a nice round figure that two years from now I hon­estly feel like I can live with. I'm very content. ... For a while, it's nice to see other guys trying to get where you are." 
The extension includes a $1 million signing bonus. Gwynn's current deal is a $4,325,000, two-year contract. 
"I think it's really a good day for all of us, the fans of San Diego, for Tony and for the ball club as well," said San Diego general manager Joe Mcilvaine. 
over the Irish last season-and 
participated in the NCAA 
Tourney. 

Three players average in double figures for Old Dominion. 5-11 forward Celeste Hill (13.9 points per game, 8.2 rebounds per game) has made a quick adjustment from the • high school to the college game, and she is joined by senior Jackie Kenney (13.4 ppg, 4.5 rpg) and sophomore Stephanie Gilmore (4.4 ppg, 5.0 rpg) to form a formidable front line. . The Monarchs are also profi­cient from the three-point stripe, hitting 43.4 percent (106-for-244) as a team for the year. Seniors T.J. Jones (11. 7 ppg, 42.2%) and Lee Etta Cummings (9.1 ppg, 45.0%) and junior Kim Aston (46.7%) all are deadly from the outside. 
"They've got good three-point shooters, are very athletic and play good defense," McGraw said. "They're similar to Indiana in that they have good athletes but not a lot of size. 
"We're worrying about our­selves. That's what has been successful most of the time this year. We can't really get too concerned with what they're going to do. We just have to play our game." 
And forget, just for a mo­ment, the significance of the game. For as McGraw said, "There's going to be a lot of teary eyes on Saturday." 
-----------------~--~--~-----~------------~------------­


The Observer Friday, February 22, 1991 
AP Photo 
Leafs fall 

Toronto's goalie Jeff Reese (shown here against St. Louis) did plenty of sprawling in last night's game against the Pittsburgh Penguins. The Penguins blasted the Maple Leafs 11-4. 


Kristen Maneri ­Rare that your 19! Have a TOTALLY 
Happy Birthday We love you! Maureen, Tricia . 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 


We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social functions, team sports and much, much more. If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270  -featuring ­ 
1-Bedrooms from $285  + Planned Activities Program  
2-Bedrooms from $345  + Beautiful Clubhouse & Pool  
+ Air Cond~ioning  + Cable TV Available  
272-1880  + Disposal + Laundry Rooms • Basketball Court  
• Picnic Tables &Grills  
Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7,  + Volleyball Court • Gazebo  
Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4  • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service  


I • 

Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze. . . the easy and economical way to keep your apartment through the summer and still go home. 
fUCKORlJ ~ VlLLAYE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison Road 
$15 


NO APPLICATION FEE! 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. 
15 Exp/ntS 911191 

THE CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES The Franciscan Wav of Holiness Fr. Regis Duffy, a Franciscan friar is a member of the Notre Dame theology faculty. He has published three books.Francis of Assisi remains a radical Next year, Harper Collins will publish his Pew book, The American Emmaus.figure whose interpretation of the Fr. Duffy has taught on high school andGospel life and our use of the college levels, worked in campus ministry and done parish work. He was a teamenvironment can still unsettle our member of an experimental parish, St. Severin in the Latin Quarter of Paris.small worlds. Fr. Duffy has taught at Washington Sunday, February 24th, 7:00 -8:30 p.m. , Theological Union, Princeton TheologicalKeenan-Stanford Chapel Seminary, Boston College, University Sponsored by Campus Ministry of San Francisco and Loyola of Chicago. For further information call Sister Mary Curran, esc, He holds seven academic degrees.239-5242  

Robert Morris' season ends as suit thrown out of court 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Robert Morris College's lawsuit against 

' the NCAA was overturned Thursday by a county judge who upheld the school's ban from postseason play, beginning with next week's Northeast Conference tournament. Robert Morris is believed to be the first school to seek a court order allowing it to play in the 64-team NCAA tourna­ment. Following a daylong hearing, Allegheny County Commons Pleas Judge John L. Musmanno ruled the college didn't prove its punishment for rules violations was too harsh compared to recent penalties imposed on Nevada-Las Vegas, Illinois and Missouri. "It's over, and we'll survive," athletic director Robert McBee 
said. "But this is a disappoint­ment." 
"It's frustrating and disap­pointing," said school president Edward Nicholson, who said an appeal was unlikely. 
Coach Jarrett Durham, who contends the NCAA treats mar­quee-name teams such as UNLV differently than smaller schools that don't deliver big TV ratings, declined to comment. 
Robert Morris was barred from the 1991 NCAA tourna­ment last May after an internal investigation disclosed a trustee helped pay a student loan obtained by senior guard Andre Boyd. Former athletic director Robert Miller assisted in arranging the loan. 
Boyd, a Proposition 48 casu­alty, paid his own way to school as a freshman to preserve his 

AP Photo It's that time of year again, as pitchers and catchers reported yesterday to spring training camos in Arizona and Florida. 
four years of eligibility. When he fell behind on payments, a college trustee who had cosigned the loan, Dr. William Amos Jr., made three payments of $355 each in violation of NCAA rules. 
Robert Morris also was placed on two years' probation, was banned from live TV this season and was stripped of two scholarships in 1991-92. The school must return $88,145 in 1990 NCAA tournament rev­enue. 
The NCAA infractions com­mittee ruled the violations were major because Robert Morris gained substantial competitive advantages by allowing Boyd to play. Boyd initially was barred from playing this season, but was reinstated after the college argued he wasn't aware he had broken any rules. 
Following the NCAA ruling, 
the Northeast Conference also 
barred the Colonials from its 
postseason tournament. 
Robert Morris didn't initially appeal the NCAA decision, cit­ing the high costs and unlikely prospect of winning a reversal. But the school changed its mind after the NCAA reversed a rul­ing that barred UNLV from de­fending its national champi­onship. 
· Musmanno's decision means· 
Robert Morris (16-11) ended its 
season with Thursday night's 
regular-season game at Mount 
St. Mary's. Most of the 
Colonials' players attended the 
court session before leaving for ·the game. "This is going to have an im­pact on our recruiting and our 
program ... it (an NCAA viola­tion) always does," Nicholson said. "We're trying to upgrade our program, and this is a set­back." 
Unlike schools that committed major violations uncovered only after NCAA-initiated inves­tigations, Robert Morris drew major sanctions despite con­ducting its own probe and turning itself in, McBee said. 
"We did things the right way, and look what happened," he said. "I think that sends the worst kind of message." 
David Berst, the NCAA's en­forcement director, said the threat of legal action by mem­ber schools won't discourage the NCAA from trying to main­tain clean programs. 
Pitchers, catchers report to camps 
(AP)-Baseball returned Thursday as Eric Davis, Bobby Bonilla and plenty of pitchers and catchers started spring training on schedule. Even Steve Howe was there, but Bo was a no go and Jim Palmer was a maybe so. 
Skies were sunny in Florida and Arizona as 15 teams opened for business with just a minor hitch or two. Gone were the dark clouds that kept camps closed last year because of a 32-day lockout. 
"There seems to be a lot of anxious anxiety to get going," New York Mets manager Bud Harrelson said in Port St. Lucie, Fla., where about 100 fans watched David Cone, Mackey Sasser and some others run through the outfield. 
Officially, only pitchers and catchers were supposed to show up Thursday, and then just to check in. But rather than merely report, the march of the millionaires began when a lot of players, batteries included, broke out the bats and balls. 
Davis Rob 
Come Watch Irish Ho_ops on 5 
TVs 


•Nightly Specials 
• Dart Tournaments 
Fri +Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 
':;-----~· ~ ~ 

r~y All you can eat 2 -topping pizza for only $6 a person 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:3D-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 
Dibble, and Tom Browning were among more than a dozen regulars from the World Series champion Cincinnati Reds on the fields in Plant City, Fla. Manager Lou Piniella met with his coaches in anticipation of Friday's first formal workout. 
Davis, recovering from a kid­ney injury in Game 4 of the sweep over Oakland and off­season knee surgery, will take it slow for awhile. So will Bo Jackson. 
The Kansas City Royals put their star outfielder on crutches for four weeks after discovering that a hip injury he sustained in the NFL playoffs is more serious than originally thought. 
"It's not just the usual pulled muscle," Royals trainer Nick Swartz said Thursday. "He's not in the mild-injury category." 
Jackson is to report to the Royals' camp in Haines City, Fla., along with the position players. He will undergo ther­apy and do exercises, but is likely to miss the first part of the exhibition schedule. 
"He was rett upbeat, not 
real down," Royals manager John Wathan said after a tele­phone conversation with Jackson. "I guess disappointed is the right word." 
There were a few other glitches, too. 
The Minnesota Twins, who moved their training site from Orlando to Fort Myers, Fla., this year, aren't quite ready to move in yet. The major-league clubhouse and batting cages at the Lee County Sports Complex are not finished, so all players will be crammed into the mi­nor-league headquarters for about 10 days. Newly acquired Jack Morris, Kirby Puckett and Kent Hrbek were among the Twins at the new location on Thursday. 
At the New York Yankees' camp in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where last year's lockout re­sulted in a "No Trespassing" sign being posted above the players' locker room entrance, pitcher Pascual Perez was ab­sent. The reason: that catch-all cause, visa problems. 
Smmner 
JI01&Dg 
m Will you be "''Orking, doing an internship, or enjuy"'.ng a summer in ~· York! You can live in the heart ci Green"'·ich Village as an
New 
NYU Aslociate or take acourse in bur exciting summer sessions ifyou.l'·i.sb.•
Yolk 
• 
Minutes from New York·~ business and cultural centers 

• 
Apartment-style and traditional residences;


City 
single aDd double ocrupaney 
• Outstanding sports-recreation bcility 
• Includes the New York Experience, au enjoyable noncredit program exploring careers and culture in Ne"'· York City 
• Over 1,000 undergraduate, graduate, and 

at 
~I 
rourses 1&-ed 

New
day and ewning 

York 

University
BoubaC DliWIIe 11aJ 19-AIICut to 
For more inbmatioll 
:if~~on, 
l-800-282-4NYU Ext. 840 

ll!ll....,....... 
14-A ~ool'tacr Nrw Yort. N.Y 100)3 
' 
' 
\, 
r page 20 
\ Trail Blazers cruise to 
~ 
t 122-111 win at Denver 
DENVER (AP) -Kevin

t: 
Duckworth had 25 points and 

! ~ 
14 rebounds as the Portland

\ 
Trail Blazers defeated Denver 122-111 Thursday night for the Nuggets' seventh consecutive loss. 

I 
\ It was the fourth victory of the season for the Trail Blazers over the Nuggets, the first series sweep ever for Portland over Denver. 
Clyde Drexler had 19 points and eight assists for the Trail 
Blazers, who halted a three­game road losing streak and improved their overall record to 43-10. The Pacific Division leaders made only 43 percent of their 107 shots, but Portland's defense kept Denver at bay. 
Orlando Woolridge led the Nuggets with 20 points and 13 rebound. Michael Adams, back in uniform after missing five games with a pulled hamstring, was 4-for 14 from the field and scored 12 points. 13 under his average. 
Lakers 106, Mavericks 92 
DALLAS (AP) -Magic Johnson had 21 points, 12 as­sists and 10 rebounds as the

~ 
Lakers avenged two earlier

\ 
losses to Dallas. 

I 
It was Johnson's ninth triple­double this season and 132nd of his career. He had 18 points, 10 rebounds and 17 assists against Houston on Tuesday night. 
Los Angeles held Dallas to a club record-low output in building a 52-29 halftime lead. · Dallas' previous low was 31 

! 
t 
against Houston in 1981. Rockets 92, Bucks 90 HOUSTON (AP) -Otis Thorpe had 28 points and 19 rebounds 
and Vernon Maxwell scored the 
l 
game-winning basket with 40 seconds to play as Houston ended Milwaukee's three~game winning streak. 
Thorpe scored four straight 


BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Iowa rallied from a 16-point deficit in the second half and beat No. 4 Indiana 80-79 in overtime Thursday night on James Moses' tip-in at the buzzer. 
Indiana, which missed six straight free throws that could have won the game in regula­tion, took a 77-7 4 lead on two free throws by Matt Nover and three straight by Calbert Cheaney with 2 minutes left in the overtime. 
But Iowa's Troy Skinner hit four foul shots to give the Hawkeyes the lead with under a minute to go, and Cheaney, who finished with 26 points, hit two more free throws for the last Indiana lead with 30 seconds left. 
After an Iowa timeout with 8 seconds to go, Acie Earl missed one shot and Chris Street missed another on the rebound before Moses' winning tip. 
Indiana (22-4, 10-3 in the Big Ten). led 50-34 6 minutes into the second half before the Hawkeyes (18-8, 7 -7) rallied behind Val Barnes and Earl, who finished with 19 points each. 
No.9 Arizona 100, California 63 

TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) -Khalid Reeves hit five of Arizona's nine 3-pointers and the ninth-ranked Wildcats' balanced scoring smothered California 100-63 Thursday night to tighten their Pacific-tO Conference lead. 
Reeves, a reserve freshman guard, and Brian Williams each had 19 points while Matt Muehlebach and Ed Stokes scored 13 apiece as Arizona (21-5, 10-3) made the Golden Bears (11-13, 7-8) their 60th consecutive victim at McKale Center, the nation's longest current home winning streak. 
The Wildcats' defense and height advantage overpowered Cal as Arizona repaid the Bears for an 85-78 loss last month at Berkeley. 
Arizona jumped to a 49-30 halftime lead and put the game away with a 12-2 run at the start of the second half, fueled by two jams, a layup and a jumper by Williams. 

THE AD ROC OFF.CAMPUS COMMITTEE 
FOR QUALITY OF LIFE INVITES 
ALL ftUOEHTS M..·· OVIN.G
...······· ..

ow-cAMPUs Ji Jt)9J.•t99a to an 
OFF-CAMPUS FORUM 
11~ N. St. Peter Street ~pm 
Sponsored by Student Government and Campus Ministry 
Transportation available from Main c-~rcle at 2:45pm. 
GUITARS-AMPS MON-FRI.121JONOON-6pmCAllforSAT.houl!l CRATE -ALVAREZ -YAMAHA 
WESTONE -TAYLOR I 272-7510 I 
DICK WISNER -OWNER 

! J 
J 
TANNING 
ready and stock up for Spring 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC.. STATE RD 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND. IN 


baskets early in the fourth quarter and the Rockets held an 89-83 lead with 4:28 to play before the Bucks scored four straight baskets, aided by three Rockets turnovers, for a 90-89 lead with 1:29 remaining. 
Maxwell's layup off a fast break gave Houston a 91-90 lead. Jack Sikma missed the Bucks' final shot with one sec­ond remaining. 
SuperSonics 120, Knicks 101 

NEW YORK (AP) -Shawn Kemp scored 24 points and shredded New York's defense with seven dunks as the Seattle SuperSonics continued the Knicks' homecourt woes with a 120-101 victory Thursday night. 
The Sonics, who never trailed, snapped a three-game losing streak despite playing without leading scorer Derrick McKey, out with an injury, and newly acquired center Benoit Benjamin. 
The loss dropped New York's record at Madison Square Garden to 11-17. the worst in the NBA. 
Seattle's Ricky Pierce led all scorers with 26 points, 14 in the fourth quarter. Mark Jackson had 20 points and Patrick Ewing 19 points and 15 rebounds for the Knicks. 
Heat 104, Bullets 90 

LANDOVER, Md. (AP) ­Miami won its second road game in 1991 and fifth of the season as Glen Rice scored 27 points to lead the Heat past Washington. 
Rice scored 12 points in the third quarter to give the Heat the lead, then scored seven in the final 5:08 to help Miami hold off the Bullets' comeback. 
Seikaly scored 24 points and Sherman Douglas had 20 for the Heat, who are 5-21 on the road. 

4#UI. ll4d ~· 
-LESSONS 241 DIXIE WAY N-US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north ol ) ( 
St. Mary's College Roseland 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

•THE 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S TENNIS TEAM fell to Stanford 5-2 in the second round of the USTNITCA National Intercollegiate Indoor Team Championships. Sixth-seed David DiLucia defeated Alex O'Brien 4-6, 7-6 (7 -5), 6-3 and Andy Zurcher beat Virna! Patel 3-6, 7-5, 7-5 to account for the Irish points. Notre Dame faces TCU in the consolation round today .. 

•TWO 
I.Y.H.L. MINIMITE TEAMS will be featured in an exhibition hockey game between periods one and two of tonight's Notre Dame hockey game vs. Air Force. The Notre Dame game is scheduled to begin at 7:30p.m. 

•TIMERS 
NEEDED for the MCC Swimming Championships today from 11-2 or 7-9 and Saturday from 10-1 or 6-9. Call Matt or Franco at 239-7042. 

•BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held Sunday, Feb. 24 from 12-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shag. A $5 entry fee is required. 

•WOMEN'S 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held in early March, separately from the sign-ups for Bookstore this Sunday. Players can participate in both tournaments but must sign-up for each. Also, anyone interested in being a commissioners-contact Diane at x1093. 

•MEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL: tonight at 8 p.m., Notre Dame will take on arch-rival Michigan State. This match promises to be one of the best the Irish will host all season. Come out for great volleyball action in the JACC pit. Admission is free! 

•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE will have practice on Sunday from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Bring a blank check for jackets. Questions? Call Cathy at 284-4456. 


f DiveInto Our 
{ .•......·~~·· 
*Fried Clam 
Dinner 
Tender clams fried golden brown. Served with rice or potato.· 
Fisberman's Platter 
Shrimp, stuffed crab, fish fillet and clams. 
I 
J 
{/A
/.J/,:0 ·""\)>r-?· /

Served with rice or potato. /~.~I 
f Starting At '24-Pieee s..rlo.,Diuer I
•$4 99* 

Lightly breaded fried sh/1mp l
Served w1th nee or potato. 
• q.~o'J \ ~\~ 
/----~ ~~~ /'~'\
Shrimp t ,,l vJ ~~<9-(~-· ~', 
CoJDb() \ '~~l(,~·ltt )J b~~ '-('
A generous serving\_·~ .) ' )\ /! (.u;. I 
of fried, charbroiled and""-... scampi-style shrimp Served with rice or potato 
.SHONEYS 
Seafood Festival
l ® 
t,_________.._ ------------­
"'~~ // Every dinner includes 1 
s!tmns:tr 
i ' 
~~'":;;:..""'r!r II""""'~ 

Swimmers ahead of MCC pack 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Editor 
Day One of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Swim­ming and Diving Championship saw seven meet records broken, including four by Evansville, but Notre Dame took an early lead. 
The Irish men tallied 290 points over second place Evansville (179). St. Louis, Xavier, Butler, and Loyola, while the Notre Dame women scored 324 points, well ahead of St. Louis (189), Evansville, 
Rocket 
continued from page 24 
around a bad team overnight, Mendes said Ismail remains "an option" for the Patriots. who have the top pick in the draft. 
"If you look around the league at successful teams," he said, "you win with Cadillacs. And this guy I would certainly put in that class." 
Ismail called the workout "pretty good" but reminded re­porters that his exclusive status at the workout does not 
, 
• 

Butler and Xavier. 
Senior co-captain Brian Rini edged out freshman Kevin Flanagan in the 500 freestyle and improved his own meet record by over two seconds, 
4:40.10. Divers Sean Hyer and Jenny Kipp both won the 1-me­ter diving events. 
The Evansville women claimed the 200 freestyle relay and K. Watson, Tricia Berger and Jennifer DeDoming set three meet records in the 500 freestyle, 50 free and 200 indi-


C~ . ~1 ROFFLER PHONE (219) 233-4957 SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
. 

ROCCO'S STYl[ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS -PERMANENTS -COLOR 
is currently accepting applications for the paid positions of 
Asst. Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit a one-page personal statement to John O'Brien at The Observer by 5 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 24 or call John at 239-5303. 
• • • ALUMNI 
-SENIOR 

vidual medley. 
St. Louis' Jennifer Chase swam to victory in the 400 medley relay and touched out the Notre Dame women. St. Louis also set a meet record in the same relay, 4:07.64. The other meet record was set by Butler's Paul Newsom in the 50 freestyle, :21.52. 
MCC preliminary and finals competition continues at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Friday (11 
a.m. and 7 p.m.) and Saturday (10 a.m. and 6 p.m.). 
gional track meet in which he ran the 55-meter dash in a school-record 6.07 seconds, qualifying for next month's NCAA meet. 
His speed should overcome any size or strength deficiencies in the minds of many NFL scouts, who saw no reason to watch him work out in the weight room. 
"Not many people are going to hit him," Pittsburgh Steelers special teams coach and former Notre Dame assistant George Stewart said. "His speed is out­standing. I'd put him in the neighborhood with Bo Jackson." 
Scouts from the Chicago Bears, Cincinnati Bengals, Kansas City Chiefs, Atlanta Falcons, Detroit Lions, Green Bay Packers, Washington Redskins, Miami Dolphins, Los Angeles Raiders, New York Jets, Cleveland Browns and Dallas Cowboys also attended the workout. 

THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Joins 'With the 
Obsener 

in hoping for the quick and 
safe retwn of 

our friends and 
loved ones in 
the Persian Gulf. 
necessarily translate into his being the No. 1 pick. "There are a lot of other people out there," he said. 
The Patriots, who finished 1­15 last season, have not said whether they plan to select Ismail or trade down in the draft. 
"We're still busy assessing opportunities and the avenues we have and want to take the one that's best for the team," Mendes said. 
Ismail missed the NFL scout­ing combine earlier this month in Indianapolis because it con­flicted with the Central Collegiate Championships, a re­
~!:CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN 
LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
.___________________________________________.
MARCH I, 1991 
.-----------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------~ 
l" page 22 The Observer Friday, February 22, 1991 
h 
Irish finish up home slate with 
) 
two games against Falcons 
By RICH KURZ down-to-the-wire games," "It's time for a grand finish. Sports Writer Zadra said. We're four games from hanging Notre Dame coach Ric our skates up until October. It The Notre Dame hockey team Schafer also expects two more would be nice to finish strong,"
(15-13-1) hosts its last two hard-fought games this week­said Schafer. 
home games of the season end. Zadra said, "We're hitting our 
tonight and tomorrow night at "It's another matchup with peak."
7:30 p.m., against a foe who is two even teams," he said. "I'd NOTES-This weekend will quite familiar to the Irish. This like to change that." mark the final home appear­weekend will mark the third 
Zadra-tied with David ances for Irish seniors Chris 
and fourth times the Irish play Bankoske and Mike Curry for Olson and John Ghia, the only
the Air Force Falcons (7-13) 

the team lead in goals with two seniors on the Notre Dame this season. 19-thinks the Irish are primed roster . . . Notre Dame has be­
And if the games at the Joyce to break loose against the gun talking to the CCHA about ACC, where the Irish have won Falcons, wins that could prove possibly joining the conference. 13 times in 15 games, are any­to be extremely important. The discussions are currently in where close to the games the "We're definitely focused for an "exploratory stage," accord­two teams played in Colorado both Friday and Saturday ing to Schafer ... Junior center Springs three weeks ago, then night's games. We want to come David Bankoske needs only one Notre Dame hockey fans are in in and win big," he said. "We're assist to tie former Irish All­for a treat. still in contention for the American Greg Meredith for 
The Irish split the two games (NCAA) tournament. These are 1Oth place on the career assists 
with the Falcons, coming back big games." list for Notre Dame ... After to win Saturday's game behind The Irish power play, which this weekend's games, the Irish the stellar goaltending of Greg has been on a roll lately, could travel to Anchorage, Alaska to Louder who stopped 38 of 39 play a significant role in a tight participate in the Jeep/Eagleshots to ensure a 4-1 win for game like this series should be. Independent Hockey Tourna­the Irish. The previous night, "It's been really efficient. It ment March 9-10. Alaska­
Air Force scored two goals in just keeps improving," said Anchorage, Alaska-Fairbanks 
the final 10 minutes of play to 

Zadra. and Alabama-Huntsville also pull out a 7-6 victory. Both Zadra and Schafer think are entered in the tourneyJunior left wing Lou Zadra the Irish are ready to step up which will go a long way to de­thinks these games will be as their level of play another notch termining the lone independent 
The Observer/Scott McCann 

exciting as those at Air Force. going into the home stretch of representative to the NCAA 
Right wing Sterling Black and the rest of the Notre Dame hockey team
"(The Falcons) are quick, and the season. playoffs. 
face off against Air Force tonight and Saturday at 7:30p.m in the JACC. 
they check a lot. They should be 

Wrestlers drop season finale to Hoosiers, 21--18 
By DAVE DIETEMAN  been plagued by injury since  Dave Nieradka at 126 pounds  in the driver's seat, riding a 13­ ferent meet," observed McCann.  
Sports Writer  Notre Dame's 51-0 setback at  (16-9) as Notre Dame seized a  7 advantage, Irish senior Mark  "It would have been a 10-point  
Iowa, came from behind to stun  6-0 lead in team points.  Gerardi (19-5 and ranked No.  difference because of the four  
The  Notre  Dame  (4-8-1)  the Hoosier's Chris Russo (19-7­ Sophomore Kyle Cadman (3­ 12  at  167  pounds),  also  points we lost at 177 and the six  
wrestling team wrapped up its  1),  6-4,  in  the  118-pound  13), however, fell to Indiana's  wrestling for the last time in the  we  would  have  got  from  
regular season last night with a  match.  Lou Silverman (14-11) at 134  friendly confines of the JACC,  McGrew's pin.  
21-18 home loss to Indiana (5­ Russo took Jensen down with  pounds, and Jamie Boyd (13­ won a 9-6 decision  over Chris  "Reidy was wrestling with a  
8).  :13 gone in the first period.  12) suffered a major decision to  Yengo (11-11) to pull Notre  sprained ankle and he  was  
The loss, however, does not  Jensen escaped and Russo took  Jeff Lyons (sixth-ranked at 142  Dame to within one point in the  outweighed. He came up to me  
I  close the book on this year's Irish squad, who are preparing for next weekend's NCAA Western Regional meet. "It's been a tough year," said Notre Dame coach Fran  him down again as Russo jumped out to a 4-1 lead after one period. Jensen opened the third pe­riod with an escape and was quickly awarded a bonus point  pounds) as the Irish quickly fell behind 7-6. The match see-sawed from that point on, as senior Todd Layton (14-9), appearing in the last home match of his career,  team scoring. Jamie Reidy (0-1), a 165­pound recent addition to the Notre Dame roster, volunteered to compete against 5-15 Steve Hiner of Indiana in the 177­ and said he wanted to wrestle, so I let him. He was really con­cerned about trying to win this meet." Steve King (16-7 -4) registered a thunderous pin at 190 pounds  
McCann. "Tonight was the same  for Russo's stalling penalty.  handily dispatched of Adam  pound match. Reidy's heroics  to put the Irish back on top, 18­ 
old thing-we've lost six meets  Behind 4-3, Jensen rallied to  Caldwell (21-12-1), 6-0, before  came after J .J. McGrew (177)  17, going into the heavyweight 
this year where the difference  take Russo down with :09 left in  Hoosier Casey Graham stunned  injured his shoulder and Billy  match, where Tom Salvino (1­ 
was  one  match.  With  our  the match. The final margin of  Notre Dame's Emil Soehnlen (9­ Hunter (177) hurt his knee, de­ 5), a junior heavyweight from  
schedule, that's just the way it  victory, thanks to  over one  15-1) with a pin at 158 pounds.  pleting the Irish depth chart.  Chicago,  fell  10-2  to  Vito  
goes.  minute of riding time, was 6-4.  With the Hoosiers apparently  "With McGrew, this is a dif- Maurici (17 -15-1).  
"I thought we wrestled well.  "Jensen is still hurting," noted  
We've got the NCAA Regionals  McCann. "He showed a lot of  
next week, and we feel good. All the kids wrestled for seven minutes tonight, and I'm really pleased with that."  courage and a lot of heart in coming back. It was good for him because it will help his confidence before the Regional  $$$  MONEY  $$$  


The Irish started the night on meet." the right foot, as freshman Marcus Gowens (21-7) led Chris Jensen (12-14), who has 
throughout his 4-3 victory over 

l I
J 
We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
You'll have all summer 

• 
Deferred Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 



~ NOTREDAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 

Separate from th"e Universit 

Friday, February 22, 1991 page 23
The Observer 
• 

LECTURES 
CROSSWORD 

4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloqium, "Holomorphic Mappings of Submanifolds in Complex Space," M. Salah Baouendi, professor, University of California, San Diego. Room 226, Math Building. 
CAMPUS 
Friday 
5:15p.m. Mass for Peace. Sacred Heart Church. 
7:15 and 9:45p.m. Film, "Mo' Better Blues." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
8 p.m. Play, "While the Lights Were Out," Produced by Cavanaugh Hall Players. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Student Activities and Hall President Council. 
8 p.m. Film, "Ghost." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by SUB. 
Saturday 
7:15 and 9:45p.m. Film, "Mo' Better Blues." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
8 p.m. Play, "While the Lights Were Out," Produced by Cavanaugh Hall Players. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Student Activities and Hall President Council. 
8 p.m. Film, "Ghost." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by SUB. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Fried Fish Boats 
Broiled Haddock 
Fried Bread Cheese Pizza 
Tri-Color Shells with Marinara Sauce 
ACROSS 33 Telemachus, to 58 Ancient Odysseus Thracians1 Peel 
34 Feat Sf "Leave--­
sOver 
35 Ratite bird that!"
9Chunk 
36 Door rails, to 60 Public
13 Off balance 
architects disturbance 
14 Root or Yale 
39 Mythical 61 Beatie Starr 
15 Prong 
mischief-maker 62 Dotted, in 
16 Former chess 
40 Bowery heraldry

master Richard 
character 63 Sweet potatoes 42 Valise 64Armhole
17 Surgical beam 18 Assess 43 Styx ferryman 65 Musical syllables
19 Nonlizard 45 Ancient core of lacrimation Constantinople 22 Play the guitar 47 Three-handed 23 Spread out, as card game DOWN troops 48 Pinna 
1 Rene's 

24 Stadium yells so ---Island 
recreation areas
26 Merit 54 Non lizard fruit 
2 On the qui vive 
30 Western capital 57 Ice sheet 
3 Copter part 
4Gourmet 
s Tartans 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Usher's milieu 7Collie 8 Nonreptilian 


sweater 9 Wandered 

27 Aft 28 Presidential e.g. 
rejection 29 First place 

11 Julian Huxley book 30Chops 12 Spelling contest 31 Vent 14 Yore, of yore 32 Kind of moth 20 Muscat dweller 33 Droop 21 Lover of 
37 Of element #46 Cephalus 38Acute 41 Fluffy fare food 44 Nonbeliever 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 


FRIDRV RND SRTURORV 8 RNO I O:JO PM $2 
CUSHING RUO/TOR/UM 
"OK, ma'am -It's dead. In the future, however, It's always a good Idea to check your shoe each time you and the kids return home." 

461nlet: Ger. 47 Kind of bath 49Muscle 
weakness 51 Western 52lonesco 
product 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ft each minute). 
• 
JAY HOSLER 
53--Park, Colo. 54 Ending for Saturn ssAppear 
indistinctly 56 Rita's bailiwick 57 Saute 



S UDENT UNION BOARD 
----~~----~­
----------~~--------------­

By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
Saturday is the last home game for seniors Karen Robinson, Krissi Davis, Sara Liebscher and manager Mike .j Caputo as the Notre Dame women's basketball team faces
~. 
l, Old Dominion at 2 p.m. 
'.\,. 
And as the senior members of this year's women's basketball program recalled their most memorable experiences, one in particular came to their 

t \ respective minds. It was on their West Coast swing this year. The team was 
l :~ 
sightseeing in San Francisco the day before the Stanford game., and it stopped to look at the Golden Gate Bridge at an ) overlook. Stairs led down to the beach, and several players ran 
~ 
! 
down to play in the water. Let ~ Liebscher describe the rest: "I'm kneeling down to take my socks and shoes off, and I \ see this guy walking towards 
l 
Sports 
page 24 

Women to face Old Dominion 
Seniors reminisce with last home game this Saturday 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Boxing for Bangladeshi Missions, participants in the 61st annual Bengal Bouts will begin fighting this weekend at the Joyce ACC. 
Bengal Bouts, founded by Dominick Napolitano, have been fought since the 1930s, and have become something of a legend in the South Bend area, and are an essential piece of Notre Dame tradition. Now organized by the Boxing Club, the event raises thousands of dollars each year for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 

I 

it Among the field of 82 boxers, six champions return to Bengal Bouts. Though the number of fighters is down from last year's total of 102, Boxing Club President Mike Trainor sees an improvement in the boxers' level of skill. 
il 
"There is a lot of quality in the fighters this year," said 
Trainor. "We just don't have the 
numbers, which makes for a good tournament." 

J 
! 
me, so I look up, and then I do a double-take. Here comes this guy, naked. walking straight at me . . . I start looking around, and every single person on this beach is naked, and not only that, but they're all males. It was a nude gay beach." 
Experiences like these have helped breed deep bonds be­tween these diverse personali­ties. 
"Looking back, it's amazing to think that I didn't know those two until I got here, and in three-and-a-half years, we've become real close friends," Davis said. "Those two will be my closest friends from now to forever." 
"The people I've met through basketball have opened up so many doors for me," Liebscher said. "I've made so many friendships that it's an experi­ence I've never regretted." 
Among the achievements they are most proud of, building the program to the level it has reached ranks high. 


"We've had lots of ups and downs, but we've still been suc­cessful," Robinson said. "We've seen the program turn around since I've been here, and from here on it's only going to get better and better." 
"We've definitely made some big strides since our freshman year," Liebscher said. "I'd like people to think of us as a hard­working group, one that over­came a lot of adversity through our four years to get as far as we did." 
This is the first group of se­niors which played all four years under Coach Muffet McGraw, A smile broke out on her face when she reflected on their time together. 
"With this group, it's going to be particularly hard to see them go," McGraw said. "The program has grown so much because of them, and just their 
see WOMEN/ page 17 

Irish look to upset No. 18 Redmen 
By KEN TYSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's bas­
ketball team will try to pick up 
right where it left off in 
Wednesday's 80-77 overtime 
victory over DePaul in 
Saturday's 8 p.m. matchup ver­
sus No. 18 St. John's in Madison 
Square Garden. 
The Irish (11-16) finally came through with a gutty perfor­mance down the stretch against the Blue Demons, and will look to do so again when they meet Coach Lou Carnesecca's Redmen. St. John's (18-6) had lost four of six before Wednesday's 77-72 win over Syracuse at the Garden. 
The big gun for the Redmen will be forward Malik Sealy, who averages 22.9 points and 
7.5 rebounds per game and is a genuine threat to score inside and outside. 
"St. John's is obviously going to the NCAA Tournament," Irish coach Digger Phelps said. "Malik Sealy can just take the 

6 boxers defend titles in Bengal Bouts 
The 170-pound weight class will undoubtedly be one of the most exciting, led by Trainor, the defending champion. Two more experienced fighters have transferred to Notre Dame, and each will challenge Trainor for his title. 
Scott Mulcahy, a transfer from West Point, boxed in the NCAA tournament last year, and reached the regional level. A transfer from Chicago, Lou Hall, is another surprise. Having boxed for two years, Hall also could threaten Trainor's title. 
"(My weight class) will defi­nitely be interesting," said Trainor. "There are some really good boxers." 
Kerry Wate returns as cham­pion in the 165-pound class. Wate won titles in both his freshman and sophomore years, and will look to three-peat as a junior. 
However, another Trainor will be trying to stop Wate's string of titles. Returning from a year off from Bengal Bouts, Mike Trainor's twin brother Tim will compete in the 165-pound class. Tim was kept out of last year's action by a separated shoulder. 

Other returning champions include Jody Armetta, a junior 150-pounder, Kevin Max, a 185­pound senior, Jim Hawkins, at 165, and John Manfredy, a senior competing at 140 pounds. 
The money donated to Bangladesh is very important to the mission's very survival. 
"They need the money badly," Trainor said. "When we send it to them, they have usually spent almost all of it." 
Bengal Bouts will begin Sunday afternoon next to the ice rink at the J.A.C.C. at 12:30. Approximately 20 fights will occur that afternoon, and an equal n~mber will be fought Sunday mght beginning at 7:30. 
On Wednesday, February 20, semifinal bouts will be fought at 
7:30 p.m .• and the finals of Bengal Bouts will occur March 1 at 8:00. 
Friday, February 22, 199~ 


game over; it seems that every team ~e play has somebody like that." 
Sealy's fellow teammates provide adequate support. Point guard Jason Buchanan (12.1 ppg, 5.5 apg) is a proven playmaker and scorer. Center Robert Werdann (10.8 ppg, 7.2 rpg) can get the job done inside, and Billy Singleton and Shawnelle Scott do an adequate job playing their roles in the Redmen offense. 
"They have balance with those four-Buchanan, Wer­dann, Singleton and Scott," Phelps said. 
The Irish, meanwhile, will continue to look for the Texas Express duo of Elm.er Bennett and Daimon Sweet to do most of their scoring. Bennett, a 6-1 guard, scored 21 points before fouling out against the Blue Demons and averages 14.7 ppg. Sweet, meanwhile, is the team's leading scorer at 15.9 ppg. He scored a career-high 26 against DePaul. 
"When Bennett fouled out, 

Daimon Sweet just stepped up and did the things we needed, as did (Keith) Tower," Phelps said. "Our kids were just determined to win that one." 
Senior Tim Singleton, who is second on the all-time Notre Dame assist list, is expected to start at point guard, while leading rebounder Tower (7.3 ppg, 6.5 rpg) will begin the game at center. Senior Kevin Ellery (11.2 ppg) rounds out the starting lineup. 
NOTES-This weekend's game will be Notre Dame's 2,000th game...The Notre Dame-St. John's matchup will be preceded by a 6 p.m. battle between Dayton and Fordham.. .Phelps will be reunited with the 1970-71 Fordham team which he coached to the East Regional semifinals in his first and only season with the Rams. Phelps's old squad will be recognized at halftime of the Dayton­Fordham game...The Irish are 41-17 in Madison Square Garden, and are 14-3 in the Garden since 197 4. 
Rocket impresses NFL scouts during workout 
By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
Professional scouts from 15 National Football League teams turned out to watch Raghib Ismail's private work­out Thursday afternoon at the Loftus Center to see for them­selves what the rest of the country has been talking about since early fall. 
The "Rocket" can run. 
Ismail. who is projected as the possible No. 1 pick in April's NFL draft, ran a 40­yard dash which was hand­timed by the scouts somewhere between 4.25 and 
4.3 seconds, did a 20-yard shuttle run, executed a vertical jump of 33 1/2 inches and caught passes from Pittsburgh Steelers receivers coach Dwayne Painter during a 30-minute closed workout. 
"He has the excellent speed, athletic ability and all the per­sonality traits that you're look­ing for in a first pick," said Joe Mendes, the New England Patriots' personnel director. "He certainly didn't do anything to hinder his chances of being the first pick." 

Ismail dropped two passes during the workout and a third bounced off his hands, but scouts agreed that his receiving skills are more than adequate for the NFL. 
"I wouldn't say there was even a concern about his hands," Mendes said. "It's just a matter of wanting to see it several times." 
Said Indianapolis Colts offensive coordinator Leon Burtnett, "He looked great, just like they said. We just wanted to see it for ourselves." 
Despite wide speculation that Ismail is not the type of player capable of turning 
see ROCKET I page 21 




