
~~.]&~t 
1142·1992 


server .g~. 
Sl SQUICI NT! NNIAL 


Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 53 

Welcome to DART 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1991 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

A&L hiring freeze lifted; Positions can be filled 
The Observer/John Rock 
Senior Jason Rosemurgy flips through his DART book in the Administration building yesterday as he registers for classes. Although seniors are finishing their final DART session, juniors and sophomores are preparing for their turn in the next couple of weeks. 
Hditor's note: Recent budgetary problems within the College ofArts and Letters have caused concern about course offerings for the spring semester. As students begin the DART registration process, The Observer will spend the week examining the effects of the budget situation in several departments within the College. 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame philosophy department will not cut any classes or faculty positions due to the "budgetary glitch" in the College of Arts and Letters, according to Gary Gutting, chairman. 

Gutting said he believes that the current crisis in the college is a result of underfunding. "There is no reason to think that money is not being spent properly," he said. 
The philosophy department has no open spots right now, so the temporary hiring freeze had no effect, Gutting said. 
The problem which faces Gutting's department is that there are not enough tenured faculty to properly teach the students. "The ideal would be to 
Stolen 'hang tag' permits pose problem for Security 

By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
A number of University park­ing permits have been stolen from the vehicles of Notre Damn faculty and staff mem­bers, aecording to ND Security. 
Phillip Johnson, assistant di­reetor of security in charge of parking operations, says a total of 2R "hang tag" permits have been stolen from faculty and staff so far this semester. 
A "hang tag" is a parking permit that is hung on the rear view mirror of a vehicle. Hang tags are issued by the Univer­sity to faculty and staff who do not wish to use windshield parking decals. These tags are not available to students. 
Although windshield decals are more difficult to steal, Johnson said hang tags are preferred by drivers who "find it too difficult to remove the decals" at the end of a semester. liang tags also pro­vide flexibility for permit hold­ers who have two or more cars, since a tag can be switched from car to car. 

Johnson said many of the stolen hang tags are used by non-permit holders who wish to park on-campus. In response, Security officers have been sweeping University parking lots in search of stolen hang tags. 
One student and one staff member have had stolen hang tags discovered in their cars this semester. No criminal charges have been filed against either person, but Johnson said their cases are being "handled through University administra­tive channels." 
Chuck Hurley, also an assis­tant director of Security, sug­gested that some stolen hang tags may be being sold as sou­venirs of Notre Dame. "If you printed Notre Dame on toilet paper, people would buy it," Hurley said. 
Johnson said the best way to prevent hang tag theft is to have tag holders keep their car doors locked at all times. 
; 


By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
The temporary hiring freeze in the College of Arts and Letters has been lifted and departments can begin to fill positions for the 1992-93 academic year, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Budget analysis has shown O'Meara that the $425,000 "glitch" which caused the concern can be recovered. By lifting the freeze, O'Meara has given department chairs within the college th"e green light to continue hiring searches for positions this year and next. 
"My general outlook is positive" O'Meara said of the budget situation and future spending. "I think we have a healthy situation given the economy of the country." 
Allocations to the college for 1992-93 will be larger to get the budget "normalized," he said. But since stabilizing the budget next year is the ~top priority," new projects and faculty additions may be put on hold. 
The budget process for the 1992-93 academic year started Monday and will continue through January. O'Meara stressed that no cutbacks are being made or will be made for the coming year. 
While he could not speculate how much additional money would be allocated to the college, O'Meara said that "a lot more thought" will have to be given to funding areas like the sophomore Core program and the Freshman Writing program. Both programs offer courses typically taught by adjunct professors not specifically funded by the budget. 
The hiring freeze for 1992-93 was actually one of two implemented this year, O'Meara said. The earlier freeze targeted hiring for this academic year was lifted two weeks ago, he said. 



Philosophy department faces problem of underfunding 
• THEO/ page 3 
• COTH and AMST/ page 3 
have all our courses taught by tenured faculty and in small sections of 25 (students) or less," he said. 
At present, Gutting said, only 14 percent of the classes in the philosophy department meet this standard. One-third of the classes offered in the department are taught by adjunct professors and graduate students, he said. "I don't find that satisfactory at all," Gutting said. 
However, Gutting believes the problem lies with the administration's lack of funding. "There is not enough money appropriated to the basic things we need to do," he said. 
The administration is worried about deficits in the Arts and Letters budget, according to Gutting. "The administration's response {to the problem) so far has been to solve it by taking away new positions," he said. 
With this approach to the budget, the administration is trying to "solve the new 
problem by taking away the solution to the old one," he said. 
Gutting emphasized that this problem in the budget does not have any immediate short terms effects. ~It's a longer­term situation, but it's all the more serious," he said. 
The philosophy department currently has 34 professors and 200 majors, according to Gutting. This number of majors is slightly lower than in the past, but Gutting said this is due to the new department requirement that everyone with a first major in philosophy write a thesis. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Artistic expression 
Colleen O'Rourke, an art major, explains her half. man, half woman torso sculpture to Mary Cosgrove at the Saint Mary's underclass portfolio review yesterday. 
-------~ 


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Will AIDS fall to backburner like other issues? 
My mom called me last Thursday afternoon to give me the news that Magic Johnson was retiring because he has AIDS. 

I mumbled something into the phone like, "Yeah, right," and went back to Rene Ferran sleep, convinced that she Associate Sports had fallen prey to yet an-__..;;E;.;:;d;;..:ito.:;;r;,...__ 

other office rumor. 

But this was no joke. 1\vo hours later, at an emotional press conference, Earvin "Magic" Johnson announced to the world that he had contracted the HIV virus and was retiring from the NBA. 
Immediately, the public turned and reex­amined its view of the deadly disease. News programs were devoted to explaining AIDS and its effects. The first AIDS CableThon, held in California, raised over $1 million, and organizers credited the response to public awareness of Magic's ordeal. 
My only problem is, where was all the at­tention before Magic's sudden revelation? AIDS has been recognized for several years now as one of the biggest health problems the U.S.-and the world-has faced in its history, but until last Thursday, how much money would have been raised by the CableThon? 
And what will happen a month or two now, when Magic's press conference is "old news" and the public eye is turned elsewhere? 
Consider the Gulf War. In January, whose eyes weren't glued to the television set, taking in every bit of information-the SCUDs landing in Israel, the bombs landing in Baghdad? And when U.N. forces invaded Kuwait and Iraq, public attention was riveted to the Middle East. 
Ten months later, though, Desert Storm stories barely make the back pages of the newspapers, while the fundamental questions in the region-the Palestinian situation, Lebanon, what to do with Saddam now that the war is over-remain to be answered. 
Closer to home, what about SUFR? Last spring, the issue of minority rights on campus was spotlighted by the group's efforts. People may not have agreed with its tactics, but SUFR raised valid points about the status of minorities at Notre Dame. 
But now, without the public attention that SUFR brought to the situation, the issue of minority rights has been placed on the proverbial backburner. Should it be there? Have the issues SUFR raised been dealt with adequately? Does anyone really care? 
American public opinion is notoriously shortsighted, able to focus in on only one problerp. at a time-and a short time at that-before turning towards the next "issue of the day." 
Hopefully, Magic's plight will focus public awareness enough on the AIDS epidemic that it cannot fade back into the woodworks, that it will receive the attention it deserves. 
But more likely, people will acknowledge the problem with a "Yeah, right," and then go right back to sleep. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production 
Meredith McCullough Kristin Lynch Alicia Reale Lisa Bourdon Lab Tech. Sports 
David Lee Jennifer Marten Accent Graphics Gerry Hamilton Brendan Regan Paige Smoron Viewpoint Patrick Moran Guy Loranger Ad Design Brian Stalter Lisa Gunsorek Systems Maria Blohm Mike Murphy 
Patrjck Barth 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
PrfiSSUra 

HL ~~rn ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
:·.. ·· ,•:
:·· ·:·· ·::: : :·· 
• 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Kurdish agreement may end embargo 
• NICOSIA, Cyprus -The Kurdish nationalists will withdraw guerrillas from several northern Iraqi cities in an agreement aimed at ending Baghdad's blockade of food and supplies to the area. But a Kurdish rebel spokesman in London reported continued fighting, saying that Iraqi tanks and artillery killed at least 12 people in an attack on a village Tuesday. The assault Sunday and Monday on Kani Lan, about 30 miles from the Turkish border, could not be independently confirmed. It was the most severe attack on Kurds in Iraq since attacks in October that left scores dead. Since March, when Iraq was driven from Kuwait in the Persian Gulf War, the Kurds have been waging a separatist rebellion that involves phases of fighting, fleeing, and negotiations with Saddam Hussein's regime on autonomy for the Kurdish people. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Any students interested in volunteering at the soup kitchen at the United Methodist Church in South Bend should call Bea Moore at 233-2307 or 277-9463. The first number provided in yesterday's article was incorrect. 

• 
Resume writing will be the topic of "Effective Resume Writing Workshop." How to write a powerful resume which accurately depicts your strengths and your qualifications will be discussed. The importance of focus­ing your resume will be demonstrated today at 3:30 p.m. in the Foster Room, LaFortune. 

• 
Arts and Letters Business Society presents Patrick McBride, vice-president/National Sales of Schwarz Paper Company, who will be discussing the advantage of a liberal arts education in the business world from 6:30­


8:30 p.m. today in the Foster Room, LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/November 12 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 

A
245,150,460 219.00 v 1.93 S&P COMPOSITE 396.74 ft 3.62 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,054.11 i} 11.85 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD{t $ 0.50 to $356.70/oz. 
SILVERft 2.8¢ to $4.038oz. 


FOR!CAIT: 
Decreasing 
cloudiness and much warmer 
today. Highs in the middle 50s. Partly 
cloudy and warm 
Thursday. Highs in 
the lower 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L AIhans 88 52 Atlanta 80 36 Berlin 45 41 Boston 40 35 Chicago 36 32 DaHas-Ft.Worth 81 40 Denver 50 32 jl~
::
Detro. 51 34 Honolulu 85 72 Houston 70 41 lndlanapolla 58 32 London 52 311 Los AnoNa 83 61 Mlani BNch 74 58 NewOrlunl 84 34 New York 44 39 Parll 54 39 Phllade_,hla 48 36 Rome 81 40 St. Loula 39 36
C01991 Accu-Wealher,lnc. 
San Franclaco 77 52 Sealtllt 60 54 South Bend 45 33 

Tokyo 61 
52 Wahlngton, D.C. 48 37
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
.•:
·:· .:··:::. ::=::.· 
NATIONAL 
Senate okWcs Socjal Security break 
• 
The Multicultural Executive Council is sponsoring three forums to discuss the issue of multi-culturalism. The forums, which are part of a pilot program, will take place at Lyons, Planner and Stanford Halls at tonight at 7 p.m. 

• 
Any sophomores interested in being on the Sophomore JPW Committee come to the Sorin Room in LaFortune at 8 p.m. If unable to make meeting, call Ber­nadette for information or questions at 283-3885. 

• 
Students interested in applying for a Newcombe Dissertation Year Fellowship are encouraged to attend a meeting on Thursday, Nov. 14 at 3:30 p.m., in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. Dr. Nathan Hatch, vice­president of Graduate Studies and Research, will discuss strategies for maximizing chances for winning one of these $12,000 fellowships. Call Michael Hamilton at 283­8347 for more information. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: Benjamin Franklin wrote a letter to a friend in which he said, "In this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes." 

•In 
1940: The Walt Disney movie "Fantasia" had its world premiere at New York's Broadway Theater. In 1942: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed a measure lowering the minimum draft age from 21 to 18. 

•In 
1956: The U.S. Supreme Court struck down laws calling for racial segregation on public buses. 

• 
In 1971 : Notre Dame held the Midwest Blues Festival. 

•In 
1986: President Reagan publicly acknowledged that the 


U.S. had sent "defensive weapons and spare parts" to Iran in an attempt to improve relations, but denied that the shipments were part of a deal aimed at freeing hostages in Lebanon. 

..-----------~-------------------------------------------------------~--~ ----­
vveanesday, November 13, 1991 
Cunningham optimistic about theology dept. 
By LAUREN AQUINO Assistant News Editor 
Despite the budget situation in the College of Arts and Let­ters, the theology department is optimistic about improving its curriculum and offerings in order to more efficiently serve the public, according to Lawrence Cunningham, chair. 
The theology department is looking to fill four new positions next year, one senior position and three junior positions, Cunningham said. This is in addition to the 42 faculty members currently serving in the department. 
Cunningham said that the number of student majors in the department has remained about the same since last spring, following an approxi­mately 60 percent increase in the last three y1lars. The total number of majors and non-ma­jors enrolled in theology classes is usually very high due in some part to the University theology requirements, he said. 
The department needs more resources tb better serve its students, according to Cun­ningham. With more resources, class sizes could be kept to a minimum by increasing its fac­ulty. 
The problems facing the the­ology department, however, have "occurred before the bud­get squeeze," according to Cun­ningham. The College of Arts and Letters "has grown enor­mously" in the past few years, he said. Thus, the number of faculty resources to accommo­date the students needs time to adjust. 
Cunningham said he is sym­pathetic to this problem and has arranged his goals to en­hance what he feels to be "one of the best departments in the English speaking world." 
Majors are usually able to take the 400-level classes of their choice, according to Cun­ningham, although some of the University-wide 200-level courses close due to student demand. 
Because of the complexities of the department, Cunningham said he is faced with the prob­lem of creating a balance that will satisfy every program within the department. 
For instance, some of the programs include an M.A. pro­gram, an M. Div. program, and a PhD. program. But commit­ments to these programs does not lessen the department's concerns with the undergradu­ate department, said Cunning­ham. "Every teacher teaches across the curriculum," he added. 
ave a tree, RECYCLE! 

Co-Ree Teams-2 Men & 2 Women Open To All Undergrads & Grads Takes Place At The Stadium Range Enter Gate 14 
Tuesday, November 19 4:30-6:00 PM W November 20 4:00 -6:00 PM 

This tunnel, connecting the power plant to North Quad, is one of 
many underground .passages that carries steam for heating to vari­
ous buildings across campus. 
~;====::~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~.
S'"']"flliT()A"'tVNc 
.1'1. .I'CL .IYL./1..J.V J 
OOLL'£1:.'£ 
':1 JfP'£ r 17fflft]J 
...l\; .L-v"1--X; 
~QI:.~Yl!Jv{
':1 
page 3 
COTH,AMST react to A&L crisis 
By JULIE BARRETI News Writer 
The financial crisis in the College of Arts and Letters has affected teacher morale more than anything else, according to Mark Pilkington, chairman of the department of communi­cation and theatre {COTH). 
"Teachers were so optimistic about the continued growth of the faculty and departments in the past several years, that the frnancial problem scared them and made them a little pes­simistic for the future," Pilking­ton said. 
The same number of courses originally scheduled for the spring semester will be offered with the same number of pro­fessors planned to teach them. "Not one dollar has been cut from the budget" allotted to the COTH department, he said. 
The main problem the de­partment is handling is a rapid increase in the number of communication and theatre majors, Pilkington said. 
"In the past three years there has been a 300 percent increase in the number of majors," Pilkington said. 
There are currently 125 ma­jors and 12 full-time faculty members in the department. 
American Studies 
The smaller size of the Amer­ican studies department may have protected it from the ad­verse effects of the budget situ­ation in the College of Arts and Letters, according to Robert Schmuhl, chairman. 
Schmuhl said he has received no calls to cut back spending in the department and the de­partment will ofFer the same number of courses as antici­pated in the spring. 
"If there were to be cuts in 
department spending, they would most likely be in the larger departments," he said. "The smaller departments, like American studies, are much more cohesive and, therefore, less likely to be affected." 
There are 81 majors regis­tered in the department and six full-time faculty members. Two professors are on leave for the year and their empty positions have been filled without finan­cial difficulty by visiting profes­sors April and Robert Schultz. 



page 4 The Observer 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
All in a day's work 

Ed Keve, assistant director of the Notre Dame power plant, inspects one of the plant's many boilers yesterday being especially careful to use a welding lens to protect his eyes from the bright flames. 
---~-------­
Wednesday, November 13, 1991 

Effectiveness of condom distribution questioned 
Magic Johnson's pledge to warn kids about AIDS has drawn applause, and wariness among some that condom dis­tributions in high schools could stall the message of fighting the deadly disease with safe sexual practices. 
In Boston, Mayor Raymond Flynn said distributing condoms in public schools actually could lead to an increase in the spread of AIDS. 
"Should you put a clean nee­dle exchange in the fourth grade?" added schools Super­intendent Peter Greer of nearby Chelsea, where condom distri­bution is being considered. "We're not saying that kids shouldn't use condoms, we're saying schools shouldn't dis­tribute condoms." 
Cambridge, Falmouth and the island community of Martha's Vmeyard have approved such a policy in Massachusetts. But only a few large cities, includ­ing Chicago and San Francisco, have chosen to make condoms available in public schools or school-based clinics. By June 1992, New York City hopes to have programs in place for 260,000 students at all 116 high schools. 
But opposition in most towns that have debated the proposal has been strong. Last year, a school board in Easton, Md., narrowly rejected a plan for nurses to distribute condoms at two high schools. In Mill Valley, Calif., a lawsuit by opponents stalled distribution efforts. 
"It's being done against many parents' wishes," said Wendy Flint, president of the American Parents Association. "It's using the public schools for someone else's decision." 
Regardless of whether con­doms are distributed at schools, Americans will be seeing condom ads on television. Fox Broadcasting Co. announced Tuesday it will become the nation's first broadcast network to accept condom commercials. But paid advertising will be accepted only if condoms are promoted solely as a method for preventing transmission of AIDS. References to contraception will not be al­lowed, Fox said. 
While many city officials con­cede some teen-agers are sexu­ally active, they have balked at making condoms available to students. 


Reduce 
CLIMB MT • SOUTH BEND
Reuse 
STAI.RNASTBR CO~S'I' 

[NJ@lf[ru~ 
£ ©©© OJJ [N]lfO [fJJ ® 
-presents­

(~ PERSPECTIVE ON A CAREER IN PUBLIC ACCOUNTING" 
BY 

GARY GRLEZIEWSKI 
COOPERS & LYBRAND 
Thursdav. November 14. 7:00 P.M. Auditorium -Hayes-Healy 
Bush asks Johnson to join 
U.S. Commission on AIDS 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The "The president would like to White House said Tuesday that have Magic Johnson on the President Bush has asked Magic AIDS commission," White Johnson to deliver his "very House press secretary Marlin important message" about AIDS Fitzwater told reporters in New as a member of the National York. Commission on AIDS. 
"Magic has a very important 
That panel has been critical message that will be very useful of Bush administration policies to this commission," Fitzwater and Bush's role in the fight said before a luncheon at which against the deadly virus, which Bush raised $2 million for his already has claimed the lives of re-election campaign. more than 126,000 Americans. 
Fitzwater said Johnson was 
Bush said last Friday that he still mulling over the White regarded the 32-year-old Los House offer. But Johnson said in Angeles Lakers star as "a hero" this week's issue of Sports Illus­for the way he announced that trated that "I'd like to volunteer he was HIV-positive, was for the vacancy" on the retiring from basketball and commission. was planning to devote himself to spreading awareness about Johnson already serves on the the disease and safe-sex president's physical fitness practices. council. 
SINCE 1949 

GPat lll'lndl, Grat S.vlcl, Grllt Prlca, Rlntlll AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS Mon -Thur 11-7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm 439 S. M1chigan SPECIAUSTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS# 
Litigation •Real Estate Corporations •General Practice Estates, 1hJsts & Wills 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Dlinois 

• 
Effective employment assistance 

• 
Four-month day and eight-month evening classes 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 


A representative will be on campus November 21st 
Zip
"'"' 
"Paralegal in heavy demand" 
-WaUStreetJournal January 23,1991 
"Paralegal: Recession­
proof job" 
-GoodHousekeeping 
February 1991 
"Roosevelt led me to a challenging career." 
-Kitty Moore 
Legal Assistant 


Wednesday, November 13, 1991 The Observer pageS 
Professor highlights problems facing Gaza Strip 

DAD, PAT, COLLEEN, BRIAN, DENISE, MOM & DENA 
By JEFFREY O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Gaza Strip, with its barbed wire fences and high level of poverty, is "the world's largest ghetto," according to Professor Bairn Gordon of the University of Negev in Israel, who spoke at Notre Dame on Tuesday. 
The area, located between Is­rael and Egypt and bordering the Eastern Meditllrranean, has been occupied by Israel since it drove out the Egyptians during the 1967 Six-Day war. 
Two main reasons outsiders should be concerned about Gaza, he said, are that the reso­lution of the Gaza problem is essential for solving the larger Middle East peace problems, and the Gaza Strip is a crucial lesson in freedom. 
Two-thirds of the Palestinians in Gaza are refugees from the four Arab/Israeli wars, Gordon said, who live in shanty towns and receive assistance and food from United Nations sponsored programs. 
These conditions helped spark the intifada, which began in December 1987 in the Gaza Strip, he said. 
The leaders in the Gaza Strip subsequently transported their 


Now Open 
• Discounted Bestsellers • Special Orders • • Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • • Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • • Bonus Book Club • 
,-------------­
1  Exchange this coupon for  I  
:  25% OFF  i  
I  your next purchase at your  :  
I  Little Professor Book Center  1  
:  in South Bend  I  
1  Offer good through November 30,1991  :  
IL  •Offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, __ ~~ ~e~o~i~o~r~sc~~ __  I .J  
Ironwood Plaza North  (near the new Martin's)  
Highway 23 at Ironwood  
South Bend, IN  ~  '/1. '.· ;.. ·;  
Telephone: (219) 277-4488  
Mon.-Sat.:  10:00.9:00  
Sunday: 10:00.5:00  
®  

BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'll love. 
uprising to the West Bank. and the intifada, entering its fourth year, continues unabated, Gor­don said. 
The people in the Gaza Strip, due to United Nations programs and assistance from both Arabs and Israelis, are among the most educated refugees in the world, according to Gordon. 
They also have substantial access to the Israeli way of life, especially its democracy and market economy, he said. This gave them a window on free­dom and democracy and they therefore wanted more of both, according to Gordon. Hence, he said, the intifada set to rid themselves of Israeli tyranny. 
The problem of the Gaza Strip is complicated by the system of government there, Gordon said. The Israeli army administration consists of two groups, one of which is responsible for the civil administration of the area, the second of which is a group. of soldiers that mainly enforces curfews and discipline, he said. 
The Palestinian internal order can be broken down into three groups: the Inward, Outward and Secret leaders. The Out­ward consists of the spokesman and other Palestinians visible in the media and who carry the Palestinians' message to the rest of the world, Gordon said. 
The Inward leaders are 
lawyers, merchants and other 
"movers and shakers" who hold 
the real power and influence in 
the region, Gordon said. 
The Secret leaders are the 
heads of the various Palestinian 
Liberation Organization (PLO) 
factions which actually plan 
and carry out the intifada, he 
said. , There is no police force in the 
Gaza Strip, Gordon said, since 
all of its members resigned at 
the commencement of the in­
tifada as a measure of solidar­
ity. 

Corruption in Israel has also increased in recent years, he said. People actively struggling for their human and democratic rights, as embodied in our Declaration of Independence, form the essence of the intifada and the Palestinians' battle, according to Gordon. 
The solution to the Gaza problem is not a simple one, Gordon said, since no one re­ally wants the region. Egypt refused to take it back in the Camp David Accords and 80% of Israelis now feel they should abandon the Strip, he said. 
The refugee problem and overcrowding should be elimi­nated, Gordon said, and indus­try needs to be set up to allevi­ate the area's poverty. The Palestinians, however, will de­mand a linked Gaza/West Bank solution to the conflict, so the occupied territories will inevitably be dealt with as a whole, he said. 
It was beneficial for the Palestinians to adopt Prime Minister Shamir's plan for Palestinian autonomy. as they did at the recent Madrid con­ference, according to Gordon. The Palestinians have come to the realization that autonomy will be the first step towards independence, he said. 
The people in Gaza do not have a clear consensus on their own future except that they wish to be free from Israeli rule, Gordon said. The solution of the Gaza Strip problem will be an integral part of a resolu­tion of the larger political 

Be apart of it this year! 
We need chairpeople as well as commiHee members. 
~ 
can283c3897 
to join or for more info! 
problems of the Middle East, he said. 
Gordon, who presently teaches graduate courses at Notre Dame on Middle Eastern politics, has a Ph. D in Educa­tion from Vanderbilt University and is an education professor at the University of Negev in Beer­Sheva, Israel. He has written books on existentialism and education and also has degrees in Philosophy and Applied Mathematics. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 7 
A St. Mary's College student reported the theft of her locked bicycle from the bike rack behind the Law School. 
A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his car cover from his vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the 
A Pasquerilla East resident reported the theft of a Federal Express package from the lobby desk of her dorm. 
FRIDAY, NOV. 8 
7:45 a.m. A University employee reported vandalism to her vehicle while it was parked In the Library Circle. 
11:29 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported being struck by a suspect after the suspect was asked to leave the dorm. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 9 
1:27 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a report of a student who had smashed in a window in Sorin Hall. The suspect was found and taken to the Student Health Center for treatment of injuries he had sustained from smashing in the window. 
2:28 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee found a Notre Dame student vandalizing University property. The student was brought to his dorm and released to his rector. 
12:45 p.m. The Notre Dame Cheerleadlng Coach reported the theft of cheerleading equipment from Rockne Memorial Stadium. 
12:46 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer issued a trespass notice to two suspects soliciting sweatshirts In Blue Field. 
5:27 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Notre Dame Fire responded to a report of a possible heart attack at the Morris Inn. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
11:06 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his big blue stuffed animal, Toler, from his unlocked dorm room. 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1991 
Judge rejects drug-induced defense 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) -A judge Tuesday rejected a "Prozac defense" and convicted a woman of strangling her 61­year-old mother with a Vene­tian blind cord in what the de­fense claimed was a drug-in­duced murder. 
"This is not a Prozac case," Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge John Mcinerny said in handing down his volun­tary manslaughter verdict in the non-jury trial. "The drug Prozac played no part in the court's decision." 
Last year, a Los Angeles jury reduced murder charges to manslaughter for a woman who shot her husband after taking Prozac, a widely prescribed antidepressant that some critics say can cause violent emotional problems. 
Officials with the Indianapo­lis-based maker of the drug, Eli Lilly & Co., have said the an­tidepressant is safe, and Prozac defenses have been rejected in 11 other cases nationwide. 
Doctors, including those who testified in the San Jose case, disagree about the possible dangers of Prozac. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration in September ruled there was no need to put warning labels on the drug. 
Judge Mcinerny said the July 24, 1990, San Jose killing was a case of "provocation" because Gail Ransom claimed her mother was physically and psy­chologically abusive. As a re­sult, he said he didn't convict Ransom of the more serious second-degree murder. 


ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -One of the oldest and most widely used heart drugs significantly increased the risk of extremely sudden death in people who had survived a heart attack, a study shows. 
Researchers also found that a surprisingly high number of heart attack survivors -about one in three -later died of ex­tremely sudden heart rhythm disorders within 60 seconds. 
One million Americans survive heart attacks each year, and about 25 percent of them are treated with the drug digitalis, said Dr. Arthur Moss of the University of Rochester Medical Center. 
His study found that digitalis increased the risk of the sudden heart rhythm disorders. 
"It was a very significant risk," Moss said Tuesday at the annual meeting of the American Heart Association. 
Moss did not say that patients who use digitalis should now be taken off the drug. He said further study is needed to identify which patients faced the risk of sudden death from the drug. 
"Sudden cardiac death" is usually used to describe severe heart rhythm disorders that lead to death in less than an hour. They are most often a consequence of damage to the heart from heart attacks. 
Heart disease is the nation's leading cause of death, killing about 500,000 people a year, including 300,000 who die from sudden cardiac death. 
Makin' copies 
Digitalis has been used for 
Chris, the Chrismiester, Flanagan does some xeroxing for his psy­200 years to treat heart disor­
chology class yesterday. ders. Previous studies have 
Widely used heart drug linked to sudden death 
suggested that it could pose some risk, but this is the first to link it strongly to these ex­tremely sudden deaths, Moss said. 
The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute is now designing a study to further explore the risks and benefits of digitalis, Moss said. 
Moss's findings came from a study of 2,400 heart attack survivors, 229 of whom died over a two-year period. 
In addition to finding that digitalis was a risk, he found that the drugs called beta blockers helped prevent sudden death. 
Patients not receiving beta blockers had eight times the risk of sudden death compared to patients who were getting the drugs, Moss said. 
Moss's study is part of an ef­fort to determine which people with heart disease are most likely to die suddenly and unex­pectedly. 
"Sudden cardiac death ... kills over 300,000 patients per year in the United States, but little is being done at the national level to control and prevent this epi­demic," Moss said. 
"It is a further tragedy be­cause it is preventable to a large degree or correctable," he said. 
Sudden cardiac death also can be a problem in children, although it is less common in children than in adults. Some doctors are now considering the possible usefulness of screening programs to detect children at risk, said Dr. Arthur Garson of Texas Children's Hospital in Houston. 

THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS OF GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY LAW CENTER 
WILL BE MEETING WITH STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL 
MONDAY, NOVE~BER 18, 1991 
AT 12:30 & 1:15 
SIGN UP IN CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 

..------~ ---~-------­
Wednesday, November 13,1991 The Observer page 7 
Indonesian troops fire on protesters in .East Timor 
.JAKAHTA, Indonesia lAP) ­Indonesian troops fired on pro­independence demonstrators in East Timor on Tuesday, killing dozens of peopll~ protesting In­donesia's 15-year rule of the tiny island, officials said. 
An Indonesian military statement said the protesters attacked tht~ soldiers and "the incident could not be avoided." But an Alperiean journalist who witnessed the shooting said the demonstrators were defense­less, carrying only banners and crosses. 
The tlxact number of casual­ties in the t-:ast Timor capital of Dili was not known, but the In­donesian Legal Aid Foundatoin said 115 pnople were killed. An Indonesian official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 40 people were slain. 

A government report later said the situation was calm in East Timor, an impoverished island territory that was forcibly annexed by Indonesia in 1976. East Timor had been under Portuguese rule. 
East Timor's 700,000 people are mostly Roman Catholic, whereas Indonesia is Muslim. Indonesian troops for years have fought FRETILIN, a small leftist group of native Timorese seeking independence for East Timor. 
In Portugal, a rebel spokesman, Jose Ramos Horta, said reports from witnesses indicated about 60 people were killed Tuesday in the clashes. 
Amy Goodman, an American reporter for the Pacifica Radio network, said the crowd gath­ered at a church for a Mass in memorial to a man who had been killed by police while tak­ing refuge in the church. 
The crowd grew to several thousand as it made a proces­sion to the cemetery where the man is buried, she told The As­sociated Press in a telephone interview from a hospital in Guam, where she had been treated for injuries suffered in the incident. 
The military statement said demonstrators turned violent because of the postponement of a fact-finding visit by Por­tuguese legislators. 
But Goodman, interviewed from New York, said there was no violent provocation as two columns of soldiers, on foot and in trucks, converged on the procession. 
Goodman said she and writer Alan Nairn, on assignment for The New Yorker magazine, moved to the front of the pro­cession, hoping that they could head off a conflict by showing their press credentials. 
But the soldiers screamed "Politics! Politics!" knocked her to the ground and started beating her with rifle butts, she said. Nairn threw himself on top of her and was badly beaten in the head, she said. 
The soldiers then opened fire on the crowd and "we just kept our heads down," she said. 
Nairn and Goodman were able to escape on a passing truck and went to the Dili hos­
pital, then ned to the airport, from which they flew to Guam. "At the hospital, we still heard shooting," she said. 
Portugal said it was delaying a U.N.-organized fact-finding trip to East Timor because of Indonesia's refusal to allow an Australian free-lance journalist, Jill Jolliffe, to accompany the mission. Indonesia accuses the journalist of writing biased articles about East Timor. 
Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said U.N. officials have to reschedule the visit on terms acceptable to both sides. 
The trip, under negotiation s-ince 1984, would be the first such mission since Indonesia sent troops to intervene in a civil war in East Timor and then annexed the territory. 

ESTER PROJECTS NEW! WORD PROCESSOR WITH PULL DOWN MENU AND DUAL SCREEN CAPABILITY • Easy read 5 X 9-in. CRT display • Uses standard 3.5-in. floppy disks • GrammarCheck includes 70,000 word "wordspell'; redundancy check, more • Double column printing $14per month.. on Sears­53935 Charge PLUS (Mfr. #WP-2200) saaa2 ·.. ·. •(Mit, #t'X]OOIJ(;j FRANKLIN ELECTRONIC CAStO GRAPHfC ··········.··•·ROYAt·•.DATA··STOQAGE.··'•••·•·· ·. SONY MJCROCASSETl'E LANGUAGE MASTER FUNCTION CAlCUlATOR .· PERSONAL ORGANizER . HAND HELD RECORDER so.oooword 99.99def10ition~ J6co.tumn .·X81in& ·6·.. t·... ··.ft.. ·· ..·.·.. ·.··.. .···!!&l:!iiiJC!99. ~f= 2ftft9 lti&SQUfUS, • . dlsplqy ·. . • ..· .. ·.·. lectures 7.7 ;:.;,.: .. :. •Sales tax, delivery or installation not included In minimum monthly payment shown. Your actual monthly payment con vary depending on your account balance. 6501 GRAPE ROAD/US 23 (219) 271-6500  


-------------------~--------~------------------­
Wednesday, November 13, 1991 The Observer page 9 
Once-sacred Mount Fuji invaded by littering tourists 
TOKYO (API -From a dis­summer, and buses from Tokyo, tance, Mount Fuji, the symbol of a four-hour drive, go more than Japan, looks as pure as the halfway to the top -7,606 feet. fresh snow that caps its peak. From there, the peak is a six­But up close, the once-sacred or seven-hour hike. mountain is a mess. "Climbers at Fuji are more­
This year. 3.6 million tourists like tourists than moun­visited Japan's tallest peak. taineers," said Watanabe. During the two-month summer "They go up at night so that climbing season alone nearly they can watch the sunrise 200,000 hiked to its 12,385-foot from the peak. They eat a lot on summit. the way, and, figuring that no 
And. local officials lament, one will see them in the most visitors are leaving more darkness, they just toss their than just thllir footprints. trash." 
"Mount Fuji used to be a sa­Watanabe said his group has ~:red mountain, an~ dese~~,rati~g mobilized 39,000 volunteer It was seen as smful. said climbers over the year for Yoshiaki Watanabe, director of cleaning runs, and removed tlw Keep Mount Fuji Clean So­140 tons of garbage from the ciety. mountain's slopes. 
"Now it's a place for tourism," lie said empty cans, cigarette lw said. butts, candy wrappers and 
Though the Japanese have a plastic lunch boxes are the reputation for personal cleanli­most common throwaways. ness, their lakes and beaches "During climbing season it's a tend to be an unsightly clutter mess," he said. of plastic and paper litter. In an effort to cut down on 
the 2 to 3 million cans thrown 
Overcrowding has contributed away each summer, officials in­to the pollution of the more stalled hundreds of automatic accessiblfl scflnic spots, like can-crushing machines along Mount Fuji, and Watanabe said the well-worn path up the many Japanese simply accept mountain and near five lakes at litter as a part of the scenery. its base. 
"I guess it's just the way That campaign has failed, people are," he said. "But with however. our tradition of worshiping na­"Machines break down," said ture, it is very disappointing Eiichi Watase, a tourism official 
Group effort 
The Observer/Marguerite schropp 

th~t ..Mount Fuji would get like in Fuji Yoshida, a city at the 
Tobi Laren, Beth Krupicka and Meri Kamradt (left to right) of Saint Mary's pay careful attention as they
this. foot of the mountain. "And 
perform a macroscale extraction in Organic Chemistry lab yesterday. 
For centuries, Mount Fuji was besides, they can only hold so believed to be a bridge to the much. If we go and put up all gods, or a god itself, and kinds of trash cans and can ascending it was considered a crushers that would wreck the religious act. Its near perfect scenery." 

Death row inmate executed 
conical shape has long inspired Watase said that during this 
.Japanese artists and poets. summer's climbing season, HUNTSVILLE, Texas (AP) -A tempt." 10, 1987. The third man, Glen But the mythical significance from July 1 to Aug. 26, 196,4 7 5 self-described "strange old Green had refused recent re­Earl Martin, is serving a life 
dude" told prison officials to quests for interviews. In earlier prison term.
of the mountain has faded this people climbed the mountain, "do it, man," before being exe­conversations, however, he had Denson's daughter, Susan,
century with modernization. compared with about 182,000 Thl1 smoothness of Mount Fuji's last year. 
cuted early Tuesday for the expressed no remorse. asked that she be allowed in the 1976 shooting death of a pro­"I have no apologies, no death chamber to watch Greenslopes has also made it a "About all we can do is ask bation officer during a burglary. mercy to ask," he said. ''I'll die so her face would be the last relatively easy target for even people to be nice," he said. "But G.W. Green, 54, was put to never tell someone I'm sorry for he saw "before he goes to hell."
the most timid climbers. people are people. We'll just Its peak is snow-free in the keep on picking up after them." 
death by injection seven hours something I didn't commit." As is customary, however, Texas 
after the U.S. Supreme Court ''I'd like to believe in heaven," prison officials declined her 
refused by a vote of 7-2 to grant he added, but when asked if he request.
If you see news happening, 
him a stay. expected to go there, he replied: Susan Denson, now 27, ex­Green, strapped to the death "Not a chance." pressed bitterness about the 
l

Call us at 239-5303 and let us know. 
chamber gurney, greeted his Green, 13th in seniority length of the appeals process. l brother, a sister and a friend among the 349 inmates on "That night, in 15 minutes,
The Observer 

who arrived to witness the exe-Texas' death row, was sen­my father lost his life," she said. cution, expressed his love, then tenced to die for the shooting "Here it is now, almost 15 years death of John Denson during a later. There's definitely a
,.ll.llllllll!!!!~~~~······ll·~old Warden Jack Pursley:·
II 'Lock and load. Let's do it, robbery at Denson's home. problem with that. I have re­>)/\. IInan." Green was one of three men spect for the justice system, but As the drugs flowed into his who invaded Denson's rural there are problems that haven't ·::"(\()\l•ar he used a vulgarity to de-home in Montgomery County, been dealt with correctly. scribe life, gasped once and about 50 miles northwest of There's nothing to put the fear 
made no further movement. He Houston, to steal Denson's of God in anybody." pronounced dead at 12:17 $6,000 gun collection. Attorney General Dan a.m., seven minutes after the The three forced Denson's Morales said he shared her sen­drugs began flowing. wife and 12-year-old daughter timent. Green's brother, Bobby, to lie under a blanket while "Something is very wrong 
crrn,uru>n at state officials as he Denson begged for his life and with a system that contains that the death chamber: "Hope then was shot by Joseph Star­kind of delays," he said. all are happy." vaggi. Green was the fifth Texas in­
his death, prison offi­Denson's wife, Grace, said mate put to death this year and 
released a note in which Green had screamed at Star­the 42nd since the state re­thanked his family and vaggi to kill her and her daugh­sumed carrying out capital for love and friendship. ter but Starvaggi refused, say­punishment in 1982. Nation­
"To the rest of society, you ing he only killed "dopers and wide, he was the 157th exe­warranted my respect," pigs." cuted since the Supreme Court Starvaggi was executed Sept. restored the death penalty. 
:'i::::::;::::::i:(::::(::) , I['" wrote. "You earned my con­
:,·.. .:'(c/l 
. j l -~ : / 
_.,_ ... ;. ,,,,., ......,.
SM
D(;'lu;:b;... ille::::.; ..;:e::. ~t:~.u:·;r,e<":.:
F~: w··e:::····:e:k·.,..·o,:ndr.
v ..·-..~ ... ·.•:· ...... Q... (o" ;.-•••••••• ~· !? ? ·.•,•'"' .................. ~: .....•... , ·.···· 

.. l. B... th.,
/ ... .:· .-.. ·j .· :· / ~ r· t ; .,:· ...::. .: .-: . "' .. ·· ·:
& B.·. .~ues ...... /o ./ ....-ers 
Nov. 15th & 16th ?p.m. Carroll Aud. $1 Sponsored by SAB 

Vie~point 
-

Page 10 Wednesday, November 13, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief• Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
r.
ftN Jl.!S\11\J\~ \') l\\E. ~~a;> ~I•·."Qt:NJ of 01'-lE ~"'\AN.'" 
-~VI-\ W~\..00 EMIO~ 

,... 
Notre ~ame should foster tolerance and respect 
r  
r  
,...  All four of my grandparents  and  taught  him  to  respect  college of cardinals appointed  environment where Protestants  
r  arrived in the U.S. on various  others -even the bigots.  any of us the grand inquisitor to  outnumber Catholics. Reality  
r ,... r r r r r r  boats from Italy. In the early 1900s they settled like others from the "Old Country" in eth­nic ghettos since they did not speak English. However, they attended evening classes to learn their new country's lan­guage and to become citizens.  Today. he is the mayor of our city, and is genuinely loved and respected. If only my grandpar­ents could see him. He is the type of person th~y were -gen­erous, forthright, and kind. It seems to me that America should be the land where being  condemn others? Bless those who follow the Catholic Church's teachings, but leave the judgments to our Holy Father in Rome. Your campus "safe havens" should actually be called "Civilized Havens." I laugh  extends well beyond du Lac. Our college years are ones of growth and maturity. We in the ND-SMC environment are fortu­nate to learn within an atmo­sphere that fosters values and ethics. It demands that we be leaders in society, that we be  
Back then, their new world was  politically incorrect is politically  whenever I think of all the fer­ held accountable to a higher  
not completely free nor tolerant  correct. This country should be  vor this issue has caused on  standard which includes fair  
r  -much like today. Grandfather Caruso labored  tolerant, should respect others' opinions, and we should care  campus. It has nothing to do with being safe. Either you re­ play, civility, and decency. Look at the recent Judge Thomas  
r  with mules underground in the  about our neighbors. Yet it  spect and welcome everyone, or  hearings in Washington. They  
r r r r  Pennsylvania coal mines while Grandfather Ciccone (cousin of Madonna's grandfather -but that's another article) laid track  bothers me that every night on the news we see violence stemming from some sort of intolerance or hatred. What  Better yet, maybe you are one of those "Catholics" who eat fish on Fridays. God forbid that your breath after Friday dinner  you are a bigot. We have no middle ground here. You cannot pick and choose equal justice under the  were the epitome of gutter politics. We must not allow that atmosphere to gain a foothold at Notre Dame  
for the Pennsylvania Railroad.  further disturbs me is the men­ should cause any discomfort to  law. If so, dorm councils might  I often think about how for­ 
In those days the establishment  tality of some  on  the Notre  those  around  you.  as  well  consider  separate  tunate I am to have attended  
thought of my family as slime.  Dame campus as displayed in  Discrimination can transform  "haven" issues for every group ­ Notre Dame, to be employed at  
After all, we were Catholic,  the letters to the editor in The  from the smallest differences  Blacks,  Hispanics,  non­ the  U.S.  House  of  
r  talked funny,  were ignorant,  Observer.  into the cruelest hatreds.  Catholics,  Asians,  Native  Representatives,  to  have  a  
r r r r  and served foods no sel~ respecting American would eat. My grandparents were offered the dirtiest of jobs. When employers did not want to hire  I recently read a letter to the editor in The Observer wherein the author opposed the content of a previously published letter. He said, "I believe you [The  My parents faced inane, igno­rant prejudices in school, at work, and in their neighbor­hoods. My mother told me of the time when I was a baby we  Americans, and on and on. Granted, it is hard to change, or to merely examine some of our basic philosophies instilled in our youth. However, college  stable family, and to be a reli­gious person. I also believe that my way of thinking is tolerant, reasonable, and diplomatic. Maybe I am wrong. I am my  
immigrants, they simply posted  Observer] should strongly con­ visited her best girlfriend in  is the perfect place for a com­ parents' son and will not fully  
a sign similar to the one my fa­ sider not printing any of [the  central  Pennsylvania.  Her  plete turnabout. I came from a  know my own human frailty  
ther remembers seeing when he  other person's) future writing  neighbors were shocked that  small suburban community with  until my judgment day.  
was  a  child.  It  read,  "No  attempts." Are we, people of the  she let us "Italians sleep in the  distinctly rigid beliefs. It took  What I can always promise is  
Niggers, Jews, Wops, or Irish  1990s, still reduced to shouting  house."  the Kent State killings during  that I will debate by beliefs with  
need apply."  down those with whom  we  It is hard to believe that the  the Vietnam War to force me to  you until I am blue in the face,  
Back then nobody knew the  disagree? I hope that this letter  harsh society of the early 1900s  grow in spirit,  to  examine  but I'll buy you a beer after­ 
phrase "politically correct," but  is  not  representative  of  a  barely changed by mid-century.  myself, my feelings, and my  ward. I have learned to respect  
they knew who, in their minds,  campus without tolerance.  I often wonder if, by the year  society. You probably will not  others, and to listen to them,  
were  correct-thinking  like  What type of person are you?  2000, the level of bigotry and  have such, a cruel awakening,  like my parents learned from  
themselves. You had to belong  Can you disagree with someone  ignorance will realistically sub­ but you should at least lift your  my grandparents.  
to certain churches, be a mem­ over an issue but still respect  side. Maybe society merely  heads from your pillow.  If  you  have  ever  been  
ber of elite fraternal organiza­ their point of view? Or do you  evolves to finally accept some  I was fortunate to have role  wronged, you should know how  
tions, or have the proper her­ personally attack others be­ who were once not accepted  models who, while maintaining  it feels to be Black or gay or  
itage to be correct. It did not  cause they are "neo-fascists  while excluding a new class of  their own biases, appreciated  pro-choice or discriminated  
matter if you had ethics, moral­ with  pseudo-prurient  re­ "undesirables." Any change will  other points of view. I remem­ against. Let's all buy a round  
ity, or values. In their minds,  portage" as another student  come from those, like today's  ber a teacher telling me that  for one another and make our  
you had to be one of them to be  recently wrote in an Observer  Notre Dame students, who will  some day I will be in the posi­ campus, as well as the country,  
worth anything.  letter to the editor? This ap­ be tomorrow's educated lead­ tion to appreciate tolerance, for  a better place for people who  
My father grew up in the  proach is an old one  -my best  ers.  I will be the minority.  are not just like us.  
shadow of discrimination and  defense is an offense.  So let us ponder some of to­ It happened in an Alabama  Gary Caruso is a graduate of  
hatred. He lived in the "wrong  Maybe you know someone  day's so-called "hot" issues on  bar before the ND-Bama game.  Notre Dame and now works in  
end" of town. He was poor. He  who whispers behind someone's  campus to gain a  glimpse of  It happened in a seventy per­ Washington, D. C.  as a desktop  
also hurt at times-,  but my  back, "Oh, he/she is gay." What  how tomorrow's educated may  cent  Black  populated  publishing specialist for the  
grandparents did not permit  the hell difference is it? Maybe  react. Condoms and birth con­ Washington, DC. It happened  U.S. House of Representatives.  
him to hate in return. Rather,  you have crooked teeth and  trol may be topics about which  again at a Jewish wedding. And  His column appears euery other  
they challenged him to succeed  should be whispered about.  we feel strongly. Fine. But what  it happens every day in a work  Wednesday.  
DOONESBURV  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

I'M 7H~ /A/OMAN
MR. RWftRN? 

FROM 7Ht Of5IJ. IAJHO {AU/3/} YOU PLeAse,I ABOUT 7H/3 VIC£ 5/TOOWN, PR/391/?tWT. MA:AM... 
I I 
THANK >-at. THIS 1511/7EA5'1FOR. 
Mt. I'V& KI3PT 7HIS StCR&TfOR. lH!i!/315 Y/3AR5, BUTI RNAUY f)fi{;ff)fi? I HAP 70 tariU?JRJUARI?, &V!JN IfIT M&ANt MY OfAI<­.tJ/;7!3/< UJOUW 813ATTACK£1), MY 
CARaR 7/?ASHW, ANVMYPff.R­
SONAL-Uf/3 llJRNW !N70A UV!At3 
N!GffTMARl3. 

AN!TAH/l-/.... 
!550R.TOF 
MY NI3/AJ 
H&RO. 
I 
'Flexibility breeds complexity.' 
David Cohn Engineering Professor 
Go ask Alice, I think she'll submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
---..,-.---­

Accent ­
Wednesday, November 13, 1991 page 11 

Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 
Baby Baby, 
where do our 
bucks go? 

F 
ellow Arts and Letters Majors, take note: I have a plea for the Administration, 
athletic department, wealthy alumni, 
and all other controllers of purse strings at 
Notre Dame. It's time to look for solutions to 
alhwiatn this financial "glitch" in the College of 
Arts and Letters. 
Two English professors have suggested 
fielding a second football team. This option has 
been completely ignored by the University. As 
Professor Bruns pointed out in yesterday's issue 
of The Observer, I am sure the surplus of money 
would go to a more useful purpose such as 
heating all the benches in the football stadium. 
At any rate, it is highly doubtful that the money 
would serve to benefit the students. 
It's ironic that the University has plenty of 
money for such expenditures as elaborate 
fireworks displays, floats and parades, new 
UnivHrsity signs, a new quad, cheesy brick walls 
around the outskirts of mod quad (thus 
reiterating my theory that ND is the Catholic 
Magic Kingdom), and now proposes adding on 
or building a new stadium, while proclaiming 
the largest school in the University to have this 
$425,000 "glitch." 
Last year, I complained about having to literally camp out to get an English class. English majors had to sleep in the hallway of O'Shaughnessy for a mere 400-level class. 
This year out of the 27 400-level English 
classes available to a second semester junior, I 
had a grand total of five to ch·oose from and I 
did not even have the latest registration time. I 
am beginning to detect a problem here: there 
are not enough dasses for English majors. 
In fact it's plain humiliating. The majority of the world knows about the $25 million Debartolo donation, not to mention the mysterious $25 million NBC football contract, not to mHntion the profits we make from playing in a game called "The Federal Express" or "Domino's" bowl game, not to mention our ever­escalating tuition costs. Go "Fighting Pizzas!" 
Where does the money go? Because we all 
know whHre it doesn't go: to the students. 
This situation is getting worse. And the problem is not just in the English Department. Other Arts and Letters students encounter similar problems, just not to the extreme of sleeping in a hallway. 
I'd be happier if the money was allocated towards hiring a new English professor instead of for brick walls, so that at least I could choose from seven or eight classes instead of five. 
Perhaps Arts and Letters students could set up donation boxes around campus in the hopes making up for this minor "glitch." Dorms could take up collections at mass, and campus leaders could solicit funds from Arts and Letters Alum. 
After all, what is a mere $425,000 in comparison to $25 million? 
And just where does all the money go? It seems to fall into a black hole never to be seen again-with the exception of that new quad. Unfortunately, by the time the new buildings are ready for use, there will not be enough classes to utilize the expensive space. 
I think the University owes the students in the College of Arts and Letters an explanation. If the University is not about the students, then what is it about? 
I encourage my fellow classmates to question the University on this issue also. After all, it is our money and our education that is being .compromised. This University is compromising its students' education-and for what? 
So prove me wrong, please, just take a stand and help to do something about this pathetic situation. 
What did the bird say as it flew over the DomH? "Cheap, Cheap." 
leanne Blasi is assistant production manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
National Players will perform the compelling story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan at Notre Dame 
By TONY POPANZ 
Accent Writer 

Notre Dame Communication and Theater will present the professional touring company National Players in William Gibson's "The Miracle Worker," to be 'performed at Washington Hall today through Sunday. 
"The Miracle Worker," co-di­rected by James Petosa and William Graham, recounts the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. 
Love, patience, discipline, and diligence are the miracle workers in this magnificent drama about two remarkable women. Helen Keller, surviving a severe illness which leaves her deaf and blind, needs a special teacher to communicate with the world around her. 
Gripped with fear, Helen resists those who try to help her. However, Annie Sullivan, armed with a fanatical dedication to her task, breaks through Helen's defenses with a balance of toughness and tenderness. 
"There is a great chemistry between the two women who play Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan," said Tom Barkes, manager of Washington Hall. "Normally, there is a tendency for plays to have very good men's roles, but in 'The Miracle Worker' exists two tour de force women's roles. It is a great play-very inspiring." 
Other critics agree, for they have called the play "just plain wonderful... with the power to wrench the heart." 
Barkes said that ND Communication and Theater is fortunate to include a profes­sional play in its production series. 
Last year, the National Players ·opened the mainstage season with "The Taming of the Shrew." 
"We had a lot of fun last year. They put on a good play," said Barkes, "They (National Players) always bring a good, quality product to the campus." 
After 42 seasons of touring, National Players has earned a unique name and place in American Theater. Touring 35 states each year, the National Players presents high quality productions of the world's great plays done by professional players performing freshly conceived staging. 
Performing since 1949, "Players" has given approxi­mately 5000 performances cre­ating a rich tradition of touring for which they are world renowned. 
In 1949, Fr. Gilbert V. Hartke, assembled a group of the most talented graduates in the drama department at the Catholic University of America in Washington D.C. The resulting positive respQnse nationwide has kept the program active ever since. 

The program is currently made up of 14 members, each of whom is responsible for several jobs in addition to their acting responsibilities. All have had some acting training and most have graduated from graduate or undergraduate college programs. They arrive a few hours before curtain time to execute a technical transformation of the stage that is as well-rehearsed and choreographed as the perfor­mance itself. 
The company consists of a select group of actors. Barb Pinolini, general manager of National Players, said that she sees at least 3,000 people during auditions. "It's a countrywide search. For most, (Players) is a nice bridge from academic to professional theater," she added. 
Since the tour runs from mid­September through mid­November of the following year, "Players" is the longest running tour in the country, said Pinolini. 
"Young audiences can relate to the people in National Players. Our company makes Shakespeare and other classics come alive rather than come across stuffy as they do in class," Pinolini continued. 
The National Players will be available between performances to allow students to meet with them informally to discuss aspects of their acting career on the road. 
Performances of "The Miracle Worker" will run from Wednesday, November 13, through Saturday, November 16, at 8:10 p.m., and Sunday, November 17, at 3:10p.m. 
Tickets for "The Miracle Worker" are $7 and are available in advance through the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Student and senior citizen discounts are available for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday performances. 
To order tickets with your MasterCard or Visa call 239­
8128. Tickets are also available at the door. 
-



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at 1he Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

lost Fuji camera on Halloween in  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Happy Birthday Kristy!  It's 10 p.m. do you know where  
NOTICES  parking lot of either Club 23 or the Commons. If found please call  2 0/W AIR SB-PHILLY. NOV 14, 7am $60 EA.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  From The Outlaw, Andy Boy, and Homey Pats Tim's Harry  your work partner is???????  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Sheila #2547. WANTED  I  287-9676 Want to FLY to the N.Y.C. area for  289-1993. Office near campus. --TOM WESTRICK-­ Crotch LUNCH FOR 2 AT EMPORIUM!  Six weeks until Christmas Break!  
Thanksgiving Break? I have a CHEAP round-trip plane  --TOM WESTRICK-­--TOM WESTRICK-­ You are eligible to win this truly  ~~~  
Buy and Sell used books  ALASKA SUMMER  ticket for sale.  You weenie in INSBRUCK  awesome prize by volunteering at  
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and  EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  Call MIKE@ X3263.  Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock  the SMC Student Phonathon,  
the NY Times tool!  $5,000+/month. Free  wish you well in that land of easy  November 4-14, 1991. Call Jean at  
comer of ND ave and Howard  transportation! Room & Board!  "A".  4582 to sign up or for additional  
233-2342/10-5:30 everyday  Over 8,000 openings. No  NEW TYPEWRITER 40% OFF  May your skiing ever be in those  details! Free long distance phone  
experience necessary. MALE or  271-0868.  wonderful mounds of Austrian  calls! Free food! Free fun!  
Word processing IBM Compatible Extensive experience w/ theses, dissertations. manuscripts, publications, senior projects, etc. Professional resuItsI  FEMALE. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118. Sales Demonstrator  COMPUTER, IBM COMPATIBLE. '8086 running at 8 mhz. '1 Floppy and one 20 meg. H.D. •Amber Screen '3.2 DOS included.  mountains. --TOM WESTRICK WESTRICK WESTRICK-­ TOM TOM  WANTED:TASTY SYR DATES INTERESTED?? BRING A BANANA TO 218 LYONS  :BREAKS RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! I  
277-9273 NOTRE DAME VIDEO NEW RELEASES Silence of the Lambs The Doors Robin Hood Backdraft  To demonstrate and sell an all purpose cleaner in a national major retail chain. $7 hr. plus incentive and benefit program. Full and part time positions available immediately in Mishawaka & Goshen. Will train. Call 1-800-7 41-0868 for information and interview.  $450. 239-7349 or 255-7381 0/W Plane ticket,D.C. to O'Hare 1/15/92 (date negotiable) $80. Call Jackie 283-4350.  ADOPTION: Proud parents of adopted toddler eager to find newborn to join our family. Our warm and stable home offers security, lots of adoring relatives and a life full of love. Please call Barb and Dave collect 513-751­7077.  Squire Ravage has been docu­mented as procrastinating in regards to his present wagon ride. Maybe next week. RIDE NEEDED FOR THANKSGIVING ARE YOU DRIVING TO THE  DAYTONA BEACH 5 and 7 NIGHTS SOUTH PADRE ISL 4ND 5 AND 7 NIGHTS STEAMBOAT 2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS PANAMA CITY BEACH 7 NIGHTS FORT LAUDERDALE 7 NIGHTS HILTON HEAD ISUND 5 AND 7 NfCHiS  "~ IJQ4 ,_If28 "•m'f22 ,, .. lf22 "'mlfJ6 . m lff9  
7 DAYS A WEEK-(4-11p.m.)  LOOKING FOR a Fraternity,  TICKETS  ATIENTION WASH. D.C. AREA  NO.JERSEY/NYC/L.I. AREA? IF SO, I WILL PAY $$AND SPLIT  MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS  ".... lf28  
BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949  Sorority, Student Organization, or exceptional individuals that would like to potentially make $1000.00 or more sponsoring QUALITY SKI and BEACH trips on campus. For further  NEED 2 PENN ST T!X; DAVE 283­1545  STUDENTS!II Sign-ups for X-mas bus are 8-9p.m. Nov. 19 in basement Lafortune. Cost­$55 1way/$110 rt.  DRIVING. WILL LEAVE TUES OR WED. PLEASE CALL X3414  5 AND 7 NIGHTS ltth Annual Celebration! TOLL FREE INFORMAT 10N &RIUAVATIONI 1·800·321·5911  
information Call Mark at Orion  ~~  
Tours, Inc.  For Sale: 2 Penn St GAs  Get Some  --------­.-..w  
SEND YOUR MAN A FLOWER!! Wednesday, Nov. 13th at IRISH GARDENS  1-800-800-6050. ICE SKATING INSTRUCTORS  x2558 Amy  Glee Club's Minn. Tour Top 10  Gl Jiver, I really missed you last week!Let's "Copa at the Cabana on Friday!  SEIZED CARS, trucks, boats, 4wheelers,  
for Wednesday nights, 6:45­ 4 Penn State tickets needed.  GM Barry M  motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA  
Discount for women sending flowers  9:15 pm. Call Mrs. Myers at  Call Marijan at 239-7380  10.Thor, DARTing from the  Available your area now.  
or balloons­$. 50 off any purchase up to $5.00  287-4524 and please list your qualifications.  {day) or 277-5746 (eve.)  Metrodome. 9.Cinderella, oh Cinderella...  Call (805)682-7555 Ext. C-5921  
$1.00 off any purchase over $5.00 Watch for future Wednesday  CHICKS NEED RIDE RED HOTC.P. KALAMAZOO NOV 20  I NEED PENN ST TIX.272-6306  8.1 wonder if he has change for a $20? ?.Remember, when the cheerleaders are here, we're  Vermin Football: Cha-ching! Favor Requested and Granted. Say  EARN $ZOOO. + FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP  
Specials! LOST/FOUND [ TO THE PERSON WHO BORROWED THE TAN OVER­COAT HALLOWEEN NIGHT ON THE RIDE TO LAFAYETIE SQ.,  #2900 Earn extra income stuffing Env. Send SASE; Bass Co. P.O. Box 92, N.D. IN. 46556-0092. Help! I need a ride to Indy or Dayton this weekend Someone going to Penn game could just drop me off somewhere in Ohio.PLEASE call  LOOKING FOR PENN ST. TICKETS call x2447 help family reunoin in HAPPY VALLEY-need a TON of TIX for PSU game. call BILL X1583 PERSONAL  Vikings fans. 6.Chug sings Hallelujah. 5.Urea-man. Sweats on command. 4.Move it, Waldo has a 9:301 3."1'm not talented enough too..." -every MN clubber. 2.Sing the 2nd half quick, my wife's in town! 1.Nice Pooperl  this prayer 9 times per day for 8 days... it has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised. May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved and preserved throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude helper of the hopelss pray for us.  North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun Bahamas, Daytona and Panama City!  
COULD YOU PLEASE CALL MARK OR KEVIN 289-6494 LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE-AROUND THE JACC OR WASHINGTON HALL. PLEASE CALL 1456  Sean1387 FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. Going to CLEVELAND this weekend? I might like a ride,  BB ST. TIX CHEAPII CALL LISA 4862 Need a ride to Holland, Ml or vicinity this Fri. Call Jen 284-4351  Thank you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and Mary! ZAHM FOOTBALL Congratulations on an outstanding season and a great game last Sunday!  F'R'Ee7~-;.rn;1p;dl rental ol equal value. I Bring ad. Umit 1-Hurry! I Expires in 10 "llays-I VIdeo Warehouse I 21022 South BendI~-ll~~J ,-----~~~~----~~ POSTAL JOBS AVAILABLE  
please. Pete x1791.  
Lost Gold Coin Ring Great Sentimental Value If found please call Usa  BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, LAUNDRY, ETC.  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  Garth Brooks is a GOD!!IIIII  Carroll Hall The Vermin  Many pos~ions. Great benefits. Call (805) 682-7555 Ext. P-3644  
atx4838  CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794.  ADOPTION  NO WOMEN'S CHOIR-practice  
What's the deal with this?  Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with  Wed., 6-7:30 at Sacred Heart. Bethere!ll  REPOSSESSED & IRS  
Lost, one green, blue and gold  A quaint studio in lovely old  warmth and love. Can provide  FORECLOSED HOMES  
London Fog down jacket lost at the  mansion 1/2 mile from N.D.  $225/  GETAWAY WEEKEND  financial security and education.  Monica (The Troublemaker),  available at below market value.  
Unebacker. Call Emily at x3725, no  mo. plus deposit call 2879624  KOONTZ HOUSE  Medical/legal expenses paid.  You better watch out, I am really  Fantastic savings! You repair.  
-­ questions asked.  FOR SALE  BED 'N BREAKFAST 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE DAME  Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call1-800­456-2656.  going to make sure that you aren't crabby, as hard as that may be. So cheer up, it will all be over soon  Also S&L bailout properties. Call (805)682-7555 Ext. H-6237  
LOST: ONE PAIR BLACK LEATHER GLOVES SOMEPLACE ON CAMPUS. FINDER CALL FR. SEAMUS AT 283-3411.  A Beautiful 78 VW Van. from California, Great Condition ... $2300 (616) 684-7203  586-7090 stronger than burt  Lando Lives  enough, you only have to put up with me for the rest of the semester. -FL Hi Tony (a.k.a. POOKIE)  FREE TRAVEL Air couriers and Culseships. Students also needed Christmas, Spring and Summer for Amusement Park enployment.  
Call (805)682-7555 Ext. F-3397  

page 12 The Observer 
-
NO's Zadra "devilish'' on ice 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
He whirls, twists, and twirls, zipping across the ice with reckless abandon. He bowls over any opponent daring enough to get in his path and devours any puck that passes nearby. 
Sound like the Tasmanian Devil on skates? No, it's Notre Dame hockey star Lou Zadra. But coach Ric Schafer likens his left winger to the cartoon beast. Why? 
"Tenacity. Lou is one hockey player who's not afraid to be where the action is," Schafer explained. "He's not afraid to go into the corners after the puck." 
Considering that tenacity, it is not surprising that Zadra is a proficient scorer. After four games, he leads the Irish with three goals and six total points. The senior marketing major has tallied in every statistical category. 

This season's quick start is not a surprise, either. It's just a continuation of where Zadra left off last year. He had at least one point in Notre Dame's last ten games en route to top­ping the Irish in goals scored with 24. That fine season boosted Zadra's career totals to 46 goals, 41 assists, and 87 total points. 
Zadra's skills will be needed more acutely than ever this year with the loss of starting center and last year's total point leader, David Bankoske, who is out with a broken arm. Zadra knows that will make things difficult. 
"Dave's injury is a dramatic loss," he said. "We've been on the same line for three years and we're used to playing to­gether." 
Schafer agreed, but doesn't want Zadra to change with the new situation. 
"Lou just needs to keep being Lou." With or without injuries, the Irish face a formidable schedule 
including two dates each with hockey powers Maine, Michigan, and Ferris State. As usual, Zadra is not intimidated. 
"It will be very challenging, especially without Banko and Greg Louder (the Irish goalie who is out indefinitely with a broken hand), but it's good for the program. We can show that we're becoming one of the strongest teams in the country," Zadra said. "The team record should improve from last year." 
Zadra's outlook on his own abilities, once again, is not sur­prising. He is very confident, especially in his ability to score. 
"My biggest strength is a quick, hard shot," he said. 
When asked about Schafer's "Tasmanian Devil" comment, Zadra seemed surprised. 
"I guess you could describe my style of play that way. I have two 10-minute major penalties, which may stick out in coach's mind," Zadra admit­ted, then paused. "I also wear a tattoo of the Tasmanian Devil on my hip." 
he Observer/Scott McCann Senior winger Lou Zadra is currently leading the Irish in scoring and will continue to be a presence on the Irish hockey team throughout the year. 

SCOREBOARD
Wednesday, November 13, 1991 ~13 
NBA STANDINGS  
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Atlantic  Dlvlolon  
W  L  Pet  Gil  L1 0  Slruk  Home  Away  Collf  
New Vorl<  4  2  .667  - 4-2  Won  4  4­ 0  o­ 2  4­ 2  
Orlando  4  2  .667  - 4-2  won  1  2­ 0  2­ 2  4­ 2  
Philadelphia  4  2  .667  - 4-2  Won  4  3­ 1­ 1  3­ 2  
Mtemt  2  2  .500  I  2-2  Lost  I  t- I  1·  1  2­ 2  
Bolton  2  4  .333  2  2-4  Lost  3  t­ 2  1·  2  2­ J  
Washington  2  5  .286  2 t/2  2-5  Lost  5  t­ 3  1­ 2  2­ 4  
New Jer1ty  I  4  .200  2 1/2  t -4  Lost  4  o­ 2  I·  2  1­ 4  
Central  Otvllfon  
Chicago  S  2  .714  S-2  won  4  4-1  1-1  4-1  
Atlante  4  2  .66 7  t/2  4-2  Won  3  3­ 1­ I  J­ 2  
Detroit  4  2  .667  1/2  4-2  Loll  1  2­ 2­ I  4­ 2  
Mllweuku  4  4  .500  I 1/2  4-4  Lost  2  2­ 2­ 3  3­ J  
Cleveland  2  4  .333  2 1/2  2-4  Won  1­ 0  1­ 4  1­ 0  
lndtene  2  5  .2116  3  2-5  Lost  4  1­ 1  I·  4  0­ 1  
Charlotte  I  6  . 143  4  I -6  Lost  3  1­ 2  0­ 4  1­ 6  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Mldwut Dtvhton  
W  L  Pet  Gil  L1 0  struk  Home  Away  conf  
HOUlton  5  I  .B33  5-t  won  4  4­ 0  1­ I  4­ I  
Sen Antonio  4  1  .800  1/2  4-1  Won  2  3­ 0  1­ I  3­ 1  
Denver  J  2  .600  I 1/2  3-2  Loll  I  3­ I  0­ I  3­ 2  
Uleh  J  J  .500  2  3-3  Won  2  2­ I  I·  2  J- 
Mlnnuoto  1  4  200 3 t/2  t-4  Lost  I  0­ 2  1­ 2  1­ 4  
Dellu  1  6  .143  41/2  1-6  Lost  3  .o­ 3  1­ 3  1­ J  
Peclrtc  Dtvlaton  
Golden State  5  1  .833  5-1  Won  1  1•  0  4­ I  2­ 0  
LA Cltppero  5  2  .714  t/2  5-2  Won  I  4­ 0  t­ 2  J­ 2  
Suttle  3  2  .600  I 1/2  3-2  Won  3  2·  2  1­ 0  2­ 2  
Phoenix  3  3  .500  2  3-3  Lost  I  1•  I  2­ 2  3­ 2  
Portland  3  3  .500  2  3-3  Won  2  3­ 0­ 2  0­ J  
LA Lekoro  2  3  .400  2 1/2  2-3  won  1  1·  1­ 2  2­ J  
Sacramento  2  4  .333  3  2-4  Lost  2  2·  0­ 3  1­ 4  
Mondey'e  Gom11  
Philadelphia 102, Milwaukee 99  
Utoh t 06, Sacramento 90  
LA Clipper. I 06, lndtone 97  
Tuudey'e  Gem11  
Loll Gomes  Not  Included  
New Vorl< 98, Now Jersey 96  
Orlando 95, Wuhtngton 82  
Atlonto llii,Chorlotte tOO  
Cleveland 119, Milwaukee 113  
Chicago 110, Detroit 93  
Houlton 96, Dalles 92  
Denver ol Portland, (n)  
Phoenix et Golden Stele, (n)  
Bo1ton at Sacramento, (n)  
Wodnudey'e  Gem11  
Uleh ol New Jersey, 7:30p.m.  
Phtlodelphto ot Orlando, 7:30p.m.  
Detroit ol Mtoml, 7:30P.m.  
Chicago ol Charlotte, 7:30 p m.  
New Vorl< ol lndtone. 7:30pm.  
Washington ol Minnesota, 8 p.m.  
LA Clippers olSon Antonio, 6:30p.m.  
Boston ol Phoenix, 9:30p.m.  


THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED 
SCHOLAR LECTURE 
PRESENTS 

Dr. Marvin J. Miller (Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry) 
Iron Transport-Mediated Drug Delivery: "In Search of the Magic Bullet" 
Thursday, November 14, 1991 
8:00 P.M. 

Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium (Room 283) 
. ...... ' ·····j

'--------~­
TRANSACTIONS 
IIASEIIALL American League BALTIMOAE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms wHh Glenn Devta, flrll buemen, on o 2-yeor contract. Notional Lugue CINCINNATI REDS-Signed Tim Drummond ond Tony Menendez, Pilcher•; Geronimo Berroe, Jacob Brumfield, Dwight Taylor, Ruben Escalera, Nick Copra, Jeff Schulz, end Jeff Slone, outfielders; Darnell Coles, Gory Green, Mark Howle • ond Russ Mormon, Infielders; ond Tom Nieto, Joe Szekely ond Rick Wrona. catchers. to minor league contracts. FOOTIIALL Nettonel Football League NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Gene Taylor, wide receiver. HOCKEY Meltonel Hockey League BOSTON BRUINS-Signed Barry Pederson, 
center. NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recellod Brod Delgerno. right wing, from Copttel Ohtrtct 
of the American Hockey League. NEW YORK RANGERS-Acquired Jeff Beukeboom. defensemen, from the Edmonton Oilers for David Shew, defenseman, to complete the trade Involving Marl< Messier. Western Hockey League BRANDON WHEAT KINGS-Named Kevin Maxwell coach. COLLEGE CANIS IUS-Announced the retirement of Tom Hersey, football coach. EAST TENNESSEE STATE-Announced the resignation of Don Alley, football coach, effective Dec. J 1. RUTGERS-NEWARK-Named Lewis Shotne sports Information director ond Dove DeFerrort men's oulstont besketbal1 coach. VIRGINIA TECH-Suspended Rod Wheeler, guard, from the basketball teom for one 
yeor. 

NFL STATS 
OFFENSE : TOTAL YARDAGE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Yarda Ru1h Pou 
Buffalo 411B 1441 2677 Houston 3944 953 2991 Jets 3374 1316 205B Denver 3252 1272 19BO Ctnclnnoll 3248 t20B 2040 Son Diego 3245 1371 1874 Seattle 3108 930 217B Konsos City 3077 1410 1667 Mloml 3067 790 2277 Pittsburgh 3023 1010 2013 Cleveland 2835 762 2073 Rotders 21108 995 1813 New England 2549 95B 1591 lndtonopo11s 2377 591 1786 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Yerdt ~ RUth Pou 
Son Fronctsco 3608 1292 2316 Washington 35711 1445 2133 Oollos 3260 1020 2240 Glonta 3139 1441 1698 Detroit 3050 11B9 IB61 Minnesota 3350 1415 1935 Atlonlo 3039 1060 1979 Chicago 3020 1197 IB2J Roms 2945 B59 20B6 New Orleans 2B56 1000 1856 Phfledelphto 2737 7B5 1952 Green Boy 2631 734 IB97 Phoenix 2BBO 952 192B Tempo Boy 2488 960 152B 
Notre Dame "Communication & Theatre presents: 
MIRACLE
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 
WORKER 
BYWILUAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. 
Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. 
Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. 
Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. 
Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders cal1239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Source: Atlanta Braves Media Guide 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Potrtck  Dtvlllon  
W  L  T  Ptl  
Washington  I J  4  0  26  
NV Rangers  12  6  I  25  
New Jersey  1 1  7  0  22  
Pittsburgh  7  7  J  17  
Philadelphia  6  B  I  13  
NV Islanders  4  I 0  2  to  
Adame  Dtvt1lon  
Montreal  14  5  I  29  
Hartford  B  6  2  18  
Boston  5  7  4  14  
Buffalo  5  9  II  
Quebec  J  12  1  7  
CAHPIIELL  CONFERENCE  
Norrta  Dtvtston  
w  l  T  Ptr  
Chicago  !I  7  4  20  
Detroit  9  8  19  
Minnesota  8  II  I  17  
St. Louts  6  7  5  17  
Toronto  5  12  2  12  
Smythe  Dtvtelan  
Vancouver  12  4  2  26  
Calgary  9  6  2  20  
Los Angeles  ll  5  4  20  
Winnipeg  7  7  4  lB  
Edmonton  6  9  J  15  
Sen Jose  3  15  0  6  
Saturdau'•  Gem11  
Bolton 4, New Jersey 0  
Pittsburgh 3, Minnesota 2  
Montreal 4, Chicago 2  
Colgory 6, Toronto 1  
Hartford 4, St. Louts J  

Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 4, tte Son Jose 4, N.Y. Islanders J 
sunday'• Gamu Washington 10, Quebec J Detroit 6, St. Louts 4 Chtcogo J, Hertford 0 Vancouver 6, N.Y. Islanders 0 
Monday's Gemea Winnipeg 6, los Angeles 2 Washington 4, Montreal 2 
N.Y. Rangers J, Pittsburgh 1 GF GA Home Away Dtv 85 52 5-2-0 8-2-o 7-0-0 65 56 8-J-1 4-3-0 5-2-o 70 51 7-1-0 4-6-0 J-4-0 65 67 2-4-J 5-J-0 J-5·1 46 48 4-J-0 2-5-I t-S-1 56 71 J-4-1 1-6-1 1-4-o 
70 JJ B-J-0 6-2-1 6-2-1 52 53 4-2-2 4-4-0 3· 2-t 54 56 J-J-1 2-4·3 0-1-1 36 52 4-J-1 1-6-0 J-4-1 51 70 J-5-t 0-7-0 1-4-0 
GF GA Home Awou DIY 70 66 6-4-2 2-J-2 o-3-J 71 60 7-4-0 2-4-1 4-4-1 57 55 6-J-0 2-5-I 5-1-1 57 66 4-2-2 2-5-J 2-4-2 4B 70 s-4-1 0-8-1 4-J-1 
70 47 7-2-2 5-2-0 6-2-1 70 55 J-1-0 6-5-2 3-4-0 65 64 J-2-2 5-J-2 J-J-3 57 62 5-5-I 2-2-J J-J-2 55 71 J-2-2 J-7-1 J-4-2 48 93 J-4-0 0-11-0 2-4-0 
Tuesday'• Gemu 
Lell Gemu Not Included 
New Joraey 5, Phflodelphto 2 
Horttord 5, Quebec 4 
Mlnnuoto 7, Toronto 0 
Detroit ot Celgery, (n) 
Buffalo ol Son Jose, (n) 
Los Angeles ot Vancouver, (n) 
Wednudeu'a Gamea 
Woshtngton ot N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. 
Edmonton et Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Thur•doy'• Gomu 
Quebec ot Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
Montreal ot Hertford, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. 111onder1 ot New Jersey, 7:35p.m. Edmonton ol Phflodelphto. 7:35p.m. Toronto ot Chicago, B:35 p.m. Winnipeg ot St. Louts, 1!:35 p.m. Vancouver ot Col gory, 9:35p.m. Buffalo ot Lo1 Angelu, I 0:35p.m. Detroit at Son Jo11, I 0:35 p.m. 
.. 
·­


page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1991 
-Fencers hone skills in preseason 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After an impressive perfor­mance at last weekend's Penn State Collegiate tournament, the Notre Dame fencing team is preparing for next month's Dominguez Open in Chicago. 
Coach Mike DeCicco, entering his 31st year at the helm of the Irish fencing program, was pleased with the individual per­formances at Penn State despite the absence of some key players. 
Women's foil captain Heidi Piper and men's epee standouts Jubba Beshin and Dave Calderhead didn't make the trip, but several other players picked up the slack. 
Kathleen Vogt finished in the top 16 in the women's foil com­petition and Ed Baguer turned in an impressive third place fin­ish in the men's sabre division. In the men's foil competition, Jeff Piper and Mike Trisko fin­ished 12th and 14th, respec­tively. 
"With some of our top people not making the trip, it was a very good result," DeCicco said, "especially considering that it was our first competition since midsemester break." 
Crew 
continued from page 15 
Greece next semester). 
"(The coxswain) is just like the 9th rower in the boat. A lot of courses (especially in Elkhart) take S-turns and we need them to steer us on a straight course," said Werner. 
"Their other purpose is moti­vation. If you respect your coxswain, if they can under­stand the feeling of the boat, and if they use the right phrases, it makes the guys work a lot harder. A coxswain is like the jockey on a race­horse," said Werner. 
Of the coxswains for the women's squad (Trisha Starr and Christina Soletti), Duffy said, "They steer a good course. They really take com­mand and I feel confident in their ability." 
Although a good coxswain is boisterous, authoritative and obnoxious in the boat, Starr and Soletti are different. 
"You wouldn't think they could get out there and take charge. They are really friendly and easy to get along with out of the water," said Duffy. 
The men, currently without a coach, and the women, under the direction of senior Shawn McGarry, look forward to a successful spring. 
"We hope our workouts will bring us to a peak (in the spring sprint season," said Duffy. 
According to Werner, the men's team has high aspira­tions for the spring of '92. 
"There shouldn't be anybody in the Midwest besides Wisconsin (supported by an enormous $400,000 budget) with a decisive edge over us," said Werner. 
Lou 
continued from page 20 

_, 
in high school, are in contention for placekicking 
duties. 
Linebacker Anthony Peterson also suffered an ankle injury against the Volunteers, and is expected to miss two to three 
weeks. 

Along with Piper and Vogt, Mary Westrick should make a strong contribution to the women's foil team as the season progresses. 
On the men's side, Greg Wozniak should add some depth to the men's epee division, while Henry Chou and James Taliaferro will join Baguer in the men's sabre division. 
Although the upcoming Dominguez Open is basically an exhibition, it will give both the veterans and the newcomers the opportunity to showcase their skills and prove that they are capable of continuing the proud Notre Dame fencing tra­dition, which includes nearly 600 wins and three national championships during the DeCicco era. 
"We're pointing toward to­ward the Dominguez Open," DeCicco commented. "We use these tournaments as a mea­suring stick to see who will be ready to compete during the season." 
Next month's tournament will be the final tune-up for the team before the regular season gets underway at Northwestern on January 11th against Chicago, Wisconsin, Lawrence and Minnesota. 

STUDENTS and Business 
Experts Discussing the 
Dynamics of the New 
Trade Agreement as it 
Pertains to Mexico, the 
United States and 
Canada. 

............................................................................................. 
Wednesday, November 13, 1991 The Observer 
page 15 

Notre Dame crew teams enjoying successful fall campaigns 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey The Notre Dame crew team will not be seen on Saint Joseph's River for much longer. Shorter, colder days will force the team inside for the winter. The men's and 
women's varsity crew teams have participated in races all across the country. 
By JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's varsity crew team culminated its fall season last wnek in Elkhart, while the novice team still has one race remaining this weekend. 
While the varsity team takes a week off before its six-day-a­"Ice forms on your paddles week workouts, the novice team and you can't see where you're travels to the aptly named going...It takes a lot of dedica­Frostbite Meet in Philadelphia. tion to be out on the river under 
"We've been out practicing in conditions like that," he said. "I the cold and dark for the past just hope dedication pays off for few weeks," said men's novice us, "he said. coach Dave Reeder recalling The Irish crew squad traveled the practices that last until past to the Head of the Charles in sundown on the St. Joseph Boston the first weekend of fall River. break. There the men's Heavy­8 team finished 36th out of 43. 
"Actually, we were pretty happy with our performance," said men's captain Joe Werner, who emphasized the outstand­ing level of competition. "We raced in the championship event with against the best crews in the country, if not the world." 
The women's Light-4 placed 
GRADUATING MIS & CAPP SENIORS 
Put Yourself In The Picture 
ReceptionWednesday, November 13 5pm-7pmDooley Room, Lafortune 
On-campus Interviews Thursday, November 14 

~u know"' "' Moxwell Hou"" 
coffee, Jell-0 gelatin, Miracle Whip, 
Velveeta cheese, Kool-Aid, 
Philadelphia Brand cream cheese, 
Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Claussen 
pickles, Tombstone pizza and 
Entenmann's cookies -to name a few. 
We're Kraft General Foods, a familiar 
sight in almost every American home ­
and millions of others worldwide. 
Meet the people behind the products. 
KGF's representatives are coming to talk with graduating seniors interested in a postion in Information Systems within the Chicagoland area. Ifyou're a creative, highly aware, focused go-getter, stop by the Reception/Pizza Party. Dress attire is casual. We are eager to discuss challenges and choices with May Graduates who have a background in one of the following areas: 
• MIS 

• CAPP There's a world ofopportunities at Kraft General Foods. So please visit with us -and what you'll hear could lead to a very colorful career. Look for us on campus this fall. An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer. 
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS 
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES 
16th out of a field of 32. The 
women were happy about their 
finish. "We felt pretty pleased. 
The race is steeped in tradition 
and we were rowing against the 
national team that will probably 
be in the '92 Olympics," said 
captain Terra Duffy. 
ND then headed to 
Philadelphia, where they had 
two-a-day workouts before 
competing in the Head of the 
Schukyll the following weekend. 
After extensive training and 
preparation for the Charles, an 
'invitation only' race which re­
jected bids from both the men's 
and women's light-4's, both 
Irish urgs were ready for the 
Schukyll, even though only 
heavyweight races were avail­
able there. 
Rowing against stronger 
boats, Werner considered his 
team's finish {22nd out of 36) a 
significant accomplishment, 
commending the boat of 
Christian Dunbar, Mike Martin, 
Steve Raich, Tim Sosenowski 
and coxswain Heidi Weber. 
The men's heavy-8 performed 
exceptionally. Finishing 27 out 
of 61, the closest Midwest team 
was Michigan, which came in 
15 seconds behind ND. 
The women's light-4 was also 
impressive against their heavier 
opponents, earning 22nd out of 
40. The open-8 boat was 30th out of 55. 
"The heavyweight division for 
the open-8 is the best around. 
Whenever you go east, you find 
some outstanding crew teams," 
explained Duffy. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame raced closer to home, at the third annual Head of the Elk in Elkhart, an event which contin­ues to attract a larger and more competitive field. The meet now includes most Big-10 teams, as well as schools like Cincinnati, Kansas, and Kansas State. 
While the results of the race are delayed, Werner is confi­dent the team did well. 
"We felt pretty happy with it. We're expecting to be at or near the top {with their open­8)," said Werner. 
The men's coach Mike Brose, a local businessman, left the team to relocate, leaving cap­tain Joe Werner in charge. Werner described his new role as player-manager: "It's diffi­cult to have to make decisions on the team and then have to sit with them in the boat." 
"You have to make correc­tions in the boat rather than on the launch," he said. "The coach usually drives alongside the rowers in a motorboat and makes corrections {using a megaphone)." 
Along with Werner, the Irish coxswains also have added re­sponsibility because of the coach's absence. This role is filled by Heidi Weber and Jen deBrun (who will leave for 
see Crew/ page 14 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1991 
Rocket named CFL All-Star 
TORONTO (AP) -Raghib "Rocket" Ismail was a unani­mous choice to the Canadian Football League's East Division all-star team named Tuesday. 
Two of Ismail's Toronto Argonauts teammates also were unanimous selections, fel­low receiver Darrell K. Smith and kicker Lance Chomyc. Toronto put 14 players on the team. 
Ismail, a rookie out of Notre Dame who turned down a shot at the NFL to sign a four-year, $18-million contract with Toronto, also was picked as the all star-team's special-teams player. Smith was named for the fifth straight year, but for the first time as a unanimous pick. 
Winnipeg running back Robert Mimbs, the CFL's lead­ing rusher, was the only other unanimous choice. 
The voting was done by the Football Reporters of Canada. 
The Ottawa Rough Riders placed eight players on the team and Winnipeg had five. There were no Hamilton Tiger­Cats. 
Of the other 11 Argo selec­tions, seven were repeaters. Guard Dan Ferrone picked up his eighth division all-star honor with punter Hank Ilesic earning his seventh. 
Receiver David Williams, of­fensive tackle Chris Schultz, defensive tackle Harold Hallman and defensive backs Reggie Pleasant and Don Wilson were the others. First­time picks included defensive ends Mike Campbell and Brian Warren and linebacker Darryl Ford. 
Quarterback Damon Allen was one of four Ottawa players named to the offensive unit, along with fullback David Conrad, center Irv Daymond and guard Gerald Roper. Getting the nod on defence were lineman Lloyd Lewis, linebacker Brian Bonner and defensive backs Anthony Drawhorn and Scott Flagel. 
Big Ten bowl picture cloudy 
CHICAGO (AP) -Some Big Ten football coaches hoping to see their teams at a bowl game said Tuesday they're' too busy worrying about finishing the regular season to think about who'll go where. 
With just two games to go on the Big Ten schedule, coaches said in their weekly teleconference that it looks like Michigan (8-1 overall and 6-0 in the Big Ten) and Iowa (8-1, 5-1) are sure shots for a bowl berth. 
No.25 Illinois, Indiana and No. 19 Ohio State, all 4-2 in the conference, need wins in their remaining games for an invita­tion, coaches said. 
Illinois, 6-3 overall, takes on Michigan on Saturday. In last week's lopsided 41-14 victory over Purdue, the Illini showed they can play like a bowl team, but the challenge to defeat No. 4 Michigan is great. 
Other Big Ten teams not in the running for a bowl game ­Purdue, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan State -said they're content to try for victories in their final games and to ana­lyze the problems they had during the season. 


SPORlS BRIEFS 

SEMINAR ON BUSINESS FACULTV CAREERS 
FOR MBA STUDENTS, SENIORS AND JUNIORS IN ALL COLLEGES AND MAJORS 

Cou.EOB OP BuSJNBSs ADMINISTRATION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRB DAME. INDIANA .6556 
ARE YOU SHORTCHANGING YOUR CAREER OPTIONS? 
What's involved in becoming a business professor? What are the academic qualifications and requirements? How long does it take? How much does it cost? Are scholarships available? Other financial help? What are the starting salaries and trends? What are the career satisfactions from teaching, 
research, and service? How much control over your life do you have? If I am interested, what are the next steps to take? 
I invite you to join the College's faculty and other interested students for brief faculty presentations and a panel discussion. I hope to see you there. This meeting just might make you consider an entirely different career! Please join us. 
Dean John G. Keane 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12,4:15 PM ROOM 120 HAYES-HEALY 
............... 
~--­

Wednesday, November 13, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Atlanta's Glavine awarded National League Cy Young 
ATLANTA (AP) -Tom Glavine, who won 20 games and led the Braves to the first World Series in Atlanta's history, won the National League's Cy Young Award on Tuesday. 
The 25-year-old left-hander became the youngest pitcher to win the award since Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets did it at age 20 in 1985. 
''I'm excited. It hasn't really set in yet," Glavine said during a news conference at Atlanta­Fulton County Stadium. "In a couple of weeks it will probably hit me as to what happened." 
Glavine, the NL's starter in the All-Star game, was 20-11 with a 2.55 ERA. 
"I think I put up some pretty good numbers," he said. ''I'm just happy some other people recognized it. The only thing that could have made this year any better than this would have been winning the World Series." 
Glavine got 19 of 24 first­place votes and five second­place votes for 110 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. St. Louis Cardinals reliever Lee Smith, who led the majors with 47 saves, was second. Smith got four first-place votes, 12 seconds and four third-place votes for 60 points. 
John Smiley of the 
>ittsburgh Pirates, the only (Jther 20-game winner in the NL, finished third with four sHcond-place votes and 14 thirds for 26 points. 
Jose Rijo of the Cincinnati I{eds was fourth with one first-place vote, two second-place 
• Glavine Stats I page 13 
votes and two third-place votes for 13 points. 
"Getting this award ... puts me in some pretty select com pany," Glavine said. "Twenty­five years from now when I'm talking to my son or grandson, I can say I was the best pitcher in the National League one year." 
Glavine, the only pitcher named on all 24 ballots, be­came only the second Braves pitcher to win the award. The other was Warren Spahn, who did it in 1957 when the Braves were in Milwaukee. 
"It means an awful lot to be the first Atlanta Brave to get it," Glavine said. 
Glavine said he called his parents first after learning he had won. • 
"They've been sweating this out more than me," he said. 
Glavine, in his fourth full season with the Braves, tied Smiley for the league lea~ in victories, was third in ERA and first with nine complete games. 
His 246 2-3 innings were second behind Chicago's Greg Maddux (263) and his 192 strikeouts were third behind New York's David Cone (241) and Maddux (198). 
Glavine became the Braves first 20-game winner since Phil Niekro won 21 in 1979 and the winningest Braves left-hander since Spahn won 23 in 1963. 
Glavine, drafted by the Braves in the second round of 

AP Photo Atlanta Braves pitcher Tom Glavine, shown here pitching a shutout against the Dodgers, was announced as the winner of the National League Cy Young award. 
the June 1984 draft out of 1989 and 10-12 in 1990. In nine Billerica (Mass.) Memorial High starts as a rookie in 1987, he School, also was a fourth-round was 2-4. 
Reduce 

pick of the Los Angeles Kings of Glavine credits better control the NHL. of his changeup and an im-
Reuse

proved fastball for his success in He has a 53-52 career mark 1991. despite playing on last-place Smiley earned a $50,000 
Recycle

teams from 1988 through 1990. bonus for finishing third, raising He was 7-17 in 1988, 14-8 in his 1991 income to $1,425,000. 
~LQIED ~QUBIEI  ENGL  440A  01  1377  PHIL  246  01  2135  ~QUBIEI IHAI WILL BEQ~EH AI I:OO ~.M.  
ENGL  451A  01  3882  PHIL  261  01  2139  (IT MAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING)  
AERO  441L  01  0614 ENGL  453  01  3883  PHIL  265  01  0030  
AFAM 372  01  3048 ENGL  463Z  01  3884  RLST  240  21  9521  AFAM 372  01  3048  
AFAM 454  01  2997 ENGL  471  01·  3885  RLST 312  43  9543  ENGL  413A  01  3869  
ANTH  324  01  3434 ENGL  472Z  01  3886  RLST 312  45  9545  ENGL  415E  01  4002  
ANTH  389  01  3438 ENGL  473  01  3887  soc  324  01  3544  ENGL  4238  01  3877  
ANTH  431  01  3442 ENGL  479  01  3888  soc  421  01  3545  ENGL  472Z  01  3886  
ARHI  169  01  0735 ENGL  484  01  3889  soc  346  01  3027  ENGL  484  01  3889  
ARST  134S  01  0754 ENGL  490Z  01  3890  THEO  235  02  1820  
BA  391  03  2735 ENGL  493A  01  3891  THEO  235  01  2653  
BA  391  02  2736 ENGL  493C  01  2979  THEO  265  01  2661  CQUBIEI CAHCELLED  
BA  490  06  0850 ENGL  4978  01  0705  
BA  490  04  0848 ENGL  512  01  2719  liPS 478P 01 • 13984  
BA  490  01  0845 ENGL  562  01  3897  
BA  391  01  0264 ENGL  585  01  3899  
BA CLAS  490 427  05 01  0849 FIN 3427 FIN  231 361  02 06  1405 1430  CQUBIEI ADDED  
COTH ECON ECON  435 451 498  01 01 01  3978 FIN 1363 FIN 1173 GE  475 360 410  01 03 01  1440 1419 3043  LAW 630 01 · 14040 Admiralty; 2 cr. hra.; TH 10:00 • 1 0:50; Law atdta only LAW 6388 01 · 14041 Health Care Law; 3 cr. hra.; TH 04:00 · 05:15; Law atdta only  
ENGL  300A  01  3851  GSC  346  01  3028  
ENGL  3148  01  4022 GSC  472S  01  3265  
ENOL ENOL  3188 325  01 01  3855 GSC 3856 GSC  242 4238  01 01  3773 3766  ~QUBIE ~HAHGEI  
ENGL ENGL ENGL ENOL  328A 333 340T 340T  01 01 01 02  0012 GSC 3857 HIST 3858 HIST 3859 MGT  493A 342A 348A 231  01 01 01 04  3769 3480 3482 1860  CHEM 202 02 • 11047 change time toW 12:15 • 01:05 CHEM 236L 01 • 11052 change "also meets" time to MW 01:45 · 05:30 GOVT 482 01 • 13598 cour-has been changed to 485; all cour-data remain• the same  
ENGL  403  01  3867  MGT  231  06  1862  
ENOL  413A  01  3869  MGT  231  02  1858  
ENGL  415  01  3152  MGT  231  05  1861  
ENGL  415E  01  4002  MGT  231  01  1856  
ENOL  415Z  01  3871  MGT  488  01  3801  
ENGL  4168  01  3873  Ml  309  01  2995  
ENOL  416C  01  3874  Ml  333  01  3810  
ENOL  420A  01  3875  MSA  548  01  3805  
ENGL  422  01  3876  MSA  553  01  3804  
ENGL  4238  01  387-7  MSA  545  01  3803  
ENGL  4268  01  3256  MUS  220  02  2017  
ENGL  4288  01  3878  MUS  226  01  2024  
ENGL  434  01  3880  MUS  222  01  0105  

..----~---...........---~ ---~-------------------~ -­
--------·---~-----­
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, November 13, 1991 
Irish women earn MCC soccer honors 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team topped its most successful season by landing five players on the All-Midwest Collegiate Conference team as selected by the conference coaches, including MCC Player of the Year Stephanie Porter. 
The Irish sophomore tallied 16 goals and four assists to lead the MCC in scoring this season. Her 1991 performance set the Irish single-season record for most goals and most points (36). She is currently second, behind Susie Zilvitis, on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list. 
"I feel it is more of a team award," Porter said. "I think I got the award because of the number of goals I scored. They were a result of my teammates getting me the ball. It shows the success that comes from the team working together." 
Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli was selected as MCC's first-ever Coach of the Year for leading the Irish to a 15-2-3 record, a top 20 national rank­ing, and the inaugural MCC ti­tle. . 
"I think. this is a direct result of the season we had and the effort the players put forth," Petrucelli said. "I didn't score a goal all year, and I didn't keep one out all year. I feel the play­ers deserve the honor. 
Porter was joined on the All­MCC squad by teammates Jodi Hartwig, who scored nine goals and nine assists; Andrea Kurek, a standout on the Irish defense which held opponents to 0. 72 goals per game; Alison Lester, who was second on the team in scoring with nine goals and ten assists and goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga, who posted 11 shutouts and an Notre Dame record 0.54 goals against average. 
Hartwig also made the MCC All-Newcomer team along with fellow freshmen Jill Matesic and Tiffany Thompson, who both started all 20 games. 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
nize that if a teammate is open to give him the ball. and defen­sively, if someone is in trouble to get in there quickly, help out and support." 
One major change in the team's playing style is the switch from the variety of zone defenses employed last season under Digger Phelps to the 
NBA-style man-to-man which 
MacLeod has implemented. 
"The major difference is the amount of talking we have to do on defense," Bennett said. "In a zone you were able to just sit back. In the man-to-man, we have to attack and we really have to talk to each other." 
Despite a difficult schedule, 
which includes 11 games· 
against preseason top 25
' 
teams, MacLeod is optimistic and looking forward to the challenge. 
"It is a very tough sched­ule,"MacLeod commented, "but that is Notre Dame. We don't want to shy away from it; we want to be ready for it." 
American 
Red 
Cross 

MCC 
continued from page 20 
joined a men's basketball conference is that the administration and athletic department is unwilling to share revenue with other schools. Though the university is currently making a profit from men's basketball. decreasing attendance and a lack of post-season appearances might change that. Conference membership could possibly reverse these trends by increasing student interest and the opportunities for an NCAA berth. Even if the university loses money by joining a men's basketball conference, I think it would be money well spent because it would benefit the men's basketball program greatly. 
Some have argued that Notre Dame should join the Big East or the Great Midwest, which begins conference play this season. The Big East would most likely require ND to join as a football, as well as, a basketball member. Such an arrangement would do more harm than good to the sports program as a whole. Though longtime Irish rivals DePaul and Marquette belong to the Great Midwest, the conference could could encounter some problems before it becomes an established and well-respected nationally. 
The obvious choice is the Midwest Collegiate Conference, which Notre Dame already belongs to in all sports except men's basketball and football. Currently, the MCC only has six men's basketball teams, the NCAA minimum for an .automatic tournament bid for the conference champion, and is looking to expand. 
The argument about schedule freedom would be virtually non­applicable. Home-and-home series against the six MCC schools; Xavier, Dayton, Detroit, Evansville, Loyola(Ill.) and Butler; would result in 12 conference games. This season the Irish are playing seven games against MCC competition. In other words, they would only have five additional games against MCC teams. 1\vo of these games could be played by discontinuing home-and-home series with DePaul and Marquette, and only playing them once a year. 
MCC membership in men's basketball would give Notre Dame the best of both worlds. It would be a member of an established conference and would be able to qualify for the NCAAs through the MCC tournament or an at-large bid. Also, the Irish would still be able to play nationally ranked teams such as Duke and Syracuse on national television. 
It is time for Notre Dame to see the future of college basketball. The Irish are on a rapidly sinking ship known as the independents. Fortunately, there is a lifeboat there to rescue them, the MCC. The only thing the Irish have to do is abandon ship. 
ONLY YOU 

CAN PREVENT FORfSI FIRES. 


AHAPPY-21 B-DAYTO 
"THE JUDGE" 

·c-;;}QQJ;;~i!,-.!Q.;~Qt,;~~~~a~O::MX.Q;~~~~.;:w.;~ 

SPOR1S SHORTS 
run an annual charity yel:),r to raise funds for the hospital 

•wh<>'r·<> ti<> ,,.,.,_;;<;..,.....u. Palmer iS seeking a title sponsor, but Will all expenses for the event, including paying expense fees playel'$ and the use of the golf club. He is on the board of 
trtist.f,e.:s at the bosp*t~l. wh~eh is planning a $26.7 million rmtpa:u~:>JI(.JU. Palmer's 1992 skins game will feature Curtis Strange, Chi. Rodriguez, Dow Finsterwald and Palmer. The event will d,e an 18-hole scramble for 100 amateUl'$, Palmer plans 
•. · t ... the skins game among area courses, including Laurel Valley (;ountry Oub, former site of the U.S. Seniors Open. 
....,:@# 

-· unlikely sporting fiopp~d in tl1e. ski jUlnP at tile 1988 Calgary Olympics, declared bankrupt. Edwards, a 27 -year-old plasterer, . cult figure when he entered the Olympic competition as only.ski jumper and. finished last. He was much in ldl~rtllU1d as afceh;,brit)tafter the Games, and at one stage was ~:un·nh1D $144.500 a year in appearance fees. Edwards spent his Il1oney training to improve his skiing. He was bati.ktup~ atlJediord, (;ounty Court on Monday, owing 
.• $200.000 after an application by the Inland Revenue, he owed them thousands inback taxes. 
The ARTS AND LETTERS BUS INESS SOCIETY Presents: 
Mr. Patrick McBride Vice President, National Sales Schwarz Paper Company 
speak i no on: the advantage of 1i bera 1 arts experience in the business world 

W·ednesday, November 1 3 
6:30pm to 7:30pm Foster Room, LaFortune everyone is we1come! 

DIDN'T WORK.ProFESSOR 
SAID I HAD NO TALENT. 


Klft~S·llff COPYC.fNTER-/8/87 STATE RD.23 (211) Zll-0318 ·FRE:r COPIES '!¥JJ.20 · COMP!.Elt DEV.IL'HT STORE" 

MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Meatloaf Grilled Chicken Breast Grilled Thrbot Spaghetti w/Sauce Cheese Tortellini Vegi Crepe w/Orient Sauce w/Marinara Sauce Deli Bar 
--------------------------COUNSELOR'S CORNER
CROSSWORD 
~;;~~~~~~;=;;;;;;;;;;~=;~;;=;~;;=;;;;---------------------------------Dear Counselor, 

DOWN 

1 Type of candy2 Famous vocal group3 Talk at length4 Dickerson of NFL 5 Uses a phone 6 Drives a11ay 7 ----shark 8 Third most common 
written word 9 Aromatic spice 10 More frightening 
11 Landed estate 12 -France 13 ----fac1 e 14 Former footwear 19 Retaining wall 22 Cattle thief 24 Having feeling 26 Hindu attire 28 Mass ---­30 Meadow 31 Trigonometry 

abbreviation 33 Rower 34 Worker at Tiffany's 35 Not knowing 37 Lab worker 38 Comforts 39 Toystore mer­
chandise 40 Ways' partner 42 Grooms, in India 44 House need 

1 Like zoo animals Philadelphia 53 Greed 45 Roof edge
55 Waitresses, e.g. 56 Agents of retri­6 Hits 31 Caruso, for one 48 Coffin stand 
11 Dreaded disease 32 Arboreal animals 49 Appoint
(2 wds.) bution 52 Tennessee power
13 Language-related 34 Famous Child 57 Raises project
subject 58 Cults 54-room15 "The -Ni hts" 36 Madmen 16 Travel need {2 wds) 39 Chromosomal 17 Arrest material 18 Clear and shrill 40 Mal rlP ---­20 Pitcher's statistic 41 A musketeer 21-the Tentmaker -43 Wage----of words 23 Mu(ical-note parts 44 Thick 24 In a ----(angry) 46 Wriggling25 Uncle ----47 Feline sound 27 Egg cells 48 Canoeist, e.o. 
How do you tell someone you have a boyfriend when you've just met him and only think be might be interested In you (but are pretty sure). I am starting to be friends with him but the subject of "boyfriends" hasn't come up. Saying,"HI, I'm Debbie, and I have a boyfriend • sounds silly and con­ceited. I don't like to be accused of leading someone on when I just want to be friends from the start! 
What's a good approach? 
Lost for Words 

Dear Lost, 
Oh, the trauma and trials of relationships. I was recently sitting with a group of students talking about relationships. The word •confusing• came up on five different occasions during the conversation! When you start adding up the men­tal cost of thinking about what he might be thinking plus what they might be thinking about what you're doing plus you own self-consciousness over why you'd ever think he thought that, you have the makings of a severe brain cramp. Let's just say that all this relationship negotiation stuff is potentially exhausting and can consume our time. 
So how do you handle your particular pickle? First of all, it sounds a bit like you're worried about being on trial with the potential spoken or unspoken ·accusations.· That is a courtroom you actually don't have to enter. You are not re­sponsible to gauge your actions to all the possible ways naive onlookers might misconstrue them. In the end, it's none of their business why you might be friendly to a male. Second, it seems like some of your "lostness· deals with protecting the heart and ego of this man. This, too, can keep you really busy but Is actually not your job In life. This man can be completely capable of handling his attraction and your response. So, if you like being a friend with this guy, and know what that means for you, the ego and judgments of others are not for you to tiptoe around. You've probably got too much else to keep your brain busy. 
Counselor's Corner is written by the psychologists at the University Counseling Center. Letters can be submitted to Counselor's Corner c/o The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

IiiCi 1-1 L ICi liTIn Ci ~UI3 
come Join Tl-tE !;UI3 open 1-tOU!;E SE"EnTH SICJn 

TJ.IUJ'l~Oqy
In LqFORTUnE on 
no"Oemee!'l 1.0:

no"emaeR 1< FROm 11-!!'» 
SILence OF THE

mq11e YOU~ OCDn \)IDEO 
LqmesFREE 1-IICHLICHTER!; ~qTUFlDqY
FFliOqy b no.,emeel'l 1!'> tr 16 
CET 


~J.IOQ)n In CU~J.IInO qUOITOJ'liUm 
qomiSSJOn IS $1 
. 

& pm tt 1111:3111 pm 
STUDENT UNION BQ.6.RD 

~-~ 

~-­
f 
Sports 
page 20 

Men's basketball home opener tonight Macleod and crew ready with new defense, fast pace 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
Gone from the JACC are zone defense; boring, slow-paced of­fense and the green carnation. They have been replaced by a tough man-to-man defense; ex­citing, up-tempo offense and a coach with 18 years of NBA ex­perience. 
The John MacLeod era begins tonight as the Irish take on Bayreuth (Germany) at 7:30 
p.m. in the first of their three exhibition games before the regular season opener against Butler on November 26. ~ 
"We want to see how we're going to respond against an­other team," MacLeod said. "This will be good competition for us. They are a seasoned, experienced team that has al­ready played a lot of games. It will be interesting to see how we respond." 
MacLeod expects to give ev­eryone some playing time, but does not know how much. The starting five will mix a lot of experience with a bit of youth as it consists of four seniors and a freshman. 
The starting center will be 6'11" senior Keith Tower, who averaged 7.9 points and 7.0 re­bounds per game last season. LaPhonso Ellis, who averaged 
16.4 points and 10.5 rebounds per game in a half a season in 1990-91, returns to the team as the power forward, and freshman Billy Taylor will get the nod at small forward. 
The backcourt consists of two seniors, Daimon Sweet and 
Daimon Sweet 

Elmer Bennett. Sweet was the Irish's most consistent scorer last year when he averaged 
16.3 points per game and be­came their leading scorer after Ellis was declared academically ineligible. Bennett, who aver­aged 14.4 points and 4.6 assists per game, is switching from shooting to point guard this season. 
"It has been a smooth transi­tion. Neither the change in po­sition, nor the change in sys­tems has been very hard," Bennett said. 
The big surprise in the start­ing lineup is Taylor. The 6'4" forward/guard from Aurora, Ill. was a USA Today honorable mention All-American selection as a high school senior, when he 17.2 points and 7.3 re­bounds per game. 
"Billy Taylor has been a pleasant surprise, and he has proved that he is worthy of a [starting] spot," MacLeod commented. "He is going to be a two-position player for us. He'll play [small forward], and he will also go back behind Daimon and play some two guard." 
Irish basketball should join conference 
While looking through Street & Smith's College/Prep Basketball issue I came across a group of eight schools which included such national college basketball powerhouses as the College of Charleston, Youngstown State, and Chicago State. 
Thinking it was yet another newly-formed, 
obscure conference, I was about to turn 
the page when a very familiar name MIKE SCRUDATO caught my eye-Notre Dame. What are the Sports Writer Irish doing here? I wondered. Why are they grouped with Missouri-Kansas City and Wisconsin-Milwaukee? 


With Southern Utah and UNC-Greensboro, a Division II school last year. These schools sound like the teams the number 16 seeds had to beat in order to qualify for the NCAA tournament. 
The answer was right there in black and white, staring me right in the face. Unfortunately, it was not pretty. Notre Dame and the aforementioned seven schools are the only Division I independents left in the country. 
A large number of conferences, including the nationally renown Northeast Conference, now have more members than the once­mighty independents. Almost all of the independents both large, DePaul, and small, Nicholls State, have aligned themselves with conferences. Why not Notre Dame? 
I can think of a couple of reasons why not, but none of them make any sense. 
One is that being an independent gives the Irish the freedom to put together a schedule without worrying about conference commitments. I can understand the reasoning of this argument when it is applied to football, a sport in which Notre Dame is one of the top teams in the country. This gives the Irish to play other top teams. 
However, in men's basketball, Notre Dame is no longer the national power it once was. Being an independent is damaging, not benefitting the men's basketball program. It is forcing the Irish to play too many top teams, most of them on the road. This season they play seven preseason top 25 teams away from the JACC. 
The reason for this being is that Notre Dame must play and compile a winning record against a tough schedule in order to be considered for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. A conference would allow the Irish to get into the tournament by winning a conference tournament as well as giving them a chance at an at-large bid. 
The other possible explanation of why Notre Dame has not 
see MCC/ page 18 

MacLeod believes that this year's team will not r~evolve around the starting five, but the whole team. He thinks ev­eryone will play a role on the team. 
Sophomores Carl Cozen, Joe and Jon Ross and Brooks Boyer are all expected to contribute. 
"I like what they've done, and they've worked very hard," MacLeod said. "We expect them to respond and get better as the season goes on." 
The new coach also believes the other freshmen; Nathion Gilmore, Lamarr Justice, Malik Russell and Jason Williams; will be a benefit to the team. 
"The freshmen have shown a lot of talent and are showing continuous improvement," MacLeod said. "Going from the high school to the collegiate level is a major adjustment, but they have adjusted well. It's now a matter of them picking up the system, relaxing and ex­ecuting." 
This season's squad also contains two walkons, junior Matt Adamson, who saw play­ing time in eight games last year, and sophomore Brendan Tully, who was selected from a group of 35 candidates in this year's tryouts. 
Though MacLeod's goal for the season reaching the NCAA tournament, he is much more concerned with focusing on one game at a time, starting with Beyreuth and continuing throughout the season. 
"Our short-term goal is to execute and carry out the as­signments we've been working on for the last three weeks," MacLeod said. "I want us to ex­ecute plays, defend and recog­
see HOOPS I page 18 


Wednesday, November 13, 1991 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Senior Keith Tower will be a presence under the boards this year for the Irish. The center averaged 7 rebounds per game last year. 
Holtz and team still recovering 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz has heard the plati­tude that time heals all wounds. 
And while he admits that the stunning 35-34 Irish loss at the hands of Tennessee was as dis­appointing for him Tuesday as it was Saturday, he is unsure how quickly the team will re­bound from the heartbreaking home loss. 
"The football team will come back," said Holtz. "I worry about how well we'll play and whether we'll be good enough against Penn State. Everything in my life has turned out for the betterment, and this will also. This will come out being good for us. Something good is going to come out of this." 
Despite the difficulty of the loss, Holtz indicated that the coaches would maintain the same even-keel approach which they had used all season. 
"We aren't going to give them self-pity," said Holtz. "I think we've got competitors on the football team and it doesn't matter what the situation is. It's like 'Mission Impossible.' This is your assignment, if you choose ·to accept it. Unfortunately the tape isn't going to self-destruct in fifteen seconds." 
"The fact remains that you make a commitment to be the best you can be, and if our players aren't ready to play the football game on Saturday they don't belong in a Notre Dame uniform and I sure don't belong as the Notre Dame coach. I hope I can get that across to the players, but I don't think I have to." 
Aside from issues of mental preparedness, Holtz is also searching for a consistent de­fense. 
"People spread us out," said Floltz. "I think our secondary playing pretty well, but Tennessee had been a two-back offense. Later in the game-same as most teams we've played-they got into a single back. So they split us out and we can't stop the run on a consistent basis, which puts too much pressure on the sec­ondary. 
"The other major concern is we just can't get a pass rush without blitzing. That has cre­ated a lot of our problems, be­cause then you have to blitz, and if you blitz enough times it's just a matter of time 'til you get burned. It's hard to play man, free-coverage or anything else if you can't force the quar­terback to throw the ball off rhythm." 
Against the Irish, Tennessee quarterback Andy Kelly was 24-38 for 259 yards with one interception and three touch­downs. Notre Dame has given up an average of 183.2 passing yards per game, and an aver­age of 372.4 yards of total of­fense per game this season. 
Holtz also responded to ques­tions of whether the Irish would 
accept their reportedly forthcoming Sugar Bowl bid (played in New Orleans) were · David Duke, a former member of the Ku Klux Klan, to be 
elected governor of Louisiana. 
"I can tell you how I feel as 
an individual, and I've told our 
squad this," commented Holtz. 
"We don't use the Notre Dame 
football team to promote any 
cause. We aren't going to wear 
any patches on our sleeves 
saying we're for gay rights or 
anti-abortion. We go where 
Notre Dame tells us to go. 
"I have my personal political 
feelings on David Duke's past 
and his philosophy, but as far 
as that, if you don't go, does 
that solve it? Does that change 
it? Does that correct it? Does 
that rectify it? 
"I don't think that any politi­
cal affair in a particular state 
should have a bearing on an 
athletic contest any more than 
I think that politics belongs in 
the Olympics," concluded 
Holtz. 
Craig Hentrich, who injured 
his ankle scrambling to recover 
a blocked field goal against 
Tennessee, is out for an indefi­
nite period of time. 
In his absence, Jim Sexton 
will handle the punting chores. 
Sexton was punter on the 1988 
national championship team, 
averaging 38 yards per kick. 
Meanwhile, sophomore walk­
on Rob Leonard, walk-on Drew 
Marsh, and quarterback Rick 
Mirer, who was a placekicker 
see LOU/page 14 





