
VOL. XXIII NO. 112 WEDNESDAY , MARCH 20 1991 
• THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAR'f'S 

Marines honored 
Former Marine Corps POWs are awarded medals by Marine Corps Comandant Gen. Alfred Gray at a cer­emony at Bethesda Naval Medical Center near Washington, Saturday. 

Kuwaiti cabinet resigns as national rebuilding begins 
UNITED NATIONS (APJ ­Kuwait's Cabinet resigned Tuesday in a move intended to bring in new officials as the na­tion rebuilds from nearly seven months of Iraqi occupation, the emirate's U.N. ambassador said. 
Ambassador Mohammad Ab­ulhasan said the prime minister submitted the resignations, which were immediately ac­cepted by the emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah. 
Abulhasan said the new Cabi­net should be named in about a week. "This is the first step in putting the house in order," he said. 
He declined to speculate if the Cabinet reshuffling was in re­sponse to demands by some Kuwaitis for greater democracy. The ruling family abolished Parliament in 1986. 
"When you have martial law. you need to change the gov­ernment to cope with critical situation that is now facing Kuwait," said Abulhasan. 
Kuwaiti officials have de­clared martial law to restore security in the wake of the Iraqi retreat from allied forces late last month. 
Many Kuwaitis have criticized the government for how it has handled the start of the postwar reconstruction. Kuwait's once oil-rich economy now suffers from widespread shortages. 
Estimates on the cost of re­building Kuwait have ranged from $100 billion to $500 bil­lion. 
Earlier this week, Kuwait's crown prince and prime minis­ter, Saad Abdullah al-Sabah, came under intense questioning from visiting U.S. congressmen about his government's com­mitment to democracy. 
The prince put security first as a government priority, then reconstruction, and later politi­cal change. He said Kuwait is not a dictatorship and that Par­liament will be restored, but he gave no timetable for political reform. 


Ex-gang members discuss violence 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
Eight young men from Chicago's Cabrini Green hous­ing project spoke at Notre Dame last night concerning their experiences as gang members. 
The gang members were ac­companied by three brothers whose order, the Brothers and Sisters of Love. serves in the housing projects of Chicago. Brother Bill Tomes, a Notre Dame graduate, said the brothers "try to represent Jesus and his love for people." 
The gang members ranged in age from 19 to 24. Brother Tomes said, "A good number of them have been shot three times and even five times." He brought with him pictures of 85 young people who have been murdered in the projects in which the brothers serve. 
Brother Tomes knew many of the victims personally and told how some of them were killed. One young girl was killed as she jumped rope outside her home while a young man was shot as he tried to break up a fight. Brother Tomes said, "We go through a lot of grief and pain." 
The gang members said they had been members of their gang, the Disciples, from a young age. They said that they were influenced by older mem­bers whom they encountered every day. 
One member said, "While you're young, you see older guys doing it, and they have money. It's all about power, who got the most money. If you got money, you got power, and you're the man." 
However, they insisted that no one forced them to join a gang. A member said, "If we wanted out, we could get out. We're not doing it unwillingly, but because we want to." An­other member said, "If you don't want no trouble, you don't get no trouble." 
This visit to Notre Dame is the third for the Disciples. Brother Tomes said that the gang members' previous trips had made a deep impression and several of them have since acquired jobs. During their previous visits they visited with Lou Holtz and Digger Phelps and attended closed practices. 

Brother Tomes said, "I have seen a real change (in the gang members) since coming to Notre Dame." 
The gang members were quick to condemn the police. They claimed that abuses of power such as the recently publicized beating in Los .Ange­les are commonplace. A mem­ber said, "The police do not serve and protect," while an­other insisted, "There are no good cops." Members said that police "beat you for nothing" and tortured gang members. 
The gang members claimed that police would drop them ofT in territory controlled by a rival gang if they refused to answer questions. They also accused police of involvement with drugs, saying that police are the source of much of the drug problem. 
When asked about the influ­ence of rap music, the gang members said that it did not in­fluence their actions and is merely an accurate depiction of life in the inner city. 
One of the brothers said, "It is more likely to be a reflection of what is going on than con­vincing people to do one thing or another." He said that cam­paigns to institute restrictions on what albums minors can buy "denies what goes on" and "pushes the problem under­ground." 
The young men said that most of them have jobs and have forsaken violence. One member said, "We're older now, we work and don't get involved with violence." They said gang violence is usually a problem with youth, but "you grow out of it." 
The forum was sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
Uprisings in Iraq continue amid anti-Saddam rioting 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) ­Kurdish rebels are driving the last Iraqi loyalist soldiers from oil-rich Kirkuk, and anti-gov­ernment rioting has spread to Iraq's largest northern city, nlbel officials said Tuesday. 
In thll south, where Shiite rebels also battled to topple the regime of President Saddam llussllin, both rebels and gov­ernment spokespeople claimed their side held the Shiite holy cities of Najaf and Karbala. 
Both sides also made appeals that seemed at odds with their past claims-the rebels' asser­tions of battlefield victories and the Baghdad regime's declara­tions that foreign agents were carrying out the revolt which began days after allied forces recaptured Kuwait. 
Using the state-controlled press, the Iraqi government urged citizens to remain loyal and pledged to carry out demo­cratic reforms promised by Saddam in a weekend speech. 
"Close ranks behind the lead­ership to overcome the dilemma," said an editorial in the government-run AI-Thawra newspaper. 
Saadi Mehdi Saleh, speaker of the National Assembly, was quoted in another daily, Al­lraq. as saying that "before too long" a new constitution and a multiparty political system would be in place. 
From Damascus, Jalal Tala­bani, a leader of the Iraqi Kur­distan Front, sought foreign in­tervention to support the Kur­dish revolt, claiming Iraqi troops were using napalm and phosphorus bombs to crush the rebellion. 
'1In a vile and desperate at­tempt to stamp out the growing popular uprising against his tyranny, Saddam Hussein per­sists with the ruthless born-bardment of civilians," he said, describing its as "a calamity being inflicted on the Iraqi peo­ple." 


Talabani's charges about na­palm echoed comments of sev­eral other Kurdish and Shiite rebel leaders in recent days, but White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said in Washington there was no proof napalm was being used by Iraqi forces. 
The World Health Organiza­tion reported that more than 30,000 Iraqi refugees have crossed into southern Iran to escape fighting. Many wounded and burned refugees were transferred to the Iranian city of Ahvaz, 75 miles northeast of Basra, said Therese Gastaut, a spokeswoman for the agency in Geneva. 
She said many of the people who fled Basra ended up in ar­eas of Iran still recovering from devastation suffered during the 1980-88 war with Iraq. 
In other Gulf War-related de­velopments: 
•Kuwait 
announced it will re­open its banks on Sunday and issue new money to replace $2 billion of gold and currency looted by the Iraqis. 

•
A prosecutor said Kuwait will seek to hang most of the 600 Iraqi, Palestinian and other 



prisoners now being held for alleged war crimes. 
•Muslim 
scholars said a split has developed between Iranian Shiite Muslim clerics and Iraqi Shiites over apparent moves by the Iranians to take control of the anti-Saddam uprising. Dif­ferences center on theological rivalry between Shiite clerics in Najaf, one of the sect's holiest shrines, and the Iranian reli­gious center of Qom. 

•The 
Shiite Dawa Party in Lon­don issued a statement saying Iraqi forces fired Scud missiles at Najaf, killing 2,000 people. It said army troops persist in us­ing helicopter gunships against rebels in Kirkuk "despite warnings from the allied forces that such actions are contrary to the cease-fire." 


President Bush warned Iraq last week about using hell-
see Iraq/ page 9 


page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame needs co-ed housing Notre Dame will be------­celebrating its 20th anniversary as a co-ed institution next year. During the past 20 years many changes have occurred in the relationship between men and women on this campus, but despite these Lisa Eaton changes Notre Dame has Managing Editor remained a backward university in its approach to co-education. Not many universities in this country could boast about 25 single sex dorms that house 4 out of 5 of their undergraduate students. Not many universities would want to. Notre Dame being what it is has been very slow to change its outdated attitude towards co-ed housing. I believe that it is time for the university to do more than simply form committees to discuss this issue. Notre Dame owes its students the opportunity to live in a healthy and normal environment. As it stands now, I feel that the university is denying its students access to this opportunity. Normal, healthy friendships develop most easily through proximity. It has been proven that people are most likely to become close to those who they see in the casual and relaxed atmosphere of their "home." The manner in which the dorms are organized at this university automatically restricts by gender the people that one has the opportunity to get to know. This situation has manifested itself in the social skills that many students on this campus possess. It is a well-known fact of college life that the prime time for "bonding" between friends is the hours of the night when everyone is trying to avoid piles of homework. Single-sex dorms do not make it very easy for a man and a woman spontaneously to hang-out together because someone must always be "the visitor." Notre Dame does not provide the type of living situation for its students where they are able to learn to be comfortable dealing with members of the opposite sex. The real world does not segregate itself by gender, so why should Notre Dame? College should be a time when students are supposed to get a taste of the real world and learn skills that will help them when they graduate. All of the textbooks in the world are not going to do any good if ND students do not graduate with social skills which enable them to integrate themselves into a society composed of both men and women. The current state of living on this campus is not conducive to acquiring these skills. I have recently returned from a visit with friends in the London program where co-ed housing is part of everyday life; the difference between their living situation and the one at Notre Dame is enormous. Healthier and more normal relationships grow out of co-ed housing. Students deal with each other as people, instead of as men or women. This is how it should be. Notre Dame needs to start making a serious commitment to improving the housing situation of its students. Twenty years has been to long to wait for a healthy and well­adjusted campus. The opinions expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer.  
Tuesday's Staff News Sports L. PeterYob Dave McMahon David Kinney Anthony King Paul Pearson Alicia Reale Graphics Production Jake Frost Lisa Bourdon Mike Muldoon Accent Kristin t.ynch Brendan Regan John Fischer Paige Smoron VIewpoint Circulation Rich Riley Ad DesignBill O'Rourke Doug Bronsing Matt Novak Systems Traci Hupp Mark Sloan Kevin Hardman Mike Murphy Amy Eckert Lisa Gunsorek The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Refugees brawl jn Sweden 
• ST CKHOLM, Sweden -A quarrel at a pool table escalated into a raucous brawl among more than 100 Somali and Lebanese refugees, police said Tuesday. Six people were injured Monday night as the two groups battled with chairs, boards, stones and other weapons in the camp, about 185 miles south of Stockholm, police said. One person was arrested. Windows of the building were shattered, but the pool table was intact. The fight began after a Lebanese refugee was stabbed in the stomach and hit over the head in an argument involving the pool table, Swedish television reported. 
NATIONAL Teen ~re~nancies down in Minnesota 
• WA1"11 GTON -Pregnancies in girls under 18 seem to have declined in Minnesota in the wake of a parental-notification abortion law, at least for the first few years the statute was in effect, a study shows. The study found that the average abortion rate for girls ages 15-17 during the four years after the law was passed in August 1981 was 28 percent under the average rate for the three years before enactment. The birth rate during this time also declined. The results support the theory that "conception among minor women may be reduced immediately following enactment of parental notification legislation when migratory abortion across state lines is not a viable alternative," said the study in the March issue of the American Journal of Public Health. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
SEA Pre-Cycling Campaign and the National Energy Strategy will hold a rally today at 12:20 on Field­house Mall. 

• 
Hospitality Program Members are reminded of the important meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Arrangements for April hosting will be discussed-bring your calendar!! 

•1992 
Sophomore Literary Festival will be ac­cepting applications for committee positions between now and March 27th. Applications may be picked up at the SUB desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 

• 
FAST member volunteers are still needed for Starlight Express. Please call Joanne at 239-7497, or 271­


Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
FORECAST: 
Mildoday with highs near 60. Cloudy Thursday with a 40 percent of showers. Highs in the upper 50s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  63  50  
Atlanta  66  41  
Berlin  54  36  
Boston  50  43  
Ch1cago  49  32  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  70  47  
Denver  64  37  
Detroit  42  37  
Honolulu  74  68  
Houston  71  44  
Indianapolis  49  36  
London  59  48  
Los Angeles  67  49  
Madrid  64  46  
Miami Beach  86  69  
Moscow  37  19  
70  53  
50  43  
57  52  
53  42  
49  38  
64  48  
56  44  
61  48  
54  30  
61  45  
57  46  

INDIANA 

Protesters want honor taken away 
• INDIANAPOLIS-A group of protesters have demanded that the Indianapolis Police Department's highest honor be taken from an officer who shot and killed a suspect. "We have to turn out and change some laws," said state Rep. William. Crawford, D-Indianapolis, at a rally at the police headquarters Monday. "It's very unfortunate that I have to stand out here today and protest another insult to the citizens of Indianapolis." The protesters said they were angry about the Medal of Valor that was given to Patrolman Scott Haslar, who shot and killed robbery suspect Leonard Barnett Jr. last July 9. 
CAMPUS Roemer hosts community breakfast 
• Notre Dame-James A. Roemer, director of community relations at the Universty of Notre Dame, will chair the 20th annual Community Prayer Breakfast May 3 in the Great Hall of South Bend's Century Center. Roemer, a native of South Bend, served as city attorney for South Bend, deputy prosecutor for St. Joseph County and attorney for South Bend's redevelopment department before coming to Notre Dame as general counsel. He served the University as dean of students for nine years before assuming his present position. Roemer's wife, the former Mary Ann Earle of Mishawaka, is coordinator of senior and alumni programs in Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. Tickets for the May 3 Community Prayer Breakfast may be purchased for $15 each by calling Notre Dame's Office of Community Relations at 239-6614. 
0488 if you can help. 
• 
Applications for the position of Assistant to the Judicial Council President are now available from the Stu­dent Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. Appli­cations are due Wednesday, March 27. 

• 
A natural family planning information meeting will be held April 2 from 7-8 p.m. in the Education Center of St. Joseph's Medical Center, South Bend. Natural family planning classes for engaged and married couples will begin April 11 in St. Mark's room on the fourth floor of the St. Joseph's Medical Center. The classes will meet from 7-10 p.m. To register or receive more information, call237-7401. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 18, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
200.66 • 2.65
177.07 Million S&P COMPOSITE .Fa... 
366.59 V7 5.52 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,867.82 {}62.13 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD .. $1.20 to $ 364.50/oz. SILVER -0'-8.3¢ to$ 4.021/oz. 

• 
In 1900: Secretary of State John Hay announced that European powers agreed to keep China's doors open to trade. 

•In 
1920: Bolsheviks attacked Finland on a 1,500­mile-long front. 

• 
In 1931: The U.S. Federal Council of Churches ap­proves limited birth control. 

• 
In 1953: Nikita Krushchev took over as secretary of the Soviet Union's Communist Party. 

• 
In 1971: Irish Premier James Clark resigned under pressure from Protestants. 

• 
Five years ago: The House of Representatives rejected President Reagan's $1 00 million aid package for Nicaragua's contras. 


-·~---·----------~-------­
~-·--·-----·------------··---­
Wednesday, March 20,1991 The Observer page 3 


Special to the Observer 
Tlu~ 11th anniversary of the martyrdom of Archbishop Osear Homr.ro of San Salvador will be observed at the Univer­sity of Notw Damr. with events this week: 
•A Mass will be celebrated at Sacrr.d Heart Church today at 
5: 15 p.m. Father Hobert Pelton, director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry at Notrr. Dame, will preside. Fa­thnr David Kelly will be the homilist for the Mass. Kelly, who is on sabbatical at NO, teaches theology at the arch­dloeesan seminary in San Sal­vador. 
•Tonight, Father Paul Tipton, president of the Association of .ltlsuit Colleges and Universities, will give a lecture titled "The 1989 Jesuit Martyrs of El Sal­vador" at 8 p.m. in the Keenan/Stanford chapel. 
Tipton has been involved in the investigation of the murder of six Jesuit priests and two employees of the University of Central America (UCA). 
A month after the murders, Tipton took custody of Lucia Barrera de Cerna, a witness of the killings, and her family. Ac­cording to a letter which Tipton wrote to Secretary of State James Baker. de Cerna. also a UCA employee, was abused and manipulated during an exhausting interrogation by 
U.S. and Salvadoran officials. 
Last month, a committee in the Spanish parliament accused the armed forces of El Salvador and the U.S. government of de­liberately obstructing the legal investigation of the murders. 
•Tomorrow, Terry Karl, as­sociate professor of political science and director of the Cen­ter for Latin American Studies at Stanford University, will speak on "Contemporary Impli­cations of the Life and Death of Archbishop Romero" at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. 
Karl has done research and writing on U.S. policy toward Central America and has pre­pared more then 150 affidavits for political asylum trials. 
•On March 24 at 2 p.m. there will be an ecumenical prayer service in memory of Arch­bishop Romero at the crosses on the lawn in front of Holy Cross College on Highway 31/33. 

Romero's unprecedented de­nunciations of the atrocities committed by the government and military forces of El Sal­vador and his plea to President Jimmy Carter to cut off Ameri­can military aid to his nation made him an internationally prominent spokesman for hu­man rights. He also refused to endorse the violence of the Sal­vadoran rebels, became inti­mate with the Salvadoran poor, and urged Salvadoran soldiers to disobey immoral orders. 
On March 24, 1980, while cel­ebrating Mass in the chapel of Divine Providence Hospital in San Salvador, Romero was shot and killed by a gunman from one of El Salvador's right-wing death squads. 
The Romero anniversary ob­servances at ND are sponsored by the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, the Office of Campus Ministry, Keenan and Pasquerilla East residence halls, the Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies and the Helen Kellogg Institute. 
Experts to discuss · Soviet reforms at ND 
By L. PETER YOB 
News Writer 
Last Sunday, in what may stand out as a turning point in the history of the Soviet Union, citizens of that country's republics voted on the question of remaining unified. 
On Thursday, three experts on Soviet Federalism will be at Notre Dame to discuss the im­pact of this referendum. The experts will take part in a sym­posium on federalism in the So­viet Union, to be held at the ND Law School. 
Igor Grazin, a member of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. and a visiting law professor at Notre Dame, will discuss his views on the future of Soviet federalism. Grazin is from Estonia, one of the three Baltic Republics that are seeking in­dependence from the Soviet Union. 
He will be joined by Walter White, a member of Quarles & Brady, a Milwaukee law firm. White is a member of the American Bar Association sec­tion of International Law and Practice. White is an expert on Soviet federalism who, in the past, has traveled to the Soviet Union to observe elections. 

Also attending the symposium is Leon Lipson, the Henry R. Luce professor at Yale. Lipson is expected to deliver a paper at the symposium for publication in Notre Dame's Journal of Legislation. 
Uncertainty concerning the impact of the Soviet vote re­mains, primarily because many of the Soviet Republics seeking to secede from the Union boy­cotted the vote. 
The symposium will be mod­erated by Professor John At­tanasio of the Notre Dame Law School. Attanasio was away from Notre Dame as a visiting law professor in Moscow last 
year. 
The symposium will be held in the Jaw school courtroom from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. on Thursday, with a break from noon until 1 p.m. for lunch. Those interested are welcome to attend all or part of the symposium. 
Irish Accent seeks dorm Ctonations at HPC meeting 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Doug Heberle of Irish Accent made a plea at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night for monetary donations from individual dorms which would assist the Accent's production of a comedy skit titled "The Boys Next Store." 
The show will take place April 5th, 6th, 12th, and 13th in North Dining Hall. Tickets are $10 each and available in advance at the LaFortune information desk. The proceeds of the show will benefit the Logan Center. 
Also on the agenda, Brigid Cronley spoke briefly about Senior Month 1991. This annual booklet is accepting ads from any and all dorms that wish to publicly recognize their graduating seniors. 

Finally, Ted Stumpf and Ed Keener announced the agenda for the fifth annual Fisher Regatta, to take place April 20th. This year the event will occur on the far side of Saint Mary's Lake, taking advantage of Holy Cross Hall's recent demolition. 
Dorms may enter as many vessels as they wish, but the entry fee for each ship is twenty dollars. The Regatta, now a traditional test of seamanship among all the dorms, is also selling T-shirts this week in both dining halls. 
'""MOrCh of Dimes 
~ BlllJH..DEFECTS FOUNDATION 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Critics demand L.A. chief's ouster after police beating 


BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) -Twenty-one police officers were involved in the beating of a motorist captured on video­tape, not 15 as previously ac­knowledged, a Police Depart­ment official said Tuesday. 
The spokesman, Lt. Fred Nixon, was reacting to a statement earlier Tuesday by lawyer Steven Lerman that 25 officers were at the scene of the March 3 beating of his client, Rodney King. 
Lerman also said King wants to sue for $56 million -$1 million for each blow inflicted. He told a news conference his investigators had enhanced the amateur videotape of the beat­ing and said he now believes as many as 25 officers were in­volved. 
"This is going to get a lot bigger and a lot badder before it's over," Lerman said. 
Nixon said the new depart­ment figure fits with Lerman's number of 25 because Lerman was including other agencies' officers. 
"In identifying additional of­ficers at the scene we have not identified any additional offi­cers who are as prominently in­volved as the officers who have already been indicted by the grand jury," Nixon said. 
He declined to say what changed the figures, other than to say that the investigation was continuing and that new facts come out as they go along. 
• 

California's Assembly speaker, the Los Angeles Times and the county's largest union joined the calls on Tuesday for the city police chiefs ouster be­cause of the beating of King, who is black. 
In an editorial, the Los Ange­les Times called for Chief Daryl Gates to quit "not because of legal necessity -there is none -but because of moral wis­dom." 
But Gates was steadfast in his refusal to resign, Nixon said. "His decision to remain here and restore the luster is unchanged," he said. 
The anti-Gates chorus was strengthened by the release Monday of computer messages exchanged by officers involved in beating the motorist during a traffic stop in the Lake View Terrace section March 3. A neighborhood resident video­taped the attack. 
Critics said the transcript of the computer messages dis­proved Gates' contention that the beating was "an aberra­tion." In one exchange, a mes­sage from a patrol car said: "I haven't beaten anyone this bad in a long time." 


meled the 25-year-old King otl Altadena following a car chase that originally involved the California Highway Patrol. King, who was unarmed, was struck with police batons, kicked and shocked with an electric stun gun. 
King suffered a broken right eye socket and 11 broken bones. 
Lerman said he believed as many as 25 people may have been involved because patrol cars allegedly came and went during the beating. Lerman said a helicopter hovered over­head. 
"They almost beat his mind out of his head. King now re­members somewhat better 
"'" .. ...... ... ... ... -.. .., •. .. ~ .. " ·. ~ . . ':.. 
what happened to him," Ler­man said. 
Lerman showed reporters still photos taken from the videotape and said they clearly showed a California Highway Patrol officer standing near the beating and putting away his nightstick. 
He also said King believed two LAPD sergeants, not one, were at the scene 
Sgt. Mike Brey, public affairs officer for the CHP's Southern Affairs Division, was out of his office and did not immediately return a telephone call seeking comment. 
"The investigation continues and we intend to follow the case until we're satisfied that we've followed all avenues," said Mike Botula, a spokesman for the district attorney's office. 
He declined to comment fur­ther on Lerman's statements, citing secrecy rules on evidence presented to the county grand jury. 
He said he soon will file suits against the city in Superior Court and in federal court, al­leging civil rights violations. 

Lerman told reporters he had notified the state attorney gen­eral's office that he intended to file a claim against the Highway Patrol as well. 
He also said he intended to find out what role was played by two Los Angeles Unified School District police officers who were at the scene. 
School district spokeswoman Diana Muna Tones said the dis­trict was conducting its own in­vestigation into their role. Both have since been transferred to desk assignments. She said the officers were patrolling schools in the area the night King was pulled over. 
Asked whether King thinks Gates should resign, Lerman said King was ambivalent. "He said, 'There's more trouble out there than Chief Gates.' But he thought it might be safer if Gates stepped down," Lerman said. 
Gates "displayed a stunning 
AP Photo

lack of leadership," according to a resolution adopted by the 
L.A. police officer Theodore Briseno arrives at a courtroom Friday to 
Los Angeles County Federa­
hear felony charges read against him and three other officers indicted 
tion's Council of Delegates, said 
for the beating of an unarmed black motorist. 
executive secretary-treasurer William Robertson. 
University acquires Irish map collections 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Libraries have received two collections, one of sea charts and the other of maps of Ireland, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McGrath of Juno Beach, Fla. 
The Thomas C. and Helen G. McGrath Collection of Sea Charts of Ireland has been named in honor of Mr. McGrath's parents. 
The sacrifices of the parents of Mr. McGrath enabled him to study chemical engineering at Notre Dame in 1944-45 while waiting to be called to naval duty in the Second World War. He later obtained a law degree form the University of Pennsylvania Law School and served in Congress as representative of a New Jersey district. 

Most of the eleven sea charts in the McGrath collection date from the 17th century. One, printed by L. Wagenhaer, is the first printed chart showing the coast of Ireland alone. It may be a page from Wagenhaer's sea atlas, which was published in Dutch in 1588. 
The David Butler Collection of Maps of Ireland has been named in honor of Mrs. McGrath's father, who was born 
What a Great Way to Spend Your 21st Birthday!! Many, More Happy Ones, Kathy Allred!! 
At least three officers pum:.-~-------------------------t 
Apply for the 1991 
~llflfiilf!w:ru @ffl@UiJ(l@(k{j@[iij 
~@©t!l!llf!f!J@ ©®WilWil~l£1£@@ 
Applications are available from the Student Government Secretary 2nd floor Lafortune Due: Friday, March 22 at 4:00pm Note--We need an ~~'fR~'f! 
~-----------------------------+ 
~ ~
. .-.. 

in Navan, County Meath, Ireland in 1893 and died five years ago in Philadelphia, Pa. 
According to the McGraths, the maps and charts were purchased over a period of 25 years from dealers in Sweden, Germany, England, Ireland and the United States. 
The 69 maps of the Butler Collection were created in the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. The oldest map in the collection, made in 1567 by Benedetto Bordone, is believed to the be earliest printed map depicting Ireland alone. 
According to Notre Dame librarian Laura Fudere, "These early printed maps were far more richly illustrated than the geographical and road maps familiar to us today. Most of them have been hand-colored and have engraved pictures of coats of armor, ocean animals, tall ships, and other objects." 
One map, by Mercator­Hondius, features an inset with six costumed figures, including a gentleman and woman, a civil man and woman, and a "wilde" man and woman. Robert Burns, professor of history at Notre Dame, says the illustration is a superb portrayal of 16th century Irish dress which he intends to send his students to view. 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY*
-(?MPUS (*CBS) 
MINISTRY 
SPONSORED BY 
Univenlry or Notr' Dome 

None Dome. IN 46556 CAMPUS MINISTRY 
ALL STUDENTS AND MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY INVITED TO ATTEND 
Ecumenical Bible Study 
EVERY TUESDAY • 7:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Badin 
One Hour Bring Your 
Directed by: Rev. 
Conference Room Hall 
Sessions Own Bible 
AI D' Alonzo,CSC 

For Additional Information Call: 239-5955 239-5242 


.... -............. --............... --..... ~..,. .. .or-............. ----..... -­
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 The Observer page 5 

AP Photo

Hot position 
Riot policemen dodge flames of firebombs hurled by some 1 0,000 radical students in Seoul Saturday. They demonstrated the resig­nation of President Roh Tae-woo over a major housing scandal. 
·--Ih-e-0-bse.-~~o·r­
------&.-=Y_:_~ -­

is looking for students interested in the paid position of 
Illustrator 

You must be able to work either Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings. If you are interested, contact Jake Frost at 283-1 078. 
How to start your law career Defore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 

Mter taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la'N firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for 

information and class starting dates. The 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
one pre-law course that determines the 
course of your law career. 
9:1 
!KAPLAN 
DON'T COMPETE WITH 
A KAPLAN STIJDENT-BE ONE 

---------1711 E. SWTH IIEJI) AVE. SWTH IIEJI), IN W.J7 
219/272-41J5 

6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 
Students, administrators discuss curriculum and cultural diversity 
By KATE MANUEL 
Assistant News Editor 
Expressing student concerns to professors and gaining faculty support is crucial in changing curriculum to reflect cultural diversity, said partici­pants in Tuesday's meeting be­tween administrators and the students who prepared the Board of Trustees report on cultural diversity. 
"Curriculum reform is some­thing faculty tend to go slow on," said one participant. 
Notre Dame has already taken steps toward reforming the Arts and Letters curriculum so that it reflects cultural di­versity, said administrators. 
There is a proposal that all Arts and Letters students be required to take a course on race, gender and/or class. This course would not be added to existing requirements; rather, a student could complete it while completing a history, English, or other requirement. 
Supplementary additions to the Core course curriculum, to better reflect cultural diversity, are also in the process of being implemented. 
Notre Dame has created cre­ated exchange programs with Xavier University that would allow ND students to study at Xavier and vice versa, as well as open NO foreign study pro­grams to Xavier students. Notre Dame would also benefit through access to Xavier's strong programs in Afro­American history and litera­ture. 
Many Arts and Letters de­partments have made efforts to recruit minority faculty by tar­geting candidates and making competitive offers, advertising vacancies, and checking "network" contacts at other universities. Departments are also working to keep the faculty they have. 
The University has also re­ceived grants to address prob­lems of cultural diversity and curriculum. They include: 

•A 
grant from the Ford Foundation financing a summer workshop to help faculty incorporate culturally-diverse resources in their curriculum. This workshop will be video­taped and shown to newly-hired faculty members. 

•A 
grant from Etna address­ing the minority attrition among freshmen, and 

•A 
grant from the Lilley foundation to sensitize faculty to ethnic concerns and increase funding for minority programs within the Freshman Year of Studies. 


Representing the Administra­tion in the discussions were Pa­tricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs, Roland Smith, executive assistant to the Pres­ident, Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate Provost and professor of management. 
Chippewas gain hunting, fishing rights 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) -A federal judge issued a final rul­ing Tuesday in a 16-year-old case, pulling together hundreds of pages of decisions recogniz­ing the Chippewa Indians' off­reservation hunting and fishing rights in Wisconsin. 
The most controversial deci­sion contained in the ruling dealt with the Chippewa's right to traditional spearfishing by flashlight soon after the ice breaks up on northern Wiscon­sin lakes. 
The practice has provoked angry demonstrations in north­ern Wisconsin. Protests by whites who fear' the practice takes so many fish that their fishing will be ruined have in­cluded rock throwing, racial slurs and hundreds of arrests for disorderly conduct. 


U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb's ruling incorporates de­cisions since 1987 that recog­nize the rights of the state's estimated 12,000 Chippewa In­dians to hunt and fish outside limits imposed on non­Chippewa sportspeople. 
Key among the decisions was a ruling the late U.S. District Judge James Doyle Sr. made in 1987. He said the tribe had the right to a wide variety of wild animals, fish and plants, includ­ing the right to sell or trade them, but they could not threaten the continued survival of any species. 

Doyle also ruled the rights of the Chippewa take precedence over the right of non-Chippewa to the same resources, because the Indians believed they were retaining those rights when they ceded the northern third of Wisconsin to the federal gov­ernment. 
Earlier Tuesday, Crabb denied an attempt by the Lac Courte Oreilles band of Chippewas to bring the federal government into the dispute in order to boost the tribe's ability to receive damage awards from the state. 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Panelists debate quality of Gulf War press coverage 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
In a panel discussion spon­sored by the Society of Profes­sional Journalists, the panelists disagreed about the quality of news reporting of the Gulf War. 
Jack Powers. former editor­in-chief of the Chicago Tribune and adjunct associate professor American studies, described the news coverage as "superficial and banal." 
He said, "They reached levels of triviality and superficiality I'd never hope to meet." However, Powers did acknowledge that the reporters were working under "tough hurdles" of military restrictions. 
Powers commented that, "the war seemed staged to keep news reporters off the street." 
He cited newspaper articles reporting on which broadcast­ing network was rated first. and articles on reporters as examples of poor coverage. 
The mayor of South Bend, Joseph Kernan, a POW during the Vietnam War, was content with the news coverage of Desert Storm. Kernan con­fessed, "I became a CNN fan. I was riveted by the news cover­age." He also said, "I never felt like I needed more than I got." 
Kernan attributed the control of information as a role of the Pentagon, an arm of the admin­istrative branch of government, acting out its role of public re­lations, "putting the best face on the administration." Kernan said, "Thank God, we didn't have to find out what would have happened if public opinion eroded." 

Lt. C. Douglass Hemphill, professor of military science, was also pleased with the news coverage. He said, "There are things that couldn't be broad­casted, printed, or more people would have been killed." 
Hemphill felt that the briefers answered what they could. He said, "I don't know what could have been done differently. Questions were asked, some were turned aside, because they had to be turned aside, others were answered." However, he conceded that the less experienced military briefers were a little conservative. 
Hemphill said, "I was glad when I heard they closed Dover airport (where many of the war casualties are brought) to the 
press. I don't know what good 
would have been served by 
showing a stream, if there were 
a stream, of remains." 

Charles Lawson, who has two 
sons in Kuwait and is a member 
of Just Kuwaiting, a community 
group of concerned citizens, 
said, "Yes, they held some 
things (information) back, but 
my sons were being shot at and 
Scuded at. I wouldn't have 
wanted it any other way. I 
think everyone did an outstand­
ing job." 

Michael Garvey, assistant di­.rector of public relations and 
information, said, "I was ap­
palled; the press did an 
abysmal job." 

Garvey continued, "the press 
failed in its responsibility to the 
American public." He said, 
"the entire democracy works less well when the press is regulated to a cheerleading outfit." He added, "The job of the press is not to wave the flag, it is to present the facts." 
Garvey faults the press more than the military. He said, "the journalists became supine in the face of restrictions." He felt that the press as an institution "rolled over and said tell us what to write and we'll write it." 
Garvey also criticized the strict press restrictions. He il­lustrated his point using the example of an article by a De­troit reporter describing sol­diers returning from their first mission as "giddy." The censors changed the adjective to "proud." The reporter and the censors compromised on "pumped-up." 

---·-----------------------------. 
American ExpressAnnounces AGreat New 

Travel Program. · 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Now students can get the Card 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days ofthe dayyou leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well-as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa­There's only one way to cover a lot ofterritorywithout spending tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable alot of money. And that's by getting the American Express®Card. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank ­Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place youtllike with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. Ifit's on your side ofthe Mississippi River, you Card nowwhile you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, everbe again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick ofmore than 150 cities in the . territory on either side ofour Great Continental Divide. 
CALL 1-800-942-AMEX •
CONTINENTAL

Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

Complete terms and conditions of this travel oft'er will arrive with your certificates. Continental Aidind alone is responsible for fulfillment of this otJer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines' performance.© 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, tnc. 
-----~----­
Wednesday, March 20,1991 The Observer 
I• 
\_ 
\.'· .'*'la ,# 

rally AP Photo 

Demonstrators hold pictures of Lenin and Serbian communist leader Slobodan Milosevic during the rally m support of the army in Belgrade, Yugoslavia Saturday. 

Business students compete in Ontario 
Special to the Observer 
Four Notre Dame seniors in the College of Business Admin­istration will represent the Uni­versity of Notre Dame in a case competition to be held March 20-22 at the University of W(1Stern Ontario. 
Kathleen Basinski, Laura Kirehofer, Jennifer Becker, and .John Sabey won a college-wide undergraduate case competi­tion earlier this semester by de­feating four other campus teams. 
The Notre Dame team will eompete against other teams from the University of Virginia, tlw University of Minnesota, Luigi Bocconi University in Mi­lan, Italy, and Keio University in Tokyo, Japan. 
The University of Western Ontario. located in London, On­tario. is one of Canada's premier public universities and is widely known for its Honors Business Administration pro­gram. 
Case competition is a tradi­tional form of expression for students of business, permitting individuals with differing skills and backgrounds to work together as a team. 
Given a narrative description of a business or firm experienc­ing difficulty, the team will ana­lyze and define the nature of the problem, suggest solutions, and brief their recommenda­tions to an impartial panel of judges. 
Case competitors are judged on their analytical abilities, the quality and soundness of their recommendations, and their ability to write and speak dur­ing team presentations. 
Kirchofer, who organized the team, is an accounting major from Randolph, N.J.; Basinski is a marketing major from Vienna, Va.; Becker is a management major from Buffalo, N.Y.; and Sabey, from Seattle, Wash., is a finance major. 

Frank Montabon, a manage­ment major from Lacrosse, Wis., will travel with the team as an alternate member. Also accompanying the team will be team coaches James O'Rourke, associate professor of man­agement, and Clay Smith and Gary Kern, assistant professors of management. 
The University of Notre Dame has competed in case tourna­ments at both the undergradu­ate and graduate level for many years. Last year a team of Notre Dame seniors competed with an international field of business school teams at the University of Virginia's Mcintire School of Commerce in Charlottesville, Va. 
page 7 80-year-old rancher faces marijuana accusations 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -An 80-year-old rancher living at the gateway to one of Utah's most spectacular canyons has been accused of growing mari­juana and now stands to lose his coveted land. 
Bradshaw Bowman's lawyer 
contends the old man is the 

victim of a lucrative land grab. 
Prosecutors say they are only 
enforcing tough drug laws. 

Authorities found 65 mari­juana plants last July near Bowman's home by the Escalante River where it runs through his 160-acre ranch. The river goes on to cut through one of the many red rock and sandstone canyons dotting the area. 
If convicted, Bowman could get up to 15 years in prison, and Garfield County prosecu­tors could seize the land he bought in 1973. 
Bowman has been offered up to $500,000 for the property, and developers and environ­mentalists alike have coveted the land, said his lawyer, Mar­cus Taylor. 
"It's a land grab. It's a money­hungry grab by Garfield County," Taylor said. "If Garfield County is successful, the ranch is liquidated and the proceeds used by local law en­forcement for drug control." 
"For people to say that Garfield County is trying to grab this guy's land is totally crazy," said county Attorney Wallace Lee. "Utah state law and federal law allow criminal justice agencies to forfeit prop­erty, real and personal." 
"I feel for Mr. Bowman, but we're trying to be tough," he said. "It's a strong measure, no doubt about it. But I think we need something strong' to com­bat the problem." 
The state Tax Commission is also demanding $30,000 under a state law that requires traf­fickers to affix a tax stamp to their contraband. 
Bowman, who said he has raised plants for 30 years, indi­cated he wasn't growing the marijuana. 
"I've always loved plants. I feel like I could grow anything. Where this stuff was found, it's not possible," he said. "There's hardly any sun. I would have too much respect for myself." 
Bowman remains on the ranch, living in a guest cottage that complements the main house he designed to look like an old Mormon barn. 
A retired designer and builder, as well as a sculptor and painter, Bowman moved to the area with his wife in 1977 after the couple raised three daughters in Carmel, Calif. His wife died seven years ago. 
Bowman says the land is the retreat he sought for 40 years. It is "probably as close to heaven as I'll ever get," he said. 

}J 

CONTESTENTS: Bill Kempf, Mike Donnino, Chris Ford, Adrian Enzastiga, Joe Turbyville, Chris Ebert, John Stoj, John Donohoe, Kevin Sullivan and Rob Hegedvs 
FIND OUT AT THE 1991 MR. STANFORD CONTES WHEN: SAT., MARCH 23 at 7:30 
II proceeds benefit the 
WHERE: WASHINTON HALL
Logan Center 

TALK TO A STUD FORD 
----------------------~
---~---~----;--------~~-­

r--'----~-~-~-­
The Observer 

page 8 Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Noriega conspirators convicted 
star prosecution witness Ramon dressed the group by speaker
• 
MIAMI (AP) -Jurors con­Navarro during the trial phone, Paredes said. victed two co-defendants of undoubtedly frightened jurors The deal involved trading Manuel Noriega of plotting with and hurt the defense more than 1,000 automatic rifles for the the deposed Panamanian leader the prosecution. He said cocaine, possibly to the M-19 to trade M-16 automatic rifles Navarro would have completely Colombian guerrilla group for cocaine on Tuesday. contradicted other government through the Medellin drug car­
witnesses. tel, according to the govern­
Brian Davidow and William ment. Saldarriaga were convicted of Steven Kreisberg, attorney for Noriega supplied the conspiracy to import cocaine Saldarriaga, said his client weapons, Saldarriaga was to
r 
and distribution with intent to faced steep odds. handle the loading of the co­
import. They became the first "They had a load of evi­caine in Colombia, and Davidow
r 
Noriega co-defendants to be dence," he said. "Noriega had was to sell some of the drugs
r 
convicted in the case. an insidious effect in that they when the Krill reached Miami,
r 
r 
The two face up to 40 years in subpoenaed documents and authorities said. Noriega was to 
r 
prison each. U.S. District Judge made deals with people they get a share of the profits, 
r 
William Hoeveler set sentencing never would have talked to Paredes testified. 
t 
for May 14. otherwise." 
r 
Lead prosecutor Mike Sullivan Noriega will be tried in June When the trial began, the 
t 
refused to comment on the on the same counts, as well as government's key witness was
r 
verdict, but his boss, U.S. At­on broader racketeering expected to be Ramon Navarro, torney Dexter Lehtinen, was charges. Several other co-de­a confessed drug trafficker who upbeat. fendants have reached plea brokered the Krill deal. But he 
"This verdict shows the public agreements. was killed in a car crash the a jury will convict with the kind night of opening statements, of evidence we have in the so­The case against Davidow, 29, before he could testify. called Noriega case," Lehtinen a Miami real estate salesman, Navarro's death is still listed as said, referring to testimony and Saldarriaga, 46, a an open homicide case, but po­from informants within the il­Colombian importer, revolved lice have said there is no evi­legal drug trade who were around the ill-fated voyage of dence of foul play. given reduced sentences in re­the luxury yacht Krill in March The defense attacked Pare­turn for their cooperation. 1986. des' credibility, noting that he 
Davidow's attorney, Richard Colombian police seized the had been offered a sentence of Sharpstein, put his arm around Krill as it prepared to leave an up to 10 years for cooperating, his client after the hearing the offshore island with 700 pounds instead of the 95 he was facing verdict, which he later blamed of cocaine stashed in hidden under the indictment. on the government's zeal to compartments. 1\vo of the men Davidow has been free on prosecute Noriega. who allegedly helped organize bond since surrendering shortly 
"The government threw a the deal were murdered in after the indictment was morass of frightening informa­Medellin, Colombia, days before . handed up in February 1988. 
AP Photo 

tion at the jury -the Medellin the yacht was raided. Saldarriaga remains at the cartel, the Noriega connection, The government's star wit­Metropolitan Correctional Cen­the unexplained deaths," ness, Amet Paredes, testified ter, as does Noriega, who has a
Long walt 

Sharpstein said. "It was very that the conspirators had plot­private cell. difficult for the jurors to keep ted the Krill's voyage with Nor­Four co-defendants have
Marines pass the time in a variety of ways as they wait in line at the 

their eye on the ball." iega in a series of meetings in pleaded guilty in the case. Eight
base exchange at Jubail, Saudi Arabia Friday. 

Sharpstein said the death of Panama City. Noriega ad-defendants are still at large. 
$1 million in grants aid research, other programs 
Special to the Observer •$17,642 from the National Institutes of Health for research 
The University of Notre Dame by Subhash Chandra Basu, received $1,184,332 in grants professor of chemistry and during February for the support biochemistry, on glycolipid of research and various metabolism in normal and programs. Research funds to­pathological tissues. taled $1,034,997, including: 
•$417
,143 from International •$6,000 from the National Business Machines for research Aeronautics and Space Admin­by David Cohn, professor of istration Lewis Research Center electrical engineering, on the for research by William Berry, evaluation of the arcade dis­professor of electrical engineer­tributed environment for dis­ing, on the material develop­tributed and multiprocessor ment of electrical contacts. computing. Awards for facilities and 

•$329,000 
from the National equipment totaled $14,600 Science Foundation for experi­from the National Science mental research in elementary Foundation for the acquisition particle physics by William of an electronic particle size Shephard and Neal Cason, pro­analyzer to be used by John fessors of physics, and others. Halfman, assistant professor of 

•$114, 
096 from Utah State earth sciences. University for research by John Bumpus, associate faculty fel­Awards for instructional low in chemistry and biochem­programs totaled $54,074, in­istry, on the enzymology of cluding: fungal and mammalian peroxi­•$49,074 from the National dase. Science Foundation for a 

•$49,755 
from the Indiana science and engineering pro­University School of Medicine gram for talented high school for research by Robert Kingsley, seniors, administered by Mario adjunct assistant professor of Borelli, associate professor of biQlogical sciences, on corneal mathematics and director of innervation and wound healing. special instructional projects 

•$47,613 
from the U.S. Air and activities. Force for preliminary design •$5,000 from Lilly Endow­research of flight vehicle struc­ment Inc. for a summer stipend tures by Stephen Batill, associ­for Thomas Jemielity, professor ate professor of aerospace and of English, for work on a mechanical engineering. project on comedy, "A Look be­

•$35,000 
from Upjohn Co. for hind Its Mask." unrestricted research by Jacob Awards for service programs Szmuszkovicz, Jacob adjunct totaled $80,661 including: professor of chemistry and bio­•$25,135 from the Indiana chemistry, and Thomas Fehlner, State Board of Health for the Grace-Rupley professor of arbovirus surveillance labora­chemistry and biochemistry. tory service provide by Paul 

•$27,
748 from Oregon State Grimstad, associate professor of University for subcontracted biological sciences. National Science Foundation •$55,526 from private bene­research by Gary Lamberti, as­factors for various programs of sistant professor of biological the Institutes for Pastoral and sciences. Social Ministry. 




Apple Computer, Inc. 
,_ 

•~ Open House! 
Come see our new printers and enjoy some refreshements! 

StyleWriter Personal LaserWriter LS 
360 dpi -inkjet technology 300 dpi -laser printer QuickDraw!frueType fonts QuickDraw!frue Type fonts 
$380.00 $830.00 
Date: Friday, March 22, 1991 Time: I O:OOam-2:00pm 
Place: 
NOTU.E DAME 
COMPl.lTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Duilding 
Phone: 239-7477 
Hours: Mon. • Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Apple representatives will be available to answer your questions! tl•The power to be your bestn 
~-------~ --~-----~ 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
..-----------------­
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Arnett returns to U.S. amid accusations; CNN reporter defends work as impartial 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Peter Arnntt eame home to a hero's welcome Tuesday at the National Press Club and defnnded his reporting from Baghdad as vital to thn American public. 
"I have no apologies," the Cable Nnws Network corre­spondnnt told a crowd of hundreds of journalists. 
liP had been ealled an Iraqi sympathiznr by Sen. Alan Simpson, H-Wyo .. and many other Americans also had questioned why hn had stayed btJhind to report from the eapital of a nation with whom thn Unitnd Statns was at war. 
Arnett. th11 only U.S. journalist to report from Iraq for the duration of the war, said he was "arnusnd, frankly" by Simpson's eomments. But he added, "I guess the American people wtmm 't quite clear about what we wnre doing." 
The American news media havn a long history of covering both sides of wars, from Vietnam to Central America to Afghanistan, he said. 
Some of Arnett's most controversial reports dealt with the U.S. bombing of what Iraq called a civilian bomb shelter. The Pentagon called it a command and control center for the Iraqi military. Scores· of pnople wern killed in the attack. 
Arnett questioned Iraqi officials repeatedly about the bombed shelter and examined it closely. 
He said the only change he made in his reports as the story unfolded was to delete the word "civilian" in reference to the facility and to simply call it a shelter. 
Iraqi censorship was a "fairly tough" obstacle, said Arnett. But the American public learned substantial information from his reports, despite the constraints, he said. 
Though he wasn't scared for his life, it did give him pause when a U.S. cruise missile blew up an auditorium only 200 yards away. 

He added that the near-misses seemed to scare the ever­present Iraqi censors. "They didn't have the future of journalistic freedom in their minds," Arnett quipped. 
Arnett, who has covered 17 wars, also pleaded for the release of kidnapped journalist Terry Anderson; the Associated Press' chief Middle East correspondent was grabbed by radical groups six years ago in Lebanon. 
The powerlessness of the news media and the U.S. government in this case is reflected in its inability "to win his freedom," Arnett said. In contrast, he said Iraq released the CBS crew which was grabbed during the Gulf War after implied threats from the U.S. government. 
Arnett won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the Vietnam War while he was a reporter for The Associated Press. 
page 9 


demonstrated 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
copters against its restive pop­ulation, saying any use would imperil the cease-fire. 
Meanwhile, the Iraqi Kurdis­tan Front said in London that rebel forces had seized much of Kirkuk, 150 miles north of Baghdad. It said troops guard­ing surrounding oil fields had surrendered. 
Hoshyar Zebari, a Front spokesman, said rebels shot down two Iraqi helicopter gun­ships over Kirkuk early Tues­day and were pushing loyalists out of the city. 
"There are pockets we are still mopping up," he said by telephone. 
Iran's official Islamic Repub­lic News Agency also said it monitored a rebel Kurdish broadcast inside Iraq saying insurgent forces seized key points in the city. 
Western reporters have been unable to reach battle scenes in the north of Iraq, so there has been no way to verify Kirkuk's capture or other rebel claims. 
The Kurdistan front's state­ment also said rioting had spread to Mosul, with a popula­tion of 1 million residents. 
It said Kurdish, Arab and Christian citizens had taken to the streets and security forces rounded up approximately 20,000 residents to use as hu­man shields against the demon­strators and Kurdish guerrillas. 
Shiite rebel officials disputed claims in Iraq's government dailies that anti-government ri­ots had been crushed in Najaf, Karbala, Hilla and Amara. 
Bayan Jabr, spokesman for the Shiite Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Hevolution in Iraq, said Najaf, Karbala and Amara were still in rebel hands, as well as the towns of Kut and Nasseriyah. 
Jabr told reporters in Dam­ascus that Shiite rebels were using weapons seized five days ago from a government depot between the holy cities. 
, 1 
., 
, 
1 
1 



page 10 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor Lisa Eaton 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant VIewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............... Oavid Dieteman Accent Edltor.................... John O'Brien Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett 
Business Manager Gilbert Gomez 
Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Language only expresses, not forms, what we think 
Stephanie Snyder 
Guest Colummst 
I am writing in response to Eric Werge's article (The Observer, March 6) which ex­plored the emergence and in­stallation of gender-inclusive language. I wish to argue with some of the article's statements from certain women faculty members. 
According to Eileen Kolman, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, "Language not only expresses what we think, but forms what we think." I strongly disagree with the lat­ter part of this statement (as I believe, if it contained any validity whatsoever, according to Kolman I should not be dis­agreeing). In any case, contrary to what Kolman suggests, we, a thinking society, have formed language. Words are merely vehicles utilized to express ideas--and as we are aware, ideas, not only characteristi­cally complex, often vary. 
John Locke wrote in his "Essay Concerning Human Understanding": "A child hav­ing taken notice of nothing in the metal he hears called gold, but the bright shining yellow colour, he applies the word gold only to his own idea of that colour, and nothing else; and therefore calls the same colour in a peacock's tail gold." In other words, the child's idea of "gold" does not remain fixed. Words represent many meanings which each individual applies personally. 
Similarly, words such as "man" (in the general sense) or "mankind" are mere repre­sentations of ideas. The inter­pretations of such words--not the words themselves--are the real issues being debated here. But, I ask, how can you fight 
DOONESBURY 
individual interpretations, opinion and ideas? On top of that, how can the University even think of adopting a resolu­tion {cited in the heretofore mentioned article) demanding the usage of "inclusive lan­guage" by the faculty and stu­
dent body? 
I agree that there will always 
be those persons {as cited in 
the 'authorless' essay "Man as 
a False Generic") whose idle 
minds attempt to redefine def­
initions, thus relimiting expres­
sion. In my opinion, Kolman, 
along with Ellen Weaver 
(professor of theology) and a 
Sister Kathleen Cannon (head 
of the Faculty and Student 
Committe on the Status of 
Women at Notre Dame), are 
doing just this. They are actu­
ally--and literally--separating 
the sexes in their noble attempt 
to "include" women into 
generalized language with such 
words as "humanity" instead of 
"mankind." 
Lastly, as I reflect upon my writing thus far, I am amazed that I even took the time to comment upon such an issue as gender-inclusive language. In less than two months I will be graduating into the world of "awareness" in which Kolman, Weaver and Cannon already re­side. 
When I take my final leave of Notre Dame and its "golden" dome, however, I cannot say that I will seriously deliberate over my ("expected") use of "respectful and inclusive lan­guage" when faced with more imminent problems of homelessness, broken families, AIDS and federal deficits which have been left for my genera­tion to mend. 
Snyder is a senior liberal arts major. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Birth control advocate's horrific views do not deserve celebration 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in regards to the Women's History Month multi­ple choice quiz (The Observer, March 7). 
In among questions about Maya Angelou, Rosa Parks, Sally Ride, Mother Theresa and Jane Austen, there was another which read: "Margaret Sanger was the advocate of (a) birth control (b) no-fault divorce laws 
(c) 
women's property rights (d) ERA." The answer is, of course, 

(a) 
Margaret Sanger is famous for being the foundress of Planned Parenthood. 


Ms. Sanger had been very much on my mind that week, ever since I had stopped to look at the exhibit on Women's History in the library concourse. The second display has in it an official Women's History Month poster which spotlights eight notable women, among them Margaret Sanger. 
Now I have absolutely no problem with people boning up on women's history-would that there were much more of that going on-but I do question the celebratory nature of the context of Ms. Sanger's mentions. I think her story could stand some filling out just so we all know who it is we're honoring. As The Observer Accent staffers wrote: "You might even be surprised at how much you didn't know." 
Margaret Sanger did not merely champion the cause of birth control, she linked it to eugenics. "More children from the fit, less from the unfit: that is the chief issue of birth con­trol." The "unfit," according to Sanger, included the "feeble­minded, idiots, morons, insane, syphilic, epileptic, criminal, professional prostitutes., illit­erates, paupers, unemployables, dope fiends." I urge everyone to take a look sometime at her horrific essay entitled "A Plan for Peace" [Birth Control Review 16 (4), April1932: 107­108]. 
This is by no means an ar­chaic lesson. History is repeat­ing itself. For instance, the De­cember 12, 1990 Philadelphia Inquirer printed an editorial which suggested that the con­traceptive/abortifacient Nor­plant could help solve the prob­lem of poverty among blacks, noting that "it's very tough to undo the damage of being born into a dysfunctional family." Vanessa Williams. a black re­porter for The Inquirer and president of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists, quickly wrote in protest: "The implication was that [African Americans are] the target group for the proposed reduction-to some unknown magic number-of children born into poverty...That suggestion treads dangerously close to state­sponsored genocide." 
Margaret Sanger's spirit is very much alive, and I see no reason to celebrate. I should hope that those who advocate the use of birth control would be loathe to point to her as their champion of old. 
Mary Lee Freeman Walsh hall March 11, 1991 

Audience contributed to film festival's success 
more money for charity (we had an audience of over 1300 people) if we hadn't upset so many people. 
Despite this, the evening was definitely a huge success and should prove to be even better next year. Once again, I thank you (and St. Hedwig's thanks you) for your support. 
Jay Barry Chairman, Morrissey Film Festival March 11,1991 

Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this op­portunity to expressly thank the director, cast, crews and especially the audience for their support of this year's Morrissey Film Festival. The night was very successful; we raised close to $1000 for the St. Hedwig's program and managed to provide a fun and entertaining evening for the Notre Dame community. , 
In order to continue this fine tradition next year, we're probably going to move to a bigger location, like Stepan center or 0' Laughlin audito­rium, and definitely continue the trend of improving the number and quality of the films submitted. Most importantly, however, we're going to work on the production value of the night itself. This year's fest featured a constant barrage of demeaning sexist jokes, and I'd like to apologize to those of you who were offended. Doubtlessly, we could have raised much 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 page 11 
victors 

An obscene anonymous phone call started the wheels in my mind turning once again. The caller had indirectly set me to the task of assessing the situa­tion after the war in the Persian Gulf region. and trying to find who, if anyone, came away the victor. In this attempt one must look at the parties and ideas involved. 
The Iraqis suffcrfld devastat­ing losses in the war. The AJiied forces seem to gloat in the fact that Saddam Hussein's armed forces were decimatnd. We tend to forget about the dead and injurnd humans as well as the hordes left homeless. To add to the problems, the economy. al­ready depletnd before the war, is in a shambles with no light of hope shining in the near future. 
The Kuwaitis rngained their country from the Iraqi tyrant in order to put the power back into the hands of the Kuwait ruling family/tyrants, much to the chagrin of many democ­racy-minded Kuwaitis. The struggle and chaos within the eountry has led to violent clash betwnnn the prodemocracy fac­tion and the ruling family. Visions of Beirut come to mind. 
The Palestinians have been the losers, it seems, in every si­tuation since the inception of the Israeli state. Due to the fact that a group, which most con­sider the voice of all Palestinians, supportfld Saddam Hussein, the West considered them all to bn enemies. The fact that many within the Kuwaiti borders helped the Kuwaiti resistance in their efforts to fight the Iraqi invaders is often forgotten. This fact will not help many of them as the Kuwaiti ambassador ~stimated that up 
Jack Daly 
Guest Columnist 
to 90 percent of them would be deported. Deported to what? Certainly not a Palestinian homeland, as the efforts to set up a homeland are no closer to becoming reality than ever before. 
The Israeli 's suffered the Scud attacks on its innocent people. This nation should be commended for not allowing itself to be brought to violence as hundreds of casualties oc­curred when Saddam vented his frustration on the nation of bystanders. Some would argue that the Israelis are winners in this war because the greatest adversary in the region has been eliminated, and the coun­try is receiving over $600 mil­lion from the United States. 
I tend to remember that be­fore August there was great concern about Hafaz Assan of Syria, but I guess he is a good guy now and can be trusted, sort of like Saddam Hussein before August 2. 
As far as the monetary com­pensation, I do not see how the suffering of those affected by the Scud attacks can be bought off by these funds which they will probably never see (the Israeli government has this nasty habit of buying more weapons than is really neces­sary, and after a war, the spending goes up). 
The Saudis incurred damage to cities through looting and Scud missile attacks. This is not a great financial set back for this rich nation, but the loss of young Saudi life can not be replaced or assigned a mone­tary value. 

The oil companies , who showed great fear publicly when the invasion occurred, laughed all the way to the bank with our money during the oc­cupation of Kuwait. They were portrayed as being frightened for their existence, so I guess I became a bit skeptical when I read that most oil companies enjoyed the largest quarterly profits in years. 
Now that the war is over there are more reserves open, but the over-inflated prices which we were willing to pay at the pump during the war, must come down now because there is no excuse to maintain the outrageous fees (in the eyes of the American consumers), so even the oil companies lose. 
The environment suffered some of the worst catastrophes war has ever brought her. Not only was she bombed for the oil for which she is being raped, but that same oil was dumped into her waters, and the thick black smoke of burning oil filled her skies. War is always extremely harsh to our good Earth, but this war was espe­cially damaging. 
The United States covered its eyes in red, white and blue flags and yellow ribbon for seven months, and spent almost one billion dollars a day on the war at times. While this occurred, the recession worsened and homeless on the streets of our capital froze during the cold nights of January and February because we spend too much on social welfare and not enough on 
· defense (ha, ha). Now some economists are saying that due to the trends on 
treet e reces soon be behind us. Well, I come from Main Street in the Northeast, and I will wait to see if Wall Street's statements transpire into jobs on Main Street, because oddly enough, the events on Wall Street and on Main Street often times do not go hand in hand. 
I mentioned the homeless and our government expenditures because it bewilders me how men and women can leave Capitol Hill for lunch, walk down the Mall, step over some homeless people and still live with themselves as they cut away Social Welfare programs because we can only blow up the world 50 times over rather than 100 times. 
It further amazes me how we rush to the aid of the Kuwaitis when we have homeless and starving persons, as well as many other social problems, in this country. If this weren't bad enough, American soldiers sent to the Gulf were subject to the 
.... 
aws o e reg on, w out having the choice of whether or not they wanted to subject themselves to them, and the American public was subject to the censored press (Pentagon propaganda) instead of the free press supposedly given to us in the First -Amendment. That's the American way all right! 
Peace was one of the reasons that the President gave of the use of violence. It seems a bit oxymoronic to fight (violently) for peace. I guess it is like cop­ulating for chastity. Peace can never be victorious through vio­lence. 
So I am led to the conclusion that the War Machine and vio­lence won out in this war. So if you love War itself, the taste of victory must be sweet. I can not, and I hope that more peo­ple feel this way, relish in the outcome of this war against humanity. 
Jack Daly is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters. 

Notre Dame must eliminate its religious barriers 
Are religious discrimination to all rights, privileges, and cultural diversity compati-programs and activities gener­ble? ally accorded or made available 
In recent weeks, I have read to students at the school. It numerous articles expressing does not discriminate on the tho dissatisfaction of minority basis of race, color, national studnnts with Notre Dame's and ethnic origin in administra­commitment to cultural diver-tion of its educational policies, sity. However. I have yet to admissions policies, scholarship rnad an article which directly and loan programs, and questions the compatibility of athletic and other school-ad­eultural diversity with a reli-ministered programs." giously-affiliated institution The words "religion" or sueh as the University of Notre "creed" are glaringly omitted Dame. Perhaps this is the issue from the policy (not to mention which our administration and "sex"). Perhaps this omission is students have been most afraid understandable at an institu­of confronting. tion which is religiously based. 
However, with the current However, is it complementary swell of minority outcry against with an institution which is also the existing cultural situation professing to achieve cultural on campus, I feel it is time that diversity? I argue that the an­the issue is addressed. swer is a regrettable but unde­
lt is an aecepted fact that our niable "no." university can legally diserimi-Although Catholicism may be nate on the basis of religion. On open to peoples of all race and page 3 of du Lac , the official background, it is indisputable Notre Damtl policy states that that peoples of all races and "The University of Notre Dame backgrounds simply do not all admits students of any race, adhere to the teachings of the 

Grace Chen 
Guest Columnist 
Christianity for that matter. Can the University achieve the goal of cultural diversity while excluding those peoples? Furthermore, can the University claim to give its students a truly liberal education as befitting "the idea of a university" if it chooses to maintain its Catholic character? 
Perhaps the University and its religious supporters would like to object to my challenge on the grounds that by maintaining its Catholic character, the University pursues a "supportive" role rather than a "discriminatory" one. However, according to figures released to me by the University last semester, approximately 13.1 percent of undergraduate stu­dents are of minority back­grounds and approximately 
13.4 percent are not Catholic. Are these figures correlated way, do persons of minority backgrounds which are charac­terized by religions other than Catholicism face indirect dis­crimination? 
For example, will a black Protestant be admitted to the University as readily as a black, white or Hispanic Catholic applicant? Are Japanese Shintoists, Indian Hindus, Chinese Buddhists, Arab Muslims, American Jews or any other such peoples which would contribute to a truly diversified campus, as likely to be admitted to Notre Dame as Catholics of any race or background? If so, where are they, and to what extent will Notre Dame admit them before clamping down on the grounds of "preserving its Catholic character?" There is a definite give and take here between cultural diversity and the Catholic image. Where does Notre Dame draw the line? 

Much fuss has been made of late of Notre Dame's status as a nationally acclaimed university. In order to project itself as worthy of that claim, the University has launched a mas­sive and expensive campaign to become a major research insti­tution, thus hoping to climb up the annual college ratings of 
U.S. News & World Report and claim comparable status with leading universities such as Harvard and Yale. 

This is an artificial solution to a much deeper problem, for if Notre Dame wishes to become creditable as a great university, it must first remove its religious barriers to the world. It is no accident that interna­tionally recognized institutions such as Harvard and Yale are in the position they are today. 
These universities are re­knowned not just for their achievements in research, but for the depth and breadth of education made available by students and faculty from all races, religions and national backgrounds. If Harvard and Yale had clung to their Puritan roots, they certainly would not have achieved the status they have today as two of the lead­ing educational institutions in the world. 
Imagine the uproar if these institutions decided to give up their secular character tomor­row and return to their Puritan roots! The point is. it shall never happen because these in­stitutions have realized that it is in the best interests of a uni­versity to provide a secularized environment where free thought, views and compar­isons can be truly explored, ex­changed, and challenged. 
In conclusion, I see Notre Dame as facing an unavoidable dilemma. As minority voices grow stronger on this campus, the University will have to 

...
choose between cultural diver­sity and its "Catholic charac­ter," for the two aims are polit­ically and mathematically in­compatible. Notre Dame will have to reassess the role of re­ligion in education. The answer to becoming a "great univer­.. sity" will not lay in more re­search. 
My philosophy is the follow­ing: rather than viewing Catholicism as embracing peo­ple of all races, think of God as embracing people of all reli­

-
gions (and race). 
Chen is a junior economics, government and PPE major in the Notre Daine London Program. 
---~-----~---------­

Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Magic of 'Starlight Express' rolls through town 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 
On March 22, 23 and 24, South Bend will be given the opportunity to experience one of the most spectacular musical productions in history. The Broadway Theatre League's "Starlight Express" will stop at the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center in the sixteenth month of a two-year North American tour to dazzle and delight its audience. 
A work of complex technical and musical craftsmanship, the

-show was acclaimed by Time Magazine as "one of the most astonishing spectacles in the annals of the stage." Inspired by composer Andrew Lloyd Webber's longtime fascination with trains, "Starlight Express" brings Broadway to life by putting Broadway on the move-literally. Not only does the musical travel from city to city on trailer wheels: the show itself is performed on roller skates. Despite its intricate staging, modern setting and futuristic array of costumes and charac­ters, "Starlight Express" poignantly conveys a timeless story. The characters are en­gaged in a struggle to deter­mine the greatest locomotive of them all. Trevor Nunn, the original di­rector of the show, calls the story an expression of "the old­est fight in the world-Good versus Evil-in which a little fellow is bullied by two bigger fellows." Eventually, faith pulls the protagonist through and proves himself bigger than his enemies. With Webber's score and Arlene Phillips' choreography , a talented 3 7 -member cast (including some of the original Broadway company) is trans­formed into an array of loco­motives and railroad cars. However, the "Cinderella story" gives a potentially bizarre plot a sensitive appeal which attracts 
viewers of all ages. "This is a musical with heart that is stylistically very modern." 
Weighing approximately 50 tons, the show's set is the biggest in theater history. It requires an unprecedented ten tractor trailers to move from city to city. "It is amazing that 'Starlight Express' can be built to tour. The new technology makes it possible. It is one thing to build a set in a theatre and play for a few years, but it is another matter entirely to play week-long engagements constantly assembling and dis­mantling the set. 'Starlight Express' is an enormous two­hour long special effect that audiences are going to love." 
Tony and Grammy Award­winning composer Andrew Lloyd Webber deserves credit for the scores to such hits as "Jesus Christ Superstar," "Evita," "Cats" and "Phantom of the Opera." The results of his musical imagination culminate in "Starlight Express," which has captivated four million theater-goers from New York to Japan to Australia. 
Phillips' choreography has appeared in movies like "Annie" and "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life," and in the music videos of stars like Donna 
Summer,  George  Michael.  
Aretha  Franklin,  Kiss  and  
Whitney Houston.  

Phillips describes the show as "a typical family Broadway musical, except for the fact it's on skates." Such a conclusion is doubtful, however. "Starlight Express" shows signs of being anything but typical. With an imaginative cast and superior direction from Webber, Phillips, and Technical Supervisor Jeremiah Harris, this skating delight is sure to bring excite­ment, class and a refreshing twist to the musical theater with which most of society is familiar. 
All aboard! Don't miss out on the ride of a lifetime with "Starlight Express." 


Demme attempts a thriller in 'Silence of the Lambs' 
By JASON WINSLADE 
Accent Writer 
The premise of Jonathan Demme's latest film is quite simple; it takes one cold-blooded psychotic to catch another one. 
However, the evolution of the narrative is not as easy to follow, partly due to the breakneck pace established from the first shot and continued until the end. Jodie Foster is the FBI agent-in-training assigned to interview psychiatrist/ psy­chotic/ cannibal Anthony Hopkins, in one of his most disturbing roles yet. 
Eventually Foster learns that she has been given this particular assignment in order to gather information about the latest serial killer crazy, known as Buffalo Bill, who kills his victims and then skins them. 
The film is always interesting, tense, and suspenseful, through the use of tightly shot dialogue sequences, fast­paced editing, and frequent use of unnerving tight close-ups. All the perfor­mances are first-rate, particularly
• 
Hopkins', whose smile would make anyone shiver, and the the two lead characters are three-dimensional. 
However, the film is plagued with many problems. Demme, director of features such as "Stop Making Sense" and "Something Wild," sets up a seemingly
-unconnected system of symbols that leaves one wondering what point he is trying to make. From the nature of the murders and frequent scenes depicting the results of

mutilation, Hopkins' cannibalism, the death's head moth which is the killer's calling card, to themes of transsexuality, presented in a bizarre scene that is best described as early John Waters meets David Lynch, Demme's symbolism is confusing, and at times, overwhelming. 
Another problem is in the presentation of the psychology of Jodie Foster's character. A few dreamy flashback se­quences, the telling of her past in ex­change for information from Hopkins, including a story which gives the film its title, all are presented to round out Foster's character. But again, it is unclear what connection, if any, these past references have to the narrative at hand. 
Foster is frequently shown as the recipient of leering glances from both criminals and colleagues, and is fre­quently put in the position of defending her authority in situations where she is the odd woman out. 
Perhaps Demme would like to show the audience the pressures and frustrations of a woman recruit in a pre-dominantly male institution. Or perhaps Demme would like his film to present a woman's point of view in a mostly anti-female world of crime and law enforcement. 
Despite these problems, "The Silence of the Lambs " is an enjoyable thriller that frequently repulses, and at the same time, plays with the audience's morbid curiosity about mutilation and murder. Tension is high throughout the film, and thrill seekers will not go away unsatisfied. 

The Observer page 13
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Ewing scores 41 as Knicks roll; Rockets win ninth straight, 98-85 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Patrick Ewing overcame early foul trouble and scored 25 of his 41 points in the second half as New York Knicks won for the 10th time in 12 games, whipping the Charlotte Hornets 97-79 Tuesday night. 
Ewing, who had three fouls in the first half, totally domi­nated inside in the second. He scored 12 points in the third quarter and 13 in the fourth. 
He made 18 of 25 shots, was five for five from the free throw line and led the Knicks with eight rebounds. He did not commit a foul in the second half. 
Rex Chapman led Charlotte, which shot only 34.1 percent, with 22 points. 
Hawks 104, Celtics 92 
Spud Webb scored six points and Glenn Rivers five in a 19-6 fourth-quarter burst that cre­ated an 18-point lead for Atlanta. 

The victory snapped a three­game homecourt losing streak for the Hawks, who had won a franchise-record 22 in a row in The Omni before hitting the re­cent skid. 
Webb scored 26 points, Dominique Wilkins 21 and Kevin Willis 20. Kevin Gamble scored 24 points and Reggie Lewis 21 for the Celtics, who lost for only the second time in nine games. 
The Hawks used a 7-0 run in the final 1:49 of the first period to take a lead they never lost. 
Rockets 98, Tlmberwolves 
85 

The Houston Rockets, getting 25 points and eight blocked shots from Hakeem Olajuwon, tied a franchise record with their ninth consecutive victory. 
The Rockets matched the record of the 1976-77 team, which went 9-0 to begin March of that season. Olajuwon scored Houston's first seven points ­he had 13 in the first period ­and the Rockets never trailed. 
The Timberwolves stayed in the game on the strength of 19 first-half points by Tony Campbell, who finished with 32, two short of his season high. Sam Mitchell added 26 points and 13 rebounds for Minnesota. 
Olajuwon made 11 of 15 shots and had 14 rebounds. Kenny Smith added 20 points for Houston. 

Hull becomes only third to score 80 goals in a season; Devils over Penguins 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) ­Brett Hull became the third NHL player to score 80 goals in one season as the St. Louis Blues ended a six-game winless streak and stalled the Washington Capitals' playoff drive Tuesday night with a 2-1 victory. 
Hull's first-period goal put him in a select club that had previously been occupied by only Mario Lemieux and Wayne Gretzky. 
Kelly Chase scored the 
game-winner in the second pe­riod for the Blues, who pulled within three points of first-place Chicago in the Norris Division. The Capitals, who got their lone goal from Kelly Miller, fell to fifth in the Patrick Division, one point behind fourth-place Philadelphia in the Patrick Division. 
Devils 5, Penguins 4 
Patrik Sundstrom's second goal of the game with 4:34 re­maining in regulation time capped a three-goal third pe­riod comeback as New Jersey beat Pittsburgh. 

The victory moved the Devils into third place in the Patrick Division, one point ahead of Philadelphia and two ahead of Washington. The loss ended the Penguins' seven-game unbeaten streak. They lead the division by one point over the New York Rangers. 
The Devils trailed 4-2 enter­ing the third period, but early goals by Zdeno Ciger and Brendan Shanahan tied the scored before Sundstrom de­flected a shot by Bruce Driver from the left point past goal­tender Tom Barrasso for the game-winner. 
Bruins 1, Whalers 1 

Doug Houda scored his first goal of the season midway through the second period as Hartford tied Boston. 
Dave Christian scored Boston's lone goal at 1:33 on the Bruins' first shot of the game. 
Kay Whitmore made 27 saves for Hartford, which moved into third place in the Adams Division, one point ahead of Buffalo. Andy Moog stopped 21 shots for the Bruins. 
Oilers 7, Nordlques 6, OT 
Mark Messier scored with 26 seconds remaining in overtime, enabling Edmonton to win de­spite a five-point night by Quebec's Joe Sakic. 
-

The Observer accepts classllleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline lor next-day classllleds Is 3p.m. All classlfieds must be prepeld. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

Needed: Ride to Fort Meyers-TICKETS SUPER SLIDE SHOWIII FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING 
_ 
Naples. Florida area lor Easter break. Will VANESSA 272-9305. **NEED EXTRA GRADUATION'* Right before AnTostal's TYPING AVAILABLE ........ TICKETS ****** Midnight Movie (Rocky Horror Would you be secure enough in your 
.__N_o_nces__.l­
r·..~;·.;;~r

287-4082 WILL PAY$$$ FOR ANYONE Picture Show) there will manliness to wear a tutu while playing 
NOT USING THEIRS be a slide shawl II you want basketball? No? Well, we are. That's right. RESUMES .. PROFESSIONAL QUALITY. GRAD. WEEKEND CALL JOHN 289-9654. to see yourself and your We're 5 Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Wear CALL272-5667. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY friends on the BIG SCREEN Tutus While Playing Basketball. And we will 
219-291-7153. $$$$$ on the quad please submit own Bookstore. Hear us roarllllll Central America Week SENIORS photos of the wild and zany 3 Bedroom House Need One Grad. Tlx times you've had at ND/SMC 1991 BENGAL BOUTS Central America lunch Close to Campus Call Kim x2669 to the Information Desk In PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE: $555 Month + Deposit $$$$$ LaFortune BEFORE MARCH 28 Thursday, March 21, CSC Ten Month Lease (Easter Break). Put photos In *Mo Elevado 232-3616 THE BOX at the desk. Photos 'Mike Glassletter 
._PERSONALS
____.L
11:30-1:30 $3.00 of past AnTostais (mudpits, 'Lloyd Adams 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT-Resumes....Prolessional quality 272-5667. jello wrestling ...) are 'Bill Kempf -authentic central american food Call before the BEST houses are gone 233-(Tom Williams) encouraged. No alcohol In 'AI Nicgorski -visiting El Salvadoran students will discuss 9947. photos. All pictures with 'Howie Lanser their country and its stnuggles WITH BEST WISHES name, address, and phone# 'Sandy Gill 
GET YOUR REAR IN GEAR Wedding Consunant lor N.D/ on back will be returned. 'Larissa Godish LOST/FOUND Reserve a 5,4, 2 bedrm. SMC students. Phone 272-5640. Questions call Rob (x4478) or 'Sean Kenney house lor '91-'92 yr. stop by SUB office. 'Reggie Leach 
Someone acc1c:tently picked up 288-5653 or 234-3831. my long gray tweed winter FREE AEROBICS CLASSES SUPER SLIDE SHOW -Don11orget....the awards banquet is coat with a velvet collar Summer sublet. 6110 to 8120, rent STEPAN CENTER BE A PART OF ITIII WEDNESDAY, 
Saturday night at a party on negotiable. Full house. Good neighborhood. March 20th, 6:00pm in the Monogram Room Notre Dame Ave. A similar Call232-8783 7-9 pm. wl NO Senior Kris Tortorella attheACC. 
coat was left behind. If you Open to all stud. & faculty NEEDED: Ride from St.louis on April 1.Call have it please call Karin at Available. 2 Student Rental Homes lor 12:15-1:15 every MWF Theresa at x3425. YOUR ATTENDANCE IS STRONGLY x1992.) 1991-1992 school year. Call232-5411 (9 Starting Wed. 20th March SUGGESTEDIII 
A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to 5 P.M. Monday thnu Wednesday, March 27, Is (Let me know if you can't make It) Found: Ten-Speed Bicycle outside the Friday). SEE YOU ALL THEREIIIIII Architecture Bldg. WARNINGIll Engineering Sweatshirt Dayl Call Tom H. at 289-7925 or come lind me in TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR -Amy the architecture building. NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE IDEAL FOR 5-The floods are coming in Join your fellow geeks and sport your 
7 PEOPLE OTHER 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT 31 daysl Make sure your Engineering sweatshirts next Wednesday I Some CB Tour Catch-Phrases: LOST: Brown leather ID holder AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF NO 2773097 house willlloatl ' You know, this place Is nice with $$$$ at bookstore or HEYFARLEYIII and all, but where does a library on 311. Reward if all ANYTHING GOES For Only $1011 regular guy like me go to
I FORSALE I

Is returned. Teresa 271-9299 91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC? Need Who Are You Kidding??? unload some lumber? 
IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOMEI 3 BDRM roommate? Call David love, • The Menstrai Boy. LOST: multicolored cloth changepurse. lost HOME FOR SALE BY OWNER. (NO '90) 217-753-1641. The Men of KEENAN HALL *GRIMACE! between Main Circle and PW. Great FIREPLACE, CiA, FMRM W/BAR. MOVE­• I think I'm gonna HURL sentimental value. You can keep the IN COND.15 MIN WALK FROM NO. APPT CONDO FOR SALE ADOPTION: Happily married loving couple change, just give me the changepursei Call ONLY. 234-8116, EVE. OAKHILL CONDOMINIUMS wish to adopt. We promise a line education, Ill PROFESSORS... Ill Robyn at 2906. Gracias. financial security, and the best of all our 
Tandy 1000EX/IBM compatl 4 bedroom & 3 bath hearts. Expenses paid. legaVconlidential. ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD ON A 5.25" int dr/3.5" ext dr/color all appliances Call Tom and Debbie collect 212-866-8315. FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU GOING TO mntr/Deskmate prgm + others/ pool/clubhouse BERMUDA? ARE YOU JUST GOING blank 3.5" disks. $500 or B.O. 1/2 mile from campus AWAY THIS SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT 
In Massachusetts seeks enthusiastic stall: Connie X7177 $78,000 CHRONIC DESIRE THE HOUSE? WSI, lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all land RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS & water sports, fitness, gymnastics. ROUND TRIP TICKET Greg-Nancy LaVigne McCORMICK$ * FRIDAY ' 3/22 LOOKING TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR piano/play lor shows, drama, judo, dance, TO BOSTON (314) 965-0480 HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING archery, photography, computers, model FOR EASTER ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE SUMMER rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, Big Monicas and Cind(erella).... c SESSION. NO NEED TO WORRY THIS newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, RN. 3-28 to 4-1 Here's to looking forward to that h SUMMERI CALL ANYTIME ...283-­
6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie must be male awesome party on April281111 Watch out r 3470...PLEASE LEAVE A MESSAGE IF Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800-955-277-9366 E.T.I I still want to know who's gonna 0 GONEI CAMP. bJrt my feelings?! It's my party and I'll n CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER' 
Eat your Easter Candy at cry Ill want tal REFERENCES UPON REQUEST. HomeII liza c SUMMER JOBS Round-trip USAIR tickets lor ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Philadelphia lor sale D PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Leave: Thurs./Retum: Mon. NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR??I e 
GUATEMALAN IMPORTS University of Notre Dome LoFortune Studlllt Center sortnRoom -.rch1NI! 'In, •·  
Punes, hels, llells, VIlli, Other ICCI180r111, end lredltlonel Gueltmele" clothing end weaving. A • or S11les goes b11ck to Gu11lem11lelo buy books a. tchool supplies for children.  

... 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE Reasonable II Student Activities has s PLACID. CALL Call Sally x3783 positions available lor I 1-800-343-8373. LaFortune Building Managers r 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a Stepan Building Managers e EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK READING car? Good rates. Call me lor a quote 9:30-Information Desk Friday night@McCormicks BOOKS AT HOME. 6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. Gorch Games Room 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 24-Hr lounge Monitors THERESA FORST IS 20 TODAYIII 
286-IBM compatible AT,1ram, 30 mgb. Sound Technicians Let's gather together, get In '"ATTENTION JUNIORS*"' hd+20 mgb. hd (not installed)+2400b Theodore's Monitors & DJs the shower and do the 
-
NEED A ROOMATE FOR NEXT modem+ high density ~rive+lots of installed Stop by Dooley Room Rumpleminti Tomorrow we'll throw her out SCHOOL YEAR AT CASTLE software+ introduction to MS-Dos. In 1st Floor LaFortune on with last POINTIII CALL DOUG AT X2051 excellent condltions.v$1200 Thurs., March 21 5-7pm week's garbage ... Call alter 7p.m. 232-3330 for details & application. Happy BirthdayII love, Tltanka 

-
page 14 Scoreboard Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
NHL STANDINGS 
Exhibition Baseball 
All Times EST 
WALES CONFERENCE 
All Times EST Patrick Division 
AMERICAN LEAGUE w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Dlv w L Pet.Pittsburgh 38 5 315 24-11-2
31 81 279 14-20-3 17-13-1 New York 11 3 .786 
NY Rangers 34 12 272 20-11-6 13-12-5 10 .769
28 80 240 14-17-6 Minnesota 3 
New Jersey 31 31 12 74 
258 246 22-9-7 9-22-5 13-14-5 Seattle 8 3 .727 Philadelphia 32 9 237 17-13-6 11-14-6 7 .583
33 73 243 15-20-3 Chicago 5 
Washington 
33 34 6 72 235 243 19-13-4 14-21-2 17-12-3 Boston 7 5 .583 NY Islanders 23 10 210 14-17-6
41 56 270 9-24-4 11-17-4 Baltimore 7 6 .538 Adams Division 
California 5 6 .455 x-Boston . 41 23 10 
92 270 243 24-9-4 17-14-6 16-8-4 Cleveland 5 6 .455 
x-Montreal 37 28 10 84 260 21-12-4 16-16-6 13-11-4
234 Texas 5 7 .417x-Hartford 31 34 10 72 222 250 18-16-5 13-18-5 9-13-6 Kansas City 4 6 .400 
x-Buffalo 27 29 17 71 262 
255 12-13-11 15-16-6 10-11-7 Oakland 4 7 .364 Quebec 14 12 211 7-22-8 7-12-7 4 .333
48 40 332 7-26-4 Toronto 8 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Detroit 3 10 .231 
Norris Division 
Milwaukee 3 11 .214 w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Dlv x-Chicago 45 22 6 96 257 
192 25-8-32 0-14-3 17-7-3 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
x-St. Louis 41 11 288 21-9-7 15-11-3 L
22 93 240 20-13-4 w Pet. x-Detroit 33 34 
8 74 260 274 25-12-0 8-22-8 13-13-3 Houston 9 1 .900 
x-Minnesota 26 14 239 18-14-6
34 66 244 8-20-8 9-14-5 St. louis 8 3 . 727 
Toronto 21 9 223 14-21:3 8-17-2 7 . 636 
44 51 300 7-23-6 San Diego 4 
Smythe Division 
Chicago 9 4 .692 

x-Calgary 43 7 316 27-8-2 15-8-3 8 .667
24 93 238 16-16-5 New York 4 
x-Los Angeles 
42 23 9 93 313 233 23-9-4 19-14-5 16-8-4 San Francisco 6 7 .462 
x-Edmonton 35 5 253 20-13-3
34 75 251 15-21-2 11-13-2 Pittsburgh 5 6 .455 Vancouver 26 41 9 61 233 302 16-16-5 10-25-4 9-18-1 Cincinnati 5 7 .417 
Winnipeg 25 40 11 61 251 276 17-18-5 8-22-6 9-13-6 Atlanta 4 7 .364 
x-cllnched playoff berth Montreal 4 8 .333 

Tuesday's Games 
Los Angeles 4 9 .308 
Boston 1, Hartford 1, tie Philadelphia 3 9 .250 

Edmonton 7, Quebec 6, OT NOTE: Split-squad gamas count In standings, ties do not 

-
St. Louis 2, Washington 1 Tuesday's Games New Jersey 5, Pittsburgh 4 New York Yankees (ss) 2, New York Mets (ss) 0 Wednesday's Games Houston 8, Kansas City 6, 10 innings Montreal at Buffalo. 7:35 p.m. 

los Angeles 9, Atlanta 4 Toronto at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. 
Montreal 11, Cincinnati 7 Calgary at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
New York Yankees (ss) 8, Ba~imore (ss) 4 Pittsburgh 6, Minnesota 0 Texas 9, Chicago White Sox 0 
National Invitation Tournament 
St. Louis 11, Toronto 3 All Times EST 
Baltimore (ss) 5, Detroit (ss) 1 First Round 
Indiana HS Scoring Leaders 
California vs. Seattle at Tempe, Ariz., ccd., rain Wednesday, March 13 
Chicago Cubs 12, Oakland 11
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -State scoring leaders in basketball, as compiled by the Indiana
Providence 98, James Madison 93, 20T San Francisco 7, San Diego 6High School Athletic Association through games of March 16:Cincinnati 82, Ball State 55 

Boston 3, Detroit (ss) 1 Wisconsin 87, Bowling Green 79, OT 
New York Mets (ss) 5, Philadelphia 4 Colorado 71, Michigan 64 Wednesday's Games
G Pts Avg High Brady Adkins, Morristown 21 772 36.76 56Southern Illinois 75, Boise State 74 Boston (ss) vs. Houston at Kissimee, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
Darnell Wilcher, Morton Memorial 16 513 32.06 49
Stanford 93. Houston 86 New York Yankees vs. Montreal at West Palm Beach, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 

x-Steve Nicodemus, Whitko 25 733 29.32 40
Thursday, March 14 Texas vs. Minnesota at Fort Myers, Fla., I :05 p.m. 
Brandon Fites, North Miami 22 641 29.14 48
Siena 90, Fairleigh Dickinson 85 Cincinnati vs. Kansas City at Haines City, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
Eric Sherman, South Dearborn 21 610 29.05 43
Fordham 76, South Florida 66 Chicago White Sox (ss) vs. Boston (ss) at Winter Haven, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 

Aaron Finnegan, S'wtern (Hanover) 20 570 28.50 41
Southwest Missouri St. 57, Coppin Stale 4 7 Ba~imore vs. New York Mets at Port St. Lucie, Fla., 1 :10 p.m. 

Cole Casbon, Boone Grove 21 597 28.43 43
Memphis St. 82, Alabama-Birmingham 76 Philadelphia vs. Los Angeles at Vero Beach, Fla., 1:35 p.m. 

Lamar Morton, Muncie South 23 646 28.09 47
Arkansas St. 78, Rice 71 St. Louis vs. Chicago White Sox (ss) at Sarasota, Fla., 1:35 p.m. 

x-Aian Henderson, lndpls Brebeuf 27 755 27.96 41
Oklahoma 111, Tulsa 86 

Detroit vs. Toronto at Dunedin, Fla., 1:35 p.m. Friday, March 15 624 36
Lance Barker, Columbus East 23 27.13 
California vs. Milwaukee (ss) at Chandler, Ariz., 3:05p.m.
Dave Pugh, Winamac 22 592 26.91 39
West Virginia 86, Furman 67 Seattle (ss) vs. Chicago Cubs at Mesa, Ariz., 3:05p.m.

Chad Gilbert, Charlestown 22 584 26.55 36
Massachusetts 93, La Salle 90 San Diego vs. Cleveland at Tucson, Ariz., 3:05p.m.

Mark Lueking, Austin 22 571 25.95 45
South Carolina 69, George Washington 63 Milwaukee (ss) vs. Seattle (ss) at Tempe, Ariz., 9:05p.m. 

x-Gienn Robinson, Gary Roosevelt 29 749 25.83 41
Wyoming 63, Butler 61 
Thursday's Games

Maurice Fuller. Anderson 21 537 25.57 39 
Boston vs. Pittsburgh at Bradenton, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
Tom Gohmann, Clarks. Providence 20 510 25.50 41
Second Round Philadelphia vs. New York Yankees at Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
Gary Cooper, Wabash 20 510 25.50 44
Monday, March 18 Los Angeles vs. St. Louis at St. Petersburg, Fla., 1 :05 p.m. 
Cory DeGroote, West Vigo 21 535 25.48 41
Providence 85. West Virginia 79 Atlanta vs. Montreal at West Palm Beach, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 

Scott Shepherd, Carmel 22 559 25.41 38
Oklahoma 89, Cincinnati 81, OT New York Mets vs. Houston at Kissimee, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 

Matt Fine, Winchester 21 533 25.38 43
Stanford 80, Wisconsin 72 Minnesota vs. Texas at Port Charlotte, Fla., 1:30 p.m. 

Dave Boyer, FW Christian 19 482 25.37 
36Southern Illinois 72, Southwest Missouri State 69 Kansas City vs. Detroit at lakeland, Fla., 1:30 p.m. 

Eric Ford, S.Bend Riley 24 608 25.33 50
Arkansas State 58, Memphis State 57 Baltimore vs. Toronto at Dunedin, Fla., 1:35 p.m. 

Chad Pate, Edgewood 21 528 25.14 39
Colorado 83, Wyoming 75 Cincinnati vs. Chicago White Sox at Sarasota, Fla., 1:35 p.m. 

Ryan WoH, Martinsville 23 578 25.13 40
Tuesday, March 19 California vs. Oakland at Phoenix, 3:05p.m.
Josh Rang, Blackhawk Christian 20 499 24.95 35
Massachusetts 78, Fordham 74 Milwaukee vs. Chicago Cubs at Mesa, Ariz., 3:05p.m.

Rich Hammel, Lafayette Jeff 23 571 24.83 43
Siena 63, South Carolina 58 San Diego (ss) vs. Seattle at Tempe, Ariz., 3:05p.m.

J.B. Neill, Eastern (Greene) 22 545 24.77 43 
San Diego (ss) vs. San Francisco (ss) at Scottsdale, Ariz., 3:05p.m. 
Quarterfinals Andy Elkins, Ev. Bosse 19 467 24.58 36 San Francisco (ss) vs. Cleveland at Tucson, Ariz., 3:05p.m.
Andre Owens, S.Bend Riley 25 609 24.36 38
Wednesday, March 20 x-Team still In state tourney
Oklahoma (18-14) at Providence (19-12), 8 p.m. Thuraday, March 21 Stanford (17-13) at Southern Illinois (18-13), 8:35p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS
Arkansas State (23-8) at Colorado (17-13), 9:30p.m. Massachusetts (19-11) at Siena (25-9), 7:35p.m. 

NBA STANDINGS
BASEBALL At Madison Square Garden American League All Times EST New York TEXAS RANGERs-optioned Gerald Alexander, EASTERN CONFERENCE Semifinai:; Cedric Shaw, Roger Pavlik, Barry Manuel and Atlantic Division Monday, March 25 Mark Petkovsek, pitchers, and Rob Maurer, w L Pet. GB Championship infielder, to Oklahoma City of the American x-Boston 49 18 .731 Wednesday, March 27 Association. Optioned Robb Nen, pitcher, and Jose Philadelphia 36 29 .554 12 Hernandez, infielder, to Tulsa of the Texas League. New York 33 33 .500 151/2 Returned Dan Smith, pitcher; Ivan Rodriguez and Washington 23 41 .359 24112 Barry Winford, catchers; and Dan Peltier and Nick New Jersey 21 44 323 27 Capra, outfielders, to their· minor-league camp for Miami 20 45 .308 28
Bo Jackson's Stats 

reassignment. Central Division TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Named John Poloni x-Chicago 49 15 .766 pitching coach of Syracuse in the International x-Detroil 41 25 .621 9Bo Jackson's hip injury and subsequent League; Steve Mingori pitching coach of Knoxville Milwaukee 39 27 .591 11 in the Southern league; and Darren Balsley Atlanta 29 .561
release from the Kansas City Royals comes 37 13 
pitching coach of Myrtle Beach in the South Indiana 32 34 .485 18 after a year in which he hit for his highest Atlantic League. Cleveland 23 41 .359 26 National league Charlotte 19 46 .292 30 1/2
batting average. Below are career statistics 
HOUSTON ASTROS-Sent Harold Allen, Ryan he compiled while playing for the Royals Bowen, Keith Kaiser, Butch Henry, and Rob WESTERN CONFERENCE Mallicoat, pitchers; Tony Eusebio, Scott Midwest Division
and the Los Angeles Raiders. 
Makarewicz, Scott Servais, and Kevin Scott; Andy w l Pet. GB Mota and Andujar Cedeno, infielders; Kenny x-Utah 42 22 .656 Lofton and Bert Hunter, outfielders; to their minor San Antonio 41 22 .651 1/2 league camp for reassignement. Released Bill Houston 41 24 .631 1112 Laskey, pitcher. 
Dallas 24 40 .375 18 NEW YORK METS-Sent Terry Bross, John Minnesota 21 43 .328 21 Johnstone, Eric Hillman, pitchers, and D.J. Dozier Orlando 21 43 .328 21 
and Terry McDaniel, outfielders, and Alan Zinter, Denver 18 47 .277 24 1/2 catcher, to their minor league camp for Pacific Division reassignment. 
x-Portland 47 17 .734 PITISBURGH PIRATES-Sent Tom Nieto, catcher, x-LALakers 47 18 .723 112 and Armando Moreno, infielder, to their minor x-Phoenix 45 20 .692 2 112
.200 
league camp for reassignment. Golden State 34 30 .531 13 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Asked waivers on Seattle 30 34 .469 17 Rick Leach, outfielder, for the purpose of giving him LA Clippers 23 42 .354 241/2 his unconditional release. · 

Sacramento 18 45 .286 28 1/2 Southern League 
x-cllnched playoff berth HUNTSVILLE STARS-Named Curt Bloom Monday's Games 
.100 
director of broadcasting . Philadelphia 99. Orlando 91 Carolina League Chicago 121, Denver 108 PRINCE WILLIAM CANNONS-Named Pat Dallas 1 04, Sacramento 86 Filippone director of sales and operations. Phoenix 111, Indiana 103 
Tuesday's Games BASKETBALL 
Late Games Not Included
0 

Continental Basketball Association 
New York 97, Charlotte 79 
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 

COLUMBUS HORIZON-Announced the Atlanta 104, Boston 92 resignation of Gary Youmans coach. Houston 98, Minnesota 85 
NFL rushin 

World Basketball League 
Miami at Milwaukee, (n) WBL-Awarded a franchise to Nashville, Tenn. Sacramento at San Antonio, (n)
Average yards per rush Total yards gained Touchdowns 

HALIFAX-Announced the team nickname of Portland at Golden State, (n) 
Windjammers. Named ian MacMillan coach and LA Clippers at LA Lakers, (n) 
8.0 
1000 
1987 4 

Richard Spears and Mickey Fox assistant coaches. Wednesday's Games
... 
,§& 

Washington at Boston, 7:30 p.m. 
1988 3 

FOOTBALL 
Miami at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. 
800 

National Football League Minnesota at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. NEW YORK JETS-Signed Bill Pickel, defensive Cleveland at New York, 7:30p.m. 
1989 4
6.0 
f---ll-~­
1990 5 

tackle. 
Detroit at Philadelphia, 8 p.m. 
600
~ 

Atlanta at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
TENNIS
4.0 

Phoenix at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. United States Tennis Association 
Utah at Denver, 9:30p.m.
400 

USTA-Announced that Brad Gilbert, Rick leach, 
LA Lakers at Seattle, 10 p.m. Jim Pugh and Jim Courier have been named to the Portland at LA Clippers, 1 0:30 p.m. 
-2.0 1991 U.S. Davis Cup team. Thursday's Games
200 

San Antonio at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. COLLEGE 
Sacramento at Houston, 8:30p.m. GEORGIA SOUTHERN-Named Cliff lewis 
Charlotte at Utah, 9:30p.m. 
0 

slotbacks coach. • 
Denver at Golden Slate, 10:30 p.m. 
0 1987 1988 1989 1990 of
MORNINGSIDE-Announced the resignation Rhonda Penquite women's basketball coach. AP!Tom Lynn 
TOLEDO-Named Gary Pinkel football coach. 
1987 1988 1989 1990 


Wednesday, March 20, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Tyson-Ruddock referee stands behind call; gets kicked after fight 
Says Razor 'hurt and helpless' 

LAS VEGAS (AP) -Boxing has another controversy to go with the "Long-Count" fight between Jack Dempsey and Gene Tunney in the 1920s and the "No Mas" match of the 1980s between Hoberto Duran and Sugar Hay Leonard. 
Call this one the "No Count" or the "What Fight?" 
In the seventh round Monday night, Mike Tyson hit Donovan "Hazar" Huddock with six punches to the head that sent Huddock reeling backward. 
Ruddock didn't go down, but just before he reached the ropes, referee Richard Steele, his back to Ruddock, signaled the light was over at 2:22 of the round. 
"I said, 'What?' and then the ring was full and I realized there was nothing I could do then," Huddock said. 
Tyson had his 40th victory in 41 fights and was a big step closer to a shot at regaining his world heavyweight title. Huddock had his second defeat in 28 bouts and strong hints of a rmnateh. 
The man in the middle ­and in the spotlight -was Steele, who was escorted from the ring by security guards and later said he wasn't even sure how long the fight was sched­uled for. 
Steele had been criticized by Ruddock's camp before the fight for working too many recent bouts. He said in an interview with radio station WFAN in New York that he thought Monday's fight was scheduled for 10 rounds. It was set as a 12­rounder. 
As bedlam broke out follow­ing his decision, Steele saw Deroy Ruddock, Razor's brother and manager, headed toward him, his eyes blazing with 
AP Photo 
anger. 

Mike Tyson, right, and Razor Ruddock exchange punches during the third round Monday night in Las Vegas.
"I put a headlock on him and Referee Richard Steele stopped the fight at 2:22 of the seventh round. 
told him to calm down," Steele recalled Tuesday at a news best of rily ability. At the time I conference. stopped the fight, Razor Then other people were on Ruddock was hurt and helplessSteele. against the ropes. 
"I had a hand around my "What makes me happy is throat, then I was on the floor," that the young man standingSteele said. "I was kicked in the over there is OK," Steele said,
chest and leg. pointing to Ruddock. 
"I did an honest job to the 


• 
Day or evening classes. 

• 
Courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing 

• 
All courses applicable co Loyola University degrees. 

• 
Classes at Lovola's new Mallinckrodt.Campus in Wilmette:, as well as at the: Lake Shore, Water Tower, and Medical Center Cam­puses. 

• 
Register using any Touch-Tone telephone. 

• 
To receive your free copy of the 1991 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions, return coupon or call 


312-915-6501. 
LOYOlA UNNERSITY

0 : • "' 
i: ;;: CHICAGO
>r~·
)> 0 0 d 
'f'~l\1. 0~\' 
FIRST SESSION 6 weeks beginning MAY20 
SECOND SESSION 6 weeks beginning JULY 1 
THE SUMMER SESSIONS 820 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, IL 60611 
l..u.oiA Univertiry Chicago is an equal opponuniry educator and employer. 

Name: 
Adruc:~----------------------------------------­
City -----------State ____Zip---­
SEND TO: THE SUMMER SESSIONS, Loyola University of Chicago, 820 North Michigan Avenue:, Chicago, IL 60611 
ND 

ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage Reserve Your Space Now! 
NQ Administration Fee NQ Deposits NQ Increased Rents for 
Students 
N.O. Worries about Break­Ins While on Vacations 

.YES._Seeurity System YES On Site Manager YES Free Locks for 
Students YES Low Prices YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 

Ruddock still was not happy. 
"He turned his back on me when he signaled the light was over," Ruddock said. "When did you ever see a referee turn his 
back on a lighter when he was fense against George Foreman hurt? Tyson, who skipped the and regain the title he lo<;t last 
"When you go into the ring, Tuesday news conference, said year to James "Buster" you know your're going to get after the fight that he felt a Douglas. hit. Wasn't he (Tyson) in trou­rematch was in order. But King insists Tyson would ble? Wasn't he wobbling in the Ruddock wondered if Tyson fight Foreman but not Holyfield sixth round?" would want to fight him again. because Holyfield bypassed 
Tyson was dazed late in that Tyson for his first defense. round from several left hooks Because of the controversy Holyfield is promoted by Dan and right hands. It appeared and power punching of each Duva, who has ties to TVKO, the the tide might be turning. man, the rematch has to be at­Time-Warner Communications 
Until that I?oint, Tyson was tractive to promoter Don King, pay-per-view boxing operation. 
Knight 
continued from page 20 
hook and crook," it said. 
The commission found that academic and financial prob­lems "are so deep-rooted and long-standing they must be un­derstood to be systemic. They can no longer be swept under the rug or kept under control by tinkering around the edges. Because these problems are so widespread, nothing short of a new structure holds much promise for restoring intercol­legiate athletics to their proper place in the university." 


II A university president, it
said, "cannot be a figurehead I whose leadership applies else­1 where in the university but not I in the athletics department." I SINGLE V4LB.* HAMBURGER REGULAR SIZE The Knight Foundation, I WITH PURCHASE OF A SOFT DRINK WITH which put up some $2 million I SINGLE V4LB.* HAMBURGER SUPERBAR PURCHASE for the commission and the I ~ study, is one of the nation's 
I valid al any Soulh Bend. Mishawaka or Valid 01 any Soulh Bend, Mishawaka or largest foundations. Niles Wendy's Nol valid Wilh any oltler NileS Wendy's Nol valid Wilh any Olher It ··s wholly separate I'nde-...
I oHer Bacon. cheese and taK eXlra otter Tak eKUa. Ptease present coupon1 Please presen1 coupon when ordor""J when order~"'l pendent of Knight-Ridder Inc . 
·Net wetght before cookmg • • I COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 31, 1991 COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 31. 1991 but SUpports WOrthy CaUSeS and 
I. •••••••••---.• L----• • ------• • .I organizations in communities 
FREE : FREE : 
~::~;ap~~~~~~:~ta~~~at~:~
I ; also makes selected national I grants in journalism, higher 
• 
: 

REGULAR SIZE SOFT DRINK 
I

WITH ANY CHICKEN 
I

SANDWICH PURCHASE 
1 I

Vahd at any South Bend. MIShawaka or Niles Wendy's Nol valid wilh any other 
1

offer Bacon. cheese and laK extra Please presenl coupon when ordentlQ 
1 
COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 31, 1991 I 
controlling the action. He knocked Ruddock down in the second and third rounds. 
. Videotapes showed that the second-round knockdown was not legitimate. Ruddock was hit on the shoulder as he was turning and fell. 
There was no question about the third-round knockdown, the result of a left hook and a short right to the head. Ruddock got up at seven and the bell rang a few seconds later. 
who is seeking financial back­ers for King Vision, his pay-per­view televsion company, which made its debut with Monday night's card. 
King said Tuesday, however, that Tyson's next fight would be June 8 against Renaldo Snipes, not nearly as attractive as a Tyson-Ruddock rematch. 
Tyson~s victory put him in position to challenge the winner of Evander Holyfield's title de­

SMALL CHILl I :~~c:~:~~re~nd the field of arts 
WITH PURCHASE • "I think we can hope for a OF A SMALL CHILl • new day when we can say that ~ I young people are not being Vllrd at any Sooth Bend. MIShawaka or I shortchanged by being intro­
6 

Niles Wendy's Not vaiMI With any Other I I duced into a system that they
oHer Cheese and tax extra Please pre· ..: d sentcouponwhenordemu [..........._] I can't possibly succee in, 
COUPON EXPIRES MARCH 31. 1991 I namely, higher education," 
•---------""':!::~=~::":'i:.~~r---------i Hesburgh said. 
P REDEEM COUPONS AT 
320 L'!Y!E WAY SOUTH • ROSELAND 
OR AT ANY OTHER 0 TH BEND I WAKA OR NILES WENDY'S 


The Observer Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS 

KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (AP) ­Andre Agassi, Michael Chang, John McEnroe and Patrick McEnroe would make a pretty fair Davis Cup team. 
However, none of them will compete for the United States in its first-round match March 29­31 at Mexico. Neither will Pete Sampras, Aaron Krickstein or Jay Berger. 
The team chosen by captain Tom Gorman and announced Tuesday will include Brad Gilbert and Davis Cup rookie Jim Courier in singles, and Rick Leach and Jim Pugh in doubles. 
The selection of Leach and Pugh was no surprise; they were 4-0 in Davis Cup play last year as the United States won its first title since 1982. But be­cause a number of top players were unavailable, the choices for singles were in doubt. 
"Brad has lots of experience, and Jim is playing very well," Gorman said from Palm Springs, Calif., in a telephone interview. "They're the guys that are ready to go." 
Hours after the announce­ment, Courier beat fifth-ranked Guy Forget of France 7-6 (7-3}, 6-3 to advance to the quarter­finals of the International Players Championships on Key Biscayne. 
"I had a feeling I was going to get named," Courier said. 
"Davis Cup is in the back of my mind, but this tournament is very much in the front. This is an important tournament for 
me." 
Gorman said he asked Agassi and Chang to play, but they turned him down because of other commitments. John McEnroe also had a conflicting commitment, while Sampras, Krickstein and Berger were ruled out because of injuries. 
Gorman said he talked with much-improved Patrick McEnroe, who upset Boris Becker on Monday at the International Players Championships on Key Biscayne. But Gorman instead picked the 20-year-old Courier, who won a $1 million tourna­ment at Indian Wells, Calif., earlier this month. 
Courier is ranked 18th in the world; McEnroe is ranked 45th. 
"Jim's excitement level and availability level were off the chart," Gorman said. "He's very enthusiastic." 
Gilbert, ranked 1Oth, won two singles matches last year in the U.S. team's 4-0 victory over Mexico. His overall singles record in Davis Cup play is 7-3. 
Pugh said the circumstances that led to the selection of Courier and Gilbert underscore the large number of good play­ers now in the United States. 


A.­
• 
... 
Interested in staying and working Senior week: May 13 thru May 19. 
Work for catering-get paid plus room and board. 
Sign up by March 27 in order to stay in your own room. 
Sign up in the Catering Employment Office in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Questions call 239-5449 

Maisano 
continued from page 20 
this contest, as the sophomore pitched 6 1/3 innings of perfect baseball. Leahy's effort was tainted only in the seventh in­ning, as he allowed three runs. His six innings of perfection, however, were enough to earn him the win, raising his season record to 2-0. Tony Livorsi took over for Leahy in the eighth to earn the save with 1 113 innings of hitless pitching. 
After the four-game Southern swing, the Irish traveled north-to Seattle's Kingdome-for the College Baseball Classic. 
The Irish opened the tourna­ment Friday with a 9-6 victory over Air Force behind strong offensive performances from Greg Layson, Adam Maisano, and Matt Haas. Alan Walania earned the win for the Irish, giving up seven hits in 6 2/3 in­nings. 
Later that day, Notre Dame's Chris Michalak pitched a one-
It keeps more than 
.
memories alive. 
TI-lE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PRG;RAM® 
~~ 
American Heart &ta 
Association 'V 
This space provided as a public service. 
r 

hit shutout to lead the Irish over Northwestern, 7-0. Michalak retired the first 17 Wildcat batters as the Irish jumped out to a 5-0 lead through six innings. 
Michalak was backed up by the active bats of his fellow Irish, as Frank Jacobs blasted a solo home run, his fourth of the season, Maisano went 2-4, and Craig Counsell added three hits to lead the Irish. 
Notre Dame faced Washington in the semifinal game. Irish coach Pat Murphy earned his 200th career win with the team's 9-7 defeat of the Huskies. 
Notre Dame was down, 5-0, when the team erupted in the fifth and sixth innings for eight runs. After a four-run fifth, Maisano's three-run homer in the sixth put the Irish up 8-5, and Layson's solo shot in the eighth sealed the game for the Irish, who fought off a two-run seventh-inning push by the Huskies. 
Livorsi got the win, evening his season record at 1-1, while Washington's Todd Carson, who was blistered for five runs in 1 113· innings, was the loser. 
Notre Dame, behind Leahy, faced Washington again in the final, and escaped with a 4-2 victory to take the College Baseball Classic crown. 
Leahy was again command­ing, holding the Huskies score­less until the eighth inning. Allowing only four hits through seven innings, the righthander raised his season record to 3-0. 
Four Irish players were named to the all-tournament team. Pitcher Michalak, first baseman Jacobs, second base­man Layson, and designated hitter Maisano were all part of the 10-player squad. 
Notre Dame next faces Virginia in a three-game series beginning Friday in Charlottesville, Va. The first home game of the 1991 season will take place April 10 at Coveleski Stadium when the Irish take on the Purdue Boilermakers. 


is looking for interested and enthusiastic people to fill the following paid position: 
Graphics Editor 
•
Excellent portfolio material 

• 
First hand experience with the workings of a 


newspaper. Applicants should have graphics experience on Macintosh computers. Interested people should submit a resume and a one-page personal statement to Lisa Eaton at the Observer office by Friday, March 23 at Spm. Any questions should be directed to Lisa at 239-7471. 
The Student Union Board & 
The Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee present 
Dr. Celeste Colgan 
Deputy Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities 
AnAde<pate C<re Curriculum & theFutureofAmerican Ikmocracy 
7:00 PM Thursday, March 21 AnnenburgAuditorium (Snite) 
! 

-
~ate •ludent union 'iT! PF.\.iT UNION BOAR() 

--~----------~----------------~------------------------­
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Teams gambling on Bo despite injury 
(AP) -Imagine Bo Jackson for $1. Not the baseball card. The real thing. 
At that price, is he a bargain or a bust? A day after the Kansas City Hoyals suddenly releaSI\d him because of a bad hip, teams scrambled to see if he's worth the gamble. 
The New York Yankees, in love with Jackson for nearly a decadB, got the first shot Tuesday when he went on the waiver wire at 2 p.m. EST. 
"We're looking into it, trying to get the facts on it," Yankees BXBcutive vice president Lnonard Kleinman said Tuesday. "When we get them, we'II look into it." 
But, it may not matter. Jackson can turn down any team that claims him and in­stead become a free agent. If that happened, look for the Los Angeles Dodgers to be right there waiting to sign him. 
Jackson said the Dodgers and Yankees would be among the teams he'd like to play for. But, for a lot of reasons, Los Angeles likely would be his No. 1 choice, with everyone else a distant second. 
"Bo is extremely talented," Dodgers general manager Fred Claire said. "We would have in­terest, like we would in any player that was available." 
The Dodgers spent millions in the ofT-season for free-agent outfielders Darryl Strawberry and Brett Butler. They also have Kal Daniels in the outfield, but the prospect of adding the two­sport star would be a natural for the team, the city, the player and his family. 
Jackson's agent, Richard Woods. said some teams called Tuesday to ask about Jackson, whose hip injury in an NFL playoff game threw his future into doubt. Woods did not iden­tify which teams called, but said the Yankees were not among them. 
"I expect he will be claimed by someone, but I wouldn't be surprised if he isn't," Woods said. "A team will have to make a $2.375 million gamble that they're right. But we think it's worth it." 

Jackson, meanwhile, will wait and see. 
"Whoever decides to pick me up, if I am picked up, I will play for," Jackson said. "If not, I'll try out for somebody and I'll make the team." 
No one, though, really knows Bo. Even if he is claimed, he and Woods are the ones that hold the bargaining position, not the team. 
Jackson, 28, hit a career high .272 and led the Royals with 28 home runs last season despite missing five weeks with a shoulder injury, hurt while trying to make a diving catch in center field at Yankee Stadium. He hit 109 homers and stole 81 bases in four full years, and was MVP of the 1989 All-Star game. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Navy, 
Air Force, and Army ROTC will sponsor a 5K run on March 24 at Stepan Center at noon. Registration is at 11 a.m., and the entry donation is $3.00. All proceeds go to financially troubled families of servicemen in the gulf. 

•The 
Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start training now. 

•Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's sailing team: We will be starting mandatory practices Monday, March 18, for all members who would like to participate in the Freshman Ice Breakers. Practices will be held every day at 2:30 p.m., rain or shine. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 

•Early 
Bird aerobics in the JACC, class meets in gym 1 every Monday and Wednesday morning from 6:30-7:30 am. Sign up now in the NVA office. 

•Boxing 
Club banquet:All Bengal Bout boxers arn invited to a banquet tonight at 6:00 pm in the Monogram Room. 

•Free 
aerobic classes offered in Stepan Center every MWF, 12:15-1:15. Classes begin 3//20. 

•Any 
teams interested in playing in the Bookstore Basketball Hall of Fame game should submit their applications to the S.U.B. secretary by Friday, March 22. 

•Irish 
Insanity will meet tonight in the Dooley room in La Fortune at 7:00pm. All are welcome. 


is now accepting applications for 

COMMISSIONER POSITIONS 
during the 1991-92 school year. 
Applications can be picked up at the Secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
** The deadline for submitting applications is 
Friday, March 22. 

NCAAs 
continued from page 20 
sophomore Geoff Pechinsky add solid depth to the epee squad. 
"We finished thirrl (last year)," said Auriol. "Everybody expected us to do better. We want to be where we are sup­posed to be. If everybody fences to their potential, we should bP in the top two (teams). 
By sometime this coming Sunday, the Irish will know if all that practice will result in the crown they're after -a national championship. "We finished third (last year)," said Auriol. "Everybody expected us to do better. We want to be where we are supposed to be. If e'Verybody fences to their potential. we should be in the top two (teams). 
By sometime this coming Sunday, the Irish will know if all that practice will result in the crown they're after -a national championship. 
Leahy 
continued from page 20 
change," said coach Pat Murphy. 
Tookie Johnson of the Tigers broke up the perfect game in the seventh with a single to left. The Tigers ended up scoring three runs in the inning before Leahy got two ground outs to end it. 
"I was expecting it, I just didn't know when it was com­ing," said Leahy referring to Johnson's hit. "I haven't thrown a no-hitter since little-league, let alone a perfect game." 
Leahy's next performance was just as masterful, in front of a hometown crowd in Seattle. Leahy, from Yakima, Washington, pitched seven scoreless innings, leading the Irish to the College Baseball Classic Championship. 
"He's learned to become a pitcher, not just a thrower," explained Murphy. "He's had a ­lot of pressure on him, and he's learning to settle into his own expectations, not everyone else's." 
Leahy will get another start this weekend, as the 18th­ranked Irish meet Virginia for a three-game series.The expectations are high for the Irish, especially after their near miss last season . 

..... ... .."' ................."" .... ~ ...... "..,...............-... -.... -----..... "' -... -­
'"" "' ..........~ .... -."'
-..............-...-.·-----.-.-.........···-··----·---···· .......... --~ ......................, .. 
page 18 
Women's golf team goes south, takes fifth at tourney 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team left freezing South Bend and flew to Tampa, Fla. to compete in the Snowbird Invitational hosted by Northern Illinois. The Irish finished in 5th-place with a two-round score of 669. 
"Overall I was quite pleased. I expected all our girls to score close together and they did. The course was in decent condition, but we had the good fortune to play on some courses in quite good condition. I was able to get us on Tampa Palms, which is where they play a Senior PGA tour event," said Irish coach Tom Hanlon. 
The tournament was won by Iowa State, which finished with a total of 648. Northern Illinois and Kansas State were one and three shots back respectively. The Irish were at a disadvan­tage because both Iowa State and Northern Illinois had played in a tournament in Orlando earlier in the month. 
Sophomore Kathy Phares 
posted the best score for the Irish shooting rounds of 85 and 
80. Those two scores were good enough to place her 9th overall in the individual competition. 
"Kathy had the opportunity to have the low round in the tournament on Saturday, but she came in the last 5 holes 5 over," said Hanlon. 
The Irish also received a strong performance from cap­tain Roberta Bryer, who had rounds of 85 and 81 for a two round total of 166. Those scores tied her for 1Oth-place in the individual competition. 
"Roberta Bryer had a very se­rious case of bronchitis before we left for the tournament. She really didn't get over it until the end of the tournament, so her scores are all the more impres­sive, " continued Hanlon. 
The Irish's remaining scores were Chrissy Klein (85-84-169), Cappy Mack (85-84-169). Pandora Fecko (87-88-175), and Allyson Wojnas (86-90­176). 
"I think we're going to be better this spring than we were last fall," concluded Hanlon. 

Men's golf has rocky start Last place finish not unexpected 
BY RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
Usually when a team finishes last both the players and the coach are very disappointed. That was not the case in the 11th Annual Budget -UCF Golf Classic in Orlando, Fla., where the Notre Dame men's golf team finished last in a field of 18 teams. 
As Irish coach George Thomas put it, "We were com­peting against all sun-belt schools. I figured we'd finish last and we did." 
The tournament was won by powerhouse Arizona, which fin­ished with a team total of 880. The University of North Carolina and Central Florida finished second and third with totals of 882 and 887, respec­tively. 
The individual competition was won by North Carolina's Pat Moore, who fmished with a 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
tively. Harris again played strong, routing Laura Flynn 6­1, 6-0. Faustmann, Tholen, and Terri Vitale also posted straight-set wins for the Irish at singles. Barton-Faustmann, Ann Bradshaw-Tholen, and Eniko Bende-Kristy Doran scored doubles victories. 
The team continued its strong play against 12th-ranked Texas, but the Longhorns were too much for the Irish and 
-pulled out a 7-2 win, though the match was much closer than the score indicated. Melissa Harris and Lisa Tholen scored the only wins for the Irish. 
Harris, who did not lose a match over break, beat Carla Cossa, the 23rd-ranked player in the country, by a 7-5. 6-4 score at second singles. Harris total of 216 (70-73-73). 
The Irish finished with a three round total of 968 (328­319-321) and were led in the individual scoring by sopho­more Chris Dayton who had rounds of 82-76-80 for a total of 238. 
"I was very proud of the kids. It rained 5 of the 8 days we were there, so we didn't get to practice much. We were playing under different conditions with the Bermuda Grass and we had trouble scoring because our short game was off," said Thomas. 
Other Irish scores were Mike Crisanti (79-81-81-241), Joe Dennen (83-82-79-244), Paul Nolta (84-81-81-246), and Mike O'Connel (88-81-81-250). 
"I was particularly pleased with my 3,4, and 5 players, but without naming names, my number 1 and 2 players did not play up to their potential," said Thomas. 
remained at 44th in the latest singles poll. Tholen defeated Joanna Plautz 6-4, 6-1 at the number-four singles slot. 
At first singles, Barton dropped a 7-6, 6-3 contest to Susan Gilchrist. "It gets tough after a while." said Barton. "I have to play a top-30 girl al­most every time. It's hard to get yourself back up the next day. Everyone is playing well, but at different times. We have to get it together and have everyone play well on the same day." 
"We're 21st now, " continued Barton, "but so much can hap­pen between now and then (NCAA tournament selection). If we get in as a team it would be great, a little bit extra after the long season." 
Louderback expects the team to drop in the next rankings, but to still stay in the top 25 if they do not lose this weekend. The Irish will have another long weekend, hosting Oklahoma, Michigan, Ohio State, and 

The Observer Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Digger denies Globe report 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps says a report that he's quitting is unfounded. 
"It's not true at all," Phelps told WNDU-TV after the Boston Globe reported Xavier coach Pete Gillen would take his place. 
"Number one, I have not resigned," Phelps said. "Number two, I think Peter is still coaching at Xavier. We know what's in front of us. I took a week off, and I'll be in Indianapolis for the Final Four. 
"I can't control what media want to say, what people want to say. The only thing I'm say­ing is the rumors are false." 
Gillen says he hasn't been approached about the job and doesn't believe that Phelps would either quit or be fired. 
"That's hard for me to be­lieve," Gillen said. "They haven't contacted me. I haven't contacted them. So how can that happen? 
"Somebody's assuming they would offer it to me, which isn't necessarily so, and they're assuming I would take it, which is not a fait accompli." 
Gillen was an assistant coach to Phelps at Notre Dame for five years before getting the Xavier job in 1985. Since then, he has taken the Musketeers to the NCAA tournament six consecutive years. 
Each spring, Gillen's name is linked to a head coaching job at some big-time program. Each spring, Gillen says he's content to stay at the 6,500­student Jesuit school, where he is under contract through the 1994-95 season. 
"It would be tough for me to leave here," Gillen said. "I don't know if I would leave here. I'd have to look at it, talk to my family. 
"Notre Dame is a special place, but so is Xavier. It just doesn't get the fanfare. 
"At one time, Notre Dame was one of several 'dream jobs' to me. But I've got a great situation now." 
Gillen said he knows nothing about rumors that Phelps will either move up to associate athletic director at Notre Dame or athletic director at Indiana. 
Phelps has said he will not resign, and Gillen said Notre Dame would have little basis for firing Phelps, even with a 12-20 record this season. 
"It'd be pretty tough to fire a guy with the success Digger has had there," Gillen said. "I hope it doesn't happen." 
Jim Daves, associate sports information director at Notre Dame, said the rumors were off-base. 
"To the best of my knowl­edge, we haven't contacted anybody. Digger Phelps is our head coach," Daves said. "We have no plans for a press con­ference for anything." 

Divers compete in NCAA Zone meet Hyer, Kipp fall short in bid for shot at NCAA finals 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame divers Sean Hyer and Jenny Kipp competed in the NCAA Zone meet at Ohio State University March 15-16. 
Diving powerhouses Ohio State, Minnesota and Michigan led a highly competitive field in which divers vied for the top spots in both 1-meter and 3­meter diving events. Only the three highest point winners ad­vanced to the NCAA champi­onships. 
"It's one of the hardest zones in the country, especially with the Big Ten schools," said Irish diving coach Tracy Brennan. 
Both Hyer and Kipp dove consistent meets despite the fact that their scores didn't re­flect their performances. Hyer 

American Heart Association 
Boston College on Friday through Monday respectively. 
"None of these teams hits the ball like a Texas or a San Diego State," said Louderback. "All of them are solid, and the matches should be good, but I think we should come out on top. Tracy is back and she's playing much better. You can see that Christy (Faustmann) is getting stronger all the time, and Melissa is just playing superbly. We're much healthier now." 
While the Irish get a breather from top 25 competition, they do have four matches in four days, which makes for a long weekend. These are important contests for the Irish, to boost the confidence of the team after the spring break trip. The team will be outdoors as often as possible for the rest of the sea­son. 
Said Faustmann, "I think we have enough fight left in us to put these setbacks aside and play our best. We are anxious to redeem ourselves." 

Jenny Klpp 

placed 14th out of 26 on the 3­meter (432.85 points) and 23rd out of 31 on the 1-meter with 
381.80 points. 

"Given the competition at zones and it being his first time there I think he dove really well," said Brennan. 
Although Hyer, a freshman, reached his goal of placing in the top 15 at Zones, Brennan forsees Hyer at the NCAA's. "I have no doubt he'll qualify for NCAA's, if not next year by his junior year." 
Kipp also surpassed her sea­son goals by meeting the quali­fication score for Zones twice and with higher scores since qualifying in December. Kipp placed 25th out of 31 with 
301.25 points on the 1-meter at Zones. 
"I definitely think it was a very successful year. We have more depth and talent," said Brennan. 
Looking to her third year as diving coach, Brennan expects divers Angela Gugle and Jenny Stumm will also qualify for Zones. As for now, Brennan views spring training as a good opportunity for the Irish divers to work on their mechanics and board work. 


~TUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF 
This limited Edition Collectors Stein is now available to YOU at a GREATLY reduced price!!! 
Will make for ideal Commencement and parting gifts. STOP IN NOW 



----------------------------------------~----------~---..---------------------~--------------------~--~--------­
Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


30 Uniform 47 Dolley Madison, 550boeand --Payne bassoon
31 Coin of Yugoslavia 49 Muslim 56 Field mouse 
supernatural 57 Author Hunter 32 Kind of party beings 58 Reporter's33A Guthrie 
51 Zeal concern 34 Sound state 
53 Animals of a &3Self 36 Home of Jimmy region 
64 Englishand Rosalynn 

54 Church officer cathedral city 39 You, to Hans 

SATURDAY, MARCH 30-SUNDAY, MARCH 31 
SIGN UPS BEGIN MARCH 20 WITH THE SECRETARY ON 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
$35 CHICAGO! 
5:15p.m. Mass in honor of Archbishop Romero. Sacred 
ACROSS 2sGel 59 Quiz pt. 
Heart Church. Sponsored by Campus Ministry and 
26 Wading birds &o White or fire 
Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 1 Amino and 
follower
tannic--28 Ewes 
61 Finished
7 p.m. Film. 'The Pirate." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 6 Eager 32 Finn's friend 
62 Half: Prefix 
Mus1mm. 10 Emulate Earhart 35 Faucet 64 Chopin work 
8 p.m. Recital, Harold Brock, tenor, Graduate Student, 13 Dohnanyi et al. 37 Part of T.A.E. 
65 Rules
Northwestern University. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's Col­38 Latticed gazebo 
14 Yearn (for) 66 S-shaped curve

lege. Sponsored by music department of Saint Mary's Col­40 National park in 
15 Pasha and 67 Like graph 

leg,~. 
Mont.
Baba paper

9 p.m. and 11 :15 p.m. Film. "White Palace." Carroll 
16 Roebuck's 42 Word of woe 68 U.S.N.A. grad. 
Auditorium. Saint Mary's College. 
partner 431mmerse 69 Antarctic sea
9 p.m. Film, "Death in Venice." Annenberg Auditorium, 17 Fairy-tale 45 Minerva, to 
10 "The Best-
Snite Museum. opener Plato 
of Our Lives" 18 Donated 46 Heights in the LECTURES 19 Hatred, in DOWN
Middle East Orvieto 48 More irritable 20 Baby's need: 50 Affirmative 
1 Fabulist 
4 p.m. John Olin Lecture Series, "Michael Oakeshott's 
Abbr. 2 Statement of 
52 Actress Jones 
Place. in Contemporary Thought," Timothy Fuller, profes­
belief21 Chest feature 
sor, rhe Colorado College. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. 56 Attractive but 
3 "... bombs23 Stateroom superficial
Sponsored by Jacques Maritain Center. 
bursting-"
"window" display 4 PBS "Mystery"4:~5 p.m. Lecture, "The Archaeology of Gen­author der,. Margaret Conkey, archaeologist, University of Cali­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Draft org. 
forma-Berkeley. Room 131, Declo Faculty Hall. Spon­6 Handsome man somd by gender studies program. 
1 Price of "Mystery"
7 p.m. Lecture, "Fighting the Energy War at Home: 
8 Bus. abbr. 
What's Wrong with Bush's National Energy Strategy," by David Draft of Nuclear Energy Information Service. 120 9"Mr.-Goes 
to Town" 
Cushing. Sponsored by Students for Environmental Ac­tion. 
10 Blemish 
7:30 p.m. Anthropology Lecture Series, "Gender in the 11 Not taped Archaeological Past," Margaret Conkey, archaeologist 12 Belgian river University of California-Berkeley. Auditorium, Galvin Life 15 "Mystery" 
author
Science. Sponsored by anthropology department, gender 
20 Scorching
studies program. Year of Women Committee and Office of 
22 Legal thing 
the Provost. 
24 Cad
8 p.m. Lecture, "The 1989 Jesuit Martyrs of El Sal­
27 Droop
vador," Fr. Paul Tipton. Association of Jesuit Universi­
29 Nobelist Wiesel 
ties. Keenan/Stanford Chapel. Sponsored by Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministrv. 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER
Barb1~que Ribs Turkey Cutlet London Broil Beefi'Vegatable Stir Fry
Noodles Romanoff Cheese Ravioli Deli Bar 
IT'S MO,t1£NTS THAT r-1AKE 
Av.IAR£ 


41 "-o'clock 

Answers to any three clues in this 
scholar" 

puzzle are available by touch-tone 44 "Mystery" phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each author minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

'(ol.lR£ 1.11' AAO DRts':>'C.\:>?." I 
DIONI £'JEN C~lL '{O\j! 
AND WI\\\ 11\t. EXTAA TIME., I CAN R£'J\t.W t-1.~ A':.'S\Gtl\~ffiTS A.NO BE 8£m.R PR£\'~R£.0 fOR CLJI..'S':> . 
I 
BILL WATTERSO~ 
I UKE. iC GH IJ'? '81-.RL'i 
so 1\\E. t-\0~\NG I'S~T R\15\-\E.D . 
~.,._---,...-~--------~ Dol''l GEl l.l?. l'U. ~IX ~'{ OWN BI<EAI<.VI\'ST. \:X:l WE 1-\(>..'J£. A~~ PR\l~'CS ? 

~~~------~--~----------------------------------------~~--~--------~------------­
Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, March 20, 1991 
Irish fencers return to familiar site of NCAA finals 
By RICH KURZ impressed me that this team is in the nation last year, and she "It's just another meet," said Associate Sports Editor one solid unit." 
will be joined by senior Anne Nowosielski. "If I do that The moment is here. Ever All of the top competition for Barreda. Barreda finished (worry). I'll get all stressed. I since last year's NCAA champi­the Irish will come from eastern eighth in the NCAA's two years, want to fence relaxed, and onships, when they came up schools, especially Penn State, before taking last year off to fence my best." just a few touches short of which in addition to hosting the study abroad. Sophomore James Taliaferro winning the title, the Irish fenc­meet is also the defending "I'm very happy with the way ended his freshman fencing ing team has been looking for­champion. Anne is fencing," said women's season by taking seventh-place ward to another shot at the "Penn State will be strong," coach Yves Auriol. "She's back at the NCAA's, garnering All­crown. said women's coach Yves to where she was two years American honors. He and 
Starting today at State Auriol, adding, "Columbia and ago." brothers Chris and Ed Baguer College, Penn., Notre Dame will Yale look like they will be good Thursday will see the begin­will also be representing Notre get that chance. The buildup competition." ning of the sabre competition. Dame in sabre. has included eight months of The meet begins today with Senior Leszek Nowosielski, a Epee was the strongest practice, including one special the first day of fencing for both Jubba Beshln three-time All-American, has a weapon for the Irish last year at week of practice over spring the men's and women's foil host of international accolades, the NCAA meet. with junior break. squads. Senior captain Phil that All-American performance. but one title has escaped him so Jubba Beshin capturing first
... 
The top members of the Leary is going after his final The third member of the men's far -NCAA champion. He fin­place and junior captain David squad remained at school for shot at a NCAA title, and he is foil squad is Jeff Piper, who ished third in the nation last Calderhead finishing third. Both two-a-day practices. hoping to improve on his 18th­finished 16th at last year's year, to go with fifth-and will be looking for similar 
"What impressed me most place finish at the NCAA's last championships. fourth-place finishes in his pre­performances this year, and was that last week of practice," season. Sophomore Noel Young Heidi Piper, sister of Jeff, will vious campaigns. The pressure freshman Greg Wozniak and said Irish coach Mike DeCicco. finished third in the nation last be the mainstay of the women's isn't getting to him at all, 
see NCAAs/ page 17

"All the things we did together year and will attempt to repeat foil team. She took second place though. 
21st-ranked women's 
Knight Commission releases report 
Revenues, academics of concern to Hesburgh, others 
tennis goes 1-3 on road 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Universities should have inde­pendent control of all athletic revenues, including income from shoe contracts for coaches, and players should be ineligible if they aren't on course to graduate in five years, a private commission declared Tuesday. 
The report by the Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics also said that schools should adopt no-pass, no-play policies and said compliance with its rec­ommendations should be veri­fied by outside auditors. 
College athletes "are brought in, used and then dis­carded like so much rubbish on the scrap heap of humanity," said the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the University of Notre Dame and co-chairman of the commission. 
The NCAA currently has a satisfactory progress rule based on a "banking of hours" concept where an athlete must average 12 hours per term or 24 hours per academic year to be eligible. 
The "banking" concept dif­fers from the commission's proposal in that it allows an athlete to store up hours through summer school or during the regular term. This allows athletes to take easy or fewer courses to concentrate on sports and make up the credits later. 
Fourteen of'the commis­sion's 22 members are current or former college presidents. The panel said the academic administrators need to take di­rect control of their athletic programs, require that student athletes get an education and make sure that the finances of the athletic programs are con­trolled by the university, not the coaches or athletic directors. 
"We would love to put the sleaziness of intercollegiate athletics to rest today," said Hesburgh. 
The commission will con­tinue to operate for another year to push its proposals. 
"We are not going away," said William C. Friday, former president of the University of North Carolina and the other co-chairman of the commission. "This is not a report that will be put away and gather dust." _ 

While the commission mem­bers arid the report were blunt in describing the problems of collegiate athletics, complaining that many have come to be governed by TV network con­tracts and private fund-raising, no institutions were named. 
Hesburgh, when asked to name some of the worst of­fenders, replied: "That's the easiest one in the world to duck." And that's just what he did. 
"At their worst, big-time college athletics appear to have lost their bearings," the com­mission report said. 
"We sense that public con­cern about abuse is growing. The public appears ready to believe that many institutions achieve their athletic goals not through honest effort, but through equivocation, not by hard work and sacrifice, but by 
see Knight I page 15 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

Mter overcoming injuries and a grueling schedule to streak to eight wins in their first eleven matches, the Notre Dame women's tennis team came up just short in its spring break matches against some top competition, winning one con­test and dropping three. 
Based on its their strong start, however, the Irish (9-6) climbed to 21st in the latest Volvo Collegiate poll, which was released over break. 
On March 7th, before break, the Irish dropped a 6-3 match at Northwestern, a key regional rival. Tracy Barton squeaked past Lindsay Matthews at first singles, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 and Melissa Harris swept Julie Willett 6-2, 6-4 at second for the only Irish singles wins. 
Coach Jay Louderback said, "We won at one and two (singles), then lost at three through six, whieh surprised me because I thought we could win at the bottom. We lost a lot of close matches against them. I think they just out-competed us." 
Notre Dame then traveled to San Diego for spring break. The team faced San Diego State, ranked 16th in the new poll, and fell 7-2. Harris and Lisa Tholen posted three-set victories at singles for the only Irish points. 
Freshman Christy Faustmann said, "This was our first out­door match and the wind was up. I guess we were a little shaky. I lost a really close match. A few points here and there and it could have changed." 
The Irish got back on track with a 7-2 win against Yale, with only Barton and Kim Pacella dropping matches at first and sixth singles, respec­
see Tennis I page 18 


Irish baseball beats 3rd-ranked LSU; improves to 12­Leahy gets Murphy snags 200th win 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR from Mobile, Ala., to New
MCC honor 

Sports Writer Orleans to play the Tulane Green Wave. The Irish faced a By ANTHONY KING difficult opponent in Tulane,
College baseball players do which celebrated their first na­
Sports Writer 

not get time off in the spring. 
tional ranking in three years

Not surprisingly, the Notre 
with a 5-3 victory. Tulane's new 

Dame baseball team spent its
Pat Leahy had a brush with stadium was dedicated just be­perfection as the 18th-ranked spring break in ballparks all fore the first night game ever Notre Dame baseball team over the country. played on the Tulane campus. 
battled Louisiana State. Against In going 5-3 for the week, Despite an early 4-0 disad­the third-ranked Tigers, Leahy the Irish (12-5) defeated third­vantage, the Irish fought back 
retired the first 19 batters he ranked Louisiana State in 
to within one run on rallies in 

faced before yielding a hit. In Baton Rouge and captured the 
the fourth and fifth innings.the Seattle Kingdome, Leahy College Baseball Classic in The Green Wave, however, held 
pitched seven scoreless innings Seattle's Kingdome. Notre the Irish, and Rob Gerdes put en route to his third victory Dame's win over Washington in 
the game away with a solo 

against no losses. The six-foot, the tournament semifinal 
home run to lead off the eighth. seven-inch Leahy was named marked coach Pat Murphy's After these setbacks, which 
Midwestern Collegiate 200th career victory. 
dropped the Irish record to 7-5,Conference player of the week Notre Dame started the break Notre Dame traveled to Baton for these performances. slowly, losing games to South Rouge to confront the third­Leahy took control early at Alabama, Michigan, and ranked Louisiana State Tigers.

LSU, using an 87-mile per hour Tulane. Mter going down 5-2 to The Irish jumped out to a 5-0 fastball and a great change-up South Alabama, the Irish fought lead through three innings, and 
to go six and 1/3 innings with­back to take a 7-5 lead into the 
extended the lead to 6-0. 

out a base runner. bottom of the seventh. The Despite a three-run seventh in­"He was throwing the fast­Jaguars, however, won the ning LSU rally, the Irish sur­ball well, and getting them out game in the bottom of the vived to win 6-3. 
with the breaking ball and the eighth on a three-run extra­Pat Leahy was the star of
base hit. Notre Dame then traveled 

see Leahy/ page 17 
see Maisano/ page 16 




