~~-­

VOL. XXIII NO. 82 WEDNESDAY I JANUARY 30, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
O'Hara, SUFR members compromise after discussion 
Demand for social space, use of Theodore's to be addressed in upcoming meeting 
By KATE MANUEL hers of SUFR and Director of O'Hara, "You're going to people are being disrespected. News Writer Student Activities Joe Cassidy, Members upset I page 5 commit to something tonight, Do you understand what I'm to discuss the use of Theodore's today. We want something def­feeling?" said a SUFH member. 
cerns to Cassidy after SUFR
After much discussion at and the allotment of social inite." Other demands addressed
members began pressuring
Tuesday's rm~eting between Pa­space in LaFortune. ·Another SUFR member said, prior to the compromise were
O'Hara to respond to at least
tricia O'Hara, Vice President of Several SUFR members ex­"You should be a liaison for us. the formulation of a racial ha­
one of their demands. 

Student Affairs, and members pressed concern that contacting If you knew how frustrated ... rassment policy, autonomy of
The compromise came after
of thn group SUFH. a partial Cassidy directly would not be a we are, it wouldn't be that hard the Office of Minority Affairs
five of SUFR's nine demands
agrnnment was made toward sufficient solution to their need to do for us. We have been very and prerogative of the Director 
were discussed without solu­
filling one of the nine demands for meeting space. Members respectful, although you have of Minority Student Affairs to
tion. Group members began
that SUFR presentnd to O'Hara said they had not been effective not respected us. We have been select his own assistants, and
leaving the meeting, expressing 
on January 21. in conveying minority needs to very civil, although you have the proposed multi-cultural
disgust as the arguments con­
O'Hara said that she would Cassidy in the past and that not always been civil." center.
tinued but no conclusions were
act as a liaison for SUFR in they wanted a prompt solution "We've been talking since I've SUFH reiterated its demand
reached.

setting up a mneting within the to this problem. been here. I'm about to gradu­for a racial harassment policy
Prior to leaving the meeting,
n1~xt two wneks between mem-She agreed to assist the stu­ate and nothing has happened.
one SUFR member said to
dents in presenting their con-I'm being disrespected and my see SUFR/page 5 
Desert Storm launches 2,600 more air sorties on Iraq 
(AP)-In partly cloudy skies, Operation Desert Storm launched more than 2,600 air sorties Tuesday against Iraq and Kuwait, the U.S. command said, and no coalition war­planes were reported lost. 
Bombers focused again on the dug~in Republican Guard, elite units that are the backbone of Iraq's defense of Kuwait. OPERATION Stevens said the attacks had 

DESERT STORM
"severely degraded" bridges, roads and other supply routes to the front, but he conceded, "I can't tell you it's cut off." 

The war and TV I page 7 State of the Union I page 6
The U.S. command reported that Navy jets again struck ves­Night scouts I page 7 sels at the Umm Qasr naval 
Nation's state of mind I 
base in southernmost Iraq, and 
page 6
hit two launchers for Iraqi anti­ship Silkworn missiles. 

well as factories on the out­
Air attacks also set a petro­

skirts of the city," said Noor
chemical complex ablaze in the 

Mohammed, 37, a Sudanesesouthern port city of Basra, 
tailor. He also said he saw at
Iran's news agency reported, 

least 25 damaged vehicles, in­
and an anti-Saddam Kurdish 

cluding a bus, along the desert
resistance group reported 
highway west to Jordan. 
heavy damage to military tar­gets in the northern oil city of "Anyone who now lives any­Kirkuk. 

where in Iraq must be crazy,"
Refugees reaching Jordan said a Jordanian woman who

told of ceaseless air attacks and 

drove through Iraq from
devastation. 

Kuwait. "It is really hell, bombs"There is a lot of destruction 
are falling all the time and
everywhere in Baghdad. I have there is fire everywhere."
seen many houses flattened, as 


AP Photo 
President Bush gestures during a speech before a meeting of religious broadcasters Monday morning in Washington. Bush said the war in the Persian Gulf is against the regime of Saddam Hussein and not the people of Iraq. See State of the union, page 6. 




Members of the HPC discuss activities of Gulf Crisis group 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Some members of the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) voicod concerns regarding ac­tivities planned by the Gulf Cri­sis Action group for this Friday. 
The group has put together a candlelight procession and prayer vigil in remembrance of the United States troops fighting in the gulf. according to Marci Poorman, a Gulf Crisis group member. 
The program commemorates the National Day for Student Activism. "It's an event that we want to be non-partisan, whether you support the war or not," Poorman said. 
The procession begins at 6:30 
p.m. on Feb. 1 at the flagpole on the Notre Dame campus and will end at the Grotto, accord­ing to Poorman. After a short prayer service, the group hopes to hold an all-night prayer vigil. A women's dorm and a men's dorm will be encouraged to send at least two representa­tives to the Grotto during a specific time in order to pass on a candle, she continued. 
Some HPC members raised concerns that the service and vigil might lose support because because of a misinterpretation of the group's stance on the war issue. 
"Our group stands for peace, against the war," explained Poorman in explanation of the group's beliefs. "Everyone says that we're against the war, (so) we don't support our troops. We really do." 
In other business: 
•Scott Harris of the Student Union Board (SUB) encouraged hall presidents to inform the dorms about the topic of Spike Lee's presentation on Feb. 2. "The topic of the lecture is cul­tural diversity," said Harris, emphasizing that while racial tensions may be addressed, they will not be the primary fo­cus. 

According to Harris, the SUB Is working to make the presen­tation a positive event support­ing racial diversity, rather than another factor fostering racial tensions. 
•
Kelly Fitzpatrick announced that SUB and Travelmore are sponsoring a Spring Break trip to Panama City Beach, Florida. The $199 fee covers the bus trip and seven night's lodging; a $50 deposit s due Feb. 8. 

•Cavanaugh 
Hall President Mike Carpin announced the Ca­vanaugh presentation of the play "While the Lights Were Out," in Washington Hall. 


Tuthill will serve as Editor-in-Chief for 1991-92 


By MONICA VANT 
Associate News Editor 
Kelley Tuthill has been named Editor-in-Chief of The Observer for 1991-92 by a majority vote of the general board. 
Tuthill is a junior American Studies major with a concen­tration in Gender Studies. She is from Hingham. Mass. 
"The next year promises to be an exciting one, with Notre Dame's celebration of its Sesquicentennial, the 20th an­Kelley Tuthill niversary of women at ND, and The Observer's 25th anniver­for her news feature on sary. I look forward to guiding Chinese students at ND. The Observer through what "Among other things, l am I'm sure will be a special committed to fulfilling our goal year." of truly being a newspaper 
. Tuthill previously served as that serves both ND and Saint News Editor, Assistant News Mary's," she said. "I will seek 
Editor, and News Copy Editor. the involvement of Saint As a Senior Staff Reporter, she Mary's students in all won a national award last year departments of the paper." 
~ 
I t 
f 
I r 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



I hereby enter 
I 

my name 1n ·the NFL draft 
It is with great pain and a heavy heart that I announce today my in­tentions to forgo my se­nior year of eligibility and enter my name in the pool for the NFL draft. 


After examining closely  John O'Brien  
all sides of the issue, I  Managing Editor  
hav!:' decided to beat the  
Feb. 1 deadline and take  

my risks with this year's draft. 
It is true that I have not played football at Notre Dame, but I have been in close counsel the past few days with Football Coach Lou Holtz. After hearing o"f my decision, Holtz issued the following statement: 
"While I have never actually heard of John O'Brien, I support fully his decision to enter the draft. Though I'm not really sure what he's done for the University of Notre Dame, I'm sure someone will miss him." 
Frankly, I was touched. 
While I haven't played organized football since eighth grade, I feel my talents speak for themselves. As long snapper for the St. Catherine of Alexandria Chargers playing against St. Rita, I snapped the ball over the head of the punter on THREE SUCCESSIVE fourth downs. He recovered the ftrst two and ran them for ftrst downs, but no dice on the third. I'm serious. 
Then, on two successive extra point tries, I snapped the ball over the head of the holder and, coincidentally, into the hands of the kicker. This was a play we called "Not Planned." If you don't believe me, ask ND junior Matt Mullarkey-he was the kicker. 
As a defensive end in the same game, I batted down one pass and got held by their tight end twice. I played such a great game that Coach Barry urged the team "not to kill him." 
It's obvious that I have the credentials to play in the NFL, if not start in place of Mike Tomczak. 
Draft experts predict my chances of going "anywhere in the ftrst twelve rounds" as "as good as Roseanne Barr's." However, I hear the New England Patriots are interested. 
For the scouts, I am packaging myself as a holder for fteld goals and extra points. I'm perfect for the position because I like to sit down and I can get my hands REALLY sticky by spitting on them. Although I've never really been a holder before, I think I've got what it takes. 
In the past few days, I have hired a lawyer (some guy named DIAL DUI) and have been in contact with several sports agents, all of whom said they would call me back later. I informed them that I had two conditions for playing in the NFL. 
First, I request at least minimum wage. Second, I want a helmet with a shaded sun visor. 
Also, I have decided to wait until later to complete my American Studies degree. I fig­ure I'll have plenty of time to do that later. 
So, to all my fellow students and loyal fans, I officially ask for your understanding and support. Oh, and Rocket-if you're reading this-I'll see you at the combines. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  
News  Sports  Systems  
Joe Moody  Rich Kurz  Mark Sloan  
Christine Walsh  Mike Murphy  
Production  
Accent  Wendy Cunningham  Graphics  
Paige A. Smoron  Lisa Bourdon  Pat Midden  
John Fischer  
Viewpoint  Circulation  
Ad  Design  Rich Riley  Bill O'Rourke  
Doug Bronsing  Matt Novak  
Traci Hupp  Scoreboard  
Lisa Gunsorek  Rene Ferran  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-------~-~~---~ ­
.,.,...,,.,....,.......&1\ ,......,T 
The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Divers found with 366 pounds of cocaine 
•NEW YORK • Police scuba divers found two Colombians and 366 pounds of cocaine stowed away in the air pocket of an oil tanker's rudder shaft, where the men had weathered a ftve-day voyage, the Customs Service said. The divers found the men last week soaked and shivering in the rudder shaft of the Bright Eagle, which was anchored in New York Harbor, special agent Robert Van Etten said Monday. "This particular type of ship has an enlarged rudder housing area and we targeted it for search because of this design," said Van Etten, in charge of the Custom Service's regional office in Newark, N.J. 
OF INTEREST 

• HISPANIC-AMERICAN ORGANIZATIONwill have its ftrst meeting of the spring semester tonight at Farley Hall at 7:30p.m. Open to the public. 
.THE ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION will meet on Thursday, January 31 at 7:00 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. Various speakers will be discussing corporate accounting and its applications in today's business world. If inter­ested or have any questions, please call Chris Blanco at 283-4258. 
.THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS will be hosting a Hospitality Luncheon this Thursday, January 31, from 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. at the CSC. A smorgasbord of food will be served. All are encouraged to attend. The luncheon will benefit Dismas House. 
.ATTENTION JUNIORS: this is a reminder that you may pick up the pictures you turned in for the JPW slide show in the JPW office-third floor LaFortune!! 
.VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED for Counseling, a service of the University Counseling Center for the ND & SMC community. If you are interested, an organiza­tionaVtraining meeting will take place tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in room 300 of the Counseling Center. 

.ALL GREEK-AMERICAN STUDENTS interested in starting a Greek-American club for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students should contact Stelios 283-2847 or 277-8827 evenings. 
.THE FINANCE CLUB will hold a very important 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/JANUARY 29, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 


183.38 • 0.74
141 .27 Million 
S&P COMPOSITE 
336.07 *1.29 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2654.46 -e. 4.95 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD i1 $2.60 to $ 376.1 0/oz. SILVER 1J-3.4¢ to$ 3.817/oz. 

-.~ .... -\ Wednesday, January 30, 1991 
Mostly cloudy 
today with early ---~;.v morning flurries. 
1 

Highs from the middle to upper 20s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. Lows from the lower to mid teens. Partly sunny and cold Thursday. Highs in the middle 20's 
TEMPERATURES: 
H  L  
50  43  
56  48  
46  30  
72  68  
24  18  
68  35  
16  0  
35  19  
80  60  
68  57  
ilnianapotis  32  17  
London  37  34  
Los Angeles  63  46  
Madrid  50  30  
Miami Beach  81  73  
Moscow  10  10  
New York  50  36  
Paris  34  30  
Philadelphia  52  28  
Rome  52  28  
StLouis  49  23  
-San Ffancisco  64  42  
South Bend  35  14  

American Marine sentenced for desertion 
•CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C. -A Marine reservist who said he enlisted to help pay for college and did not plan on fighting has been sentenced to nine months in a military prison after pleading guilty to desertion. Cpl. Greg A. Dawson was charged with desertion with intent to avoid hazardous duty and missing a movement. The government dropped the second charge. Following hearings Monday, Dawson was sentenced to 30 months in the brig, to forfeit all pay and allowances, to be reduced in rank to a private and to be dishonorably discharged. But a pretrial agreement limits his confinement to nine months while the other terms of the sentence stand. 
meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in room 124 Hayes-Healy . We will discuss the upcoming Finance Forum, elections and a social event. All Finance majors and club members are urged to attend. 
.HOUSING CONTRACTS are to be returned by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, If you did not receive a contract, please come to 311 Administration Building. 
•HUMANITAS, 
the journal of the College of Arts and Letters, is now accepting submissions for the Spring issue. Essays, short stories, book reviews and cover art should be dropped off in the Humanitas box in the English Department as soon as possible. Deadline is Feb.14 

•LYONS 
HALL has changed the time of its Sunday liturgy to 11:30 AM. Previously the liturgy was cele­brated at 4:30 p.m. An invitation is also extended to join the Lyons community on any Sunday. 


.ANTOSTAL '91 GENERAL MEETING no.2 All interested in helping make AnTostal '91 "The Best Col­lege Spring Festival" please come to the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium at 9:30 p.m. TONIGHT! All are wel­come! 
•"HOW TO RESEARCH COMPANIES" This workshop will present various resources available to conduct research on companies. Tonight at 7:00-8:00 
p.m. 
in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Presented again on Thursday, January 31 at 3:30 

p.m. 
in the Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1933: Adolf Hitler was named chancellor of Germany. 

• 
In 1968: Communist forces launched surprise attacks against South Vietnamese provincial capitals in what became known as the Tet Offensive-named for the Lunar New Year. 

• 
In 1972: Thirteen Roman Catholic civil rights marchers were shot to death by British soldiers in Northern Ireland on what be­came known as Bloody Sunday. 

• 
In 1979: The civilian government of Iran announced it had decided to allow Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who had been living in exile in France, to return. 

• 
Ten years ago: An estimated 2 million New Yorkers turned out for a ticker tape parade honoring the freed American hostages from Iran. 


~-------~--~-----~ ~ 
Wednesday, January 30, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Lozano to donate 1 million 
1991 Iceberg Debates to begin 
By CHRIS WILKINSON 

for Hispanic NO students 
News Writer 

1991 ICEBERG DEBATES 
Special to The Observer 


The third annual Iceberg De­bates are scheduled to begin 
TEAM PAIRINGS 
next Tuesday with 'big-time
An executive of tho nation's 

IROUND ONE I BYE-Keenan
athletics' as the first topic of

largest daily Spanish-language discussion.
newspaper will endow a $1 
AFFIRMATIVE NEGATIVE LOCATION
The Iceberg Debates were in­

million scholarship fund to 
stituted in 1989 to "increase

benefit deserving Hispanic 
Sarin Fisher Sarin
student awareness of key local,. 

students at tho University of 
national, and international is­

Morrissey Siegfried Morrissey
Notre Dame. The fund is the 
sues" and to encourage student 

gift of Note Dame trustee 
Flanner 2 Grace 1 Flanner
debate within the dorms, ac­

Ignacio E. Lozano, Jr., editor­
cording to Suzanne Fitzgerald,

in-chief of the Los Angeles­
Breen-Phillips Cavanaugh Breen-Phillips
public relations director for the

based La Opinion and a former 
St. Ed's Zahm St. Ed's
debates.

U.S. ambassador to El Salvador. 
The debates, which begin

Acknowledging the gift, Rev. Ignacio Lozano, Jr. 
P.E. Lewis P.E.
Feb. 5, consist of six rounds of

Edward Malloy, C.S.C., Notre 
competition. Representative 

Alumni Lyons Alumni
Dame's president, said, "This of Notre Dame's Board of 
teams from each dorm partici­

most generous benefaction by Trustees in 1983 and was 
Grace 2 Carroll· Grace
pate in each of the first three

'Nacho' Lozano addresses two awarded an honorary degree 
rounds before eliminations,

of Notre Dame's foremost pri­by the University in 1990. He 
Knott Dillon Knott 
which are based on debate

orities-our need for increased served on an executive 
Stanford Badin Stanford
record, occur.

endowment for scholarships planning body and as Orange 
The fourth round, the quarter

and fellowships and our desire County, Calif., chairman of 
Flanner 1 Pangborn Pangborn
finals, is on Feb. 19. The Semi­

to increase the opportunities Notre Dame's just-completed, 
finals are being held Feb. 27

for Hispanic and other minority $450-plus million "Strategic 
and the finals are on March 5.

students to attend the Univer­Moment" fund raising 
Each dorm has a co-ed team 

IROUND TWO I BYE-Lyons
sity." campaign, the most successful 
which consists of at least two

development effort in the 
members from the dorm and at 

AFFIRMATIVE NEGATIVE LOCATION
"Through three generations history of Catholic higher 
least one member of the oppo­

my family has been blessed education. 
Siegfried Sorin Siegfried
site sex. Fisher and Grace have

with the good fortune that has Among his many previous two teams.
permitted our newspaper en­gifts to the University was a 
Fisher Morrissey Fisher
Students are chosen to partic­

terprise to nourish," Lozano contribution to the Jose 
Cavanaugh Flanner 2 Cavanaugh
ipate on teams on a first-come,

said. "I believe it is now time Napoleon Duarte Scholarship 
first-serve basis. One of the

to share this blessing with Trust, established in honor of 
Grace 1 Breen-Phillips Grace
main misconceptions of the de­

young Hispanic men and the late Salvadoran president 
bates is that participants need 

Keenan St. Ed's Keenan
women of this and future who was also a Notre Dame 
prior debate experience. The

generations who have the graduate. 
Zahm P.E. Zahm
debates are designed to in­

opportunity but not the Lozano serves on a number of 
crease communication skills

financial resources to receive a nonprofit and corporate 
Carroll Alumni Carroll
and to foster intellectual life on

Notre Dame education, with all boards, among them the values that this represents." BankAmerica Corporation; the campus. Anyone with an inter­
Lewis, Grace 2 Lewis 
est in public speaking can be­

A native of San Antonio, Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Badin Knott Badin
come involved.

Lozano was graduated from Francisco, Los Angeles branch; 
Invitations to judge the de­

Notre Dame in 1947 with a Walt Disney Company; and Na­
Dillon Flanner 1 Dillon 
bates are sent to faculty mem­

bachelor's degree in journalism tional Public Radio, and his 
Pangborn Stanford Pangborn
and joined the staff of La Opin­memberships include the Coun­bers, law students, and history 
and government graduate stu­

ion that same year. He has cil on Foreign Relations and the The Observer/Brendan Regan
dents. Those that accept the

been the paper's publisher or Knights of Malta. In rounds one and two, the to attend the round one (Feb.5)
chief editor since 1953, with Lozano and his wife, Marta, invitation must attend a semi­teams will debate the same or round two (Feb. 7) debates
nar to learn how to critique the 

the exception of his service as have four children. Jose, a son, topic: "That big-time athletics happening in their dorm. Thereproceedings.
ambassador to El Salvador in is the publisher of La Opinion, play a detrimental role in will be a question and answer
The winning dorm receives a

1976-77 by appointment of and the youngest child, Fran­American colleges and period during which students
$500 dollar prize and the trav­

President Gerald Ford. cisco, is a freshman at Notre universities." 
can voice their personal opin­eling trophy. 
Lozano was named a member Dame. All students are encouraged ions. 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. ann.ounces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of
HOTitE DAME WELCOMES 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho· analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated, For appointment call 234-5656. 





JULIAN BOND 
Civil Rights Advocate. Economic Justice Spokesperson for the I>isinherited 
PATHS OF PRAYER 
A PROGRAM DESIGNED TO EXAMINE THE MANY FORMS OF PRAYER 
PRAYING WITH SCRIPTURE, JOURNALING, LITURGICAL PRAYER, IMAGINATION IN PRAYER, ART AND PRAYER. EIGHT SESSIONS PLUS A MINI-RETREAT. NUMBER LIMITED 
Registration required. Call Sister Mary Curran, esc, 239-5242 
"Beyond The Dream" First Meeting: February 5 Thursday, January 31 
Siegfried Chapel, 7 p.m.
8:00 pm Library Auditorium Institute for International Peace Studies 
Minority Student Affairs Sponsored by Cam'pus Ministry Black Studies ND/SMC NAACP All welcome-No charge 

page4 The Observer Wednesday, January 30, 1991 
Priest from Medjugorje speaks about apparitions 
By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
The apparitions of the Virgin Mary in Medjugorje are "too good not to be true," said Fa­ther Philip Pavich of the parish in Medjugorje, Yugoslavia. 
Six local youths claim the blessed Virgin has been appear­ing to them over the past nine years, calling the world to peace, prayer, conversion and fasting. 
There has been a lot of con­troversy concerning the validity of these visions. Pavich said that there is too much evidence affirming the reality of the vis­its. He refers to the success of Medjugorje, saying that of the fifteen million pilgrims who 
.have visited Medjugorje, mil­lions have been moved and their lives changed and filled with the spirit of the Blessed Mother. He cited thousands of Medjugorje prayer groups in numerous countries in every language. 
"If Medjugorje isn't true it ought to be invented," said Pavich. "Why don't 15 million people come to each parish? They're welcome to try it. I'd love to see this imitated on a human level." 
He said that it would be im­possible for anyone to accom­plish Medjugorje success with­out supernatural intervention. 
Pavich spent some time in Jerusalem and he noted that even the location of Christ's death isn't equaling the atten­tion Medjugorje is receiving. "This doesn't happen in Jerusalem, so I thought to my­self: Where have they all gone?" 
He continued, "The answer I received was that they're going to Medjugorje. That's when I first started to think about go­ing to Medjugorje." 
Pavich said he doubts that "six ragamuffin kids, aged ten to seventeen could make it up." Pavich sees much significance in the date of the original sighting. The Blessed Virgin was first seen on June 24, and on June 25, she declared herself the Queen of Peace. 
June 24 is the feast Day of St. John the Baptist. Pavich asked, "What better day for Mary to explain herself than on St. John's feast day. St. John was the first to be the revealer of God's lamb. Mary formed that lamb. She brought him to the light of day." 

Pavich said that the location of Medjugorje creates a mysti­cal Trinity between the Church, Apparition Mountain, and the large cross erected in 1933 to celebrate the 1900th anniver­sary of Jesus Christ's death. 
With the abundance of evi­dence in Medjugorje favor, Pavich urged the audience, "to get beyond this Mickey Mouse doubting. You can't make it up." 
In response to the question of why do so many priests have a problem believing in the mir­acle of Medjugorje, Pavich re­ferred to a troublesome time in his life when he wanted to quit the priesthood. 
"Any priest can get in a blue funk," he said. He describes his own "blue funk" as a time when he was "proud, charismatic, anti-Pope, Mary and Church." Pavich concluded with the ad­vice, "Don't judge the priest. Please pray for him. We all need our mother's milk to soften us." 
Pavich also advised, "Don't let them rob you of your crosses. Keep the Cross central symbol in our lives, our masses. If Jesus and the Cross are not 'in' then we're all "'out.'" 
The presentation was spon­sored by the Queen of Peace Ministries and the Knights of Immaculta. 
The second National Medju­gorje conference will take place in the JACC, June 14-16. 
Panel talks of ordination of women 
By CAROLINE CLARKE ple women should be ordained. tuality than men. Our troubled News Writer "It misplaces the argument to world needs what they have to 
Women should be ordained as say that women have a right to offer." priests, agreed a panel of be ordained. That is no one's According to Bob Krieg, the speakers that met Tuesday right; it's a calling." She priesthood is dwindling. Despite 
continued that the Incarnation a decrease, the number of lay night at Hesburgh Library. 
was not about Jesus becoming people(men and women) is onThe panel speakers included a man, but God becoming the upswing.
Notre Dame theology professor human." Sponsored by the ladies ofBob Krieg, C.S.C. 
Mrs. Anne Seckinger sup­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's,St. Mary's theology professor ports the inclusion of women to the event was moderated by Dr.

Sr. Elena Malitz, and Notre see a renewal of the priest­John Houck, a Notre DameDame theology student Mrs. 
hood. "Women have a whole business professor. 
Anne Seckinger. 
different perspective and spiri-
As director of Notre Dame's Master of Divinity Program, Fr. Krieg sees many women with all the qualities it takes to be ordained. Asked what the future for the Catholic church might hold, he stated," I see a new understanding for what it means to be a priest. There will be a whole new range of min­istries." Fr. Krie~ asserted that the key is leadership. It is the church's job to recognize which men and women are being called by the Holy Spirit. 
"In our society, women are assuming new forms of leader­ship. The conflict that may arise is that strict cultural and sociological patterns still exist. Other societies may not accept women as readily. In the Catholic church, we try to do things universally. " 
Sr. Elena holds that in princi-



NEED SOME MONEY? 
Work Catering-JPW Sign up in the basement of South Dining Hall this week, or next week 
Mon J0-2 Tues + Fri J0-4 Wed + Thurs J-7 or call 239-5449 

Finance Club Very important meeting to discuss upcoming elections, Finance Forum, and a social event.. Wed, Jan 30 6:30 PM Rm 124 Hayes-Healy Questions? Call Derek at 234-3356. 

God gives·each pezson one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:il 1991. The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones maktng changes. Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep, has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work7 Over HALF the students in medical school today are Kaplan alumni New test7 No problem. 
l
'!i:! STANLEY H. KAPLAN 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. SOOJH AI. !1>ID Alii£. 
SUUJH Bf"'l), I~ 4f>6H 
ZJ9/27Z-41 y, 

4/27/91 MCA T Prep Class starts 2/2/91. 

Wednesday, January 30,1991 a The Observer page 5 


Members of SUFR are angered by 'disrespect' 


SUFR 
continued from page 1 
and expressed discontent with the progress that had been made in formulating such a policy. 
A SUFH membllr said, "It sellms to mil that the whole handling of the racial harass­ment policy is terrible. You should ask the students what llwy want in a racial harass­ment policy." 
Last year the Provost's office formed an ad hoc committee to talk about racial harassment and a racial harassment policy eovering discriminatory ha­rassment of any sort was for­mulated, O'Hara said. 
Because the racial harass­ment policy would be university­wide, affecting students, faculty, and staff, it is in the process of being discussed on all these levels and is working its way to the Academic Council, said O'Hara, who expects the policy to be approved by the Academic Council at its April meeting. 
SUFR members expressed concern that discussing the ra­cial harassment policy on all levels was a delaying tactic on the Administration's part and said that a racial harassment policy applying to students 
should be ready for inclusion in next fall's Du Lac. A SUFR member said, "What I don't understand is why we 
OPEN SKATING 
8:00-9:30PM MIDNIGHT-1:30AM 

SKATE RENTAL 50 CENTS 
have to handle all these policies, staff and faculty, when we the students are the ones coming to you? Why not handle these as separate entities? The students want a racial harass­ment policy now." 
"It should have been ready sooner. The ramifications ­mental-that we have to go through, there is no reason for that. Don't you realize that in not setting timetables you allow these committees to draw this out indefinitely?" a SUFR member said. 
To SUFR's demand that Ken­neth Durgans. Director of Mi­nority Student Affairs, be "autonomous" and accountable only to the students, O'Hara re­sponded, "No director of a de-

ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHOOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
partment is accountable only to students." 
O'Hara added that an assis­tant to aid Durgans in the Of­fice of Minority Affairs had not been hired previously because of a disagreement over the most suitable applicant and that an assistant could not be hired at this exact time because of budget problems within the office. 
"Mr. Durgans and I have had a disagreement over the person he wanted hired as assistant director. The stated educa­tional qualification for all peo­ple in assistant director posi­tions is a Masters. This individ­ual did not have this," she said. 
SUFR members said that although they recommended the candidate favorably, the candi­date, who was Durgans' first choice to fill the position. had 
1 

been rejected because of unfa­vorable recommendations from dorm rectors and other Admin­istration members, and because he had not yet completed work on his Masters. 
"Those units do not under­
stand us, so how can they tell you who is a valid candidate? If the rector's don't know what is going on, then why not ask 
r 

Graduate Fellowship in International Studies 
Deadline Date: February 1, 1991 
The Willard I. Beaulac Memorial Dacor Bacon House Foundation Fellowship will be awarded to a student of the University of Notre Dame, who is a citizen of the United States, for advanced study of international affairs in the academic year of 1991-92 at a recognized institution of highter learning in the United States. The award is made primarily on the basis of academic excellence. It is exclusively for tuition purpose, carries a stipend of up to $10,000, and is for one year of full-time graduate study only. 
Further Information may be obtained In 
•n·B O'ShaueJmessy HaiL 
someone else?" a SUFR mem­ber questioned. 
O'Hara said that, although Minority Affairs still has money left in that portion of its budget set aside to pay the salary of an assistant director, that money could possibly be used to cor­rect the fact that the rest of the money budgeted to the office has already been spent, although there are still six months left in the fiscal yBar. 
SUFR members remained firm in demanding the hiring of an assistant. 
Members Jeiterated their de­mand that the University commit to building a multi-cul­tural center and said that such a center would not be used as a separatist retreat by minority students, but would provide a true forum for cultural diver­sity. 
O'Hara said that the Office of Student Affairs did not make decisions on who gets to con­struct buildings and advised SUFR members to contact someone from the business side of the administration. 
"The only way you can solve 
thll problem of ignorance is by 
giving them information," a 
member said. 
By CATHY FLYNN News Writer 
Members of Students United for Respect (SUFR) waited ten minutes to meet Vice President of Student Affairs, Patricia O'Hara at Hayes-Healy, the original site of an open forum with ethnic students. 
On Jan. 21, O'Hara agreed to meet with members of SUFR for an open student forum in Hayes-Healy. However, she rescheduled the meeting on Monday, Jan. 28, and asked only leaders of recognized mi­nority groups to attend the dis­cussion in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
"We're here (at the student forum) today as a group of students waiting to meet the in­stitution," Robert Price, '90, said. "Let this be a sign; there is no one from from the Admin­istration here." 
The students waited at Hayes­Healy for ten minutes before they walked over to the location O'Hara had selected. 
One SUFR member said to O'Hara, "I personally felt in­credibly upset when you did not show up and set up a meeting at the same time and in a dif­ferent place." 
"The fact that she is not here is a sign of disrespect for me and for all students." one stu­dent called from the crowded auditorium in Hayes-Healy. "Come on! Let's go over and talk to her ! I'm getting my coat on now!" 
Price. then reminded the crowd that they had not been invited and he said that O'Hara had refused to attend their stu­dent forum because SUFR is not an officially recognized student organization. 
"She takes this small techni­cality and uses it as an excuse not to meet us on our terms," senior Alicia Sierra said. "It is really a symbolic act, trying to show who is in control of the situation." 

--~ ------------------~--·----­
--------~-------~~------..... 
page 6 OPERATION DESERT STORM Wednesday, January 30, 1991 

AP Photo

lnfonnal consultations 
United NatioPis Secretary -General Javier Perez de Cuellar leaves the U.N. after informal Security Council consultations on Monday. The Secretary-General declined comment on a letter from Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz denouncing him and the Council. 
Americans speak out on the current state of nation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ask some thoughtful Americans ­a house painter a philosophy professor, an Oregon fishing guide -about the state of the union and what comes through is a twinge of doubt in a land of optimism. 
"We're in serious trouble," said Mike Mears, Vietnam vet­eran, criminal lawyer, mayor of the Atlanta suburb of Decatur, Ga. "Five months ago most people didn't know about Iraq and here we fmd ourselves ba­sically in World War III." 
Carl Sagan, famous as­tronomer, thought going to war was a mistake. 
"Would the government please to tell us how the emi­rate of Kuwait is a democ­racy?" he asked, disdainfully. 
The war aside, is the country in better shape than when you were a kid? 
Omaha, Neb. painting con­tractor Terry McGill, 41, who won a Bronze Star in Vietnam, was not so sure. 
"Things like 'unethical' come to mind," answered McGill. "Things like 'corrupt, dishon­est.' Those are awfully strong words, but our society's slip­ping." 
As President Bush prepared to go before Congress and na­tion to report on the state of the union, some ordinary and some well-known people were asked their views. 
George Nigh had no doubts: America remains a land of op­portunity. 
"Build a two-way bridge from the U.S. to any other country in the world," said the former governor of Oklahoma, now a college lecturer in Edmond, Okla. "You might as well put up a one-way sign because people want to come to America." 
Frank Lopresti, 31, of Phoenixville, Pa., who sells pizza slices so big they slop over the sides of paper plates, thought the country has changed since he came to America from Sicily 15 years ago, 
"Jobs, opportunities are not there as they used to be," he said. Still, "it is the best coun­try; you can always work." 
And Ben Wattenberg, a Washington expert on popula­tion trends, took a dim view of American nail-biting. 
Bush gives a reassuring wAvs ro cLEAN uP State of the Union speech~""""" 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush confidently assured Americans Tuesday night that the war against Iraq will be won and the recession at home will end in short order. "We stand at a defining hour," the president said in his State of the Union address. 
"For two centuries, we've done the hard work of freedom. And tonight, we lead the world in facing down a threat to de­cency and humanity," Bush said in a nationally broadcast ad­dress to a joint session of Congress. 
It was the first wartime State of the Union address since the dark days of Vietnam. Extraor­dinary security precautions en­shrouded the Capitol, a bow to threats of terrorism. 
He won a long standing ova­tion when he praised U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf as "truly America's finest" and again when he predicted "we will prevail" over Saddam Hus­sein. 
"As Americans, we know there are times when we must step forward and accept our responsibility to lead the world away from the dark chaos of dictators, toward the brighter promise of a better day," Bush said in his 55-minute speech. 
The president delivered a terse assessment of the war to date: ''I'm pleased to report that we are on course. Iraq's capacity to sustain war is being destroyed. 
"Time will not be Saddam's salvation." 
Shortly before the president spoke, the United States and the Soviet Union issued a joint statement that said a cease fire would be possible if Iraq made "an unequivocal commitment" to withdraw all its troops from Kuwait and took "concrete steps" in that direction. It was the first indication the White House might be willing to ac­cept less than immediate, total withdrawal of Saddam's troops. 
With Americans' attention fo-
Happy Birthday Bob Slobotnik! 


cused on the almost half-mil-,.............,.......,...,.....,. 
lion troops risking their lives in the Persian Gulf, Bush devoted the heart of his annual address to the two-week-old battle to force Saddam out of Kuwait. 
In the Congress, Democrats and Republicans rallied behind the president. "Now that war 
has begun, we'll work to see 
that it's swift and decisive, with the least possible loss of life," said Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, one of those who had preferred more diplomacy to war. 
Along with the Cabinet, law­makers and the diplomatic corps, there were two special guests in the audience: Brenda 
• 
Floating booms contain the spill near the source or block it from sensitive areas 

• 
Skimmer boats herd the oil together 

to be vacuumed up onto collection barges 

• 
Strings of absorbent pads soak up oil on beaches and in water too shallow for skimmer boats 

• 
Oil must be fairly concentrated to burn, and crude is hard to ignite 

• 
Chemical burning agents and lasers improve effectiveness 



_ _ flt\ · 
~ 

Schwarzkopf, wife of Desert ~r.llll"!f 
Storm commander Norman Schwarzkopf, and Alma Powell, ,._......C..,oa""g.wu...:lat•in..,g 
agents cause floating wife of Gen. Colin Powell,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of crude to gather together for.easier Staff. Both received standing pickup, or sink to the bottom where it ovations when introduced by does less harm 
Bush. • Dispersing agents break slicks 
Bush also paid tribute to the • Disadvantage: Chemical agents are democratic aspirations of the also pollutants people of the Soviet Baltic ...... states and said he remained ,........,;j....,....., 


"deeply concerned" about the
Kremlin's bloody crackdown. 
Bush, who met Monday with 
Soviet Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh, said the Soviet leadership had made promises which "would result in the withdrawal of some So­viet forces, a reopening of dia-Iogue with the Republics and a move away from violence." Administration sources said the 
• 
Wind and wave action emulsify some 

oil into the water (like shaking salad dressing) 

• 
Bacteria naturally consume some crude over time 

• 
New "bioremediation" techniques use special bacteria in large quantities to consume crude much faster-first used in open water after the 1990 Mega Borg tanker accident off Texas 


United States was expecting a'----------___,,.,.,.-,-__. "substantial withdrawal," and AP/Pat Lyons some roll back had already ·been detected. 
We're Fighting For Your Life. 
Bush also announced he was refocusing the decade-old Strategic Defense Initiative to 
American Heart 

protect against limited ballistic 
Association

missile threats, rather than an 
all-out nuclear war. 
L_______________j 





JUNKJRFORMAL 
February 1, 1991 $10 per couple 
hors d'oeuvres, cash bar, music 
tickets on sale now at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 



OPERATION DESERT STORM
Wednesday, January 30,1991 page 7 
TV coverage of war very important in U.S. dissent 
NJ·:W YOHK (AP) -The satel­liWs and information tochnol­ogy so vital to tlw TV networks' coverago of war with Iraq have become just as indispensable in mobilizing the voices and im­ages of U.S. disst~nt. 
"Fifty years ago. print was the medium of protest," said Marty Lucas. producer of the Gulf Crisis TV Project. "Nowadays you really need to have a TV camera to participate in the 
dnbatt~." 
As the Jan. 15 deadline ap­proachnd for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, the project broadcast two hours of pro­grams for peace -town meet­ings, spenches, panel talks, protest songs and demonstra­tions against U.S. intervention. 
So far, the Gulf Crisis TV Project has aired on 26 Public Broadcasting Service stations and more than 300 cable televi­sion stations. "I would be very surprised if less than 1 million people had seen it," Lucas said. 
That's a conservative guess. PBS affiliates that aired the show included New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington, Seattle, San Diego, Denver, Phoenix, Evansville, Ind., Lubbock, Texas, and Charleston, Ill. 
The four shows, compiled from a network of cable access and independent producers around the country, were barely publicized. It wasn't "splendid television" but it was more than street theater. 
There were reports on oil, arms, politics, and grass-roots organizing, with commentaries from distinguished U.S. ac­tivists, including disabled vet­eran Hon Kovic, former U.S. Attorney General Hamsey Clark, Daniel Ellsberg and others. 
PArhaps morA impressive is that the two-hour block was "presented" -transmitted on tlw PBS' internal system -by Philadelphia public TV station WYBE and accApted for review by more than 60 PBS affiliates. 
The project -its logo is a TV showing the univnrsal "NO" cird11 and diagonal slash super­imposed on an army tank ­bt~gan in August after Iraq in­vaded Kuwait and President Bush sent U.S. troops to Saudi Arabia. 
It is a venture of Paper Tiger Television, a New York City production group, and the Deep Dish TV Satellite Network, whieh has distributed programs to community access stations and cable systems since 1986. 
"The critical link is that Deep Dish has been cultivating this network for five years," Lucas said. "We worked closely with 100 stations and got 125 tapes from independent producers around the country. "Most were cable access programs, some were from peace groups, some were music videos from sophisticated L.A. production companies. It varied." 
TV technology had made it possible for local, public access producers, using Hi-8 and Su­per VIIS video cameras to cre­ate virtually broadcast-quality pictures and sound -at about a tenth of the cost of conven­tional TV. 
The 125 raw tapes repre­sented 80 to 90 hours of video -about two weeks of viewing. The project team logged the tapes and began editing. 
When the four programs were ready, the project started mailing and phoning producers to "pull down" the shows from the satellite, and it encouraged local producers to tie project's shows into "wraparounds" with their shows. 
"What surprised us is when we were able to hook up with WYBE," Lucas said. 
WYBE, UHF channel 35, is Philadelphia's "second" public TV station. It went on the air last June with a full-time staff of eight and a budget of less than $1 million. The project was its first time as a PBS "presenter." 
"We're committed here at the station to making sure that voices that l\SUally go unheard or rarely heard get to speak clearly," said Aaron Ezekiel, WYBE's general manager. "Now that the technologies are becoming affordable, it's very important to make sure the widest possible range of voices is heard." 
The Gulf Crisis TV Project does not end here, the produc­ers said. 

NORTHERN SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Each night at dusk, scout patrols slather their faces with camouflage paint and leave the haven of their lines to probe for Iraqi weaknesses. 
Scouts of the 82nd Airborne Division's 2nd Brigade inch a little farther out each night. They're now operating within three miles of the northern border. 
"Every night we get a little closer and every night we get a little more of a picture of what's out there," said Lt. Joseph Sacchetti of Philadelphia, a 28­year-old platoon leader of scouts from the 1st Battalion, 325th Infantry Regiment. 
The paratroopers' jobs are to gather and assemble bits of in­formation about the terrain and Iraqi positions. 
To do this, they arrive at the spot where their methodical, painstaking work stopped the night before, then crawl on el­bows and knees to new watch posts farther out. 
"This is about as close as you can get to the border without paying taxes in the other coun­try," said Capt. Clint Esarey, a public affairs officer who ac­companied one patrol. 

As they advance, the scouts string razor wire across the desert floor as a defensive pre­caution. The night masks their movements while they serve as the brigades' eyes and ears. 
They have goggles that turn night into day, thermal sights on TOW anti-tank missiles that see images of human forms, and a global positioning system that bounces signals off satellites to tell them their latitude and longitude. The system is accurate to within 35 feet of any spot on earth. 
"We're nocturnal; darkness is our friend," said Spec. John Rowe, 27, of Red Bank, N.J. 
Before they began their night­long mission, the soldiers were reminded they were at war. 
"This is no drill," said Maj. Ralph Delosua, 39, of Pember­ton, N.J., the 1st Battalion op­erations officer. "This is for real. There are bad guys out there. Shoot to kill." 
The sound of rifle bolts sliding back on the cold steel to put bullets into the chambers heightened the message. 
"Did you oil your weapon up today?" Lt. Sacchetti asked one of the men. "Might have to use it tonight." 
Scouts are chosen from the ranks for the special duty. Their officers describe them as the best of the infantry: disciplined, smart, stealthy. 
They talk with signals. Whis­pers are rare and they break radio silence only in extreme emergencies. 
"A light is like putting cross hairs on you," said Spec. Hiram Sanders, 25, of New York City. 
Scouts can call in artillery, air or missile strikes if they get into a jam, but prefer not to attract attention. 
"We're not supposed to get into firefights," Sanders said. "Our mission is to snoop." 
Scouts return the next morn­ing in dirty camouflage fatigues, fingers and toes numb from the frosty night. 


$7.00 $13.50 $13.00 

ORDER MONDAY-FRIDAY 4-8pm AT THE JPW OFFICE (3rd FLOOR LaFORTUNE, REYNOLDS ROOM) UNTIL FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8th. PICK-UP GIITS ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13th OR THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14th. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-6028 
,1 
1 1 
1 1 
1 
1 
,1 ~ ,1 
, 
1 
~ 
,1 
1 
1 1 
1 
1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 
1 
,1 
1 1 
.,l 
,
,
,
, 
r
, 
r r 
,r ' 
r
,
, 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
~ ~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 



Viewpoint

page 8 Wednesday, January 30, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
University neglects commitment to ethnic students 
On Monday. Jan. 21, the celebration of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birth, a group of ethnic students entered the Office of Student Affairs and presented Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, with a list of demands, and the University's commitment to ethnic students was brought into the spotlight. 
Students United For Respect (SUFR), by confronting O'Hara, showed the entire country that the University is sorely lacking in its commitment to ethnic students. 
SUFR's list of demands touched on several issues which the University needs to address. These include the need for a racial harassment rolicy; the lack of ethnic faculty and scarcity of financia aid for ethnic students. Theyalso demanded the construction of a "multicultural center" and the addition of an ethnic studies course requirement. . 
Last year, the University promised to formulate a racial harassment policy. So far, the Administration has been dragging its feet. By doing so, the Administration is telling ethnic students that tbeir concerns are of enough value to be swept under the rug. 
The fact that only one percent of faculty members are of African-American, Hispanic or Native American ancestry is another example of a half-hearted com­mitment on the part of the University. Attempts to recruit ethnic students are useless if they don't take into account the need for ethnic faculty to serve as advisors, mentors and role models. 
The scarcity of financial aid and social space are problems that affect all-not just ethnic-students. The University should continue its quest to increase financial assistance and should form a task force to explore the use of social space in existing facilities. 
While it is true that all students could benefit from taking a course from an Ethnic Program, University requirements already occupy most of a student's courseload. Instead of adding an ethnic studies re­quirement, the University should give ethnic and women's works a more prominent place in the Freshman Writing Program and Arts and Letters Core Course. Both of these programs have unexplored potential for examination of ethnic and women's works. 
Before SUFR spoke with O'Hara, Student Body Vice President Fred Tombar recited King's famous "I Have A Dream" speech. If the Universitf insists on ignoring the needs of ethnic students, it wil prove once and for all that King's dream was exactly that-a dream. 
DOONESBURY 
I CANT R£51£ I~THIS COAT' Ht:Re'5 MY  VERY G(X)I/. MA/2"... uiYOuift'U  MAPAM lUlU ONt.Y 813 /?!fMOV!Ne 7Ht mAT 70 MTHt. ANO YOU  
PLASTIC.. CO /AifTH  U/eAR.ING  MAY BURN 7Ht PARJ<A  
ITti/HAT YOIJ  lH/3 aJAT?  
tutU.  \  I  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Group calls for peacemaking during crisis 
Dear Editor: 
We, the members of Pax Christi Notre Dame, are com­pelled by our consciences to speak out against the war in the Middle East. We challenge the Notre Dame community to ask itself where its primary al­legiance lies. 
As followers of Christ, we believe that obedience to the Gospel's message of love and nonviolence takes precedence over loyalty to any human government, especially when that government's policies violate Gospel values. We unequivocally condemn the bru­tal atrocities of Saddam Hussein. But we also condemn our own government's bombing of Iraq. This war violates not only the principles of Christian pacifism, but the criteria of the Just War Theory as well, as outlined recently in two letters by the American Catholic bish­ops. . 

The central message of the Gospel, as we understand it, is Christ's call for us to identify with one another, especially with those who suffer. We cannot replace the works of mercy with acts of war. The Allied Forces have bombed Baghdad, a city of four million people, unceasingly since Jan. 
16. Can people who take Christ's message of love seri­ously support this action in good conscience? We cannot. 
In the midst of this suffering, let us end the war and begin negotiations. More importantly, let us attend to those who have suffered at our hands and at the hands of Saddam Hussein. Let us heed the call of Christ to be peacemakers-the children of God. 
Drew Buscareno Joe Gress Kevin Heffernan Jeff Long Joe McCarty Emily Neufeld Pax Christi Notre Dame Jan.24,1991 

Bush's short memory: old and new interventions 
Dear Editor: 
Thirteen months ago the United States invaded Panama. The reasons the Bush­Administration gave were to a) combat drug trafficking, b) de­fend the Panama treaties and c) defend democracy. 
In the invasion, 24,000 U.S. soldiers attacked and occupied Panama. Between 1000 and 2000 Panamanians (mostly civilian population) were mur­dered in nine days, according to independent sources. Thousands lost their homes-due to the 'precise job' of superb stealth bombers and other military innovations­mainly in El Chorrillo (about 300,000 people live in this poor neighborhood). In San Miguelito, more than 5000 persons were imprisoned and huge material damage was caused. The Panamanian Chamber of Commerce asserted that the economic damage of the invasion was at least $1 billion. 

After the apprehension of Noriega, Guillermo Endara, the apparent winner of elections held in May 1989, was sworq in as president of Panama on a 
U.S. 
military base. No new elections have been held since then, and U.S. troops still con­tinue patrolling Panama's streets, violating Panama's sovereignty and its Canal treaties. Even worse, U.S. fi­nancial aid ($120 million) will not be even sufficient to cover part of the damages caused by 

U.S. 
troops. 


George Bush wrote in his let­ter, referring to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait: "If armed men in­vaded .a home in this country, killed those in their way, stole what they wanted and then an­nounced the house was now theirs, no one would hesitate about what must be done." Well, Mr. Bush, it is nice, then, that you understand the situation your Administration and others before it have created in Panama and in dozens of other countries around the world. But it annoys and deeply outrages me that the brutal hangman suddenly speaks of "right and wrong," "human rights," and "moral obligation." 
Both Noriega and Hussein were in part "U.S. creations," and they both were (or are being) destroyed by the same machinery, with thousands of civilian casualties in the process. An interesting chapter of history will be written when Mr. Bush clarifies his relationships with both of them while he was the director of the CIA. As long as people like him want to install this form of "New World Order" and "desperately want peace," I have to sincerely say that I am against peace. 
Enrique Dussel Peters Graduate Student in Economics Jan.24,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

IF YOU IAXJ()UJ, PlEA% 516N HfJI?&, MAPAM. 7HI515 OUR JlJ5T A5 A UNCONPmONAt. 90-l?AY PR&CJW'ION. GUARANTEe. ANI/ TH~SE ENJOY. 
AI?& OUR 6ARME3NT CARe IN5T/?IJCT!ONS, \ 
IN c.A~ YOU'Re 
'3PATUifJN. 
""' 

'All you need is love? Yeah, try living off it.' 
Keith Richards 

--------------------~~----~------------------------·




Viewpoint

Wednesday, January 30, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
War calls for mutual respect among divided Americans 
-

Dear Editor: policy has consistently sought and peaceful? Our legal system, too, follows process, he does not become a 
I have little sympathy for to maintain divisions in the I claim to be a pacifist. I op­a similar pattern, wherein the monster. And when you look Saddam Hussein. I grieve for Middle East to secure cheaper pose the real politic which defense and prosecution engage long into an abyss, the abyss the Iraqi people, however, espe· oil for ourselves and for our characterizes our foreign pol­in debate, trusting that in the also looks into you." cially the Iraqi soldiers. I allies in Europe and Japan, and icy. Yet, I find the prospect of end, truth will win out. Thus, it Pacifism is a prophetic call. grieve, too, for all the young to check Soviet hegemony. The Saddam Hussein loose upon the is with my friends also. They Not all receive this call, but men and women of the UN Soviet Union's deliberate re­world terrifying. Much like represent our nation's capacity those who do have a duty, a coalition. What madness is it tirement from the international Gandhi's response to Hitler, I to reflect critically upon its duty to their country, to pro­that obliges so much bloodshed balance of power has unleashed find myself personally opposed actions, to develop for our claim a word of warning, a for an almost certain outcome? forces which now equilibriate. to war, yet casting my sympathy nation an informed and reminder that war represents 
In the present moment, Our participation in the Gulf with those who fight Saddam sensitive conscience. Our the worst in humankind, a dia­Saddam Hussein bears a heavy War is frightening, yet our ab­Hussein. country measures patriotism bolical vanity and the surest in­burden of guilt for the suffering sence would be no less momen­But what, then, of my friends first by fidelity to our sanity. Peace protesters serve both sides are obliged to inflict tous. What are we, as a nation, who protest American involve­Constitution, then to our our national interest no less upon each other. In the to do? How can we set things ment in the war, who believe leadership and only finally to than our soldiers. Each must broader perspective, however, right? What course must we our leadership is misguided or our flag. There is no other na­follow his or her conscience. I 
our nation, too, bears a heavy navigate to establish a "new duplicitous? Must I oppose my tion like this on earth. pray that in our nation both 
burden of guilt. Our foreign world order"-one more just friends, since they do not cast My greatest fear for my proponents and opponents of their lot with those who fight friends is that they will be dis­the present war may respect ­Saddam Hussein? No. Nor missed. Some will say: "These and listen to each other. should, I think, any American protesters would oppose any Otherwise, someday, we shall 
who is proud of our war. They serve no purpose surely all go mad, releasing the Constitution, proud of the intel­but to demoralize our troops totalitarian beast we so loathe. ligence, sanity and justice of the and our national purpose." At the end of the movie governing principles estab­This would be a tragic mistake, "Patton," General Patton lished in that contract. a denial of the only moral reflects on a Roman conquerer 
Our system of government ground which might justify our parading in triumph through rests upon a system of "checks troops fighting any war. Rome with the spoils of war. and balances." We learned all Our system of government, Beside the conquerer in the this before college, but perhaps our principles of free speech, chariot stands a slave holding some have missed the point. our freedom to dissent from the over the conqueror's head a 
Our founders mistrusted an policies of our government, golden crown while whispering monolithic investment of power provides our only solid link with in his ear: "All glory is fleeting." and designed a system of gov­truth, with sanity-especially ernment wherein the interests when fighting demons. One Brother Joseph Godfrey, of the various branches of gov­philosopher rightly warned: c.s.c. ernment compete on a near­"Whoever fights monsters Moreau Seminary equal footing. should see to it that, in the Jan.24,1991 
Students showed lack of understanding at peace rally 
Dear Editor: their native soil, alive and well. But the proponents of the 
I'd like to respond to the I'd like to think that people on removal of Saddam Hussein barrage of pro-war sentiment this campus do not hold a have legitimate reasons behind displayed on these pages in stereotype of peace supporters them also. The point is that recent days. I will not defend or as uninformed, drugged out, war is a confusing, frustrating condemn this unfortunate war flower-wielding hippies who and sad time for everyone. It is with which this country is chain themselves to buildings., unjust and unfair to condemn involved. I would certainly fail But from some of the those who are unsure of their miserably in adding to the responses, many immature, feelings and are reluctant to

Gulf crisis group wants 
rhoetoric both sides have such as the tactless broadcast jump on a bandwagon and espoused. I'd like to draw of "The Flight of the Valkyrie" wave a flag. attention to a related issue from a window of Cavanaugh The peace rally, rather than

diplomatic settlement 
more directly relevant to this during one of the rallies before being a radical protest, was a Dear Editor: economic sanctions, with their campus, namely the the war, and many merely chance for students to air their 
Since the massive deployment broad coalition support, had outstanding intolerance for anonymous shouts from the feelings of confusion, of United States armed forces, been given sufficient time to those who choose not to crowd, one cannot help but frustration, anger and sadness the University of Notre Dame's run their intended course, they wholeheartedly back Bush in think that the majority of this in front of a memorial whose Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAG) could have proven effective in his aggressive position. campus has such an attitude purpose is to remind people of has been committed to bringing forcing Saddam Hussein to the I've heard countless angry towards those who choose to the terror of war and, in doing about a peaceful resolution to negotiating table. Whether responses to the peace rally exercise their right to protest. so, prevent a recurrence. To the conflict in the Middle East. they could have brought about held at the memorial on One simple fact remains,' think that a person is In these days of international their desired effect will never Fieldhouse Mall, most stating regardless of whether you are unpatriotic, un-American and turmoil, emotional tensions run be known. that the memorial, honoring for or against war in the Gulf. radical for not blindly and high and passions flare. This is We support attempts at those dead from combat, was People are suffering and dying. unquestionably clamoring in a natural response to the diplomacy and negotiation in desecrated by the "anti-Human lives are being lost. Not support of the war effort whose present situation in the Persian realizing a non-military resolu­American" actions of just American, but also Israeli, justification he or she may Gulf, for we as a nation are tion to the Gulf crisis. A diplo­protestors. These critics Kuwaiti and Saudi lives. They question is wrong, and is more deeply committed to life. We matic settlement in which Iraq painstakingly point out that we are all members of the same detrimental to our campus and dread thinking how many lives withdraws from Kuwait, with should all be supporting our human race. And many people our country than any "division this conflict will take. minimal concessions on both troops by showing them a are asking, why? They are among the ranks." 
Thus, support for our troops sides, is certainly preferable to united country, and even going asking why to a president who Understanding that others have in the Persian Gulf region is continued war. A Middle so far as blaming the anti-war has chosen to cloak his motives differing views may aid in imperative. Indeed, patrio­Eastern peace conference, one movement for loss in Vietnam. in rhetoric and calls to reducing hostile attacks on this tism-love and support for our such concession, would not be The usual response to this type patriotism. They are asking campus. service men and women-is at rewarding aggression-after of criticism is that the why to irresponsible leaders the forefront of the minds of the all, the objective of the UN res­protestors support the troops around the world who choose Jason Winslade members of the GCAG when we olution (Iraq's withdrawal from by praying for peace, and to embroil their nations in Off-campus call for an immediate cease-fire Kuwait) would be satisfied. hoping for their safe return to unjust conflict. Jan.23,1991 in the war and the estab­Furthermore, a peace lishment of a United Nations conference carries the promise 

Bush has right to pray in reflection
peacekeeping force in the re­of deterring future aggression gion. in the Persian Gulf region. 
Dear Editor: Mr. Bush's religion. Whether religion, whether he is aThe GCAG vehemently con­Christian Dupont's letter President Bush is Protestant, president or a pauper. By ­demns Saddam Hussein's attack The GCAG values an in­about President Bush's Catholic, Moslem, Buddhist, or calling Billy Graham a on Kuwait and Iraq's bombing formed, reasoned approach in "religious imperialism" (The atheist, his political speech is "deceitful advisor" who
of civilian targets in Israel. making its assessment of the 
Observer, Jan. 23) was perhaps not a disguised form of religious "spiritually and morally de­Likewise, we are dismayed by Iraqi invasion and the present the most poorly-founded letter imperialism. How important is ceived" President Bush, Mr.
the injury and death that the war. We encourage others to 
which I have read in The it that President Bush turns to a Dupont denies our presidentbombing raids of the United join us in making a committed Observer. I take issue with fundamentalist for spiritual that right and implies that hisStales and its allies have inquiry into the facts and ethics nearly everything which Mr. guidance? own religion is better than that
brought to the Iraqi people. of the situation. Together we ­
Dupont wrote. Bush is not a novice at the ofMr. Bush. 
Only by stopping the bombs can work to bring peace and 
Dupont states that Bush's business of war. He fought in How dare Mr. Dupont claimfrom falling can we insure that stability to the region, to bring "new world order" is religious World War II, and his plane was religious imperialism when he our loved ones will come home our troops home, and to end imperialism; if I understand the shot down. He knows the himself scorns the religion of
alive. the war now. 
letter correctly, President Bush horrors of war and would not other people? That is nothingThn GCAG is committed to wants to decimate the Moslems. send U.S. forces without careful but hypocrisy, prejudice and
ending further aggression in Tom Esch Unfortunately, Mr. Dupont's thought and deep reflection. If intolerance. It is not the presi­­
the Middle East. Prior to the Chad Mohler 
mindless rhetoric is unfounded, religious prayer is a part of that dent's ideology but Mr. Dupont's
UN's Jan. 15 deadline. eco­Matthew Steffens 
both in practice and in theory. reflection, so be it. that we must stop. 
nomic sanctions had already Notre Dame Gulf Crisis 
His interpretation of "new Under the First Amendment
b11gun to cripple Iraq's economy Action Group 
world order" is circumstantial of the U.S. Constitution, Matthew Miller 
and military resolve. If these Jan.24,1991 
and is based on nothing except everyone has a right to free Carroll Hall Jan.23,1991 

.-----~------------------------------------------~------------·--­



Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, January 30, 1991 

Saint Mary's focuses on art 
Lysohir and alumni display works in Hammes Gallery 
By SARA HARKER Accent Writer 
Marylin Lysohir is the artist whose ceramic work is cur­rently on display in Hammes Gallery at Saint Mary's College. Lysohir completed her under­graduate studies, receiving a Bachelor of Arts at Ohio Northern University, and her graduate studies, receiving a Masters in Fine Arts at Washington State University. 
The work on display centers around the idea of generations passing on; it includes not only the dying off of relatives but also the dying off of species of animals, and natural resources becoming nonexistent. 
'The work on display centers around the idea of generations passing on; it includes ... the dying off of relatives.' 
"The Last Immigrant" is a piece whose center includes images of six hands at eye level. On .both sides of the hands are two three-foot bears standing on pedestals, and on either side of the bears are small vases of flowers. The rest of the show consists of a series of bear heads, hands and flowers all centering around the theme of passing on.
t 
Lysohir has done various in­stallations in ceramics. Staying in the sculptural aspect of the medium, she has completed massive pieces such as the twenty-four-foot battleship as part of "The Dark Side of Dazzle." That particular instal­lation centers around the se­duction of war. 
Another example of her work is "Bad Manners." This piece is about greed and distinguishing between luxuries and necessi­ties. It includes a large table overflowing with a grotesque amount of food and four head­less, limbless people. Lysohir and her work have been fea­tured in many ceramic books and magazines, most recently in a book titled, "Artists at Work: Twenty-Five Northwest Glassmakers, Ceramists And Jewelers." 
Lysohir just completed a one week artist-in-residency pro­gram at Saint Mary's College. During that time she gave two public lectures and worked with students on her most recent piece called "Bad Manners II." This piece also centers around greed and distinguishing between luxuries and necessities. 
Lysohir's work will be on dis­play in Hammes Gallery until February 22. 
Also on display at Saint Mary's College is the Juried Alumnae Exhibition in Moreau and Little Theatre galleries. This show features the work of sixty-five years of graduation 


'The variety of the work is representative of the changing forms and styles that art has gone through in the years past.' 
classes. The work ranges from paintings and drawings to ce­ramics and sculpture. 
The juror of the show was Susan Vissor, director and cu­rator of the South Bend Art Center. Vissor said after judg ing the show, "I congratulate Saint Mary's on their obvious high level of serious art in­struction and thank them for this opportunity to experience so many fine and stimulating works of art." 
The variety of the work is representative of the changing forms and styles that art has gone through in the years past. 
Three winners were chosen from the exhibition. First prize was awarded to Elizabeth Buhr, a 1987 graduate, for her piece called "Red Circle" made of thalo blue pigment. Second place went to Kathleen Hogan, a 1988 graduate, for her unti­tled triptych made with acrylic and oil paints. The third place winner was Jocelyne Desmarias, a 1990 graduate. Her piece titled, "It Was a Put On" is made from handmade felt and was worn as part of a performance piece at Redbud Fine Art Wqrkshop. 
The exhibit will remain on display in Moreau and Little Theatre galleries until February 22. 

WVFI
i 
Top Ten Rlbums 
1. 
Mr. T Experience -Making Things With Light 

2. 
Pitchfork -Eucalyptus 

3. 
Bastro -Sing the Troubled Beast 

4. 
Left Insane -Tool Box 

5. 
Riflesport -Primo 

6. 
Ween -God Ween Satan 

7. 
They Eat Their Own-They Eat Their Own 

8. 
Hollow Men -Cresta 

9. 
Chainsaw Kittens -Violent Religion 

10. 
Blatz -Cheaper Than the Beer 


-
-

The ice patch blues 
One of the many joys that come from living in the South Bend-Mishawaka regional area ("Alive with Pride") is the weather. (QUIZ QUESTION: Can you name another? See answer at end of column.) As one friend of mine put it "there is just no excuse for it being this cold." 
Mind you, I'm not just whin­ing about the cold, I also dislike the biting wind and driving snow which make every walk outside an expedition to the Antarctic. But it's neither the cold nor the wind nor the snow which is a threat to all of hu­manity, it's the ice. 
The University, besides set­ting up outdoor picnic tables and constructing decorative ornamental gates (Your tuition dollars at work!), also goes to great lengths to make sure the sidewalks are cleared of snow. 
The only problem with this little scheme, other than the oc­casional student being mauled by an over-eager snowblower, is that when the snow is com­pletely removed it exposes a thin and treacherous layer of ice on the sidewalk, which causes many an otherwise sure-footed student to slip. 
(It's my personal theory that the Administration pays people to hose down the sidewalks late at night so there's plenty of ice by morning, but perhaps I'm a little paranoid just now.) 
Now, the only reason I hap­pen to mention this at all is that I was recently a victim of such an ice patch. (Somehow, I'll bet you guessed that, didn't you?) 
Ian Mitchell Lion Taming 
After losing my footing, stumbling (in a comical way that would be sure to have been accompanied by some zany sound effect were I an animated cartoon characterJ and falling to the ground emitting a succinctly graceful "oof," I quickly looked around to see if anyone I knew had observed my stunning display of agility. 
Thinking the coast was clear, I got to my feet and con­tinued on my way, glad that at least no one had seen my em­barrassing moment, or worse yet, captured it for posterity on film and sent it to "America's Funniest Home Videos." 
Then, about forty-five sec­onds later, out of nowhere, a friend of mine swoops down to inform me that my accident did not go unobserved. Her first reaction, if I recall correctly, was not: "Are you all right? That was quite a nasty spill!" or better yet: "You look so cold. Come here and let me warm you with my hot Italian breath, you snowy stallion." (Okay, so the odds on that second possibility were pretty slim.) 
Anyway, her reaction was more along the lines of: "Ha ha ha ha. Boy, did you sure look like an enormous dork!" (Of course, I'm paraphrasing here; I don't remember her exact wording, and she probably laughed for quite a bit longer than that.) 
Now, it's bad enough that a friend saw me pound the pave­ment with my posterior, but it's worse that she thinks it's so funny that she must must tell everyone she knows about it AND constantly remind me of the incident everv time she sees me. My conversations with her have been reduced to the fol­lowing form: 
Me: "Hi, how's it going?" 
Her: "Are you okay?  Any­ 
thing broken in the fall?  Ha ha  
ha!"  

Me: "Look, would you mind just dropping this? I'm fine, really." 
Her: "Careful-I hear it's go­ing to freeze overnight. Ha ha ha.1" 
Me: "Look, what if I gave you five dollars to forget the whole thing?" 
Her: "Man, the expression on your face when you hit the ce­ment! Ha ha ha!" 
Me: "I've bought a gun." Her: "You looked like such a complete doofus! Ha ha ha!" 
Me: "It'd sure be a shame if this revolver went off acciden­tally near your face or some­thing." 
Anyway, I'm pretty sick of winter weather and its accom­panying dangers. I'm already preparing for Groundhog Day­that little rodent had better predict an early spring; I can't take six more weeks of slip­ping-on-ice jokes. 
(QUIZ ANSWER: Neither could I.) 

~---~------­
The Observer 

Wednesday, January 30, 1991 page 11 


Patriots' general manager, Patrick Sullivan, resigns 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. (AP)-An emotional Patrick Sullivan, upset with his diminished du­ties with the New England Patriots, resigned Tuesday night as general manager of the team his father founded in 1960. 
"I recognized that things are not permanent and I felt very strongly that I wanted to have a role within the organization that was a responsible role," Sullivan said. "When I recog­nized that I really wouldn't have the responsible role that was important, it was time to move on." 
Sullivan, 38, started working for the Patriots when he was snvPn years old by picking up 
Dayton 
continued from page 16 
booster for us," said Ellery, "especially after Saturday. Coming in hl're it looked like WP. wP.re going to give it up again, but we came through dirty equipment in the locker room and rose to general man­ager in 1983. He remained after his father, William H. Sullivan Jr.. sold the team to Victor Kiam in October 1988. 
Several times during his pre­pared statement, he paused to control his emotions, particu­larly when he discussed his family. 
"I look back with the realiza­tion," he began, then stopped for 20 seconds and let out a deep breath before continuing to say, "that the support of one's family is more important than just about anything." 
At that point, he paused 
and that gave us a lot of confidence." 
In the first half, Notre Dame played 20 minutes of consistent basketball, going into the locker room with a 37-29 lead. 
The Irish came out with an aggressive man-to-man defense and a fast-paced offense. 
again, and after about 10 sec­onds sniffied and continued his statement. 
Sullivan, who survived several other occasions when his job was in jeopardy last season, said, "Now is the time for both the Patriots and I to look for­ward to an exciting future." 
"As always, I wish only the best for the New England Patriots now and in the future," he said. He did not elaborate on the reasons for leaving with six years left on his contract. 
But his duties had diminished since Sam Jankovich became the team's chief executive offi­cer on Dec. 20 and was given 
Before 40 seconds had elapsed, Notre Dame was leading 5-0 off a layup and a three-pointer by Elmer Bennett. 
Notre Dame steadily built its lead, a margin that reached 10 points midway through the first half when freshman Jon Ross hit an outside shot from the complete control of the organi­zation by Kiam. 

Sullivan didn't specify what duties he would have had if he remained with the team, but maintained that "it would be inaccurate to say that I was forced out." 
"The New England Patriots are grateful to Patrick Sullivan for his three decades of his contributions to the club," Kiam said. 
The elder Sullivan, beset by family financial problems, sold the team to Kiam in October 1988. "The Sullivan era with the football team really effec­tively ended in October 1988," 
free-throw line, making it 19-9. The biggest lead of the evening was 11, which occurred three times midway through the sec­ond half. 
Dayton never Jed in the game. 
"We're going to be fine," said Phelps, whose team lost star forward LaPhonso Ellis Jan. 16 Pat Sullivan said Tuesday night. 
He joined the team on a full­time basis in 1976 and filled a variety of roles -ticket sales, stadium operations, publicity assistant, assistant general manager and others. 
But the 1990 season was the worst in club history, as it lost its last 14 games to finish 1-15. 
The Patriots ended their sea­son on Dec. 30 with a 13-10 loss to the New York Giants, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday. 
Sullivan's departure ef­fectively ends his family's input into the qrganization. His fa­ther remains as club president in a largely ceremonial role. 
due to academic ineligibility. "Now we can settle in and get an identity, which you've seen in the last two games. We'll be, I think, a very competitive bas­ketball team. And to gflt in herfl and win, I don't think many people thought we were going to win this game." 
The Observer accepts classlfiads every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. altha Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classified& is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 


Classifieds spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of ND ave and Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION Invites all Grad. Students, Faculty and Staff Members 
to the FRIDAY AFTERNOON CLUB I Thts Friday, and every Friday at the Alumni·Senior Club 
5:00 PM · 9:00 PM NO COVER -FREE FOOD 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Ptck up & de!ivery available. 277 · 
5134 Cathy 

LOST/FOUND 
-HELP·: LOST ON TUESDAY NIGHT THREELOOSEKEYS. ROOM #115. P.O. BOX 1214, AND A BUSINESS KEY· AROUND ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE FOUND, CALL 284·4308. THANK YOU !I 
LOST: Men·s Pulsar watch, gold with white face and brown leather band. Sentimental value. If found please call Heidi at 12108. 
Lost on Fri. 1/18/91 between Cushing and Alumni: key ring with 6 keys (3 dorm, 2 car. 1 house). Reward. Call x1209. 
LOST: a red Minnie Mouse watch probably in JACC gym 2, Sunday 1/27, 2 PM. Any info please contact Patty x4092. 
LOST: Nikon Camera & Case Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26 at Law School Party in the JACC Monogram Room. If picked up or found, please contact 273·9236. You will be rewarded for your honesty. $$$$$$$ 
LOST: gold chain link bracelet of GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Lost on Friday in North Dining Hall or O'Shaugnessy. Reward. If found. call Michelle at x4071. 
LOST: Clear plastic dress bag filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. Was left hung over wire fence behind Breen·Phlllps on Dec. 21. Sweater of great sentimental value Inside. If found, please call Erin at x1458. 
LOST: Blue Swatch between Dillon and Hurley, Tues., 1/22. Sentimental Value. Please call Chris x1851 
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of a link design. Great sentimental value. Reward. Phone 2156 (Maria). 
FOUND: portable CD player call Tom at 1155 
Found: Pair of black, suede gloves at last Monday's talk on conscientious objection at the library auditorium. To claim call Tara at x4654. 
LOST ON MONDAY AT ACC: 
GOLD-AND-SILVER·COLORED 
WATCH. ACOMMEMORATIVE 
GIFT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD I PLEASE CALL 2710621. 

WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1·800·343·8373. 
SUMMER JOBS 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN"S CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA. DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK·ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, ROCKETRY. ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA. SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771. DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934·6536. 
TENNIS JOBS·SUMMER 
CHILDREN"S CAMPS­
NORTHEAST·MEN AND WOMEN 
WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN 
THE NORTHEAST. GOOD 
SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, 
TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN 
CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934·6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)·SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS· NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381·5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
(617) 934-6536. 
GRAPHIC ARTIST STUDENT 
NEEDED FOR FREE LANCE WORK. CALL IHRD 233-4493. 
MACINTOCH EXPERTISE NEEDED. WE HAVE SOFTWARE­NEED HELP INSTALLING AND CLEANING UP. CALL IHRD 233· 4493. 
ANYONE WITH A TAPE OF 
SATURDAY"S ND·VIRGINIA 
GAME-PLEASE CALL TIM 
AT x2727 ($$$) 
FOR RENT 
FREEDOM I Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291·7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to 
campus. Only $150/month. Call 
Paul287·2159. 
SHARP houses, '91·"92 yr. 
Many extras. 288·5653 or 
234-3831 
2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232·3616 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91·92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232·1776 
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared Living Areas, Avail. for 91·92 Yr. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. 
Quaint apts. near N.D. 
·upstairs 1 bedroom $255 
·downstairs 1 bedroom $265 
deposit, reference 616-483-9572. 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 
Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms 
for 
Graduation weekend. Located at 
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart 
(12 miles from South Bend) 
Minimum stay 2 nights with $11 0 
deposit per room. Send letter with 
deposit to 3011 
Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, 
IN 46514. 
MARION ST. FRAT HOUSE Rent for '91-'92 year For 8 people@ $160/mnth. Utilities & Furniture extra Call Jon@ 289·1015 between 5 and 6 pm. 
Efficiency apartment 1 mile to NO campus.$250 a month. Call Don !.6830175 after 6pm. 



FOR SALE 
CHEAP AIRLINE TICKETS from 
South Bend to Dallas Feb 7-10. 
Call259·6748. Best Offer. 
FOR SALE: TOSHIBA T1000 
Laptop Computer 
Asking $395 Call: 271·9314 
1980 Dalsun 200sx,5spd,runs 
great,30mpg,perfect college 
car,asking $500,x-1617 
286 computer,40MB HD, 1 MB,3.5&5.25HD,VGA,Iots of extras.asking $1300,x-1617 


TICKETS 
NEED 6 TICKETS TO EITHER DUKE OR SYRACUSE B·BALL/11 CALL KEVIN AT X3451 LEAVE MESSAGE 
KEENAN REVUE TICKETS 
Have two tickets for Saturday night 
will trade for Thursday night. 
X4012 
I Need one Duke ticket 
Dan x2042 

PERSONALS 
A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 
DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & 
FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 
DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY 
$991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­
800·638-6786. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 
Information on semester, summer, 
J·term, Graduate. and Internship 
programs. All programs run under 
$6000. Call Curtin University at 1­
800·878-3696. 
Send $1 to p.o. box 364 
ND, IN 46556 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR 
FAVORS GRANTED 1/91 PREGNANT? Happily·married Catholic parents, full time stay-at­home mom and devoted dad, eager to adopt. Will provide strong faith; lots of love; two excited brothers; large extended family; opportunities include college and travel. We enjoy week·ends at our lake cottage and mini-vacations with friends/children. Paid medical, legal, counseling, housing, and living expenses. Call COLLECT: 0­317-253-8838, Extension 255 and let us help you. 
SPRING BREAK "91 
BAHAMASICANCUN from $375 
CALL NOW/II 277·0253: MIKE 
AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 
GENERAL MEETING #2 
AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 
Wednesday @ 9:30 In the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Everyone interested in making this year's Spring Festival "'The Best Ever" please attend this important meeting! 
GENERAL MEETING #2 
AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 
YOI Come see JESTER Thursday night at Club 23 Be there. 
And don"! forget to brush your teeth ... afterwards. 
WAKE·N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON"T MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL 1·800·427.771 0. 
ADOPTION: Christian couple seeks to adopt white infant. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad and answer our prayers. Please call Harry and Melody collect at 
(219) 259·0585 any time. 
Anyone interested in playing at "'The Coffeehouse" contact Jim@X4061 
I need a ride to Cleveland· John Carroll 2/1-213 call Lisa X3882 
Pookie, I love you, I will always love you, Louis 

Need BASSIST for est. band Paul x3671 
The Top 5 Reasons for CATHY OLENEC to be happy. 5.)You can always find a ··special delivery" job. 4.)The ·water ballet club" of Daytona Beach Is looking for new members. 3.)Walgreen's is only 2 days and 5 minutes away. 2.)Jordan Knight is a self­proclaimed leg and breast man. ...and the #1 reason ... 1.)You are the sole resident of room 284 who is intimate with the bald avengerllll 
Jolly Joe's and Burrito's ...CAN YOU THINK OF A BETTER REASON TO GO ON UVING...unless of course you get an offer to join the circus ill 
JIM· IT'S BEEN 5 MONTHS. .... DRAW YOUR OWN CONCLUSIONS! LOVE · YOUR LB. 
Happy Birthday MOM GUNSOREKI I LOVE YOU. Luv, Lisa 
He cooks, he cleans, he's IIIFRITZ KLEIN/II 
"I don"t use grease, I use Spam." ·Malini "Sheepwoman" Chablani (or could she mean "Pam"? I?) 
Hey K ... What is it? Newlove.. . No Love .. . Freelove.. . 
"I am a hermaphrodite." 
Frank B 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW' DAYTONA BEACH ..... Sff9' 
7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND •.. Sf%9' 
5 ~NO J NIGHTS $ .. 
STEAMBOAT ..•.. 96 
} S AND 1 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE SfJ7' 
7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ...• Sf24' 
7 NICHTS 
CORPUS CHRIST/ I MUSTANG ISLAND 
S .A.ND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
5 liND I NIGHTS 
CALL TOLl Fl?ff TODII' 

1·800·321·5911 

------------------------------~-------­ --­~­ --­ 
page 12  The Observer  Wednesday, January 30, 1991  



Items 
continued from page 16 
Olympic sports teams was nonexistent," says Scholl, 33, who left his job at an Elkhart ad agency to become Director of Fund Raising for the 1987 International Summer Special Olympic Games Committee. "In recent years, we have seen a tremendous increase (in fan involvement), especially in women's sports," he says. "A good example is in women's basketball. They're ranked 19th in the country. As soon as they got ranked, attendance came right up. "Two years ago, the women's team averaged 200 fans per game," he says. "Last year, they averaged 660. This year, we hope to draw about 1,200 per game. We've got some things coming up that we hope will draw a lot of fans to the games." Yet sports marketing alone never will do the job. "One thing that I should pl:-ef­ace this entire thing on is that you have to have a good sports program for sports marketing to work," he says. Scholl and his entourage-which consists of one intern, Jim Fraleigh, and a legion of student volunteers-have targeted members of the South Bend community and Notre Dame students in their sports marketing. They would arrange, for ex­ample, for McDonald's to hand out free women's basketball tickets to patrons. Or they would have a Boy Scout Night at a hockey game. Or they would give free squeeze bottles to the first 200 fans in atten­dance at a sporting event. "Nothing is more satisfying for us to see than a large student turnout," he says. "It's critical to us for a lot of reasons. One is because they're the athletes' peers out there. Secondly, we love the atmosphere the students create. They're not afraid to yell out and cheer, while some South Bend residents are." And yet, as Scholl will concede, his sports marketing has been directed primarily on residents rather than students. "I think I personally have not done enough of a job extending the invitation to students," he says. "On the other hand, we must be realistic-there are over 100 home dates for paid­admission events, and probably 400 home dates including free ones. We also know that stu­dents' time is severely limited." Despite this disadvantage, Scholl says he'll be stepping up marketing toward students in the future. One asset he has this year is his student volun­teers-30 strong-who open up the possibilities for spreading the word, and offering ideas, for upcoming activities. "Student volunteers are effec­tive because we're students and we know how busy students are," says Anne Dinshah, a se­nior student volunteer. "But be­cause of marketing we know how to get students' attention. (Sports marketing) is new, it's different, and each of the vol­unteers got a list of different areas that we could work in-table tents, flyers, a 900­number, getting sponsors, selling programs, and we all got to pick what we wanted to work on." With all this help, Scholl can concentrate on innovative ways of marketing Notre Dame sports. Besides that, his job is unique in the field of collegiate sports marketing because he does not have to direct any of his efforts on football, basket­ball or fund raising. "We're fortunate here in that the (football and basketball) programs pretty much sell themselves. We're promoting women's basketball here as much as most people are pro­moting men's basketball at other schools. I don't know of any school that has a position where a person can worry only about Olympic sports." This leads many to the question of whether Notre Dame is laying the tracks for a much larger sports-marketing loco­motive. Perhaps other universi­ties will be in Notre Dame's sit­uation of Olympic sports pro­motion 10 or 15 years from now? Scholl has to think about this before he answers. "I think schools are going to concentrate on one or two pro­grams where they'll really put in a lot of effort," he surmises. "I don't think you'll find a lot of schools that will actively pro­mote eight programs in addi­tion to the two main ones. Football puts us in a very unique situation." And so another Notre Dame story is reduced to its essen­tials: Irish football. Sports marketing here is in its promi­nent position because of what football gives to the University-revenue to improve the quality of life for its stu­dents. 
Scoreboard 

NBA STANDINGS 
HOW THE TOP 25 FARED 
XAVIER (50) BASEBALLEASTERN CONFERENCE 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Atlantic Division Patrick Division Greene 7-91-215, Campbelll-11 0-2 2, American LeagueTuesday: Trgovac 2-4 0-1 4, Blanton 4-13 2-2 11, Krmpotich DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms with w L Pet GB L10 Streak w L T P1s GF GA 
1. UNLV (16-0) did not play. Next: at San Jose Boston 31 11 .738-4-6 Wont NY Rangers 27 17 8 62 190159 4-13 4-8 12, Ernst 0-0 0-0 0, Knnannlein 2-3 0-4 4, Jerry Don Gleaton, pitcher, on a one-year contract . 
State, Thursday. Philadelphia 23 19 .548 8 3-7 Lost 1 Pittsburgh 28 21 3 59 224191 Spann 0-1 0-0 0, Colborn 1-2 0-0 2, Shaffer 0-1 0-Announced a lour-year player development 
2. Arkansas (20-1) did not play. Next: vs. 

Washington 19 24 .442 12 1/2 4-6 Wont Philadelphia 26 22 6 58 182170 0 0. Totals 21-57 7-19 50. contract with Toledo of the International League. 
Alabama-Birmingham. Wednesday. 

NOTRE DAME (74) National LeagueNew York 18 24 .429 13 4-6 Lost3 New Jersey 21 21 10 52 190176 
3. Ohio State (17-0) did not play. Next: at New Jersey 14 28 .333 17 4-6 Lost 1 Washington 23 27 3 49 167178 Alexander 0-4 1-2 1, Davis 3-7 0-0 6, Nowlin 1-4 ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Michigan State, Thursday. 
Miami tt 32 . 256 20 tl2 2-8 Lost5 NY Islanders 18 27 6 42 148182 0-0 2, Washington 10-14 0-0 24, Robinson 5-17 2-Juan Berenguer, pitcher, on a two-year contract . 
4. Indiana (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. Central Division Adams Division 2 12, Leary 0-0 0-0 0, Liebscher 6-1 0 1-1 13, Designated Jim Vatcher, outfielder, for assignment. 
Wisconsin, Wednesday. Chicago 29 12 .707 tl2 8-2 Wont Boston 29 16 8 66 191 167 Knapp 5-13 0-0 10, Olorsky 2-3 0-0 6. Totals 32-72 NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms with
5. St. John's (15-2) did not play. Next: at No. 18 

Detroit 3t t3 .705-8-2 Won3 Montreal 28 19 5 61 173153 4-5 74. Charlie O'Brien, catcher, and Julio Valera, pitcher, 
Georgetown, Wednesday. Milwaukee 27 18 .600 4tl2 2-8 Lost 6 Buffalo 21 20 10 52 182174 Halftime-Notre Dame 39, Xavier 19. 3-point on one·year contracts. 
6. Arizona (16-3) did not play. Next: vs. 

goals-Xavier 1-4 (Blanton 1-4), Notre Dame 6-7 BASKETBALLAtlanta 24 19 .558 6t/2 5-5 Lost4 Hartford 22 24 5 49 148175 Washington State, Thursday. 
(Washington 4-4, Olorsky 2-2, Liebscher 0-1 ). National Basketball AssociationIndiana t7 24 .415 12 112 5-5 Won2 Quebec 10 33 9 29 147 233 
7. Duke (16-4) did not play. Next: at No. 23 Cleveland t4 28 .333 16 3-7 Wont CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Rebounds-Xavier 34 (Trgovac 11), Notre Dame CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Acquired EricGeorgia Tech, Wednesday. 
Charlotte t3 28 .317 16t/2 3-7 Lost 1 Norris Division 51 (Alexander, Liebscher 7). Assists-Xavier 14 Lackner. center, from the Sacramento Kings lor a
8. Syracuse (18-3) did not play. Next: vs. Boston 

(Campbell, Trgovac, Krmpotich 3), Home 22 1995 second-round draft pick and future WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T P1s GF GA College, Saturday. 
(Liebscher 5). A--622. considerations.
Midwest Division Chicago 34 15 4 72 177134 
9. North Carolina (14-3) did not play. Next: at w L Pet GB L10 Streak St. Louis 29 15 7 65 197157 
INDIANA PACERS-Activated Vern Fleming,

Clemson, Thursday. San Antonio 30 11 .732-7-3 Lost t Detroit 22 25 5 49 174 192 NOTRE DAME (73) guard, lrom the injured list. Waived Byron Dinkins, 
10. Kentucky (16-3) beat Auburn 89-81. Next: 

Ellery 3-7 5-6 11, Jon Ross 1-2 0-0 2, Tower 8-11 guard.
Utah 28 t5 .654 3 5-5 Wont Minnesota 15 30 9 39 158 186 vs. Georgia, Sunday. 
6-8 22, Singleton 2-4 1-2 5, Bennett 3-11 8-9 15, Continental Basketball AssociationHouston 23 20 .535 8 4-6 Won3 Toronto 13 33 5 31 147 2t2 
11. Nebraska (17-2) did not play. Next: vs. Dallas 15 26 .366 t5 3-7 Won2 Smythe Division Joe Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Sweet 9-14 0-4 18, Boyer 0-0 GSA-suspended Jerry Stroman, YakimaMissouri, Wednesday. 
0-0 0, Cozen 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 26-50 20-29 73. forward. for failing a random drug test. 
Minnesota 13 27 .325 t6112 4-6 Lost4 Los Angeles 28 17 5 61 204 161 
12. UCLA (15-4) did not play. Next: at Southern 

Denver 12 30 .286 t8112 6-4 Won4 Calgary 26 20 5 57 208 169 DAYTON(67) TULSA FAST BREAKERS-Signed Chris
California, Wednesday. 

Robertson 2-8 6-7 12, Coffee 2-2 2-3 6, Shayok Washburn, center. Named Jim Price assistant Orlando 11 32 .256 20 2-8 Won 1 Edmonton 24 22 3 51 165157 
13. Utah (19-1) did not play. Next: at Texas-EI 

5-11 0-010, Jones 12-24 2-4 28, Dukes 1-5 0-0 2, coach.
Pacific Division Winnipeg 18 28 8 44 175 187 
Paso, Thursday. Portland 37 7 .841 -8-2 Won7 Vancouver 19 29 4 42 161195 Sicard 1-2 0-1 2, Grevey 2-8 0-0 6, Scrutchins 0-2 FOOTBALL
14. LSU (13-4) did not play. Next: vs. Mississippi

LA Lakers 30 .732 tO-O Won11 1-2 1. Richter 0-0 0-0 0, Smith 0-0 0-0 0, Howard National Football League
tt 5 1/2 Tuesday's Games State, Wednesday. 
0-1 0-0 o. Totals 25-63 11-17 67. CINCINNATI BENGALS-Named David Shula Phoenix 27 14 .659 St/2 7-3 Lost 1 N.Y. Islanders 8, Hartford 1 
15. Virginia (15-4) beat North Carolina State 

Halftime-Notre Dame 37, Dayton 29. 3-point wide receivers coach. 
Golden State 24 17 .585 tt 112 8-2 Won3 Pittsburgh 3, Washington 2, OT 
104-72. Next: vs. Wake Forest, Saturday. 

goals-Notre Dame 1-2 (Bennett 1-2), Dayton 6-22 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Announced theSeattle 19 22 .463 16 112 4-6 Lost2 Winnipeg 5, Quebec 2 
16. East Tennessee State (16-2) did not play. 

(Robertson 2-5, Shayok 0-1, Jones 2·6, Dukes 0-2, resignation of Patrick Sullivan, general manager. 
LA Clippers 15 27 .357 21 4-6 Wont St. Louis 8, Buffalo 3 
Next: at Memphis State, Wednesday. 

Grevey 2-7, Howard 0-1). Rebound~Notre Dame HOCKEYSacramento 12 28 .300 23 5-5 Won 1 Wednesday's Games 
17. Southern Mississippi (12-2) did not play. 

31 (Tower 11), Dayton 38 (Shayok 10). National HockeY LeagueTuesday's Games Winnipeg at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
Next: at Southwestern Louisiana, Wednesday. 

Assists-Notre Dame 21 (Singleton 9), Dayton 15 DETROIT RED WINGS-Recalled AlainLate Games Not Included Detroit at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 
18. Georgetown (12-5) did not play. Next: vs. No. Cleveland 125, Charlotte 106 N.Y. Rangers at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
(Dukes 8). A-13,182. Chevrier, goalie, lrom San Diego of the 
5 St. John's, Wednesday. Orlando 114, Phoenix 112 Vancouver at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
International Hockey League and Gord Kruppke, 
19. Pittsburgh (15-5) did not play. Next: vs. Washington 105, Miami 101 New Jersey at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
NBA ALL·STAR ROSTERS defenseman, lrom Adirondack of the American 
Villanova at the Spectrum, Wednesday. Houston 91, San Antonio 89 
Hockey League. Sent Dave Gagnon. goalie, and 
20. New Mexico State (15-2) did not play. Next: 

WEST EAST
NHL LINESCORES Chris Luongo, defenseman, to Adirondack.
Dallas 117. Seattle 112 at Long Beach State, Saturday. Karl Malone, Utah Larry Bird, Bos. 
Denver 126, Milwaukee 122 ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled David Bruce, 
21. Oklahoma (14-5) did not play. Next: at Iowa Chris Mullin, GS Charles Barkley, Phil. Utah 116 Atlanta 1OS David Robinson, SA Patrick Ewing, NY
Washington Q--2 right wing, lrom Peoria of the International Hockey
State, Wednesday. 

New York at LA Clippers, (n) Pittsburgh 1-3 Kevin Johnson, Phoe. Michael Jorden, Chi. League.
22. New Orleans (17-3) did not play. Next: vs. New Jersey at LA Lakers, (n) 
Magic Johnson, LAL x·lslah Thomes, Det. VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Sent Craig Coxe, 
Northeastern Illinois, Wednesday. 

Buffalo 1-3 James Worthy, LAL Bernard King, Wash. St. Louis 2--8 23. Georgia Tech (12-5) did not play. Next: vs. Tom Chambers, Phoe. Domimque Wilkins. All Orlando at Boston. 7:30 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games forward, to Milwaukee of the International Hockey 
League.
No. 7 Duke, Wednesday. Kevin Duckworth, Port. Kevin McHale, Bas. Cleveland at Detroit. 7:30 p.m. Winnipeg 2-5 Clyde Drexler, Port. Brad Daugherty. Cle. 
COLLEGE
24. Kansas (14-4) beat Kansas State 78-69. Charlotte at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Quebec 1-2 Tim Hardaway, GS Robert Parish, Bas. 
LOUISIANA STATE-Reinstated WayneNext: at Iowa State, Saturday. 

Phoenix at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Terry Porter, Port. Joe Dumars, Det. Sims, lorward, to the basketball team.
25. Seton Hall (13-5) lost to Providence 65-62. 

John Stockton Utah Ricky Pierce, Mil
N.Y. Islanders 1--8 ST. JOHN'S, N.Y.-Named Dave Masur men's Next: at No. 5 St. John's, Saturday. Bold-starter x-rnjured Alvin Robertson, Mil.
Sacramento at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
Hartford 1-1 soccer coach. 




TO: STUDENTS CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR STATUS IN THE FACE OF A POSSIBLE UPCOMING MILITARY DRAFT 
A group of faculty members is in possession of relevant information and eager to be of assistance to students for the clarification of issues and formation of conscience through confidential conversation. 
The Office of Campus Ministry~will function as a liaison between students and faculty in this issue and will maintain files as required for possible future draft proceedings. 
Contact Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library, 239-7800 for further information and a ointments. 

---~~ 

Wednesday, January 30, 1991 The Observer page 13 
... 


Pistons' Thomas will miss rest of season 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•THE ND CRICKET CLUB will have a practice and organizational meeting today at 10 p.m. in Loftus. All interested 
students and faculty are encouraged to attend and bring equipment. Call Mark at x3419 or Tim at x1556 for information. 
•FELLOWSHIP OF CHRISTIAN ATHLETES is playing walleyball today at %p.m. in the JACC. Newcomers welcome. Bible study is on Thursday at 7 p.m., basement of Pangborn. Come out for loads of fun. Question? Call Mark Zoia, x1606. 
.rHE HAPKIDO CLUB meets Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30 
p.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
•ANYONE 
interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due on Friday, Feb. 3. Any questions or comments should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 234-8817. 

•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE CLUB will hold a meeting on Thursday, January 31 at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, St. Mary's. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 

•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE is looking for a coach. Anyone interested, call Cathy at 284-4456. 



Give to the United Way. 
'Y 


Attention Seniors 
lmi!w.> fr© ~l.mfi©~ Wednesday January 30 
Buses leave at 6:00 pm from library circle and leave Chicago at 1 :00 am (South Bend times) Tickets are available in the Senior Class Office from 3-5 for only $10 
AlJBlJHN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­lsiah Thomas had bones in his right hand fused on Tuesday and the surgeon who performed the operation said it is unlikely the Detroit Pistons guard will play again this sea­son. 
"I suppose if his wrist is real solid and the bone is real sturdy, he could play sometime in May, but f'm a little nervous setting him loose on a basket­ball court until I'm convinced he's ready," Dr. Kirk Watson said. 
Thomas, 29, underwent a 45­minute operation at Hartford Hospital Tuesday morning and then headed back to Detroit. Thomas, selected the most valuable player in the NBA fi­nals as Detroit won its second straight NBA title last season, will have the hand in a cast un­til March 19 and can't play basketball for eight weeks after thn cast is rnmoved, Watson said. 
That 15-week recuperation period is three weeks longer than the one that Pistons offi­cials had hoped for. 
Dr. Benjamin Paolucci, the Pistons' team physician, was slightly more optimistic that Watson. 
"It is anticipated that his re­turn to basketball might be as early as the first week in May" after a 13-week recuperation, Paolucci said Tuesday. 
The deterioration of Thomas' wrist also has caused some mi­nor arthritis, but that may clear, Watson said. 
"I would not have wanted him to wait until June to undergo surgery or the arthritis might have been much worse," Watson said. 
The operation involved taking a graft from Thomas' forearm and fusing the scaphoid bone, one of eight small bones in the wrist, to two other bones to keep it from rotating and fur­ther damaging ligaments. 
Watson performed similar surgery on Adrian Dantley in 1983, and he came back to lead the NBA in scoring in 1984. 
Watson said he was "very pleased" with the operation and expressed confidence that Thomas will come back strong. 
Thomas decided to have the operation when, after being ex­amined by Watson, he per­formed poorly against Boston last Wednesday. The wrist had been bothering him for about nine months. 
"He has a very, very high threshold of pain," McCloskey said at the time. "He just couldn't go on." 
Thomas, who has averaged 20 points and 9.8 assists in 10 NBA seasons, was averaging a career-low 16 points a game this season. 
He will miss a scheduled start in the NBA All-Star Game on Feb. 10. Thomas and Chicago's Michael Jordan were picked as the guards for the Eastern Conference team. 
The Pistons are 3-0 since re­placing Thomas on the roster with former Piston John Long. 

Jeff Burgfechtel's 3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Option 1: Daytona Beach 
$179 Base Price 
+ 95 Bus Transportation 
$274.00 

Option II: South Padre Island 

$239 Base Price 
+ 120 Bus Transportation 
$359.00 

Trip Includes: 
* 
Eight Days/Seven Nights on the Daytona Beach Strip or on South Padre Island 

* 
Free pool deck parties with refreshments 

* 
All taxes and tips 

* 
Optional side excursions 


FOR FURTHER INFORMATION UD SIGN UP: Wed., Jan. 30 Last Year 160 students went Montgomery Theater LaFortune 
• 

OpUon 1: 7 p.m. C.UJ•IIIter..._o Option II: 8 p.m. 114-11087 
:>ponsored by Campus Marketing "".."'"""""""""'~cou•oo•ouos 

----------~------------------~~-------­page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 30, 1991 


Author of "Squeeze Play" speaks on women and sports writing 
American ExpressAnnouncesA GreatNew Travel Program. 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Nowstudents can getthe Card 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa· 
-
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending tive articles on summer j0bs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express"' Card. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place you'd like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the 
to visit. Ifit's on your side ofthe Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the . . .. . ,•, ....... territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
Membership Has Its Privileges"' 




CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember; there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arrit•ing soon. CONTINENTAL 
Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive wuh your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability £or Cominental Airlines' performance. © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
By CHRIS COONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
For Jane Leavy the issue of women reporters in men's locker rooms has little to do with physical nakedness. 
"Nudity per se isn't the is­sue," said Leavy, who spent five years surveying the scene as a sportswriter for the Washington Post. "It's with being seen for what you are. Vulnerability is the issue." 
Leavy, speaking on "Sportswriting: A Woman's Place" Tuesday night, said that while most men readily talk to women reporters in locker rooms, the reluctance some players feel centers not on ex­posing body parts but on re­vealing their true selves. 
"In the era of 'personality journalism,' reporters have the ability to undress the celebrity on the page," said Leavy. 
Male athletes seem especially willing to tell women reporters about aspects of their personal lives, an openness Leavy sees as an advantage that women journalists have over their male colleagues. 
"The truth is male athletes tell women things they would never tell men writers," Leavy said. · 
Leavy stated that women usually ask athletes different types of questions, eliciting dif­ferent pieces of information. 
"Athletes get tired of compet­ing with male writers who can't possibly know as much as they do but are determined to prove that they played ball too," said Leavy. She added that in cover­ing games, men's and women's stories are essentially the same. 
Leavy began working for the Post's sports section in 1979, when there were few women sportswriters. She noted that the over 400 women sportswriters in the United State today still face chal­lenges. 
"In sportswriting, gender is a double-edged sword," said Leavy. "It can work for you and it can work against you." 
The biggest difference, Leavy noted, is that the women can never become "one of the guys" as male reporters can. How­ever, Leavy feels this separation gives the women the perspective journalism requires and prevents them from falling into the "reverence" that "has always been a really big problem in sportswriting." 

Leavy added that some sports figures go out of their way to accommodate female writers. 
Leavy, who wrote her gradu­ate thesis at Columbia on Notre Dame graduate Red Smith, considered by many the best sportswriter in America's his­tory, moved to the Post's Style section in 1984 after tiring of the extensive travel involved in sports journalism. 
In 1989 she quit the paper 

and wrote her first novel, "Squeeze Play" about the expe­riences of a female journalist covering a professional base­ball team in Washington D.C. Norman Lear is planning to make the book into a movie. 
Part of "Squeeze Play" cen­ters around ethics and journal­ism and the power Leavy felt as she persuaded sports figures to talk about their private lives. Leavy often worried that she was betraying the athletes by printing the personal issues they discussed. 
But while reporters must re­spect an athlete's right to pri­vacy, Leavy feels they do have a responsibility to talk to the press and paying public. 
.---·-------------­
CAMPUS 
3:30 
p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Sem­inar, "Analysis and Testing for lnterlaminar Properties of Thick Orthotropic and Symmetric Laminates," Dr. Ajit 

K. 
Hoy, University of Dayton. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. · 


4:30p.m. Seminar, "B and T Cell Repertoire in Antigen­Fnw Mice," Dr. Nico Bos, University of Gronigen, The Netherlands. Room 146, Galvin Life Science Building. 
7:00 p.m. Film, "Shock Corridor." Annenberg Audito­rium, Snite Museum. 
7:00p.m. Workshop. "How to Research Companies." By Marilyn Hice, assistant director of Career and Placement SPrvices. In the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
9:00p.m. film, "High School." Annenberg Auditorium, Suite Musnum. 
9:30 p.m. AnTostal General Meeting #2. Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. Anyone interested in making AnTostal '91 "The Best Ever" should attend. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE

LECTURES 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Enemy Images," Dr. James Skelly, Peace Scholar at New York University and University of Limerick, Ireland. Multipurpose Room, Center for Social 
Concerns. 7:00p.m. Lecture, "From the Oral Poetry of Traditional 
South Afriea to the Oral Poetry of Afrieans in America," .JeiTrey Opland, professor, Vassar College. Auditorium, llesburgh Library. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Barbeque Ribs London Broil Noodles Romanoff 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wlb 'N()IJLD L I Kt. TO SUMMf..R IZE. W11f..l W~ JIJST 
R.£~0 :' Ct>.l'JIN, ~oW 
ABo\JT '1'00 7 
~t.i CAl'\ TRA~SR:>RI M~ 
g)py \0 SC\\OOL, BVT iHti ~T CAAIN !'-\~ Sf/l?.lf.' M~ SPIR.II R.OMv\S rRU.! \"'AU.S C.t>-N"' COt-mi'IE IT.' LAWS CAt-IT R£5WI\IN IT! f>.\l1\\o9.1\i 
1-lr...<s NO FQW£R o-JE.~ 11! 

\~~ 
14 I. 
~-~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
SOR.Ri .' l'tll \\ERE f>-Gt-.1!-IS\ M'i Will. I RHV5£ It> COOP£.Ril.lt. 
CAL'JIN, IF iO~J'D I'Vr 1-lA.\J ffi~ ~l'l't.~~ Of 'iQlJR f'R.Oit% IN\'{) iOJR SC\100l~K ... 
'bJ GN TR'i 1b 
\..£1>,'4£ A ME~()[. B\1\ 1'1\'i SI'IRIT SCR£ffi5 IT'S 
CII-US. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Unit of capacitance 
6 Actor Everett from South Bend 
10 Lip 14 Small egg 15 Scottish 
philosopher 16 "A Death in the 
Family" author 17 Commenced 1B Sandarac tree 19 Lose pep 20 Protests noisily 23 "-So Easy," 
Ronstadt song 24 Malayan gibbon 25 Goes into a 
rage 

1AV1A2rl0 ani h j" Qr\' ~ 
The Observer page 15 

57 Poem by Tennyson 58 Make well 59 Rustic roads 61 It may be Dutch 62 Chalet feature 63 Mink's kin 
64 "Coming of Age in Samoa" author 
65 Scott, the slave && Whatever person, old style 
DOWN 
1 Watch pocket 2 Assert 3 Anatomical 
wrinkle 4Jai-­5 Thickness 6 Dance step 7 "The Accidental 
Tourist" star B Oriental nurse 9 Negligent 

20 Tippler 10 Spiritual goal in 29Arete Zen Buddhism 
30 Labyrinth locale 11 Exchange 
31 Of the nose premium 
32 Last Supper 12 Lord's lackey 
utensil 13 Meet a bet 
36 Wine casks 21 Numerical suffix 38 Waylaid 22 Chest murmur 39 Band leader 
25 Weight Brown 26 Kind. of vein 40 Greek vowel 27 Chisholm or 42 Bad way to run? 
Santa Fe 43 Purple martin 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE 

SPELUNKER 
33 Crazylegs Hirsch of football fame 
34 Sprint 
35Skill 
37 Decree 
3D Watchful 
40 Jacob's twin 
41--chi 
(self-defense system) ' 42 --Brothers of songdom 43 Blemish 44 Has cabin fever 48 Former French coin 49 Old musical note 50 Paces nervously 
45 What no man is? 

46 Well---(rich) 
47 Peri 
50 Used a loom 
51 Tract 
52 Rend 
53 0wn 
54 Vow 55 Double preposition 56 Nickleby 
portrayer 57 Actor Deluise so Angel's favorite 
letters 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
GARY LARSON 



.P~~mJ 
Although history has long forgotten them, Lambinl & Sons are generally credited with the Sistine Chapel floor. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD  TIX ON SALE TOMORROW FOR JJNlJJ) JJrG@ rGJJJRJL~ 10 AM AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK $8.00 ND/SMC STUD. W/IDS {1 TICKET/ ID; MAX 6 IDS/ PERSON} $10.00 NON-STUDENT • CONCERT: VALENTINE'S DAY 7:30PM AT STEPAN CENTER  


Notre Dame rebounds to beat Dayton Flyers 73-67 
By SCOTI BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
DAYTON, Ohio-Fighting in­stead of flinching, the Notre Dame men's basketball team traveled into a hostile University of Dayton Arena Tuesday night and beat the Flyers 73-67, leaving one coach grinning and another gaping. 
"We played a great game tonight, we bounced back tonight," said a beaming Irish head coach Digger Phelps. ·"We did a lot of good things tonight, and these kids just showed that they've got a lot of mind and a lot of heart." 
Meanwhile, second-year Dayton coach Jim O'Brien was surprised by Notre Dame's ability to handle Dayton's usu­ally pestering press. 
"The main factor was that they controlled the tempo by not allowing us to get much out of our press," said O'Brien, who saw his team score the fewest points since he has been coaching the Flyers. "If you're 




Sports 

page 16 Wednesday, January 30, 1991 
press, and we knew what we had to do," said Phelps. "We just went after it. We took ad­vantage of what they gave us, and a lot of teams won't do that." 
Notre Dame shot 52 percent form the floor, led by the im­pressive 8 for 11 performance from Tower, who had 22 points and 11 rebounds. The Irish held Dayton to 25 of 63 shooting (39. 7 percent), including 6 for 22 (27 .3 percent) from behind the three­point stripe. 
Flyers' scoring dynamo Chip Jones, despite leading all scor­ers with 28 points, was able to sink only one free throw with 54 seconds left in the game, cutting the Notre Dame advan­tage to 69-65. The Irish came up with two free throws on the other end by Kevin Ellery, mak­ing the score 71-65 with 0:36 remaining and putting the game out of reach. 
"This was a big confidence 
The Observer I Scott McCann 

Irish center Keith Tower had a career-high 22 points to go with 11 see DAYTON/page 11 rebounds in Notre Dame's 73-67 win over Dayton. 
Irish center is truly a Tower of Power 

not scoring, you aren't getting into your press." 
The victory for Notre Dame came on the heels of Saturday's 68-67 loss to No. 18 Virginia, in which the Irish squandered an eight-point lead with 1:40 remaining. This time the Irish did not buckle. 
With 1:52 left, Dayton dis­tance-shooting specialist Norm Grevey hit a three-pointer to narrow the Irish lead to 66-62. After Notre Dame center Keith Tower made one of two free throws on the other side of the floor, Dayton's Sudanese import Makor Shayok sent a hook over Tower that made it 67-64 with 
1:35 remaining. 
The Irish, instead of faltering under the Dayton press, took advantage of the mass of bodies under the Dayton basket by sending a Kevin Ellery inbounds pass to a bolting Daimon Sweet. Sweet beat 6-11 forward Wes Coffee on the breakaway and bounced a layup off the glass to make the score 69-64. 
"We've been working on the 

Marketing Olympic sports is an art at Notre Dame 


Ever seen those colorful table tents in the dining hall that advertise Notre Dame's sports activities for a given weekend? Or those concept-conscious posters that herald a coming sporting extravaganza such as "Weekend of Champions" or "Baseball Fall Classic?" How about that Swatch shootout during halftime of basketball games, in which a lucky student gets a chance to shoot three baskets and win scholarship money? 
These are projects that are spawned 
Scott Brutocao 
Irish Items 

through sports marketing, an exciting new field in collegiate athletics that has skyrocketed in the last decade. It is also a field that Notre Dame is helping to pioneer through its original approach to Olympic sports promotion. 
Enter Bill Scholl, Sports Marketing Manager at Notre ·Dame for 1 1/2 years. Before Scholl was here, sports marketing was just a secondary consideration, a tack-on idea that went with another employee's job. And when Scholl was an undergraduate here in the late-'70's, sports marketing was an alien term. 
Under Scholl's guidance, however, visibility has increased in such sports as hockey, baseball, wrestling, women's basketball, soccer, volleyball, tennis and swimming. The plan is to turn fans' attention to Olympic sports and to increase attendance at home games. 
And it's working. 
"I grew up in South Bend, and the image of some of the 
see ITEMS/page 12 


By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 

DAYTON, Ohio-It was simply the best game of Keith Tower's career, showcased in front of 13,182 screaming fans at Dayton Arena. 
Many people have questioned the junior's ability to come up with a big game when the Irish need his help most. With his 22-point performance on 8 of 11 shooting, Tower lifted the Irish to a much-needed win. 
After scoring six points and pulling down seven rebounds in the opening half, Tower made his presence known in the second stanza. When Notre Dame's lead was cut to four with 16:45 left, Tower cranked his game up a notch, scoring six of the next nine Irish points. His offensive threat was something the Irish had lacked pre­viously. 
"Sometimes Keith can think too much," Irish coach Digger Phelps said. "He would have an eight-foot shot and try to get a layup or a 12-foot shot. Now I've got him to just read the shot and be more aggressive on the boards and then worry about everything else. I think he's got a lot of confidence doing that." 
Tower heeded his coach's words, snagging key rebounds after many of Dayton's errant three­point attempts. 
"When you take the three-point shots, the longer the shot, the longer the rebound will be," Tower said. "I had to make sure I didn't get caught too far underneath. The coaches harped on that all week in practice. You can't feel like you have good position when the shot is going 
up. We had to make sure we respected the long rebound." Tower also made a respectable showing at the foul line, hitting six of eight from the stripe. "We hit our free throws at the end and stopped people when we had to," Tower said. 
Tower and the Irish put the last-minute blunders to rest against Dayton, although the Flyers· did connect on two three-pointers in the final2:45. 
"This is the best we've executed in the last five minutes all season," said Tower, who recorded his first double-double of the year (points and rebounds). 
After an eight-point, 35-minute performance in the loss against Virginia, Tower endured 37 minutes against a physical Dayton team. His im­pressive offensive output, however, was unexpected. 
"With LaPhonso out of the lineup, it's going to be an opportunity to work on the offensive moves I learned in summer camp," Tower said. "Had we just come running down and taken the first quick shot, we would have played right into their hands." 
But instead, the Irish patiently waited for the open shot, refusing to run an up-tempo game after breaking the Dayton press. 
"Sometimes you've got to pass up a shot because you know you're going to get the same shot three or four passes later," Tower said. 
Essentially Notre Dame played the same type of game that they showed Virginia. But this time, the Irish did it for 40 minutes instead of 38. 
It's not pretty but 19th-ranked Irish hoopsters defeat Xavier 7 4-50 

By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's 74-50 victory over Xavier last night was not a basketball purist's dream. 
The Irish women didn't come close to displaying the form which has earned them a 13-3 record, a team-record 12-game winning streak, an MCC-record 32 consecutive conference vic­tories and the 19th spot in the most recent Associated Press poll. 
But the Lady Musketeers (11­
7) did nothing to take advan­tage of Notre Dame's poor play. Xavier has been struggling recently without the services of starting guard Annette Trenkamp, out due to tendini­tis. She missed her third straight game, and the Lady Musketeers have lost all three. 
"(Her injury) hurts us, be­cause we're not a deep team," Xavier head coach Mark Ehlen, "but we needed Michael Jordan tonight in order to win." 
The two teams combined for 52 turnovers, 41.1 percent field goal shooting, and 45.8 percent free throw shooting. It was the type of game Irish head coach Muffet McGraw feared coming off an eight-day break from ac­tion. 
"We played pretty well in spurts," McGraw said. "It's al­ways nice to win at home, but I think we need to get back into game form." 
Only Coquese Washington and Sara Liebscher weren't affected by the time off. 
Washington scored a career­
high 24 points on 10-14 
shooting, including a perfect 4­
4 from three-point range. 
"I'm really not looking to 
score, but tonight I was open, 
and my shots were going in, so 
I felt comfortable taking them," 
Washington said. 
"We came into the game 
thinking, 'Coquese won't look 
for her shot.' That's what I told 
my players," Ehlen said. "We 
knew she could shoot, but I 
didn't think she would look for ·her shot quite that much." Liebscher added 13 points, seven rebounds, and five steals. 
Karen Robinson had a rare 
off-night for the Irish, hitting 
only five of 17 shots in scoring 
only 12 points. 
"She's really been shooting 

well in practice, so I'm a little surprised that she was as cold as she was," McGraw said. Xavier was led by Monique Greene with 15 points. Sheryl Krmpotich added 12 and Kim Blanton 11, but most of the Lady Musketeers' scoring came during garbage time-a cause for concern for McGraw. 
"I thought the last seven min­utes were very ugly," she said. "It's the bench. They come into the game and they're not play­ing well together. It's something they have to improve on. 
"We got up 20, and then we relaxed, and that's something we just can't do. We have to play hard the whole game." 
The Irish opened up a 39-19 halftime lead on the strength of Washington's 15 points at the intermission. In the second half, the lead grew to as much as 31, 68-37, with 9:01 remain­ing. 
A big factor in the Irish win was their defense of Xavier's three-point shooting. The Lady Musketeers' are ranked among the nation's leaders from three­point range, but Notre Dame held them to 1-4 shooting from outside the arc-while hitting 6-7 itself-in holding Xavier to 27 points below its season av­erage. 
"We knew coming in the game that they wanted to shoot three-pointers," Washington said. "We felt if we could take the three-point aspect of their game away, they would have to rely on the block, and we could shut them down from there." 







