'"
....~..--~..--~----~~----------~~--~----~~~--~~-----------~~----~-~ ~.·~. 
l.~ 
~~.w~~I~ -Q~
---1!1---1 
1142·1992 
Saint Mary's College
SESQUI C ENTIN NIA L 
I 
.,OTRE OA.ME •I NOlANA 
.J
~ ···----
Zl 1
(lf.,/31/92: 
'1BER 9, 1991
VOL. XXIV NO. 11 cOLL EC T I OI·~S
SPECIAL LIBRARY
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING N HESF~UF:GH 
IN 46556
NOTRE DAME 


MOSCOW (AP) -The south­ern republic of Azerbaijan held its first popular presidential election Sunday, but its current leader, a former Communist chief, was the only candidate on the ballot. 
About 50,000 opponents of President Ayaz Mutalibov car­ried blank ballots to Freedom Square in Baku, the capital, to protest the election, the inde­pendent Turan news agency 
said. 
They demanded the resigna­tion of the government, urged the creation of strike commit­tees and demanded access to the republic's news media, Tu­ran said. 
In Soviet one-candidate elec­tions, voters can approve or re­ject the candidate. But voter turnout was heavy and Presi­dent Ayaz Mutalibov was ex­pected to win easily, news agencies reported. Official re­sullc; were expected Monday at the earliest. 
Mutalibov, leader of the re­public since 1990, called the election in June, months before an Aug. 18-21 hard-line coup in Moscow led to the disintegra­tion of the Communist Party and central control. He quit as leader of the Azerbaijan Com­munist Party after the coup. 
An opposition figure withdrew 

Lou levitates 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Numerous football fans including this girl pose with a life-size poster-board picture of Notre Dame Head Football Coach Lou Holtz. This was amongst the many football festivities last Saturday. 
Former Indiana state government employee is charging sexual harassment 
---·• ....., I "tteJ 'V " I v 
his candidacy last week and the Meanwhile, "intense shoot­
opposition called for balloting to ing" was reported in the South be postponed, claiming they Ossetia region of the neighbor­had not had the time or ing republic of Georgia, Tass resources to organize a credible reported. campaign. 
It said several Georgians and 
The Muslim republics of the South Ossetians were killed and Soviet Union traditionally have many were wounded in the vio­been the most supportive of lence near the city of Kremlin policies and the last to Vladikavkaz. The exact number 
adopt the democratic principles of casualties was not given. The that other republics have em­news agency had reported Sat-braced. 
see SOVIET/ page 4 

Leningrad honors fighters of Nazi seige 
LENINGRAD, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­
Nearly 1,000 veterans and sur­
vivors of the 900-day Nazi siege 
of Leningrad honored the vic­
tims Sunday in a solemn march 
through the city, which soon 
will lose its wartime name. 
Leningrad, the country's sec­
ond-largest city, will officially 
become St. Petersburg on Oct. 
1. 
Many veterans opposed the 
city's name change on the 
grounds that it would dishonor 
the victims and survivors of the 
horrific blockade that started 
on Sept. 8, 1941, and killed 
nearly 1 million residents by 
starvationand cold. 
But city residents voted to re­store the historic name, St. Petersburg, in a non-binding referendum in June. The executive committee of the Russian parliament certified the vote on Friday. 
Traditionally, a small, re­served tribute is held at a city cemetery on the anniversary of the start of the siege. 
But on Sunday, the elderly marchers, mostl.v women, sang Leningrad songs and walked to a single drumbeat down the central Nevsky Prospekt. 
Hundreds of people lined the streets under overcast skies to watch behind cordons of police. 
The veterans appeared re­signed that their city's name will be changed, although some remained adamantly opposed. 

"Leningrad should be Len­ingrad," said Klava Bogdan ova, a 66-year-old war survivor who lost nearly her entire family to famine during the blockade. 
But Vladimir Utyakin, who also lost family members, sup­ported the name St. Petersburg and said the change would not affect the facts of history. 
"It was called Leningrad during the blockade, and it will always be seen that way," he said. 
Although the name change will not be official until Oct. 1, many aren't waiting. Signs say­ing "Leningrad" have long been removed from the pre-revolu­tionary pastel buildings in the 


city center. 
Officials have said they need more time to change everything from street signs to residents' documents. 
The name change will be the third this century for the city of faded elegance and crumbling Czarist palaces on the banks of the Neva River. 
St. Petersburg was built by Peter the Great as a window to the West and bore his name for 200 years. The city was re­named Petrograd at the start of 
I

World War I because Peters­
I

burg was deemed to have a 
j

Germanic ring to it. Communist leaders named the city for So­
1

viet founder Vladimir Lenin after he died in 1924. ·I 

I 
j 

Computer literacy · · TheOb~erlfilephoto 
Many students test their skills at the Macintosh computer labs this week. The approaching first rounds of tests and papers are causing many to leave the sunshine and head for the library. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A former member of Gov. Evan Bayh's administration claims his immediate supervisor sexu­ally harassed him for more than a year after he ended their affair and that he was wrong­fully fired from his job. 
Barton "Bart" Bates, 38, former deputy director of pro­curement in the Department of Administration, has filed charges with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission alleging he is the victim of sexual and retaliatory discrimination. 
John Kish, commissioner of the department, said Bates "did not meet my expectations for performance for a person in that position." Kish also said Bates' former supervisor, Ma­bel Martin, the 33-year-old di­rector of procurement, denies she had an affair with Bates. 
Bates told The Indianapolis 
Star in a story published Sun­
day that he believes Kish fired him at Martin's request be­cause Bates had ended their sexual relationship. The alleged affair ended in May 1990, one month after he was hired on Martin's recommendation. 
Before the firing, Bates was promoted twice and his salary increased nearly 70 percent, which he said were efforts by Martin to win him back. 
Bates said he and Martin had had an ongoing sexual rela­tionship since 1986 and that the two lived together in Evansville for a few months in 1989. 
Martin said the two had din­ner once or twice while they were both lawyers in Evansville, but that the relationship was not intimate. 
Bates said that when he de­cided to end the relationship, it set off a series of sexual ha­rassment incidents, which in-eluded an increase in his work­load and a declaration of "war" by Martin. 

"The stress got so bad. She was on me all the time," Bates said. 
He said he asked Kish for a 
job transfer in March and 
waited four months before 
writing him a letter again ex­
plaining the "unbearable" situ­
ation and listing more incidents 
of the alleged harassment. 
Three days later, Kish fired 
him. 
The Equal Employment Op­
portunity Commission received 
the state's response to Bates' 
charges Friday. While the reply 
is confidential, Kish said it 
states the allegations are false 
and "there was no sexual rela­
tionship" between Bates and 
Martin. 
Bates is represented by at­
torney Timothy Bookwalter, 
who also represents Mary 
Cartwright, the former Hoosier 
Lottery personnel director who 
has filed two lawsuits against
the state. 

FORECAST: Cooler today, highs in 80s. A chance of thunderstorms to­night, low of 70. Chance of rain to­
morrow. High of 80. 
TEMPERATURES: 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Yocream has its pluses and 
•


m1nuses 
It's early in the year, and before we get into the doldrums of debating such pointless issues as SUFR rights, the recognition of the gay and lesbians of ND/SMC, and other assorted political nonsense, I want to talk about something that has some actual bearing on ------­our lives. Yes, that's right, I'm speaking of the dining hall's newest creation, Yocream.s In case you're a freshman, Yocream is a new member of the Notre Dame family. The "premium soft-serve frozen yogurt" has been an extremely popular addition to the menu. I'll be the first one to admit that the stuff is great. If you can manage to smuggle some out, (which is like trying to get gold out of Ft. Knox), it can make some tasty shakes. Like anything else though, Yocream too has its bad points. First of all, I want to know which way is the proper one to make a cone. Should one use the "straight smash-it-down" method or the fancier "twist-it-around until your wrist falls off" method? When I was attempting to dispense a cone one shiny day, a girl in line behind me casually informed me, "you don't know how to make a cone." She then informed me that she worked at one of those frozen yogurt places this summer and proceeded to construct a cone that easily excelled the height of the Hesburgh Library. I'll confess, and my friends will gladly attest, that my future does not lie within the realms of Dairy Queen. I'm world famous for my lopsided cones, and mistakes that end up on 
mv h::~nrl ::~nrl T <rHt><;o;: T'm l~>::~rnina tn rll'>::~l 

with my Yocream deficiency. I just blame it on a lack of the Dairy Queen gene. One of the main questions I have, which may sound trivial, is why some people get half a bowl of the chocolate and half of vanilla. I swear I've seen it on more than one occasion. Why not get a whole bowl of the twist? Have I gone wacko, or are they really better separate? Another observation, brought to my attention by an anonymous dining hall goer, was the abnormally skewed ratio in the lines for Yocream. As he pointed out, and I quote from him: "Look at that ratio, 9 girls to 1 guy. You won't fmd a ratio like this anywhere else on campus." I just discounted this as a freak oddity at first. But, the more I watched the lines, the worse the ratios got. I checked at dinner, and sure enough, it was the worst yet, 13 to 1. Now, I'm not trying to make any kind of a statement about who should eat what or anything like that. By all means, everyone 
should eat what ever pleases them. f'm just trying to figure out this numerical phe­nomenon. My theory, which is quite unscientific, is that guys are just plain frightened when they see such an unfamiliar ratio. It's intimidating to see a positive ratio after being exposed to the regular Notre Dame ratio for three years. I really don't know why girls are attracted to the Yocream machine more than guys. But, I figure if I save my money, I too can enjoy the best ratios at Notre Dame in the comfort of my own room. 
80s 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Soviet Jews Celebrate New Year 

•MOSCOW -Hopes for democracy mixed with fears of renewed anti-Semitism as Soviet Jews celebrated Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new year, in their transformed country Sunday night.About 3,000 Jews crowded Moscow's main synagogue to usher in year 5, 752, according to the traditional Jewish count. They included guests from the United States and Israel, and from such Soviet republics as Azerbaijan and Georgia. "The economic situation is getting worse from day to day, and history shows the Jews are always blamed. So I have decided to leave," said Ann Margolin a, 28. She said she 
......-_.1 ! ... ._...._ !...........:..,_......J, ~ \lvNand.oZ'\ '"·ill 6V tv :.!i.u L'n.it.cd Sta tea. 
"There is no future for the Jews here," said another celebrant, Bella Kosyaskaya, 67. Soviet emigration to the United States and most other Western countries, for both Jews and non-Jews, is limited by strictly enforced quotas. 
NATIONAL 


•wASHINGTON -A dissident blac Catholic group ordained a woman as a priest Sunday and appointed her head lmani Temple in west Philadelphia. About 800 people attended the ceremony where Rose Vernell, 50, a former nun and school administrator from New Jersey, was elevated from deacon to priest by Bishop George Stallings Jr., who founded the African American Catholic Congregation after leaving the Roman Catholic Church in 1989. Vernell is scheduled to celebrate her first mass Sept. 22. HThere is a need for the Catholic Church to stop 
OF INTEREST 
•Today 
Is the deadline to sign up for the Summer Service Project Retreat. Come into the Center for Social Concerns today to fill out the registration form. The dates for the Retreat are: Sept. 27, 6 p.m. to Sept. 29, noon. 

•COTH 
auditions for "Night of the Assassins" will be held tonight in the Laboratory Theatre of Washington Hall at 7 p.m. Director Devin Dreyer will be looking for a multi-racial cast. Come prepared to move. 


paying lip service and to enforce with concrete action a statement that women are equal to men," Stallings had said Friday. "Therefore, the African American Catholic Congregation, in an act of self-determination and prophetic witness, is ordaining the first female priest in a historic Catholic church other than the Episcopal Church." 
Oldest American celebrates birthday 

•LINDSIDE, W.Va. -Ettie Mae Greene, America's oldest person, celebrated her 114th birthday Sunday with about 200 friends and relatives. Greene was honored with cake and punch at Springfield Comprehensive Care Center, where she lives. Four of Greene's children and us ol her ll gran<1chl1<1ren were on hana tor the festivities, said granddaughter Rita Barker. Greene is the third-oldest person in the world, according to the Guinness Book of World Records. A former farmer and seamstress, Greene has said a daily milkshake, a vitamin and "good, clean living" are the keys to her longevity.Grecne has outlived five of her nine children and has been a widow for 72 years. She has 47 great­grandchildren and 37 great-great-grandchildren. 
CAMPUS 
UCC begins weekly advice column 

•Notre 
Dame, IN -The Observer will begin running a weekly advice column, according to Lisa Eaton, managing editor. The column, titled "Counselor Corner," will consist of responses to personal letters contributed by Observer readers. The University Counsiling Center will respond to the letters. Readers are encouraged to write letters to Counselor Corner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

•Notre 
Dame Mock Trial will have an organizational meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Any interested Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduates should attend or contact Amy Cashore at 283-2538 or Mike Moreland at 283-4069. 

•comedians 
needed. Auditions for Irish Accent will take place Sept. 16, at 6:30 p.m. in Walsh Hall. Bring yourself and your creativity. Questions call Tim or Doug at 283-2266. 


Production Lisa Bourdon Michelle Wood  Today's Staff Sports Rich Kurz  
Accent Mike Lorenzo Paige Smoron  Scoreboard Jim Vogl  
News Pete Loftus Megan Junius  VIewpoint Rich Riley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AH reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 6 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX A 166.42 Million 217.17 v 1.91 S&P COMPOSITE 396.64 • 3.58 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,011.63 i) 3.13 


PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-ft $2.10 to $349.10/oz. SR..VER 1}-10.5¢ to $3.69oz. 
City 
Athens Atlanta Berlin Boston Chicago Dallas·Ft.Worth Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles 
Madrid 
Miami Beach 
Moscow New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San Francisco seanle South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C 

H L 
90 68 
85 71 63 43 82 63 88 67 89 73 82 54 90 64 89 77 89 73 
88 60 73 57 77 63 91 66 84 74 57 36 
88 65 72 50 90 64 86 64 
87 73 
67 57 67 52 
90 62 81 73 86 66 
ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1850: Oilifumia l:ecBre tie 31st. st.ate cL tie lh.i.m. 

• 
In 1919: MJst of Ekst:al's 1, 500-ttan p::llice force went en 


~ 

• In 1926: 1m N3ti.CXlal. Broadcasting Cortpany (NB:) was created 1:¥ ~ Radio Coq:maticn of Anerica. 
•In 
1965: Sandy I<cufax of~ los ~es IXd;Jers pitched a prlect CJW1e ~tie Ori.cag::> a.b.J, ~ 1-(). 

• 
One year ago: PresicBrt: am arrl S::m.et. Pres.i.ci:r£ 


M:i..khail S. G:>rl::a<h!v held a cne-day SU'T1Tii..t in Helsinki., F.inla:rl. 
Monday, September 9,1991 The Observer page 3 

Weekend blessings The Observer/file photo 
The Hesburgh Library mosaic, known to most as "Touchdown Jesus" lived up to its name this past weekend. The Irish football team scored seven touchdowns against Indiana Saturday afternoon. 

CLUB COLUMN 
SEPTEMBER 9, 1991 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 
4:00 pm Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Eagle Scouts-The ND Flying Eagles will meet Thursday September 12 at 7:00pm in the basement of Keenan. All Eagle Scouts are encouraged to attend. For more information, contact Ed Miehle at 283-3310. 
Ballroom Dance-The Ballroom Dance Club will hold its first meeting on Thursday September 12 from 8:00-9:30pm in Stepan Center. No partner or experience is needed. 
Preprofessional-The Preprofessional Society will conduct its first meeting on Thursday September 12 at 7:00pm in 127 Nieuwland Science. 
Right to Life-The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Club reminds all its members of its informational meeting on Tuesday September 10 at 7:00 pm in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. All those interested are welcome. 


•
•
•
•
•
• • • 
•




ARIEL • • 
• 

•• 
8:10p.m. •• • Washington Hall • 
Tid:rt.c $1{ Students/$HI :\on·Studcnrs
•

• a,·ailablc at the • • LaFortune C'..cnter Box Offtee • 
• 

• .\riel i~ a ralcmctl Ruwan Popl-ianiSI whu h:~~ enamored autlierx:o • • around the ruunuv. His pcrfurmanl'CS inmrpnrJtc native Russian • : 'wric' "ith l"ntcmpurJI'. rudirion:~l :nKI ori~inal pianu pil.'l.'CS. : • \ l .S. l'itil.cnl4•r li\c \Car-. .\riel ha' 14tlluwcd his dream to brin~ • • rhc nu~il· ''"" ''omkr of rh.: piJnu w :\mcrit:a. •
• 

Notre Dame to host international aerodynamics symposium 
By FRANK RIVERA 1976. There will be papers pre­held at the following locations: Assistant News Editor sented from Western Europe, •1976-University of Paris, Japan, China, and for the first Paris, France 
The University of Notre Dame time since the Paris symposium, •1980-Ecole Polytechnique will host The Sixth International the USSR. Federale, Lausanne, Switzer­Symposium on Unsteady ..In recognition of the contin­land Aerodynamics, Aeroacoustics uous strong contribution to the •1984-Cambridge University, and Aeroelasticity in Turboma­field by Notre Dame re­Cambridge, England chines September 15-19. searchers," the International •1987-University of Aachen, 
ND Professor Hafiz Atassi, Scientific Committee in 1987 Aachen, West Germany Chairman of the International asked Atassi to organize the •1989-Beij ing Institute of Scientific Committee, is orga­sixth symposium in the United Aeronautics and Astronautics, nizing the meeting, which is States in 1991. Beijing, China aimed at ..promoting an inter­The lecture, which is national exchange between sci­The series first began with expected to attract about 150 
entists and engineers from gov­the first International Union of participants, with about half ernment agencies, industries Theoretical and Applied Me­from outside the U.S., will be and universities, on current re­chanics symposium at the Uni­held at the Center for search in unsteady flow phe­versity of Paris in 1976. It was Continuing Education. nomena in turbomachines and initiated by the Office National In addition to the lectures, turbopropellers." d'Etudes et de Recherches the conference attendees will be 
According to Atassi, this is Aerospatiales ..in response to entertained with various cul­the first time the symposium is the growing interest in un­tural and artistic activities, such to be held in the United States, steady flow phenomena of ro­as a performance by the ND since its inception in Paris in tating structures." Jazz Band and an organ recital 
The first five symposia were at Sacred Heart Church. 
The Observer/file photo 

Passing the time 
Cavanaugh residents play poker in an effort to avoid the pile of stacked books during the first two weeks. 

Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be on campus on the following dates: 
Wednesday, September 11th Thursday, September 26th 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune SOO company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 30 consecutive years. The company conducts operations in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis. Indiana. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain business and scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment that utilizes the technologies of IBM, DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray 
Take advantage of the opportunity to discuss your future in the informatiOn systems field. 
Lilly representatives will return to campus to conduct interviews on Wednesday November 6th. 

,' I I GloiMI 

lnfolnMfion S)rtems 
~ 
) 1 
I . 



page4 The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991 


U.S. tries to figure out role of new Soviet Union in Middle East peace process 


Soviet 
continued from page 1 
urday that two people were 
killed in ethnic violence. 
South Ossetia, a mostly Mus­lim region of more than 200,000 people, has accused the Georgian majority, most of whom are Orthodox Christians, of discrimination. 
Georgia has been pressing for the Soviet Union and foreign governments to grant it the same diplomatic recognition of independence given the Baltic states last week, but thus far has failed to convince. 
A U.S. congressional delega­tion left the republic Sunday after talks with President Zviad Gamsakhurdia, a strong Geor­gian nationalist, and said the United States should withhold the support Gamsakhurdia is seeking. 
"I was frank with him," said Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz. 'You're not going to get it un­less you clean up your act."' 
DeConcini said he felt Wash­ington would first demand a commitment to democracy and evidence of religious and press freedoms in Georgia, where an opposition movement has un­successfully demanded access to television to air its views. 
In Baku, the Popular Front of Azerbaijan said the presidential election had been tainted by voting irregularities. It said that election observers were not allowed in some polling stations and that officials handed out multiple ballots to some people so they could vote on behalf of their families, Turan reported. 
Such elections were a hall­mark of Soviet politics before 

The Castle & Co. Is Your 
NEW WOLF TANNING CENTER SUITElA 
FEATURING: 

0 New Wolf Tanning Beds 0 Facial Tanners 
"* 

0 Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 0 Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge. 272-0312 

The Castle 

Sl Rd. 23 • Ironwood Oosed Monday Plenty of parking 
President Mikhail Gorbachev took power in 1985, but have diminished under his demo­cratic reforms. 
Scarce goods such as sugar, 
sausage, candy and cookies 
were put on sale at polling 
places to attract voters, the 
Popular Front alleged. 
The election commission es­
timated 83.7 percent of eligible 
voters, or 3.24 million people, 
cast ballots. 
Mutalibov, 53, is an 
economist and technocrat who 
rose through the Communist 
Party ranks to head the repub­
lic. 
Following the failed coup,
Mutalibov quit as Communist Party leader in the republic and seized party properties. Azer­baijan also joined other re­publics in declaring indepen­dence from the Kremlin. 
Vagif Samedoglu, an opposi­tion leader, told the anti-elec­tion rally that the Kremlin sup­ports Mutalibov because he is not demanding complete inde­pendence for the predominantly Muslim republic, Turan reported. 

The republic of 7 million is engaged in an ethnic conflict with the mainly Christian neighboring republic of Arme­nia. The dispute centers on Nagorno-Karabakh, a mainly Armenian enclave inside Azer­baijani borders. 
In Stepanakert, the principal city of Nagorno-Karabakh, only the Azerbaijani population voted, Tass reported. 
Tass said six people had been reported killed and four seri­ously wounded in violence Sat­urday between Azerbaijanis and Armenians in Nagorno­Karabakh. Three of the victims were killed when a bus was at­tacked, the news agency said. 
In the Baltics, tens of thou­sands of people celebrated 
their  new  independence in  
rallies  in  Lithuania  and  
Estonia.  

A small convoy of Soviet vehi­cles left Lithuania's capital, Vilnius, for Russia, but Lithua­nian officials said they did not consider the move the begin­ning of a full withdrawal promised by the Red Army. 
Up to 50,000 people cele­brated independence at an out­door Mass in the town of Siluva, Lithuania. Later, in Vil­nius, President Vyta utus 
Landsbergis awarded the state's highest distinction-the Cross of Vecio -posthumously 
to people killed in January while resisting Soviet tanks taking over Lithuania's broadcasting tower. 
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were independent between World War I and World War II, but were forcibly annexed by Moscow in 1940. The Kremlin's new ruling State Council recog­nized their independence on Friday. 
"The 50 years of Communist slavery have ended!" declared Cardinal Vincentas Sladkedi­cius, the 70-year-old Roman Catholic primate of Lithuania. He said it was "the happiest day in my life." 
On the outskirts of Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, tens of thousands of people gathered in howling winds and rain to celebrate their new statehood by listening to choirs, rock bands and other performers. 
Study In 


London, England 

WHAT IF YOU  
DONIJGET  
INTO THE  
SCHOOL OF  
YOUR CHOICE?  
Sure, there are other  
schools. But why settle?  
Kaplan prep courses help  
students raiS€ their scores  
and their chancesof  
being admitted into their  
first-choice schools. Fact  
is. noone has helped  
students score higher!  
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED.  
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR  
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  
272•4135  

Emphasis in Uberal Arts, International Business, and Criminal Justice 
Mainstream classes with British students, plus specially designed courses just for American Students 
All courses approved by University of Wisconsin-Platteville and validated on an official UW-P transcript 
$4,200 pe~ semester for Wisconsin and Minnesota residents $4,550 per semester for non-residents 
Costs include Tuition and fees Hom&-stay accommodations with meals Fieldtrips 
All financial aid applies For further Information contact Study Abroad Programs 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 1 Unillel'8ity Plaza Platteville, Wisconsin 53818-3099 
(608) 342-1726 
WASHINGTON (AP) -When the Soviet Union was a commu­nist superpower, the United States largely resisted its efforts to play a role in the Mideast. 
Now, it is neither communist nor the superpower of yesteryear, and U.S. policymak­ers are eager to reaffirm Moscow's involvement in the region. 
But the unraveling of central authority in the Soviet Union raises questions about Moscow's influence among its Arab allies. 
"The entire formula for the (Arab-Israeli) peace conference was predicated on Soviet coop­eration," said John Steinbruner, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution. 
That cooperation may remain. But how much is it worth at a time of diminished Soviet influence among Arab coun­tries? That decline began well before the failed effort to topple Mikhail S. Gorbachev. It now is brought into sharper focus by the transformation of a major superpower into something less than that a loose confederation of sovereign re­publics. 
Who can say, for example, if all the republics will follow the same policy toward the Middle East? It is entirely possible that Moscow and the muslim re­publics will have differing sym­pathies in the region. 
For years, Moscow was the most powerful ally of the most militant Arab states. A steady outpouring of military equip­ment went from the Soviet Union to Syria and Iraq. 
That flow has ended. 
Such shipments are now "something the Soviets are nei­ther inclined to do or are even capable of doing," said Ray­mond Garthoff, a State De­

partment official in both the 
Nixon and Carter administra­
tions. 

, Yet, Soviet arms sales might 
well continue in some form. The 
Soviets -or individual re­
publics -are desperate for 
hard currency and one source 
would be arms sales, particu­
larly spare parts for the mass of 
equipment shipped during past 
years. 

Some analysts contend the 
long Soviet involvement as 
sponsor of the Arab cause in 
forums such as the United Na­
tions, gives Moscow residual in­
fluence with those countries. 
"They have had such a posi­·tion of prominence for so long," 
said Graham Fuller, a former 
CIA official now at the Rand 
Corp. "It has a powerful 
reinforcing quality." 

"Every country in the world is 
going to fmd it desirable to have 
Russia included in this," said 
Fuller. 

I 
! i 
t 
Monday, September 9, 1991 The Observer 
Golden domers The Observer/Garr Schwartz 
Cavanaugh residents show their school spirit for the opening football game by shaving their heads and then painting themselves gold. These students go for the authentic "domer" look Saturday afternoon. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two Democrats vowed Sunday to pin down Clarence Thomas on the issue of abortion rights when his confirmation hearings as President Bush's Supreme Court nominee begin this week. 
"I think Judge Thomas has a special responsibility to respond to us as to his position with respect to the issue of choice, a woman's right to choose," said Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D­Ohio. 
"I intend to inquire of him di­rectly," added Metzenbaum, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which opens con­firmation hearings on Tuesday. 
And committee chairman Joseph Biden, D-Del., said the question of whether Thomas would use his concept of a "natural law" beyond the Con­stitution to impose a moral code on Americans is "a critical question for the hearings." 
But Thomas' leading sup­

porter in Congress, Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., said the nom­inee shouldn't be pinned down on abortion, and dismissed suggestions that Thomas' past statements indicate anti-abor­tion leanings. 
"Clarence Thomas has never, ever taken a position one way or another on the abortion question," Danforth said in an appearance with Metzenbaum on the CBS program, "Face the Nation." 
"I think it is absolutely wrong if members of the Senate try to get a judge to promise how he would vote on a specific case before the Supreme Court as a condition of his confirmation," Danforth added. 
"That really compromises the independence of the judiciary, to say in effect, 'We'll vote for you if you tell us how you're going to vote ... ' " he said. 
President Bush, returning to the White House from Camp 
David on Sunday, said of his nominee, "He's doing very well." 
The reproductive choice issue is one Democrats see as a po­tential political bonus for their party, and the prospect that a more conservative court could soon overturn the landmark Roe vs. Wade abortion rights case has re-energized pro­choice forces. 
Biden raised the issue in an op-ed article published in Sun­day's Washington Post, in which he argued that the idea of "natural law" -a concept dating to the country's founders -must not be used to override the Constitution. 
Thomas, along with other adherents of the natural law philosophy, believes that people have inherent rights that may transcend the Constitution. 
Biden said he agrees with that concept, but said it traditionally has been used to protect the right of individuals to make 

~­
([\MPUSMINISTRY 

WELCOME TO NEW BEGINNINGS 
A Campus-Wide Ecumenical Christian Prayer Service 
Monday, September 9 7:30pm Sacred Heart Church 
This prayer service will bring together students, faculty, and staff 
from different Christian traditions in a common prayer expression. 
The service will consist ofbible readings, prayer, singing and witnessing. 
page 5 

Clinic owner says he's against late abortions 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) -Anti­abortion protests this summer have target~d a clinic that per­forms third trimester abortions, but the clinic's owner says he opposes most such abortions and has asked lawmakers to restrict them. 
And he accuses the protesters of wanting a male-dominated society. 
In an interview published in Sunday's editions of The Wi­chita Eagle, Dr. George Tiller said he supports banning third­trimester abortions except when the woman's health is in danger or in cases of severe fe­tal abnormalities. 
He said he made his recom­mendation to medical groups and politicians, "and I was ig­nored." 
His clinic, Women's Health Care Services, is one of seven clinics in the nation where third-trimester abortions are performed, he said. 
their own moral choices and not to permit judges to impose a strict moral code on all Americans. 
Quoting a Thomas statement that "human nature provides the key to how men ought to live their lives," Biden said that suggests "that natural law dic­tates morality to us, instead of leaving matters to individual choice." 
Despite that contentious issue, White House chief of staff John Sununu predicted Sunday that Thomas will be confirmed by the Senate. 
"Things can come out in a hearing, there may be difficulty in the hearing by the nominee and so on," Sununu said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
"But we are comfortable go­ing into this hearing that the confirmation process will go forward smoothly and that Clarence will be confirmed," Sununu said. 

--, 
But Tiller said he was tired of 
claims that he performs elective 
abortions up to the point of 
birth. 
"I don't do everybody that 
comes through the door, and we 
don't do people who don't want 
an abortion," he said. "We have 
done lots of adoptions. 
More than 2,600 arrests dur­
ing demonstrations by the na­
tional anti-abortion group Op­
eration Rescue. 
Late-term abortions are per­
formed only on fetuses that are 
severely deformed or missing 
vital organs, Tiller said. 
"Nature makes mistakes," he 
said. 
Tiller ignores criticism from 
Operation Rescue founder Ran­
dall Terry, who has called Tiller 
a ..human hyena" and "Tiller 
the killer." 
Terry and other abortion 
protesters are trying to create a 
male-dominated society, Tiller 
said. 
N.Y. ferry terminal damaged in Sunday fire 
NEW YORK (AP)-Fire boats 
led the attack Sunday on a 
blaze that severely damaged 
the Manhattan terminal of the 
Staten Island ferry, the cheap­
est commuter trip in town and 
a popular tourist attraction. 
A few Sunday morning pas­
sengers fled the flame-engulfed 
terminal and two required 
treatment for smoke inhalation, 
butmost of the 13 reported 
injuries were suffered by police 
making sure all got out safely. 
About 200 firefighters and 
two fireboats battled stubborn 
flames centered in the space 
between the terminal's roof and 
ceiling for nearly four hours. 
Eighty rtrefighters were decon­
taminated after exposure to 
burning asbestos, and later re­
turned to duty. 
Two fire boats helped fire­
fighters surround the blaze. 
One was equipped to blast the 
building with a stream power­
ful enough to punch holes 
through its sheet metal exterior 
and get water onto the fire. 
Damage to the building built 
in the early 1950s included a 
caved-in ceiling and buckling 
walls. 
Ferry passengers and con­
cession stand workers ran from 
the terminal when flames 
broke through the waiting 
room ceiling, causing a partial 
collapse. 
Fire Commissioner Carlos 
Rivera said arson was sus­
pected. Homeless people are 
known to frequent the 
terminal, but Rivera said he 
didn't know whether they were 
responsible. 

Ferry service across New York Harbor to the borough of Staten Island continued, with arrivals and departures di­verted to an adjacent Coast I Guard slip. 
About 70,000 commuters use 

i the Staten Island ferry on week days. Asked about the Monday commute, Staten Island Bor­ough President Guy Molinari said: "The situation is going to be chaotic." 
The distinctive, colorful ferry boats also are popular tourist attractions, offering a round­trip across the harbor for 50 cents. The boats provides views of the New York skyline, Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. 

page 6 The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991 
Democrats invited to see cities 
BOSTON (AP) -Mayor Ray­mond Flynn, head of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, has in­vited likely presidential candi­dates to address a forum on urban issues but wants them first to visit a homeless shelter or drug clinic. 
"I want them to look right into the face of poverty and need in America," said Flynn, who proposed Sunday that each candidate tour a shelter, soup kitchen, job training site or drug rehabilitation center be­fore speaking to the mayors. 
"I think people will respond to the problems of the country if they actually see them," he said. 
In a second letter to the na­tion's mayors, Flynn said he would invite President Bush to speak at the January confer­ence in Washington. 
Flynn, who wants to use the national post to force presiden­tial candidates to focus on ur­ban problems, already has asked Bush to attend a domes­tic summit with mayors. Bush has not replied. 
"At some point in time, the president will have to respond to the concerns of the people of America in moving forward with a domestic agenda," the mayor said in an interview Sunday. "He can't keep ignor­ing it." 
"Voter participation dropped considerably in 1988 due to the fact that neither major candi­date for president had a mean­ingful agenda for city resi­dents," Flynn wrote in his letter to potential candidates. 
Flynn won the national post in June. 
A spokeswoman for former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas said it was likely he would participate in the may­ors' meeting. 
The Democratic presidential candidate "has witnessed the economic decline of his home city," said Peggy Connolly, re­ferring to the city of Lowell. "He feels compelled to attack those problems throughout the country." 
Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin dis­
closed this weekend that he will 
run for the Democratic nomi­
nation and has an announce­
ment set for next weekend. 


AMMAN, Jordan (AP) ­
Crown Prince Hassan said Sun­
day that a Middle East peace 
conference scheduled for next 
month could be delayed by the 
unresolved issue of Palestinian 
representation. 

"Obviously there is talk today of the possibility of delaying the conference ... related to specula­tion over the important partici­pation of Palestinians," Hassan said in an interview with The Associated press. 
"If there is no Palestinian participation, would it be plau­sible, would it be credible to hold a peace conference in Oc­tober?" he asked. 
President Bush said last week that turmoil in the Soviet Union could delay the convening of the Arab-Israeli peace conference, which is to be sponsored by Washington and Moscow. 
But Egyptian and Israeli leaders have said that it should be held on time. 
Hassan, younger brother of King Hussein and heir to the throne, said Palestinians were 
Junior Chris Rice prepares steaks for the Knights of Columbus Steak 
serious about participating in 
Sales outside the Knights of Columbus Saturday morning. 
the peace process. But they 
LA\rr® ~©liD rriiDl!®rr®~fr®©l il.IID 
Jordan prince questions status of peace conference 
have not yet announced their form of participation. 
The 451-member Palestine National Council, a Palestinian parliament-in-exile, is to meet later this month in Algeria, and a decision on Palestinian partic­ipation is expected. 
King Hussein has said that he was willing to form a joint del­egation of Palestinian and Jor­danian officials to attend peace talks with Israel, if the Palestine Liberation Organization accepts such a formula. 
Hussein said that Jordanians will not speak on behalf of the Palestinians and that Palestini­ans will have to pick their own representatives. 
The United States favors the joint delegation, but prefers the participation of Palestinian representatives not connected with the PLO, which is consid­ered by most Arabs as the voice of the world's 5 million Pales­tinians. 
Israel refuses to deal with the PLO, which it claims is a terror­ist group. 
Hassan praised the efforts of Secretary of State James A. Baker Ill in arranging the con­ference. 

rr®\kl!JlrriiDrriiD@ \k@ ~@lillrr rrun®rru ~~rru©©ll \k@ i£®ll~ ®IQ)©l!Jli£ ff{[ID)~ 
Be a part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee and serve as a representative of the Admissions Office. New members need to attend one of the following training meetings: 
Monday, Sept. 9 at 7:00pm Tuesday, Sept. 10 at 7:00 pm Wednesday, Sept. 11 at 8:30 pm 
Returning members need only stop by during one of the above listed sessions to receive new information. 


Good throughout school year. If you buy any large sandwhich and 20 oz. drink, get a free large fry by showing your student ID. Not valid with any other coupons or discount. 

[ 
f 
~ 
! 
Thursday, September 12 "Chicago's Finest" Irish Rock Live! 
The 
"Chicago's answer to 


rovers
The Pogues" 
-Chicago Tribune 


Theodore's -LaFortune Student Center -Tix $5 Advance/$6 Door 

·~ 
-, 

FALL BREAK OPPORTUNITIES 
ONE-CREDIT EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING SEMINARS 
OCTOBER 20-25, 1991 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
FOR INF()RMATION, CALL: 283-5293, OR ST(JP BY THE CENTER FOR AN APPLICATH>N 

APPA LA ~,Cfl Jp\ f'f SEMINAR 

WOMEN, CHURCH AND SOCIETY SEMINAR 
~J J.\;§)JIJilNGT((})W 
§IEMITNA!Fi 
Chicago -Cu{tura{ 
Movent en ts Toward Democracy in the Sor,iet U7l io11 and Eastern Europe: A New World Order?
riJiversity Seminar 

Monday, September9,1991 


Football season's greetings Tim Sullivan 
Lou Ho~z greets the Leprechaun at Friday night's pep rally. The pep rally brought thousands of spectators including alumni , students as well as many subway Notre Dame supporters. 
The Observer page 7 
Macedonia likely to secede, violence flares in Yugoslavia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) if Croatia and Slovenia succeed Defen~e Ministry said. The air 
-Macedonians voted in large in leaving the federation force said its planes were shot 
numbers Sunday and all entirely, tlwir republic would be at first. 
indications were that the poor absorbed by neighboring In Macedonia, lines formed at 
southern region would become Serbia, the largest. Yugoslav polling stations in villages 
the third of the six Yugoslav republic. across the republc after polls 
republics to choose Macedonians also fear that opened at 7 a.m. for 12 hours of 
independence. neighboring Greece and voting. 
Fighting flared anew in Bulgaria could raise claims to 
Croatia, after a one-day lull Macedonian territory. Both The vote will be valid only if 
during which the 12-nation countries have sizable ethnic 51 percent of the republic's 1.4 
European Community opened a Macedonian minorities. million voters cast ballots. Of 
peace conference in the In Croatia on Sunday, heavy those voting, a 51 percent 
Netherlands, attended by the fighting was reported around majority is needed for a 
leaders of Yugoslavia's federal the town of Pakrac in the mandate to work toward 
government and the heads of ethnically mixed Slavonia independence. 
the six republics. region. The clashes ended a lull A poll published Sunday in 
Macedonian radio estimated that followed an agreement by the daily newspaper Nova turnout at about 70 percent of leaders of Serb rebels to join Makedonija in Macedonia's the republic's 1.4 million voters the army and Croats in capital, Skopje, said 85 percent and quoted an election observing a cease-fire to allow of the electorate was in favor. commission as saying first negotiations to resolve the Macedonia's population of unofficial results indicated crisis. about 2 million is mostly overwhelming support for the Orthodox Christian. About 20 measure. The Tanjug news agency percent are ethnic Albanians, 
The ballot asks voters quoted police sources as saying who are mainly Muslims. whether the republic should there were "dead, wounded and declare independence, with an captured" in the area, about 70 Serb militants in Croatia have option to rejoin a looser miles southeast of Zagreb, been fighting Croatian security Yugoslav alliance of sovereign Croatia's capital. The report forces for weeks and reportedly states. Polls before the vote said gave no details, and the control about a quarter of the Macedonians strongly favored Croatian Defense Ministry said republic's territory, mainly the proposal. it had no casualty figures. areas with large numbers of 
Although official results were Fighting continued around Serbs. The federal army also not expected before Tuesday, Okucani, 70 miles east of has fought the Croats, but it Macedonians began planning Zagreb near a strategic stretch denies Croatia's charges that fireworks and celebration, the of the Belgrade-Zagreb the Serb-dominated military is Yugoslav news agency Tanjug highway, Tanjug and Croatian siding with the rebels. reported. authorities said. The battle has More than 300 people have 
Macedonia, the poorest area closed the road, Europe's main died in the fighting in Croatia. A of Yugoslavia, would be the link with Turkey and the Middle cease-frre has held in Slovenia, third republic to seek to leave East, since Wednesday. which is ethnically the fragmenting federation. Heavy fighting also was homogeneous, since the early Slovenia and Croatia, the two reported in the town of Sunja days of the secession crisis. wealthiest republics, declared southeast of Zagreb. Many of Croatia's 600,000 independence June 25, setting The federal air force fired on Serbs -12 percent of its 4.75 off fighting with ethnic Serbs an airfield in the Croatian million people -fear they and the army. stronghold of Osijek, 140 miles would be ill-treated in an 
Macedonia's leaders fear that east of Zagreb, the Croatian inde endent Croatia. 
__________________________________________________. 
page 8 The Observer Monday, September 9,1991 

j 
i 
' 
i­
~ t 
i;
,, 
A setting summer 

The Observer/file photo North Quad students soak in the warm weather before the cooler temoeratures of autumn set in. It is only in the month or so at the beginning and end of the academic year wher. the campus looks alive, and is not suffocated with the gloom of lake-effect precipitation. 
Kissinger meets with Chinese 
BEIJING (AP) -Former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger led an 18-member delegation to China that met with Chinese Premier Li Peng on Sunday. Kissinger said his visit was aimed at pressing for improved U.S.-Chinese relations. 
"In spite of the difficulties now between us, I believe that with concerted efforts on both sides those difficulties can be overcome," Li said at a photo session before their closed-door talks. 
Bilateral relations have been severely strained since China's hard-line leaders ordered the soldiers to shoot down pro­democracy protestors in 1989. 
Although other countries are moving to end Beijing's interna­tional isolation, relations with the United States remain strained over China's human rights violations, arms sales and trade practices. 
Kissinger, who has argued that isolating China is detri­mental to China and the rest of the world, appeared to be using his good offices with the Chi­nese to explore ways to end the disputes. 
"All the members of my dele­gation attach great importance to the relationship between China and the United States," said Kissinger. He is considered an "old friend" in China be­cause of his secret visit in 1971 that set the stage for the re­sumption of Sino-U.S. relations after a 23-year rift. 
His group includes Leonard 
Woodcock and Arthur Hummel 
Jr., the first U.S. ambassadors 
to China after normalization. 
They arrived in Beijing on Fri­
day for a four-day private visit. 
The group was to meet on 
Monday with President Yang 
Shangkun and Communist 
Party chief Jiang Zemin and to 
visit Shanghai on Tuesday. 
\ AMERICAN 
C2CANCER 
~SOCIElY® 




Business 
Monday, September 9, 1991 page9 
Canadians save money by 
Cadillac--­
120,344 Lincoln---­110,939 
shopping in New England 
Nissan---­
Buick-----· 

HIGHGATE SPRINGS, Vt. (AP) newspaper Good Neighbors, states like Vermont, Maine and -Point me to the mall. which introduces Quebec New Hampshire, but merchants 
Volvo---~-44,707 
U.S. SALES 

That's what an increasing shoppers to Vermont goods. say they're seeing more Cana­
Acura-----42,698 

number of Canadians are ask­dians this year. 
FOR 1991 BY 
Chrysler---41,210 

ing Johanne LaBounty, who Gasoline prices are signifi­"It's definitely picked up in
COMPANY Oldsmobile -39,678 
tends Vermont's Welcome Cen­cantly lower, too. "You've got the past few months,, said Amy ter on the United States-Canada six cars lined up in a row, and Baker, director of marketing at
Lexus------34,848 

border. they are just going to Swanton the Burlington Square Mall,
Mercedes---33,1n 

to get gas because it's about which includes mostly clothing 
BMW---~--28,798 

"There's a lot more half the price," said Robert Cyr, stores. "The perception that we
(shoppers). A lot of them are 
looking for particular places, a U.S. Customs agent at High­hear from them is they feel they gate Springs. "They just go to can get (clothing) in the U.S. for 
lnfiniti------21,030 
SAAB---.---16,010 

furniture stores, motels,"
LaBounty said, after pointing the first exit on the Interstate 50 percent less." 
Mitsubishi--.14,171 

out Burlington's malls to a (89), nu up, tum around and go 
Mazd~---·-13,041 

Toronto couple. back home." Sharon Wellman, co-manager Higher taxes also are luring of Colonial Plaza Antiques in It's not just lower prices on more Canadians over the bor­Lebanon, N.H., also has seen 
Chevrolet--.10,705 
Toyota----88,064 

big-ticket items like electronics der to northern New England. A more Canadian groups in her
Audi------.7,002 

and furniture that draw Cana­controversial 7 percent general store recently.
Jaguar----15,175 ! 

dian shoppers, but also prices services tax was enacted earlier "A lot of our Canadian cus­
Porsche---12,853 

on everyday items. this year, plus Quebec levies a 7 tomers have been talking about percent provincial tax on goods their tax increase and have
Alta Romeo 12,364 

For instance, a 7.4-pound and services. been intrigued by our sales
Peugeot---12,257 

package of chicken that goes for taxes," Wellman said. "I don't 
Sterling ---11,878 

$5.31 in a U.S. grocery store Cross-border shopping is not think many of them are really 
Merkur----0 

can cost as much as $17.65 in a new phenomenon. Quebecers aware of the lack of sales tax in 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Canada, according to a price have long taken advantage of New Hampshire until they get 
Source:Ward'sAutomotiveRepons,Jacob'sAutomotive AP/Hea!herEatman comparison by the tabloid bargain shopping areas in here." 
Study reports on losses to government's deposit insurance fund 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Banks ance premiums paid by all "The other two bank regula­count the offset from what was it supervised few banks in regulated by a Treasury De­banks -failed and solvent -tors -the Federal Reserve in effect a "profit" to the in­Texas and the Southwest, which partment agency account for a and then subtracted them from Board and the Federal Deposit surance fund from the banks accounted for the majority of disproportionate share of losses the gross losses to come up with Insurance Corp. -... relied on under Fed supervision. bank failures in the 1980s. to the government's deposit net losses to the fund of $12.5 full-scope examinations in a Lee Cross, a spokeswoman for Cross also defended the insurance fund, according to a billion. majority of cases," Gonzalez the comptroller's office, said agency's policy of conducting congressional study released said in a statement. Gonzalez' use of net losses targeted exams for smaller Sunday. Banks supervised by the FDIC-supervised banks ac­skewed his results. Many of the banks. It conducts annual full­
comptroller's office~ which counted for 30 percent of the largest banks supervised by the scope exams for all banks with 
However, the agency criticized oversees nationally-chartered industry's assets and 35 percent comptroller rely on foreign de­$1 billion in assets or more and -the Office of the Comptroller banks, accounted for 73 percent of the insurance fund's net posits and other non-deposit has resident examiners at the of the Currency -immediately of the net losses, but only 54 losses. Federal Reserve Board­borrowing to finance their ac­handful of the nation's largest challenged the report as invalid. percent of the industry average supervised banks accounted for tivities and thus pay propor­banks, she said. 
The report, prepared by the assets of $3.27 trillion over the 16 percent of the assets and tionately lower insurance "Experience has shown it's a staff of the House Banking period, the study said. none of the net losses because premiums. better use of our resources to Committee, looked at the 1,009 Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D­they paid $1 billion more in target areas most likely to be of bank failures between Jan. 1, Texas, chairman of the com­premiums than the cost of their She pointed out that gross risk ... rather than spending 1986 and June 30 of this year. mittee, faulted Comptroller failures. losses to the insurance fund as time looking at what is unlikely 
It allocated the $24.9 billion Robert Clarke's policy of tar­a percentage of assets was vir­to be a problem,, she said. in losses caused by the failures geting bank examinations at The percentage of net losses tually identical between the Gonzalez and other among three regulatory agen­specific problems areas in a assigned to the comptroller and comptroller's office, 0.1484 Democrats have been particu­cies, depending on which was bank rather than conducting the FDIC by the committee percent, and the FDIC, 0.1485 larly critical of Clarke's failure the lead supervisor of the failed full-scale examinations as the mytholology adds to 108 per­percent. to prevent the $2.5 billion fail­banks. cause of the disproportionate cent because they were calcu­The Federal Reserve's ratio ure in January of Bank of New 
It then allocated the insur-losses. lated without taking into ac-was lower, 0.0177 percent, but England. 
'Humanitarian' shipments boost Cuban economy 
MIAMI (AP) -An increase in private "humanitarian" ship­ments to Cuba from exiles living in the United States and relaxed travel restrictions have brought Havana trade worth millions of dollars despite an economic embargo dating back to 1962, it was reported Sunday. 
Commercial activity between Cuba and the United States al­lowed by embargo exemptions has grown as the communist island nation struggles to get by on less and less economic aid from the Soviet Union, The Miami Herald reported. 
Havana is profiting from the sale of tickets for Cubans trav­eling abroad and "humanitarian" shipments of money, merchandise and medicine, the newspaper said. 
The United States enacted the embargo to choke off the supply of dollars that Cuba needs for essential imports. But it allows exiles to send up to $200 a month in merchandise to rela­tives in Cuba. They also can send up to $500 in currency ev­ery three months. 
Cuba, undergoing its harshest economic crisis ever, recently relaxed travel restrictions to travel abroad. Until last year, only older people were allowed to visit the United States. 

The exemptions have been in effect almost from the start of the embargo, but only in the last year has there been a no­ticeable increase in the amount of ticket sales and shipment of money and merchandise, the newspaper said. 
Revenue for the Cuban gov­ernment could reach at least $135 million by year's end ­$100 million from ticket sales and $35 million from shipments of money, merchandise and medicine, it said. 
Figures were based on calcu­lations by the Cuban American National Foundation and Anto­nio Jorge, a Cuba specialist at Florida International University. 
The foundation said it based its study on U.S. Treasury De­partment statistics. The Trea­sury Department declined the newspaper's requests for com­ment on the fmdings. 
The travel surge was slowed by a July 29 State Depa.rtment decision suspending the is­suance of visas to Cuban na­tionals planning to visit the United States. Officials cited a 
.. . ;(\ 
~\\'P 

·... . 
..~ 
. . .. ...... ~'\· .. o~G-. G-~ . 
y..O~ . 

•estimates by Touche-RosS. 
NUMBER OF BCCI DEPOSITORS: 
(where data available} 

Egypt  68,000  Abu Dhabi  35,000  
Pakistan  60,000  Hong Kong  40,000  
England**  53,000  Bangladesh  40,000  

..deposits in sterling, not foreign currencies 
Spain 

Jordan 7,000 
Cyprus 1,000 

Luxembourg 6,000 
"'"q, .111illiol1• G. . ·.. 
~ ·.~iJ····. '>~~o~• ~li4f4N-, 
~ .. ·.~~ ··~.A ~ .. ~ . . -'t')-~ ~ ~~··.. ~~ ~ ~. ~ ·~ 
Q.l, •.. ~ ~ 

· ~ Nots: Figures do not :S. · · add up to the •stimatBd · t, t million d6positors wiih $19.5 billiOn ;n d(iposits in BCCI branches alov&r tha world. Although incomplets, thess figures provid8 OM of ths most comprehllnsivs looks 10 data at OCCI's d8posits and dsposi/Ors worldwide. 
20,300 
Isle of Man 5,000 

allow citizens as young as 19 to backlog of 28,000 visa requests. Source: AP bureau reports, Touch•Ross, The Financial Times of London AP/Heather Eatman; ReSHrch: Rob WeDs 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, September 9, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busin... Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....•••.•••••••....•.•.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor••••.•••••..••••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •..•••••••••••.David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor•.••.•...•.•..•.... .John O'Brien SystMM Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as aCOJrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Abortion 'rescuers' save innocent humans from execution 
Dear Editor: the discretion of others, which The unborn child is the only Lambs of Christ in their rescue Charles H. Langston, son of a 
President Bush admonished is what our law does with human being excluded from in South Bend last Christmas. Rev-olutionary War soldier and the Wichita abortion rescuers, unborn children. entitlement to rescue efforts to The police and other authori­himself described as "part Ne­"my appeal would be, to those Every abortion kills an inno­prevent him from being killed. ties acted with professionalism gro," was convicted in a U.S. who demonstrate, please do it cent human being. Two decades The necessity defense, more­and restraint. The Lambs in­District Court in Ohio in 1859 so it doesn't inconvenience the ago the California Medical As­over, is not limited to the pro­cluded students, grandmothers, for violating federal law in his other person's life, and please sociation editorially observed tection or rescue of "persons." priests, retired military combat rescue of John Price, a fugitive do it so it is within the law." that a new ethic of killing is It applies to all human beings veterans and women who them­slave. 
(N.Y. Times, Aug. 17, 1991, taking over this nation: "Since as well as to animals and other selves have had abortions. p.A7). The President's concern the old ethic has not yet been property; necessary and rea­While they obstructed, non­In his speech before sentenc­to avoid "inconvenience" to "the fully displaced it has been nec­sonable force can be used to violently, their primary ing, Langston said (as reported other person's life" capsuliies essary to separate the idea of rescue a horse, but not, under weapons were prayer and in the trial record): "I will do all the unreality in American law abortion from the idea of our law, an unborn child. love-for the abortionist as well I can, for any man thus seized which causes the rescue phe..; killing, which continues to be The necessity defense ought as for the mother and her child. and held, though the inevitable nomenon. socially abhorrent. The result to apply to the abortion rescue They condemned no one. They penalty... hang over me! We all 
In every abortion rescue, has been a curious avoidance of situation, so that the rescuers came and departed in peace. I have a common humanity and three human beings are princi­the scientific fact, which every­would be held not even to vio­regard them as probably the you all would do that; your pally involved: the mother who one really knows, that human late the civil law. finest group of people that has manhood would require it; and is herself a victim of abortion, life begins at conception and is The Supreme Court, of ever visited South Bend. no matter what the laws might
t 
her unborn child and the continuous whether intra-or course, did not-and could be, you would honor yourself would-be rescuer. extra-uterine until death." not-change the reality that the The primary and most effec­for doing it, while your frien~s 
But, pursuant to Supreme (113 California Medicine (Sept. unborn child is a human being. tive on-site pro-life activity re­and your children to all Court decree, only two of them 1970), 67). The result is a schizophrenic mains the concededly legal generations would honor you are persons. In Roe v. Wade, the The rescuers are not conflict of entitlements: the prayer and sidewalk counseling for doing it, and every good and Court ruled that, whether or not protesters or demonstrators. mother is entitled, by Court effort. If someone were to ask honest man would say you have the unborn child is a human be­They are rescuers, acting to decree, to kill the nonperson in my recommendation, I would done right! (Great and ing, he is not a "person" under save innocent human beings her womb; other persons are urge participation in that effort, prolonged applause, in spite of the Fourteenth Amendment from execution_ entitled to rescue a human which saves lives and which can the efforts of the Court and which protects the rights of per­If you were walking down the being in danger, which the un­be continued every day, rather Marshal.)." (Finkelman, ed., sons to life and to the equal street and saw, through a living born child is. than rescues. Slavery, Race and the American protection of the law. room window, a man strangling But the rescue movement has Legal System, 1700-1872 
The ruling is the same in ef­a child, you would have a legal The abortion rescue move­dramatized the abortion reality [1988], vol. 4, pp. 11, 17-18 ). fect as a frank holding that an right to break down his door to ment draws strength from its as no other tactic has. Those It took a civil war to eradicate acknowledged human being is a intervene to save that child. You remarkably successful insis­who conclude that they are the depersonalization of human non-person. Such depersonal­would have the right to inflict tence on a tactic of non-violent, called to rescue deserve respect beings by slavery. We have legal ization ,was the principle that injury and perhaps even death passive obstruction. The ob­and admiration. means available to stop the le­underlay the Dred Scott case in on the perpetrator if necessary. struction, of course, is an act of They put themselves on the galized killing of 1.5 million which the Supreme Court held This necessity or justification force but the movement insists line, obstructively but nonvio­human beings every year. The that the free descendants of defense is generally recognized that participants avoid infliction lently, as a witness and sacri­rescuers can irritate and bother slaves could not be citizens and in state and federal court, but of personal injury or property fice. Their antecedents are the rest of us. But they remind said that slaves were property not in abortion cases. No appel­damage. those who maintained the Un­us of our duty to restore to our rather than persons. late court has upheld the neces­The violence, in Hartford, Los derground Railroad in violation law the principle that all human 
It is also the principle of the sity defense in an abortion res­Angeles, Pittsburgh and other of the Fugitive Slave Act of 179 3 beings are persons entitled to Nuremberg laws and other Nazi cue case. The necessity defense places has come from police and the fugitive slave provisions the right to life. measures against the Jews. The justifies intervention to save the who can usually count on media of the Compromise of 1850. No Charles E. Rice Nazi regime treated its targets life of a young child, a college disinterest in violence inflicted federal judge ever refused to Professor of Law as nonpersons and ultimately student or a doctor of philoso­on abortion rescuers. I had the enforce the fugitive slave law on Notre Dame Law School subjected them to execution at phy. privilege of representing the the ground that it was unjust. Sept. 5, 1991 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YeAH, I'M USING VI5A ... CAfiW NUMBel< 4764-31092. £XPIRATICW l¥17l3!5 JUtY 1992 ... ld14Tr... Ulrl, 7'HlfRe MU5T !?£ 5<Me M/5TAK& ... 
_.,._! 

H&Y, PAP! 01[) NICC YWCANal. CAU-,Yai.R VISA /Je.AR..CARIJ? 
\ 
IF!AeCAN JU5T STAYCJ'-1& 
~AHEAIJCF 
HIM, Jfle'U 88 AU. RIGHT. 
'-::;;iii<"~ 

'life is a single letter in the 
alphabet. It can be meaningless. Or it can be part of a great meaning.' 
The Jewish Theological Seminary 
Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 


"I
Accent 
Monday, September 9, 1991 page 11 
CAUSA unites for a free Cuba 
By RENE FERRAN participate in the Cuban re­the eastern shore of Cuba. Pope C.'l(T-.C.lf.'D.Accent Writer construction and reconciliation Benedict XV declared ----------­process as any of our coun­September 8 a feast day in 
On the feast day of Our Lady terparts on the island." 1916, and since then, Our Lady of Charity, the Cuban American The feast of Our Lady of Char­of Charity has become the Union of Student Advocates ity ( Virgen de Ia Caridad) stems patroness of Cuba, a symbol of (CAUSA) makes its case for a from a 17th-century storm Cuban faith and culture. free Cuba. which threatened the little CAUSA members gathered at 
island 90 miles ofT the coast of the log chapel last night to cele­
Three years ago Sunday, Florida. brate the feast day and to pray CAUSA was formed by a group for a free Cuba. Alberola real­of Cuban-American law stu­izes that this is a process which dents with the initial goal of ' ..As. sons and will require more than prayers. bringing together Cubans on the au~nters oi But the strength the Cuban 
I Notre Dame campus in a social eub~ns, we. have people demonstrated durt1g the I setting. But it quickly developed st as mucn rJJ!htlito recently completed Pan Am ; I into something more. articipate I:tr t e games in Havana provides
F

unan. recon­impetus for CAUSA to drive on. 
Under the direction of David struction as anv of "It was a source of great Link, a dean at the law school, uur .counterparts on pride," Alberola said. "It's a ',, the group began discussing the the Island. credit to the people that they events taking place in the were able to overcome short­world-and especially in the ages and repression and to Communist world-and how achieve such tremendous ac­they relate to Cuba. complishments."Three peasants gathered to­
"Our stated purpose is to Just like Our Lady of Charity, 
gether to pray for th~ir survival.
study the current situation in CAUSA has promoted Cuban
As they looked into the ocean,
Cuba," said Heriberto Lopez Al­culture in America, trying to


they saw a statue of the Blessed VIRGEN DE LA CAR/DAD
berola, one of the original heighten interest in a process
Virgin holding the baby Jesus in
founders of CAUSA. "We try to which has no imminent iEsperanza de tu pueblo!
her arms wash up on the shore. 
anticipate the role of Cuban timetable, but lots of hope. 
On the statue was a simple
exile in post-Castro Cuba. "We have to believe in the ul­
inscription: "I am the Lady of
"Detractors say that the exiles timate triumph of the masses fled the country and Fidel among the exile community in
Charity."
should have no say in what (over oppression)," said Al­Castro assumed control of coming up with a plan for re­
Once the storm had passed,
happens in Cuba. But as sons berola. "The masses must Cuba. construction of Cuba. This plan
the survivors built a shrine in
and daughters of Cubans, we gather the resources against all Castro was supported at first includes:
the city of El Cobre (named for by the United States, but as it •the establishment of a multi­
have just as much right to odds to confront their
the nearb co per mines) on 
oppressors. became increasingly evident party system that Castro had no intention of •freedom of association,
"The current 

fulfilling his promises of free speech and press situation in Cuba 
is ideological, elections, relations became •freedom of mobility, both political, and reli­strained. Diplomatic ties were external and internal gious apartheid. broken in the spring of 1961, •amnesty for political prison-
and Castro turned to the East ers
As we stand in 

opposition and in for support. •evolutionary process of re­structuring the political and
vehement disgust legal institutions (including a

about apartheid :we have to b.elieve 
(in South Africa), Ill. lfi~ u1timate new constitution) 
analogously we of the •a market-based economy 
triUffiPJl 
"Our generation, born in the
should stand masses. 
United States, has no fault for
Libt#•L opposed to the 
enpowering the currentsituation in 
Cuba." "Communism is just a pretext regime," Alberola said. "We 
The current propped up since that time as a will, however, be called upon to situation in Cuba means for repressing the pea­address problems we did not is the result of ple," claims Alberola. "Cuba's create, in a country we hardly events which took geography as an island helps know. place from 1959-perpetuate a defunct system." 1961. "Yet it is a vocation that com-
TheObservertSeanFarnan on January 1, CAUSA, with the support of pels us to respond to those call­
1959, the the Miami-based law firm of ings that demand of us our con-Yesterday, CAUSA members celebrated the feast of Our Lady of Charity at the Log presidenVdictator Valdes-Fauli, Cobb, Petrey, & tributions of time and talent. It Chaoel. Fuhmndo Ratista Bischoff, has become a leader is the challenge of a lifetime." 
Help! 'Discover' Workshops are throwing lifelines to academically sinking students 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG little too strong, but recently, servation, test taking, creativity, don't have to attend all four was designed to take some of Accent Writer Saint Mary's College has in­relationships, health, money, sessions. If schedule conflicts the difficulty out of being a troduced a set of workshops resources, and purpose. don't allow time for the work­college student, but Bentley 
Do you remember when Greg that can help students who shops, Bentley will also work stresses that it will also will Brady went to college? Yeah, want to improve their academic After answering a short series individually with students. Ap­take a lot of effort on the part of Greg from TV's seventies sitcom success. This program, run by of questions, students can easily pointments can be made to see the student. "I want students to "The Brady Bunch." Things Carol Bentley, is designed to determine their strengths and her in the Counseling and Ca­come away with a better idea of seemed pretty bright for Greg's improve study skills, reduce weaknesses. With study reer Development Center. what they want to do, and to freshman year until the show stress that might hinder aca­shortcomings known, students know how to do it," says was canceled later that year demic success, and generally can then sign up for workshops It isn't necessary to attend the Bentley, "Remem,ber, your and he nearly failed. Some say make it easier for incoming that will help them improve Discovery Session introductory college years are some of the it was due to the shock of "The freshman to become full­their weaknesses. For example, class, but it helps to pinpoint best years of your life." Brady Bunch" being pulled, but fledged college students. some students suddenly go weaknesses to get a better idea it was really because Greg blind when they are handed an of areas to improve and which 'ReJDember, 
your

couldn't manage his time. He exam. Then maybe test taking workshops to take. ·u makes 
college ...ve.ars bare
also didn't take tests or notes 'I want student~to is an area of weakness that can students feel more comfortable 
some or the. ~st 
very well, and was '"a walking orne a a It a easily be strengthened with a about going to the workshops," 
years or your ufe. 
time bomb of stress" according ~~tter Id'eaYo~ w at little help from Bentley and the said Bentley about the session, to his sister Jan. they want to tto, and workshops. '"It also helps me to get to know to, .know how to cto the students a little quicker... These problems and more are It. The workshop sessions will The Discovery Session will be 
Greg Brady's college intro­
dealt with every year at Saint run four times for two weeks offered on Monday, September Mary's, and not just by (Mondays and Wednesdays or 9 from 4:00 to 5:15 in LeMans duced a similar program his 
The Discovery Session is a sophomore year and with the
freshmen. It is now very easy Tuesdays and Thursdays), from boardroom, room 161 and on 
seventy-five minute program help of the workshops, Greg
to get a few tips, education and 4:30 to 5:30. Classes start Wednesday, September 11 from 
that allows students to rate either Monday, September 16 or 4:30 to 5:30 room 170 in soon learned to manage his
confidence to help pave the way 
themselves as students in time and pull up his grades. His
to "becoming a master Tuesday, September 17. Each LeMans. 
twelve different areas: moti­skills carried him through med
student." two-week workshop will be As George Carlin once said,
vation, planning (time manage­school and the rewards are
"Master student" may sound a covering different topics. "College does not need to be 
ment), memory, reading, ob-obvious.
After signing up, students this difficult." This program 
••••• ·-•• \ .. -, ••• ' ... ' #< 


The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991
page 12 

Hurricane spares Bermuda as another one approaches 
•j ' 
~ 
VCR, TV Rentals: ATTENTION: BANDS !!!! I need 2 Pitt GAs Have 2 Pitt GA's trade for MSU INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters Quality PA system 4-sale Please Call Mike at x1688 GA's. 717·757-1934. Good rates. Save Money. Call me
I ~-NOTICES 
only $99.95. VERY REASONABLE!! for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
I I 

13" color TV, two semesters only Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064 I need 4 Tenn. stud tix. Need Tenn. GA tix. Willing to 289·1993. Office near campus. 
$69.95. Will beat any price, trade a I of Pitt or Navy tix or pay. USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!!!!!!!! VCR, two semesters, $99.95. Never Opened! TRY ME!! Call Scott x1763. ATIENTION ROCKERS!!! 25% off list price For fast free delivery, call Sonic the Hedgehog for Sega Call: 259-6956 10-5:30 everyday COLLEGIATE RENTALS Genesis. Call & make offer ""NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA TIX"" The record you've been waiting for Pandora's Books corner of NO 272-5959. Bob 287-3587 HELP!! WILL PAY GOOD$$$ is finally here! ave& Howard Need 2 GA's for Mich. St.!! Call CALL BART 271-0759 CHISEL: "Swamp Fox/Spike" 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY TOYOTA COROLLA, 1984, Chris x2441 or Sarah x4830 ANYTIME and "Listen" Don't miss Chicago's favorite 219·291·7153 GOOD CONDITIONS, $700 The new 7-inch on Assembly Irish rockers ...THE DROVERS. ERNESTO -239-7735 OR 7736 NEED $$ I need 2 Michigan St. GA's Records. Live in concert. ..Thurs., HOUSE FOR RENT 2 Mich St. GA's Dan x1835 Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix 802 Napoleon;one block from x1655 Rory Available from John "E." Dugan and only $5.00 in advance at campus. Full kitchen & bath, TICKETS Help! Chris "Dude" Infante for $3.
I 

LaFortune Box Office. washer/dryer. Grad students Cali girl desperately needs My family has their plane Or call the Chisel Rokkline at 288­
l 
only. Rent negotiable. USC GA's!! MONEY IS NO tickets, now I need 3 GA's for 9334. Crazy about the Earth and Kids? Call 28~7114, after 7 pm. I NEED GA OR SID TIXS ALL OBJECT!! Can even arrange Michigan State! Our Kids for Saving Earth club, HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 dates with Trojan football Call Tamara at 4768. If you're too broke to afford the "Earth Crusaders," A quaint efficiency in lovely old players or cheerleaders. Call record, listen to Chisel on WVFI is looking for weekend camp mansion near N.D. 225/mo. plus Marge x2895 Need 2 MSU GAs & 6 Pitt GAs. Call AM640. counselors and guitar players. deposit call 2879624 Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff x4282. Tent camp or stay in heated lodges. x3301 NEEDED: 2 GAs for NAVY game Needed: crazy fun· Three and four bedroom homes for Call Eileen at x4965 NEEDPITITIX THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE loving, responsible male and rent. Walking distance to Notre Needed: 4 G.A.s for Mich. St. CALL Matt 11518 Lessons and informaUon 
female leaders. Give us a jingle! Dame. Call David at 277-7767 $$$NEEDED-PITI GA'S$$$ 288·4919 Contact Bill, 7pm-11pm at 272-232-5411 or 234-0379. Please help me out. Call D. J. NEED 4 Mich St. G.A.'s 4850. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE x1027 Rob x4352 ···cAMPUS BANos··· 
-
I FOR SALE
TYPING AVAILABLE $$$ SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN NEED Tennessee GA's badly for HAVE TENN. GA'S register this week w/SUB 287-4082 STATE TICKETS. $$$ folks Call Scottx3898 NEED MICH. ST. GA'S 2nd fi. LaFortune LIBBY X4868 OR 4870 NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS., 2· I would like to buy 2 GA'sI LOST/FOUND I NEED 4 USC GA's B­
1/2 BATHS, FINISHED BASEMENT, NEEDED! Mich.St. tix • 2 ga 1 stud. POOL & GAZEBO, SAUNA, LOTS Call Julie at x1342 x4231 Call Scott *2373 It looks like the original "very, very.. OF PRIVACY ON LARGE LOT, very bad girl" has done it again. 
Found: One large grey garment $129,900. CALL 272-4109. Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix NEED 4 USC GA'S • CALL PATII, Need Tenn. GAs for Desert That's alright, at least you didn't go bag. Scuffed, scratched, and for 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323. X4937 Storm Vets. Call Keith 2326 for a train ride. skanky but still intact! MacGregor Tour golf clubs, Contents include dresses, including bag, cart, and balls. I NEED 3 TIX FOR PITI GAME. i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why Needs GAs to all home games esp. shoes, jackets, and lacy sexy Excellent condition. $190. 233-X 1684 don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. 4 for USC, call271·9165 COMEDIANS NEEDED!! bras! Call 3270 or 3279 to 9094. Call me for a good time, 277-6885. Tryouts for Notre Dame comedy· identify. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP! Four Persian Gulf War Vets improv troupe Sept 16-6:30 pm­
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill missed last ND season coming for Basement of Walsh Hall. Bring 
T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T· Need I.U. and all other tickets NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA. Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven yourself and some creativity. LOST: set of keys on a carabiner in Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR 12201 ms-Call Tim and Doug at x2266. or around Cushing or O'Shag. last Game Day Promotions 291-6394. call Bill@ X1747 PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1· friday.Reward offered. Call Chris at 612·227-7577. To all the riders of the party van: x4010 if found. Computer: 10MHz $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn. GA's YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST!! 
XT,30megHD,5.25" fioppy,640K, fiat WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND Make my life call Dave 12201 Thanks for making my birthday 
mono monitor, 101 ext. keybrd,WP5, HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL awesome. Pair NIKE AIR Sneakers taken 123,1ike new, $490. Diamond eng. I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. I need 1 G .A. for little brother for the DOUG RULES!!! unintentionally from Rockne Sept. ring, .42kt round, pd $880 in '86, AND AWAY GAMES!! Michigan State Game. $$ 283--KJT 
1~~.,

4· PLEASE return to Rock· NO asking $650. Sofa,desk,chair, $5-NOTRE DAME QUESTIONS ASKED!! 30. Call 232·9952. CALL JOE TICKETS WANTED X1762 271·1371 Ang, Congratulations on your LOST:Watch·left in locker at 1990 EPSON EQUITY II+ tutoring job and immediate raise.
I PERSONALS I 
swimming test, & missing when I COMPUTER w/ 640K & 1.2 MB NOTRE DAME TICKETS You deserve it! We DO need to returned.lt has a black face and FLOPPY & 20MB HD, COLOR I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY FOR SALE. change our answering machine band, with gold trim. MONITOR & LQ-510 PRINTER. CALL 271·1371. I am the Lizard King and I can do message! Ha, ha! Call Bill at 2787,Carroll Hall. WP 5.0 IN HD. MUST SELL. CALL TOM anything. -Anna No questions asked, REWARD!! ASKING $1000. COMPUTER X1762 NEED M.ST. TIX 
I 
STANDS FOR BOTH $100. NEEDPITITIX You know, not just anybody works Baribabes bite the big one!!! MARK 272·5167 213-470-4419 at Taco Belli at 2 in the morning. Love and kisses,
WANTED NEEDMSUTIX Lv. Mssg. Male section members Guitar Lessons Angie x2172 Jacquie-We miss you! from ND teacher 
$350.00/ DAY Processing Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 I need 2 USC GAs call Brian at 277· $$$$ PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Help!!! 6894 Need GA's to all home games. YOU. NO EXPERIENCE FUTONS ETC. have extra Purdue tix. IIALL FORUM


NECESSARY. 1-800·255-0242 Best Prices! My parents are coming out to need 2 mich. st. and 1 Ind. tix. call Call Tom x1563 From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call celebrate my 21st birthday on x 2322-mike. 
Igor Grazin 

Fraternities, sororities, campus 1-800-484·1 060 Saturday the 21st. They need 2 Going to CLEVELAND this organizations, highly motivated When You Hear a Tone, Dial 1576 MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a WANTED weekend? I might like a ride, 
Member of the individuals· Travel WE SHIP golden birthday. 6 Michigan State GA's please. Pete x1791. 
Supreme Soviet of

FREE plus earn up to S3000+ A Vosidus Production 284·5105 selling SPRING BREAK trips to Call Julie at x1342 AUDITIONS! !I AUDITIONS!!! 
the U.S.S.R. 

Cancun• South Padre Island* Used Computers: NEED TICKETS? 289-7920. The London Program's 
Visiting Professor of Law 

Bahamas/Cruises• Acapulco: Mac Plus/2dd/pr "A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM" 1-800-258-9191 Apple llgs w/works I have $$$$$ for your Mich St Need Mich St. and USC GAs .. laptop 386 W/hd GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or call Phil at x2096 September 10 6:30-9:00 
SPEAKS ON Matt (x1778) or John (277-2176) 4208. September 11 6:30-9:00 
"THE TRUTH 
FOR RENT 

Need Tenn Tix in THEODORE'S
I I 

For Sale: New, Never used: Desk I seek 2 MSU GAs. Please help 3 stud 
ABOUT 

Lamp $12, Cube Aefrig. $85, fulfill a dream. Carol x4942. 2GA Any questions, time conflicts, 
THE COUP: 

2 BDRMS, S170IMO.• $200/MO. Record player $35. Ph 288-7182 Zeke 283-1786 Call Kris x1295 WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL eves. Need 2 GA's for Tennessee 
AN EYEWITNESS

287-2159. Will Pay: Bill 12157 TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS Native offers HAWAII FOR THANKSGNING! RANDY 80()..323-7687 Spanish classes 
REPORT" 

STIJOENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO Plane ticket for sale; Nov. 25-Dec. Bealriz , 272 9713 
Wednesday, September 11 

NO. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. 2; $430 value. Call Kathleen at Need 9 USC tix TRADE 2 TENN/2 Pm GA 
7:00P.M.

UtiWiies paid. Call 255-9664. x2985 Anything!! x2735 FOR 2 USC GA X4045 hey nif 
-.. ,. ••• -.............~ .. ·-·--· ~---·. ··40 •.•• -· ..............~ ..................... ' .. _ ......... " ........ :.-.. ._:::c..... .._. 
-
MIAMI (AP) -Hurricane reached 8 feet. position and strength from a 600 miles east of North storm Thursday and a hurri­Claudette weakened Sunday Claudette, whose maximum reconnaissance plane. It was Carolina. cane Friday with winds that and passed wide of Bermuda sustained winds dropped to 105 downgraded after Claudette Hurricane Claudette is the grew to 125 mph. 
mph, had been heading north­continued weakening and same caliber as last month's At 6 p.m. EDT, Tropical Storm 
after worries it might swing back toward the island resort. northwest but curved north­moved further away. Hurricane Bob, which insurers Danny was centered· about 930 
Meanwhile, the season's ward Sunday morning, the In Bermuda, Ferry, bus and tagged as the second-costliest in miles southwest of the Cape fourth tropical storm, Danny, National Hurricane Center in air service continued Sunday U.S. history. Verde Islands near Africa, began brewing in the area of Coral Gables said. afternoon, but a U.S. Navy air But Claudette is a more com­heading west at 17 mph with the eastern Atlantic that gener­At 9 p.m. EDT, the eye of the show and festival was canceled pact storm with storm-force maximum winds near 45 mph. 
ates the strongest hurricanes. hurricane was passing about and all the military aircraft that wind of at least 39 mph extend­Its coordinates were 10.8 Claudette was headed over 100 miles east of Bermuda, had been brought in for the ing 115 miles east and 85 miles north latitude, 37.5 west longi­cooler water, so forecasters moving at 12 mph. Showers and show was flown off the island. west of the center. Hurricane­tude. Many of the island's more force winds of 7 4 mph or Danny formed in the area of
expected a slow weakening. It gusty winds were reported on stronger extended 35 miles the Atlantic that usually gener­
wasn't expected to threaten the the island. than 65,000 residents waited in mainland United States, but in The hurricane's map coordi­their homes, almost all of which from the center, said Jack ates the strongest hurricanes, Bermuda small boats were ad­nates were 32.1 north latitude, are solidly brick-built. Beven, a meteorologist at the meteorologist Mark Zimmer vised to stay in port and resi­62.7 west longitude. In September 1987, a direct hurricane center. said. 
"It's moving west but it's adents were cautioned to stay A hurricane watch was up­hit from Hurricane Emily dev­
indoors. graded to a warning Sunday astated the island, causing mil­The system zipped from week away," he said. "It's really Tourists were warned to stay after the hurricane center re­lions of dollars in damage but loosely organized thunder­too far out to make any off the beaches, where seas ceived a report on the storm's no deaths. Bermuda is about storms Wednesday evening to a reference to the United States." 
The Observer accepts classifiadsevery business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame ollice, 314LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classHieds is 3p.rn AM classHieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
..----------~~----------------~----~----..----------~--.------------------.~~~----.-------------------~---------------­
Monday, September 9, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Possible treasure ship found sunken in Lake Erie 
CLEVELAND (AP) Salvagers say they can get to the wreckage of a ship that sank in Lake Erie with a treasure of gold coins more than 140 years ago, but they want the state of Ohio to make the recovery worth the effort. 
On April 27, 1850, the steamer Anthony Wayne left Toledo with about 30 passengers, heading east on a normal run with scheduled stops at Sandusky, Cleveland and Buffalo, N.Y. 
Shortly after midnight, about eight miles off Vermilion, the Wayne's starboard boiler exploded and shattered the hull. The Wayne sank in about 50 feet of water. Estimates of deaths range from 30 to 100. 
"They aren't sure how many people were on board," said Kellogg Vance, one of the ship's finders. "There was no passenger list. Crew members died. Nobody knew who they were." 
Vance, 41, and Matthew Roalofs, 36, neighbors in suburban Seven Hills, had run charter boats for divers and became interested in locating sunken ships. They formed a company, Sea Reach Corp., and in 1987 started searching for the Anthony Wayne. 
They located the wreckage, scattered across five miles of mud and sand, in 1988. 
But everything on the lake bottom off Ohio's shoreline is owned by the state. 
Vance and Roalofs would like to arrange a split with the state, which doesn't have a law that covers salvage rights but is working on one. 
"We're the first salvage claim that has ever been filed for Lake Erie" in Ohio's jurisdiction, Vance said. 
"We don't want to bring up the wreck," he said. "We want to bring up the cargo. That's all we want." 
Roalofs said the ship carried two strong boxes containing $101,600 in pre-1850 gold coins. He said the gold alone, disregarding the coins numismatic value, was worth more than $4 million. 
"Now we have' to think what the value of pre-1850 coins are," he said. "I think it's worth between $20 to $40 million." 
The state Department of Natural Resources is the protector of Lake Erie and its contents. Roalofs and Vance applied for a permit to salvage the Wayne, and the department asked the state attorney general's office for an opinion. 
"We got an opinion almost a year later," said Kathleen Dus, a lawyer representing Sea Reach. "It said there is no authority under Ohio law for tiie director of natural resources to issue a permit for the salvage of a shipwreck in Lake Erie. There's nothing, which left us with nothing." 
This year, the Ohio House of Representatives has adopted a bill dealing with salvage rights. That bill is now pending before a Senate committee. 
The bill would stop salvagers from retrieving anything without the state's knowledge, said Loralynn Kadell, legislative aid to the bill's drafter, state Rep. John Bara. She said the state was only interested in items of historical significance. 
Justice Thurgood Marshall: retiring, but not retired 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Can you name all the living retired Supreme Court justices? 
If you listed Thurgood Marshall, you're wrong. He's still "retiring" but has not yet retired. 
Marshall, the legendary civil rights lawyer who became the high court's only black justice in 1967, announced his inten­tion to retire in a June 27 letter to President Bush. 
The two-paragraph missive, made public shortly after the court began its three-month summer recess, · cited Marshall's advancing age -83 -and medical condition as "incompatible" with the stren­uous demands of the court's work. 
"I, therefore, retire as an as­sociate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States when my successor is qualified," Marshall told Bush. 
Clarence Thomas, the black federal judge Bush nominated July 1 to succeed Marshall, still must be confirmed "qualified" -by the Senate. The Senate Judiciary Committee opens confirmation hearings for Thomas on Tuesday. 
Marshall was released from the Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., Sunday after having a pacemaker implanted to correct an abnormally slow heart rate. 
While he and his tiny staff prepared this summer to move out of his chambers on the Supreme Court building's main 

Volunteers needed to assist at "Center for the Homeless" 
Any Thursday from 4 -6 pm 
Volunteer alone or with a group of friends! 
Call Brian Murphy or Jim Gordan at 289-6546 to volunteer of for more information. 
floor to a smaller suite of "retired justice" offices a floor above, Marshall also partici­pated in some official court work. 
Despite its summer recess, the court must handle certain emergency matters. Five times since July, it has turned down the last-minute requests of death row inmates seeking to postpone their executions. In each case, Marshall dissented. 
The only justice who opposes capital punishment in all cir­cumstances, Marshall voted to spare the lives of all five killers. 
"Justice Marshall is still a sit­ting justice of the Supreme Court of the United States," said court spokeswoman Toni House. "It's fair to say, how­ever, he's working toward re­tirement." 
Each of the court's nine members is entitled to hire four law clerks, but Marshall took on only one in July. By law, he is entitled to keep a law clerk, secretary and messenger on staff after his retirement. 
If the Senate should defeat 

Thomas' nomination, it is not inconceivable that Marshall would take the bench when the court begins its 1991-92 term Oct. 7. 
Ms. House, however, refused to speculate on what the justice might do if the full Senate had not yet voted on the nomination by Oct. 7. 
When he officially retires, Marshall will join Warren E. Burger, Lewis F. Powell and William J. Brennan as the only retired justices who are still living. 
Former Peruvian president will face a congressional panel about BCCI scandal 
LIMA, Peru (AP)-Former President Alan Garcia will face a congressional panel Monday to answer charges that while president he stole state funds using the Bank of Credit and Commerce International as a conduit. 
Meanwhile, the government Friday ordered that assets be seized from two former Central Bank officials accused of ac­cepting $3 million in bribes from BCCI. Former president Leone) Figueroa and general manager Hector Neyra were charged Thursday with accept­ing bribes to deposit $270 mil­lion of Peru's reserves at BCCI in 1986 and 1987. The where­abouts of the two men is not known. A panel headed by Congressman Fernando Olivera has charged that Garcia also benefitted illicitly from Peru's relationship with BCCI, building three houses in Lima with state funds and shifting $50 million from the Treasury into private accounts via BCCI. 
Garcia, a populist, aroused the ire of foreign banks in the mid­1980s when he declared a moratorium on payments of Peru's foreign d.ebt. He has claimed that Peru banked with BCCI because other banks 
Michigan Game Lottery Tickets 
When: .Monday, September 9 from 4-7 pm 
Where: Stepan Center 
Available to all Notre Dame Students Only 
Each student may present 2 student ID's for 2 Lottery Tickets. 
2so·winners may each purchase 2 tickets for $22 each on Tuesday, September 10 from 4-6 pm in Stepan Center. 
I 

Brought to you by the Student Onion Board. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

turned their backs on the coun­try, and has denied making any personal gain from the trans­actions. 
BCCI was shut down in July by regulators in the United States, Britain and other countries, amid allegations of pervasive fraud. 
The Chamber of Deputies voted Aug. 15 to lift Garcia's immunity so he can be tried in court. The Senate is to vote next month on whether to pass Garcia's case to the Supreme Court. 
Noting that most of the court was appointed during Garcia's government, many analysts doubt that he will be convicted. 
Garcia has denied all corrup­tion charges, saying his ene­mies are trying to destroy his political career. 
(i!Jj!JrJ. MEXICAN RESTAURANT 

I $1.00 oft Coupon 
(E-lto E-18 Dlnnerll Only)I 402 OW.way North, R.-lmd, IN <Aac.. &om Boot Jm> Ph. m-7173 Ho.s: Som: ll-9, M-Th 11-9:30L --.f!!:i:j&tll;!0:30_ ­
: Hours: Mon. -fTri. 8:00-5:30 : 
: Sat a:00-3:·oo : 
: MAPLE LANE : 
: BARBER SHOP: 
• 2112 South Bend Avenue • • South Bend, IN .a637 • 
• Appointments if Desired •
. : 
.................... 


page 14 The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991 


j 
' 
Devon McDonald puts pressure on Hoosier quarterback Trent Green. The senior linebacker had six tackles against Indiana. 




i 
i 
) 
Tony Brooks showed no lasting effects after rehabilitating his ankle throughout the summer, scoring a touchdown here and rushing for 61 yards total. 

The Observer I David lee 

Junior quarterback Rick Mirer scored his second rushing touchdown on a 6-yd. run late in the third quarter of Saturday's game. 
Monday, September 9, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Volleyball team wins one, loses one at the Big Four Classic in Louisville, Ky. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleyball team split its weekend series at the Big Four Executive Inn Classic in Louisville, Ky. 
The Irish fell to 22nd-ranked Kentucky in three games on Friday night, 15-7, 15-8, 15-3, before recovering to knock off host Louisville 5-15, 15-13, 15­4, 16-14. 
"I was pleased with the re­silience of the team after Friday's loss," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "To bounce back and win Saturday was really important for the team." 
The Irish may have ridden the wave of euphoria from their victory over Purdue six days ago too long against the Wildcats. Kentucky quickly took control of the match, and before Notre Dame had a chance to get into the flow, it was over. 
..·I told the team after the match that just as we may have celebrated our victory too long, we also couldn't let this loss 
carry  over  in to  the  next  
match," Brown said.  
The Irish had only a  .049  

hitting percentage against the Wildcats, committing 24 errors in the three games. 
"It was not a well-played match on our part," Brown said. "Kentucky made very few mistakes, and we never got into the match." 
And although the Cardinals rolled to an immediate one­game lead in Saturday's match, the Irish hung tough, wresting control from the host team in game two and never relinquish­ing the momentum. 
Junior co-captain Alicia Turner turned in an exceptional performance against Louisville. Forty percent of Notre Dame's points in the four games came off Turner's serve, and her string of nine straight in the third game-including three aces-gave the Irish a two­games-to-one lead in the match. 
Notre Dame also got a big lift from junior outside hitter Marilyn Cragin. Brown had dis­cussed before the weekend series how the team needed to involve Cragin more in the of­fense, and she delivered with 10 kills. 
In addition, junior Cynthia May and freshman Christy Peters provided boosts off the Irish bench down the stretch as they fought off a Cardinal rally in the fourth game to preserve the victory. 
"We improved in every aspect of our game on Saturday," Brown said. "I'm really proud of how we responded to adver­sity." 
Notre Dame is next in action Friday and Saturday at the Southwest Missouri State Invitational in Springfield, Mo. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 
•The 
Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m .. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of day,s the brief is t<? run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 

•Off 
Campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882 or 234-6976. 

•Due 
to scheduling conflicts the novice general meeting has been changed from Friday to Monday, September 9 at 7:00p.m. in room 118 Nieuwland Hall. 

•Men's 
and women's track and field: A meeting will be held for anyone interested in participating on Thursday September 12 at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 

•The 
Aikido Club will begin practice today at 219 Rockne. Beginners are welcome to attend. 

•Irish 
Insanity will meet at the men's soccer game Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. at Krause Stadium, behind the JACC. Call Mark Mueller at 283-2704 or Kristen Garvey at 283-4230 if you have any questions. We will meet outside the gate and go in as a group. 

•ND/SMC 
Salllng club: The first meeting of the year will be held on Monday, September 9 at 7:00 p.m. at the Boat House. Old and new members are welcome. Please bring your dues. For more information call Moira Sullivan at 284-5344. 

•Riding 
lessons are available to anyone interested through the ND/SMC Equestrian club. Call Jen at 283-1715 or Larisse at 289-7829. Lessons start this week. 


Holtz 
continued from page 20 
Smith's rumble for 2 5 yards with half the Hoosier defense on his back ranks with Pat Terrell's pass deflection against Miami in 1988 and Rocket Ismail's 94-yard sprint for a touchdown against the 1990 version of the 'Canes as one of the best individual efforts in Notre Dame Stadium in the last 



H'· Can't Believe It's Yogurt" is offering student d1scount cards good for 10°/o discount on all purc~ases. To get your card, stop by the store locat1on listed below 
1635 Edison Rd. * South Bend, Indiana 46637 * (219) 271-9540 (2 blocks east of N.D. stadium) 
Not good wtth any other coupon or promotion. At partteipattng stores only 
three seasons. 
But this Notre Dame squad is about team, unlike last year's team of play-makers. 
"An awful lot of guys touched the ball today and a lot of guys did well when they had it," said Mirer, who finished passing 11­17 for 209 yards with a touch­down and an interception. "We don't have one guy who's going to carry us-we have a bunch a guys that have to do their jobs. Today most everybody picked up the slack when they had to." 
A general Holtzism is to run on third and one. But down 10­7 early in the second quarter with third and one at the 46, Mirer hit Lake Dawson in the flat for an eight-yard gain. It wasn't the only offbeat play of the day. 
After Notre Dame scored to go ahead 21-17, Brian Ratigan recovered Craig Hentrich's on­side kick at the Indiana 41 yard-line. Tony Brooks scored only 23 seconds later to put the Irish ahead 28-17. 
"We had one new guy on the field and it came his way," said Indiana coach Bill Mallory. "It was a smart move on their part and we knew it might happen." 
Then on the last Notre Dame possession of the game, Holtz caught Indiana unprepared again. After taking a delay of game penalty on fourth down and one, Hentrich, lined up to punt, took the snap from center and lofted a toss to wide-open safety Greg Davis, who picked up 42 yards and a first down. 
While the defense admittedly must improve on consistency if the Irish are to win against Michigan, the offense only needs to continue its unpre­dictable style and keep turnovers to a minimum to beat the Wolverines-just ask Boston College, who squan­dered many opportunities to pull off a major upset of Michigan over the weekend. 
RECREATIONALS~~ 
UNIVERSIIT OF NOTRE DAME 

ENTER NOW! 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL 

-.

MEN'S IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC. SOCCER 
DEADLINE SEPT. 11 ENTER IN THE RecSports OFFICE, JACC 
CAMPUS GOLF 
DEADLINE SEPT. 25 ENTER AT THE GOLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
ENTERTAINERS! 
B 
The Coffeehouse at Grace A is looking for YOUI N 
Bands, singers, comedians, D dancers, etc. interested in performing shoulds contact Brian (x1628) A.S.A.P. •
' 
MUSICIANS! 


page 16 The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991 
de Cuellar to Iran to German-Polish university to open 
FRANKFURT AN DER ODER, border daily to attend classes ambition of the university
\ 
check on the hostages 
Germany (AP) With in Frankfurt an der Oder. planners seem stunning. 
optimism and vigor, a group of "This university is a real 
' 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Iran says it is trying to ar­
Poles and Germans are step in breaking all the The Oder River and the 
Secretary-General Javier Perez range their release, but thefounding a university on the hostility and bad attitudes of southern tributary Neisse de Cuellar goes to Iran this hostage holders are demandingOder-Neisse Line, once the our peoples," Glebocki said on River form the postwar border week in his quest to win the re­freedom for several hundredsymbol of intractable disputes Friday at a festive opening between Poland and Germany. 
lease of 11 Western hostages in Lebanese and Palestinians held
in divided Europe. reception for the infant Many West Germans refused The school doesn't yet have university. "It will bring to recognize it, for it meant ac­
Lebanon and hundreds of Arabs by Israel and its allies in south­students, faculty, a budget or a students together, and they are cepting loss of territory to 
held by Israel and its Lebanese ern Lebanon. The hostage hold­building. But the forceful new our investment in future Poland and the expulsion of 
allies. ers also want Israel to release a German rector of Europa relations." hundreds of thousands of 
He is scheduled to arrive senior Muslim cleric kidnapped University, Knut Ipsen, hopes Germans from their birth­
Tuesday night in Tehran for two by Israeli troops. for a rush opening in late Brandenburg's education places. 
days of talks with Iranian Israel insists it must be given1992. minister, Hinrich Enderlein, The Oder-Neisse Line was a 
President Hashemi Rafsanjani reliable information about
The founders hope the invited schools in "the former second-stringer to such Cold and other officials. seven Israeli servicemen miss­school in eastern Brandenburg Soviet Union" and other new War catch phrases as the Iron The hostage situation is ex­ing in southern Lebanon beforestate will draw 20,000 to democracies in Eastern Curtain and the Berlin Wall. 
pected to dominate the discus­it will release any Arabs. Only40,000 international students Europe to send students and Those two have disappeared, 
sions, but the civil war in one of the Israelis, air force
and help break down ideas to Europa University. but the Oder-Neisse Line be­Afghanistan and the aftermath navigator Ron Arad, is believedanimosity between Poland and "Here we are forming our came more permanent last of the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq War to be alive. 
the country that invaded it in contribution to the future of year when the Germans had to 
World War II. Europe," he said. accept the border as a 
also are on the agenda. The pro-Syrian Amal militia Polish Education Minister Centuries of conflict between condition of international 
Perez de Cuellar has declined in Lebanon said recently that Robert Glebocki has proposed Germans and Poles and recent support for German 
to disclose the specifics of his Arad had been sold by a rene­building dormitories on the attacks by young German neo­unification. But in the new 
hostage discussions with vari­gade member to Iran's Revolu­Polish side of the Oder River, Nazis on Poles and other for­Europe all one needs to cross 
ous parties, saying only that he tionary Guards and taken to so students could cross the eigners in Germany make the it is a passport. 
remains optimistic that freedom Iran. The Iranian government can be gained for all prisoners. denied the charge. 
But U.N. officials, who seldom A Kuwaiti newspaper re­invite reporters to cover the ported Saturday that Arad is secretary-general's trips, being held at a military camp
Morocco continues to maintain ceasefire 
offered to help expedite visas near the Iranian holy city of RABAT, Morocco (AP) -January in which voters will that most inhabitants of West­
for journalists wishing to travel Qom. Quoting unidentified Dozens of U.N. peacekeepers choose between independence ern Sahara favored indepen­
separately to Tehran to report sources in Iran, the daily Sawt deployed in the Western Sahara and Moroccan rule. dence, but Morocco has since 
on the visit. That prompted al-Kuwait said only five Iranian on Sunday and no breaches in settled tens of thousands of 
speculation U.N. officials were officials knew of the plan to the disputed territory's two­More than 200 U.N. soldiers colonists in the region. 
hopeful of a breakthrough. take Arad to Iran. day-old cease-fire were re­and civilians from at least 16 Morocco annexed the former 
All or most of the five Ameri­Perez de Cuellar has met with 
ported. countries have now deployed at Spanish Sahara in 1975 and cans, three Britons, two Ger­Israeli and Iranian diplomats in Morocco and the Polisario 10 posts in the disputed terri­has since waged a costly war mans and one Italian held an effort to resolve the issue. 
guerrilla front have battled for tory, which borders Algeria and against the Algeria-based hostage in Lebanon are thought The Iranians are expected to control of the desert region in Mauritania. Polisario Front. 
to be in the hands of pro-Ira­put more emphasis on fully im­sporadic warfare over the past U.N. officials plan to have as 
nian Shiite Muslims. The plementing the agreement that 
16 years. many as 1, 700 peacekeeping Algeria was long the Polis­
longest held is Terry Anderson, ended the Iran-Iraq war, in­troops in the territory within arlo's main backer but dropped 
chief Middle East correspon­cluding the assessment of war The cease-fire, which began at coming months. The estimated support in 1988 when it dent for The Associated Press. reparations. Iran and Iraq each dawn Friday, is the first step in cost is $180 million. reestablished diplomatic rela­He was kidnapped on March blames the other for starting a U.N. plan for a referendum in A U.N. team in 1975 reported tions with Morocco. 
16, 1985. the war. 

scorer and did a great job," Petrucelli said. 
Women 

However, it was not just Kurek, but the entire defensive
continued from page 20 

unit that played well. play. The only time she was Defensive midfielder, Margaret able to get by Kurek she was J arc made some attacks in 
called for being offsides. addition to covering back well. ..Andie did not give them an Jill Matesic also played well on inch. She was on their top '"D" and contributed an assist. 

is currently accepting applications for-the following paid position: 
Photo Editor 
A two-page personal statement and a resume should be submitted to. Kelley Tuthill at The Observer by Monday, Sept. 9, at 5 p.m. For further informati?n 
about this position, contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-7471 


• 
i, 

Monday, September 9, 1991 The Observer page 17 


FSU holds #1, Michigan is 2nd 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
Florida State retained its top spot in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll conducted Sunday evening. 
The Seminoles garnered 24 of 30 frrst-place votes and 742 to­tal points after defeating Tulane 38-11 on Saturday. Michigan, although struggling to defeat Boston College 35-13, maintained its second-place ranking. 
Penn State and Miami flip­flopped their slots in the poll. The Nittany Lions received four first-place votes after thrashing Cincinnati 81-0, while the idle Hurricanes dropped to fourth. Miami clashes with no. nine Houston on Thursday. 
Notre Dame remained in sev­enth behind Florida (59-21 vic­tors over San Jose State) and Washington (42-7 over Stanford). The Irish received 567 total points after their 49­27 drubbing of Indiana. Clemson, Houston and Tennessee rounded out the top 10. 

2 


4 

.\J 
5 


1 
....,. 

~ ­
. .

.,, ,._ ............
•' ~.

.... •' --':f!: ..... ~ ~.­
.,.2

1.-.,· (1) . ~Stce (24) '" vs. w..:om MiohO«n 
680
:z."' -r .. (2) "'lldliglln

s.-(-4) .. .-.mStatl ,., 660 
• ~ (3) 1 ,.. . 

·-·~ -IAIT1I 6311 
(1) . 620
5. (5) ...W•h'Von 

e. ·.;·,(6) ' Florida ... 601 
7. (7) Non Dame 667 I. (8) Clemaon (1) 526 
II. (9) Houston 
10. (11) T«v.e..ee OkJ.homa
"·" (10)
12. {13) Colorado 13. (16) Iowa 
14. (15) Georgia Tech 15. (18) Nebra.k.a 16. (17) Auburn 17. (19) Alabama 
11. (20) Mlchlgllll Stata 111. (22) UCLA 
20. (23) Ohio State 21. (12) Texaa 22. (21) TexaaA&M 23. (25) Syracuse 2-4. (14) usc 25. (NR) Piu.bul1lh 
50Q -4i2 
<459 
~1 
307 3t)3 
33-4 
269 240 210 
1QO 160 
14g 144 
113 
n 
6Q 
Sept. 
Sept. 14 VII.~ o.m. Se!X. 14 va. SOI.th«n Cal SeJ:(..,2 VS.. Houston 
. w 
~ 14 at N..brulo.a Sept. 1-4 n. AloDama ~-a at Wich9&n ~-2 I va. TefTl>le Sept. 12 Ill t.liami SejX. 1-4 wa. UCLA s.,..t. 1-' ...... North r ..... ~ 14 w. Ba)'la' ~-1-4 a! Iowa Stolle ~-1-4 Ill Botton Coloo­' ~-1-' vs. Cob'ado s..a. SOfA. 14 YS. t.liliM6Wi 
8.p. 1-4 we. Florida S~. 1-4 u. Centr~ lolich~ ~.14atT.,_ 
SeJ1_ 14 vs. Louia111le ~-1.t v.. Auburn S~ 14 va. LSU Sfl!X. 1" a! Mill )'land ~-14 at P..nn Stale SeJ11•h•. TerTfjle 

Others 1801iving vot•: lolinissippi !ltate 43, CA!lomia 27, G.urgi& V, Baylor 25, North Carolina 25, Bri~ham Youn11 23, Or~n 21, Virgini41 T.oh 11, loliuiuippl10, W...t Virginia 5. ~Carolina Stale -4, Colorado StU 3. lndlanA 3, M.uyland 3, Ail Force 2, llliuoia 1, LSU 
1. RutgeB 1. -~.,; ···.; · 
-. ..4. ,,, ,. 
. ._,.,, '• .. 

~Is ~ic;p;ding: AI~. Arizona. Arizona Su.l.e, Ball Stale, Brigham Young, Brown, C~ifornin, Colorado, Colurrbia. CorneH, Duke, Florida Stale, Harvard, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, lol'-mi, Michigan, North Carolina Stale, Notre Dame, 0"'{1011, Penn, Purdue, Syracuse, Texu. USC, Virginia. Wo.t Vitg1niol. W•conaln. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Women's golf team impressive in opener; preparing for Purdue lnvit. 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's women's golf team made an impressive showing at Michigan's Lady Wolverine Invitational at Ann Arbor on Saturday and Sunday. 
Hindered by youth, the team captured fourth-place in the 54-hole event with a 1031 total. Host Michigan easily defended its team title in the nine-team event with a 992 total, 15 shots in front of second-place Bowling Green. Purdue rounded out the top three, fm­ishing at 1008. 
Four of the six Irish partici­pants fmished in the top half of the field. Sophomore Chrissy Klein led the way, finishing in a tie for eighth with a 251 total, sparked by an opening-round 
78. Senior captain Allison Wojnas was equally impressive, completing Michigan's 5,972 yard layout with a 254 total, good enough to tie for tenth. Sophomore Alicia Murray carded a three-round total of 265 to finish tied for 20th, while classmate Denise Paulin finished 28th with a 268 total. 
Ferris State's Amy Summers captured the individual medal­ist honors after winning a one­hole playoff over Wendy Bigler of Michigan and Purdue's Carrie Kotoshirodo, all of whom finished the 54-hole event at 241. 
The busy fall schedule contin­ues next weekend for the Lady Irish. They will travel to Normal, Illinois to participate in the 1991 Illinois State Invitational. The 18-team event will showcase some of the best women's golf teams in the midwest. 
Bowling Green and Purdue, two teams who fmished ahead of the Irish in the Lady Wolverine Invitational, will be represented, along with Bradley, Michigan State and Missouri among many others. 
With so many teams partici­pating, next weekend's tour­nament will be a true barome­ter of the team's chances this season. The young team will have the opportunity to show­case their talents against some of the best players in the mid­west, which will help them gain confidence and experience. 


University of Wisconsin Platteville 
+ 


2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONESHOULDKNO~ 
For further growth potential and diversi­fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
you put more than just your savings into a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resources for fmding out how strong a fmancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER-PERFECT. 
TIAA received. A+ from A.M. Best Co., 


AAA from Standard & Poor's and Aaa ,-----------­
from Moody's Investors Service. These ratiJlss reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying I ability, exceptional financial strength, I superior investment pertormance, and low I expenses. With its guaranteed rate ofreturn I 
and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is one ofless than ten companies, out of 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it:-'' 
I I I I I I I I 

SEND NOW FORA FREE 
RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, 
including a Sp~n~d Rq~t~rt on TIAA investments. Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York. NY 10017. Or call 
I 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016. 
Nam~ (Please print) 
Cit.v 


ln.rltiulitm (Full name) 
Titlr IJ.r.vlrln~ pJ,,,,,. ( 
TIAA-CRF:F Participa111 l(va. S,o,·ial &mrit_v # 0~.• ONto 
CN 

Emphasis in Liberal Arts International Business 
Courses available in Spanish and in English 
Fluency in Spanish not required 

All courses approved by the University Wisconsin-Platteville and validated on an official UW-P transcript 
$3975 per semester for Wisconsin &: Minnesota residents $4225 per semester for non-residents 
Costs include Tuition and Fees Room and Board in Spanish homes Fieldtrips 
All financial aid applies 
.. 
For further information contact Study Abroad Programs 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 1 University Plaza 
Platteville, WI 53818-3099 (608) 342-1726 



•. r-I • • • o 1/l 
f 
page 18 The Observer Monday, September 9, 1991 
Defense views I.U. game as a learning experience 
I 
\\ By DAVE DIETEMAN AND DAVE MCMAHON Sports Writers 
Lou Holtz and the rest of the ~ Fighting Irish were happy to l leave Notre Dame Stadium with 
A 
l 
a win Saturday, but they were 
I \ 
not completely happy with their 
11 defensive performance. 
II "The defense overall as a unit 
I 
'I didn't play too well," observed I. 
linebacker Demetrius DuBose. 
I I "But it's a l~arning experience 
the first game of the year. Everbody wouldn't play at the 
I. 
J same time. There would be one 
~ 
,, guy one play and another guy on another play. We just r weren't consistent at all. 
., 
"Our defense didn't play as well as we're capable of. Over the course of the next few
f i weeks, everybody is going to
~ 
~ see a different NO football team."
l ' l 
\ \ "Twenty-seven points is a lot 
~ 
l against anybody," said strong 
,,. 
) safety Greg Davis. "We had 
l 
'• J \ Mirer 
continued from page 20 

l ll
' drive to put Notre Dame back up 14-10. 
Indiana, riding on the strength of Vaughn Dunbar, regained the lead 17-14 with 

9:57 left in the half, but Mirer scampered 46 yards for a touchdown, as the Irish went on top to stay, 21-17.
' In the Irish scoring drives, Bettis (11 rushes, 111 yards), Culver (12-77) and Tony Brooks 
ll 
!i 
f) 
\~ 
) 
~) ~{
"f 
{ 
.\ 
breakdowns every now and then." 
Overall, the Irish defense gave up 418 yards-197 on the ground and 221 in the air. Despite the high-sounding numbers, Holtz was not overly concerned. 
"I think that the secondary was playing back well, and we were reacting to the ball well," said Holtz. "But I didn't think that we were tackling well up front, and we didn't get much pressure on the passer." 
In the end, though, the out­look is bright for the Notre Dame defense. 
"Antime anyone scores 27 points, you can't be satisfied," said nose tackle Troy Ridgley. "It was good learning experi­ence for us. Everyone's got a job to do and if we don't do our jobs, things can happen. We've got a lot of work to do before next week, but we'll be fine-we'll get it done." 
(12-61) combined to punish the defensive front of Indiana. In the air, Tony Smith (2 catches, 43 yards), Ray Griggs (1-17), Derek Brown (1-9) and Lake Dawson (1-8) repeatedly frustrated the Hoosier secondary. 
"We're very glad to win our opening ballgame," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, sweat­ing before a jungle of micro­phones in his post-game press conference. "We committed one turnover, which I dido't like. But our defense generated some turnovers and scored 

Jerome Bettis 
Ridgley believes the personnel has what it takes for the Irish to be successful. 
"We don't have any super­stars. We just have a lot of people who want to go out and win football games, hit people hard, and try to make good sticks. That's going to make our defense more consistent down the road." 
For Ridgley, the Indiana game also had special meaning, as it was his first game since being sidelined-nearly perma­
some points, which is good. There were some things to build on. I couldn't evaluate this team right now, because we've still got to find out how we play on the road. 
"The players all played well, the receivers blocked well. But because of some unfortunate penalties, we couldn't put the game away. The secondary played well, but they got a little tired as the game went on." 
Holtz also seemed satisfied with the composure of Mirer and DuBose in light of their re­

}.·
)J. 
Man cannot live by football alone. 
.} 
Call Domino's Pizza~ 
··~ 

I'. 
NOTRE-DAME ST. MARY'S 
f
/. ' 
271-0300 289-0033
I . IIi 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave.
!. ', 
·r . 
'' 
·~ --·-·"--· __ .__,, ----­
nently-for academic troubles. 
"It felt unbelievable-it was like dying and going to heaven," confessed Ridgely. "I haven't felt that good in over a year and a half. The best thing was seeing my mom and dad when I came out of there. It means a lot to my mom and dad. It means a lot to my teammates-being around the guys I care about." 
Irv Smith feels he had a duty to his fellow tight ends-Derek Brown and Oscar McBride--<>f scoring any time he gets the chance. And it really doesn't matter how graceful his recep­tions are. 
"The three of us have a pact to try to get into the end zone anytime we touch the ball, which isn't too often" said Smith, the first current Notre Dame tight end to score a touchdown since Derek Brown did last year against Air Force. "Sometimes you like to have the ability to get outside and look like a wide receiver with speed. But to drag people like that has got to be the utmost." 

It was a play designed with four players going deep. (Rick) Mirer made a great read and I dido 't have to break stride when I caught it." 
The offensive line's perfor­mance was key to the success of fullback Jerome Bettis, who rushed for 111 yards on 11 carries. 
"I have to give ·the offensive line all the credit in the world because they deserve it so much," said Bettis. 
But he wasn't too satisfied with the offense in the opening stages of the game. 
"Early on we put the defense in situations that they didn't need to be in-we were going three plays and out. In this heat you really can't stand that for too long." 
cent excursions with the South Bend Police Department. 
''I'm very proud of DuBose and Mirer," admitted Holtz. "I thought that Mirer played well. It was a physical game, and I can't say enough good things about him, and Demetrius, too." 
Mirer's composure indeed did not seem to be lacking Saturday, as he fired the longest touchdown pass of his career-a 58-yard bullet to tight end Irv Smith-and not only ran for the longest touch­down of his career (46 yards) but also for the most rushing touchdowns in a single game of his career (three). On the day, Mirer was 11-17 for 209 yards, one touchdown and one inter­ception. . 

Holtz went on to credit assis­tant coach Peter Vaas for Mirer's record-breaking offen­sive performance. 
"Coach Vaas has done a tremendous job with the quar­terbacks," stated Holtz. "I've seen this day coming in presea­son practice and in two-a-days. Coach Vaas receives all the credit for this." 
Look Who's Got The Best Deals On Campus! 
STUDENT SPECIAL! 
LARGE $ 99
ONE TOPPING 

ADDITIONAL

PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS

$4 MORE! 
AVAILABLE 

LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE TWO SMALL 
$ 
99

PEPPERONI 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS

PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE 

OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer.'tklivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
... 
a a
-. 
< 

Monday, September 9,1991 
The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
1 P·f!'·. Film, "Our Hospitality." Annenberg Auditorium. AdmissiOn. 9 p.m. Film, "Sherlock, Jr." Annenbe~g Auditorium. Admission. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Pot Roast a Ia Mode Grilled Redfish Cheese Ravioli 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ACROSS 32 Areas cleared of 57 Hawk's home trees 59 Expectorant
1 What dictators 36 Algeria's -­ingredientdo 
Mountains 62 Salute anew a His discovery is 
39 Blockheads 63 School 
still current 
40 Describing 64 Some 14 Former certain income subatomic 15 A modern 42 Japanese prime particles 
science minister: 65 Improve the 17 A male falcon 1960-64 premises 43 City NNW of 
18 Net San Francisco 
19 Lincoln's 

DOWN
46 N.Y.C.

"Cap'n--" 
wagering 1 Picardy 

20Doneto­
system 

bloomers 49 Physics(just right) 2 Finnish lake, to 22 Styptic 
co-Nobelist: 

Swedes23 Indonesian cent 1909 3 Striped silk 24 China town 
50--Paul 

fabric26 Compass dir. Kruger 4Hwy.
27 Family of 53 Drudge 5 Healer at Victoria's Lord 55 Word Hamlet ValhallaBeaconsfield knew not 6 Pathologist's 29 Spanish tide 56---Magnon 
specimens 7 Gun dog s Md.'s-­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Proving Ground 9 "Gigi" director 

10 Battery term . 11 Castrogiovanni, 
today 12 Mashhad coins 13 Hosiery shades 16 Dotted; sown 21 Group to which 
SAC belongs 24 Tabular sketch 25--bonum 27 Cassatt's 
mentor 28 "... will -­ship" 29 Half a Kenyan group's name 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
!X)NT t·t~Nt:.,
ABEE?! 

f>.NO IT ~·T
Nrr..~.' 

sn~c; 'iDJ .
GET IT 
~WAY!! 
© 1986 Unn,erul Press Synd•cale 

-JU9 5\fl..N\) 51\U. P..N() iR'( ~T TCJ lW...G\N£ THP...T IT MIG\-\T ~WElL CRI\'tJL OOW~ ~()jQ. 5\-\\R\ ~ND \NiD 'K)UR PI\NTS! 
\ 
q.q Special commuter lanes 

., 
Everyday And 
Am.erican
someone we need 
you. Red Cross
needs us. 



30 Actor in "Kung Fu" 31 Charlotte from Milwaukee 
33 Never, in Neuss 
34 Scottish pike 
35 Legislation of 1935 
37 Goldwyn's 1933 import from Russia 
38 Religionists' sabbaticals 41 Small European fish 

44 Certain room for 
tots 45 Football kick 46 Caliph slain by 
a slave 47 Clan emblem 48 Cask's widest 
part 50 Hexad plus duad 
51 Hold forth 52 Black • 
nightshade 54--Porsena 58 Platonic 
preceder 60 Bible bk. 61 "The Name of 
the Rose" author 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


----~~,~~~--~~~~----~-.----~----~--~---------------------------------------------------.r----------~-----. 
Sports 
page 20 Monday, September 9, 1991 
\ ' 


, 

Women's soccer beats Mercyhurst, 2-0 
By MIKE SCRUDATO not put a shot past Lady Laker to our offense, and we just Sports Writer goalie, Andrea Colaurotolo, weren't getting the ball to her until Lester took a pass from in the first half." 
Alison Lester scored two Jodi Hartwig and lofted it just Petrucelli was also very goals and Andrea Kurek led a over Colaurotolo and just be­pleased with the play of the tenacious Irish defense to help neath the crossbar from 20 freshmen. They played an im­the Notre Dame women's soc­yards out with 23:21 left in the portant role in the win. cer team to a hard-fought 2-0 second half. ..Tiffany [Thompson] played victory over the Mercyhurst Lester added some very well, and Jodi [Hartwig] Lady Lakers, who were ranked insurance when she rifled a did a great job at a new posi­sixth in the ISAA Division II shot past Colaurotolo from tion. She created two goals," preseason poll. seven yards away at the 9:31 Petrucelli added. 
"I felt that we played very mark. The score was assisted The key to the Irish win was well, especially for early in the by Hartwig and Jill Matesic. defense. They limited season," Irish coach Chris Lester, who played middie in Mercyhurst to only five shots Petrucelli said. "I don't think the first half, sparked the on goal, none of which the game was as close as the offense when she moved to severely tested Irish goalie, score indicated. I felt that we forward after ihe intermission. Michelle Lodyga. Kurek dominated the game." "I should be fired for playing completely shut down 
The majority of the game Alison at middie in the first Mercyhurst's all-time leading was played on the Mercyhurst half because she is so scorer, Veronica Sansom, side of the field, and Notre dangerous up front," Coach despite Sansom's nggressive Dame outshot the Lady Lakers Petrucelli said of 1990's 15-5. However, the Irish could leading scorer. "She is the key 
see WOMEN I page 16 
Men's soccer defeats Michigan in scrimmage 
Special to the Observer "We're definitely a lot more 
upbeat compared to this time 
If Saturday's 3-0 win in a last year," said Pendergast.scrimmage game against "The defense is looking really Michigan is any indication, the strong and is a little more solid 
Notre Damf' men's soccer team than other positions."will be a defensive powerhouse during the upcoming season. The offense is at a different 
Notre Dame posted some im­stage, however. pressive offensive numbers as "The front four are still well, as the Irish took 23 shots looking for a rhythm, but I on goal. think that we're starting to get 
there. 

Wingback Kenyon Meyer put "We took a lot of shots on the Irish on the board with a goal-a lot more than goal off an assist from forward normal-but we're still trying Kevin Pendergast at the 18:00 to get used to each other's mark of the first half. game," said Pendergast. 
Tim Oates scored the first of The Irish have only a few 
two second half goals for the days to work on their offensive Irish on an assist from Mike performance, as the squad Palmer. Palmer scored the final hosts Loyola in the season Irish goal on a penalty kick. opener Tuesday night. 




