

VOL. XXIII NO. 93 THURSDAY FEBRUARY 14 1991 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
•

Blanco/Fiorenzo w1n 


RESULTS OF PRESIDENTIAL RUN-OFF ELECTIONS 
1900 1710 1520 1330 1140 950 760 570 380 190 


0 Blanco/Fiorenzo Farmer/Griggs Other 
Candidates 

The Observer/Matthew Caito 

and Dave. "Eric and I would they were against all odds, we like to thank everyone who were happy with all the support supported us." we had." 
We were excited that it was a close race," she continued. Blanco and Florenzo will take "For a ticket who was told that office on April 1, 1991. 
500 Iraqi civilians die in latest Allied raid 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) ­Rescuers and weeping families dug charred, mutilated bodies from a bomb shelter blasted by allied warplanes Wednesday in a pre-dawn strike. Authorities said the attack killed at least 500 civilians. 
If casualty figures from civil 


defense officials were accurate, 
OPERATION

it would be by far the highest civilian toll yet reported from DESERT STORM any single attack since the Persian Gulf War began four weeks ago. • Diplomacy tried I page 6 
The United States said the • Bush on casualties I page 6 targeted facility was a military • Blood drive I page 6 bunker used as a command and 
• Military Valentines I page 6 

control facility. In Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Marine Brig. Gen. 
Late Wednesday, Foreign

Richard Neal described it a 
Minister Tariq Aziz called on"legitimate military target" and the United Nations to condemnsaid he could not explain why what he called a deliberate at­

civilians might have been 
tack on civilians. Aziz' reportinside. 
said 400 died in the shelter

No evidence of any military 
bombing, but it wasn't clear

presence could be seen inside when his letter was sent.
the wreckage, and Iraqi author­"The Iraqi people hold all the ities denied that any military parties involved in these crimespersonnel had been using the -those who allowed them andfacility. 
those who committed them ­

A nursery school, a super­
fully responsible," Aziz said in amarket and a mosque surround 

message addressed to U.N.

the shelter. 
Secretary-General Javier PerezForeign journalists. including de Cuellar.

two reporters from The 
In London, Terry Gander, edi­Associated Press, were allowed 

tor of Jane's NBC Protectionto inspect the site and were Equipment annual, said the

told, for the first time during shelter might have been one ofthe war, that thev could file 20 to 25 shelters -many inter­their reports with-out censor­connected -containing mili­ship. 
tary command centers around

Abdul Razak Hassan al­
Iraq.

Janaby, a superviser of the fa­"The idea is that they are in­cility, said 235 bodies had been tended to be military shelters,
recovered and at least 300 
but the upper area is let out to

more were believed to be 
the locals. Downstairs is wheretrapped in the wreckage. Most all the nasties are." he saidof the recovered bodies were "There is evidence to show

charred and mutilated beyond recognition. Some clearly were see IRAQ I page 4 children. 
The Obser.lerA:.izabeth Peterson 

David Florenzo, vice president-elect (left) and Joseph Blanco, presi­dent-elect, defeated the ticket of Farmer/ Griggs in the student body runoff election Wednesday. 
•

You have to be 1n 
ND student gets windfall of $25,000 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 

AND KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Writers 
A few minutes before heading to a physics test Wednesday, sophomore Annie Cahill re­ceived something that made the test seem unimportant-a check for $25,000. 
The Siegfried Hall resident and native of Westlake, Ohio, was selected as a winner in the Publishers Clearing House Sweepstakes. 
Three members of the Pub­lishers Clearing House Prize Patrol arrived at her dorm with a red Nissan 300 ZX bedecked in a white bow. Representatives Dave Sayer, Todd Sloane and Bruce Goyer also brought a large display check for $25,000 that Cahill could accept in lieu of the car. 
For Cahill the decision to ac­cept the check was an easy one. Prior to Wednesday, she was not sure how she would pay her tuition for next year. After borrowing thousands of dollars to pay for this semester's tuition. her financial future was unclear. 
"This is the answer to my prayers." Cahill said. She plans to put the money in a bank cer­tificate of deposit and use the money for her tuition. 
"Now I can come back next year for sure," she said. 
Though Cahill will be taxed on the prize money, accepting the car would have proven more costly. 
Cahill entered the contest in the beginning of January and ordered Rolling Stone magazine in the hopes of improving her chances of winning. 

Publisher's Clearing house is a "multi-magazine subscription agency which sells via direct mail for over 200 leading pub­lishers in the United States and Canada," according to a press release. There is no require­ment to buy anything in order to enter the contest. 
Last week she received a Federal Express letter stating that she was a finalist in the 

By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Joe Blanco and David Flo­renzo edged out Nicole Farmer and Eric Griggs in the student body presidential run-offs on Wednesday. 
• 
Blanco!Florenzo just captured slightly over a majority earning 
52.32 percent, for 1894 votes, while Farmer/Griggs took 47.68 percent for 1726 votes. The vote margin was 168. 
Seventeen votes went to write­in candidates. 
Almost 48 percent of the stu­dent body voted, roughly the same amount as voted in the election on Monday. 
"We'd like to thank everyone who supported us," said Blanco, who campaigned on a platform focused on attempting to redirect University interests from research to undergradu­ate concerns. "We're looking forward to a very exciting year during the sesquicentennial of Notre Dame." 
"We're really anxious to sit down with Rob and Fred so we can hit the ground running," he continued. 
Farmer congratulated Joe 
•



it to w1n 
sweepstakes. "I didn't believe it," Cahill said. 
On Monday, her skepticism was erased when a representa­tive from the company called her to inform her that a draw­ing would take place Wednes­day. He asked her what time she would be free in case she won. 
Cahill was in the dormitorv when the representatives froril Publishers Clearing House ar­
see WIN / page 4 

page 2 Thursday, February 14, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Poetic words of love for a Valentine 
There's nothing like a------­
good old-fashioned love letter to really ignite your toes. 
In the spirit of Valen­tine's Day, I pulled out all my old love letters (arranged alphabetically 

according to "Infatuation," Paige Smoron "Lust," and "More Than . Three Months"). Asst. Accent Edttor 
I lost myself in a reverie of wonder: wonder at the naivete of youth. wonder at the selfless outpouring of emotion, wonder at how long the letters must have been marinated in "Polo" to retain their potent odor after all these years 
I came across one in particular that brought back all the sweet innocence of first love. Actually, what first caught my eye was that it was unceremoniously addressed to "Paige Hun" (I'm assuming it's a reference to that sweet sticky stuff and not to "Attila the"). 
It goes on to lament poignantly, "School sucks but lifes cool" (any creative punctuation is the suitor's own). 
There are a lot of cross-outs, and the spelling is none too impressive ("gorgeous" in particular was a problem), but there is a note of simple honesty in his touching verse, composed in my honor: 
Roses are red 
Violets are blue 
I really think 
I'm deeply in like with you 

(The traditional roses and violets imagery evokes a sense of chivalry, while I applaud his reluctance to commit to anything stronger than "like.") 
It's not pneumonia 
It's not turpentine 
I (heart) you baby 
Gimme some kinda sign 

(Extra points for spelling "pneumonia" and "turpentine" correctly, even ifit was by luck.) 
We don't believe in the devil 
We both believe in God 
I want your beautiful 
shape, exciting looking body 

(I'll refrain from commenting on the invo­cation of religious images here, juxtaposed with blatantly sensual passion, almost a ... but I was refraining.) 
U R kind of cute 
In church I'm a parishioner 
U turn me on 
Uke an air conditioner 

(Obviously a forerunner to Prince's absolute refusal to spell out pronouns. Also quite possibly a commentary on the impossibility of divorcing technology from romance.) 
I think I'll always treasure that heartfelt ­and definitely original -love letter. Every time I look at it I'm reassured that genuine, unaffected romance is not dead; it's merely taking on some fresh new forms. 
Still, I wish he'd signed his last name. 
I can't figure out where to file it. 
Today's  Staff:  
News Christine Walsh Ann Marie Hartman  VIewpoint Rich Ailey  
Accent Michael Whitman  Business Rich Ailey  
Sports Frank Pastor  Systems Cesar Capella Brian Stalter  
Scoreboard Mark McGrath  Photography John Rock  
Production Melissa Cusack Kristin Lynch  Circulation Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forecast for noon. Thursday, February 14. 
.lille>$\Ow hiOII temjlellltures.
WEATHER REPORT

FORECAST: 
Cloudy, windy, colder with a chance of snow and a high near 36. Friday more snow with highs in the low teens. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  l  
Athens  57  46  
Atlanta  64  4 7  
Berlin  28  19  
Boston  02  38  
Chicago  38  36  
Dallas·Ft.Worth  78  44  
Denver  54  27  
Detroit  38  31  
Honolulu  81  69  
Houston  76  52  
Indianapolis  54  33  
London  37  30  
Los Angeles  75  53  
Madrid  50  30  
Miami Beach  79  66  
Moscow  21  19  
New Orleans  76  50  
New York  42  33  
Paris  34  28  
Philadelphia  45  40  
Portlan<!, Ore.  53  44  
Rome  50  41  
St. Louis  56  30  
San Francisco  68  50  
South Bend  36  26  
Tokyo  52  39  
Washington, D.C.  49  43  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Shot Fired at U.S. Embassy
•BONN, Germany-The terrorist Red Army Faction claimed responsibility for firing bursts of submachine gun fire at the U.S. Embassy on Wednesday evening. No one was injured in the attack, police and embassy offi­cials said. A letter sealed in clear plastic and bearing the group's emblem was found on the east side of the Rhine River, directly across from the embassy, said Hans­Juergen Foerster, a spokesman for the federal prosecu­tor's office. Hesse state radio said the Red Army letter found by police referred to the group's opposition to the Persian Gulf War. 
Crime Reported Up in Czechoslovakia 
•PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia -The justice minister of the Czech republic has blamed last year's presidential amnesty for a rise in crime, the government news agency CTK reported Tuesday. In Romania, meanwhile, an official said nearly three times as many crimes were reported in 1990 as in the previous year under Communist rule. The statistics were in line with a general trend throughout Eastern Europe since the fall of Communist rule. It is unclear how much of the increase is due to freer reporting of crimes. Under Communist rule, crime officially was considered nearly non-existent. 
NATIONAL 
•CHAMPAIGN -University of Illinois students are resuming normal routines as fear caused by the 
OF INTEREST 
•sophomore 
Literary Festival is today at 8 p.m. in the Ubrary Auditorium. Irish poet Greg Delanty will talk and present some of his work. His recently released col­lection is "Cast in the Fire". His pieces also appear in nu­merous anthologies. 

•seniors 
interested in a year of volunteer work. Representatives from Eucharistic Ministries will be on campus today. Come meet Sr. Dorothy and Sr. Carol to discuss the options available to you. They will be in the li­brary concourse from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and in the esc from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 13, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
209.96 Million 199.43 -4} 1.42 

S&P COMPOSITE 

369.02 ~ 3.52 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,909.16 -t 34.41 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD .f $0.80 to$ 367.20oz. SILVER i) 4.4¢ to$ 3.753/oz. 

meningitis-related deaths of two sophomores subside, officials said Wednesday. The health center had dis­tributed antibiotics to 5,550 students by late Tuesday since the first of the student deaths this weekend. "Yesterday we treated 2,500 students," one health care center worker said. "Today there's nothing, no lines, and the number of calls we're receiving has greatly dimin­ished." 

-Americans are in no hurry to file their 1990 tax returns. Through Feb. 8, the Internal Revenue Service had received returns from 15.7 million couples and individuals, down 8.1 percent from the nearly 17.1 million tallied during the same period last year. The later filing continues a trend that the IRS has noted for several years. The IRS said Wednesday that it had processed nearly 6.6 million returns. down 3.1 percent from the 6.8 million during the period a year earlier. 
Administration Asks Congress to Lift Sanctions 
•WASHINGTON 
-The administration will ask Congress to lift some economic sanctions against South Africa if that nation frees all political prisoners by April 30, senior officials say. Consultations with lawmakers could begin by early summer and Congress would have 30 days to approve or reject the administration's request, said the officials, who spoke only on condition of anonymity. "Congress has set a checklist of criteria" for lifting the sanctions, "and we won't deviate from that," said one official. 

•students 
who have a car and are interested in visiting with a Senior Citizen from South Bend for the rest of the semester, get involved with SAVE. We will match you up with a senior citizen and you can start visiting him or her immediately. For more information call Eleanor Starkey at 283-1277. 

•Last 
day for submitting works to Humanitas, the journal of the College of Arts and Letters, is Friday. Short stories and scholarly essays (any length) will be consid­ered for publication in the spring issue. Drop off papers in the English department office. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On this day in history 
• 
In 1876: Inventors Alexander Graham Bell and Elisha Gray applied separately for patents related to the telephone. (The U.S, Supreme Court eventually ruled Bell the rightful inventor. 

• 
In 1929: The "St. Valentine's Day Massacre" took place in a Chicago garage as seven rivals of AI Capone's gang were gunned down. 

• 
In 1945: Peru, Paraguay, Chile and Ecuador joined the United Nations. 

• 
In 1980: CBS announced that Dan Rather had been chosen to succeed Walter Cronkite as anchorman and managing editor of "The CBS Evening News" the following year. 



"War is a profanity..." The United States is now at war with Iraq. Prior to this present military engagement, the issue of the justice of such an eventual war had stimulated wide discussion. Now that war has begun, the challenge to our conscience has gained in urgency and significance. As members of the Holy Cross Community at the University of Notre Dame, we address these words to the university community: * Many of us do not find that the mora\ criteria for a 'just war' have been fully satisfied in this case. However, Iraq's aggression and occupation of Kuwait and Iraq's defiance of the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council constituted severe violations of international law. * But neither those who reject totally the use of force in international relations, nor those who affirm the 'just war' tradition, view the use of force as a solution to the complex problems in the Middle East. As General Norman Schwarzkopf, Commander of the U.S. forces in the Middle East has said, ''war is a profanity, because, let's face it, you have two opposing sides trying to settle their differences by killing as many of each other as they can." Even as the war continues, we must constantly direct our efforts to the resolution of this conflict through a process of negotiation that will contribute to the settlement of the problems that cause instability throughout this region. This war may bring defeat to Iraq, but it will not bring peace unless one considers the silence of the graveyard to be peace. * All of us must show sincere respect for the rights of others and concern for their hopes and fears. This, of course, includes concern for those in our midst who are personally affected by this war, especially members of the armed forces and their families and friends, and those persons whose convictions summon them to demonstrate opposition to the war being waged by the United States in the Middle East. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C. Maureen Minihane, C.S.C. Judith Ann Beattie, C.S.C. Thomas E. Gaughan, C.S.C. Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C. David Burrell, C.S.C Joseph Godfrey, C.S.C. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. James Connelly, C.S.C. Gregory Green, C.S.C. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Terry Coonan, C.S.C. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Mary Curran, C.S.C. Richard Kyle, C.S.C. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. William Dohar, C.S.C. William Lewers, C.S.C. Beatus Schlenker, C.S.C. John Dunne, C.S.C. Rose Agatha Lundergan, C.S.C. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C. James J. Ferguson, C.S.C. James E. McDonald, C.S.C. Thomas K Zurcher, C.S.C. James Flanigan, C.S.C. Elena Malits, C.S.C.  - 

Cinema at the Snlte FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 






Baltics 
WASHINGTON {APJ -The Bush administration is consid­ering economic and diplomatic steps to expand U.S. support for the rebellious Baltic republics in their drive for independence from the Soviet Union. 
The measures under consid­eration include the opening of information offices in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and providing technical assistance for their economies, U.S. officials said Wednesday. 
All of the contemplated moves fall short of formal diplomatic ties with the three republics. 
A senior American diplomat, Richard Miles, has made two visits to the republics' capitals and will hold more frequent discussions with leaders of the independence movements, said the officials, who spoke on the
The (h;ervert£izabelh Peterson 
condition of anonymity. 
President Bush announced last week that the United States would provide medical aid to the Baltics. The hospital ship 
Sister re-opens women's shelter 
By DAVID CERTO 
News Writer 
A shelter for homeless women and their children re-opened recently in South Bend when it found a new director. 
The Holy Family Catholic Worker House resumed service to the community when Sister Theresa Walter arrived on Feb. 
1. The House had closed last fall when its full-time coordina­tor left. 
Walter guides the efforts to provide shelter for homeless 
---~---­

Thursday, February 14, 1991 The Observer page 3 



may get U.S. aid 
Senior Doug Ingram helps some clients file their 1 040 forms through the Notre· Dame Tax Assistance Program. 
Hope, under contract to the Agency for International Development, set sail Tuesday with supplies. 
Representatives of the project arrived Wednesday in the Baltics to make preparations for the first shipment, which also will be distributed in the Ukraine. It will be followed by others over 12 months to areas in the Soviet. Union experienc­ing shortages, the State Department said. 
The medical help may only be the first step in a vastly ex­panded program. New initia­tives are being prepared within the State Department for the consideration of administration decision-makers. 
"It is not a new policy. We are trying to demonstrate our political support," one official said. "So far what we may do is at the talking stage." 
The United States has never recognized the World War II incorporation of Lithuania, 
Priests cope with mandatory retirement 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church's 
mandatory retirement policy for 
diocesan priests leaves men 
who have been shaped by the 
church in a world of great 
paradoxes. 
Dr. Bernard Riegel, a special­ist in religion and aging issues, conducted a study on retired priests and the implications that the policy had on the men and the Church. 
Much of the information, ac­cording to Riegel, which was procured from a questionnaire circulated among 428 retired diocesan priests in five mid­west~rn dioceses, provided a representation of large, urban parishes and small, rural parishes. 
The Church currently adheres to the mandatory retirement policy for diocesan priests; each diocese sets a specific age. The policy has far-reaching im­plications for both the priests and for the Church, continued Riegel. 
"This is a group of men," he said, "who never expected to retire and, in effect, are faced with retirement. .. more or less out of the clear blue sky." Most diocesan priests work adminis­tratively under a bishop, follow­ing a stable structure. "There really wasn't a lot of room for the individual to do his own thing." 
The priests who are now faced with retirement, contin­ued Riegel, "they're free for the first time to set their own course. At age 65, after a life­time of working under pretty rigid guidelines, this could be quite a blow." 
"If you look at a male's ca­reer," he said, "retirement rep­resents a kind of the end of his sense of worth and value." However, secular retirees do not completely give up their profession or. in turn, their 
Latvia and Estonia into the 
Soviet Union. Successive admin­
istrations muted their criticism 
of the annexations until the in­
dependence movements gath­
ered force in the more liberal 
atmosphere permitted by Soviet 
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
Until recently, Secretary of 

State James A. Baker III and 
other senior officials spoke only 
of U.S. support for "self­
determination." They wanted to 
be careful not to antagonize 
Moscow, with which the United 
States had built good relations. 
But Baker and others have 

now taken to endorsing inde­
pendence directly, partly be­
cause of the tough measures 
taken by Gorbachev against the · secessionists. 
"We've made it very clear that we want to see the aspirations of the Baltic people for independence fulfilled," the sec­retary said in a televised inter­view Sunday. 
identity. 
This retirement situation of 

the priest is a unique one, said 
Riegel. "For the priest. you've 
got a person whose whole sense 
of value is tied up in his being a 
priest. All of his life he has con­
sidered being a priest is like 
being a human being." 
Riegel's study. he said, sought to find out what happens to the priests when the organization which has trained them and bonded them to the Church is no longer officially there for them. Priests expressed loneli­ness, and some complained of being neglected by their bishops "as though they're not really included in what's going on anymore." 
The new lives of the retired priests is dominated by sharp contrasts, said Riegel. For some, "it was a great new ex­perience that they were getting a lot of happiness out of, they brought a lot of enthusiasm to it... it was really a positive thing for them." 
While some completely aban­doned the role of priesthood, even to the extent of getting married or pursuing a second career, said Riegel, many found themselves performing their former duties part-time. 
Retirement leads priests into a lives of ambiguity, according to Riegel. "It's threatening, but they find it nice. They're lonely, but they're reasonably happy. There's a lot of paradoxes." 
Some of them even said this is the way things should be," he continued. "that now we'll see what the real world is like, how people really live, not just the kind of world the priests are familiar with." 
As the diocesan priests retire, they are forced to address ma­jor new issues, he continued. "The final stage of life is to ac­complish a sense of integrity or a sense of despair... the last thing is to basically decide whether it was all worth it or not."
-· 

women while they look for jobs and homes. Two assistants help her provide meals, day care and support for the guests, who stay in three bedrooms for up to two months. 
The Catholic Worker House was founded six years ago by a group of Catholic lay people who determined that services for homeless women and their dependents were needed. It is supported entirely by volunteer labor arid charitable contribu­tions, providing hospitality and assistance in the tradition of the Catholic Worker movement. 
Walter came to South Bend after serving at a mental health center in Michigan City, Indi­ana. She has experience as a chemical dependency counselor, religious educator and clinical social worker. A graduate of the University of Dayton, Walter' earned a master's degree from Loyola University in Chicago. 
Anyone interested in being a baby-sitter or cook or who cart donate funds or baby items can contact Sister Theresa Walter at 
(219) 234-1196 or visit the Holy Family House at 502 N. Notre Dame Avenue. 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1991 

Two refuse to testify against Mandela 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP} -Two key state witnesses said they feared reprisals and refused Wednesday to testify against Winnie Mandela, dealing a se­vere blow to the prosecution's case. 
Kenneth Kgase and Tabiso Mono appeared in the Rand Supreme Court but their refusal to give evidence left the state without its main witnesses in the trial against Mrs. Mandela, wife of African National Congress (ANC) leader Nelson Mandela. 
She and three others have been charged with four counts • each of kidnapping and assault. 
Prosecutor Jan Swanepoel said the state's case was based on the testimony of Kgase, Mono and Gabriel Mekgwe, three of the four young men al­legedly abducted and beaten at Mrs. Mandela's Soweto home in December 1988. The fourth, 14-year-old Stompie Seipei, was found dead in a field a week later. 
Mekgwe disappeared Sunday. Swanepoel said he was kid­napped, and Kgase and Mono said they fear for their own lives. 
The South African Press Association (SAPA) reported that a man claiming to be Mekgwe called the news agency Wednesday night and denied he 
Win 
continued from page 1 
rived. "Basically we just sur­prised her out of the blue," said Sloane, an associate advertising director. 
A dorm resident found Cahill and told her there was a deliv­ery downstairs. 
With cameras rolling, Cahill was informed that she had won $25,000. 
"I was totally shocked," said Cahill. "I just went numb." She sat in the car, but could 

was kidnapped. The caller said he was in Harare, Zimbabwe, and left South Africa voluntarily to avoid testifying against Mrs. Mandela and other ANC members, SAPA reported. 
"As someone involved in the (anti-apartheid) struggle and as a member of the ANC Youth League, I cannot betray my comrades," SAPA quoted the man as saying. It said a SAPA reporter familiar with Mekgwe said the caller's voice was simi­lar to the missing witness'. 
The caller said he did not feel safe in South Africa because he knew he could be detained for refusing to testify, SAPA said. 
Kgase and Mono could re­ceive up to two years in prison for refusing to testify, but Kgase said he preferred that to possible physical harm. 
"I really like my life, I want my life," Kgase said. 
Kgase 's lawYer, Paul Kennedy, said his client had been prepared to testify until the disappearance of Mekgwe. He argued that his client should not be imprisoned because the case was extraordinary, with Kgase facing possible recrimi­nation long after its completion. 
Judge M.S. Stegmann said he would rule Thursday on whether the witnesses would be imprisoned, which could effec­tively halt the trial. 
not take it for a test drive be­cause of her 12:15 p.m. test. 
Later Cahill called her mother and told her about the prize. "At first she didn't believe me. Then she started crying." 
After winning the prize, one friend advised Cahill not to spend all the money in one place. She replied, "I am-all at Notre Dame." 
After the excitement dies down, Cahill plans spend some of her prize money to travel to Florida for spring break, leav­ing her physics tests and tuition worries behind in South Bend. 
Happy Valentines Day to the greatest guy a girl could ask for! I 
miss you! Love Always 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 

this bunker was a dual-purpose location, i.e. civil on the top, military underneath and, there­fore, a legitimate target under the coalitions' rules of engage­ment," said Paul Beaver, pub­lisher of Jane's Defense Weekly. 
The attack occurred about 4 

a.m. By nightfall, rescuers were still working to remove huge chunks of concrete from tlH• 40-foot-deep facility in the al­Amerieh district, a middle-class neighborhood. 
Smoke still rose from the rubble, and about 5,000 people were gathered nearby, many awaiting word about missing relatives. · 
At mid-morning, more than 40 charred bodies were laid out on the ground at a time as dozens of ambulances shuttled back and forth to morgues. 
Containers of water could be seen in the rubble. Outside the bombed facility was a sign, in English and Arabic, designating the place as a bomb shelter, and loudspeakers which ap­peared to be used to sound alarms. 
One teenager, Omar Adnan, said he was the only one in his family to escape alive. He said his three younger sisters, mother and father all died. 
In a faint voice, Adnan, 17, said: "I was sleeping and sud­denly I felt heat and the blanket was burning. Moments later, I felt I was suffocating. I turned to trv and touch my mother who was next to me but grabbed nothing but a piece of flesh." 
Residents of the neighbor­hood crowded the scene, look­ing for relatives and friends. Men beat on their chests and yelled "Allahu Akbar!" Arabic for "God is Great." Women cried hysterically. 
Witnesses said the first mis­sile or bomb hit the entrance of the facility, jamming the only escape route. The second strike, moments later, pene­trated the 9-foot-thick concrete roof and exploded inside the windowless shelter, the wit­nesses said. 

Corrections 
In an article in Tuesday's Observer on a lecture titled, "The Portrait of a Woman: Notre Dame, Our Mother", the inscription on the University seal was stated incorrectly. The correct Latin phrase is: "Vita Dul-Cedo Spes", "Our life, our sweetness, our hope." The Observer regrets the error. 
Quotes attributed to Calvin Allen in a Wednesday Observer story about the meeting between minority students and Professor O'Hara were incorrectly attributed. The statements were made by Azikiwe Chandler. The Observer regrets the error. 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23 10 AM -5 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: Stages of relationships Expectations for the future Steps in making healthy decisions 
COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME: "It was nice to be able to have time to sit down and discuss our relationship!" "A good balance of time together, lecture and take-home 
materials" "An excellent opportunity to examine our relationship in a comprehensive way" 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Applications are due by Wednesday, February 20 

0MPUS MINISTRY 
Thursday, February 14, 1991 The Observer page 5 
SEA sponsors weekend boycott of Coors 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Associate News Editor 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is sponsoring a weekend boycott of Coors products beginning today in light of what the group views as a variety of environmental and social violations. 
Amy Jenista, co-president of SEA, said that the Coors Company is guilty of several en­vironmental violations for which they must be held ac­countable. 
SEA has distributed posters describing the actions and re-suits of Coors practices, using information collated and dis­tributed by Colorado University. According to the posters, Coors has: 
•opened a ceramics plant in Brazil to take advantage of the growing pulp and paper indus­try resulting from the razing of rainforests; 
•dumped 
20 million gallons of toxic substances in the Lowry Landfill, Colorado, without identifying the contents; 

•been 
identified as a major contributor to Denver's brown cloud; 

•been 
identified as a manu­facturer whose pollutants have 




At least three die 
•

1n Aspen crash 
ASPEN, Colo. {AP) -A the Aspen area. Learjet with at least three peo­The plane crashed about a ple on board crashed and half mile short of a runway on burned Wednesday night just McLain Flats, a mesa across the short of an airport in a light Roaring Fork River from the snow, authorities said. airport, witnesses said. The 
Skitch Rounsefell, patrol di· plane slid through snow about rector for the Pitkin County 200 yards, lost its wings and Sheriff's Department, said the left a trail of debris before it plan was carrying eight to 10 burned, they said. passengers. "He (the pilot} was going real 
But sheriff's Deputy Bruce fast. He stood it on one wing Benjamin, who was at the and then hit with the right scene, said only three people wing," said Colorado state pa· were on board. trol trooper Bruce Berry, who 
"I don't know how many saw the crash. people were inside. But nobody ."The plane broke into pieces lived through this.ft said Pitkin and was totally engulfed in County Coroner Steve Ayers. flames." he said. "To our 
Rounsefell said the plane was knowledge, there was no radio a Learjet 35 and was on its way traffic regarding an emergency. to Sardy Field, which is near It was snowing at the time, the Snowmass ski resort and is lightly, and had been snowing often used by celebrities visiting off and on all day." 
~Cheer Cheer For Old Notre Dame 
Informational Meeting 
Cheerleading & Leprechaun Tryouts 
~ Feb. 19, 1991 7:00 pm ~ 
11ft'Football Auditorium JACC~ 
contributed to lower birth more accountable for their ac­weights and increasing cases of tions. childhood cancer in Colorado. "We'd like to get students to 
Jenista also added that the take more notice and to mind Coors company has made a deal the environment more," he with a local Colorado gov­said. ernment for nearly unlimited Kamradt added that members dumping of waste products. of the Coors family involved Coors reportedly pays $50,000 with the company have a record per year for such rights, she of social and racial insensitivity. said, and the local government He claimed that company accepts the money as payment president Adolph Coors has for any necessary cleanups. allowed Ku Klux Klan cross 
Mike Kamradt, a member of burnings on brewery property, SEA, said that the group was and quoted a 1987 Reader's conducting the boycott in order Digest as saying Joe Coors is to help students to become "one of the country's leading more aware of what Coors is anti-environmentalists." doing, and to try to make Coors Jenista commented that SEA 
Christian action solves 
By MITCH FREEHAUF position a year ago to greatly News Writer affect the world, he said. Now, with the Gulf War and the worsening plight of the poor 
Christians are to take active and homeless, Drinan says he is roles in ending world problems, dismayed and thinks Christian according to Father Robert involvement is desperately Drinan, professor of law at needed. Georgetown University Law Drinan denounced the War in Center. the Gulf. He claimed that it did 
Centering on America's inter­not meet the Church's re· nal problems and the Gulf War, quirements for a just war. The Drinan said that people must money being spent in the Gulf first inform themselves about effort (over 200 billion dollars) world conditions, develop opin­is needed more in the United ions, and then take action States to end the problems of based on their beliefs. hunger and homelessness, he 
"The one thing that morally said. Drinan advocated an im­unites the world is human mediate cease fire. rights," said Drinan. Citing the "More than anything else, breakdown of Communism and people should be knowledge­the end of the Cold War, the able, informed, prayerful and United States was in a unique active," said Drinan. "We must 
decided to hold the boycott for 
only three days because they 
are acting in conjunction with 
over 300 other regional campus 
environmental groups across 
Indiana, Illinois and Michigan. 
"But we'd like to encourage students to continue the boy­cott," she said. 
These other groups are mem­

bers of the Student 
Environmental Action Coalition 
(SEAC). 
The boycott will be used as leverage with the company, she said, from which the campus groups will draw up a list of demands later to hold Coors responsible for their actions. 
conflicts 

devote ourselves to the promo­tion of justice, especially be­cause we live in a country ·like the United States which is looked up to by other nations of the world. To be a good Christian is to be a good citizen, and to be a good citizen is to be active in the community. We must try to fashion current situations to be the way we be­lieve they should be." 
In reference to modern world problems, Drinan quoted Elie Wiesel: "Those who are silent help the executioner, and the ultimate sin is silence." 
The lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame Department of Theology as part of the Liss Lecture Series. 
A $105.4 bil. proposal for transit 
WASHINGTON (AP) Environmentalists contended President Bush proposed on the continued emphasis on Wednesday a $105.4 billion, highways will dramatically in­five-year plan to prepare the crease oil consumption and 
nation's highways and mass threaten air-quality improve­transit systems "for the next ments. American century." Others criticized the bill's en­
But state highway officials couragement of tolls to pay for said the proposal was inade­new and repaired bridges and quate, would raise state tax­highways -both publicly and payers' costs and will be privately owned. rewritten in Congress. But Bush and Transportation 
Mass transit officials said Secretary Samuel Skinner said 
they have been shortchanged. they believe that the legislation is properly balanced and that its highway provisions are needed to fix deteriorated 

roads and bridges "so that America can stay competitive in the global economy of the 21st century." 
Skinner said each $1 billion spent on highway construction creates 30,000 to 50,000 jobs. 
is currently accepting applications 
Hal Rives, president of the
for the following paid positions: 

Association of State Highway Transportation Officials, called the bill a good start and added, 
A~ Design Man~ger-An enthusiastic and computer­
"On a scale of 1 to 10, we give 
the administration bill a 6." "It is not dead on arrival" on 
onented person Is needed to use her creative talents 
to produce high quality and professional ads for 
Capitol Hill, "but it will not pass 
Observer clients. Macintosh experience is a plus. as arrived," said Frank Francois, executive director of 
the association.
Art Director-A motivated person is needed to use 
"The concept is good," said Rives, who is Georgia's trans­
his cr~ative t~lents i~ the areas of both computer 
portation commissioner. "It
graphtcs and Illustrations. Applicants should have 
streamlines the entire program. But the funding is clearly inad­equate to meet our national transportation needs. And what money is there is not fairly dis­tributed." 
The bill proposes spending, in addition to several minor pro· grams, $87.17 billion on high­ways and $16.3 billion for mass transit over the next five years. 
In a series of policy shifts, the legislation proposes giving pri­ority for federal highway aid to a 150,000-mile National Highway System, which would be composed of the 42,000-mile interstate highway system and other highways important to the economy and the national defense. 
The federal government would pay 7 5 percent of the cost of repairing existing roads and building new roads in this system. 
The annual federal share would rise in each of the five years from $7.7 billion in 1992 to $11.2 billion in 1996. 
The only higher priority would go to completing the un· built 1 percent of the interstate system and to making critical repairs. Such projects would continue to be financed by the federal government on a 90 percent-10 percent basis. 

examples of illustrations and experience with 
anted: A man to call and wish Macintosh graphics programs. 
Stephanie a Happy Valentine's Day at %84-S078
Production Manager-An energetic and enthusiastic lea?er is sought to manage the computer-aided design of the newspaper. Experience with Macintosh desktop publishing programs is preferred. 
A resume and a two-page personal statement should be su~mitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 pm Friday, Feb.15. Questions about these positions should be directed to Kelley or Lisa at 239-5303. 

World leaders still trying diplomacy 
MOSCOW (AP} -Iraq's foreign minister will meet in Moscow with President Mikhail Gorbachev to pursue talks to end the Persian Gulf War, and a top Kuwaiti diplomat arrived Wednesday, Soviet officials said. 
Elsewhere, the foreign minis­ters of Iran and Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan's prime minister, flew to Geneva on Wednesday. Diplomats would not say whether the visits were linked to a peace initiative, but Iran has been actively seeking an end to the war. 
And German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher said Syria was ready to recognize Israel's right to exist as part of a postwar order in the Middle East. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz is to arrive Sunday and will 


i meet with Gorbachev the following day, Soviet officials said. It will be the first visit to Moscow by such a high-ranking Iraqi official since the war be­gan. 
•, I. 
, I 
! 
i i The visit follows a diplomatic ' mission to Baghdad this week by Gorbachev's envoy, Yvegeny 

WASHINGTON (AP)-Whether via song, videotape or crayon and construction paper, valentines of love, longing and support poured out across the country for American soldiers at war in the Persian Gulf. 
Thousands of messages came from children in the quiet New England valley around Westover Air Force Base, the last sight of home for thousands airlifted to the Persian Gulf. 
War is as close to the little farming villages and brick cities around the Chicopee, Mass., base as the hourly roar of the massive C-5 cargo jets pound­ing east to Saudi Arabia. 
And the children who have watched the big planes come

:~ 
> ( and go for six months re­sponded with more than 32,000 construction paper hearts,/) sometimes decorated with pa­( per lace, flags, and peace sym­bols and sealed with "lots of XXXs." f "The word got out and it just { exploded," said Col. Joseph 
I 
OPERATION DESERT STORM
page 6 Thursday, February 14, 1991 
I 
I 
( 
I, Is Saddam killing his own people? 
Primakov. 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein told Primakov that Iraq was ready to cooperate with the Soviets in their efforts to reach a settlement, Baghdad radio reported. 
He also told Primakov that the Soviets bear "political, legal and moral responsibility for the brutal crimes" against Iraq be­cause they approved U.N. Security Council resolutions supporting military action, the radio said in a broadcast moni­tored in Cyprus. 
When he returned to Moscow on Wednesday night, Primakov refused to comment about his negotiations with Saddam. 
"I don't want to jeopardize the process," he told reporters. "The process makes us hopeful because the process has begun. We are against the war and we want to stop it." 
Primakov also said that dur­ing a meeting with an aide to Saddam he raised "in very sharp form" the issue of American POWs held by Iraq. 
"I said it is a violation of morality and the Geneva con-
Children mail 32,000 hearts to soldiers 
Curley, who gives valentines to troops shipping out. "We just tell them to carry them as far out in Saudi as they can get them and then pass them on." 
Cards also festoon the hangar that serves as a makeshift passenger terminal. 
The men and women waiting to ship out smile misspellings: One card wished "A Happy Valentine's Day to the trops." 
''I'm sorry you have to go to war," wrote Lorraine Rivera of Holyoke, Mass. "Why can't Gorge Bush and Sadem just armwrestle? But I guess you can't do that. Anyway I hope you come home soon." 
"Kids. You gotta love them," said Navy Chief C.R. Wicks from Montgomery, Ala., as he read each message on a massive, heart-filled poster contributed by the first grade at Holy Name School in Westfield. "And it doesn't matter whether they are American or\ Saudi or Iraqi." 
vention and is counterproduc­tive because it turns public opinion against him," Primakov said. "In response, they told me that Americans are bombing residential areas, which is also a violation of the Geneva con­ventions." 
Vitaly Ignatenko, a Kremlin spokesman, told reporters Aziz's trip was intended "to continue the Soviet-Iraq con­tact." 
"The discussions in -Baghdad give cause for hope," Ignatenko said. 
Another Kremlin spokesman, Sergei Grigoriev, said: "The essence of the Soviet plan will never go beyond the limits of the U.N. Security Council reso­lution obliging Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait and restore the independence of Kuwait." 
Iraq has refused to negotiate a cease-fire conditioned on a withdrawal from Kuwait, which Western leaders demand. 
Also arriving in Moscow was Kuwait's foreign minister, Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah. Vitaly Churkin, a Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman, said the trip had been scheduled long before the Primakov mission. The exiled Kuwaiti was sched­uled to meet with Gorbachev on Thursday. 
Churkin said the Soviet Union was not trying to be a mediator but "is trying to do everything possible to try to cease blood­shed as soon as possible and to achieve the full implementation of the Security Council resolu­tions." 
Churkin said Soviet officials would brief the Americans about Primakov's discussions. 
Baghdad radio said Saddam told Primakov he always had been willing to reach a "peaceful, just and honorable settlement ... in a manner that would secure Iraq's rights and the rights of the Arab nation, especially in Palestine." 
A KGB political officer, meanwhile, questioned the mo­tives of the U.S.-led coalition. 
"War is always a difficult event but when we see destruc­tion, extermination of people, many questions come to us," Maj. Gen. Boris Golshchov said at a news conference hours 

STRUCTURE DESTROYED IN BAGHDAD 
} WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
; Bush administration declared on Wednesday that Saddam Hussein "kills civilians inten­tionally" and suggested he al­lowed Baghdad residents to use the structure hit by U.S. bombs in hopes of shielding a military bunker. "We sincerely regret any damage or any deaths caused to the civilian population," Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said. But he said the United States would continue bombing military targets even if Saddam 
i 
mixes them into civilian areas, 

as U.S. officials contend. i As for the Baghdad structure, ! presidential spokesman Marlin 
Fitzwater said allied war plan­ners had taken great care to single out a military target and hit it at a time -4 a.m. in Baghdad -when few civilians might be in the vicinity. 
"We thought we had taken as many precautions as possible" to avoid hitting civilians, Fitzwater said. That so many apparently were killed in the underground structure "tends to lend itself to our suspicions that they were there on purpose and they were made vulnerable on purpose." 

Cheney said he didn't know whether Saddam had urged civilians to use the structure. But he said the Iraqi leader has shown such little regard for civilian life that "the suggestion that he may have indeed en­couraged civilians to occupy what he knew to be a military facility is possible." 
The war, Cheney said in a speech before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, "will not end un­til he gets out of Kuwait." The secretary said the allies were "doing everything they can" to avoid civilian casualties and would continue to do so. 
Iraqi authorities said at least 500 civilians were killed by al­lied bombs that hit the Baghdad structure early Wednesday. But Cheney said, "There is no question in my mind ... that it was a military target." 
Fitzwater termed it "a com­mand and control center that fed instructions directly to the Iraqi war machine." He said it had been "painted and camou­flaged to avoid detection," and was of the type that allies had been "systematically attacking since the war began." 
Saddam has "time and again ... shown a willingness to sacri­fice civilian lives and property to further his war aims," Fitzwater said. "He kills civil­ians intentionally and with pur­pose." 
The Iraqi leader can bring the bombing to a halt by pulling out of Kuwait, both men said. 
At a Pentagon briefing, Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Desert Storm commanders were sure it was a military facility because it had been "used consistently" to communicate with Iraqi troops "r:~ht up to the time we went for 't," military personnel had been '>een coming and going from u. ~ structure and military vehicles •. std been parked out­side it. 
"We can't for~close a cold­blooded decision on the part of Saddam Hussein to put civilians in facilitiesft knowing they might be targeted as military sites, Kelly said. 
Capt. David Herrington, the deputy director of intelligence for the Joint Staff, showed sev­eral sketches of the building at the briefing, saying it contained communications equipment that had been specially protected to withstand even a nuclear blast, and that the top floor of the structure had been reinforced with metal over 10 feet thick. 
after Iraq claimed that hun­dreds of civilians had been killed in an attack in Baghdad. 
"Is this a war for the sake of protection of sovereignty of Kuwait? Was it necessary at all to destroy so many people, to preserve the sovereignty? Maybe other methods might have been used," said Golshchov, first deputy head of the political department of the KGB's frontier guards. 
In Damascus, Germany's Genscher said after talks with his Syrian counterpart that Syria was ready to recognize Israel's right to exist as part of a postwar peace accord. 
Later, a statement was issued on behalf of Syrian President Hafez Assad saying Syria's po­sition was linked to a 1973 U.N. resolution that demands Israeli withdrawal from occupied Arab territories and settlement of the Palestinian question. The statement did not specifically mention the issue of recognizing Israel. 
ND blood donors 'affirm life' 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group 
(GCAG) organized an Ash 
Wednesday blood drive for vic­
tims of the war in the Persian 
Gulf. 
Allan Crosbie, graduate stu­
dent in the Institute for 
International Peace Studies 
and a spokesman for the GCAG, 
said the blood drive was "a 
symbolic action to allow people 
to show their solidarity with 
victims of the war." 
Although blood banks pro­
hibit donors from designating 
how their blood is used, "we 
wanted to affirm life in this 
time of bloodshed," said 
Crosbie. 
The GCAG opposes the war in the Gulf but encouraged those who oppose its views to join the blood drive. Vienna Colucci, also a graduate student in the Institute for International Peace Studies, called the drive "a point at which we can come together." 
The GCAG and anti-war protesters in general have been criticized for not supporting the troops, but Colucci said the group wanted to show its sup­port in a very specific way. She said, "The best support is to help them come home safely." 
Both Crosbie and Colucci em­phasized the GCAG's solidarity with all victims of the war. Colucci said, "Due to censor­ship on both sides, the public does not hear about all the ca­sualties." She added that the GCAG sympathizes with all combatants and non-combat­ants who are suffering. 
Crosbie called the blood drive a success, with over 50 pints collected. He said that the donors represented "a good cross section of the community at Notre Dame" and that re­sponse had been uniformly positive. 


Business 
Thursday, February 14, 1991 page 7 
Valentine gifts sell 
By JOHANNA KELLY Business writer 
What did you give your Valentine today? According to LaFortune's specialty shops, students spent big bucks on both traditional and creative gifts this Valentine's Day. 
The Country Harvester of­fered a variety of gifts for that special Valentine this year. "The store has everything that the Bookstore doesn't," said owner Rose Horak. "Students are glad to have it." 
Candy is the biggest seller this year, followed by stuffed animals, said Horak. A wide assortment of cards, including Walt Disney, the Far Side, as well as special Valentines, were a big hit. Horak also noted that troll dolls sold well this year. 
Horak said that their UPS service has been exceptionally busy this week. "People are get­ting all goofy and decorating the boxes and stuff," added Country Harvester employee Maura Weiler. 
Another LaFortune business has been targeted for Valentine gifts this year; Fudge n Things provided a number of gift ideas for students. The majority of customers purchased gift cer­tificates for their Valentines while others purchased candy. 
"The gift certificates are used mostly for scoops of ice cream and sundaes," said assistant manager David Breitbach. 
Irish Gardens, also · in LaFortune, prepared weeks in advance for the holiday's tradi­tional flower rush. 
"By far, Valentine's Day is the single largest event for a florist," said head manager Brad Galko. "The amount of traffic is phenomenal." 
The shop ordered 3500 roses ahead of time and expected to sell out, said assistant manager Margie Manzano. Thirty-thou­sand flowers were ordered by students for this Valentine's Day, approximately 3,000 of them being red roses. A dozen roses sell for $32.00, added Manzano. 
Red and white striped tulips and orange roses also sold this year. Although there were sev­eral requests for striped, polka­dotted, or black roses, Irish Gardens basically sold popular arrangements, said Manzano. 
In addition to flowers. Irish Gardens sold a number of bal­loons, including the "walking" type, this year, said Manzano. 
Overall, students kept local shops busy this Valentine's Day. 
Tax assistance provided 
Special to the Observer 
Plymouth residents can take advantage of the University of Notre Dame's 20th annual Tax Assistance Program. 
The program, in which volunteer tax preparers assist low-income taxpayers with free preparation of their tax returns, opened February 9 at several Michiana sites. Student and faculty accountants from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and certified public accountants from the Plymouth firm of Umbaugh & Associates will assist Plymouth taxpayers with annual incomes at or below $22,000 on Feb. 16, March 2 and March 23. Appointments may be made by calling 936­3388. 
GSU 
OFFICER ELECTIONS March 5, 1991 
Nominations: for the position of President and Vice-President by February 18. 
Applications for the following positions: Orientation Chair and Vice-President for Administration are available at the GSU office. 
Campaign: for the position of Pres. and V .P., February 25-March 1. 
Elections: March 5. 

Call the GSU office at 239-6963 for more information. 

Two students shop for Valentine's Day flowers in Irish Gardens Florist. Irish Gardens prepared far in ad­vance for the traditional holiday rush. The shop ordered 3,500 roses and expected to sell out. 
Doughnuts spark new trend; sales rise 
NEW YORK (AP) ­Doughnuts lined up in soldierly precision bedazzle Agent Dale Cooper on "Twin Peaks." A heaping basket of them grace the cover of Gourmet and the inside pages of Town & Country this month. 
We sense a trend: Are doughnuts becoming the crois­sant of the '90s? 
"Doughnuts are becoming trendy? How depressing," said Michael Warren, who with his wife, Ann, runs the Cupcake Cafe in New York City. The little hole-in-the-wall pastry shop near the Port Authority bus terminal is one of the few -if not the only -places in the city to make doughnuts entirely from scratch. 
"We approached the dough­nut as a neglected species," Warren said. "The chocolate chip cookie had its day, the croissant had its day, but no­body was doing the doughnut" when the couple set up shop 2 1/2 years ago. Warren clearly wants it to stay that way. 
"Oh, I hope they don't be­come a yuppie thing because that will just ruin them," said American food arbiter Michael Stern, who with his wife, Jane, wrote such books as "The Encyclopedia of Bad Taste" and "Roadfood, Goodfood." 
"Doughnuts won't become popular as something that is chic, but something that is retro-chic," he predicted. "Doughnuts are lumpish, Junky, greasy, heavy and nutritionally wanton in all the ways that people know they shouldn't go. People are eating them as a backlash to the health mania." 
Doughnut sales are up, said an executive at Dunkin' Donuts, by far the largest doughnut chain in America with more than 2,000 stores worldwide. 


TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR College Spotlight Programs 
Spotlight programs are designed to assist first year students who might be uncertain regarding their choice of a college program. Each of the programs will outline the structure and curriculum of the college and its departments. The schedule for the spotlight programs, each of which will last about one hour, is as follows: 
Engineering February 14, 7:00P.M. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall "Education in the College of Engineering", a program arranged by Dr. Anthony N. Michel, Dean of the College of Engineering, will be presented. 
Business Administration February 18, 6:30P.M. Cushing Auditorium "Education in the College of Business Administration," a program arranged by SamuelS. Gaglio, Assistant Dean, and Richard P. Johnson, Undergraduate Advisor, will be presented. 
Arts and Letters February 19, 7:00P.M. Cushing Auditorium "Education in the College of Arts and Letters," a program arranged by Dean Michael J. Loux and the Staff of the College of Arts and Letters, will be presented. 
Science February 21,6:30 P.M. 127 Nieuwland Science 
"Education in the College of Science," a program arranged by Dr. Jeremiah P. Freeman, Associate Dean of the College of Science, will be presented. Dr. Freeman will be assisted by members of the College of Science Student Council. 

Viewpoint
page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor••••••.......•......... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ..•..••••.•....Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••••••••••.••••••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor •.•••••.•..•.....Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ••..............•..••.••. Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by •the students of the University of Notre. Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

:q I '.·I'_( 
'' il,. 
::\ 
.' 
I} 

Thursday, February 14, 1991 



Worse than war is the As Catholics, fans should practice evil of Arab fascism 
compassion, not cast aspers·ions 
Dear Editor: these facts already, but what I learned from Gaffney was that 
Dear Editor: corrupt players Syracuse allows to "cast the first stone." ThePeter Bajzek and Tim this illustrated that there is a Once again, hypocrisy runs to attend its university. How Lord does not tell us that weHemstreet rightly criticize diversity of opinion in the PLO, rampant at Notre Dame, this soon we forget our athletes who should pick and choose when
Matthew Miller for assuming that it is not monolithic.
\ ( time occurring on the weekend have come into conflict with the we should show compassion. If
that Professor Talhami of Lake Gaffney's words are etched in
l( of the Syracuse-Notre Dame law, in some instances Notre Dame students and fans
Forest College was male (The my mind: "So you see, it's sort
I basketball game. It started with threatening not only their own are going to preach a holier
Observer, Feb. 7). But they ig­of like a democracy." 
an Observer article, and lives but that of another when than thou attitude, you betternorantly assume that this af­Democracy indeed! 
resulted with a very un­getting behind the wheel when live it. 
fects the logical force of his 

Christian chant at the game it­drunk. Maybe if Johnson were
criticism of her. Sandwiched around an 
self. an All-American at Notre Dame, As a result of these actions,Amnesty International factual On Feb. 8, an Observer staff we could overlook his personal we as a community should look I attended the teach-in and inventory of Hussein's human report painted a very negative short comings. to where we hold our valuesheard Professor Talhami defend rights murders, including the 
picture of the past relationships holy, reassess our actions and
Saddam Husseins's drive to hundreds of Kuwaiti premature of David Johnson, one of the This article led to a chant at either act like Catholics, or not possess nuclear weapons as an babies disconnected from life­opposing players. The Observer the game directed at David profess to be Catholics. 
attempt at fair-minded "nuclear support systems and killed after report was not the article which Johnson when he stepped up toparity" with Israel. I heard her the invasion, were the opinions, 

appeared in USA Today, but the foul line. At a Catholic uni­Jack Daly 
say that the Scud missile dissembling of facts and 
rather a piece done in poor versity, it seemed a rather con­Pangborn Hall attacks against the civilian outright falsehoods I heard that taste to show what morally tradictory for Notre Dame fans Feb.9,1991
population of Israel were not. evening. Now that I know that terrorist. I heard her denounce assassination is sort of like Israel for a pre-emptive strike democracy, forgive me if I am against Iraq last month which not persuaded by the never took place never took apologetics for Arab fascism. place and which would have been justified by Iraq's pre-war Our war against Hussein was threats and actual use of fueled by American foreign pol­civilian targeted missiles. I icy stupidity in helping a heard her lie that Yassir Arafat shrewd psychopathic assassin was not warmly embracing and by American greed in oil Hussein, and I heard her give and arms sales policies. But the the usual veiled threats that the long-term dangers of mass de­West will suffer the wrath of struction including the mass mass Arab fascism. I heard her destruction of his fellow Arabs ignore the Kuwaiti predicament which Hussein presented were and the question of principle by intolerable. Fascism is not like turning attention to her own democracy, and the Arab 
self-interest group, the masses are clearly moved by Fans' support for ND players soured 
Palestinians. I heard almost pan-Arab Fascism, just as al­everyone present applaud her. most all of their leaders are 
by verbal assaults against Syracuse 
moved by unprincipled power. I heard my friend Patrick War is a horrible thing. But a 
Dear Editor: of another storied "Notre Dame amusement is quite another.
Gaffney, in response to a ques­heavily-armed murderous fas­Despite the disappointment of sports moment." Unfortunately. One hopes that those involvedtion, describe the assassination cism such as represented by 
losing, Saturday's basketball the event was marred by a will someday understand the
;, of Arafat's number-two man as Hussein is worse than war.
( game was a real spectator's tasteless chant directed at one difference.
resulting from his wanting to 

treat. The teams played hard of the Syracuse players.
distance Palestinians from Eugene Rochberg-Halton 
~ and the fans demonstrated Supporting your team with class Michael J. Etzel 
Hussein. Hussein apparently Associate Professor 
( 
great enthusiasm. As a result, is one thing, verbally assaulting Professor of Marketing( ordered Abu Nidal to have his Dept. of Sociology 
(; we came within a few seconds an individual for one's own Feb.10,1991
people murder the man. I knew Feb. 7,1991 
' 
II DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


WtU-, fT'5 ffl<­ B.P.'5 IN THe  '/CAH, MYOW~  
:r  ;ovA& fOf<  GIJtF?MAN, IT  WM!rlATe. He 7001<  
if_  HIM. H8'S RfAJ..·  5lft/YI':J tJI<l3  NROT&, ANPNOW H&'E>  
tY WORR/£31?  RY80PY J<NOW5  OV&R ON A NAVY  
fr(  Af30UT8.[).I  ~7HEn 1 \  51-1/P..  
lj  
ll  
'I ·I 'i  
£  
-{  
1 d  
it  
!c  
I  

'It you have to probe that far into someone's heart, you have no business being there.' 
FRANCIS ZAFFERE 

1 1 I ,,j,• "1 ·, .~ .~ ,1 J
•,,1, .... _.... 'Ill' 1', I. I 'I ••. I, ... • ' • ~ '. J 1 o 1I··' I J '• I fl!l 
Viewpoint

Thursday, February 14, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

For too long West has meddled in the Middle East 
Dear Editor: Russia. when he invaded Kuwait, for, in 
After reading Matthew It was necessary that Sykes­reality, the Kuwait-Iraqi border 
Miller's letter (The Observer, Picot be absolutely secretive be­has always been disputed by 
Jan. 31), I was disappointed cause, while the Agreement was Iraq. 
that any Notre Dame student being drawn up, Britain was 
could write such an ill-informed courting the Sherif Hussein Immediately after Britain an­
diatribe. through the McMahon corre­nounced its decision to give 
spondence of 1915-16, which Kuwait its full independence in 
At the "History of the Persian led Arab Nationalists to believe 1961, Iraq's Prime Minister Gulf' lecture, Professor Gaffney that, in return for their support Kassim claimei the territory presented a historical back­of the Allied powers, indepen­was an integral part of his ground on the region. Since Mr. dence would be granted to the country. The Iraqi claim was Miller apparently did not attend Arab States after Turkey's de­based on the belief that the the lecture, I will briefly provide feat. However, at the close of 1899 treaty with Britain had some background on this topic. the war, the Arab States were been forged and that Kuwait 
For a thorough understanding not granted independence and had been part of the Ottoman of the situation, one must go were placed under a mandatory administrative region, which back to the entry of the Ottoman regime. included Iraq. Given Britain's Empire into World War I on the history of deceptive behavior in side of the Central Powers on In addition, the Arabs were the region, this claim was not Oct. 31, 1914. This event further betrayed by the West unreasonable. A border com­marked the turning point in the because, during this same time mission was established in 1963 history of the Middle East. period, Britain had committed to settle the dispute; however, Throughout the nineteenth itself to supporting Zionism the commission never reached a century, Britain and France sat through the Balfour Declaration definitive decision. It is clear like hungry vultures, waiting for of 1917, which stated its that Kuwait was disputed the demise of the Ottoman readiness to help establish a territory and, in Hussein's mind, Empire so they could devour up national home for Jews. Iraq did have legitimate claim to the Middle East and continue The point of this brief lesson the region. Naturally, Iraq's their imperialist expansion. In is to convey why Arabs feel that historical claim to Kuwait does line with these ambitions, the their dream of unity was de­not justify the invasion of Allied Powers in May, 1916, stroyed by Western imperialism Kuwait or Iraq's human rights reached a secret agreement (the and that borders imposed by the violations in the region, which Sykes-Picot Agreement) about West can and, indeed, should are abhorrent. However, as the final disposition of the be called into question. Clearly, Professor Talhami stated, the Ottoman territory after the war. the issue of Western-imposed situation remains an internal This agreement unscrupulously borders and Western Arab problem. divided up the Middle East interference in the region was between Britain, France and on the mind of Saddam Hussein Finally, Mr. Miller asserts that 
Students encouraged to boycott environmentally abusive Coors 
Dear Editor: failed to notify the Colorado has failed to remove the car­
This weekend, from Thursday Department of Health or the cinogenic substances from the to Sunday, the ND Students for Environmental Protection area's drinking water, causing Environmental Action are Agency. They were later cited in unusually low birth weights and calling for a campus-wide boy­1985 and again in 1986 for wa­early childhood cancer. The cott on all Coors Beer Products ter pollution by the CDH. Coors Company has also (including Keystone) as a reac­Currently, there is a State dumped approximately 20 mil­tion to the long history of bla­Attorney's criminal investigation lion gallons of this toxic waste tant environmental abuse in­of Coors in suspicion that into the Lowry Landfill. flicted by this company. This company officials wittingly boycott is part of the on-going concealed leaking pipes at the Please take these facts into National Boycott of Coors by the can plant that tainted as many consideration and make a con­Student Environmental Action as five underground springs scientious decision this weekend Coalition (SEAC) and is in with toxic chemical solvents and in the future when choosing association with a regional contributing to many serious your beer. It's time that we boycott in 300 other campuses physical ailments and even realize that the "Silver Bullet" is in Michigan, Illinois and death. killing our environment and Indiana. that maybe we should "head for 
This investigation has led to the mountains," or drink beer 
Several infractions by this the exposure of illegal dumping from "the land of sky-blue brewing company have been re­of contaminated wastewater water" instead. ported in The Rocky Mountain into Clear Creek tributaries. News since 1981, when Coors This water has subsequently Marit Fischer first detected their contribution been diverted into an ineffective Pasquerilla East to groundwater pollution but chemical treating plant which Feb. 11, 1991 there is no linkage between Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the Arab-Israeli conflict. One would have to be a right-wing Zionist or a member of the Bush regime to believe this propaganda. The two are clearly linked by Western impe­rialism in the region. The West has systematically created bor­ders in the Middle East which satisfy its own needs and has gone to the extreme in creating an entire nation-Israel-to suit its needs and military interests. 
The state of Israel was created by Britain and the U.S., in part, to perpetuate their own interests in the area-without regard to the Arab nation's view on the matter and with absolute disregard for the plight of the Palestinians. Since its creation in 1948, Israel has systemically attempted to expel all Palestinians from Palestinian lands. These efforts are en­hanced by the billions of dollars in U.S. military aid which has made Israel a military monster and has completely skewed the balance of power in the region. 
Since the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 1967, conditions for the Palestinians have worsened. Professor Talhami articulately stated that Palestinians in the occupied territories have suf­fered "every human rights vio­lation one could think or-murder, torture, rape and plunder, all of the injustices that Hussein is accused of committing in Kuwait, but last­ing for over 23 years without the Western Nations ever ex­pressing more than passing "concern." However, when the West's oil is threatened, then it is time to play "policepersons" to the world and to send thou­sands of young soldiers to fight in a dispute which is not their own to meddle in. 
If there is to be a lasting peace in the Middle East, Western powers must finally accept that Arab nations are not children, and that they are quite capable of settling their own problems. The West must also end its interference in the region-all sentiments ex­pressed by Professor Talhami in her talk. Most importantly, a homeland must be established for the Palestinians, along with an end to the billions of dollars a year of U.S. aid to Israel. Only then can one seriously see a future for peace in this war-torn region. 
Maura O'Siochain Off-campus 
Feb.5,1991 


Professor's negative remarks contradictory and offensive 
Dear Editor: 
In the Feb. 6 edition of The Observer, I read an article about the second Peace Support Group meeting at Saint Mary's College. The statements within that article compel me to respond. 
First, Peggy Abood, a senior, makes a few contradictory statements. She says that she thinks that the "United States (should) play the role of a mediator." However, as if to dispute herself, she asks if "the United States (should) be the world police?" The two statements are diametrically opposed and only serve to weaken her fence-sitting position. If not us, Ms. Abood, then who? I would like to point out that the UN has done nothing to play "world police," nor has any other nation. If the 
U.S. refrained from interfering, it would send a message to Saddam and every other petty despot of the globe that unprovoked violence is perfectly acceptable. 

Later, Professor Elizabeth Noel states that if "we get rid of Saddam and liberate Kuwait, other countries will unite (against the Allies), and we'll have another problem." May I ask who will unite against the Allies? The only Middle Eastern country which is still neutral is Jordan; Syria, Turkey, Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and, of course, Kuwait have all either joined the anti-Iraq coalition or been attacked by Saddam's forces. Iran will not ally against the U.S. because it has offered to play mediator in this war, and Jordan has but a token military force. 
Professor Ann Clark says that "Americans are naive. We think that we're special and have special moral insight." Yet, she later repudiates herself when she says that "we ought to be mediating." These are opposite viewpoints; how can we possibly mediate fairly if we think we are superior to Arabs, as Ms. Clark implies? 
Ms. Clark later claims that "the Pentagon never tells the truth during a war....The Pentagon can't tell the truth because they think it's a threat to national security." There is no doubt in my or any military analyst's mind that it is indeed a threat. When the first Scud missiles hit Israel, the network reporters conveyed their exact positions, which enabled the Iraqis to pinpoint their accuracy. Saddam himself has mentioned that he relies on CNN to find out what's going on. 
A Saint Mary's student, Sarah Carroll, complains that President Bush "cannot tell the public when the war will be over," even though he stated that "We're on schedule." Does Ms. Carroll think that President Bush is a god? He cannot foretell the future; when he says that the military operations are on the timetable which was expected, he means that everything is on schedule up to that time. He does not mean that Operation Desert Storm is permanently on track; such claims would be foolish. 
The most offending and prejudiced remark in the entire article is made by Professor Elizabeth Noel about media coverage. She inaccurately argues that "when listening to (some) men talking, they treat is as a substitute for football. They're almost exhilarated. It's like a game." That blatantly sexist remark is nothing but an incorrect generalization. If I had made such a remark about women, I would be publicly lambasted for my statements. Few men, if any. at this university view war as a game. War is a brutal, horrible convention, and, if I may speak for the "men" at this school, we don't consider war a substitute for football. but a very serious issue. 
It is too bad that those statements quoted in The Observer as having been made at the Peace Support Group are so contradictory and sexist. I am quite angered at Professor Noel's prejudiced and sexist statement; I am especially angered that such a claim was made by a professor. 
Ma«hew Miller Carroll Hall 
Feb 7,1991 





Accent 
10 


lVlal<e an 
run on... 
The Love Boat 
"Love, it's exciting and new! portation I could find to Puerto "Love Boat" taught an impor­Come aboard, we're expecting Vallarta, where I hope to find tant lesson about real life. you. The Love Boat soon will the exotic root I need to perfect ("Love Boat" is not alone in be making another run. The the formula. What a shame this: on "Gilligan's Island," I've • Love Boat promises something that I don't speak a word of the been informed by a reliable for everyone. Set a course for bizarre language of the Indians source, each castaway repre­
1s a many
adventure, your mind on a new of the area, who are my only sented one of the seven deadly romance... and love won't hurt hope for finding the plant." sins.) "Love Boat" taught that anymore; it's an open smile on television is nothing like real a friendly shore. It's Looove! lan Mitchell life. Everything was pre­Welcome aboard, it's love!" Lion Taming dictable and easy on the Love 
splendored thing
Unless you had a set of those Boat, where everyone's eyes strange geeky parents who Gofer: "Yeah, well, you're in meet just the right person from never let you watch anything on cabin 417, on the Lido deck." across the room, where the dia­television except "Nova" and (Dr. Smedley, cursing the logue is so cunningly scripted "Masterpiece Theater," (All fates that have forced him that no one ever runs out of 
Locating lost love? 
right, yes, I DID watch a lot of aboard, lugs two heavy trunks things to say, and where total television growing up, what's it carrying all his precious medi­strangers, even people much, to YOU, pal?) the preceding cal equipment up the attractive much dorkier than you and me, 
Let Uncle Sam help
paragraph probably evoked spiral staircase.) fall in love, had their first ar­c_"f--\ fond memories of Gofer, Issac, Charo: "Ay ay ay, yipa!" gument, buried dead poodles,
?>\ e •Doc, and Cap'n Stubing sailing (Inexplicably, Charo seemed to reconciled, and often got mar­Whether you're looking for an old going back 18 months are on file and on the Pacific Princess. (I omit­be aboard every cruise. Per­ried all the span of an hour. lover, or even a new one this a $1.00 search will provide you with a ted mentioning Julie McCoy and new address. Also for $2.00 your full
haps she was frantically trying Valentine's Day, your Uncle Sam can the Cap'n's daughter Vicki to accumulate enough frequent Real life, as you may have help. service Division of Motor Vehicles Stubing, mainly because: a) sailing miles so that she could discovered, is a little different. Not only will the government tell you located in your state capitol can dig up 
In real life it's harder to meet a person's current address if you have
then I'd have to admit my deep obtain the medical help she so where your old boyfriends, girlfriends, longing for Miss McCoy, who, in desperately needed.) people, it's harder to know ex-wives, husbands or lovers are, it their full name and last known my unbiased teenaged opinion, when you've found the right will also tell you if these lovers are 
addre~\Vant a Love Letter 
was constantly falling for men Shortly thereafter... person, it's harder to force it worth seeing again. 
Forwarded -Forever?
who weren't nearly good The lovely Miss McCoy: through the thick skull of the Government offices can reveal what enough for her, and b) I hated "Welcome aboard, can I have other person that they've found kind of car someone drives, what's the The Social Security Administration Vicki and wanted her dead.) your name please?" the right person (you), it's value of their house, and even provide has the largest database for where (Still do, as a matter of fact.) Miss Snoodleblatt: easier to have arguments and you with a list of the people they owe people are. This office will forward 
"Snoodleblatt, and by the way, harder to reconcile. There's no money to. Matthew Lesko, "The Kind letters to lost loved ones if you can r, Anyway, on the Love Boat, I'm fluent in many bizarre In­laugh track for your jokes nor Of Government Freebies and supply the name and social security I j ( relationships seemed to be dian tongues." any soundtrack to eliminate po­Cheapies," and author of the 5-pound number, or the person's date and about as difficult as falling off tentially embarrassing lulls in sourcebook "Lesko's Info-Power," has place of birth. The Jetter you want 
·. ': !{ 
a log (log-falling-off-of is a no­the conversation. compiled some of the best government forwarded must be sent unsealed, and 
l. toriously easy activity). Two Miss McCoy: "How nice for offices that will help you in your quest you must enclose a letter explaining
i total strangers with nothing in you. And what a lovely poodle In real life, love is harder to for locating your lover. why the enclosed letter should be sent. 
i '' common would come aboard you're carrying, Miss Snoodle­find and easier to lose. But, Contact your local Social Security the ship expecting nothing, and blatt! . I don't think I've ever perhaps because it seems so •Looking for a Soldier? Administration office or Office of the wild winds of fate would seen one colored purple before! rare and difficult, true love is Public Inquires, Room 4100, Annex sweep them into each other's I hope it doesn't get seasick! also special and magical (I The Defense Department will help Building, Attention: Del Dowling, arms: Ha ha!" realize that sounds sappy, but you find a new lover among the men Social Security Administration, Balti­
Gofer: "Welcome aboard, can Now, perhaps you can see there's really no other way to and women serving in the Persian Gulf. more, MD 21235, 301-965-2736. I have your name please?" where this story is going. Gen­put it), and even just the search Send your Jetter to: Any Single • Is Your Lover Doing 
Dr. Smedley: "It's Smedley, erally speaking, if you couldn't for love can, despite all the fi­Serviceman (or Servicewoman), Time? but I really don't know what tell what was going to happen ascoes and disasters, be "a Operations Desert Shield, APO, NY The government's Inmate Locator I'm even doing on this ship, I in an episode of "Love Boat" course for adventure," or at 09848-0006. Hotline will give you the address of a really need to spend all my time after all the passengers had least a fun way to spend a life­loved one who is incarcerated in a in my lab trying to perfect the boarded, you probably had dif­time or two. _•Want a rrent Address? federal correctional institution. serum which cures a rare dis­ficulties with other complex Contact: Public Information, Bureau of ease affecting only purple sea­concepts like "not running into Happy Valentines Day. Any­You can contact your local post Prisons, US Dept. of Justice, 320 First sick poodles. It's just that this things" and "breathing." one out there have an address office for the last known address for St. NW, Room 640, Washington, DC is the only means of trans-Like all television programs, for Julie McCoy? anyone. Change of address records 20536, 202-307-3196. 
I 
A Valentine's Day Guide to the perfect come-ons for any occasion 
"Urn... what's your inseam?" and when questioned, answer, "I was just an apology?" By PAIGE SMORON and CHRIS "Huh?" checking to see if you were really made in At the Mall: LABAREE Maybe your luck would begin to change if heaven." "Know what I'd like to see on you? Me." Accent Writiers you could learn to adapt your lines to your si­At the Dining Hall: 
tuation: "What're you making for breakfast?" At Any Multi-Cultural Event: Tragedy strikes: you realize that the se-"Do you have any Italian in you? Would y«
niors were right when they warned you that For Psyche Majors: For English Majors: like some?" your social life would decline exponentially "I heard you're sexually repressed. Do you "Why don't we rearrange the alphabet so immediately following the Graffiti Party need some therapy?" that U and I can be together?" In the Laundry Room (Co-Ed Night): freshman year. A bleak situation has recently "Tell me your dreams." "You know, your .ieans would look great on
At the Rock:
turned hopeless. Suddenly, your ace in the "You remind me of my mother." my floor."
"Why don't we get out of these wethole, your babe-magnet, your tried-and-true clothes?"
lines, are just not working anymore: For Theater Majors: At the Toastmasters Club: 
"What do you bench?" 
"If I told you you had a beautiful body, "Let's rent movies and let them watch us." "Nice outfit. Can I talk you out of it?~ 
wa­

would you hold it against me?" Recite Kevin Costner's speech from "Bull "You like water sports? I've got a 
terbed..." (SLAP.) 
Durham." To the Freshman Prospect: "What's your sign?" 
For Theology Majors: For Philosophy Majors: "Have you seen the view of the Dome fro "No trespassing -Grab the shirt tag, peer inquiringly, 
"Would you like or do I owe you my bed?" 
~~ 









page 11 





my bed?" by Carly s· 
many 
~ed thing 
lost love? 
Sam help 
j going back 18 months are on file and a $1.00 search will provide you with a new address. Also for $2.00 your full service Division of Motor Vehicles located in your state capitol can dig up 
i, a person's current address if you have their full name and last known 
addre~\Vant a Love Letter Forwarded -Forever? e The Social Security Administration e has the largest database for where e people are. This office will forward d letters to lost loved ones if you can d supply the name and social security d number, or the person's date and .s place of birth. The letter you want t forwarded must be sent unsealed, and ;t you must enclose a letter explaining why the enclosed letter should be sent. Contact your local Social Security Administration office or Office of Public Inquires, Room 4100, Annex p Building, Attention: Del Dowling, 
n Social Security Administration, Balti­lf. more MD 21235, 301-965-2736. e _.Is Your Lover Doing ), Time? 
y The government's Inmate Locator Hotline will give you the address of a loved one who is incarcerated in a federal correctional institution. Contact: Public Information, Bureau of 
;t Prisons, US Dept. of Justice, 320 First lr St. NW, Room 640, Washington, DC Is 20536, 202-307-3196. 
•

any occasion 
an apology?" At the Mall: "Know what I'd like to see on you? Me." 
At Any Multi-Cultural Event: 
"Do you have any Italian in you? Would you like some?" by Harry Connick, 
Jr.
In the Laundry Room (Co-Ed Night): "You know, your .ieans would look great on "Rock Wit'cha" my floor." by Bobby Brown 
"Love Me Tender''
At the Toastmasters Club: "Nice outfit. Can I talk you out of it?" by Elvis 
Anything To the Freshman Prospect: by Chicago or Air "Have you seen the view of the Dome from 
Supply 

Sounds of Love 
3 ways to say "I love you"000 or something close 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
It's Valentine's Day, and last­minute lovers are mobbing the ­-no, not Irish Gardens, not the Fanny Mae display at the Book­store --stereo, to assemble the ultimate expression of their love. This is the musical mas­terpiece with the song you first mashed to at the Commons, with the song you got sick to at your SYR, (with the song you'll probably break up to) ..... 
For your romantic conve­nience, we have compiled for you a list of moving, tender, and hopelessly overused love songs that will not only cut down on the time you spend agonizing over which James Taylor song would be most ap­propriate, but is also guaran­teed to reduce your sweetheart to tapioca pudding. 
Here, then. is 
THE TAPE 
OF LOVE 
"Wonderful Tonight" 
by Eric Clapton 
"In Your Eyes" 
by Peter Gabriel 
"Your Song" 
by Elton John 
"You're In My Heart" 
by Rod Stewart 
"Kiss the Girl" 
by Sebastian 
"Endless Love" 
by Diana Ross I 
Lionel Ritchie 
"Unchained Melody" 
by the Righteous 
Brothers 
"Melt With You" 
by Modern 
English 
"It Had To Be You" 
"Take My Breath Away" 
by Berlin 

"Just Like Heaven" 
by the Cure 

"Every Breath You Take" 
by the Police 

Is your Valentine situation not quite so ideal? Do you lack a mate? Did you read the last section and sob involuntarily as strains of Lionel Ritchie's "Truly" filled your head? How about letting that ex-special someone know you're still thinking of them this Valen­tine's Day by making them a tape entitled 
GOODBYE TO ROMANCE 
"Don't Go Away Mad (Just Go Away)" 
by Motley Crue 

"Misery" 
by the Bodeans 

"You Give Love A Bad Name" 
by Bon Jovi 

"Dead Flowers" 
by the Rolling Stones 

"I Used to Love Her (But I Had To Kill Her)" 
by Guns 'N' Roses 

"Love the One You're With" 
by Crosby, Stills, and Nash 

"Piece of My Heart" 
by Janis Joplin 

"I Know It's Over'' 
or anything else by the Smiths 

"I Don't Care Anymore" 
by Phil Collins 

"Down, Down, Down" 
by Bruce Springsteen 

"Poison" 
by Bel 

"You'-re So Vain" 
"Wild Thing" 
by Sam Kinison 
"Wasted Time" 
by the Eagles 
"Love Stinks" 
by the J. Giles Band 
Another alternative to the conventional mushy love tape is one with a more -pointed ­theme. Are the subliminal "lick me all over" comments you slip into dinner conversation simply not working? Let your partner know that you're tired of play­ing games by popping in a tape 
and GETI'ING DOWN 
"Do Me!" 
by Bel Biv Devoe 
"I Want Your Sex" 
by George Michael 
"Sex (I'm a ... )" 
by Berlin 
"Light My Fire" 
by the Doors 
"Let's Get Physical" 
by Olivia Newton-John 
"Justify My Love" 
by Madonna 
"Sex Farm Woman" 
by Spinal Tap 
"Why Don't We Get Drunk (and Screw)'' 
by Jimmy Buffet 
"Why Don't We Do It In the Road?" 
by the Beatles 
"Me So Horny" 
by 2 Live Crew 
"Love In an Elevator" 
by Aerosmith 
"Shook Me All Night Long" 
by AC/DC 
"If Ya Think I'm Sexy" 
by Rod Stewart 
"Paradise By the Dashboard Light" 



Thursday, February 14, 1991

page 12 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classffieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per clharacter per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NY TIMES, used and new books Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO ave. & Howard 10-5:30 everyday 
WORD PROCESSING -Term papers. reports, letters, etc. Experienced legal secretary. (616) 699-7387. 
SOPHOMORES!!! Are you ready for Advanced Registration beginning April 8 ? Have you selected your major? 
If you answered NO, consider registering for CAREER/MAJOR DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP starting the week of February 18th at the University Counseling Center. Call239-7336 to register or for more information 
SPRING BREAK!!! $136.00 ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE GREYHOUND GOES. RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 
Weekly Prayer Meetings on Thursdays in Siegfried Chapel, 7:30 pm. Interested? Call Eileen x4815 
MISSING: Two bags stolen from a blue station wagon Feb. 9 during B.P.'s formal at the Marriot. One red, one pink­filled w/clothes, books, etc. Any info, please call Megan Thomas at x1884. 
Tired of the protesters? Want to show real support for our troops? Call 289-1321, leave your name & number. 
WORD PROCESSING Low Rates= 277-6091 
LOST/FOUND ]_ 
FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 Nieuland. Call x4530. 
FOUND: Scarf in front of library. Call x4530. 
••••LOST •••• GOLD LINK BRACELET -looks like (XoXoXoX)-IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd FLLIBRARY, OR ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. 
@@@@HELP! HELP! HELP!@@@@ LOST A SINGLE PERAL EARRING SOMETIME LAST WEEK. (9mm)! 
If found please call Beth 
at #2467!11 
WANTED ] 
Summer job interviews -Average earnings $3900. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000­8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for challenging, well­paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Friday, Febnua,Y22nd. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. 

NETWORK MARKETING: NEW ASSOCIATES WANTED. SYSTEM ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS. SUBSTANTIAL PROFIT POTENTIAL. START BUILDING FINANCIAL SECURITY FOR YOUR FUTURE TODAY. FLEXIBLE HOURS. UPPERCLASSMEN, GRADUATE STUDENTS AND STAFF. SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY. 219­291-4722. 
LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO SUB-LEASE APARTMENT OVER SUMMER. CALL BLAIZE X1654 
NEED RIDE FROM LONG ISLAND, NY. back to campus on 3-16 or 3-17. Will pay for gas$$$. Call Mark at 273-9288. 
Student Wanted: Make $2000.00 this semester selling !-shirts and sweatshirts to fraternites and sororities., Southern Marketing 800-444-2708. 
ROCK/DANCE BAND seeks Drummer and Keyboardist. Please call Paul x1355 
[..___FO_R_R_ENT...,...---.J)_ 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to campus. $150/month. Call Paul 287-2159. 
3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, 
Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms 
for 

Graduation weekend. Located at 
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart 
(12 miles from South Bend) 
Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 
deposit per room. Send letter with 
deposit to 3011 
Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, 
IN 46514. 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. 
Prime locations. 233· 
9947. 

FOUR BEDROOMS -TWO BATHS HOUSE, AVAILABLE AUGUST 1. CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL 234-9364. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE : Sound System for bar 
band. In Good Shape. 
Reasonable Price. Call: 

Kevin X3498 or John X1166. 
"2 1 -way airline tickets to San 
Francisco, Feb. 27.· $100 
684-7203." 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. 
Office near campus. 
TICKETS 

INDIGO GIRLS; need 1 ticket; 
call Barb 284-5344 
Wanted N.K.O.T.B tickets for April 
7. Special birthday gift. Please call (219) 465-0101. 
SELL INDIGO GIRLS TIX TO ME FOR BIG $$$$ ...Please! CALL CHRIS AT x1056 
PERSONALS 1­
CLUB 23 

Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 

Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 

Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 

Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
CLUB 23 

Daily Specials. New addition: 
The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. 
IT'S NEW! 
IT'S FREE!! 

Far Side Card Club Buy 11 Far Side Cards and the 12th is Free! 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE 
UPS M-F 12-5 
239-6714 

Coming Soon ... CHEAP CARDS HOW LOW CAN YOU GO? HOW CHEAP CAN YOU BE? THEY'RE GREAT!! 
Your favorite ball players are Mattingly, Sandberg and Puckett, and you probably forgot it was Valentine's Oay.Well, honey I love you anyway. Please be my 
Valentine! 
REM Happy Valentines Day! I'll miss you at the Chicks tonite. Good luck at Burnett. I can't wait for our 70-plus hrs. together. Don't forget the pink umbras and other key items. Hope you don't mind missing six classes. Just don't get anymore bright ideas about Lenten sacrifices. Anyway, best of luck, see you soon, and I LOVEYOO! (embarrassing, eh? You're just lucky I didn't print that your name is GINA MAHONY, SafeWalk chick, campus celebrity, and all-around DT!) 
•••eXPO ROMA••• 
•••EXPO ROMA••• 
•••EXPO ROMA••• 
Come experience the beauty of the art and architecture of Rome, as presented by 4th-year architecture majors. FEB. 14-FEB. 23 at the School of Architecture Bldg. 
•••EXPOROMA""" 
•••EXPO ROMA••• 
•••EXPO ROMA••• 
RIDE NEEDED. To Terre Haute 
or vicinity(IU, Indy ... ) 2115. 
Please call Emily 284-5086 
AnTostal '91 proudly presents: 
THE BAR® 

This wacky and zany AnTostal fund­raiser can earn you a VCR, a dozen pizzas to Barnaby's, or a $50 gift certificate to the NO Bookstore. Every time you purchase the 3oz. Catherine Eisner chocolate bar (Almond or Crunch) for $1 from an AnTostal '91 Rep you increase your chances of winning a Golden Ticket® that could win you one of these valuable prizes. Off-campus & faculty can purchase THE BAR® on the second floor of LaFortune-SUB's reception desk. 
But wait! There's yet another way to win! By simply answering correctly the 3 daily "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory· Questions on a sheet of paper along with your name and phone # and putting it in THE BOX® at the SUB Receptionist's desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune or 1st floor Haggar Hall (SMC) by 5 p.m. (one entry per person per day) you will be entered into a drawing for a hundred dollar bill (that's $1 00)! 
GOOD LUCK! 
Mr. AnTostal 
THE QUESTIONS: 

1) What's so special about Wonka's "Everlasting Gobstoppers"? 
2) Who fell into Wonka's Chocolate River? 
3) What language did the Oompa­Loompas speak? 
Attention Seniors !!!! 
All night basketball torney is coming March 1 . Start getting your four player teams together today and look for more info. next week! Call class office with any ?? from 3-5 Mon.-Fri. 
I need a ride to I.U. Feb 15 Call Missy 2577 $ 
TUNE IN, DROP OUT­DOORKNOB LORE AT CLUB 23 !! SAT. FEB. 16th 10:30 WE CAN PLAN A MURDER OR START A RELIGION 
I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia for Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will enjoy my company. 
To ERICA and JAN, my favorite SMC chicks: I hope you have a happy Valentine's Day. I know you both love me. Very good. Love, your little peter 
hey DANA DEE: how's your WOO? Do you treat it well? Does it treat you well? happy valentine's day, sexy. Love, you know WOO 
To KATHY, KRIS, CRISTIN, LISA, MARGARET, MARIA, JEN, and the spirit of COLLEEN (or, the Lewis a­chick): Have a wonderful Valentine's Day????!!!!! Love, the studs from 80 Grace 
SEARCHING FOR A CAREER? We can help! Quality resume and cover letter duplication. Matching envelopes too. THE COPY SHOP LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER OPEN EVERYDAY!!! 
Jerry, Sig, Joey, John; 
• Wild Women Do And They Don't Regret 11.•.•• But We Couldn't Have Done It With­out You. Thank You For The Funky Times! And The Stein! Happy Valentine's Day! 
love, D,A,T,&D-Chicas in Regina 
Happy Valentine's Day to my one and only sweetheart -my precious -most gentle soul .....and MY l.b. YOU ARE the best Thanx for all your love and support and for making this day and every day so special. I LOVE YOU!!! 
ANNIE CAHILL!!! ANNIE CAHILL! !I 
CONGRATULATIONS!!!! Nobody deserves it more than you!!! Try not to spend it all in one place!!! 
love, Usa, Katie and Amy 
P.S. V\lhen are you taking us out??? 
HEY BUTT! !I! Happy Valentine's Day!! Thanks for a great year. 
love always, Lisa 
P.S. Embellish?? J/K 
TOP TEN THINGS ABOUT FLANNER'S SYR (ACCORDING TO HONEYBUNCHES OF LIPSTICK) 
10. THE SIGN ON THE DOOR BANNING US FROM OPENING IT 
9. COLD POTATO CHIPS THAT TASTE REALLY GOOD 
8. WATCHING CLARKE WALK AROUND IN HIS HIGH LEVEL OF SOBRIETY 
7. DANCING ON COUNTERS WITH A SEDUCTRESS 
6. THE FONG TREATY 
5. RIDING IN A CONVERTIBLE WITH THE TOP DOWN 
4. JELLO 
3. WATCHING "THE LOVE BOAT" 
2. THE FACT THAT A 5-HOUR DANCE TURNED INTO A 16­HOUR MARATHON DATE 
1. BEING WITH MY HONEYBUNCHES OF OATS, PUMPKIN, & THE BOBONATOR 
Shane, Valentine You're always in my heart And on my mind You sure are one of a kind And I hope you'll be mine! 
Happy Valentine's Day! Kelly 
RAE, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! I LOVE YOU! I HOPE THIS IS JUST ONE OF MANY MORE. 
FOREVER YOURS, LOUIS 
Typical N.D. guy who happens to be gay, seeks same for friendship. I have roommates too, so discretion is important. Thanks! MARK, 
P.O. BOX 974, N.D., IN. 46556. 
Photography for Formals-Halls­Dances-ROTC. Call IHS Photography at 234-8539. 
Scruffy, You make me happy. Love, Missy 
STOP THE WAR wear white arm bands 
SUPPORT THE TROOPS BRING THEM HOME NOW wear white arm bands 
IN MOURNING OF THE VICTIMS OF WAR wear white arm bands 
CHRISTOPHER football.phantom.casablanca. 6 o'clock alamns.elvis.what are you thinking?paddington. garter belts. early morning drives.smooches in the brare. hotel nikko. you are so spoiled. superbowl halftime. 
NEVER FORGET i love you 
MR. WONDERFUL, 
It's a GREAT week. I hope you have fun. And keep reminding me it's gonna be a great week. 
THANKS 
Christopher B., Happy Valentines Day, lover. Thanks for more than a great year! See you very soon. XOXOXO, OLD 
Altug, Will you be my valentine? XOXO, ET 
University Allied Publishers, Inc. seeks motivated, entreprenurial students interested in a campus venture. Great resume builder, opportunity for very good money. No capital required. Call David Carlock at (617) 894-5575. 
JESTER JESTER JESTER JESTER JESTER JESTER tonight at Club 23 after the Indigo Girls 
MEP-Peace and love on V-day... You are intensely missed! Be safe, and see you soon · 
-Chris 
I love you Snugglebunnyl 
Snugglebunny I'm going to miss you next year! Thanks for always being there for me! 
Hey Michelle!!-Here it is! Your very own personal ad for Valentine's Day ! Now you can't complain anymore! Have 
. a great day, and never forget that I love you ! ! ! love always -JT 
To all ENGL491A warriors: "All wars are boyish and are fought by boys." words to live (and die) by ..... 
BOYCOTT COORS?? BOYCOTT COORSI BOYCOTT COORS! BOYCOTT COORS! BOYCOTT COORS! 
Anyone seeking a ride to Minniapolis this weekend, call Rene at 273-2078. 
Anyone interested in a ride this weekend to Pittsburgh, please call Tanya at 273-2078. 
Did you forget Valentine's Day? Hurry to Irish Gardens for flowers or balloons for your special someone. 
ANN KOONS Happy Valentine's Day! 
Lots of love I'm thinking of you. Love, KIM 
INDIGO GIRLS... sold out INDIGO GIRLS... sold out 
INDIGO GIRLS ... sold out Doors open at 6:30 PM No line before 5:30 PM 
-No cameras or recording­--{jevices-Thursday Feb.14th at 7:30 sponsored by SUB 
Sisters of Nefertiti present An Expression in Rhy1hm & Rhyme. SMC/ND Students will perform skits. black poetry readings, dance and songs. Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30p.m. SMC's Carroll Auditorium 
Sisters of Nefertiti present An Expression in Rhy1hm & Rhyme SMC/ND students will perform skits, black poetry readings, dance and songs on Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30p.m. SMC's Carroll Auditorium 
3rd Floor St. Ed's ­Here's the personal I promised. Happy V-day! Susan 
Hey Mickey! You're the BEST. Happy Valentine's Day. Love Ya-Minnie P.S.-4 months is only the beginning ...... . 
see CLASS I page 13 

page 13 The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1991 
Owners may lock umpires out of spring training 
NEW YORK (AP) -Richie Phillips, executive director of the Major League Umpires Association, said Wednesday he fears a spring training lockout of umpires by major league owners despite contract negotiations which he described as on schedule. 
"Some owners feel they need to get a win," he said. "They want to send a message to the umpires that just because we gave (big money contracts) to the players, don't think we'll give it to you. There are teams with $30 million payrolls who will fight over who pays for the fertilizer in training camps. They're saying, 'It stops here. 
We draw the line with the play­ers.' They want to dash expec­tations." 
Phillips wrote the umpires last week, warning that a spring training lockout looms as a real possibility. The owners locked players out of spring training for 32 days in a con­tract dispute last year. 
Attorney Robert Kheel, repre­senting the leagues in negotia­tions, was out of town and unavailable for comment. 
The umpires' contract ex­pired Dec. 31 and Phillips said negotiations, underway since the end of last season, are pro­gressing according to schedule. 
The umpires are scheduled to meet Feb. 25-26 in Orlando where Phillips will brief them on the talks. He said that even without an agreement before spring training, he would ad­vise the umpires to continue working. 
"I see no reason for a work stoppage," he said. "I am op­timistic that we can have an agreement before the start of the season. There is a real un­derstanding on both sides on what has to be done and we are going about the business of getting it done." 
Phillips said the umpires have "heightened expectations" for their new contract. 
"You read the papers every day. There are some players who make more than all 60 umpires put together. 
That created heightened expectations. They are dou­bling, tripling, quadrupling salaries for the players. The salary figures evidence an abil­ity to pay in a thriving industry. 
"Every team is getting more than $15 million more than two years ago from the national television package. The rev­enues are enormous. The um­pires realize they are an inte­gral part of the overall product than the leagues market. They make a substantial contribution and they feel they should be compensated commensurate with that contribution in ac­cordance with the revenues be­ing generated." 
Phillips said he had proposed a revised system for the selec­tion of umpires for playoff and World Series assignments. Currently, all umpi_res with more than five years are expe­rience must work playoffs every fourth year and no umpire can work the World Series more than once every four years. Critics have charged that the system forces the leagues to use umpires perceived as less than the best for the showcase events. 
LAURA, Emily, Alison Cocks-Siobhan,
Class 
Happy Valentine's Day. I'll see HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!! Will you please be my valentine? Why oh why have you forsaken my I love you like Club 23 smells like you tonight. Luv ya, HEY ROOMIES-SEND THE If so meet me tonight at love? I want to lay you down on the smoke. Flo
continued from page 12 
John EXTRA FLOWERS MY WAY!!II! 9:30, my place! typesetter and download my font. Annie and Claire -Here's a Have a SUPER day! Yours, Please, do not make me wait any Valentine's message to my two Let's have a party soon ..maybe a DB XOXOX longer! Grandma O'Toole, "roomies". You ARE loved! -Susan Princess Eleanor, shot party -PSYCH or how about a Love and deep tongue kisses, I miss you very much. I hope we 
Happy Valentines Day! trip to the zoo--Your right hand man can go out for some high-balls What is it now .... 3.5? Here's to an SSSS. Cheers! Paige and Shonda, when I come home. Didn't get tickets for the Love, -just random thoughts from a I'm really looking forward to having Love, Johnny Indigo Girls? Vincenzo random valentine -Bethe you hot babes working UNDER me (heh, heh) next year. Aren't you Kathie, Let us provide your lucky. Let's stop denying our feelings and Mom and Dad O'Brien: entertainment ... Love and wet smoochies, Herbie let our passion ignite tonight! Meet Thank you for always being there Lisa, Louis, me at the dock at9:00. lor me. Just think, YOU'RE Come to the Stuent Body Debates You are the coolest OX I know­I am glad we are together for responsible for the way I am Tonight at 7:00 pm WOW' I love you! Keep the faith. Valentine's Day this year. Each day To all the Knobs without valentines: Lustfully yours, (although I wouldn't go bragging Haggar Palor Happy Valentines Day! I spend with you MK about this to anyone) Love Scott makes me love you more and more. Doorknob Lore Loves YOU! Love, Johnny Gilliland''..Murphy'..'Prando Always, 
Pookie Break on through at Hey, Kevity-Kev Rosie O'Palm: Club23, Sat. 10:30. The Kadester Nancy O'Brien, Your there when I need you and I Kademeister You are the greatest sister in the need you often. JOB Jim was the door, Kadearadarada world. Jim is a very lucky man. You -Love. Mike Callan Happy Valentine's Day to you and to but we are the KNOBS! Kaderific really are my favorite sister. 
Valentines all the nosey people reading this. I K-K·kadeo Love, John love you very much and I'm glad Get a pot, yet? C'mon man! P.S. Don't tell Karen and Kathy I you've put up with me so far. I was Happy V Day, Lover said that! 
JENNIFER. also wondering, can you schedule ROBYN SIMMONS JEN'KRISTIN"MAGGIE'LAURIE'K 0. MY LOVES LIKE A RED, RED me in later tonight? I told you al put in a damn personal ATEY: You are the bestest in the ROSE, THAT'S NEWLY SPRUNG K for you! Meet me in ETC and we'll Michael, Kathy O'Brien whole wide world. IWUVYOUALL!!! IN JUNE. do some ROCKIN' I know we've had a rough year, but You are the greatest sister in the 
From ....... The Lovemuffin 0. MY LOVE'S LIKE A ..--Lust, Arther Kent (a.k.a. Herbie) I'm glad we're both happy now. You world. Jim is a very lucky man. You MELODIE, THAT'S SWEETLY SLuG, sure are a bad "puppy"! Happy really are my favorite sister. PLAYED IN TUNE. Hapy Valuntin's Day! Valentines Day!!! Love, John 
Hi Wally! See, I do care. You're the 'TIL THE SEAS GO DRY. MY I Luv You & Mis You Horn Dog, Love, P.S. Don't tell Karen and Nancy I greatest!! DEAR. AND THE ROCKS MELT Edward Bear Happy V-Day! Bubba said that! The B""! WI' THE SUN! Luv Worm 
AND I WILL LOVE THEE STILL. MY DEAR, WHILE THE SANDS 0. Dearest Guppie Lips, Karen O'Brien Phil, LIFE SHALL RUN !I!! I know you can't wait to Tanya, You are the greatest sister in the 
I used to think we chose our oen ONLY 80 YEARS TO GO!I! see me in that Mickey Mouse mask, Nushka, I wish we could be together You are the love of my life, world. Maryland will be lucky to friends. but I wonder now if we ROB but you'll have to wait a few more today. Thank you for all you have All my dreams come true. have you. You really are my favorite really do... For none but God, could hours after the Indigo Girls because given me. I love you. I can't wait til Here's to us, sister. have chosen for me a friend so we are going to see JESTER at the weekend! Happy V-Day ...alt my David Love. John special as you! Happy Valentine's D.K.-thanks for being the election Club 23. Believe me, I'll be worth love, your campus celebrity P.S. Don't tell Nancy and Kathy I Day Buddy! god, even if you hate numbers and the wait! They always make me said that! 
All my love, Nancy 'kings'. here's your valentine, horny!! where's mine? Love, Monica Yant, I want to cover your Ronald Real Women wear black and do not body in oils and herbs and drink you Vinnie and Di, 
accept all the flowers their male up like an exotic tropical drink Congratulations on Joh Ill. Just To my Sweetheart Geetanjali Colleen Mary Ellen (baby), friends send them. And if they do, Love, An admirer in Morrissey think, I'll have fodder for another Those Beautiful Sparkling Eyes. Welcome back from Russia! KATHY ROE, Time spent with you they will never see the Snakin' Moo column come October! that Divine Smile and your never­Happy Valentines Day!! is more precious than words can Moo Gusher again !I! Love, John ending LOVE for me, has given my Love, say. I hope our relationship grows Happy Valentine's Day, Life a new meaning. I love you Sean to be the same. I wish you the best more than anything in this entire on this holiday of love. Your To all the "nerds" in 634 and Larissa Wenning JEANNIE BLASI: If you continue to Universe. Happy Valentines Day. Admirer. 648 PE-Happy Valentines Day insert untruths about my (lack of) Hugs. kisses and smiles for you Thanks mucho for always love life in the personals, I will be from To the most special man in being so sweet to me-"T" forced to announce (in print)'the Yours Jannu Ajay the world-JEFF: sorrid details of your animalistic 
You've stolen my heart se~ual past. Consider this a I long to be with you xo xo xo xoxo xo xo xo xo To my little sea nymph, Valentine's Day warning. Love and And though we're apart To Elizabeth Agnes Fletcher: Dear Witselberger, Thank you for such a wonderful Kisses, MONICA 
SHNOOKUM-NOOKUMS-Happy I know we'll be together soon! "Have I told you lately that I love Happy Valentines Sweetie! year (so far at least). Here's a little Valentines Day, I LOVE YOU!!! Happy Valentine's Day you? Have I told you there's no one Here's to many more to come! montage of memories from our time 
Love. Erin above you? Fill my life with Love ya-McSzon together: GORGEOUS (AND CLUELESS) gladness, take away my sadness, The Knights.. "behind the sheet, • BILL BORGO&­ease my troubles that's what you the desk, the kitchen, "photos." the WILL YOU BE MY VALENTINE? 
Dave. Happy Valentine JAR, do." beach, BOONES, ice, whipped I DARE YOU TO GUESS MY Thank you for sharing your secret I hope you have a special day Thanks for being my valentine, my cream and baby oil, roses, boxers. IDENTITY. with me. and I love you with all my heart. I hero, my girlfriend, and my best Dear Christopher (Siuggo), late-night-walk-me-home xoxo Happy Valentine's Day! want you to know I will always love friend. I'm so proud of you & just You mean more to me each day! smooching, picking up friends at the Love Chrissy you ... Forever! want to tell the stars above.../ LOVE Thanks for being mine. South Shore, Purdue, Sam Cooke, 
Love. T YOU SOOOOO MUCH, PAALLIE Love, Beth "Burritos as big as your head." The LISA EATON (and I always will) Love, Stephen Nutcracker, room service, THE Just because your parents are here xo xo xo xo xo xo xo xo xo BACKER, smooching, BL's, Butch n· doesn't mean we can't go to Motel 6 xo Betty, Finals, study breaks, MSU, as we had planned. Please, you 
Kath and Steph: You are the best Russ, our 11 :00 on TIH, Miami Marathon. must tell them about our child 
Iitties in the wholewideworld, and I love you with all my heart. and on and on and on .... before they find out from Kara. I I'm just pleased as punch to be your I'm yours forever to make Looking for a good Valentine gift? Anyway, sweetie, Happy Valentine's want you, I need you, I love you. 'big' (even if you do take pancakes. JOE ROBERTS and PLAIDMAN are Irish Gardens has flowers, balloons, Day. I love you very much. Love and many pictures. incriminating photos of me and Love you, the two koolest Otters I know. I love and Valentine's cards. Hurry in! Love. Andrew make gross noises in hotel rooms ... ) La Primavera you bunches, especially when you Your little boy from M-Land happy valentine's day. listen to me being gross about 'girl 
stuff'. Thanks for putting up with my This whole holiday is nothing but a SUBES-'handicap' during Drinktionary ...and Dear Scott, Doug, fabrication by the Hallmark people. Dear Frankie, BE MY BROWN EYED GIRL! for watching me drown my sorrows. Well, even tho you signed up for Why don't you tell me what YOU and the FTD gang, and Merlin 
Happy Valentine's Day. NEED With big wet smooches on Genius People Orgo and 37 hrs of think? Olsen and his entire wretched band. hope we get the chance to I WRITE DOWN HOW I FEEL? valentine's day-monicababe lab per week, and you play with Love, and everybody at MichaelAngelo's, make up for our lost weekend­YOU'RE THE GREATEST!! mice all the time, and you only tell Ster because roses don't cost $5 at any too bad you're not still18! SEAGRAMS me you love me 5 or 6 times a day... other time of the year. so don't give I love you this much ... ... 1 still love you. Imagine that! this crap about how they're out of 
Love. Dumpy Dearest Terese-Happy Valentine's Day! To my lovely London Lewis friends­season, because you know as well GIL, You are the love of my life, Love. Joanna Have a wonderful Valentine's Day. I as I do that it's nothing but an CONGRATS ON YOUR BIG The apple of my eye, hope you get lots of flowers from elaborate ruse to snare PROMOTION. GIVE ME A RAISE! And the captor of my soul. others, because you're getting none unsuspecting young men into 
DearK. SERIOUSLY I'M HOT FOR YOUR (Oh... and you're a pretty from me. spending too much money. 3 Valentine's Days and still BODY!!!! great friend too.) Dear Marc. With much love. casual... thanks tor all you do! -ANONYMOUS Flo Amanda, Kelly, Kara, Eileen, Beth. You're the Best! The dream lives on... Surprise! I miss you! Will Eileen. Jules. Christina, Nicole, 
Love, DAVE KENNEDY, Love you be my Valentine? Ann, Shannon. and CYN, hope your 
J THOUGH I DON'T DESERVE Chris Liza Bourdon, I want to smooch every Valentine wish comes true. YOUR LOVE, I HOPE YOU WILL Love, -C your BL's! Love, Melissa ACCEPT MY LOVE AND Love. Garth Brooks P.S. Remember. there are only 3 DEVOTION. LOVE, GINGER kinds of men in this world!/ II 

····-·~ .' ., ...-._.. .• c i r t:~.·,l·rJ·~ J'·" s1.iJ ·! ,..~.. t··l .:J!~''J,· t' .~, -~~; :.;_.~ ~r,•lr.,fJ..-"'" 
Thursday, February 14, 1991

page 14 Scoreboard 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams tared Wednesday: 
t. UNLV (20-0) did not play. 
2. 
Ohio State (20-1) did not play. 

3. 
Arl<ansas (24·2) beat Texas Tech 87-69. 

4. 
Indiana (22·2) did not play. 

5. 
Duke (22·4) beat Davidson 74-39. 

6. 
Arizona (204) beat Arizona State 71-50. 

7. 
Syracuse (21·3) did not play. 

8. 
Nonh Carolina (18-4) beat Wake Forest 8!>-70. 

9. 
Southern Misslsslppl (18·2) did not play. 

10. 
East Tenn811888 State (21·3) did not play. 

11. 
Kanaaa (18-4) did not play. 

12. 
New Mexico State (18-2) did not play. 

13. 
St. John's (17·5) beat Bo&ton College 66-60. 

14. 
Utah (22·2) did not play. 

15. 
UCLA (17-5) did not play. 

16. 
Kentucky (18-5) beat Tennessee 85-74. 

17. 
Nebraska (204) beat Iowa State 6!>-57. 

18. 
Geotgeeown (1!>-7) did not play. 

19. 
VIrginia (18-7) beat Fairfield 84-52. 

20. 
LSU (16-7) beat Auburn 98-61. 

21. 
Oklahoma State (17·5) beat Oklahoma n·74. 

22. 
Pfttsburgh (17-8) did not play. 

23. 
Mississippi State (16-6) beat Mississippi 84-n. 

24. 
Texas (17-5) did not play. 

25. 
Princeton (16·2) did not play. 


AP INDIANA TOP 20 
1. Gary Roosevelt (20-1) idle. 2.(Tie) Mattinsvile (18-1) vs TH Noflh Fri; al Colu!Tbus East Sal. 
2.(Tie) Bedford N. L8Wf81l<» (17·1) vs Evanavile Central Fri. 
4. lrtelc* Brebeut (17·1) at lndpll Roncall Fri. 
s. WMhlngton c.ahollt: (18-0) defeated Tecu11'11eh 86-81 Tu.; at Ev.North Fri. 
8. Muncie Central (1 !>-2) at Marion Fri; vs ln¢18 Tech Sal. 
7. 
Concon1 (14-2) at New Prairie Frl; vs Ekhalt M-iaiSal. 

8. 
TH South (16-2) defeated S.Vermlllion ~ Tu.; at Evanavile 8oaM Frl 

9. 
Mlt:I1.City Eleton (16-2) Ill No.13 S.Bend Riley Fri. 

10. 
Munclot South (16-2) vs Andenon Madison HILFrl. 

11. 
Jelt8111onvile (16-2) aJ Shetly Co., Ky. Frt. 

12. 
Warsaw (16-1) defeated NorihWood 118-58 Tuea; va Gary Will Thur.. 

13. 
S.Bend Riley (17·2) vs No.9 Mlt:h.City Elston 


Frl 
14. 
Anderson Highland (1 !>-3) defeated lndple Clllhedral 85-51 Tuea; vs Noblesville Fri. 

15. 
E.Chicago Central (14-4) defeated Michigan City Rogers 108-70 Tuea, a1 MerrllivHie Sat. 


18. Manchester (18.0) a1 Norihtield Fri. 
17. 
Andrean (14·3) defeated Hammond Clall< 79-59 T uea; vs Hammond Morton Fri. 

18. 
MI.Vernon (Hancock) (16-3) aJ N­


Palestine Fri. 19. Vlncennet1 (1!>-3) a1 EvansviRe Memorial Fri. 
20. lndpla Ben Davia (1 !>-5) aJ Decatur Central 
Frl 
TRANSACTIONS 
AUTO RACING 
MARLBORO GRAND PRIX MEADOWLANDS­Announced the resignation ot Frank Yodice, director. Named Michael Bidwell director. 
BASEBALL ArMrlc:en League 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms wkh Luitl Polonia, outfielder, on a on&-year contract. 
Ndonal League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms wkh Glenn WUaon, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms wkh Dave Hollins, third baseman; Tony Longmire, outfielder, and Chuck Malone, pitcher, on on&-year contracts. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms with Mike Benjamin, Tony Perezchlca and Andres Santana. Infielders, and Rick Parlier, outfielder, on on&-year contracts. 
BASKETBALL Liberty Basketball Associallon DETROIT DAZZLERS-Named larry Jones assistant coach. 
FOOTBALL Ndanel Footbel La~gue 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Named Stan Jones defensive line coach. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Extended the contract ot George Seifert, coach, two years through the 1993 season. Named Carmen Policy president. 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Named Floyd Peters defensive coordinator and defensive line coach. Arena Footbell 
ARENA FOOTBALL-Announced the addition ot franchisetl In Orlando, Fla.; Columbus, Ohio; and Chicago. Announced the P~tsburgh Gladiators have relocated to Tampa. Fla. ­
COLUMBUS-Named Dave Whinham coach. WOftd I..Hgue of Arnorialn Foolbel 
SACRAMENTO SURGE-Named Lannie Julias player personnel consuttant and Michael Weston offensive assistant coach. 
HORSE RACING 
NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION­Announced the resignation ot Steve Schwartz, director of media relations. 
SOCCER National Professional Soccer League 
ATLANTA ATIACK-Traded Franklin Mcintosh, mldflelder, to the Hershey ll'f1l8CI tor Larry JuKus, defender. 
COU£GE FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON-Named Maat Recanati women's voReyball coach. PITTSBURGH-Named Tim Wilson strength coach. SETON HALL-Announced Marco Lokar, guard, has qui the basketbaH team to play in haly. SOUTHERN CAL-Named Bob Cope defensive backs coach. 
TOLEDO-Announced the resignaJion ot Nick Saban, football coach, In order to become defensive coordinator ol the Cleveland Browns. Announced thai Dean P-. defensive coordinator, had bean appointed Interim coach. 
TULSA-Announced the resignation ot Dan Rocco, outside linebackera coach, to become defensive ina coach Ill Boston College. 
UC IRVINE-Announced the resignation ol Bill Mulligan, basketball coach, ettective at the end o1 theaeuon. 

NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
AIM"otlc Oivieion 

w L Ptl QJ LtO Boston 36 12 .750 7-3 Philadelphia 25 22 .532 10 112 3·7 New Vorl< 21 27 .438 15 4·6 Washington 21 28 .429 15 112 3-7 N-Jersey 15 34 .306 21 112 2·8 Miami 13 35 .271 23 3·7 Cemnl DivWon Chicago 33 14 .702 6-4 Detro~ 34 18 .680 112 7-3 Milwaukee 30 19 .612 4 3-7 Atlanta 26 23 .531 8 2·8 Indiana 20 28 .417 13 112 5-5 Cleveland 17 32 .347 17 4·6 Charlone 15 33 .313 18 112 3·7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
~Divleion 

w L Ptl QJ L10 
San Antonio 33 13 .717 7·3 
Utah 32 16 .667 2 6-4 
Houston 27 22 .551 7112 7-3 
Dallas 17 29 .370 16 5-5 
Minnesota 16 30 .346 17 3·7 
Orlando 15 33 .313 19 5-5 
Denver 14 32 .304 19 7-3 
Pacilc lllvlolon 

Portland 40 9 .816 8-2 LA !.akers 35 12 .745 4 9·1 Phoenix 31 16 .660 8 6-4 Golden State 27 20 .574 12 6-4 Seante 22 24 .478 16 112 5·5 LA Clippers 15 33 .313 24 112 2·8 Sacramento 14 32 .304 24 112 4-6 
Tueay·aa.... Charlotte 1 00, Dallas 92 New York 114, Indiana 110 Cleveland 94, M iaml 78 Orlando 129, Denver 122 Phoenix 99, LA Lakers 95 Chicago 122, Atlanta 113 San Antonio 102, Washington 92 Utah 113, Houston 92 Boston 114, Seattle 111 Golden State 126, Minnesota 105 Potttand 121, Philadelphia 106 Sacramento 103, LA Clippers 101 
~y'aGalmee 

Late Game Not Included Cleveland 95, DaMas 93 Indiana 105, Detroit 101 New Jersey 140, Atlanta t 06 Minnesota at LA Lakers, (n) 
n...doy'a Gom&a Denver at Miarri, 7:30p.m. Chicago aJ New Vorl<, 7:30p.m. Seattle a1 Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Washington at Houston, 8:30p.m. Detroit at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Phoenix at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Boston at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Sacramento, 10:30 o.m. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams tared Wednesday: 
1. 
Virginia (22·1) did not play. 

2. 
Penn State (21·1) did not play. 

3. 
Georgia (21·2) did not play. 

4. 
Tennessee (21-4) beat DePaul 105-43. 

5. 
Auburn (20-3) did not play. 

6. 
Purdue (19-2) did not play. 

7. 
North Carolina State (20-4) did not play. 

8. 
Western Kentucky (20-1) did not play. 

9. 
Arl<ansas (20-3) did not play. 

10. 
Washington (17·3) did not play. 

11. 
Stanford (17·4) did not play. 

12. 
LSU (17-5) did not play. 

13. 
Rutgers (1 9-3) did not play. 

14. 
Mississippi (18·5) beat Mississippi State 7!>­


57. 

15. 
Connecticut (20-3) beat Seton Hall 80·59. 

16. 
Texas (16-6) beat Rice 87-50. 

17. 
Providence (20-4) lost to St. John's 90-89. 

18. 
UNLV (18-5) did not play. 

19. 
Northwestern (1!>-6) did not play. 

20. 
Notre Dame (17-4) cld not play. 

21. 
Stephen F. Austin (17·3) did not play. 

22. 
Iowa (13-7) did not play. 

23. 
Clemson (16·7) did not play. 

24. 
Long Beach State (14-7) did not play. 

25. 
Florida State (17-4) did not play. 


NHL STANDINGS  
WALES CONFERENCE  
Petrick lllvlalon  
StrMk  Home  A-y  Coni  w  L  T  I'll  ~  Gill  Home  Away  Div  
Won4  23-4  13-8  23-9  NY Rangers  30  20  9  69  220  183  17-8-5  13-12-4  11·7·3  
Lost 1  17·7  8-15  19-12  Philadelphia  28  26  6  62  197  187  1!>-12·4  13-14·2  9-11-5  
Wont Lost 1 Wont Lost 1  10-14 14·8 10-14 9-15  11·13 7-20 5-20 4-20  12-16 13-17 10-19 7-23  Pittsburgh New Jersey Washington NY Islanders  29 24 27 19  25 24 28 31  3 10 3 8  61 58 57 46  242 206 189 168  216 193 193 210  18-11·1 16·7·6 1!>-11·2 11-1!>-5  11-14·2 8-17-4 12-17·1 8-16-3  14-10-0 8-12·5 14·1 1-1 7-12-4  
Adorna lllvlalon  
Won3  19-3  14·11  20-7  Boston  35  18  8  78  230  198  21·7·3  14-11·5  15-7-3  

Lost2 Lost1 Lost 2 Wont Won2  21-4 22·3 18·6 1!>-8 11-14  13-12 8-16 8·17 !).20 6-18  23-8 19-11 16-17 13-17 11-18  Montreal Hartford Buffalo Quebec  32 26 22 12  22 26 23 36  6 6 13 10  70 58 57 34  209 186 170 189 205 200 167 257  
Wont  11-14  4-19  9-21  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Norrie Divlelcin  
w  L  T  I'll  ~  Gill  
Streak Won2  Home 20-5  A-y 13-8  Coni 22·8  St. Louis Chicago Detro~  34 35 26  16 19 29  7 4 5  75 74 57  225 180 193 152 210 223  
Won2  22-4  10-12  22·8  Minnesota  19  32  10  48  192 215  
Lost 1  17-7  1().15  16·15  Toronto  15  37  6  36  169 243  
Lost 2 Lost 2  11-12 1H1  6-17 !).19  10-19 11-21  Smythe Divialon Los Angeles 31  19  7  69  236 185  
Won4  13-12  2·21  11-21  Calgary  30  21  6  66  230 180  
Lost2  11·12  3-20  6-23  Edmonton  28  26  3  59  199 192  
Winnipeg  21  31  9  51  199 215  
Wont  2!>-2  1!>-7  23·7  Vancouver  20  34  5  45  175 232  
Lost 1  20-4  1!>-8  21-9  
Wont Wont Lost 1  19-4 17-4 1!).7  12-12 10-16 7-17  20-10 17-14 10-16  Wedrwedlly'a Galmes Minnesota 6, Buffalo 6, tie Hartford 6, Detroit 2  
Lost& Won2  11·10 13-11  4·23 t-21  11-18 10-21  Boston 7, Montreal 4 N.Y. Rangers 6, New Jersey 3  
Friday' a Gan.e  Philadelphia 6, Toronto 3  
Milwaukee at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Denver al New Jersey, 7:30p.m. New York at Cleveland, 8 p.m. Washington at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Minnesota at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Boston at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Utah at Portland, 10:30 p.m.  nu.dey'a Gwnea N.Y. Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Winnipeg at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Quebec at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. Los Angeles a1 Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. St. Louis at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.  
Friday'• Galnwe  
Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m.  
Hartford at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.  
Washington at Calgary, 9:35p.m.  

NCAA SCORES 
EAST 

Bridgeport 86, S. Connecticut 72 Bucknell69, Amny 51 Carnegie-Mellon 71, Thiel 68, OT Delaware 73, Md..BaJtimore County 68 
Dickinson 76, Moravian 61 Drexel 78, Towson St. 75 Edinboro 93, Slippery Rock 73 Fordham 79, Lafayette 71 Franklin Pierce 74, New Hampshire Colt. 65 Gallaudet 61, Catholic U. 60, OT Green Mountain 78, Castleton St. 69 Hamitton 73, ROChester 52 Lehigh 100, Colgate 81 New Haven 83, Sacred Heart 72 Ramapo 98, Jersey Cny St. 70
NHL BOXES Rutgers 95, St. Joseph's 87 
Rutgers-Newarl< 79, Montclair St. 77 Detron o 1-2 Scranton 54, FDU-Madiaon 51 Hartford 1 3 2~ St. Bonaventure 86, Cantsius 78 
First Period-1, Hartford, Verbeek 30 (Brown, St. John's 66, Boston College 60 Francis), 7:12. St. Michael's 85, Qulnniplac 83 Second Perlod-2, Detroit, Probert 12 (Marsh, Temple 69, Penn St. 59 
Chabot), 8:15. 3, Hartford, Krygier 9 (Evason, Vermont 75, New Hampshire 71 Sldorklewicz), 13:14. 4, Hartford, Francis 19 Williams 78, Trinity, Conn. 43 (Brown), 14:17. 5, Hartford, Francis 20 (Verbeek, Wooster 75, Allegheny 61 
Samuelsson), 15:50. Third Period~. Detroit, Chabot 5 (Racine, 
SOUTHWEST Primeau), 7:18 (pp). 7, Hartford, Francis 21 (Burt, 
Arl<ansas 87, Texas Tech 69 Shaw), 9:49 (pp). 8, Hartford, Verl>eak 31 (Francia, 
Baylor 77, Texas Christian 75, OT Brown), 15:26. 
Oklahoma St. n, Oklahoma 74 Southern Math. 68, Texas A&M 62 At New Vorl< N-Jersey 0 2-3 
FAR WEST N.Y. Rangers 2 3 1~ 
Arizona 71, Arizona St. 50 First Pertod-t, New Jersey. Maclean 33 
Colorado 85, Kansas St. 71 (Sundstrom, Driver), 7:40 (pp). 2, New York, 
19-10-2 13-12-4 12-8-3 1!>-12·3 11·14-3 7-10-3 1 1-10·8 11-13-5 6-10-5 6-18·7 6-18·3 6-11-6 
Home A-y Dlv 17-6-5 17-10-2 13-7·2 18·7-2 17-12·2 14·6·1 21-10-0 !>-19-5 11-1 1·2 12·14·4 7-18·6 6-13-3 10·20·2 !>-17·4 7·14·2 
17·7·4 14-12·3 10-7·4 15-7·1 1!>-14·5 11-6-3 17-10-1 11-16·2 10-10-2 13-13-4 8-18·5 8·6·5 1 1-13·3 9-21·2 7-17·0 
SOUTH Alabama 66, Vanderbi" 55 
American U. 75. William & Mary 70 Duke 74, Davidson 39 Ferrum 70, Greensboro 50 Florida A&M 89, Fia International 61 
Florida St. 113, Alabama St. 86 Furman 75, Wofford 62 Howard U. 1 14, Md.-E. Shore 80 Kentucky 85, Tennessee 74 LSU 98, Auburn 61 Maryland 96, Georgia Tech 93 Mississwi St. 84, Mississippi 77 
N. Carolina St. 90, Robert Morris 86 North Carolina 85, Wake Forest 70 Richmond 9 I. Navy 72 Roanoke 74, Lynchburg 66 Rollins 69, Tampa 55 Virginia 84. Fairfield 52 Virginia Tech 72, Louisville 56 
MIDWEST Ball St. 71, Miami. Ohio 68 Bowling Green 79, Youngstown St. 64 DePaul 102, Loyola, Ill. 67 Denison 85, Kenyon 69 
E. Michigan 94, Cent. Michigan 58 Indiana St. 64, S. Illinois 60 Kent St. 67, W. Michigan 47 Nebraska 65, Iowa St. 57 Oberlin 76, Case Western 70 Ohio U. 68, Toledo 55 Rosary 75, Trln~y Christian 69 Rose-Hulman 77, Wabash 63 SE Missouri n, Pittsburg St. 67 Wittenberg 90, Ohio Wet1tyn 58 

Nicholls 22 (Patrick, Turcotte), 9:48 (pp). 3, New York, Miller 14 (Munen), 10:ll9. 
Second Period-4, New Rangers, Janssens 5 (Leetch, Mallette), 2:28. 5, New Vorl<, Ganner 32 (Palrlck), 7:14 (pp). 6, New York, Ogrodnick 23 
American He_art -~,:-.*¥. 
(Miller, Patrick), 11:18 (pp). 
Assoc1at1on \&t ···.: , 

Third Period-7, New Jersey, Kasalanov 8 
···~' 

(Shanahan, Stastny), 10:30. 8, New Jersey. Brown 8 (O'Connor, Morris), 10:42. 9, ;N~e~w:..:Y~o:rk~,~::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:;;;;;;;;;;:;-;
Sheppard 22 (Mallette, Mullen), 15:31 ~pp). 
Saint Mary's students: 
•2 
American Airlines tickets 

•Free 
long distance calls


Win! 

•Gift 
certificates 

•A 
variety of other prizes 


Volunteers are needed for the 
College's Spring Phonathon Feb. 17-28 (Sun-Thurs.), 6-10 p.m. Third Floor, Haggar College Center 
Assist for just 2 hours any night and have a chance at winning one of more than 50 Individual prizes and awards! 
For more information, call The Division of College Relations, 284-4706 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 
SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS 
ARE YOU INTERI!STED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AN ACCOUNT FOR $410,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASUREH. 
fHE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
-STUDENT GOVERNMENT -STUDENT UNION BOARD -HALLS -CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE 3'!1'\Ulll>IEN'!J' IMJ>IIl>W 'll'ffilEJ}.~UJilUE!n THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY'S OFFICE 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8-5:00 PM; DUE ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, BY 4:00PM. 
QUESTIONS, CALL 139·'7411 
Thursday, February 14, 1991 
The Observer page 15 
The Lord's promise is that He is in our midst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened hy this conviction, we beseech the Risen Christ to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen of Peace, to intercede for us and for the peoples of our time... (The Challenge of Peace, 11 292) 
A CALL TO PRAYER FOR PEACE 
This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special Mass for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1991-5:15 P.M. Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Presider 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in this 
Jed Aldridge  Tom Cummings  Dennis Hollingshed  John Mullane  Tim Shanahan  
Mark Alveear  Jamie Deets  Kipper Hull  Thomas Mullen  Kevin Sheehan  
Andrew Ankrom  John Demma  Allen Hunt  Neil Mulligan  Simon Shimble  
Rick Badger  Peter Deperro  James Jenista  Kenneth Murphy  James Van Sickland  
Kyle Bain  Sean Dillon  Russ Jenkins  Peter Murphy  Jim Sieth  
Peter Barlock  Barney Dodd  Jeff Johansen  Pete Najera  Mike Sly  
Andy Barlow  Jason Domoleczney  Bruce Jones  Dennis Navarre  Michael Spitz  
Brandy Bartolone  Rev. Wm. Dorwart, CSC  Mike Jones  Arthur Navarro  Brett Steele  
Todd Bentley  Tommy Duke  Patrie Kelleher  Steve Neary  Michael Stefanchik  
Joseph Bile  Tommy Dyke  Niel Keohne  Kevin O'Brien  Danny Stoeffel  
David Blain  Peter Van Es  Mike Knott  Jerry O'Connor  Greg Stricklin  
Eric Bohdan  Dianne Fain  Giovanni Kotority  Emmett O'Hare  Anthony Sullivan  
William J. Bolt  Allan Feany  Jeff Kozlovich  Michael O'Leary  Joe Sullivan  
Brian Bott  Janet Fierst  Denny Krembel  Odie Van Opdorp  Jerome Swanson  
Michael Box  Andrew Fontaine  John Lanan  Benjamin Pa_r1gelinan  Joseph A. Swider  
Michael Boyd  David Frenzel  John Paul Larkin  Steve Peeler  Bill Szalay  
Joey Brenner  David Gagnon  Matthew Laven  Scott Peters  Mark Szkudlarek  
Chuck Broderick  Brian Gannon  Paul Leeds  Andrew Peterson  Pat Timon  
Prue Brownley  Dozier Gardner  '  Brad Linsley  Kevin Poling  Steve Tomaso  
Joe Bystedt  Sean Garret  Simon Lissner  Tom Porter  Kelly Townsend  
Bill Caniano  Jim Gass  Gregory Scott Littlejohn Mark Rakow  George Uzarralde  
John Carey  Mark Gatto  Randy Livingston  Peter Read  Andrew Vogt  
Joseph Carino  Carl Gebo  George Logdson  Kathleen Regan  Jimmy Wagner  
Pat Carr  George N. Gee  Jeff Lowe  Sean Reilly  Jason Wallin  
Curtiss Carter  John Gerth  John Lriesdale  Todd Reilly  Chris Wallis  
Andy J. Cernicky  Beau Giggy  Ronnie Mack  Johnathan Reinebold  Don Warmke  
Jim Chapple  Jim Gillen  Brian Maher  Brian Rixon  Chuck Wehnes  
Robert Chrobot  Reginald D. Glen  Scott Manning  Tim Royston  Tim White  
Tim Ciesialka  James Goebel  William Marchant  Elizabeth Ruiz  David Williams  
Steve Clear  Steven Gonzales  Pat Markivitch  Brad Sandars  John Winkler  
Gregory Cleary  Paul Goodman  Javier Martinez  Dan Scarnavack  Phil Wirsing  
Danny Cluxton  Mary Pat Govekar  Vic Masserelli  Matt Scarnavak  Pete Witty  
Michael Coates  Joey Graber  Bob McCarthy  Tom Scheetz  Peter Woodmansee  
Patrick Collins  Chris Hashem  Kelly McGinley  Lee Sheley  Alex Wojicki  
John Coniffe  John Hayes  Scott Mcintyre  Michael Schierberl  John Yaninek  
Philip Coghlan  Peter Haynes  Matt McKenna  Brian Schiller  Frank Zimmerman  
Marty Cox  Bob Heinke  Marty McNicholas  Dan Schneider  Roger Zuidema  
Steve Cox  Bob Henks  Joel Miller  Martin Schubert  
Brett Crenwelge  Edward Hiar  Jeff Mirer  Terry Schwemper  
Jean Crutcher  Patrick Hirl  Paul Moberly  Joe Schweninger  
Jack Cunningham  Mice Holguin  Teddy Molina  Marty Sears  

Please let us know of additional names missing from this list. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 103 Hesburgh Library 

----~~ ~------.. 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1991 
Brawl will test NCAA rule 
Lokar quits Seton Hall in response to flag incident 
CHICAGO (AP) -Schools and athletic conferences share the responsibility for suspending players for fighting during a game, the NCAA said Wednesday. 
The rule is being tested by a bench-clearing brawl Tuesday during a game between Illinois State and Chicago State. Two players from Chicago State and one from Illinois State were ejected for fighting. 
The rule states that any player ejected for fighting must sit out the team's next game. Second-time offenders are sidelined for the rest of the season and cannot participate in postseason play. 
"The rule is in the basketball rules book, so the NCAA national office has nothing to do with it," NCAA communications director James Marchiony said. "Like any other game violation, it's for the game officials and the schools to resolve." 

The NCAA gets involved only if the rule in question is listed in the NCAA Manual, Marchiony said. This might involve violations of recruiting and scholarship rules or unwarranted bonuses to players. 
Chicago State, an indepen­dent. and Illinois State, a mem­ber of the Missouri Valley Conference, will abide by the rule and suspend the players ejected for fighting, officials of the universities said. But it re­mains unclear what would hap­pen if the schools decided to ig­nore the rule. 
Gene Bartow, chairman of the NCAA's Basketball Rules Committee, said a school might be banned from postseason play for ignoring the rule, but he acknowledged there was no clear precedent to deal with these cases. 
"I don't think there's any doubt a team would pay some-
me and my wife, Lara, so that our life has become very diffi­cult here. 
"In order to complete her pregnancy in tranquility and peace (which is more important than anything else to us) we have decided to return to our hometown, Trieste," said Lokar, who was not available to comment on the statement. 
Coach P.J. Carlesimo and athletic director Larry Keating expressed sorrow that the flag flap prompted the sophomore guard to leave school, but said he would be welcome to return next year. The scholarship re­mains intact, they said. 
"It's very disappointing and sad that the circumstances 
~--tAtaJ
.nrn 
~FINE­
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
Bring your parents to the Polo Club for an evening of fine dining and later dance to the SO's and 60's music of PHAZES. 
Make your reservations today! 289-7656 1345 N. Ironwood Drive South Bend 
how for ignoring the rule. I'm sure they'd end up being pun­ished," said Bartow, athletic director and basketball coach at Alabama-Birmingham. 
Bartow said he was certain conference officials have ad­vised referees to be especially cautious about ejecting players for fighting. 
"We will definitely follow the rules of the NCAA. There's no second thought about that," Chicago State athletic director AI Avant said. "We don't want to be an outlaw school." 
Avant said other teams might shy away from playing the Cougars if the school ignored the rule. 
Game officials ejected 11 Chicago State players -eight for leaving the bench, two for fighting and one for an un­sportsmanlike act. One Illinois State player was ejected for fighting. 


evolved and he has to go back," Carlesimo said Wednesday. "It's sad that he can't stay here and do what he wants to do because of concerns for the child." 
The controversy surrounding Lokar had its roots in a decision by 12 members of the team in mid-January to put U.S flags on their uniforms. Only Lokar, one of three foreigners on the team, refused. · 
"From a Christian standpoint I cannot support any war, with no exception for the Persian Gulf War," Lokar said in his statement. "I have heard many people saying that the flag should be worn in support of the troops and not in support of 
~ 
0 

the war. This is a foolish ar­gument. The troops are in the gulf fighting a war!" 
Lokar's refusal to wear the flag went unnoticed for four games, two of which he played in a substitute jersey after his was stolen. 
However, people seemed to notice the flag's absence on his uniform on Jan. 29 at Providence. Stories were writ-
Love, Steve, Paul, Mike, Rich, Todd, Kevin, the 
Beets Bros., jim & Spike, A.C., Aggs, Chris & john, and THE SMELLY QUINT 
ten, and Lokar said only that it was a personal decision. 
The flag flap escalated just before the Feb. 2 game against St. John's at Madison Square Garden in New York City. . 
The night before the game, Carlesimo said Lokar got a telephone call from his wife, saying that she had been receiving threatening calls. 


SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
SAT., FEB.16, 8 P.M.•MOREAU HALL LITTLE THEATRE 
South Bend Chamber Singers A Solo Recital 
$6/$5 

JAN. 25-FEB. 26, MOREAU HALL GALLERIES•ADMISSION FREE 
Marilyn Lysohir, ceramics Juried Alumnae Exhibit 
GALLERY INFORMATION: 284-4655 
THURS., FEB. 28, 7:30P.M. THE NATIONAL TOUR 
Famous People Players 
$12/$10 

All performances in O'Laugh1in Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
I 
i 
' ·, 
i I 
\ 
i 
i 
I 
I 
' 
. J 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. (AP)­Marco Lokar could deal with the booing and even the nastiness after he decided not to wear the American flag on his Seton Hall basketball uni­form. The threatening tele­phone calls that upset his preg­nant wife were another matter. 
On Wednesday, Lokar put an end to the problem. He quit the basketball team, withdrew from Seton Hall and announced plans to return to his native Italy. 
"The consequences of my de­cision have been quite surpris­ing to me," Lokar said in a statement released by the school. "I have received many threats, directed both toward 
Detroit 
continued from page 20 
line too much," she said. "We need to stay out of foul trouble because we don't have the depth, so we plan on using the 
Illinois 
continued from page 20 
the match. 
In the 158 lb. division, Emil Soehnlen of the Irish and Mike Stonitsch of the lllini wrestled to a 1-1 draw in the evening's closest match. Soehnlen recorded an escape at :35 of the third period to salvage the draw. 
Irish co-captain and 12th­ranked Mark Gerardi made quick work of the Illinois' Keith Bollman in the 167 lb. class, recording a pin at 1:01 of the first period. Gerardi constantly put the pressure on his overmatched opponent in the easy victory. 
The Irish got another strong performance in the 177 lb. class from freshman J.J. McGrew as he decisioned the lllini's Mike Novak 5-2, giving the Irish a commanding 27-8 lead in the overall competition. He used two take downs and two escapes to gain the victory . 
The night's most controver­sial match occurred in the 190 lb. class, as both the Irish's Steve King and the lllini's Lance Pelton were penalized for stalling. The match ended in a 2-2 draw, much to the dismay of both coaches. King led 2-1 in a match marred by excessive pushing, when he was called for stalling at :17 of zone at least for a little while tonight." 

Another key will be Notre Dame's ability to control the rebounds and get the fastbreak in high gear. Against Butler in the second half, the Irish held a 24-12 rebounding edge, en­abling them to run more and break the game wide open. 
"(Rebounding) was a big part of our game, and when we started to lapse a little bit there, we lost our break," Weber said. "It's been something we've been working on a lot, so it was great to see that we did so well on the boards in our last game." 

page 17 The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1991 
At last, SC is off probation SMC basketball aims 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -South Carolina is off probation. 
The school received that long­awaited news Wednesday in a three-paragraph letter from the NCAA, prompting athletic director King Dixon to near tears as he discussed it. 
"I can truly say this is another red-letter day in the history of our institution," Dixon said during a hastily called news conference just hours after the letter arrived. "The action ... is yet another cornerstone in the foundation of the decade of the Gamecocks.... We're now to­tally embarked on a new begin­ning." 
South Carolina football coach Sparky Woods said the end of probation will send a message to the rest of the nation that the school is trying to run its program right. 
"I think we have good system set up to where if something does happen that we should be the one to recognize it in a hurry, report it and get it fixed," Woods said. "I think that's about all the NCAA or anyone can expect of a school right now. 
"We certainly can't say noth­ing bad's ever going to happen. But I think we can put our sys­tem up against everyone else." 
The end of probation was a 
Women 
continued from page 20 
"For where we are trying to go with our schedule, this year we made it completely Division I. The next step \\<ill be to play a Top Twenty schedule. Notre Dame has a re _l!tation for long time coming. The proba­tion dates back to 1987, when the men's basketball program was hit with two years' proba­tion because of rule violations under ex-coach Bill Foster. 

The NCAA extended the pro­bation by six months in July in the wake of the school's so­called "steroid scandal" that also prompted questions about the institutional control at South Carolina. 
In making its decision to ex­tend the probation, the NCAA asked the school to submit a report concerning the operation of its compliance program during the 1990 fall semester. 
The report, submitted in January, outlines its 17-point monitoring and compliance program for all sports. The program, begun shortly after the basketball program was placed on probation, includes orientation programs for coaches and players, NCAA rules workshops and an educa­tion program for boosters. 
University interim president Arthur K. Smith said the committee had "high praise" in July for the 17 -point program. 
"But the committee observed that during the previous year we had three athletic directors, two head football coaches ... , the death of a football coach 
playing the best teams. in all sports, and I expect us to be doing that by 1992." 
Bernie Holland, a senior co­captain. spelled the situation out even further. 
"This past season was the first in which the soccer team was really competitive," re­
anted: Katie Mulherin rime: Turning 21 
lffiajp)jp)y lBullilhlcellay~ n 

Love Jennifer Therese Cel nn + Nik 

DISCERNMENT RETREAT 
Friday, Feb. 22 -Saturday, Feb. 23 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame 
_

For those students interested in learning more about the Holy Cross Candidate Program and exploring the possibility of priesthood or brotherhood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
For lnfonnatlon: 

Fr. John Conley, CSC 
239-6385 

-
~~~~~~~~~~~~= 
••••• ~ .. "' •• •. • • -.. !" ~ 

-.;_, ____::a..·.. ----.s-.J...::--­
-·-~-. 
and the resignation of a presi­
dent," Smith said. 
"The committee, while admir­ing the university's compliance and monitoring program, wanted to see the program in operation for a full academic year prior to rendering its final judgment." 
The NCAA Committee on Infractions reviewed the report during its meetings Feb. 1-3 and then voted to remove South Carolina from the rolls of those on probation. 
"This is a momentous achievement," Smith said, "one that we have long awaited." 
After meeting with the committee in July, Smith said he was confident the NCAA would take the school off pro­bation after-the fall semester. 
"During the last seven months, the university has not only continued its monitoring program but has strengthened it," Smith said. "We've had in place one of the most ambitious and rigorous drug-testing pro-. grams of any Division I-A insti­tution." 
The drug-testing program got a test of a different sort in September when members of the NCAA drug-testing arm came to the school and tested numerous football players for steroids and other drugs. 
ranked ninth in the central re­gion-our first team ranking ever. We had been ranked higher _until our loss to Creighton. We also won the conference tournament this year, also a first for the team. 
"Nationally, we did not do as well, losing to highly ranked Duke and UNC-Greensboro. But I think that within a year or two, this team could become a nationally competitive team. Obviously, in only three years our competitiveness has in­creased by a significant amount. Next year, all club teams have been dropped from the schedule." 
Currently, the Notre Dame softball team finds itself in a similar situation. Now at the outset of their third season of competition, the Irish are being recognized as upwardly mobile on the national scene. 
"Notre Dame had a success­ful softball club team for over ten years," explained Assistant Athletic Director and Coach Brian Boulac, "and that was a consideration in making it a varsity sport. The university was looking for other sports to make into varsity programs, and research showed that many women at Notre Dame had played softball in high 
for tournament berth 
By TASHA TIGHT 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team (9-8) will play host to Grace College (11-1 0) tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles look to rebound from last weekend's defeats to defending national champion Hope College, 68-59, and 24-1 Rosary College, 83-76. Since the team is still in contention for tournament play and a winning record, every game is crucial as the end of the season approaches. 
"The game is extremely im­portant to the whole team," said Coach Marv Wood. "We are on the playoff borderline and we could either make it or miss it." 
The Belles have just four games left in the season. After tonight, the Belles travel to the University of Wisconsin­Parkside, where the team will have its hands full. 
"They are a Division II school," Wood said. "They'll run all out from the start of the game to the finish of the game." 
With so much at stake, the 
school and still played via intramural. 
"Another factor was that softball is growing in high school and in the NCAA. The last factor was the the MCC al­ready had a championship in existence, and that gave our girls something to shoot for right away." 
In the team's first season of play, the Irish went 31-23, in­cluding a third place finish in the MCC tournament. Boulac was picked as MCC Coach of the Year, and Rachel Crossen made the All-MCC team. Five Irish players were also named to the All-MCC second team. 
Last season, the softball team finished 32-15-1. as it won the MCC conference title and posted a 13-game winning streak-despite a considerably more difficult schedule. This year, Boulac has raised the schedule's degree of difficulty yet another notch. 
"This year, we're going to a tournament in Birmingham. Ala., where we will face three teams ranked in the pre-season Top 15-Florida State, South Carolina, and Louisiana Tech," said Boulac. "We upgraded it initially by playing a number of teams-specifically Miami of Ohio and Bowling Green-from the Mid-America Conference, 
:; :: Escap• for Jr. Par•nts• Y••k•nd ___ _ ;: ::
tab th WINDY CITY SHUTTLE to ChicaCJo­
::: 
ONLY $10.00 ROUND TRIP 
(T fchts avallabl• at LaFortun• Information D~slc J ::: 
:::·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·:·:·:-;-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·-:-:-:-:···:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::: 
-....---·· .................-....._.-...-.... -.... -.....-,.....-......... 
Belles intend to play hard and intense. 
"As a team, we have to rededicate ourselves to playing our best in the next four games," said senior guard Mea Tettonborn. "Grace College is a consistent team who will give us a run for our money." 
Tonight Saint Mary's will have to contain two Grace players to win. Returning center Beth Feldman and guard Cheryl Meyers lead their team's plan of attack. 
"They are both returners," Wood said. "They are strong offensively and both con­tributed defensively. They are the hub in which the wheel spins offensively for Grace." 
Grace is a veteran team and has four returning starters. But Saint Mary's beat Grace on its home court last year, 61-59, and hopes to repeat tonight. 
"We want to dictate the type of offense they use," said Wood. "We need to run, speed up and control the tempo throughout the game." 
"They are a good perimeter shooting team," added Tettonborn. "We need to seal off the shooters and keep them off the boards." 
which is a very fine softball conference. 
"We also play a couple of teams from the North Star con­ference-University of Illinois­Chicago, Valparaiso, and DePaul-which has a reputa­tion on a national level. With the exception of St. Joseph's (IN) and Saint Mary's, all of our opponents are Division I." 
The women's tennis team, despite the fact that it is also fast-approaching national prominence, is a different case altogether. 
First of all, the team has been competing since 1976 (1976-79 were fall seasons only). Second, the six of the first 10 years of tennis competition were at the Division II level. Thus, even though the Irish are amassing honors today, they have a con­siderable base to build upon. 
But the rainbow leading to a treasure-trove of good luck winds ever onward for Notre Dame. 
"I think that we are a lot more competitive now than we were my freshman year," men­tioned senior Kim Pacella. "In Division II, we were at the top, but we weren't really good when we switched to Division I. We're ranked No. 25 now, which is the first time we've ever been ranked. Our recent 
:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::·:::-:::·:·:·:·:-:-:·:-:·:·:::::::·:::-:-:::-:-:-:-:::-:-:-:-:·:-:::-:-:-:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:::-:-:::::-:·:::-:::-:::-:-:-:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·-.:·, win over Wisconsin kind of 
~:;  } proved that we're there now.  
:=;  ::;:  "A lot of the reason for our  
:;:  :~:~ increased competitiveness was  
::;  :;:; the change in coaches. Coach  
::  :;:; Louderback has changed the  
::  :;~; whole attitude of the team. My  
::  ~;~ freshman year I never thought  
::  ::;: that we would be where we are  
:: .  l  ~:~ right now. He is very good on :;: the court, and helps us with  
:::our  skills.  He  also  has  a  
::; calming effect in matches.  


"The unique aspect is that our coach and players form a really close-knit group.~ con­tinued Pacella. "Lots of teams are close, but not always close between coach and players. We've surprised ourselves, and I think that it will be a good year. This weekend will be a big determination of where we are because we play Indiana and South Carolina. If we win these two matches, we have a chance to make the NCAA's-a chance." 
\. 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1991 
Irish soccer teams sign 13 high school seniors 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and 
women's soccer teams made 
significant strides yesterday, 
signing a total of 13 high school 
seniors to letters of intent. 
The seven recruits signed by 
Irish men's coach Mike 
Berticelli include: 
•Bert Bader: A 1991 Parade 
·Magazine High School All­American goalkeeper. The Dallas native has toured with the U.S. under-16 national team. Bader has been a starter in the Region III Olympic Developmental Program since 1987. 
•Jason Fox: A 1991 Parade Magazine High School All­American midfielder. Fox has helped lead Avon High School in Avon, Conn. to two Class M state championships. He was rated the top player in the state of Connecticut last year in a poll of high school coaches and soccer observers conducted by the Hartford Courant. He was also voted the top scholar-ath­lete in the state. 

•Keith 
Carlson: An all-state forward as a junior last season when he scored 32 goals and eight assists, Carlson has been rated the top high school for­ward in the state of Texas. This year Carlson has chalked up 15 goals and six assists to lead Klein High School to a number­two ranking in the state.. 

•Chris 
Conway: A forward from Farmington, Conn. Conway was rated among the top five players in the state by a poll of high school coaches and observers. Although he chalked up 18 goals and 16 assists in 1990, he is expected to be a de­fender at Notre Dame. 

•Rick 
Christofer: A two-time all-conference, all-state and all­New England pick at midfield, Christofer is considered by high school coaches to be among the top five players in the state of Connecticut. 

•Christopher 
Dean: Gatorade player of the year in the state of 



Mike Berticelli 
Texas. A tow-time all-state selection from Plano, Tex., Dean was also the Dallas Morning News preseason player of the year in 1990. 
Kevin Adkisson: A 1990 all­state and three time all-confer­ence midfielder at Saint Mary's High School in St. Louis. 
"I am very excited about this incoming freshman class," Berticelli said. "We needed to recruit both talent and depth 

Syracuse's off-field problems have made boosters more wary 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­Syracuse's off-the-court bas­ketball problems haven't damp­ened booster enthusiasm, but it has made supporters more wary. 
The university last month be­gan an internal investigation of its basketball program follow­ing published allegations that players received benefits from boosters and of recruiting vio­lations. The accusations of wrongdoing also have drawn the attention of the NCAA. which has reportedly begun its own inquiry to determine whether it should conduct a separate investigation. 
So far, the investigation has resulted in the school tem­porarily suspending seven play­ers, who were immediately re­instated by the NCAA, and the "disassociation" of the school's top basketball booster from the university. 
"I haven't seen any negatives at all," said John Passonno, first vice president of the Hardwood Club, who is the likely successor to Joseph Giannuzzi, who was ordered to resign his position as club president by the university on Monday. 
"Actually, there's been a posi­tive from this. Everyone has rallied to Joe and Cynthia Giannuzzi's side. We don't think they were treated well by the university," Passonno said. 
Passonno also said ticket sales for the club's annual postseason dinner are ahead of last year's pace. 
"The dinner's the first Monday in March. Last year. we had 780 people attend. We've already taken reservations for 810 people with a couple weeks to go. We're going to have about 1,000 people there in support of the basketball pro­gram. That's remarkable," he said. 


The university has not made public its reasons for severing the Giannuzzi's ties with the university. However, the Syracuse Post-Standard, which triggered the investigation with a series of articles in December, quoted current and former players who identified the Giannuzzis as among the most active supporters of the men's basketball teams. 
Players said they often ate at the Giannuzzis' and received free haircuts and manicures at their beauty salon in Syracuse. 
Last week, the newspaper re­ported that current players Dave Johnson and Mike Hopkins had lived rent-free at the Giannuzzis before they started their freshman year at Syracuse. 
Another top officer of the Hardwood Club said Wednesday the organization isn't planning any reforms as a result of the investigation and action against Giannuzzi. However, second vice president Dennis Cleary said directors are likely to take additional steps to make sure members are aware of the copious NCAA regulations governing boosters' actions. 
"I guess we never thought our program was having prob­lems," Cleary said. "But after this, it's something we're going to discuss. We want to make sure everyone understands the rules so this never happens again." 


for next year, and I feel very confident that we've been able to accomplish both of those things. This class includes play­ers who are among the most talented players in the nation in goal. as defenders. as midfield­ers and as frontrunners. I think these players will provide a strong nucleus for the future of the Notre Dame soccer pro­gram." 
The Irish women also enjoyed a successful recruiting season. Women's coach Chris Petrucelli's new faces will in­clude: 
•Tiffany 
Thompson: A National Soccer Coaches Association (NSCAA) All­American in 1989 and a four­time member of the Texas all­state team. 

•Kim 
Gold: A five-year mem­ber of the South Texas all-state team, Gold, a goalkeeper, is a native of Houston, Tex. 

•Jill 
Matesic: An NSCAA All­American ion 1989 and a three­time Eastern Region All-


American. Matesic, a native of Wexford, Penn.. was a mid­fielder on Pennsylvania's west­ern state team from 1987-90. 
•Robin 
Mego: a midfielder on the South Texas State under-19 team in 1989 and 1990, Mego is a native of Spring, Tex. 

•Jodi 
Hartwig: A two-time all­state pick at forward from Ridgewood, N.J., Hartwig holds the single-season scoring record for the Northern New Jersey Interscholastic league. 

•Alissa 
Hock: A native of Cincinnati, Ohio, Hock is an all­city, all-league and Ohio south state pick from Wyoming High School. Hock is expected to play at midfieider. 


The Irish men and women also chose their captains for the 1991 season. Midfielder Kenyon Meyer and wingback Bret Hoffman will captain the men next year, while Marianne Giolitto, Molly Lennon and Susie Zilvitis will be the captains of the women's squad. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•The ND/SMC Sailing Club will have its first 1991 meeting at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 22 in Rm. 204 O'Shag. New members are welcome. 
•The Hapkido Club meets Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn self-defense. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron x3504. 
•Sports 
Trivia Contest sponsored by WVFI starting next week -lots of great prizes: COs. Sportswear. haircuts, pizzas and much, much more. Only a few spots still available. Call Jay at x3546 with names and numbers of your 3 person teams. 

•All 
past or present water polo club members: There will be a mandatory scrimmage held at the Rolfs Aquatic Center today at 8:30 p.m. We urge you to show up so we can better assess our future activities concerning the club this 


semester. 


American Heart \ Association ~ 
Attention Past Transfer Students 
The applications for the 1991 Transfer Orientation Executive Committee are now available and may be picked up at the secretary's desk at Student Government from Barb. The deadline for the ap~lication~ will be February 20th, after which we will contact each applicant and set an interview date and time. 
* *FEBRUARY 20th* * 

Give to the United Way . 
... 

The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 
Formation of Conscience: 
CATHOLIC TRADITIONS 
Professor George Lopez, Faculty Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies; Associate Professor of Government and International Studies 
Tonight-February 14 
7:30p.m. 
LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
,..........L...................u....a•s........a•s..a..~........u•a..~........... 
Thursday, February 14, 199_1________________ _2"_::e Q_b_~_c:~:.::'"e::.:r_______________ page 19 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Insect contest? 62Bete­
4:15 p.m. Graduate Colloquium in the History of 
30 Unique 63 Stables

1 Irreducible
Science, "The Battle over Evolution in Germany and the 
31 Intimidate 64 Beatty film 6 Moderate

Structure of Scientific Controversy," Dr. Robert 
37 Store 65 Barkin or 

Richards, University of Chicago. Hesburgh Library 10Company Burstyn
38 Reap

Lounge. 14 Olfactory 
39 Repute

stimulus 
40 Moon man

15 Baseball's DOWN
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Carbonate Reservoirs: Quantitative 
42 Bullwinkle, for 

Saberhagen
Characterization of Faeces and Permeability Using one 1 Golf stroke 
16 Light bulb, in 
Outcrop Analogs," Dr. Charles Kerans, University of 43 Ravage 2 Territory
comics
Texas, Austin. Room 101, Earth Sciences Building. 44 Used a shim 3 Distributes
17 Not as many 45 Got better 4"-aman
181nn fare
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Germ Cell Interactions, Control, 49 Card with ..." 
20 Basketball
Sex Determination in Hydra," Dr. Lynn Littlefield, strategy 51 Company's 5 Rifle University of California, Irvine. Galvin Auditorium. publication
22 Lotty lodging &Abated 52 Certain returns
23--500 7Army
7:30 p.m. Opening Reception with Slide and Lecture, (popular auto from Sampras 8 Look for Patty Carroll Photographs. Room 200, Riley Hall. race) 57 Returns 
9 Letter from 24 Actress Eve and 59 Be in store Piraeus 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Formation of Conscience: Catholic family 60 Canceled, as 10 Played a shrill stamps
Traditions," Professor George Lopez, University of Notre 25 Procrastinator's flute word 61 Downwind
Dame. Dooley Room, LaFortune. 11 "Do -toeat a peach?": T. S. Eliot 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Dammar or ·guaiacum r-o-+-=-+c::-t:::-1 13 Ends a chess game 31 Casino cash 
45 Boring 50 Sec. of the Interior:8:,:.+-:::+.::iilioB-::+.'71 19 Valentine collector 46 Rid of chalk, 1933-4632 Bo's number e.g.
delivered in 52 Group of turtles Santa Rosa 33 Adjective for 47 Ford's 53 Military truant "no news" 

21 Genetic initials predecessor in 54 Catch
MENU 34 "My Life as 1973
-...:=+::::-r.-t 24 Long time 55 Pressing
--,"Swedish ~,;..r.:+:::-i 25 TV role for 
48 Cheryl and 56 British version Diane
Peggy Wood film of5 Down
35 Rambler, e.g. 

49 Tore 58 Shot spot r.u~sJ~~~ 26 Controversial 36 TV's talking 
Notre Dame ~ apple spray horse ...,.-+::-:-+-:ct:t-:1 27 Model 38Aium Answers to any three clues in this 
-=+~,-+:-:,-t:-1 28 Aardvark's 41 Adolescents puzzle are available by touch-tone Strip Steak delight 421t's a gas! phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Rotellini with Spring Vegetables L.::.L...:...L.::~....___. 29 Gasconade 44 Beijing fryer minute). Cajun Chicken Breast 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
EAA~·s 8<<:£55\~ GAA'HN 'fl\nl ~\l5C.I..£S Cf t<\I>.G~\l\l~ IS t'Cl MATCI\ ~R STIJPEN()OIJS 11\E M~S~t> ~ Of 1-A.\G\-\T HANS Sf\li'£~00\JS ~NGffi' Rc\15 A ~\~1-11\C SK<:>~SN..L ... 
\ 

... Yol~£RE. l-IE \IStS \1\S Sl\lf'tl'\00..15 'J\SIC~ It> IJ)(,'.'t£-rnE. \)\/>.SOLICAL ARC\\· FlffiD 
AHHOY!Iffi GIRl. .' 


In the days before feathers 
TODAY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 8 AND 10:30 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION: $2  SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL Come meet the authors of today and of tomorrow.  

't Sports 
page 20 Thursday, February 14, 1991
I , I 
Notre Dame wrestling team defeats Illinois, 29-16 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish wrestling team got back on the winning track as it defeated Illinois 29-16 at the Joyce ACC last night. 
In the 118 lb. class, the Irish were minus starter Chris Jensen, who is nursing a separated shoulder. Senior walk-on Dave Iacoponi per­formed well in his absence but still was defeated by the Illini's Greg Rudin, 11-4. Iacaponi was able to escape two near pins but could not overcome the more-experienced Rudin. 


"He's not in great shape, but he's a fighter. We're real happy to have him," said Irish coach Fran McCann. 
The Irish received an early Valentine's Day gift as Illinois forfeited in the 126 lb. class, giving the victory to Marcus Gowens and putting the Irish in the lead, 6-3. 
In the 134 lb. class. the Illini's 

'' 
; f 

) ~ I ' 
u 
) ' 
i 
l: 
Brian Stewart squeaked out a narrow victory over Notre Dame's Kyle Cadman, 2-1. Stewart had a take-down early in the match which was followed by a Cadman escape. Neither wrestler could mount any offense for the rest of the match. 
"Kyle wrestled his best match ever," said McCann. "Unfortunately, he gave it up at the end." 
Jamie Boyd overcame a cut below the eye caused during the match and pinned the Illinois' Pete Vlaming at 2:34 of the first period. Boyd seemed to dominate the match after re­ceiving the cut, using an ag­gressive style to capture the victory. 
Notre Dame's Todd Layton dominated the 150 lb. class, crushing the Illini's Mike Nichols, 12-0. Layton had two take downs and a near pin in 
see ILLINOIS I page 16 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Since 1986, women's athletics at Notre Dame have undergone drastic changes. 
The tennis team began Division I competition in 1985­86, the same year that the fencing team took second place at the NCAA tournament and the basketball team placed third in the NIT after seizing its second consecutive North Star conference title. 
Yet the truly monumental al­terations which were per­formed on the women's teams have their origins in one of the final acts of former Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan­the August 4, 1987 hiring of Dick Rosenthal. 
"Dick Rosenthal has gone out of his way to help non-revenue sports more than anyone else," said Irish track coach Joe Piane. "He has done a great deal and has had to make the tough decisions. Every coach wants more aid; coaches are 




WOMEN 
IN 
SPORTS 
like little children with one piece of candy-they all want seven." 
In fact, Rosenthal has ex­panded the complement of Notre Dame women's varsity sports by four-including soccer (1988), softball (1988), golf (1988) and most recently, track (1990). Yet Rosenthal's contri­bution has not been limited to administrative duties. 
"There is one thing that Dick has done that no other athletic director I know of has done," explained Piane. "We ran in the NCAA championships in Knoxville, Tenn., and he was there. There were 22 men's and 22 women's teams there, but I don't know of any other athletic director who was on the course. He didn't have to do that, and we really appreciated it." 
In the two. years since women's soccer, softball and golf were elevated to varsity status, those teams have taken giant steps toward national competitiveness. 
The soccer team finished 25­16 under its first head coach, Dennis Grace. Chris Petrucelli, who coached the Irish in 1990, guided his team to a 16-3-1 fin­ish-far and away the best in the history of the program. 
"We are the top team in our conference," noted Petrucelli, "and we are very competitive (top ten) in our region. We are not yet competitive nationally." 
Yet it is that very national competitiveness which Petrucelli has committed him­self to. 
"I think that our schedule has taken a big step up, to the point where ninety-nine percent of our games are against Division I opponents," said Petrucelli. 
see WOMEN I page 17 

'i ~ 
i I 
H Women's basketball team to face top MCC challenger 
I 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
basketball team hopes its trip to 
Detroit tonight doesn't turn into

J 
\: a Valentine's Day massacre. 
'': The 20th-ranked Irish (17-4, 12-0) face the Lady Titans (11­1 0, 7 -3) at 7 p.m. in a matchup of the top two teams in the MCC. Notre Dame posted an easy 87-53 victory over Detroit during Christmas break in their first meeting this season. 
Of the Lady Titans' seven league victories, six have come against opponents at .500 or below in MCC play, including two wins over winless Saint Louis and one versus 2-9 Marquette. Still, Detroit is a formidable 8-4 at home-4-1 in the MCC-and will be looking for a measure. of revenge against the Irish. 
"Detroit is the most athletic team in the conference aside from us," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "They've got good speed and quickness at guard, and pretty good post players. They're not a stand­still, good-shooting type of team, but they play more of a running style. They match up with us pretty well. It should be the best game we've had in the conference this year." 

The Lady Titans boast two of the league's top three scorers in 6-2 center Sharon Miller (15.4 ppg, 8.1 rpg) and forward Mandy Chandler (15.9 ppg, 8.6 rpg). Two other players average in double figures: guard Penny Kroll (11.0 ppg, 4.5 apg) and forward Patrice Martin (1 0. 9 ppg, 3.8 rpg). 
For the third straight game, junior Margaret Nowlin draws the challenge of stopping the opponent's leading scorer. Nowlin faces the tough task of stopping Miller inside, an as­signment McGraw hands her with no qualms. 
"She's playing really well right now." McGraw said. "I just feel so good about her right now that I think she can guard anybody in the country." 
Detroit is unique in that it has a better three-point shooting percentage {80-203 ..394) than overall field-goal mark {.385). Roth Kroll and Martin are in the 39 percent range for the year and are among the ieague leaders in that category. 
The Lady Titans, however, had trouble with Notre Dame's pressure defense in their first meeting. The Irish forced 38 turnovers and held Detroit to only 30.5 percent shooting. 
"(Detroit) didn't handle our pressure well, especially in the opening part of the game," Irish assistant coach Kathleen Weber said. "We jumped all over them and were in their faces defensively. We got a lot of fast break situations out of it." 
At the same time, Notre Dame has been successful recently in its zone defense. McGraw cites foul problems as a major factor in her decision to change strategy. 
"The only reason we went to a zone (against Butler) was that we were putting them on the line too much," she said. "We need to stay out of foul trouble because we don't have the depth, so we plan on using the zone at least for a little while tonight." 
Another key will be Notre Dame's ability to control the rebounds and get the fastbreak in high gear. Against Butler in 
see DETROIT/ page 16 









