-~~----------~-------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 136 FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1991 
. ----... 
i THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ­
Gorbachev remains Communist party chief 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet the Soviet president for the na­Union's Communist leadership tion's protracted political and decided Thursday to keep economic crisis, delegates said. Mikhail Gorbachev as party In his closing remarks to del­chief, despite hours of criticism egates, Gorbachev said it had that prompted him to offer to been one of the "sharpest quit. plenums ever. It was impossible 
The demands for Gorbachev's to expect anything else," the In­removal ended in "a crisis of terfax news agency quoted him nerves on all sides," said as saying. Alexander Pomorov, a regional The hard-liners demanded Communist Party leader from Gorbachev declare a state of Siberia. emergency to restore order, 
"This is not a demonstration which he had already rejected of strength, but a demonstra­on Wednesday, the first day of tion of (the party's) weakness," the meeting. he said 'in an interview Thurs­Russian republic Communist day night as the meeting of the boss Ivan Polozkov said Gor­party's policy-making Central bachev had "abandoned the Committee ended. party," according to one dele­
Delegates emerged from the gate. yellow Kremlin into a chilly For two hours, Gorbachev spring evening after more than endured tongue-lashings from 10 hours of what party ideology 18 delegates, and many urged 
The Observer/Ken Osgood
chief Alexander Dzasokhov him to resign, Interfax said. called ..a sharp and critical ex­Then, in a tactic he h(!.s used 
Skating in the sun 
change of opinions." before, Gorbachev forced the 
Clad in colorful spring gear, an unidentified Notre Dame student takes advantage of the sunny weather and 
Hard-liners at the closed ses­see GORBACHEV/ page 4 
skateboards to his heart's content in front of Grace and Flanner Towers. 
sion spent the morning blaming 
Sister Kathleen Cannon becomes new director of IPSM 


Special to The Observer In addition to her adminis­
tween the academic and re­directorship in the 1991-92 trative background, Cannon has search resources of the academic year. He has alreadyDominican Sister Kathleen extensive experience in liturgy, University and the daily life of accepted a faculty fellowship in Cannon, as.:iv(.iate provost at liturgical preaching and the Church in the modern Latin American studies at 
the University of Notre Dame, religious formation work. world." Stanford University after he re­will become the new director of Cannon has also written and 
Cannon received her bache­tires. A Notre Dame alumnus the University's Institute for lectured extensively in these lor's degree in mathematics and former chairman of the Pastoral and Social Ministry fields. from Ohio Dominican College in University's Department of (IPSM) June 1, according to Prior to her appointment at 1965, her M.A. in religious Theology, Pelton founded the 
provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Notre Dame, Cannon was assis­studies from Providence College Notre Dame Institute for Clergy
Sister Cannon will succeed 
tant professor of preaching and in Rhode Island in 1975 and her Education in 1976 and was its Father Robert Pelton, the insti­communication at Catholic D. Min. from Catholic University director for ten years.tute's director since 1986. Theological Union in Chicago. of America in Washington, D.C., The program, now a compo­
Cannon will retain her posi­She lectured on homiletics at in 1982. nent of IPSM as the Center for tion in the provost's office, Princeton Theological Seminary She has served as a member Continuing Formation in
Sister Kathleen cannon
where her duties include a and on religious studies at Ohio of the General Council of the Ministry, has provided continu­
range of academic matters, distinction in religious studies
Dominican College. Cannon also Dominican Sisters and on the ing education to more than which include acting as an aca­served two years as assistant and the administrative exper­boards of Albertus Magnus and 1,200 Catholic clergy, religious 
demic liaison with Saint Mary's professor of religious studies at tise to reevaluate the institute's 
Ohio Dominican. and lay ministers. College, coordinating personnel Albertus Magnus College in structure in light of the chang­She is a member of the "Bob Pelton's contributions to matters for regular facult, and New Haven, Conn., where she ing needs of the Church," Catholic Theological Society of IPSM are as basic and as lastingdealing with women's concerns. . chaired the religious studies O'Meara said. America, the Academy of as the program's foundations,"
"In these qualities she person­
She currently chairs both the department. Homiletics, the Dominican O'Meara said. "The esteem in 
ifies the unique mission of the
commencement committee and .. Kathleen Cannon brings to Leadership Conference and Pax which the institute is held at the 
the faculty/student committee the directorship of IPSM the institute," added O'Meara,_ Christi. 
see CANNON/ page 9 
on women. "which serves as a bridge be-
ideal combination of academic Pelton, 69, will retire from the 
Administration supports recycling efforts 
By DAVID KINNEY 
ety of issues that the campus Assistant News Editor community must face, from smoking to clean water to recy­
Inspired by the recycling ef­cling. forts led by Notre Dame stu­Each of the three groups ­dents, the administration has Recyclin' Irish, the task force, quickly followed suit with a va­and the Environmental Issues riety of new committees to ad­Committee -are working dress the issue of recycling . closely in order to lead Notre 
In fall 1989, a student orga­Dame in a world in which recy­nization was formed in order to cling will be crucial. continue programs initiated by James Dailey, an ND alumnus. •Recyclln' Irish Recyclin' Irish, .as the group president for Business Affairs, The work of Recyclin' Irish, 
was named, sought "to support and is composed of the direc­an entirely student run organi­and push for a comprehensive tors of several key University zation, focuses primarily on the recycling program," according departments. collection and processing of re­to senior Paul Ruesch, current University Food Services has cyclable materials on and off president of the organization. also begun a variety of pro­campus. 
A University Task Force on grams aimed at recycling, in­Students, in some cases aided Recycling was created to give cluding a mug program and a by the housekeeping staff, col­Recyclin' Irish the University newspaper collection program, lect materials deposited in the commitment and support that it according to David Breitbach. recycling bins, sort them and needed to accomplish its goals, head of the University Food take them to centralized dump­said Ruesch. Services Recycling Committee. sters on campus. Superior 
Recyclin' Irish looks to the In fall 1990, the University Waste then hauls the materials 
task force to help them to put Environmental Issues Commit­to processing centers.
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 
the ideas of students into prac­tee was commissioned by Uni­Much of the success of the tice. The task force is headed versity President Father Ed­program depends on the net-
Donating blood 
Nurse Gail Patzkowsky tends to Freshman Jim Breen's arm as he 
by Jim Lyphout, associate vice ward Malloy to address a vari-see RECYCLE I page 5 
gives the gift of blood in the Cavanaugh Hall blood drive. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
'Grease' is a good option to a cult classic 
While I am very much ------­
looking forward to seeing tonight's midnight movie on the South Quad, I couldn't help but feel sur­prised that it is "The Rocky Horror Picture Show." Why? If they 
wanted to get away from Anna Marie Tabor mainstream classics at SMC Accent Editor 
these whitebread learning institutions. they could get a traditional Japanese porn flick. At least those movies have plots. 
It serves me right for not getting on an An Tostal committee. I believe that movies serve two specific purposes: to influence and to provide an escape. Will Notre Dame's motto after this weekend be "sex, drugs, and embryos?" And maybe it's just me, but after a couple hours of being bombarded by hot dogs, rice, water, and toast, I'm more than ready to "escape" back to the real world. 
Tell me, would you rather do the time warp or the greased lightning? 
I think "Grease" is the ultimate 75-minute vacation getaway. Whenever it gets to the end of "We Will Always Be Together," I am ready_ to rewind the tape and do the hand jive all over again. Everyone remembers the first time she saw "Grease." and I think it would be really groovy to relive the memories on the South Quad. 
There are many reasons I am an avid fan of "Grease." The girls always got their men, or else "don't sweat it, honey. Have one of mine." 
The music and dancing are supreme. (Forget the fact that you had to have gym­nastic ability to even get onto the dancefloor.) Everyone hung out at a neato malt shop. ~ high school diploma was worth more than 1t is today. Peer pressure was whether or not to accept an invitation to tea at Sandra Dee's house. And those students spent all their time fixing up cars and wearing pink jackets instead of filling out college applications. 
"Grease" represents all the stereotypes (remember Eugene?) and anxieties that fill the impressionable young adult life. It de­picted people and their attitudes with class. Everyone wanted to be like John Travolta with greased hair and a funky strut. Olivia Newton-John proved that nice girls do NOT finish last. Even Stockard Channing revealed sensitivity beneath her tough exterior and said "There Are Worse Things I Could Do" than have an unplanned pregnancy. Suicide and drugs didn't seem to be answers to problems with options. 
Besides all the socially redeeming material in "Grease," it is an exceptionally entertaining movie that should be shown annually in theaters everywhere. If it has been a long time since you've thrown a slumber party and sung "Hopelessly Devoted To You," this is the weekend to do it. 
You will see me on the Quad tonight flicking Bics with the best of them. An Tostal has done a great job of getting me in the mood for hot 
Friday, April26, 1991
The Observer 
="'''''''':''"''''''' Cloudy skies and light showers Friday, with temperatures , ranging in the forties 
' and fifties. 
Paris Philadelphia Portland. Ore. Rome St. Louis 
H  L  
70  52  
69  58  
53  m  
64  44  
66  41  
82  63  
74  43  
63  37  
85  70  
83  69  
53  38  
55  46  
69  57  
70  45  
85  78  
50  m  
78  66  
74  48  
54  m  
72  49  
55  40  
61  34  
58  54  
62  50  
66  36  
59  54  
72  48  

.. ' 
. : :-. ::: 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
WHO compiles statistical yearbook 
•GENEVA -Japan's women live longest, Hungary has the highest suicide rate and Venezuela the most traffic deaths, according to a new survey by the World Health Organization on mortality rates. Deaths linked to smoking total 1.8 million each year in the industrialized countries alone, the U.N. agency estimates. The figures are among thousands packed into WHO's 423-page statistical yearbook, which includes a comprehensive mortality survey based on reports from 55 cou?~ries, mostly in t~e Americas and Europe. The new editiOn, released this month, covers data through 1989. Cirrhosis and other liver diseases, often attributed to regular high alcohol consumption, were listed as causing 50.4 deaths per 100,000 people in Hungary, 32.6 in Chile and 26.2 in Austria. Among other winegrowing countries, the rates were 24.9 for Italy, 21.4 for Spain and 19.6 for France. The rate was 11.7 in the United States and a mere 3.6 in Ireland. 
Cholera threatens Latin America 
•GENEVA -Latin America's cholera epidemic threatens about a quarter of the region's population, or up to 120 million people, the head of the World Health Organization said today. People living in poor conditions in urban shantytowns and slums as well as in rural areas are especially at risk, WHO director-general Hiroshi Nakajima said. He announced the creation of a WHO task force which he said will develop a worldwide strategy for helping countries fight what he termed a health emergency. Nakajima, addressing a news conference. appealed for international financial support for the group of experts, to be based at WHO's Geneva headquarters. Aims include increased monitoring of the disease and advice on providing clean water, improving laboratory services and distribution of medicine. and launching public education campaigns. 
Of INTEREST 
•PALM EACH, Fla. -Police investigating a woman's report that she was raped at the Kennedy estate are still tracking down potential witnesses. said the city's police chief who defended the lengthy investi­gation. A 29-year-old woman told police that William Kennedy Smith, a nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, 

raped her at the seaside estate on March 30. Meanwhile, in another development Wednesday. a supervisor at the Palm Beach County sexual assault office reported that someone sneaked into the office and rummaged through its files the weekend of April 13. The office's progr_am su~ervisor: Kris. K~rna, said nothing was stolen and 1t wasn t clear If the mcident was related to the rape investigation. Terlizzese said once the case is completed and police records made public, "the people who bother to read through it will see that we haven't left out anything." 
Swallowin difficult for olio victims 
• -Many survivors of the polio epidemic of the 1950s have trouble swallowing, the latest evidence of muscle weakness that afflicts one-fourth of survivors, a study released today says. Th~ condition.. know~ as dysphagia. can increase the nsk of chokmg. It 1s a complication of post-polio syndrome, which afflicts people 25 to 35 years after they have seemingly recovered from polio. Of the 500,000 Americans who survived the polio epidemic, more than ~25,000 are _estimated to. have post­polio syndrome, which results m progressive mus~le weakness. The researchers suggested that people with post-polio syndrome see their doctors to _be ch_ecked f?r dysphagia. Some may need to change their eatmg hab1ts to reduce the risk of choking. However. "patients can properly be counseled that they will not return to their previous state of disability. 
weather. but I'm looking forward to those Summer Nights. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Thursday's  Stoff  
News Frank Rivero Slobhon McCorthy  Production Melt ssa Cusock Jeanne Blosl  Systems Cesar Copello Edouord Beouvl!ls  
Accent Shondo Wilson Chorml!lne Mortlnez Mlche11e Devers Meredith McCollough  VIewpoint Clrculatt on Michael Krl!use Bill O'Rourke Nett Novek Gruhtcs Suson Sulllvllln Ann-Merle Conrodo  
Sports Rolando de Aguler  Scoreboard Jim Vogl  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•The 
Snite Museum of Art's Student Art Forum will host an MFA student thesis show Sunday. April 28 from 2 to 4 p.m. in the Museum's atrium. Five MFA students of the Department of Art, Art History and Design will have works on display in O'Shaughnessy Galleries West. 

•Saint 
Mary's Justice Education Department will conclude its 10th anniversary celebration with a wine and cheese reception for faculty and friends at 4 p.m. today in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April25, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NVSEINDEX 
• 1.67
166.94 Million 207.50 

S&P COMPOSITE 379.25 DOW JONES INDUSTR2,921.04  .. IALS •  3.51 28.46  
PRECIOUS METALS  

GOLD .(} $ .85 to $356.1 0/oz. SILVER -6-1 .95¢ to $3.92/oz. 
•Kathy 
McDonough will be giving a piano recital today at 5 p.m. in 124 Crowley Hall. 

•The 
St. Vincent De Paul Society will be holding a clothing and usable item drive in all the residence halls May 6, 14 and 20. For more information, call Campus Ministry at 239-5242, or the St. Vincent De Paul Society at 234-6000. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1607: An expedition of English colonists, including Capt. John Smith, went ashore sat Cape Henry, Va., to establish the first permanent English settlement in the New World. 

• 
In 1865: John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of President Uncoln, was surrounded by federal troops near Bowling Green, Va.. and killed. 

• 
In 1964: The African nations of Tanganyika and Zanz­ibar merged to form Tanzania. 

• 
Five years ago: The worst nuclear accident in history occurred at the Chemobyl plant in the Soviet Union. At least 31 Soviets died as a direct result of the accident. 


Frida~April26, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Ordination issue discussed 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
The prospect of ordination for women in the Catholic church is a matter of being heard and a matter of time, according to a panel discussing the future of women in the church. 
"We are not making full use of the gifts God has given us," said panelist Alex Kratz. 
The panelists also expressed a concern that talented women are not allowed to contribute to the church. 
"I need to be a part of a church (that) will allow me to relate my experience as a hu­man," said Mary Yu, panelist. 
She added that she is tired of hearing homilies by priests who are tired of giving them. Ac­cording to Yu, women have been called upon to preach, and their gifts and talents can re­energize the church. 
"I don't think ordination is a right, it is a gift of God," said panelist Paul Coleman, a re­cently ordained priest. He added that women are just as capable of receiving that gift as men. 
Kratz is also considering en­tering the priesthood. He said that men and women worship together and should be able to minister together. 
Concerning the position of women in the church, "All of humanity needs to be involved. It is such common sense," said Kratz. 
He also said that the issue is not a matter of radical opinions, but a matter ofjustice. 
Each of the panelists agreed that women possess the same ability to preach that men have. 
Panelist Catherine Watson summarized the collective atti­tudes of the panelists, saying that women should be able to share their knowledge and ex­periences in the church. 
The seminar was sponsored by the Committee on Notre . Dame's Position on the Ordina­
tion of Women. 
Buy this space and say "CONGRATULATIONS" to someone in the 
For more information, call The Observer office at 239-6900 or visit the 3rd Floor of La Fortune and at St. Mary's, 3rd Floor of Haggar. (Photos will be accepted) 


PLS program making progress 
By MARY MURPHY News Writer 
The Program of Liberal Studies {PLS) at Notre Dame has changed dramatically since 
the program was first created, according to Otto Bird, ND professor emeritus and founder of the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Professor Bird spoke Thursday at a lecture titled, 
. "The Great Books at Notre Dame: The Early Years of the Program of Liberal Studies." 
Bird's report on the Program 
?===============~=~=~====rofLi~~s~~sW~)furu~d 
Bird defined a Catholic ghetto as a totally Catholic environ­ment. 
This opening left Notre Dame at a turning point. The program was then left with the ability to expand or to return to its previous status. University President Father Cavanaugh at the time chose the latter and was implemental in the estab­lishment of PLS. 
Together with Robert Kiley, a Notre Dame alumni, football player under Knute Rockne and teammate of the "Gipper," Father Cavanaugh taught a Great Books class to a select 
sponse, saying that Pegis has a 
complete misunderstanding of 
the program. 
Bird said that experts will 
want to lecture the students, 
rather than lead students to 
question the works. 
He then addressed the ques­tion of historical understanding of Great Books. Bird said, "What the book has to say is not limited to the time and place it is written." He cited an example of justice. Bird said that the topic of justice in the students' readings is not meant to be studied historically, but to influence their thinking about justice. 
Bird went on to say that a quick reading of the material does not lead to the "disfigurement of the truth." He said that there are two ways a person may be knowledgeable, scientifically and generally educated. 
The distinction according to Bird is between "Paidea and Episteme." Paidea is translated to mean "humanitas," or "a general understanding." Individuals who have obtained this are able to "judge matters in many subjects and disciplines." Peg~s is concen­trating on Paidea, a scientific 
see PLS/ page 5 
FOOD BASKETS FOR FINALS 
2 doz. homemade cookies, 2large muffins, 4 fruit, 3 pkgs cheese balls, 1 6 oz pkg. Cal Mix, 16 oz pkg. Smackems, 2 pkgs gum, 2 candy bars, rock and roll pencil 
$19.50 
Delivery Thru 5-9 Call 1-800-373-9716 Local 272-9776 
on three points. He discussed the prehistory of the PLS, the structures and current situation of the program, and remarked on the progress of the program since its establishment. 
PLS was introduced to Notre Dame shortly after World War 
II. In 1945, ND was in a new situation with the establishment of Naval V-12 program which opened the "Catholic ghetto"of ND to diversity. 
group of students. This was the precursor to PLS. 
Surprisingly, the opposition to PLS came from friends and colleagues rather than the Notre Dame faculty. Antoine Pegis, the principle of the Me­dieval Institute in Toronto wrote an article "Truth and Great Books," "attacking" the program. 
. Pegis said that superficial readings of Western Books re­sulted in a "cruel disfigure­ment" of the truth. The books needed to be studied histori­cally, and must be read and taught by specialists who have been trained to understand the books, Pegis added. 
Bird wrote a letter of re-
Why take your winter
SeniorIGraduate 

clothes home for

Alumni Picnic 
the swnmer? Saturday, April 27, 1991 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. 
Senior/ Alumni Club 
Then return the box to Zikcrs and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all summer
11:30 am-1:30pm 
and ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
FREE OF CHARGE!!!-­
• 
low cost storage • No payment until Fall 

• 
Protection from • More closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 


21 ID REQUIRED 
and STUDENTID 
207 us 31 (acro$S from Bob Evans) 
272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next to Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 


~-----~----------------------------------·
r 
l 
I 
page4 The Observer 
f 
I 
Iraqi troops begin withdrawal from 
ZAKHO, Iraq (AP) -Iraq on Thursday denounced an allied ultimatum to pull its troops from the northern refugee zone, but hours later agreed to keep only 50 police in Zakho, where the first allied-protected camp is being constructed. 
U.S. military officials had signaled readiness to use force to back their demand that Iraqi security forces leave the zone in northern Iraq where camps are being set up for Kurdish refugees. 
The White House hailed the report that Iraq would comply. President Bush called it "encouraging.... It's a very good development." 
Iraq's prime minister, Saadoun Hammadi, denounced the U.S. order to vacate by the weekend the so-called "safety zone" near the Turkish border. 
"We believe that (neither) the United States nor any other country has a right to ask Iraq to do such a thing," he told a news conference in Baghdad. 
Later in the day, however, Iraqi U.N. Ambassador Abdul Amir al-Anbari said after meeting with U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering that under an Iraqi-allied accord all Iraqi soldiers had left Zakho and most police were leaving, ex­cept for a contingent of 50. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said in Washington that there are about 7,000 U.S. troops in northern Iraq and across the border in Turkey, and that the Pentagon "may well deploy additional forces" to the area. 
More than 2 million Kurds fled to the rugged frontiers of Iran and Turkey after govern­ment troops crushed their re­bellion, which was launched after Iraq's defeat in the Per­sian Gulf War. 
A Shiite Muslim uprising in the south also set off a flood of refugees. The U.S. military, Saudi Arabia and the Kuwaiti Red Crescent are caring for 40,000 refugees in or near a buffer zone that extends six miles into Iraq and three miles inside Kuwait. 
Saudi Arabia is building a camp to house up to 8,000 of the Iraqi refugees camping on the Kuwait-Iraqi border, Gen. Khalid bin Sultan of Saudi Ara­bia, commander of Arab forces in Operation Desert Storm, said Thursday. 
He told reporters in Riyadh the refugees could stay indefi­nitely, "until their tragedy ends." 
In the north, Kurdish clan leaders have told U.S. officials they are reluctant to come to the camps being built for them because of the threat posed by government forces. 
The Kurds were especially worried about the hundreds of Iraqi police who were prowling the streets of the near-deserted city of Zakho. 
A barber at his shop, speak­ing on condition that his name not be used, said there were 2,000 police in the city. 

Mandell hosts book-signing on Sunday 
Special to The Observer 
Gail Porter Mandell, chair of the Saint Mary's humanistics department, will be hosting a book-signing for her new book, "Life into Art: Conversations with Seven Contemporary Biog­raphers." 
"Life into Art," Mandell's sec­ond book, contains interviews with seven distinguished biog­raphers: Paul Mariani, Arnold Rampersad, Michael Mott, Phyllis Rose, Edwin McClellan, Jonathan Spence and Elisabeth Young-Bruehl. 
"I chose to interview biogra­phers who take a literary ap­proach, broadly defined, to their material," Mandell said. "No less than the historian, they desire to ascertain the facts of the lives of their subjects, but like the novelist, they also aim to create through language the illusions of life." 
Mandell's first book, "The 

Furuhashi receives honors 
Special to The Observer 
Yusaku Furuhashi, Herrick Professor of International Business at the University of Notre Dame, was honored re­cently during the centennial celebration of Seattle's Albers School of Business. 
Furuhashi, on leave from Notre Dame during this semester, was one of 26 Seattle graduates honored by Seattle's Albers School of Business for dedication to service and excellence, professional accomplishments, creativity, leadership and selflessness. The graduates were guests at an April 19 banquet in Seattle. 
Furuhashi graduated from 

Seattle University in 1956 . 
After graduating from Seattle University, Furuhashi obtained a master's degree in business from the University of Washington in 1958. He re­ceived his doctoral degree from the University of Illinois in 1961 and joined the Notre Dame business faculty the same year. 
Furuhashi has served the University in several adminis­trative positions, including dean of the College of Business Administration and director of Notre Dame's MBA program in London. He has also published widely in the areas of international business, trade and mar­keting. 
DIREmo Bv FREDERIC SYBURG 

APlAY BY BERTOLT BRECHT 
ENGUSH VERSION BY ERIC BENTLEY 
WED., APRIL 24-S.u., AI'RJL 27 8:10 PM SUN., APRIL 28 3:10PM 

WASHINGTON HALL 1990-91 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
Reserved Seats $7, Student and Senior Crtizen discourm are available on Wed., Thurs. ond Sun. Trckets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center information desk. For MasterCard and V:'SO orders coli (219) 239-8128 
Phoenix Paradox: A Study of Renewal through Change in the Collected Poems and Last Po­ems of D. H. Lawrence," was published in 1984 by the South­ern Illinois University Press and was awarded the Chicago Women in Publishing Award for Excellence the same year. 
The book-signing will take place Sunday, April 28, from 2 to 4 p.m. at Pandora's Books, located at 808 Howard Ave. 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRACTICIONERS 
P-' c.kiM 
GRESK S1MGLETOR 
Jat•T... lit ' ., • 46204 !317) U4-fln 

Friday, April 26, 1991 
USSR 
continued from page 1 
issue. The chairman of the So­viet Communist Party said he had had enough of the endless attacks and made what one delegate said was a "half-seri­ous" offer to resign if the Cen­tral Committee took a vote of no-confidence. 
A letter signed by 72 Central Committee members was circu­lated during an ensuing break in the meeting, saying the res­ignation of the party leader was a matter for the party's Congress, not a Central Com­mittee meeting, Interfax re­ported. 
If the Central Committee in­sisted on pursuing Gorbachev's resignation, the 7 2 signers threatened to convene the Congress to elect a new Central Committee, said Interfax, an independent news agency. 
Also during the break, the party Politburo met and unani­mously decided that Gor­bachev's resignation should not be considered, said Valentin Falin, head of the party's inter­national department. 
The Central Committee then voted 322-13 against pursuing the idea, Falin told a news con­ference. 
"Those of us who work with him side-by-side certainly found a lot of human sincerity when he spoke about his resignation," Falin said. 
Kazakhstan President Nur­sultan Nazarbayev described the bid to remove Gorbachev from his post as "an explosion by the (party) apparatus, which does not reflect the opinion of the people and the members of the party," Interfax said. 
The plenum also elected three new members to the new Polit­buro, the top party decision­making body. 
Mikhail Surkov, head of the army party commission, was elected to what apparently was a newly created Politburo post, to appease the military. 
The other new members were Dzhumgalbek Amanbayev, first secretary of the Kirghiz party, and Grigory Yeremei, party first secretary of Moldavia, Tass reported. The republics' party 

"THE ICICLE THIEF is a pure de Jht.... 
A convulsively funny satire... 
Nichetti is a real find. 41 -Shetla Benson TIMES 
"Maurizio Nichetti's comic mastr :Jiece... THE ICICLE THIEF is celestial, c. !Jmtc and satine and slapstick heaven ·Jr movie obsessed angels. "-Jayscott · wro GLOBE 
"A mind-boggi ~g farce... Nichetti's underlying notion is b1 1fh simple and inqenious. " 
.: .'VfL1· . ·Ll> f:ir 
MAUR/Z/0 NICHTrJ ~ 
~~; . V~htASI"'(.-~~:.?t•J~ ;~::.:·-~NS' .;.:;.:;;... : ARIES 
Notre  Dame  Communication  and  Theatre  
Cinema  at  the  Snite  
FRIDAY  AND  SATURDAY  7:30,  9:30  


MONEY NOW, PAY LATER 
Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR., NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH-13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check! 

~ RELOCATION· 9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
s.parate from lhe ~ 
Friday, April 26, 1991 The Observer page 5 
PLS 
continued from page 3 
knowledge, whereas PLS is concentrating on Episteme. 
Bird's presentation also dis­cussed the commitments of the program. The Program, ac­cording to Bird, is committed to professing and practicing the faith of the Catholic Church. Even though there are compet­ing theologies within the Catholic Church, the program has gone even further to focus on the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
Also, the faculty was origi­nally intended to be "omnicompetant." They were to know every course that the PLS students must study. However, this goal was never realized. 
Bird discussed the "most in­novative aspect" of the program developed in 1950, the language tutorial which was eliminated after the Freshman Year of Studies was developed. The tutorial was five hours per week. It gave intensive reading on short texts with a focus on rhetoric, logic, and grammar. In short, it studied "different ways of knowing in writing," Bird said. 
Next, Bird discussed the changes in the program and the state of the program today. 
Bird said a lecture course in historical orientation was in­troduced to address the stu­dents' "ignorance of chronolog­ical orientation" of events in history. Students often didn't even know in what century the books were written, said Bird. 
Bird also said that under 
Hesburgh, the school has "almost quadrupled," resulting in "deterioration of undergrad­uate teaching." He added the faculty is "too secular." 
PLS used to be the most lib­eral program in the University according to Bird, but the ex­pansion of the University changed that. 
He feels that the program is not as strong as it was in its first years, because "philosophy and theology are watered down" and there has been a "depletion of logic and math." 
However, Bird feels that the program is still strong in its founding ideologies, in that it has remained faithful to the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
Bird received his bachelors and masters' degrees from the University of Michigan. Bird has published works such as "Syllogistics and Logic" and "Cultures in Conflict" mainly on theories on education. He is publishing his autobiography in the summer or the fall. 
Recycle 
continued from page 1 
work of dorm representatives. Volunteer dorm representatives and commissioners coordinate recycling efforts in each partic­ular dorm, according to Ruesch. As a result, "in each dorm, the extents of recycling done depends on the interest of the commissioner." 
In September 1990, the group opened a recycling center be­hind the Alumni-Senior Club as a drop-off point for recyclable materials for off-campus stu­dents and the South Bend community. 
Through the dorm and the recycling center, Recyclin' Irish collects newspapers, aluminum cans and glass bottles. Accord­ing to Lyphout, during calendar year 1990, the group collected 
77.5 tons of newspaper, 14.9 tons of glass and 20 tons of aluminum cans. 
TEEIIAGE MUTAII 
NIIIJAlURTLES D: 
THE SECRET Of THE OOZE 
Radically New! m 4:30-6:45-8:45 

"I think one of the things that we've learned from all this is that recycling does not result in a positive cash flow." Although the University receives 31 to 47 cents per pound for aluminum cans, it is charged one cent per 
pound  for both  glass and  
newspaper,  according  to  
Ruesch.  

The University must also pay rental fees for the dumpsters and the recycling center and pay Superior Waste to haul away the recyclable materials. 
As a result, the University is absorbing the costs of the pro­gram. 
"We're doing it for the envi­ronment," said Lyphout, "and to lessen the amount that goes into landfills." 
"We've diverted 100 tons from landfills since the beginning," said Ruesch. This is equal to 20 percent of the solid waste leaving Notre Dame. 
"We've been pretty successful in our program here," said Lyphout. "The success of the 
-orl'al 
'lhough'la 
Something 
terrible. ~ 
4:45-7:15-9:45 


Yourlastchance 
forextracredit 
beforegraduation. 

All you haV(: to do is rake a field trip to our dealership and show us your student 1.0., driver's license and proof of a job ~r graduation. Chances are, you'll be eligible for up to 60 monthS financing on any new Nissan~ with no money down and no payments for 90 days . 
Now, this extra credit can't improve yourgrades. But It can • certainlyget you out of school in a hurry 
No moneydown. Nopayments for 90days.


tiiuPt-::
:::.---Ges 
15 . ~ 2500 W. Lexington Ave. mmutes from campus "On the BYJMss at 3 points" 
Ull Tom Naquin, N.D. Class of 76 EI...KARI' toll free 67U059 
program has been to a large 
measure the result of Paul's 
(Ruesch} hard work and deter­
mination." 
Ruesch emphasized that the support of the directors on the task force was important in putting student's ideas into re­ality. Recyclin' Irish reports back to the task force and pre­sents recommendations for fu­ture action. 
"They've welcomed Recyclin' Irish with open arms," he said. "It's a task to help put student's ideas into reality." 
Recyclin' Irish, according to Ruesch, will continue the news­paper, glass and aluminum can collection while other programs are being developed. He hopes, however, that the University can hire workers to take up the task of coordinating the collection of newspapers, so that student volunteers can devote more time to other projects. 
The group hopes to expand its collection of plastic products, which is currently being tested in four dorms, said Ruesch. In addition, they are researching the possibility of collecting and recycling phone books and office paper. 
Most importantly, however, is the group's effort to encourage students to practice recycling in their everyday lives, according to Ruesch. University depart­ments must also examine their situation and try to develop their own recycling programs, he continued. 
"The combined effort of stu­dents and the university admin­istration has made the recycling program the success it is today," said Ruesch. 
•University Food Services 
Last fall, the University Food 
Services Recycling Committee 
was developed "to take recy­
cling as far as we can on our 
own operation," said Breitbach. 
Univewrsity Food Services 
decided to take the initiative to 
recycle as a result of Indiana 
legislation calling for 25 percent 
of all waste to be recycled by 
1995, according to Breitbach. 
While these programs are not 
yet mandatory, the University 
wants to get a head start on the 
movement. 
In addition, recycling results 
in cost savings for University 
Food Services. Because the 
University is charged each time 
Superior Waste collects the 
trash, Breitbach said, if Food 
Services can recycle more of its 
trash, it can cut down its costs. 
A case in point is cardboard packaging. Approximately 50 percent of the waste that Uni­versity Food Services creates is cardboard, which, according to Breitbach, can be recycled free of cost. A new program begin­ning next week will focus on re­cycling the cardboard used by the dining halls and the Huddle. 
Another program that has been successfully initiated by the committee is the mug pro­gram. Students are now able to buy plastic mugs, which can be refilled at a 10 cent discount. Over 4,000 mugs have been sold at the Huddle and the Oak Room, which has resulted in a 10 percent reduction in cup usage. 
Other recycling efforts by University Food Services in­clude the recycling of its com­puter paper and the use of pa­per towels composed of 40 per­cent recycled material. 
University Food Services has also reduced almost all of its styrofoam usage. Recycling sty-
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church Saturday, April 27th 5:00pm Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Sunday, April 28th 
10:00 am Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Tlae Utluiol PANCAKE HOUSE 
FOMi&j~ 
LUNCH SPECIAL 
April
Mon.-Fri. 

Special
All Month 

All Montb Free Hot Soup 
Ovenbake
With Rny 

Apple Pancakes 
Sandwich 
Purchase 

$100 
OFF 

Open 7 Doys R Week 
No Coupon Needed
Rt 6:00 R.M. 


U.S. 31 (llilimy) flortll in Raw.-(Acms tn. llllillay Ill) 272·1433 
rofoam, however. is not cost ef­
fective, according to Breitbach, 
since only large amounts of the 
material is accepted by recy­
clers. 

University Food Services, 
according to Breitbach, will 
continue to perfect current 
programs and expand its efforts 
into new areas in the coming 
years. 

•The Environmental Issues Committee 
The Environmental Issues 
Committee, according to 
Thomas Mason, committee 
head and vice president for 
Business Affairs, is attempting 
to implement recycling on two 
fronts. The first involves getting 
the University to use recycled 
products, and the second entails 
promoting recycling on campus 
with the student groups and the 
task force. 

Mason said that the commit­
tee is working to get the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
to sell more recyclable 
merchandise, such as note­
books made of recycled paper. 
In addition, they are pushing 
for the use of recycled paper in 
administrative offices and in ND 
publishing. 

In terms of cost and quality, 
he said, it is a feasible idea. 

The committee is also work­
ing with Recyclin' Irish on in­
creasing recycling on campus 
and instituting a comprehensive 
program. 

Mason said he was pleased that the students and the ad­ministration were working jointly on this issue. "The stu­dents have done a great job of the reducing the amount of trash," he continued. 
The recycling efforts at Notre Dame are unique, according to Ruesch, in that efforts began with the students and were then taken up by the administration. This, said Ruesch, has been crucial to the success of the movement, because students were ready to work when ad­ministrative programs were ini­tiated. 
The University commitment to recycling, according to Lyphout. has been emphasized by the cooperation of the Notre Dame students. Breitbach urged students to continue to recycle newspapers and to continue their participation in the mug program. 
"The students' work and the students' efforts inspired it," agreed Ruesch. 
"We're doing it from one standpoint and the students are doing it from another," Mason said, but "we're all trying to work together." 
Although students have in­spired the movement, both stu­dents and administrators are committed to the recycling pro­gram at Notre Dame, according to Ruesch. 
American+ 
Red Cross 

~------L-;a...¥..;ge.....;.6_______________~Th~e~Ob~se~rv~er~-------Friday, April26, 1991 
'i
r! 
I'
·l
.I ,, I 
,,I ,.,
·' 


,, 
b •• 

! ! I 
1i 
l 
.,;· 

t1l.tlt of~!. ~0 ~... --· ~-J:"i---:. 
. ~ 

Sponsored by the Alumni Association and .·­
Domino's Pizza 
I 
t. 
I 
I 
1: ~:'. Co"_Ie Listen .to . the . Camp~s durtng · the Picnic on Stepan 
1:30 p • ffi. *brought to us by University 
Band.s Playing.~ Field· 11 a.m. ~
.J 

Food Services 
DON'T FORGET the MUD PITS from ll-3p.m. 
Mud Volleyball Finals Mud Tug of War
• ­
-
"' .' .. 
Mud Pillow Fights Mud Pit Chariot Parade Mud Volleyball with the 

{ Dept. 
IJ?~ 
ljf 
l(~Ci.
lise 

Stli~· 
"~IIJlq 

A free concert brought to you by Dommo·s Pizza™ and the Alunmi Association For details and ticket information, see the Saturday pages in this booklet. 
+'(OS~.. 

~£•]__'{!,;,,~ ~~\~-~ 
"'-' .L .\... .L' ~ y \, . 
S£ IU I<UT"S COLU&l . 'IllI >LNT liNION 110/\Ril
l99 


and Race South Bend Police 
Featured Events: 
Morning Runs 
0

Road Railey Zucchini Race Limbo Contest Apple Bob and Pass Water Ball Pass Wet Clothes Relay 
Slip and Slide 
' 


Friday, April 26, 1991 The Observer page 7 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Heated questions 
Former Student Body Vice President Fred Tombar answers con­troversial questions at a Students United For Respect (SUFR ) coalition forum Thursday evening at Flanner Hall. 

Shuttle Endeavor brings fleet to strength 
PALMDALE, Calif. (AP) -A gleaming, white Endeavour rolled out of the hangar Thurs­day, bringing the space shuttle fleet up to full strength and re­placing the destroyed Chal­lenger. 
Capt. Dan Brandenstein, who will command Endeavour when it flies into orbit next year, lauded the new shuttle as "the jewel of the fleet." 
While the theme to ..2001: A Space Odyssey" played as a fanfare, thousands of Rockwell International Corp. and NASA employees cheered and waved American flags at Air Force Plant 42, where all shuttles are assembled. 
"If that doesn't put a lump in your throat, I don't think you're human," Brandenstein said. 
The captain was joined by Sen. Jake Garn of Utah, who once flew on a shuttle mission, NASA administrator Richard Truly and Rockwell officials. 
Completion of Endeavour re­turns the shuttle fleet to a force of four orbiters, joining Atlantis, Columbia and Discovery. Endeavour is scheduled to soar into orbit next spring. 
"This morning we set the stage to continue the explo­ration of the solar system," Truly said. 
He said the nation needs to 
expand its space program and establish a space station. 
Garn linked Thursday's roll­out of Endeavour with the na­tion's military victory over Iraq in the Persian Gulf. 
··I can't tell you how proud I am," Garn said. "With Desert Storm and the rollout of En­deavour -when I consider what a free people can accom­plish -Endeavour is evidence of that." 
Meanwhile, at Cape Canaveral, the National Aero­nautics and Space Administra­tion began another countdown for the shuttle Discovery after replacing an engine sensor that failed during fueling for a launch attempt earlier this week. 
Discovery is scheduled to lift off on a mission devoted to "Star Wars" research at 7:01 
a.m. EDT Sunday. 
In the Mojave Desert, the five­story-high orbiter had a daz­zling appearance, its heat-re­sistant tiles radiating the sun­light. 
"It won't be shiny like that when we get it back," said Brandenstein. 
Sam lacobellis, Rockwell's ex­ecutive vice president and chief executive officer, recalled the Jan. 28, 1986, Challenger tragedy in which seven astro­
nauts died, saying, .. We will 
never forget the Challenger 
tragedy, but we have learned 
and adjusted and persevered." 
The Rockwell executive said 
that with 38 successful 
launches out of 39 attempts, the 
shuttle is the world's most 
reliable space system. 

"There are lots of critics. but 
the world has far more critics 
than playwrights," Jacobellis 
said in praising the team that 
builds and flies the shuttles. 
"When Endeavour soars aloft 
next spring, it will be even more 
capable and versatile than its 
sister ships." 

Although it's nearly identical 
in appearance to the other 
shuttles, it incorporates all of 
the improvements made after 
the loss of Challenger. 

The orbiter is the first new 
shuttle to enter the fleet since 
1985 when Atlantis was com­
pleted. Former President Rea­
gan authorized the replacement 
for Challenger in 1987. 

Among the improvements in­stalled on Endeavour is a drag parachute designed to reduce loads on the landing gear and brakes. The other shuttles are scheduled to be fitted with such chutes. The major improvement is a series of modifications to extend the time that the shuttle can spend in orbit. 
Hull conducts art workshop for summer 
Special to The Observer 

Chicago artist Richard Hull 
will conduct a painting and 
collage workshop at the 
University of Notre Dame 
from June 17 to June 28 
during the summer session. 

The two-week intensive 
workshop will take place from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. The stu­
dents have a choice of 
studying painting or collage, 
or both, in an abstract or 
realistic form. Those 
participating in the workshop 
will have the opportunity to 
work with Hull and benefit 
from slide lectures, ob­
servation, critiques and indi­
vidual help. 

Hull's paintings were on exhibition in the Phyllis Kind Gallery in New York City this January. 
The workshop will be held in the third floor studio of Notre Dame's Riley Hall of Art and Design, which has north light and is accessible by elevator. Room and board are available on campus. 
The workshop is offered for 3 credits at $112 per credit plus a $25 general fee. Non­credit registration is the same price. Course numbers are ARST 4335 W for undergraduate credit and ARST 535W for graduate credit. Enrollment is limited to 20 students. 
Participants should bring two framed works to exhibit in the ISIS Gallery for the duration of the workshop. 
For further information and application forms, write or call Don Vogl in the department of art, art history and design, at (219) 239­7650; or the summer session office, Room 312 Ad­ministration Building at (219) 239-7282. 

~---..----­
·~ f"rn· 
page 8 
··~''''"~~rf' ' /~·· ·• 
The btise!Ver 


l 
i 
1 
{ 
!· i 
I i ' 
' 
: ~, 
r .. ~. 
I ., 
r~
,... 
,, 
I , 
h-~ 
I· 
~t .• 
6: 
',, 
·, 
.·."( 
,.. . 


and 

Notre Dame's Student Union Board, Saint Mary's Student Activities Board with The Alumni Association and Domino's Pizza™ 

Proudly Present: 
Tte~t for this event are being aistri6utea at tlie La:fortune Information 'Des~ Just show your 9\[fJJ/SMC stuaent orfacu{ty I'D to receive your 'ff}(l£'E tic~t(s) {2 tic~ts/I'D i 2 IfJJ's/person} 


There M~ill be no readmittance once yow enter the shoM~ So sit tight and enjoy! 

I 
t1 Spectacular FireUJorl1s shoUJ UJill folloLU the concert so stay in your seat! 

Friday, April26, 199t, The Observer page 9 
Debaters compete in tourney 
Special to The Observer all over the country, Kozoll said. The teams in the tournament 
Four members of the Notre Dame Debate Team partici­pated in the national Cross Ex­amination Debate Association (CEDA} championship at West­ern Washington University in Bellingham, Wash .. March 28 to April1. 
ND students Matt Salzman, Valerie Renegar, Chris Kozoll and Mike Kluck, along with coach Nancy Wallace, repre­sented Notre Daine at the tour­nament, which consisted of 250 two-person teams from schools were separated into regional groups and took part in eight debates. the first two with teams outside their region and the last six with teams from within the region, according to Kozoll. Teams that won five of these debates continued to the round of64. 
The team of Kozoll and Kluck finished with a record of 4-4. The team of Salzman and Renegar finished with a record of 3-5. 
I 
STUDENT WORLD PREMIERES 
Original projects from Notre Dame Communication & Theatre Film and Video Production Students MONDAY APRIL 29, 7:00 & 9:00 PM Snite Museum or Art Admission $2.00 All proceeds donated to EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER 
~  
~  
1  
Funky music  The Observer/Joe Fabbre  
Tartar Gun performed some ''funky" lyrics Thursday afternoon for a charged audience at the Fieldhouse Mall. Tartar Gun will be performing tomorrow afternoon at Hogstock at the Holy Cross Field. - I  

Cannon 
continued from page 1 
highest levels of the Church is due in large part to his efforts over the years." 
Pelton also has served as re­ligious superior and rector of St. George's College in Santiago, Chile; as professor of theology in the Pontifical Faculty of Theology at the Catholic University of Chile; as peritus to Cardinal Suenens during the final session of the Second Vatican Council; as episcopal vicar for religious institutes of the archdiocese of Santiago; and as correspondent for Religious News Service for the visit of Pope John Paul II to Brazil. 
During recent years he has given special attention to Catholic Church efforts for peace in Central America and to 
WE'VE JUST HIRED SOME EXCEPTIONAL TALENT. 
MARYSANDRO MAX ROBERTS MARISUE COOK BRIAN MOLINARI JOSEPH L~CKER, JR. NANCYPRECHTEL KATHERINE BROWN FRANCINE AYRES ADAM SCHWEICKERT 
The Travelers is proud to announce that the students listed above will be joining us as new employees this year. 
Whether in information systems, employee benefits, operations management, telecommunications, finance, actuarial or one of our many otherentry-level positions or training programs,we look fonvard to the contributions these talented people will make to our business. 
We'd like to thank all ofyou who interviewed with us. And we wish the best of luck to all of this year's graduates. 
TheTraveler~f ' 
You're better ofT under the Umbrella. 
© 1991 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
the development of the basic 
ecclesial communities of Latin 
America. 

IPSM is comprised of five 
centers involved in social justice 
concerns, Catholic liturgical re­
newal and education and sab­
batical programs for clergy, 
religious and lay ministers, in­
cluding a special center for 
those involved in retreat min­
istry. 

Working through IPSM, Notre 
Dame social scientists 
conducted the most extensive 
study of American Catholic 
parish life ever undertaken. 
Under IPSM's aegis, Notre 
Dame students, alumni, faculty 
and staff members participate 
in a wide range of social action 
programs, including Urban 
Plunge and Summer Service 
Projects which send volunteers 
into pockets of poverty across 
the U.S. 

IPSM's five. component centers 
are as follows: 

•The 
Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry offers continuing education to Catholic clergy, religious and lay ministers through a one semester graduate program composed of courses in scrip­ture, systematic theology, moral theology and social concerns, spirituality, psychology and personal development, liturgy and preaching. 

•The 
Center for Pastoral Liturgy, established by the American bishops in 1970 as a national pastoral liturgical in­stitute, participates in the con­tinuing revitalization of liturgy by brmging scholarship to bear on both traditional and con­temporary liturgical practice. 

•The 
Center for Social Concerns integrates issues of justice and peace into the edu­cational process through aca­demic course work, seminars and workshops and by offering a wide range of social service opportunities to University stu­dents, alumni, faculty and staff. Its programs have become na­tional models in experiential education. 

• 
Programs for Church Leaders designs specialized sabbatical programs that offer participants opportunities for renewal, rededication and the discovery of new avenues of service. Among those using the center's services are the American bishops. 

• 
Retreats International, founded in 1928, is a service organization for those engaged in retreat ministry. It links al­most 600 retreat centers in the 


U.S. and Canada through a network organized into 16 geo­graphical regions. 


Viewpoint
page 10 Frida~ April26, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ••.•••••••••••••••.•..•Monica Yant Advertising Manager ••••••Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •.•••..••..•••..••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ..•••..••Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••••••••.••David Dieteman Production Manager ••••.•••••••Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .•.••••••..•••.•••..John O'Brien Systems Manager ..••••••...••..•Mark Sloan Photo Editor •.•••..•••..••..••..•••..Eric Bailey OTS Director .••...•...•... : ....••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor••.•••••••••Emily Willett Controller•••••••••••••••••••••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus 
through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
There seems to be a large number of misconceptions about SUFR on campus. One misconception is that the orga­nization limits its membership to only Afro-American and His­panic students. On the con­trary. SUFR has always ac­cepted and invited any student willing to get involved. SUFR wants to improve the Notre Dame community. and this will certainly affect everyone. 
SUFR's very existence and its membership of more than 200 students should suggest that it is trying to deal with legitimate problems here at Notre Dame. The Administration has been, and still is, completely unwilling to even discuss these problems with members of SUFR. The Administration claims that the bureaucratic process of becom­ing a recognized student orga­nization must precede even a discussion of these issues. However, discussion, even with recognized groups such as the NAACP, has led nowhere. This lack of respect for students' problems and opinions validates the acronym SUFR (Students United For Respect). 
SUFR's demands will improve the quality of the education here for everyone. Certainly, no one will argue with the demand for security for students relying on financial aid. Tuition is in­creasing nine percent this year and will not be matched by 
DOONESBURV 
equal increases in financial aid. Not all students will be able to afford this increase. These monetary hardships cross all races and colors. 
To suggest that the University can not afford to match the increase is to ignore: first, the NBC contract which was to go to financial aid and second, an extremely successful fundrais­ing campaign ($55 million was raised for financial aid, $50 million for direct scholarship endowment and $10 million for a new student aid endowment) (The Observer, March 25). 
If you want more information on SUFR, keep an eye out for letters further explaining the organization and its demands. There will also be open forums in Flanner Tower and Lyons Hall at 7 pm on Thursday, April 25. 
I hope this letter will clear up the misconception regarding the membership of SUFR. SUFR is not threatening or radical. They simply want to see problems that have existed since 1968 dealt with by the Administration. SUFR is willing to listen to your ideas and suggestions regardless of your race and color. I should know, 
because I am white.  am a member and I  
Shawn Duffy SUFR member Flanner Hall April 24, 1991  

Dear Editor: 
Hey Saint Mary's Seniors! Did you know that the national average for annual giving by alumnae for a Catholic woman's college similar to ours is 40 percent? Some schools fall above that average, others below. What? Saint Mary's is only 25 percent! That sure con­tradicts the U.S. News & World Report's ranking of us as 4th in overall score of colleges in our region! 
What is the Annual Fund? The Annual Fund supports the college's operating budget which funds all the "extras" we take for granted on a daily ba­sis: student events, scholar­ships, financial aid, flowers 
Dear Editor: 
The Gulf-Crisis Action Group (GCAG) has declared Monday, April 29 a campus-wide Day of Mourning for the countless vic­tims of the Persian Gulf conflict. Thousands upon thousands of individual human lives have been and continue to be lost as a result of the apocalypotic events that began in early August 1990. In a symbolic around campus, the fountain, etc... Did you know that with­out the Annual Fund many of us on scholarships and financial aid would not have been able to attend Saint Mary's? We didn't think you knew that. That's why our alumnae are rapidly joining forces to support the Annual Fund. 
What can we do to make a difference? Every college spends time and effort to solicit their alumni. You have received an invitation and a pledge card in the mail to join the Senior Leadership Campaign '91. This campaign is our opportunity to say thank you to Saint Mary's and give to the future of the College. The size of our dona­tion (even $5 to $25) is sec-
display of respoect, solidarity, coimpassion, and grief for the dead and their families, we ask that everyone wear black on this day. 
To commemorate this Day of Mourning the GCAG will be sponsoring three events: 1) a 
4:30 gathering at Field House Mall that focuses on the costs of the war, human and domestic; 
2) a 5:15 Requiem Mass at 
ondary to our choice to partici­pate. We can make a differ­ence. From our first day on campus, we. have been part of a community of students. Soon we will be graduates and join the community of Alumnae. As Alums, let's work together as a community by giving above the 25 percent. 
As members of the Saint Mary's Alumnae, it is our privilege to support our Alma Mater. 
For more information about the Senior Leadership Campaign '91, please call 284­4706. 
Lowell Lehmann Senior Leadership Campaign '91 Committee April 20, 1991 
Sacred Heart Church; 3) an 8:00 pm lecture and discussion on the "Consequences of the Gulf War" with Fr. Patrick Gaffney and Prof. Alan Dowty at the 
C. S.C. 

We invite everyone to join us on this Day of Mourning and Reflection. 
Vienna Colucci Mark Kramer Off-campus 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAV 
AT0400

GOT50MeNWS 
HOMe? 7HU!<SC¥N!
fVR Yaf.' fAJ81R& 
W&'RIJ fA)HJrf fX) >VU
P/JCKJNG UP/ IT'S 
60/NG "THINK OF
7/M8 70 HeAD """ 
HOMe? THAT?
HOM&' 
I 

'To spend too much time in studies is sloth. ' 
Francis Bacon 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Frida~April26, 1991 page 11 
Student sa s SUFR should reassess demands 
Dear Editor: 
There has been a lot of dis­cussion about cultural diversity on campus and most recently it has been suggested that an ar­bitrator be brought in to medi­ate the dispute between SUFR and the University. Before this is done, the community should be given the chance to act as arbitrator on each specific is­sue. I know that I have been at a loss as to why some of the demands were made and what the justification behind the de­mands were. 
One example of a demand that I don't understand is that all minority faculty be given immediate tenure: this con­fused me for two reasons; first the definition of minority faculty did not include Asian or Arabic Americans and specifically excluded all non-American citizens. If the goal of the uni­versity is to bring diversity, then someone who grew up in Poland or Germany has as much ability to bring cultural diversity as a professor of Color who grew up in suburban Chicago and quite possibly more. Second, SUFR has not presented any support for their contention that offering imme-
Dear Editor: 
Of all the names mentioned for the recently vacated men's basketball coaching position, I have not once heard the name, "Jerry Tarkanian." While our reputation for uncompromising academic standards for varsity athletes seems to go against the very thought of the Tark ever stepping foot on our campus, actually, I believe he would be very successful in both winning games and graduating students. His record over the past few years has been commendable in both categories. 
To assume that Tark could not run a clean program or graduate his recruits is to as­sume that the coach alone bears these responsibilities. At Notre Dame, we know this is not true. While Digger Phelps did a fantastic job in the area of graduating students, with all due respect to him, so could Tarkanian. Coach Decicco, the athletic academic advisory board, faculty, administration and the student body make it taboo to cheat at Notre Dame. While Mr. Phelps fervently ad­hered to and promoted that standard, it is not as though he stood alone in these accom­plishments. 
There are other reasons to hire Tarkanian if he is at all interested in the position. First, we Catholics, and especially the more liberal ones among us on this campus, are forever seeking to exalt victims and blame society for the indi­vidual's shortcomings. Because of Tarkanian's previous track record with the NCAA, he would fulfill that need in us, ever reminding us of both our sinful nature and our capacity to forgive. There is a lot there to be forgiven. Perhaps he is not being considered precisely because of his background. 

make an informed decision. monies for minorities. I have Other demands help to shed Hopefully, this article will en­always been in favor of basing light on other problems that courage some of the members scholarship monies on need, exist in the University; the need of SUFR to respond in a cool, and I feel that it would be a for gathering space for student rational manner while present­great injustice if a white student organizations is a problem. If ing solid evidence of their from inner-city Chicago was SUFR would clarify their posi­grievances against the Univer­denied the opportunity to attend tion on the proposed multi-cul­sity, especially in comparison to Notre Dame because a student tural center so that it would be University treatment of other who is the son (or daughter) of inclusive of all 20 or 30 cultural students, and about the efficacy a successful banker or doctor organizations on campus, I'm of their proposals. It is just received that scholarship simply sure that the acceptance of the such a calm, well-organized because of the color of their idea would increase. If there presentation of legitimate skin. I would love to see Notre are problems with the operating grievances and effective solu­Dame work to greatly increase policies of Theodore's or of the tions that will earn the respect the number of need-based space or money allocation, it that the members of SUFR de­scholarships that are offered; I would be nice to see the sire, as well as diminishing ra­would also love to see Notre specifics, and I'm sure that cial problems that do exist at Dame increase their recruiting these are policies that affect a Notre Dame. in non-traditional areas, but I lot of people. If SUFR has a can see little justification for problem with idea that middle Chris Kennedy offering scholarships simply level university administrators Graduate Student based on the color of the skin of should have a masters degree, Department of Physics the recipient. the reason they cite for the dis-April 22, 1991 
Law student responds to professor's views 
Dear Editor: erally not chosen in any mean­Now, spare me your critiques 
This letter is my long overdue ingful sense but, rather, it is a ·of feminism, for I hear only reply to the preaching of certain social role perpetuated by men your frightened hostility to Notre Dame Law School (and men's honoring of it) as a those of us who no longer re­professors that has plagued my necessary social condition for spect you as "our providers, our four years here, namely, their the perpetuation of male power protectors." You are our insistence that there is a natu­and control in all aspects of so­oppressors and we speak only ral order between men and cial life -political, economic, the angry language of the op­women and that this natural cultural, etc. The only ones pressed, fortified with new and order involves women remain­who believe this is a natural growing power. Join us in our ing at home to bear and nur­order are the ones who believe quest for true liberty for all or ture the children created by in the rightness or goodness of just prepare to lose that power themselves and by the men with patriarchy, as manifested here you so covet. At the very least, whom they have had sexual in­in Catholic tradition. You are you stay comfortably en­tercourse. If you men, and you only a vocal minority. Don't trenched here where you know who you are, had your become too comfortable, for the cannot touch me, cannot harm way there would be no women world is changing and we are me, as I look forward to leaving admitted to the University of claiming our lives for ourselves here and joining the rest of the Notre Dame because this expe­and all of your romanticized world. rience necessarily empowers fascism will never stop us. I must now offer my love and and inspires women to con­Reduce loan burdens so my thanks for my community of tribute to society in ways other women can fulfill their repro­friends and mentors here and than bearing and nurturing ductive "roles"? No. Reduce tell you how knowing you has children. Why don't you just loan burdens because democ­empowered me against all odds say this and spare us the plati­racy requires an educated citi­to grow and learn in this re­tudes about honoring women in zenry and, like it or not, women pressive place. May your ener­the home? are citizens, too. gies never fail you or I as we 
The implications of this, in Increase male professors' battle the forces of order that light of your world views, are salaries so their wives (notice continually threaten to stifle obvious and insulting. Of the possessive) can stay at and silence our creativity and course women who choose to home and raise their children our expression of who we are. remain in the home deserve (again notice the possessive Peace be with us within the honor and respect and I agree language employed)? No. chaos -love is freedom, free that the Year of Women should Raise the standard of living of love for us all. include a recognition of these all professors to attract the best Anne Hodgins women. But let us not forget to to offer us all the best in Off-Campus articulate that this role is gen-education and learning. April 23, 1991 pute about an assistant for the Office of Minority Affairs, that issue should be addressed. If it is a consistently enforced policy, then SUFR has very little to complain about. If it is an ar­bitrarily enforced policy, then SUFR has a legitimate corn­plaint; unfortunately, no one has given the Notre Dame community enough information about this or most of the other SUFR demands to allow us to 

Dear Editor:  on the graffiti. How conve­ activities during An Tostal to a  
This letter is a  response to  nient.  bare  rnininum.  With  the  
recent  Viewpoint  articles  Also,  I  would  like  to  wackiness and total insanity of  
criticizing SUFR. In addition to  congratulate SUFR on the sit­ An Tostal craziness at a peak,  
many  valid  criticisms  of  in. SUFR has my respect for  who  knows  what  kind  of  
SUFR,  some  people  have  being the first group to really  synergistic effect would be  
complained  about  SUFR's  stand up to the administration  produced by a sit-in during An  
"chalk  graffiti".  To  these  in quite a long time (maybe  Tostal? It is totally, and in all  
people, I merely wish to say:  ever). If other groups had the  other ways, inconceivable that  
quit whining. The graffiti lasts  determination of SUFR, the  we could expect anything but  
only until it rains (namely,  possibilities are limitless: co­ complete world anarchy to  
twenty four hours max) and  ed housing; smaller class size;  result.  
wastes  no  paper.  and indubitably,  a  revolving  
Furthermore,  those  who  Mary.  John X. Eiler  
dislike the messages are perfectly free to stomp or spit  Finally, I want to make a plea to SUFR to keep their  206 Pangborn Hall April 24, 1991  

diate tenure wold allow the University to retain more mi­nority faculty, or even shown that minority faculty are more likely to leave. It would greatly help the SUFR argument if they could show that minority faculty who were hired by the Uni­versity were more likely to leave than their non-minority counter parts. It would also be helpful if SUFR could get a hold of these people, both minority and non-minority and find out why they left. Obviously, if they left for reasons that were unrelated to tenure, then granting them tenure would be of little enticement for them to stay. 
Another demand that I am a little confused about is the de­mand of increased scholarship 
Lest we forget St. Augustine's 
sordid past, or St. Paul's. And 
where would we be without 
these pillars...these sinners 
turned saints? 
Finally, this University has got a fantastic track record with Armenians. While the Tark may have cheated in the not-so­distant past, he and his people have been victims of two great slaughters; once by the Turks and once by the Huskies. How can he be expected to be sinless, having been raised in a culture victimized by godless despots? Indeed, it is our mis­sion as Christians to evangelize to this 30 game/year winning potential proselyte. And what better way to do that than to have him coaching our team? 
If these are not good enough reasons to gamble on the guy, let's not forget that he is guar­anteed to fill the seats, and quite possibly bring us our first basketball national champi­onship. Filled stadiums and championship caliber teams equate to money, money, money. Money means new buildings, better equipment and more opportunities for non­varsity athletics, and easier subsidization of non-revenue generating varsity athletics. A parking garage would be nice, too. 
Finally, there are those among us who believe ours is not a sufficiently ethnically di­verse university. If there is one thing Tarkanian can offer im­mediately, it is ethnic diversity. If there is, in fact, a good rea­son not to hire Mr. Tarkanian, it is only that a blue and gold shark would clash with our traditional leprechaun mascot. I see no reason why the two can't coexist peacefully. 
Tom Dixon, 
Off-campus 
April 21, 1991 




t 
I' 
!. 
ll'r 
I! 
I 
' 
'\.
'· 
1\ 
l 
'i·, 
-r 
i 
I 

APRIL 26·28 
~ 
~ 
l 
~ 

IIMUSIC 

Bone Forest, McCormick's, 10:00 p.m. Oliver Syndrome, Ctub Shenanigan's, 10:00 p.m. Van Camp, Center Street, 9:30 p.m. 
' 

Jester, Clob 23, 10:30 p.m. Tartar Gun & Way Past Tense, Oar House, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS The Good Woman of Setzuan, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 
sa 
ay
I 

I 
~ 
MUSIC Southside Denny, Center Street, 9:30p.m. Goober and the Peas, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. 
! t 

EVENTS l Antostal Picnic, Stepan Center, 11 :00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Choir Concert: Saint Mary's College & Saint John's 
1.f University Choirs, Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's, 8:00 p.mi The Good Woman of Setzuan, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m.~ 
Alpha Kappa Alpha Neophyte Step Show, Indiana University at South Bend, Administration Bldg., 11 :30 p.m. 

y 

MUSIC Voice Recital: Soprano Maryann Flock, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's, 2:30p.m. 
EVENTS 

The Good Woman of Setzuan, Washington Hall, 3:10p.m 
FRIDAY "Icicle Thief," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m. "The Rescuers Down Under," Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

'"Icicle Thief, .. Annenburg Auditorium, 7:00 &9:30p.m. "The Rescuers Down Under," Cushing Auditorium, 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 

Guess Mo's coming 1 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Accent Editor 

hen most people hear of a free concert on a college campus, they 

expect someone like Jane's Addiction, Pixies or something one might hear on WVFI. 
But for this year's An Tostal finale, The Guess Who will take the stage in "Moose" Krause Stadium for a free concert for all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty. 
That's right. The Guess Who, whose music has been a staple on album-oriented rock stations since 1965, will perform from 9 to 11:30 p.m. Saturday, playing tunes more commonly heard on WAOR than on WVFI. 
The concert, sponsored Notre Dame's Student Union Board and Saint Mary's Student Activ­ities Board together with the Notre Dame Alumni Association and Domino's Pizza, will cap off a whirlwind day of An Tostal festivities. 
The concert will be more than just a good time, according to An Tostal '91 Chairman Bren­nan Harvath. Donations will be collected at the concert for the YWCA Women's Shelter in South Bend. 
"It is the Year of Women, and what better way to culminate SUB's involvement in the Year of Women than to give a dona-
T 
H E 
s 
I 
s 
s H 
0 
w 


tion to the shelter," said Har­vath. 
"It is a needy shelter and it rarely gets donations, so it (donating to the shelter) was the one of the best ideas we had," he added. 
The idea of having The Guess Who come to Notre Dame sur­faced when a member of the An Tostal com-mittee heard the band play in a small club in In­dianapolis in February, Harvath said. 
"We looked into it and found out they were within our bud­get," he said. "There were many votes taken in SUB 

By CHRIS SEELEN AND 
MICHELLE DEVERS 
Accent Writers 
A 
dd the University of Notre Dame's Masters in Fine Arts (MFA) Student Thesis Show to the list of coming attractions during the second weekend of An Tostal. This exhibition of works by five MFA students of the department of art, art history and design will include a variety of media such as sculp­ture, photographs, oils, and handmade books. 
During the opening, Douglas Bradley, curator of ethno­graphic arts, will present the Walter R. Beardsley Award of Best of Show. 
The five MFA students partic­ipating in the exhibition are Anne Montgomery, Steve Hansen, Kuna Na, Miklos Si­mon, and Douglas White. 
Anne Montgomery's work consists of handmade books of original photographs on hand­made flax paper. The books fo­cus on a literary analysis of art with her black and white pho­to a hs resented in a narra­tive, text-oriented fashion, stemming from Montgomery's background in linguistics. 
Steve Hansen is displaying a 
. blend of constructual and sur­real sculptures in glass, vinyl, and metal boxes. In his sculp­tures, Hansen tries to break away from the boundaries of sculpture by incorporating al­tered pictures of generalized body types. In other pieces shown by Hansen, he combines large scale photographs with metal pieces that direct the eye and add to the meaning of the works. 
Exhibiting large scale ab­stract oil paintings with organic references, Kuna Na strives to portray an "inner landscape." The process of her work is important, as she paints with her fingers to better convey the organic process and emotion she displays in creating her "visceral shapes." According to Na, her work is "truly abstract." 
Miklos Simon will display large scale neoclassical figura­tive sculptures. His work has many references to nineteenth centurv monuments. It contains 
t
,. 
'i 

page 13 
oNotre Dame 

tuse Stadium as a grand finale to In part of a jam-packed weekend p for the main concert. 
meetings and in some of my 
classes, and it was 
overwhelming for The Guess 
Who.'' 
The Canadian-based group 
had 14 Billboard Top 40/album 
oriented rock hits from 1965 to 
1974 including, "These Eyes," 
"Laughing," "Hand Me Down 

four large lions, sculpted after the lions at the entrance of the Fraternity Hall at Northwestern University by Lorado Taft, which are positioned around a column. Four glass cases are placed around the central piece, containing "realistic representations of various inaugurational rituals." In his work, Simon strives for "the demystification of sculpture." 
Douglas White exhibits oil paintings and portraits. Ac­cording to White, his works are "figurative paintings that hint at satire." White has a unique style which can be both disturb­ing and humorous in the use of exaggerated features and ex­pressions in his portraits. 
The show opens Sunday, April 28 at the Snite Museum of Art in O'Shaughnessy Galleries West. The Student Art Forum of the University of Notre Dame will host a reception honoring the M.F.A. students in the Museum atrium from 2 to 4 p.m. 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday from 1 to 4p.m. 
World," "Undun," and probably 
their best-known hit, 
"American Woman." 
Although the band's lineup 
has changed since its early 
days, original members Jim 
Kale (bass) and Garry Peterson 
(drums) anchor the current 
lineup. Joining them will be 
Ken Carter (lead vocals), Dale 
Russell (guitar and vocals), and 
Mike Hanford (keyboards). 
Although the concert is free, 
students and faculty need to 
pick up tickets at the Informa­
tion Desk in LaFortune. 
The tickets can be picked up 
with a student or faculty 10 
during regular Information 
Desk hours (until 9 p.m. today 
or from noon to 9 p.m. Satur­
day). There is a limit of 2 tick­
ets/2 ID's per person. 
The concert is part of "Psychedelic Psaturday," a jam­packed day made even more eventful since "Hogstock II" was rained out last Saturday. 
Thus, Saturday's events will feature a lunchtime picnic on Stepan Field, ali-day music provided by campus bands in honor of Hogstock, the dreaded "mud pits," as well as various competitions on Stepan Field. 
Bone Forest, a campus band, will open the concert, which will be followed by a fireworks show, the finale to Saturday's activities. According to the An Tostal booklet, this "National Band Concert" will become an An Tostal tradition. 
T H 
E 
s 
I 
s 
s H 
0 
w 


Latin Expressions does it all 
By LISA EATON 
Managing Editor 

hat do you get when you mix the Keenan Revue, Black Images 

and the International Student Organization (ISO) Festival together? The answer is Latin Expressions. 
The second annual Latin Ex­pressions variety show will be Friday night at 7:45 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The show is sponsored by the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) and will be a mixture of comedy, song and dance fo­cussing upon the themes of the Latin American culture. "It is a variety show that highlights our talents," says Manuel Espino, the organization's out-going president. 
Espino sees Latin Expressions as a combination of the other variety shows that exist on campus. "We patterned it after Black Images, we have the singing of ISO and the acting of Keenan Revue." 
Many of the comedy skits and the one-act play draw on the stereotypes often associated with the Latin American com­munity. "We are making fun of the stereotypes of our race. We are laughing at them because we see how ridiculous they are," says Espino. "We don't want people to take offense. It is comedy." 
Last year Latin Expressions was born due in large part to the success of Black Images, the variety show put on by African-American students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. When LULAC was created last spring, the students were look­ing for something to do. Ac­cording LULAC member Beatriz Cruz, ..We wanted something that would become LULAC. That something is Latin Ex­pressions." 
The planning for this year's show has been going on for many months and the result of this hard work will be 1 7 acts composed of comedy skits, a one-act play called "Los Vendi­dos" or ..The Sell-outs," singers, and dance performances by Ballet Foklorico and others 
The theme of this year's show is "Sabor," which is means "flavor" in Spanish. "The whole thing is going to be fun and 'flavorful,'" says Espino. 
Although the focus of the event is Latin, the performers are not exclusively Hispanic. Through flyers that were sent out at the beginning of the year and by word of mouth, LULAC has invited anyone who would like to perform something that is a part of their culture to be a part of Latin Expressions. Last year, for example, Professor John Kennedy performed a number of Chilean and Irish folk songs as part of the first Latin Expressions show. 
"This is really the highpoint of spring for LULAC," says Espino. "It is really our last big event and we encourage everyone to come. It should be fun." 
The performance should last about two hours. Tickets are currently available at the LaFortune Information Desk for the cost of $2 for students and $3 for non-students. Tickets will also be available at the door at $3 for students and $4 for non-students. 
n-~~--------~------------------------------------~~~--------­
t' 0 I •.. .. ..~ • ; .. 4. 
page 14 The Observer Friday, April 26, 1991 
1st TIME EVER! NEW& USED 
CARS 
BEST PRICES OF THE YEAR! 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
·······························~
•

TO TEST OUR ADVERTISING : : TEST COUPON ADDITIONAL
L------------------------------­
BRING THIS COUPON TO THE : TO TEST OUR ADVERTISING
•

MCI BOOTH AND RECEIVE A : BRING THIS COUPON &RECEIVE 
$
FREE ~ ONE PAIR OF 
OFF
3·MINUTE : ANY 
SOCKS FOR

PHONE CALL : ATHLETIC SHOES 
: TO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD! : 1000s OF PAIRS OF SOCKS 50%·70% OFF! LIMIT 2 WITH COUPON
• 

SLEEPING 
REBOOK 
BAGS
PUMPS 
S12
~59 
2-MAN TENTS s19
$79 
5-MAN TENTS s59 
LEATHER JACKETS 
FROM 

sgg 
CYCLE • BOMBER LAMB SKIN • MORE 

ANSWERING MACHINES 
S29 
RADAR DETECTORS 
SHOES 


$
$ 

Friday, April 26, 1991 
page 15 
FREE PARKING 

SATURDAY 10 AM-9PM SUNDAY 11 AM-5PM 
TIRES TVs VCRs CARS NIKES LEVIS TENTS POOLS GOLF 
SP~S 

SOCKS COs 
STEREOS LA GEARs REEBOKs WICKER PICTURES PILLOWS JEWELRY PURSES CARPET RECORDS TAPES T-SHIRTS 
FURNITURE WATERBEDS EARRINGS MATTRESSES LEATHER COATS HOME IMPROVEMENTS WHEEL CHAIRS SCUBA GEAR SA TEL LITE DISHES SUNGLASSES NO-RUN PANTY HOSE MUCH MORE!!!!! 
4FOOT 


5000 RECORD 
KENWOOD 
GIANT FLOOR 
ALBUMS 

CD PLAYERS
PILLOWS 


99C 
$

$ 



MUCH MORE 

WITH REMOTE 
WHILE-U-WAIT 
WATERBEDS 
JEWELRY
@I•l~·M~;i4 

GOLD . . >
EYEGLASSES 
SILVER
BENETTON AND

$ 
FASHION
FRAMES$ 
JORDACHEJEANS 

MORE
LENSES 
UPTO 

COMPLETE 
s 99
MATTRESS· FRAME 
70°/o
BRING YOUR PRESCRIPTION 
HEATER • LINER
OR YOUR CURRENT GLASSES 
OFF 
-~---------,..---~----~----------~--~-~.•"!"!"'~
... •. ~.~~---~---~-------.....~---------­
r 
-l ...... 

\ Frfcfay, 'April 26, 1991
page 16 The Observer 
Did Sorin hitch his wagon to the American Dream? 
From day one, Edward Sorin and the founding Brothers could see, I think, that their new school in the wilderness was pencilled in on God's calen­
dar to have a "rendezvous with destiny." 
In 1842, the great virgin forests were still standing in the heartland; the pollution poisoning the fish had not yet reached our rivers. The air was heady with the wine that each season had to offer as the earth summered and wintered, blossomed or became fruitful. 

:I 
The flora and fauna, I sus­pect, seemed to the newcomers the outward and visible signs~ like the bread, wine, oil and wa­ter of the sacraments-of the new nation's state of grace. 
By Sorin's day, the New Eden no longer stretched from sea to shining sea: with the coming of the white man, sin entered the 
garden. Sorin must have been aware of the as-yet unspoiled beauty existing on the far side of the frontier towns, where the settlers had not yet scarred the land. 

From the beginning, Sorin and his companions must have . I had a dream that excited them as the dream of angels, ascend­ing and descending Jacob's ladder, excited the biblical pa­triarches. It was a dream of service to the Church and to the Gospel which would exalt Christ 
through homage to Our Lady. 
Though the Dream was Catholic, Christian, and ortho­dox, it was not a dream the young priest could export in its entirety to Father Moreau, founder of the Holy Cross order, at the mother-house 

I 
I 1 
!j
I, 
l I 
I 
j 
' 
back in France. 
How could a French Provin­cial, who had grown up in a world still shaken by the back­lash from the Napoleonic wars, appreciate the greatness of General Washington, first in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his countrymen? 
How could the Founder make sense of the antics of a mis­sionary who had "gone native," adopting the ethnics of Brother Jonathan. the Yankee pedlar, sharp-eyed in making land deals? 
How could he tolerate a member of his own religious community-who had voluntar­ily allowed his wings to be clipped when he took vows of poverty, chastity and obedi­ence-to wheel and deal in property like a mule leasing his farm, after his Superior had ordered him to mail home his every surplus franc, for the support of the property in Le­Mans? 
How could you tell French prelates-and the flunkies servile to them in middle man­agement-about anything as breathtaking as the American Dream? 
As bureaucrats in a Church whose corruption was cen­turies-old, they were battle­scarred from their warfare with the anti-clericals who con­trolled the government. All over Europe, nabobs, religious and secular, in power or out of power, waited for the experi­ment in democracy to fail; how could you persuade them of America's Manifest Destiny? 
Moreau, on the nerve-racking end of a 5,000 mile communica-
LeHers to a Lonely God 

tions gap, waited for Sorin to take a pratfall that would bankrupt the newly-fledged Congregation of Holy Cross. He wrote letters that were never answered, biting his fingernails and becoming a saint. Finally, he took a boat to America to box Sorin's ears. 
He must have been impressed with the sight of Notre Dame in its infancy, raising the Cross where the river bends south. Sorin, explaining himself, must have charmed and appeased his father in God; once Moreau was on this side of the water, he had a better understanding of the high-handedness. Once he was safely back in France, however, he again perceived Sorin as a scoundrel causing the mother-house grief. 
Here, then, as breathlessly as I can tell it, is Notre Dame's creation myth, in the version I know best. This University started as a Dream of the founder in the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Dream has been passed on from one generation to another. 
Actually, it's part of the American Dream, like the first Thanksgiving, Lincoln's letter to Mrs. Bixby, or the return of the swallows to Capistrano­part of the myth and memory that make Americans proud of their native land. 
Myth, as I'm using it here, is 

Father Robert Griffin 

only a way of describing reality --as an event or as a flesh-and­blood human being-which has mellowed, and become dream­like and larger than life. Notre Dame is the source of never­ending myths. 
Some of Notre Dame's most legendary figures are like the Unknown Soldier: their names are known principally to God. You can find out many of the names, forgotten in this gener­ation, if you visit the cemeteries where the Holy Cross Religious are buried. 
I'm not writing this piece to pay tribute. All of us should remind ourselves how impor­tant the Dream was. Sorin him­self couldn't have foreseen that eventually the Dream would be­come bigger than all outdoors. 
Why waste time asking whether Notre Dame is presently great or not; eventu­ally we may discover that we don't have any conception of what it means to be great as a center of Christianity, impor­tant to the religious world as 
M.I.T. is important to the scien­tific world. 
To millions of believers, the Vatican is losing credibility as a center of unity; the magisterium sounds to them like yesterday's bad news. If it became a think­tank as prestigious as Prince­ton's Institute of Advanced Studies, Notre Dame could be­come the Church's principal ally in shoring up the ruins. 
As a haven for Christian scholars, Notre Dame could serve the Church as an ad hoc magisterium-though not com­petitively, or in a way that tries to upstage the Holy Father as a shepherd-until Rome gets its act together, if that act is ever in disarray. 
Maybe Sorin was intuitive enough to see that the flagship of Catholic education he was building in America could serve the successor of the Fishermen temporarily as an ark of salva­tion. Maybe this was an idea he felt he could not share with Moreau at the mother-house. 
Didn't Father Hesburgh keep telling us that the truth that makes men free can liberate us from the kind of Faith that shrinks the mind into mere big­otry? Didn't he dream-as Sorin may have done-that it could be Notre Dame's mission to serve the Church as the greatest Catholic university in the world? 
All this reminds me that lads who promote the Playboy phi­losophy in their letters to The Observer sound like latch-key kids needing the guidance and good taste of wise parents. They're rebels without a cause, if they claim .the place is run like a cloister. 
Notre Dame shouldn't have to become a league of nations, to keep the students from feel­ing unappreciated; there should be enough love going around to fulfill everyone. How can we consider ourselves Christians, if we fail to respect and care for one another? 

HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY MERI!! 
KEEP DRINKING Love, L
BAA!!! 

A 
u 
A 
A 
& 
M 
E 
G A N 

• 

: The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. . . . : 
: an essential ingredient in your : : career planning strategy : 
•• • Get a great summer job or work during breaks in corporate •••• Chicago. •••• • Bridge the gap between school and first time career placement. ••
•t • Experience the wide variety of corporate environments in •• : Chicago. : : • Receive skill development for automated corporate environments. : : • Receive career counseling. : : • Participate in competitive employee benefit and bonus program. : 
' / 
I P.-~~" i.
• -The Choice for Temporaries, Inc. • Chicago •312-372-4500 •
• 
~······································~··~·········································· 
Friday, April 26, 1991 
The Observer page 17 
The Oblelver accepts claasifieds fNery business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. •the 
Notre Dame office, 31-4 Lafonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's ol1ice, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clasalieds II 3p.m. All classlfleds
Classifieds 
rrust be prepald. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, lnduding al spaces. 
CONDO for summer rental. Close to NO. 2 bd, furnished.Rent 

NOTICES WANTED
I I 
flexible!! Call 272-5708. 

TYPING AVAILABLE Moving to Chicago? Female ND LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 415 287-4082 grad needs roommate to share 2 BDRMS. $700. 282·1014. bedroom apartment. Must be a non­Resumes .... Professional quality smoker. If interested, please call Bed and Breakfast for 272-5667. {Tom Williams) Ann at (312) 935-1958. graduation. A private bedroom and 
bath in lovely $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS private home within 12 mins. hours 10-5:30 everyday NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax of campus. Pandora's Books 233-2342 Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For Call 272-5989 corner of NO Ave. &Howard info. Call6t5-n9-5505 Ext. K-541. 
SUMMER SUBLETIOR NEEDED Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Retail security in store. Store Turtle Creek Apts, 2 bdrm Winning Hotel, has rooms tor detective, experience preferred but sublet from June-Aug. Graduation weekend. Located at not necessary. Training program. Call x3828 Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles Benefits include major medical, lite from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 insurance, vacations, available FURN 2-BDRM APT, SUMMER, nights with $110 deposit per room. dental plan, available 401 K UNIV VILLAGE, $195/MO Send letter with deposit to 3011 retirement plan and more. Send 271-8622 Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, IN 46514. background info. with phone #to 
L.P. Manager, 841 S. Kalamazoo 3 Bedroom House TYPING: Accurate and Fastl Street, Paw Paw, Ml 49079. Close To Campus Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; $555 Mo.+ Dep. 
Evenings 684-7507. A major retail chain is accepting 232-3616 applications for a special security STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF position at a local location. This is a Roommate for June 1 -Female TIME? full-time position earning nonsmoker. Runaway Bay, 2 bdrm, 
lASER QUALITY TERM competitive hourly rate. No 2 full bath, wash/dry in apt., PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK experience necessary. Benefits fireplace, 110 Lakeview, furnished. TURNAROUND. indude major medical, life $295/mth. No deposit. Stephanie 
MAILBOXES insurance, vacations, available (H) 259-9939. (W) 232-3992 277-6245. dental plan, available 401K Ext. 8253. 
retirement plan, and more. To apply, TYPING term please write to: L.P. Manager, 841 House for Rent papers/reportslleners/resumes. Pick S. Kalamazoo Street, Paw Paw, Ml $170/Mon up &delivery available. 2n-5134 49079. lndude phone #, address, Call287-2159 Paul Cathy days available for work, and name 
of newspaper ad seen in. 2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE RESUMES/TERM CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR PAPERS/THESES Guaranteed Used Dorm Size Refrigerator SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL Lowest Rates. 256-6657. 3.1 Cubic Foot ERICA 283-4768 OR MONIOUE 
In good working condition 283-4717. BASEBALL FAN NEEDED ... Call258-1365 to buy my ticket for White Sox vs. Need female roommates for Fall Yankees game this Sunday at the STUDENTS &GRADS Cruise Ship and Spring semesters at Turtle new Commiskey (I have a conflict). Jobs $300 to $900 per week. Creek. This INCLUDES bus transportation Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M­Amanda, 271-1995 to and from the park ( 1 0:00 F (317) 452-8809 E1<t. C4. departure, 6:30 return). I paid $22 Looking for female summer but will sacrifice for $15 or best Third (male) roomate needed for a roomates to share Oakhill condo offer. Please help me out here and 3-bedroom house next year. Nice 284-4110 take in some great major league house. Cheap. action! Call Brendan@ #2331. 15-min walk from campus. CASTLE POINT 2 bdrm apt-rent for 
x3234 Bob summer 273-1340 

LOST/FOUND Need Roomate Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. I Summer; Year won't try and dazzle you with a big $200.00 Mo. "CHEAP!!!!!!" s~gn. Oh.. IJLU_e_s_s .I
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! 
Call Lena just did. Chris 273-9355 I LOST MY CROSS ON 3127 IN #3517GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. ISILVER CROSS ON A BLACK WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) won't try and dazzle you with a bigROPE. IT HAS GREAT people to occupy a Turtle Creek "CHEAPIIIIII" sign. Oh, I guess I
SENTIMENTAL VALUE I A Apt. for summer. More affordable just did. Chris 273-9355 
REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU 
than a townhouse. Call Jim or John 
FOUND IT PLEASE CALL: 
X11n. Turtle Creek Aprt for summer. IMIKE AT 1788 
won't try and dazzle you with a big WANTED: USED VAN "CHEAPIIIJII• sign. Oh, I guess ILOST: 2 Video tapes in the North 
In Decent Condition just did. Chris 273-9355 
Dining Hall. I left them there on Preferably Cheaplll 
Thur. (4-18) during lunch. Please 
Call283-4206 STUDIO APARTMENTS calli! NO Questions Asked II 
Leave name,#,$ 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS Chris Balint 233-5882 $250-285 
I 
2888595

FOUND: A diamond ring near the 
FOR RENT CAll
I

library and Comptmath bldg on April 17th. Call283-4570 to identify. '---------J. FOR SALE 
GRAD. WEEKEND • LOST: 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Two keys (for dorm room and mail 219-291-7153. NO PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO slot) on Fightin' Irish keychain, YOUR STUDENTS HOUSING COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS. 
between SOH and Library, Sunday An attractive studio in lovely old 
night. GOOO CONDITION, CLOSE TO 
mansion near N.D. $300 now No sentimental value attatched, just renting for summer &fall 91 call NO. LET'S EXPLORE a matter ot convenience. Reward? 2879624 POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM) Well, if you're cute (and of the FEMALE persuasion) I'll give you a MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our FOR SALE: EVERYTHING MUST GO 
big wet kiss (optional). N.D. alumnae family for the most Thank you much! John x2331 attractive, well-maintained 1 Sofa 
1 Window Seat (FI & Gr)

apartments on Chicago's North ••••••Lostll!ll"•••••3-4 disks in a blue 2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) 
side! Hardwd floors, great doset plastic disk case; one says 'resume space, lndry tacils., conveniently 1 6 foot ladder junk' on it. PLEASE return!!! located to public transp and 1 small Refrigerator Reward!I!I Call Mark 273-9058. shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. Call X1583 We'd love to help you out! LOST MONDAY NIGHT ON DEB'S 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 21 BIRTHDAY: Bracelet-1Jold links Buying a car? Good rates. Call me
FOR RENT FOR RENT kind of in shape of hearts about BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE for a quote 9:30-6:00,289-1993. quarter inch wide. Possibly lost in Office near campus. 
WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT. library computer lab, CJ's, or $600 FOR FOUR. Commons. (Nice combo, eh?!) 10 MONTH LEASE. 89 GEO Spectrum 
PLEASE HELP, sentimental CALL 271-0373 Great Gas Mileage-value .... REWARDII CALL 1279. 45/city 50/highway Thanks. Still has factory warranty 
TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES 
excellent buy, call Pat
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE 

FOUND: Key chain with Eiffel Tower IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER 288-5678 on bleachers behind Bookstore. Call 3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE 2488 to claim. Macintosh Image Writer II
NORTH OF ND 2773097 

Printer For Sale. Less than one FOUND: Single silver earring with FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, year old. Excellent Condition! black circular inset. Call 2488 to AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, 
$300. Call Kathie claim. @ 4045.
UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 

FOUND: ring by LaFortune 87 Saab 900 Turbo, red, sunroof, cal14060 auto, 3-dr, low miles,$11 ,250, Ph
4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr. 
2n-8898

Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. Lost: Black Gruen Sportwatch on north quad in front of BP. If found House with indiv. Rooms avail. Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. please call Alicia at x3427 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. Price is Negotiable. 
Please Call 2805 

Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1 n6. lost: Brown leather bracelet wt gold clasp. Mon. 23. Call Summer Rent 
TICKETS

X3950. Studio Apt., Turtle Creek Furnished, utilities induded. LOST: GOLD HEART WITH Call AI 273-9583. 
I need GRADUATION TIXII 

AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ON GOLD Call x1443 -leave message. 
ri.IAII\J aoNtMn arr r-or:aT 
Need at least one and up to three grad tix. Please call Scott @ 258-4324 
SENIORS! I need 1 Grad ticket Please call Martha x4271 
Need 2 GRADUATION TICKETS for grandmothers' 1st/only trips to ND. $$11 Call Tom 3698 or 3697/recorder. 
PERSONAL 
IBM, COMMClOORE, OR APPLE. Cash paid for all makes of Computers and Software. Computer software for IBM and IBM compatible, Commodore or Apple, $2 each. WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 
NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and trade, gold, silver, diamonds, jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, camcorders, cameras, air conditioners, miaowaves, tools, Nintendo's, computers. OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there with AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the Midwest, $160 from the East Coast. (As reported in NY Times and Let's Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000 
I got it. Come. And be my baby. 
Tired of paying high taxi tares? Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi to arrive? I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and can give rides to the airport/train/bus station the weekend after finals for just $5. Call Rene at 2n-9468 to reserve a spot. 
Favor Requested and Granted. Say this prayer 9 times per day for 8 days...it has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised. 
May the S-acred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved, and preserved throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude help of the hopeless pray for us. Thank you St. Jude, Sacred Heart, and Mary! ..J.S. 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2026. 
"TN o• 
TROOP NOTRE DAME If you missed us at St Ed's Carnival, there's still time ... See us: Fri. April 26 at 
An Tostal -3:30 and Latin Expressions "It's all in the way you groove· ·TN o· 
........................ 
YARD PARTY AT THE SQUARE 
Friday, April 26th Look for ticket sales all week-cups will be distributed upon arrival. Lots of beer, music, food and fun. Don't miss itlll 
........................ 
MOVING TO CHICAGO at the end of the summer and I am looking for a female non-smoker roommate to share an apartment in the Lincoln Park/North Side area. Please call GinaX4853. 

JUNIORS & SENIORS ... 
If you have typing skills, P.C. experience & it you are seeking a permanent or temporary office position in Chicago, call Angela Ede at Interviewing Consultants, Inc., 3t2-9n-46t1. 
They're moist They're loud They're Bone Forest 6-8 Friday On the quad 10-2 Friday, McCormick's 1-1 :45 Sat., Picnic 8-9 Sat., Before the Guess Who at Moose Krause Stadium 10-2 Sat. Alumni Senior Club. Join the Boneheads for weepy hairiness. And pie. Yum yum. 
Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We love you. 
ADOPTION· HAPPILY MARRIED PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH TO ADOPT A BABY TO LOVE. WE ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT 
••••••••H<>C;STCX::K•••••••• The weather was too cold on Saturday, but don't despair! The supreme festival of peace, love, and music will take place on Stepan Field this Saturday. The music will start at 11 am, and there will be a new band each hour. Watch for posters with times and details! 
•••••···~sTc:x::K•••••••• 
Ship it home NOW and avoid the lines during finals I THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
239-6714 Call for hours & U.P.S. info. 
U.P.S. U.P.S. U.P.S. 
Brenda, It's been smile after smile Since the day we met But I must remind You You ain't seen nothin' yet HAPPY ONE YEAR SINCE WE MET AND FELL IN LOVEll!, Mark 
VOTE FOR JOHN O'BRIEN FOR UGLY MAN ON CAMPUSIIII He11 give you Iovin' like you've had before!ll 
TARTAR GUN with WAY PAST TENSE at the Oar House FRIDAY NIGHT go someplace a tad different for a change 

SUMMER WORK Earn $482/week+ Gain the job experience Fortune 500 companies are looking for. Must be hard working and like to travel. 
Informational Meetings: Thurs. 1:00 and 3:00 MontgomeryTheater Lafortune 
5:30 and 7:30 

Rm 124 Hayes-Healy Fri. 1:00 and 3:00 Montgomery Theater Lafortune 
5:30 and 7:30 Rm 124 Hayes-Healy 

SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE 
FOR SALE: Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE tor only $50 and own it for next year. Call Scott at X1650. 
SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE 
Rich, Aaron, Jan and other Keenan "men•, Revenge is sweet. Who are your true friends? Rose, Ellen 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? NEED A BED? DOUBLE BED FOR SALE-VERY COMFORTABLE-LESS THAN A YEAR OLD. CALL ANNE AT lAFAYETTE SQUARE 288..()597 
Happy Birthday, Tiffany Ill Hope you don't feel as old as you areI 
love, your roomie 

ATTENTION: Attractive red-headed female from Fairfeild seeking a 6'3• obnoxious Bruin's fan who likes the Alarm .......Do you know where you were three years ago today? 
And now, the second annual first anniversay, ANTI-TOSTAL 
featuring: CHISEL TARTAR GUN BEDSPINS 
WAY PAST TENSE Sunday, 4128191, in front of Stanford Hall. THRUST ON !II 
c c 
H H 
I I 
s 

E E L L 
SAT. -hogstock SUN. -anti-tostal sponsored by the notre dame smart punx dub ...thrust on... 
FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. 
STUDENTS: Going home for the summer? Need a place to stash your stuff? We have the place tor you I JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE 272-2400 
THE NOT-SQ.ROYAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY Presents "THE COMEDY OF ERRORs· By William Shakespeare 
Friday and Saturday, April 26 &27 at 8 p.m. IN THEODORE'S 
(on monday, April 22) Meri-4 
Top Ten Reasons For Attending The SENIORIGRAOUATEtALUMNI PICNIC 
10. It's free. 
9. Food and refreshments are free. 
8. A great opportunity for a cheap date. 
7. We're having it after the Bugs Bunnyffweety Hour. 
6. Alumni Club presidents and officers are looking for a few good men and women. 
5. A great opportunity to add to your plastic silverware collection. 
4. It's induded in your tuition. 
3. We promise not to throw mud at you. 
2. You will meet a lot of great people and see a lot of friends. 
1. Those plaid pants in your closet have been waiting for somewhere to go. Here's a perfect occasion. 
Saturday, April 27th 11:30-1:30 at Alumni/Senior Club. 
All students must have a valid student ID and driver's license. 
To all ENGL 491 warriors: "Man 

..
carries with him his own private war· 
Denis and Mike ­Thanks for all your patience and hard work. We couldn't have done 
it without you. Laurie, Joe, and Adine 
Beth, Maria, and Syi­Foutrez-vous...and it you don't like it then tant pis. 
Debra 
SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR COLLECT. BOXES PLUS LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. 287-6041 
HEY KEVIN CARRIGAN here's a pin to pop your big head you think you're so cool we wish you were dead You and your Dillon buds are so dose-knit but we think you are weak as s-tl 
UMOC Results As of Thursday 
. 
1 .Sean Murdock-2,808 2 .Father Mike Sullivan-2,200 
3. J.T. Burke-t ,064 4. John O'Brien-769 5. Chris Carrol-422 6. Rob Kuerren-358 7. Brennan Harvath-193 8. Rob Pasin-100 9. Christopher Chung-55 10. Earl Giblin-50 11. Mark Manning-47 12. Rick Wilson-25 
Last Day Today­Fieldhouse Mall 4:00-5:30 
•••••HAPPY 21 st BIRTHDAY•••• CHRISTINA PARSONSII Love, Peanut and the gallery! 
~ 
PATTitS 
...0'-I"III(T IUI'Gl~ 
DO YOURSELF A FV.VOR 

......_.............. .
....... _
------­

DINNERFOR2 Meri-3 
(on tuesday, April23) 
FOR $8.99 PlckanytwoGounnet Sandwiches. two garden Salads, 
plus your c:hdce d French Meri-2 
(on wednesday, April 24) 
Fries or Onion Rings and 2 Mini-Sundaes 

(on thursday, April 25) 
expiration date 5/19 

Meri-1 
Buy any 1ize IUIIdae and 

(on friday, April 26)  SUNDAE  recdwr a nc:ond one ol the  
99~  1ame llze for 99C  
expiration date 5/19  


·.t.' t.\.tf,,lll.l 


, I 
q !I I 
I 
11 
I 
ll 
L .\ ·: 
'i 

.,, 
'. I 
page 18 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
DIVISION SEMIFINALS <Beat-ot-n Walea Conference Pinsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 
New Jersey 3, Pinsburgh 1 Plnsburgh 5, New Jersey 4 Pittsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 New Jersey 4, Pittsburgh 1 New Jersey 4, Pinsburgh 2 Plnsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 Plnsburgh 4, New Jersey 0 
W1111hington 4, N.Y. Rangers 2 N.Y. Rangers 2, Washington 1 Washington 3, N.Y. Rangers 0 N.Y. Rangers 6, Washington 0 Washington 3, N.Y. Rangers 2 Washing10n 5, N.Y. Rangers4, OT Washington 4, N.Y. Rangers 2 
Boston 4, Hartford 2 Hartford 5, Boston 2 Boston 4, Hartford 3 Boston 6, Hartford 3 Hartford 4, Boston 3 Boston 6, Hartford 1 Boston 3, Hartford 1 
Montreal 4, Buffalo 2 Montreal 7, Buffalo 5 Montreal 5, Buffalo 4 Buffalo 5, Montreal 4 Buffalo 6, Montreal 4 Montreal4, Buffalo 3, OT Montreal 5, Buffalo 1 
C•mpbell Conference 
Minnesota 4, Chicago 2 Minnesota 4, Chicago 3, OT Chicago 5, Minnesota 2 Chicago 6, Minnesota 5 Minnesota 3, Chicago 1 Minnesota 6, Chicago 0 Minnesota 3, Chicago 1 
St. Louis 4, Detroit 3 Detroit 6, St. Louis 3 St. Louis 4, Detroit 2 Detroit 5, St. Louis 2 Detroit 4, St. Louis 3 St. Louis 6, Detroit 1 St. Louis 3, Detroit 0 St. Louis 3, Detroit 2 
Los Angeles 4. VancoliVer 2 Vancouver 6, Loa Angeles 5 Los Angeles 3, Vancouver 2. OT Vancouver 2, Loa Angeles 1, OT Los Angeles 6. Vancouver 1 Loa Angeles 7, Vancouver 4 Los Angeles 4, Vancouver 1 
Edmonton 4, Calgary 3 Edmonton 3, Calgary 1 Calgary 3, Edmonton 1 Edmonton 4, Calgary 3 Edmonton 5, Calgary 2 Calgary 5, Edmonton 3 Calgary 2, Edmonton 1, OT Edmonton 5, Calgary 4, OT 
BOOKSTORE RESUL1S 
8ookatore B..ketbllll XX Reaulta: Gina's Pizza (5) del. Hawk wil never die (12), 21­
13 Senior Bar (13) def. The Gauchos (4), 21-14 Tequila White Lightning X (1) del. Junus & 4 other 
guys (16), 21-17 Adworks (2) del. Bitter (15), 21-13 Bare Back Cowbowys (7) del. Me Cormick's Coney I sland (10), 21-13 Just Chillin' (B) def. Peaches Late Night All-Stars ( 
9), 21·t2 Malicious Proaecution(3) del. Fighting Kemals II ( 14), 21-16 Spidergram P. I. (11) del. 4 men wl an atthude (6), 
21-15 Women'a B..ketball Montezuma del. Fast Breatl, 22·20 CJ's Pub del. We're no Angela, 21-11 Four Athletes and a Golger del. Smooth, Swift, & Sweaty, 21-4 Hoosier Lawyers del. One Last Shot, 21·15 

Friday, April 26, 1991
SCOREBOARD 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL Americ•n Le•gue CLEVELAND INDIANS-Placed Felix Fermin, shortstop. on the 15-day disabled lilt retroactive to April 23. Purchased lhe contract of Mark Lewis. shortstop, from Colorado of the Padic Coast League. DETROIT TIGERs-Ptaced Lloyd Moseby, outfielder, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive to April 23. Called up Mark Leiter, ~cher, from Toledo of the International League. American Association BUFFALO BISONS-Promoted Martha K. Hiczewskl to vice president of administration. BASKETBALL N•llon•l B..ketb811 A..ocl•llon ORLANDO MAGIC-Signed Jerry Reynolds. guard-forward, to a mukiyear contract. PHOENIX SUNS-Signed Dan Majerle. guard· forward, to a three-year contract extension. United States Basketball League LONG ISLAND SURF-Named Ed Krinsky, general manager. and Bernard Tomlin, head 
.coach and director of player personnel. FOOTBALL N•llonal Footb811 Le•gue DETROIT LIONS-Signed Bobby FutreH, defensive 
back. 
MIAMI OOLPHINS-Signed Chris Stableln, quarterback; Richard Buchanon. and Joel Taylor, wide receivers; Darren Handy, and Blaine Rose. offensive linemen; Cllllord ChBJTll. and Kevin Pearson. linebackers; Michael laquaniello. safety; and Steve Berg. defensive end. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Ben Coates, tight end. Announced the retirement of Marc Wilson, quarterback. NEW YORK JET$-Agreed to terms with Peter Balistrieri and Reggie Moore, wide receivers, and Kip Beach, tackle. 
.PITISBURGH STEELERS-Signed Garry Howe. defensive lineman; Kevin Smith, defensive back; and Dan Walsh, running back. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Doug DuBose, running back, and Ralph Martini, quarterback. SEATTLE SEAHAWK$-Agreed to terms with Chuck Knox. coach. on a two-year contract extension. WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Signed Jack Brad1ord, linebacker; Reggie Howard, tackle; Wa~er Batson, wide receiver; and James Jenkins, tight end. C•n•dl•n Footb•ll Lugue BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONs-Agreed to terms with Matt Clark and Mike Trevathan, wljle receivers. HAMIL TON TIGER-CATS-Signed Robert Malcolm, fullback, and Michael CarTpbeil, defensive lineman. World League of American Football LONOON MONARCHS-Signed John Fruhmorgen, center. Released Damon Baldwin, guard. COLLEGE RADFORD-Named Dick Bender and Byron Samuels men's assistant basketball coaches. 
Tracey L. Nemecek-
All dressed up and no place to celebrate-,._._____~ 
until June28t 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

AU Timea EDT FIRST ROUND (Best·of-5)· Thursday, April 25 Chicago 126. New York 85, Chicago leads series 
1-0 Philadelphia at Milwaukee. (n) Golden State at San Antonio, (n) Houston at Los Angelel Lakers. (n) Utah at Phoenbc, (n) Friday, April 26 Indiana at Boston, 8 p.m. Atlanta at Detroit, 8 p.m. Seattle at Portland, 10:30 p.m. SATURDAY, APRIL 27 Golden State at San Antonio, 1 p.m. Houston at Los Angeles Lakers, 3:30p.m. Utah at Phoenix, 6 p.m. Philadelphia at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Sund•y, April 28 Indiana at Boston. 1 p.m. New York at Chicago, 3:30p.m. Atlanta at Detroh, 7 p.m. Seattle at Portland, 9:30p.m. Tuead•y, April 30 Detroit at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. Chicago at New York, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Los Angeles Lakers at Houston, 8 p.m. Portland at Seattle, 10 p.m. Phoenix at Utah, 10:30 p.m. Wednead•y, M•y 1 Boston at Indiana, 8 p.m. San Antonio at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Thuradlly, Mlly 2 Detroit at Atlanta. 8 p.m .• if necessary Loa Angeles Lakers at Houston. Bp.m .. if 
necessary Chicago at New York, Bp.m., if necessary Milwaukee at Philade~hia, 8 p.m., if necessary Portland at Seattle, TBA, If necessary Phoenix at Utah, TBA, if necessary Frld•y, Mlly 3 Boston at Indiana, 8 p.m., I necessary San Antonio at Golden State, TBA. Hnecessary Saturd•y, M•y 4 New York at Chicago. TBA. if necessary Philadelphia at Milwaukee. TBA. if necessary Seattle at Portland, TBA. i1 necessary Utah at Phoenix, TBA. if necessary Sund•y. Mlly 5 Indiana at Boston, TBA, if necessary Atlanta at Detrok, TBA, Hnecessary Houston at Los Angel86 Lakers, 3:30p.m., if 
necessary Golden State at San Antonio, TBA, Hnecessary 

CONFERENCE  SEMIFINALS  
(B86t-of-7)  
CONFERENCE  ANALS  
(B86t-of·7)  
THE  FINALS  

BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
&at DIYialon  
w  L  Pet  
Toronto  10  7  .588  
Boston  8  6  .571  
Detroit  7  7  .500  
Milwaukee  7  8  .467  
Baltimore  5  8  .385  
Cleveland  5  8  .385  
New York  5  8  .385  
Weal Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
Chicago  9  4  .692  
California  9  7  .563  
Oakland  9  7  .563  
Seattle  8  8  .500  
Kansas City  7  7  .500  
Texas  6  6  .500  
Minnesota  6  10  .375  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
&at DIYiaion  
w  L  Pd  
Pittsburgh  11  5  .688  
New York  10  6  .625  
St. Louis  9  7  .563  
Chicago  8  9  .471  
Montreal  5  11  .313  
Philadelphia  5  11  .313  
We1t  Dlvialon  
w  L  Pet  
San Diego  10  6  .625  
Cincinnati  8  7  .533  
Houston  7  B  .467  
Los Angeles  7  B  .467  
San Francisco  7  8  .467  
Atlanta  6  7  .462  

z-denotea firat g•me ••• • win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Milwaukee 9, Texas 1 Toronto 3, Detroit 2 Minn86ota 4, Seattle 3, 10 innings Frld•y'a G•mea 
.  - 
GB  L10  Stre•k  Home  Aw•y  
z-5-5  Won  2  6-2  4-5  
112  z-7·3  Lost  1  6-4  2-2  
1 112  5-5  Lost  2  4-4  3-3  
2  4-6  Won  1  4-5  3-3  
3  Z·4-6  Won  1  1-3  4-5  
3  Z·4-6  Lost  2  1-5  4-3  
3  4·6  Won  1  3·4  2-4  
GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
z-6-4  Lost  1  3·3  6-1  
1 112  4·6  Won  1  4-6  5-1  
1 112  4-6  Lost  1  5·1  4-6  
2112  z-8-2  Lost  2  6·3  2-5  
2112  4·6  Won  2  4·2  3-5  
2112  6-4  Lost  1  1·4  5-2  
4112  4·6  Won  2  4-3  2·7  
GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
8·2  Won  6  7-3  4·2  
1  z-6-4  Lost  1  5·2  5-4  
2  Z-6-4  Lost  1  5·2  4-5  
3112  Z-4-6  Lost  1  6·3  2-6  
6  3-7  Lost  5  3-6  2·5  
6  2-8  Won  1  3-3  2·8  
GB  L10  Struk  Home  Aw•y  
z-5-5  Lost  1  5·5  5-1  
1 t/2  6·4  Won  1  3·3  5·4  
2112  z-5·5  Won  1  4·2  3·6  
2 t/2  z-5-5  Won  1  1·5  6·3  
2 t/2  5·5  Won  1  5·4  2·4  
2112  z-5-5  Lost  1  2·6  4·1  

Milwaukee (K.D.Brown 1·0) at Baltimore (Mesa 1·2), 7:35p.m. Detroit (Terrell 0-2) at Toronto (Stottlemyre Hl), 7:35p.m. New York (Leary 2·0) at Chicago (Hibbard 2·0), 8:05p.m. Seattle (R.Johnson 2·1) at Minnesota (Erickson 1·2), 8:05p.m. Boston (G. Harris 1·2) at Kansas City (Boddicker 1·2), 8:35p.m. Cleveland (Candiotti 2-1) at Texas (Ryan 2·1), 8:35p.m. California (McCaskill2-1) at Oakland (Welch 1·1), 10:35 p.m. 
SATIONAL LEAGUE 

Thurad•y'• G•mea Cincinnati 6, Chicago 4 Pittsburgh 8, Montreal 0 Philadelphia 5. New York 3 San Francisco at Loa Angeles, (n) Only games scheduled 
Frld•y'a G•mea Chicago (Harkey 0-1) at Cincinnati (Rijo 0-1 ), 7:35p.m. San Diego (Hurst 1-0) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 0·0), 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh (Z.Smkh 2·0) at New York (Viola 2·0), 7:40 p.m. Atlanta (Leibrandt 1·1) at Houston (Deshaies 0-1 ), 8:35 p.m. Montreal (Boyd 0-2) at St. Louis (B.Smith 2-0), 8:35p.m. San Francisco (LaCoss 1-0) at Los Angeles (R.Martinez 2·1), t0:35 p.m. 
Happy Future Birthday! 
Store Your Stuff ! 
(for· the sum.n1er) 
~~M. ·s 
March & April FREE! or 
at the IDI torage
$100FF~~MQRent*~~~~-~~D~e~p~o_t~-~
!Notre Dame I
:1< Present valid Notre Dame I.D. for discount  
Rent a SxlO or smaller Rent for 4 months (5/1 to 8/31)  .  I I u.s. 33  DD  
~  
~  Ci5  
South  .,._______.  J  ~  m  
Bend  McKinley Bwy. n I  I  on  
McKinley  

FREE 
TANNING 

I.Buy~ ;;srons atthe regula-:1 I price and get 4 FREE • Buy S I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 ann 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~ 
rr .-.. ,.., ~-L==---; ~('1*-oo Hair( 'utdng ('o. J 
----------. ..J 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO ~Nl\JR!: 
GRAPE RO MtSHAWA.KA 
'177-7~ 
Oally9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11·5 

./ 

Friday, April 26, 1991 
The Observer page 19 


• 
·'-·· 
-
-
ll \ 
'I 
~ ; i 


i !1 

lJ·, 
, I I
I , I ~ul 
, 
l 
I 
1 ' 
1 
I i 
;~ ,, 
i ' IJ f 
I 
I 
page 20 The Observer Friday, April 26, 1991 
Bruins abuse Canadiens; Penguins clinch 
Bulls embarrass Ewing's Knicks; Lakers win a lucky one
\,) 
McGill and Nick Smith share the right side. At inside linebacker, probable 1991 starters Demetrius DuBose and Jim Flanigan will start for the Blue. The Blue team's line is made of Peter Rausch, Todd Stoker, and Brian Hamilton. Defending against their as­sault will be the Gold offensive line. This young unit, made up of three sophomores and two ju­niors, is the future of the Irish offensive line. Mike McGlinn and Todd Norman will play tackle for the Gold team, while Aaron Taylor and Stuart Tyner start at guard.  COME LIVE IN STYLE AT RIVERSIDE NORTH APARTMENTS t.fC{/4/V14!V'JJ $MeJO'U$ *1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 41671 Riverside Drive 2Al1 -?~~3-2212  
Attention Sophomores Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. HOURS: l :00 P,M. to 4:30 P.M. Monday-Friday IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE  

. _., 
(AP) -The NBA playoffs got off to rousing start for the Chicago Bulls and an embarrassing one for the New York Knicks. 
The Bulls, top-seeded in the Eastern Conference with a 61­21 record in the regular season, got 28 points from Michael Jordan and 25 from Scottie Pippen in a 126-8 5 rout of the Knicks. It was the most lopsided playoff victory ever for Chicago and worst in the postseason for New York. -­
The Knicks, who came into the playoffs with a 39-43 mark, the only one of 16 NBA playoff teams with a losing record, turned the ball over 27 times and got only six points from Patrick Ewing, the first time in 
BOSTON (AP) -Cam Neely completed a hat trick by scoring twice in 11 seconds in the third period, and Craig Janney had four assists as the Boston Bruins pushed the Montreal Canadiens one loss away from playoff elimination with a 4-1 victory Thursday night. 
The Bruins, ahead 3-2, can clinch the best-of-7 Adams Division final in Montreal on Saturday night. A seventh game would be played in Boston on Monday night. 
Boston led 2-1 after two periods on goals by Neely and 
Roster 
continued from page 24 
on the Blue team are in the running. 
The Blue secondary consists of Four sophomores: corner­backs Greg Lane and Tom Carter and safeties LeShane Saddler and John Covington. 
Playing left outside linebacker, sophomores Oliver Gibson and Dean Lytle will share the duties, while Karl 
up 

228 games he failed to score in double figures. 
New York's previous worst playoff loss was 130-90 to Philadelphia April 16, 1978. The Bulls' previous high was 27 points in a 104-77 win over K.C.-Omaha on April 20, 1975. 
"We wanted to keep Patrick away from the basket, force him out and deny him the ball," Bulls center Bull Cartwright said. "The stats show he took only seven shots. He'll shoot more Sunday." 
"I am frustrated by the whole situation," Ewing said. "The whole thing, getting blown out and the fact I didn't get the ball. This is a new season. We have two more games to play. We've got to come out with more 
Vladimir Ruzicka. Brian Skrudland scored for Montreal. 
The game was in doubt until Neely's sudden strikes on similar plays put the Bruins in control. He took over the playoff goal-scoring lead with 11, one more than St. Louis' Brett Hull. 
Nine seconds after a cross­checking penalty to Mathieu Schneider, Neely scored on a power play at 7:58 of the third period. Ruzicka passed from the left corner to Janney behind the net. Janney fed the puck to Neely, who fired a tO-footer past goalie Patrick Roy. 
Tim Ruddy, who is reportedly the strongest player on the Irish team, will start at center. 
Ruddy will snap the ball to sophomore Kevin McDougal, who spent 1990 as a backup to Rick Mirer. 
The gold backfield will be made up of Ryan Mihalko at fullback and Rodney Culver at tailback. Culver makes the move to tailback after three impressive years at fullback, and will share duties with ju­nior Dorsey Levens. 
At flanker, sophomore Clint 
intensity." 

Jordan said he felt "some sympathy for Patrick. He's a friend. I know he's frustrated and he couldn't do the things he wanted to do. I hope I feel this way for him two more games." 
76ers 99, Bucks 90 

MILWAUKEE Hersey Hawkins scored 25 points and Philadephia used an 11-0 third­quarter run to beat Milwaukee. 
The 76ers, who led by 12 at halftime and never trailed in the second half, took the homecourt advantage away from the Bucks. 
Spurs 130, Warriors 121 

SAN ANTONIO -Willie Anderson scored a career-high 
Penguins 4, Capitals 1 

PITTSBURGH The Pittsburgh Penguins advanced to the Wales Conference finals for the first time in franchise history on Thursday night, riding a 33-save effort by goaltender Tom Barrasso to a 4-1 victory over the Washington Capitals for their first Patrick Division title. 
The Penguins won the last three games to eliminate the Capitals 4-1. Pittsburgh, which has won six of its last seven games, will visit the Adams Division champion. 
Johnson will share time with senior Martin Scruggs. Lake Dawson will start at split end, while Ray Griggs makes a comeback from an early spring ankle injury in backing up the sophomore. 
The tight end for the Gold team is Irish two-sport athlete Irv Smith, who will play in the Blue-Gold game while his base­ball teammates take on Saint Louis in a doubleheader at Jake Kline field. 
The Blue-Gold game will kick ofT at 1:30 p.m. Saturday. 
38 points and David Robinson and Rod Strickland had 30 points apiece as San Antonio held off a late Golden State surge. 
Consecutive slam dunks by Robinson in the final two minutes put the game out of reach of Golden State. Robinson also finished with 13 rebounds and eight blocked shots. 
Jazz 129, Suns 90 
PHOENIX -Karl Malone scored 12 of his 27 points in Utah's 44-point third period at Phoenix. 
The victory margin was the largest ever in the playoffs for the Jazz, who limped into the postseason without a homecourt advantage after blowing the Midwest Division title with a loss to Golden State on Sunday. 
Lakers 94, Rockets 92 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Byron Scott hit a controversial jumper with 3 1/2 seconds remaining and Sam Perkins added a clinching free throw for Los Angeles against Houston. 
Scott's jumper that made it 93-90 initially was waved off by referee Jack Madden, who thought Scott didn't get the shot off until after the 24-second clock ran out. But, after conferring with the other officials, Madden changed his call and the basket counted. 
SPOR1S BRIEFS 
•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•Applications 
are being accepted for Observer sports writing positions. Give your name, campus address and phone number to Dave Dieteman between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. at the Observer office, third floor of'LaFortune. 


•ND I SMC Sailing awards dinner will be held Tuesday, April 30 at 6:45 pm at Lisa Fox's. For more information please call Moira at 283-5224. 
•Students and staff interested in having a climbing wall on campus should come to a short meeting at 7:00 pm on Wednesday, May 1, at the Non-Varsity Athletics office. Anyone with questions should call NVA at 239-6100. 
Mary Kim Koch 
Welcome Back! 
It's been too long. The ND Guys 

We're just minutes from Notre Dame, University Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spacious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­
gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that includes free aerobics classes, social tJnctions, team sports and much, much more. 
If you're looking tor the ideal o!f-campus home stop by today and we'll show you comfortable, affordable apartment living! 
Efficiencies from $270 -featuring ­1-Bedrooms from $285 • P;anned A.ct;vrties Program 2-Bedrooms from $345 • Baautiful Clubhouse & Pool 
• Air Condrtioning • Cable T\1 A.vailable 
• Disposal • Laundry Rooms272-1880 • Basketball Court 
+ Picnic Tables & Gri!ls Office Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, 
+ Volleybait Court • Gazebo Sat 1 0·4 and Sun. 12-4 • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 

sk about the Hickory Village Summer BrHze . _. easy and economical way to keep your apart!T!ent ttlrough the summer and stiUgo home. 
.fllCKORij ~ DlLLA~E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north or Edison Road 
NO APPLICATION FEE! 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. 
E1tpii'H 911191 15 

Friday, April 26, 1991 The Observer 
page 21 

SPOA1S SHORTS 
Eight teams remain in Bookstore 
;~faWJ:ti\~JPcf.~~.:n wlll break the 
Robinson dominates women's section of tournament 
stolen base record sometimesoon, but he'll never duplicate the 
By RENE FERRAN and the shots fell." ting it," he said. "We just want
·.. feat of baseball's all-time base thief. Not unless the Oakland 
·.speedster puts on. a skirt. Sophie.Kurys stole 1,114 bases during a 14-year career.m theAll-Amer1can Girls Professional Baseball league in the 1940s and 1950s. And she's kept an eye on 
Henderson's record run. "Rickey goes in head-first, but you can really ~urt yourself that way," Kurys said. "He's a good player, but he s too arrogant. Ifanyone acted that cocky in our league. we'd really ride him. I don't like the way he snatches at the ball ,when.he ~atches it. rve seen Dave Parker do the same thing and 
· drop 1t. Its a pretty easy way to make yourselflook sllly." 
Bbl0 ~ sub~ect of b~ exhibit 
1!11 W ASTL)fnd. ''--e Indiana Basketball Hall ofFame will unveil an exhibit June 8 on the career of Oscar Robertson. .Robertson. former Indiana. high school Mr.. Basketball and one of · ~be NBA's all·time greats. will attend the opening. TbEl exhibi~ . iflcludes video highlights. photographs and mementos from his high 8£~0(}1, collf1ge 3.JldNB4 car~el"$, anc;l .a l?J{onze scup~\lre qf tRobertSon b~ Indianapolis artist JohD. Spaulding; · 

BIRTHDAY Suzanne! 

No more counselling 

1r£~2 ~Now that you're ZI, 
you can party stress 
free!!! 
Love, Kerry, Marie, Julie, & Brenda 
;t%~ Whether you' ...•..•...•.. · l "you'r~ plann ·. ·· · ServiceS can 
Working as a tennDt)f"at"Y Chicago paydleck while 
··!?< ·~.:;. 
. . 

Associate Sports Editor 
With the field vying for the 
men's Bookstore Basketball 
championship down to 16 
teams, fans expected the action 
at the Bookstore courts yester­
day afternoon to be cutthroat. 
They weren't disappointed. 
The top three seeds advanced 
into the Final Eight, but not 
without a struggle. Top seed 
Tequila White Lightning X, 
sparked by the seven-point ef­
fort of Jim Dolan, came back 
from an early deficit to knock 
out Julius and Four Other Guys 
21-17. 

"They were hot in the begin­
ning and we weren't," sopho­
more Shannon Cullinan said. 
"We have a lot of respect for 
their team; they played a super 
game today. 
"Jim Dolan had a great game 
for us. He came forward when 
we really needed him. He car­
ried us today." 

In today's quarterfinals, Tequila meets up with Just Chillin', which eliminated Peaches' Late Night All-Stars 21-12 yesterday afternoon. Cullinan expects Just Chillin' to be even tougher today with Ray Griggs being able to play. 
"I think it'll be a close game, one of the best games so far of the tournament," Cullinan said. "Hopefully, we can keep them off the boards. It'll definitely be pretty physical." 
S e c o n d -s e e d e d Adworks-playing without standout senior Derrick Johnson-took care of no. 15 Bitter 21-13. Marlon Crook scored nine points to pace Adworks. 
"We didn't think about this game like, 'We have to make up for Derrick,"' Crook said. "We just came together as a team 


In 1985, Gerry Faust an­nounced on a Tuesday morning 
TEMPORARY SERVICES, INC. 
ME 
WORLD! 

V'*'\w~<~t can be your introduction to the ..........1..,,"" experience. And you'll earn a 
Bareback Cowboys, the sev­
enth seed, is next up for the 
two-time Bookstore runner-ups. 
The Cowboys advanced with a 
21-13 win over McCormick's 
Coney Island. 
Stu Healy led the victorS' with 
nine points, while pulling down 
12 rebounds. 
No. 3 Malicious Prosecution 
also advanced to today's quar­
terfinals with a hard-fought 21­
16 victory over Fighting Kernels 
II. Andy Curoe led the law students' balanced attack with six points . 
"We feel that any of us can score," Curoe said. "It's real important for us to have bal­anced scoring." 
"I think composure was a big key," Jon Bergman added. "A lot of teams are shooting for us, and we have to stick together as a team." 
Malicious Prosecution hooks up with eleventh seed Spidermagnum P.l., a 21-15 upset victor over Four Men with an Attitude. 
Four men saw a disappointing performance from sophomore Demetrius DuBose. DuBose shot 4-17 in the game, though he pulled down 11 rebounds. 
The only other upset of the day came when fourth-seed Gauchos fell to no. 13 Senior Bar 21-14. 
Junior Rob Graham sank 12 of 20 shots to help Senior Bar advance to a quarterfinal matchup with fifth-seed Gina's Pizza, 21-13 winners over Hawk Will Never Die. 
Balanced scoring also was a big factor in Gina's win, ac­cording to Mike Hartmann, who had four points in yesterday's game. 
"That's why we're doing so well. Everyone is capable of taking the open jumper and hit-to win, and we'11 do whatever it takes." 
Looking to add a women's 

Bookstore tournament title to 
her long list of accomplish­
ments, senior Karen Robinson 
has helped carry her team to 
the Final Four. 
CJ's Pub will meet 

Montezuma's Revenge in one of 
Saturday's semifinal matchups. 
In the other, Four Athletes and 
a Golfer will face Hoosier 
Lawyers. 
Robinson poured in 13 points to lead CJ's Pub to a 21-11 win over We're No Angels in the quarterfinals. 
"I'm not thinking about scor­ing a lot," said the two-time MCC Player of the Year. 'Tm just playing basketball." 
But sophomore Marisa Graf of Montezuma's Revenge realizes Robinson is a threat to take over Saturday's game. 
"She's definitely an excep­tional player. She's one of the quickest players I've played against," Graf said. "We play a zone, but if she starts playing like she can, we'll have to ad­just." 
Still Graf, who scored 10 points in Montezuma's 22-20 overtime victory against Fast Break, is confident about her team's chances against CJ's Pub. 
"I think they're heatable," she said. "We're going to have to play our game and focus on what we're going to do and not what they do.' 
Four Athletes and a Golfer cruised into the semifinals with a 21-4 victory over Smooth, Swift and Sweaty, while Hoosier Lawyers, paced by Kathy Leyden's nine points, defeated One Last Shot 21-15. 
that he would not return after five seasons as Notre Dame's football coach. Less than 36 hours later, Lou Holtz was being introduced as Faust's re­placement by then-athletic di­rector Gene Corrigan. 
However, Faust's departure was expected after a disap­pointing 5-6 season and a me­diocre -by Notre Dame stan­dards -overall record of 29­25-1. Though Phelps endured a 12-20 season, his 393 victories made him the winningest coach in Irish basketball history. 
Rumors 
continued from page 24 
media," he said Thursday. "If someone like Notre Dame called, I'd have to sit down and consider if I wanted to get back into coaching." 
The search for a basketball coach is much different from the last time the Irish made a major coaching change. And it quickly became apparent this month that Notre Dame had not worked behind the scenes in anticipation of Phelps' depar­ture to line up a successor. Phelps said he decided only the week before his announcement that he would leave. 

SUMMER STORAGE FOR STUDENTS 
High St. Storage -1212 High St. -288-3575 
• I..VVAJ. 

-
A deposit will hold your storage unit Hurry Now-Spaces are going fast! 

r'l 
' 
page 22 The Observer Friday, April 26, 1991 
Lacrosse faces talented competition at Ohio State 
McNall offers Ismail's services to NFL 
Take off with low fares. 
i League loophole may allow former Irish wideout to play 

~)>{(T ERN SHIP S 
(FALL BREAK '91) 

We're looking for some good students. 
-~­
I I 
Find out more about the program at an information session held on Monday, April 29, at 6:00 in room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
I , 

Sponsored by -----­
S.A.R.G. (Student Alumni Relations Group) and the Notre Dame Alumni Mociation 
Applications are available in Room 201 Main Building. 

By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The second of three possible seasons begins Saturday for the Notre Dame lacrosse team as the Irish (6-6) venture to Columbus, Ohio, to face mid­western rival Ohio State. 
The Irish and Buckeyes have split the series since inception in 1981. with Notre Dame tak­

i'! 
ing last year's contest 14-11 at 
Moose Krause Stadium. Ohio State returns 37 lettermen from last season's 4-10 squad. 
With two games remaining for the Irish, a win over Ohio State is pivotal if the squad is to attain the midwestern bid tho the NCAA tournament. 
"We're right where we want to be," said Irish coach Kevin 

'l 
I 
I! LOS ANGELES (AP) Toronto Argonauts owner Bruce McNall will allow Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to play for both his Canadian Football League team and the Los Angeles Raiders if approval is granted, a newspaper reported today. "I don't even know if the Rocket knows about this," McNall said Wednesday night in Edmonton, Alberta, where his Los Angeles Kings played an NHL playoff game. "But if (Raiders owner) AI (Davis) wanted to do it, I wouldn't stand in his way," McNall told the Los Angeles Times. A National Football League rule, however, forbids a player under contract with a CFL team from playing in the NFL in the same season. "The rule was put there for competitive reasons," NFL spokesman Joe Browne said. McNall said he knew about the rule, but would not stand in the way if Davis could find a way to modify the stipulation. "I have not spoken to AI about it," MeN all said. "But if he wants to see if he can get the rule changed, and the NFL al-



Corrigan. "We couldn't want anything more than to be in control of our own destiny at this point of the season." 
After an 18-4 win Wednesday against Division III Lake Forest College, the competition level takes a drastic turn for the bet­ter Saturday, as Ohio State traditonally plays a physical game against the Irish. 
"Their style of play won't be any different from anything else we've seen so far," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "A big part of the game will be who comes out and dictates the tempo." 
Ohio State relies primarily on an up-tempo offense, while the Irish prefer a six-man, half-field scoring threat. 
While the Buckeyes have an 
lowed it, I wouldn't say no." 

Ismail, the former Notre Dame wide receiving star, signed a deal with the Argos on Saturday night worth a guar­anteed 18.2 million over four years. On Sunday, the Raiders drafted Ismail in the fourth round of the NFL draft. 
One loophole in the NFL rule would allow Ismail to play for the Raiders this year if the Rocket terminates his Argos contract before the end of the regular season in mid-November. If a deal was ham­mered out between McNall and Davis that would allow for Ismail's contact to end a week before the final game, he would be eligible to join the Raiders, the Times reported. 
The Raiders denied that there was any such deal between them and McNall. 
Asked if he was aware of an 
10% Off 

such deal, AI LoCasale, Raiders executive assistant, told the 
coupon

Times, "No, I haven't, to tell you the truth." 
The second half of the season, while pitting the Irish against some formidable competition, has strengthened the team despite a record that didn't meet team expectations. 
"We'll be prepared for Ohio State," said sophomore mid­fielder Ed Lamb. "We've been consistently improving during the last few games. It was just a matter of getting everyone to come together as a team." 
Junior Mike Sullivan paces the Notre Dame offense, while sophomore Brian Mayglothling and junior Brian Schirf provide the Irish with a balanced scoring threat. Schirf erupted for four goals in last year's matchup, and Sullivan chipped in two. Mayglothling added two goals and two assists. 
It's been a long time since we've seen you look that good. To the pre-med study goddesses 
(A.K.A. Joan & Tara). We love you and wish you the best of luck on 
~~lr~~ 
" 
Barat, Jenn, & Madeleine 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
SONYA SMITH (LOVE) 
• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Rentals For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Road Service convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes can move you like a Hertz Penske 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks truck. 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­mission and Air Conditioning 


Hertz 

Best 
Best Truck Deal 
4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 Toledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks available at all locations. All local and one·woy rentals subject to Hertz Penske standard rental qualifications. ©Hertz Penske Truck Leasing, Inc. 1985. 
You pay for gas, taxes, tolls, collision do~e waiver. and parking and driving violations. Drop it off at any participating Hertz Penske Truck Rentallocot1on. 

Ed Lamb 

extremely athletic squad, Corrigan believes the Irish may be able to use such talent to their advantage. 
"If we play smart, we can use their athletic ability against them," said Corrigan. "They really like to exploit their speed in the transition, but if we get out and play out type of game, we should be able to take them out of their game." 
After Wednesday's win over Lake Forest, which brought the Irish back up to the .500 level, the squad appears to be ap­proaching its best play of the season. It couldn't have come at a more opportune time. 
..We've come along so well from the beginning of the sea­son," said senior Mike Sennet. "We knew from the outset that the freshmen would have to contribute, and they have. We all know what our roles are and what where we have to contribute, which is anything from playing on the scout team to being a utility man." 


Friday, April 26, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Modern 60 Valuable violin 
Friday 
weapon, for 
61 Goad1 Sacks short 62 Entertain an

7:30 p.m. Flanner Hall bench-press and squat competition in s October's gem 34 Anklebones 
honoree the Flanner Hall basement. $2 charge for non-residents. No 9 Rikki-tikki -­
36 Raccoonlike 63 Dimensions 
charge for residents. Questions, call Steve at 283-1376. 
animal

13 Woody's boy 64 City on the Wei, 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film: "The Icicle Thief," Annenberg 
37 The magic in old style 
14 Meeting points

Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame 
the "Fireworks 65 Blunders
15 Leading

Communication and Theatre. Music"? 
66 Supplicated

8 and 10 p.m. Film: "Rescuers Down Under," Cushing 16 Bank 
41 Pucker up 
67 Concludestransaction

Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
42 "Green Gables" 
68 Punjabi peasant 
8 p.m. Play: "Comedy of Errors," Theodore's, LaFortune 11 "Them!" critters 
girl

Student Center. Sponsored by London Program. 
18 Code name 

43 Kind of liner or
8:10 p.m. Mainstage Season Play: "The Good Woman of DOWN
19 Halls for port
Setzuan," Frederic Syburg, associate professor, director. 
Amadeus? 44 Motion support 1 Emollient 
Washington Hall. Sponsored by NO Communication and 
22 Rhythmic 46 Ferber novel 2 Forster's "-­
Theatre. 
pattern With a View" 
49 Actress Olin 23 Work for 3 Sheen 
Saturday 51 Oarsman 
4 Chopin piece24 Order of frogs 54 Full of

and toads 5 Certainly 
1:30 p.m. 61st Annual Blue-Gold Football Game. Notre Dame "Appas­
6 "Turandot" role 27 Besides sionata"?
Stadium. 
7 Recorded 

7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film: "The Icicle Thief." Annenberg 
proceedings

Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by NO Communication 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Sturdy thread 
and Theatre. 
9 Writer Wilder 

8 and 10 p.m. Film: "Rescuers Down Under," Cushing 

10 Gas: Comb.

Auditorium. Sponsored by SUB. 
form 29To--47 Japanese 53 Kind of rocket
8 p.m. Play: "Comedy of Errors," Theodore's, LaFortune 
11 Amphora (exactly) drama
Student Center. Sponsored by London Program. 
54 Irritate 
12 When Gasca 30 Spirited tune 48 Box-office 
8:10 p.m. Mainstage Season Play: "The Good Woman of 
55 Actor Janningsstruck 31 Vipers bargain

Setzuan," Frederic Syburg, associate professor, director. 
15 Smith's patriotic 32 Kind of 21 Down 50 Violate a 56 Stun
Washington Hall. Sponsored by ND Communication and 
ballad warranty
33 Pharm. item 57 Hibernia
Theatre. 
20 Medici era: 35 Former Spanish 52 "--Street's a 58 Old oath Abbr. overseas Boulevard ...":
Sunday 
21 Statute province 1953 song 59 Hotbed 
3:10 p.m. Mainstage Season Play: "The Good Woman of 25Pro-(in 38 In quarantine Setzuan," Frederic Syburg, associate professor, director. proportion) 39 Origin Answers to any three clues in this 
Washington Hall. Sponsored by ND Communication and 26 Onward 40 Encourages 
puzzle are available by touch-tone
Theatre. 
28 Pilgrimage to 45 Recombinant phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 7:15p.m. Sunday Vespers Concert, Notre Dame Handbell Choir Mecca letters minute). Michael Deer, director. Sacred Heart Church. Sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich Broccoli, Cheese and Rice Casserole Chili Crispitos Fried Perch 
BILL WATTERSON 

JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES SPELUNKER 
H~ ~ ~eM?.
I'M FOR~IN.<;
00 itk\.\?.' 'Nlli. 
Cl\JB 'tW
1-\'i OWN CLIJB,
YOV CM-l gE 
LA.sT TttiN(n

14r...\Jt. to-COOl
A~O 1-rs G0\1\GJ
"cws Q\(1(-lOC~ 
B£ER SEES 

.AC~~'{tl\ R>R
1lJ BE fa.. LOI 

\
"t.M>; ~IJSt. 

\ :,
A W.M£, 1\L
881tR. 'ffiii--N
I QUIT.' 

I
•,
~\.'
THIS~~! 
• 


.... 
"Don't make any erratic movements, Miss Halloway. 
-"~ 
..• Not only Is the truculent nature of this species amply documented, but, as you can discern for yourself, the little suckers can really jump." 


Friday Saturday 
cushing Auditorium 


B:OOp.m. and 10:30p.m. $2 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

l, 
' 

Sports 

page 24 Friday, April 26, 1991 
Baseball team douses Flames 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Craig Counsell was the hitting plate. Bautch proceeded to lay star for the Irishi the first game, down a suicide squeeze, which Sports Writer going 2-4 with 2 runs scored the Flame's pitcher fielded. He and 1 RBI. Junior captain Joe threw home attempting to get Warning: Do not touch the Binkiewicz, who's current hot Haas, who was racing toward ' Notre Dame baseball team or streak mirrors that of his team, the plate, but the play was late,
'.
'' 
i~ you will get burned. So found added 2 hits in the victory. allowing the only run of the out another Irish victim, as the Sophomore Pat Leahy and game to score. ' : Irish swept a doubleheader freshman Tom Price continued The Irish will look to continue
' ' 
from the University of Illinois at to blanket Flame batters in the its streak this weekend as MCC Chicago by scores of 4-0 and 1-second game combing on the 1-foe St. Louis (13-29) visits here 

0. The Irish (29-12) are riding a 0 shutout. Saturday. The teams will play a 15 game winning streak and The Irish bats went cold after doubleheader starting at are now ranked #20 in the the 4 runs in game one, but noontime at Jake Kleine field. nation in the latest ESPN benefited from sloppy play on St. Louis is only 4-7 in division 1 college baseball poll. the part of the Flames. In the conference this season, but do 
The longest winning streak in fourth inning, Matt Haas led ofT have some formidable weapons the 100-year history of Notre with a walk, advance to second in their arsenal. Junior Jason Dame baseball is 15 games. The on an unsuccessful pickoff Boehlow is the Billikens' main Irish will have a chance to attempt and moved to third on power threat, bashing 12 home eclipse that mark with a sweep a ground ball by Cory Mee. The runs with 43 RBI's this season of lowly Saint Louis this Flames pitcher then proceeded to lead the MCC in both weekend. to hit Irish batter Irv Smith categories. Pat Conreaux and 
In the opener Thursday, putting runners on first and Brad Brown are both in the top sophomore Chris Michalak third with 2 outs. Irish coach fifteen in hitting in the MCC The Observer/Joe Fabbre
Taking It to the hoop
tossed his second complete Pat Murphy then pulled out all with averages of .350 and .326 game shutout of the season to of the stops when the Irish's which rank them 6th and 15th Kevin Rule of Just Chillin' throws in a layup in his team's victory 
J 
move his record to 5-1. Dan Bautch stepped to the respectively. Thursday. See story on page 21. 
Cremins remains candidate for Irish coaching vacancy 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -The 
surprised if it didn't happen un­general questions about proce­"I don't know why. But I'm naming of a new Notre Dame til late next week, at the earli­dure, stopped returning phone not," he said. ''I'll let you read basketball coach is imminent, est." calls when the questions turned whatever you want into that." according to some reports, but On the day he reportedly was to specific candidates. But Cremins isn't the only beneath the Golden Dome to take the job at Notre Dame, "I don't think he's going to possible candidate. they're saying "What's the Cremins was 600 miles away in budge on that," said John Southern Methodist's John hurry?" Columbia, S.C., for his induction Heisler, the sports information Shumate, a former player and 
Athletic director Dick into the state's Athletic Hall of director, returning a call di­assistant under Phelps, told Rosenthal insists the university Fame. rected to Rosenthal's office. Dallas newspapers he would in­won't be stampeded into "Last night, I was at a party "There's not a great sense of terview with Rosenthal soon. choosing a replacement for with my friends and I turn on urgency. If it takes a week or Danny Nee of Nebraska, an­Digger Phelps, who stepped· the TV and there I was going to two weeks, that's not a prob­other former Phelps assistant, down last week. In fact, the first Notre Dame," he said. "I just lem. It's not like we've got a was mentioned as a candidate rumored deadline passed about fell ofT the chair. I think game in four days." but said Notre Dame hadn't without a ripple. Bobby Cremins everybody is way, way ahead of Nevertheless, Notre Dame of­contacted him. 

Prime Ticket, a California­themselves." ficials did nothing to discourage Former Virginia coach Terry based cable television service, replacement. Still, Cremins' name remained the speculation that in­Holland, now athletic director had cited unidentified sources "There wasn't a press confer­atop an unofficial list of candi­creasingly has centered on at Davidson, also found himself in reporting that Notre Dame ence was there?" said a univer­dates to replace Phelps, who Cremins. The coach left the on the unofficial list. would hold a press conference sity source who asked not to be announced his retirement on door wide open, refusing a "Nobody has called but the Thursday to name Georgia Tech identified. "Dick's got some April 15 after 20 seasons. chance to rule himself out of the 
see RUMORS/page 21
coach Bobby Cremins as Phelps' people to talk to. I wouldn't be Rosenthal, who had answered running. 
Blue-Gold Game promises to be a showcase of Irish football talent 
By ROLANDO de AGUIAR behind the Irish line by are returning starter Tony Lindsay Knapp and Winston will try to bottleneck the run­sophomore fullback Jerome Smith and junior Adrian Jarrell. Sandri, and Jordan Halter, a ning game at inside linebacker. 
Sports Writer 

Bettis, who has made himself a Jarrell spent the 1990 season junior who has seen little regu­The Gold team secondary will I force at fullback, and another backing up All-American lar-season action for the Irish. be made up of returning 
I. The teams for the 61st annual
Jr sophomore, Willie Clark, at Raghib Ismail at flanker for the Trying to stop this offense will starters Rod Smith and Greg
Blue-Gold Game were picked 
Irish. Derek Brown will start at be a Gold defense made up of Davis and sophomores Jeff
Thursday, with each team 
see BLUE vs GOLD, center' 

tight end in Saturday's game. many Irish first-teamers, in­Burris and Marvin Robinson. 
receiving a good share of 
The blue team's offensive line cluding defensive linemen Some of the closest races forpresent and future Irish stars. 
tailback. This spring, Clark has 
is led by two returning starters George 'Boo' Williams, Junior starting spots will occur in the
The Blue squad boasts 

a shown moves and speed which 
from 1990. Mirko Jurkovic will Bryant, and Bryant Young. secondary, as the four playersstrong offense, led by returning 
have put him in strong 
start at right guard, while 1990 At outside linebacker for the on the gold team, as well as thestarting quarterback Rick Mirer, contention for the starting job 
tackle Gene McGuire will play Gold team are Devon McDonald entire defensive backfield unitand most of 1990's starting line. 
in the fall. 


' 'f 1,: ' J'
j: 
If 
' ! 
' 
I 
i .~ 
f 
i 
."1 

-~ .. ,­I 
I i L I 
i I. 
i lJ 
(l
I 
I 
center. The line is rounded out and Anthony Peterson, while
Mirer is complemented see ROSTERS/page 20 
At wide receiver for the Blue 
by two experienced seniors, Pete Bereich and Brian Ratigan 
,·.. TAILBACK 32 Willie Clark
,. 
4 Dorsey Levens
Blue Offense 
FULLBACK 6·Jerome Bettis David Fuentes

~ SPUTEND FLANKER 
83To~ SmithQUARTERBACK
10 Adrian Jarrell 19 Mark Swenson 3 Rick Mirer
TACKLE ~ 16 Ctvis Parenti78 Jordan Halter 
~ 

~ _.~ ~ ~ ~~:t~Kcepp 
-... nGHT END GUARD CENTER GUARD 86 Derek Brown 74 Mirko Jurkovic 76 Gene McGuire 53 Winston Sandri 
85 Robert Hughes 59 Lance Johnson 
-------.--------~------~------------~----­
NOSE TACKLE 95 Junior Bryant
Gold Defense 

98 J.T. Proffit LEFTTACKlE ~ 
~ RIGHT TACKLE 69 George Williams \}' 
tl \J' 

97 Bryant Young 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER ~­. ~ OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 45 Devon McDonald ~ 

('>} ~ 49 Anthony Peterson INSIDE LIN~BACKER ~ 

47 Pete Bereich ~ ~ ~S!W!n~~CKER ~ 
48 John Farren· 92 Wtllie Bruening ~ 

CORNERBACK ~ 39 Marvin Robinson ~ CORNERBACK
STRONG SAFETY 
5 Mike Lalli FREE SAFETY 21 Rod Smith
9 Jeff Burris 
26 Greg Davis

22 John-Paul Augeri 14 Stephen Pope 
P 
TAILBACK 5 Rodney Culver 41 Reggie Brooks

Gold Offense 
P 
FULLBACK 

_ ._. . _ 35 Ryan Mihalko ·',..';\,l· · 11 RICk lozano 
FLANKER , . ~-~;~~·. QUARTERBACK
·. 8 Clint Johnson 

.'""' 
22 Martin Scruggs 
TACKLE ~~~~JJ~~ 
66 Todd Norman
p pTACKLE 70 Mike McGlinn

PPPPP 
GUARDTIGHT END GUARD CENTER 75 Aaron Taylor 

841rv Smith !i1 Stuart Tyner 61 Tim Ruddy 
62 Chet l.acheta 
NOSE TACKLE n Todd Stoker

Blue Defense 
LEFTTACKLE ., 
RIGHT TACKlE
64 Peter Rausch 

90 Brian Hamilton 57 Bernard ManneUy 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER~ 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 55 Dean Lytle 
89 Karl McGill 
30 Nick Smith INSIDE LINEBACKER 31 Demetrius DuBose 
56 Oliver Gibson 

~ 24 Jonathan Bergnann ~ 
CORNERBACK 
33Greg Lane STRON:fFETY FREE.ETY CORNERBACK 34 Brian Meter . 13 Tom Carter
2 leShane Saddler 
29 John Covtngton

27 George Poorman 
33 Chet HoUister 



..............................................................................--------------------------------------------------------------------­

.:.,3 
) 


f 
SIXTY-FIRST ANNUAL 
BLUE vs 
/ 
ABOVE: Two players grapple during spring practice Tuesday. (Photo by Kenneth Osgood.) LEFT: Rick Mirer ponders his 
next play. (Photo by Andrew McCloskey.) RIGHT: Dorsey Levens breaks a tackle in the 1990 Blue-Gold Game. (Photo by Kevin Weise.) 
Annual classic kicks off Saturday 
Injuries, shorter practice season will not prevent game 
By RICH KURZ .. I think we've gotten more the entire practice Tuesday Associate Sports Editor done in 11 practices than we due to injuries to Gene have in 15 (practices) other McGuire and Lance Johnson. 
Editor's note: At press time years," said Irish coach Lou The lack of depth on the of­for this pullout, •the Blue and Holtz. "We've practiced longer fensive line may be apparent Gold teams had not been se­(during the day) than we ever tomorrow, when there may be lected. An an a lysis of the have." only 10 offensive linemen separate squads appears in to­The Notre Dame head man's available for action. day's sports section. comments on the state of his Tuesday also dealt the Irish 
team going into the scrimmage offense another damaging 
One of the annual rites of were typical Lou Holtz state­blow. The quarterback situa­spring on the Notre Dame ments: ..We've made a lot of tion, tenuous at best, now has campus will take place tomor­progress. We're not a good to face the loss of one of two row when the annual Blue­football team, but we have the sophomores competing for the Gold intra-squad scrimmage potential to be a good football backup role. B.J. Hawkins suf­kicks off. team.'" fered serious damage to his 
This 61 st playing of the While spring practice has an­throwing arm, breaking his game, which starts Saturday at swered some personnel ques­wrist and dislocating his elbow 
1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame tions for the Irish, it has also when he was hit during a Stadium, concludes 12 days of created its share of problems. scrimmage. spring practice, a fewer Injuries on the offensive line Incumbent Rick Mirer will number of days than the NCAA have left Notre Dame with only handle the duties for one of the had permitted for spring one healthy center. Sophomore practice in years gone by. Tim Ruddy had to play almost see PREVIEW/ page 4 

BLUE vs GOLD 
page 2 Friday, April26, 1991 
Defensive line promises strength despite losses 
By ROLANDO de AGUIAR Bryant Young and Brian Williams' teammates agree. the last couple of days," said will make a strong comeback. Sports Writer Hamilton, have improved and "Boo Williams is playing bet­Bryant. "I've been learning and "He (Jones) played a lot for will be forces to be reckoned ter than he ever has," said improving my fundamental us last year, and he did very 
The loss of two All­with in the future. nosetackle Junior Bryant. skills." well," Bumpas said. "I see no Americans cannot possibly With Zorich returning home Junior Bryant has looked Young is seen as a starter reason why he should not play benefit any defensive line, but to play for the Chicago Bears in strong this spring and is pro­right now by the Irish coaching as well as he did for us last the remaining players on the Soldier Field, and Dahl jected as a starter for the fall. staff, and they have been im­year. Irish line have improved this heading to Riverfront Stadium "Junior Bryant is a lot pressed by his improvement. spring, and show promise for and the Cincinnati Bengals, quicker this year than he was "Bryant Young has had an Another possible contributor the upcoming season. one starter remains from the last season," said Young. outstanding spring, and has a on the defensive line is sopho­
However, the Irish feel confi­1990 defensive line which Bryant, however, feels that chance to be a great football more Brian Hamilton. Hamil­dent in themselves. Several terrorized Irish opponents. he has had an uneventful player," said Irish coach Lou ton, who saw limited action for players have stepped to the Boo Williams. spring. Holtz. the Irish in 1990, is seen as an­forefront to fill the shoes of "Nothing spectacular has other future star by his Bob Dahl and Chris Zorich. Williams will lead a group of happened," said Bryant. Nosetackle Eric Jones, who coaches. 
George 'Boo' Williams has inexperienced underclassmen However, the junior does feel saw considerable playing time "I think Brian Hamilton could returned for a fifth year and into battle this year. that the defensive line has in 1990 in relief of All-Ameri­be a good player," said Eric Jones, though inactive this Returning for his fourth year made great strides as a unit. can Chris Zorich, is out this Bumpas. "But he still needs to spring, will be ready in the fall of eligibility, Williams has "The defensive line has come spring with a ruptured spleen. work hard." to fight for a starting spot. earned rave reviews all around together as a whole," said Jones hopes to return in the Hard work has brought the 
Junior Bryant has made for his performance this Bryant. fall to compete for a starting Irish this far. and it could bring 
large strides this April and will spring. Sophomore tackle Bryant spot. them to the level the defensive also compete for playing time. "We count on our seniors to Young has improved greatly "I am going to come out in line of 1990 achieved. Troy Ridgley could possibly be leaders," said Irish coach this spring, and has closed the fall and just play the best I "I think the young guys will 
return in the fall from a year at Lou Holtz. "George Williams is spring practice with several can play," Jones said. have a chance to be as good as Holy Cross Junior College. a leader; they listen when he strong performances. Offensive line coach Dick the guys who left," said Finally, Two sophomores, talks." "I had a lot of improvement Bumpas believes that Jones Bumpas. 
next season."
Backfield 

All the backs are excited about how well spring practice
continued from page 3 

has gone this year. 
done less on and off the field 
"I feel very comfortable at
than I ever have in the past. He tailback this year," said Reggieis very, very much in command 

Brooks, a converted corner­
of himself at all times." 

back.
"At this junction in the sea­
"I think I've played pretty
son, coach Beck knows the of­

well," said Clark. "I had to
fensive scheme well," said se­

switch positions and I thinknior fullback Ryan Mihalko. 
I've done pretty well." 
"This helps us to better under­"I had a pretty good spring
stand and execute the 

and my goal for the coming
schemes. The coaching 

season is simply to improve,"transition was smooth and all said Levens.
the players have taken well to 
"I think spring practice has
coach Beck." 

been very productive," said
There have been several 

Bettis. "I have come to realizechanges in the backfield from what a fullback has to do be­last season. Last season's lead­
cause during the season, you
ing rusher, Rodney Culver (150 do not have the time to learn

carries, 710 net yards), has 

new things."
moved from fullback to tail­
The 1991 Notre Dame run­back. This leaves Jerome Bettis 

ning backs are unique. Each
and Mihalko as the lone full­back is unselfish. yet they allbacks at the present time. 

have very different styles. 
Fullback Walter Boyd has 
"The tailbacks make my jobspent the spring on the sideline easier because I only have towith an ankle injury and will 

block and I know they canrejoin after his ankle heals. 
break one at almost any time,"
Also moving to tailback is 

said Bettis.
sophomore speedster Willie Both Bettis and Mihalko
Clark and junior Reggie 

agree the tailbacks have differ­
Brooks. Junior Dorsey Levens me every step of the way." Holtz is very optimistic about football team, we're in serious
ent styles and both have no
will also play a key role in the Mihalko has seen Bettis de­the prospects for a strong trouble."
doubt that each tailback is very 
backfield. velop and he has some goals to backfield. "Jerome Bettis has firmly
talented.
Senior Tony Brooks has not accomplish this year. Mihalko "We felt that Willie Clark had established himself as the
"Willie is a slasher," said

practiced this spring in order want the offense to build on a chance to be an outstanding number-one fullback," said
Bettis, "whereas Rod is a bull
to concentrate on academics, what has been achiP-ved this running back, but he had trou­Holtz.
with blazing speed and decep­
but he should be back for the spring and make the unit as ble holding onto the ball last Holtz has drawn some com­
tive moves. Reggie is a cutback
fall. Fullback Kenny Spears solid as possible. year," said Holtz. "He has good parison between Culver and
speedster and Dorsey provides 
has retired due to kidney "Jerome is a very solid speed and excellent body con­Levens.
all the muscle."
problems. player," said Mihalko. "He can trol. He's only 177 pounds, but "Dorsey Levens has looked both run and block." he's a strong 177 pounds and good. He's done some awful
Bettis is very glad that

Beck is pleased with the ef­he's a durable 177 pounds." good things with the football." 
Mihalko has been there to help
fort the players have shown in The tailbacks have much "Rodney Culver is what we The Irish should be just as
him.
spring practice. praise for Bettis. call a 'tweener,' a combination strong as ever next season
"We call Ryan 'Teacher' be­

"Bettis, Mihalko and Culver "In my opinion, Jerome is the tailback and fullback," said when the Irish open with
cause he knows all the rules,
are the leaders of our unit," number-one fullback in the Holtz. "He is what Notre Dame Indiana. Holtz and Beck can
assignments and techniques,"
said Beck. "They all exemplify country," said Reggie Brooks. is all about-he's unselfish, only hope that this year's
said Bettis. "He has been criti­
the Notre Dame attitude of "He blocks like an offensive tough, durable and a backfield will remain healthy
cal to me because he has
hard work and unselfish play. I tackle and runs like a wonderful person. If Culver and continue to build on what
stayed behind me and pushed
am tremendously excited about tailback." isn't one of the leaders on our has been done this spring. 

Wideouts 
continued from page 3 
lineup. Griggs, however, suffered an ankle injury this spring, and has practiced little. 
"It's been frustrating for him (Griggs)," said Skip Holtz. "He pulled a hamstring last fall, and tore his ankle this spring. It seems that every time we make up the depth chart, he's hurt." 
The problem for the Irish at flanker has not been injuries, but inexperience. Ismail is not the only departure at the posi­tion. Shawn Davis, who started in 1990's home loss to Stanford in Ismail's absence, has left Notre Dame, as well. 
However, the Irish have sev­eral individuals ready to fill the role of flanker, which has been played by Ismail, Ricky Watters, and Tim Brown since Holtz came to Notre Dame in 1986. 

Adrian Jarrell, a junior whose most memorable catch of 1990 came off of a deflection inside the Michigan State five­yard line, setting up the winning Irish score, is the frontrunner for the position. Jarrell also caught the game­winning touchdown against Michigan and spent most of the season in the second slot on the Irish depth chart, earning a start against USC. 
Sophomore Clint Johnson, a speedster who shuttled from quarterback to wideout to de­fensive back through 1990, has shown promise this spring. 
An option quarterback in high school, Johnson has en­joyed his move to wide receiver. 
"I know that we have Rick Mirer, so my skills would be better used at wide receiver," said Johnson. 
Johnson's work at receiver has not gone unnoticed. 
"Clint Johnson has improved as much this spring as much as any receiver I have seen," said Holtz. 
Also competing for time at flanker is senior Martin Scruggs. Scruggs has seen lim­ited action in his first three years with the Irish, but seems to have realized his potential this spring. 
"It's like Martin woke up and said, 'Hey, I'm a senior. I want to play,"' said Skip Holtz. 
Three individuals are competing for playing time at split end this spring, though Griggs will re-enter the race when fall practice beings. 
Senior Tony Smith, who started all 12 games for the Irish at split end in 1990 while catching 15 passes for a 15.3­yard average, will likely end up as the Irish starter at the posi­tion once again. Smith is the acknowledged leader of the wide receiving corps. 
"I see myself as a leader when we go on to the field," said Smith. "I try to help them out and show them the ropes." 
Several of those people Smith is helping are trying to take his job. Smith's challengers at split end include Lake Dawson and William Pollard. Dawson, a sophomore, saw considerable action for the Irish in 1990, catching se·;en passes for a 17 .8-yard average, including a 41-yard reception off of yet an­other deflection, which set up an early fourth-quarter touch­down against Michigan. 
Pollard caught one pass for the Irish last fall, and has also improved this spring. 
Smith relishes his competition at split end, and welcomes the challenge made by Dawson and Pollard. 
"It's always great for some­one to be right there with you, pushing you along," said Smith. "If I were not competing, I might end up going backwards." 
Holtz, too, believes that the competition will help the Irish team. 
"Last year, we had Rocket and Adrian Jarrell ready to play," said Skip Holtz. "We didn't want to just put the best guy out there, we wanted them to play up to our expectations. But this year, we have six peo­ple who we think can do the job." 
Holtz has only one serious concern with the receiving corps. 
"I worry about a game­breaker at wide receiver," he said. 
The player who has prema­turely been labeled 'the next Rocket' will arrive at Notre Dame this August. Mike Miller, a wide receiver from Texas, is the cream of Irish recruiting crop, and could be the big-play man the Irish lack at wideout. 
• 

BLUE vs GOLD
Friday, April 26, 1991 
page 3 

Irish offense rebuilding with youth 
Wide receivers improve steadily 
By ROLANDO de AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
The departure of Raghib Ismail to the Canadian Football League marks a severe blow to the Notre Dame receiving corps. 
The emergence of several players, however, will put the Irish in a strong position at flanker as well as at split end and tight end. 
Starting at tight end for the Irish will be honorable mention All-American Derek Brown. The senior, who caught 15 passes in 1990, has shown vast improvement this spring, according to coach Lou Holtz. 
"The most improved football player on our team might go to Derek Brown," said Holtz. "Derek Brown, until just recently, has never learned to find the hole in the defense. 
"He is a legitimate great player from what I've seen this spring." 
Brown's strong spring has put an exclamation point on his cemented starting spot. The situation is not nearly as clear at either of the wideout positions. 
"We have six players who have proven they can handle a game-like situation," said receivers coach Skip Holtz. 
Not included in this group, junior Hay Griggs is in contention for an important spot in the Irish 

Running backs end spring strong 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
Irish fans have come to expect excellence from all parts of their team. 
Running backs are no exception. Over the past four seasons, the offensive backfield has not been ranked below fourteenth in the final NCAA statistics. Last season, the Irish finished at twelfth with an average of 250.3 yards per game. 
The only loss in the backfield is tailback Ricky Watters. Watters finished last season with very impressive stats. Rushing, he carried the ball 108 times for 579 net yards, a team-high eight touchdowns. His rushing average of 5.4 yards per carry led all rushers who had over 70 carries. He also caught seven passes for 58 yards. Watters was drafted 45th by the San Francisco 49ers to fill the gap left by the departure of Roger Craig. 
The Irish begin the year with a new running back coach. Tom Beck comes to Notre Dame after serving six years as the head coach of Grand Valley State. His final record was 50-18 after taking over a team that finished 0-10 in 1984. Beck replaces Peter Vaas, who moved to quarter­back coach in the absence of Pete Cordelli, who became head coach at Kent State. 
"Tom Beck has been a valuable addition to our football team," said head coach Lou Holtz. "I've 
Rodney Culver (#5) heads for a hole during spring drills. (Photo see WIDEOUTS/ page 2 by David Lee.) · see BACKFIELD/ page 2 
Veterans, new talents bolster offensive line 
By ROLANDO de AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
The offensive line is the cornerstone of any successful football squad. This spring, the Irish line is made up of several individuals who can support not only the Notre Dame team, but many buildings. 
Returning three starters and several experienced veterans, much of the Irish line has been injured this spring, but the unit nonetheless looks very strong. 
Senior Mirko Jurkovic is the returning starter at right guard for the Irish. Jurkovic, who is 6-5, and tips the scales at 281 pounds, started 10 of 11 games last year. and promises to again be a force for the Irish. 
At left guard, sophomore Aaron Taylor (6-4. 270) has 
made an impressive impact. "He's picking it up pretty Taylor is trying to fill the shoes quick," said Jurkovic. of the departed Tim Ryan, who Senior Lindsay Knapp (6-6, started for three years under 261), is projected as a starting Irish coach Lou Holtz. tackle for the fall. Knapp saw 
"Aaron Taylor would proba­considerable action for the bly be penciled in at starting Irish last fall. guard," said Holtz. "Lindsay Knapp has been 
particularly impressive," said 
Taylor hopes to showcase his returning starter Justin Hall. abilities in his Blue-Gold Game debut. Competing with Knapp this 
"I want to play a complete spring is Winston Sandri. San­game and try to utilize all the dri was also a significant con­things I've spent the last two tributor to the Irish line in weeks learning." said Taylor. 1990, starting five games in 
Making the transition from place of injured teammates. tackle to center. and replacing One of the biggest surprises three-year starter Mike Heldt, this spring has been junior is senior Gene McGuire. Todd Norman. Norman, who McGuire (6-5, 270). who played very little last season, started 10 games for last year's has impressed coaches and team at left tackle, has had to peers alike. make the adjustment to center. "Norman has had an excel­lent spring," said Holtz. "I think Todd Norman and Mike McGlinn have been some of the most impressive players so far." 
Norman continues to hold the starting spot at right tackle, while McGlinn (6-7. 
250) a sophomore who saw no action during the 1990 season, is slated as a backup tackle. 
"Todd Norman has been playing really well," said Knapp. "He's improved a lot this spring." 
One of the frustrating aspects of play for the offensive line this spring have been the in­juries to 1990 starter Hall, cen­ter Lance Johnson and guard Bernard Mannelly. 
Hall (6-5, 295) started nine games for the Irish last year 
and looks to challenge Norman at right tackle upon his return. Despite his injury this spring, 
the senior believes he  can  
make  a  comeback for  fall  
practice.  

"It's kind of a relief because I have had back trouble for a couple of years," said Hall. "With this rest, I'll have a chance to come back and play next fall." 
The rest of the Irish squad has been impressed with the offensive line's development this spring. 
"For the team to work, they (the offensive line) have to know what they are doing," said fifth-year senior fullback Ryan Mihalko. "The cohesive­ness and the unity are starting to come together." 
McDonald, DuBose lead inexperienced linebackers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Editor 
To the untrained eye, a linebacking corps which has suffered the loss of four 
starting  seniors  and  two  
underclassmen is  a  unit in  
disarray.  

Not so at Notre Dame, where coaches Gary Darnell and Jay Hayes are hard at work filling numerous gaps, including those left by the graduation of Don Grimm, Andre Jones, Scott Kowalkowski and Michael Stonebreaker, and the transfer of Eric Simien and Shawn Smith. 
"Our biggest area of concern is outside linebacker," noted Irish head coach Lou Holtz at his Tuesday teleconference. "That's the area that concerns me the most." 
Yet it would be imprudent to believe that Notre Dame is suffering from a lack of talent. Rest assured that the Irish still have their share of high cards in their hand. 
"We're doing very well." maintained Hayes. "At first, we'll miss the experience of Kowalkowski and Jones, but we'll be all right after that. Our spring practices have been pretty good, and we're learning. Right now, our goal is to be the best that we can be. We're looking for a consistent player to be a starter. 
"We're just working on the basic fundamentals; we're teaching guys to play football. That's what we stress as a team. We start at ground zero and work on everything up from there." 
Aside from competing on the field, the 1991 linebackers are already competing and helping to push each other in their competition for starting spots. The Notre Dame depth charts are once again well-stocked, featuring no fewer than seven outside linebackers and five inside linebackers. 
While McDonald is the grand-daddy of the outside corps, Oliver Gibson, Dean Lytle, Anthony Peterson, and Nick Smith all stand poised to make significant contributions. 
"Devon McDonald, who has been starting off and on, is back," related Hayes. "He's experienced and is helping the younger guys. Some of our younger guys haven't played all that much. but they are all 
see LINEBACKERS/ page 4 

-
-
page 4 

Fnday,April26, 1991
BLUE vs GOLD 
Experience mark of secondary 
Tom Carter, Greg Davis lead squadron of returnees 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Experience. 
That is the difference between the Notre Dame secondary last year and this year. This season the Irish return seven monogram­winners, as compared to three a year ago. 
The lone loss is two-year All­American Todd Lyght, who was drafted fifth in this year's NFL draft by the Los Angeles Rams. 
Last year, the Irish gave up an average of 267.1 yards per game passing. As a result, the secondary changed almost ev­ery week. 
"I believe the answers in the secondary are on our campus right now," said head coach Lou Holtz earlier this spring. 
"The secondary is the most improved area on our football team," said Holtz, "but I don't know how good we will be." 
The backfield will be led by senior strong safety Greg Davis. At press time, Jeff Burris and John Covington are competing for the starting free safety job. Rod Smith and Tom Carter will be the starting cornerbacks. 
The second unit will consist of monogram-winners George Poorman and Greg Lane as well as sophomores LeShane Saddler and Marvin Robinson. 

"There is confidence in the secondary," said Davis. "We have a lot more depth and ex­perience going into the fall this year than we did last season." 
The defensive backfield is coached by first-year coach Ron Cooper. He comes to Notre Dame after serving as defensive coordinator at UNLV under former Irish assistant Jim Strong. 
"Everyone has taken well to him," said Davis. "He is very intense on the field." 
Cooper feels the defensive backfield has had a good spring. 
"The players attitudes and work ethics have been excel­lent," said Cooper. "We have had no bad days of practice and we have gotten better ev­ery day." 
Cooper is not setting any goals for his unit. He does, however, have some team goals. 
"We want to hold up our end of the bargain," he commented. "We want to contribute to the team and have consistently strong play." 
The players are excited about playing for Cooper. 
"I couldn't be more excited about playing for coach Cooper," said Smith. "He is an 
athlete's coach-he allows us 
to  use  our  athletic  ability  
rather  than  using  strict  
coverage rules."  

This excitement has benefit­ted the players. 
"I feel that I have had a very successful spring," said Smith. "I am playing more aggres­sively now and have gained confidence." 
"I think I have improved a lot," said Davis. "The coverages are much simpler and I'm looking forward to the fall." 
The leader of the backfield, Davis, is affectionately known as 'The Godfather,' because of his leadership and his ability to make the big hit. 
"Greg has played great,'' said Smith. Members of the backfield are confident in each other. 
"I know that both Tom and Jeff (Burris) can get the job done," said Covington. 
The players have not set any real personal goals, but they have some team and unit goals which will hinge on them. 
"I want to have the number one secondary in the nation," said Smith. "We have really come together as a unit." 
Burris echoed Smith's senti­ments. "I want to have the best de­fense in the nation," said 

Burris, "and I'll do anything to evident the secondary has help the team." come full circle and will be a As spring practice comes to a key to the Irish success next close and the fall nears, it is year. 

"I've been working on pass outside linebacker during the Devon. He has given me advice tryout with the Cardinals goes. Linebackers rushing," commented later part of last season, and and let me know that all I have "DuBose is the only McDonald. "I'm also trying to now I have to learn exactly to do is give it my best shot. experience player we have,"
continued from page 3 

pretty much lead by example. how to play. I really have to get I'm trying to master my stated Darnell. "Demetrius is
coming around this spring. I 

Coach expects a lot out of me fundamentally sound. position and I think that I've our focal point and is also athink that they'll all have a role and I've got to live up to his "I've been watching Devon come a long way. talented leader. Flanigan is
to play and be very 

dream and my dream. We're because he has been on the "We're going to be a great also talented. He is big, strongcompetitive." 
all playing pretty well together team longer and he knows how team if we keep improving like and plays the run well. Our"Peterson is starting at drop and our attitude is good. The to do the things I'm trying to we have been. As far as spring, success really hinges on him,
end now and he is being 

young guys love the game. learn. The only thing other I feel really good about it," said but Ratigan must be ready to
pushed very hard by 

They want to play and they than the fundamentals that I Peterson. "If we continue to step in at any time. Bereich hasKarmeeleyah McGill, who has want to get better, which is a have to maintain is my improve like this throughout been hurt this spring, and hejust switched over from tight real positive both for the team intensity. That's the next most the season, we'll do very well." lacks experience, but he
end. Gibson and Lytle each 

and for them." important thing to the The inside linebackers also doesn't have that much farther
have lots of athletic ability. 

Lytle and Peterson, fundamentals." have a returning leader in the to go. Scianna is experienced,They can really run and have 
meanwhile. two former inside Peterson, who is expected to hard-hitting Demetrius but he's out with colitis." 
shown some improvement this 

linebackers, are striving to see action at drop end, finds DuBose, who registered 48
season." 

make the most of their new himself in much the same tackles last season. DuBose In the end, the party lineConscious of the leadership 
positions. situation as Lytle. and Jim Flanigan, who are coming into the Blue-Goldexpected of him, McDonald has 
"It's an uphill road," said "Things have been going projected to be awarded the game and the 1991 season is
attempted to mold himself into 

Lytle. "but I'm slowly getting to pretty well," exclaimed starting inside positions, are one of optimism. 
the model player. 

where I want to be. I moved to Peterson. 'Tve been watching complemented by Pete Bereich, "I'm just going to do my Brian Ratigan and Randy best," said McDonald. "The Scianna. game is a fun game. There's no 
pressure and no one really 
Darnell, coach of the inside wins or loses. It's a game to squad, is painfully aware of the have fun and do your best. I choices which lie ahead of him. think that next season's going 
"The difference between this to be good. Even though we year and last year is that last have a young team, I've seen it year we were very in practice. Everyone is having experienced. This year, we fun, giving hi-fives. Of course have more youthful there are going to be some enthusiasm and excitement. down times, but overall our Stonebreaker and Grimm were attitude is pretty good." two big losses. Everyone on the "We've got a lot of good other team knew where sophomores," concluded Holtz Stonebreaker was, and he was in an early spring press still successful. Grimm, conference. "They're talented, meanwhile, really understands intelligent and great, great the defense. He has been workers. We're not really deep helping us out this spring, and but we have a group of guys may be a graduate assistant who likes to compete and likes for us. depending on how his to work." 
celebrity coaches. This yearPreview Frank Eck and Ray Meyo, both known for their contributions
continued from page 1 
of sports facilities (the tennisteams, while sophomore Kevin 
pavilion and the track inMcDougal wil1 handle the 
Loftus, respectively) will do the 
other squad. After that, the 
honorary coaching. 

Irish will have to go to walk-on Proceeds from the game willMatt Johnson at quarterback. 
go the Saint Joseph Valley
Finding a backup quarter­Scholarship Fund, which bene­back is a priority for Holtz and fits students from the immedi­the Irish, and that help may be ate area who choose to attendcoming from a familiar face. 
Notre Dame. 

"We must find a quarterback Tickets to the game are stillwho can play championship­available. In advance, they cost 
level football," said Holtz. 
$4 for adults and $2 for chil­"Hopefully Jake Kelchner will dren under 17. On game day,return to Notre Dame, but that 
the tickets will cost $5 fordecision is up to the 
adults and $3 for children. Alladmissions department." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sBut for now, the Irish will 
students will be admitted to
have to concentrate on playing 
_the game free with
football with the players they identification.
have available, and for their 






