

..---------------------------------~-------­

~.~~~t -Q~·

---tit--­
-1&4 2-1992 SfSQUICENHNNlAl 
SaintMarys Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 29 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · 

The false allusion of Northern Ireland is discussed 
By BILL ALBERTINI national ideas and pride than trolled Belfast, also partici­said. Although the conflict appears religion, said Sir Kenneth pated. Bloomfield is no exception, to be religious in origin, Bloom­I I News Writer Bloomfield, former Second The unrest in Northern Ire­he said: field said that the heads of the 
I
Permanent Undersecretary of land has made it "a bit of a dis­• In 1988. his house was Anglican and Catholic Churches 
I
State for the government of tressing time" for people ev­blown up in and attempt on his in North and South Ireland live 
~
The conflict in Northern Ire­Northern Ireland. erywhere, according to Bloom­life. in Belfast, get along well, and 
-~ 
land is primarily not a religious Bloomfield was part of a field. However, in a community •A co-worker had her legs share similar views. If there is one, but one based on extreme panel discussion yesterday, of only 1.5 million people, the blown ofT by a bomb in her car. religious animosity, it tends to nationality and loyalty, accord­"Northern Ireland: The Last 20 two thousand civilian deaths •A friend of the family was be more individual than group­J I ing to a former civil servant in years and a Look Into the fu­caused by the fighting has spe­killed while at work because he oriented, he said. that country. ture." Jay Dolan, professor of cial importance for the people was in the timber business, and Bloomfield admits that there 
Since Protestantism is asso­history at Notre Dame and di­of Northern Ireland. the timber he sold went toward is "some religious animosity in 
ciated witl). Britain, and 
rector of the Cushwa Center for There are very few people in the rebuilding of police stations Northern Ireland." He also Catholics in Northern Ireland the Study of Catholicism at Northern Ireland who have not that had been blown up by ter­stated that the Protestants are wish to be united with the rest Notre Dame; and Paul Gargan, experienced the violence, either rorists. In retaliation, a 
of Ireland, the conflict appears a chemist who grew up a personally or through the suf­Protestant group had a Catholic 
see Ireland/page 4 
to be more of a difference of Catholic in Protestant-con-fering of an acquaintance, he shopkeeper killed. 

The hearings of Robert Gates lay bare painful divisions 
WASHINGTON (AP} -Robert former director of the agency's Soviet analysis." Gates' confirmation hearings top analysis-writing body and a In measured tones that some­Wednesday laid bare painful respected intelligence veteran. times quivered with strain, she and bitter division within the Ford, who reversed his initial described Gates as a heavy­CIA. A former analyst, saying support of Gates in recent handed manager who imposed she spoke for many who weeks, said he received calls his strongly held anti-Soviet couldn't come forth, accused from 16 or 18 mid-level and se­views on subordinates and the director-designate of nior officials currently or brooked no dissent. "prostitution" of intelligence formerly at the CIA telling him "I think they were ... frighten­analysis. "you got it right; we admire ing experiences in that the fear 
your courage." He said the of being labeled a Soviet apolo­
Jennifer Glaudemans, in an callers were from both the. op­gist sharply inhibited analytical emotional appeal to the Senate erations ~nd analysis. sides of initiative and bureaucratic Intelligence Committee not to the ·ageney: assertiveness," said Glaude­confirm Gates, joined two other mans, who resigned from the former CIA analysts in accusing Ford, who now serves as a agency in 1989 and conveyed him of slanting intelligence to consultant at the agency, said her concerns to the CIA's in­conform with the anti-Soviet the calls reflect "some smoke in spector general and her superi­views of his superiors. some rooms, even though ors. 
President Bush, asked about there's no smoking gun ... " Glaudemans said she was the accusations against his Gates will take the stand particularly disturbed that Cultures dance into students' lives nominee, said "it seems funny" again Thursday, the committee Gates prevented any analysis that the critics are only now announced. He had been sched­that described a declining So­
On Wednesday afternoon before the downpour came, a Mexican hat 
coming forth. uled to reappear after other viet Union. "I think it is a pa­
dance was performed in light of the multi-cultural activities being held 
"But I know Bob Gates and I testimony ends, expected later thetic shame that analysts had
this week. 
know he wouldn't slant an es­Wednesday. this story to tell in 1985 and timate for some political pur­In her testimony, Glaudemans 1986, but could not get it out." pose," said Bush, a former CIA said, "I do not believe I have Gates' supporters agreed that
Dance is proposed 
director who named Gates his ever heard such a bitter cry for a perception exists among 
deputy national security adviser greater integrity than I have agency analysts that they are By JEANNE DEVITA by various SMC or ND groups is in 1989. recently coming out of my col­expected to skew their analyses News Writer also being investigated as an ·Nonetheless, Glaudemans leagues" in the Soviet analysis to suit the policy goals of the 
activity to highlight the activity said she was speaking for many division, "who hold the view administration. But they re­
A campus-wide free dance that the Board considers more at the CIA who felt very differ­that Gates and his politicization jected accusations that Gates was proposed for spring at the than just a dance. ently. So did Hal Ford, the has led to the prostitution of was responsible. Saint Mary's StJJdent Activities What SAB called a massive 
Board (SAB) meeting Wednes­fundraising campaign will begin 
day night. as soon as the proposal has been passed. SAB' plans to ap­point a committee to organize
Vice president of Student Af­

all aspects of the dance, includ­fairs Meg McGowan suggested ing fundraising. 
the dance which she said will While the Board recognizesbecome SAB's 'big baby' project 
the enormous costs involved,for the year. The residence 
Board members said they feelhalls, individual classes, SAB ideas such as, an auction, vari­
and an off-campus contingent will contribute to organizing the ous on-campus sales, a possible 
Chicago trip auction, promo­
event. SAB plans to suggest tions from U93 radio station,
that the residence halls forfeit 
and corporate sponsors couldtheir spring dances so that all 
raise enough money to fund theattention can be focused on the 
campus-wide spring dance. dance. In addition, they feel the elimination of an admission 
SAB proposed that each resi­cost to the dance will generate dence hall be responsible for student interest. organizing an event in the re­spective lobbies. Food will be SAB confirmed Security 
Week, beginning October 6.
available in the Haggar Parlor. Alcohol will be provided in the Saint Mary's has also been in­
vited to participate in the Notre
Clubhouse for students over 21, but students will need to buy Dame Homecoming Parade. tickets in advance and a one The Pumpkin carving at Hag­drink per hour limit will be set. gar, movies kicking off Fall Fest 
and a storyteller performance A DJ will provide music for for Club Tuesday were the Dining Hall, where most of confirmed. SAB is considering 
the dancing will take place. lengthening the time of the In­The board is investigating using ternational Party on Wednesday Saint Mary's students view options 
the Library Green as another and is in the process of finding a volunteer to dress as a Saint Mary's students Shanna Randolph (front) and Casey Chandler listen to Mary Coursey, a profes­
dance location. Performances 
pumpkin and distribute candy sional recruiter, as she explains the Holy Cross Family Hospital in Plymouth, Indiana. 


Thursday, October 3, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
ons1deration 1s appreciated at the 'brare 


Upon first sight, the Theodore M. Hesburgh Memorial Ubrary is quite impressive. It even looks neat on the inside. 
Of course, there is always room for im­provement.

First, a sign on the Dave Dleteman twelfth floor greets all Sports Editor comers with these words: "Notice -11th, 12th and 13th floors are study areas. Visitors are asked to be quiet." 
How quaint, yet how informative. 
How silly of students to have thought that all the floors were study floors. What is most disturbing, however, is that the sign only appears on the twelfth floor. Was it stolen by an overzealous tourist? Sadly, the missing signs are probably hanging in Grace Hall, which, on a given night, is about as quiet as the 'brare. 
At any rate, no visitor is ever as noisy as the cow who downs five crinkly, noisy bags of Mrs. Vifiier's sour cream and onion.potato chips, washed down by a Diet Mountain Dew, each opened with the most noise possible. 
But no matter how much the swine at the carrel next to you can eat and drink, the Walkman beats them hands down when it comes to noise pollution. 
How people hear themselves think-or hear anything for that matter-is a mystery. 
Of course, there are two other sources of noise pollution-shoes and twits. Sneakers are usually pretty compatible with a decent studying environment, unless they're wet. Loafers, high­heels and any other hard-soled shoe, however, are offensive. With all the clicking caused by people parading aimlessly. around the second floor, the place sounds more like a proving grounds for typewriters or tap shoes. How about some carpeting? 
As lines build up outside the computer lab, idle students run their mouths and summarily run everyone else from the nearby carrels. Why not place a revolving door at the entrance of the hallway to the lab and reserve book room? Why not carpet that hallway? 
Still, the lab area is no match for the ultimate in noisemakers-the audio room. Any day of the week, at any time, those studying near the audio-visual center are liable to have their eardrums shattered by a .few bars of Beethoven. 
While classical music is not necessarily a bad thing, the way it's played in the library would draw a citation if the South Bend police were within fifty feet. 
Carpeting the whole library and closing of noisy hallways, however, could never eliminate the one root of all noise problems-rudeness. 
Were people to simply be considerate of those studying nearby, there would be no problems. Common sense tells any rational soul that the place is by no means soundproof-the walls are plate glass, after all. 
In the end, there is something of a social contract involving studying. If Mr./Ms. A is obnoxious and disrupts all those near him, then there is good reason to believe that people should try very hard to get Mr./Ms. A's name and number, and call him at 4 a.m. to see how he is sleeping after such a rough night of studying. 
Today's Staff 
News Lauren Aquino Ann Marie Hartman  Business Collen Gannon Collette LaForce  
Photography Marquerite Schropp David Hungeling Elisa Klosterman  Accent Jahnelle Harrigan Patrick Moran Fran Moyer  
Sports Rich Kurz  Scoreboard Mike Scrudato  
Viewpoint Rich Riley  Graphics Ann Marie Conrado  
lab Tech John Rock  Production Kathy Fang Cheryl Moser  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

.w·... ·. ...··.T.··HE..'.·.·A·.. .. ...···E· ..···•··· ..... Fprecjistfor noon,ThUrSday, October3 <.
e· •·. · ·
A· ...•..•_ A.. ·····-•P·o.'.•R _.,_·••.·...•.••.. ti~snowffignt~iperaturil~ · · 
.·.'•''':~ 
60s 
:-:-.-:-.-:-·;·· 

. . . . ~ 
. H+ •+ Cokt front \!)ftighpn!$Sure 
·• ,•.. warm front.·,··· ....·.,.··.·.·,·,_,_,'·.•··', ... , 
···· · · ...•..•.•.·.·. f'L\t,oW rv.;,!Nu,..
• • SbUIC~.OID>\:.1 .. """" ··... > 
·:-.·-: . ·-·-·· .·.·-··.·---·-·· ···-·· 
.... / @1001 t\cQu~WeatherJf!C;, 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Coors iHays Clear Creek settlement 
•DENV R -Coors Brewing Co. has agreed to pay a $211,000 fine stemming from pollution in a creek that killed thousands of fish, the company said Wednesday. It was the third Coors settlement arising from the pollution in the creek that passes through brewery property. "This is the final agreement related to issues related to Clear Creek," said Becky Winning, a Coors spokeswoman. In the first of two incidents, the creek was contaminated with silver, mercury and copper waste from January 1990 to April 1990. 
Bush boosts Thornburgh's candidacy 
•PITTSBURGH-President Bush today defended his economic program and said exports have "galvanized our economy" even as he pledged to veto new unem­ployment benefits to the growing jobless population. Bush in a political speech to boost the Senate candidacy of his former attorney general, Dick Thornburgh, said if 
he had more Republicans like Thornburgh in Congress, "our economic growth package certainly wouldn't be gathering cobwebs on Capitol Hill." In the face of evidence that the economic recovery might not be as rosy as administration 

economists had claimed, Bush said, "We must build on our strengths. In the last four years our exports have increased nearly 57 percent, more than three times the rate of import growth. Exports have galvanized our economy." 
OF INTEREST 
•Christian 
Appalatian project representative, Ken Kinley, will talk to interested students considering volunteering with this program. He will speak in the library concourse from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 4, and at the esc from 1 p.m.-5 p.m. 

•showcase 
'91: Spotlighting Career and Employment Choices will be held today from 3 p.m.-5:30 p.m. in the LeMans Hall Lobby. Representatives from nearly 70 corporations, schools, government agencies, non-profit agencies, and volunteer programs will be present. 

•Dirty 
book sale in the concourse of Hesburgh library will be held from 9 a.m.-3:30pm. 


WORLD 
Winner most likely not a woman 
•sTOCKHOLM, Sweden -The Nobel Prize in literature will be announced Thursday, and the odds are the winner won't be a woman. The prize hasn't gone to a woman in 25 years. "We are aware of the problem, and we have asked ourselves if there is a system failure in the way in which the candidates are nominated," Sture AHen, permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, said last week. German-born Swedish writer Nelly Sachs was the last woman to be picked for the Nobel by the academy. She shared it in 1966 with Israeli author ShmueL There have been five other women winners since the prize began in 1 901. 
Japan's Finance Minister resigns 
•TOKYO -Finance· Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto on Thursday offered his resignation to take responsibility for a slew of scandals plaguing the financial industry his ministry oversees. He told a packed news conference he wi1l step down only after attending a World Bank meeting in Bangkok, Thailand, in mid­October. Hashimoto, 54, has been regarded a future candidate for prime minister, but political observers agree that the financial industry scandals have derailed any hopes he might have had of replacing Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu this year. A grim-faced Hashimoto, his voice choked with emotion, said he had delayed his resignation until Parliament passed legislation prohibiting brokerages from compensating favored clients for investment losses. 
•saint 
Mary's senior father-daughter weekend regis­tration will be held from 7 p.m.-9 p.m. tonight in the Stapleton Lounge. 

•A 
memorial mass has been planned for former Notre Dame student Jay Kelly at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 

•Volunteers 
from the U.S. Peace Corps will host an information booth in the Hesburgh Library lobby on Thursday from 8:30-5 pm. At 7 p.m. that night, they will show a film seminar to interested students in the Center for Social Concerns. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1941: Adolf Hitler delivered a speech in Berlin in which he said Russia had been "broken," and would "never rise again." 

• 
In 1955: "Captain Kangaroo" and "The Mickey Mouse Club" premiered on CBS and ABC, respectively. 

• 
In 1962: Astronaut Wally Schirra blasted off from Cape Canaveral aboard the Sigma 7 on a nine-hour flight. 

•In 
1974: Frank Robinson was named major league baseball's first black manager,' put in charge of the Cleveland Indians. 


FORECAST: 
Partly sunny and pleasant today with highs in the 70s and lows in the 50s. Friday will be cloudy with a high of 66. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  97  68  
Atlanta  75  65  
Berlin  59  41  
Boston  80  64  
Chicago  80  63  
Dallas-Ft. Worth  87  60  
Denver  79  48  
Detroit  83  59  
Honolulu  91  76  
Houston  88  65  
ndianapolis  83  54  
London  64  55  
Los Angeles  99  73  
Madrid  73  54  
Miami Beach  90  78  
Moscow  73  55  
New Orleans  85  71  
New York  80  63  
Paris  63  48  
Philadelphia  68  49  
Rome  84  64  
St.louis  85  63  
San Franc1sco  78  55  
Seattle  64  48  
South Bend  70  51  
Tokyo  77  64  
Washington. D.C  79  63  


~\ l 
Thursday, October 3, The Observer page 3 


Foreign Minister defends Zionism before the·UN 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy defended Zionism as a tol­erant and liberal philosophy Wednesday before the General Assembly, which in 1975 de­nounced Zionism as a form of racism. 
Levy cit~d Israel's recent ac­ceptance of large numbers of Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union and Ethiopia. 
"The Zionist movement is colorblind," he said. "The dis­tinction between colors is alien to Zionism. Zionism is tolerant and liberal par excellence." Levy looked forward to "the repeal, in the near future, of that resolution which consti­tutes a calumny on this organi­zation and a disgrace to it." 
The General Assembly opened its annual session last week, and leading officials from around the world are address­ing the body. 
President Bush spoke last week and also called for the re­peal of the 1975 resolution. 
Arab countries say they will remain united in defending the resolution as long as Israel oc­cupies the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Golan Heights, east Jerusalem and a portion of southern Lebanon. 
The delegations of Lebanon, Iraq and the Palestine Libera­tion Organization boycotted his speech. 
Levy made no reference to the dispute over the continuing settlement of Jewish immi­grants in the occupied territo­ries. 
However, he did so later at a conference of the presidents of major American Jewish organi­zations. 
Levy said the policies of Israel and his conservative Likud party had always called for set­tlement building. "Is it suddenly news?" he asked. 
"These issues should be brought to the negotiating table with the Arabs," he told the Jewish leaders. He said set­tlement-building was not meant to be provocative. 

Levy said there was "no link­age" between repeal of the res­olution and Israeli participation in proposed Middle East peace talks. 
"In the aftermath of each of the wars that was forced upon us, Israel has appealed to the Arab states to conduct direct negotiations with it, with no prior conditions, to attain a true and durable peace. 
"It seems that this appeal will now come to fruition. In a few weeks, we are hopefully in face­to-face discussions with our neighbors," he said, speaking in French. 
Bahrain's foreign minister, Shaikh Mohamad bin Mubarak al Khalifa, later spoke before the General Assembly and said the U.N. Security Council should "force Israel to accept a comprehensive and just solution to the question of Palestine." 
He said such a settlement should be in line with U.N. reso­lutions, and should "recognize the right of the Palestinian people to establish their own independent state on their na­tional soil." 
Jordanian Foreign Minister Abdullah Nsour told the assembly that Palestinian should be allowed to participate in the coming peace conference "through representatives nominated by them of their own free will." 
Israel has said it will refuse to talk to Palestinians who are members of the PLO or who are from east Jerusalem, which Is­rael has annexed. 
WOrk one weekend a month and eam $18,000 for college. 
Ifyou have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Army National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks ayear, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New GI Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $11,000-or more-in monthly Army Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus ofup to $2,000 as soon 
as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And ifyou have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 extra per year. No other service offers you so many educational benefits, and asks so little of your tinie. 
So, ifyou can spare one weekend a month for your country, call your local recruiter. And help yourselfto a higher education. 
219-234-9258 

INDIANA 

ll1 
, . I 

Americans at their best 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Grasping art 

Diane Matthias explains French art ranging from the17th to 20th centuries to Notre Dame French students. Matthias is a familiar tour guide to many visitors of the Snite Museum of Art. 



prese11ts 
"Fight One More Round" 
'·~~--:,· 
·{_)··1 am only on<. b•" I •m "" "PeD(>IC, light 01\t IIHHC round 
·\I c.an't do ;all thtng'i. hut I t ·•· Y0t1 hve to be tnuc;h Peopte arr 
Jo $0ntcthmg Thai which I 
selfish, irresrom;•hle .ant1 self· 

do, I oucltt tn dn. ;~ncl 111 
ct:ntercd. but love them anyway. 
1 which I nu&ht 10 do. by thf 
All the thine.' that took a grace of God. I will do 

M 
lifetime: to bu•ld will be: tom 

down, but build uyway. When 
you've &i\'en the beu you have 
to the world. you are lucked in 
the l~tb. btn c•ve your best "()ncipluu: ts the ul11m•• 

tenet of cdu<"OIIfn)fl O•'K"'I'' 
c~t~hlishes the lnrm.ll. · 
.;achicvcmcl\1 1.1 '""·cur i 
there 1~ nu .JH.. qlllnc :1 
lc.amm):! ;:.m ·.~1.~ rl-~-· ~Don't gn amtmJ bl~minJ!: 
\\:1thuut .tr-...··,h•:;.: th · other (Ktlplc lUI )'U\H pli(!hl 1-. .lrl.&rch~ ( ;,,, ! . 11• ·,·n. blame }Uur:.dl. ~-t: IKJ.;;e ,( 
fOil en.! up :t nuChJIIg. tl\ 
lw-cau~r th::.l ~ 'llohll ~nu 
\1.")111 1<1 ~.... 

(Whose story was depictated in LEAN ON ME} 
Thursday October lOth 
7:00 p.m. Stepan Center Tickets available at Lafortune 
Info. Desk (Starting Oct. 3rd) ~Admission $3.00 for Students ~ General Admission $5.00 
.. \ 

The Observer

page4 Thursday, October 3, 1991 
ment and industry, according to ern Ireland had at the time. Bloomfield. Like any experiment, the




Chief says coup Ireland 
power-sharing government 
•The late 1960s set the tone needed time and luck to suc­
continued from page1 
for upheaval in Northern Ire­ceed, Bloomfield said. It had 
land, he said. There was the neither. civil rights movement in the Bloomfield and Gargan said

dashed dictatorship 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -The nation's army chief on Wednesday said the military would hand over power to Parliament, but warned ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide not to attempt a return from exile. 
Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras also claimed he and others had protected Aristide from rank­and-file soldiers who staged the Monday coup, which is believed to have claimed more than 100 lives. 
Aristide -who accused Cedras of leading the coup and called him "power mad" -flew from Venezuela to Washington to urge the United States and other members of the Organization of American States to help restore him to power in the troubled Caribbean nation. 
President Bush said he was "disinclined to use American force" to reverse the coup, but said the 32-nation OAS may discuss "a multinational force of some sort." Other possibilities include hemisphere-wide diplomatic and economic sanctions, said 
U.S. officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The United States and other Western nations have already suspended aid to Haiti, one of the world's poorest and most politically unstable nations. Coups have toppled six governments in the past five years. 
Haitians cautiously ventured from their homes to buy food Wednesday, but many shops remained closed in the capital of Port-au-Prince and traffic was light. The army appealed on the radio for people to return to work. Sporadic gunfire rang out, but fewer 
soldiers were on the streets. 
At a news conference, Cedras said soldiers, not senior officers, overthrew Aristide because of "flagrant" abuses of power. 
The last straw, he said, was the alleged training of an elite presidential guard under Aristide 's direct command. Some soldiers said the unit raised the specter of the Tonton Macoutes, the private army of the 29-year Duvalier dictatorship, which ended in 1986. 

Cedras denied he led the overthrow of Aristide, and claimed he and other army commanders intervened to save the leftist priest-turned­politican from angry soldiers who wanted to kill him. 
"I personally protected the president," Cedras said. 
A senior officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, backed up Cedras' claim that the army command did not initiate the coup. He said it began spontaneously at an army base where about 50 civilians were thought be undergoing training to form a presidential corps. 
Cedras, the 43-year-old army chief, was regarded before the coup as a moderate. He said the military would give the National Assembly decision-making power, but gave no indication of who would lead the government and made no mention of elections. 
But Cedras said he had not been in contact with the assembly, and it was unclear what steps, if any, were being taken to set up a new government. 
Cedras said he did not want Aristide to return to office. 
"I personally do not believe it's a good idea for Aristide to return." 
possibly more violent in a reli­gious sense than the Catholics. 
The unrest in Northern Ire­land seems to be the result of a power struggle, Bloomfield said. Although the Irish Catholics have a strong sense of nationalism, their 40 percent of the population is no match for the 60 percent Protestant population. 
Bloomfield explained the rule of the Protestants historically: 
•In 1920, Ireland was parti­tioned by the British govern­ment. The Protestants, who outnumbered the Catholics 2­to-1, felt that the nation was theirs to run. 
Because of the ratios of popu­lation, the Protestants ended up controlling the government, with the Catholics always com­peting for attention, Bloomfield added.· 
•In 1947, an education act was passed in Northern Ireland which helped to educate the Catholic underclass. By the late 1960s many Catholics were starting to notice the discrimi­nation against them in govern-


If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
NOVEMBER 15. THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 


Good things don't always come in small packages 

The Prudential 

Comptroller's Organization 


If you•re the best looking to ioin one of the biggest and most dynamic corporations in the world ... 
Explore employment opportunities with America's leading financial institution. 
The Comptroller's Organization will be interviewing on campus 

November 1 

For more information, contact your Career Placement Office. for schedule October 7·8 
United States, changes and protests by students all through Europe, and a general upsurge in nationalistic feelings among both Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland. 
This upsurge resulted in protests, riots and violence of which the police finally lost control. 
•In 1972, the army was called in, the Northern Ireland par­liament was suspended, and the entire Cabinet resigned. The idea was for the British to come 
into  Northern  Ireland  to  
restructure, then  move  out  
again, Bloomfield said.  

The result was the establish­ment of a power-sharing gov­ernment between the Catholic and Protestant groups in 1974, which lasted only five months. according to Bloomfield. 
The power-sharing govern­ment failed because of an in­dustry strike, he said. Gargan said he remembered the failure of the government from his youth, and the way it shattered the tremendous sense of hope which many Catholics in North-they both wished that the Bri­tish government had done more at the time to keep the new Northern Ireland government in power, rather than rolling over to its failure. 
Today, the reaction to the problems in Northern Ireland is ambivalent. Discussion of the situation is almost guaranteed to nearly empty out the House of Commons, Bloomfield said. The people and government of Britain are not nearly as inter­ested in the problem as they should be, he said, especially with the amount of money the country pours into Northern Ireland to fund public pro­grams. 
The new European Economic Community plans will not change the situation in North­ern Ireland very much, Bloom­field said. 
"What a strong, ineradicable thing a sense of nationality is," Bloomfield said, comparing the situation in Ireland to much of the recent action in Eastern Europe. Just as the Soviet Union could not suppress na­tionalism, he does not see how the EEC could. 


THUNDERBIRD 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
A DIFFERENCE OF DEGREE FOR A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE 
• 
45 years of educating international managers 

• 
Intense program ofmodem languages, world business and international studies leading to a Master of International Management degree 

• 
23,000 alumni worldwide who are leaders in business, government and not-for-profit organizations 


A representative will be on campus 
Tuesday, October 8th 
to discuss GRADUATE STUDY 
Appointments may be scheduled at your Career Center 
I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
Students can now obtain about $50,000.00wi.thin one years time towards college costs, and any other expenses. 
•

This money is available from bank, and deparbnent store 
credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student 
loans you might have, or are applying for. 
Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance your college education. 
l 00% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED, 
OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH! 
Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISHING CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., tl02 
Wilmington, DE 19803-370.0 
Name-------------------­
Ad~e~---------------------------­
City ________State ____Zip ____ 
Allow 3-4 weeks delivay. 
•Amount of funds may vary slightly fOI' each Individual 

The Observer 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 page 5 

Children are found 
NEW YORK (AP) -Two young brothers abducted in Los Angeles six weeks ago were found safe but scared at an airport bus stop Wednesday, a day after police went public with pictures of the boys and sketches of their captors. 
The boys were carrying a note that made allegations of drug dealing. 
Cassel Dixon Jr., 4, and his brother Anthony, 3, were very shy and had not given agents much information about their ordeal, said Jim Fox, assistant regional director of the FBI. 
"All they said was . . . a lady dropped them off from a cab," said Lt. Michael Murphy, a police officer at Kennedy International Airport. 
"We need help from the public," said Fox. "They may have been in the New York City area for weeks." 
The boys were produced at an FBI news conference so they could be photographed by the media. The boys were being flown back to Los Angeles on 
Wednesday,  said  FBI  
spokesman Joe Valiquette  
Fox said four armed  men  

kidnapped the boys and their 
mother, Beverly Dixon, 29, as they left a grocery store in Los Angeles on Aug. 17. 
The kidnappers issued a $50,000 ransom demand that was never paid, and Mrs. Dixon was released Sept. 4, Fox said. Mrs. Dixon told police she did not recognize her kidnappers. She told authorities the kidnappers manhandled her and twice struck her on the mouth. 
A Port Authority employee spotted the boys standing alone, holding hands, at a bus stop near a hangar at Kennedy around midnight. 
The boys had an envelope that bore the letters "FBI-LA" and contained their mother's phone number, Fox said. 
The envelope also contained a three-page note that "makes allegations this was a drug­related family and that the father was bringing people in from Jamaica and buying drugs in Mexico," said Murphy. 
Asked if the kidnapping could have been drug-related, Fox said: "We've heard a lot of rumors. We have no evidence to that effect." He also said there "is no indication of a custody dispute." 





...AND WE'LL 
·~CLEAN THE FLOORI
EXIT! Mishawaka Ave. 
., 
----------~--~ >
•< 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 

ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
CLIFF ERICKSON 


Come see ND's favorite perfonner 
I I I 
ALUMNI -::•:""':•=•==m~
-SENIOR WI 
i!:CLUB 


Dirty booksale 
Persons of the Notre Dame community came to Hesburgh Library to buy, rather than check-out,"dirty books." 
Birth defects given less attention 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Environmental Protection Agency told a Senate committee Wednesday that sterility risks and birth defects don't get the same consideration as cancer when the experts evaluate ex­posure to chemicals. 
"We have focused too much 
in the past on cancer," said EPA 
assistant administrator Linda 
Fisher. 
Dangers to fertility and the health of developing children should be given "equal stand­ing," she said. 
Fisher was part of a panel of officials who responded to a General Accounting Office re­port that said the government doesn't do enough to protect fetuses, sperms and other re­productive organs from chemi­cal hazards. 
Both the EPA and the Con­sumer Product Safety Commis­sion challenged the methods the GAO used to conclude that, in many cases, federal agencies wrongly assumed that if their regulations helped protect peo­ple from cancer risk, people also would be protected against risks to their reproductive or­gans. 
In testimony before the Sen­ate Governmental Affairs Committee, the safety commis­sion executive director, Eric Peterson, leveled the strongest objection. 
"The premises of the GAO re­port were wrong and therefore their conclusions were wrong," he said. 
When the commission discov­ers that products could have unhealthful side effects, the problems routinely are cor­rected at the source, without government bans or the issuing of special standards, Peterson said. 
THE UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER PRESENTS 
AN EVENING WITH 
JOHN BRADSHAW 
Author ofHOMECOMING and THE SHAME THAT BINDS YOU 
Host ofthe PBS SERIES, JOHN BRADSHAW ON THE FAMILY and on HOMECOMING 
AT WASHINGTON HALL OCTOBER 29, 1991 7-9 P.M. 
LIMITED SEATING TICKETS REQUIRED 
Tickets available (FREE) at LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE with ND/SMC ID 
STIJDENT TICKETS available beginning October 7, 1991 STAFF/FACULTY TICKETS available October 9, 1991 
One ticket per ID 
r 
l 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1991
t 
l Company sells out to BCCI Teen sex education 
ATLANTA (AP) -The state Saudi businessman helped BCCI the work. I I has approved the sale of a illegally enter the U.S. banking Young, in an interview \ Georgia insurance company by market. The government froze published in Wednesday's
i. reduces pregnancy 
a central figure in the BCCI his U.S. assets last month. editions of The Atlanta Journal­WASHINGTON (AP) -A new culture that promotes the
scandal -but the $30 million Vista Chairman J.B. Fuqua Constitution, attempted to
\ study shows that teen wonderfulness of sex," said
in proceeds will go straight to said the sale is to be closed clarify his relationship with the 
pregnancy can be reduced Heather Johnston Nicholson,
the federal government. Thursday. scandal-plagued bank. 
significantly with a program who wrote the report. "What
InterRedec has made an He previously said that a 
teaching girls about sexuality, Girls Inc. does is teach to work
Former Mayor Andrew arrangement with the company he headed -not 
helping them build through those messages." 
Young, meanwhile, government by which it can himself-helped BCCI meet assertiveness and motivating Of the girls 12-14 who
acknowledged personally doing withdraw funds to finance its leaders in various Third World them to avoid pregnancy. participated in a component ofbusiness once for the Bank of operations, Fuqua said. But he countries where Young had 
I 
the program designed to
Credit and Commerce said InterRedec must put up the contacts. 
A report by Girls Inc., a promote parent-daughter
International, and a Pakistani sprawling southern Georgia Young told the newspapers, 
leading youth organization, communication for the purposeformer employee of BCCI filed a estate on which its however, that he did some
I,. 
based its conclusions on a of delaying sexual activity, halfdiscrimination suit in Georgia. headquarters is located -an business on the bank's behalf in three-year study involving 750 were as likely to have sexualIn Washington, a Senate estate once owned by Nicaragua. 
girls ages 12-17 who intercourse for the first time as
subcommittee postponed a automobile magnate Henry "There's nothing I was doing 
participated in the educational girls who did not participate.
hearing on BCCL Ford -as collateral. that was a secret. People forget programs. Another program for girls 12­In an order filed late last "As we understand it, the that nobody thought of these as Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D­14 taught assertiveness skills,week, Georgia Insurance government will end up with bad people until about July of Colo., praised the effort, saying including "the ability to say andCommissioner Tim Ryles first mortgage on the whole this year," he said. 
"this is not just another 'Just mean 'no' while remaining
approved the sale of Atlanta­thing," Fuqua said. "The intent Young's Washington-based Say No' program." Rather, the popular with peers of bothbased American Southern is not to allow Pharaon to take consulting firm, Andrew Young skills taught in the program sexes." In this group also, theInsurance Co. Inc. to Vista any cash out of the country but Associates Inc., was retained by "can enable girls and young girls were half as likely to haveResources Inc. of Atlanta. to have enough cash to operate BCCI. The bank also made a women to get through their sexual intercourse for the firstAmerican Southern is owned their business on." loan to the firm and forgave an 
teen years without becoming time as girls who did not
by InterRedec · Inc., the Dooley Culbertson, president outstanding balance of pregnant." participate.
Richmond Hill-based holding and chief executive officer of $150,000 while Young was 
The study was conducted at A program for girls 15-17 iscompany for Saudi investor lnterRedec, did not return a running for governor of Georgia Girls Inc. affiliates in Dallas, designed to motivate girls toGhaith Pharaon's U.S. telephone call Wednesday. in 1990. 
Memphis, Omaha and avoid pregnancy by helping
investments. Fuqua said the government A Pakistani executive at First Wilmington, Del., where girls them to set educational andwill have no involvement in his American Bank of Georgia has 
are at a higher than average career goals and plan for aPharaon is accused by the company. filed a discr'imination suit 
risk of becoming pregnant. productive future, as well asfederal government of being a Young acknowledged he contending he was demoted and "If you look at the magazine make responsible decisionsfront man for BCCI's alleged conducted business for BCCI pressured to quit to avoid the ads or at television, we are a about sex and contraception. 
illegal activities in the United while he was mayor of Atlanta, appearance that the bank was States. Authorities say the but insisted he was not paid for controlled by foreigners. 
Flower Deliver~ 7· Days BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -withdraw from Europe all nu­ncnt to a minimum, but does 6 ~ ~ .H. ~ ttt. 
NATO cuts nuclear plane bombs 
NATO will go beyond President clear artillery shells and nu­~hoe~~lan to eliminate all of r@~ oJ y r-p .,Bush's plans.to scrap ground­clear warheads for short-range based tactical nuclear weapons missiles. He said a nuclear deterrent is Super Saver Prices on Roses 
in Europe by also calling for still needed "in order to prevent Balloon Bouquets .,_ Stuffing, Pia-.&-, 
sharp cuts in nuclear bombs With the elimination of those any kind of use of force or war ex nu. carried by planes, a senior al­weapons, analysts say NATO's -be it nuclear or conven-Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
liance official said Wednesday. nuclear stockpile in Europe The official, speaking on would consist almost entirely of ti~~i~e scrapping ground-C51o14ck00ttw31•..~.re (219\ 277•1291 
condition of anonymity, said bombs that are dropped from based tactical nuclear weapons, nvn 'I plans to reduce gravity bombs warplanes. 
hes~d~~e~~dconti~e~=~~~~~~~~~~~N~4~6!~~7~~ft~I~I~I~A~~~~~W~·~~~~-~~~~~·~
would be unveiled at a Novem­to rely on air-based weapons. r ber summit of the 16-nation NATO Secretary-General North Atlantic Treaty Organi­Manfred Woerner said in an in­But the senior official said the zation. terview that the Europe-ori­number of such plane-launched 
Bush announced last week ented alliance hopes to reduce missiles or bombs would also be that the United States would nuclear weapons on the conti-sharply reduced. 
MANDY PATINKIN 
IN CONCERT: DRESS CASUAL 
WVFI Presents: The Connels 



with special guest Seven Simons 
October 1J ®, Thursday night Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend
at Theodore's ®s®®[pcruu 
October 4-5 
Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. &8p.m.
(doors open at 8:30) 

Special Student Offer 2 tickets for the price of 1
ND/SMC ID required for entry 
2 for $15.50 -Matinee Only 
®® ~~~[[!)®@ crwanGu ~®O@[ffl@ D®D BOX OFFICE OPEN 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and until curtain on show days. 
®® ~®@[? 

PHONE (219) 284-9190 
tickets on Sale NOW! 
MasterCard & VISA Group, Student, & Accepted Senior Citizen Discounts 
at LaFortune Information Desk A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

--------,-, 

Thursday, October 3, 1991 page 7 
Business 
IBM and Apple reveal historic technology alliance 
NEW YORK (AP) -Apple and IBM disclosed details Wednes­day of their historic technology­sharing alliance, designed to create a new standard for desktop computers and let software be interchanged be­tween the two leading brands. 
The accord startled the com­puter industry when first an­nounced three months ago, be­cause Apple Computer Inc. and International Business Ma­chines Corp. have competed bit­terly in the increasingly cut­throat personal computer in­dustry. 
But on Wednesday, executives of the two companies patted each other's backs and joked at a San Francisco news confer­ence, broadcast to New York and other cities via satellite. 
Under the agreements signed Wednesday, the two largest personal computer makers will cooperate in five areas of com­puter technology. 
The agreements are aimed at letting Apple's popular Macin­tosh computers be more easily connected to IBM models, and providing computer chips and software for next-generation desktop computers. 
The agreements "will launch a renaissance in technical inno­vation," said John Sculley, Ap­ple's chairman and chief execu­tive officer. "The (personal computer) heydays of the early 1980s will seem tame by com­parison." 
"With this alliance we believe we have the elements of truly a new era," said IBM President Jack Kuehler. 
Industry analysts agreed the alliance was a milestone, but some questioned whether the two companies would be able to execute all their plans. The in­dustry has a history of grand alliances that haven't always worked. 

"Business school texts will be written about it. Succeed or fail, it's a historic agreement," said Richard Shaffer, editor and publisher of the industry newsletter ComputerLetter. 
Apple and IBM will establish two joint-venture companies they will own equally. 
One, called Taligent, will write new operating system software, which controls a computer's internal functions. The software will be based on a new technology called "object orientation," which makes pro­gramming computers easier by allowing programmers to reuse chunks of software code from one program to the next. 
The other joint venture, called Kaleida, will develop technolo­gies for multimedia computers, which mix text, sound and ani­mation. 
Neither company would dis­close their investments in the two ventures. Each will employ several hundred people and be based in California, Apple's home state. 
In addition, Apple and IBM, together with Motorola Inc., will miniaturize IBM's micro­processor used in its computer workstations, which are power­ful desktop machines that re­semble personal computers. 
This microprocessor, based on an advanced technology called Reduced Instruction Set Computing, or RISC, would be used in future Apple and IBM models. Microprocessors serve as the "brains" of desktop computers. 
IBM and Apple also will pro­duce new operating system software that will work on both companies' workstations. 
Also as part of the agree­ments, Apple and IBM have li­censed various technologies to each other. 
Analysts say Apple and IBM entered the alliance partly be­cause of plunging profit mar­gins in the PC market, flooded by low-cost "clone" models and hurt by the recession. 
For IBM, the agreement should lessen its reliance on computer software giant Mi­crosoft Corp., which makes the operating system software used on almost all IBM PCs. IBM and Microsoft had a falling out earlier this year after the two disagreed on the replacement for this operating system, called DOS. 
For Apple, the pact should boost its sales to major corpo­rations, which have been reluc­tant to buy machines that can't easily be linked to IBM-type computers. IBM PCs and "clone" models dominate the PC industry. 

Senate approves family leave bill; President Bush threatens to veto 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The braska and Tom Harkin of publican whips began a head Senate approved Wednesday a Iowa. A third missing Demo­count even before the Senate bill guaranteeing many workers crat, Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., action. 12 weeks of unpaid leave in was also counted as a supporter "We anticipate we will be able family emergencies, with sup­of the measure, meaning to sustain the president's veto," porters demonstrating they may supporters could have 68 votes, said Tony Blankley, spokesman have been able to override more than a two-thirds major­for the House Republican Whip, President Bush's threatened ity. Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia. veto. Once Bond's version was ac­Supporters hoped a wide Se­
The vote sent the Family and cepted, the Senate approved the nate margin this time would Medical Leave bill to the House, bill on a voice vote. encourage House action. Last the next stage in one of the Democratic backers had em­year the House sustained Bush's most contentious domestic braced Bond's version in· hopes veto by 54 votes and the veto battles of the year. The action of attracting the support of was never tested in the Senate, sets up a possible repeat of last other moderate Republicans. which had approved the .·.•~ year's confrontation with the Business lobbyists who have measure on a voice vote. White House, when Bush vetoed opposed the measure said they the measure and the House were not discouraged, however, The Family and Medical Leave sustained it. and believed they could per­Act would require many em­
The key vote was 65 to 32 to suade at least two of the Re­ployers to give workers up to 12 accept a compromise version publicans who voted for Bond's weeks of unpaid leave for the sponsored by Republican Sen. version to vote to sustain a veto worker's illness, to care for a Christopher Bond of Missouri, if necessary. sick family member or to take and others. care of a newborn or an 
With three Democrats absent, Bush had sought to discour­adopted child. the total suggested supporters age Senate approval with a let­likely would be able to attain ter to the Senate Republican Supporters said the leave the two-thirds majority needed leader, Bob Dole, calling the should be a minimum work to override President Bush's measure "inappropriate and standard in the modern work­threatened veto, if there are no counterproductive" and vowing place, where two incomes are a defections. that, if passed, "I will veto it." necessity for many families, and 
The absent included two lib­described the bill as a way to 
The Senate approved a bill guaranteeing 12 weeks of unpaid leave in 
eral Democratic presidential Opponents were already fo­protect poor and middle-income 
family emergencies. Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole(left) called 
hopefuls, Bob Kerrey of Ne-cusing on the House, where Re-families. 
the measure inappropriate and counterproductive. 
. 
.

Book alleges Milken committed more crimes .
-

NEW YORK (AP) -Michael editor at the newspaper, shared Siegel and others, including Milken traded on inside infor­a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 for his how Siegel received an anony­mation, hogged hicrative in­coverage of the scandals and mous call from an apparent vestments for himself and his the stock market crash. "blackmailer" believed to be a family, and was a ruthless "Mr. Milken's crimes alone prosecutor. leader at Drexel Burnham were massive: systematically The excerpt portrays Milken Lambert Inc., a book on the robbing clients by trading on as so obsessive about work that 1980s Wall Street scandals al­their confidential information he once keeled over at his desk leges. for his own gain, manipulating and so greedy that in 1986 he 
The book, "Den of Thieves" by securities prices to force deals kept for himself nearly 80 James Stewart, describes on which he could make huge percent of $700 million that details it says go well beyond fees, gouging unsuspecting Drexel gave his junk-bond divi­the criminal guilty pleas clients on junk-bond trade.s," sion to pay employees. reached by Milken, former Stewart writes. The book also alleges that: speculator Ivan Boesky and Milken last year pleaded •Milken repaid Boesky for others implicated in widespread guilty to six trading-related more than $10 million in trad­financial wrongdoing. felonies and is serving a 10-ing losses via a scheme in 
A lawyer for Milken, Alan year prison term. Boesky was which clients paid inflated Dershowitz, denied that Milken one of the first to cooperate prices for junk bonds. engaged in insider trading. He with the government and his in­Dershowitz said the said the book revives allega­formation led prosecutors to government concluded it did tions the government failed to Milken. He paid $100 million in not have enough evidence to prove. penalties and served about two pursue the charge. 
'"Den of Thieves' is a pack of years in prison. •Milken created more than 40 lies," Dershowitz said. He said The book asserts Milken had accounts for himself, his wife, the book relies on Boesky's ver­decided to plead guilty to two children and other relatives in sion of events and ignores felonies in the spring of 1989 -500 investment partnerships in statements by Milken's sentenc­a year before he actually did -which employees shared profits. ing judge and prosecutors about but missed a deadline set by Milken concealed details from his behavior. prosecutors by one hour. other employees, who were 
An excerpt from the book was It also presents details about shocked to learn how much published Wednesday in The Boesky's illegal relationship Milken set aside for himself, the Wall Street Journal. Stewart. an with investment banker Martin book claims. 
AP File Photo A new book, "Den of Thieves", by James Stewart alleges Michael Milken's (right with wife Lori) criminal activities go far beyond his recent guilty pleas. 
The Observer 
Thu October 3, 1991 


' 
j 
! t 
I
)
., 
l 
I 
..~--------------------~........................................------~-------------..-~------------------------------------------------------­


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ..•..........•.....•... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •....... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..............• David Dieteman Production Manager •.•••....... Jay Colucci Accent Editor ....•.......•....... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......•.... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor....•...•.•. Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 page 9 

...---THE .MAGNIFICENT EMPTINEG5 OF THE GRAND CANYON---.. 
Huddle is snubbing Education should be NO priority 
Dear Editor: institution that the quality of the members of the classes of Numerous times over the past students' education be the 1992-1995 to make its projects
environmentalists 
three years, I have been foremost priority-not possible.) tempted to write this letter, but research, not expansion, and I am not blaming Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: are still getting a break on the it is the article on "America's not athletics. for not being a "Harvard," but if
Remember those cute re­price" you think. No! En­
fillable cups that were sold in vironmentalists get charged as Best Colleges" in the September This requires sincere the school wants to suggest that the Huddle last year? You much as polluters for the same 30 issue of the U.S. News and dedication, including a it can "run with the big boys," know, the ones that allowed you size drink. World Report that has finally thorough selection of small then it has a lot of growing up to get a fair price on a cup of So, the environmentalists are prompted me to do so. classes taught by the out­to do. This growth means im­coffee or soda and feel good actually being penalized for As a senior at Notre Dame, I standing members of the provement and not necessarilyabout not polluting the envi­being conscientious. Leave it to was rather discouraged to say university's faculty, as well as a expansion. It means re­
ronment at the same time? the Huddle's management to 
the least by the school's financial aid commitment to prioritizing and not necessarilyWell, the Huddle's manage­find a way to overcharge me for absence from the "Top 25" list. students and their families that re-orientation. Notre Dame ment does. That's why they're feeling good. Maybe I'm being I think I have allowed myself to will make college education an must begin to demonstrate thatnot there anymore. an old lady about this, but it become disillusioned by Notre option rather than a sacrifice. it is committed whole-heartedly Sure, they still sell refillable irritates me when monopolies Dame's affection for suggesting to the education of its students,cups; they come in tea cup or rip me off. 
that it is of the same academic However, as Notre Dame is for without them the school
gargantuan size. "Surely those Carolyn Edwards environmentalists who lug Off-campus calibre as the Ivy League surging light years ahead in its literally has no purpose. those things through campus Sept. 30, 1991 schools. The unfortunate reality planning for research orienta­Ultimately, perspective is that Notre Dame's ranking tion, new buildings, and football students and donors alike must fell significantly short of those coverage, it is leaving its stu­be able to see this dedication schools (and of many state dents behind. I often wonder reflected in the national schools as well). whether the school's true com­ranking of the school and be If Notre Dame has any interest mitment is to the current convinced that Notre Dame is in living up to the reputation it student body or to the longevity worthy of the distinction it has built for itself and its stu­of the university and the boasts. dents and in improving its na­wealthy donors upon whom it tional standing, it must reassess depends. (Maybe the university Christine Labaree its priorities. It would seem only has forgotten that decades from Lyons Hall logical that in an academic now, it will be dependent upon Sept. 30, 1991 
Columnist gave faulty account of Notre Dame homosexual community 
Dear Editor: substantial amount of time re­those involved in GLND are HQ 76.5 or around the "Woman It should be noted, however, 
I rejoice that you continue to searching the so-called post­habitues of said environs. at the Well" sculpture in front of that such vehemence on Mr. publish timely pieces containing orgasmic and graffitic condi­O'Shag. Peralez' part, coupled with his opinions generated to deal with tions of the library basement Rather, it is those who have pseudo-prurient reportage of current campus issues. If only restroom have been somewhat yet to confront themselves with Both are symbolically signifi­the gay scene both locally and your archivists were as diligent updated and augmented. their true sexuality ( or those cant, in that the books in this in San Antonio would indicate as mine, however, they would just simply exploring) who section of the library indicate some grave matter sorely in have immediately spotted Mr. He unfortunately failed to no­choose the furtive glances and the need for greater education need of discussion with his Peralez' re-cycled "Ode to the tice that last year's sketches of occasional gropes afforded be­within the University commu­confessor or his analyst. Solitary Masturbator" from an sodomy have been supplanted low. And it is on their behalf nity and this work of art daily As Hamlet's Queen retorted: issue of that apparently now by oral sex in light of a suc­that we do what we do! interpellates apparently main­"The lady doth protest too defunct neo-fascist student or­cessful "safe sex" campaign stream attitudes espoused by much, methinks. "(III.ii.230) gan, The Student Weekly, which waged on this campus. And Be it known that we who have Mr. Peralez and other Pharisees appeared on October 19, 1990. had he been a little more chosen to let the truth set us who lack his intestinal fortitude Craig B. McKee 
His year-old accounts, the branche this year, he would free, also choose to cruise ei­to speak their minds openly and Hesburgh Library prosaic product of an evidently have also learned that none of ther in. the general vicinity of loudly. Sept. 23, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
THAT5 R/6lfT. ITliUV1Be IAV6 8eFCf?e >W'~ Be 
aJOI,(f,,,
5FFAJ<IN(j 70 ()'3/N ~ PAT/(f)VIZ/N6 ~I PICI<.­

'Adults are 
/NG UPAFTlil< I.E, \ ANI?a:PN6PJITH obsolete children, 
()Jf?.~. 

and the hell with them.' 
Dr. Seuss (1904-1991) 

Don't have a fit, just submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556
9-14 
Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, October 3, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Domer Hater's' generalizations were unwarranted 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in re­sponse to Steve Hurst, an IU student whose article from the Indiana Student Daily appeared in The Observer on Wednesday, Sept. 25, 1991. 
Although I am very much aware that outside of the Notre Dame campus, people either love us or hate us, , I feel that his generalizations and stereotypes of our student body as a whole are unfair. I certainly will not follow his example and assume that all IU students are close-minded. 
I also do not intend to rip apart IU or its student body, but, rather, would like to give an insider's defense of Mr. Hurst's stereotypes. I should first point out that in many ways I am not the "typical Domer." None of my family is alumni and I do not come from the upper middle class. Through scholarships and loans (and a lot of work) I am paying my own way through Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame certainly has its shortcomings and there are many areas that need much im­provement (as most universities do). During tough times it is easy to get aggravated with the systems at ND. It is at these times that I often ask myself "Is Notre Dame really worth it?" 
Maybe my answers will help Steve Hurst and any other "Domer Haters" resolve their jealousy and hatred of the sup­posed aura that is hanging over 
ND alumni and students. 
I specifically want to address Mr. Hurst' s statements that students accepted at Notre Dame are "the children of rich, high powered people. .whether or not they get straight A' s" and how, once a academic abilities and talents, but most students come to Notre Dame with tremendous high school achievements in sports, student government, music, theatre, and community and faith services. Those who don't have "straight A's" usually have something very special that makes up for it (this does this "type" of person, but I think that most visitors to the campus can't deny that there really is "something special about Notre Dame," and I think that the stu­dents have everything to do with it. 

Of course, I can't say that this applies to every single student at Notre Dame, just as Mr. 

student at Notre Dame, "one magically has a powerful tool in pursuit of moneymaking: CONNECTIONS." I admit that I have met some students at ND who come from "high-powered" backgrounds, at least compared to the small town where I grew up, but never have these people walked around with signs advertising who they are. Most often I am struck by their dynamic personalities and other qualities and don't realize "who they are" until later. 
My freshman year I was in awe of the accomplishments of my classmates. Not only are there students with great not imply money and con­nections, as Mr. Hurst appears to believe). 

From working with Freshman Orientation and meeting the new incoming students, I know that every year our Admissions office does a fantastic job of selecting students from a huge applicant pool. Before most students come to Notre Dame they have already established themselves as natural leaders and have already proved themselves as achievers through their accomplishments. 
I am not suggesting that Notre Dame is the only place to find Hurst cannot apply his views to every student. He mentions our "arrogance," and I can only as­sume that he bases this on meeting someone from ND who was arrogant. Are there not also arrogant students at IU? I don't doubt that arrogant people exist everywhere. 
Mr. Hurst also scoffs at us for being able to "write [our] own ticket" and find CONNECTIONS because of a Notre Dame degree. Any truth to this statement can be justified if an employer is aware of the quality people who are students at Notre Dame. If employers have similar experiences and respect for the type of student that attends and graduates from Notre Dame that I feel towards my peers, then they most likely will have confidence in employing aND graduate. 
Of course, I would like to point out to Mr. Hurst that a Notre Dame degree can also be a deathwish if you travel to areas that carry Mr. Hurst's "Domer Hater" views. {i.e. I don't plan on landing a job in Miami and rumor has it that universities such as Stanford are a bit prejudiced against admitting ND students to its graduate programs). 
Finally, I don't disagree with Mr. Hurst's criticism of NBC's biased sports coverage, and from talk on campus think its safe to say that most students here at ND are embarrassed by it. Although it can be of no con­solation to Mr. Hurst or the IU football team, I, at least, am grateful that the University is using the money from the contract fot improvement in a much needed area: financial aid. 
In this way I hope that more students, like myself, who don't come from a strong economic background, will be able to find out for themselves what is so special about Notre Dame. 
Nadine Duhan Knott Hall 
Sept. 29, 1991 

Gap between Mexico and the United States is closing 
Dear Editor: 
In the wake of the undisputed political and military supremacy of the United States, the future of Latin America, like that of the world, is one of massive opportunities. Com­munism has been discredited with the collapse of the Soviet empire and the Soviet people 
famine and chaos that until now only visited the Third World. 
Indeed, except perhaps in Harvard Square and in the African National Congress, Communism has accrued the same ignominy as Nazism. With Communism no longer a tempting ideology, Latin Amer­ica will come closer to realizing its aspirations of joining the ranks of the First World. 
As President Carlos Salinas toured the United States early this year, it became clear that there is rising hope in Mexico for that country to become Latin America's citadel of free enterprise. Indeed, Mexico has the historical legitimacy and right to be the standard bearer for the rest of Latin America. 
Its immediate proximity to the world's only superpower and its population of 83 million, growing like crazy and hungry for power, clearly earmarks Mexico as the anchor of an American free trade market which our great President Bush envisages will stretch from "Anchorage to Tierra del Fuego." 
The presidential leadership of George Bush signals a profound transformation in the U.S.­Mexico relationship. President Bush has realized that the link between political chaos and traditional culture within Mexican society-the notion of the "banana republic"--can scarcely be accepted any longer by the United States. 

That this stance has inevitably worked to reinforce the left-wing and, especially, the communist groups in Latin countries, who recruit their followers with anti-United States slogans. should hardly 
In the next several years, the integration of this continent's rich and poor will be as dra­matic a transformation as that which has visited post-Cold War Europe. Mexican President Salinas has unilaterally liberalized the Mexican econ­omy, preparing his country for a trade pact with the United States and making Mexico even more attractive and accessible to U.S. and foreign capital in­vestment. 
Mexican Americans are encouraged by the changes in the patrimonial country and realize how indispensable the statesmanship of George Bush has been in transforming the outlook of a nation long suffer­ing from socialism. 

The Mexico that will emerge over the next several years will be one capable of competing for investment capital. U.S. foreign policy towards Mexico has assumed a new significance. Gone from any serious 
plunged into catastrophic polit­ical or economical turmoil. Presently, drug interdiction and immigration control are signif­icant considerations with Mex­ico and much of Hispanic America. 
Debt is also a serious concern. But as Latin economies improve, debts become easier to manage. And alternative employment will be available for those presently employed in the drug industry. Further, improved economic op­portunities in Mexico will greatly reduce illegal immigra­tion to the United States. 
Salinas' liberalization of the Mexican economy will pave the way for substantial political re­form in the next several years. In the United States, social democrats and big labor, the most vocal and intractable of free trade opponents, have criticized the Mexican president for introducing his brand of perestroika without glasnost; 
Salinas is a smart man and he is also a Mexican. 
The problems that presently beset President Gorbachev, who, in typical Soviet style at­tempted to do too much, too fast, have given pause to any attempt by Salinas to introduce radical political reform. Mexi­can Americans tire of hearing the patronizing and self-righ­teous cant of environmentalists, union leaders, left-leaning academics and denizens of think tanks who mistake their theoretical abstractions and dreamy aspirations for a reality of Mexican people determined to make its own way in the world. 
For my part, my home state of Texas has hired Germans to build a multi-million dollar bullet train, the first of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, to link our state's metropolitan centers. As the Mexican free trade pact begins to bear its fruits, links will be extended to cities in Mexico, transforming the Southwest into a vital source of our nation's economic strength. 
My fellow Texan George Bush will be remembered by Ameri­cans as a President who se­cured for his country's future a maintained economic preemi­nence in the world. And he has earned a special place in the heart and history of the Mexi­can people. 
The Canada-United States­Mexico trade pact will assure this nation's competitiveness as Europe and Japan expand the scope of their economic activity. But more significant is the closing of the yawning political and cultural gap between Mexico and the United States. 
To be sure, the new relation­ship will have its challenges. There are lingering resent­ments that span more than a century between Anglo and Hispanic peoples. But it is only a matter of years before all nations in North America real­ize that their fortunes are inex­tricably linked. And the liberal nay-sayers and protesters who have attempted to thwart Pres-, ident Bush's efforts will learn · that his efforts will have done more to secure a better life for more people than any of the nostrums hatched in their ivory towers. 
Paul Peralez Dillon Hall 
Sept. 30, 1991 

Accent 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 page 11 

Observer photos/Sean Farnan (Left to right) Tom McDonald, Ron Fanelli, Dave Olkowski, and Jim Slover participate in LEAD USA's War-Game simulation. 
• 

By MELISSA COMER Germany is staged as a nation about the future of defense and According to Yaskulka, the Accent Writer with a strictly nonviolent Civilian­peace in their world. purpose of this model is to inspire Based Defense (CBD}. The CBD As Fuller puts it, ''Just because a and to challenge students "to There's a war going on out there provides War-Game simulators student is in ROTC does not mean identify the most compelling and -a war for peace. with the challenge of establishing a he/she is against peace. In fact, it's challenging topics they can 
Its a war for peaceful and defense based on sanctions and a quite the opposite. There is no one imagine -topics that are likely to nonviolent alternatives to the technique of struggle that attempts who is not in favor of peace." inspire the high degree of I traditional war that coordinates all to wield adequate power without Yaskulka's week of seminars has commitment required for such people in an effort to explore violence. The German objective, been co-sponsored by the courses, and that are not offered l creative solutions to global therefore, is to raise the cost and Government Department, elsewhere in the curriculum." problems. lower the benefit of invasion until Economics Department, Center for '1 
I

At the helm in this war is the Soviets inevitably return home. Social Concerns, Army ROTC, Navy The students then develop a 
I 

Leadership Education And The victor? ROTC, Air Force ROTC, Joan Kroc syllabus and find faculty advisors 

David Yaskulka, co-founder and Executive Director of LEAD USA, promotes "students teaching students" program. 
Development USA (LEAD), a non­profit organization concerned with the development of tomorrow's leaders. The co-founder and Executive Director of LEAD, David Yaskulka, visits the Notre Dame campus this week to foster the work of his organization and to gather students interested in LEAD's programs. 
As part of his week's events, Yaskulka led a group of ND students Tuesday night in simulating a war between the Soviet Union and Germany. 
Staged in the year 2001, the War-Game stimulated discussion of­both violent and nonviolent means of war. 
In the War-Game, the Soviet Union is the invader, struggling with a weak economy and a plethora of domestic problems. A war with Germany seems the perfect opportunity for the Soviets to boost their economy, to shift the national focus from domestic concerns, and to unite the people against a historical adversary. 
That depends on which side is the most creative in their tactics. But ultimately, all participants are the victors. 
The War-Game achieves its purpose "to develop leadership, strategic thinking and imagination in the participants," according to Yaskulka. 
The game is intended to bring together both ROTC and peace studies students. The two traditionally diametrically opposed groups are challenged to find common solutions to global problems. 
A peace studies student_ in the Navy ROTC program, Steve Fuller, believes, "It's important to have peace studies and ROTC work to­gether. In that process, creative ideas for solving global problems emerge." 
A number of the students who attended the seminar Tuesday are in the ROTC programs. They came, however. not representing ROTC as a whole, but as students concerned Institute for International Peace Studies, Amnesty International, Pax Christi ND, and the War, Peace, and Ethics Forum. 

The sponsorship of these organizations, particularly the ROTC groups, suggests a growing concern with the exploration of alternatives to violence. 
"Cadets and midshipmen are. well served by critically examining a wide range of alternatives in intense conflict situations," said Yaskulka. 
The War-Game, however, is but one element of Yaskulka's broader purpose this week. 
LEAD USA is primarily con­cerned with an alternative mode of education, that of "students teaching students." 
Lead has brought the model of "students teaching students" to over 75 universities nation-wide, including such universities as Stanford, Princeton, and the U.S. Air Force Academy. 
to supervise their endeavors. The faculty advisors do not actually enter the classroom but rather assist the students outside the classroom. 
A faculty advisor involved and interested in the program, Kathleen Maas Weigert, has been an integral force in fostering Yaskulka's work on campus. 
Currently, students in Amnesty International in conjunction with the War, Peace, and Ethics Forum are creating a student-run course in Ethics for next semester. Yaskulka has found a number of other students also interested in creating their own course. 
According to Yaskulka, "One of the most exciting aspects of 'students teaching students' is the opportunity to design how you will learn in addition to what you will learn." 
Yaskulka will lead a "students teaching students" workshop tonight in the CSC Coffeehouse from 4:30 until 5:30 p.m. 
Accent

page 12 Thursday, October 3, 1991 

Francis "Frank" .O'Malley. 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Accent Editor 
Notre Dame is a place known for its legends. Rockne. The Gipper. The Four Horsemen. 
This weekend, over 200 people from across the country will gather on campus to celebrate the memory of one of Notre Dame's greatest legends. This legend. though, n~ver scored a touchdown. He never won a Heisman and never coached a game. 
The name of this legend was Francis "Frank" O'Malley, and he carved out his niche in Notre Dame history in the classroom-not on the gridiron. To some of his colleagues and students, though, he is a true symbol of what Notre Dame repre­sents. 
Frank O'Malley was a 1934 graduate of Notre Dame. He joined the English faculty here at the age of 24 in 1936. He taught until his death in 1974, teaching "Philosophy of Literature," "Modern Catholic Writer," (a class he created) and the honors section of "Freshman Rhetoric and Composition." 
He was the last of the 

"Through this conference we're saying that what we're proud of at Notre Dame is great teaching, a genuine sense of community and a great sense of reverence," Houck said. O'Malley embodied these three ideas, Houck said. 
The conference will feature panel discussions by his former students and colleagues, as well as reflection and discussion periods. 
Speakers will include, Kenneth Woodward, '57, senior editor for Newsweek, John Elson, '53, senior editor for Time magazine, several of O'Malley's students who are now professors, as well as John Meaney, '40, author of "O'Malley of Notre Dame," a recently released biography. 
A mass at Sacred Heart Church and a prayer service at O'Malley's grave in the Holy Cross community cemetery on Saint Mary's Road will also be held. 
Those who have never heard of O'Malley might pose the same question as Sullivan did: "How can one man have that much effect on people that 200 of them would gather to honor him?" she asked. 
The answer to that question can be found in the words of his admirers. He has been called "Notre Dame's greatest teacher of the humanities," "fascinating" and "genuinely devoted." 
"He had a magical personality not to be compared with any other teacher I've known as a student or a colleague," said James Walton, associate professor of English, who not only is a former student of O'Malley but also a former colleague in the English department. 
"His magic was not a local phenomenon," Walton added, saying that many of O'Malley's students in the 1940s and '50s won prestigious Danforth and Wilson fellowships. 
Houck also spoke of O'Malley's ability to produce large numbers of scholars. "O'Malley and his associates tried to build a line of vision that would be worthy of intelligent. sensitive young people." Houck said. 
O'Malley's reputation in the classroom preceded him. "You knew you were going to be in the presence of someone who had struggled with the problems of life and scholarship," Houck said. 
In class, "nothing but first class reading, thinking and probing would be allowed," he added. 
Despite his popularity, O'Malley shouldn't be compared to professors like "Mr. Chips" or the Robin Williams character in "Dead Poets Society," said Michael Garvey, assistant director of ND Public Relations and Information and a student of O"Malley in 1972.. 
"He was much more complicated than that-he was more rough edged," Garvey said. 
When he died in May of 197 4, he left a room in Lyons Hall filled with the things he loved the most: books. Woodward described O'Malley's living quarters in a 1984 Notre Dame Magazine article: 
"His room in a succession of residence halls was always a mess. Books grew in stacks like stalagmites from every surface: desk, chairs, floor. even the bed, giving rise to student rumors that 'the Master never sleeps."' Woodward wrote. 
"The Master" thought fine lit­
erature was much like 
"bachelor dons," a group of unmarried lay faculty who lived among students in the dormitories. His lectures reportedly received standing ovations from students on several occasions and he was known to meet with students at local watering holes. 
He had such an effect on the young men he lived with and taught that the Alumni Association is sponsoring the "O'Malley Conference" this weekend, Oct. 4 to 6 to honor him. 
"It's the Sesquicentennial Year and we thought it would be an opportunity for the University to celebrate its tradition of greatness in undergraduate teaching," said Kathleen Sullivan, director of · continuing education for the Alumni Association. 
"What better way to do that than to honor one of the greatest teachers in the history of Notre Dame?" she added. 
The idea of a conference to honor O'Malley has been four years in the making, according to John Houck, professor of management and a student of O'Malley in 1952. 


To Frank O'Malley by Ernest Sandeen 
What have you done?· You lie so still 
you strain·. b.•e_lief in our mo.. rtality.. 
We can't believe the body of your . ghost, . · lithe and fleet, has now been exorcised~ "t;;.}~.·.·· · 
Our scholar gypsy, you haunted the conscience 
of all our paths and corridors, 
you sharpened with light the shadow that was cast on what we yearned for in dome and spire. 
You christened writers of· indiscreetly 
visionary words, the baptized 
and unbaptized alike, while awed 
multitudes of the young looked on. 
You gospelled four decades of rich and poor men's sons showing them where the soul is. And each day you knotted them thongs to whip the money changers from the temple door. 
When did you first surmise that yours must be the gift of 
loneliness? When did you discover that he who is loved by all is loved by no 
one?---::~<::}*):--:.-:.:~: 
. --. :.-··:_:::,.:_::y;~}}:::}~~y:·_._::•: -.. · 
Foreknowing~·tas you did, such 
cost of spirit . ··· · how did you decide? Or did you? How can a man, a mere man. decide to make nothing but himself his own. 
There were days we scarcely 
could endure the fury of that indifferent love that smiled or glowered in your 
eyes. 

Forgive us if we found it hard to quite forgive in you your relentless understanding ofyourself. 
But we salute you now as then with love, across no greater 
distance than you always kept, immaculate and warm, between yourself and 
us. 

prayer. said Garvey. 
"He really looked upon the words of fine literature as fairly indistinguishable from the Word of God." Garvey said. "And that came across in his teaching." 
Even in death. O'Malley is a part of Notre Dame. His wake was held in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
and  he  is  buried  on  
campus.  
In  the  Great  Hall  of  

O'Shaughnessy, there is now a plaque with a poem about O'Malley. The poem, titled "To Frank O'Malley," was written by Ernest E. Sandeen, professor emeritus and a former col­league of O'Malley. 
Sullivan recalled her days as a Phd. candidate in Notre Dame's English department. "Every night as I would be leaving O'Shaughnessy, I would read that poem." 
"It became a· ritual for me," she added. 
It is clear the O'Malley became a ritual for many. In the words of Woodward, "Of all the legendary figures of Notre Dame, none captured the spirit of the place like Professor Frank O'Malley." 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
HOT HOT HOT HOT 
···DooRs··· 
Several copies available 
Basement of LaFortune 4:00-11:00 p.m. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
ROSES FLOWERS 
Hey, there are a lot of dances this weekend. Hurry and get your roses. 
-IRISH GARDENs-
Basement of LaFortune. 
USED BOOKS CHEAP I!!! I!!!!! 25% off list price 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books corner of NO ave & Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Right to Life 
Weekly Picket at Crisis Pregnancy Center every Friday. Meet at 9am-Library circle. 
ND VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES. $10. NOW TAKING ORDERS. BETTY 239­7458 OR 289-1321 
COMIC BOOK SHOW 
Saturday, Oct. 19th 10am-5pm. 
Z.B. Falcons Hall Sheridan at Western. 
Take bus to downtown, transfer to Western Ave. bus. Lots of collectibles, door prizes every hour. Admission $1. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST Saph1re Braclet Reward if found Call Heather 277-5280 
LOST!!!!!!!!!!!! 
i lost my i.d., detex, etc. at STAR WARS friday night 
(10:30 show) Pleeeze call lisa right away 
VERY IMPORTANT! X4862 
FOUND: GRAY WALLET IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. CALL STELIUS AT 277-8827 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST OR STOLEN 
LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading "D TROll" missing since 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off somewhere between Kaplan Educational Center (next to Turtle Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's cute. but it will cost a bundle to replace so PLEASE return if you have it and no questions will be asked!! If you have the plate or info, call 4911. Generous reward 
· offered. 
LOST-J-Crew Barn Jacket Olive Green. Lost Thursday September, 19. Call Mike X2095 
LOST!!!!!!! 
at Steppan fields or tennis courts on Sunday, Sept. 29, gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that have lots of sentimental value. If found, please call x2867 
$$$$REWARD$$$$$ 
LOST!!!!! A blue Notre Dame jacket with teal and white stripes on the sleeve. Yeah, the kind you can BUY at the bookstore! If whoever took this jacket from South Dining Hall on Tuesday, Oct. 1 could call X4000, and offer to return it, it would be greatly appreciated. 
[ WANTED 
Need ride to UVa/vicinity for break­Will help gas,tolls. Sheri x2191 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON FALL BREAK. WILL PAY$$. BILL x1721. 
Wanted Drummer (with set) 
Call Rob 271-0104 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA 
Now hiring drivers 10-40 hrs. per 
wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible 
schedules & perks. Call today 271­
1177. 
FAST, PROFESSIONAL WORD PROCESSING $1.00 DOUBLE SPACED PAGE BEFORE 4-239­2174 AFTER 5-277-6304/683-5290 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS to students or student organizations promoting our Spring Break Packages. Good Pay and Fun. Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. 
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling 
Spring Break Packages to 
Bahamas. Mexico, Jamaica, 
Florida! Best Trips and Prices! 
Spring Break Travel 1-800-638­
6786. 
**PITT TIX** 
I need 5 
Also Need 1 USC 
x4421 
Wanted: Teacher for begin­
ning classical guitar. Call 
John at 232-8065. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill 
T-Shirts. Sweatshirts. closeout. T­
Shirts $7. Sweatshirts. $12. Phone 
Game Day Promotions 291 -6394. 
OVER 40%0FF 
Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP! -Over Thanksgiving to see the ND football game in Honolulu. Call x3457 for info. 
SEGA GENESIS & GAMES BST 
OFR X4070 
plane t1x anywhere in U.S. cheap­
call Mike B. 234-1048 
COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr, 
$700/l)st John@271-9239 
Apl //gs Supersystem, $1100 
386sx mthrbrd/upgrade your 
PC! $350, 386 notebook 
40megs, VGA, $2400/b 
Matt x1778 
1988 TOYOTA CARROLA SR-5 
SILVER, NEW SNOWS, NO 
MAINTENANCE, GREAT CAR! 
GREAT BUY AT $5200! 
256-7013 
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Promote and Organize our Spring Break tours. All materials furnished. Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus Marketing. 1-800-423­5264 
TICKETS 
I NEED 5-6 TICKETS 
TO TENN. WILL PAY 
BIG $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Call Sean @427 4 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP $$$. 800-638-7655. 
WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! HELP ME! Dan x2349 
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay $$$.Call at work 
(312) 701-6204 or at home 
(708) 616-7818 anytime. PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX 
NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272-1967. 
NEED 1 GA FOR PITTSBURGH JOE X1360 
NEEDED: 4 PITT GAs Call Heather at 3427. 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S CALL ROB @ 3054 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. 
FULFILL MY NEEDS!!! 2 PITT &4 TENNGA CALL TIM #1706 
$$$$$$$$ 
ONLY Chance to SEE Mom & Dad 
BEFORE CHRISTMAS!!!!!!!!!! 
NEED TWO USC TIX (GA'S) 
WILL PAY! CALL AMANDA AT 
1715. I MISS MOM & DAD!!!!!!! 
HELP!! I need PITT TIX for my 
parents and some friends-if 
I don't get'em I'm dead!! 
Please call Lynne@ X2614 
STUD TICKET BOOK FOR SALE CALL 3516 
NEEDED 2-3 GA'S FOR NAVY! 
WILL PAY $$$ CALL 2605 
I need Tix all games Jason x2030 
Need two GA's for Tennessee and two for USC. Will PAY!! Bill 2157 
$$$$$ 
USC GA's needed. Call and leave 
message 277-9468. 
$$$$$ 
NEED TENN. GA'S. 
CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, 
OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. 
1 STD TIC 4 Sale 
232-8230 
NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES. X1578 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD 
JESUITS DREAM COME TRUE? 
NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC 
ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­
0654 
WE HAVE GA'S TO ALL GAMES, 
YE8-EVEN USC 
x 1686 Mark or Steve 
NEED 2 PITT GA's 
Monica X2680 
TICKETS!! I TICKETS!!! 
If you ANY tickets for any home game, call me Paul x3830 
TICKETS!!! TICKETS!!! 
PLEASE!! 
SELL ME 1 OR 2 TENN TIX!! 
X1684 
HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL JASON,287-8818. 
WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS PLEASE CALL EMILY AT 277-4861 
i need 2 GA's lor USC and PITT. 
Greg x1795. 
I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! 
CALL MIKE AT 1103. 
FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES 273-1802 
HELP! 
TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED 
Please call Sam Santo at 
(201)217-0030 (home) or 
(201) 992-8700 (work). 
I'M OUT OF LUCK .... UNLESS YOU SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S LOG 
VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. GA'S FOR HIS DOMER RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS liPLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR 3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER lAM 
Need 3-4 PITI. TICKETS. Will pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396. 
Need 4 TENN GA's call jon 271-1562 
I need 2 USC tix Tom #3109 
I need 4 GA's for the USC game. Please call Carla at x5404 
I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND TENN. 
CALL TOM X1762 
NEED 4 G.A. TIX TO ANY HOME GAME. WILL PAY GOOD $$$. TIM 11763 I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY GA TIXS.272-6306 

I NEED 2-3 PITT GA'S Julie x2912 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL JOANNE X4899 
Needed: 2 USC GA's. Call Sheila 283-4842. 
Need 2 TN GAs 
Zeke 1786 
I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.S CALL SCOTT X 1688 
Need 2-4 USC GAs &1 Pitt tix ASAP!I Kathy x3803 
NEED 2 GA or STUD TIX for TENN. $ or sexual favors pending. call271-1545 
Need 1 NAVY GA -Tony #2199 or#2174 • 
PITT GA'S FOR SALE CALL 1781; MAKE OFFER 

NEED 1 PITT GA CALL MATT X3666 
PLEASE!! I NEED 2 NAVY GAS HEIDI-277-6806 
Relative have never seen CONDOMS IN ACTION! NEED 3 USC GA'S to have their DREAMS COME TRUE Call MIKE at X2360 
Have Pitt Need Tenn x3074 
selling 2 pitt std tx but I need 2 usc std tx. Will buy the USC tx or trade 2 Pitt tX+$$. Sean x1387 
NEED 3 PITT GA's for Mom, Dad and little sister's first game EVER! Call John x3325 
4-SALE STUD. TIX BOOK 288-5859 
Please Help! I need Pitt GA's for family. Call Jim @ 1493. 
Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) 624-7990 
I desperately need 2 U.S.C student G.A's. Call Melli @ 3950. 
NEEDED: 1 OR 2 PITT GA's PLEASE CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks! 
Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and USC Whitney X4304 
STUD TICKET BOOK FOR SALE $50 BOB 239-6745 
NEED! 2 Pitt GAs HAVE! 2 Navy GAs LISA X4858 
HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 
Help! My boss is a ND graduate and he has ordered me to get him 2 Pitt GA's or Else. Call X4970 I will do anything (almost). 
PERSONAL 

I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
Going to CLEVELAND this weekend? I might like a ride. please. Pete x1791. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON 
CAMPUSANDEARNFREET~P 
+BONUS CASH! FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
ATTENTION MICH. ST. VIEWERS! I need a copy of the Mich St. vs. ND '91 game on video for a spirited ND fan who missed it. Contact Gabrielle at x2855 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM SWEENEY ! 
M.S. LOVES YOU 
G.D. WOULD LOVE YOU IF HE 
KNEW YOU YOUR PARENTS LOVE YOU YOUR BROTHERS LOVE YOU GOD LOVES YOU YOUR ROOMIE AND THE REST 
OF THE WING LOVES YOU AND WE'LL PARTY WITH YOU SATURDAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
P.S. HAVE FUN WITH THE FOOTBALL TEAM'S SOCKS TONIGHT 
CORKY LOST THE ROOM !! 
I am the Lizard Child, and I've got an Oedipus complex that'll drive you wild. 
Mike, congratulations on getting into KU med school! 
Love Knott 2B 

EAR CANDY WVFI640am presents 
The Jericho Sesssions 
A 73 minute CD featuring 19 original songs from 19 campus bands. All precedes benefit the South Bend Runaway Shelter. 
ON SALE NOW!! AT LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK 
LIVE MUSIC Dominic Campanella at The Coffeehouse Friday, Oct. 4 (Acoustic Originals) 
SMC -NO Summer Programs in London (5/20-6/19) and Rome (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England, France, Germany, Switzerland, and Italy. Courses in bio, business, education. history, photography, Italian, polysci, and sociology. Meeting Oct. 7 at 6:15, Carroll hall. Teachers, students, pizza, etc. Info -Call Prof. A.R. Black 284­4460 (office) 272-3726 (home). 
WHO IS CORKY? AND WHY DID HE LOSE HIS ROOM ? ............... STAY TUNED. 
EBD, TYFTWIMS YAYATE,B OS, 
EMB 

WANTED: One national domestic policy. Must be manageable, economical and sufficient to meet the needs of over 200 million ignored Americans. If you can help, please call our toll-free Washington line at 1-800-GET-CLUE 
REMEMBER ! D.C. Club NO bus for Oct. Break! 
hey nif 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISiN 
COLLEEN LOEFFLER (in lnnsbruck), Hope you are having a great time! We miss you and all of your fabulous advice! I'm sure you're having a blast though. How's the food (let's get right to the point here)? Hope to hear from you soon! 
Love, Jeanne and Collynn 

......................................... 
OVER 40%0FF Hawaii plane tickets--CHEAP! -Over Thanksgiving to see the NO football game in Honolulu. Call x3457 for info. 
•• MOVIES on a NY BUS? •• 1st time! Bus wNCR to Ll-lv 1 0/19 rtn 1 0/25-sign up & $ Oct 3 Lafortune 8-10pm. ?s Janice x2639, Jonix3793 We need enthusiastic, articulate individuals to communicate with our computer product customers world­wide. Full and part-time positions available from 10am-7pm. Familiarity with personal computers helpful but not required. Our terrific staff, pleasant working conditions and new office building on the river create a positive non-smoking environment. Send resume to: Department CD Microshpere, Inc. 56790 Magnetic Dr. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
CAMP LEWIS -Event wknd. to promote Lewis spirit & raise $to send a Logan Ctr. participant to a special camp FRIDAY-Bonfire! S'mores, 
stories and sing-a-long BRING YOUR OWN STICK! 
SATURDAY-Camp! Lanyards, games, tie-dye, &bugjuice WE WON"T TEST YOUR 
ARCHERY SKILLS! SAT. NITE-Camp Lewis SYR NO SQUAREDANCING REQUIRED 
MAXINE YANT-if you are reading this in Ocala, have a super birthday!!!!(although you'll get it late!!) 
One day until Guido's big one. It could be ugly ... 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA OR ANYWHERE IN VICINITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK. CALL KATHY 284-5269. 
I.U. STUDENT WHO WROTE ARTICLE AGAINST N.D. (Sept. 25 Observer) 
Address comments to: STEVE HURST 717 S. WOODLAWN AVE. BLOOMINGTON, IN 47401 812-323-2730 
To all students interested in attending the LULAC dinner, it has been postponed from Thurs. Oct. 3rd until Thurs. Oct. 10th. Sorry for any inconvenience. 
Jen, 
That was a rather suggestive personal the other day. I guess it all depends on the size of the box, don't you think? If it doesn't fit, well then stretch a little. 
Love, 
-A­

THE METHA-TONES Tonight, Club 23 Show any REAL tatoo get in 1/2 price' 
TO SHAWN WOODEN: You are NOT a scrub, hypothetically speaking, neither is John, OK? So I guess I won't see you this weekend. 
Your secretary PSI LIKE to answer the phone. 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
***NEW MOVIES ... 
THE DOORS ARE HERE! 
Many New Titles. Special Membership Rates OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 
4:00-11:00 p.m. 
-.-HAWWasl*lgbll .llII 28 7:11fM fN 11*8 IVdabla ltl.lll Llforbl1l W/SbDid II 
RAISE $500••• $1 000... $1500 
iF 0 OJ;] 
l~:r·:·J~ 
F ..... ll» 
RAISING 
For your fraternity, sorority, team or other campus organization. 
wowmr NO IIMSTMIIfT lfOUIIfDI CALL 1-600-950-6472, ext. 50 
Save a tree. Recycle this newspaper. 
--------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------­

J 
SCOREBOARD 

BASEBALL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE BASKETBALL Eaat Dlvlalon Eaat Eaat National Baaketball Auoclatlon 
w l Pa C?B l10 Streak Home Away w l T Pd. PF PA w l T Pd. PF PA HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed Carl Herrera, x-Toronto 8sa 70 .560 z-7-3 Won 2 46-35 43-35 Buffalo 5 0 0 1.000 162 115 Washington 5 0 0 1.000 169 58 forward. Boston B4 74 .532 4112 3-7 Won 1 43-34 41-40 Miami 2 3 0 .400 100 112 Dalas 3 2 0 .600 95 96 INDIANA PACERS-Signed Randy Wittman and Detroit 81 77 .513 7112 z-6-4 lost 1 49-32 32-45 New England 2 3 0 .400 56 91 Philadelphia 3 2 0 .600 71 66 Greg Grant, guards; Greg DreHing, center; DougMilwaukee 79 79 .500 9112 z-7-3 Won 1 43-37 36-42 N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 .400 103 98 Phoenix 3 2 0 .600 B3 85 ROih and Clifford Martin, forwards; and Sean 
New York 69 89 .437 19 112 z-6-4 Won 3 37-40 32-49 Indianapolis 0 5 0 .000 40 113 N.Y. Giants 2 3 0 .400 75 B4 Green, guard-forward. Baltimore 66 92 .418 22 112 4-6 lost 3 32-46 34-46 Central Central LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Signed EliOI Perry,Cleveland 55 103 .34a 33 112 4-6 lost 1 30-51 25-52 Houston 3 1 0 .750 114 55 Chicago 4 1 0 .BOO 90 91 guard.Weat Dlvlalon Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 Detroit 4 1 0 .BOO 104 99
56 52 LOS ANGELES LAKER~Acqulred Sedale 
w l Pd C?B l10 Streak Home Away Pttsburgh 2 2 0 .500 94 101 MlnnesOia 2 3 0 .400 49 82 Threatt, guard from the Seattle St.perSonlcs for x-MinnesOia 94 83 .599 z-7-3 Won 2 50-28 44-35 Cincinnati 0 4 0 .000 61 123 Green Bay 1 4 0 .200 66 95 second-round draft cholcee In 1994, 1995 and Chicago 84 73 .535 10 z-3-7 lost 3 44-35 40-38 WHt Tarfl)a Bay 0 5 0 .000 59 100 1996. Waived Mychal 'fhonllson, center, and larryOakland 83 75 .525 11 1/2 S-5 Won 1 47-34 36-41 Denver 4 1 0 .BOO t 14 65 WHt Dr-. guard. Tax• 83 76 .522 12 Z-5-5 lost 2 44-34 39-42 Kar.u City 3 2 0 .800 65 63 New Orleans s 0 0 1.000 121 47 NEW JERSEY NET~Walved Stanley Brundy, Kanau City 81 n .513 13 112 z-6-4 lost 1 39-41 42-36 LA Raiders 3 2 0 .600 7B 87 Atlanta 2 3 0 .400 62 BB forward. Seattle 81 78 .509 14 5-5 Won 2 43-35 38-43 Seattle 2 3 0 .400 98 79 LA Rams 2 3 0 .400 73 109 NEW YORK KNICKS-Traded Maurice Cheeks, California 7B 81 .491 17 z-3-7 Lost 2 37-41 41-40 San DleQo 0 5 0 .000 76 11 San Franclsc 2 3 0 .400 95 69 guard, to the Atlanta Hawks for Tim McCorrnic:k, 

center. NATIONAL LEAGUE ORLANDO MAGIC-Signed Chris Corchlanl, Eaat Dlvlelon guard. 
w L Pa C?B l10 Streak Home Away SACRAMENTO KINGS--Signed Randy Brown, X-Pittsburgh 96 63 .604 z-6-4 lost 1 50-31 46-32 AL LEADERS Nt LEADERS guard, to a 2-year contract 
51. Louis B4 75 .528 12 

z-7-3 Won 3 52-32 32-43 SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Signed Tom Garrick,New York 76 82 .481 19 1/2 4-6 Won t 40-42 36-40 guard, and Paul Mokeskl. center.
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE
Philadelphia 78 83 .47B 20 5-5 lost 1 45-35 31-48 WASHINGTON BULLETS--Signed David
BATTING-Franco, Texas, .340; Boggs. Boston, BA TnNG--Pendleton, Atlanta, .319; Morris, 
Chicago 74 83 .471 21 3-7 Won 1 31-46 Wingate, guard. 
43-37 .332; Randolph, Milwaukee, .330; Griffey Jr, Cincinnati, .318; TGwynn, San Diego, .317;
Montreal 70 88 .443 25 1/2 4-6 4 33-35 37·53lost Seattle, .327; CRipken, Baltimore, .326; Molitor, McGee, San Francisco, .313; Jose, St. Louis, .306; FOOTBALLWeat Dlvlalon 

Milwaukee, .325; Palmeiro, Texas, .323. larkin, Clndnnatl, .305; BonNia, Pittsburgh•.300; National Football Leaguew l Pa C?B l10 Streak Home Away RUNS-4Aolltor, Milwaukee, 12B; Palmeiro, Calderon, Montreal, .300. INDIANAPOLIS COLTS--Signed Jack linn,Loe Angellltl 92 66 .582 7-3 Won 3 54-26 38-40 Texas, 115; Canseco, Oakland, 114; Sierra, Texas, RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 110; Johnson, N­offensive tackle. and Bob Mrosko, tight end.
Atlanta 92 67 .579 112 7-3 6

Won 46-32 46-35 109; White, Toronto, 109; Franco, Texas, 105; York, 108; Sandberg, Chicago, 10t; Bonilla, Released Cornell Holoway, defensive back.San Diego BO 7B .506 12 z-6-4 lost 3 39-39 41-39 Thomas, Chicago, 101. Pittsburgh, 100; Gant, Atlanta, 97; OSm~h. St. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Placed Marcus
Cincinnati 74 85 .465 

18 112 3-7 lost 3 39-42 35-43 RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 129; Canseco, Oakland, Louis, 96; JBell, Pittsburgh, 94. WHaon, running back, on the practice roster.
San Francisco 73 B6 .459 19 1/2 4-6 1 41-37 32-49Lost 121; Sierra, Texas, 115; CRipken, Baltimore, 114; RBI-Johnaon, N-York, 1t5; WCiark, San MIAMI OOLPHIN~Walved Brian Sochia,Houston 64 95 .403 28 1/2 z-4-6 Won 1 37-44 27-51 Carter, Toronto, 108; Thomas, Chicago, 107; Francisco, 114; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 113; McGriff, defensllle end. 

x-clinched division title JuGonzalez, Texas, 100; Griffey Jr, Seattle, 100. San Diego, 1 05; Gant, Atlanta, 102; Dawson, PHOENIX CARDINALS--Signed Dave Duerson,z-denotlltl first garrs was a win. 

Chicago, 102; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 99. safety, and Mke Brennan, tad<le. Placed Robert 
Baltimore, 206; Palmeiro, Texas, 200; Sierra, HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, 1B5; Butler, Los Massey, defensive back, on injured ret~erve. Texas, 199; Franco, Texas, 196; Puckett, Angeles, 17B; Jose, St. Louis, 172; Sabo, SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Jim Skow, HITS-4Aolilor, Milwaukee, 21t; CRipken, 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Mlnnet~ota. 193; Sax, New York, 193. Cindnnatl, 171; BonMia, Pittsburgh, 171; Finley, defensive end. 

Tueaday'a Ga"'" Wedneaday'a Gamea Canadian Football LaagueDOUBLES-Palmelro, Texas. 47; CRipken, Houston, 169; TGwynn, San Diego, 168;Milwaukee 11, Cleveland 0, 1st game Late Game Not Included Baltimore, 45; Sierra, Texas, 44; Griffey Jr. Sealtle, Sandberg. Chicago, 168. CFL-Approved the transfer of the Calgary Cleveland 6, Milwaukee 2, 2nd game M llwaukee 11, Cleveland 4 42; Reed, Boston, 42; Carter, Toronto, 42; Boggs, DOUBLES-Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 44; Jose, 51. Stal'!1)8ders to Rycxman Flnandal Corporation, Toronto 5. CaiHomla 2 New York 4, Baltimore 3 BOilton, 42. Louis, 40; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 36; Zeile, St. Louis, subject to the approval of the shareholders ol the Minnesota 3. Chicago 2 Toronto 8, California 5 TRIPLES-Molltor, Milwaukee, 13; LJohnson, 34; Sabo. Cincinnati, 34; Gant, Atlanta, 34; club on Oct. 23. 

Detroit 8, Boston 5 Boston 5. D«rok 3 Chicago, 12; RAiomar, Toronto, 11; Whke, Toronto, Pendleton, Atlanta, 34. BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS--Signed GregNew York 3, Baltimore 2. 11 Innings Seattle 4, Texas 3 10; McRae, Kansa City, 9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; TRIPLES-Lanklord, St. louis, 15; TGwynn, San McCormack, defensive tackle. 

Seattle B. Texas 1 Minnetlota at Chicago, ppd., rain Devereaux, Baltimore, 8; Mack, Minnesota, B; Diego, 11; Finley, Houston, 10; LGonzalez, CALGARY STAMPEDER5-Aeieased Phil Oakland 4, Kansas City o Oakland a1 Kansas City, (n) Polonla, California, 8. Houston, 9; Grissom, Montreal. 9; Pendleton, CoiUns, running back, from the practice roster. 

Thuraday'a Gemea 

HOME RUNS---Qinseco, Oakland, 44; Fielder, Atlanta, 8; 5 are tied with 7. HOCKEY Min~ota (Morris 18-12 and Tapanl1~9) a Chicago (Mc0owell17-10 and Hibbard 11-11), 2, 1:35 p.m. Detroit, 43; CRipken, Baltimore, 34; Carter, HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 38; National Hockey Laague Baltimore (Ballard 8-11) at N-York (Johnson 5-11 ), 7:30 p.m. Toronto, 33; Thomas, Chicago, 31; Tartabull, MaWilliarra, San Francisco, 33; Gant, Atlanta, 31; EDMONTON OILERS-Traded Steve Smith, ~roll (Gullickson 19-9) at Boston (Mcwton 1-4), 7:35p.m. Kansas City, 31; Tettleton, Detroit, 30. McGriff, San Diego, 31; Dawson, Chicago, 29; delenseman, to the Chicago Blackhawk& for Dave 
Milwaukee (Navarro 14-12) at Cleveland (Swindell i-15) 7:35pm. STOLEN BASES-RAiomar, Toronto. 53; WCiark, San Francisco, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 28. Manson, defenseman, and a draft choice. Traded
Only games ICheduled • • 

RHenderson. Oakland, 53; Ralnlltl, Chicago, 50; STOLEN BASES-Griasom, Montreal, 76; Kenny Llnseman, center, to the Toronto Maple Polonia, California, 48; Cuyler, Detroit, 41; Franco, Nixon, Atlanta, 72; DeShields, Montreal, 56; leafs for !lAure considerations. Texas, 34; Whhe, Toronto, 33. Lankford, St. Louis, 44; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 42; HARTFORD WHALER~Traded Dean Evason,
NAnONAL LEAGUE PITCHING (16 Declsions)-Heskech, Boston, Butler. Los Angeles, 38; Coleman, N-York, 37. center, to the San Joee Sharks for Dan Keczmer,Tueaclay'a GaiiiH Thuraday'a Gamea 12-4, .750, 3.29; Erickson, Minnesota, 19-B, .704, PITCHING (16 Dedsions)-Rijo, Cincinnati, 15-defenseman. 

Pltlsburgh 2, New York 1 No garrws scheduled 3.27; langston, CaiHornla, 18-8, .692, 3.05; 5, .750, 2.48; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 19-8, .704. 3.18; MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Assigned Steve St Louis 3, Montreal 1 Frlday'a GaiiiH Wegman, Milwaukee, 15-7, .682, 2.85; MMoore, MiWilliams, PhHade~hia, 11-5, .687, 2.40; Avery. Malais, left wing, to Kalamazoo of the InternationalAtlanta 7, Clndnnatl 6 St. louis at Chicago, 3:20 p.m. Oakland, 17-8, .680, 2.96; Gullekson, Detroit, 19-9, Atlanta, 11-B•.680, 3.43; Hurst, San Diego, 15-8, Hockey League. 

Phil~ia 6, Chicago 5, 131nnings New York at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. .679, 3.90; Finley, Callornia, 18-9, .667, 3.89; .652, 3.29; Greene, Philadelphia, 13-7, .650, 3.38; NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Assigned Jell Finley, 

loa Angeles 3, San Diego 1 

Montreal al Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Clemens, Boston, 18-9, .667, 2.54; Ryan, Texas, Gooden, N-York, 13-7, .650, 3.60. delenseman, Huble McOonough, center, and BradSan Francisco 6, Houston 4 Houston at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. 12-6, .667, 2.93. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, N-Vorl<, 222; Glavine, Dalgarno, right wing, to Capital Diatrid o1 theWadneaday'a Gamea Clndnnatl at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 231; Atlanta, 192; GMaddux, Chicago, 191; Harnisch, American Hockey League; Brad Turner,
late Game Not Included 

los Angelee at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m RJohnson,Seattle,226;Ryan, Texas, 193; Houston, 166; Rijo, Cincinnati, 162; Benes, San defensernan, and Jeff Jablonski, left wing. to N­St. Loull 6, Montreal 4 Mc~U. Chicago, 188; Langston, California, Diego, 161; Greene. Philadelphia, 154. Haven of the AHL; and Rob Vanderydt, lett wing,Houston 7, San Francisco 5 
... 173; Candiotti, Toronto, 167; Swindell, Cleveland, SAVES-LeSmlth, St. louis, 47; Dl:lble, and Paul Rutherford, center, to Richmond o1 the 
.j 
Chicago 1, Philadelphia 0 
165. Cincinnat~ 31; MiWilliams, Philadelphia. 30; East Coast Hockey league. Released LarryAtlanta 6, Cincinnati 3 SAVES-Harvey, California, 45; Eckersley, Franco, New York. 30; Righetti, San Francisco, 24; Melnyk, defenseman. 
New York 9, Pittsburgh 6, 11 Innings Oakland, 43; Aguilera, Minnesota, 41; Reardon, leffens, San Diego, 22; BLandrum, Pittsburgh, 17; NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Ric Bennett andSan Diego at los Angeles, (n) Boston, 40; Montgomery, Kansas City. 33; Henke, DaSmlth, Chicago, 17; Berenguer. Atlanta, 17. Louie DeBrusk, 1811 wings, to Binghamton of the Toronto, 32; Olson, Baltimore. 3t. American Hockey League. 

ANYTHING LESS WOULD BE UNCIVILIZED 

Ret~ulta ol Wednesday's lnterhall Croes Country Meet t991 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
TEAM Septei'Tber 7 Yl. Indiana W 49-27 
St Edward's 34 September 14@ Michigan L 24-14 
Grace 77 Septermer 21 VB. Michigan St. w49-10 
Cavanaugh 83 Septerrber 2B @ Purdue W 45-20 
Alurml109 October 5 @ Stanford 

Flanner t12 October 12 vs. Pittsburgh 
Morrisey136 October 19@ Air Force 
Pangborn 138 October 26 VI. USC 
Stanford 153 November 2 Yl. Navy 

November 9 VB. Tennessee INDIVIDUAL 
Novermer 16@ Penn St. Men-Paul Delave 13:22 
November 30 @ Hawaii Women-Kerry Hagan 18:15 
Thll Weekend In lrlah Sports. 
Friday, Oct. .. 

Men'l and Women'l CroM-Country: host NOire Dame Invitational, 2:00 p.m., Burke GoH Course 
Women'1 Tanrlia: tDat Notre Dame Invitational, 3:00p.m.. Courtney Tennis Center 
Women'l Soccer: hoet Southern llllnols-Edwardevllla, 4:00p.m. Alurml Field 
Men'l Tennll: a Kanlucky lnvlatlonal. 8:00a.m. 
Men'l Soccer. a Xa¥1ar, 1:00, p.m. 
Seturday, Oct. I 
Women's Tennil: N.D. lnvtt•lonal, 9:00a.m., Courtney Tennis Center 
Men's Tennil: • Kantucky lnvbtlonal, 8:00a.m. 


Thursday, October 3, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Battlin' Braves keep coming from behind to win 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Another day. another amazing comeback in the clutch for the Atlanta Braves. 
Seems nothing can faze them as they stay right behind Los Angeles in the NL West. They've pulled out four of their last five wins with late rallies to stay only a game out of first. 
What's more, they seem to enjoy this living dangerously. 
"It's a great race," David Justice said after hitting a ninth-inning homer to complete another comeback Tuesday night. ''I'm absolutely having fun. There's no pressure. 
"Even if we don't win it, we can say we had a great year and played some great base­ball." 
Lately, they've played some of their best baseball in the late innings. 
They sent the NL West race into its final week with three pulsating wins in the Astrodome last weekend. The headlines were always the same: Braves Stage Late Rally To Win. 
On Friday, they overcame a two-run deficit in the eighth to win 4-2. More of the same Sat­urday, rallying from two runs down in the seventh to win 5-4. 
And finally, they blew a five­run lead before regrouping to win 6-5 in 13 innings on Sun­day, completing the sweep. 
A 4-0 victory Monday in Cincinnati was a nice break, but it lasted just one night. Their most unbelievable comeback was still ahead. 
They overcame a 6-0 first-in­ning deficit Tuesday night against Jose Rijo, one of the league's best starters. Justice hit a two-run homer in the ninth off Rob Dibble for a 7-6 victory that sent the Braves riding piggyback onto the field in celebration. 
Stirring comebacks like this can get a team thinking that maybe fate's on their side. 
"We feel this is our year," Justice said. "Everyone's always said the Braves are rebuilding. They've always said maybe 1992 or 1993 will be our year. We feel this is our year -not next year or the year after." 
Is the great Dodger in the sky shifting allegiances? 
"I think somebody wants us to win this thing other than our teammates," Greg Olson said. 
The way they rallied Tuesday, it's small wonder they're think­ing about destiny. 

Joe Oliver's grand slam put the Reds up 6-0 in the first. Jose Rijo, who hasn't lost a game this year at Riverfront Stadium, was on the mound and looking sharp. 
Fortunately for the Braves, the Reds' outfield wasn't. Mari­ano Duncan, making his first career start in center as an in­jury fill-in, misplayed two balls to help the Braves climb back to 6-5 after seven innings. 
"I thought that was a mistake in the beginning, experimenting with a guy in center field," Rijo said. ·~we tried a guy at a different position to see what he can do. It just didn't work out . for us." 
He shouldn't have been sur­prised. Things just seem to work out for the Braves these days. 
Take the ninth inning. Dibble gives up a lead-off single to Mark Lemke, pinch-runner Deion Sanders steals second, and Justice hits a two-run homer to win it. 
How improbable was that? Well, Dibble had only given up four homers and blown only four save chances all season. No team had hit more than one homer off him, and the Braves 
FRIDAY 


OCTOBER 4, 1991 7:30 P.M. -1 :30 A.M. STEPAN CENTER 
Food and desserts from countries such as Africa, China, South America, etc... just waiting to be tasted by you and your friends. 
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION !! 
GREAT FOOD GREAT ENTERTAINMENT 
HERITAGE DANCE CO. SUPERCOMBO PAN AMERICANO 
GREAT DANCE MUSIC DANCE CONTESTS l'l{lZ.ES 


Spma.sofld6y: Mrtflicufluro('4fwtivt Cozmcil 



AP Photo 

Tom Glavine of the Braves won his 20th game of the season last night. 
already were on the list: Fran-ninth-inning homer to set up a 
cisco Cabrera hit a three-run, 10-9 win Aug. 21. 
Stanford 
continued from page 20 
roster. Outside hitter Dawnis Wilson (91) and middle blocker Leslie Page (78), however, lead the team in kills and provide stability for the Spartan squad. 
For Notre Dame, junior Alicia Turner continues to top the team in kills (124). total chances (335) and service aces (14), but it is the play of fresh­man Christy Peters which has been the most pleasant surprise of the season. 
Peters was one of the bright spots at the Miami Invitational, making the all-tournament squad with 44 kills and 45 digs over the three matches. She now leads the team in digs with 124, and is usually the player Brown turns to when she needs a spark on the floor. 
But as Brown stressed, it will take a total team effort for the Irish to pull out at least one victory this weekend. 
"We absolutely have to have a very strong match from every­one," she said. "But it's fun to go into matches like these be­cause we have nothing to lose." 
London $179* Brussels $179* Frankfurt $305* Hon!l Kon!l $415* Sydney $635* 
•Fares;neachWlft from ChicagO based on a II:Uldtrip J.XXd\ase. T.sces not included m restrictions apply. call b o4ha" w::rldwide cXstilatior'6, both Cf1e Wllf m rOl.Jldtrip. 
Council Trawd 
1153 N. Oe&bom St., ~ floor Chica90. 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Fr~~ 199~ Stud~nt Trav~l catalog! 


~--~~-­
page 16 The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1991 

''l. 
j 
J 
, l 
I I 
! 
j 
l l 
} 
) 
I } 
! 
~ j 
SPORlS SHORTS 
Former Tribe skipper denies a curse 
•CLEVELAND -Former Cleveland Indians manager Bobby Bragan insists he never put a curse on the club. With the · Indians holding the worst record in baseball -miles behind every other team -it was inevitable there would be a revival of the legend that Bragan put a curse on the franchise when he was fired June 27, 1958. "You folks in Cleveland have got to blame somebody else for the Indians being so bad, not me," Bragan told columnist Russell Schneider of The (Cleveland) Plain Dealer. "That stuff about a curse was the brainchild of a Cleveland disc jockey," Bragan said. "He made it up a couple of years after I left." Bragan, 73, who was fired 67 gam~s into the 1968 season with a 31-36 record, says he left qmetly after being shown the door. 
Bullets~ive Win~ate another chance 
•EMMIT BURG, M . -David Wingate is getting another chance to play basketball. Wingate, a star guard in high school in Baltimore and at Georgetown, is at the Washington Bullets training camp hoping to win a job with the NBA team. The Bullets say Wingate will not only have to prove himself on the court, but in life as well. "He knows one false step and he's finished," owner Abe Pollin said when Wingate signed Tuesday. "He knows he's on trial." "His credibility as a basketball player is at stake and he also has to redeem himself with the Baltimore-Washington community," general manager John Nash said. Wingate, 27, a five year veteran of the NBA with San Antonio and Philadelphia, was accused of rape last September by a 22-year-old woman in San Antonio. Three days later, a 17-year-old woman said he raped her at his apartment in Columbia. Both charges were ultimately dropped. Wingate settled a civil suit filed by the Texas woman and the Maryland woman's family decided against pressing the case. This summer, when Wingate faced a paternity suit in San Antonio, the Spurs decided against re-signing him. "The Spurs just felt I needed a change of scenery," Wingate said. 
Vince Lombardi's arandson plays for A.F. 
•AIR FORCE ACADE Y, Colo. -Joe Lombardi, grandson of coaching great Vince Lombardi, says he is interested in fol­lowing in the legend's footsteps eventually. But for now his goal is to be a starter for the Air Force and complete his military commitment. The 20-year old Lombardi, a 6-foot-3, 212-pound sophomore, is a tight end, but so far his play has been limited to special teams. Is it be appropriate for the grandson of Vince Lombardi to be a special teams player? "Names are one thing," he says, "but you know how coaches are, they pick players who can win. When I'm ready to help the team win, that's when I'll be playing more." He has a slightly different version of his grandfather's famous quote that winning "is the only thing." "I think he probably said that winning isn't everything, but the will to win is the only thing," Lombardi said. 

Venturi settles in as Colts' new coach, offensive changes may be in the works 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Rick Venturi made no inspirational speeches or major changes in his first full day as head coach ~ of the winless Indianapolis Colts. 
Venturi, the defensive coordi­nator and linebacker coach un­der Ron Meyer until Tuesday, held a meeting with his coaches and players Wednesday morn­ing and then divided his time working with both the offense and defense during his first practice as head coach. 
"There were several things that we talked about, a lot of them were things just from the heart, coming from my being 10 years with this organization," said Venturi, who makes his debut as an NFL head coach against the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. 
"It was just Rick Venturi to the team. To specify all that was said is really not important. I think more than anything, it was know me, know what to expect, let's do it." 
Venturi said he's still consid­ering an offensive plan for the Steelers (2-2), who arrive in the Hoosier Dome having had a week off. 
"I certainly want everybody out there knowing what they're doing. If it means cutting things, then I won't hesitate to do it," said Venturi, whose in­jury-plagued offense is 25th overall in the NFL and last among the 28 teams in rushing with an average of 50.8 yards per game. "Sometimes I think it takes more courage to cut some things out of your offense and defense than to leave it in." 
The losses and ineffective of­fense resulted in Meyer and Leon Burtnett, his offensive co­ordinator and quarterback coach, being fired Tuesday. 

Venturi declined to be specific about changes he plans for the Steelers, but quarterback Jeff George said his freedom to call audibles at the line of scrim­mage is being limited and An­thony Johnson, who hasn't car­ried the football in two seasons with the Colts, was running with the ball more in practice. 
"We're pretty much calling a play and going with it," George said. "If you get to audibles at the line, guys are wondering if we've gone to a run. It gets real confusing. Right now, I'm just calling a play and not worrying about the audibles and just go­ing with what's called.... It's easier for me. I'm making less calls. A lot of time I was making a lot of pass protection calls and now I'm telling them in the huddle ... and will go with that play most of the time." 
The coaching changes were a shock to George, who was a freshman at Purdue when Burtnett was fired as head coach of the Boilermakers. 
"You lose good friends in Leon and Ron. I was really close to Leon. I'd come in every morning and I'd go to his office and we'd talk for a while. It re­ally hit me today when I went down to talk to him and he wasn't there," George said. "On the practice field, I'd turn and look over my shoulder ready to say something and see him laughing and he wasn't there. 
In that aspect I feel bad for him and his family because he was such a super guy. 
"Coaches don't really deserve this. It is a business, I under­stand that but what Ron and Leon went through this year, it really wasn't their fault. They deserve better." 
Eric Dickerson, who played for Meyer at Southern Methodist and whose acquisi­tion in a three-team trade with Los Angeles in 1987 helped the Colts earn their only playoff appearance since 1977 that year, was another Colt who thought the coaching staff was not the reason for the club's poor start. 
"Rick's a very good coach. I've always liked Rick. I think he believes in hard work and most definitely, we need a lot of work," said Dickerson, No. 4 on the NFL all-time rushing list but averaging a career-low 3.3 yards per carry this year with 260 yards on 80 carries. "I hated (the change) for Ron and Leon because they're friends.... The only thing about that is be­ing in the National Football League, it can happen to any of us.... It's a job that you do, it's a chance you take. If you don't win, you're gone." 
He's uncertain if the change will produce success. 
"That's something that man­agement did. They think it's best for the team and I'm a part of the team, so I just go along with what they want to do." 


, 'p 
' 
_. $ 


... .., .............................................................At' .................... ..,..._... ................... ...
t a t a n e n t t n • e t t a t t t • t t Q Q ... Q 

at, ........... "*. t......,. · ..:vuv %VUU¥~ ~ xu xuur MI4UJ!__ ­

TASTE OF NATIONS 

Singing Performances Coffee (Around the World) Refreshments provided
FRIDAY OCTOBER 4, 1991 

Come on over! Sit and listen to a variety of 7:30 P.M. -1 :30 A.M. 
music from the sounds of a grand piano to the pleasant melodies of the Spanish lan­
STEPAN CENTER 

guage. 
Free food and desserts from many coun­

Tuesday, October 1, 1991
tries just waiting to be tasted by you and your friends. The OJ will be pia ying hits from 

8:00 -11:00 P.M. all over the world. There will also be various 
Theodores
dance contests and prizes to go to the best Fred and Ginger. 
The decorations and atmosphere are awe­some-you won't even recognize Stepan 


Center. "Let Us Pray ..." WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE! A Multicultural Experience 
As a closing to the Multicultural Fall Festival, we invite you to join us in aCULTURE ON THE QUAD celebration of thanksgiving. 
Lyons-Morrissey Quad 
MONDAY-FRIDAY 12:30-1:30 P.M. FIELDHOUSE MALL 
2:00 P.M. 
(Rain location: LaFortune T.V. lounge) 
Sunday, October 6, 1991 
Monday St. Mary's French Club French Crepes Tuesday Notre Dame Gennan Club Gennan Food Wednesday Notre Dame Italian Club Italian Food Thursday Notre Dame Japan Club Japanese Writing Friday Notre Dame Spanish Club Spanish Desserts 

e • t ..v a Q $ Q $ e $ $ n Q $ Q $ Q Q e en n *$$en$ e 'e e t' $a$$ a Q $$a$$$ e $ ... t $ $ ..........................,.. $$ • $$ e $ $ $ •
t t 
BLACK HISTORY 

BLACK HISTORY THROUGH MEMORABILIA 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 THEODORE'S Exhibit: 4:00 -7:00 P.M. Discussion: 7:00 P.M. VANESSA DURGANS 
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD 
September 30 -October 4 4:30 -6:30 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 
(LaFortune if raining) 

Dancing and Singing all week long. These are exciting, live performances which shouldn't be 
September 30 -October 4 
12:00 -1:00 P.M. 

I.S.O. Lounge 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Laidback, lunchtime talks with various speakers who relate their cultural experiences with you. These are 
not lectures but rather relaxed open dialogues. 
n Q p n Q $'' t $ C n A e ¢tea t t $ ....... t t ........... ....., $$.., $ t ... $ .. 
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED I Monday, September 30 Professor Igor Grazin -rhe Soviet Union" Tuesday, October 1 Professor Michael Brownstein "Understanding Japan" Wednesday, October 2 Professor John Kennedy "The American Illusion of Ireland" Thursday, October 3 Professor Sharon O'Brien "The Rights of Indigenous Peoples• Friday, October 4 Professor Everett Percival Open Discussion 


Thursday, October 3, 1991 The Observer page 1 7 
Big 1 0 coaches don't agree on new juco rule 
Nards c-omplciirlof tam~perirlQ with Lindros 
(AP)-The Big Ten's new rule "It's been the big, big game limiting the use of junior in our conference," said college transfers has received Michigan's Gary Moeller, mixed reviews from the whose Wolverines lost a 24-23 conference's football coaches. squeaker at home to Iowa a 
Some coaches think the year ago. "We're always had league's requirement that hard-fought games at Iowa such recruits sit out a year City and Ann Arbor." before playing puts teams Hawkeyes coach Hayden 
from the Big Ten at a distinct Fry said if recent years is any 
disadvantage against indication, Saturday's game at .nonconference opponents. Iowa should be a Lulu. 
"We always try to be on an "They have been extremely island and we are again trying well played, with few touch­to put ourselves on an island. downs, good tackling, great What we are saying is: 'Forget play~ .. goal-line stands. last­the junior college transfers in minute field goals to the Big Ten,"' Michigan State's determine which teams wins, George Perles said during extremely exciting games," Tuesday's weekly teleconfer­said Fry. ence of Big Ten coaches. In another conference 
But Illinois' John Mackovic opener Saturday, a battle of 3­thinks the NCAA soon will 0's Wisconsin and Ohio State adopt the same rule for the will be played at Columbus, entire country. Ohio. 
"The NCAA will probably "Being 3-0 is uplifting for put everybody on the same the young players. It gives page on junior college them confidence," said Barry recruitment," he said. Alvarez, whose Badgers 
The Big Ten opens finished 1-10 last season. conference play Saturday and "Mentally we're in great the feature game is Michigan shape going into the Big Ten (2-1) at Iowa (3-0). season." 
QUEBEC (AP) -The Quebec Nordiques still own the rights to Eric Lindros, and they say someone's been tampering with him. 
Nordiques president Marcel Aubut met with NHL president John Ziegler and a group of governors in New York on Tuesdav, and a team spokesrilan said he lodged a complaint over tampering with Lindros, the top pick in June's entry draft. 
"Mr. Aubut met with some governors and the specific rea­son was tampering." spokesman Jean Martineau said. "We are going to let the league judge the situation and we will make no further com­ment on it." 
An NHL spokesman said it was league policy not to com­ment on cases of tampering. 
The Nordiques are running out of time to deal with Lindros, who has refused to sign and has said he won't play in Quebec. If Lindros is not signed to an NHL contract by midnight tonight, he 'II be forced to spend the season with his junior team, the Oshawa GenP.r1.ls. 
The Nordiques have said as many as six teams had tam­pered with Lindros by contact­ing his family or his agent, Rick Curran. 
The Nordiques have rejected Lindros' demand to be traded to a team in a larger market with greater endorsement pos­sibilities. Lindros has vowed to play two more years of junior hockey until he is eligible to re­enter the NHL draft. 
Neither side has shown signs of backing down. 
General manager Pierre Page said this week the Lindros fam­ily had even given him names of players that Quebec could get in exchange for the 18-year-old center regarded as the NHL's next superstar. 
There was no apparent movement in the standoff be­tween the Nordiques and Lin­dros on Tuesday. Page was in Quebec but could not be reached for comment. It was not known if any last-minute deals were being made before the deadline. 
Ed Chynoweth, director of the Canadian Hockey League ­which governs Canada's major junior hockey leagues -indi­cated on Monday that his orga­nization would excuse Lindros from its signing deadline agreement with the NHL and allow him to sign after Oct. 2. 
The Nordiques, who still hope Lindros will change his mind and sign before the deadline, have argued that the agreement is part of league rules and does 
,

not allow for exceptions. 
Jays 

continued from page 20 
in left field until Candy Maldon­ado arrived in August, third baseman Kelly Gruber missed most of the first half with a painful right hand, and the bat­ting average of John Olerud ­McGriff's replacement at first base -was .203 in mid-June. 
But Olerud got hot in the sec­ond half and became a major contributor to the offense along with Carter, Alomar and Devon White. White's defense in center field has also been top notch. 
The starting rotation lost ace Dave Stieb in the first half, but Gillick went out and obtained knuckleballer Tom Candiotti from the Indians. The key to the Blue Jays' survival, however, has been rookie Juan Guzman (10-2) . 
Toronto's bullpen of Tom Henke, Duane Ward and Mike Timlin was virtually unbeatable in the first half. But overwork and injuries left the pen yulner­able in August and September. 
Henke has 32 saves in 35 chances-a .914 percentage­but hasn't pitched since Sept. 17 because of tendinitis in his right shoulder. Three cortisone shots have helped, but he still can't say he's optimistic. 
Ward leads all AL relievers in games, innings and strikeouts. He also has 21 saves. 
"The whole season has been ups and downs, a roller-coaster ride," Gruber said. "We've been well-trained to stay in that middle ground. We've tried to stay as clam as possible." 
.....~~e. ND-SMC ~·-...~~ STUDENTS
fll~••~  19th Annual Program  
~~  ROME  
~ LONDON  June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  

Scotland, and France Switzerland Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
MEETING Monday Oct. 7 

6:15 pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza **Past student and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
Start Your Career With Abbott. And Discover ANew Range Of Options. 
FINANCIAL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
Graduate into vital real world challenges, with the Abbott. laboratories Financial Develop:nent Program. From day onel Y.QU'II make meaningt_ul. ~tributions as you aed po iSh to your professional skills. 
If you will be graduating with an MBA or a Bachelor's degree 1n Finance or Accounting, and you have a strong academic background ana excellent interJ>ersonal skills, join us as we continue our growth. Please attena our presentation: 
We Will Be Presenting On Campus: 
Date: Thursday 10/3 Tine: 7:00~ Place: Center for Cootinuing Education 
We Will Be Recruiting On Campus: 
Friday 10/4 
Contact the Placement OffiCe ror details. 
Over one hundred years ofqualty healthcare worldwide. 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
~ ,....,.., 
=--==­

Please join your 
appy "21st" JIM MARRONE! 
U'eu~tkr.t 
tpUeu S71il 
~eM 4Uiefde ~ Ut, 
tqel 
With love and pride, Mom & Guatemalan 


11THE DEFINITIVE 
Imports
CYRANO••• 
•Vests
MIRACULOUS!' 
-Vincent Canby 

•Shirts 
NEW YORK TIMES 
·Hooded Bajas 
•Fanny Packs
IIGLORIOUS!' 
-Richard Schkkel, TIME 
•Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats,
~CROWD PLEASER.. 
belts, purses, barrettes 
SUMPTUOUS, ROUSING~' 
-David Ansen, NEWSWEEK & headbands. 
Traditional Indian Clothing & much, much more! Saint Mary's College 
Sept 30 -Oct 4 10am-Spm
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Located in front of
Cinema at the Snlte 
Haggar

Friday and Saturday 7:00,9:45. 
_flain Place: Haggar Game Room 

-




Green Bay is in need of some Majik as their starting QB is doubtful for Sun.day 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1991 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) ­The NCAA has launched an in­vestigation of allegations that a former Auburn football player received illegal payments and other benefits from coaches and alumni. 
NCAA investigators were at the school on Tuesday, accord­ing to a source who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The university has launched its own probe of a newspaper report last week in which Eric Ramsey, a defensive back at Auburn from 1987-90, claimed he received payments and an unsecured bank loan in viola­jkowski can't play against the Cowboys, Blair Kiel, not Mike Tomczak, will start. 
"Based on what Blair did Sunday, it would be kind of foolhardy to do anything else," said Infante. Kiel completed 11 of 15 passes for 149 yards and two touchdowns Sunday, as he led a comeback that fell short in the 23-21 loss. 
Listed as questionable for the Cowboys game is left tackle Ken Ruettgers, who injured a hamstring Sept. 20 and hasn't practiced since. 
If Ruettgers does not play, Billy Ard will get his second consecutive start at left tackle, Infante said. 
Ard missed practice Wednes­day because of a torn ligament in his left thumb suffered in the Rams game. 
"He'll have to wear a cast for the rest of the week and then they'll splint it for the game," 
tion of NCAA rules. He also said 
··he had tapes of secretly recorded conversations to sup­port his allegations. Uni-versity officials have de­clined to discuss the case, citing a policy which prevents any school employee from com­menting on an ongoing investi­gation. NCAA officials have cited a similar rule in refusing comment specifically on the Auburn case. Jim Marchiony, an NCAA spokesman, did say Wednesday that a school found guilty of a "major violation," such as pay­ing players, could face a mini-_ 

Infante said. "He should be able to practice this week and play." 
In California, linebacker Tim Harris, whose holdout ended this week with his trade by the Packers to the San Francisco 49ers, told reporters his ex­horting of fans and his trade­mark gesture -shooting imaginary six-shooters after sacking a quarterback-were prompted by Packer manage­ment. 
"When I was in Green Bay, I was told to perform a certain way and play a certain way to enthuse a lot of people," he said. "I don't think that's nec­essary here. I left my guns in Green Bay ... along with the hay and silos and the cows. 
"I don't mean just like tone myself down and be a clone out there. I am not saying I am go­ing to tone down any emotions. I am still going to be the same emotional guy." 
mum of two years' probation­including a one-year prohibition on expense-paid visits by recruits, off-campus recruiting by coaches and live television appearances. 
Those penalties would severely hamper Auburn's foot­ball program, one of the strongest in the SEC and a reg­ular on network and cable TV. The Tigers, who won or shared the SEC crown three straight years between 1987 and 1989, were on national television six times last season, including a bowl game, and have been on twice in four games this season. 
SPOA1S BRIEFS 

•The 
Observer accepts sportsbriefs in writing every day until 5:00 p.m. Please submit your brief, your name, and the date the brief is to be run. 

•Public 
skating is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 

•Saint 
Mary's varsity tennis team will begin tryouts Sunday, October 6 from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic facility. 

•Ski 
team /club will hold its second meeting tonight at 


8:30 in 118 Nieuwland. A $100 deposit will be taken from the first 90 people. Bring your checkbook. Questions, call Chris or Bob at 277-7089. 
•ND 
Hockey is looking for a keyboard players who would like to play during the game or pre-record songs for the upcoming hockey season. Interested? Call Coach Schafer at 239-5050. • 

•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654-8345. 

•SMC 
Varsity Track meeting for all interested participants will be Wednesday, October 9 at 8 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 


Marchiony, however, stressed that the NCAA Committee on Infractions does have the lee­way to impose lesser sanctions "if a case is unique." 
"That could mean any num­ber of things, usually how quickly a university detected the violations, what they did to correct the violations and what they did to ensure similar viola­tions don't happen in the fu­ture," he said. "The committee has some latitude there." 
Auburn president James Martin has said the results of the school's investigation will be turned over to the NCAA and the Southeastern Conference. 
The NCAA has started the preliminary stage of its probe. If evidence of wrongdoing is found, Auburn would receive an official letter of inquiry detail­ing the charges. 
At th~t time, the school would have up to 90 days to respond before· a hearing with the infractions committee, a six­member panel comprised of administrators from universities and conferences. The committee hears evidence from the NCAA enforcement staff and the school before rendering its decision. 

.j 
;~ r 
• ! 
j 
j 
l 
l ! 
I 
\ 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) -The Green Bay Packers practiced without starting quarterback Don Majkowski on Wednesday and listed him as doubtful for Sunday's game with Dallas. 
Majkowski had to leave last Sunday's game with the Los Angeles Rams with a bruised left (non-throwing) shoulder he sustained when he ran for a touchdown but landed on the dirt infield portion of the end zone at Anaheim Stadium. 
Coach Lindy Infante said fur­ther tests Wednesday didn't change the diagnosis of a bruised shoulder. 
"There is a little bit more pain ... than we would have liked to have seen but we still don't think it's anything significant, meaning a long-term thing," he said. 
Infante said he is sticking with the plan he announced after Sunday's game: if Ma-

Auburn faces cin NCAA investigation of payments 

DOMINO'S PIZZA APPRECITATES YOUR BUSINESS N.D./S.M.C. SO WE ARE OFFERING YOU THIS INCREDIBLE DEAL DON'T MISS OUT! CALL NOW! 
THIS WEEK ONLY I.ARGE PIZZA ONLY $3. 99 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS ONLY 95¢ EACH (At this price you can load it up!) 
WE HAVE EXTENDED OUR HOURS TO INCLUDE LUNCH!! SUN-THU 11am-2am FRI-SAT 11am-3am 
-----------
-----------~I 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
271-0300 289-0033
CHEESE SPECIAL LUNCH FOR ONE I 
$3.99

$3.99 I . I 
Get a large cheese pizza Get a small one topper 
I

1 for only $3.99. Additional 1 and one serving of Coke NOBODY
I

1 toppings are only 95e each.l for only $3.99.(11am-3pm) 
I KNOWS
I OFFER EXPIRES: 10/6/91 I OFFER EXPIRES: 10/6/91 
I I LIKE 
I DOMINO'S.
I 

tb.vYou Like Pizza At Home.
~~ -•u-..-~:._ ___~._o,o,_ .i -·--~:----~"-·~'­
,.. "~ ...... llllllttllllf """""'11!1\..._.,,....,..\lit""""" II• I"'J ~ ~ I
~~ DM ~ '""'M lllllltllllf 11!1\ .........,..,~ ..-.~I ~ "'"'CCI ....,.. ... •--·lu< cl•~ Cl''"f ..,, 11\,.. 11000 fJvt ,...., "'"CCI .,...lltlftl.., 'Iff~...,
l)uo 1._" .,..., 'f1, ...... SC'QOO 011• "'~ 

·-----------------------t 


Thursday, October 3, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'NN-IT TO (:I:J S~l\l~KI\'l~ S?tliJ~K\~G ~ -rna<£ ~i ~N.'I CA\ItS ~~\)~ERE.! 
JAY·HQSLER

THE FAR SIDE • GARY LAR 
W£ WANTED in I(Now Wlf'f MONK'5 CAMRJS 
VISIBILITY IS So LPW 
IN COMPAI?ISON TO fA Hi£F~ H£SBUI76H!s". 
I Mf.AN, He:'~ aJR 
RE'51D£NT 1r·s roO FOR MORALE: SE.E. tf tf"'t 
OC[A $6/"NitU..'{. 


ACROSS 22 Snuggles 46 Throb painfully 24 Venetian's 47 Spaces
1 Sounds from 
neighbor 48DieS­

Santa 27 Punishes a 49 Royal symbol 
s Valley schoolboy 52 First mobster's 
9 Health resort 
28 Excuse reply

12 One of a Latin 
56 Compass 
29 Rani's robe 

trio 
points
30 Mimic

13 Mr.--. 
57 Lock of hair 

m1nstrel 33 Second 
58 Tardy 

endman mobster's 
59 Clam. at times:
query

14 Frau·s 
Abbr. 

counterpart 37 Gel 
60 Italian noble 

15 Mobster's cry 1n 38 Optimistic 
familya gunfight 
39 Bellini opera 61 Took a jet 18 Daughter's sib 
40 Strike 19 U.S. author 
42 Hones a 
DOWN

James 
straightedge 20 Take the stump 1 Reaps alfalfa 
43 Allah is their 21 One of a pa1r God 2 Melville novel 3 Actress Goldie 4 Baseball great lNSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Dean 6 Heavenly being, to Henri 7 Zodiacal sign Bid follower 9 Flower part 10 Talk foolishly -=+-+--f 11 Van Gogh painted here -=+=+-:~:+=::=-~ 13 Commence ..;:.t.~~~ 14 Livestock groups 16 Fiftieth state ~~~ 17 Fashion 
..:.:.+:=+-=-~ 21 Bath fixtures ~~~ 22Tote ~..=..L::..:..L::..J 23 One 



Thursday 
12:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Culture on the Quad. Japanese Club. Field House Mall. 
4 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Black History Through Memorabilia Exhibit. Theodore's, LaFortune Student Center. 
4:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Entertainment. Troop ND. Field House Mall. 
7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for any BBA senior interested in discovering career opportunities with the Federal Reserve Bank. Room 202, Center for Continuing Education. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Lean on Me." Cushing Auditorium. 
8:30p.m. Presentation/Reception for all BBA and MBA students interested in discovering career opportunities with Pittsburgh National Bank. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 

2:15 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. Sing to Me 0 Muse, Traditions in Paradigmatic Architectural Education, Lecture, AncienVEarly
H 

Renaissance." Ingrid D. Rowland, University of Chicago. Room 207, Architecture Building. 4 p.m. Lecture, "Cultural Politics of Candomble, Race, and Nationalism in Brazil," Leni M. Silverstein, Dept. of Anthropology. 
24 Shoulder 34 Remove excess 46 Hit the deck enhancers Room C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies.
35 Song of praise 48 "-aKick Out 
25 S. African lily of You" 4:30 p.m. Sing to Me 0 Muse, Traditions in Paradigmatic
36"She-a 

Architectural Education, Discussion. Room 207, Architecture · 
26 Eat sparingly Yellow Ribbon" 49 October birthstone Building.
27 Effect's • 40 Parts of beds 

beginning so Assess 
41 Fit neatly 

29 Injections 51 Exploded, as a 
MENU
42 Sings like tire30 Hair style Fitzgerald 53 Nice summer31 Gas-station 

43 Lions· prides Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
fixture 54 Correspond­44 Praying figure ence abbr.
32 Greek mil. group ofWW.II 45 Drain 55 Nixie or pixie 
Chicken Acropolis Roast Pork Loin Meat Ravioli Swedish Meatballs Vegetable Lo Mein Cheese Enchiladas 1 Deli Bar Deli Bar 

Backdraft
Come see Lean on Me Thursday October 3rd Friday Oct. 4th 
7:30 and 10:30 P.M.
8:00 and 10:30 P.M. Cushing Auditorium Saturday Oct. 5th $2.00 for Admission Cushing Auditorium 
~ $2.00 for Admission Also don't miss Joe Clark 
•· 

"Fight One More Round" (The ·man who Lean on Me was based on.) Coming to Stepan Center October 1Oth Tickets at Lafortune Info Desk 

STUDENT UNION BOARD
$3.00 for Students I $5.00 for Non-Students 
t 



Sports 
page 20 Thursday, October 3, 1991 
Volleyball team will face top-ranked Stanford 
Notre Dame part of a loaded four-team tournament 
I 
By RENE FERRAN and San Jose State ( 4-4) loom "Realistically, they're a better Associate Sports Editor large. · team than we are," Brown ) "Because all the teams are noted. "But I anticipate they're Miami was the frying dish. real strong, the key for us is not going to take us real seri­The Notre Dame volleyball that we're going to need every­ously, and that's a bit to our 
team hopes Stanford isn't the one to have good matches," advantage." 
j 
{, fire. Brown said. "We can't afford to In the other half of the The Irish head to Palo Alto for have one or two people be off bracket, New Mexico's record is the Stanford Invitational tonight even a little. With some op­deceiving. The Lobos have and tomorrow looking to ponents, you can afford to do faced seven ranked opponents, rebound from its fourth-place that-the team will cover up for compiling a 4-3 mark in those finish at the Miami (Ohio) them-but not this weekend. matches. Their dominant hitter tournament last weekend. "Stanford is a very good team, is Pauline Manser. who leads 
Notre Dame has lost three of very consistent, but anything the team in kills (179). its last four matches, dropping can happen. If we go in there "New Mexico has a balanced. its record to 7-4 on the season. and play hard and put some team." Brown said. "They're During this stretch, it seemed pressure on them, you never very experienced, playing some as if half the team was suffering know." good competition throughout from various illnesses. Other What is known is the strength the year and picking up some 
factors, however, also of the Stanford roster. significant wins." contributed to the mini-slump. Three starters-seniors Amy San Jose State, on the other 
"We need to serve and pass a Cooper and Kristin Klein, and hand, has had an up-and-down little better than we have," said junior Bev Oden-were mem­season. The Spartans were Irish coach Debbie Brown of the bers of the Pan American team ranked in the pre-season top 20 team's recent blues. "We've in Havana last August. Klein, and won the Golden Bear Clas­improved our hitting and the Cardinal captain, is a two­sic early in the year, but three blocking, but we have the capa­time NCAA All-American, while consecutive losses to ranked bility of being a much better Oden was named the NCAA's teams have brought their serving team." Division I Player of the Year for record down to the . 500 mark. 
The Irish couldn't have picked 1990. "I would liken San Jose State a worse time to go into a Stanford has not been seri­to ourselves in that they've downswing. The host Cardinal ously tested this season, having been a little inconsistent," 
(10-0)-Notre Dame's Thursday been pushed to a fourth game Brown said. night opponent-are ranked only three times all season. Ob­San Jose is a young team, number one in the country, and viously then, the Irish have with only two seniors on the in the other half of the draw, their work cut out for them just Marilyn Cragin and the Irish are gearing up for a match with no. 1 
see STANFORD/page15

11th-ranked New Mexico (6-4) to stay in the match tonight. ranked Stanford. 
Women's soccer keeps unbeaten streak alive with 4-1 win vs. Lewis 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Porter, who leads the team with from JoAnne Plansky and put a Sports Writer nine goals. scored the first shot past freshman goalkeeper Notre Dame goal on a shot from Kim Gold from 12 yards out. 
In a rain-shortened contest, five yards out. She added ·Lester concluded the scoring the Notre Dame women's soccer another one with 3:37 remain­amidst the raindrops when she team defeated the Lewis Flyers, ing in the first half. took a pass from DPnise Chabot 4-1. The win increased the Irish "It wasn't that hard to get up and scored three and a half winning streak to four and their for this game because of what minutes into the second half. record to 6-0-2. happened against Siena Heights "We are playing well now, but 
The rain started two minutes (a game in which Notre Dame not as well as we were in 
into the second half with the made some early mistakes, but Cincinnati {where the Irish de­Irish leading 3-1. However, the won, 11-2). We didn't want to feated Cincinnati, 4-0 and tied referee allowed play to continue make the same mistakes Vanderbilt, 3-3)." Porter said. until 29:07 mark, when he again," Porter said. "We wanted The Irish will look to return to halted play due to hazardous to play hard and have fun." that level of play and continue thunder and lightining. Tri-captain Susie Zilvitis also their undefeated season when 
The teams and referee waited scored a first half goal for the ·they conclude their five-game for the weather to improve for Irish, when she received a nice homestand tomorrow afternoon approximately an hour before cross from Alison Lester and against Southern Illinois­the decision was made to call put it in from in front. Edwardsville at Alumni Field at the game. The Flyers did not go into the 4 p.m. Then they will travel to TheObserver I E. G. Bailey The Irish controlled the ma­intermission empty handed. Milwaukee to take on jority of the game. Ten minutes With 3:26 remaining in the half, Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Sun­
Notre Dame's Jodi Hartwig wins the race to the ball in yesterday's Irish win over Lewis College. into the contest, Stephanie Laurie Anderson took a pass day at 1 p.m. 


1 
l 
J 
! I I 
! 
l 
I 
Toronto clinches A.L. East with comeback victory 
TORONTO (AP)-After several 
failures coming down the 
stretch in recent years, the 
Toronto Blue Jays really don't 
care what's said about them. 
This season, they're the 
champions of the American 
League East. 
They made it official 
Wednesday night with a 6-5 
victory over California at a 
soldout SkyDome. 
The Blue Jays were rolling along in July with an eight­game lead. And, the margin still was six in August. But a seven-game losing streak · brought Toronto back to the pack and into a race with 
Boston and Detroit. 
It wasn't exactly a case of the 
Blue Jays grabbing control of 
the division, but rather the 
Tigers and Red Sox collapsing 
in September. What looked 
liked an interesting final week 
turned rather dull when 
Boston lost three of four at 
Milwaukee last weekend. 
To complicate matters for the 
Blue Jays, manager Cito Gaston missed 33 games with a disc injury. During Gaston's absence, interim manager Gene Tenace guided the dub to a 19-14 record and maintained a 2 1/2-game lead. 
"Gene did an excellent job," Blue Jays general manager Pat Gillick said. "But Cito has been here a long time and sometimes I think he's got a sixth sense." 
He also has two division title. When Gaston took over for the fired Jimy Williams in early 1989, he wasn't sure he wanted the job. And after Toronto's division-winning '89 season, Gaston was pretty sure he didn't want to stay on as manager when Oakland prevailed in the playoffs. 
But he did stay on, managing the Jays to a disappointing sec­ond-place finish last season. After missing 33 games, Gaston decided managing is a wonderful life. 
"Maybe three years ago. 
when I didn't want to take the job, it would have been time to leave," said Gaston, who re­turned to the dugout Friday. "I like the job. Every day's a chal­lenge. You really satisfy your­self when you can get some of the problems." 
The major change in the Blue Jays this season came when Gillick made an uncharacteristic blockbuster trade last December, sending Fred McGriff and Tony Fernandez to San Diego for Joe Carter and Roberto Alomar. 
Carter leads the Blue Jays with 33 homers and 108 RBis and Alomar is batting near . 300 with 41 doubles. Alomar's defense at second base has also been outstanding and he has 53 steals. 
"When I first got here, I knew we had a real good team," Alomar said. "We had the three things you need to win -defense, pitching and· good hitting. We don't have a lot of power. but we know how to play the game." 

Carter hasn't missed a game, played above-average defense and brought a feeling of har­mony into a clubhouse that suffered in the past from George Bell's tirades and Fernandez's moodiness. 
"Driving in 100 is definitely a milestone," said Carter. whose 33 homers are two shy of his career high. "But it's more than just that. It's usually go­ing to win a lot of ballgames for a team." 
He's driven in 100 runs in five of the last six seasons, getting 98 for Cleveland in 1988. Carter had 105 RBis in 1989 in his final season as an Indian and drove in 115 runs with the Padres last year. Carter is the first player in major-league history to reach 100 RBis in three consecutive seasons with three different teams. 
· Toronto lacked a reliable bat 
see JAYS/page 17 
Two guards verbally commit to Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Two high school guards have made verbal commitments to sign with Notre Dame, becoming the first basketball players re­cruited by the Irish under coach John MacLeod, according to a published report. 
Keith Kurowski, of Lincroft. 
N.J .. and Ryan Hoover, of Rockton, Ill.. both 6-foot-2, are expected to sign national letters of intent Nov. 13, the South Bend Tribune reported Wednesday. 
Kurowski averaged 17 points last season for Christian Brothers Academy. "The bigger the game, the better he plays," said coach Ed Wicelinski. 
Hoover averaged 19.9 points last season for Hononegah High School. "He's extremely strong and is very unselfish," said coach Craig Callahan. 

i t 
I' 



